

THE BULLETIN
CHRISTMAS NUMBER, with Coloured Supplement.
Vol. 1.—No. 32.—New Series
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 22, 1883.
Price —6d.
GHOSTLY GOLD.
A Christmas Tale of Mystic Money.
Two bells! Ding, dong, from the poop;
dong, dong, from the forecastle. And float-
ing over the moonlit waters, there are
carried to the good ship Crofton Castle, as
she lies at anchor in the harbour of Port
Phillip, sounds of the bells of other ships as
they strike the dog watches. Feeble sounds,
to be sure, like goblin tinkles, and the more
deadened because of the muffled hum of the
busy life on shore, which, in the tropic still-
ness of the night, surges in a mighty drone
over the harbour.
A lovely night, truly. The moon, a gleam-
ing crescent, sailing through patch after
patch of gauzy, transparent cloudlets, and
gleaming down upon the scarcely moving
ocean with a sublime radiance that turns it
into a sea of silver. The stars are out in
their myriads, grouped in every design the
mind of man can fancy; forming every
picture a poet’s brain could dream of. And
distant but a little way are the lights of
Williamstown, and the blurred red glare of
the great city, as its breath floats up in the
fiery clouds to the tranquil heavens.
The Orofton Castle is a full-rigged ship of
It thousand tons, and she makes a brave show
as she lies there with the spars and gear
dividing the sky into patches, and her sym-
metrical hull blotting out, for its whole
length, the summer glow of the moon upon
the waters. Upon the forecastle of the
vessel, a number of the crew are engaged in
earnest conversation, while others appear
to be intently watching the progress of a
small wherry, which is rapidly approaching
the shore. Upon the poop, in a couple of
long American lounges, are two recumbent
figures. Both are smoking, apparently with
a deep sense of enjoyment, for not a word is
uttered for some time, the ends of the cigars
glowing a ruby red, and the smokers gazing
intently at the stars. At length, the one
nearer the binnacle, a tall pleasant looking
young fellow of about 26, shook himself into
a sitting position, and, after a hearty yawn,
said—
“Two bells ! What’s that ?”
“Seven,” replied the other, knocking the
ash off his cigar.
“ Thank you, Captain,” With a laugh.
“What makes you merry?” enquired the
other, a stout, good-humoured man, with a
t hick curly brown beard. And he rose up
and stretched himself.
“ Fancy you being captain of a ship!”
“ Fancy you being sub-editor of a news-
paper.”
There was a pause here, during which the
two nvm looked smilingly at on» another
Stidov the journalist, and
William Moriey, the ship’s captain, had been
schoolmates together in the old country, and
had parted a good twelve years back; and
they had only encountered one another in a
Melbourne newspaper office, on the day
before the interview that is being chronicled.
“The world is full of surprises,” said
Stanley, “as full as ”
“A toy shop,” put in the captain.
“ Or a woman,” ejaculated the other.
“Talking of women,” said Moriey, “I
wonder a good looking fellow like you has
not carried off a Melbourne belle in all
these years. A Melbourne belle, with say—
£50,000.”
“ Have you seen any Melbourne belles with
£50,000?” enquired the other, lazily.
“Well, no; I haven’t.”
“Ah, that accounts for it,” returned
Stanley. “ Perhaps if you had, old boy, you
wouldn’t wonder.”
“ But surely— ”
“Surely I’ve fallen in love, I suppose you
mean. Of course I have. Have you ?”
“ Slightly,” said Moriey, with a laugh.
“Some ephemeral fancy, I suppose, you
gay sailor. What did it end in?—giving a
diamond bracelet one day, and being cut out
by a weak-kneed tenor the next. I under-
stand that sort of thing.”
“No, dear boy,” said Captain Moriey; “it
didn’t quite end in that.”
“What then?”
“ A wife and four children.”
“Let me congratulate you but perhaps
vou’d rather not.”
“Felicitate me as much as you please,”
said the captain, laughing. “I may tell
you,” he added, “that nay wife and family
are staying with my father at his place in
the Isle of Wight.”
“ Is that why you want to be congratu-
lated?” asked the other, laughing.
“No, indeed,” replied the captain, seri-
ously; “I only wish Emily and the bairns
were with me. But about yourself. You
have fallen in love, you say. Well, she is
beautiful, of course.”
“ She is beautiful, dear William, but not of
course.”
“And is well off, I’ll wager a tenner.”
“ And I’ll take you—but you can owe me
the money. No ; sir, she is very low down
on the ladder of fortune. Guess what she
is.”
“What!—I’ve heard of young fellows
doing silly things out here —not an actress,
nor —a barmaid.”
“You seem to have forgotten that I said
she was poor,” said Stanley, drily.
“Well, then, enlighten me.”
“She is,” said the journalist, sending the
bntt of his cigar hurling through the air, and
waiting until it fell with a hiss in the water
“she is—like myself—an orphan. Her walk
In life is that of a governess. She is in a
situation in Sydney now, at the house of a
merchant; and, in addition to teaching his
three children, she has to tend his invalid
wife. Just like her luck, poor girl. When
she first took the situation, the woman was
“TWO BELLS!”


well enough, but of late however, the
rigmarole won’t interest you. Besides, I’ll
have to be off. I’m due at my office at half-
past eight."
“Stay a moment, old man,” said the kind-
hearted skipper. “Why don’t you marry
her, and release her from this life of
servitude ? Surely your income is—besides,
so far as a few hundreds go, for a start in
housekeeping, I .”
He stopped suddenly, because, on looking
at his companion, he observed that his face
was troubled, and that Ms eyes were
vacantly gazing upon the moonlit waters.
There was a silence of a few moments,
broken only by the lap of the tide against
the vessel’s side. Suddenly Stanley walked
up to his friend, and placing a hand upon
his shoulder, said—
“Morley, I will tell you now, what I have
never told to living man. Within the last
few months, a mystery has seemed to come
upon Hester Manton’s life —and a cloud has
descended upon my own."
“Does she love you no longer, then?’’
asked the captain.
“ Passionately—so her letters say—but she
delays our marriage on every conceivable
pretext. And more than this, she urges me,
on no account, to go to Sydney and see her.
She writes, seemingly, in a troubled spirit,
but there is a something, I. feel, that has
come between us.”
“And you are very fond of this girl?”
asked the captain, thoughtfully.
“I am very fond of her,” was the quiet
reply.
“Well, listen, I am going with my ship to
Sydney in a day or two—perhaps to-morrow.
I am to dock, and take in cargo there. If
you have sufficient confidence in me to give
me her address I will call upon her, and
endeavour to solve the mystery."
“ Do so by all means,” said Stanley, wring-
ing his friend’s hand; “and heaven send
your news may be good news.” And writing
hastily in his note-book, he tore out the page
and handed it to the captain. It read as
follows:—
“ MISS HESTER M ANTON,
“ Cax'e of Paul Blumenthal, Esq.,
“ The Range,
“ Darling Point, Sydney.”
“I must be off, now,” said Stanley—“I
shall be late as it is ?”
“ All right,” said the captain. Then to his
first mate—“ Man the gig, there, please, Mr.
Simpson.”
“ Aye, aye, sir,” replied the officer. After
giving the necessary instructions, he came
aft on xhe poop, and in a half whisper to
Captain Morley, said —“I’m afraid three
more of the hands have given us the slip
to-night, sir.”
“You don’t mean that!” exclaimed the
captain.
“ It’s a fact. There’s Bill, in my watch;
and the nigger and that Swede fellow, Hans,
in the second mate’s. It’s a bad job, sir.”
“Well, show a light for the police boat.
Are there no men to be had here ?”
“ None any good, sir.”
“Well, we must try what we can do in
Sydney. Ready, there, with the boat?”
“All ready, sir.”
And in another moment Stanley Cartright }
was being whirled in the direction of the
Williamstown pier, by the united exertions
of four strong arms.
A month had passed, and it was now
within three days of Christmas. During
those four weeks Stanley Cartright’s cause
for anxiety had increased. He had received
but two letters from Hester Manton, both
of which were couched in terms which at
once mortified and pained him. Unbounded
affection was expressed in each epistle, but
all mention of their future marriage or
speedy meeting was studiously avoided.
Another curious feature about Hester
Manton’s communications was that the
handwriting of the letters at their com-
mencement would be regular, and the style
calm and affectionate; but after a few lines,
the caligraphy would become straggling,
blurred and uneven, and the subject-matter
morbid and disjointed in expression. The
last letter concluded as follows: —
“ Believe, always believe, dearest Stanley, that
to you my heart belongs. Bid 1 feel myself to be
a free agent, I would say more—would hope for
the joy we have both for so long dreamed of. But
I am not. There is a nameless cloud eternally
hovering over the sunshine of my life. Think the
best you can of me, dear, and believe .”
Here it broke off abruptly—even the
signature being missing.
The captain’s mission had not prospered.
He had made one call, in accordance with
his promise to Stanley, but on that occasion
the young lady was denied to him—whether
purposely or not he had been unable to
gather. A letter from him to her had failed
to elicit a reply; and just as he was about to
pursue the campaign more vigorously, he
was seized with an alarming illness, which,
up to the present time, had confined him to
his hotel. As Stanley walked up Collins-
street, towards his office, pondering over
these things, he felt very weary. He paused
at the intersections of the streets, looked to
right and to the left, and saw happy
faces, heard merry voices. The very beggar
that mumbled hia greasy crust at the street
comer could in spite of his rags and his
squalor, conjure up a grim smile now and
then, as he returned the greeting of another
medicant, or took a penny from a passing
pedestrian. Stanley, always a student of
human nature, was a very close one to-day*
He mentally noted things; then his
thoughts, turning with bitterness upon his
own gloomy lot, he felt almost inclined for
the moment to follow the advice of Job’s
irritable spouse—curse the world and die.
Arrived at his room in the newspaper
office to which he belonged—that room with
its big littered escritoire, its green-shaded
lamps, podgy books of reference, and cluster
of communication pipes—he was about, as
was his wont, to take off his coat, and plunge
into his night’s work, when he noth* -I lying
on the top of a heap of other communica-
tions a telegram addressed to himself. Tear-
ing open the envelope, he uttered an
exclamation. It was from Hester Manton,
and ran as follows :—
“ Come to me at once. I have need of your
presence and protection.”
M At last!” he cried, as he stood beneath
the blazing gas-lamp, with the telegram in
his hand—“ at last I’m to be brought face to
face with the danger that threatens my
life’s happiness. I ask nothing better than
this.”
All that night he was at work, writing,
clipping, altering, and performing, in short,
the hundred and one duties which devolve
upon the journalist; and only when the last
formes were on the machine did he turn out
his gas and step forth into the cold grey of
dawn. Two hours later he was in the mail
train, tearing and shrieking through the
chill morning air, the engine with its varie-
gated lights looking like a demon of dark-
ness escaping before the coming day. On,
with a rush past twinkling suburbs, across
bridges, and through tall cuttings that
loomed gloomily overhead. On, with a
shriek, a rattle, and a roar, leaving ever
behind a demoniac trail of lurid smoke and
red hot ashes. Yet, though the train travel-
led fast, it seemed to be running but at a
snail’s pace to one silent passenger, whose
pale anxious face peered wistfully out from
one of the carriage-windows.
Mr. Paul Blumenthal was a merchant of
Sydney, and his position financially and
socially was of a very sound description.
His offices were in a large and handsome
Pitt-street building, and his business was
reckoned to comprise vast ramifications both
in the shipping line and in the way of local
industries. Mr. Blumenthal was (of course)
a magistrate of the territory, and in addition
to this he was a director of several
on the board of more than one charity, and
connected, in the character of vice-presi-
dent, with a well-known religious paper.
Although Mr. Blumenthal bad many friends,
it could not be said that he was a popular
man. Although he lived in a beautiful
place at Darling Point, he seldom, if ever,
entertained his acquaintances there. Oc-
casionally, it is true, he would invite a
bachelor friend to a tete-a-tete dinner at his
house; but he excused himself from receiv-
ing company in a more general way, on ac-
count of the continued illness of Mrs. Blu-
menthal, who, it was currently rumoured*
was afflicted with an incurable disease.
In appearance, Mr. Biumenthal was some-
what remarkable. His body was short and
spare, and he invariably dressed entirely in
black, wearing, American fashion, one large
diamond in his shirt-front. His face formed
almost a perfect oval, and he wore a quan-
tity of black crisply curling hair. His eyes
were large, and dark, and luminous—eyes
which fixed themselves on whomsoever he
was addressing with a strange intensity of
expression. His features were clearly cut;
but beyond being, perhaps, of a slightly
Oriental cast, were by no means remarkable
for any distinctive trait. With another pair
of eyes, that face would have been unin-
teresting, even common-place; but lit up
with the weird fire of those lustrous orbs, it
became at once a curious physiognomical
study.
But Mr. Paui Biumenthal was remarkable
in more ways than one. He called himself
an Englishman, and spoke the language
with singular purity of expression, and
with a perfect accent. Sometimes, how-
ever, he would make use of an idiom,
which, though it might be unusual in
our tongue, was common enough in both
French and German, and on rare occasions
he would give vent to an exclamation—
either of surprise or displeasure—which was
unmistakably of a foreign nature. He
seemed to speak the principal European
languages with equal facility—was never for
a moment puzzled by his correspondence,
no matter in however many different
tongues the letters were indited. Some
said he was a Polish Jew, others averred that
he was a levanter from New Orleans. Many
averred that his various peculiarities were
“ put on,” and that he was neither more nor
less than an ordinary English speculator.
Upon one point, however, all seemed agreed,
and that was, that no matter what might be
the sect or nationality of Mr. Paul Blumen-
thal, he was a gentleman who could solve
with the utmost readiness the problem of
how many beans of a cerulean hue would
go to form a quintette. And in all this, Mr.
Blumenthal held a considerable social ad-
vantage over the greater number of his
commercial brethren: for while they could
not satisfactorily account for a single month
of his career prior to his commencing busi-
ness in Sydney, he was perfectly conversant
with the antecedents of every one of them.
Mr. Paul Blumenthal sat before his writing-
table in his study at “ The Range,” Darling
Point, early on the morning of the 24th of
December, in the year of our Lord eighteen
hundred and blank. Mr. Blumenthal always
rose early, though whether his reason for
doing so was to be enabled to snatch all the
more time for his prayers, or in order —Time
being money—to get the most he could out
of the twenty-four hours, is a question which
need not be determined here. Suffice it to
say that there he was, seated at seven o’clock
a.m., in a pleasant room overlooking the
landscape garden of his beautiful residence
A number of papers were strewn upon the
desk before him; but his mind by no means
appeared upon business intent, as he gazed
fixedly out of the window, apparently deep
in thought.
“ She’s sinkingfast,” he murmured; “ and
the fool of a doctor —who has said the styne
thing anytime during the last fortnight—
assures me she cannot last out the day. That
is well. The children are away at their
aunt’s. That is well again. And the influence
with Hester increases hourly. Nothing could
be better; nothing could speak plainer for
success. Now, let me see what I have against
me.”
Here, selecting a small key from a bunch
which he took from his pocket, he opened a
drawer, and drew forth from it a letter.
“It was fortunate I secured this,” he said
musingly, toying with the paper the while.
“ It was very fortunate, because it gave me
information which I could not have been
possessed of in such good time, aud by such
easy means. So far. well. 1 gather from
the letter of this Captain Morley (whose
ship, chartered by me, leaves to-morrow)
that there is in Melbourne a scribbler called
Stanley Cartright, with whom she has been
aux petits soins. He wishes to know why
she is changed, and writes to him in a differ-
ent strain ? Humph! She has not summoned
him to her; the captain sails to-morrow—or
to-day—within an hour —if I choose! Bah !
There is nothing against me!”
With this, he took up a pen from a rack on
his writing-table, and began to devote him-
self calmly and methodically to the papers
before him.
Two women together in a large and lofty
bed-room, One is lying propped up by
pillows upon a magnificent inlaid ebony
couch, draped with yellow hangings, the
saffron hue of which only serve to render
the extreme pallor of her hollow cheeks still
more death-like. She is young, hardly thirty,
apparently, and there are yet traces of
beauty lingering in that sad, worn visage.
Her hair —of which she has a profusion—is
flaxen and curling, and the tint of her skin
is peculiarly clear and transparent. So thin
is her face that her eyes are sunk in hollow
black cavities, and her cheek-bones appear
so sharp and well defined that they seem
momentarily threatening to break through
the tightly drawn covering that conceals
them. The hand of Death is upon that
clammy white brow, and upon that wasted
form—Death,not with his horrors of writhing
agonies and nameless torments, but with the
calm sleep of exhaustion which is—and
should ever be—the meed of the sinless.
Seated upon a low chair beside the couch
is a young girl in the full bloom of maidenly
beauty. Her hair is dark and thick and
wavy; her eyes light blue, large, liquid and
bright, and fringed with wonderfully long
silken lashes. Her complexion is faultless,
and her features might have been chiselled
by a Grecian sculptor, so severely classical
are they in their delicate outline. Her
figure is tall aud well developed, being full
of graceful curves, and possessing in every
movement a natural dignity which no pro-
fessor of deportment could impart. She sat,
as has been written, in a low chair beside
the invalid—looking down with gentle
solicitude into the poor white face.
“ Are you a little strou , r this morning ?”
asked the young girl, softly.
“ Hester!” said the dying woman—“ do not
mock me!”
“ I could not do that, dear,” was the gentle
reply.
Mrs. BliimenthaJ retched feebly out for
her companion’s band when those quiet
words were uttered, and motioning her to
approach nearer, said:
“ I have not many hours to live. I can
feel even now the cold chill of the tomb
creeping upon me. My last thoughts are for
my dear children. Be kind to them.”
Hester rose with a start, and cast an
affrighted look in the direction of the
invalid.
“What do you mean?” she asked in a
breathless tone—“their proper guardian
is—.”
“Listen, Hester. From the moment you
came I saw that you had taken my place in
that man’s heart, and that he held you, as
he will hold me, while I am sane, and while
I live, under the influence he possesses over
mortals weaker than himself.”
“What can I do?” exclaimed the girl,
kneeling by the bed, and sobbing. Then,
approaching her face to that of the invalid,
she said : “If I have wronged you I have
done so involuntarily. But, courage; the
dreadful truth, in its full force, only dawned
upon me yesterday. I have summoned one
who will bear me away from this—I .”
“Too late—the work is done,” murmured
Mrs. Blumenthal.
“ Too late,” cried the girl. “ Oh, gracious
heaven! And I have killed you. Forgive
me. And it was only to tend you that .’ ’
“ I know,” said the other faintly. “ It was
your fate. When I am gone, for the chil-
dren’s sake—those poor motherless little
ones!—forget that ever I lived, and when
you marry him ”
“In pity, hush!” cried Hester in a voice
of agony. “You ”
“He took up his wife’s poor light hand.”


Hardly were the words uttered than the
handle of the door was softly turned, and
Mr. Paul Blumenthal was in the room.
He walked silently up to the bed, took up
his wife’s poor light hand, and kissed it.
Then fixing his eyes upon Hester’s face, he
said : “ And now I must ask the good, kind
little nurse for her bulletin this morning.”
She glanced up with her late look of
agonising grief quite faded away. Her brow
was serene and her eyes tranquil in their
expression. Her lips were parted, even
with a half smile.
“Much the same, Mr. Blumenthal, I think,”
she said.
“‘Much the same,’ and she was better
yesterday—then is good news.” And
he stood at the foot of the bed looking at
the two women.
“Come, Emily, you must cheer up,” said
Mr. Blumenthal. “ We must bring her
round, Miss Mauton—eh ?”
“Paul,” said the poor woman, “my fate
has been long decided. A few hours will see
the end of my earthly career. I have lived
for you,” she went on more faintly, “ and I
die for tou ”
“Emily!”
As he uttered the word, neither loudly nor
sharply, but in a tone of quiet surprise, he
moved to the head of the bed, and stood
right over her. She looked up at him
timidly once; then buried her tearful face
in the pillow, and spoke no more.
Mr. Blumenthal waited for a few moments
before again speaking; then he said:
“ Miss Manton—(and looked her straight in
the face)—Mrs. Blumenthal has been exciting
herself this morning. She will be the better
for a rest. May I request, then, your kind
assistance at my frugal breakfast as usual.
Thank you.”
He opened the door softly; allowed her to
pass out, and followed her into the dining-
room. She took the head of the tablelike a
woman in a dream, poured out his tea, and
busied herself with the arrangements of the
breakfast table generally. There were
particular sauces, aud relishes which he
favoured, and these she kept him supplied
with, notwithstanding that he did not make
a single request of any kind. Her eyes
were continually fixed on his face in readi-
ness to interpret its slightest expression, aud
even when he read —or feigned to read—the
newspaper she watched intently until he
should glance up from the journal and again
require her services.
His pretended unconsciousness of the
power beheld over the girl was a very clever
piece of acting. Yet not a glance nor the
slightest movement on her part escaped
him. So wily was he, too, that never had he
up to this time brought his mesmeric power
to bear upou her otherwise than sufficed to
cause her to perform seemingly trifling
things that he wished; but he held, and con-
centrated within himself the power to force
her, when the time should come, to blindly
lend herself to every phase of his lightest
will.
“ Hester Manton,” said he, when he had
discussed his second cup of tea; “ it would
be childish to conceal from ourselves that
poor Emily is dying.”
She merely nodded affirmatively, keeping
her eyes upou her plate, aud plaiting the
table-cloth nervously with her fingers.
“ If I told you,” he went on, “ that I am
sorry she is dying, 1 should be telling an un-
truth, and as (out of business) it is childish
to tell an untruth, 1 avoid doing so. Do you
follow me?” he continued, turning his
chair round, so as to bring himself face to
face with her.
No reply. Only her bosom quickly rising
and falling, and her left hand pressed to her
heart. “ When the proper time comes,
Hester, I shall ask you to be my wife. What
will your answer be ? ”
And seizing her right hand, he drew her
forward until her face was near his, and
until he could see by its expression that he
had charmed her—like a snake charms its
prey—into abject submission. Horrible a*
the man's announcement of his intention to
re-marry, while his wife was on her death-
bed upstairs, must have been to Hester, her
face betrayed no sign, either of emotion or
disgust. She kept the same attitude: her
hand pressed to her left side, and her eyes
cast down upon the cloth.
Just as Mr Blumenthal was about to pur-
sue his subject, a knock came to the room
door. Then Hester raised her eyes for the
first time.
“A gentleman to see Miss Manton, and
Mr. Simpson, of the Crofton Castle, to see
you, sir,” said the servant.
Mr. Blumenthal raised his eyebrows.
“Did Miss Manton’s visitor send up his
name, Parker?” said he to the man.
“Yes, sir; Mr. Stanley Cartxight,” he said.
“ Do you wish to see this gentleman?” he
inquired, looking at Hester.
She had risen from her chair, and now
stood half-way between Blumenthal and
the servant, with her eyes directed towards
the open door. As she did not answer, he
turned to the woman, and exclaimed ner-
vously dallying with a knife upou the table,
“Miss Manton will tell you (when she has
made up her mind) whether or not she will
see this gentleman.”
This was the first false stroke he had
played for many a long day, and he saw hi>
mistake no sooner than the words were
uttered. The influence (always weaker in
the presence of a third party) she had been
able to a certaiu extent to throw off, in the
emotional start the mention of her lover’s
name caused her. She did not speak, how-
ever, but merely nodded affirmatively to
the sert ant.
Seeing this, Blumenthal lost no time in
endeavouring to repair his error.
“Then let Mr. Stanley Cartright come up
here (as perhaps he has not breakfasted), and
show Mr. Simpson into my study,” said he
to the man.
When the door had closed behind the ser-
vant, Blumenthal, addressing himself to
Hester, said pleasantly,
“ It is unfortunate that Mrs. Blumeuthal’s
illness prevents my making the house so
pleasant to your friend as I otherwise could
have done; but we must entertain him as
well as we can. Ah, here he is!”
The door was re-opened, the servant an-
nounced “Mr. Stanley Cartright,” and it
was closed again, leaving him standing just
within the room, with the sun from the open
window streaming in upon him.
He looked from one to the other, was
about to speak, when Hester, with a wild
cry, rushed towards him, and, burying her
head in his breast, cried—“ Stanley, Stanley,
save me!”
“What is the meaning of this, sir?” ex-
claimed Cartright, supporting the gixjl,
who had fainted, to the couch i.ear the win-
dow,
“ it means,” said Blumenthal, smiling,
“that the unremitting attention Miss Man-
ton (who is more than an angel) has lavished
upon my poor wife during her prolonged
sickness has at last commenced to tell upon
her system. She is overwrought.”
“Poorgirl!” murmured Stanley, chafing
the palms of her hands, “ she seems indeed
overdone. Excuse me, sir,” he said, ad-
dressing himself to Blumenthal, and kneel-
ing down beside the sofa to bathe her brow
with water, “but in case you should think
my conduct intrusive, permit me to inform
you that I am Miss Manton’s affianced hus-
band.”
While the words were being spoken, Blu-
menthal kept his eyes on Hester’s face with
a curious expression, in which anxiety, hope
and fear were strangely mingled. He
merely bowed, and with a courtly motion
01 his hand signified to Stanley that he
understood and acknowledged his right to
administer the required restoratives.
After a lapse of a few moments, Hester
opened her large blue eyes. As she did so,
the look upon Blumenthal’s face became
terrible by reason of the suspense depicted
in it. Motionless he stood, and with parted
lips; the beads of perspiration welled out in
lines upon his forehead; he almest ceased to
breathe.
Her first word and look were for her lover.
—“ Stanley! ”
There was only one word—only one glance,
yet Blumenthal staggered back as though he
had been shot. They revealed to him that
which, of all things in the world, he most
dreaded to discover. Stanley Cartriyht pos-
sessed mesmeric a power sufficiently great to
nullify his own.
This was a crushing blow; but his wonder-
ful command of feature stood him in good
stead. “ Well, well,” he said, in a laughing
tone, which, however, the steely glitter of
his eyes belied —“ I think I can do no better
than leave Miss Mantou in the care of such
a good doctor.”
With this, he walked towards the door.
Hardly had he reached it, however, than it
was thrown open by one of the women-
servants, who exclaimed: “ Miss Man ton
Mrs. Blumeuthal has just been taken very
bad. Will you come up, please, Miss?”
Blumenthal gave a sigh of relief,
“ This,” he said in a frank and hearty tone,
*' would be too much to ask of Miss Man ton.
No, no; let the housokeeper stay with Mrs.
Blumenthal until the doctor co nes. I myself
will watch by her directly.”
But Hester’s soft, womanly heart asserted
itself. “ I will go,” she said, rising.
“ Cannot I see you for one moment alone V'
murmured Stanley.
She was about to reply, when a prolonged
shriek reverberated through the house.
This was followed by cries from the stair-
case for ‘‘Miss Manton.”
“ I must go to her,” said Hester ; “ leave
now, Stanley, but return later ”
“ Allow me,” said Blumenthal with a smile,
“ to arrange this little matter. If Mr. Stan-
ley Cartright—whose acquaintance I am
charmed to make, even under the present
melancholy circumstances—will allow Miss
Manton to tend a dying woman during her
last day’s existence on this earth, he will
confer a favour upon me. In a few hours,
Mr. Cartright, Miss Manton’s generous ser-
vices will, alas! no longer be required. If,
therefore, you will leave her until this even-
ing, and return and dine here—with me. if
you will so honour an afflicted fellow-
creature—you and Miss Mat.ton can then
have the whole evening (or, for the matter
of that, as long as you pleass) to exchange
confidences and complete arrangements.”
This suggestion being not only reasonable
but courteous, was adopted by Stanley im-
mediately; and after a hasty leave-taking of
Hester and his host, and promising to return
at six o’clock, he left the house
It was not until fairly on his walk back to
Sydney, when the intoxication of his meet-
ing with Hester had worn off somewhat,
that Stanley called to mind the peculiar cir-
cumstances under which he had been sum-
moned to Sydney. But not then, even when
he coupled to this his extraordinary recep-
tion by Hester, did any direct suspicion of
foul play cross his mind. Mr. Blurnenthal’s
explanation of the matter had been a per-
fectly feasible one; for nothing was more
natural than that strange and even morbid
ideas should emanate from a brain that was
overwrought by continual watching. BIu-
menthal bad, on the whole, made a favour-
able impression upon Stanley Cartright.
Possessing—unconsciously, it is true, but
still possessing—an equal amount of power
with Blumenthal, they met upon equal
terms. Consequently, Stanley was disposed
to consider his host of The Grange rather a
dull fellow than otherwise, and was quHe
ready to sympathise with him in his appa-
rently great domestic affliction. He, there-
fore, walked away towards the city with a
light heart—his only trouble being how to
successfully kill time until he should be
again due at Darling Point.
“ Well, Mr. Simpson,” said Mr. Blumentbal.
as he entered his study; “ and what brings
you up here so early in rhe morning?”
The captain sent me up to say that we’re
so short-handed that he does not expect to
be able to sail to-morrow, sir.”
“ But can’t men be got ? ”
No, that’s just it. We lost four good
hands in Melbourne, and two gave us the
slip while we were in Darling Harbour.”
But, surely, at the Sailor’s Home ”
“ We’ve tried that, and the Shipping Office,
too; but it s Christmas time, and they won’t
ship.”
Humph. This delay involves a serious
loss. Are there no means of getting men ?—
Come! ”
The first mate hesitated.
“Well, sir,” he said, “I daresay they
could be got from some of the boarding
masters—there is Old Shafers, and Jenkins
—Sailor Joe, they call him—who do a lot in
that line—”
“What line? What do you mean ?”
“ Well, sir, ‘ crimping ' is, I suppose, what
you’d call it; hut the Cap’en doesn’t like to
have anything to do with that sort of
game.”
“Oh, he doesn’t, eh? Mr. Simpson. Just
explain, will you, what the ‘sort of game’
is, that Captain Morley does not care to
have anything to do with.”
And Mr. Blumentbal made a brief note of
something—it looked like a couple of names
—upon his blotting pad.
Crimping, sir,” said the mate, who was
rather amused at Mr. Blumenthal’s inno-
cence, “simply means getting meu drunk
and taking them on board ship while they
are insensible.”
“Oh, indeed,” said the merchant. “ But,”
he added, “ this crumping ”
“Crimping, sir.”
“Just so. As you say—crimping. Well,
this crimping is illega , is it not? ”
Yes, sir,” said the man; “I suppose it
would be.”
‘Then, of course, I can give him no ad_
vice on the subject,” remarked Mr. Blu-
menthal, emphatically.
“Of course not, sir,” acquiesced Mr.Simp-
sou, rising, preparatory to taking his leave.
“One moment before you go, Mr. Sim pson ’ ’
said the merchant. “There are other ships
ready to sail equally as short-handed as the
Crofton Castle, are there not ?”
“There’s the Seafoamand the Snowdrop,
and the—yes, there are one or two ready to
hoist their fore-topsails, sir.”
“ And I suppose,” went on Mr. Blumeu-
thal, in a confidential tone, “ that the cap-
tains of those oth6r ships would not be par-
ticular to a shade or two so long as they got
their meu, would they now, eh, Mr. Simp-
son?”
And Mr. Blumentbal laughed pleasantly.
'“Not they, sir,” said the first mate,
highly amused.
And, in a case such as — that evr u
Captain Morley would be disposed well,
such as yours is—I suppose, ha, ha!
to stretch his conscience a point or two,
provided he was enabled to sail?-come’
now!”
“I can’t really say, sir,” said Simpson,
grinning.
“ Perhaps—to put it this way”— proceeded
Mr. Blumentbal, in a tone of great bonhomie,
‘ perhaps even Captain Morley, provided he
got good stalwart seamen, would not go out
of his way to-morrow to discovr r how they
got on board, eh, Mr. Simpson?”
“ No, sir; I don’t think he would. I know
f shouldn’t.”
“Ah, you wouldn’t. Just so. But this is
only wasting your time and mine Of course
I cannot assist you in getting men if they
I will not ship voluntarily. Anything which
involves the slightest infraction of the law
is out of the question with me. Give Captain
Morley, however, to understand that I shall
expect him to keep his contract to sail to-
morrow—that is, Christmas morning. I shall
hold him personally responsible for any ex-
pense the ship may be put to afteP noon
to-morrow.”
“Very well, sir. I’ll tell the captain Per-
haps he’d better see you himself,” said the
chief officer.
“ Perhaps he had—perhaps he had,” replied
Mr. Blumentbal, gazing thoughtfully out of
the window into the distance.
Then, looking up,
“There is nothing more, I think, Mr. Simp-
son ?”
“Nothing more, sir.”
“ Will you take anything before you go ?”
“ Well, just the merest scintillation of
“Just so.”
Raising the lid of a small wine-cooler that
stood in a corner of the room, Mr. Blumen-
thal took therefrom a decanter of rare old
Cognac, and, reaching to the mantel for a
glass, poured his guest out a “second-mate’s
nip” of the spirit. When he had tossed it
off, the merchant rang a small bell, and
motioned his visitor to the door.
“ Good-bye, Mr. Simpson,” he said. “And
before you go, let me impress upon you to
in no way identify yourself with any of thi.
crimping of seamen. I am a magistrate, and
“ Burying her head in his breast, she cried—‘Stanley, Stanley, save me!’ ”


if anything of this kind were brought under |
ray notice, I should feel bound, indepen-
dently altogether of personal feeling in the
matter, to put it down with a strong hand*
We live in a godly country. Ha! ha! Good
morning.”
When the mate —the expression of whose
countenance had during this last speech of
Mr. Blumenthal’s denoted much perplexity
—had departed, the merchant gave himself
up to a few moments of deep reflection.
And as he pondered and pondered, his brow
grew darker and darker, and his eyes glowed
with a deep unnatural fire. He was or-
dinarily an abstemious man, but on this
morning he drank several glasses of brandy
in succession, each additional dram of liquor
causing a gradual swelling of the veins in
the forehead, as his brain worked on, evolv-
ing minute by minute some intricate scheme.
It was not until the sun was in the meridian
that he rose from his chair. When he did
so, his brow was clear and his eyes were
sparkling.
“ It shall be dorie!” he cried, with exulta-
tion. “ Carefully managed, it cannot fail;
and then—triumph!”
During the rest of that day. Mr. Blumen-
thal was very busy. He visited the sick-
room for a moment, and learned from Miss
Manton that the invalid, who had been pre-
viously a little light-headed, had now sunk
into a heavy sleep. Then calling her aside,
he congratulated her pleasantly upon Stan-
ley’s appearance, entreating her not to set
any weight upon what had n eseaped from
him at breakfast, since it wW plain that, so
far as he was concerned, tne breeze was
blowing in the wrong quarter. Not once
during this brief intei view did he allow the
power he possessed to play upon the girl.
He was simply with her on this occasion a
courteous middle-aged gentleman, full of
solicitude for her welfare, and gratitude for
her services.
When he left her alone with the invalid,
Hester began, in a dazed manner, to think
that she must have dreamed all the inci-
dents which appeared to have occurred to
the detriment of her happiness; and so
great was the effect of the merchant’s
manner with her, that she felt half inclined
to laugh at herself for having summoned
Stanley in so melodramatic a style. But, for
all this, there dwelt in her heart a yearning
to leave the house; and as the face of her
lover rose up before her, and the knowledge
that he was near at hand was strong upon
her, a glow of real happiness warmed her
heart, and a tear of joy glistened upon her
cheek. A little later, the current of her
thoughts was interrupted by a shrill and
unearthly laugh. Glancing round at the
bed, she gave an exclamation of horror. The
dying woman had awakened, delirious.
Meanwhile, Mr. Blumenthal was much
occupied. Besides transacting his usual busi-
ness at the office, he was about the town, in
and out of small hotels of tarry aspect, con-
versing earnestly with waterside characters.
There was money paid, r too—money, not by
cheque, but in gold—and for which ro re-
ceipt was given. Then, when the afternoon
was waning, Mr. Blumenthal returned to
his house, and ordered his servants to serve
dinner, when Mr. Cartright came, in a small
parlour overlooking the back-garden and
stables—a room built out by itself for use
during the extreme heat, and to which access
could be had from the street by the stable
entrance. It was a pleesant little room,
shaded by fig trees, and separated from the
house by a covered passage. Since the ill-
ness of the mistress of the establishment had
assumed so serious a phase as to necessitate
the sending away of the children, the apart-
ment in question had been seldom used.
Before that, however, Hester had been wont
to give them their lessons there, and thus it
was known to the household as the “ school-
room.”
When it drew near to six o’clock, and the
arrangements were all completed, Mr. Blu-
menthal sent a message to Hester, request-
ing her to wait in the sick-room until he
relieved her which he would do immediately
after dinner. He further ordered that as
soon as his guest arrived he should be shown
into the school-ro®m and the meal served;
and lastly, he gave the usual permission to
each of the servants as were not absolutely
required to be either in attendance upon
himself or upon Mrs. Blumenthal to go and
spend - Christmas Eve with theirTfriends.
Then he sat himself down by the open
window, and with a sigh' of ’ relief com-
menced to calmly skim the evening paper.
The dinner had drawn to a close. The last
of the ice pudding had been borne away
upon its porcelain dish, and now the gentle-
men sat leisurely discussing their dessert.
Conversation had not flagged during the
meal. Stanley, with the prospect of a long
interview with Hester before him, was in
hr.’h spirits, while the host was in a mood
which, though decidedly merry, was charac-
t* rised by such strange and sudden bursts
. f demoniac gaiety, that several times
during the dinner Stanley conceived the
idea that his host had been drowning sorrow
in something stronger than water.
“ And so, Mr. Cartright, you are going to
be married, eh ?” said Mr. Blumenthal, when,
after placing a liqueur-stand upon the table
the servant departed.
“I hope so,” answered Stanley, with a
smile.
‘“Hope so?’ Then, is not the affair de-
cided?”
“So far as I am concerned, yes; but,” said
Cartright, laughing, “ as you seem to kindly
interest yourself in the subject, I daresay I
shall be able to give you a decided answer
by and bye.”;
“Well,” said Mr. Blumenthal, unlocking
the liqueur-case w r ith a key which he carried
on his watch-chain, “ if your success de-
pended on my wishes, I know what it would
be.’”
lft“You"'are very kind,” said Stanley,!.look-
ing at Ms watch, and mentally praying that
his host would terminate the entertainment
and allow him to go to Hester, whom he
pictured anxiously awaiting his coming.
“ Miss Hester Man ton is a young lady,”
pursued Mr. Blumenthal, “whom any man
should be proud to win; whom many men
would battle hard to possess. That is, they
would do so, were not the age of chivalry
long past. Nowadays there is no romance—
no breaking of lances in the lists—nothing.
When a man is beaten by his rival in these
degenerate times, he must grin and bear it.
Formerly, if he had the prowess, he would
drill a hole through him, and get rid of him
that way, and if not, his gold would pur-
chase other means of doing so.”
Stanley laughed,
“Any one would think you were a student
of Mrs. Radoliffe,” said he, laughing.
“ Or Eugfene Sue,” remarked Mr. Blumen-
thal, with a quick glance. “But there,” he
continued, “ you must be in a hurry to join
your fiancde. One glass of Curasao shall ter-
minate the entertainment.”
He dr: w the case to him, and poured out
in a small antique glass some of the contents
of one of the bottles. This he handed to his
guest, but before serving himself he twisted
the liqueur frame round, and helped himself
from another decanter, containing a liquid
almost identical in colour with that with
which he had served his guest.
“Here,” said Mr. blumenthal, raising his
voice, “is to the health of the bride that is
to be, and to the man who has won her. I
pledge you, Mr. Cartright.”
And raising his glass, he clinked it against
the rim and the stem of Stanley’s, and both
instantly drank their liquor.
Then Mr. Blumenthal lit a cigarette, took
out his watch, and laid it upon the table.
Leaning back, after this, in his chair, he
fixed his eyes upon Cartright’s face, and
watched intently.
When half a minute had been registered
Stanley rose to his feet, and made a step
towards the door, but stopped abruptly,
gazing vacantly, and with parted lips, at the
merchant.
One minute!—His cigar fell from his hand.
Two minutes!—A film came over his eyes,
and he was blind.
Three minutes! —He lay a helpless bundle
at Blumenthal’s feet.
Two hours later, three men got out of a
carriage at the back entrance of The Grange,
opened with a pass key the stable door,
entered the school-room stealthily, and
taking up the motionless form of Stanley
Cartright, bore it to their vehicle, and
without looking to the right or to the left
drove rapidly away.
In the ante-room of the sick chamber a
light was dimly burning. The invalid had
once fnore dropped into a light slumber, and
Hester was anxiously waiting to be relieved
by Mr. Blumenthal. At length the door
softly opened, and he was before her. She
looked at hinj. And recoiled from him in-
voluntarily. His face was flushed, his hair
was rumpled, and his eyes gleamed like two
halls of glowing lire. He was drunk. Not
with liquor, though he had well dined, but
drunk with triumph.
“She has just dozed off,” said Hester in a
low tone.
He stood before the door with his gaze
concentrated upon her face. He merely
said “ Yes,” vacantly, but did not make any
motion of moving to let her pass.
“ In what room can I And Mr. Cartright ?”
enquired Hester, timidly.
“You will not find him,” replied Blumen-
*hal, exultantly.
“Not And him?”
“No; Mr. Stanley Cartright has gone.”
The colour fled from the girl’s face.
“You are jesting,” she gasped.
“Hester Manton,” he said, clutching her
by the wrist, and drawing her so close to
him that she could feel his hot breath upon
her cheek —“Hester Manton, this has been
no day of jesting with me. It has been
rather a day of desperation.”
“ Unhand me,” she said feebly—“ I do not
uuderstand you.”
“The time has come when you must
understand me, You are my world—the
light of my soul. To possess you is lifo—to
lose you—death. I have fought hard for
life, and I have won it. You shall be mine.”
“Oh, horrible!” cried Hester, hiding her
eyes with her disengaged hand.
With a quick motion he noiselessly closed
thedoor which communicated with the sick-
room. Then, signing to her to be seated on
a couch he knelt before her, and said in a
low tone: —
“The feeble light which flickers within
there must go Out ere many hours. Then I
am free. Free to give you my wealth—my
soul —my life —all that a man can give to her
who is queen of his being.”
“Let me go, let me go!” she sobbed—“ Oh
Stanley, Stanley—how could you desert me
like this? Great heaven, help ”
Feebler and feebler grew the words unti i
they dwindled into a moan. Her hands
grew limp and clammy, and a film seemed
to come over her eyes.
“ Answer me,” he cried.
“You shall take your answer from me,
Paul Blumenthal,” said a weird, unearthly
voice; and at that moment the door of
communication was thrown open, and
standing with outstretched arms before
them was the dying woman.
No apparition could have been more
sudden. She stood in her white robes, press-
ing her band to her heart. About her head
were swathed some white draperies, and
she held in her hand some withered flowers*
Her face was bloodless, and her eyes blazed
from out their deep cavities with an un-
natural fire.
“ Paul Blumenthal,” she said, “ would
you blight another life? See here, Hester
Manton, these flowers. They are typical of
my lot. When I came to him I was as fresh
and as fair as these buds from my bridal
“You shall take your answer from me, Paul Blumenthal! ”


bouquet. Look at them now—withered and
dead; look upon me—wasted and dying.”
During this speech, Hester lay back upon
the sofa, with her eyes half-closed, frozen
with horror; Blumenthal supported him-
self against the wall near the door, and kept
his eyes fixed upon the figure of his wife, as
though fascinated by the apparition.
“I die,” she cried, “a murdered woman-
murdered by every devilish art that cruelty
could suggest, that heartlessness could de-
vise. Cold looks have frozen my neart—
neglect has broken my spirit. Yet through
it all, I have loved him. It is only now that
life is ebbing from me, that the strength has
come upon me to view him in his proper
light—that of a cruel and heartless villain.
Be warned, then, Hester Manton. Flee him
as you would flee a pestilence; then you
may know the sunshine of happiness; listen
t© him, and your heritage will be desolation
and the grave. Go! ”
She motioned to the door, but as she did
so, the red blood bubbled in a stream from
her lips, and with a low groan she sank
down upon the floor, a corpse.
Then a heavy footstep was heard without,
and as the door was opened, Blumenthal
gave an exclamation of rage and disappoint-
ment. Standing on the threshold of the
room was Captain Morley, of the Croftou
Castle.
A small, square, humid apartment—half
room, half cellar. The four walls are of
rough brick, the floor is of rough brick,
and the ceiling is of rough brick, smeared
over with dirty whitewash. The door is of
solid timber, cased on the inside with sheet
iron, and above the portal is a small uu-
glazed window, strongly protected by iron
bars. Although a bright moonlight night,
but a thin stream of light penetrates
into the place, hardly enough to reveal, the
the fact that lying strapped to a low pallet
facing the door, is the form of a young man.
He is asleep, but his breathing is heavy and
stertorous. He has no coat on, and his vest
and shirt sleeves are rent, and the studs
have been violently wrenched out, as is
evidenced by the lorn condition of the
button-holes. The floor bears evidences of
a struggle, for the brick surface, in places,
is scratched and broken as by the violent
action of iron-shod boots, and strewn about
here and there are pieces of broken cord, a
sheath-knife, and a damaged hat.
Twelve o’clock strikes from a neighbour-
ing church tower, and the man on the pallet
opens his eyes. He essays to rise, but can-
not, for he is strapped down by the legs and
by the chest. He struggles furiously—all to
no purpose. Then, with a loud voice that
culminates in a shriek, he cries for help.
*' Help I help!”
He listens. He seems to hear the word re-
verberating far and wide. Hark, there is a
footstep—nearer it come# —nearei yet—no,
’tis fancy. “Help, help!” Silence. The
last cry was but a hoarse rattle. The voice
is exhausted.
Lower now the moon dips, and her rays
beam aslant the face of the prisoner. There,
scarred and bleeding, are revealed the fea-
tures «f Stanley Cartright.
How came he there? He knows not.
Where he is, he cannot tell. All he knows is
that his brain is a-flame, and that molten fire
is coursing through his veins. He knows
that the balance of his mind is gone. He is
mad.
But with the insanity that is upon him he
has a madman’s cunning and a madman’s
strength. Once more, then, he makes a ter-
rific struggle to free himself. The straps
stretch, they crack, but he cannot break
them. His arms and chest are black with
the intense pressure; his eyes are bloodshot,
and his muscles standing ont in corded
knots. One last superhuman effort—Ha! an
arm is free.
Gazing around him, his eye lights upon
the sheath-knife. It is an ordinary five-inch
blade flttted into a wood handle, and lies
bub a few feet from his couch. He reaches,
and can just touch it with his finger-tip.
Wetting his hand, he tries once more. The
wood adheres to the damp skin, and he
draws it to him.
A moment later the blade has severed his
leather bonds, and he is free.
How to escape ? He tries the four walls
and the door. All solid. The window he
oannot reach. What to do, then? He is
down on the floor, near the door, and can
feel the cold air rushing in beneath it. A
bright idea flashes across his brain, and he
utters a shout of triumph. He will loosen
he bricks with the knife and escape.
He commences his work with the furious
energy of a madman. An hour passes, and
three bricks are displaced. Two hours, and
seven are piled up beside him. An hour
more, and freedom. Steady, now. The
eighth brick is loose, and he has but to prize
it up. He does so, but in the effort the knife
breaks, and the brick falls back sideways in
its bed, its fall producing a metallic ring.
Throwing it out, he plunges his hand into
the hole and draws forth a small bag. It is
of leather, and is fastened with cord. To
open it is the work of an instant, and he
pours some of the contents out into his
hands. It is gold—heavy, shining, and
precious.
Gold! He weighs it, feels it, pours it from
hand to hand in the moonlight, and lastly
puts it in the bag, and hides the treasure in
liis breast. He has no thoughts of anything
uow but of gold. When he looks around
he does not seo damp-stained walls of
hideous brick, but a fairy temple, fashioned
out of the purest bullion. His poor drugged
brain, which before was on fire with fury,
is now in a blaze with visions of untold
treasure.
With a loud cry of exultation he throws
himself upon the bed, and clutching his
treasure to his breast, closes his eyes in
rapture. Then the moon seems to fade away
fxom the window, and a ghastly silence
descends upon the earth. He holds his
breath and listens.
Clink, clink!
What is that? He listens again. The
coins in the bag are moving.
Uttering an exclamation, he closes both
hands tightly on the bag. Clink, Clink I
Tighter still, and they are silent.
He looks down at his breast where the
treasure is, and lo, he can see the bright
yellow of the gold shining thiough the
leather. A moment later, and his closed
fingers are gently parted, and forcing its
way through them is seen a golden coin—
■A. Louis D’Or
of France. It poises itself upon his hand,
soars into mid-air, and strikes the centre of
the wall opposite. There it remains
ary, and gradually expands into a large
disc of shining metal —bright as a burnished
golden mirror. Then gradually upon its
polished surfaces the forms of living beings
appear, and in this wise does the coin tell its
own story:—
In a large, windy apartment of an hotel garni, on
the Boulevard Montparnasse, Paris, sat, one
winter s afternoon, two art students, One was
tall and stout and swarthy, and was sitting at an
easel smoking a pipe, and now and again putting
touches of colour upon a large canvas, which lay
upon a rickety easel before him. This was
Alexandre Porrestier, artist and Bohemian, who
believed himself to be, and who was credited by
his fellow students with being, a painter that
possessed the imagination ofBadin and the colour-
ing powers of Delorme. The world had not,
however, at that time discovered in M Porrestier
the marvellous taleuts which he claimed to
possess, and with which his friends accredited
him, and, as will be seen hereafter, the Salon com.
mittee had hitherto received his efforts with a
coldness that bordered on contumely.
His companion was younger and slighter, and
was seated before an old rattletrap of a piano,
singing in a harsh voice one of those eccentric
stanzas which libretto-writers term “ monsters ”
and vamping an equally discordant accompani-
ment the while. r ihis was Uon Mongeot—poet,
musician, and dramatist. The attire of the artist
consisted of a complete suit of brown holland, so
tight in the leg and so spotted with paint that
from a distance he looked like a ghostly harlequin ;
while Mongeofs dress was even more bizarre, the
upper part of him being concealed by a velveteen
coat with one tail missing, and the lower by a pink
satin quilted petticoat, covered with spangles—a
relic ®t the last carnival, left there in her flight (as
he loved to tell) by a Marchioness whom he had
enslaved while masquerading at the bal d* l optra
in theonaraeter of the Baron de Gondor.
“ 0uf exclaimed the artist, with a shiver,
“ there’s hunger in the air. Are not we going to
dine to-day ?”
Mongeot looked up from his piano with an
expression of languid surprise.
What! dine two days running,” he cried. “Go,
visionary !”
At that moment a knock came at the door. It
was the porter, who brought a letter for Mongeot.
“ It’s four sons,’’ said the messenger.
“Indeed,” said Leon, with an air of interest;
yon don’t say so. And taking the missive from
the faltering hands of the concierge, he desired
him to carry the expression of his distinguished
consideration to his good lady, and gently but
firmly closing the door, prized him, as it were, out
on to the landing.
Hardly had he glanced over the letter than
Mangeot commenced to execute a delirious dance
of joy all over the room. The exoitemeut grow-
ing upon him with the exercise, he whisked once,
with his satin petticoat so near the easel that he
was within an inch of sending the “ Passage
of the Red Sea,” upon which Forrestier was en-
gaged, bang through the window into the street.
If you don’t keep still soon, mon cher,” said
Forrestier, who read signs of mental aberration
in the eccentric conduct of his friend—“ I shall,
by way of a sedative, play to you, without delay,
upon that instrument, the allegro of my sym-
phony on the “Influence of Blue or Pre-Raphael-
istio Art.” This awful threat had a magical
effect.
1 Here,” said L6on, passing the latter to his
friend, “read what it says.”
It was an invitation to dine with a member of
Parliament, who, being an art-patron, had pro-
posed some time before that Mangeot should
write a poem, the authorship of which, for a con-
sideration in bullion, should pass to the art-patron-
izing deputS.
Humph! it’s for to-day,” said Forrestier
gloomily. “ What a pity that the invitation wa>
not for two. Bnt,” he added, while a ray of hope
illumined his speaking countenance, your depute
is on the Ministerial side! Young man,” he
went on, in voice rendered husky by emotion,
“ you will not, you cannot accept this invito. Your
political opinions forbid you, sir to break the
bread of a man which is moistened by the sweat
that falls from the brows of a starving populace.’*
Bah ! said Mongeot; “ it’s not a question of
politics, bnt one of dinner. I am a genius, I own ;
but still I am mortal. And, being mortal, I am
hungry. Come what will,” he added, executing a
series of what melodramatists call “hurries”
upon the villainous piano. “ I intend this day ts
dine.”
“ there is another obstacle,” said Forres-
tier, who was goaded to fury by the thought of
his friend dining luxuriously without him, “yon
can’t go to a dinner-party in a velveteen jacket
and a satin petticoat.”
“Never mind. I'll borrow some clothes from
Jouvin and Meilhao,” said L6on, mentioning the
name of two brother students.
“Madman!” exclaimed Forrestier. “Don’t
you know that we are at the 20th of the month,
and that by this time their clothes will have been
‘ popped ’ and ‘ re-popped.’ ”
“ Never mind. The dinner is at seven. Be’
tween this and six o'clock I’ll get a black coat
somewhere.”
And hastily discarding the satin petticoat, he
pulled on a pair of chess-board check trousers
with lightning-like rapidity.
“ Tou are sanguine,” remarked Forrestier,
dabbing with carmine the already florid cheek of
the Pharoah of his picture. “ 1 remember that
it took me three weeks to raise one when I went
to my cousin’s wedding.”
“ No matter,” cried L6on, excitedly pacing the
room. “ I'll go as I am. I will not allew a miser-
able question of etiquette to prevent my mount*
ing the first rung on the ladder of fame.”
Then, ’ remarked Alexandre, with diabolical
sangfroid, “ we come to the question of—boots.”
At these words Mongeot, in a state of agitation
impossible to describe, jammed an old hat on his
head, and flung himself out of the room.
In the meantime, Forrestier, whistling softly,
worked away at his picture. It was a painting
upon which he had been occupied for rather over
six years, and an equal number of times it had
been obstinately refused a place on the walls of
the Salon by the committee. This conduct on the
part of the art jury Forrestier attributed to
motives of personal hostility, and in his efforts to
obtain admission for his picture he had re-painted
it so many times, that at length the cobalt stood
upon the cloak of Pharoah as thick as a cake of
tobacco. By way of revenge, Alexandre had
published an illustrated “ Eemonstranoe,”
addressed to the judges, which by reason of its
bitter ferocity had become popular at the Salon
and at the Ecole des Beaux Arts, at the same time
successfully shutting Forrestier out of the exhibi*
non for ever and for ever.
Of late years, however, the artist had adopted a
new lino of assult on the annual exhibition. When
sending in his picture for the examination of the
jury (which he did religiously the same day every
year) in erder to steal a march on the oammittee,
and dispose at one fell swoop of the dislike which
the judges had taken to “ The Passage of the Eed
Sea, Alexandre, without miking any sweeping
charges in the general outline of the composition,
contented himself with modifying a few of
details, and sent it in under another name. Thus
in the exhibition of ’42, it came before the com
mittee under the title of “ The Passage of the
hubicon ; ’ but Pharoah being but feebly disguised
as Caasar, was instantly detected and ignominiously
expelled When again the time of the annual
exhibition came round, Alexandre slapped down on
his foreground a coating of white, to represent
snow, planted a fir-tree in the left-hand corner,
and dressing the Egyptian monarch up as a
grenadier of the Imperial guard, labelled his
picture “The Passage of the Beresina.” The
committee, however, were not to be deceived by
this new ruse, ihey recognized the obstinate
canvas at once by a multi-coloured steed, which
madly plunged amongst the Eed bea waves ; and
not enough black balls could be found with which
to adequately “ pill” “The Passage of the Ba-
sina.”
How,” mused Forrestier, “ could they refuse
this splendid triumph, without all the vermilion
that is in the Eed fcoa mounting to their faces and
covering them with shame? To think, too, that
there is at least ten louis’ worth of colour, not to
mention a million’s worth of genius, embodied in
the work. No matter. I will not be crushed.
Were I at my last gasp, I would send them is
again and again my picture.”
At this moment the door was burst open, and
Leon darted into the room. He had been absent
an hour, and had brought back —a shirt-collar.
That is all I have been able to raise,” he said,
pitiously.
‘ What a pity to have such a long run after so
little. There is enough paper here to have manu*
tactured a gross,” said Forrestier, lighting his
pipe with a match, and blowing it out with a puff
of smoke.
* Good heavens !” cried L6on, tearing his hair
in his perplexity, “we must have some clothes
somewhere.”
And he commenced a frantic search in every
hole and corner of the room. After a lengthened
perquisition, Mongeot rummaged together a cos-
tume composed of the following ingredients
A pair of shepherd’s-plaid pants.
A soft grey hat.
A rod tie.
Une glove (formerly white), and
One black glove.
“Come, that will be a pair of black ones at a
pinch,” said Forrestier. “But when you are
dressed in that rig, you will look like a tobacco-
nist’s sign in trousers. However, it’s appropriate,
perhaps as yon are fond of smoking.”
During this speech Mongeot tried on the boots.
Horror ! they were both for the same foot.
Rendered desperate by continued reverses, he
looked wildly about him, and at length his ga
lighted on an old boot, which had been for years
utilized as a receptacle in which to keep used u
paints and hairless brushes. He grasped it wi
a cry of triumph.
“ Imperialist and Republican,” said Forrestier
ironically. One is square-toed and the other
pointed.”
“ No matter, I’ll varnish them.”
‘‘And now all you require is the stereotyped
black coat,” said Alexandre.
“Misery!” cried Mongeot, “to think that a
paltry black coat should stand between me and
future fame! This is the turning-point, I feel
my existence. For a coat I would give bills
millions. Ah, what’s that ?”
The last exclamation was elicited by ano
knock being heard at the door.
“That’s the porter for the four sons,” remark
Forrestier, who was hungrily gnawing the “ heel”
of a very stale loaf.
What matter ?” cried LtSon in desperation
“ Let the bitter-cap bo filled to the brim.” W
these words he threw open the door, and a st
respectable-looking stranger was discovered stand
ing on the threshold.
“ M. Forrestier, the eminent painter P” enquired
the visitor, looking at Mongeot.
“My coat I” cried the Delegate, clutching the poet by the arm.


“ I would I were,” said L4on, heaving a pro-
found sigh. •• There,” he continued, pointing to
his friend, who was vainly endeavouring to cough
up a piece of crust that had stuck half-way >
* • there is the heaven-born geuins you are in quest
of.”
“ Monsieur,” said the stranger, addressing the
illustrious artist of “ The Passage of the Red Sea, ’
“ my cousin, the grocer of the Rue St. Jacques,
has spoken to me of your talent for portrait paint-
ing”
“ Your cousin ?” said Forrestier, enquiringly.
“ Yes. You painted bis dog.”
“Ah !”
11 \ es, Monsieur. And as I am about to travel
to the colony of Algeria on business, I wish to
leave a souvenir of myself in the midst of my
family.”
“ Divine Providence ! we thank thee,* mur-
mured Alexandre, while L6on with great politeness
set a chair for the stranger.
My name is Leroy. 1 am a delegate from the
sugar-refiners of Nantes,” went on the stranger,
‘ 1 and 1 wish to be taken with my treatise on sugar
in my hand. And I would stipulate that the best
colours only be employed in the picture.
“ j never use any others,” replied Forrestier.
‘‘How large do you want the picture?” he
enquired.
‘ ‘ About 20 1 15 inches. But what would be the
figure at that size?”
’’From 50 to 60
francs,” said Alexandre.
“My cousin mentioned
that thirty francs
would be about your
charge,” said M. Leroy.
“My price varies with
the season,” said For-
rtstier, politely. “Fainte,
I must tell you, ate
dearer at some times of
the year than at others.”
“ lhat’s just like
sugar, then ” said the
stranger.
' piecisely. Fifty
cents without the hands,
and sixty with them.”
“Done for fifty, then.”
• What, and how about
the treatise P Come, say
sixty, and I’ll say stress
on ;jou’ garret ting, and
biing prominently for-
ward that thumb with
the top sliced off.”
“Good —I agree,” said
M Leroy.
“ H»vo you noticed,”
wbhpeied >n, in the
artist’s ear, “ that he s
got it? ’
“ Got what? ’
“ a olack coat ”
“ I understand you,”
said Forrestier, iu the
same tone “leave things
to me."’
“ Well, Monsieur,”
said the delegate, “ when
shall you be ready to
commence ? It must be
boo i, as I leave almost
immediately.”
“ I am in almost the
same predicament my-
self,” observed Alexan-
dre, with a smile 1 have
a little voyage on hand
which will oblige me to
quit Paris the day after
to-morrow. If you are
agreeable, we will
commence imme-
diately,” he said,
with a meaning look in Lion’s direction; “a good
Bitting, now that you are here, will help us on
materially.”
“ Bat it will be dark soon,” said Mr Leroy.
“No matter, monsieur. My studio,” he said,
glgnoing proudly at a orasy naptha lamp with a
cracked glass, “is adapted for working in at all
hours so if you will be good enough to take the
pose, we will start business without further
celay.’
“ Certainly,” said the delegate, putting him-
self in an attitude which savoured equally of the
auctioneer and the bandit.
“ lake off your coat, please,” said the artist,
with an awkward attempt to convert a cough into
a laugh.
“lake off my coat! Why?” exolaimcd the
man of sugar.
“Why, didn’t you tell me that the picture is
destined for your family P ’ said Forrestier.
“ Certainly I did.”
“ Well, then, you should be represented as
wearing your fireside costume —a dressing-gown.”
“True,” saidM Leroy, “but I have po dressing-
gown here ”
“But I have,” said the artist, producing tri-
umphantly from a dilapidated chest a ragged old
blue flannel gown, coveted with paint splashes,
and having one sleeve ripped open up to the
elbow At the first glance at this garment the
client made a stop backwards, and appeared to
hesitate.
“ That is a rather singular-looking article ot
apparel, ’ remarked M. Leroy, doubtfully.
“ It is a very precious one,” said Alexandre,
proudly. “ It is a Turkish vizier, which was pre-
sented to me by M. Horace Vernet. I am his
pupil. ’
“ Are you a pupil of Horace Vernet ?”
“ I am proud to say I am.”
“ And yon have reason to be,” said the sugar-
refiner’s delegate, removing his coat, and donning
the dressing-gown with the noble origin.
“ Hang the gentleman’s coat behind the door,”
said the artist to his friend, with a wink
“ Good !” whispered L6on, clutching the gar
ment. ” Now to dress in the next room, and fly.”
jj'orrestier commenced his picture, and Mongeot
began to dress. In a little while, the artist re-
tired behind the easel to get another crayon, and
the sitter took the opportunity of drawing a littl-
pooket-miir r from his vest, and contemplating,
with great interest, a bulbous pimple which was
flourishing on one side of his nose. Just at that
moment L6ou, habited in the black coat, came en
tip-toe out of the bed-room, and was about to
pass out, when the owner of the garment bounded
from his seat and seized him.
‘‘My coat!” cried the delegate, clutching the
poet by the arm
“ I am lost,” exclaimed L£on, as half-past six
struck from the church tower opposite.
“ It’s a mistake,” ejaculated Alexandre, while
his friend, purple to the eyes, peeled off the gar-
ment. - —
What the reply of M. Leroy would have been
can only be conjectured ; for at that moment the
door opened unceremoniously and a thiu old man,
leaning heavily upon a stick, and wearing a long
grey beard, entered the apartment.
“What!” Aaron the Jew i” cried the two
students.
It was a well-known money-lender and hrocan-
tier of the Quartier Lctin
The Jew, who was out of breath with his long
ascent, sank into a chair, and as ho did so the
pleasant clink of coin resounded through the
room, and the two Bohemians glanced meaningly
at each other.
“ Now for the song,” said Alexandre to the
poet, “ the prelude was pretty enough for any-
thing.”
“ Monsieur Forrestier,” said Aaron, “ I have
oome to pour gold into your lap. r J hat is to say,
I am here to enable you to make your dehut in the
artistic world. Art, Monsieur Alexandre, is a
sterile desert of which glorious success is the
basis.”
“ In the name of 50 per cent , your patron saint,
be brief, ” cried the artist
“ Then I’ll tell yon. A collector of pictures is
mounting a gallery of paintings which will make a
stir in the artistic world I now offer you a place
amongst the painters of his museum. In a word,
I am commissioned to purchase your ‘ Passage of
the Red Sea ’ ”
“ Feelm , L£on,” murmured Forrestier, “ Tes,
I am alive. Oh, sweet dream hover over mine
intellect for ever!”
* ‘ WHat do yon say ?’ ’ said the Jew, chin king the
money in his pockets.
“You are going to buy the picture for ready
money ?’’ snrieked Forres tier. “ You— you’re not
d.unk eh, Aaron ? '
* Cash down.”
“ Whom for ?”
“ Well,” said Aaron, with some hesitation, “ the
purchaser is a Monsieur Martin, of the Rue St
Jacques.”
“ that must be my cousin,” said the sugar-
refiner’s delegate.
Aaron, catching M. Leroy’s eye, motioned him
not to pursue tne suoject.
“ What shall we say .or it?” said Aaron, looking
askanco at the cerulean robe of Pharoah.
“ To you, sweet Israelite, ’ said Forrestier,
‘ will 1 depute the honour of fixing the price of a
work of art which has practically none ”
“ Then I say, twenty francs, and a glorious
entrance into the brilliant world of arts.”
“But think of the cobalt alone on the robe of
Pharoah,” moaned the artist.
“ My first word is my last,” returned the Jew
clinking his money once again.
This metallic sound was too much for Forres-
tier.
“ Throw in a black coat for Leon, a dinner for
myself and Monsieur, and its a go,” cried the
artist.
“ Agreed,” cried the Jew.
And five minutes afterwards, clad in a nonde
script blue garment, with white seams and a
moulting collar, Leon Mongeot was on his way to ;
his deputes; while a little later found the Jew,
the artist, and the sugar-refiner's delegate seated
before a banquet at a neighbouring cafe
About a fortnight after the banquet, Porrestier
discovered accidentally the gallery which his
splendid effort in oil so particularly graced. He
happened one afternoon to be strolling along the
hue frt. Jacques, on his way home, when his
attention was attracted by a crowd of people who
were gazing with an appearance of much interest
and admiration upon a large sign which had been
erected over the door of a small grocer's shop.
Hardly had he fix°d his eyes upon the object, than
he uttered an exclamation T he picture was none |
other than his “ Passage of the Red Sea.” The
canvas, however, had undergone yet another
slight modification bef jre being transferred to its
present elevated sphere. .another artist had
painted in a steam boat and a church spire, and
the work was elaborately labelled—“ i he Port of
Marseilles ” Forrester stood amongst the
throng, and as he listened to their loudly-
expressed encomiums upon the splendv.ur of the
work, the first flush of triumph mounted to h.s
brow, and he exclaimed : 11 How truly spoke
Lamartine in his immortal line—‘ The voice of the
people is the voice of heaven ’
Tho glitter of the Louis D’Or seemed to fade, as
the vuio« ceased. 1 ne pear-shaped hr ad of Louis
Phillippe which shone on the coin changed its
lineaments. Blotches appeared on the dim disc,
there seemed to be a rattle and a jingle amidst the
coins under Stanley’s grasp; and when next his
attention concentrated on the wall, it seemed to
him that he was looking at a tarnished coin, and
listening to the voice cf
A Bad Sovereign.
“ I’m Bad-that’s what I am.” The words were
sprightly
That came from the flash coin upon the floor ;•
“ I’m Bad, but still, you see, I shine as brightly
As sovereigns minted from the genuine ore.
I’m sure my mug is something less unsightly
Than that old guinea’s, there against the door,
I’m Bad—but can’t say that I feel much sadness
On that account, as I was born to badness.
“ N ow is it not quite logical that money,
From which all evil springs, as from a seed
Which buys you aloes labelled ‘garden honey,’
Should in itself be false. I'm sure, indeed,
If e’er it happens so extremely funny.
That Truth shall be an universal creed.
All money will be worthless as a tender
For what mere love and brotherhood will render.
“ But hang all that! You’d like to hear my story
And I will tell it you. I am not old,
An infant—yet it makes me feel quite hoary,
To think of all that 1 have bought and sold
(Once I’d a soul half out of Purgatory,
Before the priest found out I wasn’t gold,
And then, instead of landing Satin’s victim,
He sent his son there, too, for having trie ed him'.
“ But I anticipate—it’s always my way,
I skip along instead of going slow.
1 first beheld the light in
a dim bye-way,
And I admit my parent-
age was low.
I stole into the world in
quite a shy way ;
No birthday-feast was
mine — no cham-
pagne flow,
Though I was quite my
present shape and
size at
My birth, my parents,
didn’t advertise it.
“Oh, no; they held a mod-
est celebration,
With galleries cleared,
and doors well
locked within,
Whereat there was no all-
night-long oration.
Nor any patter, only
‘ Pass the gin,’
Or * Strike me dead, but
on this here occa-
sion,
Old pals, just tip us
every one your fin,’
And such like pleasan-
tries, all on the
quiet.
Without an outward
sound of drink or
riot.
“Next day my christen-
ing was. In several
vials
Of most Satanic liquid
1 was dipped,
And after many ineffec-
tual trials,
They said that I was
ready to be shipped
Off to * Horstrailyer,’ So,
in Seven Dials,
They passed me to a
Hebrew, sausage-
lipped,
Who polished me with
care, and filed my
edges,
And hid me underneath
a lot of pledges.
“For days and days I
slept below a mass
of
Promiscuous chattels,
things of small
worth, pawned
Through instant need —It might be of a glass of
Square gin (of which, some people are too fond).
Or a square feed—you know that there’s a class of
Poor devils who flud such a thing beyond
Their means, who, hungers direst tortures beai on
Until compelled to fly to Isaac Aaron.
•« Above me was a fur, which, erstwhile wrapped In
A glowing maiden reigned as Beauty’s queen,
Till men grew false, and all her life lay mapped In
Foul devious u jderpaths and ways unclean ;
Beside a tasselled cane some half-pay captain
Had walked abroad with, splendid to be seen,
Till all his finery frayed, and friends forsook him,
And age, and want, and Aaron overtook him.
“ Around, pathetic records of privation.
Poor trinket—memories of timeless biers,
Things consecrated to life-lamentation,
Things washed with holiness by ceaseless tears.
Things clung to fondly through all tribulation—
All bitter stresses of disastrous years;
Sad tokens of lost loves, and iron crosses,
And certain proofs of utter worldly losses.
“ it little mattered, though, to Aaron what was
The secret glorifying every ring
Or gem, he only reckoned what he thought was
Its value, just how much it ought to bring.
Then gave on. quarter— in his heart no jot was
Of pity tor the poor er suffering.
Had he been only J. Iscariot, then he
Had run the Saviour up another penny.
“ From where I lay, I could behold serenely
The fish who wandered ii.to Aaron’s net,
Some, tough old hands who made their bargain*
keenly,
But always had the worst of ’em, you bet,
“ This was his ring, and she must pawn it, rather
Than let her orphan sisters need relief.”


Some others, hunger-pinched, yet neat and cleanly.
Crept in sad-featured, and with teeth hard-set.
And, knowing little of their uncle’s prices,
W ere offered up as Mammon’s sacrifices.
•' One wintry morning, when the fog was folded
About the window-panes, a glorious face
Lit up the pawnshop—a face sweetly moulded
With so much ornament of female grace,
That I peered out enchanted to behold it,
So sweet and youthful in that dark chill place
(I’m Bad, as I’ve observed, but nowise callous,
I’ve led—and followed—Beauty to the gallows.
“ Her story was, as far as I could gather,
Particularly touching—to be brief,
She had but newly lost a darling father
(At this point her rich rose-lips worked with
grief),
This was his ring, and she must pawn it, rather
Than let her orphan sisters need relief.
Ah! that her life should have been thus em-
bittered,
Etcetera—then held out the ring which glittered.
“ As Aaron’s eyes did also when he took it.
And turued it here *nd there to note the gems;
But still he wagged his Hebrew head, and shook it,
As one who sits in judgment and condemns,
And said, 4 Ma tear, it’s goot enough to look at,
But I can’t throw my monish in the Thames;
I won’t advance you more than twenty on it.’
At this, tears dropped from ’neath the maiden’s
bonnet.
“ ‘ Alas !’ she said, * my poor dear father paid for
This ring two hundred guineas, and I pray
That I may shortly by his side be laid, for
The world is cruel to me—sir, good day.’
* Hold on, ma tear—it’s too much I’m afraid for
The ring—I’ll give you thirty—what d’ye say ?’
‘ Oh, sir, my means are so extremely short, I
Cannot lose this last hope for less than forty.’
“ I’m Bad, old Toucher, and I felt a sort of
Delighted thrilling in my heart of brass,
To see old Aaron made the tool and sport of
This lovely pleading, sorrowful, sweet lass.
It seemed a miracle but little short of
The lingual outpourings of Baalam’s ass.
Had I been human I had surely kissed her,
And hailed her for my bright, false, brazen sister.
44 Well, Aaron very lengthily protested
That he was but the very poorest Jew,
But in her trouble was so interested,
That he would try his best to pull her through.
He had no cash at present, but suggested
That she should call again at half-past two,
By which time he believed that he could borrow
The money requisite. So, in soft sorrow,
“ She went her way, and from my place of hiding
The Hebrew drew me, and with many a wink.
He said, ‘ Dot Christian maiden is confiding,
I’ll pass you off on her, mine f rent, I think.’
His words were cheerful, and his heart deriding,
As on the floor he made me bound and chink.
But I thought, ‘ Others know as much as you do ;
Don’t be too sure, my jubilating Judah.
So I was mixed—I felt it an injustice—
With battered coins, all genuine and worn.
Who said to me, * Our set the upper crust is,
We treat such parvenus as you with scorn.’
I only smiled, an! said, 4 My lot, I trust, is
Not quite ig le. I am lowly born,
But yet, I wager, will win far more notice
Than you, whose lives are sleepy as a lotus.’
44 That afternoon, the tearful, high-born maiden
Came, as appointed, and th - ring was popped,
And I was with the money she was paid in,
But she was innocent, and mver 4 dropped,’
And Aaron thought, 4 I’m not the least afraid in
The world that I am likely to be copped
If it is twigged : it won’t be twigged, though—
not it—
She’s far too proud to tell them where she got it,’
44 4 My dSbut then, is made—farewell, inaction,’
I cried, as close within the damsel’s purse
I lay, 4 ’tis mine to feel the satisfaction,
Henceforth, of being a most active curse
To those to whom red gold is an attraction.
For good is bad enough, but bad is worse.
My life lies out before me, and how gaily
Shall I send greenhorns tripping to Old Bailey.’
“That night my new possessor, with the lily
And rose half-washed from what she called her
4 mug,’
Squealed 4 D n it, William, don’t you be so silly;
You squeeze the wind from me the way you
hug.’
She sat upon the knee of One-eyed Billy,
Whose teeth were buckies, and whose nose a
pug,
Amid a crowd where men who sold hot trotters.
Sang small before the coiners and garotters.
44 And One-eyed Billy answered, 4 Blast yer
screechin’,
Can’t vun be playful vlth his promised vife ;
She’s mine, gents, arter several days’ beseechin’,
Although she cut me like a bloomin' knife,
Until I threatened susancide, or peachin’,
Vich last, as you’re avare, for her meant Life.
Fetch in more purl, pals, fill up every pewter,
And drink to Mrs. Billy—of the future.
44 4 Let Ned the Gouger fetch another canful,
I’ll stand Sam this time for Jemima’s sake;
I alvays does my best to act up manful,
I knows what’s jonnik, coves, and no mistake.
I don’t do nothing mean, not by a panful
And now I'm flush, through being wide awake
Enough to send the blowen to old Aaron,
To floor him with her aristercratic bearing.
* 4 Oh stiffen me ! if Moses didn’t let her
Get at him to the tune of forty quid,
Upon a ring that’s not a farthing better
Than this I’m wearing, without any kid.
I’ll bet Jerusalem von’t soon forget her,
Yen he finds out the vay that he’s been 4 did.’
He took Jemima to be soft as butter,
And gave her this—oh, chuck me in the gutter !”
44 He drew me forth, and threw me on the table.
And all the room buzzed up to get a look,
And there rose such a laudatory Babel
Of 4 Genuine, I’d swear it on the Book.’
That licks you, Stumpy, you were never able
To turn out that sort, you’ve been overtook.’
That I, o’erpowered by the flattering welcome,
Felt vivid blushes to my head and tail come.
“ And I was handled with delight and wonder.
Passed all around the crowd l rom hand to hand,
While Stumpy called upon the Lord to thunder
Him blind, and likewise strike a lighted brand
On all on earth, or in the waters under
The earth, if he began to understand
How I was made, being almost wrought to madness
At sight of all the glory of my badness.
“ Then One-eyed Billy (who was also known as
The Nummer, by his more immediate chums).
Addressing the assembled blokes and donahs,
The saddest offal of the foulest slums.
Who from society had been upthrown, as
So many Jonahs, told, while thievish thumbs
Were put derisively to thievish noses,
His game, which my yarn further on discloses.
“ Now let me slide this scene right out, and slide in
Another. ’Mid the trees and flowers of Kew,
A maiden sat, in attitude confiding,
Upon a seat that just could carry two ;
One of those seats that keep apart, and hide in
The shrubs, secluded from the public view—
The maiden who was sworn to be the Nummer’s—
And by her side a youth of twenty summers,
“ Born of the country—with the country leaven,
Of stammering speech and free-selector stare.
Who, seeking ‘Lunnon ’ from his native Devon,
Had found this London lassie kind and fair ;
And times were when he touched the gates of
Heaven,
Or plumbed the Hell of uttermost despair—
Alternate spasms of joy or sorrow swayed him,
As on her hook the female angler played him.
“ Some cash he had when this Delilah found him,
In Cremorne Gardens, when the lamps were
bright.
With large amazement gazing round and round
him,
At petticoated phantoms of delight.
And in the manacles of Beauty bound him,
And wrung his money from him night by night,
While he (whose only hold was Agriculture)
Laid bare his heart to the rapacious vulture.
“ Fair tales she told him of a mother stricken
With hopeless illness on a couch of pain,
Of woes that ever round her seemed to thicken,
Of hoping brighter moments, but in vain ;
Whereat the clown’s bucolic pulse would quicken
And he would squeeze into her hand again
A sovereign—then another, and another,
To help the angel to support her mother.
“And night by night, among the Dolly Vardens
In all but virtue, would he seek her out.
And treat her to the pleasures of the Gardens,
And squeeze her hand, and liberally shout;
While she and Billy were as gay as sardines,
In secret, on the savings of the lout.
Until it grew apparent that the ninny
Was getting close upon his final guinea.
“ So on this morning she had come to Kew, to
Console with promises the faded youth.
Who came to bid affectionate adieu to
His love, and tell her of his heart’s pure truth;
And I (although I am as Bad as Pluto)
Felt in my innards something almost ruth
For his mad love out b' dng like a rocket.
I lay all this time in his o voetheart’s pocket,
“ Quite ready for the pre-arranged occasion
Of being passed upon the village clown.
And heard (in confidence) this conversation
4 Alas, my love, I now have but a brown.
I go, and know not what my destination
May be, but can I care for Fortune’s frown.
Or whether I have any roof above me,
So that 1 know that you, my darling, love me.*
44 Pathetic, wasn’t it?—Look here, old buffer,
You’re dropping off again; you made me start
To pitch you this most interesting cuffer,
And, when I get to an exciting part,
You snore. 4 0, love, whatever you may suffer,’
The maiden answered, 4 in my weary heart,
I too, will suffer many sad times over.
Why did I take your gold, my noble lover,?’
44 4 No rose that ever blew in Kew ’—etcetera ;
4 I’d like to tell you all,’ he said, 4 but now
I see you’re shaky, so I think I’ll fetter a
Too lively memory, and just say how
They parted, after saying things that better a
Good deal were left u, said. 4 Behold, I vow,
My love, with purest gold—when this will alter,
Or men will change it— then my love may falter.’
44 With this she drew me from her purse, and taking
Her lover’s hand, bestowed me with a kiss,
Who cried, ’Though far away my heart were
breaking
I To look on your sweet face, to look on this
Would reconcile me to my lot. awaking
A clear remembrance of departed bliss,
And, love, accept this coin, my last, a token
Of love that cannot be unlinked or broken.’
“Then hivl-g swapped me to her satisfaction.
She tore he.-,elf away, and long he sat
Gazing upon me in sad, sweet abstraction,
But never dreaming that he’d been got at.
And now I’ll suddenly remove the action
Of all my history to Ballarat.
You never guessed, when I commenced this story,
you
Would And I knew the diggins of Victoria.
“ Lake Wendouree lay shining in the summer
(Or what there was of it in those old days),
Whereto there came a weary way-worn comer,
Slow trudging on beneath the fiery blaze
(Of course, you guess ’twas our old friend, the
Nummer;
Well, then, it wasn’t) to where many drays
Were camped beside the water, which the stink of
Had made it nigh impossible to drink of.
“ The wayfarer, who had the usual swag on,
Slouched on with a peculiar mien and gait
That past all doubt, wrote plainly the word 4 hag ’
on
His whole identity. ‘Hullo, there, mate,’
He cried to one who, seated by his waggon
Cooked dinner, and, while cooking cursed his
fate,
*I’ve tramped from Creswick, where I’ve had no
luck, or
I wouldn’t beg you for a bit of tucker.’
“ The bullocky reached out and took his pan off,
Aud turned the steak upon a plate of tin ;
Then straightening up, while perspiration ran off
His face, said, 4 Right, old man, there’s not much
in
The grub-box, but I’ve never turned a man oft
Without a feed, and don’t mean to begin
Just yet. Sit down, old chum, and take things
steady,
And tell how you got lagged till dinner’s ready.’
44 His words came out unthinkingly and freely,
As words came out in that red-shirted past,
When sentiments were not expressed 4 genteely,’
And Fashion ruled the hour with 4 d—n’and ‘blast,’
But as he spoke, the stranger’s eye grew steely,
And as a man struck suddenly aghast,
Whose life-long hope some loss has left Invalid,
His quivering lips grew very blanched and pallid,
44 And drawing to the teamster’s side, and grasping
His hand, be tremblingly essayed to speak,
But no sound passed his lips save a low gasping,
And tears stood out upon his dusty cheek ;
Then, slowly from the other’s wrist unclasping
His hold, he fell. 4 The devil—here’s a streak
Of luck,’ exclaimed the puzzled bullock-driver,
The man must be a madman—or a Lifer.
44 4 Poor devil, anyhow, whatever he is,
God — me, if I don’t just do my best
To help him—ha ! upon his leg I see is
The iron mark If any of the rest
Twig this, I fear his chance right up a tree is ;
He’s fainted—let me open his shirt-breast;
His shoulder marked ?—quick I I must see the
other —
My brother—oh, my lost, my only brother!’
“The other teamsters one by one had yoked up
Their teams, and gone upon their heavy way,
Unwilling steers with saplings had been poked up.,
And every horse-waggon and bullock-dray
Was gone, save one: the road no more was
blocked up
With hundred-guinea loads of native hay,
Or what would to the centre cockles grieve a
Good Templar’s heart, whole cargoes of Geneva.
44 But Charley Simpson’s waggon by the margin
Of the dull pond (’tis now a full-grown lake—
The Council since has gone in for enlarging
The swamp, and steamers ply on it to take
The down-the-harbour picnics, and the charging
Is not immoderate —Cartright, keep awake ;
I see, old fellow, your are still the worse of
That dose, and I 'Will be so d d discursive)—
44 Remained all day unheeded and untended ;
For when his convict-brother once again
Had from the swoon that overthrew him mended,
The teamster fearing that the other men
Would ask too closely whom he had befriended,
Had borne him off to an unhallowed den,
Which flourished where is now fair Sturt-street’s
centre.
Wherein we, too, will make all haste to enter.
A crowded tent—the air within It reeking
With vile expression of all‘beastly thought;
Mad diggers dancing—loose-haired women shriek-
ing.
Wild words of sin that almost would have
brought
A blush of shame the devil’s smoke-dried cheek on;
And in the midst, most fiendish of the lot,
A blear-eyed semi-naked girl was standing,
And drinking from a bottle raised her hand in.
Upon whose body Satyr glances gloated,
And drunken hands drew letters with the lees
Of rum—in Fifty-One the miners doted
On all such airy gaieties as these
The shanty was an evil pest-house, noted
For yielding succour to such refugees
As fled from sight of a policeman’s garb, or
Winced when they heard the words ‘Macquarie
Harbour.’
“ Those times the diggers’ way was set in dangers
Of sudden shot, and unexpected knife,
And half the males here gathered were bush-
rangers
In heart, who lightly valued human life.
The shanty-keeper saw the entering strangers,
And whispering his missus—not his wife —
He said, ‘ Jemima, twig that cove—the farther—
Clear out like h 1—it’s ‘Harry from Port Arthnr.’
“ The hostess, who had many stains of blood on
Her dress, the traces of a recent fight
’Twlxt ‘Cursing Mary’ (who was deemed a
good ’un),
And a frail sister known as * Hell’s Delight,
As one entranced, for half a moment stood on
The floor, and with lips tremulous and white,
She whispered back in low hoarse tone of terror,
* He’ll kill me Billy—make no blooming error,’
“And would have fled, but that her limbs were
shaking
With all the cowardice that chilled her heart.
Till Charley Simpson through the thick crowd
making
His way, a moment called the boss apart,
And said ‘This fellow has been caught house-
breaking,
And lagged—conceal him, will you ? and look
smart;
I’ll make it doubly worth your while, old sonny.
There’s neither of us short of ready money.’
“ In whispers ’twas arranged with small delay, that
The ‘ lag ’ should plant till after midnight’s hour
Where best he could, when by a secret way that
Was only known to him and a few more,
The shanty-keeper through the mounds of clay
that
Fenced round the holes, which, by the hundred
score
Had honey-combed the earth, should himself
. guide him
To where a pal he knew could safely hid e him.
“ The convict stood, while all the uproar went on
Around him, and men drank and women swore.
His head held downward, and his look intent on
The ground, till turning round to seek the door,
His eyes looked into his poor Mary’s, beat on
His face—the eyes he looked into of yore
With tender feelings—but experience hardens,
Ann his was not the look of Cremorne Gardens.
“ A sudden leap there was—a sudden gleaming
Of a long dagger-blade outflashed on high—
A rush of men—a wild afrighted screaming
Of women, and a short, low, deadly cry
From lips through which the crimson tide came
streaming—
A woman lying with fast glazing eye.
And voices (which in these days cheer for Finch-
ham)
Crying, ‘ Drag him out, the murderer, we’ll lynch
him I’
‘“Run, Jim,’ said one, ‘and get your windlass rope
off;
We’ll hang him to the neares tree we find.
Or down the shaft—that’s better. There’s no hope
of
His living, if the rope should be inclined
To break—we’ll fill her up, and then we’ll slope off,
And be can rise again if he’s a mind.
We’ll serve on him a summary ejection,
Which he can argue after Resurrection.”
“ ‘ Then spoke the captive in clear tones unfearing,
‘ My friends, be not so hasty : let me say
Why I have done this deed—I ask a hearing
No mere ; my life is in my hand to pav.
And life to me has not been quite so cheering
That I need ask a moment of delay.
Just let me speak and tell my story. After,
I’m ready for the nearest rope and rafter.
“ ‘ She’s dead enough—’tia Idle to endeavour
To help her now—I’ve spilled her evil blood ;
I think the way I struck her heart was clever.
Although I never, be it understood.
Have murdered until now. No more for ever
Will she ape modesty and maidenhood ;
O that 1 could be mad as to believe her
In my hot youth—the doubly-dammed deceiver.
‘“I met her when her cheek seemed fresh and
blooming
With truth, long years ago, on England’s shore ;
When I had faith, and saw in every woman
A thing next God to cherish and adore.
The world was fair to me, and I was human.
And no love that has ever been before
Was blindfold as the love I poured upon her—
A viper of all baseness and dishonour.
“ ‘From Devonshire I came to London, saying
Farewell to my one brother—this is he I
God help me I when we two were children
praying
At even, by a sainted mother’s knee,
Or through the flowery woods together straying.
Or stealing apples from some guarded tree :
When life was resonant with Joyful laughter,
How could 1 dream it led this curst Hereafter ?
“ ‘ And ’mid the light and gaiety and splendour
Of Cremorne, with the music at its height,
When everything was wrought that could
engender
In youthful hearts wild pulsings of delight,
Her eyes were liquid and her voice was tender.
And I was passionate and void of sight.
And yielding to her beauty’s magle slowly.
She held me meshed within her bonds unholy,
“ ‘ She tore my heart with stories of denial
Of want and weariness and hopeless woe ;
“ A sadden leap there was—a sudden gleaming
of a long dagger-blade outflashed on nigh.”


She plied me with concoctions from the vial
Of black deceit, and made her voice sound low
And broken as it told of bitter trial.
And drooped her eyes, and let their waters flow,
And I, believing, poured eut all my cash in
The harlot’s lap, in innocent compassion.
“ ‘ When all was gone but one last coin, I met her
To say farewell, and cruelly she wept.
And begged me with tear-misted eyes to let her
Have it, the last, to be for ever kept
For my sake, and that 1 might not forget her—
With gracious arts, in which she was adept.
And many times re-echoed hopes and wishes
Gave me a coin, as her own love fictitious.
“ 4 1 went from her, and tried in vain to borrow
Wherewith to help me from the weary town ;
That night I walked the streets, and on the
morrow
I cried ‘ alas I’—(I was a country clown)—
Alas ! that I am forced to feel the sorrow
Of pawning her dear keepsake, but the frown
Of Fortune will not make me less esteem it—
I’ll pawn and joyfully one day redeem it.
“ * The Jew’s eye flashed, I thought, with recog-
nition
Upon the coin, and when I told my tale
Ho bent on me a look of keen suspicion.
While some emotion made his face grow pale ;
Then, in a tone of masterful derision,
He let me know that he was not for sale ;
And while surprise prevented my rejoining.
He had me given into charge for coining.
“ ‘ I told the story simply and sincerely,
Of how I came to have the disc of brass ;
I gave the name of her I loved so dearly.
And prayed them but to send for my sweet lass
To bear it out, at which the Judge was nearly
Convulsed with mirth, and fixing his new glass
In his left eye, he said : ‘ For Life,’ and straight-
way
Upon me closed the awful prison gateway.
“ ‘ But in the stillness of that ghastly prison
I thought of her—that woman lying dead—
Whose face I had imprinted Love’s hot kiss on,
As still an angel, and my soft heart bled
To think that, had some other chance arisen,
My poor dove might have suffered in my stead,
Believing that some wretch, the coin bestowing,
Had cheated her, poor innocent, unknowing.
“ * At last it camo—the day of my departure—
That dread departure in the convict ship,
By-bye, my gallant Devonshire sweetheart,
you’re
Bound outward on a little pleasure trip ;
Hope you’ll enjoy yourself. 1 like the start you’re
Just making.’ There she stood with mocking
lip.
This dead adultress, hemmed with evil sirens,
As I marched past them clanking in my irons.
“ O God I that moment—what a hell outflamiag
Shrivelled my heart, and left it burned and bare.
No after-horror all hell’s records shaming.
No memory of maddening damn’d despair.
No convict-torture past all human naming
Was like the pang that rent my being there.
And lent my life to Vengeance consecrated,
And Hate supreme o’er all I since have hated.
“ How I escaped, or how I wandered hither
It matters nothing—I have kept my oath ;
Bind me and take me now I care not whither.
Death finds Port Arthur men but little loth.’
The diggers almost in one voice cried ‘ Slither,
You and your brother, or they’ll cop you both ;
Sueh death as hers was properly repaid her ;
She’s only fit to be the corpse you’ve made her.’
“ Too late —for One-eyed Billy, who had bounded
Bight through the rotten canvas of the tent
When he beheld the knife, had fled, and sounded
A cry of ‘ murder,’ yelling as he went,
So that by now the shanty was surrounded
By 4 bobbies,’ bent on the accomplishment
Of daring deeds—for used to diggers’ revels,
They thought it but a case of the blue devils.
44 But found instead a spectacle most gory,
And had (an easy duty) to arrest
Harry, who afterwards was hanged (My story
Is nearly through). And Charley gave life best
And died of grief, but the especial glory
Of all’s to come—but I daresay you’ve guessed—
No ?—well, the moral of exceeding weight is—
Tis Otic-cycd Billy now a magistrate is I
♦
Darkness and Silence supervened once more.
Stupor succeeded to the fantastic workings of the
drugged man’s brain. For awhile Stanley lay
motionless, dead to dreams as to realities. But,
anon, the narcotic wrought afresh in his fevered
brain. Again he was dimly conscious of his situa-
tion. The confined space oppressed his senses. A
heavy dread brought beads of perspiration to his
brow. The air seemed pulsing with strong vibra-
tions, as the turgid blood beat in his aching tem-
ples. By degrees these aerial pulsings became de-
fined. They were the flutters of strong wings.
Stanley moaned and writhed. A fierce Eagle
seemed to hover over his prostrate frame, and with
threatening beak to swoop upon him. He quivered
n helpless dread. His limbs fell powerless. He
could not even raise a hand to defend his eyes.
The phantom bird with a scream dashed upon him.
Was this death or mutilation? No; it fluttered
aloft again, and he saw that in its beak it bore
from the little heap another gleaming coin. It
perched on the lintel of the door. Dimmer became
the scene. The bird and the coin became con-
tused, then blended and incorporated; and finally
it was impressed upon Stanley that the object
which straightway began to construct a history
was
An American Eagle.
Is the tremuloso music by the band ? ”
demanded the Eagle, speaking for the coin. “I
presume I have been duly starred in the bills. *
am no slouch of a piece—no ‘ dime,’ ‘ bit,’ or ‘ quar*
ter,’ but an almighty dollar twenty times over
The libra of old Rome, the egina of Greece, the
ducat of proud Venice, the onza of Arragon and
Castille were some punkins; but II—well. I’m the
boss coin of the universe, and hold undisputed
away over a good chunk of this glebe; a great
votatoe, and top of the heap; a But 7 an will
Iiaturally want me to begin my history with an
iccount of my origin, as mortals do. My origin,
hen, is as obscure as your own—a matter for con-
ecture and surmise, and scientific speculation that
nay be truth or may be fable. My first birth,
uiyhow, had nothing to do with polyp or proto-
plasm, and none of my stage., su.gest apes. It
natters not how or in what I had my origin-born,
[ embody all that is good, and pure, and noble. I
am emblematic of worth and rank; a simile on
earth of all that aspires to divinity. I am the
theme of all teachers and preachers; for they can-
not teach, or preach, or write, without me. The
diamond-bah 1 it glitters, it adorns; but it is oj
no use. You cannot work it, er make it of service-
It is only fit to be surrounded by me. It is incap"
able of one of my million potentialities. First
causes ? Well, how I was evolved I don’t know ;
but the result and the work I Cleansed by the
fires of God in His great crucible, I was, from the
first, Gold -yellow, hard or pliable at
man’s greatest desire, man's indispensible servant
and master. I have been used for cannon, and
paid over for peace. I rule and serve, alike nobly*
and like a king. Kings come and go, and leave
pyramids and monuments that, solid and enduring
as they are, cannot tell their purpose or history.
I am Gold, and what more need I say ? So much
for my first birth, and the millions of years or cen
turies I lay hidden in the earth, inert and latent,
yet big with indescribable potentialities. One day a
man brought me to light; unloosed the bonds which
fettered my glories and caged my wild possibilities
—a giant, with a wealth of blonde beard and hair,
and blue eyes. He laughed with careless glee as
he cut my bonds; but he didn’t laugh when, later
at ni. ht, he lay a disfigured corpse on a table in
the shanty of the placer settlement. He had thrown
me to a singing girl on a rough boarded stage—a
tawdry, painted helot, whom he, in his ignorance,
born of isolation and separation from ‘the sea,’
regarded as a Venus, and was shot, going home to
his tent, by a desperate scoundrel, who was under
the impression that he still possessed me. My
father, or liberator, went to the ‘ bone orchard,’
as they irreverently called his last resting-place;
his slayer fled South towards Texas on a stolen
horse, hot pressed by vigilantes, while I stayed to
witness the desolation of my new mistress, who
wept over a weazened Infant until her employer
deftly bested her out of me, so as to help him foot
his poison bill. With the wonderful perspicuity of
Gold, J oould see the awful grief of his victim’s
mother when she learnt that her first-born had
passed from her care, her caresses, her prayers
and hopes and convictions that some day she
would hold her darling first-born in her arms, and
garner the peace of years of anticipation. For
\nyself, I was sent by the trader to the South, in
exchange for cattle, and underwent ‘ life ’ amongst
ranche-owners and desperadoes. Even with them
1 ruled. The knife, the pistol. Judge Lynch him-
self contested my supremacy; but their lawlessness
was naught. I was gold even amongst them. Then
1 got back to Denver, was paid for stores, and so
got on to Washington, and was coined, as ycu see
me now. You can’t realise what coining meant to
me. Oh I but it was rare sport to come into my
kingdom—to reign. Gold as gold is great, but as
coin it wields the mightiest sway. It was a mad
delirium of power. With my fellow kings, I ruled
in Wail-street. I beggered in a day, I enriched in
ab hour. Men wildly worshipped and served me,
and women yielded their charms and their good
names for me. One day hurried into the coffers of an
‘up-town’ ‘brown stone fronted’ speculator, the
next I was thrown into a plate in bogus charity.
1 bought purity, and solaced shame. I reared
mansions; and, stolen, hid in hovels, I convicted
and hanged my possessor in turns; and both got as
legitimate a hold of me—me, their master and lord.
Hither and thither I sped, carrying temporary joy,
lasting sorrow-; denounced, defended, worshipped,
spat upon, paid away as if I were base metal, clung
to till my eagle chokod-thrown, clutched, lavished,
hoarded; the well-spring of every emotion that
curses or blesses men. For a time I was chained
again; dethroned, thrown back into my normal
state; degraded from sovereignty to the rank of
ornament. I was hung on to a watch chain, till, one
night* 1 leaped into We again.”
I “I want to get a message to Piute Canon,” said
“Piute?” asked the clerk; “not on our list.
What county?” . .
“County bo d — dl Its Colorado ; State of
Colorado.’
* which way ? **
“Way of Icy, Bison, Little Bear, Stray Dog
Crook “
The clerk consulted his references.
“To Denver, by Western Union—4 dollars, he
said; “ pony express to Greelyville—7 dollars; mes-
senger to Jackson, and chance storekeeper s mail to
Schneider—prepay 2 dollars 15 cents; two bits a
mile to Bison, boy to the Fork, boat to Stray Dog
—say, 10 dollars to Piute: your risk, and return any
overcharge. Total, 50 dollars; return difference,
if any. first of month.’
“Fifty dollars I I haven’t it,” said the man; 1
have but forty.” Then, as.’flngering me in his em-
harassment, the idea came to him to make me
minister to his needs, and he wrenched me from
the that bound me, and threw me ringing on
the counter. ,,
“ Defaced com, you know, remonstrated the
Cl “]J-nit,” the man impatiently rejoined. “ You
see it’s life or death. Start it off, it has a long way
*°‘‘^AJbright,’’ said the clerk, “if it is objected to,
I’ll take it myself.” „
“ Right, pard, or better still,” said the other.
‘Do I Took like a man that would go back on you
for twenty ? Keep it till I come round. Take my
name down—Frank Maxwell.” . _
“‘Mine is Jefferson,’ said the clerk. ‘Tony
Jefferson. I room at the Harvey House on Bleeker,
near Fourth Avenue. Come and see me. I like
your looks.’ . ,.
In a few minutes there went speeding over the
Western Union Company’s wire towards the wild
West, a message thus
“ To Edward Harman,
“ Piute Canon,
“ Colorado.
‘ Come quickly. Life or death.
Frank Maxwell.’
Tony Jefferson was making up his cash, in which
I had been replaced by another piece, preparatory
to being relieved, when a rough black-bearded
man entered the office, and said
“ Say, mister, can I send a message from here to
Denver?” , , , ,, , .„
“ Yes, sir, we collect and deliver at the depot it
for Denver, and beyond that we charge express
rates for specials or expresses.”
“ Oh, you go beyond ?”
“ We take the message and do our best,,but
incur no liability.”
“ Can you get Bison or Little Bear Fork ?”
“ Can’t guarantee ; but we collect special rates
and instruct express agents and post-masters.’
“ Well,’ said the man, ‘ send two. I ain’t good at
the pen.” ., m
“ To whom and where ? said Tony.
“ First to Jackson Vaught, miner, Denver. He
is leaving Piute for New York. Say— ‘ no,’ ” hastily
correcting himself—“ say ‘ watch.’ ”
“ And the other ?” he asked. .
“ToCarioll, saloon-keeper, Little Bear: He is
coining. Arrived here, all u.p.’ That’ll do —how
much ?”
Must collect 40 dollars, and return any over-
charge. Call first of month.’
“That’sstiff,” said the sender; “but here’s the
spons’’—putting down two of my fellow-pieces.
“• Name of sender ?’asked Tony.
“The man hesitated, and then said, hastily—
“ Put Margetti, Antonio Margettl.”
Tony Jefferson took the coins and held them in
his hands, as he thought over the strange coinci-
dence. “ Little Bear, the Fork, Piute, Denver !
Both messages palpably were on the same subject.
What would he do? Delay the second message?
No, that would not do. Such a thing is never for-
given in An erica. He acted promptly. In a mi-
nute a memo, was sent up by the pneumatic tube
-‘Add to message Frank Maxwell to Edward
Harman, Piute Canon, Colorado, vU Denver :—
»• Beware Little Bear Fork.” Charge Tony Jeffer-
son, receiver, Thirty-second-street office.’ Then,
his relief coming in, he handed over his cash and
dockets, and went home to the Marshall House,
on Blecker near Fourth Avenue.”
e » •
Tony Jefferson was a smart man, who had
seen a deal of life in the States. The Western
Union Company employ many such as he—shrewd
men of business, capable of doing a lot of work
deftly, and without mistake. He thought a good
c eal at his evening meal, of the sender of the first
message to the West that afternoon, to whom he
had taken a fancy; and he was pondering over the
two telegrams, and what the effect of his addition
might be, when he went out to do a round of the
thmtres, to which, of course, he had access.
Standing at the door of the standard Theatre
Wi a man—well, even gaudily, dressed—smoking a
frsgrant Havanna cigar, and tapping his pantaloon
legs with a stylish cane.
“Any news, Cap. ?” asked Tony.
Fou ought to know best,” said the theatrical
agent; “we get it all through your office, I
reckon/’
‘Gilbert Wright gets hold of a lot that don’t
come through our wires, or any other,” said Tony.
“How’s the house?” , .. .... , ,
‘ Don’t foot a thousand,” said Wright: “the lode
is about petered out, and we must up stakes for
the West and see if we can’t strike pay gravel
there.”
“ Amy Bell go with you ? ”
“ Amy Bell 1 As if you haven't heard?
“What?” _ „
“Amy Bell was arrested for murder yesterday.
“ Murder ?” said Tony, aghast.
“Yes, she was put in the Tombs yesterday before
rehearsal; but we were given poppy cock-told
that she was not well. Last night we had to make
an apology for her, but to-day it leaked out.
“I didn’t see it in the papers,” said Tony.
“ Well, the Tribune got hold of it ahead of the
other journals, as usual, and have had an extra,
out about it. Didn’t you hear the boys crying it ?
“No; I came along Third Avenue, and down
Thirty-third, so I wasn’t in their way. But what
are the particulars ?”
“ Wal,” said Wright, “it appears a miner came
down from a place palled Piute, away near Denver,
Colorado, and somehow Amy got acquainted with
him. He had a dead heap of dust; and all that we
know is she is accused of pistolling birr the night
before last—sometime during the night, that is.
Theodore Moss went down to the Tombs as soon as
he heard of it, but the City Marshal would only let
Amy speak to him in his presence. She was ter-
ribly cut up, and could only say that the man aid
come down, and called on her from a miner named
Harman—Edward Harman—with a lot of dust and
securities.”
“ Harman ? ” said Tony.
“ y es,” went on the agent; you seem to take a
good deal of stock in the thing. It was a present,
she says; but against that a man named Antoi-
n*“ A dark, swarthy fellow, with a black beard ?’’
“ How in h—1 would I know ? said Wright. I
didn’t see him. How do you know anything about
jj0r
“ Go on,” said Tony, impatiently.
“This Antoinetti says he got a letter from the
miner apprising him of the despatch of the gold,
and giving him the address of Amy Bell. He went
there, heard an altercation, and lots of chin music,
then a shot, whereupon he went for the
officers, and with them returned te Amj a
house in Twenty-fourth street, and t here-
found the body, and Amy crying over it
like mad. They say the case is very strong
against her. The letter in the man’s possession
tells her of the gold, and distinctly says it would
be in Amy’s charge; and how could he have known
it if he hadn’t been told to fetch it i
“ But,” said Tony, “ it may be a forgery, and the
sender may be able to clear Amy—she is not the
kind of hair-pin to pistol people.
“ Well,” rejoined the other, the miner has been
wired to, and will be on the road ” . ,
A light flashed across Tony, and lit up his imagi-
nation as one sees everything during a flash of
lightning. , . .
“ Who wired for him so soon? he asked,
“ Why, the City Marshal, of course.
“Aye, and two others,” said Tony. I take a
hand in this game. That bob-tailed car goes near
Central-street, don’t it ?” „
“ Yes,” said Gilbert Wright, but what — ?
Before the question could be fairly put, Tony had
jumped on the tram-car and was off down town.
I, lying as I did in Tony’s pocket, knew. Amy
Beil, and had with heaps of others been in her
possession. Amy Bell was a popular American
actress-an actress with a history, so everybody
said, although nobody knew anything of it. bhe
was good-looking, not to say beautiful, clever,
eccentric, fond of display, and spotless in reputa-
tion. Even the world gave her credit for virtue,
for she had outwitted and exposed more than one
professional lecher and roue. She held that woman
was man’s equal so long as she held him at a dis-
tance ; and though she enjoyed the society of the
other sex with far more freedom than most of her
own do, the relationship was never misunderstood
or misconstrued. Her talents, her jewellery, her
horses, and, better still, her charity, exercised m a
thousand ways, and the noble assistance she had
rendered less fortunate women than herself, made
her a popular idol. But then she was, and always
had been, to some extent, an adventuress; and the
world requires less evidence against a woman who
chooses to keep her antecedents to herself than it
would deem sufficient to convict a ‘ respectable
member of society—respectable because it knows
all about them. , . , . , _ ..
Tony Jefferson was puzzled how to act. oatis-
fled as he was that the telegrams he received for
transmission had something to do with the case, he
could not see how he could utilise the information
in Amy’s behalf. He felt certain she was innocent,
and longed to vindicate her character, but he
feared to spoil his chances by imparting his secret
to others, especially the officers of justice, whose
perspicuity, and even good faith, in many in*
stances, he had good reason to doubt.
While reflecting, as he sat in the car, he thought
of the sender of the first message—Frank Maxwell.
The very idea. Maxwell found, he would at least
know how far the one message bore on the affair.
He was now about abreast of the Aster House,
and, throwing himself back to the requisite angle,
he alighted from the tram, and went up to the
Herald office. Going first to the public counter,
he tore a slip from a heap, and wrote—“Frank
Maxwell, who deposited a message at the Western
Union Company’s office, on the ilth inst., for Piute,
by way of Denver (Col.), please communicate with
T. Jefferson, Receiving Clerk;” and wrote under—
“Slip to Sun, Times, and World.” Then paying
for the whole, he walked to the side door leading
to the reporting and editorial department. The
janitor demurred to his entrance at first, but, on
his saying ‘Western Union,’ he stood back, and
Tony walked up the stairs to where the busy bees
of the Press were engaged preparing the usual
amount of enlightenment for the morning. The
scene was a busy one. Members of Congress and
the Senate were seeking the rooms of the associate
editors; reporters hurried hither and thither with
slips of manuscript and letterpress—there was the
click of instruments, denoting the receipt and
despatch of messages; the summoning of messen-
gers, and all the decorous hubbub of a big news-
paper office. Making his way through the main
room, Tony came to a half-opened door, on which
was painted “ Dramatic Editor’s Staff,” and ad-
vancing to one of the desks, touched a man on the
shoulder. , ..... „
“ Hullo, Tony,” said the reporter, what sup?
Anything fresh ? Very busy Just now.”
“ Amy Bell’s case ? ” asked Tony.
“ Of course,” said the other.
“Who’s got it. Max?” ...
“"Well, my chief, so far as the theatrical part
goes; but the ase Itself is in the hands of the
‘item’ boss; and the editorial contingent are
waning in, too, you bet. It isn’t every day we get
such a bonanza.”
“ I should like to see Schuyler,” said Tony.
“Well,” said the other, “if you wish to do se
particularly, and can let him know anything. I’ll
take you to him; but he’s up to his eyes in work.
“I don’t think he’ll grudge me a few minutes
when he hears what I’ve got to say.”
“All right,” said Max; and they went into the
inner room, first knecking at the door, and getting
permission.
“ Mr. Schuyler,” said his subordinate, this is Mr
Jefferson, from the western Union Co.’s office : he
wants to say a word or two about the Amy Bell
case. Can you spare him a few moments ?”
* Why, certainly, sir.’ said Mr. Schuyler, who was
a keen, penetrating looking man, whose fiat was
law with New York audiences, and whose criti-
cisms were valued accordingly,
"I presume Mr. Jefferson |has something perti-
nent to say, and will not unnecessarily occupy my
time, which is very valuablejust now. Takeaseat,
sir. Mr. Kohn, I must have some ‘pars’ respect-
ing Miss Bell’s first appearance in New York. 1
am positively informed that she sang and danced
at some of the dive concert rooms before she went
on the dramatic stage. Hunt up Mr. Tony Pastor,
Mr. Harrigan, and everybody likely to giye us
some reliab'e information. Take a had,, and
let me have something authentic < r plausible. I
will keep that portion ot the narrative open till I
see you again. Now, sir.” ....
Tony faced the scrutinising gaze of the mighty
journalist.
“ What do you know of this affair ?” asked Mr
Schuyler.
Tony briefly told him of the two messages, and
his addition.
“Good,’ ’ said Mr Schuyler, “you acted like a little
man, and a smarWone,” and going to his Wheatstone
instrument he ticked out— T ‘ To the Chief of Police
or Officer in Charge—The Tombs. Please describe
He wrenched me from the ring that hound me, and threw me, ringing, on the counter.


accurately and minutely the appearance of the
man accusing: Miss Amy Bell.” “ I have asked
for the appearance of this Antoinettl, and
if it tallies with that of the man who
lodged the messages to the Jackson Voght and
Carioli, it will give him away dead.”
“ Could we have those two men secured by
wiring to Denver?” asked Tony.
“Too late,” said Mr. Schuyler, “and besides it
won’t be a good thing to let our Information get
to the police too soon. If we can bull-doze this
fellow, we shall keep ahead of the game. But I’ll
call Mr. Shaw, the head of the item staff; he’s a
better ferret than all the detectives.” And Mr.
Shaw was sent for, and came somewhat reluctantly,
for he was deep in the case. As soon, however, as
he heard Tony’s narrative briefly repeated by his
fellow-journalist, he did not grudge the time.
“ Those messages,” he said, “ were all on the
same business, you can gamble on that. It’s too
late, as Mr. Schuyler says, to do anything in the
West. This Harman will have left, and either
Sassed Little Bear or have got goes from Messrs,
arloli and Jackson Voght. We must try and
secure or watch the gentleman here without
exciting his suspicions.”
Just at this moment the instrument impatiently
“ called,” and Mr. Schuyler read off:—
“Medium height, dressed in ill-fitting over-coat,
over diny red shirt, store trousers, and thick
boots, black felt hat, swarthy face, bushy black
beard shaved oil upper part of cheek, peculiar
twitch in mouth and left eye.”
“ 'i he same,” said Tony, " a photograph. That’s
the man.’
“There’ll be trouble for Mr. Antoinetti,” said
Mr. Shaw, sententiously. “ Let us go down to the
Tombs, and I will form some plan of procedure on
the way.”
• • •
On the road between Piute and Little Bear Fork—
a beautiful, albeit wild scene. The Bison River
rushed wildly through crevices and ravines, and
over bold rocks—through tangled undergrowth
and small sage bush plains, on its way to join the
Little Bear, that looked like a thread woven amidst
resinous pines. The ground in many places was
turned over, and masses of yellow clay with
remains of windlasses and decaying dam timber
studded the roadside.
It was a lovely morning; the scent of wild
flowers mingled with the peculiar but grateful
terebyntine odour of the pine trees, and the sweet
smell of virgin earth repaying the rain of yester-
night for its favours.
A man rode down a ravine, carefully scrutiniz-
ing the road before him, and the brush and thicket,
or chapparal, beside; it —a determined-looking,
brawny man, with blonde hair and beard, and a
strong arm, terminating in a nervous muscular
hand, that held a navy Colt. When he had to pass
any place where an enemy might lurk, he did so at
a smart hand-gallop: and, where practicable, he
left the track and cut across the bush—but this
was not often.
Presently, adown the road, watching, it might
be, for a passer-by, or a likely hiding-place, he saw
two men, one dark, and picturesquely dressed—
evidently an Italian; and the other, an American,
raw-boned, high in the cheek, gaunt, restless of
eye—a Western man. In a moment he put spurs to
his steed, and was with them.
“ Morning,” he said, curtly.
“Ah, Signor—that is, Mr. Harman,” said the
foreigner, “good morning. The weather looks
fine, is it not ? ”
“It is fine,” said Harman. “Are you looking
for me?”
“No,” broke in the other, “not exactly looking
for you; but we thought we might meet you.”
“ Why ? ” asked the other.
“ The boy of express he say you expect to visit
the East.”
Harman knew this was a lie; the boy had gone
up beyond Piute.
“Ah,” he said, “ you wish to speak to me ? ’
“Certainly, of assurety,” said the Italian, suavely,
“as a, like you call it, neighbour, we would the
commission from Denvaire and the East.”
“ We can talk it over at the saloon,” said Harman.
The Italian looked up with lightning quickness,
and, seeing Harman’s gaze fixed on him, glanced
down again, and waved his hand in the direction
of the path.
“ Thanks,” said the other drily, “ after you, and
mind if your pistol chafes you, put up with it; if
you go fooling wit h it, mine might go off.” And,
seeing the third pai’ty inclined to lag, he said te
him, pointedly, “I’ll bring up this deputation. 1
guess we ll proceed.” The Italian exchanged one
electric glance with his friend, and took the lead,
laughing at the “drollery of the Ingelese.”
In the order named the party arrived at Carioli’s
Saloon, a little above the Fork. Once a deliriously
thriving place, the Fork hostelry was, since the
working out of the “placers,” a tumble-down
adobe shanty, ill appointed and grimy, scarcely
furnished, beyond a rude bar ann a dining-room in
the rear. They dismounted, the miner keeping a
sharp watch, as he hung his horse’s bridle to a tree
rail on a hitching post at the door. So they went
into the dining-room, Harman still keeping his
companions before him.
Carioli pointed politely to a chair, composed of a
slab with three sticks driven into it. The miner
did not accept the proffered civility, but with his
hand in his pocket stood up and spoke.
“ You looked for me this morning ?”
The Italian held his hands up deprecatingly.
“ You looked for mo,” Harman repeated, ‘ and
this gentleman,” motioning the other with his left
hand, “ was with you—For what purpose ?”
“ For what purpose ?” echoed the Italian.
“Murder, I should say,” said Harman. “For
some fell purpose you sought my life.”
“ Perche ?” snafued out the Italian. “ Have you
dust or money ? Caramba.”
“Very likely not, but still you looked for me,
and murder was your purpose. You knew I was
coming, or likely to come ; for,” he added, facing
the two, “ you were apprised of it from the Bast,
from New York.
“ Bah 1 ” said Carioli.
“ There is something there affecting the girl to
life or death.”
“ What would we seek of the girl ?” demanded
the Yankee, speaking for the first time during the
interview.
“ It is a mystery yet,” answered Harman, “ but
you know she Is there and in danger. You know
how I sought to enrich her.”
“I know of nothing,” sullenly growled the
Italian.
“You lie, J ’ said Harman; “when you accom-
panied me and found her with me in San Francisco,
you know what the future purpose of my life
would be.”
“I knew you wanted the girl,” returned the
other.
“ To place her above want—to enrich her, if
possible.”
“ Carissima Bella; yes, she is tempting.”
“ Not in your foul way.”
“How?” cried the Italian. “You accuse, you
quarrel—you witness, Voght, the Signor Ingelese
seeks strife—look to him,” and Carioli sprang
forward.
Voght jumped to one side so as to put Harman
off his aim, while the Italian started for his pistol
hand, and would have caught it ; but at that
moment he was seized, for vigilantes sprang in by
the door and window, and the two were quickly
thrown down and bound.
“Thanks, gentlemen,” said Harman. “I will
not stop longer, but speed forward for Bison, and
catch the boat and hurry on for the East; every
moment is precious. Good-bye, till we meet again.
ft *
In an ill-lighted room in the vicinity of Five Points
lay Frank Maxwell. There was no necessity for
the two ill-favoured men who sat by the side of his
stretcher to guard him, for his appearance showed
that he was incapable of action.
“Have a drink?” asked one,: as he t opened his
eyes languidly.
He motioned the proffered cup away in terror.
“Oh, you can take it,” said the donor, “ this is all
right and no poppy-cock.”
Soon after, the man known as Antoinettl entered.
“ Woke up ?” he asked, pointing to the recum-
bent figure.
“ Yes, a while ago.”
“ Say anything ? ”
“No; looks pretty bad.”
. “ I should think he would, the dose he got. I
wonder it didn’t put a head on him altogether.”
‘‘Did you see the advertisement in the papers
this morning 1 ? ” asked the third man.
“No,” said Antoinettl, eagerly. “About this
affair?”
“ Bet yer life.”
“ Show me.”
The other gave, and he took the paper.
Santa Maria ! there is more danger about this
than I thought. How the devil did anyone suspect,
anything ? ”
“ Are you sure this fellow was on the track ? ”
“ Sure as death. Why wire Harman ? why say
evidence to clear the girl would soon be forth-
coming ? I’d bet a slug to a nickel he would have
given us all away dead—got us all sent up to Black-
weUs, if we hadn’t put up this job on him. I
reckon this Mr. Harman will never see Denver.
Canoli’s as 'teat a shot as ever drew a bead with a
derringer; and there’s Mr. Yoght, whom I haven’t
the honour of knowing personally-but I’ll wager
he s one of the boys, and can handle a weapon.”
“What are we to do with him ? ” asked tne man,
with a nod in the direction of Maxwell.
Well,” said Antoinetti, “it’s somewhat of a
puzzler. I only want to keep him from ehinnin’;
and once we get the papers, he might just talk so
long as we have the stamps, because we’d vamoose
the ranche, and mosey along pretty sharp, but, in
the meantime, his jawbone mustn’t wag, and that
settles it. Yousavey?”
“ One—one—one,” stammered the other, hesitat-
ing to name the word.
One murder’s enough, you mean ? ” said An-
toinetti. “ Well, you hav’n’t much of a choice of
terms, and! agree "ith you: but if there’s another
to be did, it must be done—that’s the kind of hair-
pin I am. Now, you keep a good look-out; he
won’t want more than a little moral suasion for
some hours, a' any rate. I’ll go down about the
Tombs, and see how the land lies, and come back.”
And the swarthy gentleman walked up the stairs,
and out by the door, first peering out to see if
there was anybody about.
There was no one that he could see; but, after
he had gone up the street, a muffled man crept out
of the next doorway, and followed him at a dis-
tance.
• • •
Messrs. Schuyler and Shaw had a consultation
with Tony .Jefferson, and it was agreed to wait any
turn that events might take. One thing Tony
suggested, viz., watching for a telegram from
Harman, who might possibly apprise Maxwell of
his coming, if he escaped the snare laid for him.
Tony was right. A message did come, and, by
permission of the General Manager, is was given to
them. It simply said—“ Escaped the Forks; push-
ing on Burlington and Quincy, Michigan Central,
Great Western, and Erie,” indicating the route he
would take.
“ We must be at the Ferry station,” said Mr.
Shaw; “and, in the meantime, this Antoinetti must
be watched, and never left. You can identify him,
but it is only Harman who can outwit him to our
purpose.
The preliminary case against Amy Bell—a formal
taking of the evidence—was heard at the Central
Court; the only witnesses being Antoinetti and
the officers he had called after hearing the shot
fired, and who found the body and Amy crying
over it.
One suspicious circumstance did not escape the
notice of the City Marshal. T here were no servants
about at the time of the murder, and the fact was
not explained.
Amy Bell reserved her defence, and was com-
mitted to take her trial; bail, of course, being
refused
• •
Heaven knows how slowly the time passed
between the despatch of Harman’s telegram from
Denver and his arrival in New York. There was,
of course, no means of communicating with him
on the way, and so far as he was concerned nothing
could be done. The idea of watching Antoinetti,
however, was acted upon, though it was a difficult
task to get at his haunts. He was so clever at
avoiding followers, and soon realised the fact that
he was subject to surveillance. He would turn up
»t the police station to enquire if more evidence
had been elicited, and in the most nonchalant
manner stroll down to the quays or places of
public resort, till opportunity was afforded him to
slip off and defy pursuit.
Tony Jefferson resumed his duties at the Western
Central branch, but went to and from there con-
stantly prepared for something nefarious. That
he was followed he was quite aware, but he let his
spies know by the gleam of a pistol-barrel and
never-ceasing vigilance that he was not the man
to be trapped. He had me, the Mighty Twenty-
dollar, suspended to his chain, often the fashion
of opulent and would-be opulent American
citizens, trusting that something would come of
my exhibition as mnch as for the sake of my
owner, who had in the brief interview so interested
him.
Mr. Shaw’s emissaries gradually came to the
knowledge that Antoinetti and his gang intended
immediate action. What the decisive move in
contemplation was, their informant could not tell;
for though he was to some extent in their service
it was only in the capacity of assistant towards
the flight of the principals. So far as could be
ascertained, the projected ruse consisted of the
gang possessing themselves by some daring coup
of the papers, which once in their grasp, would
?ive them the money forwarded by Harman. So
ar as they knew, these were held by the police 1
authorities, who had not disclosed the nature and
purport of the documents found on the body of
the murdered man. Failing- success, Antoinetti
and three others of the gang would take flight in a
schooner bourd for the South.
Tho day prior to the arrival of the train which,
the time-tables showed, would bring Harman, the
whole plans of Tony Jefferson and his party seemed
to be frustrated. Tho HtBAUD, the day before,
received intelligence of the capture and lynching
of two desperadoes, named Cirioliand Voght, in
the Piute country, near the Little Fork of the
Bison River. The conductors, at the instigation
of Mr. Shaw, had suppressed the information, con-
tenting themselves with promising “startling dis-
closures ” at the proper time; but their con*em
noraries got wind of the a lair, and published the
news, with the usualflorld accompaniments-a tew
lines of telegrams being extended into numberless
columns of “ full, true, and particular accounts,”
“demeanour of the doomed men,” “the masked
tragedy,” ‘‘awful fate of two desperadoes.” etc.,
etc.
Although the accounts contained no allusion to
the connection of Amy Bell’s case with the affair,
thev knew that Antoinetti and his fellow scoun-
drels would immediately be aware that the frus
tration of their designs in the West would lead to
Harman’s appearance on the scene; and they feared
that the Intelligence would result in their decamp-
ing, and carrying away such proceeds of their
villainy as they had already secured.
Antoin'-tti, however, showed up, as usua 1 , in his
accustomed haunts, and paid his visits to places of
interest, apparently unconcerned.
Secret as he was, however, he had been tracked
to a house in the Bowery; and application was
made for a posse of police to be in readiness at a
moment’s notice, should there be any indications
of his flight, or putting into execution the pro-
jected move.
• a •
Amy Bell’s friends waited with uneasy expecta-
tion the arrival of the train that would bring Fd-
ward Harman. There was a difficulty in identifying
and coming into communication with him, wn hout
advertising for him—and thereby spoiling all—at
first insurmountable; but it was overcome by a
simple ruse of Mr. Shaw’s. An agent was despatched
to Buffalo, who, armed with the proper authority,
caused all the conductors at that station to inquire
at the carriage doors, before the passengers
alighted, whether a gentleman named Harman,
from Piute, was on board. It succeeded admir-
ably, and hp was brought on by a special as quickly
as the business of the line would permit; constant
communication being kept up by wire.
At last the time arrived, and with it the man.
Harman was briefly told of the occurrence I have
narrated, and was, of course, thunderstruck. H
confirmed the suspicions and surmises of the
party, and told them as much of his reasons for
sending the money and papex - s to Amy as was
necessary for the purpose.
There was no time for needless explanation. The
amateur detective reported a crisis—Antoinetti
and his confederates, deeming the attempt to obtain
possession of the papers too hazardous in face of
the imminent danger of detection, had resolved on
flight, and were to meet at the Bowery rendezvous
Thither, in a closed hack, drove the party, while
information was forwarded for the police to
assemble in the neighbourhood and await develop-
ments, and, having procured the requisite autho-
r ty, they were accompanied by Amy Bell.
• •
Down in the Bowery—the Alsatia of New York,
now transmogrified and cleansed until it retains
no trace of its once Infamous character—Antoi-
netti had long had his head-quarters. The neigh-
bourhood was vile, and possessed scarcely a
reputable inhabitant. Itinerants of all classes—
gamblers, counterfeiters, confidence men, sneaks,
thieves, bogus cripples, bummers, whisperers,
vevers, hoodlums and the scum and outcasts of
the bigcity—generally festered there in spite of all
efforts of the authorities 1 o dislodge them or bring
them under supervslon. Antoinetti was chief of an
organisation, whose nefarious ramifications spread
over the whole of the continent where anything
Illegal was to be done—from forging a will or
looting treasure, to robbing a grave or stealing a
child The gangs had confederates in all parts of
the Union, and knew and profited by a variety of
swindles and social corruptions, many of them
done under the name and by the aid of the law. It
was, In fact, an imperinm in imperio— another
power—the recognition of the infamous con-
federacy being incumbent upon the authorities,
partly for purposes of detection of crime in
general, and partly by reason of the danger and
difficulty of dealing with the monstrous evil and
ti e chief offenders. Lest this seemingly abnormal
state of things, or its existence, be denied, any of
my golden prototypes, in even well-governed Aus-
tralia, could tell you that in any and every large
city there exist organisations of t ie same charac-
ter, and that the police rub shoulders daily with
very many of them, whom they know beyond
doubt to be preying on the honest portion of the
community, and living by tho commission of
crime. In one of the darkest recesses of this
Alsatia, Antoinetti met in consultation with mem-
bers of his gang. He had entered as they were hold-
ing revel, drinking deeply, and indulging in the
national game of poker.
The meeting was stormy from the start, for the
chief had commenced with a protest against his
officers ‘getting full ’ on pizen, and ‘ beating’ one
another over a stinking game of herds, to looking
after their business.
Give you a horn of whisky,” he said, “and
enough to keep yer carcases together, and that’s
all yer want.”
“You’re putting on spring style, boss,” said a
big, burly man ; “ would you mind hiring a hall,
and delivering this lecture under the auspices of a
bureau, so that we may know why we can't have
a friendly game of kerds and a smile in leisure
hours?”
“Cards and whisky,” growled Antoinette “and
here’s the most important job we had this fall
likely to go up the flume box for want of atten-
tion.”
“ What in hell are you jawboning about ?” asked
a wiry rufiian with a slice out of his cheek, and
only one ear. “Haint we fixed it up that this
Amy Bell business is too risky to spekilate on just
now ? The thing’s blown—given away dead—an
we ain’t going to put on our angel over a sure
goner.”
“Everything caves in the moment you’re tack
led,” said Antoinetti “there’s no spunk in you, nc
vim.”
“ H 1 not ?” retorted the other. “ I’ll bet my
boots I’ve shown more grit when there’s beei
risky business to do, than you ; but you can
cram me about this job. It may suit your bookt o
go in up to the handle, but there’s nothing ini
for us. You’ll have your share of the gold, an
when this Western man turns up, you’d better get
up and dust a bit.”
“ Booh,” said Antoinetti; “he hasn’t turned up.
and isn’t likely to. Every train from the West is
watched, and he’ll be put away before he can
trouble us. My idea, even now, is to go for the
papers. It’s risky, certainly, but this fellow Har-
man out of the way, I’d undertake to get the
bonds negociated for a discount, and we’d net
fifty thousand dollars ker-slap,
• ♦ m
While this conversation was going on, another
party was assembled in a house not far off, com-
posed of a posse of police, Tony Jefferson and his
literary friend, Amy Bell, and the man from the
West. A consultation was held between the act-
ing head of the officers and his men, while the
chief heard the tale of Harman and the actress.
In a tew words the former convinced him that the
tale of Antoinetti was false, and the whole affair
a plot on the part of a gang to get rid of him and
the actress in order to possess themselves of his
hardly-earned gains.
The police authorities had some misgivings as to
the success of their contemplated raid upon the
den, in consequence of the watch they kept, and
the difficulties to be contended with, owing to the
power and ’cutencss of their quarry. In the
middle of the preparation, a scout brought word
that Antionetti had gone to the rendezvous, and
advised a move, as it was possible that he might
take his departure and seek flight. The party,
therefore, marched out quickly ; ahd before their
advent was known, or could be prevented, dashed
into the room-several officers, covering the occu-
pants before they could have recource to their
pistols.
Taken entirely by surprise, they threw un their
hands as directed.
“ Antoinetti Servia alias Antoine Serviette alias
Severn alias Margetti,” said the chief, “I arrest
you on a charge of murder in the first or second
degree, as evidence may bear out the accusation ;
robbery and conspiracy—and you, his confeder-
ates, with aiding and abetting him.”
Antoinetti, who, for the first few moments had
been taken so much aback as to be incapable of
action, soon recovered his self-possession.
“It’s easy,” he said, “for a pretty girl to bull-
doze the New York police. This comes of taking
tbe stand against an actress ; but try as you will,
the evidence will be too strong for you.”
“Will it;” said Harman, facing the scoundrel,
“not with me to settle the account. Look you,
there is another name you have borne, * The Wild
Rancher,’ and when you bore it —twenty-one years
ago—you foully murdered William Harman, of
Piute.”
“Great God,” said the accused; “ you came to
life again 1
“No,” answered the other; “but I am your
vict m’s brother, who, hearing in England of his
death, came out, determined some day or anothe •
to find his murderer. This girl is his daughter.”
At this moment one of the police, who had
peered into the adjacent room, discovered and
brought’out poor Frank Maxwell, looking wild and
haggard, but evidently recovering.
At the sight of him, Tony Jefferson rushed for-
ward. “Tbe man who lodged the message!” he
said—“here is your twenty-dollar piece; see, I
have had it mounted again.”
“Give it to her,” said Maxwell, motioning tc
Amy Bell, who had almost fainted at the sight of
him—“to my darling.”
Tony took me, and with the chain to which I was
attached tenderly placed me round the neck of the
actress.
This scene had the effect of suddenly distracting
the attention of the police ; and Antoinetti, who
had turned livid, by a dexterous movement drew
his pistol, crying, “ The game is up, but your
triumph, Harman, shall be short,” fired from bis
side, and sent a bullet home to the breast of poor
Amy Bell. In a moment he was riddled, but fbe
first shot that made him throw up his arm with a
wild imprecation came from the pistol of Edward
Harman. They gathered round the prone form of
the beautiful girl, Maxwell kneeling with a despair
worse than all his previous sufferings—to find that
J, who in my second birth had robbed my parent
of life, had saved that of his child—the bullet of
the would-be assassin had struck the golden eagle.
Perhaps it was directed so by Providence; perhaps
the expert with the pistol could not help aiming
for a mark, even in so hurried a shot, and I at-
tracted his gaze lying on that fair bosom,
So I took and saved life, and the expiation con-
ferred a wealth of happiness, and for once in my
life I was the means of conferring unalloyed
happiness, need I say more f
+
The Eagle seemed to soar away, uttering a screech
which jarred upon the nerves of the captive. He
turned uneasily from side to side, and muttered.
Presently, however, his mood changed, and an un-
canny merriment seized upon him. He grinned and
chuckled; he giggled and guffawed; and while he
was in this phase of delirium, his hand fell upon a
battered old coin, with a Spanish inscription,
which instantly slipped from his grasp and flat-
tened itself against the wall. In its expanding
disc appeared a picturesque scene, A lovely Isle,
bordered with palms, with beach of silvery sand,
high upon which was stranded an antique wreck,
with sculptured poop and lofty stem, still i esisting
deciy—a derelict of ages past. Clambering on th®
wreck was a grizzled man, in the dress of a sailor
of to-day. His hands were full of coins such as
the one on the wall. A gleam of romance flitted
across the mind of Stanley, but his altered mood
prevailed ; and the grizzled sailor suddenly stepped
forward, as if to the footlights of a stage, and,
with many an antic and grimace, sang as follows
There is a speck on the ocean vast,
A dot on the waters blue.
In the South Pacific (to be specific).
The Island of Chuckarnaroo.
And on a chain of rugged reefs.
Some distance from the land,
A British barque one night so dark
Went down with ev’ry hand !
Went down with ev’ry hand, I say.
Into the roaring main;
And only one—Mark Antony Bun —
E’er saw the surf ce again.
This wight struck out with lusty limb,
Amidst the ocean roar;
And though waves did seethe, by the skin of his
teeth
He reached the distant shore.
He lay him down all dripping in
A stala ffitish grot.
And took his “ doss ” on a bed of moss
So soon his sorrows forgot.
But, when the morning broke, he rose
And grimly scratched his head; j
Vigilantes sprang in by the door and window, and the two were quickly bound.


And, looking about with an air of doubt.
Thus mournfully he said :—
“ The poor old Polly’s cast away,
My messmates, too, are gone,
And only me, a poor A.B.,
Is left alone to mourn.
And here am I on an unknown isle,
That swarms. I’ll pound, with blacks,
A poor Exile that’s got no tile,
Nor yet no ankle-jacks.
“ When I think of the captain, oh,
The tear starts in my eye;
For my jack-knife, too, and suit of blue,
I fain must ever sigh.
The bosen, ah. I loved him well;
The mate, I’d known him long;
But what 1 loved best was the camphor chest
I made when in Hongkong.
“ My * navy-plug ’ is swelled as big
As the steward’s carpet-bag;
And so for tobacco I’ll be a lacker
Like any Portland lag.
The fancy mat for Wapping Sue
I worked in worsted bright,
I’m sore afeared has disappeared
For ever from my sight.
“ My inside has a hollow sound,
’Tig empty when I thump it;
And unless I feed on the rank sea-weed.
All a hung’ring I must stump itl
No inviting twinkle of luscious winkle,
Or whelk, does meet my eye;
And though I’m a dab at catching a crab,
I see none passing by!
“ When Crusoe, in the picture-book,
Like me was cast away,
I call to mind he used to find
A lot of things each day.
Jam, rafts and money, if you please.
And goats, the lucky elt !
Oh, couldn’t I,” poor Bun did cry,
“Just do a goat myself.”
Then manfully he rose, and gave
The sea a loving glance,
And with a shout he quick stepped out,
And left the rest to ch mce.
But ere he had proceeded far.
He staggered back with fright;
For, lo, a lady, of colour shady.
Had straightway hove in sight.
Spell-bound he crouched behind a tree,
And as she came along,
The dusky dear, in voice so clear,
Did carol forth this song:—
“ To touch the merry mandolin
Is ever my delight;
And I would love my bread to win,
By singing morn and night.
But that, alas! my cruel luck
Forbids that I should do;
For I’m the wife of Doodleumbuck,
The King of Chuckamaroo.”
Around her swan-like neck there hung
A cottage eight-day clock;
Of tigers’ skin, looped up with tin,
Was the weird creature’s frock.
On, on, she came; her small bare feet
The leaves and llow’rets crushed;
And, as again she trilled her strain,
The forest vast was hushed ;—
“ Oh, would I knew from whence I came;
Would I could find my pa!
Sweet joy, if I could only claim,
An uncle or a ma 1
My name, I know it not, worse luck I
They call me Anitoo,
And I’m the wife of Doodleumbuck,
The King of Chuckamaroo.”
Bun listened—gave a heavy gasp;
Then outward straight he ran —
“What do, 1 see,” cried, starting, she—
“ a lovely pale-faci d man!
Oh, welcome, welcome, sir, upon
This small black-ridden isle.”
She made a bow— “ Come, tell me, now.
How do you like my style?
“ The tiger that was in this skin,
Good sir, I’d have you know.
Was killed by me. Just - let—me—see—
Oh, just a month ago!
This eight-day clock is much admired.
And that, 1 beg to state.
Was given me last week, you see,
With portions of a Mate.”
“ Hold, maiden! Cast your memory back,”
The sailor then did shout:
“ Had you a pa, who was by far,
The tightest bosen out?
Had you a doll, a box of bricks,
A rabbit, a pet lamb?
And did they make you sometimes take
White powders mixed in jam ?
“ Say, cannot you now call to mind,”
The salt did breathless mutter;
“ How oft you made, with a small spade,.
Big mud-pies in the gutter ?”
“ 1 recollect,’’ she mused, “these things;—
Ah, yes; and many more;
Thy ‘mug,’ 1 ween, too, I have seen,
In some strange place before.”
“ Had you the measles, chicken-pox,
An india-rubber ring ?
Were you,” he said, “ oft put to bed
And spanked for quarrelling ?
You were! ’Tls well. Come to my arms.
To know you now, I ought-er;
You are my gal, that’s baptised Sal,
My only long-lost daughter.”
Just then the King and all the Court
Trooped in upon the scene;
Brimful of rum that Court had come
To seek its errant Queen.
But when they east their eyes on Bun,
Raised straightway was their ire;
They bade their wives quick sharp their knlvea
And light a great big fire.
But for the ebon band, the Queen
Was more than equal far.
“ Your Majestee,” said she with glee,
‘ Why here’s my blooming Pa.
With loud rejoicings all the land
Did very soon resound:
And cannibals brought in their.gals
From many miles around.
A month had passed, when to escape
Both he and Sal did pine;
So (to cut it short) they poisoned the Court
With new colonial wine.
And then, with many a ringing laugh,
They seized the Royal Canoe,
And sailed away for ever and aye
From the Isle of Chnckamaroo.
For many days and nights they sailed
swift o’er the ocean blue;
When to their delight, the South Head light
One evening hove in view.
When I last heard of Antony Bun
And Sal, it was that they
Kept a sailors’ pub., and sold cheap grub.
On the road to Double Bay.
♦
Then darkness for a moment came to hiaeydTda.
Ic cime as if thrust on to him. He stotiggleo..
He put his hands up to hold it back. Bwt stillito
pressed down, until by its o*n weight, and oni ot
his stiuggle to resist it, light seemed to-spring-
“ Ha,” mused he, his reason clatchicgat hopes*
and fears as they coursed through hia brainy “so
1 ght is made ! * ut of darkness, always ! Out of:
darkness, by the work of a quivering, throbbing
will! '*ee, it is the phenomenon of electric.oy K
Man cannot dwell in darkness. 'Where man is,,
light mast shine. Man’s soul begets light, gener-
ates it in tae womb of night, fc.ee, it becomes
c'earer. It is under system. It revolves. It has
a nucleus. A pigmy world, a pigmy universe
wiling round, round I here, galaxies there! I
made this universe; my hope and tear made it!
Tnat sun —why, I am no fool, I know what that
sun is It is
A SOVEREIGN
I touched a little while ago ; that others touched
in dtys g me by ; that gave birth to sorrow in its
time, and birth to joy as well. I know it. But in
the darkness my mind meets it. The essences of
things commingle. We get fused. We act and
react. . shine forward to it; it shines forward to
me It is fabled that th« sun and the earth pro-
duced the consciousness of Man But has not the
consciousness of man been in the sun and the
earth? O Sun, shine brighter! Cur worll,
yours and mine, is at present a very little one, a
very dull one, a very wearying and sad one. But
I am alive here. My eyes see, my brain stirs. 1
look into you, and I see the universe; I see myself
as in a mirror ; memory runs down the past among
men and kings. And memory, too, begets
memory, and other tears fall as well as mine, and
I talk and am answered, and laugh and am
answered. I am not the only tragedian. Every-
thing that exists has been on the stage. Yon
have been there. Shine away, shine away ! You
are shining it all out, and I am listening. Yes,
listening. For there is something of a voice in
radiance —something that finds the tympanum,
something that moves among the brain-cells and
vibrates along the chords of sound. I watch you.
Still brighter, brighter!”
But there was a movement in the air as though
the eohoes of his last words still survived, and
his ears as well as his eyes strained towards the
new communion, and the sounds shaped them-
selves into syllables, and the radiance gkwed in
sympathy, and the dingy room and the forced
imprisonment weie forgotten, as he gazed into
the golden face, and heard, as if in a narrative,
woven out of the thoughts that haunted him, and
clad in the speech he knew, episodes of the past
which happened
BETWEEN A SLEEP AND A SLEEP
Resurrection! Ha, Resurrection ! Even I
have had my resurrection. Your sun shone, and
your rain fell, and I was still. Men were born,
men fought, men died, and I was still. I was put
away. But I knew that I should rise again, and
that once again my uses would be great as ever,
my power strong as ever, my vision of the ways of
men as full of pride and shame as ever. And the
tarn came. My sleep did me good. Through it
I got proof that your world was always the same,
and through it I am able to infer that now, when
you have lilted me once more to the upper earth,
the old yearn of little joy and much grief are
before me. Still it is betier to live and wear than
lie and rust. When 1 awoke from my former
sleep I passed directly into the hands of Viscount
stellar. He placed a fancy value upon me, and
when I was not being handed around as a
curiosity, I lay in a casket on his dressing table
It is no matter what circumstance won his fancy.
It was something in connection with a member of
his family, in which I had been a particularly
innocent particip«tor. It is mostly the way
honours go among men But, as I say, this
interested neither you nor me. I was now the
property of the Viscount. Viscount Stellar was a
poor man who delighted in a profuse expenditure
Some generations back, the family had been
wealthy ; but a succession of “ splendid fellows”
had lightened the income, and at my time the
Viscount, though he still entertained in a princely
style, was very poor. His tenants were still
numerous, but they were ground down to the
vtrge of starvation. The estates were mortgaged
upio the full extent of their carrying capacity,
and to screw a few extra pounds out of the
inheritance necessitated a constant study of the
lives of the tenant*. It was in one of these old
countries where there are too many people, and
where, to make a few happy, several must be
wretched. Often did I hear a tenant pleading for
mercy, counting up the price of the seed, the
value of the crop, and showing that the rent left
no margin for the food of one, let alone for that of
> wife and family. And often have I heard the
Viscount, aftrr sending the man away, curse
Nature and Society for sending him in on such a
world of hunger, where to fill himself he had per-
force to play the torturer. Sometimes, when the
casket was open, I saw him lean his head on his
nand, and I saw his mouth twitch as he hurled an
oath across the plains, and called the herd whose
happiness he squeezed from them Cowards ! For
Stellar now and then thought, and hie spirit was a
fiary and tempestuous one, and he knew that if he
were doomed, like the bipeds outside the gate, to
sweat and groan and starve and die, so that others
might feast and revel and batten and riot, his baud
would strike swiftly for destruction —destruction,
if not of otheis, of himself. Unce the Viscountess
came in She carried a tale from a flock
of starving women. The skies were ciuel.
the wind was bitter. Earth, always hard,
Heaven, always silent, were how leagued, and the
holy alliance had been inaugurated with blight
and tempest. The Vuoountess was like the
Viscount, both in virtues and vices, she felt for
the poor, but her station had to be maintained.
Hrrself and her husband would have been vir-
tuous had they not been bom and bred in a vicious
circle. As it w*s, virtue wa« spasmodic, and, as
she spoke, her fair white face was pillid, and tears
glistened in her eyes. _ She knewher bands were
tied; she knew her creditors were inexorable; she
knew her husband was throttled in the same way ;
and she knew nothing could come of the interview.
And the low hushed muttering of the crowd of
starvii g women came up to the chamber, and the
wind whistled overhead among the chimneys, and
th® rain and sleet pattered down. ‘‘Good God!
cried the husband, and his eye chancing to fall on
the open casket, he took me out and cast me in
the air. “ There!” he cried, “ thiow that among
them. It’s all I have. My life is eaten out with
usurious creditors. They will only lend while I
go on squeezing these people. Let me relax, and
I know I am done. I am living by legal murder
But,” he continued, turning me over, and think-
ing of the claims I had on a special recognition,
“ what is the use of it to them ? A drop of water
in a conflagration. It’s the system that srotten
It’s the system that’s murderous. Eva, wo can’t
help them. Good God! wo can’t help them.
We’ll go to Paris, and get rid of these spectacles.
They’ll drive me mad.”
I remember how anxious I was to fly from his
fingers that day; to fall down like a star from
heaven among the hungry women. To be a drop
of water on a conflagration is not much, but yet
better be that drop than nothing. I was thrown
back on the lid of the casket, and I heard the
moaning women go out and down the steps, and in
a little after I saw them away along the road, in
the wind and sleet, their rags flying and their
heads bowed, and their feet bare, and their white
thin arms gathered upon their breasts.
That night, while it was very dark and very
windy, I (heard strange feet on the stairs. One
room, two rooms, three rooms were entered
Stealthily the feet moved They came across the
corridor. I knew the Viscount was asleep
in the next room. I knew the feet were
those of a foe. I knew the wind and
the darkne ! s were about them. I knew
that madness was above them, and that
blood would soon flow. My door opened. A pair
of fiery eyes looked in. There was a pause. Then
a lantern with a low red light was turned round.
I taw the man as he entered. He was one of the
hungry peasants I had heard pleading lately, the
husband of one of the hungry women who had
gone away moaning—the father of a starved child
that lay dead in a hov»l below. His beard was
shaggy, his eyes were swollen. He did not look;
he glared ; glared round the room; at the mirror,
where for an instant his own savage face seemed
to arrest him; at the wardrobe; at the escritoire ;
at the tables; at the pictures on the walls. With
a composure in strange contrast with his appear-
ance, he placed the lantern on a chair, and stand-
ing up hie full height, listened All was silent.
He drew a large knife from his side pocket, and
laid it beside the lantern Then he lifted it again,
and looked intently at its shining blade. I heard
him mutter something as he cast his eyes upward
in what seemed to be an appealing glance to
Heaven, about starvation —starvation at the heart
of a wife, starvation that had woi ktd its worst
with a child. He went from place to place in the
room, but it was evidently coin he was looking for;
just as evidently he was disappointed. Clothes
he tossed about, writing paper and documents he
thrust contemptuously aside. Drawer after
drawer he noiselessly opened and as noiselessly
closed ; delaying now and then, to hold his breath
and listen. I wished his fiery eye would fall on
me, and that he would pick me up and begone ;
for I saw he was not a thief ora burglar whose life
was a running crime and I dreaded the outcome
of his search. At last became near me. Be lifted
the casket, and I fell on to the table. With a
snatch he seized me, and looked in the casket for
more Then he held me to the light and rubbed
me. I felt glad that, even unlawfully, I was now
to minister to some human comfort. I longed for
him to take up his lamp and knife, and fly. But he
lingered.
“ The first,” he muttered, “ the first fruits of
my crime 1 Am X mad P Has Heaven added the
la-1 drop to my cup of misery and made me a
mani ? What means’*his? Gold, yes, gold !
And there is my lantern* and there is my shining
knife ! What meant these ? I came for
blood. No; I came for gold, but was
willing to statoh it through blood. Great
Heaven! is there no other way ? True,
George is no w dead; Hmma may be dead before
anoi-ber day. 1 his Sovereign will keep the grave
closed. I’ll go But is there no other way?
Must I set at defiance the laws of God, and count
as nought the laws of man ? True, it is all law,
law; and every law is against me. But I believe
in Heaven, and so does my starving wife, and my
dead child is gone there ; and will not this gold,
thus got, stand up like a ridge between us for
evermore P No; I’ll not take it. 111 break this
knife into fragments.”
I lay heavy in his palm, and was wishing him to
go. '* O, Father of Heaven,” he muttered,
“ when I think of going back to Emma with the
same empty hands, and looking into her eyes with
the same empty sorrow Yes, yes, I’ll take it!
Surely, in Thine azure heaven there’s pity; surely,
at the foot of 'Ihy throne there will be pardon ,
surely the gold will not stand between ns for
ever! Bat where shall I tell Emma I got it?
She will not touch it, if she knows its history,
t he will mt sleep if she knows my crime. Hide
it ? Say I found it ? Ah, she will smell the stain
of it. She will remember my words when going
out; she will know my look when comitg in. She
loves me too well to miss the black blotch on my
heart, the red stain on my soul, which this night
has made! I came to murder, if murder w*re
necessary. That I can thieve the gold without
the bljod does not greatly shift my guilt.
I lay more heavily in his palm, and prayed that
he would go. „ , .
“Beit," muttered he, after a pause, best
that I should go. All my life long I have dwelt in
the shadow of poverty. All my life long I nave
toiled and sweated, and struggled and groaned. A
py came to me, now and again. Emma gave mo
her hand, a dozen years ago. It was a rift in the
clouds above me. She was pure and bright and
simple as a child What she saw in me I cannot
ted She could not have seen that I was a
murderer. Often, when the struggle was hard,
when what has come to pass was threatening,
when my sweat was not enough to appease the
demon of Want, when my strength was not enough
to keep his fangs from her throat, I have risen to
do 1 know not what —for only a little way off were
prodigality and license —only a little way off
equipages flared, dinners steamed, riot and rout
held sway; but 1 never got well on my feet until
her blue eyes found mine, and her hands, that
were once so soft and tender, were stretched out
to mine, and her lips, that were once so rosy and
red, came to mine ; and then, with my haggard,
care-worn Emma, I forgot the rout and revelry of
my pitiless taskmasters, and I dreamed with her
of a future —somehow happier; if not here,
elsewhere—where all these bruises wonldbe healed,
and all these tears wiped away. Emma, Emma,
why did you not lookup at me to night? Ah,
yon were bent over the face of our dead George !
God! God!” . , a „ , ,
I rolled over in his hand, and called him a fool,
and just then the door opened, and Viscount
Stellar walked forward in bis nightdress. The
two men with fixed eyes plunged at each other, J
fell to the floor. There was fittle spoken. I saw
the knife gleaming in the red light of the lantern,
and I heard Stellar say as the blood spouted over
me, “ Ha, Hsoge, you have won ! Were I you
I’d have won long ago !” The Viscountess came
screaming into the room, but there was no one
there but Stellar and me. The peasant had made
his escape; and although the kitchen hands
pursued him over the grounds he had, for the
present, eluded their efforts.
In due course, Hodge was caught and hung; and
the usual sermons were preached, and the usual
exhortations were given, and I was handed about
very freely, for I formed a link in the chain of
testimony that convicted Hodge of having entered
with a design of robbing. And the blood was left
on me until after Hodge was sentenced. Then
the Viscountess gave me to the Church
You will admit that I did little good on that
occasion. You will say that it would have been as
well had I been still asleep. But it is so with all
of us. We are all so circumscribed that the display
of our activities depends almost wholly on chance.
In the Church I thought my sphere would be
v ider. I thought my uses would be less doubtful.
I thought 1 should make heaits glad, and go on
from hand to hand, making gladness wherever I
went I longed wistfully to drop into the palm
of poverty. But my time was not yet. I lay for
long in the waistcoat pocket of a Bishop. I was
witness to no tragedy while in the Church, but I
would rather do my time again with fatellar than
be carried about the sanctuary I never so itched
for freedom, so burned to get away. One time a
poor woman came up to the Bishop and told him
a sorrowful tale. Sickness had been about her
house, and, after ransacking the little cottage,
beckoned in Heath. Her husband was taken
away, and half a dozen children didn’t know what
ailed them. She begged hard to see the Bishop;
atd as he had had a good dinner, and was in
excellent humour, he ordered her in. When she
had stated her case, and expatiated on her once
happy home, now so dreadfully visited, and
doomed to such harrowing gloom, the Bishop’s
fingers took me out, and I almost slipped from
them in haste to reach the weeping woman. But
he held me on, and looked at me. “ My poor
woman,” said he, it is a very sad case; bnt do
not lose your confidence in Heaven. God orders
all things for the best, and disposes oi us after
His own wise ways. Bear in mind that those
whom He loves Be chastises, and that every tear
we shed here will, it we preserve a spirit of true
reverence and resignation, bea jewelin our crown
of glory hereafter. Kneel down, my child, and I
will give you my blessing.” And he put me lack
into his pocket, and, having blessed the poor
woman, told her that he had no more time to spend
talking to her. That night he preached a sermon
on Christian charity that made the whole church
weep. It was soul-stirring, passionate, erudite,
eloquent; and possibly to the present time it is
referred to as the master-piece of that true-
hearted, broad-minded, sympathetic, practical,
Christian minister—whose heart was like a
woman’s, wrung into anguish at the sight of
distress, and covered with oonfnsion and grief if it
failed to impart solace. I saw many a case like
that while I was with him ; but he finally handed
me over to the curate, and got a receipt for me. I
was still in the Church, however, and as far from
realising my ideal as ever. Ihe poor who flocked
about got phntyof “God bless yens,” but they
were as far from touching me as when I was in
Btellar’s casket.
Was there to come no end to this ? Often I
yearned to return to my silent resting-place—to
sink once more to slumber —to get away cnoe again
out of the reach of sorrows I could not assuage,
tears I could not dry. Ha, the curate volunteered
to evangelise the heathen. He sailed over the
seas. I felt the freshness of a new atmosphere,
the flush of a new sun. 1 felt a measure of happi-
ness. The din of misery was not so great, the
wind did not whistle so persistently among rags.
And I got emancipated from the Church ! How-
ever dark your fate may be, take hope, take hope.
However doggedly the feet of a dreary destiny may
follow you, a time will dome in which at last your
wish will be accomplished, your prayer heard. My
wish was at last accomplished, my prayer was
heard. «)ver the billows of disappointment and
vexation, I had reached a haven at last. I had
a.ways signed to find my way to a poor man’s
hand—to feel his palm thrill under me, his fingers
close firmly over me. And the time came. I was
handed over to a newspaper proprietor ! Thence
I passed into the coffer to be taken and planted
here, and enter upon another term of sleep. I
know not what future is now before me, or what
coarse 1 shall pursue until I sleep again !
Christmas morning. It was just daybreak,
as a cart containing three men, drove up to
(Concluded on page IS.)
“To touch the merry mandolin is ever my delight. ’


CHISISTMiiS, 1SS3. UETXT 1884.
iflTMNT lOUItl i W,
AT .A
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS.
DURING THIS MONTH, 'WE ARE MAKING OUR SPECIAL SHOW OF
7 \
CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR’S GOODS.
m
P
BQIISIHIQIIIIBIB
mmmm
lov Year's Gifts!
Christmas Presents!
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET, ONLY.
In view of the present Summer Season, and the approaching Christmas Holidays, we have made unexampled preparations to meet
the requirements of our numerous patrons. Never before was our Mammoth Establishment so replete with New and Fashionable
Goods for personal use, wear, or adornment, as at the present time. During the last six weeks we have received and opened
2000 CASES OF
Drapery, Furniture, Fancy Goods and Household Requisites,
and we claim to be the only UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS in the Southern Hemisphere.
The Palace Emporium is one of the Sights of Sydney, and visitors should not omit to take a walk through our vast Establishment.
WE HAVE ONLY ONE ADDRESS—
ANTHONY HOHDEHN AND SONS,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket, Sydney.


Foster s Brand .
REGISTERED BRAND.
■*
HOT WATER BATHS
HAltf CASING Ws£MW»NC rSTflri&HMENT
■■S iZZ 13? M4f OXFORD v T •
'p. HALF MOLtOA Y c yff. y,r/ft/MSOAY '■
mm
AMD
?<i
CHEST AFFECTIONS
AND
ALL
m
m
THE HARWOOD
Fibre Chair Seating,
Possessing all the qualities of a perfect seat, viz.:
Strength, Durability, Ease, Beauty, Cleanliness
and Cheapness.
THIS CHAIR SEAT is made from the strongest
known fibres and a perfectly waterproof
cement, and after fifteen years’ constant use, we
can speak positively as to its merits. It cannot
split or check, neither will exposure to sun or rain
affect it.
Awarded Gold Medal at the late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
For RE-SEATING it is unrivalled. In every
house, store and oflice, are chairs with seats broken.
Any person can re-seat and make as good as new a
chair that is otherwise worthless, at a very trifling
expense.
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE FOR HOME USE.
Agents Wanted in Every District.
From £3 to £5 a week can be made by any smart
man or boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
82 CLARENCE STREET.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
Stock. Station, and Genera! Com-
mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
<5
ars h all's Fluid
Extract ofD^NDELioN
oMor l iver Complaints,
W b I n n n tl/cD c*
y MARSHALL BROTHERS.
CHEMISTS. MARKET ST pfft
IV. H. Ariel! and Co. ’s Agencies.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, Canter-
bury, Normanby, and Christmas Family Cakes,
Plum Puddings, Mincemeat, Self-raising
A2rated Flour, Infant’s Pood, Treacle and
EXCELSdOR 5 F wSlLS.—Superior Victorian Oat-
meal and Pearl Barley. . _ .
DILLON & BURROWS’ prize assorted Confec-
tionery.
, KITCHEN & SONS, No. 1
Soaps.
Mottled and Toilet
& CO.’S Coffee, Mustard, Cocoa,
* Tea, in and Ub. packets ; dressed Rice,
and Patent Groats. . . , .,
IUNT & CO.’S Prize Baking Powders, Adelaide
Jams Paper Bags, &c.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER or PITT AND PARK STREETS.
TAMES PEARSON, successor to w. Alexander,
wishes to remind all old customers and the
mblic generally that he has a large assortment of
(rawing. Dining, and Bed Room Furniture, also
ilfice Furniture, all of good quality and reason-
ible in price. Inspection
JEWELLERY, JEWELLERY. JEWELLERY.
CASH SALE.
EXTENSIVE ALTERATION TO PREMISES.
LAMB & FAIRFAX, 23 Hunter-street,
beg to inf urn their customers and the public that
they are now offering their carefully-selected
Stock at a Reduction of 25 per cent.
Five ShiLings in the Pound taken off plain marked
previous prices.
N.B.—As Christmas is close at hand, the opportu-
nity should not be missed of purchasing Intended
gifts.
“ m GUN DAG AI HERALD,
I Pastoral Gazette & Farmers’ Chronicle,”
With which is incorporated the
“TEMORA HERALD & MINING JOURNAL,”
Published every
WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
The popular paper of the district.
W. H. L. BAILEY, Proprietor.
Theatrical Job Printing, and box otBoe for
Assembly Hall.
Christmas Season, 1883-84.
GEO. ROBERTSON
Begs to announce
THAT HIS MAGNIFICENT STOCK
CHRISTMAS
AND
NEW YEAR’S CARDS
FOR THE COMING SEASON,
IS NOW OPEN FOR SELECTION
GEORGE ROBERTSON,
361 George-street.
the new tobacco.
STHE NEW TOBACCO.
*THE NEW TOBACCO.
The MRS g|g '{igSSS NEW ToliccSl
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
SeCSat n onc S e, ie 8o C that everyone can
$BACC“
ivith a moderate price.
lEYDEp TOOMAM & CO.,
VOHK STREET. SYDNEY _____
I ft- TIGHT SHOW CASE
67 GEORG Hi STREET WEMT.
Air-tight
SHOW
CASES
AT
LONDON
PRICES.
itractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
signs and Estimates Furnished on application.
HOP,
F1CE,
4ND
m
;el-bar
'TERS.
■pUBLIC NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1884,
late 483 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
a. TWO DOORS NORTH OF OLD 8HP>’
mm
COLLEGE STREET. HYDE PARK. SYDNEY.
-4
ARTIFICAL TEETH on the most approved Eng-
h Principles, Fitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastica-
in. Natural Appearance, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping, Scaling, and Extractions skilfully
performed
ESTABLISHED 1837.
FOWLER’S POTTERY and
BRICKWORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and Magazines received by
every Mail.
ROYAL ARCADE. 4«B GEORG W ST. *YDMRV.
THE AUSTRALIAN
Diamond Drill Company.
roNTRACTS will he undertaken by the above
Company to bore any sized holes, vertical or
horizontal, up to
o INCHES, OR LARGER IF REQUIRED,
vr, nnv depth, at a reduction of 25 PER CENT
t° pREVTQUS CH ARGE.
The Company, in all cases, will find their own
fuel and water for drilling purposes, and will make
no charge for loss of diamonds or wear and tear on
nhint and will also provide workmen engineers, &c.
P rtrrnenew duplex barrel, introduced into the
nJwiv hv Mr J. Coghlan, will be used free of
charge topersons searching for minerals.
C has every confidence, from his prao
the Diamond Drill, that he will
Kble to give general satisfaction, as weU as quick
despatch to all orders addressed to the
Temporary Offices, 311 George-street.
JOHN COGHLAN,
General Manager, pro. tern.«
m
GUARANTEED FIVE YEARS OLD.
POTSTILL AND MALT WHISKY,
BASS PALE ALE.
GENT
JAMES YOUNG, Sole Agent,
No. 9 CHANGE ALLEY.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
Virgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
Champagne
Heidsieck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS & Co., London.
Sole Agents for Heidsieck & Co., Reims.
BLEND
[trade]
MA
u
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.—This is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
iVik
l:N
%
'll
R.BURGIS
TAILOR.
•
W 1
VISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
FOR
CHEAPNESS, FIT, AND WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any
part of the Colony
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Com shelters
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
&c. &o. &c.
LCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10
HBBBLEWHITE & 0 O.J
416 GEORGE STREET.
DINNER,
ONE SHILLING.
X
I E
fli 1
✓
»
H t
E H
►Ih
sb 3
o £
&
PITT STREET,
NEXT TATTBRSALL’S.
All Heals One IhlUlnc.
J. a OR BEN FIELD. PaOFBDROa.
SUPPERS AFTER
RUSSELL,
DENTIST,
Corner of KING and PITT STREETS, Sydney.
Artificial Teeth, from 5s. Stopping, Scaling, and
Extracting equally moderate. Malformations and
accidental deformities of the jaws, teeth, or palate,
treated. King-st. entrance All work guaranteed.
Schweppes Mineral Waters,
as supplied
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN AND ROYAL
FAMILY,
CAN he obtained of the principal Hotel-keepers.
Wine Merchants, and Chemists throughout
the colonies.
SODA-WATER, LEMONADE, GINGER ALE,
POTASS, LITHIA (for gout) SELTZER,
TONIC, MAGNESIA WATERS.
51 BEHNERS-STREBT, LONDON;
58 MARGARET-STREET, SYDNEY.
WRIGHT, HEATON & GO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
r and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE ;
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.8.W.;
Qoulburn
fass
Bownlng
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Bock
Culcairn
Cowabee
Narandera
Hulong
Carrathool
Hay
Western District, N.S.W.:
Capertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromlne
Nevertlre
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblln
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
Northern District, N.S.W.s
Morpeth
Qunnedah
Narrabri
Walgett
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Brewarrina
Tamworth
Uralla
Southern and South-Western Line:
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby
Yeulba
Cambooya
Central Line:
Rockhampton Capella
Bogantungan uomet
Emerald
Northern Line:
Townsville Ravenswood Junction
Charters Towers
Agents In Victoria and South Australia;
WM. M'CULLOCH & CO., LIMITED.
Agencies in all parts of the world.
/IB RE L LAS
RE-COVERED,
STUDY ECONOMY
and
HaveyourUmbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
cuted.
14


CV
v».
i
A
CiHjVl
685
<*s
2
j. /
LZ
5$
%
gFiiJfc
>
U\N®
£
7
539 & 541 G€QR6£ST
■ 7/™w oYBHEY/^ 1^
JtflMwcARW OPPOSITE POST Office.
street
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GTJNS.
For Price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &o.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREE'l.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
J LAWLER, 608 George-street, Bedding Manu-
• facturer. Importer of Brass and Iron Bed-
steads, American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair,
Kapok, and Cotton Flock. Established 1860.
sjjggsa
C. B. MODINI,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
fe® 1 ' TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 603 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborne ; also Angel© Bor-
doni, of Brescia, Italy.
SOHO BAZA AH,
352 GEORGE STREET
(Paling’s Old Premises).
THIS BAZAAR, which has just been OPENED
will be found to contain a superior assort
ment of
Brie a Brae, Articles of Verth,
Terra Cotta, Chinaware, &c.,
Tricycles, French and German
Model Dolls, Count Harrach’s
Bohemian Vases, Parisian and
Viennese Leather Goods,
Parian Marble Figures,
and all varieties of
FANCY GOODS AND TOYS.
INSPECTION INVITED.
V.
Solxo Bazaar
352 George Street.
Haymarket Auction Room
AND
FURNITURE BAZAAR
CORN EXCHANGE BUILDING
724 GEORGE STREET.
The cheapest place in Sydney to purchase eve
description of Household Furniture.
HOUSES FURNISHED on the Time-payme
System.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY instalments taken.
Open—Mondays and Wednesdays, 9 to !
Saturdays , . 9 to 1(
Tuesdays and Fridays . . 9 to t
JOHN P. LISTER, Proprietor
£3?” THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPER!
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £100,000.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CBN
on fixed deposits for 13 months; FIVE PER CF.N'
sli0rt "r periods; FIVE PE
CENl. on sums from £1 to £50 in the Savings Bar
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
rjl H E MILK SUPPLIED BY ]?H
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWAYS PURE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, >
tree from city contaminations.
Butter.
This is either manufactured at their own dep<
or obtained from the best butter-makers in tt
Southern dairy districts.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays exceptei
when only morning delivery is made. Butter b
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three tim<
weeKiy.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
21 HARBOUR STREET.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 Park Street,
IMPORTERS
Of
PIANOS,
by every maker
of renown, from
£25 and up-
wards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock,
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED by ACT OF PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £127,500
Directors *
The Hon. Sir John H ay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. RoHeston, Esq., C.M.G.
, Auditors;
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. | Hon. H, E. Cohen, Esq
Manager; | Secretary:
F. A. A. Wilson. | Hector Alien.
Branches in New South Wal.es :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giraiambone,
Gosford, Nyngan, and Bourke.
London Branch : 153 Leadenhall-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq. | Geo. P. Slade, Esq-
Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wool
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
W,
KERR,
Watchmaker
Jeweller,
and
Silversmith.
JJAS JUST OPENED HIS NEW PREMISES
544 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the TOWN HALL,
With a magnificent stock of Diamond, Roman
„ and Vienna Jewellery,
GOLD AND SILVER WATCHES & CLOCKS,
Football, Cricketing, and Trophy Speciality.
Note the Address—
514 GEORGE STREET.
m
Pianos! Pianos! Pianos!
FREE TRADE and NO MONOPOLY.
Live and Let Live, these are Our Mottoes.
It is a well-known fact that the Foundations cf
Colossal Fortunes have been established upon the
Profits arising from the SALE OP PIANOS in this
City dunng the past Twenty Years by those
oJ 1 ?? i 1^ 1 ® knowledge of the Construction
and Detads of the Pianoforte. While giving the
Public the benefit of our Mr. Young’s 35 years’
personal practical experience (5 years in John
Broadwood and Sons, London, and 20 in N S W >
we will, at the same time, be satisfied with a fair
Pi? rC T < ? nt S? e °f* Co-operative Principle, sharing
the Profits with our Customers. We will sell from
35 per cent. less than the same class of Instrument
can be Purchased at any Music Shop in Sydney,
and we will offer nothing for Sale we cannot
guarantee. American Organs at proportionately
low prices. Also a Large Stock of Kohn’s Celtv
brated Austrian Furniture, a single article of
which we are selling at Wholesale Prices.
Come and See Our LPTTLE BEAUTIES in Wal-
nut and Full Iron Frame, at £25 cash, Eleswhcre
tem m ° re ’ ° r un<^er a liberal Time Payment Svs-
George E. Young and Co.,
1ST" 285 PITT STREET,
South of Royal Arcade.
Singer’s Sewing Machines.
TURNER' & CO.
Are the Recognised Agents of the
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS:
3s. 6d. per week-2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week.
And no interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
1ST BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE “SINGER,"
TURNER & COMPANY,
353 George-street.
THE ONLY “SINGER.”
Turner and Company,
578 GEORGE STREET.
SEARL & SONS,
NURSERYMEN, SEEDSMEN, BOUQUETISTS
And Artistic Floral Dinner-table Decorators,
3 and 5 GEORGE-STREET MARKETS, SYDNEY ;
Also,
BLAIR ATHOL NURSERY, PETERSHAM.
Pelargoniums now in full bloom. Inspection
invited.
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
A CUBE GUARANTEED.
NERV
SRAINL
treatmfnt~
Dr. E. C. WEST’S NERVE & BRAIN TRI
MENT.
A guaranteed specific for hysteria, dizziness, cc
vulsions, fits, nervous neuralgia, headache, nerve
prostration caused by the use of alcohol or tobaci
wakefulness, mental depression, softening of t
brain resulting in insanity and leading to misei
decay, and death ; premature old age, caused
over-exertion of the brain or over-indulgem
Each box contains one month’s treatment, 5s,
box, or six boxes for 25s.; sent by mail prepaid
receipt of price. We guarantee six boxes to cu
any case. With each order received for six boxi
accompanied with 25s., the purchaser will reeei
the manufacturer’s written guarantee to refui
the money if the treatment does not effect a eui
Guarantees issued by all chemists and druggist*;
The SMITH Organs
Have no rival
on the Planet.
Sole’Agents:
u
GRAMPTON
AND
BRUCE.
tm
ISP
m
ur
,
it
281 i~
GEORGE ST.
opposite;
HUNTER ST.
PINEST STOCK OP PIANOS AND ORGANS IN SYDNEY.
A CUP OP GOOD COFFEE
IS WHAT YOU WANT, BUT SELDOM GET.
THEN ASK YOUB GROCER OR STOREKEEPER FOR
A. G. Churchwooa’s Crown B
HLBNnen KKiiH THE FINEST MOCHA. JAMAICA, and CEYLON BERRIES.
2v£sirtl:ra. HZeesla-am.,
STAR & GARTER HOTEL
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
As no expense has been spared in the erection of the Hotel premises, M. K. guarantees country
visitors and others the best accommodation, combined with civility.
. , T/v r olff Son’s
To be had fromall Stationers & Storekeepers throughout the colonies
it
Peapes & Shaw’s
STANDARD ’’ CLOTHING.
We have now
now open, for the SUMMER SEASON, THE MOST COMPREHENSIVE ASSORT\fw\rrr
GENTLEMEN’S READY-MADE CLOTHING to be found in any house in the city. ENT ° F
PEAPES & SHAW’S
STANDARD CLOTHING
is
THE BEST VALUE
IN SYDNEY.
1 “STANDARD” TWEED SUITS,” 32s. 6d., 35s., 43s 4Ss ««
I BLUE SERGE SUITS, 35,. and 488 **
TWEED SAC COATS, 6s. 6d. each, suitable for garden or offioo
i WEED SAC COATS, 15s. 6d. and 21s Raraen or office.
BLUE SERGE SAC COATS, 18s. 6d., 21s.
I TWEED TROUSERS, Ms. 8d., 13s. 6d., 16s. 6d
I L TRO USERS and VESTS, 25s. and
30s.
NICHOLLS’ LIGHT SUMMER DUST COATS, THIRTY SHILLINGS
LIGHT TWEED OVERCOATS, 42s., 5Cs., 55s.
“SPECIAL” COLOURED HOLLAND SAC COATS, 4s. 6d. EACH.
and
CHRISTY’S HATS, all new summer shapes.
BOYS’ MAN-O’-WAR SUITS, guernsey
whistle, complete.
RELIABLE MACINTOSH CLOTH ING.-All
descriptions made to our special order.
BOATING, CRICKETING, and LAAVN-TBNNIS
HYTS.
WHITE FLANNEL SACS, for cricketing or boat-
ing, 22s. 6d.
FLANNEL TROUSERS, 13s 6d. per pair.
"ssr linen dock vests .
WHITE and COLOURED DUCK COATS, militarv
18s 6°d 2 C l°s ’ 68 - 6d ” 10S - 6d ” « . “S «C
DUCK foiOUSERS, 12s. 6d. per pair
C S N 6d S S K SAC aDd D^ST COATS, 15s. 6d.,
COATS, 18s. 6d., 31s.
and RUSSELL ’ CORD
PEAPES and SHAW, George-streec.
0UR^MERCER Y DEPARTMENT is stocked with all the LEADING NOVELTIES for the Summe
SENT
«KgSftJSS5S““ “ a SDMMER MBMN ° HALF-H08E, in plain colon.* „ r tmsJ
GENT S UNDER SHIRTS, India Gauze, Gosamer, Summer Merino (coloured and wiiffoi .
Anglo-Ind san, and Spun Silk, with Pants to match. (coloured and white), Balbnggan,
GENT’S WHITE SHIRTS, O.F. or B.B., 30s., 40s., 50s. half-dozen.
SCA AlbfA n ShaP ® 8 ’ Colouring8 ’ and Designs.-The Masher, Cyprus, Rosebery. Marquis.
UMBRELLAS, 8,10,12,14,16 ribs, Natural Sticks, Nickel Fittings, from 10s 6d to Via
THE NEW TITAN1A UMBRELLA, folds neater and closer than anyumbraffin M n. u
THE NEW COMBINATION BRACE and DRAWERS SUSPENDERS 1 g each *
SILK HANDKERCHIEFS. 21s., 30s., 40s. the dozen.
PEAPES & SHAW, George-street,


3E3. ROWL.AMTDS,
LATE RuWLANDS if LEWIS,
Manufacturer off all kinds off /Erated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Vlgorine,
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL CO.’S
Bon Accord Brass, Copper, Lead & Iron Works,
8 and 9 MACQUARIE PLACE,
PLUMBERS AND GAS FITTERS, ART METAL WORKERS, &C. MANUFACTURERS AND
IMPORTERS OF CHANDELIERS, BRASS WINDOW SASH BARS, DIVING GEAR, &c.
PUMPS, HELMETS,
DRESSES, HOSE,
SPRINGS, GUERNSEYS,
STOCKINGS, BOOTS
(with lead soles),
RBAAIRING CLOTH.
SOLUTION, and all
ACCESSORIES, &o.
THE MARSHALL
WINDOW FASTENER,
THE CHEAPEST
and
MOST INEXPENSIVE
FASTENER MADE.
Prevents all rattling, and
fastens the window at
any height.
No weights, pulleys, cords, &o.,
required.
Celebrated CHAMPION ROLLER SKATES, and every other make, always on hand Wheels, Soles*
Bodies, and all Accessories. Manufacturers of the PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARA1US.
Ranges Fitted with Hot and Cold Water. Circulating Apparatus and Boilers.
MEDALLISTS AND SPECIAL PRIZE HOLDERS. VW ESTABLISHED 1856.
MEINRATH AND CO.
SHIETMAHEES,
96 KING- STREET, SYDNE Y.
San Francisco Palace of Art,
LATE
BOYD.
The natrons of the SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART, so well known throughout
the Australian colonies, are informed that, in addition to the same high-class portrait
work for which it has been noted,
Copies and Enlargements to Life Size, by new and improved pro-
cesses, from any photograph or negative, are now taken.
Opals, Autotype, Transfer, or Albuminized Paper, in Crayon or Coloured.
The same staff of Artists, who have rendered the work of this establishment famous,
ar* employed, and all negatives (15,000 in number) taken during the past four years, carefully
preserved, from which copies may be had on application by sending name and address.
W. T. BENNETT, Manager.
BOYD’S
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OVEE PALING’S),
IS NOW OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged by
Mr. B. All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
N B —BOYD (OVER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
L. E. HENDERSON, Manager.
Christmas Novelties !
EX “LIGURIA.”
.LOYD & HARBOROW, 470 George-Sft., op. Markets.
Lloyd and Harborow’s Gloves
Lloyd and Harborow’s Hosiery
Lloyd and Harborow’s Boots
Lloyd and Harborow’s Laces
Lloyd and Harborow’s Eichns
Lloyd and Harborow’s Sunshades
Lloyd and Harborow’s Pans
Lloyd and Harborow’s Perfumery
Lloyd and Harborow’s Bags, &c.
The Choicest collection of Christmas Cards in Sydney.
N.B.—THE NEW SHOP, OPPOSITE MARKETS, 470 GEORGE-STREET.
470 George-street.
Opposite Markets.
470 George-street.
Opposite Markets.
470 George-street.
Opposite Markets.
470 George-street.
Opposite Markets.
470 George-street.
McCLEERY’S HOTEL,
Corner of KING and CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
R. McCLEERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
&r PRIVATE BAR UP-STAIRS.
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPIRITS,
Begs to announce to Ms town and country friends, that he has just completed
extensive additions to his
Wholesale and Retail Bottle Department,
Which is now replete with a well-assorted stock of the Best Brands of Wines and Spirits, personally
selected by the proprietor during his recent visit to Europe. He can therefore confidently recommend
the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, as per the following list, hopes to merit a share of their
patronage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
PALE BRANDY. Per Bottle.
s d
Gllbey’s very old Brandy, gold top .. ..66
Hennessy’s V .0. ((very old) bottled by P. R. L. 6 0
Hennessy’s 3 Star (*♦*) . 6 6
Dubois and Co.’s Old ♦** Pale 5 6
Fine Old Pale, bottled by P. R. L 5 6
Hennessy’s Battle Axe (*) 6 0
Martell’s Blue Label (♦) 5 0
Flasks 2s 3d and 2 6
Half-flasks 16
Hennessy’s Draught Pale Brandy, per Impe-
rial quart 6s and 6 0
DARK BRANDT.
Hennessy’s 3 Star (***) 6 6
Martell’s Very Old *♦* 6 6
Martell’s Old 5s and 4 0
MarteU’s Dark, per Imperial quart .. .. 5 0
Flasks 2s 6d and 2 8
LOWNDE’S W. I. RUM.
DARK.
Quality—Good 2 0
Better 2 6
Still Better 3 0
QuaUty—N o. 1, per Imperial quart 6s and 5 0
No. 2, „ „ .. ..4 6
No. 3, „ „ .. ..4 0
No. 4, „ „ 3s and 3 6
Flasks Is 9d and 2 6
JAMAICA RUM.
PALS.
Very Finest ..4 0
Bed Heart 4 6
Fine Jamaica, per Imperial quart .. ..5 0
Jamaica Rum, in Flasks .. .. 2s6dand 2 3
BEERS (BRITISH).
Best Brands of Ales and Porters always on hand.
ALBURY (N.S.W.) WINES.
Burgundy
Rttamogah, red ..
„ Muscat
„ ReisUng
Fallon’s Shiraz ..
f • n • •
quarts 2 6
„ 2 6
„ 2 6
” I f
„ 3 6
.. pints 1 6
PORT WINE.
40-year old, Gilberts
Celebrated Four Diamond ..
Quality—No. 1 (very superior old)
No. ***** grape
No.***» „
No. **♦
No. *•
No. *
Draught Port Wine, per Imperial quart
Per Bottle.
s d
6 6
4 0
SHERRY.
40-year old, Gllbey’s 6 8
Very Finest Amontillado (very dry) 6 8
Fine AmontiUado 6 0
Celebrated Four Diamond Sherry 4 o
Common Sherry g q
i 5 I
Draught Sherry Wine, per Imperial quart ( 4 0
I 3 u
BRITISH WINES.
James Heddle’s Ginger Wine g g
Orange Wine g
IRISH WHISKY.
Jameson’s *** g n
Old Dublin Whisky (***) bottled by Burke ... 4 9
Kinahan’s unrivalled L L n
Thorne’s Old Irish Whisky 4 0
Jameson’s 3s 6d and 4 0
Dunvllle’s 3 g
Klnahan’s Draught, per Imperial quart ... 5 0
Jameson’s „ „ ... 5 0
Flasks 2s 6d and 2 3
SCOTCH WHISKY.
Walker’s 7-year old, in bulk bo
Thistle Blend 4 fl
Royal Blend 4s and 6 0
Lome Highland 4 0
Kilmarnock 4 0
Glenllvet 8s6dand 4 0
Glenlivet Whisky, per Imperial quart 5 0
Flasks 2s 6d and 2 3
GIN.
Blue Bell or Yellow Seal Geneva ... 4 0
Celebrated Key Brand, very large size, each
bottle containing more than a quart ... 3 g
Flasks Key Gin ... is and 1 8
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, all returns being
illowed for. 0T Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at the Railway
Station or any wharf in the city, or any country station, Free of Charge.
P. R. LARKIN’S CASE OF ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS—On receipt of £3, the following
genuine articles will be forwarded in Square Bottles, securely packed in a case :—
5 Quarts KEY GIN, 1 Quart WHIS*KY, 1 Quart SUPERIOR PORT WIRE,
2 Quarts PALE BRANDY, 5 Quarts WEST INDIA RUM, 1 Quart SUPERIOR SHERRY WINE
TOTAL-15 QUARTS.
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, please make Post Office
()rders payable at the Hay market Post Office.
Kindly Note the Address—
P. /?- LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail Wine & Spirit Merchant & Importer,
George and Gipps Sts., Haymarket, Sydney.
-A. O-^-^lTZD
J. J. RYAN,
THE PEOPLE’S CLOTHIER,
Is OPENING up, every day, a Large Stock of Choice and Fashionable MEN’S, BOYS’, and YOUTHS’
SUITS, TROUSERS and YES VS, SAC, FROCK, and PAGET COATS, HARD and SOFT FELT HATS
WHITE and REGATTA SHIRTS, COLLARS, TIES, and HOSIERY. Every article is marked in
main figures, and at VERY LOW PRICES,
Both shops are thorougly chock full. Come early and inspect the Stock in both shops.
I keep the LARGEST STOCK of WORKING MEN’S CLOTHING In SYDNEY to choose from.
Be sure you find the right shops, when requiring CLOTHING OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
J. J. Ryan, 760 George Street, Haymarket;
And 466 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Markets, near Market Street.
! Declaration of War!
AU the Stationers in Sydney have declared War. Against WHO ? Why,
W, XVX. Wallace,
ROYAL ARCADE,
496 G-eorgre Street,
For out-doing them in QUALITY, VAHIETY, and CHEAPNESS, in
CHRISTMAS CARDS NEW YEAR CARDS BIRTHDAY CARDS
WORK BOXES WRITING DESKS SCRAP ALBUMS
LADIES AND GENT.’S CARD CASES, PURSES AND POCKET BOOKS, ARTIST S MATERIALS,.
AND FANCY INKSTANDS.
fST PHOTO ALBUMS,—Photo Albums, best and largest and cheapest assortment in Sydney.
Thousands of volumes (suitable for Christmas presentations). Church Services, Bibles, Prayer Books,
which he is now soiling at lees than English and Foreign prices. Call and see his Arcade Palace for
CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR CARDS, AND CHRISTMAS PRESENTS.
N.B.—SPECIAL REDUCTION ON AIL GOODS FOR ONB MONTH ONLY.


The Treasury, New South Wales,
27th November, 1883.
PAYMENT OF BENTS OF RUNS.
HOLDERS of Runs in the 2nd Class Settled and
Unsettled Districts, are reminded that, by
the 9th clause of chapter 3, part 2 of the Regula
tions under the Lands Act Further Amendment
Act of 1880, the rents of all Buns must be paid on
or before the 31st December next.
Persons tendering payments will be required to
state Lessee s name. District, and name or Run.
A pamphlet having been published, showing the
rents payable on the various Runs of the Colony,
copies of the same can be obtained at the Govern-
ment Printing Office, at a charge of Is 6d. each.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
A CONTRIBUTOR to all the lea ing journal!
and magazine* of Australia, supplies origi-
nai 1 aders, essays, sketches, &c., and newsletters
Communications may be addressed to “ Marco.’
care of Bulletin office. Sydney.
TATTERSALL’S CUP,
NEW YEAR’S DAY, 1884.
No. 1 CONSULTATION.
LINCOURAGED by past successes, I beg to
I announce that I intend having a
SERIES OP CONSULTATIONS
on the above.
No. 1 is now open, and will close at the earliest
possible date.
I must request immediate application, so that
fortunate holders may have a good opportunity
of hedging.
Distribution as follows
First Horse
Second Horse
Third Horse
Starters (divided among)
Non-Starters (divided among)..
£1000
400
200
200
200
£2000
Address—
“JANITOR.”
Care of E. E Jones,
International Hotel, Sydney.
GARTON’S HOTEL,
SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. G. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 346.
m
comfortable teeth
The use of this vaiuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
are thiee kinus, distinguished by a
Yellow,. Green, and lied Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the Vellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to peisons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
gums,decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
drops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they wul not only never sutlei again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound an J white to the end. That
with the Bed is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—2'o guard against fraudulent imitations,
ee that each Label hear* the name, “ Wilcox and
Co., 239 Oxford-street, London.”
m
ASTHMA, GOUGH, BRONCHITIS.
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate relief in
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis,
bnprtness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them invaluable, as they instantly check the
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine V endors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitnti,.,,.
see that each box bears the name of “ Wile ox ami
Go., 289 Oxford-street. London.”
BULL-DOG ALE.—IT is not the cleat _ess
or condition aione in BULL-DOG ALE
that preserves this c rand first in public
estimation. Common bitter crude beers are
made very fine, but no other brand has the
same mellow vinous chaiacter, the fullness on
the palate, and the great l eeping qualities of the
BULL-DOG ALB. Consumers are therefore cau-
tioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred
to as equal in quality to BULL-DOG. CATTELL
& CO., Agents. Newcastle Agents: WOOD
BROTHERS & CO.
AGOLQSSAL TRADE!!!
The following Gentlemen are engaged as
CUTTERS in the
LARGEST and Most EXTENSIVE
Tailoring Establishment
In the Southern Hemisphere.
Some 300 hands are now employed by Messrs.
SUMMER FIELD Ac Co., whose chief
place of business is
235 & 237 |
SYDNEY, with Branches at
NEWCASTLE, DUBBO, WAGGA, and 51 & 53
LEADENHALL-STREET, LONDON, E C.
Mr. H. W. CHAPMAN, the well-known City
Cutter.
Mr. W. FROST, Thirty Years’ Sydney expe-
rience.
Mr. C. PROBYN, of Poole’s, Saville Row,
London.
Mr. H. J. TONKIN, of Tonkin, Sons and Co.,
Bristol.
Mr. R. MORRISBY, Eight Years with Summer-
field and Co.
Mr. CHARLES TAUTZ, of Tautz and Co..
Breeches Makers, Piccadilly.
At Newcastle :
Mr. WALTER RICE, best known Cutter in
Australia.
Mr. W. SHAW.
THE PEOPLE’J TAILORS,
AND GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
Warran ted f irst q u a I i ty ■
v Charges strictly modera te,
MARSHALL BROTHERS
Surgeon dentist* iq 6 marketst e.
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS PERFORMED
WITH SKILL.
Teeth Stopped, and Exttracted Painlessly
ynennue Pleasant, Refreshing,
aUCUUHLj Invigorating.
The nop-a.eoeoi c beverage acts as a brain and
nerve ton e, aud does not intoxicate.
IOEDONE
Is recommenced by the Faculty as a substitute for
wine, Leer and spirits, as it invigorates without
producing any intoxicating effect. In case of
debiln v consequent on a long residence in a hot
climate, it >s of great service, as it acts not only as
a net re stimulant, but also as a permanent tonic
to tne system.
Price per case containing 6 dozen M pints ... 12/8
« •• „ 6 „ 1 „ .. 34/
ELLIOTT BROTHERS,
72 and 74 Pitt-street,
Sydney.
PAINTS.
OILS,
WALL
PAPERS
Office: 330 George-strect.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
1ST N.B. Patterns and Prices sent.
AYER’S
Hair Vigor
restores, with the gloss and freshness of
youth, faded or gray hair to a natural, rich
brown color, or deep black, as may be desired.
By its use light or red hair may be darkened,
thin hair thickened, and baldness often,
though not always, cured.
It checks falling of the hair, and stimu-
lates a weak and sickly growth to vigor. I t
prevents and cures scurf and dandruff, and
heals nearly every disease peculiar to the
SCalp. As a Ladies’ Hair Dressing, the
Vigor is unequalled ; it contains neither oil
nor dye, renders the hair soft, glossy, and
silken in appearance, and imparts a delicate,
agreeable, and lasting perfume.
Mr. C. P. Butcher writes from Kirby, O..
July 3, 1882 : “ Last fall my hair commenced
falling out, and in a short time I became
nearly bald. I used part of a bottle of
Ayer’s Hair Vigor, which stopped the fall-
ing of the hair, and started a new growth. I
have now a full head of hair growing vigor-
ously, and am convinced that but for the
use of your preparation 1 should have been
entirely'bald.”
<T. W. Bowen, proprietor of the McArthur
(Ohio) Enquirer, says : “AVer’s Hair Vigor
is a most excellent preparation for the hair,
I speak of it from my own experience. Its
use promotes the growth of new hair, and
makes it glossy and soft. The Vigor is also
a sure cure for dandruff. Not within my
knowledge has the preparation ever failed
to give entire satisfaction.”
Mr. Angus Fairdairn, leader of the
celebrated “ Fairbairn Family ” of Scottish
Vocalists, writes from Boston, Mass., Feb. 6,
1880: “ Ever since my hair began to give sil-
very evidence of the change which fleeting
time procureth, I have used AVer’s Hair
Vigor, and so have been able to maintain
an appearance of youthfulness —a matter of
considerable consequence to ministers, ora-
tors, actors, and in fact every one who lives
in the eyes of the public.”
Mrs. O. A. Prescott, writing from 18 Elm
St., Charlestown, Mass., April 14, 1882, says:
“ Two years ago about two-thirds of my hair
came off. It thinned very rapidly, and I was
fast growing bald. On using Ayer’s Hair
Vigor the falling stopped and a new growth
commenced, and in about a month my head
was completely covered with short hair. It
has continued to grow, and is now as good as
before it fell. 1 regularly used but one bottle
of the Vigor, but now use it occasionally as
a dressing.”
We have hundreds of similar testimonials
to the efficacy of Ayer’s Hair Vigor. It
needs but a trial to convince the most skepti-
cal of its value.
prepared by
Dp.J C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists.
ELLIOTT BRO a , S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
BT" i’HB PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. 2v£stfu.red.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY,
IS UNSURPASSED,
It is bottled in bond for Exy rt at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, t. refore, rely that if
has not been in the hands of “ hiskey Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that you get It, look for the
trade mark J, in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
I3T 308 GEORGE STREET.
1 --
°^ScoltWi*^
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TER8,
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
’ MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
ameb before uotJSTASH-1 aad 77EI3EEES. »efohe after
Boyd's Beard THxir did thin, and
will do it on cither bald head or
bare fare. Forces heavy J/on*
ta> he in/romSto 4 weeks and v< ver
fails, 2> ,000 young wen already*
wear full beards , having used 1 to Copyrighted.
3 pkts. JVb injury t easily applied, certain in effert. Packets 1«. 6 d.
each, 3 for 3«. 6 d.,post paid, sent under cover, free from observation•
1 ddress, Fraak Douglas, Hole Agent, Box TM, O.P.O., Sydney,N.B. W-
Copyrighted.
Sewing Machines.
Do not buy, until you carefully examine the
New No. 7.
Among the Ancient Hebrews this Number signified
COMPLETENESS and PERFECTION.
The Ancient Syrians used it to express
FULLNESS AND PERFECT SATISFACTION.
SEVEN is also regarded as a Lucky Number, and he who
buys the AMERICAN ” ~
SURELY GETS A
No. 7
PRIZE.
Recognizing the peculiar fitness of this application, we
have called our new Machine
THE NUMBER SEVEN,
to indicate its Perfect Completeness, and because we believe
it will Fully and Perfectly Satisfy our Patrons.
RETAIL DEPOT :
567a GEORGE STREET
(BRICKFIELD HILL). SYDNEY.
G
IBBS, BRIGHT & CO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
ADELAIDE. BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN
1S3K gibbI'Isons,Sj,& v n eepool **• bbistol -
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
INSURANCE SOCIETY OF^ANTO^-H^adOfflce: HONGKONG.
S?T?lSS- ers (Lfmited), Manchester-The celebrated “ Otto ” Silent Gas Engines
Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &c &c
Thos. Glover and Company, London-Paten! Dry Gas Meters. ’ *’ * C *
Vivian and Sons—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penyrorsedd Slate Company (Limited)—Bangor Slates.
The Quicksilver Mining Company, San Francisco—Quicksilver.
Fels and Company, of Patras and Corf u—Currants.
Thos. Bell and Co.—English Hams, Bacon, &c., &c. *
n« Company, Victoria-Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, &c.
De ftayange, France-Bar. Rod. and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plates. Iron and
Thos. Perry and Sou, Bilston—Fire-resisting Safes. Drvbrough and Co Pninhnmh a i
Brunton and Co.. Redruth-Patent Safety fuse. Wine 6 '
Dubes Freres, Bordeaux-Clarets, Chablls, Sautemes o” wme *
XT q ttt COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES
JiKa Mhf Co AM8 -~ SGOtt aDd MuUaly ’ T ****** F - J - °' Co., Cox Bros.. Graham Bros.
Victoria.— James Fryand Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
South Australia.—w. G. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hindu.
»y INDENTS executed, on the most favourable terms from ah nnr+. ,,, _
of produce received for shlpSt to 1 Consl * nment «
o oor
&
THE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO.
are tlm largest consumers of Americai
i| >n the colonies, hence the ETRS r
position for quality is assigned to their Twis
and Flat Tobaccos— Yankee Doodle, Conqueror, Sir Roger (thicl
twist), R. C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture, and others.
!?lQAllBTTli8,-rhmT CONQUEROR and EARLY BI r D hold an equal position
*STD. k S.. Importers of Pipes of every kind. Cigars, and all Tobacconists* Fancy Goods and SundrieJ


Robert butcher & co.
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
N
ORMANBY STAKES, 1884.
LEVIATHAN “ADAMASTOR” COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £3,500, in 5000 SHARES of 10s. Each
190 PRIZES, £1335 for HORSES, and £1375 for
iaur * ’ STARS, &c.
Plan of Astronomical Distribution:
Sffie. 9 " 125 TMrddo. 0 ’ VI 100
"EXZSSS £30each? 13stars of £10eacS
35 stars of £5 each, £135; 50 stars and towns
of £4 each, £300.
“ Adamastor ” begs most respectfully to inform
his numerous patrons that he thanks them for the
Phpral support that he has received, and herewith
submits a P programme similar to that of last year a
C AU pirtiSa e rerlquested to forward drafts,P.0
orders, or cheques ; if cheques, exchange must be
added and in all cases postage fees.
a Registered letters only wifi beaccepted.
Annlication, by letter only, addressed Adamas-
tor of L. A. Pereira,34 Bourke-street west,
Melbourne. P.S.-Results sent to every share-
holder. Notice—Sydney agency has been closed.
The ELDRED'G E*
\Correspondence Solicited
■WITH RESPONSIBLE PARTIES
■ FOB THE LEADING ,
SEWOO MACHINE OF THE WORLD, i
I Pull particulars, catalogue and prices I
* .mailed on application I
e SEWING MACHINE C0. »
HAVING just completed extensive alterations
to our premises, we are better prepared
than last year to exhibit our
CHRISTMAS
and
NEW YEAR CARDS.
fJTBG
We cordially invite our friends and customers
to inspect our large and well-selected stock.
Note address — . „ , , .
JOHN CANTERILL, 335 Oxford-street.
iMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR OF THE
ZULU WAR.
Nev^awtle— 19th November to December 3.
Mafliand— December6th. . .
Sydney to follow, with George Gordon s magni-
ficent
DIORAMA OF THE EGYPTIAN WAR I
W. H. THOMPSON, Proprietor.
SYL. RYAN, Agent.
SEASON’S CARDS.- XMAS, NEW YEAR.
FRIENDSHIP, BIRTHDAY, and NICE
PICTURES for Scrap Books, made up in packages,
at Is., 2s., 3s., and 4s., per dozen, good value. Xmas
and Birthday, good cards, 6d., 9d., Is., Is 2s
2s. 6d., and 3s., each, post paid. GEORGE
WALLACE, 63, William-street.
MOULTON’S PAIN PAiNT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUM A flS.'M,
t JRALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOPHAC IE,
RAINS, BRUISES, r?URNS. SCALP *, &c and
internally cures DIARRHCE A, T /SEX Jti Y,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other .uterus aches
nd pains. - ™
tPrice, 3/- Sold Everywiflere.
C. E. MOULTON, sole prop : m
IVT E B BOX! BIST U -A-ISTB -dney.
PAINT
i
9k ,
marx -
*1
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT.-Thls favourite brano
of Stout selected with great care from the
best of the brewings of the celebrated firm ot
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
cannot be excelled. To be procured everywhere,
rj ATTRT.T, * CO.. Role Arent*
Mf*
TONIC NERVINE
RECKSrEftBO. ,
i SAFE, certain, and speedy cure for Nervous
\ and General Debility, and all complaints taat
Sring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
’oothaehe, Nervousness, Indigestion. Loss of
ippetite. Liver and Kidney Complaints. General
•rostration, &«. By its tonic and s jotmag etf'Ccs
; at once removes all craving for Alcohol. By its
ichness in phosphorous and other powerful vital
dug elements it nourishes aad gives t *
lie whole system. Price, to. M- Sold eveni where
ol« Proprietors, MARSHALL
4.P.8.. Pharmacists, 104 and 106
tear Hyde Park, Sydney. N.B.—All imitations
LkffaL
Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION).
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
a favourite* r6m©dy. W© ail suffer Dior©
or less from liver complaint, thereby hindering
other organs from fulfilling their functions. Set
the liver in order by taking the remedy, and
heart, lungs, brain, and stomach will unite m
graceful chorus.
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The true invigorator. If your vital forces are
depressed, if you have a feeling of general I 8 ® 1 '
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of ooming
disaster, your liver is unequal to its work. x<
obviate aU these symptoms tnere is no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABRAHAM’S FILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion 01
the maladies and ailments attacklng the human
frame are really due to a disordered Liver. Set hi
irgan in order and health returns as if by mag.~.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC,
as there are imitations, ask for ABRAHAM t
PILLS. See that each box, by whomsoever sot.,
bears the Inventor’s name and trade mark. or
Geor|fe street, Sydney.
W. H. PALING,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
- .
*
=^r
---■S'
EASY TERMS SYSTEM I™ INSTRUMENT.
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC,
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIAKD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON.-The
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftenei
you try it the more you like it.
s. HOrFNUNO & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
m
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ys in STOCK, foi SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY.
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HA RD WARE.
GLASS, CHINA.
AND
EARTHENWA HE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE
Agents foi
JOHN WALKER ano SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Sob" 1 ops and Geneva.
> nd SONS
u Pale t.
papers angi J GS!
; with
DADOES. BORDERS,
FRIEZES to ' .ai
NURSER i iERS.
CEILING CENTRES,
figures, scenes. &c.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwick,
381 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS' & DECORATORS' MERCHANT.
Genuine White nead, Oils, Paints, Colours. Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &c.
p. KIKBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TJ n. d.erta,Hs:ex,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N B —Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr.* James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also.
Manager for over ten GO) years.
EUR
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
THE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco of the Ago !
DESTINED TO ECLiPSB AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The oi y Tobacco com Dining Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Price.
Each PLUG is STAMPED with the word
“EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain )t
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
Ant can be obtained wholesale at their W arehouse
Park-street. Sydney.
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO,
Registered according to Aet of Parliament, to pro-
tect the public against spurious and worthless
imitations.
OZEBO"
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.,
THE BEST MAKERS IN THE WORLD,
AT EXTRAORDINARY LOW PRICES.
W. H. PALIBTCSr,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
BRISCOE , DRYSDALE & C0. f
1H, IIBI, 111 MB MEK0IMI5,
397 GEORGE STREET,
5P and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
and at
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ Tools, Founders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery Coach
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricultural
Implements.
engines
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed,
-
r.
id
<-r,
f
fm
: -■
PUMPS.
Special Steam, Centrifugal, and
Force and Lift.
BOILERS.
Vertical and Horizontal.
MACHINERY.
. .. Drilling Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting and Screwing
Lathes, St Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY.
a Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret Saws. Genera
Saw Bene and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam-power.
English and American Agricultural Implements.
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
Coach .HHHHXK-A.dgj, Sprtog.,]«-»} B'uml.Ung,. Varnahe* and
Large Stocks always on hand of Rolled foists! ’ r ° n ’ G alvanlzed ’ Corrugated.
Squatters’ Supplies.
Woolpackt, Sheep Shears. Oils. Raddle, Wire, Sheep Washing and Dam Making
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Looks, Hinges, Nails, Screws. Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Carpenters’ Tools.
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND CO..
397 George Street, Sydney.
18


Youb Xmas Wine Orders should bo
booked early to insure delivery. Hookings and
Co., 143 Pitb-street *
Mb. DbCourct Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert. Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva ©hambers, 126 Pitt-streot, Sydney.
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Department undertaken. Titles a
speciality.—Advx.
Noah's Ark.— Messrs. John Brissmead and
Sons, the celebrated Pianoforte Manufacturers, of
London, have purchased the Ark, just discovered
at Mount Ararat. This will be a further guarantee
as to their woods being well seasoned. Their
agent are Hoyle and Co., of Bond-street, where
the latest Novelties In Pianos, may now be seen
at very moderate prices.*
a tumble-down tenement near the Argyle
Cut, and came to a stoppage in the shadow
of a tall fence, 'two of tne occupants of the
vehicle got out hei e, and stood by the wheel
of the cart, while the driver, standing up,
peered cautiously over the palisade. “ All
right?” said one of the two, interrogatively.
“All right.”
“Weh, it’s a wonder,” said the first
speaker; “ I wouldn’t ha’ been surprised if
he’d ’a busted the bloomin’ roof off.”
“ Reg’lar tiger, ain’t he, Ike ?” remarked
the man in the cart.
“If you’d have felt his grip like I did,
Jim, you’d wouldn’t have needed to answer
the question,” said Ike, sulkily.
They were three rocgh-looking fellows,
who looked halt sailors and half wharf-
lumpers, but who in reality were sailors’
boarding masters—men who made money
out of Jack when he had any, and kidnapped
him for a consideration when he had none.
The first speaker, whose name appeared to
be Hans, took a key from his pocket, and
undid a small wicket gate in the fence, which
was fastened with a staple and a padlock.
They then entered a yard, in the centre of
which, and surrounded by mounds of every
conceivable kind of rubbish, was a small
brick structure, which had, in years gone
by, been used as a dead-house. On reaching
the building, both listened intently at the
door.
“ Asleep,” said Hans.” “ Open the door.”
A heavy key turned in the lock, the door
■wung open, and the figure of Stanley was
i created lying motionless on the pallet.
A match was struck, and his bonds were
seen lying out beside him. The men’s action
on beholding this was sudden and decisive.
They threw themselves upon Cartright,
f unioned his arms behind, and thrust a gag
nto his mouth. He made no sign, however,
his breathing being scarcely perceptible.
To support him out, and place him in the
vehicle, was the work of a very few
moments, and the other men having re-
sumed their seats, the horse was put into a
fast trot, and in a few moments the cart
drew up at a landing stage, at which, ready
manned, a boat was waiting.
Although dazed and stupifled, the sharp
action of the morning air had revived
htanley to the extent of his being able to
discern the objects about him Of physical
power, however, he had none. He saw him-
self transferred from the cart to the boat,
and placed in the stern sheets with two
other men, one of whom had a chest, and
the other a bag. The order was given them
them to start, and about a quarter of an hour
later the boat glided up to the companion-
ladder of a large ship anchored in a mill-
stream.
“Sharp’s the word,” cried the coxswain;
and Stanley felt himself carried bodily up
and laid down upon the ship’s deck.
Then a well-known authoritative voice
cried—
“Who dared bring a man on board in this
state? Show a light here.”
Th ire was a running to and fro, and
presently Stanley looked up and saw a man
whose face seemed to be familiar, bending
over him with a large lantern.
“Why, what’s this?” he cried. “Stand
back there and give him air, while I call the
captain.”
Dimmer and dimmer grew Cartright’s
powers of perception, and it was not until an
hour later that he once more was capable of
comprehending what was going on around
him. Then, when he opened his eyes, he
found himself lying upon a luxurious bed in
the stern cabin of a large ship. And stand-
ing by his bedside, holding each one of his
Eoor bruised hands in theirs, were Hester
[anton and Captain William Morley.
He had been kidnapped and taken on
board the Crofton Castle.
There remains but little to be told. Im-
mediately on Captain Morley presenting
himself upon the scene at The Grange, sus-
pecting something to be wrong, he had
demanded on behalf of his friend Stanley
Cartright an explanation from Blumenthal.
That gentleman had replied by ordering the
captain to leave his house that instant.
Under these circumstances he could do
nothing but request Miss Manton to put
herself under his protection until some news
could be gathered of Stanley, of whose
extraordinary disappearance Hester had in-
formed him immediately after his opportune
arrival Their Christmas Eve was passed in
a fruitless search, and they had only just
reached the ship a few minutes before
Stanley’s arrival in the character of a
drugged and impressed sailor.
Of what avail to chronicle the joy of that
Christmas Day; to write of i ow the three
had the festive banquet together, the poor
bruised pressman, what with love and
bruises, making but a feeble chairman. All
this you can imagine, dear readers, and also
the marriage by special license next day,
and the departure for Melbourne after
watching the last of the Crofton Castle as
she was towed outside the Heads, and loosed
her white wings for her homeward flight.
And what became of Mr. Blumenthal? is
now the general chorus. Well, no, dear
blue-eyed and golden-haired readers, he was
neither hanged and transported The last
we heard of him was that he gave away the
prizes at a large suburban college in the
afternoon, having, by way of enhancing the
moral tone of the city general.y, sentenced
a boy to six months’ hard labour for stealing
a farthing's-worth of flowers in the morn-
ing. He will put up for Parliament by and
bye,Jand inwall probability we shall vote for
him ourselves.
One word more before the curtain de-
scends upon the drama. If you happen,
any of you, to be in Melbourne, and are
asked to an unusually high-toned ball, look
about you until you mark a tall, graceful
lady, who is wearing a necklace composed
of a sovereign, a louis d’or, an American
'agle, a tarnished lalse sovereign, depend-
ing from a golden chain. Pay particular
ntfention to both, the lady and the jewel.
For the wearer will be none other than
Hester Car trig® t, and the ornament
fashioned out of that very identical
Ghostly Gold.
At the late election for Mayor of Christ-
church, Mr. Hulbert, the successful candidate, was
fiercely opposed by certain good people on the
ground that he was a Freethinker, if not an
Atheist. To this circumstance Mr. Hulbert was
indebted for the very large majority he polled
over his opponent. The time has fortunately gone
P7 'yhen a cry of this sort has any weight in an
intelligent community. So long as a Mayor looks
well after the affairs of the city which elects him,
the inhabitants, if civilized, do not care a rap what
his religious views may be. All the religions and
creeds in the world will not make a dirty drain
discharge its contents up-hill. What the citizens
want in a. Mayor is a certain decree of common
sense, sufficient education to make him fit for the
position, some knowledge of sanitary laws, a
character for uprightness and hospitality, and
after that he can indulge in any religious extrava-
gance that best suits his particular complexion.
The law will see that he is not a Mormon—at least
in the matter of wives.
News of Mr. Milner Stephen comes to us
from far Toowoomba. He is at present exhibiting
in glass bottles cancers he removed from afflicted
patients. There is a foreign practitioner in Sand-
hurst, famous for his antipathy to cancers, but ho
“ merely an apprentice compared with Mr.
Stephen. As the Pied Piper of Hamelin had
merely to blow a blast in order to bring the chil-
dren tumbling out of their houses to follow him,
so Mr. Stephen has only to spread his fingers over
a cancer, look roofwards, mutter something—
whether a prayer or imprecation, none can tell—
and the cancer bids good-bye to the living flesh,
gathers its roots round it like the tentacles of an
octopus, and forges steadily ahead until it tumbles
helplessly into the bottle Mr, Stephen has ready to
receive it. But it is not to these abnormal growths
alone that he devotes bis attention. Congenital
blindness,, “ bursting of all the smaller blood
vessels, causing the patient’s face to be perfectly
blue,’ paralysis, rheumatism, deafness, hydro-
cephalus, and freckles disappear at his approach
As a remedial agent, the laying on of hands is by
no means so novel as some suppose. We once
derived benefit from it (and so did society, it was
whispered) under circumstances it would be
tedious to detail. In our case the operator was a
policeman, and his hand was the heaviest we re-
member since our parent interviewed us years ago
over a missing shaving-brush.
The Phenomenal House of Trade in
Australia.— Any stranger who happened last
Saturday to he in the great Palace Emporium of
Anthony Hordern and Sons, Haymarket, would
have fancied himself in the biggest house of
business in London, or the famous house of
Stewart and co., in New York. Where the popula-
tion came from would have appeared to be a
mystery, and it might have been fairly asked
whether Anthony Hordern and Sons had taken the
contract to su ply all the wants of our rapidly
increasing community. But the fact is—though
the present Christmas season increases the number
—the ralace Emporium has each day from year to
year a great moving throng of purchasers and
visitors, who come not only from every nart of
the city and suburbs by tram and ’bus, but from
all parts of the railway suburbs and from the
interior towns of the colony. It would be
Interesting to speculate whether this great
business is the result of design or the
natural development of a splendidly-planned
arrangement. The rise and progress of this great
firm may possibly be properly ascribed to both
causes, for the record of its growth from small
premises to the palatial acreage of warehouses is
one of continual development, ic the eompletest
harmony with the growth of our population and
trade. The great aim of the firm appears to have
been to make use of an enormous capital to pur-
chase in all the markets of the world and sell in
Sydney at prices with which it would be almost
impossible to compete. There can be no other
explanation for the national popularity of this
freat Palace Emporium. People are quick to
earn where they can buy to the best advantage,
no matter how large or small the transaction; and
it is a natural thing that these advantages should
be so often spoken of—so often communicated
from one person to another —that the solid
truth should come to be fastened on people’s
minds at last, and the enterprise of Messrs.
Anthony Hordern and Sons recognised in
the fullest and most substantial manner. In
writing a description of a business of such colos-
sal proportions as the Palace Emporium, one
has to leave the minor details suited to other busi-
ness and deal with the total results, which are
adequate for all purposes of comparison and
estimate. Messrs. Hordern and Sons combine in
their business every branch of industry affecting
colonial life, in this way ranging right alongside
tho famous business of A. Stewart and Co., New
York, which firm, however, in comparison with
the population, do nothing of the business enjoyed
by Messrs. Anthony Hordern and Sons. The
principal lines include furniture, drapery,clothing,
boots and shoes, toys, crockery, and earthenware,
&c., hardware, ironmongery, the art and decora-
tive branches, &c. &c., the whole occupying about
three and a quarter acn s of floor space. The
general business is subdivided into numerous
departments, each with a splendid system of
service and control, the work proceeding from
day to day, no matter how great the crush, with
the greatest facility, comfort, and regularity. At
the present time each department has been
supplied with attractive novelties for Christmas
—an undertaking which does not mean an outlay
of a few hundreds, but of over £55,000. The aver-
age attendance of the public is between 6000 and
7000 per day, and the average cash takings over
the counter are between £3000 and £4000 per day.
Last Saturday—and the phenomenon will continue
throughout the Christmas season—the cash tak-
ings represented a trifle over £7000. It can easily
be judged from this, that Anthony Hordern and
Sons, having such an enormous dally cash return,
can afford to take the very lowest profits all the
5 r ear round, in every branch of their business,
giving the public the benefit of the use of an
enormous capital. One thing might be noted by
every reader of this notice. A person can furnish
throughout with Anthony Hordern and Sons,
saving, thereby, at least £30 in £100, which is a big
matter in these days of artizan and p ofessional
competition; The ladies’ department this year is
furnished with season ihle goods of a character not
previously seen in the colonies, and as to the
figures—well, they are astounding. One can hardly
imagine where and how the labour is rendered
remunerative in the production of such beautiful
goods at such a low figure. Another feature by
means of which Messrs. Anthony Hordern and
Sons attract the whole Juvenile world is their great
line of Christmas toys and useful presents. All
these goods were purchased on the spot where they
were manufactured in France and elsewhere on
the Continent. Altogether, employment is given
to about 600 bands in ore capacity or another ; and
all the assistants dine on the premises in the ex-
tensive rooms on the topmosc floor of the Palace
Emporium. The members of the firm are Messrs.
Anthony and Samuel Hordern. The former is now
in England, superintending the buying—but, as
the cable informs us, he has time and enterprise
enough left to invest £100,000 In the great settle-
ment scheme in Western Australia. The Sydney
business is under the management of Mr. Samuel
Hordern, who recently returned from a two years’
European and American tour. No;two other men
of their «ge in this country have been so signally
successful. While many men have left the colony
either taking with them their capital roll or spend-
ing it uselessly abroad, wher not a penny of it
was earned, Messrs. Anthony and Samuel Hordern
ha ve invested their fortunes in founding a business
which may be truly regarded asof national import-
ance and patriotic significance.
It is often remarked that an Englishman
is very unclannish —in fact, frequently favours
foreigners above his own nation. But this charac-
teristic trait, we think, is to be envied rather than
deprecated. The more cosmopolitan our ideas,
the sooner may be consummated that glorious
epoch in our history, the federation of the Austra-
lian colonies—and even of the whole world, in
peace and amity. Anglo-Saxon vigour never flags
in its high mission of civilization, but ever presses
onward, carving its path through rock. But such
a tremendous strain must tell on some of the rank
and file. Scientists tell us, whtit ordinary obser-
vation too truly confirms—namely, that the day is
arriving when we shall be a toothless race. It is
true, eve'* then, Art, with her cunning contri-
vances, rushes to the rescue of defecting nature.
We shall be most happy to show anyone some
magnificent specimens of mechanical dentistry,
the sole work of Mr. C. Marshall, who, having con-
fined himself lor years to this special study, and
resided in England and America, combines in them
the faithful workmanship ef the best English den-
tists with the marvellous discoveries of American
enterprise. But, however perfect the substitutes,
prevention is better than cure; and the teeth,
among many other natural organs, too palpably
indicate that something is needed to combat the
terrible wear and tear of modern life. Now,
Marshall’s Tonic Nervine, by its richness in phos-
phorous and other powerful vitalising elements,
Eromotes appetite, and feeds every organ of the
ody, builds up the bony structure, supplies the
substance of which the teeth are formed, strength-
ens the nerves and muscular system, creates brain
power, and gives vigour to the entire human
organisation. Sold everywhere. Sole proprietors
—Marshall Brothers, M.P.S., 104 and 106 Market-
street, near Hyde Park, Sydney.
King Kidman.
There can be no doubt, in fact, It Is admitted all
round, that the only man in Sydney who has gone
into the grocery and provision line to supply a
whole population is Mr. James Kidman. It was
through the instrumentality of this house that the
great reductions in the grocery line, effected some
years ago, took place, and it is some indication of
the extent of the business thus won, to find that,
ever since this, the house has controlled the whole
grocery trade of Sydney and its suburbs. The
great premises at George and Market streets,
are well *nown as the centre of a very large
business—the largest by lar anywhere in the city.
Great as these premises were, however, Mr.
Kidman found himself compelled to erect
a new great retail warehouse in that populous
quarter. Oxford-street, whence the whole of East
Sydney, Paddington, Waverley, Randwick, Surry
and Strawberry Hills, &c,, could obtain their sup-
plies. The house rises to the height of five
storeys, and, as it stands on the highest part of
Sydney, it is to be seen from every point of the
city, the 19ft. lettering on the great wall being
decipherable miles away. Everyone knows the
business which Mr. James Kidman has done for
years in Oxford-street; well, these new premises
were intended to afford greater accommodation,
ind, certainly, they give it. The front shop is of
extraordinary dimensions, having nearly 80ft. of
countering on one side, and 50ft. on the other, the
main counter being richly polished, with mirror-
glass panels. Spacious shelves extend from
door to ceiling, and the show-windows are of
great cap city. Every single article in the gro-
cery or provision line is here obtainable, and the
figures show a saving to the householder of from
.45 to 30 per cent. It is as well here to state that
Mr. James Kidman, who also undertakes great
Government contracts, makes the biggest invest-
ment in groceries of any one man in Australia,
oftentimes clearing the whole market of exten-
sive lines. Thus obtaining great concession, he is
enabled to share the profit with the public. Some
idea as to whnt extent this is done may bo obtained
from a view of the various floors of the new
warehouse, where are stocked enormous lines of
goods—Christmas supplies, of course, being the
main items just now. A splendid goods lift runs
from top to bottom of the building, greatly facili-
tating operations on every floor. The premises
nave a through depth to another street,
and off this rear street there is a dray way or
porch at the basement, and here the lilt operates
with great speed and advantage, the goods being
received and stored with great expedition. Mr.
Kidman announces special attractions for the
Christmas season, and special Christmas reductions
on all lines of goods a concession which is already
being availed by some thousands of householders,
who know that they can at Kidman’s great house
get good quality at the lowest possible figure.
Cole's Christmas Cards.
In a previous issue reference was made to the fact
that a big special shipment of Christmas cards and
novelties per Cuzco was to be exhibited at Mr.
E. it, Cole’s well-known establishment. King and
George-streets. The whole of this large consign-
ment has now been opened, and an inspection in
every way justifies the fact announced—that they
would eclipse all exhibits m this line previously
shown. The collection comprises near upon a
thousand varieties with different subdivisions, and
certainly the display is most charming. The designs
are so varied that every clime and almost every
class of person appears to have been specially
catered for; so that no matter whether the cards
are selected for production in the colony or for de-
spatch beyond the shores of Australia, designs of
the most chaste and appropriate character can be
obtained. And the surprise is how such artistic
productions can be sold at the price. Take the
cards at 12s. 6d. in a neat case, here we have as
many as five hand-painted floral artistic sketches
on rich satin, the front panel being richly em-
bossed in the same material, and so on. Whether
the cards run at 2s. 6d. or £3 3s., there is some-
thing so extraordinarily artistic about them that
any of the cards may be preserved as real gems of
art. This year Mr. Cole has hand-painted sketches
of Australian flora in all varieties of cards, in pink
and white and violet satin, on plush, ivory, gela-
tine, &c., and there is likewise a host of cards
representing many views all round picturesque
Sydney. There is in the collection a splendid
assortment of birthday cards, and for > ariety of
Christmas presents there are fine, plain, and
illuminated musical albums, the figures being
lower even than the wholesale prices. This point
Mr. Cole desires to be particularly noticed. He
sees no reason why his excellent display of cards
should not be available to people resident in the
country. He will therefore, on being communi-
cated with, make a selection for despatch per
parcel or book post to any house or home in any
part of Australia. Mr. Cole’s wide and expanding
country business, per parcel post, is a guarantee
that country patrons will be liberally and faithfully
dealt with. As to people resident in the city, an
early call is advisable, the demand already being
great. The entire stock of Christmas cards and
birthday and Christmas presents represents close
upon £4000, so that there can be no lack of novelty
or variety.
“He glared around the Room.”—See page 12.


Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above Is Rum made hot
and taken at bad-time.
|y PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6s. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Stills lipiilusil,
jdABKBT STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET,
where you can obtain for
ScL.
A GLASS OP WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
Thb most Wholesome of all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELISH WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. 6d. per bottle,
c. w. ROBERTS
Market Street, Sydney.
The Rates of Sotscbiption to The Bulletin
are _p 0 r one year, 24s.: hall-yea , ua. oa..
Quarter, 6s. 6d. —In advance. . . .
The Advertising Kates are 5e. P er ,, ,^ ’
snecial positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows .—On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions
15 per cent.: For 53 consecutive insertions, 35 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, it more convenient.
THE NEWSLETTER.
The Jesuit fathers have 175 places of
worship in Madagascar. Hicks should certainly
emigrate there, and start 175 opposition Orange
lodges.
During the week ending 28th ultimo, 25o
official rahbiters killed 5158 bunnies : that s an
average of a little over three rabbits per diem per
man. At this rate of progress, the rabbit will be
an extinct vermin airca a.d. 20,000.
The Echo says Switzerland has an avail-
able army of 250,000, maintained at the cost ot
£1,000,000 a year. The above figures require cor-
rection. By latest returns, the
eluding Landwehr) only numbers 215,000 men au
told, maintained at a cost of £643,000. Mem.; The
Swiss military school is a source of revenue to tne
Republic.
Pat. Tierney went to a pub..
Gate way on the Prince of Wales s Birthday, wit
£19 in his kick. After a week’s, spree he left
(“perfectly sober,” says Mr. Bonlftme), wlth£ •
We are confident it will surprise nobody to learn
that a few hours subsequently to his perfectly
sober departure from the convivial up B g
Gate way hostelry Pat died a miserable and de-
graded death.”
Red-tapeism at Gundagai! “Dr. Bla ° r f
Informs us (the El worthy) that : heihas been ap-
pealed to, in his capacity of Government (^ edicai
Officer, to attend a (Hack gin, known ffiess
but he cannot do any6hmar m the matter unless
instructed by the Police One would
have thought that a Government medical officer
might have waived routine, and attended jenny
as a man and a brother.
“ Only a blasted nigger I” Ay oung fellow
named Edwards, whilst coming from Mr. Bond s
selection towards the Pandora plantation (N.Q.)»
came across the half dingo-eaten corpse ot a
Kanaka whose hands were tied behind ms oaca
with a rope. Peculiar statements re the treatment
of the Kanaka were recently published in a N.Q.
exchange. So far as this particular Kanaka is
concerned, “ Pandora” is a for
the locality; There was hope at the bottom ot
Pandora’s box I
The Northern Territory Times protests
with much reason scriberidi
against the practice of Customs officials being
allowed to participate in the penalties in-
flicted under the Customs Statute, as a practice
tending to induce the said officials to lay infor-
mation for mere technical breaches of the Act.
Since, at present, the practice presses mainly on
the Chinky, it is not likely that the authorities will
Interfere (unless the “ Mongolian Cowner inter-
vene) to spoil the Palmerstoman officials little
game of legal, though scarcely equitable, loot.
Master-in-Equity Holroyd has succeeded
(as he confidently believes) in proving that wheat,
entirely free from rust, may be grown in the
of Cumberland. He, at all events, has
Just reaped several acres of wheat .entirely devoid
of rust. We dare say he wishes the Equity Office
was as free from official rust. According to many
a rumour, it is;n a very unsatisfactory condition.
No dipping in bluestone or other chemical solu-
tion secured the old seed from rust. The wrinkle
that led to success was the use of new seed.
Herein is an allegory for Cohen ; To get the rust
out of the Equity Department, use new—men.
Land speculation has broken out virulently
In the Bay of Plenty, N.Z. The prospect of & rail-
way from Tauranga to Opotiki has caused afresh
outbreak of ground fever, and the poor Maoris
are pestered to death with land-agents, inter-
preters, missionaries, touters, loafers, lawyers,
and all the thousand and one sharks who hang
around the Native Land Courts. Interpreters and
land-agents no longer carry their swags and boil
their own billies while travelling the country.
They now ride in carriages or on horseback, each
attended by a live J.P. ready to swear to anything
done in the way of circumventing the heathen.
One Hicks {suggestive name!) is awaiting
his trial at Port Macquarie on the charge of
threatening the life of Stipendiary M’Kell. The de-
fendant is alleged to have been heard to say that he
was as good as any blooming stipendiary or.beak
thatif any blooming justice interfered with him, he
would shoot or poison the blanked wretch-and
that he considered it would be a meritorious act
to boil our Gracious Sovereign Lady Queen Vic-
toria In a chaldron of boiling lead.' Hicks, it is
stated, is identical with the young medico who
made South Australia too hot for him on account
of certain questionable operations in the lite-
insurance market.
A custom has sprung up of late years of
the post offices in different parts of the world
sending their Christmas compliments to one
another on-fancy cards. We don’t suppose it does
any harm. Somebody has kindly given us one ot
the Sydney cards, just issued by the G.P.O., for
despatch to other postage stamp emporiums. It
is a folding card, desperately gay, containing
photos of the post and telegraph offices at Orange,
Goulburn, Forbes, Kiama, and the post offices at
Albury and West Maitland. The only photo, we
don’t see is that of the G.P.O., Sydney, where, we
understand the gay young sparks in the Dead
Letter depot curl themselves up and quiver with
the fun they get out of some of the girls letters,
and the Postmaster-General upstairs works away
putting gum on the stamps with a gold-handled
brush.
Instead’of “Judge and jury,” we beg to
suggest as a more topically correct phrase ‘ Judge
veTsus jury.” When a jury acquits a prisoner, is
it conformable to the theory which is supposed to
underlie trial by jury that the Judge, in discharg-
ing the accused, should tell him that he s infer-
nally lucky to have got off, and that he’d better
not do it again ? When the value of the jury s
“notguilty” is besmirched by some truculent
observation of a Judge, we think that the dis-
charged should have a remedy against His Honor.
Only last week, a Sydney jury, on just and equit-
able grounds, acquitted an ill-used wife of the
charge of unlawfully abandoning and exposing a
child Their verdict was improperly embittered
to the poor wretch by the Judge’s “ unprincipled”
remark that if she did the same thing again she
would most certainly be tried and very probably
be convicted.
It is not so much mongoose versus rabbit
as the “rabbiter” versus the mongoose. As
two of a trade never agree, the rabbiter natur-
ally regards the imported mongoose as his enemy,
hence he’ll trap him and slay him, whenever and
wherever he can. For the Government to be im-
porting the mongoose at considerable cost in order
to furnish a “quarry” for the rabbiter (main-
tained at a still more considerable cost) is about
the most expensive instance of burning the candle
at both ends we’ve heard of for a long while.
David Chrystal, of Mulurula, taking for his text
the fact that the recent tally of a trapper on the
Manfred run was 14 cats, 11 iguanas, and (only) 13
rabbits, points out with obvious truth “ that we
are destroying everyone of the natural enemies ot
tbe rabbit, and unless something is done, and at
once, we shall be facing an outlay that all the
squatters on the land and the Treasury will not be
able to meet.” That’s it I The abbott(heosis) of
the rabbiter, eh f
It is a very curious affair, this Criminal
Law Amendment Act of N.S.W. According to its
provisions, a boy may be imprisoned for life for
guying a policeman, while a burglar gets off with
a caution, or perhaps a present-or very nearly.
The other day, a poor woman was fined 5s. at the
Police Court for some petty offence. She could
not pay the fine—there are some people who have
not five shillings. She had, therefore, to go to
gaol for twenty-one days. This Alternative was
strictly in accordance with the Act. Taking it as
a standard whereby to judge of alternatives to
fines in treneral, we suppose a man who was fined
ten shiUiugs would get forty-two days. And so
< til prisoners who were fined in hundreds or
thousand- would be kept in gaol till ten million
years after tne General Resurrection. Yet, no—
when a man reaches thousands, he is exempt from
ordinary law. The Act does not probably provide
lor such, and. If it does, it probably leaves the
Judge the discretion of asking the prisoner to
dinner. Seeing that, for each person kept a week
in gaoi, the Government is at the expense ofat
least a pound, our morality seems to oe 3U8t a
little too expensive for what it is worth.
At Port Augusta, S.A., water is a valuable
commodity. In every issue of the local papers
appear advertisements warning teamsters ana
drovers that they will be prosecuted if they water
their stock at the dams or wells of country gra
ziers Even the country publicans advertise, not
only that they sell spirits, but specially that a
good supply of water is constantly laid on. One
hotelkeeper, who seems to have laid in a stock of
beer, evidently has found out this necessity, tor
he advertises in hopeful doggerel thus
“ oh, come my noble teamsters, and load all your
roans
You will soon get plenty of water
In the new well lately sunk by Jones.
“ It belongs to Yudnapinnl Station,
Five miles from Gibson’s Camp;
It’s a boon to every teamster and swagman on
the tramp.
“ So load up poor old Snailey, and sand along your
roans,
And breathe a prayer in favour
Of your old friend, Joseph Jones.
“ The road is looking prosperous, or soon will, I
mean to say;
A Government boring party
Are fixing here to-day.
“ And I am of opinion they’ll not go very deep
Before they bring water to the surface
For cattle and for sheep.
“ Your prospects are looking better,
You have nothing then to fear;
So walk boldly into Gibson’s Camp,
And try Jones’ far-famed beer.”
The Ungodly Orange and the Impious
Banana.
In the S.M. Herald, “Parramatta-street,” i a
permitted to say:—“As Englishmen we glory in
the advantages that have come to us as a Sabba-
tarian nation, and deprecate the action of those
who would take this boon from us.” In the
selling of oranges and bananas on Sunday he
recognizes the thin end of the wedge which would
deprive us of this inestimable “booh.” Seeing a
fruit shop open on “ Sabbath” morning, he
expostulated with a policeman on the probable
Ionsequence to public morality of permitting
jch an outrage on the Pentateuch; but the stolid
fflcer said that at that moment he was “ shepherd-
ig” a couple of public-houses, and had no time to
evote to such small fry as applewmen. “This
ystem of keeping shops open on the Sabbath is
raught with more mischief and immorality than
mny would imagine. . . . It is a system
lartlcularly demoralising to children. ... It
j a burlesque on the Sabbath service when adults
,nd children have Just repeated ‘ God be
into us, and incline our hearts to keep this law,
,nd after which a few steps will find them in the
rult shop.” Our Parramatta-street friend docs
lot state any of the advantages that have come to
Ireat Britain through Sabbatarianism. We
hall supply the omission. It has deprived
nillions of poor Englishmen and Scotchmen of the
hance of breathing fresh air one day in the week,
ind, by denying them all means of rational enjoy-
nent, it throws them back on drunkenness to
relieve the dreary sameness of their lives. It is
ander its protecting shade that bastardy, sottish-
aess, cruelty, and — in a measure — pauperism
aourisn. It was tried for many years in the seven-
teenth century, until, on the “ Restoration,” the
people plunged into the grossest excesses in their
delirium of joy at being relieved from the incubus
of Puritanism. Of those who have lived in Ger-
many (the home of rational Protestantism), J ranee,
Italy, Spain, or the United States, the difference
between the atmosphere of gaiety breathed by the
people during certain hours on Sunday, and the
dull, stagnant air of fanaticism from which their
British brethren have not yet escaped, impresses
the most superficial. It has helped to inoculate
the working classes with deep-seated scepticism,
and has spread among them the belief that preach-
ers who advocate it, are either fools or knaves.
These are a few and a few only of the “ boons ”
directly traceable to Sabbatarianism. To promote
public morality by keeping children from buying
apples on the first day of the week, is about as
sensible as for the Pope to appoint Bismarck as
Archbishop of Paris, and expect the workmen of
St. Antoine to take their hats off when he passed.
A curious sight was seen in Rockhampton
some short time ago. A police-sergeant came into
the town in charge of a white man who had been
found stalking about naked in the bush. This
man, it appeared, had left Roma about two years
before, and had lived in the bush by himself ever
since. He was in splendid health when discovered,
and had given the police a terrible run after him.
When he arrived in Rockhampton, he was imme-
diately “jugged” on a charge of vagrancy. This
is a pretty kind of a free country, if you please,
where a man is not allowed to live as he likes, as
long as he does no injury to others. It is a piece
of good luck for John the Baptist that he is dead,
for, if he had gone about here as he did in Judea,
he would mighty soon have had to exchange his
locusts and wild honey for brown bread
and hominy. The Rockhampton recluse was
taken from his wilds back to civilization for
what ? For his own good ? Surely a man should
know best what is best for himself. If he dislikes
society why should society thrust Itself upon him ?
There it is. Society means publicans, and
and parsons, and tradesmen generally. They are
civilization. Just observe. This man went
into the wilderness, where he saw nobody, and no-
body saw him. He lived upon the fruits of the
earth, and was happy. Civilization, represented by
a policeman and a black tracker, hunts him down,
and he is brouj fht back again to carry bricks up a
'adder, or dig ti - enches, in order that he may earn
money to spend In rum and religion and moleskins.
He does not reoiiilre any of these things, but that
is of no conseq 1 uence. He must buy them because
the publicans : md parsons and storcKeepers wish
to sell them, j Notice the nicety of this logic. He
has to buy do thes, because he cannot go about
decently among his fellows without them. (He
does not want- to go about among his fellows,
remember.) H e has to get drunk, because, being
civilized, man gets drunk. Then he is fined, in
order to supp ort the police. And, after that, ot
course, he rep ents, and replenishes the plate to
furnish fat ca pons for the parsons. The under-
taker and the gravedigger aiso have their share
ot him. We say nothing about the newspaper-
proprietor, o at *jf modesty. On the whole, we
think it is abi jut. tiiuc there was another Jieluge.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
London Gazette, of December 11, an-
nounces that the degrees of the Universities o
N.Z. will he recognised imperially Certain
Sydney tea-merchants advertised the other day lor
a smart office boy, whom, if willing to engage
under indenture, they would teach their profes-
sion. We think these merchants profess too
much. The profession of a tea-merchant—
what next ? The rank of a lard dealer, perhaps ..
Goodchap is now under the aegis of Luscombe, a
fact that no one possibly regrets more than Goon-
chap A suggestion has been made that
rabbit-skins might be utilized by manufactur-
ing them into hats. This is regarded by
Alfred’s brigade as a burning question....
The S. M. Herald reports Loughnan, M.P., as
having declared, in Assembly, that Victoria had
the finest country “for serials" in Australia.
Loughnan evidently doesn’t study his Bulletin
else he would know that the soil for serials is
Miss Johanna Dowling’s horse fell over
her at the Tumut last week, and the doctor—so
says the local paper-had to sew up “a wound in
the neck and the calf of the leg, besides other
scratches.” This comes of a horse falling over
one. We are glad there is nothing wrong, how-
ever, with Miss J.’s head. Would we could con-
gratulate, with equal truth, the editor.....
An Evening News reporter remarked that,
shortly after being locked up in his cell, there was
a change in Silva. Very likely. Was there, we
wonder, any change in the reporter ?.... The Wide
Bay News, speaking of the drought in the Mary-
borough (Q.) district, says: “Every day is making
matters worse. The remnant of the cattle are
dying, bush fires raging, fences being destroyed,
timber cut and ready for hauling being burnt.
During the last twenty years, such an evil time
has never before been experienced. Many a
farmer has lost the savings of years.”
The public school at Kiandra (according to the
Wagga ’Tizer) is simply a gunyah, in which a
number of children with their teacher are packed
like sardines in a box. There is a waterhole in
which opossums disport themselves, and occasion-
ally get drowned. A rough ladder has been con-
structed to get at this water, and the female
teacher has to descend it about half a dozen times
a day with a bucket.
♦ ♦ *
Destructive hurricane swept over England
on December 11... .Exhibitor! at late International
Fisheries Show, London, protesting against
awards. Too fishy A floating breakwater is
the latest thing out. It is formed by triangular
buoys moored a little distance from each other.
One angle of each looks directly seaward; and
when a wave strikes the line, each buoy does its
share in cutting it into strips, and mixing those
strips until, like the Kilkenny cats, they take all
the starch out of each other, when the water passes
thaough the line as mild as a pet lamb Jim
Murrell (aged 66), of Eaglehawk, is a game old boy.
The other day he fell down a 20 ft. shaft, broke his
leg, then clambered up again, and crawled along
r>n the around for nearly a mile to the nearest hut.
At Magnetic Island, Cleveland .Bay, N.Q., four
European fishermen caught in their net, a monster
which was at first supposed to be an aBigator, but
which turned out to be a huge groper weighmg
700 nounds. On being landed it gave birth to a
young one about three feet long. lt |sa very
ugly fish, and well worth seeing..® I *“ a r J p
(nee Orton)* sent up for twelve months by C.C.C.
London, for defraudimr Edinburgh, bv pretending
to have been companion of Lady Daly, (not Daley,
Granny).. .. .The Crown Prince of Germany
has met with a most cordial reception at Barcelona.
The people of the capital of Catalonia, like 11. B. S.,
are evidently “ nuts ” on princes.
Little Eddie Martin, the fashionable Eng-
lish light-weight jockey, is a striking contrast to
the majority of his precocious kind. Although
fifteen years of age, his appearance and ways have
all the fresnness and simplicity ot childhood. He
still attends school, and, schoolboy like, it is said,
thought far more of the pocket-knife promised
by his uncle as a reward for winning the Ciesare-
witch on Don Juan, than ot the thousand pounds
nresented to him by the owner of the horse.
Siittle Martin is the son of a Newmarket trainer, to
whom the lad’s services must be a large source of
income. Eddie’s earnings for the past season have
amounted to no less a sum than live thousand
mounds, and out of that the retainers, as well as
the ordinary riding fees, would belong legitimately
to his father, so long as his apprenticeship is unex-
nired. Martin is evidently the Archer ot the
future. The renowned Fred, by the way, was also
a soft-hearted, simple sort of boy, when he first
came out, and could “do a cry” on very slight
provocation.
The notion that the world has been waiting
for since the Flood has been got hold of at last.
And by Americans, of course. In Maryland,
USA they have just built a church and theatre
combined. There is both fun and economy in this
device. A man can now be saved and damned as
manv times as he likes in the one day. He goes
into the theatre, gets one glimmer at the ankles ot
a coryphee, and is lost to all eternity; then makes
one bound into the church, hears the drone of the
pulpit-wrestler, and is secure for a front seat and
a 14-carat harp for ever and ever. A good deal ot
the devil’s time could be taken up by a smart man
if he laid himself out for it, and had his meals
brought to him in the building. And a thin man
might stand on the boundary line of the two
establishments, and snap his fingers at either
party. It would not be safe tor a fat man to do
this, or one half of him might suddenly wake up
on the point ot an incandescent pitchfork, while
the other half was singing hallelujah on an alu-
minium throne. But this is only our fanciful
view of the question. The practical view of it is
that as neither parsons nor pros, did as much
business as they would like to, they have, in this
instance, buried the hatchet, and combined. Sin,
say the parsons, should be close at hand, so that
salvation should have a speedy sale. And so they
have started a sin manufactory, with what the
Harmy somewhat irreverently calls a glory shop
next door. This is what we call enterprise. We
don’t know what the early Christians would call
it We never saw any early Christians except one,
and he had been on the door-step all night.
During the Christmas season, a big sale of
a special consignment of boots, shoes, &c., will be
on at Hunter's Great City B iot 1'ulace.
This is a curious story. There is a Chinese
Camp at Maryborough, Vic. Well, It has lost one
of its ornaments, A girl came to the Mayor of
Maryborough and told him she was a daughter of
a leading citizen of Blanktown She was supposed
by her family to be dead, but had been living in
houses of ill-fame under an assumed name. The
Mayor “ placed himself in communication with her
father in Blanktown, who telegraphed that he
would joyfully receive her. She was sent home un-
der the escort of a lady whom the Mayor prevailed
upon to act as chaperone, and was received with
open arms by her relatives.” There is evidently
more joy in Ballarat over one sinner that has
repented than over ninety-nine dog-tights. But,
in real earnest, we think that the parents of this
girl are deserving of all praise for their conduct.
Most fathers and mothers, rather than take such a
daughter back, would have let her go to hell
headlong. We mean most “religious fathers
and mothers. The more ostentatiously-roligious
they were, in fact, the more they would have
thrust her back onfpollution and perdition, "ut,
then, one must consider the opinions of society.
What would God think of us if He knew that the
butcher’s wife er the wood and co il merchant s
mother (who drives about in her buggy, and has
money in the bank) had a poor opinion ot our re-
spect ibility ? One must always consider these
things.
If the people of Goulburn have a line
in which they are proud specialists it is the love
of fame and glory, and the consequent thirst for
the performance of deeds of unexampled heroism.
Consequently are the streets dominated by very
small boys called cadets, painfully struggling
along under rusty tirearms, each an embryo
Portergaff ready In the moment of need to lall
upon his country’s bread and golden syrup, look-
ing upon their elders and peaceablers with a glare
of almost grown-up goriness in their inflamed
orbs. The slip-panels of immortality are blocked
un bv aspirants, and every avenue to distinction is
a seething gulf of devotees. They have
even gone so far as to start a Are brigade
—which fact broaches us to, right alongside the
circumstance that the other day somebody rang
the new fire-bell. Then there was wild exultation
in the souls of incipient heroes, and the fancifullv-
decked cotton shirt of necessity was electrically
renlaced by the red coat of glory. We had our
eagle eye on one enthusiast. When the first clang
of the tocsin pealed out, he let the solemg and
heeling interest go to blazes, and tore up the
street, robing himself in the proud uniform
as he went, after th© manner of his kind.
Opposite the fire-engine house a sudden gust
of wind took off his cap. A heavy-weight
exile from Crookwell stooped to recover it tor
him, but the excited fireman stooping at the same
time, their heads came in contact, and, on tn©
principle of Heaven backing the heaviest artillery,
the countryman won it. “ What in did you do
that for?” “Look here, young man, III screw
the nose off your face, if you talk to me.
Then, alarums and excursions, and two citizens
fighting. Then a flying, shrieking cloud of
furies sweeping up a lane with the lire-engine,
suddenly bursting upon two blood-stained
belligerents ringed around by ths wealth and
intelligence of the principal tanneries. 1 he
remorseless Juggernaut does its work well, and
the jackets of firemen, the guernseys of the Bri-
tish public, and the paper dickies ot aldermen are
“ in one red burial blent,” and ploughing through
h°catombs of lives the triumphant monster reaches
the middle ot the street and looks around it and
cooeys for human gore. A cart is pressed into the
service, the dread machine is affixed to it, a dozen
hands strike the hor=e simultaneously, which
seringa forth, but unable to quite get away
with the double load stands stationary for
a moment. For a moment only. The engine
bavins' received a sudden impetus, runs into the
cart, which, in turn, runs over the horse; and
there ensues a magnificence of rum scarcely ap-
proached by the earthquake of Ischia in its palmiest
hours Then the firemen, extracting their little
irlorv-mill from the up-ended chaos, make another
start; and then, by a cursed spite, they find the
tire has gone out. Then they go back sorrowfully
to their cheerless homes, and grieve that there are
no more fires to conquer, and in visions see them-
selves grown to manhood, and proudly wearing
on their swelling breasts the golden trophies of
hose-practice. Then the sad-eyed night comes
down and covers the grisly corpses ottheuncof-
tined dead.


M‘Murtrie, Kellerman,and Co.
I'he first prominent building that catches the eye
of all who journey to Sydney by train is a very
large brick pile situated to the left of Eveleigh
platform. fi?hls is the boot and shoe factory of
Messrs. M'Murtrie, Kellerman, and Co., and fur-
nishes the Subject of the present article. Thi s
Immense building Is, without doubt, the largest
hnd most Complete factory of its kind in the
Southern Hemisphere, and occupies an entire sec-
tion of the Golden Grove Estate —being bounded
by Abercrombie, Wells, Ivy, and Wilson streets,
In area about one acre. Before describing the
present factory, a short history of the firm would
not be uninteresting to our readers, as it shows
the result of enterprise, energy, and strict busi-
ness integrity. The business was first started by
Messrs. J. and G. M'Murtrie about 17 years ago,
and gave employment to about one dozen hands.
A small place was secured at the lower end of
Goulburn-st.; and in thi« place, by strict attention
to detail, and personal supervision of oil work by
the brothers M'Murtrie, the business prospered to
such an extent that It was found necessary to
build the present factory, which gives constant
employment to over 500 persons, and could find
plenty of work for extra female hands, if such
labour could be procured; and when we are In-
formed that a girl of 14, who knows nothing what-
ever of the trade, receives seven shillings a week
upon entering the factory, and can earn as high as
25s per week, it seems strange that girls are so
scarce, especially as the firm are noted for being
kind employers, and have retained female hands
as long as sixteen years. The remuneration of the
men varies according to the work, some earning as
much as £510s per week, whilst a father and son,
who work together, average £9 per week between
them. Those of the men who are steady and indus-
trious can make a first class living; but the average
earnings, per man, are about £3 per week. A
glance at the wages book of the Arm by no means
supports the statements made by a certain class of
agitators that the working men of the colony are
underpaid. On the contrary, a few quotations
will excite surprise, showing, as they do, that it is
quite within the power of industrious working
men to make a wage, which, in many cases, far
exceeds that given to men who pursue what are
snobbishly termed “ genteeler ” callings. There
are two men in the finishing department, father
and son, whose united weekly wage ranges from
about £8 15s. to £9 13s., in the majority of case*
rather over the £9 than under it. They are both
steady, industrious, and skilful men. Others get
£3 18s., £3, £3 14s. each per week, and so on
according to the amount of work they do; all
In this department being paid on the piecework
system. Of course, in the case of dissipated or lazy
men, those who keep Saint Monday in observance*
mod who. by the bye. are the most penis tout
grumblers, the wage is necessarily but small. The
remedy lies in their own hands, if they but exercise
it. The machinists of various descriptions, such
as those at the screwing, heeling, trimming, and
other important machines, are paid by salary—in
one case a salary of £5 8s. being paid, and in others
from £2 10s. to £3 per week. The clickers and
blockers also work on salary, the rates ranging on
the average from a few shillings under £2 to about
£3 per week. The “makers” are paid for piece-
work, and make from about 5581 to 65s., in some
cases more. For example, on one week in
the book we noticed a sum of £4 Is. 2d. earned
by one man, There are about 60 girls, of ages
above 14 years, in the factory. They are started
at a weekly wage of 7s., and receive salaries up to
25s. and 30s. An offer was made to them to go on
piecework, but they refused to do so, though one
of their number, trying it as an expedient for a
week, fouad she could earn a very much larger
wage. The objection to piecework is, of course,
most strenuously made by those who are least
skilful and most dilatory. For the girls the time
of labour is eight hours a day for five days of the
week, and four hours on Saturday, and for the
men and boys nine hours a day for five
days of the week, and five hours on Satur-
day. A lad aged 17 years, working as a
journeyman on piece work, said he could earn
from 35s. to 40s. a week, and another lad, aged
bout 16 yeats, said that he could also earn about
I that amount if he were always well. The boy
looked sickly, and was not of a strong build, though
active enough. These high rates of wages of
course so increase the cost of manuiacture that it
becomes absolutely necessary in order to profit-
ably work the business to have a large plant of
the best and most economical labour-saving ma-
chinery, and in addition to the very fine plant
already possessed by the firm, more machinery
still is on its way hither from England. The
present factory is most substantially constructed
of pressed red bricks and stone facings, and con-
sists of four storeys, each floor completely devoted
to some portion of the trade. The visitor, on
entering, is conducted to the top of the building,
and here the leather undergoes the first process to
form it into boots, namely, that of cutting out the
uppers, or “ clicking,” as it is termed in the trade.
There are about 30 men employed in this branch,
and as they have the cutting of all expensive as
well as cheaper varieties of leather, the “clicker” is
an important person in a boot factory. The front of
the upper must now have its “ neck broken, ” and
this is done by a powerful machine, appropriately
called the “ Guillotine blocker.” After being dried
and sized, the upper is sent to the machine-room,
where, if an elastic-side, the elastic is fitted, and
all the portions—namely, seven or nine, including
the lining—are sewn together by sewing-machines,
of different sizes and varieties, according to the
style of boot. And here again we have an example
consideration of the firm: for, to lessen the
labour of the girls, they have run a small shaft
along the room, connecting every sewing-machine
with it, and drive them by steam. The girls, who
control the speed by means of a treadle, have
simply Vo guide thQwwk* Xbe upper i« now ready
for “ lasting’ ” or being fitted on the sole. The
leather from which the sole is made is passed
through rollers having a pressure of five tons
(what an improvement on the old Jap-stone I)»
and is then cut by powerful machines into
various sizes and shapes, according to the style
required, and the smaller portions remaining
are cut by the same machines into heel “ lifts.”
If the sole is intended for a sewn boot it passes
through a “ channelling” machine, which prepares
the groove for stitching. The lasting is all done
by hand, and afterwards come the most interest-
ing processes, namely, the employment of a
variety of ingenious machines to lessen labour.
It is almost Impossible to describe’the working of
these machines, and it will be sufficient to mention
simply what they can do. The “ Standard Screw ”
machine is a most wonderful piece of mechanism.
This machine, the only one in Australia, screws the
the sole to the upper, feeds itself, cuts its own
screws, and flattens the points inside, and only
requires one man simply to guide the work. The
firm have only just introduced the brass screwed
boots; and as screws are more durable for heavy
boots than.pegs or rivet’, those boots will become
very popular for working men. Then there is the
| Fair” stitching machine and three “ Blake” stitch-
!ng machines, used tor sewing soles to uppers. The
boots and shoes commonly bought as hand-stitched
are principally done by these machines, which
produce a far neater and regular stitch than can
be done by hand. The “sole leveller” is now
brought into requisition; after which the wonder-
ful “heel machine” does its part in the construc-
tion of the boot. This machine, by one movement,
not only firmly nails on the whole heel of the boot,
but cuts the heel to the proper shape as well. The
soles and heels are now “ trimmed,’’ then
“burnished,” and finally “buffed,” all by ma.
chinery. The boot that we have watched through
all its stages is now finished and ready for its mate.
The pairing being completed, the boots are packed
ready for shipment in the capacious cellars of the
factory. Here may be seen huge piles of boot
cases, filled with every variety of imported boots
and shoes—for the firm, as well as being the largest
manufacturers, are second to none as regards
importation. At the rear of the building is a 20
horse power horizontal Tangye engine, worked by
a 35 horse power boiler, the surplus steam being
used for heating a drying-room, where in damp
weather the boots are placed that they may dry
more quickly. In each story of the building is a
horizontal shaft, worked from this engine,
and belting from the shafts in each floor works the
various machines. Messrs. M'Murtrie, Kellerman,
and Co, produce about 5800 pairs of boots
per week, or at the rate of two pairs
for every working minute. This appears almost
Inconceivable, after witnessing the number of
hands and the various processes each boot has to
go through; yet, facts are stubborn thidgs- The
upper leather used is obtained in various parts of
the world—some from India, kid from France,
calf from England, Levant, the Russia, &c.; and
also, leather prepared from kangaroo skins in the
colony. The sole-leather is all colonial. The busi-
ness of the Arm extends throughout the whole of
New South Wales and Queensland, as far North as
Port Darwin; New Zealand, New Caledonia, and
the South Sea Islands. To facilitate business, the
firm have poured a magnificent suite of office,
and sample rooms at Eldon Chambers, 92 Pitt-
street. The fittings are of polished cedar, and
the offices are connected by speaking-tubes, and
communication to the factory by means of the
telephone. The speciality of the firm is a boot or
shoe of superior manufacture, modelled on the
English style, which will outplace the imported
article, and Mr. Kellerman states that he can pro-
duce a boot equal in finish and material to an
English one at a less price than a similar boot can
be manufactured in England. 'Both Mr. M'Murtrie
and Mr. Kellerman are staunch free-traders, and
unhesitatingly assert that “there is nothing like
leather. It is from a perusal of an article on such
business as Messrs. M'Murtrle and Kellerman's
that the general inquirer can learn something of
the industrial prosperity of this country, and can
solve the question whether the manufacturing
wealth of a people requires artificial or protective
support or whether the better results can be ob-
tained from the active employment of skill
and capital. Now, Messrs. M‘Murtrie manu-
facture, In wholesale quantities, the celebrated
sewn boot, the exact '"counterpart of the
famous English boot, having introduced seve-
ral Northampton experts for tbi-> special work;
and i.ot only do they turn out a boot of the most
substantial quality and finished appearance!, but
they actually supply these superior goods at
figures nearly ten per cent, under English manu-
! iers’’prices ruling for the same goods in Lon■
don. French lasting: boots, for ladies, superior
kid boots, &c.—in fact, an all-round improvement
on the general colonial Productions, are now ob-
gervable at these works, showing that the firm
have supplied themselves with the best me-
chanical appliances, and availed themselves
of the opportunities of getting skilled la-
bour from the great manufacturing ceitres of
the old world. Messrs. M'Murtrie and Keilorman's
works turn out boots cheaper and better than can
be manufactured in Victoria; in fact, notwith-
standing the heavy prohibitive tax, several lines
of their goods are on sale in Melbourne. And,
but for the fact that their capabilities are tested to
the utmost to meet their N.S.W., Queensland, New
Zealand, and Fiji demands, the firm would be able
to carry the whole trade in Victoria—in the
face of their great hostile tariff. In Sydney,
Messrs. M‘Murtrie and Kellerman have reached
the grand pinnacle of being able to compete In
price and make with the world-renowned English
boot. And this has been done without the slight-
est official aid in the way of a prohibitive tax. It
has been accomplished by the industry, skill, and
enterprise of the proprietors—and no true solid
foundation can be given to any undertaking ex-
cept in the same way. Visitors to the city who
desire to make comparisons in this regard, should
not fail to visit M'Murtrie and Kellerman’s great
factory. The completeness of their works, the
character and variety of their appliances, the
large number of their operatives, and the en-
ormous out-put, will afford more solid and intc r-
esting information than can be obtained from the
perusal o£ scores of books.
MESSRS. M'MTJRTRIE, KELLERMAN, AND CO.’S BOOT AND SHOE FACTORY.


a
mm*
m
m
474 GS-eorge-street, opposite the Markets.
h aufts? «ss* haT ’ b ”“’ at
A Perfect Substitute for Sterling Gold.
The old-fashioned wares did not permanently retain their colour, and were of flimsy workmanship and tawdry design.
5 TO
j c. w ?
o
r*
m
I
Oriental Gold is not meant tor Bumpkins
, _ , „ „ . U + wi+v, TW-p tvta&WIPICENT PARISIAN DIAMONDS, it is to be seen (but not distinguished) at
It l< extensively worn »t every Court and BsU-roem in . t , ert . tliere ls risk „( Jewellery heoomiii? deiavS. a, ..r tern,
all ttogr.at Theatrw.^LadiiM^yhe^^igtMt^rn^k^ORIENTAL GOLD duplicates (set with the brilliant Diamante Gems) of their family jewels.
ORIENTAL GOLD JEWELLERY last, a life-time and has cempleLlly displaced the old-faeMoaed wares which have been sellln
OBISN invention, of the incomplete science of the period. The ORIENTAL GOLD
Ijw COMPANY has already sold, from its Sydney
worth of its wares, with the happiest results.
for the last twenty years, imperfect
ranch, thousauda of pounds’
a
ffi
\
HI
s
I
aa
*
fev
/
%
fl
or
.
m
A
P X
*
o
BVERT PURCHASER'EXTOLS THE GOODS, and extends their prestige. The article* offer, in fact,
A Union of Beauty, Brilliancy, Elegance, and Endurance, combined with
A Fraction of the expense of Sterling Gold.
CtHtUnea’i List.
Ladles’ List.
irf pm*, m, m, m, t/«, m.
ads, In sets of four, 4/6. 5/6. 6/6.
ill seta ditto, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6,10/-
arms. In all designs, 5/-., 7/6,10/6,12/8, W-
berts. In latest styles, 8/6,10/6,15/-, 20/-
i Bet with brilliant Alaska Diamonds, 6/6,
8,10/, U/6.
ronograph Watch, In sterling silver,
with gold winder *4100
Chronograph Watch, In sterling silver, £ s.
with gold winder & handsome Albert 5 5
English Hunting Patent Lever, capped
and jewelled 3 10
Keyless half-hunting Watch, in Oriental
p old 2
Gents’ hunting, or open face, in sterling
silver; splendid timekeeper, with
Oriental gold Albert 3
0
6 0
0 0
Brooches, 4/-, 5/6, 7/6, KV-, 12/6.
Brooch and Earrings, 6/6, 8/6,12/6,15/-, 20/-
Charms, 2/6, 4/6,10/-
Dress ring*. 4/6, 7/6,10/6,15/-, 20/-
Bracelets. 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, 20/-, 30s.
Bangles, 5s. 6d„ 7s. 6d., 9s. 6d., 12s. 6d.
Alberts, 7s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 15s . 20s., 25s.
Lady’s Oriental Gold Watch (as shown In
illustration) ** 0
Keyless open faced, in Oriental Gold ea*e£S
Same, with splendid Oriental Gold
Albert 8
Lady’s sterling silver Watch, In hunting
5 0
0 0
(or open face, with crystal glass) case,
beautifully engraved, highly finished,
full jewelled works, perfect time-
keeper, with silver or Oriental Gold
Albert 8 10
/


REMEMBER THIS,
1 E YOU ARE SICK.
If you are sick, HOP BITTER* will
surely aid Nature in making you well
again when all else fails.
11 you are comparatively well, but feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from any other of tne numer-
ous diseases of the stomach or bowels,
it is your own fault if yeu remain ill,
for
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints.
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a ear®
to
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will find a “Balm
in Gilead ” in the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a mlasmatlc'district, barricade your
system against the scourge of all coun-
tries —malarial, epidemic, bilious and in-
termittent fevers —by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, er sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, HOP HITTERS
will give you fair skin, rich Mood, the
sweetest breath, health, and comfort.
In short, they cure ALL Diseases of
the Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Liver
Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
JESOO
will be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or lor anything impure or inju-
rious found in the them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
Hop Bitters, costing but a trifle.
Will you let them suffer r
Cleanse, Punfy and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
GRAHAM,
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment,
543, late 631, George-etreet, Sydney,
Gentlemen,—I respectfully beg leave to bring
under your notice the superior style and flt of our
Trousers, which are out on the same unerring
principles as those which have made the name of
Hill, Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion in the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either In sitting, riding
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor braces
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain their
position in every attitude of the body.
They are designed to flt the corpulent as well
the slight figure, and are engaged te give to ail the
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial wiH suffice to establish their «i«i«
cm your patronage.
I am. Sir,
Y ourobedlent Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM.
MALT BITTERS
biiaou8nM^ T juvek
PRICK.
Prepared by A. Q
ieldby
as. m.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The bankruptcy of Mr. W. R. Gilbert, the
English cricketer, has revealed the fact that Mr.
Gilbert, while posing as a gentleman player, was
in the habit of receiving a matter of £5 or £6 for
every match he played. Mr. G.’s liabilities are
i-800, and his assets, though small, can be easily
realised, consisting, as they do, of four cricket
bats. Mr. Gilbert is a cousin of the high-toned
English “champion,” W. Gilbert Grace.
General M‘I\*er, who meditates a New
Guinea annex on his own account, fought as a lad
with Garibaldi in 1858. Italia redenta, he cast in
his lot with the Confederates. When their cause
was ‘‘bust up,” he took service under the tri-
colour, in the Gallic-'l eutonio trouble. Discharged
by the surrender of Paris, he took the pay of the
SuMime Porte during its struggle with the
veneered i artar of Muscovy, In brief, MTver is
a 19th century edition of the Dugald Dalgetty of
the “ Legend of Montrose.”
His Honor Judge Windeyer spent the
early years of his life on the Lower Hunter.
While the Judge was quite a child, the lather of
the man Bradfleid— who received such a heavy
sentence at his hands last Circuit Court—was the
means oi saving his life. Forty years ago isays
the Examiner), as boys, the Judge and the man he
was sentencing went to the same school, and pos-
sibly had never crossed one another’s paths again
until they met under such peculiar circumstances,
wnich, it is needless to say, only secured recogni-
tion on one side.
‘•I cannot leave Australia,” sobbed a cer-
tain lady: “I cannot leave my dear native land.”
And, as Alfred so touchingly puts it, “ it was a
fearful struggle between love for the man of her
choice and patriotism.” Ultimately, as Alfred goes
on to say, “ Mrs. was carried on board (the
Pacific mail steamer) in a hoi/-faintiug condition,
completely exhausted with emotion and the ago-
nising effects of a divided skirt—we beg Alfred’s
pardon—of a divided duty.” All this reminds us
of the Byronlc line In which saying No and con-
senting are so aesthetically mingled.
Says a country paper:—“Albert Edward
had passed through the Valley of the Shadow of
Death, and he rose from his sick bed with wise and
good resolves for the future. And he has kept
them. Ho has been more kingly ever since, with
a fitting gravity and dignity that have well be-
come him. Emulating the example taught by his
father, Albert the Good, he has fostered the
growth of industries, been the generou patron of
all representative exhibitions, and his Intelligent
interest in the well-being of these colonies, has
done a great deal more for us in advertising our
existence that we wot of.” He is now 16 stone
weight, so that his gravity is still on the increase.
The Customs officers in America are very
partial in their way. They will burst in the band-
box of a servant girl, in search of contraband
cows, probably, and let the colossal trunks of a
lord go by without seeing them. Of course a lord
could never be suspected of smuggling. Still—
but no. It is the Amerlcau way of complimenting
distinguished visitors. They did not touch our
luggage when we went over there. We carried
our luggage in our hat. This tribute to our cele-
brity touched us. The luggage of Lord Coleridge
passed in the same fashion when he went there.
We wish he would come out here, and our Cus-
toms authorities would be similarly courteous.
He might smuggle us something into the colony:
j ustice, for instance.
Very late one night. Judge Paul, of Bris-
bane, while homeward bound from his Club, met
an intoxicated person who was wending his way in
semi-circles to his marital four-poster. And the
inebriated one was making enough row to wake
the dead or the Seven Sleepers. The Judge re-
monstrated—told him to go home quietly. “ Who
are you ?” enquired the drunken gentleman of his
would-be benefactor. “ My name is Paul,” replied
the Judge. “Paul—Pauil” “Yes, Paul is my
name.” “Well, then, old feller,” continued the
man who held the liquor, “ have y’ever had any—
hie—any answer to tnat—long letter you wrote to
the Ephesians, longtimesh—hie—ago ? ” We are
quite aware th *t this story is as old as the hills,
au i that it has been told of at least ten thousand
different people, including many bishops. But,
nevertheless, we now print it—once and for all.
The amount of good nature with which
Anthony Trollope started in life can be gleaned
from his autobiography. Any other boy brought
up as he was would hav e been a burglar at 13 and
a parricide at 16. His father helped him in his
studies by pulling his hair and occasionally flooring
him with the family Bible. At Harrow he was the
dirty boy of the school, and the best-flogged
youngster in England. On his obtaining a London
post-office billet of £90 a year, the Jews s woo pea
down upon him, one money-lender securing £3,0
in payment for an original advance of £16. It was
possibly under this harpy that Melbourne
“ Waxrnan” learnt bis trade. For ten years be
diligently scribbed, until the “ Warden” and “ Bar-
chester Towers” set him on the high road to
prosperity. During the 32 years from ’47 to ’79 he
earned £70,000 by his pen. Yet it is doubtful
whether any of his stories will be read 10 years
hence.
The Herald, in a leader in last Thursuay’s
issue, calls Mr. Howard Vincent “head of one of
the London divisions of police.” Mr. H. V. is. as
all the world knows (except the Herald, which i*
less of the world than oi heaven), “ Director of
Criminal Investigations,” and has almost supreme
power over the whole of the British poace. His
brother, by the way, who has just been appointed,
vice Sir A. Colvin, Financial AiHiser to the
Khedive, is only 26. He is an interesting youth,
and was (or is) in the Coldstream Guards. At 16
he was the crack man of the Eton eight, and a
member of “Pop,” a society of 40 old Etonians, the
membership of which, for some reason or other, is
greatly prized. The question, of course, arises as
to whether the Viceroy of Egypt is in want of a
financial adviser, if El Mahdx gets along as well
as he has been doing lately, what Tewlik will soon
stand much in need of will be a safe and secluded
cellar -if not a tombstone.
Douglas W B. Sladen has been at it again.
This time it’s an “ Australian Epode ” (contributed
to an up-country journal). As usual, Douglas
W.B.’s rhymes are of the questionablest - ex. gr.
“cot "with “remote,” “with’’with “beneath,”
“up” with “crop,” “gone” with “flown,”
"hung” with “along,” “itself” with “twelve,”
“ precipice” with “eyes,” &e. &c. And, while the
rhymes of his lines .ire so almighty queer, the
sense of ’em is well, we haven t a suitable ad-
jective handy. There is scarcely a line of this
racy epode that is not admirably calculated to
provoke the hearty grin so needtul to the right
enjoyment of the happy Christmas-time: since
nothing maaesa fellow happier thauto know that
he isn’t such a blanked poet as some other fellow
—and that is just the sort of happiness which the
most stupid can derive from a pprusal of the
epode under review. This epode is intended to be
in praise of rural life. How happy, cries Douglas
W.B., ‘1 could lead a peaceful life away from
city stir and strife, on the Blue Mountains, in a
little cot, with just sufficient private income clear
to let me swill my English neer without a thought
of what it costs. In Spring, I d keep the untaxed
fires on, till I had my full meed of sun: I’d take
my book into the bush (and, let us h*pe, “plant”
it there), and watch the wrens and the insects
coming back to haunt the shade wherein their
ancestors last Summer played. In Summer, I
would leave my bed betimes to have the morn-
ings In their primes, for gathering the ripened
Biitish fruits from trees and plants whose bloom-
ing roots I guarded and (from my own earth
closet) enriched so carefully—the cherrie and the
sirawoerree. the currant and the gooseberree.”
And so on: but hero we must conclude with the
liquiu retrain about tbe goosebt-nee, assured
that, so long as such epodic rot can find publishers,
th • gooseberree will be current.
Jules claretie savs that Dumas phre wrote
all his books (including "Les Trots Mousque-
taires ) while in intense agony. When found in
P-u.i by his son, one night, the following took
place between them * T What is the mutter? ’
asked the author of “La Dame aux Camelias.’
“ Ycu can see,” returned his father, “I am taking:
awalkl” “ Are you unwell, then? ’ inquired the
son. “ It is nothing new,” he replied with a groan:
“1 suffer these internal pains nearly every night.’ 1
“But why do you not get adv.ce about them ?”
“ They are Incurable.” “And will nothing relieve
you?" “Nothing. When I am seized like this, I
get up and pace the room, as you see. When it is
unusually bad, I read.” " And when it is insup-
portable ?” asked his son. “ Why then,” returned
his father, with a characteristic gesture, “ I write.”
“Splendid legend, sp—,” well, no; not this time.
Talking of Dumas p ere, we are reminded that
Percy Fitzgerald, in his life of the great man,
states that Dumas never wrote a line of
“Monte Christo,” but that the entire work
was accomplished by his assistant, Auguste
Macquet. Macquet, also, he alleges, wrote
the greater part of “Vingt Ans Apres,” “La
Tulipe Noire, and others. There is one thing very
certain : Dumas could not have written ail that
is attributed to him. His plays alone are the work
of an ordinary life-time. Percy Fitzgerald, by the
way, is little heard of, apparently, now. Yet he
has done some good work; and Afarcus Clarke iwe
omit the " poor ” on purpose, since it means no-
thing) in his “ Holiday Peak,” speaks enthusiasti-
cally of “ Never Forgotten.” Some of his other
books — notably “The Second Mrs. Tlllotson,”
which also appeared in “All the Year Round”
were feeble stuff. The best boos Percy Fitzgerald
has ever written is “ The Principles of Comedy.”
We can commend this work to the attention of the
profession, and especially to that of budding dra-
matists. And, to finish up, it has just come across
us that if Dumas p ere wrote in pain, what fearful
agony Alfred’s bards must writein!
It appears true, after all, that Anthony
Trollope made £70,000 by his books, since he has
left that sum behind him, and his pen was his
torfane, “sir, she said.” His average was about
iloaO for each book. We remember a long long
time ago—we don’t care, somehow, about fixing
dates since we have taken to parting our locks
two inches from the left ear, which gives quite a
harp-ilke effect to the hair on the top of our head I
—calling to see him, at the time he was editing
virtue's magazine (since “gone up”) St. Paul’s.
We don’t mind admitting that we had a trifle in
verse which we thought, perhaps, would “suit
his columns.” He was in a great big room, look-
ing out on the City Road, and he bade us in a roar
to beseated, We waited there, in a humble corner,
while be bellowed at the partners, at artists, and at
foremen. Before him were his proofs of an instal-
ment of “ Ralph the Heir”—rather poor stuff, by
the way, and nearly all about a tailor. After a bit
he took our manuscript and began to read it. It
was a touching story in a mean metre of a poor
ere .ture who was stolen by gipsies, and we had
shed many tears in the composition of it. We
had read it, too, before our assembled family, and
they had all shed tears. We watched the great
man anxiously. As he read on, he began to smile a
broad sinister smile. At length be put the MS. do wn
on his desk, and said, “Do you attacn any value
to this —the poem?” “No, sir,” we faltered,
humbly. “ You are quite right,” he cried, rising,
and shaking us by the hand; "quite right. You
are a very sensible fellow.” A moment late" on
our fevered brow was being fanned by the cool
breezes of Islington, and subsequently we detected
ourselves in the Angel, drowning dull care in a
glass of “ stout and bitter.” [As this interesting
little reminiscence is sure to be largely copied by
the Melbourne and New Zealand liars, we trust
that such of our contemporaries as honour us by
doing so will not fail to credit us with the item.—
Bd. B.] • -■*
Some interesting particulars of the early
struggles of Mr. Thomas Garrett, M.L.A., are
given by the Bombala Times. When the Kiandra
diggings were in full swing, Tom arrived there
with a small printing plant, and started a little
newspaper called the Alpine Pioneer. “ A little
while before this, he and his father, the proprie-
tors of the Illawarra Mercury, unfortunately
for themselves, published an article by Dr. Lang,
named the “ Illawarra Incubus,” and were nearly
ruined by being prosecuted for libel contained in
that article. We thought, therefore, that if Mr.
T. Garrett would consent to be a member tor
Monaro, we would have a good man in him. The
writer and auother started for Kiandra as a depu-
tation to him We found him hard at work setting
the type lor the Pioneer, something d la Gari-
baldi, dressed in a red guernsey, lorn was very
proud of the honour which we Intended him, but
remarked that he was very poor, and that it would
complete his ruin if he was not successful, and
he thought, as a complete stranger to the people
of the district, he would stand but a poor
chance of being returned. We assured him that
there was every probability of his success, and he
answered that a political life was the one he aiways
craved for, and with misgivings he consented to
can vass the district, and was returned by a majority
oi 30 over the two local candidates that opposed
him; there being one from Cooma undone from
Bombala. Alter his election, finding that the
Alpine Pioneer would not pay at Kiandra, he
proposed to the people the starting of a paper at
Cooma, and that they should assist him in the
enterprise. In a week £100 was subscribed for
that purpose. But, it being winter time, great
difficulty had to be overcome in taking the type
from Kiandra, and thirty Chinamen were em-
ployed, who carried the whole as far as Adam-
inby, whence a dray carried it to Cooma, and the
Monaro Mercury was then started. We were
very proud then of having secured a member and
a newspaper at the same time. The Mercury, if
I mistake not, was the first newspaper established
south of Braidwood. This was the beginning of
the political career of Tom Garrett.”
Prince Albert Victor has begun his college
life. He was taken down to Cambridge, a few
weeks ago, by his pa; and though at Trinity he is
only a “ pensioner in name, in reality he will be
a fellow-commoner, and wear a silk gown, with
the further distinguishing badge of a gold tassel
to his “ mortar-board ” He is also to feed with
the dons. It has been stated that H.R.H. has
evinced, since his experience he fascinating
manner of a certain Sydney ( vpi I a decided ob-
jection to mixing with the con mon herd. He put
on a few frills here, too, did Alter.. V. When he
danced with a girl at a ball, sometimes he would
speak to her, but generally not. On the night of
"Mr. Harris’ Hop” (gravely recorded in these
columns) the future king danced with a lot of old
dowagers and several young girls; and it was
noticed, when we all pushed up lor an onslaught
on to the aspic jelly and dry Monopole, that the
Prince looked very weary. “What’s the matter,
Prince?” enquired the Rev. Mr. Dalton. “I’ve
been dragging round those venerable hens,” he
replied, with a sigh. “Fancy I Everyone of them
said the same thing: ‘So you are going to the
Blue Mountains to-morrow, your Royal High-
ness ; oh, how you will admire them I The
young ones didn’t say anything—except one, who
asked me ‘ how was my Royal ma.’ ” And this re-
minds us of a legend which even age—and a con-
stant attributing of it to Sheridan—has not shorn
of Its gorgeousness. You shall have the anecdote
as the last victim flatteringly related it:—“ Many
years ago, when the Duke of Gloucester was iu
command in Lancashire, the Mayor and C rpora-
tion of Liverpool invited him to a State dinner, in
the course of which the Mayor, seeing that the
Duke only took one plate of the turtle soup, cried
out ‘Do, pray, your Royal Highness, fill your
royal stomach ; we’ve plenty more in the kit-
chen!” The point is, now, what would have been
the correct thing fur the Duke to reply? He
might have rejoined—“1 have no reason to doubt
that your Worship is an excellent authority upon
every thing connected with the kitchen.” Would
this, do you think, have crushed the Mayor ? But
this opens up a vast sub—besides, we are busy
with our Christmas number—to say nothing of our
shoes.
We learn from the Herald that M. Fer-
dinand de Lesseps complains that an infernal
machine arrived at his house, but that he had it
promptly put out and thus suffered only a little
temporary inconvenience. It is a duty we owe to
tne public to instruct it. It is generally known that
the Baron is rather considerably married (he being
74) to a young lady of tender years. With a clock-
work regul u’ity Mudame presents her hub. with
tokens of her regard—and, we should add, respect.
On these occasions, of course, it is only natura
that—but, of course, you take us. The inferna
machine alluded to was the Baron’s mother-in
law. Why, we remember that every time we have
enjoyed similar good fortune we have always been
in trouble. We have, at these interesting times,
spared neither gold nor silver. Everthmg neat
and genteel. New pin-cusbion, with “ Welcome”
worked upon it in white worsted, bottle of port
wine ou the chest of drawers. Pottle of sherry ou
the parlour table, six-pennyworth of biscuits in a
soup-plate, and all complete. Even, if not too far
towards the end of the month, a kid glove round
the knocker, and a new chintz cover over the hair-
trunk. We don’t wont any assistance, bless you, in
these gorgeous preparations. ' et before the
nurse had got the run of the mansion sufficiently
to be able to find the shaving- tin in which to boil
the cocoa, a cab laden with luggage of a grotesque
character would drive up, and a lady with strongly
maiked features, and a sinister umbrella, would
alight,aud, with an hysterical “ How’s my darling
Guild?” would rush indoors with a feverishforget-
lulmss of the fare. After this, we slept on the
hearth-rug, and struggled with tinned salmon ou
the stairs. Everything appeared to be “ wanted
upstairs,” except salmon and hard biscuits. The
nutse, who at first had been almost servilely civil,
coon commenced to side with the enemy, and the
sherry disappeared with remarkable celerity. Ac
both ladies constantly stated the invalid must be
“ kept up” at all hazards, our orders caused quite
a run ou the hotel at the corner, and conjured up
a thoughtful expression on the face of the land-
lord. Having in view these personal experiences,
w;e are inclined to pity M. de Lesseps. And we are
disposed to sympathise with him the mo* e because
we are disposed to think that his troubles in the
infernal machine line are by no means over.
♦ • *
Wilfrid Powell’s offer to lead a scientific
exploration expedition into New Guinea, has been
accepted by the British Koyal Geographical
Society. Party to start next February Mel-
bourne was plunged into sorrow by the sad intel-
ligence that Mr. Service was suffering from rheu-
matism in the back, brought on by draughts from
the open window of the Council Chamber; but
the further information, that “ the other delegates
were in good heakh," helped to dispel the general
gloom... — Mr. Charles Bright, accompanied by
Mrs. Bright, leaves for N.Z. by the Hauroto, on a
two mouths’ lecturing tour In Melbourne they
have taken to assaulting medical men who de-
mand their fees. One sawbones was requested to
leave the premises by being hit on the head and
knocked through a door. A professional bruiser
now attends him on his rounds H.M.S. Raleigh
is to replace the Nelson on this station. The
Raleigh is the craft in which Harry Keppel, G.C.B.,
grazed all the ree s of the archipelagoes of the
Western Pacific.... At Armidale, Rosebery visited
Moses .md Co.’s boot factory. Moses and Primrose
once again in conjunction. This time no green
spectacles : everything coulewr derose (according
to the local reporter).
When the Queen travels from London to
Balmoral her journey costs the London and North-
Western Railway Company no less than £4000.
Along the whole length of their line men are
placed within sight of each other, to signal should
anything be wrong. A pilot engine precedes her,
and no train going in an opposite direction Is
allowed to pass the ttoyal train in motion. It must
be drawn up at a station till Her Majesty has gone
by — Die i recently at Glengarry, Canada, old Mrs.
Macrae, aged 97, probably the first white woman
born in Upper Canada. She belonged to a family
remarkable for stature, strength, extraordinary
breadth of chest and massiveness of jaw. Her
son, known as “Big Allan,” is one of the few
remaining from a generation of Glengarians, the
form and height of whom were phenomenal
During the Queen’s sojourn in the vicinity of
Loch Vennachar, some years ago, the Princess
Louise had occasion to drive into Callander to
match some velvet. She procured it at the shop
of n. draper in the place, but, on rising to leave,
was annoyed to find she had not her purse with
lu r, and, begging the draper’s pardon, told him
she would send him the money next day. “ Dinna
fash yersel’, mem,” said the imperturbable trades-
man. “ Ter uiither hasanaccoout here.” Long-
fellow has two unmarried daughters, who are
going to study at Newnham College one year, and
then travel on the Continent one year John V.
Parnell, who lately died, was a Plymouth Brother.
When travelling in the East with a friend,
before succeeding to the peerage, he con-
verted an Armenian lady to that faith ; after dis-
cussion with his friend as to which of the two
should marry her, “ to save her soul,” the lot fell
on Parnell. His lordship carried out the agree-
ment. ami toot his Armenian wife to England.
His first wife had been an Irish girl, and third one,
wh<-n the Armenian went to heaven, was an
Aiuiio-Indian ; so the Irish peer gave the fair sex
a very lair trial—The ex-Viceroy of Egypt has
announced his intention of settling down in Lon-
don. As he has £100,000 a year, and a large supply
of young and pretty wives, he will be quite wel-
come in the Prince's set . .Mdme. Modjeska has a
son, Ralph, 19 years old — The Princess of Wales
endeavoured to conce.il her growing deafness as
long as possible, but it is now too obvious. When
at.a theat re, wiiich is little more than dumb show
to her, she incessantly watches other people, so
as to join in the laugh at the right moment, care-
,ufiy avoiding a solo after they have finished.
Another token is her guarded manner in company.
Etiquette piecludes anyone pushing close to
royalty, or using a loud voice, so that the Princess
is always in anxiety lest some one should speak,
and appear to be slighted by her not answering.
Peter Sprague was a i.ero of New York, just dead.
He was founder of the Blind Aid Association there,
rorty yeais ago, when Peter was a prime young
man, he ran into a flaming building, carried out
two children, and then their unconscious mother.
Entering a > bird time, he carried a senseless
woman from the garret, to find the stairs burned
away, and by the time they got a ladder to the
window, Peter’s eyebrows and hair were singed
ott; but he never let go the woman till he stag-
gered with her off the foot of theiadder-bliudfor
life. Alter being in hospital sometime, he started
an institution for those like himself, and managed
nn average life-time, earning the
title of fattier to the Blind of New York ....
It is seldom a fatal duel is heard of now-u-da>
but in Austria lately Dr. Rose ■ berg shot dead the
Count llatthyany because he disputed rightful pos-
session of a iady who had become Mrs. Rosenberg
instead of Countess BatthyaSy. Some men have
no gratitude —President Arthur lives high; he
adheies to London hours, dines at 8, and keeps an
excellent table and wines, which none of his pre-
decessors for long back did. On a salary of £10,000
a year, he entertains much more frequently than,
and quite as well as, an illustrious person with
forty times his income, who usually occupies her
L ndon palace a few days in the year....
I he Prince and Princess of Wales sent a message
behind the scenes, inviting Miss Mary Anderson to
visit the royal box. Miss Anderson would be
happy, she replied, to visit them at the end of the
piece. The Princess rejoined that she never
waited the end of a play to see anyone. But Mary
wouldn’t break her rule of not seeing anyone dur-
the play, and the royalties aid wait, and Miss
Anderson averred the Princess was the most de-
Iightful lady she had ever met Captain Mayae
Reid was as full of dash and adventure himself as
bis thrilling books are. He was handsome as he
made his own heroes; and that he was clever, and
of masterful originality is proved by his having
gamed a foremost place, when men like Fenimore
cooper held the field of Indian romance
E Y.” (Edmund Yates), in a brief article in the
World, on Trollope’s autobiography, the
following hard hit at Anthony “ lu his official
relations he went out of his way to make himself
offensive, and was in general heartily disliked. To
be disliked, as Trollope records was his fate, hy-
men so totally opposite as the two Post-office Secre-
taries under whom he served. Colonel Maberly and
Sir Rowland Hili, shows that ha must have had a
huge capacity for making himself objectionable:
and he had.” — Dr. John Brown, M.D., of Edin-
burgh, has been created a baronet. And yet our old
friend Shakespeare fell into the ridiculous error
of asking “What’s in a name ...Genius is
hereditary. Madame Modjeska’s soa is a moat
accomplished—biliiawi play w.


OTla-e ' SSellaTDl© IBvLg'g'iesI
NO SECOND CHEAP HOUSE.
22 and 24 CLARENCE STREET, ONLY,
POK, GOOD GOODS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS & WAGGONETTES,
BACKBOARD WAGGONS, AND EVERY STYLE OF BUGGY.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Clarence-street.
New South Wales Weather Almanac for 1884.
70 PAGES OF USEFUL AND RELIABLE INFORMATION.
Antidote for Snake Bites,Ferries and
Articles of the Calendar
Astronomical Data
Australian Ports — Dis-
tances of
Australasian Statistics
Bets & their Management
Barometer
Burial of the Dead
Clerks of Petty Sessions
Companies, Societies, and
other Association Of-
fices in Sydney; Banks,
Building and Invest-
ment Societies: Mining,
Insurance, Steam,other
Companies, &e.; Charit-
able Institutions, Cluhs
Consuls
Coroners
District Court Registrars
District Courts and Ses
sions „
Distances of Mail Routes,
CONTENTS;—
Harbour I Monthly Calendar San Francisco Mail Ser-
Steamers ; Monthly Gardening Ope- vice
Foreign Coins and Eng- rations mgs wanKs
lish quivalents Money Orders ifS??}!, 8 ’
Fruit Trees i Municipal Information 1 Signals and Shipping
Gardening Information j National Debt of England Hags
—Horticultural Hints Native Game Protection
(Formation and Ma-
nagement of the Lawn,
Ornamental Trees and
Shrubs, Plant Propaga-
tion)
Garden Calendar of Ope-
rations
Government
Government Depart-
ments
Governors of New South
Wales
Native Shrubs to Trans-
plant
Parliamentary
Parliaments of New
South Wales
Plant Propogation —Cut-
tings, Grafting. Bud-
ding, Layering. &c.
Police—Clerks of Sessions
Police Magistrates
Postal Information
Preside' ts of the Legis-
Grape~Vine, Prohibition! lafivo Council
of importation I Probable Weather
Latitudes and Longitudes I Public Holidays
Laying Down Land to j Quarantine Regulations
Grass ! Queen and Royal Family
&«.
Eclipses
English Mails
Eras
Facta not
Known
Generally
Mails per the Orient Line Railway Progress
Mail & Travellers’ Guide Registration of Births
Ministries of New South and Deaths
Wales | Rule for Finding Area of
Speakers of Legislative
Assembly
Stamp Duties
Storage of Water and
Contents of Tanks
Sydney University
Tariffs of the Australian
Colonies — New South
Wales, Queensland,
Victoria, South Aus-
tralia, Western Austra-
lia, Tasmania, New Zea-
land
Telegraphic Information
Tiam Information
Travellers’ Intercolonial
Guide
Useful Recipes
Weather Indications
Weather, to Foretell
Weights and Measures
Weight of Hay, To Find
Mining” in New South "Square Tanks with; Will, To Make
Wales I sloping sides I
FOR SALE BY ALL BOOKSELLERS, PRICE, POST, Sd.
GIBBS, SHALLAED AND CO.,
Publishers and Proprietors. Lithographic and Letterpress Account-Book
Manufacturers, Artists. Engravers, Electrotypers, Rubber Stamp Makers, &c„
70 Pitt-street, Sydney.
CHRISTMAS & NEW YEAR’S CARDS.
THE LARGEST, BEST, and CHEAPEST ASSORTMENT at
Turner and Henderson's,
16 and 18 Hunter Streets
gp- NO CHARGE FOrTPOSTAGE TO THE COUNTRY.
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS.
HANDSOMELY BOUND and ILLUSTRATED BOOKS in every department of
LITERATURE, Family Bibles, Prayer Books, Church vTse*’
Writimr and Tourists’ Cases, Card Cases, Purses and Pocket Books, {statuary, v ase s ,
Ornaments, Bronze Ware, Gold and Silver Pencil Cases, &c. Show Rooms on First Floo r .
16 and 18 HUNTER STREET.
-A1VLES
MARTIN *Go
389 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Our Lawn Mowers
are all GCAEANTEED,
and bo confident axe we of always being able
to give satisfaction that we will send
our I.awti Mowers on approval.
W© mmM® t&© 1
I*awn Blawer
jtfiUQSU
--
REMEMBER.
and Have in Stock all sizes, so the require-
ments of everyone can be met.
uur Prices from 30 Shillings,
and any Purchaser who is dissatisfied after
trial, is at liberty to return the machine at
our expense.
We Invite Inspection, and eheerfully
furnish every information.
GUARANTEE EVERT LAW MOWER WE
Amt
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(limited)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS.
Offices: 43 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE ; MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, apd
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Dris-
hane), every Saturday. •
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane to Bundaberg, Gladstone, ana
Port Maokay, every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
Buninyong .. 3000 Geelong
500
900
1600
1600
600
1306
700
Barrabool .. .. 1000 Keilawarra ..
Burwah .. .. 1000 Konoowarra
Cheviot .. .. 1500 Leura..
Derwent .. .. 500 Moreton m ..
Edina .. .. 400 Rodondo
Gabo 3000 YouYangs ..
♦Balmain .. .. 600
♦ To arrive.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
42 King Street. Sydney.
INTERCOLONIAL JUVENILE INDUSTRIAL
EXHIBITION, PARRAMATTA, 1883.
THE OPENING CEREMONY
will be performed by
HIS EXCELLENCY LORD AUGUSTUS LOFTUS
at 3.30 p.m., on
WEDNESDAY, 19th DECEMBER.
The OPENING CANTATA will be sung by a
Chorus of 600 Public School Children, assisted by
Miss Marie St. Clair, Mr. J. Moon, Mr. F. Brewer,
and Mr. A. H. Gee.
Words of the Cantata by J. Barlow, Esq.
Music by Herr Hugo Alpin.
Conductor—Herr Hugo i^pln.
Special trains to Park Platform on Exhibition
Ground. Excursion rates from all stations. Spe-
cial concession to children.
Arrangements have been made with Mr. C. E.
Jcannerett to run additional steamers, as well as
trams, t© the Park gate, live minutes walk to
Exhibition.
The building will, by the kind permission of Mr.
E. S. Cracknell, be lighted in the evening with
electric light.
Admission to the opening ceremony, 2s. 6d.; In
the evening, Is.
CHAS. E. BOWLING,
Hon. Sec.
S
HEFFIELD HANDICAP,
ORANGE.
ANNIVERSARY DAY.
NOMINATION, One Guinea; to be in by the 29th
December, 1883.
DECLARATION OF HANDICAP; by the 7th
January. 1884.
ACCEPTANCE. One Guinea; closes on tho 21st
January, 1884.
100 GUINEAS 160
R. S. NELSON.
R. H. PALMER.
T. F. HOLLAND.
Hon.
Secs.
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL, CUDAL.
To Travelling Companies, Lecturers, &e.
TO LET, the above large and well-appointed
Hall. Sitting accommodation for over 200
people; splendid piano, scenery, &o. Terms
reasonable. Apply to
H, HURLEY TORR,
Hon, Secretary,
School of Arts, Cudal.
DISSOLUTION OF PARTNERSHIP.
In consequence of the death of Mr. H.T. Peterson.
aENUINB CLEARANCE SALE of an immense
and magnificent stock of Gold and Silvtr
Jewellery, Diamond Goods, Watches, Clocks ;
Sterling Silver, Electroplate, and Optical Goods.
Total value, £30,000.
HORN AND PETERSEN,
Sydney Arcade, King-street,
regret to announce that, in consequence ef the
death of their Partner, Mr. Petersen, they are
compelled to dispose of the whole of their VALU-
ABLE STOCK, to pay out the interests due to tho
Legatees under the will ot the deceased partner,
and, to etfect a speedy clearance, will SELL AT A
GREAT SACRIFICE, and positively no reasonable
offer for any of the Goods will be refused.
The Stock comprises
GOLD and SILVER JEWELLERY of the most
recherche description, and WATCHES from the
best and most well-known makers; and, being a
BONA FIDE SALE,
offers an unusual opportunity for procuring
Christmas and New Year’s Gifts.
HORN AND PETERSEN,
Sydney Arcade, King-street.
JEWELLERY, JEWELLERY. JEWELLERY.
CASH SALE.
EXTENSIVE ALTERATION TO PREMISES.
LAMB & FAIRFAX, 23 Hunter-street,
beg to inf rm their customers and the public that
they are now offering their carefully-selected
Stock at a Reduction of 35 per cent.
Five Shillings in the Pound taken off plain marked
previous prices.-
N.B.—As Christmas is close at hand, tho opportu-
nity should not he missed of purchasing intended
gifts.
PAINTS.
OILS.
WALL
PAPERS
Office: 330 (Seerge-straet.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
[ UT N.B. Patterns and Priotfl Sent.
o
PER
USE
Lessee and Manager • W. J. Wilson
LAST NIGHT BUT TWO OF
MR. WYBBRT REEVE
and his Comedy Company.
This and to-morrow evening-,
THE CRUSHED TRAGEDIAN
THE CRUSHED TRAGEDIAN.
Brilliant Audiences. Enthusiastic Reception.
Magnificent Scenery and Stage Appointments.
Stage Manager .. .. Mr. Herbert Flemming
Acting Manager .. .. Mr. J. W. Dodge.
Overture at 8 ; carriages, 10.30. _. .
Box office at Huenerbeln’s, 411 Oeo.-st. Ticket*
may be obtained at Roberts’s, next Theatre.
Prices as usual.
SATURDAY. DECEMBER 23.
MB. GEORGE DARRELL,
in his marvellously successful Anglo-Austrauan
play,
THE SUNNY
SOUTH.
fllHEATRE ROYAL—Under the Management©!
I Messrs. Williamson, Garneb, & Musgrov*.
FAREWELL
of Williamson, Garner, and Musgroye 8
ROFAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
THIS THURSDAY EVENING,
PIRATES OF PENZANCE
at a quarter to 8,
Prices as usual. Box office open from 11 till 4-.
General Business Manager, Mr. H. H. Harwood.
AIETY THEATRE.
Lessee Mr, Jno, Bennett
Sub-Lessee Miss Annis Montagus
Manager Mr. Chas. Turner.
MONTAGUE-TURNER
ENGLISH OPERA COMPANY.
For a Limited Season Only, commencing
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 22nd.
SATURDAY, and ’WEDNESDAY,
32nd, 24th. and 20th,
THE BOHEMIAN GIRL.
THURSDAY, FRIDAY, and SATURDAY,
27th, 28th, and 29th,
MARITANA.
A Great Cast:
MISS ANNIS MONTAGUE, Prlma Donna,
MR. CHARLES TURNER,
and
SIGNOR G, VERDI;
Miss B. S. Sherwin, Mr. J. T. Gordon.
Overture at 7-50 p.m.
Carriages ordered for 10.30 p.m.
Admission.—Private Boxes, £3 3s. ; 0rc^ e
Stalls, 5s.; Stalls, 3s.; Front Gallery, 2i. ; Upper
Gallery, Is. Reserved seats at Paling s, George-
street.
Grand Production (of which due notice will be
given) of Victor Masses Romantie Opera of
* PAUL AND VIRGINIA 11
H. TREVORAH, Business Agent.
GUNDAGAI JOCKEY CLUB
(Registered under the A.J.C. Rules).
ANNUAL RACES.
Thursday and Friday, 28th and 29th
February, 1884.
Handicapper: Mr. R. J. Mitchell, Wagga.
FIRST DAY.
MAIDEN PLATE of 30 sovs., with a sweep of
1 sov. each for starters added; second horse
to receive 5 sovs. out of the prize. For all
horses that have never won an advertised prize
exceeding £10 up to date of entry. Winners
of two-year-old races admitted. Penalties for
winning after entrance: once, 5tt>.; twice ®r
more, 7tt>. Nominations, enclosing 1 s»v.. will
be received by the Secretary from date.
Balance of entrance on night of general entry.
Distance, one mile and a quarter.
THE GUNDAGAI JOCKEY CLUB HANDICAP
of 50 sovs.. with a sweep of 2 sovs. eaclvfor
starters added; second horse to receive 5 sovs.
from the prize, third horse to save sweep.
Nominations, enclosing 1 sov., to be in the
hands of the Secretary by 9 p.m. on Friday.
25th January; weights declared 1st February;
acceptances, enclosing 1 sovto be in the hands
of the Secretary by 9 o’clock p.m. on the 13th
February; balance of entrance (10s.) and sweep
on night of general entry. Distance, two miles.
HACK SELLING RACE of 5 sovs’; winner to be
sold immediately after the race for £10; satch
weights; any surplus to go to theoluh. Dis-
tance, once round the course.
THE MILE HANDICAP of 10 sovs., for all horses;
handicap to be declared one hour after the
Jockey Club Handicap has been run.
GR VND STAND HANDICAP of 20 sovs.. with a
sweep of 1 sov. each for starters; second horse
to receive 5 sovs. from the prize; handicap
declared 46-hour before the race. Distance,
once round the course.
SECOND DAY.
THE LADIES’ PURSE of 20 sovs., with a sweep
of 10s. for starters added, for all horses; second
horse to receive 2 sovs. from the prize; dis-
tance, one mile and a quarter; handicap to be
rwi>,rpd at. 10 o’clock on evening of first da
declared at 10 o’clock on evening of first day s
radhig.
THE PRINCE OF WALES STAKES of 20 sovs.,
for all horses, weight for r.ge: the winner to
be sold immediately after the race for £25—if
entered to be sold for £20, allowed 71b.; if for
£15, allow ’ 14®>.; if for £10, allowed 21B).; dis-
tance, ©m ile and a half.
THE TOWN 1 _ \TE H iNDlCAP of 40 sovs., with
a sweep 9', W ov. each for starters added, second
horse to* rc oive 3 sovs. from the prize; third
horse to save sweep; nominations, enclosing 1
sov., to be in the hands of the Secretary by 9
pm. on Friday, 25th January; weights to be
declared 1st February ; acceptances, enclosing
1 sov., to be in the hands of the Secretary by 9
p m. on the 13th February; distance, one mile
and a half; penalty for winning the Jockey
Club Handicap to be fixed by the handicappers,
maximum 14ft>.
THE HALF-MILE FLUTTER of 5 sovs.; for all
hacks; catch weights; post entrance.
THE FORCED HANDICAP of 5 per cent., de-
ducted from all winners, excepting Hack Sell-
iug Race and Flutter, with 10 sovs. added by the
Oiub; optional to beaten horses; distance, one
mile and a quarter.
RULES AND REGULATIONS.
When not otherwise specified, entrances must he
sent under cover to the Secretary, at Tattersall s,
before 9 o’clock oh the night preceding each day’s
racing, with name, age, colour, pcrloraaamc.s,
iind pedigree of the horse, name of owner, celeura
of the rider, entrance and sweep enclosed.
Entrance, 746 per cent, on amount of prize. NO
LOUIS J. WILSON.
Hon. Secretary.
BUI tl UlIVLy
QUALIF1CA1
TRY THE
Victoria Funiture FoM!
ONCE TRIED WILL BE USED ALWAYS.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
TO WHOLESALE BUYERS.
The abovj may be had at the following’ ware-
houses, viz;—
Holdsworth, Macpherson, and Co., George-street
Ere clous, Doust, and Ce., K'ng-street
B. Kirchner and Co., Wynyard-street
Heldswor'h and Co., ■fl-eorge-street
T. W. Eady and Co., York-street
S. Taylor, Bridge-street
Mason Brotaew, Spring-street
W. B» friend and Co, Y ort-street*
A MERRY CHRISTMAS
ANI>
A HAPPY NEW YEAR
TO ADD!
International Prize,
1S79,
BOOTMAKER.
T ANDERSON begs to returns most sincere
• thanks to the public of New South Wales
for their generous and extensive support during
the present year; and he solicits a continuance of
their patronage in the year ensuing.
ONE TRIAL will suffice to prove the fact that
his 11AND-MADE BOOTS are unrivalled in the
Australian Colonies.
J3?“Note the Address:
J. ANDERSON,
International Prize Bootmaker,
m GE0IiaE-6IRE.il.


Dailey is occasionally epigrammatical (we
might almost say, frequently); but at the Manly
Kegatta banquet he lamentably (Charles Lamb-
entably) missed his point when he made the fol-
lowing observation Charles Lamb quaintly
said of Paris that the Seine was exactly the
size to run through a magnificent street,. It
may with equal truth be said that this lovely bay,
on the shores of which our homes are built, is
exactly the size for the perfect enjoyment df such
a spectacle as it now presents.” Lamb’s remark
did possess quaintness, and was not a bald truism,
dear Dailey.
The New South ]Wales Cyclists Union held
its inaugural race meeting on Saturday afternoon,
at the Agricultural Society’s Grounds, Moore
Park. The cinder-track cut up rather badly,
and towards the finish of the day must have been
as heavy or heavier going, than the grass course
on the Association Ground. Outside the track, the
grounds are in a very rough condition, and ladies
bad to wade ankle-deep in loose sand to reach the
apology for a lawn and a marquee capable of hold-
ing 150 people at the outside. Lee, who gave forth
Saturday last would be his flnai appearance on the
racing track, made a good finish to his racing
career, by winning the One Mile Scratch and
Five Mile Handicap with the greatest ease,
H. Harris won the Maiden Scratch Mile. J. Cop-
land (50 yards) won the Mile Tricycle Handicap.
The Milo Open Handicap fell to H. Kemsherd; E.
Beg beat P. Pearson lor the two-lap Bicycle Han-
dicap, Edwards and George ran away with the
Mile Sociable Handicap. N. Bt. Lambtou fairly
romped away with the Slow Kace, and E. Time-
well won the mile without hurdles.
That Husbakd of Minb is three times the man
he was before he began using ’‘Weils’ Health
Heuewer.” Druggists. Moses, Mess & Co., Sydney
General Agents.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Roy A!/— “ Pirates of Penzance” — p.8.
Opera Hohsb— “The Sunny South ’ in.
TAKEN AT OUR WORD.
Dead heat; the sun was hid
To us —poor toiler I
The sky a boiler-lid.
The earth a boiler.
We sit ’mid gloom and gleam—
Rhyme this between yers—
Half-hid in clouds oi steam,
As fits a genius.
Poor slaves to the inkstand!
Our best sensation
Half inspiration and
Half perspiration.
We “ slang ” our pon, and swore —
“ Since here you bake us.
If we write one line more
The devil take us! ”
We meant to have, you know,
A rare old revel;
We turned around to go—
And lo the devil I*
As usual, we are first in the field with
reliable theatrical information. This, we con-
sider. is chiefly due to enterprise. There is a
meaning in this phrase-which by some might be
considered trite-so far as we are concerned The
meaning is something’ in this way. [Poor stuff,
this. What is the meaning?—Ed. B.] To get any
information about forthcoming events, you have
to beard the lion in his den. The lion, in this in-
stance, is Mr. Musgrove, and we don t mind telling
you—for we can trust to the discretion o r our
readers 1-that people are nervous about inter-
viewing George. We don’t know why. Someone
-we think tie Philosopher Shaw-observed :-
“You can tell a man by his boots. Well. Mus-
grove’s boots are singularly—even painfully—
symmetrical. They have cloth tops and are shiny,
and when he stands he is invariably on an even
keel The balance of him is equally attractive.
About his face there is an interesting pallor,
which Millais-the gicatcat acknowledged pre-
Ranhaclito—has failed to successfully depict. And
if vou link into l.is eyes, you will see there
denicted a woild of the softer passions and
oili-T tilings which we can’t remember
without our chtaloM.e. Yet, for all this, George
seems to inspire, it n t direct awe in the mind of
the p initc, at least that feeling which is said to be
felt by a'l who are about to approach the ‘fiords
A loiatei ” but we were brave. Armed with
several pieces of Mrse to read to him should he
Drove conta u acious, we went in to get the news
ab i it he pantomime. At night, you have to pass
through one mh.e where they take the money,
a id i i the other one the gifted hero of this pretty
reposes. We went through just as they had
done counting the money. They have a splendid
system rc money matters at this theatre. We
mean, a splendid system of confidence. When the
hov to whom the coin has been made over has
lived it un in bags, the money-taker holds him by
the ear while Goodie holds the money-taker by
the coat-collar, and Musgrove holds Goodie by the
elbows. This information may be ot use to those
about to marry, or something. Cut we feel we are
diffuse. [So do we.—Ed. B.j
* * * *
We don’t mind confessing it. We have our
little weaknesses. You mightn’t think so, but we
have. And-you should see our ruby blush—we
like a circus. We went to St. Leon’s the other
night, and the time we had surpassed everything.
This particular circus is bossed by St. Leon, whom
onlv Royalty is permitted to call Gus. Mr. St. fieon
is charmingly polite. He has an air which is all
his own—which is more than can be said (there is
a mild joke in this, if you will only study it) for a
celebrated comedian of our acquaintance. Well,
Mr. St. fieon was kind enough to inaugurate the
gawdust-and-spangle banquet by showing us the
wild and untamed animals. What we were prin-
cipally struck with was the camel. We have
always liked camels, because, although they
freouently contribute to the press, they have
been admitted to exercise a wise discretion in not
launching frequently into poetry. ‘I’ve got him
still you see, said the gifted Gus, pensively;
“ I’ve had,” he remarked, gazing affectionately at
the symmetrical animal, “ a lot of trouble to keep
him” ‘‘Does he break his clothes-line? we
mildly enquired. “Oh, no,” replied St. fieon; “a
thread would hold him: only he lai so often ex-
posed to temptation. You don t mean to say
*hat ” “Oh, no. He is permeated with prin-
ciple-saturated with morality. If even
cat passes, he casta down his eyelids so low that he
trips up the dromedary.” “ Perhaps, then
“Not at all. The fact is,” said Gus, they are
jealous of him. And we never get into a country
town but improper overtures are made to him to
edit the local paper.”
* ♦ *
The show is flrst-olass. A Japanese — “Mr.
Bwar” (we consider that calling a Japanese Ewar
is de-basin) was very great on a telegraph wire.
He did things on that wire that we couldn t do on
the floor when in a condition of sobriety. We
blush to thina what we could do in the other case.
Then there was the prettiest pony In the world-
introduced by Mr. Jones —a gazelle-like athlete
who turns the scale at thirty-seven stone.
Talking of Mr. Jones, by the way, we are
reminded of the camel. We don’t know why,
but we are. It was, perhaps, while the horse opera
(so musical was every motion ot the pony s!) was
in progress that Mr. St. fieon came up and beamed
on us He said (some of us was buried in an orange
at the time) I think of introducing a newfact:
to have an Indian lady ride the camel. What would
be a good name for the lady—one that would look
well in a three-sheeter ?” A name for the lady
who rides the camel ?” we said pondenngly. How
about 4 fia Dame aux Camelhair ? With a tear
he left us.
♦ * *
Comme nous avons dit— [Don’t be lavish !—
Ed. B.] the show is flrst-class right through; but
perhaps the best part of it was the tumbling. This
was led by Monsieur Schoe, a name which is
strangely suggestive of that of his distinguished
countryman —A-bout. We have seldom seen any-
thing better done than this—though we must
genteelly confess to having, ourselves, executed
some remarkable feats on certain occasions, when,
having been, in our capacity of Weed-Marshal at
our Buffalo Lodge, partaking too freely of the
“gatta.” There was only one lady in the
show—Miss Vernon—and she went through
an act with Mr. St. Leon, junior. This
was exceedingly clever, though the picture
where she stood upon his head reminded us for-
clbly of a domestic passage which we are willing,
but unable, to forget.
• • •
One clown—Mr. Barnard—impressed us as
being very funny. Perhaps that is because we
have a bad memory. In the latter remark there
is a world of “ dark and bloody satire.” The other
jester was also diverting ; though we could not
nut consider it a pity that ho had left all his h’s at
Bega. The band was elegant. Pitt-street, South,
is the scene of joy, Go there.
* * * *
Irving’s debut in New York as Mathias in
“The Bells,” proved a scene of extraordinary
enthusiasm. So the “ great Henry,” in tace ot his
splendid reception, can afford to disregard the
two or three unfriendly notices that have appeared
in certain papers ; plenty of such having issued in
London, in days gone by, from men who are now
his most fulsome adulators. That exception
should be taken to some of Irving’s most marked
peculiarities Is natural enough—nobody has
attempted to deny their existence—but for the
New Yokk Woked to describe his face as “ hard
and expressionless ” is a little too ridiculous. How-
ever, when we find Montgomery (another member
of the opposition) describing him as merely “ an
actor with an interesting personality,” we can
just about gauge the value of both criticisms.
Ellon Terry won golden opinions upon making her
first appearance as Queen Henrietta, in “ Charles
I.” (a play in which Henry’s mannerisms, by the
way, are rather obtrusive), and we fancy that her
Portia, in conjunction with Irving’s Shylock, will
“ fetch ’em big.” Altogether, tbe success of the
tour, both from a financial and artistic point of
view, seems assured, “Louis XI.,” “Hamlet,’
“Lyons Mail,” “Merchant of Venice,” “The
Cup,” and “Much Ado About Nothing,” being
certain to “go” well. The scenic effects, for
which Irving’s management is so famous, are com-
paratively few in the two first pieces that were
produced, but the setting of some of the others—
“ The Cup,” in particular—will doubtless astonish
even the New Yorkers.
* * * *
A little par. for a little lady. Very well,
then; Madame Pasta-Moore is engaged as ballet-
mistress and ’premiere danseuse (this comes of being
born at Paroo—we mean Paree) at the Theatre
Royal for the pantomime. Madame Emilia (we
kiss our cleanest hand) purposes now to drop her
anchor in Sydney ; in fact- our little gleam of
gloom—being stationary (laboured this) Pasta-
Moore will not get Pasta moorings. [Very feeble.]
It was a vision, in gorgeous raiment. It
had sapphires and diamonds in its shirt front, and
single-stone brilliants on its fingers. It was a
sparkle, a glitter, and a glare. Its clothes were
sleek, and its boots lustrous. You have divined
already, we do not doubt—for the world is not
large enough to contain two such lovely men.
Zulu Thompson. There is nothing we know more
beautiful than “ W.H.,” excepting snow when the
big pale moon is gleaming on it. But Zulu
can give the moon points, anyhow. For
instance: We have seen, through the medium
of a borrowed telescope, the man in the moon,
several times. We have contemplated him with
interest, and we have chronicled his every grin.
But he can’t smile half as big as William. Perhaps
that is because he never gave away anything in a
dramatic show.
• • •
Mr. Thompson is jubilant. He said —“ I
am, by profession, an artist of the pre-Raphaclite
school, but I am, by choice, a lecturer. For years
my natural eloquence has enthralled three hemi-
spheres ; and at;length I resolved (having nothing
furtner here to conquer) to go to London. There
I saw the Prince of Wales, Moody and Sankey,
King Kalakaua, and also Beverley and Telbin. The
latter gentlemen painted me my Zulu War-
diorama, for which I paid them £30,000. The
money was put into a leather bag, and
every coin was carefully tested by each of
these illustrious artists. “I should like it,”
he remarked, with a soft and gentle smile, “ I
should like it to be recorded that, when the dis-
tinguished pair had done biting the coins, their
teeth had disappeared.” Now, whenever either Mr.
Beverley or Mr. Telbin fancies a trotter he has
to employ a local boy (whose terms are reasonable)
to eat it for him.”
« • •
“ I took,” said Zulu (without a smile)
“ £513 in five nights at Newcastle, and I have just
paid Gordon £800 for my new panorama of the
Egyptian War.” “ It was a source,” he continued
with a meaning smile, “ of some satisfaction to me
not only to pay a deathless artist for deathless
pictures ; but to pay a deathless artist who has
been there.” Ouf I [This is a cough.]
♦ * ♦
Here we pressed the great man’s hand in
token of silent sympathy. “ I Intend,” he proceeded,
in measured tones, “to give away, during my stay
in Sydney, £60 worth of gifts a night. (Here wfl
became suddenly interested; more than interested
—entranced! “I open,” he went on, in a voice
which, for melting melody, shames the iEolian
harp, “ at the Academy of Music, on Boxing Night.
Gordon’s panorama will then be presented for the
first time, and every one who smells nice will get a
teapot.” Then the nurse came in with the baby
(such a nice baby 1), and broke up the interview.
• • •
Zulu Thompson’s motto is, “ I really give
them away.” We know that. N.B.—Our “little
palm,”
• • • •
The Montague-Turners, both looking on ne
peux mieux [More French!!—Ed. B.] open on Box-
ing Night at the Gaiety, in “ The Bohemian Gyurl
and with them Verdi (no less!), Gordon, Teresa
and Eugenie Horan, and a lot more. Charley says
his ex.’s are £380 a week; so he wants the opera-
loving “push” to roll up. He is going to give,
amongst other things, Victor Masses “ Paul and
Virginia,” which, he seems to say, is to
be translated for him by a man who writes
more for, than in the papers. And, while
on singers, let us fit in the fact that Knight Aston
sings in the “ Messiah” for the Liedertafel on Wed-
nesday and Friday, and is—thank Heaven!-going
to settle here. Oh, and a correspondent writes us
as follows:—“Up the line, on a recent evening,
a certain professional lady went to delight
the inhabitants with her celebrated lecture on
music, &c. To her great indignation, an audience
of six presented itself, the counter-attraction
of a tea-meeting proving more to the mind of
the people of that place. She dismissed her
scanty audience, and returned disconsolate to
Sydney.” We don’t believe this. For, the last
time we went to hear this lady, we couldn’t get
in. She told us, on enquiry, that the key was kept
by the sexton.
* * * *
Now, then. Up goes the curtain to slow
music. Mr. George Darrell opens on the
23nd, at the Opera House, in “ The Sunny South.”
’Twas in a valley where a brook its winding course
in summer took, where the notes of the tropic-
bird upon its mossy banks is heard, that we last
saw George. “ What do you consider the biggest
play extant?” we enquired, while Mr. Darrell
languidly trifled with a vase of crumpled rose-
leaves beside him. “ There are only two plays—
properly so called—now-a-days,” he remarked.
“ And these are ?” “ ‘ Hamlet,’ and ‘ The Sunny
South.’” “Your life has been a chequered one,
we suppose ?” This enquiringly. “ I don’t play
’em,” was his curt response. “ What?” “ Checquers.
Nothing under lawn-tennis, or a ducal seance
at all-fours.” “You have travelled?” we said.
“Yes,” he replied. “ While on my second voyage
to America, I had for fellow passengers to
’Frisco—Procter, the astronomer, and the King
of the Sandwich Islands. There were two ladies
on board. I introduced Proctor to one, and sang
love-duets with the other myself. Proctor took a
mean advantage of me, and under the excuse of
teaching her astronomy, poured love tales into my
inamorata’s ear, whilst 1 was initiating the King
of the Savages into the mysteries of half-crown
euchre. Proctor subsequently married the lady—
she proved to be a widow with two children, and I
forgave him. The King conferred so many
honours on me, that when 1 left the ship you
couldn’t see me for decorations. I gave them all
away, however, except one. So I am still a Knight
of the Hissing Order of the Frying-pan.” Then,
dreamilyIn Philadelphia, 1 played a ‘star’
engagement at the Arch-street Theatre. I had
Forepaugh’o Circus on one street, and Barnum’s
World Fair on another, in opposition, and yet the
board-bills were paid. This was my greatest
achievement. Directly my landlord knew this,
he ordered a chain, and we used to walk to and
fro from the theatre linked uuamicably to-
gether. The result, however, was pleasing.
The * Sunny South’ was such a big success that
Forepaugh’sshow went as high as Franklin’s kite,
and Barnum bribed me with peanuts to desist.
. . . Information:—Of the American artists who
stand out prominent, let me mention Mary Ander-
son and Edwin Booth. Mary is a poem [Author!
Eu. B.] in flesh and blood—the only actress 1 wot
ot capable of realising and embodying the great
classic conceptions. Her voice is music, her every
action grace personified. Her form is willowy,
supple, undulating; her face glows with Ihteili-
pence and fascination. She charms you at once
with a subtle power, claiming admiration, defying
criticism! She is 30 years of age, single, earns ten
thousand pounds a year, and is managed by a step-
father who sleeps outside her bedchamber door by
night, and guards her with two bulldogs by day.
George can talk poetry like this even when
he's bored. When he’s not bored, you can
just imagine the beauty of the key in
which he rhythmically sings. Listen, once
again, to the melting voice of the merman;—
Of all the artists I saw in London, commend me to
Mrs. Kendal and Miss Ellen Terry. These ladies
are sufficiently natural without being artificial.
The cloud of modernism has not eclipsed the rays
of their talent. What do I think of Irving as an
actor? I saw him only as Romeo. It would be
unfair to criticise him in that character. Physi-
cally he was unsuited for the part. But the man
is a genius, undoubtedly. Above all, he merits
every praise. He is neither knock-kneed, weak-
voiced, nor full of mannerisms. He speaks plainly,
and makes his points forcibly and legitimately.
He is essentially one of the few actors remaining
who cling to the classic traditions of the stage.” A
tribute from one great actor to another. Thus
(and much more) the gorgeous George.
* * *
Lives there a party with soul so dead, who
could unto himself have said —“I have the stern
will, and I can withstand the joy of seeing this
man?” No! Small caps, please, No!
« ♦ * *
So it seems W. J. Holloway is going to
England early next year. He is going there “ to
secure a number of new plays, suitable for presen-
tation before Australian audiences.” This means,
we suppose, that he will bring back a cat-circus or
a mule-melodrama. Anyhow, we are happy over-
one thing—he can’t bring out anything much
worse than some shows that are running now.
* * * *
Here is a fashionable item. Some gay
young bloods recently gave a very swell dinner at
Richmond (6n the Thames) to certain ladies of the
ballet and chorus. During the prandial proceed-
ings, one of the vestal virgins declared that ‘ she
never could bring herself to eat a Guinea-pigs
egg.” One of the haw-haw promoters of the feast,
under the pretence of informing her that it was
the Guinea fowl and not the Guinea pig that
manufactured eggs, drew the attention of the
whole company to the poor girl’s ignorance of
natural history, and then there was a rude, savage
burst of unsympathetic laughter, which brought
the tear to her eye and tne neck of a brandy
decanter to her hand at the same instant. It was
the heir to an ancient British baronetcy who got
the chips of the bottle in his skull and the contents
all over his good clothes, and it took the united
efforts of three titled guests and a couple of the
Horse Guards Blue to smooth out the unseemly
trouble. There are several morals attached to
this.
* * * *
Kate Thayer had a farewell benefit at the
Adelaide Town Hall last Friday week. Kate
Thayer sang very well, indeed, but she opened her
mouth too wide. When you can see so far down
a vocalist’s throat that you can trace the “ mar-
bling” on the inside of her collar-bone, youf<or-
get all about her singing, and hold on madly with
both hands to your chair. Will. Chapman was a
very nice fellow, too, but he could play a jews’-
harp nearly as well as he could write leaders in this
country. He got a billet not long ago as musical
“cricket” on the Register. Which reminds us
that we, a little while ago, saw some notices written
by a certain professional—not W.E.C. —on his (the
professional’s) wife’s performances. They are
apparently sweet and elegant specimens of con-
jugal love and devotion. We used to write
notices like those once. That was when a little
shell of an ear was on our shoulder, and the pen
had to travel through a shower of golden curls.
We used to read those critiques over together by
the fire-side, while we roasted chestnuts on the
bars. Beautiful critiques, those! We felt every
line of them. Our editor, at that time, said he
thought they were very pretty, too. But he was a
great smoker and what? Well, Jennie Lee is
playing “Jo” in Adelaide, and the L.V.G. con-
siders the play “ an even and well-connected per-
formance.” Atissue! That’s the only way we
know of spelling a sneeze. But we’re not great on
the spell in this office. No time to learn. We’re
too often under it. What shall you hear now?
If you like, that W. S. Gilbert has built himself a
splendid house in Harrington Square, London, and
everything in it is supposed to be in the highest
style of art. It is not generally known, by the
way, that Mrs. G. is a lady of homely aspect, who
is said to insist upon having always her own way
and William Schenk’s as well. People say that she
terms her lord’s work “a lot of rubbish,” and
when! he is reading a song to her, will all the while
eating bread-and-marmalade.
* * * *
It has come out, after all, who Mr. Lan-
kester, author of the (merry) “ Guv’nor,” is. None
other than H. B. Farnie, whom the world did not
credit, most certainly, with so much talent. The
mere fact of the comedy being by Farnie, though,
suggests a suspicion of a Gallic origin. It seems
to us that Farnie has also written a comic opera
libretto called “Nell Gwynne,” which is being
(mark this) translated into French by Meilhac and
Gille, in order that Planquette may set it to music.
His last opera, “ Rip,” has already run more than
a year. We should mention that Yiolet Cameron
is to play Nell Gwynne, and of the lady who super-
seded her for a brief period—Mias Agnes Consuelo
—nothing further has been heard. Neither has
the name again been whispered of the band
sergeant under whose auspices, &c. Oh, and it
has turned out to be all bosh about Miss Anderson
(who seems very successful as Pauline at the
Lyceum) not wishing to meet the Prince of Wales.
Both the Prince and Princess sent for her to their
box after the show, and the Princess gave “ our
Mary,” as the Yanks call the lady, her royal
bouquet. Fancy the height of “ our Mary ’s” heels
now I And, with a wild whoop, we must write it
down in letters of fire, that D’Orsay Ogden did
Campbelltown on race night, and that Sims Reeves
received £150 at the Covent Garden promenade
concerts for one appearance. Over the bridge
now, and you will hear the plaudits Hart’s Happy
Hours are eliciting from the Candelo public; and
as soon as you feel better, learn that there is a
paper in England meaner than anything here ex-
cept—[just sol— Ed. B.l That is the Leeds Mer-
cury. It is enormously wealthy, will take thea-
trical advertisements, but will not notice dramatic
gerformances, “ from conscientious scruples.” It,
owever, made an exception in the cases of Irving,
and of Marie Roze—writing, for the latter, an
elaborate notice on—yes—“ II Trovatore!!”
The Abgus New Guinea expedition has
been disbanded by “The Vagabond,” who now
returns South. The season, according to Julian,
is far too advanced for exploration.
Dr. J. Simms, the great pnysiognomist,
who has a world-wide reputation, delivered his
sixty-seventh and closing lecture here to a crowded
audience, last Friday evening, with the ablest dis-
course on “Love and Marriage” heretofore de-
livered in t is city. We agree with the Pictorial
World, of Loudon, that “ Dr. Simms is known as
a most skilled practical physiognomist,” and wish
him many more hearers in his useful career. So
mote it be.
The following intercolonial erieket matches
have been fixed, and will eventuate on the Asso-
ciation Ground:—Victoria a. Sj dney, Dee. 39 and
31; Hardware team, Jan. 3 and ?; Combined Hard-
ware and Softgoods team, Jan. 4 and 5. A band
will be provided on each occasion; and as em-
ployers as well as players are taking interest in the
matter, this will probably be the most successful
effort yet made to establish regular intercolonial
matches of this special character.
Keep the kidneys healthy and unob-
structed, with Hop Bitters, and you need not fear
sickness. Bead.
[* The Printer’s devil. — Ed. B.]
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“ W. J.S.”: You can’t expect a member of
Parliament to be perfect in the Pentateuch, when,
just as he is getting the hang of Samuel, or wrest-
ling with Joshua, a spectral voice in front of hia
pub. will suddenly call out “ Wan portergaff!”
r ‘ W.J.W.”: (1) No; it was in Nov., 1866. (2) After
all, there is no great difference between the class
of intelligence needed for making a profit out of a
barrowful of cocoanuts or a fire-proof safe full of
bonds. The capacity in both cases is of a very low
order, and history is no more careful to remember
[ the dealings of an ordinary millionaire than those
of a common shopkeeper. The interest awakened
in the former case is always temporary, though,
of course, the envy may be profound
“ C.” : The first Dufferin Peerage was Sir I.
G. Blackwood’s price when the Irish Union
was engineered by carotid-cutting Castlereagh —
“C.H.K.”: Thanks “Franeaise” (Braidwood):
Curiously enough, your sketch has not even now
come to hand “ D.R.” (Heathoote Valley, N.Z.):
The particular sketch sent hardly suits us. Will
you try another ? “ W.B. A.”: A deal too hot....
“T.H.”: Your stud-horse groom was evidently
Tumutch for you—that is, if you were fool enough
to pay him the extras he charged you...“M.W.J.
We must decline to allow you to compare a man
to Judas Iscariot merely because you don’t like
him. People often compare their enemies to
Judas Iscariot—and they very frequently, we are
ready to admit, do poor old Judas a gross injustice.
Judas mayn’t have been all bad. De Quincy had a
good word or two to say for him. Perhaps you
haven’t read De Quincy. Perhaps, also, you have
failed to read Story's great poem, “The Roman
Lawyer in defence of Judas Iscariot.”
“Philos Anthropos”: Not adapted —“J.E.S.”;
Not up to the mark this time. Try again —“N.
S.W. Artillery”: Must stand over for a week at
least... “Chirpie”: Will read and consider
“Arouet”: Mere Mary-Janeism “Solomon”:
We believe both Mr. Armit and Mr. Morrison,
especially Mr. Morrison. Armit says New Guinea
is “ a perfect Paradise of glorious tropical vege-
tation, with great areas of land fit for the cultiva-
tion of cotton, sugar, coffee, and, in fact, of j.11
tropical fruits and plants of use to man.” The
niggers, he alleges, are “ gentle and kind: demons
to work for very small rewards, truthful, loyal,
and obedient, and honest almost to folly.” Morri-
son, on the other hand, describes the country as
very poor, and the people as “ greedy, treacher •
ous, unwilling to work, unfriendly—in fact,
hostile in the extreme —and the most audacious
thieves that can bo conceived, always watching an
opportunity to attack his little party, but too
cowardly to come on.” “Loyalty” (Cooktown),
and “Scraps”: Received “Blayney”: Very
acceptable, but held over... “Parent of three
pupils”: Communication marked “strictly pri-
vate” received. You can depend upon us. To
keep things dark is our line. Of course, we lose
by it, but principle is everything—“This Child”:
In either of the cases you put, if the sum charged
is a fair one (t.e. if the architect charged no more
than a reasonable professional commission, and
the brass band no more than its ordinary scale
rate), we don’t see how there can be a fraud
in either the architect or the band devoting
moneys earned to any purpose they choose. A
swindle would undoubtedly be perpetrated were
architects or bands to aid public institutions em-
ploying them to obtain £ for £ from the consoli-
dated revenue on the “ salted-invoice ” idea.
We do not undertake to return rejected
communications. Writers should keep copies.
Solution of triple acrostic which appeared
on page 15 of our issue of 8th inst. —Would,
Flesh, Devil—as under:—
(1) (2) (3)
WakeFielD
O a i eLammK
REV
Lodus StahdI
D e a t H-waiL
Modini’s Firearms Depot, Brickfield Hill,
Sydney.
There are very few houses better known in
Sydney than Mr. G. B. Modini’s celebrated armoury,
or firearms depots at George-street, or, as It is
better known, Brickfield-hill, Nearly every sports-
man in the colonies has had experience of the fact
that at Modini’s the best weapons manufactured
in the world are at all times obtainable ; and
the rapid manner in which the business has deve-
loped during the last few years—in fact since its
first establishment 28 years ago—is proof of genuine
catering for public requirements. Mr. Modini has
just received, per mail steamer, the newest pat-
terns of rifles, the finest made weapons ever im-
ported here. All round the establishment, in neat
show-cases, are sporting weapons of all descrip-
tions—breech-loading shot-guns, and light well-
made rifles of all kinds. The great majority of
the weapons are imported purely to meet the re-
quirements of country sportsmen, so that any
persons in the country districts who wish advice as
to the best rifle or gun to Invest in should com-
municate direct with Mr. Modini, who will give all
the necessary information, saving both money
and disappointment. Mr. Modini has one of the
largest stocks of firearms to be found in any one
house in the colony, the makers represented being
W. Greener, Charles Osborne (sole agent), Aldisand
Son, Scott, &c. Every description of ammunition
is likewise obtainable. Mr. Modini has a great
stock also of revolvers, of every known make —
probably cheaper than they can elsewhere be
found. A department of business in which Mr-
Modini has a very large trade is cutlery of every
variety. This embraces one of the most valu-
able stocks in the colonies, the best goods from
English, Italian, and other Continental factories
being represented. Mr. Modini has a large factory
in connection with his establishment, employing
several expert gunsmiths for manufacturing as
well as repairing.


V.I.HUK
Continues to receive Large Shipments of
Barnett Samuel & Sons’ G-old Medal
“US’ OHM EAEOHiE.
In these instruments the voicing of the reeds is substituted for the old style of tuning,
giving a large volume of broad, smooth tone, superior in filling and carrying powers, and
the utmost promptness of utterance.
BARNETT SAMUEL t. SONS
— . I
*
Also, suitable for
Christmas Presents and New Year’s Grifts,
Aceordeons
Banjos
Batons
Clarionets
Cornets
Concertinas
Drums
Fifes
Flutes
Flageolets
Flutinas
A VARIETY OP MISCELLANEOUS INSTRUMENTS, COMPRISING-
Guitars
Harmonicans
Harmoniflutes
Insulators
Metronomes
Musical Boxes
Music Folios
„ Rolls
„ Books
,, Stools
Stands
Piccolos
Pitch Forks
„ Pipes
Post Horns
Statuettes of Musicians
Violins
Violin Strings
„ Bows, and every
requisite for the violin
Violinoellos
Zithers
PIANO, ORGAN, & MUSIC WAREHOUSE,
356 G-eorge-street, Sydney,
OPPOSITE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
SOLD BY ELLIOTT BROS., SYDNEY.
CANT B BEAT
TOBACCO WAREHOUSE
pal
(
5
$5
&
■S
8)
so
ss
3$V:
s
v
1
■ <
HAYMARKET. SYDNEY.
HAWKES AND COMPANY,
TATTERSALL’8 HORSE BAZAAR
and
SALE YARDS,
CORNER of CASTLEREAGH and HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sales Dally, or outside when required.
Horses kept at Livery; excellent accommodation
and fodder.
All kinds of Vehicles and Horses on Hire, day
or night.
Weddings and Picnic Parties supplied with good
carriages.
TRAMS SET DOWN AT THE DOOR,
Conveyances fitted with Hampers for Excursion
Parties.
Sale, Livery, and Let-out Department entirely
separate.
GILBEY’S SILVERSTRBAM SCHNAPPS.
Gilbey’s Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can be recommended as being of the highest
quality, and superior to any imported.
TUCKER & C»., Sole Agents,
3W George-street, Sydney.
P. R. HOLDSWORTH,
AUCTIONEER, VALUATOR,
House, Land & Estate Agent
63 ROYAL ARCADE PITT STREET.
QHOOSE YOUR PIANO
AT
CHARLES HUENERBEIN’S
178 Pitt Street.
BEST INSTRUMENTS 1 CHEAPEST PRICES !
LADIES! LADIES!! LADIES!!!
Have you heard the News?
HERE IT IS !
Read !! Pause !! Reflect! ! Buy ! ! Try !!
TIl© Ei^res,
Eos, Domestic and Eancy Dyeing.
For 6d. sufficient Dye of any Colour is given to dye from one to four
pounds of any Goods, according to Shade wanted.
ANY ONE CAN EASILY COLOUR
k DRESSES, COATS, CLOAKS, SCARES, HOODS,
YARNS, STOCKINGS, CARPET BAGS,
RIBBONS, EEATHERS,
OR ANY FABRIC OR FANCY ARTICLE TO ANY SHADE WANTED, AND WITHOUT
RISK OR FAILURE.
These Dyes "re far superior to all other dyes or dye stuffs, not only in the bright shades,
but In Black, Brown, Navy Blue, Seal Brown, Cardinal Red, and other dark and rich colours,
so much desired by all, but hitherto not obtainable of good quality. Each dye is complete
in itself, thereby saving all extra expense and trouble of buying other articles to set the
colour. As much dye is given as in the Is. packet of other kinds, and even more in many
cases. Try one package, and be convinced.
Price—6d. per Package, all Colours.
LIST OE COLOURS
YELLOW, SCARLET, PLUM, SLATE, DARK GREEN, ROSINE (Pink), VIOLET,
MAGENTA, DARK BLUE, SEAL BROWN, PURPLE, GARNET, BISMARCK, NAVY
BLUE, CARDINAL RED. DARK WINE, BLACK, LIGHT BLUE, BROWN, CRIMSON,
OLD GOLD, ORANGK, OREEN, MAROON, DRAB, OLIVE GREEN, TERRACOTTA,
CRUSHED STRAWBERRY, PEACOCK BLUE, BLUB FOR COTTON, SCARLET FOR
> COTTON, YELLOW FOR COTTON. CARDINAL FOR COTTON.
The above Dyes are prepared for dyeing any article of Silk, Wool. Feathers, Hair,
Paper, Basket Work, Easter Eggs, Liquids, and all kinds of Fancy Work. Most of them will
colour Cotton, Linen, Jute, and every species of fabric or fibre. For making inks they are
unsurpassed.
We warrant these Dyes to colour more goods, package for package, than any other
dyes in the market, and to give more brilliant and durable colours. Wherever known, they
are fast superseding all other dye stuffs.
Ask lor the Diamond Dyers; and if you cannot get them, take no others, but send to
us. We will send any colour by mail on receipt of 6d.
For further particulars, and a full sample Card of Colours, enclose a 2d. stamp to our
Agent in Australia, and you will receive it per return post.
Try the “Diamond” Gold, Silver, and Bronze Paints, and
Artists’ Black, 6d. per Package.
Mandtacxubebs’ A«knt ton Australia and New Zealand—
W. H. H. Lane, Sydney, N.S.W.
SOLD BY ELLIOT!' BEOS, akd 00., BRISBANE.
Sold by Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne.
Sold by Hocke, Tompsitf and Co., Melbourne.
<»
\\
10,000
Christmas Presents
From £1 to £10.
1
THOS. A. SMITH,
Importer of Novelties in China & Glass ,
CORNER OF
Pilt-M j[j Royal toil,
S3rd.3n.e37 - .
PRINTERS
f
IO TOEK-ST.


BRIEF MENTION.
Somebody writes suggesting that a Christ-
mas dinner should be given to the aborigines.
Would it not be more in accordance with oUr
past policy to present them with Christmas coffins?
When the Inspector of Weights and
Measures tenters small suburban groceries, the
btopMtetors don’t waht him to take the scales off
his teyes half so much as they want him to take his
eyes off the scales.
Old Dash, one of the earliest of the
pidneers oht Wfest, recently took it into his head
that his daughter’s education was being neglected,
and ordered a piano up from Adelaide. C pon the
arrival of the instrument. Miss Dash struck a
chord, when she started back and exclaimed to her
sister: “ Holy I Kate, come and look at this
box. Father says it's music ; it’s got black and
white teeth, and if you scratch it down the face
it barks like a bulldog.” Fact I
It was up North. A hawker and a country
editor quarrelled. The hawker bit off apiece of
the ear of the editor. The hawker was fined, but
the editor did not get back his slab of ear. The
hawker now uses it as a tarpaulin.
Darwin is right. People are adapting
themselves to their environment more and more
every day. A Maori woman at Aota has given
birth to a child with two faces. This child is evi-
dently either a born politician or a born patriot.
Or, perhaps, he is intended for the church.
They say the Viceroy of India has “ some
colonial wine that has been 50 years in bottle.”
Wq don’t doubt it. Its age will, doubtless, In-
crease. They are all honest, abstemious people iu
the Government residence at Calcutta. The ser-
vants, even, wouldn’t touch it on any account.
Five of the most experienced ship’s cor-
porals, the European jhail says, have left
England to join the Nelson iu Sydney, with the
view to prevent the present wholesale desertion of
men. This is good nevys. Wc however
fefttliM borporftii tbenuKHree will be chained up.
At a recent banquet thirty-three Western
fellows put away, besides the solid vivers, thirty-
eight bottles of alleged champagne, a gallon of
“ port,” a gallon of sherry, 8 gallons of claret, 3
gallons of colonial wine, and II bottles of ale—say
20 gallons of liquor among the lot of them—several
of whom were teetotallers.
Coranderrk is the Victorian station
where blacks are cared for under the direction of
the Aborigines Protection Board A v>sit was
paid it the other day. In tne school were forty
kids of dU degree* of blackness. The elder girls
“|ire carefully locked in the dormitories at night.”
With the exception of religion, nothing is so con-
ducive to morality as patent locks and barred
windows.
Some men are good. John Morgan was
good. He is dead. Most good men are dead. He
was a miner at Gaglehawk. A fall of earth killed
him. He had an hour’s notice before death. He
spent this hour in oraying. We should havesnent
it in getting out of the way of the < a r h. But we
are not lohn Morgan. We are wickc i. And we
are alive. Yes, alive still.
The Gundagai Bailey, after calling the
local Elworthv “ the champion lick-spittlor of
the colony,” because of its having expressed
sorrow at the death of two pet dogs, proceeds to
censure the conduct of six male members of the
oongiegation of St John’s, wno in the absence of
»he churchwardens allowed the minister in his
cassock to collect the offertory.
THE PHANTOM.
It, is luralng in the air,
To our horror and our sorrow;
It comes with the summer fair,
And it may be here to-morrow 1
’Tis a bigger bore than Boacb,
’Tis more maddening than Triokett,
That dread Phantom we impeach;
And his awful name is—Cricket.
The Bathurst people object to female
prisoners being drafted there. The papers call
them *• social rubbish,” and are very indignant.
Their presence on leaving gaul is “a source V»f
distress and injury to the citizens.” Wc und -r-
siaud that a meeting w.is called t.) consider tlio
4 matter the other day. and before tho proceedings
commenced, a deep voice in the body of the hall
said —“ Let the party with the square scales speak
first.” The proceedings then terminated.
Telegram in a Rum of last week:—“Mr.
Henry Woods, of Merino, has been killed through
being thrown out of his body, the horse of which
bolted.” This sad affair will, we hope, be a warn-
ing to him, and to others, not to meddle with
emetics, and never to attach a horse to their body,
even If it happen to be a cart; also to telegraphic
correspondents, not to make asses of themselves
more frequently than convenient. Further, that
sobriety is a good thing, even in journalism.
At a revival service, held near Sandhurst
lately, a convert declared that he had been throusrh
Heaven and Hell, and recognised several acquaint-
ances. We don’t doubt it—especially in Hell. This
reminds us of a dream that one of our prominent
citizens had shortly after he was made a C.M.G.
(He told it to his cook, who told it to a policeman,
wno told it to us.). Ha dreamt he was in Hell. He
recognise! several acquaintances there. But they
would not recognise him. Even in Hell the line is
drawn at some things.
Ghosts. I his will make you shiver
Ghosts have been seen near Booligal, which,'
as far as we can make out from the map, is some-
where between Wagga and blazes- This takes
away on© weight from our minds. We used to be
troubled thinking where the souls of lunatics
would go. They could hardly, in common fair-
ness, be sent to the bourne from whence no bur-
glar or politician returns. We mean to Hell. Now
wc know wher' they go. They go to Booligal.
This is certain. Only the ghost of a lunatic could
go to Booligal. That is, if they had once seen it.
The editor of the Bega Gazette says that
the other night he heard a shuffling noise.” and
thought it was “a fresh subscriber.” We are
sorry to hear that the other subscriber is dead,
and still sorrier to learn that his supposed suc-
cessor only turned out to be “ a native bear," who
had come to apply for the editorship, stating that
he was willing, at a moment’s notice, to resign bis
appointment as travelling correspondent of the
Down and Gum-tree Journal,. In reply, the
editor stated that be was running the paper him-
self, then, but he would let his visitor have
the editorship lor ft mouth or two. m he woe
anxious to get away rabbit-poisoning. The next
day they parted—the last commands the retiring
editor laying on the new ore, being—“ always be
honest in your dramatic criticism
Our American exchanges have always
some new wonder to write about. The latest is a
petrifying spring discovered by a man in Alabama.
He says it turns either animal or vegetable sub-
stances into stone almost instantly. He has evi-
dently tried it He has made a petrified liar of
himself already, now ti’ey are going to petrify
the dead and use them as statues. We were up a
trifle earlier than our friend across tne Pacific in
this little matter. Over a year ago, we published
the prospectus of “A Corpse-pr< serving Com-
pany,” whim contained this idea and a bushel of
others whl • i our smart friends couldn't think of
In a centner, if they were to grow bald with medi-
tation. We only mention this in passing. We
have no objection to their borrowing our ideas.
We can spare them. Neither does the man who
wrote the article. He is dead. And, as ho led a
fast, not to say sinful, life while here, we suppose
his soul has gone to America.
A much-e>teemed country exchange of
ours, the name of which we have, however, for-
gotten, has discoveied that there is a city iu
Brazil, the corporation of which has found out a
certain cure for drunkenness. This is how thev
do it:—“ All those who have been locked up dur-
ing the night are turned out at daylight to sweep
the mud off the streets. The curiousspe ctacle has
been seen of a gentleman in a swallow-tailed coat
and a white t*e, handling a broom. It is a perleet
cure.” * ell, it may be—in Brazil. But we hardly
think it would be so efficacious in Sydney. In the
first place, the whole male population of the city
would have to get drunk as one man, and be kept
at work for a year to clear awav ail the mud in
our streets. This, of course, would be impracti-
cable. There would be no morttl punishment in
shovelling mud for drunkenness if all of us got
drunk and were shovelling mud. Besides we
would not like a stranger to see the weakness of
our cleverest politicians and journalists advertised
in this way. It is bad enough to know it our-
selves. On the whole we don’t think the Brazilian
plan is of mucn account. To be worked properly
it requires n rity wilh ‘ithor l<-« s drunkards or less
umd th-n onto Lias. A ua we ououid like to aba t.ha
city tUttt cuu bent ua Ivc either. * 1 0
The Euchred Delegate.
[For the first time in thirty y< ars, Mr. Service looks over the wall of his cabbage garden, and sees the capital of Australasia.]


The New Chum’s Christmas Letter.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Christmas 1 yet, while I am writing,
The weather is fearfully warm,
And mosquitoes make life quite exciting
By taking their meals otf my arm.
t)av bv day I am gradually shrinking—
For it’s awfully hot in the sun:
If I melt on like this, sir, I’m thinking.
There won’t be much left of your son.
Though the nights are, no doubt, very charming,
I can’t get the rest that I might;
Of a truth, it is fairly alarming,
The way these mosquitoes do bite.
They make a dead set at a new chum
(I wish you could look at my phiz);
There's a fl ivour about us that suits e’m—
The deuce «nly knows what it is.
How different to Christmas at home! for,
I daresay the snow’s lying thick:
I hope It is, iust for the youngsters.
Ah, well! I confess I’m home-sick;
And, bent as I was upon leaving
Old England a few months ago,
Now Christmas is here, I am grieving
For loss of the sleet and the snow.
A picnic my friends are arranging—
The picnics out here, too, are nice—
Yet the best 1 wou Id lief be exchanging
For one little turn on the ice.
Just now I can’t help but remember.
In spite of the gay Summer flowers,
The glow of the big blazing embeis
That brightened a Christmas of ours.
Why, sometimes, I think I am dreaming—
Ah! often and often I do—
For a Christmas in Summer is seeming
A something too strange to be true
But old ties are hard, sir, to sever;
And my heart has its sharp, bitter pain,
When I think that, perhaps, I may never
Spend Christmas in Winter again.
But, there! that's enough of repining;
1 ought to see things at their best,
And rejoice in the sun that is shining
On this land so abundantly blessed.
Why, perhaps, if I had my heart’s yearning,
And were back on my own English shore,
I should want to be quickly returning
To live in Australia once more.
You mustn’t take heed ol this letter.
I’m glad that I came over here.
Tell mother I’ll not quite forget her—
(I don’t think there’s very much fear) —
And that, though I’m sometimes downhearted,
It’s not that I’m wanting in pluck —
I’ll stop, for the tears have Just started;
So, God bless you all! and Good Luck!
France’s watchword to-day is “a Pekin.”
And a (s)Pekin of this reminds us that the cry was
once “a Berlin.” But Moosoo hasn’t yet arrived.
He Metz so many dilliculties on ze road.
Carlyle once said “ the best thing to teach
young: men is to learn to wait.” There’s a regular
heap of Carlyle’s admirers keeping up our street-
corner posts every evening from 7 o’clock till the
curfew’s knell tolls the hour for putting up the
bar-shutters. ■*
Notice to Male Young Men only. Next
year will he Leap Year. Therefore, keep away
from lawn tennis, Sunday schools, and down-the-
harbour picnics. Or else the girls with the warts
on their noses and an income of nothing a year
will be dead sure to scoop you.
Here’s a strange coincidence. During the
election contest for the North-Eastern Province
(Vic ), Look-into-thy-heart-young-raan-and-weep
Smith polled all the votes recorded at two places:
and the names of those places were “ Boosey ” and
“ Yabba Yabba.” “Sweets to the sweet,” &c.
Keening a coffee-stall appears to be a
better biz than even floating a sweep or preaching
the celestial Joys of that Jasper-sardonyx-omerald-
ruby-rallk-and water-street place called Heaven.
Anyway, a Melbourne coffce-churner recently
swore he had an income of £1000 a year. And he
proved it too. Bu t then he always rose at 3 a.m.,
and the early bird, &c.
Trotting round the Block on Monday last,
■we were pleased to find that the male portion of
our community does not hold a monopoly of what
the Ancient Egyptians used to call damphoolish-
ness Nearly every girl we met had her borrowed
hair squashed over her half inch brow in a lunatic
“fringe,” which, according to that giddy girl,
Gipsv, Is cal led the Skye Terrier fashion. No name
could be more appropriate: that is. if the idea is to
attract puppies. Which it does. This will be gall
to Bank clerks and Civil servants.
At Herberton (N.Q.), the other day, a
white man rode into the blacks’ camp, burnt all
their blankets, put one of the gins on the Are, too,
and beat the rest of the tribe with a nullah-nullah.
He then took away two piccaninnies, and, bran-
dishing two revolvers in the township, sent a
bullet through a miner’s shirt, “ which missile,
fortunately, only lodged in the arm ot a black
boy ” Subsequently, he explained that he had
been a little annoyed at having lost a tin dish and
a tomahawk, which he suspected the blacks ot
stealing Having, however, been reminded that
ho had lent those articles to a friend, he expressed
tils willingness to think no more ai>out the matter.
The local paper considers “that the oolice ought
to make him replace the blankets.” [!!!]
Suakes! We should think so. Tbecountry
papers absolutely wriggle with them. Gundag .vi
BaiTjEY seems to have an especial dread ot them.
He warns his readers in grisly paragraphs, which
are almost as bad to toad as to get snakebite and
have done with it, that the fangs of the serpent
are unsheathed and the death-adder is out on the
war-trail. There is no immunity from them any-
where, according to Bailey. They are not only
in the grass and the bushes, but under the beds
and in the eignt-day clocks. They are found in
the soup, and tiio hash is no stianger to them.
We are not so surprised at this, having lived in
country corn-beef chateaux ourselves lor a bnet
but fearful period. They are also at home in
boots, but there is i otbing wonderful in this,
still if all that Bailey says be truc-and who
would doubt him V-the only way to get through
the country for the next tew months will be to
scramble along the telegraph-wires.
The Gundagai Elworthy is steeped in
grief. It was always melancholy. Now it is
miserable. And all about the death of two dilapi-
dated dogs. Listen: “ Within the past few days,
two old favourites in this town have died, and,
although the subjeds of our remarks are only
do“s yet their well-known faithfulness,” and so
on? You would think, by the commencement ot
the foregoing sentence, that the Mayor and Police
Magistrate, or, at least, the bellman and pound-
keeper, had gone from Gundagai to glory. And
rou would naturally b > disappointed if they had
■ nn f This extravagance ot* sorrow on tue part ot
Elworthy is ve.y curious. It is shrewdly sus-
pected in the town that the departed dogs used, it
not to write the leaders, at any rate to advise him
as to the attitude he should assume towards
France in the coming crisis, and the position he
should take up with regard to the postmans appli-
cation for a seat in his pants at the cost ol 'be
municipality. But couutry towns are full ot sus-
picions.
There is at least one class of men that are
immortal. They are insurance-agents. One of
these gentlemen went into the Murray near
Alhurv! a week or so ago, to bathe. While he
was swimming helractured hiscollar-bone-whtch
he had broken on a previous occasion. He went
down twice. Then, swimming with one arm, i.e
reached the further bank. But he had to go back
for his clothes. So into the river he went again.
We forget how many arms he broke, and how
many tunes be went down on this trip, but, any-
“ he managed to reach a snag in the middle of
the stream. ’fhere he stubk for several days, or
hours recollect which just now. While
here he broke two or three of his knees, and took
the cramps in his ears. This was the final settler.
He had been able to keep above water so long by
using his ears as floats. Just as he was breaking
his last collar-bone, somebody waded in and
rescued him. The river never ran that could
drown an insurance agent.
This is something spicy in the way of in-
cipient Mormonism. He is a New Zealand man,
and for the sake of shortness we’ll call him Jones.
Twelve months ago, he married a Dunedin girl
called Brown, and they have lived happily ever
since—except, of course, on lodge nights, or when
there was an undesirable display of weakness
about the breakfast gravy. But, a few days ago,
another interesting young lady called hmith
hauled the uxurious Mr. Jones up for mainten-
ance, she being, as she declared, his lawful wire.
Jones, however, was equal to the occasion. He
proved that at the time he married Smith ho was
also married to a lady by the name of Robinson.
The marriage lines were produced, and, of course,
Miss Smith's claim was squelched, as her marriage
was illegal. And then a heavenly smile-like unto
the noon-day sun shining on a new-made grave
broke across the 6 x 14 face of policeman X 999, as
ho arrested Mr. Jones for self-admitted bigamy.
But gloom settled thick on that officer s brow,
when Jones explained that his first wite Robinson,
was dead, and the Smith girl’s marriage being
illegal, there was positively no case against the
prisoner. Won’t Osman Day smile a few when he
glances over that ot ?
The only weak point in this yarn is that it
happens to be strictly true. A nigger up Bourke
way has been doing a roaring trade ot late, in tne
way of blood-money raised on the scalps or de-
ceased rabbits. But a certain inspector, calling
round, discovered tha: the guileless savage had 14
pairs of the long-eared fraternity securely kept
near his gunyah for breeding purposes, and the
otfspring of these enabled him to keep his tamny
in tobacco, rum, and all the other necessaries ot
life peculiar to the Bourke district. Which re-
minds us that what the rabbit is to Australia, the
a ligator is to a place called Burmah, Now, in
Burmah a sum equal to 10s. is paid tor every alli-
gator handed in to the State authorities. Not long
ago an unsophisticated native came to the Burmau
magistrate with 15 alligator eggs, and innocently
asked for his little 150s. But the magistrate ex-
plained that he had no authority to pay for eggs;
and so the poor hawker thanked his Worship, and
withdrew. A week af erwards he appeared on
the scene once more, bearing with him lo lively
little alligators. And the latest advices from
Burmah say that that nigger has bought a 1 ankoo
egg-hatching machine, and is rapidly reducing the
State to a state of beggary.
We take this picturesque fable from a
Victorian country paper:— •; At a meeting of the
Richmond Borough Council, in Victoria, an alder-
man chased a reporter with a bottle of whisky
under his arm.” The alderman, we suppose, was
chasing the reporter in order to get him to take a
drink. You have to use violence to a journalist
over there to make him take anything stronger
than cat's milk. Here, when a pressman joins a
daily paper, he has an iron stock fixed around his
nook, like the rings Chinese fishermen fasten
around the necks of cormorants to prevent them
from swallowing fish. This is to keep him irom
drinking more than a tankful of rum at a time.
The editor keeps the key. Previous to the use ot
this contrivance, if yon went into a bar where
there were journalists drinking, you could hear
the rum roaring down their throats like a liver
roaring down a rocky gorge. Now the sound is
only a gentle gurgle, like that of a gutter after
rain It strikes us, however, that the Richmond
reporter, and not the alderman, might have had
the bottle. If so, the former was no doubt carry-
ing off the bottle to prevent the alderman from
plunging into excess. It must have been this. No
reporter who was not a rabid teetotaller would be
sober enough to run after attending a Borough
Council.
THEIR STYLE.
This is how the Lybb people write who are to
murders sent —
Last night the town was startled by a liombls
Its tragt nature’s thrown near every citizen you
which e’er long will mount to
fever heat. ,, ., ,
The details are most terrible— a blot upon our
In short,' an epidemic seems to reign to-day of
The parties were both youthful, and, it seems,
were hand and glove, .
An intimacy they had formed which ripened into
With temper diabolical, which nothing could
He fired!'and a bullet is embedded in the skull.
Locked up, his feelings seamed to be of a most
poignant kind, . , ,, , . . ,
His laboured breathing tolling of the sad state of
his mind.
A very little more, indeed, of this descriptive rot,
And then a weeping mothah can “ bring our little
cot.”
About midnight, iu the hall of Parliament
House, where, amid first'dass upholstering and
time-payment tailoring, Victorians spread them-
selves out to do the right thing by Australasian
statesmanship, Mr. Service rose and proposed the
toast of "The Press.” It was a trying hour. It
was a Which-ing hour. Which of the great men
present would scratch his head and blend his
literary person with the historical plctuie i The
Queen was drunk, the Prince and Princess ot
Wales were drunk, the Governor was drunk, the
whole Defence Force was drunk, and even old
Colonel Hutton was drunk, and now the
Premier proposed that the Press, too, should be
drunk. It is a very general impression that the
Press is bibulous, and in season and out of season
is a slave to wets; but, if this banquet goes down
to history, the Prcs5 will occupy a solitary shining
piace as being the only material body in the com-
munity that wasn’t drunk before midnight. Some
old student may start a distinction here. He will
discriminate between being simply drunk and
being officially recognised as drunk. And he will
sav that all the Premier wanted was to have the
latter tact on the records. The former goes with-
out recording. We can’t debate this. We could
have done it, if the Which-ing had not resulted in
Mr. David Blair being put up to respond. But,
with Haddouand Watterstonand Winter and Syme
!• 11 there, that David Blair should have had to do
the scratching is explicable only on the hypothesis
of "prior engagements” at the side-table.
Another insult! The S. F. Newsletter
says-—” We lur always maintained that Austra-
lians' got theirsMrts washed, and sometimes took
baths; and we are ready at any time to defend
them against the vile insinuation that they wear
red shirts continuously for a year and a half, and
only perform tneir ablutions at Christmas These
ualV slanders ought to be put down; and, further,
we are ready to swear to an affidavit that we saw
an Australian come out of a barber’s shop this
week with a clean chin and his clothes brushed.
It is true that his boots weren’t blackened, but
then Rome wasn’t built in a day.” We have never
maintained that the San Francisco people cither
had their clothes brushed or were occasionally
barbered, but we shouldn’t be much surprised to
hear it. What we will allow, though, is that
Americans arc notorious for the luggage they
take with them when steam-travelling. I he ex-
tent of the wardrobe of the General on board the
Screw will be familiar to all students of Dickens,
but now our beloved cousins have reduced lug-
gage to a still greater science. We once knew a
U S. Colonel who travelled half over the world,
and yet all the luggage he had was a;hand-bag
containing two pairs of socks and some shoe-
polish .which he used ft paint on with anything
that came handy. Hit tbirt and collar were ol
paoer, and when he fell like a change, he used to
borrow the carpenter's plane and take ofi a layer.
He had a leather tie, and all the buttons on his
fibre suit were of timber. What tnlles wouldn t
go into his hag, he crammed in his hat, which was
built on the telescopic principle, and was adapted
for cooking in. He is dead.
Joy ! A London society paper says that
the Queen has thrown off same of the gloom
which has surrounded her since the death or John
Brown. Now that there is a monument over him,
and an elegiac ode on the loom of the laureate,
not to say a picture on the easel of a great painter
commemorative of him, we should think Her
Majesty might occasionally venture to smile
again. When we have suggested another way ot
immortalising the departed flunkey (of whom we
desire to speak with respect, and even reverence),
we humbly hope Her Majesty will be nearly, it
not almost, cheerful, and able to resume her regal
duties of Bible and blanket distribution. What
we propose is this-that an Order of Merit be
established in memory of the glorious dead, to be
entitled “The Most Noble Order of John Brown s
Brogues.” The Order of the Garter might be
made a kind of noviciate to this higher order. We
ask nothing for this suggestion—not even a baro-
netcy. We make It out of pure loyalty of heart.
Or. if we should think of asking anything, it
would only be permission to nominate a few
colonial candidates for admission into the Order.
Her Majesty could rely upon our nominating tit
and proper persons only, as we should select them
exclusively from the ranks of ourC M.G. s. ihe
arms of the Order, we mi£ht further suggest,
should be a boot sable with a tongue rouge and
the motto, “ Lick spittle and live long. If this
idea of ours be approved of, we hope—now we are
asking for something, like everybody else—that
the Colonial Secretary will manage to procure and
send us out some relic of the late Brown. One of
the buttons off his coat will satisfy us. We shall
wear it around our neck till we die.
Some people are easily surprised. The
Rev Dean O'Keefe, of Yass, seems to be one of
these. Says the local paper“ He (the Dean) was
surprised one evening during the week to nna a
number of young m ;n cutting down his crop of
hav. growing on the spare land around St. Augus-
tine’s Church.” Also-“That such a generous
feeling should have inspired the harvesters must
be a matter of satisfaction to the Dean. We
should think so. We remember a similar case.
Some young men turned out one evening to split
the priest’s wood. His reverence was surprised,
and watched them with tears of gratitude in his
eyes, and gave them his blessing. He was sur-
prised a good deal more later on, when he looked
out and saw no young men, and no wood, ims
time his blessing was elaborate and ornamental.
Then there was Father Tom Barrett, once of
Stawell. The Stawell Fire Brigade thought they
saw his chimney on fire one night, and dashed up
with the engine to put the fire out. They played
upon the chimney for a while, till there was no
sign ot smoke left. In the excitement of the
moment, however, they brought the engine
through his reverence’s garden fence. Later, the
best spokesman of the brigade—a young man who
was considered eloquent even by the local debating
, society-went to the priest’s house, ostensibly to
apologise for the broken fence, but in reality to
receive his reverence’s thanks for the zeal dis-
played by the brigade, “ I come,” said the young
orator, “ to tender to your reverence, on behalf
of the Fire Brigade ” “Damn the Fire Bri-
gade!” said his reverence. Probably the fire
brigade was, or will be, damned, it was the
young man, and not the priest, that was surprised
this time.
Lieutenant Muritz, of the Sandhurst
flying-column ef the “ Harmy,” interviewed
Buphemia Chambers, at the Bendigo Hospital,
and obtained some really valuable information.
Buphemia is a cataleptic, and has commenced
business in the trance line. She had a big faint at
the Salvationists’ meeting, and was carried to the
Hospital. There was a race between the reporters
of the rival papers te get her experiences, but the
Advertiser man won by a neck. Shortly after
she became insensible she saw a “ beautiful bright
light, and as I was lying down an angel appeared
to me.” The surgeons think that the hallucina-
tion was caused by the first person approaching
her, who happened to be a Corporation bummer
with a dip-candle. She saw a dark tunnel about a
quarter of a mile through a dark pit until white
fire and showers of fire like hail.’ ihe bulk of
the people appeared to be in this pit, and kicking
up a Gehenna of a row. She distinctly recognised a
number of newspaper men there, and a fair
sprinkling of priests. On the other side we re
a number of people, who were much less
demonstrative, and engaged in more rational
enjoyments. They were wearing “crowns and
harps, with the Saviour in the midst, robed in a
beautiful dress resembling a surplice. It will thus
be seen that the harp still retains its pre-eminence
in heaven in spite of the efforts made, from time
to time, to introduce diversity in the shape of
aocordeons, cymbals, bones, and tambourines.
From the “lock-stitch” she observed in the gar-
ments of the elect, it is clear that sewing machines
have been already introduced. The choice was
given her of going into the pit where the howling
was, or stepping across the brook and collaring a
harp. There appeared to be too much coarse
horse-play for her in the former place, so she
skipped over the pond, and a little fat cherub
handed her to a seat, gave her a pint of nectar,
and asked her to strike up a ditty. She said, in
her innocence, that singing wasn’t much in her
line, but if they wanted a clog hornpipe she could
• shake a leg.” She had scarcely got through the
first step when the cloud she was dancing on
slipped over a rainbow, and she remembers no
more. Altogether, the experiences of this poor
girl are quite as circumstantial and far more pro-
bable that those we ever heard at any of the hun-
dred “ seances ” we have attended in eur time.
Having, with a persistence which is pecu-
liar to us, sirenuously supported the Salvation
Harmy since its arrival here, it is a singular source
of satisfaction to us to be able to chronicle the fact
that the Salvationists arc, financially speaking, a
success. We have it on the authority of that
sweet warbler, Capt. Reynolds, that the collections
alone average, at the P. Hall, over £3o on Sunday;
and it is also stated that the profit on the hallelujah
bonnets is by itself sufficient to keep the whole
brigade in pie and pomatum articles which ic
largely indulges in. It seems, however, that a
great many districts are peopled with scoffers:
Paddington. Newtown (where Lieut. Scotch Bob [IJ
is the shining light); and from Raymond Terrace,
Capt. Happv Day (sic.) sends but an indifferent
report. Tilings are a bit better ( the Lord bo
praised’ - ) at Newcastle. Writes Capt. Briggs ;
" The Glory Shop crowded. Thursday. Good mus-
ter. Protestant Hall well filled. One mother sa ved.
Saving the mothers means converting families
[Does it V-Ed. IJ.] At our holiness meeting on
Friday G-od was with us; twenty out for the bless-
ing of a clean heart, and one for salvation. Before
he knelt down he handed me his bottle of
rum. God bless him I ” The noble Captain is yery
pat on this point. He seems quite certain It
was rum. Hem! In Sydney, affairs seem even
brighter than this. At “a real Hallelujah free
and Easy ” many testified, he joyfully says ; and
then gives the converts’ statements seriatim. The
first one of these assertions will settle all doubts
(if any ever existed) in the minds of our readers
as to the Cap.’s powers of conversion :—No. 1. 1
am thirteen weeks old [! ! !] to-morrow. It has
been the happiest titoe I have ever spent, and 1
mean to live and die lor the Lord. Shortly niter
this “ Happy Tom,” the" Hallelujah Bnckmaker
(!) came in, when they held a “ tell-everyone
meeting. Earls of the city, though, the Harmy
has still to conquer ; for we read that if you visit,
during one of the meetings, the Australian Hall
(wherever that is !), “you may find some engaged
in a quiet smoke, or twe females will have a set-
to,’or at night you may be left in the dark. ihe
Harmy appears to have two great friends in the
“upper suckles” :—one, that distinguished and
disinterested vessel, W. J. Foster, and the other,
that coruscating ornament to a brilliant bencm,
D.C. Judge Wilkinson. The former gave the
Harmy two guineas, and the latter gave a mis-
creant who disturbed them at their devotions six
mouths. A few more friends like this, and there
will hardly be an officer here soon who does not
possess either a pea-nut cart or a pie-stand.
Mr. M’Elhone has, at last, entirely for-
feit’d our respect. When he attacks brether
members, Civil servants who are powerless to
defend themselves, or gives the dead a turn, if we
1 do not frantically admire him, at least he enter-
tains us. But now, the mere mention of the hon.
member’s name conjures upfeehngs of nothing if
our hearts. On the press, here, we are nothing u
not clannish. Imagine, then, our e .^?f 8 p ran ) {
he openly states, in the House, that Alfred, *
and Chris. have “ not as much brains f amongst them
as a half-erewn goose.” This is a )r £er,
petrated in malice or in ignorance. It the former,
the deepest dungeon ’neath the ca ?H en^ at eet
be his lot; if the latter, penance with a white sheet
and a candle (Mac would look funny doing the
Jane Shore business with a white sheet and a
candle I) Can, we ask, the hon. m .®° lbe L b ? v Frank
Alfred’s poems, seen the art
greases the machinery, and beheld Chris.
fog wonders at cricket, with a
lemonade bottle in the good pldtimes? bet
him probe the depths of Alfred s soul, aim
extract therefrom a picnic par. which tells of how
they “danced the light fantastic toe uponi the
sword.” Has he ever put an arithmetical P/oblem
to Frank? He was the boy to tell you all about
the nails in the horse’s shoes, and how many blue
beans made five. And Chris. Has, wedemand,
the hon. gentleman ever seen the soul that Ohns-
topher puts into his attitude wh ® n ., h ® b as his
photo taken? No brains I But we shall hearraore
of this. And then the staff. How dare I he senior
member for the Upper Hunter talk ab ®uf’
half-starved reporters whom they paid a pound or
25s. a week to ? Me must be mistaking these gen-
tlemen for the reporters of another paper. Why,
the crowd attached to our evening contemporary
form a glittering galaxy. Metaphorically, they:go
about in purple and fine linen, and feast sump-
tuously every day. When you see a Party 1 *?
block with a soup-plate tile, yellow kids aewn.
with black, lavender pants, and patent boots,
you know at once 1 ,that is a News man
for if Alfred suffers severely from anything
it is from an Arabian-Night generosity to those
that serve and adore him. W hen, however, j ou
observe an individual in a giant’s coat, a dwart 8
pants, and a vest fastened a P* 11 an <i a button
alternately, who is leaning against a dead wall, and
eating a saveloy lunch out of his hat, while he
gazes down woefully at his shoes, you will know
he belongs to this journal. Should, however, any
doubt arise In your minds on this occasion, wait
till you see a party of sinister aspect eating bread
and a raw onion in a York-street pub. and wash-
ing down these luscious viands with the contents
of a pewter; you may be sure then that you have
spotted our man who writes about ttie fleecy fleet-
ing cloudlets and the rose-scent floating on the
airy zephyrs. But the News people—poor, half-
half-s . Ha, ha I But, no matter,
A Public school teacher sends us a leaf
out of his experiences, and, if the remaining few
thousand leaves are of the same character, give
us chewing bread-crumbs for toothless paupers,
or superintending the recreations of valetudina-
rian bruisers, before taking to teaching in N.8.W.
One publican’s family led him such a dance that, at
last, life became for him as unattractive as tor
Smike a week before he left his P.P.O. card on the
gentle Squeera. The boys of the family are
“ cautions.” Daily they presented abusive notes
from their parents—notes purposely left open, so
that the kids could while away the time while
crawling to school by mastering the details. When
one of them was requested, as politely as the cir-
cumstances would allow, to put out his hand for a
“ tap,” he remarked, “ My oath, dad ’ll put a head
on you.” “ Dad ” did not “ put a head on the
pedagogue, but he threatened to make a radical
alteration in the shape of the one he already
possessed, and for that purpose waited for him
with a supple sapling. While the ol’ man was
loafing round with his sapling, waiting to wish
the schoolmaster the compliments of the season,
the ol’ woman and her outraged darlings were
squatting on the fence, anxious to see the sport,
and ready to give a hand in case of a hitch. But
“ Dad,” having come of a family that—like many
more we know, who turn up their noses at us now
—had a wholesome terror or the law (the result of
too close an acquaintance with its talons in the
early days), contented himself with twirling the
bludgeon harmlessly round the teacher’s head,
while the party on the fence screeched out their
determination to “ see his liver.” On applying to
the “ department” for instructions how to proceed,
the teacner received the friendly advice “ knock
him down.” He didn’t knock him down, but took
him up, and had him bound for three months to
respect the eyes and nose of his children s
instructor, and practise on a dummy or a sand-bag
if he found his destructive tendencies getting the
better of him. This tallies exactly with our own
experience. We once superintended tho studies
ot an A B C class in N.S. W, It was at a time when
we had a list like a leg of mutton and biceps like a
prize stallion’s hind leg. One day a foreigner came
into the academy with an axe, and wanted to
know “Av we didn’t taych religion in that
bloomin’ school ?” Not liking our appearance, he
backed towards ihedoor, and used the handle of
the axe on his wife, who was outside waiting to
see “Mick sweep the flure with the taycher.”
Until the Chinese method of dealing with parents
is introduced into N.S. Wales, the rising generation
will always supply food for the gallows and the
triangles. Among the Celestials when a boy talks
of “putting a head” on his teacher, the authorities
call on his.parents, remove the old man s ears and
a portion of his scalp, and give the old lady a sound
bambooing, just to impress on them that there is
no place like home for teaching boys manners.
When Monoure Conway was here, shedding
tho light of his meteoric mind on our darkness, he
said several wise things, which will never bo
forgotten—principally because Carlyle and others
had said them before. But one piece of original
news he gave us. It was that in Cincinnati “ he
saw the only beautiful cemetery he ever did see in
this world. It was one vast park, with no visible
indications of separation. Statesmen, governors,
missionaries, and the obscure and the poor lay
buried there, without any sign Of inferiority or
distinction in this beautiful garden of the earth.”
Alter all, the grave is the only real republic ? This
is the first thought .that strikes you. But it is
shallow, poor dears. Go out to our cemetery at
Waverley one day, and see for yourselves. Kich
and poor are here at least equal, you will say. Are
they ? Look at that mausoleum ovtr there with
the gilded railings round it. Go nearer. Bead the
inscription in gilt letters on the white marble
monument. It says that So-and-so was born in
such-and-such a year, and died on a certain day
and date in a certain year. That in life he was
respected, and in death regretted. Very good.
Now, there is no person living on earth who cares
a handful of dust where he was born or died, or
what he did, except his heirs. And his heirs are
only interested in the fact that he is dead. Thai
man, let us tell you, was when alive a little fat
fool, with the intellect of an oyster and the heart
of a cur. He went through this world, which God
has seen good to make wretched for so many,
with eyes calmly closed to the misery that saddened
tho daylight. What did he care ? He was making
money. And he died, and a monument was raised
over the dirt that was left of him. Very
well. Look here; stop, you are treading on it:—
this grave with the rank grass on it growing over
the little rotting wooden cross, is the last resting-
place of one whose hand and heart were open to
all sorrows, though he walked in the Shadow of
Sorrow himself He was a good fellow—helpful
and hopeful. He had done more good in his
humble way than a hundred such as that under
the monument. But he was poor. Andso, butfor
the poor little cross, his grave might be, for all you
would know, a mole-hill or an ant-heap. Let us
have no more of equality in the grave. Even in
your Cineinnatti cemetery, where there are no
visible distinctions made, there is no equality, Mr.
Conway. The remains of your rich men, you*
statesmen and governors, are buried in coffin with*
in collin, cedaru and leaden, proof against th®
worms to the day of judgment, while the remains
of your poor men are planted in pine boxes, tho
lids of which are split open by the first oiod that
falls from the sexton s shovel. If we had any of
tho Egyptian ambition i*r an Imposing tomb, w®
should open a burglary business on a large and
successful scale, and when we died leave our
money to the church. But we have not. If ever
•we do die we shall bo characteristic. We shall
leave our bones to a minstrel show, and they can
make clappers for the corner-man out of them*
[ Equality in the gravel Bah!


RUM
Prepared according to the directions Oi Prof.
E. N. Hereford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED FOR
DYSPEPSIA. HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
MPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA, WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY, &C.
No Danger can Attend its Use.
Nervous Depression from Overwork.
Sluggish Circulation and Growing Chil-
dren.
Sandusky, O., May 21,1880,
I have used your Acid Phosphate and can pro-
nounce it a very valuable addition. I find it use-
ful and beneficial in nervous dyspepsia, nervous
depression following’overwork and anxiety, as well
as the gastric derangements. Where there M
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation, a dull,
heavy head, it is of undoubted value. Fast grow-
ing children require this valuable addition.
K W. R. PAGE, M.D.
lilver and Kidney Derangements.
Boston, Mass., May 18,1880.
In regard to the Hereford’s Acid Phosphate, I
have used it very extensively, and with the most
remarkable success.
I give it in dyspepsia and in all cases where there
is derangement or the liver and kidneys. With
my patients it has agreed
Nerve Tonic.
A. S. Carpenter. M,D., Keene, N.H., says :
“ Hereford's Acid Phosphate is a valuable medi-
cine. I have taken it myself, and for several
years prescribed it for my patients, when sutferingr
from indigestion or innervation of* the digestive
organs, ana always with satisfactory results. It is
a good nerve tonic, and in some cases of morbid
urine, 4 it acts like a charm,’ producing the desired
result. It is pleasant to the taste, acceptable to the
stomach, and is, in my opinion, an excellent and
valuable compound.”
Can lie borne toy the most Sensitive
Stomachs.
Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 1880,
Hereford’s Acid Phosphate, In elegance of com-
position, stands unrivalled. It is pleasant to the
taste, and can be borne by the most sensitive
stomach. Have prescribed it with marked benefit
in indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms an
excellent substitute for Lemon juice, and as such
will furnish a refreshing drink for the sick.
A. L. HALL, M.D.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
nvEag'lc Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
44 It Works like a Charm."
It is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches fire. It cure!
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Braises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Borns, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an Internal remedy it tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Throat, and Uyp.
theria,
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use in
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers in
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported into this country, and have
gained throughou ifcke colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the iron-work consists of the very best
steel and NorVay iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. 1
leather, and the upholstery ia unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their finish
BECAUSE they are each and all built under special
instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage builders in America,
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say they are the
best.
American Carriage Emporium,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
BAABON JdOiHAM & CO.,
fccio Aser 4
A railway official at one of the English
towns picked up two endorsed cheques ot the
value of £57—so he sought out the owner and re-
turned them tp him; and the owner, pleased with
the man’s honesty, stood him a glass of beer.
After all, it would have been better bia. for the
porter to have discovered a stray threepenny bit,
and said no more about it.
“ Buchu-paiba.” Quick complete cure,
ail annoying Kidney, BladderandUriuary Diseases.
Druggists. Moses, Moss & Co., General Agents.
Political Points
Jimmy Service says that when he arrived
In Sydney the people were dead in the matter of
annexation and federation. Exactly. We were in
Melbourne the other day, and when we arrived
the people were dying for federation. &o.
Thus spoke Hangus Cameron—“New
South Wales is as far above Victoria as the
heavens are above the urth, havin’ gratar re-
sources, and far more paytriotic public men.”
Pay-triotic is good ; in fact, it is very excellent
good; and that’s the reason Hangus sold bis car-
penter’s kit and took to politics.
Read in. Reid out. Thursday, Deo. 13.
Second rending of the Land Bill —ayes 78, nose 16.
G. H. Reid’s and F. B. Suttor’s right to sit and vote
in the Assembly questioned by A. G. Taylor, on
the ground that their respective acceptances of
the office of Minister of Public Instruction (an
office of profit under the Crown) had never been
duly gazetted, as required by the Constitution
Act.
The only Mac—the knock-’em-out-in-
three rounds of our Assembly- declared he would
like to be Governor, if only for a day or so, that ho
could grab up all the Land. But the idea is not
original. Many years ago, a patriot was appointed
Acting-Governor—for twenty-four hours, and six-
teen of these were devoted te land-grabbing for
his own private interests. He had a level head,
and therefore didn’t waste his money on cocks and
hens. Bathurst papers, please copy.
A correspondent, who asks “Where is
Taylor ? ” writes us stating that a certain Sydney
M.L.A., who was, not long ago, so fortunate as to
have given to him certain material from the
foundation of the late lamented Garden Palace
(which material he has used to great advantage in
fitting up and reclaiming a large piece of property
on Johnson’s Bay) has had employed, for some
considerable time, the Government dredge, which
machine is now engaged in dredging the front of
the property he has had filled in.
The Wagga Advertiser remarks“ The
proposal of a Federal Council only awaits the
assent of various colonial Parliaments and the
Imperial authorities to bring about the establish-
ment of an Intercolonial House of Legislation
before many months.” Just so I And the Wagga
Advertiser only wants a larger circulation and a
sufficient supply of monster melons and three-
headed cats for the editor to write about when he
has exhausted European politics, to be a pros-
perous and influential journal. Just so!
How is this for consistency? The S.M.
Herald, in one and the same issue, called atten-
tion to the grave importance at the present
juncture of the Speaker's ruling to the effect that
the Convention or Conference, or whichever it
may be called, could only be considered as an in-
formal meeting of private citizens ; and ye ;
animadverted upon the Parliamentary waste o
time on the motion for adjournment made by
Buchanan, and on which that weathercock politi-
cian delivered (as he sometimes does when in the
vein) a really statesmanlike speech, leading up in
this case to the above-mentioned important ruling.
RUM.
“The following petitions wore presentee
to the House last night in favour of the extension
of the principle of local option to the renewal of
licensesBy Mr. Copeland, from the Prince
Edward of Wales Lodge, No. 391,1.O.G.T.,” &c.—
Rum.
That’s well! bold Henry, passing well
To strive against the sale of gin
It’s so long since we cannot teli
Exactly now who put you in.
But let it pass ; for Henry, dear,
If any one should chance to shout
The party’s name in your pink ear
That put you in, ’twouid put you out.
Thus spoke the “ jaynil ” Dan, at Earl
Rosebery’s free feed the other night: “ Oi hope th’
day is not far distant when this noble Air! will
occkepy th’ phroud perzishln av Secretary of
Sthate for the Colonies, or succeed th’ dishtin-
fulshed mahn who is now Governor of New
outh Wales.” Dishtinguished for what, Dan’17
Eggs are still eighteen pence a dozen, and on
Fridays the good Catholics poke them up a penny
higher. And do you remember what poor old
Chaucer once said: “When ye M.L.A. does come
out and saye he has no desire to holde a portfolio,
he remindeth me much of that other man who
once pinned a Blue Ribbon temperance badge on
his coat so that some one would ask him to liquor
up, under the mistakyne impression that he would
refuse.” Remember Chaucer’s chat, and put it on
with a trowel, Dan’l.
• • 9
Old Warren Holt has resigned his M.L.C.-
ship.
• * •
Jules Ferry, French Minister for Foreign
Affairs, announces that the colonial policy of his
Government is one of conservation. Tseng pos-
sibly thinks that French conservation policy up
Tonquin way requires correcting on the lines of
“ they should keep who can."
A Christimas Carol.
’Tls Christmas, the season of gladness.
When men with their neighbours should vie
In soothing some sickness or sadness,
In robbing some soul of a sigh;
When the cynic should seek to discover
Some subject not worthy a sneer.
And learn to speak well of his brother
For one day, at least, in the year.
When each bashful youth to his maiden—
With the holly-branch bending above—
Should let his young breast be unladen
Of all the sweet load of its love;
When every old wrong should be righted.
And all things run smoothly again,
And hopes, which misfortune has blighted.
Be renewed in a glass of champagne.
AVhen hearts which, perchance, have been aching
Through some foolish action or word.
Should join in a joyous peace-making—
By Christmas good-fellowship stirred.
When friends should forget their estrangements,
And foes bid farewell to their feud;
And all of us make our arrangements
To get most confoundedly screwed.
On Principle.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Upon a cliff, of dizzy height,
There stood eut in the pal® moonlight
A pair.
He was of bold and haughty mien,
The lady byhls side, we ween,
Was fair.
Ho sudden raised his TOlee on high.
And then a loud and piercing cry
Went floating upwards to the sky;
And foj
That form with the bright golden looks
Fell crashing down upon the rooks
Below.
Then turned he slowly on his heel.
Without a sigh,
And said—“ You don’t put lemon-pool
In apple-pie.”
A publican has changed the title of his
hotel to The Rosebery Arms. This is the culmi-
nating compliment—the last spoonful, we take it,
of Rosebery jam.
Hot on John. Precious, Doust, and Oo.,
of Sydney, announce :—“ From this date our
books will be closed against all Chinese, except
for cash.” That’s one for you, John. No savee ?
Ah I Well, you’ll get no more of their precious
dust.
“ Major Sutherland,” of the Salvation
Army, advertises “ good army-violins, cheap.”
These instruments the Major guarantees, we
suppose, to be of seasoned timber. We have seen
and heard some of these instruments, and have
since bribed several people with copies of the
Express to put rat poison In his—well, cocoa. But
he still lives. So the only conclusion we ean come
to in the matter is that rat poison agrees with him.
A Mr. Groom, of Melbourne, has conceived
the idea of diminishing larrikinism by establishing
gymnasia in which street boys could get rid of
their exuberant playfulness. In London, however,
a Mr. Mackonoehie has started even a more novel
plan. He has built a splendid dancing-hall in one
of the lowest slums of the Docks. The dancers
are all subject to rigid rules of behaviour, and old
persons are provided with seats to look on, and
smoking rooms contiguous.
In Equity: re Challis’ will —Supreme Court
not prepared to introduce an innovation by enun-
ciating the dictum that a “ bars trustee ” is entitled
to remuneration. We would have staked our last
shekel on the Supreme Court holding that opinion.
’Tis only when the trustee’s nakedness is clothed
with abounding wealth—and only then—that he’s
entitled to remuneration, on the legal principle
that to him to whom much has been given more
ought “in equity” to flow.
The new Bishop of Adelaide (Sandford,
D.D.) advocates a protest of •* the Church” against
the atrocious political action on the part of the
French Government in proposing to land reci-
divlstes on the islands of the South Pacific. We
are with the Bishop so far as the question of land-
ing objectionable characters in primitive Poly-
nesia is concerned; and from our standpoint beg
to propose to France and England the following
modus vivendd: France to engage not to let loose
the rsvideviste; Great Britain to make a similar
promise with regard to the missionary.
A young laiy possessed of that hete noir,
i a jealous husband, was recently presented with a
handsome bracelet by a eher ami. How to keep it
she knew not, till she hit on this deviceShe flew
to her confessor, handed over the jewel, explained
the circumstances, adding. “To-morrow is my
birthday. My husband will deny m* no fancy.
Show him the bracelet, and ask £80 ” Next
morning the glittering handcuff was clasped round
the lady’s pretty wrist, and in the afternoon were
£50 stowed in her bureau,, £30 going as coram ission
to the reverend keeper of her conscience.
They do things better in Vic toria. Perhaps
you have heard that sad, sad song before. And the
first paper in Melbourne says: “Many of our pub-
licans are simply poisoners, many of our hotels are
merely brothels, our asylums are filled with luna-
tics, our streets are ruled by larrikins, and there
are no less than 3000 prostitutes well known to be
such by our police who ply their hellish trade
with Impunity.” Why “well known”? Mel-
bourne is a grand city; but if these things are not
improved, we religious people over here will have
to pray for another shower of fire and brimstone.
That religious Chinese had a level head when he
insinuated that the Fitzroy heathens wanted
missionaries worse than any of the South Sea
Islanders.
An English paper calls Lady Dufferin
“ a receiver of stolen goods” because she received
the Chefkat Order from the Sultan. We wouldn't
say anything so rude as that of a lady—even if she
sold the Shroud; but we think a lot about Lord
Dufferin giving assurances to His Majesty of the
sympathy and friendship entertained by England
towards Turkey. And that reminds us of a
capital maxim for use in this glorious country.
When you think a lot about anything—write
nothing. Lord Dufferin couldn’t have been
winking when he said this, because he has only
got one eye. And if he winked with the optic
remaining, he would be pretty sure to stumble
forward and butt the Sublime Porte in his little
turn.
There is good news from Ballarat. In
spite of mal-de-mer and an accident to his pastoral
crook—Biily Ducks twisted the head of it snaring
a demonstrative ram—Bishop Thornton composed
a volume of poems on his way out. They are en-
titled “ Pakipika,” and all the profit resulting from
their publication is to go to the Diocesan Fund.
We think the title of "Pakipika” is singularly
felicitous, and shows his Lordship’s keen sense of
humour. Of course, we don’t know what it
means; but we have every confidence in its re-
spectability, and can recommend it to the most
exclusive families. Bishop Thornton is not the
one to outrage any of the proprieties, and so we
trust that “ Pakipika ” will find a place alongside
The Bulletin at every genteel fireside.
The following little essay on “What con-
stitutes a Gentleman” is published as the unaided
production of an Italian boy in Wellington“ My
Idias of What constitutes a Gentleman—Kindness,
good manners, no shyness. Straitfourdeness, walk
straigt. Not to proud, no tight boots, no tight
fitting gloves, don’t suck cane handies, ware
your hat stright. don't wink at ladies passing in
the street, always take your hat off on entering
a house, don’t twirl your hat on your finger,
don’t smoke in a company of ladies. Never have
to big of a flower in your button hole, don curl
your fringe in front, don’t be sulkey; never call
anybody by nickname, never start a row. Never
let love matters trouble your Brain, never get
excited, don’t get drunk to often. Never cough,
not if you can help it. Be Oourteus to Ladies.
Never swear. Go to church every Sunday, don’t
pass remark, never tell Lies.”
A Liverpool paper says that, to that class
of preachers who have rendered the “Church of
England ” a by-word for infantile fuss over tricks
of ritualism and punctilious observance, Canon
Barry is a complete antithesis. In a day when the
proceedings of the Church are little better than
puerile mummery, and its sermons almost an in-
sult to persons of ripe understanding. Canon Barry
stands out as a man of swift thought, practised
faculties, and learning. While genial and polished
in society, he is a virile preacher, with none of his
strength polished away ; a man equally in place
among savants and common people. In appear-
ance, our Bishop designate is a portly, powerful
man, with thin hair, a bold Roman face, well
coloured. His sermons arc always written, and
read fluently in a good baritone voice, that fills a
building without effort. We have, says the paper,
only four or five pulpit orators of similar powers.
*■ The dinner given by the Victorian Premier
to such of the dclegatrs as went to Melbourne
after their Herculean labours in tsvduey was a
brilliant affair. It waa laid out on three tables in
the large hall of Parliament House. The uniforms
of a couple of score of guests, and the way the
other couple of hundred guests held their jaws
to the electric lights, made a very impressive
spectacle. When it is said that Mortimer Frank-
iyn was there, the reader will he able to form an
approximate idea of the scale of magnificence
which was observed, and by the thoroughness ot
the Premier’s determination to have every section
of the community represented. There were
waterlilles there, and shrubs and ferns, and pansies
and moss-roses, and gay daffodils, and winsome
honeysuckles, and we noticed in particular several
festoons of evergreens. These last interested us
most, for they seemed to carry a symbolical sig-
nificance. Every time the Premier got up, and,
as chairman, rounded off the preliminaries, he
looked straight at the evergreens and drew in-
spiration from them. And the other speakers
followed suit, and were all able to talk without
laughing. The idea of having such a profusion
of evergreens at the banquet was capital, and will,
we are sure, not be forgotten on any future occa-
sion. Only for the evergreens, the affair would
have been tame enough.
Missionary Shaw, whose portrait below
presents the lineaments of a distinctly vulgar
man, has got his compensation. But we doubt
whether the job would have paid him had he not
been tolerably greedy and intolerably thick-
skinned. Everywhere outside of Exeter Hall and
its atmosphere his sad story has been received
with jeers and derision. London Truth says that
“if Mr. Shaw’s property can be proved to have
been wantonly destroyed by the French, he is en-
titled to an equivalent for it; and if it can be
shown that he did nothing to authorise the French
in putting him under temporary restraint whilst
investigating his conduct, he ought to receive a
sum of money representing the suffering of a mis-
sionary when confined in the cabin ot a French
officer, and given the food of a French sailor. Mr.
Shaw certainlv is a curious sample of a martyr tor
religion. He lived in a house with a number of
servants; he had a cellar of choice claret, which
was pillaged by his servants or by his converts; he
was the President of a Committee of Public Safety,
when the French attacked the town in which he
resided ; he shammed illness when arrested m order
to get better food, and then he made an arrange-
ment with the cook to supply him with a better
•pldt daily; he signed a declaration in which he
admitted that appearances were against his inno-
cence; having returned to England, he opines
that he ought to have £>10,000, not as compensa-
tion but as redress, and at missionary meetings
he is received with applause, especially when he
explains that France ought to treat a gentleman
as a gentleman (whatever this may mean), and
that it fai ed in this respect towards him. This
may be the modern missionary creed. All that I
say is, that if St. Paul had claimed * redress ’ to the
tune of 1,300,000 sestertii because the Romans did
not treat him as a gentleman, confined him in a
centurion’s quarters for a few days, and gave him
the food on which the Legionaries thrived, and
because during his imprisonment his choice
Falernian wine had been drunk by Timothy
and other converts, it is hardly likely that
his successor would now be the head of the
Catholic Church. Autre temps, autre moeurs.”
The French Journal des Debats also chaffs the
tellow thus:—“ Whoever has had patience enough
to wade through the long recital of his tortures
given by the pseudo-martyr of Madagascar to the
2000 or 3000 fanatics of Exeter Hail, will understand
that the English themselves are a little ashamed
of the whole affair. This pious man talks of no-
thing but his eating and drinking. He had bad soup,
worse meat, detestable coffee, and no tea. Only
think, no tea! A little claret, perhaps, but of the
same quality as the meat. In fact, he had meals
frood enough, perhaps, for poor simple creatures,
ike sailors, but totally unworthy of a man of God,
devoted to the conversion of savages.” and adds,
cruelly, that Mr. Shaw ought to have reflected that
if you want turtle soun and roast beef, Chateau
Lafltte, and mocha coffee, tea and cream, your
back to the fire, your stomach to the table, a good
bed and happy dreams, you have no right to be a
missionary.
Swiss Commissioner’s Speech.
Extract from a speech delivered at the Amphi-
theatre of the Primary College of La Chaux-de-
Fonds, Tuesday, the 14th day of November, 1876,
by M. Edouard Favre-Perrel, Swiss Commissioner
and juror to the Philadelphia Exhibition :—
On the Waltham “ Riverside ” Watch.
. . . . “The Waltham Company make the
entire watch—from the first screw to the case and
dial. It would even be difficult for them to use
our products, so great is the regularity, so minute
the precision, with which their machines work
They arrive at the regulation of the watch—so to
say—without having seen it. When the watch is
given te the adjuster, the foreman delivers to him
the corresponding hair-spring and the watch is
regulated. (Sensation among the audience.) Here
is what I have seen, gentlemen! I asked from the
director of the Waltham Company, a watch of the
fifth grade. A large safe was opened before me;
at random I took a watch out of it and fastened it
to my chain. The director, having asked me to
let him have the watch for two or three days, so
as to observe the motion. I answered, * On the con-
trary, I persist in wearing it just as it is, to obtain
an exact idea of your manufacture.’ At Paris, I set
my watch by a regulator on the Boulevard, and on
the sixth day I observed that it had varied 33
seconds. And this watch is of the fifth American
grade; it cost 75 francs (movement without case).
At my arrival at Lode, 1 showed the watch to one
of our first adjusters, who asked permission to
‘ take it down ’—in other words, to take it to
pieces. I, however, wished first to observe it; and
here is the result, which I noted: Hanging, daily
variation, 1% seconds; variation in different posi-
tions, from 4 to 8 seconds; in the ‘ heated room,’
the variation was but very slight. Having thus ob-
served it, I handed the watch to the adjuster, w ho
took it down. After the lapse of a few days, he
came to me and said, word for word; ‘I am com-
pletely overwhelmed: the result is incredible; one
would not find one such watch among 50,000 of our
manufacture.’
“ This watch, gentlemen, I repeat to you, I took
at hazard—out of a heap, as we say. You under-
stand, from this example, that the Waltham watch
may be preferred to the Swiss. I have finished,
gentlemen, and T have told you of things such rs
I have seen them, ft remains for us to profit
Horn this sad experience, and to improve our
manufacture. Competent men are not wanting
among us; they must go to work at one*.’’
cs'SEr'* 1 **• "***•' u “«


The Watch and Jewellery Business
IN SYDNEY.
Special Arrangements
WITH THE
Waltham Watch Company and the great English Patent
Lever Watch Manufacturers.
It is universally admitted in Sydney that very few
hr uses an v where in the colonies can lay claim to
the credit fcr such energy andI enterprise as have
distinguished the career of Mr. T. M. Alcock s
well-known jewellery establishment at the Hay-
market. in this city. Though situate slightly out-
side the centre of business in the great metro-
polis. it has exercised wide influence, attracting,
like other great emporiums, people from all parts
of the city and suburbs, and making itself a place
of call for all country visitors to Sydney who want
to see here all that can be seen in the higher arts.
The correctness of the old adage-a man with
strontr luntrs can be heard down a coal-tnino
was” never 8 better verified than in the fact
that the thorough novelty and genuineness
of Mr T M. Alcock’s diamond and gem
goods, watches, &c., are as well-known in the
most distant parts of the interior as they are in
fivdnev. No announcement has ever been made
bv Mr. Alcock with respect to new goods, that has
not been solidly and conscientiously supported by
vafid worth; and so it has resulted that no one in
Sydney purchases anything in th* lino of superior
diamond jewellery, without first inspecting his
splendid stock, while people who have o dered
goods on the strength, solely, of his press an-
nouncements. have not only been thoroughly sa-
tisfied, but have become a source of continual
recommendation for hi« In by "''J'i
personal inspection can be made, bit people «t a
distant e have to rely on the advertiser a 'hi g
not often done with sip h costly articles p« newe -
lery - and it is highly cr ditab e to Mr. Ale ick’s
judgment In se ection. an l stia gnt-goii-g styie. to
And that his business, per parcel pos* with the
country, is of the most promising and expanding
character. By these men ns of creating th ■ highest
confidence all over the country, the whole» popu-
lation of the colonies tec .me constituents
inst as if they passed tfi« door, and had
their attention attnmed by the elegant display of
the wonders. In ihis page we give a sketch of
Mr, Aloock’s establishment, which is one of the
best designed auu ha dsomest in me city, the
windows wild show cases ex hibitl g about the
most ■ pensive articles and the costliestcollection
o'°.iiHUionds, precious stones, mid flue Jewellery,
..p, eic.. to be seen anywhere uu..b
suhtro But. though m this respect Mr. Aleve.,
has ftdiaittedi/ long been in the front rank, the
arrangements he has been enabled fo oomph
with the great Waltham Watch ••Dpi}, a
the principal English Patent Lever Welch men
facturers, tend to give bis establishment y
greater prominence. While on h is recent nin
months’ business tour in the United States and in
England, Mr. Alcock personally inspected the
great Waltham Watch Company’s Works, Massa-
chusetts, and after several into, views with that
famous proprietary, he was en bled to conclude
an arrangement with them by means of which the
whole continent of Australia is embraced in their
operations. Every description of genuine keyless
Waltham Watch, in gold or silver, guaranteed the
best timekeepers in the world- for lady or gentle-
man, is now easily procurable through Mr. Alcock,
at exactly the same rates as they ate procurable in
the locality of the great Waltham factory. The
manufacturers made the concession to Mr. Alcock
solely in the expectancy of a big business witn all
Australia; and so to the residents of the most
distant parts of Queensland or mtr own colony, as
to the citizens of the metropolis, a chance ot
getting a genuine keyless Waltham at the lowest
possible figure is now offering. Mr. Alcock was
»ble to make a slmilar&rrangement while in London
with the great English Patent Lever Watch manu-
facturers of Cler ken well—large lines of watches
being Jaid down here at manufacturers’ prices.
So that the popularity of the genuine English
Lever is not likely to decrease lor want of con-
cessions on the part of the manufacturers. Mr
Alcock, who is a first-class mechanician, personally
inspects and regulates each watch before it leaves
his hands, and gives a five years’ guarantee ofex-
cellence. Samnles of these new watches (Wal-
tham and Levers) are now on view in the window
—one revolving pedestal in which exhibits just
upon £3000 worth. The show-cases display a
no less attractive stock of Bnsriish and Colonial
sterling gold and d amend jewellery—hundred* ol
articles in which collection are now shown lor ihe
very first time in the colonies. The most impor-
tant announcement comes in here, by way of post-
crlpt as it were. All goods, whether jewellery or
watches, will, on receipt of post-office money-
order, be forwarded to any part of Australia, per
parcel post. free, and at, Mr. Alcock’s own risk
Bv the«e means, distance, however great, is emit ol.v
bridged, ana the enterprise of one man benefits a
| whole people.
Santa Claus in Sydney.
There is hardly a place in Sydney where people
can make a big selection of Christmas toys and
presents, except the American Novelty Company’s
great shops, in Pitt-street, j ust midway between
King and Market streets. Here there are stored
uselul mechanical toys, from every notable fac-
tory in the States; and so that the selection might
be wide, the best toys of English and Continental
manufacture are exhibited in great variety and
number. The American Novelty Co.’s shop is one
grand bazaar, and already crowds are visiting the
place, making their Christmas selections. There is
one great thing to be impressed on the minds of
colonial people, and it is that the American
Novelty Company go in exclusively for presents
for youngsters which are likely to instruct as well
as entertain the juvenile mind. There are up-
wards of 10,000 mechanical toys here to select
from — miniature steam-engines, locomotives,
pumps, saw-mills, steamers. &o. — all of whioh
open the mind and develop genius. These are
the kind of presents—not dumb articles—which
siould be distributed at the Christmas school
examinations all over the country. The Ameri-
can Novelty Company have, besides, thou-
sands of novelties for grown people to pur-
chase. There are novelties in musical clocks,
mo-deal chairs, musical hat-racks, thousands ot
articles for household decorations, hundreds or
different games and pastimes for homes, ana a
category of labour-saving household appliances
which are, of course, new to us in these parts, but
long since in every well-regulated home in tw
States. For youngsters there are hundreds ot bi-
cycles and tricycles, and toys of various kinds
all of the most durable description; walking and
talking animals, yachts, Christmas trees, &c. me
great feature of the toys is their extraordinary
strength. For ladies, there is an endless vanety
of presents in the shape of workboxes, handsome
fans, ladies’ companions, photo, frames, &c. Mr.
Little, the manager, specially invites a call from
the heads of families, school-teachers, &c., with
whom he will deal most liberally The American
Novelty Company throw open their bazaar tor
inspection to the public ; and no visitor is ex-
pected to invest on making an inspection, the
whole place having Jong since been made quite a
fashionable resort.
A Big Building Business.
The history of the wonderful growth of Austra-
lian cities is not complete without a sketch of the
work of our more i nportaut Building Societies.
It is beyond dispute that these societies have aided
the progress of our great populous Centres at least
quarter of a century ; and it is no less an ad-
mitted fact that, while th se societies.havebeen
conducted with purely tina .oial objects, they
nave solved, in tins country, political and
social questions that have sirely troubled
older and less fortunate communities, taking
•jydney, for instance, the whole railway suburbs—
once a continuous series of big estates—owe their
existence almost entirely to the influence or the
Pig building societies, w nere, ten years ago, one
family resided, there are now liutinreds ot iambics
m comfortable freehold homes; aiidtuusthe break-
ing up of huge estates has gone along, peacefully
and satisfactorily. It is difficult, indeed, to esti-
mate the substantial aim h«opy results which
thus accrue to any commu i y. Now, no Build-
ing Society in these colonies, it is generally
admi tei, can lay claim to dung more m this de-
siratlidir. ction th in i he IndcB rial and Provident
Permanent, Benefit, Building, Land and invest-
ment Society and Savings Bank, whose head office
is situated in York-street. in this city. I his
society was established In 1871, and from its ft* ft
Inauguratio i i has, by good management md
from its s< und basis, enjoyed an uninterrupted
run of pr< s enty. it has fortunately secuicd,
throughout its history, a directory ot hard-headed
misiness men, and it has, moreover, had tor its
manager, t e man who founded it. Tae Indust iai
and Pror dent wi S launched by Mr. William Jar-
rett, the manager, and he adopted as a bas.s cei-
tain priacipl. s which experience i » other seciat. es
forced under his attention and judgment. Mr.
Jarrett n j ctea toe priacip e upon wnich the old-
fashioned so detiei were connected, that is, sales by
auction of all advances made, it o ten nappentd
chat when an advance was to be made, five or six
or more members urgently required the sura at
cho same time and hence ihe competition lor the
loan always meant excessive interest by way ot
ourehase, &c. This costly principle was sup-
planteo oy Mr. Jarrett by -mo which enaolen a
member, imme iiately after joining, ge.tmg an ad-
vance at a fixed rate of interest, with no
excessive charges by oomoetition. He was
enabled to do this from the i act that the Industrial
Provident had a d-p o r ient or bianeu wh-.e
people woo aid not uon.rc to bund Oouid luv.&t
tacit money fit a certain good Interest. Xnufl,
i people who had cash available virtually got mort-
gages on solid values, without having any of the
expense—because the society only advanced the
deposits on substantial real estate securities. The
money invested in this branch began in the first
year with £12,534, and in twelve years ran up to
the splendid total of £1,374,750; while the invest-
ments in paid-up shares, commencing with £1870,
ran up in the same period to £136,545. It will be
seen from this that the Industrial and Provident
had a reserve fund at the outset to operate on, so
that borrowers desirous of building could get
their money immediately, without competition,
and at a figure which enabled them to see what
the arrangement would cost. The whole business,
under these circumstances, was consequently very
large—the contributions in the twelve years reach-
ing £1,059,714, while the total receipts reached
the splendid sum of £2,674,676. There Is hardly
a street in any one of our suburbs that
doesn’t owe something to ihe working of the liberal
principles of the Industrial and Provident. By its
aid some thousands of handsome residences and
business bouses have been erected and become the
clear property of the once struggling borrower.
Another great principle which was adopted for
the society was the “mutual’’ principle. By this
arrangement the borrower actually reaped benefit
by interest on his own borrowing and repayment.
A more liberal financial principle could hardly be
adopted, and it Is not surprising that the member-
shin of one branch or another Included people of
every class in the community—the mechanic, the
b'isi K83 and professional man, the capitalist, the
artisan, e c. Ihe amount advanced on mortgage
by the society up to the present time is somewhere
anout one and a quarter millioi' 8, and a contingent
fund, besides tue securities, Las been created to
the extent of just upon £25,000, We notice, from
recant official statistics, tuat the Industrial and
Provident of Sydney stands in the premier place
on the list ol ouilding societies in Australia wit <
regard to fli anoial returns, investments, etc., and
as its business every nay imre <ses, a career ot still
wider influence and benefit opens to its operations.
Some idea of the work for this year may be judged
from the iaotthat the advances during iis curn ncy
will reach the great totnl of near upon £180 000.
t he society has branch offices at Newcastle, Kiamu,
Hawkesbury, and Parramatta. On application
person illy, or by post, intending investors or bor-
rowed can obtain from the manager, Mr. Jarrett,
the fullest particulars and simplest details of the
society s working. There is no reason why with
t iis grand society in existence every individual in
one community is not uetpod into some position of
security, prosperity, and contentment.


WILL OPEN ON 1st JANUARY, 1884.
SMITH & THORNE,
Stock and Share Brokers,
AND
FINANCIAL AGENTS,
75 Pitf-street.
Loans Negotiated.
EVERY
MAN
Dr. Marston’s New Work
Describing bow sufferers from
Nervous and Physical Debility,
Mental Decay and all disorders
resulting from Excesses, Indis-
cretions or Overwork, are per-
manently Cured
Without Stomach Medicines.
SHOULD
WRAK. SKBVOrS, ANB IMPOTENT
MEN RESTORED TO
VIOOR. HEALTH * MANHOOD
Consultation with Physician
and Book FREE. Address—
READ
Marston Remedy Co.,
”2 IbIZ: BITS ST .. STDH1T
READER I Did you ever rob a Priest ? or a
Church? or a Blind Man ? If not, you are
untit to keep a music shop in [Sydney I Send for
my Price List, and you will see how you are fleeced
to pay for heavy rents. I have the largest and
cheapest stock of Meet Anglos in Australia; ext’a
loud, and guaranteed to last two years. Repairs
reasonable; and fit, finish, and durability distancing
all compeers. Look into any instrument in Sydney,
and you will find it is botched with a bit of old
candlestick, reduced with a rasp—and then com-
pare it with my work, and laugh I
J. STANLEY,
Concertina Doctor,
Bathurst.
Finest cigarettes, finest cigarettes
ARE
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR,
Manufactured by W. S. KIMBALL and CO.,
Rochester, U.S.A.
DOUBLE EVENT.
A.J.C. SUMMER CUP
AND
TATTERSALL’S CUP.
<50 to 5s.
A.J.C. SUMMER CUP, to be run at Randwick,
26th December. One mile and a half.
TATTERSALL’S CUP, to be run at Randwick,
1st January. Two Miles.
edwariTferry,
1 urf Commission Agent,
Manchester Arms (two doors from Royal Hotel),
George-street, Sydney.
THE FOLLOWING STALLIONS will Stand
the ensuing Season at RICHMOND, where
first-class Paddocks will be provided for Mares,
with every care and attention, but without re-
sponsibility :—
A lew half-bred Mares will be taken to Beauclero
at half-price.
Each Horse will be limited to 15 of the public
mares.
All Mares must be paid for and removed by
January 1, 1884.
ANDREW TOWN, Richmond.^
LYDESDALE8,
The following Imported Pure Clydesdale STAL-
LIONS will STAND at Richmond the coming
Season, when first-class Paddocks will be provided
for Mares, with every care and attention, but
without responsibility :—
MUIR LAD,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
DAVIE,
Terms —6 Guineas per Mare.
GALLANT SCOTCHMAN,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
Comment on these Hoi ses is unnecessary. They
have proved themselves on all the principal Show
‘•rounds of the Colony, and their Stock have done
the same, their progeny at six months old selling
at from 50 guineas to 100 guineas each.
All Mares must be paid for and removed by
January 1, 1884.
ANDREW TOWN, Richmond.
TO STAND THIS SEASON, at Duckenfleld,
near Morpeth.—The Thoroughbred Stallion
HENCHMAN
(late Friday), full brother to Robinson Crusoe, the
sire of Navigator, by Angler, out of Chrysolite,
will serve tea approved mares, besides his owner’s,
at Thirty Guineas per mare.
Also,
CROWN PRINCE,
by Kelp’e, out of Queen’s Head, by Yattendon,
out of Gazelle, will serve ten approved mares,
besides his owner’s,
at Ten Guineas per mare.
Splendid paddocks, and every care taken of
mares sent to the above horses, but no responsi-
bility incurred.
All mares must be paid for before removal.
Season ends on 1st January, 1884. Mares not re-
moved on that d,ate will be charged ten shillings
per week each up to date of removal.
JOHN SALES.
Duckenfleld, September 18th, 1888.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Cough*. Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief;
a small bottle often cures. Ask for p’’
and get it; spurious imitations are sometim )
offered.
Nowhere perhaps has the dentist’s art obtained
such high excellence as in Sydney. Certainly we
are in no sense behind any other city. Visitors to
Sydney might, to test this, visit the establishment
of Messrs. Adolphe Gabriel and Company. 18 Wyn-
yard Square, two doors from Pt'ahlert’s Hotel.
Here the manufacture of every essential in the
profession is carried on. At the rear of the surgery
is a compact little factory where all the requisites
for supplying every dental detect in the human
mouth are made. Messrs. Gabriel and Co. (whose
only address is as above; are always pleased to
show their specimens of artificial teeth to those
Interested. There being two Arms of the same
name in the Square, patients will oblige by paying
particular attention to the Christian name, Aaofph r
and the number, 18, two doors from Pfahiorf*
HcteL—Adtt.
“Rouen os Hats.”— Clears out rats, mice,
roach 's, flies, ants, bed-bug’s, beetles, insects,
skunks,jack-rabbits, gophers. Druggists. Moses,
Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents.
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shctU be glad to have this index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general .1
RACING INDEX.
will find the column regularly
hea. od with a list of fixtures to be attended to
within the month; followed by names and dates
ot iva. e-meetings to be held in the more distant
future.
APPROACHING FIXTURES.
Casino Acceptances December 23.
New England Handicaps close December 33.
Hillston Races December 36.
Bega Acceptances December oi.
8.T.C. General Entry January b, 1884.
Adelong Races January!, 2.
New England Weights January ?.
New England Acceptances .January 17.
Balonne Handicaps close February 18.
Balonne St. George Handicap Weights....March 13.
Balonne St. George Handicap Accept March dl.
Balonne Handicap Weights April 8.
FUTURE RACES.
Liverpool J.C December 22.
Victoria Amateur T.C December 36.
Pleasant Creek (V.) December 36.
Clarence Tattersall's J.C December 3b.
Casino Races - - December 26.
Gunnedah December 26, 27.
Wallsend December 36, 37.
Tattersall’s (Annual) January 1, 1884.
Orange J.C January 1.
V.R.C. January 1.
Wentworth January 1.
Candelo Races —..January 2.
Bega J/j. Races January lb, 11.
New England Races Janury 25, 38.
Sydney T.C •• January 36.
Goulburn T.C • .-February 1. 3.
Tasmanian R.C. (Summer) February 13, 14,13.
Coonabarabran January 34, 35.
Cooma Races February 20, 31.
Braid wood Races February b. 8.
V.R.C. Autumn March 1, 6, 8.
Wanganui (N.Z.) J.C. Autumn March 6, 7.
Balonne (Q.) Races April 8, 9.
Hawkesbury R.C (Autumn) April 3. 5.
AQUATICS
Newcastle Regatta January 1,1884.
National Regatta January 36.
CRICKET.
Melbourne v. N.S.W. at Melbourne Dec. 36.
ATHLETICS.
Hay Athletic Club Sports. Dec. 26,37.
Blayney Snorts • • - Dec. 36.
Wrestling Match, Cobar December 36.
Highland Society’s Gathering January!
Mudgee Sports " — January 26.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MENS.
In England, F. Sutton won the 50-miles
am iteur bicycle championship in 3h. 6min. 41sec.
On October 36 the whole of Mr. Long’s
English stud, save Tonans, left Graham Place for
Ellesmere House, to be trained by C. Archer.
The past English swimming season has
been remarkable in the way of record breaking.
An amateur named W, Henry recently swam 98
yards in 1 min. 6 4-5scond, and beat Blew-Jones
record made ten days previously.
Mr. Barclay, the owner of Bendigo, gave
Luke £500 for rldinsr the horse in the Garabridge-
shire. It is stated that Bendigo was seized with a
cough alter the Cesarewitch. which prevented Mr.
Barclay from winning’ more than a f©w thousand
over the colt’s victory. Bendigo started at 50 to 1.
W. J. Peall and F. White, English bil-
liardists, played a match of 1000 up, the latter
receiving 300 start. Peall won by 47 points in 3 h.
28m. The winner made breaks of 101(37 spots'j 133
(34 and 3 spots), and the loser made the break of the
evening, 306 (64 spots), one ol the leatures of the
break being that ne ran from 430 to 530 in less than
live minutes.
Archer is the most persevering man the art
of riding ever known Even with his well amassed
fortune he at the present day wastes as much as
ever—princioally reducing his weight by Turkish
baths. Wood has the advantage in weights, as he
can ride 7st. 6fi>. at a push. The last mentioned
and Watts, who rode Ossian in the Leger, are
likely to visit N.Z. soon.
At a recent meeting of the Rugby Foot-
ball Union, in London, it was decided that after
the 1st Decmber when the alterations become law,
It will be impossible for anyone to carry out the
practice of dropping at goal after taking the
Elace kick. Another Important change is that a
all becomes dead as soon as the place-kick is
taken, and thereby the system of rushing up and
gaining a second try is also stopped.
At the Moseley Harrier's meeting at Lillie
Bridge (Eng.), the 100 yards resulted in an unsatis-
factory dead heat between Cowie and hitchle,
although the majority of those present declared
the former had won. Cowie was out of form, and
the race was run in loMsec., which makes one scepti-
cal as to Ritchie’s alleged 100 yards in 9 4-5th sec.
The great attraction of the meeting was the mile
match between George and Snook, although it
proved very unexciting, George winning easily in
imin. 36J4sec.
It is rumoured that a Mr. Brock way, of
Mexico, N.7., has discovered a new prodigy who,
he states, is certain to beat Hanlan, Teemer, Ross,
and the other principal scullers with ease. The
“coming man’ f is described as standing 6ft. 3in.,
weighing 13st. 8Tb., and is but twenty-three yeai s
of age. Further, he has never undergone the
slightest training nor taken part in a sculling race,
but is credited with having, in an ordinary fishing
boat, rowed two miles in 14min. 53seo. He is sup-
posed to be training on the quiet at present.
Courtney has apparently lost no time in
beating Hosmer’s record of 30min 3sec. for three
miles, as he is stated to have rowed this oistance
in the marvellous time of 19min. 27see., which is
47)860. faster than the best performance ol the
Champion. The Union tprmgs sculler was re-
puted to have done 30min. 5sec. on September 30,
and finding himself eclipsed by the really genuine
record of Hosmer has evidently t nought it
necessary to set his rivals a much severer task.
Courtney’s performances, however, always come
off with doubtful and mysterious surroundings.
At Duluth, Minn., on the 29th ult., George
W. Hamilton, the American professional jumper,
jumped 6 feet 1 inch in a high jump, and later ue
cleared 36 feet inches on a board floor in three
Sumps, using 91b. dumb-bells, the last of the t tree
umps being 14 feet3 inches. Another feat which
he performed with great ease was to place six
common onairs in a row, one in front of the other,
and jump over the row lengthwise in one bound.
Hamilton is a native of Fredonia, N.Y. He is
years of age, 5 feet 8 inches in height, and weighs
165 pounds. He has been a professional jumper
for years, and has never met his equal, either in
this country or Europe. At Romeo, Mich., on
Oct. 3, 1879, he defeated Fred. Bmrick, of Ypsilanti,
who claimed the championship of America.
Hamilton’s jump was 14 feet 5>$ inches, which yet
stands as the best single jump on record. Em-
rlck’s Jump in that match was 13 feet 10 inches.
On Nov. 27,1880, Hamilton jumped a match (three
Jumps) with the champion of England, giving the
latter a foot, and beating him 3 feet 1 inch. His
beet record for three Jumps is 39 feet 1 inch.
The N.Y. SroKTSMAN is the paper on
which L. E. Myers, the Yankee flyer, is tiring his
editorial talents. Mr. Myers is evidently not
averse to keeping his own name before the public,
as, in alluding to the miraculous times ••ttributed
at Birmingnam to Rltctiie, he brings in bi< o«n
deteat over the same course, and the cause to
which he thinks it should be attributed. He dis-
courses as follows:—“In 1881, when Myers was in
England, he met with one defeat, and that was in
the 100 Yards Championship Race at Aston Lower
Grounds. He was easily beaten by three out of
the four starters, and was unable to-run a bit. He
accounted for this by the sudden fall in the track,
and being a iisht long strider, could not keep on
his feet. He offered to run Cowie, the winner of
the heat, on the L.A.C. grounds, but the latter
declined. The fact is, a strong heavy man can run
three or four yards faster down hill than he can
on a level track, whereas, a light, easy runner is
all at sea.” It is needless to say the Yankee is “a
light, easy runner.” At the Canadian Cham-
pionship games, Myers had it all his own way,
naving a couple of virtual walks over in the 220
yards and 440 yards races, and W. R. Thompson
was credited with beating evens in the “ hundred.
The course is said to be down hill, and the Ameri-
cans do not accept the performance as a record.
E. A. J. Queckberner also won the 561b. weight,
the shot, and hammer competitions, defeating in
each Lambrecht, the United States champion; but
it is only fa:r to state that the latter was notin
form. Queckberner's performances were as fol-
lows: In the 561b. weight he heaved 24ft. ;
he put the shot 41ft. lOJ^in.; and he threw the
hammer 97ft. 5J4 n. In the last-named competi-
tion, the course was not level; otherwise the
throw would be a best on record, American style,
from a stand without follow.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
At Ceolah, the Ironbarks cricketers de-
feated the local team by 117 to 111....Donald
Diuuie is now on a tour through tde United States,
and wrote from San Francisco to Mr. George
Watson, secretary to the Caledonian Society,
Dunedin, N.Z., saying that he would arrive by the
next mail steamer, and reach Dunedin about De-
cember 15th... Martini-Henry’s dam had a coit
foal to the imported horse Anteros on the day
alter the V.R.C. Derby was run — At Nowra,
the local cricketers were defeated by the Bur-
lier team, by an innings and 13 runs
A jockey club has been formed at Bombala—
The racehorse Spaniard has been sold by Mr.
Duggan to Mr. Lyons, for the sum of £200. Since
the purchase the horse has been successful at the
Temora meeting... .The horse Cinder# sustained
fatal injuries at the Narandera meeting.. .. Felix
Goodlellow, the crack Australian ped who visiteo
N.Z. as a promoter ol sports in 1879, is married and
settled down in Adelaide .A well-known auc-
tioneer of Melbourne, who recently died, had
Martini-Henry for Derby and Cup standing in
his name for about £2v00 Adamant, the
winner of tue last Dunedin (N.Z.) Cup, deve-
loped a “ leg,” and had to be eased iu his work..,.
A colt named Armament, Oy Musket, dam Sissie,
got the hist prize in the two-year-old eutire class
at Patea (N.Z.i show, and was the centre of attrac-
tion, no doubt on account of Martini-Henry's
recent victories Governor Broome, of Western
Australia, has assented to the local totalisator Bill,
to the intense disgust of the Gelaldton Express.
Don Juan's Cup victory was referred to as fol-
lows in an English paper
“ If there's aught in a name, then ’twas fitting and
right
Don Juan should win the big race;
For Byron's young man was a very fast wight,
And coula never be beaten tor pace.”
It is said, on good authority, that the Hon
W. Hobinson has become so disgusted with his bad
fortune iu Handicap races in N.Z., that be talks
of bringing his “whole fleet” of horses and hit,
training establishment over to Australia, and
going into racing on a big scale, or else confining
his attention to welght-for-age races in N.Z.
A. E Preece, a N.Z. tricyclist, recently covered 100
miles in 24 hours on an Excelsior tricycle —The
Dapto cricketer# defeated the Illawarras, at
Dapto, withswen wickets to spare.
* * *
Though George Hosmer was able to cover
three miles in his preliminary heat of the princi-
pal event at the Great Pittsburg Regatta, one of
the chief aquatic fixtures of the year in the
United States, iuthe unprecedented lime of 20min.
3sec., his boat leaked and threw him out of the
final, or in all probability we should hate seen
this performance eclipsed In England, G.
Bnghtwcll and George Perkins were matched to
row from Putney to Mortlake on December 17
For a so-called 20-miles' bicycle championship, run
for at Belgrave ttoads Grounds (Eng.), Howell
covered the distance in Ih. 9min. 43sec , and won...
George Bubear has lost no time in replying to the
challenge thrown out oy Wallace Boss, wherein
the New Brunswicker offered the Putney man an
allowance of ten seconds over the thomes Cham-
pionship course. • he English champion expresses
himself quite agreeable to scull Ross on these
terms, and would be glad to arrange a meeting
with the supporters of the last-named to draw up
the necessary a tides. From the latest American
exchanges, however, we learn that Ross, in the
company of Plaisted, has taken a saloon at Pitts-
burgh, so that this looks as if he has no intention ol
visiting England during the forthcoming w inter.
English winning mounts; F. Archer won 212, lost
358 ; 0. Wood won 173, lost 396.... F. Wood, the
celebrated English bicyclist, was, on Sept, il, pre-
se ned with the20 miles champion belt, value £50,
which he has won outright on the Belgrave
grounds The Indian papers state that Mr.
Weekes had arrived, but had lost over 50 horses,
most of them having been killed in a terrific gale
experienced off Cape Leuwin, but Mistaken and
The Ghost were all right after the voyage It is
said that Hosmer and Teemer will row double
sculls next season, and will issue a challenge to the
whole world. These two, judging by their receut
performances, should be capable of giving Hanlan
and Lee, or Hamm and Conley, a hard race over any
distance. ..In a billiard match in England, between
w. J. Peall and A. Smart, the former made breaks
of 42 (12 spots), 198 (63 spots', 338 (110 spots), 148 (44
spots) 108 (34 spots), and 38 (seven spots)
One of the most exciting finishes that has been
witnessed on the Tyne (Eng.) for ihany a day
ensued in the match between Onick an„ Gibson,
two comparatively unknown men, who recently
sculled for a.idle of the northern championship
course. Orrick, who started a warm favourite,
his opponent having undergone little or no train-
ing, led for halt a mile. After this, Gibson com-
menced to draw up, and, rowing with the greatest
determination, finally won a punishing race by
little more than half a yard. Gibson’s style
greatly pleased the cognoscenti, and It is antici-
pated that with practice and training he will de-
velop into a sculler of more than average form.
The Bulletin Christmas Card.
To the Infanta—somewhat trying,
On account of constant crying:
To girls and boys who haven't yet left school;
To the maid who still is growing;
To the young man, cute and knowingl
As well as to the dunder-headed fool;
To the lover—writing sonnets
On his girl’s best.Sunday bonnets;
And also to the fairy he selects!
To the merchant, hale and wealthy.
With his matron, plump and healthy
(We always had a weakness for the sex );
To the old boy just “ retiring ;”
And the old maid near expiring;
To fat and thin, to short and to the tall;
To doctor, dude, or draper.
If subscribers to this paper—
Here's a jolly Merry Christmas to you all!
FFarnell first acquired name and fame by a
stonewalling 1 speech of some eleven hours. No
wonder he regarded with contempt Mac's seven
hours’ spurt.
O’Donnell says that Carr-Boy d ro-
mances in his statement that his (O’D’s) party were
lost in Arnhelm Land, and only regained the sta-
tion whence they started by a miracle. Possibly
the truth lies somewhere between the two state-
ments The O’Donnell cum Carr-Boyd set were
evidently a by no means happy family.
Professor Fawcett, the blind Postmaster-
General of England, who was a Radical ten years
ago. but has been left behind by the electric pro-
gress of modern thought, laments _ the de-
parture from the principle of nationalization in
India ; he thinks it would be beneficial to Aus-
tralia and other new States ; but he shudders at
the proposition to apply it to England. He'll
have to shudder, for it’s coming as certain as
death is.
Moubray, P.M., Herberton (Q.), puzzled
to square the alleged electoral irregularities at
California Gully (late Cook election). Too much
cookee was the matter. Eighty electors fixed up
two hundred and fifty votes. The mountebank
who had announced the sensation _trh k of his
getting into a quart-pot excused himself on the
ground that he couldn't find a quart-pot suffi-
ciently big. The Californian Gully Cooks did
their getting-into-a-quart-pot trick to rights—and,
with even more ingenuity than the mere doing oi
the trick involved, left its solution to somebody
else.
The deceased Marwood appears to have
been sincerely mourned by his “ better-ha If,” for
the old lady has paid the best possible compliment
to his worthy memory by dying—she couldn’t do
more. The event provided quite a special item for
the London evening papers, and was much com-
mented upon by people w o appear to think that
a hangman’s wife must necessarily be destitute ol
womanly affections. They show their ignorance.
If Marwood had been an Earl, for instance, his
Countess might have been making sheep's-eyes at
some other fellow by this time. One theory to
account for Mrs. M.’s unexpected decease is that
she couldn’t bear the notion o', her accomplished
husband’s profession fallii g nto possible dis-
repute in th. hands of an amateur. Let us sing:
THE HANGMAN’S WIFE.
When Marwood left this mortal life
To hang out in a better sphere.
We never thought about the wife
Who held the hangman's memory dear,
Until the start ing noose we read,
That she, poor soul, the other day
Had »1u>t her bolt, and homeward fled
To him whol tely dropped away.
General Roger A. Pryor, and ex-Judge
William Fullerton were the two distinguished
American lawyers employed to defend O Donnell
—Carey’s assassin. Late European advices have
inlormed us that O’Donnell was found guilty, and
condemned to death, so that the efforts of Messrs.
Prvorand Fullerton, if they actually took part in
the trial, as well as those of the senior counsel,
Mr. Sullivan, appear to have been unavailing.
That O’Donnell killed Carey is as certain as that in
doing- so, he rid the world of one of the most
malodorous scoundrels that ever disgraced human
nature—an unfeeling, merciless villain, whoso
nam* will long be execrated in the country which
had the misfortune to breed him.
Gen. Roger A, Pryor,
THE AMERICAN LAWYER
started for England * >utor>er 3, ro aasist in defend
ing Carey s slayer.
Ex- Judge William Fullerton,
one of the distiuijuished Vew York lawyers re-
tained to assist in O’Donnell’s defence.


Jjl URNTTURE SHOW ROOM
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring- streets, Sydney.
H
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTAND8, and
_ CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
LBRARY RE and SIDE
TABLES. BOOKCASE SECRETAIRES,
Reading and lounge chaIrs.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, in EXQUISITE
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy ot
inspection. .
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb. _____
E1URNITURE.-THE LARGEST STOCK IN
THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
MB, O’Connoll-street.
ARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, Ac.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with Yroet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Conmoll streets, Sydney.
EIGUT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES— The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY,
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-atrect.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 30s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, fram 35s; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from 10s 6d; Tables, from 7s 6d: Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 25s; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
16s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB. O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
HE ROSEBERY EASY CHAIR,
Upholstered and Finished, complete, 18s.
Patterns of coverings forwarded to select from.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
0~ CCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
HTFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
Easy occasional chairs, tor
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
Drawing-room occasional chairs.—
a GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d.
CHAIR BED STEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive.
T~ OILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, complete, 40 Guineas.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, comprising 5-FEET
EARLY ENGLISH SIDEBOARD, MAHOGANY
EXTENDING DINING TABLE, with patent
screw and two l aves: LARGE PIER GLASS,
COUCH, GENT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 8 CHAIRS, covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
DINING - TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR—
Patented.
&
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when folded. Price 80s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only).
JARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Ormolu.
VERY ELEGANT items for Drawing-room.
FRAMEWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
T71RAMEW0RK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
Jn TUBE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
EDSTBADS, nickei-plated and black andbrasa;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell-street.
WASRSTANDB, with marble. 26s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS, 20s; Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Asaoi uueut; beat make, lots eat prices.
SOCIAL.
Mrs. Hardie (Mayoress-elect) gave a juvenile
party on Friday at “Louisville,” Darling burst, to
mark Miss Florence Hardie’s birthday. About four
score were present, but only very few in faney
dress, the young beneficiare being a Scotch Lassie,
and her father (His Worship) a Huutsman. The
ornamenting and illuminations of the place were
very tine, and an elaborate supper was spread in
the billiard-room. A programme of 20 dances was
deemed sufficient for the season, and the satisfied
guests took leave at a reasonable hour of the
morning,
• • *
Simplicity reigns on the Block, and though
a few rich toilets are seen, plain materials, plainly
made up, distinguish most of the best dressers.
Some whites are delicious. For instance, a snowy
lawn, with skirt gathered tightly in at the waist,
had the bodice in alternate strips of insertion and
narrow tucks; above was a basket-wove hat, pre-
senting the speckled colour seen in strawberries
and cream. Another pure white was worn with
one of those princesse bonnets which always look
so very lady-like, and just under its rim the face
was framed by a fringe of mignonette. It was
neat to perfection. Yet a third: it was white
dotted grenadine, with stiffened flounces and a
silver belt, beneath a hat which seemed to have
suffered the combined efforts of a corps of mil-
liners to reduce it to utter shapelessness. An-
other white was marked by the extreme obtru-
siveness of some of its curves, which, however,
would not be so observable from a front view, its
ridged shoulders, and large double ruche round the
the neck. Other white toilets till the street by the
score; but these are given as types. Quiet
Zephyrs are very plentiful, but the flowered
sateens of last year are not so yet. Pink has suf-
fered a slight revivification, but will certainly not
be as popular as before. A beautiful lady, who is
always dressed well, wore just grey zephyr, with a
cardinal belt. This plan ©f a coloured waist belt
is a favourite one ; many ladies with neutral or
colourless dresses wear a bright gold or crimson
belt, with great effect.
• • «
A good crowd of people went to the
Cyclists’ Union races on Saturday, when the new
cinder bicycle track was first used. The City Band
played in the centre of the green, and any number
of seats were available, some on the grass, on
forms, chairs, &c., and there were marquees on the
rise. It was a very fine day; and this was the first
remark which His Excellency the Governor made
on arrival at the ground. A varied programme
was provided, mo.'t events being in heats; the
race for boys was great tun, three taking part ;
and in the boys’ tricycle race, two rode, the small
boy on the old wooden boneshaker getting in
ahead of the other small boy on an iron machine
about the size of a gin-case. The obstacle race
was a decided novelty, the competitors having to
travel through sand, over a double lot of sheep-
pens ; and the effoits of each racer to get his
bicycle—probably the most awkward piece of
mechanism to handle ever devised by human inge-
nuity—over these obstacles, caused roars of laugh-
ter. Though the absence of a grand stand made
some difference to the ladies, yet a number of
summer costumes were treated to an airing. A grey
shepherd’s check with black trimmings was neat.
Two maidens had their all-whiteness relieved by
the gayest of parti-coloured sashes; and two more,
as a contrast, were all in a pretty China blue.
Their dresses were of cashmere, pleated skirts,
puffed panniers, and square-tabbed bodices. A
warm-looking silk broche was of deep nasturtium
colour; and a Zenania cloth of peculiar dull green
was trimmed with flowered silk, and surmounted
by a ficelle sunshade. The gayest dress was a long
flowing tunic of bright tartan silk (reddish shades
predominating) over a flounced skirt of delicate
white grass cloth. A check zephyr of sorrel shades
was neat, on a beauty. A white nainsook, with
gold belt and bonnet, bespoke real taste. Two
resses that drew many glances were of light blue
nun’s veiling, trimmed with ruby velvet, the
colours harmonizing capitally. The warm sun
brought the parachutes into use, but many of
them seemed to be troublesomely heavy. And
Colonel Ike Austin was there all in white, looking
as pure as the beautiful snow, and he would look
better still if he would only cut his hair.
• • •
Nithsdale Rooms were all aglisten on the
11th instant, when the annual ball was given to
Juveniles. Some 200, Including a few seniors, were
present, and the languorous heat of the night
didn't seem to interfere with their enjoyment, it
is the exclusive privilege of older people to “ talk
about the weather,” and entertain one another
with observations on the state of the atmosphere
which are palpably unnecessary; yet there is just
a little excuse for it when the thermometer gets
up to 97 and several decimals. Many children
were In fancy dresses quite new. Of these, the
best were two young Polish brothers—one being
Aladdin in light blue, and the other a Prince in
dark blue, bound with white fur, and slashed
military fashion across the breast. And it seemed
the happy lot of these two young gentlemen to be
the favoured cavaliers of the prettiest little pair
of sisters in the room, from Woollahra, both fairy-
like in white, with shoes, stockings, and wreaths
to match, on tresses that matched the weather-
warm— and streamed down their backs. A Penrith
belle, daughter of a Member, made a fine Manola,
In crimson satin skirt with black iace over the
head. Two enchanting little sisters were from
Hegent-street—one in pink satin and etceteras,
the other all in blue. A little North Shore damsel,
in white and tartan, did a Highland fling, showing
lots of spirit and some new steps. Messrs. H. and
E. Needs executed a hornpipe in full sailor
costume, carrying flags in each hand, in
excellent style. A spendid dancer was dis-
tinguished by blue skirts which seemed to
have a tendency rather to width than length, and
pink satin top. The daughter of a landsalesman
in crimson body and white skirt, was also airy ;
from Pitt-street, Redfern, was a maiden graceful
in a fine blue broclui and nun’s veiling ; while the
relative of a well-known cricketer, in blue broch<S
and cream skirt with black stripes made a blonde
Greek girl. Two tinies from Castlereagh-street
represented an old English Gentleman and his
“ Mrs.”—as old-fashioned as they were small; but
fatigue told considerably on the (6-yr.) old gentle-
man, who was discovered early in the proceedings
fast asleep in a corner. Woollahra sent a youn.
lady of fascinating fifteen, whose cream toilet was
decked with black velvet cross bows ; and a nice
white dress was similarly adorned with good
effect. There was one commendable Sailor Girl in
white, with collarette and hat brim of bright blue;
a fine Spanish Girl, all in black ; and peasants,
soldiers, and modern little girls were plentiful.
Of adults, the dress of a Castlereagh-street young
lady was very stylish and “ taking ” ; it was of
cream silk, dotted with colour, with short ridged
sleeves, very full skirts, and paniers as fictitiously
puffed up as the airy prominences on a penny tart.
Piling the hair on top made some of the small
children look intensely quaint. Miss Eva Thomp-
son, just returned from England after so success-
ful a career in musical study, was gracefully
dressed in pale blue grosgrain silk. The juveniles
paid every attention to the delicacies of the sup-
per table; “they smiled upon them, and, they
bloomed no more.” Mrs. Low was attentive to
all the wants of the young ladies, and the ball
ended soon after one o’clock.
■
♦ ♦ ♦
Miss Lee (sister of the bicyclist) celebrated
one of her birthdays last Thursday at the Pitt-
Btreet academy. Like Hans Breitman, she “ gif a
barty.” The place was decorated with flags and
devices, and dancing started at 9 o'clock to volun-
teer music. Estimable Miss Underwood earned a
lot of credit, while some pieces of Miss Lee's own
playing were excellent. On the floor, her fair and
younger sister. Miss Louisa, looked graceful in
creamy lace, and a little brown-haired charmer
was distinguished by a pretty dress of white satin
moire, draped with bright red gauze. A dark girl
made a “royal blond” of light and dark blue,
which, perhaps, accounted for her “whisky”
movements. Two costumes of white, with light
blue trimmings, indicated good dancers; so did
cardinal satin and cream nun’s veiling, worn by a
tall and lively young lady. Varied and abundant
refreshments were levied on very heartily—there
seemed a connection between heat and eat. And
Miss Lee herself proved a tireless and charming
little hostess to her friends.
Bazaars and shows have been the order of
the past week in every direction. At Newtown
Town Hull was one tor the Church of England at
Macdonaldtown. In the Protestant Hall, the Mar-
rickville Congregational Church bazaar was opened
afresh every afternoon with a fresh speech. Stalls
were under the galleries, and there was plenty of
music. St. Philip’s Church got up a bazaar in the
school room, Charlotte Place; five stalls, choir
singing, and the St. Mark’s hand-bell squad. Rand-
wick indulged in a flower show and conversazione
for two nights, when local residents held a pleasant
meeting, and furnished vocal and piano music.
* IB *
The Misses Harvey, of “Llanfoyst,” gave
a social soiree in Kandwlck Town Hall on the 13th
instant. At first, there was a concert, including a
long quartet, a nice trio by a young gentleman
and two little girls, a duet prettily given by two
local young ladies, and a recitation by a Waverley
gentleman. Dancing came next, and with refresh-
ments, and open windows to modify the calorific
atmosphere, it was kept up till after midnight.
* ♦ V
Pitt-street Debating Society gave a com-
plimentary concert to their friends on the 13th.
Hall full, and the Pitt-street magnates put on their
prettiest frocks. Classical music was abjured, and
everyu iug was within the comprehension of
everyone. Mr. W. J. Allen's recitations were a
huge success: so was the duet, “ I’ve Wandered in
Dreams,” which resulted in the encore of the
night. Plnsuti’s pretty song, “ The Touch of a
Vanished Hand,” was essayed by a well-meaning
gentleman who had left his voice at home. Messrs.
Glllam and Fairfax were popular, and Miss
Roberts’s playing was precise. The door was
taken by two well-known gentlemen of talent;
the most substantial member of the society on the
one side, and the most shadowy on the other.
• • •
Ye OldeEnglysheFayrehas spread to Wel-
lington, N.Z., where a rather pretentious one was
held in the Drill Shed. Ail the old-fashioned stalls
and costumes were there, as usual; but an addi-
tional feature was the execution of the Maypole
Dance, by amateur dancers, of whom Miss Eva
Ashbott was the May Queen. Another novelty
was the stocks, which were inflicted without trial
or sentence on any one the beadle co iId catch.
An early victim was the Mayor of the city, who
was fined a guinea, and next several members of
the House of Representatives. The stocks, how-
ever, proved a sort of reversible joke, for, on the
captain of the Wellington cadets being impounded,
the corps made a concerted flank movement on
the beadle, and having captured him after a des-
perate resistance, stocked the stately official him-
self, and exacted a big fine,
• • •
On Saturday, Mdme. Charbonnet-Kcller-
mann gives her matinee musicale in the Protestant
Hall. Many pupils will assist; also Mrs. Spencer,
Mdme. Merz, Herr Patek, and Herr Kuster.
Among the Items will be Kowalski’s March Hoh-
groise on eight pianos, Mendelssohn’s Concerto
accompanied by stringed quartette, and Herz’s
Polonaise with stringed accompaniment. After
the concert, Sir Patrick Jennings will present
prize medals, &c.
* • ♦
At present, three sons of the most distin-
guished New Guinea chiefs are on a visit to Cook-
town, and parade the streets in all the glory of
limited costume, frizzed hair, and shell ear-rings.
They were shy at first in the streets, and utterly
puzzled to find no pigs running about, and no rice
or taro fields between the houses and shops. The
local paper says:—“ They have all the intelligence
and immobility of countenance remarkable in
Maoris and Catfres, but, when roused, are demon-
strative and voluble savages indeed I Why, these
men are thorough gentlemen in demeanour and
conversation, and we think the mayor and aider-
men, who have wasted so much labour on
less worthy objects, might show a little attention
to the New Guinea Princes.”
♦ * *
A large soiree was given on Friday by
Mrs. F. A. Smith, aided by her pupil-teachers, at
Fort-street School. Fully300 ladies and gentlemen
were present. Such affairs used to be held, but
for years past have been discontinued, and this
pleasant revival of old customs quite met the idea
of the young ladies of the school, who can't
reasonably be expected to always confine their
attention to little boys. Mrs. Smith received her
guests at the door of the Girls’ Schoolroom, all
being in evening costume, and a drama enacted
by senior pupils filled the first hour. Dancing
commenced at nine, to an Italian string-band, and
was continued till well into the morning. Desks
having been removed, dancers took the main floor
and first terrace, and the reserve stock of partners
looked on from the higher tiers and enjoyed the
pleasures of criticism. All around were crayons,
paintings, needlework, and other specimens ol han-
diwork done by the fair partners, and the place was
lit with portable gas—which emits all the odours of
Araby the blest. Lieutenant W. P. Mulholland.'who
assisted the hostess as general manager excellently,
invited the company about 10 o’clock to refresh-
ments in the Boys’ schoolroom, which we observed
is a long distance from the Girls’, down intricate
passages calculated to confuse any boy who might
try to find his way there. Callaghan spread a good
supper, and while the ladies perched in insecure
but picturesque attitudes on the desks, the Apollo-
like Lieutenant took the gentlemen to where they
could get, say—lemon syrup. The promenades
outsides were as light as day in the white moon-
light, and m-my took advantage of their coolness.
Some charming dresses were seen. A young
lady from East St. Leonards was undoubtedly
pretty in cream plush and nun’s cloth, and her
younger sister, no less so in white and
pearls, and holly sprigs. Three sisters from
Queen-street, namesakes of the hostess, were
seductive in pink. A fine figure from Dawes
Point was displayed in a lovely dress of pale blue,
ottoman brochd and satin, gloves to match. The
young wife of a solicitor wore another full of rich
colour—ruby velvet top, and puffed skirt of bril-
liant crimson. A tall fair pupil, who sang sweetly at
the prize-fund concert, wore a delicate blue
and bows, and short hair d la Recamier. A viva-
cious young instructress wore puffed skirt of
cream nun’s veiling, with body and trimmings of
crushed strawberry satin, a very nice toilet. Three
famous vocalist sisters enjoyed themselves,
the tallest blonde wearing a beautiful brown
satin toilet, eminently suitable to her. The form
of a handsome semi-blonde was set off to the best
by a trained dress of blue corded silk, trimmed
with satin. From Watson’s Bay were a favourite
trio,the elders in blue and flowers, the third dancing
beautifully in a gay blend of cardinal satin and
azure blue. Two tall daughters of the training
school master wore cardinal satins, with skirt
drapings of old gold gauze, whiefi were very ele-
gant; and two daughters of a high education
official wore deep cream silk, with white gauze
paniers, and distinguished themselves by their
charming dancing. A Castlereagh-st. brunette was
pretty, and danced nicely, in black grenadine; and
the fair sisters of a crack cricketer were in light
dresses, and charming in any aspect. A pupil teacher
in dark cornflower blue cashmere w s the envied
recipient of much admiration; and from Balmain
two sisters competed for the palm in the dancing
sphere—one wearing cardinal and blue satin, the
other pink with black velvet stripes. Altogether,
with tne decorations and flowers, the cool resorts,
the geniality which ruled, Mrs. Smith’s soiree was
thoroughly nice, and will be long looked back on
with pleasure by her scholars, teachers, and visi-
tors. We may state that the fund from the pre-
vious concert was devoted entirely to prizes, and
in no way concerned the soiree, which was purely
private hospitality.
* ♦ •
The breaking up of the various large
schools and colleges has caused many social
gatherings, Qa the 13th, the pupils of St. Joseph’s
College, Hunter’s Hill, received their prizes, and
gave a crowd of friends an entertainment of
music, recitations, and a public debate on
morality. St. Vincent’s Ladies’ College gave
an exhibition of art work, also elocutionary
selections to a large gathering. At St. Igna-
tius, Kiverview, the college orchestra per-
formed well, and a debate on the Federation of
Australia took place. Visitors then walked
through the grounds and took refreshments. On
the 11th, the Masonic Hall was crammed »t the
concert for the Fort-street School Prize Fund.
The uniformed cadets made the hall a mass of
colour, and the girls in white relieved it. Barri’s
cantata, “The Messenger,” was given, then a
miscellaneous concert, and the girls executed a
march, after which a Christmas tree was dragged
on, which was a gift to the Children’s Hospital at
the Glebe. Next day, at Fort-street, a show of
work was given, and the prizes were presented.
The girls presented Mrs. Smith, their head-teacher,
with a gold watch and chain ; and Mrs. Conway
received a fitting travelling-bag. The attendance
at this show was very large.
* * *
At Tanrworth lately, Mrs. Nathan Cohen,
having presented her lord and master with a baby.
Mr. Cohen, being a most estimable citizen, and
Mayor of the town as well, his brother civics pre-
sented him with a silver cry-cycle—vulgarly called
a cradle The elite of Gympie and Maryborough
(Q.) struggled in a lawn-tennis match the other
day, at which, the Chronicle says, “ the Gympie
men pulled themselves together, and, by eschew-
ing dangerous refreshments, were recorded victors
by 21 points.” Seems to us this is a little jar.
And there’s a suspicion of whisky in the jar...
Mr. Charles Rodgers, of the Bingera Diamond-
mines, was dinnered on his leaving for Melbourne.
Down the Southern coast, an Episcopalian de-
murred to celebrating a quiet wedding in a pri /ate
house, because the Bishop (?) might take umbrage
at its not being solemnised in the church, and the
young pair were consequently joined by a strange
minister. From which, it seems that if a bride-
groom won’t make a public display of himself and
aride, they can’t command the churchly services...
To-night, a banquet at Tattersall’s Rooms will
mark the 70th birthday of Mr. John Williams,
D.G.M. of the English Masonic Lodge in N.S.W
When they visited Armidale, Lord Rosebery and
Sir Patrick Jennings rode from Mother-of-Ducks
in a ballast-truck. The saloon-carriage wasn’t
there, because someone had blundered— Masonic
Lodge opened at Liverpool, N.S.W. Constitution.
.... Over 200 attended the moonlight Liberal ex-
cursion last week, in the Alathea. They went to
Watson’s, across to Manly, and home. There was
lots of singing, the music of the Eastern Suburbs
Band, and strictest decorum was observed
Mr. T. A. Dibbs, manager of the Commercial Bank,
lately indulged in a curious holiday trip. After
travelling as far up as Fort Bourke, he started
down the Darling and reached Adelaide, overland,
in about six weeks., Mrs. Dibbs accompanied him.
An important wedding at Windsor last week
was that of Mr. Andrew Stanfield (of Sydney) to
Miss Richards (daughter of Mr. B. Richards, J.P.,
of Riverstone Meat Works). Rev. Stretton
tied them in the church, musical service
was given, and over 80 guests sat to break-
fast by the City Catering Company, Dancing
continued all night in the School or Arts Sands’s
free Summer exhibition of pictures, by colonial
artists, will open on the 1st January Rev. C P.
Garnsey, of Christ Church, left for England, in the
Rome, on Friday. His parishioners’ Christmas box
was £435 First subscription ball was to take
place last week in the new public hall, Noumea...
A Highland Society is to be started at Parramatta.
There is scarcely a society of any kind that has
not been started in Parramatta and died... .The
Orient will be flagship on Anniversary Day—Earl
Rosebery will be at Melbourne races on New
Year’s Day.
Hearken o the abominable Podsnappery
of this (we quote a cablegram to the S.M. Herald.
under date London, December J3)“ The (British)
Government are unable to assert that France
should not settle upon unoccupied and unclaimed
territory.” Just fancy the Inconsistency of any
section of Britishers arguing: that France, or any
other country, shouldn’t settle upon unoccupied
and unclaimed territory—when ’tis an historlcfaot
that the blackest stain upon Britain’s honour is the
pilfer-annexo-mania which Pharisaism has induced
into her “ Imperial” (misaionary-cum-“ t ike-care-
of Dowb.” system.
The trial heats for the Punch and Deebl*
trophy, rowed off on Saturday afternoon, lob
much of their interest by the disqualification ol
Messenger. T. Clifford, C. Reynolds, ana J. Clark
started for the first heat, rowed from Gladesville
to Ryde. Clark was outpaced, and Clifford de-
feated Reynolds, after a good race, by some eight
lengths, in 16min. lisec. N. M’Donald, G. Davis,
and H. Wilson showed out for the second, which
was finished in the order named, in 19min. 32sec.
The first and second men in each heat start in the
final, to be rowed on Saturday next. It seems a
mistake, in rowing off heats, not to have the win-
ning man only start in the final. Had three heats
been rowed on Saturday afternoon, the public
would have seen a genuine contest for first place
in each event; whereas, whan three start, and
the first two are qualified for the final, as a
rule one man is entirely out of it early in the
race, and the remaining two are content to merely
paddle over the course. On Saturday last, we
fancy Clifford and Reynolds really raced for
first position; but there could not be much
doubt Davis contented himself with second place.
After so many years of Trickett-Laycock-Rush
matches, it is quite refreshing to see some new
blood on the course, and next Saturday’s race
should prove one of the most open and interest-
ing puiled on the Parramatta for a long time past.
Alfonso the Great has had his first trot
out in his new Uhlan clothes, and the clargy
declare the sun actually sat down to look at him.
His moustache was done up in papers th night be-
fore to make it curl, the Missus used two bottles of
“ Nubian ” over his boots, and the party who does
the State washing slung an extra three-pennorth
of starch into the manly buzzim of Alf.’s shirt.
As a horseman Alfonso is a combination of
Fred. Archer and Chiron, who, if you remember,
was a Past Master Grand of the old Centaurs.
Irreverent people, however, assert that Alf.'s
general “ sit ” strongly reminds them of a master
tailor’s scissors stuck across a five-barred gate.
His Highness rode straight across the river Man-
zanares, upon which Madrid, the Spanish capital,
stands. Wasn’t Cervantes a born fool to die so
young ? What a shriek he could raise to-day over
that fearful passage of the river Manzanares. We
know the puddie well. Many a time in the winter
season have we slept in its bed to keep our-
selves warm. Manzanares is a river not wholly
unknown to fame. For instance, Alexandre
Dumas said that he and his son went
on to a bridge which crosses it and came away dis-
appointed at not being able to find the river. A
German ambassador maintained it was the best
river he had ever seen, as it was navigable either
on horseback or by carriage. It Is furtntr asserted
that when Ferdinand II. determined to take a
walk along the river bed, it was necersary to have
it well watered to lay the dust. When Napoleon s
army entered Madrid, they exclaimeu ** Whatl
has the river run away too?” One of the best
jokes wiis that ef a young man to whom a glass of
water had been fetched during faintness at a bull-
fight—” Give it to the Manzanares; it needs it more
than I do.” However, at times the river, as has
been said, acquires a considerable t readtn. an<i
Philip II. had a bridge of nine aiches oulltacro s
it. Whereupon Madame d’Aulnoz wrote—“When
strangers see the bri ge they begin to laugh; it
seems to them so absurd to find a bridge where
there is no water. One visit >r said he would ad-
vise the city to sell the bridge m order to buy
some water with the prcce'.ds. Corpi dl Baoco 1
Why, our own lovely harbour has never had so
much genius slopped upon it.
Mr. Russell, will hustle
Your teeth, if you bustle;
Withoutjpain, quite a treat.
Corner King and Pitt street.
At the change ot life nothing equals Hop
Bitters to aUw ah trouWw uivmwut thereto. Bee.


HORDERN'S
OK THE
IBriclr±lelcl Hill.
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS in LACE CURTAINS.
1ST These Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers
UACE CURTAINS, 10© PRICES.
Ladies residing in the country can have forwarded to the nearest Railway Station, Free of Charge, a Set of Lace
Curtains. If you like the pattern which is represented in this engraving, cut it out, and we will forward exactly
the same pattern. See future advertisements for other patterns.
LACE CURTAINS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Linen Table Damasks, to match the Curtains. Table Napkins. Linen Diapers. Embroidered Table Covers.
Mofq itto Nets. Strip* d an 1 Plain Window Union. Examine carefully the engraving- of our
“LACE CURTAINS.”
I
'V
i.-W
£
m
m
8
©
e
► :■
e
►
iAv.
The Treasury, New South Wales.
S7th November, 1883.
TO ENGINEERS AND CONTRATOKS.
Construction of Elevated Cable Tramway,
TENDERS will be received at the Treasury
until noon of THURSDAY', the 27th of
December, from persons willing to contract for the
construction of a Cable Tramway, at Spring Cove,
Quarantine Station, North Head, in accordance
with plans and specifications, and under general
conditions to be seen at the Treasury on arid after
the 7th proximo.
The route of the proposed Tramway will be
pointed out by the Officer in Charge of the Quar-
antine Station.
Each tender must beaccompanied by a Treasury
receipt, acknowledging the deposit of £200, to be
held at the Treasury as security for the due per-
formance of the Contract.
Tenders to be addressed to the Under Secretary
for Finance and Trade, and endorsed “ Tender for
Tramway at Quarantine Station.”
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
Medicated Vapour Baths
34oCrownS t Sydney
-cprcs/ra R
FORBAD LEI -oUNNFKUII0NAL
SKIM BLOOD DISEASES Etc,
To Mr. Cooper.—I wish to make known the
benefit of your treatment in ray case. I had bad
legs for two years, and could get no relief any-
where; you cured them in less than a month.
R. T. Eastwat (Eastway Brothers),
George-street.
To Mr. Cooper.—I can scarcely find words to
thank you for the remarkable cure you have
effected in my case. I have suffered with bad
legs for o 10 years; I have tried many doctors,
and taken everything advertised to cure; but I
grew worse and sick of trying. My age is over 60.
My legs are both healed up, and I am quite well.
Mrs. Black,
317, Elizabeth-stret t.
H. W. C. has voluntary testimony that would fill
a newspaper, and he has n jt been in the colony
twelve months.
340, CROW N-S TREET.
Opposite Reservoir.
Price ; 12s. 6d., 15s., 17s. 6d. the pair.
ONE ONLY ADDRESS:—
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS,
| LACE CURTAINS | 668 BRICKFIELD HILL. | LACE CURTAINS )
jy Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
it. ALL!«CO.’S Ira Wins ui Ssirii Sira ul Mils,
Agents for—
Messrs. TRUMAN, HANBURY, BUXTON & CO.,
Brewers, Rurton-on-Trent ;
„ JOHN ROBERTSON & SONS,
Dundee ;
CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.
Messrs. A. C. MEUKOVV X CO.,
Cognac;
E. & J. Bn iiiCE o
“Uight Spanning Trvr ‘ A e :
Messrs. MUNZER & SPANN,
Boruea;;*, ' larcts :
The Doc c _• Montebello Champagne, 8/Ay, France
The Cnarout • V meyurd Proprietors, Charente.
London Agents: Messrs. Arthur Allt & Co., Wormwood Wormwood-street, E.C.
IT CONQUERS PAIN.—HE ADVISES HIS
PERSONAL FRIENDS.
“ Glen View, Darlinghurst,
“ August 17, 1883.
“ Messrs. Publishers Bulletin, Sydney.
“ Dear Sirs,—It gives me great pleasure to say, in
the most unqualitied manner, that I have found
St. Jacobs Oil the best preparation for Rhematism,
Gout, and other pains, that I have ever used or
known. A member of my family was suffering
from a severe attack of rheumatic gout both in the
hands and feet. The pain was most excruciating.
1 suggested her using St. Jacobs Oil, and am pleased
to say the result was of a most satisfactory charac-
ter. After one or two applications the pain en-
tirely left, and up to the present have had no
return of the trouble. I look on St. Jacobs Oil
as a universal panacea for all kinds of aches and
pains. I have advised many of my personal friends
to give it a trial, and have heard from them that
nothing they had overused did them so much good.
It is, without doubt,the only Household Remedy
of modern times, and I shall always keep a bottle
within reach.
“ I remain, dear Sirs, yours faithfully,
“ J. R. Dbewbtt,”
NOTE.—Mr. Drewett is the well-known town
buyer for Messrs. S. Hoffnung and Company, Pitt-
street, one of the largest and prominent firms in
all Australia.
HOW A USELESS ARM WAS RESTORED IN
TEN MINUTES, or the experience of Edward L.
Green, Esq., Government Sheriff at Auckland,
N.Z.
“Auckland, New Zealand, August 16,1883.
“ Messrs. Publishers Bulletin. Sydney.
“ Dear Sirs,—I have great pleasure in stating I
had occasion to use St. Jacobs Oil for an old injury
I received to my shoulder in June, 1882, and from
that date until July 10th last, I could not use my
arm, and found great difficulty in writing. 1 ap-
plied to medical men and used all sorts of liniments,
hut without any benefit; but I had not used St.
Jacobs Ou more than ten minutes before I felt the
beneficial effect, and l can work with my saw or
spade as well as ever i did, ana can strongly recom-
mend this oil to any on, suffering from muscular
ailments. You can make wnai use you please of
this letter for the benefit of others.
* I remain, dear Sirs, yours,
“ Edward L. Green, Sheriff."
St. Jacobs 01 the great German semedy, con-
quers pain. Jjold by Druggists, Chemists, and
Medicine DeaK» throughout the wf>rld. Price in
New South Wakes, half-a-orown a bottle. Direc-
tions for using in 11 languages.
ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney’
Wholesale Depot for N.S.W.
TEACHERS’ MUTUAL INSURANCE ASSO-
T10N.
The ANNUAL MEETING will be held at the
Training School, Fort-street, Sydney, on SATUR-
DAY, 23nd inst, at 11 a.m.
A. ADAMS, Hon. Sec.
M
IBS LOLO DE GLORO
Disengaged.
DRAMA, COMEDY, and BURLESQUE.
I N
166 Dowling-sLrcet,
W oolloomooloo.
Maid, Wife, and Mother :
A BOOK FOR WOMANKIND.
CONTAINING matters of a medical nature,
highly interesting to the sex. Post free, r i
secure cover, for 2s. 6d., money order or N.i-'.W.
stamps. To be had only from the publisher,
MRS. BE ARCH OFT,
Box (8j Q.F.O., Sydney.
NohmaWST
v,Li', LUM isfp,'
w*** ♦ TATTERS ALL'S
NRW i ‘ AR’S DAY.
5000 viemtjgi i m ios. each.
wo se arate draw-
oigs, and each ticket
'Vi 1 i—i vo two chancci
u i .it/ draw two
* 1, t .ij.m
\7 1 tor Montgomerj r ,
; 4,«.| Lojf TO, G.P.O.,
Unfortunate Adolphus.
A CHISTMAS LEGEND.
Adolphus, deriding in a Sydney bank,
And of that age when Love first learns
To dominate the heart, for many a month
Had all its pangs endured—young Ernestine
The object of his passion. She was the daughter
Of his father’s friend, but thought
But lightly of Adolphus; he was not
The olerkllng of her choice, for Reginald,
A comely youth, and in another bank,
Had won her love.
The meek Adolphus, tortured In his mind
To find a means of gaining her regards,
Bethoughthlm, when the Christmas time was near,
A card of rare and chaste design to send
To Ernestine. Said he: “ Such things are dear
To maidens’ hearts, and she, perchance,
Will cherish my poor gift, and think of him
Whose modest weekly stipend purchased it.”
Then he sent the card; yet never thought
Upon its back his autograph to place.
And Ernestine, among the many score
Of greetings that the o’er-worked postman
brought,
Did best eseeem this one—this chaste design;
And felt that card so sweet
Must surely come from Reginald.
So when her love—who, of a truth,
Sad sent no card—did bear her tell
ow joyed she was that Reg. had not forgot
His Ernestine, he kissed the lios
That 'vited his caress, and murmured—
*• Sweetheart mine, I thought ’twould please
Thee well.”
Mick Simmons' Tobacco Box.
One of the neatest and most go-ahead establish-
ments in the tobacconists’ line in this city—or, for
the matter of that, the colonies—is Mick Simmons’
celebrated Can’t B Beat Tobacco Box, at the
Exchange, Haymarket. The exterior view is
good, affording an excellent contrast to the other
buildings; and, within, the place presents a most
business-iike aspect. No better designation than
the Tobacco Box could have been chosen. It’s
really one great Tobacco Box, which Can’t B Beat
for display or variety of stock. A handsome
counter extends all round the shop, and neat
shelves rise from floor to ceiling; and, when it is
remembered that almost all these shelves are
stored each week with fresh supplies of tobacco,
cigars, &c., the extent of the trade can easily be
imagined. Five assistants are kept constantly
employed attending to customers. There are ten
thousand people in this city who know that
Mick Simmons has built up his trade on the
genuine basis of unsurpassed excellence of tbe
weed which he sells. It was four years’
genuine work before Mr. Simmons was able to
obtain direct from America the special line of to-
baccos, supplied to him only in Australia, and
which has been fitly denominated as Mick Sim-
mons’ Can’t B Beat. This brand of tobacco, every
cake or fig of which bears tbe trade mark of the
house, is made from picked American leaf, and is
regarded by the American trade newspapers as
the very best turned out of the great Virginian
factories. Mr. Simmons has won ail classes of
trade to his house; and as he has recently arranged
for larger supplies, a yet bigger development of
his go-ahead establishment may be looked for.
Mr. Simmons will be glad to receive a sample
order from any person resident even in the most
distant part of the colony or Queensland, and he is
prepared to deal liberally with county storekeepeis
who desire to vend tbe great Can’t B Beat tobacco.
Mr.Slmmons has a large store and factory in Sussex-
street, only a few hundred yards from the Tobacco
Box. Here, over £2000 worth of genuine Ameri-
can tobacco (Can’t B Beat) Is stored, and here like-
wise is carried on the manufacture of cigars, but
particularly cigarettes—the two famous brands,
“ Bound to Win,” and “ Four Flags.” The former,
which is made of picked Virginia gold leaf, the
very best leaf in the world, is an Immensely suc-
cessful article, and its mania lac tu re gives employ-
ment to a number of neatly-dressed, intelligent
girls. The wrappers and labels of these two
classes of cigarettes are the nobbiest things
turned out of any colonial printing office. There
is a variety of new machinery and appliances at
work on the premises, the whole being driven by
a neat and powerful gas engine. These works
show the extent of Mr. Simmon’s trade—which he
maintains is the most extensive and go-ahead in
the colonies.
The few choice spirits who constitute
what wo may aall the medical jury of the country
were right in their verdict about Wolfe’s
Schnapps, and Time, the greatest and highest
tribunal, confirms the decree.
Misery is a mild word to describe the mis-
chief to body and mind caused by habitual con-
stipation. The regular use of Ayer’s Cathartic
Pills, in mild duses, will restore the torpid viscera
to healthy activity. Try them, and be cured.
No lady ever taints her handkerchief with
a coarse perfume. Indeed, the relined of both
•sexes are always critical in this particular. Hence
it is that Murray and lanman's Florida Water
h> so uu vcisauy pieierred by persons oi correct
taste to ail other toilet waters and extracts.
Victorian State school teachers are doing
their level best to keep up the reputation for
liveliness” which for some time past they have
enjoyed. The other day a member of the fra-
ternity, named Hanagan, had the honour of ap-
pearing as co-respondent in a divorce suit. Mr.
Flanagan conducted his own case—unsuccessfully.
Ciicket. —The Cootamundrans, in the Cox
Cup match on Saturday, on their ground, scored
301 runs, Including eight byes, against the
Juneeites. Murdoch batted in something like his
old form for his 130. He was splendidly caught at
long leg, O’Donnell (“the Cootamundra stone-
waller”), who was in for five hours, carried
his bat out for 85. These two put on 170 runs
before they were parted. Dorman played nicely for
his 37, as also did Plunkett for 11. The visitors
bowled and fielded very well. They tried seven
trundlers.


XX
XX
XX
11
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
if
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
11
11
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
il
XX
THIS
Present their COMPLIMENTS, and desire to heartily thank you for past favours.
WISHING* TTOXJ
“A
J
and A HAPPY NEW TEAR,”
They at the same time respectfully ask that the past may only be an earnest of the
future, and that they may have the privilege of your patronage during 1884,
when they will do their utmost to deserve it.
Business done at strictly Wholesale Prices.
XX
> \
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xx
XX
xx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxx
New Goods.
Beautiful New Goods for this
Christmas season. Goods suitable for
Christmas Presents of every descrip-
tion, Lists of which appear in our
New Book, the Christmas number
of our “Bulletin, or Manifesto.” As
is generally admitted, a present is
most acceptabln when it is both orna-
mental and useful: and perhaps in
no other house of business can a more
fitting class of goods for presents be
found than in a General Furnishing
Warehouse.
Anything required by residents in
the country, and not contained in our
Lists, or kept in stock, we shall be
happy to procure for them, and for-
ward by earliest opportunity.
Visitors.
We are always pleased to see visitors.
Many persons are diffident about com-
ing m to look round without making
a purchase. This need not be the case.
W e are only too glad to find citizens
and visitors from the country take
sufficient interest in our exhibits to
come and spend a little time in exa-
mining the extensive display it is
always our effort and pleasure to
maintain. Everything being marked
in plain figures, visitors have the
opportunity, if so disposed, of pur-
chasing anything without troublesom e
questioning, and the constant attend-
ance of an assistant.
Our Factory.
Although of insignificant exterior
our Cabinet and Bedding Factory, at
Cowper Wharf, Woolloomooloo Bay,
is the seat of a growing industry. It
fives constant employment to be-
ween 60 and 70 hands, and, with the
aid of machinery, turns out an extra-
ordinary amount of work. The great
value it proves to be to our business
can readily be understood. Through
its assistance we are enabled to sell at
the lowest possible prices; for the
goods come to us at first cost, there is
no middle person to pay, no second
profit to be made.
Orders toy Post.
Persons residing at a distance, or any
to whom a personal visit of inspection
would be inconvenient-desirous of
leaving the selection of goods to us,
may rely upon a faithful attention to
their wishes and interest in the selec-
tion.
Our Lists are arranged with a view
to facilitate the selection of suitable
goods, so that, if desired, a House can
be completely and judiciously Fur-
nished without the trouble of a per-
sonal visit.
Campbell Brothers,
IMPORTERS ANU MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms:
Royal Furnishing Arcade, 426
George-street.
Manufactory:
No. 5 Cowper Wharf, Woolloomooloo
Bay, Sydney.
The Christmas Number of our New-
Book, “ a Bulletin, or Manifesto
is now ready. Post free, everywhere.
House Furnishing Lists.
Since House Furnishing Lists were
first introduced at the Royal Furnish-
ing Arcade, they have steadily in-
creased in public favour, until, now,
they are almost Indispensable, inso-
much that our business <*ould not well
be carried on without them. They are
of great assistance to buyers, and save
considerable time in the transacting
of business. Being suggestive, they
are sought after by intending buyers,
and enable the thoughtful and econo-
mically disposed to base their calcu-
lations, and arrive at the exact cost of
what they are likely to require. The
‘•New Book” contains our £15, £25.
£36, £50, £70. £100, £200, and £300 lists,
carefully revised. The first shows how
a married couple can, if necessary,
commence housekeeping with an out-
lay of only £15. The last shows how a
house can be furnished really nicely
for £300. Our business is, of course,
not confined simply to these lists; on
the contrary, we are prepared to give
estimates, and furnish throughout to
almost any extent. Persons arriving
in Sydney, and taking apartments,
may select any room or rooms from
these lists; may come and choose the
articles, and get comfortably settled
within a few hours.
Our Upstairs Showroom.
The variety of choice articles in this
department is surprising; and every
facility is afforded persons, desirous of
purchasing Christmas, W' dding, bii th-
dav or other gifts, to make careful
and suitable selections. The plainly
marked prices are of great assistance
in this respect. House furnishers will
here find samples of all kinds of bed-
steads set up to choose from, at pn< ej
fr m 12s. 6d. to£lG. Theele tro plated
ware forms a ■ important feature i
this ro. m. The grand di-play of noble
lustres and artistically designed orna-
ment- for which the Continent of
Europe is justly celebrated, cannot
f ail to delight the beholder; the pleas-
ing variety of white and coloured rut
crystal, intermingled with Bohemian
and other rich glassware, when col-
lected together in this way, will give
some idea of the rapid progress this
charming industry has made during
the last few years. A few superior
Suites of Drawing-room Furniture,
elegant Sideboards. Canterbury's,
Whatnots, Work Tables, &e., are
ranged about, giving substance to the
show. M
Campbell Brothers,
royal furnishing ARCADE,
426, George-st., Sydney.
(Next the Royal Hotel.)
A Special Christmas Season
AT THE
Royal Furnishing Arcade
CAMPBELL BROTHERS
I furnishing!
r7M*r*xPE7i
mmsnm
ROYAL
ma
THE ROYAL
FURNISHING ARCADE
subterranean
BARGAIN ROOM.
TEfonS:
n
7J ira
WMWi
Everything Marked is Plain figures,
AT THE
LOWEST NET CASH PRICE.
Printed and Published by “The Bulletin” Newspaper Company (Limited), 21 Pit 6-street, New South
