

THE
BULLETIN
Vol. I.—No. 26.—New Series
SATURDAY, YOYKMHEU 10, 1888.
Price—6d.
THE CIRCULATION OF ”THE BULLETIN’
IS NOW MORE THAN DOUBLE THAT 01
ANT OTHER WEEKLY NEWSPAPER US
N.S.W.-THAT OF ONE VERY OLD ESTAB-
LISHED PAPER, WHICH EXCEEDS “ THE
BULLETINS” BY ABOUT ONE-FIFTH,
ALONE EXCEPTED. THE CIRCULATION
OF “THE BULLETIN” IS THE SECOND
GREATEST AMONG THE WEEKLIES OF
AUSTRALASIA.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1883.
Contempt
Since the ex-<Chief Justice, supported by
occult influences and canvassings on the
part of other “ distinguished ” persons, has
succeeded in procuring a majority of
members of the Legislative Council to
reject the Bill framed by the responsible
Ministers of the country, in accordance with
a definite and obviously prevailing, if not
unanimous, desire of the people, to regulate
proceedings in oases of contempt of Court,
it becomes advisable to survey the whole
situation, and ascertain with as much preci-
sion as possible how the case of the public
stands. Sir Alfred Stephen correctly
stated that from time immemorial English
Judges have claimed the right to punish
persons who treated their tribunals with
contempt. This power is derived from no
coded law or enactment. It has ever been
an unwritten law, a lex terroe. There is no
dispute respecting this historical review.
But Sir Alfred scarcely appreciated the
significance of his own demonstration; and
t was not pressed upon him by any subse-
quent speaker. When tne foundation of
a iy practice is veiled in the mists of anti-
quity, the circumstance should surely
operate—not as a reason for devout faith in
that practice, but as an inducement to
special investigation. It is a foundation
which no one knows anything about, save
that it is very old. This is certainly not a
reason for unquestioning confidence. No
modern engineer would run a railway over
a bridge built in the time of the Romans,
king its stability on trust, simply because
t e Romans generally put good substantial
]y° r k info their bridges, and many of
eir structures remain unimpaired at the
present time. A practical man would
es °l Ve bo investigate for himself, and
Bee w bat sort of foundation it really
as—especially if a strong and almost
[versa! opinion was current that the
mr, however excellent and applicable
® ay have been in relation to the
n uions which prevailed when it was de-
fied, was not adapted for the altered
of the present day. Sir
p. ERED Stephen, however, appeared com-
thaf 6 satisfied that, when he had shown
Sun he °f the power exercised by our
quitv 6^ 6 ourt fudges is of a hoary anti-
Its „ bad unanswerably demonstrated
g lr . 06 len °6< It is, perhaps, natural that
wfie LFREr> Bllo uid cherish the delusion that
j g . a tb * n S' or a man, has outlived its era
'Evested with a peculiar excellence. w
To Tnnrittft * * * P
that a j ® er m en, however, it must seem W
fo r f n ‘ nB titution, respecting the reasons w
eoord & 'which there is nothing on W
of a u' staQ d B really on the most doubtful, vi
® < iene« )aBeS ’ and * 8 wortb just so much con- tt
treah may . be given to ic by entirely 8
tosteafi y n P re j u d l ced investigations. Thus, at
anh aoce Pbing as an axiom that it is ht
Pong. . Peeper that Judges should have re
*° n * for l i libate Proceedings against per- oc
or the A\ ? uoes gainst their own dignity st
Cou rtB and independence of their hi
eood to a 6 ° rd * nary naan of to-day will pro- w
®gue the matter out de novo , and ua
according to the circumstances of the age
in which he lives. And, in considering the
subject, he will scarcely trouble himself with
such considerations as appeared to afford
infinite comfort and satisfaction to Sir
Alfred Stephen; such as that the power
was possibly exercised by the supreme tri-
bunals of the Anglo-Saxons. Sir Alfred
might just as well quote the unquestioned
antiquity of the lex tdlionts as an argument
lor its revival. He appears to bold the
decidedly unoanonical opinion that you can
with propriety put new wine into old bottles.
For our own part, we should not be im-
pressed were it hinted that the power had
been used by the Druids. All we are con-
cerned to settle is whether it is a practice
vhich may advantageously be revived in the
iresent day in this colony of New South
iVales, for the behoof of th® sort of men
vho get seats on our Supreme Court Bench.
Ve have used the word “ revived ” ad-
dsedly Sir Alfred Stephen’s speech for
he Judges occupied over six columns of the
1 M. Herald, and the erudite speaker had,
coording to his own preordiurn, made ex-
laustive —he used the word “fatiguing”—
esearch in order to leave no ground un-
overed. Yet he failed to show a single in-
tanoe in which a Judge of Great Britain
ad for centuries past exercised the power
rhiohhe sought to have perpetuated for the
se of th© Judges of this little colony.
Mr. Darlby smashed Sir Alfred’s argu-
ment in this respect with facts which that
ex-Judge could not controvert. There has
not been one single instance where English
Judges had originated a prosecution for
libel on one of themselves. There is no such
outrage recorded, except—mark the excep-
tion—in two oases. Here, then, are prece-
dents for the proceedings of our Judges—
those Judges of whom, according to Sir
Alfhed Stephen, we should all be so proud
Yes, precedents in the Star Chamber!—that
institution so infamous that it helped to
bring about a revolt of the whole nation
against a dynasty—that institution which i
defiles the page of English history that
records it. Sir Alfred and his proteges and
his followers are welcome to their prece-
dents. We wish him joy of them.
* * *
Sir Alfred Stephen’s failure to adduce
other than unsavoury precedents did not
extend to a failure to find expressions of
contentment with the power so charily
employed. He was able to quote addresses
by several Judges upholding the utility of
the power to originate proceedings in cases
not only of contempt in the face of a Court
but of constructive contempt—that is to say,
contempt outside the Court. But there is i
nothing singular in this. The singularity is ;
that no reputable Judge has ever exercised !
the power. It would be strange, indeed, if
that udges uniformly rose so superior to the
has ° rdinar y van ities of human nature as to
’•liah depreoate an advantage peculiar to their
’ j order. Where Sir Alfred did again fail,
inch bowever * waß to adduce a single expression
ot content with the existence of such un-
P paralleled and unconstitutional power from
eoe- anyone but a Judge. He did not even
Sir a *'* em P*' Bbow that the power had been
. approved by the voice of the English people,
that records that the nation revolted
to against onoe * b ub nowhere is it chronicled
tion that the nation ever repented or changed its
, . min d. As a matter of fact, the practice is
hat repugnant to the braditions and spirit of our
and raCe ’ aDd abhorrent to the feelings of every
I freeborn man—with the exception, it seems,
I of a handful of irresponsible parvenus who
conceive that they are linked with the Judges
I in a design to foist upon a country endowed
I with free institutions and inspired with de-
I moeratio sentiments a new, tawdry, and
spurious aristocracy. The laboured conten-
tion that it is incorrect to allege that the
Judges do not act as prosecutors, counsel,
and aentenoers in their own cause when they
I instigate, hear, and decide the penalty in
charges of contempt, is almost too puerile
for serious rejoinder. Take our own case in
this colony. We have five Judges. These
five men alone in the whole community
possess the power to challenge by arbitrary
| methods criticisms of their conduct in their
public capacity. Their advantage belongs
to their caste—a caste of five individuals—
I s’’ and Tf E. feel aggrieved,
A., 8., C., and D. take action. If A. be
I irritated, he hauls his adversary before 8.,
I C., D., and E. The “ scratoh-me-scratch
I thee ” process could not have a more intense
exemplification. And, in the very case
under notice, it was the aggrieved Judge’s
own henchman, his associate, a sort of legal
valet, who laid the information. To pretend
that Judges do not preside in their own
causes is disingenuous and a sheer sophistry,
veiled by a mere conversion of terms or
V play upon words. A Judge is not arbitrator
of his °wn cause; but his brother Judges,
v who do not know but that they may beoon-
s I oorned in an identical affair on their own
** account, are the arbitrators. And we have
the authority of one of our own Judges for
believing that their disposition is, without
, even a sense of shame such as would induce
them to conceal the feeling of partisanship,
to “stick to a brother Judge ” I
• • •
No one will argue that It is not desirable
that the supreme tribunals of Justice shall
I be maintained in the most reverend respect.
I But real respect—not a hollow appearance;
not the shadow; not a pretence maintained
by fictions and compelled by dread of violence
and injustice. To insist on an outward aspect
of deference and satisfaction, where there is
real revolt and abhorrence, is but to sit on
the safety-valve of an boiler in order to
conceal the indications that there is steam
gap^erated * Such a proceeding silences
the hissing, but ensures a violent explosion
in the long run. Nero or Caracalla could
command a humbler attitude of deference
compel a completer silence, and render
prudent a more servile adulation than anv
Court will ever be able to procure
by the most licentious exercise of
In* usurped s-nd ftnomaJous power But
the severity of the discipline to" which
they subjected the community of their day
merely accelerated the fall of the Imperii
form of government. It is not in human
nature to really reverence aught that is not
essentially reverend. And inversely, al-
though it may happen to an individual to
live his life misunderstood and treated with
contumely while he deserved esteem, any
institution of abiding and persistent nobility
is certain to secure the admiration and
| aespeet of mankind.
THE HON. JAMES WHITE, M.L.C.


Goughs and Colds.
THK Best Cure for the above la Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
tw PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6a. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Diputo
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
C. W, ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET,
where you can obtain for
©d._
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of auoh a Quality that eannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
la now open In
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT ef AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
Thb most Wholesome of all Beverage*.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
4a. 6d. per bottle.
CLYMBLISH WHISKY,
6a. per bottle.
VBRDBILHO,
Lovely White Wine, la. 6d. pot bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
la. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
Sa. per bottle.
HBNNBSSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6a. 6d, per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street. Sydney.
The choicest Australian
cards
floral
are those published by
Messrs. TURNER and HENDERSON,
and only
To be OBTAINED at their ESTABLISHMENT
In Hunter-street.
They are very chaste and lovely, and can be had
with or without Christmas mottoes. All have
botanical names at foot of card.
Price, Is. each ; 10s. per dozen, post free.
P
RESENTS. PRESENTS. PRESENTS.
TURNER and HENDERSON
are now opening
CHOICE GOODS
of every description suitable for the
Coming Season.
Showroom on First Floor.
T
HE ROYAL ARCADE CONSULTATION.
SUMMER CUP of 1883.
3000 Shares, at £ 1 each .. .. £3OOO.
First Horse will receive £lOOO, Second Horse £**’»
Third Horse £2OO ; Starters will divide
Non-starters £350.
Early application requested (by letter only).
Persons making application for shares are re-
quested to register their letters to insure sw
delivery of same, and to enclose addressed enve-
lope for reply.
Address—
THE ROYAL ARCADE CONSULTATION,
Care of
H. SOLTAN, Junior,
Royal Arcade,
Sydney.
Note.—Application Box at 23 Royal Arcade,
Sydney.
AIR-TIGHT SHOW CASE COHPf-
-67 GEORGE STREET WEST.
Air-tte ht
SHOP,
, , ■ 1
SHOW
OFFICE,
CABM
AND
ifip%y
londo*
Hotel-bar
pricks.
FITTERS.
Contractors to tho wmvj AV v——•»
Designs and Estimates Furnished on appho*
The Rates of Subscription ro 1'he Bulletin
are—For one year, 34s.: half-year, 12b. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—In advance.
The Advertising Rat?* are 5s. per Inch;
special positions In ihe paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per ineh.
Discounts are allowed on coutl nous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as f <Uows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 18 .unsecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive Insertions,
15 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 25 per
cent. No allowance can a le on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
bo made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
Who is there that loves not and reveres
not Justioe, that Divine abstraction ? There
lives not a villain, sunk in th© deepest
abasement and mental darkness, who does
not instinctively assume an attitude of
adoration when Justice presents itself to
his mind. But the human ministers at the
shrine of the goddess expect too much, and
arrogate too much. It is ever thus. Justice
has her little Popes who require that every-
body shall kiss their toe. It is too late in the
day to start fresh pretensions of the kind.
Courts of Justice have been organized too
long. There is about them too much of that
flavour of antiquity which Sir Alfred
Stephen worships so affectionately. Like
every other human institution, they fall
into corruption with age. Contempt of
Court! It is not the incident of a day. It
is a universal crime—or virtue. It may be
questioned whether there exists any insti-
tution so universally contemned and ab-
horred as so-called Courts of Justice. De-
signed originally to accommodate and
soften disputes, they foster and aggravate
them. They are a terror to society. They
are the scourge of peaceable men, and
the resource of knaves. The greater their
pretensions the smaller is their efficiency.
One may feel tolerably confident of obtain-
ing substantial plain justice in a Police
Court, but a suit in a Supreme Court is a
bewildering speculation. Justice should be
cheap, simple, certain, and expeditious. In
the Courts which have embezzled its name,
it is costly, complicated, dubious, and pro-
tracted. In modern Courts of Law, the
throne which should be occupied by the
goddess is usurped by a notorious courtesan,
who must be approached purse in hand.
And the functionaries make grimace of
blindness, and pretend they see nothing of
the prostitution and the fees; or, being the
wisest of men, have no comprehension of
the significance of the situation. Justice!
Every city and country resounds with im-
peachments of the foul substitute which has
played cuckoo to her. The literature of the
age is saturated with satire and denuncia-
tion levelled against the imposition. It Is a
goodly time, truly, to insist that the hand of
arbitrary authority shall be clapped upon
every mouth which opens—that no suitor
shall dare to cry aloud his bitterness of soul
in the streets, and no man write a protes-
tation.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Australia and New Guinea.
A Scotchman once made a steam-engine. It was
marvellously ingenious ; but one defect —one
trifling error—somewhat impaired its usefulness.
It wouldn’t go. In this particular It resembles the
New Guinea annexation scheme. Priests, press,
and politicians say Australia will not be safe, nor
Papuans cared for, till the big Island is ours. Then
public meetings are advertised to strengthen the
Governments’ hands ; but the people will not
budge, and so the speeches fall as flat as one of
Bladen’s poems. The latest “ annexation ”
news comes through the Morning Post, in the
shape of a letter from “A Well-known Australian
Colonist, formerly a member of the Legislative
Assemblies of Australia,” to the Earl of Derby.
It Is delicious. The “ Well-known Colonist ” says:
“ If the rank and file of this [the English Radical]
party could only realise what the colonies are,
what they have done and are doing for the great-
ness of England, . . . the objection of the
Radical party to the extension of the power and
limits of the Empire . . . would be laughed to
scorn.” On Lord Derby’s reading the letter, he
sent for the Agents-General, when the following
conversation took place :
LordD.: “I have sent for you, gentlemen, to
beg you to remove some slight misconception
under which I, in common with most Englishmen,
at present labour. You have, of course, seen a
well-known colonist’s letter in the Morning Post.
What I want you to do is to explain briefly what
the colonies have done, and are prepared to do, for
the Empire. I shall commence with you, Vic-
toria.”
V.: “Well, your Lordship, we stopped assisted
immigration, anyway, and helped trade along by
clapping a 25 per cent, duty on English goods.”
N.S.W.: “We allow your goods in almost free;
but as we do the same for all other nations, it is no
great compliment.”
N.Z.: “We coveted the Waikato Valley, and so
ran you into a few millions’ expense to get it for
us. Then we abused you like pickpockets for
taking your troops away, and accused your soldiers
of everything, Including brutality and cowardice.
Afterwards we voted a high tariff to keep you
from swamping us with pauper products.”
Q.: “We have more land than we can utilise
during the next century; but we wanted more,
and by means of a magistrate and a couple of
policemen endangered your relations with power-
ful States.”
8.A., Tab., and W.A.: “We did nothing in par-
ticular, but looked on and lay round for a chance
of anything that was going.”
All: “We forced you to annex Fiji, and then
declined to pay half the Governor’s salary
amongst us.”
Lord D, : “ Well, gentlemen, I see that, so far,
you have been of great service to the Empire
from a commercial standpoint; but what are you
prepared to do in the event of a great war ? ”
Alt. ; “ Well, of course, we expect you to see all
about that. We have a few explosives and a few
hundred soldiers in Melbourne and Sydney, and
these, assisted bv a strong English fleet, would
make a good stand.”
LORD D.: “Then you do not propose to raise
troops or seamen for service in Europe, or contri-
bute in any way to the expenses of prolonged
hostilities ?”
All: “ We might raise a few thousands to buy
lint and fruit for the wounded, but you could not
expect us to go much further. As for taxing our-
selves to pay for a war in which we had no voice,
the unreasonableness of this will at once be appa-
rent to yourlordship.”
Lord D.: “ Thanks, gentlemen. I now see you
are powerful auxiliaries, both in peace and war.
I shall look into this New Guinea affair again.
Good morning. (Aside) Well, of all the cheek,”
&c. &c.
The Annexation Humbug.
A N.S.W. colonist, at present in London, has
to the Times stating that the Colonial
Ministers are working up a factitious pretence of
agitation on the subject of Pacific annexation,
and that the people of Australia are indifferent
about the matter. We do not see how a colonist
now in England can know anything about the
matter, unless he be just arrived there fi om Aus-
tralia, or has been an industrious reader of a very
large circle of colonial journals, provincial as
well as metropolitan. Several of the largest
metropolitan journals have permitted themselves
to be influenced by the display of Governmental
pomposity in reference to this subject. But
the general run of the newspapers, reflect-
ing in the aggregate the sense of the
colonists, have either ignored the topic or
referred to it with cool indifference. Private per-
sons can readily satisfy themselves by the ordi-
nary resource of miscellaneous conversation and
comparing of impressions, whether the idea of
annexing the Pacific Islands excites the communi-
ties in which they mingle. We have ourselves been
unable to discover that people generally are par-
ticularly concerned about the matter. In Queens-
land, the Premier made a sensational dash at New
Guinea, just before a general election. In Victoria,
sundry shire councils have responded favourably
to an invitation to strengthen the hands of Mr.
Service in his representations anent the New
Hebrides. But this is all. Annexation appears
fudge. Australians have more than half Aus-
tralia to annex, if the term be permitted to
have an industrial as well as a political signifi-
cance. The argument that annexation of all Poly-
nesia is requisite to strengthen our position is
a most debateable one. A nation or a community
which is firmly established—as we are not yet, and
will require all our energies to become—in a con-
tinent as large as Europe, and which, in addition,
holds a group (New Zealand) answering very fairly
to the British Isles, can surely dominate the quar-
ter of the globe in which it exists. What a farce it
would be to contend that a nation which held all
Europe, and Great Britain and Ireland, could not
feel safe unless it possessed and brought under its
rule Iceland, Sardinia, Corsica, the Azores, the
Channel Islands, and the lonian Archipelago.
And how doubly a farce if half of Europe,
and that half the most fertile and rich in mineral
wealth, remained undeveloped. If we can’t
maintain our supremacy in the South Seas
when our strength is concentrated, how Is it to
be hoped that we shall do so by dissipating
our energies and distributing our risks over Poly-
nesia ? The forthcoming Conference proposes to
mix up two totally distinct questions. The first of
those is whether the British race should lay claim
to every unappropriated bit of land in the Pacific.
The second is whether France or other nations is
to be permitted to convert some of these isles into
Alsatias by depositing in them the human sewer-
age which ever old country is troubled to dispose
of. The latter question is concrete and vital.
Much as we hate war, we would assent to the pro-
position that it would be necessary even to fight
rather than submit to such a wanton infliction.
But while it would be justifiable to resist the
lodgement of a camp of desperados near our fron-
tiers, it would be a miserable spirit of monopoly
and narrowness which would refuse to contem-
plate even with satisfaction the settlement of colo-
nies of decent neighbours in our vicinity,
though these neighbours were of different race
and spoke a different language.
The Y. M. C. A.
The foundation-stone of the Young Men’s Chris-
tian Association’s new building was laid the other
day with considerable ceremony. We are not
enamoured of institutions, nor impressed by
names. The former are apt to fossilize, and the
latter have too often cloaked shameful departures
from the sense they are employed to convey. Still,
we have a strong liking for Young Men’s Chris-
tian Associations, in some of their leading aspects.
Their chief Influence has been for good. They
have furnished a rallying-place for young men
who have desired to stand shoulder to shoulder in
resisting evil promptings, and in striving for high
achievments. We prefer Christian young men to
flash young men, to stage-door haunting young
men, to bar-parlour young men, and to a lot of
happy-go-lucky young men. Young men who
teach in Sunday school, and take a turn at dis-
trict visiting, and scripture reading have often the
right grit in them. They try to do good according
to their lights. Too many young men “ don’t care
a damn,” and regard that mental attitude as
manly. Now there’s a lot more manliness in going
to church and Sunday school and being sneered at;
and there is no question but that the Christian
young man has to sustain a lot of sneering which
the “don’t care” young man slips out of. In
Melbourne, the other day, passing the door of the
Young Men’s Christian Association building, we
noticed painted up “Discharged Prisoners’ Aid
Society.” Here was a token of genuine useful
humanizing Christian work. We sneer at Christian
young men ourselves, sometimes. And we mean
to sneer. But the Christian young man we sneer
at is either the scheming Christian young man who
runs the goody-goody ticket in order to stand
well with a pious employer, or generally with
the pious wealthy, or the genuine Christ-
ian young man in his narrower aspect. The
Christian young man in his self-sacrificing and
sneer-resisting aspect is a noble creature. But
when ho turns the bigoted and persecuting side of
his character to you, he is contemptible, and
deserves all the flouts he gets. As a worker among
the poor and unfortunate he is admirable. As a
screecher for uniformity, and a denouncer of
liberty to think and act otherwise than he thinks
and acts, he is a nuisance and a shallow fraud.
The Good Samaritan may have two sides to his
character. While he is succouring the man fallen
among thieves he is grand. But when he is at
home in Samaria, and lends a hand to stone sinners
to death, he is an ignorant and brutal bigot. Ex-
ample is better than compulsion. Let the Young
Men’s Christian Association continue in their
of love and charity, and show how much
better and sweeter they can be than those who sur-
round them. This plan will attract imitation, and if
Infidels want to gain a point, they will have to do
better work and more of it. But the plan of pro-
secuting Sunday-shaving barbers, and libelling
theological antagonists, will do more harm than
good. You can’t insult or dragoon a man into
loving you or admiring your methods. The
Young Men’s Christian Association has in its
power to be a social blessing or a political scourg<.
It can’t be both. The Inquisition was more po w er-
ful than the Association is, and failed to stamp out
heresy. You can’t stamp out heresy. But you
can extinguish it by practical contrasts. By their
fruits shall ye know them. And, above all, the
Christian Young Men must watch lest they be
befooled by the public advocacy and sup ioit
of notorious political charlatans, rogues, and
swindlers, who have too often played upon their
credulity, and skulked under their tents.
It is well that the Rev. D. Jones Hamer was
sufficiently indiscreet to tell out plainly what he
had heard whispered about the immorality of the
Victorian State Schools. The indiscretion made
the statements capable of being caught and
handled and pricked. When Bishop Mookkouse
chose to set them tailing through Victorian space,
the statements looked quite as portentous as
when the Rev. Hamer floated them out before the
Congregational Union. But when you approached
the Bishop’s fleet of rumour and exaggeration, you
found a breeze spring up, find over the waters th*
sails flapped, away, far away from you, and you
gave up the chase and came back to land. Like
painted ships upon a painted ocean, they haunted
your imagination. But like bladders with
holes in them, the crafts of Hame have
collapsed. The definite number of boys and
girls who were body and soul ruined, the
definite school which the definite victims fre-
quented, the definite medical doctor who treated
the definite victims of this definite school, the
definite authority for all this definite knowledge,
whose position in society was of such a detinue
kind that the smallest particle of doubt was an
insult, have all been traced to an old lady whose
husband tells the Premier that the facts were
greatly magnified, and that everybody who knew
anything definitely about them is dead. We re
glad of it. But we’d never know this much only
that the Rev. D. Jones Hamer was so exceedingly
Indiscreet. As Bishop Moorhouse exclaimed, “ I
disclaim all responsibility for the publication of
these statements before the the Union. The state-
ments are, to my own mind, true, but I’m not
responsible.” The Bishop’s painted ships and his
painted ocean have been swept away by one touch
of chivalrous indiscretion.
The Philosopher.
[For The Bulletin.]
What reason has he for care
Who is free of the sun and air ?
The blue sea sings him a song
All day and the whole night long;
If the rich hold the land in fee
The poor have the sky and the sea.
1 am poor, yet I have no wish
To eat from the rich man’s dish
Of the rich man s luscious fare—
For I’m a philosopher.
From yonder green hill’s crown
A turreted house looks down
On a slab-hut mean and low,
Built down in the valley. So
Once Lazarus sat to wait
For the crumbs at Dives’ gate.
Though I have no house at all,
For a shelter, however small,
Yet I envy neither the low
Slab-hut, nor the line chateau.
For I have the sky above
For a roof, and the moon I love
For a lamp, and lie (it’s a fad)
And stare at the stars like mad;
And my brain grows wide and deep
While the rest of the world’s asleep.
In the day-time I dine (one must
Sometimes) on a kisslng-crust,
And sit in the sun and sing
Much happier than a King.
The man in the slab-hut still
Desires the house on the hill;
And the man on the hill would fain
Possess a castle in Spain.
They are both unhappy, you see.
Because they have property.
For happiness still will fall
To him who has nothing at all.
Look at me I I have never the “ blues,”
Because I have nothing to lose.
I have neither house nor land,
And my only couch is the sand ;
Yet I own—though I do not fret—
There are times when the sand is wet I
And, perhaps, if I had my will,
I’d prefer the house on the hill.
As I can’t get what I pr fer,
I remain a philosopher.
The name of Boyd, photographer, who did
so much for the development of the art in this
city, is being made famous at the splendid gallery
in George-street (next Paling’s), which is being
conducted in the Interests of poor Boyd’s children.
The artist is Mr. Henderson, Boyd’s manager, who
produces pictures which, for posturng and
execution are unsurpassed in Australia.


We do not undertake to return rejected
communications. Writers should keep copies.
Generous, delicate, selected, aged Wines,
«SK*fS£Si£ M “ T Hooking®
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
For six mouths in the year the keepers of
Victorian light-houses are cut off from the world,
and forced to keep their own company. This was
bad enough, but a Colllns-street bookseller has
caused a strike amongst them by sending to each
light - house a number of temperance tracts
and copies of Sladen’s poems. A worm will turn.
....The very latest astounding intelligence from
Nyngan that meets our gaze is a telegram in the
Nooze, which says: “The Nyngan Progress Com-
mittee is up in arras.” From which we infer that
the concern is still in its childhood. It’s second
childhood ...The editor of a N.Z. paper is also a
churchwarden. Crossed in love a few years ago,
he swallowed a dose of dog-poison. The local
medico swabbed him out, brought him to, and got
him off. When the bill for attendance wp pre-
sented, the scribe sent word that it should be for-
warded to the Government! The doctor is there
still, and any pressmen taking vermin-siller in the
neighbourhood have to take the responsibility as
we11....161 deserters from the Nelson alone during
18821.... Portland (Vic ) fishermen hauled ashore a
shark 30 ft. long and 20 ft. in girth. Its mouth was
4ft, It was of the “ basking ’ species, and will now
bask In the Museum,... At VVarruambool show,
Mr. T. F. Rutledge exhibited five monster Lincoln
wethers, weighing respectively No. 1,2 cwt. Iqr.
121 b.; No. 2,2 cwt. 3tt>.; N«. 3,2 cwt. Iqr. 13tt> ;
No. 4,2 cwt. Iqr.; No. 5,2 cwt. 1 qr. 4 ft.: total net
weights. 1219 ft. Mr. W. R. Rutledge’s fat wethers
weighed as under:—No. 1,3 cwt. 22ft.; N 0.3,.3,2 cwt.
16 ft.; No. 3,-2 cwt. 18 ft.; No. 4,2 cwt. 15 ft.; No. 5,
2cwt. 15 ft.: total, allowing for tare, 1151 ft In
the Burnett and Port Curtis district, during the
ear e °ded 30th June, 1883, 1391 tons of stone were
j, ras led for 2315 oz. gold—an average yield of 1 oz.
bv r- This doesn’t include much gold crushed
' fi d°lly and mortar—oneclalm atCanla having
At , | <P * ° z ' ln lw ° years by this latter process
w . le Gtibbo Public School only one pupil knew
gj a a “heathen” was. He answered Please,
(Ta« 13 an Grangeman.”. ..In the Derwent River
fnu U* 10181 an octopus from 15 to 20 feet long was
j,’ i t,tra nded. Launceston people say it was
king round for a chance to get at some of the
Wouenta °f the 8i11... .Deposits in Mel-
rno Savings Banks for the year ended 30th
vhlf nearly i-300,000 less than for previous year,
11 (tin nuinber °f depositors had increased by over
’ _- .The Wentworth squatter, Mr. A. T.
dogs k! Wh ° reoent y sent to Melbourne for 300
!le , ’ aas been summoned for not taking proper
Mr* j, or lbe destruction of rabbits on his run.
# rderpd°«^ e ' ln defence ’ Pleaded that he had
•Preach 3J(J na,i ve cats and 60 mongooses, besides
A about a ton 0 carrots with poison traps,
indent 6rbert Iliver ( Nort h Queensland) corres-
loc U3ta 1 M f the Queenslander believes that the
tothe > W 1 ultimately destroy the sugar industry...
Ja6g e '^ e ° f tbe wretched wife, wtiose husband
(six mont^ WUagl recently sent up for three years
e&onot . 8 ln ir on«) for ill using her, it certainly
° 884(1 tbat 88 regards her marriage sur-
NoubiL:,* Ba ° ner _ over her was 10ve....
been dig | cation of the Goondiwindi Herald has
*°PPort , C '° atiaued > “ owing to the very meagre
10 »h 08P 8d recelved at the hands of the people
**“o®, (u (1 “terests it was established, many of
P»y for u•• they took the paper, neglected to
l#«of the A Melbourne theatrical critic, speak-
ers, appearance of a certain performer over
y ’ wi th lago, “ the eye must be fed.”
Yes, and you have only to see once some profes-
sionals we know, and you have a feast for ever.
Enough is as good as a feast .... Two
r miscreants attempted to “burgle” the Aus-
, trahan Joint Stock Bank at Nyngan. Manager
3 Burt resisted them, not exactly to the death, but
3 to their arrest by Sergeant Steele. As he led them
i to the lock-up, they murmured—
* are out of “Joint,” o cursed snite I
The Steele should not be ours this blessed^ight.
i The D.T., in that Gaeta yarn of its. says that an
j Italian count is “ something analogous to a C.M.G.”
he analogy is about such as exists between a
; Parliamentary count-out and an alderman. In
other words, there is scarcely any analogy at all
i between the two things : unless, indeed, one takes
, into consideration the fact that many C.M.G.’s are
of very little account At the recent Echuca
Assizes, Anna Maria Jones hauled up one Oscar
Schmidt for breach of promise. It appears
Schmidt first betrayed her young affections, and
then attempted to skip the colony; but Anna Maria
was determined that if she could not'secure her
Faust in person, she’d have a share erf his purse.
Jury awarded £100 damages, and Schmidt was then
run in once more for deserting the result of the
Motion. The course of false love is getting nearly
as rough as the true track — The fact as heralded
by the Northern Standard, that a specimen of
copper has been found which contained an enor-
mous quantity of gold, has put to flight all our
preconceived ideas of gold only being found in
connection with granite and slate and under cer-
tain At , ot >etime to find gold in copper
snoutf llcedy as to Had the fabled jewel in the pig’s
* * ♦
At the recent hanging in Brisbane, only
two great divisions of the human family—Aryan
and Papuan —were represented.’ In Arkansas,
lately, three great sections met together on the
drop, when a negro, a white man, and an Indian
took their leave of the world together To show
what a serious matter the preparation ol Christmas
cards has become, it maj. be mentioned that the
large English wholesale houses have already the
whole of their new designs for Christmas, 1885, not
only drawn and selected, but in actual course
of manufacture. It is necessary to be thus
at least eighteen months ahead, in order to
keep pace with the growing demand Dr.
Dehoue, of Paris, removes the fat from meat,
dries the latter in the sun, and then reduces it to
powder. A few spoonfuls taken in milk, gravy,
wine, or water, are as good as an ordinary meal....
In last issue, we made mention of Osuka Mina-
klchi, the Jap. who is said to have succeeded in
making rifles of silk. We forgot to say that the
material he uses is “shot” silk....A lady and
gentleman who recently travelled in Sicily fell into
easy conversational terms with the driver of a
vehicle they often employed. “ I was not always
as you see me,” remarked that worthy: “ I once
occupied a much higher position. You see, I was
once a brigand, and all the men of my family occu-
pied the same honourable position; but I became
engaged to a girl whom I loved to distraction,
and my fiancee, disliking the profession on
account of its risks, persuaded me to throw it up,
so now I am only a carriage-driver.”....
Terrell, a Wiltshire farmer, had a wager with
Abbey, an Oxfordshire ditto, who would do most
work in the harvest-field—Terrell on beer, Abbey
on water: fifteen acres to each “pitcher.” Beer
won easily, so the publicans mean to give Terrell.
a gold medal and a purse of sovereigns.... “For/
an army of 100,000 men,” says a Spanish writer,!
“we have 23,000 officers—nearly one officer for
every four soldiers.” And yet 4000 officers, he
declares, are all that are really required. The
•‘Statesman’s Year Book” gives the total of the
Spanish army at 131,008 men, with only 6398 officers.
.. .The London police authorities have received
information from the banking companies that
there are at the present time upwards of 30,000
spurious Australian and other sovereigns in circu-
lation. These base coins are difficult to detect
inasmuch as, in addition to being of superior make
and finish, they contain about 7s. 6d. worth of gold..
The Times, whose leader-writers sometimes pom-
pously castigate other papers for indulging in
“ personal gossip and tittle-tattle,” is now begin-
ning to “invade the sanctity,” &c. The other day,
for instance,— besides, of course, the usual “ dis-
tressing suicide of a publican”—the Times editor
Informed his readers that the Emperor of Austria
had been weighed, and was found to turn the scale
at fourteen stone three pounds—a fact of on
interest whatever except to himself, his wife, and
his tailor. And next day he published a magnifi-
cent description of the new Stow Heath Pumpl..
The wages of the English executioner are
£53 year, increased by a capitation grant
of £3. The office brings in at least £33q
per annum ; but lately the income has been
over £3OO, consequent on the Irish disturb-
ances. It is not generally known that when
Calcraft died several medical men offered to
undertake his late duties—some for a small re-
muneration, others for none. But these followers
of ius were no sordid miscreants, but
enthusiasts, ready to make any sacrifice in order
to secure subjects for dissection. By the way,
Calcraft, after one execution, was quite indignant
at a sugge <tlon which was made that the culprit
had resisted. “ There’s not a word of truth in It,”
observed the hangman, “ I never see’d a man die
better in my life ; why, he died like a regular
gentleman—you take my word for it.*
A double that is often bought off—Bolting
with the pool. °
„,¥„ on .?? re ,9° nway enjoyed the hospitaility
of the liberal Bishop of Melbourne, who attended
his lectures; but the Y.M.C.A. did not look favour-
ably on a man who does not believe in the Devil.
Miss Alice Sydney Burvett, a native of
the capital of New South Wales, who has given
very successful pianoforte recitals in England,
Belgium, Germany, and Prance, arrived in Sydney
by the Sorata.
At Gordon, Yic., the other day, a man of 75.
kpt married. The blushing bride is a simpering,
dy EPH, 11 /* cr eature of only 57. 75 and 57 make
ld2—which is reasonable age for a married couple
to De#m life.
Musket, the sire of Martini-Henry, and
one of the best “stayers ” that ever trod the Bng-
lish turf, was the property- of Mr. George Payne,
who during his long life, lost four fortunes, with-
out ever losing his temper. George Payne was a
most accomplished card player, and enjoyed the
reputation of being the best “ hand at whist ” in
Somewhere in the Deniliquin district,
there is a Constable called Foot , Of course it*s not
ms real name, but merely a pleasantry Intended to
8 F bat a fair-sized corner allotment is deprived
of light and air, when he stands still. A prisoner
broke awa y from him the other day, and left poor
Foot stuck in the Blilabong Creek, where his
boots still remain, as there is no crane handy to
get a purchase on them.
Where authentic signatures are affixed to
recommendations regarding a certain preparation,
the character of the article stands eloquently
vindicated ; perhaps no other preparation can
boast of a more complete record of eminent names
than Won#* s Schnapps.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
L Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
Plume cannot expect to have their com-
municaUons noticed.]
To “^ u ® tralia ’" : , The subject of the Land
„ a^, Reforn ? would suffice to All our paper, did we
alffo anf columB l° volunteer lucubrations on the
“Ventas”: Received....
nonn« de + er : Tour re-hash of European news is
neither terse nor lively enough to suit our
some Australian news
* will look it up. The records are very
much mixed just now....“ Ralph A.”; Will read
d '’viß k T , w“ J Bungar *” ; Will enquire.
.... Volla Tout : We don t know why he wanted
d like to han k everybody. Why
did Nero like to flay people ?....“ R.W.R. ; Next
Week ’ A^% h S p V- f-y-’li Much too stale, now.
G A.C.B. defective for publishing....
•• n * da Sr : You forget to send names.
Publius :We agree with y0u.... “Jack Hlrsch”:
We don t hlrsh-uch poetry often, fortunately, or
wed soon be ready for our hlrsh....“ Joachim”:
it s too bad of you to send us verses about “ the
summer flowers fading neath autumn’s chillv
hand, just when we’d forgotten all about the
autumn. You autum-make things lit together
,° f no keneral interest....
T. K. of L.’: Thanks “C.M.G.”: Good, as
usual.... ‘Myold Pipe ”: Will read for next issue.
. .. J.c. :We can t spare space for your letter.
£\^ W A ea f Buro Joufbatyou are utterly mistaken,
ihe Anderson-Fairfax case was tried before Sir
Wflfl maii*K aad an application for a new trial
was made by defendants. This application—which
M^.H V r! rt « l J a an a PP eal —was heard by Sir James
Martin, Sir George Innes, and Judge Faucett. Of
the independent members of the Court, Sir James
voted one way and Judge Faucett the other, and
Judge Innes gave a casting vote in favour of his
P re y ious decision; so that, practically. Judge
Innes solus sat in judgment on himself. If you
S r f a e ,f?^. a month you can’t get over the fact
M A- 8 * : Apparently spiteful...,” J.M,” ;
Many Thanks.... Emily”: Please send address
v 4 v M.C.S. ; They should do as somebody els®
™5r< put^more J , Jew f? h capitalists Into the Vande-
monlan Council... R.S.’ : Can’t use your water-
bS* may possslbly do something- with the
TWmW L- ?’ ou ? en ®. Ufl Lui ® to my brother
and 8811 US to prlnt a lot of fchl ® kind of
How is’t that when you go to table
You eat as much as you are able;
It surely is not good for you
To eat as much as big folks do.
When you go In to play next door.
And are reciting nursery lore,
because she’s bad at grammar.
Catch hold of a girl and gently “lamm” her.
And you add : “Print this, and I will buy a copy
next week.” Now, L.D., we wouldn’t printing
of your poetry for L.S.fa. If we did, you might
hfiLon 6 C0 5 y ’ and 80 might your aunt, and the
bellman, and your brother Tommy; but 21,999
9^® r fellows wouldn’t buy a copy at all. In
, J?i eaBe 8er ? d y° u . r very domestic poetry to
dournal which gives to literary
iwSf-i}? 6 bad grammar and trusting bucelio
fiS5^°+^ y aa amount of consideration calcu-
lated to ensure the journalistic survival
Samuel and Maria Shandridan
Berry f, ( MeIb -> : What’ll the old
£^i e r aai lv. 8ay “ h ® bears you write sporting
lyrics for the papers ?....“ H.T.J.”: Yes dear si?
we U print it for £1,000,000. Send along a marked
cheque on the B.N.S.W ... “ Clinquisaca ”: Let us
n e nril y t OU d V”“ J - C " : W There’s nothing
to prevent an alien from acquiring or selling pro-
£n rt n y^ere -„ 1 (2) The Extradition Act doesn't atfert
an absconding debtor who has committed no
criminal offence “Marco”: The Rev. Mr
Julius s offence was a purely technical one. We
suppose the magistrates had no option but to
commit; still, we shall be greatly surprised if the —
Attorney-General file a bill? p
•‘THE HORSE THAT DIDN’T CARRY OUR MONEY.”


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Stertin Luther was the champion ink-
Knger, The Devil himself had to dodge Martin’s
k-horh.
Bernhardt and Damala have parted, “ and
neither has a harsh word to say about the other.”
That’s what we like to see. Our experience of
parting has been similar. We have carried the
mArk of the box-iron in silence.
A “ lithography” introduced to Melbour-
nians as “ Mr. G. S. Titheradge ” in “ The Silver
King,” is a very old friend to anyone who happens
to have “ been around ” during the last few
months. The clerical-looking “King ” was a
drawing of Wilson Barrett, in the first instance:
then he appeared in New York, labelled “ Osmond
Tearleand now he gazes skyward as G. S.
Titheradge.” As a likeness, he does most justice to
Osmond Tearle—the clever, but naughty.
So the remains of Shakespeare are not to
be exhumed, after all. This is a pity. We had
hoped to see them in a show out here. We wanted
to see whether they would mean ruin as well as
his plays. But of course they would—that is
unless they were shown in conjunction with a gift-
diorama or a monkey-circus. We are sorry for
another thing, too. We wanted to compare his
skull with that of the poet-laureate of N.S.W. They
must be a good deal alike. We will go further
than this. We will make a bet that, after all {the
boasting about Shakespeare, ids skull does not con-
ntain more now than the skull of a certain colonial
bard. Probably it contains less—that is, if the soli
Of stratford-on-Avon is not sticky.
The Marchioness of Lome’s paintings do
not appear to have paralysed the Yanks at the
Boston Exposition, and we’re less surprised than,
as loyal subjects, we ought to be. Louise “ sculps
(if she does the work herself) better than she
paints: for in this latter accomplishment she is a
discipleoi' Whistler—the aesthetic humbug, whose
buoble was burst when old Ruskin accused him of
" impudently flinging a paint pot in the face of the
public.” The royal artist was (ana will be again,
no doubt) rather fond of paying a morning visit to
Whistler’s studio. Whether she sat as a model for
some of his uncertain-looking female figures, wo
are unable to say.
Miss Keddie is t© write the Life of the
Queen. This is (we mean Miss K.) an old Scotch
woman, who lives with her sister in a dull house at
Kensington, and gains her literary inspiration
apparently from snuff. It is on record, anyhow,
that when she enters the library of the British
Museum she sets all the students sneezing, and the
copy used by her of “ The Journal of our Life in
the Highlands” is so redolent of rappee that it is
kept in a bog-box for her exclusive use. Now that
Her Majesty is launching out in the biographical
line, we certainly think Colonel H.R.H, the Duke
of Albany should commission someone to lay him
out in print. This book would sell well. Lots of
people take a violent Interest in the gallant
Colonel—that is, in the mechanism of him.
Th« Hon. Mrs. Cust gave a party in Cowes.
The Prince of Wales, Admiral Keppel, Lord
Charlie Beresford, and Dr. W. H. Russell attended.
A little practical joke was started by Lord Charlie,
and agreed to between the four. “ Billy” Russell
was introduced as M. Waddlngton, the new French
Ambassador, and fell into an argument with the
Admiral about the fleet. High words arose, so the
“ Ambassador” was hustled out of the room, and
•‘chucked” over the garden wall into the road.
Albert Edward laughed until his nose began to
bleed, when the hostess had to put a large key
down his back. The object of the joke was to
frighten Mrs. Cust. The story got wind next day,
and it was agreed on all sides that nothing but a
bloody war would wipe out the insult. Who will
say, after this, that “Wales” cannot appreciate
delicate humour T
An English paper says that “by the death
of Admiral Patton, the number of surviving
Trafalgar veterans is reduced to four.” There is
no need for our friends at home to take on because
of this. Australia can always supply them with
veterans when they run short. We have plenty
of all descriptions out here, from the still stately
relics of Waterloo to the battered hulks of the
Parliamentary wars. We believe we could even
at a pinch ready up a survivor of the Wars of the
Roses. Trafalgar veterans are ut a discount Just
now, and you can meet a man who has been at
Waterloo in the first corner bar you strike. In
fifteen or twenty years’ time will be soon enough
to bring these forward; to do so now would be
qnly to flood the market. Talk of veterans! Why
there is a veteran factory up at Yass tnat can turn
out more war-worn wrecks in a day than were
ever killed in the old times in a week.
Miss Booth, the daughterof the “ General,”
is posing at home as a martyr. She was led—figu-
ratively, of course—by her little shell-shaped ear
to the borders of the canton of Neuchatel, and
then Informed, in a whisper, that she was too
much joy for a small place, and that the Govern-
ment was regretfully compelled to part with her.
But she went back, saying that she “obeyed a
higher law than that of the Federal Council.”
Then she got into just enough of gaol to make a
martyr of her. Truth sympathises with her in
this fashion :—“ The law of a country may be an
objectionable one. Be that, however, as it may, if
a young lady with a banjo and a drum declines to
obey it, she must accept the consequences.” We
have no doubt she is quite willing to accept them,
as they will probably now take the form of con-
dolence collections. It is a paying speculation in
these days to suffer for the glory of God. The
apostles were only novices at the game.
This is a sensational racing dream, but,
unlike most of its kind, the facts of the case are
perfectly authentic. About a fortnight ago the
Bendigo Advertiser published the following
Statement:—“A man residing in Hotham, unversed
in racing, not, in fact, knowing the merits or de-
merits of horses, dreamt that Martini-Henry had
won the Derby, and that Dirk Hatteraick was the
winner of the Cup; and, in addition, that he him-
self would be dead before the Derby was run.”
That dreamer was a second Joseph at the business,
for ho has two legs in already—one of the legs being
in the grave. Martini, of course, won the Derby;
and the dreamer actually died on the Monday pre-
vious. These be facts, and they should shorten
Dirk’s price for the Cup mateiially. But it’s sad
to think the Hotham party died, for few of the
other prophets tipped Martini. Perhaps they were
afraid they’d die, too. And only fancy what the
temperature of the Shades would be when “ Nemo”
took his hat off 1
The greatest day’s loss ever suffered on
the racecourse by one man, was in the case of the
Marquis of Hastings; and there’s a tale connected
with it as sensational as anything in Monte Christo.
In 1808, the Marquis came into the inheritance of a
colossal fortune; he made up his mind to win the
“blue ribbon ” of the English turf; and he fell in
love with Lady Elizabeth Paget. The Paget family
was not conspicuous for female virtue. Lady
Elizabeth was engaged to be married to Mr. Chap-
lin, but the rank of her aristocratic lover caused
her affections to change, and the day she was to
have been wed to Chaplin she eloped with the
Marquis of Hastings. The Marquis had a filly
entered for the Derby, named after his wife, and
on the day of the race, betting was on her. Chap-
lin ran a horse whose powers had been kept a close
secret, and who started at 40 to 1. Chaplin’s Hermit
won, and the jilted lover was sweetly revenged by
seeing the man who had wronged him ordered out
of the betting ring like a common welsher. The
Marquis of Hastings lost £130,000 that day.
It was proposed to the municipal authori-
ties at Bombay that they should vote 35,000 rupees
to defray the expenses of a public reception to
Connaught. They wisely voted 3000 only 1 And
that was about 3000 too many, as an English paper
remarks:—“ This fortunate Prince goes to India in
order that he may receive the emoluments of one
of the most lucrative of the many lucrative ap-
pointments in the Indian service. He succeeds a
man who is old enough to be his father, yet is not
elder than the majority of officers holding similar
appointments, and he deprives men, as he deprived
them last year—officers infinitely his superiors
from the military point of view—of the promotion
they had a right to expect. Under these circum-
stances, the less there is of public demonstration
on his arrival in India the better. He goes there
that he may draw £4OOO a year from the Indian
Exchequer for services that are not likely to be
worth as many farthings. That scarcely consti-
tutes a claim upon the gratitude of Bombay, what-
ever hangers-on of royalty may think.”
“ It is believed that two lots, disposed of at
the Teck auction, will be offered to Her Majesty
again at sale price.” This is quoted, of course. A
frood deal of speculation is rife now as to what the
ots are. Some seem to think it was the trunk the
late Prince Consort brought his luggage over in
from Saxe-Coburg and Gotha, and which, when
he came to marry the Queen, by some mistake
was catalogued as a candle-box. Sojjie anxiety is,
we believe, also experienced by Her Majesty con-
cerning a metal snuff box thought to contain a
document headed, “Key to put Prince Leopold
together.” The kitchen clock, supposed to con-
tain several cards with “ Loan and Discount Bank ;
Isaac Melchisedec, secretary,” is also being
anxiously inquired after; and the house-keeper at
Balmoral is instructed to pay any reasonable sum,
in lawful currency, for a case emblazoned with the
royal arms, containing a fish slice and fork, bor-
rowed from her Majesty, in one of her weak
moments, by Princess Mary when she had a likely
colonial “mark ” to dinner. Nothing has trans-
pired recently with regard to Prince Teck’s
affairs, but it is reported that he has refused
pecuniary assistance of any kind from the Royal
Family. This may be accounted for by the fact
that the Duke is alleged to have accepted another
invitation to dinner from Sir Samuel Wilson.
And the cloud is lifted from the brow of
Dr. Beaney. A couple of weeks ago a hospital
patient died in his charge, and the committee,
thinking his departure unusually unceremonious,
invited the doctor to report on the disease, and
forward an account of the treatment which bad
been, apparently, so fruitful of results. The
doctor, after pressure, notified that he was pre-
paring a lecture on the class of disorders referred
to, and that on the occasion of its delivery the
committee would have an opportunity of hearing
his opinions about that special disease, and learn-
ing the treatment which he particularly favoured.
This made the committee fall about in a variety of
attitudes, and Mr. F. R. Godfrey began using the
words that came first to hand. “ Murder” was one
of these. Now, when “murder” got out, the
doctor took a fit of attitudes also. The cabbies
that line the head of Collins-street thought there
were half-a-dozen amputations going on at once.
Nothing short of £30,000 was regarded as an
equitable solatium. But it is all over. Mr. God-
frey wants no more of it; the committee want no
more of It; the doctor wants no more of it; and
it is known on all hands that the dead patient
wants no more of it. Ergo, R.I.P.
So Dr. Thornton has got back to Ballarat!
We thought at one time that the ladies and gentle-
men of the digging community would behave
themselves in a gingerly way when their episcopal
f eUow-townsman would report himself in the flesh.
Rumours were current once on a time that the
Bishop would be made the subject of a grave
remonstrance, not alone from the hlgh-souled
members of his own flock, but from “every man,
woman, and child” who knew the truth and was
willing to stand to it, in the city of picks, blast-
ing-powder, and gold dust. They affected to be
libelled by the Bishop’s description of them in
those days. They affected to feel that he had
humiliated them by holding them up to an Exeter
Hall audience and an entire British public as a
poverty-stricken, half-starved vagabond mob, too
poor to supply themselves with school accommo-
tion, too wretched and woe-begone to supply funds
to build a house of prayer. But that's all over.
The Bishop has got back, and he was met with
jubilation at the rail wav-station, and escorted to
the pro-Cathedral and escorted to the City Hall,
and feasted and danced to. You see, the Bishop
has brought out about £BOOO in cash, and who in
Ballarat is so stupid as to refer to how his Lordship
made it ?
The admirable Crichton, whose special
forte is crops, and who, although he could not see
all the letters on the face of the Supreme Court
clock, was able, it was alleged by a malicious
enemy, with the help of an eye-glass to inspect, in
three hours, 27,000 vines, covering forty acres at
Castlemaine, and to test them for phylloxera, did
not get that £3OOO from David Syme. In all, he
wanted £7OOO out of the transaction, which, with
the £2l allowed by the Government, would enable
him to devote the winter to the perfection of that
literary style for which the columns of his paper
are growing to be remarkable. But, as we say, his
first hit missed. The jury cut the £3OOO down to a
solitary fiver. A similar proportion would bring
the balance to about £l2. So we dream and dream I
A few days ago, and Crichton sat on the top
of the stairs of the Federal. Australian office,
holding his scissors ready for the next pile of
American papers, and gazing wistfully from time
to time in the direction of the Supreme Court.
There was a Golconda there, and the agricultural
heart yearned towards it as the domestic cat
yearneth after the milk-jug. Rut Purves stood in
the road, and David sent a boy down with the
fiver. We are not sorry for Crichton. The
- Leader had only copied the libellous matter from
n another newspaper, and had freely opened Its
e columns to the Injured man’s rebuttal, and
n although legally responsible, It was not a chivalrous
e fling for a journalist to try to coin millions out
1- of the responsibility. A paper has plenty to do to
> stand over all its own original matter. Crichton
ought to have frozen on to Schroeder and the
. Castlemaine paper in which the alleged libel first
1 appeared. But then, probably, they hadn’t as
much coin as the pugnacious Boss Syme.
e Oscar Wilde must have many followers in
e England, for we hear that no fewer than twel/e
n hundred gentlemen (evidently aesthetics to the
n backbone) have made application for the office of
e hangman, now thrown open to the world by Mar-
3, wood’s death. Ail sorts and conditions of men
t- have written to the Home Secretary upon the
a subject, and that official has been much troubled
d in his mind to select the most suitable artist,
i- Many of the letters are “ curiosities of literature,”
: but, from private home advices, we are enabled
g to state that the writers of the two following have
■t found most favour in the Secretary’s eyes, and
i, his final choice now rests between them. This is
e one letter, from a man who, although slightly 1111-
- terate, is earnest
“ Horn sekritry
“ Honurd sur as marwood is ded i
wud Ilk To be the hangur i tbink i shud
? sute very wel i hav Dug a hoi in the yard at
? the bak of mi ouse and hav put a scaful up
“ and mi wife as made a flger and evry da we
c Pmetis at dropln it doun the ole and evry
r think alwas gos orf al rite a ansur wil oblig
sur to yor sarvent, ”
f This is the other, in verse (we have some reason to
•i believe that the poet will be the selection): —
“To the Home Secretary. Sir,—
1 “I am writing you a letter
1 Just to ask for Marwood’s ‘ billet:’
b I’m convinced you’ll And no better
Sort of fellow for to fill it:
i I’m the very type of man, sir,
a For the work —I’d love it dearly.
Will you kindly send an answer
By return, to yours sincerely, ”
“ P.S.—I shall be glad to supply ‘ verse ’ epi-
taphs for the culprits.”
0
e Mr. Francis Ormond, the Maecenas of Mel-
-0 bourne, has plenty of enthusiasm. He has also a
s fair share of vanity. As one listened to him at
0 the late meeting of the Town Hall, where the
i. shadow of a Working Men’s College was thrown
1 on the canvas, one could not help noticing thaf
the enthusiasm and the vanity were very nearly
related. Both of them, possessed in similar pro-
portions by a man with only thirty shillings a
week, would make that man yearn to have a seat on
a hospital committee, so that he could litter the
wards with last year’s newspapers and scientific
books of the preceding century. We knew such a
man well, once on a time. He believed that the
miscellaneous ailments of suffering shearers, and
the thorns in the flesh of nomadic splitters and
fencers, were curable, not so much by the skill of
Aesculapius or the comforts of the cuisine, as by
the exhilarating mental tonics derivable from old
almanacs and reams of American Engineers. His
enthusiasm carried him the length, on one occasion,
of investing five shillings on a shoe-trunk full of
this literary exuvias, and his vanity carried him the
length of Having the face of the trunk labelled
with his name in brass letters. Of course, he was
a man with only thirty shillings a week. A man
like Mr. Ormond, with like incentives, can cut the
thing far higher. He can take the working men
into his confidence to the tune of £32,500. And he
has done it, and has nailed his name on the face of
it. We are far from desiring to belittle the actual
worth of Mr. Ormond’s efforts, and are far from
allowing satire a free rein in the analysis of his
sentiments, for we know, with the pungent Louise
de la Ramfe, that human goodness is not naturally
of earthly growth, and requires to be manured
with the hope of a little glory or something; but
we cannot help noting how indispensable to the
institution the donator considers the conditions of
the donation to be, and how much of the glory of
the Working Men s College must be paid annu-
ally, whether from the bricks in the sidewalls, or
from the better bricks who will give up tippling
and go and study there, to the glory-fund of Mr.
Francis Ormond.
Professor Strong, of Melbourne University,
is a dapper little man, with a fierce moustache and
a pair of twinkling eyes. He hasn’t grown much
older in appearance this last month or so, although
he ought to have, as he has been leave-t king, and,
consequently, suffering intellectually, emotion-
ally, and stomachically to a frightful degree. The
University has given him a permit to travel for a
year, and in twelve months’ time he hopes to be
able to show Melbourne some of the curious
things that lie hidden away in Herculaneum and
Pompeii, knowing nothing of the yearning of
cultured Victorians, or the passionate asstheticism
of Melbourne natives. He is taking a hammer
with him to break a bit off everything he sees, and
a valise with him into which to put the bits, and a
strap with new buckles on it with which to secure
the treasures; and he avers that when he comes
back, and undoes the buckles, unrolls the valise,
atid shakes out the bits, Victoria will be able to
Imagine what the glory of the earth Is like. We
i hope the Professor will get back safe, although we
■ are disturbed by serious apprehensions. When
Italia Irredenta beholds him bobbing along with
; that valise and hammer, there will be marvelling
and conjecture; he will be photographed bv the
instantaneous process, and the Prefect of Police
will have cartes forwarded to every station along
his route. After a while, people will get bolder,
and he will be interviewed. Every one of the
ninety-nine internecine parties that make up Italia
TJnita will be filled with fear. The Professor will
be interrogated, searchingly interrogated. They
will look in his bag, they will look In his face. His
answers, his bag, and his face will all tell against
him. Then they will feel the face of his hammer,
and will prepare to arrest him. At this stage we
beg of him to remember one thing. We long to see
him back safe, and are convinced that this event
can only be secured in one way. Just as their
brows wrinkle with suspicion, just as their Ups
pucker with determination, just as their wiry
fingers are on his collar—let him stand up as he did
in the Scots’ Church last week, and read for them
two paragraphs of his lecture on “Courier, the
Soldier-Satirist,” as he read them on that occasion,
and we will guarantee that every man in Italia
Unita will fall on his back and not rise till next
carnival. Vale, Professor, et valde vale!
The Rev. Edward Murphy, S. J., is a recent
acquisition to the religious world of Melbourne
He hails from the classic city of Dublin, and
although he has visited other places, to wit,
“Canada, and America, and Egypt and Africa,” as
he loses no opportunity of letting you know, still
you will detect in his musical cadences tones
grown by the rippling of the Liffey under Carlyle
Bridge, and in his attitudes, gestures symmetri-
cally proportioned with the lamp-posts In Sack-
ville-street. Ah,
Dublin is a pretty place,
Was you ever there?—if not, you ought to go •
Where the girls they are so pretty,
And the boys so full of fun—
For the girls of Dublin city
Go the whole hog or none I
You think of all this, and ever so many other
ravishing things, when you see and hear the Rev
Edward. He made his debut in St. Francis’s on
Hospital Sunday, and after the warbling of
Signora Coy, and the sound-sparkles of the
chivalrous Leandro, the S.J. let out, and knocked
the brass band and the big fiddles into the last
century. “I’m only a sthranger among ye ’*
cried the orator, “but I know well to whom
I am appealing. I know I am talking to
the people of Melbourne, and I know that God
never created a nobler people than yees. Where-
ever the sun shines, the ginerous name of the
people of Melbourne blazes out in letthers of
goold. Ye’re known in Canada and America, in
Agypt and Africa, and even in me own Dublin;
and in appealing to ye on behalf of the Hospitals,
this Sunday morning, I know that God never
before appealed to such a ginerous and truly
charitable people. I don’t know much about your
hospitals, but I can say they are the best in the
wurruld, and I would ask you to read a leading
article in yesterday’s Argus-apaper that deserves
to be more read and more known among the
people of this town.” Ah,
Dublin is a pretty place.
Was you, &c.
But the rev. Father raised the second biggest total
In the city, notwithstanding; or, perhaps, not not-
withstanding.
A little gossip about big people. The two
eliglbles, par excellence, of the London marriage
market, are the Earl of Fife and the Duke of Port-
land, both young and very wealthy. But neither
makes any sign to relieve the British maiden of sus-
pense. The celebrated beauty Gladys Lady Lonsdale
is to be married to Mr. Luke White, son of a Lord.
The precious Earl of Aylesford is said to intend
settling In Texas, after buying a ranche. But as
he’s bankrupt, the ranche is the prime difficulty.
The Earl tried recently for a divorce from his
wife, for adultery with Blandford, but it came out
that the Earl himself was such a complete edition
of a scoundrel that the Court would not recognise
him as an aggrieved man at all. 80, as he couldn’t
get rid of the Countess in London, he’d probably
go to Texas, or anywhere else. A.nd or the co-
respondent, the noble Marquis of Blandford, we
may say he is such an ornament to the peerage
that when he had to deliver up the Garter insignia
of his dead father, the Queen declined to allow
him Into her presence. Earl Granville rides a
tricycle, and his two daughters do the same. Lord
Sherbrooke has been an enthusiastic bicyclist for
years. Many ladies of rank use the three wheelers,
and the Marchioness of Abergavenny (who is
mother of the colonial-experience young man at
Erclldoune) has a special child’s seat behind her
own, and takes the child out for an airing on her
Cheylesmore. A costly memorial tablet Is to be
erected to the memory of Nell Gwynne, who was
the very beautiful favourite of that pious mon-
arch Charles 11. It is rather awkward that Nell
was never a wife, but the Bishop who has given
his consent to the tablet has consented to forget
that little omission, as there was a king in the
case. King Kalakaua of Hawaii has written to
the N.Z. Government, asking whether he will
be suitably received, when he visits. He needn’t
fear. Although he is dusky, the colonial aristo-
cracy will koo-too to him to a man; and the ladies
who keep in glass cases the cherrystones sucked in
the sacred mouth of a queen’s son, will invite
Kalakaua to their drawing rooms, sure. And the
wealthy Mr. Ormond of Melbourne, will glv®
several thousands to build a hospital, provided it
is called after Prince Leopold, which may result
in knighthood.—[Booh I Ed.B.]. Sir Salmon ana
Lady Wilson have given a grand garden party at
Hughenden.
KING BILLY.
[For The Bulletin.]
“ King Billy, the last of the lineal descen-
dants of aboriginal Kings in Victoria, died last ,
Thursday.”—
Last of a royal race
Passed from his dwelling place,
Passed from the bright sun’s face,
Down to the chilly
Land where the dead-men go;
Boomerang, spear, and bow
Laid by for ever—lo.
Dead is King Billy I
Dead as a herring red,
As an old doornail dead,
Dead as—well, be it said!—
Uead as the Jester;
Under the equal sod.
Where lie crowned head and clod
(Fated to fill a hod),
He is a rester.
Gone to his forefathers—
Kings who were —mark you, sirs
Unless tradition errs—
Older than Noah;
Who, ere the birth of laws,
Who, in the teeth and ciaws
Era, ere Aaam was,
Hunted the moa.
Last of his ancient line.
Lost is his right “ divine,”
Lost is his brass plate’s shine—
Why seek for phrases ?
Simply this King discrowned,
Now he lies underground,
No more will lie around
Drunker than blazes.
Winnowed in Fate’s great sieves,
So the old order gives
Place to the new that lives
(Nihilistic, nearly);
Where the green willows wave
King Billy’s in his grave.
Now will Victoria save
One blanket yearly!
AN ELECTRIC PROPOSAL.
Lady Telegraph Operator (reading message): “ Archie’s out of it. Rush off and
hedge, or we wont be able to marry for the next couple of years.” Hedged accor-
dingly.


206-— On the Wallaby A Kangaroo In boots,
carrying swag over shoulder and billy In
hand, smoking pipe; fancy border. This
Is a very comical sketch. Is.
207. Spray of Bpacris, Tasmanian Berry, and
Maidenhair Fern, with ground tint. Is.
208. Spray of Orange Christmas Bells, Ferns, &c.,
with ground tint. Is.
209. “Temptation A Chamellon creeping along
water-reed after a fly, with a Pelican below,
evidently calculating upon a breakfast.
Half sphere enclosing Wara’ah ; Water
scene below. Broad fancy border. Is.
210. —“ Admittance Free ” —A companion card to
above. Spray of Fringed Violets and Water
Scene, with broad fancy border. Explains
result of the Chameleon’s chase. Is.
211. Jug holding Sprays of Bpacris, Rook Lily,
Ferns. &c., with ground tint. Is.
220. “The Artist”—Kangaroo in fancy attire,
seated in chair, with palette and brushes,
painting portrait of Native Companion,
also in costume. 9d.
221. “The Dance”—Two Lady Companion Birds
dancing Jig to the music of orchestra com-
prised of Kangaroo with flute, Opossum
with violin and Native Bear with concertina.
With background of trees and sunset
sky. 9d.
222. The Mooned Opossum—Opossum perched on
bough of Eucalyptus, eating before full
moon. 9d.
223. A Fairy Sketch—Cupid riding on back of
Black Swan on calm lake. A sunrise scene
with Water Lilies in foreground and border
of Orange Christmas Bell and other
favourite flowers. 9d.
224. A Japanese Vase holding Native Fuchsia and
Grasses, with choice Shells in foreground.
9d.
225.-
-Pompeilan Vase with Waratah and sprays of
Shells in
other flowers and grasses, with
foreground 9d.
226. Egyptian Vase holding spray of Epaorls, &c.,
with carved Emu Eggs in foreground. 9d.
227. A Vase holding spray of Sarsaparilla plant,
&c.. Fruit in foreground. 9d.
126.—Corroboree Scene, with Australian Flowers—
Crowea Salignus (pink), Hibbertla( yellow).
6d.
137.—Plenty Tucker—A Scene of Al original Life-
Lobelia (blue), Christmas Bells (orange). 6d.
128. Australian Flowers—Bauera rubioldes (red),
and Platyloblum formosum (yellow pea), 6d.
129. Australian Flowers—Thysonotus tuberosus
(Fringed Violets), and view of Inner South
Head, Port Jackson. 6d.
228. A Cross formed with Thorns and Tasmanian
berries—Pink with light buff ground tint.
4d.
229. Spray of Tasmanian Flowers—Friesia pedun-
cularls (red), Blunda (white), grey ground
tint. 4d.
330. —Spray of Tasmanian Flowers—Coerulea (berry)
with light buff ground tint. 4d.
231.—Spray or Tasmanian Flowers—Blunda, with
grey ground tint. 4d.
NEW SOUTH WALES SCENERY.
A series of four faithfully-depicted chromos, in
sixteen different colours, or well-known New
South Wales Scenery, with broad borders of
English flowers.
313. —Garden Palace and Circular Quay from North
Shore, showing Colonial Secretary’s and
Lands Offices, with Cathedral and Town Hall
in distance. Is.
213.—Parsley Bay, Middle Harbour. Is.
314. Bondi, from the Bell Rock. Is.
316.—Farm Cove and Harbour, from Botanic
Gardens, Sydney Heads in distance. Is.
A series of four faithfully-depicted Monochromes
of well-known New South Wales scenery,
encircled with flowers, &c.. In various colours.
122. Parramatta River, looking from Hunter’s
Hih—Boronia pinnata and Acacia. 6d.
123. Watson’s Bay and Gap—Australian “Velvet
Flower,” and Stypbella (Lance leaf). 6d.
124. Inner and Outer Manly—Native Periwinkle
and “ Orange Berry.” 6d.
126. —Middle Harbour, looking from Clontarf—>
White, Crimson, and Blueberry. 6d.
VICTORIAN SCENERY.
Four Chromo Views, in sixteen different colours,
of Victorian Scenery, with broad artistic borders.
216. Botanic Gardens and Government House,
from the Yarra, Melbourne. Is.
217. Mount Macedon, from Lancefleld-road. Is.
218. —Fern Grove, at Femshaw and Black Spur. Is.
219. Entrance to Marysville, Glppsland. Is.
Any of the above Cards may be purchased adorned
with silk Fringes, at proportionate prices.
For Instance, Cards 201 and 204 (back and front),
fringed, 3s.; Cards same size, folded with four
Cards, fringed and tasselled, 6s.
These Cards can be obtained from all Hook-
sellers, Stationers, and News Agents.
SOME OF THE NEWSPAPER OPINIONS.
Evening News, June 14,1883.
“We have received samples of Messrs. Gibbs,
Shallard, and Co.’s Australian Christmas Cards.
They are extremely beautiful.”
Telegraph, June 6,1883.
“ We have received from Messrs. Gibbs, Shallard,
and Co. samples of their newest designs for Christ-
mas Cards. Our indigenous flora and fauna are
taken as the basis of tkeir designs. Many of these
Srints have to pass through the press fully twenty
mes, the result being very artistic. The illus-
trations of our native birds, and those semi-
comical designs in which the opossum, kangaroo,
and native companion figure, are very good.
Herald, June 28,1883.
Preparations for the payment of Christmas
compliments and civilities are already beginning.
Gibbs, Shallard, and Co. have forwarded us proofs
of some of the Christmas Cards they will publish
this year. The subjects are all distinctively' Aus-
tralian, and quite original ; the drawing is correct,
and the colouring and shading are very good.”
Cumberland Mercury, July 7,
clous series of Australian Christmas and Birthday
Cards. . . Both in arrangement and treatment
they are equal to the best European work, and are
equally adapted to give foreigners a very accu-
rate idea of the rapid progress which Australia is
making in this particular line of Industry. . . ,
“The birds are extremely realistic, the plumage
being charmingly true to nature. A Kosella parrot,
and some torquolsine superb warblers, as well as
diamond and some standard wing birds, particu-
larly struck us as artistic work of real excellence.
These ornithological subjects have sweetly-
rendered landscape backgrounds, or else an ac-
companying sketch, Illustrative of the habitat of
the bird in question. Cupid riding on a black
swan is a delightful picture. A most comical one
is two native companions jigging away to a
quadrupedantlcai ’ band, of whom more anon.
The kangaroo, the opossum, the native bear
are (with the above-mentioned birds) the main
representatives of the Australian fauna in the
series of cards now under review, though occa-
sionally brightly glancing lizards, emerald frogs
and flashing flre-flias are incidentally Introduced, if
not to point the moral, at least to adorn the
tale
As for the flowers—for the delicate lobelias,
and the flame-coloured blandfordlas, and the
gorgeous waratahs, &c., what can we
say more than that these cards are true to them as
art can be to nature ? They are perfect pictures.
In making some of the preceding remarks, It
may be said that we have used the language of
exaggeration. We have not meant to do so. We
conscientiously conceive that these cards deserve
what of praise we have given them. Believing, as
we do, in encouraging local industry, we should
have been recreant to our principles if we had
denied to these productions of Messrs. Gibbs,
Shallard, and Co. that meed of honest recognition
and hearty approbation which, on purs aesthetic'
as well as on industrial, grounds they undoubtedly
deserve.”
I I ® ffifd-H
QI II II 8, BHALLARO, and C O .’8
AUSTRALIAN
CHRISTMAS
AND
NEW YEAR’S CARDS.
BEABON 1883-4.
LIST OF CARDS AND PRICES.
All Cards bear Verses, Mottoes, or both, specially
written by Australian Authors, as space will
admit.
Description and Names of Flowers on back.
Envelopes supplied for each.
- 301.—The “Standard Win*” Bird of Paradise
, perched on bough of tree overlooking
Perry’s Lookout, Blue Mountains ; with
s border. Is.
- 303.—Three Yellow Pardalotes, or Diamond Birds,
3 with study of Blue Gum Blossoms and
Leaves—Moonlight View from Ryde, Par-
, ramatta River. Is.
- 303.—Tw0 Warbler Birds, common to Adelaide—
-3 Sunset scene Junction of Warragamba and
3 Nepean Rivers. Is.
i 304.—The Rosella Parrot (Brisbane) on tree, with
view of Brisbane River, showing Govern-
ment House in distance. Is.
r 305.—“ The Camp” —Four Kangaroos camped
9 round Are, busily engaged cooking—Sunset
scene with border or grasses. Is.
Mr. George Ranken, the N.B.W. Land Com-
missioner, takes a three-months’ trip to Batavia,
on private business connected with the meat-
freezing industry. He hopes to find the new Land
Act in full working order on his return That
well-known journalist, Mr. Edward Ellis, who
left Melbourne on the 23rd April last, writes from
Glasgow, under date 16th Sept., saying that he
returns to Australia by the Shannon, which was to
sail on 26th Oct—Sir Arthur Gordon’s manner
was not happy. He was oontankerous, egotistic,
and vain; but, for all that, he took the measure of
the Fijian planters and traders pretty accurately.
Hlfl picture of them may be too much en cari<xv-
ture, but it’s wonderfully true to nature all the
same. And that’s why they hate him so
Hon. Francis Ormond, some time since, offered
£5OO towards building a Working Men’s College in
Melbourne, to meet a similar sum publicly sub-
scribed. The amount is forthcoming. Mr. Or-
mond now undertakes himself constructing the
college at a cost of £22,500 If people will ex-
pend £7OOO In furnishing it and setting it in work-
ing order A stonemason named Venables, who
died the other day at Dubbo, carved out his own
tombstone years ago, and on it he inscribed this
legend— 44 In memory of Edward Venables, who
solved the problem of the future state on , aged
years.” He left space for the date of nis
death and his age. His sorrowing friends seem to
be as peculiar as the deceased, for in their notice
of his death in the local paper they conclude
with the following words— 14 God he merciful to
him, for he was persecuted here. 4 ’
Sir Salmon Wilson built a hall for Melbourne
University, at a cost of £30,000, and has only got a
knight-bachelorship for his disinterested munifi-
cence. W. J. Clarke spent less, and got a
baronetcy. Sir Salmon has never been able to get
beyond his minor dignity, notwithstanding his
tenancy of Hughenden Manor, and his ownership
of the lad who risked a new silk umbrella in
defending Her Majesty from a witless youth, who
was down on the ground and half choked ? Clearly
because he called the building after his own name
—The Salmon Hall. If he had called it the Albert
Hall, or something like that, he might have done
better. The mistake, however, has been a warn-
ing to others, and may yet be the means of landing
a plentiful haul of titles. A gentleman who has
{ust announced his intention of going into the
milding line has determined to call the structure
he i» about to erect, “ The John Brown Institute
for Teaching Grandmothers to suck Eggs.” That
will fetch Balmoral, you bet— Our old friend Mr.
Julian Thomas (“ The Vagabond ”), has arrived at
Townsville.... Hon C. H. Bromby is doing 44 The
English in Ireland ” in the States.... Mr. and Mrs.
Ernest Favenc are now in Sydney, at the Imperial
Hotel. And this reminds us that Mr. Favenc’s re-
triever dog 44 Ben,” was one of the party who had
a share in the memorable 44 annexation of New
Guinea.” Ben got safely back, and now belongs to
Mr. Chester... /Last week, died A. W. Scott, for-
merly of Ash Island, Hunter Blver, age 83. Born
at Bombay. Educated at Cambridge. Made a J.P.
by Governor Bourke, nearly half a century ago.
Instrumental in originating the Hunter salt
works, an Iron foundry at Stockton, near New-
castle, and a tobacco manufactory at West Mait-
land—lndustries which collapsed during the period
of the discovery of gold in 1851. In 1841, at his
own expense, had a railway route surveyed be-
tween Newcastle and Maitland. Returned at the
head of the poll for Northumberland and the
Hunter, with Piddington and Hely, to the first
Parliament under responsible government in 1856.
Subsequently represented the Lower Hunter. For
a short time held a seat In the Legislative Council.
In 1866 was appointed a Lands Titles Commissioner,
a billet which his death renders vacant The
World says that Miss Clarke, daughter of the
Victorian baronet, is engaged to Mr. Tylecote ;
also that Mr. Ivo Bligh will marry Miss Morphy
Sir William Morgan, of S.A., has died at Brighton,
England, of heart-disease—A letter received by
the last English mail from the plucky Mr. Hugh
Mossman gives, we regret to say, no favourable
account of the progress of his arm. It had been
operated upon by the most eminent surgeons in
London, and portion of the nerves cut off, but he
continued to suffer. He refused to submit to a
fresh operation, as no assurance could he given to
him of a certainly successful result. .The smartest
shearer this season on the Barcoo is one Christy
Gretz, an Australian native. He eased 9700 sheep
of their fleeces in 10 weeks’ work on one station ;
and on another occasion he shore 199 sheep In
eight hours—Miss Maud Cox, daughter of the
Hon. G. H. Cox, has died of consumption, super-
vening on scarlet fever, aged 16 Mr. Charles
Hall, one of the original prospectors of the Tate
River tin mines, and who was well-known on all
the Far Northern fields. Is dead It is said that
the ablest mathematician in the Southern Hemi-
sphere Is Mr. A. Davis. 8.A., the head master
lately appointed by the Minister of Education to
start the Goulburn High School. And Mr. Davis
is stated to be nearly a s high up in classic lore.
• •
Gladstone’s eyes ar© so penetrating that
Her Majesty has often been terrified by his gaze.
Dizzy’s look was worth a 44 Jew’s eye” to her
There are 600 Majors-General on the 44 Army
List ” Nearly 10 of them are fit for service Jay
Gould is called the 44 Napoleon of finance.” Ac-
cording to the Pall Mall Gazette, he is 44 a
small, dark-haired, full, dark-bearded, hollow-
chested, thln-armed, thln-legged, neatly-dressed,
modest man, and a fluent talker. His weight is
just 8 stone; and an admirer says of him,
‘ Although he is only three feet high, two of that
is head ! ... Everyone will be grieved to hear
that in spite of the best of aural doctors, her
more the Princess of Wales is growing
her hard of hearing—so much so that
thev * 0 the theatre give her less pleasure than
hut The deafness began years ago,
she wiin,? 1 8 ? em serious ; now there is some fear
Of Lnri m her distinctness of hearing for ever....
hiseasß? Chancellor Law (who has just died of heart
eS. says:—“When called to the
Partir«n o judicial duties he ceased to be a
fltablv mo! 1 exam Ple of which many might pro-
fteid ’* Humphl Mr. Cyrus W.
wen in tK Atlantic cable fame) has an artesian
BroaderM CeUa ,!: of his new building at No. 1,
felons n?’r. New York, which will discharge fifty
■tom » airSu re o Water Per minute the year round,
being npa^u o ? 1200 feet - The fact of this well
whole 6 termini of the elevated railways, in
bolder re 4, stocks Mr. Field is a large share-
-Bweet y suggestive —Dr. Russell, the
article i n „„ wa ,'i correspondent, has written an
Dot dilate e^P?l en t taste on Ischia. But he does
*aa summo 11 o e special providence by which he
*eek h P f7>?? e . c l awa y from Casamiociola only a
hacked lnr?, r - ybolc place, hotel and all, was
fod adds ®till, it was a remarkable escape,
*?8 and 1 0 a narrative which is as interest-
old 8,8 the “Last Days of Pompeii.’’...
bran Atnwi! ard ' J 3 years of age, lately returned
taarg, to hi<rs’,., w * le . re be has been living many
Jbtoh land. The prodigious family
on JP ani ed him back was certainly re-
"* ffranddtt i, consisted of 16 daughters, 33 sons,
fighters, 17 grandsons, 45 great-grand-
daughters, 39 great-grandsons, 3 great-great-
granddaughters, and 72 sons-in-law and daughters-
v,n’’i ma £ n * all 27® persons. The old man
I 1 ™ 68 carried ..The Baroness
Burdett-Coutts Is descended from an actress, whose
Mellon, and who was married
hanker, and afterwards to
Albans... ...Finding that there was
no chance of an heir, the Comtesse de Chambord
panted to retire to a convent, and voluntarily
e r'ord the same opportunity that was placed
„-j apo il e( P ? reach when poor Josephine was
discarded. But—to his credit—his ’art was true,
and, with true Bourbon obstinacy, he stuck to his
r once a Spanish Bourbon who
(wde Ingoldsby) was also hard-up for an heir. In
9aa e ~r : hut read the story for yourselves.
Whether the Comtesse has passed the age when
even those means would have been inefficacious
is a question for the ecclesiastical authorities
Truth says:—General Booth sent me a balance-
sheet of the Army, but I defy anyone to make
head or tall of it. I am not prepared to say that
the General Is a dishonest man; hut I should hesi-
tate to certify that he is an honest man so long as
he conceals In a tangle of figures his balanoe-
sheet, and does not make It clear what pecuniary
Profit he and his family derive from the funds
which are entrusted to him... It may he interest-
ing.to learn that the Marquis T’Seng, the Chinese
a ™_oas»adlor who is fencing so cleverly with France,
gets £9OOO a year. He can speak neither French
nor Russian, and only a few words of English. He
takes rice with everything excepting his prayers,
and takes a man about with him everywhere he
goes to boil it for him. We drn’t know what the
man gets Sir George Bowyer’s heart has been
placed m a silver casket on the altar of St. John’s,
the church he built in Ormond-street, London
John Payne Collier, Shakesperlan editor, bio-
grapher, and commentator, has just died at an age
only six years short of a century. His last work
was to compile an autobiographical sketch of his
own career and of his literary contemporaries
The original manuscript of O’Meara’s “Napoleon
at St. Helena,” is In the possession of a Mr. Mall-
lard near San Francisco. A lot of the particulars
have never seen the light.... The lately-deceased
Admiral Sir R. Collinson was he who was de-
spatched. in 1850, to search for Franklin. He did
not return till 1855. Three winters were passed In
the Ice, and 5736 miles of coast searched In vain.
At one time the search parties passed within 40
miles of where the Erebus and Terror (Franklin’s
ships) were abandoned. Collinson showed that the
sea off northern face of the American continent
was naivgable.
There are signs and tokens to be seer
every day which show that life in this old world
of ours is rapidly threading out. We live upor
excitements, and the supply of excitements 1(
limited. Most of them are exhausted before life
is well begun. Evidence of this you can find it
the new styles of getting married that are fashion-
able in America. The old way of going to church
having grown stale and blast, couples take to
getting married in trains, in balloon-cars, and
lately a jaded pair were married in the surf.—
By the way, mightn’t the bride’s dress in this case
be called a surfeit ? The future developments ol
this craze for novelty may be easily guessed at.
Couples will take to getting married in Divorce
Courts, to save time; on scaffolds, so that one
noose can be used for both jobs—the marriage and
the repentance; and in hardware shops, so that
they can begin the conjugal caressing witheut loss
of time. Soon a wedding party and a funeral will
mean the same thing: it is so much more economi-
cal to order a hearse at once.
This is the suave style in which the reli-
gious editors exchange courtesies in the Far West
of the States. Says the Lodi Maverick Journal;
—“ Our manhood was outraged on Monday last by
discovering that the dirty cur who slings filth for
the Galt Gazette was polluting our pure air by
his repulsive presence for the express purpose of
finding points against ourselves for publication.
What have wo done to deserve the spying of this
contemptible, low-flung, cat-eyed, web-footed,
sneaking, ignorant, drunken descendant of Ana-
nias ? If he thinks he can ‘do ’ us, let him call
round and shoot fair and square, not sneak about
like a mongrel cur, the tool of some—if possible—
less principled hog, and he’ll find us ‘on the
cook.’ Now, then, you wall-eyed, crooked-legged,
oat-ham’d, whisky-smeared heathen, when you
reply to this, send us a copy of your dirty slush-
rag." The Galt man got his back up to 75th degree,
and what he sent back was this:—“Theslobber-
gob pilgarlic of the Lodi Maverick wilfully lies
in the last issue of his blatherskite sheet, in refer-
ence to our visltine Lodi last week to find points
against him for publication. The scurrilous, bull-
headed, cross-eyed, hump-backed, knock-kneed,
whopper-jawed, pigeon-toed, brainless cur is be-
neath our notice. Hurrool If these pluggers
were here, the Mission House would be their home
immediately, and a brass band would escort them
up to every sitting.
Far, far better for you than beer, ale or
porter, and free from the intoxicating effects, is
Hop Bitters. Read.
At the boring for water 51 miles from
Bourke, great success has been achieved, the yield
being 600 gallons an hour.
Mr. H. Q. Pioton lectured on “ Christ and
the Crucifixion ” last Friday night. The chair was
taken by—John Davies.
The Rum can hardly ever write a leader
without trotting out the statement that Mr.
Dick, of “ David Copperfleld ” celebrity, could
never write his memorial without introducing into
it something about King Charles the First’s head.
Possibly a reason why the Rum leaders are so
dicky.
A few days ago, an old man named James
Selwyn toed the scratch at the City Police Court,
Melbourne, and the “fooroe” ho’ng sworn, de-
clared James 44 was a nuisance to the public gene-
rally, and got a precarious living by composing
poetry, which he sold.” Now we know why a
certain Sydney bard is still at large. His poetry
cannot be sold.
The shark season has begun. The first
perjury comes from Portland, vie. There, they
say, a shark was caught which was 30 feet long and
20 feet around the body. Its mouth was 4 feet
wide. That shark was just irresistible when It
pinched. The teeth have been taken out and
mounted, and, so It Is rumoured, are to be pre-
sented to the local editor as a spare set. Then,
from Newcastle comes a story of a shark that was
seen swimming among the bathers, and 44 sniffing ”
at their legs. It doesn’t seem to have sampled
them any further than this. Perhaps it had its
reasons. However this may he, it is a fact that
the Newcastle harbour is full of sharks. When
we were there, a short time ago, w© saw whole
shoals of them cleaning their teeth against
the rocks. On one side of the bay there Is
a shark nursery. Anybody who wants pets can
go over there and select them. They are so
affectionate that If you go Into the water they
will follow you about, and never leave you—at
least, not leave much of you unless they are
hunted of. Only actors are safe. When a cer-
tain tragedian was in Newcastle recently he went
out bathing one morning, and was pursued by an
enormous shark. Turning round suddenly he
stared it In the eye and then slowly opened his
mouth. The shark opened Its mouth simultane-
ously. There was a pause of a moment, and then
the shark was gone. The next day It was dis-
covered ten miles up the river, dead, and with half
Its teeth gone. It had chattered them out with
terror.
n Last Thursday, the Even Ooze gave us two
columns of the “ Horrors of a Leper Camp.” On
the following Saturday the Keeker treated us to
n a similar dose of the “Horrors of an Egyptian
Is Madhouse.” As it’s the Rum’s turn next, the gene-
e ral public is bursting wide open to know whether
n its 44 Horrors ” will be of a “ Snakes-in-your-boots”
i- description, or confined to the misery of having to
h live on one meal a day, and not know where to get
o even that one.
d
DIRK HAT-RACK.
A Business Precaution.— Small Boy: “’Old that 'oss? Yes, I’ll ’old ’im if you’ll
deposit the price of his funeral expenses.”


“ T OVE, COURTSHIP, and MARRIAGE,” will
be the topic of DR. SIMMS’ LECTURE
TO-NIGHT, PROTESTANT HALL. This is the
Funniest and Best Lecture of the entire course.
Wherever this lecture has been delivered, enthu-
siastic audiences have been edified and amused,
and invited the Doctor to repeat it. In London it
was repeated four times, when hundreds were
turned from the doors for the want of room.
Don’t miss the rarest treat of amusement ever
given in Sydney. Admission—3s. and Is. only. A -
brilliant chemical experiment will be made by
burning metal at the close of this lecture. To-day
(Thursday, Bth November), and To-morrow, Dr.
Simms will be at the private ante-room of Pro-
testant Hall to supply the public with his large
Physiognomical Charts, accurately marked to
Indicate the mental traits of applicants, their
state of health, the occupations for which nature
has adapted them, and the character of person
they should choose for a life companion. See the
Amusement columns of the daily papers to-
morrow for further announcements.
PB R A
O
S E .
Mr. W. J. Wilson
GRAND COMEDY SEASON,
under the management of
MR. WYBBRT REEVE.
Brilliant Audiences. Enthusiastic Reception.
Immense Success of Halliday’s celebrated comedy,
FOR LOVE OR MONEY
FOR LOVE OR MONEY
EVERY EVENING.
MR. WYBERT REEVE as MAJOR BUNCOMBE.
Magnificent Scenery and Stage Appointments.
Stage Manager .. .. Mr. Herbert Flemming
Acting Manager .. .. Mr. J. W. Dodge.
Overture at 8 : carriages, 10.30.
Box office at Huenerbein s, 411 Geo.-st. Tickets
may be obtained at Roberts’s, next Theatre.
Prices as usual. NO FREE LIST.
THEATRE royal.— Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Gxknkji, & Metsohot*.
TRIUMPHANT RETURN
of the
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
A Greater Success than ever I
THIS and EVERY EVENING,
LA FILLB a iH?TAMBOUfe MAJOR.
Prices as usual. Box office open from 11 till 4..
General Business Manager, Mr. H. H. Harwood.
MONCURB CONWAY,
who for three weeks attracte i the Intellect
and Fashion of Melbourne.
PROTESTANT HALL.
Twelve
LECTURES FOR THE TIMES,
commencing
TUESDAY,
with
TOLERATION OP OPINION
and
PLEAS FOR PERSECUTION.
Wednesday—Demonology and Devil Lore.
Thursday—Carlyle and Hero-Worship.
Course Tickets to all parts of Hall, Box plan at
G. Robertson’s. p g gMY THB.
M
asonic hall,
TO-NIGHT and TO-MORROW.
Last Appearance of
MISS GBORGIB SMITHSON,
the Female Maocabe,
Assisted by the Favourite Comedian,
MR. JAU. HOLLOWAY.
Pianlste—Madame Rhoda.
Admission—4s., 35., 25., Is. Plan at Paling’s.
EDUCATIONAL,
HOOL OF ’ARTS,’ Friday, 4 p.m.; mid at
DNEY ARCADE, Room 35, Thursday, 3 p.m.,
jdnesday, 8 p.m. (Ladles and Gentlemen),
dtors invited.
for Ladles or Gentlemen,
lUNTBR STREET, opposite Bllzabeth-atreet.
'erms for Schools or Clubs on application.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
TO LET from sth November next. Terms on
application to Thos. Sbtright, care of
Blvy and Co., 389 George-street, Sydney ; or the
undersigned,
JAMES B. HIOKIE,
Brisbane.
T
IHOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR OF THE
ZULU WAR.
NEW DIORAMA
OB’
EGYPTIAN WA R 1
W. H. THOMPSON, Proprietor.
SYL. RYAN, Agent.
TO PROFESSIONAL TROUPES.
OW open for engagement at NYNGEN, neai
Railway Station, the
• ASSEMBLY BOOMS,”
arge and well-appointed HALL. Apply to
HEARD & M'KENN 4., Agents.
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL, CUDAL.
To Travelling Companies, Lecturers, &o.
> LET. the above large and well-appolntei
IDOI. Sitting accommodation for over 30
le • splendid piano, scenery, &o. Term
mablo. Apply to
H, HURLEY TORR,
Hon. Secretary,
School of Arts. Cudal.
Tlxe isellalol© BvLgrgrles 1
NO SECOND CHEAP HOUSE.
22 and 24 CLARENCE STREET, ONLY,
POR GOOD GOODS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS & WAGGONETTES,
BACKBOARD WAGGONS, AND EVERY STYLE OF BUGGY.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Clarence-street.
Wm.
Howard Smith & Sons
(limited)
LINK of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS.
Offices: 43 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane to Bundaberg, Gladstone, and
Port Mackay, every fortnight.
Bunlnyong
Barrabool
Burwah
Cheviot
Derwent
Edina
Gabo..
♦Balmain
♦ To arrive.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (limited),
43 King Street, Sydney.
XX XX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX X X
XXX X XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
DIES,
LADIES, LADIES,
Now is the time to order your
DRESSES, DRESSES, DRESSES, for
CHRISTMAS, FOR CHRISTMAS,
Orders left NOW can be delivered
punctually to time.
HORDERN BROTHERS, 211 Pltt-street.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Hordern brothers’,
211, PITT-STREET,
PRINTS. PRINTS. PRINTS.
ZEPHYR CLOTHS. ZEPHYR CLOTHS.
Satteens. Satteens. Satteens.
CAMBRICS. CAMBRICS.
Cambrics.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
60 Cases of these Goods OPENED THIS XX
MORNING, the beginning of the
Spring Season.
PRINTS for Spring
SATTEENS for Spring
CAMBRICS for Spring,
in endless variety of pattern and multi-
tudinous prices, commencing at
2Md a yard.
XX
XX
XX
XX
trade a GRAND ASSORTMENT of XX
SATTEENS, PRINTS, CAMBRICS, &c., XX
remarkable for choice design, specially XX
well finished, and unprecedented In XX
value ; indeed, they are THE BEST XX
xx VALUE we have ever been able to offer. XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
REMEMBER—
We are This Morning showing XX
OUR FIRST SEASON’S SHIPMENTS, XX
and truly a grander assortment was XX
never submitted to the XX
AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC.
Witness our Northern Window, in XX
XX which is now being displayed some of XX
XX the newest and most beautiful produc- XX
XX tions of FRANCE and ENGLAND in XX
SATTEENS and ZEPHYR CLOTHS. XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Our London Representative,
Mr. E. C. HORDERN,
has succeeded beyond our most san-
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
guine hopes in securing for this season’s XX
- a GRAND ASSORTMENT of
A grand assortment of Plain Coloured XX
Satteens and Cambrics shown. In our XX
XX main entrance are Manchester Cambrics XX
XX at 2Md, 3%d, 6d, and 7^d—all choice and XX
elegant patterns. XX
Now is the time to secure the best of XX
patterns. Come down TO-DAY and XX
have a look at them. The best place in XX
town for XX
PRINTS and SATTEENS is XX
at HORDERN BROTHERS’. XX
OURNING DEPARTMENT
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
II M (
<x 250 Pieces of Black French CASH-
X MERES and MERINOBS. specially
X made to our order, at Is lid, 2s 3d, 2s
CX 6d, 2s 9d, 3s 6d, 3s lid. Splendid
SX goods. Guaranteed to wear well,
IX and look well.
IX 250 Pieces Nuns’ CLOTH (black), just
IX the thing for the approaching Sum-
IX mer, from Is 3d. These goods will
IX compare very favourably with
XX other shopkeepers’ goods. War-
IX ranted to give satisfaction.
IX 250 Pieces Black HOMESPUN, just
arrived, light in texture, good in
quality, and an excellent black. For
ladies in mourning these are the
very things you want for the Sum-
mer Season, commencing at Is per
An/' a large variety of Balmoral Crape
Cloths, Alpacas, Parramatta Cloths,
Crapes, Grenadines, Twills, &c.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
ix
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
I
5! X
XX We give special attention to this De-
XX partment, and can excute Dressmaking
XX and Millinery Orders at a very short
XX notice indeed. Try us.
XX HORDERN BROTHERS,
XX 211, Pitt-street.
XX near King-street
XX (Only).
JCX.
XX The new INDIANA CLOTH Isa beautl-
XX fully soft wool fabric, light in tex-
XX ture, and in all the newest tints for
XX Spring wear, 26 inches wide, from
yy Is 3d
XX SPRING CASHMERETTBS.-A very
XX large assortment of these goods, m
XX drabs, fawns, greys, hazel, terra-
XX cotta, moss green, crushed straw-
XX berry, damson, nut brown, &c. »c.,
XX 26 inches wide, from lOJ^d
XX ANGOLA BEIGE,
MX
XX
XX
XX
ded for durability, in all the new
compounds and mixtures of colours,
25 inches wide, Is
The NEW BEIGE CREPE, in every
shade, suitable for evening or out-
door wear, 26 inches wide, 10sd
SUMMER HOMESPUNS, in every
IX shade, 6Wi. 7)sd, lOd. Is
rx FRENCH BEIGES, in every shade, 6>sd,
IX
IX Call and see our selection before mak-
IX ing your Spring purchases.
IX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xx
xx
xx
XX
xx
XX
XX
XX
xx
xx
XX
XX
xx
xx
xx
XX
XX
XX
XX
xx
XX
xx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
g
%
xx Complete Sets of Patterns and Guides
XX for Self-measurement on application.
XX
HORDERN BROTHERS,
2H, Pitt-street,
XX
XX
XX
IX
HE GUN I) AG A 1 “ PJToide,"
Pastoral Gazette & Farmers’ Cbronici
GUN HAGAI HER £,}*■?’
WRh which hi incarnated the^^-
‘TEMORA HERALD
Published every Y
WEDNESDAY and SATURDA i
The popular paper of the district-
w. h.TTßailet.
Theatrical Job Printing, and box omc
Assembly Hall.
VIBTUTIS GLORIA MERGES.
COALCLIFF COAL.
This NBWBBT and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY supphes the CHEAPEST, CLEANEST, and
inis win THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony,
£1 pur Ton net, delivered within city bounds.
Thin new Coal with a good draught, and range and barskept well free from ash, makes a stronger,
am* mw ww, wiiu » g that anv other it neither has the objectionable smoky flare and soot of
doesltspUnterandflyoff Uke the Western, but It affords that domestic desideratum
coal of heating* an Iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a
“it the steak none of that disagreeable olour of the unwhole-
some fumes given off by a breeze or gas fire.
A T-ttmerat. DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
Office : A. B. BLACK, 247 George Street.
DEPOT; WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
TO THOSE USING SEWING MACHINES.
BROOK’S
500-Yards Glace, 3d. a Reel!
(WONDERFULLY ADAPTED FOR ALL MACHINES).
Its Excellence and Economy is at once seen.
SEE YOU OBTAIN THIS.
•AIYIES
<Sc C°'
389 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
it
F.A.-iLU
Our* Lawn Mowers
are all aUAEANTEED,
and bo confident are we of always being able
to give satisfaction that we will send
our L,awn Mowers on approval.
Mower Trade
and have in Stock all sizes, so the require-
ments of everyone can be met.
Onr Prices range from 30 Shillings,
and any Purchaser who is dissatisfied after
trial, is at liberty to return the machine at
our expense.
We Invite Inspection, and cheerfully
furnish every information.
REMEMBER. 5 WE GUARANTEE LAWN MOWER WE


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal—“ Cloches de Cornevllle ”.. p. 8.
Opera House—“ Love or Money ” lb.
Masonic Hall—“ The French Maccabe” lb.
With wine upon the table,
And whisky in the Jar—
We think we hear you titter 1
You’d fancy we should glitter,
Each par. shine like a star—
With wine upon the table,
And whisky in the Jar.
(We daresay you will notice
This metre has a flaw;
The fact is, we’re too lazy,
And generally hazy,
To write by rule or law.
We daresay you will notice
This metre has a flaw.)
Time was when we wrote gaily
On humble kerosene,
And touched the tin harp lightly
To tender themes and sprightly—
Love lyrics evergreen—
Time was when we wrote gaily
On humble kerosene.
Oh happy, happy days, when
We tied our shoes with string;
And braced our figure slender
With one green-hide suspender.
And laughed like anything:
Oh happy, happy days, when
We tied our shoes with string!
We cared not then for bailiff,
We cared not then for dun,
No bills did then disgust us—
Because no one would trust us—
No street had we to shun;
We cared not then for bailiff,
We cared not then for dun.
We rose up in the morning
With lyrics on our lips;
We hadn’t any money.
Yet what we wrote was funny.
And full of quaintest quips.
We rose up in the morning
With lyrics on our lips.
Alas! those days are over,
Their charm for ever fled—
The cakes and ale taste bitter,
The gilt no more does glitter
Upon the gingerbread.
Alas ! these days are over.
Their charm for ever fled.
Oh, women, wine, and laughter,
There is an end to all I
The revels and the roses,
The rhymes with dulcet closes,
The banquet and the ball,
Oh, women, wine, and laughter,
There is an end to all 1
The footlights, once so brilliant,
Now burn a ghostly blue;
The limbs that once were lissome,
Red lips—one yearned to kiss ’em—
Paint, sawdust, all—eheu I
The footlights, once so brilliant,
Now burn a ghostly blue.
And we ifrith them have faded
To ghosts of what we were;
The old romance is banished,
The old afflatus vanished,
And gone into thin air;
And we with them have faded
To ghosts of what we were.
Though wine is on the table,
And whisky in the jar;
Grim care of fun’s bereft us.
The old dan has left us
That used to light each par.;
Though wine is on the tabic.
And whisky in the jar.
♦* * *
The Royal is gay, now, if you like. The
electric light there knocks all Cracknell’s glims
silly, and now you can sit, on a crowded night, in
the dress-circle of the theatre, without the con-
tinual use of engine cotton, and subsidising a
theatre-servant to fan you with his ear. “The
Tambour” has run so long now that all the mashers
are “broke,” though the Ist of the month is at once
brought to the memory of the spectator by the
35-button gloves of Stella, and the profusion of
g&lvanized-iron jewellery exhibited by the officers.
But, though the dude-detachment can’t push in
now, it is an affecting thing to seethe wall In the
Pit alley lined near closing time with representa-
tives of commerce and the bar, each one having a
bottle of colonial claret in his pocket, and a cat-
and-tongue pie in his hat.
• •
On Saturday, “Les Cloches” is to be pro-
duced, and Miss Liddiard will play Germaine,
fnere is a lot spoken about the mounting of the
opera, but a lot is always spoken about the mount-
ing of every opera. By the way, it is now
rumoured that Musgrove is going to localise the
pantomime himself. The proper man to write
comic couplets would be one that has never been
known to smile I
** * ♦
Chiarini wires his agent, Mr. R. C. Beattie>
that he leaves Singapore on 7th inst., per Euxine.
for Australia.
» • *■ *
The agent for St. Leon’s Circus has arrived.
Re wears a pot hat and an Astrakhan collar to his
rP®*- His show is to arrive shortly. In the mean-
bis mission is to look lovely and “set ’em
U P for the members of the press.
* # ♦
£k e Lieut. Rose-Dampier-M‘Guffln combi-
naticm has completely cleaned out Newcastle, and
«°pw at Grafton, at the end of which season the
TVio rfu l entrepreneurs' interest in the show ceases,
if™ company—embracing as it does Alfred, the
iriffj? B bam piers, the Cardens, &c.—is a fine work-
and could show almost anywhere,
uirvii j e , Grafton crowd may be said to be far
m luck now than when it was treated to
teas fi 10 when Teresa Horan, as Desdemona,
therii e | m °thering scene out of a book, while
gi tuner accompanied her on the harp
• And, while the tap’s on, let’s say, and
Kvirio° vt V’ that Frank Towers is giving “ Queen’s
S®, ln Rockhampton, and Rosa’s name—
be this I—doesn’t appear on the bill. Can it
“r —but we always forget the dates of Births,
and Deaths. And we are requested to
Maroi, w .eh we do with enthusiasm—that Lily
Jack a and Charlie Lewis are in town; and that
Melhm. Cantlebur y was in town, but has gone to
bouffew 610 or B unise another company of opera-
*• » «• •»
from uuder, uow, for the snow shoe
mean, the show snow—is going to fall with a
(stale phrase this!) vengeance. Wangenheim at
Lithgpw, playing Polk pieces; and, at Gympie,
ScantleB crowd doing “The Pirates” and “Boc-
caccio.” Maggie Oliver does “Boccaccio:” and
let us hope that, with an ingenuousness that is all
her own, she introduces the “ Widdy Dunn,”
“Lardy Dah,” and “Nyum-nyum” into the piece;
which popular airs would pleasantly vary the mon-
otony of Herr Yon Suppd’s music!—Fin.
* * * *
It is with singular, we might almost say
with nervous pleasure, that we chronicle the
arrival in this city of Miss Georgie Smithson, who
was formerly Georgina. It was our lot, in days
gone by, when she was acting at the Queen’s, to
devote, nightly, all the time that we could spare
from killing fleas with an umbrella to applauding
her. And, later on, in Melbourne, whither we
journeyed, at great expense, to see her plav Jack
the Giant Killer, or Cinderella, or the Old Woman
Who Lived in A Shoe, or somethng, we were
reduced, by reason of our admiration of her per-
formance, to a condition of feebleness, bordering
on drivel. Miss Georgina has earned her fame at
home in England, where she is “of the Theatre
Royal ” of several places (about the now deserted
galleries of each Thespian temple the spirit of her
triumph yet hovers 1); and it is no figure of speech
to say that her fame has been well earned, for she
is exceedingly clever. Georgia's fault-as will be
explained presently—is that she is too clever. Miss
Smithson, we may tell you at once, is a tall attrac-
tive lady of 17 and otherwise, and tacitly admits
that the whole weight of the entertainment rests
on her own sloping shoulders, notwithstanding that
she is—we quote her eloquent programme—“as-
sisted by the celebrated eccentric comedian, Mr.
James Holloway.” We knew (it is surprising,
isn’t it, what a lot we know ?) Mr. James Holloway
before he was a celebrated eccentric comedian.
He was then a circus-joker, and he used to ask
(with a humour that was all his own) Mademoiselle
Piflne de Gruyerecheese what he could “go for to
bring for to fetch for to carry for her.” About
that time we purchased, with the savings of a
friend, a little plasterer’s hammer, and nightly for
three weeks we waited for him in the angle of a
dead wall, chewing peanuts to while away the
weary hour. The end was that we killed another
clown—celebrated this one for his “Shakespearean
quips and retorts ”—by mistake, and having been
presented by a few admiring friends with a pewter
tea-service, we retired from the field of slaughter
on our laurels. Being, then, still alive, this gentle-
man (James) assists Miss Georgie in her “ classic
drawing-room entertainment,’ a ud the effect of
his co-operation is such that wo have, since seeing
that celebrated eccentric comedian, stolen a meat-
chopper.
• ♦ ♦
Miss Smithson’s entertainment is a patch-
work business, which she has apparently scissored
with her own fair hands, and which is studded
with so many old friends, that, if it be not
entitled to our admiration for its humour, can at
least, put forward a claim to our respect for the
manner in whlcu it conjures up ancient recollec-
tions. Miss Georgie, however, attempts too much,
and though her tableaux vivants are masterly in
their way, and her “changes” far and away the
quickest we have seen, she begins only by barely
amusing you, and ends by po*itively paining you.
But neither the boredom nor the pain are born of
any incapacity on her part in the art of entertain-
ing. The reason is that she works so hard, strives
so much, and is so terribly in earnest, that the per-
formance, it is felt, savours rather of a tour de
force than a light drawing-room entertainment.
Very good is the “Lancashire Lass,” but it
is roods too long and miles too “talky”; capital,
though, is the /Esthetic Lady ; and better still the
dog-fancier—an impersonation which is hardly
improved by the introduction of an imitation
(not a bit like it) of Maccabe’s cough in hie
impersonation of the Tin Whistle Troubadour.
The dialogue, however, by which these and other
characters are introduced, is of an exceedingly
emaciated description; and we cannot deny
(though we should like very much to conceal the
fact) that it was a matter of regret to us that the
decanter of sherry presented such a startling
resemblance to a pint of Toohey’s with a dash of
English. Miss Georgie, however, is more than well
worth seeing, since her entertainment falls little
short of being a feat of versatility and endurance.
Mr. Holloway', though—being Georgle’s hub.—
ought to he content with supporting his charming
wira off the stage, and engage a thorough come-
dian to “ feed” her when performing.
i * * *
The temple chosen by Miss Georgie is the
Masonic Hall. Go and see her.
- *
HER NAME.
She speaks well; has a sharp, quick air;
Drops sentences you might compare
To shots.
But what avails her all her fame,
Loaded with such a dreadful name
As Potts?
Were there not other names galore—
Smith, Jones, Brown, Robinson, and more ?
Yes, lotsl
i Yet right into our midst she came
Unblushing, with the nightmare name
1 Of Potts!
She Inculcates morality,
And makes a holy show—does she—
Of sots.
But what’s the use? Her name will kill
As many as it cures; it will—
This Potts!
* ♦ •
It is a pity that the lady physician hasn’t
another name in her bandbox which she could sub-
stitute for that of Potts. We say this as much for
our own as for her sake. You can hardly think
how such a name as Potts handicaps us. Suppose
we wish to be complimentary, can we say the
pretty Potts, the charming and clever Potts, the
refined and elegant Potts ? Hardly. The humour
would be considered too broad. But we are not
the losers. And so we will confine ourselves to
seeing how Mrs. Dr. Potts pans out.
• * *
Before beginning, however, we desire to
call the attention of our own sex to the fact that,
if feminine adaptability continues to develop as it
has done of late, the proper sphere of man will
soon be the washhouse or the nursery. We say
this quite seriously. There was a time when
lovely woman was glad to bo allowed to follow
humbly in the steps of her lord, and carry the
camp-kettle and the missionary-oven. Her very
existence was then a concession made by the lords
of creation. There was no nagging, no domestic
difficulty, no back-talk in those days. If she did
not do as she was bid, she was promptly flattened
out with a club, and Another (bitter word !)
shouldered the cooking-range and the rest of the
utensils. These were halcyon times for the stern
sex, who had nothing to do but read the Scriptures,
get drunk, and lie in wait for their enemies. At a
later period of life, when the refining influence of
religion put a stop to cannibalism, or men got too
tough to be eaten, lovely woman was allowed to
amuse her lord—who dressed her as a doll and kept
her in a glass-case, and threw sugar at her, when
he wasn”t splitting somebody else’s head with a
battle-axe for saying she wasn’t the prettiest dpll
then in existence. This was well enough in its
way. And even of late years, when more freedom
was allowed her, and she was permitted to express
her opinion on politics in the intervals of ironing
the family linen, we did not mind, because it made
us laugh. But now, when she wants to take every-
thiag in her own little hands, and wails if she is
not let make laws and medicine, we begin to think
we have made a mistake in ever promoting her
from carrying the camp-kettle—though, if it were
fated that she should make either laws or medicine,
we would prefer her to make laws. She might
make bad medicine, but she couldn’t make worse
laws than we have.
Just think 1 Wh have now lady-editors,
lady-lawyers, lady-clerks, lady-revivalists, lady-
lecturers for Christianity and against Christianity,
t and lady-doctors, but very few ladies pure and
>, simple. Perhaps this follows. We don’t know,
i— and we don’t care. For our own part, we look
d forward with feelings of delight to the time when
11 women will do all the work of the world. What a
” time that Will be. Armies of amazons, brigades of
; belles I Every grlsette will then carry the some-
- thing or other of a General in the lunch-bag, and
nations will go to war about the shape of a bonnet
or the fashion of a pelisse. Now that woman
wants her rights, let her have them. We will take
f charge of the spindle while she wields the spade;
3 we will shoulder the crochet-needle without a
3 murmur, while she trifles with the sledge-hammer
9 and the cross-cut saw. We have had a long
3 enough spell of luxury. What wo want now is
3 some stirring domestic employment—feeding the
r baby with fusel-oil, or milking the cat. Yes, gentle-
-0 men, we repeat, there is a good time coming for
£ our oppressed sex. We shall soon be able to stay
3 at home and go about in the draggle-tail gown and
3 canoe-slippers, and gossip over the fence with our
. next-door neighbour about measles and chicken-
r pox, while our wives are out coal-heaving or hod-
t carrying to support us and the kids. By all means,
B let woman have her rights.
1 ♦ * ♦
, But you want to hear about Mrs. Dr. Potts.
0 Well, you shall. She is a nice-looking little lady,
B of the American type—thin and clever-looking.
s There are two well-defined lines stretching from
_ the corners of the nose to the corners of her
a mouth. These may be marks of thought, or they
9 may be Indications of the wear and tear produced
t by eating tough beef. We don’t know, so we will
i. let them go as *igns of thought, It costs nothing
to be courteous. She has shapely hands, too, with
•’ several rings on them, the brilliancy of which out-
Y shines that of her periods. She dresses in a plum-
coloured gown, with lace around the throat, and
£ lace ruffles on the wrists, and carries a long rod in
e her hand, which gives her the appearance of a
0 sybil gone fly-flshing. This rod she uses to point
t out the ulcers in a drunkard’s throat—a picture
ft we took great interest in—and other delicate little
r drawings of a like nature which are hung up at
a the back of the stage. Her delivery is slow and
e distinct, and very American. If anything would
r make disease pleasant and popular, we think it
3 would be to hear this nice-looking, prettily-d ressed
n lady talking about it in soft, easy tones,punctuated
r with occasional smiles. We don’t think we ever
r felt so bad in our lives as when we were listening
to her.
c * * *
f It was on Saturday night we went to hear
g her. She lectures in the Old Exhibition Building;
r- and though her voice is clear, yet, when it reaches
the lower end of the hall it sounds like the wail of
the grasshopper in the gloaming, or the evening
hymn of the mosquito when the moon silvers the
(j sea and the burglar begins to prepare for business,
(j This has the effect of making the audience crowd
,t up together, half in fear and half for warmth - for
t the chilly night wind whistles through the hall,
e and shakes the ghastly diagrams of disease upon
.. the wall, till one almost expects, with a shiver, to
, see them come down and range themselves along-
n side the other dead-heads. The two skeletons on
e the platform, which seem to stare you out of
y countenance with their eyeless sockets, as though
, they suspected you had come in with an order,
j intensify the feeling of eeriness which wraps itself
L _ round you like a miasma of the tombs the moment
g you come in, until, at last, your reason is shattered,
•_ and you rush out of the hall with your hair on end,
e and never enter again until you come back for
your umbrella.
• • •
t That is, you would do this only for one
l, thing: the quiet, reassuring voice of the lecturer,
e After your first fright is over, it is all right. You
y hang with delight upon those lips that ripple out
n anecdotes of apoplexy and tales of tumours in the
s ear. Your soul is ravished by those silvery accents
that shed a halo over liver-complaint and cancer,
r You are conquered,
y ...
Mrs. Dr. Potts told us some things we never
„ dreamt of till that night. For instance, about babies.
„ We thought we knew all about the treatment of
% babies. But it seems we didn’t. Our method of
ii curing an infant of wind in the stomach by patting
e it on the back with a rolling-pin is not, it appears,
. in accordance with the latest doctrines of medical
1 science. Neither does it seem that we have been
„ benefiting the physique of our rising gei .oration
i by allowing them to drain the rum-flask, and by
loading them up with laudanum to make them
sleep when the missus is out and we want to go to
the corner hotel to look at the time-table. The
e practice of throwing babies up to the ceiling to
shake up the paregoric inside them, Mrs. Potts
also discourages. Drinking, she discourages, too:
she considers it ruinous to mind and body. There
is no necessity whatever for drinking, in her
opinion. Drinking does no good to anyone, and
much harm to everybody. It produces crime, in-
sanity, and death. We think so, too.
• • •
And, having got this length, we think we
will take a drink.
• •
After the lecture, a small boy in buttons
came out and covered up the skeletons. We tried
to ingratiate ourselves with this boy by offering
him a cat-whistle, but he received our overtures
with a contempt which he would have had cause
to repent as long as he lived if he had been smaller.
This boy reminded us of a story of a doctor who
was a ventriloquist, and used to frighten seven
years’ growth out of every new boy he got by
sending him down into the cellar to “feed the
skeletons." The doctor had four skeletons in his
cellar, and he used to send the boy with a bowl of
gruel and an iron spoon to feed them, and then
t creep down himself and make the skeletons mutter
- in awful tones that the gruel was too hot. He
r used up several boys in this fashion, till one day
c he got an Evenooze boy. This boy went down
a with the gruel and the spoon whistling cheerfully
s all the way. Ho walked up to the skeletons with-
-3 out a tremour (he had been accustomed to seeing
r reporters) and shovelled a spoonful int" the Jaws
t of the first. Then a sepulchral voice muttered,
) “It’s too hot.” “Then, dam you, why don’t you
blow it?” said the boy. This finished the facetious-
ness of the doctor.
♦ ♦ ♦
Now, a word in real earnest. Mrs. Dr.
t Potts—who, by the way, is driven home after her
1 lectures in a covered carriage drawn by two
r prancing hat-racks—is well worth hearing. What
3 she has to say concerns eve-ybody—as mostly
. everybody is either a dipsomaniac or a father, and
. frequently both. We hope she will do well.
\ * * • *
| Mr. Wybert Reeve being an exponent of
[ comedy, of course believes in it. So do we. We
are very fond, Indeed, of legitimate comedy—and
; have been, ever since Uncle Ned took us, gorgeous
’ in frilled drawers and a blue merino frock, to see
1 Farren do Sir Peter Teazle in the “ School ,for
: Scandal.” This plav, we may remark, is by a Mr.
; R. B. Sheridan, who seems to be dead; otherwise,
; he would probably have been the author of “ Hur-
ricanes,” “The Romany Rye,” “No Mercy,” and
I other chaste and intellectual pieces. As it is, how-
‘ ever, “ Hurricanes,” produced atthe Opera House
last Saturday, is described by Mr. Reeve as being
“the Celebrated American Comedy, by Bronson
, Howard.” As a matter of fact, “ Hurricanes” is a
’ by no means brilliant translation of a Palais Royal
farce, the plot of which, in the original, hinges
J upon the adventures of four men who have been
■ out all night, striving to screen that fact from
* their wives. As told here, these gentlemen are
| supposed to have been—we quote the gorgeous
! vernacular of most of our legislative represen-
; tatives—at a “borl marsk,” and some fun, which
■ is seldom lively, and often feeble, is evolved out of
’ that circumstance. We have had this piece in Byd-
! ney before. Frank Towers opened with it, calling
■ it by its proper name, “ Truth;” and it was played,
J to the complete satisfaction of the cloak-room
keeper’s aunt, tor several nights. Yet, as a whole,
the piece was better acted at the Gaiety than at
> the Opera House; though, certainly, Mr. Wybert
- Reeve's assumption of the part of Batterson (who
, j ig $ high-toned gentleman) towers above that of
Frank, who, we remember, appeared all through
the piece in a condition of consternation at finding
himself so respectable.
• •
Mr Reeve, then, is very good. He is very
good because he is very quiet, and perfectly under-
stands the art of concentration. His fun filters
out, and, though it is poor fun (which is not his
fault), it is very acceptable; and his style affords
a stern and terrible lesson to some of the gentle-
men that support him. Mr. Forbes, for instance,
in a red tie and a pair of light pants, was effusive,
and, consequently, ineffective. What Mr. Forbes
requires is repression. It is fortunate for him
that, being so demonstrative, he left, while yet
in the peach-bloom of his youth and the glamour
of his loveliness, the bar for the stage. Other-
wise, he might have, in the heat of his en-
thusiasm, either eaten a bailiff or brained a judge.
Mr. Forbes, though, has advanced a lot since
we saw him play Major Wellington de Boots before
Little Gussy and Rignald prior to his (Mr. F.’s)
departure for Wapping or somewhere, where he
was to study the dramatic art under the best
masters. Mr. F., however (and we thank him),
yielded to the tears of a remonstrating country,
and uncorded his hair-trunk and is now pursuing
his profession under the auspices of Wybert. Mr.
Forbes, who on (and off) the stage is as pretty as
a picture, is in a capital school; but, if he can’t
learn fast enough by simply playing with Mr.
Reeve, he might occasionally sleep on the mat
outside that gentleman’s door, at the Exchange,
having previously poisoned the dog with a copy
of the Telegraph. Mr. Flemming’s Frederick
lacks colour. Herbert’s face lacks that, too; and
we might suggest that, if his comedy powers do
not permit him to remedy the former, his make-
up box would satisfactorily fix the latter. Mr.
Frank Gerald played an impossible serving-man in
a nigger minstrel-like necktie, and developed
some humour, but it was the kind of humour that
caused one to reflect, somehow, upon those weird
stories of the Nevada by Bret Harte, in which
people did impulsive things with a pine-tree and
a clothes-line. Mr. Edwin Palmer (who seems to
be modelling himself upon Mr. Hoskins) made a
deal of fun out of the role of the General; but
whether his reading of the part is a correct one is
a point which is (as, indeed, every point is I) open
to question, and which, as our little butler is wait-
ing outside with our dinner in a pudding-basin, we
have no time to argue.
• • •
The ladies—bless their hearts ! —(fatherly
this 1) were very nice and all that, and seemed to
en joy themselves a good deal. We are glad to mark
this, for we are always pleased to see people enjoy
themselves. Miss Maggie Knight looked extremely
pretty, and was excessively vivacious as Mrs.
Batterson, though we could have wished that an
additional gleam of probability had attached itself
to her wig. A very clever young party this same
Miss Knight is in farce and comedy, but hardly so
great in burlesque. A very near relative of hers,
we remember, enacted “Aladdin” in last year’s
pantomime. It was a unique performance; but it
took us some time to bring our aunt round after it.
The General’s wife was enacted by Miss M.
Fischer, a lady whose rhythmic accentuation of the
Australian language points to the conclusion
that she either halls from Hamburg or has left
Dantzic desolate. Miss Fischer, anyway, was very
good indeed, which we consider suf-Fischerlent
for her little plate this issue. Miss A. Francis—a
charming young lady whom a kindly Providence
has designed on the top-boot principle—played
Julia Miss F. is evidently a beginner, and that is
why she buts her head forward instead of keeping
It erect. We once knew a C'eopatra who did this;
and, in the second act, she knocked Anthony’s
“ guinea set ” half down his throat, and, in cough-
ing the ivories up, he nearly killed the man who
111-used the flute. Miss Ethel Adele was a Blanche
that a man could lie on an ant-hill and dream of.
She looks very pretty, but her vivacity might
suggest to a cynic that she is—the now expression
—just a little bit too previous. Miss Annie Taylor
was a very lively Mrs. M’Namara. Miss T. looked
charming ; and it is gratifying to chronicle the
fact that the hash of this hemisphere appears to
agree with the lady so well that, at times, the
action of the piece was, in a manner, delayed by
the time it took some of the characters to walk
round her. The piece was not very expensively
staged, a man played a piccolo solo, Dodge is on
the door, and “Diplomacy” will be played on
Saturday.
If we are to believe what is told us, by the
way, Maggie Knight is destined to make a big hit
as Dora. The shoe-trade is now busily engaged
on the “ lost slipper.”
*♦ * *
“The Silver King” has been presented at
Melbourne Theatre Royal, and has created a more
than usually favourable impression. It doesn’t
seem a very hard thing to please Melbourne play-
goers in the matter of rhyme or reason. Provided
there are plenty of action and plenty of display
the plot may be very indifferent and the Incidents
very clumsily strung togeiher The “ Silver
King ” is a live-act drama, the outcome of a liter-
ary partnership, and possesses, in a literary sense,
some value, Messrs. H. A. Jones and H. Herman,the
authors, have regenerated their prodigal on lines
that give plenty of scope for good writing and
good acting. The play may be told thus:—Wilfred
Denver has squandred his means, and himself and
his wife, Nellie, are in desperation. Geoffrey
Ware comes in and says to Nellie, “ Ha, if you had
married me instead of that fellow 1” Denver gets
a revolver ready, and goes to shoot Ware. Ware
is not at home, but a lot of burglars are, and their
leader, Captain Skinner, drugs Denver. Then
Ware comes in, and Skinner shoots him. Then
the burglars decamp. When Denver awakes
and sees the dead Ware, he believes him-
self a murderer. Then he flies, and becomes
rich by mining. After many years he finds out
that it was Skinner that shot Ware, and gets
him hung accordingly, and returning to poor
Nellie, lives happy ever after. Apart from the
acting, Nellie is a beautiful character; as repre-
sented by Miss Annie Mayor, she was the most per-
fect of her creations. Captain Skinner is a whole
Individual, well thought out, and done justice to
by Mr. Arthur Garner. Mr. G.S. Titheradge gloried
in the principal figure, and he can glory when he
gets a chance; but Wilfred Denver is a mixed
sort of personage. It takes a host of people to do
the drama; and there is ever so much work on all
sides which we haven’t time to notice. But we’ll
say that Mrs. Marcus Clarke was Susy, the waitress.
• • .
“The Woman of the People” is in dupli-
cate. Going on in the Victoria Hall and the Bijou
at the same time. Herr Bandmann fetched her
down with a note from John Davies, or some
other exemplary Sydneyite, and we were prepar-
ing to get startled. But Signor Majeronl, in his
deep-voiced way, cried out ; “ Here’s an-o-ther I”
Miss Beaudetand Signora Majeronl are both excel-
lent women—that is, “Women of the People.” And
the people are still running to the “ Black Cloaks,
and Emilie’s Fair Helen is to be superseded by a lot
of sensations to catch the Queensland squatters
during race week. And last of all, Herr Band-
mann has been having “a show” in the police
court, and Panton made him pay Glover, his old
“ Bertrand,” £8 or £9 on the nail.
Mr. DeGottrot Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 126 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
Upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Department undertaken. Titles a
speciality.—An vr.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief:
a small bottle often cures. Ask for “ Arnold’s’*
and get it; spurious Imitations are sometimes
offered.


Don’t Dih in thi H05H.-“ Rough on Rats ”
clears out rats, mice, beetles, roaches, bed-bugs,
files, ants, insects, moles. Jack-rabbits, gophers.
Moses, Moss & Go., Sydney, General Agents.
The Selector and his Bride.
[For The Bulletin.]
Ah, my honey, sure I told you when I courted you
I’d make you
Feel as happy as a princess, and would never
more forsake you;
Now, you see, your old selector is as constant as
he should be,
And as warm as any young fellow that hung about
you could bel
Ahl—
I’m as fond of you, my lovey—l’m as fond of you,
my honey—
As before the parson tied us In the bonds of
matrimony I
Cooeel look, my love, my honey, at the multitude
of faces,
With their laughing eyes and babble, making for-
ward to the Races;
No one there is half so happy, or can brag so much
of marriage.
As yourself and me, my ducky, in our vegetable
carriage.
Cooeel—
Jog along, old Barney, to the Derby with my
honey,
And let ev’ry one that looks at us go try a matri-
mony I
Shi Yah I Seel There’s Andy Hutchinson, the
young fellow of twenty,
Who was always hanging round you with his hair
so oiled and scenty—
He is drunk. Now, yah, my honey, see how
happy is our marriage,
I am sober here, beside you, in our vegetable
carriage I
Whoo 1—
Jog along, old Barney, to the Derby, with my
honey.
And let ev’ry one that looks at us go try a matri-
mony I
Do believe me, little beauty-spot, a girl is wise
and prudent
Who has sense to not to listen to the young fel-
lows that shouldn’t
Be allowed in this line country to inveigle girls to
marriage—
Not, at least, until the time they can be masters of
a carriage—
Whoo I
Jog along, old Barney, to the Derby with my
honey,
And let ev’ry one that looks at us go try a matri-
mony I
There’s the horses I Tare and agesl We are here,
just nice and handy—
Now, my honey, do look this way, and don’t mind
that drunken Andy—
That’s the Melbourne Stakes they’re starting—now,
look this way, do, my ducky—
Isn’t brave Sir Moored lively? Isn’t big First
Demon plucky?
Ah ll’mI —
I’m as fond of you, my lovey, I’m as fond of you,
my honey,
As before the parson tied us in the bonds of
matrimony I
Whoo I my lovey—whoo I my honey—little wonder
my face winces,
I am proud as any monarch, and you're proud as
any princess—
Do look this way—yum, my honey, there Is no
young fellow living
Could give you the joy and love your old Selector
now is giving I
Ahl—
I’m far fonder now, my lovey—l’m far fonder
now, my honey,—
Than before the parson tied us in the bonds of
matrimony 1
Certainly this is a very old world. Some
American geologists have recently discovered
human foot-prints in sandstone. These foot-prints
are from 181n. to 20in. in length, and 81n. wide. It
is queer to think that there were policemen even
in those days.
On the heels of the underground railway
rascality, comes an Intimation from O’Donovan
Rossa of still further dynamitic diablerie.
Such bluster and blow, my dear boy, is “no go,”
Though of “ centres’* you may be the boss. A
Mistake you have made—there's no one afraid
Of your thunder-and-sawdust, O’Rossa.
This settles it. Mr. Moneure Conway con-
siders that “ our ideas of a deity are necessarily
anthropomorphic.” He also reverences the divine
character. Now we are happy. We were beginning
to be afraid that the scientists of the age were
growing dissatisfied with the Creator. We even
suspected that a section of them considered Him
obsolete. How glad, therefore, are we to find that
Mr. Moncure Conway is still willing to give Him
another chance.
We don’t profess to know what James P.
Austin meant when he called constable Dawn a
“ copper.” It was in Bourke-street, on Saturday
night, and the constable very properly told him to
“ move on,” and not be obstructing the thorough-
fare. “Ye’re a copper,” said James. “01 then
arristed him for insultin’ behaviour, yer worshup.”
“ It was an insulting expression, no doubt,” said
his worship, “ and I fine the prisoner ten shillings.”
Now, we can’t right see through this alleged insult.
If James had called the Dawn silver instead of
copper, would the fine have been proportionately
increased; and if he had called the Dawn golden,
as poetical parties are always doing, what would
have been the penalty? We have heard of an
incense-breathing dawn, and a rosy-fingered dawn,
and dawns of every conceivable and inconceivable
pattern down to our very old and pleasant ac-
quaintance, the omadhaun, and we were uncon-
scious that they objected to any sort of a metallic
prefix. But “Ye’re a copper, seems to lift a
dawn. . . . Ha 1 the meaning begins to dawn.
It trickles out. “Ye’re a copper ’—that is, an
iron pot for boiling clothes in. Somebody fine
James a pound for leading us to break our heads
this way.
Mr. E. Cyril Haviland seems to take a good
lot of killing. Behold him now blossoming forth,
once more, as an editor, and writing-ingenuous
creature—Innocent poetry for children in a publi-
cation called the Rainbow. This journal is, it
seems, the organ of the “ Sydney Progressive
Lyceum,” of which we see that Cyril is the “ con-
ductor,” and one Slocombe the hon. treasurer.
The contents of the publication are of an enthral-
ling nature. The following, for instance, is a fair
sample of the complete essays which coruscate in
its pages:—“ Sheep are quadrupeds covered with
wool; they have two horns, big eyes, and woolly
tails; they live on grass and herbs. > heir meat is
very delicious.” Cyril says : “ The paper is sup-
ported by guaranteed donations, which at present
reach 7s. 9d. per week; special donations since
starting amounting to 10s. 6d.;” after which state-
ment all doubts as to the prosperity of the under-
taking must, at once, be cast aside. Mr. Haviland's
poem in the number of the Rainbow before us is
a touching thing. To the girls he says :
“ Study, study, while you may;
Learn to live for every day.”
There is some more of this gorgeous stuff, but we
feel this is too sinful a paper for such good poetry
to appear in. We have known Cyril as the editor
of a great many things, including a publication
rather larger than the COBNHinn Magazine, and
a newspaper more than six times the size of a pawn
ticket. We have, however, never yet known him to
edit a curl-paper, though we are under the impres-
sion that Cyril would edit a wafer rather than not
have his perfumed patronymic before the public.
The paper is published at Id., and is now in its
first volume and its second number. It will cer-
tainly come out again, anyhow, or what will be-
come of the guaranteed donations?
BRIEF MENTION.
Looo'8 motive for bolting — The Loco-
motive.
There is many a slip 'twixt the Cup and
the tip.
Ecclesiastical conundrum : Are any of our
B.O. hierarchy See-worthy ?
From the cultured Dr. Barry our colonial
church will receive a tone; presumably Barry-
tone. The laity will do the termers.
Oliver Cromwell fixed the interest on loans
at 6 per cent. Aaron Yaxman fixed it at 1400 per
cent. Therefore, Aaron is 1394 per cent, better
than Oliver. Figures will prove anything.
1261 illegitimate births were registered-in
the colony last year. This intet eating fact has
been kept dark hitherto, probably because it might
have the effect of causing the steamboat proprie-
tors to raise their fares.
THE DIFFERENCE.
Two men, to milk a cow, are matched
In Murrurundl—humph I
Let’s match two Sydney dairymen
To milk? Oh, no; to pump I
It is chronicled that Mrs. St. John made
“no defence at her divorce trial.” Why should
she ? Being a lady of lineage long, etc., she doubt-
less prefers to err in good company than to morally
shine with the unperfumed. We think so several.
A snake with claws was found near the
Manning River about a week ago. They are very
curious up there about what species of reptiles It
belongs to. We can tell them. It belongs to
the religious-editor species, and is common as
churches.
A French savant has discovered that the
next universal deluge will take place In 8159. Wo
can wait. At this rate, we have only six thousand
odd years to wait fop a conclusive settlement of
the N.8.W. Land Question.
Mrs. Hampson, the lady evangelist, has
left us after doing much good here. She made
many converts, most of whom are probably drunk
as ever by this time. Every missionary who comes
up. There rs no reason to wonder at this. Mudgee
is an abnormal town. If a man determines to live
there, he must get drunk and keep drunk. Once
he sobers up, he either has to leave or die. The
local papers are the chief cause of this.
The Shroud has a* proud paragraph in its
last issue about one of its travelling contributors
gaining a prize given by somebody or other for
the best essay on colonial timbers. We can see
nothing wonderful in this. Small thanks to him
for knowing so much about timber, when he has
the heads ot the staff to sample.
For pioturesqueness of phrase, it is not
easy to match the Newcastle Fletcher. Thus:
—“ Nihilists lurk in the very bosom of the Russian
Empire.” Evidently the editor is mixed in his
ideas; he confounds the Nihilists with Newcastle
fleas. It would be much rougher on the Czar if
they were.
It will be of interest to ship-passengers to
learn that two new features have been added by
the authorities to the Quarantine Ground. These
are a couple of Chinese lepers from Armldale. As
the eloquent Bradley says about the efforts of the
Zoo committee, “ no effert is being spared to make
the establishment attractive.”
Says an exchangeln Glasgow there
are 220 churches, yet it is the most drunken city in
the world.” Of course, what would be the use of
so many churches if it were not ? Sydney is a
pretty pious city, and yet tolerably hilarious
withal. It stands to reason. If there were no
sinners, there would be no saints. There is no
living for saints where everybody is honest.
A blind man was arrested the other day
on a charge of being insane. His insanity was
found to be of a kind common enough nowadays.
He had only £450 on him when arrested. It was
Just joy for us to read this. It justified the rule of
life we have laid down for ourselves—never to
pass a blind man without robbing him. There are
very few blind men.
We always thought there would be a
theatrical agent lost up North sooner or later.
And now it seems he is lost sooner. Somebody
saw him on a Queensland run the other day,
“without any clothing but a ’possum rug, and a
Eiece of jewellery made of tin, and shaped like a
eart, which occasionally he puts in his mouth.”
here makes converts in the same way. There is a
class in this city that lives upon conversion—con-
version and chicken-lifting. But the missionaries
don’t mind. They carry away with them all they
want. What is that ? why a feeling of holy satis-
faction [Humph I— Ed. B.]
Several mourners object to Chinamen let-
ting off fireworks over their dead at the cemetery.
We don’t see with what reason. Some people like
their fireworks before burial, some after. It is all
a matter of taste. Our taste inclines to the Chinese
fashion.
There is no limit to American audacity.
The latest phu 9of it is a movement in New York
to stop the r aging of church bells as “ unneces-
sary. We on T t wonder at this. Church bells are
certainly unnecessary to a people who have super-
annuated the Almighty.
Miss Blanche Reives (by the way, who is
Miss Blanche Reives?) delivered an address on
“ The Mission of Music” at Liverpool, N.8.W., last
week. We always thought that the mission of
music was to soothe the savage breast. Miss
Blanche has gone to the right place.
This is very funny, if we know anything of
fun. An observant old Chinese pagan was
released from the Mudgee gaol a short time ago.
He was seen in the town the other night ripping
around and yelling “ Hoop-la 1 hoop-la I Me all as
same pleeceman, hair cut short and drunk as
blazeel”
In Melbourne, a few days since, the Rev.
William Allen delivered a lecture on “Thomas
Chatterton, the Boy-poet and Suicide.” A church
choir rendered “ musical service ” during the even-
ing, and, finally, a collection was taken up in aid of
a cricket club. We consider this a good “ all round”
performance.
A pair of leg-irons have been dug up in
the suburbs of Brisbane in the bed of an old creek,
where they had lain about fifty years. Applica-
tions for these heirlooms must be addressed to the
Sheriff, Brisbane, with size of the ancestral ankles,
and any other evidences which will assist identifi-
cation.
A Mudgee paper marvels how it is that an
American town of 8000 inhabitants (Pullman) can
do without a drinking saloon or a gaol, while
Mudgee, with a population of only 3500, can hardly
get on with seventeen pubs, and a gaol and a lock-
Curious, isn’t it, that the theatrical nature clings
to the last to its tinsel jewellery? We have seen
actors who have not known where they were
going to sleep, and whose next meal was only a
vague possibility of the future, glittering with
gas-jet diamonds and gig-lamp studs.
In the year 1827, when the Kollopoii.t
Fumiqator commemorated its anniversary with a
grand picnic down the harbour, Cadwlnkle (who
was then sub-editor) came back to the office three-
quarter seas over. The type-lifters asked him how
he liked the outing. “ First-rate, wezy goodse,
my bub-bub-oys,” stuttered Cadwinkle ; and the
picnic was from that time known as a “wayze-
goose.”
A negress died In America the ether day
worth £lOO,OOO. She began life as a servant, saved
out of her wages, married a negro Congregational
minister, and—well, the little plate did the rest.
We suppose she is now pretty well up in the
gallery of glory. By the way, we wonder what the
colour of a negro soul is. If black, we are satis-
fied that we know plenty of white bodies with
nigger souls.
Zealous “bobbies ” andßlueßibbon Army
magistrates bewareA nextraordlnary case was
recently heard at Havelock (N.Z.). when a publi-
can named Aaron was charged with introducing
deleterious matter into his liquors. The allegation
was that defendant purchased croton oil from a
local medical man for the purpose of giving a dose
of the mixture to the chairman of the Licensing
Bench, Mr. Horton, who suffered very consider-
ably from the effects of the mixture.”
Now here’s a breezy little par. to find in a
duly blessed copy of the Express, the organ of
the R.C. hierarchy in N.S.W.: “A fashion item
says ‘ oval necks are more fashionable than pom-
padour squares.’ This fashion should be encouraged
Girls born with square necks don’t look as well as
those whose necks are oval.” And now. Father
Pat, that you’ve told us what kind of necks our
girls should wear, will you plaze say if you prefer
a seven-inch ankle, or one that is all beef to the
heels like a Mullingar heifer’s ?
Back-block shepherds paste pictures from
the Graphic and the Illustrated London News
Inside their “humpies.” This, Archibald Forbes
calls “ the evidence of the artistic instincts strug-
gling to make the little artistic best of very ad-
verse conditions.” He has entirely missed the
mark. Had a supply of strong brown paper been
served out to the shepherds, no ll'ustratlons would
appear on their walls. The engravings are on duty
there because the Graphic paper is thick and the
wind finds its way through the logs.
Some oaken piles lately taken out of the
Rhine, and believed to be part of a bridge men-
tioned by Osesar, have been bought by a Berlin
piano firm. Soon the sharp-elbowed-entertain-
oempany-for-your-hash-girl in the Phillip-street
boarding-house will be sledging out music from
those historic boards while the ghost of Caesar
holds on to the area-railings and weeps. But little
will that young lady care while she can manage to
baag out of the shrieking keys her “ little eight a
day.”
A young man was looked up at Goulbum
lately for snapping his fingers at a policeman.
This was, we suppose, considered another form of
contempt of court. A man has to be mighty care-
ful in these times if he wants to keep out of gaol.
We suppose, now, anyone caught laughing at a
policeman’s foot would be liable to imprisonment
with hard labour; and the misfortune of seeing a
member of the “foorce” taking delivery of half
a pie over a back fence would mean solitary con-
finement for a month. Yes, Indeed; it is getting
harder every day to keep one’s legs out of the
irons.
The Cooma Express is excited on the s b-
ject of green peas, the first of which was recently
brought in by a Mr. Holden, “ whose name.” says
the paper, “ has travelled beyond this district, tor
we notice that he is spoken of in highly com oil-
men tary terms in the Murrurundi Times.’’
Mr. Holden has now little more to hope for in the
wav of glory on this earth, though we have n >
doubt that the editor still lives in expectation—
of another bushel. It was a sweet sight, we are
told, to behold him, seated in the shade upon an
inverted bucket outside the office, giving the whole
of his editorial attention to the marrow-fats, and
now and then finding space for the insertion ol a
fistful. The Monaro district, by the way, is look-
ing up, and it is no longer permitted to a subscriber
to any paper to settle for his journal with second-
hand slabs or old kerosene tins, though the con-
stituents of some editors are still invited to square
up through the medium of carrot jam and salt
shark. Bluchers are also a legal tender fer an ad.
about a jaded bullock. And all the local papers
are still in " the place where it is demanded by
conscience to speak the Tereuth, impugn it whoso
list.” Booh I
The 44 boss ” experiment of the age has
come off near Swan Hill, on the Murray. Tne
farmer had started in the 44 ostrich" line. IJJJ;
female of this animal lays from 13 to 16 eggs, ana
requires to attend to them for two months beiore
the young birds make their debut to cheer her up
for all the delicate attention she paid them when
they were unable to help themselves. Well, to
hen was doing her level best to keep up a suppo
of caloric till the family came out. Sixty-two day*
is the time, and forty-one had passed, leaving true
weeks’ hatching to give the youngsters a rai
start. Then the mother laughed so heartilyai
joke made by a “bush missionary,” brougiß>
see her by the farmer, that she burst a blood-vewc
and died. The farmer saw there was not a inoroe
to lose. Summoning his wife, children, and dome®:
tics, he served them out with an egg
packed them off t 6 bed. He took one ’
and gave two to the preacher. For three m p
weeks those poor people remained in bee w
their eggs, but on the morning of the 62nd daj .
young birds crept from under the 9, 104
commenced pecking at some rusty nails anal'
ing stones that were lying about. The clergy® n .
eggs have not yet shown signs of anytnmg
usual going on Inside. It is whispered tna
night he remained too long out on P n '.'at®
ness, and allowed them to cool. But be et
denies it, and says, a little warmly, that, he
there for a year, or “bust” them. This we d
aider the champion experiment of our day.
the details can be thoroughly relied on.
MRB. (EX) ST. JOHN.
ACROSS THE WAY.
Across the way there lives a man—
We see him at this minute—
Who is, you Just can take our tip,
Considerably “in it.”
His house Is massive as a church,
With spacious grounds around it,
And every convenience there
That com can buy—confound it I
The garden glows with flow’rs In bloom,
Red roses and geraniums,
And many more things which to see
Just sets us off our cranlums.
That happy man, when he comes home,
Is met with smiles and kisses—
’Twould turn you green with envy just
To see his lovely “ missus.”
To see her take his coat off, and
His hat hang on the hat-peg.
You’d give the remnant of you life
To hang you/r hat on that peg.
He sits down to a table spread
With dainties we but dream of,
And smoking dishes fit for kings,
We can but smell the steam of.
While we up in a garret dwell,
Poor butts for Fortune’s arrows,
And live—worse luck—about as high
In both ways, as the sparrows.
And yet we do not envy him
His lot that looks so gay, sirs,
Because we know who visits at
The house when he’s away, sirs!
TWO JOKERS.
Two mercurial
Soft-goods clerks,
Up to every
Sort of larks.
One young man whom
They thought oft
Very quiet,
Very soft.
Fixed a game up.
Did these two,
On that young man
Raw and new.
Sent him note in
Female hand
Asking tryst—you
Understand.
Place appointed
Was Hyde Park,
At the corner
After dark.
There these Jokers
Planned to lie
Hid, and then that
Sawney guy;
When he came up,
Pert and grim,
They would rise, and
Bonnet him.
Young man, being
Guileless chap,
Fell right into
This nice trap.
To the Park he
Went, this cub,
With a bulldog
And a chib.
Two heads bandaged,
Two torn calves—
Bulldogs don’t do
Things by halves.
One young man who
Plays the fife,
Two smart Jokers
Lamed for life.


Wells’ “Rough on Corns.”—Ask for Wells’
“ Rough on Corns." Quick relief, complete, per-
manent cure. Corns, warts, bunion*. Motes,
Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents.
A police magistrate in a Queensland town
lately addressed an attorney in this fashion: “By
Act of Parliament you are a gentleman ; if you
want to insult lawyers here, you must go outside
the Court.” This Is a bull worthy of Sir Boyle
Roche. The Act of Parliament that the worthy
man referred to is one we should not be sorry to
see repealed. If it were, a good many manufac-
tured gentlemen in other places besides Queens-
land would be following in the steps of their
fathers. We mean the treadmill steps.
It is no wonder they call Ireland the Green
Isle. Its inhabitants are greener than their own
shamrock. You will not ask the meaning of this
remark when we tell you that Lord Wolseley,
speaking at a recent banquet in Dublin, said that
irishmen were the best soldiers in the world. And
the infatuated creatures at that banquet actually
cheered him when he said this. Stroke an Irish-
man the right way and he will go to Gehenna for
you. There are Irish bones on every battlefield
where the flag of England was unfurled to con-
quer. And yet Irishman is a term of reproach in
many an English mouth.
At last we have it — the weak point of
orthodoxy. It is the stomach. Touch a saint
upon the stomach, and you can make him talk
more wickedness in ten minutes than he could get
forgiveness’ for in a year. Bishop Turner is our
our authority. He told the Llsmore people re-
cently that free-thought was simply an excuse to
avoid the restraints of holy living. Whose holy
living ? Why, the holy living of the bishops and
parsons, to be sure. And what is holy living ? Fat
turkey and old port, of course. Therefore, beloved
brethren, rally up for the Lord —and fat turkey
and old port.
PETER BROWN.
There was a man, he had two wives.
His name was Peter Brown;
The one lived in the country, and
The other in the town.
And It would make you die almost
To hear how he would laugh,
When anyone would ask of him
Which was his better half.
They met, these two, a week ago,
Or more, perhaps, in t< >wn;
And now a double widower
Is this same Peter Brown.
A double widower is he
All clad in weeds of woe;—
And why we wrote this cussed stuff
Confound us if we know!
There are some nice, gentle children in
Parramatta. A. number of them (all under 8 years)
tied a groat’s legs and placed it on the railway line
—all waiting near at hand in eager anticipation of
a pleasing denouement. The goat was rescued by a
policeman, and no more is to be said about the
matter “in consideration of the feelings of the
parents.” Well, we “admire” this-we do. This
Is a case in which we somehow imagine the feelings
of the goat ought to be taken into consideration.
And this being done, each one of these juvenile
would-be vivlsectionists would require, before he
could be seated comfortably (at any rate, for the
next fortnight), to be provided with an air-cushion
and a crutch.
The French of the Melbourne Herald, for
as leading evening paper it of course does a bit of
French occasionally, is of the Charles XII. era. It is
gurgling musical, mellifluous. Naturally enough,
ft is badly spelled, but that's no great harm, and is
readily forgiven when you remember how long it
is since the time of Charles, and how; many things
have got lost since his day. But the Herald s
French is not nearly so ornate as its Latin. There
is a Virgilian polish about this that remindsyou of
the catacombs and the throne of the Ciesars.
When Winter, who “ doesn’t let a word In without
supervision,” goes over the proof of verbum
savienta solum est," takes his boots off the table,
and orders the printer to be careful and set up
every word of it, you can tell by his gaze that his
sensorlum is crowded with forms in togas, and
that he would give you more of it only he doesn’t
like to dazzle you.
The Liverpool Herald embarks in what
country scribes call “ the stormy ocean of jour-
nalism,” with this paragraph: —“The other night
a most inoffensive townsman was standing at the
corner of Macquarie and Scott streets when he was
shot in the breast with a rotten egg.” That was
after the first issue of the paper came out. The
egg was evidently intended for the editor. Though
we denounce this outrage upon a brother press-
man, we must admit that it shows there is con-
siderable critical faculty going to waste in Liver-
pool. But after the editor has been there a month
or two he will not object much to eggs being fired
at him, as long as they are not too ripe. When we
were editing a country paper, we never used to
wait for the eggs to come to us. We used to go to
them.
The Royal Commission now reporting on
the lately erected bridges should take a hint from
the old legend of the devil and the builder. The
devil told the builder that the bridge would never
stand until that which he held dearest was sacrl-
flced. We should propose M'Elhone as a sacrifice.
But, on second thoughts, this would be of no use:
the devil would be too frightened to come to fetch
him. And we can’t think of anybody else who
would answer the purpose, because most of those
who are dear to us the devil has either already
clutched, or is sure of sooner or later. The only
way we can think of to square the matter is to let
the devil take toll at one end of the bridge, and
the parsons at the other. If the devil came out
of this arrangement with his skin, we should be
astonished.
Fancy London Punch making an allegori-
cal figure of France exclaim "Ah, c’est char-
mantel’’ This is almost the same language
frequently used (until he was killed) by one of
Alfred’s reporters, who for years lived under the
delusion that voI au vent d la flnanciere meant
stuffed mutton; and, though in his last moments
it was endeavoured to persuade him that the
word “ rokerky ” was not numbered amongst the
idioms of Gaul, he passed away in the belief that
it was the purest Parisian. We notice, by the way,
that since the brilliant report of the speech of the
Carraciolo’s commander in the Herald, that
Journal has fought a bit shy of the Gallic tongue.
Perhaps they are waiting till they get their new
Frenchman down from Mudgee; and then it will
be advisable to disp tch the picnic Parisian to
resume his studies -at Jamberoo.
Who will say now that the Sydney D.T.
is not read? Some weeks ago it had a par. re
the Woolloomooloo tragedy. This paragraph has
been copied into several papers. To give you an
idea of the literary level upon which the editors
must stand who quoted it as a piece of fine
writing, we quote some of it ourselves “ Sur-
rounded, as wo are. ai d bathed in all the beauties
and fascinations of this lovely country and
climate, events sometimes happen that make us
Imagine that we are not men, but demons, and
that the sweet, gentle air we breathe is poison
from the bottomless perdition of hell, which seems
to govern and guide us. Who can read this hor-
rible story," &c., “ without feeling his soul blaze
with fiery wrath and righteous longing for ven-
geance on the doggery, the bestiality, that
outraged her?” The doggery 1 Was there ever
bathos so grotesque as this ? But there is more :
“ We cannotalter their shape, or turn them in the
form of the worse than brute that they are,” &c.
What form is this, in the name of Heaven? Then
follow such phrases as; “Thrice pestilent and per-
nicious vermin,,” “ red right hand of God’s
justice,” “heart full of flaming hatred," “spurious
wretched, weakness.” and so forth. And this is
what the sages who quoted it call “ forcible
writing.” Whew! This is the kind of thing
that makes farce out of tragedy; makes men laugh
when to laugh is almost a crime. It is curious the
Rum never makes anybody laugh until It attempts
to treat a question seriously. It is a pity, this,
because what influence this crazy journal may by
a stretch of the Imagination be supposed to possess
is thereby wasted. We are sorry such should be
the case, because it has so little to waste. We once
knew a man up North who used to write grisly
stuff like this, but he never wrote so unless he had
mistaken dog-poison for grog. We advise David
Buchanan to take an action against the Rum for
infringement of copyright.
SOMETHING SUPERIOR.
(TOWNSVILLE.)
QUESTION.
Mark her, with averted eye.
Sorry shadow flaunting by,
Cheeks bedaubed with cream of pearl,
Painted lips—who is this girl ?
REPLT.
You should that have quick detected.
She’s one of them, is that lass,
All “so carefully selected,”
Servants of “ superior class.”
Bulletin Essence.


The V.R.C. Spring Races.
THE DERBY DAY.
The greatest meeting of the Australian racing
year was commenced on Saturday, November 3,
under as bright auspices, in many ways, as could
possibly be wished, for the weather, at which
Sydney folk had been cussing and swearing during
the previous two or three weeks, veered roun I
with the new moon, and brought in the month on
Thursday with a genial, smiling face. As this re-
oountal of Saturday’s doings, to be followed as it
is by news by wire of the Cup day’s events, will
eat up as much space as you will have at disposal
on Tuesday, I must, perforce, postpone telling of
the course and its surroundings, with all the im-
provements to the Grand Stand, the state of the
running ground management, ct cetera, and con-
fine myself to the actual racing. Of course there
was immense excitement over the Maribyrnong
Plate, and especially among Sydney men, with
whom the city had been filling rapidly since Mon-
day afternoon ; and to illustrate the excellent
arrangements for travelling between the two me-
tropoli, I may mention that the latest accessions
to our ranks, v, ho left Kedfern at 5 p.m, on Friday,
lunched and “ war-painted ” in Melbourne at 1
p.m. on Saturday, and were in lots of time to see
the great two-year-old race started, over the
straight Flemington convincing ground at three.
However, I mustn’t shy off from the work; and to
return to the Plate, the field, which I told last
week, should be small if quality were taken into
account, had been reduced at paying-up time to
eighteen, the smallest number of starters since it
became an open race in 1873, there having been at
the post in the interval as many as thirty once,
twenty-eight, twenty-nine, and so down to nine-
teen, when Newminster won. This time, out of
the eighteen, Victoria had four representatives I
only, New South Wales nine, and South Australia
five, and the old colony scored the two first places. I
The Derby, as has often happened in other years, I
was made sensational enough by the firm winter- I
favouritism of one colt; for Archie, whose two- I
yoar-old doings transcended those of all the other I
tried ones, hold his own, at a very short price, for I
months, right through to the moment of starting; I
the untried Martini-Henry having his stable at his I
back with a very liberal support. The large in- I
vestments that had been made on the favourite, I
coupled with an utter absence of hedging money I
in the market, naturally prevented his price from I
lengthening ; and there were, besides, always J
backers ready to snap up any little shade over
what was looked upon as the market price. Since I
the colt reached Flemington he had been showing I
excellent work; though, as I have previously I
written from here, he did not finish his mile and a
half as he did a quarter less; but Mr. Smart being I
always about, with a quick response to any offers j
to lay the smallest odds, it became looked upon as I
a foregone conclusion for the “ crack ” two-year- I
old of last season to win the “blue riband.” The
collapses of Newminster, His Lordship, and Somer-
set appeared to be forgotten; and now Archie has I
but added another striking instance of the disad-
vantage of possessing a short first favourite for
the V.R.C. Derby. The results of the Maribyrnong
Plate and Derby have once more proved the benefit
of good work without sensational gallops; for
neither of White’s two-year-olds, nor his Derby
colt, showed the public anything in their work: I
and although, like most other scribes, I discarded
the one and made no mention of the other two, I
am more than ever satisfied of the fallacy of tram- I
ing by “ the watch,” a system I have persistently
cried down, until I have made some enemies among I
its apostles. The attendance, on Saturday, was I
larger considerably than on any previous Derby
day; the course in excellent order, and the state of
the elements added its valuable quota in favour of
fast time—which, as will be seen, was the rule
throughout the afternoon; having said which, I
proceed to the sport.
The business opened, sadly enough, by a col-
lision between Mr. Smart’s good filly, Delusion,
and Plunger, by which the former was killed on
the spot, and poor Higott, who was on Plunger, I
was terribly Injured. Delusion was taking her
preliminary along the rails up the straight, when
Pigott, who had finished his spurt, brought the 1
colt back round the stand turn, also on the inside,
the result being a frightful crash, which sent
Pigott high in the air, and landed him on the paling
fence, inflicting internal injuries, which, while I
write this, it la feared will prove fatal. Notwith-
standing the many friends who stuck to Le Grand
and First Demon for the Melbourne Stakes, Com-
motion started with only 6to 4 against him; and I ■
believe the Kingsdale party thought their chance 1
a certainty—an opinion the public didn’t endorse.
For the first time, Le Grand was called upon to
assist in a fast-run race; for Boolka made strong I
pace from the start, Commotion and Kingsdale
lying up, in front of the others, till be-
tween the Abattoirs and the Sheds. Here
the favourite went up on the outside, and, coming '
into the straight, took the lead, with all the rest 1
in trouble ; and, galloping on, the gallant son of
Panic won like a tradesman, in the easiest fashion, I
by three or four lengths. First Demon and Le
Grand ran a head-and-head race home, under the I 1
whip, from the distance, which the little Gemma
di Vergy hero won, after a right down game *
struggle, gaining second honours by a bare head.
The official time was2min. ll%sec. Commotion is :
by Panic from Evening Star. First Demon (bred i
by Mr. Kite, near Bathurst), by Gemma di Vergy, ;
from Lilian ; and Le Grand, by Epigram from im- *
ported Legend, dam of Lothair. Seventeen went I i
for the Hotham Handicap, for which my pick, 1
Bristol, started first favourite at 3to 1. Wallangra \
next, at a point more ; and I think the former ‘
would have won, had he not been jammed in on M
the rails, when twice attempting to make his final
run, a distance from home. As it was, Mr. Pid-
cock’s colt scored a comfortable win, which Harry I !
Raynor well deserved for his condition. So 1
far as I could make them out. Attache was in I ’
front, cutting out the work, at the far side, }
Dukedom also looking prominent; but after j
landing in the straight, Wallangra showed ]
out, and half-way up had a strong lead, which (
Bristol, through mishaps, was unable to quite ]
reduce, having to content himself with a good ;
second place. Time, 2 min. 50% sec. Wallangra i
(bred by Mr. Reynolds, of Tocal, N.S.W.) is by J
Kelpie from Thlrza; Bristol (bred by the Hon.
John Eales) by Clifton from Cerito; Dukedom by J
Maribyrnong from Duchess. When the dozen and J
>• half were weighed for the Plate, Garfield was *
first favourite at 3to 1, the next quotations being "
sto 1 David, 10 to 1 Helene, 10 and 12 to 1 against e
King’s Own and others, with 100 to 5 to be had
about the winner. King of the Gipsies, Bargo,
Venetia, and Honeydew showed first in front: 3
then The Broker and King’s Own came out; and s
Honeydew met with some disappointment through f
being crossed. Helene’s jockey was the first seen 1
to be hard on his mount; but all came on in a line r
to the distance, where lolanthe, on the inside, 1
rushed to the front, and had the race at once, i
finishing at her ease by lengths; King’s Own beat- fl
ing David, who finished verv fast, bj a length for r
second. Then came several, nearly in line across f
the course, of which I thought Honeydew and 1
Buckingham finished fourth and fifth ; the T
favourite and Helene never being in it. The a
time, 1 min. 2 % sec., is the fastest on record,
lolanthe is own sisterto Kingsdale, who ran second 1
last year, by Maribyrnong from imported Rose- I
dale, King’s Own (bred by Mr. Reynolds, of Tocal) 1
by Goldsbrough from Princess Alice, and David i
by Gondolier from Alice Drew ; Mr. A Town i
having thus the honour and credit of br> eding the ‘
winner this year, the second last year, and the I
winner in 1881. While waiting for the Derby, there i
was little interest taken in the Helling Stakes, t
though eleven started, and the favourite, Phan- t
tom, a grey whose colour shone out prominei tly f
all up the straight, won easily by a length and a 1
half, with Egei'ton second, and Mistake a couple of c
lengths away, third. Time, 1 min. sec. The 1
greatest excitement was apparent when saddling i
for the Derby was going on, Martini-Henry and (
Archie being each surrounded by an admiring ‘
crowd; but although Off Colour went out second i
favourite at 3to 1, those who saw him for the first 1
tline this outing declared he hadn’t improved a bit i
on his two-year-old appearance. From the way he £
pulled up he must have been fully “strung-up.” t
Tt was remarked afterwards that although the
fielders had been asking for 6t04 on Archie, t
there was plenty of even money against
him offering when the nags went out. The
race was one of the most curiously ridden, as
far as the favourite was concerned, it was ever my
lot to see; ior he (Archie) was evidently very
~ anxious to sail away at the start, and fought hard
for his head with Huxley, who pulled him right
back, as they rounded the turn, and soon took up
the position of whipper-in, dropping further be-
r hind all the way to the Abbatoirs. Little Sister,
i cutting out the work —to make pace, as I sup-
, posed—for Off Colour, soon established a clear
lead, followed by Off Colour, Sardius, Vernet, and
; Martini-Henry, the nine competitors presenting a
[ long Indlan-flle tail, at the far side; the favourite
still last, being 150 yards from the leader. Passing
the Sheds, Huxley let Archie out, and he made a
marvellous run of a furlong-past his horses, round
the turn for home, showing prominently on the
outside as they landed in the straight, and a shout
arose that he was winning. He, however, seemed
to dwindle off again, as he never looked danger-
ous afterwards ; and Martini-Henry, coming to
the front in the straight, was not again interfered
with, winning the fastest Derby on record, in the
easiest manner, by three or four lengths. Sardius,
running well up to his last trials, was second, and
the outsider, Hurricane, a length away, third; Off
Colour finishing fourth, and Archie (much to every-
one’s astonishment, after the way he had been kept
back) fifth. Time, 3min. 39sec. The winner, bred
by the Auckland Stud Company, and purchased at
weaning time by his present owner, is by imported
Musket from the renowned old mare Sylvia (dam
of Goldsbrough and Robin Hood); Sardius (bred
in South Australia, from New South Wales stock)
by Emulation from Ruby ; and Hurricane (also a
South Australian) by Countryman from Serenity.
Of course, there was great “talk ” over the “ cut-
up” of Archie; and Huxley was brought up
before the stewards. The inquiry was adjourned
till Monday, and I will send you wire of the result.
All sorts of people say all sorts of things ; but all
I need remark at present is that it was a wonder-
ful fiasco. The Coburg Stakes wound up the day,
with no fewer then 36 starters ; Olga, Paul, and
Bassanio being the favourites at 5 to 1 each, and
Paul won by a head after a splendid finish with
Frying-pan, The Joker (Mr. S. G Cook’s) being
third. Time 'wonderful for a mile and a furlong)
Imin. 55sec. Paul is by Maribyrn ng from Lady ;
Frying-pan, by Bethnal Green from Saucepan ;
and The Joker by Bismarck from Queen of Hearts.
Before giving a list of the winners, I may add that
the new Grand Stand is a splendid place to see the
races from; and gives the Press the only chance
they have had for years to get particulars of each
rac,-. accurately. New South Wales had a rare
throw-in with horses bred or trained there—Wal-
langra and Bristol, lolanthe and King’s Own, Mar-
tini-Henry and Paul, giving four firsts and two
seconds; and before this is read I believe the
mother colony will have produced the first and
second for the Cup. Commotion established his
right, by the way he danced home in front of First
Demon and Le Grand, to first place among Aus-
tralian racehorses; and, had Sir Modred started for
the Melbourne Stakes, the pair would have run
clean away from their followers. The New Zea-
-1 an dor 1 think will make his mark before the week
la out.
The following are starters for Saturday’s
races:— j
Melbourne Stakes, 1 % mile.—Weight for age.
Lon. W, Pearson s Commotion, 6 yrs. (Trahan), 1;
dr. J. Mondy’s First Demon, 3 yrs. (Nicholson), 3;
dr. D. S. Wallace’s Le Grand, 3 yrs, (O’Brien), 3.
Boolka, Dirk Hatteraick, and Kingsdale started.
The Hotham Handicap, mile and a-half and
distance: Mr. Pldcock’s Wallangra,3vrs., 6.7 (Ellis),
1; Mr. Mondy’s Bristol, 3yrs., 7.8 (Nicholson) 3; Mr. 1
Branch’s Dukedom, 3yrs., 6.10 (Moore). 3. The 1
Drummer, The Gem, Sardonyx, Baron Von Muel- 1
ler, Suwarrow, Footstep, Rhesus, The Marchion- 1
ess, The Israelite. Jasper, Josephine, Koh-
I-Noor, and Kathleen Mavourneen started.
The Maribtrnong Plate, for two-year-olds, I
5 furlongs: Hon. James White’s lolanthe (Ellis). 1;
Mr. Baker’s King’s Own (M’Grade), 2; Mr. Davis’s i
David (O’Brien), 3, Second King, Merrlmu, The J
Bohemian, Garfield, Honeydew, Buckingham, Coir, ,
Bargo, King of the Gipsies, The Broker, Bonne j
vortu’ie, Venetia, Helene, Gratitude, and Sandal ,
started. ,
The Selling Stakes, weight for age, 7 fur- |
longs: Mr. Leek’s Phantom (Robertson), 1; Mr W. ,
Bailey’s Egerton (M’Gregor), 2; Mr. Saqui's Mis- <
take (Burton), 3. Liddington, Country Squire, ,
Hannibal, Westbury, Snaveller, Tichborne, Bon i
Bon, and Chandos started. ,
The Derby, for three-year-olds, 1)4 mile: Hon. *
J. White’s Martini-Henry (Williamson), 1; Mr. (
Aldridge’s Sardius (Wyman), 3: Mr. Flemming’s n
Hurricane (O’Brien), 3. Archie, Senior, Off Colour,
Napier, Vernet, and Little Sister started, *
The Coburg Stakes, handicap, 1 mile and 1 fur- j
long: Mr. Leek’s Paul, syrs., 7.10 (Robertson),!; .
Hon. W. Pearson’s Frying-pan, 4yrs, 9.3 (Power), 3; ,
Mr. Cook’s The Joker, syrs., 8.3 (Trahan), 3. Stock- s
dale, Yately, Chuckster, Bordeaux, Bassanio, Con- r
tessina, Bar One, Olga, Cuba, Blue and White, Bis g
Bis, Stationer, Ironnand, Omelette, King’s Son, v
Forlorn, Prodigal, Black Diamond, Ironmaster, c
Peveril, Merrlgig, Wotonga, and Lady Beatrice *
started. It will thus be seen that the Hon. James j
White and Mr. Leek shared the honours of the day, j
each winning two races.
The following lists of Maribyrnong Plate and
Derby winners will be interesting. Maribyrnong f
Plate, 1871, Argus Scandal, by Ace of Clubs; 1872, r
Dagmar, by Maribyronong; 1873, Stockbridge, by n
Stockham; 1874, Maid of Ali Work, by King *
Alfred; 1875, Newmlnster, by The Marquis; 1876, a
Habena, by Yattendon; 1877, Vulcan, by Yatten- „
don; 1878, Nellie, by Tim Whiffler (imp.); 1879, 2
Palmyra, by Maribyrnong, 1880; Welcome Jack a
and Lavinia dead heat; 1881, Segenhoe, by Mary- „
byrnong; 1883, Narina, by Yattendon; 1883, d
lolanthe, by Maribyrnong. The fastest times have v,
been lolanthe, 1.2)4i Habena, 1.3% (doubted); u
Palmyra and Segenhoe 1.4. The Derby, beginning r
at 1867, Fireworks, by Kelpie; 1868, Fireworks, by t
Kelpie; 1869, My Dream, by Fisherman; 1869, (
Charon, by Ferryman; 1870, Florence, by Boiardo; r
1871, Miss Jessie, by Maribyrnong; 1873, Loup r
Garou, by Lord of Linne; 1873, Lapidist, by Fire-
works; 1874, Melbourne, by Panic; 1875, Robin „
Hood, by Fireworks; 1876, Briseis, by Tim Whiffler r
(imp.); 1877, Chester, by Yattendon; 1878 Welling-
ton, by Panic; 1879, Suwarrow, by Snowden; 1880, j:
Grand Flaneur, by Yattendon; 1881, Darebin, by
The Peer; 1883; Navigator, by Robinsin Crusoe; S 1
1883, Martini-Henry, by Musket. The fastest q
times have been Martini-Henry, 3.39; Darebin snd D
Navigator 3.4116 each; Chester and Suwarrow 3.43 i
each. 0
LATE SPORTING. £
The well-known horseman Pigott, who met with I
such severe injuries in the accident which proved a
fatal to Delusion, remained unconscious for some ft
hours, and so dangerous were the wounds ho L
received that Mr. R. H. Levien, Solicitor ol N 8. E
Wales, was called in to settle his worldly affairs, si
All Sunday his position was a very precarious one, n
and on Monday several telegrams were received h
recording his death; but the«e, happily, were wide K
of the mark. He is s owly mending, and great C
hopes are entertained of his recovery. Gough, ti
who was riding Delusion, got off with a severe a
shaking. a
The inquiry into the riding of Archie in the fl
V.R.C. Derby, and which has been the all-absorb- Ii
ing topic of the week, did not surprise those who p
heard the rum mrs. that were afloat on Monday; f
but Sydney race-goers were taken aback by the C
intelligence that Huxley had been accused of a
“pulling ’ the favourite. Hitherto this rider had o
been above suspicion, and has earned a first-class C
reputation as an honest, and well-behaved lad. o
besides being one of our most reliable jockeys, and ti
those who knew him best were more than b
surprised at his awkward position. Having a
had plentiful opportunities of noticing Huxley’s b
career in the pigskin, I couldn’t credit him with a
being guilty of such a dishonest act, and saw f
no reason to believe that the V.R.C. could do P
otherwise than exonerate him. That he either A
“lost his head” or committed an error of judg- 3<
ment, there can be no two opinions. Those who V
have noticed his riding are aware that he wins his 1
races in the last hundred yards or so, and never >
appears at the front sooner ; and I’m inclined to A.
think that lie lay so far off with the idea that A
Archie’s wonderful lash of foot would enable him 7
to “smother ” his field at any moment. Huxley’s 7
t explanation, to a certain extent, bears out the
3 view I take. The majority of the public are ever
s ready to “ squeak ” when their popular Idol Is put
r down, as witness the defeat of Segenhoe in
t Navigator’s Sydney Derby, Newmlnster and His
i Lordship in Melbourne Derbies, and Trump Yoss
b in the Metropolitan, There are numerous other
> instances I could mention, hut I eannot remember
- the overthrow of one “ big ” favourite that was
, not attributed to malpractice.
The annual sale of the Terrara yearlings was
■ held in Melbourne on Friday last, the fourteen lots
offered realising 3800 guineas. The yearlings were
as followsCh c by Robinson Crusoe—Lord of the
Hills mare, Mr.' truthers, 40 gs; br c by Robinson
Crusoe—Patch, Mr. A. P. Smart, 30 gs; br o by
Robinson Crusoe—Cracker, Mr. C. B.Fisher, 430 gs;
b or brc by Robinson Crusoe—Lady Laura, Mr.
MiKenna, 65 gs; ch c by Robinson Crusoe —Luna,
Mr. R. Howie, 165 gs; brc by Robinson Crusoe—
Melaine, Mr. Reid, 300 gs; b c by Robinson Crusoe
—Maid Marian, Mr. A. F. Smart, 370 gs; br c by
Robinson Crusoe—Ragpicker, Captain Haynes, 330
gs; b or br c by Piscator—Rose of Denmark, Mr.
B. Lee, 300 gs; br f by Robinson Crusoe—Dagmar,
Mr. O’Shannassy, 170 gs; brf by Robinson Crusoe
—Sunshine, Mr. Brewer, 450 gs; ch f by Robinson
Crusoe—ltalia, Mr. Whittingham, 110 gs; br f by
Piscator—Lady Spec (imp.), Mr. B Lee, 180 gs; b f
by Piscator Giovanna, Mr. Struthers, 80 gs.
Several lots were sold on accoant of other owners,
the largest prices being realised for the brooc
mares Sybil and Melesina, at 200 gs and 05 gs re-
spectively.
Two sons of King Tom, sold in Melbourne on
Monday last, realised (Morunder) 150g5., and
Bacchus 80gs.
Acceptances for the Clarence Amateur Turf
Club meeting have been declared as follows—
fesslonal Handicap: Acacia, Perryman, Glengaixr
and Shamrock. Gold Cup: Glengarry, The Uouul,
Acacia. Ferryman. Hurdles: Prince Leopold,
Rocket, Faust, Neddie, and Quicksilver. The
Brilliants: Acacia, Prince Leopold, Ferryman,
The Count, Glengarry, Shamrock, Countess.
There was no foundation for the rumour that
all wagers had been declared off over Archie in the
V.R.C. Derby, and backers must “ part” and look
pleasant.
LATEST SPORTING.
[By Electric Telegraph.]
Prom “Pegasus.”
Melbourne, Tuesday,
The Archie fiasco monopolises attention, and no
one gives a thought to the “ Consultation ” prose-
cution, in which proprietors have been fined. The
dismissing of the case about riding of Archie, in
Derby, is considered absurd (with the caution). Mr.
Clibborn has a telegram from the New Zealand Stud
Co., placing their yearlings in his hands for auction;
and they will probably be sold at the Randwick
Leger meeting—and comprise six or seven by
Musket, three or four by Leolinus, and others.
All yesterday the talk was of the late Dei by and
the coming Cup—the latter being considered a very
open affair; and it was rumoured that the outsider,
Claptrap, would run in the ring interest.
The Cup Day opened gloomily, but the sun shone
out about breakfast time, the heat being intense,
and when the exodus for the coursa began, about
10.30, clouds of dust gave warning that water-
proofs would be worth carrying. Crowds of
people early made their way out to the course, the
original grand stand being well packed with ladies
before the first race, the number of people 1
increasing steadily until the Cup time drew near. (
The odds on the Cup underwent no alteration, and i
I give the starting prices further on. There being
so many horses with parties at their backs,
caused nrices of favourites to be longer
than formerly, and nobody cared to speak i
of anything before the Cup. The start for the t
Hurdles (about three miles) was fixed for 1 o’clock, i
when the following eleven cameout:—Lady Hamp- <
den, 11.3; Joker, 11.0; Ontario, 10.12; Basilisk, 10.10; 1
Triplet, 10.8; Dizzy, 10.7; Ring wood, 10.5; Matador, 1
10.4; Lady Carrington, 9.12: Gambler, 9.9; Agitation, i
9.8. The favourite was ttmgwood, at a short price
and 5 to 1 bar one. The front rank was composed
during most of the journey of ttingwood, Lady
Hampden, Ontario, Basilisk, Matador, and two or l
three others, leading by turns, and ali came in i
good order past the stand. After once round, at 1
the fence near the Abattoirs, Basilisk fell, the i
order of the front rank remaining the same—
Ontario, Agitation, and Lady Hampden being pro- 1
minent as they turned for home. In the straight, <
Ringwood came to the front, and won in a canter 1
by many lengths; Lady Hampden, second; Agita- I
tion, third. The winner was ridden by Scobie: 1
Corrigan and Chaston on second and third horses. £
Time, 6 min. 40 sec. i
When the saddling bell sounded for the Kensing- 1
ton Stakes, five furlongs, eight sported silk, The £
Broker being favourite. Gipsy’s Warning made £
the running, and with Antoinette and Sirocco £
composed the front rank across the tan, where 1
Sirocco appeared to lead, and most were being i
ridden. Below the distance, The Broker had a i
strong lead on the rails, and keeping it to the end t
won by three lengths easily from Falkirk, who £
came under the judge’s box, and Antoinette was «
third. The winner is by Goldsbrough, from £
Melody, Sea Horse, Gipsy’s Warning, Antoinette, a
Parapluie, and Zenith were not placed. Time, 1
1 min. 3Hj sec. The winner was ridden by Quinn. a
After luncheon came the Railway Stakes, weight i
for age, one mile, the field being composed of I
Coventry. Pell Mell, Albury, Boolka, Signor, s
Taurus, Ike, Capri, Middlemarch, Vergy, Table-
top, with Ike in the position of favourite with 6 to i
4 on him, and Boolka at 4 to 1 despite his penalty t
of a stone. Tabletop led two lengths clear of Ike, \
Signor, Boolka, and Capri next past the abattoirs 8
and to sheds, where Signor was in the front divi- T
sion. Tabletop led into the straight and to the c
distance, where Ike challenged, and a grand race a
between the pair ensued to the Stand, where Ike
had his opponent beaten, and won by a length,
Capri being beaten half a length for second. r
Boolka was fourth, Vergy being absolutely last, £
1 he winner is by Piscator, from Lady, and was c
ridden by Halles, Nicholson on Tabletop, and v
O’Brien on Canri. Time, 1 min. 42)4 sec. jj
Intense anxiety prevailed while the Cup toilettes n
were being made. The penalties brought up n
Calma’s weight to 8.7, Martini’s to 7.5, Le Grand s y
to 7.5, and Demon’s to 6.12. The scratohings of £
Bordeaux, Vernet, Off Colour, Signor, Sir Modred, »
reduced the field to 39, and the betting before the S
start was 5 to 1 Martini-Henry, and 6 to 1 Despot, t
The big field got well away, it being almost im- “
possible to tell what were in front, till at the t
turn Clantrap on the inside was seen with the 0
command. For a few minutes Dukedom, Archie, g
Magnet, and Claptrap formed the front; but in the a
course proper Archie led, followed by Claptrap, 0
Linda, Aide-de-Camp, First Water, First Demon, q
and Martini. At the distance Claptrap was again ai
ft rat, then came Archie, Linda, Martini, Magnet, jj
Despot, First Demon, Kingsdale, Aide-de-Camp, £
Dirk Hatteraick being last. They all passed the w
stand in very close order, where First Demon ft
nearly fell. Along the river, Claptrap was half a
length in front of Archie, with Linda, Martini, y
Kingsdale, Aide, Lesbia, Despot, Dukedom, and y
Commotion following close. That order was main- q
tained to the bridge, where Archie had again j,
assumed command, with Claptrap, Aide-de-Camp, a
and Commotion next. Linda then ran up, and was e
first past the Abattoirs, with Archie two lengths n
in front of Martini, the others in same order: but q
pass ing the sheds Aide-de-Camp was next to Linda, p
followed by Commotion, Archie, and Martini. e
Coming to the turn, Claptrap, defeated, had retired,
and Aide-de-Camp wis in front, with Calma y
coming on the inside. In the straight, however.
Commotion came on with Aide, while several
others were looking dangerous. Below the dis- si
tanoe Williamson brought on Martini, the next a
being Commotion, First Water, and Aide-de-Camp. S
and the Derby winner still coming on, won easily o
by two lengths from First Water, who came with y
a great rush, and beat Commotion by half a length I
for second. Then came, in this order, Sardius, p
First Demon, Magnet, Aide-de-Camp, Recovery, u
Archie, with the others following. Time, 3min. f
30(sec. The starters were —Commotion 10.1, Sweet n
William 9.5, The Gem 9.4, Cunnamulla 8.10, Calma o
17, Archie 8 3, First Water 8.0, Magnet 8.0, s
Nicholas 8.0, Pollio 7.13, Dirk Hatteraick 7.11, ii
Anglesey 7.10, Corlolanus 7.10, Santa Claus 7.5, r
Aide-de-Camp, 7.5 Le Grand 7.5, Martini-Henry p
7.5, Recovery 7.2, Dukedom, 7.0, Koh-i-noor ■
7.0, Despot 7.0, First Demon 6.12, Lesbia 6.12, 1
3 I 6-H» Linda 6.10, Kathleen Mavourneen
[ 6.9, Bis-Bls 6.8. The winner, who was ridden
t by Williamson, Is by Musket from Sylvia; First
1 a^er ’ rldden by M’Grade, is by Fireworks from
• The Gem; Commotion, ridden by Trahan, Is by
i Panic from Evening Star. This was certainly the
• grandest Cup race ever seen, and was won in the
• fastest time—a quarter of a second faster than
i DarnwelTs.
The Darling Stakes was won from start to finish
by Phantom, beating Stockdale, Spark, and Bna-
veller in 2min. 41%sec.
Eighteen went tor the Tan Yean Stakes, which
was won by the favourite, Olga, 8.2; Chloris, 6.7, 2;
and Ironhand, 7.3, 3. Olga is a daughter of Plsca-
tor and Beatrce. Time, Imin. 433^sec.
The mosquito as a public singer draws well,
but never gives satisfaction.
Madame Elise Wledermann, an Austrian
prima donna, will shortly make he dihut in Mel-
bourne
A great fete is arranged for the Prince of
Wales' Birthday at the Sir Joseph Banks. Frank
Smith is arranging for extra trams.
That man was a true humourist, who went
I “Nap.” on Archie, and blew out his brains with a
Martini-Henrl, after the race.
On last Tuesday, a special train brought
from Melbourne to Sydney £260,000 in gold—just
upon 44 tons of thepure metal. It was deposited
in the Bank of N.S.W.
Monoure Conway commences his Sydney
I s?urse of lectures next Friday, in the Protestant
Hall, with a discourse on “ Toleration of Opinion,
and Pleas for Persecution.”
Consistency is a pearl of great price. The
Rum with one and the same alcohol-tainted breath
condemns St. Cup as a soul destroying demon and
lauds the Tribune racing prophet as the Krect
Kard,
Up North the drought is terrific. In a
I Pj, ace called Gillespie! all the water holes dried up,
I all the cattle died, all the settlers cleared out, and
the only person left behind was a Mr. Bell to toll
the knell of a departed settlement.
We are learning more every day we live.
We used to wonder, for instance, why the eldest
daughter at Blank-street hash-houses thumped
at the piano so much before meals. Now we know
why; it is to take away the boarders’ appetites.
THE “PLUNGER’S” LAMENT.
The sun it shines bright in the azure-blue sky,
All Nature looks smiling and glad;
But different—ah ! far—to Dame Nature am I,
For / look uncommonly bad;
Now, she charms our eyes with her beauty and
grace—
wu °h the first breath of Summer awoke—
WhQ e I loaf around with a frown on my face,
I Ve beento the “Cup ’’—and “gone broke.”
The drought has played havoc on the
Darling Downs, Q. On Jlmbour station, sold by
the late Sir J. P. Bell to a company just before his
death, 33,000 sheep perished ; and on “Bon
Accord,” a station made up of selections taken up
by G. Morris Simpson and employes, and for
which deeds were long refused on the grounds
that the land was dummied, 18,000 sheep perished.
The deeds of Bon Accord were finally Issued on
a mandate of the Supreme Court after long litiga-
tion between the owners and the Government.
In the season 1816-1817, the fiockmastors of
New South Wales burnt the wool shorn from their
sheep. There was no market of any kind available
t» them. The waste seems now shocking, but as a
matter of fact almost equally surprising and scan-
dalous waste of material is going on at the present
time. Every season thousands of tons of delicious
fruit is permitted to rot on the ground. There is
no market available, say the owners of this, which
is T'-ally property. But the f'Ct is that the ex-
planation is not a true one. There is a market, but
it requires some trouble and some enterprise to
pla< e the fruit upon it. There is no available
market, indeed, for the raw produce, because it is
perishable. But manufacture it. render it trans-
portab e and enduring, and there is market enough.
The fruit-growers of California say that they have
the whole world for a market, and their own choice
of a time to sell. But they can their fruit. Now,
why shouldn’t New South Wales also can her
fruits ? There is no better orchard country in the
wide world. The Parramatta orangeries, for ex-
ample, are celebrated even in Great Britain, and
there are scores of other fruits besides oranges
which yield just as abundantly. A prospectus in
another part of the paper Intimates that an
attempt to start this industry of fruit-preserving
and exportation is about to be made. We hope it
will succeed. If the canning and exportation of
fruit could be made a commercial success, another
Rem would be added to the productive resources of
the colony. In a score of years, the fruit-
growing Industry might attain proportions
almost equal to what the wool-growing in-
dustry exhibits to-day. In California it forms
an important item in the resources of the State.
All that is needed is pluck to make the attempt,
and prudence to guide the enterprise. A meeting
is to be held at Parramatta, in connection with
Mr. Statham’s proposals to adopt the draft pro-
spectus, elect provisional directors, and so forth.*
The actor is the most sanguine of men, and
the poorer he is the more sanguine he is. Probably
this is because poverty gives such a scope for
hoping. This is the only theory we can start to
account for the strange vagaries of professionals
who, after making a little pile by playing in
country towns, where the critical taste of the
audience finds its apex in the poundkeeper or the
bellman, coma up to Sydney to give us a sample of
their mettle, and drop their other metal for the
privilege. In the country they play to pay, in the
city they pay to play. But they are not dis-
couraged. They pla\ for fame, and they go away
wii h a bootful of it; which is all they want. Any-
how, it is ail they get. These remarks have
no reference to the “ grand combination of dra-
matic talent ” now playing at the Academy of
Music. We simply make them in a general way.
But, having mentioned the combination, we will
go further, and say that it consists of eighteen
performers—all “stars”—and a man that plays on
the bassoon. They opened on Saturday last, in
“ Queen’s Evidence.” Everyone knows, of course,
that mechanical effects are the principal feature
if this play. The mechanical effects produced on
Saturday night were certainly a feature. They
appeared to have been suggested by the experience
if the mechanist in making bailiff-barricades,
rhe “great lock scene ” must, as the programme
jays, “be seen to be appreciated;” and, when you
Have seen it, you want somebody to lead you by
the hand and put you in a little coffin. The man
vho designed it had evidently a hazy idea that
i lock and a lock-up were merely synonymous
terms. The acting, however, was not so bad.
Garry Simmons as Michael Thornton, and Sam
Howard as the Jew Isaacs, were both pretty good.
Fhe latter, by the way, is supposed to have “ a
leye like a heagle ”; but why Sam should suppose
m eagle’s eye is glazed, is more than we have the
snergy to think out just now. Mr. C. F. Searle
nadehis first appearance as Sir Frederick Sydney.
Fhe world could have waited longer for him. But
t could not have waited with such calm indiffer-
mce for Miss Alice Johrs and Miss Lizzie Morgan
vho really played very nicely. And now we
hink, you have got enough for your money.
Nowhere perhaps has the dentist’s art obtained
juoh high excellence as in Sydney. Certainly we
ire in no sense behind any other city. Visitors to
Sydney might, to test this, visit the establishment
if Messrs. Adolphe Gabriel and Company. 18 Wyn-
yard Square, two doors from Pfahlert s Hotel.
Here the manufacture of every essential in the
profession is carried on. At the rear of the surgery
is a compact little factory where all the requisites
for supplying every dental defect in the human
mouth are made. Messrs. Gabriel and Co. (whose
only address is as above) are always pleased to
show their specimens of artificial teeth to those
Interested. There being two firms of the same
name in the Square, patients will oblige by paying
particular attention to the Christian name, Aaofphe.
and the number, 18, two doors from Pfahlort’s
Hotel.—Ad vr.


Important Notice to every
Country Resident.
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS,
235 & 237 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Are making great efforts to increase their large
country trade. A Special Department tor the
exclusive benefit of those who reside away from
Sydney is now established.
The exorbitant prices country tailors charge are
almost prohibitive to many. We are changing al
this.
TRY US I TRY US I
If you wish to get a real good tailor’s-made gar-
ment, write for our easy manual of self-measure-
ment, sent post free to all parts of the colony,
with patterns, styles, and tape.
Sydney Prices, Metropolitan Pit
and Workmanship.
Suits, to Measure £J3 3 O
Trousers, to Measure u 16 6
ALL WOOL, AND SHRUNK.
ELL. Summerfield & Co.
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS.
ONLY SYDNEY ADDRESS-
-235 and 237 Pitt-street.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 6th November, 1883.
TENDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and SUP-
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
]
Nature of Works and Supplies
Purchase of Right to Collect
Tolls and Dues for years 1884
and 1885.
Bridge over Tilbuster Creek,
Road Armidale to Rockvale
Bridge over Castlereagh River,
Jonn-street, Coonabarabran.
Construction of Abutments and
Piers for four bridges under
Railway at Parramatta.
Erection of Lavatory, &c., Hos-
pital for Insane, Gladesvllle.
Erection of New Buildings in 1
Little Bay Sanatorium.
Alterations and Additions to
Gatekeeper’s Cottages on the
Richmond Railway.
Alterations and Additions to
Railway Station, Mount Vic-
toria.
Forming, &c., Riverstone Sta-
tion Yard.
Erecting Trucking Yards,
Warne.
Forming, &0., Granville Station
yard.
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received a t
this office.
13th November
at 11 o’clock.
30th November,
at 11 o’clock.
Bridge over German Creek, on
Coast-Road, Richmond River.
Construction of Tramway,
Waverloy to Bondi.
Bridge at Two-mile, Warram-
bool, road Walgett to Bury
Bury.
Alterations, &c., Albnry Gaol.
Additions, &c., Telegraph Office,
Deniliquin.
Bridge over Mulgrandra Creek,
Road Cowra to Forbes.
Erection of Station Buildings,
&c., at Cook’s River, Illawarra
Railway.
Erection of Station Buildings,
&c., Kogara, Illawarra Rail-
way.
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Nimitybelle.
Bridge at Old Mill. Road Liver-
pool to Campbelltown.
Construction of Foundations
and Piers for a Foot Bridge
at Orange Station, G. W. Rail-
way.
Cast-iron Pipes, North Shore
Water Supply.
Erection of Quarters, State
Nursery, Campbelltown.
Additional Rooms, Hospital for
the Insane, Parramatta.
Erection of Temporary Mount-
ing-room, New Lands Office,
Sydney.
Completion of Works at 'Trial
Bay Prison.
Bridge over Castlereagh Kiver
at Gilgrandra.
Construction of Gallery, Court-
house, Porbes.
27
a
27th November
at 11 o’clock.
11th December,
at 11 o’clock.
Extension of Tramway
Leichhardt.
Supply of Rolling Stock, Kail- I 181
way Department. | a
18th December,
at 11 o’clock.
New Dock, Cockatoo Island, I &
Contract No. 2.
I a
, I Bth January,
1884,
at 11 o’clock.
’ 10th February,
| 1885,
' at 11 o’clock.
F. A. WRIGHT.
Manufacture and Supply
160,000 Tons of Steel Kails.
of
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 29th October, 188 J.
TENDERS FOR ADDITIONS.
TENDERS are invited for the erection of addi
tions to the Teacher’s Residence, at the
uiakehurst Public School, near Kogarah
Plans and Specifications maybe seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Additions to the
Teacher s Residence, Blakehurst Public School,”
must be lodged with the Acting Under-Secretarv
Department of Public Instruction, at or before
a,lu, » on Monday, the 19th November,
loOu,
The Minister does not bind himself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
G. H. REID.
Political
Points
According to legitimate descent the actual
head of the House of Bourbon is now Don Juan.
Until the death of the Comte de Chambord, few
people had ever heard of Don Juan. He Is a man
who is only to be understood by reference to bis
son. In fact, he is the father of Don Carlos, the
pretender to the Spanish throne. Don Juan is a
vagabond ; his wife separated from him long ago,
and lives in a Convent in Austria. Don Juan I
How history does repeat itself, to be sure I
Mr. David Gaunson is anxious for the pub-
lication of a dally Hansard. Since his return to
the Victorian Assembly, David believes he has
said a good many things that the world would be
sorry to let die, if only It knew about them. But
the Melbourne newspapers, after doing their best
to keep him out of Parliament, vie with each other
now in making him occupy as little of the time of
their readers as possible. David is not altogether
undeserving of sympathy. He is liberally slated
in the metropolitan press for manifold and rami-
fying transgressions. When his brother senators
throw their vituperation at him, it comes out cor-
rectly spelled, and as long as Nature made it, in
next morning’s issue; but when David asserts his
majesty and hurls shafts that make foes tremble,
when he clenches his fists and spits his sentences
around the chamber, every word as bitter as gall,
and every phrase as sticky as birdlime, next morn-
ing’s issue only says, “ Mr. Gaunson was quarrel-
some and violent as usual.” A daily Hansard Is
a big undertaking, but to give David a chance of
getting square with his ungenerous foes, it does
not seem that it would be money wholly mis-
applied. But let us sing:
A majority in the Legislative Council hav-
ing thrown out the Government Bill to deal with
Contempt of Court, the people of the colony have
petitioned in vain. It remains to be seen whether
their representatives will submit tamely to see so
definite a snubbing administered by a few irre-
sponsible nobodies to the public at large. Sir
Alfred Stephen is the hero of the business. It was
an exposure of the Andersonian system of
charity, carried on under the tegis of bis
name, which has been mainly instrumental
In bringing about a series of occurrences
that have directed public attention to the
anomalous condition in which the practice in
relation to contempts of Court stands. Sir Alfred
stuck by his proteges through thick and thin
with a fidelity which could scarcely have
been exceeded by Sir William Manning’s adher-
ence to a brother Judge.” At the same
time, It is only proper to acquit Sir Alfred of
bemg actuated by a determination to prefer
the Andersons’ cause to the interests of good
government and public tranquillity. He has in
this matter acted as though he considered hlm-
self the mouthpiece of a class which regards
P e 9Pl®” M created for the benefit
of their betters —as a race of helots to be hum-
bugged, despised, lived on, and laughed at. The
public of New South Wales will not readily lose
sight of the fact that this knight, who flouts their
petitions, and loftily Intimates that they are such
fools—compared with him—that they don’t know
what is good for them, has lived on them all his
life, and is to-day a pensioner —not so much now on
their bounty as on their purse—whether they like
it or not. It is quite natural that a man—we
?.PP^°? 18e > since it seems that those beings a
little lower than the angels, who constitute the
aristocracy of the Upper House, are not to be
classed as men whose position is so anomalous
should oppose the removal of anomalies In gene-
ral. His own position contravenes some or the
essential principles of constitutional Government.
He is more independent of the people than any
constitutional monarch. If a Sovereign of Great
Britain attempt to rule by arbitrary methods, or
turn a deaf ear or a scornful face to the petitions
of bis people, they have at least the resource of
withholding his Income. But a pensioner like Sir
Alfred Stephen, taking part in the government of
the community, can snap his fingers in their faces,
deride their most earnest petitions, and take their
money all the same. We are aware that it has
been customary for sycophantic persons to lay
stress upon Sir Alfred’s distinguished services.
We have never joined in this salivate chorus.
We have never believed in it. Our conviction
has ever been that, for every pound’s worth
of service Sir Alfred Stephen nas executed,
he has received forty shillings. At the pre-
sent time he is a survival of the politi-
cally unflttest, and protracts into modern
times the governing principles and ideas of
a period in Australian history which the com-
munity looks back upon with loathing and
abhorrence, and would fain obliterate alike from
its ethics of government and from its pained
memory. The ex-Chief Justice appears unable to
realize that this is no longer a community in
which to bo a free man is to be distinguished, and
In which the mass of the population hold the small
measure of freedom they enjoyed as a concession
of grace, and subject to restriction at the caprice
of their rulers. There is but one relic of that con-
dition of affairs left a tong us, and that is the
gower usurped by the Judges of the ,Suprerno
burt to treat as outlaws any citizens who are so
unfortunate or so bold as to do or say aught which
can be constructed Into a disregard of their
untrammelled supremacy in matters once brought
under their cognizance.
In ftbe N.S.W. Assembly, the other night,
Harry M'Quade opened his mouth. Then there
was a breathless silence in the chamber. But he
only got up and walked out alter the iunlor mem-
ber for Newtown. He subsequently explained
that he hadn’t intended to electrify them on that
occasion, but wanted Mr. Mitchell to creep in and
•ee if he had swallowed his eye-glass. By the way,
Harry is one of the swellest or all the country
members. Nothing less than the Royal Hotel, if
you please I And this reminds us that people are
always asking us for “ the Giraffe’s” town address.
When Parliament met last, and Mr. Barton's wig
appeared on the scene, it was murmured that as
A.G. gave his address on his ads., “Legislative
Assembly,” that he camped at night on the Minis
terial benches, wrapped up in the Speaker’s
peruke.
• ■ •
“My constant solicitude—the welfare and
happiness of my people,” appearing in the Queen’s
speech, a vulgar c ' Radical ” rag says “ The
Court seems exceedingly fond of looking after
the monetary welfare of its connections. But if
the Court were as anxious about the well-being of
“ my people,” the civil list would be cut down
one-half, and abolish many thousands of highly-
paid sinecures. ’ Some people are born grumblers.
There is sometimes trouble in Ireland over the
drinking the Queen’s health. It has often been
asked whether Her Majesty at dinner drinks to the
health of her subjects who provide for her?
Surely if Her Majesty neglects her etiquette, one
cannot be so terribly surprised that a certain
portion of her subjects forget theirs. It is more
than probable that if the Queen were to pay a
little more attention to her Irish subjects, we
should not be troubled over such frivolities.
The Queen hasn’t been in Ireland for Heaven
knows how many years In the House
of Commons, on a recent evening, Mr. Healy
asked the Chief Secretary whether his atteu-
tion had been drawn to certain language used
inan English provincial newspaper (laughter), to
this effect:—“Our political fortunes are directed
by a hypocrite, who is also a blood-guilty tyrant,
and a conspirator against the honour of his country.
This hateful and atrocious Gladstone (laughter),
whom it would be flattery to call a rascal (renewed
laughter), has associated with him in Government
Ignorant and incompetent nobodies. About the
only conspirator with any brains is a fellow named
Chamberlain (loud laughter), who made screws, or
something of the sort, at Birmingham.” England
must surely have a prototype of David Buchanan.
Mr. Labouohere, writing in Truth, ex-
presses his opinion that General Booth is either “ a
mad fanatic or a designing knave.” It seems that
the General, who has purchased the Eagle Tavern
and Grecian Theatre with the Army money, is now
running the place as a public-house, being un-
willing to sacrifice the gain that accrues from the
liquor i traffic, until such a time as the present
holder’s lease of the tavern shall have expired.
Truth and Figaro are, in point of fact, making
things rather tropical for the gallant commander.
General Booth, they say, lives in a big house, and he,
with his family, browses on the fat of the land; and
Labouchere, in particular, seems interested in
finding out par ou qu'on passe . We might ask
something similar about some of our “ ’oly
hoffleers. A casual glance at the Weekly
Screech divulges the fact that someone in Sydney
is doing excellent work. Here is one of his ads.
“ C! IBTBRS, we are making arrangements for
your Uniforms Keep believing.”
The “testimonies” continue to flow in, and at
Newtown they had “ REAL HOLY GHOST IIME.
On our ay to the hall, someone, through yielding
to the devil’s devices, PELTED US WITH ROTTEN
EGGS.” One convert found “smoking a hind-
rance to holiness,” and “ No. 3, a sister, found that
she loved her feathers, and could not get the bless-
ing until she gave up all.” The “Happy Coach-
man,” too, is still in a high condition of glory, but
not more than the “ Washed -In - the - Fountain
Pugilist,” whose testimony is as follows“ ‘ Thank
God, lam saved, I am known as Jimmy Niff. I
have,’ he said, 1 fought Big Ben and Yorkey to my
sorrow. Seven years ago I had the organs of my
face broken.’ ” In return for their highly success-
ful efforts in a general bombardment of the devil,
the officers have the handling of a lot of
money. A London paper states that the balance-
sheet forwarded to it by Booth is a document
about as intelligible as the hieroglyphics upon the
Chinese tea-chests, and jpi idea seems to be spread-
ing that the game of Salvation ft a pastime of a
lucrative description. Tne Sydney authorities have
not bothered us personally with a balance-sheet so
far, but we suppose they will do so shortly. We
want to find out who’s battening on our shilling.
Thus the Liberal : “ Y.M.C.A, Palace
foundation stone laid. It will be a notable im-
provement to the city. Would that it were to be
a house of freedom instead of bondage I Over
£13,000 contributed to this Christian club-house.
No lack of money from the believers in hell, and
those who desire to stand well with them.” And
this, also from the Liberal, Is another snarl ;
“ Among the things which the ‘ Lord ’ loveth not,
it appears, is the kicking of a ball about upon his
day. So affirmed the police at the Secular Society’s
picnic. What a convenient ‘Lord’ it is, who dis-
likes whatever the church-people dialikel”.... W.
B. Christie is evidently getting blue-mouldy for
want of debating. He’s In a groat fume because
Walker won’t accept him as the second of the
Deity in the affair that Walker has with that Being.
Perhaps it’s as well for Severn' people that Walker
declines to meet W.B.C And, as Providence, un-
aided, is probably quite able to manage the garru-
lous Walker, we would recommend Mr. Christie to
employ any leisure he may have in getting some
more exact notions about evaporation into his
head, instead of in prancing around calling upon
the universe to witness that Walker won’t let him
tread on the tail of his coat
A certain church is greatly agil ated over
the question as to whether it is proper to receive
money collected through the means of a social
dance. And yet the same congregation would
accept, without even as much as a blush, money
willed to it by a lawyer, or the grocer who got rich
by sanding his sugar 1.... A H.C. priest at Liverpool
(Eng.i has fled with some hundreds of church
funds, the companion of his flight being
a young girl. And there is a vacancy waiting to
be filled up by any young lady desiring to enter
the High Church establishment at Clewer—the
vacancy being caused by one of these good ladies
having chosen to elope with a Life Guardsman.
The cavalry barracks are at no great distance from
the sacred building.
THAT MAP AG AIN-MINIMUM OF CONFLICT BETWEEN SQUATTER AND SELECTOR.
MEMBERS’ MAUNDERINGS.
The world requires a full report
Of all we say and do—
A record of each rude retort
(And they are not a few).
Let mankind know how “ Members warmed
Until they came to blows;”
Each voter pants to be informed
When “ nis man ” blows his nose.
Admiring men (in our idea)
Will be immensely pleased
To shed a salt and silent tear
Whenever we have sneezed.
Our “hum's!” and “ha’s!” with much concern,
Will every day be read:
And all will be rejoiced to learn
Which Member scratched his head.
The father, with his morning meal,
Will greedily devour
A “ speech ” which makes his blood congeal,
And turns his porridge sour
(For, when we take verbatim form,
The bravest man, ’tis plain.
Is bound to feel a passing qualm
At sight of English slain).


The Referee
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general .l
RACING INDEX.
Readers will find the column regularly
headed with a list of fixtures to be attended to
within the month; followed by names and dates
of Race-meetings to be held in the more distant
future.
THE MONTH’S FIXTURES.
Victoria R.C. Spring November 8,10.
Canterbury (N.Z.) J.C Novembers.
Coolah General Entry November 8.
Nyngan Handicaps close November 8.
Picton General Entry November 8.
Baradine Entries and Weights November 8.
Williamstown R.C. (V.) November 9.
Clarence River J.C. (Amateur) November 9.
Coolah (Annual) November 9.
Yass Races November 9.
Moi peth Races November 9.
Baradine Races November 9.
Monara J.C November 9.
Picton Races November 9,10.
Q.T.C November 9,10.
Tamworth Weights November 10.
Auckland (N.Z.) R.C. Races November 10.
Murrumbidgee T.C. Wagga, Weights Nov. 13,
Nyngan Weights November 15.
Murrumbidgee T.C. General Entry Nov. 16.
Narandera Acceptances November 16.
Temora Handicaps close November 16.
Murrumbidgee Acceptances November 20.
Nyngan General Entry November 21.
Druitt Town Entries November 21.
Druitt Town Weights November 23.
Murrumbidgee T.C November 21, 32, 33.
Nyngan Races November 22, 23.
Druitt Town November 24.
Tattersall’s Cup Weights November 26.
A.J.C. Summer Cup Weights November 26.
Warlalda Acceptances November 26.
Narandera General Entry November 27.
Bendigo J.C. (V.) November 28, 29.
Narandera J.C November 39,80.
Hartley District J.C. Spring November 29, 30.
Liverpool J.C. Entry December 1.
Campbelltown Handicaps close . December 1,
Bega Entry Closes December 3.
Candelo Entry .. .. December 3.
Temora General Entry December 4.
A.J.C. Summer Cup, and December Stakes,
first forfeit December 6.
Tattersall’s General Entry December 5.
Tattersall’s Cup, non-acceptances December 5.
Wallsend Entries December 5.
Campbeiitown Weights Decernner 6.
Temora Races December 6.
Campbelltown General Entry December 10.
Bega Weights December 10.
Liverpool Weights December 11.
Liverpool General Entry December 11.
Wallsend Weights , December 12.
New England Handicaps close December 22.
Bega Acceptances December 31.
S.f.C. GeneraiEntry January 3, 1884.
New England Weights January 7.
New England Acceptances January 17.
Wallsend non-accept December 19.
FUTURE RACES.
Tamworth R.C. (Summer) December 4, 6.
Warialda J.C December 12,13.
Camden and Campbelltown J.C. Races Deo. 15.
Liverpool J.C. December 22.
Victoria Amateur T.C December 26.
Pleasant Creek (V.) December 26.
Clarence TatterspU’s J.C December 26.
Gunnedah December 26, 27.
Wallsend December 26, 27.
Tattersall’s (Annual) January 1,1884.
V.R.C January 1.
Bega J.C. Races January 10,11.
New England Races Janury 25, 26.
Sydney T.C January 26.
Tasmanian R.C. (Summer) February 13,14,16.
Wanganui (N.Z.) J.C. Autumn March 6, 7.
Hawkeshury R.C. (Autumn) April 3. 6.
Candelo Races ••. .January 2.
Coonabarabran January 24, 28.
AQUATICS
Balmain Regatta November 9.
Champagne Cup ... November 17.
Bush v. Trickett December 1.
Manly Rowing and Sailing Club Regatta. ...Doc. 15.
All Comers Regatta December
National Regatta January 26, 1884.
CRICKET.
Melbourne v. N.S.W. at Melbourne Dec. 26.
ATHLETICS.
Wallsend Athletic Club Meeting November 9.
Bathurst Sheffield Handicap November 9.
Junee Junction Sports .. .Nov. 9.
Hay Athletic Club Sports — Deo. 26,27.
Blayney Sports. Dec. 26.
Wrestling Match, Cobar December 26.
BICYCLING.
N.S.W. Cyclists’ Union Race Meeting Doc. 1.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“W.R.A.” (Camden): Mischief was the
dam of Maid of All Work, First King, Petrea, and
Second King. “Time Test” (Berrima) : It’s the
astest Derby in Australia. “ W.0.F.” (Glebe):
Mace and Sayers never fought.
The Budget.
[By New Warrior.]
Our Index tells of a lengthy list of fixtures to be
decided on this Friday, the birthday of England’s
future King, and almost every country town
boasts of its day’s racing on the 9th of November.
Sydney sports are too much wrapped up in the
doings at Flemington to trouble themselves about
the small “ pickings ” to be had nearer home; but
as I hear encouraging accounts from the various
places mentioned in our Index, it’s only reasonable
to suppose that the good folk of the different dis-
tricts will be well looked after in the matter of
sport. To those interested, be it known that on
this Thursday entries are called for the good things
on the Coolah, Nyngan, Baradine, and Picton pro-
grammes, while the weights for Baradine are due
on the same day, but all save Picton are too far off
to trouble racing folk in and around Sydney. The
weights for Tamworth handicaps will be declared
on Saturday, and those all-important ones for
Wagga on the following Monday, with Nyngan
weights on Thursday. Then, on the 16th, which
will be Friday, owners must not forget to nomin-
ate for the small goods on the Murrumbidgee pro-
gramme, and with the acceptances of Narandera
and entries for the Temora handicaps to close on
the same day. my list of reminders is wound up
for the week.
Tipsters to a man must acknowledge themselves
beaten over the first day of the V.R.C. meeting at
Flemington, and as to myself I confess to being
fairly at fault. The overthrow of the “odds on
favourite Archie in the Derby, where he failed to
run into a place, has surprised me greatly, aim ly
because I don’t believe in the official time given—
-2.39 Of course, if it be correct, then there's no-
thing to be wondered at In the defeat of Archie or
anything else, as such wonderful going speaks for
itself. The disgrace of the two big favourites in
the Maribyrnong Plate is also easily understood,
the time alone being sufficient, and it’s the fastest
ever run at Flemington by nearly a second and a-
balf, while the Derby improves on all other pre-
vious ones to the tune of 2ft seconds. 1 shall never
be able to understand Martini-Henry’s running,
for his work didn’t warrant anything but a second-
rate opinion being entertained about his chance,
and lolanthe’s doings on the training grounds
were such as to cause 100 to 5 to go begging
at the fall of the flag. King’s Own’s run-
ning proves that he is undoubtedly the best
colt of his year : and such consistent form
adds a well-deserved fillip to the credit of Princess
Alice, and to that young, though so far successful,
sire, Goldsbrough. We are told that lolanthe
won easily: and two such great outside victories
go still further to prove the utter uselessness of
“touting.” The more seen of lolanthe 'he less
was she liked; and each day’s doings of the Derby
winner put his friends off more and more, and he
gradually receded in the market until 7 to 1 was
freely offered. It is needless to tell here how the
the race was run, as that will be fully described
by our “Pegasus”; but he appears to have won
easily. From the accounts to hand, lolanthe never
gave her field a show In the Maribyrnong Plate,
and won all the way: while the much-vaunted
“flyers,” Garfield and Helene, failed to show a
bold front at any part of the race. Commotion
easily put down those opposed to him in the Mel-
bourne Stakes, including First Demon and Le
Grand, and fully sustained his claim to the
title of champion. Le Grand’s running didn’t
astonish me, as I really thought he never once met a
racehorse until he stripped against Commotion;
and, although I didn’t wish to detract from the
merits of this son of Epigram, I considered him as
having hitherto been one of the luckiest of horses.
Wallangra scored a win for New South Wales in
the Hotham Handicap, beating Bristol after a good
race; and Phantom, who was served up warm in
the Selling Race, landed a nice sum for his party,
and the same ownership boasted possession of the
Coburg Stakes winner, Paul.
I am not, by any means, sorry to see the Hon.
James White s stable score such a complete
“ throw In;” but that a great portion of It was very
much unexpected, I don’t doubt. Mr. Fennelly
has, Indeed, reason to be proud of his success, and
the “ carping critics ” who have repeatedly laughed
at his capabilities as a trainer must at least give
him credit as the most successful in his line during
the meeting.
Allsopp appears to be great in running seconds
in Maribyrnong Plates, both last year’s second—
Klngsdale—and King’s Own, who occupied that
unenviable position this time, having been trained
by him; ana as there’s no more painstaking trainer
going than he, it’s a pity fortune doesn’t smile on
him to the extent of a good win. Still, it’s a great
Serformance for so young a trainer, who has only
•led twice, to “run up” each time.
Mr. James Wilson has met with a very severe
loss in the death of his valuable brood mare, Mis-
chief, which took place a few days ago at St.
Albans. The mare, It seems, was taken ill in the
evening, and being unable to deliver the foal,
which was found to be dead, the services of vete-
rinary surgeons were called into requisition; but
the case proved hopeless, and Mischief gradually
sank and died. Mischief was by The Premier from
Maid of the Mill by Rory O’More, and gave the
turf such performers as Maid of all Work, First
King, and Petroa; so that not only does the loss
fall heavily on the owner, but the turf of Australia
loses a celebrity.
Visitors to Randwlck, especially those who
Eatronise the large army ox small bookmakers
ettlng outside the saddling-pai’dock enclosure,
are in future to have some protection afforded
them, the A.J.C. having passed a by-law to charge
bookmakers betting in the Leger Reserve an
annual fee of £lO. This is a move in the right
direction, and will rid the course of the welshing
fraternity, who will In future be relegated to
obscurity. The A.J.C. would do well to nave ail
applications endorsed by two or more well known
persons, so as to avoid the registering of any un-
desirable or doubtful characters.
The accident to Delusion in the Melbourne Stakes
which caused her death was a Jgreat blow to the
stable, for there could be no two opinions concern-
ing the mare’s qualities; and when I heard the sad
news, it sounded ominously Indeed for the repre-
sentatives of the Warwick Farm stable. Messrs.
Forrester and Smart have not had a fair share of
fortune’s favours, and the disgrace of Archie in
the Derby wasn’t surprising after such a com-
mencement. Her late owner gave XOOOgulneas for
Delusion, who was by The Englishman out of
Deceptive; and beside being one of the best fillies
of her year, she must have been invaluable at the
stud.
The results of the Maribyrnong Plate and Derby
gave a great “staggerer’ to the large army of
backers; and although a select few, comparatively
speaking, won over the Derby, the public are
great losers, and the majority of the fielders big
winners. Save the win of Calma at Caulfield
backers of favourites have had for a long time a
severe deal, and I won’t be at all sQrprised to learn
that settling-day comes and goes and many backers
fail to answer the roll-call.
That hero of a hundred fights, The Barb, or
“ Black Demon” as he was familiarly known,
will be offered for sale on Monday next in Mel-
bourne. He is twenty years old, but I’m told as
“ gay and fresh as a two-year-old,” and though be
never got anything very brilliant as a racehorse, if
I exclude Tocal and The Barber, the performances
of these two are of sufliclent merit to warrant a
good big figure being paid for him, and I should
like to hear that he has been mated with a few
high-class mares.
CUP SKETCHES.
(By our Special Artist).
1. On the Lawn. 2. “Here they come!” 3. “ Let’s see; do I owe you money, or you owo me.” 4. In the paddock.
5. Thoroughbred Fillies. 6. “Do take me, Pa.” 7. After lunch; artist’s too vivid imagination.
8. The few necessaries Mrs. Sponge couldn’t leave Sydney without. 9. In the Enclosure.


Tuesday’s Nvmagbe and Cobab Stab an-
nounces, “There is a good opening in Nymagte
now for a solicitor,” But it prudently withheld
the fact that the opening was the mouth of a big
tank. Heavy rain fell up there the day before,
and the Nymagees thought it would b« high fun
to see a shark make a splash.
bkiNint Men—‘Wells’ Health Renew er” re-
stores health and vigour, cares Dyspepsia
Impotence, Debility Moses, Moss & Co., Sydney.
General Agents.
The Victorian authorities have made an example
of the sweep promoters who were arrested
a few days ago, and they have been mulct
in large penalties; but it certainly seems strange
that while a raid was made on the small fry of
the big ones were allowed to go on
without interference.
From exchanges, I gather that the Candelo
Jockey Club have decided to hold races on the 1st
and 2nd of January, and added money to the ex-
tent of £315 has been promised, together with a
very handsome gold cup, but not having the pro-
gramme by me, I cannot tell further particulars.
I was very pleased to hear of a successful meeting
being got through at Berrima last week, but re-
gretted not being present. The racing appears to
have been tip-top all through, and as the manage-
ment was good, race meetings at Berrima are
likely to grow into prominence with Sydney folk,
who always contribute largely to the attendance.
The sale of the racecourse properties in connec-
tion with the coming meeting of the Murrumbidgee
Race Club, will be held on the 15th November in-
stead of the 10th, as previously decided on.
Mr. Thomas Stewart Informs me that Belvldere
met with such a severe accident to one of his
shoulders while racing at Berrima that it’s very
doubtful whether he will carry silk again. I
hope the injury may not turn out as serious as an-
ticipated.
BERRIMA DISTRICT RACES.
First Day—Tuesday.
Trial Stakes: Raven 1, The Demon 2, Sir Robert
3. Prince of Wales’ Stakes : Lucien 1, Crowned
Head 2, Sum Punkins 3. Browley Handicap, about
U4 mile: Empress, 7.10,1; Carisslma, 7.0, 2; Maca-
roni, 7.12. 3. Eleven started; won by a length.
Flying Handicap: Raven, 8.10, 1; Unique, 6.7, 2;
Sir Robert, 7.12, 3. Won easily.
Second Day—Wednesday.
Members’Gift: Raven, 9.10,1; Thakambau.7.5,2;
Unique, 7.5, 3. Berrima Handicap, about 1% mile:
Express, 8.5,1; Mirabeau, 7.0, 2; Twelve Years, 8.4,
3. Six started; won by a head. Ladies’ Mile: Thak-
ambau, 7.0, 1. Farewell Handicap: Sloth, 7.6, 1;
Carisslma, 7.10, 8; Claudlne, 6.7, 3. Four started;
won cleverly.
QUEENSLAND TURF CLUB WEIGHTS.
Hurdles—Pastime, 12st. 61b.; Blazeaway, list.
121b.; Inglesides, list, 101b.; Whlteheat, list. 41b.;
Huntsman. 9st. 101b.; Brickie, 9st. 71b.; Smudge,
9st. 41b.
Flying Handicap.—Goldflnder, 9st. 51b.; Sati-
rist, 9st. 41b.: Moroney, 8st. 121b.: Hippy, 8st. 121b. ;
Inglesides, Set. 41b.; Gipsy King, 7st. 131b.; Pina-
fore, 7st. 121b.; Fairy Queen, 7st. 101b.: Fox, 7st.
71b.; Parelia, 7st. 41b.; Kittle Breeks, 7st.; Pilot,
Ost. 131b.; Sweetbread, 6st. 131b.; Adventure. 6st.
121b.; Brickie, 6et. 71b.
MORPETH RACES. —NOV. 9.
The following weights have been issued:—
Flying Handicap.—Maid of the Hills, 8st. 101b.:
Priscilla, 7st. 61b.; Mars, 6st. 131b.; Myra, 6st. 121b.;
Torpedo, 6st. 111b.; Imperial, 6st. Ulb.; Peter, 6st.;
Strencher, 6st.
Morpeth Club Handicap.—Maid of the Hills,
8st. 41b.; Priscilla, 7st. 31b.; Mars, 6st. 101b.; Myra,
6st. 91b.; Torpedo, 6st, 81b.; Imperial, 6st.
Ladies’ Bracelet.—Merton, 9st.; Antelope, 8st.;
Meteor, 7st.41b.; Juniper, 7st.
WEIGHTS FOR NARANDERA RACES.
Turf Club Handicap.—Coolabah, 8st. 101b.;
Terminus, 8st. 71b.; Omadhaun, 8st. 61b.; Tan-
taliser, 8st. 31b.; Nlghtlight, 8st. 21b.; Spaniard,
8st.; Hope, 7st. 131b.; Prudence, 7st. 111b.; Carls-
sima, 7st. 81b.; Mystery, 7st. 71b.: Hector, 7st. 41b.;
Blonde, 7st. 11b.; Darkey, 7st.; Trump Card, 6st.
121b.; Rake, 6st. 121b.; Unchecked, 6st. 101b.;
Victor, 6st. 101b.; Omega, 6st.; Assyrian King, 6st.
Town Plate.—Coolabah, 9st.; Terminus, 8st.
111b.; Omadhaun. 8st. 101b.; Tantaliser, 8st. 71b.;
NIghtllght, 8st. 61b.; Spaniard, 8st. 41b.: Hope,
8st. 31b.; Prudence, 8st. Ub.: Carissima, Tst. 12lb.;
Mystery, 7st. Ulb.; Hector, 7st. 81b.; Blonde, 7st.
51b.; Lucifer, 7st. 6lb.; Pheum, 7st. 41b.: Rake, 7st.
21b.; Unchecked, 7st.; Uncle Ned, 7st.; Victor,
7st.; Omega, 6st. 41b.; Assyrian King, 6st. 41b.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Electioneering has assumed a rather novel
phase in the Par North. At the Port Douglas
annual races, two handicaps were run, termed the
“ Ministerial Candidates’ ” and “ Opposition Candi-
dates’ ” respectively.
An English paper states that Home cricket
presented so many noticeable features last season,
that the absence of Australian visitors was hardly
remarked. This ought to bring the Australians’
price down considerably.
P. Davin, a well-known Irish leaper, has
put to his credit the best recorded long jump, via.,
23 teet 2 inches. Davin won the championship for
1882 with 22 feet ll inches, a feat that was still
behind his countryman’s (Lane) 23 feet IHs inch.
The race meeting of the N.S.W. Cyclists’
Union has been fixed for December 1st, on the
new cinder track, at the Agricultural Society’s
Grounds. The Sydney Bicycle Club has decided
not to support the meeting on the grounds that
the wheel is out of season.
The Sydney Bicycle Club delegates to the
N.S.W. Cyelists’ Union recently Invited the Union
President to explain little differences which arose
over the One Mile Amateur Championship, but the
majority of the 8.B.C. members would not give
him a hearing at any price, in consequence of
which the captain and two prominent members
resigned in disgust.
In speaking of Bendigo, the horse who
afterwards won the Cambridgeshire, London
Bell’s Life said: “The Irish crack, Bendigo,
under the charge of J. French, is doing good
strong work. This horse has a great many
admirers, but I fancy he has too much knee action
to be a good animal. I have also seen him pull up
lame when the gallop has been severe.” Bendigo
is an Irish Invincible.
We learn that they are having “ladies’
walking tournaments” in Moscow. We give this
item for the information of Miss Blank (now of
the Salvation Army), whose “chaste and appro-
Sriate attire,” when walking at the “ Hippodrome
ere, so cheerfully exercised us. We dare say
there are lots of people who would pay Miss B. s
fare to Moscow. We would ourselves, if she
could be got to sleigh it, and we knew exactly
when it was the wolf-season.
Georg© Fordham, the English jockey, has
won something like 3000 races since he rode his first
race as a thirteen-year-old, some thirty years ago.
After making a considerable amount of money by
a string of almost unbroken successes, he quitted
the turf and retired into private life. But the ex-
jockey’s pecuniary affairs did not continue to
prosper, and, after losing a small fortune by a
Series of disastrous speculations of one sort and
another, the popular rider returned to his old
love, the saddle, and has since stuck to it with all
bis first success.
During the past English yachting season,
the Samoena took 19 prizes, comprising 16 firsts and
four seconds, the money value being £1326. This
con pares favourably with her score last season of
10 firsts and one second—total value, £635—but
does not reach her total of the 1881 season. It is
expected that the Marjorie, cutter, will rank
secon d to the Samoena in regard to value; but, in
point of number, the May, which did not fit out at
all in 1882, is at the top of the list, her score having
21 pities gained in 32 starts, comprising 16 firsts,
tour teconds, and one third, her total winnings
amounting to about £700.
Ossitn’s time for the St. Deger, though it
Is three seconds slower than that of Dutch Oven,
who proved successful last year, Is the fastest
since 187V, a b when Iroquois was successful in 1881
IttoQk hi m 3min. 20 8-5sec. to traverse th e distance.
In ISBoi when Robert the Devil Ron, the fhn® was
8mln. 32sep.; In 1879, Rayon D’Or’s year, 3mln.
jin 1878, Jannette’s, 3min. 20Jfcec.: and in
m77, Silvio being successful, 3mln. 27see. Highland
Chief broke down just when he appeared to have
his race won. Webb had to ease him, and he only
finished a bad third to Ossian and Chlslehurst.
When he got into the stable yard he could scarcely
hobble about. The value of the stakes was £4,725.
Englishmen may know little of Australian
geography, but they appear to know everything of
Australian racing. The sporting editor of a home
paper writes:—“The Australians have Invented a
new sporting sensation, namely, races tor lady
riders. The fair and sometimes lovely jockeys use
a side-saddle still, but it is thought that when the
novelty becomes there roughly accepted, they will
be Archer in true fashion. The first event took
place at Victoria, and the chief prize was a bracelet
of the value of £250.” The race referred to was
The Ladles' Bracelet,” and the astute editor con-
eluded that the “ jocks ” were ladies on side-
saddles I
In N.Z., Edwards took his defeat by Scott
very badly. In the first match, it is stated, he
struck a by-stander over the face with a wet hand-
kerchlef, without provocation; and, towards the
end of the second, a fourteen-year-old said to him,
He s beaten you,” upon hearing w ioh Edwards
struck the youngster with his fist, cutting the
lad's cheek and closing his eye. The crowd hooted
him for several rounds. Should Edwards pay his
projected visit to America, we are under the Im-
pression it will be hardly safe for him to show any
of these little tantrums in the land of popguns
and cocktails.
A. Bannerman has been appointed one of
the triumvirate to choose the N.S.W. representa-
tive eleven in the f orthoeming Intercolonial cricket
match. We have every confidence in the “ little
stonewaller ” as an expounder of the game, but
the Association are evidently trying to coax him
out of his depth. Professional cricketers are not,
as a rule, chosen for such positions, except in
these parts. Apropos, much surprise is expressed
by those “who ought to know, you know.” that
D. Ogilvy did not “ catch the eye ” of the selection
committee for Intercolonial practice. Now that
the colony is so hard-up for bowlers, such a con-
sistent performer should be allowed a chance of
proving his worth.
Mr. W. G. George, the English ex-oham-
pion amateur, has recovered his old form. His
defeat In all the recent championship events by
Snook was entirely owing to his temporary want
of form, and the ease with which he disposed of
Snook In a 1500 yards’ race, some days afterwards,
shows that he is still the better man of the two. A
series of three matches has now been arranged
between these two cracks, over distances between
one, two, and three miles, and It Is thought that
George will amply revenge his championship de-
featsIn each of the three. The English record for
the mile Is that done by George in 1883— namely,
4 min. 19 3-5 sec. But, at the recent Championship
Sports, George was beaten by Snook, who won as
he liked in 4 min. 25 2-5 sec.
The substitution of the knocking-out sys-
tem of pugilism shows that brains are really
making headway in this world, although the col-
lege-professor is not coming in for any percentage
of the receipts. The “ knock-out ” is an absolute
triumph of brains, for it calls for but little prepa-
ratory training, and can be carried on in the midst
of a community, and at judicious interv als. There
is more brain displayed in connection with these
affairs than they dream of who affect to believe
that the salaries of statesmen, lawyers, and others
who exist altogether by their mental gifts, are
made to appear insignificant when contrasted with
the sums realised by Sullivan as victor in the re-
cent fight, and by Slade, even though slayed.
A Melbourne paper, in gushing over the
Victorian Derby, Informs us that “ the result is
anxiously expected in the four quarters of the
globe,” that ‘ r Benjamin Disraeli happily styled It
the Blue Klband of the Turf." and that “the
• Derby dog’ is certain to make his annual appear-
ance.” Now, wo are quite prepared to admit that
the result of the Victorian Derby is anxiously—
most anxiously—expected in Africa, and that the
“Derby dog” first drew breath beneath a southern
sun ; but we certainly were under the impression
that the term “ blue riband of the turf” was first
applied to a small race run at Epsom, in England,
and, furthermore that Lord George Bentinck
originated it.
The most interesting betting transaction
we ever heard of is the following “ At the races
the following remarkable incident occurred,
although very few people noticed it: Two cab
horses were standing facing each other. One of
them had a wisp of nay in his mouth, which tne
owner had just given it. To the surprise of every
body the horse made no attempt to eat the hay,
but seemed entirely absorbed in watching a race
Just then in progress. When the race was finished,
and the numbers were up, the noble animal sighed
deeply, shrugged his shoulders, and, with a cour-
teous wink at the other horse, placed the hay
upon the ground. Ti.en the other horse smoled a
smile like a young aligator, and began eating the
hay. The second horse had won the bet 1” It is
scarcely necessary to say that the race-meeting in
question was held in the United States.
The following police notice has been issued
In England with regard to bicycle and tricycle
racing :—“ Persons using bicycles, including tri-
cyles, are hereby cautioned that such vehicles are
carriages within the meaning of the Highway and
Metropolitan Police Acts. Furious driving (‘ Tay-
lor v. Goodwin ’ decided by the Judges, March 25,
1879): The Metropolitan Police Acts Impose a
penalty on any person who shall ride or drive
furiously, or so as to endanger the life or limb of
any person, or to the common danger of the pas-
sengers in any thoroughfare. The police are
directed to ascertain the names and addresses of
persons about to take part in any bicycle or tri-
cycle race within the metropolitan police district,
and to proceed against, and, if necessary, to take
into custody, any person violating the above law.
The provisions of the law as to obstructions are
independent of the above.”
Thus a writer in Society (London):—“ A
correspondence in the Field Apropos of the yacht-
ing season reveals the fact that yachtsmen visitors
to our shores are not Invariably treated with all
the consideration they deserve. Not long since
Mr. J. H. Want, an eminent Australian and com-
modore of the Prince Alfred Yacht Club, Sydney,
came to England with the object of purchasing a
fast boat to take to the colonies. In order to get
a good idea of our yachting by visiting our
various regattas, he advisedly hired a boat—the old
Terpsichore—which he entered for the several
‘cruisers’ matches. Although from her com-
parative obscurity the old boat was not con-
sidered a formidable adversary, she was—mainly
by good handling—fortunate enough to land
the first prize in each of these matches
except one, in which she took third place.
Some of the owners of the more pretentious craft
raised an objection on the ground that the Terp-
sichore was a hired boat. The Field correspon-
dent, in his account of the Torbay Regatta, after
the admittedly well-contested race in which the
Terpsichore gained first prize, could not complain
beyond dwelling upon this same theme, while the
owner of one of the defeated boats insisted upon
the Terpischore being re-measured. It transpired,
however, that the Terpsichore was about three
tons under her stated measurement. Although
our Colonial visitor has now the undisturbed right
to the possession of his laurels, he cannot but
retain a rather unpleasant recollection of the cir-
cumstances under which they were obtained.”
Sensation follows sensation amongst the
American trotters, and the latest is the perform-
ance of Mr. William Rockefeller’s team, the grey
stallion Independence and the bay mare Cleora.
This pair had been in training at Charter Oak Park,
Hartford, Conn., for some time, and one day they
trotted a trial in 2.17%. Appreciating the value of
a technical record, Mr. Rockefeller made a small
wager with Mayor Bulkeley, of Hartford, that the
team could beat that figure, and the 25th August
was set for the trial. At 11 a.m., after a warming-
up heat, in 3.38)4, the cross-matched team came
down for the word. It was not a winning gait the
first half, the cool-headed driver preferring to
reserve his speed. When the timers noted 35)4 sec.
to the quarter, and 1.09)4 to the half, no person
thought that the best double-team record would
be superseded, but the second half mile told
another story. The third quarter of the distance
was trotted at a 2.16 gait, the three-quarter pole
being passed in 1.43)4, and the speed down the
home stretch was even greater, being accelerated
to a 2.12 clip. Nearing the wire the stallion kept
his traces taut, while the mare received a little
persuasion, but neither made a mistake, and as
they flew over the score, the watches of the timers
were stopped at the astonishing figure of 2.16)4,
beating by one second and a quarter the best
previous double-team record of Edward and Dick
Swiveller. They have not yet equalled the per-
formance of Maud 8. and Aldine, driven by Van-
derbiit himself, in 2.15)4, drawing 4111 b., but as
Vanderbilt’s trot is not looked upon as a record.
Independence and Cleora are now entitled to be
called the Champion Double- Team.
After Courtney’s defeat in the professional
scullers’ race at Watkins, N.Y., his representatives
published the following remarkable tale:—“ Court-
ney was assaulted last evening, and received quite
serious injuries about the head. He would allow
nothing said about it uutil after he had pulled the
trial heat in which he was entered to-day, for he
said the papers would at once jump on him and
declare he was always meeting with mishaps, and
wanted to avoid rowing. It seems, however, that
the attack was made under a misapprehension,
and was not intended for Courtney, but for an-
other man, who was supposed to have a large sum
of money about him, and whom it was intended
to rob. The facts, as near as can he ascertained,
seem to be that Courtney went down to his boat-
house quite late in the evening, accompanied by
Mr. John Cree and another gentleman, the latter
being well known to be possessed of ample means.
As they walked up the railroad track, they met a
gang of twenty men, and beard one of them ask if
the man with the round hat was Courtney, to
which another replied no, that the tall man was
the oarsman. On their return, the track was
apparently deserted. Courtney’s companions left
him for a few minutes, and he stood waiting
for them beside the track in the shadow of the
storehouse, where his boats were kept. Suddenly
he received a blow on the head, which felled him,
and his companions, returning, found him on his
knees in a dazed sort of state, unable for some time
to tell what had happened. He was taken to bis
sister’s house, where he has for some time been
sojourning, and medical advice was summoned.
The physician called gave it as his opinion that the
blow was struck with a sand bag. The bruise on
the right side of his head was painful, but the more
serious effect was a sharper pain at the base of the
brain, which prevented Courtney from getting
much sleep last night. To-day he went to Havana
to consult another doctor, and several have
examined his head, all advising a total suspension
of all work for at ;easta week. Itls supposed, and
Courtney thinks, that, as he stood in the shi dow,
he was mistaken by his assailant for his wealthy
companion, and that as he fell forward imo the
moonlight the error was discovered, and the sand-
bagger fled. This supposition is sustained by the
statement that the moneyed man was subsequently
attacked, and escaped only by pulling a revolver.
Courtney had a watch and over $400 in money
with him, but lost neither.” With regard to the
above, a facetious Yankee paper says:—” It is said
that some sport-loving gentlemen in New York
City have forwarded $502.68 to the police authori-
ties of Watkins, N.Y. The $500 is a reward tor the
capture, alive, of the felk) w who hit Courtney with
a sand-club, and the $B.68 is to be expended in
buying him a heavier club.” Pretty rough on
Courtney,
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Allen, A. Bannerman, C. Bannerman, J.
Cleeve, Elder, Garrett, A. Gregory, Hall, Hlddel-
ston, Jones, Lee, Massie, H. Moses, and Powell
have been picked to practice for the Intercolonial
cricket match James Wilson, of St. Albans’
fame, has lost his valuable mare, Mischief. She
died in foal-birth At Flemington, Chrysalis,
ridden by Kllduff, recently came to grief near the
spot where she killed poor M’Innts She failed
this time to kill Kilduff outright, but he was taken
to the hospital suffering from concussion of the
brain... The foot-race between young Grant, of
Buckley’s Crossing, and T. Hayes, of Bombala, for
£50 a side, has fallen through. Grant forfeited
£25. Hayes will probably be backed for £50 or £100
to run B. M’Ternan, of Micalago, 150 yards. ..
Druid trod upon a glass bottle, and cut his fetlock
so severely that it is doubtful if he will ever again
be fit for racing purposes.. Hawkesbury Grand
Handicap on 9th November, 150 yards, first prize
£30....Callaghan, the Maitland ped, was recently
matched, and has now been duly mated... Mr. T.
R. Smith, the member for the Nepean, recently
grassed all his birds, and won a Parramatta pigeon
match—Glebe R. C. annual regatta fixed for 8th
December. Programme : Maiden double sculls,
maiden fours in gigs, junior double sculls,
senior sculls, senior fours in outriggers
H. M. Woodhouse won the second competition for
the Victoria Cup, in connection with the Melbourne
Gun Club. He dropped 18 out of 20 birds At
Melbourne, the Press defeated the Parliament in
a cricket match. Scores 103 and 79 respectively....
At BothwelL Tasmania, Denmark won the Hunt
Club Cup, Hurdle Race, and Dennistoun Steeple-
chase in one day.... Messrs. Finlay’s stud, includ-
ing the stallions Wellington and King Cole, will be
disposed of by Messrs, rullle and Co., Melbourne,
in February next T. F. Walker, of the Bal-
main Mechanics’ Rowing Club, and a Krug
aspirant, one day last week tested the respective
strength of his outrigger and an iron buoy moored
off Cockatoo. After the collision, the buoy r ancy
of Mr. Walker’s spirits and outrigger were about
on a par The Cootamundra cricketers have
opened the season with a match—Old Players v.
Colts. So far, the game stands. Old ’uns 130, Colts
one wicket for 32..,. William Sinclair, connected
with the “Orient” sweep, was, on Friday last, at
Melbourne, charged with being the occupier of a
common gaming nouse. and fined £60, with £10 10s.
costs, or three months gaol. ..In the fifty miles
bicycle road race, from Kyneton to Melbourne, on
27th October, H. Stokes rode 50 miles in 3 hours
12 min
BOIARIO’S CUP CONSULTATION.
700,000 SHARES AT £1 EACH.—ALL PRIZES AND NO
Blanks.
First Horse .. £12,000,000
Second Horse 1,200,000
Third Horse 120,000
Divided amongst starters .. .. 12,000
Divided amongst non-starters .. 1,200
Address Loco, care of Bolarlo, Astrolabe Range,
New Guinea.
... The Victorian Crown Solicitor has declined to
file a criminal information against W. H. Williams,
who was committed for trial for an alleged crimi-
nal libel on the Evening Herald, in re the bogus
sweep troubles... At Perth (W.A.), in the rifle
match tor Major Hillman's Challenge Cup, Captain
Sholl won by 75 points; the distances were 200 and
300 yards, with 10 shots at each range tt.S.Y.C.
fixturesSecond-class race, prize £25; to be sailed
on Saturday, 19th January. Third-class race, prize
£20; to be sailed on Saturday, 2nd February.
Fourth-class race, two prizes of £15 each; first race
to be sailed on the 8th December, and second race
on the 9th February.
• • •
It is still rumoured in English cricketing
circles that Mr. A. G. Steel will sever his connec-
tion with Lancashire, and will play for Middlesex
next season. ..The now unusual spectacle of a
professional eight-oared race came off recently on.
the Thames, the contestants being selected from,
the watermen of Richmond and Lambeth respec-
tively. Richmond won from end to end The>
Duke of Hamilton won about £13,000 on the>
Leger; but several of his friends “stood” with
him, so that his net gains are reduced to £10,000.
The English bicyclists are getting ambi-
tious, and are now trying to run 21 miles within
the hour. So far, however, those who have at-
tempted the feat have conspicuously failed
In a match between the Shellleld Park and Mr.
Shlffner’s Eleven, Mr. C. A. Smith, the Cambridge
University bowler, who is known as “Round the
corner Smith” from his peculiar style of bowling,
took three wickets in three balls Some half-
dozen bicyclists were recently riding down a
London thoroughfare by the side of a van, when
the horse slipped on the asphalte, and in falling
caught his leg in the wheel of one of the bicycles,
throwing the rider heavily on to the pavement.
He was picked up unconscious, and bleeding from
the nose and mouth. The rider following fared
much worse, as being unable to stop his machine
he ran on to the prostrate animal, who in endea-
vouring to regain its fei t kicked him, breaking his
right thigh and arm before he could.be extricated..
Bubear, after defeating Largan, wanted to scull
either Boyd or Hawdon C. Keeble, the Englisn
long-distance walker, at latest was to attempt the
feats of walking 1000 miles in 500 hours, and 2000
miles in 1000 hours At the close of the English
cricketing season, the Hon. A. Lyttelton headed
the list of batsmen with an average of 69; Mr.
Ridley next with 45, Mr. C. T. Studd 41, Mr. Read
36, Mr. A. P. Lucas 33, Mr. W. G. Grace and Mr. I.
D. Walker 82 each, Mr. A. G. Steel and Lord Harris
30, and Mr. E. M. Grace 25. The highest score of
the season was Mr. Grant-Ashe’s, who made 182,
while Mr. Lyttelton made 181, Mr. C. T. Studd 175,
and Mr. W. G. Grace 112. In both batting and
bowling averages, the professionals are far below
the amateur players, 33 being the highest attained
by them in batting, and 23 in bowling.
CUP DAY.
IN THE GRAND STAND.


JjIURNITUR
SHOW ROOMS.
H
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
ALL FURNITURE, HATBTANDS,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suiTßsTin exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; 'well worthy of
Inspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, Ac.,
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
FURNITURE.-THE LARGEST STOCK IN
THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, O’Connell-street.
ARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms. Ac.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
IQHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.-The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, waahstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY,
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
HEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 20s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, fram 355; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from 10s 6d: Tables, from 7s 6d: Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 255; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
85s.
BRA DLBY
NBWTON,
and LAMB,
MYUNEY.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
O
UCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery. Plush, &0.,
g~iHIFFONNIBR WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
(rConnell-street. _______
Easy occasional chairs, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
T'k RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—
JU A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d. '
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAjSTD,
marble top, 80s the pair.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, complete, 40 Guineas.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, comprising 5-FKBT
EARLY ENGLISH SIDEBOARD, MAHOGANY
EXTENDING DINING TABLE, with patent
screw and two 1 aves ; LARGE PIER GLASS,
COU H, GENT.’S an > LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAIR .covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas. _
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 leet.
JARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Ormolu.
VERY ELEGANT items for Drawlng-iooa.
FRAMEWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS—A very exten-
sive ass rtiaent in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamm
Framework for dining-room furni-
ture, Handsome and Massive, In Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
D
B
BDSTE ADS, nickel-plated and black and brass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
B
BODING—AII descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell-street.
W
ABHSTANDB, with marble, 35s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
ARDEN SEATSi 20sj Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
ENT WOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment; best make, low est prices.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, Iron Safes (all sizes)
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-Btreet.
"CE CHESTS, all sizes, very superior make. Ex-
- amine before purchasing. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
COMMODE CHAIRS BIDETS with pan:
SHAVING STANDS. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
APANESB BLINDS, for Verandahs, 8 x 8,11 s;
0 x 8,135; 10 x 8,145. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB.
STEIN WAY NEW YORK PIANOS, the FINEST
in the world. A SHIPMENT just landed.
riPP’S CELEBRATED PIANOS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB
have received
another LARGE SHIPMENT
R, LIPP and SONS’ celebrated PIANOFORTES
direct from the Makers, comprising TALL
GRANDS, LITTLE UPRIGHT GRANDS, SA-
LOON GRANDS, VERY HANDSOME and of the
HIGHEST CLASS FINISH,
in
WALNUT and BLACK GOLD.
WE HAVE NOW THE LARGEST STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA OF ,
LIPP’S PIANOS
TO SELECT FROM.
WE INVITE INSPECTION. , m
FOR PRIVATE SALE AT EXTREMELY LOW
PRICES.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Pianoforte Importers,
O’Connell and Spring street*.
SOCIAL
By private invitation some 5400 ladies and ,
gentlemen assembled in the Masonic Hall on ,
Thursday evening, ta see an exhibition of dancing ,
given by the pupils of Mrs. F. Warskitt. The \
platform was occupied by nearly 100 pupils, mostly ,
pretty children not yet in their teens. They wore
“party dresses,” chiefly white, with a flash of ]
colour here and there, and keenly enjoyed what ,
they considered a good time. We know many ;
persons object to dancing entirely. But their (
experience generally has not been an extended
one. Like tne good Dean’s knowledge of the Joys i
of harbour picnics, It comes chiefly from what ,
someone heard somebody say to somebody else. ,
Now, there are more objects in dancing than plea- (
sure. It is no more a pleasure to some than learn- (
ing to spell, or doing flve-flnger exercises; but, ,
now-a-days, it is education. Again, to teach danc- i
lag to children, if well done, is to develop a grace of j
manner and mien that will never leave them. And,
to many, the calisthenlc training of the dance
room means health, too. Wo saw, somewhere, ,
“thirty reasons against dancing.” It would be
easy to give thirty reasons for it. But that
wouldn’t settle the matter. We simply say here i
that numbers of the pupils who danced on Thurs-
day night were learning and practising the art for
specific reasons, and by doctors’ advice. And as
every branch was exhibited, from the common
ball-room quadrilles to the intricacies of stepping,
posing, and the beautiful Spanish dancing with
castanet accompaniment, every opportunity was
given to judge what dancing is—when done on a
system, and not in a romp. Qu drilles, lancers,
and cotillons were of course done by all. Twenty
couples showed the military waltz. This differs
from the gilding waltz now so popular, wherein
the flat of the foot, and even the heel, is much
used. The military is more regular in the circling
movement, covers less ground, and its distinctive
feature is a pause on the point of the toe. None of
the waltzers reversed. This usage of reversing is,
and has been for years, a very disputed question.
We can’t pretend to trace its origin, for history
would repeat itself In this as in other things, and
no doubt when Miriam skipped about on the edge
of the lied Sea, she gave, if the truth were known,
a twirl or two the “ wrong way ”; but it’s pretty
safe to say the present style first came to notice in
Sydney when the Galatea came. Some will recol-
lect that Lord Charles Beresford—since famous in
other ways—was a great reverser ; his worst
trouble then being to get partners to do it. t
any rate, Mrs. Warskitt often waltzed with
“ lighting Charlie,” and some time afterwards the
Style began 10 gradually spread here, slowly at
first. It got to bo a great favourite with good
dancers, and a perfect bugbear to bad ones, who
have always unsparingly decried it. Now, how-
ever, Mrs. Warskitt is satisfied the reverse is being
dropped, and she follows the fashion. Highland
stepping, by over a score of little girls, followed
the military, and then a curious pirformance was
given by two of the veriest mites. Miss Lizzie
English, turned 4 years old, executed a Highland
reel, without a slip, and smiling delightedly at her
own efforts; and Miss Lena Beattie toddled round
in an accurate waltz, backward, forward, and re-
verse, and she is Next, there was a clever
hornpipe by Masters Frank Newton and Stanley
Stubbs, with small lady partners, each step done
by both feet. A mazurka followed, where the
partners merely held hands, turning under their
own arms. Then came a treat: the skipping dance
by Misses Lucy Bowman, Cissy Cleary, and Maggie
Cavanough. The skipping-ropes started with the
music, at a slow easy whirl, and, though the girls
changed from one step to another without a break,
there was never a foot misplaced, and no deviation
In the steady whirr of the ropes “ keeping time,
time, time, in a sort of runic rhyme” to the
small white feet. Two little girls then did an Irish
Jig with the skipping-ropes going. Five sets went
through the polos, a lively square dance of live
figures, first Introduced in Sydney a few years
ago. Then came the treat of the night: sixteen
little girls all about a size, and all in white,
with their shoes off, stood in a line. With one
foot planted in fron , slowly their arms went up as
they all bent back till the castanets clicked behind
their heads. Then forward and sideways, every
little figure moving in unison and grace, as If cast
In the same mould; then, to a slow waltz tune, the
feet Joined in, the whole line swaying together in a
perfect balance, and the castanets circling above
the head Once all the sixteen crossed hands, in
“ auld lang syne ” style, and the next moment half
were floating dreamily around, light as wind-blown
feathers over the floor, while the rest stood motion-
less, poised in some pretty attitude, with all the
grace of little Grecian statues. Through the even-
ing Mrs. Warskitt played the piano, leaving the
pupils to do each dance without the least help;
and during two hours there was not one mistake
made. All were good, but the dancing of Miss
L Bowman and Miss Grade Dc Lissa seemed he
acme of childish elegance. Among the pupils were
some from Manly, Kandwick, North Shore, the
city, &c. From Darlinghurst came the dark-eyed
little daughter of the most emphatic M.P.; from
up the line, a clergyman’s little girl; several were
doctors’ daughters-one, in white and cardinal,
very graceful; and there was the son, too, of a
dancing Judge. When the younger ones had
finished, the visitors danced till midnight, and
refreshments were diffused.
• • •
At St. Paul’s Church, Burwood, Mr. C. F.
Lindeman, of this city, became joined unto Miss
Florence Edith Chapman, daughter of the late
llev. Robert Chapman, of West Maitland, the
Rev S. Slmm, from Newcastle, officiating. The
chancel of the church was nicely decorated, arch
of roses and white flowers with lilies on top, and
the choir stalls were hung with garlands, large
vases of flowers being set on the communion
fable. The bride’s dress was white satin with lace
flowers ; and the chief bridesmaid, her sister, wore
blue nun's veiling and satin. Two other attend-
ant seraphs looked charming in maize and cardinal
costumes, wreaths to match. Organ pealed out
us the happy pair left, and their honeymoon com-
prises Moss Vale and Melbourne.
• • •
Archibald Forbes has been writing about
social matters in America. He has found that
chaperouago is almost unknown there; and yet,
despite this appalling fact, his respect for the
manners and virtue of American women is not
impaired. While, with all that heavy ostensible
demureness so characteristic of English manners,
English girls are restricted in their behaviour by a
thousand petty rules, the breakage of any one of
which is a serious crime in the eyes of society,
o uite a different system obtains in “ the land of
tne free.” While the British unmarried girl in
s >clety lives under a system of ohaperonage which
at every turn of daily life says, plainly as whisper
in the ear, “ you can’t be trusted unless you’re
watched,” America has dared to emancipate her-
self from the bondage of this conventionalism.
Americans insist that a young woman, Instead
of being an object combining almost incredible
helplessness with quite impossible innocence, is
really a sensible and responsible being, who can
be trusted to walk alone without falling at every
step and Is all the better for doing so. America
savs’ to its young woman, very early in life :
“ Seems to me the conservation of your own
honour is a matter that affects you more than any-
body else ; so I propose to vest in yourself the
guardianship of it. Be accustomed to rely on
vourself. Don’t fret the sunny hours of your
vouth by suspecting a snake in every tuft of grass.
Remember, within limits, the motto honi soil.
Walk straight, and keep your head cool." Gene-
ration after generation ©f young women have
been raised in America under this social creed,
and having carefully studied it, and its results,
Forbes— regardless of the frowns of incensed ana
insensate old chaperones—says : “I venture to
aver that It answers, and am content to appeal to
anyone who has had the good fortune to enjoy
social familiarity with American ladies.” A train-
ing such as this gives the American girl an utter
absence of self-consciousness, a frankness and
natural bonhomie that constitute one of her great-
est charms. She flirts a bit; indeed, is an adept at
it—but the young man who presumes thereon tinde
himself wofully mistaken, lu spite of all the
apparent freedom, her flirtation is all “ from the
teeth outward; ” and he is not likely to get one
whit nearer to doubtful intimacy with the dashing
American girl than ho would with the bread-and-
butter miss who is injudiciously tethered by her
mama’s apron-string. Enjoying a latitude at which
the English girl, fed on conventionality till it has
got into her marrow, would thrill and shudder,
the American, if her “folks” are wealthy, has her
own parlour, and in it receives the visits of her pri-
vate friends, who may never have seen the rest of
her family, and are never expected to unless they
choose. If she has no parlour of her own, it is a
recognised thing with the rest of the family to
arrange by mutual accommodation for the pri-
vate visits of their respective friends, undis-
turbed by others. A girl can travel from one side
of America to the other alone, without a thought
of violated etiquette : she can walk out with a
gentleman who need not be a sweetheart; she can
go to the theatre with him or by herself ; she
can do a great many other things involving a
similar amount of personal liberty ; and, if she is
not foolish, will keep her reputation untarnished.
All this may seem strange ; yet not more so than
it is to the American girl, when she leaves her
own country, to see every well-intentioned and
respectable woman—especially if she be good-
looking—surrounded by a perfect network of
society watchers, all taking on themselves the
responsibility of her reputation—wnich is her
business ; scrutinizing her conduct—which is not
theirs ; and all suspicious of the evil which exists
more in their own minds than anywhere else. The
American plan seems more chivalrous than the
system which implies that a grown woman cannot
be trusted, and invests her every movement with
suspicion. Forbes said it startled him at first, but
one gets used to things, and records his conviction
that the evil coming out of such liberty is
singularly small. There are lapses occasionally,
but they can be boldly compared with those that
occur under the conventional system of “ sedulous
si epherding.” There are as few girls in America
as in anv other country who set their pretty
wicked faces in the direction they should not go.
• • •
On 31st ultimo., an amateur dramatic per-
formance of unusual merit was given in the Gym-
nasium, in aid of the “ Young Australian Club,”
Ultimo. The piece was Max Adeler’s comedy, “ Her
Second Husband,” and the style of its production
was very different from that of general amateur
efforts. Notone hitch occurred throughout: the
four ladies and gentlemen who took part knew
every line they had to speak, and they did not mar
the Queen’s English. Scenery was specially pre-
mred, and the smoothness and finish of the acting
jetokened the painstaking rehearsals that must
have been held. If any could be singled out,
perhaps the characters of Jack Despard and Louisa
Tottle gained the most spontaneous applause, but
bouquets were not sparingly thrown by the audi-
ence, which was a fashionable one. Mr. G. H. Reid
was present, also the Rev. A. B. Camm, who is one of
the prime organisers of the Young Australian Club,
the objects of which we alluded to last week,
♦ • *
Mr. Layman Martin Harrison (of the firm
of Harrison, Jones, and Devlin) having decided to
“calm his wild tumultuous soul with pure
domestic bliss,” attended at St. Paul’s, Burwood,
last Thursday, for the purpose. The church was
crammed with Interested friends, and the rustle of
rich silks and satins was heard from almost every
pew, for the wedding was a very fashionable one.
and the ladies of the district felt how important
It was that another of their fair sisters had pro-
gressed safely on in the Journey of (life to the fair
haven of Husband’s Land. Miss Amy Olive
Tucker, daughter of Mr. J. C. Tucker, of Bick-
leigh, Redmyre, was the bride, looking very hand-
some In a rich ivory satin and broche, with a veil
reaching to her feet, and she was given away by
her father. Four bridesmaids were in pale blue
nun’s veiling, with white hats and cream feathers,
and three little girls were gylphlike in blue dresses,
prettily made. Among the guests were a married
sister of the bride, in a fine dark brown satin ; a
young lady extremely pretty in navy blue satin ;
and a magnificent costume of brown satin, trimmed
with deep lace and bands of fawn-coloured satin,
compelled admiration of one of the handsomest
figures in the church. Beautiful costumes were
so general that it would be hard to pick them out,
but the display was unusually good. The service
was performed by the Rev. George King, and Mr.
Younger and Mr. Moffatt, the organist, both
played on the organ. Afterwards, the bridal party
returned to Redmyre, and the honeymoon com-
menced at picturesque Katoomba.
* * *
Large throng in Pitt-street Church on the
31st ult., to see a fine young couple launched on
the high Waters of matrimony. The Rev. George
Campbell performed the ceremony of uniting Mr.
John Inglls, eldest son of Mr. William Inglis, of
Annesley, Leichhardt, to Miss Australia, youngest
daughter of Mr. George Renwick, J P. of Redfern.
The bride’s toilet was a fine white brochd and
satin, brochd jacket with shoulder knot, long satin
train trimmed with lace, veil, blossoms and wreath;
and the young ladies who assisted at the launch
were nine—three wearing pink brochd and satin
with cream lace, shoulder knots; three white satin
and cashmere, cardinal knots; and three little girls
in pink cashmere and satin, pink gloves and hose.
All dresses were short, and worn with caps and
bows to match, and each lady carried a basket of
flowers, with ribbon streamers to match dress.
Among the guests were the bride’s mother in black
satin, cream silk fichu and bonnet; the bride-
groom’s mother in fawn silk, with pink bonnet; Dr.
A. Renwick, with Mrs. Renwick in fawn silk and
cream bonuet; the Mayor and Mayoress, Mr. John
Sutherland, M.P., Dr. George Renwick and his
wife, who wore a red plaid silk, with cream lace
trimming: Mrs. William Renwick in a pretty brown
satin and lace, under a neat pink bonnet; Mr. and
Mrs. S. Poolman, the latter in a beautiful violet
velvet and satin, cream bonnet, fruit and feathers.
Mrs. John Harris wore heliotrope brocade and
honiton lace, and Mrs. Shadier, jun., also helio-
trope, partly covered with cream india muslin and
laoe. Mrs. Christie wearing prune satin, Mrs. J.
Williamson in a handsome pink brocade, and Mrs.
Campbell, were also present. A steel-coloured silk
was admirable, and a black brochd and cashmere
the same. The organ was played, and breakfast
laid at Argyle Termce, Redfern, where toasts were
given. Mr. and Mrs Inglls left to spend their
honeymoon in Melbourne.
• • •
Newtown revived the Spelling Bee last
week, and got a big hall full of local residents.
Mr. S. Bent, the Public School teacher, gave out
the words, and the five prizes, worth about £B,
were won by G. J. Shaw, Arthur Fry, Miss Mearos.
J. G. Hay, and R. Bedford. There was the usual
argumentative man there, of course, who, when-
ever he got a bad word, commenced, “Well, that
word’s spelled two ways,” and, by the time he got
through a long and fearfully exhausting explana-
tion, they forgot the point, and he escaped. There
was the bold schoolboy who lifted up his voice
like he was leading the choir, and the meek young
girls with no voice at all. One very mature lady,
invited to spell “acreage,” at once attacked ii
“ achorige,” but this patent way of building the
word was not regarded as satisfactory, and she
stepped down. Next thing was when a small boj
made two attempts, upon which an excited maider
frisked up to the table with “ pleasir, that boy, ’«
i was prompted,” and the small boy had to be
examined on the spot, having been first cautlonec
’ as to where he’d go if he told a lie. Soon after
she got a word. She was a pretty girl, certainlj
. the best on the platform, but she couldn’t cope
■ with that horrid word any more than a mud tur
i tie, and she had to go. “ Cachinnation ” doubiec
, up a boy, and “osculatory” staggered one, bu
, he caught the eye of a girl in the fron
1 seat, and then remembered ail about it. “ Abys
• mal” was fatal, and “ hierarchy” caused trouble a
i usual. Then “arboreal” cleared off the argumen
' tative man, who of course wanted to explain tha
■ he knew all about it, and the last lady was at faul
• for spelling “acknowledgment” as the prayer
1 book does. Hard lines 1 n Meridionally” was no
■ so bad as it sounded; “allegement” was safel;
; cleared, but “ apoplexious” choked the last strug
i gliug competitor. (The word is only to be foum
i m the last edition of the Imperial.) Three alder
men, alive to the requirements of the borough,
then gave half a sov. each for a second bee, when
the mature lady again stepped dauntlessly forward,
and let off her orthographical enthusiasm on
“ panegyric,” which she thought was baby’s food,
but after four attempts, as she got worse every
time, they had to clear her off again. A popular
man, W. M'Nally, got the prize. The bee was
well got up by the Are brigade, who propose to
have another—a geographical or grammar bee,
probably.
♦ * *
Marriages go on day by day, and even the
grandest and costliest are seldom more than a
three days’ talk to those who see them; though
the interest lasts just a little longer, perhaps, with
those who make them. But it is seldom a mar-
riage brings such a rush of recollections, to us, at
any rate, as a quiet little ceremony at St.
Leonard’s on Thursday last. Its Interest was not
in its wealth, its ostentation, or its crowd; but the
bride bore a name that earned honour in this
country—she was the daughter of one who was,
perhaps, the greatest of Australian journalists.
With pungent wit, keenest thought, and facile
pen, William Wilkes could write “ with the fervour
of soul, or the light touch of art;” and moving
enthusiasm with his passionate flow, he, in the
heyday of his life, had no compeer on the press.
None more able to make unworthy men writhe
under biting sarcasm; and he wrote on corruption
in high places in such a way that there are men
still living who “would rather not talk about it.”
First on the Brisbane Courier, and then on the
Sydney Empire, the pen of Wilkes did yeoman
service for honest right; and, for her father’s sake,
most heartily we wish the bride all happiness in
life. Miss Mary Christine Wilkes, looking bright
and pretty in her dress of cream moire and cream
lace, with wreath and veil, was married at St.
Thomas’ Church, to Mr. Richard C. Hunter, of
Bathurst. Her brother-in-law, Mr. J. 0. Fussell,
gave her away, and her sisters helped to seal the
compact. Mrs. J. C. Fussell wore a nice dress of
pale blue nun’s veiling trimmed with cream lace,
cream bonnet and blue gloves. Miss K. Wilkes
(youngest sister) and Miss Aitken wore cream cash-
mere dresses, cream gloves, and flowers in their
hair. Miss Nettie Fussell, a three-year-old fairy
(niece of the bride), was in pure white India
muslin and white lace, pink gloves and hose; and
Mrs. Wilkes looked happy in a dress of prune satin,
cream bonnet and gloves.
• ♦ •
Last Friday saw the first ball of the Glebe
Buffaloes (Nil Desperandum Lodge, No. 3), in the
local Town Hall; and the principles of the Order,
as regards geniality and good fellowship, were
fully carried out. The talented Somers handled
the piano, and Callaghan catered a first-rate supper.
The card-room atmosphere was opaque with the
smoke industriously blown by those who preferred
a quiet hand at euchre to the fascination of tripping
toes, and the toilets and small-talk of the ball-room.
There was a moderate attendance, and plenty of
room for a good free swing; and there w re two
or three fair creatures in blue who knew Just how
to do it, too. And a little rose-pinker was not
“left” much by anyone eith r. Half the frocks
were blue; two alike came from Strawberry Hills
and (Hebe Point Road; and another, with pink
roses, was worn by a clever maiden from Arundel
Terrace, whose sparkling countenance seemed to
indicate a constant struggle between demureness
and mischief. An all-white, with forget-me-nots,
was from Glebe; and an indigo satin and white
lace adorned the quite blonde daughter of a
high Buffalo official. One daughter of the
grand treasurer was vivacious in blue satin and
cashmere, and another wore the prettiest dress,
cream satin dotted with clumps of green leaves
and scarlet peas. A blue decked with silver
naturally circulated well, as silver always does, and
a cardinal and gold was of course rather rich. From
Pitt-street was a smiling little brunette, in blue
and flowers; and a young lady in black top and
light blue skirt was a good dancer. Other blues
were confusingly numerous and nice. At mid-
night, Mr. Priestly, D.G. Primo of the Buffaloes in
the colony, making a good impromptu speech,
presented a jewel to the late sitting Primo of the
Nil Desperandum Lodge, Mr. J. G. M Donald,
because he sat so well. And that officer, supported
, by the G.T., Mr. Schroeder, replied. It was after
three when the ball broke up, and the ladies
appreciated the style of festis ity better than if it
, had been a dinner, as first thought of.
• * *
1 The Hon. George Coppin’s eldest daughter,
Miss Blanche, was married at Richmond (Vic.) last
‘ month, to Mr. G. R. Ashton, artist, and brother of
the well-known Mr. J. R. Ashton of the Austra
lAsian Skbtcher. The wedding was very quiet
, and private, and the bride, In a walking costume of
peacock green, was aocompained by the rest of
1 the family to church. The ceremony was at 6 p.m.,
* and the wedding tea, or whatever it was, was done
: and the guests dispersed before nine.
t • * *
Last week, at Wagga, Miss Kate Emily
I Pownall, the daughter of Archdeacon Ppwnall was
1 married in St. John’s Church, to Mr, Alfred
; Tugwell, manager of theA.J.S. Bank, Murrum-
i hurrah. Crowds thronged the church, and testified
i to the popularity of the venerable Archdeacon and
i his daughter. Honeymoon via Albury to Mel-
-3 bourne. » * •
j Mr. Alfred Read’s annual ball took place
in Newtown Municipal Hall on Monday. Nice
* nierht, irood music, decorations, teetotal supper-
c table, and Mr. Bead did all he could to make things
' pleasant. Dancing at nine, Mr. C. B° ots . Mayoi
i of Newton, taking head of the room with Mis.
! Read. It is fair to say that the singular success
0 which crowned the efforts of the Mayor in his
® attack on the quadrille was largely owing to the
® guiding influence of his amiable partner. Several
] bold soldiers distinguished themselves by the fear-
j loss way they entered into engagements; and one
, very juvenile warrior, who had brought a High-
land lassie into the field, looked fiercely at any
1 strangers whoso gaze rested on his sprightly little
: partner. He danced the whole twenty-one dances
1 with her, and employed the intervals plying her
with ginger-beer loi ber marks ot affection. A
* shadowy youth, who chose to regard himself as
4 Robinson Crusoe, came in white sheepskin body
; and skirt.and presented the somewhat curious ap-
„ pearance of a lady surprised in semi-toilet. The
I sheep’s skin made him very hot; but we don t
r think any other skin would have suited him so
well. A pink cashmere costume was pretty, but
Mrs. Seymour s crushed strawberry ottoman
* broche, lightly draped with white lace and tulle,
was even more so. Little MLs Can oil was Erin,
>• and a pretty picture of the country where the
P grass grows green. A young married lady ro ? a
*• Cleveland-streot, in cream lace, waltzed euchant-
- 5! inglv, and a blonde in pink top and blapk velvet was
- also noted. Mrs. Boots wore black satin and moire,
I I Miss Alice a pretty blue broche sateen, Miss Emma
T pink draped with sky-blu guaze. A lady ot con-
-4 siderable scope of person was in handsome blue
l ~ satin; a Newtown married lady in rich ruby velvet
e and pink broche, and a clever speller all m damtj
e white. Two tall sisters in cream and lots of flowers
B were ornaments to the ball-room. But it sel-
dom human nature is seen m such interesting
" phase as was exhibited by one rather blue pair of
6 beintrs. The youth had evidently taken a pre-
e emotive right in his selection, and no trespassers
y were allowed. Every time the music rose, this
, n inseparable couple were found dancing immedi-
e ately adjoining one another, borne might find a
'? want of variety in such constant companionship,
d but they did not; and when the music stopped,
r» they retired to a box, and sat in calm and silent
contemplation. They must have been filled with
,e unutterable love, for they never spoke. Alto-
r: aether, the ball was capital; and a busful of
ld visitors were trotted back to Sydney as daylight
It dawned. #
is A return ball on a good scale waa giver
i- at the Great Wentworth Hotel, Homebush, to Mr
it and Mrs. Sturt last week, and the splendid ballroom
it was filled with a large and gaily dressed assemblage
r- Skipper’s band played, and Compagnoni catered
Dt At supper, several toasts were given, including
ly that of Mr. and Mrs. Sturt, and Mr. H. M. Dennes
?- the hon. sec., had everything in good order.
Social continued on next page.


SEARL & SONS,
NURSERYMEN, SEEDSMEN, BOUQUBTISTS,
And Artistic Floral Dinner-table Decorators,
3 and 5 GEORGE-BTRBBT MARKETS, SYDNEY;
Also,
BLAIR ATHOL NURSERY, PETERSHAM.
ISP 1- Pelargoniums now in full bloom. Inspection
invited.
FURNITURE POLISH.
THE VICTORIA
is the only
RELIABLE PREPARATION in the MARKET
TRY IT!
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
IBBS, BRIGHT & CO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO., LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
Principal Agencies •
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OP CANTON-Head Office: HONGKONG.
J. C. Goatling and Company (Limited)—Portland Cement.
The Tunnel Portland Cement Company (Limited) —Portland Cement
Marshall, Sons and Company (Limited), Gainsborough—Portable Horizontal, and Vertical Engines,
Threshing Machines, Saw Benches, &c., &c.
Crossley Brothers (Limited), Manchester—The celebrated “ Otto ” Silent Gas Engines.
Bow, M'Lachlan and Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &c., Ac.
Thos. Glover and Company, London—Patent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian and Sons—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penyrorsedd Slate Company (Limited)—Bangor Slates.
The Quicksilver Mining Company, San Francisco—Quicksilver.
Pels and Company, of Patras and Corfu—Currants.
Thos. Bell and Co.—English Hams, Bacon, &c., &c.
Red Cross Preserving Company, Victoria —Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, &c.
De Wendel and Company, Hayange, Prance—Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plates, Iron and
Steel Fencing Wire, &c.
Thos. Perry and Son, Biiston—Fire-resisting Safes. Drybrough and Co., Edinburgh—Ale.
BrunSon and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse. Thos. N. Hunt—Port Wine.
Dubos Preres, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablls, Sauternes
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES.
Nirw South Wales.— Soott and Mullaly, T. AUsop, F. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros.,
Jlndera Mill Co.
Victoria.— James Pry and Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
South Australia.— w. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hincks.
fg* INDENTS executed, on the most favourable terms, from all parts of the world. Consignments
of produce received for shipment to London, under liberal advances
?ooW
THE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO.
are the largest consumers of American
Leaf in the colonies, hence the FIRST
position for quality is assigned to their Twist
and Flat Tobaccos —Yankee Doodle, Conqueror, Sir Roger (thick
twist), R. C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture, and others.
CIGARETTES.— Their CONQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold an equal position.
yF~D. & S., Importers of Pipes of every kind. Cigars, and all Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods and Sundries
HORDERN’S
ON THE
Brlc3s±l©l<3. Hill-
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS In LAGE CURTAINS.
t3P These Patterns are designed from Australian Perns and Flowers
Ladies residing
Curtains. I:
LACE CURTAINS, 100 PRICES.
in the country can have forwarded to the nearest Railway Station, Free of Charge, a Set of Lac<
you like the pattern which is represented in this engraving, cut it out, and we will forward exactly
the same pattern. See future advertisements for other patterns.
LACE CURTAINS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
nsh Linen Table Damasks, to match the Curtains. Table Napkins Linen Diapers. Embroidered Table Coven.
Mosquito Nets. Striped and Plain Window Union. Examine carefully the of our
“LACE CURTAINS.’ -
<s»
«
©
>
Price: 12s. 6d., 155., 17s. 6d. the pair.
ONE ONLY ADDRESS:—
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS,
[ LACE CURTAINS j 668 BRICKFIELD HILL. | LACE CURTAINS 1
Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
At the Presbyterian church, Kiama, last
Wednesday. W. Goodchap (nephew of the N. S. W.
Commissioner of Railways) led to the altar the
eldest daughter of Mr. C. Cameron, J.P. The
church, which was crowded, had been beautifully
decorated for the occasion. The bride, who wore
a rich robe of cream satin with a tulle veil and the
conventional orange blossoms, was attended by
four bridesmaids—two in pink nun’s veiling richly
trimmed with brochd with wreaths to match, and
two in pale blue nun’s veiling and brochd, and
pretty wreaths of “the blue forget-me-not.”
and pearl. Some very handsome costumes were
worn by guests.
• ■ •
Mrs. M. B. Prescott gave a party at Upper
Fort-street, to celebrate the marriage of her
daughter, Miss Erailie, to Mr. Rowland Heaton.
Guests were numerous and gay. Mrs. M’Donald
was handsome in a rich heliotrope elabor-
ately trimmed ; her sister in pale blue. Miss Pres-
cott was pretty in simple cream, nun’s veiling and
bunches of strawberry ribbon. Prettiest dress
was Miss Byrnes’—skirt of straw satin, pompons
and Jace, over which was a coat of turquoise blue
ottoman broch<5, suiting the fair wearer perfectly.
Her taller sister’s fine figure was garbed in white
satin, bodscecut square and sleeveless. Mrs. John
Spencer was richly dressed in garnet brochd and
white jet; and Miss Wells in blue moire antique.
Dancing and dainties were vigorously attacked
throughout the night.
* * * *
We believe the very sweetest of singers
will soon marry the cleverest of players —Mr.
and Mrs. Elmblad back from Europe in the
Ballarat On the 13th inst, Mrs. Harris, the
Mayoress, will lay the foundation-stone of the
§reat hall, to be built on tne site of the M’Elhonian
iscoverles Last week, the Secular Society gave
a farewell soiree in the Masonic Hall to Mr. Thomas
Walker: but the soul of Thomas is tormented with-
in him because Bright won’t debate Another
bazaar at Tattersall’s Buildings, for an Ashfleld
church Sir Anthony Musgrove, Governor of
Queensland, Lady Musgrove, and family, arrived
in the Sorata on Sunday morning, visited Govern-
ment House, and immediately left again in the
Ranelaghfor Brisbane—“ Mama, how long does
a honeymoon last ?” “Until you ask your husband
for money, dear.”... Woodvilie tried a geogra-
fhical spelling be®. It was a failure
vanhoe Park, Manly, purchased by the Govern-
ment for the people. Fourteen acres, and lots
of improvements promised Angus Came-
ron, who landed in 1838, died at Graf-
ton. Good old colonist gone ahead Fresh Food
and Ice Company gave employes a picnic last
Thursday, down the harbour. Cricket match
between the ice and milk department, but the
milk was too weak. Dancing also, to Prince of
Wales band Mr. John Holt lectured at Denman,
on “ the habits and fashions of society.” He said
that 80 per cent, of those moving in the higher
circles of London Society took too much alcohol,
and was severe on extremely fashionable dressing.
Now, let this be a solemn warning to Denman
Seople At Molcng, a soiree and ball for the
athollc church was good, over 100 present, gay
dresses; but everyone was disappointed that the
amiable pastor didn’t Walsh with the belie of the
ball Mr. T. R. Steel’s Literary Institute went
from Woollahra to Coogee for annual picnic
on Saturday Miss Alice Sydney Burnett
made a brilliant show at home in musical
circles, and is now back in Sydney The
Bazaar in the Town Hall, in aid of the Convent
at Ashfleld, only did moderate business the first
week, owing to the scarcity of millionaire visitors,
and other causes. The girls were beautiful enough
to tempt Croesus. The nail was, however, granted
a second week at considerable reduction, and,
when the Bazaar closed on Saturday night, it might
be counted fairly successful Old English Fair
in Barrack-room, Windsor, on 8th, 9th, and 10th
November....Dr. Thomas Fiaschl presentisod on
leaving Windsor Cry of Sydney ladles now is
“ Go to Potts.”... A Bazaar held at Bur wood was
got up by the young ones, to maintain a cot, called
the Redmyre cot, in the Children’s Hospital, Glebe.
There were eight stalls, music in the evenings, and
a good attendance Dr. Bermingham, of Wagga.
who was presented with nearly £1000 purse in the
Town Hau here, not long ago, died in London
Next Mondry, a very fashionable concert takes
place in the Protestant Hall. It is given by a
young Australian lady, Miss A. E. Roberts, helped
by other first-class musicians, and she ought to be
well supported, for the concert will be high class...
Boap-bubble parties are all the go in the States.
The decision of the umpires is based on the ap-
proximate number of Inches in the diameter of
the bubble blown. Anything over nine Inches in
diameter is regarded as exceptionally good blow-
ing While the Sydney Owls are all named after
birds, their Melbourne kindred are distinguished
by appellations of the most Hibernian kind pro-
curable, and their secretary has Inflicted on himself
the name of Michael Gllhooley. “The Lyre”
wrote down to him: “ We shall be happy to extend
the claw of fellowship to wanderers who may-
wing their way to the Queen City of the South.”
Whereupon, “ Michael Gllhooley ” replies: “ . . .
the bird who calls Sydney the Queen City of the
South is very appropriately named ‘ The Lyre.’ ”
The Melbourne man had the best of it
Government House ball at Melbourne postponed
consequent on death of the Governor’s daughter.
Arundel C.C. concert was held in Glebe Town
Hall before a good audience. Vocalists Included
Misses Belmont, Derneliy, and Nellie Harbin, who
is a naive little fairy, and was encored for “ Sweet
maiden I love thee,” so sweetly given. Another
gem was “Excelsior,” by Pier and Gee; and an
alderman’s son recited the ”Little Hero” very
sonorously. After the concert, friends of the
club had a pleasant dance till midnight... .Ivo
Bligh and Tylecote are expected back in Mel-
bourne next month. They ve each got a match
on....Mr. John Haynes, of Richmond, who is
goieg to England, was banqueted by his friends.
A man of literary capacity, versifier, singer,
lecturer, phonographer, and gentleman... . A plea-
sant garden party and dance was given at Rockley
Villa, Ashfleld, a few days ago....Large party last
week at Palmera, St. Leonard’s, to welcome home
the eldest son. Dancing till long after midnight,
nice lounges, and illuminated grounds. Among
the suburban visitors, a Darlinghurst lady shone
the brightest, in dark blue silk and peals.
HEARTLESS.
Camilla calls me heartless; hence you see
Logic in love has little part.
How can I otherwise than heartless be
Seeing Camilla has my heart ? yj D
A country editor starts a column with the
remark, “A newspaper will keep a sensible man in
sympathy with the world’s current history. ’ And
then follows a paragraph about a stuffed snake,
and a long* account of a two-headed kitten that
was littered in the office waste-paper basket. The
man whose soul would not be in sympathy with
things like this is not fit to live.
It was a Sydney youth who carried to
Madrid the news of the outrage offered to their
King by the canaille of Paris. He was at Pau in
the Pyrenees when the accounts of the insults
were flashed by telegraph. The wires on the
Spanish side had been cut by the mutinous soldiers
in the late rising. Starting at night, this plucky
colonial made his way through a country swarm-
ing with guerrillas. Past old towns, immortalised
by Cervantes and Lope di Vega, he pursued his
dreary journey till the towers of Madrid appeared
on the horizon, and stately Spanish men crowded
round to greet the Young Englishman from across
the sea. “ How did he preserve his clothes so well
on the way?” was asked in sweet Southern
accents by some dark-eyed senoritas in the
crowd. The blushing youtn put his hand in his
trousers pocket, and, drawing out a reel of Jonas
Brooks and Co.'s adamantine cotton, presented it
to the maiden. This was the secret. When any
of his things gave way on the road, he sat on a
fence, removed from the eyes of pruriency, and
the opinion, given in his own words, is:— ‘ With
one exception of wax-end, I vo found nothing like
Jonas Brooks and Co.’s cotton for fixing a patch
so that little short of dynamite can shift it. ♦
The Hon. James White, M.L.C.
On our front page this week appears a portrait of
the Hon. James White, M.L.C., one of the stralght-
est and most successful of Australian sportsmen.
During the last few days Mr. White achieved the
extraordinary success of winning the three biggest
events run for on the Australian turf, namely—the
Maribyrnong Plate with lolanthe, and the Mel-
bourne Derby and Cup with Martini-Henry. These
victories cannot but be popular with all true sports-
men, for the simple reason that Mr. White’s horses
—wben they do run—run straight.
Her Poet.
[A Bulletin Ballad.]
She was a lady lowly born,
But plump, and passing fair:
And, oh, she had, It must be told,
A lovely head of hair I
She’d clip and comb it all day long—
Of her locks she was vain;
And her delight was, ’fore the glass,
Te cut and comb again.
The sun upon those burnished locks
Bright through her window shone;
And from the street there gazed on them
A pallid youth and wan.
But he had lire in his eye,
One felt that he could feel—
One knew that he was up in soul,
Though he was down at heel.
He watched that maiden, and he wrote
Her verses that did thrill,
And tied them to the jalousies
Upon the window-sill.
Prom Winter until Summer came,
There was a poem each time;
So days when she beheld no frost,
She always found her rhyme.
He used to by the lamp-post stand,
In rather cloudy socks,
And watch her, with a pensive gaze,
As she combed out her locks.
Transfixed he seemed beneath that hat
(A snail-walk was its brim);
And, if she let a hairpin drop,
’Twas hairpinness to him.
One morn she watched, and he came not,
The air was calm and still;
When, 10, she fell asleep—her head
Upon the window-sill.
Up rose the sun, and bright It streamed
Upon those looks so fair:
Ah, never did the dawn disclose
A fairer sun and hair I
“ Say, wilt thou love me ever, dear 7”
But there came no reply;
His left arm was around her neck,
His ear pressed on her eye.
A flash—a second—and a third I
A murmur, “Oh, you sweet I”
And, ere the street could drop on him.
He dropped on to the street.
A human mop was posed on high.
Two hands ahead did seek;
And 10, behold, the lowly street
Resounded with a shriek I
For, in her hand she held a note—
“ Good bye, sweet lady fair;
I do not trade in human hearts,
But deal in human halrl’’
l The hearing of the action for £1000, brought
I by Mr. Field, barrister, against Mr. Justice Win-
i deyer, for words used in an address delivered by
I the Judge at the Sydney Mechanics’ School of Arts,
. is fixed for the 36tn instant.
[ El Mahdi is about to visit a certain Aus-
J trallan colony for the purpose of entering libel
actions against the papers which have called him
I “the false prophet.” He doesn’t Intend to em-
i, ploy counsel—he relies on the Judges of the local
[ Supreme Court.
’ Alderman John Young thinks that Aider-
man J. D. Young is a ruffian and scoundrel. Aider-
man J. D. Young entertains the opinon that
• Alderman John Young is a mutton-headed calf.
| If we printed this paper in Victoria we’d make
several remarks.
Mr. Asmus, of the Endeavour River (N.Q.),
has planted on his selection 1600 cocoa-nut trees,
I which, although planted only two years ago, now
average Oft. in height, 50 being over 13ft. In four
or five more years, these trees will begin to bear,
and are likely to continue furnishing a source of
wealth for from 70 to 80 years.
The correspondence between the late Ad-
miral Pierre, Commander Johnstone, and Governor
(of Mauritius) Pope Hennessy, concerning Mada-
gascar troubles, shows that Johnstone acted like
an impetuous ass, and Pierre like a sensitive
gentleman. We quite agree with this remark of
the London Times:—” It seems certain that In this
case the bequ r6le was rather with the French com-
mander, whose very curious and unexpected
letter about Mr. Shaw proves that he can tx ply with
courtesy to a courteous and with rongnucss to a
violent letter,”
“The Rev. Baptist minister, of South
Australia returns from the pulpit to his lormer
profession ‘of the law.’” — Exchange.
Long, by the laws of God, his aim
Was to inculcate peace;
Now, by the laws of Man, his game
Is hot strife to increase.
How easy ’tis with ample “gammon,”
To serve alike both God and Mammon!
The other day, Billy B was best man at
• a wedding. Just after the ceremony, as he was
( about to majestically sail down the aisle, bearing
on his arm his beauteous and accomplished chief
bridesmaid, he saw an old gentleman in rusty
: black, who appeared to want something. “Ha!
ha! ” mentally exclaimed Billy—” the verger
wants tip.” So he squeezed a sovereign into the
hand of the old man—who turned out to be—who
d’ye think ? Why, the bride’s lather I
We are sorry to hear that Mr. J. H. Nixon,
editor of the D.N. Argus, Rockhampton, blew out
his brains with a revolver on Monday. He was
) originally an architect by profession, and ere he
i migrated to N.Q. he designed churches, planned
1 houses, and as an outside journalist made ink flow
, for the behoof of the men of Wagga. Years back
t he was editor of the Hamilton Spectator, the
3 best country paper in Victoria, and iu the old days
i he was, we believe, attached to the staff of the
Melbourne Herald. Vale, Nixon I
) The post betting on the Derby was simply
r phenomenal —6 to 4 on Archie, 5 to 3 against Off
i Colour, and seven other horses in the field, most
3 of them well backed. The poor backer with a
3 penchant for “standing first and second favoui-
3 ites” found himself in the position of laying
r nearly eleven to two upon the pair coupled. How
- the mouths of some of the old country “ b mkies ”
1 will water when they read “the odds,’ for, assum-
3 ing Archie’s position in the betting to have een
I a genuine one, “ 6 to 1 bar one ” would have been
1 none too extravagant an offer.
j| derby betting.
I On Archie it was five to four,
3 And, 'gainst Off Colour, five to two
i (They ought to lay a little more—
3 Those odds, you know, are very few),
t No wonder that poor backers swear,
r And grumble, after such a race—
i Eleven to tw» upon the pair,
I And neither of them gets a place!
> Bad dreams, disturbed sleep, indigestion,
t stomach gas, all vanish pefore Hop Bitters. Read
and ponder.


Christmas Season, 1883-84.
GEO. ROBERTSON
Begs to announce
THAT he has NOW READY hla SUPPLIES
of
CHRISTMAS
AND
NEW YEAR S CARDS
FOR THE COMING SEASON,
Australian Cards. Australian Cards.
A VERY FINE COLLECTION,
SPECIALLY SUITED FOR SENDING HOME.
Champagne
Heidsieck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS & Co., London.
Sole Agents for Heidsieck & Co., Reims.
P. R. HOLDSWORTH,
AUCTIONEER, VALUATOR,
House, Land & Estate Agent
63 ROYAL ARCADE, PITT STREET.
i
3
5
r
i
i
t
a
I
a
8
E
C
e
>-
e
e
i-
-1s
»
u
h
i-
y
i-
h
le
g
a
ie
le
8,
ie
n
ie
w
ts
8-
k
o
Jr
f-
ic
St
A
I-
t-
r;
.N
ie
K 3
ie
>n
ie
la
as
:h
MOUNT DRUITT RAILWAY STATION.
To Close a Partnership.
PR. HOLDSWORTH will sell by publle aue-
• tlon, on the Ground, on SATURDAY, 24th
November, 1883, at 3.30 p.m.,
The new and beautifully-situated village of
COLYTON,
bounded ou the north by the Mount Drultt
Railway Station, on the south by the Great
Western Road.
Torrens’ Title. Liberal Terms.
Long Credit No Interest.
Large Allotments. Good Position.
Wide Roads. Public School.
Free train and beautiful views.
Plans ready,
63 ROYAL ARCADE, PITT STREET.
MINTO. MINTO. MINTO,
PRELIMINARY ANNOUNCEMENT.
FOR SALE by auction, on the Ground, at an
early date, by
P. R. HOLDSWORTH,
The larget and best portion of the
TOWN OP MINTO.
Title of this portion—TOßßENS’.
Terms of the most liberal character.
SPECIAL TRAINS. FREE TICKETS.
he ELDRED'G E->
<
.Correspondence Solicited
WITH RESPONSIBLE PARTIES
II FOB THE LEADING
SEWING MACHINE OF THE .WORLD.
Full particulars, catalogue and prices
.mailed on application.
.mailed o
HB
Sent post free for Is. stamps to defray postage.
“TRUTH,”
A TREATISE showing the under-surface evils
f\ of society that cause Impediments to Mar-
riage ; Celibacy ; Woman ; Advice to those about
o Marry. Also, the Injury caused by the use ■ f
Dobacco and Alcohol; How to Regain and Preserve
rour Health ; &c., &c. Address
R. T. SEBBY, M.K.,
DEVONSHIRE ST., SURRY HILLS. SYDNEY,
Pleasant, Refreshing,
XUbIIUNkJ Invigorating.
The non-aloohollo beverage acts as a brain and
nerve tonic, and does not intoxicate.
ZOEDONE
Is recommended by the Faculty as a substitute for
wine, beer, and spirits, as it invigorates without
producing any intoxicating effect. In case of
debility consequent on a long residence in a hot
climate, it is of great service, as it acts not only as
a nerve stimulant, but also as a permanent tonic
to the system.
Price per case containing 6 dozen H pints ... 1 2/
„ 6 „ 1 „ .. 24/
ELLIOTT BROTHERS,
72 and 74 Pltt-street,
Sydney.
INFORMATION wanted about FRED. IVORY,
or WILLIAMS, who was last heard of in
Sydney about four years ago. If he will apply to
Oolin Douglas, care of Gordon and Gotoh, Bris-
bane, he will hear of something to his advantage.
EVERY
MAN
SHOULD
READ
Dr. Marston’s New Work
Describing how sufferers from
Nervous and Physical Debility.
Mental Decay and all disorders
resulting from Excesses, Indis-
cretions or Overwork, are per-
manently Cured
Without Stomach Medicine*.
WEAK, NERVOUS. AND IJIPOTBHT
SEN RESTORED TO
TI6OR, HEALTH A MANHOOD
Ommltatien with Physician
and Book PEEE. Address —
Marston Remedy Co.,
71 IUZABZTH 37., BTDMIT.
The “ Widow’s Mite.”
A RACING IDS'LL.
[For The bulletin.]
Young Larry Keen with widowed mother dwelt,
A league, or more, beyond the confines
Of a Southern town. He was the son
Of one who died an early death, and cruel—
The Law's decree—while yet was Larry
But a babe, nor knew his father
Nor his fate. ,, ,
And thus was Larry Keen the darling
Of his mother’s heart; and, being
Short of statue—though in strength he far
Surpassed his parent, as her darkened eye
Oft testified—neighbours called the lad
The “ Widow's Mite.”
And she had worked through many weary years
At “ washing ” for her son's dear sake—
While he the bread of idleness did eat,
And found it pas ing sweet—until
A goodly store she boasted, saying,
“ Son, ’tis thine when [ am gone, and grass
Grows green above me.”
But Larry, from some wild companions, learned
Of “racing” and the pleasures found therein:
Of “backing moral certs,” and kindred joys,
And longed to taste of them; and, when
The year was far advanced, with many
Importunities he vexed his mother sore,
For gold from out the stocking, where
It l*y at rest, to feed his new-born
Passion. Then, with maternal kiss, she gave
A little of her store; and Larry noted well
The stocking’s hiding place.
But, in a while, the gold she gave
Was passed to strangers’ hands, and Larry—
E'en like the hero of a far-famed tale—
Did ask for more. The widow said,
With troubled voice, “ My son, take heed,
Or 111 may come to us; forsake
' his pastime and at home remain,
In sweet dependence on thy mother s toil.
Think, oh think, how happy have we been
In olden days 1 Thou at thine ease,
With pipe in mouth upon the couch.
And I employed with linen garments
Yet unclean; let not false phantoms
Wean thee from thy side.” So Larry
Answered, “ Mother, although thou rt hard
Upon my hopes, yet is thy word my law.’
That evening, when the wearied widow slept,
Did Larry Keen—with bootless foot and gentle
step—
Seek out her golden hoard, and bear It
With him to another home. And Pate
Dealt kindly with the lad—the “Cup
Was now at hand—and well he prospered.
But, when his mother came to learn
Her loss, sore sickness fell upon her,
And she could work no more.
Gaunt Poverty, with swift and certain stride,
Bore down upon the homestead, and
The brokers came; so from the friendly
“ Parish ” she obtained relief.
Meanwhile had Rumour’s tongue told wondrous
Of Larry’ 8 fortunes—how, by “ sweep ” promot-
He was richer grown; and the widow’s friend
Sent message to him of her sorry plight -
That she was like to die. And Larry
Reasoned with himself: “These sweepstakes
That I now promote go well; and yet,
Mayhap, in time, the world will tire
Of sending * quids ’ on fruitless errands, and
Ask—Who wins this tempting prize-this
Thousand pounds?
But, let It go abroad that such is won
By some ‘ poor widow,’ and her name
Be given— then is my reputation made.
“ My mother—who. In truth, deserves
Some succour—she shall gain the prize;
And men shall learn how one poor
Widow sent * her mite ’—her last gold coin—
To ‘ Genuine,’ and with her venture won
A thousand pounds. My mother now
Is sick, so in a little while the gold
May be my own again.”
And soon—as Larry had foreseen so well—
The “widow’s mite” became a household tale;
And “sweeps” increased with Larry, and, when
Foolish folk dared do' bt of his integrity.
That simple story silenced them.
The widow lower drooped—the golden shower
Refreshed her not—and died; and then
The wealth did bless once more her son—
Her Larry—" the Widow's Mite.’
Gardiner (the Rockhampton murderer’s)
last joke was: “Look ’ere, Utton, you’re goln’ to
send me to glory between two black guards 1
They were all Roman Catholics—new version ol
the “Three R’s.”
A TRAGEDY.
There was a nice gyurl named Rosa-nna,
Who danced on a skin of banana :
She went crack on the floor,
And then upwards did soar—
And, perchance, now is singing Hosa-nna.
Dr. Rose, M.L.A., Victoria, recently
delivered a lecture in the Athenaeum on “Dys-
nensia or Indigestion,” Graham Berry in the chair
?>y P speP8ia, it appears, is only another form of th(
Berrl-Berri disease, and Graham was held up as th<
frightful example thereof.
Captain Armit saysThe New Guinef
women will actually suckle young pigs rather that
let them prematurely turn to cold pork, and 11
consequence pigs may be frequently seen running
after women. Something similar often happeni
here Many good women have even gone so far w
to marry hogs.
At an indignation meeting at Townsvilh
(N O.). the other day, to protest against the land
ing of some immigrants whoi are Hi on board thei:
ship, one speakei announced “that he for one dl<
not wish to see himself left childless, nor hi
children left fatherless.” After this we may rejolci
to think that “ould Oireland will never die.
The Liverpool Herald has a stock “pic
tnre” of a very thin man balancing a very fa
man on his nose. The fat man is a passable por
trait of J. G. O’Connor, but we trust the thin on
I, not a counterfeit presentment of the edltpi
The drawing is labelled, “Justice on the Press.
A Major Morgan offered to give £5000 t
♦Ha St George’s Hospital, London, on conditio
the money was applied to a fair trial of homcec
uathv in the hospital. The offer was declined o
the ground, as stated by the Lancet, that “he
is a ‘ fad,’ not a science, and cannc
K the recognition of a general hospital.”
A man writes to the Campbelltow
Herald saying that the Gospel Army is a fallui
h. Ouaanbovan, but adds-“The Salvation Arm
will Succeed in spite of all the devil’s crew, an
when the army once gets a foot ng in your dii
trict his Satanic majesty and all his imps will n<
he able to drive them out. The great Jehovia
iricfwUl be with them.” With all our hearts. Bi
who is the Great Jehovlah ?
In Northern Tasmania cancer has rage
among the cattle for thirty years. Many anima
bo affected have been slaughtered for food, ar
milked for the purposes of the dairy, “ It is n.
then surprising,” writes a correspondent of tl
Hobart Mercury, “that attention is drawn i
the fact that 4« persons died of cancer in one yei
in our midst.’ Cheese comes to Sydney from Ta
mania.
Gundagai can always he depended on 1
supply something fresh. Just as we were despai
Ing of getung anything out of the common ill
week tne Gundagai Times cornea to the fror
A local resident there had the top Joints of thn
fingers removed, owing to an accident. A for
night afterwards, he became a grandfather, ai
the child was born with the corresponding Join
0 f the same band missing 1
Woman Items
Miss Conley, the fattest woman in the
world, is dead. She weighed 4971b. And to think
that she passed away without having met John .
[John who ?—Ed. B.]
They have found a lot of pearl-shell on the
coast of the Northern Territory. What we want to
find is a pearl-powder mine. There Isn’t a woman in
Sydney who wouldn’t take a share in it, and there
isn’t one who wouldn’t go on her knees and swear
she never used such a thing as pearl-powder in her
life.
Mary Anderson, the American actress, has
been enthusiastically described as “the most clas-
sically beautiful woman upon the stage.” Some-
how, this calls to mind a little story, satirising
“professional beauty,” that appeared in Punch in
the early “Langtry” days, and in which the heroine,
Mrs. Jack Spratt, was worshipped as being “ ana-
tomically,” the most beautiful woman in the
world. It was maintained that she would make
the “ prettiest skeleton.”
From the Nooze: — “A husband wanted
by a wealthy widow lady (six children). E.W.E.,”
Is she fair and fat and forty ?
Is she tall and thin and shrewish ?
Is she English, Irish, Scottish,
Russian, Spanish, German, Jewish ?
Is she Christian, Sintoo, heathen ?
Is she author, preacher, poet ?
Is she “ Bolam’d ” —if she be, then
I’m “ not on ;” not if I know it.
A baby-show of All Nations is about to [
take place in Paris, each baby to be in its national
costume. This item set us thinking; and we 1
went thoughtfullv out into the lane to further
consider the subject. We encountered there some- (
thing Inside a ten-inch ulster —the material bearing
a curious resemblance to our office coat; one boot,
and a home-made cap with a tlokle-tassle. Then
it occurred to us not to send him. There is hardly i
enough of character, as yet, in our national cos- ]
tume for infants. I r
Some resident of Carooar, whose dad had '
“ gone the way,” etc., got in a rage with our very
own Mary, because she wouldn’t put her paper in 1
mourning the week the old man was lowered i
down; and considers that the fair editress was 1
“ wanting in respect.” Mary then, in a par. headed
, “Uriah Heapishness,” thus walks into the 1
offender:—“ li our obituary notice is not sufficient i
. to effectually contradict the mean and wanton in- '
sinuation we can only say that there was no man
in the country for whom we had a greater regard
than the deceased gentleman, and certainly there i
is no one for whom we have a greater contempt
than his son. Bahl We hate hypocrisy.” This,
wo should say, is calculated to maae the Chroni-
cle subscriber sorrier than ever that his father
died. Oh, and before we forget—
TO HER . ALAS 1
To be correct in proper names,
Is easy and is cheap ;
If takes a double e then, know,
To make “ Uriah Keep.”
* ♦ •
In England, a child died, and, at the in-
quest, the mother, Bridget Clarke, swore she was
25 years old, had had seven children, and was
married at 13....At fashionable restaurant—Mrs.
Parvenue: “What are you going to have,
Tummus?” Mr. P.: “Oh, I ain't pertlcular;
fust on the list, if yer like?” Mrs. P.: “Fust
on the list is 1 Entrees.’” Mr, P.: Will you
try ’em? ” Mrs. P.: “Yes, let's have something
• out o’ the common. Here's the waiter, Tummus.
’ Mr. P.: “Ah, waiter, Entrees fur two.”....
There was an unsettled gambling affair between
the first Bari of Cadogan and the first Duke of
Richmond; so, to put matters straight, Lady Sarah
Cadogan, aged 13, was married to young Rich-
mond, aged 18. The nuptials took place at the
Hague, and then the tutor collared Richmond for
a three years’ tour, while Sarah was sent back to
the nursery. The young nobleman—now Lord
0 March—was in no hurry to join his wife, whom
o he considered “ dowdy. But, on returning after
” his studies, he went to see a pantomime, and was
if deeply smitten with a beautiful young lady he
noticed there. Being informed that she was the
little school girl he wed t hree years ago, he has-
tened to claim her; and their affection, unlike that
of the general run of Royal and noble couples,
lasted till the husband nut off this vesture of decay
and stood before the wicket-gate of heaven to beg
for that admission he was denied at the front
entrance... .Girls who go to Sunday-school should
v know that Goliath died from the effects of a bang
on his forehead....The giggle is unbaked dough,
r undeveloped art, uncooked veal, incipient laugh-
' ter. It belongs never to man or woman: but
.A merely to girls .A woman went into a grocers
shop in Sunderland, and asked for a pound ot tea.
The shopman asked what kind she wanted
,a whether she required black or mixed, and she
-n answered, “ Aa’d bettor hev it black, becaasits
In for a funeral I ” America has a girl dwarf, la
ig years old, and only weighs 41b. 3oz. An American
38 medical journal bears testimony to the facts that,
518 when born, she only of a lb., and was
but 9 inches high,
le . _ —
ir In the window of a Brisbane pop-shop
Id the proprietor has for sale an oil-painting of Adam
is and Eve, which was apparently drawn shortly
ce before that breezy period when, as “ Britain's bul-
wark” says, “they sewed together fig-leaves and
_ made themselves aprons.” And side by side is a
c : large placard which says “ Left-off clothing pur-
at chased here.” Wonder what our very first parents
got on their bundles ?
>r. “ The Parliamentary picnic is to take place
next week. This morning the Commissioner of
to Trade and Customs, and the officer in charge of
dii Ports and Harbours paid a visit to the Nelson, for
■o- the purpose of arranging matters on board. 1 he
on Nelson is to cenvoy the pickuickers to Sorrento.
io- —Melbourne Herald.
lOt SORRENTO.
Sorrento, Sorrento, Sorrento I
ra The Nelson will steam to Sorrento,
ire And the Parliament men
ny From the Parliament den
nd Will steam with the steamer over the waves to
is- Sorrento.
ah And what brings the men to Sorrento ?
lut And what brings their wives to Sorrento 7
And what brings the thoughts
Of the people in lots
, To steam with the steamer over the waves to
al f Sorrento ?
,nd
Sorrento, Sorrento, Sorrento I
Here’s why they steam to Sorrento:
to The Parliament men
9ar Of the Parliament den,
88 ' who’ll steam with the steamer,
Have dreamed with the dreamer,
to Have screamed with the screamer,
lir- Have schemed with the schemer,
h s Ana now want a laugh
nt. In the sun, and a quaff ,
ree Of the sea-breeze to help them to go on hereafter,
irt- With longer, with louder, with heartier laughter,
nte They steam with the steamer over the waves to
Sorrento I
The Burgoo-master of Newcastle.—Bibby,
“champion porridge-eater.”
The martial feeling in Mudgee has risen
almost to the pitch of bloodthirstiness. The local
Infantry Corps has been formed. It Is 84 strong.
The commandant, It Is said, in order to calm the
excitement of the men, intends pretty soon to lead
them out on a rabbit campaign; the burrows to be
carried at the point of the bayonet. He professes
to feel confident of victory. In the meantime,
these ferocious warriors fill up with shandy-gaff,
and make desperate havoc among the hearts oi the
scullery .slaveys.
We had a grin at Bobby Byrne’s poetry
the other day ; but how about this sample from
Adelaide Punch ?—
“ Wick Mister Simon ’as a bll,
Hand wonts to make It lor,
Hit may be kwite kereot but still,
Hits the rummest 1 hev sor.”
We suppose this Is what Mr. Barley would call
“wholesome fun,” too. And what, we wonder,
would be that gentleman’s critical opinion of the
following, culled from the same paper ?—
“ What are these capers new of Todd’s,
In mixing telegrams.
And bringing from the Melbourne gods
Such very nasty-jams.” (sic.)
This doubtless Is considered tq be “ PuNOH-copy ”
In Adelaide. Well, If any one brought ua screed
of a like nature. It should be punch copy too. And
that reminds us that the poets, anyhow, of the
Sydney Quarterly Magazine, are quite right in
considering their verse “ club” copy. Our opinion
is that way, too.
Bishop Moorhouse is a prelate with whom
we are proud to agree—in most things. He is very
earnest and honest, and being a Bishop he deserves
all the more credit for these qualities. But when
he told the people of Kyneton (Yio.) what he
thought about snobs we don’t think he had given
the subject sufficient attention. For Instance, he
says:—“A man who Is stuck up because of some
worldly advantage, or who is ashamed to acknow-
ledge that he did not at one time fill as honourable
a position as he does now, or who is ashamed to
acknowledge that his father (who was probably a
better man than himself; did not hold a very hon-
ourable position—that man Is a snob.” Now, with
all respect to, his Lordship, we say that, if this be
true, then we are willing to give a prize to
the man who is not a snob. Where is
the man who is not ashamed to own that
he was once a thief and a liar, and perhaps
worse? Not in Parliament, certainly. And the
i man who is not ashamed of his father ? Well,
there are some of these—but their lathers are
dead. If a man is a snob who is ashamed of his
past, then saint and snob are synonymous terms—
t a thing we have often thought ourselves. The
, Bishop goes on to say“ If a man is a shoe-
maker, let him try to make better shoes than any
' one else. If he does that, he may be sure that by-
, and-bye some one will take him by the hand and
3 say, ‘ My friend, you make your shoes so well
5 that you must be fit for something better.’ ” J ust
i so. And this perhaps explains why so many men
are now making laws who should be making
s shoes.
The Bogolong Bullock-Bell, a Northern
- paper, has turned its toes up. The news of this
„ collapse was flist made public by the Dubbowrie
P Damper and Mutton, which stupendous classic
tt is now in a similar predicament. We liked the
y Bullock-Bell considerably. Its snake supple-
' ment was singularly attractive, and when anyone
a sent the editor in a pumpkin-sized turnip, there
a was a sensuous sweetness about his style of 1m-
mortalizing it which was purely and wholly his
B own. The Dubbowrie paper was also favourite
reading with us. We used to like to lie down in
o the shade on Sunday afternoons and spell through
f the news pars, about the departure of our es-
teemed townsman, the plumber, and the dastardly
* outrage committed by some fiends (whose iden-
,, tity was suspected) by blowing cayenne through
.. the Baptist Chapei key-hole. It’s a pity these nice
newspapers can’t last for ever. There is nothing
we know more soothing than to skim over a
country journal with all the proper names in the
telegrams spelt wrong, and to trace the influence
of the “ Chinese Doctor ” in the leading columns,
which deal in this instance exhaustively with the
question of the “ March of the Mongolian.’ Then
jo how sweet is the circus par. (compiled by the
“courteous and gentlemanly agent ): and how
delicious the column contribution, entitled Hints
about the habits of the iguana.” from an es-
teemed contributor” (who deals in flour). Thank
goodness, although we tearfully mourn these two
departed, there are yet some rustic prints to cheer
;o us on our road to the Golden Shore. The Gun-
dagai Bailey, for instance, is something that
never fails to enliven us, even in our heaviest
hours of travail; and, without the Parramatta
Percy, our lot would be drear indeed 1 The Tam-
worth Observer, too, has a plum-duff and salt-
horse flavour about it which is as good as a dinner;
and, so long as wo get our Bourke Watchman
regularly, we shall bo peaceful in spirit and serene
in soul, talking of the B.W., by the bye, we see
that it is threatened with a libel action by the
Cobar and Louth Herald. The Watchman, on
this taunts the Cobar editor, and intimates that ho
r will, in future, only notice that journal when it U
■, ’ edited by a man. There is a Cargoar Mary, as
as the universe knows. Can it be possible, then,
to there can also be a Cobar Charlotte, or a Loutb
Louise?
A BITTER “ CUP."
With easy air of languid grace,
That seems In poets born
(’Twas born in me, in any case),
I strolled about the Lawn;
But, spite of smile upon my face,
At heart I felt forlorn.
I’d backed a “ loser ” in the race.
So felt, with silent scorn,
My presence there was out of place,
And of its sweetness shorn—
(How mean a poet feels—how base!—
When all his money’s gone).
That memory I can ne’er efface,
But evermore shall mourn
The day I sought -to my disgrace—
The racecourse to adorn—
(It’s nothing but a lack of space
Prevents me writing orn).
[“ For this and all mercies,” &o. &c.—Ed. B.]


W. H. PALING,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
rjIHE FEDERAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA
Incorporated under Act of Parliament.
Us
■ more. I
lerlng
i. Set
y, and
fte in
CAPITAL, £1000,000; SUBSCRIBED. £865.000.
■ Wd°°ed W R B o • Chairman
W H. Eldred, Esq.'.JP
Robert Hudson, Esq
« are
lassl-
ming
. To
ly so
*• Esq.,
Manager ; F. J-P ’
Accountant: John Docker.
Solicitors : Messrs. RobirtW. Fisher, and Ralfe.
TemP ».» D & A e
andTn Euro“ d A * encies throughout the Colonies
F. S. MACDERMOTT, Manager.
tM’S
sold,
The
M
1
00
n
3
O
£
■3
aq
The
the
ling
ner
LE
iB-
tE.
VISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT. 170 PITT STREET.
FOR
CHEAPNESS. FIT. AND WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded tn on ,
fart of the Colony to anj
W Vnera-iAodrowngas B 8 E
Apply to
D.
kekly and CO.,
E ’ I 71 G °u‘turn-street, Sydney.
18> I and
<*'-«•
sunper rooms at the Hay Demonstration, and the
lighting of Croydon Station. He undertakes to
lighting" oustorners 111 three minutes the mode of
A liberal discount will be given to storekeepers
on remittances per orders, and goods forwarded
with quick despatch. Orders ana remittances to
be sent to the above address. No orders attended
to without remittance.
,t, .. / , LIST OF PRICES:
4 Light Gasalier £3 10
2 10
1 15
5 10
2 10
2 0
0 17
0 5
0 2
0
0
0 to £2
0
0
5 0
3 do. do.
2 do. do
2 Light Brass Table Lamps
1 do. do. do
Brass Bracket Lamps, burn 16
hours
Wall Bracket Lamps, do.
Globes and Fittings
Fluid, In cases, 8 gallons.. .. „ H u Kal
a J.f aL . flu i d R lT® B a u * ht e( l uai !2s worth kero-
®® n ®; as to the mode of lighting sent
to clients with despatch of goods.
Goods sent to all parts of the Colonies.
0
6
0 each
6 gal.
THE HARWOOD
Fibre Chair Seating,
and Cheapness.
THIS CHAIR SEAT Is made from the strongest
known fibres and a perfectly waterproof
cement, and after fifteen years’ constant use, we
can speak positively as to Its merits. It caAnot
Bff 8 ff L°l'* cbeck ' neither will exposure to sun or rain
*Ui©Cl Ik.
Awarded Gold Medal at the late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association,
For RE-SEATING It is unrivalled. In every
house, store and office, are chairs with seats broken
Any person can re-seat and make as good as new a"
chair that is otherwise worthless, at a very trifling
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE FOR HOME USE.
Agents Wanted in Every District.
From £3 to £5 a week can be made by any smart
man or boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
82 CLARENCE STREET.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
Stock, Station, and General Com -
mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
M i t
TONIC NERVIN!
REGISTERED.
\ SAFE, certain, and speedy cure for Nervous
General debility, and all oomplalnte that
spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia.
Nervous Headache, and Toothache, Indigestion
Loss Prostration, Ac. By its
_ tt uuicsttie u
Elliott Brothers, and B, Prosser & C«.
Abraham’s Pilh
(DANDELION),
THE QREA I’ LIVER REMEDY,
farourlti remedy. We all suffer mor
srom5 rom ii ver complaint, thereby hinderin,
tho I rOI S 'P S, their functions. Se
or 4 er py taking the above remedy, am
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
M your rltal forces ar<
depressed, if you have a feeling- of general lassl-
<ffiSC d^S k 'S S£5Sf t Sg
“ “° rem " dT “
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion of
frnmTo adies ,? n 4 allmenM attacking the human
frame are really due t o a disordered liver. Set this
organ in order and health returns as if by magic.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
ptt S i £ her , e ar . e Imitations, ask for ABRAHAM’S
hiirfi thrP? C that ®? cb box > by whomsoever sold,
Lab * atnry Vent ° r ’ " arao and trade “ark. The
484 George Street, Sydney.
• ; *_:
EASY TERMS SYSTEM S? INSTRUMENT.
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC,
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
L E ?J£?^ S^ SHORT Hokn BOURBON.-The
annlt of the army, navy, the clubs and thp
American gentlemen; will soon be the' leading
vnn to Australia; It has no rival; the oftene?
you try it the more you Ilk© it.
S. HOPPNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ys in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
tRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWA RE,
PAPERHANGING S!
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
nursery pApers.
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, &o.
Imported by
Alexander Borthmck,
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead. Oils, Paints, Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &c.
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
W' Bell and Co,, and Palace Organ Co.,
THE BEST MAKERS IN THE WORLD,
AT EXTRAORDINARY LOW PRICES.
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OP NEW SOUTH WALES.
I
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & CO.,
I, 111
397 GEORGE STREET,
56 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ Tools, Founders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery, @oach
-Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricultural
Implements.
«al
S'
11
Sw
g I -a
k ® ®
IteE
do n o
ll> 6
K
i.
a. p
W ®
2 *
a »
»-i po
SB
e-S
Ea
3?
n.
MACHINERY.
athes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting and Screwing
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers, S
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY,
aw Benches Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret Saws. Genera
Joiners and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam-power,
Sl . English and American Agricultural Implements.
■ JEUS&iSSS C P «C„ H rCT^
Coa Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
Furolshlnga, Tam ls h«, and
8 ■ Uww on “ of jMa’SMa« ms Iro ° ; oai ''“ , “ d ’
Wo Squatters’ Supplies.
Pack*, Sheep Shears, Oils, Raddle, Tw Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing and Dam Making
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Ringcs, Nalls, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest Improvements In Carpenters’ Tools.
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND CO.,
397 George Street, Sydney.
uiouco, xjrusnes, uoia .bear, <kc.
tlas Foundry & Engineer-
ing Company,
HAY STREET SYDNEY.
Engineers, Boilermakers and Shipbuilders,
Iron and Brassfounders, Coppersmiths and
Millwrights.
*J-Jj.® flrm ar e prepared to undertake con-
tracts for the manufacture of Marine and Station-
ary Engines, Boilers, and Girder Work, *
ary Engines, Boilers, and Girder Work, Quartz-
flTMr, imnrnrmnDnfii J ’
latest Improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and beat
price given for metal.
EURE
KA
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
THE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco of the Age I
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The only Tobacco combining Excellence of Quality
with Economy In Price.
Each PLUG is STAMPED with the word
EUREKA. Smokers see that you obtain It.
Fake no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
Sapell’s Tobacco Co., Lin.
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
\.nd can be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse,
Park-street, Sydney,
iold Retail everywhere, and will bo used by every-
body as soon as its merits become known.
. . 4 , EUREKA TOBACCO,
tegislered according to Act of Paruament, to pro-
tect the public against spurious and worthless
Imitations.


■ 3?xos;pectTa.s
OF THE
New South Wales
FRUIT COMPANY
(LIMITED),
For the Canning. Drying, Preserving, and
Sale of Australian Fruits,
To be submitted to a Public Meeting*. convened fnr
Saturday 17th November, 1883, at tte WoSfpik
Hotel, Parramatta, at 3.30 p.m.
To be registered under the Companies Act with
liability limited by Shares! ’ “
Capital - - £20,000, In 20,000 Shares
of £1 each.
When 10,000 Shares shall have been subscribed for
the Company will be declared formed. ’
.Terms, 3s. on application, and 3s. on allotment
the balance to be called up by the Directors, “Ire-
after to be elected, as may be required for the
operations. 116 extension of tne Company’!
No charge will be allowed, except for out-of
for advertising and prlltil/r'
should the Company not be formed.
Provisional Directors:
Bankers:
T H ® ° b i® cts of tWs Company are to Can, Dry
and Preserve Australian Fruit, and to ree-if.
late the sale thereof locally and by export It is
intended to establish Canning kll the
great fruit-producing centres of New South
fey SSSIS 1 a 8Ultebte
It is assumed that the profits of th's Comnanv
compared with like establishments in Am“rica-
where such marked results have been obtained
Sgreasonsf— 3try ~ wl11 be Mr » e * f »r the follow-
1 ‘ 11 utitiea 18 annually wasted
2, The average price of that actually marketed
is much less than that said to be paid by
Canning Factories in California. P y
3 - ‘ffaKI&olS? 10 1,8 0h ““’ er kere th “
4 * T di?t™?°™ e jL a^K 0le bears tbe ad valorem
duty of Id. per lb. on preserved and 2d per
P5? r . l0 d fruits, added to which there are
freight, insurance, and shipping* charges.
®* lb ,® English and Continental Markets can
also be readily supplied, our climate and
central position In the Pacific being favour-
able to quick communication with other
countries.
The Australasian’s correspondent in America,
speaking of the St. Jos5 Works, says that the
buildings are in ranges of two stories, and occupy
°£ 550 x 137 feet * “ That in 1865
this joint sto9k company (which is one of seven
large canneries near San Francisco) was incor-
aad best proof of its success is the
t?«t that the business has steadily increased, neces-
of tb e premises from
time to time.Since last season the plant has been
extended, so that the output of the present ye ir’s
operations is expected to double that of the pre-
vious year.” Tfie estimate, in lb. tins alone, is
three million cans (3,000,000). As the fruit is pre-
served in syrup only, handsome profits must be
Fam ho says, “7,400,0001b. is the esti-
mated output of this Company.” A profit of Id.
per lb. on which would be £30,833 6s. 8d. (nearly
16 per cent.), or at 6dU. per lh fa fair nHw)
upwards of £200,000 sterling, and he thinks this
Industry should be more profitable in many parts
of Australia than in California. The population
around St. Jose is 10,000, whilst that of the Fruit
ending Parramatta is considerably
greater (if not double). This Company will afford
the grower improved prices for his fruit, which
for the most part does not average Id. per lb. at
present (and owing to the unsatisfactory market
conditions he also Incurs avoidable losses), but
when canned it would be worth 6d. to 7d. per lb.
market’ l° we st computation in this
. A great impetus would be given to fruit grow*
ing, thus making Orchards a secure and profitable
investment, increasing the value of land, and
benefiting the consumer by a steady and cheap
supply of wholesome fruit at all seasons, and like
our Wool and Meat exports, the Markets of the
World would be available to this industry when
fairly established in this colony.
henry w. statham,
Lambert Grange, Parra.natta.
Or, S. MacDonnell’s Offices,
312 George-street, Sydney,
To whom applications for shares may be addressed.
Form of Application.
To the Directors of the N.S. Wales Fruit Company
(Limited).
Gentlemen,—
I hereby apply for Share*
in the above Company, for which I enclose crossed
cheque for £ : : being Deposit at tue
rate of Two Shillings per Share, and I agree to
accept the same or any less number that may
alloted to me ; and to sign the Memorandum oi
Association when called upon to do so.
Signature
and
Address
in full.
SNAPS.
The New South Wales Bush Missionary
Society is advertising for “an earnest Christian
man, accustomed to travelling in the bush and the
management of horses, as bush missionary.” We
have had a wide experience in these matters. Wo
have been earnest Christians, and thoroughly
acquainted with the peculiarities of horses—but
not at the same time. As knowledge of horse-
flesh increases, Christianity declines. When, at
last, you have mastered the whole science of
horses, there is not enough Christian feeling left
to keep you from assaulting a policeman or rob-
bing a church. A man who knows everything
about a stable should never be employed in a posi-
tion of trust, and, least of all, in the care of souls.
There have been earnest bush missionaries, just as
there have been earnest horses; but they always
walked. Indeed, it is a well-known fact that ob-
servant bush horses have a deep-seated distrust of
itinerant preachers. They know by experience
that when those persons mounted them for a forty-
mile ride, to attend a meeting for the suppression
of cruelty to animals, a couple of saplings and a
pair of spurs were worn out on the journey.
Hence it is that when an earnest horse and an
earnest Christian happen to find themselves dos—d
dos, the Christian so often finds himself clawing
the air as if shot out of a catapult, and profaning
like Hamlet when his father’s ghost gets wedged in
the trap-door and has to be cut out with a hand-saw.
♦ * *
They say that frogs are becoming a
favourite article of diet in America. Hunting for
frogs they call froggying. We are far behind
America in democratic notions. Here we have
on ly got the length of toadying.
In pursuance of the cowardly and libellous
policy of the newspaper to which he is attached,
Mr. Hugh George has called Mr. Archibald Hamil-
ton Jacob, M.L.C., “aman.” Mr. Jacob (whonever
tells a lie) has retorted by calling Mr. George “a
man.” We prefer to believe Mr. Jacob.
A few weeks ago, the anniversary of Tel-
el-Kebir was celebrated in England. Foreigners—
citizens of the great Continental military empires
— looked on with mixed feelings, compounded of
amazement and amusement, to see the Guards’
Colours crowned with laurel, hear Arabl compared
W th Napoleon I., and Tel-el-Kebir with Sedan.
At the Egyptian battle, the Guards were in re-
serve, never fired a round, but were kept at a safe
• ostauce while the Scotch and Irish regiments of
tne line rooted outa “rabblement of donkey bo.\s”
from behind earthworks that a tribe of Maoris
Would laugh at. The Duke of Connaught piloted
the Guards, while His Royal Highness Teck shep-
herded the post-office. It is said on good authority
t hat not a single registered letter containing money
went astray during the whole campaign. This re-
flects great credit on the Duke’s administration.
'There are some people we have our eyes on who, if
a chance like this fell in their way—but it is as well
to be cautious. The two Dukes returned to England
and were loaded with honours fairly earned in an
arduous undertaking. They had spoilt the
Egyptians any way, but not so successfully as
Bonaparte did eighty years before, nor yet so
deftly as the Jews worked the job some time ago.
Connaught was quickly promoted for the stand he
made, and is now the Nation’s Hope should duty
again call us to the tented field. Teck has gone a
little crooked since, and had to.sell off a few things
to keep the kids in knickerbockers. When the
Guards reached London, having left the poor
“liners” to hold their own against sand-flies, and
cholera, they were simply mobbed, told that the
eyes of the world were on them, and that Sedan was
** very indifferent tubers ” compared with Tel-el-
Kebir. Now they are crowned with laurels, and
geta week’s run of the canteen. Next to establish-
ing a post-office on the Pyramid of Cheops, we
would elect, if we were only 6 feet instead of 4 feet
11 inches, to be a full private in the Guards.
Captain Brown, of the Salvation Harmy,
Invercargill, N.Z., seldom opens his mouth but he
puts his foot in it. He wears number fifteens,
his mouth, however, has been excavated on a suffi-
ciently cavernous scale to meet the requirements
of the case. Recently, at one of the meetings, he
noticed a respectable youth who could not help
smiling at the enormous abyss which yawned
between the Captain’s ears when he started the
hymn, and the Captain thereupon stopped howling
and addressed him as follows: “ Go home, sir,
and buy a paper collar and put on a clean
shirt, and give the poor little creatures a rest.
Their feet will get sore running in your flesh.”
Next evening a large crowd of determined people
assembled at the Salvation theatre, and whenever
Brown opened his mouth, the crowd threw stale
»ggs, old boots, bags of flour, tins of cayenne
r c 'her, and other missiles into the orifice, and the
«/ Jnlain couldn’t preach or pray worth a cent to
•~\9 his life. When the meeting was over, the
ptepio followed Captain and Mrs. Brown home,
haw ring and yelling all the way, and finished up by
throwing about a ton of road metal on the roof of
their house. Next night the Captain, convinced
against his will of the error of his ways, confessed
that b--s was in the wrong, and apologised very
li t.mlwy to the young fellow ho had so atrociously
ins t Jed, But Brown’s reputation as “ Captain ” is
G'j n pletely shattered.
• • •
At Christchurch, N.Z., a digger from the
West Coast has turned up with the following yarn.
Thirteen years ago, he says, he took out a bank
draft on London for £750 from a bank in Christ-
church, and, with that in his pocket, started for
Dunedin Intending to ship there for England.
While in Dunedin a big fire occurred in the
Octagon, and, in his endeavours to save a woman’s
life at the imminent risk of his own, he received
several injuries, and also lost his bank draft. Sad
to relate, the injuries he sustained in the fire had the
effect of completely deranging his memory, so
that for thirteen years he forgot all about
his loss. He went back again to the diggings,
made more money, and lately lost about £loOO by a
bankruptcy ; and, while brooding over this
calamity, he suddenly remembered the circum-
stance of the lost draft for £750. A visit which he
has paid to the different banks in Christchurch has
hlthcit ) been fruitless. None of the bank managers
admit having received the money; but, as there
have been numerous fires among the banks them-
selves, it is quite possible that some of the bankers
have also lost their memories in the same strange
way. It would be much stranger, however, if they
found them again and gave the man his money
back, with interest added—but it isn’t likely.
Perhaps you haven’t heard the “ Hot
Potato’’yarn. Well, here it is. He was a Presby-
terian clergyman residing in one of the windiest
towns in N.Z., and he dearly loved a young lady
living with her parents in the same place, whom
he proposed (d.v.) to marry as soon as the heads of
his congregation had got through the bankruptcy
court and could afford to build him a suitable
habitation, in the shape of a manse. The “ best
laid schemes,” etc., and the marriage did not come
off. In the shepherd’s fold there were three
maiden ewes—in other words, three elderly Scotch
spinsters—who had left “ Auld Reekie ” for New
Zealand late in life because they had heard that
ladies were “unco scarce” in that cjlony, and
no matter how antiquated a virgin might be
she was sure to “get a mon o’ her ain” as
soon as ever she set foot on its golden shore.
Therefore, when the three mature maidens heard
that their “ meenister ” intended to marry a mere
chit of a girl, instead of one of themselves they
didn’t grow in grace much for some time
afterwards. In fact, there was, if anything, a
backsliding on their part. They went about
slandering the young lady whom their pastor
had chosen, in the most bitter and malicious
spirit imaginable. When, however, they made
the discovery that her father was a retired
pawnbroker, and was not even wealthy, their
victory was complete. This news, which they soon
made public, was too much for the parson. He
wrote a letter to the young lady, in which he re-
counted the many rumours that were circulated
about her, all of which he professed to believe, and
concluded the epistle by stating that he would have
nothing more to do with her, and from that day
“ would drop her like a hot potato.” This elegant
expression became famous and popular with pro-
fane people in the district, and the reverend gentle-
man was afterwards known among the diggers as
the “ Hot Potato,” Chancing, when on his travels,
to stay one night at a country hotel, he had to con-
tent himself with a double bedded-room already
tenanted by a commercial traveller,.who, however,
woke up, probably feeling the air hot and sulphure-
ous, soon after the entry of the clergyman. The
traveller did not take the trouble to look up and
see who the late arrival could be—he was tired,
and if “Auld Clootie” in person had dropped in
the chances are he would not have noticed it. But
after the lapse of a few hours, they began to talk
politics. And, speaking of various people they
both knew, the traveller said: “You seem
to knew everybody in this province. Now,
tell me this; do you happen to know a man they
call the ‘ Hot Potato ’ hereabout ? I believe he is a
blooming old parson, from what I can learn.” To
this question, no reply was granted; and, thinking
his companion had again gone to sleep, the bagman
turned him to the wall and snored away peace-
fully till morning. When he awoke, he was sur-
prised to find his friend’s bed vacant, and still more
so to learn that he had mounted horse at break of
day and ridden away In hot haste, without break-
ing his fast or waiting to get his boots blacked.
And the “drummer’s” astonishment was more
considerable still when he was told that the un-
known was no other than the identical “ Hot
Potato” of whom he had heard so much. It was
then easy to account for the early rising and
hurried departure of the disgusted and hungry
minister. i
When Sir Henry Parkes returned from his
“tower” among the crowned heads of Europe, he
was heard to say that they differed little from
ordinary people, except in possessing a rather
higher average of stupidity. This might be true
of the semi-despotic Continental families, but it is
certainly untrue of our own. For a keen appre-
ciation of their due, they have few equals. There
was a “ Garter ” vacant the other day, and some
unseemly remarks were made in England because
the royal calves of Prince Albert Victor were
tethered with it. It was suggested by some vulgar
Radicals that he was a “minor.” These disagree-
able people did not know that a royal Prince
attains his majority at 18. At that age he is com-
petent to ascend the throne, wear the crown, and
direct the councils of statesmen of 70. A young
person who is eligible for all this, ought surely to
be competent to carry a piece of string with a
boatswain’s knot on his leg.
During 1882, of 661 classified N.S.W. public
school teachers who were examined for promotion,
409 failed to gain promotion. In his report the
Chief Examiner gives a few instances of the
astonishing mistakes made by the unsuccessful
candidates, who, it must be remembered, are classi-
fied teachers all the same. One classified teacher
who sought promotion thus defined “ostracise”;—
“This word, taken from the habits of the ostrich,
has been in use to denote the state to which persons
in good positions have been reduced through som e
faux pas against the rules of good society.”
Another examinee, who is still a classified teacher,
in answer to a geographical question, wrote; “The
chain of the Pyrenees run through the centre of
Italy.” Another stated that Honolulu was “the
capital of Feejee.” Another opines that bitumen
* is the nutritious principle in eggs. Another
Includes the brush turkey among the principal
insects whose natures lead them to build dwellings
for themselves or receptacles wherein to deposit
their eggs or young. Another places San Fran-
cisco on the mouth of the “ Colarado.” Another
informs us that East and West Maitland, Morpeth,
and Singleton are in the Illawarra district. Anri
soon.
• • •
A Townsville police sergeant wound up an
unsuccessful cross-examination of a witness with
a poser: “Now, where was I when I met you at
the One-mile ?
* * *
The Inspector of Detectives in Sydney
might take a lesson from the Queensland country-
police. £500 worth of jewellery was burgled from
a shop in Blackall one night, and before breakfast
every stranger in town was securely accommo-
dated with lodgings in the gaol. The police kept
them there for ten days, and, no evidence or
jewellery being forthcoming, the seven prisoners
were discharged. Strangers visiting Western
towns ought to carry with them a passport or a
kayracter.”
At a recent Queensland election the officer
appointed to preside at one of the outside polling-
places received £40 for his services, which consisted
in riding out to the station with a baliot-box and
papers, camping in the hut of the manager who
was absent, and returning to head-quarters with
the votes polled. He was absent seven days. Only
one vote was polled, and that was his own (which
was subsequently discovered to be informal). £40
for an informal vote I In Sydney you can buy the
thoroughly formal votes of the Devonshire-street
dead, for “ forty bob apiece.”
The boss of a big Sydney firm, with a view
of assuring himself of the attachment of his
employes, sends an advertisement of this kind to
the Herald :—“ Wanted, immediately, book-
keeper, (or salesman, as the case may be)—salary to
commence at so much. Apply, J.W.S.X., care
of So-and-so,” or “Box 3867, G.P.O.” Of course
it frequently happens that some of the miser-
ables in his employment apply for the billet.
So, on next pay-day, he will rub and adjust
his eye-glass, clear his windpipe, and, leering
ardonlcally at his frozen victim, remark cheer-
fully :—“ Ah, Mr. , I hear you’ve made applica-
tion for an advertised billet. Well, well. As I
don’t want to be in the road, and as I like nothing
better than to see others get on in the world too,
you are discharged from my employment. I hope
you’ll like your new billet better. Good bye.”
And the unhappy assistant, who has perhaps been
keeping a wife and family on two pounds ten a
week, leaves in confusion, and may be seen hunt-
ing for another billet till the devil knows when.
This is a true bill. Meanness, like human nature,
is many-sided. We’ve humped our drum round
Australia, have been in a great many mean
lines, and have met a great many mean people
(including the rich Sandhurst man, who serves his
guests with dry mustard so that they may not miT
too much.) But we can’t give the mean man’s
name. To quote Martin Slogger: “There’s a libel
law in this here country, and a cove wot rubs it in.”
On Cashmere Station (N.Q.) a gin was
delivered of a fine piccanniny, much to the disgust
of her other son, aged 3, who found his nose out of
joint, and plotted vengeance. Some three weeks
afterwards, his mother being down at the lagoon
and his father away hunting, this hopeful
year-old took the opportunity to chop his little
brother s head clean off with a tomahawk. The
happy father, on his return, when informed of the
circumstance delightedly exclaimed: “My word I
boodjery p’llceman bye’m bye 1”
• • •
And this, somehow, reminds us that, up
North, a man once went to a nigger camp and
asaed King Tarbrush to give him one of a number
of mangy dogs that were prowling round, to bait
an alligator-trap with. However, the darkeys
were unwilling to allow any of their mongrels to
be put to such a use. They merely pointed to a
very old shrivelled-up gin who was crouching in
the gunyah and exclaimed in chorus: “ S’pose you
gib me five tchillin’ you takeim Mary.”
Prince Louis of Battenberg is to be mar-
ried early next year at Windsor Castle, to Princess
victoria, of Hesse-Darmstadt. We don’t exactly
see why, in the words of Dryden, Englishmen
should fawn on those who ruin them, the
Dutch,” but as it for a long while seems to have
been the custom to slaver on and salaam to every
“ Yarman” princeling, we have much pleasure in
making a passing mention of the approaching
nuptials of this promising young German sausage,
who, it appears, is to be provided, like all the rest
of them, with a fat sinecure by the bleeding
mother country. Lots of Australian girls will feel
a passing pang at the news of Louis’ wedding.
When he was amongst us he was much liked, and
he was remarkably attentive to a Southern lady
who sold shandy-gaff and played the piano. And,
as might have been expected, as soon as he left,
she ran away with somebody else.
“The Vagabond ” has discovered that the
bush tribes of the New Hebrides are still canni-
bals, and that the body of a white man fetches a
high price there. We have always said it: if a
man only waits long enough, he finds himself of
some value at last. Strange that Julian should
have to wait till he is dead. And yet not so
strange.
* * ♦
This is how poor Qus. Wangenheim once
got level with a cad. As the world knows, Gus.
was an artist by instinct, and a man of infinite
humour, who had the education of a gentleman,
had travelled much, and read still more; possessed
a brilliant memory, and was the most entertaining
raconteur of his day in Sydney. Well, a certain
young naval officer on the Australian station was
a few years ago among those who visited the
Hotel Wangenheim, to quaff lager beer, drink in
Gus’, anecdotes, and laugh at his clever carica-
tures. This young officer was one night intro-
duced to an elaborate “ new-chum ” —all cuff
collar, and cheek, and at the officer’s invitation,
the new-comer accompanied him to Wangenheim’s
hostelry. “ How do you do, Gus?” said the navy
man, shaking hands with, to quote Marcus Clarke,
“the gentleman who kept a public-houselet
me Introduce you to Mr. Shemominee.” “ Glad to
meet you, sir,” said Gus, extending his hand,
which, however, the overdressed puppy declined
to take. Wangenheim then bowed; the trio talked
about various things, and at last, in response to a
pressing invitation from Mr. Shemominee—“ Aw I
.. hear you make—aw—caricatures—aw—can you—
aw—let us see you do some ?”—Wangenheim (who
knew all about Mr, Shemominee and the grandeur
of his family) sat down at one of the little marble i
tables and drew a picture of a man selling peas
from a barrow. “ Who is that, old fellow ?” en-
quired the officer. “That,” replied Gus, looking
Mr. Shemominee straight in the eves, “is this
gentleman’s uncle, who sells vegetables in George-
street.”
ou pdary-nder on this run ? ”
ksUttl'e doctor, as he opened the gate, the
post of which was being propped up by 8 a lankv
wjrnstalk. No, I ain't: I’m the same as
was the reply. What the deuce do you mean ? ”
gar?, rei ° i ° ed "»*-
A CUP DRESS.
She stood before the mirror tall,
With a smile on her pretty face;
Her new “ Cup Dress A she wore, withal,
A bright wonder of silk and lace.
Her husband, with a rueful eye,
On the wonder gazed and sighed;
He thought of what it cost to buy
This caprice of his charming bride.
But she had little thought of this.
As she made him a merry bow.
With “ Husband mine ’’—here came a kiss—
“ What do you think of me now ?”
Her smile a hermit would entice,
And her husband answered, “ Sweet,
I’m thinking how extremely nice
You would look in a winding sheet!'
THE OLD MAN’S OPINION.
The sky was dark, and the wind was loud,
And wild was the sea;
The rain from many a dull grey cloud
Fell ceaselessiy.
An old man tottered along the street.
While the rich dashed by
In their carriages; tottered with weary feet.
And a weary eye.
Poor, you could see by the look of woe
To the poor that clings—
We thought, just then, we should like to know
What he thought of things.
He told us, too, in a style suave,
“I think, if you please,
’TwovM be well to be in a good dry grave
In times like these!"
• •
CONSTANCY.
“ How long wilt thou be true ?” said I,
“ Till the stars fall,” said she;
And lo, adown the midnight sky,
A star fell suddenly I V. J. D


il
315 George Street.
RESPON ST m MU »T DIFFICULT, and MOST
ft« * .?7 ents that h ave taken place since
the opening of this establishment.
CiSltarf?™ 11113 thG MAYOR ’ S PICNIC, for 460, at
H biS rS Rniw h ils A T oß u? ? ALL ’ for MOO, Exhi-
f u P*iP?’ at which his Worship. John
BFRT ’ heir RH ’ 8 PRINCES AL-
R ,X,-L ( EARL CLAN WILLIAM,
and the Officers of the Detached Squadron.
OBOWWr?;?-’ 8 PRI ,^ CES ALBERT and
ff 0 . 8 . to Lithgow Valley Mines and Zigzag.
n!nft° r rc or ™ Government Palace
Dining Car while travelling.
to 15,000 SCHOOL CHIL-
T)piJ\T uouuivui) bU lUjOUU OUfIUUL Ulllii-
— Queen s^tueDemonstration—under
SHORT NOTICE, only receiving the
bKi''“ ouijr receiving tne
pfm theSo^Ay 8 ready ° D tbB BPOt a * nJS °
V |»BOmvf?rS P r INCES ALBERT and
nf nBo *2. Captain Cook s Landing, south side
Ra y• Picnic luncheon and refresh-
-for 100, under VERY SHORT NOTICE, re-
°J d i r a j 9-30 p.m., to be ready on the spot
at i p.m, following day.
M NAT T roM ?t R ampm E N T at the
<f AR J£t„ Fr i? ay and Saturday, sth
fSf ® October. 1883. Breakfasts, Luncheons,
Dinners, &c., for 120 gentlemen.
T HaII iADY MAYORES8 ’ RECEPTIONS, Town
The UNION CLUB BACHELOR’S BALL, at Exnt
bition Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE WINDEYER.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE INNBB.
D i^® r i at St- Paul’s College, for 150 Mem-
bers of the CBUROH OF ENQLANb SYNOD.
D fe r MB?T^Han he INTER COLONIALRIFi E
Refreshment Bars at HAWKES
BURY RACES, in Grand Stand.
king tawhiao.
Monk’s New Zealand Herb)
RdlledlßS (Registered).
Trade mark—“ King: Tawhiao.”
THE HERBAL EXT
can be administered to Infants of the
“<l*o all other paflents, however woa
and delicate, with perfect safety and certainty of
IMMEDIATE BELIEF AND EARLY CURB.
THE N.Z. HERBAL REMEDIES
are made solely
FROM HERBS, SHRUBS, AND BARK,
Indigenous to New Zealand only,
and NO DRUGS hitherto known to the medical
world are contained In the above medicines.
WOOL SALES, 1883
MY very numerous constituents, and ail it
teres ted in the wool trade, will please tak
nonce that my unrivalled
NEW WAREHOUSE
AT
Darling Harbour Railway Terminus
Will be READY FOR THIS SEASON, and that
h A a^rr epared „ to A 0 the fullest justice to th«
LARGEST as well as the SMALLEST Clips.
Each lot will be carefully Weighed and Valuer
suhmltoS l l® ceived ’ weights and valuations beinj
owners so as to hear from them be
tore sale If necessary.
Owing, now, to the attendance of Foreigt
equal to the London Market
Firm homTnl. 1 iTL orth reme mbering. Any Rank 01
F, rm holding hens on wool will, if asked, allow
owners to send their wool to me ; and any For
warding Agents, or Managers of Railways 01
T> np a nie8 ’ wi]l reoeive and forward Wool
ol other expenses. 00 “ y aCC ° Unt ’ and pay carriag£
, PROCEIEDS OF SALE will b© flvoilablfi nj
VANOp o s e ’^ t n if NY 1 TIME af i er sales tor K
effected’ IBXS@ ’ made before sales art
GRAIN B ™® TOCK ’ TALLOW, HIDES
ni™ and e 7 e J y B ° rt o f Produce wil
also meet with the greatest possible care.
JOHN BRIDGE.
MORT and CO. (Limited),
WOOL AND GENERAL
PRODUCE BROKERS.
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS
Grain and Flour Brokers.
Wool
LIBERAL ADVANCES
made on
Sheepskins,
Tallow,
Hides, Wheat,
Tin Ore, and
for SALE and Pro,luce
Wool Waghoua*andftoduee store*
and
DARLING HARBOUR, SYDNEY.
83. Pianos! Pianos! Pianos!
all lo-
se take
DES,
).
FREE TRADE and NO MONOPOLY.
Live and Let Live, these are Our Mottoes.
fact that the Foundations < t
Prnfu^i^ ■ rtu ? es ha Y e been established upon tl »
Prolits arising from the SALE OF PIANOS un th s
the E" 4 Tw enty Years by tho *
and^talk 3 or no knowledge of the Constructs i
Pnhiin+l,i 8 i35 Pianoforte. While giving tl.a
PiiDlio the benefit of our Mr. Young’s 25 vearv
! r woo? r nnd iC |‘ 1 ex ? eri « nce (5 years h/job-i
we wilT nt d tK^oo SonS l- on S on > 811(1 20 ,n N.S.W
we will, at the same time, be satisfied with n fn ■
°P.u he Cooperative Principle, sharh <
25 T^+^ Ur C" stom ers. We will sell from
can he C ps^w,^ an * tbe Ba S e claa ® of Jnstrum*» t
„ P H? I hafi £ d at a ?y Music Shop In Sydnc v,
mfr.nL ° ffe - notbln * for Sale we cann t
KS ' ■ American Organs at proportionate y
brated i. Lar ? e Btock of John’s Celt-,
orated Austrian Furniture, a sin vie article of
which we are selling at Wholesale Prices? ° *
m d n S ? eOu^ ITTLE BEAUTIES In W-|.
"utand Full Iron Frame, at £25 cash, Eleswh. i e
jßlOmore, or under a Liberal Time Payment Sys-
George E. Young and Co>,
285 PITT STREET,
South of Royal Arcade.
S | Singer’s Sewing Machines.
& CO.
Are the Recognised Agents of the
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS:
Bs. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week.
And no interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
rf BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE “SINGER,”
TURNER & COMPANY,
363 George-street.
THE ONLY “SINGER.”
Turner and Company,
578 GEORGE STREET.
that I
to the
r alued
being
an be-
ireign
arket
ink or
allow
r For-
ys or
Wool
•riage
le, as
AD-
IT.
tjAßvisrnS
*CHlhl
ERV
■~5
champion
ENGINES
/—V AND
'~s THIf
Y.
u
bi
MILLS
flour
mills
W| Un S
sC
FLEMING’S Carriage and Machinery Rep utort
22 and 28 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNI. f.
ill
’M
MOULTON’S PAIN PAuW i
CURES ALL PAIN.
_ The beat known remedy ft>r RHEUM *• runt
i. URALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTH A»; w
RAINS, BRUISES, DURNB. SCALP it.' muJ
aken internally cures DIARRHffi A., T gPF ~< y
JRAMPS, COLIC, and all other ..utfcxrr. at‘he«
md pains. _________
t*rice, 2/- Sold Everywa-vUi-t*,
C. E. MOULTON, sole PRofn:.79R r
MELBOURNE AND X) "N
PAIN
55
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT.—This favourite htun
of Stout selected with great care from ti a
host of the brewings of the celebrated firm < C
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and thereto mi
cannot be excelled. To be procured everywhoia.
CATTILL A 00.. Sole Agents.
’roS'&fflissasffi? *" *• ran,>
T he CONSULAR DINNER, In our new Banquet
ABMIDALE RAILWAY Demonstrations. Ban
BALL, 600, same evening
CITIZEN S BALL, 500, the following even*
Y "fT OI i O £ GA RAILWAY DEMONSTRA-
o/ Government Banquet for 1016
„ Grand Ball, 800, following night.
following afternoon
and evening. Also, Breakfasts, Dinners, Teas,
l uppers - in Government Dining <W to
xr^»T.S XCELIjEI^c y, Lord Augustus Loftus, the
and Ms.P., while travelling to and
from Banquet, &c., &c.
ar *o Entertainments by HJ»
WORSHIP THE MAYOR at Town Hall, &c.
Numerous Dinners d la Bime in the NSW
H^Xu? N n EN Ti PALACE DINING CAR.whlie
MENT gby raU ’ 0n acoount °f the GOVERN
T^ t i- r a numerous !ot of Private Dinners,
PMSts, Weddings, Garden Parties, Balls, Tea
lKXi?&c. ' “* BupperS ’ PlcnJo8 ’
CADET EXAMINATION, SURVEY OFFICE.
I T ls hereby notified that an Examination of
Candidate for Emplosunent as Cadets in the
™ SHrveyor-Qeneral will be held
the 28th, 29th, and 30th of November next.
Candidates must have attained the age of 16 years,
or they will not be eligible for examination.
Intending competitors can obtain further in-
formation upon applying b v letter to the Surveyor-
Cashier 1 ’ ° r personally «> the Secretary and
(Signed) P. p. ADAMS,
Surveyor-GeDeral’s once.
Sydney, 10th October, 1888.
The N.Z. Herbal Extract cures ARSOT.TTTPt v
Dysentery. Diarrhoea, Choleratic
Cholera, as NO OTHER medicine yet known to
the world can do. It CUKES, equally well chronic
or acute cases of the WORST klndsfand vee
INSTANTANEOUS RELIEF In every case.
A. & T. PRINGLE & CO.,
44 MARKET ST.
SYDNEY,
Importers of
WEIGHING
MACHINES,
AGRICULTURAL
IMPLEMENTS,
AND
MACHINERY.
BROW & MAY’S
Portable Engines, Saw Benches, Chaff Cutters,
Horse Gear, &o.
289.1
From Capt. Cromarty, U.S.S. “Penguin.”
Auckland, June 19th, 1888.
D ea . r ,Sir, -lammuch pleased with the action of
your Herbal Extract that you supplied me with
On the passage to Fiji I cured one manof an
attack of Dysentery with three doses, and on
the return voyage a lady brought a child on
board very 111 with Chronic Dysentery, which the
doctors could not cure In Fiji; the second day
the Dysentery stopped and the child left at
Auckland getting quite strongand hearty. I
am, dear sir, yours faithfully.— W. L. Cromarty?
What a Medico Says I
Bangiora, July 7,1881.
Sir,—Having sarefully examined the N.Z Herbal
Extract, I find It to be a skilfully prepared vetre-
table preparation, possessing l the properties of tne
plants from which it is derived fn a highly con-
centrated state, a fact which I have verified bv
evaporating a fluid drachm placed in a watch-
® spirit lamp. On weighing the result,
a dark green extract, 1 found the weight to be lui
grains. On further submitting the extract to
analysis I found it to be rich In tannin. In a laraS
number of oases of ordinary diarrhoea, as well Is
“hronio oases and in dysentery* I have
proved it to contain great specific control, added
lo the unusual feature in a majority of diarrhma
medicines, that it does not subsequently constipate
the bewels. I fell satisfied that, from the number
of trials I have been enabled to make of It in a
extensive practice, it is a most valuable
addition to modem therapeutics.
m^otebookf- e “ e " are tek * n atrando ™ from
ÜBLIC NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 482 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
On. TWO DOORS NORTH OF OLD SRfi'
JAMES MACGREGOR.
308 GEORGE STREET. 7
°^9cokWi^
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD S
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
'MANUFACTURER OP THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The new tobacco.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
Tho LION RED TAG is the* NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO:
rTNPRECEDENTED suooeas follows the intro-
U duction of the LION TOBACCO ;it is science
against ignorance, and science wins : therefore
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
smoke a decent Tobacco like the favourite LION
-jouaceo uae tne ravourlte LION
with"a^ooclorate h I (^ lbine6 a very *upwlor quality
JHEYDE, TODMAN & CO.,
TOKK STREIT, STSMXT.
Mrs. M-
Case No. 1.
- , West; Byerton, suffered for two
years from Chronic Dysentery, which had reduced
not !?V t ®^®. leto “- After a fortnight’s trial,
• h * d the Di arrhoea stopped, but she oom-
® atl , n «’ m eat without pain and the usual
gStoMS ; w v eSt! DBr * In two monthfl Bhe had
Case No. 2.
A. 0.. child, aged five years. Fortnight Diarrhoea,
was effeetually cured on the third day.
Case No. 3.
Bold j er wbo had eontraoted Dysentery In
India got a small two ounce phial, and was well
before he had finished half of IK
(Signed)
Charles DkLaoy MacCarthy, M.A., M. 8., Ac.,
Trinity College, Dublin,
Surgery, Ranglora, July 1881.
Monk’s New Zealand Herbal Mixture
for Neuralgia.
fnTii? m * x * ure acts like a charm In the above paln-
nu disease, and giving instantaneous relief.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
33 COLLEGE STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
h TEETH on the most approved Enjr-
-1 sh Principles, Fitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastica-
tion, Natural Appearance, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping:, Scaling:, and Extractions skilfully
performed.
James Carroll,
FREE SELECTORS’ & MINERS’ LAND
AGENT,
WENTWORTH HOUSE, CHURCH HTT.T..
SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
FOWLER’S POTTERY and
BRICKWORKS,
OAMPERDOWN, NEAB SYDNEY.
PrlM List on application.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and Magazines received toy t
every Mail.
ROYAL ARCADE, 196 GEORGE 8T„ SYDNEY. <
From Captain Kennedy, U.S.S. “ Hauroto,”
Port Chalmers, February 7th, 1883.
r >T‘Thanks for the Medicine you were
to send me> 1 have onl y sa 7 that
he,S y B evere attack of Neuralgia in the
also fT- afforded me considerable relief. It has
oua like bein * “ the leaat nause '
I remain, dear sir,
Yours faithfully,
Mr.H.D.Monk. A, Kennedy.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
PerBon Bnff eringr from DYSENTERY or
hn A K H * EA (no matter how long standing, or
vJL bad the cas «) will be supplied with MONK’S
ZEALAND HERBAL EXTRACT, a Certain
© medy, FREE OP CHARGE (upon production
. 0r a note from the Mayor or an Alderman
the tr Municipalit y in which ho or she resides to
it. 4^at the sufferer is too poor to pay for
Medieine), on e ppllcatlon to
PRED J. MUIR and CO., or
HORACE D. MONK, Proprietor,
, 99 Elizabeth-street,
Near King-street, Sydney.
21


WOOL SEASON, 1883-4.
R. Goldsbrough & Co.
(LIMITED),
In which are amalgamated The Australasian
Agency and Banking Corporation (Limited),
and R. Goldsbrough and Co.,
WOOL & GRAIN BROKERS.
Capital.
£3,000,000.
BEG to notify the Woolgrowers of New South
Wales and Queensland that they make
liberal Cash Advances, on favourable terms, on
the ensuing clip of Wool, and on Station securities.
They have also much pleasure in announcing that
their NEW WAREHOUSES at Darling Harbour
win be ready for the reception and sale of Wool,
Auction Sales of which will be held every FRIDAY
throughout the season. This department will
remain under the control of an efficient staff of
experts, who will take charge of and Sell to the
Best Advantage all consignments entrusted to the
Company’s care. The Sales of Fat Stock (at
Homebush), Station and Freehold Properties.
Grain, Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, and General
Station Produce, will be under the superindence of
Mr. GEORGE MAIDEN. The Warehouses will be
unrivalled in the Southern Hemisphere for extent
and adaptability to the trade, being replete with
every Modern Improvement for the Efficient Dis-
play cf Wool, the sale of which will b conducted
on the Melbourne system. Large and complete
samples of each ellp will be shown in the well-
lighted SAMPLE ROOMS, which comprise the
whole of the upper floors, and as the bulk will be
easily accessible in the various rooms, which are
convenient to each other, the fullest facilities will
be available for inspection, thus ensuring the ut-
most confidence in purchasing. Prior to offering,
valuations will be made by several experienced
valuators, and their valuations will be carefully
compared before the wool is submitted for sale.
The various lots, no matter how small, will be pro-
tected up to the full market value. As they con-
fine their business strictly to that of SELLING
BROKERS ONLY, the best guarantee is afforded
that no parcel will be sold for less than its worth.
Farmefi’ Lots receive special attention, every bale
and sack tn the clip being shown in the Sample
Rooms. Should owners’ expectations not be
realized in ‘ ydney, they have the advantage of
trying the ..elbourne market before deciding on
shipment ... which latter case the Company is pre-
pared to' make liberal cash advances at lowest
market ra-es, and consign to the English, Conti-
nental, or American markets for disposal. The
charges on Wool offered for sale, but not sold, are
only ONE SHILLING PER BALE, which includes
Receiving, Warehousing, Insurance whilst in store,
and Delivering.
LONDON-156 & 167 LBADENHALL STREET.
MELBOURNE—BOURKE& WILLIAM STREETS.
SYDNEY-4 SPRING STREET.
WRIGHT, HEATON &QO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom house
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE :
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern
Gouiburn
Fans
Downing
Blnalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Junee
District, N.8.W.;
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rook
Culoairn
Cowabee
Narandera
H along
Carratnool
Hay
Western District, N.8.W.;
Capertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
Neverttre
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblln
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
Northern
Morpeth
Gunnedah
N arrabrl
Walgett
District, N.8.W.:
Brewarrina
Tamworth
Uralla
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
SOUTHERN AND
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby
South-Western Line:
Yeulha
Cambooya
Rockhampton
Bogantungan
Emerald
Central Line:
Capelia
Comet
Northern Line:
Townsville Ravenswood Junction
Charters Towers
Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M'CULLOCH & CO., LIMITED.
Agencies in all parts of the world.
UAS
JMBR
RECOVERED,
Cl TUDY ECONOMY
and
Have y our Umbrella Frame
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-Uned and mad.
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
541 George Street,
Brickfield HIJI, between
Liverpool and iiathurst Stl
Parasols made to match cos
tumes. Repairs neatly eis
euted.
“TP
B
K
SAP
AND
3%
Ingham’s
Euphorbia
CHEST AFFECTIONS
m
ALL
m
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
WIRE WORKERS,
Wf ISH to call your attention to WIRE GOODS
T ▼ we make and have In stock as under :
FLOWER STANDS, for holding: flowers in pots,
made of iron and wire, handsomely framed and
bronzed, suitable for rooms, halls, balconies, ver-
andahs, and conservatories. Also, WIRE FERN
BASKETS, all sizes and prices.
SIEVES and SCREENS, for screening lime,
Travel, coal, &c., all meshes, from 1 hole to 100
roles tp the squares inch.
WIRE LATTICE-WORK, for protection of win-
‘ hail-
CAGES of every description, for canaries and
larrots, singly or in nests, suitable for store-
:eepers.
And every description of WIRE WORK made on
the premises.
EASTWAY, BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE-BTRBET.
OF* Illustrated Catalogues on application.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
IV. H. Ariel/ and Co.’s Agencies.
SWALLOW & ARlELL’Sprize Biscuits,
Christm
Canter-
bury, Normanby, and Christmas Family Cakes,
Plum Puddings, Mincemeat, Self-raising
ACrated Flour, Infant’s Food, Treacle and
Golden Syrup.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS.—Superior Victorian Oat-
meal and Pearl Barley.
DILLON & BURROWS 1 prize assorted Confeo-
J. KT
tlonerv.
TCHBN
& SONS, No. 1 Mottled and Toilet
Soaps.
J. F. M*KENZIE & CO.’S Coffee, Mustard, Cocoa,
Tea, in and Üb. packets ; dressed Rice,
and Patent Groats.
HUNT & CO.’S Prize Baking Powders, Adelaide
Jams Paper Bags, «&c.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
BLEND
Imara;
V_
SiClSTttfS:
/"'IOLLIB BLEND WHISKY.—This is a BLBNE
\i of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy anddehcaoj
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Bol<
Agents.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Cubits,
“CJ3n.ca.erta,ls:er,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the lab
Mr. James Curias for sixteen (16) years; also
Manager for over ten (10) years.
JOHN DANKS,
IMPORTER OF
Emits ul Tricycles
AND Al.r. THE NECESSARY
Fittings for same,
363 Pitt Street, Sydney
»» i * So
PROGRAMME of CAMDEN and CAMPBBLL-
TOWN JOCKEY CLUB RACES,
to be run on
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1883.
President: C. Bull, Esq. Judge: G. P. Want, Esq.
Stewards: Dr. Beattie, Messrs. Docker, Ahearn,
P. B. Hurley, I. Rudd, J. Rudd, A. Lenon, E.
L. Rutledge, T, CadeJl, and C. Thompson.
Clerk of the Scales : Mr. A. Lenon. Starter: Mr.
C. Stanley. Clerk of the Conrse : Mr. S. Byrne.
First Race—MAIDEN PLATE of 30 sovs, with a
sweep of 1 soy each added, for all maiden horses
at time of entrance ; second horse to receive 5
sovs from the prize. Penalty for winning once,
51b.; twice or more, 71b. Weight for age. Entries
now open. 1)4 mile.
Second Race—TRAMWAY HANDICAP of 35
sovs, with sweep of 1 sov. each added. f 4 mile.
Third Race—JOCKEY CLUB HANDICAP of 70
sovs, with a sweep of 2 sovs each added : second
horse 10 sovs from the prize. VA mile.
Fourth Race.—PRINCE OF WALES STAKES of
30 sovs, with a sweep of 1 sov each added ; for all
horses ; weight for age. Winner to be sold imme-
diately after the race for £5O : 71b. weight allowed
on every reduction of £lO on the selling price down
to nil; any surplus to go to the race fund. Once
round the course, about VA mile.
Fifth Race—MAYOS’B GIFT f2O sovs, with 20
sovs added from the club ; welter handicap, to be
ridden by amateur members of any recognised
racing club. The winner of Jockey Club handicap
to carry a penalty of 51b. 1A mile.
Sixth Race.-FINAL FLUTTER of 10 sovs, for
all hacks. Winner to be sold Immediately after
the race for 5 sovs, any surplus to go to the race
fund. Once round the course.
Seventh Race.—DISTRICT CUP, presented by
G. Brown, Esq., with 10 sovs added from the club,
and a sweep of 10s. each added, for all horses the
bond fide property of pesons residing within the
police districts of Camden and Campbelltown.
Ince round the course. Weight for age.
A.J.C. Rules strictly adhered to.
Nominations, with 1 sov enclosed as part of en-
trance fee, for Maiden Plate and Handicaps, must
be in the hands of the secretary not later than 8
p.m. on December 1.
Weights on December 6 ; balance of entrance
money on night of general entry; night of general
entry, December 10 ; sweeps at the scales.
Entrance, 5 per cent, on amount of prize.
A. B. CHIPPINDALL, Hon. Sec.
AGING SEASON, 1883.
E. E. JONES,
INTERNATIONAL HOTEL, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE CUP, 1883.
No, 1 CONSULTATION.
ENCOURAGED by past successes, I beg to
announce that I intend having a
SERIES OF CONSULTATIONS
of the above, on the usual distribution.
No. 1 is now open, and will close at the earliest
possible date.
I must request Immediate application, so that
fortunate holders may have a good opportunity
of hedging.
Address—
“JANITOR.”
Care of E. B Jones,
International Hotel, Sydney.
N.B. —For the convenience of Town Clients, a
Letter Box will be found in the bar.
n
umm
JAMES YOUNG, Sole Agent,
No. 9 CHANGE ALLEV.
D
i-
THOMAS MUNRO,
J3T- HERALDIC ARTIST AND ENGRAVER,
PLAIN AND FANCY STATIONER,
10 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
A Large and varied assortment of Letter Books,
Account Books, and all office requisites. Purses,
Albums, Plush Bags, and Reticules; Artists’ Mate-
rials, Photo, and Picture Frames, Illuminated
Scripture and other texts. Birthday, Condolence,
and Memorial Cards. , . „ __ _
Agent for August Huenerbein for Pianos, Or-
gans, and Music. The Engraving workshop being
under my own management, I feel confident in
suiting the public taste.
f
r.
J^/J' ADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns
of
Dresses, Mantles, &c.,
and
Weigel’s Journal of
Fashions,
tich contains the latest styles, are sold by the
lowing agents: —
iorge Slater, Stationer, 39 Oxford-st., Sydney
■s. Beales, Fancy Repository, Regent-st., Redferr
s T H. Griffiths, Milliner, 335 Kmg-st., Newtowr
s! C. Chapman, Fancy Repository, Church-st
south, Parramatta
Principal Retail Office :
1 KING-STREET (near Elizabeth-st.), Sydney.
Watson and crane
SILVER, NICKEL, A GOLD PLATERS.
BRASS FOUNDERS AND MANUFACTURERS
Old Electroplated Ware, Cruets, Spoons, am
Forks, Tea Services. Ac., re-silver plated equal U
new, at Moderate Charges. , „ .
NICKEL PLATING on Brass, Iron, and Meta
Furnltu ro and Fittings of all kinds in Best Style a
Lowest Prices.
JEWELLERY, Ac., WELL GILT.
STEAM, BRASS, & ELECTROPLATING WORKS
386 PITT STREET.
r-a p
Foster s Bugle Brand.
The BEST ALB and STOUT in the Market.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE I
MERCHANTS.
AGENTS.
Robert butcher & co.,
(Late William Long),
OST WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
584 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Order* receive prompt attention.
X
10 CONNOIBEURB of WHISKEY & BRANDY.
W. & A. GUbey’s CASTLE BRAND WHIS-
Y and L’OR EXTRAIT BR
BRANDY are the
oldest and purest spirits Imported.
TUCKER & CO., Agents,
377 George-street.
EVERT DESCRIPTION OP PISHING TACKLE,
Wholesale and Retail.
[ASTWAY BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE STREET.
A. GORMAN.
Late of the Telegraph Hotel, Inverell,
HAS OPENED THE
4 Clarem-d-om.,’
Corner of ELIZABETH & PARK Streets.
And which he Intends to keep as a first- iass Hotel.
A G. hopes, by strict attention to Business, to
gain a share of their PATRONAGE. V IBITORB
£ST find this surpasses most of the leading
,8 for ACCOMODATION and every CON :
HOTELS IUI »UU VIV/
VENIENCB ; and, as It overlooks HYDE PARK, It
must necessarily be WELL VENTILATED.
SUITES of ROOMS for FAMILIES,
as per agreement.
HOT and COLD WATER BATHS.
PORTER in Attendance Day and Night.
It Is not necessary to mention the quality ol tn«
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, Ac. &c„ as he Is, and al-
ways has been, noted throughout the COLON
for selling nothing but the verr beat
w
ILCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10
MA NGLBB
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS.
Corn shellert
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
HEBBLEWHITE
416 GEORGE STREET.
C o.?
DINNER,
ONE SHILLING. Af
&
a
c
a
si
PITT STREET,
NEXT TATTERS ALL’S. w
All Weals one
J. C. GREENFIELD, PaoP»i*TO __


BEAD IT ALL.
It may Save your Life.
hop bitters
ARE
The Purest and Best
Medicine erer made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buchit, Mandrake, and Dandelion.
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and in addition contain all the best
‘and most effective curative properties
‘ of all other bitters, being the greatest
‘ Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
‘ and life and health restoring agent on
* earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Aged
and Intlrm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
‘ Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
‘irregularities of the Blood, Stomach
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
4 Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are invaluable, being
‘ highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
* without intoxicating.”
“No matter what your feelings or
‘ symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
‘ wait until you are sick, but if you only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun-
‘ dreds have been saved by so doing, at
‘ a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
‘ friends suffer, but use and urge them to
‘ use Hop Bitters.”
“ Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
‘drugged, drunken nostrum, but the
‘purest and best Medicine ever made,
‘and no person or family should be
‘ without it.”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO.,
Melbourne, Australia, Rochester, N. Y.,U. S
A., Toronto, London, Antwerp, Paris.
GRAHAM,
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring' Establishment,
643, late 581, George-street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,—I respectfully beg leave to bring
under your notice the superior style and lit of our
Trousers, which are out on the same unerring
principles as those which have made the name of
Hill, Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion in the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either in sitting, riding
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor braces
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain their
position in every attitude of the body.
They are designed to fit the corpulent as well
the slight figure, and are engaged to give to all the
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial will suffice to establish their claim
on your patrv'iage.
I am, Sir,
Tourobedient Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURB FOR INDIGESTION
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER WEAK-
NESS. ftt.
PRICE.. .. „ „ 8s. 6d.
Prepared by A. O. KBBBLEWHITE, Chkhist. Jko.
43 BR8KINE STREET, ’
Sold by W, H. SOUL) and ail Chcmlata,
Marwood and his Mob.
Hundreds of applications have been received for
the office rendered vacant by the death of Mr.
Marwood. This shows how strong in man Is the
desire to kill—legally, if possible. The law, like
all other professions, has a headland a tail. The
Lord Chancellor heads It and Jack Ketch brings
up the rear. They do things better in America.
There the rope is adjusted over the criminal’s
neck by one of the officials, while another (out of
sight) touches a spring and the culprit stands with
an “adsum” in the presence of—who shall say?
This is in the settled States. Out Kansas way
the method is even simpler. There the rope
Is thrown over the limb of a tree, and
the whole crowd haul until the criminal kicks him-
self into eternity. Either way is superior to the
English, where the hangman travels about from
place to place on his horrid errands—and after-
wards details, with ghoul-like humour, the mur-
derer’s terrible agony as the time approaches for
him to face the Unknown. But the whole ques-
tion, not of who is to perform the last office, but
of the necessity for that office being performed at
all, has yet to be fought out. If it were possible to
find two nations with equal population and similar
social and political surroundings, it is very proba-
ble that the number of murders during a decade in
the one where capital punishment was not enforced
would not exceed those In the other where It was.
When a man is bent on committing murder, he
docs not pause to consider whether the penalty
for the crime is life-long Imprisonment, hanging,
breaking on the wheel, or any of the barbarous
methods followed in Europe before the French
Revolution cleared the atmosphere. It is probable
that more petty larcenies, in proportion to popula-
tion, were committed in England when th® gallows
was the penalty, than now, when they are met
with a few weeks’ durance. Buckle shows, on
evidence there is no gainsaying, that, in given
periods, sufficiently long to allow contending
influences to correct each other, about the
same number of murders will be committed
with astonishing regularity—and this whether
two men or a hundred are executed. He found
the same law governing men’s actions, not In
crime alone from homicide and forgery down to
petty assaults, but in cases apparently outside the
pale of all laws. He found that the same unvary-
ing regularity extended to the posting of un-
directed letters. From year to year It was
discovered that, in proportion to the number of
letters posted in the offices of the United King-
dom, the same percentage of “undirected” epistles
found their way to the dead-letter office. Our
judges and legislators, born and bred in a com-
munity where the gallows and the triangles are
considered so essential in the repression of crime,
have not risen to a conception of this great law of
averages. Staid legal fossils and prosperous
churchmen have always been the staunchest
opponents of change in legal penalties in
the direction of humanity. They were the
fiercest antagonists against whom Romxlly and
Brougham had to contend. In their eyes the
abolition of the death penalty and the whip-
ping post for numberless offences marked the
beginning of the downward path in England's
greatness. But England prospered in spite of
their dreary vaticinations, just as Franco prospered
in the face of the fierce diatribes of the mentally-
alliicted Burke. Does anyone Imagine that the
annual crop of murders in Queensland will be
diminished by the strangling of the three men
there, the other day ? We may not live to see it,
but the time is ut hand when the efficacy of the
r °pe and the cat-’o-nine-tails in repressing crime
will be considered in a broader and more philo-
sophical spirit than our present public men can
rise to. Then, and not till then, will the Mar-
Woods and Upjohns of the time disappear like
other unclean things, and the memory of them
and the state of society which tolerated them be
recalled by our children’s children with curiosity
and shame.
The following sentences from Db Cormenin’s
memoir of Benjamin Constant have an apropos
bearing on the present state of atf airs:—Conserva-
“ve tribunals have in all times been jealous of the
“ress. They have always sought to humble it by
Pot-house abuse, and to stifle its voice beneath
Iniquitous proceedings and outrageous penalties.
The most ignorant lawyer that chance ever pitch-
forked on to the Bench has the pitiful presumption
to think himself far above a Journalist. . . .
Oh every occasion and at every moment, Constant
called with energy for the abolition of all excep- .
•Loncu jurisdiction, the trial by jury in offences
gainst the tribunals, and the liberty of publication,
o-day he would have the same guarantees to ask ,
or, since the Press still writhes and struggles in ■
be same shackles as under the ‘ Restoration.” Its 1
only alternative is to lie or to be silent. It must \
cither abstain from discussion, or receive the kicks
and spittings of fatuous ermine-wearers and gouty <
senators. And, as a worse insult, a last torment, j
the vile tools who maintain this status quo are <
beard to bawl themselves hoarse in crying, “ The ,
* Was is sufficiently free II” ,
Tfie English, it seems, have some things in
common with Australia. For example, at the
Thames police court, Margaret Kane, 30, was
charged with being drunk and disorderly. Mr.
Saunders (to prisoner): “You are charged with
being drunk,” Prisoner: “Of course I was drunk.
I am always drunk, and mean to get drunk as long
as I live.” The constable: “She is newly out of
prison. She has been here dozens of times.”
Prisoner: “I know I have, and I shall be here a
lot more times.” Mr. Saunders: “Well, you will
go to prison this time for seven days.” Prisoner:
“ What! only' seven days! I made sure you would
have made it a month. Good luck to yer.”
The late Professor Denton was an enthu-
siastic geologist, and thought nothing ot roughing
it in the pursuit of his favourite science. While
in New Zealand, he paid a visit to the Mackenzie
country to study the vestiges of ancient glacier
action, and the stupendous effects ot the great ice-
plough, now reduced to comparative insignifi-
cance, impressed him profoundly. They were, he
said, a revelation to him. He made all his journeys
on foot, by choice, and the old man's energy and
indifference to fatigue and exposure were simply
wonderful. On one occasion he set off on foot
from Mr. Burnett’s station to reach the Tasman
glacier a distance of fifteen miles—with his
pockets filled with green gooseberries by way of
refreshment for the day, no cooaed food being
available at the early hour when he started.
The Queen was christened by the compound
name of Alexandrina-Victoria, which is in faot
Her Majesty’s personal name. But when she came
to the throne, she dropped the first of these two
names (which had been given to her by her god-
father, the Emperor of Russia, as a feminisation
of his own), and elected to assume, as Queen of
England, the second name only of Victoria. At
present the Prince of Wales bears and signs the
compound name of Albert-Ed ward. It is probable
that when the time comes for him to ascend the
throne, he will, abiding by the jtraditions of the
House of Honover, take the chief place among the
English people under a purely English name—that
of “ Edward VII.” And so with the eldest son of
the Prince of Wales, Prince Albert Victor-Chris-
tlan-Edward, who has always been known in his
own family, not under any of his other names, but
as Edward, or, in the circles of Marlborough
House, as “ Eddie.”
One potent cause of the pilgrimages to
Loretto may be found in the fact that the women
of that place are remarkably pretty, and have a
very picturesque costume, consisting of sixteen
§etticoats on weekdays and of eighteen on Sun-
ays and holidays. These petticoats are all
starched, and some are very richly trimmed with
lace and embroidery. A coloured skirt is then
looped up over these balloon skirts, and a stay-
bodice confines the waist to its smallest dimensions,
over a spotless white chemisette. A handkerchief
is next pinned over the bead to complete the cos-
tume. As for the jewellery worn, it is silver and
precious stones. The choir of the Loretto Church
is one of the best in Italy. The once celebrated
tenor Capponl is director, and often sings. The
country people do not dare walk round or in the
holy house; they proceed by kneeling, and the
steps round the house are furrowed in two long
lines by the continual movement of the knees 1 I !
Gradus ad Parnassum—Adscriptus jrlebaa,
“the only Chapman;” equam servare mentem,
“ he meant to keep the mare ” (the horse-stealer’s
motto); alere flammam, “all flam;” amicus cur-
iae, “the butcher:” a posteriori, “rump steak;”
apparatus belli, “a bishop’s apron;” funktus
officio, “afraid of the police;” homo multarum
literarum, “Lambton;” miserabile vulgus, “the
peerless ‘nineteen;’” neo pluribus irapar, “all
their daddies” (W. B. Dailey); nihil ad rem,
“ Stephen’s speech on the Contempts of Court
Bill; omne ignotum pro magnifico, “any idiot
will do for an M.L.C.;” pleno jure, “too much
iaw;” vincit qui patitur, “he’ll win who leads
Irish troops ” (aide Wolseley’s latest speech).
The people who are anxious to take up
Marwood’s work excel in reasons why. There is
the man who is a Churchman, and has a large
family; the man who plays the organ in a Non-
conformist chapel - the man who makes pianos;
the man who once unsuccessfully executed a dead
cat: the man who, while willing to undertake the
work at a reduced price, guarantees that he will
give satisfaction to all concerned; the man who is
anxious to refine the process of suspension; the
man who, being a local preacher, is able.to combine
earthly extinction with heavenly consolation; the
man who, being already a postman, is naturally a
man for the post. The variety and ingenuity
of these reasons wi 1 intensify the difficulty of the
of the task which falls to the lot of the
unhappy High Sheriff, whose painful privilege
it will be to select the slayer of the next
condemned murderer. When the Tudors ruled
the roast, the life of the common hangman could
not have been a happy one, as it was usual for
whoever was entrusted to pay him his “fair day’s
wage fora lair day’s work,” to spit in his lace.
Now, when the sheriff has to give him his fee, it is
alwavs placed at the foot of the gibbet, or some- i
where where it can be easily seen, picked up, and \
pocketed. 1 he hangman is in short looked upon,
and rightly so, as a loathsome monster whose
touch defiles.
The Rev. Mr. Ullmatm recently quitted
the Anglican Church to enter upon the Gospel (
Army Home Mission—an org mization of his own ]
creation. Mr. Ullmann, who, by the way, is an 1
English university graduate, Is now begging 1
around for funds to cover the expenses of a trip
which ho thinks he“and his wife ought to make to
England “for the good of tbe cause.” Last Sunday,
at Parramatta, at one of their meetings, Mrs. U.
stated that she and her dear husband wanted rest,
although he would not admit it. They had there-
fore determined to visit England, and it was pro-
posed to hold a tea-meeting to raise funds to cover
the expenses of tbe trip. She would like to meet
a few ladies of the town on the Btn proximo in
order to arrange for the providing ot the tea. Mr.
Ullmann also referred to the proposed visit of Mrs.
Ullmann and himself to England, stating that he
felt better in health than ever he did, but there
were other and more important considerations
which urged nim to contemplate the trip. He was
more than ever convinced that London must be
the head-quarters of all missionary work—the
pulse, the heart as it were, of living action. He
further wished to enlist the sympathies of efficient
workers, for although there were probably many
persons in this colony competent to assist he had
as yet failed to And them. He also desired to get
an Insight into the working ot the prison and mid-
night missions. And so on, and so on. Well, now,
wo don’t ordinarily believe in people who talk in
this fashion. They are usually rank humbugs.
But we don’t think Mr. Ullmann is altogether a
humbug. Tne truest test of a man’s belief in a
creed is the extent to which be is prepared to
sacrifice this world’s goods on its behalf. We re-
member reading in some clerical paper or other
that Mr. Ullmann voluntarily relinquished a snug
suburban llvi g and £4OO a year or so to com-
mence the " Gospel Army Mission ” and work
with his wife, not among the South Sea niggers, or
at Government House bazaars, but in the purlieus
of Sussex-street and in the lanes of Woolloomoo-
loo. In leaving the Anglican Ministry for a iess
conventional sphere, he has sacrificed a lot of
things—including what the world calls “respecta-
bility,” and money. He has, we are told, always
been a charitable and hard-working man, and his
wife has been very kind to many poor people.
Therefore, as Mr. and Mrs. Ullmann aren t “going
for the plunder,” we hope the rich will give them
a good send-off In these days of fat ecclesiastics
and “ dear Mary-Janeism,” it is to us absolutely
touching—even pitiable—to find a clergyman who
is a University graduate and a gentleman, so
simple that he abandons “ position,” and in a short
while has to beg for a little money to keep things
going. Remember, we don’t vouch for the sin-
cerity of Mr. Ullmann or any other man. But we
say that the evidence so far is in favour of the
supposition that, even if a little “cranky” in his
views, he is thoroughly honest. Mr. Ullmann, who
abandons “ respectability,” and resorts poor,
simple man, how unworldly he must be, in these
days of kite flying and syndicates!—to such means
as a tea-party to *• raise the wind,” is a good deal
more like real grit than the bishop who saves
up plenty of money and leaves it all “to my
dearly beloved wife, Mary Jane.”
IT CONQUERS PAIN.-HE ADVISES HIS
PERSONAL FRIENDS.
“ Glen View, Darlinghurst,
“ August 17,1883.
“ Messrs. Publishers Bulletin, Sydney.
“Dear Sirs,—It gives me great pleasure to say, In
th® most unqualified manner, that I have found
St. Jacobs Oil the best preparation for Rhematism,
Gout, and other pains, that I have ever used or
known. A member of my family was suffering
from a severe attack of rheumatic gout both in the
hands and feet. The pain was most excruciating.
I suggested her using St. Jacobs Oil, and am pleased
to say the result was of a most satisfactory charac-
ter. After one or two applications the pain en-
tirely left, and up to the present have had no
return of the trouble. I look on St. Jacobs Oil
as a universal panacea for all kinds of aches and
pains. I have advised many of my personal friends
to give it a trial, and have heard from them that
nothing they had ever used did them so much good.
It is, without doubt,the only Household Remedy
of modern times, and I shall always keep a bottle
within reach.
“I remain, dear Sirs, yours faithfully,
„ _ “ J. R. Dkewett,”
NOTE.—Mr. Drewett is the well-known town
buyer for Messrs. S. Hoffnung and Company, Pltt-
street, one of the largest and prominent tlrms in
all Australia.
HOW A USELESS ARM WAS RESTORED IN
TEN MINUTES, or the experience of Edward L
Green, Esq., Government Sheriff at Auckland,
N.Z.
“Auckland, New Zealand, August 16,1883
Messrs. Publishers Bulletin, Sydney.
“Dear Sirs,-I have great pleasure in stating I
had occasion to use St. Jacobs Oil for an old injury
I received to my shoulder in June. 1882, and from
that date until July 10th last, I could not use my
arm, and found great difficulty in writing. [ ap-
plied to medical men and used all sorts of liniments
but without any benefit; but I had not used St’
Jacobs Oil more than ten minutes before I felt the
beneficial effect, and I can work with my saw or
spade as well as ever I did, and can strongly recom-
mend this oil to any one suffering from muscular
ailments. You can make what use you niease of
this letter for the benefit of others.
‘ I remain, dear Sirs, yours, &c.,
“ Edward L. Green, Sheriff.”
St. Jacobs Oil. the great German remedy, con-
quers pain. Sold by Druggists, Chemists, and
Medicine Dealers throughout the world. Price in
New South Wales, half-a-crown a bottle. Direc-
tions for using in 11 languages.
ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney.
Wholesale Depot for N.S.W,
Cable Message : “ The British forces will be
instructed to look after General MTver
if he proceeds with his New Guinea
scheme.”
Sundowner : “ This is the first time I ever saw a crop of clothes; I’ll just pluck a suit.”


RUMFO??
pm
P spared according 1 to the directions Oi Prof.
E. N. Horsford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PABTIOUIiABIiT RECOMMENDED FOB
•T SPBPBIA, HEADACHE. INDIGESTION,
-•j i- NTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
-IMPAIRED VITALITY, NBBVOUS DISEASES
II fSTERIA, WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS,
V\ BAKENED ENERGY, &o.
No Danger can Attend its Use.
Nervous Depression from Overwork.
Sluggish Circulation and Growing Chil-
dren.
Sandusky, 0., May 21,1880,
I have used your Acid Phosphate and can pro-
nounce It a very valuable addition. I And It use-
ful and beneficial In nervous dyspepsia, nervous
depression following overwork and anxiety, as well
as the gastric derangements. Where there Is
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation, a dull,
heavy head, It is of undoubted value. Fast grow-
ing children require this valuable addition.
W. B. PAGE, M.D.
Liver and Kidney Derangements.
Boston, Mass., May 18,1680.
In regard to the Hereford’s Acid Phosphate, I
have used it very extensively, and with the most
remarkable success.
I give it in dyspepsia and In all oases where there
is derangement of the liver and kidneys. With
my patients it has agreed wonderfully.
O. G. CILLBY, M.D.
Nerve Tonic.
„ A. S. Carpenter, M.D., Keene, N.H., says :
Hereford's Acid Phosphate is a valuable medi-
cine. I have taken it myself, and for several
years prescribed it for my patients, when suffering
from Indigestion or Innervation of the digestive
organs, and always with satisfactory results. It is
a good nerve tonic, and in some oases of morbid
urine, ‘ it acts like a charm,’ producing the desired
result. It is pleasant to the taste, acceptable to the
stomach, and is, in my opinion, an excellent and
valuable oompouad.”
|Can be borne by the most Sensitive
Stomachs.
Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 1880.
Hprsford’s Acid Phosphate, in elegance of com-
position, stands unrivalled. It is pleasant to the
taste, and can be borne by the most sensitive
stomach. Have prescribed it with marked benefit
in Indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms an
excellent substitute for lemon Juice, and as such
will furnish a refreshing drink for the sick.
A. L. HALL, M.D.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
3fv£a,gric OH,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
er Externally.
“ It Works like a Charm.”
It is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy It gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches fire. It cures
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Bruises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Bunts, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neok or Baok.
As an Internal remedy It tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colie,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Threat, and Dyp-
therla.
A bottle of RENNB’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand for Immediate use in
ease of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers Ib
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best Imported Inte this country, and have
gained throughou Ithe ©clonie* suck a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. 1
leather, and the upholstery is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their tmlsh
BECAUSE they are each and all built under special
instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage builders in America,
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say itrsr abb tbs
hr,
American Carriage Emporium,
WTNTAU) SQUARE, 8 TENET.
BARTON .MOXHAM & CO„
base Agents
The Reverend Peter Campbell—we care-
fully preserve the last letter he wrote us—having
been properly “guyvered” during his brief “ mis-
sion” tour through the Barcoo country, held a
farewell service In the open air, at which he prayed
most earnestly for the conversion of The Buele
tin staff. He then sold his horses, which had be-
come fat on Mitchell grass, auctioned his remain-
ing allotments in Blackall, without reserve, and
coached It to Rockampton. There h* has been
holding forth under the patronage of the press
(whom he converted by a few two-inch advertise-
ments). He appeals for “liberal aid ” towards his
mission, the drought having played old Harry
with his horses. If he gets no more than he raked
in on the Barcoo, he will have to abandon the mis-
sion, and go in for a mangle.
William Macleay intends to establish a
series of busaries (commencing with two next
March) to enable poor boys resident in the coun-
try, of some promise, to complete their education
by a three years course of study at the Sydney
University. He has determined to limit the
bursaries to be given under this scheme to candi-
dates for a science degree alone. His reason for
this is because the amount and variety of know-
ledge Included in the science degree curriculum is
far in excess of that considered necessary for the
arts’ student; and the fact that this is so, which
will soon he felt and known, will make the B.Sc.
degree the most valuable, therefore, to its posses-
sor. The amount of each bursary will be 30s. per
week during the time that his studies compel the
bursar’s attendance in Sydney—say forty weeks in
each year, £6O; and that amount will be paid in
regular instalments as soon as the candidate shall
have passed the matriculation examination. This
is a very healthy as well as a very liberal notion of
Macleay’s. Solomon says that the liberal soul
shall be made fat. Fat, W.M. is; all we can do,
therefore, is to wish him fatter (in the Solomonic
sense).
“We are the people.” So say the repre-
sentatives of some thousands of selectors as-
sembled now at the Town Hall. Any student of
politics who would like to know what government
carried on by a faction would be, cannot do better
than listen to their discussions. Speaking on be-
half of a mere fraction of the population, and
certainly not Indentlfled with any industry in par-
ticular—for the logic of statistics prov sour much
vaunted “agriculture” to be a mere sham—these
delegates are daily dealing with the soil as if no-
body but themselves had any concern with it. The
thing most resembling display is what may be met
with daily at certain clubs and hotels, where the
representatives of grasst ss runs and Melbourne
finance sneer down all but pastoral interests, and
laugh at the idea that anything but squatting
exists, oris worthy of consideration. Before the
debate on the Bill is over, we fully expect that the
real merits of the question will come to the sur-
face, and then it will be seen that the 800,000 people
of the N.S.W. have a vital interest in the matter,
more potent than that of either clique.
Sir Provo William Parry Wallis, G.C.8.,
Admiral of the Fleet, is breaking up and down.
He is 93 years old, and was made a pos -captain in
1819. He is the solitary survivor of the fight-
referred to in a beautiful poem of Longfellow’s—
between the British ship Shannon and the Ameri-
can ship Chesapeake, off Boston Harbour, on June
1, 1813. All Boston turned out to see it. having
made extraordinary preparations to receive their
victorious countrymen when they sailed back with
the Shannon in tow. But, although the Yankees
fought splendidly, the stars and stripes had to
come down, and the Boston rejoicings were
changed to lamentations. The ships looked, and
the gallant British Captain (Broke), calling on his
men to follow him, jumped aboard the American.
In a few minutes, nearly four hundred men—two
hundred of each—were lying dead and dying on
the deck. It was considered the most gallantly-
fought action in naval history. But the Yankees
had their revenge, for, before the war ended in
1814, they had waltzed several rings round Monsieur
Bull, and taught him that his claim to the empire
of the sea was not to go undisputed.
Henry Zouoh, who died on Sunday week,
was an old Identity with a clean record. He was
born in Quebec in 1813, and educated at the Royal
Military College, Sandhurst. Ho served In the 4th
Foot, the “ King’s Own” (now the Ist Battalion of
Royal Lancaster), for several years, both in Eng
land and in New South Wales. When in command
of the military police at Bathurst, he was
despached to the Bogan (in 1835) to find the remains
of Richard Cunningham, the botanist, w io had
wandered away from Mitchell’s exploration party,
and got killed by the blacks. In this search he was
successful. When the 4th left here for India, Cap-
tain Zouoh went In for squatting. When gold was
found in 1851, he was appointed commissioner on
the Turon. From 1853 to 1863 he was superinten-
dent of Mounted Patrol for Main Roads. From
1863 to the time of his death he was superintendent
of Police in charge of the Qoulburn district. When
M’Lerle died, he would probably have been
appointed Inspector-General had he oared to press
his claims, but the truth was he did not wish to
leave his comfortable homo near Qoulburn. He
was a “straight,” soldier-like, kind-hearted man,
an A 1 Judge of a horse, a loyal friend, a hospitable
host; a chief for whom every sub. had a real devo-
tion, He married early in life a Miss Brooks, by
whom he had a large family of sons and daughters.
Sir Harry Parkes, on leaving Japan for
China (to the court of which he was recently ap-
pointed ambassador), was presented by the Mikado
with a censer and flower as tokens of that
Sovereign s n-gard. This mission of Sir Harry’s to
Pekin is a strange instance of the truth of
Malvollo’s remark, “Thus the whirligig of time
brings In his revenges.’’ A little over twenty
years ago, during the war which arose out of the
“ Arrow” affair, Sir Harry was a prisoner in the
hands of the Chinese, taken while on a peaceful
errand under a flag of truce. While in litoral
bonds, ho refused, even for the sake of his own
life, to make any bargain with the Chinese or to
promise his influence to get them any etter terms.
From the time of the capture the Chinese knew
his value as the chief Interpreter with the Foreign
Armies. Ry turns he was cajoled and threatened,
and his hopes and fears were alternately worked
upon to induce him to write and ask the Comman-
der-In-Chief to suspend operations. Twice he was
led out as if to immediate execution; his companion
Loch was taken away, as ho understood, for de-
capitation, and did not return, and doubtless it
was often a toss-up whether his head should not
be struck off. Owing to Prince Kung’s friendly
intervention, his life was spared and the rigour of
his imprisonment mitigated. And nowin 1883 he
goes to Pekin as British Plenipotentiary. Kung
and he will doubtless crack a bottle or so over a
yarn about old times.
“ A very painful offence against good
taste,” Vanity Fair says, “was committed at a
recent sale. A Captain liartopp had seen as much
of life as he cared for. He was not enamoured of
it, and desired a change Death knocked at the
front door, and the Captain, nothing loath, left
with him to try his fortunes in that strange land
whence no traveller &c. &c. So the officer was
brought ’home,' and his effects were brought to
the hammer. The dead man’s shu ts, hunting
breeches, &c., wore not only * pawed ’ by the un-
washed, but tried on, and their tightness or
baggishness commented on In an atmosphere
heavy with profanity and indescribable odours.”
And this paragraph of Vanity Fair’s suggests to
us a lot of things. Talk of the indurating tendency
of an undertaker’s profession I What is it to that
of an auctioneer’s? Old family heirlooms that
have witnessed the loves and hates, the strut-
tings, posturings and professions of men and
women who, generations ago, fattened the worms
in some half-forgotten churchyard; old-fashioned
lockets, enclosing faded hair cut from young
heads whose owners were never destined to live
beyond the babblings of babyhood; furniture,
miniatures, nlc-nacs of little intrinsic value, but
each enshrining Its story so full of Joy or sorrow,
are tossed about, examined, appraised by the un-
sympathetic “knight of the Rammer” and his
myrmidons, passed laughingly to the Israelite
dealers in second-hand wares, and, lor a trifle,
Surcbased to fill niches In some “ Old Curiosity
hop.”
“ They prefer,” (said Pat) “ the Devil to me,”—
The reason why’s not hard to see—
The Devil’s a wheedling courtly priest.
But Pat’s, a treacherous, foul-mouthed beast.
N.Z. tourists, with keen recollections of
the discomforts of the coach-journey between
Tauranga and Ohlnemutu (Rotorua), will be glad
to hear that a company has been formed to con-
struct a railway to the lakes. Operations are to be
immediately commenced, instructions tor plant
having been cabled to England.
Should the Griffith party in Queensland
be able to carry out their land policy, the chief
point of which is dividing all stations, giving half
to the present lessee at increased rental, and for a
long period, and opening the remainder to the
Eubllc in small blocks on similar terms, there will
e a great rush to the Western country—a terri-
tory which is one vast series of plains capable of
holding all Victoria, Riverina and the Darling
Downs, and then having plenty of room to spare.
After the declaration of the result of the
poll for the Kennedy (Q.), there was an adjourn-
ment to Downey’s for a liquor-up, on the invita-
tion of Llssner, one of the two successful candi-
dates (the other, Rutledge, not being present).
Amongst the crowd were the three unsuccessful
candidates—the O’Stubley, the O’Buckland, and
the O’Kane. During the election trouble, the
O’Stubley had sworn by his beard that, if returned
along with the O’Kane, he would res’gn rather
than sit in the same house with him. Sitting in the
same public-house with O’Kane didn’t fret O’Stub-
ley much. Quite the reverse, Indeed ; for, ex-
tending his hand across the hospitable board to
the O’Kane, he said: “ Now, old man, it’s all over,
let us shake hands.” To him the O’Kane: “ I will
shake hands with you if you take back what you
said on the public platform—that you would resign
if I were returned with you, and that you would
not sit in the same House with me. Says the
O’Stubley : “I’ll take back nothing.” “Then,”
replies O’Kane, “I refuse to take your hand."
This little interlude didn’t prevent the O’Buckland
proposing the O’Lissner's health, and the O’Lissner
proposing the “ defeated candidates.” Thereupon
the O'Stubley congratulated the electors upon the
defeat of the O'Kane, who had always stirred up
animosity, and set man against master, and hus-
band against wife [All this to a chorus of “Oh 1
drop it,” “ Shut up, “ Take a back seat,” &c.] The
O’Kane in his speech treated the O’Stubley’s re-
marks with silent contempt: he said he thought
he had made a good fight, and believed it was yet
possible to find a Kennedy man who could beat
Rutledge. The O’Buckland also spoke to the
toast, taking the opportunity to revile the
Northern Miner, whose report of the proceed-
ings winds up with “after a little desultory—
(query, d— sultry)—conversation, the party broke
up.”
Allan Macdonald, M.H.R. for the East
Coast of the North Island of New Zealand, well
deserves a little par. all to himself. Twenty years
ago, Allan and his partner. Grant, owned a large
station in Otago, and were In a fair way to make
their pile, when wool suddenly went down to zero,
and one of the New Zealand banks froze them out
of their property. In those days, Allan used to re-
mark 1 hat the more sheep a squatter had, the worse
his credit got. Some time afterwards, Allan's
Eartner, Grant, got a friend to back him up In re-
uying the station from the bank, and, after carry-
ing on the mutton and wool-growing business for
about five years, Grant sold out and cleared £20,000
by the transaction. In the meantime, Allan and
Mr. Perolval Barker, Lite of the Criterion Hotel,
Dunedin, speculated In station property on the
East Coast of the N. Island, not long after Te Kooti
and his band of fanatical fiends had laid that lovely
and fertile region waste xvith fire and sword. The
settlers who remained uneaten and with throats
uncut on the return of peace were only too glad
to sell out any land and stock that xvere left to
them at any price they could get, and thus Allan
and his friend got possession of some valuable
blocks of country on very easy terms. Allan has
since been twice returned member for the East
Coast, where he is a great favourite, especially
with the Maoris, to whom he talks much Gaelic—
a language which is nearly akin to their own, and
which they understand quite as well xx o do Greek.
One day lately the newly-appointed secretary to
the local Hospital stuck up old Percy Barker
and appealed to his pocket on behalf of the
benevolent Institution in question. B irker’s bark
is worse than his bite, and after firliga double-
barrelled charge of profanity at the head of the
astonished functionary he caught si_ lit of Allan
Macdonald, on the opposite side of the street, and
said, “ There, noxv, look at that ugly, long-legged
ne’er do weel member of Parliament over there. Go
and ask him what he'll give—and blank my eyes, as
sure as my name’s Barker, 111 give txx ice as much.
See It I don’t.” Hastily crossing the street, the
official told Mao. his trouble, repeating the com-
plimentary terms used by his old partner across
the way. Now, Allan is really a handsome, stalwart
fellow, and may well be proud of ms personal
appearance, and when he hoard himself described
as an “ugly, long-legged, ne’er-do-xvell,” it put
him fainy on his mettle. However, he Justsnut
his moutn hard to bottle down the Gaelic pro-
fanity that struggled to escape, and taking the
secretary into the nearest store, wrote out a cheque
for one hundred pounds, with which i he delighted
official sought out Mr. Barker, xvho was as
good as his word, and forked out a cheque for
£3OO. Neither old Barker nor his lato “pardner,”
Allan, who are on excellent terms with each other,
are worth a farthing candle at making long
prayers, but at giving a helping hand to an old
friend, they can be backed against any two men
on this side of the South Pole.
TUe crown of King George “ the man ”
wasn’t affected even a little bit by the
Jacobite rising.
John Brown la dead, and his nephew,
Clark, succeeds to some of his duties. John’s
sister married one Clark, and the present confiden-
tial flunkey Is the result. The whole entourage of
servants at Balmoral who do not happen to be
Browns are Clarks, and there is a firm offensive
and defensive ring-fence of relationship. The
footing obtained by a long course of personal
fealty was too good to be thrown away, and so
“ Brown est mort , vine Clark I” has gone forth. In
the eyes of the other Royal servitors the “ Browu-
cum-Clark ” faction must be an especial eye-sore.
And this reminds us that there was a large family
of Browns, all of whom found vacancies In the
Royal service, except one who made his way to
New Zealand and squatted on a small farm on the
west coast of the Middle Island. On John’s deat>
this rolling stone was Induced to pack his trar-
and bend his steps homewards. On arrival a
Scotland, the post of “Grieve” on the Balmoi -i
Home Farm was placed at his disposal. B
he “grieved” so for his lost independence tha
after a short service, his language was unfi
for the Seven Dials. Then ho again took to th
“ wallaby,” swearing that the atmosphere of sneak
log and nunkeyism that hung round the Deeside
nearly choked him. He could not breathe It after
the rough freedom of New Zealand. Now he is
back again In the “ Britain of the South,” and
stoutly—lndeed, profanely—declares that no pro-
mise of Royal or Imperial favours would again
tempt him to mount a gold-laoed hat, or wriggle
Into a swallow-tailed coat with a wealth of brass
buttons fore and aft. But he is not the only
Brown who has been spoilt by the free air of these
Southern lands. We leave our readers to say
which is more to be admired—thosturdy Soot who,
having once tasted the sweets of independence,
threw to—the winds, say—all considerations of
“favours to come” from any hands (Royal or
otherwise), preferring the bracing winds of Demo-
cracy to the carefully-tempered atmosphere of
courts; or the person who, born with the spirit of
a valet, comes to these shor< s, thrives as he never
would “at home,” allows Iws flunkeylsm to grow
with his wealth, and returns to the land he left as
a pauper to Intrigue for e npty honours aud revile
the country and laws which threw open for him
the road to fortune ?
The Lily of the valley—Mrs. Langtry.
The valet of the Lily—Mr. Frederick Qebhardt
Since the announcem nt of the marriage of Miss
Fortesoue, of the Sax »>y Theatre, with Lord Gar-
moyle, £lO,OOO worth x>f her photographs in all
sizes have been sold When garments were first
doled out, man gave w man the petticoat. He did
It to prevent her running after him in all his plea-
sures and pursuits He saw that if she once got
rid of that garmei sle would be his equal The
Empress of Japan u not hold a very high opinion
of the virtues of the ladies In her Empire. She
has lust ordered her Chamberlain to prepare a list
of all tbo fai liful wives In the country, so that she
may present them with a medal or badge of chastity
The dress parade at Saratoga this season was
tremendous. The wife of a Philadelphia million-
aire appeared in laces and silk valued at £6000; her
diamonds totalled £15,000. Her uniform on parade
therefore represented £21,000. Why do not some
millionaires’ wives appear in mantles made out
of £lOOO notes? That would be original...
In England, a young lady recently received a dozen
offers of marriage in one week. She is very plain-
looking; but her father, who Is worth £lOO,OOO, Is
very ill. 1. .The word Fashion was the name of an
English dressmaker of the last century, who was
quite as cel< brated In her day as Worth is In this
century. Miss Fashion lived In Hanover-square,
London—a square noted for Its Court dressmakers
even now. Miss Fashion, on account of her cele-
brity, was soon only called Fashion, as Worth Is
simply called Worth, not Mr. Worth. Miss Fashion’s
taste was sj great that every dress of taste and
elegance was called fashion. “That’s Fashion”
meant, in effect, the ne plus ultra of taste
A lady wrote to a gentleman the other day, asking
him to send her his aut< graph and a lock of hair.
The following is the answer received “The
person who wrote my autographs has been sent
away, because of bad conduct, and the new one Is
bald. Thus, you understand, I can neither send
you autographs nor locks of hair.” “ Why Is it
that you treat me with such disdain ?” asked a
young Society beau of a married lady. “As long as
you are not on good terms with my husband, I
cannot possibly treat you kindly.” “ This Is a hor-
rible dilemma,” responded the gilded youth ; “if
you show me any attention, your husband refuses
to speak to me, and, unless he is friendly, you give
me the cold shoulder. I never was in such a
hideous fix in ail my life.” Almost any man will
forget his £1 10s. umbrella when he leaves a
a restaurant; but give a woman a parasol
worth 45., and take her into fifty restaurants,
and she will not forget It once It makes
a man displeased to suddenly come round
the corner of a street, meet a richly dressed
woman, receive a charming bow, doff his hat
nearly to the ground, and then discover that he
has been doing the polite to his cook. This is
what occurred last week ...A prominent optician
says dotted veils do a great deal of damage to the
eyes. “You would be surprised,” saidne, “if I
should tell you that a large part of my practice Is
oxvlng to the use of these vei15.”....“ Deal ten-
derly with women,” was the advice which Goethe
left as a legacy to his countrymen. At Berlin
it appears to be carried out in a practical
manner, for In the published catalogue of parish
teachers, male and female, the age of the male
teachers only Is given. The column where the age
of the women ought to be Inserted Is, with a deli-
cate regard for their feelings, left blank. Here's
a hint for G. H. Reid.
OH, THOdE RACES.
The first picture shows Smithers starting for the races. The second shows him as he
looked when he got home. The old story—backed tue wrong horse, and drowned his
sorrows.


TRICYCLES.
UST ARRIVED, a large shipment of the
celebrated
Excelsior Tricycles,
For Ladies or Gentlemen.
Send for lists and TEEMS of Payment.
Repairs executed by experienced Coventry
bicycle makers.
BAYUSS, THOMAS & CO., 68 King Street.
Sale Esztraord.ira.ax'jr I
OTICE to QUIT our STORE at 58 Clarence-street, having been given by Lister Henry, in conse-
quence of his requiring more room, we are
N
COMPELLED TO SELL OUR LARGE STOCK OF OVER
200 PIANOS AND ORGANS
before the end of this month.
This is the more unfortunate, as we have only just landed some beautiful Instruments, which, by
reason of their excellence of finish, would command high prices, but which we must turn over even at
lower rates than our competitors ask for inferior goods.
Those who wish to see the most beautiful Model Pianos in Sydney are cordially invited. No one is
pressed to buy. OUR PIANOS and ORGANS SPEAK for THEMSELVES.
THE SMITH ORGANS, from 11 to 00 guineas, will be sold during the month at liberal discounts.
David Lee says “By far the finest Instrument of the kind I have ever seen.”
Julius Herz says :—“The nearest approach to the pipe organ which ever came under my notice.”
J. Churchill Fisher, the eminent Professor of Music, writes :—“I am happy to testify to the
excellence of your Smith American Organs. The one in use in the Public Training School, Fort-street,
has given general satisfaction. Its tone is pure and pipe-like in quality, the Kaolophon especially being
an exquisite solo stop.”
A Clergyman says :—“ During the last three days I have visited every music store in Sydney, but
have found your instruments far superior both in quality and cheapness.”
CASH ; OR THE EASIEST TERMS. Illustrated lists on application to
CHAMPION & BRUCE, 281 George Street,
OPPOSITE HUNTER STREET.
BOYD’S
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OVER PALING’S),
IS NOW OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged by
Mr. B. All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
N.B.—BOYD (OVER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
L. E. HENDERSON, Manager.
O-13-A-WD DZS ZPIe-A-TT-
J. J. RYAKT,
THE PEOPLE’S CLOTHIER,
Is OPENING up, every day, a Large Stock of Choice and Fashionable MEN’S, BOYS’, and YOUTHS’
SUITS. TROUSERS and VBS I S, SAC, FROCK, and PAGET COATS, HARD and SOFT FELT HATS
WHITE and REGATTA SHIRTS, COLLARS, TIES, and HOSIERY. Every article is marked In
plain figures, and at VERY LOW PRICES.
Both shops are thorougly chock full. Come early and inspect the Stock In both shops.
I keep the LARGEST STOCK of WORKING MEN’S CLOTHING in SYDNEY to choose from.
Be sure you find the right shops, when requiring CLOTHING OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
J. J. Ryan, 760 George Street, Hayvnarket;
And 466 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Markets, near Market Street.
TRICYCLES I BICYCLES I TRICYCLES 1
THE BPARKBROOK
NATIONAL
Triced©,
The only perfect Double Driver, being
fitted with the
Patent Differential Donble
Driving Gear,
Is the PRETTIEST, the NEATEST, the
NEWEST, the BEST,
Txic^role;
Has Ball Bearings to all WHEELS and
PEDALS, and is, from its Safety
and Base of Working,
Especially Adapted to . Ladies’ Use.
The English Field, of 2nd June, 1883, says:—“The SPARKBROOK NATIONAL STRICYCLE is
driven by a gearing which forms one of the most clever and ingenious contrivances we have yet seen used
for this purpose. Its practical success Is attributable to Its simplicity. In its behaviour o n the road It
full 1 ,' realised our expectations, both in ease of propulsion and the facility with which it c 'em be guided
and controlled .” 1
PRICE LISTS, OPINIONS OF THE PRESS, TESTIMONIALS, &0.,
ON APPLICATION TO
TDM & CO., Sik Agents, CG7 George CM,
OPPOSITE HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A CUP OF GOOD COFFEE
IS WHAT YOU WANT, BUT SELDOM GET.
er* THEN ASK YOUR GROCER OR STOREKEEPER FOR
A. G. Churchwooa’sCrown Brand
BLENDED FROM THE FINEST MOCHA, JAMAICA, and CEYLON BERRIES,
Hvfaxtin. Ileeclxari,
STAR & GARTER HOTEL
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
At no expense has been spared In the erection of the Hotel premises, M.K. guarantees county
1 visitors ana others the best accommodation, combined with oivlii iy.
THE FOLLOWING STALLIONS will Stand
the ensuing Season at RICHMOND, where
first-class Paddocks will be provided for Mares,
with every care and attention, but without re-
sponsibility
A few half-bred Mares will be taken to Beauelerc
at half-price.
Bach Horse will be limited to 16 of the public
mares.
All Mares must be paid for and removed by
January 1, 1884.
ANDREW TOWN, Richmond.
LYDESDALEB.
The following Imported Pure Clydesdale STAL-
LIONS will STAND at Richmond the coming
Season, when first-class Paddocks will be provided
for Mares, with every care and attention, but
without responsibility
MUIR LAD,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
DAVIE,
Terms —6 Guineas per Mare.
GALLANT SCOTCHMAN,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
Comment on these Horses is unnecessary. They
have proved themselves on all the principal Show
Grounds of the Colony, and their Stock have done
the same, their progeny at six months old selling
at from 50 guineas to 100 guineas each.
All Mares must be paid for and removed by
January 1,1884.
ANDREW TOWN, Richmond.
mo STAND THIS SEASON at MULGRAVB,
I near WINDSOR, the Imported coasUng
stallion,
PERFECTION,
the thoroughbred horse,
TESTATOR,
and the Exmoor pony,
UNCLE TOM.
PERFECTION, a brown horse, 5 years old, stands
IT.I hands high, perfect in symmetry, with grand
action. His pedigree is as follows :—Sire Coker’s
Perfection, g s Warthe’s Perfection, ggs Jackson’s
Perfection, g g g s Catton, g g g g s Bay Becking-
ham, g g g g g s Grand Conqueror, gg gg g g s
Henderson’s King George. Dam by Old; Pheno-
menon (which horse was sold for 800 guineas), g d
by Wink’s Champion Two half-brothers to Per-
fection were sold for 500 and 800 guineas respec-
tively, when 6 and 3 years old. PERFECTION
took 16 first prizes, and was never beaten In a show
ring.
TESTATOR, by the Tester (Imp.) out of Rosedale
(Imp.), the dam of Kingsdale, winner of the
Hawkesbury Guineas, &c., &o.
UNCLE TOM, winner of first prize at late
Sydney Exhibition, by Sir Thomas (Imp.), out of
Pretty Star (imp.) He stands 12 hands high, has
Immense strength, beautiful symmetry, and per-
fect action. Pretty Star’s dam (Starlight) was
champion racing pony In England, having won
over £2OOO, including a match for £6OO, and was
never beaten.
Terms—
PERFECTION J
Mares left in paddock.. .. 8 guineas each.
Mares taken to horse .. ..6 „ „
TESTATOR 4 „ *
UNCLE TOM 8 „
Good paddocks provided, and every care taken,
without responsibility. As only a limited number
of mares will be taken, early application is neoes-
Bary.
GEORGE 8. YBO.
HO STAND THIS SEASON, at TOCAL.
L PATERSON, the following Thoroughbred
orsea ;
THB DRUMMER (Imp.) Subscription full.
GOLDSBROUQH,
By Fireworks out of Sylvia, by Fisherman flmp.)
out of Juliet (imp.) by Touchstone. He is Eire of
the following winners :—Kamilarol, Morpeth,
Hilarious, Galata, Carmen, Empress, Tlllemby,
Wheel of Fortune, Sou’ Wester, Mlleta, Kaipara,
Primrose, Lord of the Lake, Townely, King’s Own,
Honeydew, &c., &o.
Terms 15 guineas each mare.
STRUCK GOLD.
* Struck Gold is a beautiful dappled brown,
stands 16 hands, with splendid bone, great strength,
and beautiful symmetry. His pedigree cannot be
surpassed (as he combines the much-prize dstralns
of Blrdcatcher, Sweetmeat, and Bay Middleton),
which is as follows :—By the Miner (the only horae
in England that ever beat the mighty Blair Athol),
out of Wh.nnie (dam of Whip, a great performer,
and winner of seven weight-for-age races in one
season), by Pelion, out of Tapioca, by Sweetmeat
(the sire of Macaroni), out of Ellen Middleton
(Wild Dayrell’s dam), by Bay Middleton. The
Miner is by Rataplan (full brother to Stookwell),
out of Manganese, by Irish Bird catcher, &c.
Struck Gold was placed second to Chester at the
late Intercolonial Show, beating Loup Garou,
Imported Eastley, &o.
Terms : £5 ss. each mare.
Good paddocks for the use of mares, with plenty
of grass and water. Every care taken, but no
responsibility incurred.
Season commences Ist September, 1883, and ends
January Ist, 1884, when all mares must be paid for
and removed.
Mares sent by steamer will be received at Mor-
peth ; by train at West Maitland, on receipt of
reasonable notice. For further particulars, apply to
F. REYNOLDS, Tooal, Paterson,
GARTON’S HOTEL,
BWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. O. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 345.
TO STAND THIS SEASON, at Duckenfleld,
near Morpeth.—The Thoroughbred Stallion
HENCHMAN
(late Friday), full brother to Robinson Crusoe, the
sire of Navigator, by Angler, out of Chrysolite,
will serve ten approved mares, besides his owner’s,
at Thirty Guineas per mare.
Also,
CROWN PRINCE,
by Kelp'e, out of Queen’s Head, by Yattendon,
out of Gazelle, will serve ten approved mares,
besides his owner’s,
at Ten Guineas per mare.
Splendid paddocks, and every care taken of
mares sent to the above horses, but no responsi-
bility incurred.
All mares must be paid for before removal.
Season ends on Ist January, 1884. Mares not re-
moved on that date will be charged ton shillings
per week each up to date of removal.
JOHN BALES.
Duckenfleld, September 18th, 1883.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
(W~ THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. H^CatVLxed.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.B.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.'S DUBLIN WHISK RV
IS UNSURPASSED.
It Is bottled In bond for Ex >t .1 the Dist illery.
Dublin, and consumers may, t refore, rely that it
has not been In the hands of “ hiskey Doctors."
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.B.W. and OueenslanC
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 Park Street.
I M Hi IKTKKI*
•1
HI aWIHv
by every maker
of renown, from
£26 and up-
wards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
J. MASSEY & SUN,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE
COFFEE PALACE,
231 GEORGE STREET NORTH.
JOHN JOHNSON, Proprietor.
HAVING opened the above, the Proprietor has
supplied a want long felt in Sydney. The
first floor contains spacious Ladles and Gentle-
men’s Dining and Drawing Rooms, also Single and
Double Bedrooms, replete with every comfort,
A TRIAL IS RESPECTFULLY SOLICITED.
THE ADBTRALJ AW
Diamond Drill Company.
CONTRACTS will be undertaken by the above
Company to bore any sized holes, vertical or
horizontal, up to
3 INCHES, OR LARGER IF REQUIRED,
to any depth, at a reduction of 35 PER CENT.
BELOW’ ANY PREVIOUS CHARGE.
The Company, in all cases, will find their own
fuel and water for drilling purposes, and will make
no charge for loss of diamonds or wear and tear on
plant, and will also provide workmen engineers, <Jco.
pT The new duplex barrel, Introduced into the
colony by Mr. J. Ooghlan, will be used free of
charge to persons searching for minerals.
Mr. Coglan has every confidence, from his prac-
tical knowledge of the Diamond Drill, that he will
be able to give general satisfaction, as well as quick
despatch to all ordei© addressed to the
Temporary Offices, 811 George-street.
JOHN COGHLAN,
General Manager, pro. tern.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
& Warranted first quality
v Charges strictly moderate
MARSHALL BROTHERS
Surgeon dentists iogmarketst e.
All dental operations performed with skill.
Teeth stopped, and extracted painlessly.
CRESWELL’S CHOICE SEEDS.
ON receipt of £l, the following collection ot
NEW GARDEN SEEDS will be forwarded
Free by return of post to any part of New Sout h
Wales
loz. Beet (blood red), loz. Borecole or German
Greens, loz. Broeoli, 3oz. ( abbage (early ai d
late). 3oz. Carrot (2 varieties), loz. Celery, loz.
Cauliflower, loz. Cress (curled), loz. Muster *
(fine white), loz. Lettuce, loz. Parsnip, loz.
Parsley (extra curled), 2oz. Onions (3 varie-
ties), 4oz. Turnip (3 varieties), loz. Bk.vo\.
loz. Spinach, 2oz. Radish (long and turnip), 3
packets Melons (water and rock), I pack* t
Cucumber, 1 packet Pumpkin. 1 packet
Tomato, 1 packet Vegetable Marrow.
One half of above collection, 10s, post free. 12
Fackets of choice asserted Flower Seeds, suitable
or present sowing, will be presented with each
post collection of Garden Seeds. Assortments ot
Seeds, containing Peas and Beans, for transit I>>
eoach, rail, or steamer, for small or large gardei *,
from 10s, £l, £3, and £3 3s each. Payments made
by money order or, stamps.
C. F. CRESWELL, Seed and Plant Merchant,
474 George-street, Sydney.
MOUSTACHE AND WdloKtßS.
Boyd's Heard r Mxlr did this, and will do U
on either bald bead or bare f.»ee. t- oroea
heavy Moustache ip from 2 to 4 weeks and
never• falls. -0.000 young men already wear
| full beam having ueed Ito 3 pkt's. No
injury, easily applied, certain in effect.
Packets la. 64* each,3 for 3e.‘ bdi, post paid,
sent under cover,free from obeervatioo. Address, Frank Douolan
Sole Agent, Box 730. Q.F.0., Sydney, N;8 W.


Father Bermlngham has gone to king-
dom come. He was an audacious mendicant. He’d
put your name down on one of his subscription
lists without authority, and when you remon-
strated (if he saw your displeasure wasn’t more
than skin deep) he’d cry “sure you wouldn’t make
a liar of me 1 He and his pal, the late Very, O
Very Rev. Dr. M 4 Alroy, mistook their occupations.
They should have gone on the high Toby. As it
was, their 44 your money or hell to your soul ” was
an expression built on the same lines as the more
honest highwayman’s “your money or your life.”
But Dr. Bermingham meant well.
In England, William Goulstone’s mother
and several of her relatives were mad. William
himself wished to die, as he was in a low, morbid
state, and was racked physically by constant pains
and aches. But, determined that his own experi-
ences should not descend to his children, he
murdered the lot. For this he was, when the mail
left, under sentence of death, and the strongest
reason put forward for hanging him is, that other
people with morbid tendencies in the killing line
may be deterred when down-hearted from prac-
tising on their wives and children. The eminent
Dr. Savage, physician to Bethlehem Hospital—and
he ought to know—declared the man insane, and
that his case is one for an asylum and not for a
rope. The Dr’s, arguments induce Vanity Fair
to retort:— 44 Society hangs, in short, not to punish,
but to deter, and because hanging has been shown
by experience to be the best deterrent known. If
he is so insane as not to know what violent death
is in the case of those he murders, he is
probably so Insane as not to know what it is In
tils own case, and therefore no great harm is
done to him by hanging him. [Whew I
Ed. B.] And, in any case, it is better that
a hundred Insane murderers should be hanged,
than that hanging should lose one-hundredth part
of its deterrent effect.” We suppose Vanity Fair
means one hundred insane working men, not one
hundred insane peers. We have attended many
executions—sometimes as a witness, sometimes to
bear a hand. For us life- will henceforward pos-
sess lew attractions unless we succeed In getting
the job of pulling the night-cap over the face of
the Vanity Fair writer, and giving him a long
drop into—Heaven. Vanity Fair is the organ of
the nobility. Crime and poverty run couples.
Therefore, noblemen, who are rich and all the rest
of it, rarely commit murder. When a titled lady
purloins a pair of gloves from a draper’s shop, ora
sum of money from a friend’s house, it is invari-
ably 44 kleptomania.” And when a rich man com-
mits a murder, he is always found 44 Insane.”
An Italian journal says that the present
Pope “ has Initiated the era of discussion, which
now succeeds to that of anathema.” Humph I
We suppose there is no more room In Hell. Bad
news this! What a pile of people we know will
be homeless in the next world I
Those who take an annual trip to the N.Z.
hot springs and have experienced the discomforts
of the coaching journey between Tauranga and
Ohlnematu will be glad to hear that a railway is to
be at once made, by a private company, between
the two places named. The project is just a lit-
tle late in the field. Had It been started before
the Times let loose a correspondent to tell about
the Yellowstone National Park in America—
“ Coulter's Heel” It is famllarly called—there
might be some reason for it; but now that the
correspondent has put the world in possession of
facts relating to “ Coulter” and his “ Heel,” the
New Zealand Ohlnemutu can take a back seat.
Coulter, it appears, “runs” caves, hot and cold
water, calcareous deposits, steam and stalactites.
Anglers, sitting by the cool stream in the Yellow-
stone Park, catch trout, and without taking them
from the hook, swing them across to the hot
springs alongside, where they are cooked. Unless
the New Zealanders can Improve upon this, either
by introducing flour and butter into their warm
springs, or by some other Ingenious means for
making fishing attractive, it is as well for them to
give up the railway idea.
The choir of the Roman Catholic church
at new Brighton (Eng.) lately refused to chant the
prayer for the Queen. The prayer is not obliga-
tory with Catholics. When Cardinal Manning
“ bossed ” the Bayswater Church, he always in-
sisted on Its performance. At the consecration of a
chapel in his diocese, Dr. Knight, R.C. Bishop of
Shrewsbury, proposed the “ Pope and Queen " in
one toast. This, of course, was not during the
consecration, but at the subsequent feed. All this
is brought to mind by the recent death of the Rev.
Dr. Bermlngham, of Wagga, who In life In-
sisted on bringing His Holiness on first. It
is a hard matter to please everybody, and,
In a mixed community like this, the man
who discovers some way of fetching on both
exalted personages at the same time will be a
public beuefaetor. To the minority it Is objection-
able to place the Queen over the Pope on the
toast list, and equally objectionable to the majority
to place the latter over our rightful Sovereign.
If they could be introduced In pieces and put to-
gether when they were done with, the difficulty
might be got over that wav. But—we have not
fimo to fo thoroughly into the matter now,
The Hgghenden Ensign (Q.) speaks on
the Coolie question:—“The coloured races have
far outnumbered the white ones ever since the
creation of man, and they show no signs of dying
out, save in America and Polynesia; the African
and Asiatic do not fade before the white man, and
it is clear that the Deity means them still for a
place in the world. Tropical Queensland must be
like the rest of the trepioal world, and between
Cancer and Capricorn, at all events, John Bull
must give up some of his old-world hobbies, along
with his beefsteaks, bottled stout, and broadcloth.
In fact the writer, having sugar to raise or copper
ore to work, naturally enough prays for cheap
labour. The desire is perfectly legitimate, and the
subject is one on which every diversity of opinion
will exist so long as men view It from different
standpoints. The really amusing portion of the
Hughenden man’s contribution is the familiar
manner in which he speaks of the Creator’s
designs. One would imagine he was a member of
some celestial cabinet, and was in all the Great
Architect’s secrets. His assumption that the
Deity mapped out certain portions of the earth for
white men, and certain other portions, especially
North Queensland, for coloured, is droll. There
was a time when the ancestors of all Europeans
dwelt together in the same tents in tropical Asia.
As they swarmed north, south, east, and west,
their colour, as well as their other characteristics,
were determined by the altitude of the sun, and
the physical peculiarities of the lands on which
they squatted. For their own preservation
the Americans find it necessary to pass strin-
gent laws in order to keep Asiatic hordes from
reducing them to beggary in their own country.
Australians have had to do the same. Cheap
labour is a grand thing, but it may be bought at
too great a price. The Hughenden person sees
before him the chance of making a rapid fortune
if he could only secure semi-savage helps at a
shilling a day, but he does not consider that his
elevation may mean the depression of millions
yet unknown. It is this very desire to get rich, at
whatever cost to the community at large, that is
at the bottom of those ominous bickerings
between labour and capital, whose echoes reach
even these shores from the overcrowded countries
of the old world. In Australia, at. all events,
people are beginning to see—dimly, it is true, but
with ever-increasing intensity—that it is not so
much the accumulation, but the distrOmiion of
wealth that makes a country happy or discon-
tented. Yes, cheap labour, like peace, is a fine
thing, but both can be purchased too dearly.
The latest—and this takes us back to
our chair so as to give the other corner-man a
chance.—Rustic (to Sydney restaurant waitress):
“I’d like to see a—(studies bill)—a—a—omlick,
miss.” Waitress (sharply): “You can’t see no
omllcks here. This ain’t a theatre.” Alas, poor
Yorlckl
Keen competition in Melbourne journalism
now-adays. The Age, not long ago, increased its
sheet to eight pages, and now the Daily Tele-
graph has also been enlarged to eight pages and
ten on Saturdays. The difference between the two
is that the Age has a splendid collection of adver-
tisements, and the Telegraph a big assortment
of reading matter. Another, or rather a new,
extremely Radical morning is shortly to make its
appearance under the name of the Sentinel, and
a fresh Conservative journal is also on the tapis.
while rumour has it that the D.T. proprietors will
?o in for an evening, and, of course, David will
ollow suit with an Evening Age.
Thus a London paper:—“Dr. G. A. Tucker,
the Sydney ‘ scientist, ’ is off again on his tour of
inspection of the European lunatic asylums. The
Doctor, before returning again to London, will
‘do’ the madhouses of France, Italy, Spain and
Portugal, and probably Austria. No suck under-
taking has ever before been attempted, and such
of our English ‘ lunacy ’ experts as Dr Maudsley
and Dr. Tuke ought certainly to place themselves
in correspondence with the Australian doctor,
with a view to gaining something from his mar-
vellous and world-wide experience of lunatic
asylums.” By the way, who Is “ Doctor ” Tucker ?
During the hearing of a Salvation Army
riot case at Fitzroy (Vic.), last week, Mr. Marsden,
J.P.. inquired of the constable whether, should
he (the J.P.) go singing through the streets, would
he be looked up. And the “ foorce ” replied “ cer-
tainly, if you made too much noise.” All this, of
course, may have been a readied-up job to draw
attention to the strict justice dealt out by the
Fitzroy “ foorce.” And again it may not; but it
seems to us that although 1600 people can legally
band themselves together for the purpose of
tramping about the streets and raising Cain, still,
any one person so offending is in danger of getting
boosted up for seven days. Mr. Marsden, however,
may be a specially dangerous subject, because he
is never tired telling people that his grandfather
stood 6ft, 21n. in height, weighed 19st., and when
ha sang bass in the village choir, the people in the
next parish used to tumble out of bed and ask
each other if they heard the earthquake. This, of
course, is quite sufficient to 9CfK9 the soul out of
even a Fitzroy policeman.
Prince Pierre Bonaparte is a constant
visitor to the Australian court of the Amsterdam
Exhibition. It was his father who assassinated
Nolr, the journalist, some years ago. M. Blanc
kept the tables at Homburg and afterwards at
Monaco. The 44 flats” of three continents kept
him in pocket-money, so he thrived exceedingly,
and left his daughter a dot of ever so many mil-
lions of francs. Young Pierre loved her. As he
was young, and hadn’t a cent in the world, he
would have preferred her without any money; but
her cruel father ordained that whoever took her
would have to take the 44 plunder” also, so the
youth bowed to circumstances, and they were
married. M. Blanc then retired from business,
and is now engaged writing his memoirs, to be
published the same year as Talleyrand’s. The Bona-
parte family is quite respectable. Ninety years
ago one of them started in France with a small
capital, but unlimited 44 cheek.” By marrying
well and strictly attending to business, he worked
himself up to be foreman of the concern, and,
ultimately, 44 boss.” He had been apprenticed
early to the butchering trade, and first started in
a small way at Toulon, where one Johnny
Bull had opened a branch establishment. Johnny
lived across the street, and was a plodding, easy-
going tradesman enough, but as stubborn as a
mule. There was scarcely a country in the world
where he hadn’t carried on business at one time or
another; sometimes with success, and sometimes
at a dead loss. His last big failure was in America,
where for five or six years he had to meet the most
determined opposition from people he had started
in business himself. A cousin or his, one “Jona-
than,” entered into partnership with a foreigner
named 44 Crapaud,” and they made things so sultry
for poor Bull that he had to close his American
branch. At Toulon he never got a proper footing,
so that young Bonaparte quickly made him put
his shutters up. Then 44 Boney ” carried the trade
into every country in Europe, until at last he was
master-butcher, and employed more hands than
any other in the same line. None of the Russian.
Austrian, or Prussian slaughtering-houses could
stand against him: so that he had all the trade in
his own hands, until he tried to oppose 44 Alec ” in
the frozen meat department. In this venture ho
lost most of his journeymen from cold and hunger,
so that he was obliged to go through the court.
He made another big effort to establish himself at
a place called Waterloo; but this time Johnny Bull
had organized too formidable an opposition, so
poor 44 Boney” was stone broke, and had to give up
the butchering business. And this brings us back
to young Pierre. The 44 Napoleonic legend ”
having been turned inside out at Sedan, he
turned his thoughts to marriage and ethnology.
It is in pursuit of the latter business that he
hangs round the Australian court at Amsterdam,
gauges the circumference of aboriginal skulls,
and studies the peculiarities of the waddy and the
boomerang. The stand made by his relative at
Sedan having closed France to him and his tribe, he
naturally turns to Australia as a field for his
genius. Should he ultimately settle amongst us,
and pay one visit to our Legislative Assembly, he
will never return to Europe. The peculiarities of
our representatives’ crania will supply him with
food lor the speculation of a life-time.
The antiquity of the present process re-
garding contempt of Court causes it to be revered
in certain quarters. By and bye, people will dis-
cern that in matters of law and social usage the
fact of a proceeding being old is prlma facie evi-
dence of its unfitness for the world of to-day.
rather than the reverse. In that magnificent but
still neglected work, “The Rights of Man,’
Thomas Paine argues that no law should have
force for more than ten years after its adoption,
unless re-instituted, so as to prevent a community
from suffering injustice at the hands of dead
legislators. This principle will be adopted some
day, when the epoch fortold by the same prophet
arrives—" The Age of Reason.” The old fool la
the worst of all fools.
It is rather curious ; but, then, everything
Is curious. Still, it does seem more than ordinarily
strange that every month or so a paragraph should
go the round of the papers, informing the public
that some eminent physician or chemist has dis-
covered that the most familiar kin is of food are
so many different kinds ef deadly poison. And,
stranger still, that nobody seems to take any
notice of these dreadful warnings, and yet nobody
seems to be any the worse for neglecting them.
It has been demonstrated to us five hundred times,
if it has been demonstrated once, that rum is a
surer stiffener at any time than the bite of the
rattlesnake, and yet we have gone on drinking
rum, and are still alive. Now, somebody has
analysed tobacco smoke, and has found it to con-
sist of prussic acid and alkaloids so poisonous that
one-twentieth part of a drop would destroy
animal life. Will the consumption of tin-tag de-
crease when this fact becomes generally known f
We hardly think so. Once we used to amuse our-
selves by asking every man we met with a pipe or .
cigar in his mouth If he thought smoking would
ever go out of fashion. And we never mot one
who thought it would. And we dare say it never
will.
“ 4 A great man has fallen in Israel.’ Dr.
James Begg is dead. It was only the other day
that we read of his mustering his hosts for the
coming struggle about the use of instrumental
music in the Free Church, and now he is gone.”
This is from another religious rag, and is about
the loveliest piece of bathos that has appeared
since the author of the “ Battle of Blenheim ” told
us to
44 Think of two thousand gentlemen at least,
And each one mounted on his capering beast,
Into the Danube they were shoved by shoals ”
(" chucked” or “up-endtd” would have been, in
our opinion, a more forcible antepenultimate
word). So Dr. Begg died while marshalling his
hosts to fight out 44 to the bitter end ” (will nobody
brain the man who Invented this phrase ?) the
momentous question of whether the bag-pipe
accompaniment hitherto used in Presbyterian
Churches was to be discarded in favour of a steam
organ. It is odd, in the light of this heaving,
throbbing, questioning, iconoclastic modern life of
ours, to see these learned old anachronisms dis-
puting as to the description of musical instrument
most favoured by the Creator, while the world
stands laughing by. We did not know Dr. Begg,
but we know many who swear by the same
school of Divinity, and who could advance an
argument and 44 nail’t wl’ Scripture ” to show that
the brass band of the Coldstream Guards is
preferred by the cherubin to the orchestra of the
grand operas, while the seraphim plump for the
strings. 44 And now he is gone—gone where there
is no strife, no din of conflict, no tumult of the
people (and probably no bagpipes), but where the
Seaoe of heaven reigns for evermore.” Strange,
ow much more than their neighbours some
people know I 44 Don’t prophesy—barring you’re
certain,” is a text they never learn. Singular, is
it not, that divines—whose idea of heaven is of a
place where immaterial beings are semplternally
engaged in improvising and rendering pastoral
symphonies on shadowy harps, except when they
have to “ roll up ” to repel a raid of Satan and his
mob, who are always loafing about the back
premises for a chance to slide over the walls—
should so consistently condemn a little harmless
fiddling on earth ? 44 He (Dr. Begg) was . . most
extensively known as a determined opponent of
Innovations in the Church.” Yes ; we like those old
fossils. We love their unwearying efforts to sepa-
rate the wheat of Christianity from the chaff, and
while preserving the latter, to scatter the golden
grain. We admire them for thelrflnelastioity—their
stubborn resolve that the Church of Calvin and of
Knox—the Church that burnt Servetus, and made
the Scotland of the seventeenth century a land of
•wailing and gnashing of teeth—shall be handed
down unaltered, its ruggedness unchanged, ka
creed unpusged. But we pity them, too. To the
light and mercurial, their attitude towards the
universal larw of “change”—the law which pro*
claims in trumpet tones that the universe contains
no eadem semper—may be provocative of mirth,
suggesting, as it does, the stand taken by Mrs.
Partington against the Atlantic. But to us, who
are pensive and distressingly saturnine, the feel-
ing of pity is uppermost as we observe the world’s
Dr. Beggs floundering in the strong glare of nine-
teenth century Illumination, and caJllng heaven to
witness that the farthing rush-light of the six-
teenth siecle is preferable to the incandescent globe
of to-day.
More corporals are to be attached to the
“Nelson,” in order to prevent desertions. But
seeing that the attractiveness of their position is
not any great number of degrees above that of
the ordinary seaman, who will answer for the
corporals ? Quis eustodiet custodes t
Morel!, Selfe, Courtney, Frank!, and
Bdglngton ought to be able to tell whether an iron
bridge can be depended upon. The public will
SI ace confidence in their report, and won’t require
re importation of any big engineering bug from
India, Europe, or America, we understand that
D. Buchanan means to raise a constitutional objec-
tion to the appointment of a royal commission to
try the bridges, on the ground that, according to
Magna Charta bridges should always be tried by
their piers.
The late Mr. James Carey’s affectionate
interest in his friend Joe Brady, as exemplified in
the letter to the latter's parents accompanying the
gift of a prayer-book, is one of the most touching
episodes in their sinister patnershlp. It grieved
Carey to the heart to send Brady to the gallow a.
He alone did not turn informer, and it was not
until both he and Carey had been “ peached ” upon
that Carey resolved to turn informer too. Brady,
according to Carey, was doomed in any case, and
hence, after having been the actual witness upon
whose testimony Brady was hanged, he was able
to say, “ God will have mercy on poor Joe’s soul,”
and to pray that He might also “ give his parents
strength to bear their great affliction.” A little
more of these posthumous revelations of Carey’*
innate goodness, and we shall begin to think he
was an ill-used man.
The Chain of Evidence.
The Rev. Mr. Hamer received his information about immorality in the Victorian State Schools from the Bishop of Melbourne, who had it from a lady, who had it from her husband,
who had it from a man who is dead.
Printed and Published by The Bulletin News*
paper Co. (Limited). «4 PlttrSt., Sydney, N.S.W,
