

“THE BULLETIN”
CHRISTMAS NUMBER.
The Special Christmas Number
of The Bulletin will be issued on
Thursday, 20th December.
Guaranteed Circulation* - 40,000.
Agents are requested to send
in their extra orders at once, as
they will be filled in the order
of priority. The Christmas
Number will be a Splend-d Pro-
duction, replete with unprece-
dented attractions. Advertise-
ments must be sent in at once,
as the sheets have to go to press
early. Appearing several days
before the holidays, the Christ-
mas Number of The Bulletin
affords a special opportunity for
advertising Christmas Goods.
RATES-ONE-HALF ADDITIONAL TO
ORDINARY SCALE.
Magnificent Coloured Supplement,
BY L. HOPKINS.
THE BULLETIN
Vol. 1.—No. 31.—New Series
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 15. 1883.
Price—6cL
THE CIRCULATION OF “THE BULLETIN ”
IS NOW MORE THAN DOUBLE THAT OF
ANY OTHER WEEKLY NEWSPAPER IN
N.S. W.-THAT OF ONE VERT OLD ESTAB-
LISHED PAPER, WHICH EXCEEDS “ THE
BULLETINS" BY ABOUT ONE-FIFTH t
ALONE EXCEPTED. THE CIRCULATION
OF “ THE BULLETIN ” IS THE SECOND
GREATEST AMONG THE WEEKLIES OF
AUSTRALASIA.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 15. 1883.
The Alleged Convention.
A meeting of leading representative men of
ail Australasian colonies is an occurrence
always desirable. It is very unlikely that
such an opportunity of interchanging ideas
and discussing obstacles to united action
nan be unavailing. The formal and official
deliberations may be founded on absurdities
and conducted to a conclusion of naught,
and the gathering still be of service. This,
we conceive, is pretty nearly the situation
with respect to the unauthorised and pre-
tentious Conference to which the style of
“ Convention” has been ridiculously applied.
The main alleged occasion for the gathering
rests upon a fiction. That is, that the people
of Australia are moved as they have never
before been moved, with deep anxiety that
New Guinea be annexed and attached politi-
cally to the colonies, and that the New
Hebrides be preserved for the propagation
of the Presbyterian religion. A Conference
which owes its existence to two such pro-
positions subsists‘on false pretences. There
has never been any considerable indication
that the actual people of Australasia care a
snap of the fingers about annexing New
Guinea; and, as for the New Hebrides,
(Probably at this moment not one man
in a hundred, other than a Presbyterian
minister, could place his fingers at first try
within a thousand miles of their situation
on an ordinary map of the Southern Hemi-
sphere. These questions and others allied to
them constitute metaphorically an inverted
pyramid: they are biggest at top, and
smallest at base. The Australian people
care little or nothing about them. The
political class cares a little more. Leading
politicians take a brisker interest than the
rank and file; and with the little gathering
of picked men from among politicians lead,
ing for the time, they are of paramount
moment.
• • •
The “ Convention ” takes occasion to
cable its resolutions to the Imperial
authorities—an exceptional and, we think,
unprecedented communication. The Im-
perial authorities, and especially the British
public, not properly appreciating the un-
authorised character of the meeting and of
the representations, will be delu .ed into
attaching to it an importance measured by
its singularity, and into concluding that
public opinion throughout Australasia is in
a ferment. As a matter of fact, we assert,
and we appeal to the impressions of our
readers for confirmation of what we ad-
vance, that public opinion in Australia is
languid and indifferent on the subjectr—that
if there were no Conference it would not be
missed, and that even its existence and
discussions have failed to work up and
manufacture any real enthusiasm about
annexation, or to excite other sects to
sympathy with the ambitions of the Calvin-
istio missionaries. The Confexence falsely
describes itself in its cabled message to
England as a Convention, and as represent-
ing the Governments of all the Australasian
colonies. It comprises members of all the
Governments referred to, but it does not
represent them. These Governments derive
their authority from Parliaments which
represent the peoples to which the respective
Administrations are responsible. The scope
of their authority is bounded by customary
and recognized limits. When they step
outside of these, as in instituting the present
“ Convention,” and in jointly addressing the
Imperial authorities on subjects of “ Grande
Politique they require special and specific
authority before they cau claim to give
expression to the voice of the people. The
inhabitants of Australia have never uttered
their views on the questions of annexation
or settlement of the islands of the Pacific.
They have never been asked to do so. Even
in Queensland, when a general election
immediately succeeded Sir Thomas M‘Ie-
wbaith’s annexation dash, the question was
scarcely referred to in election addresses,
and not a single candidate’s acceptability or
otherwise t urned on his views with respect to
this matter. In the other colonies, the topic
has never been referred to the constituencies
at all. In Victoria, Mr. Service and his
Presbyterian supporters —or, rather, Mr.
Service’s Presbyterian supporters and Mr,
Service, their very humble servant—man-
aged to scrape up a few public meetings and
to concoct sundry petitions. But outside of
this insignificant and transparently artificial
agitation, there has been in all Australia
no sign of disquiet or interest. Profound
indifference has characterised the attitude
of the peoples.
Some of the resolutions which this self-
created and irresponsible “Convention” has
cabled to England as the voice of Australia,
are a libel upon the people of this continent.
Take, for example, the very first of theseries,
which alleges “ that further acquisition of
dominion m the Pacific, south of the
Equator, by any foreign Power, would be
highly detrimental to the safety and well-
being of the British possessions in Austral-
asia, and injurious to the interests of the
Empire.” This is what comes of small men
undertaking to deal with great subjects. If
the resolution above quoted signifies any-
thing, it means that Great Britain is to
signify to the world a prohibition against
colonisation in the South Pacific, and to
intimate that she reserves to herself
the right to appropriate all territory,
every gioup and every islet, not at
the present time specifically appropriated
by another Power, in the vast expanse of
ocean extending from the coasts ol Australia
to within sixty miles of the shores of the
South American Republics. We do not be-
lieve that the intelligence of Australia
would have authorised, or would endorse, a
proposition at once so arrogant, so narrow-
minded, and so cowardly. We are here,
some four millions of Britons, established in
a vast and magnificent continent, distinctly
predominant in wealth, numbers, and influ-
ence over all other settlers in this quarter ol
theglobe, i et, forsooth, we are represented
as being so timid that we tremble at the
prospect of foreign lodgment in some com-
paratively minute territory with an ocean
intervening; as being so narrow-minded as
to entertain prejudices against possible
neighbours because they may be “ foreign-
ers,” and so arrogant as to hold that it would
be injurious to the interests of the Empire
that any other race should extend its influ-
ence and add to its possessions. We are
made to advance claims to a monopoly of
the right to annex, to the exclusion of all
the Great Powers of Europe—claims which
no statesman in Great Britain would ever
be so fatuous as to put forward, and which
not one among the Powers of Europe would
admit without a war.
♦ * *
The resolution which deals with New
Guinea has more sense and moderation; but,
as we have pointed out times unnumbered,
for New Guinea to be annexed to the British
possessions in Australasia is not to remove
the contact of foreign neighbours, but to
create it. By annexing New Guinea, we
substitute for a channel wider by hundreds
of miles than that historical moat —the
Straits of Dover—which separates Great
Britain from France, a mere imaginary line,
a political boundary across which a Dutch
and a British sentry might stab one another
with their bayonets. There is but one among
the resolutions which is worthy of attention,
or which is really significant. The members
of the Convention might go on resolving
till their heads became as bald as their
originality, and naught would come of their
resolutions unless there be a correspond-
ing feeling in the Australasian community.
We believe that to be areal “resolution,’*
as firm in the people’s determination as
the rest of the Convention’s phrases
are vain and unechoed, which protests
against the intention of the French Govern-
ment to transport large num bers of recidi-
vists to the Pacific possessions of that
country. That is a real grievance. But
with how much more.moral force could we
appeal to France, a friendly power, to spare
us the injury, did we at same time frankly
agree to accept her honest sons as neigh-
bours, with cordiality, in lieu of sullenly
insisting that the archipelago of the South
Pacific shall be tabooed to every nation but
our own ? And with what sort of counten-
ance can we approach that keen and witty
nation with protests agaiinst recidivists from
THE RIGHT BEY. DR. MATHEW HALE, BISHOP OF BRISBANE.


T
Coughs and Colds.
HE Best Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
68. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Mile Dejartnent,
itfARIET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET,
where you can obtain for
ed..
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
©OLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome of all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELISH WHISKY.
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
3s. per bottle.
HBNNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6e. 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street, Sydney .
a Convention of which one member haa but
yesterday celebrated his acquisition of power
and authority by selecting a man who,
in the Parliament of this colony, has been
openly denounced as a recidivist, to fl.ll the
most honoured position in the legislature
which he represents ?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Cooma Justice.
Up out of the Southern districts there tomes to us
a most singular story about a singularly remark-
able libel case, which, if it be true, in its main
points affords yet another instance of the bizarre
character and farcical (to use no worse adjective)
operation of the N.S.W. libel law. For facilitating
the rt ader’s understanding of the case, let him
take A. and B. to be two settlers mutually enter-
taining for each other the warmest and most un-
compromising hatred; and let him take C. and D.
to be rival newspaper proprietors doing ditto, with
an excess of joumalisticum odium. A. writes a viru-
lent letter, in which he likens some vaguely-drawn
personality to “ Carey, the informer,” calls said
personality a “ lady-killer, a swindling swlper,” and
whatnot; and then offers his hot composition for
publication to C. who declines to publish it, because
(as he subsequently declared in court) he con-
sidered it to be grossly libellous on B. Thereupon
A. goes to D., who accepts and publishes his manu-
script. That deed being consummated, B., re-
cognising himself as the individual referred to In
A. epistle, brings an action for libel in the Dis-
trict Court against A. When the case comes on,
B. swears that the letter did refer to him. His
evidence is corroborated by a brother selector, and
also by C., whose evident antipathy to his rival,
D. was made very apparent by the eager
way in which he insisted that the said letter
was grossly libellous and most certainly directed
against B. No evidence was adduced for the de-
fence ; and after what our authority for this yarn
(the would-be virtuous C.) calls a very lucid sum-
ming up, the jury retired. They hadn’t been away
above twenty minutes, before they returned and
asked if A. could not be put Into the box. This
line being allowed, A. went into the box and
swore point-blank that the alleged libellous letter
did not refer to the plaintiff. In cross-examina-
tion, he declined to say who the “lady-killer” was,
since it might involve him in trouble of the most
serious nature ; declared, with regard to certain
rough statements in the said letter about “ had
coffee,” .that they simply referred to boarding-
house coffee, and in no way at all to any individual
named Michael Coffey ; and swore he had
only spelt the word with a large “ C.”
“because he was a bad scholar.” In his
report of this part of the case, C. goes in for a
little libel on his own account, by stating that the
defendant gave his evidence in anything but a
straightforward or satisfactory manner, by “evad-
ing all questions that did not suit his book I” Any-
way, the jury seem to half-believe A., for, though
B. had claimed £200, they only awarded him £5
damages. “ Five pounds damages! Did I hear you
aright?” roared the Judge. “Fes, your Honor,”
says the foreman. “ Is there any possibility of a
mistake in the verdict?” “No, your Honor!”
We can hardly credit the yarn—we only tell
it as told to us by C.—but at this point the Judge
in order to show how deeply he felt in the
matter personally, and to record his estimation
of the verdict, marked the brief of the
counsel for the plaintiff at twelve guineas, besides
allowing costs on the higher scale! Moreover,
according to the report in C.’s newspaper, His
Honor having remarked that he could not interfere
with the jury’s verdict, went on to say that he
would state fearlessly that had the case been left
in his hands he should have given a verdict for
every shilling claimed! In other words, because
His Honor thought the jury had committed one
wrong, he himself was ready to commit, and did
commit, another. And what was it but a damn-
able wrong—a frightful breach of the principle of
equity—to give a lot of money to one of his own
privileged order out of another man’s pockets, in
order to mark his displeasure that the jury’s
verdict hadn’t gone on all fours with
his own opinions! Had he mulct the
defendant for behoof of the consolidated revenue
in a sum equivalent to the extra amount he marked
on the brief of the plaintiff’s counsel, the matter
would bear a very different complexion from the
very painful hue it wears at present. With Judge;
likening jurymen to Judas Iscariots, materially
altering their verdicts by retrospective autocratic
action and playing similar tricks, the jury as an
institution is bound to get below even the level of
the nightman. This, however, by the way. C.,
who is evidently of opinion that A.’s letter was a
gross libel (it appeared, don’t you see, in the oppo.
sitlon rag), informs the public that much conster-
nation was expressed over the verdict, and that
•‘the general opinion was that the jury were
either asses or knaves.” Our own view is (on
the supposition, at least, that C.’s facts are cor-
rect) that consternation should, indeed, be ex-
pressed at the Judge’s high-handedness in over-
riding the jury’s verdict, and that a Judge «r a
journalist who acts as the Judge appears to have
acted, and as the Journalist certainly has acted in
this case, is utterly unfit for his position. You see
we are very careful, now-a-days, what we say
about Judges. But we shall ask a member of Par-
liament to see whether or not the Cooma Express
has, in its report of a recent libel action, at Cooma,
grossly libelled Mr. District Court Judge Mac-
FARLAND.
“Eyes Right!”
That organisation of “ painted soldiery ” which,
on the lueus a non lueendo principle, is pompously
entitled the N.S.W. Permanent Force, is, as
Mudgee Taylob tells us, rotten to the core. What
with infernal martinetism, persistent favouritism,
notorious corruption, and an excess of official
complication (in which Mr. Secretary-at-War
SrtrABT declares it is inextricably involved), the
Force constitutes a most intolerable scandal.
Meant to be the armed service of a colony essen-
tially democratic, it has by the laches of Parlia-
ment been permitted to develope into an unser-
viceable toy, maintained at considerable cost In
order to afford to a few “ well-connected ” lah-de-
dahs a vent for their insolent “haw-haw
Instead of having adopted the modern French or
American system, under which officer and private,
while duly recognising the gradations of strictly
military rank “ on duty,” can regard one another
“off duty” as brother soldiers, the N.S.W. War
Office authorities have improved upon the British
system (tempo Duke of York, Mrs. Clarke, and
Colonel Wardle), under which the officer was held
to be fashioned of an entirely different class from
that out of which the private had been moulded.
For shaking hands with a private, a New South
Wales subaltern gets court-martialled. For tam-
pering with the till of a canteen, a N.S. Wales field
officer—the charge has been made and has not
so far been denied—is not so much as called upon
to send in his papers. The subaltern’s hands are
so defiled by contact with the private’s paws, that
the digits of his brother officers can’t possibly
grasp them in fellowship. Yet the same delicate
hands—those of officers and gentlemen, pardi!— can
convivially and affectionately squeeze those of
the field officer, defiled though the latter’s may
be (as any honest private soldier would deem
them) by unrighteous contact with the shekels of
the canteen. And then there’s that case about
Stephen, whilom A.D.C. What a vivid illustration
it affords of the contemptuous indifference dis-
played by Governor and Lieutenant Governor to
tho real interests of the colony 1 Lord Augustus
Loftus (with his Foreign Office experience), and Sir
Alfred Stephen, the son of a placeman, the father
of countless placemen, himself a placeman, may
perhaps be excused, on the ground of “ invincible
ignorance” of Liberal requirements, for their
share in all this miserable military muddle. But
for the members of the present Government, and
their immediate predecessors, there can be no
possible excuse. It is all very well for the Premier
to say that the matter was surrounded with diffi-
culty, because the Governor as Commander-In-
Chief can act without the advice of his responsible
advisers in matters of military concern. Ministers
with a backbone would hardly hesitate as to what
to do when an expensive so-called Defence Force
is going to the devil bn account of the idiosyncra-
cies of an old gentleman who, by the accident of
an accident, Is the Commander-In-Chief of New
South Wales. A firm Minister would respectfully
inform His Excellency that he and his colleagues
were not prepared to continue as the advisers of
the Crown (in and for N.S. Wales) unless their
views on all matters of public concernment
received His Excellency’s endorsement. The
Governor, even by the Letters Patent under
which he exercises his powers, can exercise
no powers in excess of those that “We (Jar-
sel /es may lawfully” exercise. The Sovereign (the
“We Ourselves” of the letters patent referred to)
IS, in reality, the humble servant of the Secretary-
at-War, as Mr. Stuart ought to know. And in
colonial military matters, it is imperative that the
same principle should obtain. The people of New
South Wales—a patient and long-suffering race-
are willing enough to permit Lord Augustus
Loftus to save the liberal screw they allow him,
to make no fuss about his practising an immense
inhospitality at Government House ; but we are
confident they won’t permit him, as titular Com-
mauder-in-Chief, to continue to disorganise, either
hy his indifference, or by principles more actively
mischievlous, a force which might have been one
of defence, had not such consistent pains been
taken in fashionable circles to make it, pro-
nouncedly, one of Offence and Scandal.
Quong Tart and the Opium-smokers.
A report and two petitions—all about Chinese
and opium. The report comes from the Britisu
Medical Officer in charge of the Hongkong gaol—
the petition, from Sydney Chinese. The present
Colonial Surgeon at Hongkong completely upsets
all our notions regarding the ill effects of opium-
smoking. We have already referred to thl 8
matter, so that it is unnecessary to do more than
allude to the doctor’s experience. He concluded
that smoking— not eating, mind you—opium
had no effect whatever: that whether the drug
was entirely freed from morphia, or contained a
stiff percentage of that alkaloid, the smoker found
no difference. The habit could be left off much
more easily than the use ol tobacco, and was not
attended by any of the longing of which notaries
of the latter find it so difficult to get rid. In a
word, the practice of opium-smoking (according
to the doctor) is not so much deleterious as it is
stupid. Let us now turn to the genial Mr. Quong
Tart, of Sydney. By means of Caucasian and
Mongolian signatures, Quong is about to urge on
Parliament the duty of stopping the Importation
of opium. He says the consumption is increasing
among his countrymen in N.S.W.; that it is ex-
ceedingly hurtful to them and to the general
population, impairing, as it does, the moral and
physical systems and Inducing indolence. That,
owing to this narcotically-induced laziness, the
Chinese gamble, loaf, annex peripatetic chickens,
live in tumble-down hovels with an empty
gin case for a door and a hole in the side for a
chimney ; that European women and girls fre-
quent those palaces, take to opium, and partici-
pate in scenes of the grossest licentiousness, and
that in China the use of the drug is confined to
the very dregs of society. It is difficult to recon-
cile this last statement with those of soldiers and
sailors who have been stationed in the Flowery
Land, and who noticed how the Mandarins of
innumerable tails and buttons retired after dinner
for a whiff of the prized dhudeen. But the third
document is the most suggestive of all. It Is a
petition from the New South Wales Chinese who
use opium, and who resent the action of the
prosperous Quong Tart in endeavouring to de-
prive them of the only luxury they possess in
their exile. This is how it runs: “To the Honor-
able the Chief Mandarins of New South Wales,
brothers of the Sun and Moon, and first oousins of
Ursa Major and the approaching Comet, the fol-
lowing petition from poor Chinamen not so high
up in the world as Mr. (here there is a highly ob-
jectionable word) Quong Tart, humbly showeth—
(1) That your petitioners, having quite as lively
an interest in the well-being of the community as
Mr. (the unmeaning adjective again occurs) Quong
Tart (who can enjoy many mild and fashionable
dissipations denied to them, and whose feet appear
to have outgrown his boots owing to the society
of the sweet creatures who go to drink his tea and
confide to him little secrets), trust you will not re-
gard his ‘ feelings of alarm ’ at their use of opium.
(3) That, so far from the use of opium being hurtful
to those habitually indulging in it, many of your
petitioners have been smoking it for close on half
a century, and are now as alert in cleaning a hen-
roost or damaging a plate of porkee-porkee as in
the days of their adolescence. (3) That the use of
opium, if deleterious at all, is not nearly as bad as
alcohol or strong tea, which perverts the moral
sense, and incites to every variety of crime. If,
Instead ot depriving them of their one luxury,
Mr. Q. T. had petitioned you to stop the manufac-
ture of alcohol, which fills the gaols and asylums,
there would be some reason for his interference.
(4) That your petitioners live in small houses
because they like them, and because their fathers
for the last four thousand years inhabited build-
ings of the same style of architecture. The
advantage of retiring to rest in a bunk that fits
you like a coffin, and where you are never far from
your clothes, needs no demonstration. As for the
European women and girls spoken of by Mr.
Quono Tart, they come among your petitioners
on account of the cruel manner in which they are
treated by their kindred who use alcohol. The
supposition that cutting off the opium supply
would entice a better c ass of Chinese to N.S.W. is
purely visionary. It would rather have a tendency
to keep them away; for it is entirely wrong to say
they do not use it. For these and many other
reasons that could be brought forward, your
petitioners trust that you will not entertain Mr.
Quong Tart’s proposal, and that you will convey
'to him your desire that in future he attend to
selling his tea, and not shove his shovel in where
there is no need. And your petitioners will ever
pray.”
♦
“ The Champion Pauper of the World! ” Such is
the proud title conferred on a poor woman who
has been shipped back to Wellington (N.Z.) from
London—a little village too poor to be burdenc ■
with her support. It would cost the metropolis of
the world at least five shillings a week to keep her
alive, and that blessed metropolis can’t stand the
expense. Several learned mathematicians figured
the thing out, and proved to a cipher that such
was the case. Consequently, after considering her
helpless condition, the Christian philanthropists of
England decided to have her shipped or steamered
back to New Zealand, where she came from, and
where it is understood she has a husband and
several children settled and provided for comfort-
ably in their graves till the General Resurrection.
Wlien the news reached the Antipodes, an extra-
ordinary meeting of the commitee of the
Wellington Benevolent Institution took place to
consider the situation, and it was unanimously
decided, immediately on the arrival of the poor
creature, to call|in the aid of the police 1 After the
committee recovers its composure, no doubt it
will be found expedient to have this human dere-
lict re-shipped to New Guinea, Caledonia, or Tris-
tan d’ Acunha. We recommend the latter place'
The climate is bracing and conducive to a healthy
appetite. This new industry of shipping paupers
from one end of God’s earth to the other, and
then shunting them back again, must be very
pleasing to the Almighty who made them. If it
continues to grow as it is growing, it will soon
rival the frozen meat trade in importance. And
then the time may come when paupers will be
refrigerated wholesale as well as mutton—or better
still, being principally bones, manufactured into
bone-dust to fertilise the land that jcouldn’t feed
them high enough to cover them with flesh. The
Christian philanthropists of England should see to
this. They have an immense supply of bone
material among the five million paupers of
Britain ready to their hand, and the impoverished
estates of the aristocracy need it badly to recu-
peratelthe soil.
♦
It is extraordinary how opinions differ. The 8.M.
Herald has a St. Petersburg correspondent,
whose letters never bear any indication of mutila
tions by the censors while in transit through the
Post Office. This may be attributed to the
Herald’s correspondent being an of the
British Embassy, and sending his lucubrations
through official channels with the Governor’s
despatches. But, on the other hand, it may be due
to the extreme flunkeyism of the writer, whose
tenderness for the Government shows through
every letter, and who never fails to impart to
every incident the colour best adapted to extenu-
ate the infernal system which has made Russia a
hell to its people and a purgatory to its rulers.
The Tourganoff incident recorded in the last
letter of this correspondent Indicates the bias of
his mind very plainly. Tourganoff, the greatest
novelist Russia has ever had, was a voluntary
exile from his country: a country which no man
of his genius could possibly live in—and write.
He died the other day, and the Court hastened to
claim for magnificent sepulture the bones of the
man who had, living, shunned its brutal influence.
Tourganoff had been great by genius; and to
the artificial greatness of rank, the greatness of
genius is ever, but especially when inspired by
liberal sentiments, a menace. Tourganoff, living,
was dangerous, and best left alone; Tourganoff,
dead, must needs minister to Imperial vanity.
Lavroff, another, but involuntary, exile, stepped
forth to protest. Tourganoff, he proved, had
yearly contributed two hundred francs towards
the support of Lavrofp’s Nihilistic paper, For-
wards. Thus Lavroff disputed, on behalf of the
Liberals, with the Imperial clique possession of
Tourganoff’s memory and prestige. He said, in
effect, you claim this genius, dead, for your service
on false pretences. He was ours in sympathy and
brotherhood while he lived. The nation loved and
revered him, and you, diademed robtjers as you
are, would steal his very example from us. The
Government have opposed to this vigorous cry a
dead silence, but they cling to the dead man and to
their magnificent preparations for making his
obsequies give the lie to his living will. Comment-
ing on this, the Herald’s correspondent re-
marks “ This mean and cowardly attack upon a
dead man’s reputation—this base attempt to rob a
benefactor of the last honours he so well deserved,
and to frustrate the accomplishment of his dying
wish—can give an insight into the character of that
sort of people better than volumnes of description
could do.” Truer words could not have been
fouued to characterise the transaction. But,
inconceivable as it may appear, it is not the
Russian Court the Herald’s correspondent
thus accuses. It is Lavroff, the sharer of
Tourganoff’s exile I
*
W hatever effect the resolutions of the Convention
may have in England, where they may be mis-
taken, in default of accurate information, for the
determinations of the Australasian colonists, it is
very clear that in the colonies themselves the
business will end as it began—in smoke. The Fede-
ral Council project concocted in the *• Convention”
is so crude as to invite derision rather than atten-
tion. The participants in the Conference have
chosen, of their own motion, and without any
outside demand or authority, to invite the Home
Government, upon their recommendation, to prac-
tically supersede or disrate the existing Parlia-
ments of the colonies. Now, there can be no
heartier advocates for Federation than we are; and
for that very reason we deprecate and contemn
the irresponsible fussiness and frowardness of any
body of men who, acting at the wrong time and in
t he wrong fashion, really operate so as to make
Jjhe idea of a Federal Government offensive and
repugnant to the colonists. We have always men-
tioned that nothing short of a great and urgent
necessity will really bring about Federation. We
would rejoice to find ourselves proved false pro-
phets. But it really seems as though the members
of Convention hold the same opinions, and differ
only in fancying that the little artificial splutter
about annexation constitutes a real crisis. We
predict that the Federal Council business will be
either scouted or contemptuously dropped by the
Parliament of every colony in the group. The
thing as proposed is worse than a farce. It is a
blundering proposition to create an irreponsible
Star Chamber to dominate and supersede popular
and representative Assemblies, which have thus
far shown no disposition to abdicate their func-
1ons.
*
Mr. J. F. Allen, of the Trades Hall Committee in
Melbourne, is not at present a very distinguished
man, and there would be, at least, a little rashness in
fixing upon any particular date in the present
century in which he will be popularly regarded
as a very distinguished man. Of course time
doesn’t end with this century. There is a whole
eternity after it, and from 1899 Mr. Allen can be
anybody. We won’t interfere. We shall have re-
tired then, and shall be contributing our little mite
to the music of the spheres. But “ the fine young
man,” is getting so much praise from many sides
for a little speech he made lately at a meeting of
his fellow workmen, that, not knowing the vigour
of his digestion, we are impelled to offer him a
liver-pill to avert dangerous contingencies. It is
true that they feel as sick who surfeit on too
much as they who starve on nothing. All these
platters of luscious Laudation are placed before
him, because he said in connection with Mr
Ormond’s gift, “I don’t care if Mr. Ormond’
wants a title. I don’t care what his motives are
so long s the working men benefit bv his gifts. ’’
That’s ah; ..nd it is highly utilitarian. But, assum-
ing that such are Mr. Ormond’s motives, then we
would ask Mr. Allen, while he enjoys each
platter, to try and solve the difference between
working-men who take these gifts, and beggars
who take the gifts of the ostentatious alms-giver
The trial will be an antidote to the luscious rich-
ness of the repast.


Mr. Henry Richard, M.P., recently stated,
as a result of calculations, that the actual workers
of the kingdom worked twenty-six minutes every
day in the year to pay the interest on the National
Debt, twenty-eight minutes fer the maintenance
of our armaments, five minutes for the cost of
collecting taxes, nine minutes for the relief of the
poor, nine minutes for local taxation, and twelve
minutes for the cost of civil government.
Ambassadors have been described—by the
way, our own venerated Governor was long an
Ambassador—as persons who “ lie abroad for the
good of their country.” Russian Ambassadors
sometimes do more. Blocque Bey. who holds the
position of Mayor of Pera, has been placed under
arrest, the charge againt him being that he in-
vited the Kussiaa Ambassador to his villa. Situated
near Buyukdere, whence his Excellency was
enabled to sketch the entrance to the Bosphorous
and the fortifications in its vicinity. According
to current report, the Russian Am bassador took
full advantage of his opportunities on the
occasion.
Mr. Hardie has been
elected by his brethren
to the Mayoralty of the
city of Sydney.
Poor ! Once
Postmaster-General, and
but the other day lined
live bob for being drunk
and disorderly. Still, old
man, you haven’t fallen
quite so low as some ex-
Minlsters.
On 2nd instant some
700 Egyptian troops
encountered a force
under one of the Mohdy’s
partisans near Souakim.
All, save 45, were cut to
pieces. A detachment
of Baker’s gensdarmes
arrived too late to be of
service.
The Parliamentary
Innuendoes regarding Mr
Paling’s property, its
acquisition or disposal,
are quite without foun-
dation. As his preseni
lease has some years to
run, and as a large block
of neighbouring ground
is his, the business will be
carried on without inter-
ruption,
A year or two ago,
It may be remembered,
Mr. .Norton, country po-
lice magistrate, N.S.W ,
was shot by his
paramour, a rather hand-
some woman. The fas-
cinating murderess was
sentenced to three years’
gaol, part of which sen-
tence she has still to
serve. She is, it will in-
terest many to know, the
fair creature who, in
consequence of a liaison
contracted in prison with
the son—aged seventeen
—of a gaol official, will
shortly add to the popu-
lation ot this suffering
country.
Qui s' excuse s' accuse.
L i e u t e n a nt-Governor
gi Stephen writes to the S.
M. Hbrald in the vain
hope of being able to
prove that all was per-
fectly O.K. about Gov-
ernor Loitus’ recommen-
dation of Nathan’s appli-
cation for promotion to
a vacant captaincy in the
Permanent Force. In
realitj, Stephen’s letter
is, while one word for His
Excellency, two for him-
self; since, if report
speaks truly, it was upon
Stephen’s strong recom-
mendation that Nathan’s
promotion was so inde-
corously urged upon the
proper military authori-
ties. Sir Alfred Stephen
has read the “ entire
mass ol documents,above
two hundred,” bearing
directly an > indirectly
on this peculiar case, yet
is 01 opinion still that
there is nothing what-
ever to excuse the impu-
tations ("or any one of
them”) made upon gu-
bernatorial and lieuten-
ant-gubernatorial action
in regard to the processes
by which military pro-
motion is ir-regulated in
this colony. It is
quite probable that no
one save the son of a
placeman and piacemon-
ger, one himself a place-
man, would be able not
to see that there was a
gross breach of impro-
priety (to use no stronger
expression) in the Gover-
nor recommending an of-
ficer for promotion in a
Force in which promo-
tion was presumed to go
(ceteris paribus) by (seni-
ority. In the eyes of
Liberals, the particular
offence of the Governor
in the matter consists in
the fact that His Excel-
lency not only strained
his gubernatorial func-
tions to oblige a place-
man s placeman, but dis-
tinctly ignored his duties
as Commander-in-Chief.
His Excellency may have
done it—possibly did do it
—in ignorance. He was,
when he did it, a stranger
in the land. But Stephen
was a very old hand in
the land, and yet he did -
what he did.
Mr. Reid's introduction of cooking into
the girls’ school curriculum, gives practical effect
to wh t is yet merely in the stage of discussion at
home. The Newcastle Chronicle— the organ of
Joseph Cowan, M.P., the great Radical leader—
refers a terrible evil partly to “ the modern prig-
gishness which worships a showy dress and is
shocked by a welted hand. Girls are allowed to
grow up not merely ignorant of household duties,
but witu a contempt for them. As a consequence,
we have in married Hie thrift lessness, discomfort,
and discord, which lead on to pauperism or crime.
In many of our public schools, the utmost pains
are taken to make girls, who are likely to be the
wives and mothers of mechanics or labourers, pro-
ficient in music and singing, geography, and his-
tory, while little or no pains are taken to prepare
them for the management of a household. The
inspector for the Northallerton district, gives one
or two instances in his report, which are tho-
roughly typical of what is done. ‘Some years
ago,’ he says, ‘ I asked the mistress ot a school I
was inspecting at Harrogate to set the gins the
following question, * How would you light a fire?'
On looking at the blackboard where she had
transcribed the question, I found it amended thus
■* How would you give directions to light a fire ? ’ ”
The Photographic Art in Sidney.—
Messrs. Tuttle and Co., the extent of whose photo-
graphic business is now widely known throughout
the colony, are determined, judging from their
recent extensive alterations, to retain their hold
on the popularity of the public. As is well known,
Mr. Tuttle comes direct from San Francisco, the
city var excellence of the whole photographic
world, where he was proprietorily identified with
the chief house in that go-ahead city. Coming to
Australia about two years ago, and seeing the
opening that existed for the higher work of the
photographic art, he resolved to start business
Imre. He first turned his attention to Melbourne,
where his genius found a wide, appreciative, and
profitable field for its operation. The establish-
ment opened in Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, has
been the art rendezvous of that city for many
months. Having thoroughly established in Mel-
bourne, Mr. Tuttle proceeded to carry out what
was bis original intention—a big business house in
Si dney ; and certainly few men could have
gone about such an undertaking in a more
spirited and systematic way, and fewer still
could have commanded such success in so short
a time. The splendid premises comprising a
portion of the lower part and an extensive
area of the upper part of Kidman’s Build-
ings, Market and George streets, were secured, as
is already known, and a superb photographic
establishment made out of them-with expansive
waiting and dressing rooms, operating and print-
ing galleries, &c. Mr. Tuttle was about the first
to bring into use in Sydney a grand passenger lift,
driven by a beautiful gas-engine, which lift con-
veyed passengers withferery despatch to the wait-
ing-rooms on the top of the lofty structure.
Within the last few weeks, Mr. Tuttle has executed
extensive alterations at the basement, which vir-
tually form, at the one time, both an attractive
entrance and a grand gallery ot art. A visitor to
the establishment now enters from the street to a
wide handsome portieo or vestibule, where are
displayed, on easels, or in handsome frames on the
walls, the different works in the photographic art
executed by Mr. Tuttle himself and his brilliant
staff of assistants. It is certainly one of the
grandest shows in all the colonies, and goes to
prove that Sydney now ranks with the very first
cities in the world in the higher branches of the
photographic art. We advise a visit to all who
care to encourage downright excellence and
enterprise.*
“ Orthodoxy with trimmings” about de-
scribes the religious attitude of many of the intel-
lectual but prudential among the clergy of to-day.
Like certain theologians who have made much
stir in Australia, they reject the essentials of dog-
matic Christianity, yet try to wriggle out of the
temporal inconveniences of frank acknowledg-
ment of the consequences of their negations.
Henry Ward Beecher is among these ecclesiastical
trimmers, who run with the orthodox hare and
hunt with the Freethought hounds. In a letter
dated July last, Beecher thus befogs—“ defines,”
tie calls it-his theological position:—” I know that
I am orthodox and evangelical as to facts and sub-
stance of the Christian religion; but equally well
I know that I am not orthodox as to the philosophy
which has hitherto been applied to those facts. I
am a cordial Christian evolutionist. 1 do not
agree, by any means, with all of Spencer—his
agnosticism—nor all of Huxley, Tyndall, and their
school. They are agnostic. I am not, emphati-
cally. But I am an evolutionist, and that strikes
at the root of all mediaeval and orthodox modern
theology—the fall of man in 'dam, and the in-
heritance by his posterity of his guilt, and, by con-
sequence, any such view of atonement as has been
constructed to meet this fabulous disaster. Men
have not fallen as a race—men have come up. No
great disaster met the race at the start. The
creative decree of God was fulfilled, and any
theory of atonement must be one which will meet
the fact that man was created at the lowest point,
and, as I believe, is, as to his physical being, evolved
from the animal race below him; but, as to his
moral and spiritual nature, is a son of God, a new
element having c n me in in the great movement of
evolution at the point of man s appearance. My
lire is drawing* to an end. A few more working*
years only have I left. No one can express the
earnestness with which I feel that in the advance
ot science, which will inevitably sweep away such
rubbish from the belief of men, a place maybe
»£ U n d v, for » higher spirituality, for a belief that
science, and its top in the
sunlight of faith and love. The above means a
lot, but is too cleverly put to permit of the old
man being cornered. Rats are vermin, but their
movements are sometimes extremely significant.
Now that the clerical rats are scurrying about the
rottenship of an effete theology, it won’t be long
before the men will come out. Some of the wisest
men are out already.
Two heads of department at the Town Hall
on sick leave now. Alleged that they’ve been much
harrissed lately.
Freeman, not without humour, points out
that Windeyer snorted as President of the im-
peached School of Arts, being under the circum-
stances privileged not only to snort but to com-
municate an imputation of base motives without
one tittle of evidence. If Freeman doesn’t mind,
it will be called up for contempt, and snorted upon
ex banco.
The Queenslander of December 1st says:
“ At the Ballarat City Police Court, on 16th instant,
a young servant girl, in giving evidence, admitted
that she sometimes went to three balls in a week,
and generally without the permission or know-
ledge of her mistress.” This would seem to Indicate
that Ballarat Biddies have rather a gay old time of
it. But there is a material discrepancy in the
Queenslander’s statement which it would be just
as well to have cleared up. What we want to
know is not how many balls per week these festive
slaveys attended, but how the Queenslander
managed to get hold of this particular police-court
item fifteen days in advance ?
Mrs. Parnell (of
Sydney) claims to have
discovered a method of
successfully treating
auriferous ores, which
have hitherto either de-
fied successful treatment
or left no margin of pro-
fit when other methods
were applied The patent
rights obtained by her
for N.8. Wales, she has
sold to a company which
is about to raise capital
for the purpose of prac-
tically applying the dis-
covery. Should it be
successful, N. S. Wales
offers a vast field for its
application. Beside auri-
ferous pyrites, much of
the antimony ore found
in the colony is rich in
gold, which is never ex-
tracted. We have seen
antimony ere sold for £10
a ton, while each ton con-
tained from 3 to 5 oz. of
gold. Indeed, it is not
too much to say, that if
Mrs. Parnell’s method be
as cheap and eflicacious
as it is represented, the
mining industry of the
colony will receive the
impetus which it at pre-
sent sadly needs.
The first Manly re-
gatta eventuates on this
Saturday. There are but
rwo entries for the 24 ft.
open-boat race—the Sea
Breeze (Mr. H. Prince)
and Adelphi (Mr. Pitz-
hardinge). Some of our
so-called gentlemen ama-
teurs, owners of boats of
this description, would
not compete fora trophy,
but required a money-
prize, also demanding
that the entrance-fee
should be reduced from
20s. to 10s.; but the com-
mittee very properly de-
clined to accede to either
request. Heats far the
Village Gift were rowed
off on Saturday and
Monday last. The first
was won by Mr. Metcalfe
(40B>.), Mr. Underwood
(20B>.) 2; the second by
Mr. Dobson (55fi>.), Mr
Ward (feather) 2; Mr. Joe
Cohen also competed, but
unfortunately fouled,
thereby spoiling his
chance. Mr. Joe Cohen’s
style is phenomenal and
inimitable, and calcu-
lated to excite grave ap-
prehensions on the part
of our professionals. The
Western Monarch will be
the flagship on Saturday.
The reason why the
Press wasn’t allowed into
the Convention is now
quite clear. It was that
the delegates might bo
able on their return to
their several colonies to
tell lies without fear of
contradiction. On Mon-
day evening, while the
Honorable Whitaker
(N.Z.) was declaring in
Sydney at the Speaker’s
banquet that they had
“ been in this Conference
unanimous,” the Honor-
able Victorian Premier
was pointing out at a
** Convention Banquet”
held in Melbourne that
the bald unanimity
attained by the Conven-
tion was the result of
much battling, and that it
was only in (he heat
of such battling (the
caloric being sup-
plied by the Victorian
Service) that the sleepy
chill N.S.W. delegates got
thawed into acquies-
cence. Following Service
at the Melbourne ban-
quet came Atkinson, who
averred that he had
never shared the terrible
doubts with which his
friend who had just
spoken had gone up to
the Convention. Thus
each delegate takes to
himself all the credit (?)
of the unanimity. Had
the reporter been con-
vened along with the
delegates we should have
known whom (of the
latter) to believe. As it
is, one is obliged to divide
each delegate’s deliver-
ance by the square root
of his vanity—in every
case a mighty heavy dis-
count.
For inventing a novel and yet an innocent,
and a healthy, sort of recreation it takes a lot to
lay over the boys of Milltown, Bathurst. There
are two or three old cemeteries near Milltown, and
many of the graves are so knocked about that the
general appearance of the place would remind one
forcibly of the prophet Ezechiel’s vision of bones
Sunday afternoon is the favourite time for the
fun, and as soon as a sufficient number of players
arrive, sides are picked, each gentle youth arms
himself with a thigh-bone, the skull of a defunct
alderman is selected for a ball (on account of its
thickness), and then an excited game of hurling is
commenced. Other youngsters of a less boisterous
disposition stick up a number of shank-bones on a
coffin-lid, and armed with a skull a piece, proceed
to enjoy a friendly game of skittles, while others
whose religious training forbids them to take part
in any amusement on the Looard’s Day, poke a lot
of deceased heads on poles, and march about with
them yelling like mad, in a sort of Boyne-Water-
Orange-Lodge procession. This gives the Papists
the needle at once, and a free fight, in which skulls
ribs, thigh-bones, &c., are freely used, ensues ; and
before night sets in, the way things are mixed
would lead any one to predict that some parties
will have a difficult job to sort out their skeletons
in time for the general resurrection.
The Military Trouble.
Sandy (loq.).—I must keep this ©Id flooster away from the game ’un.


8
i&SHBAlS
mm
AND
'tk'*
CHEST AFFECTIONS
•.j
ALL
13*
&
THE HARWOOD
Fibre Chair Seating,
Possessing all the qualities of a perfect seat, viz.;
Strength, Durability, Base, Beauty, Cleanliness
and Cheapness.
THIS CHAIR SEAT is made from the strongest
known fibres and a perfectly waterproof
cement, and after fifteen years’ constant use, we
can speak positively as to its merits. It cannot
split or check, neither will exposure to sun or rain
affect it.
Awarded Gold Medal at the late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
For RE-SEATING it is unrivalled. In every
house, store and office, are chairs with seats broken.
Any person can re-seat and make as good as new a
chair that is otherwise worthless, at a very trifling
expense.
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE FOR HOME USE.
Agents Wanted in Every District.
From £3 to £5 a week can be made by any smart
man or boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
82 CLARENCE STREET.
EAU DE COLOGNE.
4711. 4711.
ESTABLISHED 1792.
Gold Medal, Moscow, 1872.
Prize Medal, Yienna ; 1873.
nnHIS EAU DE COLOGNE, so favourably
1 known to the Australian public during the
last 35 years, obtained at the last Philadelphia
Exhibition the PRIZE MEDAL, and FIRST
PRIZE Sydney International Exhibition, for its
superior sweetness, strength, and invigorating
qualities, excelling all other competitors.
It has become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the
ELITE OF EUROPE.
The large and constantly increasing demand for
the genuine 7411 EAU DE COLOGNE, not only in
Europe, but also in North and South America,
India, and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number 4711 changed into 7411,1147, 4117, &c., &c.
The real genuine article, which carried off the
Prize Medal at the Vienna Exhibition, is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue and gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711-
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pitt-
street, Sydney. To be had at the principal Per-
fumers, Druggists, and Storekeepers in town and
country.
IV. H. Ariell and Co.’s Agencies.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’Sprize Biscuits, Canter-
bury, Normanby, and Christmas Family Cakes,
Plum Puddings, Mincemeat, Self-raising
ASrated Flour, Infant’s Food, Treacle and
Golden Syrup.
EXCELSIOR STILLS.—Superior Victorian Oat-
meal and Pearl Barley.
DILLON & BURROWS’ prize assorted Confec-
tionery.
J. KITCHEN & SONS, No. 1 Mottled and Toilet
Soaps.
J. F. M'KENZIE & CO.’S Coffee, Mustard, Cocoa,
Tea, in and Ub. packets ; dressed Rice,
and Patent Groats.
HUNT & CO.’S Prize Baking Powders, Adelaide
Jams Paper Bags, &c.
343 and 346 KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER OF PITT AND PARK STREETS.
JAMES PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind all old customers and the
Sublic generally that he has a large assortment of
•rawing, Dining, and Bed Room Furniture, also
Office Furniture, all of good quality and reason-
able in price. Inspection solicited.
JEWELLERY, JEWELLERY. JEWELLERY.
CASH SALE.
EXTENSIVE ALTERATION TO PREMISES.
LAMB & FAIRFAX, 23 Hunter-street,
beg to inf u m their customers and the public that
they are now offering their carefully-selected
Stock at a Reduction of 25 per cent.
Five Shillings in the Pound taken off plain marked
previous prices.
N.B.—As Christmas is close at hand, the opportu-
nity should not be missed of purchasing intended
gifts.
The gundagai herald,
Pastoral Gazette & Farmers’ Chronicle,”
With which is incorporated the
TEMORA HERALD & MINING JOURNAL,”
Published every
WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
The popular paper of the district.
W. H. L. BAILEY, Proprietor.
Theatrical Job Printing, and box office for
Assembly Hall.
REGISTERED BRAND.
Foster ’s Bugle Brand.
Christmas Season, 1883-84.
GEO. ROBERTSON
Begs to announce
THAT HIS MAGNIFICENT STOCK
CHRISTMAS
AND
NEW YEAR'S CARDS
FOB THE COMING SEASON,
IS NOW OPEN FOR SELECTION.
GEORGE ROBERTSON,
361 George-street.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG Is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
smoke a deeent Tobacco like the favourite LION
n irn«T7 OlTnOVl Al* mid 1
moke a aeeent -L'onacco ukb iub mvuuiire '
’OBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
nth a moderate price.
HEYDE, TODMAN & CO.,
YORK STKkKT. SYDNEY
HR- TIGHT SHOW CASE COMPY.,
67 GEORG hi STREET WEOT.
Air-tight
SHOW k
CASES
AT
LONDON
PRICES.
ontractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
SHOP,
IFF1CE,
AND
r
otel-bar
ITTERS.
pUBLIC NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 483 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
OR. TWO DOORS NORTH OF OLD 8H(»'
L
cr\
8 COLLEGE STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
ARTIF1CAL TEETH on the most approved Eng-
Ish Principles, Fitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastlca-
aon, Natural Appearance, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping, Scaling, and Extractions skilfully
performed
ESTABLISHED 1837.
FOWLER’S POTTERY and
BRICKWORKS, <
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and Magazines received by
every Mall.
ROYAL ARCADE. 4fl6 GEORGE HT.. SYDNEY.
THE AUSTRALIAN
Diamond Drill Company.
CONTRACTS will be undertaken by the above
Company to bore any sized holes, vertical or
horizontal, up to
3 INCHES, OR LARGER IF REQUIRED,
to any depth, at a reduction of 35 PER CENT
BELOW ANY PREVIOUS CHARGE.
The Company, in all cases, will find their own
fuel and water for drilling purposes, and will make
no charge for loss of diamonds or wear and tear on
plant, and will also provide workmen engineers, &c.
The new duplex barrel, introduced into the
colony by Mr. J. Coghlan, will be used free of
charge to persons searching for minerals.
Mr. Coglan has every confidence, from his prac-
tical knowledge of the Diamond Drill, that he will
be able to give general satisfaction, as well as quick
despatch to all orders addressed to the
Temporary Offices, 311 George-street.
JOHN COGHLAN,
General Manager, pro. tern.
m
m
C'_
I
m
GUARANTEED -FIVE YEARS OLD.
POTSTILL AND MALT TVHISKY,
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALE ALE.
JAMES YOUNG, Sole Agent,
No. 9 CHANGE ALLEY.
ADAME WEIGEL'S
Paper Patterns
of
Dresses, Mantles, &c.,
and
Weigel’s Journal of
Fashions,
which contains the latest styles, are sold by the
following agents
George Slater, Stationer, 39 Oxford-st., Sydney
Mrs. Beales, Fancy Repository, Regent-st., Redtern
Mrs. T. H. Griffiths, Milliner, 335 King-st., Newtown
Mrs. C. Chapman, Fancy Repository, Church-st.
south, Parramatta
Principal Retail Office:
161 KING-STR PIET (near Elizabeth-*!.), Sydney.
Schweppes Mineral Waters,
as supplied
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN AND ROYAL
FAMILY,
CAN be obtained of the principal Hotel-keepers,
Wine Merchants, and Chemists throughout
the colonies.
SODA-WATER, LEMONADE, GINGER ALE,
POTASS, LITHIA (for gout) SELTZER,
TONIC, MAGNESIA WATERS.
51 BERNERS-STREET, LONDON;
58 MARGARBT-STR BET, SYDNEY.
WRIGHT,HEATON&CO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE:
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.8.W.;
Goulburn
Bowning
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rock
Culcairn
Cowabee
Narandera
Hulong
Carrathool
Hay
Western District, N.8.W.;
Capertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromlne
Nevertire
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblln
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
Northern District, N.8.W.:
Morpeth
Gunnedah
N arrabri
Walgett
Brewarrina
Tamworth
Uralla
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby
South-Western Line:
Yeulba
Cambooya
Central Line:
Rockhampton Capelia
Bogantungan Comet
Emerald
Northern Line:
Townsville Ravenswood Junction
Charters Towers
Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
WH. M'CULLOCH ft 00., LIMITED.
pr Agencies in all parts of the world.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have yourUmbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Tfetween
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
cuted.
’MBRELLAS
RE-COVERED.
The B EST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
Champagne
Heidsieck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS & Co., London.
Sole Agents for Heidsieck & Co., Reims.
BLEND
[trade]
[MART,
Ai
/COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.-This is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
A. GORMAN,
Late of the Telegraph Hotel, Inverell,
HAS OPENED THE
‘ ClstrerLd-oia.,’
Comer of ELIZABETH & PARK Streets,
And which he intends to keep aaaflrsW lass Hotel.
A G. hopes, by strict attention to Business, to
gain a share of their PATRONAGE. \ ISTTORS
will find this surpasses most of the leading
HOTELS for ACCOMODATION and every CON-
VENIENCE ; and, as it overlooks HYDE PARK, it
must necessarily be WELL VENTILATED.
SUITES of ROOMS for FAMILIES,
as per agreement.
HOT and COLD WATER BATHS.
PORTER In Attendance Day and Night.
It is not necessary to mention the quality of the
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, &e. &c„ as he is, and al-
ways has been. noted throughout the COLONIES
for selling nothing but the verv best
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £410
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS.
Corn shelters
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
&c. &c. &c.
HEBBLEWH1TE & CO.!
416 GEORGE STREET.
DINNER,
ONE SHILLING. Ap
4
O
%
►3
*
EC 2
o
o
e
o
%
*
*
PITT STREET,
& NEXT TATTERS ALL'S.
Ail Heals One Shining.
J, 0. GREEN FIELD, fttUFUlTOB.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. Ling Roth has written a book to prove
that the more Indian coolies imported into Queens-
land the better for the whites. Stinking fish, Ling!
Quoth M‘Elhone: “The Lord looks after
the poor.” Now, who looks after the rich ? Well,
Mac says he himself is rich, and he ought to know.
J. B. Stiffe, late of Melbourne, was the
author of London Punch’s “Advice to People
about to Marry—Don’t.” He got £5 5s. for that
one line.
The Emperor Tu Due of Annam used a
pond in the Palace grounds as Treasury. He en-
closed his surplus treasure in hollow logs, which
were flung into the pond. A Humber of croco-
diles tenanted the pond. The advantage of this
plan is obvious. The crocodiles never bet on the
Derby, or gave oyster suppers to ballerines.
The Michigan State Legislature have
recently passed a law providing that a man may
have his will admitted to probate before his
«'eath. Persons interested must then or never
question the testator’s sanity. Were such an
idea mooted in the N.S.W. Assembly with what
floods of ridicule would the attorney M’s.P.
receive it! and yet, for all that, there’s a savour of
practical reform about it.
Verily, the lines of the Victorian legis-
lator are cast in pleasant places. In the Ballarat
district—says the Melbourne Herald—it is quite
a common occurrence for a train to be pulled up
opposite the residence of one of the law-makers,
and within 2 miles of a station, in order that the
legislative legs may be spared the fatigue of walk-
ing home from the station. On the same principle,
no doubt, a train running in the other direction
immediately eases off, if hailed by an honorable
member’s umbrella.
The writer of the statement alleged to
have been made by Robert Francis Burns (the
Victorian gentleman who used to kill his mates
and then chop their heads off with a view to pre-
vent identification), just previous to his execution
at Ararat for the murder of Forbes, to the effect
that he had “ cooked eight, altogether,” appears to
be substantiated by investigations that have been
made subsequent to his decease. It js satisfactory
to find that Robert did not crown his long career
of crime with a deliberate untruth.
Nathan, A.D.C., is alleged to have fancied
himself the fit man to succeed that sturdy old
veteran, the late Captain Zouch, as superintendent
of N.S.W. police. Police promotion should go in
the force. But it musn’t be thought that we
object to the gallant lieutenant, who is really a
good fellow, getting promotion. In fact, we hope
to hear of his advancement by Gussy, to the
position of Lord Chancellor’s Chamberlain to the
Right Honorable His Excellency’s Private Secre-
tary to the Deputy-Judge-Advocate-General of
the Vice-regal Fowlhouse. But this is only our
little joke.
The other day, St. George .>rowne, well-
known in the Far North as a jolly drover-butcher,
who stands over six feet in his stockings, was
dining at a N.Q. hotel, in company with a diminu-
tive bank clerk, also named Brown. The two
were strangers to each other. In course of con-
versation the minor, or rather B flat, happened to
be addressed as “ Mr. Brown ” by someone pre-
sent. The six-foot Browne, thinking himself the
man wanted, made answer; but on being informed
of his mistake, he good-naturedly remarked that
as his was a very uncommon name be thought
himseli “ the only Brown-’un ” present. Where-
upon little Brown, with considerable hauteur,
begged to inform him, that He spelt His name
with a final E. “ Indeed I ” quoth Big Brown—" in
that case I must say you’re the smallest Browne
with an E I’ve ever met.”
Moncure D. Conway took his departure
and his “intellect” back to Europe by the R.M.S.
Indus, so the Southern hemisphere has relapsed,
once more, into the same condition of mental
darkness in which Moncure found it, and “ deep
thinking” is at a discount.
The advent in Sydney of Colonel Ike
Austin inspires this par. Frank Frayne, the
American trica-shot, appears to have a rival in
Charles Wallace, who has lately been appearing at
a Boston theatre. Wallace, at a hundred feet, can
remove a coin from between his wife's teeth with
a revolver, and, no doubt, if he continues that
game long enough, he will succeed in removing
Mrs. W also. Frank Frayne, you may remember,
used to tire over his shoulder (the mirror trick)
and dislodge an apple from a girl’s head, in the
play of “ Si Slocum.” It is just about a year since
“ Si Sl> cum’s ” rifle misbehaved itself, and the
bullet Intended tor the apple took refuge instead
in th© brain of the young girl, who was sustaining
the character of Mrs. Si Slocum, and whose actual
marriage with Frayne was shortly to have taken
place. That sad business occurred in Cincinnatti,
and Frayne, of course, had to stand a formal trial,
at which he vehemently declared his intention of
withdrawing “ Si ” from his repertoire. The
recollection of the “ Cincinnatti catastrophe ”
should certai ly deter Mr. Charles Wallace from
running the risk of losing his “old woman ” in the
same way that Frank Frayne lost his girl.
The Rev. Dr. Begg, the recently deceased
bigoted Presbyterian who tought against such
vanities as organs in churches, and held theatres in
the holiest detestation, wasn’t particularly
successful in training up his children to orthodoxy.
But perhaps that’s because the devil, finding he
couldn t get hoid of the old gander, went for the
goslings. Walter Bentley, the actor, is old Begg’s
son; and oh I it was gall and wormwood for the
“old man” when his olive branch organized a
dramatic company and played through the Scotch
towns. No doubt a copy of Begg’s sermons
delivered at that time would provide first-rate
fiery reading. Bentley belongs to the “Irving
school’’ of actors, and his first London hit was as
Clarence in the celebrated Lyceum production of
Richard III. The Lyceum veision being Shake-
speare’s (and not Colley Cibber s “ hash,” as pre-
sented by Barry Sullivan and the old school) gave
Clarence a chance of scoring, and in the “ dream’’
Bentley showed an intensity that put his reverend
father s most vigorous efforts into the shade. The
sons of clergymen, when the screw is put on too
tight at home, are very apt to turn “ heretics” and
take to the stage. Being surfeited with virtue in
their youth, they come to hold it cheap, you see,
and try “sin” instead.
Tennyson is to be created a Peer. We are
deecedly sorry for him. We should have thought
he'd hav been above accepting any such question-
able honour—especially at the present time, when
it is pretty safe to be add that t was conferred
upon him not so much as a recognition of his
genius as of his flunky-latria. As Heaven accord-
ing to Pope) is won by violence of song, so titles
are won now-a-days by servility of invocation.
Had Alfred never hymned “ Albert the dood” and
consented to hymn “John Brown the better,” it
is very questionable whether he would have been
selected by the Empress-Queen for the honours of
the laticlave. A quarter of a century ago, when
he was in the zenith of what powers he ever pos-
sessed, he might without discredit have accepted a
Peerage in the hope of being of some service to the
“Crowned Republic” in the House of Lords. To-
day, when in his dotage, with the hisses which
greeted his latest dramatic fiasco ringing in his ears,
he must feel, il he still j etaiu any spark of self-
respect, that the barony, or visoountship, or earl-
dom which his Sovereign has tendered him is not
a homage offered to the Poet of whilom broad
intelli ctual sympathies, but a tinsel reward paid
to the skilled versifier who pandered to her
Alberto-mania. S
The Earl of Beaconsfleld called the doctrine
of Reciprocity a mere musty phrase. So it is, in
as far as some people can be got to understand it.
But it lies under a lot of things, and works up
through them, and sometimes exhibits a pictur-
esque front that proves it to have, at bottom, a
sensitive principle of vitality. Anyone doubting
this, had only to board the R.M.S. Indus, which
sailed up Hobson’s Bay, on the 6th instant, bound
for London. There you would behold, near the
companion-way, the great Moncure Conway, “ the
brightest intellect we have had for some time in
th s Southern hemisphere.” He has the eternal
note-book in his hand, and is jotting. Possibly he
is totting up his haul. But there, with his back to
the funnel, is another great man—Mr. John MTn-
tyre, the member for Maldoh (Yict.) Now, the
reciprocity works in this wayMr. Conway came
from London to raise the wind in Australia, and
Mr. MTntyre is leaving Australia to raise the wind
in London. There are some mines at Maldon
wanting development, and Mr. M'lntyre proceeds
to collar the capitalists. We think the instance
illustrates very well reciprocity in a state of iutel-
ligihle activity. In fact, we cannot see, unless it
be regarded in a very narrow sense, how it is a
musty phrase at all.
Rosebery, at the banquet tendered to him
last Saturday, enunciated the abysmal truisms that
the unmarried man who answers for any woman
is an ass, and that the married man who answers
for any woman other than his own wife is not only
an ass, but may find himself involved in the
meshes of the law. So far as “The Countess of
Rosebery and the Ladies ” were concerned, Rose-
bery could only answer for his wife: as for “The
Ladies,” he must leave it to Mr. Burdett Smith to
respond on their behalf. Was ever Burdett, or
any other man, more neatly invited to set himself
down an ass ? The subtle innuendo in the invite
appears to have been altogether too neat for
Burdett’s comprehension. All he could grasp was
that an Earl had left him the task of responding
for the ladies; and so, with every curl on full
twist, he went for the bunch of carrots which the
head of the house of the Primrose had set before
him; answered as a bachelor for a lot of women,
and so (Apropos of the first of the two above-
quoted Rosebery truisms) clinched his political
reputation. By the way, we find that Lord Rose-
bery, according to his own statement, has “ a
wife. The great majority of our magnates
haven’t wives. They don’t marry wives, or
women. They marry “ ladies.”
“Some men has money, and hasn’t ex-
perience, and some men has experience but hasn’t
money,” said a great proverbial philosopher on a
specially-inspired occasion. We meet with illus-
trations of it now and aga'.n; and when we do, we
find a certain amount of sad interest in watching
how the man who has not the experience “ parts ”
to the man who has. Silas Harding owned a fine
block of country in the western district of Vic-
toria, and the Board of Land and Works wanted to
run a railroad that way. They ran it, and Silas
swore that a piece of his property was irremedi-
ably damaged. The Board offered compensation,
but Silas wouldn’t have it. Then it was agreed to
submit the matter to arbitration. The arbitrators
decreed a couple of hundred pounds. But Silas
kicked again. It went into the law courts, and
Silas paid the lawyers liberally all round, but a
conscientious jury came in with a verdict for only
£189. This was worse still; so Silas delved into h a
bank account, and had it all tried over. This other
jury, after careful deliberation, raised the com-
pensation to £223. This was nearly £40 of a
stretch, and although it cost Silas about £300, he
judged that by keeping at it the juries would go
on stretching till they reached his ideal figure. So
he kept at it, and last week he appeared before Mr.
Justice Hlginbotham and a special twelve. The
special twelve stretched to £249 5s. 9d. But the
deuce was in them, for they found that the rail
had benefited the remainder of the property to
the extent of £591, so that it was Silas who was in
debt to the Board. Now, Silas has moved to set
this verdict aside also. “ Some men, &c.”
A man who, at the end of many years,
makes up his mind that his future life “is likely
to be a public one,” often finds himself, as he
looks into the mirror of his country’s regard
seriously and oppressively handicapped, if the
&arty he leads be weak. There are things which a
ighly civilised community is always ready to
condone. Infidelity in word and act, hypocrisy in
deed and thought, chicanery in religion, cozening
in politics, adulteration in trade, embezzlement in
finance, are, none of them, unpardonable, pro-
vided due attention has been paid to external
decencies, and due submission accorded to consti-
tuted authority. A man may become Speaker of
an Australian House of Representatives, though
he is out-at-elbows and down-at-heels in ever so
many virtues, if only his “loyalty ” is untarnished,
and he holds by the skirts of a strong party. But
impulsiveness is always an indiscretion, and indis-
cretion is always a cumulative crime : and the mgn
guilty of it, if he ally himself with a weak party,
will, if his future life “ is likely to be a public one,
find that the ghosts of the past cannot be allayed.
The letter which Mr. Thomas Walker, the head of
the Melbourne freethinkers, has despatched by last
mail to the Chief of the Toronto Police, is a pain-
ful effusion. The lecturer offers to submit himself
for trial for an alleged crime of ten years ago.
This is right. He ought to have done it long since.
But what we think we see is that those vv ho have
sprung this ghost on him, and have laboured to
hang its shadow over the vestibule of his public
life, would have been decorously silent if Thomas,
instead of being the champion of a weak cause,
had held on by the well-brushed coat-tails of a
strong one.
The fact that Tennyson is reported to
have accepted a peerage offers reasonable grounds
for the beliet that Alfred has turned out some-
thing uncomonly good for John Brown’s mauso-
leum. One of our staff poets proceeds lightly to
tune the harp ; —
THE POET’S DREAM.
I have bade good-bye to sadness.
And my pale poetic face
Wears a look of hopeful gladness
As I “ mouch” about the place,
While my heart so high is beating
Tnat my very shirt-fronts thrill.
And I have to keep repeating—
“ Little flutterer, be still I”
Now we poets, who for ages
Have been chilled by cold neglect,
And have never earned the wages
Which true genius mignt expect,
Seem at last, I’m pleased to mention.
To be rightly understood,
And to meet with more attention
Than I ever thought we should.
I, myself have heard my lyrics,
Which all pulses should have stirred
Put aside as “ mere hysterics,”
And pronounced to be absurd;
But at length the vexing trials,
* Which so long I have endured
Are no more -for Fortune smiles,
And my status is assured.
For it seems our country’s waking
To our claims for just reward.
And now even thinks of making
Of the Laureate a Lord ;
So, of course, as some requital
For my labours, ’twill be hard
If they don’t give me a title
Like the other noted bard.
Some interesting details, furnished viva
voce to a gentleman by Professor Denton’s sous,
we condense from the Newcastle Hehald.
Sherman and Shelley Denton, with their father
Professor William Denton, went to New Guinea
IQ the missionary schooner Ellangowan fro t
Cook town. On arrival at Port Moresby, they
found the resident missionary enjoying life a good
deal more than the Christian labourer is generally
supposed to do in savage countries amid untold
hardships. His establishment was very comfort-
able, living good, and the heathen did the work.
The Dentons at once commenced collecting speci-
mens, and often the natives assisted them, but
they were not reliable. The Professor took the
minerals, insects, &c., and the sons the birds. The
evidences of volcanic action, and the curious
strata, many quite new to the geological world,
excited Professor Denton’s great interest. At an
interior village he separated from his sons to go
with Ai mit's exploring party into a more promis-
ing part for specimens, and it was then that the
malaria, generated by recent excessive rainfall,
struck him down. His sons were only 15 miles
| distant w hen he died, quite unaware of his state.
: Armit’s account of how the great geologist passed
away is deeply interesting. In his sickness Denton
adhered rigidly to the principles of abstinence
which he followed for many years, ref using almost
everything. He would take neither quinine nor
other medicine for the fever, contending that by
refraining from food the system had a better
chance to get itself in order. Hour after hour he
«ot weaker ; weary and sick. The most he could
be induced to take was a little toastwater and rice.
as lor u uiit himself, he dropped senseless on the
track under the fever. That night, he says, “ my
head was opening'and shutting. I felt as if liquid
tire was coursing through my veins. I did not care
whether 1 lived or died.” Then, of Denton,
‘‘ He was terribly weak, he would take nothing ;
Belford also was very ill ; I took plenty of quinine
and chlorodyne, and sank into a doze. About half-
past eight 1 was startled with a rush, and raised
myself with difficulty. Hunter and Belford were
noIdiDg‘ Mr, Denton’s bands. He was In a convulsive
fit, but it only lasted a minute. He was very pale and
emaciated, and seemed to have changed dreadfully
during this one day. Even as t gazed, his breathing
changed, and I heard the death-rattle in his throat.
We looked at each other, but no one spoke. Our
hearts were too full Outside was the drip, drip,
of the falling rain. Per five minutes we remained
thus, gazing in the face of our dying companion,
unable to do anything, and with bitter thoughts
crowding in our minds. A low sigh escaped the
dying man, and his spirit passed away. His end
was peace. We passed a terribie night. In our
midst lay the body, stretched out in all the grim
rigidity of death. As the night advanced, the
little room became filled with a smell, emanating
from the corpse. It was horrible, but we could
not move, nor could we place the body In tho rain.
Sleep was out of the question. The fever was
surging through my vtms and head until I felt
giddy with pain, and all the while that terrible
thing lay there motionless—dead.” Professor
Denton was buried next day ; and a mound of
earth, topped with a few large stones, is ail that
marks the grave of the author, scientist, and social
reformer—a ,master-mind in the realm of intel-
lect. His sons have returned to America to join
their mother, who lives in Massachusetts.
» * ♦
R. N. Collins, of Mudgee, twice mayor of
Gulgong, gone to his own place ; aged 43—A
certain oily philanthropist has been aptly described
as a man who feeds the starving with an empty
spoon, and all the while talks nicely about the
gruel. We may also add that his name is (To be
continued in our next.) Martin, C. J., is very stiff,
on the principle ne sutor ultra crepidam, when a
layman is criticising a lawyer ; and yet we can
remember the time when Martin the politician
would have been immensely wild had any one
ventured to dispute his competence to set squad-
rons in the field, boss an ironclad, or “perform an
operation for the stone.”.. Died last week, Mrs.
Maria Watson, of Transit Hall, Tumut, sister of
the late Captain Hovell (who accompanied Hamil-
ton Hume on his pioneer overland expedition to
Port Phillip, in 1834), aged 83 ; Mrs. Wrightman,
one of the earliest Murruruudi settlers, aged 91 ;
Mrs. Moxham, “ one of the remaining links
between the early days and the present ones of
Wagga;” “and Jimmy the Butcher,” the oldest of
the Bathurst identities, aged 75. Jimmy and his gray
mare—“ Get up, Jenny ’’—were for many a year
historic celebrities of the City of the Plain..
Wilkins, the hardworking Procrustes of the Public
Instruction Department, is about, it is said, to
permanently retire, owing to ill-health W. M.
Mullen, B.A. (Trinity College), takes this year’s
Shakespeare Scholarship (Melbourne University).
— Clement Wragge, F.R6.S., has returned to
Adelaide with a fine collection of astronomical
instruments. The work he formerly did at Ben
Nevis (S.A.) should secure him an appointment
Mr. Oscar de Satge, of Carandotta Station, who got
married in England the other uay, has been work-
ing the oracle all round during his stay at home.
He has now floated a £250,000 company to buy and
stock his Queensland estate No less than seven
well-known citizens died in Noumea in two
mouths. Mr. C. R. Williams, a prominent young
merchant, killed by an accident, left a wife and
three children.. .Moncure Conway left Melbourne,
per Indus, on Thursday.... John Michael Skipper,
solicitor, ex-Police Court clerk (S.A.), artist,
scholar, and literary man, passed in his cheques
last Friday, fetat. 67—Lord Rosebery says Sydney
Is the most delightful place he has seen. All
distinguished visitors say that. But we know we
are delightful; so please tell us something wo
don't know — Thus the Tribune Selector,
Corowa.—Mr. John Davies is a native of Sydney,
and fought his way from the working-class ranks
to the high position recently occupied by him, and
which he will in all probability occupy again.” We
say nothing. We merely lay oar forefinger along
our classic nose — A couple of days before M‘ll-
wraith bent to the Griffith’s storm, Thornloe Smith,
Deputy-Chief-Engineer of Queensland railways,
was granted a year’s leave of absence on full pay
with liberty to retire on a pension of £600—an
action regarded by the present “ins” as savouring
of unsatisfactory engineering... George Neale, a
Parramatta old identity, died last week ; aged 80.
— Mr. James McGuigan, contractor for the Pros-
pect Reservoir works, died last week. He built
the Gong Gong Reservoir, near Ballarat.
• • *
Hicks Pasha was killed on the third day
of the battle, by a lancer of his own force
Seamy side of hero worship. The 84 guineas found
in Nelson's pocket, what time he received his
death wound at Trafalgar, were shown in Lady
Brassey’s case at the Fisheries Exhibition The
late Payne Collier, Examiner of Plays, Shakes-
pearian critic, &c. &c., kept a diary, and in it the
caustic old man of the world made such piquant
personal entries as are to likely to make his journal
the chronique scandaleme of his day and genera-
tion. Here is the sort of thing he was wont to in-
sert in it: “At the Garrick,! was shown a letter
from Alfred Bunn, manager of the Drury Lane
Theatre, to Lord Segrave, resigning to him all
right and title to Mrs. Bunn (late Miss Somerville)
for as long a period as his lordship chose at the
price of five guineas a week—with a re-
duction on taking ker for the season.”
Emanuel Geibel, who is nearly 70 and one of the
sweetest of German poets, is critically ill... At
Simla, on September 1, seventy soldiers sat down
to an Afghan dinner, which is to commemorate
that campaign annually Tourgueniff's will,
which left all his property to his bosom friend, is
disputed. It seems that, though the great novelist
had no wife, he became inadvertently possessed of
a daughter, whose husband now bobs up serenely.
— Princess Beatrice is “ some ” of a musical com-
poser. Her “ Blue-eyed Maiden ” is said to be
pretty, and she has written several Kyries and
anthems—Dr. Charles Mackay, author of “ Cheer,
boys, cheer,” is HI and destitute. The World asks
subscriptions —On her estate in Devon, Lady
Molesworth, entertaining her tenantry at dinner,
responded personally and at some length when her
health was proposed. We know ladies can talk
Charles Lever s daughter is printing a volume of
poems, called “Fireflies.” At the marriage of
Lady Lucy Vaughan, Hanover Square, a curious
incident occurred. The bridegroom, after pro-
curing the bridesmaid's presentation brooches and
the wedding ring, left them in the cab, which
drove off. They were found, at the very last
moment, in the detectives’ office, Scotland Yardl..
Goschen has declined to accept nomination to the
Speakership of the House of Commons, in conse-
quence of detective eyesight. He can't see it
The English officers with the expedition despatched
against the Mohdy were Major-General Hicks, late
Bombay staff; Lieut.-Colouel Hon. j. Colborne,
late 11th Foot; Lieut.-Colonel Coetlogen, lato 70th
Foot; Major Martin, late of Baker’s Horse, South
Africa; Major Farquhar, late Grenadier Guards;
Captain Forestier-Walker, late 3rd Foot; Captain
Massey, late Middlesex Regiment; Major Warner,
Captain Phillips, and Surgeon-Major Rosenberg
The Calcutta mission scandal case, in which Miss
Pigot, late superintendent for the Scottish Ladies’
Association, sued the Rev. Mr. Hastie for 20,000
rupees as damages for defamation, though it re-
sulted in a verdict of one anna for the plaintiff,
was a burst up ol her reputation, inasmuch
as Mr. Justice Norris held that she had been guilty
of adultery with Boboo Kali Churn Banerjee, Dr.
Chundra, and Mr. Wilson Estate of late Sir W.
Morgan sworn under £199,000 in Adelaide Supremo
Court. Sugar makes “sugar.” The “ Chief in
Command ’ of the party to be despatched from
England,by the New Guinea Exploration Company
is Brigadier-General H. R. Maciver, “ late of the
Servian and Greek Forces,” and the “Maritime
Commander” is Captain Kennesley, “late ol the
Argentine Service.” When Greek meets Argefi-
tine in the way of “ biz,” people should think a
few good times before having any transactions
with them This time last year, the Athenians
proposed to erect a statue to the Grand Old Man
by public subscription. So quickly did the coiu
flow in from cneeks in all parts of the world, that
the committee in charge of the scheme, having
more money than they want tor the original pur-
pose, propose to spend the balance in erecting a
second statue to Lord Guildford, the founder of the
Ionian Academy. This is a veritable case of
Danaos et dona lerentes Arthur Wellesley Peel,
M.P. for Warwick, has accepted British Cabinet’s
nomination for Speakership of the Commons
Thus an English sporting journal:—“ Lord Buchan,
after riding the winner of the Corinthian Hunters’
Race at Chandler’s Ford on Tuesday, was heartily
cheered as he returned to scale. His lordship, who
is over 70 years of age, won the race by a short
head.”
Oh! that men should put an enemy into
their mouths to steal away their brains; Wolee’s
Schnapps will produce the most exhilarating
effects without clouding the brain ©r impairing
the faculties.
THE DEEP THINKERS’ DESPAIR.
We, somehow, feel our lives are wrotchei
- nil beg to drop a tear—
We ve lost the “ Grandest Intellect”
That e’er came over here ;
The font of wisdom, bright and pure
(And pet of Mr. Smythel;
WeTe lost, in fact, the great Moncure—
And yet we are alive.
Our bosoms bear a load of pain,
The world seems dark and drear,
We ne’er can meet his like again
Within this hemisphere :
And now we trust that very soon
Grim Death will bring his Scythe
And reap us one line afternoon—
At present we’re alive.
EVOLUTION.


o
P B R A
S E
Lessee and Manager W. J. Wilson
Continued Success of
MR. WYBKRT REEVE
and his Comedy Company.
Bryiiant Audiences. Enthusiastic Reception.
EVERY EVENING, until further notice,
Paul Merritt’s Comedy Drama,
STOLEN KISSES ! STOLEN KISSES !
Immense Success of COLONEL IKE AUSTIN,
assisted by his Manager, Mr. A. Litherland Cunard,
who will appear each evening in their
MARVELLOUS FEATS of FANCY SHOOTING.
Magnificent Scenery and Stage Appointments.
Stage Manager .. .. Mr. Herbert Flemming
Acting Manager .. .. Mr. J. W. Dodge.
Overture at 8: carriages, 10.30.
Box office at Huenerbein’s, til Geo.-st. Tickets
may be obtained at Roberts’s, next Theatre.
Prices as usual.
THEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & Musorove.
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
The Crowning Triumph of the Season 1
THIS and EVERY EVENING,
at a quarter to 8,
PATIENCE I PATIENCE I PATIENCE !
Prices as usual. Box office open from 11 till 4..
General Business Manager, Mr. H. H. Harwood.
AUTHOR, LEADING ACTOR, COMEDIAN, and
MIMIC,
“ P ne of the most versatile artists on the London
stage. —London Dally Telegraph, January 1881.
BEGS to announce that he will make his re-
appearance in MELBOURNE on Saturday.
December 8th, for seven nights only, at the
BIJOU THEATRE, where he will have the honor
? f m P AM^ 1Dg l i £or the . F l RST TIME IN THE
DramaJ eu titl ed, H S'""* 1 ' 0 ”" Do~Mtlo
THE 'WANDERER!
played by him with ENORMOUS SUCCESS in the
old country.”
TEARS, SMILES, and ROARS of LAUGHTER I
The Wanderer! The Wanderer!
The Wanderer!
Tour commences Boxing Night, December 26th.
Mr. Glover’s Repertoire will include several of
Dramas ’ Comedies, Farces, &c. Amongst
“THE WANDERER 1”
“ WEAVING A WEB I ”
THE SPIDER AND THE FLY 1 ”
“ MABEL’S DREAM,” &c.
Managers, requiring a “big draw” and “sure
success, kindly communicate. Theatres required
on Rental or Share.
Address:
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
CAUTION.—Legal proc eedings will at once
he instituted against anyone “ PIRATING ” the
Dialogue, Plot, Scenes, Title, or Effects of any of
my Plays.
INTERCOLONIAL JUVENILE INDUSTRIAL
EXHIBITION, PARRAMATTA, 1883.
THE OPENING CEREMONY
will be performed by
HIS EXCELLENCY LORD AUGUSTUS LOFTUS
at 2.30 p.m., on
WEDNESDAY, 19th DECEMBER.
The OPENING CANTATA will be sung by a
Chorus of 600 Public School Children, assisted by
Miss Marie St. Clair, Mr. J. Moon, Mr. F. Brewer,
and Mr. A. H. Gee.
Words of the Cantata by J. Barlow, Esq.
Music by Herr Hugo Alpln.
Conductor—Herr Huga Alpin.
Special trains to Park Platform on Exhibition
Ground. Excursion rates from all stations. Spe-
cial concession to children.
Arrangements have been made with Mr. C. E.
Jeannerett to run additional steamers, as well as
trams, to the Park gate, five minutes walk to
Exhibition.
The building will, by the kind permission of Mr.
E. S. Cracknell, be lighted in the evening with
electric light.
Admission to the opening ceremony, 2s. 6d.; in
the evening, Is.
CHA8. E. ROWLING,
Hon. Sec.
MUDGEE ATHLETIC
will be held on
car;niv al,
THE NEW SHOW GROUND, MUDGEE,
ON 26th JANUARY, 1884.
Patron: C. W. Lawson. Esq., J.P.
Judges : Dr. Swauston and S. A. Blackman,
Esq., J.P.
Stewards : Messrs. J. Loneragan, J.P.; C. Harper,
W. Wilton, J.P.; F. R. Tindall, S. Tuckerman,
and H. J. Collins.
Referees ; Messrs. E. Daly and A. McLaughlan.
Starter : C. D. Meares, Esq.
Handicappers : Messrs. J. Webster, E. Antill, and
B. Conyngham.
Promoters : Messrs. W. B. Smith, G. H. Cohen, G.
H. Hill, and Edwin Richards.
MUDGEE GRAND SHEFFIELD HANDICAP,
of 100 sovs., open to every ped. in the world:
140 yards ; to be run in squads. Winner, 70
sovs,; second, 15 sovs.; third, 10 sovs.; fourth,
5 sovs. Nomination, 1 sov. only, to reach the
Hon. Secs., Mudgee, before 8 p.m., on Wednes-
day, 2nd January. Acceptance, 1 sov., closes
at 8 p.m. on Monday, 21st January. Handicap
tc be declared on or before Wednesday, 9tn
January,
THE CONSOLATION STAKES HANDICAP,
distance, 125 yards ; for all comers, except the
first and second in the Sheffield Handicap.
First prize, £7 ; second, £3. Nomination, 6s.,
to be received on the ground up to 2 o’clock on
the day of the race ; acceptance. 4s. Handicap
to be declared immediately after the running
of the Sheffield Handicap. Winners of the
Sheffield to receive back tneir nomination fee.
RULES AND REGULATIONS.
No nomination will be received unless accom-
panied by the necessary fee.
Competitors must declare their colours at time
of entry, and give all their performances for the
last two seasons.
Any competitor giving a false name, address,
wrong performance, or otherwise misleading the
handicappers, will be at once disqualified.
G. H. HILL, I Joint
W. B. SMITH, ( Hon. Secs.
ILBEY’S SILVERSTRBAM SCHNAPPS.
VT Gilbey’s Old White Jamaica Bam,
Can be recommended as being of the highest
quality, and superior to any imported.
TUCKMR & C»., Sole Agents,
376 George-atreet, Sydney.
UTlxe -ESellalole S'o.g-g'ies I
NO SECOND CHEAP HOUSE,
22 and 24 CLARENCE STREET, ONLY,
FOR. GOOD GOODS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS & WAGGONETTES,
BACKBOARD WAGGONS, AND EVERT STYLE OF BUGGY.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Clarence-street.
CHINA & GLASS AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
BROKEN SERVICES MATCHED, and made up complete.
CHINA REPAIRED.
Every description of China or Glass Lent on Hire.
T.
CHINA IMPORTER AND DEALER,
Corner of Royal Arcade, Sydney.
'AMES
MARTIN^
383 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
our Lawn Mowers
are all GUARANTEED,
and so confident are we of always being able
to give satisfaction that we will send
our Lawn Mowers on approval.
We make tk©
laws Mower Trade
a Speciality?
and have in Stock all sizes, so the require-
ments of everyone can bo met.
Our Prices range from 30 Shillings,
and any Purchaser who is dissatisfied after
trial, is at liberty to return tiif machine at
our expense.
We Invite Inspection, and eheerfuUy
furnish every information.
REMEMBER. WE GUARANTEE EVERY LAWN MOWER WE
SEND OUT.
3*2KBM1L Li
Ditblioi i War!
All the Stationers in Sydney have declared War. Against WHO ? Why,
EOYAL AECADE,
4=SS Gt-eorg'e Street,
For out-doing them in QUALITY, VARIETY, and CHEAPNESS, in
CHRISTMAS CARDS NEW YEAR CARDS BIRTHDAY PARPR
WORK BOXES WRITING DESKS SCRAP ATPrnvrR CARDS
LADIES AND GENT.’S CARD CAS^ b PERSE|AND KXKRT BOOKsfi^ST^KlRIALS..
Thousands of volumeMsuitable for Christmas^ G Prave/iiook 57
which he is now selling-at less than English and Foreign prices. Call an his
CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR CARDS, AND CHRISTMAS PRESENTS Arcade Palace fo
N.B.—SPECIAL REDUCTION ON ALL GOODS FOR ONE MONTH ONLY.
Christmas Novelties !
EX “LIGURIA.”
LLOYD & HARBOROW, 470 George-St., op. Markets.
Lloyd and Harborow’s Gloves
Lloyd and Harborow’s Hosiery
Lloyd and Harborow’s Boots
Lloyd and Harborow’s Laces
Lloyd and Harborow’s Pichus
Lloyd and Harborow’s Sunshades.
Lloyd and Harborow’s Pans
Lloyd and Harborow’s Perfumery .
Lloyd and Harborow’s Bags, &c. .
The Choicest collection of Christmas Cards in Sydney.
N.B.—THE NEW SHOP, OPPOSITE MARKETS, 170 GEORGE-STREET.
470 George-street.
Opposite Markets.
470 George-street.
Opposite Markets.
470 George-street.
Opposite Markets.
470 George-street.
Opposite Markets.
470 George-street.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LtMlMD)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS.
OFFICES : 42 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Brig-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville evety Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane to Bundaberg, Gladstone, atid
Pott Mackay, every fortnight.
„ Fleet of Steamships:
Buninyong .. 3000 Geelong
1000
1000
1500
900
400
3000
600
Kellawarra ..
Konoowarra
Leura ..
Moreton
Rodohdo
You Yangs ..
1500
1300
600
1200
700
Barrabool
Burwah
Cheviot
Derwent
Edina
Gabo..
♦Balmain
♦ To arrive.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (limited),
43 King Street, Sydney.
ST. LEON’S MAMMOTH TWO CONTINENT
CIRCUS AND MENAGERIE.
Sole (Proprietor, M. ST. LEON} Advance Agent,
H. MAWDESLYj Treasurer, J. MORGAN.
ANNOUNCEMENT TO THE PUBLIC.
The management would most respectfully beg
to inform the inhabitants of Sydney and suburbs
that they have at last secured a suitable piece of
ground in Sydney for the erection of their large
and elegant Marquee, situated in the lower end of
Pitt-street, and directly opposite Robinson’s Coach
Factory, and will make their first appearance in
Sydney on
.SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, December 16,
This talented Company is now the largest and
best that has ever appeared in the Southern Hemi-
sphere, and has earned the plaudits of all when-
ever it has appeared.
EVERYTHING NEW, GRAND, and GLORIOUS.
This Mammoth Millionaire Confederation con-
sists of
150 ARTISTS AND HORSES 150,
together with
A GRAND COLLECTION OF WILD ANIMALS.
Facts speak for themselves, and when we assert
that we have a splendid, talented, and complete
Circus and Menagerie, both in Artists (male and
female), Horses, and Wild Animals, we only state
facts that have been proved and acknowledged
everywhere.
We would most respectfully draw the attention
of the public to the fact that this Company’s stay
in Sydney is limited for a very short season, on
account of other arrangements pending in the
sister colonies.
Remember the locality—Lower end Pitt-street,
opposite Robinson’s Coach Factory.
Of one thing the public may rest assured, that it
will always be gratifying to us to DELIGHT our
PATRONS at any possible cost of money or effort,
and they shall never fail to find at our Exhibition
their money’s worth ten times told.
Walt and watch for the Grand Street Parade on
arrival of this Company, which will take place on
Friday morning next.
The procession is over half a mile in length.
Doors open at 7 o’clock. Overture at 8 precisely.
Carriages may be or dered for 10.15 p.m, A Staff of
Ushers always in attendance.
£For further particulars see display, bills and
future advertisements.
100 GUINEAS. 100
NNIVERSARY SHEFFIELD HANDICAP,
L to be run at
ORANGE,
On the 26th JANUARY, 1884.
ANNIVERSARY SHEFFIELD HANDICAP, of
100 Guineas, open to all comers ; 150 yards; to
be run in divisions ; each man’s running to be
roped. First prize, 60 guineas ; second prize,
25 guineas; third prize, 10 guineas; fourth
prize, 5 guineas.
Nominations, 1 guinea each, to be in the hands
of the hOn. secretaries on or before Saturday, 22nd
December, 1883 ; handicap to be declared by the
31st December, 1883 ; acceptance, 1 guinea, closes
on Monday, 21st January, 1884.
RULES
(which competitors are requested to particularly
notice)
No nomination will be received unless accom-
panied by the entrance fee. Competitors must
give their colours at time of entry, also their per-
formances for the past twelve months. Any com-
petitor giving a false name, address, or wrong
performances, or otherwise misleading the handi-
cappers, will be at once disqualified. The decision
oi the Judges and Stewards to be final and bind-
ing in all cases. The race will be run under the
Sheffield rules.
OTHER EVENTS :
Value, Value,
4610. AMATEUR CUP. 4610.
Distance, 150 yards. Nominations, 5s., to be in the
hon. secretaries’ hands oy the 24th December,
1883. Handicap declared on 31st December.
Acceptances, 5s., closes on the 21st January,
1884.
MAIDEN PLATE,
ONE HOUR GO-AS-YOU-PLEASE,
BOYS’ RACE.
a , , &c., &0 -
See local papers.
Joint,
Honorary
Secretaries.
R. S. NELSON,
R. H. PALMER
T. F. HOLLANDS
V
wl
I
ai
1
nn R.BUHGIS
l/Ul TAILOR..
i Infill II
VISIT R, BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
CHEAPNESS, FIT. AND WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for felt-measuring forwarded to an'
part of the Colony.


Prepared according to the directions o Prof.
E. N. Horsford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY HECOMMBNBBD FOB
DYSPEPSIA, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION.
-MPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA, WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY, &C.
tr No Danger can Attend its Use.
Nervous Depression from Overwork.
Sluggish Circulation and Growing Chil-
dren.
Sandusky, O., May 31, 1880,
I have used your Acid Phosphate and can pro-
nounce it a very valuable addition. I find it use-
ful and beneficial in nervous dyspepsia, nervous
depression following overwork and anxiety, as well
as the gastric derangements. Where there is
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation, a dull,
heavy head, it is of undoubted value. Fast grow-
ing children require this valuable addition.
W. R. PAGE, M.D.
Liver and Kidney Derangements.
Boston, Mass., May 18,1880.
In regard to the Hereford's Acid Phosphate, I
have used it very extensively, and with the most
remarkable success.
I give it In dyspepsia and in all cases where there
is derangement of the liver and kidneys. With
my patients it has agreed wonderfully.
O. G. GILLEY, M.D.
Nerve Tonic.
A. S. Carpenter, M,D., Keene, N.H., says :
“ Hereford's Acid Phosphate is a valuable medi-
cine. I have taken it myself, and for several
years prescribed it for my patients, when suffering
from Indigestion or innervation of the digestive
organs, and always with satisfactory results. It is
a good nerve tonic, and in some cases of morbid
urine, ‘ it acts like a charm,’ producing the desired
result. It is pleasant to the taste, acceptable to the
stomach, and is, in my opinion, an excellent and
valuable compound,”
|Can be borne by the most Sensitive
Stomachs.
Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 1880.
Hereford's Acid Phosphate, in elegance of com-
position, stands unrivalled. It Is pleasant to the
taste, and can be borne by the most sensitive
stomach. Have prescribed it with marked benefit
in indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms an
excellent substitute for Lemon juice, and as such
will furnish a refreshing \lrink for the sick.
A, L. HALL, M.D.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
lv£a,gric Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
“ It Works like a Charm/’
It Is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and museles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches fire. It cures
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Bruises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an internal remedy it tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Goughs, Sore Throat, and Dyp>
theria.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use in
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers In
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported into this country, and have
gained throughou itke colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. J
leather, and the upholstery Is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their finish
BECAUSE they ure each and all built under special
instructions to, and personal supervision of
one of the leading carriage builders in America,
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say they are thb
bbst.
American Carriage Emporium,
WTNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
BARRON .MOXHAM & CO.,
fcoie Agents
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal—“ Patience ” p.8
Opera House—“StolenKisses” lb.
Come, let us start
Our notice empiric I
How shall we start 7
With a Jay 7 with a lyric 7
Severe or satiric 7
Come, let us start I
Time flies—Time’s a crow
Wit h the wings of a swallow.
Time flies—Time’s a crow,
And his croaking is hollow:
And footsore we follow
Time’s flight—Time’s a crow.
We still look ahead.
Poor, short-sighted sinners;
We still look ahead.
Greybeards and beginners—
From breakfasts to dinners,
We still look ahead.
The moral of this
Is, of course, work like thunder.
Poor moral of this I
We work and we wonder,
And die and go under:
Strange moral of this!
As instance: these rhymes
Ought, of course, to be sunny—
As instance these rhymes
Neither fine are nor funny.
This is work for mere money,
As instance these rhymes.
But what would you have 7
We must write if we see lunch.
Yes, what would you have.
For, frugal as we lunch.
We can't always free-lunch;
So, what would you have 7
* • » »
We think we ought to place our notice of
the Theatre Royal first this week, because that
house, we cannot but consider, can lay claim to be,
after the Academy of Music, almost the leading
Thespian temple in the city. We don’t mind telling
you that when V oung Duchey was leasing the
Academy, we were disposed, on account of the
supremely classical nature of the performances
under his control, to give the magnificent theatre
directed by him a prominence that must have,
perhaps, been painful to the feelings of Musgrove,
whose predilection for the severely academic
has been acknowledged and commented upon
throughout the length and breadth of several
hemispheres. It will be consistent, perchance, to
relate that Smileless Georgre has, on the occasion
of our having given Frederick Handstead s
establishment that peculiar prominence which
Red Stockings naturally engendered, exhibited a
pensiveness that was painful. At those times he
made no allusion whatever to the cupboard, and
when encountered in the theatrical pub. adjoining
was always too deep in cheese and reflection to
notice the poor pressman. And it is only but fair
to chronicle that the deeper Mr. Musgrove was in
cheese, the deeper the landlord was in reflection
To the fore, therefore, with the T.R. this issue. *
* * *
“Patience,” then. “Patience,” with
Liddiard as Lady Jane, with Grundy as Calverly,
with Edwin Kelly as Grosvenor [III]; and
especially with Howard Vernon aa Bunthorne.
And quite as especially (we can’t help sometimes
poking a little harmless fun at the dear old medical
boy in Collins-street!) adss Nellie Stewart as
Patience. It is possible that nothing has been seen
anywhere better than Vernon’s Bunthorne. We
believe this, because Vernon amuses us—and it
takes either a very good actor, or a very bad
minstrel to do this. We consider Mr. Vernon to
be an ideal Bunthorne. This may be owing in some
measure to his being, if not toujours, at least
‘frequently often,” Bunthorne in other charac-
ters—and it may not. We can’t say, positively, in
one issue. When we bring out a supplement, or a
poster stating that our circulation is several
millions, you may hear more about it. It is not
too much to state, however, that without Vernon
the present production of “Patience” would be a
grim and spectral pleasantry. Perhaps—and this
is our own experience—the grimmest and most
spectral thing in the world is hash. Well, without
the present exponent of Bunthorne “ Patience ”
would have been hash. It is now operatic stew —
of a by no means—forgive us !—stew-pendous
character.
• • •
Miss Nellie Stewart is not Patience. This
is chiefly, we think, because she is Nellie Stewart.
And she is very nice, indeed. We speak oi her as
we would of pie; but that, we think, is because we
like pie. Miss Stewart’s fault is, we think, that
she wants to act. They all do. Even BandmannI
He wanted to act; and is now doing it, so we hear
(bless him!) at Hobart. But where the trouble
comes in is here. The lady who wants to act
shouldn’t essay Patience. She shouldn’t, really!
She should study her friends—or her aunt, or some-
bod y. Miss Stewart looked very pretty, indeed.
And she sang some of her numbers (why “num-
bers?”) extremely well. And, it is only fair to
state, that the gentleman with the ocular window-
panes in the dress circle appeared much impressed.
W e were impressed also. We will tell you how in
that same poster when several eminent gentlemen,
not unconnected with the Supreme Court of
Amsterdam, have winged their flight to Heaven.
• • •
Miss Fanny Liddiard’s Lady Jane im-
pressed us also. She looked very nice, indeed,
and if her vocal efforts were not always “audible
in the gallery,” this was doubtless owing either to
a conspiracy in the orchestra, or to the spirit of
assertiveness prominent in the picturesque per-
sonage who nightly performs upon the trombone.
Mies Liddiard looked Lady Jane. And when
she had looked it, the hypercritical spec-
tator (we are told} began to wish for
somebody else to take a deal. We didn’t.
We always like to see Miss Liddiard. But we think
we liked her best when she played the Lady
Angela. The rapturous maidens’ chief fault (it
fault they had) was, perhaps, because they were
not rapturous. Miss Maggie Stewart’s deadliest
enemy could not accuse her of rhapsody; and no-
body could make a similar accusation against Miss
Aggie—
(“ Phoebus, what a name
To sound the speaking-trump of future fame I”)
—Miss Aggie Stewart. Miss Lily Forde was droop-
ing to some extent; but she was not able to spread
herself out sufficiently to look like several cling-
ing and yearning vestals. She tried—really tried—
et voild tout.
* * *
Mr. Edwin Kelly — as the successor of
Verdi—in the part of Archibald Grosvenor, was
very good indeed; but what we complain of prin-
cipally is that he looked too young. We don’t
mmd telling you now that we have two fore-
heads—one at the front, and one at the back,
of our head- and that we dislike everything with
the bloom of youth upon it. And when
Edwin said “Yes Patience, I know I am very
beautiful,” we only restrained ourselves by a
a violent effort from throwing something
dangerous. A little more provocation and we
should have slain him with a flower-basket, which
was being tenderly kept by a masher next to us
until Miss Fanny should sing “ Silvered is the raven
hair.”
• •
Mr. Grundy’s Calverly was a performance
of exceeding mildness. We heard a man of small
imagination-and evidently prejudiced-regret
that the Colonel had ever “ put that uniform on;”
but we liked him very much. Our trouble is that
he is not going to play Colonel Calverly till next
Easter. Mr. Woodfleid, as the Duke of Dunstable,
introduced a song of his own. It was an improve-
ment on the song that Beaumont used to sing.
That was a very poor lyric, indeed. What we
wonder at is that.the author of it has been allowed
to live. And we know —or rather have a shrewd
suspicion—that he is still lingering 1 , chiefly, we
think, from the fact of his writing this par.
* * »
The chorus was even, and Harrison had
the orchestra well in hand. By the way, we
wonder what kind of timber the weapon is made
of that he conducts with. Can it be a pine bdton.
But this is mere baton-age.
* V . »
Mr. George Darrell is going it! There is
no mistake about it! The last time we saw him
was when he was in the throes of composition.
He had on a rich brocaded dressing-gown with
bullion tassels, an oriental smoking-cap with a
diamond aigrette ; and standing behind his chair
was Jim Rainford, holding iced sherbets on a
jewelled salver. George was composing his day
bills for the “Sunny South,” with which he opens
at the Opera House on the 23nd ; and as his ruby-
pointed magnum-bonum (33 carat) travelled slowly
over the scented sheet, he would now and anon
smile condescendingly upon James and ourselves,
who were meekly quailing shandygaff in the
dreamy distance. Mr. Darrell, that reminds us
(we don’t mean the shandygaff) relates a curious
thing in connection with the “ Sunny South.” It
was accepted by Mr. Augustus Harris, in London,
on condition that Mr. H.’s name should be an-
nounced as one of the authors. But George
couldn’t see this. He was, you know, a bit of a
glutton in those days. Now, he says, he wishes he
ad yielded to the desire of the gifted Augustus.
Had he done so, he reckons he would have cleared
about £3000 by the piece. That'S what Merritt
made out of “ Youth.” And “The Sunny South ”
js a better play- all things considered—than
Youth.” George is putting his piece on here in
a nobby style, let us tell you. Clint has been hard
at it, and we never see Wilson but he has a streak
of carmine over the left eyebrow. That is to let
a panting hemisphere know that he is too busy,
temporarily, to “set ’em up.” And that’s about
all in connection with the Opera House this week,
except that Wybert Reeve was 17 last birthday,
and Maggie Knight is to be George’s leading lady.
* ♦ *
And of conjurors. We have received from
Professor W. J. Payne (Maryborough, N.Q.), who
is, it seems, a Knight of the Order of the Elephant
(and several other things) a long letter, a pam-
phlet, and exactly 3 yards, 5 inches of press notices.
And curious to state that the letter, the pamphlet,
and the notices are all about one party—Professor
Payne. The Professor appears to be uncommonly
smart, and says (we quote him)“ 1 have many
other novelties, which has (sic.) never been seen
before in the colonies;” a phrase which leads us to
hope that Mr. Payne’s legerdemain is better than
his grammar. And then another wizard, Lieuten-
ant Lorenski, is at Rockhampton; so we are daily
expecting a volume or two of autobiography
from him. Send along! From conjurors to Lon-
don once more. The Alhambra (rebuilt) is about
to open with a fterie by Sims and Clay. Clay and
Giloert won’t collaborate any more. They had a
row over, it is said, “The Princess Toto,” which
was a pecuniary failure. It seems that the com-
poser is of that kind of Clay that is not easily
moulded ; and Gilbert is well-known to be auto-
cratic and overbearing in all in connection with
his work. lie has patched up his dl-agreement,
though, with Mary Anderson, and has not only
given her permission to play Galatea, but is writ-
ing her a new piece—in one act.
* * * *
But you’ll never guess! Whom do you
think, now, is coming to the Gaiety at Christmas ?
Nothing less than Charlie Turner, with the operatic
crowd. And, in reference to a recent par., Fred.
Millis (who goes to New Zealand by the next boat)
writes; “ You say I married one of M’Lean’s Kids.
It would have been more appropriate if you’d
said I’d married M’Lean’s Fox." The fair Emme-
line, by the way, doesn’t go to Maoriland with her
hub. this trip, having to complete an engagement
with Teddy. T. is pensive on the subject, as Mias
Fox has developed into something very clever,
and she is out of her time. An entertainment
will be written for the happy pair shortly. That
means when a person not entirely unconnected
with—say the Witness— is “off it.”
« • » »
And, talking of nice people, Arthur
Rodney and Mrs. R. (another bride and bride-
groom!) are off to Melbourne to join the Majeronis
for a tour. Arthur was, it wdl be remembered,
with the Great Bandmann. And, even then, “ he
was not happy.” Something in the hair, perhaps.
And of another “great tragedian” (Irving), it is
said that, prior to leaving Liverpool, he was the
recipient of “ forty gold pencil-cases, and no
fewer han fifty walking-sticks; while the ladies,
young and old, bestowed on him exactly a hundred
separate pieces of advice on the subject of his
health, how to avoid taking cold, how to cure one
when contracted, how to concoct a gargle, and
how to make a mustard poultice being the
simplest.” As if the great Henry could not
“avoid taking cold” without being told how to
do it!! We avoid taking cold with the simple aid
of a kettle, sugar, and a slice of lemon.
* * * *
Theatricals in Melbourne are dull enough.
The Lyceum (Hudson’s) is shut up, the Victoria
Hall is silent, and the Opera House is trotting out
venerable comicalities. The best success is at-
tained at the Royal, where “ The Silver King ” is
in its thirty-third night, and still drawing good
attendances. Grattan Riggs takes a benefit in
“The Irish Detective ” on Friday night, and then
vacates the Bijou, where in his short visit he has
done nothing to lessen his well-known reputation
Mr. Augustus Glover will bring “ The Wanderer ”
there on Saturday night. In his announcements
it is prominently stated that Mr. Glover was “for-
merly sole lessee and manager of Astley’s Grand
Amphitheatre.” That ought to draw the lovers
of “powerful domestic drama,” of which “The
Wanderer” is said to be a specimen, out of their
blankets.
♦ ♦ *
On Saturday night, “Slthors to Grind”
and “Picnic Portraits,” which latter had been
thrown in during the past week, sliddered out of
the Princess's, and another bunch of Mr. Garner’s
importations seized the stage on Monday. “ Ruth’s
Romance” and “Miriam’s Crime” were both
tendered to a moderate audience. The first a
comedietta, with a couple of sparkles in it, but no
sustained idea, and a lot of running to seed was
new; the latter old. In the comedietta, Miss
Amelia He. bert made her colonial debut. This
lady possesses a good deal of ability. The little
claim that her part made upon anything over
average intelligence she responded to with
alacrity. She is likely to keep a fair place on the
stage. She looks well, walks well, and speaks
well; and if Broughton, who wrote the piece, had
put anything worth saying into her mouth, she
would have been a success.
• •
Mr. Harry Taylor, the second new hand,
appeared as Biles in “ Miriam’s Crime.” He also
has parts. And he was better mated than Miss
Herbert. There is a lot of queer humour in Biles
and Mr. Taylor was fully at home in it. But one
has not sufficient datet for forming* anything like a
general opinion of his power. Miss Amy Crawford,
who had. a minor part in this play, was very good
and Mr. George Leitch as Captain Wilton in the
comedietta was passable. Miss Rosa Towers, who
played Miriam, is “ bouncing” to the front. But
neither the comedietta nor the drama was interest-
ing enough, and it did not increase the interest of
either to heap up both of them on the one night,
A sacred concert of a superior class was
given in the Collins-street Independent Church on
the night of Tuesday last. Miss Holland, with a
talented lady amateur, and several others of good
musical standing, gave selections from Gounod,
Mendelssohn, and other composers. But the chief
interest centred in an Anthem Cantata, composed
by the Rev. Jonea-Hamer, the pastor of the
church. It was an elaborate effusion, comprising
ten parts, and displayed throughout more than
considerable ability. The quintet was extremely
line, and all the choruses were tuneful and im-
pressive. Mr. Hamer deserves to be warmly con-
gratulated, and it is hoped he will not let his talent
die.
* ¥ » *
Yes; we expect so. Mary Anderson, when
asked why she declined to know the Prince of
Wales, replied that she didn’t care to be on visit-
ing terms with people who didn’t know the
family. She is also reported to have said: “An
introduction to the Prince of Wales can do me no
good professionally [I], and I know very well how
e regards actresses generally, and therefore I
must decline being presented to him.” Mary also,
when in New York, proudly exclaimed; “ Though
I am the daughter of a Confederate officer, and
though this may militate against my popularity in
this city, 1 scorn to conceal the fact.” She didn’t
seem to think about her manager. The New
Yorkers didn’t care, as it happened, whether she
, was the daughter of a Dervish I As it is. the Con-
federate officer accompanies her about, and on
treasury days mildly but firmly hold out his little
palm. By the way (we must get out of this I), the
last Confederate officer we knew was a man of
commanding presence and a fine flow of language.
He used to reside in East Fourth-street, N.Y., and
got seven days for stealing pea-nuts. Mary, we
’ are also Informed, lives principally on plover’s
eggs, and her only refreshment between the acts
is St. Jacob’s Oil. Funny, aren’t they, these fairy
tales of Anderson? And, listen. When Sara
Bernhardt is asked why she separated from
Damala, she merely replies: “Ma foi, it y d
des raisons!” and when enquiries are made
of Damala, he shrugs his shoulders and
answers in the purest Parisian—“A strange,
pair of boots.” To quote Mark Twain :—
“ Splendid legend, splendid lie I” And fancy !
“ A Sailor and His Lass ” was produced about six
weeks ago, at Drury Lane, to sncceed “Freedom,”
which was a complete financial failure ; but “A
S. and his L.” is a bigger failure than “ Freedom.”
The piece is by Robert Buchanan (“and Augustus
Harris”), and Mr. H. and Harriet Jay (Buchanan’s
wife, and a fine novelist) play the principal parts.
Think also that George Melville and his Missus
(Miss M. Medway) are in Bathurst, giving “ grand
entertainments ’ (nothing less I); and pause and
think as you read that “ In the Ranks ; or a
Soldier’s Wife,” by Sims and Pettit, has achieved
the greatest success possible at the Adelphi. And,
touching this play, a peculiar incident occurred.
It will be remembered we stated that Mr. Leopold
Jordan claims “The Merry Duchess,” by Sims, is
but a paraphrase of his opera (sold to Holt and
Wilmot), “The Derby Day.” Well, singularly
enough, Mr. M’Kenna, a Chicago journalist, com-
plains that Sims and Pettit s play is identical with
one of his called “ The Soldier’s Wife, ’ and at the
last moment he compelled the authors of the
Adelphi drama to alter their title.
* * •
“The Pirates of Penzance” at the Royal
on Saturday, -with Jimmy South as the Major-
General. You’ll remember him, because he is
“ The very pattern ol a modern Major-General,
Who’s up to things historical, botanical, and
mineral.”
AnJ you’ll also remember D’Orsay Ogden, who
has been showing with varying success every-
where, and who is shortly going to start out with
an original entertainment for fom Who the f@ur
are is a mystery—but not a scale one
*
Miss Alice Sydney Burvett gave her second
pianoforte recital in the Masonic Hah, on Monday
night. The attendance was very small. Miss
Burvett has been extremely ill-advised. She is an
excellent pianiste, and in a concert programme a
couple of solos executed by her would always be
a welcome feature. But Miss Burvett is emphati-
cally not "of the rank among pianists which
entitles her to expect audiences to be satisfied to
accept an entire programme at her hands. Ara-
bella Goddard did not attempt this. Ketten alone
has succeeded in holding audiences by his sole
genius. Ketten is now dead. The effort killed
im. Miss Burvett, although very good, is neither
a Goddard nor a Ketten. She attempted too
much, and in lieu of making, as we believe
she might have done had she been content
to play but two or three selections, a completely
favourable impression, she overtasked her powers
and lowered her average. Several of the compo-
sitions which Miss Burvett performed on Monday
lie well within her powers, had she been content
to devote her full attention to them ; but in
attempting so many, she only succeeded in some.
In the Sonata of Beethoven, which was the first
item on the programme the other night, the light
crisp touch, which should be the feature in the
first movement, was far from satisfactory. But
more faulty still was Thalberg s “ Moses in Egypt,”
in which the theme in the second last variation was
almost entirely lost at times, while the treatment
of the last movement was little short of thumping.
This may have been partly due to fatigue, as the
lady was evidently over-working herself, and thus
did not give herself a fair chance. Gottschalk’s
“Home, Sweet Home” was warmly applauded,
and it is only fair to say that in this solo Mis-i
Burvett exhibited some very neat finger work,
especially in the last variation. Miss Burvett
Eossessess confidence, a good strong wrist, action
rilliant (thought stili imperfect) execution, and a
style which will doubtless improve in years to
come. We wish her every successjn the profession
she has chosen, but would strongly advise her to
give recitals best—at any rate for the present.
* * * *
You shall have it, now, in a heap. Well,
Jordan made, on the whole, a success in his
Howard-Faulish entertainment at Huenerbein’s
Wednesday “ pop,” at the Protestant Hall, and has
been engaged to do a lot of things for ’Arts ’Appy
’Ours, with which he travels as acting-manager,
Mr. Hart has likewise engaged Miss Gladys St.
John (no less I), who is very immense on the
manner. And Lieutenant Rose tells us that the
Dampier-ivFClattherduffy combination have made
a pile during their trip; at Bathurst and Dubbo,
especially getting ’em. There is nothing but level
heels in the company now. And level heels sug-
gest to us—we don’t know why—the Magnets:
Harry Simmonds’ Minstrels at the Victorieral of
Moosic. We can f eelingly recommend this talented
troupe to all who yearn for melancholy of a
marked character. Harry, however, who is on
the door, is cheerful. His reasons for being cheer-
ful are probably locked up in the in the inmost re-
cesses of his poetic soul. And if you had seen
Jim Ramford play in “ The Winning Hazard ”
at the Protestant Hall on Tuesday, you wou'd
have gone home to bed without breaking any of
the crockery. James is great as Jack Crawley.
But then he is always great. We don’t mean
physically, only, but histrionically. “ The Winning
Hazard ” is, we learn, “ a sparkling comedietta,
arranged and introduced by Mr. Jas. H. Rainford.”
What could the greediest spectator require more
than this ? Oh, and before we forget. We have
received a letter with a perfumed enclosure in the
shape of a yellow poster from Miss Blanche Reives,
whose “Mission” appears to be to lecture on
Music.” This monologue, Miss Reives, with
charming modesty informs us, is “ her celebrated
discourse.” Miss R. complains that we made a
mistake in our last issue with respect to the place
at which she was bombarded with boulders. It
was Prospect Reservoir, and not Gundagai. After
this statement on our parts, peace will once again
reign—if not in Europe, at least in Dubbo.
Dr. i.Simms says long noses are cautious;
brown eyes are friendly; grey are calculating and
courageous; blue denote love of change and
progress ; large hands presage fortitude, small
ones inordinate love of the opposite sex. He
holds that a brain may be very large, with little
mind, and cites page 672, vol. 1. of the Medical
Times and Gazette. London, 1882, where it is
recorded that the brain of a stupid negro *"a
murderer, weighed 70 ounces—the heaviest ever
known. Dr. Simms lectures on the Nervous
System and Mind, this (Thursday) evening, at
Temperance Hall. On Friday evening, his last
for ever in Sydney, will be on Love, Courtship, and
Marriage. As Dr. Simms is a funny man, he wiil
no doubt treat love and marriage in a funnv
manner.


The piineiple of the metropolitan water
supply is right in the main.
Skinny Men —“Weils’ Health Renewer” re-
stores health and vigour, cures Dyspepsia
Impotence, Debility' Moses,. Mow & Co., Sydney,
General Agents.
BRIEF MENTION.
Frontages—Corsets.
Back-blocks—Bustles.
A freehold—The waltz.
Cancelled selections—Divorced wives.
Sweets to the Sweet: M‘Elhonechampion-
ins' the Glebe Abbatoirs.
Another change is to take place in the
Victorian Civil Service. A Department of Public
Morals is to be founded, with Mr. B. at the head.
Rosebery thinks that the squatter’s am-
plitude of patriarchal existence is the life of an
Abraham tempered by free-selection. A fair
enough jeu de mot! Somewhat similarly, one might
say that the life of a bona fide selector was that of
an Ishmael tempered by Abraham plus Sarah.
The head master of Wesley College, Mel-
bourne, states that he considers there is a want of
honour and a lack of moral tone among colonial
boys of the present day. Certainly. But the head
master of Wesley College should recollect that
most colonial boys loot forward to becoming
either members of Parliament or missionaries.
A bucolic item. Thus the Bega Gazette:
“ On Sunday, someone wanted to cross Bega River
without moistening his Sabbath patent leather
pumps, caught a quiet cow, and, bestriding old
crumply, came over in triumph.” Why the
Gazette should go out of its way to chronicle so
ordinary a Bega-district performance as taking a
“ cow on the cross” passes comprehension.
Minister for Mines Abbott has declined
to permit an enterprising speculator to lease one
of the sides of Mount Wingen, the only burning
mountain—a mouth of Gehenna—that N.S.W,
possesses. He thinks it should be reserved for
public recreation. Our view is that the whole hill
might profitably be rented to a syndicate of ortho-
dox Methodists with the view of tneir illustrating
Hell fire, the undying worm, and so on.
The chief characteristics of a good soldier
—according to our own David—are good limbs,
a sound stomach, a good eye, and the ability to lie
down in the mud for 24 hours if necessary.” We
have come across corps where the latter attribute
was brought to such perfection that a 48-hours’ oc-
cupancy of the mud plot behind the regimental
canteen was the first rung in the ladder of pro-
motion. We have also known politicians to be
down in the mud.
A publican out West the other day adopted
a rather novel method of collecting a grog-score.
A party had run up “a fiver ” overnight, and at
early dawn “ vamoosed.” The “ boss, however,
was quickly on his trail, and ran him to earth a
mile or so out of town, sitting on a log waiting for
the Sydney coach. The publican went for his
“ quarry” in thorough “ knock-out ” style, and the
latter soon threw up, not only the sponge, but the
price of the fighting rum he had imbibed.
Says a contemporary: “Mr. Wilkins, the
N.S.W. Under-Secretary of Public Instruction,
lately paid a visit to the Narrator! Public School,
anc expressed his astonishment at the disgraceful
state of the buildings and outhouses, and pro-
mised to have matters attended to at once.” Now,
in view of the numerous complaints elsewhere as
to a similar state of affairs. It would be interesting
to know how the large army of inspectors and
other officials are employed, that it is necessary
for their chief to become educational scavenger.
To evade the “tax,” a Victorian land-
grabber transferred to his wife the most valuable
portion of his estate, and placed a, valuation on it
just low enough to keep it outside the provisions
of the Act. She died without making a will, so
that half the property reverts to her husband and
half to her brothers. Thus, to save £30 In tax, thia
astute “ squattah ” loses land worth thousands, and
has to pay a high probate duty on that left him.
The “ Radical ” Victorian papers are making merry
over this poor man’s misfortune. So do not we.
He has our since rest—-Yes.
Ten years ago, Netsohajeff, a Russian
Nihilist or Socialist, was condemned. People
thought he was dead long ago, but now comes a
letter written in his blood from one of the case-
ments of the St. Petersburgh fortress, telling of
the terrible inhumanity to which he has been
subjected and the inhuman treatment which he
and other prisoners have to undergo. The note is
written upon a piece of printed paper and ad-
dressed to the Emperor. Thus the abominations
which resulted in the storming of the Bastille
nearly 100 years ago, are pointing suggestively in
the same direction in Holy Russia. But when the
Russian tatterdemalions swarm over the parapets
and murder the officials of the St. Petersburgh
Bastille, Conservative writers, cosily sitting in
luxurious arm-chairs, will moralise on man's in-
humanity to man, and wonder at the ferocity of
the canaille!
This is what country journalism has come
to. The Armidale Chronicle winds up a leader
about itself with the lines:—
“ O, give us but our hollow tree,
A crust of bread and liberty.”
It is a pity the staff could not, in wet weather,
crawl Inside the editor's skull. With regard to the
crust of bread, we hope literature has not fallen
so low as to need this. If so, though giant intel-
lects are not much reverenced even here in the
metropolis, yet a literary man can always get a
chance at the corned-beef plate, if he knows the
barman, at almost any hotel. And as for liberty,
the press here has always got liberty to lie in the
Domain. People who are proud of being cynical
are very fond of saying that genius can starve in
this country for all the country cares. This is a
libel, as false as it is wicked. What have we got
gaols for ?
Hurrah! They have just go t a new hearse
up at Cobar. It was built In Dubbo, and the editor
of the Cobar local paper knows all about it. He
was the first to see it when the enterprising under-
taker, who had gone to Dubbo for it, tooled it into
town. The editor wrote a paragraph about it in
his next issue, the conclusion of which ran thus:—
“ During the week it has i> e-' it no less than
three times for the melancli •« ,> • lose for which
it was constructed.” There is i al pride about
this sentence which convinces that the editor
is conscious that his leaders were the cause of this
rush of funerals. He also states with more pride
that “ the hearse is exceedingly well finished, and
equal to anything out of Sydney.” We quite be-
heve it is all this. It would require to have a very
forbidding corpse inside it when it would not be
equal in attraction to anything in the Cobar and
Louth Herald, anyhow.
The “ boss” accident of the season is re-
ported from Clunes. Mr. Prescott was about to
remove a receptacle in which some flreworks and
other combustibles were stored. He first shifted
the contents to tne National Hotel, kept by a Mr.
Bhaux. Among these was a cigar-box, which Mrs.
Bliaux took with her into the kitchen. It exploded
just as she stepped over the threshold. Her hands,
arms, and neck were singed, but her face escaped.
And now comes the odd part. As if to make up
for its mistake in missing her face, the explosion
got amongst her hair and cleared an avenue about
an inch wide from her forehead to the poll. For
Juis distance it left the scalp as clean and shiny as
the G, ra nd Prune s plate at the termination of a
Buffalo banquet. It then knocked three sheets of
galvanised iron out of the roof, and blew the glass
and crockery to —-. Taken altogether, it was
the most erratic aifair of which we have any
trustworthy accounts.
Another elegy. From the KAma Inde-
pkndfni, this time. The poet is condoling with
the widow of a citizen of that town, who died the
other day, and after describing how a deputation
of angels were, probably, at the moment of writ-
ing, taking the spirit of deceased by the hand, the
elegistgoea on to sing:—
“ In shining robes they dress him.
Place a crown upon his brow;
And oh I that we could see him
In radiant glory now.”
This certainly ought to comfort the widow. But
It does seem a curious thing—though it is per-
fectly orthodox—that a quiet, sober-minded man,
who would, in this world, as soon think of walk-
ing down the street with a bell in Lis nos. and
wearing an artificial tail as with a violentlv-
colou ed coat on his back, no sooner goes to the
next world, than he takes to dressing* in spangled
i ed-gowns and metal crowns. Ail his good taste
leaves him, and he frills around as gorgeous as a
amu6©^ )08ter ’ 16 aU very curious - We are
When the Presbyterian gets on its legs to
do a big roar about annexation, sulphur trimmings
and universal damnation, it can just roar some.
The intense conviction of the Presbyterian that
every soul alive except those encased in the bodies
of its own clientele, is a child of wrath doomed to
hell’s flames, was never more forcibly asserted
than in its issue of last Saturday, wherein ’twas
as good as declared that the only hope for Poly-
nesia lies in its being handed over to the tender
mercies of Calvinism, as defined, prescribed, and
worked by Presbyterian Missions. The Presby-
terian’s special down is on the French, “the
flouting licentiousness of whose action in the New
Hebrides” it severely condemns, because of the
“perfidious attempt” on the part of the Fret ch
company to buy land which had already been sold
to a Presbyterian Mission I Hinc lachrymce! How
about that first sale ? When the rascally French
adventurer seeks to buy over the head of the Cal-
vinist predestinated to glory, he is (in the pre-
destinated Calvinist’s opinion) a scoundrel, a
ruffian, a libertine. When the holy Presby-
terian buys of the New Hebridean, getting a score
of acres for a song—(no a hymn)—he is doing
the Looard’s work. When he tries the same little
game in his own country, he is liable to get run in,
though not unfrequently he avoids that disaster
and retains his seat both in the Kirk and the Upper
House.
George Jeffries, of Melbourne, lost his wife,
but ere i he substance faded he had got the si adow.
The shadow was a little thing, however; and, as he
held ic before him on its bit of cardboard, his eyes
were done with it long before his heart was satis-
fied. He yearned for more of it: and believed that
if he got it the size of the door, his affection would
have room for roaming. He kno.v he could not
stretch it as it was, and it did not occur to him to
build to it He fed back upon science—the great
science of photography. Da\ is would enlarge it—
would make it as big as a mountain. The bargain
was struck, and her shadow was to grow to the
life-size of the departed. Now, George thought
that he would be as proud and happy as in the old
days—that the blue eyes of the early time would
once again shine down upon him, the red lips once
more stand parted before him, and thit he had
rescued from the grim destroyer the Image that
would keep his heart steady and his mind at peace.
But Davis trotted up one evening with a small
tour-inch thing in a velvet setting, and asked two
guineas. George groaned, and demurred fiercely r
and after pointing out how much bigger than that
16 al hould be, and how Utterly immoral it wdS to
a woman with haSel eyes whereas she of
his heart had bide ones, sent Davis to the District
S°Urt. Mr. Panton sympathised with George; and
P*'’ 1 ® ld do 7 D .the steps of the Court, realising
lt ls to have anything to do with
painting another man’s wife.
Many years ago, when the Burnett (Q.),
was m the back-blocks, Mellchrist, of Svdnev
booted and breeched, visited Baabinga. Bill, the
native, being ordered to unsaddle M.’s horse, it
to have d h£ » en . tlem an that it would be well
t° aa J e h ,s boots cleaned for the morning. And
t_ dey were, for Bill took them to the meat-
nSaI»ere^ e ' thoroughly greased them. Day
too ®I ar t ln and civilization have long since shifted
how he e n« 0 n Ut t h We a 8t ’. but he loves to tell
tops.” 6 cleaned the Sydney swell’s immaculate
Benjamin Ortley (a Ballarat man) is now
IlVflfe at ha£ f heA e Geelon? Home for Inebriates.
been an eventful one—as full of ro-
T f n a Jif„ Cla T ude or Mortimer de Mont-
numbl? k“fv “JSSSAM
acheteverfnd n 4 ** 14 * cat W if8 of the bralnfhbad-
and’Jh Jl1ove™^ U ®r’h memnglti8 of the cerebellum,
congenital nanh P faese were complicated with
P r ® m »ture baldness, and
teafhi trabismus. Bright’s disease, convul-
epigMtrium • d inH h 5 a f m! effusion of serum in the
i lun iv an( ? de tenoration of the left Ivtn-
a u d f 1118 fijscomforts. Nor was
in Little Rnnrt k . on £ Chl,i ese gambling den
awavhls livlr n'f H ree -lK cho P8tick charge carried
taThed A V ,!. r a ; Pad W i th most of that or kau at-
go into the t ’i n “ ch a^a, nst his will, be had to
some month d ho8 P} tai . at Richmond. After
some months, he was discharged incurable
Possessed no allurements till he heard
storer y Af^r Q q?i a n C V S A ld il?* r - titl,latin * healte
was well enonirh t rt^. ottJ S s of thia mixture, he
was weii enough to be transferred to the Geelong (
Inebriate Asylum. Had specialists like “Dr.” ,
in their desire to relieve suffering: humanity, not
stepped (by advertising) out of the strict etiquette
of their profession, this poor man might now be
earning his living as a common labourer. There
I are numbers of clever and highly-qualified physi-
! cians in Sydney who advertise also, and, should
they go bung in consequence of Dr. Tarrant’s
Medical Bill, we shall—go on a month of the
wildest orgie.
Victorians, we hear, are somewhat exer-
cised in their minds by the alarming intelligence
that the N.S.W. Government offices are larger
and more luxuriously appointed than those of
Cabbagegardenopolis. The Melbourne papers
are unanimous in declaring that Sydney legis-
lators transact affairs of State upon softer chairs
than do their brethren of Victoria, so the Conven-
tion- if it does nothing else—will probably be the
means of putting a good “line’' in the way of
some Melbourne upholsterer. There is a rumour
about that Messrs. Service and Berry telegraphed
tor illustrated catalogues of the newest designs
in “Cabinet furniture” immediately after the
first day's sitting.
(Conventional Notes.)
When the delegates came to attend the Conven-
tion,
The room, it appears, into which they were
shown
At once they observed with admiring attention.
As being much nicer than most of their own :
So, though the discussions were lengthy and prosy
The furniture gave them relief from their cares’
For something there was so confoundedly cosy
About the arrangement of sofas and chairs.
They came, there's no doubt, to discuss** Ann Am.
tion,”
Their minds upon politics fixed and intent,
But somehow they found in their deep meditation
“ New Guinea” and “ px-ices of fittings” were
blent;
And Service of one thing is perfectly certain—
That (let the Convention result as it please)
He’ll immediately order a new style of curtain,
And work for his country on softer settees.
BANANA-SKIN MANUAL.
The Weed.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
5h, now 1’ni did and weary*
.. And tlnle has wo th a Way
The freshness fronl my bblritf;
The brightness from the day ;
Those rainbow tints of beauty
No more aroilnd me play.
That kept my eyes from aching
With the world’* sad sombre gfey*
But mem’ry keeps recalling’,
Irom a chaos of regret,
The ghoste of vanished pleasures,
Ot the fays thatl have met:
The witching wiles of Sara,
Of her smile, her frown, or pet.
As lovingly she’d kiss me
When sue ran me into debt.
Or floor me with a poker—
I can show the places yet.
But now the world is hollow.
Oh, as hollow as a drum,
And the only pleasures left me
. -Afe my “ Conqueror ” and rum ;
A S, d 1 i 1 swear I’d cut the painter,
f or I feel so blessed glum,
Only that I want a corner
In the land they say’s to come.
Yet, although my life is empty,
And every prospect bleak,
1 sometimes, through the darkness.
See a softened amber streak—
Tis when I gei my quart r
Of tobacco for the week-
J.B.P.
THE LANGTRY TWIST.
THE DUDE KICK.
THE ROSEBERY SLIDE.
THE CIRCUS WHIRL,
THE PILLAR SLAM.
THE PANCAKE FLOP.


Wells’ “Rough oh Cokns."—Ask for Wells’
“Rough on Corns.” Quick relief, complete, per-
manent euro. Corn*. worts, bunions. Moses,
Moss & Co.. Sydney, General Agents.
Woman Items
“ What shall we do with our girls ? ” Send
’em to kill rabbits. Two Scarborough (N.Z.) girls,
in three months, killed just 17,000. Sweet seven-
teen !
A Cardwell lady ordered from a Towns-
ville bootmaker a pair of two-guinea No 3 boots,
but six consecutive times returned them as
“ pinching her.” At last, in desperation, the boot-
maker put a No. 3 ticket on No. 5 boots, and sent
them up. Lady kept them as fitting her exactly.
But the yarn leaked out, to the Intense delight of
her feminine friends.
Topic for afternoon tea at Darling Point.
There is to be a separation between the King and
Queen of Roumania. They say this is because the
marriage is without issue. We know better. It
is because the Queen is a poetess. She is known
to literature as Carmine Sylvia. We think the
king is quite right. In any other age, public
opinion would have justified him in having her
beheaded. If we had a wife who wrote poetry, we
should go so far as to warn her with a tomahawk,
and chance the law—that is unless she wrote for
Alfred. Then we would leave her to public fury.
At the Bristol New Theatre, Kate Vaughan
created a furore as Cinderella. Odd that she
should choose Cinderella, if ever a prince—fairy
or real- falls in love with Kate, it won’t be for her
feet. The Bristol sensation was on account of her
diamonds, She was a blaze. Large diamond soli-
taires in her ears, fingers covered with diamond
rings, hair banged with festoons of stones.
Shoulder-straps, bracelets, necklet, apron even
glinting with crystalised carbon. However she
presented herself—frontways, sideways—anyways,
in fact—she looked as if she’d just been rolled in
Sinbad’s valley. What she is worth when en des-
habille it would he hard to say, but, as she tried to
insinuate her foot into the glass “eleven” before
the Bristol audience, her value might have been
under £10,000, but was certainly over £5000,
One could scarcely imagine, says a ’Frisco
lady, a flannel shirt as a thing of beauty when
worn by the fair sex, or suppose it comparable
with all those pretty transparent seductive lace
things that disclose a bit of white neck here, and
a segment of fair arms there, and are fatally con-
ducive to summer proposals and subsequent
matrimony, I have just seen a sweet thing in
flannel shirts ; a soft, semi-transparent affair. It
is a poem in Shetland wool; hand-knit, artful,
elastic. It does not shrink into a wisp in three
washings ; it fits like a glove to every movement.
Of course, a flannel shirt, ptr se, is not a toilet. But
to beautify It is to begin at the beginning, and to
make, as it were, a stepping-stone for higher
things. It will create in the ituimiuo breast a
desire to Jive up to one’s flannels. Itreuuccs the
effect of embonpoint to a minimum. It gives a
suspicion of curve to the most slab-sided. It is
decidedly prettier than the Jersey. The only
trouble is that it can’t be worn outside.
• • •
An Armidale resident has just become the
father of his twenty-sixth child. He has had three
wives: the first was the mother of thirteen, the
second of three, and the present wife of ten.. An
excellent wash for the face —water Japanese
widows wishing for a second husband wear their
hair twisted round a tortoise-shell pin. An in-
co.n8°lable one has her hair cut short. No widow
with short hair has ever been seen in Japan For
saying that Miss King, a petite actress, was “ a
small lady with a very big nose and ugly,” the
Da!Ly American had to defend a libel suit for
£10,000, brought against it by Miss K. Suit dis-
missed. but appeal made to Supreme Court of U.S.
• • • A highly respectable young person advertises in
Granny her want of a situation as housekeeper
to a widower or bachelor. Why should she have
made moral Garranny her medium ?....Actresses
who would be handsome for ever use arsenic.
When weary and dim-eyed with work, its marvel-
lous effect is to at once brighten the eyes most
lustrously, make the complexion pure and white,
and it “ plumpens” the figure. Being an accumu-
lative poison, of course it kills, But—better dead
than ugly? There’s a township, North-west
away, where a total female population of 16 have
added 14 souls to the local census within four
months—The Railway Department has put wire-
netting in front of the ticket windows at Redfern,
to prevent young ladies going home from dancing
class trying to lies the clerks. Lots of girls
apply after 8 p.m. to the young men at
the G.P O. windows for letters, when it
isn’t letters they’re thinking of at all
A labourer’s wife in England had 17 children In 11
years, and three girls at one birth The widows
of India, having been prevented from cremating
themselves along with their dead lords, have taken
to second marriages. They are determined to
sacrifice themselves somehow.. ..The “bearded
lady,” so well known at fairs and small shows in
the English country towns, was recently found
dead at Sheffield. The cause of death was » stab
through the eye with a pen knife, but by whom
administered, no one knows. By the hye, the
“ bearded lady ” was a man named Ratcliff. An-
other disallusionment! A boniface, who has
buried two wives, and is living with the third,
holds the following views oh matrimony (he hails
from the Teutonic Vateriand):—“ VeU, you
see, de first time I married for love, dat
vas goot; then I married for beauty, dat
vas goot, too, about, as de first; dis time
I married for money, and dis is pet.ter as poth.”
Now that tailor-made dresses are so popular, a dif-
ficulty sometimes arises because sen itive women
object to be measured by men. A Paris dress-
maker has invented a machine to meet this. It is
a sectional jacket with sliding tapes, slotted open-
ings, and other adjustable devices. The lady can
put it on herself, and by simply pulling a tape or
two, it fits snugly all over, and the tailor merely
records the measurements The very newest
religious sect is “The Pilgrim Band.” For m r-
ried men, in particular, the new creed is absolutely
lovely, as it entirely relieves one of any old-
fashioned responsibility in the matter of the “ old
woman.” The very first time that a few words
arise over the dinner, Benedict jumps up from
the table, indignant-like, and makes a statement
to the effect that his marriage was a “marriag,
of darknessthen he just looks around for a
“ spiritual spouse.” Under these circumstances
married life becomes a perfect panorama.
At one of the recent aristocratic quadrille
assemblies held at Junee Junction, a prominent
railway official was heard to exclaim “ Oh, dang
it, stash them ’ere jumpin darnels, and let’s ’ave a
quoderille.”
A N.S.W. I ublic School attendance in-
spector in one of the country districts was re-
cently brought down a peg or two in a very
simple manner. He had taken what was con-
sidered very arbitrary measures to compel the
attendance at school of the daughter of a well-
known resident, against whom the last charge
would certainly be neglect of his ehildre i’s
education. The great note from the inspector
was stiff with official importance. On it his
orthography was distinctly recherche. The reply
of the “offender” was simple and brief. It was
to the effect that he had thought his daughter
was well educated, but that she certainly must go
to school again if the inspector’s spelling was
officially correct. “ Opperation,” “ proficiency,”
&c., &c. The correspondence has ended. The in-
spector has evidently gone back to the tan-yard,
or the slaughter-house.
Recently, the secretary of a certain
Masonic lodge—to speak in a Masonic sense—
departed to become a member of that Great Grand
Lodge over which the Great Architect of the
Universe presides. He did not take his diploma
or certificate with him, but he appears to have
taken the funds, to the extent of some hundred
pounds odd. which are missing with him. There is
much swearing and gnashing of teeth among the
bereaved brethren, who denied their late secre-
tary, a man who was much respected when alive,
a Masonic funeral. Several of the brother-
hood indignantly vow that they will abandon
Masonry altogether, as even a most zealous
“square” man cannot be trusted any more. We
should think so, too. In this age of reason and
thought, all the awful and solemn signs of
Masonry and kindred institutions are as ridiculous
as would be attempts to restore to life the 4000-
year-old Egyptian mummies, of whom it is claimed
the first Masons were contemporaries. Only a
well-guarded secresy. so far as the ordinary public
is concerned, preserves Masonry, a mere pastime
for big children, from the ridicule and derision
attendant on a public procession of Druids.
When the Armidale Chronicle wants to
pay a compliment, it doesn’t go sneaking round
for mincing, bread-and-butter phrases, but speaks
straight from the heart and uses the first words
that turn up. If outsiders cannot understand the
precise import of those words, why so much the
worse for the outsiders. Commenting on its
senior member's (Mr Proctor) silence regarding
the Land Bill the Chronicle says:—“ He is one of
those men we so rarely meet with, who, having at
the time, nothing to say, say it.” Be still fond
heart, till we try this over again. There’s a mistake
somewhere. Ah 1 here it is. The mistake is in
trying to make us believe that men, having no-
thingto say and saying it, are rare. Why, these are
the very fellows who are universal. You find
them everywhere. Parliament, Church, Corpora-
tion, Army, Navy, Bench, Bar and Bumbledun, are
stuffed with them. They spout for hours at a
Ministerial picnic, or a suburban bun-struggle, and
say—nothing. They meander into the pulpit in
taultless shirt-fronts, centrally-divided hair, and
be-jewelled fingers, and. having read a text, spend
the next thirty minutes in saying—nothing; or. if
they do venture a positive assertion, it is tout the
text doesn’t mean what it says at all, but some-
thing else. N o; our experience is that the men
with nothing to say are the longest-winded bores
of all.
When the Marquis do Rays, a needy Brctou
adventurer of good fa luily, was concocting his im-
ypioeo ly f-auduient scheme ot colonisation, of
v, idea a loading feature was sale oi estates i i w
Ireland to any one foolish enough to buy, ai imm ,
journal courageously exposed the rascality of the
business. It appears that it is nearly as dangerous
for a journal in France to attempt to protect the
public against the plundering devices of a swindler
as it has become under the present admin-
istration and interpretation of the law of libel in
New south Wales. The Marquis brought ai
action for damages against ti e journal which
interfered with his schemes and enlightened the
public respecting his character and history. Sub-
stantial damages were awarded to him. Now,
after the interval < f over six yean , after hundred:
of poor emigrants’ Jives have le n sacrificed, am
hundreds of unlucky investors have lost all tbi
money the Marquis was enabled to coax out 01
them by false representations under the protec-
tion of the libel Jaw, the State finds Itself com-
pelled to step in and prosecute him i s a notoriom
swindler. The Marquis, like so many other know -
ing modern scoundrels, made a yood parane ol
piety. He was a holy scoundrel, a ■ d used to wort
the religious racket, even succeeding in getting a
formal recognition from one of the Cardinals ai
Rome. If he be acquitted by any chance—by
having, for example, been too knowing to actual! j
bring himself under the letter of the law—w-'<
should not be surprised to hear that i e had com-
menced an action against one of hig victims who
had set the law in motion against him. to recovei
damages for false imprisonment. This is a favourite
device of professional swindlers when cornere*.
and driven to desperation.
lu “ Flo Dixie,” < etsh wayo has discovereo
his s.aunchest champion. “ Flo,” of course, is no>
always 10 be relied on, but, to give her h-r do- .
wheiher she tells the truth or indulges in a miM
(you know)—she always speaks as if she meant it.
The brutality to which she was treated bv thci!--
Irish hodmen gained for her a good deal of syn -
pathy. Whether she will obtain as much in hm
espousal of the fallen monarch’s cause remains t
be seen. What prompts this espousal? Canitb 0
that the Zulu Chief’has found favour in her eye? '
She bluntly accuses the Governor of Natal—Sir
Henry Bulwer—of being her darling's most piti-
less enemy, adding : “ The vein of animosity runs
through the whole clique of officials concerned
with the management of Zulu affairs.” Accordii g
t° „ f Cetshwayo is at present “on the
wallaby, not because he was defeated, but
because he trusted England. He was allowed to
return to Zululand and receive back part of uis
former kingdom, on condition that he di i
not make war on one Zibebu, who had
also promised not to pole-axe him. No"
King Cetshwayo is a man of his word. He had
learnt in London how to wear—clothes and tell 1 1 o
truth. But Zibebu having missed those reflnii. t
influences, no sooner caught Cetshwayo and his
beefeaters enjoying themselves than he broke in
upon them, dispersing some and retaining the
balance -or at least pieces of them. This account s
for the King’s emporary retirement, and is co -
sidered a very good reason. No doubt he will turn
up m some other place, and give Zululand toh .
And now “ Flo’ wants to know why the lattei is
to be allowed to break his plighted troth and ha \
nothing said to him ? She demands a Royal Com-
mission, and predicts some piquant exposures;
says that the treatment of < etshwayo was “m -
manly. un-English [how .ve love this word], and a
cruel martyrdom,” and attnbutts all the foul ph.y
to the plans of the Annexationists. We have 00V
own opinion on the matter. We think that n
Cetshwayo, Zibebu, and “Flo” were put in a launch
together on the lately-discovered Central African
lake, with a rhinocerus cosily squatter on the
safety-valve and a nigger chucking hams into the
furnace, the Zulu question would somehow settb'
itself.
Lux y and dull feelings always ureoetsd
nothing but Hop Bittow will
A Marked Distinction;
Or, “ Two to One Against the Field.”


Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 11th December, 1888.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.—tenders are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
27th November, 1883.
PAYMENT OF RENTS OF RUNS.
HOLDERS of Runs in the 2nd Class Settled and
Unsettled Districts, are reminded that, by
the Ptb clause of chapter 3, part 2 of the Regula
tions under the Lands Act Further Amendment
Act of 1880, the rents of all Runs must be paid on
or before the 31st December next.
Persons tendering payments will be required to
state Lessee’s name. District, and name of Run.
A pamphlet having beeu published, showing the
rents payable on the various Runs of the Colony,
copies of the same can be obtained at the Govern-
ment Printing Office, at a charge of Is. 6d. each.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 3rd December, 1883.
TENDERS FOR ADDITIONS, TAR-PAYING, &c.
TENDERS are invited for Additions, Tar-paving,
&c., at the Balmain Superior Public School.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Additions, Tar-
paving, &c., Balmain Superior Public School,”
must be lodged with the Acting Under-Secretary,
Department of Public Instruction, at or before 10
o’clock a.m. on Monday, the 24th December 1883.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender. G . H. REID.
N'
ORMANBY STAKES AND TATTERSALL’S
CUP, COMBINED, 1st JANUARY. 1884.
aOOO Members, at 10s. 194 Horses.
1st Horse in each.. £700
2nd „ „ 25U
3rd „ „ 100
Starters „ 1WJ
Non-starters,, 100
By Letter only. „ _ ...
“ACHILLES,” care of Walter Montgomery,
Chancery-lane, Melbourne ; or, Box 73, G.P.O.,
Sydney.
Also, Totalisator on each
Members £1, divided.
1st 4-10ths
2nd 3-lOths
3rd 2-lOths
XX XX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX X
XXX X XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXX
XX CHRISTMAS IN A FORTNIGHT. XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
V;
XMAS XMAS XMAS,
TO-DAY, THURSDAY
CHRISTMAS IN A FORTNIGHT.
CHRISTMAS IN A FORTNIGHT,
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
BUY ALL YOU WANT EARLY,
EARLY, EARLY, EARLY, EARLY, XX
and just come in to-day to XX
HORDERNS’, XX
HORDERNS’ in PITT-STREBT. XX
XX
(Notice our Window, please.) XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
OTS OF BEAUTIFUL THINGS XX
xx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
■ J FOR CHRISTMAS
in HORDERN’S ESTABLISHMENT,
174,176, 209, 211, Pitt-street.
We have commenced during the hot
weather TO OPEN
AT 8 O’CLOCK IN THE MORNING,
fX so as to give those who like it to do XX
XX their shopping early, before the XX
XX heat of the day sets in. XX
XX XX
XX 8 O’CLOCK in the MORNING, XX
XX At HORDERN’S, XX
XX in Pitt-street. XX
XX CHRISTMAS
xx
XX CH
XX
XX
XX
XX
MILLINERY. XX
. XX
CHRISTMAS. We have been preparing XX
Christmas, for some time for a Grand XX
Christmas. Display of Millinery for XX
Christmas, this month of Christmas XX
Christmas, and our highest hopes XX
Christmas, have been realised; for XX
a* Christmas, it is not too much to say XX
X X Christmas, that we have the largest, XX
XX Christmas, the most choice, the XX
XX Christmas, most varied, and prices XX
XX Christmas, the most moderate ef any XX
XX Christmas. House in the colonies; XX
XX Christmas, and it is a guarantee for XX
XX Christmas, the above facts the XX
XX Christmas, amountof patronage and XX
XX Christmas, the great demand for our XX
XX Christmas. Millinery we have re- XX
XX Christmas, ceived from the Ladies of XX
XX Christmas. Sydney and New South XX
XX Christmas. Wales. It is worth a XX
XX Christmas. lady’s time to come and XX
XX Christmas. inspectourMILLINERY, XX
XX Christmas, and she cannot fail to XX
XX Christmas, come to the conclusion XX
XX Christmas, that HORDERN’S in Pitt- XX
XX Christmas, street excel all others. XX
XX XX
XX See our Prices. I Recollect—We open XX
XX See our Stock, j now from EIGHT XX
XX See our Variety. (O’CLOCK in the XX
XX All imported. f Morning. Come early XX
XX All Imported. ( before the crush of XX
XX i business commences.' XX
XX XX
XX HORDERN BROTHERS, XX
XX Importers and Milliners, XX
XX 211, Pitt-street, Sydney. XX
XX XX
XX xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx XX
XX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XX
TATE BROTHEB8,
Auctioneers,
Stock, Station, and General Com-
mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
HAVING Just completed extensive alterations
to our premises, we are better prepared
than last year to exhibit our
CHRISTMAS
and
NEW YEAR CARDS.
We cordially invite our friends and customers
to inspect our large and well-selected stock.
Note address CANTER ij j L, 235 Oxford-street.
Maid, Wife, and Mother:
A BOOK FOR WOMANKIND.
ITA1NING matters of a medical nature,
lighly interesting to the sex. Post fx-ee, in
. cover, for 3s. 6d., money order or registered
stter. Te be had only from the publisher,
MRS. BEARCROFT,
Box 785 G.P.O., Sydney.
adv
WML RUSSELL,
DENTIST,
ALCOCK & CO.'S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES.
SOLE AGENTS;
■P
375 George-st., Sydney.
TIME PAYMENTS, IF REQUIRED.
Department of Lands,
Sydney, 16th November, 1883.
HIS Excellency the Governor, with the
advice of the Executive Council, is
pleased to notify that tue following reserved
or boundary road, a tracing of which may
he seen at this office, which has been applied
for to be closed and alienated under the 10th
section of the Crown Lands Alienation Act
of 1»61, will be closed at the expiration of
three months alter the date of this notice,
if no valid objections be previously lodged,
and a i rant of the site of the road so closed
will issue in accordance with such applica-
tion ; and all persons interested are invited
to state, within three months from this date,
their objections, if any. to such road being
closed, or to such grant being made.?
.iAMES 8. FARNELL.
Schedule of an Unnecessary Road applied
for to be closed and alienated under the 10th
clause of the Crown Lands Alienation Act of
1861.
No. 19560.1568 : Hill. Clarke and Co.; St. James,
Cumberland ; )4 perch (about) ; Part of the
boundary road separating applicant’s allotments
in section No. 100, being Nos. 34,35,36, 37, and 38, of
5j4 perches. 5)4 perches, 5)4 perches, 5)4 perches,
and 5)4 perches respectively, from the western
building line ot ilacquarie-street, such building-
line being 12 feet back from the existing kerb.
Corner of KING and PITT STREETS, Sydney.
Artificial Teeth, from 5s. Stopping, Scaling, and
Extracting equally moderate. Malformations and
accidental deformities of the jaws, teeth, or palate,
treated. King-st. entrance. All work guaranteed #
m
m
rjw
MPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR OF THE
ZULU WAR.
Newcastle—19th November to December 3.
Maitland—December 6th.
S y dney to follow, with George Gordon’s magni-
ficent
DIORAMA OF THE EGYPTIAN WAR!
W. H. THOMPSON, Proprietor.
8YL. RYAN, Agent.
The choicest Australian floral
CARDS
are those published by
Messrs. TURNER and HENDERSON,
and only
To be OBTAINED at their ESTABLISHMENT
in Hunter-street.
They are very chaste and lovely, and can be had
with or without Christmas mottoes. All have
botanical names at foot of card
Price, Is. each ; 10s. per dozen, post free.
PRESENTS. PRESENTS. PRESENTS,
TURNER and HENDERSON
are now opening
CHOICE GOODS
of every description suitable for the
Coming Season.
Showroom on First Floor.
McCLEERY’S HOTEL,
Corner of KING and CASTLERBAGH STREETS.
R. McCLEERY (.late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
PRIVATE BAR UP-STAIRS.
Mr. John Hunter’s Boot Palace, corner of
George and Market streets, is rapidly nearing com-
pletion. It is to be one of the best-fitted and most
extensive establishments of the kind in the
colonies, and the ruling principle is to be big sales
and low figures.
Perhaps you have heard of the half-sove-
reign trick. If you haven’t, here it is. The
trickster goes into a shop and buys a trifling
article—probably a nose-duster—and tenders half-
a-sov. in payment. When he gets his change, he
offers silver in exchange for the coin; then, when
the shopman hands it back, he suddenly remem-
bers another trifling article he wants to buy, and
forgets to hand over the silver. He pays for the
purchase from the silver in his hand; then, putting
his hand in his pocket, brings out a further supply,
and hurriedly asks the shopman if he can oblige
him with a note for silver, as he has too much of
it to carry. The shopman again obliges him, and
this time gets his change correctly; but, in the
hurry and multiplicity of the changes rung by the
customer, he quite overlooks the tact that the
latter has swindled him to the extent of ten shil-
lings, in not returning the change for the half-
sovereign.
Tennyson is to be made a Peer. Presum-
ably his elevation will be timed so as to permit o’
his producing his monody on John Brown, as a
noble. Conceive a Peer eulogizing a flunkey. A
nobleman might do it, but a noble man, never.
Algernon Swinburne is not a noble man by loner
chalks, but he at least has never bedraggled his
poetic laurels by writing to order such drivel as
Tennyson’s dreadful “ Alexandrawna ” verses,
produced to till the bill when the present Princess
of Wales came over to marry Albert Edward—
verses which set everyone’s teeth on edge. Swin-
burne allows the real poetic fire to blaze—he
doesn’t go in for artificial lights liae the Laureate.
Here is one of his last burning thoughts—thoughts
which flow from the spirit of the times as natur-
ally as lava from a volcano:—
Put in the sickles and reap,
■’or the morning of harvest is red,
ind the long large ranks of the corn
Coloured and clothed as the morn
Stand thick in the fields and deep
For them that faint to be fed.
Let all that hunger and weep
Come hither, and who would have bread
Put in the sickles and reap.
Now the kings wax lean as they sit
The people stow strong to stand;
The men they trod on and spat,
The dumb dread people that sat
As corpses cast in a pit.
Rise up with God at their hand,
And thrones are hurled on a heap,
And strong men, sons of the land,
Putin the sickles and reap.
The dumb dread people that sat
All night without screen for the night,
All day without feed tor the day,
They shall give not their harvest away.
They shall eat of its fruit and wax fat;
They shall see the desire of their sight.
Though the ways of the season be steep,
They shall climb with face to the light,
Put in the sickles and reap,
A Boon in the Boot Line for Christmas.—
One of the establishments in the boot line in
Sydney that has for a period of years been popular
with the public is that of Mr. John M’Evoy’s, at
574 George-street, at the corner of Bathursf-streef.
It is now justupf n twenty years since Mr. M’Eroy
went extensively into the trade, and ever since
the business has gone on developing, giving
employment in one way or another to a large
number of hands, and requiring the extensive
premises now occupied. The premises are of
great depth, with several floors, and the open
stock on view amounts in value to several thou-
sands of pounds. Mr. M'Evoy’s establishment is
the great repository of colonial industry—the
makes of nearly every factory in the colony,
besides his own, being represented. The superior
description of colonial boots, now noticeable at
many of our factories, are here to be seen selling
at manufacturers’ prices, and the trade done in
this line alone is very extensive, the business
on Saturdays, requiring additional hands. Mr.
M'Bvoy likewise imports very largely, so that all
the best English ani French boots are here ob-
tainable at prices which cannot anywhere be sur-
passed. A view of the interior of Mr. M'Evoy s
establishment will convey, at any time, an idea of
the great trade done by the house. Over £40,000
worth of goods is turned over durmg the quarter.
Mr. M‘Evoy has secured the patronage of the
great artizan class of Sydney, whose families
obtain here every description of boot they require
at the lowest possible figure. During the ap-
proaching Christmas season, a great all-round 25
per cent, reduction will reign at the establishment,
—another proof of the fact that Mr. M’Evoy is
determined to retain the patronage be succeeded
jn winning years ago,*
A cricket match was played on Saturday
at Botany, between representatives of the Central
Police Court and Colonial Architect’s Office. The
latter team went first to the wickets, and scored
130 runs before they were got rid of by the Force.
The Centrals made a very poor display, losing
eight wickets for 6 runs, whereupon their captain
thought it advisable to make a drawn game of it:
so it was decided slightly in favour of the Colonial
Architect’s Office.
“No Surrender,” in a letter to the Stan-
dard after giving a few of the dozens of
reasons why all Protestants should support that
tawny rag, enthusiastically shrieks that “‘No
peace with ignorance, bigotry, intolerance, and
false doctrine!—no peace with crime, immorality,
and intemperance!’—are the mottoes of this brave
little paper, which will never cease to speak out
its noble sentiments, and can never be silenced,
though all the powers of Rome and hell be brought
up against it.” “ No Surrender’s” Christian name
is evidently Zachary—that is, at least, if Zachary
be a Christian name—which, from the sentiments
expressed by several who have borne it, we should
take to be not the case.
Fitzroy, the Melbourne suburb, is to go
under the pump of grace at last. It has been mis-
behaving itself recently, as many of the ransomed
residents have sorrowfully declared. Some other
residents, it is true, thought it as good as is the
average suburban town; and even in the local
Council voices were raised in extenuation of the
crimes charged against its rule of life B it these
apologists worked in vain; nay, it was declared
that they became apologists because they, too,
needed to be doubled up under the torrent of the
cleansing pump. So, now is the acceptable time
for Fitzroy: now is the day of its salvation at
hand. The Presbytery has commissioned the Rev.
J. M'Laren to rig up the contrivance, and grip the
handle; and the begrimed souls of Fitzroy look up
thankfully, knowing that, as the Rev. J. wobbles,
the priceless liquid will flow. But remembering
that, as Bishop Moorhouse says, in conducting
modern miracles Providence always uses human
instruments, the little suburb is naturally anxious
to find out who was the instrument made use of
by that benian Power to influence the Presbytery
to commission the Rev. J. Well, the secret is now
open that the instrument was no other than Hong
Cheong. a respectable and God-fearingJChinaman.
Hong Cneong pleaded before the fathers, averred
that Fitzroy was worse than any part of the New
Hebrides, and besought the Presbytery to supply
a Gospel-pump, and a man for the handle. Thus,
Hong, Providence, and the Presbytery produced
M‘Laren, and M‘Laren will cleanse Fitzroy.
The Swan with Two Necks. —The Christ-
mas season once more arriving, Mr. T. M‘Master,
of the Swan with Two Necks, Park and George-
streets, is again to the front, announcing to his
numerous patrons his preparedness for the festive
season. It is now just upon fifteen years since Mr.
M’Master actively took over the Swan with Two
Necks, and there are hundreds, or probably thou-
sands, who will remember the distinct push he
gave to business in the locality, and the improve-
ments he effected. For years the Swan has been
famous for its genuine liquors, in glass or bottle ;
and in every conceivable way, by extensive inter-
nal alterations, has Mr. M'Master essayed to
accommodate the various classes of his patrons.
There are half a dozen different entrances to the
hotel, with private bars and parlours, making a
visit there any time of the day quite private and
enjoyable. It may be interesting here to note
that Mr. M’Master has accepted plans for yet more
extensive alterations, which will entirely change
the appearance of the hotel, and more than double
the accommodation. These improvements will
give further aecommodat’on to trade societies,
which have, for some years now, made the Swan
with Two Necks their only rendezvous. Indeed,
it may be said that it was owing largely t/i the
good accommodation, and the careful piloting at
the Swan, that much of the unity between the
great trade organizations of Sydne.v is due. The
alterations projected will about quadruple this
accommodation—a fact that will be good news to
many artizans in this city. With regard to the
trade of the house, which is personally superin-
tended by the host and his estimable hostess, no-
thing will be found wanting this Christmas. Mr.
M‘Master buys and imports largely, solely for
cash, so that he is able, naturally, to undersell
most other houses, who are unable to purchase so
extensively. \ Old ports, old Cherries, thoroughly
good whiskys, brandys, and cognacs, and only
genuine British ales and beers are on the cards for
Christmas supplies, as of yore. The public may
come with the assur mce of being as well and as
cheaply served as at any other house in the
colonies.*
Sad.
Oh. what a thrill
(We feel it still)
Shot through us as we pressed her hand,
For she had jewels, gold, and land,
And called us “dear;”
No prince nor peer
Felt half the bloated swell that we did,
When we our suit pressed, and succeeded.
Yes, it was sad.
What makes us mad
Though, is the thought if we had had her—
But, there—it only makes us madder.
Those dreams have flown;
A polished si one
And iron rails are all that greet us,
And seem to hint that Death has “ beat” us;
For she has gone,
And we’re alone,
A beer-stained wreck—Oh, when you look on
The grave of her that we were shook on,
Young reader, pause
And think, because
You may be shook, unless you beware,
Upon some rich old maid, like we were.
J. B. P.
The Beauties of New Guinea.


Your Xmas Wine Orders should be
booked early to insure delivery. Hookings and
Co , 143 Pitt-street.J
The distiguriug eruptions on the face, the
sunken eye, the pallid complexion, indicate that
there is so uetbing wrong going on within Expel
the linking toe to health. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
was devised for that purpose; and does it.*
Vain regrets! How many there are m
this place suffering with disease who look back
with the deepest regret upon the time and money
they have thrown away in trying new remedies,
only to find themselves deceived. Take our advice,
all is not lost; use Bristol's Sarsaparilla aud Puis,
they contain a great and reliable curative power. *
The dudes are just going it proper now in
England. Coloured cabs of pink, yellow, and celes-
tial blue carry their lovely forms around the
drives, and whenever they don’t feel quite up to
sucking the heads of their caues a servant attends
to suck them for their exhausted owners. -In
case of a death in the family, a band of crape is
tied round the cane, and an ingenious artist has
just invented a mec lauical mourning stick, the
bead of which dghs once ever 30 seconds. By and
bye the dude will be all stick,
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
In a certain town, the pastor, finding the
old plan of the plate ineffective, has invented a
Agger,” with a mouth of the Billy Wilson type,
which is carried round. When a coin is put
between the lips, the mouth opens, gulps it down,
and shuts with a snap. And the boys, and adults
as well, have used up all the pennies in the district
making that mouth work*
The English let talented blasphemy
severely alone, but the coarse or ignorant blas-
phemer is quickly muzzled. Be but erudite, and
you can deny a personal First Cause, laugh at
the idea of immortality, gibe at the Trinity, a d
sneer at the whole celestial hierarchy. Be ignorant,
and the slightest reflection on the moral character
of .Moses, or the amours of Magdalen, land you in
the dock.
On a late visit to Newcastle of the Grand
Orange Lodge officers, the Rev. Mr. Madgwick,
G.W. Chaplain, of Sydney, laid down the following
phenomenal dogma: “He pointed out the neces-
sity of some sort of religious belief among men,
and that if a man did not believe something for
himself, he must believe something that some one
else had believed for him.” So that, then, a man’s
religion is merely a toss-up for places, after all.
Hallelujah, boys; let’s have aunivershal “shake ”
for choice of roads to glory 1
They are praying for rain in Brisbane.
The supplications are to be continued every Sunday
until “the Almighty will deign to grant their
object.” As a shower is safe to come sooner or
later, the supplicants have only to continue in
order to have their petition answered. The Chinese
are ahead of us in this matter. They also pray for
rain, and give their idols two days' grace to make
their minds up. Should no waterspout follow,
“ time” is called at the end of 48 hours, and the
devotees becoming aggressors take the wooden
gods from their perches and assault them
unmercifully.
The religious beggar is the prince of his
tribe. At a certain Australian town, which shall
be nameless, a servant of the Loard some time
back delivered himself of a begging sermon in aid
of local, and, ergo, of his own personal require-
ments. Whan the usual patriarchs began to shin
round with the plate, a moiety of the congregation
made tracks for the door as usual. “ Shut those
doors!” roared the ecclesiastic, and they were
shut, while the plates were significantly p ised
under the nose of every soul within the building.
There are various ways of collecting. The bush-
ranger is a collector. So are some begging eccle-
siastics.
The screech of the orthodox guid is that
the Agnostic’s creed is dark, dreary, and hepeiess,
without any glinting of the light beyond. But
how if there be no experience of the light beyond ?
Is it the Agnostic’s fault if there be none ? Which
in reality is the more hopeless creed—to dream
you see a light beyond and build New Jerusalems
upon your glint, or to decline to take aught but
positive experience in proof of Jerusalems new or
old ? The positive existence of this present world
is proved by experience; that of the world to come
has yet to beproved. The Agnostic rests onhuman
experience: those who decry him, and anathema-
tise him, on idle dreams.
Trouble at Lithgow, N.S.W. A Protes-
tant parson “attended and countenanced” a
concert in aid of the Sisters of St. Joseph, and a
R.C. priest attended a Wesleyan meeting and “con-
gratulated them upon their success.” This
brotherly-love business needs repressing with a
strong hand. We are neither Roman Catholics nor
Weslevans. We are Hardshells, and firmly believe
that all R.C.’s and Wesleyans will go to hell and be
for all eternity grilled, and that we shall have the
satisfaction of sitting on a pink cloud and flapping
our wings to the music of an American har-
monium, while the eyeballs of our enemies in
Gehenna go bung like Chinese crackers.
Mellefont, of the Queensland Leader, in a
recent edition of his little butter-wrap, greases
that sanctimonious wallaby-tracker, the “Rev.”
Peter Campbell, and wires into MTlwraith, Dr.
O’Doherty, the Land Leaguer, and The Bulletin.
He says the abolition of landlordism would lead
to ecclesiastical foreign domination in the land.
Of course, Henry George, Parnell, Redpath,
Chamberlain, Professor Blackie, Colonel “Chinese”
Gordon, Wallace, and others who have advocated
land reform are Jesuits in disguise and friends of
the Scarlet Woman. What with the Pope on one side
and the Holy Joeys of Exeter Hall on the other,
Land Reformers nave a breezy time of it, and
would need to possess skins as tough as a Mackay
kanaka or the newly-appointed Speaker of the
Queensland Parliament.
Chiniquy’s latest work, which has cost him
(or he lies) ten years of labour, will be a grand
octavo of some 1000 pp. (we cheerfully give him
this adv. gratuitously), but—yes, there’s alwavs a
deuce of a but in a thing of this kind—the printing
of this work is too expensive for his limited
means. Therefore, kind Kerristian friends, you
are besought in the name of the Deity (Mammon,
probably) to help the sleek and saponaceous “ pas-
tor ” to publish it; not, you know, as a loan or a gift
—oh! dear no—but as the price of thevol., which
cannot be less than five dollars. We are simply
awaiting to hear how many lots of five dollars
Pastor Allen has sent along before ante-ing up
our own account, since we are assured that a
judicious review of this soul-unctioning work,
illustrated by our own Hopkins, will take—like
blazes I
It must be a matter of sincere satisfaction
to the Rev. George Dods, who officiates, vice
Charles Strong, in the Scots Church, Melbourne,
to be assured by the Presbytery that he is not to
be held accountable for any mistakes made in
Scotland. It made us quite glad to hear the
generous announcement. It seems that Charles
trong got Mr. Dods ordained in Glasgow,
without any reference to the Victorian Presbytery,
and that consequently the young man is in his
present position of acting pastor in the Scots
Church without having submitted himself to the
colonial organisation. He has not come through
the gate, but climbed over the wall. Charles
Strong, who was a bit of a diplomat, led Scotland
to make the mistake. Rentoul sees farther before
his nose than his brothers, or they would not have
decreed that George Dods was not accountable for
any mistake in Scotland.
The Bishop of Ballarat having called upon
the Rev. Mr. Zillman, of Hamilton (Vic.), to re-
sign, that gentleman has done so. The grounds of
the Bishop’s action are said to be that Mr. Zillman
adversely criticised his Ordinary in the public
Press for not promoting him to a vacant arch-
deaconry, in accordance with an alleged implied
arrangement. The principle on which the doc-
tilne of “ nolo episcopari ” is based, it would seem
is not believed in by Mr. Zillman. ’Tis, indeed, in
most priestly circles an exploded belief. “ Give
me a higher place, or ” is the line now taken by
the majority of clerics, with complete indifference
to a certain Christian rule about taking the lower
place. When they do this unsuccessfully, and are
told to “git,” they mustn’t be surprised if they
fail to get sympathy in any quarter, either from
their co-religionists, whose principles their prac-
tice militates against, or from unbelieving out-
siders, who are never better pleased than when
they see clerical pride meet with a rebuff.
Mr. Andrew Harper, B. D., has been very
badly treated by the Melbourne P esbytery. The
high office which he fills in 'hat enterprising
centre of knowledge deserved a more sympathetic
consideration. And, besides his scholastic occupa-
tion he had, by reason of being lately inducted
into the position of elder of Cairns Memorial
Church, established ties between himself and his
brethren which on every fraternal principle
entitled him to a generous recognition. Mr.
Harper did his share. He wrote to the Argus
about a month ago, stating that he followed Dr.
Robertson Smith and M’Leod Campbell in his
views of the Atonement and Confession of Faith.
This was, of course, constructive heresy. Mr.
Harper knew that. But the Rev. Charles Strong
was being made a popular hero of at the time for
the same sort of thing, and beyond making this
public application for the billet on the pedestal as
soon as Strong might vacate it, Mr. Harper did
nothing. It must strike every right-thinking man,
capable of quadrating his opinions with the times,
that Mr. Harper had a moral right to the ju.-
successions. The Rev. Joseph Hay thought so.
and claimed the popular honour for Mr. Harper
last week in the Presbytery. The Presbytery
could not deny the justness of the claim, but they
quipped and quibbled, and indefinitely put it off.
We think this little-minded on the part of the
Presbytery. When a man works as Mr. Harper
worked, for a popular billet, and has possibly
began to count the profits, it is ungenerous to
quibble him out of the position.
“All public actors shall be denied com-
munion as long as they continue to act.” The
Council of Arles said this close on 1600 years ago,
and Bishop Hale, of Brisbane, quotes it in his
strictures on the performance of “ Pinafore ” by
a juvenile troupe. The performance was to raise
funds for some church, which (oddh enough) was
in debt, and the children were Sunday-school kids,
of the “genteelest ” parentage They were
trained under the supervision of the incumbent
and committee of St. John’s, Brisbane. Indeed, it
is hinted that the pastor, on more than one occa-
sion, personated the “ Bo’sun,” just to show how
it was done, and received the on-lookers’ hearty
approval for his acquaintance with naval usages,
as exemplified by hitching his trousers, stepping
over the altar rails with a “ shiver my timbers,
hearty, but this ’ere lop-eared son of a gun,” and
other methods of enjoyment affected by warrant
officers in Her Majesty’s sea forces. So the Bishop
waited till the rehearsals were complete, the per-
formance given, and the proceeds applied. Then
he sprung his “ Council of Arles” rattle, and con-
demned the whole business, besides saying a num-
ber of severe things. It was notorious that, in diplo-
matic language, the relations between him and the
incumbent of St. John’s were strained. This, of
course, didn’t influence him in the least. Among
other- things, he said that he “ does not remember
having ever seen a professional play-actor at the
Lord s table.” We knew, all along, these people
were bad, but never thought they were so disre-
putable as this. Now, that we think of it, we do
not remember to have seen these persons at such
a place, although we have seen many professional
scoundrels and swindlers there. Yes, in Sydney.
• •
Rev. James Moore appointed R.C. Bishop
of Ballarat.. .The Rev. J. Barnu r has been granted
a year’s leave of absence on full stipend, by the
people of St. Barnabas’, on the ground of his
suffering from incipient paralysis. ..Archbishop
Gqold (Melbourne) has applied to Rome for a co-
adjutor Says a contemporary: “A woman,
praying with the Salvation Army at Drysdale,
Victoria, one evening last week, was struck dead.
This ought to be a warning to attend some useful
occupation, either of labour or recreation.”
• •
About 250 years ago, Sir John Gayes, when
travelling in the! East, on |a certain October 16th,
was suddenly confronted, while unarmed and on
his knees at prayer, bv a lion, who, after gazing
intently at him for a while, walked away. Sir
John commemorated his miraculous (1) deliver-
ance by leaving coin enough to secure the preach-
ing of an annual “lion” seamon at St. Catherine
Cree, London. This arrangement still continues...
What may happen to an editor in Ireland was
illustrated by the reading, in all the Dublin Arch-
diocese of Cardinal Cullen’s pastoral. In it a fierce
onslaught is made on the Freeman’s Journal,
for stating that more light and air would benefit
the convent schools scattered through the island.
It is inexpedient to go to law with the devil and
allow the case to be heard in Hades The Unco
Gum of the U.S. are mad because one Sunday in
last September Chief Justice Waite (U.S.) and
Chief Justices Coleridge (G.B.) went to Manhattan
Beach, and dined upon the hotel piazza to the dis-
coursing of sweet music. “God-fearing hearts,”
says the Banner of Christ, “ have been filled
with regret and sorrow ” at these proceedings.
For God-fearing” in above quotation read “ sect-
sqmrming.” Those who have any manly respect
tor the Supreme Being should rejoice that the
Chief Justices of England and America prefer
ozone and harmony to the stink and rot of the
crowded conventicle.... Father John Banks, of the
Church of Our Lady of Reconciliation (Liverpool,
Eng.), recently absconded with £800 of church
funds and a lady of conciliation. He is awaiting his
trial on a charge—(we presume)—of embracery
Rich, in his essay “ Modern Spirit Manifestations,”
while treating of “ Levitation,” has the following;
‘ We may add that of the martyr of freedom and
reason, Savonarola, who was seen, when absorbed
in devotion previous to his tragical death at the
stake, to remain suspended for a considerable
height from the floor of his dungeon. The histo-
rical evidence of this fact is admitted by his recent
biographer.” Now, where poor Savonarola made
the mistake was in not reserving this balloon trip
till he was being brought to the stake, and then
soaring away from his fanatic foes. Anyway, it's
evident that though Luther was a mighty shaker
he couldn’t touch Savonarola at the high jump.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
R. Edwards, of near Dennis Island, Bath-
urst, has realised this season 665 bushels of wheat
from 13 acres of land — The Geelong lumpers are
petitioning to be formed into a naval brigade
under the new Victorian Defence Association
J. Horbury Hunt, in a letter to the S.M. Herald
on the subject of street construction, says that
great carelessness has been displayed in choosing
and cutting the timber for the blocks in George-
street, Sydnc.. “In many places,” says he, “I
was able to displace several blocks with the pres-
sure of my heel.” This criticism comes too late —
too much at the heel of hunt to be of much prac-
tical value. . .It is said no crop pays so well on the
banks of the Endeavour River (N.Q.) as rice
The Tamworth Observer will shortly appear as
a daily evening paper — If all accounts are true
about the perfunctory way in which the N.S.W.
railway permanent-way men perform their duties
of inspection, it would be well were their super-
intendents a good deal more on the qui vive. A
key loose and—one shudders to think of the possi-
ble consequences —Footscray (Vic.) is to have its
name altered, because the natives were subjected
to ridicule, and worse when they admitted they re-
sided there. Every train from Melbourne,especially
on holidays, brought back more damaged eyes and
flattened noses than could be found at a Tipperary
election. Why the larrikin should have such a
down on the name has not been explained. There
is a place in N.S.W, called “Mother-of-Ducks,”
but, so far, no popular demonstration has been
made against its unfortunate residents
A Southern Indian paper reports that Messrs.
Callervanni, Pile, and Ce. have received an order
to supply 35 trained elephants for a Arm of
Queensland railway contractors It has leaked
out that the reason why Tasmania objects to be
annexed to her northern neighbour is because
Victoria has no earthquake, nor even an extinct
crater, while she is full of them. It is not likely
that a country possessing such advantages would
care to be joined with a possibly respectable, but
humdrum and com nonplace, admirer A new
idea in suicides, was that of a gentleman, who was
captain of a punt on the Goulburn River, Vic. He
jumped into the water after tying one of his legs
to the ferry boat, apparently that his body might
be recovered. Perhaps he wanted to show people
the slashing kind of a corpse he could make when
he gave his mind to it, or perhaps he wanted to
revenge himself on his friends by putting them
to funeral expenses. Whichever was the reason
he failed, for he was brought up only half-
drowned, to the regret of all who knew him — The
Rum, in speaking of a fellow recently arrested on
a capital charge, says the accused “had been
drinking heavily for the past six months, although
he had been working regularly as a carpenter
during the whole of that time.” If the Rum’s
statement be correct (which we doubt), the unsatis-
factoriness of ordinary carpentry work is ac-
counted for—Garrett, of Glenbrook, has struck
a bee-line to fortune with his comb section boxes,
in which he supplies remarkably tine honey. His
farm on the "Zig-zag ” is the first spot in Austra-
lia where this special branch of bee culture has
been attempted ... Blayney Advocate goes for
Blayney Argus for £1000 libel—P. J. Cullen,
butcher, of Burraga (Carcoar district), killed by
lightning last week, while looking for his horse—
While the Wagga Inspector of Nuisances was
driving some forty goats to pound, last week, be
was met by a couple of women, who, by setting
some dogs on the mob, caused such a scatter
that only seven of them reached the pound —
Moncure Conway advocates a Sunday drama sub -
sidised by the State. In this he approaches the
platform of the N.S.W. Licensed Victuallers’ Asso-
o atlon, who also think hat the Sunday drammer
should have State recognition On dit that as
Soon as the quarrels ’twlxt the diverse railway
authorities are composed, punkahs will be fitted
in the N.S.W. railway carriages. We may, there-
fore, expect this summery reform circa A d.2000...
Schooner Nowra, from Tasmania to Melbourne,
covered with insects that blackened her sails.
Query—Codiin moth on the annex....South Aus-
tralian Government has despatched party to de-
fine line of demarcation between Queensland and
N. Territory. To start from Farina. Camels
Poeppel, leader — Tie Working Men’s Club
started in Melbourne, was fined £50 for supplying
its members with drink without a license, in t e
same way as the more pretentious Melbourne
Club does. But the latter has never been fined
The balance of a ten years’ lease of old Govern-
ment House, Parramatta Park, is under offer-
Why don’t the trustees of the Park buy it in, issue
debentures, and go in for the erection on the
historic site of a popular Palace of Delight ? The
thing would be a paying concern in less than ten
years. As it is, “ Old Government House” is an
eye-sore, a veritable dead-beat, Instead of an
incomparable pleasure-centre During the hear-
ing of a murder case at Maryborough (Q.), lately
a gentle savage named Yaddah, who was a wibl
dcjS, being . skedif he was a Christian, promptly
replied: “ No (sanguinary) fear! Me cook long um
senooner.” Mr. Yaddah yaddah narrow escape
from getting seven days in gaol for contempt of
Court.
Mistress Branigan of Liverpool (Eng.),
a Ids cleverly to her emoluments as a sick nurse
thus:—She occasionally insures a friend’s life, and
>?en when that friend is subsequently suddenly
taken ill, as usually chances, she secs him through
it—to the undertaker’s hands... Three brothers
met last month at Blue Rock Springs, Kentucky,
to complete some formalities in the matter of
i heir father’s will. Sam thinking his brothers
were about to draw on him, whipped out his re-
volver first, and shot Tom in the head and Bill in
the stomach, with such telling effect that the
deeds only required one signature The Pall
Mall Gazette, takes the anthropometrists to
task for their craze for tallness. “ But (says the
Gazette), if we are to admire physical condition,
surely we should be taught to look to size round
the chest in men, and to size where size is wanted
in women, and not to tallness in either case.”
Letters now carried over whole North American
emtinent at penny rates... Statistics prove that
the largest weekly consumption of alcohol in
England usually takes place during the third
week in July, and, as a consequence, the rate of
mortality from alcohol is higher then than at any
other period of the year. Th irsty weather appears
to be fatal to a good many people Half of the
members of De Brazza’s Congo expedition dead...
The French garrison at Haiphong made a sortee
on the 9th, killing 50 Chinese.
LARKS WITH SHARKS.
WAITING.
A NIBBLE I
BROKE!


HAWKES AND COMPANY,
TATTERSALL’S HORSE BAZAAR
and
SALE YARDS,
CORNER of CASTLEREAGH and HUNTER
STREETS. SYDNEY.
Sales Daily, or outside when required.
Horse# kept at Livery; excellent accommodatioa
and fodder.
All kinds of Vehicles and Horses on Hire, day
or night.
Weddings and Picnic Parties supplied with good
carriages.
TRAMS SET DOWN AT THE DOOR.
Conveyances fitted with Hampers for Excursion
Parties.
Sale, Livery, and Let-out Department entirely
separate.
F
ilNEST CIGARETTES. FINEST CIGARETTES
ARE
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR.
Manufactured by W. S. KIMBALL and CO.,
Rochester, F.S.A.
DOUBLE EVENT.
A.J.C. SUMMER CUP
A.J.C. SUMMER CUP, to be run at Randwick,
26th December. One mile and a half.
TATTERSALL’S CLP, to be run at Randwick,
1st January. Two Miles.
TATTERSALL’S CUP.
£50 to 5s.
EDWARD FERRY,
Turf Commission Agent,
Manchester Arms (two doors from Royal Hotel),
George-streot, Sydney.
THE FOLLOWING STALLIONS will Stand
the ensuing Season at RICHMOND, where
first-class Paddocks will be provided for Mares,
with every care and attention, but without re-
sponsibility :—
Subscription Full.
Terms, 30 Guineas per Mare
MARIBYRNONG
grand flaneur
RAPID BAY ...
kOORTHORPE
JULIAN AVENAL
MONMOUTH ..
BEAUCLERC ..
CHILDE HAROLD
do.
do.
do.
do,
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
A few half-bred Mares will be taken to Beauclerc
at half-price.
Bach Horse will be limited to 15 of the public
mRrftS.
All Mares must be paid for and removed by
January 1, 1884.
ANDREW TOWN, Richmond.
C
D E S D
E S
The following Imported Pure Clydesdale STAL-
LIONS will STAND at Richmond the coming
Season, when first-class Paddocks will be provided
for Mares, with every care and attention, but
without responsibility :—
MUIR LAD,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
DAVIE,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
GALLANT SCOTCHMAN,
Terms Guineas per Mare.
Comment on these Horses is unnecessary. They
have proved themselves on all the principal Show
Grounds of the Colony, and their Stock have done
the same, their progeny at six months old selling
at from 50 guineas to 100 guineas each.
All Mares must be paid for and removed by
January 1, 1884.
ANDREW TOWN, Richmond.
T
O STAND THIS SEASON, at Duckenfleld,
near Morpeth.—The Thoroughbred Stallion
HENCHMAN
at Thirty Guineas per mare.
Duckenfleld. September 18th. 1883.
(late Friday), full brother to Robinson Crusoe, the
sire of Navigator, by Angler, out of Chrysolite,
will serve ten approved mares, besides his owner’s.
Also,
CROWN PRINCE,
by Kelp e, out of Queen’s Head, by Yattendon,
out of Gazelle, will serve ten approved mares,
besides his owner’s,
at Ten Guineas per mare.
Splendid paddocks, and every care taken of
mares sent to the above horses, but no responsi-
bility incurred.
All mares must be paid for before removal.
Season ends on 1st January, 1884. Mares not re-
moved on that d.ate will be charged ten shillings
per week each up to date of removal.
JOHN BALES.
P. R. HOLDSWORTH,
AUCTIONEER, VALUATOR,
House, Land & Estate Agent
63 ROYAL ARCADE PITT STREET.
EVERY
MAN
SHOULD
READ
Dr. Marstoc’s New Work
Describing how sufferers from
Nervous and Physical Debility,
Mental Decay and all disorders
resulting from Excesses, Indis-
cretions or Overwork, are per-
manently Cured
Without Stomach Medicines.
WEAK, NERVOUS, AND IMPOTENT
MEN RESTORED TO
VIGOR, HEALTH & MANHOOD
Consultation with Physician
aud’Book FREE. Address—
Marston Remedy Co.,
72 CJZ-S.BETE ST., 37SSI7
c
PIANO
HOOSE YOUR
AT
CHARLES HUENERBEIN’S
178 Pitt Street.
BE'T INSTRUMENTS 1 CHEAPEST PRICES I
SEASON’S CARDS.- XMAS, NEW YEAR,
FRIENDSHIP, BIRTHDAY, and NICE
p ICTU RES for Scrap Books, made up in packages,
at Is., 2s.. 3s., and 4s., pvr dozen, good value. Xmas
and Birthday, go.od cards, 6d., 9d., Is., Is. 6d., 2s.,
2s, 6d., and 3s., each, post paid. GEORGE
WALLACE, 63, William-street.
FOE HIM.
At our office there is lying
Wondrous store of wealth untold—
Gems and jewels flashing glory,
Heaps on heaps of minted gold.
All this store of wealth is waiting
For a man to have and hold;
He shall have them for the asking,
All the treasured gems and gold.
Who is he, you ask, dear readers,
’Tis the man, to you we hint,
Who has neither joke nor story
Which he wishes us to print
Mr. DeCourct Browne (lat“ Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 126 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties adyised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Department undertaken. Titles a
speciality.—An vt.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congeale
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief
a small bottle often cures. Ask for “Arnold 9
and get it: spurious imitations are sometln
offered.
Nowhere perhaps has the dentist’s art obtained
such high excellence as in Sydney. Certainly we
are in no sense behind any other city. Visitors to
Sydney might, to test this, visit the establishment
of Messrs. Adolphe Gabriel and Company, 18 Wyp
vard Square, two doors from Pfahlert s Hotel
Here the manufacture of every essential in the
profession is carried on. At the rear of the surgery
is a compact little factory where all the requisites
for supplying every dental defect in the human
mouth are made. Messrs. Gabriel and Co. (whose
only address is as above) are always pleased to
■»bow their specimens of artificial teeth to those
interested. There being two firms.of the same
name in the Square, patients will oblige by paying
particular attention to the Christian oamtsAdplphe,
find the number, 18, two doors from Pfahlert s
Hotel.- Ann.
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
Wt shall be glad to have this index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general.']
RACING INDEX.
Readers will find the column regularly
headed with a list of fixtures to be attended to
within the month; followed by names and dates
of Race-meetings to be held in the more distant
future.
APPROACHING FIXTURES.
Casino Weights December 15.
Hi Us ton Acceptances December 19.
Wallsend non-accept December 19.
Casino Acceptances December 22.
New England Handicaps close December 22.
Hillston Races December 26.
Bega Acceptances December 31.
S.T.C. Genera i Entry January's, 1884.
Adelong Races January 1, 2.
New England Weights January ?.
New England Acceptances January 17.
Balonne Handicaps close February 18.
Balonne St. George Handicap Weights. ...March 12.
Balonne St. George Handicap Accept March 31.
Balonne Handicap Weights April 8.
FUTURE RACES.
Warialda J.C December 12,13.
Camoen and Campbelltown J.C. Races Dec. 15.
Liverpool J.C December 22.
Victoria Amateur T.C December 26.
Pleasant Creek (V.) December 26.
Clarence TattersaU’s J.C December26.
Casino Races December 26.
Gunuedah December 26, 27.
Wallsend December 26, 27.
Tattersall’s (Annual) January 1, 1884.
Orange J.C January 1,
V n c January 1.
Wentworth January 1.
Candelo Races • .January 3.
Bega J.C. Races oanuary lb, 11.
New England Races Janury 2o, 2b.
(Sydney T.C January 26.
Goulbum T.C v .February 1, 2.
Tasmanian R.C. (Summer) February 13,14,15.
Coonabarabran January 24, 2o.
Cooma Races February 20, 21.
Braidwood Races February 6. 8.
V.R.C. Autumn March 1, 6, 8.
Wanganui (N.Z.) J.C. Autumn March 6, 7.
Palonne (Q.) Races • • • • Apru 8, 9.
liawkesbury R.C. (Autumn) Apru 3, 5.
AQUATICS
Feeble and Punch Prize December 15.
Manly Rowing and Sailing Club Regatta. ...Dec. 15.
Newcastle Regatta January 1,1884.
National Regatta .. .January 26.
CRICKET.
Sydney Grammar School v. Melbourne, G.S.
Association Ground December 17,18.
Melbourne v. N.S.W. at Melbourne. Dec. 26.
ATHLETICS.
Hay Athletic Club Sports Dec. 26, 27.
Wresttirig*M atch, Cobar...’.'.'.‘‘ ‘‘.’.’.December26.
Highland Society’s Gathering January 1
Mudgee Sports " • • • January ~6.
BICYCLING.
N.S.W. Cyclists’ Union Race Meeting Dec. 15.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The profit ou the late V.R.C. Sprin g Meet-
ing amounted to close on £9000.
On dit that Wood and Watts, the well-
known English jockeys, intend making a trip to
the colonies next year.
The first match in which the Australians
will be engaged Iris been fixed to take place in
Lord Sheffield’s Park on May 13.
By cablegram, we learn the provisional
fixtures made for the next Australian Eleven
have caused discontent in English cricketing
circles.
M.‘Dermott, the pedestrian, commenced ou
a Friday night the feat of walking HO miles in 24
hours. A ring was formed measuring 50 laps to the
mile, so that he had to do 5500 laps to accomplish the
distance, which he completed by twenty minutes
past 9 o’clock on Saturday night, having only be. n
off the track lorty minutes during the whole time.
Last week, Owen Bartlett, of Parkes,
bested David Neal, of Forbes, by two yards, in an
80 yards’ spin for £5. Last Saturday, R. Kidney,
who ran third in the late Bathurst Sheffield Handi-
cap and who hails from Parkes, put through w.
Turner, of Condobolin, for a £30 stake, in a 100
yards* run. The match between Cotton s mare,
Sweetlips, and Toni’s Mother o’ Pearl, on the same
day, for £40, resulted in a victory for the former.
All these events came off on the Parkes race-
course.
A jumping match took place recently, on
Winbar Station, between J. H. Paul, of Winbar,
and J. W. Burns, of Curranyalpa Station. The
match was for £10 a side, to be decided by the best
three out of five events. Paul won the wide jump
with 12ft. 4in. —a splendid perfoimance, if the dis-
tance was really covered. The running high jump
was a draw, both being unable to clear 4tt.4}£in.
Burns won the three standing jumps with 34tt.
Bin., and finished the match by winning the stand-
ing high Jump with 4ft. Tin. The thermometer
stood at 105° in the shade.
Good racing was the order of the day at
the Glebe Rowing Club annual regatta, on Satur-
day last. For the senior sculls, in skiffs Robertson
led to the turning buoy, where C. Williams cut
him out rather cleverly, and won a good race by a
length. F. Burrows, J. Thom, A. C. Millard, and
J. E. Eisenstaedter won the maiden fours. H. R.
Cox and R. Shute made an easy win of the maiden
double sculls; L. Cockburn and R. Fairweather
appropriated the junior double skulls, after a
splendid race with F. C. Williams and G Durrell;
the senior fours fell to G. W. Durrell, E. G.
Haslingden, H. R. Cox. and G. Robertson,
A recent cable states“ Mr. W. A. Long,
of Sydney, has offered to back Edward Trickett,
Michael Rush, or Robert Edwards against Banian,
for £1000 and the sculling championship of the
world.” This is about the biggest goak flashed
through the cable for some time past. Were Mr.
Long running a whisky mill, or even trying to
work up a land agency business in Sydney, we
could understand it; but for W. A. L., of all men,
to offer the Canadian £1000 to row in Australia, for
that is what it really amounts to. is beyond us.
The idea of Trickett or Rush beating the Canadian
is sufficiently ridiculous; but when we come to
Bob Edwards, it becomes a regular screamer. Mr.
Long must surely have been having pis little joke
at the expense of Granny’s London correspon-
dent.
On Thursday last, the heats for the Hunt
sculling prize were rowed off over tne Parramatta
Kiver champion course. Trickett defeated Donald
McDonald for the first heat, in 33min. ITsec.
McDonald was evidently out of form, and did not
complete the course. Beach and Kush started tor
the second. A foul occurred off Putney, after
which. Beach went away, and won by any number
of lengths in 24min. lOsee. Rush protested, but
the umpire decided that the foul did not affect the
result of the race. On Saturday last. Beach and
Trickett faced the starter lor the final which re-
quires a vtiy short description. 1» .icu wcuta«vay
with the lead, increased it rapidly to the _mile
point, shot in 5mln. oOsec., and won as he liked
in SOmln. 50sec. Beach has already proved
without doubt that he is possessed* of great
“ bottom,” and on Saturday last, he showed
more “ foot ” than the ex-Champion, so
that he may certainly be now looked upon as
best man, not excepting Laycoca—for we doubt
very much if the ex-Shark Islander, even had ho
not met with the accident, could have beat ,jr
Beach over the champion course on Saturday last
No excuse can be made for Trickett’s defeat, as
he was stated to be in magnificent, condition, and
after his victories over Rush —a man whose son
won a race the other dav—and M'Donald—who was
unwell, and started in a Crimean shirt with sleeves
rolled up to tne elbows—the papers were foil of
gush that he l ad recovered his old form, and was
rowing as weh as ever he did in his life We have
all along maintained that Triekett, t hough game
and persistent, is a man of the past so far as row-
ing is concerned, and Saturday’s show has not
caused us to alter our opinion.
A good deal of excitement has been caused
in London, both in the city and amongst athletic
men, by the absconding of the Messrs. Waddell,
accountants, “ official ” liquidators of companies
too many for enumeration, patrons of athletic
sports, and smart people generally: and their dis-
appearance may be said to mark the first bene-
ficial effect of the new Bankruptcy Act. The
brothers Waddell have recently shown all possible
signs of thriving. A few years ago obscure North
countrymen, they have exhibited an amount of
“push” which gained for them various official
appointments as liquidators of companies, re-
ceivers in bankruptcy, and thehkt;. From each
successive post was reaped an additional harvest,
big, as usual, beyond all proportion by means of
the vagueness of the existing bankruptcy laws.
The elder Waddell soon took a house in Prince’s
Gate, bought a yacht, kept a stud, and committed
other expensive follies. Then the new Bank-
ruptcy Act came into force, with its provision
that all funds received by trustees must be at
once paid into the Bank of England, in place
of lying idle, or worse, in the receivers’ cash-
boxes. So the Waddells quietly provisioned
their yacht and set sail on a long cruise. Mr.
James Waddell, as treasurer, and Mr. William
Waddell, as secretary, of the London Athletic
Club -the leading organisation of the kind—had
for many years past been identified with all the
principal athletic movements, such as the found-
ing of the Amateur Athletic Association, and the
rearrangement of the championships ; and not
long ago they were the recipients of a handsome
testimonial. The services they have rendered to
the London Athletic Club are simply incalculable,
and it remains to be seen what effect their disap-
pearance will ultimately have on that body, in
which they were supreme. Questions will also
probably arise relative to the proprietorship of
Stamford Bridge Grounds, secured for the London
Athletic Club by the Messrs. Waddell a few years
ago At a club meeting to consider the position ot
affairs it was decided that the remaining fixtures
of the present year should be carried out as
arranged. We suppose the Waddells may now be
termed the champion walkers. It is delightful to
find that Australia hasn’t an absolute monopoly
of thieving official assignees.
SPOTTING GLEANINGS.
Tom Ivory denies the statement that he
purchased Coolabab ...H. T. Gordon won the
recent Tamworth pigeon handicap — 92 entries
for the Hay Athletic Club Handicap....South
Australia will have at least two representatives—
G. Giffen and A. H. Jarvis—in the Australian I
cricketing team which is to visit England next !
year The Goulburn Turf Club has fixed its ne <-t
meeting for the 1st and 2nd February, 1884. ...A I
young roan, named J. C. Nicbel, whilst out shoot-
ing near Berwick (Vic.), was killed by something
accidentally touching the trigger of his gun,
causing the charge to lodge in his head and neck.
In a trotting ma ch of 40 miles, at Goulburn, for
£40, the other day, between Kelly’s chestnut mare
and Payten’s pony, the former won in four hours.
... A young man named Marks, while mounting
the hurdleracer Stormbird, was thrown, and so
seriously injured that he died a few hours after-
wards. ... It is stated the old N.Z. sportsman, Mr. H.
Redwood, intends again to take an active part
in racing Young Green and Bob Fraser
fought under ring rules on December 1, in a pad-
dock near Melbourne. Green won after twelve
well- contested rounds had been fought......
Movement on foot to form a rowing club at the
mouth of the Bega River... Temora races Thurs-
day last. Miss Livingstone appropriated the Maiden
Plate; Spaniard the Town Plate; Alice Hawthorne
the Prince of Wales Stakes; Juggler the Hurdle
Race: and Flat Iron the Hack Race—The N.Z.
papers are beginning to think the Pdwards-Scott
business is about played out— At Bourke, Tot ’
Pursehouse, of Goulburn, received two yards start
from Robertson in a 100 yards’ spin and won by
half a yard. In a second match. Robertson con-
ceded three vaids iu 150, and just managed to beat
Pursehouse.-...Parkes holds a small race-meet on
Boxing Day.
Edward Hanlan and John L. Sullivan,
champion knocker-out, were to run 100 yards for a
large purse last month. ...Glad Tidinvs, who won
the Ladies’ Bracelet at Caulfield the season before
last, has been distinguishing himself in India,
where, at Meerut he won the Trial Stakes and
Civil Service Stakes, carrying 9st. 131b. in each
v ent .. After toe glove fight took place between
Mitchell and Sheriff a row took place between
Billy Hill (t h«• great Harry Hill s eldest son) and a
policeman named Roaney, when Hill, who is noted
for his strong jaw, bit off the policeman’s ear, and
but for the timely interference of Jem Mace
would have bitten off his nose Australian,
American, Kaffir, and Farsee cricketing teams will
probably visit England during next season. The
Parsees bowl swift and straight underhanders—
L. E. Myers, the champion runner, has been ap-
pointed atnletic editor of a New York sporting
paper It is stated that John L. ou.livan, the
ouvilist, has made a contract to give sparring exhi-
bitions in England, Ireland, and France— rso less
than 131 football matches are reported in a Loudon
Sunday paper .is having taken place in the neigh-
bourhood of the metropolis on a recent Saturday
afternoon; and in L incashire, Yorkshire, Notting-
hamshire, and many other parts of the country,
the game is equally popular. Twenty-five years
ago there probably were not a score of matches
played in the same week in the whole kingdom
. At Hendon (Eng.) cricket sports, recently,
one Armstrong belied his cognomen by break-
ing his arm in the mere effort of throwing
a ball. The snap was heard at some distance-
in fact, it was nearly as loud as a pistol-shot.
Luckily a surgeon was on tue ground
At a recent bicycling meeting at Springfield, U.8.,
which lasted three days, 81,000 persons paid for
the privilege of viewing the racing. The town of
Springfield contains only 30,000 inhabitants, so an
enormous temporary influx of strangers must
have taken place, and the £1500 odd spent in prizes
recouped twenty-fold. Although containing only
sixty bicyclists, Springfield itself was fortunate
enough to furnish the hero of the meeting, one
Hendee, who won the ten miles championship and
also the twenty miles race. The prize for the
latter event was of the value of £3m. England
was represented by C. D. Yesey, who was, how-
ever, much out of form, and won nothing. More
successful in his races was another Englishman,
A. H. Kobinson, Out he created a very bad personal
impression, which is precisely what he does In
England. Hendee was elevated to the position of
a demi-god, and various local manufactures are
now named after him.
a good shine, mate, Society hasitsdoos.”


At a late aldermanic election out West
the two candidates were Scotchmen. Curiously
enough, the nominators of each were a not
Orangeman and a warm Homan Catholic. By this
dodge each sought to gain both sides; but, as one
of the candidates ran a whisky mill, and was
generally regarded as a “jolly good fellow,” ho
went in two to one.
The Waliterus Times says that “In travel-
ling diagonally through the country bordering and
intervening between the Lachlan and the Darling
we observe the sameness of soil which character-
izes that of California.” This reminds us of old
geologist Blank, who when returning diagon-
ally from a dme-out, could always tell by observa-
tion tif he tell on bis face), what country he was
Don’t Die in the House.— “ Rough on E ‘ i ”
clears out rats, mice, beetles, roadies, bod-i 3,
flies, ants, insects, moles, jack-rab ms. 3
Moses, Moss & Co., Sydney, General '. c .ju,
THE NEWSLETTER.
In the libel case, M Alister v. Northern
Standard, tried at Townsville, a verdict was
given against defendants for £500. This, with
costs, will reach close on £1000—the highest price
yet paid in the North for free speech.
Un the Johnstone River, N.Q., some newly
appointed J.P.’s recently discharged a prisoner
charged with larceny as “not guilty,” yet ordered
the stolen money found on prisoner (£7) to be
handed to prosecutor. Evidently a case of “ not
guilty, but don’t do it again.”
The Rockhampton people were ferociously
indignant when a Chinese patient was sent from
Blackall to Dunwich, via Rockhampton. But they
served the Rarcoo people a shabbier trick in
return. A station manager sent to Rockhampton
to engage a domestic. When the girl arrived it
was found she was quite deaf and almost blind.
The poor creature had to be sent back at once to
Rockhampton. Her expenses by coach and rail
came to £17, which was paid by the gentleman to
whom the girl was consigned.
The unhappy blacks in Rottnest, West
Australia, are threatened with annihilation by
measles. It has been suggested that they be sent
North-west to their native soil and climate, with
the view of saving at least a moiety of the poor
wretches thus being murdered by holy civilisa-
tion. But the white Chrisuans object to their
return to the hunting grounds of which they have
robbed them. What’s a few scorebiact h3athen
lives weighed in the balance with the Christian
sensitiveness of the pale-face money-grubber?
“ What to do in case of acci lent,” is the
title of a small manual by J.T. M. We have looked
through it, and it appears as useful as it is certainly
unpretentious. With all the means for obtaining
information on the subject, it is extraordinary
how few know what to do in case of the simplest
mishap. Men have become almost mad with a
flea in the ear—not a metaphorical beast, but a
real, vigorous ’’nsect—when a few drops of warm
oil or milk would have brought the animal’s
career to an abrupt termination. We notice
J.T.M. gives a prescription for passing at once
from a state of destructive inebriety to the most
phenomenal soberness. This alone should sell the
took.
The Melbourne L. Y. Gazette pours out
the vials of its wrath upon the institution which,
purporting to be a “ Club,” is only “ a sly grog
shop in disguise.” “A Club,” says the L. V.
Gazette in tones of righteous indignation, “ that
depends mainly on the sale of liquor forits revenue
and profits is clearly not such an institution as the
law contemplates when according it the immuni-
ties that the Englishman enjoys in his ‘castle.”
Very good, dear organ of the Victorian bonifaces.
Your words are the words of truth; but, then,
don’t they cut as deep Into the liver of the publican
who interprets “ victualler” to mean “ grog-seller
only” as into that of the “ club” proprietor who
does ditto under (to the customer) more com-
fortable conditions ?
A week or so ago, Mr. District Court Judge
Wilkinson sentenced one Varley to six months’
Imprisonment for disturbing a Salvation Army
meeting. A petition, signed (as the Herald
relates) by the leading residents of Maitland,
prayed the Judge for a remission of the sentence.
His Honor complied with their prayer to the
extent of reducing the sentence to two months.
Isn’t there just a suspicion of judicial interference
with the perogative about Wilkinson’s action in
this matter? Had Wilkinson, proprio motu, cor-
rected his first sentence by reducing it from six to
two, no exception could be taken to his action-
hut for him to have played J udge. Governor, and
Executive Council, all rolled into one, seems to us
to have been coming it a little too strong.
A Victorian Conservative paper has given
the true reason why traffic was stopped in Swan-
Bton-street, when Sir W. Clarke gave his ball at the
Town Hall. It was done in the Interests of the
working classes, and was for the purpose of pro-
tecting them from injury by the fast-rolling
equipages of Toorak and South Yarra. The
authorities are a good deal to blame for not carry-
ing out this policy daily, instead of once in a
way, and then we would seldom hear of Bourke
and Collins’ street brats being run over. Some
Utile inconvenience might possibly be felt in the
beginning from the stoppage of communication,
but this would soon be got over. The proposal
that Toorak thoroughbreds should walk round
corners, or that rich citizens should nuild private
rooms in which to give bails to their friends, is too
absurd to be entertained.
Actuary Black, of the A.M.P., has com-
plained to the N.Z. Premier that certain Maori-
land otficials have issued forged “application tor
sunender” forms of the society, for the purpose
of inducing insurers in the M P. to leave that
institution and join the N.Z. Government Life
Insurance Department. The printing of exact
copies of these forms has been traced to the
printing press maintained by the N.Z. Government
in Lyttelton Gaol for the use of prisoners—at least
so ic is alleged. For a Government to utilise con-
vict labour for the purpose of wbat in reality is
brother belonging to forgery strikes us os being
abominably bad form. By the bye, there are
Judges who we don’t doubt would be glad were the
N.Z. wrinkle generally adopted. A press worked
in gaol, under the censorship of the police cum
the penal authorities, would represent to their
mediaeval idiosyncracies the beau ideal of a happy
Fourth Estate.
Last week, before the Newcastle Bench,
“ Skeleton Major Collins,” charged with riotous
behaviour, Gorrick, M.P., for defence, objected t j
presence of Jo Creer on the Bench, on the groun s
that the said Jo’s public utterances and private
expressions of opinion had stamped him as one
possessed of strong opposition to White Ribbon
Army proceedings. Creer, however, declared his
intention of keeping his seat and taking part in
the cose, no m itter what the public thought, and
asserted (according to the N. H. report) that he
had no hesitation in repeating that these White
Hibbon Army men were low blackguards, and
nothing else; and that nothing could bias him!
Luckily for justice, the Bench (Creer violently
objecting) acquitted Collius. Now then, Coheu,
there’s a good show for the issue of a supersedeas.
The magistrate who blazons forth his inability to
act without fear, favour, and affection asks for the
sack,—and should get it.
Now that old Sol has fairly “fired up,”
we would strongly recommend the Inspector of
Nuisances to trot round and inspect the sanitary
arrangements of some of our Government depart-
ments. The Sydney Insolvency Court, for instance,
would be a nice little spot to start with. A finer
collection of the various members of the insect
world could not be found than the lot stored there,
and there is not a single official record in the place
that is not covered with every species of dirt that
has been fashionable since the carboniferous
period. The different Police Courts are things of
oeauty that bid fair to be joys for ever, and a plea-
sant hour or two might be spent dodging about
the Telegraph Department also. In the operating-
room. for instance, over fifty clerks are herded
together, and on special days each victim has to
remove his coat and waistcoat, so as not to unduly
crowd the party next him. And as all these clerks
have to boil their “ billies” and feed in this room,
the scene about meal times would remind one for-
cibly of a blackfellow’s camp on the eve of a big
corroboree. The bosses, of course, have plenty of
room to spread themselves and ample time to wolf
their quiet little seven meals a day, but the poor
devils of operators may be frequently seen with a
pile of salt-horse sandwiches in both hands, and
vainly endeavouring to copy off their “ wires ”
with the other. This probably acco mts for the
variegated style of some of our delicious cable-
grams.
There ia a time in every man’s life in
wh’ch be is willing to play the part of the humble
learner. It mostly comes round when he is able to
assure himself that there is nothing he doesn’t
know, and when his fellow-citizens rock them-
selves to sleep, secure in the watchfulness of his
eye and the wisdom of his head. Sometimes, but
very infrequently, it comes on when he has been
disastrously bowled out, and when general cachin-
nation indie ites that the substructure of his amaz-
ing knowledge has been recognised as a merely
vaporous assurance. But, however induced, it
can be reckoned up ia every life. It has begun to
dribble into Major Sargood’s life now. Major Sar-
good is the Victorian Minister of War, and is a
volunteer officer. He told a battery of 73 Volun-
teers the other day at St. Kilda that Colonel
Disney, the new Commandant, was able to teach
both the battery and himself their duty. The six
officers asked the ten sergeants if they heard that,
and the ten sergeants asked the fifty-three rank
and file if they heard that, and the total sixty-nine
men looked at Majors Browning and Walker, and
at the solitary remnant of the martial 73, and, in
explanation of the confession that the pipe-clayed
Minister of War could be taught anything in tbe
science of murder, a solemn wink passed along the
Une. The wink conveyed that the time had come
to Sargood, but whether as it mostly comes, or as
it very infrequently comes, discipline did not per-
mit the fact to be further disclosed.
Mr. Benjamin Douglass, the President of
the Melbourne Trades Hall Committee, occupies
an anomalous position. He is the connecting link
between the w orking men of Melbourne and those
who are over tnem. So far, no phrase has been
struck off which can properly, and to their own
satisiaction, descritie these latter. When they
meet the working men, they aver that they, too,
are working men, and in speeches of various
lengths, make good tne averment. Vet, when the
they descend from the platform, they withdraw
into a vaporous, diaphanous realm, whither the
working man knows he dare not penetrate. This
identification with them at times of display, and
segregation from them at all other times, is, to the
genuine working man, a problem lying on the
plane of social transcendentalism. Mr. Douglass’s
function in life is to sit with his legs across on that
plane, and hammer out for his friends, an intelli-
gible solution of that problem. Hitherto he has
not succeeded. One time, he is objurgated from
above ; at another time, from below. Complais-
ance towards the former excites ire in the latter,
and thorough representation of the latter excites
estrangement in the former. Thus he goes to one
end of the rope to day and pulls it a yard towards
him, and he goes to the other end to-morrow, and
pulls it a yard towards him. Mr. Douglass is an
honourable min, and has considerable ability, but
neither honour uor ability can do wnat he wants to
do. Wise men of both parties are amused at his
earnestness.
Sally Jordon is one of the annexers of the
period. She is in full harmony with the spirit of
the time, and her convictions are put honestly into
action. As may he inferred, she believes fully
that what she does is for the benefit of the human
race at large, little as. from appearance, some
people would suspect it. Why should a piece of
property for which there was no visible claimant
remain on the wide wastes of the streets of Mel-
bourne without the covering of her apron? The
answer to that will come very near being an answer
to the querulous poople who say tha' New Guinea
should be left alone. Sally, however, came up to
the police court a few days ago with a lot of the
spirit of the time in her, a bundle of old clothes
under her apron, and a plenitude of convictions,
The arresting constable stated that her convictions
already numbered sixty, and asked the Bench to
give her just one more. But Sally was eloquent.
She stated that she was full up of convictions, and
that unless she were made Cblef Secretary she
couldn’t take care of any more. She furtner
declared that, if allowed, she would straightway
leave the colony. “ And where will you go ?”
asked the Bench. “I’ll go to Collingwood,” re-
plied Sally. And oil she went, flying a kiss to the
seat of justice. There is something touching in
Sally. She annexed zealously. Yon could see it
under her apron. She had the spirit. You could
smell it. She was also topically ignorant. Why
was she not among the Premiers in Sydney ?
In the S.M. Herald of December 5th ap-
peared a letter by Dr. Creed, of Woollahra on the
“ Rabbit Plague in Australia.” Taking the last
report of the Chief Inspector, he showed that
when all that was ever proposed to be done was in
full work the result would be the destruc-
tion of a rabbit and a minute fraction per acre per
annum in the infected districts. That the trouble
was spreading with lightning speed through the
colony, and that the present measures were totally
inadequate to cope with it. That the proposed
turning loose of ferrets and mongooses was not
without its peril, and that it was advisable that the
colonies generally should offer a large reward for
the discovery of some means that would extirpate
the pest for all time, and not merely to keep it
under only during the time the means used were
actively employed. He himself is of opinion that
this can only be accomplished by the introduction
of some disease amongst them, which, while it is
easily communicable and absolutely fatal to rab-
bits, will not be infectious to man or other animals’
when used as proposed. He suggests that tuber-
culosis should be tried on some islands where sheep'
and rabbits would exist under their natural
circumstances, and where the disease could be
kept isolated until pro>ed unlikely to be hurtful
to the community. He also foreshadows the pos-
sibility of the cultivation of some disease which,
if tuberculosis is found insufficient, shall possess
the required characteristics; and speaks of a di-
sease mat has, within the last few years, almost
extirpated hares in California, and, reasoning by
amiogy, would be likely to do the same for
raobits lu Australia. The letter has been con-
sidered of such practical value that it was laid
before the Australian Conference by the Presi-
dent, and ordered by the members to be printed
with the transactions.
We give it on the authority of the Towns-
ville Standard. If true, as it appears to be, not
all me incense of Arabia could cleanse the infamous
hands of those respond rie for it. Over twelve
months ago there was .. . espectable widow living
in Queensland. Her husband had been drowned
a short time before, leaving her with three chil-
dren. He was £98 in debt, and on her a writ was
served for the money. She could not pay, and so
was sent to the Townsville gaol, where for over
twelve months she has had to herd with the scum
of Northern Queensland—the frowsiest harlots and
dirtiest strumpets of that promising place. She had
£40, and, leaving this for the support of her chil-
dren with the matron of the depot, she filed her
schedule in forma pauperis, and seat for asolicitor
to press her case with a view to speedy release.
All documents relating to her affairs were given
him, together with a blank order on the depot
matrm for as much of the £40 (to be filled in by
himself) as would pay him for his trouble. For
mouths this unfortunate woman complained to
the visiting- justice, and wrote to the man w ho had
charge of her business, but without satisfaction
in the one case or reply in the other. Then she
wrote to the matron to r ee how much money had
been drawn, and found that the wuole £40 had
gone into the animal’s capacious maw. He is still
alive. No legal process can reach him, and, unfor-
tunately for Townsville, there does notanpearto
be enough public spirit in the place to improvise a
yigi ance committee for the purpose of enquiring
into the widow's allegations, and dangling him, if
convicted, from the nearest telegraph-pole. At
last came a letter from the matron, saying that
the children could be no longer retained in the
depot, but must be consigned to the Townsville
orphanage. Thus for fifty-three weeks, for a debt
contracted by her late husband, this woman has
been deprived of liberty, separated from her littlo
ones, and robbed by that law which saould have
protected her! The unfortunate woman has now
been released through the influence of the Attor-
nev-General.
MESSRS. S. HOFFNUNG AND CO.’S GREAT WAREHOUSES, PICT-STREET, SYDNEY.—(See page 17.)


PROSPECTUS
OF THE
New South Wales Pyrites
Patent Company
(LIMITED),
For Extracting Gold, Slver, and other Metals
from Pyritous and other Ores.
Capital £60,000, In 60,000 Shares of
£1 each.
30,000 Shares will he allotted to the Patentee and
Associates, fully paid up. 10,000 Shares will be
held in reserve for future disposal, for the
benefit of the Company, and the remaining
20,f ; 00 Shares are now offered to the public on
the following terms, viz.: 2s. 6d. per Share on
Application. 2s. 6d. on Allotment, 2a. on Regis-
tration of Company, and three calls of Is. each
at intervals of not less than one Month there-
after. The Balance will only be called up if
necessary for the operations of the Company
in calls not exceeding Is. per Share, at inter-
vals of not less than one month.
r It is particularly desired to afford working
miners and others of comparatively small means
an opportunity of interesting themselves in this
Company, so that as far as possible this important
movement may assume, as it should do, a national
character. To place it therefore within the reach
of everyone, it has been decided to invite applica-
tions for any number of Shares from twenty-five
upwards.
Provisional Directors:
The Hon. George Richard Dibbs, M.L.A., Col.
James Henry Young, Esq., M.L.A.
Daniel Melhado, Esq., (Messrs. Melhado and
Curtis).
Thos. Robertson, Esq., (Messrs. Robertson,
Fisher, and Ralfe),
Alex. Gray, Esq , (Messrs. EUlred & Co.), Consul
„ for Chili.
William Ed ye Mort, Esq., (Mort’sDoek and
Engineering Co)
Solicitors:
Messrs. Allen & Allen, Elizabeth-street.
Bankers:
Oriental Bank Corporation.
Secretary, Pro Tern. ;
Joseph Page, 287 George-street.
Broker:
E. C. Davies, 287 George-street.
The whole of the Subscribed Capital (£10,000)
will be placed so the credit of the Company for the
purchase of Plant, its erection, and securing a
suitable site, less One Thousand Pounds to be paid
to the Patentee, to cover all preliminary and other
expenses of floating and forming the Company.
OBJECTS
I—This Company is being formed for the purpose
of acquiring, by purchase, the entire patent
rights in the Colony of New South Wales taken
out by E. R. Parnell for the effectual treatment
of Auriferous Pyrites and other ores.
II. —To purchase and erect working plant, specially
devised for the above purpose, and to be con-
structed under the Immediate supervision of
the Patentee; plans and specifications of which
can be inspected at the Offices of the Broker.
III. To secure a convenient site on which to erect
the Works, and to extend operations should
sufficient inducement be offered.
IY.—To purchase for treatment such parcels of
payable pvrites as may be offered to the Com-
pany; or to treat the same on account of con-
signors, on Royalty.
The method of extracting the precious and base
metals from pyrites under this process is so simple
and economic, that it is believed the Gold Mining
Industry of the Colony will become thoroughly
revived, and established on a permanent basis.
A perusal of the subjoined statement of trials
will be sufficient to show what can be done under
this system, and it may be observed that in no in-
stance has more than 5 dwts. of gold per ton been
lost, as compared with the results obtained by fire
assay.
The quantities of ore treated range from a few
lbs. up to II cwt.; and though, in many instances,
the most refractory ores were submitted, the
results in all cases showed the gold to have been
thoroughly extracted.
Appended are certificates from two of the most
eminent Assayers in the Colonies, which will con-
vince everyone of the value of this process.
The 10,000 shares held in reserve will, when
issued, be first offered to the existing members of
the Company, pro rata, at such price as may be
agreed on, before being placed on the open mar-
ket; or they may be distributed in like manner
whhout consideration.
The Patentee grants to this Company the exclu-
sive license to use the Patent within the present
bounds of the Colony of New South Wales; the
only reservation being that, should the Company
cease to use the process for twelve months afte
the sterling of the works, from any cause other
than the breaking do wn of machin ery or the fail
ure of the supply of Pyrites, then all rights and
titles granted shall lapse to the Patentee.
Dividends will be made payable on all shares
alike, except that the 20,000 contributing shares
first placed on the market will carry a preferential
dividend from profits of 10 per cent, per annum
during the first three years.
The Company proposes to purchase Tailings
Pyrites, and other ores; but shall be debarred from
joining in any mining speculations.
The Provisional Directors may declare the Com-
pany formed as soon as three-fourths of the shares.*
have been applied for; and shall then, or when tife
share list is closed, call a General Meeting of the
Shareholders to consider and adopt the Articles of
Association, to elect Directors, Solicitors, Manager
Auditors, &c., &e., and to consider any other points
connected with the subject which may be oronerlv
brought before the meeting, y
There can be no doubt that large profits will be
realised from working such a Patent as this. The
production of rich Auriferous Pyrites, in large
quantities, will follow immediately on the fact of
the economic and successful treatment of such
metals becoming generally known, and the supply
of valuable material need only be limited in quan-
tity by the machine capacity for its treatment.
The process is so simple that any man of ordinary
intelligence can master the subject in a few davs
and work it efficiently. y ’
Treating ores of the above average value, the
profits accruing from Royalty to this Company
working one machine only, will, it is confidently
expected, reach 50 per cent, on the capital.
All particulars can be obtained on application to
the Broker.
CERTIFICATE OF TEST MADE BY MR. W A
DIXON, F.I.C., F.C.S. ' A
I have tested the process of extraction of gold '
from Pyrites, as patented by B. B. ParnellT on
several samples of Pyrites. The operation was
earned out with a roughly Improvised apparatus,
and I have no doubt apparatus such as that
described in the patent would have produced
better results. As it was. 1 am able to state that
the mercury remained britrht and showed no sign
of sickening. This is due no doubt to the extrac-
tion of the base metals before amalgamation. I
believe that B. B. Parnell’s process will actually
separate gol.i from uyrites. Subjoined is note of
results : —
Mixed Pyrites.
i u 4’ ,2° z ' i- ! wts * A ***■ ot * old P er ton.
1. R.H. 18oz. lulwts. 15 grs.
2. R.H. 24oz. 17dwts. Igrs.
(Signed I WILL. A. Dl XON F.I.C„”p.C.S;
PUBLIC LIBRARY, MUSEUMS, and NATIONAL-
GALLERY OF VICTORIA.
,, . . „ Melbourne, 26th June, 1883.
1 have treated a quantity of Pyritous ore, of a*
a very refractory character, by the process
suggested and patented by E. B. Parnell, with
excellent results; treated by the ordinary process
the gold remained dull and would not amalgamate’
without great loss of both gold and mercury. B
B. Parnell’s process is simple and easily worked.
(Signed) J. COSMO NEWBERRY.
F DRNITURB SHOW BOOM
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
Hall furniture, hatstands,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
Library furniture, centre and side
tables, bookcases, secretaires,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
irspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c..
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Furniture— the largest stock in
THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, O’Connell-street.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
some STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
BEDROOM SUITES complete In various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-fee,
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for eingr
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Eight-pound bedroom suites.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY,
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 20s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, fram 35s; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from 10s 6d; Tables, from 7s 6d; Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 26s; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s-
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
sirs
EASY CHAIR, 78s.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, HandsomeFashicm-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry. Embroidery, Plush, &c.
C~ HIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
Easy occasional chairs, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
Drawing-room occasional chairs-
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d.
CHAIR BE D STEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, complete, 40 Guineas.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, comprising 5-FEET
EARLY ENGLISH SIDEBOARD, MAHOGANY
EXTENDING DINING TABLE, with patent
screw and two l aves; LARGE PIER GLASS,
COUCH, GENT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAIRS, covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
D
"ARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Ormolu.
VERY ELEGANT Items for Drawing-room.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered In
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
P~ RAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
B
BDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell-street.
WASHSTANDS, with marble, 25s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS, 20s; Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment; best make, km est prices.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, Iron Safes (all sizes)
Bradley. Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
TCB CHESTS, all sizes, very superior make. Bx-
JL amine before purchasing. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
COMMODE CHAIRS, SHAVING STANDS.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
JAPANESE BLINDS, for Verandahs, 6x8,
7s. 6d.; 8 x 8, lls; 10 x 8, 14s.; 12 x 8, 16s. 6d.
BRADLEY. NEAYTON, and LAMB.
STEINWAY NEW YORK PIANOS, the FINEST
in the world. A SHIPMENT just landed.
CELEBRATED PIANOS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB
have received
another LARGE SHIPMENT?
of
R. LIPP and SONS’ celebrated PIANOFORTES
direct from the Makers, comprising TALL
GRANDS, LITTLE UPRIGHT GRANDS, SA-
LOON GRANDS, VERY HANDSOME and of the
HIGHEST CLASS FINISH,
in
WALNUT and BLACK GOLD.
C W“ WE HAVE NOW THE LARGEST STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA OP
UPP’S PIANOS
TO SELECT FROM.
WE INVITE INSPECTION.
FOB PRIVATE SALE AT EXTREMELY LOW
PRICES.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Pianoforte Importers,
O’Connell and Spring streets.
SOCIAL.
There was a good attendance at the Musi-
entertainment for SS. Simon and
, “"f 8 * Chu 5 ch ’ >9. the Protestant Hall, on the 7th
J£ 8 ,t* n Aj„ an lr .'while the Revs, Ellis and Kemmis
* tone ’ other talented people suu-
piiea tune. Some amateurs executed several
glees.and the St. Mark’s Handbell Ringers tinkled
out the Yenetia Waltz and “ Home to our Moun-
tain, 8 very prettily. Dr. Ellis contributed “If
your hearts,” “ Watchman, what of the
PiF *¥ c v. a Pjt Miss Dernelley’s songs gave some
effusive individuals a chance to show how foolish
they can be when their friends don’t look aft.-r
mem. After the audience had awarded the singer
a fair amount of praise for her “ Land of Light
and Lovu, a little eliqueof claqueurs kept thump-
ing on. When there is any great merit, an audience
will usually discover it; but Miss Dernelley, it
seemed to us, had to give an encore simply in re-
sponse to the persistent prodding of one particu-
lar ‘y ° ols y walking-stick with a fool at the end of
..’mu r L Kemtn, s gave six readings, including
The Man at the Gate,” “ Billy’s Rose.” by
JJdgonet, and Mark Twain’s story of a Frencn
auei. inis last wonderful account caused a guile-
less maiden to ask if it was quite true, to which
Mamma replied that she didn’t know, but she
man t think Mr. Kemmis would read it if it
wasn t. Mr. H. J. Noble was accompanist, and
Mr. M. H. Stephen, chairman.
• • •
A few girls in Sydney can paddle a little,
provided some male person is about to see they
don t upset the boat or hit one another with the
sculls, and to pick them up when they catch crabs.
A few girls can row well, but, if we stand polite-
ness aside j ust for once, to let the truth edge in,
they are very few indeed. Yet, if there is any
place where lady rowers ought to be seen, it is
Fort Jackson. We haven’t any wish to see
mannish girls, and if we knew one muscular
enough to handle a sixteen-feet sweep, we would
probably dislike her; but, at present, rowing is
exceedingly popular in London among ladies, and
the eight-oar crews of English belles on the Upper
Thames have been the theme of some of Du Man-
ner’s most delicious sketches. At many of the
watering places, too, in England, America, and
Europe, they are seen, during the short season ;
and we don’t see why the girls of Sydney, where
the season lasts all the year round, should be
behind their sisters. There did seem some
probability of rowing being made fashionable
a tew years ago, when Sir Hercules Robin
eon’s daughters used to flash their dainty
paddles across to Mossman’s and back before
breakfast. The gubernatorial energy gave a fillip
in those days to a good many sensible fashions
which are not very actively encouraged now.
But sense ought not to wait for patronage in a
thing of this sort. Rowing ought to be almost as
natural and universal as walking. It is not neg-
lected either as a sport or recreation by men; but
why should they monopolise it ? It a girl wants
to be healthy, there is nothing better. It’s true
that rowing won’t combine very well with wasp
waists, and interestingly pallid faces, and spindle
limbs whose puniness is mistaken for delicate
symmetry. But if a girl doesn’t mind having arms
that are firm as well as round and shapely, a back
that will carry her upright without the aid of the
peculiar steel and whalebone equipment which,
we understand, is now used for the purpose if
she doesn’t think it ungenteel to be seen with
cheeks that have their own colour on, and cares
to have her lungs full of air that is loaded
with life and health —she might try the inspiriting
exertion of rowing a boat. The slender fingers
would not spread much with nice light sculls, and
the arms could be kept as white a ever under a
neat flannel boating costume, and—this is quite a
confidential whisper—if Josephine has a pretty
figure, it won’t look much better anywhere than
it does ivhen she reaches out for a good long dip,
and straightens back again with a good strong pud.
Some darlings believe that when they have been
through a full ballroom programme they have
done a lot of exercise. Dancing is very nice, but
a girl will have to slide through or scramble
through (according to her capacity) a great many
Blue Danubes and Dream Faces before she will
find herself much better for them. Perspiring in
a tight-laced satin, then cooling off with bare
shoulders in a cold verandah, is very different
from the healthy, glowing warmth that is lapped
up by the briny breeze ; and the gas is in-
ferior to the sun, anyhow. There are advan-
tages in the ga., to some girls; but let
that pass. As regards the exercise, no doubt
dancing does develop the muscles sometimes; but
it is the aching arm of the confiding youth who has
been entrapped into a heartbreaking endeavourto
float round some 1801b. of vis inertias that is
developed. We are not of opinion that tne lady
developes her muscles much, as a rule. A very
simple apparatus can be fixed in any house by
running ropes with weights at the end through
pulleys in a plank. The plank can be put up any-
where, and the exerciser can pull away at the
rope handles sitting down, standing up, hands
behind, over head, or in any position. This primi-
tive rowing machine is useful, but Port Jackson
is better. Even ladles who walk must feel that it
is but partial exercise; rowing just supplies what
is wanted, and there is not the slightest need to
fear any sacrifice of feminine grace through taking
a little boating exertion.
♦ * ♦
If the audience at last Thursday’s elocution
contest was a fair gauge to go by, its numbers did
not indicate much interest in oratory at Wool-
labra. To suppose the recitations of the amateurs
were not worth listening to, would not be just:
some were excellent. Tne chief man of the local
Literary Institute presided; and, by the laborious
jokes with which he “ set ” the audience, rendered
himself an object of much curiosity. Each com-
petitor gave two pieces. Mr. G. J. Pitt (Chippen-
dale) was not particularly good or bad. Mr. J.
Clulow (Paddington) had a good voice and bad
action. Mr.C. Ireland was good. Mr.C.G. Sledge
(Alexandria) selected the Combat between Fitz-
james and Roderick Dhu, and the scene where
Ivan the Terrible kills his sou, and he chanted
these two murderous pieces in a murmuring
monotone that was touching and very soothing.
Mr. Beveridge (St. Stephen’s) spoke “ Spectacles in
Church,” in broad Scotch; it was clever mimicry,
rather than legitimate elocution. Mr. R. Ander-
son (St. Stephen’s) recited “Green grow the
rashes, oh!” with a delicate humour that was
tickling, and the ladies pinned their faith on him.
Then he gave “ The Death of Jo.” But the judges
dion t place him. Mr. R. Pitt (Woollahra) was
unanimously placed first, his recitations being the
Dream of Eugene Aram ” and Dagonet’s “ Road
to Heaven.” Mr. H. O. Holcombe (Redfern) was
second, and Mr. T. R. Steel (Woollahra) third.
Votes of thanks were given to everybody, in-
cluding the chairman, a gentleman to whom we
willingly accord the felicitous distinction of being
able to clothe a very few ideas in a greater amount
of verbosity-than any one we ever saw.
The members of the Modern High School
Athletic Club will celebrate the Christmas break-
ing-up by a concert and ball at Tattersall’s Hall,
on Friday, 21st December, and the music is being
rehearsed. Ball dress will be plain or fancy, and
Mr. F. L.Weiss will manage, 'i he affair is not sought
to be made profitable, but simply a social festivity
for friends of the Club.
• • •
Next Wednesday the Juvenile Exhibition
will be opened at Parramatta at 2.30 p.m., by the
Governor, with musical honours. Affairs are nearly
complete, and there is sure to be a great attend-
ance. At night, the building will be the O.K.
rendezvous for several weeks, as it will be lit with
electricity. Special trains will be rnn at “ increased
speed.” We shall go, if only to enjoy that ex-
traordinary novelty.
• • •
Exeiteme.it was recently caused in a
southern suburb of a Southern city bv the disap-
pearance of a lady who is wealthy and eccentric,
and has grown daughters. It is supposed she
eloped with a medical man who had an eye to her
wealth ; but the only fact known for certain is
that the lady is still missing A lady, who had
all but concluded the engagement of an eligible
servant girl, is new much annoyed to discover
that she will not be able to come before Christmas,
as the young woman’s music-quarter doesn’t
expire till the middle of January The youths
of Junee Junction, who have proved their un-
swerving loyalty to the throne by naming their
local hops the Loftus Assembly, closed up with a
supper and ball the other day. About three-score
guests athered in Crawley’s Assembly Hall, the
ladies gay and giddy as usual, and danced till day.
— Wagga Early Closing Association held its
annual dinner on the 5th December At the
first meeting of the new Adelaide City Council on
Monday, the Mayor’s screw was fixed at £1000.
Owing to his Worship being a teetotaller, the
memories of Colonel Light and Sir George King-
ston were drunk in unferraented colonial wine in
solemn (and significant) silence Last Thursday
Mr. Sydney Burdekin and a number of his friends
held a pleasant outing on the harbour. Lunch at
Fern Bay, where the champagne and oratory were
uncorked. Mr. John Sutherland chairman. They
boarded the Caraccioio, in an amicable way,
and returned home early in the evening
Mr. G. Agnew, late manager at Hudson Bros., was
dinnered by a number of employes on the 5th, at
Callaghan’s. Mr. Wallace presided, and proposed
“Our Guest,” who responded, and retrospected
some of his history while with the firm. Mr.
\gnew, who goes with his wife to Brisbane, has
accepted control of the Queensland Tramcar Com-
pany On a Literary and Debating Society
being formed at Cootamuedra, a country cor-
respondent observes such an institution will
result in “unspeakable” good. No such
luck—Shakespeare scholarship at Melbourne
University gone to Mr. W. M. Mullen this year
Glebe Regatta produced good races on Saturday;
water smooth as a pond. Mercantile Band on
board the Gem, also ladies, but the rain thinned
their numbers Bathurst Musical Society gave
its third concert last week, under Mr Phillips
Western Suburbs Musical Society held its concert
on the 5th, in Burwood School of Arts, success-
fully. It will soon produce “ Belshazzar’s Feast.”
— Nelson warriors going through their arduous
duties at Adelaide, with unflinching heroism.
Balls, picnics, garden parties Victoria House
O.C held a concert on Thursday last. .’ Miss Bella
Guerin, who took her B.A. in Melbourne, is
daughter of the Governor of Ballarat Gaol, and
she goes to boss a ladies’ college in b.Z. at £300 a
year—The man who brutally assaulted the secre-
tary of the Turn Verein mask ball in Melbourne,
by breaking a 8' la-water bottle in his face, was
only nominally fined, on condition he paid the
secretary £50 compensation and all expenses..
The Garden Palace grounds thrown open
On the marriage of Mr. J. T. Inglis, recently, the
employes of the firm (W. Inglis and Son) gave him
a valuable present, and last Friday, at his office,
the “ buyers ” made a presentation of costly silver-
ware—massive salver, table dishes. &c.. to Mrs.
Inglis A moonlight soiree will be held at the
Avenue to-night — Windsor Philharmonic Society
gives its first concert on Friday, lith The Lon-
doners’ Club was constituted at the Protestant
Hall on Monday, and forty gentlemen from the
city of smoke and sin were admitted.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Mrs. F. A. Smith’s Soiree (Fort-st. School) Dec. 14.
Cyclists’ Union Races Dec. 15.
Manly Regatta Dec. 15.
Intercolonial Cricket Match Dec. 17.
Liedertafel Ladies’ Night (Prot. Hall) ... Dec. 19.
Juvenile Exhibition opens, Parramatta.. Dec. 19.
Metropolitan Smoke Night (Masonic Hall). Dec. 31.
Messrs. Needs’ Annual Ball Dec. 21.
Modern High School Athletic Club Con-
cert and Ball (Tattersall's). Dec. 21.
Mdme. Kellermann’s Matinee (Prot. Hall) Dec. 22.
Swiss Commissioner’s Speech.
Extract from a speech delivered at the Amphi-
theatre of the Primary College of La Chaux-de-
Fonds, Tuesday, the 14th day of November, 1876,
by M. Edouard Favre-Perrel, Swiss Commissioner
and juror to the Philadelphia Exhioition:—
On the Waltham “Riverside” Watch.
. . . “The Waltham Company make th
entire watch—from the tirst screw to the case an
dial. It would even be difficult for them to us°
our products, so great is the regularity, so minute
the precision, with which their machines work-
They arrive at the regulation of the watch—so to
say—without having seen it. When the watch is
given to the adjuster, the foreman delivers to him
the corresponding hair-spring and the watch is
regulated. (Sensation among the audience.) Here
is what I have seen, gentlemea! I asked from the
director of the Waltham Company, a watch of the
fifth grade. A large safe was opened before me;
at random I took a watch out of it and fastened it
to my chain. The director, having asked me to
let him have the watch for two or three days, so
as to observe the motion I answered, ‘ On the con-
trary, i persist in wearing it just as it is. to obtain
an exact idea of your manufacture.’ At Paris, I set
my watch by a regulator on the Boulevard, and on
the sixth day I observed that it had varied 32
seconds. And this watch is of the fifth American
grade; it cost 75 francs (movement without case).
At my arrival at Lode, 1 showed the watch to one
of our first adjusters, who asked permission to
‘take it down’—in other words, to take it to
jieces. I, however, wished first to observe it; and
lere is the result, which I noted: Hanging, daily
variation, U6seconds; variation in different posi-
tions, from 4 to 8 seconds; in the ‘ heated room,’
the variation was but very slight. Having thus ob-
served it, l handed the watch to the adjuster, who
took it down. After the lapse of a few days, be
came to me and said, word for word: ‘I am com-
pletely overwhelmed: the result is incredible; one
would not find one such watch among 50,000 of our
manufacture.’
“ This watch, gentlemen, I repeat to you, I took
at hazard —out of a heap, as we say. You under-
stand, from this example, that the Waltham watch
may be preferred to the Swiss. I have finished,
fentlemen, and I have told you of things such as
have seen them. It remains for us to profit
from this sad experience, and to improve our
manufacture. Competent men are not wanting
among us; they must go to work at once.”
[A round of applause followed the speaker as he
descended the tribune.]*
Why be sick and ailing when Hop Bitters
will surely cure you ? Read and know.


Messrs. S. Hoflnung & Co.’s Colossal
Warehouse, Pitt-st, Sydney.
We have no better proof of the rapid and sub-
stantial development of the trade of this country,
and no truer indication of its future importance,
than is furnished in the marvellous change which
marks the transition from old to new Sydney. The
dingiest buildings—which doubtl 388 in their day
answered every requirement—are being displaced
by handsome and commodious warehouses that
will compare with the finest structures in New
York, London, or Paris. The centre of business in
the city, confined but a few years ago to the
neighbourhood of the Exchange, has expanded to
more than twenty times its dimensions in the last
ten years, with the result that land previously
occupied for residential purposes in many of the
principal thoroughfares has been absorbed for
business sites, the values exhibiting an enormous
increase. The area of this expansion has been
marked by the erection of edifices of magnificent
proportions, and unsurpassed architectural
beauty. It Is certainly a fact, surprising as it may
appear, that perhaps no city in the world, with the
same population, has had at one time such an
enormous extent of building work in hand
as Sydney has had during the last fifteen
years. And it is typical of the solid pro-
sperity of this great free-trade country that
these improvements are of the most sub-
stantial and liberal character. The last notice-
able undertaking in this direction is the construc-
tion of Messrs. Hoffnung and Co.’s Colossal Ware-
houses, an engraving of which appears in this
issue. They are situated in Pitt-street, and con-
nect with the General Post Office, which, notwith-
standing its size and character, suffers consider-
ably by comparison with the warehouses in the
matter of lofty grandeur and capacity. In a short
period, when the Post Office is completed, and the
square, recently purchased by the Government,
properly laid out, the Post Office block will cer-
tainly be the most valuable in all Australia; and it
speaks of the plucky enterprise and sound business
acumen of the firm of Hoffnung and Co. that they
should have secured a frontage for their mam-
moth undertaking, far and away more important
than any other in the city. A brief sketch here
of the history of this enterprising firm will not be
without interest. The business was founded in
1853 by Mr. S. Hoffnung, very small premises being
taken for the purpose in Wynyard-lane, the space
being two floors 12 by 14 feet. Then the business
was removed to a building fronting George-street,
being one of two shops which stood between the
New South Wales and Commercial Banks. Next,
premises wore taken in Wynyard-st., being portions
of a building since absorbed by the Bank of New
South Wales. These premises had a frontage of
80 feet and a depth of 60 feet, with three floors,
and, as was the case with the others, soon became
inadequate to the requirements of the steadily
increasing business of the firm. After months of
careful observation, the firm determined on the
erection in Pitt-street of that splendid block of
buildings opposite Vickery’s, which from their
oommodiousness and superb architectural facade
were hailed at the time with general satisfaction
as another Indication of our mercantile prosperity.
These stores had a frontage of 60 feet with a depth
of 95 feet, rose five storeys high, and had at the
rear a series of stores, 60 x 25, of similar height.
This valuable addition to the street architecture
of Sydney took place in 1871; and the impetus
given to the firm’s business by increased accom-
modation was very great, and a most satisfactory
return for the enterprise displayed. The business,
in fact, grew so rapidly that, in order to decen-
tralize it, the firm decided on erecting a commodi-
ous warehouse at Brisbane, to meet the demands
of the Queensland trade. Accordingly, a fine
edifice was upreared in Charlotte-street, on an
area of 70ft. by 80 ft., the first five-storey building
in the rising Northern capital. This branch was
placed under the management of Mr. B. F. Marks,
who had served a thorough apprenticeship in the
Sydney house; and the establishment has proved
remarkably successful, employing over fifty hands
and five tHaveners. All these removals of the
firm to larger premises, and the ereetlon of
superior edifices on their own account, point to
the necessity for
THE MAMMOTH WAREHOUSES
which Messrs. Hoffnung & Co. have finally erected
for their great business. It will be remembered
what a stir was created in the city at the news of
the firm’s purchase of this magnificent site ; it
seemed as if the whole thing were done while the
city slumbered, and there was a consensus of
opinion that Messrs. Hoffnung and Co. had taken
the pluckiest and most enterprising step of any
firm in Sydney. Though we cannot be expected
to divulge particulars, it may be stated that by this
purchase the firm made a financial stroke of clear
profit representing between £40,000 and £50,000.
The ground purchase, something like £600 a foot,
and the warehouse, represent an investment of
near upon £200,000—a business transaction which
gives rise to one or two reflections. No better
proof of their confidence in the future trade of
this city could have been manifested by any firm,
and Messrs. Hoffnung and Co. are credited with a
good deal of judgment in these matters, as evi-
denced by the past—and, moreover, as in almost
every part of the city, grand edifices are every
day rising, some encouragement is assuredly held
out to the Government to infuse a little more
spirit into their undertakings to provide for the
future of this great metropolis. There is probably
no other country in the world with the same popu-
lation that has called into existence by its trade
such splendid houses of business as has marked
the progress of this city during the last ten o.
fifteen years; so tiiat it is almost impossible to cal-
culate on the developments of the future. Messrs.
Hoffnung and Co. saw this when they resolved on
the erection of the mammoth warehouses of which
we are now speaking. The premises have a front-
age to Pitt-street of 151ft., with a depth of 185ft,
on the northern end and 165ft. on the southern,
giving an area of Just upon % of an acre. An
excavation, 12ft. deep, was made throughout the
area, bringing the basement on a level with an
expansive courtyard; and from the solid rock has
rUen
THE MAMMOTH MERCANTILE EDIFICE OF
AUSTRALIA,
comprising four great warehouses. The edifice is
of brick, the walls being of enormous thickness,
giving stupendous strength throughout; while the
front, which shows a bewilderingly lofty fayade,
in the Italian style, is of brick set in cement, the
stoutest and most creditable undertaking executed
anywhere in Australia. The urgent demands for
increased space would not allow of the use of
stone for the front, as was at first projected, fully
twelve months’ time being saved by the adoption
of the plan pursued. And it is to the infinite
credit of the city that, while all the other great
building works of the city proceeded with every
speed, the erection of this colossal structure was
carried along without a single hitch, the whole
work being completed in the short space of eighteen
months. The building has absorbed
OVER THREE MILLION BRICKS,
and almost a forest of timber; and no better evi-
dence have we of the vitality and capability of
the building trades of this city, and of the extent
and value of our natural resources, than is
afforded by the fact that the great mass of the
material used is colonial, and the work through-
out, with the exception of glass, &c., entirely of
local production. The edifice, as already stated,
consists of six storeys, connected by arches,
which, while always available for business, are fur-
nished on both sides of the wall with fire-proof
sliding iron doors—an arrangement which virtu-
ally ives one great warehouse for business, but
divides it into four for safety. The building com-
prises seven floors, giving a
TOTAL FLOOR SPACE OF ABOUT FIVE
ACRES.
An undertaking of this kind has, of course, not
been taken in hand without the fullest provision
against accident by fire. The immense height of
the structure was the main difficulty; and it is not
much to the credit of our three-million water
scheme for it to be said that, even with that in
operation in our streets, the pressure will be in-
sufficient to command our loftiest buildings in
case of fire. So Messrs. Hoffnung and Co. have
adopted a plan which, doubtless, will have to be
generally followed in similar great undertakings,
of providing power for this special purpose. The
water from the street main is brought into the
building as high as the pressure will send it; and
after that, it is operated upon by the hydraulic
machinery, allowing the loftiest and most dis-
tant parts of the great structure to be commanded
at any moment by a perfect flood of water.
The architect for the warehouses was Mr. Thomas
Rowe, who has succeeded in placing in the streets
of Sydney a pile of buildings worthy any city in
the world, and certainly not eclipsed, for use by
one firm, by any similar edifice in New York or
London. The contractors for the foundation and
superstructure were Messrs. Macleod and Noble,
who have in this work surpassed all their previous
undertakings in the building line. The contractor
for the carpentery and joinery was Mr. W. Cole-
man, a rising young contractor, who has executed
his work in the most satisfactory manner. The
building absorbed over three million bricks, two
thousand casks of cement, and millions of feet
of timber. The supports and girders throughout
are of the staunchest ironbark well-seasoned
timber, and that there has not been a perceptive
deviation from the true line in either the walls or
the wood-work is good evidence of the thoroughly
workmanlike style in which the building was
erected. The edifice has, of course, been
VISITED BY THOUSANDS OF CITIZENS AND
STRANGERS,
the latter regarding it as unsurpassed for extent
and grandeur by any warehouse in the world. In
the centre of the building is a large iron gateway,
enclosed with beautiful wrought-iron gates, artis-
tically designed and manufactured to special
order, by the famous firm of Barnard, Bishop, and
Barnard, Norwich, England. To the right and
left, at the basement apertures, is to be noticed
another Improvement, the old iron gratings being
displaced by Hayward’s system of prismatic lights,
which at once illuminates the basement and pro-
tects it from wet and dust, and danger by fire.
The gateway leads to an expansive
COURTYARD NEARLY 3000 FEET SQUARE,
where all goods are received or despatched.
Capacious stores rise to the height of the main
building from the court-yard; and here, in opera-
tion, are three hydraulic hoists, and one hydraulic
cage, with lifting power of from 15 to 35 cwt. each;
the extent of the mechanical arrangement being
further evidencedjin the fact that in another part
of the building a splendid passenger lift is moved
and directed with the greatest ease and precision.
The whole of the hydraulic machinery, with regard
to which the firm availed themselves of the ad-
vice of Mr. Norman Selfe, was manufactured by
the great English firm of Waygood and Co., who
regard their undertaking at Messrs. Hoffnung and
Co.’s as their greatest triumph in practical
hydraulic science. In the space of a few seconds,
visitors are taken to the topmost floor of the
warehouse, with the greatest ease and absolute
safety. In fact, it may here be stated that the
principle of the passenger-lift renders an accident
a scientific impossibility, as, should anything in
the gear be effected, the car can only descend as if
in ordinary operation. This was one of the cost-
liest undertakings.
A WELL, NINETY FEET DEEP,
was sunk for the purpose of receiving the solid
steel piston, which, under hydraulic force, pushes
the car upward with its living freight. This
excavation took six men, eight-hour shifts, three
months to execute, additional difficulty being
experienced with the water. The whole of the
hydraulic machinery and lifting arrangements
have been minutely Inspected by engineers and
warehousemen: and now that we have practical
models to go by, there will doubtless be a much-
needed improvement in this respect all over the
city. The
MAIN ENTRANCE TO THE WAREHOUSE IS
AT THE SOUTHERN END,
and the idea which is conveyed by the opening
view is both impressive and charming. Passing
through the wide doorway, one enters a magnifi-
cent porch, 30 by 13, which is truly a miniature
gallery of art—the richest and best-designed thing
of the kind, probably, to be seen anywhere In the I
( world, This porch comprises four offices, with j
separate entrances, and at the western end
is the main entrance to the building’, over
eight feet wide, on passing through which a
splendid view of the great counting house and
the clerical and the jewellery departments is
obtainable. The porch, as already stated, is
fitly described as a gallery of art. The
fittings are of the best colonial cedar, beautifully
carved, ornamented, and polished, subdivided into
several panels, each panel being fitted in with
embossed glass representing in life-size figures the
following subjects. The doors entering the ware-
house represent on one side a figure of Labour,
and on the other Justice. On the other panels of
the porch are life-size figures in richly embossed
glass, representing Agriculture, Pasture, Com-
merce, Navigation, Literature, Art, Music, and
Flora ; and, in two large central panels. Hope and
Charity. In the porch are four doors—one leading
to the office of the managing partner, Mr. D.
Marks, on which is the figure of Perseverance;
one leading to the chief clerk’s, the figure of
Industry; to the jewellery department,7flgure
representing Enterprise; and to the waiting-room,
figure representing Progress. The light falls at
the rear of all these splendidly-executed panels,
and the illustrated effect is enchanting. The
COUNTING HOUSES
are the most extensive in Australia, and the plan
and effect are certainly without a model in these
parts. This department—every portion of which
can be eommanded by a view from the managing
partner’s office—has a range of desks of over 200
feet long, and on one side is raised three feet above
the level of the floor. The front consists of a
depth of about six feet of highly-polished and
carved cedar, divided into about seventy panels,
every one of which is richly illuminated in em-
bossed glass, with figures representing the various
games or pastimes of youth or childhood. This
embossed work was executed from the firm’s own
design by Messrs. Pilkington and Co., the famous
glass manufacturers of St. Helen’s. Adjoining the
managing partner’s office, and within reach of the
counting-house, is
A COMPLETE TELEPHONE EXCHANGE,
Which not only connects with the firm’s private
residence and the Exchange, but which brings
every department in communication with each
other, and, moreover, connects them all with
the whole telegraphic exchange of the city.
To the left, on entering the warehouse proper
are a series of offices, all beautifully furnished
throughout, for the confidential clerks, cashier,
delivery staff, the warehouse manager; and there
is likewise a hat and cloak room for the exclusive
use of the staff. The jewellery department, the
entrance to which is by the porch, is subdivided
into four sections for the purpose of privacy
and expedition, and is beautifully fitted up. This
is one of the chief departments of the firm’s busi-
ness, and receives corresponding attention. It
obtains the full benefit of the magnificent flood
of light which is brought down the building by an
arrangeme.it which may be denominated
THE LARGEST LANTERN LIGHT IN
AUSTRALIA.
This admirable plan for lighting the warehouse
consists of an enormous well, 40ft. long by 20ft
wide, running six stories high, in itself a warehouse,
surmounted by a magnificent lantern of the most
approved pattern, iu embossed glass, richly illu-
minated. By these means the loftiest building in
the city—wh'ch, on account of the narrowness of
the streets, would otherwise have been as dim as a
dungeon—is the best lighted house in the colonies,
every nook and corner being searched by the rays
of sunlight secured as described. The light, in
fact, reaches to the inmost recesses of the vaults
at the rear of the jewellery department. And a
word on this subject. These jewellery vaults eclipse
everything of the kind in Australia. They are
of course of great strength, fire and burglar proof
the doors being Milner’s best, and within them are
huge safes, wherein are stored many thousands of
pounds worth of jewellery, diamond goods, &c.,
other portions of the premises being used for the
fancy or ordinary jewellery. There are also vau Its
fire and burglar proof, which the firm use for their
books, &c. Leaving the jewellery depot and clerical
offices, the visit©;- comes to the
FIRST DEPARTMENT ON THE GROUND-
FLOUR,
wherein is exhibited, on pyramid stands, a highly
attractive display of china, glass and earthen-
ware, lampware, &o.; the crystal glass articles
being shown on a rich mirror-glass pyramid. To
the left of this department is the passenger-lift
previously referred to. A wide and richly-polished
cedar stairway leads to the first floor, which is
like the other divisions shelved throughout
It is devoted t© the exposition of clocks, bronzes’
fancy jewellery, and all the articles embraced in a
fancy department, the sample stock being pre-
sented to view in handsome show-eases. Away in
the vast expanse are likewise departments for
tobacconists’ supplies, cigars and cigarettes, and
there are also repositories for perfumery, brush
and comb wares, patent medicines, and druggists’
goods. On this floor are several magnificent show-
cases, manufactured expressly to order, by Sage,
of London, and by Williams, the well-known
manufacturer, of this city. The second floor is
devoted to a brilliant array of pure silver and
electro-plated goods, the finest and most extensive
collection to be found in the colonies; and there
are, besides, departments for Sheffield goods, iron-
mongery, cutlery; and then, away beyond the
arch, is an extensive saddlery department, with
furniture, English and American hardware (in-
cluding mining tools), &c.—the business in each
of which departments is enormous. The collection
of mechanics’ tools and appliances, which it shown
on green baze counters, is the finest and most
varied yet imported to the colony, and is
itself well worth inspection. Through the arch-
way on this floor is an enormous department for
every description of domestic brushware. The
third floor is devoted to stationery, writing papers,
printed books, novels, standard works, &e, en-
closing all the requirements for the complete fur-
nishing of sta ionery establishments, school
materi.il, paper bags, office and counting house
stationery, &o. &c. At the eastern end of the
floor is the department for pianofortes, harmo-
niums, wind and stringed instruments of every
kind. The fourth floor is devoted to articles in
every known game or pastime, such as billiards.
cricket, tennis, football, juvenile games, parlour
games and pastimes, &c., and here, on this floor,
is likewise to be seen, a mammoth pyramid, exhi-
biting every description of oil-painting, chromo,
&c., steel plates, and views of all kinds. A large
space is devoted, beyond the arch, to English con-
tinental, and colonial basket ware. On the fifth
floor is the bulk stock—an enormous area being
stocked with huge supplies of the goods shown in
sample throughout the warehouse. This bulk
store feeds each department as required, patent
hoists being in use for the purpose, t’rom each
floor at the rear projects a small balcony, where
are to be found lavatories and other conveniences
for the staff employed in each main department.
Telephonic exchange and speaking tubes connect
each department, and these, with a series of night
watch signals, checks, and alarums, form together
a system of labour and time-saving, and fire pre-
venting, that probably has not been designed or
thought out for any other warehouse in the
dominion. Mr. S. Hoffnung, who is now on
a visit to this city, is one of the resident London
partners, and he has complimented his partner, Mr,
D. Marks- under whose personal supervision the
great work, from inception to finish, has been
carried out—on the elaborateness and completeness
of the whole undertaking. It is impossible to con-
vey, in a description of this kind, an adequate
idea of the extent and character of these colossal
premises of the enterprising firm; nor are we able
to sketch in full the dimensions and character of
the business. Their enterprise gives em-
ployment to just upon two hundred hands, in-
cluding travellers, and their investment repre-
sents over £700,000 of floating capital in the city.
Messrs. Hoffnung and Co. have exhibited rare
pluck and energy in their great undertaking, and
they point the way to hundreds of others how to
prepare for the great mercantile future of this free
and prosperous country.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondente who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
municatoins notice d.]
“ C.A.H.”: We don’t buy articles which
have been rejected by Mortimer FrankJyn. No f
sir—“Plural”: Don’t allow it to trouble you.
Mongeese is just as correct as mongooses, and vice
versa. There is authority for either mode of spell-
ing. As Dry den somewhere says:—
The plural of “goose” is not “gooses” but
geese,”
Yet “noose” in the plural makes “nooses”;
With regard to “mongoose.” Well, just go as you
please.
’Tis “ mongooses ” —or “ geese,” as one chooses.
’‘E.S.W.”; (1.) We don’t say anything of the sort.
(3.) Do you really think that Mr. G. Ernest Morri-
son has “cleared the way for the white man in
that dark isle ?” Don’t you, now, rather incline to
the opinion that G. Ernest Morrison, by peppering
niggers with small-shot, has brought about
a state of things which will be very hot
tor the next whites who go there ?
“B.M.V.”: Always glad to hear from you....
‘Tot”: Very ingenious and very amusing. But
you should have sent it to Le Jouknal Pouk
Kibe— not to anv paper in this holy colony. .
“ Z ‘”.V 11 should be cestui que trust and not (as the
». M. Hebaed had it) cestuis qui trusts....
L.N. : It was Lerd Haddington. That
pompous old ass had said :—“I have no
opinion of a hound who does not obey
the ‘whip.’” “Your Lordship,” said Dis-
raeli, “ was doubtless well whipped as a puppy”
“T.M.” (Mudgee): The men is not a recognised
practitioner. His demand of £10 shows him to be
a greedy quack. See Dr. Newton.... “M.O.” : It’s
a very old witticism, indeed. Sydney Smith, had
he ever lived in Sydney during the dog-days, would
never have expressed a wish to take off his flesh
and sit in his bones since he would have found
grilled bones d la Southerly buster the very devil.
....“ J,J.G.” : It was a prominent officer of the
V ictorian Railway Department. He left i he colony
somewhat suddenly, but for well-understood
reasons, and has not since been heard of—officially
at any rate...."G.L.”: Thanks. Its only our
little joke, old man. Write again.. “ loianthe ”: It
was Dante G. Rossetti ivho said that Algernon
Swinburne was a case of poeta tutscitur non fit for
publication. . “ A 1’abri” (Redfern): Whatamean
fellow you must be to copy poetry from an Eng-
lish paper and send it as your own! “ Albury ”•
No, but we dare say the Baud Bill will b amended
in committee so as to grant grass rights to grass
widows — “O.T.L.” (Warrego): Tour verse is
clever, but a little too eratic for the Potts Point
duchesses. Sendsuinetning less Swinburnean.
"Peg” (N.T.); four communication very accept-
able...." J.M.”: We now really forget what it
was all about—“ Laurence J s” writes asking:
How far, in yards, is the Eastern Pillar of the
Marble Arch (Hyde Park, London) from the North
end of Park Lane ? 1 have bet that it is within
50 yards, and believe I am well within the mark.”
We have sent, Laurence, a man with a tape and
winder to measure up. When he communi-
cates with us we will let you know
“Fritz”: Your lines, though not without some
merit, are too tame. Try again, with something
possessing more “go.” Your story re the collar,
the sneeze, and the masher, is old material in a
slightly new form. Send something original and
ru Cy ..°£ s ' ) j. 1 -”-‘‘M.O.S.”: We know all about
the Fossils ot the Past;” perhaps Mr. Beale will
now give us something re the Fossils of the Pre-
sent “ Tasmanite ’ : Thanks “J.J ”- The
trustees of the Sydney Newsboys Brigade Savings’
Bank are reputedly straightforward, honest
men; but, at the same time, we think that
whoever holds the boys’ money should, in
toe ordinary way of business, find security..
M.J. ’: No, he doesn’t seem to take much in-
terest in the Australasian Conference. He's too
busy with his hen convention “E.J.” (Forbes)-
We must altogether decline even to insinuate
that any member of Parliament has ever accumu-
lated a large estate by lending money at ruinous
interest to poor selectors.... “ J.P. ’; You can hire
theatrical costumes oi James halnford, Cam-
bridge Club Hotel ; ot Bartolomeotti; and Wil-
liamson, Garner and Co., Theatre Royal. But we
don t advise you to hire any. You won’t look
halt as good as a Troubadour or a Roman Emperor
as you imagine. We tried u ourselves, and looked
hor ?; l<:1 * A.H.” (Gresford) : We dan’t ordi-
nary republish verses out of country papers
1 here is nothing in your effort which justifies us'
in making an exception to our rule “JA”-
Verses unsuitable. Send name with any local
mems.... “ T. W.R.”: Declined “ spokeshave ” •
Condense more, and leave out the “ I.” •• P.A.’ •
It wasn’t published, because, in the first place' it
was libellous anyhow, and, in the second, because
you didn’t give us the name of the company
S.S. (Melb.): To hand. Thanks “Adeloug”-
I he term “ recidivists ” meaning “ relapser ”
repeater of the offence,” “ backslider,” etc
is from the verb “ redeliver,' ’ “ to fall back ”
inddwer" coming from the Latin verb “ recido ”
to fall again”) “Newtown”: You ask “ Why
do the authorities summon and tine a little
boy for selling a certain newpaper on Sunday
and at the same time allow the Salvation Army to’
sell as many song-books as they like at two-peuee
each and take the money on the holy Sabbath
Well, the reason is shrtfiy this* tn* t the
little boy who sold the wicked two-penny news-
Pfffifi; + u el 8 n P £° a , small party with tew votes,
while the holy howling vendors of the two-pennv
books [are attached to a big and electorally-


REMEMBER THIS,
IF YOU ARE SICK.
If you are sick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature in making you well
again when all else fails.
If you are comparatively well, but feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspentic, or are
Buffering from any other of the numer-
ous diseases of the stomach er bowels,
it is your own fault if you remain ill,
for
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints.
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will find a “Balm
in Gilead ” in the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of all coun-
tries—malarial, epidemic, bilious and In-
termittent fevers—by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, HOP BITTERS
will give you fair skin, rich blood, the
sweetest breath, health, and comfort.
In short, they cure ALL Diseases of
the Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Liver
Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
£500
will be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in the them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
Hop Bitters, costing but a trifle.
Will you let them suffer?
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
GRAHAM,
&
* L
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment,
613, late 631, George-street, Sydney.
Gentlimkn,—I respectfully beg leave to bring
under your notice the superior style and fit of our
Trousers, whieh are out on the same unerring
principles as those which have made the name of
Hill, Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion in the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either in sitting, riding
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor braces
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain their
position in every attitude of the body.
They are designed to fit the corpulent as well
the slight figure, and are engaged to give to all the
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial wiH suffice to establish their claim
on your patronage.
I am, Sir,
Tourobedient Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM.
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION.
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT, WEAK-
NESS. Ac.
PRICE..
sb. ad.
Prepared by A. G. KBBBLEWHITE, Chemist, Ac
43 ERSKINB STREET.
Sold by W. H. SOUL, and all Chemists.
Political Points
The Echo’s “ Table-Talkist ” curtly de-
scribes the Chinese nation as composedof 200,000,000
of stultified creatures with full development in
twp qualities only, bigotry u nd greed. If both the
Echo’s “ Table-TalKlst ” and Buckle be correct,
there must be a striking resemblance between the
plutocratic secti >n of the British community and
the Chinese.
Matters with which it is intended that the
proposed Federal Council should deal:—Relations
of Australasia with the islands of the Pacific;
prevention of .he influx of criminals; marriage
and divorce; naturalisation and aliens; fisheries;
corporations and joint-stock companies; service
of civil processes of Australasian courts; enforce-
ment of judgments of courts of law of one colony
in another; enforcement of criminal process be-
yond the limits of the colony in which it is issued;
extradition of criminal offenders (including de-
serters of wives and children, and military or naval
deserters); general defences, within or without
territorial limits; quarantine, patents, copyright,
bills of exchange, uniformity of weights and
measures, &c.
In England the people are ably advised.
The papers of the masses tell them plain Bunt,''tin
truths in a plain BunnKTiN fashion, and it will not
be much longer that the Stephen Blackpool of
the old country will be paralysed and incapable of
action owing to an inability to comprehend what
they can do, and to a bewildering feeling that the
causes of their miseries are “ a’ a muddle.” “ It is
impossible,” writes one powerful English paper,
•* not .o see that political and social conditions are
so intermixed as to act and react upon each other.
The cause of quarrel in Ireland is that the ‘Haves’
wisn to keep all they have got, and the ‘ Have
Nots’ seek to acquire some interest in what they
have helped to create in value. If we wish to
avoid Communism and Socialism, we will have to
apply legislation to the work. We do not believe
that, morally speaking, there is any difference
between the Socialism of the many wanting to
appropriate the possessions of the few and the
system under which the few appropriate the
earnings of the many.”
“ J.B.D.” [“ An old Australian Colonist
can it be the ex-Liberal Constitutionalist, the ex-
Conservative place-holder, the dandy masher—
whose boast was he was the prettiest piece of flesh
in Australia—the incisive dissector (with turned-
up sleeves) of Parkes, the once smart and super-
cilious lawyer now in-his-sere-and-yellow-leaf
dotage—John Bailey Darvall, K.C.M G. ?] writes to
the Morning Post (the Belgravian flunkeys’
manual) The loyalty of Australians finds no
parallel in Great Britain. They desire to remain a
part of tha British Empire as an addition of
strength to England. ... In her Australian
possessions [England] has built up a power which,
in case of need, will be a buttress to the British
Empire.” This is the sort of stuff to which Eng-
lishmen are treated by absentee colonists. But
when the pertinent question is put, “ How many
trained men is Australia prepared to put in the
field for service in America, Europe, or Asia?”
“ J.B.D.” and his school preserve a significant
silence. “ The strength of England,” said a writer
a few years ago, “is within the four seas;” and
nobody has, so far, attempted to combat the
assertion.
The Convention’s Federal Council Bill
provides, inter alia, thar “ No member of the
council shall sit or vote until he shall have taken
and subscribed the following oath before the
Governor of one of the colonies * I, do
swear that I will be faithful and bear true alle-
giance to Her Majesty Queen Victoria, her heirs
and successors, according to law. So help me
Qod • Provided that every member au-
thorised by the law of the colony which he repre-
sents to make an affirmation instead of taking an
oath may make such affirmation instead of the
oath hereby tequired to be taaen.” This appears
to us to be not only a most ridiculous piece of
juridical supererogation, but a distinct attempt on
the part of pretentious colonial jingoism (bidding
for imperialistic favour and contingent K.C.MG.-
shippery) to shape the loyalty of the several
colonies ab extra. So long as the several colonies
are portions of the Empire, so long should the
allegiance which each colony requires from its re-
sponsible statesmen he deemed sufficient to entitle
them to represent their particular constituency in
a Federal Council. To require an oath at all from
a man selected or elected as the representative of
a loyal dependency is a blunder : to uemand a
second o.ith is an im pertinence—and should be
resented as such.
There is a prevailing impression among
Victorians to the effect that their colony is too
small. As they listen to their great men perorat-
ing, it seems to them that if any proportion is to
be maintained between the space filled by brains
and the space occupied by feet, the boots of the
orators would require an immense whack of ter-
ritory to enable them to stand up with comfort.
Consequently, some talk of annexing Tasmania,
and others of annexing Riverina or a bit of South
Australia, while others look wistfully towards the
Hebrides and New Guinea, with the hope of
grabbing soil. But it is questioned whether, of
those who thus yearn, one out of every thousand
knows really how miicli land the colony ox \ ic-
toria comprises. The feeling of tightness appears
to be a disease brought on by oratorical bellowing,
and the application of some poultices of statistics,
with a fomentation of common sunse, might allay
the spasms, and enable them to see that their
irreat and wise heads have nearly enough of this
universe at their disposal. Neither Tasmania nor
South Australia is likely to covet to have things
done “in the Victorian way.” Its civil govern-
ment, its newspaper press, and its Presbyterianism,
are fatally destructive of confidence among par-
tially-civilised peoples. It is only bits of New
Guinea and the New Hebrides that can be gulled.
But we maintain that Victorians who don’t know
bow much land they at present hold, should not
have a voice in claiming additional territory; and,
If that be admitted, then the whole agitation for
annexation is the work of only half-a-dozen.
Hon. Henry Bolton, M.L.A. for Moira,
iVic ) is still trying the patience of his consti-
tuents The last notification that reached them is
that he is working away among the gold mines of
Gympie. He connected himself—at all events, by
repute—with the sugar industry of Mackay. with
pastoral enterprises out towards the Herbert, and
now he is said to be up to his waist in mining spe-
culations. Formally and informally he has been
reuuested to resign his seat in the Victorian
Assembly. Parliamentary representation is often
verv much of a sham, but seldom reaches the
stage of outright humbug to which Mr. Bolton
has reduced it. What do the people of Moira want
with a representative at all if he is never to be
found in the House, or in Melbourne, or travelling
around the district ready to occupy the chair at
public meetings, and to dance with rustic " hea-
vies ?” Mr. Bolton has practically pocketed then
vnti ig power, and run away with it to Queensland,
Perhaps, however, he will return in the sweet
bv-and-bye. We think we see his lay. We were
in Gympie ourselves. We remember the sort ol
people we used to meet at the Freemason s Hotel
on the Hill. We were in the back-blocks, too, for
many a long day, and we sucked cane on the John-
stone River. We think we see the old stager’s lay.
As Harry Bolton, he would get very little trust.
His name would be worth the current coin it
covered. But as the Hon. Henry Bolton, M.P.,
there is nothing to baulk him in forming compa-
nies, and getting his hand into a big thing. Then
he may return—or resign. The name is a big part
of his capital up there.
Singularly enough, in one sense, but in
another, with some apparent attention to the
eternal fitness of things, when Messrs. Service,
Berry, and Kerferd went to the Convention at
Sydney, Messrs. Deakin, of Water Supply, and
Gillies, of Railways, went to Nhill. They reached
Nhill about 10 o’clock on Friday morning, and the
people of that charming place carried the Min-
isters, forthwith, to the local Mechanics’ Institute.
We are not going to make much of this thing. In
tact, ex nihiln nil fit. We’ll even stand clear of the
puns which bristle from the synchronous tableaux
of one half the Victorian Ministry converging in
■Sydney, and the other half converging in Nhill.
For, with Dr. Syntax—
“ 'Still a pun we do detest,
’Tis such a paltry, humbug jest—
They who’ve least wit can make them best.
It is the aspect of eternal fitness we’ll male a note
on. It happens that the spirit of annexation stirs
in Nhill also. Tnere is a piece of land between the
borders of South Australia and Victoria, which is,
it seems, a No Man’s Land Nhill prayed the Min-
isters to collar it, and Deakin promised to reach
out, if Bray will let him. That’s all. The passion
for collaring unclaimed territory is abroad. We
expect to hear, next, of a Nhill publican starting
out and hoisting his country’s fl ig over the spot.
We wanted a compendious name for this kind of
proceeding. We have it henceforth. We’ll call it
the Nil programme.
Mr. Levien is not the most prominent
member of the Victorian Ministry. This is not
wholly his own fault. A review of his efforts
shows that his comparative obscurity is owing to
circumstances over which he has little control.
Was it not the pungent Louise de la who
said that the world was all awry, because medio-
crity was endowed with so much effrontery while
genius was imbued with so much modesty ? Some-
body said it, and Levien illustrates it. It is un-
willingly that Mr. Levien is so little seen. His in-
tentions are as good as are those of his fellows.
His bearing towards Truth is characterised by all
that fastidious deference, which excludes the ob
jectionable nimia familiaritas of ordinary people.
Politically, of course, we mean. The passage be-
tween his promise and his deed is also sufficiently
wide to accommodate hosts of incidents wnose
combined function it is to show that circum-
stances have altered since the promise was giyen.
In the domain of conviviality he is also capacious
and enthusiastic. Cut, notwithstanding- all these
distinguishing traits, he fails to shine as he should.
The effrontery of mediocrity blazes, while the
modesty of genius blushes. Mr. Levien feels it,
and at a banquet given by the Lowau shire Coun-
cil, the other day, he suggested a means of getting
himself to the front. He lamented that when a
Minister engaged in a great work, he was “ put
out” before it was completed. He said he was
about to engage in a great work. Justsj. if only
Levien could hold on until Service and Berry and
Kerferd and the others died, then Levien would
be the most prominent member of the Ministry.
As our indefatigable friend, John E. Kelly,
seems to have made up his mind to give us no
peace till we affo d him a hearing re our Boss
Cockie cartoon, and as what he has to say appears
to have some sense and no harm in it, we bid him
be brief and proceed. He says:—“ The expression
put by me int. Mr. Farnelt’s mouth was no more
that gentleman’s exact utterance than were the
words tor which you gave him credit. M ne is,
however, a logical deduction from the surround-
ing facts, while yours is a contradiction In itself of
itself. How, pray, can a Land Act ‘save the
country, and ruin tue Boss Cockie ? ’ * Boss
Cookie ’ me ms non-squatter, non-dummy, bona
tide settler, one who is his own master, one whose
time is not at the disposal of the owner of the
station upon which his land is situate as is that of
the non-Boss Cockie or dummy. The Boss Cocke
is our Yeoman; his heart, his all—ah I his very life
—is in the land; out of the colony he carries no-
thing, for the reason that he has a mouth to fill
and a back to cover with his crop of grain and
wool. On an equal quantity of land, he maintains
one hundred and upwards of human souls for
every one supported by his natural enemy, the
squatter. You will, I feel sure, admit that this
Boss Cockie is a desirable colonist; and, if so, how
can you show that the colony would be served by
his ruin?—the squatter, of course, excepted, this
latter’s meat is the former’s poison. And, there-
fore, on your own showing, what you make Mr.
Farnell to say is absurd; wh 1st, what I make him
to say— i e., * We ll save the s juatter, and ruin you
and the country ’—is logic. Lest you may object
that Mr. Farnell knows outer than the selector
himself what is good for him, just allow me to
say that this latter possesses at least sufficient savee
to fully satisfy him that it is not a good thing for
him to have three-fourtns of the land he occupies
taken from him. Nor do I think that it is a good
thing for the country that it be taken and given
to another man at a lesser rental, and to be put to
a worse use. I know Mr. Farnell very well, but
truly I cannot conceive what he Is endeavouring 1
to do just now ; if, however, it be as yo.i say, then
am I confident tnat he does not know what he is
doing. For example, he gives out that he is deal-
ing with ‘the squatters’pastoral holding,’ whereas
in downright reality he is—so far as settlement
has extended—dealing with no such thing, but
with the poor man’s little home. This it is, or. at
least, three-fourths of it, which he proposes
(not to divide —the word ‘divide’ has no
application to the case whatever) to hand back
to the squatter. No man, who is not ‘in the
swim ’ —and I don’t see how the devil y >u could
have found your way there, and you so young—
with a heart in his composition, or a care for his
country, can stand silently by and see such a
diabolical act as this perpetrated. This is not,
however, the very worst part of the business.
There is a pr po-a! to refund out of our public
purse, somewhere about twenty millions to the
squatter, a big p“©portion of which money this
simple gentleman has spent in an effort to strangle
the free selector, or, if you like the word better,
settlement. Vou may, with absolute confidence,
accept all this on the authority of John E.
Kelly.”
• • ■
Spring, who doesn’t believe in statistics*
says he can smell a dummy afar off. We presume
on the second readighe will vote with the nose...
M'Elhone means to move for a select committee
re Stuart's mineral selections on the Illa-
warraiine. It should be gran ted him.... Treasurer
Dibbs’ celebrated cablegram, conveying his first
financial statement to the Press of Great Britain,
made a prodigious impression. In the House of
Lords, the Earl of Carnarvon created a sensation,
which was the talk of the city and the clubs for
days after, by stating, in the couise of a speech,
that the trade of the Port of Sydney, at the time
he spoke, was equal to the trade of the Port of
London when Queen Victoria ascended the
throne West Australia swarms with so-called
temperance societies. The Licensing Act there is
very severe indeed, and yet drunkenness thelves
like a green bay tree. All experience shows that
restrictive laws have very little effect on the
tippling propensities of a community Hallelu-
jah 1 Tidings of great joy! I The London Morn-
ing Post expresses confidence that Jingo-land
will annex New Guinea. Of course this utterance
of the organ of “ Jeames-dom ” settles the ques-
tion A Queensland journal states that El
Mahdi, through his solicitors, has served writs on
the European and colonial journals which per-
sisted in calling him the False Prophet. The
Bulletin is, fortunately, not in it this time. We
entertain for El Mahdl the highest respect—so long
as he keeps his own side of the equator.
• • •
“ Rebellion ” (so, at least, Tewfik and Co.
call it) is quite d la Mohdy in Soudan, all the tribes
in the Egvptian portion of that great territory
having cast in their lot with the Prophet—A
high Anglo-Indian official says that “the adminis-
tration of British India is probably as perfect a
system of government as the worid has ever seen.
It is a benevolent despotism, directed by an intelli-
gent and constitutional power, and surrounded by
every cheek which can prevent abuse.” A
fair way to test this would be to remove
the 60,000 English troops, and see how long
the Government would last Howard Vin-
cent estimates cost of crime in England
at £6,000,000. No less than 71,000 persons em-
ployed in the wora of detection and punishment.
Moral England!... Afghanistan has been recently
on the annex. By the conquest of Wakhan and
Shignan, it is alleged that she has extended her
frontiers to those of Russia At the Reform Con-
ference lately held at Leeds, the motion that the
franchise should be extended to women, was sup-
ported, in telling speeches, by Miss Cobden
(daughter of the late Richard Cobden) and Mrs.
Bright Clarke (daughter of John Bright.)
When Bismarck does a thing he does it thoroughly.
His last move is to forbid the publication in Alsace
and Lorraine of newspapers in the French lan-
guage. With the young men of the annexed pro-
vinces scattered through German regiments, the
language of the majority tabooed, and all official
business carried on in German, the rising genera-
tion will probably lose all their French proclivities.
Admiral Galiber is standing by to bombard the
Malagasy ports; French force in Tonquin to be
reinforced by 12,000; Chinese admiral at Canton
enjoins foreigners to observe strict neutrality in
the event of a Franco-Chinese war The Parnell
fund was announced to close on the 1st Instant,
Nearly £30,000 was realised, . J apan won’t ally her-
self with China, yet won’t permit French war
vessels to coal in her ports United States Con-
gressmen have petitioned President Arthur to
obtain a respite of the capital sentence passed on
O'Donnell — The Mohdy, according to cablegrams,
is playing the devil in the Soudan. He has de-
manded the submission of the Dongola tribes.
Baker Pasha starts this week for Souakim. Case
of pull Ba*ter, pull Devil. We’re inclined to fancy
the chances of the devil this time After next
relief, Australian naval station to have an Ad-
miral It is generally considered that the Prime
Minister of France is aiming at being regarded as
the successor to Gambetta’s mantle. His Ministry
now includes four members of the Gambetta
Cabinet, viz.M.M. Waldeck-Rousseau, Raynal,
Cochery, and General Campenon.
What would you say, Cissy, if one of them accosted you ?”
“Say? I’d say ‘ a jew ’!”


R
OBERT BUTCHER & CO.
(Late William Long),
0T WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Order* reoeive prompt attention.
N
O R M A N B Y
STAKES, 1884.
LEVIATHAN “ ADAMA8TOR ” COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £2,500, in 6000 SHARES of 10s. Each
100 PRIZES, £1226 for HORSES, and £1275 for
STARS, &c.
Plan of Astronomical Distribution:
First Horse (winner
of the N.8.) .. £500
Second Horse .. 250
Third Horse.. .. 185
Starters divide .. 150
Non-starters divide £200
First Star .. .. 400
Second do 200
Third do 100
Fourth do 30
Five stars of £20 each, £100; 12 stars of £10 each,
£120; 25 stars of £5 each, £125; 50 stars and towns
of £4 each, £200.
“ Adamastor ” begs most respectfully to inform
his numerous patrons that he thanks them for the
liberal support that he has received, and herewith
submits a programme similar to that of last year’s
Champion Meeting.
All parties are requested to forward drafts, P.O
orders, or cheques ; if cheques, exchange must bo
added, and in all cases postage fees.
Registered letters only will be accepted.
Application, by letter only, addressed “ Adamas-
tor, care of L. A. Pereira, 34 Bourke-street west,
Melbourne. P.S.—Results sent to every share-
holder. Notice—Sydney agency has been closed.
£10,000
To be distributed on the
Normanby Stakes,
To be run on New Year’s Day, 1884.
Capital, £10,000 in 10,000 Shares op £1 Each.
“THE MELBOURNE TURF CLUB”
Will hold another Mammoth Sweep on the above
Race.
ALL PRIZES I! NO BLANKS 1!!
Will be declared in the event of there being
£5,000, or more In the Sweep, when drawing takes
place (Dec. 28th). One-third of the amount will be
divided amongst unsuccessful subscribers.
Should the whole amount be subscribed, a £3,000
Book will be made on the New Year’s Races,
which, according to our New System, will realize
a profit from £3,000 to £5,000, the whole of which
will be divided amongst those who neither draw
a Horse nor a Prize in the Mammoth Sweep.
Horses and Prizes to be divided as follows, or
pro rata, if not fully subscribed
First Horse ..
Second,,
Third „ ...
Starters Divide
Non-starters „
Total £7,000
A Representative of the Sportsman will attend
Drawing in the interests of Subscribers at a dis-
tance, who cannot be present.
Send P.O. Order, Notes, or Cheque, with ex-
change added and 3d. for reply and result. Re-
sult posted to every Subscriber and advertised in
Australasian and Town and Country Journal.
Please enclose self-addressed envelope. Address,
THOMAS BENTLEY, Sec,, M.T.C., Swanston-
street, Melbourne.
MOULTON'S
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MGULTON’9
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and no
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit).
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Bold Everywhere, Price la. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
fi
man
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT.—Thi* favourite brand
of Stout selected with great care from the
best of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
cannot be excelled. To be procured everywhore.
OATTELL S* no.. Sole Arente
I
REGISTERED.
A SAFE, certain, and speedy cure for Nervous
and General Debility, and all complaints that
spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Liver and Kidney Complaints, General
Prostration, <bc. By its tonic and soothing effects
it at once removes all craving for Alcohol. By Its
richness in phosphorous and other powerful vital-
ising elements it nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. Price, 4s. 6d. gold everywhere
or sent anywhere for 54 stamps by the sole pro-
prietors, MARSHALL BROTHERS, M.P.8., Che-
mists, 106 Market-street, Sydney.
N.B.—Ail imitations Illegal,
Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREA I' LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favourite remedy. We all suffer more
or less from liver complaint, thereby hindering
other organs from fulfilling their functions. Set
the liver in order by taking the above remedy, and
heart, lungs, brain, and stomach will unite in
graceful chorus.
ABEAHAM’S PILLS,
The true invigorator. If your vital forces are
depressed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of coming
disaster, your liver is unequal to its work. T<-
obviate all these symptoms there is no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion of
the maladies and ailments attacking the human
frame are really due to a disordered liver. Set till?
organ in order and health returns as if by mag.o.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are imitations, ask for ABRAHAM’S
PILLS. See that each box, by whomsoever sold,
bears the inventor’s name and trade mark. The
Lab 'tatiry,
484 George Street, Sydney.
W. H. PALING,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
St
la'll
I .
EASY TERMS SYSTEM IS? INSTRUMENT.
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC, ETC.
adv
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON.-The
drink of the army, navy, the clubp, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOPPNUNO & CO. Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Havealw ys in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T, oa YEN’S
Schnapps .md Geneva.
A. MmA -N and SONS’
Edinbu g n Palo * le.
im
PAPERBANGINGS!
DADOES, BORDERS, Wlth
FRIEZES to nvatcu,
NURSERY PAPERS.
CEILING CENTRES.
FIGURES, SCENES, &0.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwick,
881 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &o.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. Jambs Curtis,
TJza.<a.erta,lsear,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten GO) years.
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
THE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco of the Age I
DESTINED TO ECLiPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The oi y Tobacco combining Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Price.
Each PLUG Is STAMPED with the word
“EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain it.
TaU no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
""u vell’s Tobacco Co., Lin.
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
An w a be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse.
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO,
Registered according to Act of Parliament, to pro-
tect the public against spurious and worthless
mttatioM.
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
W. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.,
THE BEST MAKERS IN THE WORLD,
AT EXTRAORDINARY LOW PRICES.
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & CO.,
U, MUST, and HARDWARE IMM,
397 GEORGE STREET,
56 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OP
Engineers 5 Tools, Pounders 5 Materials, Ship Chandlery, Coach
Builders 5 Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricultural
Implements.
ENCINE9
Robey’s celebrated Portable 'Wind-
ing- and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed,
adv
PUMPS.
Special Steam, Centrifugal, and
Force and Lift.
BOILERS.
Vertical and Horizontal.
MACHINERY.
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting and Screwing
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY.
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret Saws. Genera
Joiners’ and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam-power.
English and American Agricultural Implements.
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Horse Hoes, Land Rollers, Horse
Rakes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers and Shelters, Threshing Machines.
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
Coach Builders’ Sundries.— Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and Furnishings, Varnishes, and
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours.
Largo Stooks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ; Galvanized, Corrugated,
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled I Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies.
Wttolpacks, Sheep Shears. Oils, Raddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing and Dam Making
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Locks, Hinges, Nalls, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Carpenters’ Tools.
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND
397 George Street, Sydney.


A wooden ulster—A coffin.
Bunion in Prison—A big corn in a boot.
Amy: “ I think the Robinsons are very
poor.” Dot: “Oh, no, they’re not. Their father
wears a be'ltopper on Sunday.”
Did you ever hear of a magistrate who
never remarked, “ How painful it is to see a per-
son in your position in life,” &c. ?
The World says that “Her Majesty illus-
trates the contemplative, as the Prince of Wales
illustrates the active life of Royalty.” We pre-
sume the “ contemplative life ” is a chronic Brown
study.
Mail-clad Ghost of Hamlet’s Father (to
Horatio ) .* “ There’s something biting me just
between the shoulders. Just see if you can get
at it, Joe.
“ Will you ask a blessing, sir?” said a modest
member of the Y.M.C.A, to a solemn-looking gen-
tleman with a white choker, whom he imagined to
be the oldest of the company. The solemn-looking
fellow put his hand behind his best ear and said:
Please repeat your remark. I’m so blanked deaf.”
Assuming the produce of labour to be
represented by 100. In Great Britain 56 parts go
to labour, 31 to capital, and 33 to the expenses of
the Government. In the United States of America
73 parts go to labour, 33 to capital, and only 5 to
Government. This shows what a grievous tax the
present expensive system of Government is to the
working men of England.
A resident of Temuka, N.Z., bought a
horse in the pound for 30s., and re-sold it at a
satisfactory profit to a man who fixed it up with
riboons and hud It exhibited at the local show
where it took first prize for being the best cob.
This added considerably to its value, and it was
again sold to further advantage to a gentleman
who took it to the Christchurch show, where the
quadruped attracted the notice of His Excellency,
who took a fancy for it, and finally bought it
for Jb40.
Since those lengthy and biassed reports of
the Convention proceedings in the Victorian
papers, the N S.W. purveyors of the intelligence
afforded to the local papers have boiled down to a
few lines the speeches of the Victorian delegates—
we suppose as a sort of penal arrangement. And,
not content with that, they described Graham
Berry s speech of Monday week as marked by an
absence of the usual vigour which characterises
that gentleman s speeches. Vengeance, dear
Berry, for your clever “ pro-publicity ” speech at
the picnic on the previous Saturday.
Only the other day, we mentioned that
Lord Mountcashell, father of the House of Peers,
was to marry at the age of 91. But he has shifted
nis residence since, to where they don’t marry at
any age. He died after the wedding invitations
had actually been Issued for the 17th October.
For 30 years the Earl and his family had been
quite indigent; and his succeeding son, the pre-
sent Earl, is insane, and has been inmate of a pri-
vate asylum for years. The mercenary young
female has just missed a coronet; but it would
have been a dear one at the price.
That missing document from the Artillery
return, moved for by A. G. Taylor—those missing
do ®y™ e ots from the Railway “ squabble ” returns
all that can be found out about them is that they
are not to be found. That Colonial Secretary who,
some years ago, connived at the destruction of old
official records, because some of them contained
sensational biographical emoranda Apropos of
Potts- Pointers (and so on) and their forbears, set
an example that some people in the Civil Service
now find very convenient to follow. It is a plan
that at least possesses the merit of simplicity.
-A- Hibernian acquaintance of ours met, a
J? ay8 u a K°- in Bourke-street. Melbourne, a
friend who had just returned from the “Con-
I'inorig. They adjourned to the vicinity, and the
tourist began to answer leading questions. “ So,
back, have ye ? How did ye lolke the
paid place ? Wel l there’s not much of a change;
but they seem awf ully hard up. By the way, I met
your brother. 4 Is it my brother the Mimber, ye
r n ,an?2- * £P^., w hat did ye think av mo
brother the Mimber ? He struck me as being
a “°ut V?? Hat- in the threo kingdoms.”
Och! did he now ? And did you strike him back f”
It is cabled that President Arthur’s mes-
sage contains a clause in which it is pointed out
that it may become necessary for the United States
tc * other Powers to secure freedom
of trade m the Congo Valley. This would seem to
indicate that there is a party of American states-
men prepared for the abrogation of the Monroe
doctrine—a political movement which at the pre-
sent juncture, when the Jingoistic Britisher
is on the wholesale annex must be admit-
ted to be of singular significance. Should
Uncle Sam express A desire to have a say in the
Polynesian question, Mr. James Service will have
to discount his tall utterances—the new Victorian
gfinboats noth withstanding.
In New Zealand, Mr. Mitchelson has ob-
tained the portfolio of Public Works. According
to the Auckland press he is peculiarly fitted for the
post, as he is a carpenter by trade. Some years
ago, in Dunedin, there was a locomotive engineer
named Armstrong, whose thorough fitness for the
office was universally admitted ; but a Civil
Service Commission discovered that he had been
brought up a carpenter, so he was removed from
the Department. All his pleadings that he had
subsequently learnt everything about locomotives
were disregarded. Thus, we have a chief ap-
pointed because he was a carpenter, and a subor-
dinate dismissed for the same reason. Advance
New Zealand I
Calcutta Exhibition opened by Ripon, on
tne 4th, in the presence of Connaught and wife,
Governors of Bengal, Madras, and Bombay, a host
of native feudatories of the Kaisar-i-Hind, in a
word, in the presence of a galaxy of big bugs, in-
cluding Joe Bosisto, of Victoria, and Messrs Thom*
son and Franklin of N.8.W. A cantata, a history
of the show from its origination in the fertile
mind of Joubert (who is now triumphant, and in
expectation of being decorated with several Stars
of India), and an address from the Viceroy were
the lending features of the ceremonial. Universal
regret was expressed by the governors, princes,
judges, generals, bishops and “ other fallow deer,”
at the absence of whom do you think ? He
lives in Sydnev.
Before leaving for New Guinea, “The
Vagabond” starred it very conspicuously in
Townsville, where people speedily got to know
him from the amplitude of nis puggaree, and the
width of his red sash (bowie, derringer and Colt
peeping ostentatiously from beneath the folds)
worn so as to act as apron and waistcoat. But the
sash may be accounted for by the fact that Julian,
before landing at Cleveland Bay, had been living
on board a So ith Sea Island “ slaver ” (that's what
labour vessels are unjustly called up North) on
Kanaka rations, and travelling incog.; and his
tailor, to whom he repaired immediately on his
arrival, forgot to allow for the expansion which
would follow from a few days’ enjoyment of the
hospitality of Mr. Sachs, at Hermit Park. But-
tons refused to act, and the sash came In for double
duty.
M. Bonnard, Secretary to the N.S.W.
Government Commission at Amsterdam, in a letter
to Agent-General Samuel, after describing a visit
paid by the King of the Netherlands and the Duke
of Albany to the N.S.W. court, “ takes the liberty
to suggest that the two magnificent albums of
photographic views exhibited by the Government
Printer be offered, one to the King of the Nether-
lands and the other to H.R.H. the Duke of Albany,
In commemoration of their visit.” There is a very
widely prevalent impression that the Government
Printing Office is most expensively, not to say
extravagantly, conducted: and It must be owned
that there are grounds for the existence of such
an impression, when we find amongst the items of
its expenditure large amounts lavished on the
getting up of magnificent albums of photographic
views for presentation to British and foreign
royalty.
MELBOURNE WEATHER.
The sun, yesterday was so brilliant and baking,
I really felt ready to sink:
From morning till evening my thirst I was slaking
With different descriptions of drink.
As I wiped from my brow the profuse perspira ion,
Just didn’t I grumble and swear—
And remark, in a species of damp desperation,
Oh I what ought a fellow to wear ?
But this morning, alas! it is wretched and raining,
The gla s, too, at “ stormy ” is set;
As I strolled down to town, my umbrella disdain-
ing.
Why, I got ost unpleasantly wet.
There’s a something that settles, somehow, on the
liver,
A rawness and chill in the air:
My clothes are so thin, I a all of a shiver—
Oh I what ought a fellow to wear ?
vV’hile in nil hges of the World there hdve
tteeri Wdnien whose priori It was to spend fabulous
sums in finery for the adornment of their chat-ms
such women have generally been the favoured
few upon whom fortune shone. Never has sumn
tuousness of dress been so universal as now
From queen to cocotte, from city belle to sewing-'
girl, there is scarcely a female who does not have
her little hour of splendour. Even the kitchen
maid has her Sunday afternoon’s bliss. The
queens of society can shine morning, noon, and
eve. But never, till now, has the luxury of dress
been carried right into the maiden’s bed, been
indulged right on through the still watches of her
slumbers, and gladdened the eyes that gazed on it
by the morning’s light, ere ever her toilet is made
Beauty is an expensive thing, always has been*
but it is in these days that the acme of luxurious
finery has been reached, in £50 night dresses for
lovely woman. Some go higher than that, tor rich
men s brides. For years the thing has been going on
in Par s,but as only the richest people are concerned
knowledge of it has gone very little beyond cer.
tain circles. But the fashion has spread to Ameri
ca, and in wealthy New Fork and other places, the
millionaire women have tried to outvie one an-
other in extravagance; and even ordinary girls
ever alive to enhance their charms, have followed
as far aa they could. A lady, who lately had her
curiosity aroused to ask some questions about
these sumptuous robes de ndit in a Netf FUrk
Hordern’s; gives sUiUo interesting details on the
delicate subject; fdrnished by the “saleslady.”
This, she said; is a nocturne In nightgowns, a sym
phony from the inner toilet of a bride; it cost 123
dollars. Td an uninitiated niale person, it might
have seemed almost a ball dress—so full was it of
ruching, frills andintricacies of lace—except tbit
he would be puzzled at its form. Cut very
decollete, the opening was half concealed
by billowy lace, and down the front the
same material was carried in graceful curves.
<>n the shoulders were rosettes and short
sleeves ; a cord of pale pink traced the outlines of
the waist. In some cases he arms are covered
bu t in most the robes are lo w-neoked and sleeveless’
The best robes are made to order, and it is thought
as necessary to have a ac urate fit in them as in
costumes for more public wear. Do vou impor.
them ? was asked. No, foreign makers do no
meet our calls; they are so accustomed to fitting
the fuller forms of their English customers, French
actresses. &c., that they cannot properly drape the
lithe willowy figures of American girls, whose
symmetry is always slender. This, she continued,
taking up a marvel of soft, delicate needlework
from a satin-lined box, is 300 dol ars, nearly the
price of a Worth dress. It is exquisitely smooth
to the skin, and trimmed with insertion anO lace
°f the c stliest kind. Me - ding them is expensive;
all little rents in ruching or lace must be care-
fully repaired ; some ladies kick at night, and
am otherwise restless, the least carelessness causes
a tear. Here is one returned to us to mend half a
dozen times in three months, It was a gauzy-
looking garment of net, almost transparent. In
laundry work, most of the lace is taken off. A
request to know what colours were favoured, was
met by a smile of pity for such innocence. Why.
nothing but white was dreamed of I We would
drive a prospective bride away by the suggestion
of any other colour. The waist cord, and a tiny
handkerchief peeping out of the pocket, are the
only departures from the purity of whiteness.
But there is a large trade done in ornate dresses
for men also, though the price hardly ever reaches
£3. Ladies buy them as presents ; young wives
often surprise their husbands with one, and it is
getting quite fashionable for engaged girls to
present them fiances with such testimonials of
affection. It is only in the ladies’ garments,
though, that enormous prices are reached, and
it is from them the finest profits are made.
The majority of wealthy brides have night-
robes made to order when compiling their
trousseaux. “But,” suggested the visitor, “at
first sight it seems useless extravagance to spend
so much on a garment seen but by one person,
and then only at night. How vain they must be!”
The lady who ministered to the luxurious belles
was doubtful. “ I don’t think,” she said, “vanity
has much to do with it. You know woman's
beauty can be displayed, and presented in its most
attractive guise, in other places than the street or
the ballroom, and there is no reason why she
should ever be careless. Her beauty is her power.
A dowdy in the bridal chamber must be distasteful
to a young husband. Every woman likes to appear
fascinating in the eyes of her lord, and it is a com-
pliment to him, as well as to hei own advantage,
to dress well and daintily and prettily for him
alone.”
Professor Feeler, the Renowned Phrenologist, Examines the Head of Professor McManus, the Celebrated Pugilist.
Melbourne Dust.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DEDICATED TO THE CORPORATION.
A body, apparently that of a man in very
reduced circumstances, was found floating in the
YarraYarra. From the breast pocket of his coat
was taken a manuscript—a poem, adapted appa-
rently from “Beautiful Snow ”—
“ Oh I the dust, the horrible dust—
Thousands of times every day it is cussed I
Whirling in maddening clouds through the
streets,
Spoiling the clothes of the people it meets;
Flying to kiss a fair lady’s cheeks,
Leaving as legacies dark dirty streaks;
Laughing with joy as it flirtlngly flies
Into our whiskers and into our eyes;
Filling those organs with water and pain—
What would we give for a shower of rain I
“ Oh! the dust, how gaily it blows
Into the mouth, the ears, and the nose;
Flinging a lot of its horrible specks,
Some on our collars and some on our necks;
Upward ’tls borne by the soft summer breeze,
Blinding the birds as they sing on the trees;
Finding its way through the smallest of cracks,
Soiling the sofas and whit’ning men’s backs;
Filling their minds with the deepest disgust
At nought being done to dispose of the dust.
“ Once I belonged to the true ‘ upper crust,’
Loved for my riches, until I went ‘ bust;’
Once I might mix with the mighty and great—
Now I’m reduced to this desperate statel
Father, mother, and brothers were forced
To show me their doors when my fortune I’d
ost—
Forced to forsake me and leave me forlorn
Directly the last of my money was gone—
Leave me—alas, is it Christian and Just ?—
To loaf round the streets in this horrible dust.
“ Look at that damsel so dainty and smart—
Once she professed I was lore of her heart;
Now she looks down as I wearily pass,
Shrinks from me since I’m bereft of the 4 brass;’
Hurries along without pity or tear.
Even, maybe, with a shudder of fear.
Do I present such a sickening sight—
I, who was once every lady’s delight ?
Yes, It is perfectly plain that I must,
Covered with coats of this hideous dust I
44 How strange it should be that this horrible dirt
Should vex us, when, surely, some care might
avert
The sad state of things that in Melbourne is seen,
And make all the city quite pleasant and clean.
Choking, coughing, sneezing all day!
I’m getting, 1 feel, in an awful bad way,
And must die in the streets of this much-vaunted
town
Unless wo are blessed by the rain coming down;
The wind’s getting up, there’s another great
gust!
Oh 1 how can a sinner escape from this dust ?
44 Smattorod and smeared as I am by the dust,
One day, maybe, I’ll bo cleaner, I trust;
Ere my poor bosom no longer shall beat,
Perhaps they will happen to water the street;
Then—though I fear that the day is remote—
The pattern again I may see on my coat.
But stay 1 In the Yarra my corse shall be found,
Dust there is none on a fellow, when drowned.
Yet, strange! when my corse in a coffin is thrust
I will haste to return, once again, to the dust.”
The Fortune Teller.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Let me take your hand and scan it
In my weird, peculiar way;
I m acquainted with your planet,
bo attend to what I say—
For the stars. I find, are willing
That your future be disclosed
(Just oblige me with a shilling—
Even two, if you’re disposed).
When I’ve done a little dealing
With this nasty, greasy pack,
Then my power of fate-ievealing
Comes a creeping up my back;
I can read the distant future
With a certain mystic lore
(Anything that doesn’t suit yer
I can change —for sixpence more).
Husbands nine, my dear, you’ll bury—
So the cards have clearly shown;
Long will be your life and merry,
. Foryou’h seldom live alone.
And this “ knave" and “ten" (how funny!)
Lying Just beside the “ ace,”
Mean you’ll make a lot of money
From a “breacn of promise ” case.
Here 8 a husband u reat and wealthy
(lls, you see, the " Diamond King ”)
But he s old and most unhealthy,
And will quickly die, poor thing!
Tuen you’ll choose a dashing lover
(He, again, I find, is red),
But, it seems, you’ll need another
When a fortnight you’ve been wed.
the next succeeding seven
Will be handsome, young, and dark.
And wdl make their way to heaven
Ere you re thirty, pray remark.
Alter that, you’ll cross the water —
Seeking out another mate.
With a lair and only daughter
(Infant pledge to “number eight ”).
Shortly after your arrival
In a distant, foreign land,
You 11 have trouble with a rival—
(Queen of Spades, you understand).
Here the cards are full of danger.
And I’m very much afraid
That y° u ’ J1 I° v g a noble stranger
Who will wed the wicked “spade.”
Here I find you sad and lonely,
Dreaming of the noble’s smile—
Ah! I m glad to see ’tis only
lor a very little while;
loa week you will recover
irora this disappointment sore,
And will land a further lover.
Nobler than the one before.
For a Prince will come a-woolng—
You will be his Royal bride.
Joy and peace will be ensuing
(So, at least, the cards decide):
You will live and die together.
Happiest couple on this earth—
Now, my dearie, tell me whether
You have got your shillingsworth.
[* Bless her I— Ed. B. J
1) “Let me see? Your bump of
4) “Your bump of honesty is totally missing.
Q) “The formation of your head shows
great lack of brain power.
6) “How Professor Feeler’s bumps looked!
after Professor McManus had examined
them.
2) “ Benevolence is small—very small.
5) “ Here I And no indication of physical
courage. A child could knock you out.”


SCOTCH WHISKEY!
|V rHB PREMIES WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Dl<3. 2v£a-t"a.red.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.8.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
SOS George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY*
IS UNSURPASSED.
It Is bottled in bond for at the Distillery.
Dublia, and consumers may, t.. refore, rely that It
has mot been in the hands of hlsksy Doctors.’
When you ask for it, see that you get it,look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
A COLOSSAL THADE!!!
The following Gentlemen are engaged as
CUTTERS in the
LARGEST and Most EXTENSIVE
Tailoring Establishment
In the Southern Hemisphere.
Some 300 hands are now employed by Messrs.
8CHMERFIELD & Co., whose chief
place of business is
235 & 237 Pitt-st,
SYDNEY, with Branches at
NEWCASTLE, DUBBO.WAGGA, and 51 & 53
LEADEN HALL-STREET, LONDON, E.C.
Mr. H. W. CHAPMAN, the well-known City
Cu ttcr
Mr. W. FROST, Thirty Years’ Sydney expe-
rience.
Mr. C. PROBYN, of Poole’s, Saville Bow,
London.
Mr. H. J. TONKIN, of Tonkin, Sons and Co.,
Bristol.
Mr. R. MOBBISBY, Eight Years with Summer-
field and Co..
Mr. CHARLES TAUTZ, of Tautz and Co.,
Breeches Makers, Piccadilly.
At Newcastle :
Mr. WALTER RICE, best known Cutter in
Australia.
Mr. W. SHAW.
LLSIHUO.,
THE PEOPLE’J TAILORS,
AND GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
Hi Wa! i an Led first quality
moderA te
IViAtibHAU BROTHERS
SURSEON OENiliT* I06MARKETST e.
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS PERFORMED
WITH SKILL.
Teeth Stopped, and Exttraoted Painlessly
TflCnriMC Pleasant » Refreshing,
AUkUUIlCj Invigorating.
The non-a.coholio beverage acts as a brain and
nerve tonic, and does not intoxicate.
ZOEDONE
Is recommended by the Faculty as a substitute for
wine, beer, and spirits, as it invigorates without
producing any intoxicating effect. In case of
debility consequent ©n a long residence in a hot
climate, it is of great service, as it acts not only as
a nerve stimulant, but also as a permanent tonic
to the system.
Price per case containing 6 dozen H pints ... 1SW5
« ., ,. 6 „ I „ .. 24/
ELLIOTT BROTHERS,
72 and 74 Pitt-street,
Sydney.
PAINTS.
OILS.
WALL
CF papers
Office: 330 Goorgo-strast.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
83T" N.B. Patterns and Prices sent.
A CONTRIBUTOR to all the leading Journals
and magazines of Australia, supplies srlgi-
nai Isaders, essays, sketches, Ac., and newsletters.
Communications may be addressed to “Marco.”
care of Bulletim office, Sydney.
The use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are ti-.ee kinus, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and lied Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the Yellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to persons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
gums,decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
drops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only nev er su i er again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution—to guard against fraudulent imitations,
ee that each Label bem* (he name, “ Wilcox and
Co., 239 Oxford-street. London.’’
mm
ASTHMA.COUGH, BRONCHITIS.
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate relief In
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis,
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them invaluable, as they instantly check the
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
see that each box bears the name of “ WUeox and
Of... 239 Oxford-street. London.’’
T ATTE ES ALL’ S CUP,
NEW YEAR’S DAY, 1884.
No. 1 CONSULTATION.
Encouraged by past successes, i beg to
announce that I Intend having a
SERIES OF CONSULTATIONS
on the above.
No. 1 is now open, and will close at the earliest
possible date.
I must request immediate application, so that
fortunate holders may have a good opportunity
of hedging.
Distribution as follows :—
First Horse £1000
Second Horse 400
Third Horse 200
Starters (divided among) .. .. 200
Non-Starters (divided am ong).. .. 200
£2000
Address—
“JANITOR."
Care of B. E. Jones,
International Hotel, Sydney.
New South Wales Racing Com-
pany’s Consultation
ON
TATTLES ALL’S CUP.
NOW OPEN—1884.
5000 Subscribers at lOs.
First Hoise .. £1000 i Non-starters
Second do... .. 2501 divided.. .. £200
Third do 150 I Prize Gifts 700
Starters divided.. 2001
£2500
RUN ON NEW YEAR’S DAY.
W. BURNHARD, Secretary,
2 Wentworth Court, and Box 255 G.P.O., Sydney.
GAIITON’S HOTEL,
SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. G. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 345.
AYER’S
Cherry Pectoral.
No other complaints are so insidious in their
attack as those affecting the throat and lungs:
none so trifled with by the majority of suffer-
ers. The ordinary cough or cold, resulting
perhaps from a trifling or unconscious ex-
posure, is often but the beginning of a fatal
sickness. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral has
well proven its efilcacy in a forty years’ fight
with throat and lung diseases, and should be
taken in all cases without delay.
A Terrible Cough Cured.
“ In 18571 took a severe cold, which affected
my lungs. I had a terrible cough, and passed
night after night without sleep. The doctors
gave me up. I tried Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral, which relieved my lungs, induced
sleep, and afforded me the rest necessary
for the recovery of my strength. By the
continued use of the Pectoral a perma-
nent cure was effected. I am now 62 years
old, hale and hearty, and am satisfied your
Cherry Pectoral saved me.
Horace Fairbrother.”
Rockingham, Vt., July 15,1882.
Croup.—A Mother’s Tribute.
“While in the country last winter my little
boy, three years old, was taken ill with croup;
it seemed as if he would die from strangu-
lation. .One of the family suggested the use
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, a bottle of
which was always kept in the house. This
was tried in small and frequent doses, and
to our delight in less than half an hour the
little patient was breathing easily. The doc-
tor said that the Cherry Pectoral had
saved my darling’s life. Can you wonder at
our gratitude ? Sincerely yours,
Mrs. Emma Gednet.”
159 West 128th St., New York, May 16, 1882.
“ I have used Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
in my family for several years, and do not
hesitate to pronounce it the most effectual
remedy for coughs and colds we have ever
tried. A. J. CRANE.”
Lake Crystal, Minn., March 13, 1882.
“ I suffered for eight years from Bronchitis,
and after trying many remedies with no suc-
cess, I was cured by the use of Ayer’s Cher-
ry Pectoral. Joseph Walden.”
Byhalia, Miss., April 5,1882.
“ I cannot say enough in praise of Ayer’S
Cherry Pectoral, believing as I do that
but for its use I should long since have died
from lung troubles. E. BRAGD0N.”
Palestine, Texas, April 22, 1882.
No case of an affection of the throat or
lungs exists which cannot be greatly relieved
by the use of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
and it will always cure when the disease is
not already beyond the control of medicine.
PREPARED BY
Dp.J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists.
BULL-DOG ALE.— IT is not the clearness
or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALE
that preserves this c rand first in public
estimation. Common bitter crude beers are
made very fine, but no other brand has the
same mellow vinous character, the fullness on
the palate, and the great 1* eeping qualities of the
BULL-DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cau-
tioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred
to as equal in quality to BULL-DOG. CATTELL
& CO., Agents. Newcastle Agents: WOOD
BROTHERS & CO.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
308 GEORGE STREET.
’CtLEBRtf&l
role
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
' MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
AFTen otFOHE H0USTACII.landWHICEE2S. * fTEI>
Boyd’s Beard FUxirdid this, and
tciU do it oneither bald head or
bare fare. Forces heavy Boris,
tar he in from” to \ weeks and never
fails, 2o,U00 young men already
wear full beards, having used 1 to
3 pkts. A 'o injury, easily applied, eertain in effect,
earh, 3 for 3*. tod., post paid, sent under cover, free from observation
Address, Frank Douglm, Sole Agent,Box 730, O.P.O., Sydney,N.S. W •
Copyrighted .
Copyrighted,
Packets 1*. td.
STEAM & HYDRAULIC CAUGES,
| Engine and Boiler Fittings.
SCHAFFER & BUDENBERG,
of Magdeburg and Manchester,
HAVE appointed the undersigned as their SOLE AGENTS for the
Australian Colonies. Orders for Steam, Vacuum, and Hydraulic
Gauges, Thalpotasimeters, and all classes of Engine and Boiler Fittings,
are solicited.
10
PATEN
i
SCHAFFER and BUDENBERG carried oft the
CHIEF AWARDS and MEDALS at the SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and
ADELAIDE INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITIONS.
& CO., Silt kits, 207 George Strut,
OPPOSITE HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO., LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS Sc SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
Principal Agencies *
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON—Head Office : HONGKONG.
J. C. Goatling and Company (Limited)—Portland Cement.
The Tunnel Portland Cement Company (Limited)—Portland Cement
Marshall, Sons and Company (Limited), Gainsborough—Portable Horizontal, and Vertical Engines,
Threshing Machines, Saw Benches, See., &c.
Crossley Brothers (Limited), Manchester—The celebrated “ Otto ” Silent Gas Engines.
Bow, M’Lachlan and Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &c., &c.
Thos. Glover and Company, London—Patent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian and Sons —Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penyrorsedd Slate Company (Limited) —Bangor Slates.
The Quicksilver Mining Company, San Francisco—Quicksilver.
Fels and Company, of Patras and Corf u—Currants.
Thos. Bell and Co.—English Hams, Bacon, &c., <fec.
Red Cross Preserving Company, Victoria—Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, &e.
De Wendel and Company, Hayange, France—Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plates, Iron and
Steel Fencing Wire, &c.
Thos. Perry and Son, Biiston—Fire-resisting Safes. Drybrough and Co., Edinburgh—Ale.
Brunton and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse. Thos. N. Hunt—Port Wine.
Dubos Freres, Bordeaux —Clarets, Chablls, Sautemes
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES.
New South Wales.— Scott and Mullaly, T. AUsop, F. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros..
Jiudera Mill Co. „
V (CTOKiA.— James Fry and Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
S< iuth Australia.—W. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hincks.
CP r ~ INDENTS executed, on the most favourable terms, from all parts of the world. Consignments
of produce received for shipment to London, under liberal advances.
w:
fcotS
THE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO.
are the largest consumers off American
I, Leaf in the colonies, hence the FIRST
" position for quality is assigned to their Twist
and Flat Tobaccos —Yankee Doodle, Conqueror, Sir Roger (thick
twist), R. C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture, and others.
CIGARETTES.— Their CONQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold an equal position.
HTD. 4 S., Importers of Pipes of every kind, Cigars, aad „U1 Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods and Sundries
mn


Won Id-wide Honors to St Jacobs Oil.
THE Great Germaa Remedy, ST. JACOBS OIL,
stands honoured with the highest distinction
ever paid to a medicine. This is not only the case
in this country, hut abroad everywhere. At the
New Zealand International Exhibition, 1882, it re-
ceived the magnificent First Prize Medal, together
with the Highest Diploma for being, according to
critical tests, the Best Pain Curing and Healing
Remedy known to mankind. In this connection a
few testimonials from distinguished men are here
given as an evidence of the world-wide popularity
of ST. JACOBS OIL.
Opinions of Prominent Australians.
C. C. COHEN, Esq., Mullens-street, Balmain, Syd-
ney—“ One bottle of St. Jacobs Oil cured me
of a contracted leg of three years’ standing.”
Sworn to before Charles Kahlo, Esq., United
States Consul.
DAVID SCOTT, Esq., of the Irm of Messrs. Boyle
and Scott, Cricket and Football Depot, Mel-
bourne, Victoria.—” St. Jacobs Oil relieved me
at once of pain. I comment it to all footballers
and cricketers.”
W. P. BOOTH, Esq., Thomas-street, Balmain.—
“Nothing like St. Jacobs Oil, in my opinion,
for a valuable remedy.”
A. ADAMS, Esq., City View, Ryde, Sydney, N.S.W.
—“ St. Jacobs Oil cured me of a sprained knee,
and enabled me to walk about in four days.”
WALTER HAYNES, Esq., Manager for A. Church-
wood, York-street, Sydney, N.S.W.—” Acknow-
ledges St. Jacobs Oil as an extraordinary
remedy.”
J. R. DREWBTT, Esq., Town Buyer for Messrs
S. Hoffnung and Co., Pitt-street, Sydnev"
N.S.W.— 1 “ I look on St. Jacobs Oil as a univer-
sal panacea for all kinds of pain.”
A cash reward of one hundred pounds will be
paid by the Charles A. Vogeler Company of Bal-
timore, Maryland, United States of America pro-
prietors of St. Jacobs Oil, or by their accredited
local representatives, to any person producing
proof to the effect that the testimonials published
by them in regard to St. Jacobs Oil are not strictly
genuine.
St. Jacobs Oil, the great German remedy con
quera pain. Sold by Druggists, Chemists’, and
Medicine Dealers throughout the world. Price In
New South Wales, Half-a-orown a bottle. Direc-
tions for using in eleven languages.
ELLIOTT BROTHERS. Sydney.
Wholesale Depot for New South WhIoh
Printed and Published by The Bujuleiin News,
paper Oo. (Limited), 24 PibtHit.. Sydney. N.S.W. 8
Anticipated History.
When some traveller from the Mull o’ Galloway
takes his stand at the monument In Colllns-street
to sketch the ruins of the mansion under whose
roof the veteran Marquis of Normanby smokes
fragrant cavitas—Stay 1 this way of leading up to
a thing has been done before. It is generally sup-
posed that Lord Macaulay started it. He put a
New Zealander on London Bridge and offered the
crumbling columns of St. Paul’s to his pencil.
But it was there before Macaulay laid hold of it.
Mrs. Barbauld wrote a poem entitled “ 1811,” in
which she introduced a traveller from the Anti-
podes, who took his stand on Blackfrlars Bridge to
sketch the ruins of the same old fane. We might
argue that we have as just a claim to the dear old
soul’s method of “ leading up ” as Lord Macaulay
had. But we’ll not argue. We’ll begin again.
When then, in a century or so hence, some man
with brains tries to realise what it was, which, to
the Victorians of the present time, represented
the cardinal principle of social life, ho will, we
believe, after the first five minutes, get up and
have a drink. If his purpose be fixed, and his
determination strong, to work the problem to a
solution, he will, we believe, go and have another
drink. In his day, the Binomial Theorem
will be a part of elementary arithmetic, and
babes will lisp in logarithms, Fichte will
be a substitute for Robinson Crusoe, and Hegel
flrill have taken the place of Jack and the Stalks;
but the man with brains, engaged on the problem
of the cardinal social principle in the Victoria of
our day, will feel that all his knowledge is unequal
to the task of solving it. After several hours’
hard rumination, staring at documents, staring at
photographs, comparing statements, following
tendencies, gripping facts, he will, we believe,
with a head growing weary and a heart growing
sicV, go and have another drink. Perhaps his eye
will light upon this. We don’t know. But there
is a radiance about us as we write; the wind is
down, the night is at rest. We sympathise with
effort, and through the radiance our sympathy,
like a pencil of clearer light, travels to the
puzzled student. We see him. He is a little old
man, with spectacles the size of window-panes,
and inked to the elbows. His table is crowded
with books, all to one little space, and in that place
stand a bottle of Scotch whisky, a jug of
water, and a plug of Conqueror tobacco, with a
jar of ink, a clay pipe and a glass. As we look,
he goes and has another drink. He cannot make
make out how a young community, democratic in
ideas, tolling upwards with the spectacle of old-
world oppressions in its face, with a history
of tyrannies behind It—with a regal court,
in part profligate, and throughout cruelly
expensive, condescendingly professing to notice
it, could, if the boot of some noble person
who lived by starving many, trod the streets
of its chief city, or if the linen of a royal prince
fluttered in the dusty breeze, prostrate itself and
lie with its face to the flags, thanking the dignities
for having visited it, begging the dignities to do it
again, offering its wives to their embraces at
dances, and loading the air with a cry, ringing
again and again from Tasmania to New Guinea,
announcing its Intense, its profoundly intense, its
amazingly extended intense, its all-embracing,
never-ending intense Loyalty. That puzzles the
old student, and he goes and has another drink.
We offer him these aids to a solution. First, the
records which state that Victoria, at the time
under examination, was a democratic community,
are false. It was not. It was ridden by bogus
democrats, with brazen jaws and leathern lungs
without much brains, but with capacious adapt-
ability. They professed Democracy because Aris-
tocracy objected to their peeled noses and vacant
heads. They were ready to profess Radicalism,
and Diablerie Itself, if only the eyes of the upper
gods would be so attracted. But so soofa as this
end was gained, their hearts were true to the
social Poll. They were the recognised claqueurs
of Royalty and the Nobility. And the stolid,
blind, half-educated, dull-witted population of
Victoria at that time followed these bogus demo-
crats. That is our first point, respected old student I
You needn’t take your pen to jot it down. There
is ink enough on your elbow. Just set it there.
That accounts for the slavering and slobbering,
the blathering and blubbering, in which the demo-
cratic leaders of that day Indulged when My Lord
came oyer the seas, or when our Royal Prince got
a ribbon on his leg. And now we come to our
second aid to a solution. We tell him that if ho
searches down through the natural history section
he will come to the period when Victorians had a
Bunyip. Yes, a Bunyip. Victoria had a special
possession of that animal. The old student regards
It as a myth. Just so. But he is to remember that
it belongs to the same epoch as Victorian Demo-
cracy. Can he begin to see ? Victorian Demo-
cracy—the Bunyip I Hoi As a seer, we see the
old student scribbling across the paper, partly with
his pen and partly with his elbow; and following
the pencil of clearer light along his angular hiero-
glyphics, wo read: “Victoria was at that time a
blind, dull community, fit to be cozened and cheat-
ed, to be bullied and baited, and it was cozened and
cheated, bullied and baited; and the cozeners and
cheaters, bullies and baiters made fortunes and
positions, and the cozened and cheated, the bullied
and baited were glad of it, and the old-world
oppressors were more and more glorified.” And
then the old student went and had another drink,
and, as he swallowed it, he piously exclaimed
“ 0 damme I”
A very pretty quarrel as it stands; and, as
a specimen of national vituperation, about the
best we have seen. Annoyed, apparently, by the
particularly plain way in which Americans speak
their thoughts of what they see in aristocratic
England, the London Pall Mall Gazette says:—
“ London is becoming demoralised by the autumnal
plague of wandering Yankees. The nasal twang
is heard, and keen, vulpine faces stare from every
hotel window. Really, an extradition treaty
ought to be put in force, and these very objection-
able visitors shipped back to their own land like
Irish paupers. The Americans, as a race, are
simply unendurable. Forward, obtrusive, inquisi-
tive, and impertinently familiar, the American
has the soul of a flunkey, and grovels before a lord.
The manners of such a people must be, and must
remain, irredeemably vulgar. Anyone associating
with them should be doomed to social extinction.
They permeate our homes, and repay our hospi-
tality by personalities and defamation. An Anti-
American League should be formed to repel
America from our shores, with all her sprawling
magazines, her shoddy literature, and her shoddy
aristocracy.” The Pall Mall is one of those
intensely respectable publications that never “ in-
vades the sanctity of the domestic hearth-
stone,” and considers any exposure of social
rascality, especially if the criminal is well con-
nected, an offence to shudder at. To vilify
a nation, however, is different. Instead of
being crushed, the San Francisco Argonaut
ventures on a lamb-like reply:—‘It flatters our
national pride to know that the ‘ plague of wan-
dering Yankees’ is important enough, twang loud
enough, vulpine face sharp enough, to arrest the
attention of beery-faced and rotund-bellied John
Bull. That Americans are forward, familiar, &c.,
we ndmit; that we have no gentlemen, we regret;
I >it e deny, with indignant emphasis, that we
UTE flu ikies to English lords. It is in England, and
not America, that flunkeyism exists. It is there it
originated. The specimens of English lords that it
has been our pleasure to see are hardly calculated
to command our admiration. Their manners are
so wanting in courtesy, speech so thick, eyes so
defective in vision, conversation so uninteresting,
and faces so lacking in intellectual expression,
that if any American plays flunkey to an English
lord, we can only conclude England has not sent
us fair specimens. England should establish an
Anti-American league to restrict our sprawling
magazines and shoddy literature from circulating,
and our shoddy aristocracy from spending their
money, in a realm whose queen mourns with ir-
reconcilable grief the death of a flunkey who
slept upon her door-mat; and whose royal heir
patronises and associates with the theatrical demi-
monde, and yet is recognised as the first gentle-
man in England.”
The true strength of Captain Armit, the
New Guinea explorer, lies in constructing maps.
There is one of his in the Australasian of Dec.
1st, and no such work of art has appeared in Aus-
tralia-always hairing the illustrations in that
powerful work “ The Shield and Banner won—the
Crown of England lost,” by Mr. John Rae, of Sand-
hurst. Disdaining the trammels which too long
have held this useful art in leading-strings, the
captain places the “east” at the top, and intro-
duces a variety of improvements which will, no
doubt, be seized upon by less inventive persons.
We are ignorant of the process by which the work
is produced, but it is probably a simple one. At
first we thought the knob of a burnt waddy had
been used, but closer examination induced us to
discard this theory. The letter accompanying the
map is full of interest. For a mile and a half he
crawled along the top of a wall eighteen inches
wide and nearly half a mile high—clinging to it
like “ a fly to a window-pane.” But he was re-
warded by obtaining a splendid specimen of the
Tophorina atra. This bird is as chivalrous as it is
beautiful, and, before flying from a tree, always
turns to its mate and bows three times as deferen-
tially as a French abbd of the Ancien rigime. This
is a great improvement on some persons we know,
who, before leaving home, often knock the old
woman down just to keep her in good humour till
they return from work. Altogether this last letter
is full of news, and—well, there are a lot of other
things In it.
An individual lately arrested in Sydney,
and afterwards sentenced to a long term of penal
servitude for several forgeries committed in
Christchurch, N.Z., was a “cool hand,” if you like.
After imitating the signature of a respectable
citizen on a cheque for a few pounds, he was
walking about in some perplexity as to how he
could get the document cashed without exciting
suspicion, when he met the very man whose bank
account he was trifling with, and invited him to
have a drink. Entering Bryant’s bar, the swindler
called for drinks, and invited the landlord also to
join; and while his friend’s nose was lost in the
pewter, and his head thrown back so that he could
see nothing but tbe ceiling, the cool one deftly
tendered the cheque in payment. The supposed
drawer thereof being well-known to the landlord
as a good mark, Boniface cashed the document at
once, without question or remark, thinking that,
as the man himself was there, no doubt could
possibly exist as to the genuineness of the cheque.
A day or two afterwards, when he tried it at the
bank, he found his mistake; but his friend was
gone.
In striking contrast to the inane verse that
disfigures so many monuments, now-a-days, we
find the following on a tombstone in the Melbourne
cemetery. It is erected by sorrowing children to
the memory of their parents, and the lines are
particularly touching :—
“ Our parents dear sleep in their silent grave,
Where the dew is cold above;
And we, their children, weep and sigh
Ore the dust that once was loved.”
Leaving the rhythm to speak for itself, we would
wish to draw particular attention to the graceful
introduction of that word ore— evidently the old
gentleman was engaged in mining pursuits. After
once lighting the divine fire, the poet of the
family appears to have been carried away by his
genius, for, lower down on the tombstone, we
read : -
“ Are we not tending upward, too,
As fast as we can move ?
Nor would we wish the hours more slow
That leads to those we love.”
After a careful perusal of the last poem, we have
come to the conclusion that we do not “ wish the
hours more slow ” for the man who perpetrated it.
Mrs. Langtry’s name, in her American
mortgages, is given as “ Emilie Charlotte,” not
Lily at all. Whatever amount of truth there may
be in the constant charges of impropriety levelled
against her, one fact remains, that if ever it were
possible to live down scandal, Mrs. Langtry’s con-
duct has been a model to the world. Even if all
were true, the treatment of Mrs. Langtry by many
ef the American people and newspapers, was the
very essence of unmanliness. Most of the stories
set afloat bore “lie ” on the face of them. Under
a series of shameful insults, beastly innuendoes,
and cowardly stabs, such as few women in the
world have been subjected to, Mrs. Langtry has
maintained a demeanour and courage phenomenal
in a sensitive woman. She has kept her temper,
and never, we believe, under the coarsest provoca-
tion, retorted upon rudeness with an uncivil
return, or spoken a word that a lady would recall.
People have paid to see her, fought to see her, and
gone mad over her ; they have climbed chairs,
and hired balconies to see her go by ; they have
bought more of her photographs than of anyone
else r s in the same period ; they have copied her
dress, hat, boots, hair, bust, bang, and heaven
knows what beside. Owing nothing to wealth,
station, or power, but all simply to her womanly
charms, she has been, perhaps, the most successful
woman in the history of the world ; and if after
all this, she is vain, even her outspoken detractors
have never accused her of showing it. Tried by
scorching ordeals, her bitterest enemies will admit
Mrs. Langtry stands fire. One cannot undertake
to guarantee the Jersey Lily is good: but she is
“grit.”
We are proud of George Groves, of N.Z.
George is an evergreen grove—old, it is true, but
full of sap, and vigorous as a youthful eucalyptus.
This is how we came to know him. George was
brought up, smiling, but hard of hearing, at the
Port Chalmers Police Court, and it was there
sworn by a “number av the foorce ” that George
was a carrier by trade, who carried his liquor both
wisely and too well—as, although he was always
drinking, nobody ever saw him drunk. Now,
something must be done to a man who persists in
keeping sober when he ought to be drunk, and it
was decided to take out a prohibition order
against him. George owned up he had never been
drunk in his life, although, as a soldier, he lived
many years in countries where he could get wine
and brandy in bucketfuls and no questions asked.
He was not proud 1 He could grow his own barley,
make his own malt, brew and drink his own beer
without extraneous assistance—and keep as sober
as a mile-stone all the time. The magistrate said
that, nevertheless and notwithstanding, a prohibi-
tion order against him would be granted for a year.
This made George very deaf, indeed, and he had to
make his left ear into a funnel, into which the
clerk of the court poured the information that his
grog was stopped. “Eh, what? stopped my
grog ?” said George. “ But. you see, I don’t drink
grog; I only drink beer.” “ But your beer is
stopped, too,” shouted the clerk. “Oh, well, well,
never mind,” said George ; “I’ll have to go home
and get some more malt and hops mashed. It’s all
right, your Worship. Home-brewed ale, you
know.” And away the gay old “masher” hobbled
to prepare for to-morrow’s bout, leaving the
court to chew the cud of sweet or bitter per-
plexity at its leisure.
Muscular Maniacs.
The Way of the Worlds.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Joskins was my bosom chum,
K Pythias to my Damon,
Joskins always used to come
When I had a game on.
Together, many a merry day,
b- Love's swift darts we parried—
Then Joskins weakly fell away,
Bought new clothes—and married.
Pray, fair readers, do not frown
And ask me why he shouldn’t,
Or think—although I run him down—
I’d do the same—but couldn’t.
More than once I’ve had a chance,
More than once I’ve popped it;
But after tasting Love’s romance
I’ve always gently dropped it.
Joskins’ wife was short and slim—
How he used to praise herl
Mild, submissive, fond of him—
Tempered like a razor.
Her mother, too,—a nice old dame,
If you only knew her—
On a lengthened visit came,
And brought experience to her.
Poor old Jos. I often think
How quickly he was run down:
’Twas sad to see him homeward slink
To be inside at sundown.
And now he grew quite too, too good—
Never more a ranger—
Hankered after chopping wood,
And such like deeds of danger.
Drank but lemonade and slops—
Thinner grew and thinner;
Gave up theatres and “ hops,”
Stayed at home to dinner.
Once I saw him—what a lark—
Proud as e’er a pater—
Saw him wheeling in the park
A small perambulator.
While Jos.’s bread was buttered thick,
Like her wayward sex,
Jos.’s wife grew deathly sick
And handed in her checks.
Jos. brought round a tip-top hearse,
Did the thing in style;
Wore black kids—grew worse and worse,
Never known to smile.
Some weeks later—just by chance
I happened to make one
At a friendly song- and dance
Got up for the tun—
What! fluttering among the fair—
Flattering “the mother”—
Darned if Joskins wasn’t there
Looking for another.
Brunswick, Victoria.
HUGH K. LIPTUS.
He who Runs can Read; but Not when He is a Born Idiot.
Mightier than Muscle.
Holds Out Two Hundred Pounds—but
Doesn’t Hold Out to Three Score-
Yeara-and-Ten.
