

THE BULLETIN
VoL 1.—No. 2.—New Series.
SATURDAY, MAY 26, 1883.
Price —6d.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, MAY 26, 1883.
Common Law and Common Sense.
When law conflicts with public interests, it
becomes itself a nuisance. The decision of
the Full Court, as delivered by Sir James
Martin, with reference to the tramways iu
Sydney, does undoubtedly so interpret the
law as to bring it into antagonism with public
interests. There is a conflict of interests, no
doubt, but there can scarcely be conceived
auy case in which the convenience of the few
has not to be sacrificed in order to secure the
convenience of the man v. Take, for example,
the present Licensing law. The convenience
of the bona fide traveller is seriously im-
paired in order that the evils inflicted upon
the community by Sunday tippling may be
abated. The Chief Justice confessed iu effect
that the case is the same with reference to
the tramway traffic. “Tens of thousands of
persons,” he remarked —and he might truth-
fully have said hundreds of thousands —“ use
the trams every day.” It needs no argument
to demonstrate that the number of indivi-
duals who find their interests prejudiced or
their common-law rights invaded is infini-
tesimally small when compared with the
number of those who are benefited. The
Chief Justice stated with perfect apposite-
ness that with the effect of the law the Court
has nothing to do. Its function is to decide,
when appealed to, whether a law has been
observed. It would, therefore, be improper
to blame the Judges because their decision
has created a most troublesome complication,
provided their decision be a correct one.
But, if it prove to have been a blunder,
scarcely any severity of treatment would be
too great for their Honors. A blunder which
plunges a whole community into confusion,
which strikes at the public convenience,
and places the Government in a most
embarrassing dilemma—of which one horn
is disregarding the law, and the other
throwing into hopeless disorder a main
part of the traffic of a great city—is
inexcusable. If their Honors have made a
mistake, they, as servants of the public, de-
serve dismissal. There are depths of per-
versity and acts of stupidity for which no
previous fidelity or average of competency
can compensate. Luckily for themselves,
the competency of the Judges is assumed to
be determined before their appointment,
and they hold office on the one condition of
good behaviour.
* * *
On an abstract point of law the opinion of
three Judges is certainly more likely to be
correct than any we can offer. Still, as law
professes to be merely common sense re-
duced to system, it is no effrontery to
examine any decision by the light of com-
mon sense. Thus viewed, there are several
respects in which exception may be taken
to the Chief Justice’s deductions from his
own statements of the case. For example,
while his Honor laid stress upon the fact
that the Court had nothing to do with any-
thing that might have been within the pri-
vate knowledge of members of the Legis-
lature when the Tramway Act was passed,
Sir James really raised, in lieu of settling, a
difficulty. He opposed legal hair-splitting to
that common sense of which the law is said
to be an embodiment. It is common know-
ledge, and even Sir James himself, when off
the bench, knows, in the ordinary sense of
conviction, that the Legislature collectively
and officially meant that steam tractors
should be used, and has since by repeated
sittings, and by discussions relative to the
tramways generally, while motors were
in use— as when Mr. Trickett objected
to upper-decked cars — shown itself con-
tent with existing arrangements. But
that is not all. Sir Jambs made it a point
that the sanction of the Assembly should
have been specific, became the running of
the trams as now effected constitutes a
common-law nuisance, a condition which
the Legislature could not be supposed to
approve, in the absence of clear and explicit
legislation embodying such approval.
* * *
This appears a very strong and correct
statement. If the running of trams-cunv
motors constitute a common law nuisance,
the Legislature must be assumed, as the
Court has done, to have not approved that
nuisance, in the absence of specific evidence
that it did approve it. If the running of the
trams constitute a nuisance at common law,
then Sir James Martin and his brother
Judges are right in their main judgment.
Moreover, the Chief Justice specifically ruled
that the trams and motors do constitute a
nuisance. This makes his ruling at least co-
herent. And the question of nuisance is the
real point upon which the judgment turns.
His Honor was clear enough on this point,
He pointed out; “ It was a well-established
common-law right that every man was
entitled to free use of the highway for him-
self, his horse, and his vehicles, at all hours
of the day and night, subject to certain
rules such as those laid down for the regula-
tion of traffic. So long as he did not invade
the rights of other parties, no diminution of
these rights could take place except by the
authority of Parliament. This was a common
law right well understood in the rudest
times, and which had grown with the ad-
vance of civilisation.” And, quoting authori-
ties, Sir Jambs laid stress upon a case in
which it was laid down that “ the primary
object of a street is for the free passage of
the public, and that anything which impeded
that free passage was a nuisance.” Sir
James adopted this ruling, and added it to
his own very fair corollary that “ no person
had a right to abridge the use of a highway
or render it less commodious.” This appears
good law, that is to say sound common sense;
and, therefore, if the subsequent application
of it by the Court be equally sound, their
Honors are clearly right. But it is by no
means clear that the application made will
stand examination,
If the primary object of a street be for the
free passage of the public, and if anything
which impedes that free passage be a nui-
sance, the question arises, do the trams as at
present run with motors, do more to impede
or to facilitate the free passage of the public.
It must be admitted at onoe that the trams
have to a very great extent driven other
vehicular traffic off some of the streets where
they run. This, however, is due in part to
the fact that the trams have superseded
some sorts of conveyances on account of
the preference for tram transit as compared
with transit by—for instance—omnibus. The
force of this will be seen at once by regard-
ing the case of George-street. In George-
street there is no tramway. Yet the vehi-
cular traffic in George-street has been re-
duced in a very marked degree by the trams.
There is no longer the jam and rush of omni-
buses that there used to be before the trams
were started. But, again, it must be obvious
that for other traffic, the heavier traffic of
carts and vans, the tradesmen’s goods-carts,
and so forth, the streets where trams run
are not* so convenient as they were before
the trams existed, and that in some degree
the employment of locomotive steam engines
is responsible for this restriction of access.
The convenience of foot-passengers 1ms also
been affected, and their security impaired, a
little; —certainly not much, but still im-
paired.
* * *
But when all this is granted, a balance has
still to be struck before it can be determined
whether “ the free passage of the public ’’
has, on the whole, been impeded or facili-
tated. As Sir James remarked; “ Tens of
thousands of persons use the trams daily.”
We say hundreds of thousands. But take
the Chief Justice’s estimate. Has the intro-
duction of the trams and the employment of
steam motors resulted in the number of
persons making use of these streets being
diminished or increased ? Obviously the
number has been enormously increased.
How can it bo maintained that conveni-
ences, which have enormously increased the
number of persons using a street for free
passage, have, broadly speaking, impeded
free passage in such street ? To assert that
such is (he case may be sound law, but it is
certainly not good sense. Meanwhile, how-
ever, it is Supreme Court law, and obedience
to such law, where it operates to protect the
rights of a minority, is one of the most sacred
obligations of Government. The Ministry
have been put into a tlx. They are the cus-
todians of public convenience, and to ob-
serve the law as laid down by the Court
would be to sacrifice that convenience. To
disobey the law, on the other hand, is to set
a precedent capable of most disastrous
abuse under very different circumstances.
The case is one in which a wrong has to be
done in any event, and particular advice
would be impertinent. In a general sense,
the counsel may be given that the Govern-
ment choose the evil which appears to them
to entail the less serious complications, and
to accept the responsibilities.
Shepherdless Sheep.
It was only the other day that, under the
heading “ Blessed are the Rich,” we indi-
cated the necessity which has devolved upon
the churches of placing themselves in har-
mony with the sentiments of the people —
the very vulgar. Now, in this instance, by
“the we do not mean the small
tradesman and “respectable” artizan. We
mean the artizan who doesn’t give a snap
for the stamp of respectability in the sense of
observing all the convenances and preserv-
ing a supple and deferential manner of
thought and action towards such as are in
authority over him. By “the people,” in this
instance, we mean the uneasy, as distin-
fuished from the easy, classes. We mean
he disputative cobbler, the radical hod-
man, the factory hand with a grudge against
everybody better off than himself in
short, the modern dangerous classes, as
distinguished from but overlapping the
criminal class. There are great movements
afoot, and nothing is more clear than that, if
the clergy do not either get out of the way
or march with the people, they will be lett
behind or trampled under foot. In the
main, their present attitude —a sufficiently
ridiculous one—is of opposition to the tide of
democratic thought. lu this colony their
conservative antagonism to the ideas which
commence to leaven modern mankind is
peculiarly marked. At Home, some, at
least, among the clergy appear to have
addressed themselves to study the principles
of Social reformers, and to have perceived
that these principles—albeit absolutely an-
tagonistic to conventional Christianity —are
in perfect harmony with the primitive spirit
of our religion. Says “Kosmos” in The
World, addressing the new Archbishop of
Canterbury: —
“ Already the conviction that the Establishment
ought to do something to relieve the misery of the
masses, to lighten the burden of suffering that
rests upon our poor, to humanise the social resi-
duum, is growing; East-end clergymen preach lay
MR.'_F. W. HADDON, EDITOR OF THE ARGUS.


Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above is Rnm
and taken at bed-time made hot
,0" PUKE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6s. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS'
Single Bottle Dejutiiut,
MARKET STREET
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
C. w. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
eci.
A GLASS OP WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER, P
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed nt
other establishment in the world y
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per Half-Pint,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome of all Beverages.
C. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELISH WHISKY,
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR +** PALE BRANDY,
6s. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS,
Market Street, Sydney.
** a * ji 1 u 1 tub S
FURNITURE ! FURNITURE!
4 »the best place to buy Furniture!’ 1
▼ jjTLMiHostion is being asked every day,
and is of tSkynuch interest to anyone neediny a
single as to the “Happy Couple” Just
setting ffliusekeeping, and who want every-
thing f tom a kitchen table to a drawing-room suite.
VISIT THE
HYDE PARK
Furnishing Exhibition
OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY,
Just opened by
Late HARDY BROTHERS.
EVERY HOUSEHOLD REQUISITE MAY
BE HAD HERE.
1ST" Don’t be misled and waste time and money hJ
sending from one place to another; but remem-
ber that
The Largest Stock offers the Best Selection
THE HYDE PARK FURNISHING EXHIBITION’
is the Most Extensive Establishment in the
Colonies.
For SUBSTANTIAL FURNITURE,
ELEGANT FURNITURE,
WELL-MADE FURNITURE,
DURABLE FURNITURE
Go to the
HYDE PARK FURNISHING EXHIBITION
For Good Workmanship, Excellence and Burt
bllity of Materials, the Goods now on otter
unequalled, whilst the Prices will be found
MARVELLOUSLY" LOW !
This vast collection has been selected and roan
tured with a. practical regard for modem
qulrements and improved taste.
We invite you to inspect our Stock;
be asked to buy what you do not want,
object is to RETAIN as well as OBTAIN pam”' Jjj
and we rely on the satisfaction, good opmm
recommendation of our customers.
Remember these Important tacts .
OUR STOCK IS THE LARGEST, j|j
OUR STOCK is the MOST COMPREHEN 3
OUR STOCK IS THE BEST,
OUR STOCK IS THE CHEAP
nackin?*
i the
The utmost care is given to
forwarding all goods bought at this Estan - 0l# |
and Country Customers may rely up (in ;" oftW*
execution of their orders,and the delivery
purchase in a sound condition.
The Rates of Subscription to The Bulletin,
New Series, are—For one year, 31s.; half-year,
13s.; quarter, 6s.
The Advertising Rates in the New Series are 5s.
per inch; special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 36 consecutive insertions,
15 per cent.: For 53 consecutive insertions, 35 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion.
sermons on Christian Socialism. The title is omi
nous; luid it foreshadows the movement of the
immediate future, the tendency of which is to
ipok to the State to euro the evils which competi-
tion has caused. Humdrum persons are beginning
to feel that unless Christianity, and the Church o;
England as its official embodiment, can do some-
thing to render the lot of the millions, whose life
is one perpetual torture and curse, less intolerable
they are failures.”
* * #
This unexpected endorsement of our views
should give added force to the demonstra-
tion we attempted. The times are very
critical. Poverty and misery debase and
brutalise to an extent very closely propor-
tioned to their severity. The poorest and
most miserable are the first to feel the in-
justice of social inequalities and the need ol
a sweeping change. The coolest and mosi
disinterested among thoughtful men are
the first to understand the necessity,
and the best able to comprehend the
wisest and safest methods, of accomplishing
the revolution which they perceive to be in-
evitable. Notwithstanding the exceptions
to whiclx reference is made above, it may be
generally affirmed that the clergy every-
where have opposed themselves to the prin-
ciples of social reconstruction. The conse-
quence has been that on all hands, and in all
countries, the most miserable classes—a con-
vertible term for the most ignorant and
brutal—have broken loose altogether from
pastoral guidance, and have undertaken to
reform the world under the leadership of
men of their own order, and by methods
which suggest themselves to their own
stunted intelligence and embittered temper.
Nothing could be more unfortunate. Evo-
lution is always preferable to revolution;
and were the clergy true to the teachings of
the New Testament, in lieu of adjusting
their theology to accord with the sentiments
and convenience of the fortunate and privi-
leged classes, the world might progress by
evolution in lieu of being precipitated into
revolution.
* * *
The change is coming. All signs indicate
that the tune when the masses might have
been guided by cool heads has passed away,
and that a frightful and catastrophic contest
between wealth and want, poverty and
privilege, is about to commence—a conflict
in which each side will use, without ruth or
hesitation, whatever weapons are available.
On the one hand, the whole machinery of
legalised oppression and advantage, some-
times called law and order, will be set in
motion with pitiless severity. The institu-
tions of police and of standing armies will
be utilised to wage a more ferocious repres-
sion than Alva exercised in the Netherlands.
On the other, assassination in all its fearful
varieties —wholesale by explosives, and retail
by the dagger and the revolver — will
scourge society. Modern civilization will
be strangled and torn to shreds be-
tween the furious combatants, and
only in this respect will the result vary
from what might be decently secured by
evolution under proper guidance. For the
day has gone past when numbers were of
no avail. A handful of steel-clad knights
sufficed to quell naked insurgent serfs, how-
ever numerous. The advantage of the few
110 longer is personal when it comes to a
trial of strength. They are not individually
and collectively better trained to fight, less
vuluerable in their bodies, better exercised,
and in better training than the mere hench-
man. Their only strongholds are legal in-
titutions which fall like the walls of Jericho
when the trumpet is boldly sounded. Revolt
on a considerable scale paralyses “ law and
order,” and leaves those who shelter behind
its air-drawn battlements open to every
assault. Standing armies and bodies of
police will serve awhile, probably, to give
the advantage to the ruling classes. But
the elements of which even these are com-
posed have so strong an affinity for the op-
posite party, that such resources are certain
to undergo gradual diminution as they are
attracted atom by atom to the other side.
♦ * *
In the long run, the many must win, this
time; and a reign of brutal Nihilism and
violent confusion must surely ensue in
the old world. All this might have
been prevented had the shepherds of
the faith been true to their religion
mid their trust. The weak would have
been strengthened by the countenance
and support of ministers of (ion. And, thus
allied, they would long ago have possessed
moral influence sufficient to compel a gra-
dual yielding to their just demands, and a
gradual abatement of their appalling wretch-
edness. With each such concession, and
with each such abatement, would have come
a softening of temper and an easing of strain
which would ultimately have rendered
changes of extraordinary magnitude easy
and peaceable. Readjustment of relations
now felt to be unbearable, would have been
effected gradually and without appreciable
disturbance—without violence and inflam-
mation on the one side, and revenge and
desperation 011 the other.
* * *
There is still some opportunity. The
wealthy and prosperous are not in great
need of pastoral ministrations or temporal
help. Their lives are mostly regulated ac-
cording to the approved canons far better
t han the lives of the needy and wretched.
It is tin; starvelings of the tvorld who fill its
gaols, and inspire society with a sense of
dread and insecurity. Let the clergy just
leave the pew-renters to get along as best
they may, while they expend as much effort
in cultivating the confidence and schooling
themselves to sympathise with the views and
grievances of the desperately needy, as they
now do to stand well with the threepenny-
bit bourgeoisie. If the case of the masses be
looked into with a discriminating mind and
a candid spirit, it can be seen that their
grievances are very real and their disabilities
due to distinct departures from the injunc-
tions of tins New Testament. If the pro-
fessors of the modern art of theology, which
is wrongly dubbed Christianity, would but
be content to obey their Bible instead of
racking their ingenuity to explain away
every passage which does not harmonise
with the current definition of what is “ com-
mon sense ” and “law and order,” they
would speedily find a mission that would
involve them in infinite temporal discredit,
and invest them with infinite eternal glory.
* * *
Socialism is an inevitable force. Its victory
over existing arrangements is certain. But
unless it be guided by thoughtful, earnest,
and capable men, in acting dispassionately
and oven at a personal sacrifice, instead of
by men stung into motion by intolerable
suffering, and actuated by instinct in lieu of
conviction—men all aflame with a sense of
injury and blazing out class hatred and
bitter envy —victory will be preceded and ac-
companied by horrors unprecedented. A
Christian Socialism would avert all this. And
there is no incongruity in the collocation of
terms. The whole spirit of the New Testa-
ment is a spirit of self-denial and brotherly
feeling. The rich are enjoined to share
positively and unreservedly with the
poor. One’s neighbour is not the Pharisee
m the next pew with the villa in the same
street. He is the hapless wretch who has
been despoiled of his rights, and flung help-
less by the world’s wayside—a revolting
object. His garments are torn, his moral
principles have been beaten out of shape by
cruel blows, his sense of right has been
shattered by a sword-thrust>—he hardly re-
tains the aspect of humanity, so mauled and
battered has he been. And, moreover, he is
not even a child of Israel. He is a wretched
Samaritan—from China or Tipperary—and
speaks with a peculiar accent —a Pigeon-
English or Samaritan brogue. Yet, it is just
he whom one is enjoined to succour, even
though the act bring upon you the scoffs of
your brother Pharisees, and smirches your
own spotless robes with the stains which vio-
lence and wrong have plentifully smeared
him. We have inverted the parable, but
who dare sav we have distorted the sense ?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Paddy and the Pope.
In declaring, however tardily, against the Irish
National Movement, the Pope has been perfectly
consistent as head of the Roman Catholic Church.
A potentate who lives in perpetual protest against
a revolution which deprived him of his own tem-
poral dominions, could not be in sympathy with
anything which savoured of agrarian reform. The
Pope, it must be remembered, claims to be not
only Pontiff but Sovereign. The aims of Irish
reformers are too closely allied to the objects of
Italian intramigeanta to commend themselves to
the favour of His Holiness. We can’t say we feel
much sympathy with the Irish members in this
difficulty. It was but last week that they them-
selves permitted sectarian prejudices to sway
them in political questions. They denied to
Bradlaugh the justice which they demand for
Ireland. This intrusion of religious intolerance into
political affairs they now themselves experience
to their own dismay and confusion. The mani-
festo of the Pope is really a ver3’ welcome effu-
sion to such as like ourselves deprecate the idea
that the trouble in Ireland is based on religious
differences. We have repeatedly pointed out that
the struggle is essentially a social one, and will yet
have to be repeated in England and Scotland, as it
is already commenced in every country on the
European Continent. It is a revolt of the many
against the privileged classes. The Roman Church
Is essentially aristocratic in its constitution; and,
if there is to be a levelling process, it will neces-
sarily have to submit to reconstruction like any
other institution of the kind. The Pope is the
natural ally of Kings and kingcraft. Sooner or
later he must have declared himself. It has been
natural that he should have hung back when the
Irish—the most faithful among his followers—were
concerned. But we cannot have failed to recognise,
what it has been the labour of landlords and bigots
to conceal, that the present movement in Ireland
is not a Popish operation. It is led by a Protes-
tant, and alms indifferently at landlordism—that is
to say at artificial privilege—without discriminat-
ing between landlords who are Protestants and
landlords who are Roman Catholics. It is quite
time that the true aspect of the struggle should be
cleared from misconceptions. We believe that the
Pope’s opposition, although it may temporarily
paralyse the efforts of Irish reformers, will help
materially to remove the prejudices which have
disabled many natural allies of the oppressed
classes in that country from perceiving the real
significance of their struggle. The Irish threaten
to Boycott the Pope. Under the circumstances,
even Orangemen will be open to reflect whether
after all a political agitation which the Pope con-
demns may not have a good deal to recommend it.
“Vain Learning All.”
—MILTON.
Three scholarships were open at the Sydney
University. Mr. Byram wrote “heroic” verse
which nobody will ever have the heroism to read,
and Mr. Nicholson has set his muse to the mangle
and wrung out some rags of Latin verse, and
hung them out to dry on the tomb of Garibaldi.
But for the English prose prize, there was not a
single competitor. We hand the subject over to
John Milton, “the greatest scholar this island
has produced,” said the master of prose, De
Quincey. Here’s what he says of the intellectual
outfit given by such universities as ours.—“So
that they, having but newly left those grammatie
flats and sliallows, whore they stuck unreasonably
to learn a few words with lamentable construction,
and now on the sudden transported under another
climate, and turmoilod with their unballasted
wits. . . . do, for the most part, grow into
hatred and contempt of learning, deluded all this
while with ragged notions and battlements. . . ,
Poverty or youthful years call them their several
ways, either to an ambitious and mercenary, or
ignorantly zealous divinity; some allured to the
trade of law, grounding their purposes not fin the
contemplation of justice and equity which was
never taught them, bnt on the pleasing thoughts
of litigious terms, fat contentions, and flowing
fees; others betake them to state affairs with
souls so unprincipled in virtue and true generous
breeding, that flattery and tyrannous aphorisms
(damn the public) appear to them the highest
points of wisdom.” . . . And these are the
errors, and these are the fruits of misspending our
prime youth at the schools and universities
as we do, cither in learning more words, or
such things chiefly as were better unlearned.”
The subject prescribed for the English essay is the
bitterest satire on the training given by the Uni-
versity. It contains in itself a glaring indication
of the direction in which the studios of the open-
ing manhood of the more leisured classes should
be spent: “The advantages and disadvantages of
Aristocratic Government.” It is in the very midst
of such questions that the present generation are
destined togrow up. The whole political life of the
civilised world will be bound up in considerations
related to that, and yet here, amongst a swarm of
gentlemen who are ticketed B.A., and sent forth
labelled “scholar,” wo have not a man who thinks
such questions of as groat importance as knowing
the language and histories of people long gone into
oblivion. Or, if some hazy notion of the applica-
bility of the lessons of antiquity to our own time
exists, there is not the ability to sot it down In
another tongue. And yet these are the men
who drift out into the upper social stratum as
doctors, lawyers, clergymen, &c., and continually
clamour for Culchaw as indispensable to the work-
ing out of democratic Institutions. And clamour
they may, for while Culchaw consists of acquiring
a monkish experience In exercises that might have
been got in Salamanca hundreds of years ago, the
real fierce ruggedness of common sense, with all
its uncouthness, will continue to rule in virtue of
a more practical training. Might justly becomes
right.
♦
Dr. Harman Tarrant has been continuing in the
columns of the Herald his attack upon the Immi-
gration Agent. Or rather, to speak by the card, ho
has been replying through the Herald to the
strictures to which his action in Parliament exposed
him. We don’t think Dr. Tarrant has improved
his position. His letter proves what was before
merely suspected—namely, that the matter is a
mere personal quarrel between Mr. Wise and a
professional friend of Dr. Tarrant’s. There’s not
a vestige of any considerable principle sticking
out anywhere. Simply Dr. Tarrant’s friend has
been affronted by the Immigration Agent, and
perhaps very shabbily and unjustly treated—wo
don’t pretend to decide. But somebody is per-
petually being affronted and snubbed and hustled
in this world; and even on Dr. Tarrant’S own
showing, and presuming every complaint of his
chum or proWge to bo true to the hilt, and not
susceptible of rebuttal, there was nothing so ter-
rible in his friend’s case as to justify the suspension
of the business of Parliament in order that justice
should be done. At worst, Mr. Wise has been rude,
supercilious and disingenuously unfair in his treat-
ment of a particular ship’s surgeon. Supposp that
proved—which, as yet, it isn’t—the Immigration-
Agent does not exist for the benefit of Surgeon-
Superintendents. It would be very desirable that
he and they should harmonise, but not at all desir-
able that they should harmonise too well. The
Immigration-Agent should be the immigrant’s
friend. That’s his business. We would rather see
such an officer affront fifty doctors than one immi-
grant, and we consider that any sensible Minister
or Board would condone an affront to one doctor
providing it should be shown that there had been
geniality to immigrants in general.
The Bulletin New Series.
So far ns we can gather, our efforts to produce
a first-rate and unpreeodently attractive paper
have met with even more appreciation than
we had hoped. Last week, we printed our
usual number—no more, no less. The entire
issue was sold out by two o’clock the
same afternoon, and since then telegrams and
letters have showered in from country and inter-
colonial agents, vainly demanding additional sup-
plies. We could last week easily have disposed o
5000 copies in excess of our regular output.
The difficulties incidental to cutting, covering
and fastening a paper with so huge a circulation as
that which The Bulletin now enjoys are very
considerable, but will, we venture to hope,
be shortly overcome. We are unremittingly
working to attain entire excellence, and shall
not be content until we do. We intend that
The Bulletin shall be, beyond comparison
the nattiest and best printed weekly south of the
Equator. As our readers will have observed, we
have made a good start; but we are not at the goal
yet, and we know we are not, and don’t mean to
sit down and wait for the goal to come to us. Many
complaints having been made that the coloured
pages are too stiff and intractable for convenient
folding of the paper for pocket and post, wo have
succeeded in procuring a more pliable paper of finer
texture and the same tint, which we substitute.
Thus, good as we believe our readers will admit
even the first number of the Bulletin new series
to have been, wo believe that wo are in a position
to promise that the improvements already effected
are but the beginning of a steady and remarkable
progression.
On dit that Mr. De Mestre will sell off all
his stud at the end of the year.
The M.R.C. are about to establish a branch
boat-house on the Parramatta.
Mr. Upward, the Victorian stroke, will
now make way for younger bio od.
Hanlan-Kennedy match, £500 aside, fixed
for May 30, at Rivers Beach, Boston.
£6180 went through the totalisator at Ade-
laide. Dividends on the Leger and Trial Stakes,
£318 and £410.
The Nimrod Club’s last haul of schnapper
numbered 750. Mr. J. Eastway won the £30 prize
with 43 fish.
Mr. II. Gray’s Gossoon won the Coursing
Derby in Melbourne, and has boon purchased by
Mr. M'CuIloch for £300.
Fred Archer reappeared in the saddle, for
the first time since his marriage, at Kempton Park
meeting, and won his race by a head.
Count Kinsky (Hungarian) is the first
foreigner who has ever won the Liverpool Grand
National Steeplechase. He rode, in magnificent
stylo, a horse of his own breeding.
The Adelaide R.C. held their first day’s
racing on Saturday. Attendance very fair; the
course was heavy, owing to the recent rains. Ap-
pended are the results:—Hurdle Race, "1% miles:
Lady Carrington 1, Triplet 3, Lord Clyde 3. Trial
Handicap, -M mile: Transferred J, Borderman 3,
Gymkhana 3. Adelaide St. Leger: Royal Irishman
1, Standard Bearer 3, Prometheus 3. Champagne
Stakes: Hurricane I, Blue Peter 3. Totalisator
Handicap, 1 mile: Transferred 1, Forlorn 3, Tunel-
fleld 3. Steeplechase, 4 miles: Abdallahil, The
Joker 3, Taucum 3.


The Oxford University Football Club have
had a wonderfully successful season. They won
every match played, and scored 38 goals and 36
tries against 1 goal and two tries in one match.
The Belvideres beat the Carlingfords easily
in the match for the Gardiner Cup. Carlingfords
scored 137 and 130; Belvideres, 1st innings, 133; 3nd
innings, 139 for two wickets. Brodie made top
score in the match with 61.
Myers and Solomon, of George-street, have
been appointed agents for the Royal Atlas brand
of fireworks. This brand is supplied to her
Majesty the Queen, and also to the Imperial
Government. They are undoubtedly the best
fireworks in the market.
Three Malay priests have arrived in Bris-
bane charged to see that the bullocks killed for
freezing and conveyance to Batavia for the food of
Mahoramedans are killed in accordance with the
religious scruples of the Malays. There will bo
more poles shoved down bullocks’ throats, pro-
bably.
Colonel M'Murdo and Lord Robert Montagu,
representing English capitalists, propose to the
West Australian G overnmont to construct a railway
from York to Albany—terms being 1000 acres of land
for every mile of railway, ten per cent, of the nett
earnings to go to the colony; twenty immigrants
for every mile of railway to be introduced, and
£30,000 cash to be deposited as guarantee against
delay.
Mason, Savings’ Bank accountant at Bel-
fast, Vic., embezzled £275 in two sums. He was
found out but his friends replaced the money, and
it was urged on his trial that it had been tacitly
agreed that he should not be prosecuted. The jury
acquitted him. The verdicts of Belfast juries have
long been a disgrace to civilisation. The venue is
to be changed to Melbourne, where Mason will bo
tried on another charge.
Mr. Gurney Patmore, who was at one time
editor of the Melbourne Argus, died at Manchester,
on the 24th March last. He was sub-editor of the
Daily News some 30 years ago, and afterwards
editor of the Derby Mercury. It is strange how
these English editors live so long—Mr. Patmore
left Australia 15 years ago. In these present times
a Life Assurance Company require a twice larger
premium from an editor than from an acrobat, and
three times more from a dramatic critic than from
a bushranger. Poets they won’t take at any price.
Last Thursday, Mr. Charles Malcolm,
R.A.M., gave an evening concert to a critical
audience in the Masonic Hall. Selections from
Schumann, Thalberg, Weber, Gottschaik, &c., were
all rendered from memory, and a sketch of Mr.
Malcolm’s own, “The Passing Band,” which pre-
supposes the music of a band of marching men,
approaching, growing, and dying away, was ex-
tremely pretty. A lady amateur and Messrs.
Hallewell and Hermann assisted to fill the pro-
gramme.
The other day, at a Melbourne Presby-
terian Conference, one of the reporters of The
Argus leant over the table and said to a confrere in
a stage whisper: “The majority are against the
resolution.” This remark was overheard by the
Rev. A. Youl, of Carlton, who turned round in a
very excited way and said: “It’s a lie. You belong
to the lying Age, and I suppose you will publish
that to-morrow morning.” This *‘got the Argus
man’s monkey up,” and, putting himself into a
Miller-Foley position, he roared: “Mi-. Youl, bub
for your cloth I’d smack you over the jowl!”
The most important operation performed
lately in S. Australia was the starting of a twenty-
head battery on a real gold-producing reef at the
Bird-in-Hand claim, the other day. Yet the Go-
vernor didn’t put in an appearance, neither did
the Ministry; neither did anybody but comparative
nobodies—the exception being a solitary M.P.—
Newland—and he only a very little one. With the
Northern areas played out, the banks charging ex-
orbitant interest and entirely masters of the situa-
tion, enterprise paralysed, and local manufactures
and commerce almost at a standstill, the inaugura-
tion of an absolutely new and most promising
industry should have been a matter of national
concern. However, stampers tell no lies in the
long run. When their story is published, a rush
may follow. Or it may not.
Biggar applied for a new trial of his
breach of promise case, but the Judges refused.
One of them said that “ Mr. Biggar’s letters, in
which he addressed the plaintiff as ‘ My dear
Fanny,’ his kissing her in the presence of her aunt,
his praying at church for the removal of the ob-
stacles to his marriage, all pointed to the existence
of an engagement, unless ho was prepared to come
into the box and swear ho had been guilty of con-
duct towards a young lady, against whom ho made
no accusation except that she asked him to marry
her instead of his asking her to marry him, un-
worthy of a gentleman, a man of respectability
or even an honest man.’ ” This is all very line
If a man can’t write platonically “ My dear Fanny ”
how is he to begin ? We diligently study all these
things. For example, we studied Dr. Neild’s
platonic letters to Mrs. Hill, and the doctor, you
know, did it in French. In future, no “Dear
Fanny,” or “Dear Juila” for us. We stick to our
native Patagonian, and we won’t kiss her in the
presence ofner aunt.
The righteous are promised eternal bliss.
The wicked, eternal blister.
Old Gulf hand soliloquises on the advent of
civilization : “ It’s time for a man to leave this
darned country when there are clothes-lines
knocking around.”
STANICH, Aunst (by appointment) to
His Excellency the G overnor of New South Wales,
may bo consulted on the Eye, Ear, and Throat
Diseases, at 50 WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Nellie Palmer, of Woman’s Rights cele-
brity, is lecturing- on “ Hell and its Tortures.”
The reason Nellie’s lecture is “for single men
only is that she thinks Gehenna and its side-shows
are scarcely novel enough for any man who ever
x - an in double harness.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
r -mos ” in the World, is somewhat hard
“ K nr Henson, the new Archbishop of Cantor-
upon nr. : _“As a pulpit orator, you are
bury. mediocrity. Your sermon on Palm
scarcely m arked your dihut before the lino
Sundaj,'y . m y OU will henceforth rank as a
peoP 1 ®^* 1 was a failure. Mr. Gladstone’s face
P® occasion was an interesting study. He
upon the o. and con expression# for the first
listened 11 b u t could keep his attention on the
few mmutf°< 1 d he then composed himself to
0 K’ber.” The sane writer cheerfully
KTlLraiscopal type of countenance, thus:—
Snhvsffiomyisof the episcopal type, and
considerable strength of character, traversed
s u ,,,h a he bv a certain vein of commonplace, anc
bv°no means conspicuous for refinement *’
’ \ tablet having been erected in St. Giles
Cathedral, Edinburgh, in memory of Dean
Hannay, the clergyman at whose head Jenny
ctra thing her stool, when he began to read the
IptSalcLrch Service, with the remark “ Wad
SPnraach the mass m my lug (ear)?” it is now
•narrated that a companion tablet be erected to
nliinv St Giles’is at present occupied as a Presby
Si Church. All Presbyterian children are
, “ht to admire Jenny Geddes, and that it was
the rightthing to throw stools at Church of Eng
>,d clergymen. Times have little changed. The
if',. M r Osborne (Wesleyan) came very neai
huing the benches heaved at him the other
sondav because he substituted Christian charity
for the’ordinary gospel of brotherly hatred in his
discourse We like Christian clergymen, and arc
not particular what Church they hail from.
Whenever you see it written that a man
who was mean in his life-time “left £10,000 tc
various charities,’’put it in this way : “When ho
was an infant, the nurse frightened him by threat-
ening a visit of the ‘ bogey-man.’ As the ‘ bogey-
man 7 never came, and the child waxed incredulous
his parents handed him- over to the priest, who
talked about a new bogey-man, the devil, who
they said, might, after he had died, roast him for
unnumbered ages. The boy believed; but when
be had grown up and become an educate!
man, he laughed at the idea of the mercifu
all-powerful Saviour of men emulating and
surpassing the deeds of a Torquemada. So
he dismissed the devil as he had dismissed
the bogey-man. But when his liver became
congested, and he was about to die, those creations
of the designing professors of superstition came
with their makers and grinned at him horribly
and so ‘ ho left £10,000 to the charities.’ ” '
The Salvation Army, if we are to believe
“Dagonet” in the Referee, is not flourishing in
London. It being now generally known that the
Earl of Shaftesbury has denounced the “ Salvation
loan a monetary movement, which would soem
to ensure to subscribers, those who deposit their
money with General Booth (it is no more good
putting his name between inverted commas
there is no satire now in it !)—5 per cent, on earth
and salvation after the episode of the cherry-case
Hut, if wo are to credit what Mr. Sims tells us
“the funds are failing.” Of course, we don’t caro
a rap for the salvation crowd at home; but we
have (it is our weakness) a kind of affection for
our own mob. Our Harmy i has many points in its
favour—the chief one being for a distinct determi-
nation to make the utmost noise which can be
compassed by five human btings. If it didn’t make
so much noise, we think our Harmy would gather
in more money. But it will not modulate its
tones ; so Rev. Mrs. Sutherland and tho Capting
cannot vet afford horse-radish with their beef in
.Nithsdole-street. Many people say-how long will
the Harmy last ? We should say until the drum is
busted by a brick, or until some philanthropicai
person has killed the Lieutenant. We think avo
could promise (though avo are peaceably disposed
persons) that if any one can be found to slaughter
the Lieutenant, avo can bo safely relied on to pole-
axe the Capting.
The Sabbath-breaking controversy is burst-
ing out afresh. We hardly knoAv, Avhen it comes
to the point, Avhich side is the more bigoted. We
ar ®> °t course, speaking of the extremists of both
parties. According to one lot, you must not
wmstle on a Sunday, or look at a picture, or read
a protane book, or in fact do anything but pray
and pay—pay especially. According to the other,
'ou can shoot your grandmother on that day, as
as you put money into somebody’s pocket,
ion t be gulled out of your small change by the
clergy, says the Freethinker, “ but come and pay
I] ? e !” Of the tAvo, by thunder, avc think
h^lV ust 88 soon be deceived in the old fashion
hi- ta , . r . m er, as undeceived into a neAv deception
nppionif' t J er L J 0r ’ look y° u > it has been our ex-
to find out that most men become Free-
ra^ efore tbey can ' think at all. And if
n * were the established religion or irre-
imp w morrow ’ we should have in a week’s
W|J t 83 expensive, and perhaps a more
a*(™™ hle^ r P,? y than w e have noAv. Such
inpn!m™° things is inevitable as long as
sides us be fair and consider both
or twnl™ e 8bield - Which reminds us that a day
intoWifn,?n We ca, , ne ncross an example of ignorant
rather^Fpppa 0 ” , tbe p . art ot the Freethinkers, or
of thp nnwi drlnk ® rs ’ ln the columns of the organ
Temt)ornnon C rv S , ln , y ielbourne. It seems that a
lc , k °t Club went out somewhere in
beintr b lay a cricket match, and Sunday
the plane day left th ™ to see tho sights of
selvc4 vn:-v E-, nui - de us ,p o? it and enjoyed them-
tho represpnon lly ln * 1 fruit-garden. Whereupon
“ Whtm^pv^i’ 6 of f.he rum interest remarks
feel inpiinpH .those shameless Sabbath-breakers
likes his Ji.Vll, cen sure the working man Avho
reaUl the l- n 1 °nnl r^ lg ' ht ale on a Sunday, let them
whether sDPna?n Pi din f s f# bavry’s Reef, and ask
the ciiuiitrt i the Lord s Day in roaming about
tulpable than S1^“ tr8eemg '. ls not ten times more
Purl >ur of Gni nnP rik a £ lass °t beer in the snug
more culmhill'Jf, i nn ‘ , Gt course! It is ten times
country ana nl^ Spe i ld an tnexpensive day in tho
drink vou Uif EF°/i h 5 me , on your foet ' than to
of mine inn” dlamk m ‘ the snug parlour
have clothed } ho money Avhich should
1| ecause hV ,tn^ d !? d your wife and children,
the PubUtLffs iatter you put it into
wife unil chjM 8 n and * hey are not liis
Paper wehnm w i K) , I)? 80 - but, of course, tho
who can drink m <1UOt ,P d fl ' om only refers to men
there is lrii(iiPV nod . e i*’ a t °m Moder-damnation!
I 1 "' let yoTalt Publican of them all avIio avIII
long as you w.! y o.n’’ so 1 t as drunk as Noah, so
from ffmet and don’t prevent others
what;is goinv on o d T\ lw unfriendly attention upon
f‘l l>ye,whf n “, the - sm * 8 Parlour.” And, by
drunkard’s f . ™ a i‘£ in gaol, or In the gutter, or a
orbed himself™ li bat same pubhean who en-
h«'ls, will vprv^i th ? mon . ey of you and similar
b, m religions rS. e y retire from business and
closing, and rh'p ™ hen he will vote for Sunday
as far m h« b m man may 8 ’° to blft ze8 for his
no longer he I 11 ca re, because the poor man
J h, "igh God shnuiH P rofl t to him. The old story.
?™!' n g men tn-i’, com , e , d °wn once more to live
an d the gospef o e f fitb° UlCi continue to be thelaAv
z |P has b LmtPr parson Christchurch
Dila„ L i an . a otion for libel against
Kitted to sS; only £1500 £jr,,000 already
f, roe nox t V( .., d : y m subscriptions during the
111' ■•■•Arel?ginn« pri ie Congregational Jubilee
editor objects to tho “ Indian
updating upon cases on a Sunday.
At th • *
l hr ’ jury 6 trial, two or three of
Pwaes address a ra d +u° havo been asleep during
jfrom, *0 them. This is carrying the
w,.- byhes, Avho e ,„ bh ° uld hlind,” a little too far..
Dykes f take tQ i be identical Avith tho
in r most Avuiijt formerly of Melbourne, and
has soswi Presbyterian minister
Eonrtp 10 ? C» ed t, 1 ?® rlgl'Hy orthodox by
very b ko Freethought A
his past HO, miy ofiioor, in publicly enta-
alonl ' tIipu .. (i pfi telling all about a big
in t^d? Uelu inh ml■ i l VP 8rabbed him. “ Como
»hnk 1 ’ ■ The pJ ’, J thought you had a hand
emulsion from Genova of the
iliss wa Ulsts was tho work of but
f or faU booth Avas turned out of the
a Salvation ” g mg e U ti^g Uut±or a c °b ec tion made
Our Fighting Editor’s Half-Holiday.
Our Fighting Editor has been rather overworked
of late; and last week having been an unusually
busy one, it is no wonder that when Saturday noon
came he drew his Avell-earned salary, and left the
office, resolving to carry out a long-cherished pur-
Eose of seeing our beautiful harbour, of which he
ad occasionally heard during his long and busy
career.
A few minutes’ walk brought him to the zephyr-
kissed region of Fort Macquarie, and flinging Ins
wearied and overtaxed frame upon the sward, he
filled and lighted his clay pipe; and then, with the
azure sky and a half-crown umbrella over his
touzled head, began to realize the delights of dulce
far nientt.
tastefully framed in by the erratic limbs of a bandy-
legged fisherman, in whom our Fighting Editor
recognised a rising young poet who has been a
constant contributor to our waste-paper fund, but
who, by the stratagem of sending in his effusions
by mail, had thus far eluded the destroyer. True
to the instincts of his calling, our Fighting Editor’s
hand mechanically strayed to the region of his
coat-tail pockets in quest of a dynamite bomb,
when he suddenly recollected himself. “ Stay,” he
exclaimed, “am I not out for a holiday ? Let me
sink the shop. The poet shall live!” So the paren-
thetical poet went on living and fishing, and our
Fighting Editor watched
with a languid interest; but he caught no fish,
because all the bait he had wsis his North Shore
boarding-house breakfast, of which he had denied
himself that morning in anticipation of the day’s
sport.
“ A re you not afraid of catching the rheumatics ?”
asked a tall, spare, mild-looking gentleman, who
beamed benevolently down upon our Fighting
Editor through a pair of gold-rimmed spectacles.
“Are you not afraid of catching a thrashing for
meddling with what does not concern you ?”
retorted our Fighting Editor: “ You evidently
are unaware of the nature of him whom you ad-
dress. Know, then, that I am the lighting editor
of The Bulletin, out for a half holiday; but if
thou wilt call at my ollice during business hours
any other day in the week, by my halidame I swear
I will tear thy lank form to shreds, and fling it to
the office panther!” The mildly benevolent gen-
tleman made no harsh reply; ho merely
our Fighting: Editors umbrella, and the balmy
K Vafted # gently away, and dropped it
mto the bosom ot our beautiful harbour, leaving
nothing but the ribs to shield his fevered brow
from the scorching rays of the almost tropical
sun.
“You are a high-kicker, I perceive,” calmly re-
marked our Fighting Editor, taking out of his
pocket the undertaker’s weekly bill, and making a
shorthand note of the above slight occurrence
upon the back of it.
“ I am a high-kicker, young man; I am the Rev.
Bloodfood Balderdash, from Woolloomooloo. I
preach the gospel twice a day on Sundays, and dis-
tribute tracts all the week except Saturday after-
noons, when I take a half-holiday and fight by way
of recreation.”
“In other words, like myself, you sink the shop,”
said our Fighting Editor, extending his hand.
“ That is about the size of it,” assented the Rev.
Mr. Balderdash, hitting our Fighting Editor’s inge-
nuously extended palm a smart whack with his
cane. On any other day of the week, and in the
regular routine of business, this had been mere
trilling with fate on the part of the Rev. Mr.
Balderdash; but, as our Fighting Editor was out
for a holiday, ho was determined, come what
might, to sink the shop and not fight. Fight? No.
Not even when the Reverend Mr. Balderdash de-
liberately trod upon his corns and knocked his clay
pipe out of his mouth, and
and poked him in the stomach with his
cane, and taxed him with writing the leaders
of the S.M. Herald. No. Not even at this
crowning insult did our Fighting Editor lose
his equaminity of temper or bring out the shop.
At last the Rev. Mr. Balderdash was obliged to
give It up, and stood before our Fighting Editor
the baffled, panting, perspiring, perplexed parson
from Wooloomooloo that he was. “ I fear,” said
he, “that I shall have to look elsewhere for recre-
ation, as I do not seem to be able to provoke you
to wrath. I wish you a very good afternoon. —
Oh, by the bye,” he said, suddenly turning back,
and, throwing off his coat, he rolled up his sleeves,
and placed himself into a pugilistic attitude of
defence; “what do you think of our beautiful
harbour?” It was then, and not till then, that our
Fighting Editor arose in his might, like a tiger
roused from his lair—or, rather, like a tiger out for
a holiday, but who had brought his lair with him—
and, with that terrifying roar which is never heard
by his victims but once, he threw himself upon his
tormentor and bore him to the ground. Then,
taking from his pocket a shark-hook, he baited it
with the Rev. Bloodgood Balderdash from Wool-
loomooloo, and dreamily sat fishing with his legs
dangling off the quay until the sun wont down.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“Crabbe”: Very doubtful, They don’t
pay their own liabilities, as we have reason to
know — “ A.J.F.” ; Good story. Write often
Not such a Pool”: The nearest thing you can do
to writing English is drinking “English”... .
Bega : Yes: but, then, even the savage, whose
only idea ot civilisation is a shingle tied round his
waist and a bit of fish-spine poked through his
nose, never starts off even on the most trilling
expedition without invoking some deity or other.
.... A.A.”: If a wife refuses to live wherever her
husband chooses to live, she forfeits her claim to
maintenance. But she would not forfeit her right
to support should she refuse to travel on a well-
proved plea of illness—“ Stultissimus ” : Yes;
when there are as many millions of people in Aus-
tralia as there now are hundreds of thousands.
Harper has a constituency of over fifty millions
of peqple..“L.G.”: Good verse, indeed; but modesty
forbids ...“J. F,: Thanks..“J.J.8.: (1.) The Mel-
bourne Age, with a circulation of 50,000. (2.)
About 23,000. ... “ J.E.L.”: We want more
J.A.C. ; Will try and find it for you “Mel-
rose ’ : Doggy doggerel... “ H.M.” (Charters
Towers): Will tell Orton....“A.T.”; To hand.
Write again....“ Tibooburra ”: Send along
often— ‘A.B.”: Good. Next week “T.F.”
(N.Q.) : To hand—will duly appear “ J.P.”:
Will read and consider “ James Wil-
loughby Try Graveur, bookseller, Gcorge-
street—“ Araluen ” : No ; but the Aus-
tralasian stated that Sir Hercules Robinson
would succeed Lord Normanby as Governor of
Victoria...." Woman”: The term “masher” is a
word of gipsy origin from mastava, meaning fas-
cination by the eye — “ L.L.”: Split shingles; don’t
write verse — “T.J.": He was one of the leading
solicitors of his time, and died overwhelmingly
insolvent. Embezzled largo sums of trust money.
— ‘ J.S.”: Eight unqualified quncKs—each of
them an unprincipled scoundrel. Three ot them
have been tried for their lives, to our own per-
sonal knowledge; two of them have served sen-
tences in Australia; several of them have been
fined over and over again. No decent newspaper
would print their advertisements “Marlin-
spike”: Yes, do—“A.H.T.”: Very few people
can write a clever biblical parody. You’re not one
of them—“R.A.V.”: Your item for social reached
too late last week. Please send any similar notices
early as possible.... “ P.F.M'G.” (Gymple): We took
what we consider a fair stand in regard to
Redmond; but your verses are seventeen times
too rabid for us— “ R. Fraser ”: Yes, we burned
your poetry as you expected. Please use common
paper; cream laid note burns very badly
‘ J.S.J.”: The richest handicap in the world is the
Manchester Cup—3000 sovs. added “H.A.R.”:
The case appears a most extraordinary one; will go
through it carofuily.
There, sure enough, spread out before his enrap-
tured hut blood-shot vision was
OUR BEAUTIFUL HARBOUR,
HIS MOVEMENTS
KICKED THE COYER OFF
JAMMED HIS NEW HAT DOWN OVER
HIS EYES,
Alas! sighed our Fighting Editor, as he
climbed wearily into an omnibus with a large
shark under his arm: “ alas! I shall never bo able
to entirely rid myself of the shop, but this time I
have at least succeeded in mingling pleasure with
business.”


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Sir John O’Shanassy’s death is now said to
be traceable to “ Anti-fat ” (the basis of which, we
are told, is iodide of potassium), with the aid of
which ho wasted live stone in a very short time,
but broke down his robust constitution.
An attorney brought to Mr. Salomons,
Q.C., marked “!10” guineas, a brief which in the
eminent counsel’s opinion was worth fifty. “ How
badly you do form your figures,” remarked the
great little barrister, altering the “3 ” into a “5.”
Mi-. Justice North, who sentenced Mr.
Foote, the editor of Freethouoht, to twelve
months’ imprisonment, under the Blasphemy laws,
is the same judge who sentenced to three months a
man who caused the death of a coffee-stall keeper
by kicking him in the face. The kicker had been
several times convicted of violent assaults.
The most interesting woman in South
Australia just now naturally enough, is Mrs. Morier.
Sue had £400 a year in her own right. Hence these
tears -for, the girl being always a nympho-dipso-
maniac, her father said, “the doctor can have
Susan if he likes to take the responsibility, but she
is not fit to be any decent man’s wife.” The doctor
took Susan and the yearly stipend, and has found it
a particularly bad investment.
Until very recently the godmother of
Dunn, the bushranger, executed in Sydney some
years ago, tended his grave in Devonshire-street
cemetery with reverential tenderness. Had Mr.
Dunn had the same care a little earlier he might
now be a good young man—trading off vicious
buckjumpers for tame horses in some back-blocks
town, or swapping old bullocks by moonlight for
rattling young steers. Dunn’s tombstone says:
“ Leave his sins to his Saviour.”
Old Philip Thorley, of Mount Thorley,
Singleton, has just died. He was born in this
colony in 1799, and so had reached the age of 84. A
local paper says he was the oldest living native,
but we do not think this can be true. By the way,
old Sullivan, who was born in 1778, and came to
N. S. W. in 1800, fifteen years before the battle of
Waterloo—even then he was 24 years of age—is, we
believe, still alive, somewhere or other in the
colony. It so, he is now 107 years of age, and
undoubtedly the “daddy” of Australasia. We
know he was alive six months ago.
The other day, at Bega, 110 blankets were
distributed to the local aboriginals. Mr. Howitt,
P.M. of Sale (Victoria), was present, procuring in-
formation for his forthcoming great ethnographi-
cal work. Before the public corroboree, some
rites and ceremonies wore to be conducted in the
strict privacy of a far-away gully, where Mr.
Howitt was to bo the sole European privileged to
witness the observances. Mr. Howitt is a son of
Mary Howitt, the poetess, and William Howitt,
author of “The Haunts and Homes of British
Poets.” and “ The History of the Supernatural.”
John Brown seems to have been the friend
of Cabinet ministers, the patron of the peerage,
and the terror of the Palace. He was permitted
the run of all the choicest cellars, used to entertain
the Royal guests in a princely manner, and would
converse affably with the Queen and the Princess
Beatrice from the rumble. A paragraph before us
states that he died worth the splendid fortune of
£1,000,000, which splendid statement is probably a
splendid lie. Ease and whisky killed him a ce que
Von dit. Well, ease won’t kill us, anyhow; though
we won’t answer for the whisky should the rain
continue.
A Melbourne journalist, Mr. Hamilton
Mackinnon, wrote in the Victorian Review a
sketch of the new Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr.
Benson, under whom he had studied at college,
and sent a copy of the Review to the most
reverend gentleman. By return of post, he re-
ceived from his old tutor, whom he had not seen
for twenty years, the following unpretentious,
friendly letter, written in a moment snatched from
overwhelming work “ Dear Mackinnon,—One
word from my own pen to thank you, and God
bless you ever. Oh ! for the fine old days of col-
lege I—Yours most sincerely, E.W.B.”
Mr. E. G. Pitzgibbon, town clerk of Mel-
bourne, is to have his screw increased by a couple
of hundreds a year. Thus does the corporation
paint the lily—we mean grease the pig. Fitz is
married to a daughter of Mickey Dawson, a well-
known deceased old colonist, and got a large for-
tune with his wife. When his mother-in-law dies,
and leaves him a lot more money, the corporation
will have to make him equal to a Minister of the
Crown, and give him £1500. Fitz. is a good officer,
but a man who pays £1800 for a house to live in
should not be a servant to anybody. Were Fitz.
not already a rich man, and able to give aldermen
good dinners, his screw would still be £600.
Tennyson in the last Nineteenth Cen-
tury :—
“ Frater Ave, Atqub Vale.”
“ Row us out from Desenzano, to your Sirmione
row!
So they row’d, and there we landed—* 0 ve7iusta
Sirmio!’
There to me thro’ all the groves of olive in the
summer glow.
Came that ‘Ave atque vale’ of the poet’s hope-
less woe,
Tenderest of Roman poets, nineteen hundred
years ago;
* Frater, Ave atque Vale ’—as we wandered to and
fro,
Gazing at the Lydian laughter of the Garda-lako
below
Sweet Catullus’ all-but-island, olive-silvery Slr-
mlol
Dante Gabriel Rossetti’s alleged illegiti-
macy has been promptly denied by his mother and
sisters. As already stated, Rossetti died from the
protracted use of chloral-hydrate. Two years
prior to his death, his passion for the drug and its
effects up to date were partially conquered by his
scientific friends, but to have succeeded altogether,
some one with influence over him would have had
to live with and devote his life to the redemption
of the poet. In Rossetti’s case, as, it is believed, in
all others, the remarkable fact came out that
chloral, while producing melancholy and morbid
suspiciousness of all kinds, leaves the executive
functions untouched.
Judah Benjamin, Q,C,, the great Jewish
barrister, who, according to a cable message, will
probably accept an English judgeship, has a re-
markable history. He bewail life as an American
subject, and became famous as an advocate at New
Orleans. He was next heard of as Secretary for
War in the brilliant but unfortunate Confederacy,
being - regarded as only second in every way to iho
celebrated President Jefferson Davis. At fifty,
the collapse of the Confederacy sent him a ruined
man, with a price upon his head, to London. Being
of indomitable courage, and having a very little
money, he took up the study of English law,
brought out a text-book, which at once became
famous, was admitted to the Bar, and soon became
one of the loading barristers and law-writers of
England.
Mr. Nicholas, the pretty scented twenty-
six-year-old Melbourne bank clerk, whom the rich
forty-eight-year-old Mrs. Johnson the other day
took unto her bosom, is now engaged in a law suit
with Mrs. Johnson’s children, who want to take
the management of their father’s estate out of the
hands of the interesting couple. It was rather
rough on young Nicholas, who does Collins-street
sitting behind gold-mounted flunkeys, to have to
swear in Court the other day what (if his well-
matured bride is a woman of the world) is no doubt
perfectly true—that he hadn’t got a shilling in the
world, nor had he any claim whatsoever on all the
grandeur around him. In Melbourne they ask how
often the young man is let out every week and
how many shillings he gets for pocket-money.
However, wo needn’t travel out of Sydney for
other cases of the same kind.
Thadeus O’Kane was hit hard at last
Charters Towers Circuit Court. Buckland, who is
an assayer, butcher, soap-maker, miner, managing
director, and a lot of other things, sued for £2000
for libel, and got a £400 verdict; John Cooper, a
mining manager, got a £100 verdict. It is proposed
to run the Northern Miner by a company, as a
daily paper. In regard to this matter, the game
old Thadeus says that “the Miner is not yet
pounded and pulverised into puddle-stuff and
mullock. We mean to struggle against powers
infernal and powers supernal. In future we shall
go only for the whales and leviathans of the poli-
tical whirlpool; we shall give up snake-killing,
rat-catching, and mosquito-squelching jrom this
day.” Thadeus further observes that “he will
work himself into the cemetery rather than be
beaten by his enemies.” By the way, we have
received from an admirer of Thadeus £1 to start a
supscription for him in his present troubles. Any-
one wishing to add to the fund can address The
Editor, Bulletin.
The office of Aaron Waxman, one of the
Melbourne usurers by whom young Petty was so
cleanly shorn, is in Swanston-street, near the
Public Library ; his private house is a somewhat
goi'goous mansion facing the Fitzroy Gardens.
Aaron’s influence among Victorian professional
politicians is very extensive, and every Sunday he
gives—anyhow lie used to give—a social evening,
to which hois always anxious to have literary men.
There is no trouble, as may well be imagined, in
procuring the attendance of Members of Parlia-
ment. Out of this Sunday hospitality a good joke
arose. When poor old Marcus Clarke was deep in
Waxman's books, he used to comegroaningly over
from South Yarra, and attend these receptions.
Well, one day he got a note from Aaron at the
Public Library, demanding his presence at the
office. Marcus went over in due course, and
Aaron said : “ Veil, I have not heard from you
Marcoos ; and here is de Oder blllsh overdue. And
dis is the way you dreat me ven I invite you to my
house ! ” “And didn’t I come ! ” was the Indignant
reply.
Corbett, who came out here to (literally)
“ write up the English cricketers," has been sneak-
ingly impudent in the English Press with regard
to Australians. He was most generously treated
wherever he went—just as is every stranger who is
ostensibly a gentleman. He says in one of his
letters that if you want to insult a man in the
colonies, “ you have only to call him Trickett.”
This is a first-class lie. Ned Trickett’s reputation
is clean, even though he is down in his luckaquati-
cally speaking. Here’s a line for the editor of
the Pink ’Un: Whenever in the colonies you see
a fellow with a huge skinful (of beef), you merely
remark to yourself in a low whisper: “Hallo, he's
been Corbetting again!” He used to eat more than
all the team put together, and it is alleged that one
day a Sydney suburban gentleman, who had in-
vited the Eleven to a garden-party, remarked
apropos of somebody: “ Well, I asked the team, but
I really didn’t ask a teamster.”
The Tiohborne Claimant is very unfortun-
ate in his friends. How can Mr. Daniel Smith take
Cresswell home if he (Daniel) couldn’t find £10 to
take himself out of gaol ? Of course, Daniel says
he went to gaol “not out of poverty but out of
principle;” but then, the other day, he sued Joe
Eckford, M.L.A. for the Wollombl, for £41 ts. lid.,
and it came out that the sum claimed was half the
amount of the frugal draft sent from England “ to
defray expenses in connection with the mission
here of plaintiff and Charles Orton.” Mr. Eckford
put in a set-off of £105 13s. 6d., and otherwise as
Charles Orton, who is now “deadcuts” with Smith
wouldn’t consent to be a co-plaintlff in the matter.
Smith was non-suited. By the way, we have seen
Cresswell in Parramatta Asylum. He is a dense-
looking man of the bushman type, of about 55 years
(or more), and has a sandy-grey beard. On the
occasion upon which we visited him, we asked him
(it is a good while since) if he was Arthur Orton;
when he replied (it is his answer verbatim ): “ Orton
be ; I’m Cresswell.” We believe that Govern-
ment will do its utmost to prevent Cresswell being
taken to England, especially as Cresswell’s career,
as Cresswell, can be traced step by step ever since
his arrival in the colony.
There are several senile curiosities of high
position in South Australia. Perhaps some folks
are envious, and have no real business to feel
intensely amused because Jerry at 63 has thought
well to marry a demoiselle of 19. And the damsel
is handsome, and has money. That affair is, per-
haps, after all, but a lususnaturev, and by no means
so remarkable a performance as that of Mr. Ex-
Commissioner George Hamilton. Strutt, a person
with brushes in London, has painted a “ wild, weird
thing ” and called it “ Black Thursday,” and, being
somewhat extravagant in his ideas, valued his
creation at, it is said, £300. An enterprising danc-
ing-master, one Wevill, bought the picture, paid
freight thereon, and exhibited it in Adelaide.
After obtaining certain insane newspaper notices,
Mr. Wivell proclaimed “Black Thursday” to be a
groat work of art. Poor old Hamilton believed the
statement, and became the owner of “ Black Thurs-
day,” after passing in his cheques to the tune, it is
said, of £2000. Not content with this, however,
Mr, Hamilton has actually lent “ Black Thursday”
to that long-suffering institution, the local National
Gallery.
Phil. M‘Carroll, of Sydney, poet and
butcher, who put cheap beef into the mouths of
millions, and thousands into his own pockets, who
broke the ring of carcase butchers and then broke
himself, appeal's to have left his affairs slightly
muddled. His wife, Anastasia, and his married
daughter, Mrs. Mary Brennan, are both applying
for letters of administration in his estate. For
years poor old Phil’s poetry was the best thing in
the Evening News, and, as it was generally
directed against Sir ’Bury, every fellow who could
drive a poetic quill would contribute to Phil’s
columns, for Phil, wrote very little, if Indeed
he evvr wrote any, of the doggerell. Which
shows how easily some bards build up big
reputations. Phil, controlled the retail meat
market, and for years kept prices down. At
last ho “ went broke,” and got to so low an ebb
that he actually offered his services as stable hand
to a George-street business man, who, however,
declined to engage him in that capacity. Phil, got
another start, and opened an establishment near
the University, rapidly made headway and put
money together. At the very first chance he
squared up with his creditors, his payments in some
Instances being very heavy. No one knew how
many poor families he befriended. He deserves a
rest. He “ went out ” a phenomenal poet—owing
no one a penny.
Cetewayo, in an interview with a press
writer, admitted that, on rising to the control of
his State, he ordered the slaughter in cold blood of
five hundred girls of “ bad repute.” Cetewayo re-
torted, however, by asking whether, at no distant
date, in England, sneepstealing was not punished
by death. And he asked whether it was expected
Zulus could be kept in order with milder laws than
were necessary for Englishmen. Here is theintei'-
viewer’s description ot the King: “ He was attired
in a threadbare suit of blue flannel, well fitted to
exhibit a physical development any man might
envy. His shirt collar seemed to have been several
days absent from the laundry, and one end had
broken loose from its button. It was hard to con-
ceive that this was the modern Attila who was
once the terror of both races through South
Africa. Could this be the King who, when the
superioi'ity of civilised weapons was first made
clear to him, gave his chief officer till the grass
should grow knee-high, to arm his troops with
muskets, on pain of death or banishment? This
the man who, when a missionary preached hell-lire
to him, laughed to scorn the idea of a fire which
his soldiers could not quench, and made good his
words by setting lire to a field of dry grass and
sending a regiment into it, who stamped it out
with their naked feet? One could hardly have
believed it.” Cetewayo stated to the interviewer
that neither he nor his people had any religious
belief or religious superstitions, and that their
funeral services had no significance whatever.
Louise Michel, the Parisian Socialist and
agitatress, is a woman of note. Her name crops up
continually coupled with the idea of Bogie. One
never hears anything specific respecting her mode
of life, or anything in detail respecting her political
principles. But we all know that she is a woman
and spouts on platforms, mostly treason and com-
munism, and one concludes naturally that she is
an improper person, and —every way horrid. Louise
has quite recently been “ run in ” and sentenced to
imprisonment—Louise has been “in prisons oft”
(regular gaol-bird) like St. Paul—and, amid the
foreign intelligence of the London papers, we find
information that Louse is allowed every privilege
by the prison authorities at St. Lazare except that
of receiving visitors. Her meals are provided
according to her taste, and are paid for by M.
Henri Rochefort. Her aged mother, to whom she
is devotedly attached, and who is a woman of strong
religious sentiments, does not know she is in prison.
The Sisters of Charity who have charge of the
female prisoners declare that the influence of
Louise Michel upon her fellow-prisoners is so good
that they allow her to associate freely with them.
“ The charitable instincts of this humane woman
are so strong that she gives away the best part of
the meal sent in to her.” The trick of being charit-
able at other people’s expense is not new, and does
not by any means command our admiration.
Rochefort pays; Louise dispenses. The virtue of
the act all depends upon whether she lets Roche-
fort in for more dinner than is fair, or whether
from an ordinary meal she deprives herself of some
that she would like to eat. In this matter the
merit of Louise is proportionate to her unsatisfied
hunger.
Here is a story of a recent swell marriage.
The gay bridegroom was a fortune-hunter, whose
engagement to a nobleman’s daughter had been
broken off when it was found that there was on
neither side any coin. However, when he became
the accepted or his present bride, he ‘struck it” in
earnest. Then a mean and bitter political oppo-
nent warned her golden papa, and the gay
one had to steer most carefully through his sea
of thickening troubles. Questioned about his
relatives, he denied the richest of them all, for the
golden papa had in early days been rouseabout on
the rich one’s station, and the heiress-daughter
eke a domestic unto him, and a digging up of these
painful m mories would have been excessively
annoying, as the father and the daughter are now
of, the Mite —elity. Questioned as to his love, he
needed to gild his defence with all the tinsel of
forensic eloquence at command before he could
prevail. But he got through at last, and the match
was just nothing but one solid mass of icldt. But
ah I What a tangled web we weave when first we
practise to deceive. Right in the mid-honeymoon
those confounded relatives obtruded themselves,
and though he repudiated wholesale people who
knew him as well as their own watch-dials, things
were so sultry that the gay (and now rich) Benedict
made his exit from the hotel a few hours after-
wards, and took steamer away. But e’en to the
place whence he came and where he settled down
the story had gone before him, and disagreeable
people persist in repeating it, and if “ a virtuous
woman is a crown to her husband,” all that can be
said is very “ uneasy lies the head that wears the
crown” in this particular instance.
One of the Fenians rescued from Western
Australian in 1876 has, we notice, turned up at the
Chicago Irish Convention. Collins, the man who
got them away, was a tall, slight Irishman, of gen-
tlemanly appearance, with an American twang.
Up to the very last, who he was and what was the
object of his visit to Western Australia was a
mystery. Always quiet, though sociable, he came
and went between Perth and Freemantle, and
matured his perilous plans, without ever evoking
suspicion even in a colony that literally swarms
with not only police but military pensioned
guards. His head-quarters were the hotel of one
Pat Moloney, who was known to have rather tro-
pical Irish leanings. Collins played his part to
perfection, though a keen South Australian bag-
man once shocked the many friends of the “ inde-
pendent gentleman who was merely travelling for
pleasure ’ by asserting that he was “ a special de-
tective, If nothing worse.” The morning on which
Collins and his mates ran the gauntlet a regatta took
place on Melville Water, Perth. Collins had arranged
with a lot of jovial Freemantle friends to attend
this regatta. He and they “made a night of it
and Moloney’s “Emerald Isle” hotel, literally
flowed with champagne. It was noticeable that
while Collins “ parted” like a Prince, he drank but
little himself. On the morning of the regatta, It
was ten by the clock before the roysterers were
up, and Collins, on their starting for Perth, was
non est inventus. They were, of course, surprised,
but were a little more so later in the day when the
secret leaked out. Collins was only an alias —
Stevens being the rescuer’s right “ monniker,” He
subsequently, received a great ovation at New
York. West Australia, by the way, has a good
share of exiles and Fenians still land-locked there.
And now we see that Mr. Stevens alias Collins, Is in
full bloom at Chicago.
A king among men, who can look with
scorn on the beggarly titles that are bought by
wealth, is James Nasmyth, of the steam-hammer,
the mention of which reminds us that at Mort’s
Engineering Works is now being landed the biggest
steam-hammer in Australia. For four generations
the Nasmyths had been the leading builders in
Edinburgh, and James followed in his father’s
steps, but went further. He never made brilliant
progress with schoolbooks, but in the foundries
and workshops, to which he stole in spare moments,
he studied with all his soul. A clever mechanician
at 19, he went to London under the great Maudsley,
whoso manufactures were then what he called
“ the climax; of all that was excellent in mechanical
workmanship.” The young Scotchman was no
kid-gloved apprentice, and though getting at first
but ten shillings a week, went straight to the top
of the tree. New and ingenious mechanical de-
signs constantly issued from his busy brain, and
none knew better how to practically give them
form and force. In the evening of life, ho has now
retired to well-earned rest |in a pretty cottage in
Kent; but his last work is perhaps the most unique
of all he has produced. It is his own biography,
which Dr. Smiles (Self-help), who edits it, per-
suaded him to publish in his lifetime, instead of
posthumously. The curious feature of the book
is its manysidedness. Scarcely a science or art that
is not enriched by its pages; and from cover to
cover It is illustrated by Nasmyth himself, who is
a versatile and finished artist. Though on even
terms with men in all ranks of society, James
Nasmyth was essentially a working man, and so
possessed the confidence of his own workmen, who
knew him to be thorough, so that strikes scarcely
ever touched him. He ’s a great man ; and the
Queen has never belittled him with a C.M.G.
Mr. James Merriman is dead. We are very
sorry to hear it, though that a gentleman who has
been three times Mayor could have survived so
long has always surprised us I In the whole of the
City of Sydney, it is to be questioned If there was
any one who had an amount of influence equal to
that possessed by the deceased. When he wanted
to go into Parliament, he went in; and did he ex-
perience a desire to go Into the Council, no one had
the temerity to oppose him. The late gentleman,
it will be no new thing to say (and we like to say
new things), was “widely known and will be deeply
lamented.” This Is the “pitch” of the para-
graphist—the drone of the undertaker I But we
can say a lot more than this. Mr. Merriman was
quietly and unobtrusively charitable. He was
foolish enough to give away a very great deal of
money, and to never advertise it in (or through) the
Herald. For this we find it very hard to forgive
him. And though Mr. Merriman is dead, we cannot
conceal the fact that we should have respected
him much more had he consented, in life, to
set himself, so far as his charitable inclina-
tions were concerned, straight with the public. Mr,
Merriman lived in a large but rather rambling
house in Argyle-street. It was always bright and
clean, and the shutters were of a verdant splendour
that was remarkable. At Miller’s Point the late
Mr. T. M. was king. He seems to have owned it
all from the Argyle Cut to the Central Wharf.
But with the exception of maintaining a handsome
carriage and pair for his family, his unostenta-
tiousness bordered on the primitive. Still, as we
have remarked, there was lots of all sorts con-
tinually being “ put upon his plate.” He wanted
one son made a Transit Commissioner, and the
thing was done. George (of that ilk) took a fancy
to bo City Solicitor in succession to poor Dick
Driver, and he was made City Solicitor accord-
ingly. Later, George thought he would like to
represent West Sydney. The late Mr. Merriman
waved his wand, and George was straightway put
in. And now the old man is dead. Eh, bicn, tant
pis! And could a column in any paper mean
more?
Here is a lump of the proclamation read by
“the Honorable J. Kapena” at the coronation of
that odoriferous half-Kanaka-half-African darkey
known as His Majesty King Kalakaua of the Sand-
wich Islands the other day. It is enough to make
the uncrowned Czar—how are you, Alick ?—crawl
out of his coal-hole and rend his bomb-proof
iacket:—“ Princes, Nobles, Hepresentatives, and
> eople of Hawaii assembled,—I here proclaim
unto you that David, Laamea, Kamanakapuu,
Mahinulani, Naloiaehuokalani, Luraialanl, Kala-
kaua, the King, Generalissimo, Ke Alii Kapu,
Hoana, Ka wela, Ka moe, Ka Ikuhalpuhilanlnuu,
Wohl Kuakahili, Haku o ka Poni anai Moi, Haku
o ka Ohiako a me ka Palaoa Pae, Kukuiaikeawakea,
Kama Alii Hanau o Ka Aina, Grand Master of the
Royal Order of Karaenamena I., Grand Master of
the Royal Order of Kalakaua, Grand Master of
the Royal Order of Kapiolani, Grand Master
of the Royal Order of the Crown of Hawaii,
Knight of the Order of Francis Joseph of Austria,
Knight of the Order of St. Lazarus and St. Maurice
of Italy—[Here follows a list of eleven other Eui o-
pean Orders of which King Kalakaua is a member]
—President of the Privy Council of State, the Son
of the Alii Kapaakea and the Alii Keohokalole, la
the rightful occupant of the Hawaiian Throne,
and Sovereign Chief of the Hawaiian Islands and
dependencies, as heretofore claimed by his prede-
cessors, chosen by the Nobles and Representatives
of the kingdom, and that you render unto his
Majesty all fealty and loyal obedience under the
laws of the Realm.” The king, we hear, “took
the crown from his Chancellor, and, like
another Napoleon, put it on his own head.”
The ebony Queen “wore a magnificent robe
of ruby velvet, with a splendid train, which
was borne by two of her attendant ladies.” There
were also princesses “magnificently attired in
dresses of pale pink satin, with tunics of crimson
velvet richly trimmed with gold braids and a deep
gold fringe.” A hundred years ago there was little
to choose between the Maoris and the Hawaiiana
In point of savagery—though the former were men
of more muscle and energy, and lived in a more
bracing climate. A century later the Maoris are
dying out, whilst Hawaii is an independent civilised
state. King Tawhaio wears a battered bell-topper,
and lives in a village of whares. King Kalakaua is
“ dressed as a generalissimo,” and all the rest of it.
What has wrought the difference ? Colonisation 1
DANTE GABRIEL ROSSETTI.
Talk about yer Jersey Lilies! Ain’t She a daisy ?


The Furniture Column.
A
TTRACTION8 AT THE ROYAL FURNISH-
ING ARCADE.
Good Investments for Everybody.
Three immense showrooms filled with highly
attractive articles of furniture of every descrip-
tion and price. Intending buyers have every
facility for selecting what they require. The first,
or main lloor, is just upon 300 feet in length; the
second floor 180 feet; and the third floor (which
was tlio gallery, but now converted into a spacious
showroom), 180 feet. The various articles here
displayed are not only attractive generally in
quality and design, but in PRICE, and buyers
should take advantage of present opportunities,
and make their selections.
The LOWEST NET CASH PRICE placed upon
everything.
THE ONE RULE, wo may say the greatest, the
first and chief, upon which the business was so
successfully founded, namely, that of MARKING
EVERYTHING IN PLAIN FIGURES AT THE
LOWEST NET CASH PRICE, is zealously main-
tained.
We do not know of any greater inducement to
buyers than this, and certain it is we do not recol-
lect ever having had such a stock as the present to
offer.
MAKE YOUR PURCHASES AT THE ROYAL
FURNISHING ARCADE.
HOUSES FURNISHED for £15.
HOUSES FURNISHED for £25,
HOUSES FURNISHED for £35,
HOUSES FURNISHED for £90,
HOUSES FURNISHED for £70,
HOUSES FURNISHED for £100,
HOUSES FURNISHED for £300,
HOUSES FURNISHED for £000.
or for any other amount required.
Ask for a copy of our Economical House Furnish-
ing Guido, containing lists.
Wo shall continue our weekly extracts from the
Furnishing Guide in the New Series of The Bui.le-
tin, well knowing its value as an advertising
medium, and will now begin with the first of the
eight examples.
For the sum of .£15 prompt net cash,
You can Furnish a House as follows:
PARLOUR.
Dining Table, 4x3
Chctfonior safe
Colonial sofa
Pour cane-seated chairs
Clock
Pair vases
Lamp
Fender
Matting for room
Hearth slip
BEDROOM.
Half-tester bedstead, 4ft Bin .
Pair palliasses
Mattress
Bolster
Two pillows
Chest of drawers
Washstand and toilet set
Toilet table
Toilet-glass
Chair
Matting slip
KITCHEN.
£
1
1
s. d.
14 6
5 0
10 0
0 0
7 6
2 0
4 B
4 B
B 0
3 0
15 0
11 B
13 B
13 0
7 6
3 0
3 B
2 0
Pine table
Chair
Six plates
Six plates
Vegetable dish
Moat dishes, Is and Is 9d...
Six cups and saucers
Sugar basin
Milk-jug
Butter dish
Salt-cellar
Six tumblers
Six knives and forks
Two table spoons
Six tea spoons
Kettle
Boiler ...
Saucepans, 3s 3d and 3s .
Frying pan
Tea pot
Washbasin
Galvanized Tub
Bucket
Dipper
Baking Dish
Candlestick
Nutmeg Grater
Pepper castor
Kitchen spoon
Pair fiat irons
Millet broom
Scrub brush
Dust shovel
7 B
2 B
1 8
2 0
2 6
2 0
2 6
1 0
1 0
1 0
9
2 0
3 0
1 8
1 B
3 6
6 0
5 3
1 0
1 6
1 6
5 0
1 9
1 0
10
6
3
6
4
3 0
1 0
1 0
1 0
£15 0 0
Next week the £35 List will appear
Applications for Copies of the Guide, containing
full information together with an illustrated cata-
logue of our Austrian Furniture, will receive im-
mediate attention. Post Free.
Campbell Brothers,
Royal Furnishing Arcade,
420 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NEXT THE ROYAL HOTEL.
CREWEL WORK is now all the fashion with the
ladies, and various are the modes of display-
ing it. Uncovered Gipsy Tables have been lat ely in
demand for the purpose. We are now selling them
at 8s 6d each, delivered in city or suburbs—certainly
a great reduction upon former prices.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 George-street, Sydney, next the Royal Hotel.
When William Ewart Gladstone was young
hi was not all virtue and genius. Morality at
college then was not very stern; but discipline
w is the birch was the chief instrument of rule,
and it is dreadful to think of the “ grand old man ”
being horsed on another boy—perhaps some em-
bryo leader of the Opposition, or hated Home
Ruler of the future—while matters were so ar-
ranged as to allow of the most convenient applica-
tion of corrective discipline. And, one of his
tutors being a noted sporting character, equally
fearful it is to contemplate the idea of the Prime
Minister in esse sallying out at night in search of
adventures, bonneting watchmen, removing door-
knockers, gazing on prizefighters, and waxing
enthusiastic over the prowess of pets of the rat-
pit; finally, perchance, being run in, and bailed
out! Young William, however, was pretty good
in the bulk, though in the face of considerable
obstacles. For most of his arithmetic (Chancellor
of the Exchequer!) was learned from a half-pay
major. While, as it was the custom of the
“sixth form” at church to dispel the tedium of
service by cracking nuts, and distributing almonds
and raisins to each other, it may be assumed that
his religious exercises were earned on under pecu-
liar difficulties. It is hard to withhold admiration
from the sturdiness of a religious nature that
could resist the seductions of clandestine almonds
and raisins, and surreptitiously-acquired nuts, and
yet survive to sing pneans over the virtues of wood-
chopping half a century on. In sports, young
William was neither a Trlckett nor a Bannerman;
in fact, with bated breath be it said, he was a
“ muff.” His great chum was Arthur Hallam (of
“In Memoriam” fame), and his model of worship,
the worthy Canning. And like the great Sirenry,
he was also fiery in his youth, and wrote poetry
then that he’d be strongly inclined to back away
from now. Among his contributions to the Eton
Miscellany is an Ode to Wat Tyler that would
fill Bradlaugh with ecstacy, and quite upset with
envy the gentle Anna Parnell. In it, Wat’s spirit
is entreated to
“ flap its wings
At midnight, o’er the couch of kings.”
And he is invited to joyfully contemplate time the
when he shall
“ soon or late
Have burst Subjection’s iron chain.
Have sealed the bloody despot’s fate.
Or cleft a peer or priest in twain!"
It’s certainly strange that Parnell has not yet
called on “Coercion Bill” to oiler an explanation of
these truculent lines.
The oldest man in the world is claimed by
America : but we have the ugliest one. The
American Methuselah, however, was an Indian,
who said he was 150 years old. He died shortly
after making this statement. Died of remorse, we
suppose. The manner of his death was this: He
set fire to his house and consumed himself in it.
Our old men are never in such a hurry: they wait
for the fire till after. And we have some odd old
men in the colonies, if you like. Take the instance
of that one over in Opunake, N.Z., who, twenty
years ago, bought a shipwrecked vessel, and has
been living ever since by peddling such pieces of
his property as he can secure when the tide is low.
We nave also heard of a man who lived on a whale
which got washed upon the beach one time, but
we are afraid this story is too much like a whale.
Two other old men, however, just as old as these,
we knew personally. One of them lived, and, as
far as we know to the contrary, lives now, in the
hollow of a tree about seven miles from Ballarat.
Some score of years ago he struck a small pile to
the extent of £1500. This he was one day
carrying into Ballarat in a bag to deposit
it in the bank when he lost it. How he lost it we
forget, but he lost it, anyhow. Since then he has
lived in that hollow tree, and travelled every day
backwards and forwards looking for the lost
treasure. He goes into Ballarat regularly for his
rations, which are supplied him free. And he never
despairs of finding that bag some day. The other
old man we met on a station, not far from Wagga.
He claimed to be over 108 years old, and to remem-
ber the pedigrees of most of our first families, the
ancestors of whom he spoke of rather irreverently
as “ old Bill,” or “one-eyed Jim,” or “Gallows
Joe,” or some similarly facetious nomme de galore.
He was a hideous-looking old villain, and might,
from appearances, have well been twice as old
as he told us. He professed to remember the
French Revolution perfectly well. Here was a
link with the past—an actual living memory
of the time when the air was torn with
thunder, and the clouds rained blood —when
Marat, Danton, Robespierre were names that
made the world tremble I The Battle of
Waterloo he considered too trivially recent to be
worth talking about, but he had seen “Bony;”
saw him when he was brought into Plymouth
Sound on board his British Majesty’s ship
Bellerophon, and thought him an ordinary-looking
little man with a big head. Only for this head,
thought he would have looked like anybody else.
When the people flocked round the ship in boats,
to get a glance at him, the little man with the big
head stood upon the quarter-deck and looked
down upon them with an indifferent smile, just
for all the world as if he had been looking at a lot
of kittens. Remembered all this well, because he
himself was “lagged” shortly after. So far, the
old man was communicative; but here he stopped.
We discovered that he had been in the service of
the owners of the station on which he was living
for a great number of years. They built him a
comfortable hut when he became too old to do
anything, and in this we found him. His skin was
like a wrinkled plaister, or like parchment that
had been scored up and down and across
in so many places that there wasn’t a
spot left for another score. And, when he laughed
—which he did, the old rip, in telling us about now
he had crawled out of his hut the summer before
and shot a swagsman in the leg who had lit a fire
near the station fence —when he laughed all these
wrinkles overlapped and disappeared one into the
other till his face looked like a shut concertina or
a closed bellows. And he was covered all over
with sulphui^—having some skin disease—which,
with all his other hideousness, made him look like
the veritable devil himself grown old. And yet
this aged creature —ov er whose head a century had
rolled, who had outlived all that makes life for
other men, who had no friends, no hopes, no in-
terests, no desires—ate and drank and smoked, and
considered his existence as precious as do the best
of us in the prime of our manhood. Only the
philosopher thinks life not worth living—and he is
the one man of all others who takes the most care
to hold to it as long as he can.
* * *
When Massey, the N.Z. debenture-forger,
went down from Dunedin to Invercargill by train
m custody of a detective, he was allowed to take
his seat in a smoking carriage with other passengers.
The railway guard who passed through to collect
tickets did not know the detective, who, of course,
is entitled to travel free, and asked him for his
ticket. The detective gave him a significant nod,
and said it was all right, but the guard did not
appear to be satisfied. Mr. Massey, who was
sitting alongside, here interposed: “Oh, I
will pay for him; he is a friend of mine.”
Professor Strong and Mr. Leeper, of Mel-
bourne University (the latter, by the way, a son-in-
law of Sir Wigram Allen), have been scorched by
the London Spectator, re their “ Australian trans-
lation of Juvenal.” Professor Strong is the gentle-
man who some years ago, in conjunction with Pro-
fessor Pearson, brought out at Melbourne an “ Eng-
lish Grammar, ’ in which the very wisest only of
the relatives knew their own antecedents Sir
John O’Shanassy died worth about £350,000. He
leaves his eldest son £15,000 a year Mr. J. M.
Macrossan, late Queensland Minister for Public
Works, is a member of the firm of Young and
M’Sharry, railway contractors for the Murrum-
burrah and Young line. Mr. Macrossan is super-
intending that line Mr. “Jack” Want will
return to Australia in his own yacht, vid the Medi-
terranean— Lumley Hill wants to sell out his
interest in the Brisbane Observer to “a pur-
chaser of suitable political and transcontinental
views”....The will of old Mr. Costley, the Auckland
man who left £130,000 to local charities, &c., bene-
fited his landlady to the extent of £3000, she having
paid him many little attentions—Mr. Angas, Sir
Thomas Elder, Mr. R. Barr Smith, and Mr. Gray
(of the Reed Beds) are the four richest men in
South Australia. The latter is worth over a million
in landed property. Strict economy and letting
other people look after the hospitals, &c., has been
his programme Mr. Walter Little, theiournalist
who while in delirium jumped overboard from the
steamer Polly and was drowned, resided in
Demerara for some time, studying sugar cultiva-
tion. In Queensland he had been connected with
papers at Brisbane, Ipswich, Gympie, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton, and Mackay Mr. John Ward,
artist of the London Graphic, who was on a visit
to Sandhurst for the benefit of his health, died
there on Thursday last It is said that when the
leases of the property bequeathed to charities, &c.
by the late Mr. Costley, or Auckland, fall in, it will
be worth fully £300,000 Mr. S. Begg, the promis-
ing young artist, formerly of Sydney, has gone
home to study.
• > •
The Queen, when driving out one after-
noon near Balmoral, requested John Brown to give
her a comforter to put round her neck, as Her
Majesty felt cold. Shortly afterwards the Queen
desired to remove it, when John exclaimed:
“HootsI jist keep it on; ye dinna ken your ain
mind for twa minutes thogither!” — Lord Charles
Beresford, of Alexandrian bombardment fame,
has broken his collar-bone while “ pig-sticking ” in
India There has lately been promoted from the
ranks to a commission in the 43nd Highlanders—
the “ Black Watch ” —a young soldier, whose father
was a Major in the army, and his mother a Pathan
native lady. He won his commission by distin-
guished pluck at Tel-el-Kebir—Prince Leopold
entered his 30th year on April 7th — A number of
English literary gentlemen have petitioned Presi-
dent Gr5vy for the release of Prince Krapotkine.
... Marshall Bazaine, who is living in Madrid, very
poor, is about to publish a history of the Pranco-
Prussian war, chiefly in defence of his own defence
of Metz The Queen’s chief cook is an Esquire—
by virtue of his office, just as an attorney is a gen-
tleman—by Act of Parliament. Eugene Thiou,
Esq., is the boss of the royal saucepans at present.
Bismarck has been 33 years Premier of Prussia,
In other words, he has reigned 33 years—
In a characteristic speech at an Edinburgh banquet
lately, Professor Stuart Blackie remarked that “ lie
thought they should not have had such toasts as
the Queen, the Prince of Wales . . . and all
that humbug I” On the same evening he informed
his hearers that there were three great men born
in the year 1809, viz., Gladstone, Tennyson, and—
his noble self!” Miss Louisa Alcott, authoress
of the favourite book “Little Women,” sent her
first literary contribution to the Boston Evening
Gazette ; and she tells, almost as pathetically as
Dickens did, how her eyes dimmed with joy when
she saw it announced on the yellow poster outside
the office. “That afternoon,” she says, “my
sisters went to look at the famous placard, stole
it. and brought it home to our excited family.
The tattered paper still exists, folded away with
other relics of those early days, so hard and yet so
sweet, when the first victories were won, and the
enthusiasm of youth lent romance to life’s drud-
gery.” Not many, perhaps, know that Miss Alcott
is the Joe of her own “Little Women,” and that
the original of Laurie is Julian Hawthorne, the
novelist At Stepping Stones, Westmoreland,
died the other day William Wordsworth, 73, the
last surviving son of the poet Sir Beaumont
Dixie and his charmingly truthful wife have re-
tired for a season to their estate in Leicestershire.
The late giddy Alexander, when at a Parisian
bazaar in aid of the wounded in the hospitals,
whispered to a pretty girl, when giving liberally
of his louisd’ors: “ Mademoiselle, this is for your
beautiful, bright eyes.” The lady bowed, and pre-
sented her hand again. “What!” replied he, in
astonishment, “more?” “Yes, sire, I now want
something for the poor,” was her reply.
VANITY FAIR.
When you take calomel don’t eat fish. The
large quantity of salt (chloride of sodium) in the
fish, combining chemically with the calomel (chlo-
ride of mercury) forms bi-chloride of mercury
(corrosive sublimate). When you take calomel
avoid salt and salty food as you would the most
deadly poison.... At the cafe : “ Walter, take away
this soup ; it’s as cold as ice.” “ Oh, you must be
mistaken, sir ! I tasted it as I was bringing it, and
it’s nice and hot, sir!” “Tasted it!” “Oh, no, sir!
Beg pardon, sir, I wouldn’t think of doing such a
thing, sir ! I only just plit my finger into it, sir I”
Br. Bell, inventor of the telephone, who was
seven years ago a poor man of science, glad to earn
35 dollars for a night’s lecture, or five dollars for an
occasional item to the newspapers, is now worth
no less than 6,000,000 dollars, and this does not take
into account the value of his interest in the tele-
phone in places where it has yet to be introduced..
The Vanderbilt fancy dress ball, given at the resid-
ence of W. K. Vanderbilt, second son of the reign-
ing head of the house, was, beyond doubt, the
most splendid entertainment ever given in the
States. 1300 invitations were issued, but several
thousand people were present. Twelve detectives
mingled among the guests, and any unknown faces
were speedily “ investigated.” This was the more
necessary, because threats were received that the
occasion would be enlivened by a dynamite explo-
sion-consequent on the bitterness felt against the
Vanderbilts among the fanatical Socialists in the
German quarter. In one set the dresses of the
men each cost from 600 dollars upwards, and of the
ladies 3000 dollars. The Vanderbilts themselves
spent 65,000 on the fete; 4000 dollars went for cham-
pagne; 75000 dollars for flowers; and so on, item
after item. A careful computation shows that the
total cost of the ball in dresses, etc., was 350,000
dollars, and that no less than 15,000,000 dollars worth
of diamonds were present... .A hawker, who asked
to see the head of the family, was referred to the
servant-girl Impecunious Melbourne doctor to
bailiff (to whom he has just given £1 to temporarily
stop an execution): “lam as good as a gold-mine
to you (adjective) bailiffs.” “ Yes, but it takes a
good many calls to make you pay”.... China is ahead
on bridges; the largest in the world being her
structure at Lagang, over an arm of the China Sea.
It is five miles long, built entirely of stone, has
300 arches 70 feet high, and a roadway of 70 feet
wide. The parapet is a balustrade, and each of the
pillars, which are 75 feet apart, support a pedestal
on which is placed a lion, 31 feet long, made of one
block of marble Little Tommy said he liked the
sermon pretty well. The beginning was very good,
and so was the end, but it had too much middle....
Passing the cemetery in the train. Strange
woman (complacently) to fellow-passenger“ I’ve
got three of the best husbands there that ever a
woman had.” What disease is most frequently
transmitted by kissing ? Clara. Palpitation of the
heart we believe Women are anxiously awaiting
the new fashions. They want to know whether
the incoming 1 bonnet will be built of four straws
and one ribbon, or three straws and four roses—
At the markets: Gay young spark offers to carry
bundle for pretty girl: “Allow me, Miss, to assist
you.” Pretty girl declines. “ But cannot I help
you in some way ?” Pat mother, carrying baby,
emerges from behind the girl. “ Perhaps, sir, you
will be so kind as to carry baby for mother, who is
very tired. Wo live two streets away.” Tableau..
The preface to a “Guido to English Con-
versation" (entitled “English as she is Spoke”),
published, in all good faith, by a Portuguese pro-
fessor, contains the following:—“ Wo expect them
who the little book (for the care what we wrote
him, and for her typographical correction) that
may bo worth the acceptation of the studious per-
sons, and especially of the youth at which we dedi-
cated him particularly." The latest feminine
Christian names are Gladstonia and Uevengia.
One is English, the other Irish A diver
remarks: “I have often soon sharks advance to
within a few foot of me, then stop and look in
apparent wonder; but they are a most cowardly
fish, and the slightest menace on my part would
frighten them away. As I was repairing a
schooner one day, I felt something tampering
with my left-hand middle linger. Looking, I
found a baby shark, evidently too young to
leave its maternal parent, trying to nibble it
The very latest corpse-reviver out is a liqueur
called “ The Plying Dutchman." “ Dagonet”
in the Hefehee, says:—“Ihave received some
bottles of a new liqueur, called Plying Dutch-
man, from an eminent firm, with a request
that I will notice it. 1 have done more than notice
it; I have drunk it. it was very good—in fact, it
gave me the Flying Dutch courage to say so in
print.” — The fact that the Queen has just
knighted two doctors of music recalls the
circumstance that a not very remote ances-
tor of Her Majesty swore that the two most use-
less studies in this world were “boetry and
baintiug.”... A prominent Melbourne detec-
tive states that an increasingly large number
of women frequent so-called confectioners’
sh ips for sly-drinking purposes Charlie Vere
de Vere (sententiously): “Geniuses, my dear
Miss Marlborough, arc men who just miss
being fools, and fools are men who just miss being
geniuses." Miss Marlu.mmgh (awe-struck): “What
original things you say, Mr. Verede Vere! I some-
times think that you are almost a genius.” — Con-
versation lollies, with the "conversation” in
Maori, is a novelty hit upon recently by an Auck-
land tradesman. He disposed of a ton of them
very quckly Hetweon two Communists: “ When
there will be no more crape or merino to make
black Hags, we will use our shirts.” At Mel-
bourne. Passenger (rushing up at the last mo-
ment); “Brighton train?” Porter: “ Ves, sir.”
Passenger: “What brake?” Porter: “Woods’,
sir." Piissongcr; “ Then I'll wait till the next.”...
The Queens rule that ladies who have llgurod
before the Divorce judge (even though blamelessly)
should not appear at Court, has been relaxed
somewhat. She sent a special note to the Mar-
chioness of Ulaudford, who had been under the
ban, owing to her husband's indiscretions. ..
Electricity is being applied to the working of fans
for drawing-room use. Hut it can’t make them
much more electrifying than they are sometimes..
At the last .St. Petersburg!! State ball, the Empress
intimated that she desired to confer a wait/, on an
officer, of ball-room fame. Hut his skill seemed to
desert him, for, notwithstanding his most despe-
rate endeavours, he and the royal lady both fell to
the floor. The worst was, ho dared not whisper
even to his dearest friends that it was her fault....
A priest named Galimberti, at'Milan, claims to have
invented the means of taking photographs in
natural colours While excavating foundations
for Messrs. Drummond’s bank, fossil bones of the
cave-lion, mammoth, and elephant were found at
Charing Cross, in the heart of London — Don’t
think yourself greatly complimented when a lady
asks tor a lock of your hair. She only wants to
put it with that of a lot of other tools in the “ hair
album,” which ladles now keep. And over it she’ll
put your name, age, colour of eyes, manner, dress,
and income—if she can find it out; and then show
you round to all her friends, with her own com-
ments. So don’t think, when you’re singled
out tor this distinction, that you’ve made a mash..
It seems that Fanny mended Higgar’s (M.P.) socks
during the courtship. He said that he would not
be backward in “ asking her to do that for him, as
all he saved would ultimately go to his darling.”
Well, she didn’t get all ho saved; but she got a
good deal of it The largest pearl in the world
has just been found on the Mexican coast. It is
lemon-shaped, one inch long, and three-quarters
wide, weighing 75 carats—Tin-foil sot behind
false diamonds enhances their brilliancy till they
glitter like real ones Ribbon-work is one of the
pretty old conceits that has been revived. The
ribbons are only halt an inch wide, and are passed
til rough the base material with a largo needle and
fastened down. By means of different colours and
shaded ribbons, beautiful flowers, or, indeed, any
gay design, can bo made, the ribbons being in re-
lief with the edges twisted, crumpled, or caught
down in any position required, Taste will do
wonders in this new art Mexican bandits are the
most fascinating of robbers. One of them looked
on a lady’s jewellery: “With such bright eyes,
senora, what need have you of those dull stones?”
So he took them Baron de Worms, in a speech
lately in the Commons, said warmly: “We owe
much to the Jews.” And when a feeling groan
came from a well-known member in a dark corner:
“We do!” roars of laughter followed the naive,
but unintended, confession The Medical Press
observes that while crinoline was most dangerous,
as, by exposing the limbs to cold, it laid the foun-
dations of many ailments, crinolotte Is merely in-
convenient; being something in the shape of a
bird-cage stuffed under the dress in the region of
the archaic bustle, which ludicrous excrescence
inis no worse effect than assimilating the form of an
English belle to the outlines of a Hottentot—
There will be Herculean work for the Orange
postal officials for some weeks. A gay young
Lothario, aged 80, asks through the ever-availablo
News for a handsome, domesticated bride not over
33. This hoary-headed modern David has £400 per
annum to offer as the price of the sacrifice... .They
went in to get a marriage license —hand in hand.
“ What’s your name?” whispered the registrar.
“ John Jehki—no—hem!—Alberto Fortescuo,” said
he. Then he drew off, very red in the face. “ And
yours, ma’am?” said the official. “ Moliaran Sxni—
which I mean to say Amaranthe de Wernon,” she
stuttered, Then he said—“ Ah I It’s no good oar
gettin’ spliced, old boy; I’ll ’ave to get another
donna to mind the crib while I go round with the
barrer.” “ Hesitate and you are lost.” Thus two
loving hearts were blighted! — “If,” said Brown,
“animals do not exist after death, neither will
man. There is no difference between man and a
beast.” Jones mildly replied, “If anybody could
convince me of that, it would be you, Brown.” —
When the Crown Prince’s silver wedding was cele-
brated, the Queen's present to the happy couple
was a marble statue of herself. Now, this suggests
what we think a rather bright idea about those
Post Office carvings. Let’s show our loyalty, and
pack them off.. ..On April 7th, Jay Gould’s yacht,
the handsomest steam craft in the world, was
launched at Philadelphia, in the Delaware River.
The millionaire’s daughter christened her the At-
lanta. She is fitted in a style of magnificence al-
most unparalleled — The indiscretions of “the
lady of rank” who received an honorarium for
suppling the World with the paragraph which has
led to the Lonsdale libel case have excited keen in-
dignation in the “highest quarters,” and it was
probable that her name would be omitted by Her
Majesty from the list of those invited to the State
entertainments ...Every year the Duke of Athol
plants from six hundred thousand to a million
trees. One of the family was known as the Planter
Duke, having in his lifetime planted 37,000,000 trees,
covering 15,000 acres Oscar Wilde pronounced
American sunsets rather tawdry. They will pro-
bably be discontinued The latest discovery is.
that Cinderella never had any glass slipper to put
on her tiny foot when she did the military waltz
with the Prince. In translating the yarn from the
French, some booby confused two words sounding
alike, and wrote verre instead of vair. Of course
the slipper was fur Parisian bonnets are now
made of wash-leather, with twine trimming. It is
one of most sensible novelties of the day; for
when the bonnet gets shabby it can be used to
clean the windows and the plate, while the trim-
ming could be put round the spiced beef.
“Hallo, drunk again! I thought I put a
notice in the papers to publicans not to sell
you any more liquor ?”
Why you see, tact xsh, I got liquor under a
(hie!) ’Burned name —so its not me ’ts drunk,
’ts my nom ’plume, ‘ undershtand?’


XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
X\
XX
XX
XX
XI
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
aX
XX
XX
kets, extra heavy blankets; Eider
Down Quilts, Rugs and Portman-
teaus, Travelling- Hugs for the mil-
lion.
HORDERN BROTHERS.
BERLIN WOOLS.
Wo have just received a quantity
of Berlin Wools that wo are selling
at the astonishing low price of 3s.
Gd. a lb. Just fancy, only 3s. 6d. for
Berlin Wools in all the new testhetic
shades. These wools are done up in
1-lb. lots, and we offer them to you
as a cheap thing.
HORDERN BROTHERS.
MEN’S and ROYS’ CLOTHING.
This is the Department in which
wo shine. We have an enormous
stock of every conceivable article of
men’s and boys’ attire.
The special lines for to-day are—
Men’s trousers, 7s lid
Men’s trousers and vests, 14s Gd
Men’s suits, 20s
Men’s shirts (white), 2s Ud
Men’s hats, 2s 6d
Boys’ knicker suits, 4s lid
Boys’ hats. Is
Boys’ overcoats, any price
Boys’ collars, Gd
Youths’ trousers, 4s Gd
Don’t forget us when you want
Men’s and Boys’ Suits, Hats, Mercery
Don’t forget us when you want
Overcoats, Clothes to Order, and Bags
Don’t forget us when you want
Rugs tor travelling.
HORDERN BROTHERS, Pitt-street,
is the place for you.
HORDERN BROTHERS, 211 Pitt-street,
expect
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX expect you. XX
XX HORDERN BROTHERS, 211 Pitt-street, XX
XX are ready for you. XX
XX HORDERN BROTHERS, 211 Pitt-street, XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
will serve you well
To-day.
To-day.
Blankets, Sheetings, Irish Linens,
Silks, Velvets, Dresses, Merinos,
Bonnets, Hats, Stays, Mantles, Para-
chutes, Fancy Bags, Soaps, Scents,
Combs, Brushes, Buttons, Cottons,
Hosiery, Gloves, Ribbons, Laces,
Collars, Cuffs, Handkerchiefs, Wools,
Carpets, Oilcloth, everything and
anything a draper ought to sell.
Remember our address, and do not
be misled—
HORDERN BROTHERS,
211 PITT STREET (ONLY).
Get out of the tram at King-street.
N.B.—Country orders have our best
attention.
Country residents, write for patterns
of anything, and we will send them to
you free.—H.B.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
xxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
MULLINER, LEAMINGTON.
STANHOPE PHAETONS; DOG, TANDEM,
and SPORTING CARTS ; Barouches, Landaus,
Coaches, Harness, &c., Builder to H.M. the Queen,
H.I.M. the Empress of Austria, His Grace the
Duke of Beaufort, &e., &c.
Orders telegraphed (30s.) and executed in seven
weeks. English prices. Coloured designs of latest
fashions kept in stock.
—
WILKINSON , WILLIAMS and CO.,
HOYLE'S CHAMBERS,
BOND STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for Australia, New Zealand, Tasmania.
NEXT SATURDAY.
BIRKENHEAD LAND SALE.
POPULAR TERMS.
ALLOTMETS to suit all Classes of Buyers.
Terms to suit all Classes of Buyers.
Water Frontages to Iron Cove.
Water Frontages to Parramatta River.
Main Road Frontages.
All Frontages to Streets not less than 66 feet
wide.
W ATKIN and WATKIN have been favoured
with instructions by the Board of Manage-
ment of the Excelsior Land Investment and Build-
ing Company and Bank, Limited, to sell by auction,
next SATURDAY, on the estate, commencing at 3
p.m. sharp,
The residue of the BIRKENHEAD ESTATE,
comprising frontages to the
Birkenhead-road, abutting on the magnificent
Iron Cove Bridge, just across from Balmain
Frontages to Cary-street, frontages to Roseby-
street
Frontages to Renwick-street, frontages to Day-
street
Frontages to King’s-road, frontages to Thorn-
ley-street
Frontages to Park Avenue, frontages to Jarrett
Park.
WATER FRONTAGES. WATER FRONTAGES.
AMPLE CHOICE of LOTS, and choice of following
LIBERAL TERMS:—
No. 1.—25 per cent, deposit, balance in seven days.
FREE TRANSFERS.
No. 2.—20 per cent, deposit, balance in four quar-
terly payments, WITHOUT INTEREST.
No. 3.—10 per cent, deposit, and eight quarterly
payments, with interest added at the rate of 5
per cent.
No. 4.—10 per cent, deposit, and 16 quarterly pay-
ments, interest at 6 per cent.
No. 5.—10 per cent, deposit, and 24 quarterly pay-
ments, interest at 7 per cent.
No. 6.—£5 DEPOSIT PER LOT; balance to remain
on Building Society terms, viz., at the rate of
4s. per week for each £100 owing.
TORRENS’ TITLE.
The large number of excellent Buildings, Hotels,
Stores, Business Premises, and Dwellings which
have been erected on portions of this Estate since
first sale, only a few months since, is the remark
which voluntarily escapes the lips of every passer
by.
Charming views of Iron Cove, Parramatta River,
Balmain, Leichhardt, Hunter’s Hill, North Shore,
&c., &c., are obtainable from portions of this estate.
We court inspection. Inspection must lead to
appreciation; appreciation to purchase.
Not only do the vendors offer the choice of most
liberal terms to buy the land, but they offer to
lend to the extent of nine-tenths of cost to parties
desirous of building. This should be an important
consideration to parties desirous of becoming free-
holders.
Plans and all necessary particulars can be ob-
tained at Vendors’ Offices, 171 York-street; ox’,
from us, 281 Pitt-street.
The Sale is NEXT SATURDAY.
W. M. WALLACE,
Impox-ter of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and magazines received by
every mail.
ROYAL ARCADE, 496 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
M. T H O M A ,
IMPORTER OF
®”WORKS OF ART,
GERMAN & SWISS WOOD CARVINGS,
ARCADE BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
o
era
H O
E,
Lessee, W.J. Wilson. Sub-Lessee, a T l
Stage Manager, T. u. Appiv,.' Dc smj,t
Treasurer, J. F. Goldsworthy
INCREASING -j
MANOLA.
MANOLA.
MANOLA.
4th WEEK
4th WEEK
MANOLA.
MANOLA.
MANOLA.
[ENTHUSE
MANOLa
MANOr a
man©:
BALLET OE NATIONS!
BALLET OF NATIONS
BALLET OF NATIONS!
THIS and EVERY" EVENING
Admission—"Dress Circle, 5s.: Stall*
Box plan at Huenerbien’s Music wA 1*.
George-street, where sotits may be secii«S« 0tt *.
date in advance. Stalls and Pit tickets nh/? r anv
at Stone’s, tobacconist, next Theatre M oh aina| ilc
Secretary to A. T. Dunning, A. N. Halt if . T
THE AT RE RO YA
Messrs. Williamson. Gakkeh. &
Tremendour Buboe« Holt’s Novelty '
THIS and EVERY EVENING
at a quarter to 8, and terminating befrm.ii . ,
M ANKIND ! MANK1ND ! MAN v INn 0ck -
Characters by Mr Alfred Dampier V
Stammers, and Holt’s spcclally-seleeted g,,^ Nchb
Business-Manager for Mr. Hoit, W. H-Seaqra^ 5 ’’
North shore rowing
ANNUAL Ball. C L U «
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY,
Friday, 1st June, 1883.
Patron : His Excellency the Governor.
Costume : Evening Dress.
Stewards :
Commodore Erskine, R.N. T. B. Gaden Esn
Sir P. Jennings, K.C.M.G. B. O. Holter’manii
Hon. J. P. Abbott, M.P. M.P. ’
Hon. G. Thornton, M.L.C. R. Harnett. Esn
Hon: G. B. Dibbs, M.P. _ J, E. Ives, Esq.
Germany
T. R. Allt, Esq.
—, Esq.
Janies Thompson, Esq,
Thompson, Esq,
W . A. Tnllnh Vor. H
Alex. Oliver, Esq.
Tickets may be had from the Stewards, and from
the members of the Committee, Messrs. R \v
Bennett, S. A. Nowsham, Hubert P. Rich. H hi
Robey, and C. Ball.
ROBERT LITTLE,
Box 425, G.P.O.
Hon Sec.
GRAND FANCY BAZAAR,
l. will be hold in
THE PAVILION, PARRAMATTA PARK,
in
WEEK ENDING MAY 30th, 1883.
PROCEEDS
in aid of
ST. PATRICK’S R.C. CONVENT.
WILLIAM J. FERRIS,
Hon. See.
W. Howard Smith and Sons,
STRUTH’S WHARF and NEW WHARF
(Foot of King Street).
Offices: 43 KING STREET.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Brisbane to Port Mackay and Townsville
* To arrive.
W. HOWARD SMITH and SONS,
43 King Street, Sydney.
Armstrong's Remedy for Internal or
Bleeding Piles
apidly superseding all other modes of treatment.
nuiAiiin, ummusus liiu .
CONGESTION, stops BLEEDING, Pain, and tten
ing, in from 34 to 28 hours. Sold in bottles only,
4s. (id. and 10s.
ARMSTRONG’S PARAGON PILE OINTMEM,
FOR OUTWARD PILES. Price, 2s.
Armstrong’s (Camomile) Liver ami Bilio” 8
Pills,
For the Cure of Indigestion, Dyspepsia,P a |!l s ’ n .
the Side, Headache, Giddiness, Heartburn, > a
lency, and Habitual Constipation. 1 ney »
Healthy Tone and Vigour to the necessary s
of Digestion—the Stomach and Liver an
mild in their operation, promote Digestion,’
the Appetite, and strengthen the entire SJ
Price, Is., 2s., and 4s. Od.
Armstrong’s Red Jamaica Sarsapai’ll »>
in Combination with Dandelion nnd Eotash-
‘ Recommended by the Highest Medical® ,
as a Vitalising Blood Restorative and i
5s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 31s.
83?" G oods forwarded to all parts of the colon
and Price Lists sent post free.
160 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Two Doors below Compagnoni s.
TO SURVEY DRAFTSMEN.
eniplnynwfthe
"ANTED, Candidates for - ...
above capacity to apply J lt .,? 1 I ,vor-G c ? e I
•raftsman, or Mr. Peyton, and i
ration can be obtained.
Surveyor General’s Office,
Sydney, 30th April, 1883.
XX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXYXXXXXXXX XX
XX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XX
| not forget, when you want a bed-
XX
xx . ipl
XX 3J stead, that you can get one, any
XX style, any size, any price, at
XX HORDERN BROTHERS’, Pitt-street.
XX _
XX TAILORING DEPARTMENT.
In response to the wishes of many
of our gentlemen customers, it has
been thought advisable to import an
experienced CUTTER, and so place
our Order Department for Gentle-
men’s and Youths’ Clothing on the
very best modern and fashionable
basis, which we have accordingly
done. The latest Bond-street pat-
terns are being sent to us monthly
by our London representative. Our
Woollens are from the best West of
England and Continental Mills, and
our prices for Tailoring are going to
rank in the very forefront (even in
these cutting times) for extreme
moderation, combined with good
sowing and careful linish, the linens,
silks, &c., used in this department
being of the best.' A largo staff of
good tailoring hands insures orders
being delivered to time—an impor-
tant item, sometimes overlooked
elsewhere, much to the annoyance
of customers. We deliver your
goods anywhere in city or suburbs.
We hope to have your esteemed
order. Our prices none shall beat,
and wo study everyone to the very
best of our ability. Everyone has a
desire to get a good lit when order-
ing garments: we ensure that to you
by having experienced men in this
department.
Call early, and get a good suit that
will carry you through the winter.
Coats, Trousers, Vests, Hunting
Jackets, Riding Pants.
Ladles’ Habits, Boys’ Suits, Ser-
vants’ Liveries, &c.
ALL TO ORDER,
See our Tailoring Window for New
Tweeds.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX T"
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
HORDERN BROTHERS, Pitt-street,
HORDERNS’, in Pitt-street Mantles
HORDERNS’, in Pitt-street Ulsters
HORDERNS’, in Pitt-street Fur Capes
HORDERNS’, in Pitt-street Wool
HORDERNS’, in Pitt-street Clouds.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
UNDERCLOTHING DEPARTMENT.
Customers who don’t know, it will
find it to their advantage to note
that we keep a large and well-chosen
stock of Infants’ Pelisses and Little XX
Girls’ Frocks. We have Just opened XX
a line of these goods, among which
you find the newest colours and
combinations.
Ail the articles of a lady’s outfit
can be procured here in perfect fit-
ting garments; a very nice assort-
ment of Ladies’ Woollen Under-
clothing is kept.
In the Stay Department will be
found the most modern and perfect
fitting Corsets, among which may be
mentioned the Acme and Queen in
several prices; the “Flexible Hip,”
“Perfection,” “Dr. Warner’s ” pa-
tent, and Thompson’s glove-fitting.
HORDERN BROTHERS.
MANTLE DEPARTMENT.
We are daily opening choice lots
of Ladies’ Ulsters in the newest and
most approved shapes, among which
is the “ Newmarket/’ “Langtry,”
“Tel-el-Kebir,” and “Four-in-hand,”
in fawn, drabs, brown, and blacks,
in all sizes, and to fit most figures.
We are opening to-day some beau-
tiful Broch6 Silk Four-in-hand
Mantles, quilted and trimmed in fur,
lace, and jet; striped plush and plain
satin, cord, and tassels; also a few
Mantles made of the new Ottoman
cloth.
We have a very good stock of
Flannel Dressing Gowns in all
colours, embroidered on collars,
cuffs, and front, wuth wool, silk, and
crewels, giving the garment a very
rich appearance.
PUR CAPS are greatly in demand
at the present time, and we have
fortunately imported, and are now
showing, a very superior lot of
these goods, which for value are, we
believe, unequalled in town.
We almost forgot to mention that
we have now some of the new Eider
Down Quilted Dressing Gowns and
Underskirts, which are such a boon
to invalids, and in fact are very
suitable and comfortable for any
lady.
I We would also call your attention
to our nice assortment of Wool
Clouds and Squares for evening
wear ; also Evening Flowers, in large
and varied assortment.
And for the children we have
Ulsters in all sizes, and a variety of
colours. The “ Four-In-Hand ” espe-
cially, is exceedingly becoming,
iretty, and novel.
’ackcts we have in the very latest
lipes and in all the new cloths—in
drabs, grey, fawn, brown, and black,
with fancy colours and the triple
cape attached, and trimmed with
XX SSS cords and tassels and silk. Now
XX these are only a few of the many
XX novelties which we are showing in
XX fr.i this department, for it would be
XX *****’ next to an impossibility to enume-
XX rate within the compass of a news-
XX : paper announcement the endiess-
XX variety of pretty and novel articles
XX which we are constantly getting out
XX **~ from the old country.
XX HORDERN BROTHERS.
XX
XX BLANKETS.
XX You want blankets ? Very well,
XX then, come and see our gigantic pile
XX of these goods, placed just within
XX our main doorway; beautiful fleecy
XX pure wool blankets, in all sizes,
XX makes, and prices, to suit everyone.
XX Our half-guinea blankets and
XX guinea blankets we would especially
XX recommend to your notice, as they
XX are undoubtedly the most wonder-
XX ful thing in their way in this town.
XX Before you make your purchases,
XX see our universally admitted splen-
XX did stock of Blankets, Witney and
XX Bath Blankets, and Coloured Blau-
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
The “ Itudge ” Bicycle,
THE
BEST
IN THE
WORLD.
and
"
“ Coventry ” Rotary Tricycle.
Ridden by Mr. A. Lee, One-mile Amateur Champion
„ Mr. G. W. Godwin, Ten-miles Amateur Champion
„ Mr. E. H. M‘Rae, Sydney Bicycle Club
„ Mr. H. Moyse, Suburban do. do., &c., &c., &c.
SEND FOR REDUCED PRICE LIST. POST FREE.
J. COPLAND, 31 Market Street, Sydney.
COCOA
AND
Chocolate Man ,
Bristol Xjorrd.orr.
tv Dice: III totes, 32 Fitt Stmt.
P.O. BOX 715.
A curious case happened near Adelaide.
Mrs. Minis charged n clergyman with celebrating'
the marriage ox her son Charles Miels, knowing
him to bo under the ago of 31. She was the
only witness in evidence, and she admitted under
cross-examination that she had married two
brothel's, the second of whom was Charles’ father.
Consequently Charles was illegimato. As her son
was not legally her son, she was out of court.
Several of the Sydney papers, including
the Herald, Echo, and News, have republished a
very curious paragraph from the pen of the Lon-
don correspondent of the Argus concerning John
Brown’s funeral: —“The wreaths sent by the Queen
to be laid on the coffin were accompanied each by
a card, on which was written in the Koyal hand-
writing, ‘ A tribute of loving, grateful, and ever-
lasting friendship and affection from his truest,
best, and most faithful friend, Victoria 11. and I.’ ”
The other circumstances of singularity in con-
nexion with t his matter cannot be stated here, but
they have added not a little to the surprise and
wonder which the Queen’s demonstration of sorrow
has caused.


C °UN t
(i-
(■ *
r
Prepared according to the directions of Prof.
E. N. Hereford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PABTICITEABLY BECOMMENDKD FOB
DYSPEPSIA. HEADACHE. INDIGESTION.
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES,
HYSTERIA. WAKEFUSNESS. SEA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY, &C.
iW No Danger can Attend its Use.
Great Relief by Its Use.
WINSLOW LEWIS, M.D.. of Boston, the distin-
guished and popular physician, said:
“Having in my own person experienced those
ills for which the Acid Phosphate is prescribed, I,
having found groat relief and alleviation by its
use, most cheerfully attest my appreciation of its
excellence.”
Indigestion and madder and Kidney
Troubles.
Portland, Me., Oct. 2nd, 1880.
Hereford’s Acid Phosphate has become a favour-
ite remedy in my practice. When completely tired
out by prolonged wa kcfulncss and overwork, it is
of the greatest value to mo. I have given it in
certain forms of dyspepsia, in all cases of nervous
exhaustion from overwork, in certain affections of
the bladder and kidneys, and have always been
satislled with the results. I prescribe it more and
more us I become better acquainted with its pro-
perties. Of all the samples of medicine sent mo
during the past dozen years, Hereford’s AcldPhos-
phate is the only one I have over found which has
become a necessity in my own household. Per-
haps I should hardly have boon willing to write my
impressions of the Acid Phosphate if I had not
in my own person experienced its good effects.
C. O. FILES, M.D.
Derangement «f Hecrclory anil Nervlms
Systems.
Rutland, Vt., Jan. 33,1879.
While I am exceedingly averse to giving certifi-
cates, and almost always decline to do so, yet in
the case of “Hereford’s Acid Phosphate,’ 1 am
willing to say, that, having used it very consider-
ably, I can testify to its great value in functional
derangements of the secretory and nervous sys-
tems. CHA8. WOODHOUSE. M.D.
Indigestion in Pregnancy, malarial
Debility.
Springfield, 111., Sept. 10,1880.
I am much pleased with your Acid Phosphate,
and must say that it has done well in my hands in
indigestion, and also in that form which sometimes
occursIn pregnancy. 1 like it very much in .mala-
rial debility, and in administering quinine, and In
various other diseases. As long as your article
keeps good, I will continue to use it. IifWltct,
there is not a week passes that I do not prescribe
it . W. S. M’BURNIE, M.D.
Uterine Diseases.
Philadelphia, Jan. 30,1881.
Having used Hereford’s Acid Phosphate very
extensively in my practice, which consists mostly
of uterine diseases and disorders incident thereto,
it is with pleasure I attest my appreciation of its
usefulness. W. L. ATLEE, M.D.
Ulvcr and Kidney Derangements.
Boston, Mass., May 19,1880.
In regard to the Hereford's Acid Phosphate, I
have used it very extensively, and with the most
remarkable success. I give it in dyspepsia and in
all cases where there is derangement of the liver
and kidneys. With my patients it has agreed won-
derfully. O. G. GILLEY, M.D.
Sexual Weakness, Indigestion, &c.
Wabash, Ind., Dec. 36,1879.
I gave one bottle of Hereford's Phosphate in
case of nervous debility and weakness of sexual
organs, accompanied with indigestion ; patient
aged 48 years ; was much benefited. This man hud
for 15 years used intoxicants to excess, but during
the last two years has entirely abstained. Ho
thinks the Acid Phosphate is of much benefit to
him . C. S. ELLIS, M.D.
Gravel, Spermatorrhoea, &c.
St. Louis, Mo., March 34,1880.
I have used Hereford's Acid Phosphate in di-
seases of the urinary organs, such as gravel, and
particularly spermatorrhoea, with A ery good re-
sults, and think it a valuable remedy in those
diseases. I shall give it a further trial before
reporting at length.
T. H. NEWLAND, Jb., M.D.
tW" Pamphlets, with full information as to the
mderful curative properties of Horford’s Acid
losphate, furnished free on application to
BARRON, MOXHAM & CO., SYDNEY.
XST Parties ordering Acid Phosphate are par-
nilarly requested to cut out and forward. The
tlleiin advertisement.
Poor old William Chambers, the great pub-
lisher, who was made a baronet last week, is now
dead. Probably the excitement was too much lor
him, just as it was for W. J. Clarke, who fell down-
stairs almost immediately after his elevation. Not
that he was “ elevated ” In airy other sense.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal, “ Mankind” Vide p. 10.
Opera House, “Manola” ib.
In a valley where a brook
Its winding course in Summer took;
Where the note of the mountain bird.
As it slowly slakes its thirst, is heard,
And where the sparkling dew is seen
Upon the grass that’s doubly green;
And where the floweret lifts its head
Towards the heavens, a ruby red—
There happiness to all must seem
To reign eternally supreme I
For there no wight, in slim garb bedight,
With boots that are not watertight,
Has to go to the show on a jam wet night.
* * * *
Pouring—slucing—swishing At
about a quarter to 8 o’clock, on a wet night in
May, a person of distinguished mien, disguised in a
rather seedy ulster, and bearing in his hand an
umbrella ornamented with a tin shield, might have
been seen ploughing his way through the muddy
thoroughfare in the direction of the Theatre
Royal. Under the lamp-posts in the “ street that
is called Straight”—we mean Castlereagh—he
stopped and pondered; gazing sometimes up to the
murky heavens, and at others placing pensively
his forefinger upon his alabaster brow. This was
to let the world at large know that he was a critic;
and this was—ourselves.
jfi * *
In “Mankind” we had had some little
interest, prior to seeing it; not because we are
very much interested in melodrama at any time
but because we are a good deal interested in Mr.
Bland Holt, who has secured (as has been modestly
advertised) the right, and who has produced the
piece. Bland Holt is, independently of his per-
formance in this piece—and that is tunny enough
—a man of infinite humour. On the stage his parts
are always funny; but in real life he never laughs.
We have tried to make him laugh several times.
We have told him his mother-in-law was dead, and
that someone had killed John Lucas —all in one
breath;—but he never smiled. We then wedged
him into a corner and read him a Rum leader. He
didn’t smile then, either; but we wish he had. We
don’t know what his feelings were. But we have
a kind of dim reminiscence that he carries a No. 3
walking-stick.
* * *
Low comedians —genuine low comedians —
never smile. We have known a lot of them in our
time; and this, perhaps, accounts for the present
threatening attitude of our milkman. Bland, off
the stage, is a study. He wears his hair right on
his shoulders; and except for a report floating
ahout the town that he takes Turkish baths regu-
larly, you would swear he was a poet. When he is
on the stage—in no matter what piece (and this is
our solid experience) —the mouths of the pit are a
series of saucers, and the boxes ex pose more piano-
forte keys than could be got on time-payment (and
this sadly reminds us that wc are in arrears with
our “ Singer ”) for millions. Humorists are neai’ly
always dull in real life. Hood, for instance, was
dolefully dismal; Robson (a comedian) was a hope-
less hypochondriac; Leston was a misanthrope;
Thackeray (we are purposely jumbling up humor-
ists of every standing) was, m private life, a heart-
less cynic; and Toole—the comedian who makes
more money (bar Irving) than any actor on the
stage—resembles, when off the boards, a bankrupt
tradesman in a suicidal condition of despondency.
He has, when not convulsing audiences, but one
solitary joke. It is this. (Or it was, when we used
to “ japan his trotter-cases ” at a penny a pop: for
that’s now we came to know him! There s no—as
we have remarked before—“beastly pride ” about
us !) Toole takes a cab after the show. “ Where
to ? ” enquires the cabman. “ Shallaballagaracky
Square,” is the reply. “ Where t” gasps the Jehu.
“Shallaballagaracky Square,” replies tht come-
dian, severely. “Don’t know it, will reply the
cabman. “My good friend,” will then say Toole,
“you were never born for a cabman; you ought
to have gone into some other profession —been a
bishop, or a prime minister, or something in that
lowly line.” “Well, tell us once agin,” says the
man' “ Shallaballagarakerlybalinyaroostenfoosty-
sinkum-square,” replies Toole. And the man gene-
rally goes mad. One day, however, he got hold of
the wrong mark. “ Where to, sir ?” inquired the
driver, who knew him. “ Rumtifooflebanguptoo-
ralooral-street,” said Toole; “Do you know it?”
“Oh, yes, sir.” said the man, “I think so;” and,
having a fresh horse, he drove the comedian, on a
perishing night, half over the city, pretending to
look for the place. All this, by the way, lookslike
padding [Cert’nly.—Ed. B.], but it isn’t. It Is—
haw—an artistic introduction to a very— inartistic
pJay.
“ Mankind” is a piece which is quite as
good as “The World,” and “Youth;” in its motif;
tor the simple reason that there is no motif in any of
these plays. The best thing to call “Mankind” is
dramatic “guiver.” It is really, in truth, from a
literary point of view, fearful rot; but then it is
picturesque rot. Every dramatist has written bad
plays in his time; Even Shakespeare, who, in
‘‘Pericles,” outraged every poetic ethic—every
dramatic unity. But Paul Meritt and George
Conquest have, as may be easily surmised, done
worse than Shakespeare. They have perpetrated
a monster which is the very Frankenstein of melo-
drama. It is to be plainly seen that Conquest—
who, outside acrobatisra, is a mere stage-carpen-
ter, and a man who is utterly illiterate—has
evolved a series of scenic effects (which it is only
fair to admit are singularly striking), and that Mr.
Meritt has written the dialogue necessary to their
production. Well, the dialogue Mr. Meritt has
written, where it does not embody “ old friends ”
whom you mournfully salute, is painful in its
dulness.' There is, in the piece, no touch of pathos,
no stroke of sentiment: and the comic wheezes—
even those borrowed from the circus—are pain-
fully scattered. It is but fair to state, however,
that one or two of the jokes allotted to Barnaby
Bright, a costermonger played by Bland Holt,
brought down the house. His wife (Miss Annie
Taylor) exclaims, “Oh, Barnaby! She says
we are not married!” “Says we’re not
married,” replies Barnaby, indignantly, “Then
you just show her the twins.” There is
humour of the broadest in Barnaby’s retort;
but we will ask you what you think of this
circus wheeze which is allotted to Peter Sharpley
(Mr. B. N. Jones) ? “ I never open my mouth but
I’m bound to put my foot in it.” Our hair,
now, is white with age; and a continual attend-
ance at theatres, nigger-minstrel shows, and the
classic entertainments given at Young D (we
mean Hegarty’s) Academy of Music, has furrowed
our alabaster brims. We have heard a few jokes
in our time, and we heard this when we were
young and simple. Talking of jokes, indeed, we
think we have heard nearly every “ wheeze ” that
has ever been made; and that is what makes us so
floomy with the kids, and causes us to bite our
read-and-butter, at times, so savagely.
* * *
Such a play as “Mankind,” with a bad
cast, would he an infliction that would kill a man
on sight. But the cast is extraordinarily good. So
good that, although Mr. Dampier and Lily play in
it, and that, despite the cleverness of Alfred, we
had ominous anticipations of what used to crush
us in the “ kid ” dramas at the Gaiety, of a surfeit
of_one, both, or several of the “fairy actresses,”
it is, all through, an entertaining performance. In
the course of the piece — and early in it, we
got a start. Blanche Stammers, who plays
the heroine (poor thing ! —we mean the heroine)
said—“Ah, what matter for his villany. If he
would only give mo back my che-ild.” Then,
knowing that Dampier and Lily were iu the cast,
we grew so faint, that we asked the intrepid Moss if
he had anything “short ” handy, in order to nerve
ourselves for the coming ordeal. Moss (who by the
way, has been engaged by the management chiefly
because the length of his whiskers obviates the
necessity of their keeping a fire-escape), could
only offer Florida Water, and the water out of the
cloak-room “monkey”; so holding hard to the seat
of our fauteuil, we awaited, not without trepida-
tion, the issue of events.
• • •
But the mere reason of our being alive to
write this notice, will be a sufficient guarantee
that there was no kid business. None of Dampier’s
Eathetic wailing after his lost child, who used to
e smirking under a stage-bush (doesn’t that sound
like sage-brush ?) with her legs distinctly visible to
everybody but her distracted father! No, no!
“Mankind” was, in respect to this, a “square”
play. And the acting was extremely good. Mr.
Dampier played the part of a money-lender in
patched pants who is supposed to bo a hundred
years old. And he played it wonderfully well, on
the whole. So well, that his Groodge is entitled to
be ranked as a creation. But we must remind
him that when he makes a “ point” and gets a
laugh, he should be content. He should not re-
peat his phrase and prolong his business to lure
another simmer from the groundlings. This (and
everyone who has—as we have —seen the art istes of
th oComidii Fi'anqaise perform, will agree with us) is
hideous. And what is hideous—in the drama or in
a bonnet—should be avoided. Mr. Dampier, we
may remark, owes—even if it bo his only debt in
the world —one to the management. He comes on
to slow—very slow—music. Hem I
Bland Holt’s Burnaby Bright is an imper-
sonation which stands out distinctly. He is, he
lives, and breathes, on the stage, a costermonger.
Nothing that we could say—and we know that all
who have an analytic mind for the dramatic art
will agree with us—could over-express our appre-
ciation of this fine study. See his acting on board
the Calais boat. It is alone worth the mo [No!
Thunder! Let’s have a new one.—Bn. B.]
* * *
Mr. James Carden played a villain in a
black suit with much effect; and Mr. B. N. Jones
made a remarkably tine study of Peter Sharpley
(Groodge’s partner). Mr. Harry Jordan sustained
the part of “George Melton, a contractor;” and
for the first time since we have known him,
enacted the rSie of an “ old man.” And, as such,
he was a picturesque failure. This gentleman is
one of the noble band of dramatic incorriglbles.
He will not take advice. We have told him, and
other critics have told him, that to be jerky in
intonation and spasmodic in action is not to be
artistic. But still he is both. Consequently, he is
not artistic. Mr. St. Lawrence does what he can with
a part that is silly without being humorous (but
that’s not his fault!); and Mr. Charley Browne is
really peculiarly clever as Joshua Money trick, a
Showman. Mr. Herbert Flemming plays, as usual,
the “ masher ” of the piece, and was happily heroic
several times. But one of his lines made us squirm.
We took it down in the shortest hand we could
muster with the cloak-room pencil. It was this:—
“ I go to sea for pleasure.”
This statement was received with derision by the
pit, in which there were a number of man-of-war’s
men; for everybody who has ever sailed the
“ roaring main/’ knows the old adage;—
“ He that goes to sea for pleasure, will go to
hell for pastime.”
* * *
Miss Blanche Stammers played with all the
effect to be expected from a snivelling heroine;
but Miss Annie Taylor was comparatively ineffect-
ive as Arabella Bright—the wife of the “Coster.”
Lily Dampier acted with much spirit the part of
“ Showman’s assistant,” who, of course, was some-
body else’s che-ild; and Miss Julia Merton was
barely amusing as a lodging-house keeper. The
scenery is very great indeed; and the piece we
think will go on for a long while.
* * * *
One reason Joe Goodman, in his evidence,
gave for his dismissal by Majeroni, was that Signor
considered him to bo “too much the gentleman.”
If this be the case, it will go a long way towards
excusing, in our eyes, the hideous slang, ludicrous
strut, and empty vanity of so many of the poor
things who either are performers, pure and simple,
or who hang on the skirts of the dramatic profes-
sion. We know Joseph well; and. though we have
always found him to bo a shrewd, steady, and well-
behaved young man, he has never impressed us as
being of too aristocratic a nature to permit him to
duly perform the duties of a theatrical agent!
There are agents and agents. Some are mere
advance bill-posters and professional liars—men
who lie so transparently, that, instead of benefiting
any show, they would keep money away from a
Patti concert. Others are mere lackeys. Of these
wo have known many—poor creatures !—whose
duties wore to hand “stars” into jingling cai-
riages, carry hand-bags, carve at supper, go out for
porter, and, in the interval (that a course of per-
sistent, gross, and contemptible flattery allowed),
to worry pressmen to write notices calculated to
bring themselves into contempt, and their papers
into derision. All this is mean and paltry,
of course, but it is the living of these peo-
ple; and there are other trades which we could cite
as being infinitely less alluring. We don’t think
much of a parson, for instance, who, knowing that
his congregation is to the last extent “ giddy,”
avoids all reference to anything unpleasant, and
flatters them for the sake of their half-crowns and
shillings. We should not like to be a theatrical
agent, but we most certainly would prefer to be
that even, to occupying the position of the church
gentleman we have described. It Is plain, from
the evidence in the Goodman-Majeroni case, that
an agent is not expected to be a gentleman. And
to do him justice, he, as a rule, admirably answers
managerial expectations. With, in a theatre, say, a
lessee, a sub-lessee, an impresario with a star, an
acting manager, a manager, a treasurer, a secre-
tary, and heaven knows what besides, what can an
“ agent” be expected to do but those things which
none of the others care to perform ? The mean-
ness of some stars, and especially small stars, is
proverbial: but if anything exceeds their mean-
ness more than their vanity, it is their delight in
showing the unfortunate “agent” that they are
clothed in a little brief authority. With Mr. Good-
man’s differences with the Polks and Majeroni
(who are charming people so far as we know), we
have nothing to do. Our business was with agents
and employers as a body; and we have finished
our business,
* * * *
A certain burnt-corkis t iu oue of the colo-
nies had a benefit. Then he left in a hurry.
And he left in such a hurry, that he forgot to take
his wife. But he didn’t forget to take her clothes.
* * ♦ *
The eminent Jimmy MacMahon seems to
have shelved his idea of bringing Romeo over here
with Irving’s mise en scene, but Kyrle Bollew is to
come to Australia, it seems, and electrify us. All
right; we don’t mind. It is not generally known,
that reminds us, that Mr. K. Bellow, who is a son
of the late reverend elocutionist, Is married to Miss
Eugriiie Legrand, who was, at one time, “Mrs
Fairclough,” but who is now Mrs. Somebody else.
They were wedded on Friday morning, and, at
eleven the next day—it was in Melbourne—Eugenio
cleared out. There were various rumours at the
time about the affair, but none were confirmed.
Some said ’twas on the bridal night Fairclough came
and played Blondel’s serenade under the nuptial-
chamber window on a concertina; others that a lot
of fellows got Kyrle mellow and that Eugenio
subsequently found herself in company with a
Romeo in full fig which had been borrowed from
the wax-works. Anyhow, next day away she
flitted, sending Kyrle a note later in the day to for-
ward by bearer a flannel dressing-gown and an im-
prover which she had left behind in the hurry of
her flight. Perhaps when Kyrle comes he will tell
us all about it.
* * * *
Mr. H. Vincent (who left by the Zealandia
for England via ’Frisco—lucky man. Vincent—got
a private income)—told us that he had received a
note from Fred. Marshall, announcing Fred’s in-
tention of re-visiting Australia in throe months;
but he did not tell us, because he did not know,
that Mr. George Tithcradge, who, with a gay-
humour that is all his own, now announces himself
as “ the young Australian Comedian,” is once more
shortly to bo wafted to these hospitable shores.
The only actors we know of who do not seem to be
coming back are J. B. Howe and Fred. Mervin.
J. B. is playing now in James Willing’s “The
Ruling Passion, at the Standard, and is taken up
in a balloon, is wetted in a shower, is tortured in a
madhouse, and, we are sorry to say, not finally
killed. Perhaps the glory of doing that is reserved
to our own dear city which sits smiling on the sea.
Fred. Mervin is at the Strand, but—well, Fred,
isn’t playing leading parts just now.
Mr. F. W. Haddon.
It is not possible for a man to have tilled the
position of Editor of a first-rate paper like
The Argus, so long as Mr. J. W. Haddon
has filled that post, with credit, unless
there be something first-rate about the
man himself. Mr. Haddon, whose portrait,
from a photo, by Tuttle and Co,, we give
to-day, has steered the Argus with great
skill and energy since he took charge of the
editorial department. He edits with his
head, instead of attempting to lift the paper
he conducts with his pen. That is to say,
Mr. Haddon is a guiding editor more than a
writing editor. But he can write well.
When, he followed Mr. Berry’s embassy to
Loudon, the letters he contributed to the
Times, with the view of counteracting the
purposes of Messrs. Berry and Pearson,
were nervous and forcible. Under his guid-
ance, fixe Argus is still head and shoulders
above any other Australian daily, in a
literary sense; although as a political organ
its great rival, the Age, begins to overtop it.
The verve of the leading columns, and the
bright perspicacity of the news items ; the
character of the contributed matter from
Europe, and of the literary essays and
so on, prove that a system of selection of
men and matter exists in the establishment
unrivalled in Australia. To the credit of
this Mr. Haddon is fairly entitled. Origin-
ally educated with a view to entering the
legal profession, Mr. Haddon diverged to
statistical studies, and after honourable ser-
vice as Assistant-Secretary of the London
Statistical Society, came to Australia, in
1863, as Private Secretary to the late Mr.
Wilson, one of the proprietors of the Argus.
The sagacity of the counsel he gave, at a
time when the editorial arrangements were
a source of much difficulty to Mr, Wilson,
suggested to that gentleman the idea of try-
ing Mr. Haddon himself as Editor. The ex-
periment was commenced iu 1867. It has
lasted till now. More need not be said.


PEPPER AND SALT.
This is n grisly grotesquerie. It was in a
N.8.W. up-country town, The local undertaker’s
son had come of age, and the old man had deter-
mined that the occasion should be celebrated with
fitting solemnity. Invitations wore issued to all of
his customers. They came, to the number of
seventy-six, and then the tun began. Hie hearse,
thinly disguised as a van, was brought around, and
a portion of the party got in. The others followed
in the mourning-coaches—which, with their
changed appearance, looked like crosses between a
circus-car and a tumbril for conveying criminals
to the gallows. As they crawled merrily along,
the giver of the feast related several amusing
anecdotes about people whom he had met with in
the course of his professional experience. Many
and many a time he had driven out on that same
road with the uncle ot this or the aunt of that, and
they had never opened their mouths from the start
of the Journey to the finish. Such grim waggery
kept the hearse in a roar until the gay party came
to where two roads met. Then the horses, through
old custom, made a dead set for the one that led to
the graveyard. The guests looked at the under-
taker and the undertaker looked at them, and
then, turning round to his son, indicated by various
mysterious nods those who he reckoned would
go up that road under his care before the year was
out. This little episode gave just the exact shade
of gloom to the trip to make it in keeping with the
sombre character of the occasion. At dusk, when
the light ot day was slowly dying out, the revel-
lers returned. A feast had been spread for
thorn in a large marquee erected close to the
coffin-shed. There was a mouldy smell ot mor-
tality in the air, but this was somewhat counter-
acted by the hashy odour of a resurrection
pie and a dish of requiem sausages which steamed
on the middle of the table, which, of course,
“groaned under the weight of the good things
provided.” One or two superstitious persons,
however, said that the groan sounded like the
muffled moan of all the dead who had been
stretched out on those planks tor years past.
Then the undertaker made a speech, in which he
remarked that he had always tried to do his best
for his customers, and that none of them had ever
complained, and that all present would have to
die some day, and that, thank heaven, business
was getting brisker every week. True, there had
not been any fever to brag of, but the ineaslo-
soason had been pretty good; and though they had
not the same opportunities as seaport towns tor
getting a windfall ot small-pox, yet he did pretty
well on odd cases of dropsy and spontaneous com-
bustion. Providence had been kind enough, too,
to give him a fair “ throw-in” in the way of acci-
dents; so, taking one thing with another, he had
no cause to complain. This speech was received
with gloomy cheers, and then three bowls, one
containing clean water, another dirty water, and
another clay, were put upon the table, ana the
guests wore blindfolded and brought in one bj
one to see who would die before the year was out.
Twenty-five dipped their
hands into the bowl of clay.
This was a famous percen-
tage, and the undertaker’s
heart was glad within him.
After a number of similarly
cheerful games, the Dead
March was played, and the
party broke up at the hour
when churchyards yawn, and
graves give up their dead.
• •
It has been our rule,
and one which we have rea-
son to believe, has found
much favor with the general
public, and (which is of more
importance !) with the gene-
ral clergy, to give deceased
persons a respectful send-off
as soon after the Shying—we
mean shining—cherry-casket
has been lowered into the
vault by which (as somebody
always sings next day in the
Evening News’ advertise-
ment) “the sad sea mur-
murs.” Our other contem-
poraries do this sometimes,
also; but lacking our respect-
ful manner, and our light-
ness of touch, occasionally,
wo grieve to state, deviate
into a style which closely
borders upon the flippant.
We have noticed, and not
without a feeling of painful
surprise, that in alluding to
the late Mr. Joseph Brady,
many newspapers, not con-
tent with omitting the polite
prefix, allude to the late
member of the Brotherhood
as “Joe Brady.” Without
canvassing Mr. Brady's social
qualifications or intellectual
merits, we think we may
fairly take exception to this
post-mortem flippancy, on
general grounds. That Mr. Brady, when in the flesh,
did much to distinguish him cannot be questioned.
For instance, ins careful act in wiping his knife on
the grass after the little Burke and Cavendish
affair, would not have been unworthy of
Charles the Ninth. There is a juiciness, too,
about the manner in which he operated
on Lord C., which Nero would not have scorned
to envy. And yet after all this—Joe—simple
“ Joe ” Brady! And it is, we may remark, to gentle-
men of the late Mr. B.’sproclivitiesthat the news-
sheets are principally indebted for their extra
circulation. But we, personally, are not so; there-
fore our little respectful tribute to the memory of
Joseph, has at least (as must be seen) the merit of
disinterestedness. Nor has this article been in-
spired by Mr. Brady’s relations. Several gentlemen
whose teeth were ornamented with curls of a flow-
ing nature have called upon us to request an
expression of our sympathy in the leading columns;
but as none of these interviews have been graced
by either a case of lemons or a side of bacon, we
resolved to editorially uphold the purity of the
Press, and—much as we liked the subject—keep the
late J. Brady, Esquire, from out of our front page.
And we have done so; yet we vouchsafe his
memory with pleasure this little tribute. Should
Joseph’ feel gratified with this notice, perhaps he
will, through a friend, have the kindness to let us
know. And as we are above taking tip—even to
advocate so pleasant a cause—let his messenger by
no means bring with him any more than 1 cwt. of
flour and a pair of No.-8 shoes.
* * *
They say that “love levels all;” but how
about Eton ? Brinley Richards writes that when
ho was there the Marquis of Blandford came to
him one morning tearfully entreating the loan of
4d. to buy a couple of red herrings tor the break-
fast of a tirst-torm boy (son of a poor parson)
whoso “fag ” he was; and that the Marquis of Water-
ford used to be regularly kicked by his master (a
tailor’s son) if he did not cook the eggs and bacon
properly. If public school life existed here, what
could one not fancy ! Alfred’s Kommisincr, for
instance, having liver fried for him by Charles
Roberts, C.M.G.; the gifted editor of Sydney
Punch stewing cocks’ heads tor a member of our
staff; Joe Eckford cleaning (but this is too pre-
posterous!) Dr. Badham’s boots. It’s lucky, on the
whole, there is no Eton hero. Even taking our
gilded aristocracy, our luminous legislature, it
don’t quite seem to be “ levelling” that is wanted.
Eh ?
* * *
We regret—being loyal subjects—that the
family pride of H.R.H. the Duke of Edinburgh,
and the intrepidity of Lord Wolseley, should have
induced them to assist at the coronation of the
Emperor of several of the Russias. This impressive
and holy ceremony is to take place on the 37th
instant; therefore, before the next issue of this
journal can paralyse Parramatta or delight Dubbo,
there will, in all probability, be a fall in dynamite.
The present situation, therefore, we view with
alarm. We wouldn’t care, for instance, if Lord
Napier, of Magdala, were going, or Sir Frederick
Roberts, or the Du ke of Welllngton (but he’s dead!);
but we view, with alarm, the exodus from Great
Britain of both our greatest general and our most
Intrepid admiral. We might have spared Lord
i Wolseley; we might, had fate overcome him, have
after a wrestle with grief barely survived. But
looking the thing in the face, the thoughts of what
may possibly occur to the Duke of Edinburgh, put
us in Slough of Despond. The only grain of com-
fort that is wafted towards us consists in our belief
that, shortly after the ceremony, we shall get a
grain of H.R.H. wafted towards us here. But, ir-
respective even of this, in all our agony and
tribulation, this silver cloud likewise beams on the
horizon. The gallant Field-Marshal of England (and
“Feld” of Germany) is not going. In the same
manner that he burned to go, but didn’t go, to
wrestle wiih the furious army in Egypt, so he burns
to go, but will not go, to the interesting ceremonial
of Alexander’s coronation. This, all loyal subjects
(and especially ourselves, who are extra-loyal) will
rejoice at. But (and this is an affecting thing) our
joy in this delightful instance is capped by the
jubilation attending another circumstance. Colonel
H.R.H. Prince Leopold, Duke of Albany, is not
going either. We don’t know why, but he is not.
He will, therefore, we trust, be preserveu to the
nation to lead his regiment to the deadly breach in
the event ot the Britannic shores being invaded
by the Liberian Lemonades. Yes ; to think that
this intrepid commander is not going to risk his
valiant person at the forthcoming distribution of
Alexander, is most satisfactory, ft Is satisfactory,
for several reasons. Do you see, there are many of
us who hold property in England, and the thought
of an increase of taxes would affright us ! Sup-
posing Colonel the Duke of Albany considered it
a part of his duty to go, the nation would be pro-
bably bereft of considerable spondulix. The
Prince’s suite, when he travels, must necessarily
be extensive. Besides the man who works at the
spine-crank daily, there is the galvanic-equerry,
and the electrieian-in-ordinary. These, too, in
addition to the Master-of-the-Horseradish and the
Husher-in-ordinary, whose duties, as may be sur-
mised, are nocturnal. The gallant Colonel (even
on the battle-field) is ordered by his physicians to
take the milk ot one cow—that only when the
lacteal fluid of asses be not procurable. The royal
officer, it seems, was reared on the milk of the
latter, as, indeed, as every Londoner knows, are
most of the scions of the aristocracy. Walk about
Grosvenor, Euston, and Belgrave Squares, when
the “ hand of the dial” is on the prick of either 9
a.m. or 6 p.m., and you will see scores of asses
being driven up to groat mansions, and milked
there under the critical eyes of patriarchal but-
lers. Asses’ milk is stated to be the most nourishing
food in the world. But there arc drawbacks to every
thing. That’s why the noble aristocrats who favor iis
with visits appear almost solely to consist of large
eye-glasses, pointed boots, and low foreheads with
a lamb’s fry at the back of them. Baron Wolseley
and Prince Alfred only representing Great Britain
at the coronation of Alick, wo can breathe again.
Wo can feel that there are a few warriors—
“Bertie,” “Loo,” and “ Uncle George"—still left
to defend the chalk cliffs of Old England. Under
these cheerful circumstances, any uneasiness that
we may have experienced has vanished ; and we
almost feel that we could go to sleep without the
customary night-light.
* + *
NEAR THE STAGE DOOR.
It was his craze
To throw bouquets
To fays.
And toss those lightsome things,
Well —half-hoop diamond rings—
And, when the show was done, you know,
He’d go
And wait, we’ll state,
Far from the gas lamp’s glow,
And, when she came right through,
He’d whisper, “How de do?
You are, aw, really—’pon my soul, you know.
“ We’ll drive, don’t doubt,
A pair of ponies out;
And—eh f—Isay! why, what are you about?
“Your ‘mother!’— 1 ‘Church I’—oh, come, girl!—
hang such things I
You must oe giddy; for you took my rings! ”
“ What! didn’t know me?
Oh, come, blow me!
That’s too thin!
Me, with my whiskers, and
My tracts of land.
And tons of ‘ tin ’ I
“ ‘ A lady born, you will
A lady remain still ’—
That’s chaff!
A ballet girl! not bad!!!
The world is going mad—
I laugh!”
A hand upraised and flashing.
And upon the pavement crashing.
Fall some gems bright—
Then, with bow polite
“ Good night.”
* * *
Recently, when a proposal was ironically
made in the English Parliament by Mr. Labou-
chere, that a reward be offered by the Home
Secretary for the apprehension of the miscreants
who made the attack on Lady Florence Dixie, the
proposal was received with screams of laughter.
It is now a recognised fact that Lady F. is “sub-
ject to hallucinations;” or, to use a term that has
endeared itself to the clergy of all denominations
here, “a little bit off her kadoova.” Lady
Florence’s butler saw a yellow gig but no women
in green—a soldier saw the stune vehicle as he was
walking with his girl—and an Eton tutor who was
“picking primroses” saw Lady Dixie’s dog play-
ing with another dog. No one could corroborate
Lady D.’s statement but her dog, and he is dis-
creetly silent. But, though Sir William Harcourt
contemptuously declines to offer a reward, after
having had the case freely sifted, a lot of the Lon-
don “society” papers teem with “slobber” on
the subject, written in a spirit that would not dis-
grace a ball sketch of Mortimer Franklyn’s, written
behind the larder-door, “A General in H.M. Ser-
vice" is especially amusing. He admits being
an “old soldier,” but he must bo very old indeed
to judge by his screed in Vanity Fair. The fol-
lowing passages will let the reader generally judge
of his soldierly style: “ Sir, I read with much plea-
sure the remarks and letter in Vanity Fair of
last week on the above brutal outrage perpetrated
on a lady of ancient lineage and undoubted nobility
of character. The calm dignity [MI] of Lady
Florence in this moment when her honour is
attacked and her word doubted is but worthy of
her heroic heart. There are many theories ad-
vanced in reference to this cowardly attempt. . .
. . I have never before felt so ashamed of Eng-
land and Englishmen as when the laughter of
the House ot Commons turned into ridicule
one of the vilest attempts that has ever been
made against a noble and gifted woman . . . .”
There are a few pages of this sort of thing, written
doubtless by other equally aged general officers, or
by snuffy Field-Marshals of the b.'fth-chair and
warming-pan order. In the matter of comments,
the greater part of the daily London press merely
Indulges in vague generalities, or is demurely
silent. Some papers, however, consider that her
ladyship is the victim of an hallucination. We
think so, several. We have, ourselves, on some
few occasions, boon subject to a similar kind of
thing. On the Prince of Wales’s Birthday, for
instance, wo had, shortly after 13 p.m., a serious
quarrel in our street, the affair culminating in a
severe conflict, in which wo suffered severely. A
policeman passing, wo instantly gave our assailant
in charge ; but the man of law and order merely
laughed and passed on. Two davs afterwards we
were summoned for damaging a Corporation lamp-
post. In a like manner, a well-known learned
legislator reported that some fiend in human form
had blown up the staircase leading to the smoking-
room, with a view of injuring hon. members. But
nothing could make him believe he had fallen from
the landing to the lobby under the influence of a
dyspeptic attack. So you see that Lady Florence’s
vision of the women in green, the red soldier,
and the yellow gig, is by no means a solitary in-
stance of a frenzied fancy. And wo don’t wonder
that she is very angry with the cowardly miscreants
whom she considers attacked her. We were very
angry with the lamp-post.
•
We see a lot of things during the week besides
our creditors. And those we never pretend to
see; hut the trouble is they pretend to see us.
Mixing, as we do, in every phase of society; and
flitting, as we flit, from vortex to vortex, now
contemplating the worrukin man handling the
familiar pewter; now basking in the lambent
smiles of a countess of Coogee, and, lying at her
feet, inhale the odoriferous ozone which is wafted
in fairy zephyrs towards us from the strand of the
mighty Pacific —[What is this?— Ed. B.J — we
m lice as the sand of time filters down grain by
grain, a not uncompleto study of human nature.
. . . Oh, hang the turgid style! Let’s brighten
up into something lively. The foregoing, ravenous
reader, is padding, pur et simple. Now you shall
have the subject. Start, ladies ! Now, settle your
silken skirts, and look unconcerned, for the topic
is—The Mashers. The verb “to mash” is active;
but so is not altogether the Masher. He is
generally languid; but nevertheless, at times,
active in his languor. He is a flower that blooms—
but not unseen. He is to be beheld in superlative
splendour on hotel balconies, and in hotel bars. As
there are, according to Sheridan, “ the puff collu-
sive,” “the puff oblique,” and the “puff direct,”
so there is the masher who “travels on it,” and
the masher who “ holds it,” and the masher whose
mashing is born of senility. Those who “ travel on
it” flourish chiefly in theatrical hostelries, where
they “whisper” the barmaid for (we quote their
vernacular) “boozes” when there are persons in
the bar, and “mug” her when there are not.
These gentlemen are conspicuous for hair cut in
serai-circles over low foreheads, and for bell-
bottomed trousers, and for aluminium watch-
chains. They are of the stage, stagey; and their
presence is Immediately recognised by an aromatic
effluvium of hair-oil. To sketch one is to sketch
all. They are, generally, small actors, or smaller
nigger-minstrel corner-men, and not unfrequently
comic vocalists who are never comic. They mash
small things, it is true; but a great many or them.
Barmaids, school-girls, tobacco-twisters, and seam-
stresses. They are not above taking anything.
They will accept any article (strictly as a tribute of
love and admiration!), from a scholar’s hoop-stick
to a Hebe’s keeper. The masher who “ holds it ”
blooms in other gardens. He is to be semi at what
is known in the lyrical language of the land as
“ Kafes,” in George-street, et ailleurs at all hours.
The barmaids he “mashes” are of a superior
quality, and he mingles the bestowal of his smiles
with the jewels of Orient. At night he will be
seen at theatres in which are being represented
“ leg pieces.” There, in all the glories of a gorgeous
shirt-front and a private box, he will lower down
on the stage huge baskets of flowers, and the
attention he causes appears to afford him unlimited
Eleasure. But, curious as it is to state, it is
y no means the rule that the mashers who “ hold
it” are successful. We know a pronounced masher
of this city who, during the abnormally long run
of a piece here, not only sent his mash round
flowers and champagne every night, but threw
her bouquets ana diamonds’ continually. Yet
(possibly having something better in hand) it so
transpired that he never met her. He used to
make appointments, and keep them. She used to
make appointments, too, and keep them—with
somebody else. But the most complete picture of
all is the “ old boy” masher. He is usually a re-
tired civil servant or a superannuated bank clerk.
He is very slow, and very stiff—very firm, and
very polite; and he mashes on the cautious and
deliberate principle. When addressing actresses
by letter, he calls them “.fair lady;” and to bar-
maids and others he is paternally tender. He is
rather a dangerous masher, this; for his blood is
sluggish, and he has time, patieuce (a valuable
thing in these cases), and money, all at his dis-
posal. Ho is artful, too—anticipating little wishes
of his mashes, and gradually arranging that they
shall get used to, and come to look for, his visits.
The senile masher can be seen in a very finely pre-
served condition at the various cafii-restaurants,
and a contemplation of him will form an amusing
study. And, like most things that are amusing-
like our little pink selves, for instance—he can be
seen for sixpence. Go and look at him.
♦ * *
The editor of a Louth paper has been getting
married. We don’t want to be hard on him for this,
for in our weak moments we have done the same
thing on several occasions; but he allows his paper
to show traces of the recent ceremony. In a word,
the “ missus” has gone in for writing “ copy,” and,
what is more, the “copy” has got into the paper.
She relates her adventure# on board ship and
Iourney from Auckland to Sydney; and or Lord
jennox, who was on board, she writes with the
pleasant freedom of one who is above kow-towing
to the aristocracy. “ Ho looked,” she said, “just
like any other man, only uglier. He was tall, to be
sure, but so thin and dried-up looking, he gave one
the impression that he lived on dried herrings: his
hair was sandy, and his eyes—well, we never had
the chance of discovering what colour they were,
forhealways woreglasses; and take him altogether
ho looked as uninteresting as possible. Still, he made
himself passably agreeable to everyone, and was so
condescending on one occasion ns to give up his
own particular chair for my benefit; may be, if he
had boon good-looking, he would not have been
halt so nice ns he was.’ This is not half bad; but
yet wo don’t, somehow, envy that editor. Do you
see, when back in Cobar, she will start on
writing instead of on washing, and the
quantity of her “ copy ” will seriously interfere
with the quality of the old man’s hash. We had a
wife once who wrote “copy.” And, while she wrote,
we starved. It was our life or hers, so . In n
rustic nook, far from here, the enquiring traveller
can read, on a patent tombstone, the following in-
scription:—
Lightly stop, O, passing bard;
Stop this lowly grave beside;
For here, in this quiet churchyard,
Lies a once much-cherished’bride.
She wrote “ copy,” and—she died.'
* * *
The Prince of Wales is considerably in it.
Besides possessing a Field Marshal’s baton, the
degree of a Doc tor of Civil Laws (!!!) and a cart-
load of other distinctions, he has now a railway
carriage. Th is is 50 feet long, and upholstered with
old gold satin. It contains saloon, study (!!), two
bedrooms, etc. In this car the Prince travels on
tiie Continong, with satisfaction to himself and to
the everlasting joy of the companies over whose
lucky lines it passes. Hut, gorgeous as this all
seems, it is nothing to the oar that Parkes chose
for his especial use at the time ho ruled the roust
and bossed the boiled. This car which is now
on its way hither from Troy, U.S.A., is one such ns
only a fine nature and an {esthetic brain could
evolve. The ceiling is of onyx, deeply cut
with the Parkes crest and
monogram; and the jtsper
panellings are embellished
with pictures representing
the demesne of Fau Icon-
bridge, with the tenantry
lying on his side in the fore-
ground. The bed is,especially,
a work of art—at night a
superb couch, and by day
convertible into several
equally luxurious articles of
furniture; all of which,
bear in a conspicuous place
upon them the armorial bear-
ings of the Star of Stoneleigh.
We don’t believe, though,
that car will arrive. Not
t ait they wouldn’t send it;
out because it would break
the old man’s heart to see
George Reid stretched out
noon the divan, and Barton
w h his legs upon the seat,
i. 11 c worse than al I this would
be a fleeting vision, as the
c rriage passed his estate, of
M’Elhone smoking at the
v inflow, and Stuart eating
apples on the stop.
David Buchanan’s obsti-
nacy or obtuseness landed
him in a dilemma such as no
other member has been in
here. Ho would persist in
disobeying the ruling of the
Speaker, with the result that
lie was “named” from the
chair as having been guilty
of conduct which had vexa-
li iiislv interfered with the
orderly conduct of business.
I lad he not immediately spo-
il gised In unqualified terms
he would, in all probability,
have been consigned to the
“coal hole” for a few days
to reflect on his inordiinate
folly.
When the money-market gets tight, many
speculators go “ on the spree.”
Education in Ireland must be on the in-
crease, as there are so many informers there now.
Yeast, when its force can be applied, is an
almost irresistible blasting agent. A most valu-
able idea for utilisation in the matter of the bread
supplied to walking whisky-sinks, or in the buns
consumed by religious humbugs at “ tent-feasts ”
and “anniversaries.”
ANOTHER VERSION.
Quoth Pat: “ What manes this C.M.G.
That does such spalpeens suit ?
Hurroo! it stands, bedad, I see.
For ‘ Cussed Mane Galoot!’ ”
The Melbourne Club charges its members
10 per cent, per month on all accounts unsettled
at the end of each month—only 130 per cent, per
annum. This must be pretty rough on the man
who borrows money from the usurers to keep him
going at the club. It is alleged that a Queensland
member who, on going away, forgot to pay for a
glass of brandy and soda, found on his return that
the bill had mounted up to 18s.
Hurroo ! Here’s the jury of four right to
the fore again. In the recent libel action at Rock-
hampton, Sub-inspector Ahern v. Central
Queensland Times, the palladium of British
liberty representatives declared after the plaintiff’s
evidence was taken that they didn’t wish to hear
the defence at all, as they had already made up
their minds ! His Honor remarked that they
might have had the courtesy to let him sum up;
but they merely sat and grinned like a lot of baked
hyenas, and so the Sub-inspector scooped in his
full verdict of £500. This is what is facetiously
known as British justice.
Mr. Reid’s measure of Sir Henry Parkes:—
“ The honourable member never does anything
without an object, and when he seems to be actu-
ated by the purest of motives there is a cold calcu-
lating design pervading everyone of his most
fervid public utterances, and, in this instance, I
can see that the deliberate intention of the honour-
able member is to set our Irish fellow-colonists
and the rest of the community by the ears if he can
only get into office by doing so.
The London correspondent of the Bris-
bane Courier (best remembrances to you, genial
“ Red Spinner”) has a lot more sense than the S. M.
Herald’s man. Here’s how the former writes
about the prevailing anti-Irish mania, which
entered so completely into his Herald brother’s
letters “ The fact is we are, in our present
mood, ready to assume anything against Ireland
and the Irish. We want no prompting to jump at
conclusions. Just as the ex parte confessions of
Carey were at once accepted as proven truth, so
the explosion in Parliament-street, and the alleged
attack on Lady Florence Dixie, are in some
quarters accepted out of hand as the deeds of
Irishmen.”
HOW SHE LOVED HIM!
“Angelina, idol of my soul,” he cried passionately, “before
we part will you not give me a ringlet of your golden tresses
that. I may wear it in my bosom as a—something that—a sort
of token, you know, of your love!”
She placed her entire coif at his disposal.


BRIEF MENTION.
Bradlaugh v. bad law.
Inscription for the Mort Memorial Statue,
to be unveiled 9th June, “ Mort lives.”
“D’ye see that in the paper? One man gets
ten years for ill-treating a horse: another only three
months for ill-treating achild ? Nonsense, not
the same Judge ?” “ Oh yes, the same Judge, but
not the same breakfast.”
When a certain eminent convict, for whose
release from prison heaven and earth are just now
being moved, arrived in prison after his convic-
tion, he conformed to the gaol rules with most
astonishing celerity. "Ha!" observed the lynx-
eyed Governor—“ that gentleman has in an
English gaol before now.”
How is it that when usurers, bookmakers,
and such people get frightened of exposure and
punishment they always offer to subscribe to some
charity ? Can it be that that is the very last thing
they would think of doing under ordinary circum-
stances ?
Up South (Murrumbidgee) two members of
the “foorce” arrested a man, and started to bring
him into town. Enroute both policemen got drunk,
and were driven on by the arrested, who landed
them safely at, but not in, the lockup. And yet
the prisoner hasn’t been promoted.
At a recent up-country District Court,
the crier insisted on saying while administering the
oath, “So help my God” instead of “So help me,
God.” Then Judge Murray wrote this on a slip of
paper and handed it to the erring official; “ Please
say ‘ So help me, God ’ Don't sav ‘ So help my God ’
as if each witness had a personal god of his own.”
“ It seems like the hold times,” remarked a
publican’s widow who had come to live over oppo-
site Cockatoo, where they are constructing a new
dock. “Why?” asked a friend.” “ Because they
are perpetually blasting," replied the widow.
“ Poor Michael, avick.”
At East Sydney election, M‘Elhone getting
infuriated with the sarcasm of Sir Blank Blank,
who was on the hustings, said to Copeland, that he
would “ hammer the life out of ,” etc.* Un-
necessary this. For was not the object of his fury
already a “belted knight?”
At a recent Melbourne inquest, one Mrs.
M'Finpigan was asked her occupation, to which
she replied: “Yerra, shure, we rints a little pre-
mises, and being told that that wasn’t a sufficient
answer, she continued: “ Well, thin, av y’ wants t’
know so moighty perticulur, it’s jist nixt doohr to
where owld Nicholson used t’ live—Gad rist his
sowl;—now will that do for ye?” Which reminds
one of the Bathurst-street wall-polisher who, when
asked what he did for a living, replied: “ Me! Oh,
my wife wurrks a soain’ meshane, yer “ worchip.”
The Victorian crew, who gave ours such
a bill-poster’s-pastlng, stayed, when here, at
Jordan’s Hotel, Kyde, and the Hum said “ never
allowed any intrusion on their privacy when at
meals.” In this resolution were probably embo-
died the elements (or ingredients) of success. A
certain hon. gentleman, we hear, adopts a similar
article in the social code ; and, goodness knows, he
is successful enough I The only man he ever in-
vited (it is reported) to transact business with him
during feeding-time, was his lawyer. And he had
to enter sideways. His capstan-bar was an un-
usually big one.f
We read that the rogues of the community
will be represented at Amsterdam. Darlinghurstf
sends rants, Which reminds us that many of the
mats made in our big prison bear on them the word
“ Salve” (i.e. welcome) worked in with red fibre. It
was the Darlinghurst prisoners who worked the
inscription of “welcome” (togaol?) displayed over
the main entrance to the Sydney International
Exhibition. A similar inscription appeared at
the Crystal Palace in 1831, when Holloway, of pills
and ointment fame, offered to pay £5000 for the
privilege of making it read “ Holloway’s Salve."
We learn that the Queen’s bounty was
recently distributed at Windsor. It is called the
“ Royal Maundy,” but strange to say it is usually
given away on a Thursday. There are purses con-
taining as many pence as the Queen is years old,
purses containing a sovereign each, and sums
ranging from £1 5s to £3 15s. At one time the
Royal Maundy used to consist of beef, tripe, etc.
There were never any brains in connection with it,
though. Otherwise possibly that great warrior, the
Duke of Cambridge, would have held out his plate.
Here is the newest feature of the Post
Office carvings affair. Signor Sani, it now turns
out, had portraits “officially” given him from
which he was to work to perpetuate in stone the
likenesses of “the little wooden-headed somebodies
of our time.” “ That there girl,” observed one of
the genus nonentity, the other day, “that there
girl handin’ round the pie to the policeman is our
Joolyer. It’s gettin’ more like her every day.”
“Our Joolyer’’has therefore a countenance possess-
ing English, French, German, ancient Grecian, and
modern Kanaka characteristics, with a touch of
the Irish thrown in.
We have just got this. A gentleman dis-
tinguished for his acumen in the critical realms of
art, music, science, and the drama (who formerly
represented the Wollombi in Parliament), was the
other day looking over a volume of photos, from
the works of the old masters, having previously
been inspecting a number of puzzle-pictures,
whereon a legend requests you to “ find the man,
or the lion,” as the case may be. At last he came
to a semi-nude figure, recumbent, “reading in a
book.” He admired this greatly, and with some
difficulty made out the following:—“The Penitent
Magdalen, by Correggio.” Then he took it to the
light, held it slanting, upside down, down side up,
side wavs, and finally said: “ But I’ll be blowed if I
can find Correggio!’
He was a bloated squattah residing in the
Kennedy district (Q.), and he had just been created
a J.P. by the fir oe of Macrossan. He delayed not
in getting sworn in, and returned to his station
just in time to see two of his men settling a trifling
dispute in the good old-fashioned stylo in the stock-
yard. Ho promptly Issued summonses to the
delinquents, and next morning found him arrayol
in a black dress suit, seated at a table covered with
big books, in the best room the humpy boasted.
The jackaroo storekeeper being duly installed
clerk of the court, the case was tried with the
solemnity of an inquest, and the verdict was guilty
of assault and battery—especially battery. Both
men were dismissed with a caution.
“ Yes,” said Happy Eliza, at the Salvation
Army meeting, “look at me,and my husband; wo
are both saved. A short time ago we was drunk-
ards—''orrible, despicable drunkards; we was starv-
ing, we was without clothing. 1 had only one
gown to my back. But I am saved, and now I
have two gown, not to mention other articles
of clothing. Have I not, captain?” And her
husband answered, with grace and salvation on
every of his face, “ Missus, you ’as.”
THE QUEEN’S BIRTHDAY.


A pure stimulant wisely medicated with
tonic and alterative vegetable agents is what the
weak and feeble need, and it has boon provided in
Wolfe's SeuNArrs, the puiest spirit in the
world.* i
“ Young Nimrod,” the nine-year-old shoot-
ing wonder, was packed at Hendon to kill 70 birds
out of 100 at 18 yards rise with a toy-gun, 28-bore,
U-oz. shot, VA dr. sawdust powder* .He won
easily by five birds, killing 20 out ofitbe last 25,
including a run of 11 consecutive birds.
New Guinea will soon be moved by the
spirit. Itum.
The eye before which the eye of the boldest
quails— the I. O. U.
There’s something in n name after all. The
water question is the groat work of old Macin-
tosh’s life.
There are three rev. gentlemen hereabouts
who have pretty well Ailed the gaols of the colony
with bigamists.
To send hastily for an undertaker, and then
ask him “How’s the market for breastplate?” is
considered mean, by the trade.
The best fighter gets the most beautiful
bride among the Northern aborigines. With us
she is given to the highest bidder.
The introduction of the steam tram motor
to Sydney has saved 10,000,000 stripes to horseAosh
and 40,000,000 oaths to ’bus-drivers.
It was on the Northern circuit. David
Buchanan undertook to prove that a certain man
was insane. He succeeded. The man listened to
him.
When Dan O’Connor told the West Sydney
electors that he had a groat steak in the ward, a
fellow cried out ; “ Why, your butcher’s shop’s in
William-street.’’
Civil servants in N.S. Wales are in future
exempt from serving ns jurymen. This gives the
nightmen still more chances than ever of deter-
mining intricate libel cases.
WHERE?
Faded from the public gaze,
He who puts such tons of jam on,
He who had such cat-like ways—
Where in thunder's Oily Gammon ?
Some hay seed having fallen upon the back
of a sheep, "grass began to spring up all along the
spine. So says an English paper. Here the hay
seed finds a better soil in the head of the shep-
herd.
Our washy imitator, the Auckland Ob-
served, which has been going to the devil for a
long while past, has at last reached Its destination.
It has been bought by a parson I Shade of Rath-
bone!
At Bundaberg a man who was found
guilty of making a false marriage declaration was
awarded only a minute's imprisonment. The Judge
had, prior to passing sentence, eaugbt sight of the
brines foot.
A certain J.P., appointed not more than
eleven years ago, is the son of a man who grew
rich purchasing stolen gold from highwaymen, and
first mastered the intricacies of the law by acting
as bush-telegraph.
A thief when caught in China doesn’t
offend a second time. They put him in a mortar
and Are him head foremost against a stone wall.
Some of them, unfortunately, appear to have gone
right through the stone wall or China, and landed
in Lower George-street, Sydney.
The Paris Gaulois insures every annual
subscriber’s life for £300. This is a hint the Shroud
people might profit by. Several people might be
induced to read (we do not say buy) the Shroud if
they wore sure of leaving their widows sufficient
to start a little business in the corn and coal line.
It was, of course, at Dubbo. The com-
mittee were discussing whether their profound
utterances should be diffused over the world by
the press, when the leading J.P. clinched the
matter by saying emphatically, “No, we’re not
agoing to have none of them ’ere shorthorn
writers here! ”
A Sunday or two back, oneof the reverend
sky-pilots of St. Mary’s insulted most aggraya-
tingly an old gentleman and his wife, by ordering
t hem out of a seat in a way that drew the attention
of the whole congregation. The arrogance of
some of these beery priests to their own people
shows how utterly unlit they are to hold their
positions.
“ Buzzy,” of the Queenslander, is always
striking out some new and remarkable discovery,
An article on the benefits of washing in cold water
conveys his latest sensation. Wo like to help genius
along, and therefore throw out the hint that
“Buzzy" will And soap— the ordinary article of
commerce, you can procure it at any chemist’s —
very useful with his water.
It appears that in the Charters Towers (Q.)
Hospital, Kanakas, Chinamen and blacks are to be
found in the same ward with the white patients.
The committee, saysdhe Northern Miner, should
construct separate wards for white and coloured
races. So they should. And this makes us wonder
why the Almighty did not make separate worlds
for them. But lie hadn’t the benefit of Thady’s
advice when He was Axing up things.
The Freeman’s Journal, which jests “ex-
tremely seldom,” says that the way to warm your
feet is to stand on tip-toe. This explains to us,
then, why, at night (in legal hours), policemen are
so often scon standing in that attitude at the back
gates of licensed houses, talking to either the
cook or the landlord. Policemen, therefore, must
-.uffer more from cold feet than the rest of miu-
kind. W hat’s the reason, we wonder ? Something
in the swearing, perhaps.
Some months ago a man named “Scotty
Jackson” accidentally shot himself dead whilst
out sporting near Brafdwood on a lovely Sawbath
morn. Next prayer-meeting day, every gospel-
sharp about the district feelingly alluded to the
just retribution of a Divine Providence for the
unholy desecration of the Looard’s Day. Last
Sunday week, however, a man was drowned near
Araluen whilst going to church, and there's not a
word said about the matter.
One of the many lunatics tv ho send queries
for solution to the Sphinx of the Down and Gum-
tree in a late issue wants to know whether
butchers are allowed to sit as jurymen, or to give
evidence on oath m a court of justice. As this
relic of the “feudal days of old romance” hails
from Yammatree, it would bo advisable for a
mad doctor ” to pay a visit to that locality. But,
no - hand liira over to the the tender mercies of the
local “man of biood.” The Winter is upon us,
and thoroughbred sAusages are in season.
“Honour to whom honour is due.” The
Herald has already mentioned the fact that,
although the invitation to join the Postal Union
Mure from England the idea of a Union originated
in Victoria; but it is not so generally known that
Mr. Jackson, the permanent head of the Post Office
there, is its author. That gentleman has forseveral
years been working out the scheme, corresnonding
and consulting with official and commercial autho-
rities; nevertheless, he wasn’t (we believe at the
Instance of the Queensland delegate) admitted to a
seat at the Conference, and thus the Hon. Graham
Berry gets all the glory and distinction. “ One man
soweth and another reapeth.”
A poor girl, who had been living in the
service of a Brisbane publican for 16 years, and
whoso mother had died in his service, leaving her
child in his care, was lately turned out in the
streets by him because she was encicnU. The girl
had no money or friends, and was starving when
the police found her. The magistrate commented
strongly on the conduct of the publican. In more
primitive communities, which have not the benefit
of being governed by our glorious laws, the heart-
less wretch would have been lynched within an
inch of his life—and probably an inch over. He
gave as an excuse for his brutality, his determina-
tion to uphold morality. It is such morality as
this that tills hell.
“Waal, we admire this, we dew!” The
(to be) Anointed of Moscow appears to possess
what the public of Parramatta and the surround-
ing neighbourhood call a “ knocker.” In a mani-
festo he says:—“Humiliating ourselves before the
inscrutable ways of Providence, and the hard trials
sent to us, we could not find it in our heart to
accomplish this sacred ceremony until such time
as we could succeed in mastering the feelings of
pain and horror awakened in us by the untimely
and cruel fate of our beloved father.” This with
a premiere dameuse on the floor above, a prima
donna (Austrian) in the 8.E. wing, two private
Princesses in the entresol, and a dozen or so Circas-
sians near the roof. Thunder!
A man recently went into a Gippsland
church, and began to pretend to take down the
sermon. Tiring of this mild amusement after
a while, he drew a bottle from his pocket, took a
long swig, and handed it to the next worshipper.
Before he commenced to hand the bottle about,
people considered he was a reporter, and the state
of his boots Justifying the supposition he was
charitably let alone. No sooner, however, did his
conduct in pushing about the grog attract the
minister’s eye, than ho knew at once his hopes of
obtaining publicity even in the Bum were delu-
sive ; so no gave the word and the man was putout
on his head. The congregation much enjoyed the
proceedings ; and a little later the deacons much
enjoyed the balance of the liquor.
It is extremely dangerous at this time to go
over the road to see a man in Adelaide. Any person
who is not visible for three hours is immediately
reckoned up as having “slidod.” Last week a
young, dashing professional man, who married a
Sydney girl; a popular agent, who worked on the
Wesleyan ticket; and another agent, who worked
Now Zealand wards,—were spoken of as “slidees.”
The professional man turned up—wrong side fore-
most, it is said—to confound certain gossips; but
the agents are indubitably non est. So little cash
and so many dishonoured acceptances are floating
in the business atmosphere of Adelaide that, al-
though a great clerical gun did pay his son’s
gambling and racing debts, ho still [Enough!—
Ed. B.]
A Christchurch solicitor of tender years,
who is deeply in love with a wealthy client’s
daughter, with whom he had spent a blissful night
at a ball, fell asleep next day during the hearing of
a protracted case in the Resident Magistrate’s
court. Starting up suddenly during a lull in the
proceedings, he told the magistrate that he loved
nis daughter dearly, and hoped he would accept
him as a son-in-law. The magistrate, who is an
old bachelor, was naturally somewhat astonished,
but on regaining self-possession he was understood
to say that the young man was perfectly welcome
to any girl of his he could pick up in the neigh-
bourhood.” The legal genius, who had been talk-
ing in his sloop, then woke up, and tied from the
court-house. He has not been there since.
“Look at her!” he cried excitedly, as a
lady passed the Post Office ; “look well and long;”
and they stared after her until the policeman on
duty had to come and press their eyeballs back
with his truncheon. “But what for?” said the
friend, when ho was exhausted with gazing—“ is
she a celebrated criminal?” “No; bettor than
that.” “A Coffee Palace waitress?” “No.” A
star across?” "No.” “A grass widow?” “No!
Heavens! 1 wish I could got a sight of her again;
she—she—” “Thunder! tell us who she is,” cried
the friend, “or I’ll kill you. Quick now! Is she
Lucrezia Borgia, Charlotte Corday, Louise Michel,
Lot’s wife?—’ “More extraordinary I” Ho took
his friend into a dark spot, and said, in excited
tones—" She is the woman who has never seen
‘ Pinafore.’ ”
Now that the snakes have crept into their
holes, shark stories are getting about. A ship
captain reports that a man of his who “fell from
the main-royal yard into the sea in a heavy gale of
wind,” fought in the water with a shark for three-
quarters of an hour, and eventually repulsed the
“marine monster” with his sheath-knife. We
believe this implicitly. The man who fell from the
main-royal yard of a ship would be just in the
right fettle to tackle a shark, and the heavy gale
would freshen him up, and stimulate him to
further exertion. We should like to know the
captain who told this story. We figure to ourselves
a man with a soft dreamy eye, a broad expansive
forehead, and a fine and vivid imagination. If he
could tell all this about a shark, what couldn’t he
tell about a whale ?
It would be somewhat difficult to draw
the legal boundary line of insulting behaviour and
language. In West Australia a Mr. Sloane, a well-
to-do person, by the way, has lately boon fined for
“making faces”—not “making eyes,” mind you—at
a woman! while in Victoria another has had to
part for styling Mr. M’Koan “a big bully.” We
recollect two cases, however, which altogether
cap these. A few years ago a rough-and-ready
rustic was mulcted in sundry crowns at Morpeth,
for dubbing an august policeman “a bobby, and
at Penrith a young woman had to fork out a con-
siderable amount of her pin-money for styling one
of the same patrician gentlemen, who had anything
but a creamy complexion, “a black peeler.” We
shall, no doubt, soon arrive at a stage when the
terms “man” and “woman” will be held as coming
under the definition “ insulting.” In the etiquette
of the shoddy aristocracy they are so held already.
She was inebriated, and had torn enough
of his whiskers out to make a hospital bolster, had
knocked off his helmet, and thrown his truncheon
through a shop-window. It was rather late, and
few were stirring, so as he held her down in a
wheelbarrow ho looked anxiously about for help.
A moment or two later a bejewelled bank clerk
sauntered up. He was curled and scented, and was
nicking his way along to a swell supper. " Help,
in the Queen’s name,” cried the constable. “1
couldn’t, really—” stammered the clerk. “ Wheel
this barrer while I hold her, or I’ll let her go and
lock you up.” Three minutes later he was wob-
bling along all mixed up with the woman, the
barrow, and the constable, when there came along
a party of ladies and gentlemen who were also
bidden to the feast. And it was all over the town
next morning how he had been forced by the
sergeant to wheel his degraded companion to the
station.
A fellow was engaged to marry a girl in
Rockhampton—a recently imported * “ well-con-
ducted domestic servant ’’—and, in the course of
their courtship, he gave her many presents. In a
little while she got cool, and broke off the match;
and then he demanded his presents back. The lady,
however, returned no answer to this request, but
shortly afterwards married “ the other fellow,”
and opened a little fancy shop. The jilted one,
passing the emporium one morning, looked in at
the wiiidow, and was much exercised at seeing all
the articles ho had given her hanging up for sale,
and marked at fancy prices. Hashing in he en-
countered a man. “ What do you mean by expos-
ing those articles ?” he cried savagely. “ They wor
gi’en Susy ba soom silly moony loot," was the
answer; “so I’ll mak a redooction av ye take a
quantity.” The jilted one then sadly retired;
while, from an upper window, the sound of a senji-
amothered laugh fluttered by him on the wings of
tire Autumn breezes.
For meanness, this can’t be surpassed. A
two-days’ race-meeting inaNortlicru township had
been so successful that the tidy surplus of £•>-
remained not profit, and, a few days ago, the
stewards mot to wind up. Those present included
the two publicans who had had booths on the
course, throe intended sons-in-law, and four others.
Son-in-law primus moved that, ns the meeting had
boon so successful financially, the two publicans
should bo refunded the £5 and £15 they had respec-
tively paid for their booths; son-in-law sicurdus
had (naturally) much pleasure in seconding that
proposition. The astounded chairman pointed out
that it would bo just ns fair to refund the
sums paid by the lessees of the stand and gate, and
the entrances paid by horse-owners. But neither
sense nor shame could penetrate the swill-sellers’
hides, and the proposition was actually carried, the
majority of five being composed of the two pub-
licans and their three sons in futuro. They had no
more right to put this £20 in their own pockets
than they had to spend the club money in purchas-
ing polecats.
We see in the Herald that a schoolmaster
is advertised for who will “teach workmen’s chil-
dren in the morning, and work in the garden in the
afternoon.” This comes of people nearing that
reporters write about the abstract principles of t he
Confucian theology in the morning and do the
family mangling in the afternoon. Poets are setting
a bad example, too. When a man writes about
The holy stars, the sky bespangled
Glinting o'er the vasty deep,
wo expect him to be (esthetic; to wear his hair
long, and keep his nails cut; but he doesn’t. Wo
know quite a cart-load of bards, and all the water
they use amongst them in a month (for every pur-
pose) would irrigate a geranium. All this is sadly
disenchanting. Why, only the other day, in a back
street, wc met a bard who sang with passing sweet-
ness. “ How are you, old chap ? ” wo asked.
“ Thy voice’s cadence makes to vibrate sweet
The cadence of my soul,”
he replied. And yet he drank rum and pepper-
mint.
They both carried cherubs, and they said,
“ Which side does the train start, please ? ” “ This
side, madam.” After a moment, June whispered to
Julia, “Perhaps he doesn’t know: we'd better ask
the man at the window.” So they went to the man
whose face peered from the pigeon-hole behind
which the Department thinks it necessary to shelter
its clerks, in case of some of some fearful attack
on the part of the public. “The other aide, madam.”
With a look of triumph at the official who had
informed them otherwise, they trudged over the
bridge. A little pause : then Julia said to Jane,
“Oh! my dear, whatever we do, we mustn’t miss
this train. We’d bettor ask this person, and make
sure.” “This person” had a gold baud on his cap,
which seemed of itself emblematical of depart-
mental omniscience. He could not be wrong. So
they asked him. As the train now appeared in the
distance, the rest of the episode occurred quickly.
“ Oh, no, madam ; not this side—the other.” She,
dissatisfied: “It’s a pity station-masters don’t know
their business.” He, sarcastically: “Oh! we’ll im-
port one who knows his business, specially for you,
ma’am.” She, similarly, only extra crushing: “How
very kind of you! Will he be a civil one ? ” Then
the harassed and irritated females trudged back
over the bridge again, and—missed the train!
This is the story of the triumph of the
broomstick and soup’-ladlo over the wig and gown.
Some time ago, a distinguished Parliamentary
official, who can split hairs and cut shingles out
of straws with anyone this side of the equator, had
a difficulty with hiis cook, and dismissed her. She
then sued him for something or other; and as he is
a stickler for principle and considered himself
right, morally and otherwise, he determined on
defending the ease at the Police Court. Behold
him, then, on the eventful morning. In the temple
of Justice, his whiskers gleaming with Rowland’s
Macassar, in his eyes already the flush of victory,
on his face the holy calm derivable but from mens
cousria recti and a constant contemplation of the
Statute Book. In front of him the Bench, at his
hand eighteen huge law books with his “ authori-
ties” slip-marked. Plaintiff gives her evidence,
whereupon the defendant proceeds to address his
Worship at great length and to quote from
no less than eleven decisions supporting his
view of the case. After this kind of thing
has gone on for half an hour or so, Mr,
Marsh, Stipendiary Magistrate, blandly interposes:
“ Some of the decisions quoted by you from your
Mount Kosciusko of law-books are apposite ;
others are not. But I think I have here an authority
which you have no doubt overlooked, and which
completely overrides everything you have ad-
vanced. I refer to—” “What is it?" eagerly
asked the law-architect, thinking that ho might
have overlooked something in the appendix to the
latest edition of Broom’s Maxims, or Paloy on
Summary Convictions. “It is,” replied the Sti-
pendiary Magistrate, in a most dignified manner,
" Mrs. Beeton’s Cookery Book —in which is defined
the established practice with respect to the dis-
missal of cooks.” This was a crusher. The de-
fendant said never a word, but instinctively put
his hand in his pocket and paid all the cook
claimed. As soon as he recovered his powers of
locomotion, he walked out; and when at last his
aphasia, had sufficiently toned down to permit of his
calling a van, he got his books carted away again
to the Crown Law offices.
If we ever die—a matter of which wo
are doubtful, since we have survived so many
shocks—we wish to be buried in New England. In
one of the towns in that district, a man was lately
killed by an accident. The coroner did not
turn up till two hours after the time appointed;
was deep in some chess problem, or his dinner, we
suppose, and couldn’t be disturbed for the sake of
a “dead’un.” Anyhow, his delay kept the funeral
back, and, says the local paper, “in order to reach
the cemetery before dark, the funeral cortege was
compelled to hurry through the town at a trot—a
spectacle which could not fail to shock the feel-
ings of those who witnessed it.” Indeed! There is
nothing so pleasing to us as to contrast the acute-
ness of feeling which people display with regard to
the dead with the apathetic indifference they ex-
hibit to the living. It is so cheap, you see, to be
sympathetic when sympathy is all that is required
of you. But, what about those feelings that were
shocked ? Whoso feelings ? Those of the butcher,
the baker, the blacksmith, the tailor, the printer ?
A glass of rum would be solace for them all. Bury
us up in New England, because, when we die, we
wish to be buried in a hurry. We don’t forget Mr.
Levion’s remark in the court, some time ago, that
a bailiff might seike upon a dead body for debt.
Some time ago, in Sydney, a head bailiff put a man
into possession of a debtor’s house, leaving strict
instructions that nothing should be allowed to
leave the place. The debtor’s wife was lying dead
in her coffin, and when the hearse came to
take away her poor clay “the man in possession”
refused to allow the removal of the body. The
unfortunate widower did not commit murder, as
almost any man might have been expected to do
under the circumstances. He went and told the
plaintiff’s lawyer, who, being a humane man, in-
stantly withdrew the execution on his own respon-
sibility. And, by the way, all this reminds us that
bailiffs are permitted by our glorious laws to
make much money-out of the misery of the poor.
A bailiff is allowed six or seven shillings per day
fees for taking and keeping possession of a house
during the period immediately preceding distraint.
He can find lots of loafers who arc willing to take
his place for two or three shillings a day and their
food, which the occupier of the house is forced by
law to supply. T’tie bead-bailiff nays his minions
as little as he can help, pockets the balance, and
becomes rich. All this is perfectly legal. How
long, O Lord ?
THE NEWSLETTER.
A young fellow employed on his father’s
farm, In the Wide Bay country, wished to make
his sweetheart a present. The old man would not
help him, so ho looked about for means to accom-
plish his purpose, and found them in another
man's nag, which ho appropriated, and sold for
£3, “intending 1 afterwards to redeem the horse."
lie was arraigned at the Circuit Court, and sent to
gaol for 18 months with hard labour. A public
petition has gone forward on his behalf.
Things were made so hot in China for E.
Russell Daunt, the absconder who returned and
gave himself up last week, that he found it im-
possible to obtain employment. The Hongkong
police wore told all about him by the Sydney
authorities, and the whole of the banks and load-
ing mercantile establishments of the East received
a circular letter on the subject. Then remittances
from Sydney ceased, and Daunt came to the con-
clusion that ho had no chance, especially as the
arrival of a Sydney detective might be looked for
at almost any moment. When he came back he
brought nothing with him, except a little jewellery
and some silver spoons, which fell into the hands
of the police. Just as the Inspector-General was
about to send after him, the Hongkong authorities
wired that he was aboard the Euxine, en route, to
Melbourne. It is alleged that Daunt is in posses-
sion of some very interesting information con-
cerning illicit distillation in Sydney. The manu-
facture of whisky has long been conducted on a
most extensive scale right under the noses of the
police, by certain most respectable people engaged
in the liquor trade. There is a deep mystery con-
cerning the relations of some Sydney officials with
this now penitent plate-humping churchwarden,
whose former sureties have not been estreated,
and who has again been enlarged on bail I
TheNoRMANioN Herald loudly complains
of the inefficiency of the Queensland native police,
and urges that the oldest and least efficient officers
should be drafted off to other positions in the Civil
Service. The latest from the Far North is that
Mr. W. H. Crawford, manager of Rocklands
Station, went out after cattle with a myall who
was not to be depended upon, but who neverthe-
less was permitted to take too many liberties with
his master, and was even allowed to carry the
revolver, the only weapon with the party. Alarmed
at Crawford’s long absence, Mr. E. D. Murray, of
Morstone, and a companion, started on his tracks,
which were followed for about fifty miles from the
homo station, on the Gregory Falls, and in S.A.
territory. They led through two blacks' camps, and
into a third, where the body was found, dossicated,
mummified and blackened by exposure to the tropi-
cal sun. It was lying on its back, and close at hand
was a two-handed nullah-nullah, on which clotted
blood appeared. The shirt was worm-eaten, but
over the left breast was a hole which might have
been made by a bullet, and a corresponding hole
into the chest. Whether Mr. Crawford was shot
down first, and then finished off with the native
weapon, or whether the destroying process was
reversed, are points of conjecture; but there is
little room to doubt that the real murderer was
the black boy, though ho may have egged on other
males of his tribe to the deadly atrocity. Mr. Craw-
ford was only 23 or 24 years of age. Mr. Murray,
not being able to dig a grave, covered the body
with boughs.
Bight New Caledonian escapees were
brought up at the Brisbane police-court, on the
10th instant, and a French warder gave them all
excellent characters for ability in cutting throats,
robbing, and embezzling. This reminds us of the
arrival of the first batch of these evades, after
Rochefort and his companions, who reached
Queensland. There were three of them. They
landed from a small boat, which was smashed
in the surf, within sight of the Cape
Moreton lighthouse; and as there is tele-
graphic communication from Brisbane, their
arrival was speedily announced, and it was ascer-
tained that they were being conveyed up to town
in the Government steamer; Kate. At that time
the Queensland authorities had not realized the
sort of infection such visitors were likely to intro-
duce, and they were treated as if they had been
mere shipwrecked sailors, free to take their own
course, while Chief Commissioner of Police Sey-
mour, a good fellow, and us smart as his neighbours,
took a broad view of life and pondered how many
buttons a constable should wear on the back of his
blouse. The arrival of such distinguished ad-
venturers was, of course, an event for the re-
porters, and the representatives of the two dailies,
the Courier, (morning), and the Telegraph
(evening), wore on the qui vine. As the Kate was
to reach Brisbane about 8 a.m., the odds were all
in favour of the Telegraph having the first show
with a "full account.” And if there was one thing
more than another upon which the Telegraph-
man plumed himself, it was the elegant fluency of
his French, whereas the CouRiER-man, although
he could worry along in the Gallic tongue,
was considerably below par as a conversation-
alist in that language. Before seven o’clock
the rotund figure of the Telegraph re-
porter might have been observed lurking and
dodging among and behind the packages on the
wharf, keeping one eye pointing down the river
and the other wandering over the different avenues
by which the wharf might bo approached by his
rival of the Courier. That laggard did not appear.
(>n the contrary, he had driven seven miles down
the river to a place where he could get a boat, and
had boarded the Kate on her upward passage, and,
as he was the first man the refugees had met since
landing who could talk French at all, he was
quickly on the most Intimate footing with the
men; and they were narrating their little stories to
him with delightful candour. One had tut! unhomme
(merely killed a man), another had been caught in a
little burgling affair, and the other—we forget,
only he was worthy of his mates. Now, the Courier
man had ascertained that the refugees were to be
treated as free agents; but he know the Tele-
graph man would be waiting on the wharf, and
that if that rival got ten minutes talk with the
heroes of the hour, or oven saw the backs of their
heads, there would be a column and a half of vera-
cious and highly sensational narrative in that
evening’s Telegraph, whereby his account in the
Courier of the next morning would be anticipated
and killed. So the Courier man, assuming the
wisdom of the serpent, no sooner learned the
ordinary professional avocations of these foreign
gentlemen than his countenance exhibited a lively
expression of alarm, consideration, and anxiety, as
he communicated to the escapees his conviction
that they would surely be met and arrested by the
police at the wharf, and especially besought them to
beware of the blandishments or one particularly
obnoxious mouchard (plain clothes dectective) who
would be sure to try and insinuate himself into
their confidence and betray them. The Courier
man gave a particular and minute description of
the Telegraph reporter in the character of the
mouchard, thus ensuring a preternatural reserve
on the part of his prey, even should they fall into
the hands of his professional rival. But he never
meant these men to reach the wharf where the
Telegraph man was fretting impatiently. Half
way— that is, about a couple of miles by road from
Brisbane—there stands lacing the river a well-
known hostelry, the “ Hamilton,” and here the
Courier man got his two prizes put ashore.
When the Kate had reached the Brisbane wharf, a
stout middle-aged gentleman was speedily cursing
all Frenchmen and Courier men right up their
genealogical tree. The Courier man was so
far from suffering from these blasts that at the
same moment ho was ensconced in a snug parlour
in the “Hamilton,” trying to understand the
Italian-French of a burglar from Nice, while a
most obliging murderer from Picardy was writing
down an account of the escape from New Caledonia
and the boat voyage to Moreton Island. The
reporter Impressed upon all, at intervals, the essen-
tial necessity of their disappearing—sinking into
the earth —forthwith, lest the police lay hands upon
them, and especially to keep clear of the stout
French-speaking mouchard, who would be sure to
try and run them down and elicit information to
bo used against them. There were no particulars
of the interesting strangers in the Telegraph
that evening, but next morning the Courier bad
first show with two columns of exciting narrative-
Artist (with fine irony): “ ’Ow will you
have your hair parted, sir ?”


315 George Street.
A few of our undertaking's MOST SUCCESS-
FULLY carried out, among- which will bo found
the LARGEST, MOST DIFFICULT, and MOST
RESPONSIBLE events that have taken place since
the opening of this establishment.
His Worship the MAYOR’S PICNIC, for 450, at
Clontarf.
His Worship the MAYOR’S BALL, for HiOO, Exhi-
bltion Building, at which his Worship, John
Harris, entertained their R.H.’s PRINCES AL-
BERT and GEORGE, EARL CLAN WILLIAM,
and the Officers of the Detached Squadron.
MASONIC BALL. English Constitution, for 1253,
Exhibition Building.
MASONIC BALL, N.S.W. Constitution, at Town
Hall, Sydney.
Visit of their R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Lithgow Valley Mines and Zigzag.
Dinner « la Bmse, for 60, in Government Palace
Dining Car while travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000 SCHOOLCHIL-
DREN —re Queen’s Statue Demonstration—under
VERY SHORT NOTICE, only receiving the
order at 3.30 p.m., to bo ready on the spot at 13.30
p.m. the following day.
Visit of THEIR R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Captain Cook’s Landing, south side
of Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon and refresh-
ment, for 100, under VERY SHORT NOTICE, re-
ceiving order at 9.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot
at 1 p.m. following day.
The LADY MAYORESS’ RECEPTIONS, Town
Hall.
The UNION CLUB BACHELOR’S BALL, at Exhi-
bition Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE W1NDEYER.
The Barristers' Dinner to JUDGE 1NNES.
Dinner 3 la Rime at St. Paul’s College, for 150 Mem-
bers of the CBURCH OF ENGLAND SYNOD.
Dinner .1 la Rime, to the INTERCOLONIAL RIFLE
TEAMS, Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Barsat HAWKES-
BURY RACES, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at RAND-
WICK RACES, in Grand Stand.
The CONSULAR DINNER, in our new Banquet
Room.
Banquet at CAMDEN, Tramway Opening.
ARMIDALE RAILWAY Demonstrations. Ban-
quet for 400; MA V'OR’S BALL, 600, same evening,
and CITIZEN'S BALL, 500, the following even-
ing.
Dinner to the PRESBYTERIAN SYNOD.
Breakfast to the CONGREGATIONAL SYNOD.
ST. VINCENT’S Hospital Ball.
THE MERCANTILE Rowing Club Ball.
Numerous Banquets and Entertainments by HIS
WORSHIP THE MAYOR at Town Hall, &c.
Numerous Dinners <i la Ru*ne in the N.S.W.
GOVERNMENT PALACE DINING CAR. while
travelling by rail, on account of the GOVERN-
MENT.
Together with a numerous lot of Private Dinners,
Feasts, Weddings, Garden Parties, Balls, Tea
Meetings Land Sales, Suppers, Picnics, Fishing
Excursions, &c.
MALfBrfTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION,
BILIOUSNESS, COMPLAINT, WEAKNESS, &c.
PRICE 2s. 6d.
A. G. KEBBLEWHITE, Chemist, &c.,
43 BRSKINE STREET ; and
W. H. SOUL, Pitt Street.
koumiss:koumiss i
J3T" THE GREAT MILK DIET.
CURES CURES
Indigestion
Heartburn
Debility
&c. &c.
OUMlil
&
Diabetes
Bright’s
Disease
Consumption
&e. &c.
REGISTERED TRADE MARK.
ty KOUMISS Is not a quack remedy, but is
prescribed and used by all the leading Physicians,
and will POSITIVELY CURE the above complaints.
We cordially invite the public to call at our office,
161 PHILLIP STREET, and judge for themselves
of the EXTRAORDINARY TESTIMONIALS al-
ready to hand fi’om well-known citizens. Reference
is permitted to all the leading Physicians, also to
the following: The Lady Superintendent Childaon’s
Hospital; Rev. G. Macarthur, King's School, Para-
matta; Alderman R. Butcher, Mayor of Woollahra;
T. Hales, Esq., Manager S. O. Co.; Duncan M’Kay,
Esq., Whittiugham; Augustus Morris, Esq.; Rev.
.1. J. Carroll, St. Augustine’s, Balmain ; Rev. Z.
Barry, St. Matthias’. Woollahra; Capt. Rountree
Balmain, and many others.
NEW YEAR,NEW YEAR—FURNITURE. FUR-
NITURE.—How to make your homes com-
fortable. Why, is to call at II. LEVY & CO.’S
CENTRAL FURNISHING ARCADE, 29, 31, and 33
Park-street, where you can get every description
of Furniture, Bedsteads, Bedding, and every re-
quisite for housekeeping. New Shipment of floods
just opened. Prices not to be equalled anywhere
in the city. Come and judge for yourselves.
f| IME PAYMENT. TIME PAYMENT. TIME
■ PAYMENT.—H. LEVY and CO., Central Fur-
nishing Arcade, 29, 31, and 33, Park-street. The
only house in Sydney where you can furnish on
the New Time Payment System, from £10 to £1000.
No Bills of Sale. All Goods are Marked in Plain
Figures, and no deception.
Australian furniture. Australian
FURNITURE. Wo have a Snlondid Assort-
ment of all the Newest Kinds and Shapes, at Prices
that will Defy Competition, on the New Time Pay-
ment System. H. LEVY and CO., CENTRAL
FURNISHING ARCADE, 29, 31, and 33 Park-street.
EVERY \ DR. MRSTm MW WORK.
MAN
SHOULD
READ
A valuable book, describing how sufl'er-
I ers from Nervoim ami IMiysifiil Debility,
Mental Decay and all disorders result-
ing from -Excesses, Indiscretions or
Overwork, are permanently Cured
UITIIOCT STOMACH MEDICATION.
Weak, nervous A Impotent Men renloreil to
ViaOE, HEALTH A1TD MAHHOOP.
Consultation and Book free Address—
msrOH m*DTCo„ 350 Gecrge St.
SYDNEY.
MOUSTACHE ANO WHISKERS.
Boyd's Beard Elixir did this, and wil do it
on either bald head or bare f.ct Korean
heavy Mt.osiarhe in from 'i to i weeks and
never tana 'xlM'OO yuim* already wear
1 lull beard.,having used 1 to 3 pkt's. No
injury, easily applied, certain in effect
Packets Is. (id. each, 3 for 3a. rid.. po>: paid,
sent under eovsr tree from observation. Address, Fhan K Douglas.
.Sole Agent, Box G.P.O,, Sydney, N.S.W
Use Hop Bitters once and you will use no
other medicine. Test it. Be sure and read.*
A N.Z. gentleman shortly marries a young
lady of the Jewish persuasion, resident at Moore
Park.
Many ladies are now wearing Oriental Gold
jewellery, especially in the theatres and on public
occasions, when'to wear real gold and diamonds
would be to incur the chance of serious loss, the
imitative look just as well as the genuine, and are
said to wear a lifetime.
The display of winter drapery at Hordern
Bros. (Pitt-street only) is par excellence the attrac-
tion of Pitt-street.
POLITICAL POINTS.
given to compensate for taking away a grant
illegally made by George IT. The Nelson pension
of £5000 lasts as long as the title; his brother’s
widow drew £53,000 from the treasury chest hya*'
self, and other relatives £30,000. Surely, T ratal
has been paid for now ? Lord Exraouth
£3000 a year while the title lasts, because Admiral
Pellew bombarded Algiers. Lord Gough’s £3000,
Lord Hardinge’s £3000, Lord Raglan’s £3000, and
Lord Napier’s £3000 a year, were all granted for
two lives, say fifty years. The pensions granted to
the Duke of Richmond by Charles II. were re-
deemed by the country at a cost of nearly half a
million: those of the Duke of Grafton for a third
of a million, but this worthy gentleman still re-
ceives £900 a year for an office abolished in Charles’
time. The Dukes of Marlborough and Wellington
each have continual pensions of £4000; though
each original warrior of that name received nearly
half a million, after Blenheim and Waterloo, re-
spectively. The Earls of Kinnoul receive £676 per
annum while the title lasts; and Sir W. Eden and
Sir P. Mostyn receive £786 a year for ever, because
their predecessors lost a billot in the law courts.
Another gem on the pension list is the allowance
of £3357 a year for abolition of a legal billet,
granted to Mr. H. Darley, who retired at the age of
39. Lord Brougham gets £3335, and has had it for
thirty-one years. Sir E. Lingard is paid £1300 a
year to console him for relinquishing a billet of
£3000 which he only held for ten years. These are
just a few cases out of many. Now, dear reader,
perhaps you can understand how extremely unde-
sirable a person this disagreeable Mr. Bradlaugh
would be in Parliament, with all his peculiar pre-
judices about perpetual pensions. And perhaps
you will be just a little doubtful whether it is only
Mr. Bradlaugh’s irreligion that these holy peers
object to.
■ • •
The Queensland Parliament will prob ably
meet for business on June 36.. .There is talk of
a syndicate to construct a railway on the land-
graut principle from Hawbelle on the Dawson to
the port of Gladstone, in Queensland. The country
all along the proposed line is strongly mineralized,
and at Rawbelle the deposits of copper, which have
never been seriously worked, are believed to bo
very rich indeed.
* * *
A Russian priest, who has travelled around
the world says; “The English-speaking people
have taken the lead every whore.”.... Thus Henry
Labouchero, M.P., editor of Tuuxh:—“Having for
Davie Buchanan says two neat things of
Sandy Stuart. His speeches, heavers, are “tedious-
ness inflicted with lavish prodigality;” and that
“ he is always aiming at nothing, and always hitting
it.” Hut, then, David is so egotistical as to think
that the Premier is always aiming at him.
An astute Maori, one Wahanui, has got the
measure of one or two of our boasted institutions.
He addresses to his compatriots in the King coun-
try a manifesto in the course of which he remarks:
“ Behold a kite made of bark flies towards you;
these two things, the Government for one, and the
lawyers for another. The first consumes goods
and the latter devours men,”
A Sandhurst (V.) hard lets out at Angus
Mackay fa twelve stanzas, of which this is one:—
1,1 Freflh from the delectable land of old lags.
With flourish of trumpets and waving of flags,
Cocksure of your votes, election, and pay,
To retrieve his lost worship, comes Angus Mac-
kay.’’
The latest about the British army, accord-
ing to official returns: —Of 18,404 who enlisted in
1875, 4000 deserted or were dismissed as Incorrigible
blackguards; of the men who enlisted In 1881, 9313
either purchased their discharges, deserted, or were
dismissed. The purchases wore very few. In eight
years, desertions cost the country £3,800,000. The
rate of enlistment exhibits a heavy fall, and points
to the inevitable adoption of one of two alterna-
tlveB _ t ,onscrlptlon, or the enrolment of immature
lads who reduce the fighting power of the army.
When the fun-loving Fenian plants his
tittle keg of dynamite beneath the bed of bis be-
loved landlord, and then burrows down and tickles
it up with a fuse, the British Hon gives a howl
and chews Patsy up in one bite. The Doers have
of late been ” blackblrdlng” among the Kaffirs,
and have dynamited some of their black brothers.
Lord BraboUrne asked, in the House of Lords,
whether dynamite had been used; and in reply,
Lord Derby said: “I do not see that there is less
humanity in the employment of dynamite than
gunpowder. Dynamite has been used In operations
against a chief who had not remained faithful to
the British Government, and who steadily refused
to pay taxes, and I believe that chief has never
paid taxes to us at any time.” After this, no mis-
sionary should ever travel without dynamite.
Thady O’Kane pitches into the Roman
f’atholles, and especially the Irish Homan Catho-
lics, of the Towers, with the vigour which he
brings to most things he takes in hand; and after
charging them with sedition and treason, works
In a little grievance of his own, thusThe
Roman Catholic Church committee of this town
owe the Northern Miner £4 for printing the
bazaar tickets, priest left owing two
years’ subscription, yet those clerical gents swag-
ger up Mosman-street as if they were millionaires.
They arc dressed in purple and fine linen and fare
sumptuously every day ; the poor ignorant crowd
they lead by the nose bleed freely, and give money
when it is asked for. They don’t know what
becomes of it—‘shure it Is in good hands. They
beg from all hands, and when a public journal ex-
Soses their Ignorance and Intolerance, they have
le peculiar Irish meanness to boycott it.’
This is how the native press in India talks
plain Hindostani. A Coercion Act seems sadly
needed:—“You have accomplished a revolution
in India greater than you know of in giving us an
English education. You have AngUcised our
ideas, you have overturned our native institu-
tions, you speak proudly of your administration
and educatioil, your rule and railroads. We value
them mainly as aids to a consummation which
perchance you neither dream of nor desire, they
serve to unite the nations of our continental
country. Finally, then, speaking for the educated
classes of the country, we declare that we know
what we want, and will never rest content until we
get it. Wo want a free and united India, ruled by
natives. So far as you help us towards this end,
you will deserve and receive our thanks. We have
a vision of the approaching time when from the
Himalayas to Cape Comorin a free, educated, and
united country wih cease to be the plunder ground
of aliens.”
All the Peers in England are entitled to sit
in the House of Lords, but only a limited number
of Irish and Scotch peers. There are 450 English,
38 Irish, and 10 Scotch. Some of the latter, how-
ever, are English peers also, and sit in the Lords by
virtue of their English rank alone. For instance,
the father-in-law of the cousin of Lady Clarke
doesn’t sit as the Duke of Buceleugh, but, by
virtue of his English rank, as Earl 01 Doncaster.
The sons of Peers, .though called Lords by courtesy,
are not entitled to a seat in the Lords. Peers are
no longer created in Scotland —like fourpenny bits,
they don’t make them. Of the 500 Peers entitled
to sit, scarcely half ever use their privilege, and
the business of the House is really done by about
half-a-dozen men on each side. Three form a
quorum. There are no Ayes and Noes ; but when
voting the,Lords say “Content” or Non-con-
tent.The Duke of Cambridge is a brief and
clumsy speaker. The Prince of Wales presented a
petition in favour of the Deceased Wife’s Sister
Bill, but that has been bis only act for a long time,
and he never takes part in a debate. .The most
anomalously situated man in the House is the Duke
of ArgyU, who, is at the same time father-in-law
to the Queen’s daughter, and a leveller to the
backbone, as red a Radical at heart as England holds
to-day.
In the House of Commons, forty members
form a quorum. Curiously, a member can never
resign his seat. If he feels that way, he has to
circumlocute out of it by applying to the Chan-
ceUor of the Exchequer tor the ‘ Chiltern Hun-
dreds,” which office is of course given him. He
resigns that next day, and by this roundabout pro-
cess becomes free. Members generally sit with
their hats on, but must remove them when speak-
ing. A Pariiaraent lasts seven years. Except
from the mouths of Gladstone, Bright, and Sexton,
little or no real oratory is now heard in the Com-
mons. Lord Hartingtou has a painful, hesitating
delivery, and when seated always wears his hat on
his nose and his hands in his trousers pockets.
Other noted meu are—Childers, who made a total
failure in his attempt to reorganise the army;
Nicholson, who makes a hundred thousand a year
by distilling gin; Sir Stafford Northcote, who has
a timid, shrinking demeanour, and dull manner; W.
H. Smith, who has become fabulously rich by a
thirty-years’ monopoly of the railway book-stalls,
and is the original of Sir Joseph Porter, in “ Pina-
fore.” Callan was expelled from the Reform Club
last year for the grossest misconduct, and is now
shunned like a pariah. What is termed “ the
Fourth Party” is virtually composed of four per-
sons who think it their sole and sacred duty to
harass the Government as much as they possibly
can. with or without cause. They are—Gorst, a
barrister; Balfour; Sir Henry Wolf; and lastly,
the leader of the little nest of chirping crickets.
Lord Randolph Churchill, a young man of 34, with
more brass than brains, and a glibness of tongue
more suitable to a lawyer’s clerk than a would-be
statesman.
It was anticipated that even had the Affir-
mation Bill passed the House of Commons, It
would have been sent back by the Lords. There
are men in the assembly of Peers who will never
cease their exertions to keep Bradlaugh from Par-
liament, as long as power remains. Though as
high above them mentally as Shakespeare over
John Davies, and as superior to them in moral
character as an angel is to a satyr, they will not
let him in. They have good reason. Bradlaugh
holds a firm determination, and he has avowed it,
that perpetual pensions shall be abolished. They
are his btte nolr. A list of the national leeches,
who teed tat 011 the public treasury, put before his
face, is like a red rag to a buU. And no wonder;
for such a list would he almost incredible to any-
one who saw it tor the first time. Here are merelj'
a few items: The heir of William Penn (Colonel
Stuart) receives £4U00 a year, which pension has
been running ninety-three years! Lord and Lady
Rodnev each receive £1000 a year, to continue
while there is a male heir to the title; these pen-
sions have lasted one hundred and one years up to
the present date. Earl Amherst’s family have
rejoiced in £3000 a year for eighty year's; it was
years treated Ireland as the English navvy treats
his wife-kicked her almost to death—we are
amazed that the moment we desist she rises, not to
her knees to thank us for mercy, but to her feet
to demand separation.” — On Sunday night, Mr.
Charles Bright, in a second lecture on Bradlaugh,
argued that his exclusion from the Commons was
in direct contravention of English law. It was better
for Mr. Bradlaugh to observe the law with
the name of Atheist than for the Commons
to break it in the name of Deism 1 ho
foreign element in the United States consti-
tute 13 per cent., instead of as in i860. The
Irish element was 40 per cent, in 1800, but is now
only 37 per cent Several officers of the Russian
Imperial Guard arrested for Nihilism .Dunum
Freeman’s Journal says the Pope has been mis-
led, and is acting in ignorance of the principles ot
the Irish agitators. Mr. Sexton, M.P., advocates
the sending of an Irish deputation to Rome. .
Russia has invited the other Powers to enter into
a mutual compact against Socialists and Nihilists.
France, Germany, and Austria have already as-
sented Italy is favourable, and it is believed the
recent difficulties in connection with securing ex-
tradition of Fenians will dispose Great Britain to
ioin Should the scheme become an accom-
plished fact, it will do more to consolidate
the uneasy classes throughout Europe than
anything that could be designed....The Czar
has given an official but very unnecessary
intimation to all those who intend to witness
his coronation that they will run considerable
risk in attempting to accompany him in his
tour In 1849, 41,989 persons were committed
for trial in Ireland, and 31,303 convicted. In 1881
about 5300 persons were committed, and 3698 only
convicted. In England during the same period the
committals shrunk from 37,816 to 14,780, and the
convictions from 14,786 to 11,353. Population has
of course decreased in Ireland and increased in
England... .One of the rules of the House of Repre-
sentatives is, “ That no spirituous or malt liquors
or wines shall be offered for sale, exhibited or kept
within the Capitol (the Parliament House)
Czar reached Moscow safely, great enthusiasm.. .
Bradlaugh organising monster demonstration for
6th of August....Tynan, the alleged “Number
One ” denies the charge and offers to sureuder
himself to the U.S. authorities and have the
matter investigated.
" THE POOH PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession.]
“Why doesn’t he go home to ’Frisco?’’
inquired a gentleman of a Bulletin man, as a
forlorn-looking American pro. lounged discon-
solately outside a theatre. “ Because tie can’t walk
back,” was the lightning reply. . .The Emollo Mel-
ville Company are still in Brisbane, whore they
have made a most decided hit.... And Rosa Towers
—charming Rosa—and her company have been
doing equally good business in Tasmania... .The
Eloise Juno Company, at latest, were playing at
Napier (N.Z.) Mr. and Mrs. M’Gowan and Gerald
Dillon have joined the show — Our correspondent
at Auckland informs us that Jennie Lee has
done the biggest business there for a long time
past, the flist week’s receipts of “ Jo ” amount-
ing to over £800. Sir William Jorvois and suite
patronised the performance on one evening
Miss Annie Mayor, having regained her
health, has turned her back on quiet houis
and seaside sojournings, and accepted a
short engagement with George Darrell and W. J.
Holloway—who, wo hone, will not continue the
cheap, dreadful, and “ glue-and-gunpowder ” busi-
ness Williamson has done well enougli in Ade-
laide with “Patience,” drawing well, if slightly
caviare. Nellie Stewart, who plays Patience, was
indisposed lately, and Ida Osborne sang the part.
Some people did not miss Nellie, and some even
preferred Ida Joseph Goodman failed in his
action for broach of contract against Signor
Majeroni. Judge Dowling’s opinion was that
Goodman had disobeyed lawful orders, and
as to plaintiff’s plea that his name had not been
put In the bills according to agreement, his Honor
remarked that when plaintiff himself had the op-
portunity of putting his name on tho bills, he
described himself as something that he was not.
Verdict for defendant, with costs. The case
was an interesting one, and disclosed the usual
amount of inordinate vanity Tom Cassclli has
died, poor fellow, after a long and terrible struggle
with King Death, who dogged his footsteps with
years in the form of tubercular consumption. Alas,
poor Mungo I Bmilie Melville is now disconsolate.
• • •
Levy, the eoruetist, lias been married,
divorced, married again, divorced once more,
married another time, until he isn’t certain now
whether he is married or divorced. Levy ought to
take out his marriage licenses and divorces by the
package Alice Dunning Lingard, whose portrait
appears in the Spouting and Duamatic Nkws,
has finite established herself as a London favourite.
The ear which drove the Dublin assassins to
their bloody work has been purchased for
Madame Tussaud’s Exhibition, London — General
Tom Thumb and wife narrowlv escaped from
the terrible Milwaukee fire. A policeman
found them half suffocated in their bedroom, and
took one under each arm and brought them out
into the street. Mrs. Tom Thumb, with true femi-
nine instinct, though she had no time to dress, had
got together her jewels, and had suspended them
round her neck with a handkerchief . ...victor
Hugo’s drama, “Le Roi s’amuse,” the plot of
which is identical with that of “ Rigoletto, has
been lately played in Paris. The list of characters
is thus given in a Paris journalTnboulet,
fool to tho king and to his own daughter;
Francis I, a scoundrel without honour or con-
science ; Saltabadil, honest and feeling assassin; M.
do St. Valiier, tedious old man; Blanche, daughter
of Triboulet, an angel of perfection ; Dame
Berardi, an unprincipled cook; Maquebonne,
sister of Saltabadil, profession unspeakable
“ Ff-dora” was to be mesented at London Haymar-
ket, exactly in its French dress—indeed, Sardou
made this one of the conditions of sale. The trans-
lator has, however, made one or two slight con-
cessions to the proverbial modesty of English
audiences. It would be too shocking tor I Mora
to visit her lover, Vladimir Garishkini, son ot the
Minister of Police, alone, although the wealthy
widow is about to marry him, so she comes to his
apartments accompanied by her maid ! As the
maid is sent away directly she enters the room,
this tribute to the excessive virtue ot the Russian
Princess is somewhat strained.
COOGEE COURTSHIP.
She: “Oh! Gussie, darling, what if this rock should fall?”
He • Whv. in that event, I should be released from my engagement with a rather tedious
young person, with more money than beauty.” (But he didu t say it out loud.)


WOMAN ITEMS.
The young Infanta of Spain has two wet-
nurses, who relieve one another in their duties.
They are two of the finest young woman in Spain,
and ‘were chosen by the Cardinal Pnniate, who, it
may fairly be presumed, Is an authority.
A pretty English girl residing in Paris re-
cently wrote to the Czar in the course of her com-
munications, praying that Heaven would spare his
afe long for him to reign over his prosperous
kingdom and be a loving father to his people.
•Vlexandcr, so tickled was he with the joke, sent
the Grand Duke Nicholas to see her, and present
>or with some gifts. Not only did the Duke do
this, but he took the lady out for a drive also.
When next he eelled round, the fair sympathiser
wasn’t in. But her uncle was. Nicholas didn t
take her uncle for a drive. .
Flan bub says “ American girls never
dressed more becomingly than now, and their
tailor-made dresses show their bewitching figures,
and bring out all their good points in a way most
devastating to the heart of man. The Newmarket
!0«te are particularly attractive as they are now
cut. Take a tall, shapely girl, boll her down and
mould her into a tailor-made Newmarket coat
which will fit her as snugly as stretched rubber,
ind she looks about ns well as it is possible to
make her. The American girls bent the English
n these short, natty garments, because they have
nch pretty little feet to stand on. Many English
iris nave a certain straight-backed carriage that
s very stylish, and from the waist up look very
shapely t but, when they are looked at as an en-
tlrety, they are found to bo wanting. For instance,
the distance from the waist-belt down to the feet
is usually too short, the breadth of the hips too
great, and the size of the feet beneath the New-
market coat is invariably monstrous.”
A Duchess at a recent fftte at Chantilly
wore one of the most remarkable dresses ever
seen in Paris, so startling that on her entering the
ballroom every dancer stooped. Imagine a dross
fitting the upper part of the body like a glove,
composed entirely of black bugle beads, moulded
to every curve of the shoulders, bust, and back,
till the wearer looked like a statue carved in coal,
but glittering, scintillating and d izzllng with every
movement, however slight—a sheath of shining
armour, but all black as night, with all the sheen
of stars, and all their tremulous twinkle. The
skirt was drawn to its tightest, and not a trace of
fabric was visible-nothing but the jet beads, and a
trail of golden sunflowers on the train.
Matrimonial memoranda :—Neglect the
whole world beside rather than one another—
Never talk at one another, either alone or in com-
pany Give your warmest sympathies for each
other’s trials — Never taunt with a past mistake
... Never allow a request to be repeated— Don’t
find fault until you’re sure there is one, and you
know whose it is. Then be careful what you say.
. .Do not herald the sacrifices you make—The
beautiful in heart is a million times of more avail,
as securing domestic happiness, than the beautiful
in person Yes, and if we told you this a million
times, you’d go straight for the first pin-headed
girl you met with a pretty face just the same,
wouldn’t you, you wretched man ?
♦ ♦ *
There is a lot of nonsense talked about the
diabolical effects of wearing stay 8 : a «d people rail
at corsets who really know
But a calm, sensible writer, Lady Paget, pomte out
that unless women reverted to thfr old Grecian
costume —which would be quite a utopian sugges-
tion to make—there arc two very argu-
ments against dispensing with stays. One is tnat
without them there would bo the impoMi-
blllty of appearing neat and tidy, and the otnei,
that the extra strength of the bodies would make
them expensive, without preventing them trom
becoming shapeless and wearing out very qulOKiy.
A 'Frisco milliner closed her shop and appnea
for a drink license. She thought there might be
more money made out of bad habits than good
ones.... Somebody described genius as “ the power
In a man to kindle his own fire.” About this time
of year, very few married men pretend to genius.
Only a hair on her husband’s sleeve.
Only a delicate golden thread;
Only a story she didn't believe;
Only a man with a broken head.
.... The fashion of removing the glove before shak-
ing hands is no longer strictly observed. In fact,
it can’t be. It is a relic of the old times, when
gloves were very loose and could be slipt off in a
moment An Edinburgh married woman swal-
lowed her false tooth the other day. Despite the
doctors, she died wjthin 24 hours.... It is as inex-
cusable as it is painful, in these days of dainty pro-
ducts, to wear a corset that can be seen a hundred
yards; that shows where it begins and where it
ends, and ail its ribs and gathers, and that sticks
out in front at the bottom and on top at the back
in a manner as revealing as it is disfiguring—A
man wagered with a woman that he would thread
. a needle in lees time than she would sharpen a lead
penoil. Ho won; time 7 min. 35 secs. But the
woman had run out of pencils in six minutes, so
she hadn't a chance....The Victorian Chief Com-
missioner has issued an edict to the mounted police
in the N.E. District, that no constable is to marry
unless he is fit to take charge of a station. There
is nothing, however, said in the regulations about
flirting, or accepting cold meat from fair hands....
At Noumea, a French convict wanted to marry a
female prisoner, and permission was given, con-
ditionally on his proving that he was a widower.
“Am I not here for murdering my wife? he
asked. Which was convincing — In a certain
country Public School out West, the girl-.no, the
“young lady”—pupils, when going through the
usual elementary calisthenic exercises customary
In such institutions, always, through the whole
performance, heroically carry their open
parasols in order to prevent a glimpse of the
sun from visiting their tender epidermis
A new club to be started in-Melbourne. The mem-
bers are to be exclusively ladies, who will have the
privilege of introducing their male friends. The
president is the fair creature who recently took
one of the principal parti in that highly moral
drama in Toorak, and which might have terminated
in a tragedy but for the kindness of Policeman X.
Madame Heine, widow of the poet, is dead.
She was illiterate and had never read a line of her
husband’s poetry; yet their married life was sin-
gularly congenial and happy—Miss Topsy Venn,
of Hobart, has just got married. The Venu has
thus been changed —Louise Michel is described as
an elderly little spinster with coarse grey hair,
twisted up into corkscrew curls.!
A DOMESTIC MATTER.


BEAD IT ALL.
It may Save your Life.
hop bitter#
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buchu, Mandrake, and Dandelion.
“ The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘ and Valuablo Medicines in the World,
‘ and in addition contain all the best
‘and most effective curative properties
‘ of all other bitters, being the greatest
* Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
‘ and life and health restoring agent on
1 earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Aged
and Infirm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
4 Men, Labourers, Ladicfc, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
4 Irregularities of the Blood, Stomach,,
4 Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
4 Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are invaluable, being
4 highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
* without intoxicating.”
44 No matter what your feelings or
4 armptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don't
‘ wait until you are slok, but if you only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘onoe. It may safe your life. Hun-
‘ drods have been saved by so doing, at
‘ a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
"Do not suffer yourself or let your
‘ friends suffer, but use and urge them to
4 use Hop Bitters.”
44 Remember, Hop Bitters la no vile,
‘drugged, drunken nostrum, but the
‘purest and best Medicine ever made,
‘and no person or family should bo
4 without ft.”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO.,
Melbourne, Australia, Rochester, N. Y.,U. 8.
A., Toronto, London, Antwerp, Paris.
G RAHAM.
531
George St., Sydney.
Palace of Fashion
and Art.
44 The Apparel oft proclaims the Man.”
M
R. J. GRAHAM has recently returned from
a Special
BUSINESS TOUR
in the United States and Europe (London, Paris,
Berlin, &c.), and has arranged for the introduction
per each Mall Steamer of the
Newest, Costliest, and Most Fashionable
CLOTHING MATERIAL,
simultaneously with their introduction by the
fashionable Houses of London and Paris, &o.
CLOTHING is made up at the shortest notice by
the beet talent in Australia and London, and exact
reproductions of London and Paris Fashions in
Art and Material guaranteed.
Ballroom and Bridal Outfits, and Evening Dress
Suita, in a style unequalled or unsurpassed.
Mr. J. Graham speaks through the Pres# to the
gentlemen in the most distant parts of the interior.
Prompt attention and Advice given in matters of
Drees, Style, Ac., with instructions for measure*
ment, free of cost, and the beet and most satisfac-
tory results guaranteed.
XW For the protection of the Public, the name
GRAHAM and the figures BS1 are of mammoth
dimensions—the largest on any establishment in
all Australia.
™ ■ The Fashionable World of Australia, and
the great middle class of the cities and towns as
well, are requested to continually note the an-
nouncements in this column, from
J. GRAHAM, Tailor,
831 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IF vour Chemist or Grocer cannot or will not
supply you with the 44 PAINLESS CORN
RELIEVER,” write direct to the Registered Pro-
prietor, who will forward a bottle to all parts of
Australasia, Post Free, for 2s. 6d.
Address:—JOHN CLOWES,
One Mile Creek, Gympie.
DANCING.— Professor WEST returned from
Europe. Beginners and advanced hall classes,
Mondays and Thursdays, at 8 p.ra.; afternoon
classes, Mondays and Thursday#, 4.30 p.m.; Special
Waltz and Minuet classes, Wednesday, 5 p.m.; pri-
X. i \In«r wolfrr fonffhf in dl Y lAHflnnfl.
waltz, quadrilles, French cotillions, minuet de la
cour, latter danced everywhere by the ante (see
London, Paris, Berlin, and New York papers). The
minuet may be danced by one, two. or four people-
only at parties.
A little stealing is a dangerous part;
But stealing largely is a noble art:
’Tis mean to rob a hen-roost or a hen,
But stealing millions makes us gentlemen.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Cougha Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief;
a small bottle often cures. Ask for Arnold s
and get it; spurious imitations are sometimes
offered.
Nowhere perhaps has the dentist’s art obtained
such high excellence as In Sydney. Certainly we
are in no sense behind any Visitorsi to
Sydney to te*t this, visit the establishment
of Messrs. Adolphe Gabriel and Company, 18_Wyn-
yard Square, two doors from Pfahlerts Hotel.
Hero the manufacture of every essential in the
profession is carried on. At the rear of
Is a compact little factory where ail the requites
for supplying every dental defect in the human
mouth are made. Messrs. Gabriel and Co. (whose
only address is as above) are always Teased to
show their specimens of artificial teeth Jo those
interested. There beinp two firms ( of same
Hotel.—Ad-tb.
£2000.—The “Australasia Sweep on the
Melbourne Cup 99 Is for JB2000, at P® r sharo--
an even four, 20s. First horse takes £10&; second,
£500 ■ third J^350; starters, £150; non-starters, £100.
S, £2(M)V and £1000 distributed in Prizes. Be-
suite of drawing will be advertised in Syndey and
Melbourne papers, and result circulars mailed to
all subscribers throughout the colonies. Those
making application are requested to enclose notes
in registered letter; or if crossed cheques, payable
to “Australasia” or Bearer (with exchange stomps
added), and 4d. stamps for reply and result. Appli-
cation, as usual, by registered letter. Ten per cent,
deducted for all expenses. Address— Austral-
asia,” care of Mr. H. J. Franklin, publisher, 40
Hunter-street, Sydney.—Advt.
UBLIC NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 482 and 484,
REMOVED TO
471 GEORGE STREET,
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
Or, TWO DOORS NORTH OF OLD SHOP.
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
tWe shall be glad to have this index posted up by
1 secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general .]
RACING.
A.B.C. (Adelaide) Autumu Ma3 M^vlt‘
Newcastle J.C
T nc ! 4 May 24.
Plattsburg and' Wallsend Amateur T.C May '&•
Sydney T.C 34*
fciSf o :m.S »:
r;...
Mudgee Tattersalls Meeting May «il.
JC
Mackay T C •' jSSIUsl
wXmLJC J ' C 20^21.
K£>.c: r: 'sM
Clarence River J.C. Annual if’
Deniliquin Racing Club - • f -{«
South warrego J.C ••••;••■ i J r 8 « «
ATP finfinir S6Pt©Ult)6r lj 4, O, O.
' ‘ :-T. ... November 9.
Clarence River J.C. (Amateur) November 9.
PEDBSTRIANI8M.
Blayney A.C. May **•
AQUATICS
Champagne Cup J * n ® 16>
COURSING
Victoria Club July W.Au^.t».
South Australian Club ■■■■■■-■ v Is'
Australian dob May 26, June g.
BICYCLING.
Suburban Bicycle Club Sports
Sydney B.C. Sport* .August
FOOTBALL.
South Melbourne v. Sydney Clubs, As-
sociation Ground .••■••• -■ -. July 7,10, i».
South Melbourne v. New South Wales,
Association Grouhd juiy
BOXING __ „
Miller r. Foley '••••• May
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
At Cambridge (Auckland, N.Z.) races,
Larrv. by Deadshot (Mata’s sire), won the big event
on each of the two days of the meeting.
Mr. H. Reynolds, of Gippsland (Vic.) shot
86 birds out of 88, at a pigeon match lately. He
will be one of the Victorian representatives in the
coming Intercolonial match.
The starting on Saturday was in “ Sydney
stylo—that is, pistol off while a man if walking
across to his post, or when some are half round
the course. Anyone forwarding directions for the
use of hair-triggers to the Association GroundjWill
confer a favour on competitors in winning races.
Captain Webb and W. Beckwith have been
challenged by one Salvator Lamoyna. who avera
that he has swum from the Cape of Posiupo to
the Caatel dell Ovo (three kilometres) without
resting. Lamoyna holds the diploma and silver
medal from the Italian Gymnaatical Congress, held
In Naples. ' . .
Hanlan has issued what he states to be his
ultimatum to Wallace Boss, in which he agrees to
row the latter for £500, but also stipulates that the
winner takes the whole of the receipts accruing
from allowances from railway cpanies. steam-
boats, &c., or, he will row for £600 a side, and the
winner to take two-thirds and the loser one-third
of the above-named receipts.
The “men” who were at the children’s
sports on Saturday must have been .
trusted at some of the events, notably the mile
walking match, in which the competitors, babies
of about nine or ten years, urged °n toapiteh of
intense excitement by 8on \® 1 JSnS
succeeds t in making an exhibition only excelled
by the late women’s six days go-as-you-please.
At Adelaide, Joe Thompson, the ‘‘levia-
than” bookmaker, resisted the attempt of Blackler
and Ferry, lessees of the old course, to impose £10
tax on the raetallicians visiting the ground. On
refusing to leave the course, he wiis arrented. He
Is now suing Blackler and Ferry for £5000. De-
fendant’s plea, which appears a very miserable
one, is that the bookmakers of Melbourne are
subject to a similar tax.
A butcher went to the totalisator-offlee
window at Adelaide meeting, just as the Cup was
about to start, and in his excitement called out
“1,” Sting’s number, instead of the number of
another nag he wished to support. The clerk,
being anxious to see the race, refusedtochange
the ticket, much to the disgust of the butcher,
who, however, speedily altered his tune when he
found he had landed £70.
Wattie, the well-known N.Z. jockey, who
is in Mr. G. C. Stead’s employ, arrived in Sydney
by the Union Co.’s steamer Walhora. During the
racing season there now drawing to a close, Wattie
has ridden thirty winners, including one private
match. His best wins were with Mischief in the
Wellington Cup and Napier Handicap, while it
will be remembered on his first leg-up on
Tasman, he got second to Welcome Jack in the
Great Autumn Handicap.
Warruambool beat Adelaide very badly
indeed at polo. If there was o n . e .
another where Adelaide might fairly have voted
Itself equal to Eastern sport, polo was the thing.
To-day, that is all changed. South Australian
polo went to pieces like South Australian cricket.
Ten goals to four is a fearful record. This is how
the game against Warrnambool ended, anyhow;
and there is no balm in Gilead for Lance Stirling
and Arthur Malcom now-adays.
We learn (of course, with breathless in-
terest!) that Edwards, the walker, is to “ bid fare-
well to the track and settle down in business in
Sydney." Oh, indeed? This is a good hearing, if
you like! We have long admired Mr. Edwards
from a distance, but we never that such
luck would be in store for us as to retain bun tor
ever in our midst. However, it seems it is thus to
be! 0, let us be joyful! We have haycock, we
have Trickett, we have Perkins —all settled down
in Sydney; and If O'Leary could only be persuaded
to do likewise, our happiness would be complete.
It was years ago, but this is how the mys-
tery is cleared up. The sporting affair at Rand-
wick in which' the Barb beat Tim Whifller, and
was disqualified for short weight, won several
well-known gentlemen a lot of money. The thing
was known to a few before the horses left the
paddock. This proves the correctness of old John
Tait’s expressed conviction at the time —that the
fiasco was not owing to an accident. Here it may
as well be mentioned that all the time John Tait
was running horses, he never made a money-
wager. The Barb-TimWhifller affair nearly drove
him from the turf in the zenith of his success.
The first contest for the fifty miles Pro-
fessional Bicycle Championship and a trophy, value
£20, came off recently at Leicester (England), in
which all ’the cracks of the day, excepting John
Keen, competed. The event resulted in a French-
man named F. de Civry, winning easily. The
following are the times for each five miles Five
miles, Kmin. 20sec.; ten miles. 36min. 5sec.;
fifteen miles, 54min. 13sec.: twenty mile, Ih.lSinin.
34sec; twenty-five miles, Jh. 31min 13sec.; thirty
miles, Ih. 50min. 63 sec.; thirty-five miles, 2h. 9min.
Isec.; forty miles, 2h. 30min. 37sec.; forty-five
miles, 2h. 51min. 37sec.; fifty miles, 3h. 13mln,
14sec.
Sharland promises to make things lively in
the Krug race. Writing of his rowing in the
Derwent Rowing Club Regatta, the Mercury
says:—“The result of this race was a veritable
triumph for the champion sculler of the colony,
who gave starts ranging from 30sec. to 1mm.
35sec., and yet managed, by his superior skill, to
outstrip all his competitors and secure first place.
Sharland was so severely handicapped that, not-
withstanding his well-known sculling power, his
chances of catching up with Bruiser were not con-
sidered very good. That he succeeded, therefore,
in so short a course, in accomplishing the feat, is a
matter on which he may be heartily congratu-
lated.”
At the Oxford-Carabridge Sports, Cam-
bridge atoned for its defeat in the boat-race by
again asserting its supremacy on the running patn,
and obtaining the odd event for the sixth time in
seven years. The following record of the winning
performances will interest colonial athletes.
Putting the weight (161b.) : J. H. Ware, Brasenose,
Oxford. 36ft. 10)|in., 1; J. R. O. Deykm, Pembroke,
Oxford, 34ft. Last year’s winning throw was
am. llin. 100 Yards Race ; W. C. Mosse,Corpus,
Cambridge. 1. Time, lOmin. 2-5sec. One Mile Race:
W. D. La Touche, Pembroke, Cambridge, 1. Time,
4rain. 34 4-3sec. Won by four seconds. High
Jump: G. L. Colbourne, Corpus, Cambridge, oft.
89£in., which jump also won last year. Throwing
the Hammer (16b.): F. P. Le Marchand, Queen s
Oxford, (95ft. 8in.). Last year this event was won,
with a throw of 101ft. 10in.; in 1881, W. Laurence
was successful with 120ft., 2in.; while in 1875 and
1876. G. H. Hales threw 127ft. and 138ft. respectively.
440 tards Race : B. P. Powell, Trinity, Cambridge,
L Time, 52min. 3-5sec. Last years record was
50min. 2-5sec., which is the best so far. 120 Yards
Hurdles (ten flights): C. L. Dea-Graz, Trinity, Cam-
bridge. Time, 17inin. l-5sec. Jump ; M. B,
Peacock, Trinity. Oxford. 20ft. 3M»in. In 1874, E.
J. Davies jumped 22ft. Three Miles Race.
W. W. Hough, Corpus, Cara., won by 160 yards, in
15min. 29 l-6sec.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Gibson, of Newcastle, and Thomas, of Walls-
end, run 150 yards for £20 aside at Waratan, 22nd
June.... A match has been arranged at Herborton
for Queen’s Birthday between the lady owners of
two horses not unknown to local fame, with owners
up,... Since Boxing-day, his trainer the other day
stated, Devlin, Victorian hurdle-racer, has travelled
600 miles to attend meetings, walked or gal-
loped 1000 miles when exercising, competed In thir-
teen races, and cleared 172 jumps. And, after all,
he was only fast enough to lose. .Thus AGas •
“ The money (£700 a man) made by the Australian
team in their English tour is said to recoup the loss
sustained in an enforced absence from business.
How many of the last Australian team, I venture
to ask, make £700 in six months at their ordinary
business ”?... .The Bundaberg J.C. has invented a
new rule for hurdle races—each horse to take a
trial jump in front of the stand to qualify itself a
starter. Why not also stipulate that each horse
must gallop, say, half a mile, by way of trial in loss
than a given number of seconds just before each
race ?. ..Mr. Dillon, of Wilcannia, who seems to
have more than a fair share of bad luck—it was his
horse Terminus whose throat wafl cut by_Messrs.
Roberts and Co—has now lost his nag Vulture,
who died of inflammation.....The Wilcannia bil-
liard tournament, for which 27 entered, was won
by Mr. A. G. Slade, who gave his last opponent
55 out of 200, and won by 4fi
Barnett and W. Johnston, for prize-flghtiug on
Adelaide racecourse, have been fined £10 eacn....
At Adelaide, Sutton, the English bookmaker, sued
Thomas M'Elllstor for £99 for malicious siander
contained In a letter sent to Tattersall s by M El-
lister. A verdict was given for 40s. damages, each
to pay his own costs. The case arose out of a
dispute between the pair in reference to a wager,
which was decided in favour of M Bllister, who
was awarded £350. This amount was subse-
quently reduced to £150, and on Sutton neglect-
ing to pay that sum, M Ell is ter declared him
to be a defaulter, and wrote accordingly
The Public Schools’ four-oar race at Melbourne
was won by the Melbourne Grammar School,
Scotch College second—A dinner was
the 17th to the Victorian crew in the lateeight-oar
contest at Gunsler’s Caf<5, Melbourne. Usual
toasts and same old responses....In the Selling
Race at the Ashburton (N.Z.) meeting .the totali-
sator paid a nice little dividend of £00 10s- to woh
of the four investors on the winner. Why don t
they introduce the machine on N.S.W. race-
courses?.... At Christchurch there has been a lot
of for Leos for the New
He has been backed for a small amount at 100 s to
s F. N. Robinson, of Christchurch, was the win-
ner of the Champion Cup at the South Canterbury
(N.Z.) Amateur Athletic Club sports this year....
Long odds were laid on Saturday that a well-
known bicyclist would famt at the finish . but
owing to the water thrown on his face, the wager
was a boil over Barnett certainly had hard luck
on Saturday in the bicycle race. It was tolerably
evident that but for his mishap in the last Ian
there would have been a different verdict.. . .At
the old Melbourne racecourse, the other morning,
a fight took place between one Larper, of Emerald
Hill, and an unknown man, for a wager. Larper,
who was the heavier, won in half T an-hour, his
opponent being pretty severely punished The
Hav Jockey Club’s receipts for the season are
£12§0, leaving a credit balance of £100.... A special
meeting is to be held by the Hay Jockey Club to
consider the case of Roberts, the horse-butcher...
Messrs C T Studd and Vernon have been having
a good time inN.Z. While at Christchurch, they
a visit to Mr. Pocock’s excellent wintor cnc-
ket pavilion and indulged in an hour 8 practice.
While they were driving in a cab towards Lan-
caster Park, their journey was brought to an un-
expected and rather unpleasant termination by
the cab-horse dropping dead on the road ...
chased by Mr. Hunter for 1000 guineas, and Little
Jack has been sold to Mr. Weekes, the owner of
Stinr for 300 sovs... The man who was most as-
tonished and disgusted at
laide Cup was the owner, who laid hat* with a
friend against the horse. He has, however, backed
Sting heavily to win the Birthday Cup. wRb 9st.
81b. up.... Splendour, belonging to Mr. G.O. Stead,
nf N Z who won the Payne Stake# with him at
Newmarket, is engaged in the English Derby.. ..
Dirk Hatteraick, who has been performing so well
in Adelaide, is by Smuggler from Paradox, amare
belonging to Dr. Bathe, of Adelaide. . ..Mr. Wood-
housed painting of Assyrian, the Melbourne Cup
winner, is considered to be that artist’s master-
piece. , , •
A match has been made between Wild Plant,
winner of the recent coursing match for the
Waterloo Cup in England, and Destruction, for
£500 a side. Best two out of three.... Mace s Maori
£roteg<i is evidently considered very small in the
boxing world by the New Yorkers. Mace, on
leaving that city, stated he had offered to back
Slide against Mr, Robinson, the champion amateur,
pither to fight or box, which is emphatically
denied by Robinson.... Harry Kelley, the veteran
ex-champion, has been engaged by M. Buxenstein,
of the Berlin Rowing Club, to tram a crew for the
great regatta on 20th June next....Willie Beck-
with and Matthew Webb signed arUciesto
swim a twenty mile race at the Lambeth
Baths (England), for £100aside on April 30, last..
A prize-fight recently took place in the drawing-
room of Col. Robine, a wealthy New Yorker. To
his richly furnished drawing-room he invited a
select company of thirty gentlemen. On the rich
Brussels carpet was chalked a ring, and on top of
the chalk mark silver sand was spread. Two
prize fighters followed the company in—John
O’Neal, of Pittsburg, and James Kohne, of Phila-
delphia, and the colonel welcomed them with
“Gentlemen, it’s not often such a nice place is
selected for a fight, so do your best. and
the man who wins gets £50 in gold. rhmty
three rounds were fought, and 0 Neal won.
Both men were much out and bruised
Manchester Cup of 1000 aovs: Primrose, Palermo,
Alban .. Vignaux, the French billiard champion,
stands 6 ft. 1 in. In his boots, and uses a 30 oz. cue
George Abercrombie and Charles Cheltenham
fought recently at the Grays, Kent. In the first
round, Abercrombie was placed hors de combat by
a tremendous blow on the nose. Next rouna
Cheltenham forced the fighting, but was met most
scientifically. Then Cheltenham came to grief
by rushing at his opponent, who stepped
aside and landed him. After several more
rounds Cheltenham failed to come to time.
The men meet again for doubled stakes....
I Mr. A. W. Sinclair, the well-known English
amateur long-distance walker, who coached w.
Franks in his contest for the Marylebone 30-mile
walking handicap challenge belt, has got into
trouble with his club for having filled a post
usually occupied by a professional... The eleventn
annual chess match between the representative
players of the Universities of Oxford and Cam-
brd'ige took place recently at Piccadilly, Eng.
Seven players from each University were engaged,
with the result that each side won four games, and
as the other three, which were drawn were
divided, it was a drawn contest. This is the first
occasion in which such a result has been arrived
at, as of the ten matches which had been Previously
played, Cambridge had won seven and Oxford
three.
“OUR VESSEL OF PAIN.”
After ALGERNON CHARLES SWINBURNE.
A wail from a weary wayfarer, a sigh from the
sharp-setting- sea, ,, „,
O, ocean-Iine-toiuist ensnarer, my lay is for thee I
A dirge of detestable dinners—of the drinks which
To drink is to die —
Set before us sea-sick-strickon sinners,
I cry me a cry 1
Oh, what, and oh where, are the stories,
Ocean-line, I have heard of thy fame:
Of thy past time, the glamour, the glories,
Remains but the name? .
Did they dine as men dine who like dining.
Who so fulsomely flattered thy fare;
Or lived they, nor dreamt of repining,
Like chamelons, on air?
For thy soup hath a salt-sea savour.
And it burns, and bubbles, and brings
A faint and a feculent flavour—
Of all sorts of things 1
Be it thin as the wan-warm water?
Be it thick with the thickness of mud?
Pure or pale, or as red from the slaughter,
Suggestive of blood?
Call it mockingly “mulligatawny,” prop up the
frail Action with rice,
’Tls but bewitched “ plnl ka pan! —
None taste of it twice I
Off, off, with that soft-sodden salmon,
That tastes more of tin thaa of fish;
It, too, like your bacon, is gammon—
Detestable dish.
Then the joints: Would the greediest glutton—
Of coarse gormandlsers the chief—
Not make mouths at those mountains of mutton,
Those gobbets of beef 1
Cold cutlets that curl up and quiver.
Those lumplets of lights and of fat.
Weird figment# of sausage and liven-
Fit food for a cat I
Then, the wines! They are ne’er very handy
To assuage or to slaken our thirst,
Save those bottles of single-star brandy—
A compound accursed I
The claret’s the thinnest, the tartest;
“Swipes” the ale is; the stout, second sort;
And, oh I mixed by some murderous artist.
Good heavens! the port.
Cut your priee; for excessive vour fare is,
Amend your mendacious rntnu;
Only one peck of dirt each man’s share is,
You would fain make it two I
Let your poison give place to good liquor.
That a man may partake of and live I
Not stuff that a sick man makes sicker—
It’s not mueh to give.
And, I charge you, you quicken your paces.
Or you’ll surely b© beaten at last;
To the swiftest of steamers the race is—
You may be surpassed 1
Then off and away o’er the water,
And wherever your flag is unfurled.
Behave as an ocean-line “ oughter,
And challenge the world!
Tour dividends, then, shall be doubled,
Your shares in the market will rise;
Your repose, yea, no more will be troubled
But woalls§aU then chuckle and chortle,
And this poet will sing in your praise;
A Swinburnian pcean immortal
Long and loud will he raise.


F
H
URNITURK SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Springs treets, Sydney.
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS, and
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Library furniture,'centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb, Furniture Importers, Spring and
O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy ot
inspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
OVBLTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
J3I SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
AFTERNOON TEA TABLES, elegant and inex-
pensive. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell-street.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-'
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
BILLIARD TABLES, full size, with appurten-
ances ; also smaller Convertible Tables, 7 and
8 feet—may be used as dining tables. Now on view,
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, Importers, Spring
and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at lowest prices. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Importers,
O ’ Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wadrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Eight-pound bedroom suites.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY,
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 20s ;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s ; Open Book-
cases, from 35s ; Chests Drawers, from 40s ; Wash-
stands, from 10s 6d ; Tables, from 7s 6d ; Wardrobes,
from 80s ; Dining Tables, from 20s ; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 25s; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s ;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s ; Kitchen Tables from
10s ; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
85s.
BRADLEY,
NEWTON,
and LAMB,
SYDNEY.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold with Side
Shelves, 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
FURNITURE.— The Largest Stock in the
Colony. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell-street.
,RAWING-ROOM CABINETS—Early English,
Anglo-Japanese, and Chippendale designs,
ust opened. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
streets.
ININ G-R O O M FURNITURE.—Magnificent
Suites in Walnut Oak, and Mahogany. Side-
boards, Dinner Waggons, &c., to match. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O’Connell streets.
RAMEWORK for DRAWING and DINING
ROOM FURNITURE, Handsome and Massive,
in Oak, Walnut and Mahogany. The VERY BEST
REAL MOROCCO SKINS, and Materials for up-
holstery. Open to inspection, BRADLEY, NBW-
TON, and LAMB.
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass ;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
B
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Cou-
nell-street.
w
ASHSTANDS, with marble, 25seach. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
G
ARDEN SEATS and Verandah Chairs.—Brad-
ley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
S'
BENTWOOD FURNITURE—A very complete
Assortment, just opened; many quite new
designs.
CCASIONAL CHAIRS in VERY GREAT
Variety, Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
FPICE FURNITURE, WRITING - TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb, O’Connell-stroet.
IRON SAFES, various sizes. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
ICE CHESTS, all sizes, very superior make. Ex-
amine before purchasing. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring imd O’Cpnnell streets.
THIN WAY NEW YORK PIANOS, the FINEST
in the world. A SHIPMENT just landed.
OQ GUINEA PIANO, WARRANTED sound
and durable, in solid walnut ease ; specially
adapted for beginners or schools.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB. _
0/"'vGUINEA PIANO, brilliant toned, full com-
OU pass, all the latest improvements, in hand-
some walnut case; WARRANTED SOUND and
DURABLE ; BEST VALUE in the trade.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
T IPf’S C BLEB It A T E I) PI AN OS,
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
have received
another LARGE SHIPMENT
of
R. LIPP and SONS’ celebrated PIANOFORTES
direct from the Makers, comprising TALL
GRANDS, LITTLE UPRIGHT, GRANDS, SA-
LOON GRANDS, VERY HANDSOME and of the
HIG HEST CLASS FINISH,
WALNUT and BLACK GOLD.
WE HAVE NOW THE LARGEST STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA OF
LIPP’S PIANOS
TO SELECT FROM.
WE INVITE INSPECTION.
FOR PRIVATE SALE AT EXTREMELY LOW
PRICES.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Pianoforte Importers,
O’Connell and Spring streets.
Balls, Banquets, Public or Private Parties.
Ballrooms tastefully decorated with Flag or Floral
Decorations on reasonable temrs — Sale and Dabl,
00)4 Hunter-street.*
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Woods leave by the
Sydney for London on Saturday, and a number of
friends go down the harbour to see them over the
crest of the tlrst wave. Laurels await them in the
Old World—it’s to be hoped.
“The Romance of the Peerage” is a very
interesting book, and contains many curious facts
relating- to our nobility. We doubt, however, if it
has one more so than that arising out of the death
of the late Earl of Stamford. Having no children,
and the estates being unentailed, his lordship has
left the bulk of his property to his widow and
immediate relatives, but has also quite voluntarily
left £30,000 to his successor in the title, a remote
connection with whom he was not even aqualnted.
This gentleman (the Rev. Harry Grey), having lost
his tlrst wife, left England some years ago tor
Africa, where, away in the “ back blocks,” finding
himself rather lonely, he took to mate an aborigi-
nal native femme, and is surrounded by a “dusky
brood,” who live in puris naturalibus. It is, there-
fore, a fact that an African savage is now an
English Countess, and that the next Earl Stamford
will be a mulatto I But another tunny part of this
story is that no other clergyman being near, the
Rev. Mr. Grey himself performed the C. of E.
marriage service, and the question which at pre-
sent agitates the minds of the Upper Ten is, “Can
a parson marry himself?"
Mrs. Toohey sued the N.S.W. Govern-
ment for compensation for the loss of her
husband, who was killed by a steam tramway
motor in a Sydney street. A verdict was given for
the defendant, whereupon Mrs. Toohey appealed
to the Full Court, on the ground that the Govern-
ment had no power by law to run steam trams in
the streets. The Full Court has now decided that
the trams are running illegally. Many fresh writs
have been issued against the Government by
persons who have been injured, or by the relatives i
of those who have been killed by the motors; and
it has been notified to the Commissioner of Rail-
ways by some rabid anti-tram people that should
the train kill anyone else he and his men will be
charged with manslaughter. Mr. Goodchap has,
however, continued to run the trams on the score
of public convenience, and Parliament has been
summoned to pass an Act legalising existing
arrangements. The decision of the Supreme Court,
though possibly good law, is, as is frequently the
case, dead against public sentiment. Bus-horses
are doomed—so are the donkey politicians of the
past!
The coupling-chain on a Blue Mountain
goods-train snapped, near the Zig-zag. Several
trucks laden heavily with live-stock, &c., ran down
the Incline, and came with fearful force into colli-
sion with another goods-train, which was travel-
ling 15 or 20 miles an hour. The break-van was
smashed to pieces, and one or two of the trucks
mounted the (Yankee) engine. Stoker Daley was
killed, but the engine driver and an assistant
stoker escaped by jumping. A large number of
sheep and pigs were killed. Immediately after the
collision, tne train ran back, the breaks being use-
less and the engine disabled. The trucks which
broke away were pursued by the engine of the
first train, and were just overtaken when the col-
lision occurred. Verdict at the inquiry—Acci-
dental; but in future double or treble coupling to
be used. A somewhat similar occurrence took
place recently on an American railroad. One half
the passenger cars becoming disconnected ran
down an incline seven miles long, and when at tex - -
rifle speed rushed over a curve. The wreck was
followed by fire, and 21 people perished. Luckily,
pigs, not men and women, were in the Blue Moun-
tain train.
A young man recently undertook, in a
moment of weakness, to purchase a pair of garters.
He didn’t think it was anything but a simple oper-
ation. So he went in the lai’ge door*, and not
knowing exactly what part of the empoi-iunx they
were kept wandered on until he judged by the in-
teresting lithographs of feminine harness on the
showstancjB, that he was about in the latitude of
the mystic circlets. Halting at a counter presided
overby a young woman with a mischievous eye,
ho felt his face warm, but kept himself straight and
firmly asked for a pair of garters—expecting her
to hand them out forthwith. “ What kind, please ?”
she asked insinuatingly. “ Oh, something pretty
good,” he responded with a heated countenance.
“ But what style do you want ?” Then his eiTand
seemed by some mysterious process to have been
telegraphed to every girl in the shop, for they were
all eyeing*him. One of them had suddenly dis-
cove * id that the counter needed dusting, and there
she was, right where she could hear evexy word
uttered. He asked with an airy cax-elessness that
nearly made him red hot, what styles were gener-
ally called for; and the young lady began de-
scribing them minutely. There was the circular
kind, put over the foot, and the ones with clasps
and catches, and the suspender that hooked on the
waist belt, and another sort, fastened like a jib
halyard to the side of the cox-set; and then she
took down a lithogx-aph showing the way that par-
ticular harness was worn. His breath came in hard
thumps, and he looked in a dazed way at her, in
dumb appeal. But she wouldn’t help him; she
smiled, and waited. “What kind would you be
most likely to lose in the stx-eet ?” he jerked out.
The girl with the duster apparently thought of
something tunny just then, for she began laughing
immoderately. Other girls were converging to-
waxds him, all wanting articles from that counter
it seemed. Then he remembered that he hadn’t
much time, and feverishly grasping the nearest
pair of elastics he gave the girl what she asked,
watched her roll them up with maddening delibera-
tion, didn’t count his change, and with blushing
confusion ran the gauntlet of tittering assistants
and escaped through the door, looking straight be-
fore him all the tune. And as the eool breeze
fanned his cheek, he determined that the next girl
who wanted garters should buy them.
SOCIAL.
Commemoration drew a large crowd to the
University on Saturday. Some time before two
o'clock most wore in their places, and by that hour
the large hall was crammed—like the students. On
all sides could be seen the gowned and gloved
young men, pump-handling the arms of their
friends, and repaying with interest the smiles of
their lady acquaintances, who gazed with reverence
on those youthful, classic, trencher-crowned brows.
Slowly passed the procession, led by Vice-Chan-
cellor Canon Allwood, up to the platform, and as it
filed by, were seen th’e faces of the Lieutenant-
Governor, Members of the Legislature, Lawyers,
Doctors, Professors, Principals, Consuls. Follows
and Students, all in their robes, with various
symbolical trimmings of black and white, mauve
and crimson, pale blue, &c. And slowly they took
their seats on the raised rows, the venerable por-
tion below, and the youthful onesabove, all except
the four girl students, who did not gratify the
public by sitting to be looked at on the platform,
but were accommodated with front seats in the
body of the hall. His Excellency sent an apology,
being “ poorly.” Moulting, probably. The Premier
arrived when the proceedings were mid-through,
and was conducted to a chair with loud cheering.
The Vice-Chancellor’s address was quite inaudible a
dozen seats back, but it was fortunately short. The
usual lists of benefactors and of successful stu-
dents were read, and the latter were presented,
including ladles. Dr. Badham made a speech,
happy, brief, and audible; and the now Professor
of Physiology, Dr. Anderson Stuart, in very con-
spicuous red gown, spoke lucidly, with a ringing
distinctness which enabled every syllable to be
heard all over the hall. Then there were cheers
for a number of people, from the Queen down to
the Registrar, and the ceremony, which lasted an
hour and a half, was over. It was a decidedly slow
affair, by no means equal to the days when Sir
Hercules used to make his happy orations; and It
was none the less so because many ladies, who
composed by far the larger half of the gathering,
had to stand all the time, and could hear very
little of what was said. The usual knots congre-
gated to chatter outside, and criticise each other
and other people, and what they wore, and how
they looked; and it’s fair to say that many looked
exceedingly nice, and the dresses were tasteful
and interesting. While some lingered yet awhile
in the hall to exchange congratulations, and to
listen to the organ’s music pealed out under the
manipulation of Mr. Alex. Rea.
The first Woollahra Assembly Ball was
f riven at “Nithsdale” on Friday night; and if the
ight and life, and mirth and music of this dance
bo a fair prelude, the others will be very popular.
Woollahra being essentially a “crumpled rose-
leaf ” suburb, any festivity connected with it must
of necessity be aristocratic, and these balls are as
select as they can be made. A few of the bright
familiar faces, like last year’s leaves, are gone we
know not where. Spme, no doubt, are those of the
dear girls who have grown weary of the single
sunshine of their summer lives, and have bright-
ened some envied fellow’s happy home. If it be
true, as Cowper says, that “dress makes our cellar
dry, and keeps our larder lean,” then wine and food
must bo scanty in Woollahra villas to-day, tor the
millinery was both costly and extensive. Dancing
began at eight exactly; and those who were late
had to share the same fate as ourselves—that of
door loungers, for ladies were scarce. We didn’t
object so very much to that, while compensated
by the opportunity of noticing their charming
taste and happy looks. A lady from Edgeclitf
Road wore a cream silk beautifully trimmed
with same pompadour, and blonde lace. From
thence, too, came a young lady whose name
commences with “a big, big’’—emphatic letter,
who looked charming in her pink silk, white
and cream lace. Two sisters from Roseneath,
one in brocaded velvet, with sealbrown plush
skirt, the other in old gold and pansies, won golden
opinions. The wife- of a young solicitor from
Stanmore, in all pink, was accompanied by a young
lady from Enmore, in cream and cardinal. Mrs.
Ward wore a handsome costume of black and gold,
and beautifully harmonising were “nature’s
jewels,” the cloth of gold roses, that adorned the
dress. Of the demoiselles, to a tall young lady in
cream silk would the title of belle be awarded,
while the brunette wife of a young doctor should
have first mention among the matrons, in her
bewitching attire of cream trimmed with gold
maid. From Trafalgar came a cost ume of cardinal
and cream lace, pearl necklace. Miss Davies was
most attractive in cream skirt and black velvet
bodice, white lace trimmed; and Miss Lee in black
silk and bugled tulle. Wcllington-street sent three
pretty sisters, who dressed neatly and danced
reatly. A consul’s daughter was beautiful in
cream; Miss Keating, in pink silk, white lace, and
gold bands, a Surry Hills lady in black satin, and a
Tasmanian belle in black with gold lace trimmings,
who came from the Waverley Road, were all
among the conspicuous beauties. The captain and
oincers of the Lusitania were also very lovely in
navy blue trimmed with gold lace. About twenty
dances were negotiated, to the capital music of the
trio band provided by Mr. Ernest Needs, and soon
after 1 a.m. a special tram came along—illegally, of
course—and took the revellers home.
* * *
A juvenile ball was given at “ Orwell
House" to mark the birthday of Mr. Louis
Phillips’ son. The large drawing-room was com-
fortably filled with young folks in choice dresses,
the most noticeable being that of a little maid from
“The Hopes.” Two daughters of the hostess and
a Macquarie-street cousin were charming, all
dressed alike; and so wore a lady from Darling-
hurst-road in light pink, and a Brisbane visitor
in light blue. Many presents were given to
Master Phillips, not the least being a cheque of
three figures.
* * *
At scarcely any place but Botany could the
complimentary picnic to Mr. Archibald Forsyth
have been a success on such a forbidding day; but,
despite the rain, the number of his friends who
went out in a special tram on Tuesday week had a
capital day’s amusement in the ample pavilion
there. A stringed orchestra provided for the
dancing, and some tried rinking, while others
plaved quoits and other games. Most of the ladies
wore quiet toilets, Mrs. Forsyth choosing black
brochtS, and Miss Forsyth in a brown costume
was admirably suited. A married lady from
George-street displayed a handsome combination
of brown plush and apiber skirt, bonnet to match;
and a good dancer from Moore Park was in cream
and figured silk top and brown underskirt. A por-
tion of the pavilion was turned into a dining-room
and decorated by Hags and greenery, and a good
dinner by Host Smith. Speeches were all about
bowls, and cigars wore handed round, though pipes
would have been more impropriate —because of
their bowls, you know. Mr. Forsyth, as president
of the City Bowling Club, was presented by his
fellow members with a diamond locket; and no
doubt he spends most of his time now on the briny
deep gazing at it in affectionate remembrance of
the donors. For he’s bowling along in a mail boat
to England,
• • •
On Saturday, 12th May, the cricket club
connected with Messrs. Precious, Doust, and Co.’s
firm marked the close of the season by a dinner
trip to Chowder Bay, in the Meteor. Mr. G. B.
Hirst presided, with Mr. W. S. Coulter in the
vice-chair. After dinner and speeches, a
scratch match was played, and a start was
made for home at dusk. Oh! and about a
young man who nearly got killed. He was never
niuch of a cricketer, though he made a good
“long-stop” at the dinner table, so it was not
strange that he conscientiously dropped every ball
he ought to have caught. When they remon-
strated with him, he said, “ Well, sposon I did
mull it, you needn’t kick up such a Precious
Doust about it!” Now, is it any wonder they
nearly killed that young man '(
* * *
One of the largest and most fashionable
audiences ever crushed into the Protestant Hall
filled it on the 15th May, when an amateur concert
in aid of the National Shipwreck Relief Society
was given. Everyone was in full dress, and the
uniforms of naval officers varied the scene.
Visitors in the intervals moved about and talked
to their friends in a social manner quite comfort-
able to watch, but not often practised. The com-
plete programmes were singularly nice, and some
of the musical items performed by amateurs were
of a highly finished character, far superior to
what can generally bo heard. There was a chorus
of about twenty well-known society ladles; and a
novelty was the chorus of “ Launch the Lifeboat,”
rendered by the fine deep voices of a body of the
Nelson men. Miss Pedley and Herr Krctschmann
assisted ably. Bouquets were without end, one
lady suffering the painful pleasure of having to
stoop seven times to gather up her tributes of
appreciation. Commodore Erskine walked up to
the platform with two or three, and personally
presented them. The Shipwreck Society must
nave netted a largo sum.
• • *
The Grammar School boy* were very for-
tunate, for we are convinced they had a dry day
specially made for them. It was thrown in among
all those wet ones in the handiest way possible.
Some of the youngsters’ races were verv amusing,
particularly the walking contest, in which about
forty boys, starting from various handicaps,
seemed almost to fence in the ground; and as
each boy got “baked,” he cleared modestly off
the track in a most plucky manner. Some races
were very tamo : the bicycle, won by Leo in a
rush, very lively. There was a good attendance.
Mrs. Steel wore long sealskin jacket; Miss Smith,
of Marrickville, plush and Satin, hat to match;
Mrs. Doyle, a nice drab-coloured dress; Miss Day,
black silk; Miss Cohen, brown broche and sash of
same hue. A young lady from Stanmore was
pretty in snuff-ooloured panier dress; a pretty Ul-
timo girl wore a well-fitting black silk. Others were:
A dark brown satin, hand-painted with design of
pink and white dasies. Black satin with painting
of pink roses and maiden-hair terns; a tall lady in
black satin profusely beaded in steel; two sisters
in sulphur-coloured nun’s-veiling, with ruby trim-
ming, and hats to match; a pair of very tasteful,
dark green, plaited skirts, with top puffy; skirts of
same coloured velvet. A petite blonde, in peacock
satin, with white lace trimmings; two Juices in
brown velvet dresses with gilt buttons, brown hats
and old gold feathers. Many “four-in-hands”
were worn, the prevailing material being dull
tartans, most of them fastened at the throat with
the now fashionable cloak fasteners. A navy blue
satin, beaded with moonlight beads, looked well
worthy the trouble it must have cost. Many wore
those stylish and becoming “ Claude Duval ” hats,
some heavy with plumes, others with asimple band
and buckle. One decided crinoline was to bo seen,
and several criuolettes—ah!
* * * *
Lovers of excitement will have a rare treat
on Saturday, when the sports meeting of the
Suburban Bicycle Club will afford an afternoon
almost entirely devoted to the graceful wheelers.
Every provision has been made to ensure success,
and the full City Band will play during and be-
tween the races At the calico ball of the Bri-
tannia C.C., Parramatta, special seats will be ar-
ranged for those who want to look on as spectators
only Cpotamundra rink started Bachelors’
ball at Casino a tew nights ago Walgett Hos-
pital ball is notified for June 20 A “ lunch soci-
able” is the name of a new invention of some
church society ladies in California. Each lady
provides a dainty little lunch basket containing
Just enough for two; envelopes with each lady’s
name in one are all put in a basket tor purchase.
Whatever lady’s name a gentleman buys, that
lady becomes Ids partner for lunch, and, we pre-
sume, accompanies him if he wants to go and look
tor ferns. It is evident the plan may be expanded
into infinite usefulness. And it’s awful tun for
the young man it the lady happens to be about
39 .. .Last Thursday, a social assembly took place
in the Randwlck Town Hall, when a large number
of pretty toes and Ivo Blighs tripped it on the
floor for several hours, to music supplied by a
very dexterous young gentleman from town. There
are social gatherings every fortnight.. .The Gover-
nor of Victoria gives an official dinner to-night —
A number of gentlemen of the Newtown and
Canterbury districts had an excursion, with the
local Members and Mr. S. Cook, as their guests,
last week. Woniora, Kurnell, and other places
were visited, and dinner partaken of at 3 o’clock,
when, of course, there was a flow of soul of the
usual saponaceous character—Mr. Fremlin, M.P.,
for Redtern, was banqueted at Botany, on the 14th,
because the Botany people are so sorry to lose
such a nice man. He is changing his residence to
Redfern Mrs. Goldman’s juvenile fancy ball at
“Prudhoe,” Darling Point, was postponed from
the 15th, owing to bad weather, till the 33nd
instant ... .There was a lively Spelling Bee at Pater-
son, lately, in the School of Arts, when three com-
petitions took place. One, a new idea, was a
consolation prize. And a very good idea, too, for
it ever a man wants consolation it’s when he dis-
covers tor the first time that there’s no “f” in
“ catastrophe,” or has to admit before a public
audience that he can’t spell “ buhl ” as easily as
“bull,” or “ pentahexahedral,” anyhow he tries..
A certain officer of a man-of-war at Hobart asked
the wealthy parent of the girl whom he loved
with his whole soul, what he intended to give as
her dower. “ Nothing,” said Pa, hotly. “Then,”
replied the naval hero, “ our engagement it at an
end.” The big brother subsequently horsewhipped
the gallant tar at the club, just so there should be
no mistake about its being at an end... .The New-
town Private Skating Rink started on Monday
week, and notwithstanding the turbulent weather
there was a fair attendance last Monday. There
is a large roll of members, including ladies,
and the Rink has the advantage of music—
Another new engagement is rumoured between
the youngest son of a millionaire and a daughter
of a squatter who, until quite lately, ran a shop in
Collins-street, Melbourne The son of a retired
squatter residing at Cook’s River leads to the
altar, next August, the daughter of an Ashlleld
M.L.C The Bachelors’ Assembly at Nithsdale
has been altered from June 8, to Tuesday, June 5,
so as not to clash with the Rowing Club Ball—The
eldest daughter of a Mayor, whose suburban
borough adjoins Newtown, will shortly be es-
corted to the altar by a hardware man
The St. Leonards’ Pxivate Quadrille Assem-
bly opened with a dance on Friday, in the
Masonic Hall, Alfred-street, which is a nice room
with a capital floor. A neat little programme con-
tained 16 dances, and a most enjoyable evening
was spent. Owing to the engaged musicians not
appearing, the promoters do a doubly handsome
thing by giving a second Assembly to-morrow
(Friday). The contretemps didn’t spoil fun a bit,
•for two ladies obligingly melodised for the dancers.
There are to be eight gatherings, at intervals of a
fortnight, and the energetic secretary is Shaw to
make them agreeable.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Randwick Races May 24
Champion A.A. Sports May 34
Governor’s Levee (3 p.m.) May 38
Sydney Private Assembly (Nithsdale) a y *5
Suburban Bicycle Meeting... May 36
Newtown Private Skating Rink... May ~8
North Shore R. C. Bull (Town Hall)........ June 1
E.8.A.A.C .First Annual Ball (Nithsdale). .June 1
Bachelors* Assembly (Nithsdale)........... .June o
Masonic Installation Ball (Parramatta) ..June 6
Britannia C.C. Ball (Parramatta June 8
Glebe Rowing Club Annual Ball Juno 8
Sydney Owl Club Ball (Town Hall) ...... . June 14
Mercantile Rowing Club Ball (Exhibitlou).June 30
Masonic Ball (Town Hall) June -A
Engineering Association Conversazione.. .June «8
Newcastle R.C. Ball. J U J.V ,'q
Balmain R.C. Ball (Town Hall) July 13


Balmy sleep, good digestion, rich blood,
elastic step and cheerfulness in Hop Bitters. Read
and believe.*
According to the Times, the British soldier
of the future is to be clad in shadowy gray gar-
ments and accoutrements, on the model of those of
the now famous 3rd Devon Volunteers.
A whitewashed American, three months
out from London, said the other day: “Wall, I’m
away by this hist boat, and I guess I’ll be a walk-
ing advertisement in the States against N.S.W.”
He was a gentleman who carried all his gold in his
teeth.
A person writes in the hand of a tailor’s
foreman to relieve our woeful ignorance. He
points out that we made the Prince of Wales, in a
Eersonal par. last week, a different man from the
mke of Cornwall, whereas both are identical. Of
course anyone who wasn’t ignorant would have
seen that “Cornwall” was simply a printer’s error
for “Connaught.” We can’t answer our contri-
butor by name, as his only signature is a diminu-
tive inky wart which doubtless very accurately
represents his head.
When Lady Florence Dixje told her sad
story, the Queen sent a message of condolence ;
the Prince of Wales wrote a letter of sympathy,
and, to crown all, John Brown Investigated the
scene of the “ outrage,” and offered to have Lady
Florence’s big dog—the dog which saved her life,
you know —photographed at his own expense, said
John; then with a pang of economy, “if nobody
else’ll pay for it.” This was on the Sawbath day
too, and on the Tuesday the Sydney Echo was
weeping chivalrous tears of printer’s ink aneut
Lady Florry’s sufferings and merits, and the House
of Commons was receiving a question about the
“ outrage ” with roars of, laughter.
The ceremony of unveiling the Mort
statue will, in all probability, be entrusted to Sir
Alfred Stephen. The Hou. W. B. Dailey will
deliver au oration.
THE SINFUL CENTRAL.
With a light hand. With a light hand, and
■with airy thoughts, that arc only so many bubbles,
floating' in the sunshine of the city. Of what avail
to write, with a heavy hand, when life is so short,
and the price of meat is rising 1 ? Let us be gay
while we can, for only poets are immortal ! We
mean, of course, in the spirit. If in the flesh, every
man who sells hash would immediately file his
schedule. So, let us write this, if we can, without
a heavy period, and let us certainly write it with-
out a semi-colon. To commence is difficult. With
us. Do you see, sweet skimmers, that wo, having
a distinct and defined reverence for all Scriptural
subjects, hesitate to drag in even so much as a text
from Numbers to aid us by way of a send-off. The
nice young men who write for the Mail, have
thus the advantage over us. They are not only
devoid of our Scriptural scruples, but are writers
of Infinite resource. They are never stuck
by a difficulty either in verse or prose. They
can carol, with equal melodiousness, upon fe-
male flirts and “ fish-ponds frozen can pen
with equal facility “a little bald biography,” and
a recipe for hair-oil. And, lu a sketch, how they
gleam! There is no chewing the cud of reflec-
r.ion at the start—no hesitation. In an article on
prawns, for instance, where we should bo wracked
by doubt and misgivings, they would shine. We
have it in our mind’s eye, Horatio, how they would
commence. Cnmmececi, peut-Hre The domestic
economy of the prawn is a subject which has com-
mended itself to the attention of sages, almost
from time immemorial. Bearing upon this topic-
one of universal interest—will be found a passage
in the :24th chapter of Jeremiah, the £2 ad
verse And so on, with a gushing glib-
ness which strikes the Congregationalisfs dumb
with admiration. But we cannot do this. Much
as we admire it, to write in this strain we dare not.
There are amongst our constituents many who,
having been lashed to fury through successive
decades, would not hesitate to Imbrue their hands
fu blood. To tell the truth, wo hardly dare put
In any sentimental poetry now. We arc afraid
that when the church bells are ringing out
their peals of peace and Joy, reminding the
sleek tradesman alike of the holy Sawbath
and of the necessity of putting small change
in his pocket, some one would glide in and
mutilate us with a little hatchet. As a matter of
fact, the age is becoming so prosaic that the occu-
pation of our poets, to a great extent, is gone.
But for all that, we do not desert them. In respect
to our bards, we have taken a leaf out of Mr.
Vulfln’s book. What he did witli giants who were
gone at the knees, we essay, in our humble
manner, to do with poets who, while not being weak
In the legs, are weak in the “ feet.” When Mr. V.’s
{ pants grew old and feeble, instead of letting them
oose upon the world and ruining the trade, he used
to keep them at homo to wait upon the dwarfs.
It was the custom of the profession. Hear Mr.
Yulfin’s experience of a showman in a larger way
of business than himself “ Why, 1 remember the
time when old Maunders as had three-and-twenty
wans—I remember the time when old Maunders
had in his cottage at Spa fields, in the winter time
when the season was over, eight male and female
dwarfs setting down to dinner every day, who was
waited on by eight old giants in green coats, red
smalls, blue cotton stockings, and hlgh-iows ; and
there was one dwarf as had grown elderly and
wicious, who, whenever his giant wasn’t quick
enough to please him, used to stick pins in his logs,
not being able to reach up any higher. I know
that’s a fact, for old Maunders told me so himself.”
With us we haVe no dwarfs for our bards to wait
upon, but we do not turn them adrift. No, indeed I
Lodging in an airy coal-hole, and three
meals a day of tho office paste, la ever at their dis-
posal. It shall not be said of us that we did not
Tcnow our duty in the cause of humanity I
s m
Having thus (almost unconsciously) made
a fair start, wo can settle down to snow our
readers, In simple sentences, a perhaps somewhat
singular slide in tho magic-lantern of life. The
picture which we arc about to expose is one that is
born of the streets, and for the student of human
nature the streets of a great city have a peculiar
fascination. For us a stroll through the town affords
endless amusement. It is varied, it is at times
exciting ; and. what is more to the purpose, It is
cheap. In our hearts we love the streets, especially
when they are bright and sunny, with a true
affection. And yet wo have detected ourselves
writing, and what is more printing, poetry of a
maudlin description, containing lines like the
following :—
“ Those cruel streets which have not of e’en charity
a part,
Whose endless vistas of dim light would break
the stoutest heart.”
But this was long ago, when wo wore young and
beautiful, wore clusters of chestnut hair, and
changed our paper collar twice daily. We are so
ashamed of it now, however, that wo can hardly
look a lamp-post in the face without blushing.
• • •
Wo laugh when we hear people—poor hypo-
chondriacs they must be ! —say life is dull. “Dull I”
Bah 1 The “story of our lives from day to day ”
Is more enthralling than a romance by lladcliffe !
There are more mysteries to be revealed by tho
key of the street than by that of Blue Beard’s
secret chamber. We stood, tho other morning, by
the Town Hall, in George-streot, watching the
passing throng. A human kaleidoscope, truly.
Each passer by with a history, from the smug
deacon in sleek attire to the beetle-browed
larrikin who is hanging round the entrance to the
Police Court. We can luxuriate In this picture.
Look, for instance, at that woman with the heavy-
headed baby who is walking along, some few yards
behind a tail countryman, attired in the
usual “ shoddy ” coat and “ aromatic ” moles. He
dives now and again into a pub., as he passes, for a
“ drain,” emerging therefrom with a fixed eye and
an explosive hiccup—much to the astonishment,
apparently, of the heavy-headed baby aforesaid,
who gazes upon him, infantine curiosity filtering
from its lack-lustre orbs. But, look more at-
tentively at these two. He has her arm
comfortably tucked under his own,' and they
are gazing (for we have followed them) into
the window of a shop where they sell imitation
jewellery of a dazzling description. Whenever he
thinks nobody is looking he squeezes her arm, and
whenever she imagines the coast is clear she presses
his hand. They are newly married, of course. “ A
bat could see that with the sun shining.” She is a
nice, plump, rosy girl, and he is a tall follow with
crisply curling hair. And they are both very
happy. We suppose, if he can write poetry (and
more people can write poetry now-a-days than can
chop wood), he lias sent her reams of pretty pieces
in which “ shine ” rhymes to “divine,” and “adore”
to “evermore.” We have been in that way our-
selves, considerably often ; but we have always,
when shown our copies of verses at a docent inter-
val, thirsted for the blood of the miscreant who
wrote them. But let us turn back. And in turning
back what do we see ? We see a dingy edifice with
an impossible dome, and we behold a dusty court-
yard dotted about with constables, and with civi-
lians d’une mise negligle, and we see facing the
dingy edifice aforesaid a one-story building
fay with plants and evergreens about which
it a number of very business-like people
indeed. You observe now that stout gentle-
man in the dark tweed suit, low crowned
that, who has a face the expression of which is of
’Peculiar mildness, whose eyes are of the bluest,
; and whose long beard has an auricomous tinge. He
is portly, and moves slowly about, shedding the
radiance of a No, 3 smile upon mankind generally.
He has the appearance of a country fanner in easy
.circumstances—but ho is not a country farmer.
He is no less a person than Detective-sergeant Mul-
-queeny, the dread of the swell mob, and tho terror
-of the “ forties.” Some years ago before Sergeant
Larkins was made a Sub-inspector, he and Mul-
queeny used to work together. They were called
by the “ talent ” “ Mul and Lar,” and could between
them fill a watch-house of a night without strain-
ing a sinew. That gentleman with the black suit,
the black beard, and the imposing display of watch-
. chain, is Mr. A. M. Castle, the solicitor. His practice
w8 exclusively confined to the “Central,” and
w is fortunate enough to possess a perpe-
U a „ retainer to defend members of the race
Phmfan' ai h is a8 well-known to the
, lis their cookshon is, and there is
K Chinese tr V m -Uawes Point to the Bathurst-
sctcot Column who does not swear by “Cassie.”
,ni,- C o®* ’ u81 y ,1'ft Mr. Castle’s social veil, we
state that when not professionally engaged
“,^F eat ., mau ft 4 aquatics. Of a Sunday he in-
\ aiiaoly gaily sails away in the dewy morn in his
pacing bark, the Florrie—and not unfrequently
sadly swims back when the shades of even are en-
veloping the city.
* *
]lut let us enter the dome-capped building
,, tbe _ sinister Central. Before passing down
that dreadful dark passage, which smells like a
dead house and looks like a vault, oast your eye
(or eyes, if you have two of them) upon those
terms under the verandah. Nearly all the ladies
who are sitting there are wrapped in what they
eonndontiy believe to be an unerring badge of
gentility—the rod shawl. Some are—as they term
it—witnesses for the “ persecution others have
come to “speak up” for various bull-necked
prisoners ‘what never done nothing, but is
a alius bein’ ’ounded down by the perlioo.”
a i ,el ’. e are other females here, too—young slips
or girls who are bhispheuilng together as they
makeup’’ the fine of a promising young man
who has “mashed a copper” on the preceding night.
Curiously enough, many of these girls show signs
ot beauty through their dirt and athwart their
tawdry finery. And nearly all of them are neat
about the feet. But, as if to counterbalance this,
they have, without exception, forgotten to put on
their collars (possibly in the hurry of saying their
prayers), and their hats are bulged as to the crown
ami exhibit feathers of a forlorn aspect. As we
were passing in, one of these ladies remarked to us
I suppose Kate’ll get a drag” (three months).
We didn’t know anything about Kate, and timidly
said so. Then they laughed shrilly. “ S’help me
we thought you was a bloomin' trap,” said
one ; whereupon wo went out and wept bitterly.
• n •
The crime court at the Central is a large
square apartment, which smells of prisoners, and
is lit up by a skylight and Mr. O’Malley Clarke,
this gentleman sits under a dais facing the dock,
and beams upon the court one blaze of beauty.
Above Mr. O’Malley Clarke there is a coat-of-arms,
elaborately painted mid gilded. But no one looks
at it. Every one who enters is immediately ab-
sorbed in the magistrate. He fixes you, so to
speak, with his glittering whiskers. As wo went
in he smiled a soft and sunny smile. We returned
this with much affability, but were rather discom-
posed, a moment later, on discovering that Mr.
Clarke’s smile had boon intended for somebody
else. Standing by the dock, talking in subdued
tones, was a young man for whom we felt sorry.
There was a settled gloom upon his face that went
to our hearts, and his attire was of a sad, not to
say sorrowful, description. We went up to him,
and having exchanged a grave greeting with the
detective, we said —“ Voting man, we perceive by
y.qur face that you would cheerfully commit any
crime. Vour present offence we shall discover
presently, but we expect you to repent. Sin no
more—at least not often. Here is a cake of
tobacco, wrapped in a tract. Head the former
while you smoko the latter in your cell.” But.
instead of accepting our timely gift, he turned
angrily away, while the policeman whispered—
“ That’s not a prisoner, sir ; that’s a reporter.”
• 9 •
The dock of the Central is divided into two
compartments—one for the gentlemen and one for
the ladies. The cleanliness of both is about equal,
since the habitues of eacli (this being a free country)
are in the habit ot chewing tobacco. In the morn-
ing before the court opens all the prisoners tor trial
are jumbled together in their separate docks, and
thus those who are not, at the moment, being tried
arc afforded an opportunity of loading the laughter
at the attorneys’ sallies, and enjoying one anotner’s
conversation. This humane provision for the
prisoners' pleasure wo cannot sufficiently applaud.
It Is entirely in keeping with the fatherly policy of
a kind and benevolent administration. They make
no invidious distinctions between persons. A
murderer and a “drunk” are humanely allowed the
same measure ot enjoyment. We like to see this
very much. Wore it otherwise, we should begin to
think there was a prejudice against murderers.
There is a good attendance of lawyers in court, and,
indeed, a number of notabilities dotted about.
That young gentleman at the table there, who is
growing a beard, and has already got up the scat-
folding for a pair of whiskers, is Mr. W. T. Coonan,
the member for Forbes. And a capital hand Mr.
Coonan is at an ad captandum address—when lie
doesn’t make it too long. His attire is of the
neatest, his smile of the widest, his watch-chain of
the heaviest. He is altogether superlative. And
he has so many rings on his fingers, that you might,
on festive occasions, suppose him to wear bells on
his toes. Near him is a short gentleman with
forensic favoris, and a face that (this is no
exaggeration) is absolutely puckered up by
thought. This is none other than the re-
doubtable “ Bill ” Roberts. This gentleman
has a larger Police Court nraotico than any other
solicitor in the colony—clears £3000 a year regularly,
and regularly sticks to it. At the extreme edge of
the legal bane is an elderly gentleman with a long
beard, plentifully besprinkled with grey hairs. This
is Mr. A. Kobey, attorney of the Supreme Court,
and brother-in-law of the Colonial Treasurer. Mr.
Robey is a lawyer of the quiet school, and rarely
roars louder than a sucking dove. But look at
that tall, line-looking fellow, clean-shaved, of a
fresh complexion, and dressed in clothes of
symmetrical cut. An actor, you will say, or a poet.
Neither. He could no more play a piece than he
could make a clock, and no more write verses than
ho could construe Confucius. That is Sergeant
Keating—a “1).,” who is said to bo high in favour
with the Inspector-General. And Mr. Keating is a
man we like. It is for this reason. Ho has always
a condescending smile for the members of the
press. This geniality on his part encourages us to
further efforts ; and, although we know we are
humble, we feel we are not crushed.
• • •
Sitting in the press compartment, on the
occasion of our visit, were four gentlemen. We
may remark that to be a reporter in a Police Court
in Sydney, is a position to which only a compara-
tive amount of joy is hanging. The representatives
of the press are honoured with accommodation in
the shape of a “two-foot” ledge faced by several
cane-bottomed chairs. Sometimes you get a chair,
and sometimes you don’t. Generally, you don’t.
But if you want one very badly, you ask a police-
man to bring one, And he doesn’t. But if you
are very popular, he might. Being very popular,
we got one. Indeed, so elated did we feel at our
popularity that we were on the point of asking the
sergeant in charge for a gin-case for a footstool ;
but we thought, on consideration, he might con-
sider the application personal. At the press table,
as we jotted down the notes for this sketch, were
four Juniuses. One was a slim, little man, for
whom we have alike a frenzied admiration and a
deep-seated sympathy. Ho is a man above the
common herd ; and, if his eye does not roll with a
fine frenzy—he has a soul, which is the
soul of n dramatist. In a word—and hushed
be the night winds!—he is an author : a
dramatic author. In the dim recesses of the
vault wherein his coke Is stored, he has trunks full
of dramas. Real dramas, witli plots and situations—
with “property” lists, and stage directions—and
yet, they don’t often play them! We offered, when
we saw this distinguished dramatist, to kiss the hem
of his garment. But he didn’t respond. If we
receive any more rebuffs on the part of the daily
press, after this, wo shall begin to think we are
getting ourgelves disliked ! Seated next to us was
a very pleasant-looking young gentleman with
pince-nez (another crusher for Alfred) eye-
glasses: while in his usual place was the
“ Father of the Central.” Not so much did Mr.
Dorrit earn the title of “ Father of the Marshal-
sea,” as this old gentleman lias earned the cogno-
men we have bestowed on him. He is stout and
florid, and his hair and head are of a snowy white.
' Full thirty years ho has spent in the Central, re-
porting for the Herald. This is the dear old party,
who, on being entrusted with a reply to a toast at
the last Herald Wayzgoose, rose and said :
“ Ladies and Gentlemen, Acting under the advice
of my solicitor, I shall reserve my defence until
my trial. He sits In court daily and pens (as it
seems) railed of manuscript, but when the paper
appears his copy seems, like David Coppcrneld’s
slab of mock-turtle,” to have shrunk up into a
very tight fit, indeed. The general impression
amongst the frequenters of flic Central Police
Court now is, that ho is either writing a “ society ”
novel, or else a learned dissertation on the habits
and customs of the Troglodytes.
• •
Mr. O’Malley Clarke is, we should say, a
very good Stipendiary. Not only does he look
attractive (ns wo have already hinted), but he is
expeditious. When we get into trouble through
stealing Uosoby’s horse, or preaching the gospel at
the Chair,” wo should like him to try us. The
suspense with him is so short. You have just time
to count the nails in his golden horseshoe, and re-
peat under your breath the first verso of “ ’Tis the
voice of the sluggard”---when you feel a con-
stablo a knee in your back and over you sail. The
phmt thing to remark about the nou-bailed
’drunks” is the amount of whitewash adhering to
their clothing, and tho grimy condition of their
bands. We don’t know whether there is any clause
in the Police Aot which prevents a prisoner from
washing himself, but it would seem so. Fumiga-
tion being also tabooed by tho authorities, the
inebriates omit an odour which Isa cheerful combi-
nation of tho public-house parlor and tho bone-
yard. None of the “drunks,” either male or
female, appeared downhearted, although the aver-
age of those who paid their tines was not one in
live. They accepted tho position with Spartan
resignation, and they really seemed to adorn it.
Each ease lusts on an average two minutes and a
half. Hero is a sample. Clerk : “Thomas Jones,
you are charged with being drunk in Market-
street—hum—num—num—hum.” How do you
plead? Pleads guilty. Swear the constable.” Con-
stable sworn. Constable : “ Saw prisoner—Market-
street —wanted me to dance with him—num —num
—num.” “ Five shillings, or—num—num—next.”
There is a buzz in court during the whole time tho
inebriates are being disposed of—the solicitors dis-
cussing amongst themselves the political situation
and the price of fiour —a sound which is occasion-
ally varied by a melodious hiccup wafted from the
pen of tho touzled-headed. The first case that wo
viewed with any interest of n serious nature was
that of two desperate burglars who were charged
with stealing a tin of biscuits. These atrocious
desperadoes, who weighed between them rather loss
than tho npprehemlmgconstablo’s dexter blucher,
wore ranged up on the rtloor of the court, and the
mother or one of them (who was genteelly clad In
a crimson shawl and a skirt of tea-leaf tint, was
called to speak on behalf of her offspring). The
la ly had a good deal to say, and addressed herself
culeny to tho reporters whom she evidently con-
sidered to bo tho jury—a ;pleasunt lletiou,‘which
found favour with the members of the press
assembled, since their ledge has on occa-
sion been taken for the dock. The effect of
her evidence was to send the biseult-fllchers to
gaol for fourteen days—a sentence they received
with a composure bordering on hilarity.
• • •
‘‘Next ease.” James Dick: “no lawful
visible means of support.” James is a gentleman
with a bulg’od proboscis, an excoriated temple, and
his arm in a sling. A great array of constables ap-
pear against blip, and their swearing has a
smoothness about it which causes the evidence to
fall musically on the ear. James’ dofenceds that
he is a “ dealer,” and that ho lives with his
parents ; but the gallant constabulary affirm that
his dealings are confined to the great-coats and
umbrellas of strangers, and that he is addicted to
1 gay ” company. The prisoner cross-examines
desperately, but though he exhibits some shrewd-
ness, it is generally felt that a man with a nose
which resembles a distorted mushroom, and who
has a over his left “peeper” is without tho
pale of tinman sympathy. Therefore, when ho is
sentenced to two months, a feeling of relief per-
vades the court, and not even the uncombed
“behind tho rail” express any symptoms (which
they often do) of disagreeing with the magistrate’s
decision. It may be remarked that, prior to the Sti-
pendiary expressing an opinion on his case, James,
with some feeling, announced his intention of re-
forming. Then Mr. Clarke (with a touch of
humour that wo have frequently since woke up In
the middle of the night to laugh at) said : “Ah I
but these Intentions, so far as my experience goes,
seldom ‘come off.’” Then ho pronounced the
dread sentence, with the result recorded.
• • •
“ Kate Ryan! ” Miss Kate stands up behind
her counsel, her attire bearing marks of a mind
which soars above mere adornment. She is habited
in a puce body, plentifully adorned by a Itizarrc
tracery of beer stains. She has u hat which bears
marks of severe neighbourly conflicts, and her
skirt has the appearance of having boon through
the sharp action of a Kiley-streot Tel-ol-Kebir.
She is charged with creating a disturbance, and,
furthermore, with keeping a house of a giddy
character in the neighbourhood of “ Frog Hollow.’’
But, it Dick had an array of constables against
him, it was nothing to tho legiou that confronted
Kate and her lawyer when she stood upon her de-
fence. The lady was of an attractive appearance,
facially, the balance of her “ muke-up ” not having
been obliterated by her sojourn in the cells. Mr.
Roberts had no evidence to call but his client.
• • •
Miss Ryan stepped airily into the witness-
box, and kissing the Testament with a smack, stood
prepared to swear, in a general way, anything.
But as the Player-queen did protest too much, so
Miss K. did swear too much ; and tho result was
that two months were awarded her by the smiling
Stipendiary. Kate left with something between a
curse and a curtsey, and gave way to an unfortu-
nate gentleman who, having already been awarded
fourteen days tor stealing books from tho School
of Arts, was now brought up for abstracting
volumes from the Public Library. As the prisoner
was a member of one of the professions, we do not
wish to be hard on him ; and would, indeed, absolve
him entirely wore we assured that the volumes he
stole were bound in leather.
* * •
So we leave the dreary temple with its dust
and dirt and gloomy shadows. And we are happy
when we are out in the sunshine —once more free
to read the faces as they pass—once more free to
“hang up” the much longed-for Invigorator.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
At Beaufort (Vie.) Michael J. O’Donohoe
quarrelled with his wife, and stabbed himself to
the heart with a table knife—In the ease of P. j.
Dowling', convicted at Melbourne of assaulting
his own daughter, some letters written by prisoner
to his wife were admitted—It is now argued
Improperly. Pointroservod— In a billiard match
at Temple Court Hotel, Sydney, between T. Cleary
and J. Donnelly, for a wager, the latter conceding
50 points in 500, and telling the former what ball to
strike at, Cleary won an exciting game by 18 points
;; -At a Tibooburra progress committee meeting
the following proposal was solemnly submitted by
a member:— ‘I move that a deputation consisting
of members of this progress committee be sent
down to Sydney by telegram, to wait on the
Minister for Mines, requesting that gentleman to
r « c< i.r c * er ' ns ( l° c >8ion concerning the reservation
of Water Hole known as Thompson s Dam.” The
proposition was carried with a little alteration,
but so far the deputation havo not shown up
Thus a Tamworth paper:—'“ Between the Marquis
of Lome and Prince of Wales Hotels in Peel-street
there Is now a perfect bog.” There Is a perfect
bog between the Marquis of Lome and H.R H
Another well-connected” post-office official'has
been true to his traditions. William Wilson, assist-
ant telegraph operator at Forbes, “ sot his pl\e" not
95 ., a k i rl , K8 ’ futon Mark Fitzgerald's cheque for
Li 2 s. «d„ and lost... Patrick M'Ardle, an Adelaide
■« U r.» r ’ wa ? ar , reste<1 on board the Zealandia
with 527 sovs. in his possession. His wife, who was
aS i Mra. Miller,” Involuntarily answered
a detective who culled her by her name Arthur
Cresswcll, 18, son of a solicitor, was fighting on the
Melbourne railway platform. Ho was knocked
iuo W Vw^ I ,i t0 T $ 10 } lne * V& en ! . 1 t , rain came and cut off
his head. Drink The Alfred Hospital (Melb.)
authorities have struck a new idea. When pressed
for room, they put two patients in one bod Two
men, named Maroney mid Watkins, have been
arrested as the murderers of Mr. Watson, who has
been missing since 2nd May, and whose body has just
Albany-read, W.A.
At .Nigger Creek (N.Q.) live dingoes were caught,
worrying a knocked-up bullock. Five were hnng-
lug to the beasts tail.. ..The big potato season is
now on among the country editors.The Southern
Argus man has got one 411). lloz Normanton
wants a hospital, chiefly for patients suffering from
D. 1. and fever Several hundred prisoners in
Dartmoor gaol recently conspired to escape Their
Plan was frustrated though a bone skeleton-key
bi caking in a look — 10(X) tons stone yielded, ac-
SKffiSfto p » r- ln thc Herald, "5000oz.
bullion What Is it—amalgam or gold?
& r - A- fhzant, who found the new river del
bunching into Princess Charlotte Bay, promptly
«jcurod I~,900 acres of sugar-land on its banks
?„ U u lfir £5£,’ a p ?‘ she Pl’ butted an old woman of
(W, and broke her thigh-bone....A half-caste
woman at Coranderrk (Vie.) recently gave birth
to twins, one of which is white mid the other black
A Queensland surveyor, who is exploring the
country between Herberton and the sea for a
practical railway track, takes with him one hun-
ured goats to be eaten by his party on the wav
i,hn t »f« n i y - ye ! lr daughter of a Brisbane publican,
who was examined in court on her father applying
f r A? u » v< 4 liconsc * <Md »ot know the meaning
uri 1 been ,. to school but two days in tier
life, did not know the difference between" a week
and a month; in fact, she know less than an abo-
••K®,ubon Nicholson, who hod weathered
the storms of some sixty years, and felt the night
air dldn t agree with him. went back to his cheer-
less home, in tho heart of ‘‘the poor man's Para-
lobkedthodoor. laid down on his rag-stack
vmAwcfwi,'' - 1 por George Sauer, of the Endea-
vour (N.Q), thought ho was riding to Heaven and
w,th a iP w , el to prevent his being
blinded with glory. Adjudged insane Hiordan,
railway station-master at Gymple, charged with
considerable embezzlements... A West Austra-
lian shepherd had a terrible struggle with a bic
kangaroo bitch which attacked his sheep. After a
l?5&S» ht throw her and cut her head off.. The
N.b.W. man-of-war Wolverene and her amateur
crew are about to take another trip. The onlv
effect of this will be a rise in the price of tin
basins...,Lady Mary Co., Gymple, raising 10-ounce
stone A returned colonist, Mr. William Saun-
ders, strongly cautions Australian minors against
going to the South African fields. When gold Is
struck In a claim the owner of the land is allowed
to sell to the highest bidder, and the Government
then take 6 per cent, of the returns. Many out-of-
Inck Australian miners are unable to return to
Australia from Africa..., A drunken woman made
a suttee, at Carlton, Vie. She deliberately set
Are to her house, and perished In the flames
‘‘It is satisfactory to know," writes Mr. J. Horbiirv
Hunt, “ that the Sydney Post Office caricatures will
not hist more than fifty years, by which time they
will have crumbled away.”... .It has come out that
engine-drivers on the N.8.W. railways sometimes
work as much as 20 hours at a stretch. Indeed
there is a case in which a man has driven 21 hours
right off... Mr. Joseph Elliott, proprietor of the
Southern Auous (8.A.) newspaper, is dead His
brother, Mr. Jas. Elliott, of the Kapunda Herald
died last week. Joseph Elliott was a well-known
musician and composer of the popular song “ By-
gone Days.”... .Erysipelas prevalent at Temora-
everything, in fact, prevalent, but gold... Police-
men resigning in Melbourne because of low wages
This would seem to indicate that the Victorian
police are pretty honest, and live noton the pockets
of “drunks” but on their own pay.
* * *
Ouida’s forthcoming novel is called Sabran
.... There is on exhibition in London a Siamese child
covered with hair, and possessing a rudimentary
tail,.. There was tremendous excitement over the
verdict of £13,000 for breach of promise of mar-
riage, &c., given at Brooklyn to Miss Livingstone
against Henry Fleming Action has been taken to
stay proceedings, on the ground that new evidence
(in the shape of a large bundle of the lady’s letters)
has been found, proving her to have been guilty
of liaison with a coachman in her father's employ
... Some young men in an English town have
been fined for breaking into a house where a
corpse was laid out, and seating the dead gentle-
man In a rocking-chair. When a man Is dead, he
should be allowed to stay dead. To restore to life
some people we know would, in our opinion, de-
serve the same penalty ns murder A scheme Is
afoot to hire the Great Eastern as a floating hos-
pital for the City of London ...P. and O. Co’s
dividend for the half-year, 2i per cent... Cetewayo
badly defeated by his brother, with the loss
of 6000 men....2000 soldiers of the Russian army
committed suicide last year....The Aborigines’
Protection Society, after remarking on the out-
rages committed by the Queensland native police
on the blacks, urge that New Guinea be made a
Crown colony, and that it be not administered by
the colonial authorities ...For the insertion of a
column advertisement for a year, the Chicago
Tribune has received £3200. The N.Y. Herald
gets for Its lowest priced column £8000, and for its
highest £63,000. The N.Y. Tribune gets for its
lowest £5000, and for its highest £17,000.
The Chinese authorities resolutely oppose the
introduction of the electric light. They’re
afraid it will be used to Illuminate the accounts
of Mongolian Insolvents in heathen lands..
The price of clothing an ordinary soldier of the
line is £219s. 3d.; a guardsman’s uniform, however,
costs £4 12s. 6d. ; and a Life Guardsman’s, not
reckoning his cuirass, £8 0s. 8d. That of a staff-
sergeant in the Lite Guards costs not less than £13
12s. lOd. per sergeant. The new uniform of grey
or khakee cloth which it is proposed to adopt for
the British army will cost about £2 12s. (id. per
man — J. Mullet, E. M’Caffery, E. O’Brien, W.
Moroney, and P. Delaney sentenced to ten years’
penal servitude, for complicity in the Phoenix
Park murders. Doyle, another prisoner, got five
years. ..Curley, Phoenix Park murderer, has been
hanged. The crowd outside the gaol made many
sympathetic demonstrations Attendance at
Amsterdam Exhibition di dining..,. De Losseps has,
in consequence of the agitation among the British
shipowners, announced his intention of construct-
Ing a second canal in proximity to the existing one.


Henderson Africanus, the black Victorian
celebrity, was “ up’’lit Melbourne for smashing
things. Ho commenced with the crockery, and
wound up with his wife. This was an innovation
on the customary method. As a rule, those people
commence with the “missis,” and, when they have
finished her off, they turn their attention to the
delf. Africanus, as many know, played an impor-
tant part during the Berry regime. On the em-
barkation of Berry and Pearson to get Imperial
sanction to “wipe the flure” with the Upper House,
ho appeared on the wharf in a swallow-tailed coat
with a high collar and brass buttons (the sort of
article that, at a Conservative meeting. Lord
Beaoonsflold used to present, amid cries of “ Rule
Britannia,” to the labourers of 70 who had reared a
family on seven shillings a week and never appealed
to the parish), to take his passage home as the third
ambassador. But some wicked-looking Berryitos
(from the “ purloin s” of Collingwood, as one leglsla-
tor had it) were on the pier, and so, when Africanus
heard thorn talking about “ chucking ” somebody
into the bay, he struck a bee-line for home. Politics,
however, is not his strong point. Next to his dex-
terity in shifting his wife’s spine with a dish-cover
he shines in debt-collecting. Even his warmest
friends cannot honestly say that he is a white man,
but when his sable face beams under the respecta-
bility of a drab bell-topper with a black band and
red letters three inches high intimating that “ debts
are collected,” he is the terror of recalcitrant
civil servants. We’ve all heard of the squinting
storeman (“ Swivel” he was familiarly called) who,
apparently regarding the roof, observed a cus-
tomer sweep a pair of socks from the counter.
“ Put them socks down,” said he. “ What socks ?”
said the person. “ Those you just stole,” observed
the man. “ Are you looking at me now/’ remarked
the accused, “yes,” said the shopman, whose
eyes appeared fixed on the celling. “ Then I cave,”
replied the thief as he produced the booty and
retired. So with Africanus. Directly he turns the
corner they come to him with debts of ever so
many years’ standing and request him to shift from
the neighbourhood. It it only in extreme cases
that he has to bring his dinner and hang round the
area railings for the day. No debtor has been
known to stand this for two days running without
compromising. But Henderson’s attachment to
Melbourne interferes a good deal with his career.
Some very favourable overtures have been made
him to spend a month in Sydney, and anchor in the
vicinity of Sir ahem! but he only smiles bitterly
and says it would take a blacker man than he to
make that great statesman stump up.
We went to see Mr. Gilboy, the other day,
and his boat. We were rather taken with the boat.
The show was held in a miserable shop near the
News office, and the gifted Maddick rent the air
periodically by informing a torpid public, in a
Jarleyish vein, that now was the time to roll up,
that the price was only “a tanner a pop,” and that
this was a chance that would ne >er occur again.
Maddick, by the way, is a great identity. His ap-
pearance is impressive, but he has relinquished the
patrician for the show world. Last time we saw
him, he was lessee of the Victorieral (as it was then
called), and subsequent to this he used to play the
piano for the dwarf to dance to. Gilboy is a tall
American, whose modest demeanour would touch
the softest heart. He said that he only slept once
in three days all the time coming out. Hearing
this, we immediately asked him for his hand;
which being accorded us, we feelingly shook. We
wanted to ask Mr. Gilboy a lot of questions, but
we didn’t like to intrude. One of our party in-
quired, gently, how often he ate on the voyage;
and Mr. G., darting a sharp look at us, said “ Once
in 48 hours.” We then said, “ We suppose you
lived on pork and beans?” “Yes,” he replied,
“ and clams.” “ How did you fry ’em ?” inquired a
timid stranger. “ With a magnifying glass,” he
answered, with a stolidity which at once impressed
one of his lifelong adherence to the truth. “ How
did you keep yourself warm ?” we inquired, mus-
ingly. “ I had a Boston stove aboard/’ he replied.
“ But how did you heat it ?—with bottled light-
ning?” “No,” said he; “I thought of that, too,
but found it was quoted at too high a price time
I started. I used to use a cat.” “ A cat!” cried a
sailor-looking fellow, incredulously. " Yes. You
see ’’—here he fixed his eagle eye on us—“ when
the weather sobered down a bit, and I felt like a
good square meal—soup, bit o’ fish, porterhouse
steak, and the like, I used to get my cat out of the
locker and put her in the stove. Well, in her
struggles to get out of the stove, ye see she used
to rub her sides agin the oven, and the lectricity
In her used to cook the dinner.” Here there was
an awful pause; when suddenly a boy present
piped out: “And what did you drink, sir?” “Kero-
sene,” be replied; “always kerosene. That saved
me lighting my side lamps. For when I smoked a
cigar, the fumes used to gather round me like a
halo, and you could see the Pacific ten mile off.”
“ What did you do when your provisions were all
gone?” we asked—not very easy in our minds, for
he had fixed us with his glittering eye. “ Chewed
newspapers,” he said, “ and boot-heels, and copper-
nails, and ’’—(this deliberately)—“ if you don’t get
out of the show, I’ll chew you.” So, not caring to
enhance the attractiont of the show by adding to
the sixpen’orth at a possible sacrifice of blood and
hair, we glided quietly out. We think Mr. Gilboy
is well worth seeing; but we think he is better
worth hearing.
Prince Leopold of Hohenzollern, brother
of the Duchess of Connaught, has been appren-
ticed to a blacksmith, as it is the rule in his family
to learn a trade in case of revolution. The way
the Prince learns Is this:—About half-past ten
every morning his valet knocks at his bedroom
door to waken him, and is told to go to the devil
and fetch some hock and soda. This the flunkey
respectfully does—at least, he fetches the drink,
but probably not from the establishment men-
tioned, as he brings it iced. When he has drunk
this draught, and had his clothes put on, the Herr
Instructor in blacksmithing is introduced in a court
suit, and respectfully puts an iron bar in the fire.
When it has become red-hot, the Herr Professor
takes it out, and sinking on one knee, holds it
towards the Prince, remarking, “ Your Royal
Highness, it is always necessary to strike when the
iron is hot; the lesson is now, with your gracious
leave, concluded.” One day, however, the Pro-
fessor having duly thrust the iron into the fire,
was called for a moment out of the room by the
valet, who desired to inform him that he had a
nail in his foot. On Inquiry it turned out that he
had five—one on each toe. The Herr Professor
returned to his duties affronted, and proceeded
with the lesson. This time, however, he departed
from the ordinary formula, and instead of saying,
“Your Royal Highness, it is always necessary,”
&c., he suddenly flung down the iron, and yelled,
“gottfordamhellenblazeshoodonthitz I” There is
but too much reason to believe that, during his
absence, his distinguished pupil had changed the
end of the iron in the fire. And to think that a
sister of such a youth has married one of our
princes, and gets paid £5000 a year by the country
for living with him. It is too much. Tyrants
tr-r-r-emblc J
A S Tt AT
MR SLINGER RECEIVES A CALL FROM A BOOK CANVASSER
