

THE BULLETIN
Vol. I.—No. 9.—New Series
SATURDAY, JULY 14, 1883.
Price—6d.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JULY 14, 1883.
Annexation and Federation.
The New Guinea business is not likely to
have any serious effects on the relations
between the Australian colonies and the
Mother Country. Despite the interchange
of vapouring telegrams between Sir Thomas
M‘llwraith and Mr. Service, and the
general stir and movement caused by the
refusal of the Imperial authorities to sanc-
tion the annexation, the amount of real
interest felt by the colonists is very small.
And as for grievance, we don’t believe there
is a spark ol irritation everywhere. The
affair will neither hasten Australian inde-
pendence nor precipitate federation. The
fact is, there’s nothing in it. Nobody’s
pocket suffers, and the population of Aus-
tralia is yet of so practical a turn that it
keeps the greater part of its pride in the
same receptacle with its money. There isn’t
the material for working up a cry. Nobody
in Australia really cares for New Guinea.
And as for the snub which is faintly talked
about, that is nobody’s concern; and, more-
over, as sense is not obscured by interest or
greed, the fact is very fairly appreciated
that the snub was invited. Looking all round
the New Guinea business, there is very little
to be seen in it. The Island is, no doubt, a
magnificent territory; but Australians are
not stinted in the matter of territory. They
have already more than they can turn to
best advantage. Even Victoria hasn’t civi-
lized her wilderness thoroughly yet, and the
other colonies have scarcely commenced. If
the Imperial Government were to take some
steps which would have the effect of limiting
the colonies in the matter of additional
population or additional capital, there would
be an instinctive sense of injury. That
would truly be a crippling blow. But—addi-
tional territory! To deny that is but to re-
move a smoking platter trom before a man
who is already suffering from over-feeding.
* * ♦
There is no substantial reason why Aus-
tralia should play dog-in-the-manger with
reference to New Guinea. The political ex-
cuse for annexation is chiefly fudge. There
is surely nothing so terrible in the idea of
having neighbours. Even admitting. How-
ever, that danger would be involved in
having the settlements of a foreign power
planted close to our boundaries, the plan of
annexing half of New Guinea is precisely
the worst step which could be taken. We
have pointeu out before :.hat, without New
Guinea, Australiaisself-contained, and shares
with Great Britain the grand advantage of
being moated by the ocean. For Australia to
auuex southern New Guinea would be just
as if Great Britain seized or incorported
Belgium or Hanover. It would be to pass
the moat, and substitute au imaginary line
on the map for the real demarcation and
barrier of the sea. Suppose New Guinea
were annexed, we should not be further
removed from foreign neighbours. We
should jostle the Dutch, and approximate
to the Spaniards in the Phillipines, and to
the French in Tonquin. And, even suppos-
ing that the Dutch claim to the northern
part of the Island were waived or purchased,
Java is quite as close to New Guinea as
New Guinea is to Queensland. Politically
and strategically, the position of Australia
would be no better. On the other hand,
supposing the Germans, the Italians, or the
French stepped in and appropriated the
Island. Either of these nations needs it
more than we do. The Germans are a
colonising people. The Italians find it hard
to live in their own country. The French
were successful colonists—although it is the
fashion to affirm the contrary—until uni-
versal war broke them up. Their colonizing
enterprises were crushed, not by internal
failure, but by the supremacy of the British
Navy. Unless it be contemplated that our
own countrymen shall appropriate the whole
globe, we must submit to have neighbours
somewhere. And it certainly seems ridicul-
ous that, while we are screaming “Keep your
distance!” we should be stepping out to wards
the very people we warn off.
The case of the New Hebrides differs in
some slight degree, Presbyterian and other
Protestant missionaries have been labouring
there for a number of years, and claim to
have invested several hundred thousands of
pounds in native souls in these parts. There
seems to be on their part a sort of disposi-
tiou to regard these islands as forming a kind
of appanage of the Kirk. This is a claim
which would be too preposterous for con-
sideration, were it not known how often the
pretensions of sectaries have plunged the
world into war. It was a dispute about the
Holy Places in Palestine which brought
about the Crimea war. Consequently, there
would be nothing abnormal in the agitation
of the missionaries setting France and Eng-
land at each others’ throats anent the New
Hebrides. The thing is a little farcial, never-
theless. The two great nations, France and
England, have mutually entered into a
solemn undertaking not to seize New
Hebrides. And a clique of reverend busy-
bodies work upon a Presbyterian premier of
of dependency of one of the contracting
Powers to induce him to urge the Mother
Country to break her plighted faith and dis-
honour herself—for the love of God ! Mighty
pretty morality this missionary politique.
* * •
Therois alot of Phariseeism and some flavor-
of cowardliness about all the fuss that has
been made. What harm would it do us to
have Italian, or French, or Spanish, or Ger-
man, or Dutch neighbours ? We English are
the salt of the earth, forsooth, and must not-
have our native worth tarnished by rubbing
shoulders with any other people! This is
fudge unqualified. Nothing would be more
likely to stimulate progress, to enlarge the-
scope of ideas and the variety of methods,
than the interchange of ideas which would
follow the establishment close at hand of
quite a different sort of settler. The United.
. j
States owes its grand intellectual freedom
and progress, in no slight degree, to the
chafe of systems and survival of the soundest
ideas, consequent on the admixture of nation-
alities by universal immigration to her terri-
tory from all parts of the civilized world.
And as for danger, are we Australians so de-
generate, so unworthy our sires of war-proof,
that, with all the advantages of numbers, and
comparatively settled establishment, we are
to shiver in our shoes because a handful of
foreigners, wearing fierce mustaohibs, squat
down over the way, and on our route to our
tea-market ? There is just one solid objec-
tion to foreign nations having a whack in
the Southern Hemisphere, and that is the
risk that they will again imitate our own
style of colonization, aa they have once
already done in New Caledonia. The era of
convict settlements should have passed
away. But we cannot cry with the force of
lung which would otherwise be ours, because
we have up to this very hour been quietly
tolerating on our very continent the identi-
cal thing which we are or pretend to be
horror-stricken that the French should think
of. Western Australia is still a penal settle-
ment, just as much as New Caledonia is.
How, then, can we consistently make it a
casus belli that another nation should do far
away what we have not objected to our own
nation doing close at hand ?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Art Gallery.
The public will heartily endorse the wish inti-
mated by Mr. G. H. Reid to the trustees of the
N.S.W. Art Gallery that in future it shall be open
to the public in the forenoons as well as after-
noons. The plea that the Gallery is a school as
well as an exhibition, and that it is proper that the
collection should, up to one o’clock in the after-
noons, be reserved for students’ uses, is mostly
fudge, and affected fudge at that. We will merci-
fully skip consideration of the question whether
the Art School possesses either students or masters
worthy of consideration. If it were the resort of a
whole array of young geniuses, working towards
a life of artistic effort under the guidance
of a galaxy of great teachers, even then
there should be no need for excluding the
public from all the galleries, each forenoon.
Every great collection of pictures is a school as
well as an exhibition. What is our little hotch-
potch of good, indifferent, and bad, compared with
the collection at the Louvre—the spoils stolen
from every gallery in Europe ? Yet students work
there all day, while the public inspect the pictures.
Class rooms are required, no doubt. But it is ab-
surd to pretend that the class room must be in a
picture gallery. Access to the pictures is the right
of the public, at all reasonable hours, and it is pre
posterous to shut the doors during half the day,
on the pretence that the little handful of dilletantl
canvas-spoilers, who make-believe to be studying
represent a budding art school. The N. 8. Wales
Art School has never turned out an artist worth
damning, even. And should it ever Include among
its students one promising youth of either sex, all
that would be requisite to strangle the chances of
such a nascent genius, would be to require him or
her to remain a pupil of the Art Gallery.
Pious Billy.
Three columns and a half of a personal Item about
a man is what the Herald drenched its readers
with last Saturday. The man’s name is Bill. But
then he is an Emperor, and the Herald’s Berlin
Jenkins calculated that N. S. Wales Jenkinses
would be anxious to hear all about the old boy. So
that now no reader of the Herald can plead
polity to ignorance of anything about Pious
Billy except just what people would most care
to know. All the gilding and drapery and
show-paint is laboriously described, but the
man—not a chink is opened to peep at him
through. Perhaps one little chink though—
a mere inadvertence. “ The Emperor Wil-
liam is very religious; he begins every day
reading his Bible.” Then, in a different part of the
letter, and not at all meant to be read with that
pious beginning: “Most of the Emperor's even-
ings are spent at the Royal Theatre. ... It has
very often happened that the Emperor takes a seat
in a common box” (honoured common box) “and is
then surrounded by the different nymphs and
fairies.” Humph! So we have heard. Starts with
Bible, and ends off with figurantes! Piety in the
morning, and tights at night! Pious William;
naughty William. And His Majesty is on much
better terms with- his Augusta than he was ten
years ago. Do tell! What was up ten years
ago ? He will now actually consent to eat
meals prepared by the same cook. Admirable
spouse! Noble nature! This Pious Billy business
is too thin. When a man is 83, and preserves his
fondness for having “ nymphs and fairies ” round
his shrivelled old knees, there’s not much more
needed to let daylightin. Twenty columns of twad-
dle about his coats, or the seat of his chair, won’t
help the deification business along. Pious Billy
is none the less a worn out old who hated his
wife like poison half his life, and never considered
human suffering worth noticing, when his own
road to tinsel splendours lay over crushed car-
casses. A man who is pious because he imagines
that God Almighty is aristocratic, and that ho, as
a sovereign belongs, in a sense, to the same family.
THE HON. THOMAS WALKER, M.L.C., OF CONCORD, N.S.W.


The Rates of Subscription io The Bulletin,
are—For one year, 345.: half year, VJs.; quarter, 6s.
The Advertising Mates are sr. per Inch ;
special positions In the paper 7s. 6d. per
Inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, ns foliows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 17 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For i*i consecutive insertions,
15 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 35 per
cent. No allowance can bo made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion.
Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above Is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
ly PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6s. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Settle Deprbtnent,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET,
where you can obtain for
A GLASS OP WHISKY. BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment In the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome ov all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
4s. fid, per bottle.
CLYNELISH WHISKY,
fis. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. fid. per bottle.
port Macquarie red wine,
Is. fid. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDT,
fis. fid. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS,
Market Street, Sydney.
The Fight for the Standard.
The Salvation Army differs from other corps In
requiring l an escort of females to protect It from
the enemy It goes forth to encounter. Last Sun-
day, a detachment was assailed by a body of
roughs, and the colours were Jeopardized. The
heroism of a Salvation Joan or Anc, who rushed
forward and snato hod the flag from the hands of the
exulting foe, saved the honour of the Army, and
probably averted a row. This is all very well. So
long as the Army takes the precaution of marching
behind the fringe of petticoats, and only utters its
War Cry In print, the soldiers may keep
their crowns unerackod, and the community may
be spared the annoyance and expense attendant on
collisions between saved rowdies and rowdies un-
regenerate. But, judging by the experience of
other places, this is too much to expect. Had a
man instead of a woman made that dash for the
Standard last Sunday, the probability is that a free-
tight would have ensued. And there can be no
guarantee or assurance that among the Salvation
soldiers a man may not happen sooner or latter to
be enrolled. It is not to bo calculated on that the
inversion of sexes will be perpetual, and that
in the Army the males will continue to do the
hysterics, and the females the fighting. As it
was, the public owes no thanks to the heroic wench
who wrenched the captured colours from the
exulting foe last Sunday. According to the pub-
lished accounts this holy virago “dared the roughs
to interfere with her.” Whatever credit is
uscribable to anyone for the preservation of peace
under such provocation is distinctly due to the
roughs. A woman who challenges a man to
phpsical combat is the worst sort of coward. She
reckons on immunity on account of her sex, and
yet casts affronts and contumely upon adversaries
whose hands she believes to be tied. Challenges
of the sort flung out by the Salvation lass
are in every sense contemptible. They are
cowardly on the face of them, and yet
they are distinct incitements to a breach
of the peace. Carried to a somewhat greater point
of absurdity, they might take the form of incita-
tions to wrestle in the Gneco-Judean style, the
winner to take the stakes—salvation. The roughs
—we mean the unenrolled roughs—have been
tolerably forbearing, so far; and seem, in this in-
stance, to have evinced considerably more self-
respect and self-control than the sho-protector of
the Army. But there are strategists among them.
And although Bill Sykes may, on occasion, be
too gallant to accept a woman’s challenge to a
rough-and-tumble, it is quite on the card that,
when next he takes the field, he will bring to the
front a corps of Nancys, who will indulge any
combattant of their own sex with as much pum-
melling and hair-scratching as may be requisite to
enable the most ambitious soldleress to set up a
claim to martyrdom and a new “ bang.”
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“ Traveller” (Brisbane): Certainly; when-
ever you like “Fancy”: Thanks “Nemo”:
Feminize spite. YoVre probably jealous
Thanks “He’s gone to join the Force.”:
Interest ng only to Carcoar “T. Kavanagh”:
We’ll endeavour shortly to carry out your sugges-
tion, for which m any thanks “Araluen”: Your
story is of the Benjamin Trovato order ,
“ Curiosity ”: Why don’t you send your name
“S.E.”: The new Secretary of the Yorick Club is
Mr. Stanley... .“E.5.8.”: We don’t believe much
in religious share speculators. You can’t well
rob ana pray at the same time. But you can rob
and prey. ..“Verney Foster”: We should think
not, considering that New Guinea is but say three
days’ easy sad from Cooktown “J.M.”: Will
deal with nex week. Meanwhile, we may say that
the opening of your article would almost show t
to be a paraphrase of a leader which appeared in
these columns a few w eks ag0...." H.W. Austin”:
You can buy It at any bookseller’s for a shilling.
Henry George’s reply to ;he numerous critics of
his masterly book, “ Progress and Poverty," was to
appear in June “ E.S. :We know no more than
has been stated in the papers. It is pretty clear
that Clarke was killed by the Mitchell blacks—the
latest accounts • ay that he war, killed while asleep
and his black boy while away Ashing “ Fancy”:
Received another also. Thank you “ Weetah”:
send more “ W.F.A.”: You are right; the style,
sxibjeet, and length all render it unsuitable—
“ a!b.C.” : Too many such cases for us to notice...
“Nepos”: Well meant, but scarcely suits
“C.J.D.”: Send it to “ Clara.”—"G.A.S.”: Send
us wit, pith and fun. We don’t want anything
about the welcome downpour, or the promotion of
the constable who has endeared himself to all.
Doesn’t anyone ever break any of the command-
ments up your way ? “ Wagga ”: Next week.
[Many other communications stand over for
reply.]
We have received several short talcs which
will be road and considered in due course.
We do not undertake to return rejected
communications. Writers should keep copies.
We are desirous of procuring short stories
of colonial interest, not exceeding two Bulletin
columns. We are also desirous oI receiving commu-
nications from ladies onsubjectsof social interest.
For such matters we are prepared to pay liberally.
Suggestions for sketches are always welcome.
Queensland Parliamentry dyspepsia. Thus
the Maryborough Chroniclk “ The junior
member for Wide Bay having sufficiently sobered
under the influence of six hours’ soltiary court no-
men tin the lock-up on Monday night, deposited
bail, and was, according to law made and provided
in such cases, liberated at a late hour. During
yesterday, having forfeited his bail, he continued
what wo presume are his electioneering tactics—
viz., promenading the town in an undisguised state
of beer, and ever and anon hitting a tree and in-
dependent elector over the head with his stick.
Occasionally freedom and independence asserted
itself, and the candidate for the suffrages of Wide
Bay turned a somersault into the gutter, only to
rise, Phoenix-like, and resume business with the
nexr. valued constituent who came along. Al-
together this portion of the constituency had a
lively time of it; so had the worthy representative,
for during the day he received hidings sufficient to
expiate the sins of a whyje Parliament and at least
six Liberal Ministries.”
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
E. Standish, clerk, 54, dropped dead in an
Adelaide blacksmith’s shop. Apoplexy Murray
River to be canalised into permanent navlgable-
ness at cost of four millions—at least, such Is the
policy of Pollitzer, C.E., etc—Telegraphing from
ships at sea likely to come on soon. Boro tor ab-
sconders— Vestas and safety matches to be super-
seded by electric lighters Inventor of Westing-
house brake silver-medalled at Berlin Exhibition
of Hygiene. Woods, his rival, made exhibition all
of himself, last week, at Melbourne manufacturers’
Hyginx.. Fairbairn’s tram man-catcher is a flexible
india-rubber band which gives upon contact with
any object, and in the natural recoil tends to lift
and deposit it in the hammock behind Analyst
Watt proclaims periodically that the Sydney Gas
Go.’s gas possesses the illuminating power of so
many candles. Since some tons of candles we’ve
lately consumed possessed next to no illuminating
power whatever, wo think the candle standard
might conveniently be exchanged for some other.
John Plummer is not so much an advocate of
High as of I Art—They'were off to open the
Nyngan railway, and the distinguished politician,
calling the guard aside, observed “Jim, wake up
and gimme a good stiff n p to-night when I’m
thirsty.” “All ri’, sir,” replied the considerate
guard, “ but how can I tell when you’re thirsty ? ”
“That’ll be 0.K.,” said the Sunday-closing legis-
lator. “You can’t go wrong. I’m always thirsty
whem I’m woke up. —Melbourne and Hobson’s
Bay Railway Co., wound up on Tuesday “ Gar-
ranny,” the other day, writing of a new clothing
industry, sain that a smart girl could fasten the
necessary number of buttons on 200 pairs of
trousers a day —The men of Copeland are en-
deavouring to get the Government to grant a block
of land to the Barrington blacks. If they don’t
mind they’ll get snubbed by the Aboriginals’ Pro-
tection Board Station-owners up Temora way
are training bloodhounds to kill mongrels. Wo
should like to give said bloodhounds, when fit, a
week’s sport in Sydney Two Sydney suburban
aldermen are in a choice state of opposition: “If
you weren’t always drunk you’d comprehend my
meaning,” says one. Says t’other: “Well, any-
way, 1 was never accused of perjury.” And so
they joke away, the pretty r ears A Gulgong
policeman has succeeded to a fortune of £80U).
And the other day, in Melbourne, a constable died
worth £7Boo—all saved out of Os. (id. per day The
Melbourne glass-makers have a real grievance—a
German is employed in their works At a county
court one of the witnesses referred to the man in
the dock for highway robbery as “this gentle-
man." The prisoner grinned his thanks—Ac-
cording to the Herald, John Henry Cumberland,
aged 08, met with a Bondi bull t'other day, who
tossed him “ seven or eight feet in the air, and
gored him in the region of the left hip.” —Last
week, in the Wallsend pit, David Jones, miner, sat
down to lunch alongside of his mate—and a parcel
of powder wrapped up in paper. Jones struck a
match to light his pipe—and the subsequent pro-
ceedings interested him no more—Cooktown is at
present feting a powerful New Guinea chief and
some of his followers. The niggers, likely enough,
would not enjoy the hospitality half so much if
they knew how anxious their hosts were to give
a few thousand of them permanent billets and
lashings of “stirrup oil” on the sugar plantations.
The Armidale Co-operative Butchery Co. last
week killed two pigs, the aggregate weight of
which was 1011 lb At Kojunup, W.A., the charred
remains of a farmer (supposed murderers are in
the hands of the police) have been discovered—
The list of the great unpaid in N.S. W. about to be
augmented. It wants reducing —Movement on
foot to induce Government to construct a railway
from the Illawarra line at St. Peters, to proceed
direct to Liverpool, a distance of about 12 miles,
passing through Marrickville, Canterbury, Kings-
grove, Moortlelds, Belmore, and Bankstown In
the programme of the Grand Musical Festival, an-
nounced for the 12th, by the N.S.W. “L.0.L.”, we
note that Brother Hicks, and R. L. Murray, M.P..
and conductor Massey and accompanist E. Massey
are each dubbed “ Esquire,” while J. T. Brown and
A. Edward and A. Williamson, and A. H. Gee, are
simply called “Mr.” Why is this thus?—An
Auckland commission agent, named W. O. Stevens,
has been committed on a charge of having offered
a bribe of £2OO to Mr. Lewis, Under-Secretary of
Native Affairs, with the object of influencing
his disposition of certain Native Lands
Thus the Bourke Watchman:—“A great point
was made of the fact that all the boys could say
their prayers and sing hymns. We are sufficiently
favourable to cleanliness before godliness (so-
called), that we would sooner see a clean, healthy
child, who did not know B from a bull’s foot, or
know wnat the word prayer meant, than a dozen
dirty, itchy, lousy youngsters, chock full of texts,
hymns, and catechisms.”... If all is true that
reaches our ears, the inspectors of weights and
measures in the different parts of the colony are
sadly remiss in their duties The Rockhampton
municipal gun and town clock arc not at one. In-
deed, when the former is at one, the latter is at
sixes and sevens, and the Capricorinans are conse-
quently mad The value of the total export
of meat (frozen, preserved, or salted) from
Melbourne, during ’Bl and ’B2, was £180,857. ...
One of the proprietors of the Temora Star has
joined the Salvation Army.. .A civil servant named
Linay, lately dead, bequeathed £34,499 to Mel-
bourne charities—The owners of the Austral
Downs station, Herbert River (N.Q.), expect in a
few years to depasture half a million sheep The
produce of the Mary River (N.Q.) oyster-beds is
being shipped to Sydney and Melbourne—The
Queensland Agent-General denies that slavery is
earned on by sugar planters —The Mayor of Mel-
bourne has stopped the sale of coffee and r, hot
potato after midnight on Saturday nights. These
magnates, it appears, have a legal right to say
when the public are to put hot potatoe, down
their throats. It suggests, however, what the
public would like to do with certain Mayors
A Cooktown publican got mad lately, and kicked
his wife. She went for police protection. This
made him madder, and he rushed around the hotel
with a tin of kerosene and matches to set it on Are
just for satisfaction. He got two months The
Burram (Q.) coal-mines are going ahead. At a
recent meeting, Mr. Harris said that one mine was
prepared within ninety days to put out 3000 tons of
coal per week, which were nearly all sold. He hmj
got orders for 5000 tons himself. Howard Smith
and Sons would guarantee to take 300 tons per
week £500,000 worth of gold from Sandhurst
during the half-year; profit, £OO,OOO ...Thocaptain
of the Almora discovered a new volcano in Straits
of Sunda during his inward voyage.. . At Tooram
(Vie.) 80 tons of mangolds grown to the acre.
Mr. Eastlako, a Queensland Government agent on
board South Sea labour vessels, has been dismissed
The correspondence in re his case is to be produced
in its entirety, and is expected to prove interesting
more especially with reference to the miserable
accommodation afforded generally to Government
agents on board labour vessels, and to the neglect
of the Department in not fully Investigating com-
plaints of alleged outrages on unoffending islanders
and their often illegal recruitment. Mr. Eastlake
by the way, is a son of the late Deputy Judgel
Advocate-General of the Fleet—An ocean race
Newcastle to ’Frisco, started on Saturday, between
Knight of the Garter (Gordon), 3181 tons ; Francis
Thorpe (Buck), 1681 tons; Eivion (Evan .Tones), lets
tons; and the Windermere (Green), 1772 tons, all
coal laden Somnambulistic patient in Mel-
bourne Lying-in Hospital found walking in the
street on Saturday. Taken back uninjured...
Crawford, manager of Dr. Hope's station, w.
Australia, recently had a brush with blacks, whom
he came upon as they were killing sheep. With
the help of his revolver and his black boy he came
off best... Steamer Blackboy lost on Saturday
while recovering cargo from the stranded “George
Koper” on Point Lonsdale Beef. Both vessels
total wrecks. The Koper was sold for £3BOO to a
Melbourne syndicate. Wreckers did much thieving.
Edinburgh University of St. Louis, in the most
accommodating spirit, furnishes the diploma of
Mus. Doc. Edin. Univ.. thus enabling the purchase-
to figure as a graduate of Edinburgh University.
The editor of the Orange Advocate puts it thus:
“ Davies v. Harris slander action. Damages laid at
£30,000. Verdict for the plaintiff for the whole
amount, less £19.999 19s. ll%d. The judge made the
farthiny carry all costs—The Townsville P.M. has
given a woman four months’ gaol for obscene
language. Forbes’ article, isn’t it? The North
Australian tin-mine, Horberton, has already on
hand £23,000 worth of ore... Reported from the
Palmer that the London Geographical Society have
asked Warden Hodgkinson, the veteran explorer,
to lead an expedition in New Guinea.
* * ♦
The Russian Guard is buttonless: hooks
and eyes the only fasteners—The deepest sound-
ing in the Atlantic yet x-ecorded made by the U.S.
Geodetic Survey steamer Blake. Deepest sounding
before reported was 3863 fathoms, made by H.M.S.
Challenger. Depth reached by the Blake, 1561
fathoms. Place of sounding, 71 miles north of San
Juan, Porto Rico ...New steamer, Daphne, was
being launched in the Clyde last week; heeled over
and turned topside t’other way. Some 100 persons
drowned The cholera has reached Cairo Riots
among the Staffordshire ironworkers Two aero-
nauts recently ballooned safely to Belgium from
Kent 150 persons now said to have been drowned
by the capsizing of the Daphne on the Clyde.
Being questioned recently as to his future
intentions, Captain A. H. Bogardus is reported as
saying; “There is no doubt that age is beginning
to tell, and it is m me than likely that I will retire
on June 20, the date to which my proposition re-
garding the emblems in my possession remains
open. The trophy representing the world’s cham-
pionship and the American championship emblem
nave become my personal property by right of con-
quest. lam still willing to defend either. Months
ago the crack shots of America and Europe were
notified that I would waive all rights of possession,
and that if anyone would agree to shoot me under
the championship conditions, and should win, 1
would not only surrender the stakes, but the em-
blems also. This proposition still holds good.
There is one point which should bo placed squarely
before the public. I will wager SIOOO to S3OO that
no man can equal my feat of breaking 3500 glass
balls in 7h. 19min. 3sec.; SIOOO to S3OO that ray score
of 100 straight kills at Chicago. July 31, 1869, can-
uoi be equalled; and SIOOO to S3OO that no one can
equal my score in the match at New York, July 3,
1880—99 dead birds in 100—under similar conditions.”
HEN STORY.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Let rao tell you the story of Alice,
For a while ’twill amuse you at least:
She was queen of a bar like a palace
In a pub.—say in Coll ins-street East;
There I and De Jones and St. Leger,
And lots of the boys in our set,
Would call for absinthe and pledge her—
Gad! I laugh when I think of it yet.
She had come down to town from Kilmore, or
Some beastly old countryfled hole,
And I knew she'd a bush-born adorer,
Who loved her far more than his soul—
A fellow who wore paper collars,
And ploughed—fancy that—fairly ploughed.
But yet could, perhaps, show more dollars
Than any of our high-toned crowd.
She was good enough, nothing uncommon,
A passable face for a bar:
A fresh-cheeked, well-featured young woman,
But quite too in earnest by far;
Just then I was known to a dozen
Of girls you may readily guess,
Being known to be “ Somebody’s Cousin,”
And having my style and address—
Being fixed in a Government billot,
With certain promotion in store:
I had nothing to do but just will it,
To pot their dear hearts by the score;
But somehow ’twas one of my fancies
To string Alice on, and I think
I can manage the language of glances.
From the love-gaze right down to the wink.
Well, I saw that she’d been brought up steady,
And though she was forced to reply
To the slang of St. Leger and Freddy,
Her laugh had a touch of the sigh;
So I put on a serious demeanour,
And standing aloof from the rest,
Was for ever appearing to screen her
From coarse word and scurrilous jest.
And the boys told me often at poker.
They knew I was devilishly struck—
And Jack—quite a soft sort of joker—
Said the girls envied Alice her luck;
And Digby Fitz-Clarence, the teller,
Remarked—the while sucking his cane—
’Twould be too beastly rough on her feller,
When he came down to see her again.
But the girl was so good—or so stupi I
She made no response to my move,
Though I spoke of the arrows of Cupid,
The pangs and the raptures of love;
And I’d half given it up, when the Major
One night when I met him at pool, '
Before all the room made a wager,
That Alice would make me a fool.
That, of course, stirred me up like a nettle,
And made me resolve to pursue
My suit with unfaltering mettle.
And try what mock Hymen would do;
So I fixed it with Jackson, my crony,
To do the sham parson for me;
And so euchre the Major, whoso pony
We'd afterwards melt in a spree.
This trick is exceedingly risky;
But to fellows whose spirits are light.
Whose veins hold half blood and half whisky,
Such risks only seem to Invite;
And the danger was nought to compare to
The way that our office would laugh
Did we “cave”—and the Major—to bear, too,
His witty, unmerciful “ chaff I ”
So I seized the first moment to urge on
My charmer my virtuous hope,
And I tipped her half love and half Spurgeon,
And swore I was chaste as the Pope;
I told her of fair expectations,
Of heights I was sure to attain,
Of the might of my wealthy relations.
And the manner in which she should reign
As an empress o’er parents indulgent.
Whose wishes were echoes of mine,
And addressed her in language refulgent,
From eight until quarter past nine;
In accents of fervour I dwelt on
A life that was shining and sweet,
And suddenly slid down and knelton
The bar-parlour mat at her feet.
Where coming the tragic quite clean, I
Swore aloud that unless she would plight
Me her love, like a new Mantalini
I’d be a “ dem’d body ” next night;
So well such persuasion I wielded,
That after some modest delay
She forgot the selector and yielded.
And promised to wed me next day.
I told her ’twould be most delicious
To take all my friends by surprise;
And, dazzled and all unsuspicious,
She said that as I would advise
She would do on the morrow, and ever,
And seemed to believe in me so
That I thought that I really had never
Seen such a most comical go.
Next evening, though Jackson was nervous.
And twice I laughed almost aloud.
He managed to pull through the service,
And see the ring safely bestowed;
But the fun became almost distressing,
When, after the slip-knot was tied,
The minister gave us his blessing.
And gravely saluted the bride.
Then (I had a month's leave of my duties),
We went to a town down the coast.
Where, after a week, other beauties
My heart’s whole attention engrossed:
She grew doubtful, as I showed no hurry
To bear her away to my home;
And what between her wretched worry
And a girl with a tortoiseshell comb
I told her that, however pleasant
The end was that she had in view.
It didn’t quite suit me at present,
And that the best thing she could do
Was to get back to Kilmore, and marry
The joskin that followed the plough;
Then she fainted, and by the Lord Harry!
There followed a deuce of a row.
I tried no more finesse upon her,
But showed, while her face blanched and set,
How that I, as a person of honour,
Was bound to do what I had bet;
And I begged her to think it a bubble
Of air on the top of life’s cup,
And I mentioned, to save her the trouble,
I had torn the certificate up.
Then, to show I’d no meanness or malice,
I chucked her a new one-pound note,
And observing: “ Good-bye, little Alice,”
Went out t< the hall for ray coat;
When I heard her fall down on the floor of
The room, and was going to see
What was up, when I thought “ Oh, no more of
Her fainting-fit business for me.”
So I got back to town by the steamer,
And told the boys just how it stood,
And they swore that the yarn was a screamer,
That they never had heard one as good;
And the Major shelled out like a Briton,
And said I was worthy to win,
And that he judged Old Nick but a kitten
Beside me, in the matter of sin.
And a week passed away and no token
Came to me from the pretty young bride,
When the silence was suddenly broken,
And I learned (through the press) that she'd
died
It seemed she had fallen on the fender,
Which had fractured her skull, and she lay
On the hearth with no hand to attend her,
Until nearly the close of the day.
And when she was told she was dying,
And pressed hard to yield up my name,
She told them a lie, anil so lying
Passed off, every inch of her game;
For awhile I was rather suspected
Of being mixed up in the lark,
But being so highly connected,
1 managed to ha v e it kept dark.
Yet it caused me a big lot of bother
Before things went smoothly again,
I was bored by her father and brother
(The former seemed slightly insane.
For he talked of revenge) and her lover
Came down in his moleskins and boots,
And I had to keep well under cover,
To dodge all the country galoots.
That’s her story, dear boys. Not a bad one
You'll say (Colonel, pass me the wint!)
Though the girl’s end was somewhat a sad one,
Of course that was no fault of mine.
But such times are all over. Next Friday
I’ll marry in earnest, you know,
And lot what will come I’ve had mu day,
And you see that I wasn’t so slow.


Oriental Gold!
THIS Magnificent Metal—the latest discovery of
science—puts in the shade every substitute for
sterling: gold ever offered to the public. The best
limitations heretofore produced are entirely super-
seded and surpassed by the
Brilliant Lnstre and Enduring Beauty
,of the new alloy. So admirable is its appearance
: and quality, that the discoverers have not stooped
to apply it to common uses. No tawdry articles of
inferior design are manufactured of ORIENTAL
GOLD. It is worked up into
JEWELLERY OF THE BEST CLASS AND MOST
TASTEFUL DESIGNS ONLY,
And as perfectly indistinguishable from the most
cost.y Jewellery.
The highest grades of Sterling Gold Jewellery
may be placed side by side with articles of Oriental
Gold, and the most experienced experts fail to dis-
tinguish one from the other.
The Oriental Gold Co.
Have Opened a
SYDNEY BRANCH IN GEORGE STREET,
Exactly opposite the Central Entrance to the Mar-
kets, where they have presented to public view
An Assortment of Unequalled Beauty
A.t Prices which represent only a fraction of the
cost of Sterling Gold Jewellery of Identical
Workmanship,
RESIDENTS of SYDNEY and VISITORS from
the COUNTRY are respectfully invited to inspect
our Goods. We count it no trouble to show them>
and no injury if no purchase is made.
We are glad to have visitors, because we know
that our goods please everyone, and that those who
do not purchase will speak of our Jewellery to
their acquaintance in a way that will do us service*
We want to do business with people throughout
Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
PARCELS BY POST ON APPROVAL.
To save customers the trouble of compiling a
list, we make up useful and attractive lists as
follows
No, 1,
Gentleman’s Watch, horizontal movement,
Oriental Gold case, open face with crys-
tal glass, with handsome Oriental Gold
Albert, for .. "£2OO
ONLY!
w.
wM
w
This cut is the exact size
and appearance of
THE REVOLVER for ONEPOUND!
A beautifully-finished article, nickel-plated through-
out, vulcanite stock. 32 calibre ; 5 shot.
Sent to any part of Australia or New Zealand for £l.
Oriental Gold Company, 474 George-st., Sydney.
No. 2.
Same ns above, except that the watch has
hunting case, for 3 0 0
Please observe. We do not pretend that
these are fifty-guinea watches ; but we do affirm
that they are good, honest watches, excellent time-
keepers, articles which do us credit and give satis-
faction to our customers. In appearance they are
indistinguishable from expensive gold watches.
No. 3.
Gentleman’s Silver English Hunting Lever
Watch, capped and jewelled, with Ori-
ental Gold Chain £4 4 0
Oriental Gold Compass Charm .. .. 013 6
Tasteful Breast-pin, Oriental Gold .. ..076
Brilliant Alaska Diamond, Oriental Gold
Ring 076
Oriental Gold Shirt Studs, set of four .. 0 8 6
£6 0 0
The watch in the above parcel is a first-class
article, such as is usually sold at from six to seven
guineas. We deal direct with the manufacturers,
*and on a large scale, and thus we get special terms,
and are enabled to share the advantage with our
customers. The Jewellery, we need scarcely say,
can’t be told from sterling gold articles. The work-
manship is identical with the best. Thus, by buy-
ing this watch from us, purchasers, as a matter ot
fact, secure the other articles as a free gift.
No. 4.
A genuine Waltham Watch, nickel case,
open face, crystal glass, as supplied to
the N.S. Wales Railway Department,
with splendid Oriental Gold Albert ..£3 0 0
No. 5.
Same as No. 4, except that the Watch has
sterling: silver hunting case, with chain
as before 3 10 0
Note.—We buy these watches by the thousand*;
otherwise we could not sell them at the price.
Sportsmen, Bicyclists, Pedestrians, and
Oarsmen—Observe I
No. 6,
A Racing Chronograph nickel-cased watch,
double dials, splendid timekeepers,
with patent lly-back, marking quarter
seconds, with Oriental Gold Albert .. £4 0 0
No. 7.
Same as above, except that this case is
silver instead of nickel, with Oriental
Gold Chain 550
Ladies I Please Note.
No. 8.
_iady’s Oriental Gold Watch, handsomely
chased case, full jewelled, highly-
finished works, with handsome treble
chain, two glides and two tassels, of
Oriental Gold, only 3 15 0
The above Is a gift which will astonish any re-
cipient. Each article is thoroughly good. The
action of the watch Is Identical with what is put
into sterling gold cases, of same design, and sold
for £8 and £lO, and there is no difference in the
appearance.
No. 9.
Lady’s Oriental Gold Brooch and Earrings £0 15 0
Lady's exquisite Necklet and Locket, Ori-
ental Gold 1 15 0
Lady’s gem set Gold Ring (real stones) .. 010 0
£JJ 0 0
The above is a gift packet, specially selected
from our stock at specially low rates for the assort-
ment.
The foregoing are but a few assortments speci-
fied to save customers the trouble of making a list.
It will be sufficient when ordering to give the
number of the lot, and enclose P. 0.0. for the
amount Payable to The Oriental Gold Co.
Spboally Observe.—lf the articles do not an-
swer expectation on receipt, re-pack them at once
and send them back. If this is done within two
days, or, where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not Injured, wo
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will return the
money for the articles not kept.
Every watch sold by us will be rated and accom-
panied by a written warranty for two years.
We have a very large stock of Earrings, Brooches,
ladies and gent's Alberts, Rings set with real stones,
crystals, and Alaska diamonds, emeralds, rubies,
and Italian pearls ; Lockets, Necklets, Collarettes,
Fancy Charms, Breast-pins, Studs, Solitaire Neck
Studs (some very splendid Alaska brilliants). The
prices vary.
Send us from £1 to £lO, with a list of what you
want, and we will make a choice for you to the
best of our judgment and forward same. If not
approved, and immediately returned, we will
refund as above, or make any desired substitution*
Note the Address: 474 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Markets.
THE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO.
are the largest consumers off American
Leaf in the colonies, hence the FIRST
? position for quality is assigned to their Twist
and Flat Tobaccos —Yankee Doodle, Conqueror, Sir Roger (thick
twist), R. C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture, and others.
CIGARETTES. —Their CONQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold an equal position.
t®”D. & S., Importers of Pipes of every kind, Cigars, and all Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods and Sundries,
i
11. P. GREGORY,
H. SHAW SMITH.
S. W. GREGORY.
H. R GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers & Machinery erchants
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR
Fay & Co.’s Woodworking Machinery
Tanite Co.’s Emery Wheels and Machines
Blake’s Brass-lined Special Steam Pumps
Korting’s Injectors
Eclipse Windmills
Sturtevant’s Fans.
A LARGE STOCK OF THE ABOVE ALWAYS IN OUR STORES,
as well as all
SAW MILL, PLANING MILL, AND MINING REQUISITES,
17 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VIRTUTIS GLORIA MERGES.
COALCLIFF COAL.
This NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY supplies the CHEAPEST, CLEANEST, and
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony,
£1 per Ton net, delivered within city bounds.
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and bars kept well free from ash, makes a stronger,
more lasting, and cleaner Are that any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky Hare and soot of
Newcastle ooal, nor does it splinter and fly off like the Western, but it affords that domestic desideratum
of some kinds of English coal of heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a
charcoal or breeze fire, while it imparts to the steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwhole-
some fumes given off by a breeze or gas Are.
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
Office: A. B. BLACK, 247 George Street.
Ur DEPOT : WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
Hydropathic Eathing Establishment
Corner of College & Oxford Sts., Hyde Park.
A. A. DEBNEY & CO.,
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
PORTMANTEAUX. BAGS,
TRUNKS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
A. A. DEBNEY & CO.,
Have just opened a large Shipment of Superior
Efr" HOSIERY, MERCERY, SCARFS, TIES,
COLLARS, and EVERY REQUISITE
FOR GENTLEMEN’S TOILETS.
SHIRTS
Cut after the Latest London Styles, by an expe-
rienced London Cutter,
N.B.—Country Orders receive Special Attention.
A. A. DEBNEY & CO.,
Successors to Hobson and Whiting,
13 HUNTER STREET.
MULLIN ER, LEAMINGTON.—STAN-
HOPE PHAETONS ; DOG, TANDEM, and
SPOUTING CARTS; Barouches, Laudaus, Coaches,
Harness, &c., Builder to H.M. the Queen, H.I.M.
the Empress of Austria, His Grace the Duke
of Beaufort, &c., &c. Orders telegraphed (305.)
and executed in seven weeks. English prices.
Coloured designs of latest fashions kept in stock.
WILKINSON, WILLIAMS & CO.,
Hoyle’s Chambers, Bond Street, Sydney,
Sole Agents for Australia, New Zealand, Tasmania.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Bishop Moorhouse is a grand travelling
companion. He carries a very big pipe and no
tobacco.
Sir Always and La dy Sometimes Tipsy is
what they call Lady Florence Dixie and her liege
lord in London court circles.
In regard to the movement in favour of
the release of Bechet, the Sydney Importer, now
under a seven years’ sentence for arson, it may be
mentioned that R. 8. Smythe predicted the lire
months before It occurred.
A very distinguished N.B.W. politician
once asked for the billet of Inspector of Prisons,
whereupon Mr. William Macleay, who has a knack
of saying acid things, remarked that he didn’t
mind the gentleman being Inspector of Prisons,
provided he Inspected them from outside.
“ Silly Billy,” of Melbourne, had a counter-
part in London, In the person of Mr. Arthur Ch'rke
Jervoigo, who was skinned of an estate worth
£II,OOO a year in less than two years. Two Jews, a
solicitor, and an Insurance agent, with two Chris-
tians, were “ in It.” One of the charges against
the Jews was that they had received £53,000 of
bills accepted by the prosecutor and not discounted.
The course of proceedings seemed to have run
nicely parallel with the handling of “ Silly Billy.”
That bland old gentleman, Chief Clerk
Read, of Sydney Supreme Court, Invented the
Macklnnon pen, but, through not taking proper
precautions, didn't mack (anyth)inon it. He in-
tends to be warier this time with his lamp-lighting
agency and his heat indicator, both of which are
ingenious novelties. The first is an oil or kerosene
lamp, supplied with an agent which renders the
article self-lighting and self-extinguishing, and
permits a person to cause it to perform these
operations even when it is at a considerable dis-
tance from him. The heat-indicator records tem-
peratures at a distance of 100 yards from it, and
provides also for the neutralisation of temperatures
along the line of communication.
Thus a correspondent of the Hobart Mer-
cury ; “ Some time before I left London, I
attended a sale of the effects of a gentleman who
had long resided in the colonies. The auctioneer,
an illiterate man, said: * Here’s a letter in a frame
between those two pictures, which I’ll throw in; it
seems to come from some cove who don’t expect
to live long, and writes in a dismal tone.’ I bought
these two pictures, and consequently became the
possessor of this lachrymose epistle. On their
reaching my place I took this letter from its frame.
What was my surprise to find that it was from the
explorer, W. J. Wills, dated from Cooper’s Creek,
37tn June, 1861, and addressed to his father. It was
a long letter, giving an account of his movements,
his sufferings and disappointments, and stating his
conviction that he could only live four or five days
longer, but saying that his spirits were excellent,
and his religious views unchanged.”
The Comte de Chambord’s father was the
Duke de Berry; his mother was Caroline of Naples.
The Duke was stabbed by Louvel at the Opera
House, on the 13th February, 1820: dying, he ex-
acted a pledge of his wife that she would devote
herself to the rearing of their unborn child.
Kneeling by the couch of her murdered husband
in the crush room, to which king and prelates,
peers, field-marshals and cabinet ministers had
crowded, the Duchess made the pledge required of
her. After the Revolution of 1830, Caroline raised
the White Flag in the Vendee, but her rustic army
was crushed, and she compelled to fly. Betrayed
to Thiers, then Home Minister, she was confined in
the Castle of Blaye— confined in a dual sense, since,
by the birth of Henri of Bordeaux, she was driven
to confess a secret marriage with the Count
Luchesi-Palli. The avowal exasperated the Legiti-
mist nobles and the exiled King Charles; and from
the day it was made she was treated as an alien to
the Royal cause. For all her secret marriage, she
was a woman of extraordinary fascination, full of
sweetness and tact—a princess every inch; nay,
more, the only man of the party of the Drapeau
Blanc.
A late employee of the Victorian Govern-
ment, who dabbled in literature, and who some
twelve months back visited England on leave of
absence, has made up his mind to stay “at home.”
By force of push, or what in the colonies is known
by a less euphonious term, he has drawn to him-
self the good will of several eminent London
litterateurs, John Morley has, we are told, taken
him under his wing, and the Savage Club has ad-
mitted him one of its members. He acts as London
correspondent for an English newspaper published
in Rome, does pars for the Pali. Mall Gazette,
and furnishes green-room gossip and other pro-
fessional items to the Era. This work is only, we
have no doubt, precursory of something bigger.
It would, of course, be somewhat risky to prognos-
ticate that our colonial scribbler will ever become
one of the big guns of literature, but he may. Let
us hope he unit. The fair lady for whom he enter-
tained a sort of platonic regard, and who, by the
way. Journeyed to England at about the same time,
is now, we hear, being polished up in music, by
some great professor somewhere on the Continent.
It is, therefore, quite on the cards that some day
we will hear of the publication of some composi-
tion, much superior to anything she has heretofore
given us, and dedicated to a more august person-
age than H.B.H. Prince Louis of Battenburg.
Ahem!
Mr. C. H. Bromby, the English pro Irish
agitator, at a meeting in Victoria the other even-
ing, expressed to the chairman a hope that the
reporters wouldn’t drink the glass of gin-and-
water he had provided to refresh himself with
during his oration. This remark. It seems, was
regarded by the press as a gratultlous insult, dis-
pite Mr. Brombya assertion that, at a previous
meeting, the scribes had, as a matter of fact, helped
themselves to his liquor. This is stealing Jove’s
thunder, if you like. The episode opens a wide
vista for the jaded newspaper men. If Tarplee of
the Herald could only steal all the gin and water
from the refreshment-room, how soon a lot of the
talking-engines on the floor of the House would
cease their frothy bunkum! And, Tarplee, how
d’ye like the idea of a match between your short-
hand corps, aided by gin and water, and the gab-
blers on the floor, after you had annexed and
barricaded the refreshment-room and made them
into teetotallers willy-nilly ? The present combat
between gas and grog on the floor, and unaided
brain and hand up aloft, is unequal—and murder-
ous to pressmen. It ends simply in this way: The
reporter gets consumption and goes aloft; the
membah gets cirrhosis of the liver and goes below.
And, by the way, when, several years ago, Medwin
praised Byron’s works in the presence of their
author, the poet replied: “Ah, Medwin, If you
drank as much gin and water as I do, you would
write just as well.”
Lorando Jones, the artist, etc., who lately
met with an accident, and for whom a subscription-
list is now open at Skinner’s, the bookseller's, was
the central figure of the Parramatta blasphemy
case which excited so much interest somewhere
about a decade ago. Lorando had been holding
forth in the Parramatta Park on the obscenity of
certain portions of “ the secret of England’s great-
ness,” making special allusion to some rather sen-
sational items in connection with Abraham, Sarah,
and one of the patriarch’s bewitching concubines.
Lorando bluntly said that such prurient stuff was
not fit reading for, at all events, Juveniles. He also
said a good deal more which we need not repeat.
Judge Simpson, a most practically righteous Judge,
thereupon not only imposed a stiff fine on Lorando,
but sent him up for “ astretch,” and in passing sen-
tence is alleged to have gone so far as to proclaim:
“ I will do my very utmost to put down infidelity.”
The Judge did his utmost so well and so unwar-
rantably that public indignation was aroused, with
the result that Lorando s sentence was remitted,
and he became the hero of the hour. Lorando, by
the way, is a patriarchal-looking old gentleman
whom one can well imagine a modern copy of the
flighty old father Abraham, in the contemplation
of whose little “errors of the blood” he ran him-
self into trouble. Which all goes to show that,
when you wish to analyze the “Book of Books,”
the only safe plan is to adjourn to a graveyard and
hold forth to the Shroud’s subscribers.
The wife of Henry George, the great
American political economist, is a native of
Sydney, N.B.W. She was born in a Maequarie-
strcet house. Mr. George bears, singularly enough,
considerable personal resemblance to Mr. Hugh
George, of the 8. M. Herald, although not In any
way related. He Is at present in Paris, where his
genius is fully appreciated and recognised by the
philosophic Radicals. The vast circulation of Mr.
George s great work “ Progress and Poverty”
throughout Great Britain is occasioning a positive
scan' among the landlord and privileged classes.
Already It is the text book of the democratic and
radical masses. The intelligent artizan and clerks
of the great cities have absorbed Mr. George’s
ideas. But these have taken wider root t.mn any
economic theory yet given to the world since
Christ’s teachings. There is not a Mechanics’
Institute, or Workmans’ Club, or Labourers’
Union in all England where a copy of “ Progress
and Poverty” is not kept, eagerly read, and as
earnestly discussed. Among the secrets of the
influence which this work has exerted and is daily
achieving, its plain simplicity of diction is not the
least. Anybody can understand the reasonings,
although the writer constantly rises to eloquence.
It is not only a work for philosophers, but for men.
And it doesn’t deal merely with abstract theories.
The application is made plain and direct, so that
from the skilled mechanic or salaried clerk down
to the hodman or farm hand, every reader distin-
guishes the importance to himself of the questions
Ever since M. Qrevy took the reins of
Government in France, M. Doibhr, the Paris exe-
cutioner, has had nothing to do but saunter about
the public places, or sit all day at dominoes at his
favourite cafti. This is due to the fact that the
President has adopted the ideas of Victor Hugo
regarding the folly of capital punishment. We
have been (who has not?) at Madame Tussaud’s,
and shuddered at the grim-looking guillotine
through whose window so many took their last
look of Paris and of life during the regime of the
terrible “ Safety Committee.’" But M. Delbler’s
machine, now so seldom used, is a great improve-
ment on that of Madame. It is perfect, and no culprit
of ordinary breeding could fairly grumble at the
attention devoted to his convenience. M. Deibler
himself is a quiet, unassuming man, who puts on
no airs to speak of, although, as a Cockney would
say, “he takes ’em off and ’eds along with ’em.”
He is a tailor by trade; and, as the Government
allows no perquisites except his victims’ clothes,
he has to work the latter up into “ cabbage ” —a
pretty stiff job when it comes to moleskin and
leather. Sometimes, to show visitors the perfec-
tion of his instrument, he bisects a truss of straw
before them. He is a quiet, taciturn man—pro-
bably owing to his dreadful occupation. Madame
says he is very fldgetty before and after an execu-
tion, especially it the victim runs on the “ inno-
cent ” ticket, and sticks to it. It is then that
Monsieur requires a deal of overproof to harden
his nerves for the job.
Perhaps one of the greatest literary figures
of the century is Walt Whitman, the Wagner of
verse. He has said more grand things in more un-
alluring ways than almost any man of his time.
Among the skilful versesmiths, who can carve
you arabesques of golden words, and cut thoughts
into delicate cameos, he is considered a barbarian
—a man of Thrace. In his own country he has few
admirers, though America never had a truer lover.
But those who do admire him do it with all their
heart and soul. This is because they know him
altogether. Those who deride him have, very
pro ably, never read half of what he has written—
and the half they have read has been the worst.
Most people know no more of him than that he is
the man who wrote some coarse crude stuff about
humanity, and all that sort of thing, which no per-
son with any pretensions to culture would look at
a second time. So he did; but he did more. He
wrote such lines as thes :
“Passing the yellow-spear’d wheat, every grain
from its shroud in the dark brown fields uprisen,
Passing the apjile-tree blows of white and pink in
Carrying a corpse to where it shall rest in the
grave,
Night and day Journeys a coffin.
This may not be very mathematical verse, b.itit
has the rhythm of the winds murmuring in the
great pine-forests about it. And in the last abrupt
line one can hear the thud of the clay as it falls
upon the coffin. But Walt Whitman is more than
a writer of mystic runes—he is a great-hearted
man, who loves his country and his countrymen,
and the whole world, with an undying love. His
was (he hand that held up the heads of the dying
soldiers of the North, in h< spital and on battle-
field, during the terrible civil war. His was the
song that stayed their hearts when the blue of the
sky could not be seen through the battle smoke.
His was the voice that chanted the great funeral
chant, “ When lilacs last in the door-yard
bloomed,” for President Lincoln—perhaps the
finest elegy that was ever written. This is not the
sort of man to be flouted by scrawling little per-
lormers upon “scrannel pipes of oaten straw.”
Eli Johnson, the temperance lecturer who
converted Sydney from her wicked way and left
her the moral and liquor-hating city she now is,
while he reaped some slight advantage in the form
of dollars, has been back in New York. He came
to Australia with vouchers from the Kov. Dr.
Cuyler’s church, of which he and his wife Mary
were members. Eli and Mary are both Quakers.
Now, when Eli grot back to New York, a big: recep-
tion was griven him at the Academy of Music, which
was principally managed—the reception, not the
Academy—by Henry A. Higley, a wealthy grain-
merchant, and a shining light of Henry ward
Beecher’s church in Brooklyn. At the reception,
Beecher, Talmage, Cuyler, and other big guns of
the Brooklyn churches were on the platform, and
delivered addresses, after Eli had told the people
how he had conquered drunkenness in Australia,
and left these colonies so pure that they refused to
drink any but white spirit supplied by prominent
political religionists. Eli's present trouble is that
he believes he has found out that the staid
Quakeress who has since 1850 been the partner of
his joys—his wife Mary—has been having joys
independent of the partnership. It is a lamentable
fact that Eli accuses the godly Hlgley of having
been too much of a kee-ind kerristian friend to
Mary while Eli was saving Austalia. In April last
Johnson began to smell a ra in regard to the
Christian relations of his wife and Higley. He put
detectives on the pair, but found his wife reading
a letter from Higley, which proved that the spies
had been bought off by him, and were posting him
in regard to the husband’s movements. Then
Johnson had it out with his wife, and they
separated. He, on April 30, began suit in the
Supreme Court of King’s county against Higley
for SIOO,OOO damages. His charges are categorical
and exact. He particularises the months of
February, March, April, May, June, July, August,
September, October, November, December, 1882,
and January, February, March, April, 1883, as
having been the seasons of his wrongs. This fairly
paralyzed Brooklyn, and took away the breath of
the church people of the Beecher and Cuyler con-
gregations. Delegations undertook to calm John-
son, but he wouldn’t be calmed. He would have
it out, and grew “ cussed” over it. But the cruellist
thing is that Beecher s crowd hang together as
usual, and are trying to bluff poor Eli just as they
bluffed Tilton. It is being put about that Eli John-
son is after plunder again, and a cry of blackmail
is got up against our own Eli. By the way, the
frail Mary is 45 years of age, and her pious lover
is 50.
From a Far Northern paper :—“ There are
few early residents in any of the Australian
colonies but will learn with regret that Mr. James
Hunter, the pianist and violinist, who so oft con-
tributed to their enjoyment in both concert and
ball-room, and evoked their mirth by his lively
and witty sallies in social intercourse, paid the
debt of nature on Saturday morning last, under
the hospitable roof of one of his old friends. Poor
Jimmy Hunter (the sobriquet by which he was
best known) to our knowledge leaves not an enemy
behind, his faults, such they were, creating
sympathy rather than engendering wrath. De-
ceased was a native of Aberdeen, Scotland. Jimmy
Hunter was indeed well known. He enjoyed in
the southern colonies, years ago, a well-grounded
reputation as an accomplished violinist and
orchestral leader. But before his death he had
been long down in his luck—very far down
indeed. Every miner in North Queensland
knew poor Jimmy. He saw the first days of
Gympie and of Charters Towers. He was on the
Cape River, and when the bearded men, who had
sought gold in the Californian valleys, in days
gone by, came, after tramping all over the Austra-
an continent in search of their will-o’-the-wisps,
some of them to find wealth, and other graves, on
the Palmer, Jimmy played for them and drank
with them in the dance-houses of the North. You
see a broken-down man stalking along George-
street, in a wretched threadbare coat, but a well-
cut coat withal, and you say, “ Ah, my friend, that
coat was made for you and you’ve seen better
days.” And so, when the educated miner, who
had some music in his soul, heard Jimmy Hunter
scraping out “The Wind among the Barley,” and
“The Old Plantation,” on a twenty-five shilling
fiddle in the shanty dance-house, while “The Speck-
led Hen” went spinning round with “ Yankee
Frank” and that comely Northern lady, “ The Mur-
rumbldgee Barge,” whirled about “Greasy Blil”
(the same “Greasy” who ascribed all his wondrous
luck as a prospector to his ability to smell gold
when it was about)—he, the educated miner afore-
said, knew what Jimmy hadn’t played i a dance-
house all his days. Jimmy was a tiny little fellow
whom you could almost put into your pocket.
On one occasion, after undertaking to play at a
miner’s dance at Caledonia on the Hodgkinson
River, he paid a visit to Thornborough, a few miles
distant, and got considerably “ mixed.” There was
a dance coming off at Thornborough, too, and the
enterprising proprietor of a local pub. thought it
would be a good spec, to retain Jimmy services for
his own dance, and thus “ cut out ” the Caledonia
people, who might then be unable to procure
a competent musician. Well, this plot came
to the ears of “Julia, the Black Sander-,"
a lady who derived her name from the fact
that she had been on the West Coast of New
Zealand years before. She was proprietress of the
Caledonia shanty, at which Jimmy had contracted
to play, and being a strong-minded person, she
determined to stand on her rights. So, accom-
panied by one or two male friends, she rode over
to Thornborough for the purpose of kidnapping
the diminutive violinist. When she reached the
opposition “ pub.” Jimmy was fast asleep in a hut
outside. All the better. She produced a flour bag
aud dropped him into it feet foremost. Then she
cut a hole in the side of the sack near the top, aud
pulled his head through, so that he’d have plenty
of air. And then she slung the bag, Jimmy and all,
over her back, and marched off in triumph. What
may happen to a man in Queensland.
“ If you will ask,” observes a correspondent
in the Church Review, “the editor of Truth, ho
will tell you that four queens of fashionable society
are said to have sat as nude models for the four
figures in a picture exhibited by an R.A. in the
Academy a few years ago.” He certainly will not
“tell you” anything of the kind. “The only in-
stance,” says that editor, “that I know of a fashion-
able lady sitting ‘ in the nude ’ is that of the Prin-
cess Pauline Bonaparte, who sat thus to Canova.
Some one asked her how she could have consented
to do so V Her answer was ‘ There was a fire in
the room, so I did not feel cold.’ ” The females of
the first Napoleon family were a shady lot, if the
pamphleteers who flourished on the Secret-service
money lavishly distributed by Pitt, to keep the
nation up to fighting-pitch, can be believed at all.
In the first place Napoleon’s mother was alleged to
have lived under the protection of a French General
in Corsica, by whose interest young Napoleon was
admitted to the Royal Military College at Brienne.
After the death of this oflicer, the family
was in great straits, and it is recorded that
Madame Bonaparte and two of her daughters
were expelled from the superior circle of the
theatre at Marseilles, on the ground that their
means of livlihood were such as to disqualify them
for association with respectable women. Then
again, Josephine Beauharuais is said to have been
a mistress or Barras, one of the French Directory,
and Napoleon the Great is represented as procu ring
his first important command as a reward for his
complaisance in wedding the charming Creole. One
hears none of these things now, and w hile Napoleon
111. was on cheek-kissing terms with the Queen, it
was bad form to rake up such matters, and worse
to allude to the inconvenient report that Napoleon
le Petit (as Victor Hugo termed the late Emperor)
was the offspring of a liaison between his notori-
ously giddy mother Queen Hortense and a Dutch
General whose name we forget. But, when Great
George was King, and our grandfathers enjoyed
cartoons representing him (who really needed his
bibs changed ten times a day) as a sort of demi-
god and Boney as a miserable starveling, it was
the merest common patriotism to believe all
things and worse of “The Corsican Ogre.” By
the way, Prince Victor, the young head of the pre-
sent Bonapartes, is singularly like the great
founder of his family. In fact, if Napoleon I.
were not the son of his mother’s husband, the
historical General must have been responsible for
others of her sons, judging by the family traits
transmitted to Prince Pierre—-the fellow who shot
the journalist Noir shortly before the Franco-
Prussian war—and also to Victor’s father, Prince
Napoleon. Pauline’s reply nrlngs to mind the
answer given by the young Venus who sat to
Lefevre for his “Chios.” now in Melbourne. A
visitor to to that artist’s studio, in the shape of a
lady of fashion, asked the juvenile model “ Was
she not ashamed to pose nude to artists ?” “ No,
madame, I have a good figure!” was the reply.
People anyhow acquainted with the drama
and d ramatic criticism know Clement Scott. Frank
Weston used to say Scott had once shown him ten
different criticisms, expressing ten different
opinions on a cen aln play, evolved for ten differ-
ent papers; for whom Scott was London corre-
spondent. Scott, indeed, has acquired a mild repu-
tation of working both drama and press to his own
personal ends, but has generally come out of libel
cases right side up. He is a clever pressman,
though insincere and high-faluting. We can ad-
mit so much. But, unfortunately for subscribers
to hi magazine called the Theatre, Scott imagines
himself a poet. The result of this is a perpetual
succession of poetastic hashes. These are deeply
resented, because the Theatre often contains
valuable information and solid articles concerning
the drama and dramatic work. But Scott is, as
the Earl of Euston used to call caste—inexorable.
Scarcely a number is issued free from jingles
signed “ C.S.” They are enough to turn one’s blood
to gall! Not to go back farther than this year, we
find, for example, in January, “ Beside the Sea,”
“ poem ’’—verses like this:
“ The wind blows soaward to the storm.
The sea rolls backward to the wreck,
The waves engulf the lifeless form,
And hush the horror of the deck.
All that is beautiful must die—
The faultless flow’r, the tender tree;
Yet we stand loving, you and I,
Beside the sea.”
Leaving “The Women of Mumbles Head ’’—which
afflicts the March number—severely alone, in April
we are desolated by “ A Promise of May,” poem,
thus hymned, three times over:
“ Oh I promise me that you will wait to taste
Love’s sweetest essence, till we pass this waste
Of weary wandering, and reach that shore
Silent with triumph of our nevermore,
Blue with our endless hope, and kiss'd by waves
Of perfect pleasure, far from gloom and graves
Of buried sorrows! Love! this ecstasy
Oh, promise me.”
Reaching the May number, we encounter “ Half-
way,” a noem by C.S. This rhythmic fudge hath
also three parts, bearing the respective burthens of
“Between the daylight and the dark,” “ Between
the darkness and the day,” and (encore/) “ Between
the daylight and the dark.” Take the final chunk:
“ How will it end ? I cannot tell,
I asked it many months ago,
Before the leaves of autumn fell,
And chang’d the winter’s waste of snow.
Yet we stand watching at the gate
Of summertime for promise—hark!
No, love, ’tis nothing! we must wait
Between the daylight and the dark.”
By and bye these effusions will be gathered up care-
fully to make the second volume of “ Lays of a
Londoner,” and Society will again call Clement
a “ charming versifer,” and his verses “ beautifully
pathetic poems.” Meanwhile, we can but praise his
discernment in labelling each precious delivery
“ poem.” Passing by as unnecessary any needed
explanation of curious physical phenomena—re-
pressing our admiring emotion of the original
originality of such a rapturous line as
“ All that is beautiful must die!”
—nor even asking humbly the whereabouts of that
“blue” shore (he says it’s blue!) which is
“ Silent with triumph of our nevermore ”
forgetting to enquire the constituent materials of
“the gate
“ Of summertime for promise ”
(3x6 quartering, most probably)—gently lulling
our wonderment as to how such a bard can manage
to spell—we may yet place before Clement the
desirability of shaping further “poems” on a
firmer basis. This low-minded nineteenth century
asks for and must get a solider foundation than
our “ charming versifer ” seems at present capable
of supplying. As The Bulletin is the only Aus-
tralian paper read in London, we don’t mind giving
Clement a pattern-verse which, he will find, sup-
plies the missing quality, while retaining the
metrical form especially favoured by his melodious
Muse. Mark it, Clement! fake tne little thing,
There was a merry wedding at Rolleston on the 20th May; all the more merrier because
one of tha guests, who was conveying the bride’s cake, got lost in the bush and had
to devour it.
PRINCE VICTOR BONAPARTE.


The Furniture Column.
For the sum of £3OO prompt net cash,
You can Furnish a House as follows:
DRAWING ROOM.
Bu *te. richly 8"
r o- crlms °n, or blue and gold cotelalno 25 10
L Bord walnut trichord pianoforte, by
woil? u + stool, to match suite ... 5
Walnut miaul spiral-leg table... . 515
W and U nlß?i ai< ] Bid £ bo . !lrrt with marble slabj
back and doors ...
Walnm ini« a m 6 glass ...
vvajnut inlaid music canterbury ...
Walnut inlaid corner whatnot ...
larg’el size oil paintings
tabfe gIaSS CeDtre piece
Two occasional chairs
T ardiaiere ...
Superior marble clock
Suite of vases .
Juplex lamp
Gilt cornice for window...
Pair lace curtains ...
Pair curtain holders
Bronzed fender ~
Set fire irons ...
Coal scuttle *
Brussels carpet, choice oif pretty patterns 0
Large Axminster hearth rug ... ' "
Pair hassocks .
Wool mat ... >t<
HALL.
Hat and umbrella star d ... •>
Pair of hall chairs ... %
Hall oilcloth ... ...
Door mat ...
Scraper
12 10
6 15
3 5
1 10
1 15
1 10
1 1
2 2
J 5
3 5
2 10
1 5
1 12
18
5
1 1
12
10
5
1
9
9
DINING ROOM.
Mass! ve leather dining room suite
Telescope table, 7 feet
Five feet sideboard with cellaret
Pier glass, 40 x 30
Book case ...
Dinner waggon
Set papier trays ...
Dining room lamp
Back marble clock ’** "*
Pair handsome lustres
Pairl?ce P cu e rt W alM ri . ng8 ’ PinS ’ and b ™ cket ' B
Curtain bands
Fender and irons ... ”,
Chintz pattern oilcloth, or carpet ...
Axminster hearth rug ...
Axminster door slip ... \\\
BEDROOM No. 1.
Handsome flowered four-post tubular bed-
stead
Set mosquito curtains .. ”
Pair best palliasses .. .. ] ]
Horsehair mattress..
Kapok bolster .. .. . ’
Pair feather pillows.. .' ~
Full size toilet pair, large swing glass, and
marble top washstand ..
Rich double toilet set
Cut glass caraffe ...
Table toilets
Twist towel horse ..
Plate glass door wardrobe
Large seven-door cedar chest oif drawers"
Large arm rocking chair..
Two bedroom chairs
Tapestry carpet, choice of pat’teius".
BEDROOM No. 2.
Double tubular bedstead, head & foot rails
Pair palllases
Flock mattress .. .. "
Flock bolster
Pair feather pillows
Large chest drawers
Pair three feet mahogany toilets ."
W hite and gold toilet set..
Fern water caraffe
Towel horse
Folding chair
Two C. S. chairs
Fancy or white matting for room !. “
BEDROOM No. 3.
Three feet half-tester bedstead
Pair palliasses 10s. 6d., mattress 10s. 6d. ''
Bolster 35., feather pillow ss» ..
Cedar chest drawers
Towel rail washstand 12s 6d, Toilet set 10s 6d
Water caraffe Is 3d, toilet table 10s ..
Toilet glass 7s, C.S. chair 5s
Matting
SERVANT’S ROOM.
Half-tester bedstead
Pair palliasses .. ..
Mattress 9s 6d, bolster 2s 6d ",
Flock pillow
Washstand and granite toilet set
Toilet table 7s 6d, toilet glass 3s 6d
C hair 2s 6d, matting 2s 6d .. "
KITCHEN.
Dresser with drawer
Round wire, or pine meat safe
Table with drawer 12s 6d, two chairs 7s
Kitchen clock
Dinner service .. ..
Pink band and gold tea and breakfast set
Electi’o-plated tea and coffee service
Electro-plated revolving: cruet
Set dish covers
Bread platter and knife ..
Set banded jugs 6s 6d, pair cut salts 3s
Suite of engraved glassware, as follows
Set of four decanters
12 tumblers 10s, 12 sherry wines 6s
12 port wines 6s, 12 soda glasses 10s
12 custard glasses 12s, 12 jelly glasses 12s ' ’
Cutlery as f oUows
12 dinner knives 15s, -2 dessert knives 12s
12 dinner forks 12s, 12 dessert forks 10s
Two pair carvers 11s, steel 2s
Four tablespoons 4s, 12 dessert spoons 10s"
L. tea spoons 6s, 12 egg spoons 6s
Two salt spoons 2s, mustard spoon is
Two sauce ladles 7s, soup ladle 5s 6d
Knife box 2s 6d, plate basket 5s
Glass water jug
Two bedroom candlesticks ."
Kettle 8s 6d, boiler 13s, stew-pan 5s 6d
Four saucepans lls 9d, frying-pan 2s ’!
Gridiron Is 6d, teapot 2s, coffee pot 2s
Tea cad dy Is, canisters 3s 6d, colander 2s ‘ ’
Wash b asm 2s, dipper Is. tubs ss, 6s 6d, 7s 6d
Buckejts Is 9d, 2s, patent washer 5s ..
Two t n candlesticks
Baking dishes Is 3d, Is 9d..
Cake tins Is 3d, Is 9d
Bread grater 9d, Pepper caster 6d
Flour dredge 9d, Gravy strainer Is 3d
Nutmeg grater 3d, Set skewers Is .
Kitchen spoon
Nest of housemaid’s boxes
Paste board and roller ..
Set Mrs. Pott’s irbns '
Ironing board 3s 9d, Pair bellows 2s 6d
Banister brush Is 9d, Toilet watercan 4s ‘ ‘
Dust pan
Knife board and polish
Millet broom |
Hair broom
Scrub brush .. .. . ] “
Set shoe brushes
Set black lead brushes .. ".
0 C
0 (
18
5
3
27 10 C
6 10 t
7 10 0
3 15
5 15
2 0
16 .
14 6
2 15
1 5
18 0
10 6
5
1 5 _
2 16 0
15 0
4 0
5 5 0
17 6
17 6
4 10 0
9 6
15 0
11 10 0
3 0 0
4 6
10 6
12 6
9 10 0
5 10 0
16 6
15 0
3 10 0
3 0 0
15 0
1 16 0
6 6
10 0
8 16 0
5 15
16
1
6
0
0
6
6
8 6
10 0
16 0
8 6
1 0
8 0
5 0
3 0
11 3
12 0
12 0
15 0
9 6
0°
15 6
11 0
5 0
1 7
1 2
19 6
7 6
4 2
2 10
1 16
1 1
1 15
6 6
9 6
10 0
16 0
16 0
14 0
1 7
1 2
13
14 0
12 0
3 0
12 6
7 _
4 6
8 0
17 0
13 9
5 6
6 6
12 0
8 9
1
3 0
3 0
1 3
2 0
1 3
6
3 0
3 6
6 9
6 3
5 9
3 6
£3OO 0 0
Campbell Brothers,
Eoyal Furnishing Arcade,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT THE KOTAL HOTEL.
Mr. DbCourcy Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 126 Pitt-street, Sydney
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Departments undertaken. Titles a
special ity.—A pvt.
Nowhere perhaps has the dentist’s art obtained
such high excellence as in Sydney. Certainly we
are in no sense behind any other city. Visitors to
Sydney might, to test this, visit the establishment
of Messrs. Adolphe Gabriel and Company, 18 Wvn-
yard Square, two doors from Pfanlert’s Hotel
Here the manufacture of every essential in the
Brof ession is carried on. At the rear of the surgery
t a compact little factory where all the requisites
for supplying every dental defect In the human
mouth are made. Messrs. Gabriel and Co. (whose
only address is as above) are always pleased to
show their specimens of artificial teeth to those
interested. There being two firms of the same
name in the Square, patients will oblige by paving
particular attention to the Christian name, Adolphe
and the number, 18, two doors from Pfahlert’s
Hotel.—Ad vr.
the tiny offering-, the trembling suggestion! ’Tis
yours, dear boy! Peruse this ovum of future
lovely lays—place it in your gifted bosom—we
make no charge! Be happy, and think often of
your Australian friends “beside the sea.” Thus
our pearl—capable of indefinite enlargement—and
bearing as title:
“ When on the Beer” “Poem.”
The wind blasts up between our lips,
The eye rolls backward to the pub,
The throat engulfs some thousand sips,
And drowns the remnants of our grub.
All that is beautiful seems dry,
The landlord’s nose—the barmaid’s leer;
Yet we stand steady, you and I,
When on the beer.”
The theory that it is Bradlaugh’s irreligion
that prevents his entrance to Parliament—a theory
so industriously circulated by those whose Interest
It is to spread it—ls nearly exploded. People are
seeing that it Is too transparent—far “too thin.”
They know that men with not a tenth of his
brains, and with no religion whatever, whose oath
is not worth the breath they waste, are admitted
to Parliament without any quibble. The fact is,
Bradlaugh is feared by those who are in every
way—in honesty, ability, purity la life and
thought—hi« inferiors. These men it is, many of
them professedly religious, who try to besmirch
his character by idle tales, who grasp at any canard
that tells against his reputation, and, without the
least care as to its truth, retail it out with all the
assurance of knowledge o’ facts, and all the cruel
uncharitableness of self-elected saints. From
these an honest man will willingly turn to a fair
and i nvarnished account of Bradlaugh’s struggles
up to his present position, detailing with equal
exactitude his failures and his victories, a well-
written account of personal recollections, where
nought is extenuated nor aught set down in
malice. ft is by H.V.W., and from the long
three columns which lately appeared in the Tam-
worth News we abridge the sub tance as nearly
as possible in the writer’s words. “About 18541 first
saw Charles Bradlaugh, then a very young man.
He was being escorted to the police station for the
heinous offence of haranguing an open-air meeting
on political matters, and I distinctly recollect his
tall, loose, ungainly figure, and strongly-marked
features, as he was borne along in the crowd. One
Sunday morning afterwards he delivered a speech
in which Atheism and temperance were strangely
blended. There was little promise that the rough,
jerky sneaker, full of ungraceful action, would
develop into one of England’s greatest orators.
Bradlaugh was not popular then ; he was
addressing an audience the greater number of
whom had known him since childhood as the
big, lubberly, stupid boy of the pew-opener
at St. Peters’ Church, not a quarter of a mile away,
and a prophet hath no honour in his own country.
During his few years at Abbey-street Sc 001, he
was an incorrigible dunce and truant, the butt of
every boy h*lf his size. Bradlaugh was one of the
earliest pioneers of teetotalism. I next saw him
in 1860—he having in the interim served as a pri-
vate soldier—when London and the large provin-
cial towns were being much disturbed by the bold
and uncompromising attacks made by a young
lecturer, ‘ Iconoclast,’ on revealed religion. To
the old Hah of Science, in City Road, I went one
night to hear him debate with the Rev. Joseph
Barker, a dissenting minister. Judge my surprise,
‘ Iconoclast ’ was the Bonnor’s Field boy lecturer,
Charles Bradlaugh. Of the debate I need say
little. Bradlaugh at that time was coarse and
bitter. He had a peculiarly offensive manner, and
showed decidedly few traits of a gentleman. In-
ordinate vanity was apparent in his every word
and action. But his power of speech, his torrents
of fleice invectives, his scathing satire, his marvel-
lous imagery and play of fancy, his dramatic
power, everything, but his lonic, were incompar-
able. His opponent was a mild-spoken gentleman,
who showed Christian forbearance and perfect
charity under most unprovoked and coarse per-
sonal attacks. Somewhat later, ‘lconoclast’ debated
with Thomas Cooper; himself, a few years before,
one of the ablest of Freethought lecturers, but
now a champion of Christianity. I have
heard many debates, but this stands out in bold
relief on the tablets of my memory as the only
one that was not a mere contention of worse than
idle tongues. Thomas Cooper, then already grey,
and verging upon old age, was physically, as in
everything else, the opposite of his opponent.
Quiet, self-possessed, refined in language, pitiless
in his logic, following with the patience and tena-
city of a sleuth-hound the twistings and windings
of argument and speech into which he drove the
fiery and declamatory ‘ Iconoclast,’ and at the last
tearing a ide the veil and revealing him before his
audience as a poor apology for a ghastly plagiarism
of the great apostles of Freethought who had
spoken in that nail years before, and made its
walls sacred to the name of freedom. He achieved
such a victory as even won the admiration and
praise of the opposing party, and for ever made
Charles Bradlaugh hold nis peace so far as issuing
challenges for debate with him. Between 1860-79,
I heard Bradlaugh debate with B. Harris Cooper,
chairman of the Christian Evidence Society,
Brother Ignatius, who held his own. Dr. Sexton.
J. H. Gordon, and Brewin Grant. Grant debated
with him twice for ten nights; the first debate
broke up with a riot on the ninth night, and was
finished m the open air, and the second was carried
through to the bitter and weary end. A verbatim
report was paid for out of receipts at the door. I
think Bradlaugh is at his worst discussing theologi-
cal questions. As a politician and social reformer,
he is liberal, keen, eloquent, patriotic, generous to
an adversary, and rises to the subllmest heights of
oratory: when opposed to religion, either with
tongue or pen, he is vain in manner, coarse and
brutal in speech, intolerant, weak and vapid.
Bradlaugh has won his popularity in spite of his
blatant atheism, not because of it. As a social
reformer and politician, his splendid services, his
steady self-denying labours, and his magnificent
ability, have endeared him to the bulk of the
people, despite their instinctive repugnance to
avowed atheism, It has been the one drawback of
his life, and had he chosen to mince matters, he
could have been in the House of Commons years
ago. All through the bitter American War, he for
ever lifted up his voice against the unholy alliance
that many of the titled and the cotton lords would
have made with slavery and the South. During
the terrible cotton famine in the north of England,
no man spoke wiser, kindlier words than Charles
Bradlaugh. In the struggle for household suffrage
and all the agitation prior to the Reform League,
he took a prominent part. On the memorable day,
when to vindicate the right of public meeting in
the National Parks, we pulled down the Hyde
Park railings, I marched in the procession with
Charles Bradlauga for my marshal. I think I can
s-e his stalwart form now, and hear the clear tones
of his far-sounding voice, when each taking hold
of the head of a rail at his command, we gave a
’long pull, a strong pull, and a pull altogether,’
and down went the railings and we marched in in
the face of police and soldiers (who were concealed
ready for action in the Marble Arch and the
Powder Magazine), and took peaceful possession of
the Park. That day decided for ever the right of
public meeting in State Parks. During the Franco-
Prussian war Bradlau h did great service to Eng-
land. Molke was drawing his terrible girdle of fire
and steel around Paris—England was boiling with
excitement at the spectacle of more than a million
human beings locked up in a beleaguered city,
suffering all the combined horrors of famine and
bombardment—and the only terms asked by Bis-
marck were such as seemed to extinguish France
as a nation. It was too much for the London
Radicals, and they lost their heads. A public
meeting was convened, and St. James’ Hall was
packed from floor to ceiling, with thousands out-
side. Speaker after speaker rose, and in passion-
r9 nes urged that the English Government
should protest, ‘and, if necessary, in the name of
humanity, make an armed intervention.’ Just as
the resolution was being put, a man stepped from
the back of the platform and handed the chairman
“U amendment. For the first time for many years,
Charles Bradlaugh found himself before a hostile
audience, facing such hostility as, perhaps, no
other man in England at that moment would have
Pfat'ed. The turbulent audience was now on its
ieet, en " osse. For a few moments he spoke as to
f toanng sea; but ever and anon between the lulls
storm his voice was heard—calm, clear,
and incisive. At last the love of fair play
prevailed, and he got a hearing. He spoke of his
o°f'hi<fsmi?’^’i ICe, i 0f * is 9 >' m Pathy in her distress
found • w ß^ nginer fS r *l ome means of !> el P to be
ifv wi* ow ld f h ? course they proposed
effect It ? He pointed out that England was power
men onnM°h rCe Ita , ia ference-that before
,“ e ° ccuid be mobilised, Paris would have capitu
W; hat if England interfered for France, othei
?£?«i WOU d for Germany, and a frightful Con-
J: 1 cental war would ensue; he ended by making a
P° ful p P. eal for wl, at had been his life-long
&iP nclpl \ ! oral Force.’ kittle by little
Of Idf „ Is s 2 eecl i Brad laugh had, by sheer force
"? a sm flcen t eioquence and unanswerable
gamed over his hearers, and at its close his
'/^® r y’ f was , com P Ie t e - He sat down amidst a
*, a PP laus e- An amendment in favour of a
protest of words alone was carried. Looking at
ao°"l’ we know Bradlaugh was right.
Amerlca > was noticed that hehad
A of hi ® coarseness, and remarked that he
snowed more tolerance of and more charity to
Uinstiamty and its professors. His reply was
L better side of Christianity
—there is no State Church there.’ In 1874, he was
w i th J°|cpb Arch in championing the
cause of the degraded agricultural labourers of
England; and it says much for Bradlaugh’s toler-
ance and good taste that through this struggle for
their emancipation, he, the great Atheist, worked
willingly and well, and shoulder to shoulder, with
the Methodist local preacher, John Arch. When
Pilmsoll, after ‘ shaking his list in the Speaker’s
face, appealed to the country to help him save the
lives of the sailors, all England rose In righteous
indignation. Meetings were held, I and Dr.
Bowkett arranged for one, and Bradlaugh was
telegraphed for. He broke a profitable lecturing
engagement and came. What a speech he made!
Our platform was an empty coal waggon placed
against the gates of the Dock. Our audience was
made up of sailors, shipwrights, stevedores, sail-
and aU the labourers of the docks. Fully
10,000 were there. At the close of the lecture we
were literally carried away by the excited sailors.
after a temporary Bill was passed.
About 1876, Bradlaugh and Mrs. Annie Besant first
came before the public as co-workers. While giv-
ing both credit for purity of motive and honour in
association, the connection was unfo tunate—the
more so, as Bradlaugh had wedded unhappily.
Those only who were his closest friends knew how
much he suffered, and how nobly he bore the
bitter trial ot his married life; but I never heard
one well grounded word of suspicion against his
moral character. The stand taken in connection
with th* book 4 Fruits of Philosophy * was also
unfortunate, but I be.Ueved then, and do now,
that, from first to last, the case was misunderstood
by the greater part of the English public; and by
the whole of the Australian public, if one can take
the public press of Australia as a reflex of public
opinion. What was contended for was the right
of publication, and the right of openly discussing
any question that affected the moral and social
welfare of the people. He might have been mis-
taken, and I, for one, think that he was, in mak-
ing a stand over such a book, and such a subject;
but his bona fides and purity I cannot doubt.
It is simply nonsense to class him with that vilest
and most despicable of all creatures, the publisher
of obscene books. The record of Bradlaugh's life
gives the lie to that. A purer-minded man, or one
freer from pruriency, never lived. With his two
daughters, Bradlaugh lives, when at home, a pure
and stainless family life.” . . By the way, in the
recent Genesis v. Science debate, young Mr. Spicer
asked, “ Who is Mr. Bradlaugh ?” It seems almost
ridiculous to notice the circumstance; but to the
very young. Inexperienced, and callow curate who,
with such superfine egotism, sneeringly asked that
question, we can honestly recommend a perusal of
tnis account. “ Who is Mr. Spicer ?
* ♦ *
When War Correspondent Forbes gets out
of this continent, he might profitably lecture in
some other one on his Australian Experiences, say,
(1) “Galoots I have written for; ” (3) “ Squattahs
and C.M.G.’s I have loaned coin to,” and so on
In Cooma, they talk about calling upon the Mayor
to resign, and this is how the Mayor (Mr. G. W.
Spring) speaks about it in his paper: “Yesterday,
some very insulting requisitions, the production
of a half-witted alderman, an auctioneer, a be-
sotted lawyer, and Judas Iscariot, were sent to the
Mayor, who would like to interview the alderman,
his brother-in-law, the J.P., or the Rough. One
geebung at a time. R.1.P.” His Worship should
have headed this par. with the representation of a
coffin—Old Bill Cox, of Muswellbrook, passed in
his checks on Thursday last... The Hon. Professor
John Smith, M.L.C., C.M.G., M.D.. LL.D., etc. etc.,
has returned to the colony. He‘ll be digging up
those antediluvian lectures on Experimental Phy-
sics again, and redelivering them—when he can
find time—Miss Kennedy, in cabling her thanks
for messages of condolence, says that the death of
her fatner, Sir Arthur, was “happy and painless.”
.. “Modesty,” wrote La Bruyere, “is to merit what a
shadow is to a figure, it gives it both strength and
relief.” Spicer evidently agrees with the French
satirist, since he thus writes of himself in a letter
to the Australian Churchman: “I have been
scrutinised by the leading scientist in Australia,
and gained the highest honours possible in Aus-
tralia.” How’s that for 1?....Mr. Tyrell, pro-
prietor of the Westport (N.Z.) Star, has been
convicted of libel, and fined £50....J0hn Davies
couldn’tspcll “ January ” in fourgoes. A Victorian
J.P. the other day spelt December “ Disymbr.”....
C.M.G. means “ Can’t Manage Grammar.” It also
means ‘ Conceals Much Grub.”.... A few days ago,
as the mail train was passing Ashfleld station at a
vehement rate of speed, a large chunk of coal was
violently projected against the cheek of a well-
known assurance canvasser—and, as a natural
consequence, instantly pulverised to atoms. As-
surance and cheek are the same thing.... Mr. John
Bright, of Wollongong, has died of typhoid In
England, whither he recently went with his newly-
wife... Mrs. Mitchell Gawler has died at
Adelaide, aged 100, and in full possession of her
faculties to the last— Mr. Thomas Taylor, partner
. t “ e Arm of Messrs. Finney, Isles, and Co., of
Brisbane, is dead—Mrs. Ransom, the old lady
recently found wandering about Windsor (Vic.) is
a sister ot the late Lieutenant Waghorn, who de-
voted M th< ? b ® Bt P art of his life to connect India
with England by steam mail service. She resides in
Prahran, and is one of the sisters to whom the Im-
perial Goverment declined to continue pensions
New Governor of Queensland, Sir A. Musgrave.
banqueted in London last week by the Agent-
General for Queensland The Dr. Lang memorial
movement halts in N.S.W. Auld lang syne is all
vo . r y 80 fong as a bawbee accompaniment isn’t
asked f0r.... Professor Anderson Stuart appointed
Dean of Faculty of Medicine, Sydney University,
vUx Smith, resigned.. ..Psofessor Liversldge is Dean
of new faculty of Science, Sydney University....
Beveridge, late C.P.S. at Warratah, appointed
P.M. at Brewarnna; banqueted at Lambton last
ek ; Ex- li te-Gaardßman....Rev. John Hobbs,
oldest Wcsieyan missionary in Australasia, died the
other day in New Zealand, aged 85. He leaves a
widow, seven children, thirty grandchildren, and
six greatgrandchildren, and no coin... Two Wes-
leyan ministers, Rev. T. Buddie and Rev. R. Hobbs
died at Auckland within a day or two of each
other. Both were very old N.Z. colonists, the
former having been in Auckland since 1840.
• •
Prince Louis, son of Prince Jerome Napo-
leon, will enter Cheltenham College during the
pres nt month, and will stay there until he enters
the French army .. Josiah Henson, now dead, the
original of Uncle Tom, was born of slave parents
in Maryland, and attained the ripe age of 93 before
he was summoned to another world. In his time
the deceased was sold over and over again, was
flogged, and had to suffer all the horrors of the
fugitive s w nderings by night in the woods of
Indiana. In 1830 Henson reached the Canadian
shore, and he felt that he was a free man. His first
impulse was to throw himself on the ground, roll
in the sand, and behave generally like a lunatic.
In British territory he acquired property, became
a Methodist preacner, and devoted himself to the
liberation of those he left behind in captivity.
He afterwards went into the lumber trade, and
was successful.... Huxley succeeds Sabine as Presi-
dent of the Royal Society — Belt v. Lawes to be
tried again. Let us hope not before Huddlestone.
•• lather Tom Burke dead. Born at Galway
about 1830. Educated by the Dominicans, of whose
order he became a distinguished ornament. In his
great tussle with Froude, a considerable consensus
t j P i n i on ho,ds be didn’t have the worst of it....
Judah P. Benjamin, the great lawyer, now seventy-
two years old, stands or walks as erect as a man of
half his age. He is of less than medium height,
well-proportioned, and has a fine, Interesting, but
not noticeably strong face. He dresses plainly in
black, with no jewellery save a seal ring and scarf-
pin.... London journalistic items:—Labouchero is
a large proprietor in the Daily News, which fre-
quently attacks him as a public man. W. H.
Smith, late ruler of the Queen’s Navee, has bought
into the Daily Telegraph, the paper with which
formerly he waged furious war. J. Chamberlain,
the Radical Cabinet Minister, has lately become a
large proprietor of the Standard, the leading
Conservative daily... A caller recently found
Oscar Wilde in Pans lounging luxuriously in an
arm-ch dr, attired in a green velvet Jacket, salmon-
coloured neckcloth, burnt sienna knee-breeches
and red stockings. At the back of his head
was a tiger-skin, and strewn about in studied
disorder lay a score of yellow-covered novels
Modern inventions playing the deuce with
the the Divine Right. Only last week a bicyclist
ran into Leopold 11. of Belgium, knocking him
into a cocked hat; while Albert I. of Saxonv
narrowly escaped a fatal smash when ascending a
factory lift—There lives in Munich, aged 80, the
daughter of Palm, the bookseller of Nurnberg.
who printed a pamphlet against Napoleon 1., and
was relentlessly shot by him in spite of all efforts
She lives principally upon a small pension paid bv
the successors of a Berlin house, at whose instance
the pamphlet was printed, but whose names Palm
refused to disclose.
Benevolbnt Party : “No, ftiy man, I havn’t a soup-tioket. But look here, you can
have this ticket for Milman and Gorpill’s Laud Sale. Free lunch, you know ?”


W. Howard Smith and Sonsr<
STRUTH’S WHARF and NEW WHARF
(Foot of King Street).
Offices: 43 KING STREET.
WED: '
Steamers Brisbane to Port Mackay and Townsville'
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
3000 Geelong
Bunlnyong
Barrabool
*Burv.ah
Cheviot
Derwent
Edina
*Gabo..
♦ To arrive.
W. HOWARD SMITH and SONS.
43 King Street, Sydney.
1000
1000
1500
500
400
3000
Keilawarra ..
Konoowarra
Loura
Moreton
Rodondo
You Yangs ..
500*
900'
1500*
1500'
600*
1200'
700
Armstrong:’* Remedy for Internal or
Bleeding: Piles
Rapidly superseding all other modes of treatment*
of HEMMBRHOIDS, largely pre-
Faculty. It improves the general
alises the CIRCULATION, relieves
, Stops BLEEDING, Pain, and Itch-
to 38 hours. Sold in bottles only, at
ARMSTRONG’S PARAGON PILE OINTMENT,
FOR OUTWARD PILES. Price, 2s.
Armstrong’s (Camomile) Ldver and Bilious
Pills,
For the Cure of Indigestion, Dyspepsia,P alns in
the Side, Headache, Giddiness, Heartburn, flatu-
lency, and Habitual Constipation. They give a
Healthy Tone and Vigour to the necessary Organs
of Digestion—the Stomach and Liver—and being
mild in their operation, promote Digestion, restore
the Appetite, and strengthen the entire System.
Price, Is., 35., and 4s. (id.
Armstrong’s Red Jamaica Sarsaparilla, .
in Combination with Dandelion and Potash.
“ Recommended by the Highest Medical authority '
as a Vitalising Blood Restorative and Tonic.”
ss. 6d., 10s. 6d., 21s.
Goods forwarded to all parts of the colonies •
and Price Lists sent post free.
I<3o PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Two Doors below Compagnonl’s.
For the CURE
scribed by the
HEALTH, equ
CONGESTION,
ing, in from 24
4s. 6d. and 10s.
Bad Legs, Constitutional
Diseases, &c.
To Mr. Cooper, 340 Crown-street.
For five years 1 suffered intensely with bad legs;
I have been treated by our best doctors, and I have
tried nearly every remedy procurable, bat I gene-
rally grew‘worse instead of better. My ago is 52,
and I fully expected to suffer for the rest of my
life, until 1 heard of some of your cures, and
before 1 had been a week under your treatment I
was better. My legs are quite healed, and I never
felt better in my life than I do now.—Mrs. E.
Harden, Tate-street, North Shore.
To Mr. Cooper.
I wish to make known the benefit of your treat-
ment in my case. I had bad legs for two years,
and could get no relief anywhere ; you cured me
in less than a month—R. T. Eastway, Eastway
Brothers, George-street.
To Mr. Cooper.
I beg to add my testimony tb the efficiency of
your treatment. I had a bad leg for 1(5 months ; I
was under the care of three doctors, but when I
came to you I was worse than before. My leg is
now quite healed, and lam well. I give you this,
so that others suffering may know where to go to
get cured.—James M. 1 lovd, Fairford-street,
Petersham.
Other Testimonials too numerous to print.
Hundreds of people in New South Wales can
testify to the cures effected by H. VV. Cooper’s in-
vention, and he has only been in the colony nine
months.
11. W. COOPER, 340 Crown-street,
Opposite Reservoir.
Advice gratis.
EURE
KA
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
|y THE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco of the Age 1
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The only Tobacco combining Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Price.
Each PLUG is STAMPED with the word
“ EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtaiu it.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
Saywell’s Tohcco Go., Lin.
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
And can be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse,
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO,
Registered according to Act of Parliament, to pro-
tect the public against spurious and werthless
imitations.
Emil Paterson,
ARCHITECT AND CIVIL ENGINEER*
NO. 4 PITT STREET.
THE BUGGIES OF THE PERIOD.
Unequalled for Durability and Elegance.
WAGGONETTES & EXPRESS WAGGON S
JST FIRST-CLASS WORK ONLY IMPORTED.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 2 & 24 Clarence-st,
SYDNEY.
RRRDK SI S E WIN G | CQTTO N S
m
s
%
SB)
o
E
o
30
O
o
o
S
o
H 7
SS 5,
>.E
% mP 1
5^7
BROOK'S SIX-CORD
SOFT COTTON
ON
NEW SHOULDER REEL.
VERY CAREFULLY MADE
FOB
BROOK’S PATENT
IGLAC£ THREAD
O"
SHOULDER REEL.
Gibbs, Bright & Co.,
S 3 Fitt Street,
MEEKS, SB ul COMMISSI MS,
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE and DUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS SONS & CO., LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
Principal Agencies :
J. C. Goatling and Company (Limited)—Portland
Bo Company, of Paisley-Sugar Maeh.nery. Launch Engines. &e.. *c.
Thos. Glover and Company, London— Patent Di> Gas Meters.
Vivian and Sons-Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Peynrorsedd Slate Company (Limit ed)-Bangor Sla tes.
The Quicksilver Mining Company, San I rancisco—Quicksm er.
Eels and Company, of Patras and Corfu—Currants.
Thos. Bell and Co.—English Hams, Bacon, &c., &c.
sh “' ,ron - bo " m rl “ ,c ’’ ,ron ,na
Thos. Perry an,l Soil, ililiston- Fire-resisting Safes, Bedsteads, See.
The Royal Vesta Company—Wax Vestas.
J. Reckitt and Sons (Limited)— Square Blue.
Browns and Company, Glasgow—Corn Flour.
Brunton and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse.
Thos. N. Hunt—Port Wine.
Dubos Freres—Bordeaux Wines.
Millers, Crook well
„ Corowa
~ Jindera
Flour.
Do.
Do.
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Scott and Mullaly, Millers, Cpotnmnndra-Flour. | Cox, Bros.,
r AllsouD. „ Murrnmburrah Do. Graham, Bros.,
f! J. O’Leary and Co., „ Bnrrowa Do. 1 Jindera Mdl Co.,
VICTORIA.
lames Fry and Co., Ballarat-The celebrated 5 Star |
I 1 lour.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
W. C. Harrison and Co., Millers, Port Adelaide. IH. Hincks, Millers, Port Victoria.
Truslove and Addison „ Orroroo. I
Consignments of Flour and other Mill Produce received for sale In the Sydney market. Liberal
Consignments 01 made, if required, and account sales promptly rendered.
*2s- indents executed on the most favourable terms, from all partsof the world. Consignments of
lndents received for shipment to London, under liberal advances.
o
B R
HOUSE
Lessee, W. J. Wilson. Sub-Lessee, A. T. Downing.
Stage Manager, T. B. Appleby.
Treasurer, J. P. Goldsworthy.
The inofet Successful Opera Bonffb of the day.
MANTEAUX NOIRS
(Black Cloaks).
N.B.—This famous work was performed for
fevon Months at the Avenue, London, and will bo
ju-odlichd on a scale of
I E NPARALIBELED SPLENDOUR.
THIS and EVERY EVENING.
Admission—Dress Circle. ss. ( Stalls. 35.; Pit, 2s.
Box plan at Huenerblen's Music Warehouse, 411
George-street, where seats may be secured for any
date in advance. Day tickets obtained at
Stone’s, tobacconist, next Theatre.
Secretary to A. T. Dunning, A. N. Hallifax.
T
IHEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & Musgrove.
4th WEEK AND ESTABLISHED SUCCESS of
MISS JENNIE LEE,
as
“JO,”
played by her over 2000 times in the principal cities
of the world, supported by
Mr. J. P. BURNETT
and a carefully selected Company.
Business Manager for Miss Lee, LIDDY.
GREAT SIX DAYS’ WALKING MATCH, for
the Championship of Now South Wales, for
hand fide residents of New South V ales. Entries
Point me resmeuis di 1 m ,
to close SATURDAY, 14th JULTi, at T. PUNCH 8,
Market-street, at 10 p.m. Match to commence oth
AUGUST.
Prizes First
Second
Third 20
Fourth ..
Promoters—J. CAMPBELL &J. W, TAYLOR.
Entrance money, £5.
B
EAUMONT READ, at present in Sydney, can
accept Engagements tor Concerts. Address
Carlton House,
Gordon-street,
Paddington.
V
ICTORIA HALL,
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Lessee
Mr. F. E. HiSCOCKS.
The most Elegant, Fashionable, and Popular
Place of Amusement In Australia, well adapted
Dm any first-class entertainments. The Lessee open
to Rent or otherwise. Apply
WM. MARSHALL,
Lorgnette Office, Melbourne.
TO CIRCUS PROPRIETORS, SHOWMEN, &C., &c.
Cur TAYLOR is willing to HIRE OUT the
. %RA YELLING CONVENIENCES” of the
Stray Leaves Company, for six months, on \eij
reasonable terms. Luggage Cm eitd Wag-
gonette, Double-seated nuggy, and 9 good Horscs,
in splendid condition. Apply to C. FULLER,
Foster’s Theatre Royai Hotel, Castlereagh-street,
Sydney 8 0r.0.H. TAYLOR, 3 Bolchall Terrace,
Charlcs-street, St. Kilda, Melbourne.
EDUCATIONAL.
MISS LYDIA HASTINGS Instructs In ELOCU-
TION VOICE BUILDING, PUBLIC and
PARLOUR READINGS. Class at School of Arts,
4 pm. (for Ladles) ; at Sydney Arcade, Room 35,
Wednesday, 8 p.m. (Ladies and Gentlemen).
Private "Lessons, for Ladies or Gentlemen, 1-1
PHILLIP STREET. .
Terms for Schools or Clubs on application.
m-r S W RACING COMPANY’S CONSUL-
\T TATiONS on METROPOLITAN STAKES
and MELBOURNE CUP.
To be RUN at RAND WICK, TUESDAY, Sept. 4.
50,000 Shares at 10s. per Share-£25J)00.
Ist Horse ... ;;; ****
” •" 1000
Jra ~ ••• inm
Starters ... ••• ••• Ycxx
Non-Star tere ••
For 149 Horses .. •• •• £lO,OOO
117 Prize Gifts-266 Prizes in all.
1 Prize Gift
3 ”
4
8 ,
20
40
40
117 Prize Gifts
at £5OO
at 250
at 125
at 100
at
at
50
£4OOO
2000
1000
1000
1000
1000
2000
2000
1000
£15,000
Applicat ion by Letter only, addressed W. BURN-
HARD, care Box 255, G.P.0., Sydney'.
p g —Applicants will please state for which event.
All parties are requested to forward Drafts, P.O.
Orders, or Cheques ; if Cash, to register letters
Results sent to Shareholders and published in the
Leading Weekly Papers of the Colonies.
The Drawing will take place before a Committee
of Shareholders.
ByauTJ
(grtApOAUTf //
mMPAGNLI *
HIHLAOEL
L
A". I
V
’m out of form. Can’t keep up to work.”
)h, if that’s all, old man, I’ll have you as brisk as a
tet in a jiffy. Here, Walter! large bottle of
la’s White Label. This is a wine one can’t get
•ywhere; and if it doesn’t set you up, Frank, I’ll
i you a new hat.”
mm few a co„
AGENTS.
THE COVENTRY MACHINISTS COMPANY
MAKERS BY SPECIAL WARRANT TO H.R.H. THE PRINCE OF WALES.
THE SPECIAL CLUB.
trade mark registered.
Intending Purchasers of
Bicycles & Tricycles
Should Write to Us or Call on Us.
As wc have always on hand a full
Stock of THE CLUB BICYCLES and
TBICYCLES, we never fail to give
purchasers the best satisfaction.
We have permission from the leading
BICYCLE AND TRICYCLE RIDERS
OF THE COLONY to refer inquirers
as to the merits of our machines to
them, and we shall take pleasure in
doing this whenever requested, as their
good recommendation has already sold
tor us a number of machines. Expe-
rienced Machinists inspect and adjust
every machine.
THE IMPERfAL CLUB.
THE AUSTRALIAN CLUB.
SPECIAL, AGENCY : THE CHEYLESMORE CLUB.
Janes Marti: Si Con;;.,
389 George Street, opposite
Royal Hotel.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
'raPvrßE Royal, “Jo” Vide p. 10.
Opera House. “Mantcaux Noirs ” ib.
For a week, as each one knows,
Not a single
Little jingle
Have we written for the “ Shows.”
But the fact is si -ply this—
Please be heeding—
We’ve been reading
Spicer upon Gtnesis.
And to that—more cause who wants ?
Add this thing, too.
Studying, too.
The Anatomy of Ants.
And, though angry, dear perfesh—
In respect of
Our neglect of
Your affairs—pray, what was fresh ?
So, let us be friends wl h you—
Don’t be hitter,
We will glitter
When you give us something new!
A correspondent asked ns, the other day,
whv we don’t think of writing: the “ Shows ” in a
new style. To which we reply that we won’t until
we think of walking on our hands. And so we
start on our feet in the old fashion.
♦ * # *
At the Gaiety—Gloom.
* * * *
With a flying pen. The minute hand of
the clock is at our mental heels. It is midnight
again. It always does seem to be midnight now
when we are writing. This is because we are not
philosophers. If we were—as the world goes—we
should not be writing at midnight, for we should
not be writing at all. But we are not: we are
merely vain creatures who—but let us rattle it out
in breezy rhyme. So—
You think we write for glory,
You think we write for gain.
Or p’raps because we’re vain;
That you don’t know our story
To us is pretty plain.
Now for a rhyme we’re stuck—
We write—well, just for luck,
And because the grocer’s “ struck,”
Also to pay our rent—
P’raps you the cause don't care to know;
And if you did—it may be so—
You wouldn't care a cent.
* * * *
Now that we have, in, for us, unusually
halting verse, given you our sordid reasons for
writing, we shall go on to say that we are informed
“Jo” is still being played at the Theatre Royal.
This is a glory «nd a loveliness which convinces us
that Mr. Jnhn Keats—a young man who once wrote
verse, dear readers, and was very properly killed
by a reviewer for doing it—was as wrong as poets
usually are, when he said these things had passed
away. They have not passed away: not bya Jugful
—this jugful. Let the gay gohanno sing. We would
be merry though the world should end to-morrow.
And, speaking of the world ending to-morrow,
that is a show we should like to criticise, if you
like. But we are digressive and dismal. Let’s see
—what was it that we wanted to say about "Jo?"
Of couise—“ Jo ” is still joing on, and, coveted
with the confusion of this joke, wo jo off.
* * * *
But when we come to speak of the Opera
House we are at home. Which we certainly are,
and that’s why all wo can say of it is that “Man-
teaux Noirs” is going to be a success—when we go
to see it, which, (we always like to write in periods),
we shall certainly do as soon as we can recover
from the mental gloom we were plunged into when
we received from the local parson the other day
the crushing information that we were going to
hell. It wasn’t the prospect of going to hell
crushed us; it was the thought of the number of
newspaper men we should meet there—also actors.
Wo have a ghastly suspicion that there are both
theatres and newspapers there. If there are, we
shall turn religious, and go to heaven just for
spite.
* * * *
See that our grave’s kept green. We are
withered. We have, up till now, been in the habit
of giving ourselves little airs and allowing our-
selves to be petted by little admirers because we
thought we were dramatic critics of a light and
airy order such as the world seldom sees. But how
have we fallen ? How have wo been tumbled from
our pedestal ? How have we been crushed ? And
the blow has come from such a quarter, too—
Hoekhampton, of all places next to but let us be
calm. There is, up there—we say it though it
pricks our pride to the core—a young man who
can just curt up anything we have ever seen in the
way of dramatic critics. The Montague-Turner
company were fortunate enough to arrive there
before he left for a larger sphere, and, we are in-
formed, that, since he noticed them, the noses of
the ladies of the company have become perma-
nently turned up with pride, and the male mem-
bers will not now condescend to drink with any-
body under the rank of pound-keeper. The critic
has used up all the superlatives in the language in
describing Miss Montague’s singing. This is the
true test of style. Give us a writer who
is not niggardly of his adjectives, but throws
them together three at a time with a roval
hand. But, on second thoughts, give him
to somebody else. We might kill him—out of
jealousy, of course. But though wo are crushed
critically, we have still enough stamina left to say
that the Montague-Turner company have made a
success in Queensland. For which we a beg their
permission to be glad. And, before concluding, wo
may say that the papo. 1 s up there attribute a good
deal of the success to the clever conductorship of
Mr. Delaney, whose musical abilities, though they
may only guess at in total, they at least are sensible
enough to appreciate in detail. And now let us
hurry along, Vecause we are dying to say some-
thing about Jack Scantlebury’s Joyeuses.
* * « »
Joyeuses. We should smile. This is a gay
old trench term, which suits Jack’s hilarious com-
pany to perfection. Let us try to remember when
we saw them last. Yea, ot course: it was at
Parramatta. We went there and saw the town,
and then we saw the local editors, and then
the local thea re, and then we
saw Boccaccio’’ played by Jack’s company, and
tnen we came home, expecting to die on the way
but we didn’t, a circumstance which leaves us only
9 ne c pnclusion—that we are immortal. But, in-
deed, the show went off very well, though anyone
unacquainted with our volatile nature, might
suppose from the way we speak that it didn’t. To
come to business, however,—which, by the way.
Jack s company seem to have done to that colossal
extent which alone satisfies your large speculator
, company is now in the Northern districts and
the noble farmer or squatter or kitchen
gardener, or whatever he is that infests these
• This could not fail to be the case when
... us the Gunnodah paper says, “ made a
uigmtied Sir Joseph Porter.” when we read this,
we went out and lay down in the backyard while
+iT. r wc 'Ou-merchant who is not yet pensive
th« ew . of;ks over the fence. We hoped one of
nem might hit us, and so save us from suicide.
ho v-i no )T’ satirical reader, we leave you a show for
that we have wood enough in our heads
S ou v ( ° okin g for more. If you do, and your
ln akes you laugh, we shall laugh, too. It will
save us from writing anything further.
• • •
Hardly though, when we come across a
in a country contemporary, stating that
"UPPy Hours Company are now playing
„, ta ®Vkh the Southern districts. At least when we
me Southern districts we do so at hazard—at
which we have done a good deal before now, we
may say parenthetically. Where is Gundagai, by
the way ? Gut this is of no consequence. They
wore there, and had to wait till the local piano was
tuned before they could give their entertainment.
Touching piano-tuning, we remember a piano-
tuner who once went through the country on
speculation. Ho came to a station in the back-
blocks, and interviewed the proprietor, whom he
informed of his business. The squatter looked at
him dubiously fora moment, and then said: “Well,
young fellow, I don’t know that I’ve got anything
just in your way now, unless you can mend that
cattle-trough.” Anyhow, the Hart Company have
been getting on very well in the country, and out
of respect to the country—which we hope to be
able to see sometime before we go to meet her In
the hollow vale—we will say that this is a proof of
some considerable claims to what we just now
forget, but a lot of things, anyhow. And this
brings us to D’Orsay Ogden, whom we can never
forgot. On second thoughts, we don’t think wo
can do justice to the subject under a paragraph.
** ♦ *
Flash, feathered pen of ours, along the
virgin page, for now you have to tell of the doings
of dainty people who are not of the common clay
of the stage. But. come to consider it, don’t flash
—lt is not in accordance with aristocratic simplicity
so to do—but just glide along and recount that Mr.
D’Orsay Ogden—whom the saints preserve I-was
playing in Mudgeelast time we heard of him. And,
dropping figure altogether, we shall say that we
are heartily glad to hear that he played to some
account—we mean, some bank-account.
** * *
Breaking off suddenly from the strain of
our remarks, we will say that the humour of
country papers generally convulses us; but that of
the Bega Blunderer, or whatever it is, throws all
other rustic humour In the shade. When Jimmy
South was playing- there lately, there was some
hitch about the arrang-ement of the School of
Arts. The facetious organ we refer to commented
or ) this in a scathing paragraph, which wound up
with the crusher: “Bahl Go to work; do some-
thing, gentlemen of the committee, or retire into
private life and let bolder men take your places.”
Asking a member of the Bega School of Arts to
retire into private life is like asking a snail to get
into a periwinkle-shell.
•* m •
The musical critic of the S.A. Register
believes that none of the other women can sing as
well as Kate Thayer. Being her husband, he ought
to know; but it’s slightly hard on the other women.
» * *
Polks finished Saturday, 30th June, at the
Theatre Rpyai; Adelaide—“Sam’l,” and “Lend Me
Five Shillings. Polk’s Mr. Golightly Is. writes
our local correspondent, a clever, laughable per-
sonation, and deserving of more jam than even
The Bulletin will give him when he plays the
£ r F e J n s y dne y- “Royal Middy,” with Emelie
Melville, next.
On Saturday last, the first of the inter-
colonial Football matches was played upon the
Association Cricket Ground, between South Mel-
bourne and Sydney Clubs, and after a close game,
the visitors scored a win by six goals, 10 behinds,
t° 5 17 behinds. The Balmain-University
and Walleroo-Redfern matches both resulted in a
draw, and at St. Leonards the local team beat
Burwood ty 8 points to nil. It is rumoured that
the latter club will disband shortly, in consequence
of the difficulty in getting a fifteen together.
VANITY FAIR.
May Heaven bless the Duke of Argyll!
Sixteen couples came up in Highland costume to
a ball given by the Prussian Guard. There were
some doubts about their coming up to “scratch,”
Jay Gould once wrote a dedication to a young
ladies’ album, and here arc some of its scintillating
gems: “ Some men think they ought not to show
themselves so weak as to be moved bv any of the
finer feelings that actuate the human bosom, lest
its congenial and captivating influence should per-
vert them. Man, according to them, ought to
mingle in business, to become absorbed in aggran-
disement and worldly gain, leaving the cultivation
of friendship to wither and die. I trust that their
contaminating influence will never disturb the
harmonious union of that constellation of bright
stars who shall send forth the effulgent rays of
friendship from the successive pages of this ladies’
album; their seared consciences are deadened to all
the finer feelings and insensible to the happy in-
fluences of friendship; to them virtue is but an
echo and moral worth an apology.” As one might
expect from any production of Gould's, there’s a
smart “ring” about it....“ Barely” true—The
naked truth—Judge: “ Whatl cannot understand
is how you could kill a man with a single blow.”
Culprit: “Shall I show you how?” How to
manage a wife. Manage without Cook: “Yes,
I giv notice at wunst. I could’t stop in a place
where the master and u issus was off their chumps
Wot d’ye think they done ? Why they actually put
their plates -plates as was meant to eat off of—into
black velvet frames, and 'ung ’em up on the wails
in their drawring-room—there!”....Extract from
a love letter:—“Dearest love, I have swallowed
the postage stamp which was on your letter, os I
knew that your darling lips had touched it.”..
Henry Ward B echer says: “If you want to look
for heroea in our day you must g» down to the
kitchen.” You must also so down there if you
want to look for policemen after nine o’clock p.m.
The late royal edict “No lamb on table” waa
looked upon as a lamb on table mistake Wet
evening. Reginald (who with a friend is calling- on
two young- ladles), languidly: “ Nice weather for
geese.” Pair charmer: “ That is why they are out,
I suppose.” From the Brisbane Courier:—
Birth: “The Wife of K. J. Kelly, Secretary and
Accountant, Government Hydraulic Engineer's
Department, this morning at 2 a.m., of a daughter.
Both doing well under the very efficient care of
Dr. Edward O’Doherty.” A clergyman says
pankiug children should be done coolly, quietly,
vigorously, and with the aim to let the lesson sink
deep into their hearts. The rev. gent emen betrays
«n ignorance of anatomy that is deplorable. From
a London paper: “ A widow lady would be glad to
hear of a schoolmaster, of the old school, in Lon-
don, who would undertake to punish her son, a boy
of seventeen, who, though docile, is excessively
idle and careless, and she would in return be will-
ing to offer him any reasonable compensation. Ad-
dress, stating terms, and when the boy ma b
sent to him.” The widow omitted the most impor-
tant particular—namely, the height and i ghtlng
weight of her refractox-y offspring The Zouave
Jacob, who is making thousands a year by curing
the sick in Paris, puts it thus:—" Why are you ill?”
Because you eat too many good things. Eat dry
bread and vegetables especially. You drink wl e.
It is poison. Do as I do, and drink water. Go to
bed early. I am neither a doctor . or a sorcerer.”
... .A coloured boy, 18 years of age, born of slave
parents near Grenada, on the Mississippi River, has
(records a lively American liar) from the shoulders
down, skin just like that of an alligator. It is
thickly covered with black scales, and the whole is
as pliable, though thick and tough, as the hide of
these animals. Boys who attend schools where the
birch is still an institution will envy that coloured
youth.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Louise Michel has just sent to M. Lisbonne,
the lessee of the Bouffes-du-Nord, a manuscript
play, which she has written in prison.
Miss Howard, an American woman, is
meeting with great success as doctor in North
China. Some time ago she attended the mother of
U Hung Chang, the great Viceroy, and now she is
treating his wite. She is said to have a great num-
ber of applications for assistance and advice from
the women of wealthy families, “ who would die
rather than be treated by a foreign male physi-
cian. It looks as if the various countries of the
hast ottered an almost inexhaustible Held tor
women possessing medical knowledge and skill.
When one of the daughters of the match-
making Duchess of Gordon eloped, it became
necessary to apprise her mother of the fact. Her
daughter had run away with a young lord with
whom she had been dancing at a ball given by the
Duke of Devonshire. “Oh, heaven!" cried the
poor mother; “on such a cold night, too. and
without her flannel petticoat! And to think that
it is all my fault, because I wanted to set off the
delicacy of her shape to catch the Duke of Bed-
ford.”
Really, the way in which ladies use slang
now-a-days is stupendous. Lately, during very
sloppy weather, a lady slipped off the pavement
into the gutter. She is one of the established
euders of Australian society, and moves in the
huppah suckles” entirely. When she fell into
the gutter, a young masculine new chum rushed
forward and assisted her to rise. “ I trust you are
not hurt,” said ho. “ No,” she returned, extremely
incensed at Ler ridiculous position; “ I’m not hurt,
but linin a blasted mess!’' This did not happen
at isydney—it happened at—but never mind! It’s
true, anyhow.
Mrs. Eliza Clark, the wife of a Northern
hotelkeeper, appropriated all the ready money
possessed by her hnsband and brother, and eloped
to Brisbane with a labourer named Robert Foun-
tain. Mrs. Clark is allege-1 to have stolen a large
sum of money, but only £43 was found in the
possession of herself and Fountain when arrested,
fountain has “ coveted his neighbour’s w ! f'e” more
than once; for, when employed on the construction
ol the Maryborough bridge some years age, he
was guib y of a similar broach of the tenth com-
mandment When the present case came before
the Court, the prosecutor did not wish to proceed,
but the police obtained an adjournment with a
view to going on.
They do these things better in America—
we mean hanging. On the 30th March, Mrs. Bmelino
Meaker was executed for having poisoned a little
girl-her husband’s half-sister. She was hanged in
the afternoon, having personally superintended
the erection of the gallows during the morning.
Protes log her innocence to the last, she had a
hearty dinner of tilpe and mashed turnips, and
then took the sheriff’s arm to the gallows. It is
when wo think how comfortable and pleasant
everything was made for this poor woman, that
we realise the fact of how far we in Australia are
behind the times. Up to the supreme moment,
she ate and slept well, and talked with great vigour.
The latter characteristic is sometimes found in
females who are not going to be hanged. Her son,
who participated in the crime, was also sentenced
to death, but begged off some way, and promised
to load a Christian life In prison. He also promised
to put in ten hours a day at stone-breaking, and
the authorities deputed two murderous-looking
warders to sec that he kept his word.
Lillian Russell is one of the most beautiful
actresses in the world, and is called the Queen of
of the Dudes. But she Is not a Vestal. Indeed un-
less Flaneur has made some mistake, this famous
beauty is of almost eggshell frailty. Here is his
little fairy tale:—"Last Saturday, every dude in
New York who could command a dollar and a-half
went to see Lillian Russell in the ‘ Princess of
Trebizonde.’ Lillian played the Prince, and ap-
peared in five different costumes, each one prettier
than the last. She has a beautiful figure, and the
clinging tenacity of her garments seemed to show
it off to the entire satisfaction of the men In the
audience. This is saying a good deal. I never
realised before what a really perfect figure Miss
Russell has. Her ankle is Just a shade thick, but
the foot is small and exquisite, while the leg is—
hem I—just right. The keenest analysis could dis-
cover nothing but perfection in her pose and
movements. It is no wonder that New York has
been crazy over this woman for a year. Langtry
and Thdo are miles behind her in point of physical
beauty. The most charming thing about Miss
Russell’s performance the other night was her
thoroughly modest demeanour. It was almost an
exact counterpart of what one would naturally
expect from her career. But it seems to be a rule
with women on the stage; their private life is con-
tinually the opposite of what they are on the
boards. It is rather odd in Miss Russell’s ease.
Her most enthumist'c admirer can never claim
that she has erred/on the side of morality. Her es-
capades had been‘wild and reckless from the start;
her lovers numerous, and drawn from the most
dissipated circle in New York, and her present re-
lations with a certain gentleman are, to say the
least, peculiar. But on the stage, and in the attire
of the young Prince, she was the personification of
modesty and maidenly innocence.” Heighol
• •
A curious suit in Melbourne for divorce
from a Chinaman. A Tasmanian girl not only was
foolish enough to marry Mr. Ah Nong, but handed
him £5OO of her money, to open up trade with China.
He left to do it, but ha£ forgotten to return. So
Mrs. Ah Nong seeks separation... .At Bathurst,
Selina Hermitage sued her husband, Bigley of that
ilk, for desertion. Complainant failed to appear.
The parties, explained defendant’s solicitor, were
married two years ago. Selina was then 18 and
Bigley 75. They lived together for a year; then
she cleared to Dubbo. Oh, and we see in the
papers that “ a Mahoramedan in India, who is 80
years old, has just paid 30,000 rupees tor the hand
of a girl of 11, and the marriage will soon take
place.” Of Miss Chamberlain, the young Ameri-
can lady whose beauty has been so much admired
by the Prince of Wales, a newspaper correspondent
writes: “I found her a very lovely girl, simple,
natural, and unaffected, and apparently not in the
least spoiled by the attention and adulation she
has received. Tall and slender, with brilliant dark
eyes, delicate features, and an extremely graceful
carnage, she is very much in the same style as the
Princess of Wales, though there is no actual per-
sonal resemblance.”
Dyspepsia, billiousness, nervousness, and
miserablcness all cured with Hop Bitters. See,
A LEAVE-TAKING.
She will not smile;
She will not sir;
I marvel while
I look at her.
The lips are chilly
And will not speak;
The ghost of a lily
In either cheek.
Her hair—ah me I
Her hair—her hair!
How helplessly
My hands go there!
But my caresses
Meet not hers,
That thread my tears!
I kiss the eyes
On either lid,
Where her love lies
For ever hid.
I cease my weeping l
And smile and say
I will be sleeping
Thus, some day!
A NEW GUINEA DUEL.


PEPPER AND SALT.
When one is weary and tired, and the
world appears as hollow as a policeman’s skull,
there Is only one thing that will brighten up the
drooping spirits. And that is a fire—a real, earnest
' town fire. There are, first, the firemen, dancing
■ about like howling dtervishes. Then there is the
' crowd that always gathers to look on and encou-
rage the firemen by yelling enthusiastically all the
time. In this crowd there are certain characters
which are never congregated together anywhere
but at a lire. There is, for instance, the man who
first seed it.” He is usually about 42 in number,
and he always begins with “ I was a standin’ jist
at the fur corner of the block, when I sees a heap
o’ smoke cornin’ out o’ the winders of the fust
floor. Says I, hello, this is a fire. Then I runs
down,” &c. Then there is the man with the axe,
who batters down the door. Nothing but smash-
ing the house up will save it, in his opinion. He
knows all about it. You can’t tell him anything
about how to deal with a fire. This man, when he
is not giving orders, or stopping for a minute to
heave a piano overboard, stalks about with the
axe stuck in the back of his belt, which adds
greatly to his ferocious appearance. Besides him,
there is the man whose soul pants for a ladder.
“ For God’s sake where is there a ladderl” “ Ain’t
any of you got a ladder ?” (in your vest pocket).
He generally falls down a grating, and injures his
knees. And then, again, there is the man who
knows all about the insurance. He usually ave-
rages about 33 per cent, of the crowd. The
relations of the owner of the house on
fire make up a respectable contingent. At
the fire at Cole's, the Sydney bookseller’s, the other
day, it was reckoned by a person present
that five brothers-in-law, fourteen uncles, ninety-
two nephews, and one hundred and fifty-three
cousins of Mr. Cole were in attendance. There
was one man who wanted to pass himself off as
Mr. Cole’s grandfather, but the crowd bonneted
him before he could prove his relationship. An-
other man gained a momentary fame and several
drinks on account of having once met Mr. Cole in
an omnibus. The accident reporter is, of course,
on the scene when any respectable fire takes place,
and he is sober enough to find his way to it. Then
there is the man who carries up the bight of the
hose. He invariably gets capsized by the coils,
which is the cause of intense amusement to the
crowd. Finally, the energetic policeman is there,
alternately culling small boys and surveying the
fire with a look of grand and gloomy gravity. Who
will say, after all this, that there is no fun at a
fire ?
Never wear diamonds to show you’re rich.
Even if you thus prove your affluence, you also
prove yourself a cad. There are at least two men
in Sydney who used to be conspicuous for their
diamonds. Now they are conspicuously incon-
spicuous, because they have no diamonds. They
have “left off wearing them,” you know. They
have left off wearing clean shirts also. They have
not left off wearing red noses. The diamonds were
not in keeping with these individuals. The un-
washed linen and carbunculous probosces are.
And yet Shakespeare said that “ the toad, ugly and
venomous, has still a precious jewel in its head.”
The divine William had never seen these people in
a bar.
• • •
A married lady went out shopping in Mel-
bourne. There is nothing odd in this. Married
ladies, and single ones, for the matter of that, have
gone shopping in Melbourne for many years, and,
it is safe to say, will continue to do so as long as
there are husbands and fathers to find the “greed.”
But this lady went out and did not return. Even
this has happened before now. What makes the
present case just a little, not too much, out of the
common, is that a person who is not her husband
went shopping in the same street about the same
time, and—it is here the mystery really commences
—also forgot to return. Now, the most superficial
observer of human nature, just as well as the
painfully suspicious person whose name has ap-
peared for thirty years on the books of “ Scotland
Yard,” would say at once, “ Where you'll And one
you’ll find t’other.” They are wrong. W e are not
sorry Lfor it—to think they are wrong. It is not
displeasing to us matter-of-fact folk to know that
those wonderful experts in “ the forces that con-
trol human action”—who can analyse motives like
those disagreeable people in Poe’s tales, who sum
up the most insignificant episodes in a man’s career
by hearing him speak, or looking at the freckles
on his chin—are occasionally at fault—quite off the
track—barking up the wreng eucalyptus, in fact.
The gentleman was subsequently found in bed—
his proper place—with his wife—his proper partner.
The lady was afterwards discovered in her chamber
—her best—with her husband—her best companion.
All the prurient penny-a-line romance, the love-
letters, divorce proceedings, moralisings on the
frailties of our fallen nature and the curse attend-
ing addiction to alcohol, are turned inside out by
this unfortunate discovery.
• m
Everyone has heard the story of the Bishop
of somewhere who had a terrible fear that he
would soon be stricken with paralysis, and so lived
in the shadow of death. Well, one evening he was
out at a card-party, and feeling rather queer, put
his hand under the table and pinched his leg in
order to see whether there was any feeling in it.
He pinched hard, but there was no pain. “O,
Haeven!” he faintly exclaimed; “it has come at
last I This, then, is death.” But he revived when
he found that he had been pinching, not his own leg,
but that of a very pretty girl alongside him. such a
discovery would have killed instead of curing any
other man. Well, all this is brought to mind by
the fact that the other night a man in a Bligh-
street boarding house rushed into his neighb ur’s
room and screamed that there was a dead man in
his bed. “What have you been drinking?” enquired
the neighbour aforesaid, who wasn v t a nervous
man. “I tell you there’s a dead man in my bed. I
felt him beside me. I touched him, and he was
cold, C-o-o-o-m-e and see,” almost breathlessly
yelled the affrighted one. A light was struck and
they “went and saw.” The dead man’sbedmate
had been—lying on his own arm.
• •
In the hospital of a country township, a
mangled youth lies silent in his bunk. His thin
parted lips are parched with pain, his nose of the
synagogue and all-agog style, and his massive brow
white, like the face of a tombstone. Only there is
no sacred to the memory on it; his only memory is
not very sacred. In the house whereat he lodged,
there was a large dog. And the dog was at large.
It howled all night, except when it was engaged
killing stray fowls, or biting the boarders’ legs.
Our hero undertook to shoot him. With a calm
smile, he raised the gun and sighted the dog. And
the dog sighted him. There was a report and a
loud yell—from the hero. His companions bore
him in; and now a mangled youth :ies silent in his
bunk. The large dog is still around.
At a certain Southern township there is
everything but a church, so when a priest or par-
son comes, service is held in the back parts of a
rum mill. It is good of the proprietor to thus meet
the spirituous wants of the community: it is like-
wise profitable, as every man, woman, boy, or lap-
dog, is expected to shout at the bar on entering
and retiring from “divine worship.” Sunday, >ou
say ? Oh 1 that doesn’t matter, i he place is under
special license. A week < >r two back, a band of the
talent visited the township, a notorious gambler
and bully amongst them, who wanted to wipe the
streets with some of the inhabitants. When the
thing had got to be worse than a wild beast show,
a stranger quietly stept out and offered to accomo-
date him, when a policeman at once “jugged” the
stranger, and invited the “broker” into the bar
parlour to drink. There’s three times as much
drink sold there after, as during proper hours; and
ten times as much on Sunday as during the whole
week. And when the gambling spielers came,
they could knock down anyone they wanted, and
if he objected to being knocked down, he’d be at
once taken up. The place is under special license.
* * *
Richard Thomas lives near Geelong (Vie.)
Richard appears to have a number of accomplish-
ments, but, of all others, “ tin-kettllng ” is the one
he seems to have attained the greatest perfection
in. It is his boast that with an ordinary kettle or
kerosene-tin and a small junk of firewood he can
produce sufficient exasperation in a neighbour-
hood to seriously lessen the value of house pro-
perty. He is now in the Geelong Infirmary with
close on a pound and a-half of swan-shot between
his legs and the small of his back. It was all along
of following his profession. Two persons—a man
and a woman—were married at Lara, near Geelong.
Richard had observed this couple keeping company
for a long time, and, being a sharp lad, guessed
what the end would be. He was prepared for it.
His sticks were seasoned and his kettles were of
maddening dissonance. But he forgot all about
the bride’s father, a man named Curbett. Of
course he never thought he would have to deal
with friends of the family. He thought it was a
case of “ principals only dealt with.” He has now
changed nis opinions. The first bewildering roll
on Richard’s kettle brought out old Curbett from
next door with a double-barrelled, breech-loading,
swivel, duck-gun on trestles. Then the boy got a
long way off, out of range, as he thought, and
made some highly personal allusions to Mr. Cur-
bett’s dress, eyes, and general ensemble. Why pro-
ceed ? Poor Dick was seen five minutes afterwards
on a shutter being slowly conveyed to the hospital.
“ In the midst of life we are in death.” Amen.
* * *
A man in England lately received a testi-
monial for having taken 2000 baths in five and a half
years. Here, a man has only to subscribe some-
thing 1 to the church fund, then say that he is about
to leave the town, and a deputation will immedi-
ately wait on him and present him with a Bible
and an illuminated address, expressive of their
esteem for his having washed the back of his neck
once in two years. This is the country to live in,
if vou like.
Par Western Photographs.
RAISING THE REWARD TO TEN PER CENT.
She is a close-fisted widow, no doubt of it. That
hollow in the palm of her hand could hold safely
half the money in the National Bank. She has
been in business this last twenty years, and she
tells a tale of secure investments and fixed deposits
which makes squatters stare. They ail believe
her, and they have a reason for the faith that is in
them, for If there is any tempting thing going at a
sacrifice within a radius of fifty miles the hammer
knocks it down to the widow.
The money goes naturally from the hollow of her
hand into a very capacious purse. This purse is
just about as safe as her hand. It is long and
narrow, and has been in use for years, but has
never disa ‘pointed the confidence reposed in its
Integrity. The purse’s allotted station in life i 8
in the right pocket of the widow’s dress. Out of
that it would come to be gorged; into that it would
descend to sleep such a sleep as an often-fed purse
can. But there is a weak point in the best armour,
a withered flower in he best garden, a silly tongue
in the best Parliament, and a troubled line in the
best verse. In the economy of the widow’s be-
ongings, the weak point was her pocket.
An unusual harvest of gain had come in after
banking hours. Hand trusted purse, purse trusted
pocket, and in the cool of the twilight she walked
our. for the refreshing breeze of the downs. When
she returned she found, instead of the purse, a
hole in her pocket.
The next day an advertisement appeared in the
ocai pa ;er, offering one per cent, for its recovery.
In the course of the day three men, evidently
hones,, but evidently nursing l some abstruse cal-
culation, came up to the door.
Jim Snooks said he would go in first. The other
two looked on.
“ See here, ma’am,” he began, “ I just came on
the spot by accident. After dinner yesterday even-
ing I thought I would have a stroll. The air was
balmy, as you may remember, and darkness was
creeping up from the Bast with muffled feet. I
was looking at Venus, who was just peeping out
at the elbow of the one-horned moon. My foot
struck something—l looked down—when lo! ”
“ My purse!” cried the widow.
“Not at all,” said Jim, “but this piece of brick.”
As Jim sidled to the door and put his shoulder to
the post, Horace Walpole advanced to the counter.
“See here, ma’am,” he began, “I just came on
the spot by accident. After dinner yesterday
evening I thought I would have a stroll. The air
was balmy, as you may remember, and darkness
was creeping up from the east with muffled feet.
I was looking at Venus, who was just peeping out
at the elbow of the one-horned moon. My foot
struck something. I looked down—when lo 1”
“ Is it my purse ?” asked the widow, reddening.
“Not at all,” replied Horace; “it was this old
piece of waterbag.”
Horace sidled to the door and put his shoulder to
the other post. Then Xenophon Murphy walked
to the counter.
“ See here, ma’am,” he began, “ I just came on
the spot by accident. After dinner yesterday
evening I thought I would have a stroll. The air
was ”
“ Get out of my shop!” cried the widow.
“The air was balmy, as you may remember, and
darkness —” ,
“Clear out, balmy air, darkness, and 'ill 1” cried
the widow. “ I saw you making up the game with
those men at the door.”
“ Pray listen, ma’am. And darkness was creep-
ing up from the east with muffled ”
“Leave me alone!” cried the widow, “andget
out of my shop. Take your water-bags and bricks,
and whatever else you struck your toes against,
and leave me alone I ” “ Feet.” continued Xeno-
phon. “ I was looking at Venus, who was peeping
out at the elbow of the one-horned ”
“ Keep it,” cried the enranged widow. “ I don’t
want it whatever it was.” “Moon," continued
Xenophon. “My foot struck something ”
“I don’t want it,” cried the widow. “I looked
down—when lo! —” “Clear out!” cried the
widow, “ and take it with you.”
“ No,” said Xenophon Murphy, “ it’s not a piece
of hoop-iron. It’s your purse. But look here,
ma’am, I have witnesses to your statement that
you don’t want it, and that I can take it with me.
I am, however, honest. 1 will be generous to the
widow, but i claim 10 per cent, for salvage, and as
it is mine yet, I will help myself to the equivalents
before I hand it over. By-bye I ”
BRIEF MENTION.
“ Under a Spell ” —John Davies.
The key to man’s origin—Mon-key.
A stern reality—A back view of the Hou.
John, M.L.A.
Epigram ( by John Davies: A near thing—
that far-th ng.
When they want you to “ clear out ” on the
Wart-ego, they tell you to “ Peter Campbell.”
John Davies was at the American ball. We
hope the States won’t regard the circumstance as
a casus belli.
A sufferer by a recent city fire allots his
damage thus: “Fire £SO, water £400.” Remarks:
Fire-men—tire-water. Gall I
In a Far Western town they don’t mark
cheques for which no provision has been made,
“N.S.F.” They mark them “N.8.F.”: No (adjec-
tive) Fear.
Fifteen letters is to be the maximum of
each word sent on our telegraph lines in future.
David Buchanan's denunciatory adjectives can
now come through on a moderate expenditure.
We’re glad to notice that crinolines have a
chance of coming in shortly. We hope also to see
a pegtop revival. This will enable Sydney Punch
to use up some of its fossilised woodcuts as fashion-
plates.
On a public occasion, the other evening, a
certain eminent (ahem!) politician is alleged by a
Sydney print to have “ received an ovation."
Let's see! Ovation— ovum, an egg. A bad egg,
probably.
Up North a well-known shantykeeper has
only rum and gin in stock But when you ask him
for brandy he is equal to the occasion. He turns
his back to you, and puts in your glass a little rum
and a little gin.
Wanted, an enactment to regulate street
tralfic, in the interests of the general public, as
against rampaging 'bus-drivers, or excited Harmiea
on the march, or puffed-up Orangemen on the
procession, or any other dodgasted nuisance.
Gamier, a Frenchman, has been sentenced
to death at Madrid for murdering an English gover-
ness, Miss Bentley. He has appealed. Thinks it
strange a French gentleman can t kill an English-
woman in Spain without a fuss being made about
it.
The editors of the Beg a Bun and Milton
Muffin having each been to a local picnic, vie
with each other in their praises of the sponge-
cakes handed round there. We should smile.
Sponge-cakes are the best absorbents of liquor we
know.
There is plenty of white slaveryjin Sydney.
There are wholesale drapers at this moment who
keep white slaves working 13 to 14 hours, day after
day, and no extra pay. Those who get the princely
sum of one and six for tea-money are lucky. They
are not struggling firms who do this, but some of
the richest in the trade.
They are talking of giving women voting
power up in Queensland. Politicians up there
nave taken to wearing white shirts, and cleaning
their teeth twice a week since the idea was started.
It will be now the best-looking candidate who will
win an election. We had a good mind to—but no;
our new set of teeth is not quite made yet.
A certain Sydney firm who are pretty holy
go in for banging up Bible texts and moral and
business maxims round their office. For instance,
you see outside one compartment of the counting-
house “ Glory—Hallelujah ”in red and gold. Fur-
ther on “ Never put off till to-morrow that which
can be done to-day,” and next door (here is the
joke at last) “ Bills only paid on Tuesdays.”
It was very sluggishly done in the Wab-
renqa Banner. Such advertisements as “ Vote
for Codlin and Short” and “ Jobs neatlv executed”
have been sometimes run together in the election
excitement of a country office. But such an an-
nouncement as “ Orangemen, Orangemen, Orange-
men, vote for Gustave Schencke!” is wildly im-
pressive when dove-tailed into “ A New Wind
Instrument!” O Schencke, how shall we stand
thee ?
In days of yore, the motto of the S. M.
Herald was:
“In moderation placing all my glory,
The Tories call me Whig and Whigs a Tory.”
Later on, the Herald struck out the foregoing
from above its leader and substituted: “Sworn to
no master, of no sect am I.” Of late years the
paper has had no motto. We know i s motto,
though. But worlds wouldn't induce us to say
what it is.
Temperance Hall announcement: “ One
hundred and fifty enrolled last week. Hallelujah!"
How manufactured:—First Larrikin: “Say, Bob.
what if we go in and put down our names :’
Second L.: “Blowed if there’s any fun in it.”
Third L.: “We’ve used up all the names we can
think of. There’s more Smiths in that book than
m the colony.” First L.: “ Oh. come along. It'll
make old Spare Jaws bless the Lord!” They go.
Three more saved. Jaheloohal
“Well, Miss Paget,” said a Croesus of the
Backblocks to the newly-arrived nursery gover-
ness, “ you are only a short time out in the colony.
Are you anything to Paget of Paget Hall in York-
shire! ” “There is, sir, a relationship between us,
but it is a very distant one,” “ Ah, no matter. So
I thought: that is why I chose you. lam glad I
took you. You see, he took away my wife, and
won’t give her up. I’ll not trouble about her now.
Tell me what you want to make you comfortable.”
The Queen made John Brown an Esquire
for saving her from the attack of Connor at Buck-
ingham Palace. He probably saved her life. But
we have always been desirous of knowing who
made Esquires of Sydney milkmen and bakers.
It cannot be for saving life, anyway. In a place
where typhoid is l arried round with the milk, and
plugs of chewed tobacco are found in loaves of
bread, the “ life-saving ” hypothesis must be aban-
doned. Nexi to seeing the loaf itself, the best
thing would be to see the person who was con-
siderate enough to chew the tob cco before putting
it in the dough.
Henry Halloran makes the Yankees say.
inter alia
“ The years waft us on to that future sublime—
When one half of the civilized world shall be ours;
Of which heaven now is engendering the time, t>
In the marvellous march of the vanishing hours.
As the poetical C.M.G. evidently means it to he
inferred that the other half of the civilized world
shall be the Imperial Britisher’s, ’tis a precious bad
look out for the Celtic, Slavonic, and other non-
English-speaking races, i.e., on the supposition
that, in Henry’s case, “ poet and prophet ” are the
same.
A LEGEND OF THE CAMERA.
“ Sit you down here by the beach awhile,”
Unto us said the ancient man,
‘‘And the story I’ll tell you will make you smile,”
If ever a story can.
So we sat down where the sand was brown,
And we gazed at the grey-green sea;
And then he began, that ancient man,
The following history.
“ 1 can see it now, s r, as plain as plain—
I was young then, and I could drink
A gallon of beer at a single drain,
And never as much as wink.
“ Ah, them was times!—but we’ll let that pass;
You see the tower up there ?
Well, if you go up and look in the glass.
You can see round everywhere.”
Just here, as we don’t want a page to fill
With the old man’s wandering speech,
We will say that the tower is built on a hill.
That looks down on Manly Beach;
And also that any whose friends had gone
Astray in the crowd, could climb
To the tower—and this you could bet upon,
Discover them every time.
Though we, we may say in parenthesis.
Would never have gone so far—
If a friend we ever had chanced to miss,
We’d have searched in the nearest bar.
The old man went on after a pause—
A giddy old man was he—
“ A wife—and a handsome woman she was
As ever you’d wish to see—
“ Got mislaid, or strayed, in the crowd, somehow,
From her spouse who was somewhat ‘ on; ’
An earthquake was foolishness to the row
He made, when he found her gone.
“ Till someone told him to try the tower.
And so to the tower he went;
I guess, dear sir, 'twas the worst half-hour
That ever that husband spent.
For sitting together upon a rock,
Were his wife and a Manly Beacher,
Whose conduct was such as would surely shock
Even a local preacher.
“ Between them, the ferocious husband saw
The luncheon basket was placed;
And the man held a pie in his dexter paw,
While his other was round her waist.
“ The husband sprang from the tower, and tore
Down the hill like a mountain flood;
And a terrible oath in his mind he swore,
He would have that man’s heart’s blood.”
“ Stop,” we exclaimed, “old man, we pray,
If this is a tale of gore,
And the husband the wretched man did slay,
So be it, we’ll hear no more.”
The old man smiled, a curious smile,
And said “ You’re a bit too fast;
’Twas the husband, and not the man of guile,
That on the rocks was cast.”
“Now tell us,” we said, “what dreadful end
Did befall than sinful elf ?”
“You can see for yourself,” he said, “my friend,
For I am the man myself!”
“ You call that a pretty girl! Ah ! you should have seen me at her age.”


Mr. Stephen Thompson is lecturing In Mel-
bourne on “ Egyptian Art.” The subject is attrac-
tive, but there is a far more interesting one lying
invitingly open for someone to tackle. It is that
of “Hebrew Art.” Unlike the Egyptian, which
was circumscribed, or ran in only one groove, the
art of the Hebrews has endless ramifications, from
making bricks without straw three thousand years
ago to “scooping” the pool or running a ‘stiff
’un ” at a colonial races. They are great at selling.
They sell soft goods, races, and one another, when
they get a show, although the latter is the stiffest
job they have to negotiate. Yes, there is a line
opening for someone who knows the subject.
Yes. Germany has them—the biggest
army, the biggest sausages, and the biggest feet in
the world—always barring Major Smith, of Bal-
larat, and long M'Kean, the Melbourne barrister.
To all these Berlin has now added the biggest
prison. When the Berliners, some time ago, pre-
sented Prince Bismarck with the liberty of the
city and a gold watch, a cynical Frenchman re-
marked that “the watch case would probably
contain all the liberty there was in Berlin.” Simi-
lar ill-natured remarks will probably be made
about this big building they have just finished.
It should be large enough to contain all the rascal-
dom of the Empire. A las I that the race between
civilization and houses of correction should be so
close. It’s close in Sydney. The new Berlin gaol
has only 733 separate Joells. Our principal gaol
often contains 800 prisoners.
Joseph M'Donald, who is up for trial on a
charge of horse-stealiniir. is . redited in the neigh-
bourhood of Nathalia (Vie.) with a rather clever
trick. A detective was once put on to watch
Joseph. Joseph was ostensibly a butcher, and he
ran a bullock into the killing-yard. With the aid
of a glass, the detective saw plainly the brand of
-m adjoining station. He let Joseph kill and skin
the animal, and then walked out from his ambush
and seized the culprit and the hide. “Tie up that
hide, me man; put it on yer shoulder, and come.”
The detective remembered afterwards that he
turned half-round to light his pipe while Joseph
was tying the rope. Next day in Court the evi-
dence was very straight. “ That’s the hide tied up
there, yer Worships. I saw him driving the baste,
killing and skinning it; he rouledit up fornlnt me,
;and I can swear to the brand with me own eyes.”
-The hide was unrolled, and it was found that a
piece the size of a hand was cut out just where the
brand should have been. That detective has not
smoked since.
At the dispensary attached to Sydney hos-
pital they have on view a city physician’s pre-
scription, in which no less than twenty-two in-
gredients are ordered in one mixture. No doctor
on earth could, after reading this most wonderful
prescription, say what was the intention of its
author. No medico on earth or in heaven, Sydney
Jones or Galen, Fortescue or Hippocrates, Morris
or Harvey, could possibly express the remotest
idea as to whether the good-natured Sawbones who
shoved twenty-two drugs into a poor devil all at
once meant to cause expansion or collapse, cata-
lepsy or hysterics, fatty degeneration or consump-
tion, water on the brain or gout in the big toe.
There they are, twenty-two of them—astringents
and laxatives, acids and alkalies, tonics and aperi-
ents, hypnotics and diuretics, combustibles and
incombustibles - all Jumbled up together, the Lord
only knows how. Did the chlorate of potash go
into the mortar before the sulphur, and did they
pour the fluoric acid into the bottle before the
bicarbonate of soda ? There are twenty-six letters
in the alphabet, and very few people know how
many billions of combinations one can make out
of them. Still, it i* possible to find the exact
number of combinations of which the alphabet is
susceptible. But this twenty-two drug doctor s
prescription can by Divine Providence alone be
considered in regard to its effect on what in all
probability is now but the cold clay of the “ drug-
gee.” Look here, doctor, if you had the collective
savee of all the saints and angels who have lived
in heaven since the year One, you d not be able to
say whether the tendency of that dose of yours
was towards the grave or towards making your
victim take up his bed and walk.
The smart colonial youth may even con-
trive to overreach a colonial Cabinet Minister. He
must be smart—very smart—to do it. though. - And
there is, perhaps, only one safe method. VVithou
further prelude, let facts explain the modus
arull— otherwise, as somebody remarks, the way of
the randy hopper. Honest Tom is a tolerably
straight onion-grower. He has a lovely lister, a
dear good soul, who weighs only some 15st. When
Honest Tom became Commissioner of Crown
Lands, Samuel, then a large bank clerk on a small
salary, marked the event, and immediately fell
violently in love with Miss Honest Tom. They were
engaged. Natural colonial consequences ensued.
Samuel was provided with an appointment in the
Lands Department, at a respectable salary. He
rose quickly—extremely fast, in fact—with Honest
Tom's assistance. But Honest Tom tell from
power, and could no long w help 'amuel. This
latter person hereabout reckoned himself so far
shoved forward in the promotional groove that his
superiors could not overlook him, and calculated,
shrewdly enough, that his overlooked seniors
would consequently growl in vain. Thus, it came
to pass that Samuel found the engagement with
Miss Honest Tom a terribly weighty affair—too
heavy a burthen to be any longer borne. Hence
the easily-contrived understanding, and the wily
Samuel's ultimate release—left in snug possession
of his valuable Honest Tom-bestowed billet, and
free to bo giddy, a id likewise to preside at St.
Mark’s White Cross Purity Society. But, now
questions are being asked in Parliament relative to
Samuel’s rapid and und served advancement; for
Honest Tom feels rather sore on the subject, and
Samuel himself has played, as was likely, the cad
to his superior senior inferiors, who -ray heartily
for the collapse of the present Hu dens Cabinet
and the restoration of Honest Tom to power.
Meanwhile, Samuel has manifestly the best of it,
and is a living example of the smartness of Aus-
tralia’s rapidly rising generation.
On some railway works in S. A. the con-
tractor was anxious to complete by a certain date
to save penalties. Much rested with his engineer,
a canny old fellow, who may bo called Williams.
“ I’ll make you a public presentation before all the
hands if you’ll shove the thing through by the
18th." “A valuable presentationV” queried Wil-
liams. “ Certainly a valuable presentation,”
though Williams well knew that his employer was
as mean as capital sts usuallv are. Williams suc-
ceeded. On the evening of the 18th, the contractor
called a meeting in the big caboose of all the hands
who chose to come. “ on the occasion of the pre-
sentation of a testimonial to Mr. Williams as a
m irk of," etc. etc. Williams was rather a favour-
ite, S'' that a full attendance resulted. The con-
tractor made a speech, eulogised the men and
Williams, and finished, amid uproarious cheering,
by handing what appeared to be a gold watch to
Williams. But Williams, ever suspicious, when
his boss’s generosity was in question, ex-
amlned the time-keeper critically, and said after a
short inspection, “You don't get at me like
this, old man. The watch is a thirty-shilling washed
Geneva, warranted never to go or bust. Take it
back. Make it something else. Do you call that a
* valuable presentation ’? ” The audience laughed,
cheered, and swore volubly. The contractor felt
slightly uncomfortable, scratched his head, and
said: “ Well, then, William, what do you say to a
horse?” “ None of that— a horse eats. Thatwould
mean money for feed.” “ Well, I can’t think of
anything else.” “ Look here, put a gold plate on
him with an in-cription.” “ Hear! near!” yelled
the audience The contractor caved in. Then
came the difficulty. How could a gold plate be
made to fasten on a horse ? It was settled that the
plate should be manufactured from a design fur-
nished by Williams, weight not to exceed two
ounces. This was done. The plate, bearing an
overflowing inscription, rove around the upper
end of the animal’s tail, and Williams was rendered
Fierfectly happy and contented. How the horse
elt about it— plait-il ou non plait-il —we have not
the slightest notion; but he carried the plate like a
churchwarden whenever his owner went for a
ride.
“We shall rejoice,” says a Melbourne jour-
nal, “ovef any wa idorer brought back to the
Forsaken Father.” The allusion is to the Salvation
Ai my’s success. The par. is followed by a funny
story ol a tight between a mastitf and a mule.
These juxtapositions of deep feeling and flippancy
in a respectable print startle us. The “Army”
appears to be doing a roaring trade in Collingwood
and Carlton. Many brands which the regular
clerg' could not reach, or would not touch with a
tongs, are snatched from the tire. One peculiarity
about those repentant ones is that no sooner aie
they properly converted than they take a si range
pleasure in telling the public what wretches they
were before tbe “Army” came along. The out-
spoken "confessions” of poor “.lean Jacques”
are modesty itself compared with what these
people Uive to say of themselves. The same
peculiarity is observable in reformed drunkards.
Gei one of the latter to speak at a temperance
meeting, and unless you are bald, every hair m
your head will be As stiff as the funnel of a copper-
fastened bogie-engine before he is half through.
JOHN BULL: "HALLO THEBE JUST DROP IT. HOW!"


XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
H
Horn
OMESPUNB. HOMESPUNS.
HOMESPUNS,
lomespuns Manufactured
Homespuns from
Homespuns SELECTED SORTS
Homespuns of the
Homespuns BEST
Homespuns AUSTRALIAN WOOLS
Homespuns and
Homespuns imported by
Homespuns HORDERN BROTHERS,
in
PITT-STREET.
Plain colours. 6d, 7id, Sid,
Old, lOd, lid, Is, Is ad,
Is 6d
New Heather Mixtures, Gd,
71d, Sid. KM, lid, Is, Is
3d, Is Ga, Is 9d.
Homespuns
Homespuns
Homespuns
Homespuns
Homespuns
Homespuns
Homespuns
Homespuns
Homespuns
Homespuns
Homespuns
Homespuns
Homespuns
Homespuns
Note well the address —
HORDERN BROTHERS,
in PITT-STREET only.
Patterns Free Per Post
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Hordern brothers,
311, Pitt-street (only).
Contractors to the Government of
New South Wales for
CARPETS, OILCLOTHS, LINOLEUM,
&c.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
You can get anything here you want XX
in the furnishing way. We have been XX
XX selected from among the many competi- XX
XX tors for supplying the XX
XX GOVERNMENT XX
XX with all the XX
XX CARPETS and FLOORCLOTHS XX
XX that they require. This ought to be a XX
XX sufficient guarantee that we can supply XX
XX you cheaper and better than any other XX
XX house in the city. '■ XX
XX Wo are obliged to keep a very large XX
and choice stock of the best carpets ex-
tant, for Public purposes, so why should
not you benefit by coming in and seeing
(you are not asked to buy) the very
latest designs in fioor coverings ?
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
BEDSTEADS and BEDDING in large
variety.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
g
XX
XX
XX
XX
The MORESQUE CARPET is a very XX
choice thing indeed, and not at all out XX
of the way expensive. XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
VELVET PILE SQUARES, direct from
Germany,
Just opened, and now being shown, are
about the choicest and most modern
goods obtainable. Wo have them in two
sizes, viz., 12 feet 6 inches by 9 feet 10
Inches, and 10 feet by 6 feet 8 inches.
They are in one piece, and beautifully
coloured. The pattern is not repeated,
XX as in ordinary carpets that are sold by
XX the yard, but the design covers the car-
XX pet, and has a very rich, and indeed
XX grand effect.
Another advantage is this style of car- XX
pet need not, and In fget is not supposed XX
to cover the room, but is laid in the XX
centre, and the fioor, is painted or XX
XX polished all around it, whleh is a manl- XX
XX rest advantage, as the carpet can be XX
XX taken up at a moment’s nomce and laid XX
XX down again by an inexperienced person: XX
XX also we would mention you cannotspoll XX
XX them by spilling water upon them, as XX
XX they will wash like a piece of calico. In XX
XX price they are very reasonable indeed, XX
XX the lowest being only 635. Come in and XX
XX see them to-day. XX
XX XX
XX The largest and best stock of XX
XX OILCLOTHS and LINOLEUMS is here. XX
XX —— XX
XX Remember we are-the Contractors to XX
XX the Government of N.S. Wales. XX
XX HORDERN BROTHERS, 211, Pitt-street. XX
XX XX
XX MANTLES are the goods in which XX
XX we excel.- XX
XX XX
XX We have a very large, choice, and XX
XX varied stock of these goods, and have XX
XX just augmented it by a shipment of XX
XX choice Ladies’ and Children’s Mantles XX
XX direct from Germany. We don’t know XX
XX how it is, but these • • erman goods seem XX
to place the British and Pans goods in XX
the shade altogether, both as regards XX
style, shape, and ( rice. XX
We are now showing in our northern XX
window a beautiful range of these XX
goods, and when down town this after- XX
noon have a look at these goods, and re- XX
member that if you do not see in the XX
window what you want, come in and XX
ask for it, XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX In our southern window you can see XX
XX some sweetly pretty XX
XX BALL DRESSES, XX
XX fit to clothe a princess; XX
XX Also all the etceteras for evening wear XX
XX are in the window, but convey only a XX
XX sight Impression of the extensive and XX
XX choice assortment of those goods kept.
XX We have also a grand lot of winter
XX Millinery, to suit young, middle-aged,
XX and old ladles. Widows’ Caps, Infants’
XX Hoods, Bridal Wreaths. Wedding Trous- XX
XX seaux, large variety, and cheap. XX
XX XX
XX DRESS DEPARTMENT.—We would XX
XX remind you that at no part of the winter XX
XX season have we been better assorted. XX
XX We have indeed a grand lot of Checks XX
XX and Tartans, Merifios, Cashmeres, Ure- XX
XX uadines, and plain Goods in all the new XX
XX colours. Also, in the Mour ing Goods XX
XX you would fail to find a nicer, more eco- XX
XX nomicttl, or in any way a better stock XX
XX anywhere in the colony. We pay parti- XX
XX cular attention to Mourning orders, get- XX
XX ting the goods direct from the manu- XX
XX facturor and supplying them to you at XX
XX the least possible advance in price. Give XX
XX us a trial. XX
XX XX
XX In the SILK DEPARTMENT, for XX
XX variety and price of all classes of those XX
XX goods, we stand unrivalled. All the XX
XX dressmakers come to us, and they under- XX
XX stand what is what; so this ought to be XX
XX a guarantee for price, style, and variety, XX
XX XX
XX GLOVES for ladies, gentlemen, and XX
XX children, for walking, visiting, evening XX
XX wear, or driving, can be obtained here XX
XX in greater variety, more reasonable in XX
XX price, and we are sure as modern in XX
XX style and colouring as anywhere in the XX
XX Southern Hemisphere. And now last, XX
XX but not least. yy
XX XX
XX The TAILORING DEPARTMENT, XX
XX which we have but recently started. We XX
XX have a grand cutter, a fashionable stock, XX
XX and a large stall' of working tailors, and XX
XX have the reputation for being prompt XX
XX and smart in everything, so, ladles, ad- XX
XX vise your fathers, husbands, lovers, and XX
XX sons to go to HORDERN BROTHERS, XX
XX in Pitt-street, for their Suits, Overcoats, XX
XX Riding and Boating Clothes, and you XX
XX will find them dressed as fashionably XX
XX and as neatly as if they went to the XX
XX oldest, most antiquated, and deirest XX
XX shop in the city. XX
XX XX
XX HORDERN BROTHERS is our name, XX
XX and our address 211, Pitt-street (only), XX
XX XX
XX Personal supervision, honest dealing, XX
XX and push, and your kind favour (for XX
XX which we thank you) are the reasons of XX
XX our great success. XX
XX HORDERN BROTHERS, XX
XX 211, PITT-STREET (ONLY). XX
XX near King-street- XX
XX XXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX xxxxx
XXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXA
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. HvHatuLred.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents tor N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MBRCHANDIS7iS,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN W RISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottled in bond for Export at the Distillery,
Dublin, and coqmu mere may, therefore* rely that it
has not been in the hands of “Whiskey Doctors.’’
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond 011 label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
XXXX XXXXXXIXXXXXXXXXIXXX XXX
XXXX XXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
T
0-DAY. TO-DAY. TO-DAY".
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
P.S.—You are sure to purchase tho XX
goods areso fresh, so new, so faa’alon- IX
able. x X
HORDERN BROTHERS, XX
211, Pitt-s,trcct. X;C
Tiio Residents in Sydney and Suburbs,
also Visitors to our City
from the Country Districts,
are, TO-DAY,
invited—specially invited —
to inspect the Beautiful New Lot of
WINTER DRAPERY GOODS
displayed in our numerous
WINDOWS,
at 173, 174, 30b, 311, PITT-STREET.
At the Water Police Court:—Constable
o‘>q.): " Get down off the sate there. Av the tiure’s
not 1 ig enough for yer butes, take ’em off and
lave ' m In the sthratc.”
KuTitn, one of the highwaymen who stuck
up and robbe I Mr. Topham of £14.50, tried to make
out, after lii-t arrest, that heshotono of the Wnnta-
badgery bushrangers, and got a £5O reward from
G nornm • ; r . Now, when the Wantabadgerv
ulf nr occupied, Mr. Egan was in gaol at Gundagai.
Hornburg, of Tasmania, Ims made an iron
man—a sort of second Wellington or Bismarck. It
can walk, grip, and wheel a perambulator. It was
bad enough to Introduce this poor person into an
unsympathetic world, but cruel to supply him with
a perambulator. It only remafhs for Hornburg
now to make a , and a . [What do you
mean V—Ed. B.]
A correspondent of the Port Macquarie
News has a future before him if he can only dodge
a few people who lately started up his way with
axes, shot-guns, and things. Hoar him: “I learn
that Mr. , late editor of the paper, lias ar-
rived at Kornpsoy, and has procured temporary
employment in that town. Being down in funds,
he had to tramp all the way, and uoubless visited
your sanctum en route. Ho is a well-educated
gentleman, and I trust will find the means of a
living which Tareo could not afford him.” How
grateful poor Mr. —r must be to him for the deli-
cate way In which his misfortunes are handled!
Save mo from my friends.”
In Melbourne there is a surgical instru-
ment and truss maker named Donovan. Hitherto
he has confined himself chiefly to wooden
legs with a ferrule on the end as big as one of
Major Smith’s slippers. But. to keep up with the
times, he now manufactures legs and feet out of
the same block. His first job was very successful.
A young man came over from Now Zealand with
both legs off. He said ’twas from a hay knife, but
it subsequently turned out that it was the result of
a fall down a shaft when returning at midnight
with some caulillowers from a Chinaman’s garden.
Donovan did not know this—thought ho was a
pious lad. So a bargain was made to supply him
with pins shaped as nearly as possible like those he
had lost. They fitted him to aT, but the ungrate-
ful fellow started home without paying, and sent
an abusive letter to say that he was about to enter
an action against the maker for breach of contract
as nis former foot were both club. Since then
Donovan has been wandering about Melbourne
with enough straw in his hair to stuff a crutch.
Four constables were In the hut the night
that Aaron Sherrltt was shot by the Kelly gang
and all four were dismissed for not having made
an effort to capture the desperadoes. One of the
four, named Alexander, is anxious to have a board
of inquiry, and asserts that he will take his stand
upon the evidence given before the commission.
A cursory examination of the evidence goes to
show that Alexander displayed a little more activity
than his mates. He volunteered to make a rush
out of the hut, and more than once warned his
senior in charge that “Mr. Hare would be wild if
they didn't get the outlaws;” and when he found
his ardour restrained he mounted guard »t the
partition, so as to cover the door with his gun
while the others more prudently placed themselves
under and on the bed in preparation against a sur-
prise, It looks as if Alexander had been made a
scapegoat of in order to screen his superior.
An elderly woman was lately brought up
in Wilcannia for suffocation. Appears to be some-
thing wrong here. Let’s see. Of course, the
thing is plain enough. She was suffocated, and
the customary “crowner's quest” was called
together to find out “ why she died,” Just as they
were empannelled to find out all about the late
Mr. Benjamin Battle, who, it will be remembered,
enlisted twice in the line-the first time in the 43nd
foot, and the second time in the unattached noose
of a rope. The Grazier makes rather merry
over this poor woman’s misfortune, or rather
over the fact that the local “bobby” found
out just ere it was too late that the Bible
on which the jury were sworn was no
Bible at all but a collection of Salvation
Array hymns. It is painful to think what the
result might have been had this not been discovered
in time. But the Grazier is entirely astray—
quite off the track, in saying that it was a hymn-
book. It was a good deal worse, and the Grazier
know it, though it didn’t let on. The fact is that
it was on a copy of Tom Paines “Age of Ueason ”
that the jury were first sworn, and the further
fact—which has been kept severely in the back-
ground—is equally true, that three of the jury-
men, who, tinged with the scepticism of the age
said it would have been just as binding on their
consciences have been laid up with puerperal fever
and nightmare. Just as well to toll the truth when
you go about it.
The typical Australian larrikin deserves a
par. all to his own cheek—and here it is! He is an
insult to his fellow-creatures, and a lasting disgrace
to his Creator. He is the personification of lazy
loalerlsm; and would have sold hs soul long ago
for a long beer, had not Destiny denied him a soul,
and so spoiled the baiter. His one amb.tion is to
play buttress to a public-house wall, and spit moral
and msteiial filth at every respectable person
whose bad luck 'tis to have to pass him by. In
currlshness he's bracketablc with the dingo, never
going for his prey but when ho thinks ’tis to bo had
without a struggle. Manliness, the constable, and
clean water are his supreme aversions. He never
washes, except when he’s made to in quod, and
then the water runs off his greasy hide as it does
off a duck’s back. He wears the tightest of
trousers, and the heeh of his “daisy mashers” are
tiie only things tall about him. He generally
snorts a gorgeous tie, and the reason he doesn’t put
151 b. of lat on his locks is because it doesn’t uit
the butcher to give him credit for that amount.
What grease he can annex, ho does. Little else
goes down his gullet but adulterated liquor, and
nothing comes out but blasphemy. In filthiness
the skunk is a fool to him, as in laziness is the
sloth. There is a tradition that a larrikin once did
an honest day’s work, but recent enquiries go far
to prove that the orieinal traditor of that yarn was
Ananias.
It was in a smiling town on the borders,
some time after old Tom Boyd crossed the Murray
The local Dogberry used to suffer considerably
from attacks of dyspepsia, and when the attack
was very bad he was not fastidious about his
lodgings, but would coil himself up iu the middle
of the road, or behind a fence if he managed to
reach one, and dream of his distant home. In
those good old days a man could sleep anywhere
without tear of the“foorco,” the only guardians
of the night being hungry packs of bobtailed
dingoes. Well, one night, Dogberry having an
extra bad attack of Ids old complaint, went com-
fortably to sleep in a puddle. The last customer
from ti>e ‘ shepherds’ Home” was wending his
way h meward, singing songs of Scotland in a
musical voice—save for an occasional hiccough—
when he encountered the majesty of the law. As
soon as he could gather himself up, twist the mud
out of his "eyes, and scrape the blood from
his nose, he relieved himself by a string
of the most gory Gaelic oaths. Then he began to
examine the cause of his trouble, and finding that
it was a sufferer from the complaint to which he
himself had been so long a martyr, he, after much
trouble, and language which made the ’possums
blush, managed to get Dogberry on his back and
trudged manfully back to the "Homo ” with him.
H ving dumped him down on the verandah, he
saw Dogberry’s face in the light, and without
more ad > he again bundled him upas well as he
could in his arms, and after getting him back,
dropped I im into the original puddle. It was then
that the lady ’possums, wtio were still sitting up
for their husbands, heard in a strong Scotch ac-
cent: "Dom themon; why ye fined me twa poun’
for tapin’ drunk last week. Jest Jay ye there till
yer her.” In the morning the local C.P.S. started
o ' n a bullock-dray for the “ Home,” but found
U. iberry by the way hanging his clothes on a
tence to dry. By noon next day he had recovered
sufficiently to fine two shearers 40s. each for con-
cealing too much she-oak.
Remember that a little Hbp Bitters saves
b 1 i. ctor’s bills, and cures when all else fails.
V*-..
THE NEWSLETTER.
A stiff leader appeared in the Sydney Echo
on the evils of organizations of one sort and
another, in leading- the bulk of the members by
the nose. Though the Echo didn’t say so, the
leader was Apropos of the decision of the jury in a
certain cause cilehre. The verdict which makes or
mars the fortunes of many an Australian citizen is
arrived at, not in the Court of Justice, but in the
lodge-room.
The first general meeting of the N.S.W.
local Self-Government Association was held last
week at the Exchange Hotel. A baker’s dozen
attended, and voted eighteen-fellows into divers
honorary offices. John Plummer was elected
honorary secretary to the idea, which is bound
therefore to go plumber down with the public.
An interesting incident occurred at the meeting.
'Twas when the hon. sec. road a letter of sympathy
and of apology for non-attendance from Jimmy
Inglis. Then that meeting wont out (to Aaron's
bar) and Irrigated bitterly.
The N.Z. Governor’s speech intimated that
the Government had resolved to take the
initiative in establishing a permanent Austral-
asian Exhibition in London, and would ask the
House of Representatives to invite the co-opera-
tion of the other colonies interested. The idea is
Mr. R. E. N. Twopeny’s. Mr. Twopeny, whose
scheme gets a general support from the Argus,
and is, for sc mo reason or other, completely “sat
on ” by the S.M. Herat.d, which declines even to
notice it in any way, has been on a visit to Sydney,
and left by the Manapouri to assume the editorship
of the Otago Daily Times.
Things educational are mixed at Auckland,
N.Z. At a meeting of the local Board of Educa-
tion, called to hear charges of misconduct against
two schoolmasters named Talbot and Martin, it
was stated ther* had been much wi.rse cases be-
fore the Board. There was one case where the
teacher Was in custody of the police, and being
released, forfeited his bail; there was a case where
a head teacher abandoned his school for six days,
and admitted his intoxication to the extent that he
slept three nights in the open air; and there was
another teacher who put up a notice that he would
be found “ at the pub.’’
At Haddon, one Ah Moon, a child of the
Sun, broke both his legs, and drove the wrong end
of his spine about three feet out of the perpen-
dicular, through a fall from the roof of a house.
The form his aberration took was that of fancying
himself a bird, and starting for a fly round. He
still thinks he would have been more successful
had ho but carried out his original intention. This
was to get on the rainbow; but as he couldn’t And
a ladder long enough, he was obliged to put up
with the roof of a seven-story house. Had ho
fallen on his head, all would probably have gone
well; but, like (ho buttered side of bread, he came
on the wrong end or side, with the result already
stated When ho gets round a bit -.e intends to
try again with a tail, as he attributes his too rapid
descent to the absence of that necessary ap-
pendage.
The offences disclosed on Thomas Dignan’s
defaulter’s sheet (during his service in the police
force from February ’(53 to May ’B3) read as fol-
lows “ May (5,18(55 : Being absent from his post
whilst on duty at Randwick Races, and found sit-
ting down in a publican’s booth. September (5,
18(5(5: Being drunk when on duty at the Randwick
Racecourse on the (ith Instant. August 37, 1878:
Drunk when coming off duty at 8 a.m. July 19,
1881: Drunk when ou duty at Government House.
May 3, 1883: Being thirty minutes late, and under
the influence of drink when coming off duty at 10
a.m.; also being thirty-live minutes late when for
duty at 3 p.m. Being two hours absent from duty,
viz., from 3 to 5 p.m., and found at his residence,
apparently under the influence of drink. May 18:
Being one hour and a half absent from his beat
viz., 8.30 to 10 a.m., and found drunk in bed in a
restaurant in George-street at 3 p.m.” Conse-
quently Mr. Reid appointed Dignan to be a Truant
Inspector under the Education Act.
Mathews, of Louth, recently wheedled the
N.S.W. Post-office authorities into supplying the
local telegraph messenger with a tricycle—it would
be cheaper, he said, than a pony, in that it wouldn’t
eat its nead off. Messenger mounted tricycle,
which bucked and broke messenger’s right arm.
Then the operator got on to it. It bucked and
slung him on to his head—gave him a severe scalp
wound, and nearly smashed his skull. Then, in
the words of a local scribe; “ We regret to learn
that Mr. Elias Cohen, J.P., of Sydney, who is stay-
ing in our town on business, when showing his
agility on the fragile thing, also got bucked off and
dislocated two of the small bones of his right
wrist.” The scribe, after Informing the world that
“ all the sufferers are progressing favourably,”
says he “ cannot help expressing his disgust at the
parsimony of the authorities in refusing a horse to
the messenger, who has an extraordinary amount
of work to do considering that we have 3000 of a
population, and the sending of the tricycle is
purely a delusion and a rnare, and is certainly a
disastrous outburst of generosity on the part of
the present parsimonious Government.” We have
interviewed the head of the department on this
subject. He assures us that all tricvoles are care-
fully broken in before they leave the head-office,
and says that the Louth messenger’s steed, having
half killed throe men—one for each wheel—win
now probably pause in its wild and murderous
career.
The accounts which appeared in the daily
press respecting the robbery from Mr. Topbam
were obviously furnished by the police. According
to these veracious narratives, the force dis-
tinguished itself in the most splendid manner by
the completeness of its arrangements and the
prompt energy which resulted in the discovery and
arrest of the robbers with the money in their
possession. Now, as a matter of fact, the only
part taken by the police in connection with the
arrest was a miserable fizzle—a display of stupidity
and dunderheadedness of the most stupendous
kind. It the police had been left to themselves
the arrests would never have been made. The
entire credit belongs to the guard of the train in
which the criminals travelled, and to Mr. Bull,
solicitor, of Windsor, who happened also to bo a
passenger. To go back to the actual robbery, how-
ever, there was quite a spice of comedv mixed up
in it. When Mr. T.ipham was bailed lip he didn't
realize the seriousness of the affair at once. His
first impression was that it was a bad sort of
practical joke. It didn’t take long, however, to
convince him to the contrary, and at the command,
enforced by a couple of revolvers, he emulated the
’coon of the story, and “came down.” The masked
highwaymen, being employes on Mr. Tophams
works, endeavoured to add to their disguise
by speaking in a sort of* Milesian Linuua-
French delivered with an Irish
accent. As they were tying Topham’s arms
they wore over-poweringly civil, asked him
considerately whether “ that” was too tight,
and assured him that they didn’t want to
“hurt a hair of his head.” This assurance was
quite apropos, as, while fastening him, thev acci-
dentally knocked his hat off. “ Hang it. - ” said
lopham, “let me keep my hat, anyhow. I haven’t
too much hair left, as it is.” Whereupon the
robbers, in the most accommodating wav, put his
hat ou his head again. The fellows didn’t work
systematically at all. They neither removed the
horses, disabled the buggy, nor injured the harness.
So that when Tophara did get the ropes untied, all
ho had to do was to jump into his buggy, and drive
to the nearest telegraph station, whence he sent
the alarm all ove the country. The robbers got
into the guard's van of a freight train, and were
so flash with the r money that the guard, already
warned to be on the look-out, suspected them im-
mediately, and when Campbeliiown was reached
communicated his suspicions to the constables ou
duty at the railway station. These worthies, how-
ever, pooh-poohed him, and were for Jetting the
men walk away. The guard, however, found an
ally in Mr. Bull, solicitor, and as tne men were
gomv from the station, the two followed them,
Mr. Bull declared to the police that if they didn’t
make the arrest, ho would do so on his own re-
sponsibility, and after a groat deal of insistence
aud persuasion, at length prevailed upon tuem to
do their duty.
"THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession .]
Miss Genevieve Ward, the Shakesperian
actress, who married a real live Russian Count, is
about to visit the colonies. She brings with her
several new plays, including: “ Forget-Me-Not,” a
piece in which she has starred both in England and
America—He was a small actor with a large
mouth. Some short time ago he was staying at a
hotel in-say—Manly. They were at dinner. Ho
noticed, after he had got through two courses and
was starting on the third, that a stranger sitting on
the other side of the table was staring at him with
distended eyes. “What are you staring at?” he
said, snappishly! “do you take me for the South
Head lighthouse ?” “ No,” replied the stranger, in
a musing tone; “but I thought you might have
been the Great Australian Bite. Lott i Wil mot
still clings to N.Z. At latest she was doing Inver-
cargill. . > o good shows in N.Z. Just now. ..Dunedin
school board, have ordered the enforcement of the
attendance of all children of school age, playing
in the “Pinafore” troupe.. N.Y. Music and Drama
publishes a blazing puff of the oldtlrae Australian
favourite, Alice May. But on the other hand,
the Nkw i'ORK Mirror states that Alice in
the character of Satanella in Balfe’s Opera',
Just revived in that city, made a dismal failure.
She disregarded the pitch of the orchestra so en-
tirely that more than once the audience mildly
“guyed ” her.
« • •
Wilhelmj has been altering and building
additions to his villa in Biobrich near Weisbaden,
with the intention of founding a violin school. He
has played in many concerts during the past season.
and has been at the same time busily composing.
He has recently finished a Siegfried paraphrase
which is said to be very fine In England a
burlesque actress nightly kicked her slipper into
the audience, and one night the gintleman who
caught it took it to his club and the members
drank wine out of it. This story was told to
another lady in the same branch of the business,
who has no love tor the owner of the slipper.
“ Each drank a slipperful to her health ?” she
asked. “Yes.” “well,” she remarked, “they
must all have got pretty drunk.”
The Hon. Thomas Walker, of Concord.
Octr portrait this week is of the Hon. Thomas
Walker, of Concord, a gentleman whose name
is known throughout H.S. Wales as a syno-
nym for wealth ( well employed.
We are authorised to state there is no con-
nection between the Salvation Army and the
Redemptive Loan, The one operates per faith,
the other per cents.
M'Dermott. who, at Wilcannia, the other
day, trudged 50 miles in 9hrs. challenges
any man in Australia to walk 50 or 100 miles for any
money. He had better go to Melbourne.
James Ten Eyokand Charles E. Courtney
are to row at Cazenovla lake, May 35.
The new English aixty-eight-ton cutter,
Marjorie, belongs to the same gentleman who
owns the Madge, and la another possible challenger
for the American Cup.
A regatta came off on Saturday last at
West Maitland, with the following results :
Amateurs, single aeulls: H. Morris 1, L. Morris 2,
J. M Duff 3. Olliocs and Stores, single sculls: J.
Chapman 1, J. Rirrell 3, A. Parnell 3. All-comers’
Race, double sculls: First division—W. and H.
Morris 1, J. Crimp, and R. James 3; second division
—L. and A. Morna 1, J, M‘l)utf and John Webb 3;
final heat: L. and A. Morris 1, W. and H. Morris 2.
Youths under 30. single sculls: J. Chapumu and J.
Blrrell a dead heaj,. A. Parnell third.
WILHELMJ.


At Tnree. last week, there took place an
At xnreu,M race for 100 yards,
and back to “the smrling-poinJ.be-
r°nn M| ? u H. Kobinson on horseback, and Mi. ,
on foot. The equestrian won by a bare yaid,
ljut his opponent means to try again.
Amongst other “old wives’ fables,’’ the
xu , , “ the king can do no wrong, still has
hold among the conservative section in
ACoe l * o Australia. The Governor, of course, is, with
Kea'‘Tnf .S'. fft.
jour nan. as ft daring outlaw. Some few
W Jlf«Cck awriter! who hailed from “the other
y -7 Imd who naturally viewed with derision and
.side, toadying to a shadow, was
(ll ‘ S fvclv threatened by a prominent official with
” n Vndicti ent^for high treason it ho persisted, by
an indlctinent critical remarks, in coming
the wind and the vice-regal nobility 7
‘.riw.o,. absurd and puerile notions had their origin
n 1 the “class” distinctions which are there as
J " miv and austerely drawn as among the most
of Eastern communities. The flood of new
ffhiod which is now flowing out west will, however,
exth-oate all this effeminate conservatism
of the South. .
Archibald Forbes
finished in Sydney as he
lieaan—“ standing room
nnlvand people are
wondering' who will be
K 8. Smythe’s next star.
The skilful way in which
the innch-traveiled ran
the delightfully affable
war correspondent
through the colonies,
savs more for his mana-
jrereal ability, than any-
thing he ever didbefoie.
Little by little the
truth creeps out touch-
ing John Brown. It is
now openly stated in
England that Her Ma-
jesty's chief personal
henchman died of D. T„
and that Her Majesty
knows it. Lord Torrlng-
ton, one of Her Majesty s
lords-in-waiting, is now
commonly known in the
London clubs as “John
Brown the Second,” on
the ground that just after
Brown’s funeral Her Ma-
jesty, overcome with
emotion, put her hand
kindly on Lord Torring-
ton’s shoulder, and, to
the unspeakable disgust
of that peer, observed:
“ You are i ow my oldest
personal attendant!”
Put it down to the
Macleay Klver corres-
pondent of the Pout
Maoquahie News, and
not to us. He observes :
“ It is said that the only
way tho Nombuccra
people can reach their
cemetery is by boats.”
Like Ophelia in the play
(N.B. Wo leave out the
name of the farce ’till
the boss editor comes in,
as our memory is defec-
tive), the people of Nam-
buccra have the privilege
of going to Heaven by
water. Well, Homer’s
shades bad the same, and,
Bite those of Nambuccra,
they also crossed Styx.
There is a Dr. Gil-
'stln Melbourne. He
chr. t President of tho
is thv "Vango Institution
Loyal t "e and bis Insti-
there. L nprove of the
tution disa, Mbrarie* and
opening of . m Sunday,
art galleries c nd many
When Dr. G. a return
of his admirers ->e on
from divine servu iek,
the first day of the w. Mr
they can dine, fill the >
pipes, bring along some
f ‘cold without,” take
their seats in cosy little
chairs, in dainty little
libraries, and take from
the book-case some good
book, such as “Ongen
ver'iLH Celsus,” or (yes,
they do keep these things
where you would least
expect to find them) the
“Decameron.” But this,
it will be seen at once, is
no reason why people
who can’t afford Ori-
gens ” or “ Decamorons ”
should be allowed to read
other good books on
Sunday. Strange, is it not,
how men’s opinions on
subjects change accord-
ing as those subjects
affect themselves or
others. We would stake
our reputation (the dear-
est thing on earth to us>
that if one of the “un-
washed” said to Dr. Gil-
christ, “ Doctor, you
mustn’t make yourself
comfortable in your
library on Sunday after-
noons, or smoke a pipe
there, or read books, or
look" through a stereo-
scope at some photo-
graphs of Homan ruins
or Greek wood-nymphs.
You must 101 l about your
house, or find out the
back entrance to the
“ pub.” round the corner,
or take a nap, and wake
up as cross as two sticks,”
the worthy ecclesiastic
would find his tongue un-
comfortably near a big
pile of profanity.
The proposed Haul in a* id Lee and Conley
and Hamm doublo-scull xace lor £4OO hangs lire.
In Sydney, when a business man “ wakes
up in the morning to find himself famous,” you
can bet all you have i ;hat the day before he was
“ on the eve of financial failure.”
MILD LUNACY.
“ Oh, come with me S” cried the stove-pipe hat,
As it danced o’er walk and gutter.
“I can’t come now,”* said the brindlo cat,
And her heart w*is in a flutter.
For was she not t o meet the bold boot-jack,
And the bii" broi m jug and the heavy placque.
And the paper-w eight and the shotepin true,
And the pair of tjongs and the wet-day shoe,
And the unlit la mp, and the pot of jam,
And the loose d xir-knob, and tne flo vmg dam,
As downward she went roaming
In the gloai nlng ?
” Why do you wiep ?” asked the clarionet
Of the sprinkling-pot one day;
“ I weep—l wee p ’’—and the tears fell fast—
“ I weep to hoar you play I”
For the sprin tling-pot lived next door to
A bellows-luuged man, who constantly blew
On the clarionet with monotony—
Tum-tedle-tidle-todle-tadie-tum ”
Had d. af, dumb, blind, and lachrymose b S-
come. ~ ,
From the “ tedle-tadle-tee
It could not flee! _
POLITICAL POINTS.
Ashmead-Bartlett, M.P. for Eye, -will move
in the Commons at an early date that Britain
assume the Protectorate of New Guinea.
In grim and sterner days of old,
They hung on crosses robbers bold;
But now, so mixed the age with dross is.
On robbers ’tis they hang the crosses I
It is a curious fact that the most promi-
nent Radical leaders in the House of Commons are
very wealthy men. Laboucharo has a large in-
come, quite independent of what he derives from
his big shai’e in the Daily News, and from his
weekly Truth. Mr. Joseph Cohen, M.P. for New-
castle, has an immense fortune, and also owns one
of the most prosperous newspapers in the United
Kingdom, the Newcastle Daily Chronicle.
Sir Wilfred Lawson is a man of means, and Sir
Charles Dilke inherited a handsome fortune. This
explains how it is that Pai’liamentary x-adiealism ;n
Grett Britain is so mild and philosophical. The
day, however, cannot be far distant when, by puri-
fication of electioneering processes, it won’t cost
thousands of pounds for a man to get into the
House of Commons. Then that Chamber will com-
mence to become really representative of the true
“ people ’’ of England. Real working men will sit
on the benches, and Constitute a party similar to the
“extreme left” in the French Chamber of Depu-
ties. And then the real
people and the
mence, and will eontm wliethcr a civil war will
have been accompl.ehea. depend entirely
precede the revofution or not h h the
upon the degree of BtubDornnea» d reslgt
Couit and aristocracy, monopolies which in-
?Xe V tho' m£S°nio friwpondlwi a<,pt«»lon aid
pauperdom.
The decisions of N.S.W. Judges have opened
the be tree-spoa • t)iere su ia c icntly
difficult to touch a y .. -\ ibe i however warmly
ahve to f !a test thing* mlt, how e ver, is that the
treated. The latest ruing nfl ftracttbe attention ol
‘ Ssn?ssg is
L “‘4111“ -fei f»”“\d n ’ompwM
friend? Mann, to get a rule,«W £r hmve to
a firebrand scribe to run the paper from the
moment of his own committal, so that accumulated
libels may be accomplished at once—altogether
say, counting' in one leader and two sub-loaders
daily, a total sum of eighteen per week. Thus he
will he able to serve the sentences one alter the
other, freed from the awful trouble of coming out
of gaol and going back thirty or forty times, bo,
it may be observed, even a newspaper proprietor
can hit on brilliant ideas occasionally. Hut he
might still further strengthen his position by is-
suing a Sunday edition which would increase the
weekly libels-total to twenty-one.
Joseph Bradshaw writes from Footscray
(Vic.) to the Argus to say that the appointment of
the Duke of Albany (Prince Leopold) as Governor
of Victoria would “ act as a powerful magnet in
the attraction of the aristocracy of wealth, talent,
and culture of the colonies to this city (Melbourne.)
. . . . Melbourne would be constituted the head
quarters of the British naval armaments in these
seas. The result would be a decided increase in
the activity of our commerce, and a marked
enhancement in the value of real property. . . .
British influence and interests would be augmented
in Australia collectively, and Victoria eminently
would become a more prominent section of the
British Empire, and amove important faction in
Imperial politics.” Wo have a lot of Bradshaws to
contend against, commencing with the person who
started “ Bradshaw’s Guide,” but It was reserved
for this particular one (Joseph, of Footscray) to
tell us hew to enhance the prosperity of ah eady
prosperous colonies. We know when the Duke of
Albany was born. We also know that when he was
wrestling with his Royal alphabet, inen now in
their intellectual prune were studying- the causes
of the rise and tall of nations, and endeavouring to
discover social or economical laws or methods by
which the misery and want, the ostentation and
the squalor, of European countries could be kept
from these favoured shores! We know that even
while the colonies were in their political swaddling
clothes, the gravest mistakes have been made re-
garding land tenure and a host of other things
which are prime factors in that very destitution
and political turmoil we are so anxious to escape.
And it is while we arc on the threshold of these
momentous questions—questions that have kept
Mill and Spencer, Carlyle and Buckle, awake o
nights—we nave Joseph Bradshaw telling usthat all
will be well with the Victorians if this wretchedly
debilitated young man be selected as their Gov-
ernor. After all, is it not the Bradshaws of
society who tiro the grofl-test ohst&clcs in tho way
of national progress V
• • •
Victorian Government mean to endow
their Education Department with land. Wise
policy, if done “ on the square. ... .On the Queen s
birthday, at Cairo. Tewflk attended the • trooping
of too colours,” having a seat placed for his Khe-
i divinity’! under the Uuion Jack. Had they lowered
i tho Hag that's braved, etc. etc., and hoisted
Mohammed Ismailson by the halyards, the cere-
would have been a complete success The Vic-
torian “new party” (which is bossed by M“ Intyre*
dined together the other day. Just after the tirst.
toast ’twas agreed that “ watch and wait ” was the
right policy; at a later stage ’twas thought that
“feel and try” was the better line; in the wee
sma’ hours the conclusion was to go for Service
straight, but somehow the difficulty was to go
straight. Still later on the going was for 8. and B.
(not Service and Berry, though.) Efforts to be
made to try and induce Now Zealand and Queens-
land to enter the PostalUnion—Queensland Gov-
ernment defeated on Transcontinental Railway Bill
by 37 to 16 Vogel urges the Australian Colonies
to contribute towards maintaining a fleet of the
Royal Navy for occupation of the South Pacific...
j. Henniker Heaton writes to Granny— why not
to his own paper, the Evening News ?—to say that
it is time for us to federate, and that Lord Dufferin
is the man to do it. Really ! Now, oughtn’t Gov-
ernor “ Wold” to be bettor ? But perhaps Henniker
can put enough Heat-on to Weld us together with-
out getting any Duffer in.... Acoustic properties of
now Court-house at Forbes blanked bad
Victorian House of Assembly, four members sit
with MTntyre and his gang of oppositionists, not
because they (said four) belong to that mob, but
because there’s no room for them among their own
people. This is encouraging for Mac— Gauuanny
on social grounds thinks that mining should not bo
encouraged I And yet without miners the colonies
would be sadly minus socially as well as industrially.
The Adarainaby cor-
respoadent of the Down
and Oitmtree writes:—
“ A hall is to opened hero
for boxing'. A pity men
do not devote t eir lei-
sure to something: more
useful.” This was written
by a poundkeoper's wife,
after an extra heavy day
at the washtub.
There was a time
when tt. 8. Smythc was
known as Morok, the
name of the wild-beast
tamer, in the “ Wander-
ing' Jew.” The terra of
endearment was first be-
stowed on him when lie
was business manager
tor Bundmann, some
fourteen years ago. Lot’s
see : Is there any book in
which a savage Scotch-
man, with a frown like
Ne 1 son’s D uwnfall,
figures? If so, wo may
now bo able to call R.B.S.
something else.
A begging Bishop is
no rarity ; yet a bishop
imploring for food and
cast-off clothing for his
own family is at least a
novelty. The Bishop of
Pretoria, however, is in
such a fix as to bo com-
pelled to take this tone :
“ Glad, from sheer neces-
sity, to receive from
friends, and even stran-
gers, gifts of clothing for
my children; always
anxious how to meet the
expenses of travelling
and postage. . . . The
income of the Bishop will
not feed his family. . .
The incomes of the
clergy, save the younger
men, in Pretoria, are
barely sufficient to allow
them food. . . Children
are stinted even in bread
and milk I am
simply living from hand
to mouth on the sale of
things in a box received
from England. There is
no money in the place,
and offertories are falling
week by week. The pro-
spect before me is insol-
vency, personal and epis-
copal, and then where to
get bread 1 know not. I
have, from simple neces-
sity, offered my waggon
for sale.”
At Wellington, N.Z„
in the divorce case of
Parker v. Parker (hus-
band against wife), peti-
tioner deposed that he
was married in England,
28 years ago ; that after
bis wife arrived in N.Z.
she became very familiar
with a male servant on
their farm, and that there
were several quarrels
owing to his wife’s visits
to a disreputable bouse.
She then left home, and
went into service in Wel-
lington. He entreated
her to return homo, but
she declined. That was
17 years ago. Witness hud
been informed by some
neighbours that Mrs.
Parker was residing at
N. Plymouth with one of
the co-respondents. Bid
not follow his wife when
she went away, but sent
his eldest son to search
for her in Wanganui. His
son did not find any trace
of her. Ho had heard the
respondent hud borne
Haze several children.
After several other wit-
nesses had given evidence
His Honor summed up,
the jury retired, and re-
turned with a verdict that
the respondent had com-
mitted adultery with
W hito and Haze and that
the petitioner had not
condoned tire offence.
His Honor said ho would
have to consider the
cjuestlon of delay in tak-
ing the present proceed-
ings before pronouncing
1 a decree nisi.
One reason why there is such intense de-
termination to over-ride M. Ce Lessens’ treaty
rights to make the second Suez Canal, is that
there's money in it. Original £2O shares of the
present Suez canal, are soiling at £IOO Sheridan
describes dynamltism as godlike warfare. He
must surely be an ultra-Calvlnlst Russia and
Persia have concluded a treaty re boundaries
Liberal candidates have no chance in Ireland.
Nationalists all the rage There are twenty news-
pap r proprietors on the Commission of the Peace
in England: nine of these the appointments of the
present Lord Chancellor Paul de Cassagnac
urges the restoration of the Bourbon as preferable
to the Republic... Sir Auckland Colvin succeeds
Major Baring as Consul-General in Egypt—De
Lessens has gone to L mdon to confer with tho
British Government re a second Suez Canal...
House of Commons has thrown out Woman’s
Suffrage Bill by 16 votes.
The latest phase of a Corranderrk (Vic.)
aboriginal station grievance is that the blackfel-
lows want to be accommodated with free railway
passes. They’ll be wanting mashers’ dog-collaiS
and their hair parted in tho centre next.
Analysis has demonstrated the spirituous
elemerat of Wolfe’s Schnapps to bo absolutely
pure, and the highest medical authority sanctions
its ysc in pro eronce to any other preparation
where a stimulant is required.
HURROAR FOR THE LAW!
"Leave her to me, Ned! They can’t flog me for it. But if you was to jine in, they’d flog us both ?”


315 George Street.
A few of our undertakings MOST SUCCESS
FULLY carried out, among which will be found
the LARGEST, MOST DIFFICULT, and MOST
RESPONSIBLE events that have taken place since
the opening of this establishment.
His Worship the MAYOR’S PICNIC, for 450, at
Clontarf.
His Worship the MAYOR’S BALL, for 1600, Exhi-
bition Building, at which his Worship, John
Harris, entertained their R.H.'s PRINCES AL-
BERT and GEORGE, EARL CLAN WILLIAM,
and the Officers of the Detached Squadron.
MASONIC BALL. English Constitution, for 1353,
Exhibition Building.
MASONIC BALL, N.S.W. Constitution, at Town
Hali, Sydney.
Visit of their R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Llthgow Valiey Mines and Zigzag.
Dinner a la Russe, for 60, in Government Palace
Dining Car while travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000 SCHOOL CHIL-
DREN—re Queen’s Statue Demonstration—undei
VERY SHORT NOTICE, only receiving the
order at 2.30 p.rn., to be ready on the spot at 12.30
p.m. the following day.
Visit of THEIR R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT ana
GEORGE to Captain Cook’s Landing, south side
of Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon and refn sb
ment, for 100, under VERY SHORT NOTICE, re-
ceiving order at 9.30 p.m., to be ready on the p ■<
at 1 p.m. following day.
The LADY MAYORESS’ RECEPTIONS, Town
Hall.
The UNION CLUB BACHELOR’S BALL, at Ex m
hitlon Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE WINDEYEH.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE INNES.
Dinner A la Rime at St. Paul’s College, for 150 Mem
bers of the CBURCH OP ENGLAND SYNOD.
Dinner A la Russe to the INTERCOLONIAL R 1 FI h
TEAMS, Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at HA WK
BURY RACES, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at RANi>
WICK RACES, in Grand Stand.
The CONSULAR DINNER, in our new Banqn
Room.
ARMIDALE RAILWAY Demonstrations. Ban-
quet for 400; MAYOR’S BALL, 600, same evenlm
and CITIZEN’S BALL, 500, the following even
ing.
ALBURY-WODONGA RAILWAY DEMONSTRA-
TION.—Grand Government Banquet for 1016
at Albury. Grand Ball, 800, following night.
Children’s feast, 1184, the following afternoon
and evening. Also, Breakfasts, Dinners, Teas,
and Suppers, in Government Dining Car, to
His Excellency Lord Augustus Loft us, the
Ministry, and Ms.P., while travelling to and
from Banquet, &c., &c.
Numerous Banquets and Entertainments by HIS
WORSHIP THE MAYOR at Town Hall, &c.
Numerous Dinners d la Russe in the N.SAV
GOVERNMENT PALACE DINING CAR, whb
travelling by rail, on account of the GOVERN
MENT.
Together with a numerous lot of Private Dinner*
Feasts, Weddings, Garden Parties, Balls, Tet
Meetings Laud Sales, Suppers, Picnics, Fishing
Excursions, &c.
W. W ALKER AND SONS,
EC KNIT LI RE MANUFACTURERS,
Bun hill Row, London.
Sydney Branch;
103 CLARENCE STREET, off Barrack Street.
Highest Award Sydney and Melbourne Inter-
national Exhibitions.
COMFORTABLE TEETH
Ihe use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are tluee kinus, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the Yellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That witn the Green
is invaluable to pet sons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
gums,decay and offensive breath, for by uslngafew
drops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never suiier again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and wnite to the end. That
with the Red Is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
ee that each Label bea/» (he name, “ Wilcox arid
Co., 239 Oxford-street, London.”
OE
ASTHMA,COUGH, BRONCHITIS.
One ot these Cigarettes gives immediate relief in
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis,
shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them mvaluable, as they instantly check the
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution. -To guard against fraudulent imitations,
see that e<ich box hems the name of “ Wilcox ana
Co., 239 Oxford-street, London.”
HE HIGH SCHOOL, HOBART, TASMANIA.
Rector: The Rev. R. D. Poulett-Harris, M.A.,
T
r ;.r x umcurnams, 1V1.A.,
Trinity College, Cambridge. Headmaster: Mr. Ed.
Edmondson, Christ Church, Oxford. The salubrity
of the Tasmanian climate, combined with the high
standard maintained by the Council of Education
has brought the collegiate advantages of the colony
prominently under the notice of Australian
parents. The High School occupies the head place
m the degree lists. It surpasses all colonial educa-
tional establishments in the healthiness and beauty
of its situation, which is upon a slope bordering
the Queen’s Domain, and m the vicinity of the
Cricket Ground and Saltwater Baths. The T.B N
Co. issue return tickets to scholars at single fares!
Prospectus and terms may be obtained from Mr.
JAMES E. CUNNINGHAM, 130 Elizaboth-strect.
Sydney, or from the Rector.
W. H. PALING,
352 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Pianofortes,
Pianofortes,
Pianofortes.
By the following renowned English, French, and
German Makers:—
Erard
Pleyel
Collard k Collard
Broadwood & Sons
Klrkman
Soufleto
Frost & Co.
Lipp & Sohn
Aucher
Ronitch
Hnndt k Sohn
Bluthner
Steinway
Schiedmayer
Challen & Son
Ecke
Elcke
Paling & Co.
A. Bord
Berden & Co.
Hera
Sohweehten
Schwander
Forster
And numerous other Manufacturers.
ORGANS by Bell & Co., Palace Organ Company ;
Waters & Co., Peloubert, and others.
Bell & Co’s. Celebrated Organs, besides other
Awards, gained First and Special Prize over all
others at the recent Sydney Exhibition.
HARMONIUMS bt Alexander & Co., etc.
A Splendid Stock of MUSIC always on hand.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
Owing to W. A. P.’s, removal to those immense
promises, next door, lately occupied by Prince,
Ogg and Co., the present Magnificent Stock will be
sold at REDUCED PRICES at
W. H. PALING'S,
352 GEORGE STREET.
tIMIN
SacminerV
’r
CHAMPIO
fNOINES
AND
r\
rs THKmh
SAW
asa
FLfIUR
MILLS
a**
FLEMING’S Carriage and Machinery Repository
22 and 33 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
NOULTISrS
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON’S
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we cun prove what we say. There are no failures and no
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cur*
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSI A, promote DIGESTION, relievo distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit).
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sola Everywhere, Price Is. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PIUS
Yf
mar
STOUT.—This favourite brand
of Stout selected with great care from the
oest of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
SfmLL*oKsoitoUST I** 1 ** •™ TWb “»
SENT tn an Envelope for 6d. Stamps to defray
Postage.
SOCIAL SCIENCE:
A Treatise on all Nervous Disorders which cause
Impediments to Marriage, and all Chronic
Diseases ; also, How to Choose a Partner for Life,
so as to live happy and produce healthy children,
and how to regain and preserve your health, &c„ &c.
Address: R>. T. SELBY, Medical Herbalist,
Devonshire-street, Surry Hills, Sydney.
Turkish Baths.
For GENTLEMEN.-OPEN DAILY (Sundays and
Wednesday afternoons excepted).
For LADIES. —On Wednesday Afternoons only,
from 2 p.ra. till 10 p.m.
These Baths have been pronounced to be highly
beneficial to all persons suffering from rheumatism,
gout, neuralgia, dyspepsia, indigestion, cold, sci-
atica, and all complaints of this nature, as well as
being a healthy, invigorating renewing of the
lives m to al * personB obli ffea to lead sedentary
Try it, and experience its wonderful effects.
Prices of Admission-Single bath, ss. Six tickets, £l.
After 5 p.m., 2s. for gentlemen only. Quarterly
ticket, £5. Family ticket as per arrangement.
m, uo* * C - A - SHEKWIN, Manager.
Bligh Street.
CADET EXAMINATION, SURVEY OFFICE.
IT is hereby notified that an Examination of
Candidates for Employment as Cadets in the
Department of the Surveyor-General will be held
early in November next. The exact date, when
fixed, will be duly notified. Candidates must have
attained the age of 16 years, or they will not be
eligible for examination.
Intending competitors can obtain further in-
formation upon applying 1 by letter to the Surveyor-
General, or personally to the Secretary and
Cashier.
(Signed) P. F. ADAMS,
Q „ Surveyor-General.
Surveyor-General’s Office,
Sydney, 22nd June, 1883.
TH7 IT—TOTJ CAN’T BEAT IT I
XV;
Sole Agents« v
BOBERT PHILLIPS AND 00- 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
g*ll T H AN II MANNELL,
SHIRT TAILORS. HOSIERS, & MERCERS,
298 George Street, Sydney.
Established 1844.
Our CELEBRATED WHITE SHIRTS, readymade
80s., 405., 505., 60s. the half-dozen.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 1860.
INCORPORATED by ACT of PARLIAMENT, 1878
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £125,000
Directors:
Hon. Henry Mort, M.
. Caird, Esq.
m. Busby, M.L.C.
George S
Hon
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
tt - M.L.C,
—jby, Bf’.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
Auditors :
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq.
Manager;
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches*
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Glralambone,
Gosford, Nyngan, and Bourke.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
London Office: L5B Leadenhaill-street
Director: Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent: G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Flnan-
cial Atfency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wool
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
Sydney Gymnasium !
LIVERPOOL STREET
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Class Daily.
ALL BRANCHES OF ATHLETICS TAUGHT.
G. M. d’HAHmiJRT, Instructor.
JL> O BERT BUTCHER & cU.
(Late William Long),
iW WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders receive prompt attention,
THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPPHTV
INVESTMENT COMPANY (IJMITED®
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT
t or 13 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and U PWAfi DS lor shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENI. on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Ba nit
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
Y DKOPATH Y.-MR. JOSEPH REEVE;
Hydropathic Physician.
An Infallible System of Purification for the Cure
of Coughs, Colds Acute or Chronic Indigestion, Con-
stipation, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Paralysis, Liver
Complaint, Skin Eruptions, or any other Inflam-
matory Diseases, All persons who are suffering,
and weary of using physic, and hopeless, are in-
vited to adopt this Hygiene System. A few weeks’
treatment will suffice for nearly every case.
Ladles and Children attended to. In-door Patients
received at the Establishment. Terms on
application.
“Throw physic to the dogs, I’ll none of it.”—
Shakespeare.
“Purification in the old law did save life.” Milton.
Address:
8 Royal Terrace. Nicholson Street,
FITZROT, MELBOURNE,
m
v- *
■T
The Autophone!
THE ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY
have been appointed Australian Agents for
this, the Climax of Musical Invention. Call and
see them.
GEORGE STREET,
Just Opposite the Entrance to the Markets.
The Autophone is a wonderful little Instrument,
which, while it weighs leas than three pounds, has
the lungs of a full-sized parlour organ, and exe-
cutes its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect.
It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three keys, and
all the parts of most difficult music.
On it a child can correctly play, without instruc-
tion, any of its music, which at present consists of
over 300 selections from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas,
Waltzes, Polkas, Marches, Popular Songs, &c. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, In which chords predominate, but also
has wonderful power in executing very lively
pieces.
It is pitched for the voice or orchestra, and has
a little card-holder for convenience in singing.
Any orchestral Instrument, Violin, Flute, &e„ can
be played to accompany the Autophone.
It is entirely well-adapted for Country Churches,
Sunday Schools, the Family Circle, and also for
Dancing,
The AUTOPHONE is like every other good thing,
the longer you have it the better you like it; and
as new music is being published every week, it has
an endless fund of amusement in it.
80s.
30s.
W
ILCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn sbellers
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Wautut
Wood,
40. &o. &e.
HEBBLEWHITE &CO.
416 GEORGE STREET.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 16th June, 1888,
PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOL FOR GIRLS, SYDNEY
APPLICATIONS will be received at this office
for the position of HEAD MISTRESS in the
above School. Salary, £4OO a year.
All applications must be in writing, and accom-
panied by testimonials as to qualifications and
character, and must be sent in en or before the
9th proximo.
It is to be understood that the engagement may
be terminated on either side after three months’
notice, dated from the beginning of a quarter.
G. MILLER,
Acting Under-Secretary.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 15th June, 1883.
PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOL FOR BOYS, SYDNEY.
APPLICATIONS will be received at this office
for the position of HEAD MASTER in the
above School. Salary, £6OO a year.
All applications must be in writing, and accom-
panied by testimonials as to qualifications and
character, and must be sent in on or before the
9th proximo.
It is to be understood that the engagement may
be terminated on either side after three months’
notice, dated from the beginning of a quarter.
G. MILLER,
Acting Under-Secretary.


“Charles Darwin,” worthy subject for
English heroic verse. Sydney Uni. ’B3.
Writing about a mine in New England, the
Ak.mida.lb Chronicle urges the people up there
to go on sinking shafts, because the Magdola Mine
shareholders once sank the deepest shaft in the
world, and thereby, “ though they did not find what
they searched for, showed an example of per-
sistence and energy.’’ This reminds us of the story
of the persevering man. He came across a log
one day, and determined to jump over it. First
time he tried, he barked his shins ; second time, he
tripped and broke his nose; third time, he bioke
his leg. Then he gave it up. There’s nothing like
perseverance.
The well-known firm of Brinsmead and
Co., pianoforte manufacturers, have opened a
sales branch of their London business at 101
Collins-street, Melbourne. The show-rooms have
bee i flit d up elegantly; in fact, almost luxuriously
The stock of pianos Messrs. Hrinsmead and Co
keep, although consisting of only about twenty’
represent the various leading classes of their
manufacture; in all, there are twelve differently
constructed pianos-eight Brinsmead. and four
Esdaile. The Ksdaile pianos are the instruments
recently introduced by Mr. Horace Brinsmead,
who, when here last, saw the great demand there
was for a cheaper piano than the Brinsmead, and
therefore entered into arrangements with Messrs
Esdaile and Co. to open, in conjunction with
Messrs. Brinsmead, a branch depot, and had special
designs constructed for Australia. The prices
when the quality and tone are taken into consider-
ation, appear very low ; but these, as well as the
Brinsmead reduced prices, are easily accounted for
by the fact that no intermediate profits are now
required, as the purchaser is put in direct commu-
nication with the manufacturer.*
Press correspondents wanted immediately,
m every town in Australia. Australian Press
Agency,9!Lt. Collins St. East, Melbourne; Sydney,
100 jrltt Du —ADY,
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, us this
Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief:
a small bottle often cures. Ask for
and get it; spurious imitations are sometimes
offered.
p
ÜBLIC NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON k CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 482 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
Ok, TWO DOORS NORTH OF OLD SHf»P
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
rWe shall be glad to home this index posted up by
1 secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general .]
RACING.
cSSraToweWJJ3. (QJ July ill 18.
V B.C. Steeplechase Meeting July 21.
Victoria B.C. Winter
JerilderieClub
Goodiwmdi Races ??'
Tatte mail's Club ;• ■ Au ? u^ t ll'
Hawkesbury R.C August 23, 25.
Liverpool J. C ........August 29.
A. J.C.Spring September I, 4, 6,8.
Northern J.C September 19, 21.
Svdnev Turf Club October 6.
Victoria Amateur T.C. October 13, 20.
Victoria B.C. Spring November 3,6,8,10.
Parramatta J.CL November 9.
Clarence River J.C. (Amateur) November *.
Murrurabidgee T.C November 21, 22. 23.
Narandera J.C November 29, 30.
AQUATICS
Glebe Rowing Club Amateur Regatta July 14.
New South Wales Association Regatta . .October 6.
COURSING
Victoria Club July 18, August 22.
South Australian Club June 12, July 18.
Ballarat Club June 28, July 26, August 28.
N.S.W.CIub June 28, July 31.
Australian Club July 27, August 29.
ATHLETICS.
South Grafton Athletic Sports July 13.
J. Aplitt v. T, M. Malone, 175 yards, £2OO,
Botany ■ • • • •• ■ J uly 14.
Grand Athletic Handidap, Grafton Race-
course V J
Edwards v. O’Leary, 6 days’ walk August 6.
Six Days’ Walking Sweepstakes, Sydney
August 6 to 12.
BICYCLING.
Sydney B.C. Sports August 4.
FOOTBALL.
South Melbourne V. Sydney Clubs, As-
sociation Ground July 7,10,12.
South Melbourne v. New South Wales,
Association Ground July 14.
South Melbourne v. orthern District,
at Maitland July 17.
Sydney v. Brisbane Clubs, at Brisbane
* August 15.16.18, 23.
Parramatta v. Glebe, at Wentworth Park... July 7.
Parramatta v. Newcastle, at Newcastle—July 21.
SHOOTING.
Victoria v. N.S. Wales, at Melbourne July 16.
Melbourne Gun Club Champion Stakes ...July 19.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Frank Robertson and Turner are matched
to run 150 yards at Bourke, for £lOO a side.
At Wilcannia, on sth July, Maodermott
walked 50 miles in 9h. 13V6 min. The wager was £35
that ho would not walk the distance in 9h. 30min.
During the past N.Z. racing season, old
Lone Hand, of Australian steeplechase fame,
started in twenty-one races, but only got home
first in three.
With regard to the proposed trip of an
Australian Eleven to England during the next
cricket season, the English county clubs have re-
fused the terms proposed on behalf of the
colonials, which include half of the grand-stand
receipts.
The Murrumbidgee Turf Club will hold a
meeting on 21st, 33nd, and 33rd November. The
Cup distance has been altered to one mile and a
half, the Town Plato to one mile and a quarter,
and the Grand Stand Stakes to one mile. The added
money will amount to £1360.
Athletic benefits are now the craze in Mel-
bourne. The next on the programme will be for
Henrv, the footballer, and is fixed for the 16th
instant. Miller and the Bdwards-O’Leary combina-
tion will take part in the show.
A team of Canadian gentlemen amateur
lacrosse players recently visited England, and, to
increase the attraction, they took over a team of
Iroquois Indian professional players. The Indian
team was captained by “Big John” who visited
England in 1876, since which time lacrosse has taken
a firm hold amongst British sports.
t A club for the encouragement of the
“noble art” has been started at Newtown. Last
Friday evening the first meeting was held, when
some novices performed, and two prominent
members of the Sydney Mercantile Rowing Club
wound up the proceedings with a really scientific
set-to.
William Muldoon, the famous wrestler,
who arrived in ’Frisco with the Modjeska troupe
to play Charles the Wrestler in “ As You Like It.”
found himself confronted with Donald Dennie, the
champion of Scotland. A challenge has passed
between them, and a match has been arranged
An Unknown ” is also backed against Muldoon,
towrestle in his favourite Graeco-Roman style for
The Hawke’s Bay Jockey Club Steeple-
chase meeting, which closed the N.Z. racing season
or 1883-3, was the most successful cross-country
fixture yet held in that colony. In the big event
sixteen started, and after a great race and struggle
m the straight, resulted in a length victory for
Marence, who carried top weight, I3st 131 b. The
iasmanian-bred Quamhy, list. 31b., was second,
and Loch Lomond third.
Fred. Archer has again been in hot water.
He was summoned before the stewards of the
Jockey Club at Epsom, at the Instance of the Duke
of Portland, who called upon him to explain why
he had not gone to Harpenden to ride Silver Bell,
whose owner. Lord Hastings, has, with his Grace,
second claim upon his services. Archer was re-
primanded, and told not to do it again. In the
French Derby, wherein he rode the winner, Fron-
tin, a protest was entered against him for jostling,
but as the evidence was not considered conclusive,
it was dismissed. For this little job Archer was
well paid, the owner oi the colt having agreed to
give him £2OO if beaten, and £SOO if he won
“ New Zealander ” has written us to the
effect that our accounts of Slade’s performances
in America differ entirely from those in the New
York Police Gazette. In giving accounts of
Slade’s performances in America, we gave the
general tone of the U.S. press. The Police
Gazette, judging from clippings sent us, gave
glowing descriptions of the Maori, no doubt for an
advertisement, as the Mace-Slade combination
were announced to be under contract to the owner
of the paper. As a matter of fact, Robinson, an
American heavy-weight amateur, had all the best
of Slade In a set-to; and as to matching him against
Sullivan, Mace will not permit his to
arrange a match without six months’ training is
allowed—which clearly shows the combination do
not mean business.
Elias Laycock is open to row any man in
Australia over the champion course, and will stake
£3OO to £200; or any man in the world over the
same course for £SOO a side, and will allow £IOO for
expenses. At present we do not think there is any
man in Australia fit to row Laycock, although it
cannot be long before a man of his age shoots his
bolt; and, as for the £SOO match, if it is intended to
draw Hanlan, we do not think it will act, as the
champion is making too much money in the States.
As stated elsewhere, the Ogdensburg citizens have
subscribed no less than £4OO for the winner of the
Hanlan-Ross match. We doubt if as many shil-
lings could be raised in Sydney for a simillar object.
James Downing was found dead in the
Yarra last week. He had, when last seen, told his
brother-in-law that he had called at a Bourke-
street shop, where a certain person advertised a
sweep on the races, but was told by a man there
that the sweep-maker was out, nor did he know
when he would be back. He also pointed out a
box on which were the sweep records, &c. The
sweep-promoter has not been seen at the office
since, and the coroner has instructed a detective
to try and open the box with one of the deceased's
keys. The above par. may be interesting to those
who patronize sweeps. The real sweep is generally
the man who promotes the sweep itself, and the
sweep is properly so-called because he makes a
clean sweep of his constituents’ coin.
The committee of the Tasmanian Turf
Club have disqualified Mr. C. 8. Agnew and his
horses for twelve months from 25th June, on
account of some warm remarks made by him with
respect to the dismissal of the protest against
Rhesus, the declared winner of the late Launceston
Cup. Mr. Agnew has “ bucked ” at the disqualifi-
cation, and written to the press, stating that he is
compelled to take legal proceedings against the
stewards and committee in order to clear his
character before the public. He appeals to all
racing clubs In Australia to withhold endorsing the
decision of the Tasmanian T.C. until the matter
has been decided by the Supreme Court of Tas-
mania. The Tasmanian Racing Club has refused
to endorse the disqualification.
In the Commons there was strong oppo-
sition to adjourning over the Derby Day, Sir W.
Lawson especially being very bitter in his remarks.
He said: “From the time of William 111. unti
now, in all legislation concerning gambling, betting
had been described as ‘unlawful and deceitful,
contributing very much to the encouragement of
idleness and impoverishment of the people ;’ and
the law, as laid down in the act passed in the year
1868, was as follows: ‘Every person playing or
betting by way of wagering in any street, road,
highway, or other open or public place, or in any
Elace to which the public have or are permitted to
ave access, shall be deemed a rogue and a vaga-
bond within the true intent and moaning of the
recited act, and as such may be convicted and
punished under the provisions of the act.’ He did
not think the House ought to adjourn in recogni-
tion of a sport which attracted * rogues and vaga-
bonds.’ ” The motion for adjournment was even-
tually carried by 185 to 85.
Lord Charles Beresford, has had a bout
with Jem Mace, without gloves, and has completely
whipped the veteran, according to newspaper
accounts. The Prince of Wales and a great many
“ bloods ” were present, Lord Charles having pre-
viously expressed to the heir apparent his convic-
tion that “an English gentleman could always
beat a professional pugilist.” All this reads very
nicely indeed, and will be swallowed without the
slightest pinch of salt by a great many who believe
that it is better to have “ blue blood ” than muscle.
Not satisfied with thrashing Mace, whom “ho
knocked about terribly,” Lord Charles offered to
smash Slade, who “seemed completely cast down
at the defeat of his tutor.” Slade didn’t accept.
What reasonable man could expect that he would
do so ? Now that Lord Charles has so completely
subdued the wily Jem, and wiped out the big
Maori, he will be able to properly “ patronise ” the
pair, and in England the patronage of Lord Charles
Beresford and the Prince of Wales means a great
deal. If Lord Charles wants to show us Austra-
lians that he really can h >ld his own with Mace or
Slade, let him trot out and knock down a man
whom we know will fight—Mr. Arthur Somerset,
the holder of last year’s heavy-weight Queensberry
Cup, who learned his boxing in Australia.
At the quarterly meeting of the Sydney
Mercantile Rowing Club, the following motion
was unanimously carried:—“That this meeting
views with more regret than astonishment the
action of the Rowing Association in reference to
the Krug Cup, an action which they consider crude,
puerile, unjust, and unsportsmanlike. They
further recommend in the Interest of aquatics the
withdrawal of the Mercantile Rowing Club from
the New South Wales Rowing Association.” It is
rumoured that the Glebe Rowing Club will follow
suit. People outside Sydney, perhaps, don’t under-
stand what these squabbles mean. Well, plainly
stated, the trouble is this: The N.S.W. Rowing
Association is pretty well controlled by the
“gentlemen amateur” element, and in the Mer-
cantile Rowing Club there are a good many people
who, while they apparently possess the entire
sympathy of their co-members, aren’t regarded by
the “ high-toned ” Rowing Club (the S.R.C.) as by
any means gentlemen amateurs in the strict sense
of the term. For instance, Brett, who is, or was, a
publican, isn’t looked upon as the same kind of
“ gentleman amateur ”as a bank clerk is. In fact,
the quarrel is merely another edition of Melbourne
v. Footscray.
To the editor of the Bendigo Advertiser :
—“ In your issue of Tuesday last you copy a para-
graph from the World, stating that Blackburn by
his refusal to accept the terms offered i.y Miller on
Friday night, had backed out of the match origi-
nally made. Now, sir, the paragraph quoted refutes
this assertion. The original match was for £IOO
aside, and now Miller wants to go for the receipts
only, which was not agreed to in the first place.
Again, Miller did not come up to the scratch on the
23rd instant, as agreed upon, the excuse being that
he had sprained his wrist in his encounter with
Foley. This may have been the case, but Miller
could not have been so very bad when he could
perform with dumb bells, fence, and box with
Jack Thompson at the Princess’ Theatre. Of course
the affair was for his own benefit, all to gain and
nothing to lose, which might not have been the
case had he wrestled with Blackburn. In conclu-
sion, to prove that Blackburn has not ‘ backed
out, I can inform Miller that he is prepared to
wrestle him five falls for £IOO aside, two Graeco-
'loman, two Cumberland, the odd fall ‘catch-as-
you-can,’ the first man down losing. If this match
is made, and nothing could be fairer, a deposit will
have to be made of £25, in order that the ‘ backer
out ’ may contribute towards the expense incurred
by (he other man, such not being the case on the
last occasion, when Blackburn left work to go into
training.” This letter seems straightforward and
manly- j
The N. S. Wales Rowing Association have
decided by eight votes to seven that the protest
lodged by Brett in connection with the Champagne
Cup race should not be upheld. Although agreeing
with the verdict, we are under the impression that
the Association made a mistake in settling the
dispute, as the race was in the hands of the umpire
from start to tinish. At the recent meeting of the
Association Mr. Benson said that he was so intently
watching Gaden and Brett, between whom he con-
sidered a foul Imminent, that he did not see Mid-
dleton go inside the beacon, but this statement
seems somewhat absurd in view of the iact that
at the point in question there was a clear length
of daylight between the two boats. At the finish
of the race Brett, to our knowledge, was quite
satisfied he had been defeated, and pointed to a
hole in the canvas of his boat as the cause of it.
The protest was not sent in till late that night.
Allowing that Middlot n went inside the beacon, by
the strict letter of the law he should have been dis-
qualified, but if the umpire did noi see him leave
the course, in the name of thunder whose
word is to be taken that he did. In our
opinion Mr. Benson shirked the responsibility
thrown upon him, as, in an amateur race,
allowing that a competitor went inside the mark,
an umpire would be perfectly justified in
awarding him the race if he considered the devia-
tion in the race did not effect the result. Middleton
could not have made much by the slip, or surely
the umpire would have noticed It. All things con-
sidered, perhaps it would have been as well if Mr.
Benson had acceded to the wishes of the com-
petitors and allowed someone else to fill the position
of umpire. We have now h«d quite enough of
these miserable fiascos on the part of umpires and
referees. The final decision should, whenever pos-
sible, be given on the spot. Let us in future go for
umpires with backbone.
The Sullivan-Mitchell tight was short but
lively. When time was called, bo<h pugilist went
right to work. Sullivan, in his usual off-hand,
rushing style, dashed in at Mitchell as if to annihi-
late him, swinging left and right with tremendous
quickness and determination, expecting to 1 nd a
terrific steam-hammer blow on the English cham-
pion’s neck and end the contest. Mitchell electrified
the crowd in the first round by a aeries of now i ing
tactics, and landed his left with terrible force
several times on the “mark,” which must have
made the champion feel anything but easy, and
then when the champion would again swing his
right, hoping to knock Mitchell out, the English-
man would evade the terrible dangerous mows,
and make a grand rally. Sullivan followed Mitchell
up all over the stage, sending in tremendous blows,
many of which landed, but not on the spot in-
tended, but he managed to knock him down several
times. Mitchell also knocked Sullivan down-
clean off his pins, and it was the cleanest knock-
down ever seen. The first round ended at the
expiration of the snecitted three minutes without
either having the advantage. In the second round
Sullivan knocked Mitchell around a Id Tug Wilson,
and fought Mitchell to the ropes, and knocked him
down. Mitchell fell over the ropes off the stage,
injuring his back, and his friends looked blue.
In the third round Sullivan forced the fighting, and
several times he floored Mitchell, but the plucky
pugilist, who was overmatched, gamely faced the
music. Finally, after a grand rally and any amount
of slogging, Sullivan bored Mitchell to the ropes,
fought him down and fell on top of him. Mitchell
was apparently dazed when he got up, but was
going to continue, when Captain Williams jumped
on the stage and stopped the affair. The only pos-
sibility of Sullivan’s winning was by a “ knock-out
blow,” against which Mitchell exercised every pre-
caution. Mitchell’s display of new rlni tactics and
science fully equalled in brilliancy what had been
anticipated by us. and he fully confirmed the high
opinion entertained of him as a boxer, showing
himself to be a very clever two-handed fighter, and
one of the hardest and most punishing hitters for
his size ever seen in the ring; cool and collected,
he was eve ready to take advantage of any mis-
take of an opening presented by Sullivan, while
his garaeness was indisputable. Sullivan’s avoir-
dupois, however, was too much for the plucky
Englishman; but he failed to knock him out, and
it is an open question whether he would have done
so If the mill had been finished. The receipts were
estimated at $16,006. Charles Mitchell was born
21st Noverhber, 1861, so that he is a little over 31
years of age. He stands 5 ft. 8* in. in height, and
would weigh in condition 1511 b. The N. Y. Clipper
says that 11,000 were present. Sullivan, who stands
but 5 ft. in. in height, weighed U st. 4 lb.
Sullivan led off with the left, but the Brit'sher
threw his head on one side, and countered prettily
on the breast. After some light work, Sullivan
dashed in left and right, the latter bringing his
opponent to earth. Some half arm work was then
indulged in, and to the astonishment of Sullivan’s
friends Mitchell planted his right straight and
squarely on the chin, fairly knocking the American
on to his seat. This was treatment to which Sul-
livan was entirely unused, and h i was more than
nettled when he instantly picked himself up, and
rushed at Mitchell, who retreated before him, and,
being unable to stop himself, the Boston Boy came
with force against one of the middle stakes,
the collision producing a big red spot on the
breast. After this nothing startling occurred
btfore the expiration of the three minutes.
Round two needs little description. Mitchell
got weak early in the round, and Sullivan
knocked him down with his terrible right. Mitchell
came up dazed and made a show of fight, but the
American watched his opportunity, and again
getting in his right, knocked the little ’un com-
pletely off the stage, and time was called before
he could be assisted on again. Although the
American champion had done the bulk of the
lighting, he was in good trim when they came up
for the third time, and a look of extreme confi-
dence overspread his features. On the other hand,
Mitchell was shaky, and the expression on his
countenance told plainer than words that he was
satisfied he had undertaken a task he was physi-
cally incapable of accomplishing. He, however,
game as a pebble, advanced spryly to the centre,
and led off with the left, which didn’t connect, and
as he retreated he escaped two intended favours.
Sullivan advanced as his adversary fell back, and
planted a good left-hander on the face, to which
Mitchell feebly replied with the right close to the pit
of the stomach, then seized and clung to Sully.
Upon loosing hold, Mitchell sent the right on the
ribs, but the blow had no steam in it. Sullivan got
within distance and put in left and right, sending
the plucky Birmingham lad down again. No
sooner had he with ilficulty got upon his feet
again and put up his hands, than Sully set about
him, trying to administer a finisher with the right,
the blow knocking the British champion off his
pins near the ropes and close to his own corner.
He seemed bewildered and scarcely able to stand
when he struggled to his feet once more; and, it
being apparent to all that he was not able longer
to continue the unequal contest, the police put a
stop to the proceedings.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
A fencing match is being an anged in Mel-
bourne between Miller and Victor, for £5O, the
Professor to concede his opponent 10 points in 21. ..
Politt ly says a New Zealand exchange: “ Forrester
ought to judge one more light, and then crawl up
under somebody’s house and die.” Darebin’s
brother Motea has been put to the stud Mr. M.
Deery has expressed his intention of presenting
the next Tattersall’sCup, value 100 p-uineas.. .That
handy little pamphlet, “ Centaur’s Index,” came
out within twenty-four hours of the declaration of
weights for the Spring Handicap Claptrap has
sprung a curb.. .The Narrabri J.C. has appointed
W. C. Quinton as handicapper. Mr. Quinton now
handicaps for 21 race meetings Racehorse
Mussulman has died at Casino from the effects of
burns received in its stable. Owner offers £2OO for
the-dscovery of the incendiary ...Messrs. W. C.
Yuilleand Co. held a sale of thoroughbred stock
at Kirk's Bazaar, Melbourne, but only a few horses
were disposed of. Illusion and Colstoun were sold
privately to Mr. Leek for 1000 guineas. Coriolanus
was p it up and bought in at 530 guineas... That
Ad Valorem has been scratched for several Sydney
races is probably due to the fact that N.S.w. is a
free-trade colony ...Nesbitt defeated Moyse in a
hundred yards’ spin at Wagga, for £25 a side
Eugene Donovan, the champion light-weight boxer
of Auckland, N.Z., recently met Harris, the cham-
pion heavy-weight of Northern Wairoa, at Darga-
ville. They fought four rounds of 3 rni 1 min.
time, and Donovan easily defeated him, though
Harris weighs about 13st., and Donovan 10st. 71b. .
At Inverell Mr. Allen Thorley has won Alderman
Buxton's prize cup for pigeon shooting The
Edwards-o'Leary combination show will com-
mence at the Melbourne Exhibition Building, on
August 6th—Mr. Mathew Bryant, previous to
purchasing Bosworth, offered Mr. de Mestre 3000
guineas for Navigator, which was refused
Sniveller, the horse who won no less than 33 races,
has gone to the stud at Bailark, Morrison’s, Vic....
Slow Tom, who was lately disqualified at Bourkfe,
has been purchased by a Mr. warren, and recently
ran in a sweepstakes against Dollar and Edith, and
beat them. The weights were 12st each, and
owners were up Mr. M’Kenna has purchased
Napoleon for £IOO Zambesi is to go to Queens-
land for stud purposes The disqualification of
Old Jack, Laurence, his trainer, and E. M‘Gee his
nominator, by the Parkos Jockey Club, has been
endorsed by the V.R.C... The Sydney betting fra-
ternity have removed from Punch’s to Hunt’s
hotel—Brlddlck and Ridley play handball at
Hamilton against Thompson and Lees, for £BS
a-side, on 4th August; Briddlck to play with his
right hand, and Ridley with his left, against their
opponents’ two hands Sydney Chess Club
formed last week; P. B. Walker, president; C. Do-
lohery hon. sec. and treasurer Kosciusco, who
won the N.Z. Grand National Steeplechase In May
last, was sold the other week for 30 guineas
At Wagga the Albury footballers defeated the
local team on Saturday last Footrace at Ray-
mond Terrace on Saturday lust, between Fred.
Jennings, a half-caste, and Thomas Sutton, 150
yards, for £lO aside. Jennings won rattier easily
by four yards—Parramatta defeated the Glebe
footballers on Wentworth Park, Saturday last
James Anlezark, of Parramatta, backs himself to
pick oranges against all-comers for a sum ranging
from £SO too £loo—The Auckland Stud Company
have entered thirteen colts and fillies for the Gee-
long Kacing Club’s Foal Stakes of 1885. The lot
include youngsters by Musket, Cap-a-pie, Cadogan,
and Leolinus the dames being Sylvia, Onyx,
Titania, Lyra, Petroleuse, and other aristocratic
mares.
» # •
Mr. “ Plunger ” Walton has had a grand
sale at his St. James's Hotel, New York, at which
all his furniture was disposed of. He has now
ceased to be the landlordofthehou.se .. Haitian
and Ross are matched to row on 18th July, at
Ogdensburg (U.S.), four miles with a turn, for £3OO
aside, and £4OO subscribed by the Ogdensburg citi-
zens... Prudhomrae, the crack hurdle racer, has
been sold for 3000 guineas to Mr. F, Robinson, of
Chantilly ...The London Tricycle Club’S 100 Miles
Road Race took place on Whit Monday, and re-
sulted in favour of A. F. Nixon, who covered the
distance in lOhrs, 38miu. 15sec. ..The University
cricket match between Oxford and Cambridge re-
sulted in a win for the latter by seven wickets.
The Studd family is well represented by a young
member, A. H„ who in a match for Eton against
an eleven captained by C. I. Thornton, made ft 5....
W. Beckwith and his sister, Miss Beckwith, have
gone over to America, to give a series of tank
swimming entertainments. Capt. Webb has also
gone over again, and means, he says, to have an-
other contest with Beck with.... Paddy Ryan has
challenged John L. Sullivan to box him four three-
minute rounds, either in New York or Chicago
agreeing that the winner of the contest shall re-
ceive 60 per cent, of the receipts.. . A folding-
match took place on April 35, at the Bxaminkk
mailing-rooms, San Francisco, for a purse of $35
between Charles Flynn and Frank Reddy. Flynn
won. folding, it is stated, 500 papers in 13m‘in. 36sec.;
Reddy finishing In 13mln. 4fisec. Another match
was immediately made for $35 a side. 1000 papers. ...
John L. Sullivan, the American bruiser, states
that the hemorrhage he suffered from came from
the stomach, and not the lungs. As John had had
a week “ on the bust,” and wnen 111 was under the
impression that there was a strange man in the
house, although assured to the contrary, it is more
than likely he was suffering from an attack of D.T ,
which would account for his rapid recovery
John S. Prince, the American bicyclist, has offered
to ride a race against a trotter, 00 miles, even, for
£IOO a side—The twelve-hour-per-day race, for
which Charley Rowell trained so carefully, fell
through for the reason that Littlewood was the
oniy other competitor able to raise the stake, £IOO.
... The groat 10-mile foot race for £IOO and the
championship of America, between Charles Price,
the ex-champion of England, and Win. Steele, of
Glasgow, Scotland, was decided on the Manhattan
grounds, New York, May 19. Steele won easily
George W. Lee, of Nowmark, N.J., and Edward
Hanlan rowed double sculls on the Harlem ri< er,
N.Y., on April 31, and attracted a large crowd of
boat men.


F
UKNITUEE SHOW ROOMS*.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS, and*
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT. Bradley,.
Newton, and Lamb.
TtYbRARY FUI&ITURE, CENTRE and SIDE'
Ij TABLES BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb, Furniture Importers, Spring and
O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite.
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &e.,
VERY ELEGANT, Just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
NOVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
AFTERNOON TEA TABLES, elegant and Inex-
pensive. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell-street.
MARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms,
ILLIARD TABLES, full size, with appurten-
ances : also smaller Convertible Tables, 7 and
8 foet-may be used as dining tables. Now on view.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, Importers, Spring
and O’Connell streets, Sydney
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at lowest prices. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Importers,
O’Connell-street.
EDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
Bconomle Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY,
NEWTON, and LAMB. O’Connell-street.
HEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 20s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, fram 355; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from 10s6d; Tables,from7s6d: Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20s: Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 265; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
85s.
BRADLEY,:
NEWTON,
and LAMB,
SYDNEY.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs In Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
URNITtrilE— The Largest Stock in the
Colony. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell-street.
kRAWING-HOOM CABINETS—EarIy English,
Chippendale designs.
streets.
DINING-ROOM FURNITURE. Magnificent
Suites in Walnut, Oak, and Mahogany. Side-
boards, Dinner Waggons, &e., to match. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O’Connell streets.
Framework for drawing and dining'
ROOM FURNITURE, Handsome and Massive,
in Oak, Walnut and Mahogany. The VERY BEST
REAL MOROCCO SKINS, and Materials for up-
holstery. Open to inspection, BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB.
BDSTEADB, niekel-plated and black and brass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
ED DING.—AII descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Cou-
lell-street.
ABHSTANDS, with marble, 25s.each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
ARDEN SEATS and Verandah Chairs. —Brad-
ley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street-
B
W
Gr
BENTWOOD FURNITURE—A very complete
Assortment Just opened; many quite new,
designs.
OCCASIONAL CHAIRS in VERY GREAT
Variety, Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c., Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-strect.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &0., Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb, O’Oonnell-street.
ICE CHESTS, all sizes, very superior make. Ex-
amine before purchasing. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
IRON SAFES, various sizes. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
TEINWAYNEW YORK PIANOS, the FINEST
in the world. A SHIPMENT Just landed.
s
OQ GUINEA PIANO, WARRANTED sound
and durable, in solid walnut case; specially
adapted for beginners or schools.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
GUINEA PIANO, brilliant toned, full com-
OU pass, all the latest improvements, in hand-
some walnut case ; WARRANTED SOUND and
DURABLE ; BEST VALUE in the trade.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
T IPP’S CELEBRATED PIANOS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB
have received
another LARGE SHIPMENT
of
R. LIPP and SONS’ celebrated PIANOFORTES
direct from the Makers, comprising TALL
GRANDS, LITTLE UPRIGHT GRANDS, SA-
LOON GRANDS, VERY HANDSOME and of the
HIGHEST CLASS FINISH,
WALNUT and BLACK GOLD.
WE HAVE NOW THE LARGEST STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA OF
LIPP’S PIANOS
TO SELECT PROM.
WE INVITE INSPECTION.
FOR PRIVATE SALE AT EXTREMELY LOW
PRICES.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Pianoforte Importers.
O’Connell and Spring streets.
SOCIAL.
A startling fashion has appeared in Paris;
it is nothing more nor less than wearing white
wigs by ladies who have passed their first youth,
and are determined thus to take time by the fore-
lock. Instead of waiting for their locks to bo
blanched to a becoming grey, they simply antici-
pate nature, and add to the freshness of their
skins and the brilliancy of their eyes by an entire
whitening. The hair-dressers are jubilant at the
change, and hope the wig may come into general
fashion.
* * *
Here is a new and entirely original joke.
When you’re Invited to a wedding and perceive
“ R.S.V.P." In the corner of the card, don t forget
that it means “ Respondcz silver-plate ” (electro
butter-dishes, fish-slices, et cetera).
• • ■
Among the alterations in dancing with
fashionables at home, it is now said that the polka,
the schottische, and the waltz are to give place to
the German liindler and the polonaise, as danced at,
the German court. A dance called the cournei.c,
which has been a favourite dance in Vienna, has
also been introduced at the English court ball, and
is expected to become popular. As regards
Americans, they want a change. They say that
anything that displaces the wild and reckless
hullabaloo of the racquet will be welcome. Of all
dancing it is the -cost barbarous, and it a stately
and respectable style of dance comes in again, it
might take away some of the fun, excitement,
fatigue, and immorality ot the wilder dances, but
it will substitute temper and grace. Both ot them
are now needed in the average ball-room.
• • •
A lady writes: “ No sooner did the time
for the Ladies’ Evening Lieflertafel Concert draw
near, than numbers of unlucky applicants tor
tickets found P mpossible, barely an hour after
the time tixed * ssiie. to get one for money—no,
nor even for Ladies would even love any-
one who woul In' or get them the coveted card.
And this because ydnev does not possess a con-
cert-room of decent dimensions. Does the Idea ever
dimly dawn on our citizens that this lovely city is
all behind? Melbourne boasts of several tine
buildings where one can hear and enjoy music in
comfort, and feel that one’s effort in the dress
department have a chance of their reward—ad-
miration. Wli. ieas, at the Protestant Hall, the
consciousness of bei i well-dressed is all that the
wearer’s most faultiest et-up can hope for, when
people are packed like wooden matches, virtue
has to bo Its own and on i v reward; unless, perhaps,
iust a becoming and modest little blush at the self-
consciousness of such merit. H or the circum-
stances, to dream of ladies "'g music, is a
dream, and nothing more. W have to live in
hope. But old age is stealing o us, and we fear
we shall have ceased to distract <■ gentle minds
with doubt, as to what shade bes ecomes our
complexions, before the powers wake . i in sleepy
Sydney.”
• • •
Mr. D. Murray, as hon. sec. of the M.R.C.
ball, deserves public thanks. Herbert Smith, a
lawyer’s clerk, got drunk at the ball, and being
“well-connected,” no doubt considered he had a
right to do so with freedom. He was somewhat
surprised when, with a friend, he was summarily
assisted out of the building for using blackguard
language. His surprise was considerably heightened
when Mr. Dillon lined him &o, and id os. costs.
His lawyer explained that he was a very respect-
able” young man. No doubt. These incidents
occur, not only at public balls, but in private
parties, which are favoured with the presence of
these “very respectable” young men; and they
occur not seldom, but the young men generally
escape through a mistaken feeling of chanty.
However, Smith’s friend is lucky that his name
also is not published. The remark of a .outcra-
norarv, that the committee ‘ should be more strict
m allowing such individuals as Smith to mix, Ac.,
is. though well meant, a singular evidence of
idiocy. A committee can scarcely be expected to
tell by looking at a man whether he is going to get
drunk, or what sort of language ho is likely to use.
The committee wore exceedingly careful.
* * *
The “ Ladies’ Evening ” given by the
Liedertafel on Tuesday was not unworthy of the
antecedents of that excellent musical society. A
capital orchestra, led by Herr Francik, rendered
the overture to “ William Tell ” in first-class style.
The "cello in the opening part was little short of
perfection. Much disappointment was felt when
it was announced that, on account of the piano
not being tuned to concert pitch, Signor Giammona
would be compelled to decline to play his flute
solo—and, later in the evening, Mr. M'Quade
for the same reason substituted a pianoforte
solo in place of the Hondo in E which it was
Intended he should play with the orchestra.
With proper care and attention these disappoint
ments could easily be avoided. Herr Patek is a
rare acquisition to the society, his 'cello solo being
one of the gems of the concert. The grand march,
“ Turkish Patrol,” was another. It opened pianis-
simo as if far distant, and the gradual crescendo on
its seeming approach was very lino. The oboes had
a few sparkling bars, which were very tolling.
Messrs. Morgan and Gee sang solos, but both have
been hoard m better voice. Towards the end of
the concert Signor Giorza volunteered to play a
pianoforte solo, as so much had been omitted from
the programme. This was evidently played to suit
popular (and not classical) taste. His piano duet
with Mr. M'Quade was well received, as, indeed, it
should be, as it was announced on the programme
that it would be the last appearance at the society’s
concerts of each of these popular ai’tists prior to
their departure for Europe. The part-singing of
the Liedertafel was quite up to the mark, which is
very high indeed. The vocal waltz, arranged and
composed tor the society by Mr. Edwaros, was
certainly pretty, if not strikingly fresh. Space
forbids a more lengthy notice, which the merits of
the concert most undoubtedly deserve. The
Liedertafel concer s give a rare opportunity for
the display of handsome dresses, and ladies don’t
neglect to avail themselves of it. Last Tuesday
night they wore, if possible, more than usually
gorgeous. A pure white satin, with perfectly
fitting bodice, on a nice figure, with deep crimson
flowers at the throat, was pretty. This season
tints are worn of a deeper shade. The beautiful
pale blue so much worn last year has now given
place to a hue nearly as deep as the eld “ Royal.”
Pink, however, seems the favourite colour. One
dress tne other night was a beautiful brochti satin,
cut low, with elbow sleeves; the low bodice was
edged with pink and cream roses and soft lace.
Two sisters in black velvet, with crimson flowers
in the hair, looked well. A peculiar, but strjking.
dress was a cream silk, with cut-away bodice of
crimson satin, and cream flowers from the waist
to the throat. A simple, but pretty, dress was a
white muslin, with bands of ribbon velvet edging
the flounces and round the throat. A Veliotropo
satin well became a handsome dark lady ; the
trimmings were lace and pearls. A young lady
with short hair curled close to the head was attired
in a pale cream satin, wlih beautiful cream and
crimson flowers fastened to the left shoulder. The
bunches of flowers worn on the shoulder and at
tv. throat are larger than ever. A pretty picture
W .s a '■vlph-liko form in a black Spanish lace dress
cut -mure, and short sleeves; round her waistwaa
a st el a d silver zone, with ornaments en suite. A
dec i„h blue silk, with shoulder bow and long ends
of s one coloured ribbon, was stylish. Pearl oma-
meu(s are much worn in the hair, especially when
the new style of bunching the latter high on the
head is adopted.
m • m
But three months ago last Wednesday Mr.
wifli tho oldest daughter of the Honorable John
Marks. M.L c! at St Mark’s Church Sydney. The
affair was one of the most b rill iant ever .®? e u *5
this eitv —it was everything which wealth and
beauty could make it, and there were not a tew
who envied the rich young
beautiful bride as they went off by the San n mn
cisco mail-boat on their wbdding tour. But now
it is telegraphed from England that the wite or
three months is a widow —that her husband, who
was only hi his 33rd year, died of brain-congestion
bos e t° of all hoalth and Ud sph-its, and entbusiastl-
fiSethiS fitS'SSSST
was°destined never to be realised. Many even
saddercases occur, of which the people hear
Ithe 1 the ? d irestvementT; but aIT
late’ laid his hand on several youthful successors
Pi
strangest fact in connection with these raelancho y
nc.Mirrenecs is that the three were proverbially
steady and two of them looked upon as excep-
thmallV healthy and powerful men. It is thought
likely that Mr. Bayly sustained sunstroke m New
York. m 0 ,
Orange, crack city of the West, had a bril-
liaat Hospital Ball on the sth— though, cH)nsidering-
♦ b%r. iri wid nhipot some who might have gone, didn t.
Preparations occupied the attentions of milliners,
dressmakers, and storekeepers for some time past,
while the ladies provided a splendid supper, m
charge of Mrs. M* Lachlan. Hall well decorated,
fanev dress in the minority; dancing till 4 a.m.
Certain local heiresses were in much demand.
Polly in pink and blue with bells, and a handsome
Greek Girl, divided the honours. Miss M Evoy was
admirable as Ophelia, though some doubted the
correctness of the costume. A remarkable dress of
green was comment-able, if not commendable. Ihe
himdsomest in the room was the black \el\ et ana
cardinal satin worn by the popu ar nustress ot
Coomhiug Park; indeed, married ladies took tho
nalm 1 or nearly. The wife of tho last addition to
I the local lawyers looked ladylike, a* usual, m black
silk and old gold draperies. A young man with lace
on his trousers—up the seam, not round the ex-
tremities. please—was much admired, by himself.
Very pretty was the dress worn by a leading store-
keeper, of white satin, striped with pale pink roses ;
and Miss Burke was charming in pale blue. Youth
and fascination came garbed in pink from Welling-
ton; the daughter of a railway contractor, in white,
made many youths think of entering into a contract
themselves. Mrs. Field, as La Perichole, and Mrs.
O'Brien, ns a Gipsy Queen, were In good taste.-
The ball left none but pleasant memories.
There was a very fashionable ladies’ race-
meeting at Caulfield a few days back, when the
latest dress developments were exhibited by tae
Melbourne belles. One thing was the prevalence
of the severely simple redingoto shapes, quite a
distinct change from the puffy, padded, pamered
dresses. And black, rich black in satin, silk, and
velvet, predominated a good deal; called by Hum-
ming Bee a “ becoming colour, which makes good
complexions brilliant, and muddy-coloured people
passable.” The new Paisley pattern trimming
seems likely to come in, and was donned by some
fashionables. Humming Bee observes: “Crushed
strawberry was generally adopted in two ways,
and only in two. I did not see a dress, a ribbon, or
a piece of lace this colour, but I saw dozens of
crushed strawberry bonnets, and hundreds of
crushed strawberry gloves. Very many ladies pre-
sent wore gloves of this particular tint, tan and
other colours hardly being seen. • They are not
pretty-coloured gloves, they draw too much at-
tention to the hands. The necessity for being Men
yanUe will have to be insisted on, for it is impossi-
ble, wearing shrimpy, pink gloves, to conceal little
flaws, small faults, and so forth, like you can when
your gloves match your costume.” The first prize
Ladies’ Trophy was a diamond bangle bracelet,
with five very large stones set in it, and the
winner, Mrs. Sanderson, was led up by her hus-
band to the Governor’s box, who presented her
with the jewel. It was won by Ghost in a field of
■l3 horses, the largest number ever known to start
in the colony.
• •
Last Thursday, the sth July, the fourth
annual ball of the Australian Social Lodge of Free-
masons, No. 360, Irish Constitution, took place in
the Town Hall Ves l ibulc. A great many Masons
were present in full regalia, and tin display of
stars and jewels was more than usually brilliant.
Committeemen rocelveu all the guests courteously
at,the door, showing everyone exactly whereto go,
and at nine o’clock the ball commenced, to the
splendidlv-timed music of Shapter’s string ba'd.
The ball was quite a triumph, financially ; but it
must be confessed that some limbs and toes felt
just a trifle sore from their active exertions.
In fact, as a lovely girl, with a rosebud mouth, ob-
served “it’ssoretully crowded.” She meantawfully,
perhaps. It was a precarious thing for anyone not
thoroughly robust to got up when the polka was
at its height; but everyone was’genial and in good
humour, and most took the bumps as they came,
always remembering that it is more blessed to give
than’ receive on such a full floor. Bro. Andrews
was one of the smartest managers of the sots
ever seen, and worked in a most creditable manner,
assisted by one or two others. The F.G.M., J. W.
Guise, received a masonic welcome, as he walked
between two ranks up to the chair of state ; and
ladies wore regalia in the midnight quadrille. The
dear girls are never tired of bedecking themselves.
P.G.M. Guise and Mrs. S. H. Young led off in the
opening quadrille. The lady wore a very hand-
some costume of cerise satin, trimmed with striped
ecru satin, white lace, and numbers of camellias,
with charming effect. One of the best dresses was
a harmony of pale blue and dark blue, trimmed with
white beaded bordering. Miss Clark displayed a
pretty Huntress costum°, and Miss Cambridge, as
Night, in black and gold stars, was one of the
daintiest of dancers. Miss Young, in white, was
tastefully toileted as Forget-me-not, with lavish
trimmings of that flower. Two Patiences made up
their characters with ravishing completeness, and
were as attractive as a pair of magnets. Little Miss
Woolf danced featly in her tight pink, and a couple
of little M'Kenney’s in airy blue dresses were both
Mischief, in its most alluring torm. Two or three
fancy characters were very interesting, their toilets
being so arranged as to afford a most effeotiye dis-
play of what Mrs. Anderson offered to exhibit to
the S. M. Herald young man, to prove the dusti-
ness of the streets. Mr. Do Groen s dress ot a I ox-
hunter was exceedingly good, and its brilliant hue
made it conspicuous amongst the black coats.
Miguel and one or two other male personations
were carefully got up ; and it was noticed the very
common footballer?JuuJ ‘cricketersi
missing. We consider the most effecthe fancy
dress iwas that of pretty little Miss Harrison, a
Yachting costume of dark sea blue and Egyptian
red which made it pronounced, and yet it was ot
sfmpie d esig m and the sailor hat shaded a nice fair
face. In an off room a bright fire h azed, and cosy
card parties wore carried on by elderly persons ;
while the younger parties were mostlj limited to
two in number, and they shunned places where the
light was too brilliant, saying “pt fatigues the eyes
so, you know.” Young people can tbe too esu’e-
ful about their eyes. Supper was spread in the
“photo” room, where, upon the jelly-pecking
belles portraits of the Aldermen look down with
eves ’a T U abeam with disinterested patriotism.
Many of these aldermen are dead—fortunately ; but
even now it takes a strong : sou ed man to eat in
comfort while they are looking down on him he
knows they were so much better at the
business. It was close on 4 o’clock when the weary
officials went round and made sure no one was left
in the building.
* * *
At North Shore, on Thursday evening last,
Mr. and Mrs. Heron gave a most enjoyable even-
ing’s entertainment to a large number of triends.
The garden and environs were lit up with Tyrolese
lanterns in a stylo trulyfairydike. The “hello
was. either a dark young lady in blue from North
Shore or a blonde, in white, from Burwood, who
lives on love. Dancing was kept up till an early
hour.
Social continued on next page.


C °UH T
Prepared according to the directions oV Prof.
E. N. Hereford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED FOR
DYSPEPSIA. HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA. WAKEFULNESS. SEA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY, &0.
No Danger can Attend its Use.
Great Relief by Its Use.
WINSLOW LEWIS, M.D.. of Boston, the distin-
guished and popular physician, said:
“ Having in xny own person experienced those
ills for which the Acid Phosphate is proscribed, I,
having found great relief and alleviation by its
use, most cheerfully attest my appreciation of its
excellence.”
Indigestion and Rlnddcr and Kidney
Troubles.
Portland, Me., Oct. 2nd, 1880.
Hereford’s Acid Phosphate has become a favour-
ite remedy in my practice. When completely tired
out by prolonged wakefulness and overwork, it is
of the greatest value to me. I have given it in
certain forms of dyspepsia, in, all cases of nervous
exhaustion from overwork, in certain affections of
the bladder and kidneys, and have always been
satisfied with the results. I prescribe it more and
more as I become better acquainted with its pro-
perties. Of all the samples of medicine sent me
during the past dozen years, Hereford’s Acid Pho-
sphate is the only one I have ever found which has
become a necessity in my own household. Per-
haps 1 should hardly have been willing to write my
impressions of the Acid Phosphate if I had not
in my own person experienced its good effects.
C. O. FILES, M.D.
Derangement of Secretory and Nervous
Systems.
Rutland, Vt., Jan. 23,1879.
While I am exceedingly averse to giving certifi-
cates, and almost always decline to do so. yet in
the case of “ Hereford s Acid Phosphate, I am
willing to say, that, having used it very consider-
ably, I can testify to its great value in functional
derangements of the secretory and nervous sys-
tems. CHAB. WOODHOUBE, M.D.
W~ Pamphlets, with full information as to the
wonderful curative properties of Horford’s Acid
Phosphate, furnished free on application to
BARRON, MOXHAM & CO., SYDNEY.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
“ It Works like a Charm.’*
It is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water q uenches lire. It cures
Fprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Bruises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an internal remedy it tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Save Throat, and Dyp.
therla.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAG IC
OIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use in
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers in
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported into this country, and have
gained throughout the colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. 1
leather, and the upholstery is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their Crush
BECAUSE they are each and all built under special
instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage builders in America,
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say they are the
BEST.
American Carriage Emporium,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
BARBOwfMOXHAM & CO.,
Bole Agents,
To-morrow, Friday, the last Rowing Club
ball of the season (Balmain 8.C.) occurs In the
City Town Hall, under patronage of the local
Mayor and aldermen. The confidence in Mr. Ains-
worth’s management is shown by the way in
which the tickets have been cheerfully snapped up,
and it Is sure to be nice.
* * *
The frequent festivitivea in the way of
picnics, banquets, and balls, given by Mr. John
Harris during his mayoralty, have roused the spirit
of gratitude. It is meet the Mayor’s hospitality
should be recognized, and a committee of well-
known persons has therefore been formed to
devise what shape the complimentary return to
Mr. and Mrs. Harris shall take.
• * •
On the 4th inst., St. James’ was crowded
by the “perfesh,”et autre*, to witness the marriage
of Mr. Allan Cargo.' The bride, who is prettv,
looked very so, in dcru satin skirt trimmed with
chenille, broohe panier bodice, orange wreath and
chatelaine, and long veil only on the back of her
graceful head. Four bridesmaids assisted—two in
book muslin, trimmed blue and cardinal, two
in cream nun’s veiling, trimmed Spanish lace and
cardinal, all prettily made. Among the guests'
dresses, some were both modish and handsome,
especially a claret brochti velvet, finely fitting a
tall lady; a white satin, broohd trimming, princess
bonnet, with plaid; two wine-coloured satins,
cream plush hats, and feathers with pearl pins; and
a black satin with sulphur tinted broclu 1 . Break-
fast at Compagnoni’s, when Richmond Thatcher
proposed the toast. After separating, the party
gathered again and danced the evening out at the
ulletin Hotel. The bride was Miss L. E. Smith
(stage name Raymond), late of the Opera House
troupe, and sister-in-law of Mr. Thatcher. Honey-
moon first to Blue Mountains, then to Hobart, and
then Allan will ship his Cargo home.
• * •
At the fourth Bachelors’ Assembly, Niths-
dale, about 140 were present, all In the morning of
life; and strange to say, the fairer ones were the
scarcer, consequently a few gentleman had to fall
back on the study of doodesque attitudes in the
conservatory, or wander into dim regions with the
solacing cigar. Refreshments and music were alike
excellent as usual, and there was scarcely an Indif-
ferent dancer there, Some, indeed, being superb,
notably, a young lady in black and blue, with a
llower-like name. Black was quite in favour, at
least six of the prettiest girls choosing it, either
with or without coloured trimmings. A choice
cream satin was from Balmain, a pale salmon and
net (very catching net) from Paddington, a hand-
some ruby velvet imd satin from Redfern, and two
terracottas were like flowerpots. Because of
their colour? Not at all; but because they con-
tained flowers. A gem of a ball dress was worn
by a stately girl, white satin bodice, cut low
and sleeveless, with white net skirt gathered
and frilled, the whole of most fashionable shapeli-
ness. The Mayor’s presidency has been solicited
for the new series of Assemblies, commencing i
next month, and nearly all the members are al-
ready enrolled.
• • *
If the sham Mohawks had not jettisoned
that tea in Boston harbour in 1773. probably we
should have missed a rather good ball in 1883. That
was a long time ago, before the Americans got
frivolous; before they grew too sesthetlc to see
beauty in the Illy—or took to playing poker and
making wooden nutmegs—or allowed Jay Gould to
heap together about as much money as would buy
Australia. But they have progressed since then:
they paint stars and Stripes all over George and
Pitt streets; go to picnics armed with little flags,
and push trade generally. We have got one of
them to gouge out our cartoons. And they are
gay; must needs have a ball, and charge top price
tor tickets: all done in style, with their belles shin-
ing in raiment calculated to “ kill ” anything of an
ordinary kind. It was quite “away up.” Kopfl’s
band was engaged, and gave faultless music, and
the dancing floor was under the direction of Messrs.
Needs, junr., that is, Hilliar and Ernest, who man-
aged everything capitallv. Decorations by Tornlng
were rather elaborate, national flags of all kinds,
baskets of flowers, garlands, and so on; and the City
Catering Co. furnished the supper as usual In ex-
cellent style. Cloak and onb arrangements wore
also seen to. Programmes were beautifully printed
by Batson and Atwater, shield shape, with two
brown eagles and the American banner (coloured)-
on the back, while on the face (printed in gold and
brown) were the Australian arms to one side and
the British to the other. Largo wall-prqgrammes
were also exhibited, showing against eachuance its
exact hour, which was adhered to almost to the
minute all through the night, finishing at 3 a.m.
Proceedings opened at nine o’clock with a Grand
March, and ten waltzes in all were given. Over
two hundred people attended; a number of com-
plimentary tickets had been sent out, and many
men of weight and influence were present—on
such an occasion, in fact, the two go together: we
never knew a man of weight who did not carry a
good deal of influence in a ball-room. Several
members of the Ministry honoured the occasion,
and the walls were lined with representative faces.
Both Sir Henry and Sir John were there, their
white heads conspicuous among all the rest. Nei-
ther danced, though Sir John was distinctly ob-
served inspecting ladies’ programmes, and even
wrote his name on that of one of the handsomest
dames present. It isn’t every day that “ John R.”
is found on a ball programme, and we are willing
to wager that the fair owner, who so cunningly ob-
tained the veteran's autograph, will keep that card
treasured up in a very careful place. Mss Parkes,
m an ornate costume of cardinal satin trimmed
with lace and flowers, participated in the whirl;
and Mr.'Charles Kahlo, the American Consul, was
often seen in the vortex of the waltzers, whenever
not engaged in doing the honours to others. And
as he was doing this from ten o’clock Wednesday
morning till after three on Thursday morning,
ho had a long spell on duty, and did it well;
so everyone said. The Hon. G. H. Reid danced
his share, and was popular among the pret-
tiest girls, whom with his usual sagacity in
this respect, he always manages to discover; and
the towering Treasurer, although ho protested he
could not dance, was caught earnestly endeav-
ouring to prosecute a polka. Ah I but who
wouldn't —with Miss Louise Davenport ? whose
charming figure, in a trained dross of bln ok broche
velvet, satin and lace, was often the chief “ cyno-
sure of admiring eyes”—especially when she was
guided by partners more adept at threading the
devious waltz than the Hon. G.R. Mr. Dan.
O’Connor was there, Mr. B. O. Holtermann, Mr.
John Davies, Mrs. and Mr. Alex. Brown, Belgian
Consul at Newcastle; Mrs. and Mr. Henry Law,
U.S. Consular Agent; and the Hon. R. D. Woods,
of Massachusetts. Mr. W. E. Sheridan’s well-knit-
manly form appeared at a late hour, but only as
an onlooker; and exrGeneral Bennett, of the U.S.
Army, did a little light skirmishing. Generals
don t tread Needs’ floor every day, Mr. C. A.
Goodchap was as un-tram-melled as anyone
among the ladies, and very careful of any
accident to their “ trains ; ” and Mr. Thomas
Richards, also his daughter, took the floor nearly
every time. There couldn’t be any fitter place
than a dancing floor for an Inspector of stamps.
Mr. Critchett Walker did not display his usual
terpsichorean brilliancy; while the Hons. B.
Barton, J. B. Watt, and P. M. Darley all formed
part of the mural decorations. Dresses wore very
fine, and the opening march, led off by Mr. and
Mrs. Kahlo, Mr. T. H. Boyd and Miss Walker, gave
a good chance for inspection. They were in every
colour and style; purposely so, no doubt, to show
the ladies’love of “independence.” If any feature
was more striking than another, it was the quantity
of crushed strawberry worn, in all its varied tints
and fabrics; and. as the room was full, some of it
was very striking, and very much crushed.
Another feature was that numbers of ladles dis-
played the American colours on some part of their
toilet, either in little flags or ribbon streamers;
and, in one case, a stars and bars necktie gave
evidence of boyish patriotism. Some wore im-
mense flowers on the shoulder, big as a plate;
and a stylishly handsome dress, worn by Mrs. Moul-
ton—a sleeveless, long-trained, heliotrope brochti
embellished with snowy ostrich plumes—had the
American emblem worked on a mauve velvet
tablier, the eagle, colours, and motto, “E Pluribm
If num,” in silk, pearls, and pink coral beading. Mrs.
L. A. Little also wore an elaborate and picturesque
costume, of shrimp pink plush, and white satin
skirt, having the national design displayed on its
front, with details of trimming which helped to
make tho emernbt* richly gay. Mrs. H. 8. Chipraan
wasnlquantly handsome in a toilet also noticeable
for its richness—ruby velvet, With ruff in Eliza-
bethan Style, ridged shoulders, with let-in puffs Of
pink satin, skirt falling away in front to show close
rows of blush pink lace. The stylo of drawing the
hair on to the head in a coil was adopted by many
ladies, and in most cases the coiffure was completed
by strings of small pearls. Miss Kahlo’s dross was
a simple ivory white, and her dancing exquisite.
Two splendid costumes came from Wynyard
Square, and one of the most simple yet
charming was a deep pink with cardinal
zone, worm by a pretty dark girl. And very
charming, too, Was a novel apple-green satin,
trimmed with dem lace, worn by a pretty fail-
rival. Between dark and fair, of course all tho
others are Included—which saves us saying any
more. Thank goodness 1 it’s So risky. Mr}. Alex.
Brown, ol Newcastle, wore a line black satin,
trimmed with point lace, and steel embroidered.
Mrs. Kahlo looked exceedingly well in black
silk, trimmed with steel balls and white laoo;
and her sister (wife of Mr. D. 8. A. Alexander,
Fifth Auditor, Treasury, Wash.), in a handsome
pink costume, setoff with point lace. Miss Bennett,
daughter of ox-Brevet Brigadier-General Bennett,
wore a peculiar and interesting dress of blue jusi,
and bru sels lace half-skirt. Mrs, Alcock wore a
dress composed principally of rich black Spanish
lace, with side panels of black broohd satin; cream
and cardinal crush roses, long Cream gloves and
diamond Suite completed a tasteful costume. Mrs.
John Ward looked graceful and pretty in pale
blue, a colour which admirably became her blonde
looks and fair face. After scanning several scores
of gay and handsome dresses, one’s eye rested with
pleasure on a costume as simple ns it was un-
common: a creamy white India muslin flounced
skirt, with a fichu of soft white tulle crossed over
the chest. Twas minus colour or ornament, but the
effect was most charming. A black dress was con-
spicuous, because its steel bead o nbroidery was so
profuse as almost to serve as steel armour. A
orepm, with facings worked on it in beetle's wings,
was uncommon. Miss Davenport was lovely in
blapk, cut low (but not too) with short sleeves.
Thljs lady has a peculiar way of waltzing; but it is
very graceful, so it doesn’t matter. Miss Taylor,
of Balmain, looked stylish in crimson satin, with
cream lace trimmings. A rather novel costume
was an olive green velvet made with long train,
and faced with rich cream corded silk. Trains
were rather in favour, but there was very little
rooni for their display. Just Imagine that pale
heliotrope satin broenrf, with the white ostrich
feather trimmings, made a carpet! Why one stamp
on a bunch of such feathers would mean more
than a pound’s worth of damage. Yet trains do
give grace—or, suppose we say.tbey lend it, till the
appendage gets draggled a r d dust-grimed. A tall
stylish Balmain young lady wore a cream dress
with one enormous crimson rose on the right
shoulder, and line diamond jewellery. The now
colour, verging between brick-red and old gold,
very trying, was tried by one young lady whose
Jacket was watered silk, black skirt profusely
studded with pompons to match jacket —quite
striking.
♦ * *
Besides the names mentioned, the fol-
lowing were some of those present:—Mr. Atwater,
Mr. C. J. Auckland, Mr and Mrs. Backhouse,
Mr. Mrs. and Miss Broomfield, Mr. H. Brinsmead,
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Bennett, Mr. A. S. Bevan,
Mr. H. 8. Chipman, Mr. W. Chipman, Mr. and Mrs.
8. Cook, Mrs. and Miss Davies, Mr. B. and Miss
Day, Mr. J. De Court (French Consul), Mr. Mrs.
and Miss W. J. Clarke, Mr. and Mrs. Elkington, Dr.
O. S. Evans, Mr. W. Fleming, Mr. James Gannon,
Mr. W. Gannon, Dr. Garrett, Mr. and Mrs. 8.
Hordern, Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Heaton, Mr. R. M.
Hlscocks, Mr. W. Henderson, Mr. L. E. Henderson,
Dr. G. Hawkins, Mr. G. D. Kahlo, Mr. E. K. Lam-
bert, Mr. B. A. Little, Mr. C. Marked, Mr. J. 8.
Mason, Mr. C. E. Moulton, Mr. T. Playfair (junr.),
Mr. L. F. Sachs, Dr. and Mrs. Slate, Miss St. Clair,
Mr. Carl Bahl (German Consul), Mr. and Mrs. A. C.
Shadle-, Hon. W. J. Trickett (Postmaster-General),
Mr. W. H. Traill, Dr. W. B. Warren, Mrs. and Miss
Wilson, Mr. and Mrs. W. Wiley, &c. But, of course,
many others, whose names are not to hand, helped
to make the ball brilliant. And that it certainly
was.
• • •
Dr. and Mrs. Heeley gave their annual
Children’s Fancy Dress Ball, at Cranbrook House,
on 4th Inst. About fifty attended, including a
sprinkling of adults. Tho belle was decidedly a
young lady .-epresentlng Moonlight, and the scene
was exceedingly pretty.
• • •
A mortifying but undeniable fact must
make itself apparent to lady visitors from our
dear sleepy Sydney to Melbourne, very soon after
their arrival there, namely, that as regards fashion
and style In dress, the girls they left behind them
are far—very far—behind the fair citizenesses
of that go-ahead metropolis. Considering that
our facilities tor the acquirement of fashion-
able Intelligence from Europe are equal to
theirs, and that we are separated from them
by only forty-eight hours straightway travel-
ling, that our Melbourne sisters should bo so far in
advance of us in this matter seems extraordinary.
Possibly climate is accountable for a dif-
ference of temperament and constitution, for
perhaps we do incline a trifle more towards “ lilies
and languor,” but comparisons are “odorous.”
However that may be, tho melancholy and
humiliating truth remains, that only lately have
we arrived at the mode prevailing in the Victorian
city ‘so long ago as last Christinas, in the making
of dresses, etc. The crinolette, though still a
novelty, had made its appearance there at that
time, and the loose gloves worn over dress sleeves
were universal.
❖ # ;Jc
By the way, that very prominent feature
of our present costume, the crinolette, well de-
serves a place with the Owl, and tho J, and the
Pickwick pen, as “ a boon and a blessing to men!”
For, however loudly they may animadvert against
it, it is quite certain that In secret the lords of
creation are hugging themselves with delight at
tho prospect of such material for satire as that
now promising to offer Itself in the article of
attire just mentioned. What is man without a
grievance ? And, positively, he has been without
one on the fruitful subject of feminine apparel
since the days of long trains. What would tho
caricaturists have done, and what would the comic
papers have been in times past, but for our crino-
lines and chignons and trained skirts ? And
now, what an oasis appears for them after the
arid stretch just passed, in tho crinolette! So
let them rail, ladies, and let us, like the
philosophic blacksmith when flagellated by his
better half, console ourselves with the reflection
that it amuses them and does not hurt us. To tall
figures the crinolette, in moderation, is an
Improvement. Lea pauvres petit es, who cannot
afford curtailment, will be the sufferers by the
present fashion, as it certainly detracts from one's
height. A day of revenge on the superior sox
is approaching with the ora of light trousers, for it
is whispered that our lanky Cornstalks of the male
persuasion are not distinguished for development
• • •
Some handsome costumes were to be seen
on the block on Saturday morning, notably one of
black brochd and ottoman silk was remarked for
the novelty of its trimming, which was of large
pompons of maize and black, as well as for the
elegance of style in making and fit. Another of seal
brown broche velvet was rich and becoming. A
third of bright blue velvet, profusely trimmed with
gold braid and buttons, was at all events very
dazzling. Dark green and black appeared to be
the favourite colours for dresses. The materials—
velvet, plain and brochtf, and silks, ottoman, and
brochd.
Hats vary greatly as to shape and size.
Straw ones of crushed strawberry colour, trimmed
with feathers of same shade underneath, and velvet
much darker in hue, are evidently becoming popu-
lar. Buttons and trimmings for dresses, display a de-
cidedly metallic tendency. Small linen collars,
worn outside the dress, are beginning to make
their appearance. The long loose gloves some with
gauntlets, are very picturesque, but the undressed
kid is not at all serviceable.
• • •
Owners of unolassic profiles will rejoice at
the impending change in coiffure; the hair is once
more to be piled on the top of the head, and
adorned with bows, and the Greek knot to retire
to Its old place among the myths of ancient his-
tory. The fashionable heads, surmounted by
opera wraps, recall irresistibly to our minds the
*• cloud capp'd towers ”of the poet. Sublime com-
parison!
• • •
The vagaries of Dame Fashion are a
curious and amusing study to the philosophic ob-
server. She does not glide along with orthodox
ladylike motion, but leaps like an athlete from one
extreme to another. Thus, at one period she or-
dains that wo are to wriggle along trailing yards
of drapery after us, like mermaids, or 80-Peep's
sheep, carrying our tails behind us; we are “ limp,"
and our garments “cling” to us bathing-gown
style; then suddenly the trains are discarded, we
appear In short skirts with bouffant drapery, and
( ellght in protuberances; now our hair must hang
low on our lovely necks; presently it is to bo
strained from the back of the head and perched on
the top <i la Chlnoise. Carlyle should have given
us a sequel to “Sartor Resartus,” from Blumine’s
point.
• • •
On Thursday, sth Instant, an event which
all the of Newcastle—and other people—bad
been long looking forward to, came off: viz., the
Rowing Club’s third annual ball, which was quite
a success socially, and wo hope pecuniarily. Plain
or fancy dress Was permissible, and many availed
of the latter. Noticeable among the ladles were
Monte Carlo, Greek Slave, Newcastle Rowing Club,
Druidlcal Priestess (not very antique), Marguerite,
and a Galatea whose beauty was nearly marble-ous'
Among the gentlemen, Plppofrom “Mascotte” was
par excellence; Muleteer, Charles 11., Capt. of Sub-
urban Bikes, Torreador, Highlander, &c., were
good. Opinions divided as to belle. But it was
generally conceded that Miss Capp, of Maitland,
took the head place, in white satin and flowers;
and a reigning belle, Miss Cloudy, was proximo
acceeslt as Lizzie Stofel. The ladies wore very
little colour. A white satin was rather precious;
a black satin and white lace from Sydney charm-
ing: and there was great regret on the part of
youthdom when it learned that certain of the most
fascinating ladies were (alas!) married. One, as
Eben, two simple India muslins, and some relatives
of the Sydney Mayor in pure white, were admir-
able. Altogether, it was an unqualified good
things
»V » ¥
There was a Muscmin hall at Casino on 27th
June, in Mr. Crouch’s new store. About seventy
attended, and it was enjoyable till 4 a.m. next
day, at which hour there was found to be a strange
mixture of hats among the brethren. It was the
fault of the hats, of course. Sprightly belle from
a neighbouring station Civilization has spread
so much that there was lately a ball at that eu-
phonious township, Botobolar—At Cootamundra,
a young man whose friends have deluded him into
the idea that he can sing, treated his audience at a
concert to five songs in a string, without even
accompaniment A large number of American
ladies and gentlemen attended Consul Kahlo’s levee
on Independence Day, when the new national
banner was hoisted at his office—Same day, Mr.
Jewett, an American shipping man, gave a party
in the Temperance Hall at Balmain, when dancing
was indulged in both before and after supper....
Vacy C.C. ball was held on the 39th-... A most suc-
cessful ball was given by the Bachelors of Brewar-
rina, when ladies from Bourke, the Bogan, and all
sorts of “outside” places, came in long distances to
help to make it triumphant. Indeed, the Bache-
lors, much os they exerted themselves, admit it
was the ladies “did it.” Decorations were extra
fine, some even order?d from Sydney. A trio of
harp, piano, and violin gave music, dresses pretty,
over 100 present, and the universal harmony spoke
well for the absence of snobbishness in Bre warrina.
On Friday, 13th July, the first annual ball of the
Thistle Club happens in the Protestant Hall, when
a large display of plaid stockings is expected, and
the price of tickets places them (tickets, not stock-
ings) within the reach of a11....The Auckland
papers hail the advent of a professor of dancing
and calisthenics in Mr. J. Bernard. Mr. Bernard
was well-known on the dancing floors Of Sydney,
and is one of the “onlies” trained by the Pro-
fessor Some people who were going to the
Orange Hospital ball, dresses preparing and all,
changed the.r minds. On receiving invitations to
a private ball, to occur a few nights later, they
perceived they could save the price of tickets and
yet have a ball just the same. Some people would
rob a church Rowing Club ball passed off at
Newcastle on Friday; and Bachelors are to have
one at Mudgee Farmer’s (Victoria House)
annual reunion and ball comes off early in August,
and, report salth. is to be choicer than ever— Dr.
Charles Ryan, of Plevna celebrity, was married, a
few days ago, at Melbourne, to Miss Sumner, a
daughter of one of the partners of Messrs. Grice,
Sumner, and Co. The lady has a dowry of £20,000
a very fair sum-ner to start with Th® annual
fancy dress ball of the Melbourne Deutscher Turn
Verein will be held in August. The society ban-
queted Its president, Mr. Bernhardt Levy, who has
been a member fifteen years. Baron Von Mueller
in the chair, who laid great stress on the necessity
for gymnasia. The society has so increased
that its buildings will have to be enlarged....
Last week the Parramatta Rowing Club gave its
complimentary party to the “cast” of “ Our Boys”
(who, wo may say, were to repeat their perfor-
mance there last night for the C.C.) Many pretty
dresses were worn, light refreshments provided,
and dancing kept up till half-past three. Ladies
rather too numerous for the gentlemen On the
occasion of eldest daughter’s birthday, Mrs. J.
Craig, of Miller's Point, gave a nice dance, when
good catering and Shaptcr’s string baud helped
things along. About 40 present. Two AVoollahra
sisters donned straw and pink; a blonde in prune
velvet was a divine waltzer, and a lady from the
Richmond River in peacock blue and diamonds
was quite a “Richmond gem.” Blonde in blue,
from Castleroagh-street, thought the belle Some
Government clerks at Mclboux-ne, having formed
a social assembly, one of the members was lately
requested to leave the ballroom because a lady
who accompanied his sister was a tradesman s
daughter —At Sir W. J. Clarke’s annual coursing
match at Sunbury, 600 sat to dinner in'the marquee,
and some of the guests threw bread, fruit, and
bottles at one another across the tables, in a way
that would credit the lowest larrikinisra. A
similar scene occurred when Hudson Brothers
gave a magnificent spread on starting their Gran-
ville Works over a year ago. Some abused their
hospitality by making skittles andcockshiesof full
champagne bottles—A grand dramatic enter-
tainment is to be given in Melbourne in
aid of the Royal Humane Society of Australasia..
Mr. and Mrs. Doyle celebrated their “ golden
wedding” up in Forbes lately. They have fifty
grandchildren. ...Captain Bascard, harbour-master
at Timaru, N.Z., recently died on his way back
from Dunedin to Timaru from his wedding trip.
Adelaide maidens who want to marry money
are throwing their caps at Steiner the jeweller,
Svraon the lawyer, aad Rodway the dentist. Symon
is a pleasant inanity; Steiner is a wealthy good
fellow; and Rodway—well, he can pull teeth at
least tolerably... .On the 3rd July, Mr. Charles
Frankel, of this city, was married at Fitzroy to the
daughter of Mr. Joseph Cohen, Melbourne. Bride
in cream satin; nine bridesmaids, who wore white
silk caps with robin-redbreast, which looked pretty
in their dark Jewish tresses. Four bachelors were
utilised for holding up the corners of the nuptial
canopy, which was olue velvet and gold fringe. If
they won’t marry, bachelors must be used in some
way .. A bank masher was having some fun with
the Botanic Garden monkeys the other day, when
a friend came up and said: “Hullo, Jones, you’re
enjoying yourself.” “ Oh, yes,” replied Jones,
innocently, “ I’m at home among these chaps.”
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Balmain B.C. Ball (Town Hall) J uly 13
Thistle Club Ball (Protestant Hall) July 13
Woollahra Private Assembly (Nithsdale) July 20
Sydney Private Assembly (Nithsdale) July 37
Sydney Bicycle Club Sports Aug - . 4
Windsor Masonic Ball Aug. 23


VALUABLE TRUTHS.
“ if you are suffering from
‘or languishing on a bed of sickness,
* take cheer, for
Hop Bitters will cure you.
“ If you are simply ailing, if you feel
* weak and dispirited, without clearly
‘ knowing why.
Hop Bitters will Revive you.
“ if you are a Minister, and have over-
* taxed yourself with your pastoral
‘ duties, or a Mother worn out with care
‘ and work,
Hop Bitters will Restore you.
“If you are a man of business or
‘ labourer weakened by the strain of
‘ vour every-day duties, or a man of let-
‘ ters, toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strenghten you.
“ If you are suffering from over eating
‘ordrinking, any indiscretion or dissi-
-1 pation, or are young and growing too
4 fast, as is often the case,
Hop Bitters will relieve you.
“ if you are in the workshop, on the
‘ farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
* that your system needs cleansing, ton-
‘ ing, or stimulating, without inttoxicat-
‘ing
Hop Bitters is what you need.
“If you are old, and your blood thin
‘ and Impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
‘unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Hop Bitters will give you new Life
and Vigour.
“ HOP BITTERS is an elegant, heal-
‘ thy, and refreshing flavouring for sick-
‘ room drinks ; impure water, etc., ren-
‘ dering them harmless, and sweetening
‘ the mouth, and cleansing the stomach.’
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
HOP BITTERS
is an Elegant, Pleasant, and Refreshing Flavouring
for sick-room drinks and Impure Water, rendering
them harmless, sweetening the mouth, and cleans-
ing the stomach.
GRAHA
TiilLOE,
531
George St., Sydney.
Palace of Fashion
and Art.
" The Apparel oft (proclaims the Man.”
MR. J. GRAHAM has recently returned from
a Special
BUSINESS TOUR
in the United States and Europe (London, Paris,
Berlin, &o.), and has arranged for the introduction
per each Mail Steamer of the
Newest, Costliest, and Most Fashionable
CLOTHING MATERIAL,
simultaneously with their introduction by the
fashionable Houses of London and Paris, &c.
CLOTHING is made up at the shortest notice by
the best talent in Australia and London, and exact
reproductions of London and Paris Fashions in
Art and Material guaranteed.
Ballroom and Bridal Outfits, and Evening Dress
Suits, in a style unequalled or unsurpassed.
Mr. J. Graham speaks through the Press to the
gentlemen in the most distant parts of the interior.
Prompt attention and Advice given in matters of
Dress, Style, &c., with instructions for measure-
ment, free of cost, and the best and most satisfac-
tory results guaranteed.
For the protection of the Public, the name
GRAHAM and the figures S3l are of mammoth
dimensions—the largest on any establishment in
all Australia.
The Fashionable World of Australia and
the great middle class of the cities and towns as
well, are requested to continually note th» an-
nouncements in this column, from
J. GRAHAM, Tailor,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
EVERY \ ti. Ekmm nv mu.
MAN
SHOULD
READ
A valuable book, describing how suffer-
I ers from Nervous amt Physical Debility,
Mental Decay and all disorders result-
ing from Excesses, Indiscretions or
Overwork, are permanently Cured
WITHOUT STOMACH MEDICATION.
Weak, nervous A impotent Men restored to
VKOE, HEALTH AND MANHOOD.
Consultation and Book free. Address—
MALSTON REMEDY Co., 350 Seorge St.
SYDNEY.
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURB FOR INDIGESTION,
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT, WEAK-
NESS, &c.
PRICE 2s, 6d.
Prepared by A. G. KEBBLEWHITE. CHEMIST, &c.
43 BRSKINE STREET.
Sold by W. H. SOUL, and all Chemists.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
It is stated that Cardinal Manning pro-
poses to attend on© of the Prince of Wales levees
this season. Should he do so, it will be the first
ins ance of an English Roman Catholic Bishop at-
tending Court since the Reformation.
The Bishop of Melbourne’s “Lesson for
Young Men upon the character of Esau," in the
Sydney Echo, was neatly written; and, to strictly
orthodox young men, may have conveyed grains
of comfort. To young men out of the way, grap-
pling with doubt and anxious to get hold of some-
thing tangible, it was but an eloquent series of
paragraphs based upon an •* If."
In the noble spirit of “Fair Play” the
Echo writes: “We have received another long
letter, intended to be an answer to the Bishop of
Newcastle, from Mr. J. E. Kelly; but we shall not
intlict it upon our readers. Mr. Kelly has had his
chance, and proved himself so completely unable
to hold his own in controversy with Dr. Pearson,
that it would he cruelty to himself, as also a waste
of our space, to print a second contribution from
his pen on the subject in dispute." The odd thing
is that the public, whose views and opinions the
Echo so imperfectly echoes, kinder thought that
the Novocastrian (thanks, Alfred, for that word)
the Novocastrian prelate had not met Stockwhip
K.’s arguments, but had simply shirked them.
A mart parson was the Rev. B. Ruoke-
Keane, of Essex, who took pity upon an unfortu-
nate parishioner who had two horses, ms only
means of livelihood, dieon his hands. The humble
follower, &o„ headed a subscription to buy his
parishioner another horse. He Rave £* 10s., and
went round with the list till he got £9 subscribed.
Then he hastened, with gratified charity beaming
from his countenance, to the object of his care,
and explained that, as there were £7 due for tithes,
that would leave £2 towards the horse. And he
pocketed the £7 and handed over the £2. By the
way, we notice that our dear and intimate friend,
George of Wales, will have as messmate in the
midshipman’s berth of H.M.S. Canada, a nephew
of the reverend and smart gentleman, In the person
of Master W. G. Rucke-Keane.
When is the idiotic tomfoolery of swearing
the Chinese witness by blowing out a luclfer match
or chopping off a rooster’s capltoi, to be done away
with ? The heathen’s god doesn’t care a curse for
perjury, unless (so the heathen thinks) some
strictly prescribed formula is strictly adhered to.
If pocus-hocus is said instead of hocus pocus,
the oath is void; and unless the luclfer match is
blown out with a certain amount of orientation or
other posture-mongerlng, the lucifer match oath
goes for just as much worth (with the taker there-
of) as does the kiss on the thumb-nail instead of on
the calfskin of King James’s Bible with the ignor-
ant Britisher. Charms, whether heathen or Chris-
tian, should be left alone, and reliance placed upon
the substantial sanction of temporal punishment.
The members of the Church of the Latter
Day Saints, calling themselves the original Mor-
mons, held a conference in Kirtland, 0., in April.
The official name of the Church is “ The Reor-
ganised Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day )
Saints." It is anti-polygamous, and numbers
about 40,000 members. Among the delegates was
the son of the Mormon prophet, Joseph Smith.
The Twelve Apostles were also present. The re-
union was held in the old Mormon Temple, which
has stood idle for fifty years. These “ original
Mormons ” are rough on the Mormons of Utah.
The doctrines of the Utah Mormons (say they) are
the dlabolit allmns of the nineteenth century'- We
have no interests in common with the Utah Church,
those full-blooded apostles, whoso practices are
viler than the vilest. When such men claim to be
Latter Day Saints, they are but latter day devils.
It has reached Tasmania at last—we mean
baptism by immersion. It has taken a considerable
time to get round this side, and has had to skip
many countries on its way. There is also some
innovation in the ceremony, for, while English and
American saints were baptised in the swiftly-flow-
ing currents of great rivers, their poor Tasmanian
brethren had to put up with a tank in a tan-yard.
But what they lost in cleanliness they gained in
temperature, tor, by means of pipes loading from
the bailer to the tank, the water was raised to an
agreeable warmth. In order to render the cere-
mony as pleasant as possible to catechumens, the
larrikins of the neighbourhood assembled in force
and introduced hats, caps, dead dogs, and a few
stale oyster-shells into the font. Two ladies—a
mother and daughter—were put through. The pus
was given to the elder lady, who stopped boldly
into the tank to the tune of “ Hold the Fort.” She
was accompanied by the clergyman, who deftly
placed his right arm round her waist, and saying
«• I baptise you in the name of the Trinity,’ bobbed
her head as far as he could under the water. The
young woman was served likewise, and then the
party started for home to the tune of “ The other
side of Jordan,” accompanied by the discordant
ribaldry of the unconverted male spectiitors and
the laughter of the female. Takes all sorts of peo-
ple to make a world, doesn’t it ?
The Sabbatarians have carried the day in
Melbourne. It will be remembered that a snort
time ago the trustees of the Public Library and
Art G llery there opened the doors of those
institutions on Sunday afternoons. The customary
result followed, and the customarily predicted
result did not. Thousands of respectable p rople
attended, and there was a total absence of
rowdyism. But the “unco’ guld” detected the
finger of man’s great enemy in all this, and on
Wednesday, July 4, the Legislative Assembly by a
large majority decided that the trustees were
acting if not ultra vires at least unpleasantly close
to it. So the institutions were closed again-
smothered as it were in their very birth. This is,
of course, by no means a final settlement. Having
once enjoyed a rational Sunday, it is Improbable in
the extreme that people will return to their old
ways. The strangest thing in connection with the
whole affair is the number of members who
remained away from the debate and forgot to pair.
They found themselves between the devil an i the
deep sea, and had not the courage of their opinions.
Even the Premier, Mr. Service, was absent. His
conduct throughout the whole struggle has been
singularly undignified, particularly as his person il
opinions on these matters are notoriously ultra-
liberal. Adverting to the subject, the Age remarks
with pardonable bittorne-s : —“ It will be a poor
triumph to have driven young me from the con-
templation of pictures and the study of scientific
collections, if wo leave the doors of the tap room
and the assignation house open to receive them
under the very noses of their spiritual shepherds.”
At the meeting of the Blue Ribbon Army
in the Temperance Hall, Melbourne, on the sth
instant, the usual assortment of “redeemed sin-
ners” was exhibited. Worse scoundrels have
been trotted out on previous occasions, but none
with such a generally distinctive trait of Inherent
shabbiness. One cleanly-shaven, ferret-eyed,
snobbish-voiced specimen of the “ ransomed,” told
the story of bis mother’s shame and degradation,
and bore testimony to the loving kindness of
Jehovah, who inspired him, the snob, at an early
period of his life, to have nothing to do with the
intoxicating bowl. An old greybeard re-
vealed the sins of his father "who is dead
now, and who boo, hoo I hardly believe
can be saved,” and thanked the Lord that
from 11 years of age he had been called
by Immanuel to live the purer life of total absti-
nence. It is not an unusual thing to see house-
breakers, bawds, and garrott rs swaggering across
a platform with the smirk of what they call re-
demption ” upon their hard faces. The Salvation
Array showed off this tribe on the Sunday before.
“I’m after doing seven years,” cried one fellow.
•‘Praise the Lord I” cried Major Barker. “These
hands have robbed many of you who are now lis-
tening to me,” continued the fellow; “ hut now
they follow an honest work: they sell the War
Cry.” “Praise the Lord for that!” cried the
Major. “ Many of you have seen me night after
night walking the flags of Bourke-street in the
devil’s service, but now I am justified and
I onlv walk with Christ,” said a Hallelujah lass in a
pokey bonnet. “ Praise the Lord for that!” cried
Major Barker. The emotions raised by these spec-
tacles is measurable by ordinary words, but it is
not so easy to select language suitable to the dis-
gust excited by the snivelling cad who gibbets his
rather and mother, and shows himself off as the
mortal morsel on whose behalf Providence stepped
into a depraved family circle.
• •
Mr. A. A. Levi, for thirty-two years reader
at Sydney Synagogue, is dead—Kelynack, on the
authority of Jo-Cook, says that by the year 3000
there'll be 1,300,000,000 nominal Christians around.
We thoroughly endorse the “nominal.” The
Melbourne Presbytery have formally expressed re-
gret at Hev. C. Strung s action with regard to
Sunday opening. That might have gone without
savin#, you SAy. Quit© so, only it reminds us
how the true-blue Presbyterians of the land of
Knox and cutaneous irritation have been formally
expressing their regret every decade or so at the
growing use of the organ, the whilk abomination
as being instrumental mus c and so a carnal ordin-
ance of the Levitical economy is Anathema-Mara-
natha. Amen ... At Wellington, N.Z. on a recent
Sunday, a “ Hallelujah lad " had his beard torn out
by unbelievers. ..From the Age:—“Town Hall
Meeting, Fitzroy. Would the three clergymen
who pulled off my paper collar at free light on
the platform last evening, please return the same.
Address,” &0... A Presbyterian parson prayed
thusly, recently, at a funeral:—“ We meet here
under very trying circumstances, but Thou, O
Lord, art equal to the occasion! ” The Pbesby-
teiiian Is credulous enough to believe, and to ask
others on its authority to believe that an intelli-
gent girl was lately found in Melbourne hospital,
who knew nothing of Jesus Christ. She had at-
tended a good State school, had never seen a Bible,
or attended a Sabbath-school or Church, or heard
of God, and that she had a 50u1... .Thus a religious
sheet: “Rev. Mr. Tress (C.E.) has had a mission at
Jamberoo, resulting in a change in the religious
and moral tone of the district, and the bringing of
happiness and joy into many hearts and homes.”
Yum, yum.
•
The oldest Cardinal in the Sacred College
is Cardinal Bonnechose, Archbishop of Rouen,
aged 84; and next come Cardinal Newman, aged 83;
and Cardinal Guibert, Archbishop of Paris, 81. The
youngest are Cardinals Parocchi and Zigliara, both
aged 50, and Czacki, recently created, aged 49. The
senior members of the College itself are Cardinal
Prince Schwarzenberg, created by Gregory XVI.,
41 years ago; Cardinal Di Pietro, Dean of the Col-
lege, who has worn the purple for 30 years; and
Cardinal Mertel, created 35 years ago. Of the 61
Cardinals living, one was created by Gregory XVI.,
40 by Pius IX., and 30 by Leo XIII. Counting one
more reserved in petto at the Consistory held on
December 13, 1880, whose name has still to be de-
clared, there remain eight hats vacant. ..Rev.
Robert Collyer spoke of Peter Cooper as “a man
who never owned a dollar he could not take up to
the great white throne.” But Peter Cooper did not
take any dollars with him. He left his money
where it would benefit humanity ...A French
chuch chorister brought an action against his
parish priest for unlawful dismissal. He always
broke down when he had to chant ‘ Domine
salvem lac Republican!” (Lord, save the Republic.)
He lost his case. That’ssound justice, now. When
a man is paid to pray, it’s only right he should
gray to suit his employer. Now, Osoorne—The
iNOUSH Church Review says:—“ These are pip-
ing times for garotters, sacrilegious maniacs, Pro-
testant churchwardens, and the criminal classes
generally”.... A recently madeestimate of the pro-
portion of criminals to every 100,000 of British
population discloses the fact that the religious
creeds supply 1000 Christians to one infidel. Hence
the freethinker asks with reason, “ How about by
their fruits ye shall know them ’ Talmage
says no man can do more than one thing well. This
may explain why it is impossible for a sensational
preacher to kee i himself before the public and
save souls at the same time.
There had been a good crushing at the
Rise and Shine, where poor old Dunphy died
broken-hearted, and John Rattray went mad.
There were very few men on the Held until lately,
James Boyce being the oldest hand, and he for
some years past had spent his time carting wood
and rearing cattle. But now a rush set in, and as
gold was plentiful, Father Carty and the Key.
William Tyson received a divine call to attend to
the spiritual welfare of the people. Royce had
been thirteen years in the colony, and seven years
ago had brought his little girl, Jenny, out to the
colony, and had married her, and they were as
happy as birds. Jim had been an Orangeman in
the oid land, and Jenny had been a true Catholic,
but there was neither church nor chapel at the
Shine, and the point of difference never came up.
They had no children, and it was a pleasure to
look on the warm union that existed between big
Jim and little Jenny. Father Carty and the Rev.
Tyson heard of it. The interesting problem was
raised as to what would be done with the children,
if there should be any. Father Carty explained it
to Jenny, and the Rev. Tyson to Jim. At llrst the
simple pair were amused, but gradually they came
to see the importance of settling it. Jim would
come in from the Rev. Tyson, and say, Now,
Jenny, bang it, you know, old girl, I don’t care
about Protestantism, but a man can t go back on
his religion—the young ones will fall to Tyson.
Eh? He knew my people at home.” But Jenny
wouldn’t give in, as Father Carty told her she
ought to stand up stoutly for the souls of the little
ones. Then Jim would finish off with saying,
“ Well, hang it, we’re a pair of fools to fight about
the thing, for I don’t expect we’ll ever have any.
But the two reverends were not to be put off, and
at the end of the week Jim and Jenny had the first
serious quarrel. On Sunday Jim got drunk, and
swore his children should be brought up in his
father’s faith; and Jenny lost her temper, and
jeered and taunted ; and while the two reverends
were praying in another part of the town, Jim,
who had never tried the weight of his hand on
Jinny before, gave her a blow and she fell against
the table. Next morning Jenny was dead ; and
Father Carty and the Rev. Tyson went away, after
raising a collection for the support of religion ;
and Juu, with a ghostly lace, and red, frightened
eyes, looked after them as they rode down the hill,
and cried, “We wouldn’t have had any, at any rate.
What ailed me at all ?”
The charge brought by Lord Randolph
Churchill against the Khedive Tewflk, that he and
not Arabl organized the massacres of Europeans
at Alexandria, was no new thing. On May lOtn,
Truth said: “By this time Lord Duffenn is pro-
bably aware that the Khedive, and not Arabi,
organized the massacres at Alexandria, the object
being to force Europe to interfere against the
Egyptian National party. This, of course, renders
our position so utterly absurd, that every effort is
made to prevent the real facts from being made
clear.” However, the murder will out. Lord
Randolp ’s authority is Mr. Mark Naoier, the
barrister employed to defend Arab! Pasha and
other “ Rebel ” nationalists. His story is that
“Omar Lufti, the present Minister ot War. who
was Governor of Alexandria at the time of the
massacre of the 11th June, was the agent or the
Khedive in getting up that massacre. It was,
according to Mr. Napier, a palace intrigue on the
part of the Khedive and Omar Lufti for the pur-
pose of injuring Arabi Pasha, by showing that he
could not keep order. Omar Lufti, it is alleged,
wanted the Chief of the Police, Ahmed Khandeel,
to assist him; but Ahmed remained in bed and
kept out ot the way. Now Ahmed Khandeel is
under trial for the crime, and his counsel, Mr.
Napier, has come to England complaining that he
has not been allowed to see his client.” Lovely
creature, “our ally, His Highness the Khedive.
The Government should depose him and send our
ally, James Carey, C.M.G., to till the throne. Carey
is a considerable skunk, but Tewlik phew.
“ J. A. 0’8.,” a Queenslander, doesn’t think
a great deal of Mr. Ernest Morrison's much-vaunted
“ walk across the Australian continent, ’ and
remarks that, to the people of Western Queensland,
the Morrisonian performance was a very lame one,
indeed, for in that quarter, and during all periods
of the year, men are to be met with who have
travelled as great, if not a greater distance, and
under the most pinching circumstances. That
Mr. Morrison actually accomplished it, no one for
one moment doubts-considering the time which
it occupied, as well as the likely assumption that
he had sufficient “sugar” to keep blisters down at
each wayside hostelry. Continues our corres-
nondentAt the time of the Woolgar rush I met
two returning diggers (Port Mackay men) at
Hughenden, on the Flinders. They had left home
without a sixpence in their pockets, and had tra-
velled across the whole of Northern Queensland
till they reached that bogus goldfield. At the end
of two days they re-shouldered their swags, for
fickle fortune had led them a wild goose chase,
and they wore contentedly marching back towards
sunrise. One was barefooted, and the other had
the remnants of his boots lashed to his feet, with
pieces of greenhide. Th«y told me that they had
averaged on the way out 3o miles a day, and would
have made considerably more if not handicapped
with heavy swags. Again, from the MTntyre
River in the Darling Downs District to the Palmer
goldfields, from the Palmer to Wllcannia diggings
in N.S. Wales, and from Brisbane to the Western
Herbert, are journeys long since accomplished on
foot by adventurous Queenslanders, many of whom
were personally known to myself, and in most
cases unier circumstances which would appal the
stoutest heart. A day or two now and again with-
out food, ditto without water, ditto with liquid-
mud in lieu of water, ceaseless vigilance for weeks
when in the neighbourhood of unpolite blacks,
and under all these adverse things, necessitated to
do their level best at “ heel and toe.” About four
years ago a man was working on a Barooo station,
who had just completed a journey on foot from
Adelaide. From Adelaide to the Barcoo, think of
it ! He was about 37 years of age, and a Welsh-
man. He had about 30s. in his pocket he
started ; wrought at nothing on the way; sup-
S or tod himself on these few coins till he entered
r.S. Wales, when he took to “wallabying” or
living as best he could. He reached the Barcoo,
fat and strong, and although he had travelled about
30 miles daily for months, he was as smart on his
feet as a draper’s assistant. Even more, when the
shearing finished (about six weeks after his arrival)
he went to the nearest “ i üb.” where he lambed
down his cheque most regally, and with the modest
sum of live shillings, and a bottle of rum (gifts
from the publican) he started on his way back.
This man undoubtedly had a mania for travelling.
Work was no object to him. Hunger and thirst
and cold brought no uneasiness to him in his
dreams. He seemed to have no higher ambition
than the right to use his feet on the highways of
the colonies, and that right, no doubt, he is exer-
cising yet (if alive), wherever he may be. Mark :
If, instead of being a waif of ihat great human
rolling-stock which Australia generates, he had
been a marquis-of-this or a lord-of-that, or even
an obstreperous printer’s devil, what a laurel
wreath of fame would have encircled his freckled
brow on his return to civilisation. Every nail of
his “ brogues ” would have received popular
homage. Burnaby’s ride to Khiva, or “Archie’s ”
greatest exploit amongst “shell and canister and
kings,” were things not half as risky as what that
itinerant Welshman underwent. There were men
on the Mount Briton or Nebo diggings who had
travelled overland from very remote places in
N.S. Wales and Victoria. Thirty miles a day
(Sunday included) are the average diggers’ travel-
ling when the rush is over 1000 miles distant, and
many travel at a much greater rate when food is
difficult to obtain. Of course with diggers the de-
sideratum is gold. Sweat and blisters, short-
commons, and even death are but secondary con-
siderations, and the journeys made by some of
them after this phantom would, if chronicled, be
instantly set down—well, as a superlative sort of
blowing. Ido not wish to depreciate in any way
the feat of Mr. Morrison, but what I want to
respectfully point out is, that there has been too
much “twaddle” about an everyday occurrence.
By an “ everyday occurrence ” I do not mean that
men are constantly reaching Melbourne on foot
from the Gulf country, but simply that stages,
many as long, and some longer, have been accom-
plished by tramps and diggers without even a
“ blow ” from a penny whistle, and under circum-
stances exceedingly more trying.
“ Well, my boy, how do you get on at school ?”
“ Oh fine, Ma, I was shifted into a higher class to-day.”
“ Indeed! And for what study was my darling promoted ?”
“Oh, nothing; but there wasn’t room for me on the other form.”


Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
the great liver remedy,
Australia’s favourite remedy. We all suffer more
or less from liver complaint, thereby hindering
other organs from fulfilling their functions. Set
the liver in order by taking the above remedy, and
heart, lungs, brain, and stomach will unite in
graceful chorus.
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The true invigorator. If your vital forces are
depressed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of coming
disaster, vour liver is uneoual to its work. To
obviate afl these symptoms there is no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABRAHAM'S FILLS,
The great Health Kestorer. A vast proportion of
the maladies and ailments attacking the human
frame are really due to a disordered liver. Set this
organ in order and health returns as if by magic.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are imitations, ask for ABRAHAM’S
PILLS. See that each box, by whomsoever sold,
hears the inventor's name and trade mark. The
Laboratory,
434 George Street, Sydney.
MONEY LOANS GRANTED at moderate inte-
rest on Furniture (without possession),
Deeds, Bonds, Certificates, Shares, or other Secu-
rities, payable to suit convenience.
No Deduction made from amount Required,
which will bo paid in full within twelve hours of
application.
MONT DE PIETE CENTRAL LOAN OFFICE,
98 CASTLHEAGH STREET,
One door South of King Street.
WORKING CLASSES,
GENERATE YOUR OWN GAS.
KEELY AND co>>
71 Goulburn-street, Sydney.
Dealers in Portable Gas, Gasauers, Lamps, and
Fluid. Comfort, Economy, and Safety.
Mr. Kecly, on behalf of the Patent Portable Gas
Co., had charge of the lighting of the hall and
supper rooms at the Hay Demonstration, and the
ligating of Croydon Station. He undertakes to
teach his customers in throe minutes the mode of
lighting.
A liberal discount will be given to storekeepers
on remittances per orders, and goods forwarded
with quick despatch. Orders and remittances to
be sent to the above address. No orders attended
to without remittance.
LIST OF PRICES:
4 Light Gasalior 70s
3 do do 50s
3 do do 35s to 45s
Wall bracket lamp, burn 16 hours.. 17s 6d
do do 9 do .. 15s
Table lamps, 3 branch 60s
do 1 do 45s
Brass Brackets 40s
All Globes and Fittings .. .. 5s extra
Fluid, in cases, 8 gal 2s 6d per gal.
1 gal. fluid gives a light equal to 12s worth kero-
sene. Instructions as to the mode of lighting sent
to clients with despatch of goods.
Goods sent to all parts of the Colonies.
EVERY DESCRIPTION OF FISHING TACKLE,
Wholesale and Retail.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE STREET.
E3S
V. E. ANGLE S
(Late of 31 Market-street),
Fashionable Tailoring Establishment
636 GEORGE STREET,
Brickfield Hill.
A large and well-assorted stock of Tweeds and
Coatings, direct from the manufacturers, always
on hand.
All Garments Cut iti the most Fashionable Styles.
PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
Note the Address—
-630 George St., Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY.
ERNEST CARTER,
War dell Saw and Planing Mills,
RICHMOND RIVER.
All Timber is thoroughly seasoned before it
leaves these Mills, and is very light for carriage
up-country, and fit for immediate use.
PINE, CEDAR, BEECH, FLOORING, LINING.
Mouldings, Architraves. The Trade only Supplied.
A. QOEMAN,
Late of the Telegraph Hotel, Inverell,
HAS OPENED THE
‘ Cla,reaa.d.orx,’
Corner of ELIZABETH & PARK Streets,
And which he intends to keep as a first-class Hotel,
A. G. hopes, by strict attention to Business, t<
gain a share of their PATRONAGE. VISITORS
f his surpasses most of the leadint
vsKmmn 1, ACCOMODATION and every CON
VENIENCE ; and, as it overlooks HYDE PARK, ii
must necessarily be WELL VENTILATED.
SUITES of ROOMS for FAMILIES,
as per agreement.
HOT and COLD WATER BATHS.
PORTER in Attendance Day and Night.
mention the quality of the
SPIRITS, BEERS. &c. &c„ as he is, and al-
kas been, noted throughout the COLONIES
for selling nothing but the very best.
BULL & ADRIAN,
Merchant Tailors,
MB
3*
%
'9
m
so
SAY
ALL
OF
US
470 George-street, opposite the Markets,
SYDNEY.
PAPERHANGING S!
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSERY PAPERS.
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, &C.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwick,
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &c.
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE
COFFEE PALACE,
331 GEORGE STREET NORTH.
JOHN JOHNSON, Pkopiuktok.
XTAVING opened the above, the Proprietor has
supplied a want long felt in Sydney. The
first floor contains spacious Ladies and Gentle-
men’s Dining and Drawing- Rooms, also Suites and
Single Bedrooms (viz., 45 bedrooms), will be open
shortly. A trial solicited.
CALL AND INSPECT.
THOMAS MUNRO,
HERALDIC ARTIST AND ENGRAVER,
PLAIN AND FANCY STATIONER,
10 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
A Large and varied assortment of Letter Books,
-A-Ccoimt Books, and all office requisites. Purses,
Albums, Plush Bags, and Reticules; Artists’ Mate-
rials, Photo, and Picture Frames, Illuminated
Scripture and other texts. Birthday, Condolence,
and Memorial Cards.
Agent for August Huenerbein for Pianos, Or-
gans, and Music. The Engraving workshop being
under my own management, I feel confident in
suiting the public taste.
In W °h F F AND SON,
-i • Manufacturers of
Black Lead Pencils, Drawing Chalks, Cravens,
Artists Materials, and Stationers' Sundries.
Makers, by appointment, to Her Majesty's Govern-
ment and the Bank of England.
Office and Warehouse: 55 Great Queen-street
Lincoln s Inn Fields, W.C. Factory: Falcon Potici
Works, Battersea, London, S.W. A full set of
samples can be seen, and further particulars ob-
tained, on application to
B. B. WOLFF (Sole Agent for N.SiWj, care of
Messrs. Feldheim, Gotthelf and Co., 30 Hunter-
street, Sydney.
S
ECU RE A LOT AT SI’RINGSIDE
£1 DEPOSIT, £1 PER MONTH.
FORTUNATUS FINANCIAL. LAND. AND
INVESTMENT COMPANY,
E3P 317 PITT STREET,
Near Temperance Hall.
WIRE WORKERS,
WISH to call your attention to WIRE GOODS
,we make and have in stock as under :
FLOWER STANDS, for holding flowers in pots,
made of iron and wire, handsomely framed and
bronzed, suitable for rooms, halls, balconies, ver-
a-nd conservatories. Also, WIRE FERN
BASKETS, all sizes and prices.
SIEVES and SCREENS, for screening lime
gi-avel, coal, &c., all meshes, from 1 hole to 100
holes to the squares inch.
WIRE LATTICE-WORK, for protection of win-
dows from breakage caused by hail-storms or bovs’
throwing: stones. Also, WIRE NETTING, ah sizes,
from 12 in. to 73 in. wide.
CAGES of every description, for canaries and
parrots, singly or in nests, suitable for store-
keepers.
And every description of WIRE WORK made on
the premises.
EAST WAY, BROTHERS,
413 GEORG E-STREET.
Illustrated Catalogues on application.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
IF your Chemist or Grocer cannot or will not
, r »y ,y ou with the “PAINLESS CORN
rviG.IEVLR, write direct to the Registered Pro-
prietor, who will forward a bottle to all parts of
Australasia, Post Free, tor 2s. 6d.
Address:—‘JOHN CLOWES,
One Mile Creek, Gympie.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
FOWLER’S POTTERY and
BRICKWORKS,
CAMREBDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY,
Price List on application.
T
HE FEDERAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA
(Limited)
Incorporated under Act of Parliament.
CAPITAL, £lOOO,OOO ; SUBSCRIBED, £665,000.
Directors *
The Hon. W. A. Brodribb, M.L.C., Chairman.
W. H. Eldred, Esq., J.P.
Robert Hudson, Esq.
F. T. Humphery, Esq.,
M.P.
Manager; F.
Accountant:
J. Y. Mills, Esq.,
S. Maedermott.
John Docker.
J.P.
Solicitors : Messrs. Robertson, Fisher, and Ralfe.
Temporary Banking House, 257 Gcorge-street,
North, with branch at the Haymarket.
Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies
and in Europe.
Highest rates of interest given on Deposits, and
all usual Banking business transacted without
delay to customers.
F. S. MACDERMOTT, Manager.
IV. H. Anell and Co.’s Agencies.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, Canter-
bury, Normanby. and Christmas Family Cakes,
Plum Puddings, Mincemeat, Self-raising
A rated Flour, Infant’s Food, Treacle and
Golden Syrup.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS,—Superior Victorian Oat-
meal and Pearl Barley.
DILLON & BURROWS’’ prize assorted Confec-
tionery.
J. KITCHEN & SONS, No. 1 Mottled and Toilet
Soaps.
J. F. M’KENZIE & CO.'S Coffee, Mustard, Cocoa,
Tea, in and lib. packets ; dressed Rice,
and Patent Groats.
HUNT & CO.'S Prize Baking Powders, Adelaide
Jams Paper Bags, &c.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
Coolalta Wine, Bodega,
MORT'S PASSAGE, back of Messrs. W. H.
Paling and Co.’s.
Choicest Wines, by the glass or bottle, mav be had
at the Bodega. Hot Spiced Wines during Winter.
Open from 9 a.m. till 6 p.m.
DANCING.— Prof. WEST’S Classes. Pnvate
Lessons, Monday and Thursday mornings ;
afternoon classes, Thursdays. Evening: Beginners,
Mondays, 8 p.m.; Thursdays, 7.30 p.m.; Advanced,
8,30 p.m . at Tattersall's New Hall, Hunter-street.
Second term now commencing. During present
school holidays there will be time for private
lessons in new waltz, &c. 251 Elizabeth-street.
VW~ Tho Dancing Academy being the largest in
Sydney, there are now vacancies, quarter dating
from entrance.
THE AUSTRALIAN
Diamond Drill Company.
CONTRACTS will be undertaken by the above
Company to bore any sized holes, vertical or
horizontal, up to
3 INCHES, OR LARGER IF REQUIRED,
to any depth, at a reduction of 25 PER CENT
BELOW ANY PREVIOUS CHARGE.
The Company, in all cases, will find their own
fuel and water for drilling' purposes, and will make
no charge for loss of diamonds or wear and tear on
plant, and will also provide workmen engineers, &c.
The now duplex barrel, introduced into the
colony by Mr. J. Coghlan, will he used free of
charge to persons searching for minerals.
Mr. Coglan has every confidence, from his prac-
tical knowledge of the Diamond Drill, that ho will
be able to give general satisfaction, as well as quick
despatch to all orders addressed to the
Temporary Offices, 311 George-street.
JOHN COGHLAN,
General Manager, pro. tem.
Singer’s Sewing Machines.
TURNER & CO.
Are the Recognised Agents of the
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS:
2s. 6d. per week—2s. (id. per week—2s. 6d. per week.
And no interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE “SINGER,”
TURNER & COMPANY,
353 George-street.
THE ONLY “SINGER.”
Turner and Company,
OPPOSITE GENERAL POST OFFICE.
>
■
IE
ISF" VISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
FOR
CHEAPNESS, FIT, AND WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any
part of the Colony.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 Park Street,
IMPORTERS
of
PIANOS,
by every maker
of renown, from
£25 and up-
wards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
.1. MASSEY 7 & SON.
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY,
Pianos! Pianos! Pianos!
FREE TRADE and NO MONOPOLY.
Live and Let Live, these are Our Mottoes.
It is a weil-known fact that the Foundations of
Colossal fortunes have been established upon the
Profits arising trom the SALE OF PIANOS in this
City during the past Twenty Years by those
“V c °j I\° knowledge of the Construction
?>v,. De l ! , ulB , 01 th . e Pianoforte. While giving the
Public the benefit of our Mr. Young's 25 years’
personal practical experience (5 years in John
Broadwood and Sons, London, and 20 in N.S.W.),
we will, at the same time, be satisfied with a. fair
percentage on the Co-operative Principle, sharing
the Profits with our Customers. We will sell from
~5 per cent, less than the same class of Instrument
can be Purchased at any Music Shop in Sydney,
and we will offer nothing for Sale we cannot
guarantee. American Organs at proportionately
low prices. Also a Large Stock of Kohn’s Cele-
brated Austrian Furniture, a single article of
which we are selling at Wholesale Prices.
Come and See Our LITTLE BEAUTIES in Wal-
nut and f ull Iron Frame, at £25 cash, Eleswhere
£lO more, or under a Liberal Time Payment Sys-
George E. Young and Co.,
28 5 PITT STREET,
South of Royal Arcade.
B 1
iRACN’S WALTHAM WATCHES
TOOK FIRST PRIZE
And all the Gold Medals at every Exhibition.
MADE ESPECIALLY FOR
B. BRAUN,
Watchmaker, Jeweller, & Optician,
IST 376 GEORGE STREET,
Near the Post Office,
The Largest Stock of Waltham Watches in Svdnov
500 to select from. y
Silver Walt hams from £3 to £l2
Gold Walthams from £8 to £l5.
Warranted from two to seven years.
m~ Only at B. BRAUN, 878 George Street.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIARD’S SHORT HORN HOUR BON.-The
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia: it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOITNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
THE HARWOOD
Fibre Chair Seating,
Possessing all the qualities of a perfect seat, viz. ;
Strength, Durability, Ease, Beauty, Cleanliness
and Cheapness.
fl'H 18 CHA I II SEAT is made from the strongest
■ known fibres and a perfectly waterproof
cement, and after fifteen years’ constant use, we
can speak positively as to its merits. It cannot
split or check, neither will exposure to sun or rain
affect it.
Awarded Gold Modal at t be late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
For It E-SEATING it is unrivalled. In every
bouse, store and office, are chairs with seats broken.
Any person can re-seat and make as good as new a
chair that is otherwise worthless, at a very trifling
expense.
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE FOR HOME USE.
Agents Wanted in Every District.
From £3 to £3 a week can bo made by any smart
man or boy in bis own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
83 CLARENCE STREET.
rilO BE DISPOSED OF BY SUB-
-L SCRIPTION
on the
ART UNION PRINCIPLE,
1,15 non Pounds worth uf fi c nnn
JjIO,UUU Freehold Properties. <l/O,UUU
In 15,000 Shares of £1 Each
Ist Prize, £Booo Ilardwieke Estate, Yass, N.S.W..
3700 Acres.
2nd Prize, £3OOO, Farm, 800 Acres, near Gunning,
N.S.W.
3rd Prize, £3OOO, “ St. Kilda House,” Goulburn, 15
Rooms (insured £1000).
4th Prize, £BOO, “Two-storied House” in Clltford-
street, Goulburn.
sth Prize, £4OO
«th Prize, £l5O
7th Prize, £l3O
Bth Prize, £l3O
9th Prize, £B5
10th Prize, £75
11th Prize, £75
13th Prize, £75
13th Prize, £75
14th Prize, £35
15th Prize, £35
16th Prize, £35
The following gentlemen have consented to act as
Committee
J. T. GANNON Esq., M.L.A., Goulburn.
JOHN BADGERY, Esq., Sutton Forest.
A. M. BETTS, Esq., Solicitor, Goulburn.
* 9; COOPER, Esq., Willeroo, Lake George.
wrrvo DSD'S, Esq., Solicitor, Goulburn.
f- Esq., J.P., Goulburn,
fc. MEYER, Esq., J.P., Goulburn.
The DRAWING will take place in the Mechanics’
Institute, Goulburn, in the presence of the Com-
mittee, on 30th August next, and will be open to
the Shareholders.
For particulars see Prospectus, which may bo
had upon application to J. J. ROBERTS, Secre-
tary Box 33, Post-office. Goulburn. Local Agents
It L? appointed in most of the principal Towns of
N.S.W.
Send Stamp tor Prospectus.


ERMINED EMPIRICS.
The net result of the theories of wise men,
moulded into practical forms by eras of eA'peri-
ment. Is the thing: wo call law. Law is the safe-
guard of society. And, consequently, it should be
Interpreted and administered only by grave and
learned men—not so old that the blood be frozen In
their veins, and all human sympathy with it;
neither so young that it run too hotly, and carry
away their discretion. This is as it should be. Let
us see how it is.
♦ * *
Reverently we approach the august theme. It
is an audacious thing, and savouring almost of a
sacrilege, to board the elders in the gate. They are
venerably wigged and pompously ermincd. Hut
the outward bravery does not appal us. We hap-
pen to know that as Sampson carried all his strength
in his hair, there are many Judges who carry all
their law in their wig?. For this very reason we
hkvo always upheld the good old practice of wear-
ng wigs against anv attempted innovations
* * *
There are three kinds of Judges in the colonies:
Judges who know much, Judges who know little,
and Judges who know nothing. The majority
belong to the middle class. But there are empirics
—we are using this term in the common and not in
the strictly philosophical sense—in each class. We
hold that it takes more to make a Judge than a
mere knowledge of law. We hold that the idea
that a Judge should be as immovable as a Mem-
phian Sphinx, is utterly wrong. And we hold a
good deal more, as you will see if you will wait till
we come to it.
* * *
We will begin by taking a type of the first class
of Judge. And, in order that we may deal with
him the more impartially, we will say that he is at
present residing at the North Pole, where, be-
cause of his temperament, he is exceedingly
popular. Very well. He is a tish-bloodod man,
with a clear head and no heart—or none that has
yet been discovered. He is very clever and very
honest—as Judges go—and very unprepossessing.
But he has the virtue of knowing all about law.
He can walk through its labyrinth without a
thread. He bristles with points and precedents.
But he grovels before the fetish of the letter, and
is mental'y incapable of even understanding the
spirit, of the law. Whomsoever he condemns will
know that his law is good—which Is, in itself, a
comforting reflection. But there is nothing human
about this blue-lipped spectre. He is simply the
personification of the letter of the law. He is a
casuist, and casuistry almost always loans to the
side of cruelty. No red current of humanity runs
through his veins. His blood is iced water. A
woary-looking wizened creature this, who sweeps
a follow-creature out of existence with as passion-
less a face as though he were sweeping a pawn off
a chess-board.
• •
As we said before, we hold that legal knowledge
alone is not a sullicient qualification for the Judge-
ship. A Judge is one who uses, as well as pro-
nounces, judgment: and laws happen to be so
made that between minimum and maximum
penalties there is as great a gap as between earth
and sky. And the man without a heart always
leans to the maximum. He does so at first from a
sincere idolatry of the law in its sternest aspect.
The law is two-faced, like Janus, and this type of
Judge always offers sacrifice to the terrible face.
In time he obtains a reputation for impartiality
and sternness—the names which men give to piti-
lessness, till they fall into its clutches. He
is the Brutus of the Bench—a man who
would not spare his own son if that
son had transgressed the law. And this
Inexorability being universally credited to him,
becomes a fixed part of his character. From
thenceforth his own estimate of himself is that he
is an exceeding just Judge, Just, though stern.
This is the o-ying injustice—the cold mechanical
murder which is worse than brutal, in having no
consciousness. Such a man would abstain from
hanging his own fathex-—if convicted of a suffi-
cient crime—only because the father of sueh a man
would probably have been hanged long before.
• • •
Let us take a type of the second class of Judge—
the man who knows little. The amount of his
knowledge is a professional secret—and kept
such as a matter of esprltdu corps. Lawyers know
how little knowledge it is; but they don’t commu-
nicate this to the general public, because the
general public are made to be hoodwinked, and
lawyers are made to hoodwink them. Conse-
quently, the general public consider this kind of
Judge a prodigy of learning—for much the same
reason as drunken journalists ai’e considered clover.
Look at his features: low forehead, sensual lips,
heavy eyes, and a broad brutal Jaw. Here is a ease
of natural coarseness, coarsened still more by
gluttony. Look at him on the bench: bulky,
bux-ly, and blotchy-faced. If it were not
for his robes and wig, you would take him
for a prosperous burglar. The case which he
is trying is, we will suppose, one of mux-der. It
might be manslaughter; it might be justifiable
homicide. While the counsel on each side are
arguing and examining the witnesses, His Honoris
lolling about on the bench and picking his teeth,
Presently ho begins to fidget, and his dull eyes
begin to blaze; they look like two holes made for
the devil to glare from—as was once said of the
eyes of Judge Jeffreys. His Honor is in a hurry to
get to dinner. What is the use of sifting testimony
and fooling away the time of the Bench ? Guilty,
of course, gentlemen of the jury! When a fat
turkey is getting burnt on the spit, and the table
has been laid an hour, what is the life of a lout
that it should stand In the way of the pleasure of
his betters? The examination is over. The J udge
gallops through his summing up as fast as an
acolyte through his prayers. His curt, contemptu-
ous manner has its iutluence on the jury. The
reflected light of his importance shines on them.
The man is probably found guilty. Then, with a
grim humour entirely his own, he pronounces the
sentence of death, One miserable wretch more is
hurled into eternity, and His Honor goes home to
dine.
• • •
Eternity! The dreadful dark that yawns for the
dead! What does the Slotterhodge Selon, who sent
this man there, think of it? He has no time to
think of It. He is by this time too much engaged
with his dinner. What does he know, or if he did
know, what would he care for the possibilities that
were in the man lie so airily sentenced to a shame-
ful death. Nothing. Such considerations would
Interfere with his digestion.
* * *
The scriptural ideal of things is that every man
should sit under his own fig-tree. The judicial
ideal—of this kind of judge—is that every man, not
a judge, should shiver under the shadow of his own
gallows.
* * *
This sort of judge is merely a murderer with
opportunities.
• • •
For some offence—perhaps the first ever com-
mitted—he sends a man to prison for years, wind-
ing up the sentence with something sounding
strangely like a brutal joke. If one kindly word
had been said the future of that man might have
been altered. But the word is not said. And so
the man goes to prison; and, perhaps, having
had such provocation to crime as make; him more
sinned against than sinning, and being, as all men
are, prone to excuse himself, he broods in his cell
upon the inhumanity of man to man, and the
black venom gathers in his heart. He proclaims in
his soul a vendetta against all authority from
thenceforth. When that man comes out of gaol,
what depth of degraded villainy may he not de-
scend to ? He may even become a policeman.
Things nearly as terrible as this have occurred
through lack of a kindly word when it was most
needed.
• ■
Type three—third class: The Judge who knows
nothing. This is a callow creature, of the Justice
Shallow kind. He has frequently the excuse of
being young, but this only lasts while his youth
lasts, and age does not bring him wisdom. We have
our mental eye on an individual of this kind at
this very minute. We will say—just to make
things pleasant for all parties—that he is at
present advertising his Incapacity In the island of
Flim-Flam, Ho is little more than a boy
In years, and little less than an angel in
innocence. How he got his appointment is one
of that sort of mysteries which have grown too
common to be wondered at. Anyhow, young
Justice Shallow goes off on his new circuit, with
his wig and his whiskers and his conceit, deter-
mined to make a fool of Solomon by comparison.
The first case of any importance he has to try is
one of horse-stealing. Let us imagine the scene.
A large part of the island of Flim-Flam is in pos-
session of wealthy land-owners. They breed horses
and other things. Now, a horse to them is worth
money; whereas, the man who steals their horse is
worth nothing—to them, Very well. It is ad-
visable that that man should be punished to the
full extent of the law, in order to discom - age
others from committing the like robbery. Never
mind if the horse is a scrubber, and valued at little
more than the worth of his hoofs and hide. Never
mind if the man who steals him lias a wife and
family, who will starve if he be sent to gaol. It is
the principle of the thing: Vie must be punished
on principle. And so they ask the judicial
suckling, who has been sent among them to re-
present the majesty of the law, to dinner.
And when he goes, they treat him with a sarcastic
respect which he takes as real, and plumes and
ruffles himself greatly in consequence, The con-
versation turns upon the state of the country, and
his hosts with insidious flattery affect to consider
that he knows more about it than they do them-
selves. with an “of course we needn’t tell you ”
and “ this sort of thing is no news to you,” joined
with a pretence of considering him one of their
own class, and, consequently, possessing all Its
prejudices against the lower orders, which com-
pletely turns his head. Then, after dinner, when
flushed with wine, he smirks with mystic grimness,
as if to imply “ Let me alone, gentlemen—let me
alone—and see if I don’t soon settle the hash of the
lower orders.” And then audible whispers buzz
around the table, such as “ This is the sort of man
we’ve been wanting;” “This is something like a
Judge,” and so on.
• * i
Shortly after, a man is tried for horse-stealing.
Justice Shallow sentences him to ten year* impri-
sonment !
* * *
Now, what we have to say is this. That the two
latter classes of Judge—the class that knows little,
and the class that knows nothing—should cease to
judge, and bo brought to judgment.
« • •
The Judge who knows much and is callous—the
man who has judged men so long that he has for-
gotten his humanity—should be sent into obscurity;
and he should be sent so far into it that he could
never see the light again.
* •
Finally. This is our last word. We would advise
that a law should be made, whereby, at the expira-
tion of a certain number of years in office, a rope
should be sent to criminal Judges, to do the same
with it as Turkish Pashas do with the bow-string.
8. A. Jubilee International Exhibition
Committee hard at work. S.A. Jubilee means a
very big bill-ee, ,iu bet.
A Tam worth paper says that Pastor Allen
is new a lire insurance agent. We don’t believe it.
But let us trot out an old joke. Does the Pastor
insure against fire—in the next world ?
“Sweet girl graduates’* in law sounds all
right, but there is a sweet girl attorney in America
who wouldn’t reverence even the splendid talents
and higl) lineage of our own Jo. This fair
creature was always having tiffs with the Judge,
probably because when he asked her to state her
reasons‘she used to reply, with a tightening of her
rosebud lips, “Just because. So there, now 1”
The other day a prisoner said (very naturally) that
he would like to have Miss Kate—which her name
is Kate Kane, attorney—to defend him. The Judge,
however, was “not friends” with Kate, who, per-
haps, had refused to let him kiss her behind the
Bench. So he assigned the defence to another
lawyer. A day or,so later, the lovely attorney
entered the court-house, and took a seat beside the
clerk in front of the Judge’s desk. Miss Kate
looked at him a few minutes, and then suddenly
rose and seized a large inkstand from the desk.
The inkstand slipping from her hands, she next
caught up a glass of water. The Judge’s attention
was attracted by her movements, and, as he turned
his head, Miss Kate throw the contents of the glass
in his face, wetting his clothes als >. This sin-
gular mode of “throwing cold water on his suit”
made the Judge vexed. He never told his love,
but on the com vary he ordered the officer to arrest
Miss Kate. After she had been placed in the
prisoner’s dock, he immediately sentenced her lor
contempt of court to pay a tine of £lO and to stand
committed to the county gaol until that sum
should be forthcoming. That is all of the story
that has reached us, and wo admit it ends tantaliz-
ingly, One would have liked to know whether the
Judge went down to taunt his victim through
the grating in the cell door, was melted by her
beautiful distress and lovely deshabille, got married
to her by the gaol chaplain, and was mmediately
arrested on his own warrant as the person respon-
sible for payment of the fine inflicted on his wife;
or whether tne other chap came along, paid the
fine, released Kate, and presented her *n their
wedding day with a pair of slippers made out of
the Judge's skin.
The Westekn Champion (Blackall, Q.) evi-
dently thinks the Queensland trooper's life a happy
one. It says“ We admire the Queensland police
for their soldierly bearing, their graceful uniform,
and the happy style in whicn they do nothing. . .
There are several black troopers in Blackall, whose
duty seems to bo principally to wait upon their
white comrades-in-arms, take and fetch their
horses to and fro, and act as outriders or gillies (a
description of aboriginal John Brown) when the
Inspector of Police drives out of doors in his car-
riage. It is a gay and picturesque sight to see
these brave fellows in uniform perched Behind the
Inspector’s buggy, or waiting at the horses’ heads
as the great man trots his family around, but the
public would like to know why they arc taxed to
pay for this grand display.”
We have just received from the compose!*.
Signor Nozze Roberto, a copy of the popular song,
“ Let me Hog him for his Father.” The melody is
written in A flat, with a plaintive triplet accom-
paniment, and the composition is respectfully
dedicated to the Hon. Alexander Stuart. There
are 36 beats to every bar, and the sons' must un-
doubtedly “ take well, and give great pleasure to
all”—tear one.
Human nature varies very little. The
Rev. James Gilmour, in a recent work, "Among
the Mongols,” narrates how these people pray by
machinery, and concludes thus: “ The worshippers
really believe that this charm-repeating and wheel-
turning and liag-tluttering makes merit which
cancels sin. They live in this belief, and they die
with this lie in their right hand. This idea, too, is
the cause of much sin. Relieving, as he does, that
this merit cancels sin, a Mongol aims not at leaving
sin and being holy, but at providing for plentv of
merit to counterbalance his sin, and thinks that,
the more religious he is, he can afford to sin the
more, Just as the man who has most money can
afford to spend the most.” There are a lot of
Mongols in the Sydney churches.
Were the Electric Telegraph Office, Mel -
bourne, a private establishment, ’twould be in-
dicted as a nuisance. ’Tis, probably, the shabbiest,
coldest, dirtiest, ramshaeklest crib in Australia.
Inside and outside it has the look of a plague-
stricken pawn-shop. Who manages the Victorian
Telegraph Department ? The Postmaster-General,
the hangman, or the undertaker’s mummy ? \V ho-
ever bosses it, ’tis not creditable to Melbourne that
a body of its most intelligent officials (and the
Melbourne operators are admitted to be about the
smartest in Australia) should be boxed up in
such a godforsaken hole. Why the dickens don’t
they strike ?
The foreign press has been terribly severe
on the majority who rejected the Affirmation Bill.
The Joubnae de Geneve says: “In a few years
the debate will be remembered only as it was the
occasion of the most magnificent defence of liberty
of conscience ever spoken by human lips.” The
Neue Freie PRESSEsays: “Not only Mr. Gladstone
and his party were defeated, but also English
liberty and progress, by religious prejudice. Those
who triumphed are the same who, refusing Lord
Byron a place in Westminster Abbey, have earned
for the British peoples reputation for ingratitude,
bigoted narrow-mindedness, and exclusive de-
votion to material interests. It is no question be-
tween Conservatives and Liberals, but of a nation’s
rights.” The Republiqub Fbancaise says: “Our
neighbours across the Channel, so ready to thank
Heaven that they are not like the miserable
French nation, must allow us to observe, with the
humbleness suited to us poor republicans, that no
other country except England could have pre-
sented to the world a spectacle so strange, so
ridiculous, so saddening, as that which occurred
the other night. To find in this world an Assembly
of Pharisees, one must repair to the banks of the
Thames and the precincts of Westminster Palace.”
It is not generally known —and our dream
is to instruct—that at all the gambling places on
the Continong gas is religiously eschewed in the
rooms where roulette and trenle-et-quarante are
carried on. This is ever since some speculators
turned off the meter at Homburg, and made a grab
at the “sugar.” And they got some, but not
much: and they subsejuently got “lumbered.”
The croupiers employed are us. ally men of great
nerve. They are recruited from the ranks of
broken-down noblemen, broken-up barristers, and
gamblers with “systems” who have played long
enough to lose all their money, but not to shake
their faith in their “ martingales.” We went to all
the kuisaals, until we got good; and since we have
sat under Mr. Jefiferis, we have never ceased to
deplore our erstwhile depravity. The most pic-
turesque of all the hells is that of Savon-les-
bains, near Chamouni, in Switzerland. It is in
a lonely valley, surrounded by mountains of
snow, upon which every colour lingers, every
shade reposes. The place consists simply of a
large hotel and a casino, the latter built on the
chalet plan. There is a mineral spring here, which
people drink and batho in, and which is said to
cure all sorts of curious complaints. It doesn’t
cure t'lern, of course; but people go there, bathe
in the morning, and punt for louis and five-franc
pieces in the afternoon, and the excitement con-
sequent on the latter amusement causes them to
forget their ills for the time being. At Monaco
and Monte Carlo, the maximum stake allowed is
.£4OO, which, however, can be increased at the
option of the taiUeur. The minimum stake allowed
is sfrs. So, therefore, you can double eleven
times only, with, of course, the chance of zero
coming up to take half your stake, and with
generally disastrous results; for not uufrequently
a colour will run thirteen, or even fourteen,
times. This doubling, however, is a mania.
Some years ago tnere arrived at Savon a
young Russian Prince and a friend. It was
winter time, and he had the usual furs and
diamonds, and furthermore a good deal of ready
money. He was very young, not more than 18,
while his companion—who was suspected to be
either a valet or a tutor—was a person of 40, and of
Jesuitical appearance. The Prince commenced to
play after dinner, placing 100 fr. notes on numbers;
and his luck was marvellous. He won quite 10,000
frs. in half an hour. The next day he encountered
in the Gardens an Austrian Countess of the
“ Cruche-Cass<Se ” type, who indueed him to try
“the middle column.” From that moment the
Prince went all to pieces. We watched his career
with interest. Rings went first, and then even his
magnificent fur pelisse was seen no more. One
night, when he was completely dicavi, he pulled
out his watch and wished to stake it against £4O.
This was, of course, refused. Becoming violent,
the head-croupier ordered the gend’armes to re-
move him. On this, he struck the croupier in the
face. They had a meeting next day, five miles off,
and before the swords were measured, it transpired
that the croupier was a German Baron who was
himself epm of the Austrian Countess. They
fought, and after a most desperate encounter, the
croupier was stabbed through the neck and killed.
Then the tutor, or whatever he was, fled by way of
Lausanne into Germany, leaving the Prince penni-
less and pelisse-less to be arrested at Savon. He
was kept in durance for two days, when a com-
missary of police (Swiss) appeared on the scene and
took him off by the train—no one knew whither.
Yet it was remarked that he had his diamonds and
furs, and that he appeared in excellent spirits. The
next appearance in public of this young gentleman
was at St. Petersburg, where ho “ carried on ” with
Josephine Mansfield, of Fisk - murder notoriety,
and there distinguished himself by stealing a lot of
the Grand Duke Michael’s jewels, and running off
with Josephine to Paris. Where he is now, Heaven
only knows 1 Or the other place.
A VEGETABLE HASH.
A potato once went on a mash,
And sought an onion bed;
“That’s the pie for me,” observed the squash.
As all the beets turned red.
“ Go ’way,” the onion, weeping, cried;
“ Your love I cannot be:
The pumpkin be your lawful bride—
You canteloupe with me!”
But onward still the tuber came,
And laid down at her feet;
“You cauliflower by any name,
And it will smell as wheat;
And I, too, am an early rose,
And you I’ve come to see;
Do not turnip your lovely nose,
But spinachat with me.”
“ I do not carrot all to wed;
So go, sir, if you please,”
The modest onion meekly said,
“ And let us, pray, have peas!
Go, think that you have never seen
Myself or smelled my sigh;
Too Jong a maiden I have bean
For favour in your rye.”
“ Ah, spare a cuss,” the tuber prayed;
“ My cherrysbed bride you’ll be I
You are the only weeping maid
That’s currant now with me.”
And as the wily tuber spoke
He caught her by surprise,
And giving her an artichoke,
Devoured her with his eyes.
Greek Song.
Though our footsteps still moved to the Pyrrhic,
’Twere to peace on some pastoral floor;
Though a Pindar rolled out the loud lyric
’Twould stir us to battle no more.
We are passed in the page of life’s story,
The nations have left us behind.
And who once were the foremost in glory
Are shackled in muscle and mind.
But though glory and greatness have left us,
And the form of our outward hath changed,
Time hath failed in one thing, nor bereft us
Of love, nor from loving estranged.
For high love, the eternal, is master
Of time, as of men, and shall be
A star fixed above life’s disaster
To pilot both fallen and free.


Foster’s Bugle Brand.
CrSbletST - Hotel
CORNER CASTLEREAGH & BATHURST
STREETS, SYDNEY.
JAMES SHARP,
Late of the Collonnade Hotel, corner of King and
Castlereagh Streets, desires to Inform his friends
and the public generally, that he has removed to
the above Hotel, which has been lately known as
the “ Hyde Park Hotel,” and which ne has tho-
roughly renovated. J, S. trusts that, by his usual
strict attention to business, combined with the best
brands of Wines, Spirits, &0., to merit a fair share
of patronage. J. S. desires to state that he still
draws the famous
“SILVER CUP BEER.”
Ktss^cudu'^i^oji
32 COLLEGE STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
i ■ TEETH on the mostapproved Eng-
hsh Principles, Fitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastica-
tion, Natural Appearance, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping, Scaling, and Extractions skilfully
performed.
A MASCOTTE CONSULTATIONS.
METROPOLITAN, & MELBOURNE CUP, 1883.
Metropolitan, 5000 shares at 10s. each ... £2600
Melbourne Cup, 10,000 shares at 10s. each £5OOO
ASK FOR
Olfrfytgbtontt
LATE
JAMES WALKER
EDINBURGH
K\
GKI
Registered
TO be had from ALL WINE AND SPIRIT MER-
CHANTS, and WHOLESALE from the
SOLE AGENTS:
JOSEPH BOYD & SON,
1 CHANGE ALLEY, PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Near the Circular Quay).
To be procured in Cases, Casks, Octaves, and Jars
„ Please read Certificates of its purity ; also.
Certificates from the 42nd Royal Highland Regl-
THE BLACK WATCH,” andtheTlst High-
tavtt?l?wl•“supplied them by
JAMES WALKER, tor J 4 years, till his death, and
still supplied to them by JAMES HADDOW & CO.,
the purchasers of James Walker’s business, with
the right to use his name on all Labels, Invoices.
Seals, and his Trade marks and symbols.
Notice—The above label registered.
JOSEPH BOYD & SON.
WRIGHT, HEATON & GO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE :
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
/
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.S.W.:
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Link:
Brisbane Yeulba
Roma Cambooya
Dalby
Central Line:
Rockhampton Capelia
Bogantungan Comet
Emerald
Northern Line:
Townsville Ravenswood Junction
Charters Towers
Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M CULLOCH & CO., LIMITED.^
J3Y" Agencies In all parts of the world.
STUDY ECONOMY,
and
H ave you rU mbrella Frara es
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
cuted.
UMBRELLAS
RECOVERED.
AND
omiir
//
HU
ND ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
isiiffi
D. & R. BRADFORD,
Ironfounders, General
Blacksmiths, &c.,
“CITY FOUNDRY,”
121 LIVERPOOL STREET
and at
201 ELIZABETH STREET,
Between Bathurst and Park Streets.
All kinds of Ornamental Castings, Wrought Iron
Pallsadings, Wrought and Cast Iron Girders, Cast
Iron Water Pipes, Connections, Water and Fire
Plugs.
Estimates given tor all kinds of Ironwork. &o.
K
IRKER, GREER, & CO., DISTILLERS
BELFAST and GLASGOW.
LOCH DHU, very oldest and purest Scotch
Whiskey.
SHAMROCK, very oldest and purest Irish
Whiskey.
Won 4 Gold Medals and Australian Exhibitions.
Government Analyst says: Unusually pure,
mellow, and well-matured.
FROM ALL SPIRIT MERCHANTS.
Agent: G. ADAMS,
119 Pitt-st., Sydney, and Flinders-st., Melbournne
“THE CRITERION,’’
15 Royal Arcade 15.
FIRST-CLASS LUNCHEON and REFRESHMENT
ROOMS for LADIES and GENTLEMEN.
The comfort of Ladies has been especially attended
to. An ELEGANTLY-FURNISHED APARTMENT
has been set aside for their sole use. It will be
supplied with writing materials, daily papers,
journals, &c., &c.
Gentlemen in town can obtain, AT ALL HOURS,
COLD LUNCHEONS—Ham, Beef, Tongue, Sar-
dines, Salads, Hard-boiled Eggs, &c., &c.
Cup of Tea or Coffee, with Light Refreshment,
6d.; equal in every respect to the celebrated
“CRITERION” BUFFET, LONDON.
Celebrated American Iced Drinks.
EDWARD MAWBY,
Proprietor.
BLEND
[trade]
MARK]
COLLIE BLEND WHTSKY.-Thls is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
P. K I BBT,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TJ ao.d.erta]s:er,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED,
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr, James Curtis for sixteen (1(5) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
JOHN DANKS,
IMPORTER OF
Bicycles ail Tricycles
and all the necessary
Fittings for same,
363 Pitt Street, Sydney.
M.B. FOSTER & SONS
27 Brook St Bond St London
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ys in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
KXHItlt
w.
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T, GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Genova.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
Sole Agent for
W, & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &c.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET.
N.B.— Second-hand Guns by best makers.
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
TO CONNOISEURS of WHISKEY & BRANDY.
W. & A. Gilley’s CASTLE BRAND WHIS-
KEY and L’OR EXTRAIT BRANDY are the
oldest and purest spirits imported.
TUCKER & CO., Agents,
377 George-street.
HUST’S BOOT EMPORIUM, 404 George St.,
near King-street.
Gents’ Boots, French Calf or Kid, superior quality,
from 10s. 6d.
Superior Ladies’ Extra High Glace Kid Button
Boots, superior quality, from 10s. 6d.
Ladies’ Evening Shoes, a great variety, from 4s. 6d.
M ELBOURNE CUP, 1883
LEVIATHAN “ADAMASTOR” COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £20,000 in 40,000 SHARES of 10s Each.
624 PRIZES (more or less), £12,750 for STARS,
and £7250 tor HORSES.
Plan of Astronomical Distribution:
First Horse (winner of the Melbourne Cup)..
Second Horse
Third Horse
Starters (divide)
Non-starters (do)
£3OOO
1500
750
800
1200
*** First Star
*** Second Star ..
*** Third Star ..
£2OOO **♦
1000 ***
500 V
12 stars of £2OO each, 100 stars of £lOO each, 20
stars of £5O each, 20 stars of £4O each, 45 stars of £25
each, 100 towns of £lO each, 200 towns of £8 each,
85 towns of £6 each, and “ the comet ” £4O.
“ Adamastor,” in thanking his subscribers for the
liberal support that he has received from them for
the past three years, and in consequence of the
yearly increase of subscribers, finds ft necessary to
double his programme, which he begs herewith to
submit.
All parties are requested to forward drafts, P.O.
orders, or cheques; if cheques, exchange must be
added, and in all cases postage fees; if cash, to
register letter. Application by letter only, ad-
“ ADAMASTOR,” care of L. A. Pereira, 34
Bourke-street, west, Melbourne; Box 473, G.P.0.,
Sydney; and Little’s Bass Hotel, corner Pitt and
Market Streets, Sydney.
P.S.—Results sent to country shareholders, and
published in The Australasian, Age, and Sydney
Town and Country.
SYDNEY.
Metropolitan Stakes.
Ist Horse £5OO
2nd
3rd „
Starters ..
Non-starters
Prize Gifts
350
135
150
300
1375
£3500
MELBOURNE.
Cup.
Ist Horse
2nd „
3rd „
Starters
Non-starters
Prize Gifts
£3OOO
1000
500
300
300
1000
Prospectus on application.
The La Mascotte Company thanks the public for
their support in previous consultations, and hopes
tor a continuance of their patronage for this pro-
gramme.
Application, by letter only.
Applicants please state for which event.
D. UNDO,
Box 723, P. 0.;
And Eastway’s Hotel, King-street, Sydney.
_O3OOO on MELBOURNE CUP.
2888 *
The Third Consultation of my 1883 Series.
“AUSTRALASIA” SWEEP.
12,000 Shares, at 5s each.—An even 4. £l.
First Horse .. £lOO
Second Horse .. r>o
Third Horse .. 2a
Starters divide ..
Non-Starers .. 10(
Total. £2OOO.
10
so
50
Prizes at £25—£250
.. 10- 500
.. 5 250
„ £lOOO
Grand total, £3OOO
me success ot former events induces me to an-
nounce the next on the Melbourne Cup, the
greatest racing event ot the year, as above.
Results advertised in leading papers, and for-
warded to all subscribers. A pound secures four
chances— not one only. Ten per cent, is deducted
for all expenses. Applicants are requested to en-
close notes, P. 0.0., or crossed cheques (to which
exchange must be added), and 4d. stumps fot renJv
and result. Register letters. 1 r
Address—“ AUSTRALASIA,”
Care of Mr. H. J. FRANKLIN,
Printer and Publisher,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
66
I A M O N D.’
LBOURNE CUP CONSULTATION 1883.
Capital £lO,OOO In 20,000 Shares of 10 shillings eaob
DISTRIBUTED AS FOLLOWS:—
First Horse.. .. £3OOO
Second Horse .. 3000
Third Horse .. 1000
Starters divide.. 1000
Non-starters .. 500
3 Prizes of £350 each, £5OO
5 Prizes of 100 „ 500
10 Prizes of 60 „ 500
20 Prizes of 25 „ 500
50 Prizes of 10 „ 500
£lO,OOO
Application by 1 etteiMml^^ oslng stamp, to
Care of O. Schieblich.
Watchmaker and Jeweller,
17 Little Collins-street East, Melbourne,
(Near Colonial Bank.)
Prizes paid one day after drawing, and Horses
paid two days after event.
Result slips posted to each Subscriber, and also
advertised in daily and weekly papers. Shares sent
per return post. Prospectus on application.
Letters containing cash should be registered.
If country cheques, must bear exchange.
N.B.—“Diamond,” in thanking numerous clients
for their support in previous successful racing
seasons, invites their co-operation in the above.
£3OOO
For 2s. ft (I.
£3OOO
A COLOSSAL FORTUNE for HALF-A-CROWN
The “ GREAT VICTORY ” SWEEP on the MEL-
BOURNE CUP, 1881
To be Run on the 6th November.
This Gigantic Sweep, offering advantages to the
public never before attempted, is the property of
a bond fide Company with responsible directors.
CAPIT'AL: 4*10,000, divided into 80,000 Shares of
3s. 6d. each.
Also, over 1000 Prizes guaranteed, and distributed
as follows:
Ist horse .. .. £3OOO
2nd horse .. .. 1000
3rd horse .. .. 500
Starters divide .. 500
Non-starters do. .. 250
20 Prizes at £5O .. 1000
we snail send 9 tickets for a pound. Not less
than 2 sent to any single address. Send P. O. order
cheques, or bank notes. If stamps are sent, add
exchange at the rate of Is. in the pound. Should
coin be sent, register letter. Please send 3d. extra
for membership.
The drawing will take place on the Ist November,
and will be conducted by a committee of 150 Share-
holders drawn from the entire body. The result
will be posted to all Shareholders immediately,
and advertised throughout the colonies.
Tickets sent by return post.
Write at once for No charge.
Care of George Robertson, 91 Bourke-street.
Next Opera House, Melbourne.


“One bottle did it” is the expression
(according to a Public Benefactress) of many who
have had their bald spot covered with hair: it is
also the expression or many a poor wretch who
has been tempted to ncgotiaf e to his own cheek a
pint measure of a certain restaurateur’s Chablis.
Rear-Admiral Morseby has evidently met
“Manchester,” since he says: “If New Guinea is
allowed to pass into the hands of Queensland, I, as
one who has seen something - of her ‘ native labour,’
feel sure that the rights of the natives of New
Guinea and their future happiness will be well
cared for.' ’ The poor devils’ “future happiness
quit© so.
It is interesting to find, in so far away an
organ as theREPUBLiQUE Franchise, a perception
of political probabilities which runs on all-fours
with ideas to which wo have more than once given
expression. The Parisian paper says“ The qucs-
tone of the native Press, and especially of the ver-
nacular newspapers, is far from conciliatory- Some
of the Bengalese journals have published most
scurrilous libels on Englishmen generally, as well
as on individuals. When it is recollected that those
vernacular newspapers are read by thousands of
ignorant people, who accept their wildest state-
ments as true, some idea may be formed of the
extent of the mischief which such writings are
likely to produce.”
The hanging of Brady for his participation
in the Phoenix Park murders adds another to the
list of many notable executions that have taken
place in the month of May. Among these May
executions were those of Garnet, tho Gunpowder
Plot conspirator, hanged in St. Paul’s Churchyard
on the 3rd May, 1806; Captain Kidd, the famous
pirate, on the 33rd May, 1701; Vaughan, the first
forger of Bank of England notes, on the 11th May,
1760; Bellingham, for the murder of Mr. Perceval,
mite Mandarins, by Europeans. As regarded the
internal resources and wealth of the country they
were boundless. Numerous mountain ranges ex-
isted, whose slopes could be turned to good ac-
count, and there was an abundance of forests.
The embouchure of the Red River presented a delta
as fertile as that of Egypt. Sugar, eolfee, cotton,
and tobacco flourished, and their culture was sus-
ceptible of great development, while the cultiva-
tion of tea would also afford excellent results.
The mineral wealth of Tonquin, Yunnan, etc., was
even superior to their agricultural capabilities.
M. Millot stated that gold was abundantly dis-
covered in the mountains and rivers, and asserted
that the gold fields would rival any yet discovered.
Silver, copper, lead, zinc, iron, mercury, and bis-
muth also existed in the largest proportions.
pauper landlords who infest Koine.” Some truth
in that, mind you! The comments of the
American papers upon the Philadelphia Con-
vention are so favourable that many copies
of newspapers are being sent to England.
Patrick Egan alone sent some hundreds to
the prominent ollicials in the old country ...
New York, Pennsylvania, and Massachusetts, are
the principal Irish States in the American Republic.
New York State has 5,082,871 inhabitants, of whom
499,845 wero born in Ireland. In Pennsylvania the
numbers are 4,282,894, and 286.505; and the propor-
tion in Massachusettes is 1,783,085 to 236,(00. But,
in the last-named State, there are also about
514,000 persons of Irish parentage, and equivalent
numbers in the other two... During 1882, the
emigrants from Germany, chiefly to the United
States, numbered 169,084. besides 24,643 who sailed
from Antwerp Henri Cin<i, the Comto de
tion is whether the Radicals will succeed in gaining:
many seats in the general elections. If they are a
considerable minority capable of becoming a
majority, there will no longer be Whigs and Tories,
but only Conservatives and Radicals, and then
England will have set before her the problem of a
pui’e Democracy. The contest will be an ardent
one, and the more so that probably Mr, Gladstone
will not preside over it.
Tbe Calcutta correspondent of the Times,
who does not allow his anxiety for the sale of loyal
Indian tea to distort his view of what is passing in
India, thus writes relative to the situation in
Bengal:—“ln view of the course whichtho native
agitators have thought tit to take, it is not a matter
for surprise that the relations between the two
races daily become more strained. There is every
prospect that the words of the Lieutenant-Gov-
ernor, in the debate of 9th March—‘the last state
will be worse than the first’—will prove true. The
at the Old Bailey, on the 18th May, 1812; the Cato-
street conspirators—Thistlewood, Brunt, Davidson,
Ings, and Tldd—at the Old Bailey, on the Ist May,
1830; and James Geeenacre, for the murder of
Hannah Brown, on the 2nd May, 1837. One of the
most terrible executions on record took place in
France on the 27th May, 1610, when Kavaillac was
put to death with the most elaborate tortures for
the murder of King Henry IV.
Tonquin really seems a prize worth burg-
ling, ifFrench accounts may be relied upon. At a
scientific conversazione in Paris in May, M. Millot
said the cl'mate of Tonquin was superior to that of
Cochin-China, and was dry and healthy for more
than six months every year. The population of
Tonquin per se was 10,000,000, but by the incorpora-
tion of adjacent provinces now independent, it
could be increased by half. The inhabitants were
docile and well-disposed (humph!), and would be
glad to be released from the tyranny of the Anna-
T. M. Healy, late member for Wexford,
returned tor Monaghan, vice Givau appointed
Crown Solicitor for Ireland Rohlls, the German
African explorer, shrieks in the A. Z exiting that
the watchword of Vaterland must be “ Freedom to
the navigation of the Congo under the protection
of international laws.” What would he say if the
watchword of somebody else’s Yaterland was
“ Freedom to the navigation of the Elbe ?” etc—
Thus John Dillon, late M.P for Tipperary, anent
the Pope’s circular to the Irish bishops:—“This
circular, outraging as it does the political convic-
tions of more than half the Irish bishops and of
nine-tenths of the Irish priests and Catholic people,
has been issued at the request of the English
Government, and for the miserable clique of
Chambord, dies of cancer in the stomach, the
disease which killed the great Napoleon. But
cancer is not particular; a little man suits it just
as well as a great one The U.S. census shows
that the black race is multiplying more rapidly
than the white. In three States it outnumbers the
white, and in four others nearly equals it, In 1870
there were 4,880,000 negroes in the country; in 1880
there were 6,577,000, an increase of 1,497,000 or 35 per
cent.
A Sydney chop is a thing which has no
peculiarity, unless the butcher-boy has washed his
hands.
SO.
Virtue has long since Hod away,
Vice only rules the world to-day.
If these things be, as some have said,
God has grown poor, or else is dead.
SOME OBJECTIONABLE RELATIVES.
Lachrymos brother-in-law (by his
first marriage) who has lost six
consecutive wives and who
finds such comforty in
coming to your
house to weep copiously
at each fresh bereavement
Rather pretty but distant relative of
your wife - objectionable, strangely
enough, only to the latter
This is a half
Aunt with a re-markable memory. Why
Bless you! She can remember dis -
your great grandfather who came over with
William the Convict
Relative by maŕiage in point of fact your mother-
in-law very very objectionable
Talented cousin who
writes "little things of
his own" and wants
your opinion
an adipose Aunt so fond of
boating and comes to your hous frequent-
ly for a week on the water with her dear
nephew
The Vigorous old fool of an uncle
who ought to have died
twenty years ago and
left you that 5000
