

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 1.—No. 21.—New Series
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1883.
Price—6d.
THE CIRCULATION OF “THE BULLETIN ”
IS NOW MORE THAN DOUBLE THAT OF
ANY OTHER WEEKLY NEWSPAPER IN
N.S. W.—THAT OF ONE VERY OLD ESTAB-
LISHED PAPER, WHICH EXCEEDS “ THE
BULLETINS ” BY ABOUT ONE-FIFTH,
ALONE EXCEPTED. THE CIRCULATION
OF “ THE BULLETIN" IS THE SECOND
GREATEST AMONG THE WEEKLIES OF
AUSTRALASIA.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1883.
A Mission to the Heathen.
Moralists and satirists unnumbered have
exercised their fancy by imagining in what
aspect society would present itself to the
impressions of a totally unprejudiced ob-
server. Be it noted, en passant, that there
is no incongruity in coupling moralists with
satirists. A man may be a moralist without
being a satirist, or a satirist without being a
moralist. But satire is a frequently-used
e: gine of the moralist; and, in fact, where
a man’s mind is keenly susceptible to con-
trasts, hismoralizings naturally tend towards
the satirical form. Oliver Goldsmith,
seeking an apposite sort of individual, in
whose mouth unprejudiced comment might
seem fairly natural, hit upon a Chinese gen-
tleman as his Citizen of the World. Swift re-
versed the process, and feigned to present to
an ordinary member of the society of his
day a parody or burlesque of the conditions
actually prevailing in common life. Neither
conception was entirely satisfactory, and
others have introduced an inhabitant of the
planet Jupiter, or a man from the moon, as
terrestrial visitors; while others, again, have,
in latest times, hit upon the idea, pictorially
represented in another page of this issue, of
a missionary trom barbarian parts descend-
ing within the precincts of “civilization.”
This is a shocking satire. What can we want
with missionaries ? We are a civilized people,
a Christian community. We are positively
so redundantly favoured that our civilization
is brimming over. We are so thoroughly
Christian that we have Christianity
beyond our own requirements. We
are so sensible of our superabundant
ovilization that we feel it incumbent
upon us to distribute our surplus. We ex-
port our superfluous civilization, and make
up cargoes of our spare Christianity, for
bestowal upon, the Heathen. Reverend and
self-sacrificing men, satisfied that no duty
remains unfulfilled at home, turn their holy
backs upon our slums and alleys, where
virtue abounds and there is scarcely a
human being who is not familiar with the
sacred name of Christ —embodied in an
imprecation. Leaving behind them the
civilized Christians who throng in these
quan.ers within easy access of churches and
bibles, and rum, and pawnshops, and cess-
pits, the glorious army of martyrs sallies
forth to wrestle with Satan in groves of
palm and isles of eternal summer, where, in
uinety-nine cases out of a hundred, they
have little difficulty in convincing the simple
Heathen that they are Ambassadors of the
Almighty, and entitled to be treated accord-
iugly.
• • ■
It is a terrible and trying ordeal for the
good missionaries, no doubt. Let us con-
sider . They abandon the joys of civilization,
und leave to the accomplishment of their
sure and certain” salvation whole congeries
of their own people so saturated with Chris-
lanity and civilization that if they have
occasion to tell a lie with special solemnity
they never fail to call upon God to witness
their perjury, and are not for a moment at
a loss for a police-court to witness this exer-
cise of their religion. They leave behind
civilized gaols, civilized insolvency courts,
civilized policemen, civilized soldiers, and
civilized wenches made necessary by the
maintenance of these celibate fighting
men, civilized courts of law wherein
Christian men lie for hire and thereby
attain honour and distinction. Oh! the
missionary leaves behind all the evidences
of a perfect community, where they can
find no duties amongst filth, moral and
material. This is fortunate, for duties which
would involve daily contact with filth, moral
and material, and lifelong wrestling with
indurated wickedness and villainy, would
be tasks infinitely more arduous, more try-
ing, more wearisome, more revolting, than
figuring as demigods and vieing with chiefs
in influence and consideration, among sim-
ple, skull-cracking, but trusting and im-
pressionable children of nature in balmy
isles, could ever be. So the good men go
forth, with clear consciences and brave
hearts, to their holy work among the clean,
contented savages, leaving behind them the
perlected work—a Christian community of
civilized people revelling in the odour of
sanctity and of gutters. They carry the
glad tidings far and wide. They compass
sea and land to make proselytes —and native
servants—in Madagascar. They penetrate
the sources of the Nile, and occasionally—as
happened the other day—flog a female pro-
selyte or so to death, for backsliding, or
neglect of duty as native servant. They
are conspicuous just now in the New
Hebrides, while concurrently in the old
Hebrides a strong force of police has just
been compelling a Christian community—of
crofters—to pay rack-rents to Christian
landlords. They have been busy in New
Guinea, where, sad to relate, the benighted
Heathen has no religion at all, no churches
with oft-insolvent cheats in the high seats,
no synagogues with usurers for vice-presi-
dents, no lockups, no gaols, no blessed gut-
ters, no thieves—scarcely anything, in fact,
which characterises a civilized and Christian
community.
• • •
How sadly lacking in all that distinguishes
ourselves these wretched Heathen are, may
be understood at once. We need only quote
the latest description to show how terribly
in need of becoming civilized and religious
—like ourselves —these miserable Papuans
are. “Savages!” writes the correspondent
of the Melbourne Abgus. “ I never saw such
savages. Their gardens show an amount of
thought and well-directed labour and enter-
prise of which savages would be utterly in-
capable. Their houses are well built, com-
fortable, and quite up to the standard
required by the climate. They are cleanly
in their habits. Their laws are strict, and
are generally obeyed. Their women are
chaste, womanly, and pleasant. . . These
inland natives have no religion, yet one’s
property is sacred among them. If you drop
anything and they find it, you will have It
returned to you immediately. They are far
more moral than Europeans. Any breach
of the marriage law is punished by death.
But, from what I gathered from Luija, the
Chief, such breaches are hardly ever known
to occur. They (the women) seem perfectly
happy and contented; they have their own
rights, their own property, and are treated
kindly, nay, affectionately by their hus-
bands.” This is a terrible picture, and coupled
with missionary enterprise, reminds one of
the physician who examined a patient:
“Eat well?” “Yes.” “Sleep well? “Yes.”
“ Digestion good ?” “ Yes.” “ In good
spirits?” “Yes.” “Ah, well, we’ll soon
change all that. I’ll just write you a little
prescription.” Half-a-dozen missionaries
should be shipped off at once. Woolloomoo-
loo wharf would afford a convenient and
appropriate starting place.
• • •
But, unhappily, missionary enterprise has
not yet reached these benighted savages*
They have no religion, poor things! The
French priest and the English minister have
not yet instructed them. Before long, there
is every reason to hope, the Jesuit will have
enlightened one-half of them that the other
half will be damned in the life to come, and
should be killed if they persist; while the
Calvinist minister will have taught the
other half that the Jesuit is an emissary of
Satan, and all who listen to him have sold
themselves to the Devil. And a little later a
pious elder of one of our churches will intro-
duce the blessings of commerce, which invari-
ably follow close on the heels of religion,
and will provide one side or both with rifles
and rum, duck and dynamite; and civiliza-
tion will be fairly started. We ail know the
lovely process. It is in full swing at this
moment in the New Hebrides, and has
arrived at a not unusual stage in Madagascar.
The Missionary has had his regular turn.
The Consul is about to appear to take care
of the missionary. And the fleet, or army,
to take care of the Consul will appear upon
the scene with small delay. In the New
Hebrides, the Rev. Mr. Mackenzie has
saved many souls. At least, we suppose so ;
but we have no record. What we have a
record of is that the rev. gentleman claims
to have secured—besides souls—the strate-
gically important island of Iririki, dominat-
ing the entrance to the harbour of Vila. A
French lieutenant also claims to have bought
this. What the missionary traded for it
is not stated. The blessings of the Gospel
were, perhaps, the consideration. And, if
that be so, it must be conceded that a small
islet was cheaply parted with for so valu-
able a consideration. A missionary would
be fully justified in laying claim to a whole
archipelago, as swapped by the natives for
the same consideration. There is chapter
and verse for it: “ What shall it avail a man
if he gain the whole world and lose his own
soul ?” One small isle for salvation is a mere
bagatelle. The French lieutenant, not hav-
ing any salvation to dispose of—cheap—
gave a box of dynamite and a bag of dollars,
which were, perhaps, more prompt payment
than promissory notes only payable on the
Day of Judgment. Meanwhile, the man of
peace insists that he has converted the islet
—into the property of himself, his copart-
nery, or his employers. And he has sent for
the fleet, skipping the customary succession
of the Consul, on this occasion. The general
tendency of the result is to embitter the
senseless oombattiveness of two nations.
• • •
In Madagascar, a different series of events
promises to lead even more sharply to iden-
tical results. A missionary found himself
surprised by a sudden outbreak of war, and
apparently reckoned that he must be an
exception to the rule, and was not to be
meddled with. His duty was to his flock,
and their enemies had no business to inter-
fere with his ministrations. He stood his
ground calmly amidst the radius of war, seem-
ingly expectant that bullets would avoid
and corporals adore him. Whereas corporals
and privates violated his sacred premises,
and drank promiscuously his wines and his
emetics, and forthwith swore vehemently
MR. GEORGE BLUNT, RAILWAY CONTRACTOR.


Coughs and Colds
THE Best Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bod-time.
PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6s. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C, W. ROBERTS’
Siiglt Bottle Dijmiil,
MARKET bTBEET,
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET,
where you can obtain for
Sd.
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome of all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELISH WHISKY,
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTSl
a
Market Street, Sydney.
I!
i
Season 1883-84.
HILL, CLARK & CO.,
SYDNEY.
THE WOOL GROWERS OF NEW SOUTH
WALES AND QUEENSDAND.
THE rapid approach of the Incoming wool
season reminds us to tender our thanks tor
the very liberal support which has been accoroea
to us during past years ; and while doing so
take the opportunity to solicit a continuance oi
the same support in the future which we na\e
enjoyed in the past.
On referring to our circular issued last y ear
find that we therein anticipated a large increaseou
the quantity of wool which would be sold in tnebo
colonies, and the result proved that we were cor-
rect. We also predicted that the prices obtain®
in the colonies would be in favour of those growei
who sold in the
LOCAL MARKET,
and this also has been fully borne out by facts.
We are also glad to say that this market a
through the last season was extremely active,
the large quantity of wool sold proves that
SYDNEY
is fast becoming, what it is destined to be in future,
the
WOOL MARKET OF AUSTRALIA.
We have therefore no hesitation in urging upon
growers the advantage of first ottering their' . „
here, where buyers from all the manufacture*
countries of Europe and America attend to suyr
their wants from
FIRST HANDS. t0
Failing sales in Sydney, we are prepared tosWP
our London Agents, making liberal cash aavai
When sales are effected,
OUR CHARGES ,
are made on as low a scale as possible, and i all w t
offered in our Warehouses, and not sold, is
only to the nominal chatge of
ONE SHILLING PER BALE, .
which covers receiving, delivering, weighing*
storage accommodation. ftD d
Our Warehouses are partiularly well lighte . o(
are most conveniently arranged for the e
wool, in any quantity, to the greatest advanw*^
The most careful attention is given
of every lot, both large and small, so that
will be sold under the full market value.
Way-bills and all further information for
upon application.
HILL, CLARK AND CO.,
WOOL WAREHOUSES,
CIRCULAR QUAY.
Offices; 129 BITT STREET, pYDtfEY.
I Due Rates oe Subscription to The Bulletin
are _p or 0 no year, 34s.: half-n.ar, 13s. 6a.;
quarter, Cs. Ocl. —In advance.
Ihe Advertising Kates are 5e. per inch;
special positions in 'he t taper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisem >nls 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on contiguous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows : On ad-
vertisements ordered tor 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions,
15 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 25 per
cent. No allowance can ot made on advertise-
merits ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; tor amounts
under £1, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
Thus Sir ’Enry : “ Among: others, we met
Mr. Charles Crocker, one of the oldest Californian
millionaires, said to be worth £8,000,000. the
ruling; spirit strong in death —that is, political
death.
Newcastle.—Lieutenant Rose, the well-
known Mind-reader, Prestidigitateur, and Entre-
preneur, has organized a Dramatic Company, the
bright particular star of which is Mr. Alfred Dam-
pier, and will open in the metropolis of the North
on Saturday, the 6th Instant. The company sup-
porting Mr. Dampler is an excellent ope, and the
- ’ ■ ought to he a success.*
that he had laid traps for their stomachs
and poisoned them. Then, as might have
been foreseen, his motives for remaining
amid the trouble were suspected, suspicion
seemed fact. Everybody was too busy mur-
dering and destroying, to sift out evidence
about a man who had not shown the sense
or the inclination to get out of the way of
harm or mischief. The man was harshly
treated, as prisoners of war mostly are. It
Is not usual to house captives suspected of
treachery, spying, or poisoning, in villas, or
to lave them in rose-water, during a cam-
paign. And now the messenger of peace,
released and none the worse, howls to his
sympathisers and his country to get him ten
thousand pounds from his gaolers, or scourge
two nations with a war. And plain men,
who really love peace, instead of preaching
about it, murmur to one another that it
were better that never missionary had gone
among the Heathen, than that their greed,
and anger, and inflation should set two
grand peoples murdering one another.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Ginx.
The Working - Man was In glorious fettle in the
Melbourne Town Hall on a recent night. His face
was moderately washed, his whiskers moderately
brushed, and ho rolled up Collins-street with
mouth open to take what the gods might give
him. Ginx is one of the biggest wonders of modern
times. He is a Cyclops, whose one eye is swollen
and bleared; who swears and howls when he is
hungry, and howls and swears when he is thirsty;
but who, whether hungry or thirsty, can be always
thrown into an ecstasy of good humour if he is
tickled in the right way. The right way to tickle
him is to tell him that ho is a man—a noble,
Independent man ; a chivalrous, high - soule
man ; the great creator, the miraculous pro-
ducer, the strong corner-stone of the social
structure. Singularly enough, Ginx knows this,
and often says it to himself; but he never seems to
taste the ticklish sweetness of it unless he hears it
from persons robed in dress-coats, wearing eye-
glasses, and Hashing flfty-guinea rings. It is then
he claps his horny hands, and stamps his hobnailed
boots, and glares out with ids one bleared eye, and
vociferates “Hangcore! Hangcorel” And the
“Hangcorel” brings the dress-coat up standing
another time, and the same divine shibboleths
are proclaimed, and the flfty-guinea ring
flashes under the brilliant gas-jets once again,
and again Ginx, the bleared Cyclops, the
Caliban, with room for Erebus between his
cavernous jaws, yells “Hangcore I hangcorel”
And Ginx will go on yelling this “Hangcore
while there is a dress-coat to tickle him I A dis-
tinguished Bishop looked into his face on the night
in question, and with that native sympathy with
which he is moved towards all things that breathe,
and in a higher and deeper sense towards all life
that claims to have been sealed with the blessing
or curse of immortality, he tickled the swollen
monster to a chorus of jubilant “ Hangcores
A distinguished lawyer, the Nestok of many
councils, under a crown woven by years of profit-
able work, looked Into the empty wide jaws before
him, and with a smile that spoke of his kindly
feelings tickled Ginx, and again the atmo-
sphere was rent. A middle-sized, agoing man,
with a face that looked honest enough, but was
known to be only a mask for a life of political
trickery and humbug, a life of climbing on the
shoulders of Ginx, and eating well-buttered bread
off the flat top of Ginx’S skull, rose in the centre
of the platform and began to tickle the beast he
ridden so long. And then Ginx spread himself, and
in gazing up with the bleared eye at the statesman
of broken promises and shattered oaths, grew
larger under the tickling till ho reached from wall
to wall of the great hall, and jammed his flat
skull against the white ceiling, and the great
wide mouth could have swallowed the plat-
form as it yelled “ Hangcore 1 ” In the
name of heaven, what were all these going to
give Ginx ? They knew, for they said It was their
knowledge that brought them, that his house was
squalid and dirty, his wife was gloomy and sour,
his children were ragged and noisy; and they knew,
tor they vied with each other in expatiating on
this knowledge, that it was Ginx who had built up
the great city, whose arms still embraced and kept
It together, and on whose flat skull sat courts and
parliaments, and episcopal palaces and vice-regal
domains. And what came these here to give to
Ginx—these with their thousand, their five thou-
sand, their ten thousand a year ? Not a house less
squalid and dirty, not a sunbeam to brighten the
face of his wife, not a garment to cover
the limbs of his child, not a better view of the
heights of a happy manhood, of more merciful
heaven, ora less dreadful hell. No; they met in
the Town Hall, to give Ginx a Club ! Ginx’s
wife, and Ginx’s children, can stay in the house
that is squalid and dirty, his wife may die in her
gloom, and his children go mad in their rags; but
In this late ago of the world’s civilization, those
who live on tho top of Ginx’s fiat skull, have
come to see, by a profound study of Kevelation,
and a deep and earnest pursuit of Social philo-
sophy, that Ginx deserves a place of his own to
smoke and spit in. Go it, Ginx ! Hangcore, you
bleared Cyclops I Straddle to the outer gate of
this miraculous universe, still keeping tho load on
the top of your flat skull, and cacchinate in your
own Inimitable way, when you arc tickled, as on
that Monday night!
Eight Hours.
The Eight-Hours’ Demonstration was as success-
ful as heart could wish. The excursionists had
splendid weather, ample enjoyment, and encou-
raging addresses. But in the last mentioned
respect there was a flaw. The speakers were not
faithful. They dealt out too much jam. Listening
to them, their hearers must have been hardened
in the false belief that the whole secret of happy
«nd prosperous existence Is centred in eight hours'
labour, eight hours’ recreation, and eight hours’
jteejj. Now, wy be JfloaMy true. A woyW in
which human life is conducted on such a principle
would be a pleasant enough place to live in. But
it is not—at the present stage of human affairs—a
possible world. Competition is yet too keen. The
individual who works twelve or sixteen hours
daily, seldom fails to outstrip those who work
but eight. And the nation or the race
who habitually drudge for the maximum will
inevitably—when working with equal appliances—
produce more cheaply than the nation or race
among whom shorter hours of labour prevail.
And to produce cheaply is the way to dominate
the markets of the world and to build up national
wealth. Then, as wealth Is power, the nation
which slaves longest hours under intelligent direc-
tion is the notion which'will rule the world. That
is equivalent to saying that a blind adherence to
the eight-hours’idea is a sure way for a nation to
bring about its own enslavement. No great thing
was ever yet in the world's history accomplished
by a man who worked only eight hours daily. The
men of the grandest intellectual powers have
generally been the most untiring workers. The
I fire of genius keeps the engine of the
mind perpetually in motion. But, for all that,
wo are in sympathy with the eight-hours advo-
cates. The tact is that if they worked twenty
hours daily at their ordinary avocations, they
would be no better oft. Affairs are so peculiarly
regulated in modern civilized nations, that the
actual worker never receives more than a mini-
mum of the fruits of his labour. All surplus, bo
it small or great, is appropriated by the employer;
or, to put the case more particularly, the propor-
tionate gain to the labourer vs compared with the
increased wear and tear of long hours is not worth
working tor. And as self-protection is the first law
of nature, the adherents to the eiarht-hour system
must be credited with practical wisdom, which it
would be wrong to call short-sighted, considering
that its application must be beneficial to themselves
and their children to at least the third generation.
But the lesson to individuals should be inculcated
all the same, that the man who desires to better his
condition must devote his sixteen spare hours to
something besides recreation and slumber.
Land, Ho!
Referring to affairs on the Duke of Suthe -
land’s Scotch estates, one witness before the
Highland Commissioners deposed as follows
“ They (the tenants) are all subject to fines under
the laws of the Duke of Sutherland s estate. If
a man received a lodger into his house—even his
relatives—ho was subject to fine, and in most in-
stances these lines became a permanent addition
to the rent. The people felt that the laws of the
country were no use to them, fox - if they trans-
gtossed any of the estate regulations, their lives
would be rendered so intolerable that it was tanta-
mount to banishment. There were about seven
thousand inhabitants in the lleay country, and
to them was allotted from one-tenth to one-
thirteenth of the land, while the rest was
under sheep, deer, or grouse. The people
lived under an absolute despotism.” Ono tenth
for the tenants, and nine for “ sheep, dee’-,
or grouse!” Facts like this do more to goad the
people of Great Britain into a sullen dissatisfaction
with the agrarian laws under whose shadow such
things are possible, than the reasonings of Stuart
Mill or the Iconoclastic utterances of all the
Socialists from London to St. Petersburg!!. The
English philosopher’s dictum that “ land is not
like other property,” is being daily strengthened
by the Sutherlands of society. How long those
worthies will be suffered to proceed before the
cup of public forbeai’ance is filled to overflowing,
is one of the most absorbing political questions of
our time. Will it be settled peaceably, or will the
“have-alls” present an unflinching front to the
reasonable demands of the “ have nothings,”
till those demands, increasing in vehemence
by ill-advised opposition, cease to be reason-
able, and become sweeping ? As population
increases in the United Kingdom, and as
the franchise widens until it embraces the
masses who have hitherto had no voice in the
government of the country they enrich by their
labour, the feudal legislation which permits grouse
to take the place of men must tall. But the very
system of land tenure-the system that is giving
way on all sides before the pressure of European
democracy—is obtaining a new lease of life in
Australia. It is impossible to read the speech on
this subject delivered by Mr. Mirams before the
yawning legislators of Victoria, without being
struck by the fact that, at this side of the
we are forging for our children shackles precisely
similar to those which our kinsmen on the other
side are bent on breaking. Let us but continue in
the way we are going, parting for ever to the few
with the estate which should be held in tx-ust tex-
tile many, and the advent of “ Sutherlands ”
among us can be as surely predicted as the failure
of Sir Henry Parkes to persuade the Americans
to modify their tariff.
The Lash.
Under the head of “ The flogging of Mild water,”
a contemporary gives a detailed account of the
man’s punishment. We have an inconvenient
memory, and to us the whole thing reminds one of
an article which appeared years ago in the Mel-
bourne Daily Telegraph, from the pen of the
eminent Mr. Kyrle Bellew. Against the inflic-
tion of torture we have always set our faces. To
us it appears a step backwards in civilisation.
Perhaps the strangest thing connected with the
unsavoury subject is that, while this abominable
punishment has almost disappeared from the sta-
tutes of continental Europe (it has long since
ceased in France, Germany, and Italy, and is but
seldom resorted to in Russia and Austria), it appears
to bo gaining ground under the British flag. Since
the taking of the Bastille, no French subject has
been corporally punished in his own country.
During the last Russo-Turkish campaign, nothing
so much astonished English war correspondents
as the fact that the soldiers of the Czar
scourged like dogs under Nicholas— were never
beaten. Why this barbarism should die out in
despotic or semi-despotic states, even when rigid
military discipline has to be maintained, and be
revived among the free citizens of the Bri-
tish Empire, is one of the most curious of
questions. Scarcely less singular is the fact
that the power of bearing acute bodily tor-
ture appears to be on the waqe, Scattered
through the benevolent asylums and hospitals ]
of the colonies are old soldiers who stood by
with shouldered arms while one of their com-
rades received 300,500, and even 800 lashes without
flinching. Tne muscles of their backs were laid
completely bare—the “cats” were clogged and
stiff with blood—yet the sufferers never winced.
The barbarities carried on in the British army and
navy within the memory of middle-aged men
would shock humanity by their mere recital. No
drummer or farrier was allowed to give more than
25 strokes—his arm might get tired. They were
marshalled in relays, cat in hand, tor their turn to
“punish” their comrade. Words are inadequate
to convey a sense of the sickening sensation of
viewing a fellow creature’s body being slowly di-
vested of living flesh. When a soldier died under
the lash a few years ago in England, the British
aristocracy rose and shook its list in Gladstone’s
face for saying passionately, “ Perish such foul-
ness. It shall not occur again.” Wc remember
telling a white-haired old soldier in Victoria that
corporal punishment was abolished in the army.
The tears stood in his eyes as he said, “ Thank God
I’ve lived to see the day I”
The Outraged Alfonso.
The mob in Paris has been hooting His Most
Sacred Majesty King Alfonso of Spain, and Pre-
sident Grew has been profusely apologising.
Each according to his kind. The trouble about
Aefonso Is somewhat this way: “Alfonso he
was handsome, and Alfonso he was young,” and
some ten years ago or so he died of a broken heart
in consequence of the death of his beloved (first)
wife. He rose again on the third day, and married
the corpse’s cousin, and lived happily ever
after, with the slight exception that he
and the corpse’s cousin didn’t hit it.
So the happiness came in, by Alfonso skir-
mishing round, singing “ They say that other eyes
are bright,” and consorting with pretty gitanas
and other young persons. This came to the
Queen's ears, and induced her to make remarks.
Then something else came to Her Majesty’s ears.
That something was the palm of His Sacred
Majesty’s hand. And while other eyes were
bright, Her Majesty’s were of a dull appearance-
black and blue. His Sacred Majesty’s conduct on
this occasion would have earned him fourteen
days, without the option, at any police court in
Christendom. It was revolting, and so, lately, have
been his subjects. The Republican sentiment has
made Immense headway in Spain. Several pro-
vinces have attempted to rise in revolution,
and various regiments have tried to revolt.
And the Republicans across the Pyrenees sym-
pathised with their Spanish brethren. There-
fore, Alfonso made a dart for Germany, and
joined the European conspiracy against France.
Then he paraded through Paris, and expected to be
cheered. The mob was ill-bred enough to hiss and
hoot, meaning that they regarded Alfonso as a
contemptible cur in his private, and as an impu-
dent intruder in his public and regal capacity.
President Grew, who is well-bred, apologises —
and undoubtedly thinks with the ill-bred mob.
But il is ill-bred to hoot a dirty little skunk, and
well-bred to apologise to that sort of animal.
Which is all the moral we have handy at this
moment.
Mr. George Blunt, Railway Contractor.
Mr. George Blunt, one of the most success-
ful and best-known railway contractors in
Australia, whose portrait we give this week,
was born at Brighton, Sussex, in the year
1823. When quite a young man he com-
menced his career as a brickbuilder on the
London and Brighton Railway, then in
course of construction. Afterwards he ob-
tained the contract for the brick work of
the Tunnels and Bridges on tbe Guildford
and Farnham, and the Hastings and Battle
Railways. From this time he was engaged
many years with Messrs. Brassey and Mac-
kenzie on the Rouen and Paris and Havre
and Paris lines; with Messrs. Earl and Mer-
ritt in Norway, when the first sod was
turned ; and with Messrs. Fox and Anderson
in Denmark. He had the contract for all j
the brick work in the tunneling on the Con- |
tinental lines. With the vast experience
thus gained, he came to New South Wales
in 1857, and has been engaged in railway
construction ever since. It is hardly neces-
sary to roca-pitiil&te oil tlio works
which have been entrusted to him since his
arrival in Australia; but the extension from
Narandera to Hay—a distance of 107 miles—
which Mr. Blunt has just completed, is the
quickest bit of construction on record here.
The whole length was completed in less
than two years. He is now engaged in the
construction of the length from the Hawkes-
bury River to Gosford, being the third sec-
tion of the Homebush to Waratah Railway,
which, though only 18 miles in length, has
some heavy cuttings, and a tunnel more
than a mile long. Mr. Blunt has the happy
knack of retaining all his old servants, aud
when he has work in hand they flock to him
in thousands. There is very little doubt,
therefore, that though he has three years in
which to complete his contract, it will be
finished before that time.


A “squattah” out West got into the matri-
monial mustering-yard by the aid of the usual
clerical dtepherd, the other day: and the next day
lie got, with a few jovial friends, rounded up at
the local police court tor furious driving over the
happy event. Next time he gets hitched,he means
to depend on “shanks” alone,
James Gardiner, sentenced to death at
Brisbane for the murder of one “German Ada,”
and now awaiting execution in Brisbane, is the
son of a man who was tried ten years ago for the
murder of his wife, mother of Gardiner, junr.
Gardiner, senr., was then found guilty of man-
slaughter, and sentenced to ten years’ gaol.
Among those who were to accompany
John Davies to his banquet (ye gods!) at Kiama
were Sir John Robertson, Messrs. Abigail, Wisdom,
Mudgee Taylor (oh, Adolphus, what political com-
pany you keep!), Ilezlet, Kidd. Roseby, “and
sich." What a crew! By the way. Roseby is one
of the men who announce that they are going to
“defend Christianity.” Defender of the faith and
of John Davies? Ilmnnhl Abigail, we perceive,
has been lecturing on Orangeism at the centre of
Australian civilization. We, of course, allude to
Jatnberoo.
Mrs. Downie of Tnlla-
mulla, near Boggabri, had
been married a month, and
was only 18 years old. On
getting up in the morning
her husband found her
dead in bed.
Sandhurst publican
has been fined £25 for doc-
toring his rum with sul-
phuric acid In Sydney
several publicans “go one
better” than this. They
doctor sulphuric acid with
rum.
A man named Wil-
liam Kid, a mining
manager at Mansfield, shot
himself dead. The reason
he took his life, it is said,
was that he had under-
taken more than he could
perform. If everyone else
followed suit, the popula-
tion of the woTd to-day
would be about two—pre-
sent company, of course,
included.
Everything is fair in
love and war. Politic*
should have been added.
Thadeus O’Kane is desirou
of preserving Queensland
for the Aryan branch of
the human family. He has
a “down” on Orientals—
thinks they are “ poie
trash.” He “runs” the
Northern Miner ; but, as
newspapers are none the
worse for having their
opinions backed up by
votes, he is anxious to un-
burthen his political soul
in the Brisbane Assembly.
In fact, he is standing for
the Kennedy district, and,
oddly enough, the North-
ern Miner supports him.
Writing to that journal, a
lady—“Eye-witness ad-
vocates Mr. O’Kane’s
cause. This gives tho
Miner a chance, and it
seizes it. In a half-column
paragraph, it supports the
rights of women. It is
careful to explain that
when it says “women” it
means “females”—hard-
working mothers, wives of
the swart sons of toll, and
not those dolls, who play
lawn-tennis, flirt withhair-
parted-in-the-mlddle cur-
ates, struggle witlx Czerny’s
exercises, and toy with
divided skirts. It is not to
these butterflies the Miner
appeals, but to Nancy and
Jenny, and Biddy—those
thoughtful females, with
bread, honest, sunburnt
faces, big hands and fairly-
developed feet, who are
not ashamed to cook their
husbands' dinners and
wear their boots. “ We
speak to them, and expect
them to use their influence
with their husbands, and
not to let them vote for any
man suspected of a Coolie
taint. A woman’s home
stands first, before lodge,
or creed, or country.” This
is what the Miner says.
But it says more. It asks
the ladies to trust it, and ic
will pull them through.
“We Invite them to speak
through our columns, and
confide in us. Let them
send their letters through
the post office . . . with
their true names attached
as a guarantee of good
faith.” Oh, Thady, Thady,
how could you ? Do you
think that because a lady
suffers you to kiss her nose-
neglected darling, and
sometimes herself, she is
going to commit herself as
you ask? “The men,” tho
paragraph says, “havehad
their shouting and yell-
ings: let us hear the calm
sweet voices of the
women.” You giddy dorg,
Thadeus. We thought you
had turned over anew leaf
long ago. This clause “the
cilm sweet voices,” &o,
was as welcome to the op-
position prints, as a rag
doll to an infant class. They
settled upon it, like ants on
a dab of treacle. One cor-
respondent (of the oppos-
ing paper) observes, dpro-
P r ‘* of the women’s “calm,
sweet, voices,” “My ad-
vice is, don’t come fooling
about my humpy when I
am away, for I might ”
We do not remember to
have seen a more sugges-
tive phrase than that dash.
The Private View of the Art Society’s Ex-
hibition, on Saturday, brought a full muster of
artistic and other leading people to the Town Hall.
Mr. E. Combes, C.M.G., president, gave an address
on the pleasures of art, and Mr. Stuart, Premier,
in the absence of the ornate Dailey, briefly fol-
lowed. There are less pictures, both in size and
number, than last time, and of all grades, from the
' Uain on the Huon" and “ Scone from Tennyson,”
to Mrs. Stoddart's admirable miniature represent-
ng a fair-haired child of the late Hon VV. Forster,
in white embroidered f rc ck. Miss Stephens’s small
hionochrome of a girl absorbed in a book is a
pretty brown study, in two senses. Many land-
scapes are pretty, and some supposed portraits
trhostly. They should be looked at from a little
distance, some one said. We should think about
aye miles a fair distance. There s a picture of one
of the Six Hundred. Now we understand why so
jnany of them were killed. There are horses, and
it is to be hoped they can “ draw” better than their
artist. Mr Hoyte is most prolific, and contributes
J<5 pieces of fine scenery. There was one very in-
teresting drawing—It was that of the prizes, 35 of
them (pictures) ; the first, value fifty guineas,
falling to Mrs. J.Nestjlt, and titaaopond, of twanty,
fcMr, f. B.Vw*.
It was not to be expected that Mr. S. H.
Parker, the plucky little member of tho West Aus-
tralian Legislature, would carry his motion in rc
the introduction of Responsible Government. Nor
is it likely that, while things remain as they are, h c
will ever do so, however persistently he may ad-
vocate it. The reason is obvious. Many of the
so-called elected representatives of the people are
directly opposed to the motion. A section of the
elected members comprise a number of wealthy
monopolists, to whom responsibility would be a
bitter blow. Thev ire sent into tho senate, not bv
tho people, but by a minority of servile “ noses,”
possibly deep la their books, who are thus depen-
dent on them lor their very qualification to vote.
Manhood suffrage would sweep all this away; but
tho question arises whether this itself will ever be
obtained, without the aid of Responsible Govern-
| moot. The procuring of these two privileges so
j hinge upon one another, that it would almostseem
I that not until the Imperial ipse dixil bestowes them,
j will the great Western half of our island conti-
1 nout be even moderately free.
“ Vote early and often.” was the counter-
sign of the Microssan party at the late election
for the Kennedy District No. 3. They depended on
che “going" capacity of a special locom >tive to
enable the “ travelling ” electors of their political
belief to vote at sundry places on the same day.
Nor were they disappointed—as the result of the
poll showed. Mac. s sporting supporters clapped
all the money they could scrape together on their
champion, and, when no more bets of this descrip-
tion could be booked, came dowu to wagering
“hats” on the result. There was one proviso —
that the hats should in no case exceed the value of
£1. But, as the best “ tiles ” could be secured for
less than half the money, the winners were at their
wits’ ends to obtain full value from the losers. At
last an ingenious ‘piil-builder ” hit upon a plan.
He had won three hats, and, obtaining orders for
their delivery—not to exceed £1 each—he placed
himself at the head of his seven “kids,” invited
his partner to join the procession, and struck out
for the nearest hatter’s. For the three orders now
head-gear was obtained for the mob. While the
losers think themselves “got at” by “Senna’s”
’cuteness, he, on the other hand, regrets that ho
could not include Ifis “ol' woman” ip ffic swim,
Ipstwa oH We — “pardoer,"
i
Trouville is the French Brighton, where,
during a short and brilliant season in midsummer,
the dashing belles of tho fashionable world disp ay
their charms in a way they couldn’t manage else-
where. There, at 11 o’clock any flue morning, can
bo seen dashing duchesses, sweetly shaped “Lady
Dollys,” celebrated actresses—indeed, every one
with any symmetry to show, clothed in the
charming deshabille most calculated to show it —
disporting themselves in the briny. This place is
fairly ablaze with glimpses of beauty, and crowded
bathing costumes, some Imr -xrmed and necked,
others bare-legged, and of all degrees of lit;
for the lovely bathers arc careful to show the
most of these particular beamics which can
best bear display. And while from the beach,
which is a perfect Vanity Fair, wicked old re-
probates focus their powerful glasses us they
recline in wicker chairs, and young exquisites
indulge in the freest vision and criticism, there can
ne seen all the stimulating devices which female
vanity can Invent to render beauty attractive to
masculine eyes, to put it in its most fascinating
much, yet to show to the very utmost peep all that
yet tantalizing guise. One pretty actress, whose legs
are her fortune, wears only the merest apology for
a skirt—what, in fact, might be called just the
elementary remains of one lingering around the
Avaist belt. A Marquise who is famed for the mag-
nificent bust bestowed on her by a benevolent
providence is careful to costume her handsome
figure in material so thin, so scant, and so close-
fitting to its undulating outline, as to leave less of
her formation to conjecture than has been
generally considered necessary since Eve instituted
fashions. While bathing dresses are no doubt
primarily intended to interpose some veil, as it
were, between what they contain, and the eye of
the gazer, yet many of the Tronville ladies are
singularly successful in possessing drosses that fall
to achieve that result. And so, occasionally, the
startled and embarrassed beholder is really in
doubt m to whether bo i? gaziogr upon » merely
j nominal attire, or at the natural exterior of some
! lovely siren of the sea. Where outlines are not
exactly what they might be, nature is not displayed
in it simplest expression, but a few “fussy”
trimmings arc affixed hero and there which judici-
j ously direct the eye from what it shouldn’t see on
j to what it should. And in no case is it demanded,
unless the wearer prefers, that a snowy neck should
he protected from the gonl le laving action of the
kissing waves. As they disport themselves in all
kinds of aquatic gambols, many a white pair of
ankles gleam dazzling in tho sun as their owner
makes a daring dive ; and light laughter ripples
from rose-red lips as the merry mormaidens
grapple with one another in n “ducking” fight
waist deep from the shore. The sands are a pre-
menade for those who have had, or are going to
have, or who never do, bailie ; and there are to lie
[ seen queens of society, ladies of tho stage, the
world and the half-world, English Riid American
visitors, and young French wi\ es enjoying all that
| elastic license which French marital usage allows,
i Gilded youths find matter of interest in the racy
scenes, and it need hardly be said that it Is a garden
I of hope for match-making mamas. Charming
! place, Trouville.
An old identity has
passed away at Bathurst*
“old parson Tom,” as he
was called. He was 83
years old, and a Bathurst
resident for over half-a-
oentury.
A dress composed en-
tirely of feathers was worn
by a Russian Princess at a
recent bail at Nice, and the
leathers were peacock's. It
is theonly dress of the kind
ever made. We know
people of both sexes who
ought to be always dressed
in feathers. But not pea-
cock’s feathers.
Mr. Jacob Low, late
M. for the Balonne (Q.),
died, aged 76, a few days ago
at Brisbane. He bad been
formany years well-known
on station properties in
N. and represented
tho Balonne for JO years.
His splended penmanship
tvas always a matter of
curiousness to those who
knew him only as a bush-
rnan in the interior, but he
served his articles of clerk-
ship to a Wiiter of tho
Signet in Perth (Sc.)
Whin Ihe Chinese
plenipotentiaries presented
themselves at Washington,
high Yankee officials vied
with each other in showing
t hern i ound. They attended
a circus, and observed how
the audience abandoned
themselves to the wildest
merriment at the clown’s
original witticisms. Tho
Mandarin of two tails and
four buttons, who “bossid”
the embassy, appeared to
enjoy the fun also, and
■when asked why, shly le-
marked, “Welly good
jokt s--t.il way from China.”
So that even in our“conun-
drums” iluse ingenious
people had anticipated ns.
it stems to be the same
wiih most other things.
When Europeans paiado
the stethoscope, the tele-
phone. the elect lie light,
ibe fish impede, the tram-
ear, and the divorce court,
as the results of modem
science, these ingenuous
Orientals smile and point
out how they were known
millenniums ago, when
Chang '1 se, of the W bang
Ho d> entity, tuled from tlie
Corea to tbe Arctic circle.
At last an Englishman dls-
ecveiid a means if ex-
tiacting a luminous paint
from pulverised oyster-
shells. When exposed to
tbe light lor a few hours
daily, the paint absorbed
sufficient luminosity to
enable lodgers in a Bank-
street hash-house to carry
on “seven-up” long after
the landlady’s daughter
had turned off the gas. It
was thought that at last
the Celestials were fairly
distanced. It now appears
that a forgotten Chinese
artist, long befote the Cru-
saders swarmed into Pales-
tine to convert the Sara-
cens to Christianity and
corpses, had presented his
Emperor, T’ai-tsung, with
a picture of a cow, which
by day appeared browsing
outside an enclosure, and
by night, owing to lumin-
ous paint, seemed to bo
snugly ruminating inside.
A heimit, rejoicing in the
name of “Commendable
Serenity,” tried to explain
to hiss Majesty that tho illu-
sion was effected by means
of a pigment obtained
from powdered mussel-
shells. The anchorite’s
nose was slit with “com-
mendable” despatch for
endeavouring to run such
a ock-and-bull story into
the relative <t the “Sun
and Moon.” And so crum-
bles another of our cn-
deavouis to leach these
people something they
don’t know.
Instead of the usual Parliamentary Dinner
before the session opens, there is to be a grand
Ministerial picnic to the National Park, Port
Hacking, to-morrow and Saturday. Everything Is
provided, sleeping conveniences in buildings or
tents, accommodation for hoises and vehicles,
steamers for those who prefer the sea voyage,
and all the details of cd frettcu faring completely
attended to.
The shadow of Fairs is on us again. Bur-
wood has just had its attack, Gouiburn has been
afflicted, Albury has suffered, and now Govern-
ment House is to be the seat of the epidemic. As,
at the Berlin church f£te, the Princess of Wales
sold buttonholes at a guinea, and even atBurwood
a masher was struck cold bv being invited to pay
5s. for one. It is hoped the promoters of the
Melanesian Mission won’t lower the tone of these
affairs by vulgar cheapness. North * here js again
in the field, too, and the Exhibition is to be turned
into a wondrous scene of horticultural beauty,
eclipsing anything of the kind yet seen. Flower
show and bazaar pembined, for St, Thomas’?
V W kfU |
A BROAD HINT.
“Every Government ought to include one peregrinatory Minister to undertake this work. He should he bland, etusive,
fluent, generous in promises, not necessarily of strong memory, and with a digestion like an ostrich. Australasian.


Won Id-wide Honors to St. Jacobs OH
THE Great German Remedy, ST. JACOBS OIL,,
stands honoured with the highest distinction!
ever paid to a medicine. This is not only the case
in this country, but abroad everywhere. At the
New Zealand International Exhibition, 1883, it re-
ceived the magnificent First Prize Medal, together
with the Highest Diploma for being, according to
critical tests, the Best Pain Curing ar.d Healing
Remedy known to mankind. In this c( nnection a
few testimonials from distinguished m< .i are here
given as an evidence of the world-wide nopularity
of ST. JACOBS OIL.
Opinions of Prominent Australians,
C. C. COHEN, Esq., Mullens-street, B ilmain, Sj<&-
ney.—“ One bottle of St. Jacobs Oil i ured m®
of a contracted leg of three yeais’ standing-
Sworn to before Charles Kanlo, Esq., Unite®
States Consul.
DAVID SCOTT, Esq., of the firm of Messrs. Boyle
and Scott, Cricket and Football Depot, Mel-
bourne, Victoria.—“ St. Jacobs Oh relieved me
at once of pain. I comment it to all footballers
onrl ppi plrotfirH * *
W. P. BOOTH, Esq., Thomas-street, Balmain.-
“ Nothing like St. Jacobs Oil, in my opinion,
for a valuable remedy.”
A. ADAMS, Esq., City View, Ryde, Sydney, N.S.W-
—“ St. Jacobs Oil cured me of a sprained knee,
and enabled me to walk about in four days.”
WALTER HAYNES, Esq., Manager for A. Church-
wood, York-street, Sydney, N.S.W.— ” Acknow-
ledges St. Jacobs Oil as an extraordinary
remedy.”
J. R. DREWBTT, Esq., Town Buyer for Messrs.
S. Hoflnung and Co., Pitt-street, Sydney,
N.8.W.—“ I Took on St. Jacobs Oil as a univer-
sal panacea for all kinds of pain.”
A cash reward of one hundred pounds will he
paid by the Charles A. Vogeler Company of Bal-
timore, Maryland, United States of America pro-
prietors of St. Jacobs Oil, or by their accredited
local representatives, to any person producing
proof to the effect that the testimonials pub.ished
by them in regard to St. Jacobs Oil are not strictly
genuine.
St. Jacobs Oil, the great German remedy, con-
quers pain. Sold by Druggists, Chemists, and
Medicine Dealers throughout the world. Price n*
New South Wales, Half-a-crown a bottle. Direc-
tions for using in eleven languages.
ELLIOTT BROTHERS. Sydney,
Wholesale Depot for New South Wales.
BARNEY M‘SWIGGER.
A STORY OF THE N.S.W. LAND ACT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ I don’t see,” said old M’Swlgger, looking out from
the verandah of his station house, “ what, I am to
do If many rhore seasons are like this. The lamb- ;
liig Is a failure, and my wool doesn’t go for much.
It’s all for want of water. These blamed after-
claps ruin ft mah. A man comes OPt here, spreads
himself around, and counts on a waterhole as his.
After a while, a lad of a surveyor looks through
his glasses, and cyphers out that that waterhole
belongs to the other man. That’s my case.
M’Swagger has my waterhole, and I have to trust
Providence for rain. A man never begins to see
how paltry his influence is until he tries to use it
on Providence. To think of all the ways I look to
grease Providence, makes me humble —humble and
mad. I ran a clerical caravanserai for as good as
two years, and turned my woolshed into an ark of
righteousness, and got myself nicknamed the
Bible in Sheepskin, and sent my son Barney to the
Melbourne Presbyterian College to have him
trained in devoutness of feeling and simplicity of
demeanour; and here I am now, and can’t get a
bucket of rain if I howled all over the run.
M’Swaggor drinks and swears, and he one time
lifted the parson over the fence and put his
shoulder out, and yet he has the permanent water-
hole, and gets most of the drizzles the wind brings
over the downs. D 1”
And the old man used very strong language as
he looked over the great plain. Then he rumi-
nated for a while, and at the end of the rumination
dropped into another soliloquy.
“ it’s an idea, certainly,” he said. “ M’Swagger’s
daughter is 17, and Barney is 22. She’s a bit skit-
tish, and her mother is hoity-toity; but if old
M’Swagger is willing, we might work it. In fact,
tho trouble will be with Barney. He is too modest,
a deuced deal too much so. He reddens up if you
talk of a woman before him; and although he’s
a well-looking lad, still the way he drops his eyes
when a woman looks at him is against his chances.
I’ll have to give him a wrinkle or two. It wasn’t
from his dad he got that fashion. It must have been
from the parsons at that college.”
Then he walked to the end of the verandah, and
ealled out “ Barney 1” There was no answer.
“ Barney 1” shouted the old man again. Still there
was no answer. The old man was pretty well used
to that sort of thing, so he went round among the
apple-trees on the right of the house, and came in
sight of the hope of the M’Swiggers. Barney was
a tall young fellow, limp and light, without any
hair on his face, but with five times too much on
his head. It flowed down on his shoulders, and
ended in beautiful flaxen barrel-curls. He had not
heard his father’s voice. He was kneeling against
the butt of an apple-tree, with a prayer-book at
his side, and a sheet of foolscap open against a
smooth slab of bark.
“At it again 1” said the father, coming over and
caressing the curls. “ More hymns, eh f You must
have a lot of them made now. We’ll not hear
much of Watts after a while. It’ll be all M’Swlgger,
eh, Barney ? You’re a good lad, but leave off a
minute and let’s have a pitch.”
With a sigh that shook the leaves of the apple-
tree, Barney put his manuscript under the prayer-
book and stood up. He lifted his hat from the
grass, and settled it on his head. Although so far
out in the bush. Barney persisted in wearing broad-
cloth. His jet black frock-coat and pants con-
trasted strangely with the surroundings, and his
bell-topper, soaring up among the branches,
seemed to cover a pillar of dignity.
“ Father,” said Barney, as he stalked out into the
open with his eyes cast down, “ I hope that, in the
pursuit of things spiritual and eternal, I do not
forget my filial duty towards you with regard to
things corporeal and temporal.
“ Not a bit of it, my boy,” said the father; “ not
a bit of it. You have one great virtue—willing-
ness. You are always ready to do what I tell you.
I’m going to tell you something now. You see,
we’ve had no rain this deuce of a time
»• Ah,” cried Barney, “ I understand. You want
me to offer up a prayer 1” And thereupon he
dropped on his knees, and, taking off his hat, be-
tran. ’’ Oh, Thou that ”
“ko, lad; no, lad!” cried the father, lifting him
by the collar. “ That’s not the idea. You can’t get
a spoonful that way. It’s another lay I’m on, and
If you help me we’ll have permanent, yes, perma-
nent water. Did you ever see M’Swagger’s
exclaimed the young man, closing his
eyes and Joining his hands, how can you?”
“ No matter, said the old man. You haven t
had time to hunt her up since you came back; but
It’s about her I have the idea. Now, listen. I want
you to marry her.”
“ Marry 1” gasped Barney, and with the toss of
his hands and the jerk of his head the hat flew off.
M’Swlgger picked up the hat, and, climbing on a
tuft or grass, restored it to its place, and then
rubbed the young man’s eyes, and tickled his nose
with a straw until he brought him round.
“ It seems to me,” said the young man when he
regained self-possession, “that Nature has suffered
some great convulsion. It seems as if the sun had
lost its place in the firmament, and as if it were
careering round through space swallowing star
af »s not,” said the father. “ It’s in the old
spot, and going on in the old way. It’s what I said
took an effect on you.”
“ what—what was it?” asked Barney.
“ 1 said you must marry M’Swagger’s daughter.
Then Barney threw his arms out, set his teeth
together, and fell back full length on the grass.
The old man got a couple of straws this time and
worked vigorously. In a while Barney began to
kick, his lips to quiver, and then his mild blue eyes
opened, and he said: ’‘Father, I heard your com-
mand. Forgive me if my nerves were not equal to
the shock. Can you spare me a few minutes for
PI my boy,” assented the father. And the
old man walked thoughtfully about while Barney
retired to an apple-tree and prayed. When the
nraver was over, M’Swlgger caught his son’s hand
and asked: “ Bight ? Eh ? Open your eyes, man,
and laugh. Won’t you take ner ? We can then
clap the two runs together, and M’Swagger’s water
wlU do both. She’s a plump young piece, Barney.
You never saw her ; but I saw ner about four
years ago. Eh ? Only my head is grey it’s not
asking you to marry her I’d be I”
“ I’ve fully considered, dear father, the serious
nature of the intelligence, and filial duty obliges
me to bow. I bow. But it is not Miss M’Swagger’s
charms that have prevailed on me. O, woman,
woman 1 I’d fly to the uttermost ends of the earth
from a woman.”
“You’U get over that, Barney; you’ll get over
it.” whispered the father, stroking the flowing
curls. “ Walt till she gets an arm round here, you
know, and lifts her little red mug up to yours,
and ” , T ,,
“ Spare me, dear father, do spare me 1 lam able
to obey while I think only of furthering your pro-
spects with regard to the amalgamation of the
runs, but my heart falls me when you thrust before
my mental vision the frightful form of a woman.
O don’t, don’t, don’t!” ,
“ You’re a good boy, Barney. We 11 let that end
of it rest. So long as you can collar her, I don t
care whether you ogle her or not. But, bear this
In mind—you can’t get her to like you unless you
look lovingly at her from time to time. Now, you
must open your eyes and turn them round sad-like
off and on. Something like this, you seel” And
the old man stood before Barney, and illustrated
his Instructions. “ Now, Barney, try it.”
Barney crossed his hands on his breast, raised his
long eyelashes, but blushed up to the top of his
forehead, and let them down again, exclaiming
“ it’s hard, father, It’s hard! Let me say another
prayer, and collect my thoughts.”
Luckily, M‘Swagger Just then rode up to the
door. He had been out searching for lost bullocks,
and, as he was passing M’Swigger’s, he dropped In
in hopes of a wet. „ __
“Barney,” said the Old man, “it’s your prayers
have done it. Nothing else could fetch M‘fewagger
at this time of day. I’ll freeze on to him, and do
you pray away till 1 call you.”
M’Swigger and M‘Swagger embraced warmly,
and throwing the bridle .over a pin at the door,
entered the house. The whisky-bottle and water-
bag were set in motion, and the closest intimacy
was soon established. M'Swigger worked his point
round carefully, and was rejoiced at the success
that followed.’ M'Swagger hadn’t the slightest
objection to the union, provided “Arabella and
her mother ” were agreeable. “ 1 tuk me own way
whin I was at it,” said M'Swagger, “and so did me
wife, and I’ll give me darter her way. If she likes
yer lad, then the whole thing’s slick; if not, not.
But what soort of a chap is Barney ? I haven t
seen him since ho went to college.”
“Barney!” cried M'Swigger, going to the door.
“ Barney f” And as he led in the son by the sleeve,
the old man whispered—‘It’s coming round line.
He’s mad to see you. Now, put on your grand
college airs, and burst him up with all you know.
He has the most money, so you must show that we
have the most breeding.”
M'Swagger spoke only once after the entrance
of the young man. At that time he ejaculated,
“’Tarnal beeswax I” and then lay back on his
couch, curled up his feet, and let his mouth hang
open. When the young man went out to continue
his prayer, M‘Swagger made a rush for his horse.
“ Wouldn’t it be a good plan,” said M Swigger,
“if Barney went on a visit to you for a week?
The voung ones would fall together then, and
make it up. She’ll hardly be able to help loving
Barney when she comes to know him. The
very thing!” said M'Swagger. “ Send him over.
By-bye!” And driving spurs into his horse, he
didn’t pull up till he was three miles into the dense
bush. He rode all the way with his mouth open, too,
and then he got off, rolled himself a dozen times in
a bed of spmlfex, and felt that he was a little
better.
“Isn’t that an impertinence?” whispered Ara-
bella to her mother the next morning. “To think
of sending that fellow here I Papa ought to throw
him out. I’ll just stay in my room all the time
he’s here.”
Mrs. M‘8wagger laughed and laughed again, and
the more Arabella pouted, the more vehemently
she indulged some merry conceit. The young
man had arrived, and they could see his belltopper
moving about among the branches outside. Old
M'Swagger started to go out on the run, but he
fell three times out of the saddle and rolled about
in the grass. So he abandoned the enterprise, and
stretched himself in a hammock on the verandah,
and got Susie, the cook, to mix his whisky and
W “*Thats it,” said Mrs. M‘Swagger, coming out;
“ he hasn’t seen Bella yet. She will keep out of
his way. Say nothing.” .
“ Tarnal beeswax 1* cried the old man, emptying
a glass.
“ How do you like her, Barney ?” asked old
M’Swigger, who rode over, not to stay, but simply
to give heart to his son. “ I don’t want to go up
to the house. It would look too much like a dead
set. I knew I’d find you about here among the
bushes. But how do you like her ?”
“Dear father," said Barney, “I think I saw her.
I think I did. A moving column of white clothing
passed near me several times, and I heard a voice
which I should judge must be a woman’s, but I
closed my eyes. I am prepared to do my duty, for
my heart is centred on getting the waterhole; but,
0 father, I wish the way were smoother.”
“ Take care, my lad. Don’t for the life of you
let on you want the waterhole. No woman would
take you on such terms. No matter how old or
ugly a woman is, you must make her think it’s
herself has ravished you. You didn’t mug her
yet? Eh? Now, don t look so gluml What did
you say to her ?” „
“I didn’t speak to her yet, though I was con-
scious she was in my presence for many minutes.”
“ Ha I Hanging about you I hanging about you!
1 knew she couldn’t help it. Now, the next time
you’re conscious that way, take a spell when no
one is looking, and come at her this way. Do you
see ? Get one arm round this way (hold your head
lower). Lift up her chin this way (keep steady,
man I) Look in her eyes longingly for a while,
this way; and then come down this way and clap
your mouth to hers —yum, yum, yum, yum, yum,
as long as she’ll let you I”
“Oh, don’t, father; don’t!”
“ When you do that a couple of times, you can
then ask her to marry you. Tell her it’s only for
herself, and that you’ll take her without a penny,
and that you’ll stick to her if all the people in the
world went blazing mad. I don’t like her mother;
and she may try to oppose it because it’s not after
her you’re going, but don’t let that frighten you.
When you get the lass warm, if you find a parson
anywhere, tie the knot, and then you can crack
your fingers at the mother. M’Swagger and I’ll fix
it up after. T must lie going'. Mind What i told
you the next chaiice you get. Yuni, yum, yum,
yum I By-bye.”
“Oh, Mr. JSi’Swigger, let me go! Surely you
don’t care So much for me, ana me only a poor
girl ? I’ll be sent away from the house if anyone
sees you doing this. Do, Mr. M‘8wlgger, let me
go I**
But Barney held on, and wont faithfully through
the programme. Indeed, ho spent longer over the
yum yum than the command involved. He told
her all about sticking to her, and all about defying
the world, and was sealing every word with a yum-
yum, when shestrusrgled out of his arms, saying:
“Yonder’s parson Jones; he’s coming this way!”
“What do you say?” cried Barney, catching her
again by the back hair, and drawing her over.
“ Shall we get him to do it this very evening?
Come, now; yum, yum I” And she whispered in
between his teeth “ Yes!”
“It was done in something of a hurry,” said old
M’Swagger to the parson, as they sat together
having a little refreshment after the ceremony.
“ You seem to have dropped in in the nick f time.
He’s a son of M’Swigger, ov r the ridge. Say,
Jane.” he cried to his wife, “ wouldn’t it be better
that he took the bride to his father’s at once ? It
is as good an announcement of his son’s exploits as
can be given. I’ll get the buggy ready, and the
parson might as well take the young couple home.
You can come back hero to-morrow, Mr. Jones, or
on the first day you like. I’ll send my man with you.
I’m not sure how M’Swigger may like the
marriage, and would rather keep out of it. But
I can stand up for the girl. She’s with
us now some time, and we’re sorry, very sorry, to
lose her.” The tears were streaming down Mrs.
M’Swagger’s face: and so much alike are the out-
ward symbols of grief and mirth, that i ho parson
thought it was the former that racked the lady’s
heart. Mr. Jones assented to the arrangement
which made him a contributor to the haopiuess of
an impulsive young couple and gave him an op-
Eortunity of filling the office of peacemaker in the
ome of the M'Swiggers. The dri\er appeared
with the buggy, and the parson took his seat be-
side Mr. Barney M’Swigger an i his I,looming
bride. Mrs. M’Swagger put a bag of rice and a
basket of flowers in between them,
“Hml hai” coughed old M’Swagger, meeting
the buggy at the door, and taking m the general
situation pretty accurately. “ Something lively,
eh?” The parson smiled blandly, and, gripping
the old mams hand, assured him that all rites were
properly performed. Then the dismounting began.
»* You caught her on the nick, Barney,” wliisp. red
the father; “ you’re a fine lad, You followed all I
told you. A woman never can stand against a
yum-yum If rightly done. Cooed” he cried,
catching the bride in his arms, “ you’ll find me a
warm-hearted dad to you, my little woman.
What’s this? Ha, ha, a bag of rice: Eh, parson,
we old boys know what that means. Welcome,
my children, welcome all I Make my house yours,
for I’m now the happiest man in the land. I sup-
pose,” he continued, as the party reached the first
room, which was called a sitting-room, but wasn’t
a sitting-room on this occasion, “ T suppose, my
little woman, you were sorry to leave your
mother; sorry, eh? we all are, eh? ‘Ah, sir,
said the little woman, “ it’s so long ago. She died
when I was only a couple of years old. Foolish
little goose!” exclaimed old M’Swagger, chucking
her under the chin; “you didn’t hear what I said.
I was speaking of your mother. What’ll my dear
friend, Mrs. M’Swagger. do now for her daughter ?”
“Miss Bella, sir? She has Miss Bella yeti”
“ Bravo I” yelled the old man. “ Ton my soul,
you’re a clever girl. It’s not I will keep you
from being a daughter to her still; but then, you
know, little rogue, her daughter won’t be Miss
Bella M - Swagger, but Mrs. Bella M’Swlgger. Eh,
parson, isn’t there some difference there ?”
The parson’s brows went up and his chin went
down, but he said nothing, and the fatuous old
man, while Barney was saying a prayer behind the
door, made a straight cut for destruction. “ Wopsy,
wopsy,” he went on, “ you wouldn’t like to be Miss
Bella again!”
“ I wasn’t Miss Bella, sir. My name is Susie.”
“Topsy wopsy is playful. Is that your second
name? The M’Swaggers always called you Bella,
little daughter Bella!”
“ But I’m not M’Swagger’s daughter!” And then
the little woman seemed to get a glimpse of the
cause of the mystification, and thrusting her hand-
kerchief into her eyes, she blubbered out—“I’m
Susie, the cook!”
The only voice heard in the room for the next
few minutes was Barney’s warbling in a tender
tenor, “ Before the closing of the da/.” Then the
parson explained in a few words how he found
things, and what the actual state of affairs was.
M’Swigger opened his mouth wide enough to
take in the buggy, and rushing from the room re-
turned in four seconds with a scythe and a hatchet.
Susie ran into the open fireplace, and the parson
slipped down behind her and spread out her dress
so as to conceal his person. “ Catch his arms,”
whispered the parson. “ He’s mad ; don’t be
afraid. Jump at him and catch his arms!” And
when she saw the tail swept from Barney’s coat
and the old man dancing on his shining belltopper,
Susie Aid Jump, on fcip, ,apJ in a jiffey had him on
his back, and,forced hip tq tiy for quarter. Then
the parson crept over and kicked him, and having
done this, he bolted for M‘3wag&e'r ,i s shouting
“ Murder I 1 ’ all the way.
That night old M'Swigger and Barney went dowii
to the creek, and, with one long last embrace, slid-
dered in.
Arithmetical problem for Alberto. How
many marks are £5000 worth ? This la u Question of
exchange. Very much so.
Major Finnerty, whose death was recorded
a little while back, was the officer who gave chase,
in the steamer Georgette, to the Catalpa with the
escaped Fenians from West Australia on board, In
1876. He had on board a considerable force of
hardy Indian and Crimean veterans, who were no
feather-bed warriors. When they came up with
the Catalpa, the Captain ran up the “Stars and
Stripes,” and coolly observed: “If you fire on me,
I guess you fire on that flag,” while the escaped
Fenians smilingly walked the deck. Big burly
Finnerty fumed and stormed, for he had strict
Instructions from the diplomatic Sir William Robin-
son, and dare not go to extremes in the face
of the American flag waving on the high seas.
“ Men,” roared he, “ we're like bulldogs in a cage;
but it s not my fault those fellows will not be in
irons in ten minutes.” One moment, it was a touch
and go with those on the Catalpa, for Finnerty had
all ready for the word “ Are,” when a subordinate
officer, more cool than he, reminded him of the
consequences. And the fiery Major and his force
had slowly to turn tail, leaving the American
captain and the free Fenians laughing in his face
at his inglorious discomfiture.
GENUS, DUDE—MALE AND FEMALE.
Laying on of Hands.
Now, ever anxious to befriend
An ailing fellow man,
I find 1 can attain that end
By quite a novel plan;
Some powers of healing I possess,
Which no one understands
(I don’t, myself, I must confess),
Called “ laying on of hands.”
Oh! tell me not of doctors’ skill—
Their physics I despise;
Mere earthly missions they fulfil,
But mine is from the skies
(’Tis one that everyone must feel
Is, now-a-days, m< st rare):
The only drugs with which I heal
Are simple “ faith and prayer.”
Beloved friend, if sick you be,
And past a doctor’s aid,
You ought to send across for me
(You won’t, though, I’m afraid).
I touch the nostrils with my thumb.
To make recovery sale;
And strong as ever you become
(Provided you have fa/ith).
Should that prescription fail to stay
(As, possibly, it might)
The tell disease, I bid you pray.
Both morning, noon, and night;
Then strike you lightly in the eye
In my mysterious way;
Well alter that, if you should die.
It shows you didn’t pray.
I treat with scorn the sceptic’s sneer.
Since I have been assured
By scores of ladies, far and near.
How thoroughly they’re cured
(On this idea, I’m pleased to say,
Their minds are firmly fixed),
By taking, in my patent way,
Faith and prayer well mixed.
The other day, a pretty maid
Was feeling low and sad;
Said she “ My heart, I’m much afraid,
Is very weak and bad;”
I pressed my lips against her own,
with my peculiar touch;
She gave a little grateful moan,
And said “ I’m better, much .
A widow called, o’ercome by grief
(She’d loved her husband true).
Said she “ I’ll have sincere belief
In everything you do.”
I squeezed the pretty creature tight,
And softly stroked her hair;
She cried “ I’m now recovered quite ” —
Which proves the power of prayer.
A servant girl, with pleasing face
(And oh! so neatly dressed),
Came weeping—having lost her “ place,”
Her mind was much distressed—
At first I found her faith was weak,
But, in a little while,
II mched the dimple in her cheek,
And faith produced a smile.
The cases I have instanced there,
Bear witness to my skill,
And prove that simple faith and prayer
Are all you need, when ill;
With ladies 1 have most success.
Because their faith is such.
They never can get well until
I give my mystic touch.


The Furniture Column.
THB REVISED LISTS
are the most complete we have ever published.
For the sum of JBIOO prompt net cash,
You can Furnish a House as follows:
DRAWING ROOM.
The title of our new book, Is “A Bulletin or
Manifesto.” Copies are sent post free everywhere
upon application.
Campbell Brothers,
Royal Furnishing Arcade,
426 CIOBOE STREET. SYDNEY,
NEXT THB BOTAL HOTEL.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
A New Zealand coroner was married lately.
He Is in his eightieth year. Perhaps he is in part-
nership with Death.
The Hon. W. S. Griffith was lately drawn
through Toowoomba, Q., accompanied by a torch-
light procession. Some of our own Ministers have
had this honour done them before now. But the
real torchlight procession comes after they are
dead. Yes.
“The Hon. R. Wisdom has been with his
constituents of late, and it is thought that a new
pound in place of the present miserable one will
be the result.” Town and Country Journal
correspondent—
Oh, what a fall, that Wisdom, erst
One who a nation blest or curst,
Should now at last abject be found
Fame buying with a paltry “ pound,”
What’s in a name ? One Alexander Stuart
is now patiently awaiting his trial for his premier
offence of robbing a church, and one John Davies
has just parted with twelve silver crowns for sell-
ing colonial “ moustache-holsters ” on the Lord’s
Day. We are now looking out for a patriot, who
will drag the name of william Gladstone in the
mire by selling billets in the Civil Service and
pocketing the money.
The Orangemen of the Mauritius are wild.
On the occasion of the swearing-in of their new
Governor (Sir John Pope Hennessy), when his Ex-
cellency was about to Kiss the Bible which was
handed to him by the Chief Judge, the R.C. Bishop
stepped forward and placed another book in his
hand—" whether a Breviary or a New Testament,”
says the Record, “ no one but his Lordship knows.”
It doesn’t seem to have occurred to these gentry
that there would have been any insult in pressing
the Governor, who is a Roman Catholic, to be
sworn upon King James’s Protestant calfskin.
The Rev. Mr. Dowie, late of Sydney, but
now of Melbourne, is curing people, right and
left by means of “prayerand faith.” The treat-
ment is very simple ; when you’ve broken your
lex in sixteen places, you send for Mr. Dowie.
»Have you much faith ?” says he. “ Why, cer-
tainly,” you reply. Then Mr. D. touches the six-
teen places, and if you can’t dance a double-shuffle
within five minutes, it shows you haven’t the exact
proportion of faith that’s required. No newspaper
men have been curad up to the time of going to
press, which speaks badly for their religious train-
ing.
What is it that gives the schoolmaster his
semi-sacredness of character? His life is not a
cloistered one, and be has taken no vows which he
cannot, on one month’s notice, be emancipated
from. He can chuck his billet when he pleases,
and go to road-making, or law-making, as the
spirit moves him. In these latter capacities, he
can smoke a pipe, or bring a barmaid to a picnic,
or ogle a girl, or spin a narrative from Boccaccio,
and the measure of his misbehaviour, is the com-
mon measure of his race. But if he do any of
these things while he is a schoolmaster, he is sized
by a different strap altogether. He is not even al-
lowed to say “ off my chump.” “ Oh, Mr. Bolam,
Mr. Bolam,” ejaculated the shocked Purves, “ off
vour chump ! and you Inspector-General of the
State schools ! Oh, Mr. Bolam!” And every-
thing the volatile Bolam of divorce celebrity did,
was levelled against the same yard-stick. Now,
there is something that wants mending here. We
don’t see why a schoolmaster should be made limit
himself to private vices only.
Hanlan, the champion, carries everything
before him in an ice-boat, as in a racing-skiff. Ice-
boating is his favourite amusement after the
glorious Canadian winter sets in, and the frozen
bay at Toronto provides splendid sport for such as
feel at home in a temperature of 30deg. below
zero. So reckless, though, is the champion in his
navigation, that many old hands are chary of sail-
ing with him: his passengers are too frequently
treated to spills. Now, a spill from an ice-boat,
rushing over a rough surface at the rate of some-
thing like a mile a minute, is a rather exciting
episode. Last winter (January of this year)
Hanlan sailed a friendly match with a Captain
Kelly—the loser to distribute some sacks of flour
among the poor of Toronto. Hanlan only won by
a few yards, but the distance—about 13 miles—was
declared to have been covered in eleven minutes.
Even accepting that timing with a grain of salt,
the fact remains that an ice-boat, in full sail and
with a favourable wind, can give the “ go by ” to
the ordinary railway train.
It is cheering to learn that the Siamese
Minister at the Court of St. James’s, who was only
a Hmaum Chow, has been made a P’ra-ong Chow:
and that the gold spittoon which is part and parcel
of the Insignia of his new rank has been forwarded
to London. A little society item like this is calcu-
lated to cheer the spirit and refresh the soul. Not
even the news that the member for Bungalong
had had last summer’s tweeds cleaned could be
more thrilling. It is our intention, when the
proper arrangements are made, to go more into
this invigorating style of journalism. We don’t
exactly say we shall always soar as high as the
dyeing of the country member’s tweeds; but we
trust, if we spare no expense in the engagement
of a staff that circulates in salons, we shall, at
least, occasionally be enabled to turn out a society
article which, for softness of touch and smooth-
ness of colour, will give a gleam of satisfaction to
our constituents. This comparatively new depar-
ture will, we are sure, meet with general ap-
proval.
Victorians have reasons to be fond of I heir
Dow, their John L. Dow—who, by the way, re-
turned from “Murker” by the last ’Frisco mail,
and was therefore in Sydney the other day. When
he entered the House at the top of Bourke-streot,
everyone felt that America in miniature was look-
ing on. But what increased the interest was that
everyone knew that America in miniature would
not stay looking on merely, but would, at the first
and earliest opportunity “stump.” This know-
ledge was quickly verified. The side of the head
with the face on it, which contained the great
agricultural authority’s” mouth, was levelled
against the electric fluid, and the purest Yankee
oratory welled out. He was full or what he had
witnessed abroad. It began with Dow and ended
with Dow, and the full chord of his harmonious
utterance consisted of dn-fa-la-do. Sometimes he
would strike a rio-misol-do ; but on these occasions
ne was unsteady, and the result came out do-mea-
He reminded us of a Commissioner that
Queensland once sent to Philadelphia. None of
us knew him when he came back. . . . But, no;
we 11 not cough, poor dear old Angus I What was
the weight of the biggest potato last year ?
When Cicero said “ Disimmortalibus Cari”
'tuti. 3, 30, 66) he doubtless meant to consign the
juformer Carey to Pluto. But Virgil seems to have
had him clearly in mind in the couplet in which,
without mercy to the father of seven children, he
“ids him depart, a burden as he is around the neck
ot the Irish people, and distinctly tells what a
Pleasure it will be to shoot him through the
shoulders:
Drgo age. Care pater, cervice imponere nostras:
ipse subibo humeris, necme labor istegravabit. ’
jf. 0re than once, under the thinnest mythological
“isguise, Virgil refers to the present confusion,
mentioning Ireland by name;
„ “ Tot Erinys sibilat hydris,”
®on hisses with all her serpents”; or more
“uangely prophetically does Britain seem to speak;
in flammas et in arma feror, quo tristls Erinys,
vuo fremitus vocat, et sublatus ad oethera
M clamor.”
J: plun ged into incendiary fires and murders,
niJ; re sullen Erin howls and raises a heaven of a
rumpus.’'
Wh en a meeting of citizens is held in Mel-
Su ?5 n ®’ and a determination come to to express
tePnt } ly some exalted personage the sentl-
Eio-not the “ mass,” it is always necessary to de-
“msB >> rnouth-pieces for the function. The
Bui**’ faking its own sweet way, would be
e f° crowd over the sentiment as well as the
standing'-room. To do this design : islness
right is the hardest thing of the mec j sualiy
a foremost citizen is told off, and t • << ■ aers of
the same ilk, and the deputed conti •• t mean-
ders up to the exalted personage, and /ay that
sentiment is expressed makes the 1 of the
“mass” squirm. Now, these angula nen who
blurt out an awkward fact should nev be let on
such a commission, or should be kept a the tail of
the meanderers with the door-hand 3 in their
mouths. The “ mass ” had affirmed that Mr. Dodg-
shun was “a most illustrious and distinguished
Mayor.” That was to be the run of the thing, and
there was to be no embarrassing analysis of the
grounds of the belief thus conveyed. But Judge
Cope was the foremost man that time, and although
his coat-tails were a couple of times pulled, he
persisted in giving a reason for the faith of the
“ mass.” A1 is, all the lustre and distinction which
constituted the halo round the hero’s head, were
traced down to the fact that in his term of office
the Mayor hod been a verv near approach to a free
restaurant keeper—the citizens had dined at no-
thing a head I For saying the right thing at a wrong
time, as well, indeed, as for saying the wrong thing
at any time, few men in Melbourne can cope with
Cope.
An American hotel chambermaid, we read,
recently asked Whittier, the poet, for his auto-
graph. He then wrote her this:—
“ The truth the English poets saw
Two centuries back is thine —
‘ Who sweeps a room as by God’s law,
Makes room and action line.’
And, in thy quiet ministry,
To wants and needs of »ur I see
How gr, ce and toil may well agree.’
Charmed with this pretty verse, the girl—writes
The Bulletin's local correspondent - tripped
round the corner to the store to show it to her
“chap,” who did the poet’s corner for a local
paper. Hardly had Whittier digested his buck-
wheat cakes and porterhouse steak than he re-
ceived the following:—
To Greenleaf Whittier.
It seems that “fresh” thou art in thy green age;
In boyish while* a somewhat large investor.
Why can’st thou not recall the “ English poet s
paffe, ,,
“ How ill grey hairs become a fool and jester.
Reca'llt; and, in ’meantime, straight, old pal,
Don’t you be tryln’, now, to “ mash ” my gal.
Ten minutes later the “ boots ” was busy cording
the poet’s shoe-trunk.
Hugh M‘Oullough was on the point of
coming in for a vast fortune last week. No, it
wasn’t by marrying into it. There was no dis-
agreeable condition like that attached to it.
Neither was it in consequence of having contri-
buted signally to the prosperity of the State.
Hugh’s highest effort in that line consisted in a
recent attempt to swallow a three-shilling bottle
of colonial rum. Nor did behold the next number
to first horse in a racing sweep. There would be
nothing calling for comment in such a matter as
that. Everyone who has dabbled in sweeps has
had that experience. Hugh’s close brush came
about in this way. He was brought up at the Mel-
bourne City Court for insulting behaviour in the
street. The magistrate was about to send him
“inside,” when a disinterested spectator asked to
say a few words. “ That man,” said the spectator,
“is, I can affirm, a relative of Lord Belu s.
Blake and Riggall, the solicitors, are looking
tor him, and I can satisfy the court as to his
identity. They have traced him through several
lunatic asylums. He is the heir to immense es-
tates in Ireland.” The Bench looked at Hugh, and
was going to ask him up to dinner; and the editor
of the U T. sent over his card, and Hugh lifted his
head in the proud consciousness of being now at
last able to command unlimited whiskies. But,
more Hibernico, he would not take over his estates
from the spoiler without cleansing his reputation
from the calumnies cast upon it by nefarious
oppressors. “ You say I have been in lunatic asy-
lums?” asked Hugh. “It’s false; I never was.
Then that spectator, who was near-sighted, stepped
over to the dock, and looked more clost. ly into the
veteran’s face. “ Your Worship! he ened, tvirn-
ing to the Bench, “ I made a mistake. That b not
the man I meant, at alll” The Bench said nothing
about the dinner, the editor of the D.T. pretended
he had dropped the card by accident, and poor
Hugh, again more Hibernico, wished he hadn t
spoken.
The Melbourne footballers are represented
in Parliament by Jack Gardiner. The most un-
pleasant blue-bottle in Jack’s porridge is tha. the
papers do not do him justice. -A-gainst the Press
he wages an unpitying vendetta. He complains
bitterly that the speeches compiled with such art,
rehearsed with such industry, and delivered with
such esprit, are placed before the world in a shock-
ingly mutilated form—their weaknesses magnified,
their beauties banished. To make amends tor the
spite of its reporters, the Argus some time ago
published verbatim one of John s oratorical roc-
kets. It was the severest blow yet dealt to Parlia-
mentary government and manhood suffrage. Gia-
fashioned people read and re-read it, and then
strolled up Carlton way to get one square look at
the man who delivered it, before they died-
Alfred Bailes, the present Mayor of Sandhurst, is
known as the “ provincial Jack Gardiner. So tar
as numbering all the Bendigo athletes among his
supporters, the comparison holds good, but, after
that, all resemblance ceases. Alfred is a pushing, en-
terprising, manly little publican, who does a roaring
trade, sings a good song, and gives a Uft to a
brother in distress without climbing on the house-
tops to proclaim it. He Is an old Argus pressman,
too, and boasts with pardonable pride of having
“set-up ” the first cablegram wired from England.
To him the Sandhurst Mayoralty is but a tempor-
ary halting-place on the road to the big debating
House to the top of Bourke-street, where M'Coll,
Burrowes, and Major Smith explain to empty
benches the principles underlying irrigation,
mining, and educational appointments. But, alas I
publican though he be, he copies his predecessor—
a staunch water-sucker—in firmly planting both
feet at the door of the Town Hall cellar, and deny-
ing to thirsty councillors and their friends the
relief which is to be found in alcohol alone. When
we remember the choice things to be found in that
cellar in days gone by, and the ill-concealed pro-
fanity that rose unbidden to the Ups of members
during Mayor Harkness’ regime, we tremble for
Alfred’s popularity. He is not in “society.” Sand-
hurst “ society ” draws the |line at “ trade.” Mort
de ma vie, we shall have something piquant to say
on this presently. So speculation is on the tip-toe
of expectancy concerning the invitations to that
oasis in the humdrum life of a goldfield—a Mayor’s
ball. It is not in great cities that the absurdities of
commonplace people can be best studied. To see
human nature in its most ridiculous aspects, to
catch it en deshabille, observe the motives that
sway, the affectations that govern, and the strings
that pull it this way or that, one must Uve on a—
diggings. # #
John Cumming (of Western Victoria) has
gone. Apoplexy was what was the matter. He
was a shrewd Scotchman and a useful colonist.
His merinos were Al„ as also were his forest plan-
tations. ...Thus the S.M. Herald: “We have
heard of a stout beggar alleging that he had
walked all the way from the Gulf or Carpentaria.”
Surely this can’t be intended as a libel on young
Explorer Morrison?....Dean Macartney IMelb.) is
85—60 years in the ministry—and the staunchest
Sabbatarian ef them all. His friends in-
tend presenting him with a bust of himself...
Says Sir Henry Parkes, in a letter which arrived by
the last San Francisco mail:—“ For the most part I
have escaped the newspapers, keeping as quiet as
possible.” Hem! It was time. He might have
escaped the newspapers here if he had kept quiet.
Captain Mandevllle (Cerberus) is Mr. Berry’s
pet, and the Argus’ bite no r. The Chief Secre-
tary considers him adapted for the following
positions: Supreme Court Judge, Audit Com-
missioner, Master in Lunacy, Scab Inspector, Town
Clerk, Astronomer, Editor of the Telegraph,
Bishop of Melbourne, Chaplain of the Fleet, Master-
in-Bqulty, Chief Railway Commissioner, and Sur-
veyor-General We have a new contemporary at
Nymagee. It is run by one Satharady Edderock-
man Oollow, and it is issued, not as one might sup-
pose, on Satharady, but on Tuesday ...“Many a
true word,” &c. Carr-Boyd and party are believed
to have been either lost, or killed by the blacks.
Some years ago, when Boyd had Just returned
from discovering the remains of the unfortunate
brothers Prout, he was at a banquet, and, r'sing to
respond to the toast of “The Sundowners,” said
that he had been “ bone-hunting,” and that
he had been too successful. He added that in
all probability some one would one day, go in
search of his own remains.
• ♦ *
Tom Thumb died comparatively young
for a dwarf. Richard Gibson, miniature painter
and court dwarf to Charles I., lived to be seventy-
live, and his dwarf wife, Ann Shepherd, to be
eighty-five. Sir Geoffrey Hudson, dwarf and
diplomatist to Charles II., expired at sixty-throe.
The far-famed Polish dwarf, Count Borulawski,
for whom George IV. provided, died also at an
advanced age... £1500 in English consols, at 2i per
cent., is the total sum left by Captain Webb...
The following is told about Julian Hawthorne s
Dresden life:—He had been driven from the side-
walk many and many a time by the German olfi-
oers, till finally he vowed that the next German
officer he met should at least give him half of the
side-walk. He soon met one, and neither being
willing to give way, they walked directly Into one
another. Hawthorne did not budge, neither
would the German. They glared at each other a
few moments, when the German drew his sword
and attempted to strike Hawthorne with the flat
of the blade. In a twinkling Hawthorne knocked
the officer down, took his sword away from him,
broke it across his knee, and threw it into the
Elbe. The disgrace of having lost his sword was
so great that the officer never dared to mention
the circumstance There’s a talk of Louis IV.,
of Hesse, marrying the Princess Beatrice, sister of
his deceased wife Alice. Clear, If so, why Wales
and brethren voted for the D.W. Sister s Bill......
George Vanderbilt, the fourth son of the American
railway king, has a strange ambition. He wants
to be a newspaper reporter. Wealth is nothing to
him; what he yearns for is fame. We wish he
would only take our fame in exchange for his
wealth. But of course he wants to make his own
fame. He will probably find out what it I- to sleep
in a gateway and be hungry a few times, and then
he will go back wiser, and get the old man to kill
the fatted calf for him....It is proposed to dis-
establish the Prince of Monaco by his own volun-
tary act. All he desires from the French Govern-
ment for the little that is left of his principality-
scant in area, but vast in chances —is £400,(XX).
They will have to give it to him soon, if he is ever
to get it. He has long been blind, and now a cere-
bral disease forecasts insanity — Mr. Joe Elliott,
who is sporting editor of the N.Y. Herald, has
been over 30 years on its staff, and is the only
writer on it who calls Mr. J. G. Bennett James
when he speaks to him. The elder Bennett left
Elliott a most generous pension when he died, but
the old sport loves his work and can’t bear to leave
it Poor Captain Webb’s widow, when she was
shown the whirlpool in which he sank, declared
her opinion, that he would have been all right if
he had not struck some rock in diving. “ Why,
said she, “ I could swim that myself.” Her judg-
ment, apparently, is not as great as her belief in
her husband’s invincible powers.
H.M.S. NELSON IS NOW IN PORT.


SATURDAY OCTOBER 13.
GRANVILLE.
ELIZABETH EARM ESTATE.
THE GRANVILLE PORTION.
27 l ALLOTMENTS,
including 1000 FEET MAIN ROAD FRONTAGE
opposite the railway station.
The MAIN BUSINESS STREET of the future city
THE ONLY MAIN ROAD FRONTAGE of any
extent to be submitted to public auction, and
over half a mile WATER FRONTAGE on tidal
water.
MILLS and PILE have been Instructed by S. A.
Stephen, Esq., to sell by auction on the
Ground, on SATURDAY. October 13, at 3 o’clock.
The most v luabl', of the whole Elizabeth
Farm Estate, eonprising 70 acres, being
the Granville portion of the estate,
commencing opposite the station on the
Sydney-read.
SUBDIVIDED INTO 370 ALLOTMENTS,
fronting
THE MAIN SYDNEY ROAD
GREY-STREET
A’BECKETT STREE C
DUCK-STREET.
ELIZABETH-STREET
KBMP-STREET
ALFRED-STREET
ONSLOW-STREET
ARTHUR-STREET.
TORRENS’ TITLE.
VERY EASY TERMS. LONG CREDIT.
ONLY 5 per cent, interest.
Lithos. arc now ready at 130, Pitt-street.
A SPECIAL TRAIN to convey buyers to the
Sale will leave Rcdfern at 3.15, returning at 5 35
KING TAWHIAO.
Monk’s New Zealand Herbal
Remedies (Registered),
Trade mark—“ King Tawhiao,”
m H B N. Z. H E R B A L EXTRACT
I can bo administered to Infants of the most
tender age, and to all other parents, however weak
and delicate, with peifect safety and certainty of
IMMEDIATE RELIEF AND EARLY CURE.
THE N.Z. HERBAL REMEDIES
are made solely
FROM HERBS, SHRUBS, AND BARK,
indigenous to Now Zealand only,
and NO DRUGS hitherto known to the raoJicil
world are contained in the above medicines.
The N.Z. Herbal Extract cures ABSOLUTELY’
Dvsentery, Diarrhoea,? Cholemtic Dianboea, and
Cholera, as NO OTHER medicine yet known to
the world can do. It CUR* - S. euuady wcil, chronic
or acute cases of the WORST kinds, and givts
INSTANTANEOUS RELIEF in every case.
FromCapt. Cromarty, U.S.S. “Penguin.”
Auckland, June 19 th, 1883.
Dear Sir,-I am much pleased with the action of
vour “ Herbal Extract” that you supplied me w th.
Onth ■ passage to Fiji I cuied one man ot au
attack of Dysentery with three doses, and on
the return voyage a lady brought a child on
board very ill with Chronic Dysentery, which the
doctors ccnild not cure in Hji; the secqnd day
the Dysentery stopped and the child lett at
Auckland getting quite strong and hunt3 I
am, dear sir, yours faithfully. - W. L. Cbomakty
What a Medico Says !
Rangiora, July 7,1881.
Sir, -Having carefully examined the N.Z Herbal
Extract, 1 lind it to be a skilfully prepared vege-
table preparation, possessing tue properties ol me
nlunts from which it is deuved in a highly lou-
centrated state, a fact which i have verified b>
evaporating a fluid drachm placed in a watch-
glass overa spirit lamp. On weighing the result,
a dark green extract, .1 found the weightto he H 4
grains. On further submitting the extract-.u
analysis 1 found it to be i ich in tannin. In a large
number of cases of ordinary diarrhoea, as we las
m many chronic cases and in ojsenteiy, 1 ,
proved it to contain great specific control, added
!,o the unusual leature m a majority ot diarrnffi
medicines, thut it docs not subsequently const i *
Se b .wels. 1 fell satisfied that, from the nmiber
Ot trials 1 have been enabled to make ot tm*
somew hat extensive practice, it is a most \aiuu
addition to modern therapeutics.
The following cases are taken at randown n°
my note book : —
Case No. I.
Mrs m , West, Byerton, suffered for two
years from Cnronic Dyseutery, wnicu had reduced
go? almost to a skeleton. „After a torcn.ght s ttg.
her almost to a skciclou. “ cuUj .
not only had the Diarrhoea stopped, but she t
inenced eating meat without pam and!h . ,
“oncomitent vomiting. In two months she had
gained 181bs weight.
Case No. S. (
A. G.. child, aged live years. Fortnight Diurr jo:
Was effectually cured on the third day.
Case No. 3.
A soldier who had contracted Dysetflery^
India got a small two ounce phial, and
before he had finished half or it.
(Signed) &Cm
ICHABLES DeLACV MACCABTHY, M.A., M H-'
Trinity College, Duuuu.
Surgery, Rangiora, July 1881.
Monk’s New Zealand Herbal Mlxt« re
lor Neuralgia. jB ,
The mixture acts like a charm in the above
lul disease, and giving instantaneous renei.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
From Captain Kennedy, U.S.S. “ Ha “ r ° t( ’L 3>
Port Chalmers, February
Dear Sir,—Thanks for the Medicine y°^ y tha t
:ind enough to send me. ba Y e N ° e u«il*ia Inge
n my case-a severe attack of Neura*s u ba>
icad-it afforded me considerablei ie n na0? e-
dso the advantage ot not being In theieaa
ius like most remedies.
I remain, dear sir.
Yours faithful)•
A< Kennedy
Mr. H. D. Monk.
Temporary Offices:
Horace D. Monk and Fred. J. Muir am- 1
99, Elizabetb-stieet,
Sydney, N.8.W.
Tlxe IRellaTble B'u.grg'les I
,
I ~i ii
NO SECOND CHEAP HOUSE.
22 and 24 CLARENCE ST REE 1, ONLY,
fob. good goods.
EXPRESS WAGGONS & WAGGONETTES,
BACKBOARD WAGGONS, AND EVERY STYLE OF BUGGY.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Clarence-street.
mm
4
VIRTUTIS GLORIA MERGES.'
COALCLIFF COAL.
This NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY_ supplies thei CHEAPEST, CLEANEST, and
llb THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony,
£1 per Ton net, delivered within city bounds.
™» now c™.i .with»“5 """j'
more last inn, and cleaner ftre that any < • the Western, but it affords that domestic desideratum
Newcastle ooal, nor does it sp infer Md fly off like the w^^, a nut ftk thoroughly and cleanly as a
charcoal flr*e,\vhX lUmparts fo the steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwhole-
some fumes given off by a breeze or gas fire.
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
Office: A. B. BLACK, 247 George Street.
gy DEPOT: WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
KS
m
s
m
%
s
o
E
o
&
o
o
o
Q
cc
%
&
C5!
•*Oe Mb
f BROOK'S SIX-CORD
[ SOFT COTTON
i. ON
! NEW SHOULDER KEEL
VERY CAREFULLY MADE j BROOK’S PATENT
fob I glac£ thread
HAND & MACHINE SEWING, j
White, Black & all HEW SHOULDER REEL.
dsh
JaiesMLSLX&TZN & CdPY.,
389 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite Royal Hotel.
The BICYCLE and TRICYCLE DEPOT of New South Wales.
3 and the advantages of our different machines.
Our Bicycles
are unquestion-
ably at the head
of ail competi-
tion, and being
specially de-
signed for colo-
nial require-
ments, cannot
fail to give
every purchaser
satisfaction.
N
nffh
m
Our
Tricycles
combine every
advantage
claimed by our
competitors,
and have many
most valu able
improve ments
which no other
The ONE-MILE ChImPIONSH t P o( ENGLISH
The Best Four-mile Time Record was made on the CLUB RALM‘.
Vhl M o.Vthc CLUB RACER.
James Martin & Compy.. 389 George-stwet, Sydney.
o
P E B A
HOUSE.
Lessee Mr. W J Wilson
Sub-Lessee Sig. E. Majerom
Actios Business Manager.. Mr. S. Geneso
THE HIT OF THE SEASON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8,
SAM’L O’POSEN.
'Mr POLK as Mr. POLK
Mr. POLK SAM’L O’POSEN, Mr. POLK
Mr. POLK Commercial Traveller. Mr. POLK
Mrs. POLK, acknowledged the most accom-
plished Vocalist in the colonies, will introduce, by
request, the two popular songs—
“ The Nightingale’s Trill" and
“ The Pretty Girl milking her Cow.
Private Boxes, £2 2s ; Dress Circle, 5s; Stalls, 33,
PIT. ONE SHILLING.
Box office now open at Huenerbein’s, 41 v,!? 60 * ’
Tickets for sale at Roberts's, adjoining Iheatre.
Cr
ATETY THEATRE
Lessee and Manager. .Herr Bandmann.
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT,
TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS of JOHN L. HALL
us CAPTAIN GINGAH in
OUR GIRLS, OUR GIRLS, OUR GIRLS,
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 5,
Farewell Benefit of J. L. HA LL& JESSIE GRAY.
THE OOV’NOR.
Extraordinary Engagement. Will shortly appear in
a new Fairy Extravaganza,
CHAS. HBYWOOD and HIS HAPPY FAMILY,
and GEO, W. L YWLE IS, Tyrolean Warbler.
Box Office at Paling’s and Gaiety Theatre, where
seats can be booked daily. .. ,
Admission-Orchestra Chairs (reserved), at
Paling’s, 4% : Stalls, 3s ; Circle, Family Circle, 2s :
ENLARGED PIT, Is.
THEATRE RO Y a L.—Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & Mlbqrove.
In
THIS and TO-MORROW EVENING,
at a quarter to 8, _
BLAND HOLT’S TRULY GIGANTIC
DRAMATIC COMBINATION,
the Poetic and Sensational London Drama,
written by Henry Pettitt, Fsq., entitled
TAKEN FROM LIFE.
SATURDAY NIGHT, “ PLUCK.’’
Prices as usual. Box office open from 11 till 4 .
HALL
Masonic
Y orli-gtrcct •
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. F. B. Hiscocks.
The Home of incessant Mirth and Music.
The Most Com fort able and .Select LoungemSydney
ANOTHER SUCCeSS ACHIEVED.
FlbTH WEEK, FIFTH WEEK
of
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MIVSTRBLS and
SPECIALITY UNION. „ , ,
Admission —Kautcuils, 4s; Stalls, 3p; Pit, 2s; Oal ,1s.
A omission C / A> MADDICK, Secretary.
EDUCATIONAL.
MISS LYDIA HASTINGS Instructs in VOICE
BUILDING. ELOCUTION. PUBLIC and
PARLOUR READINGS. Class at SYDNEY
SCHOOL OF ARTS, Friday, 4 p.m. : and at
SYDNEY AKCADE, Room .35, Thursday, 3 p.m.,
Wednesday, 8 p.m. (Ladles and Gentlemen).
Visitors invited.
Private Lessons, for Ladies or Gentlemen,
g4 HUNTER STREET, opposite Elizabeth-street.
Terms for Schools or Clubs on application.
TO PROFESSIONAL TROUPES.
"WOW open for engagement at NYNOEN, near
Railway Station, the
“ASSEMBLY ROOMS.’’
a large and well-appointed HALL. Apply to
HEARD & M’KKN.v V, Agents.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
TO LET from 5th November next. Terms on
application to Thos. Setright, care ot
Elvy and Co., 329 Goorgo-stroet, Sydney ; or the
undersigned,
JAMES B. HICK IE,
Brisbane.
(THOMPSON'S COLOSSAL MIRROR OF THE
ZULU WAR.
NEW DIORAMA
OK
EGYPTIAN WAR!
W. H. THOMPSON. Proprietor.
SYL. RYAN, Agent.
ALC0CK& CO.’S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
SOLE AGENTS
CO
375 Gcorge-st., Sydney.
TIME PAYMENTS, IF REQUIRED.
SEARL & SONS,
NURSERYMEN, SEEDSMEN, BOUQUETISTS,
And .Artistic Floral Dinner-table Decorators,
3 and 5 GEORGE-STREET MARKETS, SYDNEY;
Also,
BLAIR ATHOL NURSERY', PETERSHAM.
tST’ 1 ' Pelargoniums now in full bloom. Inspection
invited.
PAPER KNIVES, Ham Knives, and Bread
Knives, just arrived, F. G. Bbjvnbtt, Kiug-st.


Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 2nd October, 1883.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.—tenders are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies, For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a tile of whichi
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when thetenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before tho
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and SuppU**
Wharf, &c., Garden Island 1
Bridge over Sandy Creek-road,
Armidale to Inverell
Erection of Goods Shed, at Bal-
lina, Richmond River
Erection of Wharf, at Seven
Oaks, Macleay River
Supply of Small Stores, Railway
Department, 1884
Supply of Rolled Iron Girdcx-s,
Darling-hurst Gaol.
For Posting Advertisementes
and right to Bookstalls at Rail-
way Stations
Contract 34m, Watson’s Bay-road
Construction of Wrought Iron
Water Tank for Railway De-
partment
Advertising In Tramcars.
Cast Iron Cylinders for Bridges I
on the Railway Extension |
Homebush to Waratah
Erection of NewCourt-house, I
Deniliquin
Erection of Police Buildings, I
Tenterfleld I
Erection of Bathurst Gaol,
Bridge over Burrowa River, at |
Coffey’s Crossing
Erection of Lock-up, Murrum-
burrah.
Extension of Breakwater, Mo-
ruya
Erection of Police Buildings,
Ironbarks, and for the Re-
moval and Re-erection at that
place of Court House and
Lock-up, Stoney Creek
Erection of Police Quarters,
Quirindi.
Construction of Works, 3rd Sec-
tion Illawarra Railway.
Renting Refreshment - room,
Penrith Railway Station
Dates to which
Tenders canbe
received a is
this office.
9th October,
at 11 o’clock.
16th October,
at 11 o’clock.
23rd October,
at 11 o’clock.
30th October,
at 11 o’clock.
F. A. WRIGHT.
General Post Office,
Sydney, 39th September, 1883.
CONVEYANCE OF MAILS.
Supplement to General Advertisement, dated the 3rd
September, 1883, calling for Tenders for Mail
Services, to commence on the 1st January 1884.
TENDERS for the following Mail Services will
bo received up to noon on Tuesday, the 33rd
October next, viz
Western Roads.
63. Murga and Bumberry, once a week.
64. Wellington, Mountenores, Comobella, Murrun-
gundy, Cobbora, Merrygoen, Mundooran.
Warkton, and Coonabarabrani by the new
line of road, twice a week, for one year only.
63. Merrygoen, Binnaway, and Coonabaiabran, via
Caigan, Sunnyside, Popagandra, andRlvers-
dale, twice a week.
66. George's Plains RailwayjStation and Post Offices,
Cow Flat and Rockley, six times a week.
Southern Roads.
93. Cooma, Gegedzerlck, and Buckley’s Crossing-
place, via Woolway, once a week, for two
years only.
93. Bodalla and Wagonga Heads, once a week.
94. Eurobodala, Wagonga, and Corunna, twice a
week, for two years only.
95. Thackaringa Post Office and the Garot Mine,
near Thackaringa, once a week (Contract
to terminate at three months’ notice on
either side).
96. Wheeo and Narrawa, twice a week; and to and
from Narrawa, Reid's Flat, Graham, and
Cowra, along the south side of the Lachlan
River, via Bennett’s Springs, once a week.
97. Cobargo and Tilba Tilba, twice a week, for two
years only.
98. Broughton’s Creek and No wra, six times a week.
Northern Roads.
94. Summer Island and Arakoon, twice a week.
95. Limeburnor’s Creek and Hawke’s Nest, via
Alicoton and Covey Creek, once a week.
96. Kempsey, Frederickton, Clybucca, Nambucca,
Deep Creek, Fernmount, and Boat Harbour,
three times a week, by coach ; with a branch
mail to and from Nambucca and Nambucca
Heads, three times a week, on horseback.
97. Boggabri and Mullaley, via Guest’s, W, Conroy’s
J. J. Conroy’s, W. Kelly’s, J. Conroy’s, w.
Tey’s, J. P. Whiteman’s, and Cunningham’s,
once or twice a week.
98. Barraba, Eulourie and Moree, via Burindi,
Campo Santo, Tareela, Little Creek. Curran-
gandi, Ullembarella, Pallal, Dera, Banghet,
Ginerol, Gravesend, Binnigi, and Baldwin’s,
once a week.
The above Services—Nos. 66, Western Roads ; 96,
Southern Roads ; and 97 and 98 Northern Roads,
are called for in lieu of the Services Nos. 28,
Western Roads ; 24, Southern Roads ; 54, Northern
Roads, advertised in the General Advertisement,
dated the 3rd September, 1883, which have been
withdrawn.
For full particulars see Government Gazette, a
file of which is kept at every Post Office in the
Colony. No tender will be considered unless tho
terms ©f tho notice published in the Gazette be
strictly complied with.
" W, J. TRICKETT.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 35th September, 1888.
TENDERS FOR ERECTION OF GIRLS’ SCHOOL.
AND FOR TAR-PAVING.
TENDERS are invited for tho Erection of Girls’
School, and for Tar-paving, at the Camper-
down Public School.
Plans and Specifications may bo seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained, at the office of the Department
of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Girls’ School,
and Tar-paving, Oamperdown Public School,”
must be lodged with the Acting Under-Secretary.
Department of Public Instruction, at or before 10
o’clock a.m. on Monday, the 33nd October, 1883.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender. G. H. REID.
11/TONEY LOANS GRANTED at moderate inte-
JjX. rest on Furniture (without possession),
Deeus, Bonds, Certificates, Shares, or other Secu-
rities, payable to suit convenience.
No Deduction made from amount Required,
which wi.1 be paid in full within twelve hours of
application.
MONT DB P1BTE CENTRAL LOAN OFFICE,
93 CAV.TLREAOH STREET,
One <Jcqt South of King Street,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal— “ Taken from Life.” p. 8.
Opera House— “ Sara’I o’Posen ” i'o.
Gaiety Theatre—“Our Girls” ib.
Masonic Hall.—Federal Minstrels lb.
Now that we’ve pretty well done with the
Horwitz divorce case, here’s a little item which
will “give pleasure to all.” Patti was sick the
other day, and couldn’t appear at the Albert
Hall (an obscure place of amusement In the West
End of London), and an apology in French was
circulated amongst the audience signed “Nicolini.”
Evidently, from this, M. Nicolas has something to
do with it. We have been all these years under the
impression that—and now— The audience was dis-
gusted at this impropriety ; and so are we. It is
truly painful to contemplate things of this kind.
Yes, boys, it is I But if we got a platonically
worded invitation to Craig-y-nos Castle in the off-
season, how would the shutters be clapped up in
the little grocery, and how would we travel I
Yes.
* * * *
Mr. Dumpier and the “fairy actresses,”
open on Saturday week at Newcastle, when they
are to produce “The Green Lanes of England,”
“ The Black Flag,” and other classic dramas. Lieut.
Bose engineers the show, and we hope that when
be returns he’ll be a very full-blown rose indeed.
We may remark that Mr. R. has “put up” the sugar.
He has, in this matter, equally our congratulations
and our sympathy. One week at Newcastle, and
then to Grafton by special steamer.
• • * •
Before we chronicle a hideous libel, let us
state that Lotti Wilmott (whom we thought was
dead, or—as Snug would say, “ translated”)—is
lecturing on “ cookery” in New Zealand. We
should think Lotti ought to shine in this, since
there is no lady of aristocratic pretentions who has
travelled more and as a consequence had such a
varied experience of hash as Madame Wilmott. It
may not be out of place to say that Lotti has had
a chequered if not (and we don’t know why not)
distinguished career. She arrived here (we are
afraid to say how many years ago) with Horace
Wigan’s “Kag Fair,” in which the lovely Lotti
played the heroine. Owing to the vitiated taste of
a degraded community, “ Bag Fair” didn’t turn in
more than a million, and wasn’t very much
more of a success than Signor Savonaroni’s
Hamlet, with a dog and monkey company, and a
German concertina in the orchestra. Lotti next-
hut, tor brevity’s sake, we’ll lightly skip over a
hundred moons or so, and say that she has been a
temperance lecturess, a lecturess on the “Social
Evil,” a denouncer of Chiniquy, and various other
things. And now she lectures on cookery. Bueno.
Which reminds us that it is about time to come to
the big libel. Well, it appears in the Straits In-
telligence as an “ extra,” which makes us
shudder. The allegation that a minstrel troupe
(painfully familiar m Sydney) should have cleaned
out Singapore, grieves us to the soul. It seems the
troupe cleared out from that town, owing no less
than S956. The paper shrieks nth indignation
at tcing “dobtorert” by “these velvet-tonguod
blank men,’’ and it says (which is funny)— The
Question arises, how is it possible fora company
of unprepossessing appearance to make such a
haul in Singapore. ’ It seems that the company
jrave the people “ brusher” in the Celestial and
other newspaper offices; and while the whole force
of the Singapore peace-officers were searching the
vessel, the wanted ones were playing draw-poker
in the lazarette. This troupe seems to have made
one fatal error. It didn’t pay its advertising ac-
count!
* * * ♦
En route. You’ve all heard of Marie Pres-
cott. Well, she is to play Vera, the heroine of
Oscar Wilde’s tragedy at the Union Square theatre.
Marie was the lady who recovered damages from
Harvier. a journalist; or, rather, she was awarded
damages. Hem! And how is this for front ?—A
Qoulburn paper took it upon itself to announce,
on behalf of Dan Barry, that he would play
“‘Euchred, or a Woman’s Devotion,’ in which
Mrs. Langtry secured a great success in America,
and it is said to be full of thrilling interest,
humorous incidents, and lovely music.” Wo
don’t say this is a “Mahooder,” but it is the first
*e’ve heard of it; and we shouldn’t be surprised
if it was the first Mrs. L. has heard of it likewise.
Now a sad item: Mrs. Piercy (Miss Augusta Dar-
ken) has leather brilliant little boy, aged?, and she
has all our sympathy. From grave to gay: Charles
Dickens was either twins, or he is not dead. We
hear of him lecturing at Auckland, where the
Polks open on the 30th October. And Wood-
year is there, too, getting his new circus in-
fo trim, which will shortly be quite ready to
clean out the town.” Think of this, too.
John Sheridan, an actor like Polk, only Polk-er, is
jo Polka out here with his “ Fun on the Bristol
Company.” And you would whistle to see how
the N.Y. papers are spreading the marmalade
over our old friend Morris Greenwall. He has
got Hermann, the conjurer, and has signed, so
they say, the following astonishing contract with
Mrs. Langtry', the season to begin in August,
MjW:—“Mr. Greenwall guarantees Mrs. Langtry
*500 weekly tor seven performances a week. He
*H1 provide first-class passages for live people—
Mr. Charles A. Menaum, Mr. Joseph Reynolds, Mr.
Cooper, her maid, and herself. Mrs. Langtry, on
her part, will play in the best theatre and be sup-
ported by the most competent persons in the pro-
mssion in Australia.” And furthermore—“Mr.
Greenwall says that notwithstanding the heavy
expense incurred, he has determined not to
advance the price of seats.” A good deal
2f this sort of thing would make us rather
ured. A little of it amuses us. And what
*e find also entertaining is that Eleanor Carey and
t*o other actresses nearly got drowned, sailing.
"heir loss would have been irreparable,” says the
Paper. Perhaps so. We can’t help wishing,
though, that a few of our actresses would acquire
a mania for boating! And fancy the Wilcannia
yjABTEHus being giddy. It says, rc the Buffalo
bunstrels recently performing there, “The ladies
3X6 all dressed in a somewhat opera bouffe style,
not particularly outre, but just sufficiently so to
show to advantage their handsome feminine pro»
portions.” If we wrote like that, we should have
to hide the broom.
m » m •
It seems poor Carry Nelson’s show recently
got a “ doing ” at the hands of the uncombed at
Wagga. The Riverine Star says: “During the
first portion of the performance, order was main-
tained; but as one of Miss Nelson’s assistants [!!]
gradually lost caste, so did the rabble in the back
seats increase in its violent and disorderly mani-
festations of displeasure at his acting and recit-
ing.” And a southern district paper hints that
another lady, recently, was to give a performance,
but the audience consisted only of two dogs and
the bellman, and one dog was her own. No infor-
mation of a reliable nature has reached us as to
whether the other dog got his money back. We
learn, too, that, at the close of her season in
Hobart, Miss Pomeroy delivered an address to the
audience. The text of it has not reached us; but
we know what she said, bless you! Here it is :—
Let me, before this curtain’s lowered down.
Address the dear friends of my native town!
Recall the days-none happier have I seen—
When I muched hardbake on the verdant green I
At marbles played, and e’en did not despise
The tipcat you send soaring to the skies !
In paper hunts indulged (that’s passed ’tis clear).
For you, dear friends, will find no “ paper” here.
(Applause.)
’Twas here I met my choice—soft things he said,
And let me (with emotion) lick the treacle off his
bread—
Warm apples gave me, and he showed no spite
When I my fingers poked right through his kite.
O joyous faces of my natal town!
0 fair, familiar form of Mrs. Brown!
And Mr. Johnson, too, he is no myth,
And Mr. Jones, and O, sweet Mr dmith!
1 am o’ercome, now, with emotion quite;
Friends of my native to wn—good night I Gou-o-o-d
night. (Sigh here.)
(Sohs in any quantity.)
* * * *
The dramatic critic of the Australasian
is surpassing himself in the literary splendour of
his notices. He says Jennie Lee’s Jo ranks with
the “ Othello of Brooke [!], the Rip Van Winkle of
Jefferson [!!], the Louis the Eleventh of Charles
Kean [MI], the Miami of Celeste, the Hamlet of
Montgomery [III!], and the Marie Antoinette of
Ristori ”[!!!!!], etc. “Then,” he says (and this is
almost incredible), “you might go every night in
the week during many weeks to see Jennie Lee’s
Jo, and not weary of seeing it.” Our italics, of
course. Then, of Melville’s company, Bmilie is
“ the perfection of distracting daintiness;” George
Leopold is a “necessarily (sic) irresistibly comic
potentate;” and Miss Davenport “is one of the
comfortably-eomely (sic) creatures you might wish
to see ” (sic). Thunder! But, no. We won’t say
“thunder!” We’ll sigh “Poor doctor!” And
why not go on and say that the Williamsons are
the idols of Melbourne, which will be plea-
sant reading. Whenever James hands Maggie
! into her chariot now he inflicts upon her
hand a perceptible squeeze, much to the con-
I fusion of the mashers and dudes who always
congregate to see her depart. When Mrs. W. was
! in Sydney, we used to congregate to see her de-
; part too, and when the Mascotie passed through
the office, wo used to detect ourselves raising our
hat feebly, and wrestling with the door-handle of
her carriage. But we could never open it. The
coachman, who was under a sworn contract never
to get down, for fear of disillusioning the public
with regard to his printed moles, looked on
helplessly, and it was not until half-a-dozen
check-takers came out and levered round the
handle, that Lizzie Stofel was enabled to get in.
On those occasions we retired from the chariot a
picture of disappointment and discontent. We
wonder what chariot Maggie will have when she
comes here ? Not that one, anyhow. For the
horses have coughed their heads off long ago, and
the coachman has died of his hat.
* * * *
And let us tell you, admiring readers, that
A. Litheriand Cunard writes us a long letter from
the Hong Kong Hotel, in which he says that Kellar
has strained himself and is seriously ill, which we
are sorry to hear. A. Litheriand also threatens us
with the return of Haselmayer, and tells us a real
bit of news, in that Chiarini is not blind after all,
but is the first to kick a Chinaman who tries to
ring into him a bad dollar. Chiarini has left for
Java, and the Loftus Troupe is scooping it in in
Hong Kong. Oh, and 8yd. Read (agent for the
Helen Vivian Co.) writes, too, and says that when
he asked for a soda-and-milk at Tamworth, he got
it. And he has been dreaming of washing-soda
ever since. It’s the way they make it up there:
milk, water, and a crystal. They (the company)
have been playing (so 8yd. says) costume cricket
matches, “ The Marble Heart,” and all sorts
of games ; and at their hotel their landlady
has a playful way of shouting out, at meals,
just as they have begun to lubricate their
chops — “ Aisy wid the butther there ; it’s
half-3-crown a pound,” a speech which re-
duces the singing chambermaid to tears, and covers
the company with confusion. “ What, more ?” you
will say. Plenty. Pour commcncer (this comes of
our goat straying into the school-girls’ play-
ground), the Williamsons made £1737 Os. in seven
nights of “ Struck Oil,” at the Melbourne Royal,
and neaily as much in “ Rip.” And the courtly
Courtenay, of the Parramatta Something,
says—we honour him by a quotation —“That
finished comedian and polished gentleman, Mr.
Polk, is about to visit the town of Parramatta
with his funniest of funny plays, entitled ‘An
Arabian Night.’” It’s “Nobbs’s choice” that
can write like this ! Which jumps us at once
to the tact that Frank Cates (we are very
sorry to hear) lost money by his reading
at the Melbourne Athena;urn; and Frank asks us
to return a charming lady her MS ; which we shall
be most happy to do, the boy having at this
moment gone out for a dray. And you must
know that “The Soldier’s Wife” is the title of
Sims new play for the London Adeiphi;
and that AgnesJConsuelo, who took Violet Came-
ron’s part In musical “ Kip,” at the Avenue
(London), is pronounced the wrong (no italics)
Mould for a successful opera bouffe artiste. The
lady is further described as an Australian actress,
and a paper says she' w’as born at Wellington—
which is possibly a misprint for Wapping. We
also are told that Amy Horton is going to play
(with Maggie Oliver, that giddy young thing!) In
the pantomime at Wellington. Why, we thought
—but we’re loaded up with that.
* * * *
Prince Methusalem ! His first appearance
in Australia ! Well, we were not going to be kept
away from the show. If there is one thing we like
better than doing nothing it is to assist at the
resurrection of a venerable ancestor. We had been
told a lot about Methusalem at various stages of
our career, so we rubbed in a little more hair-oil
than usual, and made a bee-line for the Princess’s
Theatre, Melbourne, on the first night to welcome
our relative. How we do alter our opinions at
various stages! Or rather how various stages
make us do it! The stage of the Princess’s had
that effect. We went there brimful of tears; but
there was nothing to shed them on. The old man
never showed. It was Emelie. She was Methu-
salem. Lightly and airily she tripped down the
palace stairs, and as the vision of scant drapery
and abundant loveliness smote our moist eye-balls
we sat upright and levelled our glasses at it. Then
we weren’t sorry any more that the old man stayed
away. Our heart felt warm, and we wished him
warm wherever he was.
• • •
This is the first time that the opera of
“ Prince Methusalem ” has been presented to an
Australian audience. Let us therefore give a few
plates of the intellectual repast. Johann Strauss
wrote the music, that is, a good deal of it. But he
was liberally helped by the company. They had a
tender pity for the hard-worked old maestro, and
our Farley and our Leopold chipped in here and
there with the Artt thing that came handy. This
made the audience feel lively, and Strauss some-
times got the praise which was due to one of the
noble band of Christy Minstrels. That was rough
on the Minstrel, perhaps; but he had his revenge,
for Sigismund would sometimes twang Strauss so
that the Minstrel, and not Strauss, got the praise.
“ Oh, beauteous May,” the chorus of the cavatina,
lingered pleasantly in one’s ears, and Pulciuella
and Methusalem warbled through “ Beauteous
night, oh, stay I” so as to make one long to hear it
again. The new tenor, William Walshe (why does
he not call himself Signor Dolor, or even Dollar ?
the two names Strauss hated in a cast were
Walshe and Smith) climbed up and slid down
some captivating scales without tearing any-
thing. He seemed a little in dread of that
eccentric earthquake that is cavorting about
the country: but when he got up reasonably high,
the semblance of dread disappeared, and his tone
was bold and defiant. No ; we are at operatic
criticism now, and won’t stoop to political and
religious analogues. All these rendering of “Prince
Methusalem” were very good, but, as we said, some
attributed them to the genius of the before-men-
tioned minstrelsy ; while, when Edward Farley
rolled out “ The Melbourne Presbytery is a fraud,”
and the jocose Leopold worked in “insipient g rass-
widows,” and our own familiar C.M.G.’s under the
guise of “ Colonial Money-Grubbers,” these same
people thought that Strauss’s score was followed
to the letter. No matter about them, however.
What We want to do, now, is to heap up a plate of
solids.
* * *
Can we get a plate out of the libretto ? It
is a thin whimsy. The scene lies somewhere in
Germany, where kings are more plentiful than
police, and impecuniosity is as demonstrative as
among the pressmen of Collins-street. King Sigis-
raund is hard-up. The best way to raise the wind
is to marry his daughter Pulcinella to Prince
Methusalem, the son of the Grand Duke Cyprian.
He puts his finger against his nose, and lays hoid of
that idea. The first act completes the idea, but
has some unfortunate accompaniments. After
the marriage he learns that Cyprian’s subjects
have revolted, and that consequently money is as
tight as ever, and so he separates the wedded pair
and orders his daughter to her own room. Pulci-
nella goes with reluctance, and Methusalem wan-
ders around the palace searching for her window.
Of course she has the window open, and when he
comes under it he sings “ If you cannot come down
to me, I will come up.” What struck us at the
time was how he could have expected her to come
down ? She had told him that the door was locked
and the window was half way as high as the moon,
and if she had attempted to come down she would
have broken something for a certainty. However,
he did the right thing when she refused to risk it.
He climbed up. In the second act, Pulcinella ex-
plains to her father how she spent the night. The
old man is more bewildered than ever. Cyprian’s
subjects are now in open revolt. Things work
round here, so that they offer the crown to Sigis-
mund. He takes it, and Methusalem determines
to take it back. That, of course, makes it ne-
cessary to have another act. So the curtain
again rises. Cyprian is dethroned. He is
on the streets with a donkey cart and a barrel-
organ. He turns the handle and grinds out the
story of his misfortunes, while his wife, Sophistica,
feeds the stolid donkey with carrots, and sings
some very effective snatches. In the meantime,
Methusalem is working up the military, and comes
on the scene with a cry of “ I’m the General ! I’m
the General I” He wins back the throne in a flash,
and of course collars Pulcinella as well, and at this
point you are given to understand that it you want
any more of it you must come again.
♦ * *
When talking of a performance got up by
Bmelie Melville, it goes without saying that the
spectacular effects were most beautiful. Were she
a painter she would have highly distinguished her-
self by a capacity for massing subjects on a large
field, and maintaining at the same time the full and
accurate representation of the individuals. The
pictures of language she is not so instinctively
conscious of. Miss Melville was a spirited Prince
Methusalem. and when Pulcinella had Miss Grade
Plaisted to love for her one could see Eden or
Tophet ahead. Miss Eva Davenport, as Sophistica,
showed she could both bruise and heal; while
Messrs. Edward Farley and George Leopold repre-
sented Cyprian and Sigistnund.
“FOOLS RUSH IN.”
Conclusion of Mendelssohn's Concerts. Loudly encored.
Important Citizen Rises Ladies and Gentlemen —The pleasing duty devolves on me to-a-make afew remarks. The—er—
science of music is to those who have cultivated the appreciation ” (Yells of “ Sit down, Encore. ) I.C. subsides during the
repetition, then explains that he had thought the piece was “God Save the CJueen,” and continues bis valuable remarks about the
science of music.


PEPPER AND SALT.
Thank God, this is a free country. We live
and learn, and the longer we live the more we
learn that this Is a free country. Well, it seems
that Mr. Leopold Jordan (who, it appears, is a
“journalist and dramatic author,”—bless him!)
went to board at the house of one Thomas
(ominous name) Parkes. What is genetically known
as “the hash,” however, not being to Mr. J.’s
liking, he paid up to date and went elsewhere to
seek stew of a stewperior character. Mr. Parkes,
however, being a firm believer in his own hash,
wants a week’s notice, and meeting Mr. Jordan
coming out of Millls’s entertainment (which he
managed) Parkes demanded a week’s money for
the lack of notice. To this Jordan replies that the
inferiority of the soup and bully, and the treacher-
ous nature of the dry hash rendered a notice
unnecessary. Mr. Parkes then (according to the
report) hit Mr. Jordan “ across the face with a
stick.” Jordan (who had, it is alleged, on
one occasion epigramatlcally characterized the
dinner as “ a plate of soup and an insult”)
summoned Mr. Parkes, who was fined, altogether,
in the sum of £4 12s., with the alternative of a
month. Jordan stated to several friends that he
intended to have retaliated on Mr. Parkes, as he
had kept a piece of beef from a (Bunkum-street)
boarding-house, wrapped up in a pocket-handker-
chief, ready to slay anyone who annoyed him; but,
on the occasion of Mr. Parkes’s attack, he had left
it at home on the planner. Mr. Parkes paid his
“ Comus” writes to us as follows:—“ I have
but recently arrived from New Zealand, and am
desirous of finding a first-class (from an acting
point of view) amateur dramatic club. I under-
stand that there are four clubs in this city—viz.
‘Mercantile,’ ‘Lotos,’ ‘Hercules,’ and ‘Lytton. 5
Which of these would you recommend ?” Well,
we hardly know. If our correspondent is a Gen-
tile, we should strongly advise him not to join the
Mercantile Club, because no Christian in that or-
ganisation is allowed to get farther than carrying
on a banner, or crossing the stage as one of two citi-
zens meeting. Montmorencl Montcalm Ponsonby
Brabazon Paget Cecil de Vere Alphonso Beresford
Levy plays all the lovers, and when on, he wants all
the stage to himself, and to get out of the way of
his windmill-sails, you have to undergo the humili-
ation of crouching into the O.P. wing. There is a
certain advantage in belonging to the “Lytton,”
because if you have a long wait, you can go to the
back of the stage and indulge in a nap in Ben.
Palmer’s shoe. The “ Hercules ” has our good
word, because it is bossed by Bob Brierly—we
mean Jim Bainford (whose oallgraphy our cor.
respondent seems to have taken the loan of). This
club has another recommendation In Its favour.
It is always sure of an audience—at Glades vllle.
money; and we sympathise with him exceedingly.
Things are coming to a pretty pass in this land of
Freedom, if a landlord can’t make a mummy of a
boarder for not giving notice, or an equivalent,
when dissatisfied with the “tucker!” Why, we
light our engine fires two or three times a week
with men who only hint at credit. The last victim
was a clergyman whom we bailed out, and but
rest his charred and calcined bones!
Here is another instance of the utter im-
potence of dogmatic religion to control human
nature. On what is known as the “ Mission ” in
West Australia, designed originally to civilise the
aboriginals, but now in reality a splendid station,
bringing in heaps of coin to the Roman Catholic
Bishop, natives are mainly employed. These, of
course are converts to the true religion, wear
clothes, eat with a knife and fork, use soap; in fine,
conform not only to the ordinary usages of civili-
sation, but to the observances of the religion they
have embraced. But all this cleanliness and godli-
ness is confined to nine months in the year. Three
months in every year these black Christians turn
out in all the glory and bliss of savagedom, cast
aside their clothes, seize once more the rpear
and boomerang, and carouse again over under-
done kangaroo and ’possum in their natural happy
hunting-grounds I ’Tis just the same up in the
North-west Coast. The black will work like a
patient slave for two-thirds of the year for the
white, but he must have his three months’ holiday
to roam the wild woods in his natural nakedness
and savagery ! At this rate, according to orthodox
lights, wtien these darkles pass in their checks,
they ought to spend nine months of the year in
Paradise, and three months in the sulphureous
domains of old Beelzebub ! But, after all, are
the niggers a bit worse than the bushman who
must hay* his annual “ spree ? ”
Strauss, not Johann, the waltzer, but
David Frederlch of Ludwigsburg, if he have any
consciousness of how our world is now wagging,
must sometimes shed tears as he looks down on
the motley crowd that profess to have been
guided by his teachings. The author of the
“Leben Jesu” was miles away from being a
mountebank and leagues away from being an in-
tellectual posturer. But, when one looks at those
who profess that their “ eyes were opened ” by
the simple old student, one sees how good in this
life is fated to run to bad and wisdom to produce
folly. Bolam, Inspector-General of Victorian State
Schools, announced in Melbourne Divorce Court
the other day that Strauss had “ opened” his eyes.
Before the “opening” he had been studying
theology in the Wesleyan sense of the term I “But
I fell in with the works of Strauss, and my views
changed to what they are now.” To what they are
now ! Ten years ago David Frederich left his
vocal and other organs behind him, and wont away
where he may see us, but we cannot see, or hear, or
feel him; but it is our solemn, earnest, and abiding
conviction that if the old white-headed man of 66
years had only his lips and teeth for five minutes,
and bis right foot with the toes on it for the same
term, and were let drop through the roof of the
Melbourne Divorce Court when that announce-
ment was male, there would have been an in-
spectoral squeal that would have frozen the
marrow in the bones of the beche-de raer fishers
in Torres Straits, and, reverberating through the
mountains and valleys of New Guinea, would have
made Ernest Morrison believe that it was David
Syme, calling on him to tell the New Guinea
people that “ She is now eight pages and twelve
on Saturday !” Ah, Bolam, you erred widely.
Your intellectual calibre fits you better for Johann
Strauss than for the old student, once so eloque t.
but now, alas, so silent I
Propriety is being somewhat ostentatiously
paraded down Woolloomoolloo way just at pre-
sent. Miss Kate Kelly, (one of the fair witnesses
in the Bourke-street tragedy case) being asked bv
the Coroner why she had not attended to her sub-
poena before, sharply said “ Because I had no
clothes. D’ye think I was coming here naked?”
The very thought of such a scene seemed to
crumple up the Coroner. Another lady being
rather closely questioned, indignantly declared “ I
know no man but my husband. I have never
heard the name of Flaherty in my life. Such a
name does not trouble me—my husband is bother
enough.”
This is one sample of the immense benefit
the public derives from some of the work supplied
by the N.S.W. Government Printer. A few
months ago, something like half a hundred first-
class ledgers were supplied to the Sydney Tele-
graph Department, for the purpose of initiating a
new system of “squaring checks,”—or balancing
the accounts of each station for the previous day.
These ledgers were got up in the most approved
style and so well suited for the work that they
were actually kept in use for one consecutive day.
Then they were called off in order to prevent the
clerks from going stark, staring mad. And It is a
significant fact, that the present system of “ check
squaring.” over which so much valuable time is
wasted, is precisely the same as that which was
employed nearly 30 years ago, when £10 was con-
sidered* a good day’s taking, and the bulk of the
operator’s time was spent in pitching dumps at a
red rag for pennies.
“ Buchu-Paiba.”— Quick, complete cure all
annoying Kidney, Bladder and Uninary Diseases.
Druggists. Moses, Moss & Co., Sydney, General
Agents.
BRIEF MENTION.
TWO MEMBERS MEETING.
“ Lo,” said R.B., “ I do not smoke
He answered—“ That’s enough;
You’ve no time for the fragrant weed,
You have yourself to puff . ’
Out West, a coroner lately directed the
jury at an inquest to bring in a verdict otfekt dese
And a few minutes after, the erudite foreman
handed in the solemn decision:—“ We find that the
fellow deceased on—” &c., mentioning time and
place.
Judge Cansdell, the other day, sentenced a
would-be suicide at Forbes, to one minute's incar-
ceration, while Judge Dowling was in doubt at
Darllnghurst whether the law allowed a sentence
of less than seven years for such an offence. How
unanimous these Judges are !
Next to a certain distinguished Legislative
Councillor, the man who had the greatest appetite
in the colony was a very brilliant legal luminary.
The waiters of the Australian Club used to say to
him —“ What will you take for dinner, sir—a sheep
or a lamb?” And when he wanted more bread,
he’d say—“ Waiter, bring me another loaf.” Like
John Browdie, too, he often enquired—“ How
many pigeon pies goes to a breakfast ? ”
There is more fun in the get-up of a Pres-
byterian church, than most people are aware of.
You can’t ever tell what the get-up is composed
of. When the minister dies, you would think It
should feel it. When every minister dies, you
would be sure it had dropped out of the soul-sav-
ing system. But not a bit of it. You can take a
pole-axe to the congregration and saw away, but
while one old woman of the community say she
anchors on that church its walls must stand where
they are, and all the General Assemblies in the
world can’t make the door be shut. The Rev. H.
Buchanan gave this intelligence lately at Prahran
(Vic.). They tried it in Wisconsin. Thepastor had
died or run away; the next did the same ; so did
the next. Brigham Young came round, and the
congregation backslided. There was no pastor,
there were no people. The General Assembly
ordered the church to be sold to a storekeeper, but
one old woman stepped forward and said “ No !”
And there that church stood, despite the will of
the whole Assembly, and the old lady remained
oss, and cracked her lingers, till she became a
cherub 1
The detective force of Victoria are often
made the subject of very ungenerous comments.
The best efforts of human ingenuity cannot, it
should be remembered, result always in success.
As education advances, cunning will sink deeper,
and those whose object it Is to shun observa-
tion will qualify themselves for their under-
taking by a study of expedients covering a
vast area of human scheming. To run to earth
one individual of this class requires an exercise
of the combined talents of many men. We have
never been among those who cast aspersions on
the detectives of Victoria Individually. We ha\e
thought them individually a highly competent
body of men but we have confessed to a little
stint In our admiration when we considered their
numerical strength. We felt there should be more
of them, and regarded the economy of the Stats
as a blameable parsimony. In this age of aliases,
this age of false entries of names in steam-packet
and official registers, this age of ante-dating and
post-dating important documents, this age of
running over the world in pre-arranged disguises,
—we did not think the few detectives of Victoria
could do much. But we were wrong in this. In-
dividually and collectively their reputation is now
above cavil. They have succeeded, and our
respected friend, John Lament Dow, is again
within the realm of Victorian law All the machi-
nations of the Age did not avail to avert his fate.
The Echo has struck a new bard It is all
enterprise in that office now. Not content with
the melting lyrics of “Australia” and the soul-
stirring stanzas of the author of ‘Cold as Fish
Ponds Frozen,” the proprietary have laid on a new
poet. The dial of his meter discloses the follow-
ing
“ Katie has a garden ;
A cool and pleasant nook.
Thither to spend the noonday hour
She has ta f en her storybook.”
There is, to us, something inexpressibly touching in
this. You can fancy you smell the roses on the
flower beds, and read, as the sun darts his golden
arrows down upon Katie’s page—
“ A was an archer who shot at a frog,
B was a butcher that had a great dog.”
Katie, being heavy after apple-dumplings, goes to
sleep, which brings about another passage of in-
tense—even excruciating—pathos. Listen :—
\when Katie woke her eyes were moist,
Her hands were cl sped in prayer ;
She started up ; she shouted ‘Maud
But Maudle was not there.”
We can’t write any more about this now, because
our eyes are nearly as moist as Katie's. We have
only to add that the poem is by a distinguished
contributor to the Quarterly Review, and
that it is dated from Gladesville.
Dr. Youl, the Melbourne coroner, has been
at it again. The geologist who used to scare the
wits out of Sairey Scroggs by describing to her the
thinness of the crust of the earth, boars a deal of
resemblance to the sanitary medico. In the effect
he produced, at all events. Sairey gave up jumping
on the floor lest she might crack through, and on
principle objected to sweeping open places as the
superficies was too thin already. Melbourne is
now informed, and is ghastly at 'the information,
that the veil between it and unlimited contagion
is made of gauze, and with the coroner’s spectro-
scope corpuseles of every malady known since
Asculaplus can be seen floating about, protruding
mandibles through the gauze, and raving to batten
on the fair forms of the noblest of colonials. Even
the Melbourne Hospital, where all the skill of the
land is centred, and a mighty lot of money is
annually spent, is enveloped with only the same
gauze veil. If you go there, says the coroner, with
an injury that is not noticed, you will catch
erysipelas for certain. Now, we think all this
indicates a state of undue excitement. It is much
harder to kill a man than the coroner is aware of-
We have known men to go in and out of that
hospital with the most perfect impunity, and
although they had plenty of unnoticed injuries on
them they were as proof against erysipelas as
against moderation in drink. Haytm- is the best
corrective to the coroner, and since 1873 Melbourne
chronicles a decreasing death-rate. But the scare
is on, Sairey Scroggs is alarmed, and the melodious
You! is master of the situation.
It is from up North we get the latest ex-
ample of how pleasant domestic life can be made
by a really thoughtful wife. Her husband, a good-
natured, easy-going fellow (these tricks are never
played on men who’ve travelled), had some press-
ing business to transact, when his wife wished him
to accompany her in some society calls. His busi-
ness could not wait—hers could. She was
wavered. A compromise was effected. She pl e
her good name to do the calling herself, and ne
called Heaven to witness that, when his work wa*
completed, he would seek his darling, and convei
her home. The day came. She (so he though
started early to satisfy conventional requirement-
He returned from work as quickly as possible, re-
tired to the common bed-room to perform a bast.'
toilet, and sought her. She was not about. Cnei
he began to prospect. He knocked at the troo
door of every house in Bargowlahmine, obtaI £l!}fi
more anathemas from proprietors, and bites tr™ 1
dogs, than any ratepayer of this century. “
tried the back doors, too, and intruded on
privacy of many a poor working man, who",
preparing to aid digestion by beating WU J
Then he came home, disconsolate, dishevelled]■ “
drunk. He found his wife in bed. She had oev
there all along—watched him come in, watoheo n
go out, and seemed to enjoy her finesse.
still alive, which is about the hardest thing we 1
think of just now to say concerning him.
A BURGLAR'S CHILD.
A POEM.
With the red firelight casting fitful gleams
Upon each furrow of his oare-torn brow.
The burglar—" Scorcher,” as his comrades
Named him—sat in meditation deep;
While to his side his only child—the pledge
Of her whom tyrant Death, the Reaper
Of our poor mortality, full many years
Had gathered to her fathers—nestled close.
In happy peacefulness they sat; the father’s
Hand—well learned, like that of all
His kind, in oakum-picking and
The such-like craft-stroking the
Silken tresses of the boy.
Long stayed the silence quite unbroke.
Save by the restless, ceaseless ticking
Of the clock—’twas of marble,
And surpassing rare in workmanship;
For it had graced a wealthy
Merchant’s mantel —but, at length,
With anxious voice, the burglar spoke:
“ Tell me, now, if thou hast formed
A plan as to thy future walk in life ?
Thou’rt young, my son, but yet
Intelligence thou hast of greater years;
Maybe, already some deslrement fills
Thy soul, a merchant to become —e’en such
As he from whom, at deadest night,
I stole yon clock—and then
To mould affairs of State, as M.L.A.
Again, perchance, thy young ambition soars
To giddier heights; thy dream may be,
As member of a Council, to wax rich
On sundry ‘Jobs ?’ ”
A gentle sigh, and muttered “ God forbid 1”
Broke from the boy, to which,
With loud but reverent voice, the burglar
Said “ Amen.”
“ Well, then,” continued he, “the Church,
The holy Church, a fertile field—
For one reared up like thou—must offer;
Think well on this, my child.
That thou a grand Victorian Presbyter
Mightst even be.”
The burglar ceased. Amid the gloom.
That now betokened swift-approaching night,
The blazing embers threw, as 'twere,
A halo round the boy’s Ingenuous face,
As he replied: “ Oh, I would none
Of these; my soul to better things
Would e’en attain; for I would scorn
To vex mankind with dreary platitudes,
As M.L.A, No, nor will
I ever down to Council ‘Jobs ’ descend;
The Church, of late, alas! is sunk
To state so low, ’twould ill befit
Thy son to stain his father’s name
With taking of its most
Unholy orders. Father, although but still
A child, yet can I see my course
Lie clear before me; I will be,
As thou hast been—a burglar, and
A cracker of the rich man’s crib:
So shall I better serve my country
And my Queen, than by becoming aught
That thou hast spoken of.”
A mighty passion shook the burglar’s frame—
A great o’erpowerlng Joy; the hand
That smoothed, with more than woman’s
Tenderness, the boy’s bright curls, trembled
As he murmured “ Well thou choosest—
Jt was thy angel mother’s dying wish I”
* * *
Robert Francis Burns, Esq., who died so
suddenly last week at Ararat Gaol, appears to have
been one of the good old fashioned kind of vil-
lains—the mainstays of melo-drama. Just previ-
ous to quitting this “ vale of tears,” he confided
to Upjohn (who was Just seeing him off upon his
Journey) that he had “ cooked eight altogether—
five in Victoria, and three in N.8.W.; and now,”
added he, with emotion, “ you’re going to cook
me.” So we should think—there seems every
probability of R. F. Burns being, by' this time
“ done to a turn ”
Robert’s Last Remarks.
Yes, I’ve played the “ heavy vlllln’,”
In the days that now are past,
And I’ve done a deal of killin’ —
But I’ve finished work at last.
Let me call your kind attention
To the fact that I “ did eight;”
Ail their names I need not mention,
As it’s getting rather late.
It was lively, while it lasted
(Very much so, you’ll allow),
But my grand career is blasted.
And I’ll make my final bow;
Bid “ good-bye ” to Robert Francis,
Ere to spirit land he turns,
Where they’ll take good care (the chance is)
That dear Robert Francis “ bums.”
I.
Mr. Briggs has been told that there’s nothing matures cigars so well as keeping them
in tea.
II.
Unluckily, Bridget takes them for a new variety of bohea, and !


The other day, in the Gulf country (Q.),
the case of Regina v. Brown was called before the
ocal J.P. Says his Worship : “ What’s the charge,
constable ?” “ Removing timber from a reserve,
your Worship.” “Very well,” says his Worship,
“isthe prosecutor in attendance.” “Your Wor-
ship, this is a case o r Regina v. Brawn.” “ I know
that, sir I I want to know is Regina present; if
not, go to the door and call him three times.”
At a recent Far Northern election, the two
scrutineers an 1 the returning officer had “ high
old times.” The three consumed three dozen of
ale, two bottles of whisky, and two of brandy.
There were in all 90 voters, who voted before
dinner, so that the thirsty officials had all the
afternoon to play cut-throat euchre. At 4 o’clock,
when the poll was declared, the scrutineers were
sober enough to insist on acknowledging the vote
of thanks which was proposed to the returning
officer.
The Arqus’ correspondent in New Guinea
is a very funny customer. He solemnly announces
that “strict honesty alone will stand our friend
here in New Guinea.” And then he goes on to
remark, “ To-day I have purchased enough sugar-
cane, yams, taro, cassava, bananas, and pumpkins,
to last my whole party for a week—for a tea-
spoonful of salt!” Just so ; strict probity and a
teaspoonful of salt. The soul of honour and a
gross of green spectacles ! Shade of Moses Prim-
rose I
Journalism in Melbourne is, at last, getting
lively. The Daily Telegraph, in a recent leader,
refers to the Age as a “ foul bird of prey,” and,
later on, describes it as “returning to its own
vomit,” There certainly seems a little mixing of
metaphor here, but still no one can deny that
9,uch vigorous kind of writing is just what a man
appreciates at breakfast time—especially with fat
bacon. We expect shortly to hear that the Age is
“squeezing its own boil ” or—Well, this really
ten t an teeihetic paragraph,
The editor of a Southern paper describing
the personal appearance of a gentleman who was
sent to the local gaol for vagrancy, a week or two
ago, says “There was about him that indefinable
something which is a sure proof of the highest re-
finement.” The indefinable something was a
handkerchief, but the editor had never seen one
before.
Not long ago a German traveller on a rail-
road train attempted to eat a lunch while on the
journey. While putting a piece of Bologna
sausage in his mouth the train stopped suddenly,
causing his cheek to be badly cut on the edge of
his knife, which he was using. He sued the com-
pany for damages, but his claim was not sustained
on the ground that it was a breach of etiquette to
eat with a knife. We know at least one team of
boss cricketers who will read the above with in-
terest. Home papers please copy.
Thegaolat Naples county, Idaho (America,
of course), is a hole in the ground ten feet. deep.
The prisoners are dropped in with the significant
warning that the guards have each killed their man,
and have positive orders to put a hole through
every head that appears above the surface. It
would be hard to climb out, as the hole is larger at
the bottom than at the top. When a prisoner is
wanted, a rope is dropped down and he is drawn
up. This is a good idea for the Australian back-
blocks, where gaol arrangements have not yet
attained absolute perfection. Wa were once in a
place in the Par North where prisoners were
chained to a log. One day there happened to be
attached to a fallen trunk of a pretty big cedar 17
men—all “drunks.” There was among them one
ingenious man, and before he had held forth for
half-a-minute the seven;en arose, took up the log
and cinru d it over to the shanty, where they sold
it for drinks.
The editor of a country contemporary,
having nothing else to talk about, talks about
daughters. And a very good subject; though
that depends to some extent on whose daughters
they are. But he advises parents as to how they
should deal with them. Thus “ Teach them that
a calico dress paid for fits better than a silken one
unpaid for.” Yes, and when you are thoroughly
satisfied that they have got a grip of this fact, get
behind the wood-shed, and watch what they will
do when the hawker comes round Then you can
go on to the next lesson—” That a full, healthy
face displays greater lustre than fifty consumptive
beauties.” If it is the face of a cook, it probably
does : but you wi 1, for all that, discover your
daughters doing their level best to loo a like in-
teresting spectres. It pleases them, and it seems
to please the boys. What you think is of as much
consequence as what a wooden weathercock
thinks. Remember this, dear parents, and get rid
of your daughters while you can.
Mrs. and Miss Dodgshun are happy now.
During the last six months, especially, they worked
hard to deserve success, and they have at last got
proof positive that their efforts were in the right
direction. About £300 worth of metallic love was
E resented to them lately at the Melbourne Town
[all. As a Mayoress, Mrs. Dodgshun shone, and
Miss Dodgshun smiled up to the level of the
illumination. The Mayoral Ball woke the
citizens of Melbourne to a gratitude too deep for
words, and too high and wide to be extinguished
by the customary return. So rapidly had guineas
come in that the return ball, profuse as were the
appointments, left the above £300 at the bottom of
the treasurer’s purse. This the citizens 1 urned into
knives, forks, lockets, and chains. Mrs. Dodgshun
got the serviceable i ributes, and Miss Dodgshun the
ornamental ones. The Hon. George Coppin—that
resolute admirer of beef and beauty, and enthusias-
tic lover of dining and dancing—spoke the speech
appertaining thereto, nnd the mother viewed and
her daughter blushed, and two hearts felt proud and
happy.
They are going to open Shakespeare’s
grave in order to see if the MSS. of his plays have
been buried with him. It is well known that the
authenticity of a number of the plays is gravely
doubted, and many don’t believe Shakespeare ever
wrote a line of any of them On the principle of
general scepticism, we don’t believe anything, and
therefore we should not be a bit surprised if, on
the levering open the dead William’s bone-box,
they lighted on the corpse of a deceased draper,
who wore, attached to a faded ribbon round his
neck, the following
“ Poor old dada has gone hung-r
He’s left for the golden snore ;
Soaring with the angels, he
Ne’er will hammer mother more.
Wollongong and Kiama papers, also Evening
Alfred, please coppy.
Everyone in Melbourne found itabsolutely
necessary to unbend at the close of last week
They may say they didn’t, but the theatres on
Saturday'night showed it. Everyone was in some
place or another of amusement, and persisted
in laughing consumedly even when he was no
wanted to. It was all along of that entertalnmen
in the Chalmers Church. M'Eachran and Kenton
had been ladling out stale theology during tin
early days, and, as Professor Pearson wou'fi
elegantly say, the town smelled powerfully of it
It did in truth. The Professor designate of tic
Presbyterian College lifted up his voice, and 11
there is anything more ove whelmingly heart-
rendering than his face it is his voice when he lifts
it. Some people called the Presbytery ladleis
farcical. But these people would distil a joke from
the melancholy R.I.P. It was tragical, funereal,
and that is why when Saturday night came the
theatres were rushed. People wanted an antidote
and thi t Is why an old grey-headed witticism Ira' -
ing on a stick, was enough to throw the lu use ,u •
convulsions M’lhohm and Kentoul will make u
fortune lor the theatres.
A MISSION TO THE HEATHEN!
Arrival in Wooiloomooloo of the Reverend Mr. Mqxworrhinhhwrhoolingo, of Borrhioboola Gha, who finds before him a promising Held of usefulness.


XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
IT WILL give you a g-ood idea of what XX
is going to be worn during the en-
T o " '-'A U UUllllff ll
suing Spring and Summer
look in our Northern and
SOUTHERN WINDOWS
TO-DAY.
CHARMING NOVELTIES AND
SPLENDID VALUE THERE
DISPLAYED
Iu (Ladies ’ & Children’s)
Ju A C Bo
Dh^SSES
EM BROIDERIES
RIBBONS
PARASOLS
GLOVES
and
NECK GARNITURES.
SEE FOR YOURSELVES IN
HORDERN’S WINDOWS.
311, Pitt-street.
XX
XX Everything you can name
XX imported direct by
XX HORDERN BROTHERS.
yw y if aii + , 211 > Pitt-street.
XX N.B-A1I country orders well attended
XX to.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
H
ORDERN BROTHERS
211, Pitt-street,
In our
NEW TAILORING DEPARTMENT
we can
DEFY COMPETITION,
because we serve our customers
BETTER AND CHEAPER
than elsewhere.
OUR FIFTY SHILLING SUITS
and our
THIRTEEN SHILLING TROUSERS
to order,
ARE BEYOND COMPARE
the
VERY BEST IN SYDNEY,
and we
CHALLENGE COMPARISON
They are
WELL CUT
and
THEY ARE WELL MADE,
and are
SOAKED TWENTY-FOUR HOURS
to ’
GUARANTEE AGAINST
SHRINKAGE.
They are
THE NEWEST PATTERNS
and
WONDRRFULLY CHEAP.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
PITT-STREET.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
NX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
NOW THAT THE WET WEATHER
is all gone.
Ladies are respectfully invited
to call in and see our new
SPRING and SUMMER GOODS
HORDERN BROTHERS.
311, Pitt-street.
£ ISMiSSSliiSilggi
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
NEW GUINEA.
We have been so much interested in Annit’s
letters from New Guinea that we thought
we might as well illustrate a few paragraphs.
Port Moresby, July 14.
was detained at Port Moresby until to-day, when
the Ellengo wan coming in, f received the things
that the Ilev. Mr. Chalmers had been good
enough to bring from Cooktown.
After the arduous climb through grass breast-
high, I was glad enough to stretch my weary
body under the shade of a huge scrub tree,
and' to go to sleep minux supper, blanket, or
anything tending to make things comfortable.
Still I felt happy-porfcctly happy and con-
tented—fori was in New Guinea, the natural-
ist’s paradise. I dropped off instanter, and
dreamt of paradise birds with plumage of rain-
bow hues and tails ten yards long.
1 started over broken ridges with rugged hills on
each side for three miles, country improving at
each step. Splendid alluvial soil, wonderfully
fertile, covered with a dense growth of good
grasses, not at all rank, but just the sort that
would make an Australian country-hunters
heart leap with joy.
Then breakfast, and such a breakfast! The natives
brought ’u a kangaroo, and borrowed our
buckets (o cook it.
Savages I I never saw such savages, nor anyone
else. Lot Australians disabuse their minds
once for all of such ideas. These Papuans are
no more savages than we are. Barbarians they
are, no doubt, but even as barbarians they
compare very favourably with us and our
vaunted civilization. Their gardens show an
amount of thought and well-directed labour
and enterprise of which savages would be
utterly incapable. Thei .• houses are well built,
comfortable, and quite up to the standard re-
quired by the climate. They are cleanly in
their habits, washing everything before they
cook it, and themselves whenever they get an
opportunity.
Bobbertoom Is situated on a running 1 creek 18
miles from Port Moresby. It consists of II
houses built several feet off the ground, and
seven tree houses called “ Dobo,” some 60ft. or
70ft. up in the air, built among the boughs of
lofty scrub trees. These latter serve as refuges
when the village is attacked by neighbouring
tribes. The whole population rush up the
ladders pell-mell, drawing the last 15ft. length
up after them. These huts are victualled, and
two tons wfjjrht of stones we stored in
each. Woe to the enemy that comes within
reach of these missiles! Flung with unerring
aim, a cracked skull or broken limb would be
the result of any foolhardy attempt to display
personal valour. When I first behold these
‘‘ eeries,” I said, “ What an easy thing it would
bo to cut those trees down, and let the whole
garrison down lumpus.” When I gathered
courage enough to race the 70ft. ladder, and
stood inside the tree fortress, I saw at a glance
that cutting down the tree would be extra warm
work, as several heavy stones were kept in re-
serve spociallv as a compliment for anyone at-
tempting the feat. A trap-door is made in the
bottom of the tree-hut which commands the
ground round the butt of the tree, and no men
could cut it down unless covered by iron
shields.
The chief of Narlwooma, a village on the Astro-
labe, was waiting here for mo, and came in
ahout 4 pm. from a kangaroo hunt. How shall
I describe him ? He is a burly, jovial, sable old
warrior, and were it not for his colour, I should
not hesitate to say he was an Irishman.
The women particularly are very well developed.
Their legs and thighs aro immense, and it is
owing entirely to their having to carry heavy
weights from their very childhood that this is
the case. Of course 1 am not going into heroics
about them. Every womah seems to have a
young piggy as a pet.
The first thing I saw on entering Kobbertoom was
—a cat.
The Coijarigave us a specimen offtheir music while
staying with them here. It was simply a
monotonous chant accompanied by beat of
many drums, ear-splitting certainly, butnotat
all pleasant or musical, and very conducive to
a headache. I was very glad when it was all
over, as I wanted to write and couldn’t.
The true Missionary is he who Introduces material
comforts.
Mr. Woods, says that “but for British
protection, the colonies would be put to enormous
expense to defend their shores.” He errs. What
Australia wants at present is not to harm her
extremities protected from privateers, but
to have her body secured from the attacks
of political brakes and parllamentry break-
downs In the Victorian Assembly the M‘Coll
said “ He would fight the battle of irriga-
tion for the plains and the mallee so long as
JGod gave him breath.” We know the “M'Coll” and
we know the “ Mallee,” and, next to the “origin
of evil,” we have always been puzzled to cypher
out what special end was sought to be attained in
creating either,
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“J.L.K.”: He may stand, dear sir, but he
won’t sit.. . “J. H. Calvert”: Very welcome—
“Eva”: If you send a short specimen, we’ll give
a definite reply “Hopeful”: Dr. Harman-Tar-
rant “ W.E.L.” (Manly): Not adapted for publi-
cation In it’s present shape. We entertain decided
views on the subject, which we will ventilate
shortly “Vic.” (Sandhurst): Should send name
and address. More “ pars ” will bo welcome...“ The
Only Highland Officer Present”: We find that the
letter sent by you consists of two sides of MS. only,
numbered “ 1 ” and “3.” There appears therefore
to be one slip missing. Will you kindly re-write
the letter taking care to give the names plainly?... ■
“F.P.” (Concord): Style not suitable...." Scotty ”:
A little jolty in places; will try and polish for our
columns “Navvie”: Try local paper ...“Mid-
land ” : Fair, but crowded out by better—
“ R.J.M.”; Scarcely.... “Johnny ”; No, thank you.
“T.W.W.”; Good idea: bad rhyme —“Con-
stant Reader”: We have no doubt it is true “the
cancert was a great success,” but send us some-
thing funnier, even if not true—“H.L.D.”: Not
good enough for payment “T.F.H.”: Thanirs;
got another account, also “J.W.D.”: No; but
we believe the House of Lords has thrown out the
Princets of Wales’ fad—the Anti-Pigeon-shooting
Bill—which, by the way, extended to pigeons an
amount of tender consideration by no means
vouchsafed to a lot of human flesh and blood in
Egypt “ H.F.S.” :*Scarcely up to the mark—
“ Bryan P. M’Mahon”: Don’t let your friend’s re-
marks strike you cold, and don’t contradict him.
Of course we get some of our information from
other papers ; why shouldn’t we ? Where else
does he think we get it ? Your friend hasn’t made
a brilliant discovery. We got our account of the
Slade-Mitchell affair out of other papers because
wo didn't see it ourselves. We would have asked
Slade and Mitchell to come and fight in our office,
so we could see them, if we’d thought they would
come. Probably they wouldn't. Yes, Bryan, we
copied that account, scoundrels that we are. We
have copied other things, too, about the Czar of
Russia, and Mrs. Langtry, and Peter Campbell on
the Mucki, because the reporters we pay specially
to watch these persons all got either drunk or con-
verted. If we wrote an account of the Creation or
the Crucifixion, we should probably be base enough
to copy it from somewher?. But there's one thing
we didn’t copy. When genteel festivities oc-
curred at Clontarf on Boxing Day, 1880, we
wrote the account ourselves. There was
no paper to copy that sort of article from
“ A.T.L.” (Hobart): At a raffle the other evening
the following dispute arose. There were 13 prizes
(pictures). The highest of course took first prize;
but there being three totals of 41 each, the owners
of the throws objected to throw off lor second
prize alone, but asserted a right to 2nd. 3rd, 4th,
prizes to he divided among them, arguing that the
next highest being only 40 each one who had
thrown 41 had a prior chance to him. Then, there
being five 39 throws, they objected to only throw
off for one picture, but wanted number 5, 6, 7, 8, 9
prizes to be divided amongst them, claiming like
the number 41 throwers that each one had a better
claim to a prize than the owners of 38 totals.
Which way is correct?—Answer: Supposing there
to have been a higher number than 4l (which you
do not state) that higher throw of course took first
prize. The three 41’s would then throw off for 2nd,
3rd, and 4th prizes; the thrower of 40 would take
5th prize, and the five 39’s throw off for 6th, 7th,
8th, and 9(h.
We do not undertake to return rejected
communications. Writei s should keep copies.
If you go down the passage near Paling’s,
and enter an impossible-looking doorway on the
left, you will find yourself in a surprising place—a
French restaurant. Our experience of restaurants
in Sydney is almost as largo as the profits the pro-
prietors make by d> nylng customers table-napkins,
and more than one-eighth of a waiter. Ordi-
narily, the customers fill themselves up on “ the
joint” with potatoes which have, to all appear-
ance, been fighting, as they invariably have blue-
black eyes and contusions. And, when gorged
with this sort of thing, the customers converse:
“ Wotdld thatlastmobof weaners fetch ?” ‘‘Them
bullocks averaged 1000 lb., dressed—they did.”
•• Cut it into twenty live-foot allotments arid made
six thou.” “I hit im in the hye, and then I”—That’s
about a sample of the conversation. But at the
little French restaurant they put you on a diet of
delicate little plots, wi'h a pint of vin ordinaire, so
skilfully selected that you fancy it is Bordeaux.
It isn’t, though. It is something much bettor
than any Bordeaux one can now-a-days get with a
two-franc dinner at the Palais Royal, it is Aus-
tralian wine—pure. Which, since the phylloxera
thrust itself into fashion in the French vineyards,
cheap wine in Francois not. And the consequence
is that, instead of the grosser convolutions in the
brain being stirred up, the more delicate ones are
stimulated. The first time we ever heard a literary
discussion at a public table in Sydney was the
other day—the first time wo took tea at the little
French restaurant. Now, this is a chance no man
should miss. An opportunity for every man who
knows something to show how little it is, and for
every man who knows nothing to display what a
lot that Is, when spoken loud and properly spread
out.
“Thefactis,” said Mr. Bright, whengivinga
forecast of the future at the late Birmingham
festival, “ neither emperors nor kings nor states-
men nor public press will be able to bring nations
into war when these nations are united in their
interest by perfect freedom of industry between
them.” Alas ! This is mild compared with the
prognostications of the philosophers who attended
lie opening of the Glass Palace in ’51, and nations
have been fighting ever since. . .The cable tells us
that “at a secret meeting the Fenians decided to
rescue O Donnell, who assassinated Carey.” Ac-
cording to Tallyrand, “ That which is known to
two men is no longer] a secret.” Nice sort of
secret meeting, when the speeches are heard at the
other end of the earth within 24 hours.
King Mtesa is dead. He was the African
monarch, the splendour of whose court so much
astonished the travellers, Speke and Grant, when
they visited him twenty years ago. For a long
time their report of this potentate’s polish and
good-breeding was received in Europe with hesita-
tion and incredulity. “ How could civilization,”
people observed. “ find its way into the middle of
the dark continent and miss all the coast districts ?”
Up to the day of his death the secret was jealously
guarded. It has leaked out at last. Thirty years
ago a poor Portuguese missionary was found wan-
dering in Mtesa’s country. He was dragged before
the King, expecting a cruel death. Observing that
the monarch’s garments were sewn with cocoa-
nut fibre, manufactured into a sort of primitive
wax-end, the poor priest put his hand into his
pocket, pulled out live reels of Brook’s six-cord
sewing cotton, No. 24, and presented them to the
King. This saved his life, procured him the office
of chief confessor to the Harem, and introduced
civilization and Christianity into Central Africa.
Don’t physic, for it weakens and destroys,
but use Hop Bitters, that builds up! Bead.
At the Opera House, “ Haroun A1 Raschid ’ ’
—after a successful run—made way for “ Sam’l O’
Posen. Taking the latter piece as a whole, it
cannot be said to possess In an equal degree the
mirth-provoking qualities of its predecessor. It
certainly gives scope to Mr. Polk to exhibit a good
deal of laughable versatility, but the comedy itself
does not supply so many absurd situations as
“ Haroun A1 Raschid did. Nor does the dia-
logue possess the same crispness—provoke the
same fun. Mr. Morton (Mr. Vernon), a
wealthy jeweller, has one daughter and
two nephews. The latter are cousins, and not
brothers, and are both in his employ. Jack Fullon
(W. Forbes) and Frank Steele (Mr. Boothman) are
the young men. Jack is promised a share in the
business-having already secured the whole of the
young lady s (Miss Adele) heart. Ho appears to be
a sound youth enough at bottom, and as yet has
got no further in vice than rum and milk and
“ seven up.” But his cousin. Prank Steele, is a real
caution. Pollio, in “ Norma,” was agentleman to
him. He determines to cheat Jack out of pro-
spects and flanc6e. In aiming at this end he has to
lie, steal, and murder. All these he does with no
apparent qualms, which shows that he is no
ordinary ruffian, but a real out-and-outer. It was
R al , nf 0 '} l°-A ea r * he stories he told his kind uncle
But all his twistings and turnings are discovered
and exposed by Sam 1 O’Posen (Mr. Polk.) Sam
begins life as a Jew pedlar, but it was impossible
ft keep down a lad of his parts. Jack gets him a
s ’ where he quietly makes his
way to the front, saves money, discovers Steele’s
treachery, wins a wife, makes himself pleasant to
some and extremely uncomfortable to others
Sam interested us from the beginning, so we
watched his career with eagerness. Wo cannot
now suggest to Mr Polk how he could improve
upon it. Rebecca (Mrs. Polk) was his flame, and it
is but fair to her to say that she did not throw too
difficulties in the way of their union, and
that Samuel might have gene a deal farther and
fared ever so much worse. The various characters
we have not time to particularise. They were all
next time We may speak at great e riength
Last Wednesday, the 26th. an interesting
event occurred at Glebe Point, the affair being the
marriage of Miss Tilson, an accomplished and
eharramg !ady of that suburb, to Mr. R. A. Lewis
2! In ? e ®' The marriage was celebrated at
St. Andrew s Cathedral, and the party—close upon
a i’uudrcd—drove to Botany, where a sumptuous
wedding breakfast awaited attention. The bride
looked charming in an ivory satin trimmed with
broche, and a rich wreath of orange-blossom and
cjematis; the whole being embellished with a
rich set of diamonds, presented by the bride-
S 1 ; 00 ™- The bridesmaids, six in number (Misses
Charlotte and Eileen, sisters of the bride, the
Misses Horne, Miss Daisy Lloyd, of Burwood, and
Miss Ine York, of Petersham) were attired in sky-
blue cashmere, satin trimmings to match, and
cream lace. Each held an eleg*ant bouquet, and
wore a gold locket, presented by the bridegroom
as a souvenir of the occasion. The mother of the
bride looked very attractive in a rich brown silk
dress, with broche trimmings to match. A lady
from Paddington wore a rich silk grenadine, a
beautiful cream bonnet adding to the effect A
Burwood lady was very fashionably attired in an
ivory Japanese cloth, trimmed with myrtle broche
There were several other handsome dresses. The
honeymoon was spent at Katoomba. A genuine
reception awaits the bride and bridegroom at Glen
Innes.
His Holiness the Pope has had a bit of a
jar, lately. A tax-form was sent to him, which
read in this irreverent style: “ To citizen Joachim
Pecci, by trade or profession Pope, conducting
business at the Vatican Palace, Rome.” There
was a time when the inditer of such a document as
this would be burnt in the public square. But not
now; perhaps firewood, or faith, has got scarce
since then. Conducting business! Well, it must
been soinewhat, soothing to the feelings of
the Holy Father to reflect that the business is a
good one.


FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
At Wagga, one Middleton was charged with
being of unsound mind. “Astronomy” was his
mania. The magistrate said it was “ drink,” and
advised him to knock off. When whisky was his
tipple, he ran on stars: on comets, when rum was
the disturbing element. Each liquor, except one,
appeared to suggest a different class of heavenly
body. Beer brought up visions of planets, shandy-
gaff nebula;, and schnapps rainbows. It was when
he drank water that he saw them all at once. Then
he was dangerous. The Melbourne Shops’ Com-
mission found a number of children employed in a
jute factory. One girl, under ten years old, rises
at 5 a.m, to be at work at 7 o’clock and knocks off
at 5p.m ; the jute dust gets in her throat; thefore-
woman directs the infants with a whistle and a j
strap. ..Major Barker, of the Harmy, when he j
recently arrived in Dunedin (N.Z.) was met by a
torch-light procession. “ Thank you, dear brother
and sister,” he cried. “ Thanks be blowed,” cried
a voice; “we’ve only brought the lights to see
where to throw the eggs.” And that was the joke
of it, or, as the Major found out, the yolk of it....
Writing on poultry, a man, who appears to know
what ho is talking about, observes;—“Kill off the
old fowls before moulting begins, and have pullets
to replace them with. A hen more than two years
old seldom pays for keep.” This should bo pasted
on the door-knobs of every hash-house in Sydney.
.. A child of six, while gathering flowers at Mount
Gambier, S.A., toddled over a 100-foot precipice
into the valley lake below.. .A Leichhardt Aider-
man is under the impression that the Mayor is
labouring under a “ dilemma.” Alderman evi-
dently labours under a “dllusion.”—Melbourne
banks are of opinion that it would greatly facili-
tate their business if two “ signature” recording
books were kept. One book would show the
depositor’s signature when perfectly compos
mentis, the other when ho had snakes-in-his-boots
after being knocked-out by James Hennessy— A
section of the N. Q. press is “ going bung.” The
Port Denison Times is for sale, and the Palmer
River editor tells his constituents that if they don’t
support him he’ll “shut up shop.” More
Chinese have, there is every reason to believe,
been eaten by the Russell River (N.Q.) niggers.
....The Rev. G. Lund, the Anglican clergy-
| man charged with an unmentionable offence
at Narandera, will be tried at Sydney
One of the newly-appointed J.P.’s out West was
fined, the other day, 10s. and costs for furious
driving. It was his first appearance in court since
ho got the brand True, He was worth £350,000.
but was too mean to pay probate duty. So he
transferred his estate to his son, taking from him
a power of attorney, authorising himself—the
father—to receive the rents during his own life-
time. The son got married, and died, leaving a
widow and children. All the property goes to
them, and the old man has no longer any right to
the rents, his son from whom he got the authority
being dead. So this new Lear may possibly
have to spend his time in the Soup Kitchen.
* * *
It is suggested to recruit the army by en-
listing waifs of 14 for 20 or 35 years, and training
them till they are fit to enter the ranks ...In
Cracow, the police remove tradesmen’s signs if the
names written in Russian characters are smaller
than those in Polish A case was tried in New
York, lately, wherein a man sued a telephone com-
pany for restraining him from sending such mes-
sages as he pleased through the telephone, having
paid for the use of it. The defence set up by the
company was that this man used to come to the
office and curse through the instrument for hours
everyday. Company Avon... At a recent Chinese
Civil service examination, several hired substitutes
were detected. These literary culpilts were
marched off to gaol, Avhere they Avere made to
wear the cangue for a fortnight. The hired
substitute dodge has been occasionally worked
in New South Wales Civil sendee exams....
After a careful investigation of the manufacture
of cigarettes, the New York “faculty” finds: —
“ The mildest cigarettes are benevolently made
from fine-cut tobacco, out of which the injurious
strength has been already chewed by gentlemen of
leisure.”....The Germans built a man-of-war, the
“Ting Yuen,” or “Everlasting Peace,” for the
Chinese, and armed it with four monster Krupps.
Things were somewhat unsettled when one gun
was fired. It broke all the glass, shifted the man
at the wheel, and rose the coal out of the bunkers.
But it was when the order was given to fire all the
guns at once that the crew could be observed
crawling through the port-holes, dropping from the
yard-arms, and taking to the water. The turrets
were cleared of men, and one prisoner was pro-
mised his liberty for pulling the strings firing the
pieces together. He was never found again, and
the vessel has been re-christened the “ Everlasting
Pieces.”
There are more cures made with Hop
Bitters than all other medicines. Sec flags and all.
Nothing could more potently illustrate
the glorious disunion of so-called Christian religion
than the following from a Noav Zealand correspon-
dent of a metropolitan journal:—“ Very vigorous
measures are in active preparation in Victoria and
Noav Zealand for the amalgamation of all the sects
or denominations of Methodists into one church,
order, and ecclesiastical body. There is the
original body established by the Wesleys; the first
separated body is the Primitive Methodist, of
about 70 years’ standing, the Bible Christiana
50 years, and the United Free Methodist
body Avho took their rise in 1850, after the
agitation by Messrs. Everet, Dunn, and Grif-
fith, and soon after were joined by an older
party, then known as the Association.” But
the beautiful irony of the thing lies in his
subsequent comment: “Probably the chief diffi-
culty in the way of this contemplated amalgam—a
consummation devoutly to be Avished—is in the
relations of ministers and Avidowsto the Superanu-
ation Fund of the Mother Church.” Money—
“filthy lucre” as they contemptuously call it—is
you see, at the bottom of it all, Not any diver-
sity as to faith or the cardinal virtues separ-
ates them, Not a bit of it. It is merely who
shall rake in the pool. The correspondent from
whom we quote finally satirizes with a naivete
that is phenomenal, thus:— ,r Tct hope, love, and
prayer, with a supreme desire to honour the Lord
by the presentation of a grander front to a hostile
world, and by greater economy of church work
and sacred money to his scrvice—these may bring
success.” You see, the trail of the serpent shows
up again—money—but this time it is “ sacred
money.” Well, it s the first time we ever heard of
any of the churches looking on money as sacred,
no matter whom it belonged to; unless, of course,
as sacred to their own especial pockets. After all,
it’s pretty plain that neither “love, hope, nor
prayer” have, in these degenerate days, much
show in the great bulk of religious diplomacy. It’s
just a simple cash transaction. Money “bosses ”
the whole crowd, from the little weather-board
“ ranting ” chapel to the colossal gothic cathedral
The money-changers are m the Temple, arrayed
in the robes of the priests.
Burnt Out!


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall he glad to have this index posted up by
secreta/ries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general .1
RACING INDEX.
In consequence of the length to which the
Index to Races to come, Entries. Weights and For-
feits extends, we are forced to devise means for
economising space. Readers will find the column
regularly headed with a list of fixtures to
be attended to within the month; which will be
followed by names and dates of Race-meetings to
be held in the more distant future.
THE MONTH’S FIXTURES.
Sydney Turf Club Races October 6.
Melbourne Hunt Club Races October 6.
Wollongong’ Entries for Handicap October 6.
Musclobrook Races Octobers.
V.A.T.C. Races October Id, 20.
Wollongong and Rerrima Entries October 10.
Sydney T.C. Annlversay Handicap and
Tattersall's Cup close October 18.
Coolah Handicap close October 19.
Narrandera close October 19.
Ber rina Goner 1 Entry October 2d.
Wollongong T.C. Annual October 24. 2o.
Hay NTV.R.C October 25,26.
Rerrima District Races October 30. 31.
Tamworth Handicaps close November 1.
Victoria R.C. Spring November 3, 6,8.10.
Victoria Trotting (Hub Races November 7.
Coolah General Entry November 8.
Wllliamstown R C. (V.) November 9.
Clarence River.I.C. (Amateur) November#.
Coolah (Annual) November 9.
Canterbury (N.Z.) J.C November 6,7,8.
FUTURE RACES.
Auckland (N.Z.) R.C. Spring November 10
Mun umbidgee T.C November 21, 22, 28.
Bendigo J.C. (V.) November 28, 29.
Narandera J.C November 29, 30.
Tamworth R.C. (Summer) December 4, 6.
Warialda J.C December 12, 13.
Liverpool J.C.. December 22.
Victoria Amateur T.C December 26.
Pleasnt Creek (V.) December 26.
Tattersall’s (Annual) January 1.1884.
Sydney T.C January 26.
Tasmanian R.C. (Summer) February 13, 14,16.
Wanganui (N.Z.) J.C. Autumn. March 6, 7.
Hawkesbury R.C (Autumn) Aprils, 5.
AQUATICS
New South Wales Association Regatta ..October 6.
Sydney Amateur Canvas Dingy Club 1st Class
Race October 13.
Double Bay Regatta October 27.
Balmain Regatta November #.
Champagne Cup November 17.
All Comers Regatta December
National Regatta January 26, 1884.
ATHLETICS.
Wallsend Athletic Club Meeting November 9.
Bathurst Sheffield Handicap November 9.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ Enquirer Chandos and Vespasian were
both imported by the late Hon. B. K. Cox. The
former died ; the latter is still at M.ilgoa stud
farm....“ Flying Buck”: Noah Beal trained Zoe
for the first Champion Race at Melbourne,
apd Ashworth rode her—“Bar One”: All the
“books” you name are good forwhatever they lay
you “ H.B.K.”: The Y.R.C. Derby looks very
open this year, although the public feeling goes
for two or three great performers ...“Erin’ :
There have been at least two horses of the name.
....“ W.P.” (Hawkesbury): 1. As far as we remem-
ber, Dr. Bowker has called two horses Sir Solomon.
2. Wo think Mr A. Loder has owned a couple of
Tamworths-a chestnut and a brown— “Old
Tatts”: The late Mr. W. J. O’Brien gave the first
Tattersall’s Cup, run for on Rand wick—probably
you mean that one—won by O’Meara—“ J.D.’ :
(Certainly 1 Mr. M'Gregor ovv ned Union Jack, and
took him to Wagga for the Champion Race, won
by Mormon. Passing through Forbes, Mr.
M'Grogor engaged an armed body-guard to protect
the horses from bushrangers on their way thence
to Wagga, and at least one of the volunteers so
engaged has his home in Sydney for some time
past. That Champion Race was in 1864.
Haring Law and Custom.
After every race meeting, there invariably assail
the sporting scribe of each Sydney paper, a phalanx
of querists, who have got into a fog over sweeps
made up on the course or elsewhere, and want to
know whether the money should be paid to 4 first
past the post,” or to the receiver of the prize; and
yet the question has been answered times without
number, that sweeps must be paid in the same
proportions and to the same horses as the stakes.
This ruling has conic to be received nem. con. (and
a very proper one it is), as it saves no end of dis-
putes and difficulties between stakeholder and
the Innumerable quid nuncs, who are about on
racecourses just as surely as “ bush lawyers on
the Back-Blocks. But, “and a very big ‘but,
too," as the Naval Chaplain said the other night in
his sermon at Redfern, the ruling, good ; hough it
be, is founded on custom, as regards sweeps, which
has been dovetailed into or welded on a law relat-
ing to bets. As a matter of fact, there have
never been any law or rules of the course or of
the ring, which have taken cognizance of “sweeps,
or what are now called “ consultations,” both
these means of gambling being no doubt looked
upon as quite illegitimate, atid utterly ultra vires
wlien race clubs and their officials are legislating
for the turf. But as these public vehicles of profit
and 1< ss are to all Intents and purposes a species of
wagering, it is only right in equity as in common
sense t hat they should be amenable to the same
discipline (if any) as governs the layer and taker
of odds when disputed points arise. The rule under
which sweeps have been brought by newspaper
scribes and others to whom such questions have
been submitted, is: “ The Interests of the bets are
inseparable from the interests of the stakes, except,
&c, here following certain cases of malpractice,
in which the first past the post wins, though dis-
qualified, but with which we have, at present,
nothing to do; and in consequence of this being
considered a very fair regulation it has been
unanimously admitted as applicable to sweeps
equally with bets. A case occurred the other day—
not in connection with a horse race, however—
which causes us to bring forward this subject, as
one but little understood among laymen, and well
worth ventilation, , . ,
On the pigeon match lately shot at wagga
Wagga, a sweep was made up and drawn at a
well-known hostelry in Sydney, and prizes were
agreed upon for first, second, and third. After a
number of ties in the match had been reduced, at
about the sixteenth round, to three, the trio then
loft in agreed to divide the prize money, amount-
ing to £100 each, but determined to shoot off to
decide wagers. This arrangement was carried
out, the shooter who was actually first, and on
whom, of course, wagers had to be paid, being Mr.
Harding; and the drawer of his name in the sweep
already mentioned claimed first money. But the
drawers of second and third demurred to this,
claiming that the sweep should be divided in the
same proportion as the stakes had been. A good
deal of haggling took place over the matter,
neither party being inclined to give in for some
time. But eventually the sweep was paid over to
the first, second, and third i their relative pro
portions as agreed upon, just as if it had been a
wager which the shooters were especially shooting
off to decide. Undoubtedly this was the proper
settlement of Go dispute ; and the stakeholder
was perfectly right to hand the money in the way
he did, instead of letting it go with the stakes,
which the bets did not, oa that particular occa-
sion, by a epecial provision.
In looking at this case, and any other similar
one which may arise, the first thing to consider is
that there is, really, no rule or law in existence for
the government of sweeps, but that these institu-
tions are held to be ruled, when possible, by the
laws of betting. Next, let it be remembered, that,
when three shooters tied, they shot off, distinctly
for wagers ; wherefore, as the only rules known to
regulate sweeps are those of betting, the sweeps
on the piveon match were bound to follow the
bets, when these latter were expressly made inde-
pendent of the stakes. No one can reasonably
suppose that, if any one of those three shooters
had happened to be Interested in a sweep, as well
as a wager, he would not suppose he was
agreeing to shoot off for both at the
same time; and it is worse than absurd
to argue that the tying trio, who shot off,
were not deciding all other people’s wagers
as well as their own. The finale of the Wagga
pigeon match may, and no doubt will, very often,
be reproduced elsewhere; and, although less likely,
the same thing may occur in coursing as well as
shooting. So, It appears just worth while opening
the subject, in order that if there be any sceptics,
who think the other side worth taking up, they
can avail themselves of the opportunity. Moreover,
it may be worth while saying, under the circum-
stances, that people joining in these private
sweeps will do well to be careful in choosing a
stakeholder who not only is posted up in sporting
rules so far as “simples” are concerned, but is
also possessed of sufficient firmness to act up to
them properly, in spite of pressure from without.
if we may judge from late events connected with
the largely supported consultation mania, there is
likely to be, within a lew months, if not weeks,
considerable falling off in the number of adver-
tisers searching for “ gulls;” and when this
elimination does take place, as sooner or
later it must, one may well debate the desirability
of legislation in the chief turf bureaux for the
proper conduct of such consultations and sweeps
as may have proprietors who think it worth while
to carry them on, without recourse to thieving as
a component part of their system. By this means,
the very select few consultations that have
already gained the confidence of their constituents
will be ridded of large and unscrupulous competi-
tion, while any others wishing to come In and work
the oracle bond fide, will find plenty of speculators
ready to Invest with them. There’s not the
slightest danger of any of those “all prizes-no-
blanks” professors, who have already been bowled
out, bidding any more for support. The name
“consultation” stinks in the nostrils of the most
unwary when associated with unknown names ;
and if hotel-keepers would keep their characters
lor respectability at par, they will refuse all con-
nection with these quasi “ bankers,” who receive
fixed deposits, and are not satisfied with drawing
t- n per cent, instead of giving five to their cus-
tomer for the use of his money.
There can be no more bare-faced robberies in the
world than what have been perpetrated by consul-
tation promoters in various places; and if those
sportsmen who hold foremost places in the conduct
of racing do not devise some means for getting rid
of such blots on the escutcheon, and filling their
places with legitimate speculators, we may fairly
expect more troublous times than the Australian
turf and turfites have yet seen, which, not to put
too fine a point upon it, is unnecessary.
The Budget.
[BY NEW WARRIOR.]
The work to be done this week by horse owners
and trainers consists of only few fixtures, and
many of those unimportant; but we commence
our “budget” with the usual reminder, so that our
friends may miss nothing necessary for them to
attend to. On this Saturday, the 6th, the Sydney
turf Club bring off their races at Bandwlck —the
last fixture on the metropolitan course for a long
time, and also on the6th the Melbourne Hunt Club
have a day at Flemington. The entries for the
Wollongong Handicap close on the 6th, and we
recommend Intending nominators to find out from
the advertisement what is the latest hour for
receipt of entries by the secretary, as they will be
vitiated by ever so small a mistake. Musclebrook
races— or rather the second day of them —are post-
poned till Monday, the 8th, giving time for horses
and men to go and return from Narrabri, where
racing is on at the time of this publication.
The Victorian Amateur Turf Club will occupy
the two following Saturdays—13th and 30th
—with their fine programme, at Caulfield; and the
general entry day for Wollongong and Berrima is
Tuesday, the 16th—which is far enough for us to
dive into the future with our warnings in the
present issue.
As there will be no more racing here till Christ-
mas time, and. after this issue, no nags of note left
working at Bandwlck, the “tout’s” occupation
may be considered gone from this out, and we
must try to keep our readers posted up in the do-
ings of favourites on the Victorian training
grounds.
Dally our representatives who are to do battle
for us at the coming meetings of Caulfield and
Flemington are taking flight for the sister colony,
and Mr. de Mestre’s contingent left in two
lots on Saturday and Monday—of course, overland
—and ere this appears I hope one and all will have
arrived at their Victorian quarters safely. The
dangerous “ black and all black ” stable has a
string of nine horses to do the honours, consisting
of N ivigator, Nicholas, Alde-de-Camp, Ulga, Ike,
Copra, Carmen, Coir (Navigator's half-brother), and
the Zephyr colt. Should Aide-de-Camp go on well,
there are more unlikely things than that the Mel-
bourne Cup may find its way to Terrara.
Mr. Scarr’s handicaps for the Sydney Turf Club
meeting on this Saturday will be found in another
column, and nothing looks bettor on paper than
War Eagle, who should score a win in the Hurdles.
Bayard and Blue and White take my fancy most in
the Favorite Plate, and Soldier Boy will take a deal
of beating in the Corinthian Cup. There's a
lengthy list to pick from in the Farewell Handi-
cap, but Stockade and Albury must he dangerous;
and if Gloucester be in the humour, 7.4 ought not
to trouble him, and he will be hard to shake off
when the final calf is made.
The lawsuit in which Mr. Joseph Thompson, the
Victorian bookmaker, was plaintiff, and Mr.
Blackier, and others representing the Adelaide
Baolng Club, defendants, has resulted in an easy
win for the former. The case arose out of the
A.B.C. charging a betting fee to bookmakers, and
Mr. Thompson applied for an injunction to restrain
the defendants from charging admission to the
grounds w hich they lease and use as a racecourse;
e also claimed £5000 for illegal arrest and
assault. The court declared the lease bad, and
awarded the plaintiff 40s. da ages, calling on de-
fendants to pay all costs in connection with the
case since its commencement. Unless a new Act
is passed, and the lease legalised, the defendants
will become heavy sufferers, having, I am in-
formed, expended a large amount of money, ex-
tending into thousands, on the racecourse and
surroundings. The club, I suppose, will also have
to refund any fees they may have charged book-
makers as licenses.
To set all doubts at rest I may say that the well-
known light-weight, Donald Nicholson, has been
engaged to steer First Demon in the Melbourne
Cup.
One of the best cross-countiy horses Australians
have seen has broken down. I refer to the well-
known Panic horse, Simpleton, and only those who
have seen the gallant grey carrying big lumps of
weight to victory understand what a Trojau he was
at his business.
The name of Waterloo has been struck out of
the Caulfield and Melbourne Cups.
The Betting Market has undergone one or two
notable changes during the week, and although it
was given out that Yately had been pm chased
simply lor the jumping business, the stable have
backed him to win a hatful of money in the Caul-
field Cup, and he stands but a very decided first
favourite. I learn from a reliable source that he
has been astonishing the “touts” in the sister
colony by his gallops as much as he did those who
had the misfortune to see him finish his prepara-
tion at Randwick for the Hawkesbury Handicap,
in which he cut such a sorry figure.
Mr. J. Abrahams’ last purchase, Gladiator, has
been placed in Joe Cook's hands, and he will be
put through his preparation at Clarendon.
Though the arrival of Thursday is usually the
signal for touts to muster well at Randwick to
watch the doings of the candidates in work, they
didn’t show up in great force on that day last
week : but as a matter of fact, those who stayed
away lost nothing by doing so. All the stables had
their strings on the ground before or after break-
fast, but the work done was steady, and gave no
line ; and as Saturday morning was rough enough
to keep any animals but real water-dogs at home,
I have no work to tell of till Monday morning,
when I found myself within the A.J.C precincts
before 5.30-quite early enough, too, for either
horses or men on such a cold morning.
Operations were commenced long before six
o’clock, Plgott being the early bird, sending
Master Avenel, who kicks as well as ever, and
Armidale a long strong gallop extending over two
and a half miles. They were followed by Byron
alone, but he was merely t eated to a long canter.
Sardonyx by himself strode over two miles at a
brisk pace, and Albury, with Kingsdale for a com-
panion, put in twice round steadily. A long slow
gallop was wound up with a fast spin home over
four and a half furlongs by King’s Own and Sir
Modred, and the two-year-old had all the best of
it. First Demon, with his stable companion,
Bristol, next appeared, but they did nothing of
note, and were content with a steady canter over
two miles. A strong mile and a quarter was then
given to Hypatia, who moved along as though she
enjoyed her gallop. Cygnet, after cantering a
couple of miles, was taken over the practising
sticks in the middle of the course by Allsopp,
and kept up his reputation as a splendid
jumper. Morpeth cantered twice round, and
then Charming, with Bargo for attendant, ran
home over a strong three furlongs to wind
up two miles. Macaroni, looking none the
worse for his Goulburn trip, did long, strong
work, but Garfield, Lord Exeter, and Parapluie
did nothing but canter slowly over two miles and
a half. Olga and Waxllght moved along slowly,
and then Cunnamulla, Stockdale, and Pell Mell
cantered twice round. A strong race round, at
about three-quarter pace, was what Monaghan
treated Faro and Snaveller to, and although all
eyes were centred on Despot and Martini-Henry
as they came out from the far side, their work—
twice round steadily—was nothing to get aline
from; but the friends of both may be satisfied they
are as well as need be. Buckingham had a com-
panion in a stiff run home from the five furlongs,
but lolanthe and Superb i did nothing but a mild
breather. Navigator moved along gently, and this
was all worth mentioning during an unimportant
morning’s work. The late rains have made the
course very holding, especially the newly made
ground.
J. Brown left on Tuesday for Melbourne, with
Cunnamulla, Pell Mell, and Parapluie, and the re-
mainder, Stockdale and the two-year-olds, are to
follow on Tuesday next. Monaghan has gone with
Le Grand, Charming, and Sardonyx, and Fennelly
follows in a day or two. Lawson leaves on Wed-
nesday next with Bristol and First Demon; and
Allsopp has not, I think, yet decided when he will
take King’s Own and Sir Modred,
The work on the training grounds at Randwick
has, up to the present, not given a line as to which
is likely to be the Simon Pure among the two- J
year-olds that are to represent us in the youngsters’
races at Flemlngton, and, with different stirlngs
leaving us daily, I fear we shall have to wait until
near the day for a whisper from the sister cojlony,
for the “ watch ” to tell us something reliable* Mr.
de Mestre’s youngsters didn’t show us anything;
Buckingham and Garfield are best of Lainond’s
and Brown’s; King’s Own must run well; and the
choice of Fennelly’s charges ought to make up a
formidable list of representatives. If Buckingham
bo the clinker I am informed and hope he is,
then the others will be called upon to meet a foe-
man of no mean order.
On Friday evening last, between 9 and 10 o’clock,
a fire was discovered at Mr. Garling’s, better
known as Pennelly’s, Bazaar, in Pitt-street, and
being so centrally situated, the alarm soon spread,
and caused a deal of excitement. At such an
hour there were not wanting willing hands to help
to subdue the fire, which started in the northern
loft amongst some hay near the Castlereagh-street
entrance. Three sides of the stable in Castlereagh-
street are devoted to stalls, and most, if not all, of
these were occupied by horses, which were set at
liberty as soon as possible, and being naturally
very much frightened, they rushed pell-mell into
the street, with the result that two or three were
known to be killed. So quickly did the firemen
get to work that within half an hour the flames
were subdued, .vith a comparatively small loss, and
the Bazaar and contents treed from danger. Had
the lire been discovered only a couple of hours
later, there’s no knowing how much damage would
have been done, for many buildings round about
are of such a ricketty nature that very little time
would have sufficed for a fair hold to be obtained,
and the whole block might have been demolished.
Pei sons have been blamed for turning the horses
loose, but I think they acted with good judgment,
as it wasn’t easy to tell that the “ fire king ’ would
so quickly be subdued. Among the horses on the
premises when the fire broke out, was The Gem,
but he was removed to a place of safety without
being injured. I heard, however, on Saturday,
that the horse was so terrified as to render him
almost mad for some time after; and up to the
time I was told, he was frightened when even his
groom went to enter his box. The well-known
hunter Cream Cheese, just purchased by Mr. R. R.
Morissett, Police Magistrate of Deniliquin, from
Mr. Superintendent Morrissett, of Maitland, was
also In one of the boxes, and he was one of those
turned adrift into the street. Nothing was heard
of him till about three o’clock on Saturday after-
noon, when he and four others were brought in
from Trueman's Coach and Horses Hotel at Rand-
wick, and it is satisfactory to know they were none
of them hurt; indeed I’m sure Cream Cheese hadn’t
a scratch.
With reference to a remark we made last week
re the specified hour for closing of stakes and
other such business, it appears that the rule of
the A.J.C. only makes 4 p.m. the time, when no
other is notified in the programme; so that pro-
vincial secretaries are in no way bound to adopt
the A.J.C. hour of closing, etc., unless they are
careless enough to make no dates fer themselves
when drawing out their advertisements.
The well-known and once dangerous hurdle-
racer, Gaffer Grey, has not yet retired from the
business, for I find that he ran at the late Ballarat
Hunt Club meeting in the Hunt Club Cup, carrying
II stone, but couldn’t get a place. Much as I should
like to hear of Mr. Glenister’s old favourite doing
well, I think it’s time the old fellow was given a
spell, and allowed to spend the rest of his days in
“ peace and quiet.”
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
D. Green, of Adelaide, and T. Wood, of
Melbourne, rowed two miles on the Lower Yarra,
on Saturday last. Green proved a frost, and Wood
won as he liked in 14min. lOsec.
Should Muldoon pay his projected visit to
Australia, it is not altogether off the cards that he
might tackle Miller with the gloves. The “solid
man” was taught how to use the mittens by Mike
Donovan, and is anything but a “slouch” with
them.
The N.S.W. Athletic Club had damp, bad
weather for their inaugural meeting on Saturday
last. J. H. Williams won the 100 yards’ handicap;
T. Furlong won the quarter-mile handicap; the
mile handicap fell to G. Sheddon; C. Taylor won
the members’ mile walking handicap ; T. Hyde
carried off the 150 yards’ grand handicap; L. Cun-
ningham won the 130 yards’ hurdle handicap; S.
Lewis won the four miles walking handicap, from
scratch; A. While won the live miles running han-
dicap; and H. Hughes won the quoit handicap.
A fact not generally known (says the
Maitland Mercury) Is that Mr. Mundy offered to
match his colt, First Demon, to run Le Grand a
mile and a half or two miles, for £500 or £1000, but
the owner of the Queensland colt did not care
about it.
The English leng-distance amateur swim-
ming championship was decided over the course
from Putney Bridge to Charing Cross railway
bridge, 5H miles, and resulted in a win for W. R.
Itter, in Ih. 14m. A strong tide was running with
the competitors.
The programme for the Victorian Yacht-
ing Club annual yachting regatta, to be held on 9th
November, offers prizes to the value of £340 10s.—
£100 for first-class yachts, £60 for second and third
class yachts, £30 for cruising yachts, and £34 for
half-decked boats.
George W. Hamilton, the American cham-
pion jumper, recently accomplished a wonderful
feat. Five chairs were placed in a line, and L. L.
Burton, of Clio, Mich., stood upright at the end of
the fifth chair. Hamilton then jumped over the
chairs and Burton’s head.
A Brisbane correspondent writes us that
last year he sent £5 for a chance in the “Mara-
quita ” sweep on the Melbourne Cup, but although
he made every inquiry, he has never been able to
trace his fiver. The Banana-man adds: “And now
the fellow has the cheek to advertise a consulta-
tion on this year’s Cup.”
The Grand Melbourne Cup Pigeon Shoot-
ing Handicap has been fixed for November 7. The
competition is open to all comers, and the first
prize consists of 200 so vs. and a gold cup of the
value of 50 guineas, the second 60 sovs., the third
30 sovs., and the fourth 10 sovs. The conditions
are nine birds each; guns limited to 13 gauge, with
use of both barrels; 1 quarter shot. Melbourne
Club rules.
Mr. James Lennox, a son of the Provost of
Dumfries, has travelled on a bicycle fi’om John
O’Groat’s to Land’s End—a distance, by road, of
nearly 1100 miles—in nine days. The journey has
been accomplished in the same fashion before, but
never in so short a time. Nevertheless, the nine
days included a delay caused by the breaking-down
of the iron steed, and another stoppage of several
hours owing to a violent gale. Taken altogether,
this is stated to be the greatest bicycle achieve-
ment on record.
At Miller’s athletic entertainment at Sand-
hurst on 19th September, the “ Professor” and
Blackburn met in a catch-as-catoh-can above the
waist wrestling match, two shoulders and one hip,
or two hips and one shoulder, to be placed fairly on
the floor to count a fall. Blackburn is a short,
thick-set man, with tremendous limbs, and weighs
between fourteen and fifteen stone. Miller gained
the first fall in lOmln. 30sec., and Blackburn the
second in 9mln. As fifteen minutes was the time
agreed upon to wrestle, and the men had been at
it several minutes over time, the referee declared
it a draw. Blackburn is evidently no pick-up.
The Mercantile Rowing Club had anything
but propitious weather for their regatta on Satur-
day, as it both blew and rained rather heavily
during the afternoon. R. N. Bull won the Junior
Sculls; Hebblewhite, Fitzgerald, Cox, and Picker-
ing won the Senior Fours. The crew stroked by
Martin swamped their boat. Pegg and White came
in first for the Maiden Double-sculls, but the raee
was ordered to be rowed over again, on account of
afoul. Yule, Young, Stevenson, and H. H. Bros
appropriated the Junior Fours; Trimble and Brett
won the Senior Double Sculls: and Grace, Warre,
Taylor, and Brindley won the Maiden Fours, after
race with the crew stroked by Seale.
“ waited, a secretary for the race-club—
one who can tffi&h referred,” appears as an adver-
tisement in a western paper. The last racing
secretary, whose clC se an<i unswerving friendship
it was our privilege tC eD Joy, lived about seven or
eight hundred miles ff<? m toe Archer River, up
North. He was much looked up to locally on
account of his scholarship’ .hut the admiration
culmlna*e(r-into obseauious? eS8 > when, the day
before the race*,, ho nanttrTip a dozen of the fol-
lowing placards t—
“ No dorgs slowed on the corse. Orses:
is to keep inside the rales.” :
Charles Pugh, of San Bernardino, and C.
M. Anderson, the champion long-distance rider of
California, rode a 50-mile race on July 9 The
riders had at their disposal for the race ten horses
each. A little after four o’clock the riders made
the start, Anderson taking the lead. Pugh un-
doubtedly allowed him this privilege for the pur-
pose of saving the strength of his own horses.
About the thirty-fifth mile Pugh shot ahead, but
in the next heat lost his ground. In about the
forty-second or forty-third mile Pugh got ahead,
and up to the fiftieth gradually made the gap
between the two greater, winning the race bv over
half a mile. Pugh’s horses were almost fresh to
the last, and it is a remarkable fact that the quick-
est heat was made by Pugh in the fiftieth mile, in
exactly two minutes. Anderson’s horses, which
were young, were very much fatigued. The fifty
miles were made in 1 h. 50 min. 3i sec.
Tom Cribb, the world-renowned Cham-
pion of England, was the true type of an English-
man, and well would it be if only one like him
could be found amongst the British pugilists of
the present day. Honest inside and outside the
ring, kind and unoffending as man could be, and
one of the last men in England who would lift his
hand to strike a blow in private life, after his re-
tirement from the ring, he gained much in cor-
pulency, and when in his top boots and breeches
(the dress of the day), and white “ tile ” of enor-
mous circumference of brim, no better picture of
“John Bull” could be imagined. But while no
one disputed his claim to the championship up to
tue time of his retirement, there was one over
whom he could not hold that ascendancy. That
one was “ Mrs. Cribb,” who although but a little
woman, ruled Tom with sovereign power, and
often while at his “free and easy,” which Tom
loved to attend—whilst blowing a happy cloud
from his yard of clay—a gentle message would be
delivered per waiter: “ You’re wanted, Mr. Cribb.”
Tom would take the hint, ask no questions, but
knock the dust out of his pipe, reluctantly mount
the white tile, and make a start, while Mrs. C.
waited below stairs to receive and salute him with
—“ Well, I think it time you got home now, eleven
o’clock.” Tom never argued the point, but in
almost everything yielded to his acknowledged
conqueror. What a contrast to the husbands of
the present day 1
He was a Canadian and talked so quickly
that you fancied he had an engagement to die
pretty soon and didn’t want to miss it. Did he
know Hanlan ? Well, he ought to smile if he had
time. If there was any man in the world who
could lay claim to knowing Hanlan he was the
man. Did he think Laycock would have any
chance against him ? Yes—about as much chance
as rheumatism against a streak of lightning- Han-
lan, was a half-alligator ; that’s what he was. All
these fellows who live on the lakes are. They
spend nearly all their time on the water. For
eight months in the year the water is frozen. At
that rate, then, we said, Canadian scullers haven’t
as much chance for practising as Australian
scullers have ? Pshaw ! The Canadians break a
way for their boats through the ice with an axe,
and then make better time than Australian
scullers could make in open water. Did it freeze
hard in Canada? Well, he didn’t know if you
would call it hard, but you could hear it freezing.
Well, yes, we did call that hard—hard to swallow.
Why, that was nothing. All through the winter
there they quarried for fish. The fish quarries of
Lake Ontario, are one of the greatest sources of
revenue to the Canadian Government. Frost?
Why there was a man who started to swim the
Bed River Falls and a frost came on suddenly.
Well, what then ? Well, the man never got to the
bottom ; he was frozen half way down. He is
hanging there now if the river hasn’t thawed.
People in this country know nothing of ice. Why,
two years ago, when he went up to the North Pole
in an iceberg—We got up at this point and killed
him. We intended to have sold his skeleton to
Barnura but it disappeared in the night with a
smell of sulphur. His Father took it.


N.S.W. Magistrates hold that cheques
prawn by drunken men are valid. Tuen why not
agreements, contracts, &c. ? What is a cheque
but a covenant to pay ?
That Husband of Mink is three times the man
he was botorc he began using “Wells’ Health
Renewer.” Druggists, Moses, Moss & Co., Sydney,
General Agents,
Two billiardista started playing at the
Albert Hotel, Auckland, the other night. One of
them rather prided himself on his skill with the
cue, but the other evidently was only a novice.
The latter speedily parted with several half-crowns,
but, with the prevorse obstinacy of muffs generally,
persisted in playing. Then a well-known Auckland
betting man made a few soft bets on the amateur,
who also backed himself; and in the course of a few
games he iuproved so rapidly in his play that about
£128 had changed hands, the betting man made a
haul of about £30, and the innocent amateur won
about £60 out of his swag. It subsequently tran-
spired that the amateur was a crack player from
the South. Then the losers used some expressions
commonly in use at sea, and swore off billiards for
ever.
After the Sullivan-Slade fight the American
.shook hands with the Maori and exclaimed, A la
Hanlan, “ Good bye, old man, it can't be helped;
you are the best man I ever tackled.” When
askecEwhat he thoughtof Slade, he replied: “He is
•a little superior to Mitchell, and far superior to
Tug Wilson. He showed groat pluck, and few men
would have come up to the scratch after being
'knocked over the ropes and receiving such a fan
;as he had in the first round.” Mace seemed satis-
fied with the Maori’s pluck—perhaps he measured
ft by his own—but, said the veteran, “his head was
in the road.” Apropos, the Hanlan and Sullivan
practice of saying to each beaten man, “You’re
the best sculler, or You’re the pluckiest boxer,
I ever met,” is a capital way of plastering glory on
to one’s self.
William Sheriff, better known in English
fighting circles, as “ The Prussian,” recently went
over to America with the intention of tackling
the best Yankee mlddleweights; but as none of
them responded to a challenge issued by him, he
ihas now .flown for higher game, and is out with a
•challenge to box Sullivan, and to show he means
business he has put up a deposit of £50. He offers
to fight John IL. Sullivan a four or six round glove-
•contest for £2DJ) a side; each party to be allowed
five to ten meu'(whlchever is satisfactory to Sulll-
wan). the .contest to take place within five or six
weeks from signing articles. He claims that he
•can make with Sullivan one of the best glove-con-
rteste thatlhas ever taken place in the country, and
{fie promises to make for him a hotter set-to than
\he has ever had with any man, providing it should
be Sullivan’s luck to “ down ” him. He then offers
to spar or fight any man that he has ever contested
with, for an extra £200, in six weeks after his light
with Sullivan. Or, if Sullivan does not accept this
offer, he then challenges any man that he has ever
contested with to either spar or fight for £200 a
side in five, six, or eight weeks from signing ar-
ticles.
The omission of time and distance in the
challenge sent to Hanlan on behalf of Laycock,
would seem to lead the Americans to d mbt its
genuineness, judging from the tone of the Yankee
press. The Clipper, in commenting upon the
challenge, says “ The champion will probably
accept, provided it is genuine, as he has been, we
understand, seriously contemplating a trip to the
antipodes, and an inducement such as this may
cause him to make up his mind very quickly.
Under any circumstances, however, he will hardly
start before the close of the rowing season in the
States.” Should it be decided to substitute Beach
for Laycock, it would be as well to specify about
when the race would eventuate, and to state the
distance of the Parramatta champion course. So
far as Beach is concerned, we are under the im-
pression that, on a calm day, he would make as
good, if not a better, show than Laycock against
the Canadian, If a line can be taken from his
splendid row against Trickett in their last match,
when he won with the greatest ease in 20.44. But
judging by that best of guides—performances—it
is preposterous to think either of our scullers
could even extend the champion over the Parra-
matta or any other course.
The Spirit of the Times speaks in high
terms of the American trotter Pioneer, recently
purchased by Mr. A. Roberts, of Melbourne. It
saysGeneral William T. Withers, of Falrlawn
Farm, Lexington, Ky., has been particularly pro-
minent in making sales to remote parts, and the
most recent that we have to chronicle is one of a
horse that was shipped from San Francisco, July
28, to Mr. J. A. Roberts, Melbourne. It was the
black stallion Pioneer, foaled May 16,1880, sired by
Cassius M. Clay Jr., dam Ellen M„ by Almont;
second dam, Dolly Spanker, by Hunt’s Commo-
dore; third dam by Hunt’s Brown Highlander;
fourth dam by Potomac, son of imp. Dlomed. Mr.
Roberts has secured a young horse that can be con-
fidently recommended to Australian breeders. He is
big, rangy, and stylish, finely gaited, and must be
speedy. General Withers shows his appreciation
of the breeding by reserving the full sister of
Pioneer, Pensora, for a brood mare, although he
has been offered a long price for her. The value
of the blood lines that meet in Pioneer was forci-
bly Illustrated at Cleveland, when Clemmie Q„ by
Magic, son of Cassius M. Clay, Jr-, won a splendid
race, in the 2.20 class. Fanny Witherspoon, by
Almont, defeated St. Julien, Edwin Thorne, and
Trinket in the free-for-all, and Westmont, by
Almont, won the 2.20 pacing. Pew stallions are so
richly bred, and he is entitled to be a pioneer of
our trotting stock to the Antipodes.”
Miller is out with the following challenge
in Melbourne Sportsman :—“ I will wager £100
that I can throw anyone in Australia four times in
one hour in the Grneco-Roman style of wrestling,
t am also prepared to make a match against any
Wrestler in Australia to wrestle in a mixture of
all Styles of wrestling, namely, catch-as-catch-can
above the waist, tripping allowed, two shoulders
and one hip, or two hips and one shoulder, to be
considered a fall. The wrestlers to be attired In
tight-fitting undershirts, tights, trunks, and socks.
Best two in three or three in five falls, for £100
a side and upwards. I hereby challenge Mr. John
L. Sullivan, of Boston, champion of America, to
box with small or ordinary-sized boxing-gloves,
one to win, for £500 a side and the championship
of the world, the match to take place in Australia
or New Zealand; the rules of the ring to govern
the contest. I will allow Sullivan £100 ex-
penses.” In offering to fight with small gloves
and under “ ring ” rules, which allow throwing
.and only half-minute rests, Miller has changed his
Tole since he told Hicken—who wanted, right or
wrong, to tackle him in the ring—that “ he was an
a thlete, and not a pugilist.” Miller’s idea is no
do'ubt that, under the rules of the ring, be will
ha\ T e all the best of the wrestling, and that his
won’derful powers of endurance will stand to him
in th « short rests. However, it is well to remember
that t he American remarked after the Slade affair
that 1 the half-caste forced the pace, or even
stood uV to him, he would have knocked him out
in one r iiwod, as his hitting would have been so
much effective on a man coming in than on
one alway ' rtfi the retreat. A Melbourne sporting
paper last week stated, in all seriousness, that
Miller “ had already forwarded a challenge to
Sullivan bef.w* the arrival of the news re the
Slade affair, a’nd he is now doubly anxious to re-
ceive a favourable reply.”
From the tone of some of the American
papers it would seem, that Hanlan got all the worst
of the verbal war with Courtney, at Ogdensburg.
Hanlan was very much riled when he read in the
morning papers that Courtney’s object in coming
to Ogdensburg was mainly to make a match with
him and was in this mood when, upon entering
press headquarters, which were connected with
his boat-house, he espied Courtney seated in the
office He immediately went at him with the de-
claration that he would row him anywhere, and on
any sort of water, for £1000 a side. Courtney
quietly replied that he didn t have so much money
about him and asked Hanlan to wait till the pro-
per time came. The champion replied that he
wanted to bring Charles out in a race for £1000,
saying that he had never rowed a “ square” race in
his life ; he would make a match to row Courtney
iln front of his own door, and bet him £1000 to
£800 that he dare not row. Courtney declined
-doing business on this basis, but said that, should
Hanlan attend the regatta at Watkins (and he
•understood he had been guaranteed £100 for his
•services), he would bet him £200 even that he
(Courtney) would make him row faster than he
Bad ever yet rowed. Hanlan replied that he would
wager £200 that he would defeat the New-Yorker
there; but that was not good enough for the
latter, and, as Hanlan has too good an opinion of
Courtney’s abilities to take chances on the time
proposition, nothing satisfactory was accom-
Elished. Throughout the meeting Hanlan bore
imself in a bullying manner that surprised those
present, repeatedly applying such epithets as
Liar, Duffer,” “ Skim’ and “almost a thief” to
, a .,°fifi oueat > who remained tantalizingly cool,
while Ned was excited and vehement in speech.
Once only did Courtney betray any feeling, and
that was when, after the champion had applied an
offensive epithet to him, he arose, and, stepping
up to Hanlan, said that he could beat him either in
a boat or out of a bo t, and Ed. knew he could. At
anot her time he remarked that nothi g that Han-
lan could say would cause him to strike him, to
which Hanlan i eplied that he had better not strike
him. The champion declared that Courtney bad
do e more than any other man to injure the cause
of professional rowing, had disgraced his pro-
fession as no other man had ever done, and said
that he (Hanlan) intended to do all in his power
to have him disqualified for any further racing.
He also stated he would back six men to beat
Courtney, but the latter made the champion eat
dirt, as he placed a deposit of £300 for six matches
for £200 each, Hanlan refused to cover the de-
p sit, and afterwards denied that he ever made
such an offer. He said that what lie did say to
Courtney was, that he would name six men who
could row him.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
At Narrabri, the horse Bushman was
kicked by a stable companion clean into the
manger, where helay heels upwardstilldiscovered,
when the manger had to be chopped down before
he could be turned right side up—at least so says
the Narrabri Herald Mr. A Fittes, of Victoria,
has started easy preparatory work for the next
champagne contest At Bourke, Campbell de-
feated Turner in a 50 yards spin, for £10 aside. A
second match was made, which was declared a
dead heat. Campbell won the run off by three or
four yards — F, C. Bayliss was the recipient of the
Wallaroo “cap of honour ” for all-round play
Rumoured that Midwinter, the cricketer, is about
to become host of the Post Office Club Hotel,
Melbourne— £150 in prizes to be contested
for at the Yass Prince of Wales’ birthday
sports ; a bicycle race for £10 Newly-
formed Gunnedah Athletic Club will nold
their inaugural meeting on 9th November
Two Sydney bicyclists scared to death the other
day a steed belonging to the Newcastle Inspector
of Nuisances. The horse had never before seen
Hebrews—The Double Bay regatta promises to
be, as usual, the principal suburban aquatic event
of the season, judging from the excellent card of
fifteen events to be competed for on 27th October.
... Two members of the Melbourne Bicycle Club
are credited with having ridden 100 miles in 11
hours, including stoppages A. D. Badgery won
a pigeon match at Goulburn on27th September. ..
We have not yet heard the last of the Irish in-
formers, as, according to the Melbourne D.T., Mr.
Hunt, of the Oxford Hotel; has received the
following telegram from Hanlon: “ Will row
for purse of 1000 sovereigns.” We fancy
the gentleman would row, till further
orders, for a much smaller remuneration...
Simpleton broke down in the Ballarat Steeple-
chase— The Victorian Cricketers’ Association has
decided that residence in the colony for four
months will qualify players for cup matches
The Hamilton (Vic.) Jockey Club has determined
to charge the bookmakers a two-guinea fee The
two Adelong cricket clubs have amalgamated, and
intend to challenge Turaut to play for tne Mendel-
son Cup at the end of October The following
team has been selected to represent Victoria in the
forthcoming chess match with N. S. Wales, to
come off on 9th November:—Messrs. W sker,
Fisher, Esling, Stephen, Whitton, and Stanley.
Emergency men: Messrs. Hamel and Fleming
G. P. Donnelly, of New Zealand, has decided to
relinquish the turf, and intends to bring all his
racing stud under the hammer. The list will
Include several youngsters by Pohokura and Mus-
ket... On Saturday week, at Homebush, Penno
and Wherry raced 150 yards, for £25 aside. Penno
won easily. Same day, at Singleton. Walter
Smith, and M. Bourke, of Scott’s Flat, ran
a similar distance for £5 a side. Smith won
At Buckley’s Crossing (near Cooma) sports, C.
Eccleston won the hop-step-and-jump, covering
39ft... At Ballalaba, a few days ago, Mr. E. M.
Boyd’s thoroughbred mare, The Orphan, by
Mabrlynong— Rosebud, Jthrew a very fine bay colt
foal to Grand Flaneur. If breeding be any cri-
terion, this youngster, with proper care and
ordinary luck, should make a name for himself on
the colonial turf at some future time.. ..Mr.
Richard Chapman has not yet recovered a single
penny of the £150 he lost, or was robbed
of, on the Maitland racecourse. Mr. Chapman
appears to treat the matter in a most stoical way...
A “ Layer of Odds ” asks“ Supposing a young
lady, who Is mistress of a telegraph office, is en-
gaged to a young man outside the department,
and she knows by telegrams that a certain horse
on which her friend stands to win £2000 has sud-
denly gone wrong, would she let out the secret
and advise that young man to rush down to a
guileless bookmaker and lay off ?” We don’t
think, she would, unless love, or duty, or some-
thing else impelled her. Anyway, where do you
find your guileless booky ?
* * *
The wrestling match for £200 between
Edwin Bibby and Rigal, at San Francisco, was won
by Bibby The first tricycle race ever held in
America took place on July 81, from Sharon to
Boston, a distance of 18 miles, and was won by W.
W. Stahl, in Ih. 30m. 50s—It is rumoured in
American trotting circles that both Duquesne and
Phallas can trot their mile in 2m. Phallas
recently easily defeated Majolica in 2m. 16)ks
The next claimant for the distinction of being
“ knocked out” by J. L. Sullivan is Paddy Ryan,
who was badly beaten by the champion at New
Orleans. He says that it is owing to his being
beaten by Sullivan that the latter gained his
reputation, and thinks it is but right he should
§ive him another meeting. Sullivan wants to
ght in Boston, but Ryan objects to fight
the champion on his own ground “ No.
100,” an unnamed American steam yacht, is
represented to have outstripped both Mr. Gould's
Atlanta and Mr. Lorillard’s Radha on Narragansett
Bay within a week. She is said to have developed
a speed of 19% knots per hour... At Chicago, U.S.,
on 19th July, the horse Richbald paced a mile in
2min. 13sec. He was sold after the race for £2000.
Charles Smith, the champion butcher of Chi-
cago, killed and dressed a 12001b. bullock at Cleve-
land, O., on July 28, in7min. Charles Leyden, at the
Bridgeport, 111., tournament for the champion belt,
May 15, 1869, killed and dressed a bullock in Imin.
45sec. .Albany Smith, the coloured boxer, went to a
show and offered to box Sullivan, but the latter re-
fused on account of Smith’s colour.. .Hanlan, it is
stated, has a hapoy faculty of betting on sure
things, but the last bet he made on what he con-
sidered a certainty cost him £40. On August 5
Hanlan bet that amount that John O’Brien, of
Excelsior, on Lake Minnetonka, could not take
Plaisted’s shell, deprived of Its outriggers, and sit
or stand in it and Saddle around one minute with-
out upsetting. It was won by O’Brien, who
succeeded in managing the shell both sitting and
standing... The bicycle race for the 50-m ile amateur
championship of England was decided at the
Crystal Palace, London, Eng., on July 21. H. F.
Wilson won, beating eleven competitors. He went
to the front at 25 miles, and was never after-
headed. He rode the distance in 2h. 46min. 26%sec.
F. R. Frey came in second, beaten by 200 yards,
and C. D. Vesey came in third, three miles behind
the winner.... An eight-mile race between bicycle
and horse took place recently in America. The
horse covered the ground in35min., and the bicycle
in35min.30sec The third match between William
Elliott, the English sculler, and George Gaisel, was
rowed at Newark, U.S., on 6th August, and re-
sulted in an easy win for Elliott—Says an Ameri-
can paper: “The wrestlers continue to work the
pockets of the gullible San Francisco people us
they did those of New-Yorkers until the latter
“dropped.” William Muldoon and Edwin Bibby
engaged in an exhibition on the plan of one hour
Grateco-Roman and one hour catch-as-catch-cau,
on July 17, Of course, neither gained a fall, u
draw was proclaimed, the gate-money whacked
up, and then each declared his readiness
tr, wrestle again for big stakes. You bet.” —
John B, Haines, of Toms River, U.S., has a St.
Bernard slut which he values at £4000, and for
which he has refused £2000. Her name is Judy,
and she is insured against accident for £2000. She
gives two litters of puppies annually, and, as each
pup sells readily for £20, the revenue from her
amounts to from £200 to £300 Prince Charlie,
the English flyer, has been sold to an American
named Swigert, for 680 guineas. An offer of 10,0,0
sovereigns was once made for Charlie, who, by the
way, is an inveterate roarer The cost of fur-
nishing John Sullivan’s saloon was £4000, and the
rent is stated at £600 per annum. The receipts of
the bar from August 7th to 16th were stated to be
£600. Sullivan announces his Intention of taking
matters quietly for two or three months, after
which he will go on an exhibition trip to California
with his manager, Al. Smith The N. Y. Clipper
hears that the reason Hanlan has deferred arrang-
ing a double-scull match with Hamm and Conley
is that he is looking out for a more suitable part-
ner than his present companion for such a race
The single scull race, three miles with a turn, at
Lake Minnetonka, Minn., on August 2, was
rowed in heats. Teemer, Lee, and Plaisted rowed
in the first heat, which was won by Teemer iu 21m.
50s.; Lee second, Hanlan, Hosmer, and Riley were
placed for the second heat. Hanlan pulled away
easily, closely followed by Hosmer and Riley. At
the stake Hanlan intentionally fooled away several
seconds, until Hosmer caught up, when as pretty a
race as was ever seen was rowed to the starting
point, Hosmer pushing the champion closely
to the finish. Hanlan won in 21m. The
decisive heat was rowed and easily won by
Hanlan, Hosmer second, and Teemer third...
The greatest “masher” of the day—Mr. John
Sullivan—Steele, the Scottish-American runner,
who was backed to run Cummings, the Scotch
flyer, on 18th August, has, it is stated, been mixed
up in some very dirty business. It is alleged that
in a recent race with Herbert, he double-crossed
the latter’s backer, J. R. Deegan, first agreeing to
lose and then winning the race. Herbert’s backers
enjoined the stakeholder and a holaer of bets
amounting to £250, from giving up the money to
Steele’s friends, and the bets were returned to the
depositors. ...A new Indian club for athletes has
been patented in America. It has a section in the
centre, and by putting in weights can be made to
weigh from five to twenty-five ponuds.
Sires of the Season.
The Hunter Elver district, independent of the
Paterson, is this season exceptionally rich in stud
horses; and, taking into account the sires noticed
last week as located at Tocal, I may say the stud-
masters having their farms between Newcastle and
Singleton are remarkably well off in the best
strains of blood to mate their mares with. Besides
the convenience to resident owners, there are no
sires more easily reached by rail and steamer,
whether from North or South, than those I have
to deal with now.
At the head of last week’s advertisement column,
I find Mr. D. P. Mackay’s announcement of three
thoroughbreds to be visited at Minim bah, near
Whlttingham platform, the next stopping place
south of Singleton on the G.N. railway; and it’s not
too much to say that these form a right worthy
trio. The first of them is the imported Grand-
master, now in his prime, at fifteen years old; and
although hitherto blessed with only small onpor-
tunity, credited with the paternity of Sussex, one
of the grandest stayers and weight - carriers
ever bred here, as well as Sting, who per-
formed well enough to reach a value of
1600 guineas, and, among other good things, won
the Adelaide Cup. Grandmaster is by that won-
derful French-bred Derby and Leger winner,
Gladiateur, from Celerima, by Stockwell, &c , than
which nothing can be better for pedigree. With
Grandmaster is associated Lecturer, son of im-
ported Kingston and the younger Sappho, being
thus fi 11 brother to Kingsborough and Savanaka,
and half-brother to Emily, Nellie, Bertie, Spinning-
dale, and Saionara. It is sufficient to say that Lec-
turer never was beaten, having started but thrice,
at which essays he ran a dead-heat at Bathurst
with Commodore, and then won the Champagne
and Sires’ Produce Stakes at Randwick. At the
stud, Lecturer has not been favoured with large
patronage; but, as a sire of winners, he has done
much better than under the circumstances could
have been expected. I notice that Mr. Mackay
offers a £25 cup for the produce of each of these
horses this season—the cups to be run for at West
Maitland when the youngsters are two years old.
The third nag in the Minimbah boxes is King of
the West, bred in 1870 by Mr. J. T. Tindale, and got
by imported Gemma di Vergy from a Little John
mare. He was a good honest performer, having
run in some thirty-five races, during five seasons,
and his many wins in good company are well re-
membered.
The Duckenfield Park stud, the property of the
Hon. John Bales, is presided over by a couple of
remarkably well-bred horses, that are hardly to be
beaten for family prestige-, and I think I am justi-
fied in expecting turf successes for their progeny.
Henchman (first called Friday), is, as might be
inferred from the significance of his naming on
both occasions, brother of Robinson Crusoe, whose
name will be handed down for many a year as
having been conferred upon one of the survivors of
the ill-fated lot of grand horses that were shipped
from Sydney for Melbourne after the A. J. C.
Spring meeting of 1876, when there were lost in the
storm the Metropolitan Stakes winner, Nemesis,
and the previous year’s Derby winner, Robin
Hood. Robinson Crusoe won all the great races of
his time, besides in his first season at the
stud giving us Navigator. Unfortunately an
accident prevented Henchman having a chance
of showing his quality on the turf. Having
said he is own brother to Robinson Crusoe, it
is almost needless to add that he is by Angler (son
of Fisherman and Marchioness) from Chrysolite
(daughter of Stockwell and Juliet by Touchstone).
Here also is Crown Prince, who, when making his
dehut in the training stable, was one of the best
looking colts of his year, as he was certainly the
most unlucky, having met with so serious an acci-
dent as almost to cost him his life. Of course, he
never raced, but for strength and symmetry ho has
few, if any, superiors: and the following pedigree
needs little telling about itGot by imported
Kelpie (son of Weatherbit and Child of The Mist)
from Queen’s Head (daughter of Yattendon and
Gazelle, and own sister to Reprieve and Burwood).
Besides these blood horses, there is a very high-
class heavy draught advertised in the same neigh-
bourhood, Mr. D. F. Mackay having him at Minim-
bah. This is Grand Australian, bred by Mr. E.
Larkin, of Windmill Hill, Appin, who imported
the sire and dam—the champion prize horse and
mare, Honest Tom and Lady Lincoln. I have seen
no better of their sort brought out here; and
Grand Australian is the best colt they ever had
I also notice by your list of announcements that
Sydney and Suburban owners of draught mares
are afforded a chance seldom given them of having
the services of a*flrst-rate Clydesdale sire at then-
very doors, Clyde Lad being stationed at Ashfleld,
and travelling the County of Cumberland. This is
a rare-bred one, being by Mr. Town’s world-famed
Muir Lad, sire of more high-priced colts than any
other heavy horse in the colonies; and his owner
ought to be well recompensed for supplying a
want so near the metropolis. More next week.
PEGASUS.
GOULBURN RACES.
The club of last year’s formation brought off the
second meeting under Its auspices last week, and
was fairly successful. Goulburn has never gone
ahead much in turf matters, though Mr. Harry
Payten used to be a host in himself; but we must
hope the new club will be able to work things up
to a satisfactory line. The business is in good hands,
with Mr. Walter Douglas, of Inveraloehy, as presi-
dent; and, no doubt, the shortcomings we hear of
on the present occasion will be remedied on the
next. Hope’s son and daughter, Coolabah and
Hope, by Kelpie and Goldsbrough respectively,
were well to the front for the big things, winning
the Goulburn Cup and Ladies’ Bracelet; and Mr.
Forrester’s Soldier Boy successfully negotiated
Mr. J, T. Gannon’s Argyle Plate, with its accom-
panying century and a half. The sires chiefly
represented by winners were Goldsbrough (Tinder-
box and Hope), The Drummer (Silver Arrow and
Sloth—the latter full brother to Masquerade), Wil
berforce (Soldier Boy), Zetland (The Slave), Kelpie
(Coolabah), and The Friar (Thakombau). The races
came off as follows, and we hope next time to be
there
First Day.
Trial Stakes of 30 sovs., 1 mile.—Mr, J. Steen-
son's ch g linderbox, by Goldsbrough—Doily Var-
den, 4 yrs, 8.H (Kelso), 1; Mr. W. Cosgrove’s bg
The Slave, by Zetland, 5 yrs. 9.0 (Branch), 2; Mr. T
M'Alister ns b g Thakambau, 3 yrs, 7 9. (Clarke), 3.
Tambour Major, 6 yrs, 9.u; Unique, 4 yrs, 9.0; Tele-
gram (late Torpedo), 4 yrs, 8.11; also ran. Betting:
2 to 1 v. Tinderbox, 3 to 1 v. The Slave. Time, 1.48.
Flying Handicap of 40 sovs., % mile.—Mr. W.
Cosgrove’s bg Thi Slave, by Zetland, 5 yrs, 7.5
(Branch), 1; Mr. G. Donnelly’s bin Envy, 6 yrs,
7.12 (Smith), 2; Mr. M. Hillas's b g Macaroni, aged,
8.0 (Gallagher), 3. Oberon, 6 yrs, 7.9; Margaret,
aged, 7.7; Le Beau, 3 yrs, 7.3; Claudine, 4 yrs, 7.0;
and Dingo, 5 yrs, 7.0, started. Even and 5 to 4 v.
Le Beau; 3 to 1 v. Mac.a-onl.
The Gouluukn Cup, presented by Mr. W. J.
Chisholm, and 150 sovs. added, 2 miles.—Mr. O.
Poplin’s hr f Hope, by Goldsbrough—Hope, 3 yrs.,
6.7 (Vetter), 1; Mr. J. M’Kenzie’s b m Friendship,
4 yrs., 6.12 (Saunders), 2; S. Bradbury’s b g Twelve
Years, aged, 7.4 (Thomas), 3. The other starters
were BaTnoral 6 yrs., 8.9; Eva, 5yr.-„ 7.8; Rosi-
nante, aged, 7.2; Silver Arrow,6yrs., 7.0; and Foot-
print, 4 yrs., 6.6. Betting, 3 to 1 each v. Eva and
Twelve Years; 6 to 1 bar two. Time, 3.38.
Hack Handicap of 10 sovs., 1 mile.—Vanity,
8.12, 1; Sultan, 8.7, 2.
Commercial Handicap of 50 sovs., 25 sovs. pre-
sented by Messrs. Meyer and Son, 1% mile.—Mr.
W. J. Forrester’s b h Soldier Boy by Wilberlorce—
Spinaway, 4 yrs., 8.12 (Gordon), 1; Mr. ('. T. Roberts’
b m Eva, by Kelpie-Tiara, 5 yrs., 7.12 (Niehoison),
2; Mr. A. Chapman’s b h Unique, 4 yrs., 6.0 (Hogan),
3. Kelso, aged, 7.9; and Dingo, 5 yrs , 6.9, ran.
Betting, 5 to 4 on Eva; 3 to 1 v. Soldier Boy. Time,
2.14.
Second Day, Friday.
Publicans’ Purse of 50 sovs. (25 sovs. presented
by Mr. Harry Payten, and 25 subscribed by the
Licensed Victuallers of Goulburn); 7 furlongs—
Mr. Clayton’s b g Sloth, by The Drummer—Romp-
ing Girl, aged, 6.0 (Ruddle), 1; Mr. G. Donnelly’s
b m Envy, 6 yrs., 7.10 (Smith), 2; Mr. S. Bradbury’s
bg Twelve Years, aged, 8.3 (Colley), 3; The Slave,
5 yrs., 7.12; Tinderbox, 4 yrs., 7.7; Le Beau, 3 yrs,
6.12; Freedom, aged, 6.9; and Oberon, 6 yrs., 6.4,
also ran. Betting, 4 to 1 each v. Sloth and Twelve
Years.
Ladies’ Bracelet, value 25 guineas (presented
by Mr. B. S. Thompson, of Melbourne), with a
purse of 40 sovs ;1 mile :—Mrs. O. Paplin’s ns bh
Coolabah, by Kelpie—Hope, 4 yrs, 9 5, (Vetter) 1;
Miss A. Macalister’s ns bg Thackambau, 3yrs 6.10,
(Smith), 2; Mrs. E. M’Carthy’s ns bh Silver Arrow,
6 yrs, 7.12, (Nicholson), 3. Tinderbox, 4 yrs, 8.3;
Unique, 4yrs, 6 7; Tambour Major, 6yrs, 6.3; Clau-
dine, 4yrs, 6.12; and Titus, 4ys, ran.
The Argyle Plate (presented by Mr. J. T.
Gannon) and 150 sovs added. mile :—Mr W. J.
Forrester’s bh Soldier Boy, by Wilberforce—Spin-
away, 4yrs, 8.6 (Colley), 1; Mr. J. M-Kenzie’s bm
Friendship, 4yrs, 7.1 (Saunders), 2: Mr. G. Don-
nelly’s gg Kosinante, aged, 7.5 (Smith), 3. Macaroni,
aged, 7.13; Eva, 5yrs, 7.11; Twelve Years, aged, 7.7;
Hope, 3yrs, 7.3, (including 71b penalty) also ran.
Betting: 3 to 1 each v. Soldier Boy and Hope. Time,
2m 41J4j3.
Rous Handicap of 40 sovs., for 3-year-olds, 1%
mile,—Mr. T. M’Alister ns b g Thakambau, by The
Friar, 6.6 (Smith), 1; Mr. O. Poplin's br f Hope, 8.12
(Vetter), 2 ; Mr. T. Sampson's g c Le Beau, 7.9
(Nicholson), 3. Betting, 6 to 4 on Hope.
Free Handicap of 50 sovs., 1% mile.—Mr. E.
M’Carty’s b h Silver Arrow, by The Drummer-
Blossom, 6 yrs, 7.6 (Nicholson), 1; Mr. J. Pearce’s
bg Balmoral, 6 yrs, 8.5 (Gallagher), 2; Mr. J. Smith’s
b m Footprint, 4 yrs, 6.10 (Ruddle), 3. Envy, 6 yrs,
7.12; Kelso, aged, 7.0; Unique, 4 yrs, 6.4; and
Dingo, 5 yrs, 6.O., ran.
MU8CLEBROOK RACES, Thursday, Sept. 27.
The weather was fine until afternoon, when rain
fell, and the attendance was very poor.
Maiden Plate: Souvenir 1; Myra 2; Lectures.
Flying Handicap; Marmion, 7.9, 1; Erin, 7.12,
2; Epicure, 7.11, 3. Won by half a neck.
Mnsclebrook Handicap : Faust, 7.8, 1; The
Witch, 7.8, 2 ; Levi, 6.3, 3. Four started ; won
easily.
Prince of Wales’ Stake: Reforml; Priscilla2;
Sunbeam 3.
District Purse: Sweetbrlar 1; Myra 2; Chester-
ton 3. Won by a head.
The second day, owing to the Inclement weather,
has been postponed till the 8th.
WYNDHAM RACES, VICTORIA.
Thursday, September 27.
Hurdles, 1 % mile : Pemberley, 9.7, 1; Tarree,
10.8, 2; Springfield, 9.0, 3.
Spring Handicap, 1% mile: Maid of the Mist,
6.12,1; Flying Jib, 7.6, 2; Squireen, 8.7, 3.
Selling Handicap, 5 furlongs: Sceptic, 9.7,1;
Prattle, 9 0, 2,
Steeplechase, 2 miles: Squire, 11.0, 1. Peter,
10.0; and 14 old top 9.7, also ran.
Flying Handicap, 6 furlongs: Mistake, 7.9, 1;
King Charles, 8.3, 2; Klugson 6.12, 3.
ELSTERNWICK RACES.
Saturday, Sep. 29.
Hurdles.—Springfield, 9.0 (Jellett), 1; Bendigo.
9.8 (King), 2.
Maiden Trot.—Blackbird, 1.
Five-Furlong Handicap.—King Charles, 8.10,
(O’Rrien), 1; Cassiopeia, 7.10. 2; Hunter, 6.8,3.
Brighton Handicap.—Phanton, 8.2, 1; Coreena,
8.1,2; Wotongu, 6.10, 3.
Selling Race (handicap).—Little King, 10.7, 1 ;
Frou Frou, 9.7, 2; Prattle, 9.0, 3.
SYDNEY TURF CLUB WEIGHTS.
To be run Saturday, Oct. 6.
Hurdle Race, 2 miles: Dundreary, 11.9; War
Eagle, 10.10; Satellite, 9.12; Byron, 9.10; Cygnet,
9 7: Epaminondas, 9.5; Independent, 9.3; Uhlan,
9.3; First Try, Rejected, and The Deer, 9.0.
Favourite Plate, 6 furlongs: Hypatia, 9.3; Master
A venal, 9.0; Albury, 8.12: Soldier Boy, 8 11; Blue
and White, 8.9; Cupidon, 8,4; Faust, 8.2; Eva, 8.0;
The Fifer, 7.11; Here’s Luck, 7.8; Albert Victor,
7.9; Manfred, Belvidere, Silver Arrow, 7.7; Wallan-
gra, Emulation, 7.5; Kelso, Sportsman, 7.2; Bayard,
Venice 7.0; San Jose, Affection, 6.11; Bon Bon, la*
Beau, Tinderbox, 6 9 ; Fritz, Envy, The Slave,
Prima Donna, 6 7; Little Star, Minerva, The Demon,
6.6; Uralla, Crowned Head, Cygnet, 6 9; Armidale,
Jack the Devil, The Deer, 6.0
Corinthian Cup, l>4mile: Hypatia, 12.4; Soldier
Boy, 11.12; Norman, 11.7; Raven, 11.0; Mirabe u
10.9; Kangaroobie, 10.7; The Jay, 10.5; Le Bet...,
10.3; Prima Donna, 11.0; Uhlan, 9.12; The Deer, 9.10;
Crane, 9.7.
Farewell Handicap, 1% mile: TheGem,9.7; Pell
Mell, 9.5; Willeroo, 9.2; Stockdale, 9.0; Sweet Wil-
liam, 8.12; Masquerade, 8.10; Hypatia, 8.8; Albury,
8.6; Master Avenal, 8.4; Recovery, BalmoraK 8 2:
Bristol, Soldier Boy, 8.0; Myies-na-Coppaioon, 7 12;
Lord of the Lake, 7.10; Norman, Boscawen, 7.9;
Primus, 7.7; Gloucester, Faust, 7.4; The Filer,
Macaroni, 7.2;iCupidon, Eva, 7.0; Albert Victor,
6.12; Sportsman, 6.11; Belvidere, 6.10; Phyllis.
Rosiaante, 6.9; Kangaroobie, Silver Arrow, 6.8 ;
Here’s Luck, Emulation, 6.7; Twelve Years, Man-
fred, Kelso, 6.6; Wallanara, Carmen, 6.4 ; Le Beau,
Affection, 6.2; Bon Bon, Tinderbox, Armidale
Fritz, Envy, The Slave, 6.n.
For New South Wales Stud Farms, see page 17.


MARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
Bagatelle boards,
sizes. BRADLEY, NE
O’Connell-street.
portable. Various
WTON, and LAMB,
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at lowest prices. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Importers,
O’Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Eight-pound bedroom suites.-tra
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY,
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Conncll-street.
HEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 30s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, f ram 35s; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from 10s 6d; Tables, from 7s 6d; Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 30s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 35s; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
85s.
BRADLEY
NEWTON,
and LAMB,
SYDNEY.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Drawing-room cabinets— Early English,
Anglo-Japanese, and Chippendale designs.
Just opened. BRADLEY, NEW I ON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O Connell
streets.
OCCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c., _
CHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
Q’Connell-street. .
A3Y OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, for BEST
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection Invited.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Furniture
Importers, Spring and O’Connell streets,
TVR A WING- ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—
JJ A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 13s 6d.
Cl H A I R BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
j LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
T7IULL SUITES for DINING ROOM.—SLDE-
Jj BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, al
to rnat< h. ON VIEW at SHOW ROOMS, O’Connell-
street. _
TNTNG T ABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 30 feet.
JARDINIERES, Pnrqueterie and Ormolu.
VERY ELEGANT items for Drawing-room.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb. .
SE LF - ADJUSTING EQUILIBRIUM IN -
VALID CHAIRS. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB. _
FRAMEWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
D
F
- • and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
ind other designs, which can be upholstered in
my materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
I 71RAMEWORK tor DINING-ROOM FURNI-
' TURE, Handsome and Ma sive, m Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BESI 1 REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
EDSTE ADS, nickel-plated and black and brass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
B
BEDDING— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O Con-
nell-street. —.
ASHSTANDS, with marble, 35s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
w
GARDEN SEATS, 30s; Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O Connell-street.
ATTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES, 30i. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O Connell.
street. — —-
BENTWOOD FURNITURE—a very complete
Assortment just opened; many quite new
designs. -
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c., Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
ICE CHESTS, all sizes, very superior make. Ex-
amine before purchasing. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Conneil-streets.
IRON SAFES, various sizes. BRA1DLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’ Connell streets.
APANESE BLINDS, for Veraadahs, 8 x 8.11s;
‘9x8,13s; 10 x 8,15a. BRADLEY, NEW ION,
and LAMB.
S'
TEINWAY NEW YORKPYANOS, the FINEST
in the world. A SHIPMENT just landed.
IPP-S CELEBRATED PIANOS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB
have received
another LARGE SHIPMENT
R. LIPP and SONS’ celebrated PIANOFORTES
direct from the Makers, comprising TALL
ORANDS LITTLE UPRIGHT GRAN DS, SA-
LOON GRANDS, VERY HANDSOME and of the
HIGHEST CLASS FINISH,
WALNUT and BLACK GOLD.
WE HAVE NOW THE LARGEST STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA OF
LIPP’S PIANOS
TO SELECT FROM.
WE INVITE INSPECTION.
FOR PRIVATE SALE AT EXTREMELY LOW
PRICES.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Pianoforte Importers,
Q’QoooeU and Spring itreeti.
URNITURB SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
H
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS, and
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS. Bradley, New-
ton and Lamb, Furniture Importers, Spring and
O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Drawing-room suites, m exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
Inspection.
WAT.L CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
NOVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
F a ¥i
fcAMB,
JRNITURE.—THE
THE COLONY. £
i O’CcnwelUtreet,
LARGEST STOCK in
BRADLEY, NEWTON, i
, and
SOCIAL.
Several persons informed us at St. Vin-
cent’s Hall that “ there’s a great many handsome
dresses here,” and " there are some rather pretty
girls in the room,” and “it’s very warm to-night,
and told us of a number of other palpable circum-
stances they had noticed. All this information
was perfectly accurate, but not particularly valu-
able, as we'had observed the same things our-
selves, and the news, there ore, didn t strike us
with any sense of novelty. But it was quite a
novelty to see no fancy dress. St. Vincent s has
been for so many years a Held for the display or
eccentric dress—or undress, as the case might be,
that it hardly looked like the same old ball; and
the absence of so many usual laces from the scene
suggested the idea that the absent ones had only
one dress, a fancy one, and ns they were not al-
lowed to wear that, they couldn’t come, ihc
change was regarded as a Judicious one: and,
though it might have kept a few away, they wore
not a great loss, while more desirables tilled their
place. So, socially, the ball was better than
before; numerically, it was smaller, the at-
tendance being about 000; but the dancers
did not mind that, and there was still
a good prollt made. His Excellency did not
appear, but a party trom his establishment
did, lots of M’s.P. added a grace, or other-
wise, to the scene, according to the measure of
fitness for ballroom ornamentation with which
Nature had gifted them; and the military were
there—on whom damsels dote. Four masters of
ceremonies had their time tilled with nearly 20 sets
each, and Messrs. W. H. McCarthy and A. J. Bt ady
really exerted themselves and kept everything
smooth. Middle-aged gentlemen puffed clouds in
the smoke-room, and a'lot of young parties could
always be seen loaning ovor the gallory above, In
pairs of assorted sexes. Mrs. J. E. Redmond never
looked better, the masses of her thick blonde hair
framed a face where the glow of health and happi-
ness made brighter still what Nature had made
charming. She wore a trained white satin, decked
with lace of the significant orange-blossom, Her
darker sister, Miss Dalton, wore a tine white
broche the low neck edged with berries and
silver leaves, no train. No one could miss a
conspicuously handsome costume of golden-orange
satin bodice and tails, ovor a black satin skirt quite
plain but peifect in taste; it was worn by a North
Kingston girl. Mrs. Riley, the songstress, wore a
beautiful soft cream broche and cardinal flowers.
Two fair sisters wore costumes alike, of ruby
velvet and light pink, and were deft dancers. A
slender lady wore an exquisitely tasteful attire-
white net over satin corsage, waterfall, skirt in
small kilted flounces and the front covered with
diagonal rows of line cream lace, natural flowers
at throat. Miss Richards wore light blue and car-
dinal waist bolt; MissHancock, a Balmain brunette,
a lavender broche in pleats: Mrs. Mark Williamson,
a pretty blue satin and white lace; Miss Ruby
Butcher a pretty white and pink silk, and cheek
roses- and Miss O Connor, a very excellent cardinal
satin and cream. Floating round to the sweet
Mvosntis strains came a maiden very fair to see, in
old gold and cardinal, whom many thought the best
waltzer of the ball—it was Miss Maggie M’Laren.
A sweetlv modest girl, all in white, was not an ex-
perienced dancer, yet several credited her with the
prettiest face there. It was Miss A. Widgory, whose
taller sister, was charming in blue satin and
tarletan with white lace. A bright American lady
wore dark chocolate and white lace; a Newcastle
beauty, a quiet black, whose soberness was at
variance with her sparkling eyes; and a lovely
8urrv Hills girl was also all in black, with coloured
ere welling. Miss K. M’Elhone possessed a comet-
ary brilliance of her own, apart from the aid of
black satin and immense yellow flowers ; Mrs.
Holmes wore a garnet satin bodice cut low, and
black net skirt, looking very well; Miss Reed
simple and nice in cream satin broche with small
lace flounces down the front; and Miss Bourke a
sprightly Melbourne brunette, was wholly garbed
in the eternal "contused strawberry.” Pretty
Miss Gumming coruscated in a cardinal surah with
full side draperies, and cream skirt tri mned with
Vandyke lace. A black velvet trained robe was
edged at the hem with white satin and lace the
white satin front veiled witli glistening jet bead-
work. white satin half sleeves. Mr. J. J. Casey, of
Melbourne, poured ashower of subtle compliments
upon the ear of a dainty brunette in bright crim-
son plush, with garland of flowers dropping over
her shoulder, and old gold skirt draped with hip
paniers of tinselled grenadine. To the undulating
rhythm that rises and falls in the grand Blue Danube
waltz, Miss Grace M‘Donald went sailing bv, a
bewitching blonde, in straw-coloured satin and
the highest spirits; and a dress of splendid ilch
ness was Miss Parry’s raspberry-rod ottoman cord,
over a eream satin skirt quilted in squares with
\lnll of pearls; while Miss Martha Parry wore
niVotl e • beautiful costume of golden cream broche
and cream satin enriched with lace and flowers.
A handsome married lady from 1 almei-sti eet ex-
hibited a peach-blossom broche trimmed with
honiton lace, underskirt of pink and pearls; and a
Park-roft resident, cardinal broche and cream
satin. Mrs. Peters’dress was more splondl l than
describahle—cream broche top, with a skirt ot
alternate perpendicular bands ot old gold and
peacock blue satin, adorned with scintillating
beetle-wings, rose-bunches across one side ot
skirt and trimming of gold lace. A Summei Hill
hidv wore a cos'ly costume ot olive green ottoman
velvet top and chenille fringe trimming, olive
green shirt of surah satin. Mrs. Woodhouse. from
Rofehank-street. was daintily handsome In cream
muHii thickly fringed on the skirt, tabbed bodice,
and*elbow-sleeves with cream chenille bunched
draperies, and lace and tulle on the front skirt, in
addition to these, there were many more ladies who
can’t be described. Some wore types of beauty,
Some exemplars of fashion; but wo have unfor-
tunately mixed them up and can’t separate them.
This it is. not any lack of interest, that necessitates
th.* omission of further details. Perhaps It is
better s?) Yes, however groat the individual
charms might be, we prefer, after all, to keep
them in mind rather as a mass of.aggregated loveli-
ness than venture on a close analysis. So wo let
them dwell lm memory's deep places, a vision of
all that sweet perfection that used to surround our
“deals in the days of youth and innocence, bet ore
became corrugated with care, and when we
used to mis. akc pearl cream for the virgin bloom
efvonth and soft cotton, skillully used, tor
natural symmetry. As usual, the ball could not
be unmitigated enjoyment for everyone-the
charm of such a gathering always depends a good
deal on the company you happen to drop into for
the night-and a per-ccntage of Dan O Connor s
“sweet solaces” had to hold down seats by the
wall It isn t pleasant to do this all night; though
w nn hour or two there’s a lot of enjoyment t )
be got by looking on, and reaping the harvest of a
quiet eye.
• • •
it was a puzzle whether to take a cab or a
Vo the Railway Ball on Thursday, the
T m dom so. People waited and
ra ?fcri Cft tnr it to stop, though it never did,
waited toi ra thor slowly. At
m^ d vth h however, about 400 had assembled, and a
half resulted that was quite a jolly affair in every
„av Fven If grand clothes were not universal,
waj ; v,,,rnnur was There were lots of seats,
o™ partners’and room to whirl them In
oirdaCompagnoni’s best refreshments from start
■ nml the Young Australians, who sang
in fine Style, played a lively pro-
Drei IJ£ of dances Just one detail might have
f II m)reved-the too methodic cloak scheme,
feo .JnXr secretary who conducted the operation
taking tout cloak and giving a ticket for it
ot Pofmrfd ’this highly important and responsible
amount of deadly deliberation which
a marks him out for a career of depait-
C distinction in the future. Though not
he was very sure. You could hand this
ahfe o1flciar y ourc/at; and go lor a short walk or
I ® , in( i then when you came back, even it the
♦inket *wasnT ready, you could rest assured “ the
was being pushed on.” You might not he
far it had been pushed, or
wm Ukelv to be finished, but If you bad
natkmce and implicit faith, yourclpak would come
nut aU right in the end. It was Hko a suburban
t.a n you didn’t know exactly when or where to
Self tor it, but it was sure to turo up somewhere.
Messrs. Rurgess, M'Neil and Stanton were efficaci-
ous in forming' thesets, and Messrs. Boaz, Ohandkr
and Scott, the hon. secs, were very industrious.
Even inside the building, the ceaseless rain could
not be quite disregarded ; spots appeared here and
there on the floor, and drops took the liberty of
merging with your coffee. It was not gratifying
to any ardent youth whose weakness was a tete-a-
tete with her to have his heart’s outpourings in-
terrupted by a thimbleful of water plopping into
his ear, or to see his idol start up with a
delicious shudder at a big water diamond drop-
ping splash on to her programme. A little
dinner was spread for the committee men, as it
was necessary to attack the usual toasts, which
was duly done. Some dancers wore the usual
capricious dresses, and Romp was about the
prettiest. A glistening satin America was ex-
cellent, and another America, whose costume was
not particularly pretty, made up by a face that
was, and by clever dancing. A School-girl wore a
light blue satin, and was of the "bluestocking
sciool; a Drummer was in dark blue, a Huntress
and Gipsy were there, and a Harlequin who had
the look of a summer sunset struck by lightning.
Three young Misses, first straw, second blue, and
third pink satin, danced daintily. A Mephis-
tophelcs, and two or three Dukes and Princes
showed a natural elegance which indicated what
spheres they might have adorned if fate hadn t
put them on the N.S.W. Railways. An entire
crushed strawberry dross on a young brunette was
very handsome indeed, while an attractive married
lady wore a beautiful white satin and nun’s veil-
ing with scarlet flowers. Black satin and sun-
flowers ; demureness in lavender silk ; a pink terry
velvet and satin ; a maroon velvet; a crushed
strawberry and cream (nicely mixed); and a lively
young blonde In white dress and wreath, were all
objects of Interest or idolatry. And if there was a
belle —probably it was a blue belle from
HI tie’s Point, with blonde hair and pink roses.
♦ * *
There’s a ‘-school ” of dancers in Sydney,
who make everything subservient to waltzing.
That’s the only thing they think worth doing, and
it’s "their only stock and store.’’ At the last
Woollahra Assembly, the committee stopped the
music to inform some ladies and gentlemen (it is
hardly necessary to say, very young ones) that
waltzing the Lancers is not considered etiquette.
There are plenty of places where it is done,
certainly ; but they are places that the ladies of the
Woollahra Assembly would not care to know much
about.
♦ ♦ *
Last week, the Rev. Archdeacon of St.
John’s celebrated a pretty wedding at Wagga,
that of Mr. Thos. Rhodes to Miss fanny Hillas,
niece of Dr. Hillas of that town. There was a full
choral service, and the church was decorated with
evergreens, lilies, orange and poach blossoms, in
the happiest manner. The six bridesmaids were
Misses Biddle (Meib.), Rand (Wagga), Hunter
(Wagga), Firth (Marrickville), Ethel Commms
(Springlleld), and Violet Gore (Melb.), four in
cream, and two in blue and pink. The groomsmen
were Messrs. Newman, Bishop, Scott, Weeks,
Murray and Innes. Mr. Broadhurst played the
Wedding March on the organ, and after leaving
the crowded church, the party sat to a tlrst-class
breakfast at Dr. Hillas s residence, and even the
railway station was crowded with friends as t.e
bridegroom escorted his bride away on the h ney-
moon journey—in this case, one of the happiest
Rhodes in life.
9 9 •
Sir Patrick Jennings, as president of the
Sydney Liedertafel, has done a good deal to push
its interests, both monetarily and musically; and
his soinie last week gave it a groat social shove.
To mention all the leading society people who
accepted the invitation of Sir Patrick and Lady
•Jennings to be piesent at the Exhibition on the
26th September, would bo to make a list of. some
500 names, nearly all there; for the fact is, the
president had determined to bring the Liedertatei
under the notice of the leading circles in a way
that wouldn’t be overlooked. So he gave a
grand free entertainment. Free entertainments
are never overlooked. This was really a
grand one (we arc not sticking in a stereotyped
phrase), on a liberal scale: and, though there were
a few little hitches, wo are convinced *hey were
not the fault of the host and hostess. It was not
their fault, and it was not pleasant to notice
that, although invited guests wore specially
asked to be in the building belore nine
o’clock, so as not to interrupt the music,
many observed but a poor punctuality. It
was fully twenty minutes past nine o clock,
before the first musical note was heard, ami num-
bers of carriages kept rolling up long alter that.
When all laid gathered, the assembly was certainly
a brilliant one. His Excellency did not appear,
but Lady Loftus was present—in a rich black sat,in
dress and a pink wreath—and in the crowd were
seen Sir James Martin, Sir John Hay, Sir George
Innes. Sir John Robertson, Sir Wigram Allen,
mostly attended by their families; Commodore
Erskine, Colonel Halkett, the Mayor, Judges Wm-
deyer and Wilkinson, Consuls Kahlo and Do Court,
Hons. Alexander Stuart, W. J. Trickett, J. J.
Casev: Messrs. John Martin, Clibborn, 1. Garrett,
D O’Connor, R. Bloxsome. Unwin, Nathan, Gar-
bett, Hugh George (vice-president), W. Curnow,
Copeland, and many others, including officers.
For the concert, the platform was extended well
into the hall, and Mrs. Hampson’s sounding-board
was erected, but. nevertheless, in some soft
passages of the music not a note got beyond the
fountain. Through Mr. Huonerbein being indis-
posed at the last moment, some dilhculty was
found in the accompanying; Herr Vogvichobliged
bv acting when Mr. Hailewell sang “The Monk,
and Herr Alpen did the rest, but there were some
very long waits in between. Mr. A. H. Gee sang
once Miss Kate Slattery twice, and Madame
Kellermann played, in addition to the concerted
perforrnam cs of the Liedertafel and orchestra.
Four or live items had to be omitted, and th j con-
cert ended at a quarter past 11. when the company
rose and half-an-hour was spent in conversation,
&c 'before they proceeded upstairs to refresh-
ments. A complete and tasty supper-table was
spread by great Smith, of the “City,” and alter
the delicacies had received earnest attention,
dancing commenced below. Costly and stylish
drosses were soon seen whirling all over the floor,
and a chance of seeing them to advantage was
then afforded, and naval uniforms were plentifully
intermingled with them. Theie was plenty of
room, and fortunately so, for the daily increasing
voluminousness of skirts requires almost unlimited
space The sombre raiment of one handsome lady
was so utterly extensive that in one whisk round
it would have covered more ground than an ordi-
nary drawing-room floor. Miss Alice Rees, who,
however, did not dance, wore a lovely pink
striped broche. with white lace on the skirt, and
roses round the neck; and it was buched and
and draped here and there and everywhere so
freely that there really appeared to be more Miss
Rees than there probably was. Six or seven dances
were accomplished, and the hall cleared at 2 a.m.
Sir Patrick and Lady Jennings, who received their
visitors at the door, made every effort to render
the entertainment pleasant to them.
• • •
Last Thursday, the Benedicts of Mudgee
gave a ball in the Town Hall, and the young ladic s
and gentlemen they are so considerately helping
on to a good end danced till live in the morning.
Music and catering were good, and the option of
fancy dress was seized by many. One youth had
the cheek to go as “Ivo Bhgh;” another the
modesty to go naturally, as a Fool. the Mud-
geo Jeames lays his energies out on dress, and
notes that “the ladies'costumes exhibited much
sameness of style and trimming.” We don t sup-
pose he’s alive now. A remark of that sort only
shows the result of a man rushing in where he
ought to fear to tread. He says— ‘ Our informa-
tion was gathered from every conceivable source,
and when necessary we were compelled to intei--
view the wearers themselves. W e 11 bet that, in
the case of the pretty ones, Jeames found it abso-
lutely Impossible to get things right without an
Interview; But what puzzles us, is how he
managed to be so accurate about the colour of the
hose. Was that the result of “interviewing,” or
knowledge derived from some other conceivable
povjfce
The bachelors of Orange invited their
friends toja plain and fany dress ball on 27th Sept.,
and nearly two hundred responded in person.
Stewards were attentive, music was by a fine
quartet, and the ladies appeared in great force and
fancy, outnumbering the gentlemen, and present-
ing an overwhelming array of dress. Of the
married ladies, Mrs. Caro, of Dubbo, shone tore-
most in cardinal and cream lace, together with
Mrs. Kenna, very rcchcrcM in pink, cream, and lace.
Mesdames Elwin, Crowley, T. Keenan, and Lane
also added attractiveness./ The single ladies made
one wonder how they manage to keep single at all,
with such faces, laces, and graces. All had charms
of their own, but as one star dittereth from another
in glory, perhaps we may be justified in saying
that Miss Whipple in white, and Miss Teale, m
white brocade, were the most particularly bright
evening stars in the Orange firmament last Thurs-
day. Miss M'Evoy in black and crushed straw-
berry, Miss Stabbach in sky-blue, Miss Leo in pale
blue, a brunette in ivory, the ladies from Clifton
Grove chartping as usual, were each and all sources
of as much danger to the bachelors as delight. At
half-past four the twenty-four dances and several
extras were done, and the girls hurried home, not
quite sure which they would rather—the bachelors
to remain so, and give them parties, or not to
remain bachelors but give away themselves. And
each Orange girl resolved to work things round the
way it best suited her.
• • •
Despite the unfavourable weather, some
80 guests accepted the invitation of Mr. and Mrs.
S. W. Young to celebrate the twelfth anniversary
of their wedding day at North Shore. The medical
profession was well represented. Programme of
twenty-five dances was added to continually till
nearly dawn, and the youth and beauty enjoyed
itself much. The hostess wore moss-green velvet
bodice and train, over pale blue satin skirt,
trimmed with iridescent beads, hair fastened on
top with diamond pins. A doctor’s daughter from
Hobart was prettily graceful in pale blue and large
lilies. Two fair sisters from Upper Fort-street
were stylish, one in crushed strawberry and gigan-
tic blush roses, the other in white satin and otto-
man brocade. A tall lady from Macquarie-street
wore black and sunflowers; and a favourite North
Shore belle, white and cardinal ; two Kedmyre
sisters were admirable, and a sweet little songstress
from Potts, Point was very charming in pale pink.
* * * *
Miss Adele Cohen, of Parkes, wore satin a
few days ago for Mr. Arthur Townsend. We hope
she’ll be Adele of joy to him Dance of the
Cootamundra Athletic Club, on Friday, passed off
well; 20 dances, 30 couples there, belle and best
dancer from M’burrah ’Tis said at Darling-
hurst, a well-known solicitor, not exactly a youth,
is to enter the bonds with a widow who already
possesses some half-dozen results from her last
venture Muitland Rowing Club plain and fancy
ball takes placu in the Show Ground pavilion on
the 11th Oct John Hume, of Hughenden (QJ.
advertises that he wants a situation as son-in-law
in a respectable family. What a Hume-rous
vouth I Many papers lately have instituted
•‘social” columns The ruling passion is strong
sometimes. The editor of a Western paper, who
lately faced the altar, rather altered the prayer
book formula, when the clergyman, asked would
he take this woman, &c., by replying promptly
“ We will.”... A pleasant musical and literary re-
union was held at St. Ignatius College, Riverview,
to welcome the new Head of the College, the Very
Kev. Aloysius Sturzo. The band played under Mr.
Hermes ; Herr Alpen conducted the concert; and
farce, recitations, solos, &c., completed the pro-
gramme. A large number of prominent Roman
Catholic citizens and ladies attended.... Sir w. j.
Clarke has agreed t<> become the head ot the Eng-
lish Constitution of Freemasons at Melbourne.....
Lieut. Drake appointed to the Wolverene At
Toowoomba (Q.), the Alpha Club ball was very
good on the 2T>tn September, in the local Assembly
Koom. Herr Kretschmann provided the music....
A capital solrte, In aid of the R.C. Church, was
held at Cudal recently, finishing up with a dance
all through the night....Mr. F. Utz, the Mayor of
Glen Innes, gave a ball to three or four hundred
residents, in his new flour-milJ, on 19tb September.
The relief crew for the Miranda took possession
on Sato rday. Commander W. A. A. Ackland is the
son of a doctor, grandson ot a baronet, and 3b
years old. ..A lady spent half an hour In Hordern s
on Friday last, examining some blankets, and then
carelessly said to the duke’s son who attended her,
“ I won’t buy anything to-day. I was only looking
over them for a friend.” Youth, slowly and
savagely: “1 don’t think you 11 find ot your
friends in these blankets, ma’am; they re quite
new” The Nelson At Homes, because ol bad
weather, and the Melanesian bazaar, have been
altered to the 10th and 20ch October....At Gun-
dagai, an Oddfellows’ ball and supper took place
on the 20th September, when a number of visiting
officers were present, and speeches were made; and
dancing continued till six In the morning....The
annual ball given by the R.C. bachelors ot this
city will occur about the middle of the month....
The Parramatta Rowing 1 Club bail, postponed to
the 12th October, will take place in the new Town
Hall there, and most complete arrangements are
being made by the committee to make it a good
one. ..Rev Canon Tyrrell's daughter was married
last month at Maitland by "a Morpeth man, to a
Warialda bank manager; six pretty maids, and a
trip North....An invitation ball was given In
Muswellbiook School of Arts to about 70, and the
hall was adorned with quantities ot the white
clematis now in bloom. Programmes by local
printer hardly prize specimens ot typography. A
lovely creature in lavender, a Scone girl In pink,
and a brunette dancer in dark satin and silver
nicknacks, ran closely for belle.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Glebe Football Club Reunion ...... . Oct. ♦
Liedertafol Smoke Night (Prot. Hall).... ■•••Oct. 6
Newtown Private Hall (N. Oddfellows Hall)..Oct. 5
Govt. Printing- Office Picnic (Clontart) Oct. b
Randwick Rices
Fancy Bazaar (Govt.House) •■.•• •• Oct. n
Produce Merchants’ Prot. Assurance Picnic..Oct. 11
Bachelors’ Private Assembly (Nithsdale).. -Oct. id
Parramatta Rowing Club Ball Get. 1/
Redferu Football Club Dinner................ - Oct. Id
Builders and Contractors’ Picnic (Botany).. .Oct. lb
Flower Show and Bazaar (Exhibition). ... Oct. 18
Ivanhoe Assembly Annual Ball (1 own Hall)..Oct. 19
Robt. Burns Lodge Masonic Picnic (Botany)...Oct.
V Notices of all interesting Social Events (pro-
perly authenticated by the names and addresses of
the writers) will be inserted.


New South Wales Sturt Farms.
No. I.
B.KVEHEE-continued from page 15.
In commencing this series of what I hope to make
readable and interesting papers for admirers of
good live stock, I come to the task with a right
§ood will, and, on very many accounts, no small
egree of pleasure; for, in the first place, my
journeyings in search of the necessary pabulum
will bring me alongside a great number of old and
kind friends, whose idiosyncracles are kindred to
my own, and I shall And at some of our oldest
establishments new importations of horses, if not
of horned cattle, which have been added to the
respective studs since last I made a pilgrimage
among New South Wales breeders. Besides, the
extension of railways into the far interior has,
during the last couple of years, brought Sydney
within easy reach of large districts which before-
time required considerable time to reach by coach,
under more or less difficulty, and over the worst
conceivable roads; so that I hope, now, to find ray
way into the rich pastures of New England and
Liverpool Plains, and be able to get back within
the small space of time I am likely to have all at
once at my command. There have not, it Is true,
been any great additions to our New South
Wales stud herds of Durhams, Devons, and
Herefords, while Clydesdale has been away
from work. Seeing that the late rulers of the
colony thought fit, in their wisdom, to close our
ports against all cattle from Europe and America,
and, so far, the Stuart Ministry have not been in a
position to attend to this minor item of legisla-
tion, 1 may here express a hope that when the
coming Land Bill shall have been settled, the ab-
surd interdict on first-class stock will become
matter of history. However, I’m getting a bit
astray from what should be my subject, and I will
at once make a start among the studs.
Being tor a flying trip to the Hunter, a week or
two back, I was invited by my old friend, Mr.
Frank Reynolds, to spend a day with him at his
new home of Qlendara, on the Paterson, and have
a look through the Tocal and Duninald stud
celebrities; and I need not say more than once,
either, that I jumped at the chance, or that 1 was
made right welcome. Since I was on the Paterson,
now nigh two years ago, the homestead of Glen-
dara has been formed, and occupied, on a block of
what was formerly Church and School lands,
purchased by the Reynolds Family some ten
years ago. The farm is five hundred acres
in extent, lying between the estates of Duni-
nald and Tocal—from the former of which it is
separated by the Paterson River, and from the
latter by the Maitland-Paterson high road; and it
is not too much to say that the site chosen by Mr.
Frank Reynolds to bull 1 on is one of the prettiest
on the river. Many of my readers at a distance
will realise this, when I tell them th. t the new
house is on the highest spot about that part of the
river banks, and directly opposite Stradbroke,
formerly the estate of the late speaker Arnold,
and now occupied by his widow and family. Just
now, the country about there is looking positively
grand—such, indeed, as I never saw it previously
during more than sixteen years I have been pay-
ing personal visits there, and seeing it in its best
and worst garbs. Coming out of Maitland, up the
hill past Bolwarra, the look up the valley of the
Hunter, down to and past Morpeth, is simply mag-
nificent; while, from thence right along to the Pa-
terson township, the paddocks are just like great
English meadows of x-ycgrass and Dutch clover,
and other grasses not indigenous to our
Australian soil. At any rate, 1 never saw
the famed western plains of Victoria—even
Colac—look richer for feed than the banks of the
Paterson do now. Then the course of the river, as
it winds along the valley to join the Hunter, isjust
now marked out by half a dozen various shades of
beautiful green foliage—from the willows, all in
full leaf, to the most pronounced dark "Lincoln,”
“Rifle,” and almost “Black-watch” of the “she-
oak” and “ native cherry”—of which latter, by the
bye, the fruit does make the most “ supernacular”
just reached the hospitable roof-tree in time
to escape one of the heaviest storms of thunder,
lightning, and rain that I have seen for some time,
the night being pitch-dark-somuchso, that when
one got out of the buggy and had found the
paddock gate, the buggy was not flndable until the
next flash of lightning made it visible to the naked
eye; and as the nocturnal visitation was only fore-
runner to a couple of very worthy followers next
day, I may at once say that the look through the
paddocks of “white faces” and “all-reds” was only
apologetic. I managed, between whiles, to see the
vearling thoroughbred colts and Allies, now within
a little, one way or t’other, of twelve months old;
had a drive among the foaling as well as the dry
mares, in their respective paddocks ; and made
acquaintance with the foals dropped on or before
September 20, to the number of eleven. Of course
I saw the lords of the harem—all old friends, as are
also most, if not all, the mares in the paddocks;
and before going into particulars of what came
under notice, I may remark, in passing, on the
greatly improved stamp of dams composing the
stud, compared with what were there when I first
saw the C.R. stock, presided over, then, by the
original Cossack and imported New Warrior. In
the meantime, several of the old and least success-
ful strains have been allowed to die out, being
succeeded by highly-bred mares from England,
Tasmania, and elsewhere, possessing the most
fashionable blood known to us; and there are now
In the paddocks a large number of these, with
their daughters, that can hardjy fail of producing
racehorses from the sires now watjng wjtb them.
And commencing with the sires, these are, first,
The Drummer, imported some years back by Mr.
Charles Baldwin, and got by Rataplan, from My
Niece, by Cowl from Vanity, (a daughter of Camel
by Whalebone, and Vat, Avno was from a sister of
Whalebone). Rataplan, as horsey men are aware,
Avas own brother to the renowned sire Stockwell
by The Baron, son of Birdcatcher, from Poco-
hontas, one of the most renoAvned brood mares
England over saw. The Drummer is as desirable-
looking a sire for racehorses as is to be found in
the colony; his stock have turned out very well,
and his own looks, at seventeen, tell their tale of a
rattling constitution, such as one should expect
from the stout lines in his pedigree. Goldsbrough,
who commenced his racing career as The Sylvia
Colt, has been before the public, through his pro-
duce, tor three or four seasons, and each succeed-
ing year he has supplied an increased number of
Avinners in good company. As a racehorse, Golds-
brough Avas all that could have been hoped for
from a son of Fireworks and the Fisherman mare
Avhose dam Avas Juliet by Touchstone, and rvlrose
(Sylvia’s) only other son by Fireworks Avas the
almost nonpareil, Robin Hood, who died on board
of the City of Melbourne in the disastrous storm
of September, 1877. Goldsbrough and Robin Hood
were the first and third foals of Sylvia, and be-
tween them they Avon, among other great races,
the V.R.C. Derby, A.J.C. Metropolitan Stakes
(Goldsbrough, 9.3), A.J.C. Leger (twice), and A.J.C.
Queen’s Plate, 3 miles. The present season has
opened auspiciously for the C.R. brand, which
has already the following winners to credit:—The
crack two-year-olds, King’s Own, and Honeydew,
Souvenir, Tinderbox, Mileta, Hope, Carmen, Lord
of the Lake, &c., by Goldsbrough; while The
Drummer boasts Masquerade, Sloth, and Silver
Arrow; and the much regretted Kelpie, Golds-
brough’s grandsire, is Avell among Avinning sires
Avith The Gem, Albert Victor, Eva, Gladiator,
Ascot, Coolabah, and many others. The third
occupant of the Tocal boxes. Struck Gold, was
imported by Mr. G. S. Yeo, a few years back, and
has, probably, as line a pedigree for Avinning
strains in good combination as is to bo found any-
where. Being by The Miner, son of Rataplan, he
is on his sire’s side nearly related to The Drummer,
already described; and, through his dam, Whinnie,
he halls from Ion and Cain, Cossack and Hetman
Platoff, and last, though not least, SAveetmeat,
Gladiator and Partisan. This pedigree bristles
Avith good horses right through, and it is recorded
that The Miner was the sole conqueror of Blair
Athol. The Tocal sires all look in great health,
and, for a leading desideratum in a horse to breed
from, commend me to their excellent tempers.
The Aveaners must have next place—those young-
sters Avhich will probably be sold by one of our
Sydney auctioneers during the A.J.C. St. Leger
meeting next Easter; and of them in globo it may
safely be predicated that they are as good a “ crop’’
as the stud ever turned out, and, so far as my eye
carries me back. I think they are of greater size
than those of former years. Being not long
through the strangles, Avhich this time was excep-
tionally severe, some of the lots are not looking
as pink as they might and Avould have looked
under other circumstances; but Johnny Kidd and
his assistants are hard at work, and us the former
is a Avorthy follower of his father, who filled the
role of stud groom at Tocal tor over thirty years,
everything will be done to bring each animal
to the sale ring in the best of fettle. In
fiving the list of this high-bred lot,
shall not now pick out any as having
particularsuperiority over others, because so much
alteration takes place; but it needs no conjuror to
tell that there are many among them of great
family prestige on our turf. There are thirteen
colts and eignt Allies—nine of the former being by
Goldsbrough, the ; emaining four by The Drummer,
and the fillies are divided into five Goldsbroughs,
trvo Kel pies, and one Drummer. The Goldsbroug h
colts may bu put down as follows:—A brown from
Thirza (Wallangra’s dam), a brown from Imported
Powder, a bay from Titania, a bay from Lady
Sophia (daughter of Hamlet and Lady Hilda 1 , a bay
from Merrythought (Mountebank’s dam), a bay
from Emery (Latona’s dam), a brown from Young
Emily (Trevallyn’s dam), a bay from Dolly Varden
(Carmen’s dam), and a bay from Rosalie (dam of
Gonzago). The Drummer has a bay colt from
Camelia (sister to Baronet), a bay from Silence by
New Warrior, a bay from Crinoline (Kanaka's dam),
and a chestnut from Empress. The Allies consist
of chestnuts by Kelpie from Hope (dam of Coolabah
and Hope), and The Thorn (dam of Ascot), one
brown by The Drummer from Paradigm, and
Goldsbrough’s quintette of daughters, which are
a brown from Mai itana (dam of Hilarious and
Kaipara), a bay from Colima, a brorvn from Mo-
desty (dam of Galata and Medora), with a brace of
chestnuts from Melody (dam of The Broker) and
Lady Jette (by Kingston). These are the year-
lings, about Avhich nothing more need at present
be said.
The foals I saw Avere colts by The Drummer,
from Emery, Ida, Baroness, Modesty, and Cori-
sande; Allies by the same sire from Titania,
Colima, and Camelia; one colt by Goldsbrough,
from Rosalie, and Allies by him from Honeymoon
and Emilia. Having remarked upon the splendid
state of the country, I need hardly add that the
mares are looking as Avell as anyone could wish.
I saw many old acquaintances Avearing their age
well, especially old Ida, who looks quite youthful,
despite her twenty-two years this birthday, and
that she produced The Pearl, The Spy, and The
Arrow, in 1866-7-8, besides The Gem (Avlnner
o: the late Metropolitan Stakes.) Although so
successful a brood mare in producing Avinners, her
stuck have never realized big prices as youngsters,
Avhich I can’t understand. Her this year’s foal, by
The Drummer, is apparently a very good one,
though I don't pretend to judgmeut of young foals.
I saAv the imported Whirlpool, looking Ane; and
some members of the Siveetheart family, such as
Sunbeam, SAveetlips, and Blink Bonny, besides
Powder, and most of the dams I have mentioned
above; and the following mares from other studs,
on a A’isit:—In Goldsbrough’s paddock: Mr. Smart’s
Ally by King of the Ring—Musidora, and mare by
Wilberforce—Agitation; Mr. Mayo’s Black Swan;
Mr. Dangar s Ave Maria, Vesper, Black Dot, and
Bona; Messrs. A. Coder’s Baroness, T. Cook’s
Vesta, Skuthorpe’s Dynamite, and Chippendall’s
Ethel. To The Drummer : Messrs. M’Quade’s
Nerism and Matilda; Herbert’s Miss Whittier;
Nowlan’s Pride ; Busby’s Aphrodite, Espaguole,
Carissima, Nourmahal, and Hilda; Turner’s Thyra:
and Coder’s Camilla and Bella Donna, besides many
others I forget. So, I Avmd up the blood stock;
and I will add, touching the sires, or one of them,
that Goldsbrough, as ho grows older, see us to
hand doAvn the strong points of himself and Fire-
works in a greater degree than earlier in his stud
days, there being, among his fourteen yearlings,
only two chestnuts.
Within the last tAvelve or eighteen months the
Messrs. Reynolds have added draught stock to
their other breeding industries; and, having
located the imported Clydesdale, Prince of Dairy,
at Duninald, they are collecting a stud of well-
bred mares for his use. I ahvays had a great
liking for this Scotch Prince, from his landing
here as a half-furnished tAvo-year-old; and I haA'e
seldom seen an animal whose Improvement has
been so great and so progressive. His stock, too,
are Just making him a name on the Hunter, where
he has always been at home; and he seems to me
a true type of the high-class Clydesdale. When
looking about the Duninald homestead, I came
across the grand old Clydesdale mare imported
some years back by Mr. A. Bruce, and accredited
as one of the largest prize-winners that ever left
Scotland. Her name I forget; but she will be
remembered as having shed her hoofs shortly after
her arrlA'al here, from a severe attack of fever in
the feet. She has thrown some very fine colts
here, bv Dairy and a Melbourne horse; but when
I sbav her the other day she had a Avoebegone ap-
pearance.
As I’ve already said, the wet Aveather put an
entire stopper on my peregrinations among the
cattle; but in the sheds and boxes at Tocal, William
Kidd, the herdsman, had a number of young
“white-lace” bulls and some heifers, many of
which made their marks so distinctly at the last
Sydney Show, and all of them wonderfully good.
The bulls are from tAvo years, down to nine or ten
months; and the look of them is enough to show
that, in spite of low prices and a slack demand, the
character of the Tocal Herefords has been care-
fully kept up, so that the stud is fully in a position
to answer satisfactorily all demands that must be
made upon it, coeval with improved season? and
an amended Land Bill. That rare old sire, Sir
James, one of the most useful contemporaries of
Young Carlisle, Royal Head, The Captain, and such
like, in this widely celebrated stud Avas there Avith
Dale Tredegar, the latest addition of imported
stock before the ports were closed ; and “ Dale ”
deserves a Avord, if only on account of the
part he avos made to play at the late Shorv
at Sydney. This bull arrived hero Avith un-
exceptionable records from old country show-
grounds, having been often placed first and cham-
pion at Royal and other shows, Avithout ever
suffering defeat, and his appearance hears out his
doings full well, as he is marvellously good both
for quality and shape, with beautiful touch. At
the late shoAv, he stood alone in his class, and the
clever judge, imported for the occasion from
Adelaide, didn’t consider him Avorthy of a first
prize, but gave him a second in his class, and made
a yearling from the same stud beat him for cham-
pionship. Mr. Price, the judge in question,
evidently is not up to the times, and either Avante
a trip to England, or a rc-opcniug of our ports, to
open his eyes to Avhat are considered the ne plus
ultra Herefords of the day. 1 shall have to visit
the C. R. Devons and Herefords at some future
time.
Good Neavs for Hereford Cattle Men.—Our
“ white face” apostles Avili not be sorry to hear
that their favourite breed is finding its Avay over
the sea to distant lands, where the name of the
Australian Hereford has been often spoken of in
terms of praise. Mr. Thomas G. Jones, of San
Francisco, an enthusiast among pure bred live
stock, ships, on this Thursday, to his home in Cali-
fornia, six of those beautiful heifers, Avhich he has
wisely gone to one of our crack studs to select; and
when I say they are G. L. cattle from Abbey
Green, with Oxford Lad, St. Clair Lad, and Fattle
for ancestors, their quality will be taken on trust.
I Avili particularise this pretentious half-dozen in
my next; and, in the meantime, Avlsh Mr. Jones
all good luck Avith his pioneer consignment.
CLYDESDALE.
Sydney, October 3.
Dear Belle,—You may believe the newspapers
when describing Sir Patrick Jennings’ soiree to
the Liedertafel as a brilliant affair, for it really
was such. Generally, you know, one can’t put
much faith in Avhat the papers say of a ball, or
anything of that kind, for they call almost every-
thing a “magnificent” something, or a “brilliant
success.” In the musical part of the entertain-
ment, I thought the Liedertafel were best in the
Bacchanalian Song and Toast, which they gave
with much spirit, and in “ When evening’s twi-
light,” though the soft parts of that lovely song
Avere lost to those at a distance from the platform,
OAving to the bad sound-carrying properties of the
Exhibition Building. This defect didn’t prevent
Mrs. M’Donald (Miss Kate Slattery) from making
her very powerful voice heard. She sang
“ Kathleen Mavourneen ” and “ Robert toi
que j’aime” to Herr Vogrich’s accompaniment.
I have heard Mr. Hallewell to much greater
adA r antage than on this occasion. Madame
Charbonnet-Kellermann played a solo delightfully,
of course; and the orchestra “The Wedding
March,” the overture to the “ Poet and Peasant,”
and the “ March from Tannhauser.” They also
played for the dancing afteiovards. The waits
were so aAvfully long, that avc all began to tremble
lest there should be no time tor dancing; but avc
had our dance, after all. Now, I must tell you
about the dresses, some of which were lovely. I
didn’t see a single doivdy in all that throng. Most
of the elder ladies wore black—Lady Jennings, of
course; her gown was covered with jet. Lady
limes wore a magnificent dress, the bodice and
train were dark claret-coloured velvet, which
looked almost black, over a petticoat of pale pink
brocade. She looked very stately and splendid.
Mrs. Laidley Mort’s gown Avas ruby satin with
gold-coloured poppies. Mrs. Weston’s Avas a most
beautiful dress, wine-coloured velvet bodice and
train, with silver-grey satin petticoat. Mrs. S. A.
Joseph wore black and cream; Mrs. (wife of Pro-
fessor) Smith, black with headdress of Avhite
ostrich plumes; Miss Robertson, cream and pink;
Mrs. Andretv Loughnan, crimson plush or velvet;
Mrs. Prendergast looked very graceful and ele-
gant; she Avore black ottoman or some thick silk,
Avith corsage low, and cut in a point at the back
on shoulders (I noticed that all the Ioav bodices
Avere in V or • heart-shape at the back) ; a
small star flashed prettily in her hair. Mrs.
Charles James Roberts wore Avhite satin,
the skirt trimmed with flowers of crushed
straAvberry covered with lace, knots of crushed
strawberry ribbons here and there. Mrs. Alfred
Bennett’s dress was verv pretty, of pale blue silk,
the bodice and front with floAvered pattern, the
back and train plain silk. Mrs. J. H. Burn’s dress
was of pale lavender broche, trimmed with pale
pink, cream lace flounces and looped ribbons. Mrs.
John Martin wore a rich chocolate brown velvet
and broche—a very handsome dress. Madame
Kellermann’s was of a peculiar shade of red silk,
the bodice and train, the front of the skirt white.
Madame Marius wore white ailk and pearls. A most
beautiful costume of black lace over black silk
was worn by a very handsome young Jewish lady.
She had a necklace of lovely pearls, and a diamond
bracelet. Mrs. M’Donald’s dress was very elabor-
ate, and therefore not easy to describe. The
upper part was of cream with fern pattern in
crimson, skirt maize silk and lace, wreath of lilies
of the valley. Among the young ladies, tAvo of
the prettiest dresses were those of the Misses Neill
(City Bank); one, a brunette, had black lace over old
gold satin; the other, fair, white Indian muslin
with white satin belt. They wore verv high Eliza-
bethan collars, their hair also very high on the
head, and crepd in front; altogether, very nice,
quaint, and picturesque. Another lovely dress
was of cream broche bodice and skirt, the back
from waist of tulle Or net. I noticed particularly,
and admired, a black dress worn by a young lady;
the bodice was all of jet beads, through which an
observant eye could steal some dainty glimpses,
and the skirt Avas airy-looking black net. Two
nieces of the Chief Justice looked very nice indeed
in pure white madras muslin, caught up with
bunches of white flowers and grass; and Miss
Lyons was handsome and spirited as ever in white
broche bodice and skirt, with SavIss zone of ruby
velvet. Miss Gorman’s cream broche was elegant;
and Mrs. W. W. Richardson Avore a charming
amber satin trimmed with Avhite lace and
roses, and was a most graceful dancer.
There Avere several very pretty white dresses,
the bodices and front of skirt silk or satin, the
back of tulle or net. White and pink were the
the colours most favoured. One pink broehe OA er
skirt of plain silk or satin Avas a beautiful dress.
A remarkable costume was a fawn-coloured ribbed
plush, with very long coat-tails lined with pink
over a black satin skirt, bunches of coloured
ribbons fastened at Intervals. A maize-coloured
satin, with black lace flounces, Avas also striking.
Very feAV of the young ladies wore trains, which
was a blessing. I saw one lady Avith a yard
or two of niching torn off hers, and trail-
ing after her All the best dresses were made
with skirts, plain and very full from the waist at
the back, without any pulling. Black lace sleeves
with black dresses. No flowers are Avorn in the
hair by fashionable people, only a comb or orna-
ment of cut-steel. Another observation T made
on Wednesday evening Avas that naval officers all
seem to dance Avell. The waltzing of a young
midshipman (from the Nelson, I think) was a plea-
sure to look at. Very I’cav of the Liedertafel me n
stayed for the dance; perhaps they are not dancing
men. At all events, it was a pity, as the soirde
Avas supposed to be specially for the performing
members, that only such a small number shared
the fun after having Avorked for the enjoyment of
all of us, who didn't work.
On Friday, Ave spent a very pleasant evening at
Dr. Stanley’s, Morven, Double Bay, Avhere there
was an amateur musical and dramatic perform-
ance. There Avere some very good songs by vari-
ous members of the Stanley family and visitors,
and afterwards a farce, “Little Toddlekins,” in
which Mr. Arthur Stanley Avas particularly good
as Robinson BroAvn Smith, and the acting of little
Miss Ethel Stanley, a young lady of the mature
years of tAvelve, quite surprising in such a child.
The stage Avas prettily decorated with festoons of
foliage and flowers, and, considering the wretched
weather on that evening, there were a good many
guests. The applause Avas tremendous; and this
reminds me how exceedingly languid Avas the
clapping at the Liedertafel concert on Wednesday.
I should have preferred to have none rather than
that kind of faint praise.
In the early part of the week I noticed a few
pretty dresses on the Block, but nothing very
remarkable, except, perhaps, a gorgeous costume
of red velvet and satin; bonnet, also, of red velvet
with steel buckle. The Avearor having a bright
complexion and very happy-looking face, made
quite a picture. I also saw a lady who had made a
picture-or, rather, a daub—of herself, for her
cheeks Avere actually smeared with a quite un-
natural red in a most unnatural manner. Her
hair was of a truly Avonderful golden hue. I could
hardly call her make-up a work of art, for it was
by no means artistic. One feels a sort of admira-
tion for a slight touching up when it is done artis-
tically, but this attempt was really too clumsy.
I couldn’t resist the programme for last Saturday
evening’s popular concert at the Protestant Hall;
and, notwithstanding the cold and wet, there Avas a
Amry good attendance. And, really, the programme
was quite an ideal one for a popular concert, and
could not have been better chosen. Tin re were
some excellent glees, songs, and instrumental
music. The glees all went Avell, especially “ By
Celia’s arbour” and “ Sleep, gentle lady.” “ Maiden
fair” (Haydn), a humorous serenade, ani the catch
“Would you know my Celia’s charms,” were very
good. Mrs. Riley sang “For ever and for ever”
and “ At the eastern gate," besides assisting in the
glees—all well. Miss Keane sang “ She wore a
wreath of roses,” but was evidently nervous. Miss
Dora Brown Avas encored for “ The Minstrel Boy.”
Mr. HalleAvell was splendid in "The Diver.” Mr.
Hinchy’s “Alice, where art thou ?” av as Amry sweet,
and encored. Mr. Beaumont Read sang “Doubt
and Faith;” Mr. Malcolm’s piano solos were not
too long, and beautifully played; and a violin solo,
by Herr t raneik, was a treat. Mr. Banks accom-
pan ed, In the absence through Indisposition of Mi'.
Huenerbein; and Mr. T. M. Slattery, M.L. A., wpo
was chairman, annoupcecj fox Messrs. Hallewell
and Huenerbein that the proceeds of next Satur-
day eA’ening’s concert were to be gh r en to the
Packer Fund—a good object. 1 thought it very un-
reasonable in the audience to insist on encores
when the programme Avas such a long one; but
some people are never satlsAed.
Yours,
MAB.
The annual picnic of the officers of the
Raihvay Department was held on Wednesday, 28th
ultimo, at the Sir Joseph Banks, Botany. A motor
and three cars, gaily decorated Avith flags, flowers,
and foliage, left Hunter-street at 10 a.rn. The pic-
nic Avas confined to railway officers and lady friends,
so the tram took no “ fares,” though plenty of
“fairs;” and when a pushing young particle at-
tempted to get aboard coming home, he was
promptly cast forth into outer darkness. Many
envious glances were cast at the gay cars as they
Avent along, the Young Australian Band discours-
ing sweet music on the Avay. On arrival, the mul-
titude tackled loaves and small fishes, and spent
some time in greetings. The annual picnic is a
happy means of bringing the scattered officers
together, who, now that the railways extend from
coastal mountains Avhere the snow is seen to the
arid A r erge of the plains, and from
the Victorian border one way nearly to the Queens-
land border up the other, are carried Avide asunder
in their many duties. But all the officials, even
from the most distant stations, speak English;
most of them can drink “English ” very well, too.
The only ones that speak a foreign tongue are the
officials Avho are supposed to sing out, for the
Information of travellers, the names of suburban
stations. Various amusements Avere provided-
seniors taking to quoits and mild cricket, juniors
to lawn-tennis and dancing. Skating afforded great
display of genius and style. One gentleman Avould
persist in attempting to skate on his knees to the
detriment of his pair of second-best, another on
his elbows and head, while some made “stern”
attempts in other ways. It seems to be imper-
fectly understood by beginners that the feet should
be kept on the floor. Any attempt to flourish them
in the air, either Avith or without putting the head
on the floor, destroys the grace of skating. And it
is unnecessary to get on all fours, even Avhen great
speed is aimed at. Prank Smith served the ban-
quet in capital style; Mr. W. V. Read, who has
been connected Avith the raihvays since their birth,
was chairman, and Mr. Scott, locomotive engineer,
responded to the toast of “ Success to the Railway
Department.” Toasts Avere few, and were
shortened by the modest disappearance of the
industrious secretary to the picnic when his health
was proposed. Sports Avere resumed till four,
when ram drove all into the pavilion, and at six
the wild shriek of the tram gathered all aboard
again. Ladles mustered well, and looked so.
Late Sporting.
Goulburn Settling.—At the general settling,
which followed on Friday evening, over the late
Goulburn races, upwards of £650 was paid away in
prizes. The usual speechifying was indulged in,
and the largest winners were Mr. W. J. Forrester
(£200) and Mr. O. Poplin (£180).
The first batch of the representatives of War-
wick Farm are to leave for Melbourne on Thurs-
day, and the remainder on Monday next; and as
they are all said to be well off on the score of con-
dition, I hope they will render a good account of
themselves.
There being an apparent intention among some
right good sportsmen wo know to revive the so
long apparently moribund amusement of real cross-
country steeplechasing, a movement which will
deserve strong support from the hosts of Skilful
horsemen our colony can boast, we intend in our
next giving a full description of the first event of
what will, we trust, prove a long series. It was our
intention to work out this idea in the present
issue; but the pleasurable duty must stand over
till this day week, it is satisfactory, however, to
be able to say that we have already heard whispers
of the good example set by the coally district being
followed elsewhere.
Up to Tuesday forenoon we had heard of no
appointment having been made in the room of Mr.
Rouse, as starter to the Turf Club, though rumour
Avas busy with a name or tAvo, and now we
believe that Mr. Robert Richards has con-
sented to don the vacant harness.
THE BETTING MARKET.
THE CAULFIELD CUP
has caused a deal of sensation since our last issue,
the uncertain Yately having come with a great
rush, and been backed for all available money up
to 100 to 7, a figure that has been taken and is still
on offer, and he is now a decided first favourite.
Footstep is quoted at 100 to 6, and is very firm at
that price, while the pencillers quote business done
and still on offer as follows:—100 to 4 each v. Re-
covery, Calma, Stockdale; 100 to 3 v. Israelite, De-
lusion, Belmont, and Lesbia.
The Maribyrnong Plate
has not been the “topic” during the week, and
save that there appears a disposition to support
Garfield, very little remains to be told, and prices
are as quoted in our last. On Monday, Garfield was
backed to win big money up to 100 to 8
V.R.C. Derby.
Except that Off Colour is much easier, there is
nothing of any importance to quote. For the
Melbourne Cup,
F.rst Demon still holds the pride of place, and 100
to 9 is the best offer to money. Despot and Le
Grand are at 100 to 7, ami a point longer can be
obtained about either Nicholas or Aide-de-Camp.
Santa Claus is, perhaps, the latest sensation, and
has been accorded a good deal of support, and
backed for a lot of money up to 100 to 6, a price at
which First Water is quoted. Calma is another
that has been well backed up to 100 to 4, and so
have Dukedom (a candidate in the St. Albans
stable) and Recovery. These, prices are still ob-
tainable.
Doubles.
The principal attraction appears to be the Caul-
field and Melbourne Cup double, and a large
amount of business has been attended to at prices
ranging from 1000 to 5 to 3.
Latest Melbourne Items.
Melbourne, Wednesday.
The latest moves in connection with the Mel-
bourne Cup are in favour of Santa Claus, Calma,
and Recovery. Santa Claus did a grand gallop on
Saturday morning, and the same night he was
backed to win about £35,000, at 100 to 3. The same
price is, however, still on offer. Calma was sup-
ported for nearly the same amount, 100 to 4 being
taken at the finish. Recovery was also backed for
several hundreds at 100 to 3, to which pri e Dirk
Hutteraick has receded. Other prices remain un-
altered. Nicholas, Aide-de-Camp, Copra, Ike,
and the two-year-old colts by Piscator out
of Zephyr and Cocoanut arrived on Monday;
Navigator, Waxlight, and Olga on Tuesday. The
latest scratchings are:—For the Caulfield Cup:
Santa Claus, Magnet, Contessina, Silver Arrow,
Waterloo, Jessie, Comet, Maid of the Hills, Chryso-
phase, Le Beau. For the Melbourne Cup: Water-
loo, Le Beau, Maid of the Hills, and Doncaster.
Cracknell sprained his ankle so badly when Queen
Mary fell with him in the Flying Handicap, at
Wyndhara, that it is not probable he will be able
ride at Caulfield. On Monday the first forfeit was
due on the Maribyrnong Plate, with the result
that 43 youngsters are now left in, as follows:—
Real Jam, Jack Daw, Lady Rowena, Invictus,
Jerel, David, Illusion, Concord, Sportive, Falkirk,
Leperello, Second King, The Maid, Antonlette.
Bonne Fortune, Merrimo, Sheela, Sardanapalus,
Venetia, Bohemian, Nepicallina, Gipsy’s Warning,
Lord Exeter, Garfield, Honeydew, Buckingham,
Ion, King’s Own, Cocoanut colt, Zephyr colt, Luna
colt, The Jewel, Superba, lolanthe, (largo, Alicia,
King of Gipsies, Lavington, Helene, Gratitude,
The Broker, and Sandal.
[From our Melbourne Sporting Correspon-
dent.]
Mr. E. P. Wilson’s two colts, Signor and Good-
wood, arrived from Launceston during the week,
and are located at the Laurel Hotel, Flemington.
Signor, who is by King of the Ring, out of Senorita,
is engaged in the V.R.C. Derby. Goodwood, who
is a full brother of Carmen, being by Golds-
brough, out of Dolly Varden, is not in the Maribyr-
nong Plate, for as he was a very late foal his
owner did not care to nominate him, but he is in
the Nursery Handicap at the V.A.T.C. Spring
meeting.
Tothill arrived from Adelaide on Sunday, with
Bis Bis, Sardius, Helene, Gratitude, and Sandal.
Higlnbotham has also put in an appearance from
Ballark with Flyflsher, The Marchioness, Peveril,
and Capri,
By the same boat that brought Tothill hither,
Mr. Joseph Thompson, the popular bookmaker,
returned from Adelaide, ami was warmly con-
gratulated by his numerous friends on the favour-
able issue or bU action against th? Adelaide Ha-
ttag Wwb.


Saturday, Oct. 27,1883.
Patron :
JAMBS WATSON, ESQ.
President :
The Hon. JOHN MARKS, M.L.C.
PIIO(; 11411 ML :
First Race.
ALL YACHTS, exceeding 9 tons, handicapped,
amateur crews and men in charge. Course : From
flagship round boat at Manly, round flagship,
round lightship and Sow and Pigs, and back to
flagship ; a flying start.
Second Race.
ALL YACHTS, not exceeding 9 tons, handi-
capped, amateur crews Course : Same as No. 1;
flying start.
Third Race.
RESIDENTS OF DOUBLE, RU8HCUTTBR,
AND ROSE BAYS, AND W< lOLLAHRA, who
have never won an advertised prize; double
sculls, in light skiffs. Course: Prom Double Bay
Pier round Shark Island, and back to flagship.
Fourth Race.
ALL CANVAS SAILING BOATS, not exceeding
15 feet ; time allowance, one minute per foot ;
amateur crews. Course : From moorings in
Double Bay, round Shark Island, round flagship,
round Clark Island, and back to-flagship.
Fifth Race.
JUNIOR DOUBLE SCULLS, in skiffs : open to
members of rowing clubs. Course : From Double
Bay pier round Clark Island, and back to flagship.
Sixth Race.
ALL HALF-DECKED BOATS ; amateur crews,
not limited ; handicapped ; own cruising sails, fore-
and-aft canvas only. Course : From flagship, round
boat off Manly, roundflagship, round Shark Island,
back to flagship.
Seventh Race.
ALL-COMERS, pulling a pair of sculls, in light
skiffs ; handicapped. Course : From Double Bay
Pier round Shark Island ard back to flagship.
Eighth Race.
OPEN BOATS, 30 feet and upwards ; handi-
capped ; any sails : crew limited to four. First
iinze, trophy ; second prize, trophy. Course :
From flagship round lightship and Sow and Pigs,
round flagship, round Pinchgut, and back to flag-
ship.
Ninth Race.
ALL BOYS, from Wolverene and Vernon, pull-
ing oars in cutters. Course ; From flagship round
Clark Island, and back to flagship.
Tenth Race.
ALL MEN-OF-WAR GIGS. Course-; From flag-
ship, round Clark Island, round flagship, round
Clark Island, and back to flagship.
Eleventh Race.
MAIDEN-FOURS IN STRING-TEST GIGS, for
nembers of rowing clubs. Course : From flagship
•ound Shark Island, back to flagship.
Twelfth Race.
DTNGIES UNDER CANVAS, not exceeding 16
feet in length, 5 feet beam, and 30 inches deep :
amateur crews. Course: From moorings in
Double Bay round Shark Island, round Fort
Denison, round flagship, round Clark Island, and
back to flagship.
Thirteenth Race.
FOR ALL RESIDENT MEMBERS OF PAD-
HNGTON AND WOOLLAHRA CRICKET
1LUBS; in licensed Waterman’s Skiffs, double
culls. Course : From flagship, round Shark Is-
ind, and back to flagship.
Fourteenth Race.
SENIOR DOUBLE SCULLS : open to members
’ Rowing Clubs; in club skiffs. Course : Same
W. S. WILLIAMS, I Hon.
CHARLES SHAW, f Secs.
CRESWELL’S CHOICE SEEDS.
rkN receipt of *1, the following collection of
[I NEW GARDEN SEEDS will be forwarded
Yee by return of post to any part of New South
Vales
loz. Beet (blood red), loz. Borecole or German
Greens, loz. Brocoli, 3oz. Cabbage (early and
late), 3oz. Carrot (3 varieties), loz. Celery, loz.
Cauliflower, loz. Cress (curled), loz. Mustard
(fine white), loz. Lettuce, loz. Parsnip, loz.
Parsley (extra curled), 3oz. Onions (3 varie-
ties), 4oz. Turnip (3 varieties), loz. Savoy,
loz. Spinach, 3oz. Radish (long and turnip), 3
packets Melons (water and rock), I packet
Cucumber, 1 packet Pumpkin, 1 packet
Tomato, 1 packet Vegetable Marrow.
Dne half of above collection, 10s, post free. 13
jackets of choice ass. rted Flower Seeds, suitable
’or present sowing, will be presented with each £1
jost collection of Garden Seeds. Assortments ol
Seeds, containing Peas and Beans, lor transit by
loach, rail, or steamer, for small or large gardens,
from 10s, £1, £3, and £3 3s each. Payments made
by money order or, stamps.
C F CRESWELL, Seed and Plant Merchant,
474 George-street, Sydney.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
Stock, Station, and General Com-
mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce,
EVERY'' Dr. Marstop's New Work
MAN
SHOULD
READ
Describing how sufferer* from
Nervous and Physical Debility,
Mental Decay and all disorders
resulting from Excesses, Indis-
cretions or Overwork, are per.
manently Cured
Without Stomach Medicines.
WEAK, NERVOUS, AND IMPOTENT
MEN RESTORED TO
VIGOR, HEALTH & MANHOOD
Consultation with Physician
and Book FREE. Address—
Marston Remedy Co.,
72 ELIZABETH ST.. S7LHE7
TRY THE
Victim Mine Met!
ONCE TRIED WILL BE USED ALWAYS.
SQLD EVERYWHERE.
Wom an Items
There may be a man in the moon. But
there is a man in the honeymoon.
Parkes is evidently becoming civilized, as
will be seen from the following ad. taken from
a recent issue of a local paper : —“ Challenge.
Miss Mary Carr, of Parkes, will run Miss Maria
B rr, of the same place, 100 yards, for from £1 to
£10 a-side, any time within the next month. Hugo
Westphalen.
Recipe for making the average church
choir soprano. Take 35 lb. of the strongest vanity,
30 lb. of the best jam, a battered hymn-book, 2
f:ood sound lungs and a large voice cracked up
nto 15 separate pieces Blend all with 47 pints of
giggling. Then stir i 1 13 lb. of bitter envy, and
a stick or two of whole spite for seasoning. Hub
a V\ oz. of devotion round your stewpan, boil
the whole for 30 minutes and then strain through
a “hop” hat or a Dolly Vnrden. Garnish well with
freckles, and serve up with a pair of No. 11 boots
and a quart of hot capers.
Solomon (the wise King, not the shy young
man of Sydney) was one day seated by his palace
window when ho noticed two birds on a tree in the
opposite!garden. The King, was such a clever
philologist as to know even the language of birds,
and listened as the bird addressed its mate. “ Do
you see King Solomon over there, my love?”
“ Yes, indeed,” was the answer. “ Well, said the
first speaker, “do you know what I could do, if I
wished ?“ “ No,” she replied ; “ what could you
do ?” “ Why,” he rejoined with a pompous air,
“ with ore stroke of my wing I could crush every
bone in Solomon’s body, and with another stroke
overturn his palace from turret to foundation-
stone.” With proud mien did the mate regard
her valorous husband. Solomon summoned t,he
boastful bird to his presence, and angrily asked
what was the meaning of the absurd braggadocio
he had heard Then the bird winking at the King,
begged his majesty’s pardon. “ Of course,” said
he, “I was only joking. I was only foiling my
wife. She believes everything I tell her.”
The American baldheads were cruelly
crushed lately by a smart theatre manager. John
A Stevens, who will be remembered as having
offended pretty Mary Carlyon by insisting on a
fall-sized Henry V. kiss every night on the stage d
la Rignold, wrote a play in which Maude Granger
was to appear. Maude is suspected of a very beauti-
ful figure. Probably no one would ever have
heard of the play on its merits, seeing it was
singularly devoid of any, had not the astute
Stevens worked up the audience, critics and others,
by a little clever dodgery. First getting a tew letters
in the papers, he then sent round public circulars,
appealing against the verdict of his critics, and
protesting that his play of “Her Second Love”
was not Indecent. Now, the critics hadn’t really
said anything worth notice ..pout it; but stung by
the circular, they at once fell upon Stevens and his
play tooth and nail, and condemned it because it
was indecent : “ enough to bring the blush of
modesty to the cheek of shame itself.” Then all
the dudes flocked to the theatre in a body—they
always do when promised experiments with the
blush of modesty. And the married men went too
—to make sure the naughty thing was really shock-
ing so as not to let their wives come and be annoyed
at -Maude’s naughtiness. For it was understood
Miss Granger was to exhibit herself as nearly in a
state of nature as propriety and policemen would
permit. Her skirt. It was sai .was to be one thin
gauzy fabric, and that torn and slashed a good deal,
with never a petticoat or jersey underneath, while
the stress on the cheek of modesty was to be
specially severe when confronted with the utterly
reckless way in which Maude wore her left shoulder
nude—or Vipaule gauche nue, as the new style is
called And the dudes thought of Mary Anderson’s
flesh-coloured tights, so faithfully made as to fit
each separate toe, and hoped for something oven
more natural. But their disappointment was sad
t. witness. Miss Granger, as Venus, simply wore
a loose dress of white cashmere pleated on the
breast, ordinary sandals, and fleshings of dead-cold
white, made deader by a calcium light. There s
nothing in a loose-robed, white-limbed Venus. It
was a terrible blow to the cofferdam collar crowd.
Thev were disgusted at such inartistic unrealism.
Even tinted tights would have been a little more
natural and improper. But white coashmere—Oh,
Augustus I
Oscar Wilde’s summary of the American
girl is “ a pretty oasis of unreason in a desert of
common sense” — On the Manly steamer. What
are you looking at Jack t I m looking at the
time, Tom.” “ But the young lady doesn’t carry
the time on her ankles.” * Uh, can t you see the
clocks in her stockings? From Thursday s
Sydney Morning Missionary. Two sisters
would go In a gentleman’s family. Hetnaln open
HU Saturday. Address, M. Post Office.” Would they,
indeed? We know two ladies who went fra
gentleman’s family once before. The freckled-
face lady went for the spoons and plate, and the
more interesting one went for the gentleman him-
self And both caused more trouble in that lamily
than a whole nest of “ sojur ants ” could cause at a
Sunday School Teachers’ picnic....* Henry, saida
culchaw’d Mamma, in a certain western city, to her
retired egg-and-tripo-merchant spouse, you have
a voice in the s lection of a minister for our
church, before the next ‘call’ is made, have you
not?” “ Wal, seein' as’ow I’m one of th ed com-
mittee men, I guess I hov,” snorted Henry. I
thought so, ’’replied Mamma, and now, doah, I wish
vou would select a young man with a sad expres-
sion, and long eye-lashes, and a Grecian nose. It
would be such a lovely match for Em ly s particu-
lar style of beauty.” And yet Higinbotham says
religious enthusiasm is dying out . The following
advertisement appears in the Huohenden Ensign
of the 8th ult.:— *’ Wanted a situation as sou-Iu-
law in respectable family. No objection to go a
short distance up the country. Wages no object.
Apply to James Hume, Hughenden. The adver-
tiser is said to be a young man who deals in botanic
beer, and gushes lovingly at tea meetings.
Writes a correspondentThe master
butchers of Glebe Island want to know why the
manager of the Hiverstone slaughter yards holds
nermission to kill on the Sabbath, while an Island
man is run in if he only looks at a bullock ‘ ugly.’ ”
A few years back a very euiious nautical
incident happned on the West Australian coast.
On a bright clear day, with a light lair wind blow-
ing. the pilot at Rottuest caught sijarht ol a vessel
coming in under full sail. His attention was drawn
to another quarter but for a moment, when neither
with the naked eye noi glass could he discover
a trace of the vessel which butn few seconds before
was gliding in on full view. Nor from that day
was the mystery ever solved, as not a trace ot
wreckage or any clue was subsequently found. It
was suggested that the vessel was a missing pearl-
ing brig? that had been scuttled by the crew, and
left under lull sail, they decamping with the booty
in one of the many American vessels met in there
waters, the bandoned vessel slowly making
headway until it ultimateley foundered anu lelt
no trace behind.
“Hough on Rats.”—Clears out rats, mice,
roach s, flies, ants, bed-bugs, beetles, i use*as,
skunks, Jack-rabbits, gophers. Druggists. Mof»08,
Moss & 0o„ Sydney, General Agents.
I “It is notorious,” says Buckle, in his
»• History of Civilisation,” “and the evidence of it
stands recorded in our Parliamentary debates
that every great measure which was carried, every
■great Improvement, every preat step lu reform,
every concession to the popular wishes, was
iStrenuously opposed by the Duke of Wellington,
but became law in spite of his opposition, and
miter his mournful declarations that by such
means the security of England would be seriously
imperilled.” Similarly, the military croaking over
the proposed Channel tunnel scheme.
Bass and Co., the brewers, it seems, turn
out over £2,400,000 worth of pale ale a year. Nearly
all this is sold to bottlers, who are responsible to
the public for the quality of “ Bass bearing their
brands. The largest bottlers in the world are
Foster and Sons, of Brook-street and Marylebone-
road The old raan-a brother of Birkett Foster,
theartist—is dead now. We remember him well.
He used to live with his two sons and Mrs. t. in a
nfghty snug villa in the Kilburn-road. The sons
were so° stout that they were nicknamed m the
neighbourhood “the fat boys in Pickwick. The
■old gentleman, though enormously wealthy, never
•engaged in—what to many would seem—a day s
He got up at eight, had breakfast at
li!o f-nimti started for “biz” at nine, returned at
;bix thned at seven, and went to bed at ten. Out-
wardly, he was grim and taciturn; but he was, in
realltv singularly charitable and benevolent.
Once every year, at the huge establishment in the
Sbl« oTTaLb.e'to the
!'Sp k 8uU‘" “ot.
a ssa, & &
sons reign in his stead, and both have a splendid
collection of their uncle Birkett Foster s water-
colour paintings. But, large as are the Fosters
premises, what are they in comparison to those of
the Qilbeys,the wine merchants ? Independent of
their cellars, which undermine Margaret-street and
a fe w other thoroughfares, they have an enormous
building directly facing the Princess s Theatre,
1 ormerly called the Pantheon, for offices only. The
almost ludicrous proportions their business must
have attained will be understood from
that the Pantheon is a structure more than twice
the size of the Exhibition Building. The Gilbey
Brothers made their money on Ballarat, and
returning immediately to London started their
present enterprise. They are ‘I
people, puritanical in aspect, and the castle
crest which is stamped on their bottles, likewise
is emblazoned on their quiet-looking carrlages. In
the small provincial country towns of Great
Britain the Gilbeys may be said to have almost a
monopoly,
In America, there is an awful increase of
cancer. In 1869, one per cent, of the deaths in
New York were attributable to this terrible
disease. In 1879, 573 persons died of cancer, or
about 3 per cent, of all who died within the year.
In 1880 there were 659 fatal cases of the disease, a
startling 1 increase, and a total greater than that of
the victims of scarlet fever in the year.
In a certain important city up West, no
less than four local youths are employed as ope-
rators and messengers in the telegraph office. Two
are the eons of publicans, one of a commission
agent, and the fourth is the son of a mall con-
tractor. Some of our banks have a rule that
young men shall not be employed In their native
town, or where they have resided for any length
of time. When the present unsettled state of
affairs in Taraatave cools down, our torpedo-
warrior chiefs might wake up to the desirableness
of a similar rule tor “ lightning-dodgers.”,1
During a sitting of the recent Quarter
Sessions, the gentleman behind the spikes, finding
himself in a tight place, called a witness to white-
wash his character. “ What do you know of the
prisoner,” asked the Judge ? “ Yer Washup, he’s
th’ quietest mahn I hev ivir seen —fur an Oirish-
man,” replied the witness. And the accused was
only charged with kicking in the forehead his
aged and feeble mother.
The latest invention of one Professor
Mezzerotf is called tri-nltro-glycerine, which when
placed in the open air will expand to 1300 times its
own size, at the rate of 300,000 feet a minute. The
Professor further says he can take tea and similar
articles from the family table and make explosives
with them more powerful than Italian gunpowder*
the strongest gunpowder there is. This points to
the ultimate extinction of the tyrant by the tea-
pot. Perhaps the Czar will take his in “coffee-
royal.”
The Down and Gumtree has a new poet.
Here is a sample
“ And may we, too, in sweeter songs.
Sing of Jehovah’s power to save,
When all our lisping, stammering tongues
Lie cold, and silent, in the grave.
“A. , Sydney.”
Now, “ A. ,” this is hardly fair on poor William
Cowper, who penned this stanza, with the excep-
tion of a few interpolations by which you have
deformed it, ever so many decades before you, or
even Sladen, sucked your thumbs. The whole
hash, which appeared the other week, is a plaglar-
istic botch, and what no fellow can understand is
why editors allow such trash ever to appear in
type.
“ A hard-up Miner ” thus writes us from
Summer-hill Creek Kditob Bulletin, I came
from Queensland a short time ago, and was told to
try the Ophir gold-diggings. I did so for six
months, and spent £20 in procuring loz. of gold.
I took it to Orange with a view to selling it and
carrying myself along the track. I tried three
persons who had ‘ Gold Bought’written on their
shops, but none of them would buy it. I tried a
bank, with the same result. Some years ago, I
went to Ballarat hard-up—had hardly Idwt. of
gold, but could sell it, and got supper and bed,
work also the next day. Some difference in the
colonies 1 Yet I had to leave Orange with loz. of
gold in my pocket. There are some score miles of
auriferous country alongside of the town, yet this
is the treatment a follow gets.”
The Passionate Lover.
A VICTORIAN INCIDENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O, list to the sorrowful tale I tell
Of Anima Lee and Sempronlus Bell,
Who went to the bottom, and now are in—well —
Who dare say hell ?
Not, I will point, to that fiery chasm,
And say, with a stare,
That an atom is there
Of the primary, quivering, philoprogenitive, hope-
ful, despairing, glad, sad protoplasm.
Then, somewhere on earth, in air, or in sea,
S. Bell's and the ghost of Anima Lee
Are filling the shadowy role which we
Shall fill when free
From hats and boots and the carnal things,
Such as feet and toes,
Or a mouth and a nose,
Or a back without muscles to flutter or flap them
if anyone gave us a spirit’s wings.
O, list to the sorrowful tale I tell—
Young Anima cottoned to young 8. Bell;
And young S. Bell, with his blood in a swell.
Cried “Who will sell
Me a trousseau lor seven-aud-sixpence down ?
For I’m short of cash,
And my next week's hash—
Though I haven’t a penny to meet the expense-
will be hash for two, or another half-crown I
Sempronius found a man who sold
Him a beautiful trousseau of silk and gold,
As new as if only a season old;
So he straightway rolled
His three half-crowns on the counter, and,
With the rich, rare things,
Flew, as with wings,
To Anima’s chateau; but there he discovered the
baker, his rival, had won her hand.
Sempronius Bell then lay down and cried,
And tore the things, and wished he had died;
And then sprang up, and, like lightning, hied
In pursuit of the bride,
And, catching her down on the river bank,
He says, says he,
“ You’ll perish with me;
And, though she screamed “Oh!” he lifted her,
leaped with her, mouth to mouth, nose to nose,
downwards and sank!
Mh BulIiOCK (who has just smashed her ivory fan): “ Now, if 1 were an elephant, 1
alias Fanny* Sharply surely D ycnf Sn “£d“our trunk without being an
elephant ?”
BLUE RIBBON PHILOSOPHY.
“ This life (hie) is full of emptiness” (hie).


THE AUSTRALIAN
Diamond Drill Company.
CONTRACTS will be undertaken by the above
Company to bore any sized holes, vertical or
horizontal, up to
3 INCHES, OR LARGER IF REQUIRED,
to any depth, at a reduction of 35 PER CENT.
BELOW ANY PREVIOUS CHARGE.
The Company, in all cases, will find their own
fuel and water for drilling purposes, and will make
no charge tor loss of diamonds or wear and tear on
plant, and will also provide workmen engineers, &c.
The new duplex barrel. Introduced into the
colony by Mr. J. Coghlan, will be used free of
charge to persons searching for minerals.
Mr. Coglan has every confidence, from his prac-
tical knowledge of the Diamond Drill, that he will
be able to give general satisfaction, as well as quick
despatch to all orders addressed to the
Temporary Cilices, 311 George-street.
JOHN COGHLAN,
General Manager, pro. tern.
Singer’s Sewing Machines.
TURNER & CO.
Are the Recognised Agents of the
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS:
38.6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week.
And no interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
Br BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE “ SINGER,”
TURNER & COMPANY,
353 George-street.
THE ONLY “SINGER.”
Turner and Company,
578 GEORGE STREET.
° R . 1. _N G CLASS
E S,
and
W GEN UlM MS YOUR OWN GAS.
Apply to
D. KBflLY AND CO.,
71 Goulbum-street, Sydney.
Dealers in Portable Gas, Gasaliers, Lamps,
Suld. Comfort, Economy, and Safety,
eely, on behalf of the Patent Portable Gas
Co., had charge of the lighting of the hall and
supper rooms at the Hay Demonstration, and the
lighting of Croydon Station. He undertakes to
teach his customers in three minutes the mode of
lighting.
A liberal discount will be given to storekeepers
on remittances per orders, and goods forwarded
with quick despatch. Orders and remittances to
be sent to the above address. No orders attended
to without remittance.
JTJ _ , LIST OF PRICES:
4 Light Gasalier £3 10
3 do. do 2 10
3 do. do 115
3 Light Brass Table Lamps .. 5 10
1 do. do. do 2 10
Brass Bracket Lamps, burn 16
hours 2 0
Wall Bracket Lamps, do. .. 0 17
Globes and Fittings .. ..05
Fluid, in cases, 8 gallons.. .. 0 2 u^ui.
1 gal. fluid gives a light equal to 12s worth kero-
sene. instructions as to the mode of lighting sent
to clients with despatch of goods.
Goods sent to all parts of the Colonies.
0
0
0 to £2
0
0
0
6
0 each
6 gal.
5 0
EVERY DESCRIPTION OF FISHING TACKLE,
Wholesale and Retail.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE STREET.
*4
DINNER,
fc
o
S
Isa
3?
k.
$ ONE SHILLING.
Gy.
ry
%
w
✓
»
,o° o*
® *
03
n
(-5 13
ffi T )
W «
£ » >
? S3
«
S3
PITT STREET,
NEXT TATTERSALL’S.
All Meals One Slillling?. ”
J. C. GREENFIELD, Proprietor.
A. GORMAN.
Late of the Telegraph Hotel, Inverell,
HAS OPENED THE
‘ ClstreraLd-oa^.,’
Corner of ELIZABETH & PARK Streets,
And which he Intends to keep as a first-class Hotel,
pah,' hopes, by strict attention to Business, to
win « , of their PATRONAGE. V ISItOrS
HOTptS this surpasses most of the leading
VEn-K-v to r ACCOMODATION and every COlf-
tENCE ; and, as it overlooks HYDE PARK, it
“ust necessarily be WELL VENTILATED.
SUITES of ROOMS for FAMILIES,
as per agreement.
HOT and COLD WATER BATHS.
PORTER In Attendance Day and Night.
t NP,s 0 s5?2^5S r Y.t° mention the quality of the
»«hH RIT V EERS ' &c - &0 " as he is, apdal-
for WUm» b n^, not ? d throughout the COLONIES
nothing but the very best.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
**“ THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. 0/£a,t-a.recL
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottied in bond for Ex, H at the Distillery,
uubiin, and consumers may, t refore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ hiskey Doctors.”
vy lieu you ask tor it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule,
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 Park Street,
IMPORTERS
Of
PIANOS,
by every maker
of renown, from
£25 and up-
wards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE
COFFEE PALACE,
231 GEORGE STREET NORTH.
JOHN JOHNSON, Proprietor.
Li AVING opened the above, the Proprietor has
supplied a want long felt in Sydney. The
first floor contains spacious Ladies and Gentle-
men’s Dining and Drawing Rooms, also Single and
Double Bedrooms, replete with every comfort.
A TRIAL IS RESPECTFULLY SOLICITED.
THOMAS MUNRO,
I®'* HERALDIC ARTIST AND ENGRAVER,
PLAIN AND FANCY STATIONER,
10 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
A Large and varied assortment of Letter Books,
Account Books, and all office requisites. Purses,
Albums, Plush Bags, and Reticules; Artists’ Mate-
rials, Photo, and Picture Frames, Illuminated
Scripture and other texts. Birthday, Condolence,
and Memorial Cards.
Agent lor August Huenerbein for Pianos, Or-
gans, and Music. The Engraving workshop being
under my own management, I feel confident in
suiting the public taste.
W 1
'ILCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn shellers
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
&c. &c. &c.
HEBBLEWHITE &CO.
416 GEORGE STREET.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
WIRE WORKERS, 7
W / ISH to call your attention to WIRE GOODS
▼ ▼ we make and have in stock as under
FLOWER STANDS, for holding flowers in pots,
made of iron and wire, handsomely framed and
bronzed, suitable for rooms, halls, balconies, ver-
andahs, and conservatories. Also, WIRE FERN
BASKETS, all sizes and prices.
SIEVES and SCREENS, for screening lime,
gravel, coal, &c., all meshes, from 1 hole to 100
holes to the squares inch.
WIRE LATTICE-WORK, for protection of win-
dows from breakage caused by hail-storms or boys’
throwing stones. Also, WIRE NETTING, all sizes,
from 12 m. to 72 in. wide.
CAGES of every description, for canaries a ad
parrots, singly or in nests, suitable for store-
keepers.
And every description of WIRE WORK made on
the premises.
EASTWAY, BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE-8TREET.
t3?~ Illustrated Catalogues on application.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
FOWLER’S POTTERY and
BRICKWORKS,
OAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREA V LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favourite remedy. We all suffer more
or less from liver complaint, thereby hindering
or ? an8 from tulflliing their functions. Set
the liver in order by taklilg the above remedy, and
heart, lungs, brain, and stomach will unite in
graceful chorus.
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
1 E If your vital forces are
lf ? ou ave a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of coming
liver ’! unw l ual to its work. To
od\ late all these sym ntoms there is no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABRAHAM’S FILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion of
the maladies and ailments attacking the human
frame are really due (o a disordered liver. Set this
organ in order and health returns as if by magic
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are imitations, ask for ABRAHAM’S
PILLS See that each box, by whomsoever sold,
bears the inventor s name and trade mark. The
Labjiatiry,
434 George Street, Sydney.
fTIHE FEDERAL BANK OP AUSTRALIA
T x (Limited)
incorporated under Act of Parliament.
CAPITAL, £1000,000; SUBSCRIBED, £665,000.
rp. rr ™ . DIRECTORS :
W R A - Drodribb, M.L.C., Chairman.
S&t'gssijas,"- F - m p Hum f h “ 1 ''
H, „ I ■J. Y. Mills, Esq., J.P.
Manager ; F. S. Macdermott.
Accountant: John Docker.
Solicitors : Messrs. Robertson, Fisher, and Ralfe.
Temporary Banking House, 357 George-street,
North, with branch at the Haymarket.
andTn Europe* Afrencies throughout the Colonies
In l Grest Plvenon Deposits, and
dolayTo 088 tran8acted without
P. S. MACDERMOTT, Manager.
>
IST* VISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
FOR
CHEAPNESS, FIT, AND WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any
part of the Colony.
Pianos! Pianos! Pianos!
FREE TRADE and NO MONOPOLY.
Live and Let Live, these are Our Mottoes.
It is a well-known fact that the Foundations of
Colossal Fortunes have been established upon the
Profits arising from the SALE OF PIANOS in this
City d uring the past Twenty Years by those
little or no knowledge of the Construction
and Details of the Pianoforte. While giving the
Public the benefit of our Mr. Young’s 25 years’
personal practical experience (5 years in John
Broadwoodland Sons, London, and 20 in N.S.W.),
we will, at the same time, be satisfied with a fair
percentage on the Co-operative Principle, sharing
the Profits with our Customers. We will sell from
P®r cent, less than the same class of Instrument
can be Purchased at any Music Shop in Sydney,
and we will offer nothing for Sale we cannot
guarantee. American Organs at proportionately
low prices. Also a Large Stock of Kohn’s Cele-
brated Austrian Furniture, a single article of
which we are selling at Wholesale Prices.
Come Mid See Our LITTLE BEAUTIES in Wal-
nut and Pull Iron Frame, at £36 cash, Eleswhere
idOmare, or under a Liberal Time Payment Sys-
George E. Young and Co.,
I®“ 2 8 5 PITT STREET,
South of Royal Arcade.
THE HARWOOD
Fibre Chair Seating,
Possessing all the qualities of a perfect seat, viz.:
Strength, Durability, Ease, Beauty, Cleanliness
and Cheapness.
THIS CHAIR SEAT is made from the strongest
known fibres and a perfectly waterproof
cement, and after fifteen years’ constant use, we
can speak positively as to its merits. It cannot
split or check, neither will exposure to sun or rain
affect It.
Awarded Gold Medal at the late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
For RE-SEATING it is unrivalled. In every
house, store and office, are chairs with seats broken.
Any person can re-seat and make as good as new a
chair that is otherwise worthless, at a very trifling
expense.
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE FOR HOME USE.
Agents Wanted in Every District.
From £3 to £5 a week can be made by any smart
man or boy In his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
83 CLARENCE STREET.
GARTON’S HOTEL,
SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
m Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. G. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 345,
I
REGISTERED
A SAFE, certain, and speedy cure for Nervous
and General Debility, and all complaints that
spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia
Nervous Headache, and Toothache, Indigestion
Loss of Appel ite, General Prostration, &c. By its
tonic and soothing effects it at once removes ail
craving for ALCOHOL. By its richness as a Che-
mical hood, it nourishes and gives vigour to the
whole system. Price, 4s. 6d. Sold everywhere, and
bv the Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHERS, 106
Market-street, Sydney. Wholesale Agents—
Elliott Brothers, and B. Prosser & Co.
SHOET HOEN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY. -
Ti E 5 IA . RD I S .u SH0RT HORN BOURBON.-The
JLJ drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOrPNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
14 and 16 Spring Street.
„ Sydney,
Have alw ys in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
E A R T HEN WARE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
PAPERHANGINGSl
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSERY PAPERS.
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, &C.
Imported by
Alexander Borfhw/ck,
381 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &c.
54
&
Atlas Foundry & Engineer-
ing Company,
HT HAY STREET SYDNEY.
Engineers, Boilermakers and Shipbuilders
Iron and Brassfounders, Coppersmiths and
Millwrights.
The above firm are prepared' to undertake con-
tracts for the manufacture of Marine and Station-
ary Engines, Boilers, and Girder Work, Quartz-
crushing, Sawmill, Sheep-washing, Mining, Sugar-
mills, and all other descriptions of Maehinerv. with
latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for metal.
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
6®*“ THE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco of the Age !
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The only Tobacco combining Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Price.
E# Each PLUG is STAMPED with the word
“EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain It.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
Saywell’sTobacco Co., Lin.
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
And can be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse,
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as Its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO.
Registered according to Act of Parliament, to pro-
tect the public against spurious and worthless
imitations.


C °OKT RUMfO?2
IK
:1V
0iEB k
Silt
Prepared according to the directions o i Prof.
E. N. Horsford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED EOR
DYSPEPSIA, HEADACHE. INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA. WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY, &c.
No Danger can Attend its Use.
Nervous Depression from Overwork.
Sluggish Circulation and (Growing Chil-
dren.
, . . Sandusky, O., May 31,1880,
I have used your Acid Phosphate and can pro-
nounce it a very valuable addition. I find it use-
ful and beneficial in nervous dyspepsia, nervous
depression following overwork and anxiety, as well
as the gastric derangements. Where there is
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation, a dull
heavy head, it is of undoubted value. Fast grow-
ing children require this valuable addition.
W. R, PAGE, M.D.
Liver and Kidney Derangements.
T J . ,, Boston, Mass., May 18, 1880.
In regard to the Hereford's Acid Phosphate, I
have used it very extensively, and with the most
remarkable success.
I give it in dyspepsia and in all cases where there
is derangement of the liver and kidneys. With
my patients it has agreed wonderfully.
O. G. GILLEY, M.D,
Nerve Tonic.
A. 8. Carpenter, M,D., Keene, N.H., says :
. Hereford's Acid Phosphate is a valuable medi-
cine. I have taken it myself, and for several
years prescribed it for my patients, when suffering
from indigestion or innervation of the digestive
organs, and always with satisfactory results. It is
a g;ood nerve tonic, and in some cases of morbid
urine, ‘ it acts like a charm,’ producing the desired
result. It is pleasant to the taste, acceptable to the
stomach, and is, in my opinion, an excellent and
valuable compound.”
. Can be borne by the most Sensitive
Stomachs.
Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 1880.
Horsford’s Acid Phosphate, in elegance of com-
position, stands unrivalled. It is pleasant to the
taste, and can be borne by the most sensitive
stomach. Have prescribed it with marked benefit
in indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms an
excellent substitute for lemon juice, and as such
will furnish a refreshing drink for the sick.
A, L. HALL, M.D.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
2o£agric Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
“ If Works like a Charm.”
It is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches Are. It cures
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Braises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Bums, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an internal remedy it tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colic,
Cholera morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Throat, and Dyp-
therla.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL In the house, or on hand for immediate use in
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers in
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported into this country, and have
gained throughout the colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. 1
leather, and the upholstery Is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their finish
BECAUSE they are each and all built under special
instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage builders in America,
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say they abb
best.
American Carriage Emporium,
WTNTARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
BARRON. MOXHAM & CO.,
Sole Agent*.
A Pyrmont parson considers that there
are grave reasons for doubting the accuracy of
the recent analyses of liquor. Well, ho is cer-
tainly in a pretty good place to know. Pyrmont
rum, especially, is famous for its various qualities,
and no one ever thinks of going to the trouble of
analysing it in that cheerful suburb. A whole
street-full of men jumping on their mothers is con-
sidered sufficient, proof of the spirit. Indeed, it
is considerered over-proof.
We have just got the prospectus of the
Sydney Quarterly Magazine which, it appears,
is not “a commercial speculation.” We are glad,
somehow, that it is not a commercial speculation,
since now, no disappointment can possibly even-
tuate. The affair is, it seems, a club, and G. H.
Keid, the Rev. Spicer, Dr. Brereton, Miss Frances
Holden and Mr. Eben Atherstone Jones, are to
write for it. We can’t, quite think who the last
named gentleman is. We have frequently heard
of Jones, but not of Eben Atherstone. Well, now,
all these nice people are going to write for it. The
point is—who’s going to read it ? And this recalls
to our recollection the Half-Crown Wilkins.
What has become of that sweet production—that
gorgeous periodical—that literary air-bubble ? We
hope it is not going bung, like the Jester, just as
we were beginning to like it I
Rockhampton wants a Coffee Palace. They
consider such an Institution would be “ highly ad-
vantageous to the city,” and “would be most
desirable, especially for young men arriving from
Europe, who wish to live cheaply and respectably
while looking for employment.” There is an in-
genuousness about this that is almost painful. We
And a Colonel Sellers-like hopefulness hanging to
it, which even seems to surpass the most surprising
dreams of that astounding visionary. We’ll sup-
pose a Coffee Palace established at Rockhampton,
right in Bast-street, say, facing Boucicault’s Argus
office, whieh, by the way, used to be “ the full and
plenty” restaurant. The young man from Eng-
land, looking for employment, arrives. Being
installed, he goes down to play the role of a beef-
concealer. There are ton plump waitresses. This
bewilders the young man, so that ho gives his
orders wildly, and commands a banquet to be
served that is hopelessly beyond his means. Struck
dumb (after a long voyage) with admiration, he
is detected shovelling stewed chicken into his
waistcoat, and poking a carrot into his eye. That
night ho takes “ Maudlo ” to’the theatre, and the
next day Milly gets his ivory brushes, and Mary
is surreptitiously promised “ that locket up stairs
with auntie’s hair in it.” Three days later, Maudie
“smacks” him in the dining-room for “talking
about her;” while Millie expresses her opinion in
audible terms that he is no gentleman. Appealing, in
despair, to Mary, that lady directly retires into the
pantry, when the head-waiter intimates that they
can’t allow no such conduc’; and, moreover, inti-
mates that he's a keepin’ company with that young
'ooman, and any subsequent attentions on his part
towards the object of his (the waiter’s choice) will
lead to a fistic duello at the back of the washus.
Then the young man in search of employment
proceeds sadly upstairs, puts on as many coats and
trousers as he can, pockets bis tooth-brush and
soap, stuffs his towel in his waistcoat, and glides
away. Later in the day ho is seen exchanging a
seven-guinea ulster for a four-aud-ninepenny
blanket, and that night he slumbers uneasily on
the banks of the Fltzroy, shepherded by an alli-
gator. Coffee Palaces—like ours here, for instance
—are splendid institutions. But we do not—we
hardly know why—especially recommend them to
“youngmen arriving from Europe who wish to
live cheaply and respectably while looking for
employment.”
The N.Y. World (Jay Gould’s paper) said
of Dion Boucicauit that he was mad, penniless, and
then member of a gang of conspirators to murder.
The Dion writes this to the editor :—“ iask you to
withdraw these statements, specifically and
frankly, and trust you will perceive that in urging
you to do this justice to yourself that I am re-
ciprocating the tone of your editorial notice, which
1 deeply regret I cannot accept as reparation.
Yours obediently, Dion BouciCAult, Victoria
Hotel, July 18th.” Truly, trie great man roars
gently as any sucking-dove. If this had been said
about Charles Kean, for instance, there would have
been some fun. With regard to Boucicauit it was
a matter of comment about him, when last in
London, that he associated only with suspected
dynaraitists and invincibles. It is furthermore
said that he has given nearly the whole of his
largo fortune to the National League, and that, in
point of fact,—as, indeed, this proceeding would
seem to imply—his brain is softening. Past 60,
Dion Boucicauit has had, perhaps, as merry a life
as “ they make ’em.” Before the “ Colleen Bawn"
(which the Queen wont-poor thing ! to see nine
times) made him famous and wealthy, he was a
devoted husband. After that— hif !—and he wanted
other worlds(and hearts) to conquer. There are droll
tales told of him and Sothern—however ! Oh, and
talking of Sothern, young “ Lyt.” is about to pro-
ceed to America to “star” in Lord Dundreary-
Of Lytton, a New York paper made the following
cheerful remark :—“ Young Sothern has only in-
herited one thing from his father : and that is his
father’s mistress.” We wonder whether Lytton
Sothern will ask Mr. Fox, like Dion B. did the editor
of the World, to withdraw these statements specifi-
cally dndfrankly," and, if he does, will accept the
withdrawal as a “reparation.”
According to Lord Palmerston, a man
without a grievance is not half a man. But, show
us a town without a grievance, and we will stake
our reputation that no lawyer, parson, or publican
resides in it. The people of Bourke are at present
in sack-cloth and cinders. At the rear of one of
their public-houses a number of noble savages
were drinking beer. A quarrel arose between two
of them—George and Paddy. It arose through
some slighting remarks made by George regarding
the comeliness of one of Paddy’s gins. As Pat was
stone-blind and couldn’t see the drafts drawn by
time, rum, and small-pox on his helpmate's
attractiveness, ho stoutly swore that she was the
most virtuous and beautiful of her sex. Then
George, adopting another line of argument, hit
him over the head with a tent-pole. This annoyed
Paddy a little, so he put his hand in his hair, took
out a knife, and, being instructed by his gin where
to stick it, wedged it snugly in his opponent’s
torso. Then they parted—George tor the
hospital, and Pat for the lock-up. Four
days afterwards the patient was found half a mile
away from the infirmary as dead as Brigham
Young. The doctor said he might have lived,
loved, and loafed for years, but that his system was
built up of hydatid cysts, and that one < f these,
trying to see a little of the world through the hole
made by Paddy's knife, broke up the harmony of
his being. The jury scratched their heads, said the
surgeon's explanation was lucid and satisfactory,
and that Pat would have to grui through the bars
tor manslaughter. Then our old friend, the At-
torney-General, shoved his finger up to the middle
joint in the pie, ordered the charge to be changed
to “ murder ” in the first degree, invited Paddy to
take a trip to Dubbo, sent six policemen to show
him the way, and subpoenaed half Bourke to see
fair play. Now you know why the Bourke people
are disagreeable. They say that digging a knife
into a person who hits you with a tent-pole is
“manslaughter,” while others say'tis “murder.”
Then they add: “ Well, allowing it is murder, why
not try it in Bourke, and have done with it ?”
Rowland Hill lives again in Yooey Taylor,
who has secured penny postage for Parramatta.
Mr. T. is a long way ahead of what Sir Rowland
was, anyhow. He is “ in the butchering. ’
We are sorry to see that the Melbourne
L. V. Gazette is, to s«y the least, disrespectful to
Mr. Dowie. It seems that the £10,003-tabernacle
man preferred another investment for his “siur. ”
and that the Cheroury tabernacle, of which Alick
was pastor, collapsed owing to internal dissensions.
“Dowie, then,” says our contemporary, “started
a conventicle of his own in Fitzroy,” in which
gloi*y shop it seems he managed to convert a police-
man. The Fitzroy Salvation tenement not proving
a “ go,” Dowie announces straightway that he can
heal by the “ laying on of hands,” and once more
hoists out his policeman, who swears and vows to
every word of it. “Dowie” (we quote) “lays his
hand on a broken collar-bone, and straightway it
sots itself and grows together. Not perfectly,
however ; a little lump at the junction shows that
the patient’s faith had wavered at the critical
moment! Dowie touches a cancerous eye, and
instantly the cancer is healed ! ” The rev. gentle-
man has plenty of resources, anyhow. By the
way, it was an unlucky day for Alexander when,
seduced by the Tabernacle-building humo’ rist, he
went away to shepherd him. He had good
times here. A nice house in Victoria-street,
where, seated in his cool library in the
summer time, he was wont to devour water-
melons, and write handbills. He dressed in the best,
reposed on the best, and fed on the very best. If the
poulterer got pensive, Dowie would go and pray
with him; and if the butcher forgot to call, Alick
would trot round to the shop, and sitting himself
on the block, read him a chapter. For Dowie, this
place was. except on certain occasions, a land flow-
ing with milk and honey. All ho had to do was to
have what he called a Bible Christian Service in a
little dance hall twice on Sunday, in the course of
which he consigned his congregation several times
in each seance to eternal damnation. The Bible
Christians that we saw there were chiefly larrikins
and old women. The former used to laugh and
joke, crack nuts and spit the shells about, while
the latter were wont, when not asleep, to weep
copiously and consume snuff out of tin boxes.
What with the “fund” for carrying out the good
work and other trifles, Alick was in it. And now
he’s going through a scooped-out town on the
same lay as Milner. Alas!
Dr. Charles Taylor, medical superinten-
dent of the Parramatta Lunatic Asylum, is dead.
He was appointed to the post by Parkes, whom he
nominated when that distinguished statesman
contested Kiama. Dr. Taylor was a man who
shone excessively in the domestic circle; but, as a
psychological authority, he did not seem to tower
above his medical brethren. But he had much to
contend with in the want of facilities for classify-
ing lunatics in the Parramatta Asy lum. Dr.
Taylor was appointed to his post on September
2nd, 1872, and from the first had a great deal of
trouble over the custody of Bertrand and Kelly—
the former the well-known murderer, of Wynyard
Square, and the latter a gentleman who had first
killed a man, and then sliced him up into portions
convenient for the manufacture of Irish stew. Dr.
Taylor had (rightly or wrongly) an idea that Ber-
trand and Kelly were when in his custody perfectly
sane, and besides allowing them the run of the
Asylum and grounds (practically freedom), he used
to take them out with him on shooting and fishing
excursions on the Parramatta River; and, in addi-
tion, Bertrand was appointed assistant-dispenser,
and, consequently, was for some months in a posi-
tion to have poisoned the entire establishment. This
led to complications with the authorities; and, in
the end, Bertrand was sent back to Darlinghurst—
where he now remains, assisting in the hospital,
and in daiiy expectation of being released. Dr.
Taylor was a bit of a UtUraleur , and wrote several
medical works and brochures. Wo have before us
now, by him, a little Christmas-book for children,
entitled “ The Angel in Disguise.” It is something
In the “Oliver Twist” line, with a medical halo
surrounding it. Here is a specimen of the late
doctor’s style when giving a burlesque of a hospital
doorkeeper:—“ * Come, now 1’ said the doorkeeper,
with evident surprise, and looking down at the
dwarf with one eye closed, * Size ain’t to be reckoned
when you’re dealing ’owdacity. Look at you,
miserable small, but terrible ’owdacious! If 1'was
a ’ard man, I’d roar outfor Bumble, and he’d show
yer how we deals with thorn as the blessed gaigiens
calls ‘ contu-magious.’ But I’ll tell yer what I’ll
do; just say you’re ill, and I’ll come the good Sam
—1 forget the gentleman's other name—over you.
We never send for a doctor for our paupers, till
we give word to the undertaker; and it’s delightful
to watch the ’armony these two professional gents
carried on their mournful duties with. Now, I’ll
proscribe for you just as if you was a full-
blowed, able-bodied pauper as had made bold to be
ill, and come and ventured to ask for some physik.
Here’s oil, the very best cold-drawn. Here's what
the doctor’s ’prentice calls ‘ Horstem Nig.’ That’s
rather a comforting, cordial-kind of mixture for
a night like this, ’specially if you takes it with a
bit of sugar. Here’s Lodnem; here’s Perrysgoric;
here’s luxries of all sorts; and as it’s Christmas
time, why, darn my old gaiters, if I don’t stand a
whole wineglass full of whatever you like to
name! Say the word, and I’ll fill your little skin
out for once in your life!” We think that the late
Dr. Taylor will, when years have flown, be better
remembered by his medical works than by his
fairy tales for children. But then, it must be re-
membered, we do not belong to the medical pro-
fession!
Little Mary.
WAITING.
Such large grey eyes; a tint in which
The lovely rose and lily blended.
He leaned against the Bridge-street pile.
As we on our way past slowly wended.
He had a mild expression, and
His boots were bright and showed no ravages;
His “togs” were trim, and seemed to have
The cachet that is known as “ Savages.”
His gloves wore yellow, sewn with black;
He was a lithe and supple-limbed one;
His tie was gleaming, a ud his hat—
A brand new Piccadilly-brimmed one.
A splendid show of pearl-white teeth,
In perfect order, he could muster;
He wore the kerchief at his breast
That those chaps wear who use a duster.
He patted children on the head,
Divided ’mongsc a bunch a tanner;
He set enquiring strangers riuht—
’Most perfect was his pleasant manner.
He waited till the golden sun
Was just on the meridian trembling.
Why tarry you ?” at length we said,
Our curiosity dissembling.
Quoth he—“ Oh, by yon gleaming orb,
That’s by a fleecy cloud divided,
I swear to linger hither till
My destiny this day’s decided.”
“ What seek you ?” “Oh, a lovely post!
You can’t tell how 1 long to fill it!
Be kind to me, ye gods! I pray,
And let me get—the 1 jogger's billet.”
Little Mary, when but tour.
Would sit all day upon the floor,
And sometimes small tunes hum;
And often she would take a fit,
As, good as gold, she there did sit,
To suck her little thumb.
She sometimes little fancies took
To look into her little book.
And con her A B C;
You’d never, looking all the time,
In ev’ry country, ev’ry clime.
Find one so good as she.
She always, when she got up stairs
At night, crooned out her little prayers,
And prayed for Nell and Ma,
And praVed for Jack, and sister Sue,
And prayed for aunt and uncle, too,
And doubly prayed for “dah.”
A gentle child that knew no sin,
And never dipped her fingers in
The sugar-basin—no!
Nor 'cross the butter dragged her nail,
Nor swam her shoes in Molly’s pail—
She’d scorned to have done so.
Two short years passed on; on knowledge bent
To Public School sweet Mary went;
And then, lo, it did seem
There came, as she at play did range,
A really most peculiar change
Right o’er the happy dream.
She'd sneak, at night, the pantry key,
And eat enough of jam for three.
And lots of pie and fruit;
And then, at early morn, that key
She’d plant, with cheeks all flushed with glee,
In brother Bobby’s boot.
To “thump” all little boys she’d seek,
And oft she’d give her mother “cheek,
And, ’twas her rog’lar rule.
Whene’er she mot a juv’nile ‘ mash,
Who had a little spending cash.
She’d do a “ wag ” from school.
She played at tip-cat in the rain
With ragged boys In their dark lane,
And, one day flung a stone
That copp’d a parson grave and grim
t Ah, sad it is to talk of him!),
Bif! on the “ funny-bone.
Her little book she read no more,
But pored for hours o’er Ouida s lore,
And at cold beef looked glum;
And she was never, never known,
The moment she’d a small bit grown,
To suck her little thumb.
She’s still at school, but just suppose
To moonlight picnics now she goe^
In steamers down the bay,
And doesn’t hesitate to rob
Her sleeping dada of ten bob,
To go and see the play.
She’s up in sums; and oft her sash,
At home, is raised to “spot a mash,
And do a little spoon.
Oh, she can parse, and, so we feel
(We’ve seen her bangs) that really she 11
Be educated soon.
The poor Czar! Now that the Nihilists are leaving him alone, the Life Insurance
Agents make his existence a burthen.


315 George Street,
A few of our undertakings MOST SUCCESS
FULLY carried out, among which will be found
the LARGEST, MOST DIFFICULT, and MOST
RESPONSIBLE events that have taken place since
the opening of this establishment.
His Worship the MAYOR’S PICNIC, for 450, at
Clontarf,
His Worship the MAYOR’S BALL, for 1600, Exhi-
bition Building, at which his Worship, John
HHarris, entertained their R.H.’s PRINCES AL-
BERT and GEORGE, EARL CLANWILLIAM,
and the Officers of the Detached Squadron.
MASONIC BALL. English Constitution, for 1352,
Exhibition Building.
MASONIC BALL, N.S.W. Constitution, at Town
Hall, Sydney.
Visit of their R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Lithgow Valley Mines and Zigzag.
Dinner d la Russe, for 60, in Government Palace
Dining Car while travelling.
Government Refreshment to 16,000 SCHOOL CHIL-
DREN —re Queen’s Statue Demonstration—under
VERY SHORT NOTICE, only receiving the
order at 2.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot at 13.30
p.m. the following day.
Visit of THEIR R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Captain Cook’s Landing, south side
of Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon and refresh-
ment, for 100, under VERY SHORT NOTICE, re-
ceiving order at 9.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot
at 1 p.m. following day.
The LADY MAYORESS’ RECEPTIONS, Town
Hall.
The UNION CLUB BACHELOR’S BALL, at Exht-
bition Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE WINDEYER.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE INNBS.
Dinner «la Russe at St. Paul’s College, for 150 Mem-
bers of the CBURCH OF ENGLAND SYNOD.
Dinner d la Russe to the INTERCOLONIAL RIFLE
TEAMS, Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at HAWKES-
BURY RACES, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at RAND-
WICK RACES, in Grand Stand.
The CONSULAR DINNER, in our new Banquet
Room.
ARMIDALE RAILWAY Demonstrations. Ban
quet for 400; MAYOR’S BALL, 600, same evening
and CITIZEN’S BALL, 500, the following even-
ing.
ALBURY-WODONGA RAILWAY DEMONSTRA-
TION.—Grand Government Banquet for 1016
at A1 bury. Grand Ball, 800, following night.
Children’s feast, 1184, the following afternoon
and evening. Also, Breakfasts, Dinners, Teas,
and Suppers, in Government Dining Car, to
His Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus, the
Ministry, and Ms.P., while travelling to and
from Banquet, &c., &c.
Numerous Banquets and Entertainments by HIS
WORSHIP THE MAYOR at Town Hall, &c.
Numerous Dinners d la Russe in the N.S.W
GOVERNMENT PALACE DINING CAR, whig
travelling by rail, on account of the GOVERN
MENT.
Together with a numerous lot of Private Dinner*-.
Feasts, Weddings, Garden Parties, Balls, Tet
Meetings Land Sales, Suppers, Picnics, Fishlnp
Excursions, &c.
CADET EXAMINATION, SURVEY OFFICE.
IT is hereby notified that an Examination of
Candidates for Employment as Cadets in the
Department of the Surveyor-General will be held
early in November next. The exact date, when
fixed, will be duly notified. Candidates must have
attained the age of 16 years, or they will not be
eligible for examination.
Intending competitors can obtain further in-
formation upon applying by letter to the Surveyor-
General, or personally to the Secretary and
Cashier.
(Signed) P. F. ADAMS,
„ „ Surveyor-General.
Surveyor-General’s Office,
Sydney, 33nd J une, 1883.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
308 GEORGE STREET.
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD S
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
M AG EN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
r u
TED-;
As.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
l he WON RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
orgamse, organise at once, so that everyone can
tniAnm 6 ®? 1 Tobacco like the favourite LION
with '" () whlch combines a very superior quality
HEYDE, TODMAN & CO.,
YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
WOOL SALES, 1883.
MY very numerous constituents, and all in-
terested in the wool trade, will please take
notice that my unrivalled
NEW WAREHOUSE
Darling? Harbour Railway Terminus
Will be READY FOR THIS SEASON, and that I
? » t0 do the fullest justice to the
LARGEST as well as the SMALLEST Clips.
Each lot will be carefully Weighed and Valued
as soon as received, weights and valuations being
submitted to owners so as to hear from them be-
fore sale if necessary.
Owing, now, to the attendance of Foreign
Buyers, our market is equal to the London Market
—a point well worth remembering. Any Bank or
Firm holding liens on wool will, if asked, allow
owners to send their wool to me ; and any For-
warding Agents, or Managers of Railways or
Steam Companies, will receive and forward Wool
or other Produce on my account, and pay carriage
or other expenses.
ALL PROCEEDS OF SALE will be available, as
heretofore, at ANY TIME after sales ; or AD-
VANCES, small or large, made before sales are
effected.
STOCK, TALLOW, HIDES.
GRAIN, SUGAR, and every sort of Produce will
also meet with the greatest possible care.
JOHN BRIDGE.
MORT and CO. (Limited),
WOOL AND GENERAL
PRODUCE BROKERS.
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
Grain and Flour Brokers.
Wool,
LIBERAL ADVANCES
made on
Sheepskins,
Tallow,
Hides, Wheat,
Tin Ore, and
. _ . other Produce
for SALE and SHIPMENT.
Wool Warehouses and Produce Stores.
CIRCULAR QUAY
and
DARLING HARBOUR, SYDNEY.
NOTICE TO WORKMEN.
MR. BLUNT announces that work will com-
mence on his contract,
HAWKESBURY RIVER TO GOSFORD,
on
MONDAY, 34th SEPTEMBER,
when his old workmen are Invited to rally round
him.
MAIN CAMP, GOSFORD.
Gosford is easily reached by steamer from Kinv-
street Wharf, Sydney, daily. Fares, from 3s. to 5s.
By road from Newcastle the distance to Gosford
is 50 miles ; from Maitland to Gosford 00 miles.
The work being in sand and sandstone cuttings
men are guaranteed three years’ continuous work
in tine weather, and no loss of time.
The works are within three hours’ run by steamer
of Sydney, and families will enjoy all the advan-
tages ©f a residence in Sydney, with a cheaper rate
of living.
GOOD WATER and FIREWOOD obtainable at
all points of the works ; and SCHOOLS will be
opened up for families where necessary.
GEORGE BLUNT,
Main Camp, Gosford.
HAWKESBURY RIVER TO GOSFORD,
w
ANTED, MASONS and QUARRYMEN, for
two feet square CULVERTS.
GEORGE BLUNT,
Railway Contractor,
Gosford.
A. & T. PRINGLE & CO.,
269. D
44 MAUKET ST.
SYDNEY,
Importers of
WEIGHING
MACHINES,
AGRICULTURAL
IMPLEMENTS,
AND
MACHINERY.
BROWN & MAY’S
Portable Engines, Saw Benches, Chaff Cutters,
Horse Gear, &c.
miDElSOR HOTEL,
THE FAVOURITE HOTEL IN GOULBURN.
UBLIC NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON k CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 483 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
Or. TWO DOORS NORTH OF OLD SHOP
W. Howard Smith and Sons,
STRUTH’S WHARF and NEW WHARF
(Foot of King Street).
Offices: 43 KING STREET.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Brisbane to Port Mackay and Townsville
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
Buninyong .. 3000 Geelong
1000
1000
1500
Barrabool
Burwah
Cheviot
Derwent
Edina
♦Gabo..
♦Balmain
♦ To arrive.
W. HOWARD SMITH and SONS,
43 King Street, Sydney
Keilawarra ..
Konoowarra
— Leura ..
500 Moreton
400 Rodondo
You Yangs ..
3000
000
500
900
3500
1500
600
1300
700
Kiss^odu'^oii
32 COLLEGE STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
TEETH on the most approved Eng-
lish Principles, Fitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastica-
tion, Natural Appearance, and Cbmfort guaranteed
Stopping, Scaling, and Extractions skilfully
performed.
Bad Legs, Constitutional
Diseases, &c.
MEDICATED VAPOUR BATHS.
For those diseases where noxious drugs adminis-
tered through the stomach impair the constitution
of the unhappy recipient, and in many cases fail to
cure,
FACTS ARE STUBBORN THINGS.
H - w ;, COOPER eradicates the most inveterate
cases of disease, without medicine internally, in
less than a sixth of the time required for success
by any other treatment.
Relief from Rheumatic Pains.
To Mr. Copper,—I can scarcely And words to
thank you for the remarkable cure you have
effected in my case. I have suffered with bad legs
tor over 10 years ; I have tried many doctors, and
taken everything advertised to cure, but I grew
worse, and sick of trying. My age is over 00,1 am
very stout, and, keeping a shop, am compelled to
walk about. My friends advised me to go to you.
I now wish I had gone at flrst—I should not Save
suffered so long, and it would have been pounds in
my pocket. My legs are both healed up, and I am
quite well. If anyone doubts the genuineness of
your treatment, let them come to me, or any of
my friends who knew how I suffered. I may add
I Improved fast from the first day 1 visited you.
* * iiu Mrs. Black,
August 4th, 1883. 317 Elizabeth-street.
To Mr. Cooper.—I wish to make known the bene-
fit of your treatment in my case. I had bad legs
for two years, and could get no relief anywhere •
you cured them in less than a month.
R. T. Eastway (Eastway Brothers),
George-street.
H. W. C. has voluntary testimony that would fill
a newspaper, and he has not been in the colony
twelve months.
•440 CROWN STREET, opposite Reservoir.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH,
On GOLD, VULCANITE, &c., 7
made on the most approved modern principles.
Warranted to com tune fit, comfort, and durability,
with perfectly natural appearance.
All dental operations performed with skill.
Teeth stopped, and extracted painlessly.
Charges sti iotly moderate.
MARSHALL BROTHERS
SURGEON DENTISTS,
IOO Market-street, near Hyde Park.
Best work and best materials only.
DANCING.— Prof. WEST’S Classes. — Private
Lessons, Monday and Thursday mornings ;
afternoon classes, Thursdays. Evening: Beginners,
Mondays, 8 p.m.; Thursdays, 7.30 p.m.; Advanced,
8.30 p.m., at TattersaLTs New Hall, Hunter-street.
Second term now commencing. During present
school holidays there will be time for private
lessons in new waltz, &c. 351 Elizabeth-street.
The Dancing Academy being the largest in
Sydney, there are now vacancies, quarter dating
from entrance.
James Carroll,
FREE SELECTORS’ & MINERS’ LAND
• AGENT,
WENTWORTH HOUSE. CHURCH HILL.
SYDNEY.
MOUSTACHE AND WHISKERS.
Boyd’s Beard KUxir did this, and will do it
on either, bald head or bare face. • Forcea
heavy Moustache in from 2 to I weeks and
never falls, 20,000 yov«g men already wear
1 full beard, having used 1 to 3 pkt’s. No
injury, easily applied, certain in effect.
Packets Is. 6d. cachet for 3s: 6d!, post paid,
sent under cover, free from observation. Address. Frank Donor an
Sole Agent, Box 7So, 6.P.O., Sydney, N.'S-W. *
“WHAT IS A SECRET?”
SOMETHING told to everybody in a whisper.
Please tell all your friends this Secret, that
they will study both “Comfort and Economy” in
having their supply of WOOD and COAL from
NOTTING & CO.,
COAL AND FUEL MERCHANTS,
Cowpeb's Wharf,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO BAY.
W. H. PALING,
350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Pianofortes,
Pianofortes,
Pianofortes.
By the following renowned English, French, and
Erard
Pleyel
Collard & Collard
Broadwood & Sons
Klrkman
Soufleto
Trost & Co.
Lipp & Sohn
erman Makers:—
Aucher
Ronisch
Hundt & Sohn
Bluthner
Steinway
Schiedmayer
Challen & Son
Ecke
Elcke
Paling & Co.
A. Bord
Berden & Co.
Herz
Schwechten
Schwander,
Forster
And numerous other Manufacturers.
ORGANS by Bell & Co., Palace Organ Company;
Waters & Co., Peloubbrt, and others.
Bell & Co’s. Celebrated Organs, besides other
Awards, gained First and Special Prize over all
others at the recent Sydney Exhibition,
HARMONIUMS by Alexander & Co., eto.
A Splendid Stock of MUSIC always on hand.
C0 -’ s PIANOS have taken SEVERAL
PHIZES at the LATE AUSTRALIAN INTER-
NATIONAL EXHIBITIONS.
W . H . Ta LING,
Pianoforte, Organ & Harmonium Galleries,
856 GEGRGB STREET.
|min
ACM
Efiy
CHAMPION
'VPCINK
y~\ I AND
THWSIII
SAW
mills
f L ;• UR
MILLS
ana
ST
FLEMING’S Carriage and Machinery Reposxtort
32 and 33 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY".
MOULTON’S
pmn? 7 .H?-)\T LA * XT P ositiTe] y cured by MOULTON’3
I'KUIi I ILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
wo can prove what we say. There are no failures and n»
rl i'f °m°r mnawroc FRUIT PILLS also cure
oPK-ll , OUiN f S| „l lri!Tent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
1EP&IA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH
regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract cf Fruit).
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to bo.
Solil Everywhere, Price In. 3d,
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
mi
%
D£
mar
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT. —This favourite brand
of Stout selected with great care from the
best of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
To k® Procured everywhere.
CATTELL & CO., Solo Agents.


TO STAND THIS SEASON at MULGRAYE,
near WINDSOR, the imported coaching
stailion,
PERFECTION,
the thoroughbred horse,
TESTATOR,
and the Exmoor pony,
UNCLE TOM.
PERFECTION, a brown horse, 5 years old, stands
17.1 hands high, perfect in symmetry, with grand
action. Bis pedigree is as follows Sire Coker’s
Perfection, g s Warthe’s Perfection, g g s Jackson’s
Perfection, g g g s Catton, g g g g s Bay Rocking-
ham, g g g g g s Grand Conqueror, g g g g g g s
Henderson’s King George. Dam by Old Pheno-
menon (which horse was sold for 800 guineas), g d
by Wink’s Champion. Two half-brothers to Per-
fection were sold for 500 and 800 guineas respec-
tively, when 5 and 3 years old. PERFECTION
took 16 lirst prizes, and was never beaten in a show
ring.
TESTATOR, by the Tester (imp.) out of Rosedale
(imp.), the dam of Kingsdale, winner of the
Hawkesbury Guineas, &c., &c.
UNCLE TOM, winner of first prize at late
Sydney Exhibition, by Sir Thomas (imp.), out of
Pretty Star (imp.) He stands 13 hands high, baa
immense strength, beautiful symmetry, and per-
fect action. Pretty Star’s dam (Starlight) was
champion racing pony in England, having won
over £2000, including a match for £500, and was
never beaten.
Terms—
PERFECTION :
Marcs left in paddock.. .. 8 guineas each.
Mares taken to horse .. ..6 ,, „
TESTATOR 4
UNCLE TOM 3
Good paddocks provided, and every care taken,
without responsibility. As only a limited number
of mares will be taken, early application is neces-
sary.
GEORGE S. YEO.
mO STAND THIS SEASON, at TOCAL,
JL PATERSON, the following Thoroughbred
Horses
THE DRUMMER (imp.) Subscription full.
GOLDSBROUGH,
By Fireworks out of Sylvia, by Fisherman (imp.)
out of Juliet (imp.) by Touchstone. He is Sire of
the following winners Kamllarol, Morpeth,
Hilarious, Galata, Carmen, Empress, Tillemby,
Wheel of Fortune, Sou’ Wester, Mlleta, Kaipara,
Primrose, Lord of the Lake, Townely, King sOwn,
Honeydew, &o., &c.
Terms .. .. .. 15 guineas each mare.
STRUCK GOLD.
r Struck Gold is a beautiful dappled brown,
stands 16 hands, with splendid bone, great strength,
and beautiful symmetry. His pedigree cannot be
surpassed (as he combines the much-prize dstrains
of Birdcatcher, Sweetmeat, and Bay Middleton),
which is as follows By the Miner (the only horse
in England that ever beat the mighty Blair Athol),
out of Wh nnie (dam of Whip, a great performer,
and winner of seven weight-for-age races in one
season), by Pelion, out of Tapioca, by Sweetmeat
(the sire of Macaroni), out of Ellen Middleton
(Wild Dayrell’s dam), by Bay Middleton. The
Miner is by Rataplan (full brother to Stockwell),
out of Manganese, by Irish Birdcatcher, &c.
Struck Gold was placed second to Chester at the
late Intercolonial Show, beating Loup Garou,
Imported Eastley, &c.
Terms : £5 5s. each mare.
Good paddocks for the use of mares, with plenty
of grass and water. Every care taken, but no
responsibility incurred.
Season commences 1st September, 1883, and ends
January 1st, 1884, when all mares must be paid for
and removed.
Mares sent by steamer will be received at Mor-
peth ; by train at West Maitland, on receipt of
reasonable notice. For further particulars, apply to
F. REYNOLDS, Tooal, Paterson,
rTHHE Imported Blood Stallion,
X GRANDMASTER,
(Sire of Sting and Sussex) will Stand at Minimbah
this Season. Terms : Fifteen Guineas per Mare.
Also,
LECTURER,
By Kingston, dam Sappho. Terms Ten Guineas
per mare.
A reduction will be made for three or more
mares, the property of the same owner. Good
paddocks provided, and every cire taken, but no
responsibility. For further particulars, apply to
D. F. MACKAY,
Dulcalmah, Whittingham.
All mares to be removed and paid for by 1st
January, 1884.
The Proprietor will give two Cups, value £2
each, to ho run for at the Northern J.C. Meeting
season 1886-7, for then two-year-olds, the produc
of mares served this season by the above horses
respectively.
THE Draught Horse,
GRAND AUSTRALIAN,
will Stand this Season at Minimbah. Terms: £3 S
per marc. He is 3 years old, bred by Mr. E. Larki
Appin, by Honest Tom, imported ; dam Lady Lii
coin, imported. Ho served 111 mares last sea.-.o
100 of them proved in foal. He is, without exce]
tion, one of the finest horses ever bred in Austral!
Also, the Blood Stallion,
KING OF THE WEST,
by Gemma di Vorgy, from Princess by Little Johi
her dam Tomboy by Marquis from a Camertc
Maro. He was a good performer in the best con
pany, and ran through five seasons, being wonde
fully sound, and of tine constitution. At thn
years old ho won the Mudgee Maiden Plate, boa
ing Novice and Constance; besides running sever
times placed. At Four, won Hawkesbury Tu:
Club Handicap, beating, among others, Stanhop
Ladybird, Jav lin, Burwood, and Viva ; and wi
several times second and third. At live years’ ol
ho won the Hawkesbury Turf Club Handicap, fc
the second time, carrying 7st., beating Stanhop
7st. 91b., Athos, 6st. 71b., Othello, 6st. 111b., Swee
briar, Sir Solomon, and four others. At Randwic
Spring, won Waverley Handicap (7st. 121b.) beatin
Evangeline, Sunbeam, Ladybird, Llama, Viva, an
four others. Won the Stewards’ Cup, at Bathurs
carrying 7st. 81b., beating Blair Athol, Little Kim
and eight others. Won Hawkesbury Sumrm
Handicap (7st. 111b.), beating Wrangler, Priam, an
seven others ; and ran second to Beadsman for tt
Cudjegong Handicap, at Mudgee. The followln
season he did not score a win, but ran unluckib
as he had run on many previous occasions.
Terms : £5 5s. per mare.
Goo ,l ,P.a dd P ck s- Every care taken, but no r«
sponslbility Incurred.
D. F. MACKAY,
Dulcalmah, Whittingham.
TO STAND THIS SEASON, at Duckenfie
near Morpeth—The Thoroughbred Stallh
HENCHMAN
(late Friday), full brother to Robinson Crusoe t
sire of Navigator, by Angler, out of Chrysolii
will serve ten approved maxes, besides his owner
at Thirty Guineas per mare.
Also,
CROWN PRINCE,
by Kelp e, out of Queen’s Head, by Yattendon
out of Gazelle, will serve ten approved mares’
besides his owner’s, ’
at Ten Guineas per mare.
Splendid paddocks, and every care taken of
mares sent to the above horses, but no responsi-
bility incurred.
All mares must be paid for before removal
Season ends on 1st January, 1884. Mares not re-
moved on that date will be charged ten shillings
per week each up to date of removal.
Duckenfleld, September 18tb, 1888?^
THE FOLLOWING STALLIONS will Stand
the ensuing Season at RICHMOND, where
first-class Paddocks will be provided for Mares,
with every care and attention, but without re-
sponsibility
MARIBYRNONG
GRAND FLANEUR
RAPID BAY ..
MOORTHORPE
JULIAN AVENAL
MONMOUTH ..
BBAUCLERC ..
CHILDE HAROLD
A few half-bred Mares will be taken to Beauclerc
at half-price.
Each Horse will be limited to 15 of the public
mares.
All Mares must be paid for and removed by
January 1, 1884.
ANDREW TOWN, Richmond.
YDE8DALES.
'The following Imported Pure Clydesdale STAL-
LIONS will STAND at Richmond the coming
Season, when first-class Paddocks will be provided
for Mares, with every care and attention, but
without responsibility :—
MUIR LAD,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
DAVIE,
Terms—0 Guineas per Mare.
GALLANT SCOTCHMAN,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
Comment on these Horses is unnecessary. They
have proved themselves on all the principal Show
Grounds of the Colony, and their Stock have done
the same, their progeny at six months old selling
at from 50 guineas to lOO guineas each.
All Mares must be paid for and removed by
January 1,1884,
ANDREW TOWN, Richmond.
C
CLYDE LAD.
O STAND THIS SEASON,
at ASHFIBLD, and tra-
vel Cook’s River, George’s
River, Bankstcwn, Liverpool, Parramatta, Baulk-
ham Hills, Ryde, &c. The pure-bred Prize Clydes-
dale Stallion, CLYDE LAD, winner of the second
prize at the Agricultural Society’s Exhibition,
Sydney, In 1883 (as “ Menangle,” see official cata-
logue), against all ages and all owners, and special
prize at Maitland in the same year (being too late
to enter for the ordinary prizes, Clyde Lad is a
rich dark brown, 5 years old, stands 17 hands high
on short legs, and, as a draught horse, is said by
competent judges to be a perfect model. Ho is a
sure foal getter. Pedigree By Muir Lad (imp.),
the champion horse ot the colony ; dam Jess, by
Shakespeare (imp.); g d Diamond, by Major (imp.);
g g d Bess, by Chestnut George (imp.): g g g d
Bonnie Jean (Imp.); Bonnie Jean by Cassill’s Scotch
Champion, sold in Scotland for £1900 when 13 years
old (see Scotch Stud Book, vol. 1, page 103'.
Terms ; 4 Guineas for single mare; liberal allow-
ance for two or more mares. Good paddocks, with
every care, but no responsibility.
Apply to Groom, at Dobroyde,
Ashfleld.
KIRKER, GREER, & CO., DISTILLERS
BELFAST and GLASGOW.
LOCH DHU, very oldest and purest Scotch
Whiskey.
SHAMROCK, very oldest and purest Irish
Whiskey.
Won 4 Gold Medals and Australian Exhibitions.
Government Analyst says; Unusually pure,
mellow, and well-matured.
FROM ALL SPIRIT MERCHANTS.
Agent: G. ADAMS,
119 Pltt-st., Sydney, and Flinders-st., Melbournne
■\T OTICB TO THE TRADE.
NOW LANDING.
Ex GULF of MEXICO—
3 tons Black Curled Horsehair
3 ditto Purified English Feathers
i ditto ditto Eider Down
34 cases Single and Double Bedsteads
44 ditto Single and Double cots.
Ex ANGLO-NORMAN-
54 cases Black and Brass Mounted Half-tester
Bedsteads, new designs
10 bales Fancy Striped Ticking,
Ex MORI ALTA-
83 cases 4-post Bedsteads, all sizes
10 ditto Rowcliffe’s Wove Wire Spring Mat-
10 bales 38-in. Forfar.
Ex G ULF of CARPENTARIA-
10 cases Black and Nickel-plated Bedsteads,
speciality
3 tons Black Curled Hair
4 bales Cotton Ticks
3 ditto Bed Lace.
Ex ONEIDA-
100 oases Walter Haywood’s Wood-seated Chairs
30 ditto Large Rockers, Cano Seats, ditto
30 ditto Grecian Cane seat ditto
20 ditto Nurse Rockers, Cane Seat ditto
10 ditto Wove Wire Spring Mattresses.
Ex SIR WALTER RALEIGH-
87 cases Assorted Bedsteads
00 ditto Austrian Bentwood Chairs
10 ditto EnglishjBcdroom Chairs.
Ex GULF of ST. VINCENT-
30 cases Toilet Glasses
3 tons Curled Hair.
Ex SALAMIS—
74 cases Half-tester Bedsteads
10 ditto Folding Chair Bedsteads
10 bales ot White Cotton Flock.
Ex EYVOR —
730 bales best cleaned Java Kapok.
Ex CYNISCA—
10 cases Black and Gold Bedsteads
15 ditto French Bedsteads
5 ditto Rowclifle’s AVove Wire Mattresses
30 ditto Four-post Iron Bedsteads
10 ditto Children’s Cots.
Ex GLENFINART—
10 bales Feathers
30 ditto Curled Vegetable Fibre
30 cases 3ft. 6in. Stump Bedsteads
40 ditto Bedsteads, all sorts and sizes.
ExIMBERHORNE—
44 cases Bedsteads, lin. and 3in., all sizes.
Ex CEDRIC THE SAXON—
30 cases Austrian Bentwood Chairs.
Ex ALTCAR-
103 packages, consisting of
Wove Wire Mattresses
Bedsteads
Curled Fibre, &c., &c.
Ex CHRISTIANA THOMPSON, to arrivc-
54 cases of Iron Bedsteads
10 ditto Brass ditto.
Ex AIKSHAW, from New York-
150 cases of Chairs.
Ex PHASIS—
73 oases assorted Bedsteads.
Ex HBREWAUD-
IO cases of Nickel-plated H.T. Bedsteads.
The above 18 shipments having been specially
selected and purchased by me for prompt cash
during my recent visit to America and England at
exceedingly low prices, and I can offer you any of
the above goods at less than auction-room prices.
Thanking you for past favours, and soliciting a
continuance of the same,
1 remain.
Yours faithfully,
J. LAWLER,
(308, George-street, Sydney.
jlBBS, BRIGHT & CO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship,
ping and Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO., LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
Principal Agencies :
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON-Head Office : HONGKONG.
J-, C. Goatling and Company (Limited)—Portland Cement.
The Tunnel Portland Cement Company (Limited)—Portland Cement
Gainsborough—Portable Horizontal, and Vertical Engines,
Crossley Brothers (Limited), Manchester—The celebrated “ Otto ” Silent Gas Engines.
Bow, M Lachlan and Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &c., &c.
Thos. Glover and Company, London—Patent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian and Sons—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penyrorsedd Slate Company (Limited) —Bangor Slates.
Boiler Plates, Iron and
Red Cross Preserving Company, Victoria—Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, &c.
De Wendel and Company, Hayange, France—Bar, Bod, and Sheet Iron, Boi
Steel Fencing Wire, &c.
Thos. Perry and Son, Bilston—Fire-resisting Safes.
Drybrough and Co., Edinburgh—Ale.
Brunton and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse.
Thos. N. Hunt —Port Wine.
Dubos Freres, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablis, Sauternes
XT Q COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES.
Jindera S Mm Co WALES ‘~ SCOtt aM Mullaly ’ T ’ Alls °P’ F - J- O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros.,
Victoria.— James Fry and Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
South Australia.— W. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hincks.
INDENTS executed, on the most favourable terms, from all parts of the world. Consignments
of produce received for shipment to London, under liberal advances.
H. P. GREGORY.
H. SHAW SMITH.
S. W. GREGORY.
•a
Engineers & MachineryMenchants
ARB SOLE AGENTS FOR
Fay & Co.’s Woodworking Machinery
Tanito Co.’s Emery Wheels and Machines
Korting’s Injectors
Eclipse Windmills
Sturtevant’s Fans.
Blake’s Brass-lined Special Steam Pumps
A LARGE STOCK OF THE ABOVE ALWAYS IN OUR STORES
as well as all
SAW MILL, PLANING MILL, AND MINING REQUISITES
17 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
TRICYCLES.
JUST ARRIVED, a large shipment of the
celebrated
Excelsior Tricycles,
For Ladles or Gentlemen.
VT Send for lists and TERMS of Payment.
Repairs executed by experienced Coventry
bicycle makers.
BAYLISS, THOMAS & CO., 68 King Street.
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-streel
(OVER PALING’S),
IS NOW OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged by
Mr. B. All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
N.B.—BOYD (OVER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
L. E. HENDERSON, Manager.
THE SMITH AMERICAN ORGAN,
V
No less than 77 landed, at from 12 to 90 Guineas.
The 12-GLJjpA ORGAN, 6 Sri *>'•
The “CONNOISSEUR” ORGAN
sionul Musicians, and for Church, Concert, or Lodge use.
#
The SMITH OllGrANS were awarded the Only First Prilfl
at the Melbourne Exhibition.
Price Lists, for CAt-H or EASA TERMS, on application to the Sole Agents,
IBIKTJCE,
281 GEORGE STREET.
m
COMFORTABLE TEETH
The use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are tbiee kinds, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and lied Silk Thread attached"to
the bottles. That with the Yellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That witn the Green
is invaluable to persons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
gums,decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
drops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never sutler again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the lied is for children’s use.
May be obtained of nil Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against 1 raudulent imitations,
that each Label bears the name, “ Wilcox and
Co„ 339 Oxford-street, London."
am
ASTHMA,COUGH, BRONCHITIS^
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate relief J
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchus
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at iuf“ l
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, nu
them invaluable. as they instantly check u"
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to
a good night. Ate perfectly harmless, and may
smoked by ladies, children, and most
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution—To guard against fraudulent irnitotioni-
see that each box bea/rs the name of “ Wueox om*
Co., 339 OxfordrStrect, London .”


REMEMBER THIS,
IF YOU ARE SICK.
If .you are sick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature in making you well
again when all else fails.
If you are comparatively well, but feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from any other of tno numer-
ous diseases of the stomach or bowels,
it is your own fault if you remain ill,
for
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints.
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to
HOP RITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will find a “Balm
in Gilead ” in the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of all coun-
tries—malarial, epidemic, bilious and in-
termittent fevers—by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, HOP BITTERS
will give you fair skin, rich blood, the
sweetest breath, health, and comfort.
In short, they cure ALL Diseases of
the Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Liver
Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
£500
will he paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in the them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by alow bottlosof
Hop Bitters, costing but a trifle.
Will you let them suffer?
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Billers,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
GRAHA
a
fs
m
TAILOB,
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment,
64.’, late 531, Georgc-street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,—! respectfully beg leave to bring
under your notice lhe superior style and fit of our
Trousers, which Hie cut on the same unerring
principles as those which lave made the name of
Him . Bond-street, ahouiehold word amongst the
leaders ot fashion m the world's metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, i eric, i liemh m either in sitting, riding
or walking : h quire neither footstraps nor braces
fall smoothly over the ho 1, and maintain their
position in every n Unite of the body.
They are di signed to lit I be corpulent as well
the s ight. figure, hih) arc engaged ‘ogive to all the
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial will sullice to establish their claim
on your patronage.
lam, Sir,
Your obedient Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM.
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION,
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT, WEAK-
NESS. &i.
PRICE ~Ss. 6d.
Prepared by A. G. KBBBLEWH1TE, Chemist, kxj.
43 BRSKINE STREET.
Sold by W. H. SOUL, and all CSiemista.
A
BLESSING TO WOMANKIND.
PREVENTS DESTRUCTION TO HEALTH,
AND OFTEN CRIME,
SAFE AND EFFECTUAL.
Sealed particulars free. Address—
PARISIAN IMPORTING COMPANY,
ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Mb. DeCoubcy Bbownb (lato Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent: also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 126 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Department undertaken. Titles a
speciality.— Advt.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief:
a small bottle often cures. Ask for “Arnold’s”
and get it; spurious imitations are sometimes
offered.
Nowhere perhaps has the dentist’s art obtained
such high excellence as in Sydney. Certainly we
are in no sense behind any other city. V isitors to
Sydney might, to test this, visit the establishment
of Messrs. Adolphe Gabriel and Company. 18 Wyn-
yard Square, two doors from Ptahlert s Hotel.
Here the manufacture of every essential in the
Erofession is carried on. At the rear oi the surgery
i a compact little factory where all the requisites
for supplying every dental defect in the human
mouth are made. Messrs. Gabriel and Co. (whose
only address is as above) are always pleased to
show their specimens of artificial teeth to those
interested. There being two firms of the same
name in the Square, patients will oblige by paying
particular attention to the Christian name, Adolphe,
and the number, 18, two doors froiau Plahkrt’s
Hotel— Advt.
Mudville is a thriving, fast-becoming-
known town in Mr. X., one of|the local mag-
nates (he is the chief butcher in Mudville), has for
some time past devoted himself to the vexed
question of who should be appointed poundkeeper.
A point of constitutional law was involved, so
that it was truly a quentia vexata, as the lawyers
would say. It therefore became expedient to hold
a public meeting, at which Mr. X. was appointed a
deputation to proceed to the metropolis, and there
have a “ blow-out ” at the ratepayers’ expense.
The Premier was duly interviewed, and the ques-
tion settled. In recognition of the services, in
this behalf, rendered by Mr. X., a petition, praying
for his appointment as J.P., was sent along, and
the prayei of the petitioners was granted. The
petition was a curiosity, signed by ten ratepayers,
of whom eight were relatives of the appointee,
one the newly-elected poundkeeper, and the other
a cosmopolitan, who readily allixed his signature
on the prospect of “’arf-a-pint.” Upon receipt
of his commission, having been duly sworn in,
Mr, X. suddenly became alive to the fact that he
was a born lawyer. He scorned the suggestion
of the sergeant of Police that he should glance
over the statutes. “ Bless yer ’art,” he said, “ I
can’t see as how I requires it. This ’ere commis-
sion’s enough; and I knows a knuckle o weal
when I sees hit.” Mr. X., of course, seized the
earliest opportunity of adorning the Mudville
bench, on which auspicious occasion he displayed
a genius hitherto unsuspected by his numerous
admirers. He was, at tirst, the only Justice present,
so he had no difficulty in electing himself chair-
man. He distinguished himself, in the first instance,
by heading the cause-list “Thtrsday Orgust the
levcnth, 1883.” Later on, a youth was charged with
larceny. His Worship abused the clerk for enter-
ing a wrong charge. “It should be larrikinism:
who ever heard of larrikinism being called larceny i
Case dismissed. Proceed.” Next on the list was a
lunatic, who was committed to the nearest Lunatic
Asylum. On the warrant of committal being pio-
duced for his signature, his Worship (of course)
signed it in the wrong place, so that it read and
we hereby certify that the said 1 FiUicim X. , J P-,
is a lunatic and not under proper '•are, &c. There
is only one other Justice in the town. He spells
thusly: “ Vordikt to the ballans and cost sum-
mansd;” nor has he ever road the statute law. It
may, therefore, be said that .justice at Mudville is
blind both legally and metaphorically ; and yet
people grumble because of the quibbles of the
written law.
The 8.M. Herald of Monday published
the following advertisement“ Wanted, by a
young girl, situation as general servant (tnewt kept),
in Bowral. Direct M.Z., Foster’s Book Depot,
William-street, Sydney.” This young girl is, evi-
dently, a student of Dickens. She would, doubt-
less. like the cook at the registry office in “ Nicho-
las Nlckleby,” prefer to accept, at a low rate of
wages, the place where “three pious footmen
were expected to improve the moral status by
holy converse with a corresponding number of
women-servants. Naturally, a “ young girl ” (we
deprecate this homely appellation!) who was going
to Bowral would want a “ man kept.” Rather I
Why, who, otherwise, is going to carry her parasol
while she puts on her gloves going to church; and
clean the cruets, and scrub the floors of a morning
while she lies in bed perusing the Family Reader ?
When a young girl gets to Bowral, let us tell you,
she«is somebody. She gives up wearing her uncle’s
boots then, and mashes the store-youth for a pair
of high-heeled balmorals. “Mother's” last years
print is also discarded, and she blooms forth in a
blue-merino hauled aft with a mile or so of
bar string. Listen. There is, nestling amongst
the gigantic grass, whicn covers with its wavy
beauty t <e undulating downs of Central Queens-
land [II I—Ed. B.], a little township called Spring-
sure. Long ago, when we were young and guile-
less, we journeyed thither outside a horse of strong
opinions, in answer to a requisition from several
“ influential citizens ” (headed by the butcher, who
was of a literary turn) to start a newspaper. Being
provided with a pair of store spurs, we pricked
along bravely o’er the plain, until we overtook a
cavalcade of two— a lady and a boy. The former
was attired In a grey riding-habit trimmed with
cherry-coloured ribbons, and under a broad felt
hat exposed to view a face of that peculiar cast
that you long to throw sticks at. This was the
servant of the hotel where we were going. So we
journeyed along together. Her luggage was of
moderate dimensions, being enclosed in a swag
carried on the boy’s crupper; but though sh ) was
poor in baggage, she was rich in conversation, in-
forming us that she had just emigrated from Ber-
mondsey, and she wished she was back, out of “this
ere savage ’ole.” We entered Springsure at broad
noon, and all the inhabitants turned out to witness
our entry. The whole thing was so pointed that
we felt like a travelling peep-show or the advance-
guard of a circus. Cries of “ Ain’t she a stunner ?’ ’
“You’ve come to the right shop, old gal,” were
frequent: while we are bound to admit that obser-
vations respecting ourselves, such as “ Don’t think
much of her cove,” “ Sits a ’orso like a tailor,”
were equally frequent, much to our discomfiture—
though we remember us smiling a smile all the
time that was picturesque in it sickliness. Well,
that girl stayed at the hotel three weeks, at 35s. a
week wages. At the end of that period she pos-
sessed in her own right a line bay mare, the best
side-saddle in the township, four watches, two silk
dresses, sixteen pairs boots, and a sowing-machine.
She wouldn’t do anything in the hotel except lie
on the parlour-couch, and at night sing to the
shearers; and one night she rode away with a
horse-breaker, whose cords and top-boots had
captivated her, and was heard of no-more, bind-
ing the literary ideas of the inhabitants but in an
undeveloped condition, wo rode away, too, a little
later. And we rode away at night, also. It was
such hot weather. And we went very softly, too,
at first. We didn’t wish to awaken the landlord.
Recently, the Princess of Wales sold but-
ton-holes, and Leopold tea, for the erection of a
church at Berlin. And this recalls, forcibly to
our minds a little dialogue in the “ Christinas
Carol,” the most glorious story that ever saw day-
light. It is when the two benevolent gentlemen
come to beg of Scrooge on Christmas Eve. * The
workhouses are in full operation, I believe, ’ said
Scrooge, declining. “ Unfortunately, they are,
replied the gentleman. “ And the treadmill has
not been abolished ?” “ No.” . . . Grim, this,
is it not? But grimmer still a story in the Weekly
Dispatch, of a waman dying of starvation beneath
the workhouse wall; and of the horrible misery in
the Bethnal Green district, and in Whitechapel.
It is not to be expected, though, that when this
grand fete was planned at “the Fisheries” for a
German church, the English poor should be
thought of. Royalty can’,, have time to think of
their own poor, or they wouldn’t let His Serene
Highness the Duke of Teok sell the statuette of the
l«te Prince Consort for “ 50 bob.” £5000 was raised
at the fMe—bah!—“ Take her up gently,” anyhow.
That won’t cost anything.
Another injustice to —Alfred. It cannot be
anything less than a conspiracy. For, ah hough
when in the Clarence River he made, at the Minis-
terial feed on board the Ajax (a.), an address of
surpassing eloquence, we have, notwithstanding
that we have searched through the files of even
the local papers, not been enabled to discern a
trace of it. Fortunately, however, a Member
of our acquaintance who was with the party,
and has kindly furnished us with his notes
of the speech, from which we are enabled
to extract the following :—“ Ladies—I mean-
er—(hear, hear)—Yes !—Mr. Chairman and cetera
—In thanking you for this toast, I take the —
the—as you might say, the—(loud applause.) Yes.
In this ’ere district, where the Town and Kuntky
Jernal, as I might say, prowls—no (cheers), pro-
crastinates—no, permiculates (a voice, “ perme-
ates”)—Oh, if I’m going to be interrupted (shame!)
—as I said, permicates through vale and valley,
and, as Aristarchus has it, ‘ Suspectnm semper in-
visumque dominantibus qui vroximus destlnaretur.'
(Loud applause from Mr. Withers, M.L.A.) Which
will sufficiently explain my meaning. The intiu-
ence of the Jernal is recognised in these parts:
to quote from the poet,
• O’er marsh and mallow ’
(Applause.) Gentlemen, I may tell you, in confi-
dence, that it is only lately I’ve come to be a poet—
to write rhyme. I’ve onlv recently learned to
make it, but, oh, I love it dearly! Here is what I
wrote out last night:
‘ The man who takes in the Sydney Mail
Grows yaller, and his toes turn very pail;
But the party that sticks to the Town and
Kuntry jernal
Can learn the concertina gratis, and have joy
eternal.’
(Enthusiasm.) The fortifications—no, the ramfor-
tifleations of the Jernal are prolific. We had a
subscriber once who had a bad and drunken hus-
band, and she wrote to me for a receipe for an
omelick au flues herbs. Wo sent it to her. and the
next week her husba-d died. (Applause.) You
have doubtless all heard of Bunny, the Malian
poet. (Gloom.) Weil, this what he says:-’ Tanto
pin di prcqio reen nil'opera VuinUtd deU'artistn
quanto piu aqqiutiqc di valore nl numcro la nidHta
delj&ero: (Consternation.) Chris., when on the
GflDtinong, got together several of these, and t hey
ar«*M considerable use to us when dealing with
foreign toothpicks. Gentlemen, I will now con-
clude by wishing success to the Jervel. (Hear,
hear).” Alfred here sat down, and lor the next
few moments was buried in custard and reflection.
Which religion ? The Resident Magistrate,
Christchurch iN.Z ), recently decided a religious
difficulty in a sensible way. A little child, deserted
by both its unnatural parents, was brought before
him and committed to the Industrial School. As
he was unable to ascertain which church the
parents attended, he was in a dilemma regarding
the order for religious training the little waif was
entitled to; but as the child had been for some
time taken care of by a poor woman who had
acted the Good Samaritan to it, he said he thought
this good lady had the best right to decide; and on
aso3rtaining that she was a Primitive Methodist,
and that she was favourable to the child being
educated in the religion of that sect, he made the
order accordingly.
One of the moat bloodthirsty Indian chiefs
of the day is named Tomaskat. Many a time and
oft have we pelted the same with boot-jacks, soap,
and other bedroom furniture.
The spectacle of an Anglican vicar fighting
with an undertaker over the dead body of an
infant is not a pleasant one to contemplate. Yet
only last month in England such a scene was
enacted. When the funeral arrived at the church,
the vicar told the bereaved ones that their under-
taker was the biggest scamp in the district, and,
going up to the man of coltins, put his tist in his
face, and informed him he was a scoundrel, a
rogue, and a vagabond. When summoned for
assault the vicar got off on a technical point. I t is
needless to say he is a very low churchman. Hut
he may have been quite right.. ..In April, 1783,
the Rev. Dr. Peddle took charge of a congregation
in Edinburgh. April last saw his son in charge ot
the same congregation, so that father and son have
put in a century preaching. Many of the con-
gregation are Christians still.
Diamond* have been discovered in Christ-
church, and companies formed. The prospectus of
one runs as follows : “ Prospectus of the Tame
Duck Extended Diamond Company, Limited,
Tucker Creek, Ashburton County. Nominal capi-
tal, £20; in 200 shares of 2s. each ; subscribed
capital, 16s. 8d., being Id per share. An influen-
tial board of directors has been selected. A dia-
mond having been extracted lately trorn the
gizzard of aduck on the station of Goosey Gander,
Esq., at Tucker Creek, the directors have pur-
chased thirty ducks, which will be scot out pro-
specting every morning on the giound adjacent to
Tucker Creek At the end of a week the ducks
will be killed, and the gizzards examined for dia-
monds, which, if found, will be immediately sent
to be tested. The defunctducks will be distributed
amongst the provision, ry directors,so t hat, unlike
other companies, there will be an immediate re-
turn for money invested. I he giblets will be the
perquisites ol the secretary, while the eggs laid
by the said inks will be reset\*<1 for hatching
other sciicmes. A call of Id. per share per week
will be mad" to replace the ducss madr
away with. Should no diamonds bo discoveied
after the lapse of a lostn.ght, the creek will be
dammed, and the leatheis of the ducks will be
made into pillows to bolster up the concern.
Should the public throw c.-.ld water on the scheme,
arrangements have been made with K. Cock-
sparrow, Esq., C.E., to maintain it at a propel
temperature. Application for shares to be made
to Muscovy Drake, secretary pro tem.”
As shines a good deed in a naughty world,
stands out amidst the mass of trashy specifics and
deleterious concoctions, the pure, unadulterated,
palatable preparation known as Wonris’s
bCHJSAPPS.
SALVATION ARMY—THE BAND.
The Model Newsboy.
[INSCRIBED TO ALFRED.]
No more will he, besmeared with smuts.
Small pebbles fling, crouch’d in the gutter;
He “ looks the cheese.” now, as he cuts
Along beneath his chaste cheese-cutter.
His hair of bear’s-grease will be full, _
And smoothed down in a shiny plaster;
He’ll always go to Sunday school, „
He’ll “learn the flute without a master.
And, when he gets a threep’nny-bit, „
And has no change, he’ll sling no patter,
But, cap in hand, say “ Really it,
I do assure you, doesn’t matter.
False murders he will no more bawl,
Nor howl out tales of battles gory;
If questioned re a bogus brawl
He’ll say “ I cannot tell a story.
You’ll never see him in the “show,” _
For that in sin straight would be fallm ;
He’ll pin his faith in T ‘ lanterns, oh,
And skewer it on Alfred Allen.
He’ll shudder at the name “ Blandolt,”
And at the threep’nny circus never is;
His holy feathers will not moult; ,
He’ll swear now by the name of Jefferxs.
Well, prosper, model newsboys! Of
New glory you’re now in the thiek ot it
(Of course we do not mean to scoff).
But let’s know, will you, when you re sick ot it ?
Mischlef-Making.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In our little social Edens—they’re not very bright,
alas! —
There are very many vipers, and snakes within the
grass;
And they coil beneath our hearth-stones, and they
crawl into our hearts,
Wounding all our fearless pleasures with their
spiteful venomed darts.
There are envies, hates, and malices— a fell prolific
brood.
All the scum and slough of evil, which encrust
and foul the good—
Evil speaking, evil thinking, evil wishing, and, far
worse,
The secret evil working of the mischief-making
curse!
Oh, the Janus-headed monster! Oh, the hate-oon-
cocted cup,
Which unsuspected malice pours, and envy mixes
up!
O, the slanders, defamations; O, the calumnies, the
spite,
That lie beneath the surface of that goblet pure
and bright!
Ah, God I that man should drink it up, and drai
its very lees,
Unwitting of its poison powers, its harmful
miseries!
Ah God I that hearts should be so black, that minds
should be so base;
That man should hate man in his soul, yet hide it
in his face!
That speech, the gift that raises him above the
brute, should bo
Perverted to a use that lowers him to the brute's
degree;
Whose “ words are wounds,” and, venom-charged,
hiss out like breath of snakes:
Whose tongue is like the adder’s in the mischief
which it makes!
Thus our little social Edens, whore our flowers of
pleasure grow,
And our happy household valleys, are the haunts
of many a foe;
For stealthily about our paths the viper malice
glides.
And underneath our hearth-stones coiled, the
serpent Slander hides.
W.B.
TELEGRAPH MESSENGER.
A HUSBAND’S VENGEANCE.
There was a time, a former time
(Or, so we’ve understood!,
When angry man avenged a crime
The quickest way he could.
If any fellow kissed your wife,
You dabbled in his gore:
But, now-adays—why, bless your life!
We always “go to law.”
We do not draw the hasty sword
His “ wizen ” face to slit,
And stretch bis corse upon the sward—
But serve him with a writ.
Wc ever check the angry flood
Of passion, in our heart;
We do not shed the villain’s blood,
But merely make him “ part.”
We walk in quite another path
(On strictly legal grounds)—
The man who desolates our heart h
Is charged five thousand pounds.
But, after all, it’s just as well—
It does away with “ rows;”
We all are apt (you cannot tell)
To “like” our neighbour’s spouse.
And, if, perchance (“ aye, there’s the rub, ”)
She winketh with her eye,
’Twould not be nice, if injured “hub.”
Compelled a man to die,
That awful state of things. Lord knows!
Would make young men despondent;
But now one can, with safety, pose
As naughty co-respondent.


It’s all turned out true about Alfonso, tvho
has temporality given the missus “ brusher,” and
is at Homburg—not Hamburg, dear Herald—hav-
ing a time with the Emperor of Germany, and a
feAv others of the “ right sort.” Recently, the
Duke de Taines and the Count de Benalulu called
on his Catholic Majesty, and threatened to cut off
his ears if he didn’t straighten up and cease to
bring about family complications. His Majesty, it
is reported, looked in the glass, and then ordered
up two 34-inch saddle-bags and a hair trunk. You
will And these answer equally as well,” was the
regal reply. We have a shrewd suspicion that
Benalulu isn’t Spanish—or, rather, we should have,
avhs not an authority for the spelling of it thus a
Balclutha (N.Z.) paper,
A Carcoar lawyer came round to Carcoar
Mart’s office the other day and wanted to horse-
whip her little hub. Garland, because ho called the
man of costs “a rum individual.” He brought
with him the limb of a willow, but sheered off when
he saw Mary poising the office scissors. He ad-
vanced once Avith his weapon, and avAIoav, willow
Avaly he’d go : then twice ; then willow, willow,
’way he went. And, as Mary puts it * With this
the limb of the law, accompanied by the limb of a
Avillow, adjourned for further refreshment, and
the disappointed editor, accompanied by the dis-
appointed assemblage, adjourned to Hade s par-
lour to arrange the toasts tor the banquet. Fancy
Mary going to Hades. Shocking ! However, if
she did go there she’d convert it into a Heaven.
Being married ourselves we can say no more than
this.,
Young Corbett (accused of Mel-
bourne bank robbery) described his father
as a sugar-planter. He was thinking of
himself—at least, he “planted” the
“ sugar.”
A magistrate in an English town
objected to a dog sitting on the bench.
The dog belonged to the chairman. Here,
the dog would have objected to the
magistrate.
“Why did the Jews reject the
Saviour ?” Mr. W. asks in the D.T. Since
the question is put so publicly, our private
opinion is that it was because the security
wasn’t good enough.
By the way, R. Burdette is the
cading comic Journalist of America, at
the present time. We wonder whether—
but, no. it can’t be. The fairies forgot
to christen him Smith.
It is unfair. Why should Mrs.
Hampson pray for the Herald and the
Echo and not for “us,” who really do
require it ? Can it be that we are past
praying for ?
A stone axe was found near
Hamilton (Vic.), the other day. A skele-
ton clutching a flat stone, on which was
inscribed what appeared to be some abor-
iginal verse, was discovered near it. The
skull of the skeleton was cloven. Even
in the misty past, you see, the bard got
his due reward. It is a pity for the sake
of this story that no skeleton was found
there. But there should have been one.
So it amounts to the same thing.
An American genius proposes to
cross the Atlantic in a balloon. He is
going to start when there is a good
hurricane blowing. The English papers
think this a mighty novel and audacious
idea. Why, with us hurricanes are as
obsolete as hand-carts for the purpose
of traction. We only employ them in
hearses now, to keep up the old tradi-
tion of slow solemnity being soothing to
the feelings of the dead.
A squatter out West, whose stock
are dvmg in thousands owing to the Jong-
continued drought, writes to a friend in
Sydney as follows:—“If I were a believer
in such things, I might say that the Son
of Calamity and general Desolation, who
was sired by an earthquake, and dammed
by a hurricane—who combed his hair with
the Thunder and washed his hands with
the Lightning, and whoso every delight
is the annihilation of nations—was walk-
ing the earth in these parts lately.” As
soon as this man’s .station is cleared out
he can come to Sydney, and join our staff
as typhoon, sirocco, avalanche, and earth-
quake-editor.
Some mou never miss an oppor-
tunity. With them it is a chronic case
lof “ heads I win, tails you lose.” A Mel-
bourne man is about taking a holiday in
ISurope ns the reward of his ’cutencss.
At one time he had a good cellar, and
drank good wine, because—like the good
old English parson—ho liked it. The
public thought his cellar was stillfull, but
ho knew better. He knew that he and
his friends could not have gone on for
years Avorshipping at the rosy god’s
shrine without making a hole in the most
extensive stock. So Avhen the Salvation
Army came along, calling sinners to
repentance with a slide-trombone, a
felicitous thought struck him. and he
struck it fair on the head. He opposed
the “ force ” in every Avay—was its most
rancorous enemy. Contempt, ridicule,
threats, even dead animals, were hurled
by him at the leading sections of con-
verted rascaldom coming his way. All
this time he avus quietly filling his empty
cellars AA’ith Avlne hotth d by himself from
the < hoapest stuff he could pick up in
the colonies. By and bye, his opposition
to the “Saints” became l-ss vitupera-
tive. He Avas touched, softened—con-
verted. He attended their meetings,
confomed himself the “boss” of Judas
Iscariot, Caesar Borgia, and mints Carey,
in ail-round criminality, took the pledge,
Avore a medal as big as a sardine-tin and
a blue scarf as nroud as one of Ouiria s
novels. Then he advertised his av< II-
known choice wines for sale, and had
Israelite “buttoneis” to run them up to
fancy prices. Noav he is on his way home
to be presented at Court, and SAvell the
number of those returned colonlstsin
London who think th'-re is small hope
for antipodean commerce until colonial
merchants introduce a little more
honesty and fair dealing into their
Baron Maclay’s monkey, Jumbo, got
loose at Watson’s Bay the other day, and was with
difficulty recaptured. It afterwards transpired
that in reading the paper he had mistaken the date
of the opening of the session.
While a man was smoking under the
verandah of Keats’ public-house, Taree, on
Thursday night, a flash of lightning visited the
place and left its card. It took the pipe out of his
mouth, and twisted his head far enough round to
enable him to see the back of his neck. He is
sitting there still, on the off chance of gttting an-
other bolt to put him right again and And his pipe.
We know men in Sydney who didn’t require a
stroke of lightning to turn their heads. The
privilege of hooking J.P. or C.M.G. to their names
was quite enough.
A correspondent of the Western Grazier,
Wilcannia, complains bitterly of the working of
the Babbit Act. According to him, the inspectors
have strict instructions to show no mercy to land-
owners who do not employ sufficient men to re-
duce or destroy the pest. But, in sparsely-peopled
districts, men cannot always be obtained, so that,
between the sledge of the law and the anvil of the
scarcity of trappers, the “selectors’ life is not a
happy one.” He suggests that, instead of paying
£14,000 a year in official salaries, fid. a head should
be paid for every rabbit brought to justice. This,
in his opinion, would make bunny’s career a short
and not fascinatingly merry one.
The Y.M.C.A. gave Mrs. Hampson a picnic
to Clontarf, last Saturday. When Mrs. H. landed
on that beautiful spot, she said with much emotion
that she felt as though her foot were upon the fairy
shores of Utopia. The fairy shores didn’t say what
they felt.
It is generally known that Helen Faucit is
married to Sir Theodore Martin. Prince Consort’s
biographer, and part author of the “ Bon Gaultier
Ballads;” but it is not generally known that Helen
takes snuff. She is noiv 60, and does not care a
rap, or rather a rappee, for public opinion. She is
about the only actress we ever knew that even the
baldheadscan’t “smudge.”
Under the heading of “ funerals” Alfred
has the following in Saturday’s News:—“The
friends of Mr. Blank, who recently had the mis-
fortune to have his leg broken, are requested to
attend a Preliminary Meeting, in the Howlers’
Hall, Castlereagh-street, on Tuesday, the 35th inst..
at 8 p.m., to arrange for a benefit on his behalf.”
Rather hard this seems, but Mr. Blank may console
himself with the reflection that it is better to be
buried in the Lyre than sung in it. Well might
Mr. M. send him who had buried him the follOAV-
ing:—
Why kill me ’cause I broke my leg,
I ask you, Alfred, why?
’Tis hard to get my funeral
And not my leg-a-sigh!
But though you’ve burled me, dear boy,
(Believe this to bo true)
Bo mute in future and I will
Not think the Avhearse of you.
A man who lives next door to a 6d-restaur-
ant, is about to walk across Middle Harbour, on a
slack wire. He has had no experience, but he
says he’d just as soon die that way as be poisoned
by his neighbours’ rubbish-box. And, having in
view the high price of meat, he prefers to perish
at a distance.
So it appears that Colonel the Hon. Arthur
Wellesley is really to marry KatoVaughan, who (the
present Duke of Wellington being an old potterer
of 70) will probably soon turn from a little dancing
girl into a little dancing duchess. The old Duke,
when a youngish Duke, made himself conspicuous
by introducing a returned transporter at Court.
The ex-convict would have been thoroughly ini-
itiated, only he happened in the crush-room to
tread (literally) on the toes of'the Judge who had
tried him, by whom he was immediately recognised
and turned out. Thunderation! What with Kate
Vaughan as prospective Duchess of Wellington,
Connie Gilchrist (a not very clever doll, and one
whose legs have the infirmity of those of “the per-
son of the House”) wearing the Lonsdale diamonds,
Viscount Garraoyle (Lord Cairns’s son) married to
Mias Fortescue, things are getting a bit mixed. If
the stage begins to get as aristocratic as this, we
shall expect soon to behold the great R.B. playing
Borneo, and John (he’s a Sydney J.P.) going on
with a banner.
“ Oh, the beauteous summer’s coming,
Said she, “ like a golden dream.”
Moodily a tune he’s humming,
He is thinking of ice-cream.
It is rumoured that a Mr. Field has
brought an action for libel against Judge Win-
deyer. He is said to be a “ fair Field,” and of course
he’Ii get “ no favour.” Why, cert’nly. [Hold this
par, over—Ed.B.1
It is said that the only women who cry at
Mrs. Hampson’s missions are those who have no
eyebrows. The best effects in the choir, too, are
produced by the long-lipped new-chums, with the
red shawls and the curly teeth. They can give
you “there is a fountain” with thrilling pathos;
they can repeat “ alleylooyer ” with Miggs-like
grace; they can go into the prayer-rooms after
the meeting and gi\ r e themseh r es up to Glory; but,
by thunder, they can’t black-lead your parlour
grate! We had a servant once who “ tumbled into
the fountain” with surprising regularity. She
came to us in a meek and resigned spirit, her bag-
gage taking the form of a band-box and a hymn-
book. She said she had been’T 1 called,” and was
“ chosen;” but Avhenever avo called her, we didn t
get any satisfaction. Finally, one morning, having
on the night previous requested a small advance
(Avhich was granted), she took herself off, probably
to the land to Avhich she had been Called and was
Chosen. Well, they can keep her there; we don t
want her. All Ave do want is a set of bone chess-
men and the drawing-room fire-irons.
Here’s a good yarn about a black mission-
ary on the Gold Coast. ’Tis told by Captain Ellis
in his “Land of Fetish.” The reverend darkie
offered to sell a couple of gaudily-dressed girls to
the officers of the author’s regiment, to while away
the time at Anamaboe, which he described as
“rather dull place for Europeans.” The bargain
was declined. “A little abashed at the manner in
which we had treated his offer, the preacher sent
away the two young ladles, and, beginning to have
a faint idea that he had somehow not risen in our
estimation, he endeavoured to retrieve his lost
ground by falling back upon his more legitimate
occupation, and asked that we should delay our
departure in order that he might preach a sermon
to the men.”
A letter, evidently closely inspired by the
Duke of Cambridge, appears in the London World.
It says that the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge
have paid over £30,000 for the Duke of Teck and
his wife, besides charging themselves with the ex-
pensive education of their children. And it was
only “ because they declined to settle their vast
debts in full, they have had to bear the ignominy
of this public sale, and the remarks which writers
unacquainted with the facts have made upon their
conduct.” The Duke of Teck had a passion for
many things, but chiefly for the turf, and mip.,
an-t actresses of the “Mrs. Boustay” type, who is
said, by the way, to have been very fond of him.
So the family go to Rumpenheim, in Germany.
At least the Duchess of Teck and the kids do. We
expect it will take the Duke yet a little while
before he can shift his hair-trunk and cocked-hat
casa*. Hang it! why can’t they come out here and
rulfcfr#
Lord Garmoyle, who is marned to Miss
Fortescue, the actress, has £5000 a year in his own
right. Miss F. played in “lolanthe” on the 4th
October, 1883, for the last time, and there was a
f reat roll up. Later, Miss Fortescue had “ a satis-
actory interview” with Lord and Lady Cairns, in
Scotland, pa and ma accepting the inevitable.
Lord G. has been, for years, an inveterate theatre-
haunter, and has been long known in coulisses et
ateliers as Lord Gumboil.
It is said that champagne is going out of
fashion in England, and so, we suppose, we shall
follow up on the same side in Sydney. This will
bring comfort to many; and especially to us, Avho
have long been pained to see young “ dudes ” come
into a caw with great dignity and order a “ small
bottle,” having previously counted out the money
under a lamp-post, in order to see that they had
“ just enough.’ 4 Then, these poor creatures dally
a long time over the mixture (which, in nine cases
out of ten, is merely apple-juice and sulphuric
acid), and are in a state of great glory. The next
move is to stand outside the Theatre Royal chew-
ing a cigarette. The last scene of this eventful
history is when, with dubious countenances, they
creep home, and find a flery-facedlandlady Avalting
up, who cheerfully Informs them that the “ man ”
from the steam laundry had declined to leave their
washing, and that, no rent having been forth-
coming, their rooms have been let in their absence.
Then a dismal picture of a forlorn youth may be
seen humping a small bag over the city at mid-
| night, and cursing the expenditure of those “ three
I ’arf-crowns."
In his lecture on the “ Creation,’*
at St. George’s Hall, Melbourne, the Rev.
G. Sutherland proved that Science and
Holy Writ were twins, and that whato\ r er
one said the other swore to, just as an ex-
perienced policeman while fracturing the
parietal bone of a prisoner, for being
“impident,” knows there is another ex-
perienced “bobby’’three or four blocks
away whose evidence can always be
depended on to get him out of trouble
if the man should be spiteful enough to
die. Mr. Sutherland showed that “the
Biblical account of the creation of the
world, so far from being antagonistic to
the facts disclosed by Science, was in full
and complete harmony with them.” We
nre glad this vexed question is settled at
last.
It is anticipated that the sale of
the Duke of Hamilton’s library will realize
a sum total of £80,000. It seems quite
droll to think of the noble Duke studying
any other volumes than those of the Rac-
ing Calendar; and-as between ourselves
—we don’t think be ever did. It’s just
as well that the splendid “ Beckford col-
lection” should pass into more appreci-
ative bands. The Duke, as a young man,
used to stay sometimes at the house of
Tom Brown (then his trainer) at New-
market, by the hour together. He would
amuse himself Avith that intellectual game
“solitaire;” but as he never could suc-
cessfully accomplish the stupendous task
of leaving the last marble in the centre
of the board, you can form a fair idea of
his brain-power. The Duchess has tastes
someAvhat congenial with her lord’s.
Just previous to her marriage, while
going o\ r er the Duke’s farm at New-
market, she gave special orders that some
old barns should not be pulled down, be-
cause “she liked a little ratting just as
much as the Duke.”
There were twelve cases set down
for hearing before the Melbourne Divorce
Court Avhen it opened the other day. This
is encouraging news—encouraging to us,
we mean. We were thinking ourselves—
so you are looking over our shoulder,
darling, are you ?—well, as we were say-
ing, we were thinking of a picture.
Quite an imaginary picture, you know.
Two sitting by the seaside, male and fe-
male after their kind. Close together are
they, as is the SAveet and comfortable old
custom. They are talking; talking softly,
but earnestly. Just here we will remark
that Ave haA'e noticed—like Mr. Silas
Wegg, Ave take a powerful sight of notice
of things—that lovers rarely laugh. This
observation we throAV in parenthetically
and psychologically for the sake of
science, and not to show off our own
cleverness. He bends his glossy head,
and Avhispers something into her shell-
like ear. She looks up at him Avith a
sunny smile, full of trust and confidence.
“In three months,” he says, “at the
furthest.” Ha!—they are fixing thewed-
ding-day. Not quite; they are talking
about the time when their divorce case
Avill come off. This will be the denoue-
ment of the novels of the future.
In Bathurst, the other day, a
Chinese cabbage-peddler left his wares
on the footpatn, while ho Avent into a
compatriot , cabinet-maker’s, to djscuss
the political situation, and the price of
porkee. While there, three learned
goats’sauntcred up the street, and seeing
the baskets proceeded to make a bo-
tanical inspection. Ten minutes later
the cabbage-man trotted out, and on
belin ding the spectacle of the goats at
his baskets, uttered seA'erai Chinese cx-
clan ations (doubtless f 11 unfit for pub-
lication), and the air gierv thick witn
bricks It was a good Avbile before re
avrs pacified, and by that time, the jeAvel-
ler bed pasted a copy of the Frfe Pfess
over the hole in his plate-glass front,
the corn-dealer had gone to the hospital
holding half his scalp in his hand, and the
lawyer s clerk avos groping in the gutter,
“ tickling ” in the mud—trout tisherinan-
like—for one or tAvo, anyhow, of his
seventeen lost molais Meanwhile, the
innocent goats had ••'Tied a meeting on
the rocks outside the tOAvn, and tne
chairgoat had innocently proposed a vote
of thanks to a Chinaman (nameunknoAvni
who had so thoughtfully furnished them
with seasonable refreshment.
“Why won’t Jumbucktown give any-
thing?” said Alfred, one day, to Montague Levy,
during the News Contempt of Court case sensa-
tion. “Veil,” was the reply, “de Mayor sez that
the band has been for de last three months
learnin’ to play * Annie Laurie ’ without a master
and . . . .”
Rose Massie, who, as a “ Basket of Mis-
chief,” was once the most photographed girl > n
London, has, we read, died in America, where also
H. J. Montague—with whom her name was so inti-
mately associated — sleeps his last sleep. Bose
Massie, though she did have “a temper of
own,” was a graceful and sympathetic actress, an
achieved great successes in “ False Shame
“ Time Works Wonders,” at the Globe, under iio
tague’s management. Subsequently, her ore
of promise” action against him brought oei
the public some of the silliest letters ever read _ _
court of law; and it was a terrible disillusi .
ment ” tor the boarding-school misses of the pe _
to find that the billets-doux of Harry Montague
the romantic lover of their dreams (and as a » ».
lover he has not been equalled of late years;
stead of breathing the tenderest passion, v, a d
tained little else than references to what ne
“ had for dinner.” After that miserable bus me
Bose Massie dropped into unmerited onscu j,,
but the news of her early death recalls clan
and no one who remembers “False Shame
help thinking, with a little sigh, of poor
Massie.”
ADAM LINDSAY GORDON.


New South Wales Racing Com-
pany’s Consultations
os
MELBOURNE CUP.
50,000 Shares at 10s. per Share—£35,000.
1st Horse £4000 I Starters £1000
2nd „ 30001 Non-Starters ... 3000
3rd „ 10001
For 149 Horses £10,000
117 Prize Glfts.-366 Prizes la all.
8 Prize Gifts, at 135 £1000
30 „ at £100 3000
40 „ at 50 3000
40 „ at 35 1000
... £15,000
Application by Letter only, addressed to the Secre-
tary, No. 3 Wentworth (Jourt, Elizabeth-street;
or Box 255, G.P.O., Sydney.
All parties are requested to forward Drafts, P.O,
Orders, or Cheques ; if Cash, to register letters.
Results sent to Shareholders and published in the
Leading Weekly Papers of the Colonies.
The Drawing will take place before a Committee
of Shareholders.
W. BURNHARD.
A MaSCOTTE CONSULTATIONS
MELBOURNE CUP, 1883.
10,000 shares at 10s. each £5000
1st Horse £2000
2nd „ 1000
3rd „ 500
Starters 300
Non-starters 300
Prize Gifts 1000
£5000
Prospectus on application.
The La Mascotte Company thanks the public fo
their support in previous consultations, and hope
for a continuance of their patronage for this pro
gramme.
Application, by letter only.
D. LINDO, No. 8 Tattersall’s Chambers, Hunter-
street, and Box 723, P.O., Sydney.
Tattersa/I’s Monster Consultations,
MELBOURNE CUP of 1883.
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS at £1 EACH.
First Horse, £5000 ; Second Horse, £3000; Third
Horse, £1000. Starters, £1000 ; Non-starters,
£1000 ; to be divided amongst them.
MELBOURNE CUP of 1883.
2000 SUBSCRIBERS at £1 EACH,
First Horse, £1000 ; Second Horse, £300 ; Third
Horse, £300. Starters, £350 ; Non-starters, £250;
to be divided amongst them.
Persons making application are requested to
register their Letters to ensure safe delivery of
same, and enclose addressed stamped envelope for
reply.
Address—“ TATTERSALL,” care of 6. Adams,
Tattersall’s Hotel, Sydney.
I A M O N D.'
IVHSLBOURNE CUP CONSULTATION 1883.
Capital £10,000 in 20,000 Shares of 10 shillings each
DISTRIBUTED AS FOLLOWS:—
Application by stamp, to
Care of O. Sehlebllch,
Watchmaker and Jeweller,
17 Little Collins-street East, Melbourne,
(Near Colonial Bank.)
Prizes paid one day after drawing, and Horses
paid two days after event.
Result slips posted to each Subscriber, and also
advertised in daily and weekly papers. Shares sent
per return post. Prospectus on application.
Letters containing cash should be registered.
If country cheques, must bear exchange.
N.B.—“Diamond,” in thanking numerous clients
for their support in previous successful racing
seasons, Invites their co-operation in the above.
£3000 For 2s. Gd. £3000
A COLOSSAL FORTUNE for HALF-A-CROWN
The “ GREAT VICTORY ” SWEEP on the MEL-
BOURNE CUP, 1883.
To be Run on the 6th November.
This Gigantic Sweep, offering advantages to the
public never before attempted, is the property of
a bond fide Company with responsible directors.
CAPITAL: £10,000, divided into 80,000 Shares of
2s. 6d. each.
Also, over 1000 Prizes guaranteed, and distributed
as follows:—
..£1000
,. 1000
.. 1000
.. 750
We shall send 9 tickets for a pound.
.£10,000
Not less
than 2 sent to any single address. Send P. O. order,
cheques, or bank notes. If stamps are sent, add
exchange at the rate of Is. in the pound. Should
coin be sent, register letter. Please send 3d. extra
for membership.
The drawing will take place on the 1st November,
and will be conducted by a committee of 150 Share-
holders drawn from the entire body. The result
will be posted to all Shareholders immediately
and advertised throughout the colonies.
Tickets sent by return post*-,
Write at once for prospectus. No charge.
Address—" VICTORY,”
Care of George Robertson, 94 Bourke-street,
Next Opera House, Melbourne.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
Engllslt Papers and Magazines received by
every Mall.
ROYAL ARCADE, 496 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
WOOL SEASON, 1883-4.
R. Goldsbrough & Co.
(LIMITED),
In which are amalgamated The Australasian
Agency and Banking Corporation (Limited),
and R, Goldsbrough and Co.,
WOOL & GRAIN BROKERS.
Capital.
£3,000,000.
BEG to notify the Woolgrowers of New South
Wales and Queensland that they make
Liberal Cash Advances, on favourable terms, on
the ensuing clip of Wool, and on Station securities.
Thev have also much pleasure in announcing that
their NEW WAREHOUSES at Darling Harbour
will be ready for the reception and sale of Wool,
Auction Sales of which will be held every FRIDAY
throughout the season. This department will
remain under the control of an efficient staff of
experts, who will take charge of and Sell to the
Best Advantage all consignments entrusted to the
Company’s care. The Sales of Fat Stock (at
Homebush), Station and Freehold Properties,
Grain, Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, and General
Station Produce, will be under the superindenco of
Mr GEORGE MAIDEN. The Warehouses will be
unrivalled in the Southern Hemisphere for extent
and adaptability to the trade, being replete with
every Modern Improvement for the Efficient Dis-
play of Wool, the sale of which will b j conducted
on the Melbourne system. Large and complete
samples of each clip will be shown in the well-
lighted SAMPLE ROOMS, which comprise the
whole of the upper floors, and as the bulk will be
easily accessible in the various rooms, which are
convenient to each other, the fullest facilities will
be available for inspection, thus ensuring the ut-
most confidence in purchasing. Prior to off ering,
valuations will be made by several experienced
valuators, and their valuations will be carefully
compared before the wool is submitted for sale.
The various lots, no matter how small, will be pro-
tected up to the full market value. As they con-
iine their business strictly to that of SELLING
BROKERS ONLY, the best guarantee is afforded
that naaiarcel will be sold for less than its worth.
FarmOTa Lots receive special attention, every bale
and sack in the clip being shown in the Sample
Rooms. Should owners’ expectations not be
realized in Sydney, they have the advantage of
trying the Melbourne market before deciding on
shipment, fo which latter case the Company is pre-
pared to make liberal cash advances at lowest
market rales, and consign to the English, Conti-
nental, or American markets for disposal. The
chari?G8 on WoolofforGcl for salCj but not sold* qtg
only ONE SHILLING PER BALE, which includes
Receiving, Warehousing, Insurance whilst instore,
and Delivering.
LONDON-156 & 157 LEADENHALL STREET.
MELBOURNE-BOURKE & WILLIAM STREETS.
SYDNEY—4 SPRING STREET.
WRIGHT, HEATON & GO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding , Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE ;
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES.
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.S.W.:
Goulburn
Pass
Downing
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rock
Culcalrn
Cowabee
Narandera
Hulong
Carrathool
Hay
Western District, N.S.W.:
Capertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Duhho
Narromlne
Nevertdre
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblin
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamhle
Bourke
Northern District, N.8.W.:
Morpeth Brewarrlna
Gunnedah Tamworth
Narrabri Uralla
Walgett
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Line:
Brisbane Yeulba
Roma Cambooya
Dalby
Central Line;
Rockhampton Capella
Bogantungan Comet
Emerald
Northern Line:
Townsville Ravenswood Junction
Charters Towers
Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
WM. MCULLOCH & CO., LIMITED.
|y Agencies In all parts of the world.
JMBR
ILLAS
RECOVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Hare yourUmhrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
cuted.
Foster ’s Bugle Brand.
m
<2/ 1
VS
\ \
Water GAthS
H/MR'' FV’'"i ISHHU'T
/ 137; I39AI4I OXr;\RP x^‘.
HALF HOL/ok yflfs? r THUS? SO AY
III
0 : : r*
W
NO ALL CHEST AFFE
sSs
D. & R. BRADFORD,
Ironfounders, General
Blacksmiths, &c.,
“CITY FOUNDRY,’
121 LIVERPOOL STREET
and at
301 ELIZABETH STREET,
Between Bathurst and Park Streets.
All kinds of Ornamental Casting’s, Wrought Iron
Palisading?, Wrought and Cast Iron Girders, Cast
Iron Water Pipes, Connections, Water ana Fire
Plugs.
Estimates given for all kinds of Ironwork, &o.
IV. H. Ariel! and Co.’s Agencies.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, Canter-
bury, Normanby, and Christmas Family Cakes,
Plum Puddings, Mincemeat, Self-raising
ASrated Flour, Infant’s Food, Treacle and
Golden Syrup.
EXCELSIOR MILLS.—Superior Victorian Oat-
meal and Pearl Barley.
DILLON & BURROWS’ prize assorted Confec-
tionery.
J. KITCHEN & SONS, No. 1 Mottled and Toilet
Soaps.
J. F. M r KENZTB & CO.’S Coffee, Mustard, Cocoa,
Tea, in Hjlb. and 11b. packets ; dressed Rice,
and Patent Groats.
HUNT & CO.’S Prize Baking Powders, Adelaide
Jams Paper Bags, &c.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
BLEND
TRADE
10LLIE BLEND WHISKY—This is a BLEND
J of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
:nlng fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
' - ■ CATTELL & CO., Sole
_ taste
igents.
and flavour.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TT n. cS-er 1 taDsor,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
John Wanks,
IMPORTER OF
Bicycles ail Tricycle;
AND ALL THE NECESSARY
Fittings for same,
363 Pitt Street, Sydney.
m
AT.
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALE ALE.
The B EST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
aOBERT BUTCHER & CO.
(Late William Long),
53T" WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
TO CONN0ISEIJR8 of WHISKEY & BRANDY.
W. & A. Gilbey’s CASTLE BRAND WHIS-
KEY and L’OR EXTRAIT BRANDY are the
oldest and purest spirits Imported.
TUCKER & CO., Agents,
377 George-street.
HUST’S BOOT EMPORIUM, 404 Georgb St.,
near King-street.
Gents’ Boots, French Calf or Kid, superior quality,
from 10s. 6d.
Superior Ladies’ Extra High Glace Kid Button
Boots, superior quality, from 10s. 6d.
Ladies’ Evening Shoes, a great variety, from 4s. 6d.
AGING SEASON, 188 3.
E. E. JONES,
INTERNATIONAL HOTEL, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE CUP, 1883.
No. 1 CONSULTATION.
ENCOURAGED by past successes, I beg to
announce that I intend having a
SERIES OF CONSULTATIONS
of the above, on the usual distribution.
No. 1 is now open, and will close at the earliest
possible date.
I must request immediate application, so that
fortunate holders may have a good opportunity
of hedging.
Address—
“JANITOR,”
Care of E. E. Jones,
International Hotel, Sydney.
N.B.—For the convenience of Town Clients, a
Letter Box will bo found in the bar.
CUP.
03000 on MELBOURNE
1883,
The Third Consultation of my 1883 Series.
"AUSTBALAsIA” » W E E P.
13,000 Shares, at 5s each.—An even 4, £1.
Prizes at £35-£350
„ 10— 500
„ 5-350
£1000
Grand total, £3000
The success of former events induces me to an-
nounce the next on the Melbourne Cup, th©
greatest racing event of the year, as above.
Results advertised in leading papers, and for-
warded to all subscribers. A pound secures four
chances—not one only. Ten per cent, is deducted
for all expenses. Applicants are requested to en-
close notes, P.O.O., or crossed cheques (to which
exchange must be added), and 4d. stamps tor reply
and result. Register letters.
Address —“ AUSTRALASIA,”
Care of Mr. H. J. FRANKLIN,
Printer and Publisher,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
ELBOURNE CUP, 1883
LEVIATHAN “ABAMASTOR” COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £30,000 in 40,000 SHARES of 10s Bach,
634 PRIZES (more or less), £13,750 for STARS,
and £7350 for HORSES.
Plan of Astronomical Distribution:
First Horse (winner of the Melbourne Cup)... £3000
Second Horse 1500
Third Horse 750
Starters (divide) 800
Non-starters (do) 1300
*** First Star £3000 ♦**
**♦ Second Star 1000 ***
*** Third Star 500 ♦**
13 stars of £300 each, 100 stars of £100 each, 30
stars of £50 each, 30 stars of £40 each, 45 stars of £35
each, 100 towns of £10 each, 300 towns of £8 each,
85 towns of £6 each, and “ the comet ” £40.
“ Adamastor,” in thanking his subscribers for the
liberal support that he has received from them for
the past three years, and in consequence of the
yearly increase of subscribers, finds it necessary to
double his programme, which he begs herewith to
submit.
All parties are requested to forward drafts, P.O.
orders, or cheques; if cheques, exchange must be
added, and in all cases postage fees; if cash, to
register letter. Application by letter only, ad-
dressed—
“ADAMASTOR,” care of L. A. Pereira, 34
Bourke-street, west, Melbourne; Box 473, G.P.O.,
Sydney; and Little’s Bass Hotel, corner Pitt and
MarkeLStreets, Sydney.
P.S.-ResuIts sent to country shareholders, and
published in The Australasian, Age, and Sydney
Town and Country.
Will positively close on S9th October.


There is a certain masher in town, we are
told, who brags that he has been co-respondent
now in three divorce cases. We believe his state-
ment to be false, and deliberately made in order to
secure his entry to good society. Upper circles
should be careful how they cultivate the acquaint-
ance of this pseudo Don Giovanni.
A stone axe, about six inches long,
evidently an aboriginal Implement, and ingeniously
made, has been found near Hamilton (Vic.) The
Government should stop this sort of thing while
there is yet time. From axes there is but a step to
flint arrowheads, and then the way is open for
lacustrine villages with remains of the cave bear,
beds of primeval cockle-shells, and primox-dial
boomerangs. Once get as tar as this, and when- !
ever an inoffensive “ cockatoo” turns up the first
sod of his legally-acquired selection, he will find
his privacy invaded by a bald, sharp-nosed man in
green spectacles, or a dowdy female of uncertain
age, poking about for traces of the prehistoric
nigger. No. The authorities must put down with
a strong hand the finding of six-inch stone hatchets,
whether Ingeniously made or not.
W. H. L. Bailey will not die, unless Provi-
dence vouchsafes to him his own especial earth-
quake. He said the other day that “ the Coota-
mundra Libera l whs ” (as if anyone cared i “under
the thumb of an Orange parson.” Pinkstoue
bucks at this, and Bailey has a long apology ending
thus:—“As honest journalists, we assure him of
f.ur deepest regret at its publication, and our
entire disbelief in the assertion. More wo cannot
say. We have quite enough of our own district
business to attend to without seeking a feud
amongst Cootamundra journals. Facet inrum apud
praepotentes in longum meiiwrln est"— a quotation
which is, palpably, a recipe for hair oil. We under-
stand that, since perusing this, W. H. L.'s sub-
scriber is " trembling in the balance.”
WHAT, INDEED?
We saw a little lawyer just
As we were crossing over,
With angry motion right off “ bust”
The Bulletin’s pink cover.
And then as in the shade we got,
This thought on us did strike—
“ If you had not your cover, what
The douce would you be like?”
A true Sydneyan is one who, when lie is in
Rome, does as—the Sydneyans do.
Mrs. Barker, of Dunedin, speaks royally
of Booth as “ our dear General,” and of the
Saviour as “ our Commander-in-Chlef.” Presum-
ably, she refers to the Deity as “ our pardner.”
A contributor to a Lismore paper says a
snake was caught up there lately which measured
over 13 feet, Whoso feet ? If the contributor’s,
he must have been measuring a hose-pipe. We
should like to know what kind of eyes that snake
had, and if it rolled them to any extent. We
should then be able to tell whether it was a rum.
or fusel-oil, or kerosene snake. They are all
different—we hear.
We have a grim suspicion that some of our
laws originate in lunatic asylums. A man was
brought before Judge Dowling last week charged
with attempted suicide. His Honor said that
according to a recent decision seven years
Imprisonment was the least sentence which could
be passed upon the prisoner. Imprisoning a man
for trying to commit suicide is like binding walls
around the air. What is to prevent him from
knocking his brains out against the walls of his
cell ? But worse. This man, or any man. or any
woman or child, might die in the streets of starva-
tion for all the law would care; but let them take
their own lives in any of the ways hereinunder
named and specified, and then see what they will
get. Bah!
In their evidence the other day two police-
men gave It as their private c nvlction that
navvies were “a cowardly and low set of vaga-
bonds.” This the Cumberland Mercury demges.
It admits that the navvy is a little “rough in his
manner, and at times apt to get on the spree, but
denies that ho is “low.” He appears to possess most
of the cardinal virtues. What he really needs
according to the Mercury— is a “healthy organi-
zation.” Now, we happen to know a good deal
about the navvy—his idiosyncrasies, expletives,
and appetite. If the capacity to put away without
Inconvenience a few pounds of underdone steak
and half a gallon of beer, while a fusillade of
vigorous blasphemy escapes from the mouth-
squeezed out by,the “ vittles”—be a sign of a weak
“organization, then, indeed, the navvy is doomed
to fade before advancing civilization.
A REFLECTION.
Redmond's married “twenty thou.”—
We wonder what is Redmond now ?
Newdegate has been telling all sorts oE
lies about Btadlaugh, for many a long day, with-
out compunction. Bradlaugh’s revenge is to tell
the truth about Newdegate, whom he declares ho
has often seen as “ screwed” as an owl. This riles
the holy immensely, though they never saw any
harm when their own man dealt slanderously by
the “atheistical wretch” who only perceives in an
intoxicated county member a drunken beast.
Mr. Justice Maule sentenced a rural pri-
soner in England in the following words “ Pri-
soner at the bar, your counsel thinks you innocent,
the counsel tor the prosecution thinks you inno-
cent, I think you innocent. But a jury of your
own countrymen, in the exercise of such common
sense as they possess, which does not seem to be
much, have found you * guilty,’ and it remains
that I should pass on you the sentence of the law.
That Is, that you be kept imprisoned one day, and
ns that day was yesterday you may go about your
business.”
A man was arrested at Williamstown
(Vic.), the other day, for having attempted to com-
mit suicide. He explained to the Bench, as the
reason for his rash conduct, that he was at the
time suffering from an attack of “distressing cir-
cumstances.” They were the double-headed ones,
with eyes of green fire. We know them. We have
been there. But it seems he also published a book
of poems, which crime preyed on his mind to such
an extent as to make him weary of life. We should
think so. But this attempted suicide is an evidence
that Victorians ai'e not so dead to all sense of
decency and self-respect as our own bards arc.
A Sydney daily says that ’twas in Duskey
Sound (N.Z.) that Cook first discovered “ that
dainty addition to our vegetable diet, spinach;”
and that the fact should he carried to his credit as
the discovery of the potatoe is to that of Raleigh.
Our contemporary has been gammoned by some
one on the spinach question. The true spinach
reached England from Siberia more than three
centuries ago, while what is called the New Zea-
land spinach (tetragonia expansa ) had been known
to travellers in South America long prior to Cook’s
time.
HTS MONNTKER.
Townsville has a bobby named Brabazon.
We hope in that name you are happy, son;
But you're not to blame.
For your singular name,
As long as you strive hard to trap a sin.
Whoop!
England with a high hand smuggles
opium into China, but let a Chinaman only attempt
to smuggle opium out of or into Hong Kong, and
just see if the severity of British law isn’t brought
to bear on him. Last month, for example, at Hong
Kong, Sam Ah Fat got lined 50 dollars, and sent up
for six weeks besides, for being in possession of
three taels of opium, and in “suspected posses-
sion ” of 210 taels more, without a valid certificate.
Of course the opium was confiscated, the lot going
to swell the stock to be forced nolens voUns on
China.
The Duke of Allmny lived so long on the
second floor of Buckingham Palace that ho thought
he had a right to the place. This pleasant illusion
was dispelled when his brother the Duke of Con-
naught was married and the whole of the ground
and second floors of the palace was required for
him and his missus. So Albany was given the
choice of shifting his things down’to the cellar or
up to the third landing. He chose the latter and
now reaches his “ diggings” by means of a lift con-
s ructed at a cost of £1600. Should another
wedding come off before his own, he expects to
have to commune with nature from the tiles.
The Echo has turned into a tract lately.
Hardly an issue appears without a letter, columns
long, from some reverend fossil or freethinker
who has not learned to think. One of these Illu-
minati—a defender of the faith this time—men-
tions that Isaiah was his favourite author at one
time, and proudly points out that he was also a
favourite author of Byron. Very likely; and gin
was a favourite drink of Byron’s, but people don t
think any the more of gin on that account. The
other profound theologians—including poor old
"J.B. Newcastle’’—argue much upon the same
lines. The end of all the discussion is that nobody
is anything the wiser, and everybody but the
writers is bored. To hear the latter talk, you
would think they played at school with the
Sro phots, and were overseers of works at the
reation. We would advise them to turn their
gigantic minds to the question of potato culture*
and give the other world a rest.
Moat Legislative Assemblies (notably that
of N.S.W.) are overrun with lawyers, and as
lawyers have no principles, the result political is
disastrous. No man who for the best part of his
life has been labouring indifferently in the cause
of truth and falsehood, can possibly possess either
fixity In his principles or logical firmness. For
the lawyer, the law has always two meanings,
two acceptations, “a double language and a Janus
face.” He concerns himself even more with the
effect than the cause, with the letter than the
spirit, with the application than the principle. In
his idea everything is an obstacle. Hence, com-
plicated statutes, and a disgusted public. Oh law I
Consul Kahlo endorses the suggestion that
twe dy-flve or. thirty Australian gentlemen repre-
senting the different industries of the colonies
should make a tour with him next year through
the States. There’s no doubt about the suggestion
being a healthy one. If something of the kind
were done regularly, the Sydney man would get
shaken up a bit. Nothing like swift travel with
one’s eyes open for ridding the brain of fads and
cobwebs. As the man says in the play—
“ It draws the grossnesa off the understanding.
And renders active and industrious spirits.
’Tis a dull thing to travel like a mill horse
Still in the place he was born In, lame, and
blinded.”
Of course, the condition “with one’s eyes open”
is essential to the profit of travel. Some fools
travel, and have nothing to show for it but some
such rigmarole as that they were cheated at Da-
mascus by one of the most agreeable fellows in the
world; that the demireps of Babylon swallowed
their best pearls and anointed the whole city with
their balm of Gilead; that their prancing attend-
ance at rich men’s feasts at Shusnan had profited
them nothing; that having started with a little
folly in their heads, they had returned with morel
When, however, a fellow travels who is not (as too
many Sydney men are) above learning—who can
make comparison, who can gauge the value of a
novelty and glean the profit of a wrinkle—he is
bound to bring home a pack of serviceable know-
ledge.
Just as we thought! It is far from enjoy-
able to know that one is a prophet. We knew it,
when we exhorted the journalists of Tatura (Vic.),
the other week, to remember our experiences. We
expressed an opinion to the effect that the crock
of gold they expected to unearth was only an
imago born of wild hopes and desperate despairs.
Constable Johnston collared the Tatura Herald
just after .its first number appeared. It is well
known tb it the Herald Is unmarried, and in
anticipation of that crock the blood of lively
youth coursed through the throbbing veins. The
Herald got on the high horse, and the high horse
got on the footpath, and Constable Johnston got
under the lot and dropped it in the lockup. The
Herald was fined, and the Telegraph laughed
like Satan. But the resources of the Press are
manifold. The Herald got a subscriber to pay a
quarter in advance, and, handing over the cash to
the court, indited a fiery leader on the past history
of Constable Johnston. Now the constable wants
£500. and the Telegraph promises a leader next
week that will make the Herald “ fly to Mada-
gascar.” So much for believing there was a crock
of gold in Tatura 1
In a certain quarry, a number of Italian
laborers were employed. They couldn’t understand
the language in which Pope has sung, and their em-
ployers, the contractors, are suspected to be ignor-
ant of the tongue in which Petrarch warbled. So, as
their faces were mostly alike, and their names be-
wilderingly barbarous to a respectable British
tradesman, unpleasantness arose. Antonio Allegro
swore in good Tuscan that Alberto Andante was a
lazy dog, a “pointer,” a lazzarone, who said three
prayers to the Virgin for every stroke of his pick,
while Andante, through a mouthful of maccaroni,
gave expression to his views, with a grunt and a
grin. But the contractors were losing money all
this time. Few of the foreigners could be found
at work when the foremen went round—although
they could find their way to the pay-tahle on
Saturday night with their eyes shut. Then one
of the employers hit upon a plan. He served out
to them new moleskin trousers, with numbers
neatly painted on the “slacks.” From that day
everything went well. Not only could it be seen
at a glance who were at work, but the fear of
being discharged, for having their numbers ob-
literated, kept the men from sitting down.
Unanimity at last reigns in the City
Council—so far, at least as the condition of
street is concerned. Councillor Palmer said
“There were holes in it large enough to place
throe alderman in horizontally.” We have not
been round Sussex-street way for some time, but
we trust Councillor Palmer’s statement is exagger-
ated. The last time we were there, a crowd was
looking down one of the holes at a pair of horses
and a hearse that had strayed in. We thought
this bad enough, but, when it comes to holding
three alderman, it is quite time the ratepayers
took the matter up.
We read that Princess Beatrice is suffering
from rheumatism —a victim to her mamma’s strict
enforcement of full evening dress at dinner In
draughty palaces. At last the effects of the royal
“fad” became so apparent that Trixey was per-
mitted to take her “cut off the joint in a,
“square cut bodice and elbow sleeves. This
arrangement, in addition to benefiting her health,
avoided the possibility of the gravy being spilt
down her neck. One of our staff poets will now
proceed to touch the harp gently :—
The Princess’ Plea.
“ Mamma,” the royal maiden cried,
“ Pray, pity your Princess!
To sit and shiver at your side
Is hard, you must confess.
I’d dearly like to hide ray charms.
And show a little less
Of my poor royal neck and arms —
Oh 1 let me change my dress.”
But, cold as steel to her appeal,
Her mater merely told her
That “ purple blood ” must never feel
The weather growing colder;
Nor changed her tack until, alack!
Ere Trixey was much older.
Lumbago seized her in the back,
And settled in her shoulder.
At last, you know, when winter’s snow
Hangs heavy on the leaves,
The Queen sees etiquette must “ go,
And (as a sigh she heaves) .
Exclaims: “ Well, there, my daughter, fair,
Although my heart it grieves.
You’d better wear a dress cut square,
And, likewise, elbow sleeves.”
Kate Vaughan, about whom the world has
heard so much, has left the Gaiety Company, be-
cause in Burnand’s burlesque Nellie Farren was as-
signed dresses “ more gorgeous” than hers. She is
now engaged for Sims and Clay’s comic opera for
the Alhambra, notwithstanding that the hon. and
gallant Colonel under whose protection she is, re-
quested her to undertake “more serious work’’
and star as Amy Robsart. This is really funny,
considering that Miss Vaughan’s specialities are
dancing, grotesque business, music-hall singing,
and the utterance of the most outrageous gags.
Kate Vaughan is, as is the case with Lillian Russell
(the woman for whom Solomon, the composer, also
left his wife), a tremendous draw, chiefly on account
of her picturesque brazenuess. On the first night
the woman Russell “showed” in “Virginia and
Paul,” at the Gaiety, though she was, on her ap
pearance, enthusiastically applauded by the
“mashers,” the pit treated her, by way of an
antidote, to a considerable “guying.” That was
before they saw her play and heard her sing ; and
when they found she was not only an excessively
beautiful woman who had gone wrong, but an
exceedingly clever actress who had (from an
opera-bouffe point of view) gone right, they ac-
corded her the applause due to a genuine artiste.
The mashers, dames, and dudes in the stalls
possibly gave her an ovation, on her entrance,
upon the principle of fellow-feeling making us
wondrous kind. Oh, and before we forget, we
must say a word of Mrs. Langtry. It has turned
out, as everybody knew it would, that there was
not a scintilla of truth about her impropriety of
conduct, but that she behaved herself throughout
her tour with the greatest decorum. Well, when
asked recently what she thought of the American
papers, Mrs. L. replied : “ They are all fuil of lies,
either pleasant or unpleasant. I sometimes read
the pleasant lies while my maid is brushing my
hair. But only pleasant lies that are in large
print. ”
Printed and Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. (Limited), 21 Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
THE STORY OF A JACKET.
I. it didn’t fit, so Miss De Smith Rave it to Mary Ann. 2. Mary Ann judged that it didn’t suit her style of beauty. 3, So thei washerwoman
got. it. 4. And it was worth a bottle of schnapps to her. 5. Cheap and elegant, in Paddy’s Market. Joe Brown bought it for his Missus,
o. Result, row.
