

THE BULLETIN
VoL 1.—No. 11.—New Series
SATURDAY, JULY 28, 1883.
Price—6d.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JULY 28, 1888.
Protection Wanted
Amidst the conflict of rival economic theo-
ries, one fact appears to admit of common
agreement. That is that the entire com-
munity, Freetraders and Protectionists alike,
needs protection against bogus Protec-
tionists. The artizan classes in the colony
will especially require to keep a keen ob-
servation upon professing friends among
speculative circles. There has been a mani-
fest intention of making catspaws of opera-
tive workmen and the classes who are in
natural sympathy with them. Frequent
repetitions of such transparent dodges as
have been resorted to in the matter of local
tenders for various railway stock and ma-
terial, would inevitably result in the creation
of so powerful and extended a prejudice
against any claims advanced in the name of
encouragement to local manufactures, that
instead of being helped on, the cause would
be seriously retarded. There is really but
one class essentially and hopelessly opposed
to the encouragement and growth of local
factories. That is the mercantile body—the
importers and commission agents, whose
fortunes are proportionate to the amount of
goods purchased in other countries. The
customers are mainly indifferent as to whence
their supplies are derived, so long as price is
not considerably increased, and quality not
depreciated. Provided these conditions can
be observed, it may be fairly reckoned that
the colonists generally are favourable to any
means whereby local industry may be en-
couraged and local manufactories fostered.
But if the colonists discover that, under
pretence of encouraging local industry,
they are being fleeced for the benefit of
speculative rings, who are in reality only
importers disguised, it will go hard with
genuine local factories which a very slight
preferential legislation or administrative
encouragement would help to the self-
supporting stage.
• •
The instance adduced, with crushing clear-
ness, by Mr. Ninian Melville, M.P., is a
clear case in point. Mr. Melville is a
genuine Protectionist. He proclaimed his
principles long ago, at a time when to be a
Protectionist in N. S. Wales was regarded as
almost tantamount to be disqualified for
public life. Freetrade has been the
economic orthodoxy of the colony so long
that a Protectionist was till lately a sort of
heretic, scoffed as a fool, and smitten as
mischievous. Yet it is only by a tour deforce
that Mr. Melville escaped political extinc-
' tion at the hands of a ring of mock Protec-
tionists, who had nearly succeeded in con-
vincing the artizan classes that he was a
traitor and they the faithful. Their little
game was not protection, but plunder. They
demanded in the name of encouragement to
local industry that tenders for certain public
works should be simultaneously asked for in
the colony and outside of it. This seemed a
genuine movement on behalf of our nascent
industries and our skilled labour. And
things looked very bright when they were
as good as their words to the point of offer-
ing lower prices than English manufac-
turers. But the whole glittering bubble
burst when the truth became known,
that they simplv bought from English
manufacturers and imported nine-tenths
of their material, and worked the oracle
so that the job still paid them. This
game can be very simply managed, on
the spot. The flrst thiug is to combine,
politically, to hoist one of the confederates
into office—the Works office, if possible.
Such trifles as a reformation of a land policy
which has been crushing the life out of the
colony, are as nothing compared with the
attainment of this object. If a newspaper
can be secured by any device —by including
its proprietary in the swim, or by cajoling
a weak or vain director —quite a storm can
be raised and maintained about the ears of
any Administration which refuses to accept
the nominee of the ring. If successful in
this, all the rest is easy. But, even if beaten
at this point, other resources remain. There
are still influences which can be dexterously
brought into play; and matters can be so ar-
ranged that, although, as middlemen, the
ring net smaller profits on its contracts than
would be gained by manufacturers dealing
direct with the colony, compensation can be
had by getting bigger jobs to do. Thus,
where all necessities would be met, and
everyone be satisfied with a shed, so long as
the contract was a mere matter between the
authorities and some English manufacturer;
the local speculator would know how to
work up an agitation for a sort of palace,
and even to get indignation meetings in full
swing because the palace was not at first
conceded. The working man could be in-
cited to arise in his might, by a demonstra-
tion that “some” of the material used (it
might be only a ton of bolts) are of local
manufacture.
• • •
Another and equally efficacious means
would be to throw discredit upon all
material or constructions not provided by
the local speculator. There is a very curious
process going on at this very time, which
deserves particular attention. Some of the
most important and costly structures in
connection with our railways are being in-
vestigated, and one of two things has already
been demonstrated, viz., either that a pro-
digious swindle has been perpetrated upon
this colony in the past, or that a tremendous
job is in contemplation for the immediate
future. It may seem almost incredible, but
we believe it to be literally true, that one
bridge alone, under the mild test of an 81b.
hammer—the mildness of a thumbscrew on
the human hand—has so ill stood this delicate
scrutiny, that fourteen thousand rivets have
been found to be loose!—whether after or
before the application of the sledge-hammer
we do not know—and have been out out and
replaced. Other bridges are receiving simi-
lar dioipline, and shortly no evidence by in-
speotion of their original condition will
remain available.
• « •
If it can be shown, as appears to be the
design, that the British manufacturer is a
common rogue, and scamped work his com-
mercial rule, it will be easy to convince the
legislature that our only safety lies in throw-
ing ourselves upon the superior honesty
of local manufacturers; and, even though
their work be more costly, and their
material apparently inferior, there will be
a saving in having it honestly put
together. Then, indeed, our furnaces would
be shortly in full blast, and their smoke
would, perhaps, serve to obscure the vision
of the people, and to hide from them the
fact that where local adventurers put a ton
of local iron into a bridge, they imported a
hundred from the very manufacturers they
had condemned. Meanwhile, our finest
bridges are being battered in the search for
loose rivets. A rivet costs a few pence at
Lithgow; but something is to be made out
of a hundred thousand-—even though it cost
a shilling each to knock out rivets to make
room, and a shilling each to knock in the
rivets to replace them. This is a suppositious
case, so far as regards the place where the
new rivets are procured; but it serves to
illustrate how far, for the sake of every half-
penny of profit, the people of the colony
might be bled to the tune of a couple of
shillings.
m * *
Or, to take another instance, of sham “en-
couragement to local industry.” A locomo-
tive shed of large size is being built at
Eveleigh. Ordinarily, such a structure has
no architectural pretensions. It is a shed,
simply. And certainly there is nothing in
the surroundings at Eveleigh that call for
ambitious architecture. But this was a work
for which local tenders had to be called, for
the better encouragement of local manu-
factures, and a local tender was accepted.
Consequently, furnaces began to smoke, and
skilled labour to be in demand for the
making ? Not at all. A few weeks since, the
leading English engineering paper called
attention to the fact that the Iron
roof of this shed was being built for
Sydney buyers, in England; and com-
mented upon the odd circumstance that
it is to all intents and purposes a copy of
several large passenger station roofs in Eng-
land and elsewhere, but with a lot of addi-
tions! The same paper complimented this
colony upon the extraordinary prosperity
and immense resources which justified it in
incurring for the roof of a shed a cost which
in poorer countries, such as England, France,
and Belgium, would have been regarded as
considerable for a passenger station I
• • •
Let industry be encouraged, by all means.
That is to say, all fair means. Let us nurse
our nascent manufactures. But, in order
that this may be done, the free and willing
consent of the majority of our people is
necessary. To secure this consent, it will be
requisite to show great advantages—for the
dogmas of absolute Freetrade have been too
long and too deeply rubbed into the minds
of our settlers to be readily eradicated. The
artizan should open his eyes wide, and
beware lest he be fooled by false and pre-
tended friends, who, while making him a
catspaw to pull their own chesnuts out of
the fire, create a complete disgust for the
very name of “ encouragement to local in-
dustry.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Relays of Barmaids.
During the sitting of the Victorian “ Commission
on employes In Shops,” Dr. Beaney, the gay and
dcbonnair, gave evidence. Referring to barmaids,
he approved of the relay system. This, of course,
so far from doing away with the barmaid institu-
tion, would serve to solidify and develop it; and so
the idea is not palatable to those excellent people
who worry themselves a little more about other
people’s morals than about their own. On the
other hand, the notion commends itself to sensible
folk. Dr. Beaney says that when he was in Lon-
don, “ he noticed that at Spiers and Ponds’ (that
firm employs 900 barmaids) there was always a relay
about five o'clock in the evening, and they kept
on until midnight or 1 a.m. He had seen them
coming in (we don’t doubt you, doctor): one corps
would march out from behind the bars, and the
other would walk in and relieve them, like soldiers
relieving the sentry.” One can imagine the little
doctor, all diamonds and dumpiness, enjoying this
spectacle. But it was one to commend Itself to
any sensible observer. It is certain that the em-
ployment of barmaids is popular in these colonies.
The purpose, then, of those who seek to alleviate
MR. W. CLARK
(Of Hill, Clark & Co.)


Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bod-time.
PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6s. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Dejnitnesi,
C. w. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET,
where you can obtain for
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome of all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELISH WHISKY,
6s. per bottle.
YERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *♦* PALE BRANDY,
6s. 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
2s. per bottle.
Market Street , Sydney.
The Rates of Subscription to The Bulletin
are—Forone year,34s.: half-year, 13s.;quarter, 6s
The Advertising Rates arc 5s. per inch;
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 36 consecutive insertions,
15 per cent.: For 53 consecutive insertions, 35 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion.
their position should be to do so in a practical and
common-sonsc tashion. Dr. Beaney shows the way.
Extend rather than cramp the Institution. Instead
of detachments, let us have armies of barmaids. Lot
os have relays of Hebcs. Let us have a dream of fair
women in connection with our nobblors. Praise-
worthy, indeed, should be that reform which not
only provides humanely for the reasonable, hours
of barmaid labour, but which also brings about,
tor the delectation of the public, a variety of bar-
maids, under the relay system. Tall, short, fat,
thin, fair, dark; black hair, brown hair, red hair;
eyes of blue, orbs of grey, or brown, or hazel. All
sorts and sizes
“ Shall show us how divine a thing
A woman may be made”
in the barmaid connection. Really we owe much
to Dr. Beaney, because as upon the principle that
we cannot have too much of a good thing, relays
of barmaids should meet the views of all hopest
folk, who had rather be served to their grog by
the fair hand of lovely woman. By all means let
us have relays of ’em.
Mr. Reid’s Foot.
It is curious to note how little even the class
which, a few years ago, was most active in urging
that the denominational school system should be
abolished, comprehend or respect the principles
which they affecled to urge at that time. A little
gang of ultra-bigots, at Mittagong, are not content
that the local school is non-sectarian. Non-sec-
tarian with them is expected to signify—sectarian!
Just as with some people, religious liberty means
the right to be orthodox, and is not con-
sidered incompatible With persecutions for heresy,
or prosecutions for “ blasphemy.” The colony has
deliberately adopted a system of ignoring sectarian
distinctions in its public schools. The mass of the
people have declared that they are satisfied the
best plan all round is that in State schools only
secular instruction shall bo given. That being the
case, it is immaterial to them who gives the in-
struction, so long as the teacher is competent and
of reputable life. They care no more, and need no
more inquire who teaches their children to read or
write, than who teaches their sons to use a plane
or a hoe. But at Mittagong sundry wiseacres think
otherwise. The school-teacher there is a Homan
Catholic. They are Protestants. Therefore, they
have demanded that the teacher shall be “ re-
moved.” Removed whither ? If this demand
wore conceded, where would a Roman Catholic
teacher find rest for the sole of his foot ? Wo are
glad to see that the Minister for Education know
where to find a place for the sole of his. Mr. Reid
put his foot down on the Mittagong bigots with a
stamp. They threaten to withdraw their children.
Exactly what Dr. Vaughan and the bigottfed
Papists threatened, and did. Bigotry worksjidon-
tically at both ends, it seems. It is comforting to
know that in Mittagong bigotry is not supreme,
and that the general sense has repudiated the
stupid, persecuting spirit of a small and irrational,
although loud and fussy, minority. Mr. Reid took
the manful part in putting his foot down. He
would almost have been justified in raising it up—
and using the toe.
“ It strikes me as rather peculiar,” writes a scur-
rilous correspondent, “ that David Buchanan,
who with such savage enthusiasm advocated the
lash and the gallows in the S. M. Herald some time
ago, should now be found posing In the columns of
the D.T. as the champion of Christianity.” Our
correspondent need not be surprised at anything
Mr. David Buchanan does. David has often
shod bis political skin. He has abused Christianity
and sung the praises of infidelity, in days gone by.
We presume that the liberal and discriminating
editor of the Rum remunerates the distinguished
lawyer who has been so kind as to accept a brief on
behalf of the gentle and lowly Nazarene. We pre-
sume, also, that were the Saviour of men to re-
appear on earth to-morrow, the “etiquette of the
bar” would not prevent Mr. David Buchanan, or
any other great legal luminary, from acting as the
Devil’s advocate and accepting a brief for the pro-
secution. However, we are satisfied. Buchanan
thinks one thing— Huxley, Buckle, Mill, Spen-
cer, Comte, and Strauss another: B,uchanan is
right.
Milk and tomato diet, neat, said to cure
Bright’s disease.
There is, it is said, a boy in Topeka who
has an alligator hide. It is needless to state that
his dad is the local editor.
O Dailey, Dailey, and do you really mean
to say that, when you meet John Lucas in the
Council, he seems to you as one of the flowers at
LInnthony did to Landor, something sweet and
gracious and pure ?
Dr. Emery Gould, formerly of Collins-
street, Melbourne, who had of late been practising
at Wollongong, died somewhat suddenly in that
town last week. The body has been removed to
Melbourne for burial.
When an ad. appeared in the Herald
offering a liberal price for a “common street
organ,’’ it is rumoured that the advertiser got a
memo, in reply to the effect—“ What’s your flgger,
including the Town and Kuntry ? Repply.”
They’ve been collecting money for the
Pope in Gundagai. Well done! “Peter’s Pence,”
they call it. and this year’s collection was the
largest ever known there. It’s a good thing to be
a Pope. The next best thing to being either an
apostle or a railway-contractor.
It would be impossible, of course, to sur-
pass Mr. John Davlesln his own line—orthography.
A person turned up the other day, however, who
can fairly claim to tie him—in meanings, if not in
spelling. This ’cute chan described a theodolite as
“ a man who hates God.” Now then, John; you’ll
cave to stir yourself up a bit, or this fellow will
beat you.
The Chicago Tribune asserts that St.
Jacobs Oil is “ the most remarkable remedy that
has yet been discovered.” In this statement, well
intended as it is, there is a serious flaw. It is
ambiguous. We intend to say something quite
free trom ambiguity. It is said by many that the
chronic ailments of twenty years, which resisted
alike the science of the physician and the charla-
tanry of the quack, have quite disappeared since
they' tried 8t. Jacobs Oil. It is dally becoming
more popular.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“L.W.”: (1) We don’t know any numis-
matist In Sydney. (2) Wc think it is genuine,
though “coins of the Homan Emperors are turned
out by the hundred at Birmingham, together with
relics from Herculaneum and Pompeii, and urns
and soup-tUreens from Nineveh.” “ E.S.J.”: We
don’t see why, merely because someone connected
with the office has an orthodox father-in-law who
preaches, the unfortunate few who read ihe
paper should be delivered over to the galimatias
of David Buchanan or the jeremiads of “apioue
father,” or “ A mother who Sunday
schools.” (3) Angus Mackay was inclined to be a
freethinker—on the few occasions when he did
manage to think. (3) The concern appears to be
now run on the narrowest of orthodox lines by a
sort of holy family. That’s how the tbilk-gLts into
the coeoanut “Peter Blank”: You shouldn’t
have put it into aboriginal verso. It would have
boon better in blank verse. But we don’t think
much of Peter Blank verse. If wc printed It, the
meekest eyed man on the continent would seize
his poll-axe....“ Baringura We know all about
the assault on “ Rov.” Peter Campbell. He wanted
to lecture to you on honesty and virtue. It is evi-
dently a great mistake to start such themes at
Bartngum. You should have let the holy old boy
give his “ interesting, evangelical, impressive,
and pictorial discourse.” That would have paid
his way to the next township, whore ho would
have dosed the yokels with biblical, medi-
cinal, unsectarian, and jphilanthroplcal bosh —
“W.C.B.H,”! Thanks.Emu Not good enough
..“ J. A.B.”: They will be safely kept. The “ Sham
Charity ” story seems good — “Beualla”: No ; he
wrote “ Lays of To-day,” which, it may safely be
said, will never beJLays of To-morrow — “ J.M. ”:
Wo meant that we would road it as soon as wo
found time. We agree with you about the work.
Magnificent “E. Williams”: Wo don’t deal in
such wares “ E.S.J.”: You should tee Mr. Good-
chap. And then, if you can’t sleep in the cars,
take a bottle of brandy and a half-pound chloral
hydrate. That will set you to sleep—for ever...
“ Muff ”: Capital. But as the “ Lush ” Item would
bring about a shaking of wigs, w«i leave it out—
“ W.O.P.”: You say your friend’s “ comic poem”
was printed for “ private circulation.” Well, if he
takes our advice he will circulate it very privately
indeed—among the bullfrogs, in the summer—
“W.H.U.”: Your caligraphy is of so painfully
hieroglyphic a character that we can offer no
opinion as to the merits of your story. A man
cursed with a hand like yours needs a literary repu-
tation to start with. The average of suicide among
Frlnters is already somewhat high “D.": We're
nil up, now, of the man that's “ dead drunk.” Let
him lie . “Armagnac”: The quotation runs thus
—“ Have you ever thought, reader, what it must
be for a man to achieve social success in his shirt-
sleeves ? With what brawny arms and muscles of
iron he must have fought out his long light ?” But
when the author of “George Geith ” wrote this, ho
didn’t mean to include the grovelling temperance
lodge and public-house “ working-man ” politi-
cians who are so eager to assume broadcloth —
“ L.D.”: Kindly inform us how a zephyr can “sink
beneath its whispered own Amen,” or a southerly
buster rise above its ejaculated own Blast?
“M. McM.”: Sunday school picnic yarns would
shock our demure readers—“P.J.T.”: Not ex-
citing enough “Veritas”: We cannot take up
the case.. .“Hopeful”: Your story is pretty fair.
You ought to see our office boy burning the
“pretty tair” things every week. It's huge sport..
“ B.B” (Surry Hills): Exceedingly pretty ideas, but
rather crude for publication. Very creditable,
though, for a fifteen-year-old “ M. W. 8.”
(Kerguelen Land): How can you expect a corpora-
tion composed mainly of butchers and grog-sellers
to have any regard for cleanliness ? Do you imagine
that a human being who has more than halt his
life waded knee-deep in ordure, or sold nobblers of
fire-water to bulbous-nosed sots, can possibly be
delicate in his tastes ? No, dear sir. If you want
municipal cleanliness, elect functionaries whose
occupations are cleanly. How can you expect
sensitiveness and aestheticism in men whose
lot is cast among brutality and sausages ?
“Mascotte”: We thought everybody in the
colonies knew by ihis time that “ The Vagabond”
had gone to the New Hebrides “S.W.,’: We are
not aware that more than three newspaper cor-
respondents—the representatives of the Argus,
Age, and S.M. Herald—are en mute to New
Guinea “ D.H.”: The sample you send is devoid
of Australian colouring, and has no literary merit
to recommend it “Henry J.Q.”: W.P. basket...
“ E.J.”: It is stated that a writ for £500 (money he
borrowed from a former colleague whose political
life was an inglorious fizzle), was served upon the
great man prior to his departure from the colony..
“M.J.” (Hay): It’s clever, but is it original? —
“L.J.”: We haven’t heard anything more re the
Beresford-Jem Mace fight. We notice that nothing
is said in the “respectable papers” about the
“ disgracefulness” of the exhibition. The Prince
of Wales was present. “ Loyalty,” you know...
“M. Thamat’ : We presume that the proposed
Melbourne-Sydney express train will run straight
through, barring absolutely unavoidable stop-
pages “Ferguson”: You cannot have read the
late Act. Assuming its being carried out, a man
can be Hogged for almost anything. No more
loathsome crimes are committed in N. S. W. than
in France. France does not fiog since the Revolu-
tion. We don’t care a brass farthing for the
humiliation of the criminal. It is for ourselves we
feel humiliated in belonging to a small community
where torture flourishes. Suppose we put it like
this: Are our larrikins worse than the scum of
Germany ? If they are not, why flog them ? If
they are, then what answer will the armies of
priests give when accused of permitting this dank
undergrowth of blackguardism to cover the laud
while they wrangle concerning the temperature
of hell?—“D.A.C.”: Engineering Exhibition
article unsuitable. Will read the tale—“Coo-
nanbarabi Bey”: Too hot. ... "Boehme” :
“ Jenny” is dead. Her animation was too long sus-
pended “H.W.C.”: Thanks “H.R.”: Re-
ceived “Omega”: To hand “C.J.C.”: Merely
a variation of a much better story we told some
time ago “J. C. Cox”: The sketch would
scarcely explain itself “ R.W.”: Good; will pro-
bably use ...“D.A.C.”: Unsuitable; declined with
thanks “Ortie”: Will see whether wc can’t
make a rhythmical traduction “Wires”; Re-
ceived “ W.R.S.”: Thanks. The “ boot” incident
we alluded to last week “P.”: Held over—
“J.B.P.”: Yes, “Under the Paint” is very good;
will yet appear “W.D.” (Bmmaville): No, we
don’t insert personal hiis ti oblige anyone —
“F.A.B.”: Verses under attention....“Ad lib.”:
Good, but lengthy. We mustshorten. Repeatthe
dose any time “M.J.J.” (Brisbane): What else
can you expect from Sir Arthur—the man to whom
a Queensland M.L.A., a few years ago, neatly
alluded as “a demoralised bullock-puncher?” —
“Hobart”: Get any respectable firm of solicitors
to make a search “Anonymous”: If we took
advioe from every prurient-minded idiot and
wooded-headed dolt, The Bulletin would very
soon cease to exist. “ Her Story,” we consider,
pointed a very strong moral indeed—"Young
America ”: A single engine, with carriage attached,
has run between 70 and 80 miles within the hour,
bnt we don’t think there is any authenticated
record of 80 miles “One of the Three Gentle-
men”: Told in The Bulletin eighteen mouths
ago....“Nonce”: No. State aid to religion has
been abolished in N.S.W. However, a few clergy-
men of the old regime still receive salaries from
the Treasury —[A vast number of communica-
tions must stand over till next week.]
We do not undertake to return rejected
communications. Writers should keep copies.
We are desirous of procuring short stories
of colonial interest, not exceeding two Bulletin
columns. We are also desirous of receiving commu-
nications from ladies on subjects of social interest.
For such matters we are prepared to pay liberally.
Suggestions for sketches are always welcome.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Joseph O’Brien, a navvy, was recently
killed in the Prospect Waterworks tunnel. His
mates hadn’t “ known him for forty years,” but
they heard Joe had left a widow, and so they sent
round the hat and scooped £100 for her. Those are
men of true grit Telegraph Point is forging
steadily ahead. They have started an Orange lodge
there. With the exception of the Salvation Army
or a leper camp, there is scarcely anything that
makes life so pleasant in a small country town as
an Orange lodge The Moreton’s Creek people
have got a wharf at last. From a pretty extensive
experience, wo have come to the conclusion that
the construction of a wharf is the first step in the
decadence of a town. The facilities it gives for
commerce are insignificant compared with those
for loafing. It is the wharf-loafer alone
really be said to bo an artist—Cooma
municipality is still in want of a duly qualified
clerlcwho will act as surveyor, public scavenger,
town fcrier, boot-black, &o., at a small screw. Pre-
vious experience in the P.R. absoutely necessary.
Some riover recently walked off with 700 sheep
of John Meagher’s, of Stonotteld (Vic.) They were
branded with a square, but taken on the cross, a
fact which affords but meagre satisfaction to John.
...Garrett’s Albury “Land Question” lecture
scooped in £9 Us. for Tom Boyd — Rose, the
daughter of Boniface Murray, of Orange, took an
overdose of laudanum for toothache the other day
with fatal result. Verdict, accidental death... A
Frenchman has offered the Victorian Government
a patent for killing rabbits. The inventor says it
will do lust as well against men in war time. We
used to think the warriors of the present day were
much fiercer than rabbits. But, then, we had no
knowledge of Madagascar and Tonquin —For
marrrying three wives, a Mr. Walter obtained a
six years 7 Government job, at Sydney Central
Criminal Court. His misfortunes were not attri-
butable to lovely woman alone. His views on
meum and tuum were of a phenomenally loose and
elementary character. He’d been in trouble before.
At Moliagul (Vic.), the other day, miner Sped-
ding cut his throat and ripped up his abdomen in a
fit of D.T. So that we have at last in the colonies
that time-honoured Japanese custom, the “ Happy
Dispatch.” Rum-drinkin'< includes all other
evils 18 Chinese, who left Cooktown for
Hongkong the other day, took with them 932 oz.of
gold from the Palmer alluvial, principally got near
Revolver Point 35,759 cattle preserved and
boiled down in Queensland in 1882. ..English
frozen meat trade looking up, as also are meat
prices in Australia....A N.S.W. bucolic paper
tells us that: “ Master Walter Franklin, a country
lad who joined the warship Diamond, is now
‘ Captain’s valet,’ with a fair prospect of rising to
the position of captain by and bye.” Singular life
this country life is. Appears to be chiefly taken
up with praying for rain, or starting testimonials
for policemen and publicans. Stirring town it
must be where the position and prospects of the
Captain’s valet are gravely canvassed by the local
newspaper Rebecca Anderson nearly preserved
whole by the Melbourne Red Cross Jam Company.
Fell into cauldron, removed to hospital, and thence
to cemetery ... Aborigines Protection Board have
supplied 2(50 suits of clothes to Grafton blacks—
Artesian well struck last week near Snowdon, 8.A.,
at the 160ft. down; 2000 gallons per hour. Your
real bore is invariably a prodigious spouter
Brightonians (Vic.) collecting funds to reimburse
the father of the girl Griffin, recently prosecuted
tor forgery. They stoutly contend that she’s the
"straight Griffin ” Nuisances Prevention Act to
come into operation at wjicannia on 1st September
next. Mem. for Peter Campbell.. Manoah Lodge of
Scottish Constitution No. 567 only teetotal Masonic
Lodge in Sydney. Tea and toasts! .. Hunt, ex-
Promier, of Samoa, has recovered £100 damages in
Supreme Court, Auckland (N.Z.), against High
Commissioner Gordon, for false imprisonment.
Jury said they were sorry the law didn’t permit
of their awarding more If a thing is worth
doing at all it is worth doing well. The other day
a Dunolly (Vic.) person put 200 battens on the
railway line, and fastened them. He then went a
little bit away and sat down to the double enjoy-
ment of a sandwich in esse and a smash in
posse. But the wily driver saw the game
Swamp rice is being planted extensively in the
Northern territory by Messrs. Cloppenburg and
Eriksen A skeleton, supposed to be that of Mr.
Dalton, P.M., who three years ago left Grenfell en
route for Barmedman, has been found in the bush
near Wyalong....Mr. Blank, of Adelaide, bought
land at £l0 an acre and sold it to a friend for £30.
He sold it through an agent, and led his friend to
believe that ho (Blank) was a buyer instead of a
seller. The usual lawsuit followed, but the
friend was “potted.” Blank is a holy man,
and has some more cheap land for sale
A young lady has written to the Wilcannia gaoler,
saying that his prison “is the nicest gaol she ever
was in.”.... A woman brought up at Bathurst the
other day figured in the charge-sheet as “ Mary
Murphy alias Dillon alias The Rip alias Carey the
Informer alias The Irish Jewess.”... The Southern
Star is dead. Hobart is thus once more handed
over to the mercies of one paper—the Mercury. ..
“ H.S.” has written a pamplet on the Peak Downs
Copper-mine, the lesson intended to be learned
from which is that bad management will spoil the
best mining property in the world, and that, in
spite of past failures, a splendid future yet awaits
the Peak Downs Copper-mine when capital is
applied with skill and perseverance... .The Day
Dawn Co.’s (Charters Towers) last crushing was
370 tons for 786 oz. gold. Dividend, £1200
Tom Roche, a Crossley (near Koroit, Vic.) publican
suicided last week Armidale has testimonialised
Bray, late C.P.S., who goes to Casino as P.M.: figure
100 sovs. The Chinese of Armidale district also
made up a purse for him... .Total damage to roads
and bridges in Coromandel district (N.Z J by recent
storm floods £12,000 Mr. Matthew Duffy, for
throwing a pickle bottle at his wife, kicking her in
the left eye and about the body promiscuously,
was sent up last week for three months—a sentence
altogether disproportionate to the offence, dear
Crane The mixtures which the most experi-
enced chemist in Shoalhaven made up for those
who had dallied too long at the South Coast ban-
quets wore several hogsheads of pick-me-up, B.
and S. in bulk, and a ton of Cockle’s pills —R. R.
Terry, in an hysterrycal letter to Garranny, de-
clares that he is not a member of a syndicate of
land jobbers; that the Ryde tramway he advocates
won’t put a penny in his pocket; and that Wright’s
wrong Carter and Hooper, with Mrs. Carter-
Hooper or Hooper-Carter, to answer a charge of
conspiracy at Melbourne City Court on Friday...
Garranny says that Sir Astley Cooper and Sir
Andrew Clarke have approved ot Major Softgoo—
no, Sargood’s scheme of Victorian defence. We
presume the old lady refers to Sir Astley
Cooper Key (senior naval lord of the Admir-
alty) when she speaks of “ Sir Astley Cooper.” —
When It was realised that Sladen had mislaid his
lecture containing the wind up of the voyages of
Columbus, a cheery “ Thank Heaven” wentaround
the crowd. .The Wilcannia Waltbrus chronicles
with much spirit a local item of considerable im-
portance. It was the presentation to its proprietor
of a 1041 b. cabbage. It is needless to add that this
contribution received immediate attention, plenty
of space being found for its insertion Master
William Coady, of Mogong, has captured in the
Nangar Mountains, near Canowiudra, a dingo slut
and eight pups. The sheep farmers of those parts
owe young Coady a debt of gratitude—At Arrai-
dale, one Douglas went out to look for a horse,
and hanged himself with the halter he carried.
Having altered his mind, he haltered his body
The Launceston Customs came down like a wolf
on the fold upon Morris Coen and his portmanteau,
in which they found beneath some old clothes a lot
of dutiable jewellery. Coen is now a Jew-ill with
vexation Mais, South Australian Engineer-in-
Chief, after his enquiries into cost ot iron bridge
making, etc., in America, still holds to the idea
that the Murray bridge route will be the best for
the intercolonial railway to Victoria—Indian
corn doctor Winter committed for trial, fraudulent
insolvency. The little game was to buy on long
credit, sell for cash dirt cheap, and leave the little
bills to Providence, who doesn’t seem inclined to
meet ’em. . .Bones of a gigantic marsupial dis-
covered at Winninowie (8.A.) —
Found in a tank where limestone so shelly is v
There he’s embedded and keeping right well he is,
Look at his jaw and you’ll guess whatsis belly i 8 .
Hail to this monster marsupiatherion >,
Owen’s to have him to build a new ora on.
* * *
In Madagascar, which is nearer to England
than is Australia, you can buy splendid bullocks,
weighing on an average 7501bs, for J(is. to £1 each..
The old saurians are not all go e dead, if
Captain Augustus Hall and the crew of the Annie
L. Hall arc men of truth. This is what they say
“ On March 30th, while on the Grand Bank, in lati-
tude 40 degrees 10 minutes, longitude 33 degrees,
they discovered an immense live trunk turtle,
which was at first thought to be a vessel bottom
up. The schooner passed within twenty-five feet
of the monstor, and those on board had ample
opportunity to estimate its dimensions by a com-
parison with the length of the schooner. The
turtle was at least 40 feet long, 30 feet wide, and 30
feet from the apex of the back to the bottom of
the under shell. The flippers were 30 feet long.
It was not deemed advisable to attempt its cap-
ture.”.. . .There are big frogs in Japan. An officer
travelling along with a recent traveller in that
quarter of the globe affirmed, with many an oath,
that hv had seen a frog at Tokio so large that it re-
quired two men to lift him, and that when they set
him down he would gallop off on all fours “just
like a racehorse!” He repeated that he would be
everlastingly lost in a future state of existence if
he had not with his own eyes seen this running
frog; further, that he would wager a very large
amount of money that this running frog could
easily outstrip the fastest horse that ever ran in a
race; he was convinced he was in imminent peril
of everlasting perdition, both as regarded his body
and his soul, if ho did not believe that this running
frog, this extraordinary animal, could roach Yoko-
hama long before the train could. “ For,” said he,
“the train stops at all the stations, but I
am if the frog would!’” — A.U.8. ship took
cholera into Japan, and cholera killed 300,000 peo-
ple in Yeddo alone The new Cunard liner, the
Aurania, on her trial trip attained the extra-
ordinary speed of 18 7 knots, which is equal to 31
land miles an hour. This looks like beating the
Alaska, the famous “ greyhound of the Atlantic.”
The Aurania is a vessel of 7300 tons.. 8000 telegraphic
operators on strike in the United States—
Majority of British troops removed from Cairo to
Suez London Times has commenced a halfpenny
evening edition — Causes of British insanity:
hereditary or congenital, 34 per cent; drunken-
ness, 14; business and anxiety, 12; loss of friends,
10; accidents, 6; various causes, 33 per cent—The
arrangements made by Admiral Pierre for the
funeral of Consul Pakenham at Tamatave were
of an imposing character. Pakenham, it is said,
was baptised into the Roman Catholin Church a
short while before his death.*
The editor of the Inverell Argus con-
siders that the once popular delusion that news-
paper men could live on air is exploded. On the
question of living on rum he is discreetly silent.
But perhaps this is not a “ popular delusion.”
We learn that babies are on sale in London
at very reasonable prices. They are quoted at
from Is to 80s inclusive. And this also reminds us
that the Good Templar movement is making enor-
mous strides in the “great city.” Thus we em-
body two items in the one par.
The boss bun-struggle of the year was held
some days ago at St. Andrew’s schoolroom, Pitt-
streot. The piece de resistance was 250 Chinese
converts, who sanor hymns in their native tongue,
and had the sermon interpreted to them by Mr.
Soo Hoo Ten. It was the music and the tea they
appeared to enjoy most. This is scarcely to be
wondered at, considering their acquaintance with
“thorough bass” and with that mysterious com-
pound which goes by the name of “ tea" at muffin-
worries and hash-houses. How quickly these in-
genious people fall into our ways. Why, it was
only the other day that one of them in Broadway
doubled up an Israelite with the handle of a hoe,
remarking.at the same time “You Jew! you
kill Mellican man’s Joss.”


ONLY!
$
This cut is the exact size
and appearance of
THE REVOLVER for ONE POUND!
A beautifully-finished article, nickel-plated through-
out, vulcanite stock. 32 calibre ; 5 shot.
Sent to any part of iVustralia or New Zealand for £1.
Oriental Gold Company, 474 George-st., Sydney.
Oriental Gold!
This Magnificent Metal-the latest discovery of
.Hence—puts In the shade every substitute for
riina gold ever offered to the public. The best
imitations heretofore produced are entirely super-
seded and surpassed by the
Brilliant Lustre and Enduring Beauty
the new alloy. So admirable is Its appearance
a duality, that the discoverers have not stooped
Bn< Vniv it to common uses. No tawdry articles of
Inferior design are manufactured of ORIENTAL
GOLD. It is worked up into
tvWRLLEBY OF THE BEST CLASS AND MOST
tasteful designs only,
And i* perfectly indistinguishable from the most
A costly Jewellery.
The highest grades of Sterling Gold Jewellery
be placed side by side with articles of Oriental
Gold, and the most experienced experts fail to dis-
tinguish one from the other.
The Oriental Gold Co.
Have Opened a
SYDNEY BRANCH IN GEORGE STREET,
Exactly opposite the Central Entrance to the Mar-
kets, where they have presented to public view
In Assortmhnt of Unequalled Beauty
At Prices which represent only a fraction of the
cost of Sterling Gold Jewellery of Identical
Workmanship.
RESIDENTS of SYDNEY and VISITORS from
the COUNTRY are respectfully invited to inspect
our Goods. We count it no trouble to show them,
and no injury if no purchase is made.
We are glad to have visitors, because we know
that our goods please everyone, and that those who
do not purchase will speak of our Jewellery to
their acquaintance in a way that will do us service’
We want to do business with people throughout
Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
PARCELS BY POST ON APPROVAL.
To save customers the trouble of compiling a
list, we make up useful and attractive lists as
follows
NO. 1.
Gentleman’s Watch, horizontal movement,
Oriental Gold case, open face with crys-
tal glass, with handsome Oriental Gold
Albert, for "£3 0 0
No. 5.
Same as No. 4, except that the Watch has
sterling sliver hunting case, with chain
as before .. .. .. .. .. 3 10 0
Note.— We buy these watches by the thousand;
otherwise we could not sell them at the price.
Sportsmen, Bicyclists, Pedestrians, and
Oarsmen—Observe 1
No. 6.
A Racing Chronograph nickel-cased watch,
double dials, splendid timekeepers,
with patent fly-back, marking quarter
seconds, with Oriental Gold Albert... £4 0 0
No. 7.
Same as above, except that this case is
silver instead of nickel, with Oriental
Gold Chain 550
Ladies 1 Please Note.
No. 8.
Oriental Gold Watch, handsomely
chased case, full jewelled, highly-
finished works, with handsome treble
chain, two slides and two tassels, of
Oriental Gold, only .. 3 15 0
The above is a gift which will astonish any re-
cipient. Each article is thoroughly good. The
action of the watch is identical with what is put
into sterling gold cases, of same design, and sold
for £8 and £10, and there is no difference in the
appearance.
No. 9.
Lady’s Oriental Gold Brooch and Earrings £0 15 0
Lady’s exquisite Necklet and Locket, Ori-
ental Gold 1 15 0
Lady’s gem set Gold Ring (real stones) .. 0 10 0
£3 0 0
The above is a gift packet, specially selected
from our stock at specially low rates for the assort-
ment.
The foregoing are but a few assortments speci-
fied to save customers the trouble of making a list.
It will be sufficient when ordering to give the
number of the lot, and enclose P.O.O. tor the
amount Payable to The Oriental Gold Co.
Specally Observe.— If the articles do not an-
swer expectation on receipt, rc-pack them at once
and send them back. If this Is done within two
days, or, where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured, wo
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will return the
money for the articles not kept.
Every watch sold by us will be rated and accom-
panied by a written warranty for two years.
"We have a very large stock of Earrings, Brooches,
ladies and gent’s Alberts, Rings set with real stones,
crystals, and Alaska diamonds, emeralds, rubies,
and Italian pearls ; Lockets, Necklets, Collarettes,
Fancy Charms, Breast-pins, Studs, Solitaire Neck
Studs (some very splendid Alaska brilliants). The
prices vary.
Send us from £1 to £10, with a list of what you
want, and we will make a choice for you to the
best of our judgment and forward same. If not
approved, and immediately returned, we will
refund as above, or make any desired substitution-
{Jo. 2.
Same as above, except that the watch has
hunting case, for 2 0 0
py* Please observe. We do not pretend that
these are fifty-guinea watches ; but wo do affirm
that they are good, honest watches, excellent time-
keepers, articles which do us credit and give satis-
faction to our customers. In appearance they are
indistinguishable from expensive gold watches.
No. 3.
Gentleman’s Silver English Hunting Lever
Watch, capped and jewelled, with Ori-
ental Gold Chain £4 4 0
Oriental Gold Compass Charm .. 0 12 6
Tasteful Breast-pin, Oriental Gold .. ..076
Brilliant Alaska Diamond, Oriental Gold
Bing: 076
Oriental Gold Shirt Studs, set of four ..086
£6 0 0
The watch in the above parcel is a first-class
article, such as is usually sold at from six to seven
guineas. We deal direct with the manufacturers,
and on a large scale, and thus wo get special terms,
and are enabled to share the advantage with our
customers. The Jewellery, wo need scarcely say,
can’t be told from sterling gold articles. The work-
manship is identical with the best. Thus, by buy-
ing this watch from us, purchasers, as a matter of
fact, secure the other articles as a free gift.
No. 4,
A genuine Waltham Watch, nickel case,
open face, crystal glass, as supplied to
the N.S. Wales Railway Department,
with splendid Oriental Gold Albert ..£8 0 0
Note the Address : 474 GEORGE STREET, Ooposite Markets.
VIRTUTIS GLORIA. MERGES.
COALCLIFF COAL.
This NEWEST and
NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY supplies the CHEAPEST, CLEANEST, and
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony,
£1 per Ton net, delivered within city bounds.
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and bars'kept well free from ash, makes a stronger,
more lasting, and cleaner Are that any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky flare and soot of
Newcastle coal, nor does it splinter and fly off like the Western, but it affords that domestic desideratum
of some kinds of English coal of heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a
charcoal or breeze fire, while it imparts to the steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwhole-
some fumes given off by a breeze or gas fire.
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
Office: A. B. BLACK, 247 George Street.
DEPOT : WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
BOOTH’S
Hydropathic Bathing Establishment,
Corner of College & Oxford Sts., Hyde Park,
w.
&otS
THE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO.
8
are the largest consumers off American
I, Leaf in the colonies, hence the FIRST
" position for quality is assigned to their Twist
and Flat Tobaccos —Yankee Doodle, Conqueror, Sir Roger (thick
twist), R. C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture, and others.
CIGARETTES.— Their CONQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold an equal position,
jcgr’p. & Importers of Pipes of every kind, Cigars, and all Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods and Sundries.
H. P. GREGORY.
H. SHAW SMITH.
S. W. GREGORY.
a*
Engineers & Machinery Merchants
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR
Fay & Co.’s Woodworking Machinery Korting’s'Injectors
Tanite Co.’s Emery Wheels and Machines Eclipse Windmills
Blake’s Brass-lined Special Steam Pumps Sturtevant s Ians.
A LARGE STOCK OF THE ABOVE ALWAYS IN OUR STORES,
as well as all
SAW MILL, PLANING MILL, AND MINING REQUISITES,
17 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
A. A. DEBNEY & CO.,
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
PORTMANTEAUX. BAGS,
J2gr TRUNKS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
A. A. DEBNEY & CO.,
Have just opened a large Shipment of Superior
|^-HOSIERY, MERCERY, SCARFS, TIES,
COLLARS, and EVERY REQUISITE
FOR GENTLEMEN’S TOILETS.
SHIRTS
Cut after the Latest London Styles, by an expe-
rienced London Cutter.
N.B.—Country Orders receive Special Attention.
A. A. DEBNEY & CO.,
Successors to Hobson and Whiting,
13 HUNTER STREET,
Mulliner. leamington.-stan-
HOPE PHAETONS ; DOG, TANDEM, and
SPORTING CARTS; Barouches, Laudaus, Coaches,
Harness, &c., Builder to H.M. the Queen, H.I.M.
the Empress of Austria, His Grace the Duke
of Beaufort, &c., &c. Orders telegraphed (30s.)
and executed in seven weeks. English prices.
Coloured designs of latest fashions kept in stock.
WILKINSON, WILLIAMS & CO.,
Boyle's Chambers, Bond Street, Sydney,
Sole Agent* for Australia, New Zealand, Tasmania.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general.']
RACING.
Townsville T.C July 36, 37.
Cannonbar J.C July 31.
Richmond River J.C August 3, 3.
Geelong Winter. August 3.
A.R.C. Steeplechase (S.A.) August 4, 6.
Maryborough (Q.) T.C August 9,10.
Tattersall’s Club August 11.
Sale T.C. (Vic.) August 13.
Llsmore J.C ' August 16,17.
Hawkesbury R.C August 23, 35.
A.J.C. Spring September 1, 4, 6, 8.
Bathurst J.C. September 18,14.
Northern J.C September 19, 31.
Dubbo J.C September 31, 33.
Narrabri J.C October 3, 4.
Sydney Turf Club Octobor6.
Victoria Amateur T.C October 13, 20.
Wollongong T.C October 17,18.
Victoria R.C. Spring November 3,6,8,10.
Parramatta J.C. November 9.
Clarence River J.C. (Amateur) November ».
Murrumbidgee T.C November 31, 23, 38.
Narandera J.C November 39, 30.
Liverpool J.C December 33.
AQUATICS
Trickett v. Beach July 28.
Sydney Rowing Club Regatta July 38,
New South Wale* Association Regatta ..October 6.
COURSING
Candelo Club July 36, 37, 38.
Victoria Club August 33.
Ballarat Club July 36, August 38.
N.8.W. Club July 31, August 10.
Australian Club July 37, August 39.
ATHLETICS.
University Athletic Sports August 1.
Edwards v. O’Leary, 6 days’ walk August 6.
St. Kllda College Sports August 8.
Six Days’ Walking Sweepstakes, Sydney
August 6 to 13.
B. Murphy v. W. Franks, mile walk...September 6,
Wallsend Athletic Club Meeting November 9.
BICYCLING.
Sydney B.C. Sports August 4.
FOOTBALL.
Sydney v. Brisbane Clubs, at Brisbane
.... August 15,16,18, 23.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Gipsy Cooper is going to the stud.
The close season—from 1st August to 30th
February.
Jockeys Tom. Pickard, Archie M‘Innes,
and M’Sorley died last week.
Sydney footballers to play a match at
Roma (Q.) in place of Toowoomba, as was intended.
Mr. Hordern’s pigeons A and DB flew in
from Gunning to Sydney, 165 miles, in 146 minutes.
Poor old England! Bubear is willing to
scull any man in America, bar six! Australia
would only have to bar one.
The Aplitt-Malone race did not come off
on Saturday, as, at the last moment, it was found
that the Agricultural Society’s ground was not
available.
At Melbourne, on Thursday last, Owen
Friend shot 17 birds, and won the champion pigeon
match of £100 and a medal worth £10. F. Gannon
was the “runner up.”
Preparations are being made to hold a
football tournament in Wellington, N.Z., for the
purpose of selecting a representative team to play
against the Sydney clubs.
Mr. R. K. Maitland returned to India some
thousands lighter, Corlolanus having disappointed
him upon several occasions. He has left The
Wandering Jew in Mr. J. D. Robertson’s hands.
The entire horse Star attacked a young
man who was riding through a paddock at Goola-
gong. He seized him by the wrist, and dragged
him about ten yards, breaking the arm.
The thoroughbred stallion Marvel, recently
killed on the Cynisca, did not justify his name, un-
less in an upside-down fashion, on the English turf.
He started 33 times, and only won a welter race.
Geraldton, W.A., is going to have a gym-
nasium. Melbourne has six, but Sydney has only
one. But let us not repine. We have a big Y.M.C,
Association, and a nice lot of churches. Halle-
lujah 1
Hearn and Harrington, the N.Z. scullers,
have been unable to come to any satisfactory ar-
rangements with regard to their proposed race.
Harrington seems a capital hand at rowing races—
in the columns of the newspapers.
Old Terminus is worth a good many dead
’uns yet. He ran second in the Warbreccan Han-
dicap at Deniliquin. C. Roberts is serving a sen-
tence of seven years for an attempt to cut Ter-
minus’ throat.
“ Yankee Barton,” on 27th ultimo, at New
York, defeated the champion athlete, Duncan C.
Ross, in throwing the horse-shoe. He threw 143
feet. Barton is 65 years of age, and on one occa-
sion threw a 17oz. shoe 186 feet.
On July 20, Hanlan beat Wallace Ross by
some twenty lengths. Wo add on our own respon-
sibillty that after the race Hanlan went on to the
balcony and stated that Wallace was a perfect
gentleman, and it was the hardest race he ever
rowed.
At the Port Augusta (S.A.) rao s M’Sorley,
the rider of Hawk, came down at the first fence.
The horse smashed in his chest, and he died shortly
afterwards. Trump Yoss won the Port Augusta
Cup, and was defeated by Brigand in the Flinders
Handicap.
The bicycle mania has about reached its
height in Melbourne. At the funeral of a mem-
ber of one of the clubs, ten other members fol-
lowed the remains to the grave, each leading
a machine, and another idiot led the “ dead-un s
bicycle in the procession.
The totalisator is doomed in South Aus-
tralia, despite the fact that it now represents some
vested interests and capital. Sim. Barnard says
“the apparatus can’t lie,” but one M.P. gave as
his reason for cutting the machine the fact that he
was a “ total lies hater.”
P. M‘Dermott, who styles himself, “long-
distance champion walker of Australia ” —a title,
his claim to which he will, in all probability, soon
establish —announces that, at Bourke, on 30th inst.,
he will commence an attempt to walk 300 miles in
66 hours.
Amongst the football matches played in
the country on Saturday last, the Northumberland
bested the ‘Wallsends at West Maitland; at Muswell-
brook, the local team defeated the Murrurundians;
and, at Newcastle, the Parramatta men were over-
come by three goals and four tries to nil.
At the instance of Earl Cadogan, senior
steward of the Jockey Club, ready-money betting
has been prohibited m Tattersall’s Ring, London,
England, and it was put down with a stern hand at
Newmarket during the week ending April 14.
Similar action was recently taken at Randwick in
the case of Sutton, the English bookmaker.
“Pendragon,” the London sporting autho-
rity, says that all the English pugilists who have
returned from America have expressed a sovereign
contempt for American boxing and boxer’s. Of
course this was before the Sullivan-Mitchell bout.
By the way, “ Pen.” had the same estimate of Aus-
tralian scullers till Laycock rowed down all the
Englishmen who met him.
A Melbourne man advertises that he has
made during the past ten years from £3000 to £5000
a year by systematic betting on horse-racing, but
as he is in want of £1500 he will sell his secret for
that price. This reads like a genuine affair, and if
next door’s cat hadn’t broken our milk-jug we
don’t know that we wouldn’t speculate. As it
is, we give (with a sigh) the world a chance.
Edwards on the same old “fad.” Will
take fair odds that he covers over 500 miles in the
coming six days’ walk. By the way, ho states he is
willing to give M'Dermott his choice of distance
and walk for £100 aside. M’Dermott is credited
with having recently walked 50 miles in 9 hours 19
minutes. Our opinion, given off-hand, is that
M’Dermott can spread-eagle Edwards.
The footballers were hard at it on Satur-
day last. Sydney defeated Petersham by 6 goals,
11 behinds, t® 3 goals, 3 behlnds. The Burwoods
got a fair team together, and defeated the Wal-
laroos, so it is to be hoped we shall not hear any-
thing further of their intention to disband. The
Redferns easily defeated 18 Waverley men, and
various minor matches were played.
R. K, Fox, of New York, is bringing
another man from England to fight Sullivan. He
is furnished by George W. Atkinson, editor of
the London Sporting Times, who is considered
the best authority on the subject. He is 38 years
old, and has a first-class record. In physique he is
a better man than Tug Wilson or Mitchell, and is
thought a good match for the American cham-
pion. He will be backed for from £1000 to £3000
to fight any man in America.
A 14-stone Rugby footballer has long been
thirsting for a brush with an Association ditto,
who weighs something under 11 stone, and is re-
markably clever with the mittens. A meeting
was arranged, and they had a friendly bout in the
long room of the Mer —we mean one of the metro-
politan rowing clubs. The little ’un got all over
the 14-stunner, when and where he liked, and at
the end of the second round landed the auctioneer
fair and square on the Rugbian’s jaw, nearly put-
ting him through one of the windows. This sealed
the gate of the big ’un, and he cried “Walker!”
The well-known English pigeon-shot, W.
Graham has issued a challenge “to anyone in the
world to shoot with him a pigeon-match of 100 birds
for £300 a side,” and announces that his preferences
are for a contest with Dr. Carver, Capt. Bogardus,
Mr. Mitchell, or other American experts. He also
announces that he will, “ with one hand, at twenty-
six yards rise, wager £300 that he can beat the best
shot in the world, shooting Against him at thirty-
two yards rise.” To this Dr. Carver replies that he
will shoot Graham a match in America tor from
£200 to £1000.
The Victorian Waterloo Cup Coursing
meeting came to a conclusion on Friday last. For
the Waterloo Plate, W. Thomson’s bk w d Gas, by
Chester-Mint, beat W. P. Buchanan ns w b Pro-
serpina, by Charon —Elsa, and won. A. Clark ns
be w d Sam, by Grenadier —Bertha, beat G. Mayger
ns bkw b Werribee Shadow, by Bashful Joe —Ruby
in the deciding course for the Waterloo Purse;
and J. W. Crosbie ns w bk b Rhodanthe, by Rebel-
lion—Westeria, beat J. B. Scott’s w bk Shrewd Girl,
by Damascus —Peri, and won the Waterloo Cup.
The N.Y. Spirit op the Times seems t->
have an opinion of its own with respect to the
Mitchell-Sullivan slaughter. It says“ This police
interference was utterly without just cause or
provocation. Mitchell was uninjured, not even
exhausted, and was much less severely punished
than were two of the contestants at the recent
Amateur Championship meeting. Fifteen minutes
after he left the platform, we met him in the lobby
of Union-square Theatre, and no man in the world,
to whom the party were personally unknown,
could have picked out from the group of merry
gentlemen chatting pleasantly together, the one
who, if we were to believe newspaper report, had
been a quarter of an,hour before pounded within
an inch of his life, and rescued by the police from
total annihilation. Vive la humbug I” This is cer-
tainly at variance with all the rest of the American
press. The Spirit has a great “down” on the
** noble art, ” which may account for it.
The V.R.C. Winter Steeplechase meeting
came off at Flemington on Saturday last. The
Joker won the Maiden Hurdle, Belle Brandon 2,
Ontario 3. The Maiden Steeplechase fell to Sham-
rock, Speculators, Hope 3. Dizzy won the Grand
National Hurdles, Rhesus 2, Basilisk 3. The Grand
National Steeplechase was appropriated by Black-
thorn, six lengths away from Sailor, Black Jacket
third. Wild Harry pulled off the Selling Hurdle
Race; and the Flat Race finished the day’s sport
with a win for Virago, a length and a half from
Bonnie Bee, The Ghost third. Chrysalis fell in the
Grand National Steeplechase, and killed her rider,
A. M’Lines.
At the inquest held in England on Jem
Mace’s drowned boy, the mother of the deceased
said she was the wife of George Harris. Some
years ago she formed the acquaintance of James
Mace, a fighting man. They were married, and the
deceased was their offspring, aged 11 years. The
boy was born after they were married. Witness
then heard that Jem Mace was a married man, and
that his legal wife was living at Liverpool. Mace
was still living in Australia, and is about 54 years
of age. Witness parted with Mace prior to his
leaving England. He was not convicted of bigamy,
because she would not prosecute him. Witness
had received money from Mace since he had been
in Australia, and she married her present husband
knowing that she was not legally married to James
Mace. James has been a giddy boy in his day.
A raiser of blood cattle at Pescadero.
U S , had been troubled for several weeks by the
visits of a grisly bear, which killed and carried off
a calf every night, and all his efforts to capture
the bear had been unavailing. A man named Ipso
offered to put in the corral a jackass, which he
wagered would kill the bear. Next morning, when
the corral was visited, bruin lay stark and dead,
and the jack was quietly feeding off the pile of
hay. An inspection of him disclosed the fact that
his breast and sides were fearfully lacerated by
the bear’s claws, and one of his fore feet was dislo-
cated. But bruin was all broke up. He had his
lower jaw smashed to pieces: all his ribs on the
port side were stove in, one of his fore legs was
fractured at the shoulder, and he was generally
smashed all over.
Charles Watson Mitchell, the English
pugilistic champion, is as far removed from the
typical bruiser as it is possible to conceive, not
alone in physical appearance, but in choice of
words, manner, and enunciation. He has blue
eyes and brown hair, delicate pink and white com-
plexion. and scarcely perceptible down upon his
upper lip and chin. The only thing observable in
looking him over that betrays the immense force,
determination, and endurance that lie behind the
smiling face is his bull neck, which carries the
line of his back straight up, with hardly a curve,
to the centre of the back of the head. If the neck
be overlooked, Mitchell, when dressed, shows
nothing to indicate his phenomenal powers;
nothing upon which to predicate a suspicion that
it might not be safe and easy to up-end and spank
him as if he were an ordinary smooth-faced youth.
But when he strips he seems another being. Then
his astonishing muscular development is seen.
Under a skin smooth as satin, muscles hard almost
as bone, yet supple as serpents, play and glide with
a freedom that seems the result of the individual
volition of each. They are not the stiff, knotted
and clumped muscles that one sees piled upon the
Eictures of gladiatoi s, for their development has
een effected by a process of intelligent and long-
continued cultivation of the most perfect physical
health. The son of a medical tutor of Queen's
College, he spent several years preparing for the
career that had been marked out for him—that of
the practice of medicine—but the liking for the
“ Noble Art ” was too great for him to settle down
to any profession, and from champion amateur ot
Birmingham he gradually drifted into a regular
professional bruiser. He travelled for a time on
the Continent as a companion to Lord Douglas
Gordon, and at Antwerp thrashed Caryodoff, the
Belgian giant, on the stage of a theatre one Sunday
afternoon. The only exercise Mitchell takes is
JOHN L. SULLIVAN, CHAMPION PUGILIST OF AMERICA.
CHARLES MITCHELL, CHAMPION BOXER OF ENGLAND.


The Furniture Column.
THE SALE OF SUITES CONTINUED
at
THE ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE.
Between thirty and forty to select from.
Orders for the Eight Pounds Ten Suites should
be booked two days before required. As the num-
ber is limited, early application will be necessary.
No. 1, £8 10s.
No. 3, £10 10s.
No. 3, £10 10s.
No. 4, £11 10s.
No. 5, £11 10s.
No. 6, £13 10s.
No. 7, £13 10s.
No. 8, £13 10s.
No. 9, £16 10s.
No. 10, £16 10s.
No. 11, £18 10s.
No. 13, £33 10s.
No. 13, £33 10s.
No. 14, £33 10s.
No. 15, £34 10s.
and so on up to
Forty Guineas.
The Ten Guinea Suites are
upholstered in cretonne, nice
patterns, good and serviceable;
well put together, and well
upholstered.
The Thirteen Pounds Ten
Suites are our speciality. If
ever there was good value
offered, it lies in these. The
patterns are pretty, the frames
are substantial, and the work-
manship thoroughly good.
The Twenty-nine Pounds Ten
Suite is nicely upholstered, and
displays a new and pretty pat-
tern.
The Thirty-one Pounds Ten
Suite is also a now pattern,
upholstered in two colours.
The Thirty-five Pounds Suite
is upholstered in “ Forget-me-
not, and presents a very pretty
contrast.
The Forty-Guinea Suite is upholstered in a rich
satin brocade. The frames, Canadian, are entirely
superior. The easy chairs, spring rocking, aro
most comfortable, and the style of the whole is
both new and novel.
AUSTRIAN FURNITURE, a large and complete
stock, reduced prices. Full Suites of nine articles
from £4 15s. 6d. Horsehair Suites of nine articles,
nicely upholstered, £11 10s. Morocco Leather
Dining-room Suites, £3310s.
BEDSTEADS and BEDDING
BEDSTEADS and BEDDING
REDUCED PRICES.
Stump Bedsteads, with Palliasses, Mattress, Bol-
ster and Pillow, complete, £113s. 6d.
Half-tester Bedsteads, with Palliasses, Mattress,
Bolster and Pillow, complete, £119s. 6d.
Half-tester Bedsteads, 4ft. 61n. x 6ft. 6in, with Pal-
liasses, Mattress, Bolster} and Pillows, complete,
£3 9s. 6d.
Half-tester Bedsteads, 4ft. 6in. x 6ft. 6in., with Pal-
liasses, Fancy Linen Tick, Flock Mattress,
Bolster and Pillows, complete, £4 4s. 6d.
Half-tester Bedsteads, 4ft. 61n. x 6ft. 6in., with Pal-
liasses, Kapok Mattress, Bolster, and pair of
Feather Pillows, £5 9s.
Handsome 4ft. 6in. Half-tester Bedsteads, 2-lnch
tubular, nicely flowered, with Palliasses, Horse-
hair Mattress, Bolster, and pair of Feather
Pillows, £7 9s.
Also, many other attractive lines.
Special Spring Mattresses, 4ft. 61n., we are selling
at £17s. 6d.
REVISED HOUSE FURNISHING LIST, No. 8.
For the sum of £25 prompt net cash,
You can Furnish a House as follows :
PARLOUR.
Large cheffonier safe
Dining table, 4x3 ... ...
Upholstered couch
Six cane-seated chairs
Cornice pole with rings
Table cover
Lamp
Clock
Pair vases
Fender and Irons
Hearthrug
Matting for room
BEDROOM, No. 1.
Four-post bedstead, 4ft. Gin ...
Pair palliasses
Mattress
Bolster ...
Two pillows
Chest of drawers.
Washstand and set
Carpet seat folding chair
Toilet table
Toilet glass
0.'8. chair
Matting
BEDROOM, No. 3.
Single bedstead
Pair palliasses
Mattress
Bolster and pillow
Toilet table
Glass
Washstand and set
Chair
Matting slip
KITCHEN.
Pine table
Pine safe
Two chairs
Six plates
Six plates
Meat dishes, Is 9d and 3s 3d ...
Pair vegetable dishes
Six cups and saucers
Sugar basin
Milk jug
Butter dish
Pair salt cellars
Set of 3 jugs
Six cut tumblers
Six cut wines
Six knives and forks
Two table spoons
Six tea spoons
Kettle
Boiler
Saucepans, Is 6d, 3s 6d, Ss 6d ...
Frying-pan
Grid-iron
Tea-pot
Tea-oaddy ...
Coffee-pot
Tin dish
Tubs, 4s and 5s
Bucket
Dipper
Colander
Bread crock
Meat stand
Baking dishes, 8d and lOd
Rolling Pin
Pair glass candlesticks
Pepper caster
Set of skewers
Nutmeg grater
Kitchen spoon
Pair flat-irons
Hair-broom...
Wash board...
Scrub brush
Set shoe brushes
Pair bellows
Hand brush *...
Dust pan ...
Knife board and polish...
Clothes line and pegs ...
Campbell Brothers,
Royal Publishing Arcade,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NEXT THE ROYAL HOTEL.
... „ of light dumb-bells for a few minutes
with a y ireak f as t. He never puts on the gloves
before h. a j je ig „ 0 j ng to use them in a match,
eXC i e hP bikes no trouble about keeping himself in
tralningatany time w hen he hasJnot actually a
match on.
nr>nald Dinnie, the celebrated Scottish
now in America, stands six feet one inch
measures forty-eight inches around the
ll ? „ n d weighs two hundred and twenty pounds
cb( nnf which is solid flesh, muscle and bone. He
with ease two hundred and fifty pound
Hnmb-bells at arm’s length above his head. He can
rJin five feet eleven inches at a standing high
“L and twenty feet at a running long jump. At
ioc&’cr the caber, throwing the hammer, wrestling
S ofter feats of skill and strength combined, he
successful. On his first appear-
’Frisco, he put the heavy stone 3d feet 1
f“Sf. he threw the heavy hammer 96 feet 4 inches;
the light stone 42 feet 5 inches; he tossed
♦ifaeAber and threw the 56-lb. weight with a ring,
90 feet, taking for all these events first prize. These
■ri are by no means remarkable. At latest
Tw,nf,ld was trying to make a sensation out of a
(bogus) wrestling-match, between himself and
Muldoon.
The Attorney-General of S.A. even took
i„ a brother by surprise when proposing, during a
alarMission on the Totallsator Repeal Bill, that a
nimise be added as follows: “ Every person betting,
or offering to bet, by way of wagering or gaming
in nnv public place, or in any place to which the
rnihlic are or shall be admitted, whether by pay-
ment of money or otherwise, or in any such place
Setting up or taking part in any sweepstakes, shall
he liable to a penalty of not less than 40s., nor more
then £100, and for a second offence be considered a
rSSne and a vagabond within the true intent and
meaning of the Police Act of 1869, and as such may
he convicted and punished.” There is not a sport-
in v man among the present Ministry; .so, likely
enmurh. this clause represents the ideas of the
Cabinet on the subject. This position was
taken because many members opposed repealing
tntfi lisa tor operations, on the grounds that
tbe machine is the lesser of two evils, but
declare that were any measure introduced having
ter its oblect the suppression of public betting en-
tirely they would support it. There seemed a
narlia’mentary concensus of opinion that betting is
a kind of moral rot—insidious, contagious, and
increscent. Horse-racing is only a means to an
end It has no real connection with genuine sport.
It exists wholly for the benefit of bookmakers
nowadays. Bookmakers swoop down on the coun-
try buy up horses, trainers, and jockeys, and de-
cide that certain horses shall win and certain others
i n op Tennant, a hard-headed old sport, said He
knew a man who had lost £11,000 within the last
three years to bookmakers. He bought a first-
class horse, and put him in the best stables in the
colony; but the bookmakers got at the jockeys,
and they got not only at the jockeys, but at the
trainers. Half the horses in the colony belonged
to bookmakers. He had seen bookmakers betting
at nigeon matches and football matches.” (King-
ston interjected “Not here.”) “Yes,” continued
Tennant, “ here, and I know it, because I have
betted with them myself, and am talking about
what I understand.” Whether the Attorney-
General will seriously move the insertion of the
above clause in committee, or whether in such a
case Parliament would support him, are questions
• which trench on the border-land of the improbable.
But anyway, this debate has excited more interest
than the general business of the country has as
vet managed to inspire, and the S. A. public are
beginning to look on betting, whether by means
of totalisators or bookmakers, as a nasty cancer in
the body politic which deserves at least stronger
treatment than any yet adopted, if not, indeed,
free use of the legislative surgeon’s knife.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
At Warmambool a team of aboriginals
beat the local white footballers by 2 goals and 6
behindsto 2 goals.... King of the Ring tor sale.....
Old Beadsman, the hero of many a hard-fought
battle in N.S.W. and Queensland, is now driven in
his present owner’s buggy The Bligh Amateur
Racing Club has been granted the use of the
Mudgee course for next year’s racing —J. Otton’s
Rory won the Candelo Coursing Plate—Now that
Yass has been defeated by the Bowning foot-
ballers, it is time they disbanded. As our readers
are not all R. S. Smythes, we may inform them
that Bowning is a village consisting of two pubs,
three corrugated iron mansions, and a smithy
Members of the ring will be charged £1 for the
privilege of betting at the Sale (Vic.) Winter meet-
ing, on 2nd August O’Connor, the ped., has set-
tled down as a farmer In N.Z. .. A pigeon handi-
cap to come off during the week following the
Randwick Spring meeting for 200 sovereigns and a
sweepstake. First prize, 200 sovereigns and 50 per
cent, of the sweep; second 25, and third 10 per cent.
....The A.J.C. has raised the Hurdle Race and
Randwick Plate 50 so vs. each—J. Frame, who
nominated Spread Eagle for the Melbourne Cup,
has been apprehended on a charge of obtaining
sheep and cattle under false pretences. The of-
fence, it is stated, was committed last year—By
the s.s. Kent, Mr. C. G. Tindal imported the tho-
roughbred stallion, Arcesilaus, to take up his quar-
ters at the Ramornie stud, Clarence River ...
The use of bicycles has been prohibited in the
Brisbane Botanic Gardens Willie Frank and
Bernard Murphy matched to walk one mile at
Sydney in September, for £50 a side. Frank to
receive 80 yards start At Parramatta, on Thurs-
day last, the final play for the President’s trophy
of the Rose Hill Bowling Club resulted in a victory
for Mr. Dunshea At West Maitland, M’Donald’s
bay mare beat Healy’s Charlie on Thursday last....
The second programme of the Candelo Coursing
Club will be carried out on the 26th, 27th, and 28th
July At Kirk’s, Melbourne, a slut greyhound
puppy, by imported Capitol, from Barratta,
brought 50 guineas... .The Melbourne National
Coursing Club have decided, in a disputed case
about Western Duchess, in the Victorian Oaks,
that the bets must go with the stakes
Intercolonial ploughing match at Burrumbeet
(Vic.) Thursday. Single furrows: W. Ross,
Karimba, 1. Double furrows: J. B. Garde, Mel-
bourne, 1. Triple furrows: J. Huline, Milwa, 1.
Thanks to the officious kindness of the Victorian
Railway Department, who impounded his plough,
a N.S.W. ploughman was spared the ignominy of
. getting a bad place in the competition— At Moore
Park, on Friday last, the Redfern Football Club
defeated a team from H.M.S. Diamond—Chloe
won the All-comers’ Match at the Orange coursing
meet Rosinante shaped badly over the hurdles
at Randwick racecourse on Thursday last—
New racing club at Gundagai on the tapis. Mis-
take. No rbom for two clubs Mr. B. Weekes
has purchased Coriolanus for 400 guineas— Denili-
quin Races, 18th July:—Maiden Plate: Octopus 1,
Freetrader 2, Madelines. Hurdles: Artful Joe 1,
Brigand (late Native) 2, Sarawak 3. Show Handi-
cap : Tantaliser 1, Marie 2, Peeping Tom 3. Ama-
teur Cup: Where’s-the-Cat 1, Dick 2, Empress 3.
Warbreccan Handicap: Tantaliser 1, Terminus 2,
Marie 3. Selling Race; Black Prince 1, Madeline 2...
It is stated (says the Bendigo Advertiser) in
sporting circles that a prominent bookmaker, who
has not long been in Victoria, is in Queer-street;
at any rate, he will be asked either to post his
money or scratch a number of bets on the Waterloo
Cup, for which he had a heavy book — The Mait-
land Amateur Rowing Club has been fairly started.
A boat-house has been purchased for £125; and
two new skiffs and a four-oared gig are being
built by Messenger and a Newcastle man respec-
tively.
* * *
The Queen’s Prize, shot for at Wimbleton,
on 17th July, fell to Sergeant Mackay, with a score
of 79 points At the West of Scotland sports,
April 14, in the one-hundred-yards event, the final
heat ended in J. W. Parsons, A. S. Blair, and J. S.
Blair breasting the tape simultaneously, and in
running off a second time the two Blairs again
came home at the same time, with Parsons a yard
m the rear, and they agreed to divide—At Wil-
liamsburg, u.S , on 25th April, Pat O’Sullivan and
Herman Steiser fought with hard gloves. O’Sulli-
van won, after a terrible battle, lasting one hour and
seven minutes John Butterworth, alias “Dock-
um,” one of the best light-weight Lancashire
wrestlers that ever entered a ring, died on April 26,
at Oldham, Eng.,of consumption. About eight years
ago he won outright the 1171b championship cup ..
A vet. surgeon iu Brooklyn recently ate oats for
a wager against a horse. He ate two quarts to
the equine’s pint. It leaked out afterwards the
horse had been filled with oats and water before
the match Principal winners over St. Blaise’s
victory in the English Derby: Sir Frederick John-
stone £10,000, Lord Allington £9000, and the Prince
of Wales £5500 H. R. Reynolds won the London
(Eng.) 100 miles Bicycle road race in 7h. 28m., and
the London Tricycle Club 100-mile race fell to A.
Nixon in lOh. 38m. 15s George Littlewood, of
Sheffield, Eng., has published a challenge in the
London Sporting Life to the effect that he is
open to run or walk any man in the world 12 hours
per day for six days, or six nights and days,
for £i00 up to £500 a side. Hero’s a
chance for the Edwards-O’Leary combination—
J. B. Bessom, of Lynn, Mass., and a Montreal
Indian started on a 100 mile backward tramp on
April 20. Bessom took the lead and held it to the
forty-eighth mile, when he fell on the track, being
pressed for breath. (Cause, an overdose of
whisky.) He soon revived, but refused to go on
the track again. The Indian continued to walk
till he covered fifty-two miles, and was then
declared the winner ... It is stated that Charles E.
Courtney, of Union Springs (N.Y.), Is having a new
shell built with all the latest Improvements. He
will probably challenge Hanlan, and the champion
will rake in some more dollars—On May 28, at the
Polo Grounds (N.Y.), John L. Sullivan starred in an
exhibition game of baseball. The gate money was
as good as the play was bad. The pugilist received
50 per cent, of the proceeds—over £300—for less
than two hours very inferior play—Great Britain
beat America in the rifle match at Wimbledon—
The six days’ race at the Casino, Boston, between
horses and bicycles resulted in a victory for the
horses, who, it was stated, scored 921 miles to 899
for the bicycle-riders Fred. Archer, in the
course of six days, rode at Nottingham, Doncaster,
Sandown, and Paris Out of the 19 horses who
started in the Grand Prix. 18 were ridden by Eng-
lish jocks In America, Dr. Hawkins has been
sued for ten thousand dollars damages for alleged
malpractice in treating the trotting gelding Pilot
R. for fistula in the shoulder—The first tricycle
meet ever held in America took place at Boston on
25th April Miss Lillie Dinsmore, of Canada, will
ride a 20-mile race against a bicyclist, for $100 and a
gold medal, at the Casino, Boston. The young lady
is said to be only 17 years old and an expert eques-
trienne. ..
New reading of old line; “And Amster-
damed be he that first cries, ‘ Holt, enough I’ ”
The greatest nourishing tonic, appetizer,
strengthener and curative on earth. Hop Bitters.
See.
This is the only absolute certainty we
know of. Ask a publican, “ How’s business ?” and
he will reply, “ I can’t complain.”
The R.C. hierarchical organ, the Express,
places asculling-matoh under the heading “Amuse-
ments.” The fat cleric who edits our holy con-
temporary has evidently done very little hard
sculling, or he wouldn’t label It “ amusement.”
They don’t scull people across the Styx; they take
them over a steam-boat full at a time.
It was once despicable to be a Protestant,
then to be a Nonconformist, then to be a Metho-
dist, then to be a Quaker, and then to be a Unita-
rian. It is now unfashionable to be a sceptic or an
unbeliever, although it is fashionable to be a
Pharisee.
Dar is many a rule what won’t work both
ways. Whisky will produce a headache, but a
headache won t produce whisky. No man should
be looked on as a fool on account ob what he
doan’ belebe, but on account ob what he does
belebe. A too easiness ob conviction ter strange
ideas is caused a mighty heap ob trouble in dis
world.
Dean Cowper’s naive statement that the
aboriginal is capable of being brought to a know-
ledge of Christ is about the most sarcastic cut
ever made at his church—since, if it be so, why on
earth has his church systematically neglected the
nigger from the day when Australian sunlight first
shed its radiance on an orthodox white choker ?
Forty-eight years ago a gentleman took a
white parrot from Australia to England. It is still
living. The less sense, the longer life. This must
be a comfort to our M.L.C.’s. Let us hope it
doesn’t talk about the things it heard concerning
some of our “ First Families” 47 years ago I
Following the example set by their Sand-
hurst (Vic.) countrymen, the Queensland Chinese
are desirous of being naturalised. But there is a
difficulty. Up North, a Chinaman can only become
a Briton by residing two years in the colony and
being married. But then—
- o law was ever made
The chinkies can’t evade.
They have started to borrow wives, and return
them when the legal demands are satisfied.
Joe Cook has been bowled out in another
lie. Dr. George M. Beard, the distinguished physi-
cian, scientist, and free-thinker, died recently in
New York. He died as he had lived, an agnostic.
In his last illness he was attended by a Moravian
woman as nurse. The Reverend Joe, of Boston,
getting hold of the Moravian nurse, draws upon
his pious imagination for the following deathbed
scene, and thus del'vers himself in one of his
Sunday preludes: “ When Doctor George M. Beard
lay dying in New York city, a devout Moravian
said to him: ‘Trust in Jesus.’ With unimpaired
faculties he answered: ‘I do. I am.’ Immedi-
ately after this he rose up in bed and lifted up his
hand, his face brightened, and he said with great
emphasis; ‘ Higher! Higher 1’ and in a few seconds
passed into that trance from which no man or
angel could wake him.” The N.Y. Nation thus
disposes of this story of death-bed conversion:—
“ Now come the family of the deceased gentleman,
who were around his bed-side at the last moment,
as well as a friend, and testify that he was then
almost completely deaf, and had been so for some
time, as the result of his disease. He could be
made to hear only through an ear-trumpet, if at
all. No such exhortation to him as the Moravian
nurse reports herself as having made was heard by
anyone else in the room, or could have been heard
by him. His last words were, ‘Higher, higher,’
which were taken to mean, as he was suffering
from difficulty of breathing, that he should bo
raised up in bed, and he was so raised, and he con-
firmed the interpretation put upon them by adding
‘That will do,’ when he had got into the right
position. In that position he died without another
word, so that the Moravian nurse seems to have
drawn upon her imagination. Doctor Beard con-
tinued, as long as he was able to converse, an ag-
nostic, and, all his friends say, so died.”
THE MARRIAGE OF MUCKER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Up Queensland way, where human hair Is long,
And general vegetation somewhat scant Is,
Where barren fig-tree and remote quandong
Bloom on lone roads between most deadly shan-
ties,
There lived—the subject of the present song—
A sallow constipated praying-mantis,
Whose fingers, ever twitching like antennae,
Beached forward hungrily to seize each penny.
A target for men’s scorn—a canting thief
(You’ll think this language just a trifle plain is,
But, understand, I give my thoughts relief
In words quite usual where T. O’Kane is)—
A hound who tried to sneak his bread and beef
By soul-redeeming for the Northern zanies;
Whose dart was to appear the justest steward
That ever hiked a plate round for the Looard.
No fear of God had he—nor love for man,
Save one—the Reverend Josiah Mucker,
But preached Love and Denial as a plan
For making money, stimulants, and tucker;
For, though a leader in the temperance van,
He was a most enthusiastic sucker
Of all things bottled when he could arrive at
His parsonage, and lap them up in private.
He was a Wesleyan (bear this in mind—
Not one like Osborne, but a foul impostor—
To soar to simile, ho was the rind
Outside, but inside not the double Gloster).
He taught that Satan’s poison lay behind
The very name of Romish “ Pater-noster,”
And also that God’s providence expressly
Made Heaven to seat the followers of Wesley.
Up Queensland way there was a widow fair,
And rich in this world’s goods, and very pious;
Who, every Sabbath morning, did repair
To listen to the bull-voiced Ananias,
Who would wade in and worry out a prayer
As long as Mudgee Taylor, and as dry as
The souls that float on Phlegethon’s flerce.pool, or
The gullet of a Rechablte Chief Ruler.
The reverend josser, while he kept his flst
In Miller manner punishing the pulpit,
Kept his eye skinned—an eye that never missed
A chance of gain—and gave an Inward gulp at
The notion that this fair religionist
Would cut up well—a thought which, to excul-
pate
From taint of worldliness, he mixed with the
thought
That God should prosper those who fought with
Freethought.
And so this preacher of the Nazarene
Called on the moneyed widow pretty often,
And prayed with her; and, finding she seemed
green,
Tried all he could her heart to further soften.
And said her face was lovely to be seen
As that of any angel up aloft in
God’s home; and, drawing close enough to chuck
her
Sweet chin, exclaimed: “Be mine. Be Mrs.
Mucker.”
At first the widow flew into a rage
And used indignant language to her pastor,
Who felt quite telescoped, and at this stage
Thought all the game had ended in disaster;
Then she grew calm, and said that at her age
A tale of love had made her heart beat faster
Than was its wont, and, when her feelings moved
her,
She said things for which Conscience oft reproved
her.
Her conduct then grew different, and she.
In style half angry and half shy—the oddest
You ever saw—explained to him that he
Must not esteem her forward or immodest,
She thought it might, perhaps—well—that she’d
see;
Then fluttered off—a vision satin-bodiced.
And left her holy suitor quite elated
With the success that he was sure awaited.
He was not slow to follow up the chase,
And in a week the widow seemed contented
To be his fellow-labourer in Grace,
And every time a shaky soul was scented
Help him to lug it uo to the high dais
Wnich is assigned to such as have repented—
To be his wife—to make the Vineyard sunny
With Love, and quite a tidy pot of money.
Up Queensland way there was a coloured maid
Called Dorothy—an English-spoken half-caste—
Whose soul the Reverend Mucker had waylaid
And saved, despite the coarse Homeric chaff cast
Upon his labours by the thankless jade,
Who at her champion many a heathen laugh
cast —
She was an old retainer of the widow.
And did most faithfully what she was bid do.
She had a sweetheart, it was said, away
In the grim bush, who was a trifle blacker
Than she herself, and had arranged the day
Which should unite her with a happy tracker;
And had a wish, and, what was strange to say,
In this same wish her mistress was her backer,
That the first day which brought her hubby’s
kisses,
Should bring the like occasion for the missus.
In vain the minister did remonstrate
With his rich bride-elect upon the folly
Of such a course. She was most obdurate,
And vowed she thought the whole arrangement
jolly;
So he had nought to do but bow to Fate,
And look half-joyful and half-melancholy,'
Until the day arrived which was to scatter $ ___
So fair a shower of coin upon his platter. _
'Twas thus fixed up; the sable pair should be
Tied by the Reverend Mucker—quite a “ goer ’
In jobs like this—and after them that he
Should, by his friend, the Reverend Bluefire
Blower
(Quite celebrated for his homily.
Which proves that one who reaps is not a sower),
Be yoked (’tis sad how full of slang this yarn is)
In Charters-Towers-gold-mounted-double-harness.
Then came the eventful evening. In the sun
Drooped the broad leaves of the beloved banana;
The righteous Mucker prayed “Thy will be done.”
And oft below his breath remarked “ Hosanna!”
The miners all rolled up to see the fun,
And once right in the Chapel there began a
Free fight, because a man had tried to prove a
Clear case—the widow was off her kadooval
And soon the dusky jewelled bride appeared,
Attended by a very decent-looking nigger,
Who had a strangely Chrlstian-looking beard,
And better than an average Christian figure;
And long and loud the noisy miners cheered,
And one of them, a drunken Cornish digger,
Became so personal and animated
That what he uttered cannot bo related.
These soon were man and wife beyond a doubt,
(The bride’s dun features veiled from observa-
tion) ;
’Mid wild applause, and many a demon shout
Which rose to greet their courtship’s consumma-
tion,
And then the Reverend Mucker passed without,
And then the Reverend Blower took his station;
And then rose yells and cheers enough to deafen
The late John Brown, who is, no doubt, in Heaven.
The widow’s veil, ’twas noted, like the cook’s.
Was thick, so that her face was not apparent;
Perhaps, being sacred to her love’s love-looks,
’Twas hidden so that no one else might stare in it.
Her dress was mournful as is any rook’s—
'Twas very odd to-day she should be wearing It;
Her hands were gloved, and on her arms were
mittens
Black as the fur upon unlucky kittens.
The service once again commenced, and ran
Quite smoothly till the wedding-ring was lifted,
When all at once the bride-elect began
To laugh, and from mere laughing quickly drifted
To “ yells of laughter,” while the hapless man
Stood staring at her with expression gifted,
As plain as English, with these words, “ What
maggot
Has bitten her like this—the Godless faggot ?”
Then, like Mokanna, slow the bride did raise
Her veil, and “ Dorothy, the cook, by-
Croesus I”
Yelled all the congregation, as their gaze
Fell on a black lace, wrinkled as the sea’s is
Which has been blown upon for nights and days
By every manner of conflicting breezes—
Then realised at once the whole position,
And shrieked, “Ghost! ain’t the parson got a
dishing.”
’Twas even so. The widow, being wise
As serpents are—and widows—knew the parson
Was but a human heap of avarice,
So chose, instead her cousin, Patrick Carson;
And, being playful in a “dark disguise,”
Mounted and put this most successful farce on.
And what made Mucker, after all, most foaming,
Was to know he had hitched her to a Roman.


o
K R
n
USE
Lessee, W. J. Wilson. Sub-Lessee, A. T. Downing.
Stage Manager, T. B. Appleby.
Treasurer, J. F. Goldsworthy.
The most successful Opera Boullc of the day.
MANTEAUX NOIKS
(Black Cloaks).
N.B.—This famous work was performed for
Seven Months at the Avenue, London, and will be
produced on a scale of
UNPARALLELED SPLENDOUR.
THIS and EVERY EVENING.
Admission—Dress Circle, 5e.; Stalls, 3s.; Pit, 2s.
Bex plan at Huenerbien’s Music Warehouse, 411
George-street, where seats may be secured for any
date in advance. Day tickets obtained at
Stone’s, tobacconist, next Theatre.
Secretary to A. T. Dunning, A. N. Hallifax.
THEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & Musgbove.
SIXTH WEEK and continued triumph of
MISS JENNIE LEE,
and
Mr. J. P. BURNETT.
TO-NIGUT, and During the Week,
Mr. J. P. Burnett’s Farciful Comedy, in three acts,
THE GRASSHOPPER, or the CHANCES of the
CARDS.
Business Manager for Miss Lee, LIDDY.
T
WA HOURS AT
PROTESTANT HALL.
H AME.
FOR A SHORT SEASON ONLY.
EVERY EVENING, EXCEPT WEDNESDAY.
CHANGE OF PROGRAMME EACH EVENING.
MR. KENNEDY
will give his Entertainments
on the
SONGS OF SCOTLAND,
assisted by the following members of his family:—
Miss Helen Kennedy Soprano
Miss Marjory Kennedy Soprano
Miss Maggie Kennedy Contralto
Mr. Robert Kennedy .. .. .. .. Tenor.
Pianoforte, the Misses Kennedy.
Commence at 8.
Tickets—3s., 2s., Is.—at Paling s.
R. KENNEDY, Manager.
M
ASON1C HALL. MASONIC HALL.
For a short season only.
Tuesday, 31st, excepted, on account of Hall being
previously engaged.
TO-NIGHT. TO-NIGHT.
Simon
Simon
PROFESSOR
Simon Simon Simon
Simon Simon Simon
THURSDAY EVENING, JULY 25.
EVERY MAN A WALKING SION
EVERY MAN A WALKING SIGN.
Public readings of character on the stage,
causing unbounded merriment.
Noses Noses Noses Noses.
Lips Lips Lips Lips.
Eyes Eyes Eyes Eyes.
Ears, and Wagging Ears.
Illustrated by Oil Paintings.
Who to marry, how to marry, when to marry, and
how to live happy after marriage.
And the Novel. ORIGINAL, and Marvellous
BLINDFOLDED SEANCE,
Witnessed and enjoyed by the public ot the world,
and pronounced to bo uneQualled as entertaining
and instructive. _
Drawing CROWDED HOUSES in MELBOURNE
and ADELAIDE.
Professor Simon combines Science & Amusement.
Received every night with enthusiasm, and never
failing to convince the most sceptical of the Pro-
fessor’s powers as a true delineator of character.
Doors open at 7.30, overture at 7.t>0, commencing
at 8 sharp. Carriages may be ordered for 10 15.
Admission —Gallery, Is.; body of ball, 2s., rc-
Se Reserved seat tickets can be procured at
Huencrbcin’s. George-street. HARDy Manager .
GEO. STANLEY, Agent.
ICTORIA HALL,
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Lessee
Mr. F. E. HiSCOCKS.
The most Elegant, Fashionable, and Popular
Place of Amusement in Australia, well adapted
for any first-class entertainments. The Lessee open
to Rent or otherwise. Apply
WM. MARSHALL,
Lorgnette Office, Melbourne.
T
IHOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR OF THE
J ZULU WAR.
Theatre Royal, Rockhampton, July 9th to 31st.
Bundaberg, Maryborough, and Gymple.
Brisbane to follow, 9th September, with
NEW DIORAMA
OF
EGYPTIAN W A R1
W. H, THOMPSON, Proprietor.
SYL. RYAN, Agent.
AYALA*
A
%
UrTRA pUAUTY
GNL
/67 b
v~ - I
s
V
“ I’m out of form. Can’t keep up to work.”
“ Oh, if that’s all, old man, I’ll have you as brisk as a
flcket in a jiffy. Here, Waiter! large bottle of
yila’s White Label. This is a wine one can’t get
verywhero; and if it doesn’t set you up, Frank, I’ll
tve you a new hat.’’
ROBERT PHILIPS 8 SO.,
agents.
THE BUGGIES OF THE PERIOD.
Unequalled for Durability and Elegance.
WAGGONETTES & EXPRESS WAGGONS
[ST FIRST-CLASS WORK ONLY IMPORTED.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 & 24 C/arence-st,
SYDNEY.
m
I
§|p
s
m
o
o
■s-
o
o
o
CP
ED
m
iP
VERY CAREFULLY MADE I BROOK S PATENT
fob I GLAC£ THREAD
HAND & MACHINE SEWING, I
NEW SH0U1DER REEL
BROOK'S SIX-CORD
SOFT COTTON
NEW SHOULDER REEL
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and^DITNEDIN.
ANTONY (itBBS, SONS Sc CO., LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS St SONS, LONDON.
G IBBS & CO.. VALPARAISO. . . HovnunMn
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OP CANTON—Head Office i HONGKONG.
Principal Agencies i
J. C. Gostllng and Company (Limited)—Portland Cement. •
The Tunnel Portland Cement Company (Limited)—Portland Cement v H . p’ m r(no<i
Marshall, Sons and Company (Limited). Gainsborough—Portable Hoilzontal, and Vortical Engines,
Threshing Machines, Saw Benches, &c., &c. „ „
Crosslcy Brothers (Limited), Manchester —The celebrated Otto Silent Gas Engines.
Bow, M*Lachlan and Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &c., &c.
Thos. Glover and Company, London—Patent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian and Sons—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penyrorsedd Slate Company (Limited)— Bangor Slates.
The Quicksilver Mining Company, San Fnincisco—Quicksilver.
Pels and Company, of Patras and Corfu—Currants.
Thos. Bell and Co—English Hams, Bacon, &c., &c.
Bed Cross Preserving Company, Victoria- —Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, &c. T .
Do Wondel and Company, Hayange, France—Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plates, Iron and
Steel Fencing Wire, &c.
Thos. Perry and Son, Bilston- Fire-resisting Safes.
Drybrough and Co., Edinburgh—Ale.
Brunton and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse.
Thos. N. Hunt—Port Wine. , ,
Dubos Freres, Bordeaux —Clarets, Chablis, Sauternes
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES.
New South Wales. —Scott and Mullaly, T. AIlsop, F. J. O’Loary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bios.
J Victoria.— James Fry and Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson. Tr . .
South Australia.— \V. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hincks.
Mgr- INDENTS executed, on the most favourable terms, from all parts of the world. Consignments
of produce received for shipment to London, under liberal advances.
THE COVENTRY MACHINISTS’ COMPANY
MAKERS BY SPECIAL WARRANT TO H.R.H. THE PRINCE OF WALES.
TRADE MARK REGISTERED
THE SPECIAL CLUB.
THE AUSTRALIAN CLUB.
Intending Purchasers of
Bicycles & Tricycles
Should Write to Us or Call on Us.
As we have always on hand a full
Stock of THE CLUB BICYCLES and
TRICYCLES, we never fail to give
purchasers the best satisfaction.
Wc have permission from the leading
BICYCLE AND TRICYCLE RIDERS
OF THE COLONY to refer inquirers
as to the merits of our machines to
them, and we shall take pleasure iu
doing this whenever requested, as t heir
good recommendation has already sold
for us a number of machines. Expe-
rienced Machinists inspect and adjust
every machine.
SPECIAL. AGENCY:
THE IMPERIAL CLUB
THE CHEYLESMORE CLUB.
Jut! Mi & Gompy
389 George Street, opposite
ip Royal Hotel.
JUST ARRIVED ex S.S. KENT, a Large
Shipment of the Celebrated
“Excelsior” Boadster Bicycles
“ Excelsior ” Tricycles
“ Andrew’s ” Bacing Bicycle,
As ridden by W. S. Hamilton, Amateur Champion
of Australia.
Send for Price List to
BAYLISS, THOMAS & CO., 68 King Street.
Masonic hall
York Street. ’
TUESDAY, 31st JULY, 1883.
SYDNEY PROGRESSIVE LYCEUM.
5th Anniversary Festival.
Tea on tables at 6.3". Session, with Recitations
Songs, Addresses, Calisthenics, &e., 7.30. Dancing
at 10 p.m.
CHARLES BRIGHT, Esq., will deliver Address.
Tickets, Half-a-Crown.
Great six days* walking match, f or
the Championship of New South Wales, and
To Commence 6th AUGUST,
in the
EXHIBITION BUILDING, Prince Alfred Park,
The following' are the competitorsJ. \y
Taylor, G. Lover, A. T. J. Beck, H, Woods, G. L«
Petit, C. Williams, T. Singleton, J. Ewins, J. Camp-
bell M’Dermott.
T. J. ROBERTSON, Manager.
MONK’S TROPHY!
I71NTHIES CLOSE for the above Event, at
li MORTIMER’S ROYAL OAK HOTEL,
Double Bay, on SATURDAY, 38th JULY, at 9
P ' m ‘ H. L. STAFFORD,
Secretary,
Sydney Gymnasium!
LIVERPOOL STREET
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Class Daily.
ALL BRANCHES OP ATHLETICS TAUGHT.
G. H. d’HAROOURT, Instructor.
NS. W. RACING COMPANY’S CONSUL-
. TATIONS on METROPOLITAN STAKES
(To be RUN at RANDWICK, TUESDAY, Sept. 4)
and MELBOURNE CUP,
50,000 Shares at 10s. per Share—£35,000.
1st Horse £4000 I Starters £1000
2nd „ 30001 Non-Starters ... 2000
3rd 10001 ——
For 149 Horses £10,000
117 Prize Gifts.—266 Prizes in all.
1 Prize Gift
£4000
3000
„ ..1000
„ at £500 1000
„ at 350 1000
117 Prize Gifts ...
8 Prize Gifts, at 125 £1000
30 „ at £100 2000
40 ., at 50 2000
40 „ at 35 1000
£15,000
Application by Letter only, addressed W, BURN-
HARD, care Box 355, G.P.O., Sydney.
P.S.—Applicants will please state for which event.
All parties are requested to forward Drafts, P.O,
Orders, or Cheques ; if Cash, to register letters.
Results sent to Shareholders and published in the
Leading Weekly Papers of the Colonies.
The Drawing will take place before a Committee
of Shareholders.
o
oy
w
rHE “GREAT BONANZA” CLUB CONSUL-
TATION
on the
MELBOURNE CUP, 1883,
To be run about the end of October.
’’apital £7500. Divided into 150,000 Shares at Is
each. 500 Prizes Guaranteed.
To be distributed as follows:—
First Horse .. .. £1000 1 10 Prizes of £100, £1000
20 Prizes of £50, £1000
40 Prizes of £35, £1000
100 Prizes of £10, £1000
200 Prizes of £5, £1000
Second Horse .. 500
Third Horse.. .. 350
■Starters divide .. 500
Non-starters divide 350
31 Tickets for £1. Not less than 5 Tickets sent to
my single address. Send P.O. Order or Bank
Notes. If coin be enclosed, please register letter,
if Stamps are sent, add exchange at the rate Is in
the £1. Exchange should also be added to cheques.
Please enclose 3d extra for Membership Fee. No
oharge for reply or result. Drawing will positive y
lake place on or before the 35th October, and will
be conducted before a Committee of Shareholders.
Tickets promptly sent by return post, and results
posted immediately after drawing. Prospectuses
forwarded. Enclose an addressed envelope un-
stamped. „ _ _
Address: “Bonanza, care of J. Thomas,
SwanstonrStreet, Melbourne.
<30,000
To be distributed on the
MELBOURNE CUP, 1883,
To be run on November 6th,
ALL PRIZES !! NO BLANKS ! i!
“THE MELBOURNE TURF CLUB"
Desire to inform the Sporting Public that they
have made arrangements for holding a Mammoth
Sweep on the forthcoming Melbourne Cup, which
tor Novelty, Fidelity, and Advantage has no equal
in Australia.
Capital £30,000 in 20,000 Shares of £1 EACH
First Horse ..
Second „
Third „
Starters Divide
Non-starters „
350 2000
200 3000
100 2000
Total...
£15,000
The remaining £5000 will be employed by the
!lub in making a book on the Cup and other races,
hat is, laying and taking the odds by a new system,
he success of which has been practically provea.
t is estimated that the profits accruing from this
ource will range from £5000 to £15,000, the whole
if which, both capital and profits, will be equally
livided amongst subscribers who were unsucccss-
ul in drawing either a horse or a prize in tne
rlammoth Sweep. Each Subscriber will be sure oj
btaining a Pr ze, be it large or small. The Pro-
noters of the M. T. C. are well-known sporting
rentleinen, and guarantee the above to be a bona-
\de affair in every particular. Ten per cent, coni-
nission deducted from all winnings. Drawing w
ake place on October 38th. Results posted imnie-
liatefy after. Subscribers who wish to be present,
vill please notify us in time. Add 3d. for reply a nQ
•esuft. Address —
THOMAS BENTLEY, Secty.
M. T. C., Melbourne.
MANDELSON’S HOTEL, the favourite Hotel
in Goulburn.


Prepared according to the directions vt Prof.
E. N. Horsford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED FOR
DYSPEPSIA. HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
IMPAIRED VITALITY. NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA. WAKEFULNESS, SKA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY, &C.
No Danger can Attend its Use.
Great Relief by Its Use.
WINSLOW LEWIS, M.D.. of Boston, the distin-
guished and popular' physician, said:
“Having in my own person experienced those
ills for which the Acid Phosphate is prescribed, 1,
having found great relief and alleviation by its
use, most cheerfully attest my appreciation of its
excellence.”
Indigestion and Bladder and Kidney
Troubles.
Portland, Me., Oct. 2nd, 1880.
Horsf ord’s Acid Phosphate has become a favour-
ite remedy in my practice. When completely tired
out by prolonged wakefulness and overwork, it la
of the greatest value to me. I have given it in
certain forms of dyspepsia, in all cases of nervous
exhaustion from overwork, in certain affections of
the bladder and kidneys, and have always been
satisfied with the results. I prescribe it more and
more as I become better acquainted with its pro-
perties. Of all the samples of medicine sent me
during the past dozen years, Hereford's AcldPhos-
phate is the only one 1 have ever found which has
become a necessity in my own household. Per-
haps I should hardly have been willing to write my
impressions of the Acid Phosphate if I had not
in my own person experienced its good effects.
C. O. FILES, M.D.
Derangement of Secretory and Nervous
Systems.
Rutland, Vt., Jan. 33,1879.
While I am exceedingly averse to giving certifi-
cates, and almost always decline to do so. yet in
the case of “ Horsford s Acid Phosphate, I am
willing to say, that, having used it very consider-
ably, 1 can testify to its great value In functional
derangements or the secretory and nervous sys-
tems. CHAS. WOODHOUSE, M.D.
J .
Pamphlets, with full information as to the
wonderful curative properties of Horford’s Acid
Phosphate, furnished free on application to
BARRON, MOXHAM & CO., SYDNEY.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
“ It Works like a Charm.”
It is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy It gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches fire. It cures
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Bruises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lame Back, Biheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an internal remedy it tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Throat, and Dyp-
theria.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL In the house, or on hand for immediate use la
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers In
. Medicines.
V '‘A •
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best Imported into this country, and have
gained throughout the colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the Iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. 1
leather, and the upholstery Is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their finish
BECAUSE they arc each and all built under special
instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage builders in America,
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say they are the
best.
American Carriage Emporium,
WYNYAB.D SQUARE. SYDNEY.
BARRON, MOXHAM & CO.,
Solo Agcnta.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
thfatbe ROYAE, *; Grasshopper” Vide p. 10.
OPEBA HOUSE. “Manteaux Noirs lb.
There was a time when we didn’t think
e liked going- to the theatre on a Saturday night.
That must have been, however, either when we
wore young or owed money. It is certainly sorae-
' hat disconcerting to us, who have had extensive
transactions with various “financial agents,” to
arrive at the theatre on business for our paper,
and to And the whole of the seven tribes of Judah
in the dross circle. Then you have no sooner
smoothed down your white tie, and discovered
tlr t you have left your pockot-handerchief behind,
than you behold your tailor affably signalling you
from the stalls. You look up, disconcerted, only
to perceive your cabman, in a state of inebriety
and shirt-sleeves, who welcomes you from the
family circle with enthusiasm, and invites you, in
dumb show, to drink out of his rum-flask. You
feel thirsty after the first act, but you don’t care
t 0 go out and have a drink, because you know
(hnf lying in wait for you at the Metropolitan, is
I aVnrthv gentleman with three big diamonds in a
rather dusky shirt-front, who will say “You haf
fm irot I shuppose, dat dem two bromissory notes
was ov’erdoo last Dursday.” Then people who be-
long to the stalls, but are crowded out, come up;
and vou see young men and young women grinding
one another's palms together, and stealthily eating
annnge c-kes out of paper bags, nearly all either
totally oblivious of the plot, or else under the Im-
pression that the piece is “ East Lynne.” It is a
well-known fact that a very largo section of the
lower class of playgoers seldom or never study
either posters or advertisements. They have been
used to “ going to the play of a Saturday night,’
nil their lives, and they go as a matter of course.
Hut they understand nothing below the surface.
The majority don’t even know what they are going
to see • and when they do see it, they are only at-
tracted by a sensational tableau, or by the comic
man pretending to catch a bluebottle. Hut since
Mr J P. Burnett commenced his season we have
somewhat overcome our prejudices against mixed
audiences. Curiosity is, after all, not always con-
fined to women; and after Mr. Burnett’s brilliant
effort in the dramatisation of “Bleak House,” we
felt at once that he was not a man to be neglected.
At some Inconvenience, therefore, we attended
the first night of Mr. Burnett’s second effort at
adaptation. And we are here to tell the tale.
* * *
It was a damp night, and gloomy, and
dismal. There were rings round the street lamps,
and there was coagulated mud in the roadways.
And there was Maggie Moore in a box hugging a
pretty little girl, andjin the dress-circle the usual
first night’s “push.” We have seen these faces so
often in the same seats, that we feel now they have
somewhat of the ghostly about them. The lady
who writes,In his singing there was every poetic
cadence, and the dramatic sublimity of this divine
lyric yet lingers round the sympathetic heart,”
was there; and the young man who passionately
writes, “ Each gave satisfaction in their respective
parts,” was not absent. The party who had slid in
on the Jamberoo Investigator ticket, on the
promise of a couple of columns of dramatic
“slobber,” was there, also, standing at the back,
with an eye that was grotesquely glassy, and a
hiccup that was mellifluously melodious. There
was tne elegant Tom Price, too, who is said to
write his Saturday’s critiques on Sunday on a lily-
petal curled up in a rosebud. He can tell you
about: "When she turned to upbraid him, a
solemn stillness fell upon the house; and as the
prismatic flash of anger darted from out her lus-
trous eyes, and the poetry of passion was in every
movement of her symmetrical form, we felt at
once that there had come amongst us a Queen of
the Drama as talented as she was divine.”
♦ * *
The play began punctually. We had read,
previous to going there, all the advertisements
concerning it. This rather mixed us up. One
paper said that “The Grasshopper” was adapted
from “La Cigale” by “Mulock and Hallevoy;”
another, by “Mehack and Halvy,” another, by
“ Meilhack and Halevey.” The programme has it
“ Meilach and Halevy, and we have been in daily
expectation of seeing it printed Mullock and
Anchovy. As a matter of fact, “La Cigale” is a
Palais Royal farce written by Meilhac and Halfivy,
the librettists of “ La Grande Duchesse,” “ La
Belle Helene,” &c., and, without a doubt,
the cleverest playwrights of the present decade.
An adaptation of this piece has been played here
before, by a young party from America who called
herself Imogene. She did it at Jhe Queen’s, and
was amusing if only from|the fact that, between
the acts, either she used to bang her agent or her
agent used to bang her, and uproar was the result.
Without that, Imogene would not have been
amusing. Miss Jennie Lee, however, who does
not (to our knowledge) bang her agent, is amusing,
though her version of the play, from a literary
point of view, is infinitely inferior to that brought
out by Imogene. As Mr. J. P. Burnett tried to
improve on Dickens, so has he endeavoured to gild
the refined gold of Meilhac and Halevy. The result
from a dramatic point of view is dismal. Mr.
Burnett has turned the fii’st scene, a French inn,
into a Scotch inn, and has introduced dialogue into
the scene which, if it does not savour of the charnel
house, at least smacks of the graveyard. In this
inn, Mr. Burnett nolds long conversations with a
Scotch innkeeper, and bores you so that you feel
that you would like to go out and collect rocks,
and without going into the question of being with-
out sin, throw the first stone. Some attempt, too,
was made at localizing. Jennie Lee, for Instance,
when Harwood (who plays Gyngel, the circus-
proprietor) comes after his escaped star, the Grass-
hopper cries: “HulloI here is old Gyngel arrived
from Melbourne.” The scene is labelled “ Bothie
at Glensneeshen,” [!!!] and the Grasshopper had
only escaped a few hours previous—and in full
.circus costume. In a like manner. Miss Lee is made
■ to call one of the characters “ Ballarat,” and
another “Melbourne.” After this, it will be seen
that the mantle of someone must have fallen on
the shoulders of Mr. Burnett. We don’t ask, nor
try I o think, whose mantle. That would open up,
at once, the gigantic question of funeral reform.
• • •
Miss Jennie Lee is lively enough and bright
enough in the piece. She has all the fat, and when
she is on she has a detexterous way of jumbling all
the rest of the cast up into the corner. She has
any amount of other business, also; but it is all
bald-headed in its antiquity. And she sings, and
she dances, and she throws oranges, and breaks
glasses, and eats —Don Caesar de Bazan-like —with
simulated voracity. This is all very well, of course,
but we have had all this before. Miss Jennie Lee
is a dainty little lady, and a clever; but when she
come to us in the song and dance line after Maggie
Moore, and with all Mrs. W.’s business, Miss
Jennie’s performance is apt to suggest certain
comparisons. But she works very hard, and, as
the adaptation, like an Alexandrine, drags its weary
length along, she puts all the life into it that is
capable of being infused into such a production.
* * *
She does several things especially. But
what she does most especially is to sing two songs
—“ The Squire and Maria,” which is a lyric of the
“ I-saw-Esau-Kissing-Kate’’-sample, and another
“ My ’Art is true to Poll.” This last was written
byF. C. Burnandfor Mrs. John Wood in the bur-
lesque (also by him) “Poll and My Partner Jo;”
and was originally sung by her at the St. James’
Theatre, London. It is very funny, and, as it is
only ourselves who are iu a position to give it to
the public, wo have much pleasure in setting it
down for them :—
“ Oh, once my aunt used to sing a chaunt
Of a story that was true;
’Twas of a certain Billy Kidd, who, whate’er he
did,
To his Poll was always true!
“ Ho sailed away in a gallant ship
From the merry port of jovial Bris-(o7,
And the last words as he uttered as his ankcrcher
he fluttered
Were: 4 My ’Art is true to Poll I’,
GHOBCS.
44 His ’art was true to Poll,
His ’art was true to Poll;
No matter what you do, if your ’art be true,
And his ’art was true to Poll.
44 He was wrecked Will-i-am, to shore he swam,
And he looked about for an inn;
When he see a native lady, of a colour rather
shady,
Who came up with a cheerful grin.
44 Oh, marry me, said she, and a king you shall be,
And in a palace loll;
Or, I’ll eat you like a filet’— so he give his and,
did Hilly,
Hut his 'art was true to Poll.
chorus:
44 Now, William Kidd, for ten long years
Was King of the Kickyruckyboos,
And his costume consisted of a hat upon his
head,
And a pair of over-shoes.
They made him a present of twenty wives,
I Whose beauty I will not now extol:
But one day they all revolted, so back to Bristol
Billy bolted,
For his 'art was true to Poll.”
Jennie Lee sings this (it is in the last act) with de-
lightful humour, and was rapturously (hem, Al-
fred!) rederaanded. But we wish to remark that
this song is Burn-mid, not Burn-eft. The company
has been strengthened since the production of
44 Jo’’—and advisedly so—by the engagement or
Mr. H. II. Harwood. As might have been expected
Mr. Harwood, who gags systematically when he
has a good part, would gag outrageously when he
had a bad one. In “The Mascotte” he used to
come on with 44 two half-crowns,” and tell us
about the elections; now he comes on in a pair of
chess-board pants, and tells us about the Indian
corn doctor. And it is only just to Mr. Harwood
to say that, however much (or little) he may sin
against the canons of art, his locals are the funniest
things in the piece.
♦ * *
Mr. J. P. Burnett played Pygmalion Flip-
pit, an artist, 44 his ” (we quote the bill) 44 original
character.” The effect of this performance on us
was to yearn to see him in something that was not
his original character. Mr. William Hoskins’per-
formance of the Earl of Bogland impressed us as
lacking grasp, though, after all, one could not
reasonably expect Mr. Hoskins to be aide to grasp
shadows. Mr. Hans Phillips played Charles Stipple
{kin original character), and ho was so phenonenally
feeble that he may be said to have conjured up a
creation calculated to make him stand high
in the ranks of colourless comedians. He is
capable of much better things. Mr. >V. B.
Warmer, however, made a kind of a splash as t he
Hon. Sydney Morass. He has leanmd to dress
properly, and, when he acquires a little of the art
of repose, he should get on. As it is—notwith-
standing that he is in this piece undeniably amus-
ing,—the peculiar manner in which he poses always
leads one to the supposition that he is about to
come down to the footlights, and sing, as he used
to—
44 In his hand a penny ztick,
In his mouth a small toothpick,
Not a stiver in his 4 kick,’
Lah-di-dah.”
Miss Ethel AdMe played somebody called Catherine
(her original character, bless her I), though what in
thunder she had to do, either when she originally
played it or now, is a puzzle. We should like to
see Miss Ethel in a better part, even if she only
played a jack-boot, or (to vary it) a boot-jack. Mr.
W. Matthews tumbled well as Dismal Jimmy; and
Mr. Hennings’ scenery was exceedingly pretty.
* * *
We shouldn’t wonder if 44 The Grasshopper”
had a long run ; and we shouldn’t wonder if it
hadn’t. By the way, we wonder whether Dion
Boucicault entreated Mr. J. P. Burnett to adapt
this piece; and we wonder still more what Pro-
fessor Blackie said about it. We haven’t read his
opinion yet.
* * * *
Mr. Daniel E. Bandraann opened on Satur-
day last at the Gaiety, in 44 Proof,” under the
efficient management of Mr. George Sawkins, who,
we believe, is well known throughout the colonies
as an able exponent of literature of an ultra-
aesthetic kind. We were not able to go on Satur-
day evening, 4 ‘ it ” (there seems to be a laundress
monopoly herr!) not having come home in time;
but on Monday we showed up glistening with
starch, and with a pair of silk socks that—[Never
mind about your wearing apparel. Let us have
something that is not so painfully familiar.
The first time we told you that you must go in
evening dress, a nice fix you were in. Ed. B.]
♦ * *
The house (and we are sorry for this) was
one of the worst that we have ever seen, even at
the Gaiety. It was so cold there that it would
have made a cat sneeze. But “Proof” is a pleasant
piece. It is pleasant for many reasons; but,
chiefly, we think, because Herr Bandmann appears
in gaiters and an impossible musket; and because
Miss Louise Beaudet is affecting in a brocaded silk
dressing-gown. We like Miss Beaudet all the time,
but, we think, when we admire her most is when
she is affecting in a brocaded dressing-gown. Could
we move people to tears in a brocaded silk dressing-
gown, we should admire ourselves. But we don’t
think we have the power, and we know we haven’t
the dressing-gown.
• • I
The plot of “ Proof” is very entertaining.
Here it is in one act. Bandmann, who is a gallant
soldier in gaiters and the musket aforesaid, is
em-ugted with a batf with jewels apd “docy-
merits.” Cominghome from war’s alarms (looking:
remarkably clean, by the way) he confides this bag
to his wife, kisses his kid, and goes back to evolve
more slaughter. The kid is put to bed, and a man
gets in through the window, points a dagger at the
wife’s breast, and demands the “jools." She refuses,
and then, with the weapon close to her throat, he
makes her talk to him as if he wore her husbard.
He then bores a hole through her, after abstracting
the “jools,” and then “guys a whack to his own
Medina.” The gallant soldier, Ilandman.n (Pierre
Lorrance), is “lumbered” tor the crime, and sent
to the ga'leys. Then he appears as a galley-slave
in chains, and recognises his daughter, who is now
a “swell” living with the Duchesse D’Auterre.
There is a joke here, of course. He finds his
daughter with D’Auterre. It takes us to see
these things. Anyhow, the end is that the villain
is denounced, and Bandmann marries the barber’s
daughter—we mean Adrienne, in the person of
Miss Beaudet.
* * *
We should rather like to marry Miss Beau-
det ourselves, and would do so so at once could she
square things with a party who is now ironing.
She is—and we have no hesitation in saying this—
one of the loveliest women that ever appeared on
any stage. Her beauty is not like the beauty of
Alice Liugard, cold and classic, but picturesque and
piquante. Her talents as an actress are, there is no
doubt, very groat; but it is, to the critical observer,
painfully apparent that she has been brought up in
the wrong school. She has not only been over-
trained— this is evident by her exaggerated facial
changes—but she is so eager after effect that she
sacrifices all her powers of concentration to make
a solitary point. But though this is not art, there
is about Miss Louise Beaudet much that is artistic
and everything that is refined. Her Adrienne,
while being nearly great, is altogether pleasant.
And this is about all the marmalade we can hoist
on to this young lady’s salver in the present issue.
• • •
Herr Bandmann is highly effective as
Pierre Lorrance; and when he came on In fetters
and a yellow jumper, the tears fell so fast from the
gallery that we were almost obliged to put up our
umbrella. Mr. Glover (who, like Miss Petowker, is
of the *• Theatre Royal, Drury Lane ”) was quite
great as Charnboran: so much so, that we had a
mind to wait until he had crept into his store
clothes, in order to shake this Glover’s clump.
• • •
The ‘ ehe-ild ” in the piece is called “ Little
Annie.” She is, probably, the daughter of either
a member of Parliament or a vanman, since her
dialect is of a dreadful description. When this child
talks—when she says, “Is larder cornin’?” —it
makes you think of Kont-street, and washer-
women, and treacle, and salt herrings that are
festering in barrels. Someone will probably kill
this kid befoi-e the run of “ Brooff ”—we mean
“Proof” —lias expired. We hope so; for this will
save us the trouble of once more sharpening our
little hatchet. Alice Johns looked lovely us the
Duchesse D’Auterre, ami, we wore glad to see,
exercised a commendable spirit of economy in
taking care of her train. We wereglad to see this,
for another reason. For, whenever she tripped off
she whisked it up directly she reached the wing,
thereby exhibiting a symmetrical ankle. And, if
there be anything we like better than repeating
the responses, it is gazing but here’s the man
with the bread.
* * *
All the other characters were satisfactorily
filled; but the men’s riding-boots were delusive.
We notice, with a thrill, that “East Lynne” is
underlined. We had begun to think we should
never see this beautiful drama again. “ Darling, I
am your mother-r.” Then off come her spectacles.
Herr Bandmann, mercy—that is, rnercil
* * * *
The Kennedys, who opened at the Pro-
testant Hall on Monday night, consistof one young
lady in pink, one in blue, one in white with a
brocaded skirt, an elderly papa, and a slim young
man who sings ballads of a pathetic nature. Wo
went there tor a bit on Monday night, and we
liked it very much. But what we liked more than
very much was the audience. We never saw, in
our lives, so many women with red hair and with
teeth that overlapped their lower lips. The place
was crowded, and, night being cold, the hall
was a sea of tartan shawls. What we admired
most in the entertainment was “ G u ma slan a chi
mi” and “ Msdrie Laghach,” by the Misses Ken-
nedy, and “Last May a braw wooer,” by Miss
Marjory. Both songs were delicious; and, as we
intend haunting the Protestant Hall during Mr.
Kennedy’s regime like an unquiet spirit, wo trust
that he will alter the title of his entertainment,
and instead of “ Twa Hours at Hame,”’substitute
“ Aaight Hours at Hame.” We are sure “Aaight”
is Scotch, because wo were born in Dubbo. We
are now diligently studying the vernacular at the
feet of a “Scots wha hae,” with a view to spreading
ourselves on this delightful entertainment next
week.
When is the Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals going to prosecute the person
responsible for the hideous torture to which the
cinnamon hears at our little “Zoo.” are subjected ?
Persons whose avocations are sedentary
and confine them indoors, are especially in need of
some wholesome stimulant; we therefore confi-
dently offer them that world-renowned tonic,
Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
The premises lately occupied by Mr. W. H.
Paling-, George-street, have undergone a complete
alteration, and will in future be known as the
Shoe- Bazaar. Instead of pianos, one sees a most
magnificent collection of bric-a-brac, bijouterie,
etc., including Parian marble statuettes, Royal
Worcester plates, real Bohemian vases, French
bronze glass, and an entirely new variety of terra-
cotta, known as the “ Italian.” At every turn one
sees handsome and delightful articles, and Mr,
Fuerth, the enterprising proprietor, deserves to
succeed for endeavouring to please the tastes and
pockets of all classes.*
“A NICE FIX YOU WERE IN.” — Vide Shows.


ARCHIBALD FORBES ON AUSTRALIA.
I A MUO tv6o
f ro*>< y eurJ ** *,
'^o/sc/tret
T/je /pyittfioo ~ 7if lY/ * ee/ ‘ J ?
W>fnPp,
\ •',•?. 4 *'* :. /
y?*s/>a//a/y /£ a feet/So f
< *e,*Sr/'/ **/'/']/1 %
Jc<//ev & y y / j [
k sje . X\ / / n ■■
S&cSrr t / f .f
A man on board a steamer
coiff make nothing of re-
signing his state room to a woman
I have noticed on your
strèts how seldom a man
removes his cigar from his lips
when he passes a woman
The weak point of Australia seems to
me its politics *** But S'hèr bare-
faced "steals", such as obtains in the
United States are comparatively
rare.
So, That is why Archie
lectured to so many
empty benches in the
US - people were tò
busy "stealing" to go and
hear about "Kings I have hob-nobbed with")
It was "blow" of this
type which kindled
Sundry enthusiastic
South Australians to car-
ry me to the top of mount
Lofty and command me
to lòk down on that fair
expanse of sterility
fertility that
stretches ? ?
i "'ibr 3
/w v-# /j*ec/ in the Mfvy
V brents tymf 6a n* a//erect wf 9 * 6,
£utq/be'
«mp • ■ •- - v *kt , . ••'
If Toorak and the North Shore
are aďicted to ?owers clam
nating the mansions that stud
the picturesque slopes I had
rather imagine & c &c &c
Your rural communitites demand news
and the newspaper lives where the
most sanguine journalsit at home would
regard the establishment of a newspaper
as an act of stark lunacy
When the "knight of Faulconbridge" walks along George
Street, there is not a larriken in the gutter but will mutter
to his pal "There goes Sir Enery" -
I take away with me a new miśion to
strive with all my energy that others
shall be better informed about
Australia also
Before these lines appear in print
the writer of them shall have left
young Australia on the lee


PEPPER AND SALT.
Archbishop Vaughan seems to have had a
good time on board the City of New York. The
captain charitably allowed him the privilege of the
bridge. This was to enable His Grace to escape
the woman who wanted his autograph, the man
who held different opinions, the cad who would ask
him to drink for a wager, and the furbelowed bore
who wanted his blessing. We have had some ex-
perience of passenger life on shipboard. And it
was not till we were three days out on our first
trip that we even thought we could be so mean.
We wanted everything we saw. One day a man
was reading “The New Republic.” We had read
the book, but directly we saw it we yearned for it.
Then a lady next us began eating an apple, and
we wanted; the apple, too. We had an illustrated
paper, and we could see that a gentleman opposite
who had a perfect cartload of novels, thirsted for
our blood because he longed to have our paper.
Then the people who are not sea-sick detest those
who are; and those who are, execrate those who
are not. The man at the wheel is an object of
much interest, and everybody wants to speak to
him just because they are not allowed to. We
actually detected ourselves, before we had been
on board a week, going about saying to men as
mean as ourselves, “ Wonder who she is. Shouldn’t
wonder if—eh ? Yes.” It's no wonder the Free-
man’s correspondent says “ His Grace’s favourite
place was the bridge.” It was only up there that
he could escape offers of peppermint drops,
orange-flower-water, and the last effervescing cure
for sea-sickness. It was only there, guarded by
the officer of the watch, that he could be safe
from the friend who had “a heartfelt remem-
brance of your Grace’s splendid eloquence;” from
the demon who was “ proud to be in mid-ocean
with such a distinguished prelate.” Yes; the
bridge is the place on board ship; and the only
successful policy a silent one. Speak to no one,
and you are happy. Mingle with the “cheerful
social circle," and you’ll hate yourself so In a day
or two that you’ll turn your mirror with its face
to the wall, and, burying your head in your pillow,
wish you were dead.
It is with much pleasure we are enabled to
announce that, in consequence of the telegraphic
facilities at our disposal, we are in a position to
place before our readers the official correspondence
between Prince Leopold, Duke of Albany, and the
Right Hon. W. B. Gladstone, on the occasion of
H.R.H. applying for the post of Governor-General
of Canada, rendered vacant by the resignation of
the Marquis of Lome, and since accepted by Lord
Lansdowne. .
“Claremont.
“Right Hon. W. B. Gladstone.
“ Sib,— In stating my willingness to succeed
the Marquis of Lome in the Administration of
the Government of Canada, I have to acquaint
you with the pleasing fact that when I sit
down I am frequently enabled to get up un-
assisted. The patent ankle-screw supplied by
my doctors is such a success that, with a little
hauling in front and a little butting behind, I
can now walk several yards. Her Majesty has
also directed me to call your attention to the
fact that my left eyeball hardly ever falls out
unless when I stoop down, and that when X
have all my galvanic chain-bands on, and when
there is a good fire, and my fur pelisse is
wrapped round me, I feel almost playful. And
I reckon that when my new spine-clamp comes
from Boston, and the man in the Strand has
made my right knee-cap fit I shall be quite skit-
tish. On my family claims to the post I need
not enlarge; but 1 take it that you will at
once see the desirableness of appointing
to succeed my brother of Lome, one of equal
valour, equal diplomatic experience. Give me
the cook’s shoulder and a step-ladder and then
see what I’ll do with a charger. My income
from all sources is barely £30,000 a year, and it
takes all the Princess’ dower to keep her old
man going in sauer-kraut and lager. Then look
what I expend in patent medicines. I try
everything as soon as't comes out, and am, so
to speak, salivated with sarsaparilla. And it
won't run all these luxuries on my present
income. So let me have the extra £10,000, or,
in self-defence, I shall be bound to open a
chemist’s shop.
“ I have the honour to be
“ Your obedient servant,
“LEOPOLD,
“ Colonel 6th Hussars.”
From the Right Hon. W. E. Gladstone, to H.R.H.
Prince Leopold.
“ Downing-street,
“B. 794,365. “ ’83.
“ Sir,—I have the honour to acknowledge the
receipt of your Royal Highness’ communica-
tion. As nearly all our Field-Marshals are
drawn about in Rath chairs there seems to be
no special reason why you should not have the
appointment. And, besides, in case of trouble
In the Dominion, your Royal Highness’
facility for distributing yourself (so to speak)
at will would prove extremely useful. I will
confer with my colleagues on the subject, and
communicate further with your Royal
Highness. T , _ ,
“I have the honour to be, my Lord Duke,
“ Your Royal Highness’s obedient servant,
“W. E. GLADSTONE.”
From Right Hon. W. E. Gladstone, to H.R.H.
the Duke of Albany,
“B. 847,698 Downing-street.
“ Sib,—The Secretary of State for the Colonies
is willing to recommend your appointment as
Governor-General of Canada, providing your
Royal Highness can walk ten yards along the
kerbing of the Palace court-yard.
“ I nave the honour to be,
“ Four Royal Highness’ obt. servant,
“W. E. Gladstone.”
From Prince Leopold to the Right Hon. W. E.
Gladstone.
“ Sib,—I dare say 1 Ten yards. Ask me some-
thing easy. I am willing to storm the deadly
breach, and all that sort of thing—but hang it,
you know I However, I will try and brace up.
Some man in uniform camo up this morning
and wanted to see me. I thought he was a
fireman, and begged him to go away; but he
said he was adjutant of my regiment, and
wanted me to come out and inspect it. I asked
him, with tears in my eyes, to leave; and he
was, eventually, I believe, thrown out. All I
know is a helmet and sabretache were found in
the Claremont grounds, and something inside
a tunic and boots was lying in the Immediate
vicinity. I don’t feel well to-day, in conse-
quence of mistaking bottles last night. I had
instructed my valet to buy a phial of the
* Lightning Lubricator,’ which is said to cure
cancer in the stomach. I have cancer in the
stomach,and have alsoseverial bunions. Well,
I drank half a bottle of hair-tonic Instead; and
this has given such a tone to my Inside, that
my belief is you could play on me like a Jew’s-
harp. Hold on, though, till I get to Toronto.
But give me, under the circumstances, slighter
ordeal.
“ I have the honour to be,
“ Your obedient servant,
“LEOPLD
“ Colonel, 6th Hussars.”
From Right Hon. W. B. Gladstone to H.R.H.
Prince Leopold.
“ Downing-street,
“ B. 89-1,358. ’83.
“ Sm, —You wish me, to lighten the test as to
your fitness to accept the Governor-General-
ship of Canada. Could your Royal Highness, un-
assisted, kill a cockroach in the Royal kitchen ?
“ I have the honour to be,
“ Your Royal Highness’
“ Obedient servant,
“ W. B. Gladstone."
From H.R.H. Prince Leopold to the Eight Hon.
W. E. Gladstone.
“ Claremont,
’83.
“ Sib, —There you go again I What sized
cockroach ? And would I he allowed the use
of my deadly sabre ?
“Leopold,
“ Colonel, 6th Hussars.”
From Right Hon. W, E. Gladstone to H.R.H.
Prince Leopold.
** Downing-street,
“ ’83.
“ Sir,— A cockroach of the ordinary size; and
the weapon selected by myself and colleagues is
a flat-iron. The advantage in killing power
that that Implement would have over your
Royal Highness’ own sabre must be at once
apparent.
“ W. E. Gladstone.
From H.R.H. Prince Leopold, Duke of Albany to
the Right Hon. W. E. Gladstone.
“ Claremont,
“ 83.
“ Sir, —I am prepared, should war be declared,
to take the van at the head of my regiment,
and to deal out destruction dire to the furious
foe. This—in my capacity of a Colonel in the
British Array—is only my duty. Once let me
have Her Majesty’s permission (which I do not
anticipate) to storm the battlements, and,
though bullets whiz, and shells explode, I will
show myself a Guelph to the core. But I can’t
kill cockroaches with a flat-iron. That’s not
martial. Besides, how am I to stoop V I here-
with withdraw my application.
“ I have the honour to be,
“ Your obedient servant,
“ Leopold,
“ Colonel, 6th Hussars.”
“ Minute 2,494,765 . ,
“ Application from His Royal Highness the
Duke of Albany, withdrawn. No man, in
future, to govern any colony or dependency
who cannot kill cockroaches with a flat-iron.
“ W. E. Gladstone.”
• • •
The Drapers’ Early Closing movement has
cropped up again, and at the meeting on Friday
afternoon Mr. Dibbs and Mr. G. H. Reid said some
very funny things. Well, we like to read funny
things said by “ numbers,” and we especially
like to peruse the orations of Mr. “ Dan. ’
O’Connor. In this instance Daniel was moderate.
He simply said: “The Ministers of heaven and
earth had united in a holy alliance (!) to bring
about the success of the movement.” Very likely
they have; but how about the wives of the Minis-
ters of heaven and earth1 Will they unite in a
holy alliance to bring about this delightful con-
summation ? Will they avoid every shopthat has
not emblazoned on Its windows Mr. G. H. Reid’s
philanthropical shield ? We don’t think so.
Our experience of the sex is that it a woman
wanted a spool of cotton or a shoe-string at
eleven p.m., and she couldn’t skip in and
get it, when she next met the draper
who owned the closed emporium she would nit
him over the head with a step-ladder. No ladies
attended the meeting! And how married men
could pander to such a movement is more than we
can understand. Personally, we have no sympathy
with these drapers’ young men. They have caused
us too many sleepless nights by palming off on our
families bales of old stock at fabulous prices while
we, for reasons that need not be expatiated upon,
have deemed it a polite policy to always sit down,
—at a time, too, when we had our coat off. But lot
it not be thought we are narrow-minded. On the
contrary. Our view of the question is broad and
extensive. We don’t simply advocate the early
closing of the drapers’ shops, but the closing of
them altogether. We do. And, let us see, now,
what is the next article.
• • I
From the Herald obituary columns (terms
five shillings each notice, cash down)
“ Pale Death could scarcely find another
So true a wife, so fond a mother;
In all her actions she was kind,
And left her loved ones all behind.”
We have let out upon this kind of thing in prose
several times, but still the charnel-house verse
continues to appear in the newspapers, and the
crowns flow Into the pockets of the men who own
them—
Pole-axe your Pegasus, whoe’er you are!
An end of brutes who’ve such a hobbling tread;
A truce to doggerel, whose infernal jar
Might kill the living, and would wake the dead.
But, if your grief in public you must flaunt.
Give us no more heroics of the hearse!
Choose from some bard the fragment of a chaunt
That is not maudlin, and, at least is verse I
* ♦ *
There is a gay young dame named “ Elise,”
who writes in tne Melbourne Herald, and who
advances all sorts of opinions on all sorts of things.
She says that she doesn’t “ care a fig for a lord,”
and that, in common with the majority of colonial
girls, she prefers “ foreign gentlemen” to knights,
either English or colonial born. She talks about
(mark this) the “ balance at her bankers ,” and says
proudly that “it shall never go to augment (sic)
empty titles”—whatever that may mean. She
furthermore recommends all those colonial youths
who cannot get suited with native belles to go to
England “ and marry a baroness, or countess, or,
better still, marry a widow old enough to be his
mother, and live in Toorak on her patrimony.” So
do we; especially the latter, which has been, if
what we hear Is true, successfully accomplished
lately by one Nicholas. Not by old Nicholas 1 —but
by young Nicholas. We do not mean to be cynical
here. We do not share the antipathy of Mr.
Weller to widows; and even he, though he posed
as “ the wictim of connubiality,” admitted at least
one virtue In the “bereaved” section of the fair
sex. For what said he to Mr. Pickwick ?—“ If ever
you are attacked with gout, sir, jist you marry a
widder as has a good loud woice with a decent
notion of usin’ it, and you’ll never have the gout
agin.” Elise errs on the side of sentimentality.
We can’t see why, when a fine young fellow mar-
ries a rich old woman, that he should be flouted.
It is some time now since we married a rich
old woman, but a lot of people we know
have done it on several occasions recently.
And we never scorned them. On the contrary,
we have a distinct recollection of partaking of
hospitality at their hands, which, a few weeks be-
fore, would have been a Monte Christovian dream.
It is a sweet thing to behold the new master of the
house ringing for seltzer and sherry, and, a mo-
ment after, writhing under the blandishment* of
the bride. And there is a peculiarity about these
mature matrons, that they always want the old
man’s arm around them when somebody spresent.
That’s the way they take out the value of their
money. It will thus be seen that these ladles have
all the best of the bargain. The husbands, then,
we would humbly advance, are entitled, if not to
veneration, at least to respect. We have neither
the pleasure of the acquaintance of Mr. Ashmead-
Burdett-Coutts-Bartlett, nor of the young hero
who carried off the venerable prize at Toorak.
That is our loss. The Baroness Ooutts, tor in-
stance, is a most excellent woman, but she has a
bulbous complexion, and an affection of the
stomach. And, similarly, the Toorak lady is hardly
a Medora. But both 01 them have lots of sherry
and seltzer. With regard, however, to the first por-
tion of Blise’s advice to the youth of the colony
(we took the second portion first; it is our eccentric
little way!)—that about advising scions of the
colonial aristocracy to go home and marry coun-
tesses, we have only to say that, so far as our ex-
perience goes (and we grieve to say it), countesses
don’t bite at Australians. This may be a synonym
for the degeneracy of the British aristocracy; but
it is true, nevertheless. The antipathy —for it is
little else—of high-born English dames to colonials
generally may be traced to several sources. But
chiefly, we think, to the fact that our cricketing
team has, for two consecutive seasons, given gas-
tronomical exhibitions in the principal cities of
Great Britain. We have seen them eat, ourselves;
and we are bound to admit that, were we a
countess, if. would require some hesitation on our
part before we married one of the eleven, and a
deal of deliberation before we wedded the vrhole
team. As a matter of fact, our “ knights of the
willow” (silly, thisl) labour under the disadvantage
of not having had an university education—edu-
cation at an university where they teach you how
to manoeuvre properly with your knife and fork,
yes.;<
BRIEF MENTION.
A coi(g)n of vantage—New Guinea.
At Albury, after dinner. Federation—
Fed-oration.
Up North a man was killed by a sleeper’s
falling on him. It was heavy, and the shock cooked
him. It was his wife.
The Sydney barmaids have taken to wear-
ing on their breasts gold spiders set with jewels.
It never seems to strike anyone who are the Hies.
For shouting “ Hallelujah, amen,” at the
wicket gate of the Salvation Army barracks, a
wicked man was fined £5. His intention was to
howl “ Whisky, amen,” but his foot slipped, the
way of transgressors is hard.
The thing that most forcibly struck Mr.
Morrison in New Guinea was the natives attending
Divine service in full dress—grass aprons. The
Age will probably get the worth of its money out
of this observant young man.
The new Victorian Dog Act allows the
officers a shilling per head for all stray dogs they
seize. But how If the stray dogs seize the officers,
and the officers get hydrophobia ? We suppose
they will make judges of them then.
Emigrant, who has been up town, is on
return to his ship, swamped with enquiries as to
what soi’t of a city Sydney is. “ Oh, a first-rate
place. It’s a shilling if you speak to a man, and
nalf-a-crown If you ask him a question.”
A Macdonaldtown alderman accused an-
other lately of not knowing how many cubic feet
made a load. To which the other replied that if
the feet were like his—the first speaker’s—they
would require a dray each. At least, he would have
replied like this if he had been as smart as wo are.
“People must either work or die,” said
Mr. Dillon, 8.M., in court the other day. Parsons,
we suppose, are not people Anyhow, they man-
age to get along without either working or dying
as long as they live. This sentence has a sort of
Irish ring, but then this is all the more appro-
priate as it concerns business.
In a Queensland town, a publican who was
severely fined for supplying drink to an aboriginal
is verv anxious that his “fellow Anglicans ” will
help to erect a church in the town, and in a letter
to the local paper he bewails the unregenerate
condition of tno population roundabout. That’s
the sort of man we like. “ Nothing so much the
spirit calms as rum and true religion.”
Letter found in the street with the fo’low-
ing postscript: “Thank God —Christianity is safe.
But it was a narrow squeak. However, they gave
way all along the line, and so the idols at whose
shrine I once worshipped —Freetrade and Free-
thought—have received a correction they will not
soon forget.—Prom yours truly, D.B.”
Rural parson and his amiable wife meet
group of younsters. Lady (pointing to one of the
juveniles): “ This, my dear, is one of my Sunday
school pupils.” Parson: “Haw, my cheeild, can
you tell me where your Heavenly Father is?”
Kiddy, triumphantly: “ Yes, sir, he’s up at Windel-
lama a fencin’ for Bobby Roberts.”
Some good young men belonging to certain
Sydney church debating societies the other even-
ing declared, by a majority of 31, that statesmen
had conferred greater benefits upon society than
scientists. Of course they have. Look at the good
which such men as James Watson, John Davies,
Andy Lynch, Hanley Bennett, John Lucas, Ezekiel
Baker, &c., have accomplished for the world. And
who would compare their achievements with those
of such nobodles as Newton, Tyndall, Humphrey
Davy, and Edison ?
Henry Hicks presided at a meeting of his
people at the Protestant Hall the other night.
His people are Orangemen, and Henry bosses the
Lodge—is Right Worshipful Master, in fact. He
spoke on the occasion, it was the old subject—the
memory, Glorious and Immortal, with which we
are all, alas I so familiar. Then :he quoted Dickens
as follows: “The religion of Ireland lay at the root
of all its sorrows.” The exact sentence to be found
in Forster’s Life of Dickens, vol. ii. page 233, run :
“I have a sad misgiving that the religion of Ire-
land lies as deep at the root of all its sorrows even
as English mlsgovernrnent and Tory villainy.”
Smart, wasn’t it, to leave out the seven qualifying
words following “sorrows” like the seven peni-
tential psalms ? That’s right, Henry; you are quite
fit to belong to the Llve-on-Loyalty mob.
AQoldsbrough mau writes to the Austral-
asian to know what is the best thing to do with
a rock pebble parrot which is subject to fits. It
appears the poor bird “ flutters violently and falls
off his perch.” He is fed on wheat and oats, with
a potato on Sunday. As answers seem to be in-
vited, we think no apology necessary in giving our
experience. Some time ago we had a bird of the
same kind, and, oddly enough, subject to the same
ailments. The fluttering, of course, was easily
remedied with a pair of scissors. Falling off the
perch gave some trouble at first, until we tried
tying him on with wax-end, and propping him up
behind with a tent-pole. These remedies, however,
were only palliative, after all. The real cure is to
be found in a change of diet. Instead of cereals
and rnurphys, we ran into him some Passover-cako
and unferraented wine from the Temperance Hall.
Then the recovery was complete, and there was no
more fluttering and no more tumbling till ho died—
shortly after. Hallelujah!
There is some talk about a Volunteer Corps
being formed at Manly. Wo give our full support
to this spirited proposal; and we would suggest
that the corps be a mounted one. There are plenty
of goats running around Manly now, that seem to
have nothing to do but break fences and devour
the contents of clothes-lines. Why not utilize these
animals as mounts for the Manly Volunteers ? Sir
Edward Strickland, K.C.B., would then be a
K.C.B.B. (Knight Commander of the Billy-goat
Brigade.) The goat is a warlike animal, and could
be depended upon for charging in the van of
danger. But as steed and rider might have differ-
ent opinions, it would be a wise precaution to tie
the legs of the latter. Then, with the stone kan-
garoo up on the hill as a commander who might be
relied upon to keep his post, we think the people
of Sydney could depend upon the Brigade render-
ing a good account of any invaders who dared to
land on our shores. At least, they might depend
upon them rendering an early account—if the
steamers were still running.
His name was Philip Rooney. ’Twas said
he was of Irish extraction, but on this point there
was a little obscurity. He had been a soldier, but
as glory was less in his line than bacon and cab-
bage, he changed his sword for a quart pot and
took a bush public-house. But Phil’s memory was
good, and many important facts connected with
the Indian Mutiny were still fresh in it. “You’re
right, sorr,” he more than once observed, “ it was
a caution, an’ faith 1 was in the thick of it—up to
me nick. Divil a shot was fired 1 wasn’t contagious
to.” “ Know. Sir Colin,” we remarked, negli-
gently. “ Bedad, you make me laff,” said the
Rooney, gaily. “ Know him ? an’ we as thick as
thieves. Many’s the time he said— 4 Phil, sez he, go
to the sergeant-major for a forlorn hope o' the
Murphys (terrors the same Murphys wor), and
turn the flank o’ that division o’ the rebels forninst
you. Whistle Garryowen till you get round ’em,
just to cheer the bhoys up a bit.” Begor, I mind
the time when 35,000 o’ the black divils surrounded
us, and wedged ius in that tight that young Fla-
herty, the drummer, had to walk over our heads
for ray-inforcements, an’ Larry M’Grath was plas-
thered up that tight against the adjutant’s sarvlnt
that he never left off spittin’ blood and stuttherih’
from that day to this. While we wore sthuck like
this, makin’ notices o’ motion, widout carryin’
thim out, the gineral said: ‘Is private Rooney
there ? 4 4 Faix, I am,’ sez I, cornin’ to the presint.
‘Thin proceed with the battle,' sez he. 4 Yes, yer
honor, sez I, ‘an’ divil a saypoy was within the
bawl of an ass of us in a brace of shakes.’” We
have reason to know that Mr. Rooney is a man of
the strictest integrity—one in whom the firmest
reliance may be placed, especially when he relates
his army experiences.
THE ELEPHANT IN REPLY TO KIND
INQUIRIES:
Do I pine for Siam ?
The land of my dam,
For my mates and our gara-
Bols ’mid mango and yam?
No I I don’t care a
While with food I can cram—
That’s the hairpin I am?
Like the place ? Abraham 1
Like Sydney? Siam
Is a mock and a sham
To this land of the ram
And the ewe and the lamb I
No humbug or flam 1
I don’t like your tram, ,,
But your harbour’s “ real jam;
New South Wales, 'pon my Sam,
Can give fits to Siam.
“ Stand in the doorway; hark, it comes,
Though distant’s its discordant shout.
Though muffled are the cruel drums,
It surges on, that ragged rout I
“ Stand quietly there; nay, do not shrink—
You’re safer here upon the whole.
Now, see it come—you’d almost think
That it could dance the ‘ Carmagnole.
Whizz! Bang! A stone’s gone thro’the drum;
An egg 1 One’s got it in the eye;
Oh, don’t the rabble reek of rum
As they pass madly yelling by 1
A soft white hand. Quite cold—the deuce I—
“ This sight, fair one, seems to alarm ye . . .
Oh no! Not Tarban Creek broke loose.
This, madam’s, the Salvation Army.
“No thanks! What eyes! Don’t look at us . . .”
’Twas all that we could faintly stammer—
“ We’re married, and —we —hate a fuss,
And Jane Ann’s got a little hammer.
Gone! What an ankle—trim and neat;
She looks round, daintiest of lasses!
Bah! here comes toddling down the street
The baby—smothered in molasses!
She looks again-this time quite sad;
She turns—our colour mantles higher—
Then comes the voice, “ ’Ou’re wanted, Dad,
To come and light the copper-flre.”
IN A DOORWAY.
Pulling the Belle— The Professor’s Little Mistake.


POLITICAL POINTS.
Imperial Government regrets Queensland s
unauthorised New Guinea-grabbing, urges general
colonial federation. British naval forces in New
Guinea, waters will be strengthened, and should
Queensland consent to pay expenses, Imperial
deputies, acting under the High Commissioner of
the Western Pacific, will be placed on various
points of the 8.E. coast of New Guinea, thereby
securing a gradual protectorate over that portion
of the island.
Archibald Forbes gushes over the kind
way Queenslanders treat the Kanakas. Inter alia
he says:—“ The .force ma.jcure of self-interest must
be paramount with the employer against doing
despite to his Kanaka.” Bosh! This was precisely
the argument most relied on by the Southern men
before Lincoln’s proclan atlon manumitted the
negroes. Self-interest is good in its way, but when
men are brutal they seldom attend to its dictates.
Why. don’t old “Uncle Tom’s” master and owner
breilk both his arms with a waddy ?
Down the Illawarra valleys,
O'er the hills to Wollongong,
Stuart the people’s spirit rallies
With a cheerful Railway song.
They’ve ne’er heard such wit as Dailey’s,
And they know Wright can’t be wrong;
Abbott follows suit with Trickett.
Railway talk they understand
Well as football or as cricket—
“ Lend us. then, a helping hand ”
(That’s the Ministerial ticket)
“ When we’re dealing with the Land.”
Earl Dufferiu has expressed his confidence
in the “good sense of the colonics.” He thinks
they will stick to the old country “ so long as they
are treated properly.” Of course they will. But
he omitted to say what treatment would justify
them in setting up for themselves. The Imperial
Parliament—with perfect justice it appears to us,
considering wc do not contribute a penny to the
Imperial Exchequer—says “Weoannotdefendyou.
You must provide for your own protection.”
This is straightforward. But suppose a protracted
war to arise to-morrow. Surely we could not be
called ingrates if, seeing year by year our blood
and treasure being spent in quarrels, in which we
had no earthly Interest, we at last murmured, aud
—justso. All will be well “so long as they are
treated properly.”
Thus Dailey dactylicly paraprased
Here we go off on the “ Sydney and Shoalhaven,”
Bidding adieu to the dusty metropolis:
Views that are lovely, now wo may stir and see.
Free circulation—how huge are its benefits!
Yet, sir, with all the improvements in currency,
Great is the dread of a run on the banks.
Stop here for luncheon! Yes, but the folly see!
Flavourless tea, indigestible pies.
Soup hot to boiling point—then their derned policy
Screeching the whistle to make us all rise!
Tricketty, traeketty, tricketty, tracketty,
—Oh I that that whistle were dumb evermore!
• • •
Bromby, in his “The English in Ireland,”
said no more about Erin having preceded England
in the work of education than John Kichard trroen
and other "orthodox” historians had said before;
and yet the “Protestant Asscendants” are mad —
Several thousands of recidivistcs expected in New
Caledonia. Same kidney as the Pentonvillain emi-
grants to Australia of some years back A com-
pany of marine infantry was ready formed at
Noumea, awaiting orders, should France decide on
annexing the New Hebrides. France merely wired
“ Do nothing,” and the Governor of New Caledonia
told his aide-de-camp to tell that to the marines...
The Orange Society objects to the priests inter-
fering in politics. How is it, then, that most of
the speakers at the Orange tea-fights all over the
colonies are clerics ?.. ..Philanthropy is said to bo
the latest little game of the N.Z. land-sharks. They
want to act as agents for such of the natives as
have lands to sell, for fear the simple creatures
might be cheated by unscrupulous men. Well, it
is only fair that the whites should have their turn
of philanthropy. It is not so long ago since the
Maories wore philanthropists themselves towards
the whites. They loved the whiteman well— when
roasted; but they loved him best when baked like
g pig.,,.Tho “influential gentleman” who pro-
sided over the Dubbo Orange celebration is under-
stood to be counting the votes of the Boganites.
By the way, a certain wretchedly conducted paper
in that district is for sale—Orange Bittern having
proved too strong for it. ...The Yass Courier;
We believe it to be susceptible of proof that the
failure of Free-selectlon lies as much at the door
of Lands-oflice Muddling as that of Monopolising
Grab.” “Mr. R. B. Smith banqueted in two
places, and there is no more joy in the faces of the
community than if news came that he had been
shot in two places.” The foregoing blasphemous
sentenced from the Echo. Fancy talking of a dis-
tinguished man as if he were two loads of manure,
v
Anti-French feeling exhibited at Shanghai
by the local Chinkies shanghaing French sailors
ashore Waddlngton, an ex-English public school
boy, goes to London asj ambassador of France.
Appointment said to be a pledge of amity. Fudge!
China likely to have her hands full if, as ’tis re-
ported, the ’pact made between the Russian Go-
vernment and the Marquis Tseng is coming to an
end. General Tchernaieff is in Khokand ready to
act upon Kashgar, so that should Franco and
Russia agree upon a concerted plan of action,
Emperor Kuang Sil will soon be over his boots in
hot water . The Bourbon and Orleans parties are
fused at last. Louis Philippe, Comte do Paris,
who has been recognised by the moribund Comte
do Chambord as his successor, is the grandson of
Egallte and son ot the man “ whoso head was like a
pear.” “ Bismarck and I,” said Beaconsfleld
after his fall from power, “wore perfectly d'accord.
Had the late Government lasted, we would have
kept the democrats of Europe in check.”
Continental Powers deny De Lesseps’ claim to a
monopoly in Suez canal enteprise Saul Samuel,
in his recent letter on the beauties of our immigra-
tion system, lied like a K.C.M.G. Unconsciously,
of course Chili has given the Peruvians another
thrashing.. .Gauhany’s own liar at Moscow writes
via Woolloomooloo about the coronation. Inter
alia he or she remarks:—“ During the whole day
the streets and public places of Moscow had, of
course, been crowded by thousands and thousands
of true Russians, who kissed each other, crossed
each other, and had only one and the same greet-
ing for each other— ‘ Long live the Czar!’” Of
course! France endeavouring to force a con-
vention with Slam.
The master of the American ship Chryso-
lite, which recently arrived at Portland, Victoria,
did not know of the existence of Melbourne. We
feel overwhelmed with joy to know that he had
heard of Twofold Bay and Port Jackson. The
same maritime genius, not knowing British coin-
age, demurred to give a blacksmith 7s. 6d. for work
done, but consented to pay him 7 dol. 6 cents.
A man from Jamboroo (who wasn’t worth
a cent) went to the Turkish bath the other day*
and when ready proceeded to padlock his door.
Then, turning to a merchant in “dishabil” (worth
rather over ±1100,000), the stranger said: “ I’ve the
utmost confidence in your honesty, mate, but I
know what a terrible temptation a new pair of
bluchers is.” Then he hung the key round his
neck, and carried his feet into the sulphur-room.
There is bad news from Melbourne— they
are starting a Jewish Young Men’s Association.
The entrance fee is to be 10s., and for this insignifi-
cant sum the young Israelites are promised oppor-
tunities for spending spare evenings and acquiring
a lot of useful knowledge. This reads innocently
enough, but we are haunted with the dreadful
suspicion that if those young men learn much
more than they know at present, there will be a
general exodus of Gentiles from Victoria. In the
memorable words of Aaron Vaxman, “Ho, Jump-
ing Moses!”
The Age asserts that, because a cortege of
Oddfellows followed one of their deceased mem-
bers to the grave, the R.C. clergyman told off to
give the dead man’s spirit a lift by means of a
prayer or two, on seeing their symbols “ made
some exclamations of disgust, and, tearing off his
robe, turned upon his heel and walked off.” Can
it be that the holy one mistook the innocuously
symbolical tomfoolery of the Oddfellows for a
Masonic emblem ? Strange, is it not, that that
which Itself depends so largely on dress should
show its teeth so when it sees a layman trying to
look comfortable under the depressing influence
of a gown, or an apron, or a sash ?
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Without bis meaning it, Buchanan’s last
article against Freethought is a strongish contri-
bution in supportof revolt against the Christianity
of the churches and the trammels of sectarian
orthodoxy. Faraday, whom he calls as a witness
tor the prosecution of the Freethinker, was him-
self a Freethinker. How was it that David never
i eferred to that freest of thinkers, the Glassite
Sandeman, whom once ho used to be continually
telling the public he regarded as his guide ?
Thus “An Orgngeman“Heaven help
us all if such good men as Mr. Madgwick, Dr. Zach-
ary Barry, Pastor Allen, and all those good men
developed by Orangeism should die, and such as
‘Hawkeye’ should ever rule in the land!” The
pulverization of blatant bigots and the distribution
of their bones among the turnip-fields of the colony
doesn’t necessarily involve the setting up of ‘Hawk-
eye’ to rule over us—though, we may remark, en
passant, that we have a prejudice in favour of
writers who can speak and write the Queen s Eng-
lish—people, for example, who, like that illustrious
Orangeman, John Davies, can spell “ January.”
Then, as to Hicks’ letter in the Echo— Who wrote
it 1 Answer, O Hicks!
The verdict in the Osborne alleged heresy
case is: “ Not guilty, but don’t do it again.” Any-
thing weaker, more illogical, more redolent of a
foregone conclusion, was never heard of. Here it
is:—“That after hearing Mr. Osborne’s frank de-
claration of his belief In the Deity of the Lord
Jesus Christ, in His atonement for sin by His death,
in the Deity of the Holy Ghost, in the plenary In-
spiration of the Holy Scriptures, and m the effi-
cacy of prayer, having heard also his declaration
of sincere attachment to Methodist doctrine gener-
ally, as embodied in our acknowledged stan-
dards, wo cordially accept his statements as
full and satisfactory. At the same time
we regret that his method of presenting
these truths is ot times so inexact as to
Eroduce the impression on the minds of some that
e is erroneous in doctrine. 2. In reference to the
sermon delivered in the York-street Church on
Sunday evening, April 23,1883, on Roman Catholic-
ism, we are convinced that Mr. Osborne is sound in
the doctrines of Protestantism as held by the
Methodist Cuurch. Yet, from the evidence, we
arc satisfied that in the former part of his discourse
he was so unguarded in his statements as to appear
to advance doctrines not in harmony with our
standards.” Who can read such a finding, with its
inclusive " yet” and “at the same time, ’ without
realising how chockfull it is of that worst form of
clerical error, uncharitableness.
Rev. T. Callaghan, till lately ft Roman
Catholic priest, has been admitted a priest of the
Anglican Church in Otago (N.Z.)
• • •
At the Dubbo Orange celebration, a
clergyman said that the R.C. priests who minis-
tered to the Phoenix Park murderers in their pre-
parations for the next world were as bad as the
assassins themselves .. .The Rev. John Hobbs is
dead. He w*s a New Zealand Wesleyan Minister,
and was only 84 when he died. According to the
New Zealand Herald, he observed before dying;
“ God knows I have done ray poor best.” He leaves
ten children....The Melbourne Catholics who at-
tend the ministrations of the Salvation Army are
not to be absolved in future until they confess to
Archbishop Goold himself. It is at last worth
while to listen to these interesting people, because
of the opportunity it gives one of stuffing the
good ecclesiastic with a lot of useful information.
....The Bishop of Melbourne is about to lecture
on the Apocalypse, and the “ Low ” Victorians, who
are afraid of his breadth, dread lest ho should make
some awkward revelations—Rev. W. Grant, of
Shoalhaven, has had conferred on him, by the
Queen's University. Kingston, Canada, the hono-
rary degree of D.D....The Rev. Mr. M'Donald,
missionary from the New Hebrides, affirmed (at a
meeting held in Melbourne) that the natives ot
those islands were in favour of annexation by
Great Britain, and were in fear of the interference
of France. Bosh! or, as Mademoiselle Hortense
would have observed, “Lie! All lie!” — The Con-
gregational Jubilee scooped in over thirty thou.
Jubilate!....Mrs. Hampson is gospel missioning it
in Adelaide ...Even when announcing the Con-
gregational haul of thirty thou, at the final Jubilee
public meeting, Jefferis couldn’t refrain from the
stereotyped whine, “ What they wanted that night
was to absolutely wipe off a certain debt ot £2000.”
And the plate went round Orthodox Anglicans
will bo pleased to know that immediately after
the drapers’ meeting, where he had been brought
into contact with Mr. Charles Bright, the Very
Reverend the Dean of Sydney had his gaiters and
shovel carefully fumigated with sulphur. .. The
N.S.W. Liberal Association has lost two Presidents
by death within a few weeks. The hand of an
outraged Deity is seen in this quite plainly by the
Y.M.C.A The Pitcairn Islanders (descendants
of the mutineers of the Bounty) have been visited
again. They appear to have plenty of bibles, but
no cattle; and they seemed anxious to trade off a
lot of the former for a few of the latter. But the
visitors themselves had tons of bibles they had
brought for the islanders; so trade was not brisk.
When the travellers wore about to leave, some of
the natives—seeing they could get no stock-
cruelly asked them to send a “Concordance, or, if
not, some books explaining the Bible.” This was
a trifle rough on those good people who think that
to reclaim a sinner or a savage it is only necessary
to present him with a Testament.
* * *
A Low Church of England paper that has
a down on Archdeacon (late Canon) Farrar's
breadth, tells an infernal lie about a man who by
reading Farrar’s book had his faith “ shaken in the
absolute necessity of rectitude of heart and life, in
order to enter Heaven.” Ho became a sceptic,
plunged into gross immorality, and died crying
that it was now “too late!” “John Bull,
speaking of Ritualistic troubles in England says:
“But the/oas etnrigo mail is the law itself; a law
which pursues good men to imprisonment aud
expulsion for ceremonies which are to them
matters of conscience and religion ; while it daily
allows bad men to escape conviction from defect
of procedure, and even lets the drunkard and the
incontinent keep their benefices, and return after
conviction to Ministrations which they pollute, and
a flock whom they contaminate.” The Bishop of
Oxford, in his recent charge, states that the ratio
of illegitimate births was raised in proportion to
the number of the meetings of the Salvation Army,
and Booth retorts that the Right Rev. John F.
Oxon. is a liar M. Renan says that he receives
regularly, several times a year, an anonymous
letter, always in the same handwriting, which con-
tains nothing but these words: “ Si pourtant il V
avail un mfer.” The Home News tells us that
on the morning of his marriage, Mr. Charles Bewes
found a cheque for £25,000 under his plate. It was
a present from an uncle of his in the Church. The
cheque was, of course, dishonoured.
Chorus of Sharking Lawyers and Scamps: “ Amend the Libel Laws ? Unmuzzle the Watch-dog? Good Heavens, Dailey, consider. He might bark! ”
ODE TO OSBORNE.
Back to the to id, once more to preach
Thy doctrines, bold divine; '
Thy Liberal lessons still to teach ?—
Well—not quite, we opine!
There’s bread and dripping for the men
Who fearless doctrines utter;
But, if you crawl, bold Osborne, then
There’s always bread and butter.
The church, the law, the press, the stage—
Tis one thing with them all;
If you’d success score in this age,
By thunder, you must crawl!
Yes; on dull lawyers you must fawn,
Bad “ stars oa, flatter them!
Shoes dust of men who sport the “ lawn,”
And kiss the gaiter’s hem.
What! talk of “ proper pride!” oh, bah!
Don’t let that tale be told;
As we live ’tis too stilted tar,
Too weak-kneed, and too old.
Live well; get fat; pile up the “greed;”
Preach anything at all;
And, bear in mind, you can’t succeed
Unless you humbly crawl.
So, why, stout Osborne, can’t you wink
At doctrines you deem wrong?
By printing things they cannot think ,
Small editors grow strong.
Speak dull men’s words. What should you care
Since, if ’bove cloudlets blue,
There’s heaven, and you think you’ll go there—
That’s quite enough for you I


"THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession.]
When interviewed by a Philadelphia
Press reporter, Walter Reynolds said J. C. William-
son had saved at least £30,000 io Australia, and was
at this day the most extensive speculator in musical
and dramatic material.... Rumoured that a certain
theatrical company in the provinces have “ bust
up,” and are now walking back to toAvn, and enjoy-
ing a veaetable diet by the way... Brutal sciolism
can no further go than this bonne honche, by the
ignoramus who writes Dramatic and Musical
Gossip for the Adelaide Observer :—“Pinero’s
successful drama of ‘The Squire’ is running at
the Bijou Theatre with Wybert Reeve in the title
r6le.” Heavenly hosts ! the grizzly Wybert mas-
querading as Madge Kendal’s lovely Kate
Verity ! Gordon Gooch conducted a con-
cert at Auckland on the 35th ultimo. It was
packed. The chief attraction was Miss M. Green-
wood, who, four years ago, played with success at
Amy Sherwin’s concerts. She la only 12 years old,
but the manner in which she played from memory
selections from Beethoven, Liszt, and Weber
“ fetched ” the audience, and showed that the
mantle of some great performer had fallen on her..
Gift dioramas always draw like porous plasters at
Auckland. N.Z. Rainer hardly knows how to ac-
commodate his crowds—Ross, of Woodyear and
Ross's Circus tame, died on a recent trip of
one of the mail steamers to ’Frisco.,, .We see they
are burning women for witchcraft in Sierra Leone.
We are verv sorry to hear this Indeed, being rather
partial to the sex. One thing, though, makes us
easy in our minds. Our Australian conjurors need
not be afraid to go there. They would be quite
safe Nyum I nyuml The Argus says Mr. Prank
Cates “is the best juvenile lover on the colonial
stage.” Wo know who is the best juvenile lover
off the colonial stage —Perhaps the poorest
attempt at a joke and the direst confusion of
metaphor ever perpetrated will be found In the
following paragraph, culled from a “respectable”
South Australian daily’s criticism of a performance
of “La Perlchole”: “It must be confessed that
though much of the opera was cut the glass was of
rather a plebeian description.
• • •
Th3 divorce suit pending between Mrs.
Boucicault and her husband has given way t) a
reconciliation. The domestic drama has ended in
the best Boucicaultian style—“ Agnes!" “ Dion!"
“Me own!” “Me only!” “At la-a-st, at la-a-st!”
Tum-yum. ..Alice Dunning Llngard is again in
America. Mrs Langtry had poor business in Phila-
delphia, and gots »“real mad” that Freddie afforded
no consolation Boucicault, having faded from
view as an actor, after perpetrating “ The Amadan'
as a playwright, is said to have been engaged by
Mrs. Langtry to write an original drama for her
next season’s tour—According to a N.Y. paper
“The Australians call Bandraann, the actor, th$
lawyer’s best friend”.. .Charles Kean, once when
playing the “ Stranger," brought tears to the eyes
of a ballet girl. He took her to his wife, and said;
“Ellen, we must do better for this girl; she has a
soul,” and the girl was advanced accordingly. The
next night “Jealous Wife” was played, and
another ballet girl displayed her mistaken smart-
ness by crying in the wings. “Ellen, my i ear,”
observed Kean, “ we must dispense with
this girl; she weeps at our comedy.”
FATHER AND SON.
The boy stood on the gallery floor,
At the naughty female show,
And cast bis glances o’er
Bald-headed sin below.
“I'm too far back," be sadly said,
Yet dared not forward go,
For he saw his aged father’s head
First In the foremost row.
Adam Foropaugh, the circus man, says he
moans bringing a big troupe to Australia. By the
way, his giant, Henry Cooper Alexander, was the
witness who convicted Henry Vail for the murder
of his wife in London lasr year. The giant saw the
murder from the footpath by standing on tiptoe
and looking in at the second floor window of the
rooms from whence a woman’s screams were
heard. One of Forepaugh’s leading attractions in
Australia Is to be an act Introduced by Nala Daraa-
jante, a Hindoo snake-charming girl. She has a
dozen enormous snakes which she twists around
her in every conceivable way, ending her act by
encircling herself with all the reptiles and taking
an enormous one in the middle by her teeth and
walking around the enclosure with its h. ad and
body dragging Salvini has now left the States
for England Irving sails from Liverpool for
N.Y. October 11 A London contemporary con-
gratulates its readers upon the proposed “last”
farewell of Ristori in that city next September.
Ristori’s first “last” farewell to England occurred
at the Queen’s Theatre, Manchester, November 8,
1873. It is probable that the veteran actress will be
giving “very last farewells” In Australia in 1884
The green room of a Paris theatre was crowded
with old gentlemen who accompanied the actresses
as escorts. Each actress alleged that the aged
attendant was her father. Sometimes more than
one old gentleman would accompany an actress,
and the green room became so crowded that at last
the director was compelled to put up a notice to
the following tenor and effect: “ Hereafter each
and every actress connected with this theatre will
he allowed to bring into the green room only one
father at a time.” Some time ago the daughter
of Laurence Barrett, the American tragedian, was
being courted by a very wealthy young man, whom
the worl.i regarded as peculiarly eligible. But
Laurence dismissed him, because he didn’t know
who Cmsar’s father was! Now the girl is going to
marry a German Baron, and when it is all over
Barrett will be more imperious than ever when he
orders chipped potatoes for breakfast in the same
tone of voice that ho launches the curse of Rome
upon the mashers who are trying to get his girl
awav from him in “ Richelieu. Laurence will be a
brevet baron after the wedding....Henry E.
Abbey’s wife is dead.... Pontius Pilate, known at
home ns A. H. Warren, has sued Salmi Morse and
partners in the “Passion” play for arrears of
Salary, amounting to £350—A story has been
fbihg round that Fanny Kellogg is insane. Pro-
ably so- The N.Y* Mercury, 13th May, says:
‘i Fanny Kejlo'gg became Ml'S- Mix Bachert during
the post week-’ She lias now quarrelled with, and
ffom M a k — Tl;e referee in the suit of
M}nnjQ Cqn way, fo have nor marriage with Levy the
pppnef player, qmiqUptJ. lias made his report in her
Sf avqqr;... It now gppegrs that the late attack upon
O'Brien’s Cirpqa at Dover, Del., when the audience
op fhp o anpany, was provoked by the clown,
maddened i h® audience by atttemping several
f|pw jokes It is being gossiped in Loudon that
Sara Bernhardt’s marriage not being recognized in
Francp, M. Damala has ceded hig’uiafital rights, and
mg erratic spouse is again comparatively free...,
Yoqug Bernhardt ig qcW manager of the Porte St.
Martin Theatre, Pfirig, and hqs engaged his mama
to play two hundred nights in each season for ten
years, and the attenuated Sara proposes to begin
her engagement as Frou-Frou The 130
days’ ruu of “Fedora," in Paris, resulted thus:
Sardou. the author, £6350; Sara Bernhardt, star,
£5800. Total receipts, £36,003. So that author and
actress together took nearly half the gross re-
ceipts Sims Reeves has seen his day at last. He
was recently engaged for a “more song” in Lon-
don We are sorry to hoar that, after the first
flush of novelty was over, Alice Lingard failed to
draw in London as Camille, and the season ended
Prematurely, Mr. Bruce paying dearly for his ven-
ure In her twenty-four weeks’ American en-
gagement, Mi’S. Langtry netted £45,933. To reverse
Shakespeare, this is indeed gilding the Illy Our
old friend, E. D. Davies, the ventriloquist, who is
now in England, was arrested in Queenstown. The
Customs authorities took some paraphernalia for a
dynamite machine. “Ain’t it lovely, Teddy?”....
Lilian Russell, the American variety actress,
eloped from N.Y., June 7th, with Ed. Solomon,
composer of “Billee Taylor,” and other English
operas. The parties went to England, where Miss
Russell will probably appear in the title r&le of the
“White Sergeant" in Solomon’s new opera—
Hewett Musettes were at Port Elizabeth, 18th
April, en route for England—London aristocrats
are crazed about the stage. It Is an attack that
probably wqq’t last long; but the aristocrats have
It very bad at present. It is quite the thing now
to know an actress, and eminently fashionable to
make a fuss about her. Sunday dinner parties are
got up to meet some star of the stage; Sunday
afternoons devoted to driving about from one
divinity to another; and Sunday evenings in Bcl-
gravian drawing rooms, arc scones of green-room
gossip and wretched recitations. Of course, actors
and actresses don’t mind; they take care that
there is a liberal unloosening of the aristocratic
purse strings.... Mrs. Bracy (Clara Thompson) has
permanently retired from the stage In Minnie
Conway’s suit for divorce against De Belleville,
the actor (who was in Australia with the London
Comedy Company), it was alleged that he had not
only married and then deserted three women, but
that he had at different times beaten each one so
as to necessitate going under a doctor’s hands
Again the story is printed that Mrs. Langtry in-
tends getting a divorce in America...Fanny Kellog,
the operatic singer, insane Two Anglican par-
sons run the Madison Square Theatre, New York.
Mr. George Bashford.
Mr. Bashford, the well-known successful
Queensland railway contractor, was born at
Worthing, Sussex, in November, 1844), where
his youth was spent assisting his father as a
market-gardener. Becoming enamour ed of
the sparkling inducements proffered by
Brassey and Co. to men desirous of obtaining
work abroad, the subject of this sketch
arrived in Queensland about 1865, as an em-
ployee of the largest contracting firm ever
known. The railway contract of Brassey
extended from Ipswich to Toowoomba, and
here Bash lord worked for some little time.
He started market-gardening in the former
town, and from that worked into under-
taking small road contracts. Shrewdness
and good business tact secured success, and
in 1875 the small contracts gave place to a big
railway contract. Since that year, Mr. Bash-
ford has constructed the Dalhy and Roma,
and the Brisbane to Sandgate, railways,
also the last length of i he Northern line into
Charters Towers—in all, some 160 miles —to
the entire satisfaction of the Queensland
Government; besides executing several lines
of railway for private firms. During the
construction of the Roma section, fever and
sandy blight laid low hundreds of his best
men, of whom many owe life to the constant
personal attention paid by Mr. Bashford to
his helpless sick workmen. On this contrast
he built and sustained at his own entire ex-
pense a hospital that would do credit to
many a settled town, At Daahford's camp
rich and poor were treated alike. Although
at the turning the “first sod’’ of any new
contract Mr, Bashford was always accus-
tomed to entertain at most sumptuous ban-
quets the “powers that be,’’ he never forgot
the navvies, whom he personally looked
after. Ballasting on a very warm day, on
getting off his engine Mr. Bashford would
see ohalk.-d on the waggons by some thirsty
soul, “It is very hot”—a hint he never failed
to take. A few months ago, on the
occasion of Mr. Bashford retiring from
railway contracting in Queensland, a very
large meeting of ms old navvies duly met
and presented him with a gold watch and
chain as a small memento of their respect.
Mr. Bashford is a candidate for Ipswich at
the forthcoming general election, as a
straight supporter of Sam. Griffith, and a
determined adversary to Land-Grant Rail-
way construction. Mr. Bashford has lots
of friends in Ipswich—the town he first
entered as a friendless working man—and
has been promised influential support.
Oppositionists will rally round him, and
make him the champion of their cause. His
genial and liberal disposition has created
tor him so many personal admirers that
it will take a good man to run him.
Although an entirely self-made man in every
sense—one risen by his own unaided energies
from comparative penury to opuleuce,—
George Bashford is not one of the purse-
proud sort. Since closing his career as a
contractor he has toured the colonies to ac-
quire information likely to be serviceable to
him in public life as representative of Ips-
wich, where he has founded his home. Our
Sortrait is from a photograph by Tuttle, of
eorge-atreet.
Mr. William Clark.
There is no countenance better known in
Sydney than that which is represented on
our first page—Mr. William Clark, of the
firm of Hill, Clark, and Co., the well-known
stock and station agents and wool-hrokers.
Mr. Clark has lived his life among us, having
arrived in the Colony from Tasmania, ins
native place, while quite a child. He was
educated at the “Normal School” of the
Rev. Thomas Aitken, in King-street, and in
1852 entered upon that commercial career to
which he has, with one temporary deviation,
ever since adhered. Messrs. Brierly, Dean,
and Co., at that time the principal mer-
chants and shipping agents in Australia,
were his first employers, and after some six
or seven years experience in their office,
Mr. Clark accepted a position with the house
of Messrs. Donaldson faf ter wards Sir Stuart
Donaldson), Graham, and Co. The head of
the firm being Premier of the Colony, and
having taken a great liking to young Clark,
pressed upon him an appointment in the
Colonial Secretany’s Department. The hum-
drum of an official life, was nor, however,
consonant with the energetic temperament
of the young man. He returned to his old
love, commercial employment, resuming his
former position, and there he remained
for years, during which several changes
occurred in the constitution of the
firm. During all the time, however,
the business ran in the same grooves,
and Mr. Clark gained a degree of ex-
Eerienee in all matters relating to station
usiness, and the disposal of stock, wool,
and so forth, which has since been of incal-
culable value to him, and now ranks him
amongtheforeraostexpertsin these branches
of Australian commerce. His abilities were
availed of by the Melbourne firm of Etter-
shank, Eaglestone, and Co., who entrusted
their Sydney branch to his management.
But his value was too great to be perma-
nently at the service of others, and he was
admitted a partner in the firm of Maiden,
Hill, and Clark, now—since the retirement
of Mr. Maiden —Hill and Clark, and was
materially instrumental in gaining for it the
leading position among Sydney houses, and
in attracting to it the increasing business to
meet which the firm are about to erect large
and capacious stores at the Circular Quay, in
addition to their already extensive premises.
Mr. Clark is just as well known in social ns
in commercial circles. His name, coupled
with those of his athletic brothers, is known
wherever colonial manly sports arediscussed,
as that of a good all-round man. He has
pulled, In his day, a good oar, and wielded a
skilful bat; while, with the gloves on, he is,
though no longer a light-weight, still a
formidable adversary. His good-humoured
features well express his disposition.
The Commercial Banking Company of
Sydney has yet drain struck a35 per cent, dividend.
They always do it. Are there no fluctuations in
their biz. ?
Thus Mrs. Osborne, in her depositions taken
in the Concord mystery case“ Emma Watson is
a Sunday-school teacher, and that was why I
wanted to keep the matter quiet. When my hus-
band heard it he was very angry, and said when
Emma got out of bed she would have to leave.
The baby was a very small one, and wont into the
box produced very easily. My daughter Emma
taught at the Congregational Church Sunday-
school. The Rev. Mr. Howden is the pastor.”
Miss Emma evidently had an eye to keep up the
congregation, and as it was “ only a little one,” her
mother perhaps thought it was of no consequence.
The Australasian entertains a cruel sus-
picion that Mr. Dow’s Instructive agricultural
letter to the Age was not quite genuine, consider-
ing that the boat in which it came left San Fran-
cisco two days before Dow, M.L.A., arrived there.
In fact, there are hints thrown out that the note
knows a good deal more of Collins-street than of
the Pacific slope. The Age, of course, answers,
and accuses Captain Armlt (the Argus’ plenipo-
tentiary to Queensland) of being a relative of the
Armit alias “Captain Lawson,” who lifted us out
of our chairs a few years ago with a sensational
book on New Guinea. The Age must be very hard
up for a defence, when it indulges in a tu quoque of
this sort. It reminds one of “ I ought to be a good
musician, for I once knew a man who had a
brother-in-law who played the German concer-
tina.
To Whom it may Concern.
rpHE proprietors of the article to which atten-
tion is directed in this column firmly believe
that there is nothing unmercantile or unprofes-
sional in giving the widest publicity, by means of
the Press and otherwise, to articles of unques-
tioned merit, whether of a medicinal or other
nature. They futhermore believe that the sweep-
ing objection occasionally urged by some people
against advertised preparations is born of dis-
honesty rather than of unprejudiced judgment.
Fully convinced of the extraordinary power of St.
Jacobs Oil to conquer pain, as demonstrated in
millions and millions of homos in every land and
clime, they unhesitatingly offer the article to the
public in every civilized country ns the most
wonderful pain-curing and healing remedy ever
discovered; and they do this by methods which
they hold to be not only honourable and business-
like. but in every way right and proper. Believing
that a medicine, like a man, is best judged by its
standing at home, the proprietors of St. Jacobs Oil
present, in connection with the testimonials of
numerous residents of the Australian colonies, the
emphatic endorsement of some of the most emi-
nent men, in public and private life, in the United
States of America, where, in the homes of over 50
millions of people, St. Jacobs Oil has long been
a synonymous term with “ it Conquers Pain.”
The public will please note that in every instance
the names are those of well-known responsible
parties. These are not silent witnesses. Th
statements are nineteenth century facts. The
parties whose testimony is given are all alive. No
graveyards have been robbed to swell the list.
The Praises of Prominent
Men.
An important statement by a member of one of
the most substantial houses in New South Wales.
Office of R. Towns and Co..
Sydney, November 14,1883,
Messrs. Elliott Brothers,
Wholesale Druggists, Sydney.
Gentlemen,—Would you oblige mo by sending
me a case oj St. Jacobs Oil for a friend of mine,
who is a firm believer in this remedy. Ho uses it
when troubled with rheumatism, and so do various
members of his household for various complaints.
1 always keep a bottle in my own house, as it seems
to be a useful household remedy, and as 1 men-
tioned to you, it cured our storekeeper’s wife who
was suffering from rheumatism.
Yours faithfully,
WM. RD. WILSON.
“The Result was Most
Gratifying!”
Sydney, N. S. Wales,
J uly 14, 1883.
Messrs. Elliott Bros., Wholesale Druggists,
Dear Sirs, — CRy*
The statements of a number of our citizens
which are at present being given to the public
through the medium of the Press respecting St.
Jacobs Oil, suggest to me the propriety of adding
my own experience for the benefit of all con-
cerned.
1 was recently induced to give this highly praised
remedy a trial in severe and painful rheumatism
with which my wife was troubled. I confess the
result was most gratifying, not only hi this case,
but in several otaers among my friends which hav e
come to my notice. The effect in every instance
was such as to convince me that St. Jacobs Oil
conquers pain, and is therefore fully worthy of the
highest praise.
Very respectfully,
E. A. LITTLE.
Manager American Novelty Co..
801 and 301, Pitt-street, Sydney.
A Steamship Officer’s
Statement.
Sydney Harbour, July 13,1883,
Pacific Mail Steamship City of New York.
Messrs. Publishers “Evening News.”
Gentlemen :—
For the benefit of the general public, I beg to
state that I have used St. Jacobs Oil for acute
Neuralgia in the face, and obtained astonishing re-
lief. I am satisfied that this remedy is a first-class
thing. One of the cooks on board the S. S. City of
New York, was also cured of verv severe Rheu-
matism by a few applications of this same article.
In my 30 years’ experience on the sea,I have found
nothing that I can so highly recommend tor the
cure of pain as St. Jacobs Oil.
Very respectfully,
WM. H. HAWES.
Second Officer P.M.S.S. City of New York.
The United States of
America.
Gen. RUFUS INGALLS, Quartermaster-General
United State Army:
“ St. Jacobs Oil is the best pain cure ever used.”
Hon. BTLLA FLINT, Life Senator of the Dominion
Parliament, Canada:
“ I found St. Jacobs Oil to act like a charm,’*
Hon. J. C. NEW, Assistant Secretary, United States
Treasury Department:
“ I cheerfully endorse St. Jacobs Oil, the great
pain cure.”
Hon. DANIEL W. VOORHEES, United States
Senator from the State of Indiana:
“ St. Jacobs Oil gave instantaneous relief, A re-
markable remedy.”
£100 REWARD.—A Cash Reward of One Hun-
dred Pounds will be paid by the Charles A. Yogeler
Company, Baltimore, Maryland, U.S.A., Proprie-
tors of St. Jacobs Oil, or by their accredited focal
representatives in all parts of the world, for proof
showing that the testimonials published by them
are not strictly genuine.
H. S. CHIPMAN, General Agent for the Austral-
asian Colonies. Offices: Sydney, N.S.W., and
Melbourne, Victoria.
The Groat German Remedy, ST. JACOBS OIL
conquers Pain. It cures Rheumatism, Neuralgia’
Sprains, Bruises, Burns, Cuts, Swellings, Stiffness,
Headache, Toothache, Backache, Sore Throat and
other bodily pains. Sold by Druggists and Che-
mists everywhere. Price, half-a-crown per bottle.
Directions for use in eleven languages.
BROTHERS, Sydney, Wholesale
Depot for New South Wales.
MR. GEORGE BASHFORD, THE QUEENSLAND RAILWAY CONTRACTOR.


stelik.
W. Howard Smith and Sons,
STRUTH’S WHARF and NEW WHARF
(Foot of King Street).
Offices; 43 KING STREET.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Brisbane to Port Mackay and Townsville
every fortnight.
Fleet op Steamships:
43 King Street, Sydney.
Armstrong's Remedy for Internal or
Bleeding Piles
Rapidly superseding all other modes of treatment.
For the CURB of HEMMERHOIDS, largely pre-
scribed by the Faculty. It improves the general
HEALTH, equalises the CIRCULATION, relieves
CONGESTION, stops BLEEDING, Pain, and Itch-
ing, in from 34 to 38 hours. Sold in bottles only, at
4s. 6d. and 10s.
ARMSTRONG’S PARAGON PILE OINTMENT.
FOR OUTWARD PILES. Price, 3s.
Armstrong’s (Camomile) Liver and Bilious
PiUs,
For the Cure of Indigestion, Dyspepsia,P ains in
the Side, Headache, Giddiness, Heartburn, Flatu-
lency, and Habitual Constipation. They give a
Healthy Tone and Vigour to the necessary Organs
of Digestion—the Stomach and Liver—and being
mild in their operation, promote Digestion, restore
the Appetite, and strengthen the entire System.
Price, Is., 3a., and 4s. 6d.
Armstrong’s Red Jamaica Sarsaparilla,
in Combination with Dandelion and Potash.
“ Recommended by the Highest Medical authority
as a Vitalising Blood Restorative and Tonic.”
5s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 31s.
Goods forwarded to all parts of the colonies
and Price Lists sent post free.
160 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Two Doors below Compagnonl’s.
Bad Legs, Constitutional
Diseases, &c.
To Mr. Cooper, 340 Crown-street.
For five years I suffered intensely with bad logs;
I have been treated by our best doctors, and I have
tried nearly every remedy procurable, but I gene-
rally grew worse instead ot better. My ago is 53,
and I fully expected to suffer for the rest of my
life, until I hoard of some of your cures, and
before I had been a week under your treatment I
was better. My legs are quite healed, and I never
felt better in my life than I do now-Mns. E.
Harden, Tate-street, North Shore.
To Mr. Cooper.
I wish to make known the benefit of your treat-
ment in my case. I had bad logs for two years,
and could get no relief anywhere ; you cured me
in less than a month.—R. T. Eastway, Eastway
Brothers, Goorge-street.
To Mr. Cooper.
I beg to add my testimony to the efficiency of
your treatment. I had a bad leg for 16 months ; I
was under the care of three doctors, but when I
came to you I was worse than before. My leg is
now quite healed, and I am well. I give you this,
so that others suffering may know where to go to
get cured.— James M. Floyd, Fairford-street,
Petersham.
Other Testimonials too numerous to print.
Hundi-eds of people in New South Wales can
testify to the cures effected by H. W. Cooper’s in-
vention, and he has only been in the colony nine
months.
H. W. COOPER, 340 Crown-street,
Opposite Reservoir.
Advice gratis.
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
THE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco of the Age !
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The only Tobacco combining Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Price.
fW Each PLUG is STAMPED with the word
“ EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain it.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
Sayweli’s Ttliaceo Co., Lin.
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
And can be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse,
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO,
Registered according to Act of Parliament, to pro-
tect the public against spurious and worthless
imitations.
Emil Paterson,
ARCHITECT AND CIVIL ENGINEER,
NO. 4 PITT STREET.
315 George Street.
A few of our undertakings MOST SUCCESS
FULLY carried out, among which will be found
the LARGEST, MOST DIFFICULT, and MOST
RESPONSIBLE events that have taken place since
the opening of this establishment.
His Worship the MAYOR’S PICNIC, for 450, at
Clontarf.
His Worship the MAYOR’S BALL, for 1600, Exhi-
bition Building, at which his Worshm, John
Harris, entertained their R.H.’s PRINCES AL-
BERT and GEORGE, EARL CLAN WILLIAM,
and the Officers of the Detached Squadron.
MASONIC BALL. English Constitution, for 1352,
Exhibition Building.
MASONIC BALL, N.S.W. Constitution, at Town
Hall, Sydney.
Visit of their U.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Lithgow Valley Mines and Zigzag.
Dinner «i la Rus sc, for 60, in Government Palace
Dining Car while travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000 SCHOOL CH1L-
DREN— re Queen’s Statue Demonstration—undei
VERY SHORT NOTICE, only receiving the
order at 2.30 p.ra., to be ready on the spot at 12.30
p.m. the following day.
Visit of THEIR R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT anu
GEORGE to Captain Cook’s Landing, south side
of Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon and refresh-
ment, for 100, under VERY SHORT NOTICE, re-
ceiving order at 9.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot
at 1 p.m. following day.
The LADY MAYORESS’ RECEPTIONS, Town
Hall.
The UNION CLUB BACHELOR’S BALL, at Exhi-
bition Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE WINDEYBK.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE INNES.
Dinner A la R-wsse at St. Paul’s College, for 150 Mem
bers of the CBURCH OF ENGLAND SYNOD
Dinner A la Russe to the INTERCOLONIAL R1F1 K
TEAMS, Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at HAWK h M
BURY RACES, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at RAND
WICK RACES, in Grand Stand.
The CONSULAR DINNER, in our new Banquet
Room.
ARMIDALE RAILWAY Demonstrations. Ban-
ouet for 400; MAYOR’S BALL, 600, same evening
and CITIZEN’S BALL, 500, the following even-
ing.
ALBURY-WODONGA RAILWAY DEMONSTRA-
TION —Grand Government Banquet for 1016
at Albury. Grand Ball, 800, following night.
Children’s feast, 1184, the following afternoon
and evening. Also, Breakfasts, Dinners, Teas,
and Suppers, in Government Dining Car, to
His Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus, the
Ministry, and Ms.P., while travelling to and
from Banquet, &c,, &c.
Numerous Banquets and Entertainments by H18
WORSHIP THE MAYOR at Town Hall, &c.
Numerous Dinners d la Rmse in the N.S.W
GOVERNMENT PALACE DINING CAR, whlh
travelling by rail, on account of the GOVERN
MENT.
Together with a numerous lot of Private Dinners
Feasts, Weddings, Garden Parties, Balls. Tea
Meetings Land Sales, Suppers, Picnics, Fishing
Excursions, &c.
Department of Public Works and Mines.
Brisbane, 12th July, 1883.
TO ARCHITECTS.
NEW PUBLIC OFFICES, BRISBANE.
COMPETITIVE designs are Invited from Archi-
tects for the new Public Offices proposed to
e erected in Brisbane: to be sent In on or before
[)th November next, addressed to the Under Secre-
,irv for Public Works. Brisbane. First prize, £.100;
econd, €200; third, .€100. .
Conditions, with plan and levels of ground, can
e obtained on application at this Office, or at the
'ublie Works Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. EDWARD DEIGHTON,
Under Secretary.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 17th July, 1883.
TENDERS FOR TEMPORARY BUILDING.
FENDERS are invited for the ERECTION of a
temporary Wooden Building for Public
chool purposes, at St. Peters.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and forms
f tender obtained, at the office of the Deportment
f Public Instruction, Sydney. •
Tenders, endorsed Tender for Temporary
luilding, St. Pet‘*rs Public School," must be
idged with the Under Secretary, Department of
ublio Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock a.m. on
[ONDAY, 6th August 1883.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
tester any tender. G. H. REID.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 16th July, 1883.
TENDER FOR REPAIRS.
[TENDERS are Invited for Repairs to the Public
L School, at Ashfield ; Specifications may be
on and Forms of Tender obtained at the office of
e Department of Public Instruction, Sydney, and
the Ashfield Public School, on application to the
'tich6r«
Tenders, endorsed “ • ender for Repairs, Ashfield
ablic School,” must be lodged with the Under-
‘crotarv. Department of Public Instruction, at or
.fore 10 o’clock, a.m., on Monday, the 30th July,
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
west or any Tender. G. H. REID
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 16th July, 1883.
TENDERS FOR TAR PAVING.
IT ENDER* are invited for Tar Paving the Public
School Ground, at Darlington ; Plans and
icciftcations may be seen, and Forms ol Tender
itained at the office of the Department of Public
Te™de t rs n Tender for Tar Paving Dar-
urton Public School,” must be lodged with the
naer-Secretary, Department of Public Instruc-
"n, at or before 10 o’clock a.m., on Monday the
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
west or any Tender. O. H. RETD.
THE HIGH SCHOOL. HOBART, TASMANIA.
Rector: The Rev. R. D. Poulett-Harris, M.A.,
Inltv College, Cambridge. Headmaster: Mr. Ed,
mondson, Christ, Church. Oxford. The salubritv
the Tasmanian climate, combined with the high
uidard maintained by the Council of Education,
s brought the collegiate advantages of the colony
eminently under the notice of Australian
rents The High School occupies the head place
the degree list*. It surpasses all colonial educa-
nal establishments in the healthiness and beauty
its situation, which is upon a slope bordering
, Queen’s Domain, and in the vicinity of the
locket Ground and Saltwater Baths. The T.S.N.
issue return ticket* to scholars at single fares,
(isnectus and terms may be obtained from Mr.
M*ES E CUNNINGHAM, 130 Ellzabeth-street,
iney, or from the Rector.
w
TLCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn shelters
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
&c. &c. &c.
HEBBLEWHITE &CO.
416 GEORGE STREET.
CADET EXAMINATION, SURVEY OFFICE.
IT is hereby notified that an Examination of
Candidates for Employment as Cadets in the
Department of the Surveyor-General will be held
early in November next. The exact date, when
fixed, will be duly notified. Candidates must have
attained the age of 16 years, or they will not be
eligible for examination.
Intending competitors can obtain further in-
formation upon applying by tetter to the Surveyor-
General, or personally to the Secretary and
Cashier.
(S.gned) P. F. ADAMS,
Surveyor-General.
Surveyor-General’s Office,
Sydney, 22nd June, 1883.
AND MANNELL,
SHIRT TAILORS, HOSIERS, & MERCERS,
298 George Street, Sydney.
Established 1844.
Our CELE HRATED WHITE SHIRTS, ready made
JJOs., 40s., 50s., 60s. the half-dozen.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £100,000.
Allow Interest as followsSEVEN PER CENT
on fixed deposits for 13 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PEH
CENT, on sums from £1 to £50 in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
Robert butcher & co
(Late William Long),
tST” WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £137,500
Directors •
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.O., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Oidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:.
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. 1 Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: I Secretary:
F. A. A. Wilson. | Hector Allen.
Branches:
Haymarket, Pyrraont, Redfern, Giralambone,
Gosford, Nyngan, and Bourke.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
London Office: 158 Leadenhall-street
Director: Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent: G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo)
and other produce shipped to England for sate.
m
COMFORtABLE teeth
The use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from loothucnr and decay of the
teeth. There are tl .ee kinus, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the Yellow stops instantly
the most Violent To. 'thache. That with the Green
is invaluable to peisons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
Sums, decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
rops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never su.iei again, but will pre-
serve their teeth touud an 1 white to the end. That
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution—To guard agaif lit naudulent Imitations,
ee that each Label bean the name, “ Wilcox and
Co., 239 Oxford-street, Lon l< u.”
•vA
m
H
DE
ASTHMA,COUGH, BRONCHITIS
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate relief In
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis,
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them invaluable, as they Instantly check the
spasm, promote steep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
see that each box bears the name of “ Wilcox and
Co., 889 Oxford-street, London
W. H. PALING,
352 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Pianofortes,
Pianofortes,
Pianofortes.
By the following renowned English, French, and
German Makers:—
Erard
Pleyel
Collard & Collard
Broadwood & Sons
Kirkman
Soufleto
Frost & Co.
Lipp & Sohn
Anchor
Ronisch
Hundt & Sohn
Bluthner
Steinway
Schledmayer
Challen & Son
Ecke
Elcke
Paling & Co.
A. Bord
Berden & Co.
Herz
Schwechten
Schwander
Forster
And numerous other Manufacturers.
ORGANS by Bell & Co., Palace Organ Company:
Waters & Co., Peloubebt, and others.
Bell & Co’s. Celebrated Organs, besides other
Awards, gained First and Special Prize over all
others at the recent Sydney Exhibition.
HARMONIUMS by Alexander & Co., etc.
A Splendid Stock of MUSIC always on hand,
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
Owing to W. H. P.’s, removal to those immense
promises, next door, lately occupied by Prince,
Ogg and Co., the present Magnificent Stock will be
sold at REDUCED PRICES at
W .
H. PALING'S,
353 GEGRGE STREET. •
|Min
harvest^
ACHINerv
ESS]
CKAMPIO
AND
™«an
MILLS
FLEMING’S Carriage and Machinery Repository
32 and £1 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MOULIWS
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON’S
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and no
lisappolntments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
ill BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
■simulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit),
f’hey are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, l*rice Is. 3<1.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT.—This favourite brand
of Stout selected with great care from the
beat of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
oannot be excelled. To be procured everywhere.
OATTELL & CO:. Sole Agents.


Mr. DeCouroy Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Minina- Board of Now South
Wales), Minina-Expert, Adviser and Minina Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 136 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Departments undertaken. Titles a
special ity.—A pvt.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief;
a small bottle often cures. Ask for ‘‘Arnold’s”
and get it; spurious imitations are sometimes
offered.
Nowhere perhaps has the dentist’s art obtained
such high excellence as In Sydney. Certainly we
are in no sense behind any other city. Visitors to
Sydney might, to test this, visit the establishment
of Messrs. Adolphe Gabriel and Company, 18 Wyn-
yard Square, two doors from PfahlorCs Hotel
Here the manufacture of every essential in the
profession is carried on. At the rear of the surgery
is a compact little factory where all the requisite's
for supplying every dental defect in the human
mouth are made. Messrs. Gabriel and Co. (whose
only address is ns above) are always pleased to
show their specimens of artificial teeth to those
interested. There being two Arms of the same
name in the Square, patients will oblige by paying
particular attention to the Christian name, Adolphe,
and the number, 18, two doors from Pfahlort’s
Hotel.—A_u vr.
It is absurd. At Campbelltown they are
about to establish a library, and the reason as-
signed by the local journal is instructive in its
phenomenal ineptitude. It is because “ a debating
society has been formed, the members of which
require to study the subjects on which they are
about to debate. In the interests of the young
debaters themselves, t is necessary to nip this pro-
ject in the bud. Many promising young orators
have had their lives blasted, and have found an
early grave am mg strangers, through knowing
all about their subject. The true test of genius S
to keep up the interest of an audience in a matter
of which you are entirely ignorant, it is in par-
liamentary life both here and in Victoria that this
talent is found in its highest perfection. However
prejudiced we are against them, it is impossible to
withhold a certain amount of admiration from
Buchanan, H. H. Cooke, Mirams, and M'Coll, when
they stand up to apeak on Christianity, pig-voting,
Sunday observance, and “canawls,” especially
when it is remembered how much they know
about them. It is true we have hoard it called
cheek.”
P
UBLIC NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON k CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 483 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
Os, TWO DOORS NORTH OF OLD SHOP
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The click of poor Jack Gardyne’s pistol
cost the A.M.P. Society £3000, and the death of Mr.
Paget Bjyly lessons their accumulated revenue by
£4000.
Another cleric joined the editorial
staff of the S. M. Herald. That makes seven.
Let’s see. What’s the numberlof the Deadly Sins ?
Seven. “ We are seven.”
Sir Arthur Gordon, when Governor of New
Brunswick, on one occasion reproved a clergyman
because ho did not substitute “ thy servant Arthur”
for “thy servant Victoria” in the prayer for the
Queen.
The Hon. J. Langdon Parsons next Govern-
ment Resident in the Northern Territory. Thus it
will bo noted how, in South Australia at least, there
is always perfect union between patriotism and
a-biilet-y.
General Tom Thumb is dead. It is supposed
that Barnum will have him cremated, and his
ashes put into a locket; or else have him embalmed
and carry the coffin on his (Barnum’s) watch-chain.
So, even’in death he is doomed to be on exhibition.
Parkes’s Hart treasures are to go the
’ainmcr. Amongst ’em the hautographa. Heigh
ho! you say ? Well, there is something sad about
a dispersion of hancestral relics. On dit that
Sirenry has been promised a colonial Governor-
ship.
Mr. H. M. Oansdell, Miller’s protege, now
calls himself “ Professor of Physical Education.”
Ho has a very big Government appointment In his
eye. Hon. G. Hi Reid intends building and pro-
perly appointing a grand public school gymnasium
in Sydney.
A man may have a title and still not be an
important person. For instance, Sir Tatton Sykes
has been converted to Roman Catholicism. Upon
which Truth observes: “This is not any more
important than if a ring-tailed baboon were con-
verted to Christianity.”
A tale to be perused with interest is that
of a French missionary to the Samoa Islands, who
informs the French Geographical Society that the
remains of De Langle and others of La Porouse’s
companions have been found, together with dates
proving that they perished in December, 1787.
Re Packer, his last days, and his funeral,
lines written of Sheridan may be applied (slightly
paraphrased):—
“ And bailiffs shall seize his last blanket to-day,
Whoso pall shall be borne by swell mashers to-
morrow 1”
An old colonist, up country, died recently,
aged 89. He was very rich at one time, but he had
a mania for dragging members of the British aris-
tocracy out of Sydney boilers and marrying them
to his daughters and relatives. He was poor when
he expired, and—but this, of course, you will guess
—no one attended his funeral.
A Breslau editor has been sent to gaol for
having applied to Pious Billy of Germany the
epithet blast. Well, if Emperor Billy, with all his
brandy and amours—with his several (to use a
Bernhardtian euphuism) “little accidents ” — isn't
1 blast at the age of 90, he ought to be. But then,
you know, to quote the S.M. Herald, “ The Em-
peror William is very religious—he always com-
mences each day reading his Bible.”
It is not generally known that the veteran
Australian favourite, Mr. William Hoskins, was
the histrionic tutor of that most successful of the
actors of the present day, Henry Irving. Mr.
Irving (then known as Thomas Brodribb) was a
London law clerk, and with a fellow Mr.
Lewis (now a London solicitor) used to take lessons
from Mr. Hoskins—who did not until 1870 become
aware that Henry Irving and his old pupil “ Tom
Brodribb” were identical.
Wilkie Collins says “Walter Scott is the
King, Emperor, and God Almighty of Novelists.”
“If,” he writes, “I only look at ‘The Antiquary ’
or ‘ Old Mortality,’ I am crushed by the sense of
my own littleness, and there is no work possible
for me on that day.” Great bosh, this! It is a
question—and we suppose Mr. Collins knows it—
whether the world has ever seen a finer novel than
“No Name;” and, picturesque as are all Scott’s
novels, not one of them can show such a complete
conception as Fosco. Rather bold to say this; but
it is quite true. Collins, that reminds us, Is the
Queen’s favourite living novelist; William Black
next.
Wasn’t Henry Halloran putting his hoof in
it when he wrote—
“ In the tempest’s might careering
Moths are swept to heights above,
So our thoughts of him endearing
Sweep afar on wings of love.”
Not very complimentary to our endearing
thoughts (which are said to sweep afar on the
wings of love) to compare them with moths swept
nolens volens whither the hurricane rages. But the
poetical C.M.Q., like many another “lyric lazar
without fire—soulless crepitant of song,” is
frequently swept by the exigencies of rhyme into
mere balderdash.
Ebenezer Ward objects to Ebenezer Cooke,
the S.A. Audit Commissioner, because their names
are so much alike that (he says) one is frequently
mistaken tor the other, and this has become
mighty unpleasant. Therefore, Ebenezer Ward
throws mud at Ebenezer Cooke, and wants the
second Ebenezer sent out of the Commissioner-
ship to ride about the Far North on a camel. But
Ebenezer Cooke once rode on a camel in the Par
North, being deluded into the act by Tom Play-
ford and p or Willie Gosse. These two heard
Ebenezer implore mercy for ten full minutes be-
fore permitting him to dismount, and then only
allowed it through dread of unsightly damage to
that camel’s furniture. Hence it is that Ebenezer
is known as “ The Camel,” though he doesn’t wear
his hump on his back.
Old Jack Parnell, the pioneer of Jervis
Bay, came out of his shell on the occasion of the
Ministerial visit, and discoursed in favour of t*»e
bay and the country adjoining it. Jack was born
near Plymouth, in the year 1805, and was in the
Billy Ruffian with Lord Exmouth, when that
officer chmmanded the British lieetinthe expedi-
tion to Algiers. Prom the Bellerophon he joined
the Victory, and afterwards was transferred to
the Warspite, 74, on board which vessel he arrived
in Sydney in 1836. He has been a resident of Jervis
Bay for 46 years, and is now the owner of nearly a
thousand acres of land there. He dropped anchor,
he said, in Jervis Bay, on the 9th January, 1836,
with Sir James Brisbane. Commodore Sir James
Brisbane died out here. The Warspite was the first
line of battle ship that arrived in Port Jackson.
Phil. Benjamin, senior sub-editor of the
Adelaide Register, has resigned, and goes to
England next mail to engage in business. Phil.,
who is a very little man, indeed—we, of course,
speak in a physical sense—is a most msthetic per-
sonage. He was at one time a Parliamentary re-
porter on the Argus, and was literally worshipped
by the Jewish and various other maidens of the
Southern capital. He was a china-marrac, and
could always be met outside a pottery-sale, carry-
ing away as many personal choses as the not un-
limited capacity of two arms and hands would
allow. Phil, adores Tennyson’s poetry—from this
fact we leave people to draw their own deductions
—and used, when invited to, deliver a lecture
there anont, which w uld make “The Vagabond ”
burn with envy. The little man, who, within
ordinary newspaper limits, was a very capable sub-
editor, has a claim to the notice of Sydney people
in that he stands to the present N.S.W. Minister of
Justice in the relation of brother-in-law.
Mr. George Hill, one of the most venerable
of Sydney institutions, is dead, at the ripe age of
83. The vigorous old gentleman might have been
a centenarian but for—the tram. For sixty years
George Hill had driven or ridden down the Old
South Head Road at his own pace. He was a cool,
level-headed man, and obstinate, and the approach
of a herd of mad bulls wouldn’t have disconcerted
him. So one day recently, when he was driving
down the tram-track, and the motor-driver yelled
to him: “Get out of the road,” old George, who
hated all your adjective new-fangled abomina-
tions, was slow to obey. He was thrown out of his
trap, and at eighty-two oven a George Hill can’t
stand being trara-carred. So we shall see the
silver-haired, fresh-coloured old man no more.
Mr. Hill was a firm believer in the “ early to bed,
early to rise ” doctrine. He invariably retired for
the night about eight o’clock, unless anything had
happened to annoy him very much during the day.
In that case he sometimes went to bod at six.
Aaron Waxman, of Melbourne — if you
asked him, he’d tell you his name vas Vaxman—is
a most bland and affable Jew. He calls himself a
financial agent,” just as fastidious people call a
stink an 44 unpleasant odour.” He is a J.P., just as
a certain person in Sydney is a C.M.G., and his
Semitic soul yearns for higher honours. Aaron
would bo a member of Parliament, and such like,
for there are few things in the direction of black-
guardly ambition that pen; le of his kidney do not
desire. But Aaron has of late, as everyone knows,
shocked the moral sense of the community by
having, in a most complacent fashion, aided and
abetted that promising young Christian, Petty, to
So to the dogs, by lending him “ monish ” at
tebraic interest. Mr. Waxman's fellow extor-
tioner, Marks Hermann, who so far outraged the
delicate sensibilities of his brethren of the Syna-
gogue that they called upon him to resign a certain
ecclesiastical office, was the other day presented
by them with—ye gods!—a testimonial. The one
action was necessary in order to conciliate Christian
prejudices; the other testified to the entire sym-
pathy of his brethren under the distressing cir-
cumstances of the unpleasant revelations made
concerning his financial operations.
Senior-warder Lovett has at last been pro-
moted to the billet of chief warder of Darlinghurst
Gaol, rendered vacant by the decease of Mr. Burke.
Mr. Lovett is “quite a character.” Ho is ful of
individuality. When we were in gaol for telling
the truth, he often used to come up and enter ain
us with his conversation. It was very pretty. He
was, like Trotty Veck’s weekly paper, “full of in-
formation.” He could converse with equal ease
and elegance on poetry, politics, music, and the
drama. But especially on music. For in the silent
watches of the night he practises the flute, and
often on balmy evenings he soothes the prisoners
to sleep by a sonata by Mendelssohn in K, to a
sewing-machine accompaniment. Mr. Lovett’s ap-
pearance is majestic. With his portly form and
waxed moustaches, he looks the very Porthos of
gaolers. His manner is brusque, but ho is credited
by the prisoners with having a kind heart under-
neath his tunic. He has a sharp eye, and a small
hand; but when he wants a pair of shoes built, he
calls for tenders. By the bye, Mr. Lovett is now
4 Under Gaoler,” and *Mr. Head “Governor of
Darlinghurst Gaol.” We don’t know why. But it
is so. And, by the way, Mr. Lovett has the longest
memory in New Soutn Wales.
The Agonaut says that Dickens possessed
the power that Milner Stephen assumes to himself
of healing by the laying on of hands. It is curious,
if so, that nothing is said about it in Forster’s
Life. We can’t imagine that the great novelist
ever went about blowing through red flannel and
humping a can of magnetised water. Milner, by
the way, is still in New Zealand. Poor old boy I
We shall never forget the hilarious business his
seances over the coaohbuilder’s were. The visages
presented a strange contrast. The beautiful
young lady who always accompanied Milner, and
in whose face was stamped a complete and absolute
belief that was singularly touching. Then the
little Jew from Paddy’s Market, who minded the
door and poured out the magnetised water. And
the real cripples who came there to be made whole,
and the sham cripples who came whole to take a
rise out of Milner. Then there was the man with
the rheumatics, whose passage had been paid from
Palestine or somewhere by 44 a charitable lady;”
and the poor widder woman with a wen as big as a
pumpkin, wh© seemed surprised when Milner blew
on it that he didn’t blow it away. What memories!
What a merry mockery the whole thing was ; what
a surprising show I By Milner: 44 Are you cured?”
4 Yes.” By a sceptic near the door: 44 Are you
cured?” Sotto voce: 44 No.” 44 Then what the .”
** T didn’t like to offend the young lady.”
Bahl”
Exactly thirty years ago Jenny Lind re-
tired from the stage, in the zenith of her fame. She
is Madame Goldschmidt now, 68 years old, and lives
in a big house in South Kensington. Her husband,
Otto, is a bald-headed little man, composer and
conductor, and she teaches in the Royal C dlege of
Music, London. Just a few words now about the
woman who set the world raving. A lady who
lately visited her says: 44 From the crown of her
wigged head to the sole of her shoe, there is not
one line of grace or beauty. Her face is hard, form
angular, eyes dull and passionless, hands large and
ill-shaped, and the stiff irregularity of her limbs
could not be hid by her skirts. It must have been
wild, unrestricted imagination that led a writer to
call her beautiful. I will not put Jenny Lind be-
fore you in any exaggerated picture: she is ugly.
But her voice is gentle and soft and sweet, and
when she spoke or sang, her face lighted up with
an animation that made you forget its harshness.”
Jenny talked of her childhood, how she appeared
in public when nine years old, lost her voice at
twelve, and waited four weary years for it, study-
ing all the time, until bit by bit it came back, and,
says she, 44 1 found my upper notes had all returned,
as clear and pure as I could wish. You know, I
was always ray own chief admirer.” She also said,
44 1 am told that, when a child, my singing brought
tears to the eyes of listeners. I do not remember
it. But, since, I have seen my audiences sob many
times. I have stood on the stage, and hoard them
cry.” Madame Goldschmidt has a son in the army.
She has two daughters, both married. Her voice,
though worn and less powerful, is still true; but
she only uses it to gratify a few near friends, or
at command of the Queen.
J. C. Jeafferson’s 44 Real Lord Byron” is
full of novel information that throws new life on
the most critical periods of the poet’s light. Jeaffer-
son shows him generous, affectionate, and full of
tenderness, yet selfish and regardless of truth
(especially in the direction of charging himself
with vees of which ho was innocent.) Ho proves
that so far from Byron having married Miss Mil-
banke for money, he was the poorer by the
marriage, since the settlement he made upon her
seriously crippled his means. Lady Byron is
painted as a woman of some ability, but with a
mind essentially narrow and full of prejudices
inherited from a stupid family. The circumstances
(now told by Jeafferson for the first time)
which rendered the breach irreparable between
Byron and his wife are these: Jane Cler-
mont or Clairmont, the daughter of Godwin’s
second wife, better known as Claire to students
of Shelley’s life, applied to Byron for employ-
ment as an actress at Drury Lane. She
was a handsome, lively girl, and the poet con-
ceived a passion for her and she for him. When
the liaison commenced is not clear—probably in
the beginning of February, 1816, though Lady
Byron seems to have been told • hat it had begun
before she left her husband. At any rate, Lady
Byron first knew of it after her mother’s interview
with Dr. Lushington, and it was only on hearing
of it from Lady Byron, years afterwards, that
Lushington declared a reconcilia 1 ion impossible.
Infatuated by his new passion, and furious at his
wife’s repudiation or him, Byron proceeded
to outrage her feelings still further. While,
after publishing 44 Fare Thee Well,” he
proceeded by Brussels and the Rhine
towards Switzerland, Jane Clermont went
with Shelley and Mary Godwin to Geneva. Shel-
ley’s biographers have supposed the meeting at
the Hotel Sdcheron to have been accidental, but
everyone who studiesJMr. Jeaflerson’s volumes will
be convinced that it had been planned in England.
With reference to Lady Byron’s charge against
Byron of Incest with his sister, Mrs. Leigh, Jeaffer-
son treats it as an infamous lie.
When first we saw the recently-deceased
44 General” Tom Thumb we had on a little blue me-
rino frock and demure drawers with frilled edges.
He was pretty when he was young; he grew fat and
ugly when older. His name was Charles B.
Stratton, and he made a lot of money at one time,
but his entrepreneurs used to have it all out of
him at poker. Both he and Commodore Nutt were
always drunk when not showing; and when they
giew more than usually outrageous, they used to
be thumped by Minnie Warren. Of late years,
Tom Thumb declined in the social scale. It was
only last year that we were shocked at hearing he
was keeping a giddy saloon in St. Louis. If he
were a bigger man, this would, we reckon, militate
against his chances of soaring to heaven; but, as
he was really such a very little fellow, we dare say
that St. Peter will let him slip in. We have, un-
fortunately, no influence with the Keeper of the
Keys, or we would put in a good word for the little
roan. , erhaps, however. Pastor Allen, Captain
Sutherland, and a few more holy people who are,
°£ C0 , u *f 0 ’ OQ the free list, will say something nice
about him. And, talking of Tom Thumb, reminds
us that once at Birmingham Commodore Nutt got
terribly smitten with Emma Chambers—a smaller
actress even than Jennie Lee—while To n became
terribly mashed on a full-sized flyurante. Things
got so serious that, though announced to show at
Birmingham, the male members of the company
refused to budge. After an angry colloquy, their
nmnager proposed to give in, and invited the love-
sick secessionists to dinner. At the banquet the
dwarts drank deeply, as was their wont, and their
coffee being hocussed, they found themselves,
when they awoke, in their travelling cots at the
Birmingham hotel. Dear, dear ! Tom Thumb
gone; the Siamese twins dead ; Chang in obscu-
the old familiar monstrosities vanishing,
We have, though, much to be thankful for. On
these shores is a monstrosity who is permanently
established. Can you guess the “disinterested
vessel wo allude to ? But, on second thoughts,
you needn t try. You might guess the upright
legislator, for instance, who can do his little fat
wether and bag of flour dally. And that would be
wrong II
The Parramatta Febgy has discovered
J*ft ft,, maQ near h ‘8 office sells milk at 3d a pint.
*•1? j thewealth, and innocence, versus," cries John,
headaches, horrors, and empty pockets.” J. F’s.
circulation must be going up, or the man must
« ve J renewed t h® sewing-machine ad., if he can
afford to let his constituents know that ho is in
such a bad way as all this. It was not until we saw
°ur way to affluence that we loft off wearing
golden boots and silver underclothing. Now, so
long as we get the love of the people and our little
e *£ht meals a day we don’t care what they think of
us. We have given up style; and the button that
is missing from the back of o r coat proclaims our
prosperity. We have known, though, lots of swell
Journalists in our time. Dalziel, for instance, who
married Dickie Lingard, was a silk sock and
patent-leather scribe. Poor Marcus Clarke was a
dandy, too, in his way. Who doesn t remember those
gorgeous white flannel suits, which were the ad-
miration of Melbourne ? The S. M. Herald boys
are all neat about the collars and cuffs, and they
have a dandified way of carrying their babies that
is very imposing. There is a lady (the smart-
woman of them all) who goes to
the theatre on first nights in a light blue
toque, a black silk gown, and a newly-var-
nished reticule. Then there was Mortimer of the
London riGABO, who used to wear sapphire rings
the fore-fingers of each hand, and diamonds on
the other four. Arthur a’Beckott, let us toll you,
now dresses after the style of the haute noblesse.,
and Anglen Dowty, the O.P.Q. Philander Smltf,
has never been seen out of a long frock-coat,
adorned with a sprig of jasmine. Tom Price, our
97f n . Prince of Wales.” invariably looks lovely,
iiis beard is so trim that whenever we see him, wo
always thirst to inquire of him the name of the
m a i^ fr 9. ,n ho * n he purchased his lawn-mower.
Teddy Oxenford (to go farther afield and touch on
less distinguished persons!), the “Melancholy
Jaques who writes rather trim verses in London
society, affects a “ horsey” get-up—tight-button-
mg coats, and emaciated bell-bottomed trousers.
Lots of these could afford, as we do, to neglect
their personal appearance. But they don’t, some-
how. Keeping themselves clean appears to be a
disease with them all. Ludicrous, this. Hold on,
P 11 we get even richer than we are. Then we’ll go
to the theatre in a corn-sack, and make notes on a
borrowed paper collar. There is no moral em-
bodied in this par. Or, if there is, we can’t see
any.
Let us touch off this little history with a
laughing pen. This is perhaps rather an audacious
figure of speech, but then wo are not timid—except
when She brings her female friends around to
drink tea and sympathise with her. And here we
may remark, to show the public what sacrifices we
have to make for them, that when we want to
write a paragraph like this, with just a sufficient
seasoning ot scandal in it to make it piquant, we
have to sneak out and write it on the beach. If
She discovered us, the country would know all
about it long before the paper came out. So we
have to be cautious, not to say clandestine, in deal-
ing with delicate subjects of this sort. To come to
the point, however. She was pretty, but rather
pale. She wore crimped hair, which, at latest dates,
was a dreary smoke-colour. Her eyes were green-
ish grey ; and her lips, when she had completed her
toilette, would have put a scarlet-runner to shame.
And besides this, she had a sunny, child-like smile,
and a tittery, trifling kind of laugh, that would
nave made you, if you had seen her, swear that
she was the most ingenuous creature you had ever
met. This was what we thought, anyhow, and we
fancied the female heart had no mysteries for
us. Well, this young lady’s appetisant figure
and sage-green dresses used to be the admira-
tion of all Sydney. We have said she wore sage-
green, which perhaps was a pleasant though
occult way of symbolising that though she looked
green she was in reality sage. Well, she had a
lover; two lovers, in fact. But she loved one of
them several thousand pounds better than the
other. Yet the dear, simple-hearted girl kept both
beaux on her String. This is always the way with
a loving woman. She likes to make all her ad-
mirers happy. Well, the one that she loved several
thousand pounds the least, came down from Bris-
bane a short time ago—ostensibly as the agent of a
certain gay and festive Brisbane medico—to bring
her back with him. In the meantime, she had ar-
ranged with her richer lover to go with him to
Europe. Not caring to hurt the feelings of her
Brisbane beau, she told him nothing ol this, but
got him to give her fifty pounds as a mark of his
esteem and confidence. Next day the father and
friends of the young man who was going to i.ur-
ope assembled in the saloon to wish him bon voynye
in champagne. They were Justly proud of him for
his steadiness of conduct and freedom from the
usual follies of youth. When the steamer got near
the heads, the merry young lady of whom we have
the pleasure of writing, came out of her cabin,
where she had been shut up while the leave-taking
was going on. The well-conducted young gentle-
man, who never committed any folly, had taken
her passage in an assumed name. And so they .are
now steaming gaily along on their way to Europe,
while the Brisbane beau is still wondering where
she has gone. When he finds out, he will be mad
for a vhiie, but when he thinks coolly over the
matter he can hardly help being comforted by the
reflection that money goes so much farther in
Europe than it does here. Anyhow, his money has
gone a good deal further than ho ever expected it
would. Now, isn’t this a nice little story ? And
what’s better, it’s true.
BLANCHE STAMMERS.
When in that Manoir of Kersalnt a bride,
The cruel years o ercome, dear Mapguerite,
Thy mimic life was triumph; and the Tide
Turned at thy feet.
When as the patient Esther thy fine art
Changed into empty brag the pride of Caste,
The crowd saw but thyself within the part
From first to last.
When, too, thy charm of dainty gentilesse
Had drawn the libertine to vilest ends,
And thou, chaste mother, spurn’dst his hot caress,
All were thy Friends.
We watched thee, frailest of the Withered Leaves,
Wilt into stone by stern Cynisca bann’d;
And heard thy long-drawn sob as Life’s fair sheaves
Fell from thy hand.
Pale Galatea, saintliest Marguerite,
Bright laughing Lady, loving Esther—gleans
Yet Anguish aught of thee now that thy feet
Tread other scenes ?
Who art thou in the cast ? Where is the stage ?
Who rings the curtain up ? Have they begun ?
What, not a line ? Then write across the page
“ The Play in done.”
GODFREY EGREMONT.
We read that old Dick Ocock, “ father of
Victorian attorneys,” died at Ballan, the other day,
aged 80. He commenced business in Melbourne in
1839. According to this, then, the devil is at last
dead....Sydney Taiwhanga, the Maori gentleman
who recently passed through Sydney, en route
from England, which ho visited as a kind of ambas-
sador, doesn’t bear a reputation that would enable
him to take holy orders. He is not a man of any
rank. He was educated by Bishop Selwyn, and
was subsequently appointed by the Government a
licensed surveyor; his appointment w»s revoked
In consequence of malpractices. Next, he was ap-
pointed master of a Native school; neglected work,
absent from school and settlement; • btained
money not due by sending in grossly false returns.
Finally, had a trip to England and back, and is now
extending his fingers from the tip of his nose at
the society for the protection of aborigines Mr.
M. Egan, the well-known Melbourne architect,
who has been so successful in professional compe-
titions, will shortly marry an Adelaide lady, with a
very substantial dowry—something like half a
century in thousands. ..Mr. J. J. Clark, who has
for about two years successfully practised his pro
fassion in Sydney, has been appointed Colonial
Architect of Queensland. Mr. Clark designed that
beautiful building, the Melbourne Treasury.. Sir
Henry Parkes’ brother has died in England, aged
77— Professor Denton accompanied Captain
Armlt, the Aliens correspondent, to New Guinea.
... .Trlckett at Kiaru.i called Dr. Lang that “ keen-
witted old divine.” Keen-witted was John Dun-
more Lang. Eke a minister was he; eke a D.D.;
but devil a bit of a divine, giving that word its
true signification. “Keen-witted old politician”
would have been more the ticket, dear Trickett...
The death of a Pakeha-Maori-Captain William
Sherburd—is sported from New Zealand. The
episode of most interest in his life appears to have
been his marriage—or, rather, the reason assigned
for it. He took a Maori wife—for security. Will
no one explain ?... .The Right Reverend Father in
God, G. W. Kennlon, makes many mild Jokes.
At a college breaking-up the other day, he
came across a small prize-taker whoso name
denoted his own episcopal office, and incon-
tinently commanded, “Call up the Bishop!”....
John Davis, P.M. of Bega, should apply for
Letters Patent, authorising him to change his
name. He might, by an excusable error, bo taken
for John I lavles, M.P. About 35 years ago, Henry
Jerrold, brother of the great wit, was a type-
grubber in a Melbourne printing office Pat.
Perkins said, during the Transcontinental debate,
The Opposition think they have crossed the river
Styx, and are Just getting into the Promised Land.”
As Pat. is Minister for Lands, ho ought to know
something about the Promised Land; still we
never knew before that the Promised Land lay be-
yond the Styx. Now that Pat. is about to resign
his Promised Land, hadn’t he better look out for a
billet on the Styx. Why not oust old Charon?
Perhaps, after all, the land that Perkins has pro-
mised himself is beyond the Styx.
* + ♦
Bismarck is not a good orator. He coughs,
stammers, and stops for the right words, and often
becomes involved in sentences which seem almost
interminable. When he writes his style is idio-
matic and graceful Many attempts were made
by London newspapers to get John Brown to con-
tribute to the columns of fashion: gossip. But,
though he had every facility for the making of
beautiful paragraphs, it wasn’t in his line....Syd-
ney Smith said his idea of Heaven was eating pdtc
de fni gras to the sound of trumpets. Lord Bea-
consfleld s was (according to Ronald Gower) one of
those long midsummer da\ s, when one dines at
nine o’clock....Martin Tupper to be testimonial-
ised. The movement Indicates a sort of chance for
Sladon.... Two of the swellest clubs in Now York,
lately black-balled Jay Gould, the millionaire. It
c imo to the members' ears that he had brains, and
didn’t wear a stick-up collar. They at once de-
clared him ineligible. Could we fit this on to any-
one in Sydney instead ? “ It’s true that Jay was
black-balled |by two clubs—both probably includ-
ing Gebhardt. —A. M. Sullivan was present,
recently, at a meeting of the Oxford Union Debat-
ing Society and received an ovation. Suggestive
that Oxford undergrads should cheer to the echo
an Irishman pleading for Justice for Ireland!. .,
Dr. O’Brien, of Rockloy, formerly surgeon at
Norfolk Island and at Cockatoo, died last week,
aged 78. In the old penal days he was regarded as
a kind-hearted Tartar. We’d like to read his diary.
— Whittier, the American poet, fearful lost some
Froude or other might publish his “Remin-
iscences,” has put his 50 years’ private correspond-
ence into the lire.


Tjl URNITURE SHOW ROOMS,
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring: streets, Sydney.
TTALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS, and
H CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
t IBRABY FURNITORE, CENTRE and SIDE
JL TABLES. BOOKCASES SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS. Bradley, Now-
ton, and Lamb, Furniture Importers, Spring and
O’Connell streets, Sydney. ___ _____
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, in EXQUISITE
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
Inspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT, Just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
"VTOVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
i>j SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
4 FTERNOON TEA TABLES, elegant and inex-
iV. pensive. BRADLEY, NEWTON, i
O’Connell-streot.
, and LAMB,
MARRLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
ILLIARD TABLES, full size, with appurten-
ances : also smaller Convertible Tables, 7 and
8 feet —may be used as dining tables. Now on view.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, Importers, Spring
and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
BEDSTEADS, all Sizes, at lowest prices. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Importers,
O’Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY,
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
HEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 20s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, framSSs; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands. from 10s 6d; Tables, from 7s 6d: Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 30s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 35s; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
85s.
BRADLEY,:
NEWTON,
and LAMB,
SYDNEY.
/"hVERMANTBL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashlon-
Sg able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 85a. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
URNITURE.—The Largest Stock In the
Colony. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell-street.
TTh RAWING-ROOM CABINETS—Early English,
I 9 Anglo-Japanese, and Chippendale designs.
Just opened. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
streets. ,
Dining-room furniture. —Magnificent
Suites in Walnut, Oak, and Mahogany. Side-
boards, Dinner Waggons, &e., to match. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O’Connell streets.
XTIRAMEWORK for DRAWING and DINING
F ROOM FURNITURE, Handsome and Massive,
m Oak, Walnut and Mahogany. The VERY BEST
REAL MOROCCO SKINS, and Materials for up-
holstery. Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB.
ED8TEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
B
BDDING.—All descriptions at lowest rates.
, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
B BRADLEY
nell-street.
W
ASHSTANDS. with marble, 35s.each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS and Verandah Chairs.—Brad-
ley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
ENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment Just opened; many quite new,
designs. ,
CCA8IONAL CHAIRS in VERY GREAT
Variety, Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c., Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c., Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
ICE CHESTS, all sizes, very superior make. Ex-
amine before purchasing. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
RON SAFES, various sizes. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
STEINWAY NEW YORK PIANOS, the FINEST
in the world. A SHIPMENT Just landed.
OO GUINEA PIANO. WARRANTED sound
and durable, in solid walnut case; specially
adapted for beginners or schools.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Q PIANO, brilliant toned, full com-
•">11 pass, all the latest improvements, in hand-
some walnut ease ; WARRANTED SOUND and
DURABLE ; BEST VALUE in the trade.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
T IP P’S CELEBRATED PIANOS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB
have received
another LARGE SHIPMENT
of
R. LIPP and SONS’ celebrated PIANOFORTES
direct from the Makers, comprising TALL
GRANDS, LITTLE UPRIGHT GRANDS, SA-
LOON GRANDS, VERY HANDSOME and of the
HIGHEST CLASS FINISH,
in
WALNUT and BLACK GOLD.
tSff- WE HAVE NOW THE LARGEST STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA OP
LIPP’S PIANOS
TO SELECT FROM.
WE INVITE INSPECTION.
FOR PRIVATE SALE AT EXTREMELY LOW
PRICES.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Pianoforte Importers,
O’Connell and Spring street*.
SOCIAL.
In the matter of perception, man is a mole.
We were in love with a lady, bright-haired and
clear-complexioned as golden Gwendolen. This
was about a month ago. And we wrote verses to
her, wherein we compared her to Gudrun with the
gold locks, and the Venus Anadyomeue, and a lot
of other poetical personages. We don’t think she
understood all these allusions; and we suspect she
used to show the verses to some of her other ad-
mirers, to get their opinion upon them. We got
this suspicion by meeting two of them one day
when we were going out to pay her a visit. They
had been there before us; and as we passed them
they looked at us with a sort of pitying expression,
then at each other, and then tapped their foreheads
and gave vent to an exaggerated sigh that sounded
like the lowing of a cow. We were mad; but wo
passed on, pretending to be in a brown study,
when we arrived at the house, wo saw her. But
what a change! She that had been as fair as a
queen of hearts was now black as a queen of
spades. Wo were naralysed for the moment. Then
wo recollected that when wo had visited her about
a week before we had found her reading tte fashion
column of a contemporary, and that we had then
noticed a paragraph therein stating that the blonde
style of beauty had gone out of fashion, and
given place to the brunette. “ Dark hair, dark
blue eyes, not a particle of colour, and
lips as red as the cherry; ” that was how
the specification of the new style road, if
we remember rightly. She had carried it out
almost to the letter. Her hair, that was once the
colour of the sun rays, was now of the hue ol ink;
her face was white as a sheet, and her lips as red as
rod flannel. But she had not been able to change
the colour of her eyes. They wore still grey, but
the alteration of her complexion had made thorn
look like the eyes of a deceased llsh. The only ad-
jective wo could find to describe their appearance
was “oystery.” We were disillusionised for ever.
As wo passed pensively out of the house and down
the garden-walk, we noticed half-a-dozen halt-
empty pots of rouge and yellow ochre lying in a
corner. And only a day or two age a young lady
friend of hers informed us that the hair of our
inamorata used to be reddish-auburn before it was
that gold-colour we had immortalised in every
form of metre. It was a terrible sho9k. To think
wo had been so long writing rhapsodies to a pot of
paint! We would give a good deal now to know
what the colour of her hair was originally, or if it
had any colour at all. We have a gloomy suspicion
that it was carrotty. Or perhaps she was bald
from her birth, and got a new lot of hair every
time the fashion changed. Anyhow, we can now
dispose of a cheap lot of love verses to a blonde.
Taken singly, wo will sell them at half-a-crown a
lyric; taken altogether, wo will knock them down
at a reduction of threepence each on this rate.
* * *
Some short time ago a lady in a sister
colony, who was about to be married, determined
on introducing a novelty into the wedding cere-
monial. She dispensed with bridesmaids, but in-
stead of them had six rejected suitors to wait upon
her. How she managed to get them to advertise
their ill-fortune in this fashion is a mystery. But
what can’t the dears make us do, when they set
their little minds upon it? The bridegroom was
flattered by the idea, and in order to carry it put
completely, he hunted up six girls, whom he had
jilted, to wait upon him. They waited upon him—
with writs for breach of promise.
* * *
We read:—“ The * talking ’ quadrille is the
latest. While dancing, an amusing dialogue should
be kept up between the dancers, in harmony with
the figures.” No doubt the new style ot quadrille
is a capital one. But who’s going to provide the
new style of young men who will keep up the
amusing dialogue V”
• • •
Ella asks us: “ If I get in a tram, and
make the horrid discovery that money, tickets,
and all are in the purse on the piano in the parlour
at Bur wood, and a polite and handsome young
man sitting opposite offers to satisfy the claim of
the inexorable conductor, would I be justified m
accepting his offer ?” At the moment we got your
scented note, Ella, we were very busy over a
knotty problem in casuistry which was submitted
to us by Mr. David Walker., An inquiring member
of the Young Men’s Christian Association, it seems,
asked him: s If, by nodding my head, I could in-
herit a very large fortune, but at the same time
indirectly cause the death of a very remote China-
man, would I be justified m nodding ( As this
was rather too tough for David, he brought it
round to us. We are working at it now; and the
instant wo get through with David s conundrum,
Ella, you shall have our attention.
• • •
For the purpose of facilitating happy mar-
riages in England and the colonies a “high-class
weekly journal ” has been started in London. It is
unite time this matter was taken seriously in hand.
There is no difficulty in compassing an ordinary
marriage Any pair of imbeciles of different sexes
can do that. But it is quite another thing to seek
and find a happy one. Every dodge, every mortal
reef-p* from half-braining your intended with a
waddv to covering her with precious stones, has
been tried; and we are just as much in the dark
now as to the chances ot happiness in wedlock as
we aro regarding David Buchanans object in
endeavouring to defend religious outposts that
have been abandoned by some ot the most learned
land orthodox) thinkers in Europe. Yes, we want;
a “high-class” paper to enable us to wed.
m • •
The “ Masher ” has been analysed. Result:
—“Bicarbonate of cheek, '.WO’SIO; essence ot gall,
2-500- nitrate of stare, 2'500; tincture of conceit,
H'500- oxalate of cuffs, '270; protoxide of collar,
•200;’acetate of toothpick shoes. -2tt,; sulphide ot
smirk -500; chloride of coat-tail, -003; cyauidc ot
brum (doubtful), -001-total 1000.”
• • •
La t Thursday, Prof. West gave a Cinder-
ella Party in Tattcrsall’s new buildings. Some 1:10
were present, and about 20 dances were done, in-
cluding the pretty French cotillons. Short dances
and lively was one rule ot the night, no wall-
flowers was another; and good music and partners
made it easy to skim the floor. The room is a largo
handsome one. nearly souare with a pointed roof,
high enough to be cool and low enough to look
cosv And the way the Professor has got his room
decorated, shows him to be one of the most esthe-
tic of men—really esthetic, wo mean. There are
no iinuudent sunflowers, no sick lilies, no angular
Ariadues: but there are pleasant landscape scenes
and panel pictures, droopy palmleayes, soft lace
curtains, and rounded forms of ideal beauty in the
white statuary disposed around. Artificial flowers
are suspended in rustic receptacles which dangle
from the roof, and act as a foil to the glare from
the centre-lights. This breaking the monotonous
glare of the gas is one cf the standing difficulties
of ballroom arrangement. Within this room, the
Professor sedulously cultivates grace among his
pupils. Most of those present wore the orthodox
evening dress, and the ladles were as gay as an
aviary.
• • •
St. Andrew’s Cathedral was the scene of
an interesting and pretty wedding on the 18th in-
stant. The bridegroom was Mr. Edwin John
Comrains, surveyor, from Cooma; and as ho had
become very anxious to liquidate the future mil-
liners’ bills of Miss Florence M. P. Baylis, fifth
daughter of Mrs. T. H. Bolger, of Redfern, Dean
Cowper arranged for him to do so. The young
bride was becomingly calm, and particularly
pretty, in her rich white molriS and satin trimmed
with lace and white pompon bobs, and was assisted
by seven maids—Misses Emsie Baylis, Lily Baylis,
Agnes Williamson, in pale pink satin and white
lace—Misses Minnie Strachan, Margaretta Davies,
and Connie Baylis. in pale blue satin and white
lace, all wearing lily or the valley wreaths and
long veils; and a dot, little Miss Daisy Serisier, in
blue and pink daisies, oavaliered by Master Bertie
Baylis, as a Sailor Boy. The bridegroom was sup-
ported in his happiness by Mr. W. Reilly as best
man, and by five other young men nearly as good;
and, as he looked at his captivating bride, no
doubt he considered her the best selection he
ever surveyed. A large attendance was present,
the middle of the Cathedral being filled
with palpitating sightseers, chiefly ladies. Among
them wore: Mrs. Bolger, in a handsome sage green
moird and ottoman brochfS, trimmed with very deep
honiton lace; Mrs. Goodwin, bride’s sister, in olive
green surah and satin; Mrs. Boyd, ditto, in black
satin and brocade ; Mrs. John Davies, in a fine
brown silk, and satin brocade; Mrs. R. M'Coy, olive
Sreen satin; Miss M’Coy, in a pretty claret; Mrs.
irock, sen., in a beautiful figured pompadour ;
Mrs. G. Brock, in a robe of sage green brocade ;
Mrs. W. Payten, in black; Mrs. John Williamson,
in ruby velvet and fine honiton lace; Mrs. Berteaux
from Dubbo, in a rich brown brocade and satin, &c.
Wedding breakfast took place at Warreston House,
when Mr. John Davies proposed the health of the
bride and bridegroom; other happy speeches fol-
lowed, and the joyful pair then retired by tram to
Mossvale. In the evening:, Mr. and Mrs. Bolger
grave a party to some eighty family friends. The
suitable decorations were much admired, and the
display of flowers was very lavish. As the floor,
as well as the music provided by Mr. Hall (accom-
panied by violinist), was perfect, and a cheery
supper-table presented a standing invitation to
visitors, enjoyment was a natural consequence.
The hostess wore a very rich golden fawn silk and
broch<5, with train and floral wreath, and her three
daughters were tireless in making everybody social,
wall-flowers being unknown. Pale blue and pink
were almost universal, but a pure white was charm-
ing; a peacock plush bodice and cream nun’s veil-
ing skirt, one of the prettiest; and a prawn satin,
with the skirt in three box-pleated flounces edged
with white lace, was quite delightful. “ Roger de
Coverley ” concluded the pleasure, at 3a.m.
• •
At the third Burwood Private Assembly
Ball of the season, the committee were very suc-
cessful in their arrangements, and left npth-
ing undone that would contribute to enjoy-
ment. The decorations were in gay unison with
the pretty dresses of the demoiselles, and the floor,
which is not the best, had been well prepared.
Among the many fair devotees to Terpsichore who
lent their charms to the occasion were a dark
young lady from Woollahra in tasteful black lace;
a graceful girl from North Shore, in blue satin and
cream; and a captain's daughter, as sprightly as
usual, who always has a full share of partners. A
pretty, spirkling little matron, from Concord,
looked her best in rich blue silk and brocW; a tall
brunette graced a dress of sombre hue. “ Barn-
staple” was represented, and “ Wardie’s” daughter
looked sweet simplicity in white and cardinal. A
favourite young guest was from Croydon, in
cream satin and broch6; and a tall and charming
visitant from Mudgee wore pale blue silk and
Spanish lace. A white dress of peculiar make and
texture, with a mermaid look, bedecked with
' imaginary seaweed, drew a good deal of attention.
Dancing was not of uniform excellence, perhaps,
but all enjoyed it, certainly; and it was kept up
until the stroke of midnight, when the line guests
returned by train, and the locals wended home.
Mrs. J. Baumann, of William-street, gave
an excellent party on the 18th, to commemorate a
dual birthday, viz., that of son and daughter,
and about half a hundred guests met to celebrate
that unusual domestic coincidence. Dancing,
supper, and singing were the diversions, and
amongst the pretty dressers were a George-street
married lady in slate satin and cashmere, a young
lady of the house in crushed strawberry, a lady in
cream satin who “wore a wreath of roses,” and
the brunette belle in black silk and cream brochd.
• • •
About 70 guests were present at Mrs. F.
Wyatt’s party at Pomona, last week, to cele-
brate Miss Nina's 7th birthday. That small belle
was dressed as the Turkish Princess Zoebedie, and
Masters Louis and Sep Wyatt were Aladdin and
Jack Tar, respectively. One of the nicest fancy
dresses was a red gold and black worn by a young
Woollahra married lady, in exact imitation of the
Spanish dress in the last act of “ Olivette.” From
Creedmoor were two sisters, one as Sunrise, in
ruby brocaded velvet and pale pink satin, a rising
sun in her hair, and several |“ rising sons ” in her
train, also clouds of tulle down the back; the other
in a short dress of white, with swansdown pom-
pons, which left traces of snow, as light as her
dainty feet. Mi s. Wyatt was Lady Teazle, in petti-
coat of ruby velvet beaded, bodice and skirt of
black, with aesthetic poppies, and white wig. A
Highland Lassie, Huntress, Night, Shepherdess,
and a namesake of the hostess as a pretty Game-
keeper’s Daughter, were there. A Paddington
lady was pretty in white and gold, headdress of
S earls, as Lady Jane Grey: and a young lady from
othele, as a Native Flower Girl, had a cream
dross very cleverly adorned with natural wild
flowers and ferns, and fern wreath In the hair.
Several gentlemen also wore fancy costumes. The
rooms were enlivened with various ornate devices,
festoons of leaves, etc., and the verandahs with
lanterns. Appetite was daintily catered for, and
Mrs. Bentley’s playing was thoroughly satisfactory
to the dancers.
< ■
Last Saturday, Mr. and Mrs. Henry Bad-
gery, of Ashfleld, entertained between sixty and
seventy children, who assembled on the grounds
about three o’clock, and played at various games
till tea was announced, then to the drawing-room,
already prepared for dancing. Good music was
provided, and every child joined in lancers, quad-
rilles, Scotch polka, and waltzes till nine, when
Sir Roger finished them, and made room for the
big children, who danced till twelve, principally
waltzes. Mr. Garling kindly acted as M.C. The
little folks all in full evening dress.
* * * *
The best dressed lady in Melbourne is the
wife of a barrister, and lives at South Yarra. Her
toilet is always perfect to the very tips of her
lingers, and everything she wears seems to have
been fashioned by an artist to suit her dainty
figure. She is always very intent upon something,
too, and so appears to be utterly unconscious,
and, therefore, charming. What an artist she
must be to seem to be interested in something
special every time one sees her!... A ball was
given by Miss Baker in the School of Arts, Dun-
gog, on the loth July, when 50 dancers had a good
time, music by Italians, and dresses gay and suit-
able...The “Our Boys” performance and party
at Parramatta netted the Alfred Cricket Club £30,
which is good; and the grateful young gentlemen
sent the lady performers hand-painted cards of
thanks At a drawing room party the other
night, Miss Agonisa, after considerable coaxing,
sat down and played the piece she had been bang-
ing into for four weeks. Then she said, in her art-
less way: “Now. you’d hardly believe, if I told
you, that’s the first time I ever played that?
And a heartless wretch replied: ‘Oh, yes, we
would. We thought it was the first time you had
seen it.” She hated him—oh! how she hated him.
Lots more sports ahead, and the Association
Ground will again be gay. University Athletic
Club on 1st August; Sydney Bicycle on the 4th;
St, Kilda College on the 8th....There wore many
balls in the country on the 13th July. Ladles gave
one to bachelors at Parkes. Another big one, pre-
ceded by a concert, was at Cootamundra; and a
banquet and ball took place in Bray’s Assembly
Rooms, Forbes The opening of Brewamna
Hospital is to be marked by a ball on the 30th July.
For continuation of Social, see next page.


THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
smoko a decent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
with a moderate price.
THE LION TOBACCO SMOKES COOL.
THE LION TOBACCO SMOKES COOL.
THE LION TOBACCO SMOKES COOL,
Life appeal's in roseate tints to such gentlemen as
have the fine discriminating taste and Judgment to
smoke the LION TOBACCO, which is without
question the best quality for the price: it is within
reach of all.
THE LION RED TAG TOBACCO HAS AROMA.
THE LION RED TAG TOBACCO HAS AROMA.
THE LION RED TAG TOBACCO HAS AROMA,
Our present age has brought forth many great
discoveries for the use and enjoyment of mankind,
and foremost amongst these is the NEW LION
TOBACCO : it is simply a magnificent Tobacco at
a very cheap price, and in consequence meets
everywhere with the success it so richly deserves.
It is obtainable at all storekeepers and tobacco-
nists.
THE LION RED TAG TOBACCO IS DELICIOUS.
THE LION RED T A.G TOBACCO IS DELICIOUS.
THE LION RED TAG TOBACCO IS DELICIOUS.
Those of our business friends who have not got
the LION TOBACCO in stock yet, will greatly
oblige by sending us their orders at once, which
will have our best attention, and be forwarded
without delay,
HEYDE, TODMAN & CO., YORK-ST., SYDNEY.
HEYDE, TODMAN & 0O„ YORK-ST., SYDNEY.
HEYDE, TODMAN & CO., YORK-ST., SYDNEY.
HEYDE, TODMAN & CO., YORK-ST., SYDNEY.
Trickery is often practised by ordinary manu-
turers of Tobacco, but the LION BRAND is com-
posed of pure and fragrant leaf, and each plug is
stamped with a Red Tag, bearing a rampant lion,
and is registered against imitation under Act of
Parliament.
Smoke the LION TOBACCO, it is excellent.
Smoke the LION TOBACCO, it is excellent.
Smoke the LION TOBACCO, it is excellent.
The NEW LION TOBACCO is the great success
of the day, for age does not deaden nor custom
change the infinite enjoyment derived by some
lovers of the pipe in smoking the LION TOBACCO.
MERONS
Smoke the LION TOBACCO, it is superb.
Smoke the LION TOBACCO, it is superb.
Smoke the LION TOBACCO, ir is superb.
Quiet your nerves, improve your appetite, and
strengthen your constitution by smoking this
favourite Tobacco, for fragrant odour and selected
leaf are the chief essentials of the LION TO BACCO.
In the manufacture of this Brand, the leaf goes
through a special process that removes all rank-
ness while preserving the virtue of the leaf. For
pipe smoking there is no Tobacco lasting longer
and burning cooler than this favourite brand of
the people.
Smoke the LION TOBACCO, it is famous.
Smoke the LION TOBACCO, it is famous.
Smoke the LION TOBACCO, it is famous.
The LION TOBACCO is just the thing the world
has been waiting for since Sir Walter Raleigh
heralded the virtues of Tobacco. Try it, and add
your confirmation to the judgment of everybody
who has tried it; and if they only had it in old
Ireland it would put the country right.
A delightful smoke, the LION TOBACCO.
A delightful smoke, the LION TOBACCO.
A delightful smoke, the LION TOBACCO.
Stand firm ; do not allow anyone to palm off on
you any of the inferior tobaccos that are in the
markets. Insist on having the famous LION PLUO
Tobacco, with the Red Tag bearing the rampant
lion in the centre. This Tobacco is absolutely
pure and free from all rankness.
A luxurious smoke, tire LION TOBACCO.
A luxurious smoke, the LION TOBACCO.
A luxurious smoke, the LION TOBACCO.
The latest invention in the Tobacco Trade is the
now so celebrated LION PLUG TOBACCO, with
the Red enamelled Tag, one of the most beneficial
discoveries of the age, for it means long life to
those who use it.
A most magnificent smoke, the LION TOBACCO.
A most magnificent smoke, the LION TOBACCO.
A most magnificent smoke, the LION TOBACCO.
Energy, Enterprise, and Skill have been brought
to bear in the production of this Tobacco, and the
choice quality of this brand will ever be main-
tained. The HON TOBACCO, as well as all the
entire brands of Cameron’s, are on sale to the
Trade at our Tobacco Warehouse.
XX
XX
XX
XX
Jix
xx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXX
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
X
if
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xs
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
H
ORDERN’S IN PITT-STREET
NEVER SELL OFF.
But we have SPECIAL BARGAINS
in EVERY DEPARTMENT.
To save time we quote a few.
MANCHESTER DEPARTMENT.
Brown Holland, 3%d.
Selling-off houses’ price, 6d.
Linen Diaper, l^d.
Sham cheap sale houses, lOd.
White Calico, 3%d,
Imaginary sacrifice price, Id.
White Flannel, very wide, 8d,
Clearing-out firms’ ticket, lid.
Large-size Blankets, 4s lid,
Deceptive purchase price, 6s lid.
DRESS DEPARTMENT.
Every shade in Costume Cloth, 4Wd,
Deceiving discount prices, 8d.
New Tints in Homespuns, 4d,
(Apology sale) price,
Black and Coloured French Merino, Is ad.
Reduced price houses, Is 9d.
Black and Coloured Cashmeres, lOd,
Half-price firms charge ll%d.
MANTLES, ULSTERS, COSTUME.
WOOL SQUARES.
Ladies’ Coat Shape Jacket, las 6d,
Great Bargain, price 21s.
Ladies’ Ulsters, 8s lid,
Depression trade price, Os lid.
Girls’ and Maids’ Ulsters, Is to 2s fid,
Delusive purchase price, 3s fid to 5s 9d.
Large Size Wool Squares, fid to 5s fid.
Crowded-out Sale price, Isfid to 10sfid.
SILKS, SATINS, PLUSHES, VEL-
VETS, B ROCHES.
Coloured Silks, Is
Coloured Satins, »Mjd
Moires and Broches, Is 3d
Plushes, 3s 3d
Coloured Siik Velvets, 3s 4Mid
Velveteens, Is.
COMPARE, COMPARE, COMPARE
our GOODS and PRICES, and don’t be
de “ 1^sisr o a si!¥5fflie c08 '
DELUSIVE DISCOUNTS,
or any other puff by which unscrupu-
lous traders try to deceive you.
HORDERN BROS.,
Pitt-street.
N
OTHING SUCCEEDS
SUCCESS.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
LIKE XX
OUR LATEST VENTURE.
XX
XX
THE NEW TAILORING DEPART-
MENT.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
XX beg to thank those gentlemen who have
XX honoured them with their orders during
XX the past few weeks, and desire to in-
XX form them and the public generally
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
r “ . —
that, in consequence of the unprece-
dented success of their now depart-
ment, and the large trade done t herein,
they have considerably augmented
their stock of Woollens by judicious
purchases of
NEWEST and BEST TWEEDS
FANCY COATINGS
and
FINEST BROADCLOTHS and
DOESKINS.
XX
HORDERN BROTHERS
also beg to inform the public that all
goods made in their establishment are
Invariably soaked for twenty - four
hours, thus ensuring to their customers
that
EVERY GARMENT is THOROUGHLY
SHRUNK.
HORDERN BROTHERS
would further intimate that they use
none but the best trimming in the mak-
ing up of their Tailoring Orders, and
therefore customois can rely that they
will not be annoyed by the lining's,
pockets, &c., of their garments proving
unserviceable before their clothes are
half worn out, as is too often the case.
HORDERN BROTHERS, speaking by
the unanimous verdict of the largo
number of customers who have patro-
—- nised their TAILORING DKPART-
XX MENT, can assure the public that all
XX goods made to order at their establish-
Y Y rn nnf uri 11 +14- 4f U r,.,i Cr. ,; a j. i
ment will fit to the satisfaction of those
who have to wear them.
HORDERN BROTHERS therefore in-
vite one and all to leave their Tailoring
Orders with the new Cutter of the Pitt-
street Tailoring Department, where
every garment is cut on SCIENTIFIC
PRINCIPLES by an artist who has
proved himself to our numerous cus-
tomers to be a thorough master of his
profession.
HORDERN BROTHERS tell the pub-
lic their prices cannot be beat.
They make TWEED TROUSERS
from 13s.
They make TWEED SUITS from 50s,
and
They make every other garment
equally cheap.
XXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXX
XXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXX
SOHO BAZAAR,
352 GEORGE STREET
(Paling’s Old Premises).
THIS BAZAAR, which has just been OPENED,
will be found to contain a superior assort-
ment of
Brie a Briic, Articles of Vert a,
Terra Cotta, China ware, &c.,
and all Varieties of
FANCY GOODS AND TOYS.
We draw attention to the following few lines
Tricycles, all sizes, from 28s.
Automatic Ink Pencil, Is.
43-inch double leather Rug Straps, Is. pair
French Dolls, at all prices
French Models, from Is.
Travellers’ Leather Inkstands, Is. ,
Gent’s superior Dressing Cases. 31s.
Parian Marble Figures, from 5s. fid.
Work Baskets, at all prices.
INSPECTION INVITED.
ScOao Bazaar
352 George Street.
lUBLIC NOTICE.—THOMAS BAKER has to
leave at once.
N'
OTICB TO QUIT.—THOMAS BAKER is com-
pelled to sell.
E
T
F
ABIES’ DOLMAN and ULSTERS at half prices.
J THOMAS BAKER, opposite Cathedral.
IBBONSrLACBSTandfGLdVES have'alllo'be
cleared.
HOS. BAKER will show some grand Bargains
in DRESS MATERIALS.
LANNBLS and SHEETINGS, as also Blankets,
have to go.
CHILDREN’S FOUR-IN-HAND and ULSTERS,
at absurd prices. THOMAS BAKER.
T
HOMAS BAKER’S Shops are now being pulled
down.
LL my BEAUTIFUL MILLINERY at auction
. prices.
HOMAS BAKER has to sacrifice all the NEW
COSTUMES.
LL the NEW MILLINERY at half prices.
THOMAS BAKER, opposite Cathedral.
T
A
UNDERCLOTHING and BABY LINEN, must
be cleared. THOMAS BAKER, op. Cathedral
COSTUMES originally 42s 6d, sold to-day at 14s fid;
Costumes at 31s (id, sold to-day tor 5s lid.
T. BAKER.
ELEGANT HATS at 37s 6d, have been sold to-
day for 15s. (id. We must sel’. THOMAS
BAKER.
UMBRELLAS and PARACHUTES must all be
sold. THOMAS BAKER, opp. Catnedral.
EDUCATIONAL.
MISS LYDIA HASTINGS instructs in ELOCU-
TION, VOICE BUILDING, PUBLIC and
PARLOUR READINGS. Class at School of Arts,
FRIDAY, 4 p.m. (for Ladies) ; at Sydney Arcade,
Room 95, Wednesday, 8 p.m. (Ladies and Gentle-
men).
Private Lessons, for Ladies or Gentlemen, 131
PHILLIP STREET.
Terms for Schools or Clubs on application.
Department of Public Instruction.
Sydney, 23rd July, 1883.
TENDERS FOR TAR-PAVING AND REPAIRS.
TENDERS are invited for TAR-PAVING and
REPAIRS to the PETERSHAM PUBLIC
SCHOOL.
Plana and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained, at the office of the Department
of Public Instruction, Sydney,
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Tar-paving and
Repairs, Petersham Public School,” must be lodged
with the Acting Under Secretary, Department of
Public Instruction, on or before Id o’clock a.m. on
Wednesday, the 15th August, 1883.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
G. H. REID,
A number of University men intend to
ffive Dr. Badham a complimentary banquet
on his 70th birthday, and a committee has
been formed. It ought to be one of the best
things Sydney has seen for some time
Mr and Mrs. M. Doyle, of Yamma, Riverina, cele-
brated their golden wedding a few days ago, by a
large party of old-time friends Next Tuesday,
the annual festival of the Sydney Lyceum tak .s
place in the Masonic Hall: tea, a session of music
and marching, Ac., a Bright address, and dancing
till midnight Mr. Augustus Loftus, son of His
Excellency the Governor, went to Europe by the
Caledonien on Saturday— At Rye Park, lately, a
resident was married whoso ancestor was in the
expedition of which Tom Boyd is now the only
survivor. The bridegroom was Mr. R. Hume, of
Bverton, and the bride Mrs. Gill, an affluent widow
of Sydney. Everton toffee! On 20th June, St.
Mary’s C.E., Ballina, saw a quiet wedding, when
Miss Jessie Jarrett became Mrs. W. C. Mobbs.
Bride wore dove silk, trimmed with satiu, passe-
menterie, and silk lace. Bridesmaids were Misses
Mobbs and M. Jarrett, in pink and flowers The
Mayor and Mayoress of Melbourne ■ ive a grand
ball on the 9th August ... A very grand wedding
at Melbourne was that of Mr. John Jacobs, of Ade-
laide and Mauritius, to Miss Kate Cohen, youngest
daughter of the late Hon. Edward Cohen, of Mel-
bourne. The bride’s dress was cream satin de lyon
with long square train, high bodice, half sleeves,
and collar of orange blossom. Six bridesmaids
were all in cream satin merveilleux and velvet.
Dejeuner given by Mrs. Cohen, the bride’s mother,
and ball at night. The wedding was on the 18th
July,and a “wishing joy” reception was given on the
Saturday px-evious.. Randwick Assembly to-night..
On the 13th August, the annual masked ball of the
Melbourne Deutchcr Turn Yerein will be on a
more ambitious scale than ever before. It will,
this year, take place in the Exhibition; the Lieder-
tafel, theatrical, and gymnastic branches of the
society will unite in a grand pageant, and 2000 are
expected to be present. Where is poor Sydney ?...
The Sydney Morning Herald Office Dramatic
and Musical Club gave its inaugural entertainment
on Saturday evening, in the Protestant Hall. It
was a semi-private concert, and Mr. Hugh George,
manager in the Herald office, presided as chair-
man The Petersham Owl Club intends to open
out on a ball in the middle of August, and the
committee are going to make a really choice affair
of it Now, this is how scandal grows. Two
well-known young ladies in Melbourne, having
received from home a valuable tricycle as a pre-
sent, rode into town on it and did some shopping.
But, on going home, a crowd of mannerless
tatterdemalions so persistently followed them,
that, to escape the annoyance, they turned
into a little street. Unfortunately, the little
street happened to be one more celebrated
than fashionable, and hence the trouble
Pastor Christoph Harms, of the Evangelical
Lutheran Church has been registered for the
celebration of marriages at Burrumbuttock—as if
anyone in their senses would commit the betise of
fetting spliced at a place with such a fiendish name,
ancy Sladen trying to drag Burrumbuttock into
an epithalamluml On Friday, 20th July, Mr.
Spalding, of “Ashmille,” Pyrmont Bridge Hoad,
entertained a number of friends in honour of his
daughter’s birthday. The decorations, arranged
by the fair Miss Spalding, would have done
credit to an artist. Supper was nice, and
music fine. Dancing till four in the morning
Young is to be blessed with a town band. We are,
but it isn’t often heard— A big scandal has been
caused in Wellington, N.Z., by the elopement of
a local merchant, who possesses a wife and
children, with the pretty daughter of a school-
master. Arm), ainas, and so on A complimentary
concert is to be given on the 23rd August to
Madame Charbonnet-Kellerraann, which ought to
be a success—The entertainment at Hudson
Brothers’ works, Clyde, to-day, will be a very Dig
affair, and numbers of people who cannot get
away by the special at 11.20, will follow by ordinary
trains. Dressing rooms are provided for both
ladies and gentlemen who desire to change rai-
ment for the ball. Electric light at night, so ladies
will have to tlx their colours accordingly. . At the
Queen’s Birthday ball, Brisbane, some of the
guests left the supper tables before the Queen’s
health had been drunk, and Sir Arthur Palmer
told them of it. The memory of Sir Arthur Ken-
nedy was toasted in silence—On Friday, an enjoy-
able dance was given at Eureka, Kiama, by Mr.
Neil Harper, as a wind-up to the banquet. Well
arranged programme, good music, and supper at
la.m. passed the night. Belleship wavered between
host’s eldest daughter and a young lady from the
“Cottage.” .. At Marthaville, Cessnock, Mr. and
Mrs. George Brown gave the largest party yet
known there, when music and dancing prevailed a
good deal. Three “squads” to supper. Daughter
of a local pedagogue took the honours.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Opening Entertainment at Hudson Bros.’
Union Works, Clyde July 36
Sydney Private Assembly (Nithsdale). July 37
Lyceum Anniv. Festival (Masonic Hall) July 31
University Athletic Club Sports Aug. 1
Sydney Bicycle Club Sports Aug. 4
St. Kilda College Sports Aug. 8
Bachelors’ Private Assembly (Nithsdale) Aug. 10
Citizens’ Bali to the Mayor (Exhibition) Aug. 16
Windsor Masonic Ball. Aug. 33
Comp. Ball Mr. W. King (Oddfellows Hall).. Aug. 16
Observations.
[By WONGA WONGA.]
The subject agitating the female mind most at
present in Sydney is the approaching compli-
mentary ball to the Mayor. It is devoutly to be
wished that, should the ball take the fancy dress
form, some originality will be displayed in the
choice of characters. One does get so tired of the
Queen of Scots (“ The evil that men do lives after
them,” according to Shakespeare; but the wicked-
ness of woman never dies, to judge by the number
of times we are reminded of poor Mary Stuart and
her little failings), of the Daughters of the Regi-
ment (the regiment must have its quiver very full
of “sich” by this time), the Peasant Girls, enough
to supply many operas with the inevitable opening
group; the Lizzie Stofels, and Flower Girls. It /ms
been reported that Queen Anne is dead; but Queen
Elizabeth isn’t. I wish she were. It is high time
her lioness-ship had a rest as well vs her rival. A
character quadrille would be a novelty here, at
least at public fancy dress balls.
A strauge and reprehensible disinclination for
dancing has manifested itself of late on the part of
gentlemen at evening parties, I am informed by
several young ladies. A terrible misgiving has
taken possession of the minds of the aggrieved
fair ones, that perhaps the latest development in
the habits of the ‘‘masher” is that, like the
famous officers of the “ Tenth,” they “ don’t
dance.” When one sees (as “ with these eyes I saw
it ”) three only, of fourteen young men at a dance,
allowing themselves to be prevailed upon to exert
themselves to the extent even of a waltz, it seems
that there may be some reason for apprehension
that, presently, dancing will rank with the days of
chivalry as among the things that are past. It
may have been that these languid swains were
veteran dancers, who regard parties of the “small
and early” variety much with the contempt of a
regular soldier, who has seen service, for a volun-
teer sham-fight, and consider anything beneath a
ball as a field unworthy of their powers. Or, per-
haps, they desired lo show the world that they
possessed minds superior to those of the every-
day young man who likes “ suburban hops;” only
it is a pity that, it such were the case, they do not
save their entertainers a-great deal of annoyance
by keeping their superior powers bodily and
mentally aloof altogether, instead of retiring to
smoke and exult over the number of wallflowers
they have left languishing disconsolate for want
of partners. How delightfully the tables would
have been turned, could these laggards have been,
by some magic, suddenly transported to a similar
kind of entertainment in some parts of the “ bush ”
—some country town—where every girl is a queen:
monarch of all “she surveys,” in the shape of man.
Two young ladies, whose highly ornamental ap-
pearance on the Block is an institution, on Satur-
day morning created a sensation ihore profound
than usual, not alone by the splendour of their
toilettes—though, what with silk and velvet, beads
and gold braid, crushed strawberry gloves, &c.,
marvellous is a mild word to use in summing up
their glory, for Solomon, In all hi#, was not arrayed
as these—but also by their extraordinary develop-
ment of ‘ tournure. This, I believe, is the fash-
ionable synonym for crinolette. It is a very lucky
thing for the fellow-passengers in the tram-cars of
these dazzling visions, so surprisingly d la mode,
that the development alluded to is not lateral.
The waist of another extensively “tournured”
lady arrayed in broche velvet, of the hue of rubies,
was so sylph-like that feelings of wonder, not un-
mixed with alarm, were aroused in the breasts of
beholders. Two of the handsomest and most
pleasing costumes were respectively of mouse-
coloured velvet' jacket with coat tails, worn with
cloth skirt of lighter shade, and of dark brown
brochd velvet.
One neat but not gaudy combination of colours
showed a daring independence of other people’s
opinions on the part or its wearer. It consisted of
dross of peacock blue, hat of moss green felt, with
feather to match, and gloves of the colour known
as “ mushed mulberry.”
At the Theatre Royal on Saturday night, among
the crowd assembled in the dress circle to be de-
lighted with the airy and fairy-like frolics of the
charming “ Grasshopper," some very pretty dresses
appeared. A white brochd satin, very bouffant at
the back, was worn by a young lady of Oriental
type of beauty. Burns’s song, “ My love is like
the red, red rose,” suggested itself in the appear-
ance of a lady in satin of cardinal red; while the
“ melody that’s sweetly played in tune” was per-
sonified by a pretty girl with fair hair, in an ex-
ceedingly tasteful white cashmere, trimmed with
embroidery of gold beads. Mrs. George Gordon,
as “Lady Buckram,” wore a handsome dress of
heliotrope silk and white lace, and afterwards a
walking costume of dark green satin and velvet.
Both dresses had very long trained skirts.
According to the latest intelligence from the
fashionable world, we are, for the future, to be as
independent of nature for our complexions, as we
are at present tor our figures, and our hair (tresses
I should have said).
For the benefit of those ladies who seem apt to
forget, when laying on their war-paint, that dis-
cretion is the better part of valour, and to love
their roses not wisely but too well—consequently
making their appearance in public with a patch of
red apparently dabbed on under each eye like the
clown in a pantomime—I give the information on
the authority of the Moniteub de pa Mode that
“the fashionable complexion has a pale creamy
pinh tint, with a delicious bloom on a seemingly
smooth, marble-like surface.” To acquire all this
beauty one has only to purchase a bottle of ‘.Bridal
Bouquet Bloom.’ and to apply some of its contents
to the face (with a sparing hand and artistically, I
hope).
The newest materials are shot satins, the colour-
ing gorgeous, and the designs, though occasionally
too eccentric, beautiful. One of blue and gold,
with small red and gold bees all over the surface,
must, Indeed, be gorgeous. Laces and parasols are
to be Immense during the coming seasons. No de-
vice of pattern or ornamentation can be too fan-
tastic. Parasols will be decorated with large
snrays of flowers, painted or embroidered in silk,
chenille and beads to match the toilette and its
trimming. Floral decorations for ball dresses are
to be very elaborate, small bouquets or sprays in
great profusion, to ornament the skirts, with
large ones for the shoulder corsage and in tne
hair.
Building is going on so fast in Sydney that
the man who goes to sleep on a vacant lot at night
is liable to have a roof over his head in the morn-
ing—that is, if the police do their duty.
We would give untold gold to any enter-
prising youth who would bring us John Plummer’s
head on a charger, so that never more we might be
disturbed by his lugubrious yabber about the rise
and progress of art education in England. It is
sufficient for us that British art education pro-
duced Plummer.
The phraseology of the following apology,
clipped from the advertising columns of the S. M.
Herald, is simply delicious:—“ To —, Esq.,
Auctioneer, Sydney. I, , do hereby apolo-
gise, and exceedingly regret having made use of
any remarks in or out of your salc-roooms deroga-
tory of your commercial honour, the same being
devoid of truth and entirely without foundation.
(Signed) . Witness, . Surry Hills,
Sydney.
The News calls the banquet given by
Irving to the Prince of Wales—to which only two
newspaper men, Sala and Burnand, and only three
actors were Invited—“ a Bohemian supper. 5 ’ We
wonder what Alfred would call, now, a meal of
cold corned beef, spread on paper crockery, and
attended by hungry scribes who tore at the’ bread
if the knife wasn t passed round quick enough. It
seems to us that the News is getting aesthetic.
The boys on it rank themselves high. What 18 the
meaning of this ? Can the price of liver have gone
down, or has there been a fall in the market quo-
tations of shoe-strings ?


VALUABLE TRUTHS.
“ If you are suffering from poor health
‘or languishing on a bed of sickness,
‘ take cheer, for
Hop Bitters will cure you.
“ If you are simply ailing, if you feel
‘ weak and dispirited, without clearly
‘knowing why.
Hop Bitters will Revive you.
“ If you are a Minister, and have over-
‘ taxed yourself with your pastoral
‘ duties, or a Mother worn out with care
‘ and work,
Hop Bitters will Restore you.
“If you are a man of business or
‘labourer weakened by the strain of
‘ your every-day duties, or a man of let-
‘ ters, tolling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strengiiten you.
“If you are suffering from over eating
‘ordrinking, any indiscretion or dissi-
‘ pation, or are young and growing too
* fast, as is often the case.
Hop Bitters will relieve you.
“ If you are in the workshop, on the
* farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
‘ that your system needs cleansing, ton-
* ing, or stimulating, without inttoxicat-
‘ing
Hop Bitters is what you need.
“ If you are old, and your blood thin
‘ and impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
* unsteady, and your faculties waning.
Hop Bitters will give you new Life
and Vigour.
“ HOP BITTERS is an elegant, heal-
‘ thy, and refreshing flavouring for sick-
‘ room drinks : impure water, etc., ren-
4 dering them harmless, and sweetening
‘ the mouth, and cleansing the stomach.
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
HOP BITTERS
is an Elegant, Pleasant, and Refreshing Flavouring
for sick-room drinks and Impure Water, rendering
them harmless, sweetening tne mouth, and cleans-
ing the stomach.
GHANA
TAILOE,
531
George St., Sydney.
Palace of Fashion
and Art.
“ The Apparel oft [proclaims the Nan.”
MR. J. GRAHAM has recently returned from
a Special
BUSINESS TOUR
in the United States and Europe (London, Paris,
Berlin, &c.), and has arranged for the introduction
per each Mail Steamer of the
Newest, Costliest, and Most Fashionable
CLOTHING MATERIAL,
simultaneously with their introduction by the
fashionable Houses of London and Paris, &c.
CLOTHING is made up at the shortest notice by
the best talent in Australia and London, and exact
reproductions of London and Paris Fashions in
Art and Material guaranteed.
Ballroom and Bridal Outfits, and Evening Dress
Suits, in a style unequalled or unsurpassed.
Mr. J. Graham speaks through the Press to the
gentlemen in the most distant parts of the interior.
Prompt attention and Advice given in matters of
Dress, Style, &c., with instructions for measure-
ment, free of cost, and the best and most satisfac-
tory results guaranteed.
For the protection of the Public, the name
GRAHAM and the figures S31 are of mammoth
dimensions—the largest on any establishment in
oil Australia.
The Fashionable World of Australia and
the great middle class of the cities and towns as
well, are requested to continually note the an-
nouncements in this column, from
J. GRAHAM, Tailor,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
EVERY
MAM
SHOULD
READ
m. iMsiors m won.
A valuable book, describing how suffer-
I ers from Nervous and Physical Debility,
Mental Decay and all disorders result-
ing from Excesses, Indiscretions or
Overwork, are permanently Cured
WITHOUT STOMACH MEDICATION.
Weak, nervous At impotent Men restored la
7IG0E, HEALTH AND MANHSOD.
Con.ultation and Boole free. Addr.au—
MAES: ON EEJlBSY Co., 359 Oeorge St.
SYiDnsriE-v.
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION,
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT, WEAK-
NESS, &<.
PRICE 2s. 6d.
Prepared by A. O. KEBBLBWHITE, Chemist, &o.
43 ER8KINE STREET.
Sold by W. H. SOUL, and all Chemists.
VANITY FAIR.
A crycicle—a perambulator It is said
that a young lady lived seven days on the
memory of a parting kiss. Not so. The same girl
was seen, on evening in that very week, standing
behind a rixc-bush in the garden devouring four
onions and a hunk of bread every fifteen seconds.
Talk about (he memory of a parting kiss. It takes
onions and tripe-sup. ers to make a girl happy..
...“What kind of a picture would you prefer,
miss ? ” enquired a photographer of a young lady
customer. “ Well,” was the reply, “ take me with
an expression as if I were writing a poem on love.”
Genius is not encouraged in Russia. A man of
that country who invented a contrivance to make
a snorer consume his own snores was arrested,
charged with concocting an infernal machine to
blow up the Czar An inebriate staggered from
the platform of a tramcar to allow a lady to get
on board. A sudden start of the car threw the
fair passenger into the fuddled gentleman’s arms.
“Excuse me,” said the lady. “ You’re—hie—wel-
come, ma’am!" was the vinous response — In
choosing a wife always select one that will wash.
Louisa had the toothache, and cried. Her
mother tried to pacify her. “ I’m ashamed of you.
I wouldn’t be such a baby before everybody.”
“Oh, yes, mamma, it’s all very well for you; when
vour teeth ache you can take them out.”. ..A
little boy went into the country on a visit. About
the first thing he had was a bowl of bread and
milk. He tasted it, and then hesitated a moment,
when his mother asked him if he did not
like it; to which he replied: “Yes, ma; I was
only wishing our milkman kept a cow
“I have not seen you for a long time. How are
your folks?” “ Quite well, thanks.” “And my old
friend, your mother-in-law, how is she ?” “ I don’t
know how she is: haven’t seen her or spoken to her
for five years.” “ What! had a row ?” “No,that’s
not it.” “ Then you don’t live with her any more ?”
“ I should think not. I don't look like a man who
resides with a corpse, do I?” “A dream of fair
women ” —rich men It was a man with a mother-
in-law who wrote those touching words: “Silence
is music asleep.” Thin women always talk the
fastest. A double chin cannot be wagged with
celerity, even by a woman They were courting.
” Don’t sit so near me,” she said. “ I ain’t near you,”
he said. “You are.” “I ain’t.” “ But you will be.”
"No, I won’t, neither.” “Then, you’d better go
home, for I ain’t got no use for you.” No cards.
... In modern Egypt a young man is not permitted
to see his wife’s face before marriage. Whoever
has invested in prize packages can imagine the
feelings of the average young Egyptian as
he gazes on his trinket for the first time—
A case almost paralleling Cosgrove’s—killed his
paramour in Sydney—has occurred in the United
States. A husband 77 years of age has just been
convicted and sentenced to be banged for the
murder of his wife. When a man verg> s on octo-
genarianism the few remaining days of his life
amount to little, and the gallows is shorn of much
of its terrors. The remarkable thing is that so old
a person should commit murder at all, and that the
victim should be a woman who had walked with
him down the rugged pathway of life. But, ’then,
the strange occurrences of these days would puzzle
the old augurs and the Delphic priestess Captain
Sadleir says, in the Sydney D.T.“As to faith, it is
the groat leverage of our existence. We post a
letter in faith, we accept a cheque in faith ; ’ and,
the gallant old salt might have added, “ we some-
times accept a pro. note i i faith, and get levered
into the lurch.’* Following outrageous crammer
is from Truth “ If anyone has not yet read ‘ A
Bad Boy’s Diary,’ let him at once do so. I bought
it the other day at the Mansion House Station of
the District Railroad, and intended to get out at
Charing Cross, but it amused me so much that I
positively made the tour of London, and found
myself back in the City before perceiving that 1
had passed my destination.” The book is on sale
in Sydney 'Tis true, ’tis pity ’tis ’tis true, that
Bonnard doesn’t say in his despatch an Amster-
damed word about Henniker Heaton and his coat
off making the best of it—Principal labour ques-
tion : “ Isn’t it about time to knock off ?”.. “ Many
a’oman,” says a coloured philosopher, “what don’t
wash her chillun’ at home delights in washin’ dishes
at a church fair.” A case is on record where a
barber and his victim were both happy. The
former talked on without interruption, and the
latter was deaf.. “ Mr. Isaacs can you tele me vere
vas the first diamond?” No, Mr. Yacobs, vere vas
it?” “VyNoa ’sson on der ark vas aShem of der
fust water.” While one Tyndall (the piofessor)
is trying to persuade Englishmen that all the poten-
tiality of life was once cosily wrapped up in a
fiery cloud, another (Tyndall, of Mudgee) is trying
to pass a by-law to prevent “loving couples in-
dulging in marital endearments at the street
corners.” Ho says the footpaths are not the place
for tenderness. He may be right, by George.
When we were courting (eheu ! fugaces, &c.), we
shunned the footpaths, the seashore, and—espe-
cially Mudgee.Vill you dake soraeding?” asked
Yacop, to a friend, while standing near a tavern.
“ I don’t care if I do,” was the reply. “Veil, den,
let us dake a valk.”—“Are you married, my
dear?” asked an old gentleman of a pretty girl
with whom he chanced to be sitting in a railway
carriage. “No,” said she,” but I’ve sued
a fellow for a breach of promise.” Fact. —
To-day will be yestei’day to-morrow... A London
burglar, caught in the act of opening a safe which
contained a fortune, explained how he procured a
key “ Nothing easier,” he said. “ We knew who
carried the key, and what it was like ; so me and
my pals we gets into the same carriage with your
manager when he’s goin 1 home by rail. One of us
has a bag which he can’t open. Has any gentleman
got a key ? Your manager produces his bunch,
and my pal, he has wax in his palm, and takes a
likeness of the key of the sate while seeming to
open the bag. There’s the secret for you.” A
London journal says that “ Mrs. Astor, the wife of
the new America'' Minister, who is only twenty-
three, is so beautiful that when she was presented
at court Her Majesty remained speechless with
admiration. Now, when a woman’s very pretty, she
generally makes the other women talk about her
.. At the coronation of the Czar, when it came in the
“ Kimfrederel” service to the intercessory prayer,
H.I. Majesty sobbed audibly—blue funk producing
hysteria, you know A red-headed clergyman,
named Salter, on being removed to another charge,
dyed his hair black. The bishop reproved him.
Salter pleaded that there was nothing uncanonical
in t e act. The orelate replied: “The Psalter must
be read in the churches.” — Tennyson has written
the subjoined few lines for the memorial window
to Caxton, in St. Margaret’s, Westminister:—
“ Thy prayer was ‘ Light—more light—while time
shall last!'
“Thou sawest a glory growing on the night,
“ But not the shadows which that light would cast,
“Till shadows vanish in the Light of Light.”
Wall-street has a remarkable moral barometer.
To embezzle less than 3000 dollars is downright
thieving. Up to 5000 dollars is registered as larceny.
To take 10,000 dollars is a crime. Between that and
130,000 dollars the index marks “ dishonesty,” “de-
faulting,” “ breach of trust.” From the last-named
sum to 180,000 dollars the name la irregularity, mis-
management, misfortune, softening of the brain.
To carry off a quarter »r half a million dollars is
called Financiering or Great Financiering; while
to take a million or more is “reorganisation.” Our
local resumptionists and so on, are Financiers
‘ Amorous frog,” “ rosy snow,” “expiring green,”
“budding love,” “frotty cilcquot,” and “Bengal
lire " are the peculiar names of some of the most
fashionable colours in Paris this season A
fashion paper says “wedding wreaths have more
green in them than ever.” we have seen a good
many brides; but we never observed much green
about them. Must be a misprint for lavender
trousers A lady who advertised in the
Matrimonial News (Eng.) was told she could have
her answer on giving a guarantee to pay £10 on
marriage. She demurred: but it was cheap enough
... We’ve known dull people to be very nearly witty,
by accident. A certain lady up the line, who
brought her husband more wealth than knowledge,
one day delivered herself thus to the servant;
“ Parkins, take Mrs. Jones into the garden and
show her my bed of double spittoonlas; they’re
agrowin’ doubler and doubler every day. And
let her see ray salivas, as ’as just done bloomin’.”
— Belle, who has been martyred by “ old chappie ”
collared idiot, very nnocently: “Do you like
waltzing, Mr. Jones?” Idiot: “Yes, aw, I adoah it,
don’t cher know.” Belle, smiling sweetly: “I
wonder you don’t learn then.” Among the really
handsome dresses at the last Queen’s drawing-
room were those of Mrs. and Miss Murray Smith,
of the Victorian Agent General’s family. Mrs.
Murray Smith (of Victoria) wore the newest shade
of olive-green satin; the train, put on from one
shoulder in a very graceful fashion, was of brocade,
crimson poppies of a singularly soft rich tint on
the olive green; the flowers for the dress and
the bouquet were tea roses, mingled with delicate
ferns. Her daughter wore the regulation white:
petticoat of white satin, with tulle flounces,
bordered with satin ribbon, in the pretty old style
recently revived; the train inch brocade, in
a small pattern, houffonni with tulle; long
tulle lappets, soft curling white feathers, and
half wreath of lilies of the valley A man has in-
vented a chair that can be adjusted to
eight hundred different positions. It is designed
for a boy to sit in when he goes to church
As red as the rose was my love last night—
Yes, red as a rose was sne ;
But to-day my love’s as pale and white
As the blooms of an apple tree.
I said, “You are paling for me, I fear,
Is it not so, darling, say ?”
She looked through her tears, and she sobbed “ No,
dear—
Ma took my rouge away.”
— There is talk of reducing the country postage
to a penny. Our idiot says he could not bring him-
self to “ hek ” a postage stamp when it got so low;
it would be ungenerous The first recipient of
the new Royal Red Cross Order for ladies was
Florence Nightingale It is said a musician once
dropping in on Rossini found him practising at the
piano. “Some of your own music, I suppose?”
said he. “No, it is Wagner’s.” “But—why I you
have got it upside down ?” “ Yes, I know,” replied
Rossini, “but I tried it the other way, and <;a
n'allaitpas." Great complaints are made about
the invites sent out for the Queen’s State balls. All
fiesh names are supposed to be submitted, but as
Her Majesty lives quite out of gay society, she
takes the recommendations of certain officials, and
the result is that every year the coveted invita-
tions become more and more a matter of cliqueism.
Those who do not stand well with these particular
officials have scarcely a chance, however eligible
in status .. A dentist recently received this_ order
for a set of teeth: “My mouth is three inches
across, five-eights inches through the jaw. Sum
hummocks on the edge. Shaped like a horseshoe,
toe forward. If you wish me to be more par-
ticklar I shall hev to come thar.” — A writ for
£1000 has been served on an Auckland (N.Z.) resi-
dent of good position for the seduction of his
wife’s sister. He “ cleared ” by the ’Frisco mail—
An extraordinary pearl has been brought down to
Perth (W.A.) from Nlchol Bay: it is composed of
nine pearls about the size of peas, bedded together
in the form of a perfect cross, about 14 inches
long Charles: “ Never see you without a cup of
tea; what a living praise to the article you aro—a
regular ‘tea-deum;’ or, as you’re a woman you
must be ‘tea-dea.’” Florence: “Yes, and being a
man it must be that you are ‘tea-deus.’” —
What in thunder does this, from the Evening
Alfred, mean Alfred, Will be in Sydney Wed-
nesday or Thursday night, quarter-past 7, corner
near convent. Emily.” A quarter-past seven,
and near the convent! What lias Pastor Allen to
say to this ? A N.Z. husband caught another
man, recently, tickling his wife in church, from
the seat behind. He bore it until the “ amen ” of
the benediction fell from the parson’s lips. Then
his fist fell at the same moment. Fine and costs,
£5 “ Anti-Shouting Society ’’ formed at Orange.
The Grand Master is a Hebrew — It is said that
during the great Fisheries Exhibition an innocent
Scotch fisher-girl asked the Princess Beatrice:
“ Hoo’s yer mither, ma'm ?” To which Trix
politely replied: “She’s not quite so well as we
could wish, thanks.”.. .The reason barristers shave
is that the profession is nothing unless barefaced...
It is stated that many persons have found sea-life
—that is to say, living and sleeping, not by, but on
the sea—is a certain cure for bronchitis. This
malady disappears as if by magic on board a ship;
and although, with persons constitutionally dis-
posed to it, it will reappear when the land is again
inhabited, another spell of sea-®fe will always take
it away again.. .At Wellington, N.Z., Arthur Boyes,
who ran away with another man’s wife, stands
committed for stealing certain wearing apparel
belonging to the aggrieved husband.. .The special
correspondent’s letters telegraphed by G. A. Sala
to the Daily Telegraph, from Moscow, cost 9d.
a word Freddy has given Lily Langtry a £5000
diamond The proper study of mankind is—
woman. Every young man should embrace this
study The Girls’ Paper says:—“Very large
checks are again used in walking dresses.” So
they are; only we spell it “cheques.” Among
the new crazes are star-shaped parasols with eight
stumpy points, as if two squares of silk were
placed crossway one on another, trimmed with
fine lace Another is three-legged milking stools
for the drawing-room, with square seats and ornate
logs....Previous to lacing gowns, they should be
fastened with four or five hooks ; this takes the
stress off the lace, and saves puckering.. The
“ White Ball ” is for the young unmarried. At it,
young ladies wear white satin, silk, or tulle, and
their ornaments are pearls and white flowers. The
“Pink Ball” is for matrons At a late ball, sets
of Lancers and Quadrilles represented the four
seasons. The ladies in each were adorned, and the
gentlemen wore flowers, according to the season of
their set.. “ How old is your mother?” asked a
visitor of a seven-year-old, to keep the conversa-
tion afloat. “I don’t know,” was the reply, “but
she must be pretty old. She’s been grown up ever
since I can remember.” — Always choose a hot-
tempered girl. She’ll lose patience with your
awkward attempts to soothe baby, and will pro-
bably jump out and walk it the rest of the night
herself ...A dress was lately exhibited, which was
suitable for travelling, but could be transformed
into a swell dinner costume in a few minutes ; and
it packed in a box ten inches long ..A London
rector, who had a telephone to his study, was
absent when a call came, but his little daughter
was there and answered. She was well up in cate-
chism and class work, and on her father being
asked for, she tubed back : “ Papa isn’t at homo ;
but if it’s anything about your soul I can tell you,
for I know the whole plan of salvation.”— “ Have
another?” said Fopkins. “ No,” said Fogg, “ I never
risk more than one drink. I might say something
foolish, and people would think I had taken too
much.” “ ot at all,” rejoined Fopkins; “say what
you like; no one will put it down to drink who
knows you!” A wonderful ball-dress created by
a Parisian milliner, is called the Chamberlain, after
the American beauty; and the pattern is to be used
by no one till she has displayed it in London The
costliest pair of shoes ever made in America were
made for a girl to wear at Mr. Belmont’s fancy ball.
They wore of yellow velvet laced up the side, the
eyelets being rimmed with solid gold. Precious
stones and dangling gold chains were studded all
over. All the family jewels were taken from
their settings to grace those dainty feet
It’s a curious fact that female phrenologists
and astrologers, who peer Into the mysteries
of the future, always live about two doors from a
butcher’s shop.. ..In Irkutsk, milk is sold by the
square block, and carried home on a string. .‘‘How
are men kept warm In the Arctic regions ?” asked
Tommy. ‘* They marry, same as here,” replied his
father sadly A very remarkable dress was worn
at a late Queen’s drawing-room by Mrs. Haweis,
author of “ The Book of Beauty.” It consisted of
a train of antique brochfS satin in opal-green
and gold, trimmed with peacock feathers, petticoat
of cream antique covered with Venetian
Eoint, and corsage worked in Turkish gold em-
roidery... Adam Foropaugh, circus proprietor,
some time ago offered £2000 premium for the most
beautiful woman in America, to exhibit. Louise
Montague was awarded the palm. But Adam never
“put down the spons;” so Miss Montague, who is
really lovely, sued him for breach of contract. He
pleaded that Miss Montague knew the prize was
only an advertising catch, and that her reward was
to be a salary of £20 a week to travel with his
show. A callous jury awarded the lady £30
damages. And now she keeps a pub After a
long reign, the tight tie-backs have gone out.
Skirts are still pulled tight round the front and
sides, but the tournure behind is invariably large.
No woman laying pretence to fashion any longer
shows a sheath-like appearance. The best Parisian
women wear crinoletles rather short and very
narrow, which throw the dress well out from the
waist, but from that down the skirt falls almost
straight.... Bangs are dying a lingering death.
They linger simply because they suited more
women, better, than any style of hairdressing for
years. The women who can stand having their
hair drawn up to expose the forehead, without de-
triment to their reputation for beauty, are few.
Not one in twenty can adopt the French style of
heaping the coiffure on the cop of the head, with
reasonable success. Most of Eve’s daughters will
always try to look their best, so they fight in sup-
port of the dying bang as long as they dare
Velvet parasols are a new foible, but must be too
expensive to become general The last ugly
thing is harlequin hoisery, that is, stockings half
one colour, half another; the division line running
right fiom the toes to—well, to the top of the
stocking. Hose with fine perpendicular lines, how-
ever, are extremely neat, and any limbs with the
least claim to symmetry show to the best advan-
tage. A lady, talking enthusiastically of them the
other day, said; “ I wish you could see them.” We
said, “no,” firmly; and sent her on to the S.M.
Herald office.
It is impossible to remain long sick or out
of ealth were Hop Bitters are used. See another.
rt Imagine,” says a writer at the Rational
Dress Exhibition, “ a young lady wearing a crim-
son-and-black satin closely-pleated skirt, to the
waist of which is attached a black satin kilt reach-
ing to five or six inches above the knee. Under-
neath is discovered a pair of attenuated knicker-
bockers, of course in black and red satin, which
fasten on the calf of the leg, and are edged with
lace; add a sleeveless jacket with a flat basque be-
hind, a wide black satin sash knotted on the left
side with crimson rosettes, and you have “the
dress of the future.” Another enormity is the
mountain-climbing dress and trousers. The body
is a sort of jacket, but the skirt is the most ridicu-
lous affair, for just below the hips runs a scalloped
frill, without any raison d'etre whatever, just de-
serving the name of “imbecile ornament.” Small
tabs or straps hang about promiscuously, for
which one has to find their corresponding buttons,
that hide away as if ashamed of the effect they
produce when buttoned.
In the Press, the “Mining Leaseholders’
Guide,” 130 pp. 8vo. A handy book of the Laws
and Regulations relating to Gold and Mineral
Leases, Mineral License Holdings, Mining upon
Reserves, &c. Also, Mineral Conditional Pur-
chases ; How to distinguish, test, and assay mine-
rals, &c. By T. F. De Courey Browne, author of
“TheMiners’ Handy Book.” Orders received by
J. J. Moore and Co., 551 Gcorge-street.*
THE CZAR.
A winter palace young man,
A Moscowvitch young man,
A one to compassionate,
Next to assassinate
Over a mine young man.
An ermlned and crossed young man,
A merely half-crowned young man,
A-shaky and rickety,
Uitte-lock clickrty,
Dodge the next bomb young man.
A pallid and thin young man,
A haggard and lank young man,
A troubled oommandery,
Czar Alexandery,
Foot in the grave young man!
A LOVELY ORGAN.
Dr. Bolus (with professional feeling): “ Her tongue is beautiful, but I don’t like her
pulse.”


Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
, nofralla’s farourite remedy. We all suffer more
A if.ss from liver complaint, thereby hindering
0 +hor organs from fulfilling their functions. Set
PJr liver in order by taking the above remedy, and
IrJkrt lungs, brain, and stomach will unite in
graceful chorus.
ABBAHAM’S pills,
The true invigorator. If your vital forces are
Hcnressed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of coming
disaster your liver is unequal to its work. To
obviate ’afl these symptoms there is no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABRAHAM’S FILLS,
The great Health Hestorer. A vast proportion of
Aie maladies and ailments attacking the human
frame are really due to a disordered liver. Set this
organ in order and health returns as if by magic.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are Imitations, ask for ABRAHAM’S
PILLS. See that each box, by whomsoever sold,
bears the inventor’s name and trade mark. The
<;eorK . e street, Sydney.
MONEY LOANS GRANTED at moderate inte-
rest on Furniture (without possession),
Deeds, Bonds, Certificates, Shares, or other Secu-
rities, payable to suit convenience.
No Deduction made from amount Required,
which will bo paid in full within twelve hours of
application.
MONT DB PTETE CENTRAL LOAN OFFICE,
98 Castlreaoh Street,
One door South of King Street.
B S,
WORKING CLASS
GENERATE YOUR OWN GAS.
Appiv to
P D. K E E L Y AND C O.,
71 Goulburn-street, Sydney.
Dealers in Portable Gas, Gasaliers, Lamps, and
Fluid. Comfort, Economy, and Safety.
Mr. Kecly, on behalf of the Patent Portable Gas
Co. had charge of the lighting of the hall and
supper rooms at the Hay Demonstration, and the
lighting of Croydon Station, He undertakes to
teach his customers in throe minutes the mode of
1* discount will be given to storekeepers
on remittances per orders, and goods forwarded
with quick despatch. Orders and remittances to
be sent to the above address. No orders attended
to without remittance,
LIST OF PRICES:
4 Light Gasaller
3 do do
2 do do
Wall bracket lamp, burn 16 hours
do do 9 do
Table lamps, 2 branch ..
do 1 do ..
Brass Brackets
All Globes and Fittings
Fluid, in eases, 8 gal
1 gal. fluid gives a light equal to 12s worth kero
sene. Instructions ns to tic mode of lighting sent
to clients with despatch of goods.
Goods sent to all parts of the Colonies.
70s
50s
35s to 45s
178 6d
15s
60s
45s
40s
5s extra
2s Od per gal.
EVEIIY DESCRIPTION OF FISHING TACKLE,
Wholesale and Retail.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
41.1 GEORGE STREET.
Y. E. ANGLE’S
(Late of 31 Market-street),
Fashionable Tailoring Establishment
6 3 6 O E O R G E ST R E E T,
Brickfield Hill.
A large and well-assorted stock of Tweeds and
Coatings, direct from (ho manufacturers, always
on hand.
All Garments Cut In the most Fashionable Styles.
PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
Note the Address —
63G George St., Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY.
ERNEST CARTER,
WardeH Saw and Planing Mills,
RICHMOND RIVER.
All Timber is thoroughly seasoned before It
leaves these Mills, and is very light for carriage
up-country, and lit for immediate use.
PINE, CEDAR, BEECH, FLOORING, LINING.
Mou Idings, Architraves. The Trade only Supplied,
A. GORMAN,
Late of the Telegraph Hotel, Inverell,
HAS OPENED THE
‘ Cla,rem.d.oan.,’
Corner of ELIZABETH & PARK Streets,
And which he Intends to keep as a first-class Hotel,
A. O. hopes, by strict attention to Business, to
gam a share of their PATRONAGE. VISITORS
will find this surpasses most of the leading
HOTELS for ACCOMODATION and every CON-
VENIENCE ; and, as it overlooks HYDEPARK.it
must necessarily be WELL VENTILATED.
SUITES of ROOMS for FAMILIES,
as per agreement.
HOT and COLD WATER BATHS.
PORTER in Attendance Day and Night.
not necessary to mention the quality of th
WLVLh, SIM HITS, BEERS, &c. &c„ as he Is, and al
ways has been, noted throughout the COLONIEl
jor selling uotuing but the very best.
BULL & ADRIAN,
Merchant Tailors,
Ik
S3
SO
SAY
ALL
OF
US
470 G-eorge-street, opposite the Markets,
SYDNEY.
PAPERHANGINGS!
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSERY PAPERS.
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, &C.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwick,
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Ilunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &c.
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE
COFFEE PALACE,
231 GEORGE STREET NORTH.
JOHN JOHNSON, Proprietor.
TIT A VING opened the above, the Proprietor has
supplied a want long felt in Sydney. The
first floor contains spacious Ladies and Gentle-
men’s Dining and Drawing Rooms, also Suites and
Single Bedrooms (viz., 45 bedrooms), will be open
shortly. A trial solicited.
CALL AND INSPECT.
THOMAS MUNRO,
iST~ HERALDIC ARTIST AND ENGRAVER,
PLAIN AND FANCY STATIONER,
10 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
A Large and varied assortment of Letter Books,
Account Books, and all office requisites. Purses,
Albums, Plush Bags, and Reticules; Artists’ Mate-
rials, Photo, and Picture Frames, Illuminated
Scripture and other texts. Birthday, Condolence,
and Memorial Cards.
Agent for August Huenerbeln for Pianos, Or-
gans, and Music. The Engraving workshop being
under my own management, I feel confluent in
suiting the public taste.
E WOLFF AND SON,
• Manufacturers of
Black Lead Pencils, Drawing Chalks, Crayons,
Artists’ Materials, and Stationers’ Sundries.
Makers, by appointment, to Her Majesty’s Govern-
ment and the Bank of England.
Office and Warehouse: 55 Great Queen-street,
Lincoln’s Inn Fields, W.C. Factory: Falcon Pencil
Works, Battersea, London, S.W. A full set of
samples can be seen, and further particulars ob-
tained, on application to
E. B. WOLFF (Sole Agent for N.S.W.), care of
Messrs. Feldhelm, Gotthelf and Co., 30 Hunter-
street, Sydney.
ECURE A LOT AT SPRINGSIDE
£1 DEPOSIT, £1 PER MONTH.
FORTUNATUS FINANCIAL, LAND, AND
INVESTMENT COMPANY,
317 PITT STREET,
Near Temperance Hall.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
WIRE WORKERS,
WISH to coll your attention to WIRE GOODS
we make and have in stock as under
FLOWER STANDS, for holding flowers in pots,
made of iron and wire, handsomely framed and
bronzed, suitable for rooms, halls, balconies, ver-
andahs, and conservatories. Also, WIRE FERN
BASKETS, all sizes and prices.
SIEVES and SCREENS, for screening lime,
gravel, coal, &c., all meshes, from 1 hole to 100
holes to the squares inch.
WIRE LATTICE-WORK, for protection of win-
dows from breakage caused by hail-storms or boys’
throwing stones. Also, WIRE NETTING, all sizes,
from 12 in. to 72 in. wide.
CAGES of every description, for canaries nn/i
parrots, singly or in nests, suitable for store-
keepers.
And every description of WIRE WORK made on
the premises.
EASTWAY, BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE-STREET.
Elf” Illustrated Catalogues on application.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
IF your Chemist or Grocer cannot or will no
supply you with the “PAINLESS COR!
RELIEVER,” write direct to the Registered Pro
prietor, who will forward a bottle to all parts o
Australasia, Post Free, for 2s. 6d.
Address:—JOHN CLOWES,
One Mile Creek, Gympie.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
FOWLER’S POTTERY and
BRICKWORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
T
HE FEDERAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA
(Limited)
Incorporated under Act of Parliament.
CAPITAL, £1000,000 ; SUBSCRIBED, £666,000.
Directors •
The Hon. W. A. Brodribb, M.L.C., Chairman.
W. H. Bldred, Esq., J.P. F. T. Humphery, Esq.,
Robert Hudson, Esq. M.P.
J. Y. Mills, Esq., J.P.
Manager ; F. S. Macdermott.
Accountant: John Docker,
Solicitors : Messrs. Robertson, Fisher, and Ralfe.
Temporary Banking House, 257 George-street,
North, with branch at the Haymarket.
Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies
and in Europe.
Highest rates of interest given on Deposits, and
all usual Banking business transacted without
delay to customers.
F. 8. MACDERMOTT, Manager.
W. H. Ariel I and Co.’s Agencies.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, Canter-
bury, Normanby, and Christmas Family Cakes,
Plum Puddings, Mincemeat, Self-raising
Airated Flour, Infant’s Food, Treacle and
Golden Syrup.
EXCELSIOR* MILLS.—Superior Victorian Oat-
meal and Pearl Barley.
DILLON & BURROWS’ prize assorted Confec-
tionery.
J. KITCHEN & SONS, No. 1 Mottled and Toilet
Soaps.
J. F. M'KENZIE & CO.'S Coffee, Mustard, Cocoa,
Tea, in and lib, packets; dressed Rice,
and Patent Groats.
HUNT & CO.'S Prize Baking Powders, Adelaide
Jams Paper Bags, &c.
343 arid 345 KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
_
Coolalta Wine, Bodega,
MOllT'S PASSAGE, back of Messrs. W. H,
Paling and Co.’s.
Choicest Wines, by the glass or bottle, may be had
at the Bodega, Hot Spiced Wines during Winter.
Open from 9 a.m. till 6 p.m.
DANCING— Prof. WEST’S Classes. — Private
Lessons, Monday and Thursday mornings ;
afternoon classes, Thursdays. Evening: Beginners,
Mondays, 8 p.m.; Thursdays, 7.30 p.m.; Advanced,
8.30 p.m., at Tattersall’s New Hall, Hunter-street.
Second term now commencing. During present
school holidays there will be time for private
lessons in new waltz, &c. 261 Elizabeth-street.
The Dancing Academy being the largest In
Sydney, there are now vacancies, quarter dating
THE AUSTRALIAN
Diamond Drill Company.
CONTRACTS will be undertaken by the above
Company to bore any sized holes, vertical or
horizontal, up to
3 INCHES, OR LARGER IF REQUIRED,
to any depth, at a reduction of 25 PER CENT.
BELOW ANY PREVIOUS CHARGE.
The Company, in all cases, will find their own
fuel and water for drilling purposes, and will make
no charge for loss of diamonds or wear and tear on
plant, and will also provide workmen engineers, &c.
The new duplex barrel, introduced into the
colony by Mr. J. Coghlan, will be used free of
charge to persons searching for minerals.
Mr. Coglan has every confidence, from his prac-
tical knowledge of the Diamond Drill, that he will
be able to give genet*!satisfaction, as well as quick
despatch to all order* addressed to the
Temporary Offices, 311 George-street.
JOHN COGHLAN,
General Manager, pro, tern.
Singer’s Sewing Machines.
turnerT & CO.
Are the Recognised Agents of the
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS:
2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week.
And no interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
IW BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE “ SING ER,”
TURNER & COMPANY,
353 George-street.
THE ONLY "SINGER.”
Turner and Company,
678 GEORGE STREET.
VISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
FOR
CHEAPNESS, FIT, AND WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any
part of the Colony.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 Park Street,
IMPORTERS
of
PIANOS,
by every maker
of renown, from
£25 and up-
wards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
Pianos! Pianos! Pianos!
FREE TRADE and NO MONOPOLY.
Live and Let Live, these are Our Mottoes.
It is a well-known fact that the Foundations o
Colossal Fortunes have been established upon the
Profits arising from the SALE OF PIANOS in this
City during the past Twenty Years by those
having* little or no knowledge of the Construction
and Details of the Pianoforte. While giving the
Public the benefit of our Mr. Young’s 25 years’
personal practical experience (5 years in John
Broadwood and Sons, London, and 20 in N.S.W.),
we will, at the same time, be satisfied with a fair
percentage on the Co-operative Principle, sharing
the Profits with our Customers. AVe will sell from
25 per cent, less than the same class of Instrument
can be Purchased at any Music Shop in Sydney,
and we will offer nothing for Sale we cannot
fruarantee. American Organs at proportionately
ow prices. Also a Large Stock of Kohn’s Cele-
brated Austrian Furniture, a single article of
which we are selling at Wholesale Prices.
Come and See Our LITTLE BEAUTIES in Wal-
nut and Pull Iron Frame, at £25 cash, Eleswhere
£10 more, or under a Liberal Time Payment Sys-
tem.
George E. Young and Co.,
BT* 286 PITT STREET,
South of Royal Arcade.
BRAUN’S WALTHAM WATCHES.
TOOK FIRST PRIZE
And all the Gold Medals at every Exhibition.
MADE ESPECIALLY FOR
B. BRAUN,
Watchmaker, Jeweller, & Optician,
1ST 376 GEORGE STREET,
Near the Post Office.
The Largest Stock of Waltham Watches in Sydney.
500 to select from.
Silver Walthams from £3 to £12
Gold Walthams from £8 to £45.
Warranted from two to seven years.
1 3T Only at B. BRAUN, 876 George street.
SHORT HORN
“WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDTARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON-The
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the loading
beverage in Australia; It has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like It.
S. HOPPNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
THE HARWOOD
Fibre Chair Seating,
Possessing all the qualities of a perfect seat, viz,:
Strength, Durability, Ease, Beauty, Cleanliness
and Cheapness.
THIS CHAIR SEAT is made from the strongest
known fibres and a perfectly waterproof
cement, and after fifteen years’ constant use, wo
can speak positively us to its merits. It cannot
split or check, neither will exposure to sun or rain
affect it.
Awarded - Gold Medal at the late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
For RE-SEATING it is unrivalled. In every
house, store and office, are chairs with seats broken.
Any person can re-seat and make as good as new a
ciiair that is otherwise worthless, at a very trifling
ex peusc.
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE FOR HOME USE,
Agents Wanted in Every District.
From £3 to £5 a week can be made by any smart
man or boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
83 CLARENCE STREET.
T
O BE DISPOSED OF BY SUB-
SCRIPTION
on the
ART UNION PRINCIPLE,
fir non Pounds worth of fir f)f)f)
Freehold Properties. mI3,UUU
In 15,000 Shares of £1 Each
1st Prize, £8000—Hardwicke Estate, Yass, N.8.W.,
3700 Acres.
2nd Prize, £3000, Farm, 800 Acres, near Gunning,
N.S.W.
3rd Prize, £3000, “ St. Kilda House,” Goulburn, 15
Rooms (insured £1000).
4th Prize, £800, “ Two-storied House ” In Clifford-
street, Goulburn.
5th Prize, £400
Bth Prize, £150
7th Prize, £130
8th Prize, £130
9th Prize, £85
10th Prize, £75
11th Prize, £75
13th Prize. £76
13th Prize, £76
14th Prize, £35
15th Prize £25
10th Prize £25
The following gentlemen have consented to act as
Committee
J. T. GANNON Esq., M.L.A., Goulburn.
JOHN BADGERY, Esq., Sutton Forest.
A. M. BETTS, Esq., Solicitor, Goulburn.
R. G. COOPER, Esq., Wllleroo, Lake George.
JOHN DAVIDSON, Esq., Solicitor, Goulburn.
S. EMANUEL, Esq., J.P., Goulburn.
S. MEYER, Esq., J.P., Goulburn.
The DRAWING will take place in the Mechanics’
Institute, Goulburn, in the presence of the Com-
mittee, on 30th August next, and will be open to
the Shareholders.
For particulars see Prospectus, which may be
had upon application to J. J. ROBERTS, Secre-
tary, Box 83, Post-office, Goulburn. Local Agents
will be appointed in most of the principal Towns of
N.S.W.
Pend Stamp for Prospect!**.


As a specimen of Ancient Pistol ism of the
most extravagant kind, we place the following
letter, sent by the Wild River Times to the
Divisional Board at Herberton (N.Q.) in front of
anything we have ever seen. Here it is:—“Sir, In
accordance with the request of your Board, I have
the honour to inform you (by direction of the pro-
prietor) that ho is not prepared to alter his pub-
lished sc de of charges tor advertising; also, that
he laughs to scorn the false statement that the
Times and Advertiser are identical as to pro-
prietorship, and throws the base lie at the teeth of
the unscrupulous utterer. Yours obediently, J. R.
Boybtt, General Manager.” “ Laughs to scorn ”
is majestic; “base lie” is good, but a little worn;
so also is “ unscrupulous utterer,” but “General
Manager” is simply stupendous. How many other
managers are there, wewonderl We suppose the
duty of the General is to round up the others out
of the gutter when they so out to make mud-pies,
and to turn the handle of the machine in the inter-
vals of turning the neighbour's cow out of the yard.
The Bombastes Purioso style of writing flourishes
nowhere in such perfection as in a back-block
Queensland township. Imagine a shock-headed
person with inky fingers, sitting on a gin-case in a
blue-mouldy little lair he calls an office, and laugh-
ing anyone to scorn! We are amused. Wo know
Boyett well. He used to print the Miner, a bit
after the rush broke out to the Hodgkinson, and
at that time he was a most inoffensive person; not
a bit of the General Manager about him then.
There are also a number of other people, now
freat, who at that time were inoffensive enough,
or instance, Handsome Fwcd. Cooper, the lawyer,
who married a £100,000 Victorian heiress the other
day. Why, Fred, had once, in those days, to stay in
bod at O’Loghlen’s shanty, while they washed his
shirt. [Memo.—A new member of the staff in-
forms us that Fred’s lady only got a dot of £500,
and that not a red cent more will bo forthcoming
until J. B. Watson, who isn’t half as old as Fred.,
dies. J. B. is as tough a man as there is on
Bendigo, and will probably live 80 years more. We
are sorry. We thought Fred, was in for a big
crushing at last.)
One of the pro-
prietors of the Temoka
Star has joined the Sal-
vation Army. There is
more joy in Hades over
this than if ninety-nine
just men had been sent
there in a batch.
Under the selection-
surrender business, more
inequity has been legally
effected in S.A. than years
of wise legislation can
efface. Not to take an ex-
treme example which
might read like Gllbertian
burlesque, just look at a
fair average case — as
thus : On Yorke’s Pen-
insula A agrees to give
the S.A. Government £6
an acre for a 1000-acre
block, which happens to
be clear. B, on the
strength of this, agrees to
give £1 an acre for the
adjoining 1000-acre block
of mallee scrub. B spends
£3 an acre in clearing his
selection. Catf, the com-
missioner, waltzes in with
his surrender panacea;
and A surrenders, re-buy-
ing at £1 per acre—an
instalment previously
paid by him being credit-
ed on account of this last
price. B, having paid for
clearing, cannot afford to
surrender. Upshot: B’s
Inferior selection costs
him £4 an acre, and A gets
the best block at £1, If
this kind of thing does
not suggest the desir-
ability of perpetual leas-
ing, what will ever do
so ?
THE CAPTAIN’S TRAGEDY.
(A Story In Two Chanters.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
CHAPTER I.
They were a handsome pair, the Captain and his
wife; and when they came to live in Holborn
House, and took the largo front room on the third
floor and the bed-room adjoining, the landlady felt
justified in treating the other landladies in the
terrace with a patronising pity which made them
her enemies for over. She know that their most
distinguished lodgers were railway-clerks or re-
tired grocers, and, like the true woman that she
was, triumphed in the knowledge. The terrace was
respectable. Its look of dusty decency was suffi-
cient proof of that. But it was not fashionable.
Therefore, you can easily see that, to have a real
Captain and his lady dwelling there, was almost as
great a distinction as to have the presence of
royalty in a London drawing-room. You will
understand this feeling the better when I inform
you that the terrace referred to was lu a garrison
town in the West of England.
Certainly the Captain was a charming man. He
had glossy hair and whiskers, and a pair of fine if
somewhat dissipated-looking eyes. There was
about his general air that combination of the
soldier and the civilian which told you at once that
he belonged to the non-combatant portion of the
British army. As Indeed he did. Captain Addison
was one of the cleverest and most popular officers
In the Control Department. His wife was also a
product of the union of war and peace—a bright
little woman with the vivacity of a vivandtere
tempered with the culture of a lady.
The tradesmen who supplied the terrace with its
humble requirements were in raptures over their
new customers. When theu ordered beef or mut-
ton they ordered it by the leg or joint, and had a
fresh joint every day. There was no peddling by
the pound with them. And fish, and fowl, and
ham, and delicate preserves: not to mention the
finest wines and the best bottled beer —how the
Captain did live to be sure! “That’s what I call a
real tip-top swell and no mistake,” said the butcher.
“And there’s no mistake about his wife, either—
she is a lady if you like,” remarked the grocer,
who had Just receiv ed a ten-pound order from the
lady in question. Even the milkman forgot that
disbelief in humanity which seems to bo the chief
characteristic of his class—and which, probably, is
the necessary result of a life spent in selling diluted
milk as the genuine article—and became a credu-
lous visionary when the Addisons were spoken of.
As for the greengrocer, he was simply a dan-
gerous fanatic upon the subject.
The tradesmen had good
reason to be pleased with
their patrons. Every bill
was paid punctually, and
the boy who brought it
went away dancing with
a douceur as large as his
week’s wages. It is, there-
fore, hardly to be won-
dered at that tha conclu-
sion the gossips of the
neighbourhood came to
was—to use their own
forcible, if inelegant,
idiom—that the Addisons
were “ rolling in riches.”
The pawnbroker was the
only man with a cynical
eye. And he said nothing
—which is a very sensible
thing to say on some oc-
casions.
This rvent on for some
time, and then a chilling
change came over the
spirit of the dream. The
serpent of suspicion be-
gan to whisper evil things
in the ears of the trades-
men. The butcher said no
more about tip-top swells;
the grocer grew ungra-
cious, the milkman mo-
rose, and the vegetable-
man was cured of his
fanaticism for over. Only
the pawnbroker smiled.
The reason of this un-
timely frost was that pay-
ment of their bills had
been postponed for the
first time. Then the neigh-
bours noticed with sneer-
ing looks that boys used
to call at Holbom House
empty-handed, and, such
was the charitable sup-
position, go away as they
came. One of these neigh-
bours whom she had
most affected to patronise
said to the landlady one
day in a voice of wither-
ing sweetness, “My dear,
do you know what people call your house now ? ”
“No,” she replied. “The Cigar Divan,” said the
other. “ What do you mean,’ asked the landlady,
angrily—“why?” “Because, my dear,” suavely
answered her neighbour, “ they say there is always
a boy at the door-.”
The diplomatic talents of Mrs. Addison had plenty
of employment at this time. The halcyon days of
unlimited credit had passed away, and people who
a few months before were her most humble and
honoured servants she had to coax and wheedle
to get the smallest article from them. And, where
coaxing and wheedling would not do, she had to
strain the truth. This she found rather hard at
first, as she had been brought up in a parsonage
where she had acquired an old-world prejudice
against mendacity of all kinds. But, as Shakspeare
says, “adversity has its uses,” and one of these is
that it removes prejudices. Besides, dear Charles
(that was her husband’s Christian name) had always
been accustomed to luxuries, and would surely
pine away and die if he had to eat ordinary food
like common people. And so she charmed the
wine-merchant into sending another case of claret
on credit—and expensive claret it was, too, for
Charles was a connoisseur in wines, and would not
insult his palate by offering it any thin-blooded
vinegarish vintage that uncultured tastes might
deem good enough for after-dinner drinking.
And so, in one way or another, she managed to
cater for the epicurean appetite of her husband,
and was happy—as, of course, it was her duty to be.
She herself, when he was away, was quite content
to dine on shavings of bread and butter, and a cup
of tea made so that the flavour of the water should
not be lost. Even this economy, however, failed
at last. Then she began to grow pale. And then
the Captain began to dine out.
He bad come home to dinner this evening. It
was a pleasant picture. The curtains were drawn,
and a bright lire blazed in the grate—for, though
it was only the end of summer, the evening was
cold. In the centre of the table was a large bunch
of hot-house plants that made even the prose of
eating seem poetical. The Captain had a quaint
theory that the mind and body should both be fed
at the one time, and so he always liked to see
flowers on the dinner-table. This particular bunch
happened to be there then because it had been
made a present to Mrs. Addison that morning.
But, although poetry may be a pleasant sauce, it
makes a poor dish. And so the Captain felt natur-
ally disgusted when he saw that he would either
have to dine off it or cold meat. Nor did it please
him any the more to notice that his wife’s eyes
were red; but, being a good-humoured man at
heart, ho was not too hard upon her for showing
this trace of womanly weakness. He just jested a
little about the general uselessness of women in
the world, and then made the best of the cold meat.
Then he asked for the elaret.
“ There is none dear,” she replied, timidly, “ the
wine merchant refuses to supply us with another
drop until we pay his bill.”
“ And what have you got there ?”
She passed over the flagon.
He poured some of the contents outdnto a glass.
Beer!
Common draught beer!
The Captain rose up from the table afld ground
his teeth.
He weuld like to have killed somebody, but he
was too much of a gentleman to kill his. wife, and
there was nobody else near upon whom he might
wreak his wrath. And it would be beneath his
dignity to go downstairs and kill the cook. Hav-
ing a talent for logic, which, if cultivated in time,
might have made him another Whately, ho saw
this position at once. So ho sat down, and tried to
look calm.
“Dearest,” said his wife, creeping behind his
chair and putting her arms round his nock, “ I tried
my best not to worry you with these troubles, but
indeei ’’—here she broke down, and sobbed out the
rest—” indeed, I couldn’t do any more.”
They were actually in debt to tradesmen! This
was rather a revelation to the Captain, who was
altogether too superior a man to trouble himself
about domestic affaire. He liked his little luxuries,
but would never have dreamt of asking how they
had been obtained. Such sordid enquiries would
have taken the edge off his appetite. And this,
excepting perhaps death, is the worst calamity
that can happen to an epicure. Now, however, he
had to face facts. And they must have been very
grim ones if they had a grimmer face than he.
Only for a moment, though. Then ho brake the
silence with a laugh—a reckless laugh.
“ Dearest, what is the matter ?' said his wife
with frightened anxiety, as she crouched down
at his knees and looked up into his gloomy .eyes.
“Not much, Clara,” he replied; in a tone of
affected carelessness—” not much—only that that
infernal Harrington has plucked me agaip.”
“You mean you have lost your money, dear ?”
she asked.
“ Just that—every penny of it.”
“ Never mind, dear,” she said’ soothingly, “ you
have got some to come from the Mirror of Fame
for that last story you wrote, apd I will try to
manage somehow.”
He Kissed her on the forehead In that' listless
manner in which men who have been married f.or
some years kiss tKfeir wives, and then rose and
walked up and down the room with his white
hands in his glossy hair.
After a few minutes of this inspiring exercise he
stopped suddenly, and taking her by the wrist, said
with sanguine glee, “ I have it—I’ll write a tragedy
for Drury Lane—if it succeeds it will pull us out of
all our difficulties, if it doesn’t n'importe; we shall
live, anyhow.
The rest of that night was spent in choosing a
title for the tragedy. At last they hi(, upon it. It
was “The Dicer’s Death.”
CHAPTER II.
The months passed by. And the Addisons had
removed to even cheaper lodgings. The lapse of
time had not made much change in the Captain’s
Dramatic Agent (reads): “ The distinguished success of Mr. Squawk as
Chorus of Distinguished Tragedians (out of work) : “Yah, Comic Opera again! While Genius has to go thirsty!”
outward appearance. His hair was as glossy, his
eyes as fine, though perhaps a little glassier, and
his hands as white, though not quite so steady, as
when we first saw him. And though their present
lodgings were modest to a degree, yet the stride of
the captain was as stately as ever when he passed
down the street. And he rang the cracked bell of
the lodging-house like a knight of old summoning
his castle-warden with blast of horn. But now,
inside his own apartments, he was a different be-
ing, Then the grand air gave place to a gloomy
taciturnity, varied by sudden burets of harsh and
dismal laughter. Sometimes, however, he
would come in humming a careless chanson
from the newest opera bouffe, as though he
were the gayest of the gay. On such occasions
there were more shakes m the music of the door-
bell, and the Captain’s step upon the stairs had a
less confident sound than usual. But these were
deceiving signs. He was never more confident
than at such times, and he would assure his wife,
with a flushed face and a simmering eye—which
peculiarities of appearance he explained to her
were proofs that the old lion was roused at last—
that he had the throat of fortune in his clutch, and
that the morrow’s sun would dawn upon a different
state of things from that to which they had been
accustomed of late. Then he would ask if there
was any beer in the house; for, sad to say, he had
inured himself to this plebeian drink, and, getting
it, he would sit down and talk a trifle thickly over
the domestic outlook: for, though he was, from
an abstract point of view, as superior ever, he
had come to take more interest in the department
of domestic supply. And when his eye was a film,
his hand an aspen-leaf, and his brain a cloudy
kaleidoscope, he would sit down to write his
tragedy. You see, another of his theories was that
he was never in such form for writing as when in
this condition. And, as there are so many writers
who hold this same theory, the Captain was pro-
bably correct. The filminess of the eye produces
Introspection by rendering outside objects indis-
tinct; the shakiness of the hand makes it a better
medium for conveying inspiration; and the con-
fused state of the brain enables the writer to catch
at fantastic combinations of ideas which elude him
when in a calmer state. As “ The Dicer’s Death ”
had, for the most part, been written at this mental
temperature, it could hardly help being a very
intense affair; and if fire and brimstone ensure
success—as in these days they generally do—the
gallant author had no reason to doubt of his play
being popular. Though working intermittently,
as genius always does, he had brought the tragedy
very near its dhwXement.
This was the difficulty. He could not decide
upon a conclusion that pleased him. He wanted
something tragic and yet unexpected: something
that would take the audience by complete surprise.
He thought and thought and thought over this,
but still he could not softie upon the climax.
And what of his wife ? There was considerable
change in her appearance. Her face was paler and
thinner, and her eyes bad lost half their bright
and beautiful vivacity. Her old merry-hearted-
ness only returned to her now by fits and flashes.
She actually appeared to bo fretting. Whenever
her husband noticed this—which was seldom now
—ho was annoyed. He hated above all things the
sight of a fretting woman. Why couldn’t she be
cheerful like other women ? This was an irritating
problem which ho could never solve. But, fortu-
nately for his peace of mind, it did not present
itself very frequently. Ho also had lost much of
his good nature. There was a time when her
caresses would have smoothed the wrinkles of care
from his brow; now they only wearied him. All
her loving devices and little purring ways, Instead
of lightening his gloom, only made it darker. He
was savage with himself, and as the marriage bond
had made them one, it followed naturally that he
was savage with her.
She saw this, and brooded over it; not bitterly,
but with that dumb sorrow of love which only the
heart of a fond woman can feel. She saw that her
husband was fast growing weary of her—and yet
she could never bring herself wholly to believe
that he could forget their old sweet courting days,
and the vow he had pledged to her under the
apple trees behind her dear old quiet home. No, it
must be that his troubles, and they were many,
were preying upon his mind. It was an unfeeling
world, she thought resentfully, that could have the
heart to trouble Charles. She would try and not
fret in future—at least, not while he was in the
house. Perhaps if she looked cheerful and tried to
amuse him he would bo as he used to be, again.
Poor Mrs. Addison!
The world did trouble Charles, and very much
trouble him, just then. You see, being a man of
spirit, he felt bound in honour to keep abreast of
his brother officers in all of their little amuse-
ments. And as gambling—in a mild and gentle-
manly way, of course—was one of these, why, of
course, the Captain gambled. If he had confined
himself to gambling with his brother officers,
however, he would not have been seriously hurt
in pocket, because gentlemen of the Army Con-
trol are not, as a rule, like those brilliant young
Croesuses of crack regiments, who consider their
gay as mere cigar-money. But, as he had an in-
orn taste for this sort of amusement, he did not
so confine himself. The consequence of this was,
of course, that the larger his circle of sporting
acquaintances became, the less chance he had of
winning. And so he lost; but lost like a prince.
Yet, as compensation, he gained the name of being
a very dashing fellow—which, from a financial
point of view, is another term for a man in a gal-
loping consumption.
Mrs. Addison had given up fretting. Now, when
her husband came home, her eyes had a strange
sparkle, and her face a fervid flush. As he had
taken to coming home continually with his own face
flushed, he did not give much thought to this
change in her appearance, especially as he found
her so much more amusing than she used to be.
In fact he began to discover that even in his most
soaring moments he could hardly follow the flight
I of her rapid fancy. Certainly, she did at times
talk a little wildly, but this only made her conver-
sation the more piquant. What a merry little
woman she had become to be sure!
And all the merrier was she when the Captain
began to have more money. For weeks he had
bad a most curious run of luck, and they began to
talk of taking a cottage ornee and keeping a pony-
chaise.
The tragedy was now nearly finished. It was
certainly very clever. The plot was so ingeniously
complex that no one could possibly guess what the
denouement would be. Even the author himself
was still in the dark about it. But he had asked a
literary friend to come on a certain morning a
week forward and read the play, and they would
then decide this question together.
Every succeeding night during the week preced-
ing the date of this appointment, the Captain came
home with a filmier eye and a fierier face. He was
no doubt trying to generate ideas, though it looked
almost as if he were trying to drown some trouble.
But troubles are like snakes—best preserved in
spirits; so it could not have been a trouble, for
his laugh was louder and more reckless than ever.
The morning came when the denouement of the
tragedy was to be decided upon. And with the
morning came the postman, whistling cheerily,
for Christmas was close at hand, and he was already
speculating upon the probable amount of Christ-
mas-boxes he would get. “ There,” said he, hand-
i ing a large letter headed “ on Her Majesty’s Scr-
| vice ” to the sma'l servant at the door, “ I ’spect
| there’s something good in that for the Cap’n, and
1 I hope he’ll not forget I brought it when Christmas
! comes round.” The girl handed the letter to Mrs.
I Addison, who danced up with it to her husband
and said, gleefully, holding it at arm’s length,
| “ Now, sir, what would you give to know what’s in
this she was right in thinking it important, for
official letters had never before been addressed to
the Captain’s private residence—“ I knew you’d get
what you deserved rt last. Won’t you be proud,
dear, when you’re a Major!’
“ Give it to me, Clara,” he said huskily.
“ But won’t you tell me what’s in it, Charles ?”
“Not just now, dear. I’m going upstairs. Don’t
disturb me until Cameron comes.”
Then ho kissed her twice on the forehead, and
went upstairs. About a couple of hours after,
Mr. Cameron arrived. Mrs. Addison tripped up to
her husband’s room, and, knocking at the door,
said merrily through the keyhole: “ Have you got
that tragedy finished ? If you haven’t, the denoue-
ment is waiting downstairs.”
No answer.
She knocked ag iin, and louder.
Still no answer.
“Poor dear! he has fallen asleep, I suppose,”
she said to herself, and then knocked once more—
this time vigorously enough to wake the Seven
Sleepers.
No response but a hollow echo of her knocking.
She began to get frightened, and called Mr.
Cameron.
He came upstairs, and tried the door.
It was locked.
“This is a queer joke,” he said, and with one
push of his broad shoulder buret the door open.
Their small sitting-room opened into the bed-
room. The Captain was not in the former, but
the table was the open official letter. 11 is w He read
it almost at a glance as she passed. It was •. hurt,
and to the point. Her husband had been cashiered
the Service for his last curious stroke of mck.
They burst into the next room.
The Captain was lying on i,ho tlooi in a pool of
blood, with a razor in his hand.
The Tragedy was finished.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
Cecile.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They lie who say that middle age
Is dull and, robbed of feeling-,
Through glasses reads Love’s tender page.
With blood congealing.
The frosty breath of Time has shed,
’Tis true, some sprigs of Autumn
On this my batter’d, bullet-head—
I have not sought ’em I
Ah, no, Cecilc! if middle-age
Is mine at—let’s say fifty—
’Tis that I scorn the equipage
Of youth unthrifty.
A boy is not a man, my dear;
Howe’er ho brags of plenty—
He tries to catch the coming year,
Who owns but twenty.
He who no more impatient thrums
On Life's closed window, wiser
By far has grown, and soon becomes
A sometime miser.
My long-loved friend, my own Cecile,
I swear your eyes are bluer
Than any eyes I used to feel
When taste was newer.
Your charming flgur; softly sways,
Your dress is rich and natt y ;
In singing you are past my praise,
And rival Patti.
No eager lover e’er admired
A comelier sweetheart’s graces;
Your face is everything desired—
The pearl of faces.
And like a clinging robe of light
Your brown curls trail ami > luster
About your forehead broad and white—
A veil of lustre.
And who can say how pure the heart
Which beats within your bodice ?
A mind where evil has no part—
Fit for a god ess.
Born comforter of man—the same
In drawing-room or wady;
In every fibre of your Iranic
A perfect lady.
How dark would be my earthly lot
Without you! I had rather—
But, bless me! I had quite forgot
I was your father.


Fosier ’s Bugle Brand.
G-aiet3T Hotel
CORNER CASTLEREAGH & BATHURST
STREETS, SYDNEY.
JAMES SHARP,
Late of the Collonnade Hotel, comer of King and
Castlereagh Streets, desires to Inform his friends
and the public generally, that he has removed to
the above Hotel, which has been lately known as
the “ Hyde Park Hotel,” and which ne has tho-
roughly renovated. J. S. trusts that, by his usual
strict attention to business, combined with the best
brands of Wines, Snirits, &o., to merit a fair share
of patronage. J. 8, desires to state that he still
draws the famous
“SILVER CUP BEER.”
33 COLLEGE STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
.. ARTIFICAL TEETH on the most approved Eng-
lish Principles, Kitted Painlessly, Perfect Maatica-
tion, Natural Appearance, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping, Scaling, and Extractions skilfully
performed.
JjA MA8COTTE consultations.
METROPOLITAN, & MELBOURNE CUP, 1883.
Metropolitan, 5000 shares at 10s. each ... £3500
Melbourne Cup, 10,000 shares at 10s. each £5000
SYDNEY.
Metropolitan Stakes.
1st Horse
2nd „
3rd „
Starters ..
Non-starters
Prize Gifts
MELBOURNE.
£3000
1000
500
200
300
1000
£5000
£2500
Prospectus on application.
The La Mascotte Company thanks the public foi
their support in previous consultations, and hopet
tor a continuance of their patronage for this pro-
gramme.
Application, by letter only.
Applicants please slate for which event.
D. LINDO,
Box 723, P.O. ;
And Eastway’s Hotel, King-street, Sydney.
CUP,
L*3(>«0 on MELBOURNE
W 1883.
The Third Consultation of my 1883 Series,
‘AUSTRALASIA” SWEEP.
12,000 Shares, at 5s each.—An even 4, £1.
First Horse .. £1000
Second Horse .. 500
Third Horse .. 250
Starters divide .. 150
Non-Starers .. 100
Total. £2000.
The success of former
Prizes at
£25—£250
10— 500
5— 350
£1000
Grand total, £3000
rc **«'• events induces me to an-
nounce the next on the Melbourne Cup, the
greatest racing event of the year, as above.
Results advertised in leading papers, and for-
warded to all subscribers. A pound secures four
chances-NOT one only. Ton per cent, is deducted
tor all expenses. Applicants arc requested to en-
close notes, P.O.O., or crossed cheques (to which
exchange must be added), and 4d. stamps for reply
and result. Register letters. p y
Address —“ AUSTRALASIA,”
Care of Mr, H. J. FRANKLIN,
Printer and Publisher,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
66
I)
M
O
N
D.‘
MELBOURNE CUP CONSULTATION 1883.
Capital £10,000 in 30,000 Shares of 10 shillings each
DISTRIBUTED AS FOLLOWS:
First Horse..
Second Horse
Third Horse
Starters divide
Non-starters
£3000
3000
1000
1000
500
3 Prizes of £250 each, £500
5 Prizes of 100 „ 500
10 Prizes of 60 „ 500
20 Prizes of 25 „ 500
50 Prizes of 10 „ 500
£10,000
Application by endosing stamp, to
Care of O. Schieblich,
Watchmaker and Jeweller,
17 Little Collins-street East, Melbourne,
(Near Colonial Bank.)
Prizes paid one day after drawing, and Horses
paid two days after event.
Result slips posted to each Subscriber, and also
advertised in daily and weekly papers. Shares sent
per return post. Prospectus on application.
Letters containing cash should bo registered.
If country cheques, must bear exchange.
. N.B.—“ Diamond,” in thanking numerous clients
for their support in previous successful racing
seasons, invites their co-operation in the above.
£3000
For 2s. (Id.
£3000
A COLOSSAL FORTUNE for LIALF-A-CROWN
The “GREAT VICTORY ” SWEEP on the MEL-
BOURNE CUP, 1883.
To be Run on the 6th November.
This Gigantic Sweep, offering advantages to the
public never before attempted, is the property of
a bovdfitU Company with responsible directors.
CAPITAL: £10,000, divided into 80,000 Shares of
2s. 6d. each.
Also, over 1000 Prizes guaranteed, and distributed
as follows:—
1st horse ..
2nd horse ..
3rd horse ..
Starters divide
Non-starters do
20 Prizes at £50
.. £3000
.. 1000
.. 500
.. 500
.. 250
1000
40 Prizes at £25 ..£1000
100 do. 10 .. 1000
300 do. 5 .. 1000
7o0 do. 1 .. 750
Total.
..£10,000
Not less
We shall send 9 tickets for a pound. Jt;BS
than 3 sent to any single address. Send P. O. order
cheques, or bank notes. If stamps are sent, add
exchange at the rate of Is. in the pound. Should
com be sent, register letter. Please send 3d. extra
for membership.
The drawing will take place on the 1st November,
and will be conducted by a committee of 150 Share-
holders drawn from the entire body. The result
will be posted to all Shareholders immediately
and advertised throughout the colonies.
Tickets sent by return post.
Write at once for prospectus. No charge.
Address—“ VICTORY,”
Care of George Robertson, 94 Bourke-street
Next Opera House, Melbourne.
Ingham’s
IPUPHORBIA %
M'lJlifer/I
k§ Queensland Cure JJ
Asthma, Bronchitis jjfM
WD, ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS.
WfflBRe ik'ra
D. & R. BRADFORD,
Ironfounders, General
Blacksmiths, &c.,
“CITY FOUNDRY,”
IS'" 121 LIVERPOOL STREET,
and at
201 ELIZABETH STREET,
Between Bathurst and Park Streets.
AH kinds of Ornamental Castings, Wrought Iron
Palisadings, Wrought and Cast Iron Girders, Cast
Iron Water Pipes, Connections, Water and Fire
Plugs.
Estimates given tor all kinds of Ironwork, &c.
K
IRKER, GREER, & CO., DISTILLERS
BELFAST and GLASGOW.
LOCH DHU, very oldest and purest Scotch
Whiskey.
SHAMROCK, very oldest and purest Irish
Whiskey.
Won i Gold Medals and Australian Exhibitions.
Government Analyst says: Unusually pure,
mellow, and well-matured.
FROM ALL SPIRIT MERCHANTS.
Agent: G. ADAMS,
119 Pitt-st., Sydney, and Flinders-st., Melbournne
“THE CRITERION,
15 Royal Arcade 15.
FIRST-CLASS LUNCHEON and REFRESHMENT
ROOMS for LADIES and GENTLEMEN.
The comfort of Ladies has been especially attended
to. An ELEGANTLY-FURNISHED APARTMENT
has been set aside for their sole use. It will be
supplied with writing materials, daily papers,
journals, &c., &c.
Gentlemen in town can obtain, AT ALL HOURS
COLD LUNCHEONS-Ham, Beef, Tongue, Sar-
dines, Salads, Hard-boiled Eg~s, &c., &c.
Cup of Tea or Coffee, with Light Refreshment,
6d.; equal in every respect to the celebrated
“CRITERION” BUFFET, LONDON.
Celebrated American Iced Drinks.
EDWARD MAWBY,
Proprietor.
BLEND
Imark)
TRADE
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.-This is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Solo
Agents.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TJ aa. deart ©Jsea:,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
JOHN BANKS,
IMPORTER OF
Dicycb aid Tricycles
AND ALL THE NECESSARY
Fittings for same,
363 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ASK FOR
Olfrfitghtonft Rllpgke^
LATE
JAMES WALKER
EDINBURGH
Ip\ r™f fj
*feg istered
mo be had from ALL WINE AND SPIRIT MEB-
X CHANTS, aud WHOLESALE from the
SOLE AGENTS:
JOSEPH BOYD & SON,
1 CHANGE ALLEY, PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Near the Circular Quay).
To bo procured in Cases, Casks, Octaves, and Jars
Please read Certificates of its purity : also.
Certificates from the 42nd Royal Highland Regi-
ment, “THE RLACK WATCH,” and the 71st High-
land 111 fa ntr >’> &c -> &c., as supplied them by
JAMES WALKER, for 14 years, till his death, and
still supplied to them by JAMES HADDOW & CO.,
the purchasers of James Walker’s business, with
the right to use his name on all Labels. Invoices*
Seals, and his Trade marks and symbols.
df Notice—The above label registered.
JOSEPH BOYD & SON,
WRIGHT, HEATON & GO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE :
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.S.W.:
Goulburn Wagga Wagga
Yass Hanging Rock
Bowning Culcairn
Binalong Cowabee
Harden Narandera
Young Hulong
Cootamundra Carrathool
Junoe Hay
Western District, N.S.W.:
Capertoo
Bathurst
Rlaynoy
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
Nevertire
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblin
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
Northern District, N.S.W.:
Morpeth
Gunnedah
arrahri
Walgott
Browarrlna
Tam worth
Uralla
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Line:
Brisbane Yeulba
Roma Cambooya
Daiby
Rockhampton
Bogantungau
Emerald
Townsville
Charters Towers
Central Line:
Capolla
Comet
Northern Line:
Ravenswood Junction
Agents in Victoria and South Australia;
WM. MCULLOCH & CO., LIMITED.
Agencies in all parts of the world.
UMBRELLAS
RECOVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY,
and
HavcyourUmbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-linod and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
cuted.
n
fjm
m
s.
*
i
.--r
— te
•=t
J;
w.
m
rr- :
m
m
t -j~
5>i~
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ys in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents fop
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
EXHIBI
m
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
Sole Agent lor
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &o.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STUFF'!.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
TO CONNOISEURS of WHISKEY & BRANDY.
W. & A, Giiley’s CASTLE BRAND WHIS-
KAS Y and L’OR EXTRAIT BRANDY are the
oldest and purest spirits imported.
TUCKER & CO., Agents,
377 Goorge-street.
HUST’S BOOT EMPORIUM, 404 George St.,
near King-street.
Gents’ Boots, French Calf or Kid, superior quality,
from 10s. 6d.
Superior Ladies’ Extra High Glace Kid Button
Boots, superior quality, from 10s. 6d.
Ladles’ Evening Shoes, a great variety, from 4s. 6d.
ELBOURNE CUT, 1883
LEVIATHAN “ADAMASTOR” COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £20,000 in 40,000 SHARES of 10s Each.
624 PRIZES (more or less), £12,750 for STARS,
and £7250 for HORSES.
Plan of Astronomical Distribution:
First Horse (winner of the Melbourne Cup)... £3000
Second Horse innn
Third Horse ] ; 750
Starters (divide) " goo
Non-starters (do) ” 1200
*** First Star £2000 *±*
♦** Second Star .. 1000 *!*
**♦ Third Star 500 ***
12 stars of £200 each, 100 stars of £100 each, 20
stars of £50 each, 20 stars of £40 each, 45 stars of £25
Meh, 100 towns of £10 each, 200 towns of £8 each.
85 towns of £6 each, and “ the comet ” £40.
“ Adamastor,” in thanking his subscribers for the
liberal support that he has received from them for
the past three years, and in consequence of the
yearly increase of subscribers, linds it necessary to
double his programme, which he begs herewith to
submit.
All parties are requested to forward drafts, P.O.
orders, or cheques; if cheques, exchange must be
added, and in all cases postage fees; if cash, to
register letter. Application by letter only, ad-
dressed—
“ADAMASTOR,” care of L. A. Pereira, 34
Bourke-street, west, Melbourne; Box 473, G P O
Sydney; and Little’s Bass Hotel, corner Pitt and
Market Streets, Sydney.
P.S.—Results sent to country shareholders, and
published in The Australasian, Age, and Sydney
Town and Country.


He was travelling by steamer between
Sydney and Melbourne. The sea was rough, and
he stayed below. In the adjoining berth were a
pair of turtle doves on their honeymoon trip, and,
though he wasn’t a moan man, the partition was
so thin that ho really couldn’t help hearing. And
this is what ho heard. Female dove: “Ge-orge—
ugh—u-u-ugh—de-ar George—I didn’t think —
when we wore mar-mar-married this morning you
would leave mo to suf-suffer like this—(George
groans pectori ah imo)— think what I have thrown
up for you—I have thrown up father, mother,
brothers, sisters, in fact, I am throwing up—all for
you.” George: “ My dear—you can’t have thrown
up—more than 1 have.” Wo have hoard this story
3000 years ago, but it’s still good. Almost as good,
in fact, as Punch’s (not Sydney Punch, mind you*
“ Kiss me, darling, I’m going to bo sick.”
During the trial of the girl Griffin for
forgery at Melbourne, Mr. Purves calle'-l tbat
venerable fossil, Professor M‘Coy, “ a gay 9k!
spark,” and charged him with “ philandering ” with
the accused. It was apropos of this, and of a
variety of other things, that, the other evening, in
the Victorian Parliament, Sir Charles M'Mahon
made what the Argos calls “ a somewhat eccentric
speech.” The deliberate plunder, he said, which
had marked the conduct of the actions for com-
pensation brought against the Government in re-
spect to railway accidents should open people’s
eyes to the necessity of a thorough legal reform,
what was the use of erecting magnificent courts
(the new Melbourne Law Courts have cost £350,000!)
when citizens wore frightened from entering them
because of the filthy, dirty insinuations to which
they are exposed ? It was time that citizens were
rescued from the gross insults of paid liars—men
paid to state what they knew to be untrue, and
who, to heighten their own reputation and increase
their fees, insulted men whom they know to bo
honest, and disgraced women whom they know to
be good.
Lord Randolph Churchill, having indig-
nantly asked in his speech against the Allirmation
Bill, “are wo to alter the law for the sake of one
man ” (Bradlaugh), got a crushing retort from the
press, which, while showing that it was the prin-
ciple, and not the man Bradlaugh, which the House
was invited to recognise, laws had been altered for
one man in very objectionable instances “ We
have already altered the law for one man—only he
was a peer, and illegitimate as the son of a de-
ceased wife’s sister: and the law was barred by a
special Act of Parliament to enable him to succeed
and become a hereditary legislator. In this very
Parliament a special Act was passed to indemnify
another peer, who was found to have voted with-
out taking the oath. For another instance, in the
interests of that choice specimen of the aristo-
cracy, Lord Aylesford, entails have been cut off,
estates have been disentailed by statute, and es-
tates have been settled contrary to the principles
of law and equity.”
When the Russians were knocking at the
gates of Constantinople, or at least within sight of
St. Sophia, a few years ago, the Sultan granted a
constitution to his subjects. What he expected to
gain by this move has never been satisfactorily
explained. On the assembling of the first Parlia-
ment (and last) the members all crowded to the
Government side. The idea of an “Opposition”
never entered their heads, which is scarcely to be
wondered at, considering how opposition had al-
ways been met in His Majesty’s dominions. Some-
thing like the appearance of the first Ottoman
“ corrobboree ” is now presented by the Melbourne
Assembly. The Government benches are over-
flowing with the ad joining territories, while the ap- '
poaranco of the “Opposition” would touch any
but the most callous heart. MTntyre, the member
for Maldon, leads it. He is a pushing, enterprising,
wide-awake Scot, who never tires of looking after
the public interests—and his own. You’d need to
get up a long time before daylight—stay up all
night, in fact—before you could wipe Mac’s eye.
But the work before him now is even stiffer than
Eotting men with scrip, or starting tramways,
ike Disraeli, he has to “educate" his party, if it
is right to call by that name the disconsolate few
who charge under his baton. His chief hope, how-
ever, lies in wholesale desertion from the enemy.
So far, this hope appears visionary, but nous ver-
rons.
Even Grafton has not escaped. Some of
the peculiarities of human nature appear to have
reached there at hist. A Western poet informeu us
some years ago that when Pharoah’s daughter and
her maids found young Moses (pity she didn’t leave
him there), the princess
“ Took him up, and said in accents mild,
Tear-an-ages, girls, which o’ yees owns the
child?”
Now, now you see what we arc driving at In this
Grafton business. There was a child in the case,
and a young man was bi-ought up for knowing
more about it than he cared to tell. This, you will
say, is an everyday occurrence, and causes no sur-
prise. No doubt it is, but there are two circum-
stances, one on eacu side of it, which make it
really peculiar. The lirst is, that all the male wit-
nesses swore it was the wrong man, and all the
female that it was the right one. The secopd and
more singular is that the women wore not believed
this time, and the men were, so the case was dis-
missed. Wo are not sorry ; for the ease with which
ladies have hitherto been enabled to pass off their
mishaps on some of the most respectable and re-
ligious men in the community has been distress-
ing. But we really are sorry for one circumstance.
There was enough hard swearing—real downright
“ you’re another ” testimony—to do credit to the
Water Police Court. We never thought this had
reached Grafton ; but, bless you, we live fast in
these days.
From “ Live la Idleness,” by three Oxford
men, we extract a monologue cVoutre toinhe (Dar-
win loquitur), in that peculiar old French verse
arrangement called pantoum wherein we read;—
The worms are what I have been.
I shall change, but what of that ?
The grass will grow more green,
The parson’s sheep more fat.
I shall change, but what of that ?
All flesh is grass, one saya.
The parson’s sheep grow fat.
The parson grows in grace.
This parson eats his own sheep; erqo, he eats Dar-
win, who can say: “I am the grace he grows,” On
this fare he prospers—
One day he’ll be bishop or dean,
One of those science-haters.
One day I shall preach to the Queen —
To think of my going In gaiters
And wearing a shovel-hat.
Truly a marvellous transmigration—scarcely of
souls, however.
Driver Stuart: Let him get out. it’s a steepish pinch, and we don’t want any dead-weight
