

The Bulletin
NEW SERKS
fgs
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS.
ijj/
v ’feaa
HAYMARKET, ONLY. SYDNEY
Largest, Cheapest, aid Most Popular Drapery Establishment
SOTJTIZ or THE I LI^TE.
Over Seven Tliousand Visitors XDa,ll3r!
It cannot be too widely known tbat we are the Largest Importers of
Gutlerjr, Crockery, Beady-male Ming, loots asd Slots, lots d Cofi,
FURNITURE, BEDSTEADS AND BEDDING.
WB AEL I7ITIVEESAL PEOVIDEES
ilst
feeling most grateful for the very large share of Public Patronage accorded to ns in the past, we desire to assure cur
\ friends that we shall in the future endeavour to merit a continuance of their favour.
*6 h
1) een a l wa y s -^- OST Successful in Placing before the Public the Latest and Most Pashionable Novelties in each cf
apartments, from all the Markets of the World, a success we are quite confident of being able to maintain, and tics
hope to secure a Still Greater Share of the support of the population of New South Wales.
Please SiTote ©-u.x Address:
:r
r
1
1
Sk\Vi
mm
L PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET (ONLY).


Abraham's Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favourite remedy. We all suffer more
or less from liver oomplaint, thereby hindering
other organs from, fulfilling their functions. Set
the liver in order by taking the above remedy, and
heart, lungs, brafc, and stomach will unite in
graceful chorus.
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The true invigorator. If your vital forces are
depressed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of coming
disaster, your liver is unequal to its work. To
obviate all these symptoms there is no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABRAHAM'S PILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion of
the maladies and ailments attacking the human
frame are really due to a disordered liver. Set this
organ in order and health returns as if by magic.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are imitations, ask for ABRAHAM’S
PILLS. See that each box, by whomsoever sold,
bears the inventor’s name and trade mark. The
Laboratory,
434 George Street, Sydney.
MONEY LOANS GRANTED at moderate inte-
rest on Furniture (without possession),
Deeds, Bonds, Certificates, Shares, or other Secu-
rities, payable to suit convenience.
No Deduction made from amount Required,
which will be paid in full within twelve hours of
application.
MONT DE PIETE CENTRAL LOAN OFFICE,
98 Castlreagh Street,
One door South of Bang Street.
WORKING CLASSES,
GENERATE YOUR OWN GAS.
Apply to
D. KEELY AND CO.,
71 Goulburn-street, Sydney.
Dealers in Portable Gas, GasaUers, Lamps, and
Fluid. Comfort, Economy, and Safety.
Mr. Keely, on behalf of the Patent Portable Gas
Co., had charge of the lighting of the hall and
supper rooms at the Hay Demonstration, and the
lighting of Croydon Station. He undertakes to
teach his customers in three minutes the mode of
lighting.
A liberal discount will be given to storekeepers
on remittances per orders, and goods forwarded
With quick despatch. Orders and remittances to
be sent to the above address. No orders attended
to without remittance.
LIST OF PRICES:
4 Light G asalier 70s
3 do do .. i 50s
2 do do ~ .... .. 35s to 45s
Wall bracket lamp, burn 1(5 hours.. 17s 0d
do do 9 do• .. 15s
Table lamps, 2 branch tJOs
do 1 do 45s
Brass Brackets 40s
All Globes and Fittings .. .. 5s extra
Fluid, in cases, 8 gal .. .. .. 2s Gel per gal.
1 gal. fluid gives a light equal to 12s worth kero-
sene. Instructions as to the mode of lighting sent
to clients with despatch of goods.
Goods sent to all parts of the Colonies.
EVERY DESCRIPTION OF FISHING TACKLE,
Wholesale and Retail.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE STREET.
Y. E. ANGLE’S
(Late of 31 Market-street),
Fashionable Tailoring Establishment
636 GEORGE STREET,
Brickfield Hill.
A large and well-assorted stock of Tweeds and
Coatings, direct from the manufacturers, always
on hand.
All Garments Cut In the most Fashionable Styles.
PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
Note the Address-
-636 George St., Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY.
ERNEST CARTER,
Wardell Saw and Planing Mills,
RICHMOND RIVER.
All Timber is thoroughly seasoned before it
leaves these Mills, and is very light for carriage
up-country, and fit for immediate use.
PINE, CEDAR, BEECH, FLOORING, LINING.
Mouldings, Architraves. The Trade only Supplied.
MOULTON’S
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON’S
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and no
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relievo distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
fcnown, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit).
They are as nearly perfect as it is passible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price Is. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
BULL & ADRIAN,
Merchant Tailors,
9
SO
SAY
ALL
OF
US
470 G-eorge-street, opposite the Markets,
SYDNEY.
Atlas Foundry & Engineer-
ing Company,
HAY STREET SYDNEY.
Engineers, Boilermakers and Shipbuilders,
Iron and Brassfounders, Coppersmiths and
Millwrights.
The above firm are prepared to undertake con-
tracts for the manufacture of Marine and Station-
ary Engines, Boilers, and Girder Work, Quartz-
crushing, Sawmill, Sheep-washing, Mining, Sugar-
mills, and all other descriptions or Machinery, with
latest improvements.
N. ft.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for metal.
No. 17 ROYAL ARCADE.
MR. DAYID DUNK,
(Of Paddington)
Begs to inform his old customers and public gener-
ally that he has opened a branch of his FRUITER-
ERS’ ESTABLISHMENT at
No. 17 ROYAL ARCADE.
His great experience, viz., 20 years, is a guarantee
of his ability to excel all others. Remember the
address—
-17 ROYAL ARCADE, and
451 South Head Road, Paddington.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S ..
Old. 2v£a,tVLred.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottled in bond for Export at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, therefore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ Whiskey Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE
COFFEE PALACE,
231 GEORGE STREET NORTH.
JOHN JOHNSON, Proprietor.
HAYING opened the above, the Proprietor has
supplied a want long felt in Sydney. The
first floor contains spacious Ladies and Gentle-
men’s Dining and Drawing Rooms, also Suites and
Single Bedrooms (viz., 45 bedrooms), will be open
shortly. A trial solicited.
CALL AND INSPECT.
THOMAS MUNRO,
er* HERALDIC ARTIST AND ENGRAVER,
PLAIN AND FANCY STATIONER,
10 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
A Large and varied assortment of Letter Books,
Account Books, and all office requisites. Purses,
Albums, Plush Bags, and Reticules; Artists’ Mate-
rials, Photo, and Picture Frames, Illuminated
Scripture and other texts. Birthday, Condolence,
and Memorial Cards.
Agent for August Huenerbein for Pianos, Or-
gans, and Music. The Engraving workshop being
under my own management, I feel confident in
suiting the public taste.
T SIMPSON,
** * IRONFOUNDER, &C.
Camperdown Foundry,
Lambert-street, Camperdown, West Sydney,
Manufactures all kinds of ornamental Palisading,
Frieze, Fringe, and Brackets, Plain and Fluted
Columns, Window Mullions, Colonial Oven Grates,
and General Castings.
551'"' N.B.—Orders from the country punctual
1 forwarded by road, rail, or watt
attended to, and:
dfg
MRS.
NO. 161 KING STREET
(Near Tramway).—
Madame Weigel’s PAPER
PATTERNS, cut in 12 sizes,
for Ladies and children.
Prices from Gd. to 25.. Wei-
gel’s Journal of Fashion, 7d.
Catalogue of Fashions, 3d.
Note the Address:—MA-
DAME WEIGEL, 161 King-
st. (near Tramway) Sydney.
” Agent in Chippendale:
BEALES, Regent-street, near Public Schools.
The federal bank of Australia
(Limited)
Incorporated under Act of Parliament.
CAPITAL, £lOOO,OOO ; SUBSCRIBED, £6C5,000.
Directors •
The Hon. W. A. Brodribb, M.L.C., Chairman.
"W. H. Eldred, Esq., J.P.
Robert Hudson, Esq.
F. T. Humphery, Esq.
_ M.P.. _
I J. Y. Mills, Esq., J.P.
Manager ; F. S. Macdermott.
Accountant: John Docker.
Solicitors : Messrs. Robertson, Fisher, and Ralfe.
Temporary Banking- House, 257 George-street,
North, with branch at the Haymarket.
Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies
and in Europe.
Highest rates of interest given on Deposits, and
all usual Banking business transacted without
delay to customers.
F. S. MACDERMOTT, Manager.
W. H. Ariell and Co.’s Agencies.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, Canter-
bury, Normanby, and Christmas Family Cakes,
Plum Puddings, Mincemeat, Self-raising
./Erated Flour, Infant’s Food, Treacle and
Golden Syrup.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS.—Superior Victorian Oat-
meal and Pearl Barley.
DILLON & BURROWS’ prize assorted Confec-
tionery.
J. KITCHEN & SONS, No. 1 Mottled and Toilet
Soaps.
J. F. M'KEJIZTE & CO.’S Coffee, Mustard, Cocoa,
Tea, in % lb. and Hb. packets ; dressed Rice,
and Patent Groats.
HUNT & CO.’S Prize Hiking Powders, Adelaide
Jams l Paper Bags, Sts.
343 and 345 KENT-STREKT, SYDNEY.
Coolalta Wine, Bodega,
MORT’S PASSAGE, back of Messrs. W. H.
Paling and Co.’s.
Choicest Wines, by the glass or bottle, maybe had
at the Bodega. Hot Spiced Wines during winter.
Open from 9 a.m. till 6 p.m.
DANCING.— Prof. WEST’S Classes. Private
Lessons, Monday and Thursday mornings;
afternoon classes, Thursdays. Evening: Beginners,
Mondays, 8 p.m.; Thursdays, 7.30 p.m.; Advanced,
8.30 p.m., at Tattersall’s New Hall, Hunter-street.
Second term now commencing. During present
school holidays there will be time for private
lessons in new waltz, &e. 251 Elizabeth-street.
83P° The Dancing Academy being the largest in
Sydney, there are now vacancies, quarter dating
from entrance.
SHOUT HOKN
WHISKY.
sdf
SHOUT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON.-The
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
THE HARWOOD
Fibre Chair Seating,
Possessing all the qualities of a perfect seat, viz. :
Strength, Durability, Ease, Beauty, Cleanliness
and Cheapness.
THIS CHAIR SEAT is made from the strongest
known fibres and a perfectly waterproof
cement, and after fifteen years’ constant use, we
ean speak positively as to its merits. It cannot
split or check, neither will exposure to sun or rain
affect it.
Awarded G old Medal at the late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
For RE-SEATING it is unrivalled. In every
house, store and office, are chairs with seats broken.
Any person can re-seat and make as good as new a
chair that is otherwise worthless, at a very trifling
expense.
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE FOR HOME USE.
Agents Wanted in Every District.
From £3 to £6 a week can be made by any smart
man or boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
82 CLARENCE STREET.
T
O BE DISPOSED OF BY SUB-
SCRIPTION
on the
ART UNION PRINCIPLE,
£15,000
Pounds worth of
Freehold Properties.
£15,000
In 15,000 Shares of £1 Each
Ist Prize, £Booo—Hardwicke Estate, Yass, N.S.W.,
2700 Acres.
2nd Prize, £3OOO, Farm, 800 Acres, near Gunning,
N.S.W.
3rd Prize, £2OOO, “ St. Kilda House,” Goulburn, 15
Rooms (insured £1000).
4th Prize, £BOO, “ Two-storied House ” in Clifford-
street, Goulburn.
sth Prize, £4OO
6th Prize, £l5O
7th Prize, £l3O
Bth Prize, £l2O
9th Prize, £B5
10th Prize, £75
11th Prize, £75
12th Prize, £75
13th Prize, £75
14th Prize, £25
15th Prize, £25
16th Prize, £25
The following gentlemen have consented to act as
Committee
J. T. GANNON Esq., M.L.A., Goulburn.
JOHN BADGER Y, Esq., Sutton Forest.
A. M. BETTS, Esq., Solicitor, Goulburn.
R. C. COOPER, Esq., Willeroo, Lake George.
JOHN DAVIDSON, Esq., Solicitor, Goulburn.
S. EMANUEL, Esq., J.P., Goulburn.
S. MEYER, Esq., J.P., Goulburn.
The DRAWING will take place in the Mechanics’
Institute, Goulburn, in the presence of the Com-
mittee, on 30tli August next, and will be open to
the Shareholders.
For particulars see Prospectus, whioh may be
had upon application to J. J. ROBERTS, Secre-
tary, Box 33, Post-office, Goulburn. Local Agents
will be appointed in most of the principal Towns of
N.S.W.
Send Stamp for Prospectus.
THE AUSTRALIAN
Diamond Drill Compa ll
CONTRACTS will be undertaken by the»
Company to bore any sized holes, vel
horizontal, up to -n
3 INCHES, OR LARGER IP MQIhN®
to any depth, at a reduction of 25 P®
BELOW ANY PREVIOUS CHAB«»
The Company, in all cases, will find
fuel and water for drilling purposes, ana M
no charge for loss of diamonds or wear an ■■
plant, and will also provide workmen enjpo.
0 r The new duplex barrel, introduced«
colony by Mr. J. Coghlan, will be usea ,
charge to persons searching for minerals j
Mr. Coglan has every conildence, fro®'j
tical knowledge of the Diamond Drill,
be able to give general satisfaction, as W® l
despatch to all orders addressed to the
Temporary Offices, 311 George-stree
JOHN COGHLAN,
General Manager, P l "'
i.tft
Singer’s Sewing BMachia*
TURMER & CO
Are the Recognised Agents of
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTIJBD
TIME PAYMENTS:
2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week— 2s. 6d. P 1
And no interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
US” BEWARE OP IMITATIONS-
<• siN^
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE
)MPAN
363 Georg'
TURNER & COMPANY,
THE ONLY “SINGER.”
Turner and Compaq
BT OPPOSITE GENERAL POST OD
The Mercantile Bank of
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARLIAME^'
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund *!««
Directors :
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G.,
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
Auditors:
Jus. Scroggie, Esq.
Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq.
Manager:
P. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches:
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, GiraW 1 "
Gosford, Nyngan, and Bourke.
London Bankers: „
The National Provincial Bank of L n ® fl t
London Office: 158 Leadenhall-sfi®
Director: Edward Chapman, E®9'
Agent: G. H. Alexander, Esq-
This bank transacts all usual Banking ®&stf
cial Agency Business on the most f avourtw
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made ag“* giilt
and other produce shipped to England I°' ' )
J. MASSEY & SO
ID Park Street?
A?
IMPO^
of
HI
f (
v ar(^-
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT
VA^
The Latest, most Popular Music h J
S#
10
J. MASSEY & SON,
PARK STREET, SYD
Pianos! Pianos! Pi alJ
EREE TRADE and NO MONOP
00'
. M ott °
Live and Let Live, these are Our •«*“ a
It is a well-known fact that the Fob’J
>een ID,
Colossal Fortunes have been
Profits arising from the SALE OF PiAb
City during the past Twenty Year®
having little or no knowledge of the o^jfyla
- ' , PionnWo While h
;•••
and Details of the Pianoforte. While "p ;«
Public the benefit of our Mr. YounS “ jiM
personal practical experience (5 m 1
Broadwood and Sons, London, and 2d
we will, at the same time, be satisfied , g( wq
percentage on the Co-operative PrinOm,i
the Profits with our Customers. We^Agii'
25 per cent, less than the same class ox A, wj
can be Purchased at any Music Shop
and we will offer nothing for Sale
guai-antee. American Organs at
low prices. Also a Large Stock of xv
bratod Austrian Furniture, a sinkte
which we are selling at Wholesale Pi' lo V
Come and See Our LITTLE
nut and Full Iron Frame, at £25
£lO more, or under a Liberal Time
tem -
George E. Young an®
285 PITT STB
South of Royal Arcade^
B
IMUN’S WALTHAM
TOOK FIRST PMZE j,!#
And all the Gold Medals at every
MADE ESPECIALLY P°
B. BRAUN, n Jt>
Watchmaker, Jeweller, &
j 5
376 GEORGE ST 11
Near the Post Office.
The Largest Stock o • V altham Watch 6 ’
500 in select from-
Silver Walt ;ams from SoyiA, g ,
Gold Walthams from £8
Warranted from two to seve 0P
I®" Only at B. BRA UN, 376 ocor*


BOOT EMPORIUM, 404 George St.,
near King-street.
fr°m°io^ ,^ re nch Calf or Kid, superior quality,
. ’files’ Extra High Glace Kid Button
l %p;®“P en or quality, from 10s. 6d.
« enmg Shoes, a great variety, from 4s. 6d.
EURE
LKA A
l?ke Eureka Tobacco
the paragon op perfection.
■L Biner than the Finest.
2® Tobacco of the &ge
r BH To ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
. onl ALL OTHER BRANDS.
obaeco combining Excellence of Qualit;
with Economy in Price.
lig* ,BEUG is STAMPED with the word
Sea ° other “ mokors see that you obtain it.
manufactured by
J’s Toluco Co., Um.
w AT t he eagle works,
AND CLARENCE STREETS,
e obtained wholesale at their Warehouse,
S«U
Park-street, Sydney.
where, and will be used by every-
-08 soon as its merits become known.
% tea . EHREKA tobacco,
r ct then, ding to Act of Parliament, to pro-
ti 0ll g_ lic against spurious and worthless
A BENT FOR BLACKMER’S patent
electric signs.
'^•Willoughby,
GENERAL electrician,
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY,
' ifhj, A AND AT LONDON,
CTtJRER ’ IMPORTER & FITTER
Uriirjf Bolls, Batteries, Indicators, Insulated
'r!.\ ecl Patent Fire and Burglar Alarms,
jj Jhr-r o r ,n es ’ Lightning Conductors, Medical
Electro-Magnetic Machines, Elec-
jjAating, Gilding and Plating Material,
~A? t Apparatus on the latest and most
. r Ulci fues now in use in London,Paris, &c.
%of ra l Discount to the Trade.
description of Electrical Appa-
tl ° n the most favourable terms.
s submitted Free of Cost.
AND
mm
rMI.
Ail CHEST AFFECTIONS
•IH A. FT ,H -Jt
JS
s
W 3&
MANGLES,
"WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn shellers
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
&e. &c. &c.
16 George street.
C* «• BRADFORD,
Raders, General
!l( 'ksmit]is, &c.,
FOUNDRY,”
) the rising township of Wagga,
at M*? bake ky _ busiN ess. Good
vUIIIIUGIIUIR i" •" GUvdpj
Bor* out to leave the district. Ap-
t Office, Wagga Wagga.
kt
OOL STREET,
20j and at
\ Xj^a -bet;i street
A. aud Park .S- A.
' Castings, Wrought Iron
l heg K 9t and Cn t Iron Girders, Cast
Connect;., its, Water and Fire
s
«V 6
° r u< iinda of Ironwork, <so.
m
■ “.-c
aSafe**
‘ u t:~
m
m
VIRTUTIS GLORIA MERGES.'.
COALCLIFF COAL.
This NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY supplies the CHEAPEST, CLEANEST, and
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony,
£1 per Ton net, delivered within city bounds.
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and bars'kept well free from ash, makes a stronger,
more lasting, and cleaner fire that any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky flare and soot of
Newcastle coal, nor does it splinter and fly off like the Western, but it affords that domestic desideratum
of some kinds of English coal of heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a
charcoal or breeze fire, while it imparts to the steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwhole-
some fumes given off by a breeze or gas fire.
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
Office : A. B. BLACK, 247 George Street.
t&- DEPOT : WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
v ,
4
: ■
An Art Criticism.
“ Now then, father, let your eye wander off over this vast waste of water.”
Heavy Father “ Waste of water! yes, and waste of paint and oil and canvas and
time. My son, the hack yard wants turfing, go to work at something useful.”
Hydropathic Bathing Establishment,
Corner of College & Oxford Sts., Hyde Park.
Q-_ 2v£a,c3seixzle and Co,,
(Late with BATT, RODD, and PURVES)
AUCTIONEERS, BROKERS, FINANCIERS, GENERAL AGENTS, VALUATORS, &c.,
MINERVA CHAMBERS,
126 PITT STREET.
A CUP OP GOOD COFFEE
IS WHAT YOU WANT, BUT SELDOM GET.
jy THEN ASK YOUR GROCER OR STOREKEEPER FOR
A. G. Churchwooa’s Crvwn Brand
BLENDED FROM THE FINEST MOCHA, JAMAICA, and CKYLON BERRIES
y-MiN
Sb!^chinerv
CHAMPION
/ —v
ENGINES
AND
THRfSfIK
\m
mius
r LSUR
MIUS
B
if-
FLEMING’S Carriage and Machinery Repository
22 and 23 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Hotel
CORNER CASTLEREAGH & BATHURST
STREETS, SYDNEY.
JAMES SHARP,
Late of the Collonnade Hotel, corner of King; and
Castlereagh Streets, desires to inform his friends
and the public generally, that he has removed to
the above Hotel, which has been lately known as
the “Hyde Park Hotel,” and which he has tho-
roughly renovated. J. S. trusts that, by his usual
strict attention to business, combined with the best
brands of Wines, Spirits, &c., to merit a fair share
of patronage. J. S. desires to state that he still
draws the famous
“SILVER CUP BEER.”
A. A. DEBNEY & CO.,
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
PORTMANTEAUX, BAGS,
jar* TRUNKS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
A. A. DEBNEY & CO.,
Have just opened a large Shipment of Superior
MERCERY, SCARFS,TIES,
COLLARS, and EVERY REQUISITE
FOR GENTLEMEN’S TOILETS.
SHIRTS
Cut after the Latest London Styles, by an expe?"
rienced London Cutter.
N.B.—Country Orders receive Special Attention.
A. A. DEBNEY & CO.,
Successors to Hobson and Whiting,
13 HUNTER STREET.
The Apollo Company, Lim.,
PYRMONT, SYDNEY.
Directors *
JOHN KEEP, Esq. | R. T. REMINGTON, ESQ.
GEORGE TURNER—MANAGER.
£39” Office—34B George Street, Sydney.
Manufacturers of
The Celeorated APOLLO STEARINE CANDLES,
OLEIN, HOUSEHOLD & FANCY SOAPS,
GLYCERINE (Crude and Refined.)
Prize Medals :
PARIS,
PHILADELPHIA
Sydney,
and
MELBOURNE.
11l
SPORTING CAR’I
Harness, &e., Builder to H.M. the Queen, H.1.Ml
the Empress of Austria, His Grace the Duke
of Beaufort, &c., &e. Orders telegraphed (305.)
and executed in seven weeks. 1 English prices.
Coloured designs of latest fashions kept in stock.
WILKINSON, WILLIAMS & CO„
Royle’s Chambers, Bond Street, Sydney,
Sole Agents for Australia, New Zealand, Tasmania.
L
32 COLLEGE STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
ARTIFICAL TEETH on the most approved Eng-
lisKPrineiples, Fitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastica-
tion, Natural Appearance, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping, Scaling, and Extractions skilfully
performed.


THEj
Gkrea/t
CENTRE
OF THE
■'.'■'l'*
SMS
OF SYDNEY
IS
JO
TJIVTER’
*Ot
Tlic wants of the whole community are here supplied in a manner not hitherto attempted in this colony. Fashion and Pract^
Value, combined with the Lowest Prices ranging in the Australian Colonies.
EVERYBODY IS INVITED TO TEST THE TRUTH OF THIS STATEMENT.
The Newest Styles and the Best Makes, combined with a Saving of 7s. 6(3. in the £.
JOHN HTJNTEE’S CITY BOOT PALACE is supplied direct from the London and Parisian Houses, and an enormous busing
likewise done in the best description of Colonial Goods. Bemember, that at Hunter’s City Boot Palace first commenced the
Fall in the Price of Boots and Shoes/resulting in a larger business being done at the City Boot Palace than at ony other hous e
Australia. , (
Note this Great Fact! 7s. 6d. in the £ Saved at Hunter’s City Boot Palace.
Large Fresh Supplies of Women’s and Children’s Boots at a Great Eeduction in Price.
Ladies’ Fashionable Walking Boots, Ball-room Boots, &c., in a style not previously seen in Sydney.
Splendid Line of Gentlemen’s English Sewn Boots, at London
Ladies ordering from any part of the colony will meet with immediate attention. A saving of about 10s. in the £ will thus be
3,:ei.cL TXT"
Have recently opened large shipments of their now celebrated brand of
Standard Ready-made Clothing.
These Goods are All Wool, and tho cut, fit, and workmanship is not to be exoelled anywhere 1
“STANDARD” TWEED SUITS, THIRTY-FIVE SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
PEAPES and SHAW’S, GEORGE STREET.
“STANDARD ” TWEED SUITS, THIRTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
PEAPES and SHAW’S, GEORGE STREET.
“STANDARD” TWEED SUITS, TWO GUINEAS.
PEAPES and SHAW’S, GEORGE STREET.
“STANDARD ” TWEED SUITS, FORTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
PEAPES and SHAW’S, GEORGE STREET.
“STANDARD ” TWEED SUITS, FIFTY SHILLINGS.
PEAPES and SHAW’S, GEORGE STREET.
NOTE-
PATTERNS of the Tweeds in each price quoted forward on application, together with
instructions for self-measurement, post free.
OVERCOATS FOR WINTER, in light, medium, and heavy textures, 255, 30s, 355.
OVERCOATS, CUT SPECIALLY , EXTRA LENGTHS, and exceptionally well finished, 425,
45s 50s
SCOTCH TWEED ULSTERS, LINED WOOL, 30s, 355, 425, 455, 50s.
G ENT.’S DRESSING GOWNS, in Scotch Knickerbocker Felt Wool, and Paisley, in great
variety.
NEW RAILWAY RUGS in Wool, Plain and Fancy Seal, extra sizes, from 15s 6d upwards.
A MAGNIFICENT SHIPMENT OF BAGS.
GLADSTONE’S IN BUFF AND ENAMELLED HIDE
THE EXCELSIOR BRIEF BAG
THE BEACONSFIELD, and a variety of other shapes
Portmanteaus and Overland Trunks, in all sizes.
CHRISTY’S HATS, CHRISTY’S HATS, CHRISTY’S HATS,
ALL THE NEWEST AND LATEST LONDON SHAPES,
In Black Silk, Drao Snell, Hard Felts.
Travelling Hats and Caps, in great variety.
THE TURKISH FEZ. THE TURKISH FEZ.
PEAPES & SHAW, George-street. PEAPES & SHAW, George-street.
Meinrath’s
SHIRTS.
MEINEATH’S SHIRTS.
96 King Street, Only.
•SIEHIHS SMI lL V il \ !’A IV
Meinrath’s
SHIRTS.
The Sydney and London Fine Art Company,
34:0 Q-eorgre Street
(UNDER FREEMAN’S STUDIO),
Have OPENED NEW and EXTENSIVE PREMISES for the Sale of
Works of Art and Vertu, Oil and Water-colour Paintings, Steel
Engravings, Bric-a-Brac, Bronze, and the best Fancy Goods.
Artists’ Material of every description, A Ibums, Photographs of Celebrities, Terra Cotta
in all colours for hand painting, Crjutoleum Glass, Dresden, Majolica, and Doulton
Wares. Pictures sold or bought on commission.
Gallery Open for Inspection from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
Oriental Gold!
THIS Magnificent Metal—the latest discovery of
science—puts in the shade every substitute for
Sterling gold ever offered to the public. The best
imitations heretofore produced are entirely super-
seded and surpassed by the
Brilliant Lustre and Enduring Beauty
of the new alloy. So admirable is its appearance
and quality, that the discoverers have not stooped
to apply it to common uses. No tawdry articles of
inferior design are manufactured of ORIENTAL
GOLD. It is worked up into
JEWELLERY OP THE BEST CLASS AND MOST
TASTEFUL DESIGNS ONLY,
And is perfectly indistinguishable from the most
costly Jewellery.
The highest grades of Sterling Gold Jewellery
may be placed side by aide with articles of Oriental
Gold, and the most experienced experts fail to dis-
tinguish one from the other.
The Oriental Gold Co.
Have Opened a
SYDNEY BRANCH IN GEORGE STREET,
Exactly opposite the Central Entrance to the Mar-
kets, where they have presented to public view
An Assortment of Unequalled Beauty
At Prices which represent only a fraction of the
cost of Sterling Gold Jewellery of Identical
Workmanship.
RESIDENTS of SYDNEY and VISITORS from
the COUNTRY are respectfully invited to inspect
our Goods. We count it no trouble to show them,
and no injury if no purchase is made.
We are glad to have visitors, because we know
that our goods please everyone, and that those who
do not purchase will speak of our,'(Jewellery to
their acquaintance in a way that will Ho us service.
We want to do business with people throughout
Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
PARCELS BY POST ON APPROVAL.
To save customers the trouble of compiling a
list, we make up useful and attractive lists as
follows
No. 1.
Gentleman’s Watch, horizontal movement,
Oriental Gold case, open f aee with crys-
tal glass, with handsome Oriental Gold
Albert, for ~ .. £2 0 0
No. 2.
Same as above, except that the watch has
hunting case, for ..200
SS?” Please observe. We do not pretend that
these are fifty-guinea watches ; but we po affirm
that they are good, honest watches, excellent'time-
keepers, articles which do us credit and give satis-
faction to our customers. In appearance they are
indistinguishable from expensive gold watches.
No. 3.
Gentleman’s Silver English Hunting Lever
Watch, capped and jewelled, with Ori-
ental Gold Chain ~£440
Oriental Gold Compass Charm .. . .. 012 6
Tasteful Breast-pin, Oriental Gold .. .. 0 7 6
Brilliant Alaska Diamond, Oriental Gold
Ring ..076
Oriental Gold Shirt Studs, set of four .. 0 8 6
£6 0 0
The watch in the above parcel is a first-class
artielo, such as is usually sold at from six to seven
guineas. We deal direct with the manufacturers,
and on a large scale, and thus we get special terms,
and are enabled to share the advantage with our
customers. The Jewellery, we need sea* f
can’t be told from sterling gold articles. hi l
manship is identical with the best. Thus-
ingr this watch from us, purchasers, as
fact, secure the other articles as a free if 11 '
No. 4.
A genuine Waltham Watch, nickel c?s®j
open face, crystal glass, as supplied 1 ,,
the N.S. Wales Kailway Departm® 0 '
with splendid Oriental Gold Albert ••
No. 5.
Same as No. 4, except that the Watch h?®
sterling silver hunting case, with cbim* j
as before .. ~. .. ..
Note.—We buy these watches by the
other-wise we could not sell them at the I"
Sportsmen, Bicyclists, Pedestbi^^ 0 '
Oarsmen—Observe I
No. 6.
A Racing Chronograph nickel-eased watc '
double dials, splendid timekeepe* . s
with patent liy-back, marking quart 0 £(
seconds, with Oriental Gold Albert •*
No. 7.
Same as above, except that this ca®®.«i < i
silver instead of nickel, with Ori® 0 ., 5
Gold Chain
Ladies ! Please Note*
No. 8. If
jady’s Oriental Gold Watch, hand*OJ»?£
chased case, full jewelled,
finished works, with handsome \ ve rt
ci
Oriental Gold, only
The above
oish
is a gift which will asto' 1
cipient. Each article is thoroughly J a
action of the watch is identical with™ fflV/
into sterling gold cases, of same des j e‘ ' c e
for £8 and £lO, and there is no diff® 1
appearance.
No. 0. /
Lady’s Oriental Gold Brooch and 1
Lad d exq e Necklet and Lock®*, ~ ,)»
ental Gold • .. V.
Lady’s gem set Gold Ring (real stones;
The above | s a gift packet, SP®'
from our stock at specially low rat® 8
ment. d&V
The foregoing are but a few j
fled to save ustomei-s the trouble, 0 »W
It will be mlficient when order 11 ’# q,o’
number of the lot, and enclose
amount Pat a ble to The Oriental &0
Specali V OBSERVE— If the art t
swer expectation on receipt, re-pae* iPI.
and send them back. If this is °° tb e &M
days, or, where mails are few, t i«H,« hr
after receipt, and the articles are iy yj
will return the money, deducting veCP,nw
expended on postage. You can Jhjrt
article ant! return the rest, and we
money for the articles not kept. j
Every watch sold by us will be t* y<
panied by a written warranty f° r 1 ~
We have a very large stock of
ladies and glut’s Alberts, Kings
crystals, ami Alaska diamonds, gEng, T
and Italia marls ; Lockets, Neck e g ojitO, 0 jitO,
Fancy Charms, Breast-pins, f
Studs (some very splendid Alaska #y
prices vary. ofjijfe
Send us from £1 to £lO, with ® *Tfor -L i f ;
want, and we will make a choice mi wOji
best of our judgment and forwa’ ml
approved, ahd immediately i'°j re ja a
relund as above, or make any ° eß
NOTE THE ADDR^L
474 GEORGE Si?
4
OPPOSITE MAH


BULLETIN
VoL I.—No. 7.—New Series.
SATURDAY, JUNE 30, 1883.
Price—6d.
" Down the Harbour,” Again!
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JUNE 30, 1883.
The S. M. Herald has, in its turn, tasted the
sweets of our law of libel as interpreted by
aN. 8. Wales judge. The case Anderson v.
Fairfax did not run on all fours with our
own Clontarf action. And the variation
has been useful, as clinching previous de-
monstrations of the iniquity of the law, and
of the incompetence of some of our Judges.
In The BuLLETiN-Clontarf case, it will be
remembered, every allegation in the artiole
which was the cause of complaint was proved
and endorsed by an overwhelming array of
eye-witnesses. But the Judge ruled that the
paper should be tried, not on the particular
artiole merely, but on the contents of pre-
vious numbers, even though no allusion were
made therein to the subject or point at issue.
The purpose of publication was the thing,
according to Judge Manning. Now, in the
Herald case, it is not pretended that the
statements in the article which constituted
the ground for action were sustained in
every detail. There is no doubt that the
attempts to verify all that was embodied in
the artiole broke down in several instances.
The reporter had not sufficiently distin-
guished between facts sustainable by his
own observation, and inferences which were
only patent to his own mind. But that the
general purport of the article was made out
and sustained by the weight of evidence,
there can be no reasonable doubt. The
reporter conveyed to the public his impres-
sions that the Andersons’ establishment was
not what it was represented to be; that the
motives of its conductors were not of
unqualified purity; that the boys were
not so cared for as to justify con-
tinuance of public subscriptions; and
that it would be a good thing if the
whole affair could be quashed. There
were evidently sufficient reasons why the
reporter should have arrived at these conclu-
sions. But, unluckily, his perceptive facul-
ties were superior to his powers of marshalling
his thoughts and giving to causes and infer-
ences their due relation. He jumbled up
what he had ascertained with what he had
gathered from ex-parte statements and with
what he had merely inferred, and in his
report failed to discriminate between these
essentially different grades of evidence. To
his mind, apparently, an inference was as
good as a fact, and a personal and internal
oonviotion quite on a par with a matter
proved by oollation of evidence or by ocular
demonstration.
* * *
To these defects in the article, the pro-
prietors of the Herald have primarily to
attribute the verdict whioh has astonished
he community and deepened the alarm and
uneasiness oreated by previous interpreta-
tions of the law of libel. Not that the article
ns a whole was not sustained in its essential
conclusions, but because opportunity was
u orded for the plaintiff’s counsel and the
u ge to dilate upon the discrepancies be-
ween minor details and minor facts. The
real question to be decided was embodied in
® defendants’ second plea, namely, that the
Publication was for the public benefit. Now,
be contended that it is for the
benefit that exaggerated or unsus-
shr>ni i affecting any individual
ben J l * [Published. Butitis f or the publio
tinn „ hat bnpostures, or misrepresenta-
trnw u ereby mone J 9 intended to support
ly charitable institutions are diverted to
frlw l6Ve should be
tinn/ co “* men ted upon. And if representa-
and good faith ’ without malice
honest purpose, and, broadly
speaking, accurate, should contain a minute
infusion of allegations not absolutely cor-
rect, it is distinctly for the interest of the
community that the representations should
be regarded as a whole, and a liberal appre-
ciation of their general import be permitted.
It is obviously not possible for any publio
writer, however excellent his intentions, and
however clear his faculties, to assure himself
beyond chance of enor on every detail in
all cases. A reasonable iatuade of inference
must be conceded; other wise, to describe or
comment upon any wrong will be to court a
penalty for trying to do the State a service.
Now, His Honor Sir George Innes has been
at the trouble to make a special disclaimer
on this head. After the verdict had been
given, and the Court was about to pass on to
MB. CHAS. A. GOODCHAP, COMMISSIONER FOR RAILWAYS.
other matters, His Honor offered some cor-
rections of the public report, and stated :
“ I did not tell the jury that the article must be
shown to be true ‘in every particular,’ but that
all the statements declared on, which in their
opinion had not been proved and conveyed serious
defamatory charges, must be proved to be true in
order to entitle the defendants to a verdict.”
Sir George no doubt believed that this ac-
curately defined his utterances, just as he
probably persuaded himself that his sum-
ming-up was free from evidences of a strong
bias against or for the defendants.
* * *
If His Honor’s idea of what he did and
did not instruct the jury be correot, then the
Herald’s report of the trial was oertainly
inaccurate in a degree quite extraordinary,
considering the care with which such
matters are habitually presented in that
journal. For in the report we find the
very instruction which Sir George Innes
disclaims, conveyed not once, or in a single
form, but repeatedly and in a variety of
ways. Thus His Honor is represented as
putting the case in a nett form in these
terms: —
“The question Is, Are these statements true?
Are these unhappy boys the means of getting a
good income from the public and giving Anderson
a certain hold upon a valuable property—thus
attributing to him dishonest motives—and were
the boys worked for long hours daily at the
severest manual toil, underfed, ordinary educa-
cation and religious teaching alike neglected, and
enjoying none of the play or amusement necessary
at their age ? Now, are these things true or not ?
Are they made out to your satisfaction ?”
And again
“If this artiele had contented itself with saying
things of that kind, pointing out these matters
which you may take to have been proved, and if
these facts, having been proved, there had been
the strongest, the most trenchant, the most severe
comment and criticism upon the way in which this
institution was conducted, nobody could have
found any fault with it. It would have been the
right unquestionably, and perhaps it would have
been the duty, of a journal such as this to point
these things out. But what is complained of here ?
Mr. Owen says he does not object to general ob-
servations. What he says is: ‘ They have charged
us here with various things to which I have ad-
verted more in detail. We say they are untrue;
we say they were eminently calculated to do us
injury.’ ”
With reference to which the Judge goes on
to remark
“ That is the way the plaintiff presents his case,
and it is for you to say whether these oharges are
proved. Some of them may have been proved t
and, as I said before, the thing has been subjected
—and justly—to very strong animadversion and
condemnation on many points. But it is for you
to say whether these things are proved, and, if
they are not proved, then the plaintiff is entitled
to a verdict at your hands, with such damages as,
under all the circumstances of the case, you may
think justifiable.”
And, once more referring to the different
oharges
“ If you think they have not been substantiated, if
you think one or more of them are of sufficient im-
portance to be taken into consideration as serious
charges, then the plaintiffs are entitled .o a ver~
diet, with such damages as you may think proper.
♦ ♦ ♦
The above are four separate
oulled from different parts of His Honor
summing. They are in perfect harmony
each with any and every other, and they all
convey precisely the sense which Sir George
disclaims having meant to oonvey. To dis-
pel the impression that His Honor did ac-
tually impress upon the jury that every
charge must have been substantiated to
their satisfaction before a verdict should be
given for the defendants, it would be requi-
site to suppose that every one of these four
paragraphs was inaccurate. It seems more
probable that a lawyer oi Sir George Innes’
quality had been oonfused about what he
actually did say, than that four separate
blunders, each curiously corresponding and
dovetailing, as regards the sense and purport,
with every other, should have ooourred in
the report. It is at least quite undisputed
that His Honor, whatever he may have
meant to leave unsaid, did not at any period
of his summing instruct the jury that they
should take a broad view of the representa-
tions in the artiole, weigh and consider the
general purport, and the ultimate effect
from the standpoint as claimed by the de-
fendants, and not denied to them, of public
benefit. Sir George assuredly did not in-
struct the jury that they were not to split
straws and grope among technicalities and
petty details, but to decide whether, viewing
all the matters comprehensively and in their
mutual inter-relations, the artiole had done,
the State good servioe; or that the injury,
due to the unsustained fractions of its re-
presentations, inflicted upon the plaintiffs
had been so considerable as to outweigh the
proportion of benefit conferred upon the
community at large.
• • •
But it cannot be expected that a narrow
mind should be the home of a broad concep-
tion. The law is vague and faulty. Its ad-
ministration depends largely upon the inter-
pretation given to it by suoh Judges as
political exigencies or the personal prefer-
ences of influential Ministers chance to give
us. This has resulted in most unsatisfactory
decisions. The intention of the libel laws is
that the power of the Press for evil should
be curbed. As the law has been administered
by the third or fourth-rate men whom
accident rather than ability has pitchforked
on to the benoh of our Supreme Court, its
incidence has been to paralyse the influence
of the Press for good. Recent rulings have
not only been dangerous to the general wel-
fare by restricting the liberty of the publio
Press, but they have been self-condemnatory
in another way. They have added confusion
and uncertainty to a general limitation of
useful privilege. In the Ciontarf-Bulletin
case, it was expressly urged by the oounsel
for the proprietors of Clontarf that the whole
tenor of a journal and any part of the oon-
tents of any of its numbers, present or past,
might be taken into consideration as afford-
ing a test by which to judge of the intention
in publishing a particular artiole. The pre-
siding Judge, Sir William Manning, was
at the trouble of consulting the Chief
J ustioe before giving a ruling on this point;
and, fortified by consultation with Sir
James Martin, he ruled that comment
on other portions of the paper was admis-
sible, as throwing light upon the spirit in


which it was conducted. This stands as a
precedent ; or, rather, it so stood till the
other day. But Sir George Innes just as
explicitly ruled to the contrary in his ad-
dress to the jury. His Honor’s own words,
as reported, are:—
“ But I must tell you that you must not go by
the general character of the paper. What you
have to consider is the character of this particular
article. And, on the other hand, if a paper wbro
to be charged with libel, and some articlo were
given in evidence as a proof of that charge, the
article itself not being libellous, then though it be
brought against them that they are constantly pub-
lishing libels, and that the general evidence is that
the paper is a scurrilous production, that cannot
be any proof that that particular article was libel-
lous. So in this matter tho evidence that this
paper is generally conducted on the most cautious
lines possible in no way entitles them to immunity
when they do—by whatever means it may come
about—publish a defamatory article.”
In this opposition of rulings, Sir George
Innes certainly shows to advantage against
Sir William Manning. But it is eminently
unsatisfactory that interpretations of law
should fluctuate hack and forward, accord-
ing to the idiosyncracy of the Judge who
chances to hear a case. And it is still more
unsatisfactory that the interpretation should
eacli time be varied so as to tell against the
chance of a public journal, when speaking
wholesome truth—or printing “ wholesome
fun ’’—escaping penalties which may to some
proprietors mean ruin.
* * *
It is surely full time that the Legislature
should arouse itself to a sense of the danger
which each such case as the last two impor-
tant libel actions brings nearer. As matters
stand, no matter how flagrant an abuse or
an imposture may be, no matter how greatly
the public might be benefited by a bold
arraignment of some “ring” or some im-
posture, no journalist will feel that his duty
Is equal to his peril in touching upon the
matter at all. If he make the slightest slip
—or, let us say, an error more than slight, in
Some detail of his allegations—the purity of
his intention and the utility of his disclo-
sures afford him no protection. He must
not only substantiate the tenor of his repre-
sentations, he must prove every iota. If he
be dragged to court and prove every jot to the
last tittle, and have the extraordinary good
fortune, even under these circumstances, to
get a verdict, the scoundrel whose designs he
has foiled may quit the colony and snap his
fingers at the verdict which ordered him to
pay the costs; or he may pass from the
Supreme Court to that presided over by the
Commissioner in Insolvency, and again laugh
in his exposer’s face. But, if the journalist
make good his allegations in the main, but
fail to prove some minor details, he is liable
to be thrust into prison, and, after having
there expiated his zeal for public welfare by
passing twelve mouths in gaol, he is still
liable to be pursued for costs and damages
by the vindictive enemy whom his public
spirit has raised up against him, and who
has at his disposal the whole machinery of
that law which should be a terror to—not
an instrument of—rascals.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Cobdon and Clemencean.
The resignation by English Whigs of their mem-
bership of the Cobden Club has, judging from the
fact that two cablegrams have been published in
Australia referring to the matter, caused con-
siderable excitement at home. One account as-
cribed the alienation of the Whig members to
“ frequent elections of members of foreign secret
Societies.” Another is more specific, and gives, as
the cause of the secessions, the election of M.
Clemenceau, the French Radical. Now, Clemen-
Ceait is one of the greatest men in Europe. While
Gamuetta lived, Clemenceau was his rival—
especially after the sometime patriot and fearless
opponent of the Empire had become rich and
slothful. Since Gambetta’s death, Clemenceau
has been recognised as distinctly his successor, and
only lacking opportunity to become the most
powerful man In France. He is a Radical, deeply
Imbued with the spirit of Socialistic Reform, and
the Cobden Club Whigs flee his presence. The
only surprising thing about this is that there
Bhould have been Whigs in the Cobden Club. The
Whig is a political Dodo—a survivor of a species
practically extinct. He belongs to the reign of
Queen Anne, and his raison d’etre is his sturdy re-
pugnance to the Pope and the Pretender, and his
preference for the House of Orange as against the
Stuart family. The Whig, yielding to the chang-
ing influence of the times, has figured as a sort of
Reform-and-Liberty-man; and, while the tradition
of successful rebellion lasted, was not nice about
making common cause with the people against the
Court. But the influence of Whig tradition has
evaporated. There no longer lingers oven a flavour
of distinction and respectability about opposition
to a Sovereign or a Government as by law estab-
lished. There are Whigs who have become as stiff
sticklers for the Divine right of kings to govern
badly, as is the veriest Tory. But, generally, your
Whig adheres to the idea that a Monarch has no
vested right to rule when his power is antagonistic
to the general welfare; still he resents altogether
the new-fangled proposition that the domination
of an oligarchy stands on no better ground than
the right of a king when that predominance exists
to the injury of the community. Your Whig is
quite prepared to admit that circumstances might
Justify a nation—or part of a nation—in ousting a
Sovereign, confiscating his revenues and kingdom,
and scouting his claims to Divine installation. But
he recoils with horror and detestation at the new
(and infamous) idea of chevying very much smaller
game —to wit territorial magnates, lords of the
soil—on the identical grounds that the community
suffers by their presence and can never prosper
till they be dispossessed —their little kingdoms and
inherited revenues confiscated, their vested (not
even divino) rights disregarded and derided. Now,
a Itadical discusses all these possibilities with groat
deliberation. And, just as thd CougrCgationalists
commenced by being Fredthitikers and national-
ists, and ended by regarding heterodoxy as shock-
ing and disreputable—so the Whigs, who originated
as revolutionaries and contemners of sacred rights,
now look upon persons who apply tile saute princi-
ples to modern as wild and dangerous
desperadoes, with whom it is neither proper nor
respectable to associate. Whigs are anomalies as
members of a Cobden Club. Cobden was a Radical
all his life, and there is no phrase of scorn and
obliquy which could be to-day applied to Cle-
Menceau which has not been previously hurled at
Cobden, during his long and stormy struggle with
landlordism to procure choap bread for the people
of England.
Sops for Juries.
In two recent Supremo Court cases, Anderson \
Fairfax and Davies v. Harris, th'.ro has been
brought into prominence a growing custom of
tipping jurymen with the sanction of the Court.
This is an objectionable proceeding; and if the
Judges have as little power as they seem to have
inclination to put a stop to it, the Legislature
should take it in hand. It must be admitted at
once that the legal provision for payment of jury-
men is altogether inadequate to recompense well-
to-do business men for the sacrifice of their time
and attention which is involved in attendance to
decide a protracted case. A man can generally
spare a day without serious inconvenience. But
when it comes to several consecutive days, and
runs to a couple of weeks, it is difficult
to say what liberality of payment would
recompense a man with considerable affairs
of his own to attend to. And, on the face
of it, it might appear only fair and reasonable that
as jurymen are attending to the affairs of the dis-
puting parties, the latter are the proper persons to
bear the expense. But universal application of
such a theory would be demonstrably mischievous.
Under such conditions, a poor man could not bring
a case into court at all. Justice is not provided in
the interests of individual suitors, but in the
interests of the community; and the community
should bear the expense, as it indirectly reaps the
benefit of every decision which serves the cause of
rectitude. But it becomes a scandal that jurymen
should find it necessary or convenient to institute
species of “ knock-outs” for increase of remunera-
tion. They only gain their desire, of course, when
both sides consent. But consent may be little
different from compliance with extortion. When
one side has signified acquiescence, the other is
really compelled to follow. Jurymen are but flesh
and blood, and no suitor would without apprehen-
sion stand towards them in the situation of a party
prejudiced in their eyes by a refusal to do the
correct thing as regards remuneration. There is a
moral compulsion in the case, none the less
effectual because it is cloaked by an apparent free
option, and the sooner the matter is rectified the
better. At the present time the practice is
altogether in favour of the wealthier suitor, and
its tendency is to demoralize and corrupt the
occupants of the jury-box.
+
At tho Triangles.
One of the most repulsive features of the old
penal days has been revived in Victoria and in
N.S.W. Flagellation goes merrily on. Scarcely a
week passes but some wretches are marched into a
gloomy looking yard in the Melbourne gaol,
stripped to the waist, bound to a triangle, and
lashed by the hangman with knotted whipcord
until their shoulders present the appearance of a
ripe peach scored with a pin, and the blood trickles
down their backs. It is sickening. Now, a stripling
of sixteen is carried fainting away from the scene
of his punishment and his place at the whipping-
post is taken by a white-haired, broken-down old
man of sixty, to undergo the same infernal torture.
And yet we shudder when the semi-barbarous
Aunamese impale a French officer, or a tribe of
infuriated 8a vages roast a missionary! “Whence
the occasion of all this abomination ?” you may be
tempted to ask. Does Victorian crime differ from
that of other countries? Have these wretches
subjected inoffensive citizens to outrage or dan-
ger? The fact is that the great bulk of those
who pass under the hangman's merciless eat-o’-
nine-tails have to suffer for indecency. As the law
stands in Victoria, the evidence of a couple of un-
scrupulous or abandoned women, or the unsup-
ported testimony of a couple of lisping infants,
may send a man to the triangles. At the Emerald
Hill Police Court, some days ago, on the evidence
of two children, aged seven and five, a man was
sentenced to two years' hard labour and two
floggings of twenty lashes each, for unwarrantable
exposure. The crime is abominable ; but the
punishment—well, it is simply fiendish, more fitted
for a community of Hottentots than of Englishmen.
So long as the punishment was confined to garotters
and others, who should, perhaps, be made to feel a
little of the pain so light-heartedly inflicted by
them in the way of business, some excuse might
be found for it. But tho thing is ever so much
beyond a joke when one or two prurient babies,
wandering where they have no business, or
prompted by childish mendacity, are permitted to
wreck a possibly honest man’s life. For it cannot
be supposed that a man, whether innocent or
guilty, who has once tasted the lash, Is much good
for anything afterwards, except to be flogged
again. Instances are constantly cropping up of
men’s suffering the infernal torture of the “cat”
on evidence that should not hang a dog, or for
offences that in England would be met by a few
days’ imprisonment or a fine of five shillings-
That the punishment is not deterrent has been
shown over and over rgain, by the constantly in-
creasing number of those who come under the
hangman's hands for correction. As it was said in
England that no legislative attention was likely to
be drawn to the frequency of railway accidents
until one or two Bishops were killed, so in Victoria
there is little chance of a repeal of this iniquitous
law until a Cabinet Minister or a prominent Eccle-
siastic has to “ stack his duds” beside the triangles.
There's plenty of flogging in the New South Wales
Criminal Law Consolidation Act.
Whence the First Atom ?
At the Town Hall, Melbourne, Mr. T. G. Dunn has
been knocking the theory of evoiutidri endways.
We call it “ theory,” for the tirnb iias himodt come
when it has emerged from the “hypothetical ’
stage. “ I might be afraid of the big devil if I met
him, but, if I met one of tho little chaps, I think I
could knock the ‘stutlin” out of him," said a
plucky little Sunday-school lad. The number of
times the “ stulHn’ ” has been knocked out of this
evolutionary rag doll is beyond counting, and yet
the thing comes up smiling and smirking as
if nothing had happened, or as if being knocked
down and jumped upon agreed with it. Mr. Dunn
bases his objections chiefly on the fact that neither
Darwin nor his disciples have satisfactorily
answered where the first “atom ” came from, and
yet, as an inverted pyramid rests on a point, so the
doctrine of evolution rests on this primal atom. At
one time the great stumbling-block was the “ miss-
ing link ” and orthodox funny men wrote:
“ I once was a monkey, and lived up a ti-ee,
Which nobody can deny.”
Now, however, it is the missing “ atom ” that
causes the trouble. We have no desire to initiate
a controversy on so dangerous a subject; but some
friend should suggest to Mr. Dunn that the diffi-
culty in discovering the first “ atom ” is scarcely
removed by predicating the Creator who made
that troublesome thing. To Mr. Dunn’s question of
“Whence the atom?” the modest Bradlaugh
would probably respond, “ Whence the Creator ?”
There are plenty of really formidable objections
to the Darwinian theory. No one more readily
acknowledged this than Darwin himself. The
odd thing is that lecturers who, to illustrate or
strengthen their objections, might be expected to
attack the weakest links in tho great naturalist’s
chain of reasoning, almost always choose the
strongest—almost always sit on the wrong end of
the evolutionary branch when cutting it down.
The Licensed Victuallers made a show of them-
selves at their meeting on Friday, June 22nd, when
they passed a resolution to discourage illegal
Sunday trading “ by every means in their power,”
after refusing to adopt a clause which pledged
them to one of the most effectual means—
viz., the appointment of a vigilance committee to
co-operate with the police in dealing with vic-
tuallers who habitually break the law. Mr. Cole-
man made a particular exhibition of himself wheii
he argued that the existing harmony among hotel-
keepers would be destroyed if the reputable and
law-abiding banded together ” to expose the
lawless and disreputable. A harmony which is
only maintainable by a passive confederacy
with rascality and low-livers, is scarcely worth
preserving. The Association, however, is very
determined that, although its members need
not be law - abiding, boarding - house keepers
shall. A Mr. Ferguson was very happy on
another theme. There is a sinful barber in his
neighbourhood who, it appears, sells on the sly a
shave and a glass of rum for the small sum of six-
pence. This offence against law and order vexes
the soul of Ferguson, already sore troubled by
the wickedness of boarding-house keepers who
sell liquor without a license, and seduce “well-
conducted” young men, introduced as detectives
to catch them selling, from their allegiance; and so
fill them with beer and joy that they refuse to
swear at all. It is lamentable to learn that the
private detective business has thus failed in the
boarding-houses; but it revives one to observe
that good solid resolutions were passed to call the
attention of the Inspector-General of Police to the
evil ways of the boarding-house keepers. While
the Inspector-General’s hand is in, he may as well
give a trifle of attention to that barber in the
vicinity of Mr. Ferguson’s hotel; and when his
myrmidons are prowling in that neighbourhood, it
might be worth while just to “put up a job” on
Mr. Ferguson himself, in view of the fact that
that eminent reformer frankly confessed (just
before he brought that scathing accusation
against the barber) that he traded on Sunday
whenever he got the chance.
The Kates of Subscription to The Bulletin,
are—For one year, 245.; half-year, 125.; quarter, 6s.
The Advertising Kates are ss. per inch;
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions,
15 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 25 per-
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion.
A strange story is told of two sisters in
Berlin. About three years ago one of these was
engaged to be married; but, on the bridal morning,
became so ill that she could not go to church. The
bridegroom was a desirable one, and he was a fish
who, it seems, had not been easily hooked. Delay
was risky; so the second sister, covering herself in
a cloudy veil, put on the wedding dress and went
through the ceremony. On retiring, she at once
changed her clothes again, and the unmarried sister
has since lived as a wife. The husband has just
found it out.
Cronin, owner of Volunteer, sued the
Singleton J.C., at the Singleton District Court, for
money won by his horse but paid over without
authority of plaintiff to the man in charge. Ver-
dict for defendant on evidence.
Mr. T. H. Boyd, Photographer, begs to
notify that he has secured extensive premises over
Mr. W. H. Paling’s new Music Warehouse, George-
street, Sydney, and will commenco business there
solely on his own acsount in about four weeks
from this date,—Sydney, 80th June, 1883.*
There is a considerable amount of fussing
oyer the South Australian Art (gallery. This arises
front two causes. (1) The country will not give
good prices for good work. (2) Those wealthy
folks who have money, and present pictures to the
gallery* possess nothing remotely approaching
good tastb, and probably buy per yard or per lb.
visitors look at the pictures, and obligingly vent
their views in letters to the Press. Then people
feel uncomfortable, and wish Abrahams, Hamilton,
and the other art dabblers who control affairs, had
not begun on trash. Presently somebody comes
along and says the pictures nre beautiful. Then
another prophet arises and values J. A. Upton’s
“ Peasant Girl at tho Shrine,” for which the trus-
tees have just given £250, at 250 shillings—without
the frame. Now, Upton’s picture is no worse than
many of the others. Upton was a photographic
colourist in Adelaide at one time, but, aspiring to
better things, left for the art centres and studied.
Therefore he is too well known among Adehiideans,
who would much prefer the paintings of some en-
tirely strange humbug with a broad palette-knifo
and a new patterned bootjack. And yet Johnson,
M.P., the shoemaker, is about to erect a big block
of buildings, and name it “ Colonial Industry
Chambers.”
Spicer is right after all. Joshua Aid stop
the sun. At least the SnuouD tells us that one of
its staff whilst on the wallaby got to Albury and
“ stopped the night.” If a Shroud man oould do
that, Joshua must have been a mighty mean cuss if
he couldn’t stop the day.
THE MODERN BALAAM’S CURSE.
All ye with pockets lined with gold
May aye avoid our curse;
God’s priests will welcome to the fold
All those who “ bring their purse.”
What, though your lives in lust and sin
From day to day grow worse,
We have a charn will pass you in,
If you but “ bring your purse.”
With sacred powers, your errors black
Instanter we disperse,
And conscience ne’er allow to rack
These who do “ bring their purse.”
Our laws are few, them we combine
In one just, straight, and terse;
The simple absolution tine
Is t .is—just “ bring your purse.”
Then, gilded sinners, now no more
Useless repentance nurse;
We’ll waft you to the “ Golden Shore ”
Straight on a well-tilled purse!
Coughs and Colds
T
HE Best Cure for the above is Bum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
PURE RUM,
Extra Strong-,
6s. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single little Dtjirtmit,
MARKET STREET.
"WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET,„
where you can obtain for
ecL.
A GLASS OP WHISKY, BRANDY.
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome of all Beverages.
C. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELISH WHISKY,
fls. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS,
Market Street, Sydney.
FURNITURE POLISH.
TO WHOLESALE BUYERS.
The above may be had at the following- ware-
houses, viz.:—
Holds worth, M’Pherson, and Co., Georgo-street
W. S. Friend and Co., York-street
Precious, Doust, and Co., King-street
E. Kirchner and Co., Wynyard-street
Holdsworth and Co., Georg-e-street
T. W. Eady and Co., York-street
S. Taylor, Bridge-street.
THE a A J^R^ IAN MUTUAL INVESTMENT'
AND BUILDING COMPANY (Limited).
HEAD OFFICE : 309 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY-
Branch Office: Montague-street, Goulburn.
BANKo
Oa
&2*D|A
DIRECTORS:
w - w - J. O’Reilly, M.D., Chairman ; K JTogba
Esq,; John Nobbs, Esq.; G. J. Wells, Esq. •
Wm. Davies, Esq, ; W. S. Foxall, Esq :
H. G. Swyny, Esq.
[ DEPOSITS RECEIVED TO ANY EXTENT.
6 per cent, per annum allowed on deposits for
months.
7 per cent, per annum allowed on deposits for 1
months.
£5 per cent, per annum Is allowed toy this Con
pany on current accounts.
Ir i. addition to the interest allowed, depositor
participate jn the profits.
H. G. SWYNY,
Managing Director.


the newsletter.
o Warren” Holt says the Dutch Exhibition
( , Ufton Hotel)
• NO sS O Bulletin tonic silently working.
Chowder. Brisbane.—Perkins v.
F ° ur libel y Flouto . Sydney,-
Teleoiu u h> herald. Adelaide. —The Minis-
REGISTER.
lr V' for the use of colonial can(li-
He ?nr admission into the Royal Military College,
“sealed packet of examination papers
S^> d Krwarded to the Governor, with oxplaua-
all information.
Hudson Bros, say they can supply’tTTe
Hudson moot with lnJ ii way carriages
Victorian than they cau either make
cheaper ana t them Perha p B this is so: there
b?g P bellows at Granville.
Rl H«mbers of the medical profession it
iiu« imagined were enthusiastics on the
would dosanitation. Avarice, however, in a case
matter san evidentl „ a more potent influence,
out west u municipal council received a com-
Late lLtion complaining that the nocturnal
mun decHned to do his duty, the writer being
BC ? V aw M D It turned out in discussion that
a leadl i^ rn „' 8 M.D. declined to plank down the
the generous >i he worfc require( £ ftll d the course
SftEe gentleman of nocturnal habits was uph*ld.
„.f nrm greatly needed in the constitution
of Sydney. Old cloistered sys-
of ,Vt« d vnamiting. Dark ways of Senate want
hoffiphotal light. A live chancellor,
flo tr?ennlal elective senate, protessora kept to pro-
fessorial work (and not allowed to “ boss assur-
ON THE TRAMP AGAIN.
ance societies), itinerant lecturers, reduced fees—
the popular ticket, in fact—that’s what’s wanted;
and not a heavy droning along in ruts made to re-
semble the ancient ways of Oxford and Cambridge,
out of which the Oxford and Cambridge of to-day
have pretty well succeeded in struggling. Why
should Sydney be marching towards what Oxford
and Cambridge are marching from ?
A bush youngster, the other Sunday, be-
came suddenly ill, and was seen bv the doctor to
exhibit symptoms of poisoning. It was subse-
quently found that he had, in his love for music,
swallowed half of his brother’s concertina. Con-
trary to general expectation in the township, there
has been no tune out of him since. His funeral
was influentially attended by the musical talent of
the district. And up at Rockhampton, also, a boy
has swallowed some green (arsenical) paper from a
•concertina, and has gone to that bourne from
"which, &c.
“Wales,” in his speech on the occasion of
the opening of the Royal College of Music, re-
marked, inter alia:— “Side by side with these
scholars will be educated a group of paying pupils,
who think that music is an art which, if worth
•studying at all, is worth studying well. They are,
then, prepared to enter on a systematic course of
instruction, of less severity and continuance than
that of the scholars, but still far removed from the
musical dilettantism of those who, induced by
fashion, not by taste, to study music, make pro-
gress enough to torment themselves and distract
their friends.” This evident dig at “Edidburgh”
gives one the idea that the Hope of the Empire
•possesses a latent fund of humour.
The blacks’ account of the death of Craw-
ford, manager of Rockland station (Q.), is this: He
was galloping after the blacks with his own station
black, when the latter stopped behind to kill an
iguana. The mob of darkies then showed fight.
Crawford had just emptied his revolver firing on
them when his boy came up. Crawford foolishly
punished him for staying behind, and the boy, in
revenge, told the other blacks that the revolver
was empty. The young scoundrel then borrowed
a waddy from the blacks, with which ho did for
Crawi ord with a blow behind the head. Moral:
Nimium te c rede cnlori.
The reason so many publicans in the coun-
try find their business “ flat, stale, and unprofit-
able” nowadays, is to a large extent explainable
by the fact, that “ lambing down,” that fertile
source of the grog-dispedser’s wealth, is gradually
becoming extinct. The shearing body, for in-
stance, is largely made up of married settlers, who
take the opportunity of increasing their small in-
come by this means. These, as a rule, return
cheque-whole, as well as heart-whole, to their
better halves, and thus the rum vampire is de-
prived of a good deal of plunder. In this way, one
curse of the back-blocks is being gradually elimi-
nated.
The new S.A. Education Bill repeals Acts
of 1875, 1877, and 1878. Four and a half hours to be
set apart every school day for secular instruction ;
soh >ois may open a quarter of an hour earlier
for reading the Holy Scriptures in the. authorised,
revised, Douay, or Lutheran version; attend-
ance at such reading not to be compulsory; no
sectarian or denominational religious teaching to
be allowed. The Minister may allow gratuitous
use of any school-building, out of school hours, to
any officiating minister or approved layman for
the purpose of giving religious instruction to
children who may voluntarily attend. The com-
pulsory principle is provided for.
The present local habitation of the institu-
tion known ns Auckland University College must
be uncommonly suggestive of the day of small
things. Said the Governor of New Zealand on the
occasion of formally opening it, the other day; “ I
really could not believe, when I was taken into
that barn by Sir Maurice O’Rorke, that I was in a
University at all. I asked where the Registrar
was, and I was taken into what first I was inclined
to think was the scullery—but there I found, not
only the Registrar, but the Professor of Natural
Science, Professor Thomas. Then I asked where
Professor Brown was to be found, and I was shown
into a room which absolutely had nothing in it but
a chair and a table. There was no chemical appa-
ratus whatever.” This last remark of Jervois
strikes us as remarkably rough on Brown.
New rules with regard to house to house
teaching and itinerating teachers:—Teachers not
necessarily trained may be employed as under.
They must be capable of imparting the rudiments
of an English Education. The mode in which then-
time shall be apportioned to the several families
visited will be determined by the Minister. Sub-
jects of instruction limited to reading, writing,
dictation, and arithmetic. Teacher to supplement
his oral instruction by a systematic course of home
lessons. Remuneration at the rate £5 per annum
for each pupil in average attendance up to a maxi-
mum salary of £lOO per annum, plus £lO per annum
for forage allowance. Teachers to keep a record
of the pupils’ attendance and furnish such returns
as may be required by the Department. Text-
books and materials to be supplied on requisition.
Wharton Brooke Jones, formerly an
amateur sculler of Tasmanian fame, butnowTown
Clerk of Maryborough (Q.) recovered £5O the other
day in the district court from one Ravenhill, who
had gone for Jones under the following circum-
stances: Ravenhill, on the 2nd April last, called on
Jones and asked him why he had put about
scurrilous reports about him (Ravenhill) and Mrs.
. Jones denied the impeachment, though
owning up to having the right to advise his sisters
as to where they should visit without Ravenhili s
interference. Then R. having remarked that he
didn’ believe a word J. uttered, hit out at the
said j. almost simultaneously with his left fist and
a riding whip, which he grasped in his red right
hand. Jones, with a promptness that did him
credit, brought into action his office ruler. Raven-
hill, utterly unprepared for a display of Home
Ruler tactics, thereupon cleared.
It is felt in Adelaide that the unfortunate
Presbyterian parson, G. A. Palmer, has been the
victim of a terrible mistake on the part of a little
girl. It is hard that a young man, respected
on all sides, just starting in life, and, more-
over, engaged to be married, should have to
answer an indictment for indecent exposure,
first at the Police Court, and then at the Cri-
minal Sessions. Public sympathy goes with the
poor fellow, his counsel, and Judge Boucant.
Charlie Kingston, acting as Dublin prosecutor, as
usual let his illogical hot-headedness get the better,
not only of his judgment, but of his common
humanity. Charlie is one of those men who see a
single idea at a time, become possessed of it, and
allow nothing else to have the slightest weight.
Outside the profession, Kingston would be the last
man to make inuendoes concerning a poor devil
in trouble. Anyway, the case against Palmer fell
through, and Kingston is spared the reproach of a
cruel success. Just think of it! The Rev. G. A.
Palmer has had a narrow escape. Had he been
convicted—and how easily might he have been con-
victed had the oath of, say, a hysterical woman
been added to the girl’s story—he might have been
flouued !
Officer’s Ostrich Farm is near Swan Hill on
the Murray. It has been established there about
eight years. There are now 100 lull-grown birds
on the farm. They are placed in small paddocks
in pairs and are fed artificially on maize, mangel,
and lucerne. The hen breeds twice a year, and lays
about 15 or 16 eggs. These are hatched during the
course of 42 days’ constant sitting, the cock bird
relieving the hen in the duties of hatching. The
crop of feathers is gathered in about every eight
months. The birds are driven into a small space
between two fences, something like the crush of
a stockyard, and whilst secured there the feathers
are out from the outside. The males are very
vicious during the incubating period, and will
not allow anyone near them. The crop of feathers
for the past nine months was last week unpacked
in the store of Messers. Dalgety, Blackwood and
Co. The feathers came out in fine condition.
Some of them were magnificent specimens, and
quite equal to anything of the kind exported from
the Cape. The largo white ones were very perfect.
Report of N.S.W. Postmaster-General for
1882. Post office revenue £229,910, ditto expendi-
ture £288,186. Electric T.D. revenue £120,265, ditto
expenditure £142,534. Money Order and Govern-
ment Savings Bank D. revenue £42,562, ditto ex-
penditure £39,063. Printing: Gazette advertise-
ments, Gazettes, &g\, cost £7337; printing postage
stamps cost £1462, and advertisements in news-
papers cost £l2lO. New postal route opened in 82
totted up to 1230 miles; new post-offices established
41; 15 additional letter-carriers appointed. Total
number of persons employed, 2315. Letters posted
271 millions, newspapers ditto 17 millions, parcels
VA million, postal cards 222,800. In 1070 registered
letters opened at Dead Letter Branch, enclosures
found representing £14,579. Money orders issued
247,716 (£883,523); paid 218,354 (£675,025). Savings
Bank Department: average amount of each de-
posit was £7 6s 3d; of each withdrawal, £l5 15s lid.
At the credit of each depositor’s account at close
of year was £2916s 2id. Lines of telegraph com-
pleted during ’B2 were 498 miles. Total oost on
whole extent of E.T. communication, £536,399 for
the 15,901 miles.
On Monday night an adjourned meeting
of about thirty gentlemen, proposing to form an
expedition to New Guinea, was held at the
Exchange Hotel. The five chief projects of the
expedition were stated to be:—l. To purposely
secure suitable areas for sugar cane. 2. To pro-
spect for gold, minerals, and gems. 3. To test the
capabilities of the island for export, agriculture,
&c. 4. To secure ethnological ana other curiosities
and native products and manufactures. 5. To
open up mutually beneficial trade with the natives.
Mr. Morton, who accompanied Mr. Goldie six
years ago in his botanical expedition to New
Guinea, gave an account of his experiences.
Ho had lived in New Guinea for ten months,
having landed at Port Moresby, the chief mission-
ary station on the South-west coast, a quiet and
well-doing village, with a population of about 800,
and a splendid harbour. The country around the
v illagc is flat. Thence Mr. Moreton pushed on to
Loloko River. After the hilly parts were passed,
the country was open and lightly timbered. The
Loloko River is swift and very clear; it overflows
its banks at certain seasons, and irrigates the land.
The banks are bounded by thick scrub from 20 to
150 yards in breadtth. The land is cultivated in a
very superior manner by the natives, both on the
coast and inland. The natives are not like the
Australian aborigines, but progressing towards
civilization. They are industrious and obliging,
the women are virtuous and modest. They have
strict marriage laws, are very particular about
land boundaries, and their fences could almost
be called rat-prool, so neatly urc they made.
In the event of a European’s buying land, the
whole of the families’ consent, to whom It belongs
has to bo obtained. Even the grandchildren and
cousins hold a communal interest in the land
nominally held by the head of the family. The
land is or a rich chocolate, with occasional patches
of black peaty soil. The natives cultivate tobacco,
yams, sugar cane (which they chew, not yet know-
ing the way to crush it), and coeoanuts. All the
natives smoke—women and children, as well as
men; but they will not use the European pipes,
although they prefer colonial dried tobacco to
their own. The chiefs have no very great power
over the natives; they work together, and only
assume their chieftain sway when some great re-
joicings take place. In Port Moresby there are 29
chiefs. The principal trades in exports are eopra,
beche-de-mer, and coeoanuts. The natives are
good at driving a hard bargain. There is nothing
to be feared from the natives if you go with a
definite object and keep to it, and don t interfere
with their women. Mr. Morton speaks very highly
of the trust and confidence the natives place in the
Kev. W. G. Lawes. His name is known far
inland, whore he himself has never been. Mr.
Lawes (he says) will do anything in his power to
help legitimate traders. Mr. Morton goes on to say
how he discovered gold in small quantities on the
river bars, but not enough to pay mining for it.
He also said that stone implements would, when
European cutlery came into use, no longer be
made, and, therefore, would be a profitable invest-
ment. With regard to the telegrams from England
saying that settlements would be allowed in the
portions of the country opposite Torres Straits,
tie says that these portions are the most unhealthy
part of the whole continent. Mr. Morton con-
cluded by advising that any party going to New
Guinea should go as far up country as possible for
the rainy season; that fever and ague were sure to
attack Europeans, but that a well-known remedy
—Epsom sails—proved a most invaluable safe-
guard against it. He strongly advises that one
leader and three councillors should be chosen and
strictly obeyed by the whole party. Mr. Martin
also gave some advice, founded upon his visits to
New Guinea with Mr. Chester, and also to the
Solomon Islands, some of which he has explored.
Messrs. Petre, Sheppard, Martin. Powell, Morton,
Nield, and Gibbings wero appointed a committee
to discuss and draw up a definite statement as to
the financial prospects of the expedition.
More Royal in-breeding. Princess Victoria
is going to marry her aunt’s brother, Waldemar,


PERSONAL ITEMS.
A coincidence. Parkes sails from Sydney
for foreign parts on the glorious 12th of July. Let
us hope that it means the departure from N.S.W.,
for ever and a day, of the bigotry which has often
been the played-out old man’s sole political
capital.
Montague Levy, of Wynyard-square, has
gone home. We haven’t heard what suite of apart-
ments he will occupy in Sandringham House. But
we think we could guess in two tries. We envy
him the gay old time he will have with the Prince
of Wales, whose two princelings he was such a
father to when they were out here. We don’t
know that we envy the Prince of Wales so
much. There will always be something kept
warm in the oven at Windsor for Montague when
he comes back late. It is better to be born rich
than handsome.
Governor Broome, the new Chief of West
Australia, has been laying the flattering unction to
the souls of his subjects that, after all, in the
future, their side of the great insular continent
will thoroughly eclipse the glory of the East. No
one, however, who has even a mere superficial
acquaintance with both sides would venture upon
such a bold statement. Except in a few special
lines, it is hardly possible for the West, from its
physical conformation, to equal, not to say surpass,
the splendid selection of climates, soils, and general
resources to be found in the East. New Broomes,
however, proverbially sweep clean, and this will
no doubt account for the sweeping assertion of
Western vice-royalty.
Marks Hermann, the Melbourne 1400 per
shenter, is, as all the world knows, in trouble again
over a £5OO bill. The facts are alleged to be as
follow: Marks lent a gilded youth £5OO and took a
£3OOO bill as security. Said bill was drawn by the
aforesaid gilded youth, one C. W. Sinclair, upon
and accepted by Andrew 8. Chirnside, a son of the
Werribee squatter, ami endorsed by Russell King
Hall (for whom the Chirnsides bought the Balla-
rat Star, because Hall had saved young Chirn-
side’s life while lion-hunting in South Africa).
King Hall didn’t keep the Star long—for reasons.
The bill wasn’t met, Hermann has issued a writ
against Chirnside, and old Andrew of that ilk in-
tends to fight tho matter out, and yet further
“show up ” Mr. Marks, who still worships at the
Synagogue.
There is in Sydney a man who in days of
yore owned an 82-horse power laugh. He went to a
nigger show once, and yolled at a Joke of Johnny
Cowan’s—he ! ho! he! ha! ha! ha! ho! ho! ho!
gurgle-e-e-e! Whereupon Johnny enquired from
the stage: “Can the gentleman oblige me with a
photograph of that laugh ?” On another occasion
at Bathurst he visited a hall on a public occasion,
and had to be removed from the place by two
policemen. Once more some friends of his invited
him to dinner at their rooms. He went, and—he
laughed. Next morning the landlady put on each
boarder’s plate one of thoso formally worded notices
to quit which can only emanate from an establish-
ment where peacock’s feathers are found in
Japanese vases over the mantel. But he laughs no
more. Though happily married he is married.
Of the platform efforts of Mrs. Dr. Potts—
or. If you will. Dr. Mrs. Potts—who has been deli-
vering a series of lectures in Auckland, and is
about to lecture in Sydney, some of the local
papers speak in approving terms. But one Journal
“ goes for ” the fair lecturer very straight in
respect to the discourse delivered by ner “ to ladies
only,” and, while remarking that “she has com-
pletely conquered the Auckland ladies, who, one
and all, firmly believe her to be a wonderful
woman, who knows a great deal, and has a very
happy way of disseminating useful knowledge
amongst her own sex,” asserts that she tells her
auditors a good deal more than it is good for most
of them to lcnow. The libel law of N.S.W. restrains
us from more particularly referring to the com-
ments of the Free Lance. However, on all hands,
it is admitted that Mrs. Potts is an agreeable and
accomplished lecturer.
When the place where the city of Christa
church now stands was a flax swamp, a Scotch
blacksmith of the good old classical name of John
Anderson started a small smithy, which was half
hidden among the flax and tall reeds growing
vigorously round it. As the settlement grew and
business became brisk, it was a common sight to
see Mrs. Anderson handling the bellows and at-
tending to the fire, while her husband hammered
vigorously and made the sparks fly, shaping into
use the implements and tools of the early pioneers.
Mr. Anderson is now the proprietor of the biggest
foundry and iron works in New Zealand: he em-
ploys a large number of men: owns whole blocks
of buildings in Christchurch; Mrs. Anderson rides
in her carriage, as she well deserves to do, and
when she meets an old woman on th? way with a
heavy basket of eggs or butter for the market,
she gives her a drive into the town, and as often as
not dl ys the whole consignment, and sends the old
woman home as happy as a lark. This is Chris-
tianity—the real genuine article—and we wish
there was more of It cultivated in our midst.
The man who told us this swore it was
true. In the halcyon days when the illustrious
Pigvote was a member of Parliament, he sported a
black bag, whereon were inscribed the magic
words: “H. H. Cooke, M.L.A.” But when ne
came down to Sydney, after the ungrateful elec-
tors had rejected him in favour of some parliamen-
tary Barrabas or other, the genial Cooke used, on
arriving at his hotel, and handing over his bag to
the custody of the housemaid, or the barmaid, to
ask her to “ cover up the M.L.A., as he didn’t wish
people to see it.” But this kind of thing at last got
wearisome, so Henry Harry after gravely reflect-
ing on the subject, one day mustered up sufficient
moral courage to paste a bit of paper over the
“ M.L.A.”, thus leaving plain “H. H. Cooke,”
visible to the public. Henry Harry will, when he
goes to hear the poll declared at next general
election, take with him a wet sponge and the bag,
from which he’ll be able to remove, in two seconds,
the sheet of paper that now interposes itself be-
tween him and glory. But even should his old
constituency spare him the necessity of baring his
titular appendix to a carping and envious world, it
is understood that he will be by no means ready to
throw up the sponge.
“ From 1848 until 1852 no backer of horses
(says the London Daily Telegraph) was better
known or more liked upon English racecourses
than “the Bombardier ”—as Admiral Rous always
called Fred. Standish—who had entered the Royal
Artillery full of youth, spirits, and hope, in 1845, to
bid his native land a long and final farewell in
1852. It will be recollected that in that year, so
fatal to backers, a chesnut pony named Daniel
O’Rourke, who had run nowhere in the Two Thou-
sand won the Derby in a sea of mud against one of
the strongest fields ever marshalled at the histori-
cal starting-post. Among the horses vanquished
by Daniel O’Rourke were numbered those two
magnificent specimens of the thoroughbred,
Stockwell and Kingston; nor, judging by the ex-
ample that Stockwell made of the Derby winner,
when they both met in the Doncaster St. Leger,
would it be easy to compute what weight would
have brought them together in the September of
1852. Suffice it to say that the Derby victory of
Daniel O’Rourke drove Capt. Standish forth from
his native land into the unknown wilderness at the
Antipodes, from which he was destined never to
return.” The captain managed to pick up his
crumbs in the wilderness.
When a Governor leaves his satrapy, he is
rarely remembered with feelings of veneration.
Why this should be so especially the case in the
colonies, we hardly know. Perhaps the Governors
we have had have been especially undeserving of
reverence. However that may be, they are now
telling stories in Victoria about their late Gover-
nor, Sir George Bowen, which make the good old
fentleman appear in a somewhat ridiculous light.
hey say that he oould weep at will. His speeches
—particularly his after-dinner speeches—were all
powerfully pathetic. He appears to have been
aple to transmit this gift of tears to his children, as
when he was leaving Mauritius, the procession
having reached a certain point, he was heard to
say to some of his family, Cry here.” They tell a
story of his weeping at a banquet given him at the
Town Hall, previous to his setting out on a visit to
Europe. After the affair was over, one of the
guests spoke to another in high terms of “ his Ex-
cellency 8 tenderness of heart. “ Ah, but,” replied
the other, “ he has done that kind of thing before.
When he left New Zealand he wept copiously. But
unfortunately the hard-headed people down there 1
entirely misconceived the thing— they thought he
was drunk.”
Two stanzas, alternative to those numbered
17 and 18 in Byron’s “ Ode to Napoleon Bonaparte,”
have lately been discovered in the poet’s hand-
writing. They read thus :
XVII.
Yes! better to have stood the storm,
A Monarch to the last!
Although that heartless, fireless form
Had crumbled in the blast;
Than stoop to drag out life’s last years
By nights of terror, days of tears
For all the splendour past;
Then after ages would have read
Thy awful death with more than dread.
XVIII.
A Lion, in the conquering hour!
In wild defeat, a hare!
Thy mind hath vanished with thy power,
For danger brought despair;—
The dreams o. Sceptres now depart,
And leave thy desolated heart
The capitol of care!
Dark Corsican! ’tls strange to trace
Thy long deceit, and last disgrace!
Byron showed his sense by omitting such halting
verses. We wonder what damphool first pub-
lished them.
Sir William Robinson, at luncheon on
the Adelaide Racing Club’s Cup day, indulged in a
considerable amount of “high falutin” as regards
his strenuous intention of upholding the honour
and glory of sporting matters in general. As a
consequence, he has been dubbed by many as
another Sir Hercules, and of course the Shroud
wades in with the following characteristic moan:—
“ With Sir Hercules Robinson in Victoria, and Sir
William Robinson in South Australia, our racing
powers will have to bestir themselves unless they
wish to be left far behind in turf matters.” Now,
as a matter of fact, Sir William is by nature the
very antithesis of even the most Platonic sports-
man. In fact, Mr. Winkle would be quite a
shining light beside him in this respect,
spite of all tho “side” he may put on
at posLprandial racing speeches. If Sir Hercules
“ What is so rare as a day in June ?”
TENNVSON.
is entitled to pose as the Vice-regal Esau, then
most assuredly does Sir William lit into the place
of the smooth-faced domesticated Jacob. Lady
Robinson, though, by the way, is somewhat of an
equestrienne, and has the reputation of being able
to knock out of time the cutest horse-dealer in a
bargain for a bit of horse-flesh. A somewhat
laughable yarn in regard to this fact went the
rounds in another colony some time back. A
rather touchy old dealer had a horse on view
before “ my lady ” who was going in extenso into
its various good and bad points. As she was pro-
ceeding with: “And don't you think his quarters
are ?” etc., etc., the old sport broke impatiently
out with; ’* I tell yer what I think, marm; I think
the bloomin’ resurrection will be around afore I
sells this here prad, if I wait listenin’ to any more
o’ yer higgling,” and with that he unceremoni-
ously marched out of the gubernatorial yard.
Old Tom Boyd, whose portrait we gave in
our last issue, and whose fame is now almost on a
level with that of John Davies, is an Irishman,
and was born in 1798—50 that, though still hale and
hearty, he has seen the summers and winters of 85
years. He arrived in N.S.W. five years after the
Battle of Waterloo, and in 1824 joined the Hume
and Horell expedition which started from Appin,
Just to see what kind of a place Port Phillip was.
The plucky little band crossed the Murrumbidgee
at Cavan, near Yass, and at last succeeded after
many hardships in reaching the spot where Gee-
long now stands, but as things were rather dull at
the time, they returned to Sydney. It was during
this time that Boyd swam the Murray, and thereby
earned for himself not only undying fame but
what was better still, a ticket for the recent Albury
banquet. In early life he was remarkable for his
courage and vigour. Hume placed the greatest
confidence in him; and, in fact, the late Mr. Fitz-
patrick, who was one of the explorers, used to say
that, if anything happened to Hume, they had no
one to depend upon to guide them back to civiliza-
tion, except Tom Boyd. Many years ago Boyd
settled as a small squatter in the Tumut district,
and on his slender means raised a large and respect-
able family. Fortune, however, dealt hard with
the veteran, and to-day he does not make quite so
much money as say—an “ Australian cricketer,” or
a retired prize-fighter. His old friend, Sir John
Hay, knew him forty years, but it was Mr. Richard
M Kay, of Tumut, (an American, by the way) who,
at his own expense, brought the hardy pioneer to
the Albury celebration. Messrs. M‘Kay and T. C.
O’Mara are entitled to the credit of bringing for-
ward, at a fitting time, the last of that intrepid
little band who left Appin forty years ago. The
Government, it is thought, will now “do some-
thing” for old Tom Boyd.
Mr. Brennand, whose torpedo, according
to a recent cablegram, is to have an exhaustive
trial at the hands of the British military authori-
ties, is a young Victorian engineer of great pro-
mise. He first brought his invention under the
notice of the Victorian Government, who recom-
mended him to try Woolwich; the money to enable
him to proceed home and do this was found by an
enterprising and prominent railway man who is
now located in Sydney. Of Mr. Brennand’s talents
the military engineers evidently have a high
opinion, for the Government, in order to retain
his services, have given him a captaincy of Royal
Engineers with special pay. He was accompanied
to England by Mr. Temperley, a Victorian
engineer, who, in addition to high scientific quali-
fications, possesses some diplomatic abilities of
which young Brennaud may possibly be deficient.
Whether the Brennand torpedo succeeds or fails,
one thing is certain—its inventor has made for
himself a name, if, indeed, he oannot strictly be said
to have achieved th® first step in the ladder of
fame. Brennand, who was a pupil of the late
Mr. A. K. Smith, Civil Engineer, of Melbourne, was
always inventing something, and was a wag withal.
Two washerwomen one day saw him using a theo-
dolite on a Carlton allotment. “ Will yez take me
loikeness, av ye plase?” asked one of the old
dames of Brennand. “ Certainly—stand still while
I fix the instrument. There now—steady. Ah—
hat’s it. Now, don’t move till I co ■ e back.
Thank you.” He went off, and was away ten
minutes, during which he drew a pencil caricature
of a hideous hag. This he carefully enclosed in an
envelope, and, having returned to the allotment
and done a little more bogus manipulation of the
theodolite, he handed the envelope to he old
lady, who had fairly broken down in her efforts to
preserve a sphinx-like steadiness. “ There you are,
madam, at fast,” said Brennand; “mind you don’t
open it for a quarter of an hour, or it will be spoilt
by the sun.” Then he shouldered his theodo’ite
and cleared. Even now he would rather dodge
one of his own torpedoes in the Yarra than face
the woman whose “likeness” he took on that
Carlton allotment.
“ Mr. Hornby, the cricketer, seeks to enter
the English Parliament in the Conservative inter-
est.” More power to himl This is what we like
to see. Wo like to see muscle taking its place in
the councils of the nation. We like to think of
calves and biceps struggling with questions of in-
ternational policy. We like to think of brawn
taking the place of brain). And what is more
reasonable? The crickeLfleld is the exact place
wherein to educate a budding statesman. There
is the wary play, the dash, the excitement, just as
in the Parliamentary arena. And it is well-known
that all oricketers, after finishing play, or while
they are fielding, exercise their minds in drawing
moral lessons from the vicissitudes of the game,
and make mental notes that are of incalculable
service to them in after life. Mr. Jack Gardiner,
member for Carlton, Vim, obtained all his dialec-
tical skill in this way. He was a first-class foot-
baller—a captain of footballers—and inferentially
he was just the kind of man the colony needed to
steer it through political crises. Poor Jack! We
were in Melbourne when he was first elected to
represent the Carlton constituency. At first it was
all a joke. The boys proposed “ their Jack ” as a
candidate out of sheer fun. Jack took it in solemn
earnest, and they, in order to carry the joke out,
canvassed for him all through the constituency.
After they had done this for two or three days, they
saw that people took them to be serious, and that,
if the thing were carried out to the end on this
basis, Jack would very probably come out at the
head of the people. And he did. But the boys
were never very enthusiastic about his abilities.
We overheard one of them say, after Jack had
returned thanks from the hustings, “Well, our
Jack would make a bloomin’ fine speaker if he
had anything to say.” At this time he kept a little
clock-shop in Lygon-street. We have dropped in
on him occasionally when passing, and always
found him with a huge Lempriere before him on
the counter “ brushing himself up in the classics.”
This was how he was able afterwards to electrify
the House by “ asking the honorable member what
Proteus had said upon the matter ? ” and such like
unanswerable posers. In course of time, Jack
came to be considered a very learned man, but a
trifle too pedantic. When he started to legislate,
he had to tie his wristbands with string, and now
he is an auctioneer in a first-class way of making
money—which shows what a fine legislative instinct
he must have had. We would like to see a few
more of his sort in Parliament; and then we would
like to die.
A oertain muoh-travelled bush missionary
wields a stinging goose-quill. He used to write to us,
and we still carefully preserve his letters and post-
cards. We subjoin copies of letters signed by him
—it is true that someone may have forged his signa-
ture—and received lately by two country gentle-
men whose well-known houses, so far as we have
heard, were never noted for inhospitality to worthy
strangers:— “ , Esq. Dear Sir, You must
pardon my humbly protesting against your un-
gentlemanly and unkind treatment of myself
at your station lately. As a preacher (engaged
in a good work) I sought hospitality at. your hands,
but was rudely sent by you to occupy a room,
all but unfurnished, save and except with fleas and
filth, which (viz., said bedroom ?) adjoins the over-
seer’s hut. For nearly ten (10) years I have tra-
velled throughout five of the Australian colonies,
and have received from the rich—as well as the
poor—the greatest kindness and hospitality. From
Deniliquin to Wagga I only received contributions
from (ivo stations; although my expenses were
heavy, as I am aided by no society. You will see
therefore that I have a very uphill struggle, and
many difficulties and obstacles to contend with.
Surely, therefore, the least you could have done
was simply to do what the majority of other
squatters and land owners in the colonies have
done—viz., extend to myself the same courtesy,
civility, and hospitality in your man house, as these
gentlemen have done in theirs. Your position as a
rich man demands that you should endea vour to
act in a gentlemanly, kind, civil, and courteous
manner to all strangers; particularly to those who,
like myself, are ‘goingabout doing good ’ amongst
the bush people. What kind of attention do you
think would your men have extended to my
addresses in their hut had they known at the time
I addressed them that you had grossly insulted me
by imperiously and rudely ordering me away to
occupy a room not tit for a drunken blackfellow to
sleep in ? I have prayed to God that he will forgive
you, for I have never known any one who has been
rude or inhospitable to myself as a preacher, ever
continuing long to prosper, or upon whom the hand
of Ood did not fall very soon thereafter with crush-
weight and heavy punishment. I pray to God
once more that he will forgive your pride (purse
pride is the worst of all pride), rudeness, inhuman-
ity, inhospitality, and injustice towards myself,
and I remain your obedt. Servt., ,
Bush Missionary. Wagga Wagga, Tuesday evening.
P.S.—Should you wish to apologise to me (and I
think you ought to do so at once by letter) please ad-
dress to me at Box —, General Post Office, Sydney.”
Again (to the son-in-law of the recipient of the
foregoing):—“ Steyne’s Metropolitan Hotel, Cobar,
28th May. 1883. Memo. To Mr. . Sir, I was
not aware when I called at your station that you
were related to Lord Bkooknong ! I! I only recentlu
ascertained it. I stand in awe accordingly ! That
Gent, treated me in an arrogant (and in what I
deemed to be a rude and inhospitable) manner. I
remonstrated and protested by letter, just that and
nothing more. This did not justify your paltry and
mean inhospitality to me by refusing to entertain
me: much less did it justify your sending a mess-
age (by a half-witted simpleton) that 1 was welcome
if I liked to go to your men’s hut. That no doubt
would be a very suitable place for yourself and the
aforesaid ‘ ltill-gore ’ (!) but not for one who is
your superior, not only in birth and education, but
also in manliness, pluck and courtesy. I camped
with my horses in your paddock about half a mile
from your parlour. The night was cold, but your
dead wood made an excellent tire. It crackled and
laughed, and so did my horses and myself. We
had a jolly time of it. .”
John William Colenso has “passed in his
checks.” He was very good to humanity, he was.
He was born in 1814. In 1836, Cambridge hailed him
as second wrangler and Smith’s prizeman. From
college he went as an assistant master to Harrow;
from Harrow he went into Norfolk as rector of
Forncett, St. Mary; from Norfolk he went (in ’54)
as Bishop to Natal, there to meet whom Bishop
Thirlwalf called the “fatal Zulu.” The result of
this meeting was “The Pentateuch ” (published
October, ’62); and the result of “ The Pentateuch ”
was a declaration of English Bishops, in Convoca-
tion assembled, that the said book contained errors
of the gravest and most dangerous character. The
prelates, having purred condemnation of Colenso’s
plausible absurdities,” the lesser lights (or
glooms?) of British orthodoxy wiied in at John
William, mainly after the following fashion :
An arithmetic teacher of Gospel no preacher,
Worked on with his ruler and pen so,
That, bound in red tape, he was sent to the Cape
As Bishop John William Colenso.
But his fondness for figures was fat 1
To teaching the people of Natal,
For early and late
Making sums on a state
Couldn’t make any Christians in Natal.
And besides British orthodoxy, Colenso had to
take Cape orthodoxy into account. Gray, Bishop
of Capetown, his metropolitan, deposed him in ’64.
Thereupon Colenso appealed to the Privy Council;
result, Gray’s proceedings declared to be null and
void. Gray’s next step was to excommunicate
Colenso, which he did in his cathedral at Maritz-
burg in 1866. Despite all this opposition and
calumny, Colenso was doing the work of a whole-
some missioner in Natal. What “ doxy ” it was he
cottoned to is a small question beside the work
(larger than any credal conundrum) which he
wrought manfully and patiently and “ blow ’’lessly
during nigh thirty long years. The best defence of
Colenso’s work is to be found in that glorious
speech of Arthur P. Stanley’s (spoken some year
or so ago amid hootings and derision at a meeting
of the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel)—
a speech that contained these words:—“l know
that everything I say will be received with ridicule
and contumely; nevertheless, I say that long after
we are dead and buried his (Colenso’s) memory
will be treasured as that of the one missionary
bishop in South Africa who translated the Scrip-
tures into the language of the tribes to which he
was sent to minister; the one bishop who, by his
researches and by his long and patient investiga-
tions, however much you may disapprove of them,
has left a permanent mark upon English theology-
yes, though you may ridicule, I say the one bishop
who, assauea by scurrilous and unscrupulous invec-
tive unexampled in the controversy of this country,
and almost in the history, miserable as it is, of
religious controversy itself, continued his re-
searches in a manner in which he stood quite
alone, and never returned one word of harshness
to his accusers; the one nishup that was revered
by the natives, who asked him to intercede for
them wbh the Government, and that without
reference to any other bishop of South Africa: the
on- bishop to whom the natives came long dis-
tances to place themselves uuder his protection,
or even to have the pleasure to look upon his
countenance. (‘Order.’) You need not call
‘ Order!’ I will not be restrained by this mockery,
these jee s, this ridicule, these gibes! I say there
will be one bishop who, when his own interests
were on one side, and the interests of a poor savage
chief on the other, did not hesitate to sacrifice his
own, and, with a manly generosity for which this
society has not a w< rd of sympathy, did his best to
protect the supplicant; did not hesitate to come
over from Africa to England to plead the cause of
this poor unfriended savage, and when he had
secured the support of the Colonial Office—unlike
other colonial bishops—he immediately went back
to his diocese. For all these i hings the Society for
the Propagation of the Gospel app ars to have no
sympathy; but you may depend upon it that out-
side t’lese wafls —in the world at large—whenever
Natal is mentioned, they will wi admiration; and
posterity will say that among the propagate is of
the Gospel in the nineteenth century the Bishop of
Natal was not the least efficient.”
• # •
Hugh M'Leod, a Cowra blacksmith, re-
ported to have succeeded to a fortune, in the death
of a relative in Tasmania A skull, supposed to
be that of the gallant Major Von Tempsky, who
was killed at Te-Ngutu-O-Te-Manu, is m the pos-
session of Mr. Beresiord, of Normanby, N.Z.. .Mel-
bourne is to be startled shortly by some revela-
tions concerning certain Hebrew gentiemen which
will quite put in the shade all Messrs. Waxman and
Herman’s doings in the now notorious Petty-1400-
per-cent case. And it's women—or rather girls—
not money, this time. Lotharionism, not usury....
“The Waddling Duck,” “Speckled Hen,” “Black
Cockatoo,” “Long Handled Shovel,” “Draught
Filly,” “Grecian Bend,” “Scrub Turkey,” “Hol-
low Log,” “ Murrumbidgee Barge,” “Black
Sander,” are amongst the names allotted the bar-
maids and dancing girls by the miners in the North.
Strange to say, each possessed some peculiarity
that appeared to identify her with her namesake.
Darley, the clever brother of our great Q.C., is in
America taking lessons in diamond drilling at the


cost of the colony.... Dr. Metcalfe, of Norfolk
Island, when out shooting with Mr. Rossiter last
month, was accidently shot in the back by his
companion; damage very slight....Parkes leaves
for Hengland, ’Ome and Beauty on the 12th. Ex-
tensive repairs, etc., going on in consequence at
Windsor, Sans Souci, and Laeken.. Mr. Steadman,
the longest pressman in Australia (he stands a little
under 8 feet in his shoes), has abandoned literature
and accepted a position as Queensland Government
labour-agent in the South Sea nigger trade Sir
George Arney, ex-Chief Justice of New Zealand,
who died recently in England, aged 73, leaves no
family. During his last illness, he was nursed by
Colonel and Mrs. Colls, connections of his. The
Colonel and a Mr. Speed are the Judge’s executors,
and it is generally understood that Mrs. Colls in-
herits most of the property. Sir George was buried
beside his wife in the cloisters of Salisbury Cathe-
dral. Titheradge has obtained a divorce from his
wife. ..The latest is that a legal “infant,” in
Wellington (N.Z.), only 18 years of age, is about to
seek a divorce from his wife! It is to be hoped that
the married boy will get the divorce, a good spank-
ing, and be sent home to wipe dishes for his ma
Thus a contemporary:—“ Lady Florence Dixie is
small, wiry, and 30 years old; she swims, rides,
drives and shoots,” The supplement to this shoulc
have been “and lies.”—ln last issue of the Aus-
tralasian Medical Gazette, there is reported
the successful performance of tracheotomy in a
case of diphtheritis laryngites. Dr. Newton used
the knife, and was assisted by Dr. J. R. Riley,
F.R.C.S., (who reports the operation) and Dr.
Robinson. The patient was a child of 10 ..We hear
that the bulk of the estate—in all £150,000 or so—
of the late Mr. G. Lee Lord, goes to his brother,
Mr. Bertie Lord, who is now in England Died in
April, in England, Lieutenant-Col. George Palmer,
a cousin of the Lord Chancellor, in his 84th year.
He was born 1799, and educated at Harrow. In
1830, in conjunction with his father, he raised the
Essex Yeomanry Cavalry, of which he was for
many years commandant, and which for five years
(from 1838 to 1843) he maintained entirely at his
own expense. He was one of the commissioners
for the colonisation of S.A.; and one of the sub-
scribers to the fund which fitted out Colonel
Wakefield for the purpose of making a settlement
in N.Z.... The takings of On Lee, the Sydney
“ Chinese doctor," atTemora, in one day, amounted
to 80 guineas. There’s an English doctor there, but
as he doesn’t profess to be able to see through a
man's shirt and ribs by the aid of an opera glass,
the cute Temoraeans don’t believe he’s up to the
times of the enlightened 19th oentury. ..Sir An-
thony Musgrave, the new Governor of Queens-
land, leaves England for Brisbane in a few weeks.
* * *
David Buchanan says : “If Mrs. Carlyle
was unhappy, it was from no fault of her illus-
trious husband. His renown threw a glory around
their quiet hearth,” &c. Here David is predicating
more than he can prove. How does David know
that glory around tneir quiet hearth was what Mrs.
C. desired ?—Poor Lord Aylesford is again going
off on his travels. His charming and virtuous
wife has left him, so he must seek fresh fields and
pastures new—and this time the ancestral mansion
must be let to provide the sinews of war. We
commend this information to the attention of our
wealthy fellow-colonists. Now’s your time—go in
and win, dla Sir Salmon. By the way, we thought
Henniker Heaton would have gone in, but we find
that he has returned to N.S.W. per Messageries s.s.
Caledonien—The buffoon’s mantle of the late
Bernal Osborne is said to have fallen on his
brother of the British Consular Service It is
being put about that the widow of Frank Leslie,
the wealthy proprietor of a number of New York
newspapers, is the only daughter of Lola Montez—
by Karl Lewdwig, the King of Bavaria, who abdi-
cated in ’4B. The statement’s a lie A Timaru
(N.Z.) butcher has eloped with a neighbour’s wife.
Something should be done with these butchers,
certainly. A butcher who will charge a customer
sevenpence a pound for beef, and then walk off
with that man’s rib, should be ground in one of his
own sausage machines.
A very smart auctioneer, in the Hay
district, was got at by a very simple-looking fellow,
who drove a likely-looking nag up to his office in
a buggy, and sold it to the “ smart-un ” for a tidy
figure. Horse stone-blind.
One good point about the “casino” hops
°f Sydney is the total absence of that stiff for-
mality which renders our high toned ball-rooms so
irksome to many of us. In the casino a dirty
jumper,” dirtier pants, and a still dirtier pipe
supply the places of the claw-hammer banger,
Stoves, and eye-glass of the ball-room; instead of
the tedious leading of your partner up stairs and
back for refreshments, a bucket of “tanglefoot,”
with a pint pot attached, is placed in a conspicuous
cornerof the casino, and the orchestra generally
seats himself in the fire-place. Even the freezing
ceremonial cai of the M.C., “ Gentlemen, kindly
take your partners,” has been softened down, and
i , e butcher boy boss of the casino revels
wishes the company to “ chase the hours with fly-
ing feet,” he gives a rorty little walk into the
centre of the room and shouts, “ Now then, chaps!
bift yur gals fur a bloomin’ shor-teeshe.” Then
tnere is a rush, a roar, and a clutch; the orchestra
is politely requested to, “ turn it up, an’ kim away
irum that adjective bucket,” and off the revellers
oau to the soul-stirring strains of a one-lunged
German concertina.
Sydney, June 23, 1883.—The Editor of The
bulletin.—Sir,—On page 6 of j our last issue is a
paragraph relating to myself, as editor of the
■imkausian Medical Gazette, and Dr. Cortis,
or Loonamble. In it you publish correspondence
fr!?- c jis consideration to the writer, I had re-
irained from doing in the paper which is the recog-
lizea organ of the medical profession in Austral-
asia, and, as far as it lies, the conservator of its
good name. When writing to Dr. Cortis for an
pi'bjfnation of the paragraph subsequently criti-
the very objectionable character of which,
ami? 1 a Professional point of view, is obviously
I?' 8 , evident anxiety to disclaim its
utnorsbip, l tl'd it solely in virtue of my office as
utor of the Medical Gazette, and not in my
ca Pacity; therefore the use of the third
|V rs< l, n was the most fitting. My consideration to
J think is shown by the fact of my
n ? to him at all to give him the opportunity
tho« plana *' l 9 n * instead of making my criticism on
in q f? ari J^ ra Ph as it appeared. It must be manifest
nn „ 1 w d° carefully read your item, to which lam
a niv3. eplyiDg ’ that my criticism was writtemunder
nanl , J >er sense of my duty as editor of the medical
{LP®?* ln the most kindly spirit, for in it I did
authk* natever I may have thought) impute the
snir»2r? a i p .9 f the original article to Dr. Cortis, but
“inijfv • that it might have been sent by some
did ■h'd'CKms friend.” I learn from you that you
1 a °t receive it from him, but copied it from the
antfio .newspaper, and it is to this source I must
nivba f,?; 1 au explanation of its authorship. That
iskh, I .',2 l ne^ was not reciprocated by Dr. Cortis
tinn dy the tone of his letters, not in explana-
at jefluested, but in passionate querulousness
citm. y rnamtam) proper action. As to his soli-
rathni. 1 .. *° he hoped, in the interests of the
libel ~ye . r d ant client, at all events in the law of
hw ae will have more worldly wisdom than
Drnh2lul° i u cr ’^ t whom t is obvious that though
ver nJi; , e has reached maturity, he has not
ediWi2\ ve d at years of discretion. You, in an
sav remark on the operation of tracheotomy,
contr22„’ despite the Gazette’s statement to the
one w< ? believe it to be an extremely rare
thoiio-wu 18 a Bdstaken idea on your part, for
havpbL;, Paragraph complained of says there
Austr-«if 11 .?9i y , two successful cases recorded in
lede-e within my own personal know-
ODemH™’ during the last year and a half, the
times h2 Q r> successfully performed three
brs Rvi Dr ’ Tarrant . twice by Dr. Traill, again by
report* , a u nd Ne wton, of Mudgee (this case is
■sinop th- . t hu present issue of the Gazette) ; and
the By dney Hospital, by Dr. Wood-
recoverv *7™!® cas P B makin g a good and perfect
acting l »Ai .throughout this affair I have been
Medicat rL y ln my capacity of editor of the
Publishes an d had not my name been
Was » a °d the inference raised that the matter
Cortis Ppsuualquarrel between myself and Dr.
not ha • h ave never seen in my life, I should
am sir JL desired to reply to your paragraph.—l
’ r i yours faithfully, Jno. M. Creed.
WOMAN ITEMS.
At an orthodox Jewish wedding, recently
performed in London, the bride’s hair was cut
completely off immediately after the ceremony, in
accordance with the ancient custom, the idea
bems; to render the lady as unattractive as possible,
so that there would be no inducement for her to
prove untrue, at least till her hair grew longer,
this was all very well during the Mosaic age, but
now-a-days the prudent bride simply saves the
pieces and has them worked into a gorgeous bang
by a leading professor of the art tonsorial. With
Christians, it is the custom for the bridegroom to
shave his head before the ceremony in order that
the bnde may not have anything to grip.
The Prince of Wales’last new fanoy is Miss
Chappell, niece of the well-known music publisher
of Bond-street, London, who is, indeed, a beautiful
** iL' ri « ue ’ ln these days, which are not the times
of the Merry Monarch, has rights whioh even
royalty is bound to respect; nevertheless, there is
an odium (to some extent the result of feminine
jealousy) which will linger when a woman is known
to have been admired by the Prince, and respect-
able girls, but particularly their parents, feel this
very keenly. A young Scotch girl recently went
to London on a visit to some relatives, and soon
after her arrival sho met the Prince of Wales at a
ball, where he paid her a great deal of attention, and
the next day sent her a magnificent bouquet, with
his compliments. Her relatives were so alarmed at
the affair that they sent the girl straight back by
the first train to Scotland out of harm’s way 1
It is stage etiquette that an actor should
never kiss a lady on the lips, unless he has first
received consent, but must, while making an
apparent swoop for them, so as to deceive the
audience, really alight on her chin, or somewhere
in the vicinity. This crushes all the tenderness out
of a love-scene to the principal performers. No
matter how dimpled and smooth a woman’s chin
may be, there is an irresponsiveneas about it that
must strike a chill to the heart of the earnest
kisser. A cheek is a slight improvement on the
chm, because there is less bone about it; but be-
hind the ear is the most desolate wilderness of all.
The reason why the husband of a pretty actress
can look calmly on while the star osculates with
his wife is explained by the chin manoeuvre or ear
swindle. But notwithstanding that husbands in-
sist that the star shall just strike at that particular
uninteresting spot, and no other, accidents do oc-
casionally occur. When an actress is really good-
looking, an involuntary movement of the laay, or
a pardonable nervous mistake on the part or the
gentleman, will prevent the most precise shooting
star in the universe from aiming straight; ana
after all, the pouting lips do receive tne errant
salute which etiquette and husbands insist
should fall only on the chin, or cheek, eye, hair, or
ear.
Here is a ooinoidence. A certain Sydney
magistrate said, in dismissing a case the other day,
I shall dismiss every case of women-insulting
where it can be shown that the. woman first flirted
with the accused.” And, twenty-three centuries
A LITTLE SKETCH AT COOGEE.
ago, Herodotus—of whom this worthy magistrate
had probably never heard —wrote after this
fashion“ The Persians appear to be of opinion
that they who offer violence to women must be
insensible to the impressions of humanity and
ustice, but that such provocations are as much
beneath revenge as the women themselves are un-
deserving of regard, it being obvious that all the
females thus circumstanced must have been more
or less accessory to the fact.” This is pretty rough
on lovely woman, but it shows that with all our
veneer of politeness we are not very far in ad-
vance of the primitive Persian. And, speaking of
Persia, reminds us of the fact that the Shah of
that giddy land is accused of having had the wife
of the Swedish captain of a Caspian coasting ship
abducted and carried to his harem in Teheran. He
has our sympathy—the Shah, we mean. The hus-
band probably went mad with joy when he heard
the news. Persia is like many other places we
know, in one respect. It is much easier to get a
wife there than to get rid of one. (We can’t write
any more on this subject till she lets go our hair).
A brand new translation of Catullus’s
“ Ad Lesbiam ” (Carmen V.):—
Let us live and love, my Lesbia;
All the gossip of old people,
All the frowns of ugly fogies,
Let us rate at half-a-farthing:
Sunrise ever follows sunset:
But when once our brief lamp quenched is,
All is night—we sleep for ever.
Therefore, kiss me in this fashion—
First a thousand, then a million;
Second thousand, second million;
Then third thousand, and third million,
Kiss me till we’ve got to billions.
Then we’ll jumble all together,
Lest some evil-minded person
Should be jealous, when he finds out
What’s the total of our kissing.
We crib the foregoing airy trifle from “Juvenal,
Persius, Martial, and Catullus—an Experiment in
Translation,” by W. J. Shaw, M.A., late Fellow of
Trinity Hall, Cambridge (a brother, we believe, of
Mr. John Shaw, of the Cumberland Mercury).
The Intensity of the passage reminds us of some
lines we once read—in, we think, W. S. Mayo’s
“ Land at Last ” :
“ And bury her beneath such heaps of roses,
That If she had ten thousand thousand noses
She’d cry, ‘ Enough, enough! take off your
posies,
My heart was icy, but it now unfroze is.’ ”
The High Churchmen of Sydney have
slightly altered an old ecclesiastical form of speech
into No low episcopi.
Mrs. Hampson, with a great gift of the gab
and the charms of a very nice figure, draw. nr
crowds In Melbourne, to the extreme indignation
of parsondom, who consider that a woman has no
right to preach; which is a singular view for
larsondom to entertain, seeing that it is muchly
inclined to regard being old womanlike as the
ne plus ultra of evangelical style.
THE BOTTLE OF GENEVA.
To Manly Sunday morning
We went in search of fun.
Ah! recollection dawning.
We’d been “ sitting in the sun.”
We’d fossicked round and round the tap,
No go! We but unearthed a “trap.”
We twigg’d him, with a look intent,
Clasp something in a bottle;
One furtive glance, inverse it went,
“ Glug, glug,” adown his throttle.
We ran to ask how he had found it,
It looked like gin and luscious sounded.
To anxious queries re a Schnapps,
The myrmidon replied:
“ You’d better clear away, young chap,
No one’s allowed inside!
This boozing game is squashed, you see,
Since the ‘Teetotal Victory!’
“ I earn my drain, that you’ll agree;
The landlords here about,
When they gets cornered, sends for me
To chuck the loafers out.
I’m shepherding this pub., you see,
Through this ‘Teetotal Victory!’ ”
“ Well, tell us how it came to pass ?”
Entreatingly we said,
“ And how our legislators crass
Conceived this measure dread.
Expound to us this liquor law,
And what they parch our gullets for.”
“ The Bungs assisted,” “ Bobby ” said,
“ To turn Sir ’Enry out;
And now that Stuart’s got his * bed,’
They’re dazed, and can’t make out
How these, their friends, could party be
To this ‘ Teetotal Victory.’
“ A former boss of that hotel,
With borrowed coin did buy
The business: now it’s gone to—well,
He’s been compelled to fly;
So with a heavy heart he fled
To San Francisco, it is said.
“ It was a funny sight the day
The Act came into force,
For hundreds gazed in black dismay,
Then cussed in accents hoarse.
The thirsty sinners couldn’t see
The force of this ‘ Great Victory!’
“ Great praise from ‘Totes,’ Sir ’Enry got.
And Davies, C.M.G.”
“ Why, this is all the blankest rot,”
Quoth I, indignantly.
“ Nay, nay, dyspeptic one,” said he,
“ A great ‘ Teetotal Victory.’
“ And those who’ve cellars laud the votes
That this restriction passed—”
“ We’ll join a club, or all be Totes;
But tell us, will it last ?”
He said he couldn’t tell, and we
Drank ginger-beer despairingly.
A blaokfellow up North, who sees a tele-
graph line for the first time: “Bi gaw, the man
that’s been put up that wire fence, he damphool.”
Dr. G. Thon, of Rockhampton, contributes
to the current number of the Australasian
Medical Gazette a translated article, from which
we extract this:—“ln a person taken out of the
water apparently dead, not only is the temperature
of the body lowered, but it continues to fall still
more, and death must be the natural result. It is
therefore plain enough that the first step towards
a rational treatment is the application of artificial
heat. Hot clothes, however, soon lose their heat,
hot bricks, etc., act only locally, but a hot bath of
122 deg. F. will often prove successful if used with
caution, and for no longer time than a few
minutes. If one so hot is not at hand, water of a
temperature from 97 to 100 deg. F. will be sufficient
to prevent the temperature to sink below the
normal, but it then becomes necessary to place the
patient before an open fire, guarding nose and
mouth against the direct heat of it. A temperature
of from 90 to 104 deg. can this way easily be borne.
The thermometer, snowing the temperature of the
body, should now guide us in our further treat-
ment; it will decide when it is time to put the
patient to bed, how long we may leave him in it or
remove him again to the fire, and what distance
from or near it will be the most useful for him.”
Surely parsons must write the “ladies
letters” which abound in the dailies at this time!
Here, for instance, is some reverend person, pro-
bably a bishop, commending a “Dinner Year
Book ” sent her (the bishop) from New York. She
quotes thusly: “Amongst other things the
authoress insists that a beefsteak cooked upon a
f ridiron, is quite a superior thing to one that is
ried, in which opinion I entirely agree.” What I
has it come to this? Is there any bushwhacker in
Australia who does not shove his steak—when he
has one—into the embers, and leave even a grid-
iron behind ? What, in the name of Beelzebub, do
bishops think Australians are made of ? Because
a man happens to visit Australia for a long term,
or, probably against his will, be bom there, has he
consequently forgotten, or never known the con-
nection between a beefsteak and a gridiron. This
comes of letting bishops write in the papers. “ A
beefsteak cooked upon a—” Bah! Enough. Let
bishops ponder on Tennyson’s “ Lines to a Steak,”
from the “Princess”:—
“ Fry me no more, the fire may draw the fat:
The meat make soup on ash and take the blood,
With fold to fold of coal or mallee-wood;
But O, too fond, why am I frizzled at?
Fry me no more.
Fry me no more: what frizzle should be mine ?
I love not hollow slab, or hard-burnt chunk:
Yet, O my friend, I will not have thee shrunk;
Fry me no more, lest I forget to dine;
Fry me no more.
Fry me no more: thy gravy’s almost run:
I strove against the frypan all too late;
Let the great gridiron take me to the plate;
No more, dear love, for to a turn ’tie done:
Fry me no more.
The Furniture Column.
TAKE ADVANTAGE of the inducements of-
fered, and make your purchases at the Royal
Furnishing Arcade. Send for a copy of tho
Economical House Furnishing Guide. It will show
you how houses of various sizes may be furnished
comfortably and nicely, and how you may advan-
tageously apend the money at your disposal.
List No. 6 is a good one, and reads thus
For the sum of JBIOO prompt net cash,
You can Furnish a House as follows:
DRAWING ROOM.
£ s. d.
Tapestry drawing room suite 16 10 0
Oval walnut table 3 15 0
Walnut sideboard with marble slab top,
Slate glass back, and three plate glass
oors 7 10 0
Walnut occasional table 8 6
Whatnot 17 6
Pier glass 2 17 6
Cornice pole, with rings,; pins, and
brackets 10 6
Pair lace curtains 7 6
Pair curtain bands 3 6
Eight-day striking clock 15 0
Suite of vases, or pair of lustres 110
Kerosene lamp 15 0
Fender and Are irons 116
Tapestry carpet 2 17 6
Hearth rug 7 6
Door slip .... 3 6
SERVANT’S ROOM.
Bedstead
Pair palliasses
Mattress
Bolster and pillow
Washstand and set ...
Toilet table ...
Glass...
Chair
Matting
KITCHEN.
Pine dresser with drawer
Table with drawer
Two-door pine safe
Two chairs...
12 soup plates „.
12 meat plates ...
12 pudding plates
12 cheese plates ...
Pair vegetable dishes
Five meat dishes
Two pie dishes ...
Soup tureen
Sauce tureen
Gravy boat
China tea pot
Six china cups and saucers ...
Six china plates, 6-inch
Six china plates. 7-inch
China sugar basin
China milk jug
China butter dish
China slop basin... ... ..
Six china egg cups
Two bread and butter plates
Two side dishes
Muffiner
Pair salt cellars
Set of jugs
Pair cut decanters
Six cut tumblers
Six cut wines ...
Six soda glasses
Six Mosley’s dinner knives ...
Six nickel dinner forks
Six Mosley’s dessert knives ..
Six nickel dessert forks
Pair carvers
Two table spoons
Six dessert spoons
Six tea spoons
Set of dish covers
Kettle
Boiler
Saucepans, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s 6d.
Frying pan
Grid-iron .
Coffee-pot .
Colander
Wash-basin
Dipper
Tubs, 5s and 68 6d
Buckets, Is 9d and 2s ...
Wash-board
Two candlesticks
Baking dishes, Bd, lOd, Is
Pepper caster
Flour dredge
Set skewers
Knife box
Paste board and roller
Pair flat irons .a
Pair bellows
Hair broom
Hand brush
Scrub brush
Knife board and polish
Set shoe brushes
Dustpan
15 0
9 6
9 6
2 6
17 6
7 0
5 6
0
0
0
6
3
0
6
4
3
5
9
3
12
2 9
1
3
4
3
4
0
6
3
3
0
9
1 9
3 0
3 0
2 6
3 6
6 3
3 9
2 6
3 0
7 6
6 0
6 0
0
6
0
0
3
5
2
10 6
6 6
6
6
10
10
2 0
1 6
2 0
1 6
2 0
1 0
11 6
3 9
1 6
1 6
2 6
0 6
0 9
1 0
2 6
3 6
4 0
6
6
6
6
0
6
3
£lOO 0 0
In this list we introduce our £l6 10s suite, an
illustration of which appears in our Furnishing
Guide. If the purchaser desire, he can substitute
the £3 10s Suite, or any other, as low as £Blos., and
so reduce the total amount by so much.
Campbell Brothers,
Royal Furnishing Arcade,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT THE ROYAL HOTEL.


PE R A
HOUSE
Lessee, TV- J. Wilson. Sub-Lessee, A. T. Dunning.
Stagre Manager, T. B. Appleby.
Treasurer, J. F. Goldsworthy.
ANOTHER GREAT PRODUCTION.
THE KING’S DRAGOONS
THE KING’S DRAGOONS,
and
THE WONDERFUL AESTHETIC DANCE,
again received with the Greatest Enthusiasm, by a
Crowded House in every part, while
NUMBERS HAD TO BE TtJRNED AWAY.
THIS and EVERY EVENING.
Admission—Dress Circle. 55.; Stalls, 35.; Pit, 2s.
Box plan at Huenerbien s Music Warehouse, 411
George-street, where seats may be secured for any
date in advance. Day tickets obtained at
Stone’s, tobacconist, next Theatre.
Secretary to A. T. Dunning, A. N. Hallifax.
THEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & Musgroye.
EVERY EVENING,
MISS JENNIE LEE,
as
“JO,”
played by her over 2000 times in the principal cities
of the world, supported by
Mr. J. P. BURNETT
and a carefully selected Company.
Business Manager for Miss Lee, LIDDY.
INTERCOLONIAL JUVENILE INDUSTRIAL
EXHIBITION, PARRAMATTA, 1883.
Patron : His Excellency the Governor.
President: Sir George Wigram Allen, Knt.
To be held in Parramatta Park.
OPENING DAY, WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 19,
Schedules will be issued in about 14 days.
R. H. DELOW, ) Joint
CHAS. E. NOWLING,)' Hon. Becs.
Parramatta,
25th June, 1883.
ICTORIA HALL,
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Lesseo
Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
The most Elegant, Fashionable, and Popular
Place of Amusement In Australia, well adapted
for any flrst-class entertainments. The Lessee open
to Rent or otherwise. Apply
WM. MARSHALL,
Lorgnette Office, Melbourne.
E
OURTH OF JULY, 1 8 8 3.
SECOND ANNUAL CELEBRATION BALL
AT NITHSDALE.
N. B.— Tickets procurable only at the U.S. Consulate
GEO. D. KAHLO, Hon. Treasurer.
The American Consul will be in his office during
the day. when he will be happy to receive those
who desire to pay their respecis to the Government
he represents.
CADET EXAMINATION, SURVEY OFFICE.
TT is hereby notified that an Examination of
Candidates for Employment as Cadets in the
Department of the Surveyor-General will be held
early in November next. The exact date, when
fixed, will be duly notified. Candidates must have
attained the age of 16 years, or they will not be
eligible for examination.
Intending competitors can obtain further in-
formation upon applying by letter to the Surveyor-
General, or personally to the Secretary and
Cashier.
(Signed) P. F. ADAMS,
Surveyor-General.
Surveyor-General’s Office,
Sydney, 22nd June, 1883.
S
YDNEY ANNUAL STUD SHEEP SALES.
MORT and CO.
will hold their NINTH ANNUAL SALE of
Pure-bred Merino Stud Rams & Ewes
at their
WOOL WAREHOUSES, CIRCULAR QUAY,
commencing on
TUESDAY, 17th JULY,
at 10 o’clock,
and continuing on the
WEDNESDAY and THURSDAY following,
when about
1000 RAMS and 450 EWES,
comprising FIRST SELECTIONS from the Stud
Flocks of celebrated breeders in Tasmania, New
South Wales, and Queensland, will be offered at
public auction for Unreserved Sale.
The catalogue will include drafts from the fol-
lowing breeders
TASMANIA.
Messrs. James Gibson, David Taylor, W. H.
Gibson, Thomas Parramore, George Parramorc,
J. D. Toosey, jun., Robert. Jones, W. A. Kermode,
J. B. Gibson, George W. Keach, Charles Field,
Herbert Gatenbv, William Gatenbv, Robert D.
Finlay, William H. Bennett, Joseph Archer, James
Taylor, John Gibson, John L. Smith, D. M’Kin-
non, James Cox, E> Dowling, Maurice Weston,
Henry 8. Smith.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Messrs. J. F. and H. White, of Belltrees and
Glenalvon ; James D. Cox, of Cullonbone, Mudgee.
QUEENSLAND.
Messrs. Geo. Clarke, East Talgai; C. B. Fisher,
Headington Hill.
COMPLETE CATALOGUES,
Bhowiug breeding and pedigree of each animal,
will shortly bo issued, and tho Auctioneers will be
glad to forward copies by post to intending buyers
on application.
MORT and CO.,
Woolbrokers and Stock and
Station Agents,
CIRCULAR QUAY AND DARLING HARBOUR,
Sydney.
G-. H. SMITH,
MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER
OF
Hats Caps,
J3T 302 GEORGE STREET,
Three doors South of Hunter Street.
THE BUGGIES OF THE PERIOD.
Unequalled for Durability and Elegance.
WAGGONETTES & EXPRESS WAGGON S
FIRST-CLASS WORK ONLY IMPORTED.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 & 24 Clarence-st.,
SYDNEY.
BROOKS SEWINGiCOTTONS
o
o
E
o
o
cc
oe
■AAv 1
O
Q
C£
3>
-riiJr
sn
BROOK'S SIX-CORD
SOFT COTTON
OK
NEW SHOULDER REEL
’ VERY GAREFULLY MADE
bob
HAND & MACHINE SEWING,
. White, Black & all Colours
BROOK’S PATENT
glaceT THREAD
ON
NEW SMOULDER REEL. <
N
HORDERNS’, in Pitt-street, are
always busy,
Because they keep in tSe very forefront
of the times,
These competitive, hardworking times.
They maintain first place for economi-
cal prices, combined with fashion,
elegance, and taste. Our goods
are imported
HORDERN BROTHERS,
2ll, Pitt-street.
A First-rate Display of
Linens, Damasks, Calicos,
and
Other Household Requisites
in our Northern Window
TO-DAY.
You are invited to speoially notice them.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
2ll, Pitt-street.
WE Employ Dozens of Milliners
and Hundreds of Dressmakers,
and accordingly can attend
to your wants
and well. TRY US.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
211, Pitt-street.
"ITf 7”HY HAVE WE OBTAINED THE
VV PREFERENCE re the Govern-
ment Contracts, and Supplying of Car-
pets, Floorcloths, &c.?
Because we have proved ourselves
able and willing to sell very very reason-
ably.
Please bear this in mind when YOU
want Carpets or Floorcloths, &o.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
Importers, Pitt-street.
B
EAUTIFUL, RICH. YET INEX-
PENSIVE GOODS
in our Larue Southern Window,
in Pitt-street.
You really should see our excellent
show.
Very Tempting, Very New, Very Fash-
ionable.
Notice the Ready-made Evening Dresses.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
211, Pitt-street.
Beau brummell
was the
GREATEST LIVING AUTHORITY
ON DRESS.
and he expressed his candid opinion that
a young man of respectability,
WITH ECONOMY,
could dress well on
FIVE HUNDRED A YEAR.
That was in his day, but now you
can obtain
A FULL SUIT OF NICE SCOTCH
TWEED for 50s
A FASHIONABLY-CUT and COM-
FORTABLE TROUSERS for 11s
A TROUSERS ANITvEST THAT ALL
WILL ADMIRE for 21s Sd.
AT HORDERN BROTHERS’, TN
PITT-STREET.
This proves without a doubt that
THE PURCHASING POWER OF THE
PEOPLE HAS INCREASED.
And the intelligence of the people has
increased likewise; and the honest-
hearted, horny-handed sons of toil—the
bone and sinew of this glorious land—
also the clever and skilful mechanic, the
ever-toiling shopman and hard-working
clerk, the studious < nd thoughtful men
of letters, of law, of physics, of jour-
nalism, and of inventive genius, all
alike demand to dress
WITH ECONOMY,
as
YOUNG MEN OF RESPECTABILITY,
and the pioneers of our country, who
walk abroad with decorum and with
dignity, as becomes those who have
done so much for the rising generation,
also wish to attire themselves with
ECONOMY, TASTE, and COMFORT.
With this end in view, they visit
HORDERN BROTHERS IN PITT-
STREET,
and purchase
TWEED SUITS FOR 50s,
that astonish all who see them; Suits
that fit like a glove; Suits that exhibit
the artistic skill of the men who make
them; Suits that give a lasting pleasure
to all who wear them, and their intelli-
gence induce them to purchase,
TWEED TROUSERS for 14s,
cut in a gentlemanly style, and made
from really nice material, after it has
been soaked 24 hours to ensure a posi-
tive guarantee against shrinkage, and
to accomplish all this they visit
HORDERN BROTHERS, IN PITT-
STREET,
and purchase Suits and Trousers for
present and for future wear, lest a war
in Europe, or some other un.oreseen
and untoward accident, should occasion
a rise in Woollen Goods and prevent
HORDERN BROTHERS, IN PITT-
STREET,
from continuing to supply their patrons
with such good and well-made gar-
ments at suoh a small price. The public
are therefore invited to participate in
the exceptional value now given at
HORDERN BROTHERS, IN PITT-
STREET.
10-DAY. TO-DAY. TO-DAY.
BUY IN
THE FASHIONABLE STREET-
PITT-STREET.
The Fashionable Street—Pitt-street.
More ladies favour Pitt-street with their
patronage than any other locality
in this fine city.
That is the reason HORDERNS* was es-
tablished in PITT-STREET,
You are invited to buy here—reasonably.
£3OOO For 2s. od. £3OOO
A COLOSSAL FORTUNE for HALF-A-CROWN.
The “GREAT VICTORY” SWEEP on the MEL-
BOURNE CUP, 1883.
To be Run on the 6th November.
This Gigantic Sweep, offering- advantages to the
public never before attempted, is the property of
a bond /ide Company with responsible directors.
CAPITAL: £lO,OOO, divided into 80,000 Shares of
2s. 6d. each.
Also, over 1000 Prizes guaranteed, and distributed
as follows:
Ist horse .. .. £3OOO
2nd horse .. .. 1000
3rd horse .. .. 500
Starters divide .. 500
Non-starters do. .. 250
20 Prizes at £5O .. 1000
40 Prizes at £25 . .£lOOO
100 do. 10 .. 1000
200 do. 5 .. 1000
750 do. 1 .. 750
Total.. ..£lO,OOO
~We shall send 9 tickets for a pound. Not less
than 2 sent to any single address. Send P. O. order,
cheques, or bank notes. If stamps are sent, add
exchange at the rate of Is. in the pound. Should
coin be sent, register letter. Please send 3d. extra
for membership. ~ _ , _
The drawing will take place on the Ist November,
and will be conducted by a committee of 150 Share-
holders drawn from the entire body. The result
will be posted to all Shareholders immediately,
and advertised throughout the colonies.
Tickets sent by return post.
Write at once for prospectus. No charge.
Address-* 1 VICTORY,”
Care of George Robertson, 94 Bourke-street,
Next Opera House, Melbourne.
LRI
>&
Sold
FACTORY
NortH|
kumil
STORES
CeorjS
Sydney
Everywhere.
W. Howard Smith and Sons,
STRUTH’S WHARF and NEW WHARF
(Foot of King Street).
Offices: 42 KING STREET.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Brisbane to Port Mackay and Townsville
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
fg
Geelong
Keilawarra ..
Konoowarra
Leura
Moreton
Rodondo
You Yangs ..
800
900
1500
1300
600
1200
700
W. HOWARD SMITH and SONS,
42 King Street, Sydney.
Armstrong’s Remedy for Internal or
Bleeding Piles
Rapidly superseding all other modes of treatment.
For the CURE of HEMMERHOIDS, largely pre-
scribed by the Faculty. It improves the general
HEALTH, equalises the CIRCULATION, relieves
CONGESTION, stops BLEEDING, Pain, and Itch-
ing, in from 24 to 28 hours. Sold in bottles only, at
4s. 6d. and 10s.
ARMSTRONG’S PARAGON PILE OINTMENT.
FOR OUTWARD PILES. Price, 2s.
Armstrong’s (Camomile) Liver and Bilious
Pills,
For the Cure of Indigestion, Dyspepsia,P alns in
the Side, Headache, Giddiness, Heartburn, Flatu-
lency. and Habitual Constipation. They give a
Healthy Tone and Vigour to the necessary Organa
of Digestion—the Stomach and Liver—and being
mild in their operation, promote Digestion, restore
the Appetite, and strengthen the entire System.
Price, Is., 25., and 4s. 6d.
Armstrong’s Red Jamaica Sarsaparilla,
in Combination with Dandelion and Potash.
“ Recommended by the Highest Medical authority
as a Vitalising Blood Restorative and Tonic.”
ss. 6d., 10s. od., 21s.
pr Goods forwarded to all parts of the colonies
and Price Lists sent post free.
160 PITT STREET* SYDNEY,
Two Doors below Compagnoni’s.
To the Merchants and Producers
of the Australian Colonies.
IN view of the coming Wool Season, I beg leave
to offer my sincere thanks to my numerous
friends for their support and confidence hitherto,
and to assure them and all who may favour me
with their business, that I am now in a position to
do the fullest justice to their interests on the
LOWEST possible scale of CHARGES. My whole
time and experience may be relied upon, and with
my efficient staff of assistants and salesmen, my
constituents may still depend upon every possible
attention. _
My UNRIVALLED NEW STORES at Darling
Harbour, adjoining the Railway Terminus, will be
ready for the coming season, and will, with my
EXTENSIVE WAREHOUSES at Circular Quay,
enable me to receive and SHOW TO ADVANTAGE
ten thousand bales weekly, without any fear of the
disadvantages so often arising from want of
STORAGE ACCOMMODATION, now that our
railways bring wool to Sydney so quickly.
During the season two sales will be held weekly,
one for lots of four bales and under, the other for
larger parcels, so as to eusure every attention to
each lot, no matter how small; and every lot,
small or large, will be. as hitherto, carefully ex-
amined and VALUED BEFORE SALE, and, if
required, reports sent to owners, and in all cases
owners may depend that each lot will be protected
up to FULL MARKET VALUE.
I will continue to MAKE ADVANCES on goods
for sale, and to PAY OVER PROCEEDS of sales,
in all cases, within a week of each sale, or, when-
ever required, on DAY OF SALE. I can also offer
every advantage to such of my friends as may
wish to have their wools sold in London.
All our steam companies, or forwarding agents
at railway stations, will RECEIVE AND FOR-
WARD wools on my account, and pay carriage or
other expenses; and any BANK or firm HOLDING-
LIENS on wool will, if asked, ALLOW OWNERS
to SEND THEIR WOOLS TO ME for sale or ship-
ment.
At my second annual wool show in March last,
the following gentlemen, amongst others, SE-
CURED PRIZES, viz. Andrew Murray, Esq., of
Bannockburn, Inverell; W. Reardon, Esq., of The
Oaks, Gundagai; and John Hurley, Esq., of Kil-
laneah, Burrowa ; and as I purpose OFFERING
PRIZES each year still, I hope my friends will pay
attention to the quality and preparation ol their
wools. Too much care now cannot be given, not
only to the quality of wool, but also to its prepa-
ration for market, and this advice applies equally
to the smallest, as well as the largest clips. All
who wish to make the most of their wool wi’l do
well to take care at shearing time, and keep sepa-
rate fine wool, coarse wool, ewe's wool, wether a
wool, black wool, wool of long staple from wool of
short staple, and, as far as possible, burry wools
should be kept by themselves, and all bellv wools,
locks, pieces, &c., should be carefully taken off
each fleece, and baled or bagged separately. A
great deal could be said on this subject, and I shall
be glad to communicate with any person desiring
further information.
For the last two or three seasons, prices in Sydney
have been at least equal to London prices, and
with the regular attendance of so many buyers for
American and Continental accent, as well as lor
our English manufacturers, this market may now
be relied upon with every confidence; and from
the increasing quanties now sold in Sydney each
year, it is plain that our growers are fast losing
faith in the London market.
To such of my friends as may send sheepskins,
tallow, hides, hair, horns, bones, leather, &c., to
this market, I wish to mention that my stores at
Circular Quay are specially adapted for these lines,
and that no trouble shall be spared to deserve the
very liberal support I have hitherto received.
SALES OF FAT STOCK conducted three times
a week at Homebush and in the city.
Way-bills forwarded, and every information
supplied on application. JQHN
June 30, 1883.
Emil Paterson,
ARCHITECT AND CIVIL ENGINEER,
NO. I PITT STREET.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal, “Jo ”... •• • • Vide p. 10.
Opera House. “ King’s Dragoons ib.
We don’t see the good of writing any
more— chieflv because she is waiting at the corner;
?)id wc think, besides, we may as well give the
£ros I rest-for one week. In our last issue we
vc thesi/.e of “Jo’s” foot: next week we will
ffve tho dimensions of Burnett’s hand. Agents
will please give early notice of extra oiders.
** * *
The following letter was received by Mr.
Armlpbv. while he stage-managed a certain Aus-
X n theatre, and was lent by him to somebody
*5“ Absorbed and copied it for tho benefit of
nin lftin readers:—Adelaide, March Ist, 1883. Mr.
Armleby Sir,-I writ these Few lines to you to
~£ P you how i can bo an Actress For I very much
uke to be one. Mamma has put me to Dressmak-
ing and Tailoring but it is of no use I cannot study
nothing but Piacces for the stage I have com-
nossed and worite to Plays named the Gipsys
r&mn and Lady Mauds Secrets. My dear bir do
not think me forward in Writing to you For
Actresses should not be shy Do not say I am to
young tobeone For 1 will be 16, on the24th of this
ADril I will not earn my liveing has anything else
hut an Actress If I can help it, My dear Sir I would
lik to bind myself for Four or, five years to you or
some of thVCompy Do not be to Proud or to
offended at me has not to Answer my letter and
let me know at once this is a peeace of my own
composing—
the rose bud and the rose.
The rosebud that blooms to-day If Plucked will
Droop to morrow. Then leaf by leaf will soon-
pecay And leave its rose to sorrow, so iik that
PROPRIETOR (encouragingly): “ Here you are, Gents! All Prizes and no Blanks! Try yer luck! ”
MR. SMITH (observe Smith); “No good shying at that thing. It’s got no features.”
Little bud there bloomed A babe so pure devine
The Mother lik the rose was doomed to see her
sweet bud pine
It lingered yet with angels care and on it hevean—
Smiled that Mother watched in silent Prayer
Thee slowly dicing Child, then came the somones
From Above with Angels soft and low that Mother
Yield up with her love her first her only Child
The Great, I amra in mercy hath his loveing
Kindness shown in taking nance my
Little one to number with his own
Address—Miss W. A. M. Mushwood, G.P.O. Ade-
laide. Wilhelmina Adrienne May Mushwood.”
** * *
There is nothing new under the sun —or,
perhaps we should say, under the moon. “ Jo” at
the Royal, still. And “ Jo” with a Guppy that is a
crusher. Now Mr. Warner, who is an intelligent
young gentleman whom we have heard singing
doleful comic songs with much Man, should know
—or be taught to know —that Guppy is not a cha-
racter of the music-hall type; that in the book he
never dressed in a white flannel jacket or chess-
board pants: and that vulgar as he was, he was
never a swell of the “ Champagne Charley” order,
and though often obtrusive, never demonstratively
farcical. Guppy was a cad, but he didn’t know it.
Mr. Warner represents him as a mad cad who tries
to be madder than he really is. This is not art.
We don’t know what it is; but it is not art. And
if we have a predilection for anything, it is to see
an artistic performance. We would freeze all
night on a doorstep to see a clever conception.
And we have often, be it said, sat on a doorstep
all night, knawing a bone; but we have hardly
ever seen an artistic performance. We have Mr.
Warner’s welfare at heart. He is young, and, we
daresay, virtuous. That’s why we want him to
improve. And he can only improve by studying
his author. We don’t mean Mr. Burnett. A man
of less decided talents. You know who it is.
Don’t let a pin drop while you read this.
The Gaiety Theatre lease was sold for £3OO, and
John Bennett bought it. John, by the way, is
always buying things. We were up at Parramatta
one day, when we saw him purchase about twenty
miles of country- We went up ourselves to buy
the same block, but, as we could only show one-
and-ninepence, they wouldn't take Our bid. Well,
Verdi, it seems, has taken a sub-lease from Ben-
nett; and is to open in English opera. The prima
donna—and this is an affecting thing—is Miss Alice
Rees. They are to produce “ Carmen.” Verdi, we
may mention, is looking quite more splendid than
ever. He seems rosier, and is certainly fatter.
He only arrived yesterday, and yet his mail was
twenty letters and packets. Twenty! And they
contained everything from diamonds to coke-
dust. We know there was coke-dust in one of
them, because we sent it ourselves. We wish Mr.
Verdi a prosperous season. We consider that the
style of entertainment Mr.—hold on, Signor—
Verdi intends to introduce is about “Carmen” in
at the right time.
** * *
The opera of our old friend, Crook, is
running along a good deal better than we thought
it would. It is not its intrinsic merit, but the
merit of the performers that pulls it through. The
dear Ivanova is in her own pretty person a suffi-
cient compensation for any amount of tinsel in the
Siece, not to speak of that other lovely loadstone,
liss Kate Chard. Anyhow, the “ King’s Dragoons”
is a draw, and when Mr. Dunning puts on that
sparkling opera, “The Mounted Police,”—as the
Rum calls it—we shall all be happy.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Power, the bushranger, has been informed
by the Yictorian penal authorities that he must
serve his full sentence....“ The Indian Corn Doc-
tor,” arrested at Brisbane on Wednesday, wanted
in Melbourne. Charge, fraudulent insolvency....
Queensland sheep numbered at 11)4 millions—A
prisoner named Jackson escaped from Orange
Gaol on Tuesday. Comptroller Maclean’s up-coun-
try jugs are precious leaky —When it was cabled
that the natives of Borneo had massacred the
entire staff of the North Borneo Co. at Aumour,
the Herald simply called this “ unpleasant news.”
Of course, quite " unbecoming.” — Bishop Selwyn
says the Florida islanders now honoured and re-
spected men-of-war. Wouldn’t hated and dreaded
be more accurate? The Manning River Times
man has been writing a defence of euphemistic
phraseology. Evidently he wants somebody to
call him an editor A question which arose at
Townsville assizes with reference to the age of an
aboriginal girl, who had been assaulted by a white
man, was- decided by a medical opinion based on an
examination of her teeth The Kea is a New
Zealand bird which settles on the back of sheep,
and pecking through their skin causes their death.
’Tis a sort of Waxm-no Waxbird, in fact; and the
Government are to be asked to provide a sum to-
wards its extermination Thomas Davies used to
see Mary Ann James home from Wesleyan Church
(she lived at Ross’s Creek, near Ballarat), and now
David James wants £5OO damages from Tom on ac-
count of his impassioned attentions to Mary Ann.
Infallible statistics make it abundantly clear that
seeing girls home from Church is an expensive
amusement all round... .Alf. heads a par. about
Devoy of the Nation having been sent up for 60
days for slander “ Conviction of an Editor ” (in big
tvpe) as though ho (Alf.) were staggered at the
idea of an editor having convictions—Brisbane
Daily Observer for sale Registrar General
Jordan, of Queensland, resigned: w. T. Blakeney,
late Deputy Registrar, succeeds him Mark this
ad. from a Melbourne paper: “Wanted im-
mediately, an idle, drunken bookkeeper. The
advertiser has had so many steady clerks whose
1 character for sobriety and honesty ’ has always
been undoubted (according to testimonials), that
he would like to try one who owns up to drunken-
ness just by way or a change. Apply, &c.”. ..Near
Normanton (Q.), Mr. Fred. Fogarty’s horse, a very
young one, fell and rolled on its rider, crushing his
life out. Mr. Fogarty was but 33, and a native of
Maitland, N.S.W “Garranny” was out of it
when she talked the other day of the Austrian
provinces of Riesen and Gebirge, in happy forget-
fulness or ignorance of the fact that the Reisen-
gebirge is a range of Bohemian mountains... The
Pitt-street (Sydney) Congregational Literary Asso-
ciation have decided that Shakespeare was not
the author of the plays usually assigned to him.
The immortal William may now git 1 His hash (not
to mention some one else’s Bacon) is definitely
settled.... Master Tommy Bartlett, of Stockyard
Creek, aged 11, last week explored the Inside of a
dynamite cap with a pin. One of his hands now
missing Shaving the law close : Paying sixpence
for a threepenny scrape, and cutting it out with a
glass of the barber’s rum.... The London Engineer
considers that the verdict of the Victorian Board
in favour of the Woods’ railway-brake was opposed
to the evidence Two French convicts, making
for Queensland, killed and eaten by the Islanders.
Out of the fire into the frying-pan.... Yass Quar-
ter Sessions (before the Macfarland): James Boon
pleaded guilty to forging a cheque, and his Honor
having (according to the Courier) pointed out to
prisoner the enormity of his crime, sentenced him
to two years in Darlinghurst: and if, at the end of
twelve months, prisoner sent in a petition for a
remission of sentence, he would recommend his
discharge. Where does the enormity come in ?
It’s this sort of judicial tomfoolery that makes the
roguo laugh in his sleeve, and the common sensieal
citizen to blaspheme—Soldiers and sailors in
uniform mustn’t wear the temperance blue
ribbon A much needed measure Is a Cata-
I ulter Nuisance Prevention Act. Since to
work such a statute would require an army of
inspectors, there’s some chance of it being passed.
Bills that savour of patronage and billets usually
meet with support on both sides of the House—
Alex, liicharason, ex-Mayor of Armidale, told
District Surveyor Chard that he (Chard) was study-
ing his own convenience without caring for that
of the public in reference to the site of the
Armidale Lands and Survey Office. Next day
Chard asked Richardson to withdraw the expres-
sion. The latter declined, whereupon the surveyor
“ let the ex-Mayor have it,” for the which assault
the local bench fined him £2.... Astronomer Russell
has been devoting attention to t he star of Bethle-
hem question, and can’t see anything in it—Body
of a newly-born infant wrapped up in a Pro-
testant Standard was found on Saturday last at
Melbourne in a railway carriage from Wodonga...
Applications called for for positions ot Head
Master of Public High School for Boys, Sydney,
£6OO, and. of Head Mistress of Public High School
for Girls, Sydney, £4OO Dillon and Co. won’t
grant renewal of the license of any bonifaoe who
is proved to have employed people about his hotel
for the purpose of watching the police in order to
evade the law .. John Derrick, a Victorian farmer,
blew his brains out on Thursday last. He was to
have been married on the Friday following 1 , but of
the two evils he chose the less— Better late than
never. At the last Progress meeting, Temora, a
letter was read from the member for the districts
announcing with pardonable pride that the Bar-
medman telegraph line would now be proceeded
with without delay. This, of course, was received
with screams of laughter, as even the cocka-
toos up that way know the work is already
half completed In a late Sydney Mail ap-
pears " A Journalist’s Tale,” which is an
exact transcript from “Tangled Hanks,” pub-
lished in Sydney Punch some time back .....
Colonial Sugar Refining Co. about to build another
big mill at Ba (Fiji)....George D. Miles, of Am-
herst (Vic.), succeeds Mr. Bonynge as Headmaster
of the High School, Levuka. Bonynge, if we mis-
take not, used to run the Public School at Wagga.
George Miles used to be a crack rifle shot.. George
Smith, of Levuka, made a J.PI First appointment
of the kind since annexation. Civilisation making
its way with a J.P.-d f-mith in its train A cashier
of M'Ewan and Co., of Suva, sent up for eighteen
months for embezzlement brigade Sergeant
Major M’Ewon (N.S.W. Voluntoer Artillery) pre-
sented last Saturday with 50 so vs., subscribed by
the officers of the Regiment, in appreciation of his
23 years' good service New wharfage association
operations commence Ist prox. They’re expected
to break London brokers’ monopoly —James
Crowley of Bungendore, was on Monday evening
last, examining an uncapped but loaded gun by
candle light. As ho blew down the barrel, the
barrel blew up, and an undertaker had to bo called
in to wind up the investigation John Murphy,
formerly M.P. for Monaro, dead. A plain straight-
forward man The eight new assistant school in-
spectors, are James Nolan, Luke Bloomer, C. J.
Pitt, and A. A. Lob ban—teachers holding first-class
certificates, and H. M’Clennan, J. Fletcher, Stuart
Wright, J. D. St. C. Maclardy graduates of Sydney
University Last meat shipment per “Orient
reached London in fine order Durant and Co.,
Australian export merchants In London, suspended
payment. £so,ooo—The Marquis de Kays’ appeal to
a higher court dismissed.
* m a
Latest Yankee idea in steamers: the dome-
decked 4000 ton-er, calculated to carry 600 saloon
and 2000steerago piissengers, and 500 tons of express
matter, across the Atlantic in live days, and so con-
structed as to right herself in the water if launched
upside down— In England there is one general to
every 1759 men; in France, to every 1566 men; in
Germany, to every 1451 men; in Italy, to every
1407 men; and in Spain, to every 518 men. In the
United States as it used to was, and in the Grand
Duchy of Hauf-Schwillen-Schrappen, there is one
full private to every 215 generals United States
War Department authorities maintain that to par-
don Sergeant Mason (who tried to shoot Guiteau)
would destroy army discipline, and army discipline
must be maintained. Mason’s wife seoins quite as
little disposed to aid in any legal efforts which
might result in his liberation. She evidently likes
the anomalous position of a female free Mason....
Boats fitted with the Whitehead spar torpedo being
built in England for N.Z....New Royal Colonial
Institute buildings to be erected in London....
Disastrous floods in Austria.. .Deficiency expected
in French wheat orops.
A veteran toper, who has handed in in-
numerable contributions to the Central funds,
reckons himself the most re-fined party in town.
A schoolmistress in a Western town
depresses young Australia’s desire for informa-
tion thusly: “ Now, just you go and sit down, or I’ll
shove the cane down your throat.” Fact.
Hop Bitters has restored to sobriety and
health perfect wrecks from intemperance. Peruse
all.
Two boys were sleeping together; one was
Catholic, the other Protestant. When they woke
in the morning, the latter thought to get a rise of
the former. “Oh!" said the one, “I had a horrid
drame last night.” “ Well, tell it to us,” said the
other. “Well, I will.” said the Protestant boy;
“ ye see, I drained that I saw Purgathory opened
and all the Papists fall down into Hell.’ n Och,
murder I” exclaimed the Catholic boy; “the poor
Protestants—won’t they be crushed!”
In Winward Reade’s book, the “Martyr-
of Man,” he throws out a conjecture that, with
the progress of sanitary science, man will invent
immortality. Now comes the great statist, Mr.
Humphrey, whose calculations have convinced the
Spectator, and proves that, during the past thirty
years, the longevity of the British public has in-
creased two years for men; and, for women, three
years and four months. We love figures, and pre-
suming that the increase will continue, we find
that, if we were born in 2383, wo should have a fail-
show to live to the age of 183 years. But we are
1300 years too early. Now, if our parents had
only ... ~,


BRIEF MENTION.
Anderson versus Fair Facts.
Postmaster-General Fawcett won’t sanc-
tion a parcel-post to the colonies. The colonies
must force it.
The Sydney Volunteer Fire Brigades don’t
so much want putting on a proper footing as
under a good head.
A Kiama preacher urged his audienoe to
“ take the right side ” on the liquor question. We
have always considered that the right side was out-
side.
No. 5 of the Sydney University Review
has been unavoidably delayed, the immense weight
of several of the artioles having jammed the
machinery.
The Frenoh lost no men in their bombard-
ment and seizure of Tamatave, the principal sea-
k swiiSL y //
"* iW w “'hrttei
J\h<i WreYow ha\/p Ike
tmc( °H
pf t° tl)at”hf as
Ih 3umr>o tk<,
» abjene« *4
laf |»» s r o ;
u |afnny rt)y jood
Sha?| < * r> - * am 3 0 ' n ‘J tc fut-oiop ctnol '
>nL , rnoreY k»«of
a Y c *»nl hot jOwr l ' f~
kHe , l i
kp/J fj[
5?A*. &*■
,( >f tw,>, I , r "“< a ' 1
on fL B ' ,T°se }L
Am
'ejv. p fc el°>Aj \yJ
AAZ ’ k V - l ' l, !tcT .„'
k 4».
", r + UHIIL \V^WR±siygSrs^MSteSwß
/“;* **, ’ p Sef 1 n
NTI ei fl a . 4 & «r *-0^
Co^V\ ,P '* 1 * 9 ' l<< ‘ 1 he,s "»«* «iU>-ou.T\Ct
THr I—mi1 —mi i— rrr r ■
<* *«■*’■ r « c^„f i
I/.jo Mit'ovi'np eypo/ q i-, 10
y H\«»n ar ' Pr'o.t\'\o p.^/0
His °t- ■ f ‘ y
t'loWj, VvWe cWV«* "V K\y^
w o »Ke4 ( ki t^
IvU^pt
c biskj, Kmr'llfo.
h 'yr^“ l ' V
' - Xoun i “
A LAY SERMON.
port of Madagascar. This is only two men less than
the British lost in the affair at Alexandria; so that
the capture of Tamatave seems to have been almost
as glorious a viotory. It now only remains for the
Chamber of Deputies to vote Admiral Pierre £20,000
and an annuity for two lives, to put the two events
on an equal footing.
A Marabout is preaching a religious crusade
against the English in Egypt. But that’s nothing.
It’s only the other day that the 8. M. Herald
preached a crusade against the Irish.
Were a return called for of the names of
all the fellows who got free passes to the Federal
Feed as pressmen, it would be discovered that a
good few got the necessary pasteboard under false
pretences.
The champion industrious man of Australia
is the Viotorian who, while engaged in stone-
cracking, saved £l6OO. We’ve known men to
break stones for years, and yet Save nothing.
They were in gaol.
At the reoent opening of the Royal Na-
tional College of Music, London, our “ Mr. Wales”
pointed out “ what ought to be the guiding star of
a true musician’s career.” We can tell him what
it is out here—sfar-vation.
Minister Reid intends shortly to hold a
review of the Public school pupils under drill.
Should this Public school review in any way re-
semble the Sydney Udiversity Review, ’twill
be a mighty dull affair—not worth Reiding, in
faot.
The most suspicious man in the colony lives
at Milparinka. The chemist there sold him some
stryohnine, and he doubted whether it was genuine.
So he tried it on the chemist’s dog, The poison
worked all right, but the man has never called to
compliment the chemist.
Aocording to a statement made in the
British Medical Journal of 1000 persons who
have reached the age of seventy, there are thirty-
two soldiers and.twenty-four doctors. Which is a
clear proof that the battle-field is safer than the
surgery. Doctors are deadly, even to themselves.
School Inspector to Small Boy : “ Where
does your father live?” Boy: “Behind Felton.”
Inspector: “What’s his name?” Boy: “Mister
Smith.” Inspector: “What does he do?” Boy:
“ Shepherds rams for old Jim.” Inspector: “And
who is ‘old Jim’?” Boy: “Why, long Jimmy
Tyson, a-course.”
The Herald’s calegrams are of such an
extraordinary character at present that we must
shortly expect something like this:—“ (From our
own correspondent.) London, June 26th. It is re-
ported from Ireland that the world has come to an
end.” Next day it will be:—“London. June27th.
The report (from Ireland) that the world has come
to an end has turned out to be slightly incorrect.”
For “tone,” Queensland is pre-eminent.
Not so very long ago, a shingle used to be hoisted
in the Brisbane Botanic Gardens, and on it was
inscribed the following legend :—“No dogs or
soldiers admitted.” And to-day the tariff-notice
pasted on the Mackay raoeoourse gate reads :-*■
“Horsemen, 15.6 d.; foot-passengers, Is.; Kanakas,
6d.” Let us hear no more about Southern slavery
after this.
The fencing of the Wilcannia cemetery is
broken down in many places; hence horses, cattle,
pigs, and goats walk around as they see fit; and,
what is worst of all, no effort is made to keen the
Protestant stock distinct from the Roman ditto.
To see a Wesleyan pig rooting near a Hebrew’s
grave, or a Papist’s cow chewing the cud alongside
an Orangeman’s sepulchre, these are the heart-
rending spectacles that add a fresh bitterness to
death.
At Mondrook, N.S.W., on a recent Satur-
day night, a small farmer bought a pair of super-
fine elastic-side boots. He required them for Sun-
day, and to stretch them filled them with com and
water, and stood them outside. In the morning to
his horror, he found two of his young pigs inside-
one stucklin each;boot. The boots had to be ripped
up to free the pigs. The farmer has now had his
door made wider with a view to bringing his feet-
coverings inside and keeping them in a safe plaoe.
This is the latest from Bungeroo. The
blacks there got so drunk that they couldn’t hold
their corroboree. The editor of the local rag was
very severe on this; but he forgot to point a moral
when the member, the Mayor, tne blacksmith, and
the sexton were all too dyspeptic to attend a ban-
quet given in honour of the 75th anniversary of
the trooper’s aunt. But, then, you can’t always say
what you like in this country. That’s why we ad-
vocated an increase in the salary of the judges.
[Hum I— Ed. B.]
An ingenious Brisbane man invented a
new temperance drink, the other day, and supplied
all the bars—sale or return. The profits being
large, the publicans rather pushed the stuff. But
the sale has fallen off. The liquor didn’t receive
unqualified approval. One evening a bushman
had it shoved on to him, and took it down. Then
he seemed to meditate. “What’s the price?” he
asked at last. “ Sixpence,” replied the lovely bar-
maid. clanking her diamond earrings. “Tnere’s
ver sixpence, he said: and then producing a shil-
ling—“ and here’s a bob extry if you’ll pump the
blank stuff out of me again.”
Mr. Blank is secretary for a benevolent
association in a Southern city, and the owner of a
cottage and seotion which he sometimes rents to
poor people receiving outdoor relief from the
funds of the institution. The relief in question
consequently frequently consists of payments to
himself of the sums due by the poor persons to
whom he rents the premises. But he had, besides,
another claim on their affections. In spring or
early summer he prefers to have for tenant some
broken-down person who is just able to plant the
section with a good crop or potatoes, and who
fondly hopes to eat the fruit of his labour in the
autumn and winter seasons of the year. But the
secretary decides otherwise. Before the crop is
ready for lifting he finds that this particular cot-
tage is urgently required for some more pressing
case of destitution. The potato-planter is com-
pelled to flit, and some poor widow and her hap-
less progeny take his place. Then, indeed, the
shining perfections of this benevolent secretary
reveal themselves in all their pristine beauty, as at
early morn and at dewy eve he and his son,
and a four-pronged fork, may be seen toiling
away digging up these potatoes, carefully hoarding
them in sacks, and afterwards conveying them to
his own home, where true charity with him always
begins, and, for the matter of that, always ends as
well. If the poor cripple who planted these pota-
toes, or the poorer widow who has succeeded him
in the tenancy, were allowed to gather and eat
them, what a terrible encroachment on the rights
of “jproppity,” what a blot on the civilisation of
the 19th century, such a transaction would be!
But, no I Thanks to the devil, it has not come to
that.
Let law, religion, arts, and commerce die,
But spare us still the rights of property.


The teacher of a State sohool at Gordon
/Vic) found that no child in his fourth class had
heard of those two important pimples, Mounts
Sinai and Ararat, and that only three had heard of
Noah The latter were all Roman Catholics, and
it was not quite certain that the Noah they had
heard about was the genuine one after all, as the
“own-up sister of one of them had run away with
a man named Noah Muggins some time before.
This is getting serious. Mature people, as a rule,
" I [?] a bottle in her re[?]."
The Gill-bird season.
“ I could do the bottom of a chair
They were taught to sum up—or rather to do sums
“Mrs. Anderson denied that she ever wore
such things.”
“Boys complained of having to
carry tubs of water up a
steep hill.”
“Some of the books in the library did not seem
suitable for young boys.”
I was afraid she would shoot through the hole in the top of the cal).’
“Once a boat came along while I
was bathing, and I ran out of
the water.
“I could swear it was not a smelling-
bottle.”
“The boys were constantly scratching.”
“A distinguished medical practitioner thought
the dormitory ceiling rather low.”
“Any boy caught playing in the bush with a boy
who had the itch would catch it!
ANDERSON v. FAIRFAX. A FEW POINTS FROM THE EVIDENCE
know a good deal too much of Noah and his mob.
The original person of that name, it will be re-
membered, was the gifted imbecile who put no
gangway to the ark, and having crept into his tub,
was mean enough to nail up the one window, and
pull down the blind. He it was who, if report
speak truly, seeing the enemy of mankind floating
by on a crate, mocked him with unmerited vin-
dictiveness. But he mistook his mark. Is it not
recorded that, being insultingly refused admission,
the devil, smarting under the boss mariner’s inhu-
manity and badinage, threw back the insults with
many personal allusions to the patriarch’s eyes,
adding, with not undeserved bitterness, “To Hades
with your old hulk I—it’s only a shower, after all.”
Mr. Britten, a struggling Bega selector,
has, according to the Cooma paper, been around
the neighbourhood buying turkeys, and paying
from 7s. to Bs. per pair for them to sell in the
Sydney market. Mr. Britten camped at Berridale
one night. He travels on foot with the birds, and
he can walk 17 miles per day. Monaro turkeys are
not bad walkers. The excessively muscular con-
dition (out of deference to our landlady, we don’t
say toughness) of the turkeys at our boarding-
house has filled us—well, not perhaps with admira-
tion, but certainly with wonder, for some time
past. “Too muchee walk about,” as the North
Queensland blackfellows say when they get hold
of a working bullock. Now that O’Leary has
been twice beaten by Edwards, we mean to try to
f et up a match between the Yankee und a Monaro
urkey.
“ Breed ? Ah, my dear sir,” said the bank
manager, “your notions are exceedingly unbusi-
nesslike.” The boss of the usury shop was quite
right. His notions regarding breed were indeed
strange, for he held that breed has as much effect
on men and women as on horses; and having,
beside, a large oredit balance to his name, did not
care a solitary water-conservator how the manager
might receive his ideas. Continued that (as usual)
highly vulgar-looking and thoroughly underbred
functionary: “Yes, my dear sir, one would think
to hear you that without blue blood a man were
not fit to enter society or occupy any responsible
position. Utter nonsense, I assure you. Breed ?
A b-reed—a ‘broken-reed’—see a.joke? Ha! ha!
What could breed have done for me ?” Then the
other responded very slowly and distinctly: “ Well,
Mr. Overdraft, it might have made you a gentle-
During the great floods at Balclutha (N.Z.),
a few years ago, the “ Doctor,” locally and affec-
tionately known as the “ Dock,” heard fearful cries
as of someone drowning in front of his house,
which was surrounded with water. Hastily throw-
ing down the ace of spades and seizing the trick,
the “ Dock ” sprang to his feet and rushed out on
the verandah. It was getting dark at the time,
and he could just discern a white object, which
gave vent to the most heart-rending cries of dis-
tress, being carried down by the current near his
house. Without a moment’s delay he plunged
into the boiling abyss of flood-water, fully sixteen
fathoms deep (or less), and emerged in a few
minutes dripping from head to foot, with his own
pig fondly clasped and grunting in his arms.
“Hoor-ah! hoorah!” shouted the gathering citizens
with one voice; “the old ‘Dock’ has saved his
bacon after all.” And he did. That pig is still
shown to visitors at Balclutha as a porker plucked
from a watery grave.


“P.L.M.” writes on mashers, with the
“ tranquil immobility” of one.
In 1882 the total number of letters posted
in N.S.W. was 27,438,200. Of these about 25,000,000
were headed “To acc/ rendered.”
The Bishop of Melanesia, when exhausted
with fatigue in his work amongst the islands, takes
brandy modioinaily, hot with lemon.
The text of “Edinburgh’s” paper, which
“ Wales " read for his brother at the Fisheries Con-
gress on the 19th was “ All’s flsh that oomes to my
net.”
The Argus and Age have both sent ex-
plorers to New Guinea. The natives are quite
indifferent what papers they represent, provided
they are fat.
There have been wonderfully high tides in
Port Adelaide. It is imported that the editor of
Punch, who is on a visit to Melbourne, had dipped
his feet into Hobson’s Bay.
The old story: Dick Loob, station hand,
earns money like a horse on Goodabendgal run,
spends it like an ass at Temora pubs. The spree”
over, D.T. supervenes on the lambed-down Loob —
in which state he severs his jugular. No cards.
Combo, a darkie, is under arrest on a
charge of murdering a half-caste boy, the son of
his gin. He held the child under water until it
was drowned. Ho should have done that to his
gin when the child was born. There is no law to
prevent a man watering his gin.
The Mayor has determined not to award
any more prizes for first water played by fire
brigades on occasion of alarm of fire. The ’arries
of the volunteer organisations, who are naturally
much harrassed in mind by this action of Harris’s,
say he is not by any means a gem of the first
water.
The new offices of the Mining Department
are Lincoln’s Inn Chambers, rental £2OOO a year,
payable to the erectors of the said Chambers, the
Financial Building Society. There’s an aroma of
tiddliwinking about the arrangement which we
would like to see analysed, just to see Watts in it,
d’ye see ?
Washington Soul announces a powder
wherewith to make light bread. Ho should
“stash” that announcement, and seek to deserve
eternal credit by putting on the market a powder
wherewith to secure full-weight loaves. That’s
what’s wanted. Any ordinary baker is equal to the
light bread manoeuvre with or without powder or
soul.
P.L.M., in the continuation of his history
of Artillery in the Herald, oughtn't to omit refer-
ence to tho brilliant attack made by Mr. William
Hunter in June, ’B3, on the guard-room of the
Paddington Barracks, in which affair a detachment
of gunners were circumvented, and a sentry
placed hors tie combat by an insignificant-looking
fellow with a revolver. P.L.M. might also suggest
the advantage of detailing bobbies to serve along
with bombardiers, in ordor to arrest attacking
parties, and otherwise afford protection to the
“ übiques.”
Somewhat acidly yet with much truth the
Yass Courier says:—“The records of the Insol-
vency Court of New South Wales, so far as they
are known to the public, reveal this much, at all
events, that Official Assigneeism has been tried,
and found wanting; that honest debtors have been
£ lunged deeper into the mire; that creditors’ assets
avo been wasted or peculated by thousands upon
thousands of pounds sterling; that scoundreldom
(whether that of the fradulent insolvent or of the
roguish assignee) has alone benetitted; that, in a
word, what should be a temple of commercial
justice, is a den in which it is difficult to tell
whether Fraud, Corruption, or Incapacity works
the most iniquity!”
Tom Walker, the Freethinker, has been
prominent lately in Melbourne. He summoned a
grocer for pushing him off a platform which he
was mounting to speak at a meeting on the Sun-
day Observance question. Tom contended it was
a “public” meeting, and, therefore, claimed a
right to speak. The defendant pleaded the meeting
was only for those who desired to protest against
Sabbath desecration, and, therefore, Tom wasn’t
“in it.” The magistrates debated 45 minutes, and
then dismissed the complaint. Tom Walker, who
conducted his own case without a lawyer, imme-
diately said he would carry the case before the
Supreme Court, at which the court applauded.
He was a native of an island in the Atlantio
Ocean, and was elected on a school committee in
Otago. A hot discussion took place over scholastic
affairs, in which frequent reference was made to
the school as the “ main school ” of the district.
“ Shnre, now,” urged the new committeeman, per-
suasively, “it’s meself that can’t see any raison
for calling this school a ‘mane school. I see
nothing mane in it, although we don’t pay any
school fees. Shure, if we don’t pay the fees aren’t
we’s all taxed to kape it up by the Government?”
Loud applause and laughter followed this brilliant
protest, and good humour once more presided at
the meeting.
He was a new-ehum Presbyterian divine
labouring in New Zealand, and was for the first
time in his life the proud possessor of a horse—the
gift of his admiring congregation. His figure
astride the astonished quadruped was not all his
admirers fancied, nor was it all his fancy had
painted the position for himself, but he stuck to
the seat, nevertheless, through thick and thin.
Having the horse fairly broken into his ways, as he
imagined, he one morning rode him to the banks
of the Clutha, in front of the Court-house, where a
crowd of people had gathered for an election. For
half an hour or more he wrestled with the animal
trying to get him down to the river side, and the
crowd wondered greatly why he wanted to swim
the river when a good bridge was close at hand.
At last one of them guessed how matters stood,
and cried out: “Oh, he don’t want a drink yet,
master; he ain’t thirsty, he ain’t.” “Ah,” replied
the minister, “ that may be, my friend, that may
be; but I want him to have a drink.” “Well,
parson,” said the other, quoting proverb: “One
man may take a horse to the water, but it’ll take a
good many on us to make him drink if he don’t
want to.” The crowd guffawed, the divine wheeled
about and rode through Balclutha so fast that the
ladies of the borough, seeing him pass in such
hot haste, thought surely the minister was off for
the doctor.
In the early days of a certain Northern
town, two constables who were in charge of that
station used to dispense among the Chinese who
comprised the bulk of the population a rude and
profitable kind of justice which “took well and
gave pleasure to all,”—at least it gave pleasure to
tho constables. They used to levy a tax of £2 per
week on every Chinaman who ran a fan-tan shop,
and ten bob a head on every one who kept a—par-
lour maid. If any Chinaman failed to “dub up”
on Saturday nights, they either seized the fan-tan
implements or himself. When they seized the fan-
tan tools they kept them till the Chinaman released
them, in the meantime taking good care that he
did not get a new turn-out and start a lresh
shop. But when they seized himself (which
was always the quickest way of making him
“dub up”) they at once proceeded with much
solemnity to try him for “gambling without a
license.” One mounted a chair, with a bible in one
hand and a drawn sword in the other; the other
brought up the Chinaman before him in handcuffs
and log-irons ; all the revolvers and rifles in the
barracks were slapped down oh the table with an
emphasis that used to make the “ prisoner ” bound
up in the air like an old kangaroo; and, amid the
rattle of chains and tho clash of swords, he would
be fined £5, or three months in gaol. His country-
men would then make a collection for him, and pay
the lino. In a short time after the Chinamen would
bo lotting off crackers in honour of their eouutry-
nnin’s safe return, and the constables would be
nudging each other in the ribs and dividing the
“ tine” over a bottle of brandy in the leading hotel.
After tho pair were shifted to remote districts, two
other officers took their places, and they could not
understand what the Chinamen meant by coming
to them for “gambling licenses ” and—well, other
licenses ; and it was fully twelve months before
the Sub-inspector saw the joke, and began to
smell a rat.
An Answer to a Correspondent
Pinchgut Gully, writes as follows:
“ My lot has been a poor one, and my way
Has la in in Poverty's deep darks and hollows,
Obscure from Fortune's glad delighting ray.
The chink, of coin—sound sweeter than
Apollo's
Charmed lyre—has seldom with its music
o«y
Made my heart joyous, and, a life of sordid
Base want my every effort lias rewarded.
For years I've struggled honestly and vainly
To win a fairer portion, but, alas!
Adversity still shows her front ungainly,
And all my palaces of rainbow glass
Are shattered; so I write 'to tell you plainly
Pm tired of being honest, so —1 pass.
Can you oblige me, through this column,
sonny,
With some straight tip of getting hold of
money?"—
“We can—get half a stick of Stockholm tar in
A jar, and give the filly croton oil;
This shows at once how many yards there are
in
The tank you mention, let it slowly boil;
The theatre was hired for both to spar in,
Not as you hint; see article on ‘Soil
A private usually salutes his Colonel."
(See recent number Down and Gumtree
Journal).
Poor P. J.B. ! Thou, too, in quest of riches
Wouldst wander from the straight and
narrow track;
Wouldst climb the height, untrammelled by
the hitches
Of Conscience, which keeps ever looking
back ?
Come —we will tell thee a|new method, which,
is
Undoubtedly the best card in the pack :
A stunning notion which, succeeding greatly,
Is quite a fashionable fangle lately.
Quit manual toil—this climate’s much too
tropic,
And fencing is a line that early cloys,
And grubbing yields a wage too microsoopio;
Let up on these, and, with a wiser choice,
Change the bucolic for the philanthropic,
And round up half-a-dozen pallid boys;
Then get some rich old mopokes to acknow-
ledge
An interest in your budding Orphans’ Col-
lege.
’Tis easily managed; send your wife about on
The mission—as a glove ’ twill suit her hand;
’Tis always well to send a female scout on
Such raids as this, for ladies can command
Such looks as serve for hooks to tlx a
Troutou;
Such sighs as bring a Windeyer to land;
Such modest mien and matron grace as even
May quite win over a Sir Alfred Stephen.
Of course, such names would give your in-
stitution
A healthy shove, and all the world would
think
Your wife a woman of high resolution
To undertake her heavy cross, nor shrink
From lending energy and elocution
To mercy’s cause, and you could safely
wink
To her at eventide, o’er foaming Bass’s,
And say, with Carlyle, that most men were
asses.
As for the College—well, let’s see. You’d need
to
Have something with a roof on for a start;
Mere luxuries you wouldn’t give much heed
to
(You say that making money is your dart).
Most schools are much too elegant, indeed, to
Give strong direction to the youthful
heart.
Rig up a workshop—(let your names be
tallish),
Where homeless lads may learn to wash and
polish.
Be very careful, when you fill indentures,
To name no trade therein, as all such things
Prove rather hazardous to rising ventures,
And make them hop along with curtailed
wings.
Be studious that the boys ply easy trenchers,
And take no notice of mere bites or stings:
When one is bent upon amassing riches,
What matter about sandfly-bites or itches?
Then, with the workshop in its pomp dis-
arming
All outside question, boldly take your
stand;
Go for cheap labourers and orphan-farming,
Teach infant prodigies to grub your land;
And get your missus, who (abroad) is charm-
ing,
To stump the colony with horse-leech
hand,
And scoop the rhino, which you can invest in
Philanthropy, or anything you think it’s
best in.
As time goes on, you’ll certainly be able
To sport more horses, and you’ll find a way
To save the cost attendant on a stable,
Of all that it requires, save corn and hay;
In this alone the orphan will be payable,
And grooming horses will be simply play
To ardept youth, who fancy it a slow thing
To make their beds and wash their under-
clothing.
You won’t be troubled much by your “ Com-
mittee”—
Such cheerful buffers have no time to spare.
(You mustn’t have your College near the
City),
They’ll take your word that everything is
fair;
You must, of course, invite the Press ban-
ditti,
And have a luncheon and a drop of
“square;”
There’s nothing so disarms a writer’s trun-
cheon
As skilful blarney, “sawder,” oraluncheon.
Now, lean your ear down, P.J.8., and
hearken,
This is the straightest tip of all the lot:
Get some reporter—pick a real good mark on,
Who will not stop to “ liquor ” from your
pot—
And all things looking just as they should
not;
what’s truer than the Bible,
Go in for heavy damages for libel.
Note. —In consequence of our deep respect
for the the Fijian libel law, we have substi-
tuted blanks for the best verses and lines of
the above. We deeply sympathise with our
talented contributor.—Ed. Bulletin.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
{.Correspondent* who give neither name nor nom-de-
plurne cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“ Wellington Hall No; the only people
who go to heaven now, and we speak on wnat
should be the best authority, are those kind, bene-
volent, disinterested creatures, whose names ap-
pear in the Herald, periodically, thus:—
“Mission to Whiten Aboriginal
Souls.—Mr. Rudolf Alonso Con-
rad Smythge (oil and colour ware-
house, Jumbuc-street) 10s. 6d.”
“Frank C.”: You haven’t let us into the secret of
your joke. Send along again Axe-
work, not poetry, is your forte, old fellow ..
Thanks “Lismore”: We can’t say
anything about him—he’ll get a “ stopper” shortly.
“J. M.”: Very good, indeed. But we’ve had to
strike out the criminal libel “ Cannibal Creek ”
(Q.) : Received “ G.Y.P.”: Yes, if good enough.
“Taree”: On consideration, too not..“W.J.”:
Write to someone who advertises in this paper.
We believe you can now get a bicycle on time-
payment, just as you can get a sewing-machine or
a piano. But bicycles sometimes buck, and we
don’t say you can also get a time-payment wooden
leg —“Burke”: Of course the Echo’s wrong—
Lord Augustus Loftus isn’t a peer...t.E.W.B.”:
What’s the use of writing such bunkum, when for
the price of a nobbier a day a man can insure his
life for £500? “Verax”; Send us some more
when you can spell January....“ W.A.D.”: Will
use shortly E.W.S.”: Strongly Swinburnian
W. 5.8.”: No ; unless the Hallelujah Bills have
also a hand in the burglary vineyard.. “Moore
Park ”: You, as a bicyclist, have hitherto depended
for celebrity on your legs. Judging from your
literary productions, we strongly recommend you
to continue to depend for fame upon that end of
your anatomy "D.E.” (Melbourne): You have
evidently a very mean estimate of The Bulletin.
Clearly understand, we have not yet got brain
softening “A Mercantile ”: The Clubs have no
rule laid down, but hitherto it has been the prac-
tice to allow the winner of maiden and junior oar
races in other colonies to start in a maiden race in
Sydney “ W.H.M.,’: We are not in a position to
give you any information “G.F.H.S.”: Poetical
ideas only; very indifferent construction ..." J.D.”
(Dungog) : We really can’t see what you’re
“surging” at “Stanthorpe”: You are right.
We omitted an execution. John Delahunt was
hanged in Dublin, sth Febuary, 1842, for the mur-
der of one Thomas Maguire. According to Haydn,
Tite’s and Delahunt’s executions are the only ones
recorded as occurring in Dublin since Emmett’s
in 1803.
We are desirous of procuring short stories
of colonial interest, not exceeding one Bulletin
page. We are also desirous of receiving communi-
cations from ladies on subjects of social interest.
For such matters we are prepared to pay liberally.
Suggestions for sketches are always welcome.
Clergymen, Lawyers, Editors, Bankers,
and Ladies need Hop Bitters daily, for nerve force.
Read.
315 George Street,
A few of our undertakings MOST SUCCESS
FULLY carried out, among which will be found
the LARGEST, MOST DIFFICULT, and MOST
RESPONSIBLE events that have taken plaoe since
the opening of this establishment.
His Worship the MAYOR’S PICNIC, for 450, at
Clontarf.
His Worship the MAYOR’S BALL, for 1600, Exhi-
bition Building, at which his Worship, John
Harris, entertained their R.H.’s PRINCES AL-
BERT and GEORGE, EARL CLAN WILLIAM,
and the Officers of the Detached Squadron.
MASONIC BALL. English Constitution, for 1252,
Exhibition Building.
MASONIC BALL, N.S.W. Constitution, at Town
Hall, Sydney.
Visit of their R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Lithgow Valley Mines and Zigzag.
Dinner d la Russe, for 60, in Government Palace
Dining Car while travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000 SCHOOL CHI L-
DREN—re Queen’s Statue Demonstration—under
VERY SHORT NOTICE, only receiving the
order at 2.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot at 12.30
p.m. the following day.
Visit of THEIR R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Captain Cook’s Landing, south side
of Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon and refresh-
ment, for 100, under VERY SHORT NOTICE, re-
ceiving order at 9.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot
at 1 p.m. following day.
The LADY MAYORESS’ RECEPTIONS, Town
Hall.
The UNION CLUB BACHELOR’S BALL, at ExhU
bition Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE WINDEYER.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE INNEB.
Dinner A la Russe at St. Paul’s College, for 150 Mem.
bora of the CBURCH OF ENGLAND SYNOD.
Dinner A la Russe to the INTERCOLONIAL RIFLE
TEAMS, Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at HAWKES-
BURY RACES, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at RAND-
WICK RACES, in Grand Stand.
The CONSULAR DINNER, in our new Banquet
Room.
Banquet at CAMDEN, Tramway Opening.
ARMIDALE RAILWAY Demonstrations. Bar*
quet for 400: MAYOR’S BALL, 600, same evening
and CITIZEN’S BALL, 500, the following even-
ing.
Dinner to the PRESBYTERIAN SYNOD.
Breakfast to the CONGREGATIONAL SYNOD.
ST. VINCENT’S Hospital Ball.
THE MERCANTILE Rowing Club Ball.
Numerous Banquets and Entertainments by HIS
WORSHIP THE MAYOR at Town Hall, &c.
Numerous Dinners d la Russe in the N.S.W.
GOVERNMENT PALACE DINING CAR, while
travelling by rail, on account of the GOVERN-
MENT.
Together with a numerous lot of Private Dinners.
Feasts, Weddings, Garden Parties, Balls. Tea
Meetings Land Sales, Suppers, Picnics, Fishing
Excursions, &c.
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION,
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT, WEAK-
NESS, &c.
PRICE 2s. 6d.
Prepared by A. G. KEBBLEWHITE, Chemist, &c.
43 ERSKINE STREET.
Sold by W. H. SOUL, and all Chemists.
KOUMISS! KOUMISS!
THE GREAT MILK DIET.
CURES
Indigestion
Heartburn
Debility
&c. &c.
wm s
-Cfo
CURES
Diabetes
Bright’s
Disease
Consumption
&c. &c.
REGISTERED TRADE MARK.
K 3?“ KOUMISS is not a quack remedy, but is
prescribed and used by all the leading Physicians,
and will POSITIVELY CUBE the above complaints.
We cordially invite the public to call at our office,
BOND STREET, and judge for themselves
of the EXTRAORDINARY TESTIMONIALS al-
ready to hand from well-known citizens. Reference
is permitted to all the leading Physicians, also to
the following: The Lady Superintendent Childaen’s
Hospital; Rev. G. Macarthur, King’s School, Para-
matta; Alderman R. Butcher, Mayor.'of Woollahra;
Duncan M‘Kay, Esq., Whittingham; Augustus
Morris, Esq.; Rev. J. J. Carroll, St. Augustine’s,
Balmain ; Rev. Z. Barry, St. Matthias’, Woollahra;
Capt. Rountree, Balmain, and many others.
EVERY\
MAM |
SHOULD I
READ
BE. lAESIOI’B lEW WGBM.
A valuable book, describing how suffer-
ers from Nervous nnd I’hvtlcul Debility,
Mental Decay and all disorders result-
ing from Excesses, Indiscretions or
. Overwork, are permanently Cured
* WITHOUT STOMACH MKDICATION.
Weak, nervous X Impotent Men reilored to
VIOOE, HEALTH AND MANH3OD.
Consultation and Hook free. Address—
MAKSiON KZMEDYCo., 353 Qaorga St.
SYDNEY.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 15th June, 1883.
PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOL FOR GIRLS, SYDNEY
APPLICATIONS will be received at this office
. for the position of HEAD MISTRESS in the
above School. Salary, £4OO a year.
All applications must be in writing, and accom-
panied by testimonials as to qualifications and
character, and must be sent in on or before the
9th proximo.
It is to be understood that the engagement may
be terminated on either side after three months’
notice, dated from the beginning of a quarter.
G. MILLER,
Acting Under-Secretary.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 15th June, 1883.
PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOL FOR BOYS, SYDNEY.
APPLICATIONS will be received at this office
for the position of HEAD MASTER in the
above School. Salary, £6OO a year.
All applications must be in writing, and accom-
panied by testimonials as to qualifications and
character, and must be sent in on or before the
9th proximo.
It is to be understood that the engagement may
be terminated on either side after three months’
notice, dated from the beginning of a quarter.
G. MILLER,
Acting Under-Secretary.


When W. J. Foster read Owen’s speech and
came to the quotation: “Laborare estorare,” he
muttered, “ True, how true 1 hard labour it is to
er-er-er-are.”.. - • Dick O’Shaughnassy, M.P. for
limerick, who was, according to a cablegram, to
succeed the late Sir A. Kennedy at Brisbane, is a
Home Ruler.... For the adequate protection of
the aborigines, a Board composed of active intelli-
gent men, or rather several district boards so com-
I was leaving the office of Public Shirks,
worn out with the daily toil which withers
us civil servants in early bloom, when I
caught sight of Deboots, an old school-
fellow, whom I had long lost sight of.
I always hated the sight of Deboots, who
used to bully me frightfully at school; so
I hid my face iu my paper.
It was no go. He saw me, and hailed me
with effusion. What was I doing with
myself? A civil servant. As for him—
living on his means; some lucky specs,
and so forth. But where could we go and
have a chat ?
He linked his arm in mine, and talked about
old times. To hear him, you would have
thought we used to be bosom friends. In
fact, I found him much altered, and all for
the better.
He told me of the splendid society he mixed
in; related his successes on the turf, and
offered to put me on to a good thing—a
dead certainty at 15 to 1. Not caring to be
drawn in to anything risky, I explained
that all the money I had, 1 was saving up
to buy an allotment of land, and that I
didn’t wish to waste a single shilling.
Won by his frank cordiality, I opened my
heart, and confided to him a few matte i s
about the office, and about the Heads of
the Department who have always had a
down on me and have kept back my pro-
motion.
We plunged afresh into old times, and when he learned the names of
my chiefs, it came out that, by the most wonderful luck, he was
acquainted with nearly all of them—had met them at Government
House—and a word from him would make promotion a certainty.
From this moment all my prejudices melted away. I asked him to
“have something,” and he accepted on condition that I would lunch
somewhere with him.
Just then we met a young lady of his acquaintance, and to my great
delight he prevailed on ner to lunch with us.
Such a spread! The wine imparted extraordinary vivacity
to my spirits. The young lady gave proofs of a rare dis-
crimination.
Unluckily, when the waiter brought the bill, Deboots dis-
covered that he had forgotten his purse, and I could do no
less than offer to lend him the money.
And here’s a week gone, and no
word of repayment; and the
Under-Secretary has just sent
for me to let me know that my
associations with bad characters
have been brought to his notice,
and that he has felt it his duty
to knock off the estimates sub-
mitted to the minister a £5O
increase he had recommended
for me.
posed are needed; and in lieu thereof, the Govern-
ment have appointed the three fossils—smelling-
bottle Thornton, Dick Hill, and P. G. King, and the
two red-tapeists, Fosbery and Robison, burely this
is a very aboriginal way of protecting anybody or
anything. • • -G. H. Reid has ordered that the Parra-
matta Orphans shall have plum “duff” on Sun-
days. Who will now say George Houston isn t a
duffer.
John Bright admits that his acousation
against the Tory party, of having formed alliance
with Irish rebels, was too general in its application.
The Albanians have annihilated the Turkish
battalions sent to enforce cession of land to
Montenegro Zulus have assegaied several Ger-
man missionaries. They say they have cwwez guides
without sich pastors Countess de Chambord
very ill. French Orleanists uneasy, since, if the
Countess dies at the present juncture, the Count
may marry again; and if he marries again he may
have a son (he is only 63), would, after hte
father, be the legitimate Pretender to the Throne.
.... Truth declares that half the signatures on the
landing of 300 British marines, had its origin in the
fact that the Greeks wanted to burn the effigy of
Judas Iscariot, and the Arabs objected to Judas
being submitted to such indignity. The apotheosis
of Judas is evidently at hand. . An Egyptian
marabout preaching a religious war against the
Christians.... Home Government have deferred
question of appointing a Cabinet Minister for
Scotland French in occupation of Tamatave;
Hovas fled into interior. Admiral Pierre has been
notified from Paris not to advance upon Antan-
arivo The only outrage at the Czar's coro-
nation was the offer of advice by the Mayor of
Moscow to grant reforms. The miscreant was
promptly punished. The story will get into his-
tory not precisely in these words... Eight “invin-
eibies” arrested for the murder of Mrs. Smythe,
in West Meath... .Irish R.C. Bishops promise com-
pliance with papal instructions Gourko suc-
ceeds Medem as Governor of Warsaw China
refuses to cede the suzerainty of Anam to France.
The Pope means to refer the difficulty between the
Papal See and the Irish Catholics to a special com-
mission. How about the statute of Premunire,
should the commission sit in Ireland ? The Pope
protests against the clerical polioy pursued by the
French Government... Queen Ranavalo 11. said to
have been dead these past six months.
A cheering cordial for the despondent, and
the onJy stimulant which can be safely introduced
into the sick-room or used for hospital purposes is
the celebrated Wolfe’s Schnapps, the purest
spirit in the world.


PEPPER AND SALT.
At the Melbourne City Council, Councillor
Wilks moved that “it is not judici us to re ove
the Yarra Falls.” We have been in Melbourne,
and seen the Falls. They are near Elizabo h-street,
and are more than eighteen inches high. It is
always a ticklish thing to remove a fall—especially
when there is a nice face behind it. It is not every-
one who can be trusted to shift a cataract. It will
be remembered that some spiteful persons tried
more than once to shunt Niagara on to the British
Government, but the B.G. had too much business
in hands at the time—John Brown was alive then—
and so, naturally enough, took a firm stand against
any more falls. And this bciags us to Melbourne
and the Yarra. Of course, Sydneyites can afford
to be proud, and a bit offish and. contemptuous
like. We have our Harbour and the Zigzag, Dar-
linghurst Gaol, Dan , Sir , and Larry Foley,
so that we are not a “ circumstance.” Still, a
man’s a man if he were in a bottle; and Wilks
(hurrah for Wilks!) thinks that obstruction, even
in a river, may be of service. But these Wilkses
were always an odd lot. Wasn’t there a splay-
footed, knock-kneed, pockmarked, swivel-eyed
chap of that name, who boasted that if he got a
ten-minutes’ start with the prettiest girl in Eng-
land, the greatest dandy within the four seas could
not cut him out? Of course there was; and he
afterwards gave a deal of trouble to the Lord’s
anointed (Farmer Georye—God bless him!) and
but enough of these historical recollections. He
had a fall, too. like his Melbourne namesake, and
we only hope ne enjoyed it half as much.
It has been suggested that, as Conserva-
tives wear primroses in their button-holes in
honour of the memory of Lord Beaconsfield,
Liberals should sport either “Sweet William” or
“ Collar-flowers ” in honour of the grand old man.
In a similar strain, we would suggest that N.S. W.
Parkesians should deck themselves with Glad-
I-O-U-las in honour of the member for Whereat.
• •
The “Chios” imbroglio is only beginning.
The picture- a nude girl—was lent by Dr. Fitz-
gerald to the trustees of the Melbourne Art
Gallery for exhibition. Numberless comments—
from the rhapsodies of msthetic students to the
prim slip-slop of outraged old maidenhood—were
made upon it. Many of them found their way
into print in the columns of the Argus and other
journals. Then the doctor walked off with his
beautiful painting—but not before photographs
were taken. These were issued as a “supple-
ment” the Melbourne Bulletin. A Kyneton
tobacconist exhibited one in his shop window,
thinking, nrobably, that if the original were
innocuous the diminutive copies would be equally
so. Foolish man! Joe Brady and his “ Invinci-
bles ” hacked a couple of innoffensive men to
death, and were hanged. Frederick and Napoleon
butchered millions, and were universally respected.
A Kyneton “bobby,” Sergeant Manson, less of a
idealist than the tobacconist, ordered the imme-
diate removal of poor “ Chloe.” There is a screw
loose somewhere. The question of propriety is at
last adjudicated on by a rural policeman! We
would like to know more of Manson—we know
enough and to sparo of “ Chloe.” Infelix “ Chloe J”
You can fall no lower. To have the exquisite
nudity of your exquisite limbs objected to by a
policeman f Faugh I
• •
Two circumstances we learn with almost
equal pleasure. The forthcoming release of Mr.
Barker, of Adelaide ; and the conviction and sen-
tence (six years penal servitude) of Louise Michel,
of Paris (France). It will be generally felt that in
the incarceration of Mr. Barker, society has lost
an ornament. He was a man of genial tempera-
ment and lavish hospitality. There was nothing
about him that was mean, or degraded, or paltry.
He conducted his business on an extensive scale ;
and succeeded for a very long time. And it is
(should anything in the world be considered so)
worthy of remark that all the time he succeeded
he was “ universally respected.” We know this,
d'aUeurs, of our own knowledge. Well, they have
remitted half Mr. Barker’s sentence ; and if they
do a few more things like this in the world, we
shall begin to respect it. Mr. Barker was convicted
of conspiring to cheat, and what some ungenerous
people would be disposed to call conspiring to
murder. But we are not ungenerous, so we don’t
call it that. And the reason that we are not un-
generous is because we are so poor. There is a
short story written, in two parts, by the late Mr.
Charles Dickens, who, we may as well inform our
readers, is the author of “ The Pickwick Papers,”
and other tracts. In this story (which is intensely
dramatic) one man insures another man’s life, and
then tries, by feeding him on salt provisions, and
dosing him with alcohol, to kill him. But all the
time the intended victim only pretends to take the
food and liquors ; and in the result the would-be
murderer comes to a bad end. This causes us to
rather lose our opinion of Dickens as a student of
human nature. When he held the mirror up for
the reflections in that story, there must have been
a Jew picture-hawker present who was smoking a
bad cigar. In four months Mr. Barker will be
again a member—we had almost said an estimable
member—of society; while the man with the im-
maculate parting, who tried to poison the hero of
the story, is dead. We don’t know what Barker
will do when he comes out; but it is expected he
will either take to the pulpit or the stage. What-
ever he does, we are sure he will prosper. Espe-
cially if he take to the pulpit. Ana this brings us
to our subject. They manage these things worse
in France. Or better. You can choose. Louise
Michel has just got six years for having the
THE DOG AND THE SHADOW:
“The Hon. F. A. Wright said he had given up a business appointment of £1750 per
annum to become Minister of Works.’
courage of her opinions. Serve her right! We
had the courage of our opinions once, and we had
to pay £4OOO or more for it. The moral here is ob-
vious. Don’t have the courage of your opinions ;
but conspire to well, to do several things.
And be happy.
Someone died lately, and ever since he died
he has been wrestling with his tombstone. He was
demurely lowered down, but they wonldn’t let him
rest. Hardly had he got on speaking terms with
the other corpses, than someone wrote this about
him in the B.M. Herald death column:—
“A loving husband, true and kind,
He proved to be in heart and mind;
A tender parent, too, as well,
When he on earth with us did dwell.
But now his spirit it is fled.
And he is numbered with the dead:
He in the silent grave does sleep,
And we his loss do mourn and weep.”
We live Dear the Necropolis, and are on terms of
respectful intimacy with several corpses. We don’t
mind saying that we have been mean enough to be
friendly with skeletons merely to avoid paying
threepence for the Tribune. We arrived, in
this instance, at the graveyard just as a compact
collection of cadavers was discussing the forth-
coming fate of the Ministry ; and we could not
fail to be seriously struck with the urbanity of the
dead men in affording one another skull-accom-
modation whenever the henbane was called lor.
We were seated on a grocer’s grave, blinking at
the moonlight, when the evening papers arrived.
We had declined, for the first time in our lives, a
drink. It was nux vomica; but still we felt sad.
Then we watched while a departed elocutionist
read out the paper. We didn’t watch long. Only
until he had pronounced, with fine effect, the first
four lines of the poem. Then the moonlight grew
dark with collar-bones, and we were hit with a
skull harder than our own. We left at this point;
and we left the subject of the lyric still protesting.
We expect—and how pleasantly this varies the
phrase—that he is protesting still.
• • •
Here’s a religious item, true as gospel.
In the early days of Bowen (Queensland) Father
M’Ginty (everybody has heard of jolly old “Corner
Allotment”) got a Cardwell boy from Murray—a
Eure myall, known in his native lingo as Thurla-
oona. Father Mac couldn’t think of “lavin’ him
a haythin,” so he converted the boy, and christened
him “Peter,” at the ceremony solemnly warning
him as to what he might expect hereafter if he
forgot his Ave Maria and Paternoster, and exhort-
ing him, whatever else he did, to abstain from
meat on Fridays. To all which, Peter promised
faithful obedience. Next Friday came, and the
priest found the boy (he had his camp at the
end of the old chapel) deeply engrossed in his
simple culinary operations. Curiosity prompted
inspection. Stepping over to Peter’s Are, imagine
the reverend gentleman’s consternation when he
found that his proselyte was engaged in grilling a
chunk of fine steak, perhaps two or three pounds in
weight. “ Pater, ye blackguard, what s that ?”
quoth the priest; “ beef ? and this Friday!” “ Baal
that one beef, marmy,” replied the innocent Peter.
“ What, ye black haythen! would ye break the
commandments forninst me face, and tell me a lie
foreby ?” To which interogatory his reverence
got for reply: “Baal mine been tell it orammer
longa you, marmy; baal that one beef. You see.
good while ago mino been sit down longa Myall—all
same Thurla Goona; bianbi you been put it water
longa me, yabber Peter—me Peter, Daal Thurla
Goona. All same, before that one bullock; mine
been put it water, yabber ‘ fish ’ —that one fish!
Youi, marmy; that one fish—baal beef!” You
could have hoard the priest’s laugh across the Fiat,
at Keith’s store. Peter had his steak.
• •
Reading of Mr. Morrison going to New
Guinea, as the representative of The Age (Melb.),
reminds us of the time when we had the New
Guinea craze ourselves. This was years ago, when
we were young and reckless. We were in Mel-
bourne at the time, and made one of a party of
four who proposed to start a company to take
possession of the island. The other three pro-
moters were of a motley character. One was a
miner, a fine kingly fellow, with schemes as
colossal as his boots; another was a one-eyed but
enthusiastic dipsomaniac, whose idea of the ex-
pedition was that it would be a glorious mixture
of carnage and rum: the third was a man who had
at one time dined with Dukes and hobnobbed with
Right Honorables, but was then somewhat down
on his luck. He, by the way, was the only one of
the party who had ever been nearer New Guinea
than—say Rockhampton, at any rate. One day we
went into his office, and he proceeded to show us a
map he had made of the Northern coast line. His
office was in the back part of a block of buildings
in Collins-street. He stood at the far end of the
passage and unrolled the map. It reached right
out to the front door, and was then two hundred
miles short. He then pointed out to us a bay on
the Northern Coast which he had called Milne Bay.
In the middle of this bay was an island, and on the
island was the picture of a house with a brass plate
on the hall door with the name of our enterprising
friend inscribed upon it. According to scale, this
brass plate must have been about fifty miles long
by thirty wide. He used to speak of this house as
though it were an actual existent fact, and he
would in the course of conversation allude
airily to “my place in New Guinea.” He
had got, somehow or other, the hallucination
that the British Government had made him a grant
of 3000 acres of land in this locality, and he was
very anxious to sell it as it was the site of a town-
ship. But he never found anybody that would
trade. So, as a last resource, he proposed to start
a company—money paid in advance—to explore
the country and so bring a white population there.
He had marvellous tales to tell of the mineral
wealth of this wonderful island, and of the mys-
terious race of people who lived away beyond the
mountains in the unknown interior. It is quite
possible he invented these legends as he went
along, but we were all solemnly impressed with
them. It was decided in council that, when we
had conquered the country, we should make the
Government republican, and that we four should
divide the chief offices of State among ourselves.
There was a rather warm discussion about the
design of the flag we should adopt for our new
State, but we finally decided upon blue devils ram-
pant on a flame-coloured ground with two snakes
as supporters. A prospectus was issued, in which
it was shown in five colours that a man had only to
invest his money in this speculation to become a
blazing millionaire. Just then it seemed that
people with a little money by them had taken a
violent prejudice against sudden wealth, and, con-
sequently, we had only one applicant for shares all
the time, and he wound up by borrowing
the price of a bed from the dipsomaniac.
Eheu fugaces i Where are they all now? The
swivel-eyed dipsomaniac we saw a short time ago.
He was then making vigorous efforts to hold up a
lamp-post under the impression that he was a
standard-bearer, and dared not desert his post—we
mean his lamp-post. Our miner friend we have
not seen for a long time: probably he is now on
his way to Purgatory. The promoter and grand
commander-in-chief bled us most effectually.
He himself was, the last time we saw him, a
hotel broker without hotels. And we—by thunder
we are worse off than any of them. We nave been
writing, for your delectation, luxurious reader, all
day with a pen in one hand and a hammer in the
other, much like the workers of Esdras on the new
temple. We use the hammer to answer the door
with. The moment a man shows his face inside we
brain him, and bury his body in the back yard. In
the course of time we hope to be able to get rid of
all our creditors in this fashion. In the meantime
we warn Mr. Morrison not to touch our property
in New Guinea.
Certain bank managers, who were resident
for many years in a certain town somewhere south
of the equator, have lately been ffited and testi-
monialised ad nauseam on tneir removal to another
locality. Is it a mere coincidence that in that town
many business men are on the flit, stations about
changing hands, with other “strange mutations” in
the commercial world, at this particular juncture ?
Rumour says that a well-known telegraphic
official, late of Melbourne but now of 8\ dney, has
invented an instrument that will make “delayed
telegrams ” a thing of the past for ever. Poor
devil! His days are numbered. Jack must not be
as good as his master here, or, at least if he is, he
better keep remarkably quiet about it.
THE BURGLAR’S BRIDE.
He was but a humble burglar,
She a lass of high degree,
Famous but as a gin-gurgler,
And a flre-safe smasher he.
He in Sussex-street resided,
As was fit for one so low;
She at Darling Point abided,
Which for her was commeilfaut.
But they loved each other madly,
With a love that ne’er should cease;
Loved, alas, in secret sadly,
For he dreaded the police.
And he feared her haughty father,
Who would laugh his suit to shame—
Burglary was then a rather
Unremunerative game.
And her father, rich and grand, too,
Was director of a bank.
And would only give her hand to—
Weil—a. thief of his own rank.
So, you see, the course of true love
Kan as usual with these;
Though they didn’t learn to rue love—
Only bent before the breeze.
For this burglar, though but humble,
Had a high aspiring dream;
Though extremely rough-and-tumble
His ambition you might deem.
Little cared he for transgression
Of the law, but had a fine
Honest pride in his profession,
And an ardent wish to shine.
By his look you’d ne’er be guessing
That beneath an—do not start—
Outside so unprepossessing
Beat so soft and warm aheart.
But it did, and very loudly,
Every time his love he’d meet,
And would tenderly and proudly
Lay his plunder at her feet.
Lo, our pen it lightly hovers
Here, for mem’ry thrills us so;
We ourselves one time were lovers—
One time, very long ago.
And although, poor dear, we killed her
With a brick In course of time,
In sad moments still we build her—
Yes, indeed—the lofty rhyme.
Ah, those stolen moments—sweetest
Unto him that they were stole—
Strange they always give completest
Joy unto the loving soull
When the moon was brightly beaming,
They would watch her, hand in hand;
For his work was more beseeming
Cloudy nights, you’ll understand.
And each time they came to parting.
These two hearts that knew no guile,
He would take with him ere starting,
With a tender, thoughtful smile,
Anything that lay round handy
In the shape of plate, which ne
Said—of thieves he was a grandee—
Took as B ouvenirB, you see.
So the time wore on, and slowly
As it wore along, by stealth,
Though so humble and so lowly,
He accumulated wealth.
Then her haughty father boldly
Bearded he in his own den,
Who received him somewhat coldly,
But to whom he there and then
Told his tale of love. The old man
Looked him in the eye, did he,
And then said, “You are a bold man
But you are too poor for me.
“ You may have my girl with pleasure
And my blessing with it, too,
When you can show as much treasure
As I now can show to you.”
On the very next day, 10, there
Came the burglar back once more,
And he emptied out for show there
Notes and gold upon the floor.
Such a pile; the old man, weeping,
Went and called his daughter in,
Gave the maiden to his keeping,
And proposed to keep his “ tin.”
Ah, the poor old man had spoken
Words he never would repent,
For he found his safe was broken,
And he wasn’t worth a cent.
End of it: the burglar, rich in
Lands and goods, made her his bride;
And we think ’twas the Soup Kitchen
Where her poor old father died.
c <w
rumf
Prepared according to the directions e<. Prof.
B. N. Horsford, of Cambridge, Maas.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMKNBED FOR
DYSPEPSIA. HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA, WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS.
WEAKENED ENERGY, &C.
tar- No Danger can Attend its Use.
Great Relief by Its Use.
WINSLOW LEWIS, M.D.. of Boston, the distin-
guished and popular physician, said:
“Having in my ownperson experienced those
ills for which the Acid Phosphate is prescribed, I,
having found great relief and alleviation by its
use, most cheerfully attest my appreciation of its
excellence.”
Indigestion and Bladder and Kidney
Troubles.
Portland, Me., Oct. tod, 1880.
Horsf ord’s Acid Phosphate has become a favour-
ite remedy in my practice. When completely tired
out by prolonged wakefulness and overwork, it is
of the greatest value to me. I have given it in
certain forms of dyspepsia, in all cases of nervous
exhaustion from overwork, in certain affections of
the bladder and kidneys, and have always been
satisfied with the results. I prescribe it more and
more as I become better acquainted with its pro-
perties. Of all the samples «f medicine sent me
during the past dozen years, Horsford’s Acid Pho-
sphate is the only one I have ever found which has
become a necessity in my own household. Per-
haps I should hardly have been willing to write my
impressions of the Acid Phosphate if I had not
in my own person experienced its good effects.
C. O. FILES, M.D.
Derangement of Secretory and Nervous
Systems.
Rutland, Vt., Jan. 23, 1879.
While I am exceedingly averse to giving certifi-
cates, and almost always decline to do so. yet in
the case of “Hereford's Acid Phosphate, I am
willing to say, that, having used it very consider-
ably, I can testify to its great value in functional
derangements of the secretory and nervous sys-
tems. CHAS. WOODHOUSE, M.D.
fy Pamphlets, with full information as to the
wonderful curative properties of Horford’s Acid
Phosphate, furnished free on application to
BARRON, MOXHAM & CO., SYDNEY.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
Oil,
THE uEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
“ It Works like a Charm.”
It is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing poi..R as water quenches fire. It cures
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Bruises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lame Back, Bheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an internal remedy it tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colic,
Cbolera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Throat, and Dyp-
tberia.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL In the house, or on hand for immediate use in
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers in
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported into this country, and have
gained throughout the colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmiugs are of the best No. 1
leather, and the upholstery is unique
BECAUSE the bo -1 of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their finish
BECAUSE they are oach and all built under special
instructions to. and personal supervision of,
one of the leadi og carriage builders in America
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use 1 hem say they are the
best.
American Carriage Emporium,
WYNYARD SQUARE, ->YDNEY.
BARROnTSo.au AM & CO..
Sole Agents.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
r We shall be glad to have this index posted up by
1 secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general .]
RACING.
Bowen T.C. (Q.) June 27, 28.
Rarringun J. C June 28, 29.
Burke District J. C. (Q.) Jnly 4, 5
Barcoo R.C. (Q.) July •*. (J*
Clarence River J.C. Annual July 11.12.
Rockhampton J.C. (Q.) July 12,13.
Clarence Tattersall’s July 14.
Deniliquin J.C July
Charters Towers J.C. (Q.) July 17,18.
South Warrego J.C July 18,19.
Great Western Towns J.C. (Q.) July 18, 19.
V R C. Steeplechase Meeting July 21.
Victoria R.C. Winter . July 21.
Goodiwindi Races July 25, 26.
Tattersall’s Club August 11.
Hawkesbury R.C August 23, 25.
A.J.C. Spring September 1,4, 8, 8.
Northern J.C September 19, 21.
Svdney Turf Club October 6.
Victoria Amateur T.C October 13, 20.
Victoria R.C. Spring November 3,6,8,10.
Parramatta J.C. November 9.
Clarenee River J.C. (Amateur) November 9.
AQUATICS
Glebe Rowing Club Amateur Regatta July 14.
New South Wales Association Regatta . .October 6.
COURSING
Viotoria Club July 18, August 22.
South Australian Club June 12, July 18.
Ballarat Club June 28, July 26, August 28.
N.S.W. Club June 28, July 31.
Australian Club July 27, August 29.
ATHLETICS.
South Grafton Athletic Sports July 13.
J. Aplitt v. T. M. Malone, 175 yards, £2OO,
Botany July 14,
Grand Athletic Handidap, Grafton Race-
course July 14.
Six Days’ Walking Sweepstakes, Sydney
August 6 to 12.
BICYCLING.
Sydney B.C. Sports August 4.
FOOTBALL.
South Melbourne v. Sydney Clubs, As-
sociation Ground : . .July 7,10,12.
South Melbourne v. New South Wales,
Association Ground July 14.
SHOOTING.
Victoria v. N.S. Wales, at Melbourne July 16.
Melbourne Gun Club Champion Stakes—July 19.
SPORTING- AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Why is a horse the most unhappy creature
existing ? Because so frequently “ the iron enters
into his sole.”
The first deposit of £lOO a side in conneo
tion with the intercolonial pigeon match, to come
off on 16th July, has been placed in the hands of
the stakeholder, Mr. W. Sayer.
The proposed match between Hearn, the
champion New Zealand sculler, and Harrington, Is
not likely to eventuate, owing to the scullers not
being able to agree as to where the match should
take place.
The Hillston Ananias went out shooting
recently, and when asked what he shot at, replied
a crow. “Did you hit it?” “Oh! yes.” “Weil, where
is it ?” “ I snot both legs off, replied Ananias,
“ and it flew over yonder and perched in a tree.’’
Fact.
At the Waimate (N.Z.), Steepleohase meet-
ing, Barbary won the principal event, Kosciusko
(the Grand National winner) being second. Out of
a field of six, these were the only two horses that
finished. Wildboy appropriated the Steeplechase
Cup, the crack Clarence, with 13st up, being third.
An Englishman shooting small game in
Germany said to his host that there was a spice of
dauger in shooting in America. “Ah!” said the
host, “ you like dauger mityour sport. Then you
go out shooting mit me. The last time I shoot my
brudder-in-law in the schtomack.”
Winter Steeplechase meeting of the Ben-
digo (Vic.) J.C. was held on Wednesday week:—
Hurdle Race: Fusilier, Wild Harry, Stormbird.
Telegraph Stakes : Omadaun, Terminus, Belle
Brandon. Handicap Steeplechase: Vaulter. Sell-
ing Hurdle Race ; Spring, Merry Maid, Little
Annie.
The London World accounts for the up-
ending of English athletes by the fact that “in
matters of sport Britons are now blast." Well, why
the biases didn’t the World tell us that, when Ivo
Bligh’s team trounced “Our Boys” out here, in-
stead of howling the kangaroo dirge and making
a national ass of itself in general ?
The following are the amounts, in round
numbers, of the sums put through the totalisators
by the various New Zealand racing clubs on the
Queen’s Birthday:—Dunedin, £3600; Lower Heath-
cote, £1400; Takapuna, £1000; Grand National,
Tiraaru, £7OO ; Wanganui, £4OO. It rained at every
meeting.
Edward Blackburn, who is matched to
wrestle Professor Miller on the 30th inst. c itqi-as-
catch-can above the waist, with the use of the jeas®,
tripping allowed, was born in Cumberland ri*r*i
He is sft. 7in. high. 42in. round the chest, w i •
13 stone, and is built proportionately. TI * has a
good record both in England and New Zealand;
The New Zealand Cup weights have beep
issued, but it is generally thought by sporting
scribes there the handicap is not a good one. Mata
and Sir Modred (the latter being now in Sydney),
head the list with 9st6lb. Bundoona has9stslb, the
crack three-year-old of the past season; Welcome
Jack, 9st 31b; Lord Burghley, Bst 61b; Jessie, 7st
121 b. Altogether, there are 66 at present in the
race.
The backers of Courtney are arranging to
pay Hanlan £lOOO to row a race with the U.S.
sculler, and the Hop Bitters Company have pro-
mised to add another thousand—or, as the cable
puts it, “a sculling match is being arranged be-
tween Edward Hanlan, the Canadian oarsman, and
Courtney, the United States sculler. The match is
to be for £lOOO a side, the Hop Bitters Company
adding another £1000.” It is to be hoped Courtney
will be able to find a whole boat to row this race
in.
The sparring mania has reached Louth,
where a match was announced to take place at
Morrison’s Room between two well-known ama-
teurs, for a £2O trophy. A goodly crowd gathered
to see the fun, but were doomed to disappoint-
ment, as the police put a stop to the proceedings.
This was pretty rough on the Louth sports, con-
sidering that the Inspector-General “took the
chair” at the recent Miller-Foley bout.
Mr. W. H. Brewer, in the American Jour-
nal of Science, shows conclusively how the trot-
ting horse of that country is a new species in the
course of evolution. The horse known to us does
not trot when it wishes to go at its highest speed,
but by artificial selection such a breed is being
evolved in America. In this new species, of course
the muscles are very differently developed and to
some extent the bones. The record in speed in
these animals is lessened—the time taken, that is—
every year.
Mr. Alfred Austin, of Dunedin, N.Z., re-
cently received from John Rayner, of Melbourne,
a challenge to walk young Scott a match of either
twenty-four or forty-eight hours for £lOO a-side;
the match to take place in Victoria. Rayner writes
that he would walk the match in N.Z. but for his
impression that he would not find backers in a
strange place. Young Scott is engaged in business
in Dunedin, and Mr. Austin has written that he
will give the sum of £lOO to be competed for by
Raynor and Scott in Dunediu, so that the difficulty
of finding backers will be overcome.
If common report is to be believed, the
London clubs are not in a healthy condition. It
may be gratifying to police-officers to have a new
field of duty open to them, but it cannot be a
cause of congratulation to fashionable coteries
that the presence of police-officers in their midst
is necessary. It is actually said that the clubs
have to employ detectives to examine every set of
dice used in the olub-houses. The inference is
that these establishments are visited by persons,
either members or guests, who have a penchant
for “ ringing in ” loaded dice.
Said an Adelong youngster to a well-known
fowl-fancier, the other day: “I don’t like that
small white deaf ear your so-called game cocks
have—they look to me as if they had been crossed
with the black Spanish.” “Well,” replied the
fowley one, “ they might have been, but you know
you can’t beat the Spanish fowl for fighting.”
“ Spanish good for fighting 1 never heard of such a
thing,” said Bob. r Whar, Robert, Spanish cocks
no good for fighting 1 Why, good gracious, did
you never hear tell of the Spanish Main ?”
At Miller’s benefit at the Princess Theatre,
Melbourne, H. M. Cansdell performed on the
parallel and horizontal bars and shouldered up
1301 b. The “Professor” is now trying to arrange
a match between Victor, the wrestler and athlete,
and what he—surely jokingly—terms Sydney’s
amateur weight-lifter and wrestler, for a gold
medal and a side bet of £25. Cansdell has been sail-
ing very close to the wind, and should this match
be arranged it is certainly time he dropped the
amateur business—not that he will suffer by the
alteration, for as things now go we should consider
our little pot as safe on a pro. as an amateur.
Here is the sort of trash that gorgeous
fossil, the Maitland Mercury, which prides itself
on being the leading provincial paper in the colony,
prints as an obituary rhyme on the death of
Tommy Moore, the jockey:—
“ It was on the 24th of May
Poor Tommy, he rode, his last day;
We all wish him to Heaven bona fide,
No more on earth a race he’ll ride.
The nature of the accident
Was very sad indeed;
No time was left him to repent—
Mayhap he did not need.”
If poor Tommy could only “ resurrect,” he would
undoubtedly make the mummy who edits the M.M.
beat the best record ever made by a thorough-
bred.
The performances of our footballers can
be depended upon about as much as those of our
amateur scullers. On Moore Park, last Saturday
afternoon, the Wallaroos—who have this season
been beaten by nearly all the suburban clubs—de-
feated the crack University team by seven points
to two. The ’Varsity men, as usual, take their
groats very badly; and say the umpire did not give
them fair play. The East Sydney v. Waratah
match, also played on Moore Park, resulted in a
decided victory for East Sydney by 2 goals 14
behinds to 1 behind. At St. Leonards the Redferns
beat the local team by 9 points to nil. And at
Burwood the Balmain-Burwood match resulted in
a draw, much in favour of the lpcal team.
The Morphettville (Adelaide) races came off
on Wednesday last, 3000 spectators being present.
Hurdles: Lady Carrington, Anon, Rifleman. Seven
ran. The betting was 7 to 4 against Lady Carring-
ton, who won very easily Selling Race: Cardinal,
Lawn, Hawthorn. The Cup: Israelite, Agitation,
Totalisator. Valerie, Mesalliance, Leap Year, and
Sardines also started. Betting was even on Israel-
ite, 3 to 1 against Totalisator and Agitation.
Israelite won by a length. Steeplechase : Tarax-
acum, Joker, Bob Cooper. Eight horses started.
The betting was 2 to 1 against Taraxacum, 3 to
1 against Bob Cooper, 4 to 1 against Joker, 5 to 1
against Premier. Taraxacum won by half a
neck. Premier fell. Handicap: Topaz, Country
Boy, Virtue. Ten started. The betting was 5 to
2 against Pride of Troy, 3 to 1 against Virtue,
Topaz won by a head. The same distance between
the second and third horses. Time, lmin. Sjjjsec.
Last Thursday our “Mr. Loftus” inspected
the celebrated “ trotters ” (not sheep’s) of Victoria
in the Albert Park, being chaperoned for the time
by Lord Normanby. Honesty, Ajax, Len Rose,
Contractor, Boccaccio, Defiance (imported), and a
crowd of colonial-breds, were trotted out before
him —double J. Miller kindly pointing out each
beauty’s good points as they passed. His Excel-
lency took a great interest in the close of the per-
formance, and expressed his opinion that if the
black-red Brama-Pootra Clydesdale were crossed
with the thoroughbred Arab Dorking the result
of the clutch would lay over anything this side of
the equinoctial line. Old man F. Robins, who was
tooling Defiance along, raised a roar by reining up
and informing His Excellency—“ This ’ere Defiance
is nineteen year old last foalin’; he can show a
record of 2 min. 191 see., an’ he’s fit either to haul a
plough or carry the missus an’ me t’ market.”
Then giving the veteran his head, the driver
screamed, “ An’, look here, I’ll trot th’ fastest ’oss
In th' colonies with him now; so, if yer on, old cock,
git out yer blessed ‘ duster.’ ’
Should Mitchell, the English champion, and
J. L. Sullivan meet in America, there may be a
chance of deciding the much-vexed question as to
what chance a first-class middle-weight would have
against a really good big-un. Many have been the
opinions of late days regarding the claims of Eng-
land’s pugilistic champions. It has been said that
Tom Sayers stood unequalled by any one of his
Eredecessors, but this would appear to come more
rom enthusiastic admirers than from cool think-
ing men able to judge in these matters. To us it
would appear physically unreasonable to expect
anyone or Sayers’ weight to have coped success-
fully against such men as Jem Belcher, Tom Cribb,
Pearce the “Game Chicken,” and many other big
men, not forgetting that 14 st. of strength and
muscle, Molyneaux the Black. Coming down to
a later date, take that surprising man, Jem Ward
—surely no middle-weight could have had
the slightest chance with him, nor did Randall
or Young Dutch Sam, even with their great
powers, ever think of looking above their own
middle-weight. Sayers and Mace were champions,
because in their day there were only a few stale
heavy men such as Paddock, The Tipton, and a few
others who fought young nfJddle-weights in their
prime and were defeated. When America sent
Heenan over to wrest the championship from
Sayers, after three hours’ fighting, the contest
ended in a draw, and immediately after Heenan
ran a considerable distance from the ring, and on
coming back deolared he was fresher than before
theflgnt. But mark the difference. When he fought
Tom King, he was in less than three-quarters of an
hour literally smashed, and lay on the ground
insensible, in a most deplorable and dangerous
condition. Surely this would show there must
have been a great difference in the two men
Heenan faced. In the palmy days of pugilism no
middie-weight would have had the audacity to
tackle a first-class big man; and should Mitchell
and Sullivan meet, provided the latter is fit and
well, we do not think it will be found that the old-
time dictum has at all altered.
Here is a gory story. On 20th April, near
Philadelphia, Jemmey Dewees, an ex-pugilist, find-
ing that one of two dogs which had been matched
to fight did not show up, offered to fight the other,
Grip, himself., This startling proposition was made
to a partv whose instiucts made them ready to ac-
cept anything in tne shape of what they termed
“ sport.” It was accepted viva voce, and prepara-
tions were at once begun for the unequal match.
Dewecs divested himself of everything save his
shirt and pantaloons, and his pockets wore turned
inside out to prevent the concealment of any
weapon. The dog Grip was thoroughly washed in
lukewarm water and milk, in the same manner as
though he were to meet a tour-legged antagonist.
Soon after midnight, Dewees, who ha 1 b wped him
self up with several drinks of whisky, j i ied into
the pit and announced himself read Jr Gi l >'s
handler followed a few minutes later be-
headed pet. Dewees knelt on one in tire
corner intended to have been occupied by “ Wel-
lington 2d.” No referee had been appointed in the
excitement of the moment, and half a dozen men
began yelling, “ Let him go 1 let him go !” the
moment the dog made its appearance. Baying
loudly, and with bloodshot eyes glaring, Grip
sprang forward the instant the handler loosed his
hold. Dewees met the attack by seizing the dog by
the throat. The handler then jumped out of the pit
and took his place among the spectators. Through
nervousness or lack of strength, Dewees lost his
hold, and in the twinkling of an eye Grip had
him by the calf of the leg. The man gave a howl
of pain as the brute’s tangs sank deep into the
tt sh, and he began pounding the dog on the head
wit l his lists. This produced not the slightest
effect, and Dewees made an effort to get at the
dog’s throat. I i this he was partly successful, and
managed to c iokg his four-legged antagonist
hard enough to compel him to momentarily re-
linquish his hold. Again did the man’s strength
give out, and again was he seized by the leg The
vicious brute seemed contenc to hang on and chow,
and paid no attention to the shower of blows
ra ned on his ribs by the frantic Dewees. The
spectators yelled and clapped their hands as the
man, almost mad with pain and rage, succeeded in
getting hold of Gripp’s foreleg, and twisting it
until it was dislocated at the shoulder. Then, witli
a mighty effort, Dewees freed himself from the
dog’s hold, and, as the maddened brute re-
turned to the charge, he received a kick under
the jaw, which sent him spinning against the side
of the pit. Dewees ran forward with the blood
streaming from his leg, and jumped on the dog’s
prostrate body. This almost finished the terrible
display. The handler leaped into the pit to rescue
Grip from what seemed certain death. Dewees,
thoroughly infuriated, kept kicking at and jump-
ing on the dog, despite the efforts of the handler
to prevent hun. Grip, struggled to his feet,
and, game to the last, fastened his fangs in
the leg of his would-be protector who liap-
Bened to be standing nearest. This gave
•ewees another opportunity, and he broke the
dog’s jaw with a well-directed kick. The specta-
tors cried, “Enough,” and the dying animal,
although valued at one hundred and fifty dollars,
was given his quietus with a black bottle. This is
almost up to “Amateur Casual’s” Man-and-Dog-
flght yarn.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
The foot-race between Adams and Scully,
at Armidale, was a hollow affair. Adams had it
all his own way, and won easily by six or eight
yards J. Elliott left Melbourne for India in the
Rome. He took with him the two-year-old colt
Goldfinder, a colt by Julian Avenel, and one or
two others of moderate pretensions. Mr. Maitiand
also shipped Gudarz and Sylvanus by the same
vessel, and both of these should pay their way in
India—Mr. J. T. Taylor's well-known stud grey-
hound Bumpkin, by Countryman—Energy, died
recently from inflammation. He was the sire of
Honour and Glory, and half-brother to the Sydney
celebrity Dark Rustic.. . On dit that the Narrabri
Racing Club will give away £lOOO in stakes at the
next meeting The sale of The Plunger for 1000
guineas to Mr. Hunter was not completed, as the
horse failed to pass the veterinai y examination re-
quired to ratify the purchase At a committee
meeting of the Hawke’s Bay (N.Z ), Jockey Club,
the disqualification was removed from P. J. Mur-
tagh the horse trainer When a horse has any-
thing the matter with the “ frog ” of his foot, does
it not naturally follow that he is Dound to “croak?”
Mr. H. W. Chapman, eldest son of Alderman
Chapman, caught cold in a cricket match at West
Maitland on 9th November last, and died from the
effects at Newcastle on the 17th instant
The Wentworth races took place on Thurs-
day last, with the following results:—Hurdlo
Race : Mayflower 1. Sires’ Produce Stakes :
Southern Light 1. Flying Handicap: Platinum 1.
Novel Race: Trickettl. Darling Stakes: Platinum
1. Maiden Plate: Dominic 1. Wentworth Convent
Steeplechase: Coomassie 1. Free Handicap: Ruby
1. Consolation Stakes: Conundrum 1 At the
Kensington Oval, Adelaide, in the presence of some
7000 spectators, the Essendon football team de-
feated the South Adelaide Club Mr. J. M. Curtis,
who recently purchased the Doris from Dr. Milford,
was last week elected a member of the P.A.Y.C...
Owing to the illness of Mr. Joseph Clarke, the next
meeting of the Victorian Coursing Club has been
postponed till some time during August —Last
year the two youngsters, Bernard Murphy and
Willie Franks, of Sydney, walked seven miles in
the Melbourne Hippodrome, when Murphy was
victorious. Willie Frank’s father wishes to match
his son against young Bob Murphy for a walking
match. To this Murphy’s father will not agree,
but will allow his son Bernard to meet young
Franks in a one or two mile race for £lOO, conced-
ing 50 yards in the mile, and 100 yards in two miles.
The Cooma Football Club has been resuscitated
under Southern Rugby Football Union rules....
Mr. G. W. Burston, captain of the Melbourne
Bicycle Club, recently rode from Ballarat to Mel-
bourne, via Geelong, in 9h. 50min., including stop-
pages, beating the best record—The Southern
Rugby Union has accepted the invitation to
send a football team to play in Brisbane—
Adelong Gun Club Pigeon Match: First match won
by C. Beegling, second and third both fell to J. Pass-
low . .. The well-known peds., Griffiths and Royal,
have taken to Rugby football, and play with the
Nepean F.C.. .The horse Dalesman and rider (Frank
Poff) have been disqualified for ever by the follow-
ing N.Z. Jockey Clubs: Canterbury, Dunedin, Ger-
aldine, and Amberley A dividend of £354 was
paid by one of the totalisators at the late Dunedin
(N.Z.) meeting over the trotting race. The only
investor was the rider of the winning horse In
the purchase of Billingsgate for stud purposes, Mr.
R. Thorpe, of N.Z., has secured one or the best
horses that ever trod the turf in Maoriland The
Wilcannia Times was rather in favour of the
Miller-Foley set-to, inasmuch as it would give an
impetus to pugilism, which it considered a desir-
able thing. We should like the Times’ opinion on
amateur boat-racing During his racing career,
First Water has changed stables six times The
Osborne and Oriental Cricket Clubs met on Moore
Park on Saturday last, in a match for the Furness
Cup. The Osbornes went in first, and when time
was called had lost 8 wickets for 132 runs A
football match—Carlton against Geelong—was
played on the Melbourne ground on Saturday last,
and resulted in a victory for Carlton by four goals
to two. Another match, South Melbourne against
Hotham, played on the same day, resulted in a
draw The first intercolonial match with the
Sydney footballers will be played at Brisbane on
the 15th August, and the return match on the 23rd.
One of our most knowing aquatic trainers was
“touched” to the tune of a “pony” over the late
Krug race. Tommy now says the ways of amateur
scullers are very peculiar At Adelaide, the
Essendon football team met the Norwoods on
Saturday last, on the Kensington Oval, and sus-
tained tne only defeat of their trip. The Norwoods
scored 5 goals 5 behinds to the Essendons’ 1 goal 6
behinds.
• • •
Professor Ayrton has invented a tricyle
propelled by electricity, and requiring no foot
treadles. It will run up-hill, and the added weight
only amounts to 1)4 cwt., including surplus stock
to light the lamp In a football match at Birken-
head, Eng., March 31, James Wilson, aged 18 years,
while running with the ball was thrown on the
back of his head, his whole body becoming para-
lysed, and death ensuing on the following day
The Vienna Jockey Club celebrated the victory of
Zoedone in the Liverpool Grand National Steeple-
chase by a dinner at the Imperial Hotel in honour
of Count Karl Kinsky, who rode his own horse to
victory Mr. Hornby, the English cricketer, has
not yet recovered the full use of his right arm,
which was hurt by accident last year On April
11 another clay-pigeon shoot between W. F. Carver
and A. H. Bogardus took place at Worcester, Mass.,
each shooting at one hundred birds, and Carver
winning by a score of 99 to 86. On the 13th they
shot at Boston, Carver scoring 93 to 92 At
Philadelphia, U.S., on Aprill llth, Kate Clark
and Nellie Lawton boxed for a cup, offered
by Carrie Edwards. After an exciting bout,
t io prize was awarded to the gentle Katie
At an exhibition given by the Crib Club of Boston
on 13th April, Billy Kilduff, of Boston, and Tim
Sullivan, of Cambridge, wound up. In the first
round both men sparred with caution. Sullivan
got in the most body blows, while Kilduff adminis-
tered some lively taps, using his left very cleverly.
In the second round, after a little preliminary
work, Kilduff dealt Sullivan a terrific blow with
his left under his chin, which caused him to reel
over a chair on to the ground. Before thirty
seconds had elapsed after resuming, Kilduff hit
Sullivan on the head and again felled him, he lying
senseless for five minutes, whereupon his second
threw up the sponge .. W. Franks, on March 19,
became the absolute owner of the thirtv-miles’
walking-handicap belt for Marylebone pedestrians
only, he having won it for the second time at
Lillie Bridge, London. His only opponent was H.
H. Marsom, and the stake was £lO. They were
started in a drenching rain, and after walking
about lh. 25min. Marsom, seeing he had no chance,
stopped, and Franks was allowed to stop at the
end of twelve miles, walked in lh. 34min 14sec., he
having walked eight miles in lh. lmin. 38sec.
An Echo writer says no sensible
would ever be jealous of the servant-girl
wife
Well,
perhaps so, maybe—we don't know. But there are
houses in Sydney where the servant-girl is jealous
of the wife.
A N.Z. logo told Thomas Westlake the
other day that Ins wife was playing false with one
Michael Casner, and Thomas, not being “ most
cunning in his patience," as the other Othello was
went out and shot Michael dead-as he thought’
Unfortunately tor all parties concerned (except
Casner) it turned out that the jealous husband had
shota man named Ryan in mistake, and us he has
not yet apologised for the error, there will no
doubt be further trouble in the next two acts.
JDr. M‘Gill’| (of Chicago) cure for diph-
theria:—An ordinary hose, from 2 feet to 5 feet
L! nc , h l n d u‘ I n ? t ? r - One end over spout of a
teakettle, into which has been put half a gallon of
water and half an ounce of carbolic a< id; the
kettle over a good lire; when water reaches the
boiling point the end of the hose is carried under
a blanket, thrown over patient’s head. Boom
closed. In a sho t time the patient will perspire
freely. If persevered In at short intervals, the
breathing becomes softer, and presently, after a
succession of quick expulsive efforts, the patient
throws off a coat or tube of false membrane.
Alcohol and sulphate of quinine to be used as sup-
porting properties. 1
Those concerned with shipping affairs, and
the large numbers of people who have to make
frequent journeys by sea between the colonies
P™ + ha .'; e an 0 PP 0r tunity. of examining the
largest steamer now owned in Australia ; and,
by all accounts, the best equipped for the comfort
of passengers, as well. This is the Buninyong,
wMM, f0r CS j Sr ?' X - Howard Smith and • ons,
which arrived in Melbourne from England, on
5 best idea of her size will
be gathered from the fact that she carries 3000 tons
of cargo; but her luxurious passenger accommo-
dation is what will chiefly interest the general
PJoMk’.-He saloon occupies the full width of the
ship (like those of the P. and O. steamers, Carthage,
Rome, Parramatta, &c.,) and is panelled with
figured silk of a dull yellow colour. There are
separate tables, and separate comfortable chairs
for each passenger, the latter being cushioned
with peacock-blue velvet. Mirrors are cunningly
let in all round the saloon, and the celling is orna-
mented with white and gold ; the whole effect
of ele »anoe combined with comfort.
The Melbourne papers are full of this fine addition
to our mercantile marine: and no doubt the
Sydney public wiU be much interested to see the
Buninyong also, which, we understand, is intended
for Messrs. W Howard Smith and Sons’ trade
between these two ports.
We have just seen a number of the
Colonist. This is a giddy journal, stitched in a
cover, and is about several things. Light things
chiefly—Free Trade, Protection; and there is a
Lieutenant-Colonel Hobbs who writes four or five
columns about ‘ Syndicates and Land-grant Rail-
jngs. The charge f ir the paper is threepence; and
it ;s worth threepence if only for one paragraph
which it contains. This relates how an advertising
gentleman in Sydney sends to the Sinqlton
Argus a 10-inch ad. about a racing sweep which
ho published for three months at the rate
of 8id. an insertion! The gross sum for the ad-
verti8em©nt is £2. out of which the advertising
gentleman deducts 10s. as commission. There
would appear to be quite enough “gall" in this
so far, would there not. But this is not all. The
stipulation by the proprietor of the sweep is that
the unfortunate printer shall take the “thirty-bob”
°ut in six 5s. chances out of a number of 12,000-of
which 11,885 are blanks 1 The Singleton Ahous
declined this gorgeous ord r. It was evidently
afraid of getting rich too quick. The Colonist is
excessively solid-quite opaque indeed-and what
delights us, is to find that it is not—as we are—over-
burdened with modesty. It says :-[the Colonist]
will gain strength week by week, and in thank-
ing you for having purchased this copy, we beg to
assuie you that you have added one feather to the
pinions on which, as a large and popular organ of
Public opinion, it will yet soar into every Austra-
lian hamlet. You have begun well, continue in
web doing. There is a party too who signs
Grano Salis and who writes “NationalChunks.’’
We take this gentleman to be an undertaker. On
second thoughts, though, we don’t. For an under-
taker is fuuny sometimes; and “Grano Salis”
never is. But he may be.
Press correspondents wanted immediately,
in every town in Australia. Australian Press
138 Pitt"St 1 L Adv l mS St ‘ Eust ’ Melbourne; Sydney,
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooplug
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe anil
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief;
a small bottle often cures. Ask for
and get it; spurious imitations are sometimes
offered.
Mr. DeCourcy Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 126 Pitt-street, Sydney
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Departments undertaken. Titles a
special ity.—A dvt.
Nowhere perhaps has the dentist’s art obtained
such high excellence as in Sydney. Certainly we
are in no sense behind any other city. Visitors to
Sydney might, to test this, visit the establishment
of Messrs. Adolphe Gabriel and Company, 18 Wyn-
yard Square, two doors from Pfahlert’s Hotel
Here the manufacture of every essential in the
Srofession is carried on. At the rear of the surge ry
a compact little factory where all the requisites
for supplying every dental defect in the human
mouth are made. Messrs. Gabriel and Co. (whose
only address is as above) are always pleased to
show their specimens of artificial teeth to those
interested. There being two firms of the same
name in the Square, patients will oblige by paving
particular attention to the Christian name, Adokdie
and the number, 18, two doors from Pfahlert's
Hotel.—Abvt.
p
ÜBLIC NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON k CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 482 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEO.KSE STREET
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
Or, TWO DOORS NORTH OF OLD SIIOF


SOCIAL.
The shortest day in the year, and the
shiniest night. Just lovely was that calm, bright,
moonlit atmosphere last Thursday night, when
the cabs and carriages brought their couples and
coteries up to the “Mercantile.” With the orb of
Dian right at its golden full, and the still air tem-
perate to a degree, no wonder that, to elated
belledom, and just for a time, it seemed as if the
world was created by infinite love as a place to
dance in; and that young fellows could only look
on girls as pretty things created by infinite love on
purpose to dance with. The patrons of the M.R.C.
Ball are mostly youthful. It is true a lot of people
who are eminently solid and almost sere are
supposed to patronise it; but no one sees much of
them—except in the preliminary advertisements.
And it is quite true that lots of people who were
never able, or were never allowed to dance, or who
have become too old or too stiff, too fat or too good
to dance, naturally view with charitable pity those
who can and do dance; and look down on the art
with general contempt. But the young on.-s live
on, all the same, in their absence, and love one
another, and laugh and enjoy life—Father Henne-
berry and his followers notwithstanding. Possibly,
some of them even dare to hope for heaven. So
the folks streamed in at the southern door, and the
porch was soon full of a smiling, chatty crowd.
There, on one side, were the youths complacently
smoothing their fingers as they wailed for the
ladies to come cut; a few in fancy dress, who
found themselves too famous, and wished people
wouldn't look at them so fixedly; and a great band
of “Johnnies ’’ in general, exhibiting newly shaven
chins and shiny pumps, with continents of shirt-
front and isthmuses of “ old chappie ” collars. And
there, on the other hand, were the hanging
draperies that shut from view the Adamless
Eden—the garden of girls who were “doing
themselves up.” It is a wonderful enigma
what it is ladies get doing in a cloak-room
that seems to prevent them ever coming cut
again under thirty-five minutes!—especially as
they are supposed to be dressed to the final pin
before they go there. Hairpins, beads, bits of
elastic, and lace lingerie do seem to require an
interminable amount of “ fixing ’’—though, of
course, time is a mere nothing when you consider
the result attained. However, at last the elabora-
tions were finished, and the gay and smiling
demoiselles tripped with their cavaliers into the
ballroom, hundreds of them, until the building was
nicely full.' There wus no crush. Now, we are
expected to say something about this ball; to tell
who were there, what they wore, how they looked,
what they did, and so on;'in fact, just furnish a
full and faithful report, the same as if we’d been
inspecting an industrial college. It is an unhappy
task; at the very outset, we are like the progres-
sive boy at Sunday-school, “beset with snares on
every hand.” Some people are so sensitive. If we
don’t enthuse over a “ red and yaller ” terror as the
fair wearer herself does, we always have to cross
the street when we see her coming, for six
months afterwards; and if we just hint to a young
man—who thinks himself a perfect comet in the
tcrpstchorean atmosphere—that the whole art of
dancing does not consist in chipping corners off
other people, he at once takes tne matter up as
personal, and talks Miller. To any intelligent and
trusted reporter, who always fails utterly when he
tries to please people by skilfully-invented lies, it
is very painful to be placed in this position. But
there are topics which we must touch on, no
matter what the consequence—topics as irresistible
as they are inexhaustible; and as long as human
nature remains the same, “dress” will be one of
them. Two sisters from Church Hill wore the
most beautiful evening dresses at the ball. Miss H.
Parry had a rich creation of cream brocade and
cream satin; the front of skirt was covered with
real duchesse lace, between the rows were rows of
pearl lace, giving a striking effect, and under
the duchesse were rows of very large pink
roses showing the shade of pink just peeping
through. The train, caught up at the side by
one immense pink rose, wus separate from the
skirt, that is, fastened on to the waist merely, and
lined with pale pink satin all through, so that when
held up it displayed the delicate glimmer of the
pink; gold lace round the edge. Round the neck
was a ruffle of real lace, with roses between each
quilling. Plumage of pink feathers in the hair.
Miss M. Parry had a primrose satin, with a kind of
golden cream to match, brocaded with lilies of the
valley. The front skirt was primrose satin, having
alternate rows of jet fringe and lace, headed with
a cluster of white jet roses and golden leaves, in
form of an apron ; at the sides were panels of
beautiful white jet. The bodice was trimmed
with white jet roses and lace; and the train, com-
ing from the front, was cut up at bottom so as to
form a row of leaves, and was bordered with real
gold lace. Clusters of dark red leaves on the front
of dress, on the sleeves, and in the hair. An ex-
ceedingly handsome dress was of rich cardinal
gatin, covered with thin black lace, through which
the cardinal glinted with fine effect. A brunette,
Miss Pooley, wore a dress all of pretty buttercup
silk. Miss Payne, in a short Spanish costume of
black lace, without any colour whatever, but cut
low to show a pair or beautiful shoulders, had
chosen what was exquisitely suitable to her,
and many favourable remarks were made compli-
mentary to her taste. A builder’s daughter was
pretty in blue satin and pale pink roses, edgings of
white lace; Miss Pinnington, in blue satin, with
basketof flowers and large straw, was Josephine.
One Folly was in pale pink and blue with bells,
and another in bright yellow bodice, blue skirt,
with yellow stars having bells at the points—a nice
combination of colours and rather novel. Very
prominent, by reason of its colour, was a terra
cotta brocW sparely trimmed with delicate ficelle
lace; little Miss Thompson made a dear Ruth, and
lightning dancer; and a pretty music teacher in a
fllagreed blue was a sprightly partner; Miss
Walker took the name of La Belle Reine, in a
handsome fancy garb of black velvet bodice hung
with crimson pompons and bunched behind,
crimson satin skirt trimmed with white lace. Miss
Coombe wore one of the finest evening dresses—a
rich ruby velvet bodice with back bunching and
side paniers caught up with pearl brooches, a
dainty straw-coloured skirt, and golden pearls
strung in her dark hair ; Mrs. Lawrence
exhibited a neat fancy dress of old gold satin
and purple; and a perfect little Hebrew dancer
flitted, fairy-like, in lavender and white, which
combined well with her brunettish charms. A
pretty little Woollahra blonde wore a white satin,
that was good In everyway, and quilted in squares
and other pretties.” Two sisters, lately from the
bouthern capital, came from North Kingston—one
in ca dinal satin, the other in cream; both attrac-
tive. A Mounted Trooper, who was very youthful,
seemed all boots. Mrs. Walsh wore a tine dress of
pale bluo brochrf, with train, skirt looped up at one
side with roses, lace trimming:, and a ruche and row
ot ipses round the bottom. “ Little Nell ” was a
good-sized girl, of substantial formation, who wore
a dress of black and old gold—and a deadly smile,
and a skipping-rope. Miss M’Laren wore an admir-
able costume as a Huntress: double-breasted jacket
of grey cloth with large buttons and short maroon
skirt, three-cornered hut with a plume, riding boots
spurs, and whip. Miss Adrain was neat in claret
velvet bodice, tails, and pale pink satin skirt, har-
moniously trimmed. There were two or three
Americas; some youths who looked extremely
ttminmU as Footballers, and others as Brigands,
Burglurs, and so on, who could not keep their Wig-
zell moustaches on their downy lips. One young
gentleman’s style of skylarking was so lofty and
vigorous that he danced himself right off his feet
beside the fountain; but the floor is fortunately so
strong there that he didn’t go through. By the way,
there was, as usual, a large number of these em-
phatic dancers present, whom ordinary people
whose lives are uninsured, have to watch with the
greatest care. There’s an uncertainty of purpose
m the movements of the typical emphatic dancer
which makes it very puzzling to determine in what
direction he s trying to go, or which leg will fly up
next and whiz past your elbow. We meet this
dancer everywhere, our ankles testify to his active
exertions, and the shredded skirts of unfortunate
ladies who have been in his vicinity bear witness
to his presence. He makes the “grand chain” a
circus performance of the most exciting sort, and
he practices a polka with all the vehemence of a
cavalry charge. To him and his kind we offer “ a
little thing of our own
When each hoof with violence goes,
When our ribs each elbow pokes,
When heels do-drop on our toes
With a weight like any moke’s.
We think of thee!
When we’re black and blue from blows,
When we’ve bumped by blundering blokes,
When we’ve torn and draggled clo’es,
When we get too sad for jokes,
We think of thee!
When a man has got the “slows,”
And his see-saw quite provokes,
When he kicks a lady’s hose,
Works her arm with pump-like strokes,
We think of thee I
Oh! we trust, at last—who knows ?
There a home for these good folks,
Where the cheerful charcoal glows,
And the stoker gently stokes
E-ter-nal-lee!
Mrs. Zions wore a cardinal satin overskirt, with
vandyked body, and gathered black skirt, white
lace trimmings. Miss Merritteld was the perfec-
tion of a dainty dancer all in white satin and
pearls; Mrs. Cantor wore a rich maroon velvet,
and pale pink satin skirt; Miss Carroll, cream satin
°| great richness, strewn with pearls and strings
of flowers; Mrs. Kurts, a fine dark maroon broch£,
the bodice edged with white pompons, and white
lace on the skirt; Miss Goodman, a maroon velvet
tunic, pale pink satin skirt trimmed with passe-
menterie and red berries, and touched off with
crimson feathers, which also formed a head-dress.
Miss Hyam was Nancy Lee, in a very tasteful
costume. Miss Levy displayed a good white satin
with pearl sleeves, and pale blue skirt. “ Marie
Stuart” shone pre-eminent for the correctness of
her beautiful historical character, and bore her
regal robes with truly queenly grace. And few
faces are more graciously fair than hers:
Just such a face as Wordsworth would
In verse have painted;
A face not only fair, but good,
One semi-sainted.
A face where gentleness by truth
Is well attended;
A face where beauty, grace, and youth,
Are softly blended.
A face that sets the thoughts ateem
In fancy spinning,
To try and find what makes it seem
So very winning.
One character was a Culgoa Gentleman, which we
suppose is a new sort of gentleman. He's quite
welcome; there is plenty of room for him in
Sydney. Miss Ag. Tighea yachting costume of
white, with blue collar, &c., and saucy hat, was
both neat and pretty, and her dancing the same.
A maroon satin (gloves to match) and tablier of
terracotta adorned a clever dancer. About
midnight, a considerable accession to the ball came
in the shape of a party from the Opera, all in fancy
garb. There was Power, lank and funny in black
velvet tights, as an Aesthete, just flopped out of
the quadrille: Deane Brand, as a Prince; then
Manola: tho Girl in Chintz; Ophelia; Mr. Wilson
as Don Calabazas; Mr. J. Eramerson as Miguel, in
“Manola;” and Miss Eramerson as Fanchette, all
helping to heighten the gayness of the scene. Miss
Kate Chard wore black bodice, red and white
striped skirt, and immense roses, as Bulotte, and
with her partner attracted a knot of admirers
to view a new rendering of the Highland
Schottische, with a good deal of fling in it.
Miss Scbroeder was Coquette, Miss John-
ston Dorothy, in “King's Dragoons;” Mrs. W. H.
M'Carthy, Lady Archibald Campbell; Mr. H.
E. Paul. Ambassador; Mrs. J. Smart, Star ;
Miss L. Hurcott, Ruth; Mrs. Evans,a Reaper; Mrs.
M'Shane, a Grecian Lady; Mrs. J. Phelps, Folly;
Miss J. Bull, Highland Lassie; one Miss Long
Pa :ience: and another a charming Spanish Lady;
Miss Duff, Starlight; Mrs. J. Duffln, Star; Mr. H.
Sutton, Russian Pirate; Miss Pascoe, Highland
Lassie; Miss L. M‘Kenny, Mischief; Miss Chapman,
Tambourine Girl; Mr. A. Dransfleld, Manrico; Mr.
Dwyer, Bunthorne; Mrs. Hunt, Spanish Gipsy;
Miss Barron, Union Jack; Miss Harris, Claudine;
Mrs. Archibald, Clairetfe; Mr. H. M. Dennis,
Prince of Night; Miss Tighe, Daughter of the
Regiment; and Miss St. Clair, Folly. Altogether
the gathering of fancy characters was very as-
sorted, and some well-designed costumes were
amongst them. Miss Emilie Davies looked charm-
ing in one of the few creations that were really
original, namely, that of Redfern Footballer-
jersey bodice of navy blue, with sash having “ Red-
fern ’ on it in gold letters; skirt, just long enough
to be proper, and short enough to be pretty,
made of llama in alternate blue and white
stripes, dark blue hat trimmed with white satin.
Her sister, Eva, made a delicious Fanchette in crim-
son satin and eroam, with lots of flowers. Lieut.
Wilson appeared in his uniform of the Torpedo
Corps; Mr. Robert Kurts was Capt. Molyneux of
the 41st; his sister, very handsome in cardinal
satin. Miss M. Eastway was Flametta ; Miss E.
Brooks, well made up as Lizzie Stofel; Mr. R. M.
Griffiths, Spanish Gondolier; Miss Merrick, Night;
Miss Croft, Pearl; Miss Murray, Hungarian Girl,
a good make up of black velvet, with red under-
skirt, a peculiar cape hanging from the shoulder,
lined with red and trimmed with fur, square-
topped black velvet hat crossed with silver cords,
boots to match the character. Mr. Brigson was a
Mexican Scout; Mr. Booth, Bombastes; Mr. B.
Hicks, a Barber’s Pole; Mr. J. Wilson, a Brigand
of 17th Century; and a well-taken character was
that of Beatrix in “ Manola,’’ the well-known dress
of green and gold satin. The sister of a runner
was very piquant in a low-cut cream silk, trimmed
with lace, gathered skirt and train, and was
a graceful dancer. Mrs. Carugati wore a
superior cream satin, with a regal train, and
trimmings of rich crimson brocade and flowers.
Among the dancers who were noticed for their
grace were Miss White, of Bourke-street, in blue,
who “trips the light fantastic” better than old
Milton could ever imagine; and little Miss (Sebas-
tian) Hodge, also in blue; and a petite young lady
in simple black brochtS. Also a little blonde, with
a pathetic face, in white and crimson and gold, and
the varied gay colours that make a ‘“Grecian
Girl.” That s what she said she was, though we
don’t believe Greek names, as a rule, begin with
Me. Titania, Queen of Fairies, could scarce have
had lighter feet—lighter than anything we can
think of just now, except, perhaps, a poet’s head.
So light—
We’d like to be a tiny flower,
Hid in the grass;
Awaiting patiently each hour
For her to pass.
And when she came upon her walk
We’d hang our head.
Her foot would hardly bend a stalk,
So light its tread!
O, little blonde, ere you depart.
Hear this our prayer—
Dance light, you’re dancing on our heart,
Sweet thing of air I
Half of the gallery was packed for some hours
with spectators, who enjoyed the kaleidoscopio
scene, among them being a clerical gentleman of
the Wesleyan persuasion. Flags of all clubs were
used to adorn the building, also sculls, and at one
end a number of them spread out fan-like, over a
gas star, made quite an oar-ora of light. A basket
was placed at the door for lost programmes, which
proved very useful, and the hat registry and other
conveniences were well arranged. The City Cater-
ing Company provided the supper tables in a satis-
factory way, and Messrs. Murray and Blackstone,
secretaries, and Mr. Bull, treasurer, were very busy
in endeavouring to see that all went smoothly.
Young Australian Band good.
For continuation of Social., see next page.
JIURNITURE SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring 1 street*, Sydney.
HALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS, and
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb, Furniture Importers, Spring and
O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
tsasto, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
"IVrOVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
ll SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
, ITEKNOOJn TEA TABLES, elegant and lnex-
JA. pensive. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell-streGt.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
some STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &o.
T3ILLIARD TABLES, full size, with appurten-
J 3 auces ; also smaller Convertible Tables, 7 and
8 feet—may be used as dining tables. Now on view.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, Importers, Spring
and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
|_» EDSTEADS, all sizes, at lowest prices. BRAD-
JL> LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Importers,
O ’ Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Bydney.
Eight-pound bedroom suites.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
Tlass, and two chairs. The lot for £&. BRADLEY,
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BR
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
CHEAP FURNITURE.-Whatnots, from 20s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
eases, frara 355; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from 10s6d; Tables, from 7s6d: Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 255; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s:
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
S 85s.
BRADLEY,
NEWTON,
and LAMB,
SYDNEY.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in l'ilack and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
IjIURNITURE.— The Largest Stock in the
' Colony. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell-street.
T|RAWING-ROOM CABINETS—EarIy English,
JLr Anglo-Japanese, and Chippendale designs.
Just opened. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
streets.
Dining-room furniture. - Magnificent
Suites in Walnut, Oak, and Mahogany. Side-
s??^ dB ’^ss^' w ’ a »B' ons > - to match. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O’Connell streets.
Framework for drawing and dinin&
ROOM FURNITURE, Handsome and Massive,
in Oak, Walnut and Mahogany. The VERY BEST
REAL MOROCCO SKINS, and Materials for m>-
holstery. Open to inspection. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB.
BEDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell-street.
YY
"ASHSTANDS, with marble, 26s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
G
ARDEN SEATS and Verandah Chairs.—Brad-
ley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment just opened; many quite new,
designs.
in VERY GREAT?
OCCASIONAL CHAIRS ...
Variety, Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c
Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
Bradley,
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &0., Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb, 0 Connell-street.
CE CHESTS, all sizes, very superior make. Ex-
amine before purchasing. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring ana O’Connell-sfcreets.
s
'RON SAFES, various sizes. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
TEINWAY NEW YORK PIANOS, the FINEST
1 in the world. A SHIPMENT just landed.
OQ GUINEA PIANO, WARRANTED sound
and durable, in solid walnut case; specially
adapted for beginners or schools.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
O/YOUINEA PIANO, brilliant toned, full c"om-
l»U pass, all the latest improvements, in hand-
some walnut case ; WARRANTED SOUND and
DURABLE ; BEST VALUE in the trade.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
IPP’S CELEBRATED PIANOS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB
have received
another LARGE SHIPMENT
of
R. LIPP and SONS’ celebrated PIANOFORTES
direct from the Makers, comprising TALL
GRANDS, LITTLE UPRIGHT 0-RAIfDS, SA-
LOON GRANDS, VERY HANDSOME and ot the
HIGHEST CLASS FINISH,
WALNUT and BLACK GOLD.
J3T* WE HAVE NOW THE LARGEST STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA OF
LIPP’S PIANOS
TO SELECT FROM.
WE INVITE INSPECTION.
FOR PRIVATE SALE AT EXTREMELY LOW
PRICES.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Pianoforte Importers,
O’Connell and Spring streets.


„ .„ n( , e art, nnd nature combined to make
Ball brilliant on the 19th June. Out-
tbe M .^ n Aeacon lights of electric ty, like star-
side, the fica pendent in the sky, guided Jehu
bngM “‘nen doors. Inside, the blazon-d walls,
to shields, devices, flags, and curtaius,
adornea ” w ith mirrors, the regalia of the
crimson couches, and parti-coloured
craft. ~ f orme d a fitting bower for beauty to
bouquets, to the right, gentlemen to the
enter- .. or der of entrance, and the incomers
left i a Appordingly, to meet agajn when men had
parted nnd their fair partners had been finally
bv the ladies’-maids who were there to
touchea o j o’clock tho ranks were marshalled
' vai Dwvfessor West, who was Dir.ctor of Cere-
by y„a n d the ball was soon going merr ly on.
monies, » visible on every hand, as the Masons
BeB alia ", the affair in great force. The floor was
der an d the fountain had been boarded
ia capita* , musicians, who were members of the
° ver for tne kQOW that it is litt i e i ess than
City.”* l1 1 ’ ovetl whisper a word against these
80 l il nted performers, but, if we die for it,
talented I have heard better music. They
w® harmonious best, no doubt, but they
dm top been dangerously near to the brink of
mast several occasions—for they quite lost
eternity g ~ At midnight, a Masonic quadrille
slg l ..vAcuted, the ladies wearing the badges of the
was exec an q a t its close, the brethren with
my®” o sw ords processed through the building.
d r aw ‘u,es were on the card, another being added
Si3 u«i of the French cotillon, which might have
i a in unfamiliar to some present; and, to aid
‘ i n finding one another, rendezvous pla-
p were on each pillar, bearing the names of
car v!.,a suburbs. A considerable proportion of
various those who are not far, one side or the
g , U hPr off the middle mile-post of life’s highway;
the remark was often made, “ there’s a lot
girls here.” And they were prettily
P pd too, but all in evening costume only,
i when that is the case there is no detailed
iotion possible without monotony. Every
now-a-days contains acres of cream
ba tm and miles of brooh<s, loads of flowers,
sa il Wirues of lace; and when you add an
i nfinite quantity of ribbon, and boads like
iho nands on the seashore for multitude, and
Ima and mittens, and gems and gold, and—and—
>]«• what more can be said? But we are so
aLrinv so observant, so utterly reckless of the fact
If nAhodv wants to be noticed, that we venture
tofav a little more. No one will read it; but never
mind A slave to duty, we are. A ball dress that
j happy combination, was low black velvet
undice white satin skirt and fancy sash, bunches
nf white flowers and black ribbon round the skirt
the end of tabs; it was worn by a South Head
unad lady A black was worked all over with ara-
upsiiues of green beetles’ wings and beads. The
wife of a George-street business man was admir-
nhle in a low blue satin and white lace. A lilac
silk bunched, with train, helped towards a pretty
variety of colour. Two Newtown sisters wore rich
ninks top of terry velvet, skirt of gathered satin
f ‘ match in colour, and trimming of splendid white
marled lace. Several brides were present in ortho-
dox trained white robes of satin or brochd—one of
a famous Melbourne doctor, one of a com-
mercial man, one of a Fijian legislator—and
no “living human being” would dare decide
which was most charming, when all looked so
well A married blonde lady was stately in green-
ish black velvet, and light pink satin brochd,
Elizabethan lace collar. Two young ladies, from
Bourke and Crown streets, were both blonde,
nretty, lively, and perfect dancers. An Elizabeth-
Btreet iady wore a conspicuously good dress of old
gold hung with black lace and pompons, with a
tabli’er that was a mass of mysterious millinery
such as no pen could put into words; and a tall
brunette was dressed all in chaudron satin. Flow-
ered fawn ottoman, and skirt of white satin and
lace decked a handsome Darlington blonde; and
a young lady with wavy hair and a bird-like name
wore ridges of swansdown on a blue bodice and
sleeves, and a ficelle skirt of finely gathered nun’s
veiling. A piquant little Hebrew lady displayed a
kind of creamy ficelle silk, beautifully made, with
long train; and a builder’s daughter was very
pretty in pink satin and nun’s veiling. A tall,
musical young lady danced charmingly in cream
with a golden band around; and a tall brunette
wore a dress of rich brochd and satin, a “straw-
berry duet.” Another duai harmony was in blues
—indigo and a deep azure tint, set off
with white beads and lace, extremely hand-
some. From Darling Point a young lady came,
in a very pretty dress of fawn anu salmon-n nk
striped satin, brcchd skirt to suit, and wreath of
flowers. A Randwick lady wore a splendid cos-
tume of shrimp pink satin with hanging pompons,
and garlanded with grass and water-lilies. Two
sisters from “Hillside,” Annandale, were simply
pretty in cream broehi and nun’s clo:h, with just a
tinge of cardinal; with a jovial military gentleman
in spurs in close attend mce. The genial Mayor of
Wollongong was present with a coterie from St.
Leonards. And from that suourb came a little
belle (some said the) who was just piquancy itself,
in a dress of perfect simplicity, white and light as
a snowflake—not a tinge of colour, that would
have spoiled it all—a saucy face, and brown hair
tumbled up cleverly on to a little Grecian head;
and there you have the devastating picture. The
ball-treasurer exerted himself looking after visi-
tors who did not belong to the craft; and his wife
was charming in a sleeveless cream ottoman silk,
trimmed with pearls and looped up with roses.
From Woollahra, a pink cashmere and ruby plush
dress, trimmed with oriental lace, was very hand-
some: as was also, from thence, a emir fraise nun’s
cloth decked with Spanish lace. A rather pretty
girl had the misfortune to dance clean through
er shoes at the start, and was consequently dU-
;abled during the rest of the evening. Her first
1-ball, too. On, ye tears! There was a large attend-
-ance of visitors in the gallery, and some stayed
. there till well on in the morning. Many prominent
politicians took part in the ball, which ended after
; 3 a.m. The cloak arrangements, programmes, etc,,
were quite satisfactory. Compagnoni catered an
, excellent supper under the galleries, and the traffio
, officials outside, under tho electric lamps, managed
ifirat-rate.
* * *
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Hudson entertained a
number of friends at “ Fairmount,” Ashfleld, on
Thursday evening last. The party met to celebrato
event, the anniversary of the host’s eldest
daughter's birthday, and the opening of a hand-
some ballroom, which has recently been added to
“Fairmount.” The room, approached through a
well-appointed conservatory, is one of the best of
its kind in the suburb, being of capital size, and
the floor is not likely to be other than first-class,
laid by one of the Hudson Brothers. Its decora-
tions are also artistic. Dancing, with musio at
Intervals, kept everyone happy and busy.
• • •
To-day the Conversazione of the Engineer-
ing Association opens in the Exhibition, at 3 p.m.
The City Band will perform an alluring overture,
and there is sure to be a fashionable gathering.
Electric light at night.
* * *
Hope springs eternal in the red-haired
girl’s breast. Humming Bee comes to her aid with
this crumb of comfort:—“ There are some whose
creamy skins and delicate rose-leaf colour are
always accompanied by distinctly red hair. Even
friends can’t call it auburn, and its possessors too
often And it a source of unmitigated vexation.
But one lady made strength of her weakness by
scattering upon her red locks golden dust till it
gleamed a dull golden red, such as you see low on
the horizon before rain comes after prolonged
heat, and one envied the happy possessor of hair
which looked like that of one of Titian’s pictures.”
* * *
“ Pschutt ” is the latest word. We admit
we don’t know what it means, and don’t believe
anyone else does. It is ugly to look at, and slangy
to speak; but as it has “come in,” we are deter-
mined to grapple with it, if we drive ourselves
into an early orthoepical grave in the attempt.
PSchutt” is being used in the place of “chic;”
uot that it means exactly the same, but it is a cog-
hate expression. It means ease, taste, talk, dress,
acts; all must be perfect, yet the individuality of
the person still preserved, and cn Evidence. To say
• vhat one is “pschutt” is to say that he or she baa
reached the extreme of what is desirable in
“society,” and stands on the very peak of fashion.
It has not been defined exactly to wliat lengths a
person can go before he steps over the edge of
‘ pschutt.” It is possible to be born “pschutty,”
but wealth is absolutely essential to it. It is
“ pschutt” in Paris to have your coat-of-arms em-
broidered on the back of your gloves, also to take
morphia, to wear a white waistcoat with jewelled
buttons for evening dress, to be limp from the
waist up and wear garments as close and crease-
less as a coat of paint from the waist down. One
deflner says “ pschutt ” is “ the mirror of fashion
—not more, nor loss; ” and another says, “pschutt”
is “a flower of brains softened by dissipation.”
* * *
Here is a new game very popular with
the girls but not at all to the liking of
the young men when they discover the point. The
girls sit in one room in a row, with a chair in front
of each one. The young men are stationed in an-
other room, and are brought in one by one. When
he comes in, the youth chooses his chair, and the
young lady behind him binds his eyes with a hand-
kerchief. Then the Chinese cook comes in and
kisses him, and disappears. The young man is
released, feeling much refreshed and elated, and
promptly returns to the other end of the room.
His feelings whon the next young man comes in
and is treated to this novel entertainment, can be
imagined; but they are mitigated by the pleasure
of seeing the other fellows undergoing the same
experiment. As a winter evening amusement it
is one of the most popular.
• • *
Below are some observations quoted from
the S.F. Newsletter on the objectionable style of
some dancers, which comes appropriately under
the title of “ public hugging.” We quote, not
because the remarks are exactly apposite to any-
thing that exists in Sydney, but, firstly, as a fore-
warning ; and, secondly, because they will bear
application, though in a manner somewhat different
from that originally intended. They open upon
what is termed “ that amalgamation of abomina-
tions at present known in society as the Hop
Waltz,” and continue : “ With its amorous atti-
tudes, its clinging pressure of form to form, and
its spasmodic wriggling still fixed upon our nau-
seated mental retina, we confess that several terms
more apt than printable have suggested them-
selves. But, after much deliberation, hugging
has seemed to be the only word both applicable
and fit for publication, though with pain we
acknowledge the weakness ol’ its incompleteness
to describe the many objectionable ingredients
of the disgusting dance The
slow and graceful movement of feet in perfect
time to music, satisfactory enough in the past, is
now voted slow and insipid by our fob-chained,
ear-whiskered, and tight-pantalooned young men:
they require something more blood-heating and
exciting to attract their downy presence at a ball.
The old-fashioned redowa, and smooth-gliding
deux-temp s did well enough for their cold-blooded
fathers, who were content to place their arm
around a lady’s waist, and, giving it no more
pressure than the exigencies of proper guiding
required, so complete the dance, ignorant—or at
least unconscious—of any other personal contact
with their partner than the light touch of arm or
hand. But by them much more is desired, and
from all appearances the limit of desire in that
direction has been adequately reached in the Hop.
To fully describe the Hop, as it is danced to-day in
our ballrooms by sensual-mouthed, dissipated-eyed
young men, and apparently clean-minded and in-
nocent-hearted young girls, would be a task for
the doing of which we proudly admit our inability.
But we have stood night after night watching the
degrading spectacle, until we have been happy in
the reflection that we were daughtcrless ourselves,
though the thought would at times steal in upon
us what supreme delight it would be, had we a
daughter and found her in the sorry plight we
mention, to have summarily lifted by his ear and
kicked from our presence the man who would have
dared to offer her such unpardonable insult.”
Now, we have not the Hop Waltz here, or the
racquet. By all the leading teachers a smooth,
free glide is taught, where no contact is necessary,
and there is nothing objectionable. The only per-
sons who hop are those who cannot dance; and the
only persons who cling are those who cannot
behave. But—and here comes the application—we
have a style of polkaiug which, as it is done by
many, nearly takes the place of tho objectionable
Hop Waltz of A meriea; a style of horseplay and
indiscriminate plunging that is devoid of grace on
the part of the performers, and productive of
bumps and discomfort to everyone else. And we
have a style of waltz, aptly described as the
“Chandelier Crawl,” which, though “theslowand
graceful movement of feet in time to music” is
preserved, is yet, in another aspect, as indecent as
any racquet can be. While other people glide
round and about the room, the pair of chandelier
crawlers monopolise the centre—she clinging to
him, he pressing to her with careful solicitude;
and as they dawdle slowiy around, scarcely moving
from the one spot, both present, in their sandwich-
like adherence, a perfect illustration of “ hugging
in public.” A woman who could see her daughter
thus held must be very complaisant. If this par-
ticular crawl were confined only to a certain class,
it would be hardly worth while noticing, for there
is a favourite adage that you cannot make a silk
purse out of an unsuitable material. But this par-
ticular crawl is to seen almost everywhere, and
flourishes in good private houses, where the
hostess, relying on the status of her guests, fails
to critically discriminate the exact moment when
decency is overstepped; or, even if she notices,
finds it a difficult task to frame a remonstrance.
One thing is fortunate: the specimen dancers who
thus behave are but a small minority, and they
cannot increase unless ladies want them to.
* * *
One incident resultant from the Albury
banquet was a ge; ial little tea party given last
week by Mr. Quong Tart in the Royal Arcade, to a
coterie of Victorian visitors; among tho guests
being Mr. Russell, M.P. for Ballarat East, the
Mayor of that place, two or three in ning gentle-
men, Messrs. Withers, and Sydney pressmen. It
was very sociable; a dainty tea was spread and the
wants of guests attended to by the neat
who act as ministers of grace in the scone depart-
ment of Mr. Tart’s house. After tea, wine came
on, and Mr. Tart proposed the “Queen;” Mr.
Withers followed with “Visitors irom Victoria.”
to which the Mayor and the M.P. humourously
replied. The host sang a comic song, which was
considerably funny, and his health was heartily
toasted. Mr. Quong made a sensible speech on the
“Press,” confessing that it had always put a fair
amount of “jam” on his "tart,” and after replies
from the editor of the Ballarat Star and others,
the tea party diffused.
• • •
On Friday Mr. F. L. Weiss, of the Modern
High School, Phillip-street, took the occasion of
midwinter " breaking-up” to give a large party,
when the whole of his establishment was illumed
with lanterns and gay with pot plants. Mr. Weiss
spoke a few words very briefly, and then attention
was turned to the programme of twenty-four
dances, which were done in duplicate, upstairs and
down. Of course, all the boys were present, and
in addition a large gathering of their friends,
mostly in full dress. At supper Dr. Tarrant pro-
posed the health of the host, and Mr. Weiss, in
replying, concurred with the Dr. that book lore did
not complete education. Manners were occasionally
overlooked, but education should make boys
gentlemen as well as scholars, and even the light
engagement of dancing was an accomplishment
that could not be neglected by those who degired
to take a place with credit in modern society.
• • •
Needs’ Rooms have seldom looked so well
as they did on Wednesday last week, when the
Diamond ball was held. A fair number of invita-
tions had been issued, and those who had received
them were considerably envied, for it was known
the ball would be a very fashionable affair. Active
preparations were made to ensure its being bril-
liant in every respect, aid a great interest was felt
when the night of the 20th arrived. The ball was
given by the officers of H.M.S. Diamond, and they,
with the numerous other naval mon and midship-
men, &e., present, were all in full uniform. The
porch, through which the guests entered, and
around which a crowd of the general public who
had not been invited gathered, was adorned with
colour and greenery and lanterns; and in the ball-
room some of the decorations, which included lots
of flowers and bunting, were specially designed
for the occasion, notably four large discs with
pink, groundwork, one on each wall; in two of
them, stars were formed by lines of bayonets and
ramrods radiating out, and in the others by
bright and glistening naked cutlasses—instru-
ments which the gallant tars are understood
to be constantly yearning to use on the
dastard enemies of their country. Pending the
appearance of the dasta»l enemies, however, they
kill society belles, and do the slide waltz. Saiiors,
who, as yet, only adorn the ltalph Rackstraw rank
of the scrvico, were stationed all over the building
to do all needful little services. Kopff’s band rat-
tled off the music, and the great Smith catered a
dainty spread on the supper tables. Low-necked
dresses were cn regie, trains prevailed, and light
tints were chiefly worn. Handsome costumes
were too numerous for detail, but two pure white
ones were specially beautiful. One of the belles
of society wore a soft white spotted silk, the full
bodice and short sleeves trimmed with pearl em-
broidery. A waterfall and demi-train fell over the
back skirt, which was of Brussels net; on the front
was rich embroidery over puffings of net, with
draping of spotted silk. All was white, except
real gold lace round the edge of train. A darker
lady, also well known, from over the water, wore
awhitedress; foundation of cream satin covered
with Breton net: oidelweis lace flounces on the
front, puffings caught up by real white ostrich
glumes, some of which also decked the bust. The
allroom began to thin between 2 and 3 o’clock,
and the carriages had nearly all rolled away by the
latter hour.
• • *
A “Block” Scene; 4p.m. Monday. Two
banker’s boys going down George-street. Two
little heartbreakers of the antagonistic sex coming
up George-street. First young iady bows stiffly to
first banker’s boy, and passes quickly on. Second
banker (loq.): “ Bai Jove, Fwed, what a luoky dawg
you are with the girls! Who’s that new beauty ?”
Fwed: “ Oh, little girl I picked up one night at the
Glebe Rowing Ball. Used to part her round a bit
at first, but she got so awfully shook—used to
follow a fellah round everywhere ; awful boar,
y’ know—had to cut it.” What the first girl
said: “ There’s that conceited goose again! Don’t
look round for the world, Florrie, or the fool will
turn back, and we'll never get rid of him. All he
can talk of is foot-ball and cricket, and the awfully
jolly night he had at Needs’s ; and yet, when he
does go to a ball, all he can do is to keep up the walls
all night, and look ugly.”
• • •
The Osborne Memorial Church, Dapto,
was the scene of a pretty wedding on tho 13th
June, when a promising young journalist led to
the altar one or Unanderra’s best girls, who looked
charming in white grenadine, satin bodice and
train; wreath and veil, of course. Ten maids
supported her. This being the first wedding in the
new church, the newly wedded couple, according
to custom, were the recipients or a handsome
Family Bible. After the ceremony, the company
sat down to an elaborate breakfast at the residence
of the bride's parents, and the happy pair were
afterwards sent off with rice and slippers to Moss
Vale and Sydney. Best wishes to the bride, and a
little “Far” to start with.
* • •
The Misses Walker, of Bathurst-street, gave
a school breaking-up party to pupils, relatives and
friends, on the 19th, at Nithsdale, when some seven
or eight score were present. Plain and fancy cos-
tumes were worn; ClaUdine, Canada, Olivette, and
Mascotte were all good, and a North Shore Queen
was very noticeable. A Glebe young lady person-
ated Patience well, and a Richmond belle was an
enchanting Lydia Languish. Very handsome was
the cream satin, trimmed with blue and seed
pearls, worn by a Wiiliam-street young lady, who
was Levy’d upon for every dance. Programme
exhausted between two and three o'clock, and
Mrs. Bentley’s music gave all the dancers great
satisfaction.
* * *
The June ball of the Woollahra Assembly
occurred at Nithsdale on Friday, when the attend-
ance was large enough to fill the rooms ; and, as
twenty-four dances were done by one o’clock,
there was considerable liveliness in the proceed-
ings. This is commendable: short dances, close
together, is the golden rule. A Bathurst belle, in
pale blue silk and tartau tabs, was a beautiful
dancer; so was an American young lady, in cream.
A young married lady was very charming in pale
pink satin; one of her assistants at the recent pretty
ceremony being delightfully tasteful in heliotrope
and pansies. Gold-sprinkled hai: gave a Forbos-
street fair one a rather rich appearance; and a
black dress graced a belle who is always fashion-
able. Two captains’ daughters from over the water
excelled in the rhythmic evolutions of the twink-
ling feet. Finish at one o’clock. A very select
coterie initiated a new freak of fashion by waltz-
ing all through the Lancers. It’s a rather favourite
style among sundry velvet-collared young gentle-
men whom the uneven hand of fate has placed at
the wrong end of society’s ladder.
■ • •
The audience at Herr Alpen’s concert in
the Protestant Hall was packed as tight as sardines,
but was not quite so brilliant. Scores of motherly
faces beamed gladly when their Seliners and
Jemimers stood up in their No. 8 kid shoes to sing.
The Herr had done wonders with the voices, and
his own cantata is quite pretty, especially con-
sidering that it was, as we understand, composed
in Miss Moon, Miss St. Clair, and Mr.
Brewer, ot course did well, and Lieutenant Mul-
holland directed 100 girls through their calisthenics,
each one carrying a wreath of flowers with pretty
effect. Baby's singing was a feature, and another
feature was a silver flower stand presented to
Herr Alpen.
• • •
On Thursday last, a ball was given at
Orange Grove, Hurstville, by Mr. Alfred Gannon,
on the completion of alterations to his mansion, and
every effort was made to render the affair a success.
Dancing commenced at 9, and was maintained till
nearly dawn. The hostess was attired in a lovely
ruby silk, trimmed with orange blossoms and
looped with silver flowers. Mrs. Jos. Gannon wore
white satin with trimmings of pale blue and
cardinal, and was regarded as belle. Emeruldville
was represented by a lady in emerald silk. Attrac-
tive among the maids were two in lavender and
white, and one in cardinal and black, with ruffling
of sea-green. And all went away happy and
satisfied.
( * •
Precocious child: “Are you very short of
mind, Mr. Spooner?” “No, my dear, I don’t think
so; why do you ask?” “Because father said last
night he’d have to give you a bit of his mind if
you came here fooling round after sister Emily
any more!”
• • •
The Marchioness of Normanby gave an
At-Home at Government House, Melbourne, in
honour of the visit of Lord and Lady Augustus
Loftus to the sister capital. Seats were set in a
semi-circular form in the large ballroom, and the
music commenced at half-past 9. Choruses, part
songs, and solos by members of the Leidertafel,
under Julius Herz, proved the staple part of the
concert. Among the items were Kendall’s singing
of “Image of the Rose,” with humming accom-
paniment, and two German songs which served to
introduce Herr Hartung, a fine new baritone just
arrived from Leipsic. The Marchioness wore a
dinner dress of black velvet, and white crape
shawl; Lady Loitus, a black satin broch<s and lace
dress. Most of the other ladies favoured black.
As regards hair construction, about half the ladies
wore their tresses coiled or heaped on the top of
their heads; the others, seemingly out of pure de-
fiance, coiled them lower than ever on the nape of
the neck. Supper concluded the evening.
• m •
Our American cousins have every year
made the “ Glorious Fourth ” of July, the anniver-
sary of the day when they wrung independence
from our forefathers—and from some of their own
for the matter of that, for immigration from Great
Britain to the United States has made Americans
of lots of recent Englishmen—a memory of plea-
sure instead of a reminiscence of defeat. The
celebration of the American national holiday has
in Sydney no associations but such as are full of
delight, to the fair sex especially. The picnics and
balls on the Fourth have invariably been among
the pleasantest of annual social events, and the
forthcoming ball at Nithsdale is, if every sort of
trouble to ensure success be a guarantee, pretty
sure to be on a par with those which have preceded
it. During the day, the Consul, Mr. Kahlo, will re-
ceive at his office such visitors as may desire to
testify their respect for the Government he repre-
sents.
** * *
At Martells, in Franoe, the sister of Mr.
J. E. liedmond, the eloquent M.P., was recently
married to Mr. .Louis Howard, only son of the late
Mr. George Howard, of N.S.W. More agitation....
Next mouth, Mr. and Mrs. M. Doyle, of Yumma, in
the Forbes district, will celebrate their golden
wedding by a largo party. As they have fifty
grandchildren alone, it couldn't well be a small
party... Mr. Philip Snape, the P.M. at Gulgong,
has just completed a tine ball-room, so there's
gaiety about.... Susan Bowls, of Melbourne, aged
19, on her marriage day deliberately shot herself
just before the ceremony. Girls don’t often do
that. But husbands wish they did A pleasing
presentation was marie at Waverloy recently. At
the close of the Council meeting, aldermen and
friends adjourned toa dejcxuier set by Compugnoni
in the hall, and after a few toasts Mr. Simpson, the
Mayor, handed over a watch, whose inscription
speaks for itself, thus: *‘To John Macpherson, Esq.,
J.P., 10 years Mayor of Waverley. From his
brother aldermen, May 1883.” Before leaving a
N.Z. town, Jennie Lee gave a dinner to all the
stage hands of her company. This is the sort
of act we like to see a star shine in
A social reunion takes place in the Petersham
Town Hall on tho 28th June.... The first series of
Floral Assemblies held at Mrs. Wyatt’s, Darling-
hurst, having ended, a brief recess takes place, and
a second senes will commence on Wednesday, Ist
August —A bachelors’ ball happened at Glen
Innes on Friday week, when about forty couples
circled round to good music, and in the contest for
belle two ladies were very close; the charming
daughter of a local lay reader in black velvet, and
a young lady from theTinfleldsin black grenadine
and lace—Sir Henry Parkes, it is understood,
leaves for Europe on the 12th Julv Mr. J. Fitz-
patrick, who recently died at Campbelltown, was
one of the Hume and Hoveil party when they
crossed the Murray in 1824....8y the way, it is a
pity that owing to the lateness of the hour, and
general tediousness at the close of the Albury
banquet, the toast of the “ Ladies ” was not given,
as it was expected that both the gentlemen in
whoso hands the toast was placed, would, from
their varied and piquant experience of the
sex, have made most interesting speeches
Mr. Harrio Wood, Under-Secretary for Mines, was
received in a most complimentary manner by the
mining people of the eity of gold, old Ballarut.
Mr. Wood was an old resident of Ballarat Archi-
bald Forbes spent a day with Sir Henry Parkes on
Sunday, coming down the mountains to lecture at
Parramatta. He will leave in the same steamer on
the 12th July; Hugh Taylor, M.P., being also a
passenger—Mrs. Hampson, the revivalist, left
Melbourne for Adelaide on Monday. People used
tb wait at tho doors of the Town Hall two hours
to hear her... A skating club is being formed at
Yass. All the girls with small feet are in raptures.
But they dissemble their joy, and say “Gracious!
whatever will these dreadful men propose next ?”
....A nice At-Home was given by Mr. and Mrs.
Archibald Colville, on Monday, at Kedfern.
Hostess in violet: Newtown sent a skilful skater,
and Brisbane a blonde in peacock brilliancy. A
nightingale came from Petersham, and a trio
from Elsieeraig, and the belle from Bourke-street.
In Melbourne, the Normanby Bicycle Club was
to have a ball last night, first annual. Here’s a
hint—This really occurred at a country town.
“ Why don’t you get married, Mr. Brown ?" “ Oh,
I don’t know, Miss Jones,” he said, carelessly;
“ never thought much about it." “ Why don’t you
marry one of us?” He started. “Suppose you
try a flirt with Ada, and see how you like it,” the
siren continued. He nodded intelligently; he
wouldn’t miud. Ada was quietly telegraphed for;
they saw each other four times; now she is Mrs.
Brown, and the wedding spread was splendid A
fortnight ago, some ladies and gentlemen gave
their services in a dramatic performance for the
benefit of the Parramatta Bowing Club funds.
The club have recognised their kindness and
trouble in a graceful way, by tendering the per-
formers a complimentary evening party on next
Wednesday, 4th July, at the Masonic Hull, Parra-
matta A successful fancy ball was held at
Mudgee a few days since. Miss Ryan, from Sydney,
was noticeable among the fair ones; also Miss
Moran as Queen of ltoses, Mrs. M’Laughlin as
Queen of Scots, and Miss A. Butler as Sunset.
Singing, plenty of dancing, and gay costumes
made it a good ball The N.S.W. Artillery Baud,
who went to Albury, were shabbily treated. They
were done out of the ball, and when returning had
hardly a shilling. At least a guinea apiece might
be voted them The vocal performers of the
Sydney Liedertafel go to-day (Thursday) to
Windsor, to give a concert in aid of the local hos-
pital. Mr. M’Quade pays all expenses, provides a
special carriage on the train, and makes the mem-
bers his guests throughout.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Engineering Association Conversazione.. June 28
Sydney Private Assembly (Nithsdale) June 29
Ashfleld Assembly June 29
American Picnic (Botany) July 4
American Independence Ball (Nithsdale).. July 4
Masonic Ball, I.C. (Town Hall) July 5
Newcastle B.C. Ball July 5
Balmain B.C. Ball (Town Hall) July 13
Thistle Club First Annual Ball July 13
Mr. Chas. A. Ooodchap.
The Commissioner for Railways, whose por-
trait we present in this issue, needs no long
biography. The travelling public know him
as a man to whom they have trusted their
lives repeatedly, without having them em-
bezzled by Brighton smashes or Sandgate
collisions, such as Victoria and Queensland
haveexperieDced. Mr. Goodchap was trained
for his work, and understands it.
A powerful motive —loco-motive.
The Riverina squatters can certainly count
some mean men amongst their number. One
known as Hungry measured off a load of wood
that had been loaded green from the mill, and
actually deducted the freight from the carriers
for shrinkage. Another was known to carry his
clothes on his head and swim his horsw over a
river to save the pnntage, and now boasts that he
can travel a thousand miles with two shillings in
his pocket and have one left at the end of the
journey.
The following flattering tale is told of a
certain Circus company now corruscating up
Noith. The knights of the spangles and sawdust
were once once encamped near Louth, and, falling
in with one of the local magnates, they gave a free
exhibition of some of their daring feats in a hotel
yard. Being a good sort, the Louth man. on taking
his departure, said to the proprietor, “ Send one or
two of your men across to my place, and I’ll give
you a couple of good fat sheep just lit for cooking;
I'spose your people can eat, can’t they?” “We-ell,
yes they can, sir,” replied the other, as he stroked
his chin meditatively; “but, Lor’ bless yer heart,
y’ oughter see ’em drink, sir.” The hint was
gripped, and joy reigned around.
Mr. T. H. Boyd begs to notify to thepublio
in general that he has ceased to have any connec-
tion with, or interest in, the Photo. Gallery at 250
George-street, Sydnoy, and other the business
carried on at 28 Market-street, Sydney, under the
style of Boyd and Co., as wholesale photographic
dealers.*


DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Episcopal sport—Lawn-tennis.
To prosecute a man for selling the “ Fruits
of Philosophy ’’—which book is bad enough, we
admit—and to ignore the fact that he has been sell-
ing Aristotle, Apuleius, Ovid, Catullus, Martial,
not to mention Moses, Jeremiah, Solomon, and
Ouida, for a score of years or more, is verily to
strain at the gnat and swallow the dromedary.
At the Liberal Association meeting, the
other day, the scalping knife was buried deep, and
peace was restored in the ranks. So the orthodox
enemy had better prepare tor squalls. No less
than six vice-presidents elected, and there were
about sixty nominations for the office. “ Why
don’t they make them all vice-presidents?” asked
a Liberal, something after the fashion which ob-
tained in A. Ward's famous corps.
We stated the other day, that the Echo is
never humorous. We were wrong. The Echo
has shown that it can sometimes be exceedingly
funny—by mistake. On Saturday last it published
a letter to the Bishop of Newcastle, from John E.
Kelly (Stockwhip Kelly), and won a broad grin
from every reader, by heading a letter of which
every sentence which wasn’t a challenge was a
warning: " A Cry for Help to the Bishop of New-
castle by a Sceptic.”
The other day, during the absence from
his home, Murtoa, of Mr. Goodyear, a Wesleyan
clergyman, who had to preach at Warracknabea.l,
his lather, suddenly and without warning, expired.
A messenger was sent to apprise the rev. gentle-
man of the mournful fact, and he arrived at VVar-
raeknabeal to find that the service had commenced,
and that the preacher was discoursing upon the
death of Lazarus, and laying great stress upon the
manifestation of Christian fortitude under be-
reavements, especially by death 1
N. O. Lane endeavours to go for Dr. Hughes,
but it’s a case of “no thoroughfare.” Lane tries
to make a point by contrasting the lives of Pascal,
Fenelon. Kepler, Newton, Locke, Butler, Burke,
Bright, and Gladstone, with those of Voltaire,
Mirabeau, Tom Payne, Carlyle, Chesterfield, and
Bolingbroke. He quite fails to see that such an
a/rgumentum ad hominum cuts both ways, as ’twould
be as easy to say contrast the life of that profess-
ing Christian, the historic Bishop of Clogher, with
that of the alleged-by-orthodoxy-to-be-infidel,
Spinoza!
The Bishop of Newcastle defends Jacob’s
character as against that of Esau on the ground
that it was a developmental soit of character—
thas though beginning with predilections for
swim ll : ng, it had gone in for respectability as soon
as there was no more need for hanky-panky. As
for Esau, he was a plain-dealing, plain-speaking
fellow right through, and in no need of episcopal
supervision. Of course, whilst there are bishops
and sich like to the fore, there must be Jacob : or
rather, put t’other way, ’tis these latter constitute
the raison d'etre for right reverends. Given no
J aeobs; wanted no bi ■ hops.
Thus au ancient Puritan, not without rea-
son, concerning the Anglican Litany :—“ Now this
Letany is a very fascinating fardel of tautologies
and battologies, in which there is Lord deliver m
eight times, Hear, we beseech Thee, twenty times,
to omit many desires to be delivered from things
of which there are not the least appearance, no more
than of the danger of being drunk at a Whiteson-ale,
or having a purse cut at a stage-play, and not so
much. Againe, after a tautologicall summing-up
and repetition of the titles and elogies of the
Trinity, tossed with reponses, they fall on in a
heathenish way to act the word Letany, or
Maggany, as it is well rendered—namely, as it were
to conjure; and, as if the Divell were now to be dis-
possess they would use the very same pieces—
namely, by the mysterie of Thy Holy Incarnation,
&c.”
The labourers of High Roding, a village in
Essex. England, do not taste butcher’s meat from
one year’s end to the other. Recently their vicar
discovered that large quantities of beef, of which
beef-tea was made at the hospitals, was sold for
pigs’ food after the strength and nourishment were
extracted ; and thinking that the famished la-
bourers might be the better of it, he introduced it
into the village, with the result that, owing to the
low price, it was eagerly bought up by these poor
people. One poor fellow was neard to say Ah, if
I had food like this every day, it would soon make
a new man of me.*’ In the worst days of the bar-
barian Roman Empire, labourers, slaves, and helots,
however badly treated otherwise, were well and
liberally fed. It has been reserved for Christian
England in the 19th century to have a labouring
population worse off, in many respects, than any
slaves of ancient or modem times.
Regarding the blasphemy prosecution,
Truth says :—“ Foote and Ramsey ought to have
been tried for their offence against public decency.
But to rake up an old statute against blasphemy,
applicable alike to them and to Professor Huxley,
Mr. John Morley, and many other eminent men,
and, on conviction, to sentence theni to a years
imprisonment, was an abuse of law. The conduct
anu remarks of Mr. Justice North, who tried them,
were a disgrace to the Judicial Bench, bo we
think; for though Foote’s publication was grossly
indecent and tasteless, the prosecution was not
based on that evident fact, but an old statute was
hunted up and the law strained just to make it
apply to one certain case, to suit the bigoted pre-
judice of a Judge known to have strongly biassed
feelings on that case. Again, says Iruth .
“ What is wanted in a Judge is not a mere know-
ledge of law, but that sort of all-round knowledge
which is not learnt by poring over law-books.
We are sure of this. Were it otherwise, the sight
could scarely have been seen, of atossil on a judi-
cial bench, in a state of the most benighted igno-
rance of what went on around him, diligently
applying, in his legal decisions, the logic of the
rationalistic chicken : “ What I’ve not seen, I nevei
will believe in.”
It was regretfully mentioned at the last
meeting of the Ladies’ United Evangelistic Asso-
ciation that within a short distance of the city of
Melbourne large numbers of ladies, as well as
gentlemen, assembled on the Sabbath to play lawn-
tennis, croquet, &c.; that in another place the
sounds of a brass band were heard on that day, and
even a dancing pavilion, which was freely patron-
ise,!. Why should lawn-tennis, croquet, and danc-
ing be considered unlit pastimes for the day of
recreation ? What does Professor Blackie say in
the wisest of his lay sermons : “ Music and sketch-
ing in the country, easy social gatherings among
friends, and healthy games such as croquet, lawn-
tennis, golf, boating, though scarcely permitted by
British usage, are contrary neither to the letter
nor to the spirit of the Mosaic command. As tor
the brass band, doesn’t the L.U.E. Association
know that the brass band is now a religious insti-
tution. At the enthronization of the Archbishop
of Canterbury “ some brass instruments in the
hands of surpliced musicians added greatly to the
musical effect.” To keep on the right side of the
L U.E.A., wo would recommend brass bandsmen
to wear surplices on the Sabbath. A man in a sur-
plice working a trombone would produce a de-
cidedly novel, if not a distinctly religious, effect.
Bishop Pearson’s Letter for Sunday,
printed in the Echo of Saturday week, is
by no means unpleasant reading, but from one
end to the other it is a petitio prmcvpu. Irom his
stand (or sit) point, his ex cat)oedra_ argument is
right enough. If prelacy and ritualism (more or
less ornate), and Anglican service, and phrases
attuned to venerable dogmas, and sweet goody-
goodyisms about heaven, and terrible descriptions
of the penalties that await the reprobate-it these
things are religious essentials, then th® l *! and the
B 2 of his epistle are very good Bs, and the work
they are doing is the proper sort of honey-makmg.
But how if these things are not so? How it tne
observances they preach be little jitter than
national fetishes? Of couree, it sounds terrible to
episcopal ears to think that, on the babbath Day,
a Freethinker should be permitted to discuss
“Sutherland and Sulphur” united, in a taking 1
alliteration. But have their Right tteverendnesses
ever thought how terribly some of their views
sound in the ears of thousands of Freethinkers ?
If liberty be accorded to Mr. Sutherland to preach
Sulphur, and Dr. Pearson to preach, Unless a
man believe this, without doubt he shall perish
everlastingly,” why, in a free country, should you
or I be precluded from endeavouring to test the
quality of the sulphur and the specific gravity of
the damnation ?
Although for many years precedent to his
decease, Bishop Colenso had relinquished the Hold
of disputation, his quietude had been the repose of
a conqueror. The fate Bishop leaves a reputation
unapproached by that of any theologian of his
generation. Future generations will recognise in
him a reformer as great as Luther. The doctrine
of the literal interpretation and plenary inspiration
of the Bible had been often challenged before
Colenso, bishop of an obscure dependency, levelled
his critical lance at it. But the dogma had sur-
vived all shocks up to that time; and when the late
Bishop’s great work appeared, it was as distinctly
a blasphemy to doubt the scientific accuracy of the
Mosaic records, as it is to-day to question the
literal divinity of Christ. No one who had arrived
at years ol discretion when “Colenso on the
Pentateuch” was first published, can forget the
tremendous turmoil that w. rk occasioned. The
whole orthodox world rose in arms again-t it. The
press groaned in a constant delivery of rejoinders,
criticisms, contradictions and denunciations.
Every ambitious cleric recognised that his way to
a living or a bishopric was made easy. He had
only to publish a mushing rejoinder to Colenso.
Established authority stretched lorth its powerful
hand to crush the Horesiarch. Ur. Colenso was
solemnly deprived of his see and his episcopal
authority. An orthodox zealot, Dr. Grey, was
appointed bishop in his stead, and actually invaded
Ins See, and set himself up against the Bishop, wtio
had dared to think. And now—“Colenso on the
Pentateuch,” holds its place in every standard
collection of theological works, while the thousand
a< d one rejoinders, crushing replies, and so forth,
are rotting in the limbo of dead publications, and
no man can recall the name of one of their authors.
Recognizing its failure to crush Colenso, ortho-
doxy sank into silence, and absorbed his system.
The orthodoxy of to-dav is a Colenso orthodoxy.
Every essontial point ot his contentions has been
conceded. And there is a tacit consent even to his
most sweeping deductions. The school to which
belong the Bishops of Melbourne and of Newcastle
—a very extensive school in the old country—are
the creatures of Colenso’s teaching, a shame-faced
lot of deciples, who lack courage to acknowledge
the master from whom the dictinctive features of
MISTAKEN COURTESY ON THE PART OF A LITERARY GENTLEMAN.
their theology are derived. It is no use cocks
crowing in their hearing. They have not the grace
to weep bitterly. They merely shed copious floods
of explanations and qualifications. But none the
less, the Protestant Christianity of to-day is
Colenso protestantism, and a theology vastly dif-
ferent from that which preceded the rational re-
formation wrought by his powerful arraignments
of the fanatical and corrupt clinging to a gross
supernatural ism and unreason.
Christ was a socialist who bewailed the
wretchedness of the poor and the callousness of
the rich. Democracy must insist on Christ being
on its side, and the sects will tumble-or, rather,
there being vested interests they will not fall, but
will become democratic sooner than give up the
loaves and fishes. Here are some original verses
by Mr. W. Apsey, of Cobargo:—
When a religion has decay el into a super-
stition, without having lost its external power, it
is always more titan ever tyrannous an<l suspicious
in its hunting for heresy.... A Maori, who is a Wes-
leyan local preacher, was recently lined by the
Corornan el (NZ.i Bench, £3O and costs for retail-
ing grog on the sly at 10s. a bottle to Maoris and
bushinen Tt was on the Sabbath that this darkie
Stiggins usually dispensed his spirituous things ..
Uev. Mr. Peai ce, of South Y ana (Melbourne) has
been discoursing anent the Oxford Tracts, endea-
vouring tt show how subscribers to a Protestant
creed may yet hoi Papal tenets.. ..Thero are, in
the streets of Pans alone, eighteen hundred unfor-
tunate men who were once priests, and who have
become cab-drivers, omnibus conductor.!, street-
sweepers, etc... .The Sunday-school of the Bourke-
street Congregational Church last week presented
the Itev. Thomas Johnson, on the oocasion of his
retiring from the pastorate, with a set of harness 1
Well after all, considering that the rev. gentleman
was going out of harness, it may not have
been inappropriate to lit him out In winkers....
The Congregational Jubilee struggle has resulted
in the scooping in of some £24,000. No wonder
G. A. Lloyd, Pastor Jefferis, and the Morning
Herat.d young men have such pieasant smirks on
their faces... .The Sydney Presbyterian defines
an atheist as “a full-grown libertine.” Bishop
Riley, of Mexico, who has never received any
screw for the last dozen years, has spent some
£130,000 of his own private means during that
period, on forwarding the work of his see.
“Setting a blanked bad example,” says a Very
Reverend Vicar-General, who firmly believes that
labourers in the vineyard are worthier of hire
pay than they get.
Thus Talmage, recently, when on his pray-
ing stilts Hasten, Lord, that happy day when
this great Sahara of human sorrows will crimson
into the bloom and verdure of Eden.” This crim-
son verdure ” reminds us of the saying that
“blackberries are red when they are green.
The Rev. J. T. Walford, M.A, late Fellow of
King’s College, Cambridge, and for five years assist-
ant-master at Eton, was in April ordained priest by
Dr. Knight, Roman Catholic Bishop of Shrewsbury,
in the Chapel of St. Benno’s College, near St. Asaph,
Father Wynne, formerly Fellow of All Souls’ Col-
lege, Oxford, presenting him for ordination—The
Cninese have no word that is equivalent to hell
and no conception of such a place. Big held
for missionaries with “ Glad tidings of great joy 1
in China... Lord Shaftesbury says that not two per
cent, of the working classes of England attend any
church service .. Mr. R. W. Dale lecturing in Dub-
lin on oaths, ridiculed the contention that they are
necessary for the defence of morality, and pointed
out that the Dublin assassins were bound together
by an oath A commission was sent by Japan to
give a report of the influence of Christianity upon
morals in England. After eighteen months of life
the decision was that Christianity had less restraint
over crime, and especially drunkenness, than
Buddhism or the religion of Shinto, so the public
religion of Japan will remain unchanged. ...Arch-
bishop Croke. in response to the appeal of Leo
XIII. urging him to abstain from agitation, says:
“I’ll do Vat-I-can to oblige you. ,T .... The Rev.
Randall S. Davidson, sub-almoner to the Queen,
formerly chaplain to Archbishop Tait, has dropped
in to the Deanery of Windsor (vice Connor de-
ceased). Windsor is a “ deanery in peculiars,” and
is worth £2OOO a year. The Dean of Windsor is
ex offlcio Registrar of the Order of the Garter and
Domestic Chaplain of the Sovereign.
“COMFORT YE MY PEOPLE.”
’Tis He who speaks, who held the tides
O’er armies by the sea;
Whose hands swept back the waters till
All He had loved went free:
Whose face looked through the pillar then,
With temples swoll’n with wrath,
Which struck upon the flying sea
That sweating plunged afroth;
While earth stood still in gaping awe
At anger of the God,
Who hurled His maddened waters where
The oppressor late had trod.
’Tis He who speaks, who raised the hills,
And graved his nam on rock,
With lightnings from His bended bow,
By Sinai’s quaki g block;
Who swept the mount with fiery glance,
And made HD presence felt
In thunders that shook down the hills
Whereon the kneclers knelt:
Who dared n >t rise, but bent them down
And clasped the breathing ground
That move and heaved beneath His look,
And shrunk where He had frowned.
But comfort ye Hi people, and
Stvrn Anger’s direst flush
Shull be to thee protection, though
His arm be ■ aised to crush;
And wrath that rends the world apart,
While totters every hill,
To thee shall bo that, Shieldqr’s voice
That breathed the “ Peace! be still 1
Ah! comfort ye His people, all
The helpless, old, and poor;
His wronged and His defenceless ones
Awreck on every shore—
Where sunbeams rarely linger, and
Where breaks the crested foam
Remorseless on the bosoms that
Not yet have found a home.
It burst in shattered fragments from
A tender gallant heart,
What time they stripped and nailed Him up,
And pierced with jeer and dart;
“ Had I been there -why, with these hands.
I’d ” Common braggart— peace!
Not such as thou dare rise to deeds,
Or seas of tears might cease.
It roll’d in tides down Calvary,
Through sand and soil and cleft,
Nor yet has reached His weary ones
That legacy Ho left:
The comfort for his people with
All human mercy life,
And meant for wealth of sunshine o’er
Kacii desolated life.
REMEMBER THIS,
IP YOU ARB SICK.
If you are sick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature in making you well
again when all else fails.
If you are comparatively well, but feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of
HOP IIITTEItS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from any other of the numer-
ous diseases of the stomach er bowels,
it is your own fault if you remain ill,
for
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints.
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will find a “Balm
in Gilead ” in the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of all coun-
tries—malarial, epidemic, bilious and in-
termittent fevers—by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, HOP BITTERS
will give you fair skin, rich blood, the
sweetest breath, health, and comfort.
In short, they cure- ALL Diseases of
the Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Liver,
Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
£5OO
will be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or Inju-
rious found in the them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
Hop Bitters, costing but a trifle.
Will you let them suffer ?
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
GRAHAM,
TiilLOE,
531
George St., Sydney.
Palace of Fashion
and Art.
" The Apparel oft proclaims the Man.”
MR. J. GRAHAM has recently returned from
a Special
BUSINESS TOUR
Vn the United States and Europe (London, Paris,
Berlin, &c.), and has arranged for the introduction
per each Mail Steamer of the
Newest, Costliest, and Most Fashionable
CLOTHING- MATERIAL,
simultaneously with their introduction by the
fashionable Houses of London and Paris, ko.
CLOTHING is made up at the shortest notice by
the best talent in Australia and London, and exact
reproductions of London and Paris Fashions in
Art and Material guaranteed.
Ballroom and Bridal Outfits, and Evening Drew
Suits, in a style unequalled or unsurpassed.
Mr. J. Graham speaks through the Press to the
gentlemen in the most distant parts of the interior.
Prompt attention and Advice given in matters of
Dress, Style, &c., with instructions for measure-
ment, free of cost, and the best and most satisfac-
tory results guaranteed.
IS?” For the protection of the Public, the name
GRAHAM and the figures S3l are of mammoth
dimensions—the largest on any establishment in
ail Australia.
fSP” The Fashionable World of Australia, and
the great middle class of the cities and towns as
well, are requested to continually note the an-
nouncements in this column, from
J. GRAHAM, Tailor,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The high school, hobart, Tasmania.
Rector: The Rev. R. D. Poulett-Harris, M.A.,
Trinity College, Cambridge. Headmaster: Mr. Ed.
Edmondson, Christ Church, Oxford. The salubrity
of the Tasmanian climate, combined with the high
standard maintained by the Council of Education,
has brought the collegiate advantages of the colony
prominently under the notice of Australian
Earents. The High School occupies the head place
l the degree lists. It surpasses all colonial educa-
tional establishments in the healthiness and beauty
of its situation, which is upon a slope bordering
the Queen’s Domain, and in the vicinity of thb
Cricket Ground and Saltwater Baths. The T.B.N.
Co. issue return tickets to scholars at single fares.
Prospectus and terms may be obtained from Mr,
JAMES E. CUNNINGHAM, 130 Elizabeth-street*
Sydney, or from the Rector.


CHAMPION
p iGEON HANDICAP
OPEN TO ALL THE COLONIES,
T ° B E SHOT AT GOULBURN, N.S.W.,
In August, 1383
® e tireen the Hawkesbury and Metropolitan
Race Meetings).
STEWARDS:
h s 'p B ’ f- Cooper, W. Davis, S. Meyer, .T. Sands,
■tod Weston ’ A* Phelps, Badgery
{| r AND
Save
handicap PIGEON MATCH, of 100
fl 8 ’ with a sweepstakes of 5 sovs. each
NikW, 1 ac 1 ce Ptors ; fifteen birds each ; 100 yards
{rotn 2i 12-bore guns ; 1)4 of shot; handicap
att 'cl rmi 28 yards ; single trap ; use of one
atranup,! y - To be shot in squads, as may be
and numbers drawn for each shot.
5.1.y r K?p e l er! of 1 sov., to be paid on WEDNES-
Handicaps to appear in all
>ers the following Saturday. Ac-
r « Hr,, ■ which must be accompanied by amount
%Wn*’ T a rt of sweep, on MONDAY, 13th
hornih„Balance, 3 soys., at 10 o’clock on the
rfh -°f the match.
lfee P sovs, and 50 per cent, of the
ityefvn'f ’ 29 P er cent, for 2nd, and 10 per cent
ror 3rd shooters.
HENRY PAYTEN, Sec.,
Goulbourn, N.S.W.
f °*ler
ESTABLISHED 1837.
’S POTTERY
brickworks,
Ca MPeRDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
and
List on application.
•1/ CONSULTATIONS.
AI BTR C
fetri
■OBOLITAN, & MELBOURNE CUP, 1883.
lfelbn?, oßtan ) 5000 shares at 10s. each ... £2500
°hrne Cup, 10,000 shares at 10s. each £5OOO
lio^PoUumVtakes.
B ”
Ks-
£2soo
t
&81» Mascott'e’Company thanks the public for
i on application.
t' u *r Bunvi ,i 2 Company
•r a i»( )r< J’ ol 't in previous consultations, and hopes
T^e 1 nilan o e their patronage for this pro-
<!&«pn, hy letter only.
11 ts please state for which event.
D. LINDO,
A Box 723, P. 0.;
\P*&stway’s Hotel, King-street, Sydney.
W. H. PALING,
George street, Sydney.
-^2
fortes,
6 f
Pianofortes,
Pianofortes.
lowing renowned English, French, and
German Makers:
eto
Co.
Aucher
Ronisch
tlundt & Solin
Rluthner
Steinway
Schiedmayer
Challen & Son
Eeke
Elcke
Paling & Co.
A. Bord
Berden & Co.
Herz
Schwechten
Schwander.
Porster
Dumer ous other Manufacturers.
& Co., Palace Organ Company;
&C,* OtVo® S o, > Peloubeht, and others.
°%v3 &ainL Celebrated Organs, besides other
*at and Speciat, Prize over all
t{ 4u l °cent Sydney Exhibition.
BY At.WXASDBB & Co., ETC.
?h«iJ
CUBIC always on hand.
I IT V NT NOTICE.
■- P.’s, removal to those immense
, : .ncor, lately occupied by Prince,
Magnificent Stock will be
3& :
~r * > PH CES at
S • BALING
GISGROE STREET.
S,
. 5
Jj (
th? u ! ' T T.—This favourite brand
rrjVi: a,,. i>t«>vri, 'rtfeh great care from the
H'ji&t b e n"‘ tl vs& l *£* the celebrated Arm of
0 ? c cllo ( i fHl m ' Dublin, and therefore
« Cog Q j 0 J-" rocured everywhoro.
mi
COMFORTABLE 'I ECTH
The use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are tbiee kinas, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the Fellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to pet sons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
gums,decay and offensive breath, for by using- a few
drops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never suffer again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the lied is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
see that each Label bears the name, “ Wilcox and
Co., 239 Oxford-street, London .”
IS
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate relief in
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis,
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them invaluable, as they instantly check the
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
see that each box bears the name of “ Wilcox and
Co., 239 Oxford-street, London.”
IP your Chemist or Grocer cannot or will not
supply you with the “ PAINLESS CORN
RELIEVER,” write direet to the Registered Pro-
prietor, who will forward a bottle to all parts of
Australasia, Post Free, for 2s. 6d.
Address:-JOHN CLOWES,
One Mile Creek, Gympie.
BULL-DOG ALE.-IT is not the’ clearness
or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALE
at preserves this i rand first in public
__timation. Common bitter crude beers are
made very fine, but no other brand has the
same mellow vinous cha;acter, the fullness on
the palate, and the great J- eeping qualities of the
BULL-DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cau-
tioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred
to as equal in quality to BULL-DOG. CATTELL
& CO., Agents. Newcastle Agents: WOOD
BROTHERS & CO.
A. GORMAN,
Late of the Telegraph Hotel, Inverell,
HAS OPKNED THE
4 Claren-don,’
Corner of ELIZABETH & PARK Streets,
And which he intends to keep as a first-class Hotel,
A. G. hopes, by strict attention to Business, to
gain a share of their PATRONAGE. VISITORS
will find this surpasses most of the leading
HOTELS for ACCOMODATION and every CON-
VENIENCE : and, as it overlooks HYDEPARK.it
must necessarily bo WELL VENTILATED.
SUITES of ROOMS for FAMILIES,
as per agreement.
HOT and COLD WATER BATHS.
PORTER in Attendance Day and Night.
It is not necessary to mention the quality of the
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, &c. &c„ as he is, and al-
ways has been, noted throughout the COLONIES
for selling nothing but the very best.
D. W. CLARKSON,
TAILOR,
Removed to 97 Market Street,
Near ELIZABETH STREET.
TWEED SUITS from £3 3s.
TWEED TROUSERS, 16s. Gd.
A. PERFECT FIT.
P. R. LIARKXN,
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPIRITS,
Begs to announce to bis town and country friends, that he has just completed
extensive additions to his
Wholesale and Detail Bottle Department,
Which is now replete with a well-assorted stock of the Best Brands of Wines and Spirits, personally
selected by the proprietor during his recent visit to Europe. He can therefore confidently recommend
the quality and by charging a reasonable price, as per the following- list, hopes to merit a share ot tneir
patronage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
hrt
POUT WINE.
Per Bottle,
s d
40-year old, Gilbey’s
Celebrated Pour Diamond
Quality—No. 1 (very superior old)
No. ***** grape
****
***
No! **
No. *
Draught Port Wine, per Imperial quart
SHERRY.
40-year old, Gilbey’s
Very Finest Amontillado (very dry) ...
Pine Amontillado
Celebrated Pour Diamond Sherry
Common Sherry
Draught Sherry Wine, per Imperial quart j
BRITISH WINES.
James Heddle’s Ginger Wine
Orange Wine
IRISH WHISKY.
Jameson’s ***
Old Dublin Whisky (***) bottled by Burke ...
Kinahan’s unrivalled L L
Thorne’s Old Irish Whisky
Jameson’s 3s 6d and
Dunville’s
Kinahan’s Draught, per Imperial quart
Jameson’s ~ „
Flasks ... 2s6dand
SCOTCH WHISKY.
Walker’s 7-year old, in bulk ... ... ...
Thistle Blend
Royal Blend
Lome Highland
Kilmarnock
Glen!ivet ...
Glenlivet Whiskj
Flasks
4s and
, 3s 6d and
, per Imperial quart...
Bs 6d and
6 S
6 0
6 0
4 0
2 0
5 0
4 0
3 0
2 0
2 0
GIN.
Blue Bell or Yellow Seal Geneva , ... 4 0
Celebrated Key Brand, very large size, each
bottle containing more than a quart ... 3fi
Flasks Key Gin ... Is and 1 0
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, all returns being
allowed for. pf” Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at the Railway
Station or any wharf in the city, Free of Charge.
P. R. LARKIN’S CASE OP ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS—On receipt of £3, the following
genuine articles will be forwarded in Square Bottles, securely packed in a case
6 Quarts KEY GIN, 1 Quart WHISKY, 1 Quart SUPERIOR PORT WIRE,
2 Quarts PALE BRANDY, 5 Quarts WEST INDIA RUM, 1 Quart SUPERIOR SHERRY WINE
TOTAL—IS QUARTS.
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have
Siven perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, please make Post Office
rders payable at the Haymarket Post Office.
Kindly Note the Address—
P. R. LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail Wine & Spirit Merchant & Importer,
George and Gipps Sts., Haymarket, Sydney.
JOHN BANKS ,
IMPORTER OP
AND ALL THE NECESSARY
Fittings for same,
363 Pitt Street, Sydney.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
WIRE WORKERS,
■\7TTTSH to call your attention to WIRE GOODS
VV we make and have in stock as tinder
FLOWER STANDS, for holding flowers in pots,
made of iron and wire, handsomely framed mid
bronzed, suitable for rooms, halls, balconies, ver-
andahs, and conservatories. Also, WIRE FERN
BASKETS, all sizes and prices.
SIEVES and SCREENS, for screening ltaie,
gravel, coal, &c., all meshes, from 1 hole to 100
oles to the squares inch.
WIRE LATTICE-WORK, for protection of win-
dows from breakage caused by hail-storms or boys’
throwing stones. Also, WIRE NETTING, all sizes,
from 12 in. to 72 in. wide.
CAGES of every description, for canaries and
parrots, singly or in nests, suitable for store-
keepers.
And every description of WIRE WORK made on
the premises.
EASTWAY, BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE-STREET.
tSST” Illustrated Catalogues on application.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
“THE criterion;’
15 HoyaS Urcade 15.
FIRST-CLASS LUNCHEON and REFRESHMENT
ROOMS for LADIES and GENTLEMEN.
The comfort of Ladies has been especially attended
to. An ELEGANTLY-FURNISHED APARTMENT
has been set aside for their sole use. It will be
supplied with writing materials, daily papers,
journals, &c., &c.
Gentlemen in town can obtain, AT ALL HOURS,
COLD LUNCHEONS—Ham, Beef, Tongue, Sar-
dines, Salads, Hard-boiled Eggs, &e., &e.
Cup of Tea or Coffee, with Light Refreshment.
6d.; equal in every respect to the celebrated
“ citITERION ” BUFFET, LONDON.
Celebrated American Iced Drinks.
EDWARD MAWBY,
Proprietor.
A
“Yankee Doodle”
it
Conqueror ” Tobaccos.
The above Brands are so well established in the
minds and tastes of all smokers for their purity
and excellence, that it merely remains for us to
caution all against imitations which we regret are
numerous.
DIXSON & SONS’ Registered Chief Brands are—
Dark Twists : Yankee Doodle, Twists, 10’s & 20’a 5
Conqueror, Twists, 20’s ; Sir Roger, Thick Twists,
10’s ; Challenge, Twists, 10’s and 20’s. Ddrk plug
Tobaccos ; The original and only genuine Tin Tag
Yankee Doodle ; Plugs (stamped with a single
round Tin Tag). Conqueror Plugs (stamped with
a single round Tin Tag). Bright Tobaccos » Gem
of the South ; Sir Roger, &c., &C. Cut Tobaccos :
(in J4-lb tins and packets—full weights and with
Sure tin foil) Rough Cut Ruby ; Oriental Mixture ;
ogrohead ; Gold and Cigarette Leaf, &c., &<?., &c
N.B.—We import regular shipments of Briar,
Cherry, Meerschaum, Clay, and all other Pipes;
Cigars, Cigarettes, and all other Tobacconists
Goods.
DIMS 081 and SOftSS,
155 YORK STREET SYDNEY.
1
m
THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT'
on fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT’,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
.Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
I. Y. WAREHAM, Manager.
Tr IRKER, GREER, & CO., DISTILLERS
-IV. BELFAST and GLASGOW.
LOCH DHU, very oldest and purest Scotch
Whiskey.
SHAMROCK, very oldest and purest Irish
Whiskey.
Won 4 Gold Medals and Australian Exhibitions.
Government Analyst says: Unusually ppre,
mellow, and well-matured. ,
FROM ALL SPIRIT MERCHANTS.
Agent: G. ADAMS,
119 Pitt-st., Sydney, and Flinders-st., Melbournne


Foster’s Bugle Brand.
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
yj
BASS PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE,’S
MERCHANTS.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
TxiiTßrf
t 1
•H n *
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ys in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
wgs
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &o.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET,
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
TO CONNOISEURS of WHISKEY & BRANDY.
W. & A. Gilley'S CASTLE BRAND WHIS-
KEY and L’OR EXTRAIT BRANDY are the
oldest and purest spirits imported.
TUCKER & CO., Agents,
377 George-street.
I)OBERT BUTCHER & CO
-*-* J (Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
EL BOURNE CUP, 18 8 3
LEVIATHAN “ADAMASTOR” COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £20,000 in 40,000 SHARES of 10s Each.
624 PRIZES (more or less), £12,750 for STARS,
and £7350 for HORSES.
Plan of Astronomical Distribution:
First Horse (winner of the Melbourne Cup)... £3OOO
Second Horse 1500
Third Horse 750
Starters (divide) 800
Non-starters (do) 1200
*** First Star £2OOO ***
*** Second Star 1000 ***
*** Third Star 500 ***
12 stars of £2OO each, 100 stars of £lOO each, 20
stars of £5O each, 20 stars of £4O each, 45 stars of £25
each, 100-towns of £lO each, 200 towns of £8 each,
85 towns of £6 each, and “ the comet ” £4O.
“ Adamastor,” in thanking his subscribers for the
liberal support that he has received from them for
the past three years, and in consequence of the
yearly increase of subscribers, finds it necessary to
double his programme, which he begs herewith to
submit.
All parties are requested to forward drafts, P.O.
orders, or cheques; if cheques, exchange must be
added, and in ail cases postage fees; if cash, to
register letter. Application by letter only, ad-
dressed—
ADAMASTOR,” care of L. A. Pereira, 34
Bourke-street, west, Melbourne; Box 473, G.P.0.,
Sydney; and Little’s Bass Hotel, corner Pitt and
Market Streets, Sydney.
P.S.—Results sent to country shareholders, and
published in The Australasian, Age, and Sydney
Town and Country.
NERVOUS DEBILSTY.
A CURE GUARANTEED.
3
H E RV
TREATMENT
Dll. E. C. WEST’S NERVE & BRAIN TREAT-
MENT.
A guaranteed specific for hysteria, dizziness, con-
vulsions, tits, nervous neuralgia, headache, nervous
prostration caused by the use of alcohol or tobacco,
wakefulness, mental depression, softening of the
brain resulting in insanity and leading to misery,
decay, and death; premature old age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain or over-indulgence.
Each box contains one month’s treatment, ss. a
box, or six boxes for 355.; sent by mail prepaid on
receipt of price. We guarantee six boxes to cure
any case. With each order received for six boxes,
accompanied with 355., the purchaser will receive
the manufacturer’s written guarantee to refund
the money if the treatment does not effect a cure.
Guarantees issued by all chemists and druggists in
Australia.
YDROPATH Y.-MR. JOSEPH REEVE,
Hydropathic Physician.
An Infallible System of Purification for the Cure
of Coughs, Colds Acute or Chronic Indigestion, Con-
stipation, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Paralysis, Liver
Complaint, Skin Eruptions, or any other Inflam-
matory Diseases. All persons who are suffering,
and weary of using physic, and hopeless, are in-
vited to adopt this Hygiene System. A few weeks’
treatment will suffice for nearly every case.
Ladies and Children attended to. In-door Patients
received at the Establishment. Terms on
application.
“ Throw physic to the dogs, I’ll none of it.”—
. Shakespeare.
“Purification in the old law did save life.” Milton.
Address:
8 Royal Terrace, Nicholson Street,
FITZROY, MELBOURNE.
SENT in an Envelope for 6d. Stamps to defray
Postage.
SOCIAL SCIENCE:
A Treatise on all Nervous Disorders which cause
Impediments to Marriage, and all Chronic
Diseases ; also, How to Choose a Partner for Life,
so as to live happy and produce healthy children,
and how to regain and preserve your health, &c„ &c.
Address: R. T. SELBY, Medical Herbalist,
Devonshire-street, Surry Hills, Sydney.
Copyright®
MOUSTACHE AND WHISKERS.
Boyd's Beard ttlixir did this, and will do it
on either’bald head or’bare face. 'LForees
heavy Moustache m from 2 to iweeks and
never fails,''2o;ooo young men already wear
I full beard, having used Ito 3 pkt’s. No
injury, easily applied, certain in effect.
Packets Is. (id. each,3 for'3s,'6dl', post paid,
sent under cover,free from observation. Address; Fb an K Douglas
Sole Agent, Box 730, 6.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W;
BLEND
[trade]
mark]
jX
Stf/S TEHtS
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.—This is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
'2'
a LAS
RE-COVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY,
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
cuted.
Turkish Baths.
For GENTLEMEN.—OPEN DAILY (Sundays and
Wednesday afternoons excepted).
For LADIES.—On Wednesday Afternoons only,
from 2 p.m. till 10 p.m.
These Baths have been pronounced to be highly
beneficial to all persons suffering from l’heumatism,
gout, neuralgia, dyspepsia, indigestion, cold, sci-
atica, and all complaints of this nature, as well as
being a healthy, invigorating renewing ef the
system to all persons obliged to lead sedentary
fives.
Try it, and experience its wonderful effects.
Prices of Admission—Single bath, ss. Six tickets, £l.
After 5 p.m., 2s. for gentlemen only. Quarterly
ticket, £5. Family ticket as per arrangement.
C. A. SHERWIN, Manager.
Bligh Street.
ECURE A LOT AT SPRINGSIDE;
£1 DEPOSIT, £1 PER MONTH.
FORTUNATTJS FINANCIAL, LAND, AND
INVESTMENT COMPANY,
317 PITT STREET,
Near Temperanee Hall.
~W\T AT SON AND CRANE,
▼ ▼ SILVER, NICKEL, & GOLD PLATERS.
BRASS FOUNDERS AND MANUFACTURERS.
Old Electroplated Ware, Cruets, Spoons, and
Forks, Tea Services, &c., re-silver plated equal to
new, at Moderate Charges.
NICKEL PLATING on Brass, Iron, and Metal
Furniture and Fittings of all kinds in Best Style at
Lowest Prices.
JEWELLERY, &c., WELL GILT.
STEAM, BRASS, & ELECTROPLATING WORKS,
336 PITT STREET,
P. KIEBT,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TT nm. cLertalnea:,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
E WOLFF AND SON,
• Manufacturers of
Black Lead Pencils, Drawing Chalks, Crayons,
Artists’ Materials, and Stationers’ Sundries.
Makers, by appointment, to Her Majesty’s Govern-
ment and the Bank of England.
Office and Warehouse: 55 Great Queen-street,
Lincoln’s Inn Fields, W.C. Factory: Falcon Pencil
Works, Battersea, London, S.W. A full set of
samples can be seen, and further particulars ob-
tained, on application to
E. B. WOLFF (Sole Agent for N.S.W.), care of
Messrs. Feldheim, Gotthelf and Co., 30 Hunter-
street, Sydney.
IMI T H AND MANNEEE,
SHIRT TAILORS, HOSIERS, & MERCERS,
298 George Street, Sydney.
Established 1844.
Our CELEBRATED WHITE SHIRTS, ready made
80s., 405., 505., COs. the half-dozen.
■egg
The Autophone
The oriental gold company
have been appointed Australian Agents for
this, the Climax of Musical Invention. Call and
see them.
GEORGE STREET,
Just Opposite the Entrance to the Markets.
The Autophone is a wonderful little instrument,
which, while it weighs less than three pounds, has
the lungs of a full-sized parlour organ, and exe-
cutes its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect.
It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three keys, and
all the parts of most difficult music.
On it a child can correctly play, without instruc-
tion, any of its music, which at present consists of
over 300 selections from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas,
Waltzes, Polkas, Marches, Popular Songs, &c. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, in which chords predominate, but also
has wonderful power in executing very lively
pieces.
It is pitched for the voice or orchestra, and has
a little card-holder for convenience in singing.
Any orchestral Instrument, Violin, Flute, &e., can
be played to accompany the Autophone.
It is entirely well-adapted for Country Churches,
Sunday Schools, the Family Circle, and also for
Dancing.
The AUTOPHONE is like every other good thing,
the longer you have it the better you like it; and
as new music is being published every week, it has
an endless fund of amusement in it.
30s.
dfg
30s.
a
II I IIHI lIIS
1
3B9VS
maasr
,l
VISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
FOR
CHEAPNESS, PIT, AND WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any
part of the Colony.
[ASK FOR
XSMm
aw n
z&T' LATE
JAM ES WALKER
EDINBURGH
P 7
Nm
Registered
&
V
10 be had from ALL WINE AND SPIS*
CHANTS, and WHOLESALE from tbe
SOLE AGENTS:
JOSEPH BOYD & SO
1 CHANGE ALLEY, PITT STREET,
(Near the Circular Quay).
To be procured in Cases, Casks, Octaves, aQI
$
VW™ Please read Certificates of
Certificates from the 42nd Royal
jamiso vv lor 14 years, till ms
still supplied to them by JAMES HADDO lyV
the purchasers of James Walker’s
the right to use his name on all Labels, 1 D
Seals, and his Trade marks and symbols.
IgaF” Notice—The above label
JOSEPH BOYD & 1
WRIGHT,HEATON&O
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIER 5
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom
f and Commission Agents -
HEAD OFFICE
241 Pitt Street, Sy^'
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT 0?
SOUTH WALES.
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.S.tV.:
Goulburn
Yass
Bowning
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Junee
Wagga Wagg a
Hanging BocK
Culcairn
Cowabee
Narandera
Hulong
Carrathool
Hay
Western District, N.S.W.s
Oapertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
Nevertire
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblin
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
Northern District, N.S.^ ,:
Morpeth
Gunnedah
Narrabri
WaJg'ett
Brewarrina
Tarn worth
Ur alia
QUEENSLAND BRANCH®®" ,
Southern and South-West®® 1 * ' "
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby
r?ulba
C booya
Central
Rockhampton
Bogantungan
Emerald
df
Northern
Townsville
Charters Towers
»:•
Agents in Victoria mu
WM. M CULLOCK &
I
, *ol^
%W Agencies in ail par
■ Jk
Sydney Gynvd s^\
LIVERPOOL yjL&tf
Ladies’ and GwfTJjfsaßjr'o 1
ALL BRANCHES OF ATHL®* %(>
G. H. d’HAROOUHSf lastl


1
V.
s*
V
m
m
41 GeOR^Sl
SYIJNEXi- iS -^
5 WrOPPOSITGPOST Office;
JkATe.OT* 295 ©EOP66 STI»CGT
®°7al Arcade, George Street, Sydney.
Rse
mo
and RILEY
hn J&te N.S.W. Detective Force),
y® llB.fi TDantr tranito* AvnomAnioft in
Merchants an
experience in America,
and the Australian Colonies,
erchants and Tradespeople in gene-
have opened the above premises as a
tI IPRIVATE ENQUIRY OFFICE,
!^ru S tg hope, by strict attention to all matters
n*°Wa»n 10 care, to merit a share of their
Q Orce, Libel, Fraud, Missing Friends,
Strictest secrecy in all cases.
Ura . 9 a.m. till 10 p.m. First-class references
f^ERHANGINGS!
xtV? to match,
nursery papers.
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, &C.
AI Imported by
gander Borthwick,
htrß STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
& DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
nj h.ite Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, Var-
nj 0 i vAlio, x clllll'Bf vUiIM
wishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &c.
fi J - W. R. CLARKE,
°°kse//er& Stationer
6 MARKET buildings,
«GE STREET, SYDNEY,
Market Street.
111,6 COUNTRY MILK.
W
SUPPLIED BY THE
p
Food & Ice Co., Limited,
b e re b cc j upon aa being
Hb ei Ai *WAYS PURE,
from the country districts) as
ifom city contaminations.
Butter.
Manufactured at their own depAfc
11 ' )est butter-makers in the
ir lrj r?, i, k twice daily, Sundays excel,tod,
e °kly C irt : .uug delivery is made. Butter by
ty» daily; suburbs, three times
W r
00c t & Ice Co., Limited,
Ha »BOUR street.
**OT
POUNDS’ WORTH PRIZES.
f 2oo° p liIZEg £2OOO.
AL SOCIETY of new south
wales.
show opens
24th AUGUST, 1883.
SSt^hogp-'w—
u ' 5 Pm. on WEDNESDAY,
te to the * ndsof the ere-
.l) w - that date.
%
H
SjlNsi
feffcje " *&*.
Bfeofo, soo
IllSt® ; 250
A,"t&i •. ,r *)
100
loknc c hft .'d f or .
EEP, HORSES,
OTRV, Ac.,
s and valuable
ES
)RMS can be ob-
fflees, 347 Ge >rge-
sON, Seorotc ry.
a m e cup,
7 1883 Series.
SWEEP.
even 4, Cl.
?s at, £35 £250
10- - 500
5 250
„ Grand total, £3OOO
on ° , ev onte induces me to an-
SoiVhvl^ontVth Melbourne Cup, the
SSfali ped ft the year, as above.
<NhHn2* Onih Bc HbeJL ea *g papei and for-
n, ,, tt.WJ l en3 om , Br B- A rmnnVl Hy. -i, ~
£lOOO
A pound secures four
Per cent, is deducted
s are requested to en-
cheques (to wiiich
Ok
r lette la nd 4d ‘ stamps for reply
*^STRALASIA”
. iff Mr tr ~■ l iinou
fREET, SYDNEY.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
308 GEORGE STREET.
■■'CBLEBRtftP:
8^
'
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD’S
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
Sr MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
XBuLaA.
m
C. B. EfiODINI,
Gun Maker & Cutler .
TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 002 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborne ; also Angelo Bor-
doni, of Brescia, Italy.
J LAWLER, 608 George-street, Bedding Manu-
• facturer, Importer of Brass and Iron Bed-
steads, American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair,
Kapok, and Cotton Flock. Established 1860.
San Francisco Palace of Art,
LATE
BO YD.
This establishment, so well known throughout the Australian Colonies, is now prepared
in addition to the usual FIRST-CLASS PORTRAIT WORK, to furnish the public, as well
as TOWN and COUNTRY TRADE, with Copies or Enlargements to Life Size from any
photograph or negative by any of the following processes: —Opals, Autotype, Transfer or
Albumenized Paper, plain or coloured.
Prices on application at the Gallery, 252 GEORGE STREET, or by letter.
The same staff of Artists who have rendered the work of this establishment so famous
are employed, and all negatives taken for the past four years carefully preserved, from
which copies may be had on application.
W. T. BENNETT, Manager.
ALCOCK & CO.’S
BilllsurcL TsuToles.
J. GARDYNE, Agent.
105 ZEPItt Street, S^rd-rre^r.
Time Payment System if required.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.’S
Bon Accord Brass, Copper, Lead & Iron Works ?
8 and 9 MACQUARIE PLACE,
PLUMBERS AND GAS FITTERS, ART METAL WORKERS, &C. MANUFACTURERS AND
IMPORTERS OF CHANDELIERS, BRASS WINDOW SASH BARS, DIVING GEAR,
gvd
fg
PUMPS, HELMETS,
DRESSES, HOSE,
SPRINGS, GUERNSEYS,
STOCKINGS, BOOTS
(with load soles),
REAAIRING CLOTH,
SOLUTION, and all
ACCESSORIES, &c.
THE MARSHALL
WINDOW FASTENER,
THE CHEAPEST
and
MOST INEXPENSIVE
FASTENER MADE.
Prevents all rattling, and
fastens the window at
any height.
No weights, pulleys, cords, &c.,
required.
d
Celebrated CHAMPION ROLLER SKATES, and every other make, always on hand. Wheels, Soles
Bodies, and all Accessories. Manufacturers of the PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
Ranges Fitted with Hot and Cold Water, Circulating Apparatus and Boilers.
MEDALLISTS AND SPECIAL PRIZE HOLDERS. IST ESTABLISHED 1855.
H. P. GREGORY. ZL SHAW SMITH. S. W. GREGORY.
H, P. GREGORY & CO..
Engineers Machinery Merchants
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR
Fay & Co.’s Woodworking Machinery
Tanite Co.’s Emery Wheels and Machines
Blake’s Brass-lined Special Steam Pumps
Korting’s Injectors
Eclipse Windmills
Sturtevant’s Pans.
A LARGE STOCK OF THE ABOVE ALWAYS IN OUR STORES,
as well as all
SAW MILL, PLANING MILL, AND MINING REQUISITES,
17 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
HAWKES AND COMPANY,
TATTERSALL’S HORSE BAZAAR
and
SALE YARDS,
CORNER of CASTLEREAGH and HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sales Daily, or outside when required.
Horses kept at Livery; excellent accommodation
and fodder.
All kinds of Vehicles and Horses on Hire, day
or night.
Weddings and Picnic Parties supplied with good
carriages.
TRAMS SET DOWN AT THE DOOR.
Conveyances fitted with Hampers for Excursion
Parties.
Sale, Livery, and Let-out Department entirely
separate.
“WHAT IS A SECRET?”
SOMETHING told to everybody in a whisper.
Please tell all your friends this Secret, that
they will study both “Comfort and Economy” in
having their supply of WOOD and COAL from
NOTTING & CO.,
COAL AND FUEL MERCHANTS,
Cowpeb’s Wharf,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO BAY.
TRY IT—YOU CAN’T BEAT IT!
fgd
V*Y
N
/•
fvg
df
Sole Agents?
gd
ROBERT PHILLIPS AND CO-. 263 CEORCE BTREET, SYDNEY
M. T H 0 M A ,
IMPORTER OF
IS" WORKS OF ART,
GERMAN & SWISS WOOD CARVINGS,
ARCADE BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
vgd
w.
KERR,
Watchmaker
Jeweller,
and
Silversmith.
f
JJAS JUST OPENED HIS NEW PREMISES
544 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the TOWN HALL,
With a magnificent stock of Diamond, Roman,
and Vienna Jewellery,
GOLD AND SILVER WATCHES & CLOCKS,
Football, Cricketing, and Trophy Speciality.
Note the Address—
-644 GEORGE STREET.
“HISTORY REPEATS ITSELF.”
As Eve tempted the First Man, so EVE TEMPTS
THE PRESENT MAN; but, luckily, not the same
Eve, but
Tsi:ccl©!3 Eve,
140 KING STREET,
Opposite Theatre Royal Entrance.
With the Best Brands of AM Tobacco and Cigars.
I A M O N D.’
MELBOURNE CUP CONSULTATION 1883.
Capital £lO,OOO in 30,000 Shares of 10 shillings eaoh
DISTRIBUTED AS FOLLOWS:-
sdfgd
2 Prizes of £260 each, £5OO
6 Prizes of 100 „ 500
10 Prizes of 50 „ 600
20 Prizes of 25 „ 600
50 Prizes of 10 „ 500
£HMXX)
Application by letter only, enclosing: stamp, to
“DIAMOND,”
Care of O. Seliieblich,
Watchmaker and Jeweller,
17 Little Collins-street East, Melbourne,
(Near Colonial Hank.)
Prizes paid one day after drawing - , and Horses
paid two days after event.
Result slips posted to each Subscriber, and also
advertised in daily and weekly papers. Shares sent
per return post. Prospectus on application.
Letters containing - cash should be registered.
If country cheques, must bear exchange.
N.B.—“Diamond,” in thanking numerous clients
for their support in previous successful racing
seasons, invites their co-operation in the above.
W. Walker and Sons,
FURNITURE MANUFACTURERS,
Bunhill Row, London.
Sydney Branch:
103 CLARENCE STREET, off Barrack Street.
JEST" Highest Award Sydney and Melbourne Inter-
national Exhibitions.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and Magazines received by
every Mall.
ROYAL ARCADE, 496 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.


If you want SUITS FOR YOUR BOYS that will WEAR WELL, or Good Useful DRAPO
at LOW PRICES, you cannot do better than go to
RILEY BROTHER^
■ THE NOTED CHEAP DRAPERS,
Who purchase all their goods for cash direct from the Manufacture
JUST READ THIS LIST.
Good Colonial Tweed, Is lid
Best Colonial Tweed, 2s (id
Boys’ Trouser Tweed, Is Gd
Horroeks’ Long Cloth, 3%d
American Long Cloth, 2%d
Nightshirt Calico,
Stout Grey Calico, 2%d
Double Width Calico, 5%d
Wide White Flannel, Gkd
Yard White Flannel, lljdd
Good Scarlet Flannel, 5%d
Infants’ Saxony' Flannel, ll><d
Good Cotton Tick, 3%d
Strong Linen Tick, “Q'd
Stripe Bed Ticking, 5%d
Unbleached Sheeting,
White Twill Sheeting, B%d
Honeycomb Quilts, 2s lid
Coloured Bed Quilts, 2s Gd
Good White Blankets, 5s lid
Cotton Bed Fringe, 2%d
Marcella Toilet Covers, 7>pl
Honeycomb Covers,
Bedroom Towels, 2>.<d
Large Bath Towels, Gd
Yard Wide Matting, new fancy patterns, l%d
Stair Oilcloth, i%d
Passage Oilcloth, 5Kd
Table Oileloth, Is 3d
Cream Table Damask, B>.<d
White Linen Damask, Is Gd
Coloured Tableeovers, Is lid
Long Lace Curtains, 3s lid
White Window Holland, GUu
Green Window Holland, B)|d
striped Window Holland, 10;AI
RILEY BROTHERS,
The Cheap Drapers.
lBrotlxers
HAVE THE LARGEST AND CHEAPEST STOCK OF
MEN’S AND BOYS’
In the Colonies.
Boys’ Sultan Suits, ss. lid each
Boys’ School Suits, 4s. lid each
Boys’ Tweed Cairo Suits, 7s. 6d. each
Boys’ Tweed Nelson Suits, 10s. 6d. each
Youths’ Tour-button Sac Suits, 12s. 9d. each
Gent’s Tour-Button Sac Suits, Tweed or Serge, 10s. 6d.
Gent’s Tour-Button Walking Coats, 17s. 6d.
Gent’s Warm Ulster Overcoats, 17s. 6d.
Gent’s Double-breasted Winter Jackets, 15s.
Gent’s Tashionable Overcoats, 15s.
JUST READ THIS LIST.
Girls’ Ulsters, cheap, 2s 6d
Ladies’ Warm Ulsters, 5s 9d
Black Fur Tippets, 3s lid
New Dress Materials, 2%d
Warm Homespun Tweed, 4%d
Black Lustre Alpaca, 5%d
Cashmeres, all colours, Is 3d
Black French Cashmere, Is
Good Wincey Tweeds, 3%d
New Check Dresses, 4%d
Good Black Crape, Is lid
Ivory Handle Umbrellas, 4s Gd
Ladies’ Twill Umbrellas, Is Gd
Ladies’ Alpaca Skirts, 3s lid
Ladies’ Wool Clouds, Is lid
Ladies’ Plush Hats, 2s Gd
Ladies’ White Stays, 2s Gd
Ladies’ Nightdresses, 2s Gd
Ladies’ Drawers, Is 3d
Ladies’ Chemises, Is Gd
Ladies’ Camisoles, Is 9d
Children’s Underclothing
Baby Linen—Everything
Children’s Diaper Pinafores, 9d
Broqk’s Cotton, Is 3d doz.
Coat's Machine, 2s Gd doz.
Evan’s Crochet, Is 9d doz.
Coloured Cottons, 4d doz. I
Hank Crochet, Is lid
Linen Buttons, from s>£d
Milward’s Best Needles"
Machine Needles, Is paper
Morley’s Knitting, Is 9d lb. I
Black Braid, 36 yards, Is
Cotton Tapes, 4d doz. I
Country Pins, Is Gd lb.
Best Ounce Pins, Is 9d lb.
RILEY BROTltfjj
The Cheap Drap^
THIS PRICE LIST. —Persons who may read this advertisement must not think that, because the prices of some ai'h c
ridiculously low, the goods are very common ; they are by no means the commonest goods. We have lower prices nil; but th 6
competition now in the Drapery Trade is so keen, not only in Sydney hut with manufacturers in England, that good articles cd>
he had at very Low Prices. Moreover, we confine our business to goods we have had a large experience in, and can publish
List of Prices in this advertisement for Sterling Good Articles which may well cause many persons to think that they are
to be good.
One trial will prove the fact that we Sell Useful Plain Household Drapery Cheaper tha|
House in Australia.
£2 worth of the above goods sent carriage free by Rail or Steamer, and £5 worth carriage free by Mail
RILEY BROTHERS’
Drapery «£S Bales!
Carriage Free by Mail Coach.
Carriage Free by Steamer.
Carriage Free by Train.
Insured against Damage.
Insured against Loss.
£5 Bales of Drapery.
£5 Bales of Clothing.
£5 Bales for Families.
£5 Bales for Ladies.
£5 Bales for Children.
RILEY BROTHERS,
600 GEORGE STREET,
165 OXFORD STREET,
380 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
M
<■
&
kin
&
V?
A
r
>T2L
l'Q:£L^
RILEY BROW (
Drapery
J
Carriage free, and
paid to a thousand j
Please id . book 0
and t r a bai
i
You wi -to £ out ox ’ .
and good fearißl? I
t UI) l I
Bewar< : adv. tiseJ# 'j I
deliy r their ides 'J 1
way stations w ryl I
right to y n oo r.
RILEY BRO?#
600 GEOR
165
SYDNEY
GE STREET, j s, J
386 GEORO
