

Bulletin
NEW SERIES
PR
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS.
T
iUVf
MQVEERS»
Palace Emporium , Haymarket , only, Sydney.
THE MOST EXTENSIVE AND CHEAPEST HOUSE OF TRADE IN AUSTRALIA.
iiTreiag:e HiT-u.m.'ber of "visitors, SOOO per d.a»3r_
iFtii'■■f
r irr m
T ’
Ida j
HAVE JUST RECEIVED THEIR
O-roa-t Sli.l;p:no.e:n.t of TX7"i3o.toir G-oocLo,
Comprising the largest and most varied and complete STOCK OF WOOLLENS ever
yet impoi’ted to the Southern Hemisphere.
GHENT'S OVERCOATS
WOOLLEN SKIRTS
water:
PROOF COATS AND LEGGINGS
WOOLLEN JACKETS
NEW CARDIG AN JACKET
WOOLLEN VESTS
WINTER CLOUDS
WOOL WRAPS—EVERY PATTERN.
t£T MOURNING GOODS. NEW GRAND VARIETY OP WINCEYS.
10,000 Pieces of the New Superior Velveteens. £lO,OOO Worth of Hosiery.
TlfcLe Clieapest House Issl
PTOTTiO
□S3
PALACE EMPORIUM, HAY MARKET (ONLY). v
GOODS PROMPTLY FORWARDED TO ALL PARTS OF THE COLONIES'


Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favourite remedy. We all suffer more
or less from liver complaint, thereby hindering’
other organs from fultiliing their functions. Set
the liver in order by taking the above remedy, and
heart, lungs, brain, and stomach ■will unite in
graceful chorus.
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The true invigorator. If your vital forces are
depressed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of coming -
disaster, your liver is unequal to its work. To
obviate afl these symptoms there is no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion of
the maladies and ailments attacking' the human
frame are really due to a disordered liver. Set this
organ in order and health" returns as if by magic.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are imitations, ask for ABRAHAM’S
PILLS. See that each box, by whomsoever sold,
bears the inventor’s name and trade mark. The
Laboratory,
434 George Street, Sydney.
MONEY LOANS GRANTED at moderate inte-
rest on Furniture (without possession),
Deeds, Bonds, Certificates, Snares, or other Secu-
rities, payable to suit convenience.
No Deduction made from amount Required,
which will be paid in full within twelve hours of
application.
MONT DE PIETE CENTRAL LOAN OFFICE,
98 Castlreagh Street,
One door South of King Street.
Furniture! Furniture!
Furniture Warehouse
EASIEST TIME PAYMENT SYSTEM IN
SYDNEY.
NO CONNECTION WITH MONEY LENDERS.
FROM £1 TO £5OO WORTH.
ON THE BEST TERMS IN THE CITY.
WE CAN SUIT ALL CLASSES WITH TERMS.
Williamson, McCreery and Co.,
506 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
opposite ConiPolice Court, un stairs.
—— —r
RY DESCRIPTION A I ILsGT CKI.B
Whoeekate J*r Ret af i,
AY BR
»TnFET.
■ J
Y. E. ANGLE’S
(Late of 31 Market-street),
Fashionable Tailoring Establishment
636 GEORGE STREET,
Brickfield Hill.
A large and well-assorted stock of Tweeds and
Coatings, direct from the manufacturers, always
on hand.
All Garments Cut in the most Fashionable Styles.
PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
Note the Address-
-636 George St., Brickfield Hill.
SYDNEY.
ERNEST CARTER,
Wardell Saw and Planing Mills,
RICHMOND RIVER.
' All Timber is thoroughly seasoned before it
leaves these Mills, and is very light for carriage
up-country, and fit for immediate use.
PINE, CEDAR, BEECH, FLOORING, LINING.
Mouldings, Architraves. The Trade only Supplied.
NOKILTOIfS
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON’S
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and no
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit).
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Solti Everywhere, Price Is. 3tl.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
P. R. LARKIN,
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY
ine & Spirit Merchant,
George and Gipps Sts, Haymarket, Sydney
(OPPOSITE ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS’ PALACE EMPORIUM).
Full Stock of the Oldest and Best Brandies and Wines, Irish and Scotch Whiskies, Ales and Porters,
Champagne, Clarets, Colonial Wines, &c.
Gilbey’s Port Wine, 40 years
old, Ts. per bottle; 25 years
old, ss. 6d.
m
u
Gilbey’s Brandy, 25 years old,
6s. 6d.; Gilbey’ s Sherry, 30
years old, 75.; Amontelado
sherries up to 6s.
Gilbey’s Irish and Scotch Whiskies, the very best, 4s. ■
Walker’s Haddow’s, Thistle, Royal and Collie Blend, 4s. ; Glcnlivet, 3s. 6d ; quarts, ss.
Jamieson’s Old Dublin Irish Whisky, in case and wood (imported by P. R. L. himself), ss. in quarts;
4s. in bottles. Roe’s three-star Whisky, 55.; one-star, 45.; Kinahan’s LL, 45.; Dunville’s, 3s. 6d.;
Bourke’s three-star Old Irish, 4s. .. „
The above lines, which are all of unexceptional excellence, were specially arranged for by Mr.
P. 11. Larkin while on his recent tour in Europe.
Ales and Porters of the Best Brands. t _
i n order to suit the general public, P.R.L. continues to make up his Special Assorted Cases for
family use from £3los. to £3, despatched with every facility to all parts of the metropolis, railway
suburbs, and the country districts. Communications by post attended to with the greatest despatch
and fidelity. , , .
Country hotels can do a safe and profitable wholesale business with P. It. Larkin, who now
mports largely of the best descriptions of Wines and Spirits.
Established A.D. 1859.
By Appointment to His
u
u .
mew?“
knaﬁr‘z
Excellency the Governor.
F. E. W, Prcin Merchant Ft Emu
Agin
CORNER OF GEORGE .v GIPPS STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite Anthony Hordern and Sons' now Palace Emporium,
iar Branch Store: DAItLIXCSIIUKST ROiO, near William Street.
Has always on hand Hay, Straw, Corn (whole and cracked), Oats (seed and feed), Harley (Cape and
English), Bran, Pollard, Potatoes, Onions, &e.,• &(}., of best quality, at lowest current rates,
jpyr* Country Orders attended to with Punctuality and Despatch.
ALCOGK & CO.’S
TsJTolos
J. GARDYNE, Agent,
105 IFltt Street, 537-d.rre3r.
Tyme Payment System if required.
BULL & ADRIAN,
Merchant Tailors,
m
3s
Suits
£3
470 George-street, opposite the Markets,
SYDNEY.
Atlas Foundry & Engineer-
ing Company,
HAY STREET SYDNEY.
Engineers, Boilermakers and Shipbuilders,
Iron and Brassfounders, Coppersmiths and
Millwrights.
The above linn are prepared to undertake con-
tracts for the manufacture of Marine and Station-
ary Engines, Boilers, and Girder Work, Quartz-
crushing, Sawmill, Sheep-washing, Mining, Sugar-
mills, and all other descriptions of Machinery, with
latest improvements.
N.p.—Qastinga executed with despatch, and best
prfcfe given for metal.
FOR WELL-MADE AND FASHIONABLE
Gr A R M ENTS,
TRY
B* COCHRAN,
TAILOR & WOOLLEN IMPORTER,
418 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Coffee Palace.
FIT AND WORKMANSHIP GUARANTEED.
ALL GOODS THOROUGHLY SHRUNK.
The Best Cutters in Sydney are employed at
B, C.’s establishment.
A Choice lot of Woollen Goods ot the Newest
Style and Pattern to choose from always in stock.
Come and see for yourselves, as a visit before
giving your orders, will be esteemed a favour.
SHOUT HORN
WHISKY.
T
g" . 5;: v
5 5:53
a: u; tgiii ‘ﬁ ‘
; . -4 n."
V ‘x, f.".5_ «é‘:*:‘:>
:73‘ ~,-
1:: ﬁgs (KR; iv\
1%“. 'k “#me %
v, . ‘ Y'l‘ ’, r?
3 ..';r. N“ \X-ll‘l”; II. 3"
3., {a m Mil} '1
.. x. "95V” x I I.
\.:.. ‘ . . W; ge‘ﬁw"
«5km» : - Li, 5’? ’3'
2‘12 .‘v‘i :““""“<(:'
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LBDTARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON.—The
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading-
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
UNDE It SECTION V., ACT 583.
ART UNION.
PURCHASE of the BUNGAREE JUNCTION
FREEHOLD ESTATE.
10,(300 members by Subscription of £1 each. 120
prizes of from £4OOO to £l. 117 guaranteed cash
if preferred. For prospectus and full information
Address SETH It. PEItSSE, No. 1 Australian and
European Chambers, Box, Post-oUice, Ballarat.
Read Prospectus.
THE AUSTRALIAN
Diamond Drill Company.
CONTRACTS will be undertaken by the above
Company to bore any sized holes, vertical ° r
horizontal, up to
3 INCHES, OR LARGER IF REQUIRED,
to any depth, at a reduction of 25 PER CENT’
BELOW ANY PREVIOUS CHARGE.
The Company, in all cases, will find their oW®
fuel and water for drilling purposes, and will mas'
no charge for loss of diamonds or wear and tearg
plant, and will also provide workmen engineers,
SSi*" The new duplex barrel, introduced into P.
colony by Mr. J. Coghlan, will be used free ®
charge to persons searching for minerals.
Mr. Coglan has every confidence, from his prBg
tical knowledge of the Diamond Drill, that he
be able to give general satisfaction, as well as qu#
despatch to all orders addressed to the
Temporary Offices, 311 George-street.
JOHN COGHLAN,
General Manager, pro. tcni.
Singer’s Sewing ltfflachineS<
TURNER & CO.
Are the Recognised Agents of the
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING C&
TIME PAYMENTS:
2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per we#
And no interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
tST BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE “ SINGER,”
TURNER & COMPANY,
353 George-street.
THE ONLY “SINGER.”
Turner and Company,
OPPOSITE GENERAL POST OFFICE
The Mercantile Bank of Sydnef
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED by ACT OF PARLIA MENT,
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £125,000
Directors:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Win. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
Auditors:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq.
Manager :
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches :
Havmarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambone,
Gosford, and Nyngan.
London Bankers:
Tim National Provincial Bank of England
London Office: 158 Leaden hall-street
Director: Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent : G. H. Alexander, Esq.
■ .
This bank tra
eialAgent
Bills disi
Bills nej
and othei
acts all usual Banking and Fkjx
less on the most favourable tci
I daily. . .J
1 and advances made against n u
e shipped to England for sale
J. MASSEY & SOtf
10 Park Street,
-7 _, “—— " -
, mug-‘1 -
I1,"\‘.,:3‘1777Ci'7;" :
1 t V 'L ‘ '
7!” 3, ﬂu: , ‘ I
.‘ -L‘:\~":..w*-;:~‘ n
‘ . 2‘ )\ mtgffﬁ'iﬂk‘ > “:f‘
l . ‘1” I. '
A ‘ ”‘1‘. "W 27* ‘
w-m , ' ‘ :22?
IMPORTER
of
PIANOS,
toy every
-i .ojl’
of renown, t*
£25 and I,P
wards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY-
Pianos! Pianos! Piano^
FREE TRADE and NO MONOPOLY-
Live and Let Live, these are Our Mottoes-
It is a well-known fact that the
Colossal Fortunes have been established up£r f.
Profits arising from the SALE OF PIANOS ifijj#
City during the past Twenty Years by
having little or no knowledge of the Constru
and Details of the Pianoforte. While
Public the benefit'of our Mr. Young’s 25
personal practical experience (5 years R’gt'
Broadwood and Sons, London, mid 20 in
we will, at the same time, be satisfied with r j«
percentage on the Co-operative Principle, s?
the Profits with our Customers. Wo will sen j,,
25 per cent, less than the same class of InstivA
can be Purchased at any Music Shop in SUjjrc
and we will offer nothing for Sale we.
guarantee. American Organs at proportion
low prices. Also a Large Stock <jf Rohn? )C
brated Austrian Furniture, a single artw
which wc are selling at Wholesale Prices. ,
. tf.
Come and See Our LITTLE BEAUTIES i»
nut and Full Iron Frame, at £25 cash, El e "|
£lO more, or under a Liberal Time Paym ol : ¥
tern.
George E. Young and
285 PITT STREET*
South of Royal Arcade.
B. BRAUN,
Watchmaker, Jeweller, & Opt l^
37 6 GEORGE STR E ®
Near the Post Office. j
Jewellery altered or made to order at i' eilS
rates.
_____ ffi c)
Watches repaired on the premises by most e
Workmen—work guaranteed-
A LARGE ASSORTMENT of LATEST
TIES in JEWELLERY
Agent for Ratberain’s and


XjrUST S BOOT EMPORIUM, 401 George St.,
near King-street.
Get from OKt 0 Kte S V,d renCh ° alf ° r KW ’ superior quality,
Superior Ladies’ Extra High Glace Kid Button
Ta,n superior quality, from 10s. 6d.
panics Evening Shoes, a great variety, from 4s. 6d.
EURE
KA
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
The paragon op perfection.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco off the Age !
destined to eclipse and supercede
, r all other brands.
>o only Tobacco combining Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Price.
“fr R Each PLUG is STAMPED with the word
Smokers see that, von obtain it.
Take
' no other.
manufactured by
Saywell’s tghccs Co.,Lun.
AT THE EAGLE AVORKS,
Kent and clarence streets,
ud can be obtained wholesale at their AVarehouse,
„ Park-street, Sydney.
° everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as its merits become known.
r P[ ,. , , EUREKA TOBACCO,
ta ? r ®d according to Act of Parliament, to pro-
tect the public against spurious and worthless
imitations.
sole agent for blackmer’S patent
ELECTRIC SIGNS.
J. W. WILLOUGHBY,
GENERAL ELECTRICIAN,
95 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AT LONDON,
manufacturer, importer & fitter
Bells, Batteries, Indicators, Insulated
Sr,,!,. Improved Patent Fire and Burglar Alarms,
ail Tubes, Lightning Conductors, Medical
trio Coils, Electro-Magnetic Machines, Elec-
Ll<w • 8 Lighting, Gilding and Plating Material,
ijjU'tric Light Apparatus on the latest and most
moved principles now in use in London,Paris, &c.
> Liberal Discount to the Trade,
udents of every description of Electrical Appa-
ratus on the most favourable terms.
Estimates submitted Free of Cost.
wonder op the age
t HE AUTOPHONE!
THE AUTOPHONE ! !
'HE AUTOPHONE! THE AUTOPHONE!
rpi
The Cheapest, Best, and Simplest Musical
Mechanism ever offered.
* or the First Time Imported to Australia.
AIRS cau be played by the youngest
child.
All the Latest Song's.
All the Latest Dance Music.
Operatic Selections. Sacred Music.
Together, 500 airs can be played on
THIS WONDERFUL INSTRUMENT,
With Additional Pieces by eacli Mail.
Write for Particulars at once to
*6 OXFORD STREET.
O'Utral
Lending Library Co.,
46 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY.
Tobacconist,
472 GEOIIGE STREET,
nitorm his customers and the public in
general, that he lias
removed
market street to george street,
Opposite the Markets.
sfi, * u r !,'Mdlß, 608 George-street, Bedding Mimu-
A rnV. r ? r ’ Importer of Brass and lx-on Bed-
s w^ oB,ll au d Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair,
*** OoLton Flock. Established 1860.
p
ise
VIRTZTTIS GLORIA MERCES.
GOM.CLIFF COAL.
This NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY supplies the CHEAPEST, CLEANEST, and
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony,
19s. per Ton net, delivered within city bounds.
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and bars’kept well free from ash, makes a stronger,
more lasting, and cleaner lire that any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky flare and soot of
Newcastle coal, nor does it splinter and fly off like the Western, but it affords that domestic desideratum
of some kinds of English coal of heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a
charcoal or breeze fire, while it imparts to the steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwhole-
some fumes given off by a breeze or gas fire.
' A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
Office: A. B. BLACK, 247 George Street.
jgr DEPOT : WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.’S
Bon Accord Brass, Copper, Lead & Iron Works,
8 and 9 MACQUARIE PLACE,
PLUMBERS AND GAS FITTERS, ART METAL WORKERS, &C. MANUFACTURERS AND
IMPORTERS OF CHANDELIERS, BRASS WINDOW SASH BARS, DIVING GEAR, &c.
<©44.
PUMPS, HELMETS,
DRESSES, HOSE,
SPRINGS, GUERNSEYS,
STOCKINGS, ROOTS
(with lead soles),
REA AIRING CLOTH,
SOLUTION, and all
ACCESSORIES, &c.
THE MAESHALL
WINDOW FASTENEK,
THE CHEAPEST
and
MOST INEXPENSIVE
FASTENEK MADE.
Prevents all rattling-, and
fastens the window at
any height.
No weights, pulleys, cords, &c.,
required.
Ţ
Celebrated CHAMPION HOLLER SKATES, and every other make, always on hand. Wheels, Soles’
Bodies, and all Accessories. Manufacturers of the PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
Ranges Fitted with Hot and Cold Water, Circulating Apparatus and Boilers.
MEDALLISTS AND SPECIAL PRIZE HOLDERS. ESTABLISHED 1855.
H. P. GREGORY.
11. SHAW SMITH.
nr
S. W. GREGORY.
«li>
Engineers & Machinery Merchants
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR
Fay & Co.’s Woodworking Machinery Korting’s Injectors
Tanite Co.’s Emery Wheels and Machines Eclipse Windmills
Blake’s Brass-lined Special Steam Pumps Sturtevant’s Fans.
A LARGE STOCK OF THE ABOVE ALWAYS IN OUR STORES,
as well as all
SAW MILL, PLANING MILL, AND MINING REQUISITES,
IT PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Hydropathic Bathing Establishment,
Corner of College & Oxford Sts., Hyde Park.
G-. 2v/£a,c]s:e:n-!z;Ie Co.,
(Late with BATT, RODD, and PURVES)
AUCTIONEERS, BROKERS, FINANCIERS, GENERAL AGENTS, VALUATORS, &c.,
MINERVA CHAMBERS,
126 PITT STREET.
■a:
IS WHAT YOU WANT, BUT SELDOM GET.
yw- THEN ASK YOUR GROCER OR STOREKEEPER FOR
A. G. Churchwoods Crown Brand
BLENDED FROM THE FINEST MOCHA, JAMAICA, and CEYLON BERRIES.
kIMIN
Harvest
mzs
MACHIN
erv
CHAMPION
ENGINES
AND
r\
THRESH!!
W
MILLS
B tass®®"'
IS:;--
FLEMING’S Carriage and Machinery Repository
22 and 23 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
GraaetiST - Hotel
CORNER CASTLEREAGH & BATHURST
STREETS, SYDNEY.
JAMES SHARP,
Late of the Collonnade Hotel, corner of King and
Castlereagh Streets, desires to inform his friends
and the public generally, that he has removed to
the above Hotel, which has been lately known as
the “ Hyde Park Hotel,” and which he has tho-
roughly renovated. J. S. trusts that, by his usual
strict attention to business, combined with the best
brands of Wines, Spirits, &c., to merit a fair share
of patronage. J. S. desires to state that he still
draws the famous
“SILVER CUP BEER.”
A. A. DEBNEY & CO.,
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
PORTMANTEAUX, BAGS,
TRUNKS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
A. A. DEBNEY & CO.,
Have just opened a -
1ST hosiery,
COLLARS,
FOR Gi
Cut a tt nr the Latest
rtei.oed
, by an expe-
rie: i e-i Condon
ter
N.B.—Country Orders receive Special Attention.
A. A. DEBNEY & CO.,
Successors to Hobson and Whiting,
13 HUNTER STREET.
The Apollo Company, Lim.,
PYRMONT, SYDNEY.
Directors :
JOHN KEEP, ESQ. | R. T. REMINGTON, ESQ.
GEORGE TURNER-MANAGER.
Office—348 George Street, Sydney.
Manufacturers of
The Celebrated APOLLO STEARINE CANDLES,
OLEIN, HOUSEHOLD & FANCY SOAPS,
GLYCERINE (Crude and Refined.)
Prize Medals :
PARIS,
PHILADELPHIA,
SYDNEY,
and
MELBOURNE.
PRIZE AWARDED MELBOURNE
EXHIBITION, 1882.
THE AUSTRALIAN SCHOLASTIC TRADING
COMPANY, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of
School, College & Church Furniture
and Educational Appliances of every description.
R. C. TROUGHTON & CO.,
PROPRIETORS.
Contracts taken, and estimates given for the fit-
ting up of Scools, Colleges, Churches, Lecture
Halls, Museums, &c., to any extent and to any
design. Sole Proprietors, Inventors, and Manufac-
turers of Troughton’s Reversible Desks, &c. (Regis-
tered), and General Contractors.
Steam Works—DICK STREET, off ABERCROM-
BIE STREET.
Lithographs of Designs and Catalogue forwarded
on application.
Upwards of 200 schools already furnished by us.
tMtists.
33 COLLEGE STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY-
v - ij4fiW *•», j 'll
.. -ARTIFICAL TEETH on the mostapproved Eng-
ish Principles, Fitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastica-
tion, Natural Appearance, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping, Scaling, and Extractions skilfully
performed.


THE
G-reat 1
CENTRE
OF THE
,z'l‘.‘ ; , ' "-_ ..' ‘ .-..---~_
«’ .. : "1‘. _ -_.'." '.
V I. 9-.“ 4‘ . "mm.”
' ‘1, 5.. ‘
. .J—.
u ,- A .
I . ‘_ ,'\‘ .
v " \=:"v j ‘
' u - .;
~ f 16w ‘;
,,_,“ aha. : ‘
‘ s v . ‘ ~ , ::.:-:“=‘ :
,, 1M. - , . . ;."'.-,- . 3.13253” ’ ,5
,-, . €< . _ .v_ ,_ n»... x . 1.". ”‘7“. '
x «2' .- .. , ":,.\ . .‘
~ w-“v‘ ‘3- ) r . ‘7. ’Y" A18" ‘\. .: - ~
‘ “5‘27? ‘ " '~ ' “*W‘v . N , {\‘nuL‘—,.)
‘ M .143 ‘31:}? ‘4'. _ .. \ .. .‘ ‘ M , 9‘. -.‘ ‘ A. ‘._ j'ﬁif‘ 5
L ..V .:_ .. . .. n _ .v. ‘ .-m .u ‘ .
' ‘ '--'1‘x‘ -‘-- J» I ~ ‘ -, wrap‘w‘ : - .
' ‘ . ‘ 2v ' , ‘ .x . - ._
. “' ‘ {iii-‘31:;:E.:;,1:fA-'_;‘r > . u" ._ 'x.‘.';-,":;~"::' .5 1 w
' ’ 3" I~:V"“-" 4.; 1'17 ' , 3-; » -.. 3 .4 -
“ w ‘,::v...,1-;'.> V -~ .. \ _‘ K V ‘.
‘ u .',.-:'. .-‘.~.-'~o:-;T-' “-2- . 4:) ,V 1 . *f.
7 '_"‘ \kj‘» RA" any _ 6’ A ., ;I:v .= - _
a '_ .ggéLg’gnp ~. . .- . . ‘ ..
J V - : wax“ $.01 931-1 - _. ‘ ‘,~
u‘..!' V‘- -r-‘_::;'-‘ll'§a‘i’ug‘_ ‘ \ X49!” ‘ ‘ ,.—..- ”3' _.',‘J-_ , » : -_
7 .3.,1 “3“,,“ .,. ”7,, ‘ .._. ‘ _
L: . . , '_.\\,‘y‘."f{}u<‘t‘ .a ‘ mm...» w, .._. mu \ K ‘ .
-' 1? Jun: 19-33»? "- .‘ ‘tnan _.- .
r. ,«s,s..;:i\,a,.1r§ ‘ m4“ .~. I w .: \ ‘
‘I:.°"-‘~m k" s u ' 2.64.: .5: .'..1 - .
c.23- . ~H1§$§ ‘ Cw"? y_:}>~.hk\u '5 , . -
".‘ "'~;:‘«'.-“~"¢‘u§:ht‘iié;.‘n‘ 4c“ ,, Man‘- .- ‘ . -
" -': MEL» v. "1 ~51 »;:... _..,,..- . .. .
. ’VMWW‘ Mr," 6'3 If“ -. . ’5‘
r ':.:\7.I,'.§‘}_."{i‘x,w _.‘.I\~_ﬁ:~‘q 135;"‘3'33. '7. , 5:.
-'~' '0 22‘ -"’ ‘9.“ . _, a. §« ,- ‘ _,.--»"
"-245“. Z'X~k’{-“1’-33‘Ti-‘~‘ "I: "7:5. .- 3! , ~ ..w“.
:1.‘~,;-:::‘.1231y§.3‘:.3g%£ “1;. ., i' [3,“; ‘ c-"""
"'v --..4-» ..r - .- . - ‘ H ,1- y: “A.
.g 15.13“ tigélygﬂ"; $4“er) ' z _, , “1“ $1,, .15“
:«1‘nﬁmkzéw - x- ray q?“ ,; - H 1 . V ,,,.
”1' 7‘. 12-. . '_. ‘.'_\.._‘-:..;~g_ﬁ _ 3. Jr 1.: 7‘7 ; -- by? 3».
my.“ -‘;:<.: "v ‘ “‘9?!“ 3r . - - _‘ . ‘\ ‘ .x-
. , "1 “ \-."‘2~»Q}~'ﬁ «..‘L‘. L.) 1. ‘ .. r . n 3 W . W, '
A “at, 1» 1:1." Turk *v-AS" Ma- . , .q‘ , . U -. ‘ ,1. ‘
3‘v“‘j<‘é\w}a‘, 2g . ‘ ‘ h" A- pr -
‘ 2'1-1‘ , "-’xl‘iTI-‘L’ZL-‘Z's'iil"?Lt‘Tﬂ-ib'étig'f. ' " ,‘,.-' ' ‘, ‘._-:{'~-c,:‘),. I:
‘ a: ; “7;.33195-2 “Z ‘i::2:;-;,\:.,.:§¢I§‘ \‘~ _‘ 1-; '05...- ” . 41,-: /
"“133 4'4"» ':‘"73“7‘gﬁ‘3ﬁ‘4‘1’I-3.74} (:35374‘; :21." ‘
. , -. : :-,'. wan,” , ;-' ..c: : ‘ . '
‘ ' ' ‘ E-'s.-;;jf.\~;.1; j ":a 3 95‘;- ﬁ/ «,-
‘ _ “ .f—Ii’~..‘ 331.: ' 1,5 _ r“. ‘4‘. . . ’ E“. ‘ ' . \
.3. .;.~.. ..qurw“. , : _.. . .m- _ 3,. - J. l w
‘ \.' ' \ I. < ‘i - ‘ ' ‘ - ' V I M'ﬂ. ,
x‘x‘ ".._...” . ' ".u-Wf . 7 ,
_ “"--..__,..."..gool' '25., ‘.m..,.nuuun-”""'f:' :7 'A
' Ira
3=3etSLll
Boot Trade
OF SYDNEY.
JOHN HUNTE
RENOWNE
The wants of the whole community are here supplied in a manner not hitherto attempted in this colony. Fashion and Practical
Value, combined with the Lowest Prices ranging in the Australian Colonies.
EVERYBODY IS INVITED TO TEST THE TRUTH OF THIS STATEMENT.
The Newest Styles and the Best Makes, combined with a Saving of 7s. 6d. in the £.
JOHN HUNTER’S CITY BOOT PALACE is supplied direct from the London and Parisian Houses, and an enormous business is
likewise done in the best description of Colonial Goods. Eemember, that at Hunter’s City Boot Palace first commenced the Great
Fall in the Price of Boots and Shoes,[resulting in a larger business being done at the City Boot Palace than at ony other house in
Australia.
■ »
Note this Great Fact! Ts. 6d. in the £ Saved at Hunter’s City Boot Palace.
Large Fresh Supplies of Women’s and Children’s Boots at a Great Reduction in Price.
Ladies’ Fashionable Walking Boots, Ball-room Boots, &c., in a style not previously seen in Sydney.
Splendid Line of Gentlemen’s English Sewn Boots, at London Prices.
Ladies ordermgArom any part of the colony will meet with immediate attention. A saving of about 10s. in the £ will thus be effected.
£tfmr "l
AM
THE
BRINSMEAD
Pianos
w ‘ I m PS 5r;‘t~~.".‘1‘_:'..-1’~'~'-5:‘--"*"""‘ ‘ .{LF‘w l'kv‘ J “
; a Art-nr-VHWHVE“r"-.v"r,’,»’7lo' , w WNW ~ V ‘
l ‘|E“'xm{m%'1 ii”; *5
, ,, 7 p 7 V t 7 V 7 “4““ M
\' h::‘_€z: I 5' ‘
771“? 31;“ r T. iii}: “l
“A .‘ I 2-, ,‘ J. v v “ 19 ‘ ‘r
; " "WWI L". ~~ " ‘ . ‘ i
ll f.;I?".I’..I!~«egﬂwlwx..‘.‘.‘~WI«1§WI WM” “ “"‘Ila‘ljw -‘ ﬂ
‘ ‘1 ‘ 1.‘ c/IPIIZE'I'EW I | 11mm '1 m I ‘
t :t .2: "333}:9‘3‘9‘WWKemﬂmMn “ y’ “1““, \ ~
2 NW W43armowzvuﬁ‘aals19!?:x§.i«$f::msp:;m,z1xiv:w”1| 1 W "1 ‘
1‘ ”9‘3WT"‘“‘1’“WWMWFW‘TT ~~vv42vkn£§1 ‘ M J v‘ ,1:
2,,” 3W5""2‘571‘mi4m3ﬁmﬂmgﬁmﬂz-NWWWIWWWWi ‘31 V ﬁll 1' J 2"
$4)“ ,,: NM '73: w M "w ‘v ‘ rm 37 " “A J
r, by, ‘ r V, 7mumaWWup<r,11:wltuWW{me mg ,5
‘\ , -** A‘
< 1"
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
GRAND CROSS OF THE LEGION OF HONOUR, PARIS.
SPECIAL MDMA. ABO7E ALL COMPETITORS, AT TEE
STESET ITEEIAIIAL EMIT!
Amongst other Brinsmead Improve-
ments, the following will always stand
prominent in the history of the piano-
forte :
The Brinsmead Patent Sostenente
Sounding Board.
The Brinsmeod Patent Consolidated
Metal Prame.
The Brinsmead Patent Check-repeat-
ing Action.
The Brinsmead Patent Tone Compen-
sator and Renovator.
SOLE AGENTS:
IBO’S'ILE <35 CO.,
BOND STBEET, SYDNEY.
•v-
-:
Brinsmead Pianos.
A Magnificent Selection of these Pianos now
open for inspection, at the Sole Agents,
HOYLE & CO., Bond St., Sydney".
Brinsmead’s Superb Pianos
Cash or Time Payments,
EOTLE CO-,
KT BOND STREET.


THE
BULLETIN
Vol. I.—No. I.—New Series.
SATURDAY, MAY 19, 1883.
Price—Gd.“
Blasphemy, or—What?
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, MAY 19, 1883.
Political Eoonomy has been styled “ The
Dismal Science,” and every man who has
studied the science must feel the accuracy of
the epithet. Despite the fact that exami-
nation of its problems has engaged the most
lucid intellects of the past century, the
subject remains shrouded in mists of gloomy
uncertainties. While every lateral crevice
and issue has been examined with critical
acouraoy, it is perceived that no man has
plumbed the bottom of the abyss. The in-
vestigator, after toilfully penetrating the
mazes, under the direction of the most cele-
brated guides, emerges with a consciousness
that the knowledge he has acquired lacks
coherence and continuity, and has more
excited his imagination than satisfied his
curiosity. The dismal conviction which
weighs upon the student of Political Economy
after he has learnt all that has been demon-
strated, is that the sum of the information
he has acquired is the liarrowing assurance
that, no matter how the factors in the
problem be arranged or adjusted, the result
remains that misery and want—the sharpest
misery and the extremest want—are the inevi-
table lot of a large proportion of every
generation of mankind. This conclusion is
at least latent in every system yet pro-
pounded. The masters of the science have
investigated with powerful and searching
sorutiny every conceivable method by means
of which the condition of mankind can
be or might be ameliorated. Production,
Distribution, Exchange, Wealth, Credit,
Rents, Profits, and Wages, have each been
considered in their mutual relations. The in-
fluence of a growth of intelligence has been
considered, and the functions of Government
examined. To sill these investigations there
have been brought a magnificent candour,
a bright lucidity, and an uncompromising
oourage in following the most disheartening
inferences to their absolute conclusions.
And when all has'been done, the inquirer
remains confronted by the appalling, but
apparently unavertable deduction, that the
case of mankind is hopeless. When all minor
issues have been followed to the end, when
every allowance has been made for the
happiest and wisest conceivable adjustment
of economical and social problems—when
even the imaginary Republic of Plato, the
New Atlantis, and the Utopia of More, are
admitted as practically possible, still the
grim figure of sordid wretchedness looms
over the prospect. The richer the harvest,
the more the mouths; and always more
mouths than mouthfuls. This is the axiom
which has made Political Economy essentially
an impotent science, and has invested it with
its dismal reputation.
* * *
The richer the harvest, the more the
mouths; and always more mouths than
mouthfuls. Tacitly assumed by Adam
Smith, this axiom was first formally stated
by the Rev. Mr. Malthus, a clergyman of
the Church of England, and having since
been adopted in its essentials by every con-
siderable Economist and Philosopher, as Ri-
cardo, Mill, and Buckle, it has entered into
the very habits of thought of educated
mankind. In its original extravagance,
the theory of Malthus has been vaunted as
“conclusive as a problem of Euclid,” and
started from an apparently unanswerable
demonstration that, while population tends
to increase in a geometric ratio, subsistence
increases only in an arithmetical ratio. In
other words, while population increases by
multiplication, means of subsistence simulta-
neously increase only by addition. Thus,
while population unchecked by unfavourable
conditions would double its numbers every 52
.years, the means of subsistence would only
increase by a single advance during the same
period. Reduced to figures, Malthus puts
the case that while the human race would
increase as the numbers 1,2, 4,8, 16, 32, 64,
128, 256, substance would only increase at the
rate of 1,2, 3,4, 5,6, 7,8, 91 This fantastic
exactitude is repudiated by later writers,
who, however, adopt the general conclusions.
Thus J. S. Mill refers to it as “ an unlucky
attempt to give precision to things which do
not admit of it, which every person capable
of reasoning must see is wholly superfluous
to the argument.” The argument, with-
out the unlucky precision, is adopted by
Mill, and dominates all his reasoning. Now
this argument is the element which makes
Political Economy dismal, and projects a
gloomy shadow over every prospect of
ameliorating the condition of suffering
humanity.
* * *
The fundamental theory, as accepted by
the schoolmen, and the deductions to which
SIR DANIEL COOPER, BART.
they have lent the weight of their assent,
will require a few sentences. The theory is
that “ there is a natural tendency and
constant effort in population to increase
beyond the means of subsistence.” The
deductions are, once that premise is adopted,
inevitable. The increase of population
must be prevented or restrainc 1, and must
heretofore have constantly been prevented
or restrained, by some opposing influence.
Otherwise the human race would have dis-
appeared from the face of the earth. All must
have starved, unless some had perished or
never been born. The real and peremptory
check to over-population is clearly, there-
fore, starvation. But, as man is gifted with
foresight, and variously endowed with
strength and intelligence, a constant effort
to provide against extinction has been going
on, and a universal scramble for such sub-
sistence as exists. The weakest have been
shouldered away from the loaf and pitcher,
and have perished. That is the case, put in
a simple form. Elaborated, it becomes more
complex. The hungry savage kills his neigh-
bour and eata him. Tribes, as their indi-
viduals increase and their native tract yields
insufficient nourishment, throw off their
superfluous numbers as predatory bands, or
migrate bodily into the country of other
tribes and fight for its possession. Through
the varying complexities of increasing civili-
zation the struggle continues, with modifica-
tions of form. The strong —no matter
whether their strength be physical or de-
rived from artificial advantages—trample
the weak, and nations deplete their brim-
ming populations by wars. There are a
thousand weapons more subtle than the club
of the savage, but all equally fatal. In the
more brutal times, the stronger might have
smothered the weaker in a ditch. Amid a
delicate refinement, the stronger merely
crowds the weaker into the fetid atmosphere
of a slum. The process is physiologically
identical. There is rapid asphyxiation in the
one case; gradual asphyxiation in the other.
The result is the same: the weaker die off,
and the stronger snatch the share which,
insufficient for both, is ample for one.
The horror'of j the situation'lies in'its'in-
evitableness. The strong must push the
weak out of existence, or both will perish
together. The natural increase of popula-
tion must be kept down by starvation,
misery, overcrowding, or prudential refusals
to mate, or by slaughter, unles's the whole
race is to wait hand in hand, brotherly
fashion, for extinction. There is no escape
from the dilemma. Charity faints at the
threshold—her tenderness aggravating the
evils she fain would relieve. Progress in
productive processes, invention of machinery
which increase man’s natural powers in pro-
duction of subsistence, are mere tittles when
contrasted with that terrific mathematical
progression which population, if unchecked,
develops. No matter how great the increase
in subsistence, the increase in competitors
for it must ever overrun it. There may be
room for more men and women as produc-
tion is stimulated and: exchange facilitated
by improved methods, but as surely as death
comes to all, so surely must there be a crowd
of famishing hands clutohing at every
mouthful which the fortunate few convey
to their mouths. Illustrating the general
case by a particular example. Were the
wealthiest man in England to distribute a
million sterling among a thousand strug-
gling persons, £lOOO to eaoh, in fifty years
the sum of human wretchedness and anxie-
ties would not have abated one whit. Those
persons, who while penniless had not dreamed
of marriage, would, on finding themselves in
comparative ease, marry. Children would
thus be called into existence, who otherwise
would never have been born. And these,
again, would wed and beget more children,
till the wealth distributed had been so sub-
divided or dissipated that in lieu of the
original thousand, society was burdened
with ten thousand persons feebly staggering
on the verge of starvation. Distribution of
wealth is therefore futile as a remedy for
human misery; and instead of being, as
modern philosophers have dreamed, and
masses have felt, a measure of relief, would
but intensify the evil by enlarging its scope.
Charity, instead of being a merciful duty, is
a cruel offence against inexorable laws; and
he is perhaps the truest benefactor who
knocks a pauper on the head, or huddles the
poor into pestilential alleys, where their
infants shall wither and die without tasting
the full misery of life. This will appear a
frightful and monstrous series of deductions,
even though the reasoning present no flaw.
It is our own deduction, truly, but not ours
only. By a longer road, and after fuller ex-
Eosition of the steps on the way, John'
tuart Mill arrived at the same conclu-
sion. He expressly, and in these very words
attributes the want and suffering which
exist in the world as society is now consti-
tuted, to “the niggardliness of Nature; not
to the injustice of man.”
* * *
We reject our own conclusions. We deny
the inference of Mill. Our deductions am
monstrosities. The deduction of Mint, is
atrocious blasphemy. ‘‘ The niggardliness o f
Nature” is a mere euphuism for “the nig-
f ardliness of God.” If we are called upon
o choose between believing that want and
suffering, perpetual and recurrent, are per-
emptorily attributable either to the Injustice
of Man or the Niggardliness of The Al-
mighty, reverence, faith, conviction, nay
reason in spite of reason—compel our choice;
and we choose the unreason in preference to
the blasphemy. It is a blasphemy which,
alas, is familiar as household words. It enters
into the current philosophy of our pro-
fessedly GoD-loving people. It is essential
to our axioms of “law and order.” It re-
sounds from a thousand pulpits, whence men
are told that poverty is “ ordained.” A
wicked and perverse generation make blas-
phemy a part of their very religion, and
stamp it heresy to affirm that the Injustice
of Man, not “ the Niggardliness of Nature,”
is responsible for the bitter social inequali -
ties. But we have to confess that, although
we reject and spurn the blasphemy, our ov/n
conclusions are in accord with it. How
extricate ourselves from such a dilemma '!
There are two chances. Our chain of reason-
ing or our premises must be wrong, one or
the other. The chain of reasoning is our
own. The premises were not ours but.
Malthus’. We naturally suspect Mai. thus,
and would fain challenge his propositions.
But who dare assail a philosophy which has
defied the attacks of Godwin ana Benthav,
has received the indorsement of rich an l
poor alike, which harmonizes with the
separate system of the giant Darwin, and
has been stamped by the seal of Mine,
Ricardo, Buckle, and a host of other
intellectual Samsons—men candid, disinter-
ested, trained in philosophical analysis.
* * *
We are all too weak and puny for such an
enterprize. In truth, we had never ventured
so far, were it not that a tremendous form
is already battering at the Malthusian
Citadel. Henry George, but yesterday a
journeyman artizan in California, has taken
Malthus by his well-meaning, religious
honest, but mischievous and blasphemous
throat, and has shaken the life out of his
theory. In “ Progress and Poverty”—a work
which contains a revelation, and, although
yet scarcely known outside America, and
scholarly circles in Europe, seems destined
to shake the world—the Malthusian theory
is frankly grappled, and seemingly smitten
hip and thigh. More than this we will not
venture just now to say. But we throw on t
this hint for reflection. If Malthus and
Mill, and all that school, be wrong, and
blasphemy not truth, and if Henry George
be right, and it be not “the niggardliness of
Nature” which is responsible for want
and suffering, the alternative is that “the
injustice of man” is responsible. What are
you going to do about it ?


PLAIN ENGLISH
Pistols and Toffee.
GAMbetta shot by his gyurl, and GORTSCHAKOFF,
that venerable David of 80, poisoned by his
A bishag. Nice old man, Gortschakoff must
have been, to be sure! It’s a topsy-turvoy world.
Gam nEtta’s killer lais not even been arrested. As
for Gortschakoff’s Brinvilliers, of course
one doesn't know. They manage these affairs in
so very expeditious and British-Government-in-
It eland sort of fiishion in Russia, that Mrs. Morga-
natic Gortschakoff may be in Heaven, or
Siberia, by now. Of course, tenderness for the
late venerable Prince required that there should
be no CMclandrf. But when a young person in
humble life takes the liberty of stabbing her
alleged Gortsohakoff-Gambetta, why, every-
body agrees that “ the —er —lor must take its
course.” Supposo a girl to tlx her affections on,
and her knife in, a young man, instead of angling
for a lecherous old bald-nate because ho was
powerful and distinguished, and then shooting
liim on discovering that Gortschy was, under-
neath the tinsel, a mean, treacherous, little sneak,
with the talents of a police-court attorney and
the principles of a pickpocket, and was stingy
with his inonov, and objected to the visits of her
<■ atsiii of the I’innish Guard. Conceive that a girl
didn't sell herself, but fell in love, poor wretch,
with an infernal sweep, as girls arc apt to do, and
thinking him an angel of manliness—a girl in love
always fancies her dame an angel, and doesn’t
know that the nimbus which to her eyes surrounds
him is not objective but subjective—imagined her
honour safe in such celestial keeping ; and when she
found that she had given away her immortal soul
to a devil, under the hallucination that she was
trusting it to an angel of light, she went and
killed the demon. Assuredly it would be better
that fiends be exorcised by regular legal process.
But who can wonder at such an action on the part
of any girl who knew that her devil had ruined her,
past redemption, in this world, and that no law
would adequately punish her destroyer ? Some-
times it’s the man who takes the girl for an angel,
and discovers that he has fallen into the arms of a
she-devil, And when this does happen, his case is
almost worse, because he is never believed, and he
is charged with infamy for merely urging the plea
that the girl, and not he, was in fault. But it
doesn’tJhappen often. Nature makes the male the
pursuer, the female the pursued. Parents and
guardians are too pruriently delicate. They bring
up girls to be simplotons, and then savagely fail
upon them, should they, on being by chance or
necessity left to look after themselves in Vanity
Pair, barter their treasure for a gross of green
spectacles. Let girls understand what’s what. Let
them know that very charming fellows, very good
fellows, very high-principled fellows, very
grave and worthy fellows, very reverend
and conscientious fellows, fellows old enough to be
their fathers, fellows old enough to be their grand-
fathers, are sometimes changed into unscrupulous
swindlers by the mere magic of a maiden’s smile
and glance. * Pretty girls, good girls, innocent girls,
should know that they have the curse of mal-occh ki,
of the evil-eye, even when it beams brightest and
purest, for some men—and these not a few. Dear
girls, you can’t be too careful. It isn’t the pleasant-,
est fellow vou meet in Vanity Pair who is the
honestest or the most resolutely unyielding in
principle. Your honest man is a little apt to be
indifferent about favorably impressing people. And
your man of rigid principles is apt to be somewhat
stilted and unattractive. Do you believe that,
when MoseS Primrose was persuaded to buy that
gross of green spectacles, it was a beetle-browed
ru Ilian of course manners and repellaut exterior
who ’’ strung him on” ? Of course you understand
it was a charming fellow, of most insinuating
address, and with a mellifluous mouth brimming
over with reflections of a chaste morality. Just so
with dear Tom. The more he is charming, the
more you had best defend yourself. You never
know, by a man’s position, antecedents, or reputa-
tion, when the dormant volcano, which most men
have in their bosoms, and which may for half a
life-time smoulder, like the fires of Hecla under an
exterior of ice, may break out.
»
Civil Servants and Overtime.
Different classes of people will variously regard
the intimation of the Premier, endorsed by the
Treasurer, that “overtime” in the Civil Service is
to be discouraged. Not, of course, that Messrs.
Stuart and Dibus object to overtime in the sense
of zealous officers burning the midnight oil to
complete urgent work. Nobody objects to that,
and indeed the fact that an officer had habitually
worked overtime might very fairly be advanced
as a claim for promotion. What is objected to is
over payment. No good business man—Messrs.
Stuart and Dibbs will bear us out—works in
reality upon hard and fast rules. Yet here we
have two very good business men establishing for
the Civil Service such a median law. This is only
apparently anomalous. No good business man
would run such an institution as the Civil Service.
That establishment stands apart, unlike any other
where work has to be done. A business man may
stand the presence in his employment of one or
two relatives. His son and successor, or his
nephew and protege, he may endure, although in a
majority of cases they do not trouble to exert
themselves like an ordinary clerk. Easy as to
their future, and confident of the affection of the
boss their relative, they take it easy, and even if
they have abilities, allow them to rust. But in the
Civil Service the country employs a prodigious
number of sons and nephews or the bosses for the
time being, all more or less satisfied to take things
comfortably, and trust to interest for advance-
ment. When promotion is too slow for their
desires, or salaries do not satisfy their
wants—and when is it otherwise?—a very
agreeable plan is to take it easy during official
horn’s, write one’s letters and figure up one’s
affairs, doing just enough of a stroke to preserve
appearances, and then, full of devotion and
ardour, to assure “ the chief,” with a brow of care
and an air of exhaustion, that it is impossible to
get through the work in the time, but that you are
(noble self-sacrifice conveyed and understood) pre-
pared to return and labour into the night. By this
moans two salaries can very well be earned for one
job. This is an extreme case; but there is little
doubt that, thronged as the Civil Service is with
superfluous hands, and beautiful but easy-going
nephews of everybody, there would be no over-
time were there no underwork. On the other
hand, however, there exist a certain proportion of
Civil Servants who have the misfortune to be —
figuratively speaking—nobody’s son or nephew.
And as there is plenty of work to occupy the time
of half the men in the Service, and it falls upon
that contingent to execute nearly all of what is
done, it may sometimes happen that—a somebody’s
nephew having been granted sick leave for a visit
to Flemington or a run to Tasmania—the unlucky
nephew of nobody, already discharging the work
which two other of the fortunates should be doing,
is called upon to add the labour of the absentee
also to his task. It may be but a straw, yet it
breaks his already burdened back. But Mr. Stuart
is still quite right. The substitute should not be paid
by the Treasury. He should be paid by the absentee.
And, having come to this, we may as well admit
that we don’t see how the plan could be worked.
And, failing a workable discriminative system, the
lesser evil we believe to be —no overtime.
♦
“ Even Clergymen.”
“ Dr. Renwick tells us, and those who have had
experience will not need to be informed, that in
tho matter of giving recommendations, even
clergymen cannot be trusted.” So the Herald.
Even clergymen! Anybody but a clergyman would
have written “ especially clergymen.” It is a
matter of notoriety that no recommendation is so
unreliable as one signed by a clergyman. When
free emigration to Australia was in full swing, anti
English parish overseers found it an economical
plan to get rid of the loafers and incapables who
couldn’t or wouldn’t work, and the town idiot,
everyone of these worthies was trotted up into
town with a gilt-edgel recommendation by tln't
rector. John Plomeh was recommencled by'
clergymen as a Public School teacher. The
greatest scoundrels in gaol are the men who are
the chaplains’ pets. The fact is that parsons
don't understand mankind a little bit, and it
is unluckily their little vanity to believe
that that is just what they do understand.
Every scamp knows which is the parson’s
blind side, and sidles up from that direction. It’s
not the clergymen’s fault, of course. The trouble
is that nothing is so easy to pretend as religious
convictions, and that no matter how sinful a dearly
beloved may have been to the parson’s knowledge,
the unctuously comfortable idea that he has saved
him throws a veil of sacred vanity over the re-
verend dupe’s perceptions. The worse the convert
has boen, the greater the triumph of the Gospel
when he is “brought to see the error of his ways,”
and likewise to interlard his language with biblical
expressions. It is more than human nature is
capable of to entertain the suspicion that one
hasn’t accomplished such a splendid cure of souls
after all, or that a man so penitent and so pene-
trated with the right views could be wearing his
tongue in his cheek with wicked ulterior objects
all tho time. So the parson, tickled like a trout,
describes in a testimonial, in the best of faith, an
entirely ideal person, that is to say the regenerated
individual, who is often enough simply a weakly
emotional person, with a fine stock of good inten-
tions, and a dangerously shifty susceptibility to the
last influence brought to bear upon him, or else a
slippery scamp without, a vestigo of principle or
self-respect, who would profess Mahommedanism,
or follow tho prophet Jok Smith, if he thought he
saw his way to any sort of advantage by doing so.
Mr. Roli.eston’s recent presidential address at
the annual moeting of the New South Wales Royal
Society was a dignified, a clear, and an accurate
portrait of that great man (Darwin), whose death
we needn’t now so much regret since we have his
completed work. It would be saying too much to
praise Mr. Christopher Rolleston’s address as
masterly; there was too much attention paid to
Darwin’s visit to these colonies, which was merely
an incident, and is lost by comparison with the re-
sults of his long and patient research. Yet the
address was not unworthy of the occasion, and
deserves praise for its candid and fair treat-
ment of what is still a vexed question. But
even such a meeting could not pass with-
out something mal-apropos, and this element
was contributed by Mr. Philip Gidley King,
who moved the customary vote of thanks to the
President for his address. This gentleman favoured
the audience with a prelection on his own early
association with the great naturalist. We pass
over what is personal to Mr. Darwin, and there
remain two statements of Mr. King’s opinion
whicn set their mark on his address. The first is
that while in Mr. King’s company as cabin mate
on the “Beagle” Mr. Darwin was not tainted
with the heterodoxy which (eheu!) developed in
later years. What a benefit for Mr. King ? How
providentially that estimable person was saved
from the pernicious influence of “ Evolution ”
and “Selection”! The second was the reference
to Mr. Darwin’s funeral. We trust it will be
believed on Mr. King’s authority that two Bishops
of the Anglican Church attended that ceremony.
Who will now venture to deny that the Church is
forgiving and loving-minded? or that the moral
rehabilitation of the poor erring philosopher was
♦ompletej?
The Rates of Subscription to The Bulletin,
New Series, are—For one year, 245.; half-year,
125.; quarter, Bs,
The Advertising Rates in the New Series are ss.
per inch; special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows :—On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 28 consecutive insertions,
15 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 25 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion.
A LITTLE HINT TO CONTRIBUTORS.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-cle-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.']
“R.S.”: There are no active volcanoes in
Australia. Will answer your other questions next
week— “ Major ”: To hand “ Constant Reader ”
(Townsville): Cutting Received “A. M s”:
Your item very welcome “O’G.” (Wellington,
N.Z.): Very acceptable “ Free Selector ”: “The
Fate of a Fighting Dog” we have seen before—
“G.H.S.”: Thanks. Please write on only one side
of your paper....“J.A.” (Sutton Forest): Thanks.
— “Nemo” (Hobart): No, you don’t “Obser-
ver” (R’hampton): Give us something of general
interest— “ J.S.B.”: Take it to the literary grave-
yard whereof Angus Mackay is sexton “ Faun-
cey”: When you write “poetry,” don’t trouble
disguising your hand. We suppose your right
pame is Bayard Fauntleroy Montmorenci Smith,
and that you’re sweet on Gladys O’Hooligan
“T.J.F. ” (Herberton): What did the reporter
do with the brick when he next saw you ? En ?.. .
“ Red Skirt ”: There’s very little in it. Send us
something of interest “Ferguson”: Capital;
will print in a week or two “A.T.”: Many
thanks—“L.”: Why don’t you let us into the
secret ? Is it that four British naval officers have
been thrashing one civilian ? “ S.B.”: We really
don’t know why a learned Judge should go about
armed with a dagger....“ W. Garner ” (Balmain):
Wilson’s circus went through Batavia to India.
When last heard of, it was in Calcutta “Wax”:
Your communication re the recent banquet which
you allege was held at the Post Office is interesting
but your imagination is too vivid for us
“J.S.”: You have fallen into a very common
error. There is a wide difference between a
Cabinet meeting and an Executive Council. In
the Cabinet all matters are debated; while no ques-
tion is ever discussed at the Executive save the
fate of a man who is under sentence of death.
Capital sentences are often debated for hours, and
the cases adjourned from one meeting to another..
“ W. D.”: Yes, wo don’t guarantee insertion, but
send along—“W, T.” (Turout): You mistake; wo
want social items about respectable people —
“ Victim” (Orange): If you are a victim we don’t
want our readers to be the same. Your poem’s too
jagged, honey “E. M.” (Maitland): More deeply
funny to them than to us— “ J.L.S.”: write away
“J.E.C.”: Tho general public would not
unriddle it “C.K.”: We are convinced you know
all about science and religion, and if you only
governed the world for a time you’d make it a
splendid place. But boforo you again try writing
poetry got a better grip of spelling. When next
you feel inclined to writo about the “ Downefal of
darke supestision” don’t do it; but C K quiet spot
and practise harikari instead “J. 8.” : A deal too
lively. By the way, you should have sent us the
newspaper report of the case “Zany”: Much
obliged, but wo can’t publish it all the same
“.T.F’N.”: Noxtweek “Sport”: In April, 1877,
at Islington, Eng., O’Leary walked 51!) miles in 5
days 20h. 29m. s()sec. This is his best record—
“T.B.”: Yes, it can be played without any
tuitiou,
The Sydney Liberal quotes from the
Weekly Dispatch to show that the Land League
accounts were audited by two members of that
body. Well, perhaps, even in this respect, the
League is better placed than the N.S.W. Liberal
Association, whose accounts, if we are correctly
informed, wore last year not audited at all.
A Melbourne husband forgot that in his
wedding vow was contained the injunction, “ and
forsaking all other cleave thee only unto her as
long as ye both shall live," and better esteemed
the delicacies of the carambole and the wit of
billiard-markers. One night returning to his domi-
cile —the hour of the return was not due to his
virtuous resolutions, but to a friendly hint— he
found that his groom had constituted himself a
bridegroom. Divorce proceedings are now in
train. The parties are well-known in the Western
District of victoria.
The Rudge bicycles ridden by Lee and
Moyse in their grand four-mile race last Satur-
day were imported by J. Copland of Market-
street, whose advertisement is printed in this
issue. W. Paterson, winner of the mile handi-
cay, rode an “Invincible,” also imported by
Copland.
One day, after being considerably aggra-
vated by the judge, Colonel Ingersoll was walking
over, to a hotel for his dinner, when an old cab
horse made a savage snap at him with his teeth.
Turning like a flash, Ingersoll said: “ In the devil’s
name, what court are you the judge of?” The
anecdote got whispered round in court that after-
noon, and the captious judge had a hard time
among the lawyers for the rest of the day.
Rev. Talmage declares that the name of
the raven that visited Edgar Allen Poe was D.T.,
“ only that, and nothing more.” Not unlikely; and
rather smart of Talmage. But what about the
“ lost Len ore ?” “ Bare and radiant maidens ” are
not generally associated with blue devils, pink
bulldogs with eyes like Waverley tram-lights, and
visions of that kind. The visions are hardly so
pleasant. Stay! though. Bad as the D.T. visions
might be, they can’t be much worse than a nauseous
dose of De w .T.
The consumption of lager beer is every
day increasing in the colonies, and much of this
result is due to the Anheuser Brewing Associa-
tion, who have put on the Australian market an
article of unsurpassable excellence. The agents
are Messrs. J, W. Butcher and Co., who now are
executing orders for every town in Australia.
Homebush is destined to be the great
suburb of Sydney, and the great railway junction
of the colony. The land is elevated and the scenery
magnificent. Near the historic racecourse, and
within three minutes of the railway station, one of
largest hotels in N. S. W. is in course of erection—
Sturt’s Wentworth Hotel. The cost is about
£25,000; 120 rooms, with spacious balconies, court-
yards, &c.
“Give Me Time.”
Dm you hear, reader, of the eviction of Mary
Baster V Well, it occurred in London, and it’s a
very short story. She died from cold and famine
in that great city of gold. She couldn’t pay her
rent, and was very ill. In the bitter depth of an
English winter, her landlord took the furniture;
on the DOth December he took the window and
door away. If a man wants the sleet and snow
and hail to beat into his own house, of course he
has a legal right to let them; but still the perverse
widow didn’t pay. On the last day of 1882, the
parish officer found Mary Baster in a faint, with
blue-cold limbs, and wasted frame, with hair
clotted with mud, propped up against the frost-
beaded wall—ill, starved, dying. But he found her
too late, and Mary Baster spent her New Year
where there are no landlords, and no rent is asked.
She had promised to pay, and had pleaded: “Give
me time—”
’Mid the wealth of a city away in the West,
Where pity is cold as the clime,
In a windowless room, sits a widow, oppressed
With the nightmare of want, and the pain of un-
rest,
Whose weak voice beseeches for “Time!”
With the clots of the mud of the street in her hair,
Propped up by the wall all agrime
With the marks of long struggle, she bends to
despair,
For the grip of the law of the landlord is there,
That murders her—yet for no crime.
Of the relics she strove to retain, none is left,
The broker has had her last dime;
By wrong, dressed in legal attire, she’s bereft,
Starved dead by the law: not for fraud or for
theft,
But merely for wanting of time.
The landlord by law is upheld in his deed;
Yet! Christ would accuse him of crime
Who presses the pauper to death in his need—
Who ne’er to the cry of the orphan gives heed—
Or the plea of the widow for “Time.”
Cobargo.
W. APSEY.
Coughs and Colds
THE Best Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
(gy PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6s. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS
Single Edit Dejaritnen
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET,
where you can obtain lor
OcL.
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per Half-Pint,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but AVINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome of all Beverages.
C. AV. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNE L I S II WHISKY,
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS,
Market Street, Sydney.
FURNITURE! FURNITURE!
“ \\T HERE i* the best place to buy Furniture?”
» » This question is being asked every day,
and is of as much interest to anyone needing a
Single article, as to the “Happy Couple” just
setting up housekeeping, and who want every-
thing from a kitchen table to a drawing-room suite.
VISIT THE
' HYDE PARK
Furnishing Exhibition
OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY,
Just opened by
MMUII MO DAVIS,
Late HARDY BROTHERS.
EVERl r HOUSEHOLD REQUISITE MAY
BE HAD HERE.
Don’t be misled and waste time and money by
sending from one place to another; but remem-
ber that
The Largest Stock offers the Best Selection
THE HYDE PARK FURNISHING EXHIBITION
is the Most Extensive Establishment in the
Colonies.
For SUBSTANTIAL FURNITURE,
ELEGANT FURNITURE,
WELL-MADE FURNITURE,
DURABLE FURNITURE;,
Go to the
HYDE PARK FURNISHING EXHIBITION.
For Good Workmanship, Excellence and Dura-
bility of Materials, the Goods now on offer are
unequalled, whilst the Prices will be found
MARVELLOUSLY LOAV !
This vast collection has been selected and manufac-
tured with a practical regard for modern re-
quirements and improved taste.
We invite you to inspect our Stock; you will
be asked to buy what you do not want, for
object is to RETAIN as well as OBTAIN patrom
and we rely on the satisfaction, good opinion,
recommendation of our customers.
Remember these important facts
OUR STOCK IS THE LARGEST,
OUR STOCK is the MOST COMPREHENSIVE,
OUR STOCK IS THE BEST,
OUR STOCK IS THE CHEAPEST.
tST The utmost care is given to packing anc
forwarding all goods bought at this Establishment
and Country Customers may rely upon the proinp
execution of their orders,and the delivery of then
purchase in a sound condition.


THE SCIENCE OF KISSING.
“ Nyum-Nyum.”— Shakespeare.
EOPLE will kiss,
yet not one in a hun-
dred knows how to
extract bliss from
lovely lips, any more
than he knows how to
make diamonds from charcoal.
First know whom you are going
to kiss. Don’t make a mistake,
although a mistake may
bo good. Don’t jump like
a trout for a fly, and smack a
good woman on the neck, on the
oar, on the corner of her fore-
head, or on the end of her
nose, or knock off her lace
fall. The gentleman should
be a little the taller. He should have a clean face,
a kind eye, and a mouth full of expression. Don’t
kiss everybody. Don’t sit down to it; stand up.
Need not be anxious about getting in a crowd.
Two persons are plenty to corner, and catch a
kiss ; more persons would spoil the sport. Take
the left hand of the lady in your right; let your
your hat go to—any place out of the way ; place
the left hand gently over the shoulder of the ady )
and let it fall down the right side, towards the belt.
Don’t be in a hurry ; draw her gently, lovingly, to
your heart. Her head will fall lightly upon your
shoulder,—and a handsome shoulder-strap it
makes. Don’t be in a hurry : send a little life
down your left arm. Her left hand is in your
right; let there be an impression to that, not like
the grip of a vyce, but a gentle clasp full of electri-
city, thought, and respect. Don’t be in a hurry.
Her head*lies carelessly on your shoulder. You are
nearly heart to heart. Look down into her half-
closed eyes. Gently, yet manfully press her to
your bosom. Stand firm. Be bi’ave, but don’t be
in a hurry. Her lips are almost open. Lean
slightly forward with your head, not the body.
Take good aim ; the lips meet, the eyes close ; the
heart opens ; the soul rides the storms, troubles,
and sorrows of life (don’t be in a hurry); heaven
opens before you ; the world shoots under your
feet, as a meteor Hashes across the evening sky
(don’t be afraid); the nerves dance before the j ust
erected altar of love, as zephyrs dance with the
dew-trimmed flowers ; the heart forgets its bitter-
ness, and the art of kissing is learned. No fuss, no
noise, no fluttering. It don’t require a brass band
to make it legal.
Kissing is one of the easiest things in the
world to do, when there’s no one looking, except
you and her. And, if you notice, she generally shuts
her eyes. When, however, there are several hun-
dreds of people looking on at the interesting opera-
tion, it’s a different matter; and a difficult
matter, too, to accomplish with just the' proper
amount of earnestness and grace required. The
general youth, who thinks himself rather good at
this sort of thing in private life, will no doubt be
surprised to hear that it’s one of the most artful
acts on the stage to do correctly. And if the
amateur doesn’t take care, he’ll find his feet trip-
ping in a silk train, his coat sleeve caught in some
delicate floating lace, the lappel smudged with
white powder, and very likoly he and his healthy
but heavy girl will stagger in a most undignified
manner, because she doesn’t know how to hold him
rightly, and he steps out with the wrong foot.
The art of love-making and its contingent kissing
have been most carefully studied by leading
actresses, and thev all have their own peculiar
method of osculation. Pretty Miss Neilson used
t
so hang around Romeo's neck as if she loved the
mell of starched shirt-front, and with an ecstatic
abandon that was very gratifying to him. And
when the kiss was put on, it stayed a long time.
Sara Jewett is said to bestow a kiss as soft as vel-
vet, and has become noted for the grace with
which she can pose within a pair of manly arms.
Lotta just pecks at a fellow’s face, and is liable to
Strike anywhere between the eyes and the chin,
there is a jump, a smack, and that’s all. It’s the
w om kind of a kiss, because it can’t be antici-
pated, and the actor only realizes what it is when
it s all over.
Mrs. Langtry doesn’t impress one with the
idea that she cares about being kissed, as she only
allows the leading man to touch her lips respect-
fully, and doesn’t lie at all nicely in his arms.
Langtry’s kisses aren’t by any means commen-
surate with her fame. And it isn’t every man who
could do her justice, either ; for if he does not
make his lips pretty extensive, he’ll most likely
find he has left, about a quarter of her rosebud
month nnkissed after all. Miss Mary Anderson is
rather difficult to kiss nicely, because she is too
tall to nestle down upon a manly broad chest. She
kisses in a good, straightforward way, however, as
though she isn’t ashamed of it.
That old Australian favorite, Catherine Lewis,
whose sprightly ways in opera bouffe win for her
hosts of male admirers in every city she visits, has
evidently given a great deal of thought to tho art.
She wraps her arms about the neck of her mock
lover as if she wanted to make them go twice
around, and when she is sure of her grip she opens
her lips freely and glues them oil the right spot,
according to the laws of suction. All is still for a
few seconds ; then there is a loud pop, and the
operation is over. Her sister, Jeffreys-Lewis, is
more subdued, yet extremely luxurious. She likes
her lover to sit in a ehair. She walks cautiously
around him first, as though she was watching a
place to light on. With a whirl she falls on her
knees and bends backward over his right knee,
tossing her arms about his neck and drawing his
face close to hers, For a moment she looks into
his eyes, and then proceeds to business. The kiss
jS long, quiet, and dreamy, and means whole
volumes. Modjeska kisses in an intellectual
fashion. She prefers to be kissed rather than to
kiss, and her graceful movements make her an
easy person to act with. There is no unnecessary
clutching and clawing to hold on to her lover
She rests upon his bosom in a picturesque way
that is very pleasing to the eye.
Drowsiness, biiliousness, pains and aches, and
ag-ue, Hop Bitters always cures. Read.
An eminent physician says the playing of
a piano will gotten quiet the ravings or a maniac.
We should think so. There is no use for a maniac
to howl and clamor when he can’t hear himself.
A judge having fallen asleep during a trial,
Lawyer X- suddenly ceased pleading, and ex-
claimed: “ I will wait until his Honor wakes before
finishing.” “ But,” answered the opposing counsel,
“perhaps his Honor will wait until you have
finished before waking.”
A pawnbroker has discovered that ninety-
nine per cent, of the money he lends is spent on
strong drink. Hence it is that a pawnbroker ad-
vances so little money on a pawned article and
charges so much for the accommodation. It is all
in the interest of temperance.
The Western Champion (Blaekall) was so
interested in chronicling the gift of what it terms
“a monstrous spud,” that it forgot, for a while,
all about the education question. But we shall
watch, next week, for the leader commencing—
“ The general principles of the Kindergarten
system are such as, to an impartial mind,” etc. We
shall expect this, we may mention, if no one
leaves, prior to its being in type, either a bag of
small potatoes or a bunch of bananas for the editor
to found a moral essay on.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Love in a muddle.—
If us loved them, and him loved she,
And each of both were fond of he,
AVhich caused the rest to disagree,
Because she liked the other three,
And wouldn’t marry they or we
For fear of slighting: him and me,
I wonder w lie re we all should be!
A child has been born in America whose
body is not so long as the forearm of an ordinary
person, and whose weig ht at birth was but one and
a half pounds. The child’s body is but eleven inches
long, and nowhere is the circumference more than
six inches. Its hand is not so large as a penny,
its head is no larger than a piece of chalk or
a walnut, its arms look like a man’s little
finger when it has not much nail on it, and the
child’s leg looks like a man’s centre finger when it
has no wart. It is a perfectly-formed child, its
physical organization being faultless even to its
hair.
Everyone has observed the helplessness of
a woman when a ’bus is going by, and the boy finds
it convenient not to see her. She can’t whi tie, and
fails at a shout. She can scream like fun; but the
only time it would be any earthly use to her, she
won’t do it. Finally, when the ’bus has got beyond
the range of any living voice, she grabs the nearest
male—sure to be a shy young man, with a red face
—and, without ever having an introduction to him,
coolly says: “Oh, please tell that ’bus to stop.”
We’ve known young men suddenly trapped this
way die on the spot. But what we introduced the
subject for was merely to say that somebody has
invented a small shrill silver whistle for ladies to
carry as a trinket. Bless him!
Here is the ironclad vow taken by the
members of a Young Women’s Anti-Tobacco As-
sociation “I, Jane Jenkins (or whatever the
name may be), solemnly pledge my sacred honour
that I will never again kiss any young man, his
father, brother, lincle or cousin, who chews,
smokes or snuffs, or carries any cigarettes. I
further declare that I will not allow any such
person to sit up with me in the night time,
either in parlour, summer-house, or any other
place ; neither will I ride out at night in a covered
carriage or buggy, with any such cigarette
smoker; but if by accident or over-persuasion I
should be induced to do so, I pledge my word as a
loving-hearted girl that I will sit on the opposite
side of the conveyance and keep my head turned
to the exterior. And should he venture to put
his arm around my neck or waist, drawing me to-
ward him, and attempt to kiss, or hug me, 1 pledge
my word that I will treat him as coldly as my
defenceless condition will allow. All of which I
solemnly promise and declare without equivoca-
tion or mental reservation.”
Perhaps the queerest model for imitation
ever proposed to young ladies was the one selected
for their emulation by Mr. Laishley, Chairman of
the Board of Education, at a distribution of certifi-
cates of merit to the students at the Girls’ High
School, Auckland (N.Z.) When Mark Twain
delivered his celebrated after-dinner reply to the
toast of “the Ladies,” he dwelt upon the shining
example furnished by, among others, Lucrezia
Borgia. But Mark was funning, whereas Mr.
Laishley was in solemn earnest when he counselled
the Auckland girls to follow in the steps of
—Madame de Pompadour 1 The style in which
Mr. Laishley urged the example of Pompa-
dour upon the High School girls was as
funny as his choice of her as a model. He said:
“Think for this purpose of that lady of France,
ugly and poor, whom Louis XIV. detested, but
who was determined that he should marry her.
She was clever and resolute, gifted with that spirit
of perseverance, that lixity of purpose, which,
whether its object be the training of a poodle or
the subjugation of a hero, is sure to succeed atlast,
so she waited and watched; and ex necessitate he
had to marry her. But make haste slowly. And
now, young ladies, to mark the occasion, I give you
a half-holiday.” The girls must have needed the
half-holiday to laugh in, and to coilect their
dishevelled ideas. It must have taken their breath
away to And themselves advised to be clever and
resolute, to cultivate a fixity of purpose, and apply
it to the subjugation of a hero by waiting and
watching, and so arranging matters that the hero
finds himself bound to marry them from the
necessities of the case! This exemplar of what an
Auckland young lady should be, was a handsome
penniless girl, who first married an old man for his
money and position. As his wife she entered the
great world and attended court, and then deliber-
ately threw herself at the head of King
Louis XV., whose mistress she became. She
was never married to him. Louis was an-
other meagre little wretch, crammed with
vanity, a “ hero ” who never joined his own armies
without trundling his own retinue of princesses
and mistresses at his heels, and then only when he
had received positive assurances that his Marshal
had fixed up a beleagured city or an enemy inferior
in force, so that he had only to come and see the
victory gained. Pompadour went to live with
Louis, and soon achieved such an ascendancy over
him that she made the old boy get rid of his other
ladies, till she began to get faded, and then she
reclaimed hap influence by introducing other
young ladies—from a Girl’s High School per-
haps —to the Monarch. When Mr. Laishley
next wants to pick out a paragon for the Auckland
girls to imitate, he might as well try Cleopatra or
Mrs. Langtry. Cleopatra subjugated a lot of
heroes, while Mrs. Langtry “Yes, dear; hold
the baby ? Certainly.”
* &
Some women recently got up an anti-
smoking society. The question upon which they
divided was whether it would be better to refuse
to kiss all the young men who soiled their lips
with tobacco, or to agree to kiss all those who did
it Nothing so strongly tests a man’s veracity as
to be summoned to the door to be confronted
with the question—“ Are you the head of the
house V” Mrs. Smith, triumphantly: “ The hand
that rocks the cradle is the hand tiiat rules the
world.” Mr. Smith, cynically: “Yes, indeed, my
dear; and that’s just why the world is so deuccdly
badly governed.” The “ last words” of men are
often printed—the last words of women never
When the practical Mrs. Smith was told of a won-
derful instance of prayer-cure, she remarked:
“ Only think of it! It didn’t cost a single penny,
did it ?” No furniture can give such finish to a
room as a tender woman’s face. And yet when a
woman wants a new drawing-room suite that
argument won’t avail you a copper... The rule of
three : For the third person to clear out The
wall-flowers at a ball have a kind of “ forget-me-
not” air about them There is a difference be-
tween a bull in a china-shop and a new girl in the
kitchen. The difference is one of sex, however
An unmarried man has sued his own mother.
This is a casejwliere a fellow had a mother-in-law
and never had a wife The question is asked us
if there is anything that will bring youth to women.
Yes, indeed. An income of (say) £lOOO will bring
any number of them... Mrs. M. (on being compli-
mented on the charms of her daughters): “Yes,
sir, they’re well enough looking girls. Some ad-
mires the ‘bronze ’ and some the ‘ blunettes.’ ”
A gentleman who recently received a piece of
wedding-cake, placed it under his pillow, and all
night long he revelled in the most delightful dreams
of the beautiful heiress he was about to wed. In
the morning, when he awakened, he was struck
with the sickening sensation that he was already
married and had seven hungry yowling children to
provide for Here is a curious state of things.
Under the new English Married Women’s Property
Act, a woman is liable to be arrested for theft if
she elopes and takes with her any of her husband’s
Eroperty. Mrs. Margaret Fletcher ran away from
er home at Workington, and carried with her
jewels and wearing apparel valued at £l2. Her
husband sued for a divorce and got it, and then
prosecuted his wife as a thief. The court decided
against the defendant, who was beautiful as well
as wayward.
Dr. STANICH, Aurist (by appointment) to
His Excellency the Governor of New South Wales,
may be oonsulted on the Eye, Ear, and Throat
Diseases, at 50 WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
THE NEWSLETTER.
Five per cent, of those policy-holders of
the A. M. P. Society who died last year were cut
off by typhoid, and live per cent, by alcoholism,
len per cent, died from accidents. How many of
these accidents were caused by drink is not stated.
The children at a Dry Plain (Cooma) school,
being- addicted to cricket and in want of a ball,
stole a number of turkey-chickens, which they
doubled up, bound with twine, and used in place
of the orthodox leather sphere.
There have been several cases of leprosy
among- white men in N.S.W., and Dr. Cecil Morgan
is of opinion that in a few years leprosy will be
one of the stock diseases of this glorious country.
Politicians should think over what the doctor say's.
No one can afford to have physical and mental
leprosy all at once.
Considerable astonishment has been ex-
pressed at the boy-Judge Noel, of Queensland,
sentencing a horse-stealer to 10 years for his first
offence against the law. A few years ago some
well-to-do young- settlers got IT years each, in
West Australia, lor shooting, among certain wild
cattle, an antiquated working* bullock which had
strayed amongst the mob. The owner had a
derry” on them, and the relics of a barbarous law
did the rest.
This item conies from Adelaide, which
city is howling just now over “Social Purity.” She
was a homeless outcast, and a raging attack of
puerperal fever held her. The hospital doors were
closed in her face, and the local asylum refused
her admittance also. At length the hospital found
a spare corner, the homeless maniac was admitted, a
knife was left carelessly but conveniently near, and
the coroner subsequently observed it was a clear
case of suicide.
The Premier objects to pay overtime in
Government offices. It’s a pity lie's not a tele-
graph clerk, for then he would have a chance of
knowing how a man feels when he works fourteen
hours a day during the week and drops in on Sun-
day to amuse himself for a few hours with the in-
strument. During the awful times of torpedo
warfare, many of our metropolitan lightning con-
ductors have to work from 9 a.m. till midnight.
After the unfortunate Mr. Clarke and his
boy had been killed and eaten by the Archer river
blacks, the ammunition carried by them was
thrown into the fire and caused a great explosion.
Some of their firearms have been taken to Cook-
town by Inspector Fitzgerald, who has also
brought with him a supposed cannibal thought to
be capable of throwing some light' on this terrible
affair. Mr. Fitzgerald, who was completely woi-n
out by the expedition, is very ill of lung-hemor-
rhage.
Edward Bottrell, an advertising “ disease-
curer” who is possessed of far more impudence
than diploma, and who some time ago managed to
get himself dubbed “Doctor” Hottrell by the S.
M. Herald, was lined £2O and costs the other day
for having assisted in the distribution of an ob-
scene book, entitled “Such Things Exist,” and in-
formed that if he again came before the court lie
would be sent to gaol. Hottrell, who was some
years ago fined in Melbourne for practising with-
out proper qualification, has made plenty of
money in Sydney, where scores of credulous hypo-
chondriacs flock to his shrine.
Leprosy is, it has been settled beyond
doubt, communicable to whites. At the Hawaii
leper settlement, there are ten white lepers out of
a total of eight hundred cases. Two children of
foreign parentage are also reported as having con-
tracted leprosy through vaccination with virus
taken from the arm of a native. One of these
children died at Honolulu within a short time
after being vaccinated. Forty-eight lepers arrived
at Honolulu per Lohna from Maui, on the 10th
March. Was over anything more horrible than a
leper settlement ?” There are over 1000 lepers at
large in the islands, and the annual crop of new
cases is from 200 to 250, or one person infected
annually by every six lepers.
Another river—named after the discoverer,
Mr. T. A. Bizant—has been found in North Queens-
land, 150 miles from Cooktown, in the neighbour-
hood of Princess Charlotte’s Bay. It runs nearly
north and south, and is navigable for over 20 miles
from 100 to 200 yards wide, with a depth of 14 ft. of
water at half-title on the bar. There are no diffi-
culties in entering* the river. The country near
the coast is low and swampy for about ten miles
from the sea, but after that, on the eastern side,
there are fine open plains with but very few trees
and plenty of water; on the west side there are
more hills, as also on the southern; but on both
sides there are large and navigable crocks. Soil
and climate good; very few blacks; plenty of fish.
At Charters Towers (Q.) Robert Brown Nes-
bitt, a drunken miner, called at a couple of hum-
pies at two o’clock on Sunday morning, and asked
the inmates to have some schnapps. Next morn-
ing he was found dead, stiff and cold, outside one
of the humpies, with a bullet-wound through his
temple. The police theory is that he was shot when
standing, and fell against sumo hard substance
which cut his hat. Others think he was shot
whilst lying in a drunken sleep, and that the re-
volver was put close to his temple, which bore the
marks of powder. The occupiers of the humpies
(Pratt and Middeton, unmarried, and Simpson, a
married man) have been arrested on suspicion. A
Colt’s six-chamber revolver was found in Pratt’s
trunk, one barrel recently discharged, the other
five being unloaded. The affair is shrouded in mys-
tery, and no motive for the crime has, so far, been
suggested.
Mr. Justice Wiudeyer, the Draco of the
N.SW. bench, has his hands full just now, for he
must naturally be interested in maintaining the
justice of the sentences he imposes. Some time
ago M’Mahon, then Mayor of Petersham, a man of
wealth, and theretofore of good repute, was con-
victed of uttering a forged £lOOO bill, purporting
to bear the signature of one Andreas, who was
dead before M‘Mahon traded off the promissory
note. The Judge sent prisoner to gaol for seven
or eight years, remarking that he had been found
guilty of the hideous crime of robbing a dead
™an—° r rather of robbing his widow and children.
M Mahon has plenty of money (the Crown does not,
in these days, exercise its power of confiscatin'’- the
estates of convicted felons), and his money
buys friends who are trying hard to ob-
tain his release. Last week, again, Thomas
Cosgrove, a Gortschakoff of sixty, was convicted
of murder. He had “ taken up ” with a fifty-year
old charmer named Wagner, and had entrusted her
with £l5O, all the money lie had in the world. She
left him to live with another man, and refused to
return his little hoard. He went to her one night
and asked her to kiss him. She turned to do so,
whereupon he shot her mortally. Judge Windeyer
sentenced him to death, and told him there wasn’t
a single mitigating circumstance” in his case.
We think a French jury would hold this to bo
murder in the second degree. Cosgrove, if sent to
gaol, will probably die before ten years ; a life-
long sentence means for an old man like him sen-
tence of death. The Judge has sent to gaol, for
eight years the previously “ respectable ”
cur who cut the throat of a racehorse •
and he prescribed fifteen years’ gaol for the oft-
convicted scoundrel who atempted robbery under
arms at Colyton, and who, after knocking down
voung Mr. Andrews with the butt of a pistol, was
beaten off by the fine plucky 81-ycar-old father of
the fallen man. No exception is taken to the two
last named sentences; but it seems possible that
Bechet, the French merchant who got seven years
for arson, with a view to pocketing his insurance,
will sooner or later have Ins case “ favourably con-
sidered.” Bechet himself didn’t anticipate con-
viction—in fact he was so sure of acquittal that, on
the night before the trial, he ordered an elaborate
supper to be ready for him and the friends who
wore to celebrate his happy escape. But Nemesis
came botween the cup and the lip.
Thousands of both sexes who would shud-
der at the thought of tasting the adulterated
liquors in common use, take Wolfe’s Schnapps
medicinally as a remedy for debility, indigestion,
and like ailments.*


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Ristori’s daughter has just become engaged
to M. Bacourt, secretary to the French I,elation at
Koine. The fiancee is said to have a dowry ot
1,000,000 lire.
Old Costley, who left £130,000 to Auckland
charities, was, a N.Z. paper insinuates, so “ unos-
tentatious” (to put it mildly) in his personal ap-
pearance, that on one occasion a resident dropped a
shilling: into his hand by way of charity. The
journal states that much curiosity exists as to
what particular church Costley belonged, and how
it was that no parson or priest got hold ot nun be-
fore his exit from this vale of teal’s. Another
paper alludes to the deceased as “ a striking in-
stance of the superiority of religious morality over
religious creed.
From Melbourne Punch :
“ IN MEMORIAM.
SIR JOHN O’SHAN ASSY.
Ob. May sth, 1883.
“ A holier Crusader never knelt
To take from Rome a leader s sacred trust—
We, who believed him wrong, still ever felt
That he himself believed his cause was just.
Where can his Church on such another calli'
‘ He was the noblest Roman of them all.
The Langtrys are again before the public
by the fact that Miss Agnes Langtry, sister of the
Lily’s husband, sent from England to chaperone
her through the United States when Mrs. Labpu-
chere gave up the task, eloped on March 31st with
a Toronto young man named Stone, and was mar-
ried at the Church of All Saints, at Drummond-
ville, Toronto. The Lily, once more desolate, is
very angry with her sister, and shocked at what
she calls her want of propriety ; but the tact is the
latter was sensible in not missing the opportunity
to get a good husband.
The Evening News dilates upon the no velty
of an actor, while under arrest, playing for a night
at the Princess Theatre. Dunedin (N.Z.), and ot a
young Mexican tumbler, while undergoing a
month’s seclusion for being drunk and dyspeptic,
being escorted by a tile of soldiers nightly froni his
cell to the circus to perform acrobatic duties.
These cases have colonial precedents. Years ago,
when Captain ruled the jurisprudential roast
at Sydney, big Jack Dargon, a military prisoner,
was allowed out of the custody of the Provost one
day to light Abe Davis for the diversion of the
officers and their friends. Ahe won the day, but
Dargon had portion of his sentence remitted for
the stoicism with which he sustained his brutal
“ bashing.”
All speakers are not quite so wide-awake
as Speaker Barton. In a certain colony a, knightly
speaker is of a rather somnolent disposition. He
had lately returned from a visit to Albion, and had
been considerably “champagned ” by the mem-
bers. Shortly after the House resumed in the
middle of a somewhat excitable debate, an omi-
nous snore from the Speaker’s throne sent a thrill
of silence through the Legislative Hall. The clerk
of the House, seeing the state of affairs, gave the
dozy chief a few respectful nudges. He, waking
up in a half stupor, but with most resonant voice,
cried • “ The question now before the House is that
this House do now adjourn; those who are of that
opinion will say ‘aye,’ on the contrary ‘no, and
the ‘ayes’ have it!’'’ And the amazed House did
adjourn, though some people believe the “ mouth
had more to do with that perfunctory adjournment
than the “ ayes.”
When referring to the late Czar, it has been
the invariable habit of most journals to refer to
him as a sort of saint and martyred Liberal, whose
shining virtue was the emancipation of the serts,
an act of spontaneous beneficence, indicative
of the humanity of his disposition. On the other
hand, a correspondent of the Pall Mall Gazette,
writing from Russia, says the revolutionists “knew,
what we all know, that the great reform of 1861,
the emancipation of the serfs, was no act of
Imperial beneticenoe, but was extorted by the
dread of a general insurrection.” The martyred
Czar’s reputation as a saint hurriedly manufactured
for a special occasion, isn’t wearing well. Getting
frayed already. We shouldn’t wonder, if after a
few more years, the reputation of “ the monster
Arabi” smelt sweeter than that of “the Father of
his People.”
“Bob” Lowe,now Lord Sherbrooke, was a
pretty active writer for the colonial press while
residing in Sydney. His method of composition
was unique. He would throw himself on a couch,
and with his face to the wall deliver a hot and
vigorous speech, from which dictation the article
would be penned by a smart writer. The youngster
usually employed for this work was a son of an
eminent murderer, who was one of the last con-
victs executed publicly in Sydney. The gentleman
in question, who was very highly connected indeed,
murdered an old woman for the sake of a few
shillings. Mr. Lowe unsuccessfully defended him
in court, and after he had fallen down and broken
his neck, the now eminent statesman took care of
his children.
Mark Twain likes champagne to loosen
his tongue when he has to talk, but says it clogs
the brain for lengthened literary labour. Oliver
Wendell Holmes prefers his brain unclouded by
any stimulant whatever, when writing. But he
admits that mental action is quickened by spiritu-
ous liquors, and even that bright ideas reaching
the brain under their influence may remain.
Matthew Arnold drinks claret, and works well on
it. Professor Blackie takes wine for appetite, but
never for work. Wilkie Collins says lie is nerved
and composed by using tobacco. Edison becomes
violently excited by drink, but gets inspiration by
chewing tobacco. Gladstone regards a little wine
as necessary to him at the time of his great in-
tellectual exertions. Sir John Robertson confines
himself to peppermint. The Bulletin men all
take ginger beer and raspberry, but only in moder-
ate quantities.
Poor Bowie Wilson went out of politics a
few years ago like a corpulent squib bursting up
at both ends. He was one of the party who was
everywhere met with the saying, “Yes, Sir James”
—on account of their servility to “Jimmy Martin,”
the then head of the Government. Bowie con-
tested East Sydney. When he came forward at
the hustings, “ to give an account of his steward-
ship,” 4000 people said they didn’t want to hear it.
And they howled to that effect. It was one shriek,
whereupon Bowie remarked that if they wouldn’t
hear him, the country would. Ho then turned
round, and—horror of horrors [—delivered a solid
hour’s oration to the reporters. It was bad enough
to hear Bowie’s voice diluted with the laughter
and growls of 4000 people, but to have it delivered
neat, with trumpet-tongued harshness, right at
one’s ear, was indeed a torment. Bowie, of course,
was thrown out ,or rather was blown up, with his
whole party. In a word, they gave up law-making
for law-breaking.
In March last, the remains of John How ard
Payne were conveyed to New York, amid consider-
able popular feeling. He has been spoken of as
the wandering American who wrote a few lines of
doggerel to a plaintive scrap of Italian melody,
and then woke to find hiinselt famous. The coffin,
draped with the national colours, was carried in
procession; while through the streets from a crack
city band the strains of “ Home, sweet home,” from
the long-forgotten drama of “ Clari,” fell on the
ear; followed by “ Nearer, my God, to Thee,” “ The
lost chord,” the “ Old Hundredth,” and the “ Star-
spangled Banner,” An American writer thus dis-
solves some of the sentiment about the author of
the most sentimental ballad;—“ There has been
much said about the country’s ingratitude to
Payne. The country gave him a consulate—it has
done no more for Bret Harte. It built him a
monument—which it is trying to do for Washington
and Garfield. It immortalised him for writing
eight lines of slopwork verse for the libretto of a
flimsy opera.”
Of all the Queen’s sons, the Prince of Wales
eertainly comes in for most gossip. Yet there’s
one thing to be said in favour of Albert Edward;
he never forgets he’s a Prince—in public. He will
fyrt with Langtry, Cornwallis-West, Chamber-
lain, the shadowy Sarah, or the sprightly Nellie
Farren ; but he keeps dignified, resents familiarity,
and even in his easiest moments of dalliance is
always princely. The Duke of Edinburgh is a
cold, calculating, close-fisted man, with neither
many friends nor many enemies. He us almost
miserly in his fondness for money. T.he Duke of
Cornwall is a popularity-hunter, who makes a
point of taking much interested notice ot .other
people’s children, and there is nothing in which he
appears to take greater delig'ht than getting a chair
for an old lady, or handing round the cake at an
afternoon tea. The Duke of Albany is goody-goody;
has never been known to do anything particularly
good or particularly bad. He has £U),000 a year, a
German wife, and a peculiarly thin skin.
Dick Baker is a member for the Wimmera,
Vic., and recently, whilst inspecting a mine, fell
down a shoot and broke his leg. Believing he has
still a leg to stand upon, he is asking the company
for £250 compensation. Dick has been a good
many things. For years he hungered for Parlia-
mertt. He therefore spouted temperance, patro-
nised piety, and sold herbs to the poor in
Armstrong-street, Ballarat. He came very near
getting in once or twice; but, finally, finding the
Vales and Finchams and Brophys had pegged out
the electorates in and around Ballarat, he packed
up his few handfuls of dried turnip-tops and
started up the Wimmera country lite-insuring.
He can insinuate himself into any society in the
capacity of an agent, and can be persuaded to
leave. If he didn’t get a proposal, he came near
getting a vote. He got to know the wants of
every class in the vast district of the Wimmera,
stood, and was again beaten by a narrow majority.
The last election he played liis old tune on the
“Education Act in danger,” and turned out the
O’Callaghan. And now his leg is, we hope, mend-
ing. We mention him to recall a little thing said
whilst we were residing in Donald. A storekeeper
named Meyers, who was a very old resident, got
into difficulties. The heart of the astute Dick
bled, and from house to house and farm to farm
he carried the sympathetic tale of the downfall of
so old a resident. Dick had never been in Donald
before, but Dick’s heart wanted to bleed, and bleed
it did. Round went the hat, and in a week or two
his crushed soul had the satisfaction of handing
over, amidst thunders of applause from himself, a
stiff sum to the struggling tradesman. Dicks
name was down for a tidy sum at the top ot the
list—just to start the thing. He had got numerous
life proposals, he had got the character of a good,
kind-hearted man amongst voters’ wives, and now
he got back the little initiatory dole that set the
ball a-rolling.
J . : 5’
. ’__, --- _ _. I ‘ . . I .
,. L . . 1; J 2..» M - .
f ': g 7. ‘ .: '1'; 7:. .‘ Vz' ‘ J '
.‘ 7:.— .;'-I _E i ’1': A' ——:- ‘ : - I r J
9%}. {at ~-;—.;,:; “5?. 55,-?“ 1 ‘IL‘.
5" g :5; ~. "1 $.35 "é: . 13:17 § ‘ y
g” 3 ,- ”£iQ .:- - 4
_7 at — 5““. —,-.{)’ [JP-:3} a? _." , j: &:-\
rt .u‘,\ égU "gag? . ' ‘5
.- ,- -_, -.’ - 2:1“: -
[F] V‘ J x’ /.;J/ —_,3~;gg~,o ‘~- ‘5 ~-‘
s '°-
'T'r/M/A USUAL OCCUPA-riOrS
The Coronation of Kalakaua.
Thebe was more excitement in the Sand-
wich Islands over the coronation of Kalakaua than
has been known since that little matter of Captain
Cook’s. For weeks past the palace servants were
busy capturing stray missionaries, and fattening
them; and as these form the chief item in the
menu of £lite society there, as much as ten cocoa-
nuts and a collar button were known to be paid
for a good flabby missionary of the Hardshell
breed. The King’s costumiers had been engaged
in most elaborate toilets of glass beads and shells ;
and gifts from kind Sunday-school children, sent
out through the Society for Spreading the Gospel
and Supplying Silk Polonaises to the Females of
Desert Islands, were gratefully received. At noon
the King was sufficiently sober to be brought out
with much pomp, and the appearance of the pro-
cession as it moved off was hailed with delight and
decayed fruit. All the residents wore their best
costumes, and, as the weather was warm, they
mostly wore them on poles. First came the Prime
Minister and Cabinet in full undress, consisting of
paint and sharks’ teeth ; then the fattened mis-
sionaries ; and, lastly, His Majesty’s wives, whose
dresses were most tastefully abbreviated, and very
airy. It is impossible to describe them all, but we
may say that No. 37, who was decidedly the belle,
presented an elegant ensemble in blucher boots, a
scarlet garibaldi stylishly looped up on one side and
cut away on the other, and chevelure arranged with
cocoanut oil and junks of coral. The King wore a
pretty bonnet. Immediately after the procession,
the King was crowned amid the blare of tom-toms,
and the fattened missionaries won their martyrs’
crowns, and were served up by His Majesty’s chef
as follows
Baptist Missionary soup and onions.
Boast Methodist, with Episcopal gravy,
Presbyterian, stuffed with garlic,
Female Missionary minced.
The ceremony being concluded. King Kalakaua
picked his teeth with a hairpin, and his loyal
subjects went back to their usual occupations of
clubbing one another, and studying the knotty
problem of how the mischief the milk gets into the
cocoanut.
E. Russell Daunt, the pious gentleman who
left Sydney under circumstances very distressing
to those who had been so foolish as to trust him,
and who is charged with several larcenies as a
bailee, has, for pretty well-understood reasons,
returned to Sydney, and given himself up to the
officers of the law —though, according to some of
the daily papers, a detective “ received informa-
tion” aiid made “a smart capture.” It is to be
hoped that strict inquiry will be made into the
circumstances under which Daunt originally
effected his escape, and the alleged connection
therewith of a certain city man. It is asserted
that Daunt went on board snip dressed as a woman,
and that, with the assistance of a friend who
was very deeply interested in his departure, he
“ made himself up ” at a well-known temple of
Venus. All this reminds us that a young gentle-
man, who some months ago suddenly departed from
Sydney, leaving in deep mourning several shent
pershenters” and others who had advanced large
sums in view of his coming of age at an early date,
has surprised one or two creditors by forwarding
them drafts from England for the amount of his
indebtedness.
The city of Sandhurst is the only one in
the British dominions where a professional book-
maker has a seat at the Town Council, with an off-
chance of becoming Mayor, and a seat at the Hos-
pital Board, with a fair show of becoming President.
Nor is this all. Whenever a general election ap-
proaches, or a Parliamentary vacancy occurs,
numbers of enlightened citizens are to be found
imploring the “metallician” to “stand.” Oddly
enough, the person who receives this unquestion-
ing submission and support cannot speak half a
dozen sentences, or write half a dozen linos, with-
out leaving adverbs and adjectives, negatives and
affirmatives, singulars and plurals, as mixed as the
Yankee infantry after the first volley at Bull’s Run.
Men of every calling, from a pugilist to a doll’s eye
polisher, have been sent to make laws before now.
The names of the hod-men, chimney-sweeps, and
persons following more malodorous callings to be
found among Cromwell’s most uncompromising-
supporters, and among the sans-culottes of ninety
years ago, are bewildering. But to Bendigo alone
has been reserved the honour of standing up for
Jack Falstaff, with none of the humour by which
Jack has kept the world simmering for the last two
or three hundred years.
Here is the portion of Mr. Rusden’s
“Histoiw of New Zealand” of which Mr. Bryce
the N.Z. Native Minister, complained in his
speech, and in respect to which he jhas intimated
his intention of proceeding against Mr. Rusden
for libel:— “Lieutenant
Bryce, who was in after years Native Minister, dis-
tinguished himself. Some women and young
children emerged from a pah to hunt pigs. Lieu-
tenant Bryce and Sergeant Maxwell of the Kai
Iwi Cavalry, dashed upon them, and cut them down
gleefully and with ease. This exploit will be
looked for in vain in Mr. Gudgeon’s book, which
records a rash and unfortunate affair in which,
subsequently (December 38th), Sergeant Maxwell,
riding up to Titokowaru’s pah, Tauranga-ike, was
shot. But the treatment of the children was not
unknown. Dr. Featherston, the Superintendent
of the Province of Wellington, expressed his
horror ; Rangihiwinui declared that he would not
have joined the local forces if he had thought
them capable of such acts. He earned thereby
the hatred of Bryce, who, long afterwards, when
Native Minister, dismissed Rangihiwinui from
office. Bryce earned among the Maoris a title
which will cling to him. They called him ltohwru,
the murderer.” As already stated, Mr. Bryce pro-
nounces all this to be an infamous lie.
A most sensational divorce case, mysteri-
ous hints concerning the horror of which have
appeared in telegrams to our daily papers, has just
been decided in the Adelaide Supreme Court, the
cause cttebre being that of Morier v. Morier. There
were two co-respondents named in the petition,
which was at the suit of Dr. Morier, a gentleman
well-known in South Australia. One was a groom
who had been in the petitioner’s employ; the other
was the notorious Dr. Horton, who iigured so pro-
minently in the life-assurance conspiracy cases,
and who is at present “ putting in his time ” in that
rural retreat, the Yatala Labour Prison, for his
misdeeds in connection therewith. Mrs. Morier is
a lady who possesses an income of her own, is rather
good-looking, and comes from a llrst-rate family in
Scotland. Kver since she was “ fixed ” for life to
the doctor, she has evinced a morbid desire for the
love of the other sex, and it appears that this
“love,” in more instances than one, assumed a
practical form. Mrs. Morier, it was adduced, was
addicted to drink, and, when under the influence
of liquor, acted in a manner altogether too shock-
ing to particularise—so shocking that it cannot
even be hinted at. The manner in which she gave
her evidence in court showed that she literally
revelled in her wanton amusements; and there is
no knowing how far she might have gone if the
Judge had not cut her short in her disgusting
narrative in reference to a question of condona-
tion. The counsel for the doctor considered that
they had no necessity for proceeding with the case
in which Skelton was co-respondent, and accord-
ingly struck him out of the record, the evidence in
regard to Horton being all that was wanted. His
Honor Judge Boucaut, who conducted the case,
said he would report the adultery proved to the
Full Court. The first day of the trial the public
and the Press were excluded, but scathing leaders
in the daily journals (the holy “bosses” of
them no doubt yearning for particulars) the next
morning had the effect of making his Honor alter
his determination. The case is undoubtedly the
most filthy that has ever occurred in South Aus-
tralia, and it can hardly be conceived that a woman
with the birth and education of the respondent
could perform acts to equal which we should have
to plunge into the dregs of the Satyricon of
Petronius.
Sir Bryan O’Loghlen, ex-Premier of Vic-
toria, is, so saith rumour, in pecuniary difficulties.
After forming his Government he speculated in
mining shares, and was hit very hard indeed. Tom
Bent, his Minister for Railways, is still faithful,
and has started a subscription to put him straight;
but the stated object is to “ recognize his ability as
a statesman, his gentlemanly mien, and his services
to the country.” When he was first introduced to
politics he was elected for North Melbourne as a
supporter of Sir James M'Culloch. Afterwards he
was rejected, and as a consolation he was appointed
Crown Prosecutor, the only position he was ever
successful in. On the death of his brother, Sir
Coleman of that ilk, he came into the baronetcy and
family estates (the latter mortgaged to the hilt),
and was returned to the Imperial Parliament by
his brother’s constituents as member for Clare.
This is where his nobility steps in. He “ sacrificed”
his (mortgaged) estates, his seat in the Commons,
and his Crown Prosecutorship (at £BOO a year), first
for a Land-Tax Commissionership at £lOOO, and
then for the Attorney-Generalship at £l7OO per
annum, the ultimate object of his ambition being
a Judgeship at £3OOO, which dodged him in a most
provoking manner. While Berry and Pearson
were home as an Embassy, Sir Bryan was Chief
Secretary, and made some huge mistakes. However,
he is not a bad fellow, socially, can sing and play
well, and is loyal to himself and to Dunville. The
subscriptions now total £l6OO, but they want £6OOO,
and don’t they wish they may get it!
A Ballarat citizen has once more discovered
the secret of perpetual motion. He is keeping it
dark for the present, until he obtains patent rights
over the other continents. ■ But it is not easy to
keep a matter like this quiet. A good many useful
things have been found out up Ballarat way. For
dummying land or salting a mine there are men
there who need not be ashamed to take the chair at
any meeting, or accept the “billy” in any company.
Hundreds of old Ballarat men can take you to
where three-ounce-to-the-tub stuff was left by the
early diggers (“they didn’t know how to save the
gold then”) and hasn’t been touched since. Even
in Sandhurst, where children do not cut their eye-
teeth nearly so soon, there are numbers of antique
diggermen who for an insignificant pour-boire will
show you where nineteen-pennyweight stone was
left twenty years ago because “ it would not pay
at the time.” We recognize these men, and love
them. They live a lonely and frugal life, whose
chief aim is to confide to casual strangers, under
vows of the most honourable secrecy, where
fortunes are lying just for the picking up. Oh, and
it’s for Ballarat Major Smith sits. And C. E. Jones
represented it formerly. What a number of
pleasant recollections these names call up! What
a time the “ Major” had when a stroke of his pen
put barmaids and other nice people to instruct and
wallop the young idea of Victoria! One’s mouth
waters at it. And C. E. Jones and the mint sauce,
and the . Well, Ballarat, it is really about time
you woke up and started something fresh. “ Per-
petual motion” is about the only thing you want to
set you on your legs again.
At the meeting held in the Melbourne
Town Hall to oppose the opening of the Museum
Gallery on Sunday, the chief opponents were Mr.
Ormond, Mr. Mirams, and Mr. Harper. Mr.
Ormond is rich enough, so he has said, to live on
the interest of the interest of his interest, and still
endow colleges. His name is widely known for
liberality, but we praise it not so much for its
relative proportion to his income, in which regard
he is behind thousands, as for its prominence
among his fellow millionaires. But his views of
these matters are of the Manse mansey, and he
was bound to be there. Mr. Harper harps ever-
lastingly on the Calvinistic harp for political pur-
Eoses, and his footing in West Bourke is just
arely sustained by intiuential men of that kidney.
Of little Mirams’s theological views there is no re-
cord; but as they are flexible enough to enable
him to figure as a hero to the Collingwood yokels,
we have no doubt he sports a big gilt-edged book
of psaums down through the Fitzroy Gardens,
when the gong sounds eleven from St. Jude’s
belfry. On the other side are George Higinbotham,
with his great three-storey forehead and pure and
honourable life; Bishop Moorhouse, one of the
few men who, like Vaughan, just prevent men of
culture from classifying clergymen in general
with the bonzes of the josshouse; and lastly,
Charles Strong. On the one side appear bats and
doleful creatures, flapping from their mouldy
wings the dust and cobwebs that have settled on
them from the crumbling rafters of some tumble-
down spire of ancient superstition. From the
other side comes the cheery note of young, new
life, springing forth to carol the dawn.
Scarcely an individual who ever reads the
newspapers but has chuckled and gasped over
those inimitable yarns from the American papers
about the “Trotting Horse Reporter”—as cele-
brated throughout civilization as the “ dodgasted”
Spoopendyke, or the bad boy who gets confiden-
tial with the grocery man. But few are aware that
these screaming stories are really written by “a
friend of Maud S.” They are the work of H.
Teneyck White, sporting reporter of the Chicago
Tribune. And the vision of ethereal loveliness,
with pearly tears suffusing her azure eyes, that
used to come and stand timidly in the door of the
sanctum, and ask “Is the sentiment editor in?”
wasn’t such a shadowy creature after all; for to
just such an angel, only a few weeks back, was the
“Trotting Horse Reporter” married. The lady
was Miss Fanny Driscoll, of Milwaukee, herself a
smart and witty writer and a brilliant poet. When
the affair became known, a graceless wag on a
rival paper thought the chance too good to throw
away, and perpetrated an imaginary account of
the honeymoon in imitation of the bridegroom’s
own style of writing:—“lt was Gwendolyn Ma-
haffy’s marriage day. She had just been married
toj the horse-reporter, and the mansion of the
eighth Duke ol Milwaukee was ablaze with the
youth and beauty of the town. With rose-red lips
parted slightly to show the teeth gleaming like
ivory in her beautiful mouth, Gwendolyn looked
proudly happy by the side of her husband, as the
bright December sun shone through the huge
antique window, and broke upon her golden hair
in a thousand ripples. Her dress was a marvel
of dead white Ottoman silk and rose-point
duchess lace. The court train was finished
with a full Russian ruche, tucked on with pen-
dants of cut crystal. The front was cut in battle-
ments that revealed plaitings of satin encrusted
with crystal and tinsel. The tabliere was draped
with a forty-inch flounce, caught up on the left
side with an immense barb of brilliants. The cor-
sage was covered with diamonds and Baroness de
Rothschild roses •; she wore a demi-veil half-hiding
her oval creamy face, and she carried a fan, a mass
of lace and Ceylon pearls. One by one the guests
paid their respects and departed, last among them
being Beryl M’Murty and Aristides Mulcahey, the
bridesmaid and best man. At leng'th the bride and
groom were left alone ; and when he had encircled
her waist with his arm, he paused, and asked, in
tones choked with emotion : “ Would you do any-
thing I should ask of you, love ?” She nestled her-
self against his manly breast, and murmured
softly : “ Why, darling, you know I would ! What
is it?” He leaned over her, his face betraying his
firm resolve, and his lips almost touching her
beautiful hair, as he hissed into her ear’the baleful
words : “ Promise me to write no more poetry.”
Without raising her head, the beautiful girl
slipped, limp and senseless, from his arms, and fell
on the floor with with a dull, sickening thud.
Laughing sardonically, he rolled a cigarette
between his high-bred, taper fingers, and said “ I
have knocked her out in four rounds.”


Mr. Justioe Williams, the youngest of the
Victorian Supreme Court judges, is one of the
most popular men in the Southern colony. He has
never held a seat in Parliament, which to a certain
extent, no doubt, accounts for the favour with
which he is regarded, but the major portion,
perhaps, accrued to him on account of his enthu-
siastic patronage of athletic sports. He is vice-
president of the Victorian Rowing Association,
and president of the M.R.C., and is to be seen at
every regatta. On one occasion, before his eleva-
tion to the bench, he prefaced his address to a
jury with the remark that he felt he would be
unable that day to do justice to his client. He had
just seen in the Argus an announcement of the
defeat of Edward Trickett by Hanlan: had the
result been otherwise, he would have felt so
much happier that he would not have doubted his
ability to win the case. He recently stated that
he walked 20 miles a day for exercise, and one
morning, having to attend the assize court at
Sandhurst, he trudged in to that town from a dis-
tance of 20 miles before breakfast. He was the
Judge who tried the libel case De Mestre v. The
Age, and took a most liberal view of the law in
favour of the paper ; though he also presided at
the trial in which the jury, by his direction, gave a
heavy verdict against The Argus in an action
brought by H. R. Williams, ex-member for Sand-
hurst, who is now contesting the seat against
Angus Mackay, of the Sydney D. T. The Judge
and Mr. Purves, the present leader of the Victorian
criminal bar, were regular frequenters of Jem
Mace’s private boxing saloon. Judge Williams is
by no means the worst amateur boxer in the
Southern colony. As he is young (40), and very
ambitious, a great deal more will probably be
heard of him.
Mr. Joseph Stirling—or, as he is more
commonlv styled, “ Joe” Stirling—the seconder of
the vote of thanks to Redmond at his lecture in
Toowoomba (Q.) on the “Irish National League,”
is no ordinary man. He is a clear-headed, practical
Scotchman, a leading Presbyterian, prominent
temperance man, and a fluent and effective public
speaker. He drops in at Groom’s (the local
member’s) periodical addresses to his constituents,
just to put that versatile politician through his
facings, and to point out certain little discrepancies
between his promises and his performances. Well,
at the meeting in question he clinched Redmond’s
arguments with a telling speech against land-
lordism and in favour of Home Rule, and wound
up with a satirical allusion to Governor Kennedy’s
views on the land question as expounded by His
Excellency at a banquet held in Toowoomba a few
days previously. Joe” knows Sir Hercules
Robinson’s masterly orations by heart, and con-
sequently can see little or no merit in those
graceful little commonplaces with which Sir
Arthur Kennedy criticises a bow or returns thanks
for a banquet. As a politician, “Joe” out-Red-
monds Redmond, and laughs to scorn—we grieve
to say—Mr. Fronde on ‘ r The Uses of a Landed
Gentry.” As might be expected, some of the
local Henry Harry Cookes look coldly on him,
taboo him in fact, for the prominent part he took
at the Redmond meeting. There is in Toowoomba
a Parliamentary Debating Class, in which “Joe” is
leader of the Opposition, and, at a recent meeting
of this august body, some ultra-loyalist made
“ Joe’s” conduct the subject of a venomous attack,
in which the complicity-cum-sedition fad was used
with great effect. The majority, however, sided
with “Joe,” and the incipient Parkes got severely
mauled for his attempt to extinguish freedom of
speech.
William Cullen Bryant, the poet, thus
wrote to his mother describing his marriage
“ Dear Mother, I hasten to send you the melan-
choly intelligence of what has lately happened to
me. Early on the evening of the eleventh day of
the present month I was at a neighbouring house
in this village. Several people of both sexes were
assembled in one of the apartments, and three or
four others, with myself, in another. At last came
in a little elderly gentleman—pale, thin, with a
solemn countenance, pleuritic voice, hooked nose,
and hollow eyes. It was not long before we were
summoned to attend in the apartment where he
and the rest of the company were gathered. We
went in and took our seats; the little elderly
gentleman with the hooked nose prayed, and we all
stood up. When he had finished, most of us sat
down. The gentleman with the hooked nose then
muttered certain cabalistical expressions, which
I was too much frightened to remember, but I
recollect that at the conclusion I was given to
understand that I was married to a young lady by
the name of Frances Fairchild, whom I perceived
standing by my side, and whom I hope in the course
of a few months to have the pleasure of introducing
to you as your daughter-in-law, which is a matter
of some interest to the poor girl, who has neither
father nor mother in the world. I have not
“played the fool and married an Ethiop for the
jewel in her ear.” I looked only for goodness of
heart, an ingenuous and affectionate disposition, a
good understanding, etc., and the character of my
wife is too frank and single-hearted to suffer me to
fear that I may be disappointed. Ido myself
wrong; I did not look for these nor any other
qualifies, but they trapped me before I was aware,
and now I am married in spite of myself. Thus the
current of destiny carries us all along. None but
a madman would swim against the stream, and
none but a fool would exert himself to swim with
it. The best way is to float quietly with the tide.
So much for philosophy—now to business. Your
affectionate son, William.”
A little while ago, Miss Chamberlain, of
Ohio, had the distinction of having succeeded Mrs.
Langtry in the platonic admiration of the Prince
of Wales. She is not so beautiful, but she has the
American freedom of manners, and it was this
that first charmed H.R.H. A man who is so un-
fortunate as to be born a prince is a martyr to
conventionality, and when he finds some one who
treats him as though he-were no holier than any
other man, he is refreshed. The Prince of Wales
saw Miss Chamberlain at a ball, and he was pleased
with her appearance, and sent to know if she
would honour him with a dance. “Dance with
the Prince of Wales! indeed I will. Who wouldn’t
be delighted to dance with the Prince of Wales ?”
The message was delivered as it was sent, and the
prince was charmed. Even the princess sent word
to have the American brought to her. “If the
Princess of Wales wants to know me, let her come
tome; I’m not going to her,” said Miss Chamber-
lain. This message was not delivered. If it had
been, it is pretty certain that the charming prin-
cess would have said at once, as she did later on,
when Miss C. treated her with unroyal familiarity
—“The impertinent woman!” As it was not deli-
vered at the time, however, and Miss Chamberlain
and her friend Miss Work were invited to Sandring-
ham, they went there, and had a “jolly time” with
the princess. Then Albert Edward met them at
Homburg, and they had a jollier time without the
princess. That’s what did it. Alexandra conceived
the strange prejudice that her husband shouldn’t
chaperone two single girls—probably because he
didn’t know enough ; and so when she heard that
ladies there, who were perhaps jealous of his small
attentions to Miss Chamberlain, had not much to
say to them, but a good deal to say of them, she
concluded the lively fair-haired American was a
“minx.” So she cut her, and mother and daugh-
ter received no invitation to the last Sandringham
ball; so the lady who “ delighted to dance with
the Prince of Wales” can travel back to America
as soon as she likes.
It is pretty generally known that not only
does the Princess Louise henpeck her husband—
who, by the wity, is also considerably “sat upon”
by her brothers—but that her general behaviour is
by no means such as is expected from the nobility,
let alone royalty. As a fact, we are likely to have
a better chance of really knowing out here some of
the clever Princess’s little peculiarities than folks
at home, for the English papers are careful to
suppress anything that savours of the “ unbecom-
ing.” Now.it is true that,notwithstanding the Queen
trained her children well, the Princess Louise has,
through her thoroughly unconventional and
independent style, given a deal of pabulum to the
gossips. That romantic episode about Canon
Duckworth, whom the Princess it is believed really
loved, and with whom her name became coupled,
rendered it expedient to adopt measures to allay
the excess of public interest which had been
excited in the prospective match; so a more
eligible young man was looked out. Louise was
worried into marrying him, and the united pair
were shipped off to Canada. The Marquis of Lome
had never been suspected of any especial fitness
tor governing a large colony, and the two in their
official capacity have not been a particular
success; but the Queen conceived that a few years’
foreign residence might not be without benefit
to her sturdy and somewhat angular-minded
daughter, so the plan was tried. It only met
with indifferent results. At first, the Princess was
given to sudden returns, and she’d curiously appear
at Court when least expected. The last time she
made one of her playful “ drops-in ” from Canada
on her mamma, she was ordered to return instanter
and do the honours of the Governor-General’s
house as they should be done by the Governor-
General s wife, even if she did happen to be a Prin-
cess. Well, she went, but she didn’t stay much at
home then, but started for a nice little pleasure
excursion round the Dominion, overland to the
Pacific, and back. Altogether, it’s thought the
Princess rather “ scored ” off Her Majesty. If she
hoes not do as she likes, she goes pretty near it;
and she does things that, if she were anybody else
but the Marchioness of Lome and Her Most Gra-
cious Majesty’s daughter, would at the least be
regarded as eccentric. When in England, she
travels about by train, quite alone, makes visits by
herself to country-houses for a week or two, plays
billiards, flirts a good deal with good-looking young
Hoblemen ; enjoys a good glass of wine as much as
anybody, and never goes to ohurch if she can pos-
sibly avoid it. In short, were she not a Princess,
onemight feel inclined to say she was disposed to
be rapid.” Comparatively independent of her
mother, and completely so of her husband, it is
evident she is not likely to pay much attention to
anyone else. Considering that Lord Lome’s father,
the Duke of Argyll, who is a sort of Ducal Rradical,
and goes as far as he dares with the doctrines of his
party, controls him from one side, and this excess-
ively self-willed young lady makes things lively for
him on the other, we’re afraid the Marquis’ lot is
not a happy one.
The departure of Sir Arthur Kennedy, ex-
Governor of Queensland, at the expiration of his
term, was attended by every manifestation of
good will on the part of the colonists. All classes
joined to give the retiring Governor a loving fare-
well. No one would during the first twelve months
of Sir Arthur’s governorship have been justified
in predicting anything of the kind for his de-
parture. Sir Arthur became exceedingly un-
popular with the working-class immediately on his
arrival, when it transpired that he had brought a
retinue of Chinese servants with him from Hong-
kong. The Chinese fever, which like the inter-
mittent fever of the Gulf country, never entirely
leaves the patient alone, happened to be pretty hot
just at the time, and the introduction of “ leprous
Mongols” by the Governor was regarded as a
deliberate defiance of popular sentiment. Of
course, it was nothing of the kind, but anyone who
had attempted to demonstrate that Sir Arthur
couldn’t have foreseen that the fit would be on
when he arrived, would have, just then, as little
chance of reaching his hearers’ intelligence, as any
one who, a month ago, would have had in demon-
strating to the satisfaction of Hicks, or a Herald
man, that Parnell had not been proved to
2/3 — -c tz A 1 {7~o^
0~V\ t f / ‘z Zo ZZ< s ZcZu 2) ,
Clsu\ AZo /% vts\ j
/u. S* 2- ~
/c 7 1 aZc 2/ J/q 5 b fZlyf&V
have something to do with the Phoenix
Park assassinations. Having thus fortuitously
set the working classes against him, poor Sm
Arthur followed up this inauspicious commence-
ment by desperately affronting Society in its most
sensitive point. We allude to Society’s bread-
basket. It had been the custom of all Governors,
since Queensland became a separate colony, to give
a ball at Government House on the Queen’s Birth-
day. This ball was the fete of the year to numbers
of people. Generally about two score of Brisbane
people,and the little contingent of squattocrats who
happened to be in town from time to time, consti-
tuted the circle of the Governor’s acquaintance,
and the regular habitues of Government House on
reception days. At the Governor’s occasional
dinners and dances, the range would be extended
somewhat. But oil the Birthday Ball, “ everybody
wot was hanybody” expected, and as a rule, re-
ceived, an invitation. An average attendance at
such balls would be 1200 persons. The company
was miscellaneous; and ir your tailor were in a
large way of business, or in the Brisbane Municipal
Council, you might meet him in one corner and
your milkman in the next, on the strength of his
being a considerable landowner (paddocks for the
cows). Evening dress for gentlemen was expected
and generally worn. But etiquette was not over-
strained on these occasions. Mr. Chalks wore his
black frock coat —the one in which he spouted
gospel on Sundays in Little Bethel. Mr. Snipley,
of course, was super-perfect, his figured waistcoat
a splendid vision, and his shirt-front a perfect
Siberia as to extent. But Mr. Chalks had no gloves,
and his hands dominated his whole turn-out, while
Mr. Cleaver, the “wholesale” butcher—who had
slaughter yards on Kedron Brook, and fattened
pigs on offal with a view to the production of
prime dairy-fed pork—was in evening dress, in-
deed, but wore No. 12 blucher boots. 'We won’t
say aught about "the ladies. Girls do certainly
adapt themselves to circumstances more readily
than men. Anyhow, the Birthday Ball is a stupend-
ous institution in Brisbane, and enables the most
unlikely people to remark incidentally, any time
during the ensuing ten months (the next two
devoted to anxious and breathless intriguing for
an invitation to the approaching ball) to amuse
some people and exasperate their own circle of
rivals and emulators, by casually working into
their conversation reminiscences of “ Wen Brisket
and me was at Gov’ment ’Ouse, Sir Harthur ’e
says to me, says ’e .” At these balls, the Gover-
nor used to “ display a splendid hospitality,” as we
used to write in the Courier next morning. That
is to say, he used to let a contract for suppers and
refreshments at so much (say) 6s. 6d. per head, with
attendance thrown in; and simultaneously used to
order from local wine and spirit merchants several
gross of the “extra superfine” champagne and
claret of commerce-the very best public-house
brands, which nearly everybody likely to be pie-
sent was sure to know and respect as being a
shilling per bottle, or, perchance, half-a-crown,
dearer than merely common wine. So everybody
guzzled or nibbled, and swelled or sipped as
suited their inclination; and what made things
smooth and pleasant at the buffets, was the fact
that the attendants had been rounded up from all
the pubs, in the city, and were well known to a
large proportion of the gentlemen present, who
were thus enabled to accost individuals figuring
for the night as belonging to the Vioe-Regal
menage, with an off-hand easy familiarity, by name,
as “Charles, some champagne for this lady,” or,
“ Trotter, some of them cakes.” Sir Arthur Ken-
nedy, at his first Birthday Ball, scandalised every-
body by providing the meagrest commissariat
ever known. Sandwiches and coffee were about
the staple, and not enough of these. The guests
viewed the provisions with dismay, declared them-
selves famished, and after the fMe raised a howl
of disgust and indignation. Sir Arthur, at that
crisis, was decidedly the most unpopular Governor
who had ever ruled Queensland. In succeeding
years, however, he repaired the omission of his
first f6te, and, being really a gentleman of true
kindness and unaffected good nature, the Queens-
landers learned in time to recognise his sterling
qualities, and to admire him for them. Thus it
came to pass that the dismal commencement of his
reign was succeeded by a bright conclusion.
• • t
The executors of the late Dean Backhaus
(R.C.) of Sandhurst, have paid in £6142 as probate
duty on his estate.... William Mills, aged 94, who
died at Emerald Hill (Vic.), leaves 13 children, 63
grand children, and 64 great grand children. A
useful colonist....A Cooma solicitor has succeeded
to a fortune of £30,000. ...Ivo Bligh sailed by the
Rosetta for London, last week. It is reported that
the ship carried no boats. The davits were re-
quired for Ivo’s stock of shoes England’s
wealthiest baronet, says an English paper, is Sir
John Ramsden, of Byram, Yorkshire, who has
£140,000 a year. W. J. Clarke, of Melbourne, who
is one of England’s baronets, has as much or more
than that income—probably more.... The third
daughter of the late Hon. J. Bowie Wilson died a
few days after her father. She had long been ill of
consumption... .The will of the late Martin Shana-
han (father-in-law of Sir Patrick Jennings) has
been proved under £173,000. ..Mr. Bossley Bur-
dekin’s will was proved under £52,00)....At
the recent marriage of Mr. Charles Bright and
Mrs. Annie Pillars, Mr. A. B. Camm, the Unitarian
Minister, was requested to act as registrar on the
occasion as a friend of both parties. This act that
gentleman kindly performed. The marriage was
one of civil contract as required by law, and there
was no religious ceremony, as such would have
been opposed to the principles held by the con-
tracting parties—An ante-mortem photograph of
the deceased Rev. Norbert Quirk, was taken by
Mr. Riisfeldt, of Sydney, while the dead priest’s
body was “lying in state.” Professor Walker, who
was drowned in Auckland harbour, lost his life
through the capsizing of an open boat. Professor
Tucker, his companion, was rescued in an in-
sensible condition. Deceased, whose body has not
been recovered, was single, and but twenty-six
years of age. He was a fellow of Queen’s College,
and Second Wrangler in 1879.
• • •
A descendant of the famous Portuguese
navigator, Magellan, appeared the other day in a
Paris Police Court, and apologised for having to
detain the magistrate—explaining that he was
“Jeronimo Collao de Maghalaens de Gama Monez
Vellasco Sarmento Alarcao Bulhoes de San Maria
de Salema.” Passanante, who tried to kill King
Humbert, in 1878, is fastened to the wall of a nearly
dark cell by a five-foot chain riveted to his ankle.
He has become imbecile The Countess de Bardi,
a niece of the Comte de Chambord, recently urged
her uncle to re-enter Paris on horseback, sur-
rounded by Legitimist cavaliers, and wearing the
white plume ot Henry IV. “My niece,” he said,
“you speak like a heroine; but it would never do
for the king of France to be arrested by a police-
man and taken to the lock-up.” Mr. Gladstone
hates tobacco but drinks several glasses of wine
daily. Mark Twain doesn’t drink, but has smoked
immoderately for thirty-eight years. Anthony
Trollope constantly had a cigar in his mouth. He
died. James Payne smokes the whole time he is
engaged in composition, and has done so for thirty
years. He likewise drinks claret and champagne.
The late Charles Darwin smoked two cigarettes,
drank one glass of wine, and constantly snuffed
every day A daughter of Napoleon I. and of a
young lady of noble family whom Napoleon met
at Cologne in 1811, has just died in that city. She
was known as the Countess Falkenberg, and for
the last thirty years of her life had been so poor
that she was compelled to work as a dressmaker,
and was buried at the expense of the parish.
Another of our youthful beliefs “gone bung!”
Our teacher told us Napoleon was a kind of human
iceberg, and that’s why he became a great man...
Mr. Burnand, editor of London Punch, has been
twice married, and has 14 children. If we have
ever spoken disparagingly of the gentleman’s
humour, we beg his pardon. He is working
against great odds—A Fenian-American paper
has printed “faithful likenesses” of the 21 men
committed for the Phoenix Park murders. If the
portraits published are in truth faithful likenesses,
it is difficult to see how any one of the subjects
can escape the gallows. The only wonder is that
so many heavy villains were concerned in the
murder of only two men. Each one of them looks
as if he were good for at least six murders on his
own account—Here is the whole of one of the
late Baron Martin’s summings-up Gentlemen
of the jury, you have heard the evidence and the
speeches of the learned counsel. If you believe
the old woman in red, you will find the prisoner
guilty; if you do not believe her, you will find
him not guilty.” And here is all he said to a noto-
rious criminal whom he had remanded for sen-
tence:—“Prisoner at the bar, you’re a very bad
man. You’ll have ten years or it— Miss Margaret
Emmett, niece of the Irish patriot, has recently
died in New York at the ripe age of ninety. Her
father, brother of the “ only ” Emmett, had several
interviews with Napoleon, on whom he pressed the
invasion of Ireland, but Buony was too busy at the
time. Otherwise, of course, we'd all bo French-
men now—The lady who became notorious as
having been charged with poisoning Mr. Bravo,
the barrister, at Balham Priory, Surrey, in April,
1876, died on April 3rd Herbert Spencer’s health
is failing terribly; he now declines all invitations.
... .The oldest (?) inhabitant of the Dominion died
on March 13th at Lake Magnetic. She was an Eng-
lish-woman, named Mary Hugh Graves, and had
reached 117 years of age.
The Furniture Column.
For the sum of £3OO prompt net oash,
You ean Furnish a House as follows:
DRAWING ROOM.
Handsome walnut suite, richly upholstered
green, crimson, or blue and gold cotelaine
Large size walnut trichord pianoforte, by
Bord
Walnut music stool, to match suite ...
Walnut inlaid spiral-leg table
Walnut inlaid sideboard with marble slab,
and plate glass back and doors
Rich gilt frame oval-top pier glass ...
Walnut inlaid music canterbury ...
Walnut inlaid corner whatnot
Pair of large size oil paintings ...
Handsome glass centre piece...
Gipsy table
Two occasional chairs
Jardiniere
Superior marble clock ...
Suite of vases
Duplex lamp
Gilt cornice for window
Pair lace curtains
Pair curtain holders ...
Bronzed fender
Set Are irons
Coal scuttle .
Brussels carpet, choice of pretty patterns
Large Axminster hearth rug ...
Pair hassocks
Wool mat
HALL.
Hat and umbrella stand ...
Pair of hall chairs
Hall oilcloth
Door mat
Scraper ”*
DINING ROOM.
Massive leather dining room suite
Telescope table, 7 feet
Five feet sideboard with cellaret
Pier glass, 40 x 40
Book case
Dinner waggon ... ...
Set papier machd trays ...
Dining room lamp
Black marble clock.. ... ...
Pair handsome lustres
SESS/MSI** pta '’- a “ 4 b ™ oke “
Curtain bands
Fender and irons ...
Chintz pattern oilcloth, or carpet
Axminster hearth rug ...
Axminster door slip ... ”,
BEDROOM No. 1.
H stead° me llowered four-post tubular bed-
Set mosquito curtains
Pair best palliasses ..
Horsehair mattress..
Kapok bolster
Pair feather pihows
Full size toilet pair, large swing glass, and
marble top washstand ..
Rich double toilet set
Cut glass caraffe
Table toilets ..
Twist towel horse ..
Plate glass door wardrobe ”
Large seven-door cedar chest of drawers
Largo arm rocking chair
Two bedroom chairs
Tapestry carpet, choice of patterns’.'.
« BEDROOM No. 2.
Pair Ipalliases 1 palliases &r bedstoad > head & foot rails
Flock mattress \.
Flock bolster
Pair feather pillows
Large chest drawers
Pairthree feet mahogany toilets
White and gold toilet set..
Fern water caraffe ..
Towel horse
Folding chair.. .!
Two C. S. chairs ..
1 ancy or white matting for room
BEDROOM No. 3.
Three feet half-tester bedstead
Pair paillasses 10s. (id., mattress 10s. 6d. ..
Bolster 35.. feather pillow ss. ..
Cedar chest drawers "
Towel rail washstand 12s od, Toilet set 10s 6d
Water caraffe Is 3d, toilet table 10s ..
Toilet table 7s, C.S. chair 5s
Matting ” "
SERVANT’S ROOM.
Half-tester bedstead
Pair palliasses
Mattress 9s 6d, bolster 2s 6d
Flock pillow
Washstand and granite toilet set
Toilet table 7s 6d, toilet glass 3s 6d
Chair 2s 6d, matting 2s 6a
KITCHEN.
Dresser with drawer
Round wire, or pine meat safe
Table with drawer 12s 6d, two chairs 7s
Kitchen clock
Dinner service
Pink band and gold tea and breakfast set
Electro-plated tea and coffee service
Electro-plated revolving cruet
Set dish covers
Bread platter and knife
Set banded jugs 6s 6d, pair cut salts 3s
„ Suite of engraved glassware, as follows
Set of four decanters
12 tumblers 10s, 12 sherry wines 6s ! ’
12 port wines 6s, 12 soda glasses 10s . ■
12 custard glasses 12s, 12 jelly glasses 12s
Cutlery as follows:
12 dinner knives 15s, 12 dessert knives 12s
12 dinner forks 12s, 12 dessert forks 10s
Two pair carvers 11s, steel 2s ..
Four tablespoons 4s, 12 dessert spoons 10s
12 tea spoons 6s, 12 egg spoons 6s
Two salt spoons 2s, mustard spoon Is
Two sauce ladles 7s, soup ladle 5s 6d
Knife box 2s 6d, plate basket 5s
Glass water jug
Two bedroom candlesticks
Kettle 8s 6d, boiler 18s, stew-pan 5s
Four saucepans 11s 9d, frying-pan 2s'
Gridiron Is 6d, teapot 2s, coffee pot 2s
Tea caddy Is, canisters 3s 6d, colander 2s
Wash basin 2s, dipper Is, tubs ss, 6s 6d, 7s 6
Buckets Is 9d, 2s, patent washer 5s
Two tin candlesticks . >
Baking dishes Is 3d, Is 9d..
Cake tins Is 3d, Is 9d
Bread grater 9d, Pepper caster 6d
Flour dredge 9d, Gravy strainer Is 3d
N utmeg grater 3d, Set skewers Is
Kitchen spoon
Nest of housemaid’s boxes
Paste board and roller
Set Mrs. Pott’s irons
Ironing board 3s 9d, Pair bellows 2s 6d
Banister brush Is 9d, Toilet watercan 4s
Dust pan
Knife board and polish
Millet broom ..
Hair broom ..
Scrub brush ..
Set shoe brushes
Set black lead brushes
7 0
1
1
13 0
14 0
12 0
3 (i
12 0
7 6
4 6
3 0
17 0
13 9
5 6
6 6
12 0
8 9
1 6
3 0
3 0
1 3
2 0
1 3
6
3 0
3 6
6 9
6 3
5 9
1 3
2 3
1 6
4 6
1 6
4 6
3 6
£3OO 0 0
Write for a copy of our Furnishing Gulda.
Campbell Brothers,
Royal Furnishing Arcade,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT THE.KOYAL UJJSL.
1 7 6
1 3 6
19 6
7 6
4 2 6
3 10 0
1 15 0
110
1 15 0
6 6
9 6
10 0
16 0
16 0
14 0


n IHEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Management of
I Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & Musgrove.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
On SATURDAY EVENING, 19th May, will be
produced, on a most complete scale.
ELAND HOLT’S NOVELTY,
MANKIND.
Characters by Eland Holt’s Dramatic Company,
including Mr. Alfred Dampier, Mrs. Blanche
Stammers, and other popular and selected artistes.
Every scene new, designed and painted by
George Gordon.
Acting-Manager for Mr. Holt, W. H. Seagraye.
O
E It
HOUSE
Lessee, W. J. Wilson. Sub-Lessee, A. T. Donning.
Stage Manager, T. B. Appleby.
Treasurer, J. F. Goldsworthy.
INCREASING
(THIRD WEEK I
(THIRD WEEK!
•KSVisnHXNa
MANOLA. MANOLA. MANOLA.
MANOLA. MANOLA. MANOLA.
MANOLA. MANOLA. MANOLA.
BALLET OF NATIONS!
BALLET OF NATIONS!
BALLET OF NATIONS!
THIS and EVERY EVENING.
Admission—Dress Circle, 55.; Stalls, 35.; Pit, Is.
Box plan at Huenerbicn’s Mnsic 'Warehouse,
George-street, where seats may be secured for any
date in advance. Stalls and Pit tickets obtainable
at Stone’s, tobacconist, next Theatre.
Secretary to A. T. Dunning, A. N. Hallifax.
North shore rowing club,
ANNUAL BALL.
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY,
Friday, Ist June, 1883.
Patron: His Excellency the Governor.
Stewards :
lion. J. P. Abbott, M.L.A. M. M’Mahon, Esq.
Hon. G. R. Dibbs, M.L.A. C. J. Roberts, Esq.,
Hon. G. Thornton, M.L.C. M.L.A.
Commodore Erskine, R.N. Carl L. Sahl, Esq., Con.
M. M. Dennis, Esq. General for Germany.
T. B. Gaden, Esq. W. H. Tulloh, Esq.
Wm. Laiclley, Esq. James Thompson, Esq.
ROBERT LITTLE,
Hon. Sec.
S T -
GEORGE’S HALL,
MELBOURNE.
The above well-known and popular place of Enter-
tainment is now
TO LET.
Applications for OPEN DATES will bo received
by Mr. .1. C. RAINER, care of Messrs. C. J. & T.
Ham, Auctioneers, Melbourne.
RAINER’S GREAT DIORAMAS
of the
AMERICAN AND TURKISH WARS.
DUNEDIN (5 wooks), Great Success.
CHRISTCHURCH, during May.
WELLINGTON to follow.
A
GRAND F ANCY B A Z A A R,
will be held in
THE PAVILION, PARRAMATTA PARK,
in
AVEEK ENDING MAY 36th, 1883.
PROCEEDS
in aid of
ST. PATRICK’S R.C. CONVENT.
WILLIAM J. FERRIS,
Hon. Sec.
THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL INVESTMENT
AND BUILDING COMPANY (Limited).
Registered under the Companies Act.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO, with power to increase.
BANKo
yd*
E°a?d
DIRECTORS:
W. W. J. O'Reilly, M.D., Chairman: E. Hogben,
Esu., John Nobbs, Esq., G. J. Wells, Esq.
H. G. Swyny, Managing Director.
BANKERS:
> The Oriental Bank, Pitt-street.
SOLICITORS:
Messrs. Norton and Smith, Spring-street.
OFFICES:
309, Pitt-street, Sydney, nearly opposite the Con- |
gregational Church.
The special feature of this Company is the fair-
ness with which both depositors and borrowers are
dealt with. , , , ,
The Company is prepared to make temporary ad-
vances on the deposit of deeds, or to assist, persons
to build, without enforcing upon them the usual
weekly or fortnightly repayments while the build-
ing is in course of erection.
Loans may be repaid at any time, interest being
chargeable upon the actual amount lent, from the
date of loan till the date of repayment only.
Every care has been taken to save the borrower
any urineccessary expense, and to charge him in-
terest only on the amount lent, and not
upon the amount applied for, as is us-
ually the case. Depositors with the Company
receive not only a fair rate of interest for their
money, but will also participate in the profits. This
advantage, which it is only fair that depositors
should receive, has never been afforded them by
any other bank or building society in New South
Wales. , , , _
Depositors may withdraw the whole or part of
their deposits at any time without previous notice,
receiving interest at the rate of 5 percent, per an-
num for the period of deposit.
Interest at the following rates allowed :
Deposits for 12 months .. .. 7 per cent.
~ for 6 ~ .. 0 ~
„ at call „ .5 „
The Oil ices are Open Daily for the receipt and
withdrawal of deposits, as under :—Mondays, 10
a.m. till 9 p.m., other days 10 a.m. till 5 p.m., except
on SATURDAY'S, when the Office will be open
from 10 a.m. till one p.m., and from 7 p.m. till 9 p.m.
for the receipt and withdrawal of deposits.
H. G. SWYNY,
Managing Director.
TO SUJiVEY DRAFTSMEN.
WANTED, Candidates for employment in
above capacity to apply at once to the
Chief Draftsman, or Mr. Peyton, Surveyor-Gene-
ral’s Office, between the hours of 11 a.m. and 1
p.m. daily (Saturdays excepted), from whom in-
formation as to conditions of service and remune-
ration can be obtained.
Surveyor General’s Office,
Sydney, 30th April, 1883.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 30th April, 1883.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR MINERAL
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the
Lessees execute and take delivery of
the undermentioned Mineral Lease within
thirty days from this date, they will be de-
clared void.
JOSEPH P. ABBOTT.
No. 1341; W. Mannel, jun.; Portion No. m.l. 3;
County of Vernon, parish of Andy; 18 acres 2r.
30p.; Appication No. Walcha 3m.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 20th April, 1883.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the
Lesses execute and take delivery of
the undermentioned Gold-mining Leases
within thirty days from this date, they will
be declared void.
JOSEPH P. ABBOTT.
Peel and Uralla Mining District.
No. 380; W. H. Wyatt; Portion No. 15; Nuggetty
Gully, county of Hawes; 4 acres; Application No.
Walcha 15.
No. 381; T. Laurie and another; Portion No. 17;
Nuggetty Gully, county of Hawes; 10 acres; Ap-
plication No. Walcha 17.
No. 383; T. W. Chidlow; Portion N 0.19; Nuggetty
Gully, county of Hawes; 5 acres; Application No.
Walcha 19.
No. 383; B. E. Furnifull and others; Portion No.
18; Nuggetty Gully, county of Hawes; 4 acres;
Application No. Walcha 33.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 24th April, 1883.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR MINERAL
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the
Lesses execute and take delivery of the
undermentioned Mineral Leases within
thiry days from this date, they will be de-
clared void.
JOSEPH P. ABBOTT.
No. 1487; R. W. Walmsley; Portion No. 513;
Counties of Gough and Hardinge, parishes of Her-
bert and Swinton; 30 acres; Application No. Tingha
473.
No. 1515; T. Ranft and others; Portion No. 301;
County of Gough, parish of Herbert; 40acres; Ap-
plication No. Tingha 813.
No. 1551; Ah Yow; Portion No. 333; County of
Hardinge, parish of Cope’s Creek; 30 acres; Appli-
cation No. Tingha 630.
No. 1553; P. Carney and another; Portion No.
105; County of Hardinge, parish of Swinton; 30
acres; Application No. Tingha 639.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 24th April, 1883.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the
Lesses execute and take delivery of the
undermentioned Gold-mining Leases within
thirty days from this date, they will be de-
clared void.
JOSEPH P. ABBOTT.
Bathurst Mining District.
No. 202; W. M'Kenzie and others; Portion No.
192; County of Georgiana, parish of Meglo; 3 acres,
Application No. Tuena 139.
No. 203; E. J. Brookcr land others; Portion No.
119; County of Georgiana, parish of Gillindich;
4 acres; Application No. Tuena 143.
No. 204; W. Inifer and others; Portion No. 120;
County of Georgiana, parish of Gillindich; 2 acres;
Application No. Tuena 144.
No. 205; J. M'Kellar and another; Portion No.
188; County of Georgiana, parish of Meglo; 5 acres;
Application No. Tuena 145.
No. 200; J. M'Kellar and another; Portion No.
187; County of Georgiana, parish of Meglo; 5 acres;
Application No. Tuena 147.
No. 207; W. Chandler and another; Portion No.
190; County of Georgiana, parish of Meglo; 5 acres;
Application No. Tuena 148.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 27th April, 1883.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the
Lessees execute and take delivery of the
undermentioned Gold-mining Leases within
thirtydays from this date, they will be de-
clared void.
JOSEPH P. ABBOTT.
Lachlan Mining District.
No. 116; John A. Sinclair; Portion No. 3; County
of Ashburnham, parish of Collett; 18 acres; Appli-
cation No. Forbes 131.
No. 117; John A. Sinclair; Portion No. 5; County
of Ashburnham, parish of Collett; 12 acres; Appli-
cation No. Forbes 132.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, Ist May, 1883.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR MINERAL
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby [given that unless the
Lessees execute and take delivery of
the undermentioned Mineral Leases within
thirty days from this date, they will be de-
clared void.
JOSEPH P. ABBOTT.
No. 1566; John Booth and others; Portion No.
m.l. 20; County of Sandon, parish of Metz; 40
acres; Application No. Armidale Bi-i4m.
No. 1581; John Bracken and others; Portion No.
m.l. 21; County of Sandon, parish of Metz; 20
acres; Application No. Armidale Bi-12m.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 4th May, 1883.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR MINERAL
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the
Lessees execute and take delivery of
the undermentioned Mineral Leases within
thirty days from this date, they will de-
clared void.
JOSEPH P. ABBOTT.
No. 1491; D. J. Allen and another; Portion No.
231; County of Gough, parish of Clive; 20 acres;
Application No. Tingha 590.
No. 1563; W. Rasmussen and othex-s; Portion No.
66; County of Parry, parish of Piallamore; 80
acres; Application No. Nundle 6m.
No. 1564; J. Maher; Portion No. 27; County of
Parry, parish of Ogunbil; 25 acres; Application
No. Nundle 7m.
No. 1565; J. Fisher and others: Portion No. 67;
County of Parry, parish of Piallamore; 60 acres;
Application No. Nundle Im.
No. 1509; C. Herden and others; Portion No. 65;
County of Parry, parish of Piallamore! 60 acres;
Application No. Nundle im
No. 1570; C. Herden and others; Portion No. 64;
County of Parry, parish of Piallamore; 50 acres;
Application No. Nundle 2m.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 4th May, 1883.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING
LEASES.:
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the
Lessees execute and take delivery of
the undermentioned Gold-mining Leases
within thirty days from this date, they will
be declared void.
JOSEPH P. ABBOTT.
Bathurst Mining District. "
No. 197; Joseph Reed and another; Portion No.
GU 41; County of Westmoreland, parish of Jocelyn;
lacre; Application No. Oberon 33.
No. all; Michael Murphy and others; Portion No.
D 90; County of Bathurst, parish of Dunleary; 5
acres; Application No. Mt. M'Donald 18.
Hunter and Macleay Mining District.
No. 608; J. A. Campbell; Portion No. GD 470;
County of Gloucester, parish of Bindera; 6 acres;
Application No. Copeland 629.
No 609; B. Benjamin and others; Portion No. gd
503; County of Gloucester, parish of Bindera; 10
acres; Application No. Copeland 633.
No. 610; B. Benjamin and others; Portion No. gu
6; County of Gloucester, parish of Bindera; 5
acres; Application No. Copeland 637.
Peed and Uradda Mining District.
No. 273; C. B. Anderson; Portion No. 331; County
of Parry, parish of Nundle; 1 acres; Application
No. Nundle 66.
No. 274; J- R- M'Donald and another; Portion
No. 234; County of Parry, parish of Nundle; 3
acres; Application No. Nundle C 9.
No. 275; D. Lowe and another; Portion No. 230;
County of Parry, parish of Nundle; 6 acres; Ap-
plication No. Nundle 65.
No. 276; W.H. Kennedy; Portion No. 233; County
of Parry, parish of Nundle; 1 acres; Application
No. Nundle 70.
No. 278; A. C. Thompson; Portion No. 227;
County of Parry, parish of Nundle; 3 acres; Appli-
cation No. Nundle 72.
No. 379; J. R. M‘Donald and others; Portion No.
226; County of Parry, parish of Nundle; 3 acres;
Application No. Nundle 73.
No. 284; A. C. Thompson; Portion No. 228;
County of Parry, parish of Nundle; 2 acres; Ap-
plication No. Nundle 74.
Tumut and Adelong Mining District.
No. 128; C. Parrott and another; Portion No. 153;
County of Wynyard, parish of Tarrabandra; 3
acres; Application No. Gundagai 81-3.
J. S. FRY <S& SONS,
Cocoa and Chocolate Manufacturers ,
Bristol strrd. Bom-d-orr.
Sydney Ob: Elk Clank;, 92 Pitt Street. P.O. Eos 715.
ECURE A LOT AT SPRINGSIDE.
£1 DEPOSIT, £1 PER MONTH.
FORTUNATUS FINANCIAL, LAND, AND
INVESTMENT COMPANY,
igp 317 PITT STREET,
Near Tempei’anco Hall.
IBKENHEAD ESTATE.
The balance of this Grand Estate for AUCTION
SALE, on
SATURDAY, the 26th May, at 3 o’clock,
by
WATKIN AISfD WATKIN.
Lithographs, and all information, from the Auc-
tioneers, or at the Offices of the Vendors-*-
171 York-street, Sydney.
KIRKER, GREER, & CO., DISTILLERS,
BELFAST and GLASGOW.
LOCH DHU, very oldest and purest Scotch
Whiskey.
SHAMROCK, very oldest and purest Irish
Whiskey.
Won 4 Gold Medals and Australian Exhibitions.
Government Analyst says: Unusually pure,
mellow, and well-matured.
FROM ALL SPIIUT MERCHANTS.
Agent: G. ADAMS,
119 Pitt-st., Sydney, and Flinders-st., Melbournne.
The high school, hobart, Tasmania.
Rector: The Rev. R. D. Poulett-Harris, M.A.,
Trinity College, Cambridge. Headmaster: Mr. Ed.
Edmondson, Christ Church, Oxford. The salubrity
of the Tasmanian climate, combined with the high
standard maintained ny the Council of Education,
has brought the collegiate advantages of the colony
prominently under the notice of Australian
parents. The High School occupies the head place
in the degree lists. It surpasses all colonial educa-
tional establishments in the healthiness and beauty
of its situation, which is upon a slope bordering
the Queen’s Domain, and in the vicinity of the
Cricket Ground and Saltwater Baths. The T.S.N.
Co. issue return tickets to scholars at single fares.
Prospectus and terms may be obtained from Mr.
JAB. E. CUNNINGHAM, 1130 Elizabeth-street,
Sydney, or from the Rector.
c
v
o
U
Or
a:
Q
o
a.
o
CP
>/
m
BULL-DOG ALE.
IT is not the clearness or. condition alone in
BULL-DOG ALE that preserves this brand
first in public estimation. Common bitter crude
beei'S are made very fine, but no other brand has
the same mellow vinous character, the fullness on
the palate, and the gTeat keeping 1 qualities of the
BULL-DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cau-
tioned against tradei-s who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred
to as equal in quality to BULL-DOG.
CATTELL & CO., Agents.
Newcastle Agents: WOOD BROTHERS & CO.
AND
eizj =
ND ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
PREPARED'ONLY BY
Thomas Ingham
W^cox
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10'
‘33],
ﬁg}; T?
w '
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn shelters
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
&c. &o. &c.
S. HEBBLE w lIITE
416 GEORGE STREET.
Armstrong's Remedy for Internal or
Bleeding Piles
Rapidly superseding all other modes of treatment.
For the CURE of HEMMERHOIDS, largely pre-
scribed by the Faculty. It improves the general
HEALTH, equalises the CIRCULATION, relieves
CONGESTION, stops BLEEDING, Pain, and Itch-
ing, in from 24 to 28 hours. Sold in bottles only, at
4s. 6d. and 10s..
ARMSTRONG’S PARAGON PILE OINTMENT,
FOR OUTWARD PILES. Price, 2s.
Armstrong's (Camomile) Liver and Bilious
Pills,
For the Cure of Indigestion, Dyspepsia,P ains in
the Side, Headache, Giddiness, Heartburn, Flatu-
lency, and Habitual Constipation. They give a
Healthy Tone and Vigour to the necessary Organs
of Digestion—the Stomach and Liver—and being
mild in their operation, promote Digestion, restore
the Appetite, and strengthen the entire System.
Price, Is., 25., and 4s. 6d.
Armstrong’s Red Jamaica Sarsaparilla,
in Combination with Dandelion and Potash.
‘ Recommended by the Highest Medical authority
as a Vitalising Blood Restorative and Tonic.”
ss. 6d., 10s. 6d., 21s.
ZW~ Goods forwarded to all parts of the colonies,
and Price Lists sent post free.
160 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Two Doors below Compagnoni’s.
WANTED, Pick and Shovel Men at Prospect
Reservoir Works. Highest Wages.
Fortnightly Payments and long job.
JAMES M'GUIGAN,
Contractor.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Rotal, “ Mankind ” Vide p. 10.
Opera House, “Manola” ib.
Pitiless the rain came down
“Cold as fish-ponds frozen
Sheet of water fit to drown
Critic meek who yoes in—
Critic (though a humble man)
Has his seat “ chalked on the plan.”
Lights are flashing in the rain
(Cold as flsh-ponds frozen);
Drivers with a skilful rein
Drive up by the dozen :
Yes, midst cries of “ Look alive, up,”
Drivers dexterously drive up.
Clank of sabres—hoofs’ loud tramp
Now the mob is humming
“ ’Urry hup agin’ the lamp !
Lady Lottus coming !
Orderly dismounts and goes in
While ’tis ‘ cold as fish-ponds frozen.’,
Such a wintry “ whuish !” that you
Sure may be supposin’
Made a critic feel all through
“ Cold as fish-ponds frozen!”
Hang the phrase ! No more we'd heed it!
Where the mischief did we read it ?
* * *
We w r ent on Monday night to Rignold’s
benefit. We had several reasons for this. In the
first place, we don’t care about the theatre on
Saturday night, save under exceptional circum-
stances. Saturday nights are generally first nights
at the Royal, and having attended at duty’s call,
we have been haunted. Yes, haunted by forms
and faces which haunt “first nights!” haunted by
familiar shirUfronts—by spectral sets of studs—by
pronounced probosces; and haunted above all by
rows of critics of all hues and sexes—dear souls
whom we have sat in company with through so
many “premiers;” whose nice little pleasant
notices we have so cheerfully anticipated; and
whose smiles we have so often sought for in vain.
When asleep, we have dreamed of that weird and
terrible dress-circle. We have seen it in our
dreams as we have seen it bv day-light. Sombre
and ghastly, with phantom first-nighters flitting
by with a bat-like whirr, and hovering amidst
the dark shadows and the dusty covers;
some shaking their curls redolent with hair-
oil; one striking his beard, the cut of which has
the smack of royalty; one shaking her reticule;
and one pressing his hand lovingly on an M.S.
drama in the breast-pocket of his coat. So the
ben. being a double-barrelled one, we chose the
night on which George would be honoured by the
presence of the vice-regal party. There was a
liberal programme. “Alone, a throe-act comedy
in which—the bill stated—(and playbills, like circu-
lars of joint stock companies, never lie) Mr.
Rignold had played (during 300 nights at the Court
Theatre; and “ Black Eyed Susan.” the William of
which George had played ( vide playbill) “ at the
T.R. Drury Lane, and throughout Great Britain
and the United States with enormous success.”
* * *
Very good. To put “Alone” upon a
critical test, however, it is impossible to come to
any other conclusion than that “Herman Meri-
vale and Palgrave Simpson’s magnificent comedy ”
(as Mr. Rignold calls it) is of an extreme and deso-
late poverty. The situations are old, the dialogue
is trite, and the action is dull. In this Mr. Rignold
plays an old Colonel; who, first, is really blind,
and then pretends he is blind. But blind, or seeing,
Colonel Chalice, as depicted by Mr. Rignold, is
always a bore. We could forgive him being a
bore cheerfully ; what we can’t forgive him, how-
ever, is being a pantaloon. In his emotional
moments he was not the brave and stalwart old
Colonel, but “the lean and slippered pantaloon” of
Jacques’ speech ; in all that the Colonel was never
lean, and only in one instance slippered. There
was to our minds nothing artistic in Mr.
Rignold’s “Colonel ” Chalice. All he ever
knew of it, he has lost in the watery
l/uet d pern and the shipwrecks of melodrama.
But if Rignold never caught on, what were the
rest like ?ffPoor Hodson was more “galvanic” than
Uriah Heep—to say nothing of Fluellen ; and
Watton was almost, but not quite completely, out
of it as the Doctor. Mr. J. R. Greville gave us a
representation of Shatton Strawless calculated to
make the angels weep. It couldn't have made
them laugh, anyhow! He was dressed in a ludi-
crous hat and an impossible pair of pants, and he
gave us a performance which was suggestive of
“ The party by the name of Johnson,” the man in
“ No. 1 Round the Comer," Mr. Box—anything, in
short, but comedy. But it was Mr. J. R. Greville.
And Mr. J. R. Greville was pleased, of course, that
it should be so considered.
* * *
Of the ladies, Miss Brabrook Henderson
carried off the palm as Mrs. Thornton. She
was lively—very lively—at times even skittish.
But she was picturesque. Like “Ji port’’—she
was “good but old.” But we ask why was Miss
Watts-Phillips (we always forget the “ Roland ”)
put up in the part of Maude Trevor? We ask
this that the young lady may realise our surprise
at the exceeding originality of her performance.
It was a performance that, in our opinion, lacked
thought, study—even the ordinary intelligence
one would expect from the daughter of the author
of “ The AVoman in Mauve,” and “ Maude’s Peril.”
But it was chaff. And we do what the wind
does with chaff. AYe blow it away.
* * *
AVe’ll shelve “ Black-eyed Susan,” and say
the Rignold Company left after the performance,
for Melbourne. They give way here to Bland
Holt, who opens on Saturday with “Mankind.”
During'the interval the theatre has been cleaned
and beautified; and we may hope during Bland’s
season to laugh during the comic scenes even if
we have to cry over the pathetic ones.
•" * * *
The cast of “ Mankind” is truly a pheno-
menal’one. Read it; and think what it costs a
week:—Groodge, Alfred Dampier; Sharpley, B. N.
Jones; Sharpley (alias Maitland), James Carden;
Pinpool, L. St. Lawrence; Warren, Herbert Flem-
ming; Melton, Harry Jerden; Bright, Bland Holt;
Monkeytrick, Charles Brown; Posseta, E. Ryan;
Blowhard, J. Rosier; Fitzallan, W G. Carlile;
Barrow, T. A. Howard; O’Droghei’ty, J. Ctesar;
Wiggins, John C. Wilton; Kidston, H. Hamilton;
Maitland. Miss Blanche Stammers; Not Known,
Miss Lily Dampier; Bright, Miss Annie Taylor;
Bickerton, Miss Julia Merton; Melton, Miss Mars-
ton Leigh; Frisby, Miss Lena Ellis: Desmond, Miss
A. ShattejrtQn ; Desmond, Miss Goldney. Eheu!
Anri what about the Opera House and
about Manola, which is the grayest, brightest, and
prettiest thing ever seen out of Paradise—and we
nave never been there. Tell us about Kate Chard,
Ivanova, Raymond, and the pretty rest, including
the adorable Raymond (caught on to a hanker too,
we hear) who are all smiles, music, and mollcts.
Tell us also of Harry Power, as the portly prince
who is one moving grin; and Appleby, who has got
the hang of true comedy. Then tell us of lovely
melody, of superb schenes, of flashing fountains,
and of twinkling toes. Tell us all this, dear old
baldheads, and — go again.
* * * *
LAURA!
Petrarch loved a Laura more
Than the laurel of Apollo,
Singer of the days of yore.
You and we know what we know,
Yet we’ve found a Laura, lo,
Who can beat your Laura hollow!
Laura, laughing Laura, she
To our secret heart has stole a
Way with all her grace and glee—
Home ? address ? why, certainly!
Raymond is her name, and she
Is a student in “ Manola.”
* * * *
The correspondent of the London Era
“ hears of the death in Calcutta of the lady
known to the profession as Jessie Raymond/’
Very good; Wo don’t deny the lady is dead; we
simply sav that Death seems to agree with her
exceedingly well. If we could look when we are
dead as she looked when we saw her last—which
was about a week ago—we would cut the connec-
tion of this hollow world to-morrow. Miss Jessie
Raymond (or Mrs. Glover) is now' the happy wife of
a gentleman well known in the profession out
here —Mr. R. P. Roper. Mr. Roper informs us that
she is excessively alive, and he ought to know'.
* * * *
Let us with a tuneful mouth
Sing asong of Jimmy South ;
And to start the song along
Say he oped at Wollongong
Monday last—we’ve not forgot,
When he shows them what was what.
Bah ! this song begins to doze,
He will sing the rest in prose.
• • •
Jimmy has taken a first-rate comedy com-
pany with him. We forget their names, but that
is of no consequence. Are their names not to be
found on the bead-roll of fame? They are all
illustriously missed anyhow. With our character-
istic discretion we don’t say by whom. Very glad
by the way are we to notice that Mrs. South is
again able to play, and that the unscareablo
Whittington is still advance agent for Mr. South.
Jimmy and his company go to Kiama, Bega, Bom-
bala, Cooma, and finally, heaven, we suppose. It
is hard that we should never have a chance to see
him again.
* * * #
We have received from Mackay (Q.) an
account of Mr. Bandmann’s performance of
“ Hamlet ” there. Our correspondent writes
currents calamo and is caustic besides. Scattered
here and there through the throe folio sheets
of his notice are such epithetical gems as
“Temple of Tragedy,” “Zion of Tragedy,” and
many others which betray the master hand. Con-
sequently we consider that we have been honored
by a communication from a citizen of high stand-
ing up there—the Clerk of Petty Sessions, perhaps,
or even the Mayor ! We are inclined to think it
was the clerk, however, as all the words are
spelt correctly. We may be pardoned for being
proud of this condescension on the part of his
worship or his clerkship, whichever it is. Up till
now our country correspondence has mostly been
with the local bellman or poundkeeper. As
might be expected, our present correspondent—
may your worship live for ever, may your clerk-
ship never die—has the fastidious tastes of his
class. Ho objected, for instance, to there being no
Castle of Elsinore in the play and to Hamlet
standing out against a background of ragged gum
trees (the stock scene in the Mackay theatre, we are
informed), to splutter his soliloquy. Really, now—
though, of course, we defer to the more refined
tastes of the Mackay exclusives—we think that
this is rather exacting. It seems, also, that there
was some bother about the Ghost—the gentleman
who was to have played this part was playing
poker and held too good a hand to come, or some-
thing else prevented him, but, anyhow, “ a gentle-
man from the audience kindly consented to fill up
the gap”—by the way. we can’t just see how the
absence of a Ghost could make a gap—and did it so
well than an influential section of the audience
proposed to make him stick to the part altogether.
It was only after a great deal of persuasion that
they consented not to kill him. We have often
felt the same way; there are scores we know who
make very indifferent men, but who, we are per-
suaded, would make excellent ghosts. Anyhow,
Mr. Bandmann’s performance was not properly
perly appreciated in Mackay—which is hard either
upon Mackay or Mr. Banamann; we don’t know
which. Daniel has had better luck at Rockhamp-
ton.
Sir Daniel Cooper, Bart.
We give in our front page an excellent
portrait of Sir Daniel Cooper, Bart., now in
England. The people of the present time
know Sir Daniel mainly from his connection
with the huge Waterloo estate near Sydney,
but his services in the past are closely
identified with the history and progress of
the conntry, and cannot be forgotten. Both
here and in England, Sir Daniel has at
all times exhibited large public spirited.
To him may almost entirely be ascribed the
improved condition of the wool trade of
Australia in the home markets. He backed
up all political efforts in this direction by
some trenchant articles in the Press. Sir
Daniel gave £lOOO to the fund for the relief
of the widows and orphans of those who fell
in the Crimea, and contributed £5OO per
annum during the continuance of the war.
He received a baronetcy for his active
liberality at the time of the Lancashire
cotton distress. He is now sixty-two years
of age.
We notice that J. S. Fry and Sons, of
Bristol and London, “ the biggest cocoa people in
the world,” have established an office in our city.
The remains of a man have been dug out
of the ruins of Pompeii, with both hands resting
on his stomach. The building in which he was
found is supposed to have been a sixpenny
restaurant.
The trade between N.S.W. and Queensland
is every day developing, and now that the sugar
industry of the Northern colony is in full swing an
additional impetus has been given to our indus-
tries. One big line of trade is in the heavy de-
scription of vehicles for use on settlements, in
which an enormous business is done. Some idea
of this may be obtained on visiting the extensive
works of Messrs. Goodwin and Son, waggon
builders, &c., George-street, opposite Christ
Church. The name of Goodwin has been identi-
fied with the principal business in this line in the
colony, and Mr. Henry Goodwin having now
succeeded to the proprietary management, a big
step in advance is being made. The extensive
works of Bull and Co. have been absorbed by the
enterprising proprietor, and work is carried on
with great energy and success. Upwards of 1:10
waggons and drays of the best description are now
being manufactured for Queensland and our own
colony. The employes are the most experi-
enced' hands obtainable, and some have been in
the employ for over twenty years. The works are
well worth a visit.
Meinrath’s
SHIRTS.
MEINEAI’H’S SHIRTS.
96 King Street, Only.
SIEHIHS S.HIL VHNI3M
Meinrath’s
SHIRTS.
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
>x
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XY
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
H
OHDERN BROTHERS,
STREET.
PITT
HORDERNS’ OLD CASH SYSTEM.
DRESSES.—We would respectfully call
the attention of the ladies of Sydney to
our grand display THIS DAY of a nice
choice little lot of 5 cases real French
Cashmeres (all pure wool) at Is. ltd. really
beautiful goods, just the thing for the
present very changeable weather; also
7 cases very heavy and wide homespun
for the cold winter weather at a shilling
a yard.
10 cases splendid Costume Cloths, in
very choice colourings at 7Hjd a yard.
These goods are really worth a great deal
more, Dut they have been bought at a
very low figure, and we sell them to you
at a correspondingly cheap rate.
NEW PLAIDS. Beautiful Plaids,
choice Plaids. 16 cases of these very
scarce goods, just arrived by steamer,
opening up at 8 o’clock this morning and
ready for you at 9 o’clock sharp, the very
nicest goods of the season. Come early
and secure them, as we are quite sure
they will not last us three days. Remem-
ber, the plaids of all the clans and a
great many more.
HORDERN BROTHERS.
Blankets.
We would also direct your atten-
tion to our large and tine Stock of
Blankets.. We assure you that never
before have we been able to serve our
customers with such great saving to
them and satisfaction to ourselves; and
our very numerous patrons know that
when we say this it is saying a great
deal. Also, we have just opened a
choice lot of Eider and Russsian Down
Quilts. Now, we would urge ladies who
have not seen these goods to see them
without delay, and before buying
blankets for the season. They aro light,
warm, and reasonable in price, very
suitable for invalids, and have a very
much nicer arpearance.
M’Clintock’s Eider and Russian Down
Quilts are undoubtedly the coming
covering for bods. Wo have them in
all sizes, and in prices ranging from 12s.
6d. to £3 3s.
HORDERN BROTHERS.
Ribbons.
In this well-known department,
where you are sure to find all the
novelties, we aro now showing a choice
lot of
Fancy Tartan Ottoman Sash Ribbons,
in all sorts and combinations of colour.
Also, Tartan Sash Ribbons of all the
clans.
Ottoman and Plush Sash Ribbons in
all colours.
Satin Plush and Moire Sash Ribbons,
all colours.
Satin and Plush Stripes and Chocks, all
shades; and also
New designs in Satin Brocaded Sash, in
ail colours.
HORDERN BROTHERS.
Fancy deparment.
A nice little lot of
Plain and Tartan Chenille and Satin Col-
larettes.
Chenille Tics, with ends showing the
most beautiful blending of colours
imaginable.
The new “lolanthe” Linen Collars, very
neat.
Also a small parcel, just arrived, of
Ladies ’ Squares, in Tartan, Plain and
Navy, and White Spots.
The new “ Alexandria” Rutliing is the
newest thing out. It is indeed a beautiful
article, and gives a dress quite a finish.
HORDERN BROTHERS.
Gloves.
In this Department wo have just
opened
The “ Swede,” with leather gauntlets,
very nice for riding and driving; the
Patent Clasp Kid Glove, the Terra Cotta
Kid, Ladies’ Long Taffeta Jersey, embroi-
dered.
Taffeta and Kid Gloves, with Fur and
Spring Tops, very suitable for the
winter; Cashmere Mitts and Cashmere
jersey Gloves.
HORDERN BROTHERS.
Haberdashery.
Just opened—
Plain and Shaded Filoselles and Crewel
Silks, in Myrtles, Browns, Olives, Gas-
greens, Drabs, and Slates.
Kuitting and Darning Silks, in Car-
dinal, Navy, Claret, Sky, and Marone.
White and Coloured “Flosette” or
“Flourishing Thread,” white and col-
ours, in 1,2, and 3 star.
“Maerame” Thread and Point Lace
Thread, in all numbers.
The new Invisible Picture Cord, in
Gold and Silver, all sizes. Sold by the
ring.
Crochet Cotton, in the ball, in Pink,
Cardinal, Sky, Azaline, Browns, and
Navy.
Mantle Frogs and Ornaments, in Silk, ;
Passementerie, and Chenille, from 2
inches to 27 inches.
Ottoman Sets, very choice, in Bullion
and Chenille, as low as Is. 6d. the set.
Briggs’ Patent Transfer, in border-
ings, d’Oyleys, groups, sprays and cor-
ners, aprons, aatimacassars, brackets,
cushions, slippers, &<;., comprising the
following and many other designs:— .
Kate Greenaway, birds (fancy), verdure,
fruit, and flowers, forget-me-not, wild
rose, jessamine, poppy, hawthorn blos-
som, Virginia creeper, wheat and corn
flower, cyclamen, laburnum, and ver-
bena.
HORDERN BROTHERS, Pitt-street.
BUTTONS
Cup’s Fancy and Fisheye Pearl
Enamelled Buttons. George and the
Dragon Buttons.
Frosted (gold and silver) Buttons.
Burnished, Iridescent, and Anchor
Buttons
Ours is the largest and best assorted
Button Department in the city. Here
you have 1500 different kinds and de-
signs of buttons to select from.
HORDERN BROTHERS, Pitt-street,
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Xi
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XJC
XX
XX
XX
XY
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
CARPETS.
Here is a fact which ought to
recommend this department to you.
We are the contractors for all the Go-
vernment Carpets, Linoleums, Oilcloths,
Curtains, ana general furnishing. Al-
though perhaps we do not make such a
display to the street as some other
shops, we have doubtless as good, and wo
think better, stock of these goods as they;
and here you can rely on getting quickly,
civilly, reasonably, and well sorved, and
your orders punctually and intelligently
carried out.
Here is a “ Yankee Notion,” which is
used by the million in the United States,
and which is a boon to the housekeeper,
and recommends itself to you—
THE HARTBHORF SHADE ROLLER
is as near perfection as anything in that
line can be, They never get out of
order, and will bear rough handling.
Their mechanism is simple and com-
plete, and they are destined to super-
sede everything of the kind in the
market.
They are very simple.
They are very du ruble.
They are very reliable.
They are the standard roller.
They are incomparably superior to
any of the various makeshifts hitherto
used for handling window blinds.
They are quite indispensable for win-
dows, awnings, maps, skylights, &c.
The gratitude of all housekeepers is
due to Mr. Stewart Hartshorn for his
practically perfect invention in shade
rollers.
They contain less machinery and fewer
parts than any other shade roller manu-
factured, and never get out of order.
They are the best in the world.
They are easily handled.
They are easily put up.
They have no vexatious cords and
balances.
They are no doubt the correct thing
Send for one for each of your win-
dows.
We arc the agents for these “Harts-
horn Rollers.”
Como in to-day and make your pur-
chases. W e can and do serve you
promptly, attentively, and well.
Our only address is
HORDERN BROTHERS,
211 Pitt-stroet, near King-street.
Get out of the tram at King-street.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
:xx
:xx
X XX X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X XX XX 3
XiiXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
rjlO THE ELECTORS OF GIPPS WARD.
An Extraordinary VACANCY having- occurred
m your \V aid, caused by tho lamented death of
IUTmMu f£ d r t : Ht , ooll A e,i >! l(lcima, >- the lute Mr.
MEltltlMAN, I take tho liberty of
offering myself as a
CANDIDATE
for the vacant office of
ALDERMAN,
at the request of a number of influential Rate-
papers. Having for many years had a large in-
terest in the
WARD;
knowing well its various requirements; and having
the necessary time at my disposal
TO ATTEND TO ITS WANTS,
will, I trust, if I havo the honour of boing eloctod
hy you, be ” *
SUFFICIENT GUARANTEE
that I will givo my utmost energies to the intorest
CITS-IN GENERAL
and
GIPPS WARD IN PARTICULAR.
I have the honour to remain,
Your obedient servant,
15th May, 1883. J> ‘ F ’ HART *
SATURDAY, MAY 30th.
ELIZABETH FARM,
PARRAMATTA.
SECOND SUBDIVISION OF THIS NOW
FAMOUS ESTATE, GO ACRES
All the Town Lots,
Maiu River Frontages,
Extensive Tramway Frontages,
Grand Avenue Frontages
303 SPLENDID ALLOTMENTS, *
fronting Parramatta River, tho Grand Avenue,
River Road West, Arthur, George, Hassall, Olilt!
Alfred, Aston, Oak, Hope, and Weston Streets.
MILLS & PILE will sell by auction, on the
ground, on SATURDAY, May 30th, at a
o'clock.
THE ABOVE SUBDIVISION,
ON THE SAME ATTRACTIVE TERMS,
IN THE SAME LIBERAL MANNER
as the first salo, of which not a single lot remains
unsold.
Three years' credit for three-fourths of the pur-
chase-money at 5 per cent, interest.
TORRENS' TITLE. NO MORTGAGE.
PLANS READY at 114 PITT STREET.
Gas and Water pressure are obtainable at Parra-
matta, and the greatest comforts in life of Good
Light, Fresh and Pure Water, and Attractive
Scenery are to be had on the property.
Tho above comprises all the town lots between
George-street and the River, and all the valuable
mam river frontages, which are the mostimpor-
tant placed in the market since 1810. The Grand
Avenue, to be one of the finest in the COLONY
intersects the SUBDIVISION. ’
SPECIAL FREE TRAIN on SALE DAY.
MILLS & PILE,
Auctioneers.
THOMAS MUNRO,
£3T HERALDIC ARTIST AND ENGRAVER
PLAIN AND FANCY STATIONER, ’
10 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
A Large and varied assortment of Letter Books
Account Books, and all office requisites. Purses’
Albums, Plush Bags, and Reticules; Artists’ Mate-
rials, Photo, and Picture Frames, Illuminated
Scripture and other texts. Birthday, Condolence
and Memorial Cards.
Agent for August Huenerbein for Pianos, Or-
gans, and Music. The Engraving workshop being
under my own management, I feel confident in
suiting tho public taste.
The S.A.J. Club were again blessed with
splendid weather for their third day’s racing-.
Appended are the results:—Hurdles: Brigand 1.
Freedom 2, Lord of Clyde 3. S.A.J. Handicap:
Israelite 1, Leap Year 2, Lancaster 3. Juvenile
Selling Stakes: The Lawn 1, Monsoon 2, Ishmaell 3.
Corinthian Cup: Leap Year 1, Triplets, Mesalliance
3. Goodwood Handicap: Colstoun 1, Royal Irish-
man 2, Tocal 3. Steeplechase: Alhambra 1, Chry-
salis 2, Joker 3.
“ Tlmt fellow is so highly colored that ho
reminds me of a chromo,” remarked a man of a
schnapper-nosod, dissipated-looking creature in u
marine suburb.
“ He reminds me more of an engraving than a
chromo,” remarked a bystander.
“ How SO
“ Well, you see, an engraving always has a glass
infront of it, and a chromo hasn’t.”


PEPPER AND SALT.
From the New Yobk Economist just to
hand, we see that the sleeping-parlour cars which
our ex-Dictator ordered for this country are ready
for shipment at Troy, and that one is “ named Lady
Parkes, after the Governor-General (sic) of New
South Wales, and one Lady Kobertson, after the
wife of the. Railroad Commissioner.” There is some
other colonial information supplied by the paper
which is equally refreshing, and which speaks
volumes for that sly humour which so few knew
before the Economist reached us, that Sir Henry
possessed. We learn that “ a fast train runs from
Sydney to Melbourne by day and returns at night,”
and also that “ trains have been running over this
road for months, but there have heretofore been
neither sleeping nor parlour cars in Australia.” It
appears from the article that “ the Australian Com-
missioners considered this [the car manufactured
for us now] to be the best combination of sleep-
ing cars,” and so ordered two of them, to be
named as wo have stated. The carriages seem to
be quite an inspiration if all we hear of them be
true, since the saloons in the day time are quite
guiltless of the slightest thing to suggest the com-
ing snare. There is a line smoking-room attached
to each, and lavatories on a gorgeous scale ; the
car being convertible either way in ten minutes.
We shouldn’t believe this, though, unless we read
it in au American paper. But the general public
needn’t shriek for merriment yet. The “ revolving
arm-chairs,” the Axininster carpets, and the en-
amelled and gold panelling will have pretty well
had the gloss taken off them before the ungilded
have a chance of testing their softness and beauty •
M.P.’s and their wives, county Whereats and their
members, Little Gussies on journeys, etc., will
monopolise both Lady P. and Lady R. In-
deed, as most of these dignitaries want a car-
riage to themselves, it is just possible this
generation may never luxuriate in the elegance
Parkes ordered for us in the days when he was
Dictator, and which come to hand now that he is
dust. Therefore, our joy is of a subdued descrip-
tion. As, however, the cars are not yet paid for,
and might never be (for nothing is certain, except
that Pastor Allen will take “twice pudding”), Sir
Henry would do well on their arrival here to cele-
brate them with an Owed. In the King Cambysses
vein—eh —
“ Hail cars, that o’er the sleepers glide,
The Members’ joy ! the dead-heads’ pride,” etc.
That’s the strain !
• • •
The editor of the Tumut paper (we forget
its uame( appeal's to extend good-nature to the
borders of Quixotism He has apparently made
the acquaintance of a colonial champagne-man,
and lie writes in his journal thus:—“Give mo an
order for him; L get no commission, but his cham-
pagne is really good.” This by the way;—and
merely as having something whimsical in it in the
realms of introduction. But where we are con-
cerned is here. We are told that Sir James Martin
and Judge Forbes have “ given considerable orders
to the manufacturer of this beverage. “We and a
lot of other people will be sorry for this. We
have, it will be remembered, only just welcomed,
with effusion, Sir James back to health again.
When he was sick we pined; and many were the
anxious inquiries we made at Numantia—patiently-
waiting in the hall for the last bulletin about His
Honor, while the cook kept guard over the ooats
and umbrellas. But though we dearly love his
Honor (as, Indeed, we adore Judge Forbes), the
health of their Honors is not our only ground for
alarm in the matter of the “considerable orders”
they have given for the Tumut editor’s friend’s
champagne. It is written upon our hearts
that no man who drinks Colonial champagne can
be considered a free agent. We are naturally of a
cheerful, gentle, and retiring disposition. No
sucking-dove roars, as a general rule, with more
mellow mildness than we do. Though, at times we
may appear to wield the press-knout with Potts-
like phrenzy, we are only a few stone weight of
gentility inside a suit of modest cut when we heave
in sight of the family doorstep. And yet, on one
occasion, we were beguiled by a Bardolph of this
street into drinking sparkling wine that owed its
nativity to the vineyards of the soil. That evening
we kicked the cradle, strangled the canary, and
beat the dog. We were afterwards told that our
speech was bellicose—our manner offensive. It
was even whispered as far down our street as the
butcher’s shop that we had, within a few yards of
our ancestral halls, ogled fair tobacco-twisters,
and (yes, that is the word) “ mugged” a barmaid.
Very well, then. Judges are, after all, only mortal.
And we tremble while we say it. All right.
What show, we ask, then, have the poor pri-
soners got with judges who give “ consider-
able orders” for Colonial champagne? Let
their Honors try their utmost to temper jus-
tice with mercy, and the justice will get all the
best of it. It was our intention to have inaugu-
rated our new series by the commission of several
crimes ; but we don’t think we’ll do it now. When
we see the Herald boys carrying their babies in
the gloaming across tho Domain, virtue palls on
us, and we long to be wicked. Now, however, we
hesitate. Wo are fond of committing a crime or
two, but when it comes to being tried by Judges
who, givo “considerable orders” for Colonial
champagne, we don’t see our way at present to bo
sinful.
* * * *
We see that Mr. Roberts has received, at
the hands of Mr. Justice Windeyer (to whom no
A SYDNEY SHAVE.
HAIRDRESSER, (to new Customer): —“You see, sir, this being your first visit to my shop, I
haven’t yet quite got the run of your face. Oh, by the way, would you like to take your
ear with you? I’ll just wrap it in a bit of paper.—Next!”
suspicion of colonial champagne would seem to
attach) a sentence of some eight years for cutting
the throat of the racehorse Terminus. Mr.
Roberts was down in Sydney at one time, and we
gloried in his friendship. We made a good deal of
him then, and we naturally feel annoyed now that
we did not make more of him. But how were we
to know that he would ever become so distin-
guished ? The law seems to consider it intensely
criminal to cut the throat of a racehorse. You
can, indeed, hardly do anything now, except take
Town Hall contracts, without being punished for
it. But, without being obtrusive in our sympathy
for Mr. Roberts, we may casually mention that he
is a man of a tine and delicate feeling. When he
was committed at Hay, and bail was refused, ho was
engaged—yes, very much engaged—to be married.
And ne wedded the object of his choice, by special
permission, inside the gaol walls. Tho ceremony, the
ring, and a kiss between the iron grille— ctvoila.
And now that Mr. and Mrs. Roberts may be said to
be disposed of, wo come to the horse. Well, that
horse has won a race since Mr. Roberts’s convic-
tion, and (the horse) laughs so loudly now, sixteen
hours out of the twenty-four, that the landlord’s
eldest sons have to take turn about on the gal-
vanized iron of the loose-box, in order to keep the
roof on.
* * *
It is a mild joke, of course. But, if we are
to believe Mr. Darley, mild jokes are popular. The
only thing that would seem to militate against them
at present, so far as we can learn, is that nobody
reads them. “ Wholesome fun,” which has been
immortalised by the hon. gentleman, whom we
welcome with empressement from the Bordeaux
Exhibition, at which he was a distinguished—and
we hope active —commissioner, should, if influence
could ensure popularity, for little balivemes, cause
them to be indeed in request But the question
seems to be, and it is “a nice legal question”—is
the influence of Mr. Darley sufficient to make
small jokes popular.? Methinks it is; therefore we
reprint one from the Herald. Here it is:—
“Summer Hill.—To let, Regent-street, Summer
Hill, a horse, containing 5 rooms, kitchen, bath-
room, plenty of water, large yard; rent, £1
per week. Key and particulars next door.”
This is funny, is it not ? “ A horse with live rooms,
a kitchen, bathroom, and a tine large yard;” to say
nothing of the “ key and particulars next door. ’
This is the kind of item we have been looking out
for ever since the Clontarf libel case; in whicn Mr.
Darley made his memorable statement re our little
Punch, to which we wish every possible prosperity.
There is no satire intended here, but we are quite
honest in our aspirations in this respect. We trot
out, therefore, on this occasion, a nice mild, meek
little pleasantry just us a feeler. You see there Is
no harm in it. A horse, with five r but why
explain? And, if we could only believe, as we
could wish to do, that all the people who love us
will love this particular style, wo could be almost
happy. But the effect on us, after reading this
par., is to make us almost miserable. Strange I
• • •
There you are! People are never satisfied!
Here, now, our junior contemporary in Hunter-
street has been sending a critical young mission-
ary round the Sydney cow-yards, and showing up
the milk supply. We suppose that the Herald
people are, in the wealth begotten of gorgeous
godliness, independent of the milkman. That his
cry for them has no terrors. It is on this snugly in-
dependent position we conceive that the anti-milk
policy was inaugurated. This is, in keeping with
the usual heartlessly selfish method of our con-
temporary when treating of social matters. We
have been purchasing milk for a considerable
time at 3d. per pint, and we have been glad to get
it. When he has left it we have enjoyed it: when
he has not left it we have yearned for it. Wc never
inquired where our milkman resided; and for
reasons of our own (which need not bo particu-
larised) [Certainly not.—Ed. B.] we have never
looked upon the cart. The love of milk is one of
the weaknesses which are inherent to mankind.
Mr. Micawber was extremely partial to milk, if _wo
are to judge from the amount of his outstanding
account. And so was his small servant. Who can
forget this ? “ Has my small account been heerd
on?” asked the milkman of the small ser-
vant. “It will be attended to immediate,”
was the reply (prompted by an upstairs
echo of the small servant. “Are you fond of milk?”
enquired the milkman. “Yes, I likes it,” was the
reply. “ Then, you don’t have none to-morrow —
not a mossel <r milk do you have to-morrow.”
The small servant then appeared to console her-
self with the idea of having some to-day; and so
the scene closes in—not without its moral. Mr.
Micawber never thought of asking any awkward
questions about his milk. He was satisfied to get
it. Indeed, tho Herald young party is the first
man wo have ever hoard of as opening up the
grisly horror of the milk-walk. Tho world is
millions of years old—(by saying this we sacrifice
our future hope of benefit of clergy)—but yet
everybody seems to have been satisfied with their
milk before this Herald reporter “ lot up” on the
cow-keepers. From all we have heard to the
contrary, Noah was content with his daily quart,
and Nero, and Joseph, and Herod, and other gentle-
men whose memories we infinitely respect; and tq
come later down—still careering in the classics—
there was Box, the immortal creation of Maddison
Morton—what did he say on the eve of setting out
to work? “Mi-s. Bouncer,” he exclaimed, “take
me in a ha’porth of milk, and let it stand.
Hike the cream, to rise to the top." No suspicion
here, you see! Our milk we nave accepted in a
similarly cheerful spirit. If, when putting the rum
into the milk we have found it has curdled, why
we have put the milk into the rum; and if wc have
discovered that that has curdled, why we have
drunk it with moody thankfulness, and never dis-
tressed our minds by any awkward ruminations in
which lacteal logic was embodied. What, there-
fore, must be our feelings when we read of one
Elace where the cows drink from a “ well that has
een formed by sinking into the ground an old
barrel, and its covering is an old wooden case. But
the most noticeable thing about the well is the
water it contains, for the surface of the water is
covered with a frothy scum, which gives the well
the appearance of a cesspit. With this scum driven
to the sides of the barrel, in the desire to raise
some of the fluid as clean as possible, the water
may be brought up better than it looks; but even
then it is very objectionable; and, to make things
worse, there is, quite close to the well, and on
higher ground, a large heap of cow and horse
manure, which has the appearance of never
being properly cleared away, and which,
whenever rain falls, must drain into the
well.” And, it must be, but in a pensive
frame of mind we read that the spirit of
typhoid fever seems to hover round cow-sheds,
and that pale-faced girls with ominously short-cut
hair (who have just “got over it ”) are the presid-
ing Patiences at the metropolitan milk-pails ! Of
course, all our [sympathies are with the milkmen!
The young gentleman who wrote the article is
evidently no more dependent for his milk supply
on the much-maligned milkmen. He has, in all
probability, contracted for the half of a goat or
the sixth of a cow. So he can jeer at the poor pur-
veyor, and metaphorically set the heel of his
blucher upon him and flatten him out. But it
shall never be said of us that we did not stand by
the poor and the oppressed. Manure in our milk—
and why not? Have we not sand in our sugar,
mould in our herrings, alum in our bread, and
fluke in our mutton ? Let us be reasonable! And
as long as our milkman leaves it regularly, and
does not bawl personalities up the staircase, we
shall stand by lum. Hang it! lot a paper have seme
decided policy!
BALLAD OF A BAD BOY.
Children, dear, if you will listen to the story we
shall tell,
You shall hear of some things, children, will reward
your patience well;
You shall hear of two small brothers who were
happy herding cows,
And as much of other matters as the editor allows-
They were sons of a selector in the wild and won-
drous West—
Where the sun shines on the Lachlan, gilding each
small ripple’s nest,
Till the breast of the bright waters looks a sheet of
golden mail—
And their father was a dummy on a most extensive
scale.
Jack was one and Jim the other, you could not tell
each from each
By their faces—you oould only separate them by
their speech.
Very good and very pious was the little urchin
Jim ;
As for Jack, a prayer or whipping, they were just
the same to him.
Jim, when he would break a basin, he would own
it, plump and flat,
And get licked ; but Jack, he always blamed it on
the poor tom-cat ;
And, when Jack would rob the cupboard, ho would
put the blame on Jim,
And lie down outside and chuckle when ho heard
the howls of him.
When at school, Jack was too idle and too fond of
fun and play,
To do anything but crib from Jim his lessons day
by day;
And when Jim got the first prize which he
deserved beyond a doubt,
Jack he gave him a black eye, as soon as ever they
got out.
Jim disliked to go to Sunday-school; Jack ne’er
made any bones—
But when Jim was praying inside, be was outside
throwing stones ;
And whenever the good teacher said : “ Each
Christian had a cross
To bear,” Jim heard a jingle—Jack was playing
pitch-and-toss.
So from day to day they grew up by sunny Lach-
lan’s side,
And the bad boy was, as usual, his dummy father’s
pride ;
And that father he would fondly say “My brave
little bull-pup,
Won’t you make a famous dummy, like your pa,
when you grow up 1”
But for Jim, though in truth-telling he was pain-
fully exact,
Though he had a heap more virtues than the good
boy in the tract,
In the matter of appearance he was only just
so-so—
That is thinner than an axe-edge and as ugly as a
crow.
What became of them at last? Well, now we’ll
end this in a crack.
One of them took holy orders. Jim, or course ?
Oh, no, sir, Jack 1
Now he’s well-dressed, fat, and holy—and the other,
what of him?
He’s a scoffer and a sinner, and his signature is—
JIM.
A fine place—the police court.
After a Ballarat revival meeting, we read,
several converted Chinamen joined the whites in
singing “We’re bound for the Promised hand.”
The audience knew, however, that they were
bound for somebody’s hen-roost.
INTAGLIOS.
In Vain.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sister, sing
Some sweet thing
With a glad refrain,
And a ring,
Which shall bring
Back the Spring again!
Some old strain
That we twain
Sang when we did string
Daisy chain,
Or did stain
Small hands berrying.
I took wing—
Sister sing—
In the roses reign,
That past Spring,
Home to bring
Broken heart and brain.
You were fain
To remain
Where the old thoughts cling;
Yours the gain,
Mine the pain,
Honey yours, mine sting.
Ah, you sing
Back the Spring
Sister, dear, in vain!
For the Spring
Cannot bring
Me my dreams again.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
The Judith of Riedel.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Arrayed as if for a feast,
Her hand on the hilt of the sword.
And the passionate blood of the East
Flushing up in a dusky red;
In a dusky and dark rose-red,
From the curve of her crimson lips
To the veins of her white forehead.
The deep death-draught, was poured,
Her hand on the hilt of the sword,
And a sudden and swift eclipse
Came over the eyes of the lord,
The haughty Assyrian lord;
And he dropped the cup from his lips
As he sat at the banquet-board*
Slowly the daylight dies,
Her hand on the hilt of the sword,
But the gleam of her great blaok eyes
Shines out in the gloom of the tent,
In the gloom of the tenebral tent,
And burns in implacable hate
On the face of the foe of the Lord.
The heart of her deep intent,
Her hand on the hilt of the sword,
And the arm that knew not relent
Were bared for the bidding of fate,
For the pitiless fiat of fate,
And the scorn of him who had scorned
The God whom her people adored.
In jewels and gold adorned,
Her hand on the hilt of the sword.
She neither woke him nor warned;
But the sword’s blue blade was bare,
In the dim light cruel and bare.
And the soul of the woman was dark,
And her face no longer fair.
In the dusk of the dead year’s light,
Her hand on the hilt of the sword.
In crimson, and gold, and white,
A woman walks out on the sward
With a solemn and sombre stare,
Out into the heart of the night,
Holding a head by the hair I
VICTOR J. DALEY.
Josephine.
We did not meet in courtly ball,
Where birth and beauty throng,
Where luxury holds festival,
And wit awakes the song;
We met where darker spirits meet,
In the home of sin and shame,
Where Satan shows his cloven hoOf,
And hides his titled name;
And she knew she could not be, Love,
What once she might have been;
But she was kind to me, Love,
My pretty Josephine.
We did not part beneath the sky,
As warmer lovers part;
Where night conceals the glistening eye,
But not the throbbing heart;
We parted on the spot of ground.
Where we first had laughed at love.
And ever the jests were loud around,-
And the lamps were bright above.
The heaven is very dark, Love,
The blast is very keen,
But merrily rides my bark, Love,
Good-night, my Josephine.
She did not speak of ring or vow,
But filled the cup of wine,
And took the roses from her brow
To make a wreath for mine;
And bade me, when the gale should lift
My light skiff o’er the wave,
To think as little of the gift
As of the hand that gave;
Go gaily o’er the sea, Love,
And find your own heart s queen,
And look not back at me, Love,
Your humble Josephine.
That garland breathes and blooms no more,
Past are those idle hours;
I would not, could I choose, restore,
The fondness or the flowers.
Yet oft their withered witchery
Revives its wonted thrill,
Remembered not with passion’s sigh,
But oh! remembered still;
And even from your side, Love,
And even from this scene,
One look is o’er the tide, Love,
One thought with Josephine.
Alas! your lips are rosier.
Your eyes of softer blue,
And I have never felt for her
As I have felt for you;
Our love was like the bright snow flakes,
Which melt before you pass,
Or the bubble on the wine, which breaks
Before you lip the glass;
You saw these eyelids wet, Love,
Which she has never seen,
But bid me not forget, Love,
My poor Josephine.
High Church is good. It is not low. Now,
away down in the sunny South, or, for the matter
of that, away somewhere in a big Northern metro-
polis, is a fashionable church, where a man once
condemned to death holds the post of honour.
This gentleman, when given to frivolity, stuck up
a store with firearms, and because he couldnx
carry off the coin, used his shooting-irons in a
rather ferocious style. Murder was his intent, and
he seriously wounded the arresting constable.
The case was so desperate that his sentence was
deuth, without hope of reprieve. The jury forgot
to add—“ recommended to mercy on account of
his respectable connectionsbut it was all the
same, tor his sentence was commuted to fifteen
years. While in prison his respectable breeding
began soon to show itself. He gagged a fellow-
prisoner, and telling him he was going to heaven,
proceeded to break out of gaol. He was captured
on the roof of a wing—and got an extra sentence.
This gentleman is now high ohurch. Let us prdy.


BRIEF MENTION.
Civilization has given the Tasmanian abo-
riginal a happier land !
A bush-missionary who dies and goes to
his reward always turns up on Queen’s birthday
for a new blanket.
Bishop Kennion, of S.A., desires to form
a Social Purity Society in that colonv. He will call
it the White Cross society. This will distinguish it
from the other Southern Jam Company, whose
badge, we believe, is a red cross.
Severe country journals devote a column
of spaoe to the alleged discovery of Noah’s Ark.
If our Press is thus unsecularised, we shall shortly
find in their columns allusions to the unearthing
DOOMED
of Pharoah’s pride, of Mrs. Potiphar’s virtue, and
of old man Parkes’ aspirated aspirations.
When Charles Bright, in his grave-side
oration over the cold clay of poor old Bowie Wilson
the other day, assured his hearers that on the other
Bide of Jordan men would meet the,ir wives and
wives their husbauds, many wept, and asked them-
selves whether divorce was only temporary after
Oik
A sagacious Irishman noticed, on last St.
Patrick’s Day, that all the whisky-dealers were on
horseback, while all the whisky-drinkers were on
foot. Had he been loss bigoted by religion, he
would 4a ve also noticed that, while the voters and
holy-water sprinklers walked in procession, all the
priests and politicians rode in carriages.
Judge Wilkinson has added to his stock of
white kid gloves through the torpidity of -crime in
ncramatta. One of our most; eminent ex-Judges
often whiles away a dreary hour by contemplating
the stock of kid gloves received by him during
circuit. But, in the latter case, the gloves are not
white-coloured, but the reverse. All the same,
they are significant, and arouse sweet memories.
A certain eminent Melbourne money-
lender, of shent-per-shent principles, has a large
mirror on either side of his office-window, and sits
between the two glasses, which have been most
scientifically adjusted by an optical expert. When
any man who owes him money passes by, he sends
his messenger (who otherwise never leaves his
side) to bring the debtor back to the “surgery.”
New works in the Press :—Beohet: “ Does
it pay to insure?” Peter Campbell: “Is a Beef-
safe necessary to salvation?” Monsignor Lynch:
Recollections of Maitland.” Andy Lynch: “How
to Roll a Log.” Alexander Stuart: “The Necessity
for Backbone.” Yooey Taylor: “ Should Lunatics
vote ?” George Reid: “ How and whom to Kiss.”
Dibbs: “How to Shepherd your Strength.”
Advance larrikinism! Scene; Quarter
Sessions, Bourke. Promising youth being tried
before intelligent jury for pulling a woman’s clothes
up to her knees in presence of four men. Sworn
to by reliable witness. Verdict, not guiltv. Judge
Docker : “ Well, gentlemen, I am rather astonished
at the verdict you have arrived at.” Foreman:
“ We thought the whole thing was only it lark.”
O yes, such a lark for—tho woman!
A Port Darwin dairyman has come out in
his true colours. He keeps chained to his pump
an alligator, seven feet long, and quite capable of
taking a man’s leg off or swallowing a child. It
got loose the other night and went to the cable
station with the intention of eating the operator,
who was, fortunately, out. However, the residents
like the alligator, so long as he keeps his mouth
shut, far better than they like the dairyman’s milk.
The cow-owner means to put the alligator in the
shafts of the milk-cart shortly, and reckons that,
when the saurian’s properly trained, no one will iu
his presence talk about “sky-blue,” “chalk-and-
water,” or pumps.
Jules Joubert was going along George-
street, the other morning, somewhat wrapped up
in himself. The cynical might say that that was a
very thin covering for a man in such cold weather.
But to our story. “ Good heavens, what’s the
matter with you, old fellow ?” asked a friend.
“Oh," replied Jules despondingly laying his hand
on his throat as if iu agony, “ the old complaint-
enlargement of the annexes.” (A cable had just
arrived notifying that the European exhibitors
would require a great deal of additional space
at Calcutta Exhibition.) “ Yes,” mused the other,
“ I have a terrible attack—worse than ever
—enlargement of the annexes.” “Poor old
man; they say that’s fatal, don’t they?” Jules
vouchsafed no reply, but walked away. His friend
excused him. “ Poor fellow!”
Buzacott, of Brisbane Courier, is going it
as usual. “ A Baby’s Dimple” is his latest subject
for poetry. No competent editor would have
exposed himself to a risk like that. There is
scarcely a compositor living who could resist tho
temptation to make it “A .Baby’s Pimple,” and
then send all his mates to hang round next morning
and hear the editor swoar when he got to the office.
Buzzy has escaped this once, but if he continues
his reckless career he will find himself publishing,
quite unexpectedly, when he imagined he had
given out verses on a Shrunken Rose, an ode to a
shrunken Nose, or a Drunken Nose, or a Drunken
Dosg, or a Drunkard’s Hose, while titters meet his
ear everytimo he passes the door of thecomposin*-
rooin.
A country paper tells how a citizen of
Ararat found, on returning 1 home, that his house
had been eaten by a couple of innocent-looking
cows, while a calf had nearly consumed a pair of
moleskin pants left out to dry by the owner when
—but a short time before—he left for the store
with a jug, his wife being from home. He lived in
a tent. The pole alone remained to show w here a
poor but honest son of toil started to raise a family
in the wilderness. The singular part, of the affair
is that the calf's contribution to the general wreck
has been entirely misrepresented. This inability
to grasp the whole facts of a ease is characteristic
of nearly all rival journals. They never state the
matter properly. Either the facts are whittled
down so as to lose all interest, or they are grossly
exaggerated so as to lose all rratsemhlance. Hap
pening to visit Ararat last week, pure curiosity in-
duced us to enquire into this affair. Thefollowißg
is the result, divested of all the would-be jocoseness
of some obscure newspaper hack. It was the cows
that ate the pants as well as the tent. They took
a leg each, and chewed philosophically aw'ay unit 1 ,
the junction was neared. This was fortified by a
large patch in the rear. Then the real struggle
commenced: and, as neither would yield, they
stood nose to nose bound by moleskin rather than
sympathy. It was during this novel tstr-ri-'rir that
they were found on tho railway track it ho tent bad
been pitched near the lino to facilitate the owner’s
profession of fracturing road-metal for the perma-
nent way), and were only separated by.a maple of
donkey engines hitched to the!** tails. These are
the real facts of the case as vouched for by a
respectable eye-witness who lias since been ap-
pointed Victorian correspondent to the Daily
XELEGaAPB.


Victoria, the land of Aaron Waxman, is
the land of promise. Promise to pay shixty per
shent.
In Geelong, Vic., if a constable gossips in
the street he is fined £3. He must simply take the
pie and pass on.
Tuberculosis from cattle. No wonder.
What can the Minister of Mines—a lawyer, possibly
—know about the Stock report? Now when
Dr. Ren-
The old decree that a man should earn his
living by the sweat of hi? brow has been considera-
bly improved upon. A Sydney rogue makes 15 per
cent, or so by swoating sovereigns.
Says a recent Lancet: “ Perhaps the most
dangerous of all animal food is the flesh of the
average pig.” Another injustice to the “jainyil’
Dan, and “ould Oireland.”
We read that the senior proprietor of a
Victorian country paper had a row with a man
lately, and “ savagely worried” his thumb. If this
is the style of the senior, we should like to know
what the junior proprietor is like. Probably he is
a bulldog.
Mr. Bryce, the N. 2. Native Minister, will
Srocood with his libel suit against Mr. Rusden, of
’.Z. historical celebrity, “as soon as ever he has
fixed up the Maories.” We shall probably soon
hear of Te Kooti being sent on a diplomatic mis-
sion to Melbourne, with a meat-chopper.
A Gundagai butcher once had a native
darkey as a help in the trade, and Jackey, like all
his countrymen, was fond of rum. After a
night’s debauch, he was met early one morning
coming out of town. Being asked “where he was
off to so early ?” he replied, “ Off to catch it ’pos-
sum.” “ Why, Jackey,’' remarked his interrogator,
“ you plenty beef at shop.” “ Baal go it this
morning,” said Jackey; “got’em too much rum
last night—like it something noice.’
44 A Perplexed One, Sydney: We can give
no advice in matters of religious faith. You must
act in accordance with the dictates of your judg-
ment."— Shroud.
What! poor journalistic wraith,
Have you, then, no religious faith ?
We thought two gods you ever had—
One, a good paying Gov’ment ad.,
The other, prince o’ political sharks,
Great Whereat’s shadow—'Enery Parkes!
Four men were recently “docked” for
robbing one David Talbot, at Lancefleld, Vic.
David is excessively short-sighted, and when
asked if he could identify the prisoners as the men
who bailed him up, he electrified the court by
pointing with the greatest confidence to the jury,
and shouting out, “Yes, them’s the gentlemen who
robbed me.” David had got his ideas of a “jury of
four ” muddled up with matters of a somewhat
foreign nature.
A servant girl at Greymouth (N.Z.) bought
a young horse, rode it herself on the racecourse,
and came in an easy winner in tho 44 ladies’ ” hack-
race. Her master and mistress take great pride in
their ablgail’s performance, and they have built a
stable for the quadruped's accommodation. The
master is not a sporting man himself, but his stable
and kitchen will be duly represented at future
turf-gatherings.
In a certain Southern town reside three of
the great unpaid. Some time ago, a son of No. 1
assumed the role of defendant at the local temple
of Justice, for a petty misdemeanour; the wife of
No. 2 followed suit shortly after; the trio was
completed last week, when No. 3 himsolf figured
as law-breaker. The revenue profited by their
misdeeds upon each occasion. Moral: The nearer
the Court the further from ! At the same
Court, an offender was fined only two sMUings for
stealing some turkeys, while another was awarded
a month’s seclusion for “ prigging ” an old pair of
boots. Ye gods!
In view of the coming Yass Pigeon Match,
some Bogolong aspirants tor shooting honours are
going in for practice in rather a novel manner.
They caught an unfortunate magpie some weeks
ago,' and have been using it for practice ever since.
The following is the modus operandi: A fishing-
line is tied to the bird’s leg, and he is placed in a
trap, which is sprung at some fifteen yards rise.
Should the magpie be missed, which he invariably
is, he is hauled back and placed in the trap for the
next shootist. With tho exception of the loss of a
few feathers, tho bird has up to date escaped
unhurt.
A bloated young Britisher, who bought a
station not long ago, came to the conclusion that
roping and half strangling cattle in the ordinary
way, tor the purpose of inoculation, was cruel; he
therefore resolved to administer chloroform. So
bidding his attendants keep at a distance, he went
into the stockvard to face a stud bull, bearing in
his hand a rag saturated with the drug tied on to a
elothes-prop. Two minutes later he was going in
the direction of the homestead sideways; and since
this, mustering has been stopped on the station, all
hands and the Chinese cook being now exclusively
engaged in operating on the boss with arnica.
Alfred’s poetic-obituary man still sails on
with his dead-march jingles. Here is the verse
which the musical mute shakes up to suit every
age and sex :
“ Fairer than the flowers above thee,
Fading on thy still, cold breast,
Placed by gentle hands that loved thee,
Little Lizzie’s gone to rest.”
One day vou see this printed apropos of the deceaseof
Lizzie M‘Gillicuddy; the next you find it quoted
in regard to the shuffling-off ot Max Schwillensau-
fenstein.
The conductors of the S. M. Herald have
had the courage to resent what could not be re-
garded as other than a gratuitous insult to the
Press generally. It is known to everyone that the
Press were not allowed to be present at the Minis-
terial picnic to the Hawkesbury, and now we
make known the fact that reports of the proceed-
ings were prepared by two members of the
Government and handed to the Herald for
publication, but the copy was politely declined.
The fear of “dvspeptic ’ attacks seems to be driv-
ing ministers and members to unreasonable
extremes. At Mr. Berry’s return dinner on Mon-
day night, more pressman than Postal Conference
delegates were present.
Captain Byrnes, of the “Parramatta
Prawns,” recently informed the bronzed and
bearded veterans 'under his command, that his
breast was filled to the bung with patriotic pride
until it looked like a big balloon that had just
caught on to a brass-button factory, as he learnt
that a gentleman had presented a splomdid malacca
stick, to be given to the best drilled man in the
corps, and had asked him to act as judge, and that,
if the winner could make three consecutive centres
at 600 yards, he would have it silver-mounted for
him. D’ye hear that, Sir Garnet Wolseley ? When
did you ever tempt your warriors to seek “the
bubble reputation even in Ihe cannon’s mouth,”
as this fine old Parramatta gentleman has done ?
Carver, the crack shootist, has already entered for
the 600 yards trophy, and Bogardus says he’ll come
over, too, if another patriot can be found to give
the cane a coat of striped paint, and throw in one
of Eastway’s patent rat-traps also. Tar-ran-ta-ra.
We are happy now. No more trouble
about getting cured! Here we see an enterprising
suburbau medical gentleman who tackles asthma,
cancer, and consumption (trifles, perhaps, in them-
selves) with equal confidence. We don’t know
which he is the greatest on; but we should say,
from the illimitable confidence he appears to have
in himself— consumption. The practitioner to
whom we are alluding has Dot gone through the
form of putting his name upon the medical regis-
try; but this is mere detail. He states in a volu-
minous ad. in a country paper that during the past
ten years he has attended Benefit Societies repre-
senting upwards of 1500 persons, and during that
period only two have been sick (and that for a week
only), and not one has died! This is the doctor we
have been whistling for for years, and we are now
hesitating whether we will go to him ourselves or
e >nd our dog. Do you see that luck is variable?
This medical person has had, apjmrently, a run of
it for ten vears; and it is time it ought to change.
On consideration, we think we will send our dog.
At Ballarat one Ah Chung (probably of
Eastern origin) observed a box on his counter. He
had not placed it there, so with the delightful
curiosity (it is a gross calumny to Suppose that
women have a monopoly of this winning character-
istic) of his sex and nation,he opened it. It contained
dynamite caps. Even then his curiosity was not
satisfied, so ne took one to learn what could be
learnt of it, without an instructor, but with a
hammer. He is now acquainted with the properties
of fulminating mercury. He is also a thumb and
three fingers short. His digits were short enough
before, but they are shorter now—at least in
number. Besides the unsightliness inseparable
from truncated members, his performances on the
“tom-tom” are somewhat interfered with, as the
artistic shake on which so much depends in
Oriental music has to be skipped or imperfectly
rendered. The peculiarities of nitro-glycerine and
its half-brother dynamite are now so well under-
stood that it is not easy to see what additional light
Ah Chung expected to throw on the matter by
actual experiment. One thing, however, is certain.
The confiding nature of this child of the Sun has
undergone such a radical change, and his desire to
study the fitness of things has received such an
emphatic rebuff, that the poultry belonginglto his
barbarian neighbours are suffered to attain a
1 mgevity and development to which they were
formerly strangers.
Mr Wright is right. Our tramway system
is a perfect farce—in that, for one thing, our trams
“ don’t pay.” That is to say, they don’t pay in the
hands of Government A private company—our
Omnibus Company, say—would make thousands
out of them. Here is a clip from the diary of a
man at Randwick: —“ Friday, 4th May—Took tram
6 p.m. from Sydney. Spring of motor broke;
passengers walked from sheds to Randwick and
Coogee. To make up for this, the 6.20 tram ran
into broken motor. Mr. Pokorney pelted his
head half way through my lungs, and I left four
of my best teeth in Mrs. M’Googarty’s windpipe.
11.15 tram stopped at racecourse gates, and Rand-
wick residents were then permitted to get out and
either walk home or go to the devil, just as they
thought proper. Saturday sth—Line clear, but
trams running on the go-as-you-please system.
Bicycle races at Association Grounds the cause.
(P.S.—A bicycle is a trotting-sulky wheel with a
three “ha’penny” dip at the bottom, and a two-
legged fool on top of it.) Sunday, 6th—lane
blocked for a time. Passengers packed ala tinned
sardines, only more so. Monday, 7th—Motor off
line. 11.15 tram kept an hour at Moore Park, just
to enable visitors to fully enjoy the scenery.
Tuesday, Bth—Trams running punctually. Several
residents dropped dead from fright in consequence.
Wednesday, 9tn—Motor off line. Public confidence
once more restored. Thursday, 10th —Motor off
line at Coogee. No tram from Sydney between
11.30 a.m. and 1 p.m. Ordered roast turkey for to-
day’s dinner, and got home just in time to see the
afternoon milkman’s dog putting himself outside
of the last scrap—the “Pope’s nose,” my favourite
morsel. Friday, 11th—Motor off Moore Park line
at noon. Several good Catholics began to curse, as
this was a special fish day. Saturday, 12th—Being
pressed for time, walked in and out, and thought
sorrowfully of several things.”
A recent D. T. reports what it calls “a
painful case.” A gentleman named Francis
Trimble stole two concertinas from Harris and
Ackman’s, and got fourteen days for it—just one
week, in fact, for each concertina. It is only a
man with a finely musical mind, who could have
any sympathy with a rascal who steals concertinas.
We have never been finely musical! n a concertina
sense, so are comparatively callous. Mr. Ackman
stated, in his evidence, that “about 1 p.m. on
' Saturday, whilst he was in his sale-rooms, his
attention was directed to prisoner as being a thief
of the concertinas.” If this be the case, Mr.
Trimble must have long been a very “ painful case”
in his own right-of-way! We reported, in an
aerial manner, some numbers ago, the case of a
woman stealing a pair of bagpipes. With her,
even if she did steal them, we can find some slight
sympathy. Because she couldn’t, you see, have
stolen them to play them. Nobody but a profes-
sional piper could find any pleasure in doing aught
with bagpipes except burning them, or making a
butter-churn out ot the bladder. Any woman, as
a matter of fact, who either steals a set of bag-
pipes or kills a piper is entitled not only to sym-
pathy, but (we consider, on reflection) to a fire-
man's medal or a statue. The distinction between
a bagpipe filcher and a concertina sneak
is thus made obvious. A man who will
play a concertina knowingly—much less steal
one —merits, to our mind, not 14 days, but
14,000. First amongst instruments of torture on
this earth ranks the dental forceps, next the
accordion, and then the concertiua. It may be not
generally known, but it is an historical fact [Only
tremblingly endorsed by us—Ed. B.] that when the
rack, “Little Ease,” “the Scavenger’s Daughter,”
and the thumbscrew were abolished in the Tower of
London, the introduction of the concertina im-
mediately followed. It is rumoured that when
Queen Mary wished to tire Lady Jane Grey of life,
she got Rfhiard, the Spanish ambassador, to play
“ Mollie Darling ” continually on that instrument
outside the Traitors’ Gate, near which ominous
entrance Jane was located. After two days of this,
the Queen of ten days sent round saying that all she
yearned for was the block. She got the block,
and concertinas triumphed. We wonder, by-the-
way, who introduced concertinas into the colony ?
But, whoever it was, we don’t recommend the man
to be confidential. None but the clergy now-a-
days are safe from our little hatchet. We mean
nobody connected however distantly with
musical instruments, either wind or otherwise,
especially otherwise.
The only thing left for Wiggins now.
“ Papa,” said a lad the other night after
attentively studying for some minutes an engrav-
ing of a human skeleton, “how did this man
manage to keep in his dinner ?”
£2ooo.—The “ Australasia Sweep ” on the
“ Melbourne Cup ” is for £2OOO, at ss. per share—
an even four, 20s. First horse takes £1000; second,
£500; third, £250; starters, £150; non-starters, £lOO.
Total, £2000; and £lOOO distributed in Prizes. Ke-
sults of drawing will be advertised in Svndey and
Melbourne papers, and result circulars‘mailed to
all subscribers throughout the colonies. Those
making application are requested to enclose notes
in registered letter; or if crossed cheques, payable
to “ Australasia ” or Bearer (with exchange stamps
added), and 4d. stamps for replv and result. Appli-
cation, as usual, by registered letter. Ten per cent,
deducted for all expenses. Address—“ Austral-
asia, ’ care of Mr. H. J. Franklin, publisher, 40
Hunter-street, Sydney.—Aditc.
FACTS AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Now that it is Saint Bartholomew’s Day
with the rabbits, the frequenters of eating-houses
are respecfully invited not to turn up their noses
at jugged hare... .The verdict of a N.S. W. jury :
“ We are of A Pinion that the decest met her death
from violent information in the arm, produst from
Unoan Caws.” The Northern Territory people
express great dissatisfaction at huge areas of
mineral land being dummied by Adelaide capi-
talists. ... A Gympie paper states that nearly all the
printers’ devils are “down with the measles.” It
does not say anything, however, about nearlyallthe
reporters being up with “the jumps.” —A well-
known Melbourne politician is “wanted” oyer a
dishonoured cheque....Typhoid fever, said a
doctor the other day, is an autumn epidemic. There
is a great deal of it just now in Sydney, while
Clunes (Vic,) has at present 90 cases—A Col-
lingwood (Vic.) witness, on being asked what
countryman he was, replied : “ Veil, I hardly
knows. My mother vas a German, and my vather
vas a Tipperary man.”....Kusbbrne, who is to be
hanged 23rd inst., has no idea of a future state. He
cries when visited bv Bishop Turner; at other
times he bursts into demoniac fits of rage— Hon.
W. Campbell remarks that by means ot a railroad
from the eastern shore of the Mediterranean, up
the Euphrates Valley, through Persia to India,
thence to Siam, and thence down to Singapore
(which is but five days’ steam from Port Darwin),
the trip to England would take, allowing that Port
Darwin and Sydney were connected by rail, only
sixteen days A carpet-snake 14ft. 6in. long was
killed on the Endeavour, while in a gorged condi-
tion. It contained two scrub wallabies—one (which
had been swallowed head foremost) as big as the
average bull-d0g...,A Belfast (Vic.) woman has
found a darning-needle inside a turkey—The
Northern Standard (Townsville) is about to be
published as a daily evening paper. The Northern
Miner, Thadeus O’Kane’s organ, will also appear
as an evening daily after Ist June—F. T. Wimble,
late of Wimble and Co., is about to start a news-
paper, the Post, at Cairns (N.Q.) A number of
Clarence River planters have selected on the
Russell (N.Q.) From one half acre of ground on
Albury Flat, Murray river, a Mr. Wright this year
obtained 400 gallons wine, IJ4 tons table grapes, and
2 cwt. of various kinds of fruit Between Milton
and Moruya2oo men are employed gathering grass-
tree gum, which fetches £BO per ton in the English
market. The men thus employed are reported to
be earning as much as £1 per day —900 tickets to
be issued for the Albury railway fete ; 9000 appli-
cants already The Melbourne Licensed Victu-
allers’ Gazette says that the members of the
New South Wales Parliament “are like the
swine of Scripture that were possessed by devils.”
We dare say. What else could be expected from the
liquor they sell in the Refreshment room?
This is how an euger public in a certain country
town get the latest cables from Sydney. A short
time ago the paper, which was dated and published
on the Tuesday of the week, was printed and
ready for issue on the Saturday evening previous!
But, then, this is the age of progress A woman
who died the other day of alcoholism had been in-
carcerated 86 times in 17 years The effects of
drought: Two seasons back T. Edols and Co., of
Burrawang, had 251,000 sheep, now they have
91,000 The black cap is still worn by N.Z. Judges
while sentencing prisoners to death In Albury
lives an aged woman, who kept tame hares and
rabbits, and sold them for food. Under the new
Act she cannot keep a rabbit under a penalty of
£lOO, Here is the hardest case under the law,
which she means to try and evade by commingling
the species A £4OO libel verdict has been given
against Thadeus O’Kane—The winner of the
Maiden Plate at the recent Parkes race meeting,
who was entered as Old Jack, is now
said to be Jack Sprat, a well-known performer
So much whisky Is sold round Nyngan that a local
landlord is able to bed down his customer’s horse
with straw bottle-envelopes This is how a
colonial-wine man manages to sell whisky. He
has a lot of little bottles tilled with earth, and,
when asked for a drink, he says: “I do not sell
whisky; but I am disposing of my property in
sections like these. They are sixpence a pop, and
—I give a glass of whisky in.” A large squatter
in Riverina, well known as a “tiger” at work himelf
hastaken five miles of the Jerilderie-Narandera rail-
way. And, as there isn’t a wrinkle about “ shovel-
ling ” that he doesn’t know, he’ll probably
make it pay at lOd. a yard, by using his own patent
scoop, getting goods wholesale, and killing his own
mutton The Victorian police complain that they
cannot live respectably and keep out of debt upon
a pittance of six shillings and sixpence aday
When Catherine Williams was convicted at Mel-
bourne of knocking another woman on the head,
the magistrate was told that she was an old of-
fender and had recently served a sentence for
larceny. Whereupon she screamed: “Don’t say
the wurds agin y lyin’ thafe av a bandy-legged
ould policeman. Your Worships, I deny the charge
of larceny. I was never up for anything so mane.
I have done two years for stealing £l5O in 1862, and
also have done another sentence for £3O and £4O
after that. Whenever I went for anything I went
for something good. I’m not a mane thief, your
Worship.” Six months—The berries growing on
the Stinging Tree of N. Queensland are said to be
a perfect cure for the frightful stings inflicted by
the leaves—Mr. M‘Lellan, once Minister of Mines,
asserts that gold to the value of £300,000,000 has
been extracted from the ground in Victoria A
scheme is already on foot at Cooktown to procure
cheap labour from New Guinea A Cooktown
doctor, who had just transferred himself to Roma
but had forgotten to transfer his bank account, in-
advertently gave a v alueless cheque on the latter
branch, and was arrested. Matters were righted
by wire The Temora newspaper men are still
at war. The other day an unmatured £2 promis-
sory note signed by one of them was publicly
auctioned, and was bought by the editor of the
opposition paper for 10s. Id. The aggrieved one
asks how it is that such savagery on the part
of a licensed auctioneer can possibly be allowed...
A Gippsland justice of the peace was fined in
Melbourne the other day for violently assaulting a
constable, who ejected him from the Theatre
Royal because of disorderly conduct At Bre-
warrina, Jack Doras, an aboriginal, stabbed his gin
Kitty clean through the lungs and heart.... Kelly,
Phcenix Park murderer, on his third trial, was con-
victed and sentenced to death,.... Five out of the
seven draught horses of a Goolagong farmer died
through eating wheat—A man named Harvey
Roulson has bitten the thumb off Mr. Hyde, an
auctioneer in Victoria. The portion of the thumb
left had to be amputated. Poisonous, as might
have been expected —George Morris, an Adelong
Treasury official, committed for embezzling £lO.
He said when he took the money he did not do so
feloniously—that during his six years’ service he
had been borrowing money at high interest At
Townsville, Brodziak and Rodgers got a £75 slander
vrdict against one Macandrew, who had sent them ae
telegram accusing them of having “doctored”
certain liquor sent by them to him.... At Charters
Towers (Q.), a small boy of 13 considered that a
black gin had “ insulted his mother;” whereupon
he took down the family gun and put 50 shot into
the black woman’s back. Remanded Four
Australian natives, two of whom stood 6 feet 4
inches and the other two 6 feet 3 inches in their
stockinged feet, met at Coleraine (Vic.) races; and
at a Sydney hotel, the other day, seven squatters
met, who aggregated 112 stone weight, and ave-
raged 6 feet 1 inch The other day a squad of
Victorian police, when put through carbine and
revolver practice, almost invariably failed to hit
even the target. Which reminds us that last week
a couple of dogs entered a N.SAV. police paddock
and chased the horses. A trooper was ordered to
shoot the intruders. Arming himself with a re-
volver, he advanced to within ten paces of the
canines, who stood looking at him, and emp-
tied Ills weapon without hitting the enemy
The sacred Bo tree, of Amarapoora, Burmah, was
planted 288 8.C., and is now thereiore 2170 years
old. In historic documents it is mentioned at dif-
ferent dates, as 182 a.d., 223 A.D., and so on to the
present day. To it kings have even dedicated
their dominions, in testimony of belief that it is a
branch of the identical fig tree under which
Buddha reclined at Uremelya when he underwent
his apotheosis. Its leaves are carried as st reamers by
pilgrims, but it is too sacred to touch with a knife,
ana they are only gathered when they fa 11....
A youth named Thomas Harris has been sentenced
to 14 days’ imprisonment for having exhibited an
obscene picture to a number of women, girls, and
boys at Temora The Ohau (N.Z.) Siamese twins
are dead. The small sickly one died about a
quarter of an hour before the other The coach,
a rickettv old omnibus, loaded with passengers,
was jerking its weary way along the main road
leading from one village tp another in the Illa-
warra district: the leader, a colt, very fractious.
The hind wheels of the hearse ditto. Cautious old
driver to nervous passengers: “Well, gentlemen,
I don’t want to frighten yer, but when you sees
me a-jumpin’ off first, it’ll be about time for you to
make tracks!” The distance, 25 miles, was accom-
plished in 11 hours.
* * *
Bradlaugh says he will pass the Affirmation
Bill, and is stumping England for that purpose—
Nearly 100,000,000 gallons of wine were made in
France last year from raisins Two Michigan
teamsters quarrelled; one stole up to his adversary
from the rear and chopped his head clean off. The
murderer was hustled out of the drinking saloon
and lynched hard by. His mates came to rescue
him, and, a general scrimmage ensuing, seven men
were shot The Montana (U.S.) people five times
half-hanged a murderer to make him confess.
However, he escaped, got frost-bitten and had his
feet amputated. He was tried and found guilty,
but, thinking that he would not be hanged by the
authorities, a number of masked men rushed the
gaol, went to the doomed man’s cell, tied his
hands, and hanged him over an iron railing
Three thousand policemen followed the remains
of a comrade to his grave recently in London.
Rich people can wear bogus diamouds, but
the cook gives herself away when she appears in
paste.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief;
a small bottle often cures. Ask for ‘“Arnold's”
and get it; spurious imitations are sometimes
offered.
The Town Clerk of the city is to be “ Wool-
cotted ” by the gentle Dan. O’Connor. Dan’s bill to
improve the character of the Corporation by
leaving the selection of aldermen principally to
geople who would be more likely to be influenced
y free grog than any other consideration is the
cause of the trouble. Speaking on the day of the
prorogation of Parliament, respecting the uncere-
monious treatment of the Bill in the Upper House,
Dan said: “He felt very much annoyed at the loss
of the bill, more particularly as he knew that a man
who was in the service of the citizens had in a most
foul manner told deliberate falsehoods to Mr.
Darley to prevent the bill being- passed. This was
the Town Clerk! [Mr. Trickett: A first-class
officer.] A first-class conspirator who made wilful
and malicious representations to Mr. Darley ! A
parasite who had lived on the citizens for years,
and who had misused his position over and over
again! A first-class officer who overlooked mal-
practices in connection with the Corporation ! He
would bring the conduct of this officer under the
notice of the citizens on an early date.” Dan was
very irate, and Mr. Trickett’s interjection seemed
to make him more bitter, as he went on to accuse
that member of having induced another member
to oppose the bill, although he did not do so
openly himself. The Piddingtonian indignantly
denied the imputation, and gave a bitter pill to
Dan—“ I am never afraid to state my opinions.
There is no skulking behind the scenes with me.”
Dan had not time to retort before “Black Rod”
made his appearance, and desired the wranglers to
go to the other House to hear the Governor trill
his “pr-r-r-ayer that the blessings of Divine
Pr-r—r-ovidence" might be extended to members
during the period when they would not be sacrific-
ing their time for “ the good of the country.”
Twenty-Two.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Twenty-two,
Debonair,
Crispbrown hair,
Eyes so blue,
Tnat the’sky
Flashes through,
Though night is there.
And the bare
Warehouse wall
Behind her rings,
Echoing sweet
Wafts of tone
As with all
She laughs and sings—
So musical
Her voice, the stone
Must repeat
And allure
Passengers,
Who else had shunn’d her,
To stay and wonder
How even such pure
Sounding chimes are hers—
The meaning she utters
Being foul as the slime in the gutters.
Twenty-two—
Walking the street
With aching feet, —
And Oh ! my sisters, the heart of you
Could you but know what she must do
For bread to eat !
Twenty-two,
Yet worn and old,
Yet young and fair ;
Her smile has told
Her wan despair;
Her jests arise
To emphasise
How Life is lies !
If here is Life—
If hers is living
Worth taking or giving—
Where is the knife
Which cuts more keenly
Than thus to be as she never should—
To have beggar’d her queenly
Womanhood ?
Naught is here.
Naught that stirs
Of her own in her own—
Any have known
Who chose to pay—
Any may know—
That is her way—
We made her so.
Twenty-two—
And none may restore her !
With That before her
She durst not view.
Twenty-two—
Hopes softly coo
Life’s lovely crown ;
Twenty-two,
And on the Town !
No wayward blasts of Passion
Can she claim;
She may be a fashion—
Be a name;
But changeless as the light
.Eons old,
Aions told,
Since Time was Time—
Whose ever be the blame,
Whatever be her crime.
Whatever be her shame,
She is the same !
She cries through day and night,
A vibrate, burning flame :
4 1 fill the greed of Humanity ;
I am the deed of Humanity ;
I am the seed of Humanity ;
I am the need of Humanity ;
For I am human —
For I am woman—
Nothing but brute
Through and through—
Prostitute—
Twenty-two.”


DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
ANGRY PARENT: “D’ye think I’ve been
slaving all the best years of my life just
to enable you to spark your girl to Clon-
tarf?”
A Wesleyan minister in Sydney standing
up for Roman Catholic dogma, and a Roman
Catholic clergyman in Lithgow taking part in a
Wesleyan tea-meeting. What next? The mil-
lenium!
Mr. Charles Bright’s speech at Bowie Wil-
son’s grave contained a good deal of what he
strongly condemned in others—dogma. Charles’
dogma was his reference to the future state. Poor
old Bowie, he said, was hovering about in the air-
taking a deep interest in the proceedings. Now,
what does Mr. Bright know, more than any other
priest, of the land beyond the grave ?
We hate the devil and all his works and
the world with all its pomps of course, but what
we hate most of all is to find Hunter-street
“stamp-pickers” setting up, at 5 a.m. on the
lovely Sawbath morn, halt-a-mile of a sulphur
and brimstone article on the crying necessity
for the strict observance of the first day of the
week.
The priest of St. Lorenzo Church, at Rome,
lately caused a placard to be affixed at the entrance
of the church announcing a sermon for sinful
journalists, their wives, or children. The editor of
the Fanfulla thanked the reverend gentleman in
a very funny article for his particular attention to
journalists, but at the same time expressed his re-
gret at being prevented from attending, having an
invitation to an oyster-dinner on the same
day. In consequence of this reply, the parson as-
sured his congregation in his sermon that the devil
had invented an ingeniously constructed “tor-
menting roast-jack” in order to grill journalists
in everlasting fire.
It will be remembered bow the prim old
maid who presided over a young ladies’academy
caused even the most hardened offenders to toe
the line supplicatingly, when, on the appearance
of insubordinate symptoms among the girls, she
threatened to “ call in the military.” So with us,
when an effort is made to upset some of the obser-
vances by which the Puritans—bless them!—suc-
ceeded in making the first day of the week a day
of gloom and depression, we are met at the very
threshold with the cries of “ Sabbath desecration,”
and “Continental Sunday.” For years people on
the Murray have been endeavouring to throw
open their libraries and museums to those who
must visit them on Sundays or not at all, but pre-
Judice has hitherto been too strong for them.
Sven Sydney folks are ever so much before the
Melbournites in this matter. Persuasion, irony,
laughter, have been tried at Melbourne in vain.
Reason and satire have alike failed to pierce
the dense wall of bigotry and superstition con-
fronting them. As Darwin despaired of winning
to his side middle-aged and elderly naturalists, but
looked to the young men for an acceptance, or,
rather, a fair consideration of his theory, so
Liberals in Victoria have to look forward to a new
feneration of divines before the principles they
ave at heart can hope to make headway. Before
they cease to be a laughing-stock to foreigners for
their inspired stupidity in passing Sunday as they
do, it will be necessary to have a few hundred
respectable funerals. Any time during the last
few years the proposal to open the museums
and art galleries on the first day of the
week has been on the carpet. The committee hav-
ing at last decided to try the experiment, the
inevitable white “chokers” close their ranks and
bawl “no thoroughfare.” The Dean of Melbourne
isto the “fore” as usual. It will be curious to
hear his answer on the great settling day up aloft
when the recording angel asks him why, with the
twentieth century almost on the horizon, he con-
demned John Smith to swelter the whole long
broiling summer’s day in the dens of Little Bourke-
street, and Jack Brown to booze in the filthy par-
lour of a Collingwood “shebeen,” because he
would not let them “desecrate” the Sabbath by
riding out to see the green fields round Sunbury,
or by loitering before the pictures they helped to
pay for. Of what avail in that supreme moment
will be the babble of “ Continental Sunday,” or,
“Sabbath desecration,” to those who helped to
brutalise their less fortunate brothers by denying
them the means by which their rugged natures
might have been reached and softened ?
* * *
Trouble at St. Mark’s, Darling Point.
The reverend “ vicar ” and the assthetic curate are
just now not on terms—The sittings in the C.
and E. edifice in a flourishing coast town in this
colony are 3s. for front seats, 3s. 6d. for the back,
per quarter. Its needless to say which section is
the more patronised....The Victorian Banner
says a dancing master can more readily than a
minister get the use of State schools 36 tons of
rabbits forwarded from Colac to Melbourne
recently.... Rev. E. C. Spicer and Charles Bright
debate on “Genesis v. Science” at the Protestant
Hall, May 32 and 23... .The members of the Single-
ton Mechanics’ Institute have decided against
Sunday opening by 31 votes to 14 ...Rev. E. J.
Luckie, another old R. C. priest, is dead. In a few
years there will hardly be a N.S.W. clergyman in
receipt of State aid. The deaths of the Revs. Luckie
and Quirk gives back to the State about £BOO a
year.
• • •
A Montreal clergyman seeking to discover
why his church had not been swept and dusted,
learned that the woman whose work it was had
died of starvation Joseph Cook has not made up
his mind at what precise moment the soul quits the
body. We can tell Joseph the precise moment when
his soul quitted his body. It was exactly the mo-
ment he was born ... In Londonderry a magistrate
took a freak to seize all the Sunday newspapers,
under some old Sunday desecration law still un-
repealed. He, however, got a reprimand from Mr.
Trevelyan, Secretary for Ireland.... There was a
free fight in a church in England a little while ago,
between the High Church party and the Low
Church party, and a large body (numbering over
50) of police had to be called in to quell it. This is
the pious method of Sunday amusement. Free-
thinkers prefer picnics... .Texas Legislature has
passed a law that, except railroads, drug-stores,
provision houses, and newspaper establishments,
no place of business shall be kept open on Sunday
between i) a.m. and 9 p.m M. W. Green, who
debated with Bright on Christianity, and with
Walker on Spiritualism, and who is now a member
of the N.Z. Legislature, writes to the Dunedin Echo
admitting the reality of Milner Stephen’s cures.
POLITICAL POINTS.
The Affirmation Bill has been rejected by a
narrow (literally a narrow) majority in the House
of Commons. Is a Briton’s word so brittle that it
cannot be relied on unless fortified by an appeal
to the Almighty ?
Buchanan did his Buchananest to strangle.
On technical grounds, the resolution affirming the
desirableness of the issue of free railway-passes to
school children. The inference is that a resolution
abrogating the right of barristers to travel free on
circuit would be of equal technical invalidity in
Buchanan’s eyes.
Mr. Wisdom, the ex-A.-G., said in the
Assembly, recently, of the Colonial Treasurer, who
interruped his speech with an interpolated and
logical “ nut-to-crack ” :—“ The Colonial Trea-
surer’s forte is interruption. His disorderliness is
so great that if by any stray chance he gets to
heaven, he will create a mutiny among the Arch-
angels.” Is this wit, or is it Wisdom ?
Ever since the Minister for Public Instruc-
tion dubbed M’Elhone a “ psychological phenome-
non,” the Upper Hunter ‘‘bruiser*’ has been so
increasingly enraptured with the density and
destructiveness of the phrase that he has included
it in his magazine of verbal explosives and nitro-
genous adjectives, even at the risk of displacing
such other combustible compositional compounds
as “sanguinary sot” and “shovel-faced swiper.”
Why was the Assembly listening to Dan
O’Connor moaning alone the rejection of his little
Bill like a recent audience at the Theatre Royal ?
Because the House was entertained with the
spectacle of a Roman awry. This joke would take
tne prize anywhere—for lameness. It is supposed
to have been concocted by Parkes before he sought
the seclusion which Faulconbridge grants to him in
whose heart shoddy loyalty pants.
The Upper House shelved Earnshaw’s
Estate Bill because sufficient information had not
been given respecting it. We want some informa-
tion other than that which is desired by the old
gentlemen who view with alarm the numerous
appeals made to Parliament to alter the terms of
wills. Was the Bill introduced in the Assem-
bly by a member of Parliament who belongs
to the legal profession ! Was it drafted and
and the preliminaries arranged by that member’s
firm? What was their bill of costs. £3OO, or less?
Was the amount credited to the firm collectively?
Was any portion of the amount for “attendance
before select committee?”
On March 25, in Paris, Mr. Parnell was
interviewed by a correspondent of the Vienna
Phesse. He declared that three out of the ten
men recently executed in Ireland were now known
to have been entirely innocent of the crimes laid at
HOOKEY—WALKER.
The spread of the blessing of civilization
among the heathen in New Zealand is proceeding
at a great pace. The native Land Courts illustrate
what these blessings consist of. Chief Judge Mac-
donald compared all concerned with his Court
with the jockeys, blacklegs, and gamblers who
crowd about a racecourse. The Judge said : “If I
am to believe all that is poured into my ears pri-
vately, there is not one amongst us engaged in this
Court who, by virtue of his conduct, is not fit for a
gaol or lunatic asylum.” Commenting on this the
N.Z. Herald says: “ For years past such stories as
he alludes to have been current. In almost every
important case it has been alleged that the assessor
had been bought by one of the parties, and the
precise sum paid was generally added; that Mr.
(one of the lawyers in the case) had got Mr.
(one of the pakeha-Maoris or interpreters in
the case) to make Te So-and-so drunk, and thus
keep him out of the Court at a critical time; that
had “ sold ” those who depended upon him,
having been seduced to do so by a Maori Delilah;
that one set of European purchasers had bought
the agents of the opposite side, who were selling
their clients. If reports were to be believed, every-
body concerned was fit for gaol. We must say
that our candid opinion is that a few years’ dealing
in native lands would corrupt the most upright
man in New Zealand, in whatever capacity he
might be engaged.” What a comforting thought
it is that we have in N.S. Wales some men whom
even a N.Z. Land Court would not corrupt! We
have Parliamentary land-agents whom even that
would not corrupt—more.
Mr. M’Elhone made a long speech oil the
question of the issue of free railway passes to
children attending schools, his object evidently
being to make himself right for a passport to
heaven, as must be apparent from these extracts:
—“ I bow to no man in God’s creation, be he Arch-
bishop Vaughan, Pope Peter, or Sir Henry Parkes;
I care as much for Archbishop Vaughan or the
Pope as the honorable member for Tenterfield
does. I care no more for them than I do for the
poorest blackfellow in the country. The fact of
the existence of the Pope or the Archbishop does
not deter me from fearlessly expressing my
opinion. ... I believe that religion is a sham,
a fraud, and a curse to humanity. Priests and
parsons who go about professing to have the love
of God in their hearts are often animated by the
spirit of the devil; they delight in trading on the
worst feelings of humanity; while they have the
word of God in their mouths they have the devil
in their hearts, and from their pulpits they sow
seeds of discord, not caring two straws what the
consequences may be. . . . We must all come
to the end to which I referred (death), and if we are
to believe the priests and parsons, when that time
comes every little thought which we ever had will
be revealed, and God knows what will become of
us then. Our sins will be recorded on a huge
black-board in bright colours to our dismay, and I
suppose that the majority of us will cut a very
sorry figure there.” What will the priests and
their faithful followers say to this “My opinion
is that if the father or mother cannot teach the
children religion the schoolmaster cannot, and the
priests and parsons will not because they have too
much to do—all that they care about is getting as
much pay as possible—worming as much money out
of the children as they can.” Tom Slattery attacked
M’Elhone for making such a speech,remarking that
it was cheap liberality to come before the As-
sembly and the country and to hold up the head of
your church to ridicule.” M’Elhone : He is not
the head of my church !” Mr. Slattery : The hon-
orable _ member belongs to the same church as
Archbishop Vaughan, and he acknowledges him
to be the head ot the Roman Catholic Church in
this country.” Mr. M’Elhone : “ I never did so.
I never acknowledged any tyrant to be my master.
* * £
The dual desertions—The Patriotic Brothers
have tied from Armagh, and M’Elhone has seceded
from the Ministerial ranks. But Armagh is none
the less Armaghed, and Stuart is still Premier, the
preceding desertions to the contrary notwithstand-
ing. .. . The Cook (N.Q.) electorate is in a deplorable
condition. John Walsh, one of its Parliamentary
representatives, has for years kept a store at
Wagga, N.S.W., and won’t resign; the other mem-
ber, J. A. Cooper, who is identical with the gor-
geous personage who the other day married a Vic-
torian heiress, has never set foot on the Palmer
except when passing through Byerstown on his way
to the Hodgkinson nearly six yeurs ago. The pair
simply poke fun at their constituents.
* * *
The food supplied to Carey is regularly
examined, to guard against poison During 1883
there were 5201 families evicted in Ireland, com-
prising 36,836 persons. The evident mystification
of the police as to the identity of Number One be-
gins to give rise to the impression that no such
being ever existed outside of James Carey’s inven-
tion .... Since Lady Florence Dixie’s last escapade,
people have been taking a retrospective view oi
her various published statements and proceedings.
Discredit is now thrown on much tnat she has
alleged respecting her Irish dealings, and it is
asserted that while acting as newspaper corres-
pondent in Zululand she forged a letter purport-
ing to be written by King Cetewayo... The Mor-
mons have been holding indignation meetings
against the Fenians; and at Milwaukee, which is
chiefly inhabited by Scandinavians, the people had
enough of Pigeon-English and bigotry to petition
Congress against the admission of any more “ Irish”
into the States. All this is positively delicious....
“A dynamite factory has been discovered at Gon-
stadt, near St. Petersburg.” Yet another inter-
position of Providence to enable the great Panjan-
drum-Baron Bigot—to devote the leisure hours of
his recess to framing a Loyalty Motion expressive
of Parliamentary sympathy with the Czar of all the
Russias—lf Mr. Gladstone is raised to the peerage
the Earl of Dalkeith will again contest Midlothian
in the Conservative interest Twelve owners own
nearly a quarter of Scotland. The Duke of Suther-
land owns 1,335,000 acres, or a fourteenth part of
the entire area of Scotland— Weekly Dispatch
asserts that one of the Land League auditors,
Harris, was a paid organiser of the League, but a
man with no capacity for figures; and that an-
other, Father Sheehy, made himself notorious by
his speeches on Land League platforms.
Hop Bitters {rives good digestion, active liver,
good circulation and buoyant spirits. Read larger.
At Yass Mechanics’ Hall, E. Leathert tried
to walk 110 miles in 34 hours, but only succeeded
in covering 107 miles 30 laps.
The S.A.A. Committee have decided to
have the live-mile race run over again. Mcßae
stopped in the 19th lap, under the erroneous im-
pression that the race was finished.
Parker, the Grammar School flyer, con-
siderably surprised the oldsters on Saturday by his
performance in his fancy distance, 440 yards. It is
quite evident that he is a match for any amateur
in the colony. A meeting between him and Met-
calf would be most interested.
Arsenic-eating has in the old world become
increasingly common. Women eat it in two
forms: the white powders, or arsenious acid, as
the drug deal era have it, and Fowler’s solution,
which the pharmacopoeia says is a mixture of
arsenic with potash in a fiuid form. Either way of
taking arsenic causes plumpness of face and
beauty of complexion. Its influence is principally
on the capillary surface of the skin, which pro-
duces the plumpness. In plain English, water is
the influence at work, and in the end it shows
itself. The skin assumes a watery transparency,
which in its turn gives way to ghastliness and
whitening of the lips. This is the awakening from
the blissful dream. Beauty vanishes and the end
comes. A very few years of peri od i cat ties mg-pubr
the vain one in her grave.
TJUBLIC NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1854,
late 483 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET,
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
Ob, TWO DOORS NORTH OF OLD SHOP.
City Catering Company
315 George Street.
USF A NEW CATERING COMPANY.
Comprised of professional workmen of long and
practical experience, nearly allrromthe ORIGI-
NAL FIRM of Compagnom and Co., who person-
ally superintend and carry on the working of the
business under one general manager.
It is not a public company, ana t herefore free
from all the expenses appertaining thereto.
N.B.—Since opening, on 27th April, 1881, we have
successfully catered THE LARGEST, MOST
DIFFICULT, and MOST RESPONSIBLE under-
takings that have taken place here to the present
time, viz. :
The Consular Dinner, in our new banquet room.
His Worship the Mayor’s Picnic, for 450, at Clon-
tarf, and Banquets, and all Entertainments.
His Worship the Mayor’s Ball, for 1800, Exhibition
Building, at which his Worship, John Harris, en-
tertained their R.H.’s PRINCE ALBERT and
GEORGE, Earl Clanwilliam, and the Olhcers of
the Detached Squadron.
Masonic Ball, English Constitution, for 1252. Exhi-
bition Building.
Masonic Ball, N.S.W. Constitution, at Town Hall
Sydney.
Visit of their R.H.’s PRINCE ALBERT and
GEORGE to Lithgow Valley Mines and Zigzag
Dinner d la Rime, for 60, in Government Palace
Dining Car while travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000 school children
—re Queen’s Statue Demonstration under
VERY SHORT NOTICE, only receiving the
order at 2.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot at 12 30
p.m. the following day.
Visit of THEIR R.H.’s PRINCE ALBERT and
GEORGE to Captain Cook’s Landing, south side
of Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon and refresh-
ment, for 100, under VERY SHORT NOTICE
receiving order at 9.30 p.m., to be ready on the
spot at 1 p.m. following day.
The Lady Mayoress’ reception, Town Hall
The (Union Club) “ Bachelor’s Ball,” at Exhibition
Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge Windeyer, in our
new Banquet Room.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge Innis, in our new
Banquet Room.
Dinner d la Russe, at St. Paul’s College, for 150
Members of the Church of England Synod
Dinner dlaßutmc, to the Intercolonial Rifle Teams,
Town Hall. *
The Luncheon and Refreshment for 500 ladies and
gentlemen at the turning of the flrst sod of
Hudson Bros.’ New Railway Rolling Stock
Works,” at Granville.
The luncheons and Refreshment Bars at Hawkes-
bury Races, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheons and Refreshment Bars at Rand-
wick Races, in Grand Stand.
Refreshments at Ye Fayre of ye Olden Tyme, St.
Mary s Cathedral.
Refreshments at Ye Olde Englyshe Fayre, Garden
Palace.
Together with a numerous lot of Private Picnics
Balls, Dinners, Feasts, &c., &c.
The CITY CATERING COMPANY let out on
hire Cutlery, Silver Goods, Crockery, Glassware,
Ornaments, and all requisites for Balls, Picnics
Dinners, &c. &c., and will be glad to send out the
smallest order for Pastry, Cakes, Jellies, Ice, Con-
fectionary, &c.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hand when
services required.
We have in our possession letters from gentle-
men in high standing in the city, complimenting
us on the manner we have performed the duties
entrusted to us.
CHAS. R. SMITH
(Late of the firm of the original Comnagnoni& Co.),
Manager.
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE, FOR INDIGESTION.
BILIOUSNESS, COMPLAINT, WEAKNESS, &c.
PRICE..
2s. 6d.
A. G. KEBBLEWHITE, Chemist, &c.
43 ERSKINE STREET ; and
W. H. SOUL, Pitt Street.
KOUMISS! KOUMISS!
ET THE GREAT MILK DIET.
CUKES
Indigestion
Heartburn
Debility
&c. &c.
*1
CURES
Diabetes
Bright’s
Disease
Consumption
&c. &c.
REGISTERED TRADE MARK.
KOUMISS is not a quack remedy, but is
prescribed and used by all the leading- Physicians,
and will POSITIVELY CURE the above complaints.
V e cordially invite the public to call at our office,
161 PHILLIP STREET, and judge for themselves
of the EXTRAORDINARY TESTIMONIALS al-
ready to hand from well-known citizens. Reference
is permitted to all the leading Physicians, also to
the following: The Lady Superintendent Childien’s
Hospital; Rev. G. Macarthur, King’s School, Para-
matta; Alderman R. Butcher, Mayor of Woollahra;
T. Hales, Esq., Manager S. O. Co.; Duncan M‘Kay]
Esq., Whittingham; Augustus Morris, Esq.; Rev.
J. J. Carroll, St. Augustine’s, Balmain ; Rev. Z.
Barry, St. Matthias, Woollahra; Capt. Rountree,
Balmain, and many others.
w. Walker and Sons,
FURNITURE MANUFACTURERS,
Bunhill Row, London.
Sydney Branch:
103 CLARENCE STREET, off Barrack Street.
Highest Award Sydney and Melbourne Inter-
national Exhibitions.
N E NTTr »f’ N H W YEAR-FURNITURE, FUR-
Nm. RE.—How to make your homes com-
iorrable. V hv, is to call at 11. LEVY & CO \S
CENTRAL FURNISHING ARCADE, 29, fflfand 33
Park-street, where you can get every description
ot Furniture, Bedsteads, Bedding, and every re
quisite for housekeeping. New Shipment of Goods
just opened. Prices not to be equalled anvwhei e
in the city. Come and judge for yourselveJ.
'j IME PAYMENT. TIME PAYMENT. TIME
» PAYMENT.-H LEVY and CO., Central Fur-
nishing Arcade, 39, 31, and 33, Park-street. The
only house m Sydney where you can furnish on
Nf w Time Payment System, from £lO to Jiooo!
No Bills of Sale. All Goods are Marked in Plain
I igures, and no deception.
Australian furniture. Australian
1 F e Ul f, N i T £ KE ’ We have a Splendid AssorU
merit of all the Newest Kinds and Shapes atPrice«
that will Defy Competition, on the New Time
ment System. H. LEVY and CO., CENTH A r
FURNISHING ARCADE, 39, 31, and 33 Park-street:


M'Gillviray’s Dream.
A FOREST RANGER’S STORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Just nineteen long years, Jack, have passed o er my
shoulders ~, .. „
Since, close to this spot, we lay waiting the foe;
Aye, here Is the mound where brave Percival
moulders, . „
And yonder’s the place where poor Norman lies
low.
’Twas only a skirmishjust eight of our number
Were stretched on the sward when the fighting
was done; , , ..
We scoop’d out their beds and we left them to
slumber— , , ... ~
The bold-hearted fellows went down with the
sun.
The month was October—young Summer was peep-
Througfi ever-green forests, where Spring, still
supreme, , , ~ .
Spread all the rich tints that she had in her keep-
jng
On tree, shrub, and bush, while each brooklet
and stream
With babblings of joy ran along to the river—
But, hang it, old man, I am going too far:
I talk as I used to, when from Cupid’s quiver
Flew darts of affection, my bosom to scar.
I’m not much at poetry, Jack, though I’ve written
Some nonsense in verse when my heart was aglow
With what they call love—have you ever been
smitten , . rtr . ,
By some artful minx, who deceived you ? What,
By Jove! you’ve been lucky; but, Jack, I’m
digressing: , _ ,
Our quarters wore here, under Tusk, and we
made , , _. .
Our camp in the Church, without asking a blessing:
This place is still known as the Manku Stockade.*
I’d fought with Von Tempsky along the Waikato,
I’d seen the green banks of that fair river dyed
With British blood—red as the plumes of the rata
When Spring scatters scarlet drops thick in her
pride. . ,
I cared not for danger, and fighting was pleasure;
The life of a Hanger was one of romance—
A dare-devil fool, ever ready to measure
A savage’s length with my rifle. Twas chance
That sent me amongst them: Hived but for glory—
My comrades were all of ffood metal and true,
Ana one was a hero; I’U tell you his story—
God rest poor M’Gillviray, brave-hearted Hugh!
r knew him for years, Jack, and shoulder to
shoulder
He’d stood by me often when swift leaden hail
Whizz’d close to our ears—Ah ! old mau, I was
bolder
In those valiant days than I’m now. To my
The morning was gloomy, and Hugh sat beside me.
We’d chumm’d in together for two years or
more; ,
I found him a brick, and he said when he tried me
In front of the foe, “Bill, you’re true to the
corel” ...
Enough, we were friends, and in trouble or danger
We stuck by each other in camp and in fray. j
How often we find in tho breast of a stranger
The heart of a kind brother throbbing away
With warmest affection, responsive and tender!
Hugh’s breast had a tenant like this, and I knew
Iu him I’d a brother, a friend, a defender,
Prepared for whatever a brave man might do.
The morning was dark and the outlook was dreary,
I noticed my comrade was sitting alone
All thoughtful, disconsolate, pallid and weary :
“Why, where has the gladness of yesterday flown ?
Come tell me, Hugh, why you are gloomy this
morning? ,
What change has come over my light-hearted
mate?
You’ve not,”—and I laugh’d—“had a Banshees
death-warning—
Have Brownies or Goblins been sealing your
fate ?"
He turned his pale face, while his eyes full of
sorrow
Met mine, and it seemed like the gaze of the
dead.
I spoke once again:—“ Hugh, we’ll meet them to-
morrow.
Fierce Rewi is coming this way: then he said—
“ Why am I sad ? Ah ! comrade kind,
We cannot tell why shadows fall
Across the soul and o’er the mind;
We cannot tell why dreams recall
Old scenes endear’d by mem’ry’s spell,
Old haunts where love and sorrow met,
Old spots where airy castles fell,
And Hope’s young sun for ever set;
We cannot tell why thought should leap
Across the ocean’s wide expanse,
And through the telescope of sleep
Review the dead years at a glance;
We cannot tell—but why should I
Philosophise ? We know we’re here,
And for the wherefore and the why,
That problem suits the sage and seer,
But not the soldier. Listen’mate,—
I’m not a coward, for I’ve stood
Full face to face with death, and fate
Has led me safe through scenes of blood ;
But now my hour is drawing nigh,
Life’s battle now is nearly done;
For me to-morrow’s arching sky
Shall canopy no rising sun.”
“ Why, comrade, you but jest,” I said;
“You shouldn’t joke with me, you know,
To-morrow’s sun shall shine o’er-bead,
And see us watching for the foe.”
“ Nay, comrade, we must part to-day—
A form has beckoned through the gloom,
And signall’d me away, away
To other realms beyond the tomb.
You smile, and count me as a slave
Of superstition ! Be it so:
My vision stretches o’er the grave—
I travel where you cannot go.
Ah! friend, you were not nursed beneath
The Highland hills, where every glen
Is filled with those who’ve conquered death—
Is tenanted with ghosts of men;
Ah! friend, your feet have never trod
The mighty Bens whose summits grim
Approach the starry gates of God—
Where heav’n grows bright and earth gets dim.
The legendary lore that chugs
Round Highland hearts, you have not felt,
Nor yet the weird imaginings
Which stir the spirit of the Celt.
Well, hear my story—listen, pray,
And I’ll explain why I am sad,
And in a down-cast mood to-day,
You smile again, and deem me mad.
lost night I was again a boy
Light-hearted ’mong my native hills.
Fill’d with a bright ecstatic joy,
And pure as my own mountain rills.
I stood beneath old Monagh Leaght
Not far from rugged Dunnaglass,
And in the distance I could see
Wild Farracagh’s romantic Pass.
A monarch proud, a youthful king,
Alone with nature there I stood;
Atpeace with God and everything,
For all His works seemed fair and good;
But best and fairest of them all
Was she who came to meet me there—
I little thought dreams could recall
Those silken waves of sunny hair.
That tender smile, those eyes of blue,
The magic of whose flashing glance
Inflamed my .soul with love, and threw
A glamour round me—joyous trance!
We met last night, just as of old,
And Elsie nestled by my side—
While playing with each tress of gold
I whisper’d: “Lassie, be my bride.”
The sweet soft answer came;— why dwell
On that dear moment of delight,
Our heaven was in that Highland dell
Where all seemed beautiful and bright.
y?e parted, and my dreaming soul
On fancy’s pinions forward flew (
O’er five short years, and reached the goal
That love and hope had kept in view.
Oh loyous day! a merry throng
Were gathered on the Clachan green,
The villagers, with dance and song,
Held jubilee—that happy scene
Is treasured in my memory still;
I hold again that little hand,
I hear the whispered word “ I will!”
I lead her through that cheerful band,
While Donald Beg,* and Fergus Mohr,t
And Angus Dhu,j the pipers three,
Strike up, while marching on before.
The slogan of McGillviray.
Oh! how the wild notes brought a flood
Of mem’ries bright and glories gone,
When, for the Royal Stuart blood,
Our chief led great Clan Chattan§ on
To famed Culloden’s field!—’Tis past,
That marriage scene with all its charms,
And Winter comes, with freezing blast.
To find my young wife in my arms;
And all the villagers, in tears,
Assembled round us. She was gone!
The prize was mine a few short years,
And I was now alone, alone.
Oh! what had Ito live for then ?
THE ADVERTISING DOCTOR IS SERENADED BY HIS FORMER PATIENTS.
One clasp, one look, one fond caress,
And flying far from each proud Ben,
With sorrow deem as dark Loch Ness,
I left my humble Highland home.
To gaze on Monagh Leagh no more:
With blighted heart I crossed the foam,
And landed on New Zealand’s shore,
You know the rest.’’
“ But what has all
This home-sick dreaming got to do
With death, my friend ?”
“ I’ve got a call
To meet my Elsie.” „ .
“Nonsense, Hugh!
I laughed, but still bis brow was sad:
“ Cheer up, and chase this gloom away,
There’s pleasure yet in life, my lad. ’
“ I tell you we must part to day:
I have not told you all that passed
Before me in my dreaming hours;
This day, with you, shall be my last.
True friendship, Bill, has long been ours,
And we must part in love, my friend.
You smile again—well, time will prove
Mv premonition true: the end
Is drawing nigh; Behold my love,
My life, my Elsie, on yon hill—
Ay, yonder hill is Monagh Leagh.
Just listen, friend, she’s calling still,
And still the dear one beckons me
Away; the sun upon the peaks
Is blushing crimson o’er the snow,
Behold how bright its rays and streaks
Are dancing on Loch Ness below.
Bich violet and purple clouds
A tabernacle form on high,
Behind whose folds the starry crowds
Lie hidden in the silent sky;
’Tis there, ’tis there! the same fond face
Which, but a few short hours ago,
Press’d close to mine; just in this place
My Elsie stood, and bending low
She whispered, in an icy breath,
“Oh IHugh, beholdtliy spirit-bride!
I’m here for thee—prepare for death;
Thy soul to-morrow, by my side,
Shall trace the scenes we loved of yore;
Again, my Hugh, my husband brave,
We’ll watch the Highland eagle soar,
We’ll see the heath and bracken wave.
Ah, Hugh! the spirit sight is keen;
We cross the ocean with a glance—
We know not time.” She left the scene
And I awakened from my trance.
But let us change the subject, mate;
Let’s have a smoke. Hark! there’s a shot—
One, two, three, four! we mustn't wait.
Where are our rifles ? Ah! we’ve got!
The darkies now. See, see, they dance
Before our eyes ! Hear how they yell!
There goes the order for advance—
There’s Norman out and Percival.”
M'Gillviray ceased, and we ran to the door,
Prepared to advance where our oflioers led;
Both Hill and O’Beirne were well to the fore,
While Norman and Percival rush’d on ahead.
Flash ! flash ! went our rifles, we followed their
track,
And in through a gap in the timber we broke;
We fired again and they answered us back—
The rebels I mean—as they plunged through the
smoke.
“ Now, back to the camp, lads, we’ve scattered the
swine—
They’ve tasted enough of our metal to-day I ”
’Twus Percival spoke, and we fell into line,
And back through the break in the bush took our
way;
We reached but the centre, when out from the
bush
That skirted each side with its branches and logs,
The Maories in crowds, with a yell and a rush.
Encompassed us—“ Boys, give the treacherous
dogs
A taste ot our true British pluck! ” A wild cry,
As a tomahawk’s stroke cut the sentence in twain,
Went in through the woodlands and up to the sky,
And Percival lay in the front of the slain.
Oh God! in my ears still rings yell after yell—
I see the bright tomahawks dripping with blood,
The wild demons looked as if painted in hell.
They leaped through the thicket and burst from
the wood.
Out-flanked and out-numbered, our officers dead—
A handful of men in the grasp of the foe—
What could we have done in such stress? so we fled
When Norman and Wheeler and Hill were laid
low.
We reached the old church, but the savages stay’d
To butcher the wounded and mangle the slain.
They vanished ere night in the forest’s dark shade,
To steer their canoes o’er Waikato again.
At day-break we went to the scene of the fray
To bury our comrades and bid them adieu!
And near a small mound where five savages lay,
We found brave M’GiUviray sleeping there, too.
Five warrior chiefs proved the work he had done—
They fell by his hand ere his soul went to God;
He smiled in the face of the bright morning sun
That shone on the purple streaks o’er the green
sod.
I planted a wattle to mark where he sleeps—
I wonder where is it ? Ah, there stands the tree!
By Jove, it’s in blossom, too ! Hee how it weens
Rich tears of bright gold o’er the hillock where he
Ig resting in peace. Is he dreaming there still
Of Elsie, his bride, and his dear Highland glen ?
This life is a puzzle. Jack, fight as we will;
We’re nothing at last but the shadows of men.
The substance soqp blends with the blossoms and
weeds
That spring to the surface: and as for the soul,
Perhaps it may flourish or fade in its deeds,
Perhaps, when it leaves us, ’tis lost in the Whole,
Welling ton, N.Z.
THOMAS BRACHEN.
* On October 23rd, 1863, a skirmish took place at
Manku Stack ado, In which the subjoot'bif ttilsrpbem
afid Sevan Others were killed.
t Ttfd G're'y Mountain.
* Little Donald, t Big Fergus, t Black Angus.
LA McGillviray led the CSan Macintosh, or Chin
CSlatum, at Culiudea.
BEAD IT ALL.
It may Save your Life.
hop bitters
ARE
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buchu, Mandrake, and Dandelion.
“ The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘ and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and in addition contain all the best
‘ and most effective curative properties
‘ of all other bitters, being the greatest
‘ Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
* nod life and health restoring agent on
* earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Aged
and Infirm.
‘ATo Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
‘ Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
‘irregularities of the Blood, Stomach,
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
these Bitters are invaluable, being
‘ highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
‘ without intoxicating.”
“No matter what your feelings or
‘ symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
‘ wait until you are sick, but if you only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
once. It may safe your life. Hun-
dreds have been saved by so doing, at
‘ a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“.Do not suffer yourself or let vour
friends suffer, but use and urge them to
use Hop Bitters.”
“ Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
drugged, drunken nostrum, but the
purest and best Medicine ever made,
‘and no person or family should be
without it.”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO.,
Melbourne, Australia, Rochester, N. V., U. S.
A., Toronto, Loudon, Antwerp, Paris.
GRAHA
531
George St., Sydney.
Palace of Fashion
and Art.
The Apparel oft proclaims the Ulan.”
MK. J. GRAHAM has recently returned from
a Special
BUSINESS TOUR
in the United States and Europe (London, Paris,
Berlin, &c.), and has'arranged for the introduction
per each Mail Steamer of the
Newest, Costliest, and Most Fashionable
CLOTHING MATERIAL,
simultaneously with their introduction by the
fashionable Houses of London and Paris, &c.
CLOTHING is made up at the shortest notice by
the best talent in Australia and London, and exact
reproductions of London and Paris Fashions in
Art and M aterial guaranteed.
Ballroom and Bridal Outfits, and Evening Dress
Suits, in a style unequalled or unsurpassed.
Mr. J. Graham speaks through the Press to the
gentlemen in the most distant parts of the interior.
Prompt attention and Advice givenin matters of
Dress, Style, &c., with instructions for measure-
ment, free of cost, and the best and most satisfac-
tory results guaranteed.
For the protection of the Public, the name
GRAHAM and the figures 531 are of mammoth
dimensions—the largest on any establishment in
all Australia.
The Fashionable World of Australia, and
the great middle class of the cities and towns as
well, are requested to continually note the an-
nouncements in this column, from
J. GRAHAM, Tailor,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IF your Chemist or Grocer cannot or will not
supply you with the “PAINLESS CORN
RELIEVER,” write direct to the Registered Pxo-
prietor, who will forward a bottle to all parts of
Australasia, Post Free, for 2s. 6d.
Address:—JOHN CLOWES,
One Mile Creek, Gympie.
T\ ANClNG.—Professor WEST returned from
JLJ Europe. Beginners and advanced hall classes,
Mondays and Thursdays, at 8 p.m.; afternoon
classes, Mondays and Thursdays, LSQ p.m.; Special
Waltz and Minuet classes, Wednesday, 6 p.m.; pri-
vate lessons daily. New waltz taught in six lessens.
All wishing lessons apply 261 Elizabeth-street.
Pupils informed all old dances taught first, then
waltz, quadrilles, French cotillions, minuet de fit
cour, latter danced everywhere by the (see
London, Paris, Berlin, and New York papers). The
minuet may be danced by one, twp, or lour peop.e
duly at parties.


The Referee.
SPORTING PIXTURES.
[We shall be glad to have this index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general .]
RACING.
A.R.C. (Adelaide) Autumn May 19,24, 26.
Glen Innes Autumn iMa ST
Newcastle J.C m-vST at
Murrurundi Races >la 'w St'
Mudgee T.G gay 24.
Pl'atlsbure and Wallsend Amateur T.C May 34.
Sydney T.C g a £
Bourke J.C. . . **ay 34,-5.
Queensland T.C— £?•
Mudgee Tattersall’s Meeting-
Coonamble J.C
Mackay T.C June 13, K.
Clarence River J.C. Annual Jul Lt;l ™
Deniliquin Racing Club iq
South Varrego J.C • • July 18. W-
pimm» p t«ic.:.. ;::.-??rB5ASi 2:
Clarence River J.C. (Amateur) November 9.
PEDESTRIANISM.
BlayneyA.C ajr
AQUATICS
Champagne Cup June 16.
COURSING
Victoria Club • • Ma £ 3®* J un ® 20*
July 18, August 33.
South Australian Club .June 13, July 18.
Ballarat Club. .May 34, June 38, July 3b, August 28.
N.S.W. Club May 34, June 38, July 31.
Australian Club May 35, June 14, July 37,
August 39.
BICYCLING.
Suburban Bicycle Club Sports May 36.
Sydney B.C. Sports August 4.
FOOTBALL.
South Melbourne v. Sydney Clubs, As-
sociation Ground ■ • • • ■ ..July 7,10,1-.
South Melbourne v. New South Wales,
Association Ground July 14.
BOXING „
Miller v. Foley Ma^
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The University Football Club, which has
some fine raw-boned recruits, promises to be the
strongest this season.
The various competitors for the Krug con-
test, which takes place on the Parramatta course
in June next, are steadily preparing for the fray.
George Perkins, the English sculler who
has g-one back to row for the Doggett coat
and badge, threatens to return after a year to Aus-
tralia.
The Victoria R.C. announce no less than
£14,135 for added money during the coming season.
When, moreover, it is considered how greatly this
lump sum will be increased by sweepstakes, then
does it really seem that the turf of Australia is
becoming an El Dorado for horse-owners.
W. S. Hazelton, the champion bicyclist of
Victoria, has competed in 41 races, winning 23 first
prizes, eight second, and six thirds. At the M.B.C.
sports, in the mile race, he did the fastest time in
the world, beating even Dr. Cortis, the English
amateur’s, record. So says a Melbourne contem-
porary.
The wrestling match, Miller v. Blackburn
comes off on 33rd June, at a place yet to be decided
on. Both men have excellent records—Blackburn
in England and Miller in America. The former is
said to have stood up for five hours against the
champion of England, and to have finally made a
draw of it.
The forthcoming contest for the Krug Cup
Is likely to bring a fine field together. We are glad
to see Mr. Fittes, of Victoria, intends going for it.
Mr. Sharland, we hear, is in great form, and means
to show well up. As for our own men, Brett is
very confident. He and Gaden should decently
represent this colony.
Hazael, the little Englishman who defeated
O’Leary at New York, accomplishing 600 miles,
has arrived in New York, where he intends to
open a pub. He is still prepared to ruu any man
in the world 10 or 100 miles. He says he is well oft,
and in good health. By the way, O’Leary is under-
stood to assert that his defeat in his late match
with Edwards was caused by his having been
drugged.
Says the Spirit of the Times “ The
victories of Hanlan in England have had the effect
of giving British and Australian oarsmen so severe
a set back, that the production of even second-
rate scullers among Britain’s vaunted stalwarts
seems to have been checked. As George Lee’s ex-
perience proves, our oarnsmen of repute can no
longer find a competitor in England.” Acccording
to this there should now be a fine field in England
for our coming professionals.
Seven members of the Melbourne Bicycle
Club started on the 39th ultimo, from the Eastern
Hill, at 6 a.m., with the intention of putting away
100 miles in 13 hours ; but, accordng to their state-
ment, they were compelled to return, “ owing to the
fresh breeze,” after doing 14 miles—the first 10 of
which they completed under the hour.. We want
to know whether the Licensing Act is as stringent
in Victoria as it is here, and how many public
houses there are between Keilor and Melbourne ?
With regard to the proposed visit to Eng-
land of an Australian football team, an English
paper remarks:—“lt is not in the Englishman’s
nature to like to be beaten or to take it contentedly.
Happily few opportunities of manifesting ill-will
occur at cricket; but at football, where two sides
would be engaged in violent personal encounter,
a word or accident might provoke a hasty re-
joinder, and a scene afterwards regretted. It is
better, perhaps, therefore, that there is no prospect
of a meeting.”
The Fawn has proved a perfect mine of
wealth to Mr. Andrew Town, who received 200
guineas for her first foal Richmond, 600 for Bos-
worth, 800 for Richmond Belle, 1500 for Palmyra,
2100 for Segenhoe (the second thousand being given
provisionally that he won the Maribyrnong Plate),
3JOO for Warwick, and 1950 for the yearling pur-
chased by the Hon. James White last January, or
in all 9050 guineas. She has another filly this year,
a id when sold this will no doubt bring the total up
to 10,000 guineas.
J. Sexton and H. Williams concluded a
match to walk six days, fair heel-and-toe, for £5O,
at Newport, Monmouthshire, England, March 10.
The attendance was exceedingly light throughout,
scarcely paying expenses, but the contestants
stuck to their work with a determination born of
the purest pluck, and Sexton was ultimately pro-
claimed the winner, with 505 miles to his credit.
Williams’ score was 500 miles. There is some talk
of Edwards going home, but after this we think he
had better wait in Australia for “soft things.”
It is not only as a cricketer that Mr. Bligh
h is made a reputation. In 1876 he was the racquet
champion at Eton, and three years later saw him in
tne same position at Cambridge, for which he was
successful in the Inter-University match. He has
played football with fair success; but tennis has
had greater charms for him, and he is estimated as
one of the best tennis-players of the day. In 1879
he won the tennis handicap at Cambridge, and in
the same year represented the University in the
tennis match witli Oxford. All round there are
few better or more popular athletes than the Hon.
Ivo liligh.
The S.A.J.C. held its second day’s racing
on the 10th, with unusual success, weather being
all that was desired. Sting’s win for the Cup was
a great throw in for the bookmakers. Appended
are the results Selling Hurdle Race: S. Tantrum’s
Anon, B. Dornwell’s Shamrock, J. H. Hill’s Light-
foot. All-aged Stakes: S. Barnard’s Dirk Hatter-
aick (2 years), W. Gordon’s Bis Bis (2 years), W. R.
Mortlock’s Royal Irishman (3 years). Autumn
Handicap: Israelite, Paul, Prince Patrick. Maiden
Plate: R. Love’s Hurricane (2 years), R. Griffiths’
Cardinal (3 years), T. Jordan’s Royal Highness (3
years). Nursery Handicap: T. Elder’s Monsoon
(by Gang Forward out of Typhoon), J.H. Aldridge’s
Sardius (late Emerald), J. H. Hill’s The Lawn.
Adelaide Cup: Sting (Bst. 9ft.), Plunger (Bst. 3ft.),
Guesswork (Bst. sft.)
At the Wilcannia Annual Races, the
Hurdle Race was gained by a gelding called The
Quack, who, on the same afternoon, won the Fly-
ing Handicap, getting third in the W.J.C. Handi-
cap on the second day, and beating the favourite
hollow in the Farewell Handicap on the extra
afternoon. Another gelding named Slow Tom,
after winning the Maiden Plate, also beat the field
in the Town Plate, and the next day landed both
the WJ.C. Handicap and the Members’ Plate,
welter weights. The principal event of the meet-
ing, the Wilcannia Handicap, of 300 sovs., fell to
another gelding, the little grey, Wee Jim —so well
known on the Sandhurst and other country
courses—who carried the steadier of 9st 31b, and
this was the only race he started for. The wind-
up event on the second day was run by the light
or the moon, such as it was, and it took some
trouble to distinguish the placed three out of the
eleven starters.
Horse-racing and honesty are generally
supposed by most steady-going people to be but
cool acquaintances. This supposition may be
somewhat high-coloured, but such a revelation as
that made by “ Nemo” the other day—of which we
give the gist—is ground enough to justify a con-
siderable amount of suspicion. Before the Rand-
wick meeting Mr. E. E. Jones, the bookmaker,
received a letter from a Mr. M., a Wagga man,
asking odds on certain horses. Mr. Jones asked for
a cheque or a reference. A reference to a squatter
near Wagga was given, and “ the squatter” replied
in a few days saying that all was right, and would
Mr. Jones give him 1000 to 80 over something. Mr.
Jones did, and all the bets were booked. None of
the horses won. And when it came time to settle
up it was discovered that there was no Mr. M. and
no such squatter in existence. Also that the
letters had been sent by a clique, consisting of a
saddler, two blacksmiths, and a bootmaker, all
residents of the Southern district.
J. G. White, one of England’s greatest
scullers some twenty-five years ago, has settled
in Maryborough (Q.) During his rowing career he
pulled 75 races, winning 67, and beating such men
as George Drewitt. J. Finnis, and Harry Clasper
—the race with the latter over the champion
course, from Putney to Mortlake, being the fastest
then on record. In France, in the year 1857, at
Paris and Rouen, he won four races in one day,
being in each race pitted against a fresh man. For
this feat he was decorated by the late Emperor
Napoleon personally, receiving at his hands two
splendid gold medals, and was highly compli-
mented by his Imperial Majesty on the prowess he
displayed on the occasion. He has also been de-
corated with a massive gold medal by the King of
the Belgians for rowing performances in Belgium.
He twice challenged Harry Kelly, the ex-champion
of England, for a stake of £2OO, but Kelly would
not pick up the gauntlet. He was, however, after
one of the most successful careers on record, at
last defeated by that wonder of his age, Harry
Chambers, in a race for the championship of the
United Kingdom. Out of the numerous trophies
he has won in his time, he has brought to Mary-
borough—the Dogget coat and badge (one of the
greatest curiosities probably ever seen in the
colony), the medals presented to him by Napoleon
111., some valuable rings, and a number of other
costly presents received at various times from dis-
tinguised personages, the Prince of Wales in-
cluded.
William Lewis, who for many years has
followed the not very lucrative business of catch-
ing live rats for a livelihood, on the evening of
March 17, in Frankford, Philadelphia, undertook,
for a stated wager of £5O, to pick up and place in
an empty whisky-barrel 100 frolicsome rodents in
one hour. About fifty persons were present, each
of whom was taxed a dollar to see the novel per-
formance. A space eight feet square was sur-
rounded by a four-foot-high fence, the floor being
thickly covered with sawdust. The rats were con-
fined in tin-lined wooden cages, two containing
forty each and the other half as many. Lewis wore
a sleeveless undershirt, pants tied securely around
his ankles, and heavy shoes, and his hands and
arms were liberally dosed with musk, as a preven-
tive against bites. The scene is thus described:
“ Forty rats were dumped into the pit. They
darted wildly around through the sawdust, and
made vain endeavours to scale the fence. Then
they huddled in a wriggling mass in one corner,
and the judge gave Lewis the word to begin. He
moved over to the pile of rats, and, without an
instant’s hesitation, thrust his naked hands and
arms among them. He caught five fat fellows and
dropped them into the barrel. He next picked up
three, then four, then two, and so on until six
minutes had expired, when he had placed twenty-
one of the rodents in the barrel. The rats that re-
mained in the pit were wild, and Lewis was com-
pelled to catch them one at a time. The first single
rat he picked up bit one of his fingers through the
nail to the bone, and hung there. Lewis jerked his
hand up and sent the vicious rat against the ceil-
ing. The wounded finger was dipped in whisky,
and the chase was resumed. Seven rats were picked
up and deftly tossed into the barrel, and then
Lewis was bitten twice on the right arm. He re-
ceived four more wounds before the fortieth rat
was imprisoned in the barrel. Then forty more
were dumped into the pit. Lewis worked with
great agility, and rat after rat was picked up and
dropped into the barrel with amazing rapidity.
The fifty-seventh rat he attempted to touch sprang
in his face as he stooped, and bit through his lower
lip. Without flinching, he grabbed the rat and
tossed it through the canvas cover. He lost five
minutes staunching the blood that flowed from
his lip. In picking up the other twenty-three rats
he was bitten slightly five times. Eighty rats were
in the barrel, and Lewis had only seven minutes to
J>ick up the remaining twenty. The time was too
imitea, and Lewis gave up the job and got out of
the pit.”
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
At Wagga, Treehy has beaten Hancock and
Jones in foot-races for small sums Abe Hicken,
of pugilistic fame, is in trouble at Melbourne, for
refusing to admit the polioe to his hotel A foot-
ball club under N.S.W. Association rules formed at
Newcastle ffm. Kirkwood, of Wanganui (N.Z.),
in shooting at a pigeon riddled his seven-year-old
son. Result fatal....A report was current in
Sydney, on Thursday last, that a cable had been
received to the effect that Slade and Sullivan had
fought in America for the championship, and
that the latter had won. However, the rumour
appears to have been a canard—Two magnificent
St. Bernard dogs, which are said to have cost some-
thing like £l5O, have been imported to Sydney by
a legal gentleman. The male animal is the biggest
dog yet seen in N.S.W. But our climate does not
suit the St. Bernard, which, encountering the heat
of summer, often becomes semi-delirious. These
dogs would thrive in the Monaro country The
much-talked-of 300 yards’ race at St. George,
between R. Heydon and J. Single, for £lOO a side,
proved a wretched fiasco. Heydon, after the first
100 yards, did as he liked and won in a walk
O’Leary leaves for ’Frisco by to-day’s ’Frisco mail.
J. Dawson and Spruce are to run at Wallsend,
for £5O a side Believing that the acceptance or
Hannibal, winner of the Hamilton (Vic.) handicap,
was not paid in proper time, the owner of Poor
Me (which horse x-an second) is bringing an action
against the Racing Club for £lOO, the amount
that would have been won him had Hannibal
won the race and Poor Me not been in it ....
A kangaroo, measuring 9ft from tip to tip, killed
at Norwood, Goulburn.... Several handsome prizes,
including a diamond bracelet and the Severance
Handicap of £lOO, offered for Glen Innes Queen s
Birthday Races Newcastle C.C. gives a benefit
to the veteran cricketer, W. Tracey, on Queen s
Birthday.... E. Underwood, who pulled off the big
pigeon handicap the other day, has been beaten by
E. Craig, at Quirindi At Tuinut, in a single
wicket match between 0. Carroll and B. Cohen,
the latter won by 34, not out, against his oppo-
nent's 1 The racehorse Terminus, which had its
throat cut a short time ago, won two important,
events at the late Hillston races. Life in the old
horse yet.. ..There is now living at Finghall, near
Richmond, an old woman, named Nanny Weig-
halls, who is 102 years of age. So far from believ-
ing her end to be near, the venerable dame was, a
day or two ago, talking of purchasing a new cloak
....When, in 1879, at Wagga, Edwards essayed to
walk 130 miles in 36 hours, Dr. Wren examined his
pulse after he had walked 34 hours, and found it
beating no faster than a labourer’s would have
beat who had simply been performing an
ordinary day’s work. The doctor pronounced
Edwards as a man of extraordinary phy-
sical endurance, with the heart of a 1i0n....
J. U. Groube has the highest batting average in
Victoria, with 63-30. Most in an innings for the
past season 91 “Jumbo” Walker has been
elected captain of the Redfern Football Club....
The Redfern Football Club open the season with a
scratch match on the 19th at Moore Park—The
Blayney Athletic Club offer a very nice and liberal
little programme for 34th, consisting of a dozen or
more events, calculated to bring good fields
together The professional bicycle race between
Rolfe and Irish and Thomas, the last two relieving
each other, at Melbourne, resulted in a win for
Rolfe through Thomas carrying away part
of his machine. Rolfe was awfully done up,
and had to be carried into the pavilion—
The other day, off Bradley’s Head, a mullet was
captured in whose stomach a poker-hand of five
cards was discovered. It consisted of four dia-
monds and a spade. We can sympathise with a
mullet or any other man who has been playing
poker under distressing circumstances. The fish
in this instance had been captured evidently
because it was tired of life, and resorted to this
means of leaving the briny. This is the way fishes
have of committing suicide. This mullet has
quite clearly been “drawing” to fill a four-flush,
and the spade that fell to it broke its heart—The
Melbourne Football Club, anticipating a great at-
tendance of bicyclists at their annual sports, have
offered a prize to the club which is most
numerously represented and best equipped
Mr. Bell, captain of the Melbourne Bicycle
Club, sprained both wrists by a fall last week
George Giffen, the well-known cricketer, is about
to open a pub. in Adelaide... .The Canterbury
Times understands that Sir Modred will leave
shortly for N.S.W., consigned to the care of his
owner, Mr. Proudfoot, who is at present on a visit
to this colony. It is not decided yet who is to
accompany the Canterbury Cup hero—Reform,
winner of the Auckland J.C. Steeplechase, and
half brother to theiiiotorious Mata, was offered for
sale at Auckland, but failed to find a purchaser—
The valuable thoroughbred horse, Palmbearer,
who ran second in the English Derby three years
ago. was consigned by the Halcione, which arrived
at N.Z., recently, from London, to Messrs. Clifford
and Weld, of Flaxbourne (N.Z.) Unfortunately,
however, the animal died during the voyage—
Captain Dundas, a gentleman well-known in sport-
ing circles, has been offered, and has accepted, the
office of clerk of the course for the Canterbury
Jockey Club.... Over £5OOO passed through the
totalisator at the Auckland Autumn meeting —
St. Andrew, by Proto-Martyr—Sibyl, has been sold
to Mr. E. Weeks, who will take the colt to India—
The winter programme of the V.R.O. is much the
same as last year, containing, as it does, five events,
viz., Maiden Steeplechase of 150 sovs., Grand
National Hurdle Race of 300 sovs., Grand National
Steeplechase of 400 sovs., Selling Hurdle Race of
100 sovs., and Flat Race of 150 sovs—The old Pert
is playing great havoc in Melbourne waters. She
scored another very easy win last week.. . .Owing
to the protest entered against Slow Tom, winner of
the Maiden Race at WQcannia, the stewards have
adopted the curious course of holding the rather
large amount of prize money won by his owner—
The Alexandria v. Peninsula C.C. met at Double Bay
on Saturday last, the result being an easy victory for
the local team by 95 runs and six wickets to fall.
The visitors, who went in first to bat, were unable
to make any stand against the excellent bowling
of J. Macintosh and H. Ellis, the total being 32, ol
which Noble contributed 12. At the call of time
the Alexandrias had lost four wickets for 127, T.
Van Heekeren making 21, T. Ridley 35, and W.
Smithers (not out) 55; Champion being the only
bowler who appeared to give any trouble It
would not be surprising to find, when the mail
arrives, that Prince Batthyany’s sudden death at
Newmarket was, in a measure, brought about by
the excitement incidental to the victory of the son
of his Derby winner, Galopin, in his big Spring
race Largan, while passing through Melbourne,
attributed his non-success in Sydney to his not
having kept rowing in view while passing through
America on his way out here, and local climatic
influence. Being used to a colder climate than
ours he could there do a deal of work, which he
was unable to do in Sydney. Directly he at-
tempted to do any extra exertion he felt done up,
andhad not the required energy during the heat—
Hubbub has been entered for the Hunt Club
Steeplechase under the new and designedly sar-
castic name of “ Harper-Thompson.” Factory
Girl, who went a-missing some months ago from
Dunedin (N.Z.), has turned up in Melbourne as
On Dit Alhambra left Melbourne for Adelaide
Monday week; and, as the horse looked remark-
ably well, he should give an account of himself in
the South Australian steeplechases. Mr. Martin
was offered 400 sovs. for the horse, but refused it.
At a committee meeting of the V.R.C., Mr.
C. B. Fisher was elected chairman, vice Captain
Standish (deceased), and Sir W. J. Clarke was
appointed to fill the vacant place on the com-
mittee Most of the entries of Mr. E. K. Cox for
the coming events of the A. J.C. are geldings, which
seems rather a new move on the part of the Fern-
hill breeder A Gun Club is being formed at
Brisbane. . . Mr. Robert Campbell, of Tumut, re-
cently fired his ramrod clean through a duck on
the wing A. J. Kenney, who has challenged
Walter MTndoe, the champion swimmer, won the
South Melbourne Swimming Championship
Midwinter, the cricketer, has recently cleared
£2OOO buying and selling stock in Sandhurst On
May 19 the first Redlerns play a scratch match on
Moore Park. On the following Saturday they
meet the Arfomas. On June 2 the second Red-
ferns meet Burwood, on the latter’s ground.... The
Victorian Trotting Club are giving another of
their mixed programmes on Saturday, 36th May,
the date for nomination being next Monday, 14th.
There are to be five items on the card, a “ Free for
All” Trot; a five furlongs Flying Stakes; a six
furlongs Selling Race; a mile and distance Handi-
cap; and a mile and distance Hurdle Race. An
entrance fee of only 1 sov. is charged for each of
these (tne Trot being but 10s.), and 1 sov. at scale..
The case of Hubbub’s trainer will be considered
on his (Coffey’s) return from Adelaide.
* * *
Gr. H. Hosmer has renewed the challenge
he issued to o. i!,. tuunuej last season, xte s«tj s ..e
will row him alone for £lOO Or £5OO, three miles
turn; or, to make it more interesting, he will agree
to let G. W. Lee and J. H. Riley join in, each man
to put up £lOO, to row in July, the naming of the
course to be left to the referee—John S. Prince,
bicyclist champion of America, has ordered of the
Pope Manufacturing Co. a “Columbia racer,”
which will be constructed especially for use on the
fine bicycle-tracks of England. It will have a
54-inch wheel, %-ineh rubber, and will weigh 281 b.,
which is lighter by several pounds than any
machine ever made in the country. It will be very
close built, the backbone being within a quarter of
an inch of the rubber, and the saddle will rest
directly on the backbone. The handle-bar will be
thirty inches long and will drop one inch at each
end. It is intended to show English riders how
absurd is their opinion that an American manu-
facturer cannot make a first-class racing machine...
Sullivan, is said tp have cleared £6163 by his Mam-
moth Show in March, at Boston—Prince, the
American champion bicyclist, recently did the mite
in 2 min. 59 sec., and two miles in 6 min. 111$ sec..
William Sherriff, alias “ Prussian,” challenged
Charles Mitchell, champion, on the eve of the
latter’s departure from England. In view of the
fact that the challenger was aware weeks previ-
ously that Mitchell was to start for the States at that
time, his action was rather cowardly, and not a bit
like business. The champion, in reply, says he will
be happy to accommodate Prussian, either in
America or immediately after his return to Eng-
land Mace and Slade left America for England,
last month Hanlan’s condition, re his match
with Wallace Ross, is that the Winnipeg residents
add £lOOO to the stakes Mace, with Slade, his
N.Z. half-caste protege, made £5OO at the exhibi-
tion at Washington, (U.S.) Seats, 105.6 d., crowded..
Bargossi, who a few years ago was defeated by
George Hazael in a fifty-mile race in London, is
announced to run from Rome to Paris for a five
hundred pounds wager Hanlan says he will
reply definitely to Hamm and Conley’s challenge
after he consults Lee. If they accept, the race
cannot be rowed before August, as he rows Ken-
nedy May 30, and he wants to give Ross a race
before doubling with anyone One of the best
footballers in the crack fifteen of Oxford Uni-
versity is an Australian, who sports the kangaroo
on his jersey After a splendid game, the annual
international football match at Sheffield termi-
nated in favour of Scotland by three goals to two.
Out of twelve of these contests Scotland has won
eight, England only two; two were drawn —G. C.
Stead, the New Zealand breeder, won the Payne
Stakes with the 3-year-old colt Splendour, at New-
market, England.... A twenty-five mile backward
walking match recently came off at New York,
America, between C. H. Ploof and James E.
Benson. Benson made first mile in llniin. 4sec.,
five miles in 1 hour 7 min., and 25 miles in 6 hours
3min. 135.; Ploof 1 mile 11 min. 7 sec., 5 miles 1
hour 16 min., and 21 miles in 6 hours 3 min. 13see.
An Indian paper states:—“There are rumours
of some disagreement between Lord William
Beresford and Mr. John Wilson over the horses
left in charge of the former by the latter.”. ..The
attendance at the Oxford-Cambridse Annual Sports
this year was very small. Cambridge scored six
wins out of nine events, which atoned greatly for
their beating in the boat race Cricket is evi-
dently not in our Maori cousins’ line. The
West Taieri Club’s scoring- book shows for
the season twelve innings for 0, and twenty-
four of less than 3 runs each. We should
like to see the Illawarra men meet this club.
A lawn-tennis match would be nothing to it—
From a Boston contemporary we learn that John
L. Sullivan, satisfied that the Slade party do not
intend fight, has made up his mind to cross the
ocean and spend the Summer months in Great
Britain and on the Continent. We take the follow-
ing from the paper in question: “Sullivan has an
earnest desire to meet ‘Tug’ Wilson again, and,
unless that English worthy seeks safety in flight,
the champion will seek him in England before
Summer days have come.” The Italians had
their first Derby at Naples last month. Prize
worth 12,000 francs, and confined to horses bred in
Italy This year, the light-weight Queensberry
boxing championship was won by Howlett, Cob-
den C3ub. In the middle weights (not over llkt.
41b.) Reed was victorious. Among the heavy
weights, Montgomerie received the verdict—
Randon, the cricketer who played for Kent
County against the first Australian Eleven, is
dead Jack Ewin of Bethnal Green (age twenty-
five; weight, 125 lb.; height, 5 ft. 6 in.; winner of
140 lb. competition at Lambeth Baths, and 1321 b. at
the Royal victor) and Dave Hayes of Stepney (age
twenty; height, 5 ft. 8)4 in-; weight, 144 lb.)
fought with nature's weapons, for a purse, March
5, near London, Eng. Ewin won easily in 23 min.
Hayes was greatly punished ... In a match at
Marylebone Grounds, Just before the mail left,
Franks, who gave Marsom 1% mile start, despite a
heavy rain all the while, covered 12 miles in l hour
34 min. 14 sec., and then passed his opponent, who
retired. This was a tremendous rate of travelling,
which very few could beat at even “ go-as-you-
please.” Mr. Edmund Tattersall has again taken
up the cudgels against the old-fashioned but
unrighteous practice of entries becoming void
through the decease of the nominator—W. C.
Dole, Jun., the instructor of the Pullman
Athletic Club, on March 24 performed the feat of
swinging a pair of 61b. Indian clubs continually for
three hours and a-half. It was, done for a small
wager. The actual number of motions made in
the last hour and forty minutes was accurately
counted, and amounted to 5180, being almost un
average of 52, and making the total number of
motions about 10,900. Dole did not seem any the
worse from the performance, excepting a few
blisters on his hands and slight soreness in the
shoulders James Paul, the well-known English
pedestrian, recently met with a serious accident,
necessitating the amputation of his left hand....
Fred. Kuhnxe, the California rifle expert, made an
attempt to excel his previously unequalled score of
457 points at 200 yards, one hundred shots. The
wind was variable, blowing the greater part of the
time diagonally across the line of fire, and militat-
ing against success, but nevertheless Kuhnle
managed to tie bis former great score, his
shots all counting either bull’s-eyes or centres—
John Higgins, ex-champion sculler, whose book-
making ventures have of late been rather unfor-
tunate, on 15th March had a rousing “ benefit ” at
Lusby’s Winter and Summer Palace, London, Eng.
Many celebrities were present— Dr. W. F. Carver,
the rifle and trap shot, will, it is said, shortly join
forces with Buffalo Bill at New York, and appear
in a border drama, with real Indians and so forth.
The second pigeon-shooting match between
Capt. A. H. Bogardus and Dr. W. F. Carver was
decided at the Chicago (111.) Driving Park, America,
on 3rd March. One hundred birds each: Carver
won, with a score of 82; Bogardus being 3 behind,
with 79 ... Wailace Ross says that he is willing to
row Charles E. Courtney at any time that will
not conflict with other engagements... .Thereport
that Courtney had sued B. Waters and Sons, of
Troy, N.Y., paper-boat builders for damages, is
not true....At Worcester, Mass., D. L. Dowd, the
well-known strong man, fairly raised from the
floor, with hands alone, 1411 ib. of solid iron....
Lorillard, the American racing-man, has founded a
three-year-old sweepstake, to which he gives £l2su
The fourth shooting match between Carver and
Bogardus was won by Carver on a score of 89 to 74.
....Mr. Crawfurd, says the World, died wonl.
about £600,000 and has left his widow, the Duchies
of Montrose, about £350,000 and all the property at
Newmarket The Duchess intends racmg her
late husband’s stud. Sir John Astley is to be
her adviser Charles MitoheU, the English
champion boxer, only 21 years of age, has
arrived 'in New York, and is desirous of setting-
to with Sullivan. Mitchell only weighs lost.
31b., but is a regular bruiser, and has a tine record.
Greenfield and Mitchell (the latter champion of
England) had a set-to at Madden’s show prior to
Mitchell leaving England for America, the veteran
Jim Hodgkins introducing them as the two great-
est boxers at present residing in Great Britani.
Greenfield opened fire, but was very tricky. Twice
he rushed in, receiving a good left-hander in the
body; then, slinging his right arm round Mitchell’s
neck, he locked his head, and slung his left behind
his back on to Mitchell’s face. This riled Mitchell,
who forced exchanges, and fought in grand form.
In the second round Mitchell several times landed
his left as straight as an arrow on the body cf
Greenfield, countering on the head at the close.
Both fought most determinedly, and Mitche 1
landed again with his left on the body, and Greei -
field on the head of Mitchell. Following with his
right, Greenfield stepped back, and the two rolled
out of the ring, Greenfield underneath. The thii d
round was a really scientific display of attac k
and defence, eacu man doing good work, and the
two shook hands amidst thunders of applause....
Wrestling by female experts is the latest sensation
of a sporting nature in Paris ; exhibition*
given nightly by four Amazons, drawing large
crowds A beer-drinking contest of half-an-
hour’s duration, for a wager, took place, March 19,
at Washington, D.C., between an American and a
German, the former winning by draining twenty-
eight glasses while his opponent was getting away
with twenty-two. So it will be seen that the Teu-
ton was beaten at his own game....A Chinese
laundryman in Cohoes (N.Y.) offers, it is said, to
bet that he can eat thirty toads in as mapy days.
What he*t ?


SOCIAL.
There were too many clouds on Saturday
for the “show” people to be tempted out in great
numbers—too many of that unwelcome visitor
called by Shelley “the daughter of earth and
water, and the nursling of the sky” to allow the
daughters of men” to walk with a mind at ease,
while their material adornment, that had cost time,
thought, and money, was in danger of being
spoiled. Yet the Association Ground was well
patronised, and it was only when compared with the
greater aggregates of other occasions that the
attendance could be complained of. For the second
meeting of a new Club, held on a raw day, it was
encouraging. The chilly wind no doubt gave a
zest for promenading, for the stream of peripatetic
beauties that ebbed and flowed all the afternoon
between the press precincts and the smoking
paddock was considerable. Now and then a little
rush was made for shelter, as the rain-clouds burst
in a light cold spray; but these were very tem-
porary interruptions, and blustering Eolus couldn’t
clear the lawn, cracked bo his cheeks ever so. The
Governor and Lady Loftus were present for about
an hour, and the music of the full City Band, which
played out in the cricket ground, was a treat. It
was remarkable what an effect the wind had on the
bicycles; round one corner they came like a passing
Hash, while on the opposite side of the course the
toiling wheelers, bent double with exertion,
were sometimes almost at a standstill. Lee’s
rush in the 4-mile race was grand. Among
the occupants of the lawn, one of the most
taking costumes was cloth skirt of dull dark green,
gloated flounces, and a green-check panier bodice,
at of bright green plush; the varying shades all
blended in (food taste being very effective. The
two attractive daughters of a stock auctioneer
came early to the ground Inglis-tening dresses of
velvet and satin, one being black, the other
maroon, with trimmings of same. Two little
musical sisters in maroon velvet, and large felt
and plush hats of bathstone hue, (hailed from
Miller’s Point. Then an olderly gentleman came
round the corner, looking careworn under the
crushing responsibility of no less than six young
ladies, of whom the three seniors looked charming,
all in dresses entirely of black velvet trimmed with
sable, Mother Hubbard collars of worked white
satin edged with snowy swansdown, large hats of
black felt with thick edging of sable, and a bunch
of scarlet flowers comfortably tucked behind each
left car. And by the time anyone could notice and
appreciate all this niceness, the three junior young
ladies had disappeared. A pleasant-looking old
lady was soon relieved of her charming charge in a
plain purple-check dress, who is the daughter of
an artist, and very lovely. The wife of an architect
from the Glebe displayed a nice blue serge with
narrow gold braiding, and a pretty bonnet and
feather of bright cobalt blue over a vivacious
face. A Wilimm-street brunette adopted the
same trimming for a dark green cloth. An Ultimo
girl wore a pigeon-drab cashmore with moirrf
sleeves and trimmings, that was not remarkable;
she was, however, for her sparkling pretti-
noss. The wife of a city auditor from Woollahra
wore a splendid cocoa-coloured moirtl antique
with satin bunching and trimmings—it was one of
the best dresses on the stand; and her daughter
wore a cloth overskirt known as cafr au lait shade
of brown, and an underskirt which was in admir-
able keeping, of ruby velvet. With a well-known
singer came his sweet-voiced wife and her sister in
handsome dresses of most bouffant style, one of
sheeny dark green, the other electric blue, prin-
cess bonnets to harmonise. A little Hebrew lady,
a brunette, owned a costume of curious design: a
flowing black cashmere with a long narrow tab
down each side, the outlines marked with narrow
gold edging; more apt to disguise than display a
neat figure. From Paddington, was the wife of
an Assembly Official in rich mauve velvet, and her
daughter, who was a casket—a cooper’s casket—of
charms, in cardinal figured velvet. A recent bride
was brought on the scene by her husband in a
very pretty fawn broehe; and a natty dress of
Persian pattern, combining the metallic tints of
bronze and silver, enveloped a leading stationer’s
wife. The weather turned extremely cold by five
o’clock, and when the sports ended soon after-
wards, most of the ladies’ faces wore very pinched
and pale, and there was decidedly more blue than
pink in their cheeks. The Superintendent of
Tramways no doubt foresaw this chilly state of
things, and so he carefully arranged for the grate-
ful public to—walk home.
* # *
One of the most sought-for invites in
’Frisco is to the Annual High Jinks of the Bo-
hemian Club. As the name imports, it is a club to
which the members, if not misogynists, profess at
any rate to be indifferent to the other sex. The
fact that they are treading on a mysterious, half-
forbidden threshold, renders the affair more
delicious to the ladies. The Bohemians, however
prove themselves splendid hosts once in the year
The whole of the fine club buildings are thrown
open : in the Jinks hall there is dancing to a pro-
fessional band : then there are reading, conversa-
tion, retiring, reception, whist, and many other
small rooms, luxuriously fitted. Besides an epi-
curean supper, ices, wines, trifling oonfections are
served round all the time to every one who desires
them. Among the items of last Jinks were ad-
dresses by the first literary men, on “ The wife of
to-day,” and “The ideal husband ;” musical exer-
cises, hidden choruses sung in the semi-darkness,
and some of the unwritten songs of Bohemia were
given, and a decorous Low Jinks performed, to the
intense delight of the favoured lady guests. The
affair all through possessed the charm of great
novelty. Here’s an idea for Sydney.
* * *
Enjoyable’ dance at “ Creedmoor,” Pad-
dington, on the 9th. Pretty girls, good music, &c.
The most noticeable dresses were the hostess’ a
mixture of brown silk velvet; her two daughters
in black satin, trimmed with pink roses, and in
cream nun’s veiling with wreath of blue bells
A married lady from Regent-street, in pink satin
with silver trimmings. A young lady from North
Shore, in peacock blue satin, trimmed with white
broehe. Two sisters from Woollahra, in nun’s veil-
ing, one trimmed with palo blue satin and forget-
me-nots, the other with pink satin and lily of the
valley. A young lady from Upper William-street,
in white cashmere, trimmed with maroon velvet
Two cousins, one from Balmain, and the other
from Glebe Point, in pink cashmere, trimmed with
cream lace ; wreaths of pink roses. A Melbourne
lady in old gold satin. Break up at three.
* * *
The Owls gave a ladies’ night last week.
The proceedings, except that the air was not
opaque with smoke, were exactly on the lines of
the ordinary programme. Mr. James Caddy,
president, delivered an opening speech, which
bristled with shuddering puns ; and the main item
of the evening was the farce “ Winning Hazard,”
which was tolerably funny, Messrs. J. H. Rainford,
A. Isaacs and H. G. Benson having the male parts
to perforin, while Miss Harvey and Miss Stanley,
two pleasing amateurs, had to love and be loved,
which was of course easy. Other items were :
overture by Mr. Huenerbein and Miss Jessie
Patrick; Daley and Delaney’s Dell of Dreams, by
Bullfinch; songs by Yellow Hammer, Strike and
Miss Alderdice; musical selections by Lyre and
Miss Menser, Messrs. Huenerbein and Maxted;
mouth organ solo by Macair; a remarkably fine
recitation, “The Letter of Death,” by Mr. Hyman,
of Melbourne; and “Little Jim,” recited by Miss
Stanley. At various periods, the president made
amusing speeches, and there was a good interval
for refreshments and social converse all round.
The affair was held in the large hall in connection
with the Cambridge Club, and it was drawing
towards midnight ere the entertainment closed.
* * *
The Manly Rowing Club holds its first
annual ball on 23rd instant, in the local Oddfellows’
Hall. The Liedertafel band provides music, Com-
pagnoni (caters, and the proceeds go in aid of club
funds. And, by the way, where and when do the
members of the Manly Rowing Club row ? We
saw one of them in an outrigger once, but that
was long ago. He was attired in his club uniform,
and he also won; a short^ipe.
The second monthly Bachelors’ Assembly
was held at Nithsdale on Friday, and despite the
weather there was a large gathering—in fact,
almost too many for free dancing. The music was
excellent (it is seldom otherwise at Nithsdale), and
many pretty costumes were observable. A Surry
Hills lady wore a handsome black gros-de-lyon;
and a brunette in white satin and tulle was nice.
Salmon satin embroidered in gilt beads and silk
came from Moore Park—a sort of goodwin-ter
dress; and a slim svlph in blue satin and black lace
looked eva so well. A lithsome dancer was from
Dowling-street, and a brunette belle in black moire
and passementerie from St. Benedict’s direction,
was very be-coomb-ing. Two sisters from Palmer-
street displayed pink silk and plush, and striped
cream skirt with blue satin body, respectively. A
pretty little maid made a pretty little picture in
white India muslin, calculated to india anyone with
soft feelings; and there were other attractions too
numerous to mention this time, including a pleni-
tude of partners and refreshments, the latter
vanishing rapidly.
** * *
The first Bachelors’ Ball at Taree was held
in the Agricultural Hall, a few nights ago, and
passed so pleasantly that, when daylight drew near,
the guests wanted to taree still On the 3rd May,
Mr. E. Rosenthal, of Sydney, was married at St.
James’ to Miss M. Birnie, of Darlington, who
looked lovely in ivory satin, exquisitely made, and
trimmed with Brussels lace and moire, long train;
wreath and blossoms. Four bridesmaids wore
cream nun’s voiling, trimmed with pale blue satin,
and wreaths to match. The bride’s little page was
habited in black silk velvet and honitou lace; and
her fair and stately sister in rich ruby satiu and
cream lace, princess bonnet in keeping. Breakfast
at residence of bride’s parents, and honeymoon to
Mount Victoria Mrs. Augusta Piercy (nee
Dargon) has been gracing the Stage again, at
Wagga, in connection witli Sheridan’s visit there.
There will be a ball on the 24th The bazaar at
Parramatta, in aid of the Sisters of Mercy’s new
Convent, will be opened in the Park Pavilion on
Wednesday, at two o’clock, by the Rev. Mgr. Lynch.
We hear that the Gymnastic Club in Parramatta
is doomed. It’s a peculiar and sad fact that nothing
seems to last long in slow, sweet Parramatta. The
Rowing Club is torpid, and the Dramatic Club
dead; even the hope that hung around the ten-
mile clause has vanished. Parramatta has an un-
lucky facility for starting now enterprises with all
the rushing enthusiasm that attends the opening
of a penny bottle of ginger-pop—and when the
froth s gone, there’s really nothing left Mr.
J. W. Brougham, of Outer Netallie, Wilcannia,
gave a nice ball on the 20th April, which was so
enjoyed that dancing was hardly done at daylight.
Mrs. E. B. L. Dickens was voted belle The Yass
Private Subscription Ball comes off in the local
Mechanics’ Institute on Friday, 25th May An
authority on fashion writes from home“ The
attempts to reinstate the crinoline are continued,
but as those most concerned (the ladies) oppose it,
and the fashion papers ridicule it, it is hardly pro-
bable that anything will come of it.” Dr. P.
Sydney Jones, who left by the Carthage yesterday
i Wednesday) was entertained last Thursday at a
lotany picnic, when several score of ladies and
gentlemen sat down to dinner in Correy’s pavilion,
and his health was drunk. Next night the medicos
of Sydney gave him a valedictory dinner at
Aarons’ Exchange, Dr. Fortescue in the chair.
Some very complimentary speeches wore made
Another departing citizen, Mr. Archibald Forsyth,
the well-known rope-merchant of Surry Hills, and
of the City Bowling Club, was the guest at a picnic
to the Sir Joseph Banks Hotel on Tuesday, when,
notwithstanding the forbidding weather, a number
of his lady and gentlemen friends did him honour,
the Bowling Clubs being prominent Several
Private assemblies have opened the season. The
yduey one at Nithsdale started on Friday, the 4th
May, and the Burwood gathering took place in the
local Town Hall on the 11th instant; and the Bal-
main one a few nights ago On Wednesday next,
the second annual competition will take place at
the Sydney Gymnasium, when every method of
physical education will be illustrated by exercises
and apparatus, and live gold medals will be given
as prizes to the most successful competitors
Among the marriage events recently announced is
that of a well-known Pitt-street warehouseman
(near Tattersali’s) who won the hand of a wealthy
widow from Burwood Recently an announce-
ment was made of the marriage of Mr. Harry
Goodwin, a member of one of the oldest Sydney
families, to the sprightly daughter of a wealthy
South Sydney householder.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Royal Foresters’ Picnic (Botany) May 17
Woollahra Assembly (Nithsdale) May 18
University Commemoration May 19
Grammar School Sports May 19
Fancy Fair opens (Parramatta) May 23
Gymnastic Sociable May 22
Manly Rowing Club Ball May 23
Rand wick Races May 24
Champion A.A. Sports May .24
Governor’s Levee (3 p.m.) May 25
Suburban Bicycle Meeting May 26
North Shore Rowing Club Ball (Town Hall
June 1
E.S.A.A. Club First Annual Ball (Nithsdale)
June 1
Masonic Installation Ball (Parramatta) ..June 6
Britannia C.C. Ball (Parramatta) June 8
Glebe Rowing Club Annual Ball June 8
Sydney Owl Club Ball (Town Hall) June 14
Masonic Ball (Town Hall) June 21
Nowhere perhaps has the dentist’s art obtained
such high excellence as in Sydney. Certainly we
are in no sense behind any other city. Visitors to
Sydney might, to test this, visit the establishment
ot Messrs. Adolphe Gabriel and Company, 18 Wyn-
yard Square, two doors from Pfahlert’s Hotel.
Here the manufacture of every essential in the
profession is carried on. At the rear of the surgery
is a compact little factory where all the requisites
for supplying every dental defect in the human
mouth are made. Messrs. Gabriel and Co. (whose
only address is as above) are always pleased to
show their specimens of artificial teeth to those
interested. There being two firms of the same
name in the Square, patients will oblige by paying
particular attention to the Christian name, Adolphe,
and the number, 18, two doors from Pfahlert’s
Hotel.—Advt.
" THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from memberg of the
Theatrical Profession .]
Mr. Louis N. Parker, of Ipswich (Q.), has
composed a cantata, “ Silvia,” which has twice been
successfully performed by the local musical
society —Bland Holt advertises by means of a
cheque (his own) for £30,000,000; a poor fool pre-
sented a copy of his advertisement at one of the
Melbourne banks, and has been arrested Poor
Tom Casselli, of the Emelie Melville Company, is
(lying- of consumption at Melbourne Bandmann
and Bcaudet gradually working their way down
South, and are advertised to appear at Mary-
borough (Q.) on the 23rd for four nights Miss
Alice Rees must have a good friend amongst the
Sydney telegraphic correspondents. This is all one
says about her, and in the Australasian too
“ She distanced all the Italians.” They can’t put
any more on her plate now. There’s no room, not
even for an encomiastic stick of telegraphic
“sparrow-grass.” We think, however, that some-
one ought to be found who could spoon a little into
Signora Graziosi’s tureen Fred. Maccabe goes to
America from Auckland by first ’Frisco mail.. .
George Darrell’s new play is entitled “The Naked
Truth,” It is to be hoped that the critics will not
tell it about, or else Mr. Darrell will be ordering
apartments at Yarra Bend Asylum, and hiring an
able-bodied man to keep his hair on Another
?ar. Mr. E. M'Lean, late proprietor of M’Lean’s
'roubadours, and a man well and favourably
known all over the colonies for his pantomimic
proficiency and the perennial bloom on his visage,
is taking a company of burlesque artists through
the northern districts overland to Queensland.
They open at Maitland on Queen’s Birthnight.
• •
Henry Irving has 1000 wigs, no two of
which are exactly of the same shade Poor
Chiarini’s blindness resulted thus : He met with a
severe fall from a horse. Doctors advised him not
to ride again for some time, and to confine himself
to a dark room to avert threatened inflammation.
Nevertheless, he went to Cochin China with his
troupe, and there both rode in the ring and exposed
his eyes to the glaring sunlight. In a few days the
inflamation declared itself violently. One of his
eyes was taken out, with the hope that by so doing
the other might be saved ; but the operation was
without good result, and he is now entirely and
hopelessly blind Alice Dunning Lingard was to
have played Camille at a matinee at the Gaiety
Theatre, London, on 20th Feb. The Lord Chamber-
lain has at last given a license for this piece; so a
sincere version of it will, it is said, be witnessed for
the first time in London. It has hitherto been
played there in an enfeebled or expurgated form.
Adelaide Kistori, now 05, is a wreck, and was a
failure a few weeks ago, at Rome, in “ Marie An-
toinette.” Butsheis wealthy There’s been some
noise in N.Y. about an actor assaulting an actress.
The facts are that Mr. J. H. Stoddard, who is ner-
vous and hasty, ordered Miss Maude Harrison to
do something to which she objected. She refused;
he repeated, and she cried. Then he insisted, and
used ungentlemanly language. Then, as a matter
of course, Maude intimated she’d die first. Where-
upon Stoddard caught her shoulders, forced her on
to her knees, gripped her neck, and, after a good
shaking, flung her, face down to the floor. Maude
was a little hurt, and a great deal frightened; but,
still she is awfully happy, for “he didn’t make her
do it—there, now!” A Louisville writer finds that
the performance of Galatea by a certain actress is
“ like a babe that opens its wide eyes for one mo-
ment on the world, and then leaves it with a sigh;
like a flower that breathes its fragrance for a day
upon the earth of which it is not; like a grand
strain of music that floats and throbs at twilight and
sinks away into the dim roaches of which we dream,
but in which we cannot walk; too pure for the
world, and yet leaving behind a memory,a perfume,
a harmony tenderer, sweeter, more exalting.”
William Horace Lingard has, so the papers say,
failed to pay his company, and “skipped” from
California—Mary Anderson will appear at Lon-
don Lyceum in November ...The very latest is
that a Langtry-Wales-Gebhardt combination will
travel next season When Mrs. Langtry played
at Milwaukee, all were satisfied that she couldn’t
act well, but as she wore a low-necked dress there
were many who could see traces of merit in her
performance....At Brooklyn, March 7, Miss Ida
Hosiner, age 25, weight 45 pounds, and height 38
inches, was married to Major Littlefinger, age 24,
weight 54 pounds, height 40 inches. He is a native
of Boston, a widower, and has one child, nine
months old, weighing six pounds.... Apropos of
the theatre-fire on the evening of what was to
have been Mrs. Langtry’s first American appear-
ance, — apropos, also, or the attention paid her by
Gebhardt, it is remarked that she started with a
fire and has since been followed by a flame
Signor Nicolini is reported to have said that he
does not care what American critics say of him, as
ho has plenty of money, and only sings to “ please
Patti.” Miss RoseCoghlan has written an able
article on the stage in which she concludes that, an
actress ought not to marry at a11.”....The man
who represented the Saviour in the rehearsals of
the “Passion Play,” at New York, was locked up
for drunkenness, and the actress who was to have
taken the part of the Virgin sued the manager for
breach of agreement ...Lord Ward offered Sara
Bernhardt £5OO for the ragged little suit she
wore when her talent was first discovered, but
she wouldn’t take it. The Marquis of Hereford
offered Rachel two diamonds worth 20,000 francs
for the guitar she used when singing for bread in
the streets of Paris, and which she carried with her
till her death. “ Not for all the jewels in the crown
of England,” she said. The Marquis had Garrick’s
umbrella, Mdlle. Mars’ fan. Talma’s watch, and
the last bottle of wine which Kean drank from,
and which fell from his hand half emptied
Wagner’s “Parsifal” is a sort of “ Passion Play,”
where a lady washes the hero’s feet and dries them
with her hair and which also furnishes a tableau of
the Holy Supper anointings and baptisims. For
these reasons its performance has just been for-
bidden in London.
Balls, Banquets, Public or Private Parties.
Ballrooms tastefully decorated with Flag or Floral
Decorations on reasonable temrs— Sale and Darl,
Hunter-street *
Coffee and cinchona cultivation is proceed-
ing apace in the Northern Territory. Mr. Poett
will have in a few months about 300,000 coffee
plants. The cinchona attains in the Territory a
size unequalled in Ceylon or elsewhere. The in-
dustry is a very profitable one. At its lowest
calculation, 25., 16001 b. per acre will give a bi-
yearly return of £l6O an acre. At a sale m London
the produce of a forty-acre farm was sold for
Now that Tattersall’s (Messrs. Hawkes and
Co.’s) great establishment in Castlereagh-street is
in full swing, it is easy to be seen that we have
in Sydney the finest hostelry probably in the
world, but certainly in Australia. Neither New
York nor London has anything so extensive or of
such excellent design. This great establishment is
probably without a model, and does immense
credit to Mr. Hawkes. The building has four tiers of
horse boxes, the horses being taken to the top of
the building either up an incline or in a powerful
steam elevator. Every floor is composed of Val de
Travers asphalte, and each stall is bedded with
granite. Feed is supplied by shoots to
each box, and the refuse is carried off in
a similar manner. Water is laid on in every stall,
and there are large baths for horses. The auction
mart, which is destined to be the great centre of
the horse trade, is surrounded by seats, which are
gladly availed of by spectators, admission being
by ticket. About 350 horses are accommodated on
the premises; and as the main business is done
with the public, there is a gTeat number of vehicles
for hire. There are ladies’ waiting rooms, &c.,
commercial and smoking rooms, &c., a grand ball-
room extends along the whole front of the budd-
ing, and a hundred offices or more are available
for commercial or professional requirements.
Altogether, Tattersall s Auction Mart is a great
building, and does infinite credit to the enterprise
of Sydney.
F
URNITURE SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Springs treets, Sydney.
HALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS, and
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
T IBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
_U TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb, Furniture Importers, Spring and
O’Connell streets, Sydney.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, in EXQUISITE
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
TVrOVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
OConnell-street.
AFTERNOON TEA TABLES, elegant and inex-
pensive. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
U’Connell-street.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants,
smoking rooms, &c.
BILLIARD TABLES, full size, with appurten-
ances : also smaller Convertible Tables, 7 and
8 feet may be used as dining tables. Now on view,
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, Importers, Spring
and O Connell streets, Sydney.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, atlowest prices. BRAD-
EE), IN EWTON, and LAMB, Importers,
u uonnell-street.
BEDROOM SUirES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller iVadrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney ’
EIGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street ’
CHEAP FURNITURE.-Whatnots, from 30s :
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; Open Book-
cases, from 35s ; Chests Drawers, from 40s ; Wash-
stands, from 10s (>d ; Tables, from 7s 6d ; Wardrobes
from 80s ; Dining Tables, from 30s ; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 3os; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s •
? FnkUn^Su f, ' 0 « 308 ; Kitchen Tables from
10s, r olding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d BRAD
LEY NEWTON, and LAMB O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney. F K
85s.
BRADLEY
NEWTON,
and LAMB
SYDNEY.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold with Side
Shelves, 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
FURNITURE. —The Largest Stock in the
Colony. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
U'Uonnell-street.
Drawing-room cabinets—Early English,
Anglo-Japanese, and Chippendale designs.
Just opened. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
streets.
DI NI N G-R OO M FURNlTURE.—Magnificent
Suites in Walnut Oak, and Mahogany. Side-
boards, Dinner Waggons, &c., to match. BRAD-
LEI, NEWTON, and LAMB, Furniture Ware-
housomen, Spring and O’Connell streets.
Framework tor drawing and dining
ROOM FURNITURE, Handsome and Massive,
in Oak, Walnut and Mahogany. The VERY BEST
REAL MOROCCO SKINS, and Material?for up-
holstery. Open to inspection. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB.
B
B 1
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass :
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
B E ™ 1 rtesonptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell-street.
W
G
ASHSTANDS, with marble, 35s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
ARDEN SEATS and Verandah Chairs.—Brad-
ley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—a very complete
Assortment, just opened; many quite new
designs.
Occasional chairs in very great
Variety, Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
"RON SAFES, various sizes. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
ICE CHESTS, all sizes, very superior make. Ex-
amine before purchasing. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
S
TEINWAY NEW YORK PIANOS, the FINEST
in the world. A SHIPMENT just landed.
OO GUINEA PIANO, WARRANTED sound
and durable, in solid walnut case ; specially
adapted for beginners or schools.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Qr|GUINEA PIANO, brilliant toned, full com-
pass, all the latest improvements, in hand-
some walnut case; WARRANTED SOUND and
DURABLE ; BEST VALUE in the trade.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
IPP’S CELEBRAT ED PI A N OS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
have received
another LARGE SHIPMENT
of
R. LIPP and SONS’ celebrated PIANOFORTES
direct from the Makers, comprising TALL
GRANDS, LITTLE UPRIGHT, GRANDS, SA-
LOON GRANDS, VERY HANDSOME and of the
HIGHEST CLASS FINISH,
in
WALNUT and BLACK GOLD.
WE HAVE NOAV THE LARGEST STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA OF
LIPP’S PIANOS
TO SELECT FROM.
WE INVITE INSPECTION.
FOR PRIVATE SALE AT EXTREMELY LOW
PRICES.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Pianoforte Importers,
O’Connell and Spring streets.


W. Howard Smith and Sons,
STRUTH’S WHARF and NEW WHARF
(Foot of King Street).
Offices: 42 KING STREET.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Brisbane to Port Mackay and Townsville
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
♦Buninyong
Barrabool
* Bur wall
Cheviot
[ Derwent
Edina
*Gabo..
* To arrive.
W. HOWARD SMITH and SONS,
42 King Street, Sydney.
hawkes and company,
TATTERSALL’S HORSE BAZAAR
and
SALE YARDS,
CORNER of CASTLEREAGH and HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sales Daily, or outside when required.
Horses kept at Livery; excellent accommodation
and fodder.
All kinds of Vehicles and Horses on Hire, day
or night.
Weddings and Picnic Parties supplied with good
carriages.
TRAMS SET DOWN AT THE DOOR.
Conveyances fitted with Hampers for Excursion
Parties.
Sale, Livery, and Let-out Department entirely
seDarate.
“WHAT IS A SECRET?”
SOMETHING told to everybody in a whisper.
Please tell all your friends this Secret, that
thev will study both “Comfort and Economy” in
having their supply of WOOD and COAL from
NOTTING & CO.,
COAL AND FUEL MERCHANTS,
Cowper’s Wharf,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO BAY.
M«"(V -* jS M Kf*
MOUSTACHE AND WHISKERS.
Hoyd's Beard Klixfr did this. and will do It
on either bald head or bare face. Force*
heavy llousiaehe in from 2 to 4 weeks and
never fail*. 20,000 young mm already wear
r lull beard, having used ito 3 pkt a. No
injury, easily applied, certain in effect.
Packets Is. fed. each,3 for 3s. fed., post paid,
sent under cover, free from observation. Address,Fa am k Douglas,
Sole Agent, Box 73d. 6.P.0., Sydney, N.S W.
TRY IT—YOU CAN’T BEAT IT I
X
(
.4°
f
N
%v
X v*
4
Sole Agent*:
ROBERT PHILLIPS AND CO-. 263 CEORCE STREET, BYDNEY*
Mr. T. F. DeCourcy Browne
(Late Deputy-Chairman of the Mining Board
of New South Wales),
Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,” &c.
MINING EXPEKT,
ARBITRATOR, ADVISER, AND MINING
TITLES AGENT,
MINERVA CHAMBERS, 136 PITT STREET
(Near King-street).
{is?* Mining Properties Reported Upon.
Legal Managerships Undertaken.
Also, Arbitrations in Town or Country, &e.
“W.
Watchmaker, Jeweller and
Silversmith,
TTAS JUST OPENED HIS NEW PREMISES,
n 544 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the TOWN HALL,
With a magnificent stock of Diamond, Roman,
and Vienna Jewellery,
GOLD AND SILVER WATCHES & CLOCKS,
Football, Cricketing, and Trophy Speciality.
Note the Address-
er - 544 GEORGE STREET.
PARAGON FIRE KINDLERS (PATENTED).-
A Blessing to Households, saving Time,
Trouble, and Temper. Should be in every home
this winter season. Sold by all Grocers. W. and H.
COOK, Wholesale Agents, 225 Elizabeth-street.
PARAGON FIRE KINDLERS (PATENTED)
are the best ever produced in the Colonies,
one packet will light a dozen fires quickly and
surelv. Ask your Grocer for the Wholesale Depot,
225 Elizabeth-street.
CVUEEN’S BIRTHDAY FIREWORKS.—The
J best agent for lighting Fireworks is the
PARAGON FIRE KINDLER (PATENTED.)
A one dozen packet (if ignited cake after cake),
will afford a strong light for Two Hours. Sold
••everywhere. Wholesale Depot, 225 Elizabeth-st.
The
Rudge
Bicycle,
THE
BEST
IN THE
WORLD.
anti
“Coventry” Rotary Tricycle.
Hidden by Mr. A. Lee, One-mile Amateur Champion
Mr. G. W. Edwin, Ten-miles Amateur Champion
„ Mr. E. H. M‘Bae, Sydney Bicycle Club
„ Mr. H. Moyse, Suburban do. do., &c., &c., &c.
SEND FOE REDUCED PRICE LIST. POST FREE.
J. COPLAND, 31 Market Street, Sydney.
C
$
A
*
c
&
s>
o
a
&
# f
# V/V
5v
O
£
s
«
o
v>
©
*
c
3?
\ v
$
<N
rv
»
dC>
S 3
? <*
o*
s>
,kV V .»"' /
J&*
»< -v <f >•
** v <T *?V
4 # >* ,# .#
CV .^cr
No License Required for the Sale of Fireworks.
FIREWORKS!
THE UNDERSIGNED have been APPOINTED SOLE AGENTS for the Royal Atlas Brand Prize
London Fireworks, Manufactured by the Atlas Manufacturing Company (Limited), Pyrotech-
nists to Her Majesty the Queen, and the Imperial Government. ,
MYERS & SOLOMON.
These JUSTLY CELEBRATED FIREWORKS, which have now been before the public for the past
twenty years, are NOW ON SALE by the undersigned. To meet the increasing demandfor the Queens
Birthday we have IMPORTED 100,000 GROSS of the Royal Atlas Brand Fireworks, comprising
TEN KINDS, which will be sold at is 9d and 2s 9d per Gross.
:o:
Royal Atlas Brand Prize London Fireworks,
MYERS & SOLOMON.
Squibs, Pin Wheels, Blue Devils, Golden Rains,
Starlights, Blue Caudles, Chinese Trees, Double
Crackers, Flower Pots, Prince of Wales’ Feathers,
Is 9d per gross.
The above Ten Kinds, Double Size, 2s 9d per
gross—same assortment as above, extra superior.
TRIPLE SIZE, 8s per gross, including Rockets
and Roman Candles
THROW-DOWN CRACKERS, in Boxes, contain-
ing Six Gross, 4s per box.
FIRE BALLOONS, 6s, 12s per dozen.
Chinese Fireworks.
CHINESE CRACKERS, 40 packets in box, 2s Gd
and 3s 6d per box.
Extka Superior CHINESE CRACKERS —4O
packets in box, red packets, 6s per box.
Tom Thumb Chinese Crackers, 40 packets in box 10
strings in packet, 6s doz. or 20s per box.
CHINESE GUNS, extra superior, 40 guns in packet,
6s per dozen packets—4Bo guns.
Serpents, Blue Lights and Squibs,
Double Crackers and Roman Candles,
Roman Candles, 3 coloured stars
Sky Rockets, Sky Rockets (coloured stars,)
Signal Rockets and Line Rockets,
Italian Streamers and Flower Pots,
Katherine or Pin Wheels,
Bengal Lights, red, blue, and green,
Bengal Lights, red and blue—Bengal Lights,
Prismatic Lights, Changeable Lights,
Signal Lights with handles.
Snakes in the Glass, Maroons,
Tourbillions, Devil among the Tailors,
Devil among the Tailors, large,
Jack in the Box,
Mine of Serpents,
Triangle Wheels, Double Triangle Wheels,
Vertical Wheels, Cascade Wheels,
Bouquet of Gerbs,
Horizontal Wheels,
Pyramid Roman Candles,
Golden Gerbs and Golden Fountains,
Starlights.
ALL GAURANTEED OF THE BEST ENGLISH MANUFACTURE.
Cases Assorted Fireworks,
INCLUDING CHINESE FIREWORKS,
£3 10s., £5, £7 10s., £lO, £l5, £2O Per Case.
GOD SAVE THE QUEEN.
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT TO THE TRADE.
Myers and. Solomon,
536 and 538 Greorge-street, Sydney.
IjT otice I otice I
BOYD, the POPULAR PHOTOGRAPHER.
Removal to More Extensive & Centrally Located Premises.
Mr. BOYD desires to notify the public that his business will be SHORTLY
RESUMED in
PREMISES UNEQUALLED IN THESE COLONIES, of which DUE NOTICE WILL BE
GIVEN THROUGH THE PRESS AND BY CIRCULAR DIRECT.
JggT In reference to the above, the public are hereby informed that Mr. Boyd is no
longer a partner in the
SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART.
The business is carried on as usual at 260 and 252 GEORGE STREET (over Peate and
Harcourt’s), under able management, and with, the same efficient staff.
All negatives made since the establishment of the business, in 1879, are carefully pre-
served, and copies can be furnished.
A MASCOTTE CONSULTATION.
QUEEN’S BIRTHDAY CUP.
To be run at Randwick on 34th May, 1883.
Capital £3OOO ; 4000 Shares at 10s. each; 130 prizes,
more or less.
Plan of Distribution
Inﬂow- ,V. .. zoo»
may :: :: kc
Hun-stutter!” .. zoo
2129.5
No. 1 Prize Gift ..
„ 2 Prize Gift ..
„ 3 Prize Gift ..
5 at £23
10 at 20
Sat 10
10 at 5
£2OO
100
50
125
200
50
50
£775
Application by letter only, addressed D. UNDO,
Box 723, G.P.0., Sydney, and at Eastway’s Hotel,
King-street, Sydney.
“ Coming events cast their shadows before.”
A
UGUR’S” CONSULTATION, 1883.
L (T)rawings conducted by a Committee of
Shareholders.)
GREAT METROPOLITAN STAKES U- „ OpKV
MELBOURNE CUP. ) A ° W U •
4000 Shares at 10s each for each event.
£1 will secure One Share in both consultations.
Plan ok Distribution (each event.)
19¢ 11mm . . .. mm
and Horace - - A non
0rd Homo .. .. 2m
Starters divide
Non-starters ..
As each consultation is distinct, clients will please
state for which they subscribe.
Register letters and enclose two stamped and
directed envelopes for reply and result; add ex-
change on cheques. , ,
Results advertised in papers, and slips posted to
each subscriber.
Address: “AUGUR,
Care of JOE COHEN’S HOTEL,
William-street, Sydney.
66
D
M
O
N
D.”
MELBOURNE CUP CONSULTATION 1883.
Capital £lO,OOO in 30,000 Shares of 10 shillings each,
DISTRIBUTED AS FOLLOWS:—
First, Horse.. .. £3OOO
Second Horse .. 3000
Third Horse .. 1000
Starters divide .. 1000
Non-starters .. 500
2 Prizes of £250 each, £5OO
5 Prizes of 100 „ 500
10 Prizes of 50 „ 500
20 Prizes of 25 „ 500
50 Prizes of 10 „ 500
£lO,OOO
Application by letter only, enclosing stamp, to
“ DIAMOND,”
Caro of O. Schieblich,
Watchmaker and Jeweller,
17 Little Collins-street East, Melbourne,
(Near Colonial Hank.)
Prizes paid one day after drawing, and Horses
paid two days after event. , ,
ltesult slips posted to each Subscriber, and also
advertised in daily and weekly papers. Shares sent
per return post. Prospectus on application.
Letters containing cash should be registered.
If country cheques, must bear exchange.
N.B.—“Diamond,” in thanking numerous clients
for their support in previous successful racing
seasons, invites their eo-operation in the above.
44 rrUIE KRUG CHAMPAGNE CUP ”
JL for
AMATEUK SCULLERS,
To be rowed for on the Champion Course,
PARRAMATTA RIVER,
on SATURDAY, 10th JUNE.
WORKING CLASSES,
GENERATE YOUR OWN GAS.
KEELY AND CQ)
71 Goulburn-street, Sydney.
Dealers in Portable Gas, Gasaliers, Lamps, and
Fluid. Comfort, Economy, and Safety.
Mr Keely, on behalf of the Patent Portable Gas
Co had charge of the lighting of the hall and
supper rooms at the Hay Demonstration, and the
lighting of Croydon Station. He undertakes to
teach his customers in three minutes the mode of
llfi A liberal discount will be given to storekeepers
on remittances per orders, and goods forwarded
with quick despatch. Orders and remittances to
be sent to the above address. No orders attended
to without remittance.
LIST OF PRICES:
4 Light Gasalier
3 do do •'
2 do do .. • • •■
Wall bracket lamp, burn 16 hours..
do do 9 do ..
Table lamps, 2 branch
do 1 do
Brass Brackets
All Globes and Fittings
Fluid, in cases, 8 gal _
1 gal. fluid gives a light equal to 12s worth kero-
sene. Instructions as to the mode of lighting sent
to clients with despatch of goods.
70s
50s
35s to 45s
17s (kl
15s
60s
45s
40s
5s extra
2s 6d per gal.
m
COMFORTABLE TEETH
The use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are three kinds, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the Yellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to persons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
gums,decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
drops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never suffer again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
sec that each Label bears the name, “ Wilcox and
Co., 339 Oxford-street, London.”
DE
ASTHMA,COUGH, BRONCHITIS
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate relief in
the worst attack of Asthma, uough, Bronchitis,
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night,
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them invaluable, as they instantly check the
spasm, promote sleep, ana allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtain d of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution .—To yuara <. namst j raudule nt imita t ions,
see that each box bears the name of “ Wilcox and
Co., 389 Oxford-street, ijondon.”


An Australian Inland Sea.
Even when Sturt, on his third and last journey in
search of an Australian Inland Sea, got hemmed in
amid the dreadful droughts and awful stillnesses
of Stony Desert, he never could quite divest him-
self of the notion that such a sea existed some-
where to the centre of the Australian Continent.
His theory was that the continent was in the form
of a common saucer, slanting down on all sides
towards the centre, where he supposed the great
inland sea would be found; and this the South
Australians have lately ascertained to be the case
with that portion of their territory lying to the
North of Spencer’s Gulf—minus the sea itself.
No i
Here you H\ve a Scientific -person conjei^pl^tin^
/the c,rem MSIN-UKE DESERT he or OUR
k c T NENT -w(« a «,»»«■*
<V Kf AN inlan!)
£&??. 4
(5
t c Z S/ *
\°o
<y
2)l\ )E frsfftblG w Li<L
Ol4t O'CLOCK
>*x/
>*f*y,c b l
, q \
%•/ o *
* <Jf> "
1 A l/tw
.°A
■.
S'ct^mf^w
OuK'¥f s^
w\^F ffr
Wfj
f W f) Rft
» H “«K^g^^r,Suv W
y
IWof A of '■& hKK
THAT[?]INLAND SEA.
There now come 9 the bold proposal to substitute for
the further extention of the S.A. Great Northern
Railway such a sea as Sturt once dreamed of. Some
Adelaide engineers, and others, notably Mr. R. C.
Baker, hold that this startling scheme is not only
perfectly practicable, but that the land lost by the
construction of this great sea would be more than
compensated for by the climate being made cooler
and moister, by the droughts being rendered less
oommon and less severe when they came, by the
enhanced value given to neighbouring lands, and
by the great extent of water carriage that would
be provided for settlers. It is maintained that
the sea could be constructed with much greater
ease and at far less cost than the Suez Canal or
other works of the same kind, and that It would,
when constructed, be equally or more beneficial in
its results. The abettors of the scheme point out
that a creek runs from Port Augusta to Lake
Torrens, that the lake is often dry, or nearly so,
and that cutting a channel through it would be
easy work; that a number of small creeks existing
to the north of Lake Torrens run into Lake Eyre,
and that the waters from the former, supplied by
Port Augusta, at the head of Spencer’s Gulf, could
be readily conveyed to the latter, and the desired
inland sea then be formed. But this is a scheme
for about the middle of next century—for the time
when the Murray will be rendered properly navi-
gable at a roughly-estimated cost of ten to fifteen
millions. Mr. C. K. Haly, one of the most ex-
perienced squatters in Australia, argues, with re-
ference to the inland sea prospect, that a low-lying
channel should be found somewhere on the south-
western side, leading to Spencer’s Gulf. Mr. Haly
reminds colonists that a drought lasted from 1837
to 1841, and thinks no expense should be grudged
to avert a similar catastrophic season. Mr. L.
Hopkins, our staff artist, obligingly gives his view
of the affair, on this page.
Marks Hermann, the 1400 per cent. Mel-
bourne usurer, the other day asked his little son
what he meant to do when he became a man.
Young Hermann at once replied that he would get
a brass-plate engraved with “ Loan and Discount
Bank,” and then go hunting for fools—” just like
you do, pa.”
The first thing Jem Mace inquired for upoti
his arrival at Washington was the spot where
Garfield was shot. He was conducted to the ladi®'
waiting-room, and shown the small brass star which
marks the place where the late President received
his death-wound. Reverently removing his haZ
Mace looked at the star for a minute, then, turnijfi
to his wife, said: “ Darling, put yer foot on hit, Jusft
for luck.”
BLASTED HOPES.
Down to the South to seek his fortune,
Down to the glorious land of gold,
Where the sun is stronger, the fair days longer,
And all is a man’s to have and hold:
Where all’s a man’s who has a strong heart ;
A will to work and a mind to plan—
Down with the summer to where each comer
Need say for a password, “ I’m a man !”
He went, the scion of noble fathers —
His race’s fortunes had long declined—
Leaving a maiden with sorrow laden,
To bear his image ever in mind.
The sky was bright above as he left her,
The sea where the good ship rode was blue,
And she vowed gently, he violently,
In life or death they would both be true.
Long years rolled on, but she no word of
Her distant lover all those years heard,
And she’d say, half crying, “ He’s dead or dying,
Or he’d have sent me at least a word !”
The Autumns passed with their wealth of gold
corn,
The Springs danced by with their braids of
tlow’rs,
Then birds stopped singing, and winds came
bringing
The Winter dark with its snows and showers.
Then round again to the Spring, that brought na
Blossom of hope to her hungry heart;
Ah, do you marvel that they who starve 111
Are they who never knew hunger’s smart ?
“ I’ll seek my love,” she cried in anguish,
“ I’ll seek my lost love by land and sea—
He’ll leave his new love to clasp his true love,
And all will be as it used to be !”
So o’er the sea this loyal lady
Sailed, with her thoughts flying on before,
She was then so elated and agitated
She thought of meeting him on the shore.
She landed—but why string out the story—
At first she was full of fear and doubt,
Till some one told her—her heart grew bolder—
Perhaps the police could find him out.
She tried. “ How looked he ?” they asked her,
“ Ah, he’d an air distingui —a look of rank.”
“ His name it is now ?” “ Ah, well he is now
Doing five years for robbing a bank I”


w. H. PALING,
®3 GEOIIGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Pianofortes,
Pianofortes,
Pianofortes.
% the following- renowned English, French, and
German Makers:—
- ard Aucher
Ronisch
Hundt & Sohn
Bluthner
Steinway
Schiedmayer
Challen & Son
Ecke
And numerous other Manufacturers.
by Bell & Co., Palace Organ Company;
ftnii* ERS & Co., Peloubert, and others,
eu & Co’s. Celebrated Orcans. besides
&yei
& Collard
fesr d& sons
p°afleto
frost & Co.
L, PP & Sohn
Elcke
Paling & Co.
A. Bord
Berden & Co.
Herz
Schwechten
Schwander,
Forster
Co’s. Celebrated Organs, besides other
o hev U8 ’ gained First and Special Prize over all
us at the recent Sydney Exhibition.
HARMONIUMS by Alexander & Co., etc.
A Splendid Stock of MUSIC always on hand.
,v . IMPORTANT NOTICE,
l'rotn* ®t°W. A. P.’s, removal to those immense
r »,rnI nis Si S ’ next door, lately occupied by Prince,
sola a P? Co., the present Magnificent Stock will be
° ld at REDUCE# PRICES at
w
H . PALING
353 GEORGE STREET.
S,
the criterionr
15 Royal Arcade 15.
CLASS LUNCHEON and REFRESHMENT
HOOMS for LADIES and GENTLEMEN.
The (
m ~a c emfort of Ladies has been especially attended
has k ELEGANTLY-FURNISHED APARTMENT
Sunni■ eetl se t aside for their sole use. It will be
,‘Wied with writing materials, daily papers,
& c ., &c.
('or Stlemen in town can obtain, AT ALL HOURS,
h , LUNCHEONS—Ham, Beef, Tongue, Sar-
s > Salads, Hard-boiled Eggs, &c., &c.
(h . P of Tea or Coffee, with Light Refreshment.
"pb-OOiial in every respect to the celebrated
'AUTEriqn” BUFFET, LONDON.
Celebrated American Iced Drinks.
GEORGE WILLIAM SELFE,
Proprietor.
ROYAL, BRISBANE,
NOTICE TO MANAGERS.
i it open dates for the current year are now
1 'Vn? ra Pidly tilled. Early application is therefore
"lav v. ary from Companies coming North. Terms
Uovni °c Bad from George L. Goodman, Theatre
•> «i, Sydney, or
J AMES B. HICKIE, Brisbane.
The NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Ul Capital, £lOO,OOO.
iflv Toterest as follows :-SEVEN PER CENT,
icf rfS doposits for 13 months; FIVE PER CENT.
VN’r AWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
H'an7,; °s(sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
( Payable on Demand. Offices, i Park-st.
T V. W A REHAM
iS^
t RAD£ MaR“
'II
Boar’s Head Stout.
1? r V,I, f 'i lvou rite brand of Stout selected with
i 6 coioK 9 aro from the best of the brewings of
hrm of Arthur Guinness and Co.,
> »nd therefore cannot be excelled.
, To be procured everywhere.
& CO., Sole Agents.
BLEND
HADE
mark)
Ati
C ollie Blend Whisky.
C'BLEND of "the PUREST MATURED
-qUan combining 'i< ness of body, with
r and delicacy of tasto and flavour.
& CO.* Sole Agents.
st^cL
Have recently opened large shipments of their now celebrated brand of
Standard Ready-made Clothing.
These Goods are All Wool, and the cut, lit, and workmanship is not to be excelled anywhere’
“STANDARD ” TWEED SUITS, THIRTY-FIVE SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
PEAPES and SHAW’S, GEORGE STREET.
“STANDARD ” TWEED SUITS, THIRTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
PEAPES and SHAW’S, GEORGE STREET.
“ STANDARD ’’ TWEED SUITS, TWO GUINEAS.
PEAPES and SHAW’S, GEORGE STREET.
“ STANDARD ” TWEED SUITS, FORTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
PEAPES and SHAW’S, GEORGE STREET.
“ STANDARD ” TWEED SUITS, FIFTY SHILLINGS.
PEAPES and SHAW’S, GEORGE STREET.
NOTE-
PATTERNS of the Tweeds in each price quoted forward on application, together with
instructions for self-measurement, post free.
OVERCOATS FOR WINTER, in light, medium, and heavy textures, 255, 30s, 355.
OVERCOATS, CUT SPECIALLY, EXTRA LENGTHS, and exceptionally well finished, 425,
455, 50s.
SCOTCH TWEED ULSTERS, LINED WOOL, 30s, 355, 425, 455, 50s.
GENT.’S DRESSING GOWNS, in Scotch Knickerbocker Felt Wool, and Paisley, in great
variety.
NEW RAILWAY RUGS in Wool, Plain and Fancy Seal, extra sizes, from 15s 6d upwards.
A MAGNIFICENT SHIPMENT OF BAGS.
GLADSTONE’S IN BUFF AND ENAMELLED HIDE
THE EXCELSIOR BRIEF BAG
THE REACONSFIELD, and a variety of other shapes
Portmanteaus and Overland Trunks, in all sizes.
CHRISTY’S HATS, CHRISTY’S HATS, CHRISTY’S HATS,
ALL THE NEWEST AND LATEST LONDON SHAPES,
In Black Silk, Drab Shell, Hard Felts.
Travelling Hats and Caps, in great variety.
THE TURKISH FEZ. THE TURKISH FEZ.
PEAPES & SHAW, George-street. PEAPES & SHAW, George-street.
I
AC 'T[}R
I
Ť
lI.HUNTER STREET
SYDNEY.
SEND FOR
CATALOGUE.
G OLD
FROM
WATCHES
<£3.10.
Blsucfeet Sz IDsuTry,
119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
AGENTS FOE
Barrel ini Sin’s Cenpi Frill Stem Engine.
PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION.
M. GOU LS TO W,
TRY GOULSTON’S CELEBRATED SUITS,
reduced to £3.
FIT GUARANTEED.
ALL GOODS WARRANTED SHRUNK
TRY GOULSTON’S 16s 6d TROUSERS TO ORD;
TERMS CASH.
y>
M. GOULSTON’S NOTED FOR BEST FROCK,
WALKING, and DRESS SUITS.
FIT GUARANTEED.
LARGEST STOCK of WOOLLENS in the COLONY
T-A. ILOE,
58 MARKET STREET, Established 29 years in Sydney.
Afghanistan and Cape Gold Jewellery.
No. 9 Sydney Arcade, and No. 12 Royal Arcade.
THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR 18-CARAT GOLD.
WATCHES
ALBERTS
RINGS
BRACELETS
NECKLETS
'T-'
LOCKETS
BROOCHES
EARRINGS
STUDS
GENT’S HUNTING WATCHES, 305.; LADIES’ DITTO, 325. 6d.
PARISIAN DIAMOND JEWELLERY cannot be distinguished from Brazilian Diamonds.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Public are Cautioned against Purchasing elsewhere, as there are inferior
goods in the market.
Afghaniston Jewellery Company, Registered,
9 SYDNEY ARCADE, and 12 ROYAL ARCADE;
And CBEAPSIDE, LONDON, and NEW YORK and PARIS.
Late of the Telegraph Hotel, Inverell,
HAS OPENED THE
‘ Clareiidon,’
Corner of ELIZABETH & PARK Streets,
And which he intends to keep as a first-class Hotel,
A. G. hopes, by strict attention to Business, to
gain a share of their PATRONAGE. VISITORS
will find this surpasses most of the leading
HOTELS for ACCOMODATION and every CON-
VENIENCE ; and, as it overlooks HYDE PARK, it
must necessarily be WELL VENTILATED.
SUITES of ROOMS for FAMILIES,
as per agreement.
HOT and COLD WATER BATHS.
PORTER in Attendance Day and Night.
It is not necessary to mention the quality of the
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, &c. &c„ as he is, and al-
ways has been, noted throughout the COLONIES
for selling nothing but the very best.
JOHN DANKS,
IMPORTER OF
AND ALL THE NECESSARY
Fittings for same,
363 Pitt Street, Sydney.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
WIRE WORKERS,
WISH to call your attention to WIRE GOODS
we make and have in stock as under
FLOWER STANDS, for holding flowers in pots,
made of iron and wire, handsomely framed and
bronzed, suitable for rooms, halls, balconies, ver-
andahs, and conservatories. Also, WIRE FERN
BASKETS, all sizes and prices.
SIEVES and SCREENS, for screening lime,
gravel, coal, &c., all meshes, from 1 hole to 100
holes to the squares inch.
WIRE LATTICE-WORK, for protection of win-
dows from breakage caused by hail-storms or boys’
throwing stones. Also, WIRE NETTING, all sizes,
from 13 in. to 73 in. wide.
CAGES of every description, for canaries and
parrots, singly or in nests, suitable for store-
keepers.
And every description of WIRE WORK made on
the premises.
EAST W A Y, BR OTHERS,
413 GEORGE-STREET.
Illustrated Catalogues on application.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
No. 17 ROYAL ARCADE.
MR. DAVID DUNK,
(Of Paddington)
Begs to inform his old customers and public gener-
ally that he has opened a branch of his FRUITER-
ERS’ ESTABLISHMENT at
No. 17 ROYAL ARCADE.
His great experience, viz., 30 years, is a guarantee
of his ability to excel all others. Remember the
address- RQYAL ARCADE , and
461 South Head Road, Paddington.
D. & R. BRADFORD,
Ironfounders, General
Blacksmiths, &c.,
“CITY FOUNDRY,”
jgp 121 LIVERPOOL STREET,
and at
301 ELIZABETH STREET,
Between Bathurst and Park Streets.
All kinds of Ornamental Castings, Wrought Iron
Palisadings, Wrought and Cast Iron Girders, Cast
Iron Water Pipes, Connections, Water and Fire-
Plugs.
Estimates given for all kinds of Ironwork, &c.
D. W. CLARKSON,
TAILOR,
Removed to 97 Market Street,
Near ELIZABETH STREET.
TWEED SUITS from £3 3s,
jar* TWEED TROUSERS, 16s. 6d.
X PERFECT FIT.


Oriental Gold!
THIS Magnificent Metal—the latest discovery of
science—puts in the shade every substitute for
sterling gold ever offered to the public. The best
imitations heretofore produced are entirely super-
seded and surpassed by the
Brilliant Lustre and Enduring 1 Beauty
of the new alloy. So admirable is its appearance
and quality, that the discoverers have not stooped
to apply it to common uses. No tawdry articles of
inferior design are manufactured of ORIENTAL
GOLD. It is worked up into
JEWELLERY OF THE BEST CLASS AND MOST
TASTEFUL DESIGNS ONLY,
And is perfectly indistinguishable from the most
costly Jewellery.
The highest grades of Sterling Gold Jewellery
may be placed side by side with articles of Oriental
Gold, and the most experienced experts fail to dis-
tinguish one from the other.
The Oriental Gold Co.
Have Opened a
SYDNEY BRANCH IN GEORGE STREET,
Exactly opposite the Central Entrance to the Mar-
kets, where they have presented to public view
An Assortment of Unequalled Beauty
At Prices which represent only a fraction of the
cost of Sterling Gold Jewellery of Identical
Workmanship.
RESIDENTS of SYDNEY and VISITORS from
the COUNTRY are respectfully invited to inspect
our Goods. We count it no trouble to show them,
and no injury if no purchase is made.
We are glad to have visitors, because we know
that our goods please everyone, and that those who
do not purchase will speak of our Jewellery to
their acquaintance in a way that will do us service.
We want to do business with people throughout
Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
PARCELS BY POST ON APPROVAL.
To save customers the trouble of compiling a
list, we make up useful and attractive lists as
folloirs *
No. 1.
Gentleman’s Watch, horizontal movement,
Oriental Gold case, open face with crys-
tal glass, with handsome Oriental Gold
Albert, for £2 0 0
No. 2.
Same as above, except that the watch has
hunting case, for .200
yw” Please observe. We do not pretend that
those are fifty-guinea watches ; but we do affirm
that they are good, honest watches, excellent time-
keepers, articles which do us credit and give satis-
faction to our customers. In appearance they are
indistinguishable from expensive gold watches.
No. 3.
Gentleman’s Silver English Hunting Lever
Watch, capped and jewelled, with Ori-
ental Gold Chain £4 4 0
Oriental Gold Compass Charm .. .. 012 6
Tasteful Breast-pin, Oriental Gold .. ..076
Brilliant Alaska Diamond, Oriental Gold
Ring 076
Oriental Gold Shirt Studs, set of four ..086
£6 0 0
The watch in the above parcel is a first-class
article, such as is usually sold at from six to seven
guineas. We deal direct with the manufacturers,
and on a large scale, and thus we get special terms,
and are enabled to share the advantage with our
customers. The Jewellery, we need scarcely say,
can’t be told from sterling gold articles. The work-
manship is identical with the best. Thus, by buy-
ing this watch from us, purchasers, as a matter of
fact, secure the other articles as a free gift.
No. 4.
A genuine Waltham Watch, nickel case,
open face, crystal glass, as supplied to
the N.S. Wales Railway Department,
with splendid Oriental Gold Albert .. £3 0 0
No. 5.
Same as No. 4, except that the Watch has
sterling silver hunting case, with chain
as before .. .. • ■ • ■ .. 310 0
Note. —We buy these watches by the thousand;
otherwise we could not sell them at the price.
Sportsmen, Bicyclists, Pedestrians, and
Oarsmen—Observe !
No. 6.
A Racing Chronograph nickel-cased watch,
double dials, splendid timekeepers,
with patent fiy-back, marking quarter
seconds, with Oriental Gold Albert .. £4 0 0
No. 7.
Same as above, except that this case is
silver instead of nickel, with Oriental
Gold Chain 550
Ladies ! Please Note.
No. 8.
Lady’s Oriental Gold Watch, handsomely
chased case, full jewelled, highly-
finished works, with handsome treble
chain, two slides and two tassels, of
Oriental Gold, only 2 la 0
The above is a gift which will astonish any re-
cipient. Each article is thoroughly good. The
action of the watch is identical with what is put
into sterling gold cases, of same design, and sold
for £8 and £lO, and there is no difference in the
appearance.
No. 9.
ady’s Oriental Gold Brooch and Earrings £0 15 0
ady’s exquisite Necklet and Locket, Ori-
ental Gold .. .. • • ■ - • • 115 0
,ady’s gem set Gold Ring (real stones) .. 010 0
£3 0 0
The above is a gift packet, specially selected
from our stock at specially low rates for the assort-
ment.
The foregoing are but a tew assortments speci-
fied to save customers the trouble of making a list.
It will be sufficient when ordering to give the
number of the lot, and enclose P. 0.0,. for the
amount Payable to The Oriental Gold Co.
Specally Observe.—lf the articles do not an-
swer expectation on receipt, re-pack them at once
and send them back. If this is done within two
days, or, where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured, we
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and wc will return the
money for the articles not kept.
Every watch sold by us will bo rated and accom-
panied by a written warranty for two years.
We have a very large stock of Earrings, Brooches,
ladies and gent’s Alberts, Rings set with real stones,
crystals, and Alaska diamonds, emeralds, rubies,
arid Italian pearls ; Lockets, Necklets, Collarettes,
Fancy Charms, Breast-pins, Studs, Solitaire Neck
Studs (some very splendid Alaska brilliants). The
prices vary. „ ,
Send us from £1 to £lO, with a list of what you
want, and we will make a choice for you to the
best of our judgment and forward same. If not
approved, and immediately returned, we will
refund as above, or make any desired substitution.
NOTE THE ADDRESS !
474 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE MARKETS.
The Old World Astonished!
ot
*4*.
K.
ih
m
USUI
»XP.
ST. LOU IS, MO.
EXTRACT FROM THE “CONTINENTAL
GAZETTE,” PARIS.
The most surprising' triumph for an American
product at the Paris Exhibition was the success of
E. Anheuser and Co.’s Brewing Association of St.
Louis, which eclipsed Bass, Barclay and Perkins,
Alsop and Guinness, the world-renowned English
brewers, as well as hundreds of rivals from Austria
and Bavaria. It is not surprising that a great sen-
sation was produced when it was understood that
the experts reluctantly pronounced the St. Louis
Beer ‘“superior to any malt liquor ever drank upon
the Continent,” and that all Paris is now seeking to
quaff the American nectar.
Sold by all first-class Hotels throughout Austra-
lia and New Zealand.
J. W. BUTCHER & CO.,
« PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS.
30s.
3'1.“ ,2 ’7 V A’
K V > y“#:.';'\__..>.‘-".‘ “Em J
‘ lﬁli i! :73! NEW“ ‘
— jw m
~53} WW ?
Rang-3, C1" 3/5234": “‘ "
‘ ‘ J m‘ meﬁ’ H H“
, 5,3 “ ”' Ii“ “ ‘ v
2 ‘ ‘ my"“ﬁgm‘m.yfm‘lMWe"W“:\/‘/I‘>‘{"V“"““ ‘ ' l
‘ H “‘ 59‘:“‘5“:3‘3““‘v:.g:}gl/IJfWW“WM“‘f/ W "1"
33:31:“: ‘5“ ‘5"‘3‘:‘m,‘fﬂ‘ﬂfiﬁVl‘:‘3““y‘“‘jj“p"‘{"‘y‘"r“y/yk/W I1. ‘ ‘ ‘
5’, W35:3,:m‘lwW " I") ' 1‘ H
3: f WWW W1 ‘ ‘
:25 .2 Z 3 -J - n Ill/4’ 21:; W‘i‘: ’,
_=f"i:; g ' - a.
, : Z- :Wém
"A '_’ T‘s-E? ‘I‘K/ _ g
._ :3: 7‘ j-rué‘? 4:; 71/7/2717
.Z..—_ ‘_ W 1- Z —»—=
W______ ,Zré as; '
30s.
The Auto phone!
The oriental gold company
have been appointed Australian Agents for
this, the Climax or Musical Invention. Call and
see them.
GEORGE STREET,
Just Opposite the Entrance to the Markets.
The Autophone is a wonderful little instrument,
which, while it weighs less than three pounds, has
the lungs of a full-sized parlour organ, and exe-
cutes its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect.
It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three keys, and
all the parts ox most difficult music.
On it a child can correctly play, without instruc-
tion, any of its music, which at present consists of
over 300 selections from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas,
Waltzes, Polkas, Marches, Popular Songs, &c. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, in which chords predominate, but also
has wonderful power in executing very lively
pieces.
It is pitched for the voice or orchestra, and has
a little card-holder for convenience in singing.
Any orchestral Instrument, Violin, Flute, &c., can
be played to accompany the Autophone.
It is entirely well-adapted for Country Churches,
Sunday Schools, the Family Circle, and also for
Dancing. „
The AUTOPHONE is like every other good thing,
the longer you have it the better you like it; and
as new music is being published every week, it has
an endless fund of amusement in it.
I
E-COVE RED.
TUDY ECONOMY,
and
Have y o urXJ mbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
omitLL Lo l” o»V y dili
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
cuted.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
T . R. SMITH , CHAPMAN & SMITH
Have much pleasure in announcing that they have
commenced business as
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS,
HOUSE, LAND, ESTATE & GENERAL AGENTS,
and will be pleased to use their best efforts
on behalf of
VENDORS and OTHERS
who entrust them with the disposal of
HOUSE ANI) LANDED PROPERTIES,
General Merchandise, &c.,
either by public auction or private contract, at the
RED HOUSE AUCTION ROOMS,
458 GEORGE STREET, opposite the Markets,
and trust by paying strict attention to all business
to merit the support of
BUSINESS MEN AND SPECULATORS.
Subdivisions of land sold on the ground every
Saturday afternoon.
WA TS O X AX II CItA X E ,
SILVER, NICKEL, & GOLD PLATERS.
BRASS POUNDERS AND MANUFACTURERS.
Old Electroplated Ware, Cruets, Spoons, and
Forks, Tea Services, &c., re-silver plated equal to
new, at Moderate Charges.
NICKEL PLATING on Brass, Iron, and Metal
Furniture and Fittings of all kinds in Best Style at
Lowest Prices.
JEWELLERY, Ac., WELL GILT.
STEAM, BRASS, & ELECTROPLATING WORKS,
386 PITT STREET.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
XT n.d.exta,lser,
84 HUXTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Maanger for over ten (10) years.
E WOLFF AND SON,
• Manufacturers of
Black Lead Pencils, Drawing' Chalks, Crayons,
Artists’ Materials, and Stationers’ Sundries.
Makers, by appointment, to Her Majesty’s Govern-
ment and the Bank of England.
Office and Warehouse: 55 Great Queen-street,
Lincoln’s Inn Fields, W.C. Factory: Falcon Pencil
Works, Battersea, London, S.W. A full set of
samples can be seen, and further particulars ob-
tained, on application to
E. B. WOLFF (Sole Agent for N.S.W.), care of
Messrs. Feldheiin, Gotthelf and Co., 30 Hunter-
street, Sydney.
MI T H AND MANN E L L ,
SHIRT TAILORS, HOSIERS, & MERCERS,
298 George Street, Sydney.
Established 1814.
Our CELE BRATED WHITE SHIRTS, ready made
305., 405., 505., 60s. the half-dozen.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
FOWLER’S POTTERY and
BRICKWORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
w,
§5?
NO. 161 KING STREET
(Near Tramway).—
Madame Weigel’s PAPER
PATTERNS, cut in 13 sizes,
for Ladies and children.
Prices from 6d. to 25.. Wei-
gel’s Journal of Fashion, Id.
Catalogue of Fashions, 3d.
Note the Address:—MA-
DAME WEIGEL, 161 King-
st. (near Tramway) Sydney.
Agent in Chippendale:
S. BEALES, Regent-street, near Public Schools.
vresOKlNE,
DELICIOUS, SPARKLING, AND INVIGOR-
ATING TONIC,
Handsomely put up in pint and quart bottles, and
is (par excellence) the Beverage for
BALLS, BANQUETS, PICNICS,
And all festive occasions.
In this warm climate Vigorine will be found to
be a delicious beverage, being pleasant to the
palate, quenching the thirst, and enlivening the
spirits.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
BARKER & JAMES,
MARKET STREET.
THE HARWOOD
Fibre Chair Seating,
Possessing all the qualities of a perfect seat, viz. :
Strength, Durability, Ease, Beauty, Cleanliness
and Cheapness.
ffIHIS CHAIR SEAT is made from the strongest
I known fibres and a perfectly waterproof
cement, and after fifteen years’ constant use, we
can speak positively as to its merits. It cannot
split or check, neither will exposure to sun or rain
affect it.
Awarded Gold Medal at the late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
For RE-SEATING it is unrivalled. In every
house, store and office, are chairs with seats broken.
Any person can re-seat and make as good as new a
chair that is otherwise worthless, at a very trifling
expense.
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE FOR HOME USE.
Agents Wanted in Every District.
From £3 to £5 a week can be made by any smart
man or boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
83 CLARENCE STREET.
r\
Hill
iT VISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
FOB
CHEAPNESS, FIT, ANI) WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any
part of the Colony.
[ASK FOR
’61» 0‘ bxﬁﬁ‘ﬁ
Olébigﬁlmttg 1mm he
Ŧ
LATE
IAMES WALKER'
EDINBURGH i
:
\
Reg
tered
is
mo be had from ALL WINE AND SPIRIT
I CHANTS, and WHOLESALE from the
SOLE AGENTS:
JOSEPH BOYD & SON,
1 CHANGE ALLEY, PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Near the Circular Quay).
To be procured in Cases, Casks, Octaves, and Jaf®>
Please read Certificates of its purity ; als't
Certificates from the 42nd Royal Highland Re# 1 '
ment, “THE BLACK WATCH,” and the 71st Hi#;
land Light Infantry, &c., &c., as supplied them
JAMES WALKER, for 14 years, till his death, a llO
still supplied to them by JAMES HADDOW & COg
the purchasers of James Walker’s business,
the right to use his name on all Labels, Invoices'
Seals, and his Trade marks and symbols.
Notice—The above label registered.
JOSEPH BOYD & SON-
WRIGHT, HEATON & CO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
'and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE :
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF
SOUTH WALES.
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.S.W.:
Goulburn
Yass
Bowning
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Bock
Culcairn
Cowabee
Narandera
Hulong
Carrathool
Hay
Western District, N.S.W.:
Capertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dutobo
Narromine
Nevertire
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblin
Nymagee
Cobar
Coomunble
Bourko
Northern District, N.S.W.:
Morpeth
Gunnedah
Narrabri
Walgett
Brewarrina
Taimvorth
Uralla
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Line:
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby
Yeulba
Cambooya
Central Line:
Rockhampton
Bogantungan
Emerald
Capella
Comet
Northern Line:
Townsville
Charters Towers
Ravenswood Junction
. Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
WM. MCCULLOCH & CO., LIMITED
SW" Agencies in all parts of the world.
£JHOWDER BAY PLEASURE
CAN BE ENGAGED EOR
SCHOOLS AND OTHER PICNICS,
AT
CHOWDER BAY OFFICE, CIRCULAR
With Steamers licensed to carry 2HO passcu£ cl ’ s '
Picnic Partiei Catered for.


5^> S
Hem
m
wmrt& s».
VX V 5
W N
&
553 & 541 GeORSES
fl?
f
M\RJiY OPPOSITE POST Office.
LiflTeor 29s ©eopce street
foijv
poodle
and itssSl:
Tobaccos.
“ Yankee
Conqueror”
I?ni® ove Brands are so well established in the
nr,/i ar, d tastes of all smokers for their purity
on** exce H ence > that it merely remains for us to
'Oition all against imitations which we regret are
E'l'nerous.
yfuixsoyr & SONS’ Registered Chief Brands are—
p ai 'k Twists : Yankee Doodle, Twists, 10's & 20’s ;
conqueror, Twists, 20’s ; Sir Roger, Thick Twists,
ft® 5 Challenge, Twists, 10’s and 20’s. Dark Plug
APOaceos ; The original and only genuine Tin Tag.
Yankee Doodle; Plugs (stamped: with a single
round Tin Tag). Conqueror Plugs (stamped with
•t single round Tin Tag). Bright Tobaccos : Gem
f the South ; Sir Roger, &c., &c. Cut Tobaccos :
in 34-lb tins and packets—full weights and with
Rtfre tin foil) Rough Cut Ruby ; Oriental Mixture ;
•'Ogroliead ; Gold and Cigarette Leaf, &c., &c., &c.
pA-B.—We import regular shipments of Briar,
'merry, Meerschaum, Clay, and all other Pipes;
Jkars, Cigarettes, and all other Tobacconists
•oods.
DIXSON and SONS,
155 YORK STREET SYDNEY.
l' h
- s
. . ~.. 3‘0“”,3- ;" ‘ , { -- .“': .‘ ._ .
. ‘ *\.NJ..’.\“.‘ \ L..‘ g.‘." . " "3 .
‘ . 3_ , ..v: V'\'\ ‘ .'.t ‘ - 1
‘ ,. - ,, .- .r- I ‘ . -- '
‘ ‘ ‘. ._ ,V >. J ‘
> . '.‘. . ~ A
' . y g ‘ .2333 .1 . ' ‘ " '-
_A v. _ ‘ '
‘ . 4r
- . a
v ,, u - t > ‘
. v ‘ 1‘
C. COWLES,
Grunmaker & Importer.
. Sole Agent for
V - & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
Dor Price and Quality have no equal,
latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &c.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET.
N.R.— Second-hand Guns by best makers.
H. Ariell and Co.’ s Agencies.
s Wall
OW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, Canter
Syr
MlLLS.—Superior Victorian Oat-
Ur/r an d Pearl Barley.
‘i l . j( >N & BURROWS’ prize assorted Confec-
j tjonery.
’ KITCHEN & SONS, No. 1 Mottled and Toilet
,T r r r >aps.
' •,-.,M‘KENZIE & COX- Coffee, Mustard, Cocoa,
ae a, in an q jjp. packets ; dressed Rice,
HUNm latent Groats. . , . ..
y 1 & CO.’S Prize leaking Powders, Adelaide
<>! ains ’ -Paper Bags, M‘.
' i4 » and 345 KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
Sydney Gymnasium f
LIVERPOOL STREET.
Ai AJ)ltss ’ and Gentlemen’s Class Daily.
* jlj branches of athletics taught.
H. d’HAIICOURT, Instructor.
Wine, Bodega,
MORN’S passage, back of Messrs. IV. H.
Oj . Paling and Co.’s,
ill fe es t AVinos, by the glass or bottle, may be had
Bodega. Hot Spiced Wines during Winter.
Open from 9 a.m. till 0 p.m.
TO CONNOISEURS of WHISKEY & BRANDY.
W. & A. Gilley’s CASTLE BRAND WHIS-
KEY and L’OR EXTRAIT BRANDY are the
oldest and purest spirits imported.
TUCKER & CO., Agents,
377 Georg e-street.
Robert butcher & co.
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
JAMES MtCGitEfiOH,
30S GEORGE STREET.
V
CELEBRtft 0 -:
°^ScotcW>^
'o^
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD’S
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCH N A P P S.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. 2v£a/tru.red.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottled in bond for Export at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, therefore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “Whiskey Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
Foster ’s Bugle Brand.
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
NS
m
mm
ite
I
BASS PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLI) BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE’
MERCHANTS.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
MASON BItOTHERS,
HSSRSffI
Asfi
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGER Y, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
E A R T H E N \V A R E,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. G A YEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
V
C. B. MODINI,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading- Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 602 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B. —Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborne ; also Angelo Bor-
doni, of Brescia, Italy.
HISTORY REPEATS ITSELF.
As Eve tempted the First Man, so EVE TEMPTS
THE PRESENT MAN; but, luckily, not the same
Eve, but
Ta.rr2.ss
149 KING STREET,
Opposite Theatre Royal Entrance.
With the Best Brands of AM Tobacco and Cigars.
J. W. R. CLARKE,
Bookseller & Stationer
5 and 6 MARKET BUILDINGS,
GEORGE ST R EET, SYDN E Y,
Opposite Market Street.
346 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Stubbs & Smith,
LATE JOSEPH BULLARD,
Tailors, Mercers & General
Outfitters.
J3T“ A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF
Ready-made Men ’s& Boys’ Clothing
ALWAYS ON HAND.
Note the Address:
34 6 G EORGE STREET,
Near the Post Office.
Turkish Baths.
For GENTLEMEN—OPEN DAILY (Sundays and
Wednesday afternoons excepted).
For LADIES.—On Wednesday Afternoons only,
from 2 p.m. till 10 p.m.
These Baths have been pronounced to be highly
beneficial to all persons suffering from rheumatism,
gout, neuralgia, dyspepsia, indigestion, cold, sci-
atica, and all complaints of this nature, as well as
being a healthy, invigorating renewing of the
system to all persons obliged to lead sedentary
lives.
Try it, and experience its wonderful effects.
Prices of Admission—Single bath, ss. Six tickets, £l.
After 5 p.m., 2s. for gentlemen only. Quarterly
ticket, S 5. Family ticket as per arrangement.
C. A. SHERWIN, Manager.
Bligh Street.
PAPERHANGING S!
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSERY PAPERS,
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, &c.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwick,
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &c.
G. H. SMITH,
MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER
OF
Hats cSs Caps,
30 2 GEORGE STREET,
Three doors South of Hunter Street.
INDUSTRIAL "AND PROVIDENT PERMi
NENT BENEFIT BUILDING AND INVES'I
MENT SOCIETY.
Deposits received at the following rates, viz:—
For twelve months .. .. 7 per cent.
„ six „ .... 6 „
~ three „ .... 5 „
Special rates for large amounts.
WILLIAM JARRETT, Manager.
22 Royal Arcade, George Street, Sydney.
MORSE and RILEY
(Late N.S.W. Detective Force),
Who have had many years’ experience in America,
England, New Zealand, and the Australian Colonies,
beg to inform Merchants and Tradespeople in gene-
ral that they have opened the above premises as a
PRIVATE ENQUIRY OFFICE,
where they hope, by strict attention to all matters
entrusted to tlieir care, to merit a share of their
patronage.
Cases of Divorce, Libel, Fraud, Missing Friends,
&c., traced. Strictest secrecy in all cases.
Office hours, 9 a.m. till 10p.m. First-class references
Prepared according to the directions of Prof.
E. N. Horsford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED FOR
DYSPEPSIA, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES,
HYSTERIA, WAKEFUSNESS, SEA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY, &c.
No Danger can Attend its Use.
Great Relief toy its Use.
WINSLOW LEWIS, M.D., of Boston, the distin-
guished and popular physician, said:
“Having in my own person experienced those
ills for which the Acid Phosphate is prescribed, I,
having found great relief and alleviation by its
use, most cheerfully attest my appreciation of its
excellence.”
Indigestion and Itladdcr and Kidney
Troubles.
Portland, Me., Oct. 2nd, 1880.
Horsford’s Acid Phosphate has become a favour-
ite rem edy in my practice. When completely tired
out by prolonged wakefulness and overwork, it is
of the g'reatest value to me. I have' given it in
certain forms of dyspepsia, in all cases of nervous
exhaustion from overwork, in certain affections of
the bladder and kidneys, and have always been
satisfied with the results. I prescribe it more and
more as I become better acquainted with its pro-
perties. Of all the samples of medicine sent me
during the past dozen years, Horsford’s Acid Pho-
sphate is the only one I have ever found which has
become a necessity in my own household. Per-
haps I should hardly have been willing to write my
impressions of the Acid Phosphate if I had not
in my own person experienced its good effects.
C. O. FILES, M.D.
Derangement of Secretory and Nervous
Systems.
_ „ Rutland, Vt., Jan. 23,1879.
While I am exceedingly averse to giving certifi-
cates, and almost always decline to do so, yet in
the case of “Horsford’s Acid Phosphate,” I am
willing to say, that, having used it very consider-
ably, I can testify to its great value in functional
derangements of the secretory and nervous sys-
tems. CHAS. WOODHOUSE, M.D.
Indigestion in Pregnancy, Malarial
Debility.
Springfield, 111.. Sept. 10, 1880.
I am much pleased with your Acid Phosphate,
and must say that it has done well in my hands in
indigestion, and also in that form which sometimes
occurs in pregnancy. I like it very much in mala-
rial debility, and in administering quinine, and in
various other diseases. As long as your article
keeps good, I will continue to use it. In fact,
there is not a week passes that I do not prescribe
it. W. S. M'BURNIE, M.D.
Uterine Diseases.
Philadelphia, Jan. 20,1881.
Having used Horsford’s Acid Phosphate very
extensively in my practice, which consists mostly
of uterine diseases and disorders incident thereto,
it is with pleasure I attest my appreciation of its
usefulness. W. L. ATLEE, M.D.
Liver and Kidney Derangements.
Boston, Mass., May 19,1880.
In regard to the Horsford’s Acid Phosphate, I
have used it very extensively, and with the most
remarkable success. I give it in dyspepsia and in
all cases where there is derangement of the liver
and kidneys. With my patients it has agreed won-
derfully. O. G. CILLEY, M.D.
Sexual Weakness, Indigestion, &c.
Wabash, Ind., Dec. 26,1879.
I gave one bottle of Horsford’s Phosphate in
case of nervous debility and weakness of sexual
organs, accompanied with indigestion; patient
aged 48 years ; was much benefited. This man had
for 15 years used intoxicants to excess, but during
the last two years has entirely abstained. He
thinks the Acid Phosphate is of much benefit, to
him. C. S. ELLIS, M.D.
Gravel, Spermatorrhoea, &c.
St. Louis, Mo., March 24,1880.
I have used Horsford’s Acid Phosphate in di-
seases of the urinary organs, such as gravel, and
particularly spermatorrhoea, with very good re-
sults, and think it a valuable remedy in those
diseases. I shall give it a further trial before
reporting at length.
T. H. NEWLAND, Jr., M.D.
80?“ Pamphlets, with full information as to the
wonderful curative properties of Horford’s Acid
Phosphate, furnished free on application to
BARRON, MOXHAM & CO., SYDNEY.
IParties ordering- Acid Phosphate are par-
ticularly requested to cut out and forward. The
Bulletin advertisement.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported into this country, and have
gained throughout the colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. 1
leather, and the upholstery is unique
BECAUSE the best of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their finish.
BECAUSE they are each and all built under special 1
instructions to, and personal supervision of r
one of the leading carriage builders in America,,
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say they are tur
BEST.
American Carriage Emporiiim r
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYJOftrEY
BARRON, MOXHAM & *JO.,
Sole Agents,-


9
RILEY BROTHER
THE NOTED CH
t
Have now Received the Great Bulk of their Goods, purchased Direct from the ManufA
ttjrers, thereby saving all the immediate profits, and are prepared to supply the public
both in town and country,
IMI HUMAN! TIPAPP.PV fIHFAPPP THAN PM!
■
The following are a few of the Bargains now offering. Every article is guaranteed sound, clean, and good
White Blankets, for single beds, ss. lid. per pair
White Blankets, for double beds, 12s. 9d. per pair
White Elannel, fair quality, 7Jd. per yard
White Elannel, full yard wide, per yard
Horrocks’ Longcloth, genuine, 3fd per yard
Good White Twill Sheeting, BJd. per yard, double widt
Soft American Longcloth, 2fd. per yard
The Best Colonial Tweed, 2s. 6d. per yard.
HILEYIDB hive tlis Laiysal ail Cheapest Stock if is': aai Bays' Clotkiay is the Colony.
THESE ARE A FEW OF THE STYLES AND PRICES
Boys* Suits©* Suits, ss. lid each
Boys’ Suits, 4s. lid each
Boys’ Tweed Cairo Suits, 7s. 6d. each
Boys’ Tweed Nelson Suits, 10s. 6d. each
Youths’ Four-button Sac Suits, 12s. 9d. each
Gent’s Four-Button Sac Suits, Tweed or Serge, 19s. 6d-
Gent’s Four-Button Walking Coats, 17s. 6d.
Gent’s Warm Ulster Overcoats, 17s. 6d.
Gent’s Doublerbreasted Winter Jackets, 15s.
Gent’s Fashionable Overcoats, 15s.
RILEY BROTHERS’
Drapery £5 Bales!
Carriage Eree by Mail Coach.
Carriage Eree by Steamer.
Carriage Eree by Train.
Insured against Damage.
Insured against Loss.
£5 Bales of Drapery.
£5 Bales of Clothing.
£5 Bales for Eamilies.
£5 Bales for Ladies.
£5 Bales for Children.
RILEY BROTHERS,
r'
£
h
',v- \i
-5
•.V
r
i
-Tv'.'
s
~\-
zr-'zn*
<s>»r
'‘K/'N?
§3^S=g
»t
:
£s3*?:
RILEY BROTHER s
Drapery £5 Bales
Carriage free, and everyth]
paid to a thousand miles.
Please send for a book of p
and try a bale.
You will save £1 out of every
*
and get good wearing arti c
Beware of advertisers who
deliver their bales at the
way Stations; we deliver
right to your door.
RILEY BROTHERS, Syd n
d
