

ANTHONY HORDERN
AND SONS
f
Haymarket,
/
i • >
X
m
res-
f NTH ON Y HORDERN& SONS, Palace Emporium, Haymarket (only)
Withiwl oai Departments is now replete with Spring and Summer Goods in all the newest fashions, styles, and novelties.
°w Departments 1X W ° e^S We iaye °P over 1D00 cases of Goods, ex V. & 0., Orient, and other steamers. The following is a list of
'nuts
Velvets
burning Goods
Portmanteaus
Tweeds
Carpets
Electroplate
Hollow-ware
Music
School Requisites
Millinery
Costumes
Underclothing
Boots and Shoes
Clothing
Crockery
Floorcloths
Hosiery
Laces
Perfumery
Haberdashery
Curtains
Gloves
Ilibbons
Hardware
Patent Medicines
Stationery
Plowers
Dressmaking
Hats and Caps
Mercery
Furniture
Cutlery-
Tinware
Wool Goods
Toys
Feathers
Children’s Jackets
Beds, Bedding, &c., &c., &c.
Recollect, we have only one address, and have no connection with any other firm of a similar surname.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket, only.


THE
G-resut
[HIRE
07 THB
25©t©il
Boot Trad
09 SYDNEY.
IB
JOMDJ HUNTER’S
RENOWNED CITY BOOT PALACE,
_ i i t T+ * /-vTxr <» ii++lp> morp than five years since tlie City Boot Balace was first opened, and
To my Patrons and the General 1 i blic.—It is n0T * a . . has gradually increased year by year, until it has
the success that has attended my endeavours to give d \ ould avail n ? yse lf of the opportunity to return thanks for
now reached a point far beyond my most sanguine expectat , maintain tliat prestige which the City Boot Palace has now
past favours, assuring you that no effort will be spared on my p ni of a p 0 ve establishment by holding my HFTH
gained. I have determined to celebrate the 5th Anniveisaiy L 0 ds will be marked in plain figures at such prices that must
Pirst-class Boots and Slices, at less man mey ouum -
Gent’s Goloshed E.S. Boots, English make ... from 6s. 6d.
Gent’s Plain E.S. Boots, superior make ° s - »“•
Ladies’Morocco Evening Shoos ... •••••• ” T .fl t, ’
Ladies’ Patent Dress Shoes
Ladies’ Levant E.S. Boots ...
Ladies’ Kid E.S. Boots
. „ , t m
from 3s. Hi
u 4s. 9d.
} } 5s. Hi
Choice selection of Ladies’ Button and Lace Boots. 7 , T “’Tf" the „' e of clearin
Remember the 5th Annual Sale, at John Hunter’s CityJBootof stock of any kind. Everything*
SLf will fevom me with a'cisit to my 5th Annual Sale, I remain, Ladies and Gentle*
yours obediently, JOHN IIUNTLH.
’cr«
IMPORTER OE WINES & SPIRITS,
Beg. to announce to hi. “SeCfvWdSom'A*^ 10 h “ * 0 ° mPl ' to ’
Wholesale and Retail Bottle Department.
Which is now replete with a to Europe 81 theiSore confidently rewniii
selected hy the proprietor the following list, hopes to merit a share of ti-
the quality, an d by charging a him.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.’S
Bon Accord Brass, Copper, Lead & Iron Works,
8 and 9 MACQUARIE PLACE*
PLUMBERS AND GAS FITTERS, ART METAL
IMPORTERS OF CHANDELIERS, BRASS WINDOW BASH .
THE MARSHALL
WINDOW FASTENER,
THE CHEAPEST
and
MOST INEXPENSIVE
FASTENER MADE.
Prevents all rattling, and
fastens the window at
any height.
No weights, pulleys, cords, &c„
required.
PALE BRANDY.
Per Bottle.
8 d
6 6
Gilbev’s very old Brandy, gold top " " „ „
Hennessy’s V.O. ((very ol«0 bottled by P. R. L. « 0
Hennessy’s 3 Star (**♦) • •
Dubois and Co.’s Old *♦* Pale
Fine Old Pale, bottled by P. R. L. .. ”50
Hennessy’s Battle Axe ( ) 5 n
Mart ell’s Blue Label (*)
Flasks 2s3dand
Hennessy’s Draught Pale Brandy.' per' Impe-
rial quart
0
3 6
1 6
6s and 5 0
DARK BRANDY.
Hennessy’s 3 Star (***)
Marten’s Very Old •;
Martell’s Old •• •■ , ••• •; 6sana
Kartell's Dark, per Imperial quart
Flasks .. • • " "
6 6
0 6
4 0
5 0
2 3
LOWNDE’S W. I. RUM.
DARK.
Quality—Good ..
Better
Still Better .. •• -
Quality—No. 1, per Imperial quart
No. 2, ,, »»
No. 3, ». ••
No. 4, »t ti
Flasks
6s and
3s and
Is 9d and
JAMAICA RUM.
Very Finest "*
Red Heart.. • •
Fine Jamaica, per Imperial quart
Jamaica Rum, in Flasks .•
:: :: t
.. 5
2s6dand 2 3
BEERS (BRITISH).
Best Brands of Ales and Porters always on hand.
Burgundy ..
Ettamogah, red
Muscat
„ Reisling
Fallon’s Shiraz ..
ALBURY (N.S.W.) WINES
quarts
2 6
2 6
2 6
2 6
3 6
Per Belli*.
i<
II
I >
II
ii
II
II
ii
i (
(!!
- 1'
... i'
„ 11
„ 11
r. n
POUT WINE.
10-year old, Gilbey's .. ..
Celebrated Four Diamond .. ■ •
Duality—No. 1 (very superior old)
No. ***** grape
No. >.
No.
No. ♦♦
No. *
Draught Port Wine, per Imperial quart j | J
SHERRY.
40-year old, Gilbey’s ... ••• •••
Very Finest Amontillado (very diy)
Fine Amontillado ...
Celebrated Four Diamond Sherry
Common Sherry
Draught Sherry Wine, per Imperial quart j
BRITISH WINES.
James Heddle’s Ginger Wine
Orange Wine
IRISH WHISKY.
OkTlfublin Whlskv (♦**’) bottled by CuuC
Kinahan’s unrivalled L h ’" ...
Thorne’s Old Irish Whisky asCdainl
Jameson’s -
Kinahan’s Draught, per Imperial quart
Jameson’s „ ”
Flasks ••• *’•
SCOTCH WHISKY.
Walker’s t-ycar old, in bulk
Thistle Blend
Royal Blend
Lome Highland
Kilmarnock
olenlivet Whisky, per imperial G uar $ g6 j ac l
Flasks
4s and
GIN,
,|f
Hue Bell or Yellow Seal Geneva -
lelebrated Key Brand, very lurg rt
bottle containing more than “ ** jtfi
flasks Key Gin
Celebrated CHAMPION ROLLER SKATES, and ev APPARATUS.
Bodies, and all Accessories. Manufacturers of the PORTABLE aeuu
Ranges Fitted with Hot add Cold Water, Circulating Apparatus and Boilers.
MEdIlLISTS AND SPECIAL PRIZE HOLDERS. PT ESTABLISHED 1855.
ME IN RATH & CO.,
SHIRTMAKERS,
96 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST AND BEST-FITTING SHIRTS IN AUSTRALIA.
3 Men’s Regatta Shirts with Collars for 7s. Cd., in 20 patterns.
Largest stoek h White and Coloured Shirt, lu Sydney. Allklnd.ol Shirts made to order.
Meinrath’s
SHIRTS.
Meinrath’s
SHIRTS.
San Francisco Palace of
o * V i?n a P ATjACE OF ART, so well known. "tliroii^lioiit»
Th f <tal. i" -Mil *{>» “““ »ign-clns 3 portrait
the Austi ahau coiem , worR Ior wh ieh a has been noted,
Ponies and Enlargements to Life Size, by new and improved pro
1 cesses, from any photograph or negative, are now taken.
Opals, Autotype, Transfer, or Albuminized Paper, in Crayon or Coloured.
, n : ftf Arti8ts wh0 have rendered the work of this establishment famous,
The same staff ol Artiste, w number) taken during the past four years, carefully
511 prt^erved^from « on application by sendin.name and address.
W. tTbENNETT, Manager.
Station or any wharf in tho city, Fiee ot Chaigre. opiRiTS On receipt of tbc '.
genuine
. Util O "
-—. : - «“^S^i5QUiEf3V
Orders payable at the Haymarket Post Ollice.
Kindly Note the Address-
P. R. LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail Wine & Spirit Merchant
George and Gipps Sts., Haymarket, Sj


THE BULLETIN
Vol. 1.—No. 17— New Series
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1883.
Price—6d.
tHF CIRCULATION OF “ THE BULLETIN"
IS NOW MORE THAN DOUBLE THAT OF
ANY OTHER WEEKLY NEWSPAPER IN
N g yp—THAT OF ONE VERY OLD ESTAB-
LISHED PAPER , WHICH EXCEEDS * 4 THE
BULLETIN'S" BY ABOUT ONE-FIFTH,
ALONE EXCEPTED. THE CIRCULATION
OF “THE BULLETIN ” IS THE SECOND
GREATEST AMONG THE WEEKLIES OF
AUSTRALASIA.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1883.
The Counsel for the Prosecution.
One of the miserable consequences of the
practice relating to contempt of court at
present existing, is that when a presiding
Judge utters a deliverance prior to passing
sentence on an offender in this matter, it is
not a judgment which he delivers, but a
speech for the prosecution. And this ex
pnrte deliverance is invested with the pecu-
liarity that, ex parte though it be, no reply
ispermitted. The arguments employed may
beglaringly fallacious, the precedents quoted
may be one-sided and misleading, and the
whole tenor of the address fnay be warped
by prejudice or passion. Yet no oppor-
tunity is afforded of exposing the fallacies,
of adducing contrary precedents, or of indi-
cating where the prejudice or passion of the
pleader has carried him beyond the bounds
of legitimate argument. The radical irre-
gularity of the entire procedure involves
the extraordinary anomaly that to reply to
the speech for the prosecution would be to
commit a fresh offence. This, of course, is
neither consonant with the spirit of British
justice, nor with the letter of British law.
It is the exercise of a power contrary to the
constitutional safeguards intended to fence
round the liberty of individuals. This power
has never been conferred upon any order or
caste of men. It has been explicitly denied
to the Sovereign, to Nobles, to Ministers of
State, to Commanders of troops. In short,
the instinct of liberty and of mutual protec-
tion has sedulously guarded against the
exercise of any such power by the persons
and classes from whom, in the past, experi-
ence had taught that arbitrary conduct was
to be apprehended. It had not occurred to
our forefathers to include Judges in that
category. From time immemorial it has
been the splendid distinction of these func-
tionaries to have been regarded as the
bulwarks which intervened betwixt the
weakness of the individual and the unjust
excesses of amonarch’s will, anoble’s power,
a minister’s influence, or an armed mercen-
ary’s violence. There have been infamous
exceptions, ilut these not more numerous
than suffice, by the distinct relief in which
they stand out in history, and the execration
in which the names of the individuals are
held, as contrasted with the veneration
which surrounds the memory and character
the British judges collectively, to prove
the rule,
* * *
It is a most instructive illustration of the
Persistence of human passions, and of the
invariable growth of .certain dispositions
under particularly favourable circumstances,
that the judicial order should have gradu-
% arrogated to itself the arbitrary powers
which for centuries it has been its highest,
function to restrain in others, until to-day a
judge is the only man in a British cora-
niunity who can exercise an arbitrary power
°ver the liberty or fortunes of another man
w hohas offended himself, or his caste, or in-
curred his displeasure. But it is equally an
lustration of the elevating and purifying
influence of high and honorable traditions
Ihat the power thus arrogated has never
been abused in Great Britain. Yet the
P®wer is none the less an unwarranted and
dangerous one. It is a power not conferred,
but assumed. Conditions of life have so
altered, that immunity is not now dependent
on physical, hut upon moral surroundings.
In old days men were powerful and formid-
able and irresponsible in proportion to the
thickness of their castle walls, the width of
their moats, and the number of their armed
retainers. Against the commandment of a
man so entrenched there was virtually no
appeal. There was no arguing with a mail-
clad tyrant, who, surmounted by the in-
struments of his power, resented an an-
swer by a blow on the mouth, and re-
torted on a demonstration of his injustice
by confiscation of the protestant’s belong-
ings, and the consequent misery of his wife
and babes. In these days, when a class of
men are mailed in privilege and entrenched
behind barriers of legal chevaux-de-frise, it
is possible for one of their number to abuse
in like manner his opportunities and to
repel a querulous suitor by a buffet from the
Bench, and by a deprivation of property
which to some may involve ruin. It matters
not that the blow is not physical. The effect
of the stroke is the same —a pain, a humilia-
tion. It will be easy for our readers to under-
stand that for a man of domineering temper,
who has not enjoyed the elevating and chas-
tening influences of the traditions which in
the mother-country operate upon aspirants
to and occupants of the judicial Bench, the
temptations to strain his illicit and fortuitous
powers are practically irresistible, and that
the withdrawal from colonial Judges of the
dangerous and exceptional powers so deli-
cately exercised by their greater brethren
in a different social atmosphere, has become
necessary for the preservation of the popular
liberties, and even, indirectly, for the pro-
tection of society from the devices of rogues
and the schemes of public plunderers.
• • •
“ It is essential,” said Chief Justice Martin
in his recent harangue, * to the satisfactory
working of these tribunals that their deci-
sions should be accepted with respect. ’ ’ This
is true; but it does not contain all the truth,
or the truth most essential to the argument
in which His Honor was engaged. “ It is
essential,” we say, “ to the satisfactory work-
ing of these tribunals that their decisions
should be worthy of respect.” There is no
system which more certainly demoralizes a
people or community than inculcating the
lesson that a pretence of respect should be
given to matters which are not in their real
nature respectable. Nothing more certainly
corrupts an institution or a man than false
deference and undeserved adulation. His
Honor’s proposition was general. We shall
convert it into two particular propositions,
thus: “ It is essential to the satisfactory
working of these tribunals that their just
decision should be accepted with respect—
and that their unjust decisions should be
visited with scorn.” But, it may be asked,
who shall judge ? Who judges mankind ?
Their Maker. Who shall judge judges ?
Their makers; the powers whence they
derive their authority, their existence —the
people ! If the Supreme Court Bench were
of Divine origin and authority, it might
maintain the claims which Judge Martin
makes for it. Being but human, it will
have to bow to the authority which created
it. For, to put the thing practically, sup-
pose the people will not submit to its pre-,
tensions, it must succumb. Luckily, the
Chief Justice has no standing army at his
back, no band of Pretorians devoted to his
cause, because indulged and gorged at the
cost of the people over whom he would fain
rule, in his judicial sphere, as despot. It is
not singular, but still worthy of remark,
that iu modern times the first symptom of
any man, be he monarch or clown, and of
any class, patrician or plebeian, being dis-
posed to exercise arbitrary authority, issure
to be an attempt to intimidate the Press.
The authority claimed for the Judges by
their chief, not being of divine ordination,
and not being supported by force, cannot be
maintained except by reason on the one
hand, and by the consent of the people,
whom that authority threatens to enslave,
on the other.
* * *
But, Sir James, as champion of the claims
of the Bench, goes on to say it would in a
far greater degree impair the usefulness of
the tribunals, were unsuccessful litigants
not only to question the accuracy of its de-
cisions, but to personally disparage and
vilify its members. Assuredly nothing could
so impair the usefulness of a tribunal of
justice as that it should number among its
members men who could, by mere vilifica-
tion and disparaging allusion, be effectually
brought into contempt. But we affirm that
none but true aspersons could do that injury
to a man in a station so elevated, and so ex-
posed to observation, as a J udge. A J udga
is a leading actor on the stage of public life.
If his talents and qualifications be equal to
his functions and position, disparagement
cannot harm him, any more than it affected
David Garrick. There must be a consensus
of opinion to blast a man who performs his
functions before every eye. Aud the popular
reverence for the judicial function is as
genuine and thorough as the popular con-
tempt for an inefficient or paltry occupant
of a seat on that noble bench is hearty.
Judges enjoy the same rights to protection
from libellous aspersions as other citizens
enjoy. And such is the reverence for their
office, that should one of them be wantonly
and unjustly assailed in his reputation,
either as a Judge or as a man, it is certain
that any ordinary jury would record a ver-
dict which would act as an effectual remedy
and deterrent. No further protection is
really necessary, and by claiming special
additional rights, Judges merely alienate
from themselves the sympathies which are
their real safeguards. Sir James Martin
laid stress upon the maxim that no man has
the right to make himself the judge in his
own cause, but he denies the application of
the very same principle by insisting that
men belonging to a particular small body
shall have the exclusive and uncontrolled
right to be the judges in the case of each
other. It is scarcely necessary to indicate
how such a privilege is certain to operate.
All history tells a uniform story, and the
moral has been too recently and aptly en-
forced by one of Sir James’ own colleagues,
who delicately hinted that there was such a
thing as a determination to “stick to a
brother Judge.”
• • •
The mischief arising from the custom
which converts a so-called judgment into a
harangue for the prosecution, has been most
forcibly illustrated by Sir James himself, by
the series of ex-parte statements with which
he struggled to make out his case. “ Care is
taken,” said Sir James, “to provide as far as
practicable that the persons constituting
these tribunals shall possess the education,
experience, character, firmness, and impar-
tiality necessary to fit them for so important
a position.” Had there been any'right of
reply on the part of the defendants, it is
MISS LOUISE BEAUDET, AS “MARIE,” IN “THE WOMAN OF THE PEOPLE.”


Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above is Rum marl*
aud taken at bod-time. n °*
ET’ PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6s. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS 1
Single Settle De;artmen
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
ScL.
A GLASS OP WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world. 1
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome of all Beverages.
C. W, ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNBLISH WHISKY,
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGBB PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HBNNBSSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDT,
6s. 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street, Sydney.
L! WOOL! W00L1
Season 1883-84.
HILL, CLARK & GO.
SYDNEY.
THE WOOL GROWERS OF NEW SOUTH
WALES AND QUEBNSDAND.;
THE rapid approach of the incoming wool
season reminds us to tender our thanks for
the very liberal support which has been accorded
to us during past years ; and while doing so we
take the opportunity to solicit a continuance of
the same support in the future which we have
enjoyed in the past.
On referring to our circular issued last year we
find that we therein anticipated a large increase in
the quantity of wool which would be sold in these
colonies, and the result proved that we were cor-
rect. We also predicted that the prices obtained
in the colonies would be In favour of those growers
who sold in the
LOCAL MARKET,
and this also has been fully borne out by facts.
We are also glad to say that this market all
through the last season was extremely active, and
the large quantity of wool sold proves that
SYDNEY
is fast becoming, what it is destined to be in future,
the
WOOL MARKET OF AUSTRALIA.
We have therefore no hesitation in urging upon
growers the advantage of first offering their worn
here, where buyers from all the manufacturing
countries of Europe and America attend to supply
their wants from
FIRST HANDS.
Failing sales in Sydney, we are prepared to ship to
our London Agents, making liberal cash advances.
When sales are effected,
OUR CHARGES
are made on as low a scale as possible, and all woo
offered in our Warehouses, and not sold, is sunjec
only to the nominal charge of
ONE SHILLING PER BALE,
which covers receiving, delivering, Aveighing, an
storage accommodation.
Our Warehouses are partiularly well Hgbted. an
are most conveniently arranged for the display
wool, in any quantity, to the greatest advantag •
The most careful attention is gi ven to the valuing
of every lot, both large and small, so that uom s
Avill be sold under the full market value.
Way-bills and all further information forwar e
upon application.
HILL, CLARK AND CO.,
WOOL WAREHOUSES,
CIRCULAR QUAY.
Offices: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Rates of Subscription to The Bulletin
are—For one year, 24s.: half-year, 12s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—In advance.
The Advertising Rates are 6s, per inch;
special positions In the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions,
15 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 25 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion, Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
< usy to conceive that this statement, instead
t I passing uneontradicted, would have been
ik nte-stod in almost every particular. It is a
it. at t ot fit univeisal knowledge that every
one ol these desiderata is commonly made
subotd nine to other considerations in the
appointment of Judges. The directest road
to 111* Bcrioh runs through the quagmire of
political tile. The experience demanded is
Hues pel ience of the hired advocate, ready
to sell his talents to truth or falsehood, as
on# oi the ot her comes into the market with
n too til its hand. The “impartiality”
is sooui od by giving to the political
lawyer, who, as the keenest and most
atdont pat lizan, is made Attorney-General,
the almost absolute right to claim any
judicial seal, even to that of Chief Jus-
11110, which may fall vacant during his terra
ol dike. A nd instances have not been want-
ing when the post of Attorney-General has
been made the return for pecuniary assist-
ance lent by a moneyed lawyer to a needy
Premier. Care! Yes, alternated with reck-
lessness, corruption, and sometimes intrigue.
JO von Sir .1 ames Martin must be aware that
judges have owed their elevation to the last-
niiniod cause. He will be able to recall to
mind an incident when, after high place on
the judicial bench had been promised to a
distinguished politician aud barrister, pres-
sure from a gang of schemers induced a Pre-
mier to break his plighted word, and bestow
the seat on another man, accompanying the
treason with circumstances of revolting in -
dignity. It would have been too much to
expect that any ordinary man, knowing
himself innocent of any complicity in the
intrigue, would have refused to avail him-
self of the opportunity placed in his way.
But, as “care is taken that the persons con-
stituting these tribunals ” shall possess a
special elevation of character, it would, per-
haps, not have been too much to expect that
any man lit to sit on the Bench would have
proudly and firmly refused to participate in
any advantage derived from an scandalous
transaction.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Comte de Chambord.
When a famous man—famous for thought, or
action, or (vulgarest of all sources of fame) birth —
dies, editors innumerable put down their pipes,
hunt up the latest edition of “ Men of the Time,”
aud print what is to be found there concerning the
deceased. It may be correct or it may not. This is
of small moment. It is handy, and the mere filling
in of the date of death completes it. The Comte
be Chambord having joined the constantly-swell-
ing majority, every paper reaching us gives with
dreary iteration the same precis of his common-
place life. How does it interest us to know that
Henri Charges Ferdinand Dieudonne D’Ar-
tois, Due de Bordeaux and Comte de Chambord,
was the posthumous son of a murdered father?
that Marshals of France with barbarous indelicacy
swarmed Into his natal chamber to bear witness to
his mother’s maternity? or that Louis, the eigh-
teenth of that name, moistened his lips with a few
drops of wine ? It is far more interesting to know
that when the shadow of death was falling on him,
he still clung to the belief that the Pope’s prayers
would preserve him some time longer from the
enemy's ur.pltying spear. But most instructive of
all is it to observe how impossible it is for a man of
mediocre mind to break away from the leading-
strings of his youth—to escape from the beliefs and
prejudices on which he was suckled. Like the
Stuarts, the Bourbons never learn and never
forget. ' Thi “Comte,” inasmuch as he never
learnt, was a true Bourbon. For forty years ho
saw visions, and dreamed dreams, never to be
realised. They all pointed to the throne of Prance;
and might have passed from the region of the
possitAe to that of the real, but for the traditional
obstinacy of his House as represented by him. Ho
never understood the import of the Revolution*
Every statesman and every reader recognised the
change that had come over France aud Europe
since the tatterdemalions of Paris stormed the
Bastille and swarmed under the windows of An-
toinette, demanding bread ; but he clung to the
white flag, and to the Papacy. He would be a
king by right divine, or not at all. He would teach
the fierce democracy of France that their fathers
were wrong in dancing the carmagnole round the
head of the Princess de Lambalue, and that they
were wrong in not voting for the “Right,” and
upholding the Concordat. All men whose lives
have marked epochs in the world’s history—the
Cromwells, Newtons, Napoleons, Darwins,
and others—saw the wei k points in the
scientific or military systems in which
they had been reared, and had the
courage to “ try back.” Such courage or under-
standing was utterly wanting in the Comte de
Chambord. The world around him was daily
becoming more democratic; great questions affect-
ing man’s happiness were forcing themselves to
the front, and would not be denied; in a thousand
ways science was “ bringing man nearer unto man,”
rubbing off national angularities, and preparing the
way for an “ age of reason;” but still he dreamed
on—dreamed of the fleur-de-lys, of high-born ladies
in lappets and long satin tails, of obsequious cour-
tiers and devoted peasants, of nuns and monks and
nunneries. How slowly the time approaches—the
time longed for by sago, poet, and philosopher
gone by—when a man’s value will depend on him-
self alone, and gain no augmentation from real or
putative progenitors.
John Chinaman.
There aro Chinese in Victoria. They live as
Chinamen only can live— raising cabbages, gather-
ing rags, peddling nick-knacks, fossicking de-
serted diggings, swearing to lies, and cheating one
another. Some of the more ambitious put on an
occasional spurt, and “ scoop” a hen-roost or a
clothes-line. Of late, the advanced ones have
raised themselves and their nation in public esti-
mation by turning insolvent, with large liabilities
and no assets. In one instance, indeed—but this
happened in New Zealand—a representative of the
almond-eyed cleared at a bound the barrier sepa-
rating occidental from oriental civilization by ap-
pearing as co-respondent in a divorce suit. But it
is not with Chinese in the aggregate we have now
to deal. Our business is with two heathens ivho,
taking a walk south of the Murray, saw a bridge,
and dawdled across it into New South Wales. The
way was open, and there was nothing to warn
them to keep their own side of the stream. They
are now employed on a twelve months’ job at
pebble-fracturing, just to impress upon them that,
wherever the Union Jack flies, men are free to
come and go. Let us give one more illustration of
the superiority of Australian legislation. A
Victorian Chinese lost his way in the bush,
and crossed the Murray in his endeavours
to find it. The inevitable “bobby”—ever
present when a half-drowned Chinaman has to
be “ run in, ” ever absent when a larrikin is jump-
ing on his mother—was waiting for him, and,
having warned him to “button your undther lip,”
kept a firm grip of the hungry wretch till the
watchhouse was reached, when he was made com-
fortable for the night with a kick and a curse. He,
also, got twelve months for endeavouring to save
his life by crawling up the wrong side of the river.
. . . Some years ago, the Chinese authorities
concluded that the sale of opium was destroying
their people. The drug was imported in immense
quantities from India, and severe moralists, dainty
ladies, enterprising merchants, and high church-
men were battening on the cursed trade. Then
the Chinese Government said: “No more of this;
no more of the deadly drug that is emascu-
lating our nation.” Foolish Celestials! Will you
never understand European progress ? Will you
never learn that, when the necessity arises
for a million to rot in order that a score
may revel, why—the million must rot, and
there’s an end of it. So, great ships and big guns
and trained men were sent to bring this obstinate
people to reason. Now, a mud hovel swarming
with inmates always gets the worst of it when op-
posed to an eighty-four-pound shot. When a few
thousand Orientals had been knocked out of shape,
the ports were opened, high English officials were
carried in state to Interview the Emperor. They
told him how the hearts of the British Sovereign
and people were sound, and how repugnant to
them was war. Then the people at home drank to
the health of their brave soldiers and seamen,
ship-loads of missionaries were sent to China,
Europeans were permitted to land unmolested,
and—the opium trade was renewed. Rule Bri-
tannial We are ruled by the Bible, and the Bible
is, as everybody knows, the Secret of England’s
Greatness.
He Drinks!
We saw a man on Saturday night who
would be an ornament to any gallows. It was in
the bar-room of a George-street hotel. He was
the centre of a group of red-nosed sots, who were
—judging by the admiring ejaculations with which
they received a story he was telling—drinking at
his expense. And he did not seem to be a man who
could afford much roystering or revelry. He was
a storeman, or something of the sort; but what-
ever his business was, he was evidently popular
for his social qualities. He had just finished a song
as we came in, and was in the very full swing of
reckless drunkenness. Just then a woman came
to the door of the bar-room. She had on a faded
black bonnet and an old grey shawl, but her ap-
pearance was still decent. She called to this man,
who appeared to bo her husband. He turned
round, cursed her, and told her if she didn’t
go he would give her in charge of the police.
Then she left, and all the boon com-
panions laughed. A minute or two after,
the fine fellow staggered up to the door,
and, opening it, ordered his wife to come in.
She came in, and then he introduced her to the
crowd of greasy sots. The poor little woman sat
down patiently and waited till it should be her
husband’s pleasure to come home. Evidently it
was not his pleasure to do so in a hurry, so she had
to sit there under the gaze of every man in the
bar-room, and see her husband make a motley fool
of himself and an exhibition of her before the
crowd. This Is the reward which years of love
reap at the hands of a drunkard. At the other
door was another woman in a similar case. If any
young woman who reads this is keeping company
with a young man who drinks, she now knows
what fate is in store for her. Poison is more ex-
peditious.
Interesting event at Ashfield. Mr. Pope,
son of the Pitt-street merchant prince, married
to Miss Peate, daughter of the head of a George-
street house. Particulars next issue.
Would you find a nation’s place in civiliza-
tion ? Then examine their chairs. The highest
savages never get beyond a three-legged stool,
while the lowest are content to squat on the bend
of a boomerang or a knot in a sheoak log. We
have sat in chairs of all sorts, from the stocks to
Mrs. Macquarie’s, but for real comfort—the peace
that passeth all understanding—give us the flbre-
seated, supor-inviting article manufactured by
Nichols and Co., 83 Clarence-street.
Great genius generally lives next door to
madness. This was probably the reason that the
elder Dumas once worried up his Bible for a whole
week in order to discover whether the gifts and
vices of a father descended to his son. When the
old ’un was through, he summed upas follows:—
1. Roboam begat Abia: that is, a bad father begat
a bad son. 3. Abia begat Asa; that is, a bad father
a good son. 3. Asa begat Josaphat; that is, a good
father a good son;—and 4. Josaphat begat Joram;
that is, a good father a bad son. From hence I see
that my father’s piety cannot be entailed—that is
bad news tor me. But I see. also, that actual im-
piety is not always hereditary; that is good news
for my son.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“D.S.”: In the words of Person, your
poems will be read when Homer and Virgil are
forgotten, but not till then “ Aries ”: Received.
— “ Lake Macquarie ”: Glad to hear from you...
“Amateur”: Buy “The Principles of Training
for Amateur Athletes,” by Dr. H. L. Cortis....
“W.H.R.”; Will read and consider “Mum”
(Hillston): Of course we can’t use it. And if you
send that kind of thing to newspapers, no matter
how true your allegations may be, you’ll be having
a taste of Sir James Martin...“ H.T.” (East Melb.):
You’re not an artist in verse. Send us some para-
graphs — “Cracker”: Your prose is bad, your
verse worse—“Joseph Coll” (3 Abercrombie-
street): Protection is the policy of the United
States “Very muchly so”: Doggerel—we’re
sick of “Patience.” “E.S.”: Why call the over-
dressed underbrained snob a “masher,” when the
old term “idiot” contains one letter less?.. .
“Sam” (Goulburn): Some items rather late;
others used. Send again “Gian”: Will be con-
sidered “Sec. Young Progress Committee”:
Received — ,“E.S.W.”: We do think that the
term “godless,” instead of secular, as applied to
the Sydney Grammar School, was an indecent and
ungentlemanlike one. If the bulk of parsons in
this colony were cultured gentlemen, like Albert
Weigall, instead of being the boorish products of
fifth-rate theological seminaries ’twould be a good
thing all round “J.W.”: The dramatic papers
say so..“8.M.” (Cooktown): ThanksMerchant-
man and Subscriber ”: Next week “ Rag”: Cer-
tainly; jet black lines, no fiat shades, upon white..
“Socialist”: 1. Yes, it is difficult sometimes to tell
the difference between an aristocrat and a common
person. 3. The term “servant” may or may not
include bank servants, civil servants, lawyers, or
artists, engaged to do anything. If they work,
they are servants ; if they don’t do any work, of
course they are gentlemen. 3. We do not know
how many generations it requires to make de-
scendants of servants eligible for a high-toned
ball. 4. No, it does not matter how they made
their money ; but it matters a good deal how much
they made.
Will the author of the Dubbo brevities kindly
send his address.
Our biggest “masher.” —The train.
Kidney aud Urinary complaints of all
kinds permanently cured with Hop Bitters. Read".
The Speaker’s dinner in Melbourne on 37th
ult., while notable as an official event, was of
startling suggestiveness as to the denouements
which the whimsical whirligig of Fortune pro-
duces. Who could refuse to entertain “the larger
hope ” as he looked on the strange assortment of
drabbled characters now shining with all the splen-
dour of virtue that never received a smutch ?
From Lalor in his knee-breeches to Berry in his
tight uniform, did not a thought exude from the
table of feasting leading the spectator on to feel
that there is hope for even the people, in Pent-
ridge ?
It is a relief to gods and men that Victoria
is satisfied about its Public Service Bill. Indeed,
the patient reader of the Victorian press was sick
and tired of the endless refrain of the “Augean
stable.” The phrase may have sounded agreeably
at one time, but like the tune of “ Willie, we have
missed you,” or the air of “ Molly Darling,” it has
been hiirdy-o urdied to death. The Argus started
it in Melbourne, when the great “ J.S.” came back.
He had found that phrase, and a few others like it,
in Allington House, when he sipped sherry with
Lord Fuddledom, and he packed it up with his
change of linen, foreseeing that it would fit in well
in the columns of the Argus. But then the Age
cribbed it, and set its graphic man to worry it.
Then the country editors tackled it, and gnawed
away. Hercules was a Service once upon a time
in regard to that stable, but Service has been a
Hercules iu clearing it out of the newspaper
columns.
An Aboriginal Funeral
Passed through Gunnedah on Tuesday. Perhaps,
of all the melancholy sights, this is the most de-
pressing. The deceased was a Christian, and the
simple cortege was accompanied by the Rev. F.
English. The coffin was borne in an open cart, and
followed by the dusky friends of the departed
“ lord of the soil.” These friends, male and female,
were accompanied by the inevitable dogs—black-
fellows’ dogs—one of which, probably deceased’s,
walked, with that disconsolate and miserable air
which dogs so naturally take on such occasions,
beneath the bier of his master. Poor dog-poor
master!
O melancholy sight! O sight depressing!
A Christian funeral, that slowly jogs
Along to where all species is progressing.
A cart: beneath it, dogs;
Behind it, lubras; and beside, a pastor;
Before, a shallow-sunken pit
To shunt the carcass in. Poor dog-poor
master —
Poor editorial wit.
A Christian funeral! A life returning,
Tip-dray-borne, to where lives must all
return;
An ebon brand plucked timeously from
burning
Where all unplucked must burn.
A Christian funeral! No shorthand story
Of costly catafalque, and sombre state;
An end devoid of Christian glory
As is an empty plate.
A Christian, with no monument eternal
To tell his virtues, as an open book;
His pit had opened on the pit infernal,
But for the merest fluke.
Had he but held the way of his ancestors,
And raked opossums out of hollow logs,
He, too, had gone to (editors are jesters)
The “ inevitable dogs.”
But fairer fate than this the Lord hath
willed him;
The savage met the early pioneer,
Who gave him what, at first, half-killed him—
A billy full of beer.
But getting over it, the coy barbarian
About the Christian huts would ofttimes
come,
And grew to love, like any Trinitarian,
Tobacco, Beer, and Rum.
And slowly conquering his heathen passion
For grilling lizards, and exhuming grubs,
He learned to slouch, in genuine Christian
fashion,
About the doors of pubs.
And' here some Vineyard groper, fat and
gracious,
Found him (as melt have found the present
bard,
Half-mad), aud silenced him with Athan-
asius,
And won him to “ the Lard.”
A Christian funeral! Though they have
sunk him
Six feet below the ground, he will arise
(To think he will not is the wildest bunkum),
And dwell above the skies;
And though, down here, heplayed but second
fiddle, he
May play an equal harp solo on high
With Peter Campbell, Latimer, and Ridley.
0,1 say, let me die!


* R. Cortis, of Bathurst,
A P f ’ „ Jn a spiteful letter to the Austral-
ia 68 gazette, that The Bulletin is
M ED j-„„iation among the ignorant classes.
i&* f £athu8tolearn that Dr. Cortis is a sub-
thought the only things
JV- tended for circulation among the
ne Police Court reporting
3; °WUo Su™ The f? onlu8 who does
day, oik? to do the court tbo
Mb Court w 8 18 his business-like par.
at 30k transactions for the week To 4
Sjjjt*, at iOs : 1 habitual ditto, £8 ; 3
: 1 ditto on constable, £3 ;
®v1tCQVenT^° tall£15 ' Ce>mmitI
The larrikin is informed that the oat which
has nine lives has also nine tails.
The editor of a Sydney oomio (comic is the
wrong adjective) paper Is called “Punch’s Pilot.”
One unconsciously continues, in the words of
Butler’s “ Oat,” “ Roman Governor, at the desire
of the Jews.”
The British Lion may roar and blow, but
, our Kangaroo never runs away with his tail be-
tween his legs.
Some of our rural policemen at £1 10s.
a week have big shares in mines, fat banking ac-
counts, go in for high-class gambling ad lib., and
Senerally wind up by investing in a lucrative pub.
row, how do they manage it ?
A Noozb paper—A death warrant.
At Crocodile Creek. “Mrs. Blank, I’ve
brought you some papers to read.” Mrs. Blank:
“ I don’t read, but my old man does.” “ Good day,
Mr. Blank; I have brought you some papers to
read.” Mr. Blank: “ I don’t read, thank you; but
my old woman does.”
The Rev. J. L. Rentoul was a picture to
marvel at when a friend read for him that passage
in the polemical summing up, in which the decay-
ing influence of the clergy is sketched. “ Decay-
ing!” cried the learned divine; “decaying!” It
was the nearest approach to Voltaire’s “ Me a sun-
set! Me a sunset! that the friend had seen—only
the divine was not so scantily draped on the occa-
sion as was the philosopher.
The Anglicans of Sydney diocese have col-
lected the enormous sum of £356 in support of
agencies for providing religious instruction in the
Public Schools. This would seem to indicate either
that the said Anglicans don’t believe in the ne-
cessity of religious instruction being given in Pub-
lic Schools, or entertain the idea that the par-eons
shirk their work.
In Western Australia, the religious "bun*
struggle ” is followed by short addresses and long
dances. Evangelical preachers first held aloof*
but the disease had taken too firm a hold of the
community, and would not be exorcised. Like'
sensible men, they have accepted the Inevitable,
and now lead off the “Circassian Circle” with the
prettiest girls in the room. Even the clergy must
not be behind the times.
Jk Very Big Gun antfl a Very Small Shot.


REMEMBER THIS
IP YOU ARE
SICK
it you are sick, HOP BITtppc.
surely aid Nature in making va *>11
again when all else fails. J0U "’eli
If you are comparatively well a
the need of a grand tonic and
never rest easy till you are marto» ul “ nt >
being by the use of a new
HOP BITTERS
If you are costive ot dySnentu ,
suffering from ddy other
Oils dteCasbS of fhk StOmilMl BmP-
itHp BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all
plaints. u au such com.
If you are wasting awav win,
form of Kidney Disease, stop tom
Death this moment, and turn fwa^mf
HOP BITTERS,
If you are sick with that terrihu
ness, Nervousness, you will Vmi i un eli -
in Gilead ” in the use of Dda
MOP BtTTEliu,
system against the Scohrgfc Of
tries—mmamS, 'epidemic, bWoiA
termittent reverS-by th'e use
Hdp BITTERS.
awmeSt breath, health, and comfort^
In short, they cure ALL DiRfW.!'
the Stomach, Bowels, Blood 8 n 8 of
Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and ’ Llver '
£500
will be paid for a case they will not
or help, or for anything
rious found in the them.
That poor, bed-ridden, inval'd wit*
sister, mother or daughter, ehh hb h,L
the pmture of health by h few bottw
ttbt) flitters, costing but a trifle. of
Will you let them suffer?
Cleans e> Purify and inrich fk
fifodd With
Hop Hitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering ordn«.
tors’ bills to pay.
GRAHAM
TAILOR,
531
(ikokor St., Sydney,
Tailoring Establishment,
54d, lute Ail, George-street, Sydney.
Gknti.kimkn, 1 respectfully beg leave to brim
under your mtl ice the superior style arid fit of our
Trousers, which are Cut on the same unerrins
principles as those which have made the name o!
Hill, Bond-street, a household word amongst tV
leaders of fashion in the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful «>
pearance, perfect freedom either in sitting, rldiar
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor brae*
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain then
position in every attitude of the body.
They are designed to fit the corpulent as weli *
the slight figure, and are engaged to give to all the
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial will suffice to establish their eh»
on your patronage.
I am, Sir,
Your obedient Servant.
JOHN GRAHAM-
ent post free for Is. stamps to defraj postaP
“TRUTH,” .
A TREATISE showing the undeMun»« M.c-
A. of society that cause
riage ; Celibacy ; Woman ; Advice t u *> d
to Marry. Also, the Injury, n dPrc^
Tobacco and Alcohol; How to Regain
your Health ; &c. &c. Address
R. T. SELBY, M H.. y .
DEVONSHIRE ST., SURRY HILLS, 6>
MAL T BITTER}
THE GREAT CURE
BILIOUSNESS, C0MPLA1>
3s ttd-
PRICB.. • • ••
Prepared b r
SSold by W. H. SOUL, and all Chem
Few men under 30 can have realised the
humbug of life so deeply or under such varied
aspects as Mr. Thomas Walker. Why, we have
known men of 80 who had still a stained window in
a little corner of their hearts, and, if you crept in,
you would see a little altar and a little idol on it,
robed in the fancies of childhood, and a pan of
incense would be steaming before it, and the
superstitious old soul would be found kneeling
there when the outside world was silent. Thomas
has only turned 26, but he has got over all that.
His heart is as open as a fruit-stall. He has found
that there is nothing in life worth the expense of
stained glass, and that incense is ridiculous, and
that he (Thomas) would deserve to be branded as
a knave if he confessed to a desire to kneel down
in silence for a little minute. Some would like to
be as Thomas is, but they have grown too old and
they can’t. They must begin, like Thomas, when
very young. They will not reach the high table-
land of his purity, sincerity, and honesty unless
they shall have spent their youth in the priesthood
of humbug. Begin at 12 as an acolyte in the grand
ceremonies of the world’s mysteries—close your
eyes at 16, and become the python of secrets
revealed only to you, tell how the world rolls, and
assure man of the transcendentalisms of his sur-
roundings—then at 26 you can go to Melbourne, 01-
go anywhere, in fact, and it will be surprising if
you are not believed when you say that men are
gulls should they beliave in anything they cannot
see. You will puzzle the best logicians by point-
ing out the arrant and successful humbug that you
yourself have been. You’ll collar them there.
To avoid all mistakes, ask for Wolfe’s
Schnapps, and by continuous use of that cele-
brated cordial, secure yourself an extended lease
to life.
The Sydney bakers dbn’t See the error of
their weights. The intotmer who has been making
a living by dChOfincing the Melbourne light weights
is invited by us to Sydney. A fortune awaits him,
The scourings of Sandhurst worship at the
Salvationist’s idol—the respectables at that of
George Lansell. Both sections will probably find
their senses by-and-bye, as the woman finds hers
when, in the loud-voiced, vinous-breathed hus-
band, she tries to trace the lover of her youth.
Lansell’s Sandhurst career has been an eventful
one, A decent, hard-working, not-too-hlghly-
educated soap-boiler, he took to gold-mining, and
drove his pick through the lid of Pandoras box
nearly at the first stroke. What the first Spanish
voyagers to Mexico frittered away their lives in
seeking, this lucky speculator dropped upon at
once. He deserved it for his pluck ; but as his gold
increased, an epidemic of the least lovely traits in
our nature attacked his Worshippers. It was the
old worship of “success” finder Its mfiat vulgar
form. It was a race betwteeh the growth of his
bank balance and his admirers’ adulation. That
his head was not tfirn'ed is no fault of theirs, but
entirely due to the sub-stratum of sound common
sense in his possession. Then it was that he made
money easily, and (it must be allowed) spent it
freely. His yearly gift of £1000 to the hospital
helped along that chronically hard-up institution.
But troubles arose. With the perverseness of ig-
norance, the Sandhurst miners objected to have
their wages reduced. These stupid people thought
they could live better on 45s. than on 40s. a week.
Then questions of encroachment arose, when it
was freely said that right and impecuniosity were
struggling against wrong and wealth. So a long
tour on the “ Continong ” supervened, the hospital
was forgotten, and the column of incense de-
creased to a scarcely perceptible Jet. Now it is
bigger than ever, as gold has been Struck at 1700
feet in one of his claims. As the “old guard”
hauled down the white rag And ran tip the tri-
colour when they heard the well-rememben d
Voice of the little Corporal after his Elba picnic, so
when gold was struck in the 180 claim, all the
toadies, the lick-spittles, the waiters on Provi-
dence, and “pickers up of unconsidered trifles ” in
Bendigo suddenly remembered Lanseli’s birthday
was nearing, and met to celebrate it with a lively
hope of “favours to come.” MorbleuI If the
, toad “ adversity,” with its jewelled head, were
to come across George Lansell, how many of
those wkc pledged him in bumpers, and be-
slavtereia him with fulsomeness, would give him
A pair of pants and a meal ?
Economising time: A lecturer inquired,
•‘What use can a man make of his time while
waiting for a doctor?” Before he could answer
his own inquiry, some one cried out, “He can
make his will.”
The way Melbourne reporters hunt up
items is a caution. They run half a mile along the
street to head a buggy in which they hear a conva-
lescent leading citizen is having an airing, and from
the way the paragraph afterwards appears you
would believe they had been in the buggy all the
time. “ Our representative,” is nearly as played
out as the Australian bush missionary.
Oscar Wilde recently said, in a lecture to
art students, that nothing in art or nature was so
ugly as not to be sometimes beautiful. A police-
man, he said, with cape and helmet and multi-
plicity of buttons, was not, under ordinary circum-
stances, a thing of beauty or a joy for ever, but he
saw one in a mist on the Thames Embankment, Jit
up with dusky light, so Michael Angelesque In
appearance, that a painter might have sought a
better subject a long time before he found it. We
agree with Oscar up to a certain point, but feel
bound to draw the line at the Post Office carvings
in art, and the face in nature of a certain aristo-
cratic M.L.C., objects possessed of a perfect and
i inalienable ugliness.
A SONG OF LAKE MACQUARIE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ye who find a honeyed sweetness,
Find a large harmonious glory
In the bullock-bells and shovels,
In the flap of kerosene-cans,
In the riot of tin-kettles,
When some rustic youth and maiden,
Living somewhere in the country,
Out among the guileless “cookies,”
Loving long in timid silence,
Have at last plucked up their courage,
Passed the terrible ordeal,
Took and been and gone and done itr—
Ye whose souls are open-gated
To the keen reverberations,
To the measured strong complainings
Of the saw that stirs and wobbles
When it feels the angry pressure
Of the ruthless file upon it —
Ye who love the shining splendour
Of the verses “ Pyn ” contributes
To the pages of the Corpse Light—
Ye who, in your utmost bosoms,
Cherish hymns of recollection,
Words of tender, fond remembrance
Of belovid ones departed;
•Strains of woe that are inserted,
At so much per inch inser ted,
In the Evening Alfred’s columns—
Ye who nurse in the recesses
Of your souls, as chiefest jewels,
All the high strange dreams of Sladen,
All the mystic, weird creations
Of the bard of Parramatta—
Ye who read with eyes that widen,
Eyes that marvel, as at spectres,
The most toothacheful effusions,
The immortal advertisements
Done in verse by Leo Plania —
Read this epic of a Picnic,
Read the epitaph here graven
On the tomb of a Bonanza;
Read this very queer disclosure,
Read this Song of Lake Macquarie.
By the shores of Lake Macquarie,
Of the estuary shining
With the August sun upon it,
With the cloudless sky above it.
With the fruitful lands around it,
With the newly-risen springtime
Stealing softly through the valleys,
Shedding verdure on the mountains,
Bearing balms of gum and wattle,
Bearing breaths of rose and orange—
Sat the Chieftains in their lodges,
Sat the Parties in Possession,
Sat the Knowing Ones, the Owners.
Very angry were the Owners,
They, the Wide-awakes, the Fly Coves ;
Very wrathful their demeanour
As they spoke of their distresses,
Of their injuries and losses,
Of the insults put upon them!
“ Lo!” they said, “ our lands are useless,
All our properties avail not,
All the wealth of our possessions
Lies at waste and cannot serve us;
’Twas in vain this land we spotted,
’Twaa in vain we twigged its value;
All in vain that we secured it,
Pegged it out before the others,
Put our pegs in and secured it
When the others knew not of it,
When the others were not ‘ in it.’
“ Here is wealth, but undeveloped,
Countless wealth that no one dreams of,
Millions upon millions waiting.
Sleeping underneath the surface,
Shut away from busy seekers
By this bar that separates us,
By this bar that holds us widowed
From the paths and ways of progress,
From the keels and sails of commerce.
“ Let us not sit thus repining;
Let us play our cards with cunning,
With the craft that looks but candour
To the dull eyes of the people.
Let us lay our heads together,
Lay our level heads together,
And procure, by skilful juggling,
All we need to make things rosy—
Let us get the Press reporters,
All the hungriest reporters,
Round our dainty-laden tables;
Let them feed upon our bounty,
Let them drink our fieriest liquors,
Let them fatten from our larder,
Let our meat and pickles suffer.
That our aims may be accomplished,
That our Dodge may be triumphant.”
So the Knowing Ones, the Fly Coves,
They, the Parties in Possession,
They, the Wide-awakes, the Owners,
Took the Pressmen by the right hand,
Took the hollow-cheeked Reporters
By the right hand, as in friendship.
Treated them almost as equals,
Sailed upon the waters with them,
At the table sat beside them,
Sat amazed, and did the carving,
Helped them once again to sirloin,
Passed the turkey once more to them,
Sent the whisky round by pailfuls!
Two whole days upon the bosom
Of the estuary shining,
Of the placid Lake Macquarie,
Sailed the Pressmen, the Reporters;
And the Wide-awakes, the Owners,
Showed them all their lordly acres,
Showed them coal-seams undeveloped,
Lying there unworked, unheeded,
Wanting but the public money.
Then they wended homeward, sighing
That such times could not be always:
Wended homeward to their wigwams
In the close and sickly city,
And from out their musty attics
Sent forth sheet on sheet of copy,
Lauding loud their entertainers,
Lauding long their splendid prospects :
Saying that it was outrageous,
Most unseemly and digraceful
That their claims should be neglected,
That their ease should not be seen to.
Then The Bulletin, the Watchdog,
He, the ruthless Flagellator,
He, the sentry of the people,
Ever wakeful, ever watchful,
Took in hand the little Picnic—
Turned his bull’s-eye fair upon it,
Shed a South Head light upon it—
Spoke in language undiluted
Of the way the thing was managed;
Told the public to be guarded,
Not to trust too far the Owners,
They, the Parties in Possession,
They, the very Wide-awake Ones—
Not to let themselves be got at,
Not to make a blooming error.
So exploded the rejoicings,
So the mighty Picnic ended;
And the movers and promoters
Of that most capacious revel
Found their little game was spotted;
Found that they were simply euchred,
MR. CHARLES ALFRED CHESNEY, C.E., J.P.
Very badly had and euchred;
Found their prospects of securing
Something like a pot of money
At the public cost and outlay
Gone for ever, with their viands,
With their turkeys and their liquor,
To the land of Coonanbara,
To the mystic land of Limbo,
To the land of the Hereafter!
SHORTFELLOW.
The Keenest Eye.
Keen is the eye of the hawk,
Keen the eye of the lynx.
Keen the eye of the danseme
As at the box she winks.
Keen is the eye of the Judge,
And keen the bobby’s orb
Watching the pub. on Sunday
And those who there absorb.
Keen is the eye of the man
Who guards the “circle ” door
When the rustic scribe presents
His little “ pass for four.”
Keen is the parson’s eye—
You only see the white;
But he knows what’s in the plate
By a kind of second sight.
But keener will be the eye
Of this scribe —a child of sin—
Looking at next week's issue
To see if this is in.


A GBEAT MONTH,
THE MONTH OF SEPTEMBER,
at
THE ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE.
Last week we published the Index or Contents
of our new book, “A Bulletin or Manifesto,” in
this column. We now give the Introduction, and,
as promised, the £25 house list. This will be fol-
lowed, next week, by “ The Object of the Publi-
cation,” and the £35 list.
INTRODUCTION.
When we take a hand at whist how often it is
we find under a bad turn-up a good hand. So it is
when we take up a comic or serio-comic paper, we
find something useful, something coinciding with
our own ideas, something by which we may profit,
and something to learn, which. If we are not Im-
mediately in a position to benefit by, will at least
be acceptable to our friends, and may also be use-
ful to ourselves atsome future time. Now, this is
not a comic paper, although the cover may suggest
the idea. We all know how difficult it is in the
present day to bring out a publication bearing,
even in a small degree, the character of an adver-
tisement which will prove acceptable to the public.
In this we have done our best—we have striven in
a manner to make it peculiar, so as to bo perfectly
distinct, separate, and, if we may say it, above the
general run of business-propagating publications.
But under its peculiarity there lies usefulness, a
usefulness to be found by every reader, and as the
man of peculiarities is often found to be a staunch
friend to those who are fortunate enough to
possess his friendship, so this book, peculiar in
character, will be found to be a fnend to every
reader, inasmuch that it imparts Information
valuable, at least in some degree, to everybody.
REDUCED PRICES, and REVISED HOUSE
FURNISHING LISTS.
“ A BULLETIN OR MANIFESTO,”
The Furniture Column.
Houses Furnished for £15
Houses Furnished for £35
Houses Furnished for £35
Houses Furnished for £50
Houses Furnished for £70
Houses Furnished fo £100
Houses Furnished for £300
Houses Furnished for £300
or
for any other amount required.
SINGLE ARTICLES AT THE REDUCED
PRICES.
LIST No. 2.
For the sum of £25 prompt net cash,
You can Furnish a House as follows:
PARLOUR.
Large cbeffonier safe
Dining table, 4x3
Upholstered couch
Six cane-seated chairs
Cornice pole with rings
Table cover
Lamp
Clock
Pair vases ...
Fender and irons...
Hearthrug
Matting for room...
BEDROOM, No. 1.
Four-post bedstead, 4ft. fiin
Pair palliasses
Mattress
Bolster
Two pillows
Chest of drawers
Washstand and set
Carpet seat folding chair
Toilet table
Toilet glass
C. S. chair
Matting
BEDROOM, No. 2.
Single bedstead
Pair palliasses
Mattress
Bolster and pillow
Toilet table
Glass
Washstand and set ... ,
Chair
Matting slip
KITCHEN.
Pine table
Pine safe
Two chairs
Six plates
Six plates
Meat dishes, Is 9d and 3s 3d
Pair vegetable dishes ...
Six cups and saucers ...
Sugar basin
Milk jug
Butter dish
Pair salt cellars
Set of 3 jugs
Six cut tumblers
Six cut wines
Six knives and forks ...
Two table spoons
Six tea spoons
Kettle
Boiler
Saucepans, Is fid, 2s fid, 3s fid
Frying-pan
Grid-iron ...
Teapot
ajfijtotoddy
Coffee-pot
Tin dish
Tubs, 4s and 5s
Bucket
Dipper
Colander
Bread crock
Meat stand
Baking dishes, 8d and lOd
Rolling pin ..
Pair glass candlesticks...
Pepper caster
Set of skewers
Nutmeg grater
Kitchen spoon
Pair flat-irons
Hair-broom...
Wash board...
Scrub brush
Set shoe brushes
Pair bellows
Hand brush...
Dust pan
Knife board and polish...
Clothes line and pegs ...
Ask for it, send for it, or write for it,
“A BULLETIN OR MANIFESTO,”
POST FREE EVERYWHERE,
Campbell Brothers,
Royal Furnishing Arcade,
420 6110RC1E STREET, SYDNEY.
NEXT THE ROYAL HOTEL.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The richest parson in Australia is a Sydney
man. He married a lady with £80,000.
The English Churchman expresses a hope
thnf the new Duke of Marlborough “will return
tn a worthier imitation of the virtuous example of
hta deuarted and respected father ’’—which we of
avdnev read as equivalent to wishing that he’ll
leave off various things and take to drink.
We opine that the Echo’s olumsy Table-
+aikist has let in that journal for a heavy libel
nefion at the suit of Mudgee Taylor. To say that
n man has missed all the lessons which go to the
Jvvrmfltion of honourable and gentlemanly char-
acter and will be naked for the lack of them till
the end of his days, is to invite either an action at
law or a cowhiding.
Theological Melbourne is settling down
asrain after the Higinbotham tempest. It is well
tiio iudge shaves clean. Otherwise the parsons
have pulled the chin off him within the first
week It is strange that almost all iconoclasts
have clean-shaven chins. Wasn’t it Selim, long
' o who plied the razor so that the clergy would
Save nothing to lead him by ?
The other day a newly-arrived guest at an
Australian hotel went by mistake into the wrong
room and found his neighbour, a squatter, who is
worth more than a million—we decline to say how
much moi e—at work. The rich man was washing
ancks in the hand-basin. Creesus, who hurriedly
explained that he “ didn’t like to give trouble/’
must be getting modest. Not long ago he wouldn’t
have considered it necessary to explain at all.
Thus the Namoi Independent “ Mr. R.
Polonna-Close, the well-known Barrister, will be
present on retainer at the Gunnedah Sessions this
week We can promise his audience a treat The
learned gentleman should be invited to lecture on
behalf of the audience during his stay.” The In-
dependent, we observe, prints Mr. Close’s name
in black letters and spells “barrister” with a big B.
nut who authorised the Namoi Independent to
promise “a treat” to the audience of Mr. R.
Colonna-Close, the descendant of the Frangi-
panis ?
Clemenceau, the politician, is also a medi-
cal doctor of a philanthropic mind, and he gives
free advice to numbers. But, to save time, the
free patients are required to present themselves
stripped, as before an army board. One day, a
strapping voung fellow came, and seeing nothing
wrong, Clemenceau asked him his ailment. “ Oh, I
have no ailment. I want your influence to get me
a situation as postman/’ In amazement, the
politician inquired “ But why the devil have you
come naked?” “Because,” said the applicant,
who had accidentally got among the patients, “ I
saw all the others taking their clothes off 1”
Cora Pearl, once the most celebrated of
demi-mondaines in France, whose life was a
sumptuous whirlpool of extravagance, power and
orodl/ality (the counterpart, indeed, of Ouida’s
Cora Pearl), nas come to the front again. But this
time as a pauper, sued for debt. It was for bed-
linen bought long ago, one sheet alone priced at
over £50, and most of the bill had been paid, but the
broken down Aspasia could not rub out the small
balance. Then it was that a man, who once gave
Paris a nine days’ sensation by endeavouring
suicide because the great beauty threw him off,
he ird of her distress. He sought her out, told his
name— that of one of the leading restaurateurs of
Paris— and offered her. in memory of his undying
attachment—yes, he offered herabilletof waitress.
Sheer cynicism could go no further.
Charles Bright, in his “ open letter to the
Bishop of Newcastle,” makes one or two hits. The
most scorching passage is“ Some people say that
vour lordship is brave to venture at all into the
rough arena of discussion. I should think more
highly of your lordship if you really entered that
arena—if you debated with an antagonist on fair
terms on the platform or in the Press. But I can-
not entertain a high opinion of the courage of one
who fights behind the safe rampart of a newspaper,
which publishes everything he pleases to write,
and declines to Insert an outspoken reply, save as
an advertisement; who even, while thus shielded,
masquerades under an alias when he is desirous of
being specially malicious, and only comes forth in
his true character when there is a pleasing task to
be executed, or popularity to be gained. For such
a one I have rather contempt than respect.”
It seems that men who govern nations are
peculiarly unfortunate in their own families. The
last hard case is that of ex-president Grant’s
daughter in America—sweet, little, demure Nellie
Grant, who was liked by everyone. But the
nicest girls always get gone on, and snapped up
bv some worthless scamp. We’ve known some
nice girls in our time ; and our only satisfaction is
to know that they are sorry they crushed us, now.
Nellie couldn’t see anything in America to meet
her wayward fancy, though she could have had a
swarm'at her feet by giving a, sign. But no ; she
gave up to Algernon Sartoris, an English dude
with a tennis-ball head. We suppose he had the
usual long silken moustache and fathomless eyes,
and said “aw.” But he hadn’t anything else, and
now he has left the daughter of grizzled old
Ulysses, and is doing the Gebhardt business with
Mrs. Bush, the lovely young wife of an old dotard.
And the scandal-mongers are rolling a sweet mor-
sel under their tongues.
That gushing young dame “Stella,” who
does the Paris correspondence in the Herald,
considers that the publication, in Le Figaro, of
King Alfonso’s telegra ■ s to his mother-in-1 w
absolves that merry Monarch from all charges of
giddiness. This one, for instance, appears to
deeply affect her “ Thanks, dear mama, for the
good news yen send me. Thou hast now in thy
possession what I love best in the world, and thou
art adored by Alfonso.” We don’t know what this
proves, except perhaps, either that Stella is
really innocent of the ways of Royalty, or that
she pretends to be. This fact however remains :—
Christa has cleared out to her ma, and the King
doesn’t seem a bit inclined to fetch her home
again He has probably heard of the big dog in
the yard, and prefers to take his connubial bliss at
a distance. We have known the time when we
ourselves have been in the same case. It was
after being called away on “ important business”
and re-appearing a few days later with a bilious
eye and an expression of general penitence. On
those occasions our “marital relations were
“strained,” and not unfrequently a limb was.
“Stella” is an interesting writer, but her sym-
pathies are somewhat too violently expressed.
The present King of Spain, about whom
“ Stella” of the S. M. Herald, has been telling us
such naughty stories, is just as gay and as gallant
as his kind generally are; and it s well known that
his amorous majesty has the usual kingly weak-
ness for varying the monotony of his prayers by
amorous indulgences. But to do him justice, he is
not sly and with all that charming candour that
prompts King Philip (in “ Manteaux’) to say, “ tell
me if I’m going too far,” he makes no secret of it.
His street amours might adorn the pages of Boc-
caccio; that is, supposing they are not even de-
rived from them. A gipsy beauty, whom he lately
pressed his attentions upon, nearly ended his
regally rakish career with a stiletto. Sad to say,
his inclinations are apt to disdain the beauties of
the court, and gravitate, like those of most young
men, toward vulgar celebrities. It is true that
one young duchess suffers the somewhat envied
taint of his distinguished preference; but the
ladies who dance for him after his little supper in
the palace, and those whom he visits incognito,
attended by two of his faithful chamberlains, are
of a co mmon class —circus-riders, singers, and half-
bred gitana girls. This annoys the Queen very
much” She is proud; it’s not so much the morals
of her royal husband she quarrels with, as the in-
different quality of her rivals.
There hare been greater lawyers than
Judah P. Benjamin, and richer ones, but no law-
yer’s career, we think, was ever so remarkable.
When penniless, at the age of 50, he commenced to
fight his way among strangers in great cruel
London: fifteen years afterwards he retired with
a fortune while earning £20,000 a year—retired
covered with honours, and with the glory of a
success the most phenomenal in his profession.
The little Semitic lawyer first practised in America,
at New Orleans, then became a member of the
TT.8. Senate; at the breaking- out of the Civil War,
he became Attorney-General, and Secretary of War
of the Confederate States; and at the end of the
struggle, found himself ruined in pocket, and fled
to London. He commenced writing for the Press,
but soon began practising at the bar, and at once
rose year by year, in wonderful strides to the lead-
ing position in his profession. In 1876, he was forced
by pressure of business to refuse all cases except
those coming before the House of Lords. And In
1880, on his door were the words: “ Mr. Benjamin
desires to notify his clients that hereafter no re-
tainer less than 100 guineas can be accepted in
any case.” But Nature places a limit to the great-
est powers of man, and at 72, after a life of toil for
sixty years, Judah Benjamin retires in the zenith
of his fame—strictly enjoined by doctors to avoid
all study, excitement, public scenes and places,
and to live in fact the life of a recluse, as the only
insurance against death at any instant from disease
of the heart.
So General Booth is billed “ shortly to
arrive,” and we may safely count upon the city
being in a lively condition during his visit. The
General is to be accompanied by Mrs. General
Booth, and Mr. Bramwell Booth, who appears to
be the “Ancient” of the General. From the spe-
cimen we have had of the General’s followers in
this city, and of the tactics by which they manage
somehow to keep the ball roiling, we can form a
pretty good idea of what General Booth will be
like. It has now leaked out that no inconsiderable
portion of the revenue of the Army is derived
from the sale to the “ soldiers ” of goods and wear-
ing apparel at prices which “ defy competition ” —
for “st.flness,” and we have no doubt that the
General, in his capacity of holy hawker, will find
himself liberally patronised. There will be an
immediate demand for his tin stars, which he
retails at a shilling, and which cost something
under a farthing; and those celebrated poke
bonnets, which the hallelujah lasses are permitted
to purchase for seven-and-sixpence, and which
can be obtained by Mr. Booth tor a trifle under
eighteenpence apiece, will go off with exceeding
briskness. It is curious how ranting religion and
rubbishing regalia are so closely associated, and it
is invariably to be noticed that a man who is high
up in the particular order happens to sell it. ’Tis
so with the tinsel of Temperance and the mustard-
plasters of Orangeism. And it is especially so
with the Salvationists. General Booth, however,
does things on a scale which, if it does not entitle
him to admiration, should at least secure for him
respect. He is about the biggest huckster we have
ever heard of.
“Thy sins shall find thee out” was never
more fully illustrated than in the ease of Mrs.
Carter, once called Mrs. Hooper, and now sorry
that she ever squandered away the name of her
childhood. She stands self-confessed as a woman
who took irregular ways to the shrine of happi-
ness, at the door of which she was caught, just as
she saw the lights within, and was thrust back with
contumely and disgrace into the outer darkness.
She has torn all veils asunder, and has shown the
world her heart, has pointed out the devious turn-
ings ®f her career, and to earn shelter from the
index fingers of the cruel inquisitive throng, has
made public confession of her sins, begging only,
as payment in full for all her voluntary outpour-
ings, to be let alone and suffered to lapse into
nameless obscurity; or, as she one time cried, to
be punished in full with heavy interest added for
all the breaches of law she had committed, but to
be saved from the pillory of the witness-box and
the dock, where staring eyes rain down their
curiosity on her, and the merry and mercdess
mouths twitch with the entertainment provided
by her agony. Every man in Melbourne knows
the extent to which she has broken the law of the
land ; false registration of her own and her chil-
dren’s names is the full charge against her, but the
public being seized of the fact that there are dark
places in her heart, like to stare at her in dock and
witness-box, and from dock to witness-box she is
hurried and harried, and th» loons in the galleries
(and there are loons also at Bar and Bench) like to
observe her confusion when over and over again ,
week after week, month after month, the same old
irrelevant pruriencies are thrust in her face, and
she has for the hundredth time to explain them in
full! Bah, wigged loons!
The very latest contribution to philoso-
phical literature is the information that Herbert
Spencer's breakfast consists, invariably, of dry
toast and sardines. is very consistent, even in
eating, is Herbert. Tor instance, it is said he takes
a pair of compasses and sees that the family circle
is mathematically correct before he sits down to
dine. The table is circular, and not one mouthful
of curried chicken goes into a mouth before he has
personally ascertained that a line drawn from the
centre to the circumference shall equal half the
diameter. He will not permit anything in the
shape of an ellipse, and one of his most startling
objurgations arose from finding one of his boys—
named Tom, plunging his knife into the salt-cellar
before his father was well through with his first
sardine. Tom explained that hunger had driven
him to this haste, and it required all the ingenuity
of that youth to explain away his unseemly haste.
Herbert is reported to have laid down the leg of a
fowl and called for silence. He then said that ‘‘along
with the differentiation of sociological eating, went
a concurrent amelioration of the Implements of
mastication. The natives of Yucatan ate with
their toes, but as the Aztec civilization
spread, the superb and gorgeous cutlery of the
followers of Cortez superseded the Hint of the
ancients; and, while the groaning tables of Monte-
zuma wore garnished with vases of fuschia and
shining golden knives, the houses of the lower
classes of Mexicans abandoned the use of the
finger and thumb, and in all dealings with a salt-
cellar plunged in a flint-knife that had already
seen more of the interior of a Mexican mouth than
Pastor Allen sees of his own soul.” This diatribe
had its effect on the family. The 75 sons now bring
a pinch of salt in their waistcoat pockets, and the
five daughters, more amenable to reason, dip in
an ivory spoon, the handle of which is inlaid with
gold. So the old philosopher is again calm, and, at
70, working away at the Principles of Morality
with all his old vigour. This news is especially
welcome, as, according to Mr. Spencer’s own show-
ing, he has never married and never intends to.
* * *
A strange coincidence. The late Mr. N-
Paget Bayly, was a fellow-passenger to England,
with Archbishop Vaughan. They parted in
America, Mr. Bayly going to Liverpool, where he
died suddenly. The Archbishop also died suddenly
on reaching Liverpool.. .Mr. Smith, the informer,
and his wife, are en route to Suez, per French mall
steamer Melbourne, under the name of Mons. and
Madame Michael Flynn. Mr. Smith Is drinking 1
like mad George Robert Nichols II. has been ad-
mitted an attorney. If he secures a quarter as
good a practice as G. R, N. the first, he'll do. By
the bye, G. R. Nichols I. had the exclusive privi-
lege of practising in the superior as well as the
Inferior courts of N.S.W A stained glass win-
dow was fixed last week in St. Saviour’s (C.E.)
Cathedral, Goulburn, as a memorial to the late
Dean Sowerby, than whom a heartier old fellow
never took off a bumper of port Lacy ap-
parently considers that Bright’s leaving out an in-
definite article is a reason mighty strong and
effectual for charging him with monstrous im-
morality. Lacy’s an article now of the most in-
definite character, that the Liberal Association
might well leave out without any qualms of con-
science Thomas Truskett, an old identity of the
Dubbo district, joined the majority at the more
than ripe age or 106. He is said to have been a
resident on and about the Giralbone River for the
last 65 years, and “the oldest inhabitant.”—
Burjed from Melbourne Benevolent Asylum, John
Devereux, aged seventy-three, native of London,
and a famous violin maker. The Duke of Edin-
burgh, George Weston, Curtis, Jager, Zeplin, Riley,
Lilley, Weideman, Peters, and others, all use in-
struments made by the poor old fellow.
♦ * *
The oldest woman in the world is claimed
to be Mary Bentoe, of Eton, Eng., who is in her 148th
year, and is as active as ever.. .The widow of John
Brown, whose soul is marching on, secures a scanty
subsistence on a lonely farm on the crest of a
California mountain from a small crop of prunes,
which she is able to raise yearly—As Skobeloff
left no will, his large fortune, consisting of more
than two millions of roubles, goes to his sisters and
other relations, who, having appropriated the
fortune, have not even consented to pay for the
education of a little Asiatic orphan girl saved at
Geok-Teppe and adopted by the General. Another
child, taken by Skobeloff from Bulgaria, has been
sent back to its country, some charitable people
having paid for the journey Queen Ranavalo
II. of Madagascar, dead as herrings that are red.
She was the cousin of her predecessor Rasoherlna,
who was raised to the throne after the assassina-
ion of Radama II. and his Ministers in 1863.
LOUIS PHILIPPE II., THE NEW ORLEANIST PRETENDER TO THE FRENCH THRONE.


VICTO RIA HALL
BotruKE Street, Melbourne.
Lessee .. •• Mr. P. E. Hiscocka.
The most Elegant, Faslnonable, ai
Place of Amusement In Australia, w
for any first-class entertainments. The
to Rent or otherwise. Apply
WM. MARSHALL,
Lorgnette Office, Melbourne,
Pgpul®
ell adapted
Lessee open
THOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR OP THE
ZULU W AR.
Theatre Royal, Rockhampton, July 9th to Slat.
Bundaberg, Maryborough, and Gymme.
Brisbane to follow, 9th September, with
NEW DIORAMA
OF
EGYPTIAN WAR1
W. H. THOMPSON, Proprietor.
SYL, RYAN, Agent.
1
T
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
iO LET from 5th November next. Terms on
application to Thos. Setright, care of
vy and Co., 339 George-street. Sydney ; or the
idersigned,
JAMES B. HICK1E,
Brisbane.
M
A S O N I C BALL
"The LODGE of ST. ANDREW, No. 35ft,
SCOTCH CONSTITUTION,
tsr*st fSSTiSSS
Compagnoni will cater.
Tickets—35s, 17s 6d, and 10s.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 29th August, 1883.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.— tenders are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For.full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
to kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken Into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Dates to which
Tenders canbe
received a t
this office.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Erection of Look-up, Bowral.
Construction of Wharf at Kin-
chela Creek, Macleay River.
Construction of Wharf at Neu-
Gonstruotion of Wharf, Pelican
Erection Boom,
Grafton Wharf. _
Additions, &c., Custom House,
Bridge over Burrowa River, at
Coffey's Crossing.
Bridge over Falbrook Creek,
road Singleton to Goorangoola.
Bridge over Leicester Creek, at
BrocSon*of Station Buildings.
&c., Guyra. Great Northern
RftilwftVt
Supply of Sleepers, Railway De-
partment.
Hth September
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Custom House,
Wentworth.
Alterations, &o., Boat Harbour,
Fort Macquarie.
Erection of Police Stables, &c.,
Armidale. , _ ,
Additions, &c.. General Post
Office. _ ....
Erection of Station Buildings,
&c„ St. Peters, Illawarra Rail-
way Line. „ ,,
Bridge over Overflow, Mac-
quarie Rivulet, road Albion
Park to Wollongong.
Erection of new Passenger sta-
tion, Springwood.
Additions, &c., Lunatic Asylum,
Parramatta.
Additions, - &e]7"Post and Tele-
graph Office, Wentworth.
Bridge over Hall’s Creek, road
Narrabrito Moree.
Bridge over Tycannah Creek,
road Narrabrl to Moree.
Bridge over Albion Creek, road
Tinonee to Red bank.
18th September,
at 11 o’clock.
3Sth September
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of Line of Railway
from Cootamundra to Gun-
dagai.
Advertising in Tramcars.
Construction of Works, 3rd Sec-
tion Hlawarra Railway.
2nd October,
at 11 o’clock.
30th October,
at 11 o’ dock.
A. WHISHT.
Department of Lands,
Sydney, 31st August, 188*
LAND SALE.
ATTENTION is called to a Sale Of OrewiJ
Lands, to be held at the Land Offi f,
Parramatta, on the 26th September, .
comprising lands, in County oi Cumheila
Parish of Field of Mars.
Town Lots.
At the town of North Parramatta, frontaag
Grose, Fennel, Harold, and Albert streets,
Buller and M‘Arthur streets.
For further particulars see Gazette
August, 1883, No, 351, at Police Office or local La
Office.
J. S. PARNELL.
CRBSSWELL’S CHOICE SEEDS.
ON receipt of £1. the following
NEW GARDEN SEEDS will be fonvw£ th
Free by return of post to any part ot New
Wales M
1 ounce Beet (blood red), 1 do. ® £fcb-
German Greens, 1 do. Brooch, 3
bage (early and late), 3 do. Carrot (“ v Q r eis
1 ounce Celery, 1 do. Cauliflower, 1 do.
(curled), 1 do. Mustard (flue white). I
Lettuce, 1 do. Parsnip, 1 do. Parsley v d0<
curled), 3 ounces Onions J viridM’i d0 .
Vegetable Marrow. jg
One half of above collection, 10s, post n,
packets of choice assorted Flower Seeds, #
for orient sowing, will be presented with «aca
post collection of Garden Seeds.
Seeds, containing Peas and Beans, for trawu
coach, rail, or steamer, for small °*
& 10s, h. £3, and £3 3s each Payment* »
by money order or, stamps ,
C F CRESSWBLL, Seed and Plant Mere mm
' 47 \ George-street, Sydney.
The DKellsclole Bvig'g'les!
NO SECOND CHEAP HOUSE.
22 and 24 CLARENCE STREET, ONLY,
POU GOOD GOODS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS & WAGGONETTES,
BACKBOARD WAGGONS, AND EVERY STYLE OT BUGGY.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Clarence-street.
VIRTUTIS GLORIA MERGES.'
COALCLIFF COAL.
tiles the CHEAPEST, CLEANEST, and
I. NEWEST and J?S5 , |f&£’SSJS
£1 par Ton net, delivered within city bounds.
it well free from ash- makes a stronger.
'' smoky flare and soot of
a objectionable smoky flare and soot of
md cleanly as a
f some kinds of Engl d&ag“eable ofonr of the unwhoJo-
rrnvA fiimeR ffivtni off t)V A br86Z6 OT flrC*
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
Office: A. B. BLACK, 247 George Street.
DEPOT : WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
BROOKS SEWIMGJCOTTOMS
ie
Q
O
SSS
o
p
8
CC
&
&
(5
<5
•*Oe Mt"
BROOK'S SIX-CORD
SOFT COTTON
ON
NEW SHOULDER REEL
VERY CAREFULLY
HAND & MACHINE SEWING, I RFF1
White,Black& all Colours lit NEW SHOULDER REEL.
’Jth*
1 |BB$, BRIGHT & CO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
31 ping and Commission Agents,
tliwi ro.f yalpSiso
Principal Agenc : . „- wrB . nN(?
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OE CANTON-Head ou.ee ; HONGKONG.
Thos. Glover and Company, London-Patent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian and Sons—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penyrorsedd Slate Company (timited)— Bangor Slates
The Quicksilver San Erancisco Qu
Eels and Com—
Eels and Company, or uatras ana
Steel Fencing Wire, &c
Boiler Plates, Iron and
otooi r encing w uc, ,, « «
Thos. Perry and Son, Bilston —Fire-resisting Safes.
Drvbrough and Co., Edinburgh—Ale.
Brunton and Co., Redruth-Patent Safety Fuse.
Drybrough and Co., Edinburgh-
Brunton and Co., Redruth Pi
rrho« N Hunt —Fort Wine. ,, _
Dubos Fibres, Bordeaux —Clarets, Chablis, Sautemes
NEW SOOTH Wales. —Scott an? All?opff. SEy and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros..
J SituK Addison, H. Hlnoks.
rNDENTS^x^ute^<^n mt^f^om-ableterms^from^allporta of’ Consignments
p A I B T r theatre.
THIS (Thursday) EVENING, 8th SEPTEMBER.
GRAND SPECIAL COMMAND NIGHT.
Under the patronage, and in the presence of
HIS EXCELLENCY THE GOVERNOR. LADY
LOFT ITS, and SUITE, The H?n. ALEXANDER
STUART, Premier, and MINISTERS, &o. &o.,
when will be produced, for the last time positively,
THE WOMAN OP THE PEOPLE.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 8th,
for the first time in Sydney, a new version Of the
poetic story of
RIP VAN WINKLE !
HERR BAND MANN as RIP
(For the first time upon any stage).
No advance in prices.
O
PBRA HOUSE.
Lessee. W.J. Wilson. Sub-Lessee,A.T. Donning.
Lessee, w^ e T- B Applbby.
Treasurer, «T. P. Goldsworthy.
A GIGANTIC TRIUMPH I
BLUB BEARD I BLUE BEARD I
THIS EVENING,
KNIGHT ASTON In his celebrated character of
BLUEBEARD,
T. B. APPLEBY as KING BOBECHE,
T. H. RAINFORD facially engaged) as
and the
LONDON COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
GRAND BAND AND CHORUS OF SIXTY.
Admission—Dress Circle, 5s.; Stalls, 3a.; Pit, 2s.
Box plan at Huenerbiems Music Warehouse, 411
George-street, where seats may be secured for any
date*In advance. Day tickets obtained at
Stone’s, tobacconist, next Theatre.
Secretary to A. T. Dunning, A. N. Hallipax.
P E R A
HOUSE
... Mr. W. J. Wilson
Snb-Lessee .7. .. 8'ff- 8- Majeronl
Aottng^Busl ness Manager . Mr 8 Genoso
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
SIO. MAJBRONI has the honour to announce that
he has leased the above Theatre for tho purpose of
Introducing for the second time, after his trium-
phant tour in all the colonies,
The Great Comedian.
MR. POLK MR. POLK
MR. POLK MR. POLK
MR. POLK MR- POLK.
wh« will be supported by his wife, the clever and
popular actress,
JULIA A. POLK
JULIA A. P0L1$
JNLIA A. POLK,
and a very select and powerful company,
MISS MYRA IvRMBLB,
MR. JOHN L. HALL,
and
Mr. Edwin Lester Mr. A. Boothman
Mr. Pobert A. Vernon Mr. Goo. Forbes
Mrs. Edwin Bryer
sb“tbmbbr“
M B llTm tD AT.8BBTE M BBR W
will appear in the Modern Society Comedy, in 4 acts,
entitled ,
AN ARABIAN NIGHT
AN ARABIAN NIGHT
AN ARABIAN NIGHT
or HAROUN-AL-BASCHip
and
HIS MOTHER-IN-LAW,
with
entirely New Scenery, Costumes, ana
Appointments.
Private Boxes, St 3s ;~Dreft8 Circle, Ss; Stalls, «s,
PIT, ONE SHILLING.
Bex plan new open at Hnenerbein’s, where seats
may be secured In advance.
THEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Management©!
Messrs. Williamson, Garner. & Mdbobovk.
THIS (Thursday) EVENING^
BENEFIT
of
MISS JENNIE LEE.
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7,
POSITIVELY the LAST APPEARANCE ©f
Miss JENNIE LEE.
'
Academy of music.
Lessee . .. Mr. Fred. W. Minis.
Manager .. Mr. Leopold Jordatu^
ENORMOUS SUCCESS. T C^2lPlR« E I ?.? TLY '
The cry is, STILL THEY COME !
Sir as Muldoon. Sarah Walker, Brother Zacha-
riah, Sambo, Terence O’Reilly, and other exoru-
clatinglv funny characters.
Ladies scream wi?h laughter at MUlis ; Gentlemen
actually roll off their chairs with laughter at
Ml Ills.
Read what i
cured of
GIFT of an ELEGANT AUSTRIANDLNT WOOD
SUITE OF FURNITURE
And ONE HUNDRED and 1IF- Z CUTS
EVERY EVENING,
150 GIFTS TO-NIGHT
150 GIFTS TO-NIGHT
150 GIFTS TO-NIGHT,
and Elegant Austrian Bemtwpod Suite
EVERY EVENING at MILLIS S ENTERTAIN-
MENT.
ACADEMY OF MUSIC.
Seats—3s., 2s., and Is. Doors open at 7.15, com-
TianisLMr. W. Adams. Agent. Mr. Nat. Jacobs.
Masonic hall. 1
YORK-STBEET.
Ticssee and Manager .. Mr. F. E. Hlscocks.
A Success from the Start! The Climax Reached .
A perfect tornado of applause.
iwnTHER CROWDED HOUSE LAST NIGHT
EVERY EVENING at EIGHT,
The Great Laughing Event of the Age.
The Best Vocalists ever contained In one troupe.
The Best Comedians ever seen on any stage.
The Rest Specialists ever under one Management,
Great _
Male Soprano, Burlesque Prima Donna and Bird
Charmer, who was awarded a perfect ovation on
each appearance ; the vast audience spellbound at
the wonderfu. -city of his performing birds.
Every artist encored.
Admission— Fauteuils Is, Stalls 3s, Pit Ss, Gallery Is.
Doors open 7, overture at 8. Carriages at 10.30.
ILL Shortly Open, a Largo WAXWORKS
Exhibition, op. the Markets, George-street.
W
TO PROFESSIONAL TROUPES.
OW open for engagement at NYNQBN, near
Hallway Station, the
“ ASSEMBLY ROOMS,”
a large and well-appointed HA Apply te
tt HEARD & M’KEN ‘ i, Agents.


XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX X
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX X X
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Hordern brothers,
311, Pitt-stroet
Prints. Prints, Prints,
Zephyr Cloths. Zephyr Cloths.
Sateens. Sateens. Sateens.
Cambrics. Cambrics. Cambrics.
50 cases of these goods opened this
morning-, the beginning of the Spring
season.
Prints for Spring
Sateens for Spring
Cambrics for Spring
in endless variety of pattern and multi-
tudinous prices, commencing at 3Md a
yard.
Our London representative, Mr. E. C.
XX ‘Hordern, has succeeded beyond our
XX most sanguine hopes in securing for this
seasons’s trade a grand assortment of
Sateens, Prints, Cambrics, &c., remark-
able for choice design, specially well
finished, and unprecedented in value ;
Indeed they are the beat value we have
ever been able to offer.
Remember, wo are this morning show-
ing our tlrst season’s shipments, and
truly a grander assortment was never
submitted to the
AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Witness our Northern Window, in
which is now being displayed some of
the newest and most beautiful pro-
ductions of Prance and England, in
Sateens and Zephyr Cloths.
A grand assortment of Plain Coloured
Sateens and Cambrics shown in our
Main Bntrace are Manchester Cambrics
at‘Z%d,3%d, 6d, and 7Hjd. All choice and
elegant patterns.
Now is the time to secure the best of
the patterns. Com e down TO-DAY and
have a look at them.
The best place in 1 own for
PRINTS AND SATEENS is
at HORDERN BROTHERS’.
SPRING DRESSES
SPRING DRESSES
SPRING DRESSES,
Ex Mail Steamers.
We are now showing our first ship-
ments of
NEW SPRING DRESS MATERIALS.
No trouble has been spared by our
London buyer, Mr.E. C. Hordern, to for-
ward us the latest productions of the
best British and Continental firms to
place before the ladies and the public of
Sydney for Spring trade.
PARIS and BERLIN CHECKS—A
splendid range of novel effects, suitable
for costumes or trimming plain ma-
terials 36 inches wide, from ,
SHEPHERD CHECKS.-Wo have re-
ceived a very large range of these goods.
The now blending of colour is perfect
and most suitable for Ladies’ or Chil-
dren’s wear, 36 inches wide, from Is.
The new Indian CLOTH is a beauti-
fully soft wool fabric, light in texture,
and in all the newest tints for Spring
wear, 36 Inches wide, from Is 3d.
SPRING CASHMERETTES.—A very
large assortment of these goods, in
drabs, fawns, greys, hazel, terra cotta,
moss green, crushed strawberry, dam-
son, nut brown, &c., &c., 36 inches wide,
from 10 }4d.
ANGOLA BEIGE, specially recom-
mended tor durability, in all the new
compounds and mixtures of colours, 35
inches wide. Is lj/*d.
THE NEW BEIGE CREPE, in every
shade, suitable for evening or outdoor
wear, 36 inches wide, 10\Ad.
SUMMER HOMESPUNS, in every
shade, fMd, lOd, Is.
FRENCH BEIGES, in every shade,
6><jd, 7>£d, lOd, Is.
Call and see our selection before
making your Spring purchases.
Complete sets of PATTERNS and
guides for self-measurement on appli-
cation.
Note the Address—
HORDERN BROTHERS.
In PITT-STRBBT.
N.B.—Our goods are purchased upon
the best terms known to the trade,
thereby securing an additional discount,
the benefit of which is given to our
patrons,
HORDERN BROTHERS, in Pitt-st.
SILK DEPARTMENT,
We have opened, during the past
week, several cases of Satins, Ottomans,
and Broches, in all the newest shades
and tints. They are really beautiful
goods, bought on very advantageous
terms, direct from the manufacturers.
We are enabled to mark them much be-
low our usual extremely low prices.
Our stock of Silks is one of the largest
in the colony, and, for variety of shades,
quality, and the prices we charge, can-
not be equalled in Australia.
The following lines we call your
special attention to ;—
Coloured Gros Grain Silks,
at Is lid, 3s 6d, 3s lid per yard; beautiful
evening shades. They are really well
worth double the money.
Black Gros Grain Silks,
Is 9d, 3s 6d, 3s lid ; wide width.
The best value ever offered in the
colony.
Coloured Satins,
in all the newest shades,
ranging in prices from to Is lid
per yard.
Black Satins,
the best value we have ever yet offered,
from Is 6d to 7s lid per yard.
Washing Silks,
in stripes and checks,
from Is 9d per yard
Silk Moires and Broches,
in black and colored, from Is 3d per yd.
A really grand line at 3s 6d.
A large stock of China Silks,
from 6><jd per yard upwards.
10 cases of Black and Coloured Broche
Velveteens, bought late in the season at
a large discount off manufacturers'
prices, and which we are now offering
at Is 9d per yard ; well worth 3s lid.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX X X
X XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX X
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal— Benefit to Miss Jennie Lee p. 10.
Opera House— “Barbe Bleue” ib.
Gaiety Theatre— “Woman of the People”, ib.
Masonic Hall— Federal Minstrels ib.
ACADEMY of Music.—Millis’s Entertainment ib.
The Euphonic Orchestral Society’s concert
was complimentary, and the Protestant Hall
crowded. It may have been a case of “necessary
connection,” or “ cause and effect.” A lady sitting-
on the right of the platform first “fetched” us.
In front of her was an instrument like the altar-
piece of a Chinese joss-house. It was some time
before we discovered that she “ ran ” three drums
and a set of bells. When the big drum’s solo came
round, she just touched something with her foot,
and a stick like a retired boxing-glove caught that
instrument fair in the vitals, and made him tell
how bad he felt. Whenever her foot meandered
towards the “ pedal,” we knew that the cruel stick
would start up from somewhere, and deal a blow
as treacherous as that of “ Punch ” when he struck
the devil with the dead body of his murdered wife.
Rossini’s favourite overture, “ Semiramis,” opened
the ball. The “tempo” of the allegro was rather
slow. Once there was a slight disagreement be-
tween conductor and conducted. The former w.is
“shook out” bad, and had to do as he was told.
A “ tenor ” sang well. We suggest that, in future,
he carry something in his hands—a roll of music,
a brown paper parcel, a carpet bag, a number of
THE Bulletin, or even a baby. A man should
have something. One of Chopin’s nocturnes was
played nicely. We did not hear it, as an enthu-
siast at our end was tuning a fiddle in a cellar
under the platform. Miss Tunks has a sweet
mezzo-soprano. The “andante” from Haydn’s
No. 3 symphony was the gem of the evening.
There was a duet on violins. When they started
they were on friendly terms, but about the sixth
fence an estrangement arose, and some jostling
took place. Coming up the straight the little chap
was some bars ahead, but the other ran round a
few posts, and they passed the stand nose and nose.
At the commencement they suggested Paganini
and his pupil, but before the finish half the people
in the hail were humming the Dutchman’s “little
wee dog” whose fate has come down to us in
verse—
“ Vhenever I bass by a butcher’s and stop,
I vhistles dis bootiful air;
But ze sausages never come out o’ dat shop,
So my leetle dog is not dere.”
The “tramway galop” is good. It describes the
start, ticket-collecting, collision, journey, resump-
tion, break-down, and return home. We did not
hear it properly, as a determined-looking man
with a large stick, Roman nose, valuable jewellery,
and suspicious linen, kept his eyes on us most of
( lie time. When we noticed him, no part of the
vast hall fascinated us so much as the door. We
got there, hut the number of bald-headed men
and frayed women who swore at us cn route
would fill a soup-kitchen. There is nothing in
life more prosaic or less suggestive of melody
than a Sydney tram-car, whether it be running
or broken down. The person, therefore, who
could set this to music, and work in a “break-
down” and a “ticket-collecting,” has a fortune
before him in this country—it capital punishment
be abolished. For private reasons we did not re-
main for the whole “galop,” but we suspect that
big drum had to be worked with a wind-mill, es-
pecially when the cars collided. Of the remaining
numbers on the programme, we cannot speak
personally, but, late at night, we met a brother
Avho had sat it out, sandwiched between his
mother-in-law and a dilletante policeman. He said
he never came across anything like it, and would
count the days till the next anniversary. This is
not much additional information, but we thought
we’d give it.
* * * *
The- Evening News tells us that ‘“The
Horrors of Drink ’ still maintain their hold upon
the playgoing portion of the community.” That’s
rough on Dan’l Bandmann. What about the
“ Thousands reclaimed i . Families where Destitu-
tion Reigned now Restored to Peace and Happi-
ness”!!!
* * * *
Will this man ever die? To our sorrow
we know him of old, as the simple-minded, but
warm-hearted yokel who jumps on the stage just
as Ot hello is about to asphyxiaeate the missus, and
knocks the nig-ger out in three rounds ; we have
a painful recollection of him as the impulsive
idiot who, as Danny Mann, leads the Colleen Bawn
off to the boat, shouts out “ Dont ee go wi ’im, ma
girl; he’s up t’ no good I tell yer;” aye I we re-
member him when as a little artless child, wearing
a stiff-starched pinny and a neglected nose, he
yelled just as the heavy villain was about to stab
the faithful lover, “,Oh, please don’t kill him, sir,
or we’ll get no more passes.” And now our grey
bristles are brought with sorrow to the boneyard
by reading that immediately after the curtain at
Kyneton (Vic.) had dropped on an act of “East
Lynne,” Miss Willis and Horn Keogh came to the
front, and the inevitable mudhead in the back
seats, who was shedding a Niagara of tears over
the supposed death of Carlyle, at once roared to
his wife: “Why, woman, the little fellow ain’t dead
after all; and she’s corned to front to show us it’s
only a make-believe all through.” " Such an in-
stance says the local rag, “goes far to show how
realistic a competent company can ” [Oh give
us a rest—kill him—roast him—eat him,— Ed. B.]
* * ♦ »
We never gush. It Is not our line. One
who has sat under the “Horse-shoe” fall will
restrain himself in presence of the Willoughby.
Should he have seen sixty thousand men man-
oeuvre m the Champ de Mars,” or heard the band
ot the Guides, ’ he will master his feelings before
a processon of Parramatta firemen, and listen to
the Harmy” big drum without emotion. In a
word, we are bias J; and so when a letter addressed
Hiscoeks, Esq., was placed in our hands, con-
taining a request to plant the bearer in the best
seat right in front of the “ interlocutor,” and treat
him to an oyster supper when the “ gaff” was over,
we felt no genuine enthusiasm. We missed the
seat, and, somehow, the supper missed us. The
first thing that thawed out our constitutional
melancholy was the sight of the over-verdant
Nicholas La Feuillade, fiddling away as if life with-
out cat-gut and horse-hair was not worth the
living. Good Lord! how the world has wagged
w®. first swelled with arrogance and ale on
Nick s condescending to “ join us” and allowing
us to pay while he told of his amours. Amery,
Bent, Braham! The well-remembered mouths
whose contortions and [simulated mirth helped to
keep us from the “ Yana” and from “Pentridge”
in days long gone by. AVhen one sees a big,
shroud-furled ship sail up the harbour against
wind and tide he knowns that on the far side
there is a little “ tug” snorting and wheezing
to hump the monster along. So we knew there
was a person “ rastllng ” with the piano on our left,
though we never caught sight of him or his instru
ment. At the back of the stage was an instrument
like an eight-day clock. Two men engineered it,
and whenever a joke was made these honest fel-
lows would leave their places, and laugh so reck-
lessly that their whole digestive process was open
tor inspection. The mirth was infectious, and
rows of open mouths and swaying trunks told how
it had gone straight to the spot. Go and see them.
Unless you’re very early, you’ll not get a seat.
“Barbe Bleue” promises to be very popular.
It is a bright, lively opera, and worth seeing, if
only for the display of dresses. Miss Chard, as
Boulotte, is charming, but we were sorry to hear
when we were present on Saturday night that Miss
Chard was ill. Wo have not heard whether she
has recovered since, but we hope she has. Her
part was taken by Miss Ivanova, and very nicely
taken, too. A gentleman whose name we found
out, but subsequently forgot in our usual careless
way, took the part of Deane Brand. We wanted
to remember the name of this gentleman, because
we wanted to say that he formed a very excellent
substitution, indeed. It is not often we cherish a
name for such a generous purpose, so we are all
the more sorry that we mislaid his. Perhaps, how-
ever, he is a philosopher, and despises fame. So
do we. We have always found that tame was
simply serviceable as an additional clue for baililfs.
But we are getting didactic. Let us just say that
Knight Aston seems to sing better every time we
hear him, and that there seems to be a proportion-
ate improvement in the voices—not to say the
legs—of every other performer, and we have
finished. Any one who wishes to know more
about “Barbe Bleue” had better go and see it.
This is the sort of criticism that goes to the hearts
of managers.
* * * *
Fred Millis is, we are pleased to say, draw-
ing llrst-class audiences to the Academy of Music.
He certainly gives a wonderful enfertainment. It
is as funny as anything has a right to be without
being taxed. Some of the jokes are so new as to
be aimost dangerous. And the presents! But we
are somewhat dissatisfied on this head. We have
been to the show three time?, and we have had to
send the van away empty every time. This is a
sly reminder to Mr. Jordan. We shall be around
again during the week. The van will be waiting
in the side-passage.
* * * *
We have written “ Sundry Shows ” under
many strange circumstances, and it is not too much
for us to say that we have sparkled when less
stronger natur.es would have been crushed. We
have written them with a dead man in the room
above, whilst the bereaved widow, in the tempest
of her grief, was banging the family about with a
rum-bottle. We have written them, too, when a
crushed tragedian has been waiting with a paling
for us in the lane, while a comedian who had gone
wrong foamed revenge at the counter. Well, we
are writing them now under certain disadvantages.
There is the shriek of the tram, and the howl of
of the Race-book boys—the Bacchanalian laughter
of revellers on the way to the Metrop., and the
hoarse roar of the ’bus-men. Clement Scott, the
London critic, states that he requires “ perfect
quiet” when analysing a play, and Comyns Carr,
another critic, recently prosecuted an organ-
grinder. The Vagabond prosecuted our own Ger-
man Band. We should like, ‘ perfect quiet,” too,
and, in our zeal, should love to prosecute an
organ-grinder. We should like also to give penal
servitude for life to our subsidised slave for a
playful way she has of singing popular ballads “ in
a singular minor key” while administering mo-
lasses to the family. But these things in a demo-
cratic dependency are denied us. We, therefore,
write cheerfully under a variety of circumstances,
and even under drawbacks which would appal the
“ crumpled rose-leaf ” section of the critical con-
tingent: we trust we are successful not only in
making our notices, Alfred, “take well,” but also
in “ giving pleasure to all.” Hem 1
* * *
Miss Jennie Lee, after many weeks of the
eternal “Grasshopper,” the success of which, to
the eternal glory (!) of the theatre-going com-
munity, cannot, for a moment, be questioned,
revived, after the run of that glorious adaptation
from the French, another adaptation from the same
language, this time by the late Tom Taylor.
The cast was a strong one, in point of names, but
the piece was carelessly put on, and, in many in-
stances, carelessly acted: so its success was con-
siderably hampered by limits. Mr. James Rain-
ford, as Bob Brierly, found great favour in the
eyes of the audience, and his Lancashire dialect
was of the right sort. When on the spree in the
first act, his make-up was very great, though in
the return from prison scene he struck us as being
just a little bit too big for Mrs. Gordon, who played
May Edwards. Excepting alwajs the Sergeant in
“ Ours,” Bob Brierly is the best thing Mr. Rainford
does. Our opinion, however, is that a little more
repose would improve him. This is our opinion.
But as James has, under his marvellous tuition,
brought so many Government House amateurs to
the pink of perfection, and instructed so many
gentlemen of the Hebrew persuasion in the art of
repeating blank verse with a minimum of tongue-
emphasis, we don’t know but what he should
bo a better authority on the matter than we are.
Jennie Lee, as Sam Willoughby, was as artistic as
an intense desire to clutch the whole of the fat
would allow her to be, and it is but fair to say that
she kept the people screaming. She is certainly
tne smallest woman it is possible to conceive—a
kind of histrionic Miss Moucher; and such short
legs were never seen since Rob Toodlo first donned
the garb of the “ Charitable Grinders.” Mrs.
George Gordon has not the physique for Mary
Edwards, and her pathos was, therefore, rather
conducive to smiles than tears. If a lady of Mrs.
G. s comfortable dimensions went about Sydney
singing to a guitar, we don’t believe she’d draw a
copper. Hawkshaw, contrary to expectations,
was enacted by Sterling Whyte, and, though he
did not achieve a hit. He cannot be said to have
made a miss. Miss Ethel Adele had a chance
as Emily St. Evremond, and vastly entertained
the pit, while Mr. Warner, who played Green
J ones, may be said to have done tlie same thing
tor the gallery. The rest were all right; which is
more than can be said for the scenery, the stage-
pictures shown being a surprising collection of
cripples. May Edwards’s abode would have suf-
ficed to make her sad, independent of the grief she
experienced at the “lumbering” of Bob Brierly.
* * * «
Then there has been “Jo” again, which is
an inexpressible bore, and which is called “ a
powerful drama,” and given a sub-title “ The Poor
Crossing Sweeper;” which reminds us that once,
in Queensland, Joey Gougenheim billed “The
Merchant of Venice” ns “Shylock; or The Wicked
Jew I” On Thursday (to-night) Miss Lee is to have
a ben. (the particulars of which, as wo write, are
not to hand), and we hope it will be a big one; for
although we cannot admire Mr. Burnett’s “power-
ful dramas” very considerably, we can admire
Miss Jennie a good deal.
* * * *
Hut le roi cst mart (or nearly so), therefore
vi.ve le roi. We mean by this terrible blast of
T rench that Bland Holt appears at the Royal with
his combination in Pettit’s “Taken from Life,”
which Bland calls a “poetical and sensational
drama, and which we believe is a horse-drama
besides. This being the case, it is a wonder Bland
does not at once “specially engage” Willie Warner,
whose equestrian exercises have of late so
exercised the town. In the company are Dam pier
and Hemming, (alas! Herbert!) Jordan, a lot more
men, and a Mr. Cazar, whom we don’t even remem-
ber to have seen even ocCazarnally. Then there
are Annie Mayor (be still, our hearts!) Miss Annie
Taylor, someothers, and > what makes us thought-
ful) that fairy actress, Miss Rose Dampier. “Taken
from Life” is described as being the best of the
new school of spectacular melodrama we have yet
seen. We hope it is better than “Mankind,” any-
way.
* * * *
Un instant. Herr Max Yogrich, with
Alice Rees, Herr Kretschmann (phew!), and Herr
Patok commence a series of six concerts at the
Protestant Hall to-night. The programme is
Patekularly brilliant, though a trifle over-classical.
Now, mark! There is more in this combination
than meets the eye. For further particulars see
sma Woll.no! Watch a certain column of the
Herald that ladies always jump for. Say— er—
the Show column. And talking or concerts, Halle-
well, Miss Dora Browne, and Miss M. St.tClair gave
one on Saturday night last, which they pleasantly
term ‘ popular.” The music was so, anyhow, con-
sidering that Mr. F. Leston sang the “ Parson and
the Clerk,” Miss St. Clair the “ Fisherman’s
Daughter,” while Hallewell gave them “The
Village Blacksmith.” Miss Dora Browne (who has
really got it vocally) gave her audience what we
shall, in respect of this par., give you—“Good-
bye!”
* * * *
Bandmann, after a six weeks’ “scoop”
with “The Woman of the People,” put on “East
Lynne” on Tuesday night, too late for notice in
this issue, and “Rip” is to be ready by Saturday.
This is a good hearing, because a few times more
of “ East Lynne ” would necessitate an order for a
cherry-case. However, we intend to have a turn
at it, if only to see how Beaudet looks in spec-
tacles.
* * * *
The performance at the Opera House on
Saturday will bo illuminated by the light of the
stars. This is a new and beautitul idea. We are
only polking fun, of course, The stars we mean
are Polk (who never puts on any airs, except when
he dons a wig), Julia Polk, Myra Kemble, and—
stop till we have laughed—Johnny Hall. It will
be an Arabian Nights’ Entertainment, and we trust
there will be a thousand and one representations.
Mr. S. Genese engineers the show, and sheds a
lustre on the front of the house. We are not
gassing.
♦ * •
And while we think of it, Majeroni, who
acted as Polk’s agent while the hirsute comedian
was raking in gold here last, has resumed the sock
and buskin, and opened in Melbourne the other
day with triumphant success, aided by his accom-
plished wife. We are heartily rejoiced to hear
this. Years ago Majeroni won laurels here with
Ristori. A liner tragedian has seldom trod Aus-
tralian boards, and Signora Majeroni is worthy
of her husband. Then he lost his voice, owing to
a throat affection, just when he had, with infinite
pains and labour, mastered the English language.
Perhaps that’s what broke up his throat. Any
way, his organ has now recovered its tone, and his
genius shines forth again resplendant.
Miss Louise Beaudet.
The portrait on our front page this week is
that of the brilliant artiste, Miss Louise
Beaudet, whose name in the impressive
representation of Marie, in “ The Woman of
the People,” has been so prominently before
the public during the last few months. Miss
Beaudet has, ere this, achieved undoubted
triumphs in the most difficult Shaksperian
and other classic impersonations. Added to
a rare intelligence for interpretation and
correct dramatic embodiment, Miss Louise
Beaudet has an attractive and charming
manner and a perfection of elocution which
render her appearance upon the stage at all
times of great interest. Miss Beaudet’s
history is briefly told. She was born at
Tours, the daughter of Franco-Spanish
parents. Emigrating to America, her
people experienced the ups and downs of life,
till misfortune left the brilliant genius
of whom we write an orphan battling for
success in a profession beset with innumer-
able difficulties and discouragements. Miss
Beaudet, however, succeeded. She studied
under good masters, and, in San Francisco,
was fortunate in receiving an engagement
from Herr Bandmann, whose tuition has
developed her latent talents. Miss Beaudet’s
career on the Australian stage is very well
known. She has proved herself to be one of
the most diligent and earnest artistes of her
profession,. As seen in Beatrice, Rosalind.
Ophelia, &c. In all, Miss Beaudet has
given most acceptable representations. Few
artistes have worked harder for success-
few have been so successful.
A new arrival in the back-blocks says it is
remarkable how many of the small land-holders,
cows calve twice a year out there !
“Give me,” said Lord Kilgobbin, “the
man that invented a flat candlestick.” But the
real benefactor of his kind was he who invented
the umbrella. A man may wear bad boots, sus-
picious hat, odd gloves. Let him carry a limp um-
brella, and he is lost—but not irretrievably. By
bringing the unsightly article to Sullivan, of 541
Georgc-street, he can get it made as good as new,
obtain long credit, and win his way back into
select society.
He came to us one afternoon,
A life-insurance man,
And, rolling out his papers, he
To open fire began.
We paid no heed; we wrote our screed—
We’d seen such men before—
And with our left hand gracefully
We pointed to the door.
We wrote our screed; he paid no heed,
But, cabnly all the while.
He sailed on with his statements in
The old bald-headed style.
We slid our hand down to the floor,
And, taking up a bone,
We brandished it, and signified
We wished to be alone.
He made no move, nor through his veins
The slightest shudder ran,
When we said, “ Do, the thigh-bone of
The last Insurance man.
“ Like you, he came here full of hope.
But see the satire grim,
This calcined bone we show you now
Is all remains of him.”
But that Insurance man he smiled,
And went on with his tale:
The sight of Adam’s bones would not
Have made his cheek grow pale.
At last we did what we have done
Full many a time before:
We signed unto a slave, and he
Did cast him from the door.
Of course, he tried the old, old tricks—
Nought could keep him aloof;
He came in through the window, and
He came in through the roof.
At last, gro a tired, we said to him,
With an 0 j&ct benign,
“ Hand over our proposal, and,
By thunuer, we will sign.
He handed his proposal, and
We signed it fair and free—
A very bold and running style
Is our caligraphy.
Then, smilingly, we said to him,
.lust as he turned to go.
“ There’s one thing we’ve forgotten that
We think you ought to know:
“ Wo are dramatic critics.” Hero
He clutched the air, and tied
His lip up in a knot, and so,
Like all the others, died.
“BARBE BLEUE.”
The woman was young: and fair,
The man was of middle age;
They sat in the seats, and gazed
At the players upon the stage.
The woman was bright and gay—
Her’s was one of the sunny lives—
And she smiled with a careless smile
At the six unhappy wives.
The man had a darksome look,
His brow a cold frown wore;
He was thinking of bygone times,
When he’d seen such a play before.
Far across the circle he saw,
Sitting straight opposite,
Another woman he’d known
When her life was gay and bright.
Still she smiled who sat at his side—
What could the new wife know
That the woman over the way
So sat in the long ago ?
But the man ? Did his old love's eyes
Bring dreams of the days afar ?
Did he sigh? Alas! not he;
He went out and smoked a ciyar.


Woman Items.
The world’s new term for the faux pas of a
fashionable woman—An act of gal-langtry.
Woman (looking over blankets in a shop):
“ Well, I didn’t mean to buy ; am just looking for
a friend.” Salesman (politely) : “ Don’t think
you’ll find your friend among the blankets. We’ve
looked ’em all through.”
Madame de Lesseps proposed to her hus-
band by giving him a rose. Very pretty and very
poetical ; but if anyone wishes to gain our young
affections we take this opportunity of saying that
she will have a better chance if she presents us
with a sausage-roll. We are of a romantic turn of
mind, but we hide it. We admire Shakespeare,
but we adore sausages.
In the old country one of the burning
questions is entitled “ the future of marriage.”
Some highly respectable people think that the old
sanctity is rapidly going out of the institution, and
that there are not wanting wicked men (secularists,
nihilists, revolutionaries and radicals) who, if
they had their way, would plump for marital
contracts terminable at will. In some of the
American States it has almost come to that
already. But, cheer up, timid ones ! It is an in-
stitution capable of a great deal of wear and tear
yet. It has held out so long now that It will pro-
bably continue (with the impedimenta of empty
quasi-religious forms) while men and women see
the love-light in each others’ eyes, or, which is much
the same thing, until a C.M.G. is found to say off
the months of the year and spell them.
A self-acting sofa, just big enough for two,
has been invented. By some unexplained means,
just as Reginald draws the fairy form of his Ange-
lina Maud to his side, and imprints a pump-sucker
kiss on the ruby lips of the Madonna-like face
before him, the sofa machinery rings a bell in the
back parlour, and Pa, rushing in with the bulldog
at his heels, dumps his outstretched hands on the
lovers’ heads, casts a martyr-like gaze at the chan-
delier, and gasps “ Ber-less you, me ohild-der-en I
may y’ both live long an’ prosper.” Then Reginald
darts a wistful glance at the hat-rack, but the dog
smells his boots significantly, and another good
man goes wrong in a fortnight.
That’s what we call substantial sympathy!
Your addresses of condolence are all very good in
their way, but fall far short of lilling the void left
in the heart when your wedded partner goes to the
angels. We don’t know if there be anything that
can till it. It is deep, deep. We got condolences,
some of them as long as the request of a special
commission, and they were sorrow wasted. We had
concluded that nothing given by man could bring a
smile to the face of the breaved one. But she
never died when we were in Ballarat, and so we did
not know until last week, that human genius had
devised a triumphant way of banishing the grim
demon of affliction. To us, it appears triumphant;
at all events we ungrudgingly bestow upon its
inventor the bays and other things that genius
hungers for. For Instance, the wife of the Rev. J.
M Goldreich died over in that quarter some days
ago, and the Ballarat people made up a purse of
450 sovereigns for the stricken one. We are
getting ready to go to Ballarat. She’s a little weak
and pale now, but she’ll last till we get there. It’s
the only spot on earth where we can be healed of
our grievous wound. Ma/rchons!
Things socially appear to be gay in the
States. The awful crack of the murderer’s pistol is
still heard in every direction, while the brutal
practice of lynching prisoners before trial, by
mobs, who are themselves criminals of the worst
type, seems to be spreading. A few days ago, a
young clergyman, on the ground, as appears, that
a girl of 17 made a charge against the principal of a
female college, also a clergyman, and a man of
§ resum ably high character, got a pistol and mur-
ered the older-clergyman. At a Kentucky school
exhibition, two men were asked not to make a
noise, so they forthwith “ opened fire ” on him who
ad Iressed them. He returned the Are. Before it
was over, one of the combatants was mortally
wounded, another badly wounded, and a bystander
was shot dead. Even weddings cause trouble
occasionally also. “ An’ them ’uns who God have
Jined,” said a coloured divine. “ Stop thar, boss,”
roared the groom; “ don’t sav them ’uns, say these
’uns.” “John,” said parson, “I teeched you at
skool, an’ I say them ’uns.” “These ’uns,” cried
the groom, pulling out his fire-iron. But the
minister was too quick, and firing through his sur-
Elioe, shot his customer dead. Then the company
red at the parson, and the fun began. When the
smoke cleared, half-a-dozen men were writhing on
the floor, and the bride, who had crawled into the
pulpit, looking sorrowfully down on the scene,
observed: “That’s my fifth attempt at a hitch.
Them self-cockin’ pistols is a-playin’ the dickens
with my mattrymonlal prospeoks.”
In a N.Z. paper appears this interesting
domestic announcement:—“At Whangarei, on the
19th Instant, for the third and last time, the wife of
Mr. John Low, of a daughter.” It certainly indi-
cates on the part of Mr. John Low a strength of
good Intention not often met with. Of course, if
the happy father is satisfied on the point, it’s no
business of ours: but we can’t help fancying—so
uncertain are things in this mutable world—that
there’s nothing sure, but heaven. Little incidents
occur sometimes, that you haven’t the least ex-
pected. In spite of John’s expressed resolution,
we venture to offer him just a line or two :—
Some people count their chickens ere
The hatching does befal;
But Johnnie ventures to declare
His chicks shan’t hatch at all!
You funny man! It’s very well
To say what you intend,
But, how the mischief can you tell
What blessings heaven may send ?
Writes Dr. Belgrave:—I lately visited a
well-endowed and well-situated country hospital,
in which the nursing was superintended by one of
the Macquarie-street models of “ sweetness.” I
found every rood of the spacious grounds a
cabbage garden, the wards gloomy, the nursing
apparatus, beds, &c., of the most primitive de-
scription, and the “ lady superintendent” herself
attired in a fluffy absorbent dress, with a train a
yard long. This respectable person exercised no
useful influence over either committee, doctors,
patients, her own nurses, nor the ladies of the dis-
trict. She accepted things as she found them, and
had hardly an idea beyond keeping on good terms
with the treasurer, whose idea of his function ap-
peared to be simply that of a cashier or banker,
not to find ways and means, but simply to econo-
mise and keep a good balance. In my conversation
with this pupil of Miss
Osborne, I elicted but one original idea—evidently,
the outcome of recollections of the past—viz., that
“ it was not good for nusses in hospitals to sleep
three in one small room.”
As ‘ Royal Ascot” racecourse is one of the
very few places where the aristocratic ladies of
England dress splendidly in the daytime, the toilets
on snch occasions are eagerly waited for. The
Ascot Cup day comes in the very height of the
London season, and a celebrated beauty can hardly
atford to be absent. Admission to the royal en-
closure can only be obtained by cards from the
Lord Chamberlain, which no money can secure if
the applicant is of an inferior set. All the noted
belles were there, and on the last Gold Cup day, a
dozen of the most stylish women in England wore
short dresses of all white, showing black silk
stockings. The Princess of Wales, the Countess of
Dudley and Mrs. George Powell wore these. Some
people haven’t heard o. the last named lady ; but
they will hear. For she is the coming beauty of
the day. Of course, the fact of her being married
doesn’t in any way interfere with a weman being
a belle—they’re all the same to the Prince of Wales.
Only a provincial girl, she married at 19, before her
beauty was discovered, a retired officer of 60, with
a bulky cheque-book. With wealth she quickly
rose to notice, and no sooner did she appear to be
presented at Court—in a white satin marvel of
Worth’s, flitting glovelike to her faultless mould—
than Albert Edward’s eye at once brightened with
an appreciative sparkle. That settled the matter.
Twenty-four years old, tall and slight, with black
hair and eyes, a marble white complexion and
scarlet lips, she is a type of the style of beauty
now leading the fashion. Add to these, classic
features, white teeth, a willowy figure with
small waist and tiny feet—and that’s the lady
whom, in snow white cambric and black silk stock-
ings, the Prince of Wales helped from her carriage
on tne Ascot lawn, and walked with, and talked to,
while the half of patrician England looked on.
That’s the lady upon whom the polite but portly
heir to the British throne intlicted three of his
ponderous waltzes at the last State Ball. So Mrs.
Powell will yet be heard of. The last favourite,
Miss Chamberlains, the fair American, was there,
in a wonderful creation of grass green velvet and
white satin sides, but she didn’t look happy that
day.
At the famous fashionable American
watering-place. Long Branch, there is a delightful
freedom of manners which is apt to cause just a
little shock of pleased surprise to the visitor who
enjoys it for the first time. On every hand, the
cool bright beach is dotted with parties of bathers,
in every variety of fox’m and style, who loll about
in their clinging garments in full abandon. The
ladies—as is the manner of their sex—derive from
the fact of their numbers a courage which prompts
them to display a fascinating diablerie in their
movements that would greatly strain a prim Eng-
lish girl’s idea of propriety. Coming dripping out
of the sparkling wavelets, some of the belles
lounge about in the warm sun in those easy and
unconventional attitudes assumed by the lovesick
maidens in “ Patience,” when Grosvenor sings to
them of the Silver Churn—attitudes which are
favourable for helping unsophisticated male per-
sons to arrive at a tolerably accurate estimate of
the outlines of the female form divine. Others,
again, practise active exercise by running on
the sands, their freedom but little hampered
by the thin and honest raiment clinging
round their form. And what could be prettier
than a bevy of vivacious maidens striving in
athletic rivalry? No constricting deceptive cor-
sets restrain their lungs and spirits; no skirts im-
pede their progress; no shoes clog their pretty
feet, and not even a stocking, with its inevitable
garter, prevents the full play of healthy muscle.
Afar off—so it seems to the eager masculine specta-
tor-several of them start abreast for an innocent
race along the sands. As they come near, with
their cheeks glowing, their bosoms panting, their
hair streaming in the wind, the observer uncon-
sciously becomes a student as eager as if this were
his last opportunity on earth to regard nature’s
most perfect workmanship. As they fly past he
unconsciously discovers that one young lady is not
actually so thin as she appears in her daily attire;
that the tip of a tiny root with which another
belle magnetises the gaze of her many admirers on
the block is a faithful indication of a more complete
symmetry, the existence of which on ordinary
occasions one may only surmise; while a third
lively beauty is discovered to have a bust not
nearly so ample as would be thought from a casual
glance in the street. All that a man learns in such
moments is truth, unalloyed and undisguised. He
could hardly learn such things elsewhere, about
such choice beings, without fear of the police or
of irate fathers, brothers, or lovers; but, at the
seashore—blessed be the mysteries of etiquette-
woman is as unabashed as Eve before Adam, and
almost as slightly adorned.
* * *
A. J. Smith, Melbourne, has published a book
entitled “How to Make Home Happy.” We know
how some Melbourne men might do it easily.
Keep as far from home as possible A Bega
lady has had twins for the fourth time ! Bight
twins in one family ! I “A woman’s tears cost
her Utile, but bring her much.”.... In reply to a
woman who gave out she was going to marry an
English peer, Mrs. Frank Leslie says “I am far
too mucn wedded to my work, far too proud of
the name I bear, and which through my dead hus-
band is known in every land, far too devoted to my
country and mv people to relinquish these for any
position, however brilliant, that might be offered
tome.” Yum ! He : “Don’t you dance at all
this evening, madame?” “Not till midnight.”
“Whyso?” “Because to-day is the anniversary
of my husband’s death.”
To restore nerve and brain waste, nothing
equals Hop Bitters. Believe this. See.
BRIEF MENTION.
The Chief Justice of New South Wales—
Sir James Martinet.
The average price fetched by female slaves
at Tangiers is about £10. Here they have fre
quently to give a premium—we mean a dowry— to
be taken off the dealer’s hands.
They were talking about the classics, at
the Russell-street Police Barracks, Melbourne: “r
went through Caesar,” saidXlOO, carelessly. “How
much did you find on him ?” asked X289.
then there was gloom.
The Victorian Ordnance Board object to
bayonets and other weapons from the military
stores being Jent for dramatic performances. De-
lightful irony I As if they were ever used for any
other purposes. 1
A reading entertainment of a very superior
kind was recently given at Geelong, and by way of
a draw it was announced the charge for admission
would bo a silver coin of any description. Out of
560 coins received, 475 were threepenny pieces '
“ Scootland I I smell thee noo.”
Now that Commodore Erskine is on the
mend, we trust he will lend us a new Union Jack
for Government House. Sydney. Even the “Ini
vincibles ” poked their “borack” at the one now
up; Mr. Kavanagh remarking that it struck him as
being the “ tatthered remains av a moighty hard
wash.”
They say that when Thady O’Kane wades
through three exchanges without finding himself
spoken of as either a political renegade, a perverter
of facts, or a coarse, corrosive, carminiferous, can-
tankerous carbuncle on the face of nature, he
loses his head, and rushes round to the lock-up to
give himself in charge for a criminal libel.
Heard in King-street (Madagascar) a week
ago:—
“Postponed again! there’s not in this
Or reason, sirs, or rhyme;
Postponed again—it seems to be
A case of * this time.”
[♦The only word in the whole thing we can’t make
out. In the Malagasy language it stands thug
jiganjotoporti. Could their Honors here (who have
the reputation of being good linguists) assist us ?—
Ed. B.]
In Browne and others v. M'Elhone and
others, Innes, J, said that although Mr. Dalton was
not a man of great eminence in the legal profes-
sion, there was nothing to disentitle him to being
considered a fairly competent conveyancer. Dalton
might return the compliment by remarking that
although Sir Je-oseph is not a man of eminence in
the legal profession, there is nothing in his char-
acter or antecedents to disentitle him to being
considered fairly qualified to act respectably the
part of a church-warden.
“ A wallaby drive will take place at the
‘ Briars ’ on Saturday, August 18. Meet at Mr-
James Root’s at 9 o’clock. All invited. All shooters
bringing no driver forfeit their scalps.” And to
this it has come in a community which babbles ox
its British descent! The advertisement is to ne
found in a presumably respectable paper— the
Goulburn Post. But we will baulk this inhuman
project—we will, by means of the potent powers oi
ridicule, wipe this foul blot from our adopten
land’s escutcheon.
This is the style in which the R.O. h«T'
archieal organ, the Express, jumbles up its “ Insh
whispers “ The thanks of the Catholic com-
munity are specially due to the Right Rev. Bishops
and clergy who came, at great personal incon-
venience, “ to be present at the funeral services
in memory of Archbishop Vaughan.—Joe Sman,
the Irish Informer, coolly and neatly took his
parture from Australian shores last wees-
Miserere nobis ! The Bishops, and the clergy> a ;‘
Joe Smith ! Well, never mind. They put tn
“ clargy” first this time. Humph!
West Brothers have shipped in the Too-
liAMBA Telegraph, and Tom feels all the sahstac-
tion of wealth by anticipation. The old folio na
been metamorphosed into a broadside, with w
inevitable Cameron and Laing, and the eloqueu
Lanky M’Donald is still about the premises,
used to be pathetic to watch Lanky walking cl0 'y
to the office to have his leader set up just as i
boys would be running out of the back door w*
the papers tor delivery. But, notwithstanums
that, he used to lift the neighbourhood now»
then with an oration. Federation and turn i”
were his great themes, and Undera his most app*
dative field. It must have paid, for West u
climbed the stump already. Twelve montnsaBj;
he was a respectable and happy man, but in » wo»jj
hour he became secretary to a shire council,
the decensus was therefrom facile. Byrne sno
West down, West pulled Byrne down, the si
council used the toes of its boots, and poor' .
slid as on a greased incline till he bottomed an
torial chair. Diabvlum ejus pee nitebit.
PRICE SIXPENCE!
Uncontrollable Newspaper Grief: —“ Ah! the poor Archbishop (sob.) Poor fellow (sob.) Here (sob), buy his portrait.”
Voices.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What do the sailors say
Beyond the harbour bar ?
What is the song they sing
Under the morning star ?
Faintly it floats across
The sea’s sun-jewelled waves;
Siren-singing it seems.
Sung over seamen’s graves.
Only the sound we hear,
The words are lost midway—
Lost in the stronger song
Of sounding surge and spray.
So, in the solemn night,
Come voices, whispering words
Dearer to us than all
The songs of summer birds.
Yet do they tell no tale
More than a bird’s song tells;
List’ning, we lie as one
Who hears sea-stolen shells
Singing of seas that were
Ere ever land was born
Out of the deep, or bore
Green grass or golden corn.
Voices mystical, weird,
Voices that mourn aloof,
Voices that pierce the ear—
Voices of cats on the roof.


“French taught in twelve months in ex-
change for a bicycle.” Such is an advertisement
appearing in the Herald. There is an Irish hod-
man down our street, who is thinking of settling
in New Caledonia. Rightly fancying that a little
knowledge of French would be useful before he
started, he trundled his barrow down to the adver-
tiser’s door, and having shoved that in about the
house, remarked to Monsieur, who was making for
the fire-irons: “Dlvil a bicycle I have, but ye’re
as welcome as the flowers o’ May to me new barrow
av ye taych me Frinch for a glass o’ whisky an’ a
pipe o’ tobakky.”
Here is a rich sample of the traditional
almightiness of a bobby’« oath. Out West, the
other day, the defendant in a case pleaded one way
and of course the accusing bobby swore diametri-
cally the other. The sergeant conducting the case
very justly wished to call another witness in cor-
roboration. “ No need,” said the sagacious bench,
“ the charge has already been sworn to.” Thus the
evidence of one policeman, who might be an
embryo Mahood, is allowed to completely neu-
tralise that of the ordinary civilian. Of course
corroborative testimony takes fljtlme, and magis-
trates are prone to get—thirsty.
A. eeuntry editor’s lot is not a happy ene.
If he says Bones the butcher has the finest snow of
beef ever seen since the days of Pharoah’s seven
fat bullocks, Brisket, the opposition calf-killer,
tells him to stop sending his lying rag at once, if
not sooner, and so, in avoiding Scylla, the unfor-
tunate editor tumbles into Charybdis. We, there-
fore, sympathise with the Bega scribe, who, after
alluding to the “ miraculous good fortune of Dr.
X. who lately delivered a patient from the veri-
table jaws of death,” hastened to explain—“ This
in no way reflects upon Dr. Y., who was absent in
Sydney at the critical time here referred to.” Dr.
Y. of course, would, if necessary, even crawl down
death’s throat and haul out a patient, but Dr. X
scored a win and takes the trick on this occasion.
So Dr. Y. is let down gently.
This world is all a fleeting show for man’s
delusion given. W, J. White, the Melbourne
swindler, was, it seems, an exceptionally honest-
looking person. He had a simple, frank sort of
look that would have made you choose him out of
a bushel of passengers to hold your umbrella while
you looked for your purse. And yet—well, we
knew a man once who was such a picture of in-
genuous honesty that we would have trusted him
with anything, even our reputation. Tim© passed.
Last time we saw him he was in gaol lor robbing a
Widows and Orphans’ Fund. The most trust-
worthy people nowadays are three-card men and
thimble-riggers. You can depend on them; you
can depend on them cheating you. And even to
know that you can rely upon being cheated is a
definite fact to cling to. And you can cling to it
as to a rock. All the rest is delusion.
Thady O’Kane—of course. He says a great
many of the attorneys up North are sharks and
vultures. Mentions also that Judge Cooper lately
censured one in the open court “tor cheating
another attorney out of his dues.” The Scotch
proverb says that “ hawks dinna pike oot hawk’s
een. But, then, those are Scotch hawks. And
there are now so many legal hawks in this country
that they are compelled to fall back on the eyes of
each other occasionally. The sooner they pick
joeni out completely the sooner shall we attain to
•hat Utopian state of things where Justice is
bund. As it is, the eyes of Justice, like those
of many another mountebank, are never so tightly
bandaged but that she can see the way to her
pockets.
Here is a hideous story. Some time ago, a
man residing at Moore Park was crushed through
the breaking of a crane-chain and a consequent
fall of stone. The poor fellow was taken to the
Sydney hospital, where he lingered six days, during
which time he was constantly visited by his wife
and children. After his death, orders were given
for the removal of his body to his late residence.
The hospital servants performed the task and laid
out the corpse, the family of deceased being locked
out during the ceremony. But when the distressed
widow at last entered the room, where the cold
clay of her husband was supposed to be, she was
horrified to find the glassy eyes of a strange dead
man fixed with stony glare upon the celling. The
body of her husband, she concluded, had already
been laid in a pauper's grave. Ultimately, however,
the right body was obtained from the hospital.
In Balclutha, New Zealand, a publican was
summoned for allowing gambling in his hotel.
Knowing that the leader of the “school”—a
coroner and J.P.—would adjudicate, he came with-
out any misgivings, whistling the “Rhine Watch”—
he was Teutonic—as he approached the hall of
justice. His mouth got larger, and his step more
confident, as he neared the “ Bench ” and recog-
nised the gambling magistrate roosted In the chair.
But his confidence in his fellows was up-ended
when he heard “ Five pounds, or a month’s im-
prisonment.” Then he struck for home, and
relieved his feelings by lifting his youngest son
over the counter with a kick, shortly afterwards.
the “Court” cam© in for a drink. Then the
victualler remarked profanely “ , &c.,
&c. Vy, you was ze vorst ! Vy you vine me vive
pound?” “Oh. you be blowed, said the Bench,
I’ll toss you, double or quits.”
Let the public keep its eye on these facts.
The Anderson-Fairfax case was tried before Judge
Innes. The defendants’ subsequent; application
for a new trial was heard by the Full Court, con-
sisting of Chief Justice Martin. Judge Faucett, and
the aforesaid Judge Innes. Martin, C.J., was of
opinion that a new trial should not be granted.
Judge Faucett, on the other hand, thought that
the Herald should get anew trial. Whereupon,
on the casting vote of Judge Innes—who naturally
supported his own rulings and could see no fault
in his own summing-up—a new trial was refused.
Now, doesn’t all the foregoing simply mean that
Judge Innes’ actions in Nisi Prlus were submitted
for the approval of Judge Innes in Banco? Does
it not practically mean J. dge Innes tried to take
an outside view of Judge Innes? Cleverer men
than the Fijian knight have unsuccessfully en-
deavoured to give practical effect to the aspiration
of the great Scottish poet. Next session, we hear,
a bill will be submitted to Parliament having for
its object the suppression of this system of people
sitting in judgment u on themselves In Victoria
no Judge reviews his own decisions. And in Eng-
land the time when such things were done is fast
passing into the fogs of antiquity.
One scorching day, a lost new chum
tramped weariedly up to the shade of a oooiibar
tree, and espied two men, the elder of whom was
asleep. The other was a bush youth, with a cab-
bage-tree, hair like thatch, and a mouth specially
adapted for letting out oaths; and he volunteered
to explain the way to Bandjerrigondiyungah.
Taking the pipe from his corrugated lips, he
tapped the slumberer’s forehead. “This is a belar
scrub,” he said; “you leave that behind, and bear
over to this whim’ 1 —and he let the mouthpiece of
the “dudeen” rest ononeey . “You keep along
the creek,” he continued, following the outlines
of the nose, “ until you are out of sight of that
hill”—pipping the old cove in the other eve.—“and
then, when you come to a big waterhole, about
here” - ; and at this point of the directions, he dug
the sleeper in the mouth, which immediately be-
came full of hot tobacco ash. With an enraged
yell, the old party started up, and seized a waddy.
But the cornstalk was too quick for him, and the
pair disappeared in the timber round the bend,
we waited, but they never came back, and we
don’t know whether that cool colonial youth got
clear, or whether the crows picked him. We were
the new chum. It happened in 1803.
We know what country “Mayors” are.
We are prepared to stake our reputation against
the Rum’s longevity (we will give odds like this!)
that, of six rural Mayors in Victoria or N. 8.
Wales, three are no more successful in spelling
“ January” than a C.M.G. admirer of ours, and the
other three never crossed the border into long
division. So long, however, as these people were
held in check by an educated P.M., it did not mat-
ter very much. But in Victoria it is now proposed
to bring in an Act to allow to allow Mayors to pre-
side on the Bench —over police magistrates. This
is the ultimate straw. Up to this, we have been
fiercely democratic. Now we arc rabidly im-
perialist. A barrister with a sound legal training
bossed” on the Bench by a high priest of Venus
Cloacena! Ugh! Nor is this all. In one Victorian
city there is a bookmaker in the Council. He is
no better and no worse than his fellows. He has
the same predilection for heavy chains, heavy
rings, and heavy bets- when the time approaches
for the periodical “ skinning” of the lambs. Eigh-
teen stone of heavy protoplasm is attached to him.
When to this isadded the education of a maid of all
work, and when it is further added that ho may
become “ Mayor," the picture is—no, not complete,
but sufficiently so to make us rejoice in the legis-
lative alteration impending.
There can be no doubt of the general
advantage of making a police magistrate a nomad.
When he resides in a township, there too often
happens to spring up a police magistrate’s party,
and rightly or wrongly (unfortunately sometimes
rightly) the Impression gains ground that the
clique feels itself too confidently at home before
the court. It Victoria, the rule of making the
P.M. tour about is pretty general. He holds a
hundred or so courts in the year, over a district
four or five hundred miles in area, sometimes
catching a couple of townships in a day, and then
he spells down it in Melbourne or some other large
centre outside the boundaries of his circuit. But
there are sets-off against the general advantage ot
this method. In a little country town, the wire of
the wealthy publican, or of the we dthy pound-
keeper is very much isolated. There is really no
lady with whom she can associate. If Mrs. Police
Magistrate lived in the place it would be such an
acquisition 1 Shepparton is in earnest travail upon
that subject just now. G. D. M’Cormlck. P M
despite entreaties and requisitions, persists in
keeping house at Melbourne, and giving only six
hours a month to the wants of Shepperton. Erao
letters innumerable to the public press; ergo, apl
goals to the Government; ergo, unlimited jawing
between those who don’t know the motive princi-
ple and those who do. But G.D. «w*ai» hell
never live in Shepparton.
THE ASSASSINS' DOOM. A STERN DISMISSAL


A shell-fish.—The flshjtorpedo.
Last month only fourteen aboriginals ap-
plied for blankets at Grafton. The Government
might as well exchange the blankets for winding-
sheets.
JOY.
Just to think!
Joy? Well, yes
We should guess!
Here's a case—
Not a drink
In the place:
Had to write
All the night;
Joy to think,
Got no ink I
’Twas up North, and, coming to a hill, the
driver requested the gentlemen to alight, a sug-
gestion that was at once cheerfully complied with
by all of the male sex except one individual. There
was not a move out of him. The coachman later,
turning to the ladies, when a steeper “ pinch” had
been arrived at, requested them to alight on
account of the terrible danger of the curve. The
first individual to bound out was the horrified
male passenger, upon which, with a “ keep your
seats, ladies,” the driver cracked his whip and had
soon left the passenger half a mile behind on a
dusty road, and with the sun as hot as—Herberton.
It is almost needless for us to inform our readers
that the passenger alluded to was a missionary.
Mrs. Sitdown Long Yarowa, of Eatonvale
plantation, Queensland, has presented her dusky
spouse with a duskier son. The father advertises
the fact in the Maryborough Chronicle, and
adds, “ South Sea Island papers please copy.” Un-
like the old man, who was suspected of polygamy
and cannibalism in his early days, the boy is in-
tended for the church. Thus, at his very start in
life, a Barmecide feast is placed before him; for,
by the time ho has mastered the Apocalypse and
sworn allegiance to the Thirty-nine Articles, there
will be few of his countrymen left to convert.
Hum, religion, and rifles will have resolved them
into their constituent elements.
Our old friend George Milner Stephen has
been figuring at Ballarat, where he has been be-
stowing his ” curative magnetism” on the afflicted
poor, gratis. His success, however, appears to be
guaged by pretty narrow limits; the afflicted poor
affecting rather a disposition to tell Milner to bo
blowod than to bo bio wed on. “ Magnetized water”
is at a discount, and in vain does Milner exhibit his
collection of sticks and crutches—“ proofs” in a
double sense—with which he constantly travels.
It seems, after all, as if “ silly Sydney” was the
only city which would afford him a profitable
market for his operations. There is money to be
made here by him yet. But there is also money to
be made, it must bo remembered, by an educated
pig and a blue monkey. Not that [Memo, for
printer: Full stop here.—En. B.].
Here is a religious, and strangely enough,
therefore, a true yarn. There is a certain N.s.
Wales Scottish parson, as well known for his
wealth as for his penurious habits. Sometime back
a couple of modest damsels, belonging to a newly-
arrived family in a rural district, were horrified
one morning at noticing, at the front gate, a grey-
headed sinner hang up nis horse, and quietly com-
mence to divest himself of a pair of snowy mole-
skin trousers ! To rush into the house, and hys-
terically inform “Ma” that there was “an old
wretch outside taking off his ‘ I-never-wear-ems’"
was the work of a moment. But, when the indig-
nant old dame appeared on the verandah, to her
astonishment she was greeted by a patriarchal
parson, arrayed in the most orthodox superfine
black ! Neither she, nor the blushing damsels,
Sseping through the window, could understand it.
ut when the visit was over, the mystery was
solved. Just before mounting his horse, the
reverend devotee to religion and “filthy lucre”
quietly abstracted a neat pair of “ crown moles ”
from a bag attached to his saddle, and adjusted
them over his black pants, at the same time hitch-
ing up his coat-tails by means of two stern hooks 1
The 'cute old boy always adopted this method of
saving his clothes from equine spot or blemish.
And, after that, who will say that “ the children of
this world are wiser in their generation than the
children of light ?”
Out West very far, about a million miles
from Nyngan. Two fettlers returning from the
town with groceries and meat for themselves and
a lot of neighbours. Perhaps they were a little
“on.” Suddenly a ballast train came howling
along in the dark. A flash of the engine head-light
revealed the trolly and two men. Smash! crash 1
and the trolly was ground to lucifer matches.
When the engine was stopped, the driver, fireman,
and guard ran back, and found the pieces of the
trolly. But the men—where were they ? Horror I
Must have been caught in the rods of the loco-
motive ! I All three ran to the train again. The
guard caught sight of a shin of beef and some
other meat which had been run over. “ Good
Lord! ’ exclaimed the engine-driver; “it’s a case'
Poor fellow—look! Ugh!! Boo! hoo! hoo!!” Mean-
while, the two fettlers, who jumped clear of the
trolly like greased lightning when they saw the
train coming round the curve, and took to the
bush, now came up. General rejoicing and em-
bracing followed, and the company liquored up
from a bottle of “cabulsher” which hadn’t been
broken in the smash. And, after congratulations,
the two parties went on their respective ways: the
driver to make up for lost time and get away from
the goods train behind him—the fettlers to their
camp, thinking about how long it would bo ere the
inspector came along and “sacked” them.
In Melbourne Punch of 30th August there
are a series of sketches, with explanatory letter-
press, headed “How a Learned Judge made a
Beast of Himself,” and unmistakably referring to
Sir James Martin, who is represented by a wigged
figure in controversy with the S.M. Herald, and
in the last sketch on all-fours with ass’s ears and
braying “ hee-haw,” It is just this sort of black-
guard publication which brings journalism into
disrepute. Neither in the sketches nor the letter-
press is there a gleam of humour or argument.
To say that a learned J udge “ made a beast of him-
self ” is merely to indicate that you are angry with
him, and that circumstances have denied you the
art of argument to explain the grounds of your
annoy ance, and have limited your power of expres-
sion to the scope of a public-house loafer’s voca-
bulary. The Chief Justice of New South Wales is
an able man, and one very hard to encounter in
controversy. Apparently he has been too hard for
Melbourne Punch, since abuse is generally the
resource of a vulgar mind when argument lails.
Melbourne Punch and our imitator in that city
have a good deal to answer for. The latter espe-
cially has done this journal heavy injury, first by
adopting its name, and then by associating with it a
style of writing and paltry gossip yvhich is quite
foreign to our ideas, and for which, nevertheless,
we are constantly being held responsible.
We have already remarked that the late
Sir A P. Burt, Chief Justice of West Australia,
was of the genuine martinet school in law.
Naturally in that land ot isolation and rum h]s
propensities reeciy'ed many a “ nasty jar.” Here is
an instance, and a true one. It was a very impor-
tant case, the litigants being rich landed proprie-
tors from the far North, and the'witnesses, for the
most part, not at all of the Chtsterfleldian school
of politeness. One of these, on oeing calieu,
rolled into the box, slouched hat on, gi-
gantic beard underneath, and stock-whip in
hand. The hat having been dethroned by the
nearest bobby, the Judge fixed his “heagle heye”
on the witness, and sternly asked him it he knew
what he was there for—observing, no doubt, that
his style was anything but “good form.”
“Of course I do,” ingenuously replied the
backblocker, “ I come here to tell the sangui-
nary truth, and I’m blanked if 1 don’t!” “ What?”
cried the astounded Judge, while the crowd, “with
parted lips and straining eyes,” silently waited tne
issue. “Why,” repeated the witness, “I’ve just
come here to tell the d d truth, and I’m d d
if I don’t!” And when the whole court broke into
a roar, ho turned round and Indignantly yelled,
“ What the crimson gehenna are you laughing at ?
Don t you think a bush cove can tell the sangui-
nary truth as well as you blanked towneys ?” He,
however, didn’t get the opportunity to tell the
truth, for the horrified Judge “jugged” him in-
stall ter for a term.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
On Warren Downs station, a young man
named Stewart was gored by a bullock which ran
its horn into his mouth and wounded him terribly,
cutting his tongue almost out by the roots, and
lacerating his mouth and face in a fearful manner,
.... “ Queensland is far ahead of any other known
place in the accommodation, comfort, and variety
of its coach travelling.” So said the gentleman
from the Balonne. “ Variety, certainly,” replied
the man from the south. “ This was the variety
when I travelled there lately. You could book
first, second, or third class; where the roads got
deep fli-st-class passengers had the privilege of
walking on ahead, second-class kept by the horses
to beat them up with long saplings, whilst the
third-class pushed the coach from behind. There
is certainly variety in your Queensland coaching.”
... The Brisbane Daily Leader is dead. In his
valedictory, the editor says that “the Leader was
launched solely to counteract the influence so in-
insidiously exerted by the Courier in the
general election. The Leader proprietors
have lost a few hundreds over the venture, but
there are cases in which it is * more blessed to give
than to receive.’” Mr. Gillies has decided that
Woods’ brake is a “ most valuable invention,” and
the Argus people have gone on a wild debauch
An old woman at Parramatta had her sight re-
stored, after 80 years darkness. She had been born
blind, and it was only last week the cataract Avas
removed. The first thing she saAv Avas a copy of
the Rum, and then she asked for her cataract
back again More aboriginal atrocities reported
from the South Sea Isles. It took Commodore
Wilson much time, and cost him much trouble, to
learn that at Fiji, one planter se\ r ered the lobe of a
man’s ear, (probably to improve his hearing), and
that another forced a girl to eat hot ginger
wrapped in muslin—Goulburn Post Office tower
sports a clock at last. All it wants now is an um-
brella on each side to keep the Avind off. When
the breezes blow, the hands spin round like the
Waggons v. Carts.
How little is known of the great importance of
this subject. Were we to reason with ourselves
more, and stop jumping at conclusions, itAvould
not appear so glaring, and be so easily said of us,
that we are fifty years behind the age of modern
progress.
An English farmer, after a fews years’ settlement
in the State of Iowa, U.S. a., was asked by an Aus-
tralian; “ How did you ever come to give up usc-
ing Carts for Waggons?” “Well, sir,” says the
farmer, “after one year the superiority of Wag-
gons over Carts became so visible, I cannot forget
my thickeadedness not seeing it in a month. I
can now go to market and return comfortably in
a day,—while with the cart, it took me two days,
and hard work at that. Besides, a waggon can be
used for every purpose round the farm, and easier
for horses and men.”
“ Did it not take you some time to learn their
use properly ?”
“Yes; a man that never saw or drove a Waggon,
has to be taught; and it takes some of our new
chums a long time before they can turn quickly,
and change tor different uses. I use my Waggon
yet to go to church, by putting on the box and two
spring seats; and by removing the box, I have a
lumber or timber Waggon using long or short
reaches as required; and with that rack you see
similar to what we used on Cai'ts, I haul nay and
straw. This rack I use for hauling bricks, gravel, or
manure. I have narrow planks for sides and
bottom, which make unloading as easy and quick
as with a dump cart. To me, now, it appears most
barbarous to think of loading poor dumb brutes,
making them carry half (and sometimes more) of
fans of a windmill, or a Good Templar going homo
at 1 a.m., after seeing a man off to Newcastle
— Beddell, late town clerk of Mackay, embezzle-
ment, two years—There was an addled egg in
Sydney, and as there Avas no election on, the
chicken inside got a chance of seeing the world
Avithout passing over a crowded room. It hadja
a good start In life—four legs A Hamilton (Vic.)
squatter Avas; not satisfied Avith his child’s progress
at school. So, instead of removing the lad, he
dropped in upon the teacher and raised lumps on
him as big as a Avater-melon. He had to pay £30
for his morning’s amusement. .About 100labourers
—secured at Malta for 15s. a Aveek without rations!
—’will shortly arrive in Queensland for the Bur-
dekin River plantations —A man writes to the
Tamworth Observer, and asks severely, “ Who
is the liar now ?" A question like this deserves to
bo honestly answered ; and so, having perused both
statements, our candid opinion is there are two
liars in the case—We have to acknowledge the
receipt of a small calf-bound volume entitled
“Nursary Rhymes for Good Children,” by the
Poet Laureate of the Abattoirs. One sample will
be morn than quite sufficient: —
Rub-a-dub-dub,
Throe tramps after grub—
And Avho do you think they were?
The Premi’r, the Lawyer,
And Mining Top Sawyer,
With appetites all on the stir.
Herberton (Q.) has been invaded by an army of
bush rats. Jehovah always provides for country
journalists. ..True. An alligator was shot near
Rockhampton, lately. It measured within a few
inches of twenty feet in length. Inside it Avas a
saddle-strap. A bush missionary was lost in those
parts not long ago. They think of turning the
carcase of the alligator into a chapel; then, as was
the ancient custom, the tomb of the founder of the
chapel will be inside it. A most pious way of using
up alligators—In Adelaide Supreme Court, Judge
AndreAVS distinctly said that he was of opinion
there was nothing to go to the jury, but agreed to
alloAV the Crown Solicitor to proceed, Avith the
startling result that the prisoner was convicted
and sentenced to five years’ hard labour!
the load on their backs, and that unmerciful jar of
the shafts (or trams) as the wheels go into ruts on
the road— 1 cruelty to animals ’ is no name for it.
Look at our beautiful and smooth roads, now, if
we used Carts, they would be continually cut up
into holes, and in muddy weather impassible.”
“ How do you account for that ?”
“ Simply because the load is divided over four
wheels instead of two, and the Waggons run
straight, not corkscrew fashion like Carts, digging
up the roads. Again, with Carts the horse is
allowed to keep the old trail or track; while with
Waggons, should a hole work out in the road, it 1s
straddled, and naturally levels or fills in of itself.
In cities now, and oven small towns, Carts are not
allowed for heavy teaming. By-laws are also
being passed, compelling carriers of heavy goods
to use 4-inch tyres on Waggon wheels.”
“Is this class of Waggon generally used through-
out America ?”
“ Yes; this is about the average size. You would
be surprised how light it runs with a load of a or 3
tons. Competition is very great, and every maker
trys to excel in light running Waggons.”
“ Are there many sold annually ?”
“ Well, out of seven different firms that I know
the smallest of them turns out 10,000 Waggons per
year, one as many as 35,000.”
Seven years ago, Mr. Fleming, of 33and 34 Clar-
ence-street, exhibited the first American farm
Waggon in Sydney. Since that time, ho has
fought hard to Induce our farmers and others to
adopt them. Mr. Fleming now receives regular
shipments, and we learn is having them made to
suit colonial requirements for hauling wool, saw-
logs, lumber, &c., &c. »
Bird, of the Inner Temple, has been admitted to
the N.S.W. bar. His Temple cronies will doubtless
regard him as a bird in the bush....A correspondent
writes:—“ Ours is a Government of the publican,
by the publican, for the publican.”....The Even-
ing Nooze came out with an article on Saturday
last headed: “Defects in our Education.” When
we road that heading, we thought Alfred intended
to talk about himself A hundred mongooses
await shipment for Sydney at Calcutta. The
Government should give orders for the needful
alligators to kill the mongooses, when the latter,
after exterminating our rabbits, shall have spread
all over the country, and become the curse and
terror of the land—They captured a seal 9ft long
at the Barwon Heads, Vic., last week. The Free-
masons believe it is the Seal of Solomon... .At
Cannibal Creek, Palmer River, a man was arrested
for profane language. Nearly the whole popu-
lation turned out and swore hard against the
charge. Verdict, acquittal... .The other Sunday
night Inspector Pewtress, of Melbourne, got into a
“caf5” and found that furniture was scarce; two
young ladies were sociably sitting on the knees of
two young gentlemen. Now this was something
like a Sawbath. Publican lined 40s Experience
gained in bushranging can even be turned to
honest advantage. Power, after his release, will
be invaluable, “bailing-up” cows for his bene-
factress... .A number of old Ballarat pioneers have
formed an association termed the Victorian Gold
Discoverers’ Society of 1853-3, for relief and
benefit—Alexander Bourke has just died at
Meredith, the old “Green Tent” 30 miles from
Geelong, aged 103....They don’t bet much on the
libel law up at Louth, but when a citizen feels
aggrieved he delicately states his case in the
Liberal thus:—“ All dogs or sluts unregistered
who are slinging ink, and forgetting to put signa-
tures to their scurvy insinuations, will be shot.
M.O.R.T”... Urong, a Sydney Chinaman, just fined
£11 for smuggling £3 10s. worth of opium. He
says he doesn’t much mind the fine—what
troubles him is the puns of the country editors.
A lady who was a passenger by mail train gave
birth to a child between Goulburn and Towrang,
Jane Roberts sued Goodchap to recover £300
damages for injuries sustained while in the act of
alighting from a tram. The jury said her negli-
gence contributed to the mishap, and found
for the defendant “I wish to respectfully
draw your attention, sir, to a little matter
of injustice,” said a Civil servant to his
superintendent a few days ago. “ Well, what is
it?” growled the supe. “I do exactly the same
work as Biudendarter, and yet he receives £300 a
year while I only get £300. Is that fair?” “De-
cidedly not,” replied -the just boss; and then he
arranged to reduce Bludendarter’s salary to £200,
and clapped the spare century on his own From
door of a store out west, 107 graves can be
counted. They belong to swagmen and shearers
who came to the house (then a “ pub.”) with good
health and negotiable cheques. The only “ change”
they received was from the quick to the dead.
Then the license was cancelled, and the proprietor
widely respected, thinks of running for Parliament!
— Lighthouses in the Straits of Sunda knocked
asunder by earthquake —Fifteen years ago, Mr
Ti Foon, of Ballarat, brought a bumble-footed,’
wall-eyed bride from China. Her travelling ex-
penses came to £111, the marriage fee was £10, and
it cost £120 to furnish a cage to keep this Celestial
canary in. Then more Ti-Foons came along, and
now the old man, who fancies he is a Java earth-
quake, is carefully housed in a lunatic asylum.
The steerage passengers of the Pathan drank £331
worth of whisky on the voyage out. More lifting
power to their elbows:—
All dear Erin’s sons,
Generous, brave, and frisky;
Qualities they owe
To their love for whisky.
....The Young Women’s Christian Association
have opened a “Resting Home” near Penrith.
The Young Men’s C. A. should follow suit with a
ditto Home in the same locality. Then hey I for
picnics up the mountains....Good appointments.
Bathurst High School, Mr. Stephenson, B.A., late
master of All Saints’ College, Bathurst, to bo head
master; Miss Everett, winner of the Fairfax prize
at the senior University examination, 1875, to be
head mistress : Goulburn High School, Mr. A.
Davis, B.A., Melbourne University, to be head
master; Mrs. Vyner, to be head mistress
A poor old man was found drowned up North
lately. His remains were buried in a blanket.
The local parson refused to perform the burial
rites over them on the assumption that the case
was one of suicide. Poor remains—poor parson!
— Out West, a Government butcher is included
in the now J.P. list. This is, no doubt, in fulfil-
ment of the old tradition—“ Judge of Pigs.”
In America it is proposed to make the postmen
wear knee-breeches. This comes of allowing Oscar
Wilde into the country. Should the movement
extend to Sydney, a cry of “ Pad them shanks ’
will become popular with the larrikins.... Ho Ying,
a young Chinese, is about to be appointed head-
teacher of a country school in Victoria. It seems
he is very clever. He carried off the principal
prizes at a competitive examination once, it is
not stated how far he carried them before he was
caught. But this is only our little joke.
• • •
The career of Dr. Hathaway, of Philadel-
phia, abortionist and child-murderer, an old man
past eighty years, according to the testimony,
caps the climax in this kind of horribly repulsive
business. He has been seat up for seven years. His
parish will have to elect a fresh churchwarden.
The member for Brighton was reclining on
“ the real M‘Coy,” nursing his bruises after that
huggy tumble, and wondering where In thunder
his soul would have gone to if he had not come
down in a sitting posture, when the representative
of the Universe followed “Mary” in. “Well,
sir ?” cried the statesman. “ I’m the Press, sir,”
said a dapper little lad with his face freshly
scrubbed, and a notebook under his arm the size
of a Family Bible. “ What d’ye want ?” cried the
suffering statesman, pressing the lower part of his
back between his hands; “ what d’ye want ?” The
little dandy flashed a diamond ring in the air,
nourished a silver pencil, and proceeded to open
the quarto. “ What shall I tell a panting public,
sir ?’ T asked the little dandy. The statesman closed
his eyes, and, with a sigh that floated the little
dandy down the beeswaxed stairs, cried, “ I’m
Bent.” The paragraph in the Universe read:
“ Our representative visited the member for
Brighton yesterday. The accident has affected the
honorable gentleman in such a way that his body
is a little bent; but after a few days’ rest he will,
it is sincerely hoped, regain the upright position
which his old friends so much admired.”
Farmer of the Period:— “Why don’t you send to Fleming, Clarence-street, Sydney,
for a Waggon and set of Harness ? You are killing yourself and wife; I go to
town and return now in a day.”
Farmer of the Last Century “I’ll do it if I have to go without a shirt, I have been
two days on the road.”
WAGGON VERSUS DRAY.


The Rev. J, Hargrave raises the preposter-
ous notion that Bishop Barker shortened his days
by his efforts to raise the Church Building Loan
IcNind* Now, if ever there was a bishop who took
life easily, that bishop was Dr. Barker. Some par-
sons and prelates, like individuals in other branches
of business, overwork themselves; but, fas a rule,
the cleric doesn’t task himself too severely, though
he delights in making his flock —especially the
female portion thereof—believe that his zeal and
exertions are making a blessed martyr of him.
Archbishop Purcell, who died last July, in
the 84th year of his age, was the oldest R.C. prelate
in the U.S. He constituted himself a bank, and
invited the people under his ecclesiastical care to
trust their funds to his keeping, promising to pay
them interest on the same and to return the prin-
cipal on demand. This was in violation of the
following Injunction of the Baltimore Council:
“ We reprove and condemn the custom of leaving
money on deposit with priests upon the under-
standing that it shall be returned with interest at
a fixed rate.” His bank broke, and at the time of
hjs death bis indebtedness, including interest,
exceeded £800,000, due to some 10,000 depositors.
When anyone gets drowned at Rooky
Mouth on the Clarence, the police wait until the
body floats. Then they tow it along to the busiest
part of the town, and tether it to one of the
wharves, where it bobs serenely in full gaze of the
passers-by, until the evening. Then they drag it
out and hold their inquest. No doubt it would be
rare sport for the local Dogberrys were some
highly nervous woman to go into fits through the
shock caused by coming suddenly on a disgusting
cadaver with its nose eaten off by fish.
Now that the churches have had time to
hit back, the scales may be brought out. The
whole controversy between the judge and the
divines seems to have been merely a weak revival
of the old barren contention between nominalism
and realism. Not a hair of any problem of life has
been tuimed. The countryman who swallowed
the prescription instead of the medicine will do it
again, and live as long and as happily as if ho had
known better. Now, if the judge had told him to
take neither prescription nor medicine, his locus
standi as a reformer would have been definite.
But, as it is, he has only thrummed a twcedledeeia
front of the orchestra of tweedledum.
An early settler.—Cain.
The judgment of the Supreme Court in
the contempt case sounded like the burial-service
read over a corpseless coffin. The beginning and
middle of it was more solemn than the sentence of
death; the end of it was as funny as a death-
warrant read out to a shoulder of mutton. All
along, the Chief Justice shovelled fire into the
furnace with one hand, and poured hot water into
the boiler with the other. And when he came to
pronounce the line, the bottom of the boiler fell
out.
A well-known magistrate in West Aus-
tralia had a genial habit of cultivating the “ jim-
jams.” One nappy morn, this jolly magnate rather
alarmed the modest rural Court by taking his seat
arrayed only in his night-gown. The sergeant
bustled him quietly off, and he—the magistrate,
not the sergeant—was shortly after rewarded with
a pension. It was in the same happy land that a
prominent officer in the Government service was
hustled inside on his way to office, arrayed in all
the glory of a silky bell-topper, dress coat, spot-
less shirt-front, and gloves, dazzling boots—but
minus his inexpressibles I “Jim-jams” again, of
course.
The Port Douglas Divisional Board must
be a wealthy corporation. They called for tenders
for clearing a bridle track, and accepted a
man’s tender, on condition that he didn’t begin
the work for two months in order to give them
time to rake up the money. The tender was
under one hundred pounds. Though this board is
not wealthy, it seems at least to be conscientious.
It looks ahead, and when did our aldermen ever
do that? Yet it must bo much pleasanter for a
great many of them to look ahead than to look
back.
It’s not every candidate for Parliamentary
honours who’s so plain spoken as Tom Buckland,
who contested a seat im the Queensland Parlia-
ment. Said Tom in his address:—“I have thought
it my duty to come forward in the interests of this
district in particular, and think that my having a
large amount of capital Invested in it will bo a
sufficient guarantee that, if elected, I shall do my
utmost to forward its advancement, as well as that
of the whole colony.” A capital notion, neatly ex-
pressed, and meaning, as the O’Kane still more
neatly puts it, that Tom will do his utmost to for-
ward the advancement and increment of his own
capital.
D1X80N AND SONS’ NEW TOBACCO WORKS, CORNER ELIZABETH AND PARK STREETS, SYDNEY


W. H. PALING,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Pianofortes,
Pianofortes,
Pianofortes.
By the following’ renowned English, French, and
German Makers:—
Erard
Pleyel
Collard & Collard
Broadwood & Sons
Klrkman
Soufleto
Trost & Co.
Llpp & Sohn
Aucher
Eonisch
Hundt & Sohn
Bluthner
Steinway
Schiedmayer
Challen & Son
Ecke
Elcke
Paling & Co.
A. Bord
Berden & Co.
Herz
Schwechten
Schwander
Forster
And numerous other Manufacturers.
ORGANS by Bell & Co., Palace Organ Company;
Waters & Co., Pelochert, and others.
Bell & Co’s. Celebrated Organs, besides other
Awards, gained First and Special Prize over all
others at the recent Sydney Exhibition.
HARMONIUMS by Alexander & Co., etc.
A Splendid Stock of MUSIC always on hand
PACING & CO.’S PIANOS have taken SEVERAL
PRIZES at the LATE AUSTRALIAN INTER-
NATIONAL EXHIBITIONS.
W. H. PALING,
Pianoforte. Organ & Harmonium Galleries,
356 GEGRGE STREET
EMIN
harvest^
CHAMPION
AND
(TV
lbUr
MILLS
MILLS
wm
■
gmmu
cJRJMN
FLEMING’S Carriage and Machinery Repositort
22 and 28 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MOULTON'S
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON'S
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and us
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit)-
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price Is. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
MaskT.
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT.-This favourite brand
of Stout selected with great care from the
t ? e * t of the brewings of the celebrated firm ox
Art hur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
C8T, notbe excelled, To be procured everywhere-
oA TTELL k CO.. Bole Agents.
315 George Street.
A few of our undertakings MOST SUCCESS
FULLY carried out, among which will be found
the LARGEST, MOST DIFFICULT, and MOST
the LARGEST, MOST ULFblUU UT, ana Muni
RESPONSIBLE events that have taken place since
the opening of this establishment.
His Worship the MAYOR’S PICNIC, for 450, at
Clontarf.
His Worship the MAYOR’S BALL, for 1600, Exhi-
bition Building, at which his Worship, John
Harris, entertained their R.H.’s PBlNO®S AL-
BERT and GEORGE, EARL CLAN WILLIAM,
and the Officers of the Detached Squadron.
MASONIC BALL. English Constitution, for 1358,
Exhibition Building.
MASONIC BALL, N.8.W. Constitution, at Town
Hall, Sydney.
Visit of their R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Lithgow Valley Mines and Zigzag.
Dinner 4 la Basse, for 60, in Government Palace
Dining Car while travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000 SCHOOL CHIL-
DREN— re Queen’s Statue Demonstration—under
VERY SHORT NOTICE, only receiving the
order at 2.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot at 13.30
p.m. the following day.
V islt of THEIR R.H.’S PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Captain Cook’s Landing, south side
of Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon and refresh-
ment, for 100, under VERY SHORT NOTICE, re-
ceiving order at 8.3* p.m., to be ready on the spot
at 1 p.m. following day.
The LADY MAYORESS’ RECEPTIONS, Town
Hall.
The UNION CLUB BACHELOR’S BALL, at Exhi-
bition Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE WINDBYEK.
The Barristers' Dinner to JUDGE INNB8.
Dinner A Ui Basse at St. Paul’s College, for 150 Mem-
bers of the CBURCH OF ENGLAND SYNOD.
Dinner A la Basse to the INTERCOLONIAL R1 FI E
TEAM*, Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at HAWKE8
BURY RACES, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at RAND-
WICK RACES, in Grand Stand.
The CONSULAR DINNER, in our new Banquet
Room.
ARMIDALB RAILWAY Demonstrations. Ban
400 :*M A YOB'S BALL, 000, same evening
and CITIZEN’S BALL, "
ing.
n/VLUJ, uw, oauiu o v uuiujs
500, the following even*
ALBURY-WODONGA RAILWAY DEMONSTRA-
TION —Grand Government Banquet for 1016
at Albury. Grand Ball. *00, following night.
Children’s feast, 1184, the following afternoon
and evening. Also, Breakfasts, Dinners, Teas,
and Suppers, in Government Dining Car, to
Hut Bxcbluhncy Lord Augustus Loftus, the
Ministry, and Ms.P., while travelling to and
from Banquet, Ac., &c.
Numerous Banquets and Entertainments by HIS
WORSHIP THE MAYOR at Town Hall, &o.
Numerous Dinners 4 la Basse in the N.8.HV
GOVERNMENT PALACE DINING CAR, while
travelling by rail, on account of the GOVERN
MENT.
Together with a numerous lot of Private Dinners.
Feasts, Weddings, Garden Parties, Balls. Tee
Meetings Land Sales, Suppers, Picnics, Fishing
Excursions, &c.
CADET EXAMINATION, SURVEY OFFICE.
ET Is hereby notified that an Examination of
Candidates for Employment as Cadets in the
partment of the Surveyor-General will be held
sarly in November next. The exact date, when
ixed, will be duly notified. Candidates must have
attained the age of 16 years, or they will not be
dlglble for examination.
Intending competitors ean obtain further in-
ormatlon upon applying by letter to the Surveyor-
leneral, or personally to the Secretary and
lasbier.
(Signed) P. F. ADAMS,
Surveyor-General.
Surveyor-General’s Office,
Sydney, 23nd June, 1883.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
ST 808 GEORGE STREET.
tiLoi
yi)
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
8CH N A P P S.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
W* MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
■noke a decent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
with a moderate price.
HEYOE, TODRRAN & CO. p
YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
WOOL SALES, 1883.
MY very numerous constituents, and all in-
terested in the wool trade, will please take
notice that my unrivalled
NEW WAREHOUSE
AT
Darling: Harbour Railway Terminus
Wdl be READY FOR THIS SEASON, and that I
shall be prepared to do the fullest justice to the
LARGEST as well as the SMALLEST Clips.
Bach lot will be carefully Weighed and Valued
as soon as received, weights and valuations being
submitted to owners so as to hear from them be-
fore sale if necessary.
Owing, now, to the attendance of Foreign
Buyers, our market Is equal to the London Market
—a point well worth remembering. Any Bank or
Firm holding liens on wool will, if asked, allow
owners to send their wool to me; and any For-
warding Agents, or Managers of Railways or
Steam Companies, will receive and forward Wool
or ether Produce on my account, and pay carriage
or other expenses.
ALL PROCEEDS OP SALE will be available, as
heretofore, at ANY TIME after sales ; or AD-
VANCES, small or large, made before sales are
effected.
SALES of LIVE STOCK, TALLOW, HIDES.
GRAIN, SUGAR, and every sort of Produce will
also meet with the greatest possible care.
JOHN BRIDGE.
tm
COMFORTABLE TEETH
The use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are thxee kinds, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the Yellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to persons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
gums,decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
drops in a little water to rinse the mouth dally,
they will not only never suffer again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
ee that each Label bean* the name, “ Wilcox and
Co., 239 Oxford-street, London."
OE
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate relief in
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis,
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them invaluable, as they instantly check the
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
see that each box bears the name of “ Wilcox ana
Co., 339 Oxford-street, London."
THE HIGH SCHOOL, HOBART, TASMANIA.
Rector: The Rev. R. D. Poulett-Harris, M.A.,
Trinity College, Cambridge. Headmaster: Mr. Ed.
Edmondson, Christ Church, Oxford. The salubrity
of the Tasmanian climate, combined with the high
standard maintained by the Council of Education,
has brought the collegiate advantages of the colony
prorainent.lv under the notice of Australian
parents. The High School occupies the head place
in the degree lists. It surpasses all colonial educa-
tional establishments In the healthiness and beauty
of its situation, which is upon a slope bordering
the Queen’s Domain, and in the vicinity of the
Cricket Ground and Saltwater Baths. The T.S.N.
Co. issue return tickets to scholars at single fares.
Prospectus and terms may be obtained ffom Mr.
JAMBS E. CUNNINGHAM, 130 Elizabeth-street,
Sydney, or from the Rector.
Artificial teeth on Gold, vulcanite, &c.,
made on the most approved modern prin-
ciples. Warranted to combine fit, comfort, and
durability, with perfectly natural appearance. All
dental operations performed with skill. Painless
extractions. Teeth stopped. Charges strictly
moderate. MARSHALL BROTHERS, Surgeon
Dentists, 106 Market-street, near Hyde Park.
MAMIM'S HOTEL,
THE FAVOURITE HOTEL IN GOULBUKN.
J>iU BLIC NOTICE.
.1. TURNER ROBINSON k CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
K STA BUSH ED 1861,
late 482 and 484,
REMOVED TO
4 7* GEORGE STREET
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
Ob, TWO DOORS NORTH OF OLD SHw_
W. Howard Smith and Sons,
STRUTH’S WHARF and NEW WHARF
(Foot of King Street).
Offices: 42 KING STREET.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
* To arrive.
W. HOWARD SMITH and SONS,
43 King Street, Sydney.
Emil Paterson,
ARCHITECT AND CIVIL ENGINEER,
No. 4 PITT STREET.
I
tsws
Elitists
33 COLLEGE STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY
ARTIFICAL TEETH on the most approved Eng-
lish Principles, Fitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastica-
tion, Natural Appearance, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping. Scaling, and Extractions skilfully
performed
Bad Legs, Constitutional
Diseases, &c.
MEDICATED VAPOUR BATHS.
For those diseases where noxieus drugs adminis-
tered through the stomach impair the constitution
of the unhappy recipient, and in many eases fail to
cure,
FACTS ARE STUBBORN THINGS.
H. W. COOPER eradicates the most Inveterate
oases of disease, without medicine internally, In
less than a sixth of the time required for success
by any other treatment
Re i ief from Rheumatic Pains.
To Mr. Cooper.—I can scarcely find words to
thank you for the remarkable sure you have
effected in my case. I have suffered with bad legs
tor over 10 years ; I have tried many doctors, and
taken everything advertised to cure, but I grew
worse, and slok of trying. My age is over 00.1 am
very stout, and, keeping a shop, am compelled to
walkabout. My friends advised me to g<> to you.
I now wish I had gone at first,—I should not have
suffered so long, and it would have been pounds In
my pocket. My legs are both healed up, and I am
quite well. If anyone doubts the genuineness of
your treatment, let them come to me, or any of
my friends who knew how I suffered. I may add
I i nproved fast from the first day I visited you.
Mrs. Black,
August 4th, 1883. 317 Elizabeth-street.
To Mr. Cooper.—I wish to make known the bene-
fit of your treatment in my ease. I had bad legs
for two years, and could get ne relief anywhere ;
you cured them in less than a month.
R. T. Eastway (Eastway Brothers',
George-street.
H. W. C. has voluntary testimony that would fill
a newspaper, and he has not been in the colony
twelve months.
340 CROWN STREET, opposite Reservoir.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a Special
MEETING of the Metropolitan Licensing
Court will be holden at noon on THURSDAY, the
13th day of September, 1883, at the Water Police
Court, Phillip and Albert Streets, Sydney.
P. C. LUCAS, C.P.S.
James Carroll,
FREE SELECTORS’ & MINERS’ LAND
AGENT,
WENTM ORTH HOUSE, CHURCH HILL,
SYDNEY.
under
tow
free
O.P.
Agent,
MOUSTACHE AND WHISKERS.
Hoyd't Beard KHzir did this, and will do it
on eltb«r bald beat} or bare face. ’ Forces
heavy Moustache ip from‘2 to Vw««ke and
never (ails. 20,000 yoi/ng to *m already wear
full beard, .-hazing used I. to 3 No
injury. ’easily apphod. certain in ifflset.
Packets Is. 6d. each, 3for 3s; fid., post paid,
. observation. Addrass.FmANK Doualab,
O.V Sydney, K.-8.W.
“WHAT IS A SECRET?”
SOMETHING told to everybody in a whisper.
Please tell all your friends this Secret, that
thev will study both “Comfort and Economy” in
having their supply of WOOD and COAL from
HOTTING & CO.,
COAL AND FUEL MERCHANTS,
Cowper’s Wharf,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO BAY.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £100,000.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT
on fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods: FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £60 In the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WAREHAM, Manager.


ARNOLD'S BALSAM UK' llUltLliULJ.N D.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very sale and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief;
a small bottle often cures. Ask for ‘vAknold's”
and get it; spurious imitations are sometimes
offered.
Nowhere perhaps has the dentist's art obtameo
such high excellence as in Sydney. Certainly we
are in no sense behind any other city. Visitors to
Sydney might, to test this, visit the establishment
of Messrs. Adolphe Gabriel and Company, lb Wyn-
yard Square, two doors from Pfahlert’s Hotel
Here the manufacture of every essential in the
profession is carried on. At the rear of the surgeri
is a compact little factory where all the requisites
for supplying every dental defect in the human
mouth are made. Messrs. Gabriel and Co. (whose
only address is as above) are always pleased to
show their specimens of artificial teeth to those
interested. There being two Arms of the same
name in the Square, patients will oblige by paying
particular attention to the Christian name, Adolphe,
and the number, is, two door: IrOHJ Pfahlc il'l
Hotel.-VX. ’ * f
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
IFe shall be glad to have this index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general.']
RACING.
A. Spring September 6, 8.
Bathurst J.cT September 13,14.
Albert Gold Fields J.C September 19, 30.
Northern J.C September 19, 31.
Ballarat T. and H.C September 31, 23.
Dubbo J.C... September 21, 32.
Goulburn T.C September 26, 38.
Narrabri J.C October 3, 4.
Sydney Turf Club Octobers.
Hawkes Bay (N.Z.) J.C. Spring October 9.
Victoria Amateur T.C — October 13, 30.
Wollongong T.C October 17,18.
Victoria R.C. Spring November 3,6,8.10.
Canterbury (N.Z.) J.C November 6, 7. 8.
Parramatta J.C November 9.
Clarence River J.C. (Amateur) November 9.
Auckland (N.Z.) R.C. Spring November 10.
Murrumbidgee T.C November 21, 33, 23.
Narandera J.C November 39, 30.
Liverpool J.C December 22.
Auckland (N.Z.) R.C. Summer.. Dec. 36, January 1,3.
Sydney T.C... January 36.
Tasmanian R.C. (Summer) February 13,14,15.
AQUATICS
M.R.C. Annual Regatta September 38.
Sydney Amateur Canvas Dingy Club (Formal
Opening Season) September.
Green (S.A.) v. Wood (Vic.), at Melbourne..8ept. 39
New South Wales Association Regatta . October 6.
Double Bay Regatta October 37.
Sydney Amateur Canvas Dingy Club 1st Class
Race October 13.
Balmain Regatta Novembers.
Krug Champagne Cup ' November —.
ATHLETICS.
B. Murphy v. W. Franks, mile walk. ..September 6.
Eastern Suburbs Amateur Athletic Club. . Sept. 15.
Sydney Amateur Athletic Club September 33.
wallsend Athletic Club Meeting November 9.
Bathurst Sheffield Handicap November 9.
PIGEON SHOOTING.
Wagga Handicap September 14.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MENS.
72 entries for the Wagga Pigeon Shooting
Handicap.
J. Walsh, of Euroa (Vic.), has purchased
Calamia, the Melbourne Cup winner.
The Auckland (N.Z.) racing Club give
away £4595 in added money next season.
O’Leary has accepted Raynors’ challenge
for a six days’ walk, to come olf in Adelaide.
At the Coal City, the Sydney Grammar
School footballers defeated the Newcastle Rugbys
by 6 points to 4.
At the Northern Counties’ championship
sports Tow Ray, of Ulverstone, once more cleared
lift. 4in. with the pole.
On Saturday afternoon, J. M‘In tosh and
George Davis raced in skiffs from Pyrmont Bridge
round Goat Island and back, for £20. Davis won
by three lengths.
The Hawkesbury Race Club has fixed »rd
and 5th April, 1854, tor their regular Autumn
meeting. The late meeting netted £350, and nettled
the “books” considerably.
For Mr. Edwards’ special edification we
give the best on record 6 days, walk 531 miles in
138h. 48m. 30s., made by G. Littlewood, at Sheffield,
England, March 7 to 11, 1883.
Wm. Steele, who was recently defeated
by Wm. Cummings, in America, states he has re-
covered from his attack of quinsey, and would
like to run Cummings again for £300.
A new Kentucky law fixes the legal distance
between a church and the nearest saloon at a mile.
It is therefore to be expected that some of the best
time on record tor a single mile will come from
Kentucky.
The Victorian Football Association has
proposed a conference of footballers from the
various colonies should be held in Melbourne
during Cup week, to consider revision of football
laws.
At a meeting of the volunteer officers, held
in Melbourne, it was decided to shortly hold
another military and sports meeting, the last
affair of the kind having been very successful.
Our men ought to follow suit.
At Wollongong, a handball match, for £5
a side, 31 up, came off between A. Beatson, jun., of
Wollongong, and J. Blackburn, who is stated to
have held, about two years ago, the position of
champion of England. The local man won, with a
score of 21 to 18.
Big attendance at the Northumberland
Football Sports, at West Maitland, on Saturday-
last. J. Ogle won the All-comers Handicap ; Nash
won the Quarter-mile Handicap ; Bussell the Mile
Handicap ; and Clonmell won the Coursing Match,
held on the racecourse.
George Robertson (the Maori) has accepted
Joseph Strong’s challenge to wrestle, Border style,
for the Caledonian Society’s Belt and champion-
ship and £50 a side. The match will take place six
or seven weeks hence, on the Society’s grounds at
Kensington (N.Z.)
Bryan Jordan, of Cardiff, Wales, is a
pugilist of note, and is said to be the coming cham-
pion. He stands 5 ft. 11 in., and weighs 190 Tb. He
recently beat three men at one time in a contest at
Jaynes’ Colliery, and two of tnem required medical
aid. He has been sent for from America.
At the Monmouth Park (U.S.) race meet-
ing, old Parole won a mile and a half handicap,
carrying 9st. At the Sheepshead meeting, he won
another mile and a half handicap in 3m. and
at the same meeting Eole, owned by Mrs. Langtry’s
“ mash,” Fred Gebhard, carried 9st. and won the
Stirrup Cup of two miles and a furlong in 3m. 59s.
Inspector-General Fosbery thinks that a
man who would ride a horse forty miles in three
hours, would be guilty of the greatest cruelty.
There are scores of his own troopers who’ve done
the distance in the time, yet we’ve never heard of
his prosecuting them for cruelty to animals.
Mr. Fosbery apparently knows a great deal about
office routine.
Adelaide Races, 1st September, Lord Clyde
defeated Melissa hy two lengths in the Hurdle
Race, Gawler 3rd; Dick Hatteraiek won the Derby
easily from Sardius, Bis Bis 3rd; Helene beat
Broker by a length for the Plate, Sandal 3rd ;
Hawthorn made an easy win of the Selling Race,
Cardinal 2nd, Victoria 3rd ; and Luna won the
Handicap, Shylock 2, Childe Harold 3.
The international rifle match at Wimbledon
commenced on July 31. The firing at the 800 yards
range was completed by 1 o’clock. The Americans
scored 340 points to the British team’s 330. Up to
that time the average for the two days was:—
Americans, 1424; British, 1400. The scores at 900
yards showed the Americans, 263; British, 397.
This made the aggregate at the end of the 900
yards’ shooting Americans, 1687; British, 1697.
The British team won the match by 45 points. The
grand totals wereBritish, 1951; Americans, 1906.
Says a Yankee exchange :—Des Moines
boasts of a jumper who, it is claimed, can Jump
14ft. in a single standing jump. The athlete
who is credited with accomplishing this remark-
able feat rejoices in the name of John H. Bancroft.
There is not the least doubt but that Bancroft cao
jump 14ft. 8%n., spirit level, but it is our impres-
sion that Bancroft is sailing under false colours,
and that he is no less a personage than Geo. W.
Hamilton, of Fredonla, N. Y., the champion jumper,
who jumped 14ft. 5%n., spirit level, in a single
standing jump, and who can, whenever necessary,
cover the distance Bancroft is credited with ac-
complishing at Des Moines.
At the Aus ralnn Coursing Club’s closing
meeting, on Thursday last, the Ladies’ Bracelet
fell to Mrs. W. B. Rounsevell ns Hon. W. M‘Cul-
looh s r w p Miss Rosey, by Chester—Rosey Fawn,
who beat Mrs. J. J. Taylor ns Mr. Taylor’s b w d
Tom King, by Tom Popp, r—'Tomboy, and won the
stake. Mr. R. Chirnside’s bk w d Werribee Sha-
dpw, by Bashful Joe—Ruby, and the Hon. W.
M Cullooh's f b p Match Girl, by Chester —Casta
Diva, divided the Norwood Plate’Stakes; and Mrs.
W. Bailey ns bk w b p Ballarat Star, by Prince
Jamie—Cambrian Lass, beat Miss Chirnside ns Mr.
R. Chirnside’s bk w b Werribee Squaw, by Rebel-
lion —Ready Money, and won the Ladles’ Purse.
A curious wager was recently won in
Germany. Herr Schultz undertook to ride on a
bicycle from Frankfort-on-the-Main to Hamburg
within three and a half days The distance is by
rail about 350 English miles, and somewhat more by
road. The bicyclist started from Frankfort on
Wednesday, June 6, at noon, rode ten hours every
day, resting in the meantime, and arrived in Ham-
burg on Sunday morning, 10, early, wit hout being
one whit the worse for his exertion. The weather
was beautiful during the tour, the only inconveni-
ence suffered being from the heat, which induced
Herr Schultz to ride from five to ten o’cloek in
the morning and from four to nine o’clock in the
evening, resting during the sunny hours. The
rider, clad in a light grey suit, carried all necessa-
ries with him in a specially-constructed ease
attached to the bicycle.
In Saturday last, the A.J.C. had a flue,
though cold, day for the opening of their Spring
meeting. Mr. William Gannon operated on the
bunting, as Mr. Rouse did not rouse himself in
time to catch the train, and was consequently left
behind lamenting. Ontario, ridden by Corrigan,
defeated Basilisk by a couple of lengths for the
Hurdle Race, Belle Brandon a bad third. For the
Trial Stakes, Bristol beat the favourite, Olga, easily,
by two lengths; Boscowen, half a length away,
third. Five saddled up for the Derby: Kaipara,
Kingsdale, and Le Grand came into the straight in
a bunch, but Kaipara soon died off, and Le Grand,
when called upon, drew right away from Kings-
dale, and won with ease by some three lengths;
Copra, four lengths away, third. Masquerade won
the Epsom Handicap, two lengths away from
Ascot; Stockdale third. First I lemon appropriated
the Spring Stakes, Sardonyx second, Pell Mell third;
and Silver Arrow finished the day’s sport by win-
ning the Welter Handicap from end to end, Albury
second, Bayard third.
Says an American paper:—At the Manual
Training School, St. Louis, on June 14, the O’Fallen
Boxing Club gave a first-class show. The feature
of the morning’s entertainment was the friendly
meeting between Frank and George Williams, aged
respectively seven and six years, and sons of
Secretary Wm. H. Williams, of the police depart-
ment. At the request of the teachers and prin-
cipals the little fellows gave a boxing exhibition
which was calculated to impress the other children
with the nobleness of the manly art, and which
afforded the greatest amusement to the audience.
Four rounds were fought by the little brothers
with all the science and grace of old-time sluggers.
The first round concluded with a grand rally, when
the miniature Sullivans, after a li\ el> session of
slugging, took a minute’s rest. After some more
graceful sparring, the second round ended with a
“back-heel” by George who was checked by his
antagonist dividing the honors. In the third round
George cross-buttocked Prank, and the match
concluded with a “suit in chancery, or hug,”
which was vociferously applauded.
Miss Agnes Beckwith, sister of Willie Beck-
with, the English champion, attempted on June
30 to swim from Sandy Hook to Rockaway Beach
(U.S.), the estimated distance being twenty miK-s.
She made a plucky attempt to accomplish the feat,
but through the stupidity of those who managed
the affair, she failed when she had covered eighteen
miles of the course, and had to abandon the task
five miles from Rockaway. Before sue reached
this point the tide had changed, and her husband
and her brother insisted on her leaving the water.
The following are some of Agnes’ performances:—
She swam from Battersea Bridge to Greenwich Pier,
on the Thames, England, July 5,1875 (ten miles), in
3h 43m. On July 17,1878, she swam twenty miles on
the Thames in 6h 25m, without assistance. On
August 25,1879, defeated Miss Saigeinan, swimming
two miles in Ih 42m 33s. On September 18,1880, she
swam six days with five rests, amounting to 37m.
80s. On September 22, 1879, Miss Suigemau defeated
her at Hastings, In a three-mile race. The winner
swam the distance in 3h 9m 47J4s, making the best
time on record.
Hanlan made a ridiculous show of Ross in
their four-mile race, and won by exactly a quarter
of a »ije, it) 37 mio, 7$ sec.—the fastest on record
William Edwards, Esq., begs to announce,
in a Melbourne paper, the receipt of the sum of
£300 from S. V. Winter, Esq., “being the full amount
of the stakes in the late walking-match, between
Mr. O’Leary and himself.” Of course no one
could for a single instant doubt that the statement
is one that bristles with truth, and is enveloped in
integrity. It has been, perhaps, our misfortune to
be somewhat sceptical in certain matters, but not
even our enemies can accuse us of not knowing
the professional pedestrain in that light in which
he so luminously shines. Certain ill-disposed in-
dividuals have exhibited a tendency to impugn the
Integrity of sawdust worriers. They have called
these wondrous walking-matches, gate-money
speculations; they have said that the stakes were
all bogus, and the result a sham. In all this
“ William Edwards, Esq.,” and Mr. O’Leary. ,why
this distinction?) have our siucerest sympathy.
Indeed, it seems to be the misfortune of these
pedestrian gentlemen to be in want constantly of
that gentle commoditv. A more libelled lot you
could hardly find, unless it be those chivalrous
competitors whose flashing sculls so frequently on
Saturday afternoons plough tiie waters of Port
Jackson. And while we were convinced ourselves
of the genuineness of the Melbourne contest, we
are sure that the announcement we have partly
quoted, published relative to the receipt of the
stakes by William Edwards, Esq., will satisfy the
minds of even the most cynical.
Another distinguished American may
probably visit Australiashortly. William Muldoon,
known in > ankee wrestling circles, as the “solid
man,” has sent the following challenge to “Pro-
fessor” Miller, through the columns of the Mel-
bourne Sportsman “ I will wrestle Professor
Miller Graeco-Homan for $1000 a-side, either in
America (any place he may choose, San r rancisco
or New York preferred), or in any part of Austra-
lasia he pleases (Melbourne or Sydney preferred).
If he comes to America 1 will allow $200 for ex-
penses, or will accept the same amount if he wants
me to come to Australia.” it appears there is bad
blood between the pair. Miller says he defeated
the “ solid man ” three times, and the latter says
he’s another. «'e are glad to hear the men are not
too friendly, as, should they ‘ wrastle ” in Austra-
lia, although the affair is sure to be a big “ draw,”
we are likely to see a good rough and tumble for
our “sugar.” We won’t give any opinion as to the
qualifications of the pair, but we think the “solid
man ” can give the “ Professor ” a shade of a start
in yarn spinning. He tells a story to the effect that
he gave a wrestling exhibition in Detroit last
winter, and that ttjc oe*t night Moody and Sankey
for four miles with a turn. The Canadian, as usual,
stopped to take several drinks out of the river.
This is one point Laycock will have on the Ameri-
can sculler, should he meet the invincible in Aus-
tralia, Hanlan can’t stop for a drink out of the
Parramatta. When the Champion drew up to the
referee’s boat, the sight of CourtnCy acted upon
him like a rCd rag on a bull, and he cried out
Send out that big fellow, and I’ll make an exhi-
bition of him.” In the evening Hanlan and Court-
ney met in head-quarters, and a bad-tempered
verbal row followed. Hanlan is said to have dis-
played unusual bitterness. He offered to put up
±1000, and row Courtney on any body of water in
America. Courtney kept cool, and asked Hanlan
how much he had to pay for cutting his boat, and,
exhibiting £2000, offered to bet that he would
crowd Hanlan to faster time at Walker’s than he
ever made before. Courtney said if 1 lanlan did not
cut his (Courtney’s) boat at Chautauqua, his (Han-
lan s) money did it. Hanlan said Courtney was
a liar and a thief.” Wallace Ross bavin# an-
pointed Courtney as his Judge in the race, Hanlan
made a formal protest to the committee against
Courtney acting in that capacity.
The Slade-Mitehell fight comes off on the
11th of this month. The American Press takes it
as a foregone conclusion that the Englishman will
wl :, but we are under the impression that if the
fight Is on the square” as well as in it, it will not
he such a one-sided affaires the Yankees imagine.
That Mitchell is a good and tried middle weight
there can be no two opinions; but it must not bo
lost sight of that Slaue has great weight, height,
and reach, prodigious strength, is an acknowledged
clever wrestler, and last, but not least, has been
for many months sparring and training with Jem
Mace, who, as a ring tactician, is as good, if not
better than, any other man living, A light man can-
not tight a heavy one. unless his scientific acquire-
ments outweigh all the superior gifts of nature
possessed by his opponent. When Tom King g ( ,t
one blow home on Jem Mace, he felled him like an
ox and won the battle: and in like manner when
George Glue, the champion of Sydney, an acknow-
ledged out-and-out good 13-stone English lighting
man, fought and lost his laurels under the poweis
of our native fourteen and fifteen stone men, he
declaied he felt his blows fall almost harmlessly
on them, so much was he over-weighted. Return-
ing now to the coming tight, the Maori has never
been tried, and may turn out to have, like Jem
Mace, a soft place about him; but if ho shows
himself at all worthy of the name of pugilist, he
ought certainly to “ put the Englishman through.”
occupied the same house with one of their reviva
meetings. During the progess of the exercise
Moody remarked: “ Is there any doubting, hesita
tmg sinner in the house who will come upon the
platform so that I can wrestle With him ?" “ You
bet there is!” and before the minister could re-
cqver irom his surprise a stalwart individual had
climbed upon the stage and gotten a scientific
backhold upon the exnorter. Just as the good
man was about being violently Hipped over the
melqdeon, Sankey interfered and explained
matters, to the great disgust of the acceptor of
the challenge, who was an up-country wrestler
who had mistaken iho night and supposed ho was
in for a chance at a Iree-for-all sweepstakes.
SPORTING GLEANINGS
Albion Park Races Thursday last:—Uhlan
won the Hurdle Race. The Maiden Plate fell to
Vedette, and Vedette scooped both the Macquarie
and Flying: Handicaps Hay Race Club Spring
meeting in October, two days’ racing. Principal
events, October Cup of 100 sovs.. and Kivenna
Plate of 50 sovs At the Ballarat Coursing Club
meeiing the Champion Stakes wore won by Pro-
serpine, Cowslip runner-up The following
officers have been appointed la connection with
the N. S. Wales Cyclists’ UnionPresident, Mr.
Janies Martin; vice-presidents, Messrs. J. B. Holds-
worthand A. Lee; bon. secretary, Mr F. M. Bladen.
. Bathurst will hold a Sheffield Handicap of £100 on
the Prince of Wales’ Birthday. Dan the irrepres-
sible is amongst the stewards a pretty good proof
they “Mayne" business .. .The return football
match between Cooma and Queanbeyan, played at
Cooma, resulted in a win for the local team by 4
points to nil — At the Canterbury (N.Z.) Coursing
Club’s meeting, the Cut) was won by P. Butlers
Bridegroom, Boss and llassett’s Granville runner
up. The Ladles’ Bracelet was divided between it.
Stewart's Skiddaw, Dash, and Secret... Vampire,
by the Barb—Rushlight, at one time the property of
T. Ivory, was lately destroyed at Auckland (N.Z.)..
The Hawkesbury (Windsor) Cricket Club had a
very successful season. Out of 34 matches, 15 were
won, 5 lost, and 4 drawn... .Ted Leary—suggestive
name—of Gundagai, dreamt First Demon won the
Hawkesbury, and bucked him to win £80 The
Phoenix Foundry crew won the Trades Trophy at
Lake Wendouree, Vic. The Bundaroo Park brood
mare Amethyst, by New Warrior from Amethyst,
by Ambrose from Heroine of Lucknow, by Niit-
with from Pocahontas (dam of Stockwell). died on
38th Aug st. She was heavy in foal to Angler
W. K. Thomson, of Vic., has imported a couple of
highly bred greyhounds by the Macduff, Debrett,
by Master Sam—Death, an own brother to Marshal
Macmahon, winner of the Gosforth Gold Cup,
Anglesey Cup, Kempton Park Plate; and to Do-
bonnalre, twice winner of the Waterloo Plate;
and Dulce Domum, by Contango—Hebe, an own
brother to Bashful Joe.
• • •
In last week’s issue we inadvertently stated
the challenge cup competed for at Lorda by the
Hon. A. Lyttelton and Mr. Heathcote, was for the
lawn-tenuis championship. It should have read
“tennis” championship... Patsy Hogan, the noted
sporting man of the Pacific Slope, has signed a
contract with Charles Mitchell, the English cham-
pion, to appear in a series of exhibitions on the
Pacific Slope. Mitchell, on his arrival, was to box
Robinson, the amateur of the Olympic Club, who
bested Slade. .Maurice Murphy, the featherweight
amateur champion pugilist of England, arrived in
New York. He stands 5 feet 5i Inches in height,
and weighs 136 lb. He wants to be backed against
any 1321b. pugilist in America, amateur or profes-
si nal. Murphy hails from London, and claims
that Mitchell can defeat Burke, although the latter
hud the best of the fighting when be fought
Mitchell with the gloves at Ascot Heath
Barney Blake, Captain Daly’s Irish giant, knocked
out another ambitious pugilist on June 30. The
unknown attempted to stand for tour three-
minute rounds. 1’hree rounds settled him Ma-
jolica, an American trotter, recently won three
heats right off the reel in 2.22%, 3.20% and 3 17. In
the following week he won another purse in the
thr ee-minute class, and trotted three heats In 2.21%
3.19% 3 30, and 2.31— In America a series of cham-
pionship bicycle races between John 8. Prince,
champion of America, and H. W. Higham, cham-
pion of England, took place over a five-mile course
and was won by Prince after a close and most ex-
citing strugglejn 18m 47%s. Higham’s time was 18rn.
48%s. The track was heavy from recent rains
Uogardus is out in a challenge to shoot a pigeon
match at 100 yards, English rules, against any man
nr the world for £1000 a side In Mauritius,
Avernus, 8st 71b. has been matched against Little
Jack, 8st, for £200 a side; and Wentworth, 9st,
ditto against Beadsman, 7st 71b “Prof.” John
Williams, of Canada, has challenged William Beck-
>ith, the English champion swimmer, to swim one
mile tor £100 a side, either in New York or Canada
— Carrier pigeons in China, being much mo-
lested by birds of prey, are provided with
a small bamboo apparatus, which, affixed to
their bodies, makes a whistling sound when
they fly, and keeps birds at a respectful distance..
A novel tricycle, operated by hands and feet, two
wheels resting on one track and one on the other,
and built to accommodate two persons, is driven
at greatspeed over the road of the Delaware (U.8.1
Lakawanna and Western Railway by Civil Engineer
Unro—Iroquois showed a bit of bad temper upon
his arrival in America on the 11th July. Consider-
able difficulty was experienced In lauding him, as
he could not be coaxed or forced to walk down the
gangway, either forwards or backwards, and he
resisted successfully the attempt of a party of
longshoremen to pull him down by means of a rope
attached to his halter. All other plans failing of
success, he was finally boxed and hoisted ashore
by machinery. ..A dog-flght took place on the
night of 38th June, in a pit in Winchester County,
N.Y., between Ben, a white dog weighing 191b. 4oz.,
and Nigger, also white, with a black patch on the
side of his head, and weighing 301b. 8oz. The
former won after flgnting fifty-two minutes
Hiram Stoddart, ot Syracuse, recently fought
Jack Bishop for a purse at Orville (N.Y.) Stod-
dart wore hard gloves, and Bishop, who has the
reputation of being a hard hitter, was allowed to
use his bare knuckles. Only two rounds were
fought, when Stoddart knocked Bishop out. Jack
Bessunger writes that Bishop went off to sleep and
did not awake for over ten minutes The cham-
pionship mile race at Ottawa, Canada, on July 2,
between William Cummings (who recently
defeated William Steele) and John Haine, was won
by Cummings by eight yards. Time, 4 m. 32 1-6s.
The track was in poor condition The wrestling
match at Bangor, Me., on June 36, between H. M.
Dufur, ot Mailboro, Mass, and Patrick O’Donnell,
ot Ottawa, Canada, was won by Dufur, after an
exciting struggle. He gained two out of the three
falls.... The English Jockey Club are about to
apply to Pa liament for a charter, with a view ot
obtaining greater powers for the control of turf
matters
AT KATOOMBA—A FACT.
Her Mamma : *‘From this point we have our loveliest view. How do you like it? ”
He (with rapture): “Oh, charming! ”


URNITURE SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
Hall furniture, hatstands, and
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb, Furniture Importers, Spring and
O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
NOVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-strcet.
AFTERNOON TEA TABLES, elegant and inex-
pensive. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell-street.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
some STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
BILLIARD TABLES, full size, with appurten-
ances : also smaller Convertible Tables, 7 and
8 feet—may be used as dining tables. Now on view.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, Importers, Spring
and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
BEDSTEADS, an sizes, at lowest prices. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Importers,
O ’ Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
E' IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—TVio
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £S. BRADLEY,
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
HEAP FURNITURE.-Whatnots, from 2(5fr;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, fram35s; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from 10s 6d: Tables, from 7s 6d: Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20s; Cedar ChHfo-
niers, from 25s; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 80s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
85s.
BRADLEY
NEWTON,
and LAMB,
SYDNEY.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
F
URNITURE.—The Largest Stock In the
Colony, BRADLEY, NEWTON, i
O’Connell-street.
and LAMB,
TT|RAWING-ROOM CABINETS-Early English,
1 9 Anglo-Japanese, and Chippendale designs.
Just opened. BRADLEY, NEWtOn, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
streets.
Dining-room furniture. - Magnificent
Suites in Walnut, Oak, and Mahogany. Side-
boards, Dinner Waggons, &c., to match. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O’Connell streets.
UttAMB WORK for DRAWING “and DINING
F 1
ROOM FURNITURE, Handsome and Massive,
in Oak, Walnut and Mahogany. The VERY BEST
REAL MOROCCO SKINS, and Materials for up-
holstery. Open to inspection. BRADLEY, NBW-
TON, and LAMB.
ED8TE ADS, nickel-plated and black and brass ;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
B
B
nell-
w
EDDING.—All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell-street.
ASHSTANDS, with marble, 25s each.
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Cr
ARDEN SEATS and Verandah Chairs. —Brad-
ley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.-A very complete
Assortment just opened; many quite new,
designs.
OCCASIONAL CHAIRS In VERY 'GREAT
Variety, Chairs, Stools, Desks, Sco., Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
PFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
FF Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c., Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
ICE CHESTS, all sizes, very superior make. - Ex-
amine before purchasing. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-strcets.
TRON SAFES, various sizes. BRADLEY, NEW-
TQN, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
TEINWAY NEW YORK PIANOS, the FINEST
in the world. A SHIPMENT just landed.
O
s
DQ GUINEA PIANO, WARRANTEES sounS
and durable, In solid walnut case; specially
adapted for beginners or schools.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
O PIANO, brilliant toned, full oom-
OU pass, all the latest improvements. In hand-
some walnut case; WARRANTED SOUND and
DURABLE ; BEST VALUE in the trade.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
CELEBRATED PIANOS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB
have received
another LARGE SHIPMENT
of
R. LIPP and SONS’ celebrated PIANOFORTES
direct from the Makers, comprising; TALL
GRANDS, LITTLE UPRIGHT ORANDe, SA-
LOON GRANDS, VERY HANDSOME andof the
HIGHEST CLASS FINISH,
in
WALNUT and BLACK GOLD.
0T WE HAVE NOW THE LARGEST STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA OF
LIPP’S PIANOS
TO SELECT FROM.
WE INVITE INSPECTION.
FOR PRIVATE SALE AT EXTREMELY LOW
PRICES.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Pianoforte Importers,
O’Connell and Spring street*.
Mr. Jefferis is about to lecture on winning
the palm (oil, understood.)
Mr. DkCourcy Bpowne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 136 Pitt-street, Sydney
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Departments undertaken. Titles a
special ity.—Apvx.
SOCIAL.
Derby Day was rather bleak on the Rand-
wick lawn, and the fleeting glimpses of sun that
escaped from between the gusty clouds were few
and far between. Had it been otherwise, the sight
would have been a fine one, for there were many
new and handsome costumes. But a dull grey sky
will never show off any dress well. Heavy velvets
fared the best; but the light fleecy fabrics
ventured on by some ladies, in the hope that the
day would turn more summery, were blown
around in most “admired confusion.” Several
rich sealskins were seen, and mantles trimmed with
fur and sable ; while a few gentlemen wore their
long overcoats to the heels, opening behind from
the waist—the latest London fashion. The most
salient dress was certainly that of a well-known
solicitor’s daughter, of Burwood; entirely ot a
bright crimson, handsome both in colour and
shape, and its admirers were treated to plenty of
it. Another, ail of bright cobalt blue, helped to
direct the gaze, but it was scarcely so unique. A
dark green brocaded velvet was worn by an ex-
mayoress of Darling Point, whose husband
escorted—in myrtle green, yellow striped on the
breast and round the hips, hat of green and yellow
stripes to match—the sister of a most distinguished
legislator who resides in Macquarie-street. The
German Cousul cavahered the owner of a beauti-
ful costume of golden brown plush, richly heavy,
falling down beneath a sealskin sacque in long tabs
nearly to the hem, under which was a lighter
brown satin. The tallest and most graceful figure
on the lawn was garbed in a perfect-fitting wine-
coloured silk, with panels and light trimmings of
same coloured velvet. A plain black and white
was very modest; and a black bunched top over
grey check skirt the essence of neatness. A cream
nun’s veiling paniered bodice surmounted a skirt
of three pleated flounces of pretty brown satin.
The sparkling little lady who has pleased the
world as “ Jo” seemed to be everywhere, in a
black satin kilted skirt and figured velvet jacket,
large yellow buttercups under her hat rim ; while
the ceaseless vivacity of her conversation made
her always the life of a little group of idolaters.
Which reminds us, there’s only one thing that
goes faster than a racehorse, and—wo forget what
that is just now. In company with Mr. Want, a
lady in garnet satin is taking an interest in the
saddling of what Gordon calls a “satin-skinned
bay the lady’s dress is in rows of gathers and
trimmed with garnet lace, and, worn with a prin-
cesse bonnet exactly matching, looks handsome.
Another nice toilet in the paddock is of greenish-
black cloth with largo scallops of gold braid round
the bodice and skirt; wasp-coloured bonnet.
With her affianced, lately from England, is the fair
daughter of an auctioneer in a drab tunic over a
light dress of grey green check, and hat to match
—quite a study in neutrals. Conspicuous in the
stand is a dress where rosepink satin is combined
with crushed strawberry brochd, and trimmed
with white lace to relieve the quantity of colour ;
and near by is a pretty little maiden whose dress
of terra cotta paniered body over a white cash-
mere skirt in long pleats is dainty and fresh-look-
ing. Next, attention is drawn to the bright dress
of a tall young lady—dark brown body of velvet
terminating with broad lace of pure white, and a
skirt of light brown satin pleated its entire length
from waist to hem ; with her is a companion whose
slender figure shows to its best in a dress of zephyr
cloth, or something as light, of a bathstone colour,
fitting loosely yet well to the figure, and around
the waistband and skirt two rows of little cardinal
tabs— the whole costume looking delightfully and
naturally graceful, A dove cashmere touched off
with black velvet was demure and neat. Two or
three bonnets bore the famous crushed strawberry,
but it was by no means pleni iful; peacock blue is
still worn a little, and ficelle is occasionally
visible. Large neutral checks, such as drab, grey-
green, pearl-ash, and so on, composed some of the
nicest quiet dresses.
♦ * *
It does not often happen that the most ex-
pensive balls at e the best. You may pay a large
price, and get little for it; but the Royal Antedi-
luvian Order of Buffaloes managed their first ball
in a way that satisfied everyone, for a very modest
figure. The Sydney Unity Lodge (N.S.W. consti-
tution), as we gathered from an impassioned ora-
tion delivered by Maximilian Meyers, Esq., Knight
of the Order, as he stood under the centre chan-
delier, started six months ago with five members,
and now it numbers 135. It combines the principles
of a benefit society with regular meetings for
music, eloquence, and social recreation. Many
members belong t® the theatrical profession; and
as these are engaged six nights a week, the meet-
ings take place on the seventh—which night
usually falls on a Sunday. It will, perhaps, shock
some peonle to hear this. Personally, we are of
opinion that hardly anything is more wicked than
singing on a Sunday night—unless it be whistling
on a Sunday morning. The Buffaloes, however,
all go to church in the morning, and most of
them are regular attendants on the Dean
every Sunday afternoon. A large picture
of a buffalo hunt hung at the head of the
room, and the members wore medals, and when
the Knight gave his address, they formed a ring
round and at each pause signified approval with
their feet—because a buffalo always paws. Herr
Gustave Kuster’s band was engaged for the dancers
who kept moving till four in the morning, and T.
Cripps catered capitally. Miss Meyers wore a very
handsome crimson and amber dress, which suited
her admirably. Mr. Costello was conspicuous in an
original costume of a Friar, the long drab monastic
robe, waist girdle, and cross on a beaded string,
being quite a ballroom novelty. Miss Johnson, in
a dainty blue and cerise satin, was decidedly the
prettiest girl present; a young lady in blue brochd
with a flowery hat, excelled in dancing; also a
young lady whose name, dross, and dancing can be
all expressed in two words—white and light. A
lovely white silk moird and satin, caught uo with
poppies, was from Palmer-street; and a lady in
black, with pure white flowers, was a symbol of
neat grace. Two sisters in tops of burgundy satin
and cream nun's veiling skirts had a nice new airy
look. Pansies looked pretty on a dress, but we
wouldn’t put pansies on our feet unless they were
very small. That young lady did, though. Miss
Rainford was all in cardinal satin; and a graceful
little blonde very dainty in a semi-sleeved white
satin, flounced with fine lace, with primroses in
her hair, and a devoted young sailor always in her
vicinity. Mrs, Levy was Columbia. H. Hannah
and Rich, Quia were both made up as Charles the
Second, and A. Wightmanas Edgar in “King’s
Dragoons." About midnight, there was an infusion
of fresh young life and fancy attire from the
temples of Thespis and Melpomene, and by that
time about 150 guests must have been whirling
around the room. It is clear to us that the Buffa-
loes are full of social notions, and their first ball
was a very gratifying one.
* * *
Here is the substance of what a correspon-
dent sends us, and we politely invite attention to
the style. “A would-be aristocratic bail was
given by a certain few of the Blanktown patri-
cians. and for cliquism commend me to it. The
line of distinction was so accurately drawn that
each party danced by themselves, and aped the
consequential attitude. A few used every chance
to break the ring. The ball, which was Intended
for a private one, was the very reverse, as the
public were allowed in the apology of a gallery,
and, as the Gazette remarked, some of them had
too much Hop Bitters. The arrangements, &c.,
were very faulty, and the committee must have
been very green at anything ot the sort. The ball
was held in the Blanktown School of Arts, a miser-
able little pokey building. I would recommend
the committee, the next time, and so on, &c.” Now
we print this just to show what we don’t want.
This sort of thing irritates the people it’s written
about, without doing any good. We do not doubt
that every word of it is true, for we have seen
balls ourselves just like that, lots of them;
but we see a good many things we don’t say
anything about. We know that in every
country town young Narcissus in the bank doesn’t
recognise the baker’s son, who is a decent young
fellow; and that the leading storekeeper’s lady
crosses the street whenever sna sees the butcher’s
wife coming; but if we printed all this, we don’t
believe the dlite of Groganwooltown would love
one another any more than they do now, or the
butcher’s wife have any better chance of “ break-
ing the ring.”
• • •
Next Thursday, the Masonic Ball of the
St. Andrew’s Lodge will happen in the Town Hall
vestibule. Dress may be as rich as anyone likes,
“but not expressed in fancy.” Oompagnoni pro-
vides tarts, and Shapter the tunes; and there will
be a special brand of whusky for the “Scotch
constitution.”
• • •
The annual Bachelors’ Ball at Grafton
took place on 24th August, in Mr. Maurice’s rooms,
and a hundred were present. Supper, entered by
the proprietor of Laird's hotel, was well managed,
as, indeed, was the whole ball; and two balcony
verandahs were not the least favourite features of
the night. Belleship could scarcely be awarded to
any one; but among the prettiest laces and dresses
were two sisters in white, lately laken to a town
residence; a dark-eyed young lady neat in pink,
from Braid wood way; and a tall brunette from
South Grafton in blue sateen, with cream roses in
her hair. A squatter’s pet lambs, the P.M.’s fas-
oinatiug daughter, and three daughters of the late
M.P. were there. It was quite natural for the
daughter of a “sky pilot” to look angelic in pink
and white; and for a young lady from Prince-
street to be a princess in her rich dress of pink
velvet body and brown satin skirt with hand-
painted flowers on the front. Ladies attended
from “Clarence House,” and from Sydney; and
among the matrons was a surveyor’s wife, clover
dancer, in maize and cream; and a similarly cir-
cumstanced lady in black brocade and velvet:
while the wife of the C.P.S. was worthily dressed
In black satin and crushed strawberry. Music was
by part of the Grafton band, and well rendered.
Altogether, the ball was so satisfactory that it is
almost certain some of the bachelors will graft-on
some of the local beauty-buds before next year.
* * *
The new and spacious hall of the Odd-
fellows atGoulburn was the scene of a most enjoy-
able plain and fancy dress ball on the 31st ultimo.
Dancing began at 9 p.m. to the sweet strains of the
Premier Band of a dozen perfdrmers, and lasted
till 4 a.m. A programme of 25 dances was gone
through in ease and comfort, including seven
waltzes, the Waltz Cotillon, the Prince Imperial
Quadrille, and the Varsoviana. The dancing was
uniformly good. Amongst the fancy dresses were
noticed Gipsy Queen, Peasant Girl, Tambourina,
Stars and Stripes, Folly, Pantaloon, jockeys, sailors,
and (mirahde dictu) a Coachman! The family of a
worthy P.G.M. and ex-Mayor wore conspicuous by
their toilettes and dancing. The eldest daughter
wore a magnificent costume of crushed strawberry
satin, and, being tall, showed it off to advantage.
A charming cream and pale blue satin, and a white
satin and forget-me-nots, also arrested attention.
Professor Blyth acted as M.C. by request, giving
satisfaction, and he and his wife seemed to revel in
the Spring waltz. The Oddfellows are to be con-
gratulated on their fine hall and well-arranged ball.
• • •
The monthly meetings of the Petersham
Owl Club culminated in a plain and fancy ball last
week. Petersham Owls differ from Sydney ones,
in not being scientific; their badge being L.M.D.
Six months a year, this stands for Literature,
Music, and Drama; the other six months which
alternate, it stands, we believe, for Lovely Maidens
Dancing. At least wo suppose so, for that’s what
wo always see on those occasions. Considering the
numerous free concerts and dances the club has
given its friends, who crowd the room whenever
they’re asked, more people might have been at the
ball. About 120 attended, and every detail was
carefully arranged to make the ball as complete as
possible. De Groen’s band of six, including little
Pagnotti on the oboe, was engaged for the dancing,
which commenced at 9 o’clock, and the music was
in first-rate time. Some dresses of ladles were ex-
ceptionally pretty; and not one more so than the
daintily gathered pink nun’s veiling, with pink
trimmings, worn by one of the club treasurer’s
daughters. A similar pink, set off with rows ot
roses exactly matching, was worn by a little blonde,
who might say “ my face is my fortune,” and con-
sider herself a rich girl. Three sisters were
from Petersham; two from Marrlckvllle; two
daughters of a commission agent were all
black and blue (though no one ever
did or ever could heal them) ; and the
fair daughter of an auctioneer was In black. The
daughter of an ex-M.P. wore a cream, loosely
covered with lace; and from Annandale came a
charming little dancer in pink brochd and nun’s
veiling, with white lace sleeves—a very pretty at-
tire. Two fawns wore excellent, the darker worn
by the gentle wife of a clever violinist, with long
silk gloves to match; the lighter by an elderly
lady. From Stanmore, the bright little daughter
of an ex-alderman looked witching in black satin,
with pink streamers and hair flowers; and a Surry
Hills brunette in cream wore cardinal flowers, and
danced supremely. A belle from Ada House wore
white striped satin decked with a network of blue
chenille and forget-me-nots; and a young lady
from Waverley was decidedly a rival in French
white brochd and tulle (but with a Saxon name),
her sister favouring blue satin draped with white
lace, and both with chaplets of pink roses. Very
few took advantage of fancy dress; but one little
picture of sweetness came as Nancy Lee, and was
pretty enough for all the rest. An architect’s wife
was dressed in an early English style; and Mr, H.
Lamb in his bicycle racing costume of white un-
whlsporablosand hose and blue silk jacket. Dr. Tib-
bits (pres.), Mr. J. Gelding (mayor and vice-pres.) of
the club, were present; aud for visitors from Sydney
a special ’bus was put on at half-past three, which
rattled quickly back to town. Although the pro-
grammes were printed by Sands, they were de-
signed by an Owl, Mr. P. B. James, and were highly
artistic. On the back, an owl outlined against the
moon perches on a leaf-circled shield of gold,
bearing the names of all office-bearers in the club;
while the spires of a town loom in the distance.
On the front is a blue moonlit landscape, where ten
distinct birds, each beautifully drawn, are giving
a concert, the owl, perched on a “ ball,” taking
chief place, while flocks wend their way to the
scene to listen. We’ll venture not one of those
cards is thrown away; for they are probably the
prettiest ever seen out of Sydney, if not in it.
* * * *
Both plain and character dress can be worn
at the School of Industry ball, which is likely to be
a great success, in the Town Hall, next Tuesday.
Already we have heard of many of the best known
society people going The unusual event of a
golden wedding was celebrated by Mr. and Mrs.
George Robinson, at Grimsby House, Deep Gully,
near Grafton, on 25th August On the 28th, a
splendid wedding entertainment was given at
Newstead by Mr. George Harris, on his daughter’s
marriage. 350 at the evening ball In a London
law court, Mr. Justice Cave defined dancing as
“ a graceful and rhythmical movement of the legs
and feet.” But he has never seen a Parramatta girl
dancing Singleton town band is organising
Cinderella parties; first one last Friday... .A Yass
girl became so interested at a recent wedding, that
when the clergyman asked the bride the moment-
ous question, she cheerfully ehippered out “ I
will, in place of the bride. That shows whether
Yass girls are ready for an emergency.. .A Spelling
Bee was held at Paterson on the 23rd ultimo, when
three competitions took place. Miss E. Cann can
spell anything, and cantered off with first prize.
The influential men of the township were awfully
glad when it was all over. They didn’t know any
moment some one might ask them a word
Gunnedah Tradesmen’s Ball was a small and cosy
hop, in the School of Arts, Friday week It is
said, and hoped, no doubt, that a recently elected
candidate is going to spread himself on a big
festivity —Just a little correction. Madame
Kellermann’s encore piece to the concerto was not
“Some Day,” but the pretty “Bulwara Waltz.”
And we may just say, too, that Madame favoured
Mr. Stevens, who wrote them, with one of the
waltzes at the Citizens’ Ball. .. Sports meetings on
Association Ground for the next three Saturdays
running — On dit that a very popular chosen of
the people is about to assume fresh responsibili-
ties. “ The light that lies in woman’s eyes’’ shines
Darling Point way... Randwick Sociable to-night.
....Opening ball of the Newcastle Sailors’ Home
on the 12tn inat....A new young doctor having
settled on the Lower Clarence, all the unattached
§irls spend their time sitting in draughts now
n the 24th Aug. Mrs. J. S. Pengilly, of Yarraman,
gave a little birthday party, in honour of Willie,
the heir, growing a year older. The local Plutarch
says: “ All the young ladies looked charming ‘ in
their dressess.’ ” This must be one of Alfred’s
men who is lost up that way. No one else can
write in such a graphic style—Rev. J. Jefferis
said of the Badbam banquet, last Sunday night :—
“ Just fancy a struggling student drawing 35s. from
his pocket for a dinner!”....A return ball is to be
given to the Mayor of Armldale on 2nd October....
Mr. J. G. Cousens was entertained at a dinner on
Friday, as he is leaving Mount Victoria....There
will be a Mayor’s Ball at Glen Innes on 19th Sep —
Sir Patrick Jennings, president of the Liedertafel,
gives a ball to the performing members shortly.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Government House Ball Sept. 5
Randwick Races Sept. 6, 8
Wellesley Football Club Annual Ball (School
of Arts, Burwood) Sept. 7
Bachelors’Private Assembly (Nlthsdale)...8ept. 7
Rugby Union Sports Sept. 8
School of Industry Ball (Town Hall) Sept. U
Glebe Private Assembly September 11
Corap. Ball to Mr. A. C. Shadier September 12
Banquet to Mr. P. Hogan (Waterloo
Town Hall) Sept. 12
St. Andrew’s Masonic Ball Sept. 13
Manly Wlldflower Show Sept. 14,15
E.8.A.A. Club Sports Sept. 15
Snails’ Bay Regatta Sept. 15
Corap. Ball to Mr. F. H. Needs (Nithsdale). .Sept. 19
Annual Picnic Nimrod Fishing Club Sept. 19
Sydney A. A. Club Sports Sept. 22
St. Vincent’s Annual Ball (Exhibition) Sept. 25
Railway Officers’ Picnic (Botany) Sept. 26
Parramatta Rowing Club Ball Sept. 28
**♦ Nptlces of all Interesting Social Events (pro-
perly authenticated by the names and addresses of
the writers) will be inserted.
Sydney, 4th September.
Dear Bei.ee,— The cloudy skies and cold winds
of last week were very trying to the girls, who
had got out all their Spring finery, and had to put
it away again. The bicycle race did not draw a
very great crowd to the Agricultural Show ground
on Thursday afternoon, but the spectators seemed
freatly interested and excited about the event,
he bicyclists, all excepting Clarrie Wood, who
seemed a favourite, were treated by the lookers on
to a variety of sarcastic illusions to their personal
appearance. One rather attenuated youth, play-
fully addressed as “skin and grief,” was requested
to “hold on tight, or he'd blow away,” and informed
that he “had neither flesh nor wind;” while
another competitor, whose locks were of the
colour that painters love, was saluted every time
he passed as “Ginger,” “CopperTop,” etc. He
didn’t seem to feel hurt, but smiled good-humour-
edly all the time. There were few noticeable cos-
tumes to be seen. However, two or three were
pretty. A claret-coloured velvet jacket, with
satin panniers of the same hue over a skirt of
flowered satin, the flowers of different colours,
looked imposing. I saw one, quite a Spring cos-
tume, of steel-coloured silk, trimmed with white
lace, cream hat and feathers. A rich-looking dress
of maroon satin, with embroidery of gold beads,
was attractive; this had a bunch of fruit, plums
half ripe, fastened on the bodice in front. A
violet and white striped satin, white lace trimming,
was remarkable; as was a red and blue shot silk,
with jacket and tunic of dark brown silk, the tunic
cut in deep points. Nearly all the exhibits were
gone. The Vernon boys’ band played—not badly,
either; though now and then a terrific blast, all
out of tune, came from some instrument.
Many pretty dresses appeared on the Block on
Saturday morning. A lovely one was of olive
green satin over a skirt of with pattern of
terra cotta flowers. A grey cashmere skirt and
sleeves, on a tunic of brown and gold-coloured
brochiS velvet, and a light grey cashmere with
black velvet trimming, over a skirt of brochd silk
of lighter shade of grey, looked very nice. A
brown satin, with velvet draped across the front
skirt, was beautiful. A tgreenish yellow broch6
satin skirt, with a navy blue tunic and bodice, had
a very curious effect. Another strange-looking
combination was an olive-green satin bodice and
gaolers, with a skirt of large-flowered-pattern
luish-groen satin: hat of olive-green satin, with
feather tipped with rose colour. A dark-brown
cashmere and broche costume looked very stylish,
being beautifully made; the wearer tall, with a
good figure. Another tall young lady looked very
nice in a simple dress of small chock pattern, grey
and cardinal with cardinal sash. Bo vast the cir-
cumference and so huge was the expanse of one
dress, from the dimensions of the tournure or
crinolette under it, as to make it look like an um-
brella; and so abbreviated the skirt behind as to
show a good deal more than the wearer was con-
scious of. A black dress, with bodice and paniers
of an oriental pattern in crimson, looked very
pretty and uncommon.
It must be very depressing to the singers at the
Popular Concerts on Saturday evenings to have
such a scanty audience as that which shivered in
the more than half empty Protestant Hall on
last Saturday evening. However, the few who
were there made up la enthusiasm, for they
insisted on encores to almost everything. Mr.
Hallewell, besides taking part in the duet “ Love
and War ” with Mr. Kodd, sang the “ Monk,” “ A
Friar of Orders Grey,” and, as an encore, “The
Village Blacksmith,” the latter splendidly. Miss
Dora Browne showed considerable courage in
attempting “ Softly Sighs,” from “ Der Freischutz,”
and “ Lo, hear the Gentle Lark;” but I think it will
be some time before her singing of such composi-
tions will give much pleasure to anyone but her-
self. Most people would prefer to hear a simple
ballad given well than a difficult piece indifferently.
Miss Cowley, a young lady with a good contralto
voice, sang the “ Song of the Shirt,” “ Regret,”
and another song, as encore, with expression. You
could hear all the words, which you oan’t with
some singers. The programme said the “Song of
the Shirt ’ was to produced for the first time .here.
I don’t care if it should be the lost, myself, for it
is one o f the dismallest of doleful ditties. A young
lady, whose name was not given, sang two songs,
whose titles also were not given, very sweetly.
Mr. Rodd’s “ My sweetheart when a boy,” and “My
f rettyJane” tor encore, were well sung, indeed,
t is a pity some of the music was not livelier, with
some instrumental performance to vary it. Mr.
Huenerbeiu accompanied well.
The band of the Nelson played at the “ Zoo.” on
Saturday afternoon, but their beautiful music, in
addition to the attractions of Jumbo and those of
all the other animals, did not attract a crowd.
There were a few nice dresses to be seen; the best,
a moss green satin with small raised tufts, with
long black velvet polonaise over it. A maroon
satin with gold buttons was rich-looking; and a
costume of all ruby red, with parasol of same
colour, lighted up the rather wintry landscape
quite charmingly.
There are balls and rumours of balls to be given
this month. Thank goodness, light fluff y materials
are to be worn: I am tired ot satin, which is only
fit for old dowagers, besides being so expensive
that one can’t have half so many new dresses as if
they were of more inexpensive fabrics; and any
girl would rather lose a dance than be seen three
times running in the same dress.
Goodbye.
Yours,
MAB.


M
ORNTNCi SPEECH for TRUTH-SEEKERS.
ACADEMY OF MUSIC, Castlereagh-street.
SUNDAY MORNING, 9th SEPTEMBER, 11.90,
by
MR. LEO PLANIA.
■‘Great is the Truth, and inighty above all things.”
Subject:
CHRIST VERSUS THE CHURCHES.
Doors open 11. Admission free. Collection.
EVERY Dr. Marston’s New Work
MAW
SHOULD
Describing how sufferers from
Nervous and Physical Debility.
Mental Decay mid all disorders
resulting from Excesses, Indis-
cretions or Overwork, are per-
manently Cured
Without Stomach Medicines.
WEAK, NERVOUS. AND IMPOTENT
MEN RESTORED TO
VIGOR,HEALTH & MANHOOD
Consultation with Physician
and Book PKEE. Address—
READ
Marston Remedy Co.,
J 72 ELIZABETH ST,, SYDNEY.
WOOL SEASON, 18834.
R. Goldsbrough & Co.
(LIMITED),
In which are amalgamated The Australasian
Agency and Banking Corporation (Limited),
and R. Goldsbrough and Co.,
WOOL & GRAIN BROKERS.
Capital £3,000,000.
BEG to notify the Woolgrowors of New South
Wales and Queensland that they make
Liberal Cash Advances, on favourable terms, on
the ensuing clip of Wool, and on Station securities.
They have also much pleasure in announcing that
their NEW WAREHOUSES at Darling Harbour
will be ready for the reception and sale of Wool,
Auction Sales of which wili be held every FRIDAY
throughout the season. This department will
remain under the control of an efficient staff of
experts, who will take charge of and Sell to the
Best Advantage all consignments entrusted to the
Company’s care. The Sales of Fat Stock (at
Horaebush), Station and Freehold Properties.
Grain, Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, and General
Station Produce, will be under thesuperindenceof
Mr. GEORGE MAIDEN. The Warehouses will be
unrivalled in the Southern Hemisphere for extent
and adaptability to the trade, being replete with
every Modern Improvement tor the Efficient Dis-
play of Wool, the sale of which will bj conducted
on the Melbourne system. Large and complete
samples of each clip will be shown in the well-
lighted SAMPLE ROOMS, which comprise the
whole of the upper floors, and as the bulk will be
easily accessible in the various rooms, which are
convenient to each other, the fullest facilities will
be available for inspection, thus ensuring the ut-
most confidence in purchasing. Prior to offering,
valuations will be made by several experienced
valuators, and their valuations will be carefully
compared before the wool is submitted for sale.
The various lots, no matter how small, will be pro-
tected up to the full market value. As they con-
fine their business strictly to ihat of SELLING
BROKERS ONLY, the best guarantee is afforded
that no parcel will be sold for less than its worth.
Farmers’ Lots receive special attention, every bale
and sack in the clip being shown in the Sample
Rooms. Should owners’ expectations not be
realized in Sydney', they have the advantage of
trying the Melbourne market before deciding on
shipment, in which latter case the Company is pre-
pared to make liberal cash advances at lowest
market rates, and consign to the English, Conti-
nental, or American markets for disposal. The
charges on Wool offered for sale, but not sold, are
only ONE SHILLING PER BALE, which includes
Receiving, Warehousing, Insurance whilst instore,
and Delivering.
LONDON—150 & 157 LEADBNHALL STREET.
MELBOURNE-BOURKE & WILLIAM STREETS.
SYDNEY-4 SPRING STREET.
MORT and CO. (Limited),
WOOL AND GENERAL
PRODUCE BROKERS.
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
Grain and Flour Brokers,
Wool,
LIBERAL ADVANCES
made on
Sheepskins,
Tallow,
Hides, Wheat,
Tin Ore, and
x „ , , other Produce
for SALE and SHIPMENT.
Wool Warehouses and Produce Stores.
CIRCULAR QUAY
and
DARLING HARBOUR, SYDNEY.
£20,000~
To bo distributed on tho
MELBOURNE CUP, 1883,
To bo run on November 6th.
all PRIZES !! NO BLANKS !! I
“THE MELBOURNE TURF CLUB”
Desire to inform tho Sporting: Public that they
have made arrangements for holding a Mammoth
Sweep on the forthcoming Melbourne Cup, which
lor Novelty, Fidelity, and Advantage has no equal
In Australia.
Capital, £20,000 in 20,000 Shares of £1 Each.
First Horse
Second,,
Third ,,
Starters Divide
Non-starters „
£3000
1000
1000
1000
1000
4 Prizes of £500 £200C
8 „ 250 2001
10 „ 200 200C
20 „ 100 200t
Total...
£15,001
The remaining £5000 will be employed by the
Club in making a book on the Cup and other races,
that is, laying and taking the odds by a new system,
the success of which has been practically proved.
It is estimated that the profits accruing from this
source will range from £5000 to £15,000, the whole
of which, both capital and profits, will be equally
divided amongst subscribers who were unsuccess-
ful in drawing either a horse or a prize in tho
Mammoth Sweep. Each Subscriber will be sure ot
obtaining a Prize, be it large or small. The Pro-
moters of the M. T. C. are well-known sporting
gentlemen, and guarantee the above to be a bond-
fide affair in every particular. Ten per cent, com-
mission deducted from all winnings. Drawing to
take place on October 28th. Results posted imme-
diately after. Subscribers who wish to be present,
will please notify us in time. Add 3d. for reply and
result. Address—
THOMAS BENTLEY, Secty.
M. T. C., Melbourne.
W
Robert butcher & co
(Late William Long),
1ST WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn shelters
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
&c. &c. &c.
ILCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10
HEBBLEWHITE &
410 GEORGE STREET.
c o.
IEL TZTolff Sz Son’s
PENCILS.
To be had f rom all Stationers & Storekeepers throughout the colonies.
o 00\
—
S
THE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO,
are the largest consumers of American
I, Leaf in the colonies, hence the FIRST
and Flat Tobaccos-
position for quality is assigned to their Twist
-Yankee Doodle, Conqueror, Sir Roger (thick
twist), R. C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture, and others.
CIGARETTES. —Their CONQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold an equal position.
& S., Importers of Pipes of every kind. Cigars, and all Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods and Sundries.
2*£a,rti:ra. KZeesla-sm.,
STAR & GARTER HOTEL
No. 104, KING STREET, SYDNEY.
As no expense has been spared in the erection of the Hotel premises, M. K. guarantees country
visitors and others the best accommodation, combined with civility.
IS WHAT YOU WANT, BUT SELDOM GET.
THEN ASK YOUR GROCER OR STOREKEEPER FOR
A. G. Churchwooa’s Crown Brand
BLENDED PROM THE FINEST MOCHA, JAMAICA, and CEYLON BERRIES,
Dixson and Sons’ New Tobacco Works,
Sydney.
We give, in page 13, a sketch, by The Bulletin
artist of the grand new tobacco works of Messrs.
Hixson and Sons, situated at the corner of Park
and Elizabeth streets, Sydney. This is one of the
finest edifices in all Australia, and is further proof
of the wonderful development of business in the
sreat metropolis of the colonies. The firm of
Dixson and Sons was founded in these colonies in
1839 by the late Mr. Hugh Dixson,who had acquired
before arriving in Australia a thorough knowledge
of the art of tobacco manufacture. Mr. Dixson
carefully guaged the requirements of the
colony in this particular line, and he
awaited the opportunity of establishing the
industry here. The opportunity came with
the American war. A factory was opened In
Wynyard Lane, the founder being joined in the
undertaking by his son, Mr. Hugh Dixson, the
head of the present firm. The business grew, and
despite a wide prejudice—the usual thine: with
everything colonial—more extensive premises
were required. The works in York-street were
opened, and the trade still increasing the fine sub-
stantial structure in Castlereagh-street was
erected, and now the firm, in order to meet the
demand upon them, have just completed the erec-
tion of the splendid edifice shown in the engraving.
The buildings are situate at the corner of Park
and Elizabeth streets, and will contain the whole
of the factory, warehouse, and offices. Their pre-
sent offices will be removed from York-street some
time during the present month. The interior of the
new buildings gives one an idea of the vast area of
floor space; endless lengths of steam piping, belt-
ing, shafting, hydraulic pumps, and peculiar ap-
pliances are seen, showing that the firm intend to
prosecute their business with vigour, and prevent
delays to customers, which disadvantage, we are
informed, they have, for want of room, laboured
under for many months past.
Passing through the establishment, our attention
Is drawn to the chief points of attraction, a hasty
description of which will not fail to interest. En-
tering by the warehouse in Park-street, through
large glass swing doors, office-fittings, partitions,
desks, counters, are seen to be of massive and
handsomely wrought polished cedar, relieved with
polished pine with pleasing effect. Passing through
into the “ press ’ ’ room, we notice two steam ele-
vators or lifts of the latest principle as regards
safety and usefulness, are at work, also hydraulic
pumps and presses. We next come to the sweating
rooms, composed wholly of iron with brick walls,
where Are is impossible.
The cellar space on ground floor is asphalted,
and is used wholly for storage. The great strength
of the superstructure is here illustrated in the
solid masonry, beams and girders all on stone
foundations. Tiers of floors above are partitioned
off into numerous departments, and occupied by
the several branches of the business. There the
raw leaf is converted through its various stages of
manufacture into those tobaccos with which we
are familiar, amongst them being Yankee Doodle
and Conqueror. Immense hogsheads of American
leaf as it comes from the States, weighing 15 and
16 hundred pounds apiece, are here to be seen
stored away ready for use. Wo pass several rooms
containing complicated machinery, but which the
proprietor was not over anxious that we should too
fully examine and comment on. The cutting engine
is a beautiful piece of mechanism, capable of
cutting from the finest cigarette tobacco to the
coarsest rough-cut or Ruby, and doing its
work with a wonderful precision. Passing
the rows of workmen’s benches, &c., great
piles of leaf are seen In process of manu-
facture; at last we reach the roof, a vast
fiat covering the whole area of the building. It
resembles the deck of an Immense vessel, and is a
grand promenade, but used for drying leaf.
Covered hatchways are seen at intervals for sho-
velling down the leaf, when sufficiently dry, to the
floor beneath. Some Idea of the style In which the
edifice towers above all surrounding buildings
may be obtained in a view from the parapet walls.
Almost every thoroughfare of the city can be
seen, and the whole city lies before yon. We see
the Park, Woolloomooloo, Darlinghurst, the Heads
and ocean beyond, Darling Harbour, Parramatta
River, Newtown suburbs. From this glorious
spectacle, we descend by elevator to the yard, and
inspect the boiler and furnace, replete with every
modern appliance. The boiler Is one of three or
four of the finest In Australia, and was made to
order, and under the direct supervision of the
Manchester Steam Users Association. The boilers,
besides supplying steam to the machinery, supply
for heating purposes all through the building.
The engine is a perfect model of the engineer’s
art, simple in the extreme, and noiseless, without
perceptible vibration.
In the same room as the engine is a carpenter's
shop and cooperage, where boxes and casks are
made for use in the factory for packing the tobacco.
Besides the main dray entrances in Elizabeth-
Btreet and Park-street, there is another opening
Into the warehouse at Park-street, termed a dray
dock. Drays back right into the warehouse and
level with the floor, thereby preventing any inter-
ruption either to or from the main yard entrance.
Every precaution is taken against fire by a com-
plete water service throughout the whole building,
and at intervals on each floor by hydrants, with
hose and nozzle attached, are all ready, requiring
merely the turning of a tap to deluge the place
with water. Besides this, a watchman is kept con-
stantly on the premises.
No girls are, or ever have been, employed in the
factory, it being against the principles of the firm
of and Sons. D. and 8. manufacture every
class of light and dark tobacco, from the finely cut
and delicate gold leaf to the dark, heavy negro head
twist, including the highly aromatic ruby and gold
leaf tobacco of all kinds. They claim also to be
the largest consumers of American leaf in Au-
stralia. The celebrated and so familiar Tin Tag,
“Conqueror,” and “Yankee Doodle” are manu-
factured solely by this firm. Cut tobaccos of all
feinds, snuffs, and in fact all that the smoker can
most wish for, including cigarettes, of which their
make are the Conqueror and Early Bird.
Dixson and Sons also do a large business in im-
porting cigars, pipes, and all those many require-
ments that pertain to the tobacconist trade.
The contractor for the works was Mr. Thomas
STichoJ, and the satisfactory and faultless style in
which the work was carried out reflects consider-
able credit on bis management. Mr. Niched has
been for years identified with Important under-
takings in Now Zealand, and hag now commenced
business in Sydney. In addition to executing large
building contracts, Mr, Nichol undertakes shop
building, railway works, bridge building, &c., for
nil which work he has a numerous and competent
n.taff, with, probably, the most complete plant to
be lou ud anywhere In the colonies.
Service says that hundreds of incompetent
interlopers have crawled “over the Garden Wall ’’
of the Victorian Civil Service, and are now tilling:
important positions to the exclusion of faithful,
honest and deserving- officers, whose only fault is
their lack of political patronage. The Bible says,
“ he who entereth not in by the door, but dim beth
in some other way, the same is a thief and a
robber.”.. .Mr. Hubert, a N.lj. candidate for Parlia-
liameut, arrived at Cairns, carrying before him on
the saddle an elector’s baby. A clear case of
bribery Minister Wright will recommend the
construction of a line of railway between St.
Peter’s and Liverpool, if the owners of the land
along the proposed route will give the Govern-
ment the land. The sensible action of the Secre-
tary for Works has put the kibosh on an immense
fOfcpf “ resumptuous ” patriotism It was during
fhe finae of the anti-Chinese agitation that the
folloylfto- little episode occurred. Well-Known
politicians to Hibernian elector; “I suppose, Pat,
you aye in favour of poll-taxing all Chinese who
pome here T* Pat (emphatically): “NotI, begorraI
But it's In favour o’ poll-axing ivery mother’s son
f»v tjye murthering haythins, I am. Bad cess to
them I” Lord Derby Is unable to see why the
West Australians should not be content with their
present constitution. He’ll come round yet. West
Australia won the Derby once, and may do so
again An excise duty of 3d. per gallon on beer
?s the leading item of the Victorian TarlJf Com-
jnissoin’g recommendations.
Mr. Charles Alfred Chesuey, C.E., J.P.
Wr present our readers this week with a
portrait of this gentleman, and we may say
that it always affords us great pleasure to
do honour to our rising Australian natives.
Mr. Chesney is the inventor of the Chesney
Patent Automatic Earth Scoop, a machine
which is expected to revolutionise the
cost and mode of executing earthworks,
whether for pastoral or engineering pur-
poses. The subject of our sketch was born
in Geelong, Victoria, in 1854, and is of North
of Ireland parentage. The principal portion
of his education was completed in Ireland,
to which he was taken, when only a few years
old, by his parents. In 1875 he had conferred
on him, after a very severe examination, the
degree of Bachelor in Civil Engineering by
the Queen’s University in Ireland, Dublin,
after studying for some years in the Queen’s
College, Belfast, and he was immediately
afterwards offered an important engineering
appointment abroad. He refused this, and
in 1876 he sailed for his native country—Vic-
toria —on arriving in which he gave up fol-
lowing his profession as a means of hveliS
hood, and went to reside with his cousin,
Mr. Samuel M’Caughey, J.P., of the famous
Coonoug Station, Riverina, to get what is
commonly called “ colonial experience.” He
stayed there a few years, and no doubt Mr.
Chesney’s englneei'ing talent was useful to
that gentleman. Mr. Chesney is now largely
interested on his own account in station
properties in New South Wales. While at
home, he was for some time editor of a North
of Ireland weekly newspaper, and he held
the position of a special Irish correspondent
of the Central News Agency, London. At
the Melbourne International Exhibition
1880-’81, Mr. Chesney was one of the jurors
in the machinery section, and last year he
was appointed a J.P, for our colony. He is
a relation of late Colonel Chesney, R.E., of
the “ Battle of Dorking ” fame, a nephew of
the Wilsons —some of our oldest Victorian
pioneers, Sir Samuel Wilson being one of
them — and a son-in-law of Mr. William
Halliday, J.P., Brookong Station, N.S.W.
We understand Mr. Chesney was asked, prior
to last general election, to allow himself to
be nominated for a most important out-
lying constituency (in which he has a large
interest), but much as such honours were to
his liking, he was compelled through busi-
ness arrangements to decline them.
England is full of retired Bishops, chiefly
colonial, who are responsible to nobody, and who
are known by the term of “ returned empties.”
At Red Hill, Dromana (Vic.), a schoolmate
of the late Bishop Golenso’s is employed splitting
rails for a living. He is a cultivated scholar, but
clings to the opinion that splitting rails in the bush
is preferable to preaching threadbare fallacies from
the pulpit.
A parson preaching at Bulli, lately, com-
plained that a squatter who had sold his station for
£60,000 only put threepence in the plate on the
Sunday following the sale. We hardly see how he
can be blamed. He either estimated his soul, or
the prayers of the parson, at threepence. And
very likely he didn’t under-estimate either much.
Thomas Robertson, who is a solicitor, can-
not understand what is meant by “ bright ” church
services or “lively” church services. Who’d ex-
pect he could? Now, if it had been writ-services,
who so brimful of savee thereanent as Thomas ?
A correspondent tells this story. A R.C.
engineer was drowned the other day on the N.S. W.
coast, while out fishing. His body was not found
for several days, but meanwhile every preparation
was made for its interment. However, when at
last the corpse was recovered and taken to the K.C.
cemetery, the local priest refused to allow it to bo
buried there, on the alleged ground that deceased
was drunk at the time he met his death. So the
corpse was buried in the Presbyterian ground.
Archbishop Vaughan’s remains are to be
brought to the colony to be laid in St. Mary’s,
where the sound of those he wrought for and the
feet of those he fought for may echo round his
bones for evermore Rev. Mr. Gribble will re-
main on at the Aboriginal Mission Station, Waran-
gesda, as arrangements have been made to keep
the place in food. He wasn’t game to tempt Pro-
vidence or trust in the miraculous The mana-
gers of the Bishopthorpe estate believe that the
accumulations of income of the see between the
death of the late Bishop of Sydney and the appoint-
ment of the new belong as of right to such new
Bishop ; and, unless advised to the contrary
by eminent legal authority, they will con-
sider themselves bound to act accord!, gly —
The clergy are Just beginning to see that they
must infuse a portion of humour into their ser-
mons if they desire to fill the churches. Look at
this advertisement from a Rockhampton paper:—
“Primitive Mothodist Services on SundayFitz-
roy-street at 11 a.m., Rev. W. Powell; subject—“ Is
there a Personal God?” At 7.30 p.m.. Rev. T.
Jones, subject—“Is there a Personal Devil ?”
The lying cable again ! When will the
Australian people learn to laugh at the falsehoods
of the telegraphic correspondents of the daily
newspapers—when will they learn to spit upon the
leading articles penned by men who, professing to
believe the most glaringly obvious lies, lash the air
with their goosoquills ? With the Echo's maud-
lingly gushing leaders on the “attempted murder
of Lady Florence Dipsy ” by the men in green; the
Rum’s half-frenzied, half hiccuny paragraphs,
clearly fastening on to the Parnell party the send-
ing of infected linen to English Statesmen; all the
infamous mendacities promulgated about Charles
Bradlaugh and the Land League officials—the
latter’s murders, embezzlements, and thiovings in
general; the hideous outrages committed by poor
“ rebel” Arabi Bey; the villanies of the Nihilists—
we have all along been amused. The Bulletin is
the only newspaper in Australasia which hss
systematically jeered at three-parts of the “nows”
sent through the cable on debateable political
subjects. The S.M. Herald coolly publishes in its
columns a dastardly libel on a man at the other
end of the world, and leaves unwhipped the
imposture in its own street. But the Herald for-
gets. A month or two ago It printed a cable stating
that the coronation of the Czar was attended by
the “greatest enthusiasm.” We jeered at that
statement; and now we see in the same Herald
that “forty thousand soldiers, disguised as
common citizens and peasants, were at the corona-
tion to defend the Father and Czar of
Holy Russia against his people ! Let us quote
Swinburne on “ The White Czar” :—
“ Gehazi, by the hue that chills thy cheek,
And, Pilate, by the hue that sears thine hand,
Whence all earth’s water cannot wash the brand
That signs thy soul a manslayer’s, though thou
speak
All Christ, with lips most murderous and most
meek.
Slave of the slaves that call thee lord, and weak
As their foul tongues who praise thee 1 Son of
them
Whose presence puts the snows and stars to shame
In centuries dead and damned that reek below
Curse-consecrated, crowned with crime and liame,
To them that bare thee, like them shall thou go
Forth, of man’s life a leper white as snow.
Call for clear water, wash thy hands, be clean;
Cry, what is truth f O Pilate, thou shalt know
Haply too soon, and gnash thy teeth for woe
Ere tire outer darkness take thee round unseen
That hides the red ghosts of thy race obscene.
Bound nine times round with hell’s dolorous
flow,
And in Its pools thy crownless head lie low.
O white of pame ap'd red of hand !”


To the Public.
fflHE following Is a copy of a letter from the Hon.
John C. New, Assistant Secretary of the United
States Treasury, one of the most distinguished men
of America, ft is self-explanatory.
Treasury Department,
Washington, D.C., U.S.A., April 13, 1883
The Charles A. Vogeler Company,
Baltimore, Maryland.
Gentlemen,—It is a source of satisfaction and
pleasure to inform you that from my own personal
experience and observation I am enabled to give
St. Jacobs Oil my cordial recommendation,
I have frequently noted the happiest results
from its use, as a speedy and effective remedy for
the relief and cure of rheumatism and many other
distressing painful ailments, and it is well worthy
of all the high praise that is said In its favour. Its i
magical effect has no doubt made “ it conquer
pain”—a familiar watchword in millions of homes.
I congratulate you on being the possessor of
this remarkable agency of healing, and cannot but
thank you for the benefit I have known to be de-
rived from its use.
Believe me, Gentlemen,
Very respectfully yours,
Jno. C. New.
I
Genuineness Guaranteed^*
£100 REWARD. —A cash reward of one hundred
pounds will be paid by the Charles A. Vogeler
Company of Baltimore, Maryland, United States of
America, proprietors of St. Jacobs Oil, or by their
accredited local representatives, to any person
producing proof to the effect that the testimonials
published by them in regard to St. Jacobs Oil are
not strictly genuine. St. Jacobs Oil conquers pain.
It cures Rnematlsm, Neuralgia, Headache, Tooth-
ache, Backache, and all similar ailments. Sold by
Druggists and Chemists everywhere. Price in
New South Wales, half-a-crown a bottle. Direc-
tions for use in eleven languages. Elliott
Brothers, Sydney, Wholesale Depot for N-9.W.
THE NEWSLETTER.
At a recent entertainment in connection
with the Band of Hope established at Randwlck
Asylum, the 400 children present gazed upwards
towards a platform on which sat Superintendent
Thomas, and Davies, C.M.G. Where the “Hope”
to be derived from such a spectale came in we
can’t make out. Item, there were a number of
seamen from the “ Nelson” also on the platform.
Superintendent Thomas’s sailor friends are pre-
sumably “ horse” marines.
Out of hot water into cold and back again.
Richard Wilson, a schoolmaster up Grassmere way,
quarrelled, got drunk, was kicked out, and then
walked down to the river and stood there up to his
chin. He wanted to cool himself. But he was
collared, sobered, kicked back again, and set to
calculate fluxions in the local lockup. He wants
to know where all this is going to end, or whether
a man can do anything in this free country—that
is, a man of intelligence and refinement, who
knows more geography than Graham Berry.
Some years back, the publisher of the
West Australian Times (now the West Aus-
tralian) had an information laid against him by
the Attorney-General for publishing a letter com-
menting upon a case sent on for trial. As the
matter was a trifling one (merely the committal of
a civilian for not assisting a bobby in a melee), and
the letter had crept in in error, an apology settled
it. Chief Justice Burt, however, informed the
tourt that the case was one to be proceeded with
bepyre a jury, and the penalty allowable was two
years in the loca. Bastille.
Mr. Justice Williams felt rather non-
plussed when the jury of twelve returned a ver-
dict acquitting Mary Brown. The charge of rob-
l)©ry against tn© Kiri so©m©d so ol©arly establishod
that the Judge spent most of his summing up in
showing how wrong William Henry Perry, the
ioung man from the country who fell a victim to
[ary in Collins-stroet at midnight, was in trying
to condone the offence. But the jury came back
after a while, and stated that Mary was not guilty
at all. His Honor hitched himself in the chair, and
looked as if he were the recipient of a sudden
influx of grace.
Jam. Jam. New shipment just opened.
“I know of no more beautiful and encouraging
apeotaole than that which the children of these
schools afford, as one sees group after group of
happy faces, all ancient discords of creed and
colour lost in a sweet Australian harmony of
prosperity and equality.” Our aesthetic Minister
for Education said that at Orange, and when he got
round the corner he found three happy groups of
schoolboys putting heads at each other whilst a
crowd of other beautiful youngesters danced and
yelled round the punchers like Never Never niggers
round a Chinese hawker’s camp.
The excavations (for the laying down of
drain pipes) in Swanston-street, Melbourne, have
become the resort of all the embryo gold-diggers
in the cltv. New arrivals may be seen in the
Museum carefully studying the models of cele-
brated nuggets, in order that they may be able to
recognize a “ big lump” if it is thrown under their
immediate notice. About a month ago, you know,
a four-and-sixpenny specimen was unearthed from
the roadway, and, in spite of all the efforts of the
“ powers that be” to conceal this extraordinary
event, it furnished a “ paragraph.” But Journal-
istic dignity rejects the insinuation that one of the
labourers is a regular contributor to the Mel-
bourne evening papers.
The Port Jackson Co.’s new steel passenger
steamer Brighton arrived last week. She was
built by T. B. Leath and Co., of Butherglen, and
englnea by A. Campbell and Son. Length, 230 feet;
breadth, 46 feet; depth to main deck, 11 feet 3
inches; to saloon deck, 18 feet; tonnage about 400
tons ; driven by a pair of compound diagonal
oscillating surface-condensing engines of 160 horse-
power nominal. A 16-knot speed can be easily
maintained. Cabin accommodation is quite equal
to that of the Fairlight. By the way, when are
) the Italian fiddler and harpist, who provide music
) for the Falrlight’s passengers, going to give us a
new tune ? Throe years’ experience of the same
old hurdy-gurdied air is the limit of our patience.
The Brighton will carry 1400 passengers.
Getting drunk is a solemn and holy opera-
tion with a Russian peasant. Having made
arrangements for a three days’ absence, he goes to
the village shanty and tells the keeper how much
money he’s going to “ blue,” and how long he
has to do it. Then he sits to a table with some
spirits before him, and gets gailv and gradually as
drunk as a Presbyterian precentor. EVery time he
raises his head from the table, the shanty-man
hands him some more, for three days and nights.
Time up, he is carried out and sat on the snow.
Then he wakes up, shakes himself, and goes back
to work. There's a decorum about this style of
doing the thing, in bright contrast to the way a
Sydney bank clerk will lay around the cafes all
night and never get further than a state of maudlin
imbecility all the time.
In order to construct the Palestine Chan-
nel it is proposed to make a canal 25 miles in length,
from Haifa, in tne Bay of Acre, through the plain
of Asdraelon to the valley of the River Jordan.
This canal is to be 200 feet wide and 40 feet deep.
This will bring the Mediterranean into the heart of
Palestine. In order that the waters of the Dead
Sea may be made to mingle with those of the Red
Sea, it is proposed to out a canel 20 miles in length
from the head of the Gulf of Akabah to the Dead
Sea. If these things are successfully performed,
it is expected that an inland sea, about 200 miles
long, varying in width from three to ten miles, and
deep enough to float vessels of the largest size,
would extend from the Mediterranean to the Red
Sea. This is a an old scheme.
“From all appearances” (says the Rum,
apropos of the Coogee suicide) “ he must have fas-
tened the rooe—a now clothes line—to the ledge,
and then piled up a number of small stones on
another ledge just underneath. Then standing on
the top of the pile, he must have fastened the
noose (the Evening Noose) around his neck, and
kicked himself off to eternity. The fearful deter-
mination that must have inspired the wretched
man is apparent from the fact that he was com-
pelled to draw his knees under him to ensure
strangulation, as the distance between the two
ledgers (sic) was hardly sufficient to accomplish the
suicidal purpose paoperly.” Those two “ledgers”
would seem to Indicate that the Rum’s reporter
made the above weirdly fascinating par by donble
entry.
She was only Harriet Roberts. She
couldn’t trace her family tree farther down than
her grandfather, Pete Roberts, and she lived in
Richmond. She was 69 years old, and was a spin-
ster “ all the time." She took a glass of something
the other night, and, however it came, she fell. The
intelligent bobby for once did what was right.
“She’s not drunk,” said he, “but she’s uncon-
scious with a fall, and has broken something.” He
took her to the hospital. Then science came at her
and said “ There’s nothing broke, take her to the
look-up.” She was kept there all night, “going
from fit to fit,” and then she was humped back
again to the hospital. Then she died. Then Dr.
Syme post-mortemed her, and found that it was
fracture of the skull ailed her all along. Then
Harriet was “ lumbered ” out and put in the grave.
Some time ago, Ah Sue, a Chinese inter-
preter in Queensland, petitioned the Governor to
he allowed to become a naturalised British subject.
His petition was refused on the grounds that he
was a married man and, could not be naturalised as
his wife was not living. The petition passed
through the hands of Brunton Stephens, who added
these lines to the official reply:—
“ Oh! William Ah Sue, I am sorry for you, but what
can we do ?
If the wife of your bosom goes clear out of view,
’neath the daisies and dew,
We cannot break through the Act even for you,
But wuy don’t you woo Mrs. Sue number two,
And in this way anew qualify for your due ?
That’s what I would do if I, Sir, were you,
Believe me, yours truly, my poor Mr. Sue.”
Terr good verso this to out on » Chinaman.
David Syme has now on his hands a few
first-class libel actions. Mr. David H. Crichton, an
agricultural editor (O, memories of Mark Twain!)
is suing him for £3000, for republishing from the
Castlemainb Leader a letter written by one
Shroeder, in respect to which Mr. Crichton is
going at the latter paper for £3000, and at Schroe-
der for a similar amount. The admirable Crichton
is a very raild-looking person, whom no one would
suspect for a moment of being so rapacious. Then
Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove are suing the
Age and Leader, which have been cauterising
the long theatrical firm with unsparing severity,
for something under a million; and that very bril-
liant and accomplished young gentleman, Mr.
Musgrove, has also a libel action on his own ac-
count, against Mr. Syme’s paper. The feud be-
tween Williamson and Co. and the Age probably
dates from the evening when Mr. Moore, treasurer
of the Melbourne Opera-house, assaulted Mr.
Alfred Moul, the musical critic of the Age. David
Syme keeps a legal bulldog—J. L. Purves—on his
premises.
Badham says;—“There are many men in
8ydi eywho have no leisure but in the evening,
and who would be very glad to make use of that
leisure for pursuing University studies and ob-
taining a degree. These person cannot attend our
lectures, delivered a they are in the morning,
nor could the professors be expected to deliver
evening lectures In addition to their other work.
The time which such students have at their com-
mand being shorter, they cannot be expected to
make as rapid progress as those who nave the
whole day at their command, but I do not see why
they should not arrive at the same goal at a slower
rate of advancement; that is to say,if three years
are sufficient for the attainment of a degree in
Arts in the case of those who have no other oc-
cupation to distract them, a longer period might
be required of those who have fewer hours at their
dally disposal. Suppose that we had a five years’
course for this latter description of student, &c.”
This is a very good idea, but how about the pro-
fessors not being expected to deliver evening
lectures. Why should they not be expected to do
so under equitable arrangements? Some of them
are able to And lots of spare time between 10 a.m.
and 5 p.m. for the transaction of business not in
any way connected with their chairs.
Some years ago a Russian named Medvit-
sky married a young girl of infamous conduct.
On becoming convinced that his wife continued to
lead her old life after her marriage with him,
Medvitsky ran away from her. He then found
employment with a tailor, whose establishment he
soon became master of by marrying his patron’s
daughter. This second step in matrimony, prov-
ing likewise a failure (Galignani and Paris
Figaro say—for reasons very similar to those
which induced Medvirsky to pay his adleux to
wife No. 1), he fled anew, and opened a shop in St.
Petersburg, where he thrived and soon married a
third time. The second wife, however, having at
last ferreted him out, claimed her husband. The
trial began, and got into the newspapers, which
fact elicited the appearance upon the scene of the
first wife. The judges and the jury unanimously
justified the accused, and sent the two previous
wives about their business. This may not have
been sound law, but it strikes us having been both
justice and common sense. We have seen very
much worse divorce laws doled out in Australia at
a c<ist of more than a hundred guineas a day. If
this is a fair sample of Russian law, let us have,
say we, some Russian Judges tor a change.
How the telegraph is worked in N.S.W.
According to the “ delayed ” system, a ten-word
message can be sent to any part of this colony for
6d. subject to the proviso that it is to be held back
until the lines are clear of full-rate business. This
Is the regulation, but as the operatives here are
kept on until all the day’s work is finished, and are
not allowed a cent of overtime for It, it is only
natural that they will do all they can to occasion-
ally squeeze a half-price message in with a full one.
The country station-master receiving a “ delayed ”
telegram is supposed to keep it in fils office until
after 6 p.m. But these hardly-worked badly-paid
officials are only mortal after all; and it a “delayed”
wire comes for the police magistrate, or any other
bigwig, say at 10 a.m., and the rightful owner is
close at hand, who would blame the station-master
from honouring the law in the breach for once
in his life-time ? That this is done is therefore no
reflection on the lightning-dodgers. Again. The
charge for ten words to Brisbane is 3s. To cheapen
this, we know several prudent persons who work
the oracle thus:—A “delayed” message for Bris-
bane, timed (say) 5 p.m-, is handed into the Sydney
office to be posted via Tenterfleld. This only costs
6d. (and out of this 6d. the N.8, Wales Government
has to pay 2d. for a stamp); the message is posted
at Tenterfleld, goes on by the first train from Stan •
thorpe, and is delivered at Brisbane early next
morning. Business houses which close at 5 p.m.,
and seldom start the day’s work before 10 a.m.,
must find this a great saving; and we trust they
will soon see the advlsabloness of presenting some-
one with the usual testimonial. No wonder our
telegraphic returns are unsatisfactory.
The following will convey some idea of the
character of the Hovas, who are now fighting the
French at Madagascar. We quote from a Sydney
paper published in 1848 :—■ The Democratic
Pacifique publishes a letter giving a horrible
account of the atrocities committed at Madagascar
by the Hovas, upon an English soldier. After de-
scribing a feast amongst the Hovas chiefs, at the
establishment of a French traitor, who, with an-
other traitor of the same nation, are stated to have
exulted in the victory of the Hovas over the
British and French expedition against Madagascar,
and giving an account of the disgusting mutila-
tions of the bodies of the slain, the writer says:
‘ Whilst this debauch was going on (two days after
our defeat), word was brought that an Englishman
had just come out of the brushwood, imploring
that his life might be spared. It appears that
during the tight an unfortunate wounded English
soldier had crept into the bushes, and remained
concealed, a melancholy witness of the mutila-
tions inflicted upon his comrades. For forty-
eight hours he bore the pangs of his
wound, and of hunger and thirst; but being
unable to bear up longer, he came from
his hiding place, and advanced towards the Hovas,
showed his wound, delivered up his musket, and
ent eated them to give him a little water. The
chief Massouma, without deranging himself from
the banouet, sent to the Governor for orders.
Razakaflay, the Governor, desired that the man
might be put to death. There were at his table
several Frenchmen, who did not even open their
mouths or ask for the life of this poor Englishman,
who had bravely fought by the side of our coun-
trymen. You will think, perhaps, that this unfor-
tunate man was killed with a stroke of the sagaye.
The Hovas have a different mode of taking ven-
geance on a disarmed enemy. They stripped him
naked, and then five or six officers, with their
knives, and in the midst of the circle which had
been formed, began pricking him in the tenderest
parts of his body. The soldier, who was extended
on the ground, rose, as by an effort of heroism,
and received their thrusts standing. At this time
there were not less than five or six bleeding wounds
of the sagaye which he had received in battle, and
the blood streamed from the new wounds inflicted
by his assailants. His face was of a livid paleness,
but it wore an air of contempt for his butchers.
The Movas, whilst these horrors proceeded, set
up shouts of triumph. Seeing that the English-
man defied their blows, the monsters laid hold of
him and began to tear opt the nafla of his hands
and feet. He bore even this bravely for a time,
but at length sank to the ground exhausted, and
closed his eyes. The Hovas then cut off his
fingers, and different portions of his flesh, after
which they proceeded to the last and most cruel
operation. Having done this, they stabbed him to
the heart and cut off his head. Finally, they put
into their mouths portions of the flesh removed
by the horrible operation which preceded the coup
de grace, and went off triumphantly to fix the head
on a stake.’ ”
“All flesh is grass,” saith the Scripture.
This must have been the sort of grass old
Nebuchad thrived so successfully on for seven
years.
The Tasmanians, after successfully ac-
climatising the English blackberry, have found to
their sorrow it is becoming a nuisance. The
Cabbage Garden has almost a parallel case, in
her well. Black-Wednesday Berry.
We carve demurely this item from a Never
Never Queensland paper. Read it, then Luke upon
this page and Mark [Phew!—En. B] .-—“This
office.—Mr. A. Love has ceased to be connected
with the Herberton Advertiser. This publica-
tion is in the Ministerial interests, and its dignity
cannot be manifested while one of its principal
officers is avowedly of contrary political opinions.
Hence Mr. Love’s retirement.” This par. is lovely
in a double sense. Here now are editorial dignity
and managerial majesty mingled. You’d think
that the man who could write like this would issue
it from a book-bound sanctum, he abated on a
morocco throne, and be of a noble and magnificent
mien. Yes. But it’s notqufe that. - Imagine to
yourselves a small Jew seated on an editorial
throne composed of two begged Schnapps-
cases, and inditing his immortal screed upon
an 18-inch-wide plank balanced on two home-
made tressles. The ink is in a mug, and the
kerosene can is used as a rest for the editorial
feet. In size, the office would be too large for a
dog-kennel, but not large enough for a sheep-pen.
It is built of gaping slabs, and has a tin roof you
could cook a chop on any time after 10 a.m. The
office was, at one time, a shepherd’s hut; then it
was a butcher’s shop; afterwards four Chinamen
lived there, and when they left in disgust the
editor brought in his handful of fourth-hand type
and, his little Eagle press, and started. He com-
menced with about 60 subscribers, and was princi-
pally paid in beef, Crimean shirts, and garden-
stuff. But he has got on since; and if things only
prosper a bit this summer, he hopes to be able to
get a double demy, and also a big bag of “pyed” long
primer up at Cooktown which he has long had his
eye on. Too much “ dignity” on his part, there-
fore, cannot be manifested.
A SPOILED IDYLL I
The Selector’s Suit.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am but a freo-solector, poor and penniless, and
troubled
With arrears of debts upon me, till my back is
nearly doubled:
In my face is little beauty, in my eyes is little
splendour,
In my arm is little strength, but in my heart is love
most tender.
Ah I—
I’m so fond of you, my lassie, I’m so fond of you,
my honey,
Nothing in the world will do me but the bonds of
matrimony.
When I loved in times departed, it was lightly done
and gaily,
I danced round my girls with rapture, and electri-
fied them dally;
Then my hair was black and curly, and with lemon-
oil was glossy,
And my eyes were full of radiance, and ray lips
were pert and saucy.
But — ,
I’m so fond of you, my lassie, &c.
When I married Jane, I did it in the warmth of
boyish passion.
In that sort of airy giddiness that ought to get the
lash on
Well and truly where’t would feel it, for I tell you
it’s inhuman
For a young fellow to get the charge of caring for
a woman.
Ah I—
I’m so fond of you, my lassie, &c.
I am twice the man I used to be in ail my kindly
feelings,
Even though I’m slow in toeing it, and heavy in
my heelings;
Ah, do listen to me, darling, you are young and full
of beautv,
And you’ll find your old selector ever faithful to
his duty.
For—
I’m so fond of you, my lassie, &c.
It’s the heart you ought to study, and if mine
stood bare before you.
You would see it blithe and merry, ducking for-
ward to adore you.
Coo-eel Yupl My own, my lovey, yor can trust to
your protector.
And be sure of peace and happlnesl) along with
your selector.
Ah 1—
I'm so fond of you, my lassie, &c.


Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREA L’ LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favourite remedy. We all suffer more
or less from liver lomnlaint, thereby hindering
other organs from ( ullilang their functions. Set
the liver in order by taking the above remedy, and
heart, lungs, brain, and stomach will unite in
graceful chorus.
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The true invigorator. If your vital forces are
depressed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of coming
disaster, your liver is unequal to its work. To
obviate all these sym otoms there is no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABBAHOTS FILLS,
T he great Health Restorer. A vast proportion of
t ie maladies and ailments attacking the human
frame are really due t o a disordered liver. Set this
organ in order and health returns as if by magic.
CAUTION (O THE PUBLIC.
■As there are imitations, ask for ABRAHAM’S
V I LS. See that each box, by whomsoever sold,
b i * i the inventor’s name and trade mark. The
L i - on.tory,
434 George Street, Sydney.
T|/f on t V LOANS (i RANTED at moderate inte-
*l_ rc‘t on Furnture (without possession),
Doe ih, Hi •nds. Certificates, Shares, or other Secu-
rities. pa s'a hi e to suit • onvenienoe.
No Deduction made from amount Required,
which wt'. ie paid in I all within twelve hours of
application.
MONT DE . Tb CENTRAL LOAN OFFICE,
9s >.■ inci.iieaoh Street,
One i at c of King Street.
NO CLASSES,
C i OUR OWN GAS,
and
WORK
GENERA
Apply to
t>. KEtiLY AND CO.,
71 Goud t.ni-street, Sydney.
Dealers in Portaiud Gas, Gasaliers, Lamps,
Fluid. Comfort, Economy, and Safety.
Mr. EceJy, on behalf of the Patent Portable Gas
Co:, hud charge of the lighting of the hall and
supper rooms at the H ay Demonstration, and the
ligating of Croydon Station. He undertakes to
teach his customers in three minutes the mode of
lighting.
A liberal discount wil I be given to storekeepers
on remittances per orders, and goods forwarded
with quick despatch. Orders and remittances to
be sent to the above address. No orders attended
to without remittance.
LIST OF PRICES:
4 Light Gasalier
3 do do
3 do do
Wall bracket lamp, burn Ifi hours
do do 9 do
Table lamps, 3 branch
do 1 do
Brass Brackets
All Globes and Fittings
Fluid, in cases, 8 gal
1 gal. fluid gives a light equal to 13s worth kero
sene. Instructions as to Ho mode of lighting sent
to clients with despatch of goods.
Goods sent to all pai ts of the Colonies,
70s
50s
35s to 45s
17s 6d
15s
60s
45s
40s
5s extra
3s 6d per gal.
EVERY DESCRIPTION OF FISHING TACKLE.
Wholesale and Retail.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE STREET.
DINNER,
ONE SHILLING.
£
X
f/3
r.
a a
M «
> B
PITT STREET,
NEXT TATTERS ALL’S.
All HI cals One Miillinsr
J. C. GREENFIELD, Proprietor.
%
ERNEST CARTER,
Wardell Saw and Planing Mills,
RICHMOND RIVER.
tW All Timber is thoroughly seasoned before it
leaves these Mills, and is very light for carriage
up-country, and tit for immediate use.
PINE, CEDAR, BEECH, FLOORING, LINING.
Mouldings, Architraves. The Trade only Supplied.
,A. GOHMiANi
Late of the Telegraph Hotel, Inverell,
HAS OPENED THE
‘ Clare3TL<d.c3D.,’
Corner of ELIZABETH & PARK Streets,
And which he intends to keep as a first-class Hotel,
A. G. hopes, by strict attention to Business, to
gain a share of their PATRONAGE. V ISITORS
will find this surpasses most of the leading
HOTELS for ACCOMODATION and every CON-
VENIENCE ; and, as it overlooks HYDE PARK, it
must necessarily be W ELL VENTILATED.
SUITES of ROOMS for FAMILIES,
as per agreement.
HOT and COLD WATER BATHS.
PORTER in Attendance Day and Night.
It Is not necessary to mention the quality of the
WINES, SPIRITS. BERKS, k<\ &c„ as he f* and al-
ways has been, noted throughout th« COLONIES
tor selling nothing but the very best.
THE AUSTRALIAN
Diamond Drill Company.
CONTRACTS will be undertaken by the above
Company to bore any sized holes, vertical or
horizontal, up to
3 INCHES, OR LARGER IF REQUIRED,
to any depth, at a reduction of 35 PER CENT.
BELOW ANY - PREVIOUS CHARGE.
The Company, in all cases, will find their own
fuel and water for drilling’ purposes, and will make
no charge for loss of diamonds or wear and tear on
plant, and will also provide workmen engineers, &c.
83?" The new duplex barrel, Introduced into the
colony by Mr, J. Coghlan, will be used free of
charge to persons searching for minerals.
Mr. Coglan has every confidence, from his prac-
tical knowledge of the Diamond Drill, that he will
be able to give general satisfaction, as well as quick
despatch to all ordciB addressed to the
Temporary Offices, 311 George-street.
JOHN COGHLAN,
General Manager, pro. tem.
Singer’s Sewing Machines.
TURNER & CO.
Are the Recognised Agents of the
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS:
2s. fid. per week—3s. 6d. per week—3s. fid. per week.
And no interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE “SINGER,”
TURNER & COMPANY,
353 George-street.
THE ONLY “SINGER.”
Turner and Company,
678 GEORGE STREET.
nniRBURG
l/U! TAILOI
VISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT. 170 PITT STREET,
FOB
CHEAPNESS, FIT, AND WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any
part of the Colony.
Pianos! Pianos! Pianos!
FREE TRADE and NO MONOPOLY.
Live and Let Live, these are Our Mottoes.
It is a well-known fact that the Foundations o
Colossal Fortunes have been established upon the
Profits arising from the SALE OF PIANOS in this
City during the past Twenty Years by those
having little or no knowledge of the Construction
and Details of the Pianoforte. While giving the
Public the benefit of our Mr. Young's 35 years’
personal practical experience (5 years in John
Broadwood and Sons, London, and 20 in N.8.W.),
we will, at the same time, be satisfied with a fair
percentage on the Co-operative Principle, sharing
the Profits with our Customers. We will sell from
35 per cent, less than the same class of Instrument
can be Purchased at any Music Shop in Sydney,
and we will offer nothing for Sale we cannot
guarantee. American Organs at proportionately
low prices. Also a Larpe Stock of Kohn’s Cele-
brated Austrian Furniture, a single article of
which we are selling at Wholesale Prices.
Come and See Our LITTLE BEAUTIES In Wal-
nut and Full Iron Frame, at £25 cash, Eleswhere
£10 more, or under a Liberal Time Payment Sys-
tem.
George E. Young and Co.,
W 286 PITT STREET,
South of Royal Arcade.
\
I;
I
/(YALA'l
■rnueuAiiTY
WHITUAJDj,
1, V/Wl
\
%
m
“ I’m out of form. Can’t keep up to work.”
“ Oh, if that’s all, old man, I’ll have you as brisk as a
cricket in a jiffy. Here, Waiter! large bottle of
Ayala’s White Label. This is a wine one can’t get
everywhere; and if it doesn’t set you up, Frank, I’ll
give vou a new hat.”
BBT mi ft BO.,
AGENTS.
BRIDGE-STREET CHAMBERS
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
tW THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. MatiArod.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.'S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottled in bond for Ex* rt at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, t refore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ hlskey Doctors."
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 Park Street,
IMPORTERS
of
PIANOS,
by every maker
of renown, from
£25 and up-
wards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE
COFFEE PALACE,
231 GEORGE STREET NORTH.
JOHN JOHNSON, Proprietor.
HAVING opened the above, the Proprietor has
supplied a want long felt in Sydney. The
first floor contains spacious Ladies and Gentle-
men’s Dining and Drawing Rooms, also Suites and
Single Bedrooms (viz., 45 bedrooms), will be open
shortly. A trial solicited.
CALL AND INSPECT.
THOMAS MUNRO,
HERALDIC ARTIST AND ENGRAVER,
PLAIN AND FANCY STATIONER.
10 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
A Large and varied assortment of Letter Books,
Account Books, and all office requisites. Purses,
Albums, Plush Bags, and Reticules; Artists’ Mate-
rials, Photo, and Picture Frames, Illuminated
Scripture and other texts. Birthday, Condolence,
and Memorial Cards.
Agent for August Huenerbein for Pianos, Or-
gans, and Music. The Engraving workshop being
under my own management, I feel confident in
suiting the public taste.
AMERICAN MIXED PAINTS
A. & T. PRINGLE & CO.,
IMPORTERS OF MACHINERY , &c.,
44 MARKET STREET
(Between York and Clarence Streets, Sydney),
HAVE received a supply of these celebrated
PAINTS, prepared tor immediate use. For
brilliancy of colour and elegance of finish they far
surpass anything that has been offered to the
public. They can be applied by anyone, either on
wood or iron.
Also for sale—Kalsomine, all kinds of Lubricating
and Machinery Oils, Bidwell’s Axle Grease, &c.
Prices on application.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
WIRE WORKERS,
WISH to call your attention to WIRE GOODS
we make and have in stock as under
FLOWER STANDS, for holding flowers in pots,
made of iron and wire, handsomely framed and
bronzed, suitable for rooms, halls, balconies, ver-
andahs, and conservatories. Also, WIRE FERN
BASKETS, all sizes and prices.
SIEVES and SCREENS, for screening lime,
gravel, coal, &c., all meshes, from 1 hole to 100
holes to the squares inch.
WIRE LATTICE-WORK, for protection of win-
dows from breakage caused by hail-storms or boys’
throwing stones. Also, WIRE NETTING, all sizes,
from 12 in. to 72 in. wide.
CAGES of every description, for canaries and
narrots, singly or in nests, suitable for store-
keepers.
And every description of WIRE WORK made on
the premises.
EASTWAY, BROTHERS,
413 GBORGE-STREET.
fW Illustrated Catalogues on application.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
FOWLER’S POTTERY and
BRICKWORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
IHE FEDERAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA
(Limited)
Incorporated under Act of Parliament.
CAPITAL, £1000,000 ; SUBSCRIBED, £685,000.
Directors •
The Hon. W. A. Brodrihb, M.L.C., Chairman.
W. H. Eldred, Esq., J.P. I F. T. Humphery, Esq.,
Robert Hudson, Esq. M.P.
I J. Y. Mills, Esq., J.P.
Manager ; F. S. Macdermott.
Accountant: John Docker.
Solicitors : Messrs. Robertson, Fisher, and Ralfe.
Temporary Banking House, 237 George-street,
North, with branch at the Haymarket.
Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies
and in Europe.
Highest rates of interest given on Deposits, and
all usual Banking business transacted without
delay to customers.
P. S. MACDERMOTT, Manager.
IV. H. A riel I and Co.’s Agencies.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, Canter-
bury, Normanby, and Christinas Family Cakes,
Plum Puddings, Mincemeat, Self-raising
Alrated Flour, Infant’s Food, Treacle ana
Golden Syrup.
EXCELSIOR MILLS.—Superior Victorian Oat-
meal and Pearl Barley.
DILLON & BURROWS* prize assorted Confec-
tionery.
J. KITCHEN & SONS, No. 1 Mottled and ToUet
Soaps.
J. F. M r KENZIE & CO.’S Coffee, Mustard, Cocoa.
Tea, in and Ub. packets ; dressed Rice,
and Patent Groats.
HUNT & CO.’S Prize Baking Powders, Adelaide
Jams Paper Bags, &c.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
gECURE A LOT AT SPR1NQSIDE,
£1 DEPOSIT, £1 PER MONTH.
FORTUNATUS FINANCIAL, LAND, AND
INVESTMENT COMPANY,
er 317 PITT STREET,
Near Temperance Hall.
DANCING.— Prof. WEST’S Classes. — Private
Lessons, Monday and Thursday mornings;
afternoon classes, Thursdays. Evening: Beginners,
Mondays, 8 p.m.; Thursdays, 7.30 p.m.; Advanced,
8.30 p.m., at TatteVsall’s New Hall, Hunter-street.
Second term now commencing. During present
school holidays there will be time for private
lessons in new waltz, &c. 251 Ellzabeth-street.
CP” The Dancing Academy being the largest in
Sydney, there are now vacancies, quarter dating
from entrance.
SHOUT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEOTARD'S SHORT HORN BOURBON.-The
drink of the army', navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; It has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNO & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
THE HARWOOD
Fibre Chair Seating,
Possessing all the qualities of a perfect seat, viz. ;
Strength, Durability, Ease, Beauty, Cleanliness
and Cheapness.
T* HIS CHAIR SEAT is made from the strongest
known fibres and a perfectly waterproof
cement, and after fifteen years’ constant use, we
can speak positively as to its merits. It cannot
split or check, neither will exposure to sun or rain
affect it.
Awarded Gold Modal at the late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
For RE-SEATING it is unrivalled. In every
house, store and office, are chairs with seats broken.
Any person can re-seat and make as good as new a
chair that is otherwise worthless, at a very trifling
expense.
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE FOR HOME USE.
Agents Wanted in Every District.
From £3 to £5 a week can be made by any smart
man or boy in his own neighbourhood.
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
VW THE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco of the Age I
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The only Tobacco combining Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Price.
|3?” Each PLUG is STAMPED with the word
“EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain it.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
Smell’s Toliacct Go., Lisi.
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
And can be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse,
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO-
Registered according to Act of Parliament, to pro-
tect the public against spurious and worthless
imitations.
NICHOLS & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
83 CLARENCE STREET.


i
C °Uhj RUMfO^
rJS
•3219
Prepared according’ to the directions o. Prof.
E. N. Hereford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICUIiARIiY RECOMMENDED FOR
DYSPEPSIA, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA, WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY. &C.
No Danger can Attend its Use.
Nervous Depression from Overwork.
Sluggish Circulation and li rowing Chil-
dren.
Sandusky. O., May 31,1880,
I have used your Acid Phosphate and can pro-
nounce it a very valuable addition. I find It use-
ful and beneficial in nervous dyspepsia, nervous
depression following overwork and anxiety, as well
as the gastric derangements. Where there is
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation, a dull,
heavv head, it is of undoubted value. Fast grow-
ing children require this valuable addition.
W. R. PAGE, M.D.
Liver and Kidney Derangements.
Boston, Mass., May 18,1880.
In regard to the Hereford’s Acid Phosphate, I
have used it very extensively, and with the most
remarkable success.
I give it in dyspepsia and in all cases where there
is derangement of the liver and kidneys. With
my patients it has agreed wonderfully.
O. G. GILLEY, M.D,
Nerve Tonic.
A. S. Carpenter, M.D., Keene, N.H., says :
“ Hereford's Acid Phosphate is a valuable medi-
cine. I have taken it myself, and for several
years prescribed it for my patients, when suffering
from indigestion or innervation of the digestive
organs, and always with satisfactory results. It is
a good nerve tonic, and in some cases of morbid
urine, ‘ it acts like a charm,’ prdduciug the desired
result. It is pleasant to the i aste, acceptable to the
stomach, and is, in my opinion, an excellent and
valuable compound.”
Can be borne by the most Sensitive
Stomachs.
Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 1880.
Hereford’s Acid Phosphate, in elegance of com-
position, stands unrivalled. It is pleasant to the
taste, and can be borne by the most sensitive
stomach. Have prescribed it with marked benefit
in Indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms an
excellent substitute for lemon juice, and as such
will furnish a refreshing drink for the sick.
A. L. HALL, M.D.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
“ It Works like a Charm.”
It is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches fire. It cures
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Bruises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an Internal remedy It tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Save Throat, and Dyp-
tlierla.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use in
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers In
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best Imported into this country, and have
gained throughout the colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the Iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. 1
leather, and the upholstery Is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their finish
BECAUSE they ure each and all built under special
instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage builders in America,
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say they are the
best.
American Carriage Emporium,
WTNTAED SQUARE, S YDNEY.
BARRON, MOXHAM & CO.,
Sole Agents#
THE AUSTRALIAN CROWN
COLONY.
Dear Bulletin,— West Australian society con-
sists of—firstly, the original immigrants of 1839 and
such few immigrants since as have remained with-
out Hitting eastward ; secondly. Crown officials
and military pensioners ; thirdly, convicts and
their descendants. Each class is distinctive and
clannish. The llrst is sleepy and old-fashioned,
and cannot understand the world's progress. Not-
withstanding that some of their number have
visited civi lizution, they have returned little im-
proved to Western Australia, and settled down to
their old humdrum existence. It is amusing to
visitors from England and from the other colonies
to aeo with what aversion and suspicion the old
c donists look upon new-chums. Last year, when
strong reports were current to the effect that pay-
able gold had been found, one of the “Twenty
niners” observed: “Oh dear. Hope it's not true
it will bring so many strangers from the othe
sidel”—the “other side” being the contomptuou
designation applied by these venerable identltle
to the barbarous and unenlightened colonies o:’
Victoria and N.S.W. Although throe syndicate
are at present competing to build railways anc
harbour works in W.A., it would not bo surprising
if the “old hands” objected to the introduction
of capital and labour. The Crown officials ant
pensioners look down with sovereign contempt on
the “ Twenty-niners,” and all shrink with horror
from the poor convict people and their children
whom they trample on as opportunity offers
though it frequently happens that the latter are
■much more respectable than a largo percentage of
the other classes. Till last year, any person pro-
ceeding to the eastern colonies was obliged to
obtain a passport before leaving W.A. to indicate
that the bearer was not a convict, but this state o; 1
things has fortunately ceased. Everything In
W.A. is 100 years behind the age. Though the
colony can produce sufficient food for Its
people, yet, owing to laziness and want of
enterprise, the bulk of its flour, butter, cheese
bacon, and fruit comes from the far East. Shoulc
a stranger enter a shop, he is eyed superciliously
and subjected to port Insolence if he expresses
astonishment when told that what he requires wll
come in three months by the sailing ship Charlotte
Rodbury (called after the wife of a successfu
butcher in the so-called metropolis). The truck and
discount systems are general in W.A.—if you in-
vest in a tooth-brush, you are refunded a penny
discount. It is with difficulty that the most common-
place commodities can be obtained. For instance,
a Victorian who recently arrived, bringing with
him an anucapnlc lamp, the globe of which he
broke, searched Perth and Fremantle In vain for
another, and learned that such globes had not vet
been used there, while ihe rubbish and old-
fashioned goods of the English market are Imported
and sold at enormous profits. Storekeeplng is
most primitive; in the principal street of Perth,
near the Town-hall, a shopkeeper sells a pot, in
order to deliver which ho removes his wares from
his verandah, locks up his shop, sallies forth with
the pot under his arm, and walks nearly a mile to
the house of the buyer. Another has over his door
“ Jeweller to His Excellency the Governor;” enter,
and you will find chronometers and cabbages in
juxtaposition. The Government means the Gov-
ernor, who, however, has a council of advice called
the Legislatl vo Council—which Council has a retired
grocer and knight for its Speaker at the splendid
salary—quite as much as he’s worth—of £150 a year.
The Chairman of Committees is a Scotch baronet,
whoso salary is £100 a year, and who adds to his
income by scribbling for a local newspaper,
and, it is popularly supposed, also for certain
Eastern papers. A contin ental typo-war is waged
between the throe or four newspapers pub-
lished in Perth. The baronet’s sheet assumes
superiority, and apes culture—it would not defile
its pages with police reports. Recently a kind of
milk and water agitation has sprung up to obtain
the same form of government as the other Austra-
lian colonies possess, but the few elected members
of the Council, being of the squatter and moneyed
class, with a £1000 qualification, ignore and shelve
the question, well-knowing that they would not
bo chosen under the wished-for regime. Besides,
they control the patronage in Government appoint-
ments, and eagerly snatch up for their relatives
every paltry miserable office which falls va-
cant. Place-hunters hover round His Excellency’s
little court like sharks round a piece of pork.
It would repay a visitor from “ the other side ” to
get cntrtfo to Government House on the occasion
of a ball. There you see in conventional swallow-
tail the very milkman who on the morning of that
same day delivered your matutinal pint of sky-
blue; you see the letter-stamper in the same set
with the Postmaster-General, who, though he has
but £450?a year, and is not a C.M.G. yet, can spell
“January” properly. But very fine lines of de-
marcation exist at Government House, for all
that. A man may be excluded on account
of the bar-sinister, while his wife and family
are received ; and society, of course, adopts
Government House etiquette regarding these
latter. But one house in a hundred has eave-shoots
and water-tanks; the soil is generally of sand, and
latrines are built In close proximity to wells. So
that diphtheria, typhoid, &c., appear regularlv.
Though blessed with a climate perhaps superior,
on the whole, to that of any of the other Aus-
tralian colonics, epidemics often gain footing in
Perth and Fremantle, which are contiguous, and
contain about 13,000 inhabitants. New-chums, in
the shape of a (jouplo of competent medical men,
would find ample practice here.
SWAN QUILL.
Throe Jewish divorce cases at one sittings.
HolyAtoses!
The Farkes-Sutherland Government re-
fused to allow a private company to open up Lake
Macquarie on a land-grant basis. We aren't sure
whether it was all the land in the district or only
half, that the syndicate wanted. But, whatever it
was, they also domandod'the right to charge 6d.
per ton royalty on all coal passed out of the har-
bour through the entrance cut by them. This, of
course, would have constituted a handicap of 0d
per ton on coal raised from any land in the district
except their own, and would, practically, have
placed them in possession of a complete monopoly
of the local coal industry. So that the Parkes-
Suthorland Government merely refused to accord
them just such a privilege as the people of Queens-
land are almost unanimously refusing to grant
railway syndicates in that colony.
The Rum printed the last bit of the per-
oration of Dean Cowper’s Synod address thusly
“Hoconcluded with an eloquent appeal to Eng-
lish churchmen to “present Christianity to the
world, in their lives, in their spirit, in their words,
and in their actions, in such a way that men might
feel its attractive power, and the place they oc-
cupied be made hitter by their presence.” When
the Dean read that “ bitter” in that context he
waxed wroth and wept sore. Oddly, though,
the Hum by a lluke hit off the precise effect of
“ Evangelical” conduct. It does make Sour,
sullen, and exasperating!y bitter.
A company has been starter! search the
bottoms of the Bed Sea and th; Bitter lakes,
for the jewellery dropped by flu Egyptians in
their memorable and fatal passage. The propnetoi s
should not expose their Ignorance like this Con-
sidering the Jews “froze” to everything they
could put their paws on the night they started,
and as in those days they were just as clever in
cleaning out an Egyptian ns they are to-day in
skinning a Christian —what do the explorers expect
to tlnd V Now, if by any fortunate chance some-
body had stolen Moses’ rod, on the occasion, and
brought the waters together before the Israelites
commenced to “shin up” the other side, there
would be some reason for this company, and
pawnbrokers would be as extinct as the dodo. We
nave always hejd that the wrong army was
di owned there, and we are not alone in the belief.
It is droll to look over a London theatrical
?apor, and see how and where some of the leading
.carton actresses live. Hero, we see Kate Santley
resides at “5, Pall Mali,” has another house at
Twickenham, and drives a brougham with a five
hundred-guinea pair of borsesi Yet it is not so
many years ago since Kate was doing three
“turns' a night at the music halls, when she used
to sing a song which began
“ One day I was a playin’ at tip-cat
Along with Killy Bass,
When 1 hit the cat a * oner ’
And broke a pane of glass.”
Now Miss Santley has a theatre of her own, and
only performs in opera. Then there is Ada Caven-
dish, who (and we can understand this better) lives
in a big mansion in Bloomsbury Square. Ban-
croft and Marie Wilton have taken a house
in Berkeley Square (pronounced “Barkly” by
elite— we don’t know why), where rents vary from
£1003 to £1500. They have also a place at Cannes,
and their movements arc chronicled with much
gusto by the dull slobbcrors who perpetrate the
pa's. in the fashionable journals. And it seems
only yesterday when Mario Wilton was dancing in
hardly anything at the Strand Theatre for£6 a
week. All of a sudden, however, she blossoms
forth a manageress, with a theatre named "by
special permission ” “The Prince of Wales’s lloval
Theatre.” Humph I Then Bancroft, who was the
stock spoon of a Liverpool theatre at £4 —or to use
the professional slang “SO white”— a week, appeared
on the scene and married her. And they have
prospered, lima di Murska, as wo all know, lives in
Park Lane, in a house owned by the Earl of Lucan
while the Countess resides (or used to) at the
Alexandra Hotel. Di Murska’s hubby, Hill or
Hillier (conductor at the Strand Theatre), was
“mashed” on Florence St.John, but was cut out
by Marius, who took her away to the Avenue,
and Madame Marius, as everybody knows,
got a divorce in consequence. Funny, all this.
Oh, and we will just relate something about
the Earl of Lucan, who. by the bye, was
in the charge of the Light Brigade, and Gold-
8tlck-in-Walting to the Queen. During the
time certain French plays were being done in
London, a certain actress made herself very popular
with the public, and presumably with Lord Lucan,
for she went to reside (wo don’t say rent free) in
the very bouse now occupied by the lady whom
the U. S. Minstrels used to facetiously designate
“Madame do Musket,” accompanied by her mother
and a French servant. During the absence of the
actress, this servant murdered the old lady, and
made off to Paris with all she could Jay her hands
on. She was, however, easily apprehended while
sharing the plunder with her relatives, and it was
at the inquest and trial that Lord Lucan s Interest
in the drama was first made public. Random
recollections, eh ?
The cultured and caustic Mr. John Shaw,
who has edited the Cumberland Mercury since
1878, is about to resign bis post.
GRACIOUS!
God Save the—People.
When wilt thou save the people ?
Oh, God of mercy, when ?
Not king's and lords, but nations;
Not thrones and crowns, but men!
Flowers of Thy heart, oh, God, are they,
Lot them not pass, like weeds away;
Their heritage a sunless day I
God, save the people!
Shall crime bring crime for ever.
Strength aiding still the strong ?
Is it Thy will, oh, Father,
That man shall toil for wrong ?
“No I” say Thy mountains: “ No,” Thy skies;
“ Man’s cloudless sun shall brightly rise,
And songs be heard instead of sighs.”
God, save the people I
When wi’t Thou save the people ?
Oh, God of mercy, when ?
The people, Lord, the people I
Not thrones and crowns, but menl
God, save the people I Thine they are.
Thy children, as Thy angels fair;
Save them from bondage and despair!
God, save the people!
EBENEZER ELLIOTT.
A WARNING TO IMITATORS.
FREE!
IMITATION. THE WRONG END, OF COURSE.


AND
ND
ALL
CH ZS
:FFEC
L"
Pk
D. & R. BRADFORD,
Ironfounders, General
Blacksmiths, &c.,
“CITY FOUNDRY,”
121 LIVERPOOL STREET
and at
201 ELIZABETH STREET,
Between Bathurst and Park Streets.
All kinds of Ornamental Castings, Wrought Iron
Pal leadings. Wrought and Cast Iron Girders, Cast
Iron Water Pipes, Connections, Water and Fire
Plugs.
Estimates given tor all kinds of Ironwork, &o.
IRKER, GREER, & CO., DISTILLERS
BELFAST and GLASGOW.
LOCH DHU, very oldest and purest Scotch
Whiskey.
SHAMROCK, very oldest and purest Irish
Whiskey.
Won 4 Gold Medals and Australian Exhibitions.
Government Analyst says: Unusually pure,
mellow, and well-matured.
FROM ALL SPIRIT MERCHANTS.
Agent: G. ADAMS,
110 Pltt-st., Sydney, and Flinders-st., Melbournne
IF your Chemist or Grocer cannot or will not
supply you with the “ PAINLESS CORN
RELIEVER, write direct to the Registered Pro-
prietor, who will forward a bottle to all parts of
Australasia, Post Free, for 2s. 6d.
Address:—JOHN CLOWES,
One Mil® Creek, Gymple.
B
RAUN’S WALTHAM WATCHES.
TOOK FIRST PRIZE
And all the Gold Medals at every Exhibition.
MADE ESPECIALLY FOR
B. BRAUN,
Watchmaker, Jeweller, & Optician,
1 gr 376 GEORGE STREET,
Near the Post Office.
The Largest Stock of Waltham Watches In Sydney.
500 to select from.
Silver Walthams from £3 to £12
Gold Walthams from £8 to £45.
Warranted from two to seven years.
tST* Only at B. BRAUN, 376 George Street
BLEND
HrapH
jmark]
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.—This is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
nmlng fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
P. KIBBT,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TJ aa. d.er 1 tsQcer,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen
Manager for over ten (10) years.
years; also.
JOHN DANKS,
IMPORTER OF
Sicjtlt! and bit!
AND ALL THE NECESSARY
Fittings for same,
363 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ASK FOR
Qlfrfitghlonfr HtfriskepN
3^f#i
LATE
"JAMES WALKER
EDINBURGH
Registered
TO be had from ALL WINE AND SPIRIT MER-
CHANTS, and WHOLESALE from the
SOLE AGENTS:
JOSEPH BOYD & SON,
1 CHANGE ALLEY, PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Near the Circular Quay).
To be procured in Cases, Casks, Octaves, and Jars
&T Please read Certificates of its purity ; also.
Certificates from the 43nd Royal Highland Regi-
ment, “THE BLACK WATCH,” and the list High-
land Light Infantry, &c.. &c„ as supplied them by
JAMES WALKER, for 14 years, till ms death, and
still supplied to them by JAMES HADDOW & CO.,
the purchasers of James Walker’s business, with
the right to use his name on all Labels, Invoices,
Seals, and his Trade marks and symbols.
Notice—The above label registered.
JOSEPH BOYD & SON.
WRIGHT, HEATON & CO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE :
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.S.W.:
Northern District, N.8.W.;
Morpeth Brewarrlna
Qunnedah Tam worth
f'arrabri Uralla
Walgett
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Line:
Brisbane Yeulba
Roma Cambooya
Dalby
Rockhampton
Bogantungah
Emerald
Central Lines
Capella
Comet
Northern Line:
Townsville Ravenswood Junction
Charters Towers
Agents In Victoria and South Australia:
WM. MCULLOCH & CO., LIMITED.
W Agencies in all parts of the world.
Yp.
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVE BED.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have yourUmbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
cuted.
Foster’s Bugle Brand.
New South Wales Racing Com-
pany's Consultations
ON
METROPOLITAN STAKES
(To bo RUN at RANDWTCK TUESDAY,
September 4), and
MELBOURNE CUP.
50,000 Shares at 10s. per Share—£35,000.
1st Horse £4000 I Starters £1000
» ~0001 Non-Starters ... 2000
For 149 Horses £10,000
117 Prize Gifts.—266 Prizes in all.
1 Prize Gift .. £4000 I 8 Prize Gifts, at 125 £1000
3 •• •• 3000 1 20 „ at£100 2000
i " 40 •• at 50 2000
3 „ at £500 1000 40 „ at 25 1000
4 „ at 250 1000)
117 Prize Gifts £15,000
Application by letter only, addressed to the Secre-
tary, No. 2 Wentworth Court, Elizabeth-street:
or Box 255, G .P.O., Sydney.
P.S. Applicants will please state for which event.
All parties are requested to forward Drafts. P.O.
Orders, or Cheques ; it Cash, to register letters.
Results sent to Shareholders and published In the
Leading Weekly Papers of the Colonies.
The Drawing will take place before a Committee
of Shareholders.
___ W. BURNHARD.
MaSCOTTE CONSULTATIONS.
METROPOLITAN, & MELBOURNE CUP, 1883.
Metropolitan, 5000 shares at 10s. each ... £2500
Melbourne Cup, 10,000 shares at 10b. each £6000
SYDNEY.
Metropolitan Stakes.
1st Horse £500
2nd
3rd „
Starters..
Non-starters
Prize Gifts
250
125
150
200
1276
MELBOURNE.
Cup.
1st Horse ...
»nd n
3rd
Starters ...
Non-starters...
Prize Gifts ...
£3000
1000
500
200
300
1000
£5000
£2500
Prospectus on application.
The La Mascotte Company thanks the public for
their support in previous consultations, and hopes
for a continuance of their patronage for this pro-
gramme.
Application, by letter only.
Applicants please state for which event.
D. LINDO, No .8 Tattcrsall’s Chambers, Hunter-
street, and Box 723, P.O., Sydney.
08000 on MELBOURNE CUP.
1888. '
The Third Consultation of my 1888 Series.
"AUSTRALASIA” SWEEP.
12,000 Shares, at 5s each.—An even 4, £1.
First Horse
Second Horse ..
Third Horse
Starters divide ..
Non-Starers
Total, £2000
£1000
600
250
150
100
Prizes
Grand total,
IB—
r>—
— ~vw. uiouu tuuil, A/oUUU
The success of former events induces me to an
nounco the next on the Melbourne Cup, th
greatest racing event of the year, as above.
Remits advertised In leading papers, and for
warded to all subscribers. A pound secures fou
chances-NOT one only. Ton per cent, is deducts
for all expenses. Applicants are requested to en
close notes, P.O.O., or crossed cheques (to whlcl
exchange must be added), and 4d. stamps for reol’
and result. Register letters. v '
Address—” AUSTRALASIA,”
Care of Mr. H. J. FRANKLIN,
Printer and Publisher,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
I A M O N D.*
MELBOURNE CUP CONSULTATION 1883.
Capital £10,000 in 20,000 Shares of 10 shillings each
DISTRIBUTED AS FOLLOWS:—
2 Prizes of £250 each, £50C
First Horse..
Second Horse
Third Horse
Starters divide
Non-starters
£3000
2000
1000
1000
500
6 Prizes of 100
10 Prizes of 50
20 Prizes of 26
50 Prizes of 10
£10,000
Application by enclosing stamp, to
Care of O. Schlefellch.
Watchmaker and Jeweller,
17 Little Collins-street Bast, Melbourne,
(Near Colonial Bank.)
Prizes paid one day after drawing, and Horse
paid two days after event.
Result slips posted to each Subscriber, and als
advertised in daily and weekly papers. Shares sen
per return post. Prospectus on application.
Letters containing cash should be registered
If country cheques, must bear exchange.
N.B.—“Diamond,” in thanking numerous client
for their support in previous successful raoltu
seasons, invites their co-operation in the above.
£3000
For 2a. Gd.
<3000
A COLOSSAL FORTUNE for HALF-A-t)ROWN
The “ GREAT VICTORY ” SWEEP on the MEL-
BOURNE CUP, 1883.
To be Run on the 6th November.
CAPITAL
1st horse
2nd horse ..
3rd horse ..
Starters divide
Non-starters do.
20 Prizes at £60
do.
do.
do.
Total.
£10,000, divided into 80,000 Shared .
2s. 6d. each.
Also, over 1000 Prizes guaranteed, and dlstrlbutf
as follows: —
£3000 40 Prizes at £25 ..£H
500
600
250
- - - —— — —.. 1000 Total.. £10D
We shall send 9 tickets for a pound. Not le
than 2 sent to any single address. Send P.O orde
cheques, or bank notes. If stamps are sent, ac
exchange at the rate of Is. in the pound, Shou
coin be sent, register letter. Please send 3d. exti
for membership.
The drawing will take place on the 1st Novembc
and will be conducted by a committee of 150 Shar
holders drawn from the entire body. The resu
will be posted to all Shareholders immediate!
and advertised throughout the colonies.
Tickets sent by return post.
Write at once for prospectus. No ebarc-e
Address—“ VICTORY,” K *
Care Kar*
W. M. WALLACE
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English papers and Magazines received b
every Mall.
ROYAL ARCADE, 496 GEORGE 8T.. SYDNE]
wzm
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
Virgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
&
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ys In STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYBN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &o.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407GEORGE STRb'E'l.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
TO CONNOI8EUR8 of WHISKEY & BRANDY,
W. & A. Gilley’s CASTLE BRAND WHIS-
KEY and L’OR EXTttAIT BRANDY are the
oldest and purest spirits Imported.
TUCKER & CO., Agents,
377 George-street.
H
UST’S BOOT EMPORIUM, 404 Qboegb St.,
near King-street.
Gents' Boots, French Calf or Kid, superior quality,
from 10s. Od.
Superior Ladles’ Extra High Glace Kid Button
Boots, superior quality, from 10s. 6d,
Ladies’ Evening Shoes, a great variety, from is. 6d.
ELBOURNE CUP, 1883
LEVIATHAN “ ADAMASTOR ” COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £20,000 in 40,000 SHARES of 10s Each.
624 PRIZES (more or loss), £13,750 for STARS,
and £7250 for HORSES.
Plan of Astronomical Distribution:
First Horse (winner of the Melbourne Cup)... £3000
Second Horse 1500
Third Horse 750
Starters (divide) 800
Non-starters (do) 1200
V First Star £2000 V
**♦ Second Star 1000 **♦
V Third Star 600 V
J2 stars of £200 each, 100 stars of £100 each, 20
stars of £50 each, 20 stars of £40 each, 45 stars of £25
each, 100 towns of £10 each, 200 towns of £8 each,
85 towns of £6 each, and “ the comet ” £40.
“ Adamastor,” in thanking his subscribers for the
liberal support that he has received from them for
the past three years, and in consequence of the
yearly increase of subscribers, finds it necessary to
double his programme, which he begs herewith to
submit.
All parties are requested to forward drafts, P.O.
orders, or cheques; if cheques, exchange must be
added, and in all cases postage fees; if cash, to
register letter. Application by letter only, ad-
dressed—
“ ADAMASTOR,” care of L.
Bourke-street, west, Melbourne:
Sydney; and Little’s Bass Hotel,
Market Streets, Sydney.
P.S.—Results sent to country shareholders, and
published in The Australasian, Age, and Sydney
Town and Country.
A. Pereira, 34
Box 473, G.P.O.,
corner Pitt and


Thus the Rum :—“ Each mass was truly
requiem and sad, and like the wail of the wor-
shippers, was like the cry of a flock that had lost
Its shepherd.” Our contemporary should ruu au
evening issue to explain its matutinal niccups.
We wore accused wrongfully of chasing
the flying Egyptians with blood-hounds. The
French, however, are importing dogs into Mada-
gascar to give the alarm at night—the only time
when the Hovas attack. At St. Denis they’ve
made a clean sweep of everything canine, from a
grey-hound to a poodle, to supply the army. A
fine chance for a sleep iu the camp when the moon
is as big as the bottom of a wash-tub!
The Royal Terrace is in Nioholson-street,
Fitzroy. Melb., and consists of ten houses, in one of
which the owner, Bryant, resides. His second son
was awoke at 3 a.m. by an alarm ho had set for
thieves. Seizing a revolver he ran down stairs,
and got in front of a thief’s pistol, which inserted a
pellet of lead in his abdomen. Even then he was
not provoked, but thought it time to remonstrate,
when the burglar advanced towards him with a
tomahawk. Then ho fired, and fell fainting while
the robber ran. This is the story. Wo should like
to cross-examine that young man.
Two Turks being brought before a Caliph
one day for Professor-Mi liering each other, the
latter furiously roared: “What the Satan does a
Turk want to kill a Turk for ? Are there not plenty
of Christians about to operate on ?" And this re-
minds us that Mishter Aaron Yaxman, the simple-
minded Hebrew “financier,” has just been sum-
moned for using insulting language to Mr.
Abraham Goldberg. Mr. Goldberg is another
“financier,” and we therefore presume the insult
complained of was conical-shaped and fired out of
a Gatling gun, or it would never have taken effect.
Mishter Vaxman had better keep his Aaron.
Before we talk to the heathen about his
barbarous cruelties, wo should look nearer home,
and study the style of accommodation in the Syd-
ney gaol omnibus, “Black Maria.” On Monday
week men and women were jammed in like her-
rings in a cask; and. as the majority of these pas-
sengers were “drunks” from the Saturday pre-
vious, the atmosphere must have been horrible.
“ Maria” is no respecter of persons, and your “ born
gentleman” has to shiver and shake side by side
with the most disreputable inebriate in existence,
whilst meek-eyed matrons and modest maids are
forced to sit on the knees of men who are entire
strangers to them. If we have any desire to keep
up our revenue returns, we must make “Maria’
more worthy of publie patronage.
The other evening the Sydney Gym-
nasium held its tenth quarterly “ sociable,” when
Instructors D’Harcourt and Cansdell, together
with some twenty members, went through a
variety performance, with the various gymnastic
fittings, in their well-appointed Hall, Liverpool-
street, in the presence of a large audience, includ-
ing a big sprinkling of the fair sex, to whom
D’Harcourt’s graceful and finished club-swinging,
to waltz time by the three Italian noblemen who
composed the orchestra, must have been specially
suitable. By the way, we were knocked all of a
heap but, stay, we’ll give it In doggerel :—
Wo looked with wonder when we saw
The prefix of “ Professor,"
For how the title came to him
Quite puzzled every guesser.
But soon we got a chance to ask,
Where he had graduated;
He merely cast a withering look,
And massive chest intlatcd.
Again we asked what ho professed.
Law, literature, or drastics ?
He drew his mighty biceps up,
And answered us: “ Gymnastics ;
“ I claim to lift the biggest weight,
With wrestler now I tussle,
Wo thought— but hadn’t pluck to say—
His brain had rim to muscle.
Cansdell, D’Harcourt, and Haege were far and
away the best on the horizontal and parallel bars,
and Bowormau did some showy and risky tricks on
the trapeze, &c. Although Cansdell has taken
a big leap in an unexpected direction, we must
pay him the compliment that his finished perform-
ances on Thursday evening proved he is no slouch
in the new path of life which he has chosen. The
weak spot in the show was the boxing, between
D’Harcourt and Loose, which must have given the
ladles present about as good an idea of a scientific
set-to as would the Hon. John, M.L.C., and the
Zoological Society’s Jumbo, if they donned the
mittees. As the evening was intended to show the
every-day training of the Gymnasium, and not
hippodrome showy tricks, we thought the weight-
lifting a big mistake, for if indulged in by the
youngsters, it will do them more harm than the
legitimate gymnastics will do good. Cansdell
shouldered up an 80lb. dumb boll in each hand 8
times. D’Harcourt put up one 701b. 33 times. Loose
701b. in each hand 4 times, and Stevenson 80fb. in
one hand 8 times
Hon. Ivo Bligh’a fiancee will shortly leave
Melbourne for England, where the marriage is to
take place.
A boy eleven years of age, who was wit-
ness in a robbery case at Canipbelltown, stated
that he had drunk a glass of brandy and a glass of
rum on the night of the theft—the first spirits he
had ever tasted. What a moral lesson If
that boy had only begun to drink spirits at
five years of age, say, or six—he would never
have brought dishonour on his aged parents—we
presume they are aged—by being concerned in a
robbery. He would not, because ho would have
known too much to have mixed his liquors.
Sladeu again; in the Queenslander. So :—
“ Wives of Carlyles and sisters loved of Words-
worths,
Who fight the good fight spite of toils and
strains;
Confident that your hero has whole herds worths
Of ordinary mortals aims and brains.”
Herds worths! This is the figure of speech of a
calf. Some time ago a man called arouud upon us
and told us he was the secretary of a company
which was forming with the object of sending a
lot of Buzacott’s poets to join the other bards
in the fields of asphodel. He asked us to subscribe.
The temptation was great. We pictured the joy
of Homer and Virgil, not to mention Dante and
Milton and the other rude poets of primitive days,
at meeting these polished products of our cultured
century. But we resisted the temptation. Wo
reflected what a loss it would be to us if we had no
more Jaraberoo lyrics to gloat over.
One of the refinements added by the MTl-
wraith Ministry to the Kanaka-labour laws is one
which provides that ten per cent, of the Islanders
introduced .shall bo women. Now, are the ten
women to exercise a controlling and refining in-
fluence on the remaining ninety men V Are the
ten women, who in “the hours of ease” of the
ninety men are “ uncertain, coy, and hard to
please,” to become “ ministering angels” when
" pain and anguish wring the brow” of their ninety
dark-skinned compatriots? Does, in the M‘I1-
wraithian idea, the presence of one woman con-
tent and soothe ten men ? How would Sir Thomas’
Ministry like it if they only had half a woman to
associate with ? And what makes the thing still
more unfair is that about 80 per cent, of the 10 per
cent, of the women are some other fellers’ wives,
who would doubtless considerably object to the
“ ministering angel” line of conduct. Besides the
noble white man sometimes casts eyes on the
Kanaka woman !
Things were bad ou the Darling Downs
when a Tittle band of sundowners tramped up to
the station of a Mr. Gore, and asked if he was in
want of men. “In want of men?” roared the
squatter; “why 1 can shingle all my woolsheds
with them.” Times are better now, for old man
Jordan declares ho can give as high as 15s. a week
for good steady first-class workers. Jordan’s a
hard road to travel still.
The oldest Presbyterian minister iu the
North-western district died last week at Mudgee.
The Rev. Alexander M’Ewen, who was an en-
ergetic though unostentatious worker in all
that concerned the public weal, was located on the
local goldfields thirty-two years ago. In connec-
tion with his death a very remarkable journey was
made. Mr. George M’Ewon received a telegram of
his father’s illness at Singleton, and at once took
a favourite horse with him in the train to Muswell-
brook. From that place he started at half-past
eleven on Saturday evening, and reached Mudgee
soon after five on Sunday evening—130 miles in
about seventeen hours on one horse.
There are two sets of rapids, one above
and one below Niagara Falls. No living man over
tried to swim the first, though two men have been
in them accidentally and come out alive. One was
a workman named Chap'in, who in ’39 fell off the
Goat Island bridge, and was “ brought up ” in the
stream on the little island which now is called
Chaplin's Island. The other man was a painter,
William M’Cullough, who also fell off a bridge to
the Sister Islands, and was eddied on to a rock,
near the edge of the falls. Thomas Conroy, a
tourists’ guide on the spat, put a rope round his
body, had and saved him, all Niagara
City looking on. It was a deed of dauntless hero-
ism. It was the whirlpool below the falls that
Captain Matthew Webb adventured—a mad mael-
strom of whirling waters, at which many a strong
man shudders as he looks. Only once was it passed
in safety, and this by J. R. Robinson, who, batten-
ing down the hatches of the Maid of the Mist, leav-
ing the engineer and stoker below, tied himself to
the wheel and guided the boat through with only
the loss of her funnel. The world stands appalled
at the tale of one naked man braving, unaided,
that “sea of troubles.” The deed may have been
one almost of insanity; but it stands unparalleled
as an instance of audacious ambition and sublime
courage. Captain Webb failed; hut history ,/ill
hand down for ever the story of his superhuman
attempt when that chaos of breakers, whose white
surf-horses resistlessly charge in countless squad-
rons day after day. from century to century, be-
came the not unfitting sepulchre of the greatest
swimmer of all time.
SETTLED.
he:
Ah, mayden faire and swete,
A flower—ower—ower;
Thy home soe dearo and note,
A power—ower—ower.
Oh, love me, mayden faire ?
Your lover—over —over,
Koleve this harte of care,
Whiohe you discover—over.
See in these eyes of myne,
This sorrowe—orrowe —orrowo,
And saye that I am thyne,
To-morrowe-orrowe—orrowe.
she:
I cannot saye thee soe,
My brother—rother—rother,
Because I’m promised toe
Another—other—other.
One of the most remarkable women in the
world is Dr. Mary Austin. She obtained her medical
diploma in Orleans, Joined the French army, with
her husband Colonel Austin, when the Franco-
Prussian war broke out, lost an eye and returned
to her private practice covered with glory and in
the enjoyment of a staff officer’s pension. This is
good, but it is nothing to the rest. Besides prac-
tising her profession during the 33 years of her
married life, she found time to bear her frenzied
husband 44 children. You can’t beat this record
much since the prolific time of the patriarchs,
anyhow.
Here’s a Lit of Mr. George Lacy’s poetry
“ Yes, only a woman—nothing grand;
A woman with plty’ng glance;
A woman, the tender touch of whose hand
Softly soothed into gentle trance.”
This is poor stuff; and, besides, it is not our expe-
rience. This is:
Yes, only a woman, nothing more,
To lighten life’s road of gloom;
Only a woman behind the door,
When the stars are out, with a broom.
Yes, only a woman your soul to bless,
And thrill with her touch divine;
To vow when she’s bought a three-guinea dress
It only cost “ four-and-nine.”
Not so pretty, is it ? But, iu the language of Edeu,
it's “dreadtul true.”
Many years ago,—long before even the
Town Hall clock stopped, or the Rum’s Jokes were
bald-headed, an ancient artisan made a brazen
bull, brought it before his King, and explained
that the idea was to put a live man inside the bull,
place the animal on top of a bonfire until he grew
rod hot, and then stand round and listen to the
begger inside squirming. This so tickled the King
that he had a forge fire lit up at once, put the bull
on top and then stowed the ingenious artisan him-
self in the beast’s bingie. Now history repeats it-
self. A stonemason, who toiled hard to put the
finishing touch on the Ballarat lock-up. was the
first one who was immured in that dungeon—he
having wandered away after work where the
gentle corn was waving.
Thus the Rev. Charles Strong, at Casterton
Vic.:—“ Good people, as they arc called and per-
haps think themselves to be, are often most un-
bridled as to their tongues. What hard things they
can often say of a neighbour ! What bitter re-
marks they can make! what unscrupulousness In
the use of bad names towards those who follow
not with them ! What violent words escape their
lips! What unkind, ungenerous, uncharitable
words! The religious press ? What secular news-
paper can compete with it in the virulence of its
columns ?” When the editor of the Distress read
this, he began to polish up the pitch-fork. And
when the writer-m-ordinary to the Protestant
Plugger “ had his attention directed ” to Charles’
blasphemy, he instantly proceeded to shovel in the
brimstone.
Several changes are taking place in Mel-
bourne Press circles. A wealthy company have
purchased the Daily Telegraph, with a view to
making it a first-class but much less holy paper.
Mr. Henry Short has been engaged at something
under a million a year, and as he knows the calibre
of all the Melbourne journals he will be able to put
together a good staff. Liberal offers have been
made to several Argus men. who, however, de-
cline to quit the “leading” journal even at ad-
vanced screws. It is likely that the Age will lose
one or two of its best writers. The great Liberal
organ is not at present in good odour with the
Radicals, who talk about establishing a paper in
the working-man interest. Such a Journal would
have “ the hearty co-operation of the trade societies
throughout the colony,” But that kind of thing
never made the fortune of a daily paper, which
must be supported not by organizations but by the
individual. Mr. Pugh is to take Mr. Short’s sub-
editorial post on the Argus The change of pro-
prietary at the D.T., and the knowledge that they
are willing to pay very liberally, has caused quite
a flutter among the daily pressmen of Melbourne.
Thus a poet iu a Northern paper:—
“ Life is a hurrying race,
Like the race of the desert wind;
Oh, if 1 could but find
Some quiet vacant place!”
Why does he not crawi inside his skull ?
Some time ago, Sir Arthur Palmer gave a
banquet. Among other toasts, there was one to
the good health of the late Governor of Queens-
land. Drinking the health of a dead man is worthy
an Irish wake, but has not so much justification,
for at a wake there is a reasonable supposition
that the corpse will be brought to life again by the
odor of the whisky. But nothing would bring a
man back to Queensland who was once comfort-
ably dead; that is, nothing would, unless there are
worse places in the next world than any we have
ever heard of. And, as we read the Protestant
Standard regularly, we flatter ourselves there
are not.
From a West Australian paper:—“Police
Constables Houlahanand Rowland arrived in town
yesterday morning from Beringarra bringing with
them a batch of no less than 3ti natives prisoners,
who have been sentenced to terms of imprison-
ment averaging two years for sheep stealing.
They will proceed to Fremantle by the
Rob Roy.” Yes, they *’ proceed; to Fremantle”
—to the c.ungeon at Rottnest, where every
other week some dirty, wretched, ignorant
blackfellow is hanged ; where the imprisoned
natives die like fluky sheep, of fever; and where
the pigs prey on the unburied corpses of the
victims of "the law.” The present condition of
Western Australia is a disgrace to humanity and
to the British flag.
The last of her race, poor; old “ Queen
Margaret” of Lake Macquarie, is living upon the
charity of a few of her neighbours. The allow-
ance made by the Aborigines” Protection Society
for her sustenance being only eighteen-pence a
week, she was unable to trade successfully with
the local storekeeper. Advance, Australia ! We
are, indeed, good Christians. The Bible—we moan
the ledger—is the secret of our greatness. We are
exterminating the original rabbits, whom wo have
robbed of their warren, containing, according to
Sir Edward Strickland's speech on behalf of the
Lake Macquarie confedei'acy, billions of tons of
black diamonds and a variety of othir things. Wo
suppose that the Lake Macquarie “syndicate”
won’t have much trouble in hauling from the
Treasury a few hundreds of thousands wherewith
to improve their private properties at the public
e xpense. But what about poor old Queou Mar-
garet, and her eighteen-ponoe a week ?
The Princess Thyra, a sister of the lovely
, Princess of Wales, is so plain that when the Prince
j Imperial went to Denmark to woo her he was
aghast, and returned precipitately to England.
Afterward the Princess married the Duke of
| Cumberland, who boasts, among other possessions,
the worst temper in Europe:—
“The bloody Duke of Cumberland beheld with
anxious eye
And ordered up his last reserve, his latest chance
to try.”
....“Love,” observed Ninon de i'Enclos, “never
dies of starvation, but often of indigestion.” ‘T
love men,” said Queen Christine of Sweden, “ not
because they are men, but bo ause they are not
women.' “Love matches,” observed Lady
Blessmgton, “ arc made by people who are content,
tor a month of honey, to condemn themselves to a
life of vinegar.”.... Green hair is coming into
fashion m Paris. Already several beauties of the
first rank have been observed in the boxes at the
theatres whose heads were in “youthful verdure
clad,” in the literal sense of the word. Unfortun-
ately, it is no easy matter to dye the hair green.
This colour can only be imparted to white hair. Hair
of any other colour must first be bleached white.
’ ‘ •• Housemaid: ‘It does ray heart good to see you
and the baby together. It’s a pretty picture. Sure
and he’s the image of you.” Fond Mother: “ But
they all say he looks like his father, Mary.” House-
maid: “ Bless your soul, mum, he is not good-look-
ing enough for that!”....In reply to her father,
she said that she did not wear rings on her lingers,
” because they hurt me when anybody squeezes my
hand. ‘ What business have you to have your hand
squeezed ?” “ Certainly, none; but still you know,
papa, one would like to keep it in squeezing order.”
.... “ Don’t you dance at all this evening, madam ?”
“ Not till midnight.” “Why so?” “Because to-
day is the anniversary of my husband’s death.”....
A Brisbane man recently hanged himself because
his wife bothered him tor money. If everybody
imitated his example the world would be peopled
with widows. When our wives ask us for money
and we don’t feel disposed to give it, we have laid
ourselves down a rule which we never break. We
don’t give it. Then they usually do the breaking...
At Coney Island races, Mrs. Langtry, who went
with Freddie Gebbardt toiseo his horse win the cup,
was the sensation of the day. In a natty little hat,
and perfectly fitting dress, she clapped her hands
when Eole galloped by. As soon as it was known
she was on the course, men and women left their
seats in the stand to gaze up at the box where she
and h~r shadow sat.
A LESSON IN PUNCTUATION.


0
&
J1
1
Rm
HQ
>
\W®
Ar
Q*
Jr
&
33JL&5
r
OPPOSITE POST Office.
SjlAT€OPr9S6eoT*Ge srrccT
PAPERHANGINGS!
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSERY PAPERS.
GEIIJNG CENTRES.
FIGURES, SCENES, &C.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwick,
381 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints. Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Loaf, & c.
Haymarket Auction Rooms
AND
FURNITURE BAZAAR,
CORN EXCHANGE BUILDINGS,
724 GEORGE STREET.
The cheapest place in Sydney to purchase every
description of Household Furniture.
HOUSES FURNISHED oh the Time-payment
System.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY instalments taken.
Open—Mondays and Wednesdays, 9 to 9
Saturdays . ■. . . 9 to 10
Tuesdays and Fridays • . 9 to G
JOHN P. LISTER, Proprietor.
w . — - ... w
Gun Maker & Cutler.
t3&~ TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 60S GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table *nd Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. AH work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborne ; also Angelo Bor-
doni, of Brescia, Italy.
J LAWLER, 608 George-street, Bedding Manu-
• facturer, Importer of Brass and Iron Bed-
steads, American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair,
Kapok, and Cotton Flock. Established I860.
SOHO BAZAAR,
352 GEORGE STREET
(Paling’s Old Premises).
THIS BAZAAR, which has just been OPENED
will be found to contain a superior assort
ment of
Eric a Brae, Articles of Yertu,
Terra Cotta, China-ware, Sec.,
Tricycles, Erencli and German
Model Bolls, Count HarraclTs
Bohemian Vases, Parisian and
Viennese Leather Goods,
Parian Marble Figures,
a nd all varieties of
FANCY GOODS AND TOYS.
INSPECTION INVITED.
SoIolo Bazaar
352 George Street.
Atlas Foundry & Engineer-
ing Company,
nr HAY STREET SYDNEY.
Engineers, Boilermakers and Shipbuilders,
Iron and Brassfounders, Coppersmiths and
Millwrights.
The above firm are prepared to undertake con-
tracts for the manufacture of Marine and Station-
ary Engines, Boilers, and Girder Work, Quartz-
crushing, Sawmill, Sheep-washing, Mining, Sugar-
mills, and all other descriptions of Machinery, with
latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for metal.
No. 17 ROYAL ARCADE.
MR. DAVID DUNK,
(Of Paddington)
Begs to inform’ his old customers and public gener-
ally that he has opened a branch of his FRUITER-
ERS’ ESTABLISHMENT at
No. 17 ROYAL ARCADE.
His great experience, viz., 30 years, is a gu\. an tee
of his ability to excel all otheio. Remember the
address-
17 ROYAL ARCADE, and
451 South Head Road, Paddington.
J. W. R. CLARKE,
Bookseller & Stationer
5 and 6 MARKET BUILDINGS,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite Market Street.
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
rgl H E MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWAYS PURE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations.
Butter.
This is either manufactured at their own depot
or obtained from the best butter-makers in the
Southern dairy districts.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
21 HARBOUR STREET.
WATSON AND CRANE,
SILVER, NICKEL, & GOLD PLATERS.
BRASS FOUNDERS AND MANUFACTURERS.
Old Electroplated Ware, Cruets, Spoons, and
Forks, Tea Services. &c., re-silver plated equal to
new, at Moderate Charges.
NICKEL PLATING on Brass, Iron, and Metal
Furniture and Fittings of all kinds in Best Stylo at
Lowest Prices.
JEWELLERY, Ac., WELL GILT,
STEAM, BRASS, & ELECTROPLATING WORKS,
336 PITT STREET.
HAWKES AND COMPANY,
TATTERSALL’S HORSE BAZAAR
and
SALE YARDS,
CORNER of CASTLEREAGH and HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sales Daily, or outside when required.
Horses kept at Livery; excellent accommodation
and fodder.
All kinds of Vehicles lind Horses on Hire, day
or night.
Weddings and Picnic Parties supplied with good
carriages.
TRAMS SET DOWN AT THE DOOR.
Conveyances fitted with Ham- era for Excursion
Parties.
Sale, Livery, and Let-out Department entirely
separate.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED by ACT OF PARLIAMENT, 1«73
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £121,500
Directors:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Calrd, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors;
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. I Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq.
Manager : Secretary ;
F. A. A. Wilson. Hector Alien.
Branches:
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redforn, Glralambone,
Gosford, Nyngan, and Bourke,
London Bankers;
The National Provincial Bank of England
London Office: 158 leaden hall-street
Director: Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent: G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wool
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
W.
KERR,
Watchmaker
■v.
iff
Jeweller,
and
Silversmith.
y_|~AS JUST OPENED HIS NEW PREMISES,
544 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the TOWN HALL.
With a magnificent stock of Diamond, Roman
and Vienna Jewellery,
GOLD AND SILVER WATCHES & CLOCKS,
Football, Cricketing, and Trophy Speciality.
Note the Address—
544 GEORGE STREET.-
TRULL-DOG ALE.—IT is not the clearness
JT> or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALB
that preserves this t rand first in public
estimation. Common bitter crude beers are
made very fine, but no other brand has the
same mellow vinous character, the fullness on
the palate, and the great l-eeping qualities of the
BULL-DOG ALB. Consumers are therefore cau-
tioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred
to as equal in quality to BULL-DOG. CATTBLL
& CO., Agents. Newcastle Agents; WOOD
BROTHERS & CO.
J.
SIMPSON
IRONFOUNDER, &c.
Camperdown Foundry,
Lambert-street, Camperdown, West Sydney,
Manufactures all kinds of ornamental Palisading,
Frieze, Fringe, and Brackets, Plain and Fluted
Columns, Window Mullions, Colonial Oven Grates,
and General Castings.
N.B.—Orders from the country punctually
attended to, and forwarded by road, rail, or water.
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
A CURE GUARANTEED.
Qf&iUA
Hinv
TR feATM
D
R. E. C. WEST’S NERVE & BRAIN TREAT-
MENT.
A guaranteed specific for hysteria, dizziness, con-
vulsions. fits, nervous neuralgia, headache, nervous
prostration caused by the use of alcohol or tobacco,
wakefulness, mental depression, softening of the
brain resulting in insanity and loading to misery,
decay, and death ; premature old ago, caused by
over-exertion of the brain or over-indulgence.
Each box contains one month’s treatment, 5s. a
box, or six boxes for 25s.; sent by mail prepaid on
receipt of price. We guarantee six boxes to cure
any case. With each order received for six boxes,
accompanied with 25s., the purchaser will receive
the manufacturer’s written guarantee to refund
the money if the treatment does not effect a cure.
Guarantees issued by all chemists and druggists iu
Australia.
THE COVENTRY MACHINISTS’ COMPANY
MAKERS BY SPECIAL WARRANT TO H.R.II. THE PRINCE OF WALES.
TRADE MARK REGISTERED
THE SPECIAL CLUB.
THE AUSTRALIAN CLUB
Intending: Purchasers of
Bicycles & Tricycles
Should Write to Us or Call on Us.
As we have always on hand a full
Stock of THE CLUB BICVGLES and
TRICYCLES, we never fall to give
purchasers the best satisfaction.
We have permission from the leading
BICYCLE AND TRICYCLE RIDERS
OF THE COLONY to refer inquirers
ns to the merits of our machines to
them, and wo shall take pleasure in
doing: this whenever requested, as their
pood recommendation has already sold
for us a number of machines. Expe-
rienced Machinists inspect and adjust
every machine,
SPECIAL AGENCY:
THE IMPERIAL CLUB.
THE CHBYLESMORB CLUB.
389 George Street, opposite
■p Royal Hotel.
CRAMPTON & BRUCE’S
CELEBRATED
OVERSTRUNG IRON-FRAMED PIANOS,
Warranted for 7 years—Prices, £25, £30, £35, £42, & £55.
For the first time, Ji Piano embracing all the merits of a High-class Instrument, at a Low
Price, is brought within the reach of all.
Style No. 2, at 12 guineas—a marvel of Cheapness.
WRITE FOR PIANO, ORGAN, AND MUSIC PRICE LISTS, TO
Champion & Bkuce, 281 George-st., Sydney,
OPPOSITE HUNTER-STREET.
PEAPES arid.
Have recently opened large shipments of their now celebrated brand of
Standard Ready-made Clothing.
pnac Goods are All Wool, and thecut, fit, and workmanship is not to be excelled anywhere.
rSTANDARD ” TWEED SUITS, THIRTY-TWO SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
. XTT% PEAPES and SHAW’S, GEORGE STREET.
STANDARD ” TWEED SUITS, THIRTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Ji a , n . _ TTA . „ PEAPES and SHAW’S, GEORGE STREET,
f STANDARD ” TWEED SUITS, TWO GUINEAS.
„ PEAPES and SHAW’S, GEORGE STREET.
"STANDARD" TWEED SUITS, FORTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
jtur „. _„ . PEAPES and SHAW’S, GEORGE STREET.
STANDARD ” TWEED SUITS, FIFTY SHILLINGS.
note-
PEAPES and SHAW’S, GEORGE STREET.
1ATTEIINS of the Tweeds in each price quoted forward on application, together with
.... instructions for self-measurement, post free.
; wSSS°AT8 FOR WINTER, in light, medium, and heavy textures, 25s, 30s, 35s.
OVERCOATS, CUT SPECIALLY , EXTRA LENGTHS, and exceptionally well finished, 12s,
r 4:5s 50s
KTCH tweed ULSTERS, LINED WOOL, 30s, 35s, 42s. 45s, 60s.
wENt.’S DRESSING GOWNS, in Scotch Knickerbocker Felt Wool, and Paisley, in "reat
variet Y-
aew RAILWAY RUGS in Wool, Plain and Fancy Seal, extra sizes, from 15s 6d upwards.
A MAGNIFICENT SHIPMENT OF BAGS.
GLADSTONE’S IN BUFF AND ENAMELLED HIDE
THE EXCELSIOR BRIEF BAG
THE BEACON8FIELD, and a variety of other shapes
Portmanteaus and Overland Trunks, in all sizes.
CHRISTY’S HATS, CHRISTY’S HATS, CHRISTY’S HATS,
ALL THE NEWEST AND LATEST LONDON SHAPES,
In Black Silk, Drao Snell, Hard Felts.
Travelling Hats and Caps, in great variety.
THE TURKISH FEZ.
*EAPES & SHAW, Oeojfge-street.
THE TURKISH FEZ.
PjEAFES & SHAW, George-street,


#
30
ALEXANDER’S
IS THE BEST
FOR HAND OR MACHINE SEWING:
Ask for it, and see that you get it.
3
&
iT
&
\5
(REGISTERED.)
/
%
9 SYDNEY ARCADE & 12 ROYAL ARCADE.
I «*»■!
LATEST FASHIONS.
*
PI301I 30s. EACH.
Special Novelties, &c. Country Orders punctually attended to.
OMENTAL GOLD
This Magnificent Metal—the latest discovery of science—
entirely superseded and surpassed by the Brilliant 1
tawdrV articles of inferior designs are manufactured of ORIENTAL GOL.
stooped to apply it to common uses. JNO m CLAgg AND M^ST TASTEF[JL DES i GNS ONLY, and is
public. The best imitations heretofore produced are
jearance and quality, that the discoverers have not
' is worked up into JEWELLERY OF
Perfectly Indistinguishable from the most costly Sterling Gold Jewellery.
ALTHOUGH SOLD AT PRICES WHICH REPRESENT ONLY A FRACTION OP THE COST OF STERLING GOLD JEWELLERY OF IDENTICAL WORKMANSHIP.
We want to do business with people throughout Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
RESIDENTS of SYDNEY and VISITORS from
the COUNTRY are respectfully invited to inspect
our Goods. We count it no trouble to show them,
and no injury if no purchase is made.
tab Ij W, m Apjmal
We are glad to have visitors, because we know
that our goods please everyone, knd that those who
do not purchase will speak of our Jewellery to
their acquaintance in a way that will do us service-
To Bare customers the trouble of compiling a list, we make up useful and attractive list* as follows
No. 8 is a gift which will astonish any re-
cipient. Each article Is thoroughly good. The
action of the watch is Identical with what is put
into sterling gold cases, of same design, and sold
for £8 and £10, and there is no difference Id the
appearance.
No. 9.
Lady’s Oriental Gold Brooch and Earrings £0 IS 0
Lady’s exquisite Necklet and Locket, Ori-
ental Gold 1150
Lady’s gem set Gold Ring (real stones) .. 010 0
£3 0 0
Specially Observe.
If the articles do not answer expecta-
tion on receipt, re-pack them at once and send
them back. If this Is done within two days
or, where mails are few, by the first port
after receipt, and the articles are not injured, we
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will return the
money for the articles not kept.
Every watch sold by us will be rated and accom-
panied by a written warranty for two years.
We have a very large stock of Earrings, Brooches,
ladies and gent’s Alberts, Rings set with real stones,
crystals, and Alaska diamonds, emeralds, rubies,
and Italian pearls ; Lockets, Necklets, Collarettes,
Fancy Charms, Breast-pins, Studs, Solitaire Neck
Studs (some very splendid Alaska brilliants). The
prices vary.
Send us from £1 to £10, with a list of what you
want, and we will make a choice for you to the
beet of our judgment and forward same. If not
approved, and immediately returned, we will
refund as above, or make any desired substitution.
The foregoing are but a few assortments speci-
fied to save customers the trouble of making a list.
It will be sufficient when ordering to give the
number of the lot, and enclose P.O.O. for the
amount Payable to The Oriental Gold Co.
474 George-street, Sydney,
OPPOSITE MARKETS.
The watch in the No. 3 parcel first-class
article, such as Is usually sold at from six to seven
guineas. We deal direct with the manufacturers,
and on a large scale, and thus we get special terms,
and are enabled to share the advantage with our
customers. The Jewellery, we need scarcely say,
can’t be told from sterling gold articles. The work-
manship is identical with the best. Thus, by buy-
ing this watch from us, purchasers, as a matter of
fact, secure the other articles as a free gift.
No. 4.
A genuine Waltham Watch, nickel case,
open face, crystal glass, as supplied to
the N.S. Wales Kailway Department,
with splendid Oriental Gold Albert .. £3 0
No. 5.
0
Same as No. 4, except that the Watch has
sterling silver hunting case, with chain
as before .. .. •• •• .. 3 10 0
Notk.—We buy these watches by the thousand"
otherwise we could not sell them at the price.
Sportsmen, Bicyclists, Pedestrians, and
Oarsmen—Observe 1
No. 6.
A Racing Chronograph nickel-cased watch,
double dials, splendid timekeepers,
with patent fly-back, marking quarter
seconds, with Oriental Gold Albert ..£4 0 0
No. 7.
Same as above, except that this case is
silver instead of nickel, with Oriental
Gold Chain 660
Ladies 1 Please Note.
1 No. 8.
Lady’s Oriental Gold Watch, handsomely
chased case, full jewelled, highly-
( finished works, with handsome treble
chain, two slides and two tassels, of
Oriental Gold, only 2 16 0
NO. 1.
Gentleman’s Watch, horizontal movement,
Oriental Gold case, open face with crys-
tal glass, with handsome Oriental Gold
Albert, for ”15200
No. 2.
Same as above, except tnat the watch has
hunting case, for 2 0 0
Please observe. We do not pretend that
these are fifty-guinea watches ; but we do affirm
that they are good, honest watches, excellent time-
keepers, articles which do us credit and give satis-
faction to our customers. In appearance they are
indistinguishable from expensive gold watches.
No. 3.
Gentleman’s Silver English Hunting Lever
Watch, capped and jewelled, with Ori-
ental Gold Chain £4 4 0
Oriental Gold Compass Charm .. .. 0 12 6
Tasteful Breast-pin, Oriental Gold .. ..076
Brilliant Alaska Diamond, Oriental Gold
King 0 7 6
Oriental Gold Shirt Studs, set of four ..086
£6 0 0
ONLY
m
This cut is the exact* size
and appearance of
THE REVOLVER for ONE POUND!
A beautifully-finished article, nickel-plated through-
out, vulcanite stock. 32 calibre ; 5 shot.
Sent to any part of Australia or New Zealand for £1.
Oriental Gold Company, 474 George-st, Sydney.
* Beware of Impost era who cut out this advertisement and stick it in their windows over « on™™™
r onmrnnn KlonV iron rfivolvor.
H. P- GREGORY.
H. P.
H. SHAW SMITH.
8. W. GREGORY.
... . . GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers 4 Machinery Merchants
** ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR
Fay & Co.’s Woodworking Machinery
Tanite Co.’s Emery Wheels and Machines
Blake’s Brass-lined Special Steam Pumps
Korting’s Injectors
Eclipse Windmills
Sturtevant’s Fains.
A LARGE stock of the above always in our stores,
SAW MILL PLANING MILL, AND MINING REQUISITES,
17 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
TRICYCLES.
JUST ARKIYED, a large shipment of the
celebrated
Excelsior Tricycles,
For Ladies or Gentlemen.
Send for lists and TERMS of Payment.
Repairs executed by experienced Coventry
bicycle makers.
BAYLISS, THOMAS & CO., 68 King Street.
Printed and Published toy “TI16 Bulletin” Newspaper Company (Limited), 34 Pitt Street, Sydney. New Soutu Wales.
