

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 1—No. 22.—New Series
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1883.
Price—6d.
THE CIRCULATION OF “THE BULLETIN"
IS NOW MORE THAN DOUBLE THAT OF
any other weekly newspaper in
NS.W.—THAT OF ONE VERY OLD ESTAB-
LISHED PAPER, WHICH EXCEEDS “ THE
BULLETIN'S" BY ABOUT ONE-FIFTH,
ALONE EXCEPTED. THE CIRCULATION
OF “ THE BULLETIN" IS THE SECOND
GREATEST AMONG THE WEEKLIES OF
AUSTRALASIA.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1883.
To Professional Politicians.
A man who intends to earn his living by
being a professional politician in Australia
should observe a few simple rules. In the
first place, he should join every secret society
hecan get access to. Secret societies arepre-
ferable to public organizations, because it
may be a long time before it becomes gene-
rally known tha'. a man has joined any one
in particular; and thus, before it leaks out,
he will have had time to disarm animosity
on the part of people who are adverse to this
or that society —and, besides, there are other
advantages. Secret societies are specially
adapted for the benefit of schemers. Almost
invariably they are founded upon some basis
of principle which commends itself to par-
ticular sets of simple-minded men. One
society will profess to inculcate brotherhood
between man and man all over the world
without distinction of nationality or creed,
for example; and, in effect, it merely enrols
one section of a community in a league to
stick to one another against all the rest —right
or wrong. Another society will profess to
fake true religion under its special care; and
will be so worked as to back up its members
finder all circumstances—right or wrong
"in trade matters, at the polling booth, and
in the witness or jury box. Yet another
adopts the interests of sobriety. Each has
the ardent support of a strong phalanx of
earnest men—zealots in respect of the par-
ticular object professed ; and as zealots are
generally men with lop-sided intelligence,
there is nothing easier than to bamboozle
members of secret societies. The invariable
tendency of the members of such organiza-
tions is to regard adherence to their shibbo-
ioths as the one thing needful—the superla-
tive virtue, which suffices to compensate
tor the absence of every other merit. In-
tending professional politicians cannot
too thoroughly or too early compre-
hend this fundamental truth — which
** clearly recognized and consistently
utilized by professional political schemers of
8 tending and experience—that it is ever so
®uch easier to be a “good Mason,” or a
good Orangeman,” ora “ Good Templar,”
than it is to be a good man; and, inversely,
that one may be a sharper in business, cor-
,u Pt in public life, and untrustworthy in
ever y other relation, without losing the
c °untenance of one’s secret-society brethren,
s ° long as one maintains a good appearance
of fervent devotion to the standard of this
01 that organization. The first object of
an yone who designs to live upon the com-
munity should therefore be to work his way
,0 " high degrees” in secret societies.
• • •
This is very much easier than you would
hink. The competition is trifling, not
moause of lack of competitors, but on
Account of their quality. The ordinary mem-
,er is easily discounted. He has joined
°wing to a feminine curiosity, or an infantile
'unity. n e i U9 ted to know the dread secrets
ftnd grips and passwords, or he palpitated to
a in scarves and badges and bullion.
® has no special object in view, once he is
the professional schemer knows
exactly what he wants. The earnest mem-
bers who compete with him for the “ high ”
offices are mostly zealots; and, as a zealot is
generally a fool, our knowing friend, who is
never a fool in small things, but merely a
fundamental fool as every rogue must be,
will have no difficulty in bossing those rivals.
They are honest, and that fact places them
at a tremendous cisadvantage. They only
want high place in order to secure ardent
and effectual advancement of the objects
of the society. Consequently, they can
often be got round by impressing upon
them a conviction that Mr. scheme a
is ever so much more ardent and zea-
lous than even themselves; and they
cheerfully sacrifice their own ambition to
secure the leadership and guidance of so
active and devoted a chief. It may cost
some dexterity, effort, and even a little
money, to get up. But, once up, nothing is
easier than to maintain one’s position. It is
accounted merit to be always reminding
members of the necessity of zeal for the
order, unquestioning discipline, and self-
denying devotion, And as discipline means
doing whatever you, as Most Worshipful
High Bunkum, want themembers to do, the
more pains you take to humbug the
members to blind allegiance to you, the
stronger grows their admiration for your
energy, devotion, and zeal. When you have
worked things to this pitch, you are all
right, and can do pretty much as you
like. But you have required all your
dexterity, all your effrontery, all your slip-
periness, and all your mendacity, to keep
matters smooth with the outside people all
the time. For instance, if you were a Good
Templar from conviction, you wouldn’t care
a snap of the fingers how much the publican
interest, with all its powerful backing among
the mercantile community, was incensed
against you. But, as you only mean to use
your secret societies for ulterior objects, you
can’t afford to disregard the enmity of any
section of the public which you have the
smallest chance of conciliating. It is part
of your business to minimise opposition,
wherever it is to be apprehended. Now,
this is what makes secret societies so
peculiarly convenient for you. In the
lodge you can be a terrific fellow, and
deliver the most withering philippics
against the people or classes obnoxious
to your order, and thereby gain vast con-
sideration and prestige among the brethren,
while scarcely an echo of your tremendous
denunciations reaches the outside —and you
are thus able to oily-gammon the very people
you have been denouncing.
• • •
For a man who needs to be all things to
all men, nothing could be more convenient.
While you are working your way up in the
lodges, you have to be pretty gingerly how
you shape outside; but once your position in-
side is secured, you can do as you please,
pretty nearly. A simple Rechabite would
get into trouble with his order were he
merely seen in a public-house. But a leader
of Temperance secret societies can afford to
attend the Licensed Victuallers’ picnic, so
long as he ostentatiously drinks water at the
table. And if a friendly publican should
send a case of whisky to your house, there
need be no trouble about that. You can
always give it away to a deserving institu-
tion, or pour it into the gutter. Nobody
can prove you didn’t do the latter: and look
what a consistent act that would be I When
the fame of your zeal had gone the round of
your various Orders, and a quiet whisper
that your bark was worse than your bite
had permeated the ranks of antagonistic
guilds, the next step—into the Legislative
Assembly—should be tolerably easy. By
your smooth manner, and complaisant habit
of agreeing with everybody for the moment,
you will have made hosts of friends, or at
least disarmed animosities. Your lodge will
receive the word of command that all mem-
bers should plump for you, and the word will
have gone round the ranks of those whom
you ostensibly oppose that you are not
really half so dangerous as Jones— a rival
candidate — because, although Jones is
pledged to no societies, and doesn’t make
a parade of his objection, say to strong
drinks and papistry, it is felt that he really
has stiffer convictions than you, and is more
likely to act up to them. So the opposite
party will split their votes between their
own candidate and you. They will give
you one vote in order to keep the earnest
reformer Jones out, because they have
reason to believe you are a humbug and
can be “ squared.” Thus you will be elected
at the head of the poll, by a thumping
majority, and will be enabled to return
thanks in a self-glorifying speech, in which
you will applaud the public spirit and in-
telligence of the many-headed, as displayed
by their choosing you for distinction. And
as the many-headed like to be told that
they are public-spirited and intelligent and
virtuous, and are not apt to analyse their
jam before swallowing it, they will be much
pleased, and you will establish the most
cordial relations with them, and enter public
life uuder the most favourable auspices.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Adulation.
The Ministry, or some members of it, have been
pretty nearly all over the colony, and wherever
Ministers have been there has also been a banquet
and a flow of adulatory jabber. The reception of
the hon. gentlemen might suffice to turn stronger
heads than any member of the Government is cre-
dited with possessing. They have been gorged
with food and flattery. Now, it would be absurd
to blame the Ministers for this. That they should
visit all parts of the colony has clearly been a per-
fectly proper interpretation of their duties. Of
course they are not supposed to be gallivanting
about all the time. But, when occasion serves,
nothing is more fitting than that they should ac-
quaint themselves with the condition and require-
ments of all the outlying parts of the colony they
have to minister to. And, again, It would be
senseless to blame them because during their
tours they have combined a good deal of prescient
electioneering with their official business. They
would have been simpletons if they had not done
so. And on the other hand, it would have been
almost a defect of hospitality and encourage-
ment on the part of the towns and districts
visited, had Ministers not been received with
some sort of demonstration. The only thing
that exception need be taken to, is the senseless
high falutin’ of the after-dinner orators. If Mr.
Stuart and his colleagues had gone through Are
and water for the colonists, and had established
for themselves a reputation for great achieve-
ments and the sternest fidelity to noble principles,
they could not have merited higher eulogy than has
beensplt ttered upon them with senseless lavishncss
by shallow-pated grovellers. Such unearned com-
pliment discounts real eulogy, and robs genuine
demonstrations of their true significance and
actual force. There may be everything to hope
from the present Administration, We speak in
the higher sense, not with reference to roads and
bridges and lockups. The Cabinet may be big
with most admirable achievements to come. But
they have as yet accomplished nothing of moment.
MR. HUGH GEORGE.


I The Rates of Subscription to The Bulletin
are —For one year, 24s.: half-vtar, 12s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—In advance.
The Advertising Rates are 5s, per inch;
special positions in t he paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows : —On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions,
15 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 25 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps of any. Australian
Colony may be sent, it more convenient.
The banqueters have been buckling the spurs of
knighthood upon them before they have won
them, or even had an opportunity of displaying
their merit. We have contended, with all the
energy of which we are capable, that the Stuart
Administration shall have a fair opportunity ol
showing what they are capable of. But we have
nothing but contempt for exhibitions of adulation
which have been merited by no accomplished acts,
and which consequently have been prompted more
by an impulse of servility to men in power, than
by a rational and honest admiration for exhibi-
tions of ability and fidelity to principle.
Lacy on Brutality.
Mb. George Lacy has favoured us with a letter
in which he implores us to give less prominence to
matters relating to prize-fighting, and to omit
altogether references to “such abominations as
dog-fights, ratting, and similar indications of
human bestiality.” Now, we believe Mr, Lacy’s
protest to be a genuine emanation of principles
which that gentleman strives to live up to, and we
give it accordingly respectful attention. Mr. Lacy
is quite right in characterising the practices he
refers to as instances of human bestiality, or at
least of brutality. But will blinking their occur-
rence remedy or remove them ? Tnero arc scores
of things happening every day that in defer-
ence to a universal sentiment no journal dare
allude to. And the consequence is that im-
morality in private life grows and increases,
and some day it will be discovered that society is
but one vast sore, skinned over by a thin veil of
decent pretences. If it were possible to publish
all that is known to be goimr on, the people
would revolt at their own image truly mirrored
in the Press, and probably set to work to cure
each other. Really the only operative safeguard
of society is the disgust which people feel at each
other’s vices, even when thoroughly tolerant of
vices of their own. A society of prize-fighters
would probably make penal enactments against
sneaks. A society of cowardly thieves would
make it a capital offence to punch heads.
Cold men hold lust in real abhorrence.
Lusty men have a hearty hatred for the
unfeeling uncharitableness of cold-blooded
purists. Parsons hate the oaths of sailors. Sailors
detest the whining propriety of parsons. In a
mixed society all combine to check the vices they
are not inclined to; so that while a society may be
generally corrupt, there will always be a strong
majority against every separate form of vice or
corruption. No man loves vice for its own sake.
Every man is apt to be an apologist for his own
particular vice. Society is only in danger when
there is a common tendency to compound for
vices one is inclined to by winking at the failings
of others—a mutual agreement to sin and let sin,
as it were. The true remedy for any public vice is
exposure; so that if the thing attain propor-
tions greater than other co-temporary faults,
it will create a reaction. We don’t think
this will be the case with regard to
prize fighting, cock-fighting, and allied exercises
justat present, because these are distinctly not the
prevailing vices of the age. It is not by animalism
of that kind that society is menaced ,iust now. It
is the sneak-vices which endanger us. Mock
patriotism, mock religion, mock integrity a
parading of line phrases, a reciting of fine princi-
ples in lieu of a practice of either. Who is the
greater pest to our own society, for instance, and
whose example is most apt to demoralize our
youths-LABRY Fogey, or So-and-So., C.M.G., or
Blank, M.P., or the Hon. Compensation
Grabber? We are not deeply concerned
about the risk of deteriorating, by records
of prize-fights, a community which every day
is practically taught that to be a notorious
cheat is no bar to public honours; to be a
detected plunderer, no disqualification for
representative trust; to be an habitual insolvent,
no bar to Church eldership; to be a si ave of passion,
no stop to being a minister of God; to be But
why continue ? We will just finish off by remai k-
ing that there isn’t a day of the year that we are
not ready to shake hands with Larby Foley,
pugilist and publican, but honest, peaceable fellow
withal; and there isn’t a day when we would fail
to feel disposed to go and wash our hand, if it had
been shaken by anyone of dozens of men whom
society pretends to hftld in esteem and respect,
and even in reverence, the names of whom will
occur to every reader. No, no, friend Lacy; let s
have as little make-believe as may be, and act as
we feel—that is to say, more disgusted with the
really dangerous vices of the age than with those
superficial faults which it is customary to make a
convenient scape-goat.
John “Bobs up Serenely.”
Mr. John Davies, C.M.G., has emerged from the
temporary obscuration due to the farthing valua-
tion placed upon the damage done to his reputation
by the Jury in the case of Davies versus Harris.
'Che distinguished gentleman has bobbed up se-
renely in an appropriate locality. Kiaraa has long
been celebrated in a ghostly sense,and there is much
fitness in the ghost of a departed political reputa-
tion choosing that historical spot as a place to
“ walk.” Mr. Davies was distinguished by being
entertained at a banquet, attended by some two
hundred persons and a nattering multitude of
excuses. The number of persons who sent an
intimation that they couldn’t attend was
only surpassed by the multitude who nei-
ther attended nor sent any excuse. The pub-
lished account from which we derive our infor-
mation gives, with considerable, but, we fear,
misplaced, empressement, a detailed list of public
men who were not present. This peculiar fashion
of laying stress upon the consideration in which a
suest is held, sufficiently indicates the source of
information. Only the Sydney Daidy Telegraph
is equal to such an exhibition of cruel partizan-
ship Only that ill-starred journal could have
heaped obloquy where it designed to pile distinc-
tion by mentioning eleven persons as conspicuous
by their absence, and only giving the names of
two who were present. Of these two, Mr. H. F.
Kidd formerly member for Campbelltown, was
one That word “formerly” considerably quali-
fies‘the significance of Mr. Kidd’s presence. Mr
Davies is also a “former” member, and a banquet
in which the most prominent personages are men
who “have been” has a good deal too much ot the
fleath>head element about it to be a feally in-
spiriting occasion. The other name is that of Mr.
H. F. Nobt.k, who occupied the chair. At the risk
of being told that not to know H. F. Noble is to
I argue ourselves unknown, we must confess that
up to this occasion the celebrity of that person,
and the distinguished services which have invested
him with importance in the eyes of the com-
munity, have escaped our observation. This is
the more to be regretted, because Mr. Noble was
in possession of information which enabled him to
correct a popular error. He was in a position to
pronounce that Mr. John Davies is entitled
to congratulation on the farthing verdict allotted
to him for the injury done to his valu-
able reputation by Mayor Harris’s slanders.
Mr. Noble was also able to announce that Mr.
Davies is now entitled to the respect and esteem
of every one in the colony. The electors who—
being less intelligent than Mr. Noble— ‘decided
that Mr. John Davies was not worthy of their
confidence, will, we trust, take this correction with
due humility. Mr. Noble must know best, of
course. And we shall have no hesitation in setting
a fitting example. We are conscious of having
failed in our duty, as pointed out by the intelligent
Noble. We have never congratulated Mr. Davies
on his verdict. We now offer our farthing’s-worth
of congratulation.
Hugh George.
!jgh George— the “boss” newspaper manager
the colonies, as we once heard the omniscient
J. Casey descr'be him—is the best-known press-
in in Australia. Not every newspaper manager
s a legitimate claim to be described and regarded
a journalist, but Mr. George has been related to
s literary as well as the commercial departments
the two big journals with which his name has
en associated on this side of the world. He is
e of those enthusiasts who, looking upon a
jrnicg newspaper office as one of the most
mplex machines of our modern civilization,
counts it the primary duty of his profession
acquire perfect knowledge of all its parts,
that he may promote and compel its har-
mious and effective working. We might call
,igh George a self-made man, if Nature had
it taken so much trouble in framing him.
iture dowered him with brains, and with a
nstltution which nearly halt a century of work
,s not broken down. This was a tart in the
crld that not to) many people get, for Nature
is her arbitrary decrees of election and repro-
iction. The start In the world was up far North
Scotland, where the hardy constitution was
ughened by long boisterous winters. Facility in
pe-setting was learned thoroughly in a small
lice, at John O’Groat’s House, and then young
eorge, with impetuous ambition, determined to
y his fortune in London. Work was readily
und ; but in those days every young printer
•earned of a place in the Times office. It is hard
i realise, now-adays, the fascination that invested
ic then princely establishmept—which was re-
mind as the embodiment of all that was power-
i], progressive, and munificent in journalism. It
roudly set up standards which were intended to
mt out mediocrity from each of its departments.
; was the endeavour of the Walters to employ
nne of the best brains of the kingdom upon the
iitorial comment, and some of the deftest fingers
f the kingdom to put that comment into typo,
fhen Mr. George applied at Printing House Square
ur work, he was tried upon some stiff MS. “ copy,”
nd managed to “set” it without a single blunder,
idmission was gained thus at the first attempt.
Ir. George spent fourteen years in the Times
ffice, and might have stopped there till to day if
le could have reconciled his ambition to the slow
lace of promotion in so immense an office. Hut
hose fourteen years were his real apprenticeship
o journalism. He was in the best shop in the
vorid to learn Ills profession—the shop that more
han any other created that profession, hirst, ho
jassed through every branch of the mechanical
lepartment; and then, when transferred to the
•ounting-house, he mastered the intricate business
>f advertising ; when ho left, ho had attained
ho position of corresponding clerk. All through
iis connection with the Times he made a study of
ournalism, and so qualified himself for the high
md honourable duties ho has fulfilled in thoofhces
if the Melbourne Argus and the Sydney Heraed.
As one instance of the use he made ot hisoppor-
bunities, it may be mentioned that he habitually
noted with the utmost care the editorial emenda-
tions which were made by that first ot London
editors, John Delane. Mr. George s first relation
to the Argus was that of London correspondent.
While fulfilling this duty,, ho had an interview
with the elder Maekmnon, who informed
him that he was anxious to send out
somebody who would take charge ot the
mechanical department of the Melbourne office.
Ultimately, Mr. George agreed to take the posi-
tion, and terminated his connection with the
Times— a connection, however, to which he has
always looked back with justifiable pride. That
was twenty-six years ago. He entered the Argus
office with a large capital ot journalistic know-
ledge obtained at first hand from the best existing
source. And it was quickly and treely tapped.
The mechanical department of the Argus office
was then in a chaotic condition. What Mr.
George accomplished then may be described by
Mr. Justice Higlnbotham, who, Writing to a
Sydney journalist, the other day, said: 1 think it
was in the year 1856 that Mr. George and I first
became acquainted. It was about that time that
Mr. George came out Irom the London -Times
office to take charge of the mechanical arrange-
ments of the Argus newspaper, ot which I vas
then the editor. Prior to his arrival, there was
considerable discontent and trouble in the print-
ing department of the paper, which involved much
anxiety and additional and longer labour in the
editor’s branch. I well remember the extraordinary
and instantaneous effect produced by Mr. George.
Thoroughly acquainted with his business, he at
once ascertained the causes of discontent. He
readily yielded to those demands of the printers
which be found to be just; and by mingled firmness
and moderation, guided by consummate discretion,
he at once restored discipline, order, and content-
ment, which were never afterwards disturbed
during the time I was connected with the paper.
In a few days after his arrival, some of us in the
editor’s department wore enabled through his aid
to go home from our work at one o clock or two
o’clock or three o’clock in the morning, instead ox
at four o’clock; or five o’clock; op bjx o clock, or
even as late as seven o’clock, the hours we had
kept for some short time previously. My first
feelings, therefore, towards Mr. George were those
of high respect, and a sense of official and personal
obligation. They became stronger as daily Inter-
course made us better acquainted, and I have
always had a lively pleasure in believing that our
friendship was not even interrupted for a moment,
when long afterwards it became my painful duty
to have Mr. George committed to the custody of
the Sergeaut-at-Arms for a contempt of the Legis-
lative Assembly, committed by him as the pub-
lisher of the Augus. I should not omit to state
that the Argus under Mr. George was the lirst
Victorian newspaper to acquire the appearance
and ari’angement of matter that distinguish a
tirst-class London newspaper.” In a commu-
nication to the writer of this notice, an
eminent Victorian litterateur thus refers to
Mr. George’s connection with the Argus, and
especially to one most interesting incident >-
“ Sir. George, between the years 1857 and 1878,
filled an Important and I’esponsible position in
connection with the Melbourne Argus —first as
the head of its printing-office, and then as general
manager of that journal. In each capacity, he de-
servedly acquired the confidence and esteem alike
of the proprietors of the paper and of its literary,
clerical, and mechanical staff, by the uprightness
of his character, and the urbanity, firmness, and
straightforwardness of his conduct; so that, when
he quitted the office to assume the position he now
holds in Sydney, occasion was taken of his depar-
ture to present him with a handsome piece of plate,
accompanied with gratifying expressions of respect
and esteem, and of regret at the severance of a con-
nection which had been so agreeable and so condu-
cive to the smooth and pleasant working of the
complex organization o. a large newspaper-office,
from the whole of the persons connected with it. As
his name appeared upon the imprint of the ARGUS,
it fell to his lot to be summoned to the bar of
the Legislative Assembly of Victoria, tor an alleged
breach of privilege as the publisher of an article
in which the Chief Secretary—Mr., now Sir James,
M‘( 'ulloch —was accused of having made a state-
ment which “fairly bristled with falsehood.’ That
was in the month of March, 18118. Curiously enough,
the writer of it was a Presbyterian clergyman, and
the gentleman reflected upon was a prominent
member of that body. But suspicion fell on Mr.
James Smith, at that time Parliamentary librar ian,
and formerly a member of the editorial staff of
the Argus. By way of punishing him for his
assumed offence, the office he held was soon
afterwards abolished, and the first intimation
he received wf its abolition was a paragraph
in the Ministerial paper. Meanwhile, Mr.
George having been questioned by the speaker,
declared that there was nothing in the article
which was intended to reflect upon the
personal honour of the Chief Secretary; that
it merely asserted his statement to be not con-
sistent with truth ; that the article was no more
than a fair criticism upon a public statement,
made l»y a public man, in a public place. After some
further parley, the Attorney-General, Mr. Higin-
bothara, who bad formerly edited the Argus,
moved that the words were libellous, and that Mr.
George be committed to the custody of the Sor-
geant-at-Arms. The motion was carried by 33 to
14; and Mr. George remained under duresse, in the
Parliament buildings, during the remainder of the
session, which terminated on the 10th of the fol-
lowing month. But the visits of condolence and
sympathy which he received proved that he was
regarded rather as a hero than as a martyr; and
the Government suffered in the estimation ot all
but its impassioned partlzans, by its \iudictive
proceedings towards a hostile journal. Among
those who visited Mr. George during his imprison-
ment was the Attorney-General himself, now Mr.
Justice Higinbotham, who was anxious to assure
that gentleman of his personal sympathy and
esteem. On his liberation from custody, Mr.
George was congratulated on all sides, and the
proprietors of the Argus presented him with a
handsome silver claret-jug, suitably inscribed, as
a durable mumntr of this honorable epi-
sode in his career, in which he had cour-
ageously vindicated the freedom of the press.
Still dwelling upon Mr. George's Argus career, it
may be mentioned that he showed himself a demo-
crat of the right sort -that is to say, he always up-
held the dignity, rights, and privileges ot labour,
especially, of course, the labour employed in the
production of a morning newspaper. Compositors
have always found him a staunch friend—a practi-
cal sympathiser, who knows from personal experi-
ence how arduous is their work, and how untimely
are their hours. When he joined the Argus, he
established a sick fund of the same pattern as the
one in the Times office. The fund was directed by
him until he left Melbourne for Sydney, and it
still exists. After he became manager of the
Argus office, having sole control, he, in the name
of the Hrm, sanctioned the trade limitation ot the
number of apprentices; and when a deputation
from the printers of Melbourne waited upon him
to solicit his advice and support in the re-prganiza-
tion of the almost defunct Typographical Societ ,
he readily consented, on the condition that he
should have a voice in the drafting of their rules.
This condition having been readily acquiesced in,
Mr. George attended several meetings of the
printers, and there was drawn up a code of rules
which recognised alike the rights of the em-
ployers and the employed. At that time all
the proprietors of the Argus were resident in
England, and some busybody wrote to one of
them—the one who had a settled hatred of every-
thing bearing the remotest relation or resemblance
to trades-unionism— informing him that the mana-
ger of the Argus had been assisting in the turina-
tion of a Printers’ Society. As if that were an
outrage upon the journal and its proprietary! Yet
Mr. George was taken to task by this particular
proprietor—the gentleman who told England, the
other day, through the Tory Standard, that,
unless annexations in the Pacific were sanctioned
as fast as they were attempted or demanded, the
colonies would separate from the Empire. Mr.
George resented this interference with ins personal
liberty, and a not over-pleasant correspondence
ensued, which resulted in his resignation of the
management of the Argus establishment. But
he has left his impress in the office to which he
gave many of the best years of his life. He de-
voted much attention to the appearance of the
Argus, the “ make-up,” the type, the rules, the
general arrangement of which he so altered as to
make it closely resemble one of the leading Lon-
don morning papers. Under his manipulation, the
Argus became one of the best-looking, best-
printed papers Issued in any country —a reputa-
Ition which it still deservedly retains. Mention
should bo made of Mr. George’s connection with
the Australasian. At one time three weeklies
were issued from the Argus office—the Weekly
Argus, the Examiner, and the Yeoman. None
ot these publications proving a great success, it
was decided to merge them all into one grand all-
round weekly, and hence the Australasian, io
Mr. George fell the task of devising the lines upon
which the paper was to be modelled. The produc-
tion of the first number was a matter ot so much
anxiety to him that for thirty-six hours he never
quitted the office. Broad foundations were laid
lor what lias developed into a splendid property.
Mr George has always held that the true journalist
in a young country is a man who is great m pre-
vision as well as apt in supervision. One peculiar
feature in the history of the Australasian is its
remarkably numerous succession of editors, the
frequent changes did not contribute to the man-
ager’s peace of mind. But at last Mr. Guilett was
installed, and under his control the paper has had
a career of uninterrupted prosperity. It is need-
less to say much about Mr. George s five years
management ot the office from which the Sydney
Morning Herald, the Sydney Mail, and the
Echo arc Issued. As to the Herald, who does
not know how wonderfully it has improved in
appearance? One of his first achievements was the
thorough reorganisation of the mechanical depart-
ments of the office, with the result of greater
economy and less friction in working them. No
newspaper office in the colonies has so high a repu-
tation amongst printers as the Herald office. In no
M reat newspaper office in the world is there less dis-
content. The Fairfaxes—to their honour be this said
—desire that the comfort of the men should be
studied, as well as their rights heartily conceded;
and this desire of the proprietors is precisely what
Mr George is delighted to embody in the manage-
ment. He is hotly impatient with the incompetent,
but always eager to make the wheels of work ruq
smoothly for the competent. “The men havem i
rights,” is a phrase constantly upon his Una ( " eIr
sequently, one would have to travel far 'hot° a '
finding a more contented and skilled “comnQ^- 0re
ship” than that of the S.M. Hem a no.
change for the better has also been made iiww®
appearance of the Mail during the same rwroflf
It was on Mr. George's rocommenrtation tluu w 1
VV. H. Traill, of this journal, was brought LMr-
from Queensland to edit the Mail.
relations with the literary staffs of the Anors e ?
Herald offices have been of the happiest char 1 11(1
ter. His extensive professional knowledge v
broad views, his keen sense of honour his mo ?
appreciation of good literary work, his pride
power of a gr iat newspaper, his energy, enteriltS. 6
and progressiyeness, his kindly sympathy wm,’
young journalists, and his personal geniality h.
won him a host of real friends. The breaking e
of his Melbourne associations must have been
severe wrench, but he appears to have anchm-Ji
firmly and happily In Sydney, and is certainly
of our best known and most respected citizens ne
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor mon-de
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“Kiama”: Right “.HD.” (Araluen):
Thanks “Her Lover Harry”: Why don't ybu
send your name? “Fizz”: Will go through It
carefully —“Traveller” (Q.): Glad to hear from
you at any time “ Eva”: Can’t you let us have
something not in the form of a letter Sender
of extract from Celestiai. Empire": Next week.
“ W.J.M.”: It is not brilliant.." Mountaineer”:
Your verses show neither grammar, rhyme, nor
sense, and are nearly the worst we have seen...
“Adolphe”: You can give the lady either arm;
but whichever you give, don’t offer more thanona
at a time, unless she is a near relative, or—some-
thing of that sort. If she’s a sensible girl, she will
probably be near enough, whether a relative or
not, for all practical purposes...." W. Slack" ;
It is not worth reviving “ M.”: Much
obliged “Elolse”: Obliged to condense a bit
“W.A.": Will road your letter at our earlier
leisure “Season Ticket”: No, the iron mono-
gram on the railway carriages is not III8—though
it does bear stn ng resemblance to that usual
adornment of Anglican altar cloths: it simply
refers to Hudson Brothers, who, by the grace of
the railway authorities, are permitted to advertise
themselves in the most uruestbetic way.
"P.M.C.”: Very good, indeed...." C.T.W.M.”:
Will read and consider—“K.K.”: Many thanks
“Martingale”: You might as well ask ” Where are
the sinners burled ?” for the tombstones only sing
of good men “Weetah”: We’re afraid your
stories, though quaint in idea, would need loo
much revision... "Auser”; An excellent theme.
“Carcagada” (Melbourne): Thunks. Writs
again " B.D.”: Thanks “B.":, Your “Vale"
suffers terribly by comparison with “When Love
is Dead.”...." J.B.X.” (Melbourne): It’s a very
long while ago, you know. Perhaps Ills Honor
has now completely forgotten that evenuul night,
in which an infuriated husband, a shotgun, audit
leap from a bedroom window formed the chiei
incidents "E.J.L.’’: The speech looks as ii
the French correspondent from Vfoolioomooloo
had dropped In to read the “proofs.”
“Thos. Adam Thanks. Able, but too long and
discursive. ..“ W.E.L.”: Thanks; always glad of
such hints, although can’t use ah... " Kiangi ;
Good yarn. Give us “an ‘Oliver Twist. •
“B.U.”: Vou give no address. As a guarantee ui
good faith, and of the originality of your verses.
you should send your full name... “J.o.U. j
sinking of the Austral was no doubt caused h> a
typhoon. The typhoon arose from the fact torn
the man who writes sub-leaders for the U. I. pa-sw
in the Manly boat and wagged one of msearsL_-
“ A Hater of Ingratitude”: Have you ever few
this ?—“ ■ here is as much difference between wba
a man does during his life and what he does a
his death, as between death and life. ''bat,
testament ? It is the expression ot the win ™ »
man who has no longer any will respecting I
perty which is no longer his property. UB in-
action of a man no longer accountable for n
tions to mankind; it is an absurdity, and,»
surdity ought not to have the force of law- ‘
radical Mirabeau gave expression to tbeiorev j,
sentiment in the French National Assom . ■
hundred years ago.
We do not undertake to return rejec
communications. Writers should keep cof
“1 wandered down the mountain side.”
ASSEZ.
Why lay it on so awful thick—
That “jam ”-contlnu-ally i
We're getting just a httte sick
Of “eloquence ” and Dailey.
The old, old chord, why do you e'er
Continue all to strike it t
Why, don’t you know it isn t lau,
< And Dallen doesn’t like it.
“ My friend D.’s wit and eloquence
He don't take this as as P ral8 ?f
Of course not; he has too much sense
And wishes you to bla/.es.
And when you cry, “ That grand speech "
How can / address you J
Ho reaches out his glass for more.
So that he won t distress J on.
He is an orator and wit.
But why it at him holler .
How many of you, now, are tit
To write him down a schola
More “ marmalade,” and jnthj 3 lan
Vou take your dn ,i
He’ll kill some with the cony
Anoint the rest with gra\ J •
This be a warning to the rest-
Our reason—well, is fta>i
We kinder got an interest, t|
That’s fatherly, in Dailey.
CATARRH OF
Sydney, GeqQral Agents.


f tbe anesthetics taken for “ pleasure”
* I j 8 the moat insidious and exquisite, and the
' * (T of taking It is hardest to break. Many
bav o themselves given way to it. Nitrous
01 -laughing gas does not affect all alike, but
0X1 , ome persons its results are most enchanting.
Davy nearly acquired a liking forit,
‘ ir . v, v the beatific sensations he felt when
cal ! S ?itr gome experiments with it, and he had hard
® a t to subdue his longings. Tobacco has greatly
W 2 T need some, not chewed or smoked, but eaten.
i° vow York there is a magnificent Huschisch
In ‘ N ®' w here temporary tastes of He-wen can be
flo uS rl p u fc it is very difficult to gain admission,
h 0 ?the charges arc exorbitant. But ether-taker;
an oHence the curious circumstance of getting
drunk and recovering, all in half an hour.
Vmintity poured into a glass of water causes
* vacation in two minutes, lasting about a
’“rte r of an hour, insensibility follows for about
Isiine period, and then the ether drunkard is
? iber But persistence in the indulgence ends in
insaakf'
rt is now announced
Naively that the mar-
of Lord Berehavcn,
mHfied a while ago, will
"T take place. As his
fnrdsIdP was in Sydney
Sthe other das before
2“ went home-who is it i
It i3 true that the rift
wiriiin the lute of R.C.
society, in N.S.W. is daily
Widening, and that Dailey
heads one faction, and
leanings the other i If it
ie not so, it looks very
Ike it despite Freeman’s
maiestic declarations that
{he utmost union prevails.
In the Northern dis-
trict of Victoria, live a man
•md 'his wife and several
srrown-up children. One
niabt a slight disagree-
ment took place between
husband and wife, which
eventuated in the lady
going to bed “ in the
silks.” That was twelve
years ago. She is still in
lied,'and cannot get up, on
account of the sulks.
When the crack of
doomsday comes, we hope
to have Mrs. Langtry’s
character finally adjusted.
Not before ; it’s no use
thinking of it. “Since Mrs.
Langtry has gone from
America, the theatrical air
seems purer to breathe.
Until Mrs. Langtry came
to our shores, no actress in
America ever enacted the
wanton in public. Does
anyone doubt that if any
American ballet girl played
at Margate the indelicate
pranks Mrs. Langtry lately
played at Long Branch, she
would have been publicly
hooted by an English mob ?
As to the indlvkipal who
Is said to have kid her Into
social muck, wejlave only
to add that if men of shal-
low brains, and deep
purses, choose to play the
role of Albert Edward,
Prince of Wales, they
should imitate the tact of
ihe royal original, and pro-
fit by the lesson of secre-
tiveness he taught the
young bloods of England,
when a witness in the Lady
Mordaunt case. This, how-
ever, ought to be said, that
Mew York never had, until
lately, avowed male solici-
tors of women w alking its
streets.” That is from the
New York Dramatic
News. Now : “ We are
proud to find a woman of
moral courage, sufficient
to set the whole vile crew
»t defiance, and assert her
right to be the best Judge
ol her own actions. Such
women are rare; but they
wist, and Mrs. Langtry is
one. The nature of her
friendship for Mr. Geb-
nardt, is none of our busi-
ness or theirs. Yet, theie
are thousands of people
who have set their tongues
wagging oo this topic, and
then finding their imper-
tinence ignored, have pro-
nounced Mrs. Langtry as
altogether shameless and
abandoned. Why ? Be-
cause she does not see fit
to let the tenor of her life
be disturbed by the clack-
°f a set of insolents,
who are and who can be
nothing to her. These
people resent as a positive
injury, the very existence
I? a ' vom an who shows
th!; ca r es no more for
nem than they are worth
Is nothing. What-
vate n* rs ’ Langtry’s Pri-
aie hfe may be, is not
concern, and her
nearing under the vitu-
perations of the mean
hwho have assailed
shows her to have
ana 1 womanhood- a y e,
fim., aiai A 10 °d—in her little
t J*\than they have in
thr'iv 0 0 aggregation of
Th.» cowardly carcases.”
Afti 18 from tho Judge.
ner«A ordinary
&9 n will be able to de-
m?,?JiU^ t L. h °w moral or im-
w the lovely Lily is
nnerrti the air >' ease and
Coer accuracy of
iilan?, 1 *. Jes cribuig the
or ,,' acture of the world,
fixing 6 ()t their Honors
temjS ’P a culprit for con-
is court. One thing
bewRn^ m: The most decent
tak?fP, ap ®ra in America
the Lily’s part.
Th *4 •
iQ U’nn inf ® rnal machine’’ which was found
s Pecinii. l ? I } e J 8 Lox, and which was presumed to be
have hi.. lnte ndod for James Carey, turns out to
'I’Domwfn srna, l galvanic battery, purchased by
Paralvaii for :ffis The fact of his right hand being
By ? accounts for such an article of luggage.
‘Unorant * e L would seem that O’Donnell was
dement- Larey’s identity until almost the last
to (lisuna,. 80 , that the story of his having been sent
'hoonshine ° f the informer is > in all probability,
assault case recently tried at
tailedTth * t,ie Pbsoner being committed and
that she t, P rosee utrix, a domestic servant, said
Waa in thoK ort wine before going to bed, and
* r °used h °t saying her prayers. When first
first thnnT.k* . midnight marauder, she said “I
court hio ■ was a cat 1 Q the bed." The police-
oailey’s lasted about lour columns of
*r a P er I and the magistrates, lawyers, and
Glided in w ? r ? rowing all the time. We have
v ery rem 0 a ,. tr lY ial way to this case, because it is a
create one, and has created, and will
ttlct ei f 186 ex dtement in the Gundagai dig-
f ailleurs. This en passant.
David Buchanan, writing to the Rum the
other day, says there are " mony men in the pre-
sent Parliament prepared to stond like hors of
iron" against any attempt to amen • the libel
laws. Likejdocks of wood was evidently what he
meant to say, but David never was happy i > his
similes.
Why Peter M‘Mullen and John Sullivan
should have fallen out on the 4th of July is not
stated Had it been the 12th, one could under-
stand it. Rut, whatever the cause, there is no
doubt that they disagreed, and that Peter punc-
tuated his disagreement with John's opinions by
firing a pistol in that young man’s face. For this
he is now in gaol at M'Keesport awaiting the
opinion entertained on the subject by twelve of
his fellow-citizens. The ball struck Sullivan fair
on the cheek-bone, and became as fiat as a Christv
Minstrel joke. Then Sullivan turned to, and ink
few minutes reduced Peter to a mass of limp pulp.
We cannot say what calling the young man, Sulli-
van, follows, but his line is certainly politics. To
the man who can flatten a pistol bullet by mere
strength of cheek all years spent outside the walls
of Parliament are so much lost time.
Lord Charles fleresford has declined to be
made a C.B. for his heroic conduct in Egynt. Per-
haps he thinks it sounds too much like C.M.G.
“ The cottage homes of England,
How beautiful they stand.”
For instance, a cottage home at Ault
Hucknall, which sheltered a family of six, living
under conditions which an African savage would
revolt against. The breathing space tor each
inmate only amounted to 100 cubic feet, the floors
were so broken up that they could not be kept
clean, not a single window allowed fresh air to
penetrate, all kinds of filth were heaped about,
and the atmosphere was absolute!y sickening. In
addition, the miserable occupants were utterly
destitute of beds and bedding, so that one of the
children in a high fever had to get what repose it
could on a bare bench. This poor little creature
seems to have felt the want of fresh air badly, as
It was found on one occasion with its mouth to a
small crevice in the outer wall, sucking in the
external atmosphere in a truly piteous way. The
landlord was in the Continent, travelling for the
Ijealtb of a delicate daughter.
A QUO I RON ?
“Much evil has been wrought at pienies
and our Sydney harbour excursions. 1 will say
nothing about the general excursions; hut, as a
minister having to do with Sunday schools. I know,
in spite of efforts to the contrary, more harm lias
been done in a single day at these excursions than
could be undone in eternity.”— Rev. G. Olden.
It seems you really are a bold un.
To thus the naked truth speak, Olden!
Yet mention but one spot, and swear
That you’ve seen giddy conduct there;
Name but a steamer that has carried
Your picnic crowd to where they tarried;
E’en murmur gently what you saw,
And (hen tho air’d be thick with Law.
There’d rise up spectres who would swear
That naught but purity reigned there;
And scores would come with “front" sublime,
And vow they sang hymns all the time.
And then, to cut quire short the tale,
You’d. Olden, find yourself in gaol.
No - let it slide; your talk’s in vain.
When hymns and vice are in the grain.
Garrasny says that an appcal to statistics
would show that the people aie not deserting—or
as she puts it, “not rapidly deserting’’—the old
Christian standards. As if census statistics could
furnish a bona fide test of the religious beliefs and
sentiments of a community. The census-collector
isn’t looked upon as father-confessor-in-ordinary
to the public. When a man is asked his religion by
that functionary, he answers “ I am of the Angli-
can Church ’’—meaning, in thousands and hundreds
of thousands of cases, merely “ I am an Anglican
Protestant, because my father and mother, who
belonged to the Church of England, had me
baptised in that communion. I don’t go to church,
it’s true, but my wife goes, and she takes the
children with her.” Why, even in gaol, every
prisoner has a religion. Every convict professes
some creed or other. The mere tact that a man
says “ I belong to such and such a Church,” means
ab olutely no lung, in fifty cases outof a hundred;
and even church attendance statistics will fail to
furnish a reliable test, while curiosity and busi-
ness, or other mercenary considerations, continue
to attract to church at least as many people as
do?s honest conviption.
The population of China is now 350,000,000.
We chronicle this as a cheerful little bit of in-
telligence for the French. And talking of the
French, reminds us that the Empress Eugenio is
staying at the Villa Westminster, at Carlsbad,
under the title of the Countess of Pierrefonda.
We give this intelligence for the benefit of
“fashionables” shortly going to Europe, who
might want to see her Majesty, and, uot knowing
she was travelling incog., miss her.
We don’t seem to hear anything of the
Wolverene now; but there is a rumour she intends
taking another warlike cruise shortly, when the
boss is going to assert himself, and either
get as far as Wollongong, or perish in the attempt,
it m said, bythe way, of one (Victorian) naval officer
that he is a great theorist, and used to manoeuvre
ms ship by means of a printed manual. Well, one
day he was hard at it, long away from any possible
anchorage, and the crew were having sail-drill.
‘Haul alt your main brace,” said he. This was
done, then he cried, “Let go the anchor,” to the
consternation of the crew. He had turned over
two pages at once.
A life of Georges Sand
(Madame Dudcvant, &c.)
has been written by Bertha
Thomas. It is poor stuff.
Miss Thomas says after
chronicling her liaison
with Jules Sandeau,
“Others fell in love with
her, and found her unre
sponsive.” The question—
to those who have read
Georges Sand’s earlier
words arises, How many
others.
It is said a posthu-
mous work of Marcus
Clarke’s, “The Golden Is-
land,” a tale of New Gui-
nea, prepared for the press
by his widow, will be pub-
lished. By the bye, Mar-
cus wrote a short romance
which that title would ex-
actly fit, seven or eight
years ago, for the Christ-
mas number of t h o
Queenslander, in which
jt duly appeared. We pre-
sume this is not the same.
An exchange says
that the Earl of Rosebery
is understood to be on the
look-out for Australian in-
vestment. Won’t he just
he mobbed by our Affable
Hawks on arrival. Talk of
a squatter on the look-out
for sheep to buy, being
mobbed by commission-
agents at Young or Dubbo,
why, It won’t boa patch ou
what’ll eventuate, when
Rosebery lands. Only the
Affable Hawks should re-
member that though Rose-
bery’s family name’s Prim-
rose, his Christaln monni-
ker Isn’t Moses. He’s cut
his wisdom teeth, and isn’t
likely to barter valuables
lor green spectacles.
Here is another Royal
scandal. The Duke of
Edinburgh, who is irr-
ujenseJy rich, has just had
i3000 granted to him by the
House of Commons for his
connection with the mis-
sion to Moscow at the coro-
nation of the Czar. The
British Ambassador at St.
Petersburg, received an
allowance of £8000 to cover
all the official expenses of
representing England.
Prince Alfred did not go
officially, and there was no
need for him to go at all ;
but if he wanted to, why
did not the Duke of Edin-
burgh attend the corona-
tion of his brother-in-law
in his private capacity, as
would have been natural ?
The English people are
called upon to pay £1000
lor gratuities to servants,
which any gentleman in
the position of the Duke
of Edinburgh would have
paid out of his own poc-
ket. The worse feature is,
that there is great doubt
whether he ever spent the
amount at ail, or whether
he is not swelling his very
liberal salary by what is
euphemistically called
“ unearned increment.”
According to the
World, Canon Barry can-
not be expected for some
time to come, as he will
not be consecrated till the
end of December, in West-
minster Abbey. It states
that “ a number of persons,
who speak from ex-
perience as to the peculiar
qualifications desirable for
a colonial prelate, are dis-
posed to doubt whether a
wise choice has been made,
for Canon Barry has never
held a parish’’—and his
work will be quite different
from what he has been
used to. “ As a weighty
preacher, an accomplished
scholar and a sound and
learned theologian, Dr.
Barry will be rather thrown
away at Sydney, and he is,
perhaps, a little too pom-
pous and masterful a man
to be appreciated in a
colony." Thrown away !
Ah* thanks. Perhaps some
cognate consideration has
had a little to do with the
appointment of Archpriest
Sheeby to succeed Dr.
Vaughan
“ Lays of ancient roam”—Stray stale eggs.
O’Sullivan’s motion rc the site of Sydney
Hospital, at the “Tailors-of-Tooley-street ” meet-
ing, should have begun “ That the wee citizens of
the city of Sydney, etc..” instead of “That we the
citizens, etc.”
Victorian Public Service Bill contains a
delicate clause. Clause 78 provides that “no
person who is proved to the satisfaction of the
board to be habitually using intoxicating beve-
rages to excess shall be appointed to or retained
in the public service.” Another time-hononred
institution, then, will shortly disappear, and the
talented Civil servant will be but a ghost of the
past. The “Shades of the Block” will have to
turn their attention to stone-breaking.
Oh, alas! for Civil Service,
That this cruel clause should pass,
To deprive the Civil Servant
Of his brain-inspiring glass;
For we really can’t help thinking
(As you see by our remarks)
That, to do away with drinking ,
We must do away with clerks.
THE CINDERELLA OF THE RECESS.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
If Levien be correct, that a certain
KjC.M.G., was the informer in the ease of perjury
preferred against the unfortunate wife of Osman
flay. the bigamist, it certainly will be difficult to
recognise much difference in meanness between
Xuighta nd Day.
Mr. Joseph Arch has accepted the presi-
dency of the Birmingham Radical Union, and
will attend the mass meeting which the union
arranged to hold in October.
As there is no duke or marquis whose
family name is Melville, the newspaper report that
a “ Lord W. Melville is on a visit to Australia tor
the benefit of his health ” is patently Inaccurate.
It is rather odd that both the petitioner
and co-respondent in the Bolam divorce suit should
be backsliders from the Wesleyan Church. I he
former was to have adorned the pulpit, whilst the
latter, we suppose, was to hump around the plate
tind grunt the amens and hallelujahs in the wrong
places.
On 2nd October, Mr. J. B. Elworthy, pro-
prietor of the Gundagai Times, completed a
quarter of a century’s journalism, all spent in or
about that district. On the 2nd October, 1858, he
published the first Adelono Mining Journal,
then went to Kiandra, to start a paper with the
rush there, but was forestalled by Mr. Thomas
Garrett (now M.P.). with the Alpine Pioneer the
plant for which, was humped up to that ultima
thuleof on the bucks of Chinamen. The
Wynyard Times, and the Tumut and Adelong
Times followed, and then Gundagai became the
scene of the journalist's labours.
The Melbourne Cabinet have decided that
llolam (Inspector-General of Schools) and they
must part. He was petitioner in the late divorce
ease, but under the tire of cross-examination a
hia tnn hamper was blown away and his nun
uncomfortably riddled. He nailed his colours to
the mast, but the mast itself went overboard; and
so when he emerged from the smoke, there was no
tiying ensign to bo observed. Ho is now con-
sidered unfit for further service. Some think that
with a little caulking here and there, and a coat
or two of fresh paint, ho might be disrated from a
line-of-battle ship and classed as a despatch boat;
i m t the general opinion is that he must give way
for younger craft built on cleaner lines.
It is rumoured about that Graham Berry
has it in his head to deliver an address shortly to
tlu* working men of • • well, the world. But he
will do it in Melbourne or Geelong. What memo-
ries this little harmless rumour awakens, and how
one finds oneself running into the lines of thought
to which the radical statesman’s eyes must involun-
tarily turn! No man in Australia excels Berry in
command of features. Wo have seen him look
honest when any other man wo know, with onlj a
tithe of Berry’s political career behind him, would
have wanted to bury his nose in a handkerchief.
Wo have seen him look religious, when even Peter
Campbell would have wanted to curl up. We hope
Henry Irving will be here in time to observe Berry
givdng that address. Irving has held that it takes
many years of arduous training to make a man a
consummate actor, but wo shall be able to show
him that, in this sunny land ot Australia, unas-
sisted Nature can transcend the study of years.
The latest candidate for lyric honours is
Mr William Walshe. It was his father who, at the
cost of his own life, saved that of the late G. P
smith from the maniac Supple. As a compensa-
tion for his bereavement, young Walshe was
otiered a berth in the Melbourne Water Supply
Office where, till lately, he laboured, varying the
routine of a Governmei t office by occasionally
singing tenor songs at the principal Melbourne
concerts His day at last come. That dear fasci-
nating little creature, Emelie Melville, persuaded
aim that Providence intended him for comic opera.
Now he is the most envied man in Melbourne, for
on Ve stage he can with impunity fold his long
arms around Emelie, and snatch a kiss from her
tempting lips, without the fear of Mr. Erne ie
careering round and wanting to transform him
into a colander by the aid of a double-barrelled
K Alfred Tennyson has received instructions
from the Queen to prepare some verses for John
Brown’s mausoleum. The Poet Laureate - or
lather his butler (who is a connection of our olbce-
i,ov)_has kindly forwarded adraitotthe verseslor
our approval. We do approvo-m fact, wo con-
sider that Alfred's last effort is about the best
thing he has done, and are truly rejoiced to find
t hat uN venerable right hand has not lost its cun-
ning. Now, draw a long breath and read
The Glorified Gillie.
This spot is watered by a Nation s tear,
To " lav the dust” of him who slumbers near;
The dust of one who, ’mid a royal race.
With matchless skill could always keep his
place.”
It were, indeed, but painting white the lily.
To praise your virtues, oh, you faithful gillie;
The Voice of England prays that you may be
Well cared for in your present place, J.B.
Vvcrv subscriber named Whitelaw should
strengthen his back, rub his eyes, and take Hie
meaning of this paragraph. It is written
for the Whitelaws. The M'Gladrigans
unve nothin-'- to do with it, and the O’Kegans, with
all'their ancestral claims, must give it the go-by.
red years ago there was a Jack White-
T anmksWe Jack was a bit of a rebel, and
himself duly executed at the Market Cross in
ES But, before this happened ho had
nessed the northern land with a son and daughter,
Thl daughter married, but that line died out. The
and that line is still running. Now. the
son inariiodmum inamn Market Cross left some
old iTnd y^rsonal^ property behind him, and this
re oi d ed P to b>°an ‘accumulation from the extinct
wasadiiod to muoh it a n totals under the
rXs of compound interest will take some time to
ru rmt But in the meantime, all the White-
lifws are requested to chip in. There is one White-
laws are rei Melbourne w ho is going homo for
hirshare Oar desire is to start the rest at once.
Make the run as level as possible, and luck to
everybody. 1
Lord Charles Beresford was the only
(Vinor who really earned personal distinction in
the warAgainst t&e Egyptians At the'bombard-
ment of the forts at A-lexaudrla, be rap the little
gunboat, which he commanded right alongside of
one of the heaviest armed batteries, and took as
ranch as he could get of the small quantity of
gruel that was going. But Lord Charles, while
discharging his duty with pluck, always held that
the whole business was a scandal and disgrace to
bis country, and, like The Bulletin, early recog-
nized that Arab! was really the leader of an
Egyptian national movement for reform and sell-
government. He was offered the distinction of
C.B. the other day, in recognition of his gallantry
in the Alexandria affair. But true to his convic-
tions, he absolutely refused to accept a decoration
for pai ticipation in a business which he regarded
as dishonouring to everyone concerned in it. It
would be interesting to learn Lord Charles’ views
about any temperance leader who would accept a
present from a publican in recognition of friendly
offices in connection with a contract for liquor-
selling.
Mr. William Marwood, the “worker-off,”
visited the Houses of Parliament a short time ago,
and listened to some of the proceedings. In the
Commons, he was accommodated with a seat in
the Speaker's Gallery, and there is a dark whisper
that he was observed to be attentively studying
the figures of some of the Irish members, making-
notes in his pocket-book meanwhile, it doesn't
necessarily follow that ho was taking particulars
of their approximate heights, weights, &c., with
an eve to possible business—but it looked like it.
What a pleasant reflection for them that the
worthy executioner amuses himself with calcula-
tions as to the exact amount of “drop” that
would meet their several requireme- ts. By the
bye, it appears that the Chief Secretary for Ire-
land made a very keen scrutiny of Marwood when
he was in the lobby of the House. You sec Mar-
wood has done so much business for the depart-
ment-executed so many orders.
A total stranger to the colony of Victoria-
one who had never read of the gory history of its
past, or heard of the revolutionary radicalism of
its present—was brought by a friend to the Legis-
lative Assembly at the head of Bourko-street, the
other night. The total stranger fixed his gaze
upon one particular v ember of the noble gang ot
legislators, and became suddenly absorbed in re-
flections that sent the perspiration trickling down
his waistcoat. “ Look,” he whispered in a while,
pointing with his right index linger, “those are
assuredly the eyes of a hero. Those lids have not
been wont to quiver in my lady’s boudoir, or that
bright glance to flash before a slab of pearl cream :
that mouth has not been wont to twitch in com-
plimentary badinage before the waxen dolls of
High-toned fashion. Look at those elbows and
those knotted knuckles ! It is not on couches of
luxurious ease, or under the tables of aristocratic
grace that limbs and members such as those are
developed. Sitting here, gazing on that picture,
I, a total stranger to your great country, am able
to diagnose its past, and to behold, panoramically,
the leading scones in its tragic present. Blood
must have fallen in your streets, tears must have
drenched your highways. 1 see it in tint man’s
eyes. Your town must have gone to sleep at
nights with only the most slender hope of ever
seeing the dawn. I see it in that man’s mouth.
There in his elbows and knuckles I read widows
and orphans, temples razed and gaols thrown open.
And his tout ensemble speaks of promiscuous
havoc and of riding to glory on the waves of an
incarnadined sea.” The total stranger was look-
ing at James Miraras. The Argus had refused in-
sertion to a letter of his that morning, and the
little man looked unusually destructive. No man
of his inches can put on a madder aspect than
James.
After the Ministerial picnic, Mr. Dailey
must be regarded as the champion orater (we don’t
necessarily mean orator). Apropos, it is recorded
of the “genial and eloquent W.B.D.” that some
years ago several acquaintances of a certain
English sporting scribe, who had been on a Hying
visit to Sydney, determined to give that horsey
litterateur a farewell spread. Mr. Dailey was asked
to take the chair; and as at that time ho was good-
natured enough to take almost anything, he con-
sented. It is quite true that he had never in his
life seen the guest of the evening, and that
he was utterly Ignorant of the literary capacity
of the gentleman who was about to be
honoured. But that didn’t matter. Not a bit of
of it. W.B.D. stood up and wagged his tongue for
ten minutes—told the company all about the won-
derful genius of “ our dear literary brother ’’—ex-
patiated on the nobleness of sentiment he had
brought to the racecourse, and the gloriously terse
manly, eloquent Saxon which graced his contribu-
tions to the bulwark of England’s liberties, the
sporting Press. Then Mr. Halley talked about
scarlet and silk, and the good old times, and the
brotherhood of man and the bright, eyes of those
glorious women in the British hunting fields; and
when he had invented about ten thousand virtues
and plastered them on the poor scribe, the latter,
who had expected nothing but a square feed and
plenty of square gin, began to cry. “ What’s the
matter ?” inquired the man at his left, who hap-
pened to be a cold, unsympathetic person, and one
who understood just as little of Dailey’s soft sawder
as Hanley Bennett would have understood of
Amezaga’s speech at the Ministerial picnic. “ Oh,”
replied the poor scribe, Avith a sob: “ I neA r er knew
(sob) that I was so good a fellow before. No (sob),
I never knew it all these years.”
Sladen has been to the Wentworth Falls,
and stood “ Avhere once a Prince of England stood,”
and in a Jeames-like strain squeezed out of what
he deems his Muse a sonnet (such a ropy sonnet,
O ye godsl) and got it inserted in the Down and
GrtTMTREE, and made both town and country snig-
ger consumedly. Sladen, after tolling us how the
fall seemeth not to reach the ground at all, but to
dissolve into a sisterhood of earthborn rain imbued
Avith rainbow hues, Avinds up Avith this profoundly
moral sentiment—
•* Down in the vale, a thousand feet below,
A gleam of brighter ’mid the darker green,
Marks Avhere some giant of tree fern doth grow,
Although too small to be distinctly seen,—
[Whew I— Ed. B.]
How painful, then, the littleness of man.
When giants thus are dwarfed into a span.”
That may be truly called infernal bosh. Wc think
the idea would be less boshy if right-about-faced,
so as to have the giantof tree-fern moralising from
below on Sladen above, thusly—
Up on the rock, a thousand feet atop,
A gleam of note-book held in scribbling hands
Marks where some pigmy sonneteer doth hop,
Wondering at Avhat he little understands.
How comfortable the thought that Ave big trees
Cannot be bored by his dull rhapsodies!
Mr. Justice Williams has some reputation
in Melbourne for possessing a head into Avhich an
idea can be got to go. His chief claim to this
meed of praise seems to spring from the way in
Avhich ho can manage a bicycle. Fancy Sir Joe on
a bicycle! [This is a gross and umvarrantable con-
tempt of Court.—Ed. B.j His Honor is a good
size, and has a fine manly way of looking about
him. and although he is not ahvays on his hobby,
yet he treads his “ cycle ” Avith the ease of an “ old
hin ” on the mill. Biit, Avhether on this account or
not, he is reputed to have, as avus said, a head into
Avhich an idea can be got to go. What he appears
to Avant now is a compartment where an idea that
has gone in may have board and lodging if it
should choose to stay. At present, there is no suit-
able accommodation, and some very eligible ideas,
after admiring the lacquered ceiling of the mental
arcade, come out at the other side and go away.
For instance, about a month ago a girl called
Mary was brought before him, charged with having
in Bourke-street at midnight, deftly eased a young
man of a few pounds. The young man handed her
over to the police, and then thought to avoid
exposure by letting the matter drop. The whole
particulars of the case will be found aboutamon.h
back, and among those particulars it will be seen
that his Honor launched out with great severity
against those people who, under any influence
whatever, try to condone an offence At the
City Court, oh the 1st October, William Maunders,
an elderly man, was charged with having piven
a bill of change for £47 17s. to a Jeweller, Citizen
Blashki, in payment of goods, which bill was found
to be valueless. Five other bills were found on
him, and it was then discovered that the six bills
had been stolen from a drawer in the chambers of
Mr. Justice Williams, and it was announced that
his Honor declined to prosecute. We meant what we
said above about getting an idea to go in, and also
what we said about wanting to keep it from going
out.
Moncure D. Conway’s visit to Melbourne
was most opportune. Not but that any man who
rubbed against a live giant of the old lands would
be able to draw a wide-mouthed crowd in any
large town in Australia, if possessed of a little c n-
tidence and an advance agent who knew his busi-
ness. [This is suspiciously like R. S. Smythe’s
writing.— Ed. B.] There's nothing a new com-
munity likes better than to be remembered by the
distinguished men of an old community. But
navigating to the Southern city at the chosen Junc-
ture showed that a bright particular star shone for
the philosophic theologian. The curtain had fallen
on Charles Strong. M‘Each cm and Rentoul wore
Ailing the role of lions couchant on the corner of
an empty stage. Bishop Moorhouse had, as is
usual with him, proved that everybody who
had said anything was a little right and a
little wrong; and the general population was
fldgettlng to see the next mover. Ecce, cried
little Smythe, vir bonus et doctus! It would be
hard to strike off In a few phrases the impression
Mr. Conway made on the audience that tilled i he
Athenaeum on the night of his first lecture. But
it is not necessary to analyse the impression at all.
Mr. Conway then, and on the succeeding nights,
presemed himself simply as a Voice, harmonising
writing with writing. He originated nothing. His
beliefs were born of conscience and study, without
a strain of the blood of enthusiasm. He was an
expounder, simply; a student, enunciating a pro-
blem of Euclid, and with a piece of chalk tracing
lines to the Q.E.D. of the enunciation. Those
who have loved Emerson and Carlyle were glad to
have their love dallied with and toyed with.
Those without that love knew little of what the
lecturer was doing. But, quid praestat 1 Mr. Con-
way la a very gently freaft la the river q( Mel-
bourne theological life. It is his opportune
that is praiseworthy. There was a oinrt. 6^ 688
novelty. K “
The Prince of Wales—G od bless him (if im aci
ble considering the circumstances) isanvthlmrK '
an ardent Sabbatarian. A curious perform
a portion of "lolanthe” was, it is said, givetw^ f
Sunday night at the Savoy Theatre, and°
transmitted by telephone to Mr. Arthur Sullivan'
private house, where the Prince of Wales w««
dining. And, by the way. in Bis op Wilberforce'a
memoirs he is represented as having said that when
staying at Sandringham he used to go to
bed at midnight _ on Saturdays, because he
wished to avoid having to play billiards on Sundav
morning with the Prince of Wales. Halleloojah'!
LumleyHill, ex-M.L.A. for a sheepwalk in
the West of Queensland, is telling the people UD
Cape York way that his head wa« the fountain
Archibald Forbes tapped while dribbling those
sketchy articles to the S. M. Herald. It is not
surprising that Lumley should tell this, but 1th
surprising that there is a pressman in Brisbane
who believes him. That’s what makes us notice
Lumley. Atchibald Forbes could reach a good
way up when he stretched himself for a Hkrass
yarn, but he wasn’t a circumstance to Lumley at
an election meeting. And, somehow, it is always
at election times Lumley works in his literary
proxies. We remember meeting him on the plains
of the Never Never on one of these occasions.
His had his pockets full of ribbons for the girls,
and, if he took you for the most distant rela-
tion of a voter, he would induce you to sit
down beside him on the end of a log, or
the edge of a verandah, or anywhere, and
would give you a pitch about what he had
done with literary men of one sort or another-
how he had set this onb right, brought out that
one, and killed off another one—until you came to
feel that he was the only man in the colony with a
claim to be called a Mecoen well, it is Lumley
we are on, so we won’t mind writing the la«t letters
of that word: there is no use in being offensive.
However, what’s this he pitched on the end of a log
that time ? Yes, we have it. The management of
the Courier was after changing hands, and
“ Specialities,” had given place to “ Endymion.''
“ I nave rooted them out,” said Lumley, knocking
his wooden pipe against the heel of his hand:
“ l’ve hunted Greeley. The paper will be ably
managed now. I put my foot on the Speciality
Man, or the bunch of fellows that used to write
under that heading. * Endymion ’ will be a gentle-
man. Did you read his last things?” And then
Lumley struck a match, and Indicated that he was
responsible for that sage humourist. Ha! Brisbane
pressmen believe Lumley about Forbes! We have
not room to make our meaning clearer.
Archibald Forbes’ gush about his long-lost
brother was amusing to those Queenslanders who
knew the late lamented Allck. If Archie was so
anxious to find him as he pretended, he could have
done so long before, for to our knowledge his
younger brother Peter was in regular communi-
cation with home, and he knew all about Alick.
By the bye, the War man says nothing about this
brother (so he didn’t, perhaps, want to find hum.
who did or does keep a shanty somewhere about
that Mackay where Archie exhibited the “dirty
drop” by making public the private life of people
who honoured the ex-dragoon by asking him to
their houses. Alick was built on something of
the same lines as his brother—more of the hairy-
legged Clydesdale than the thoroughbred,-and,
though fairly educated, he had nene of
that “high tone” which afterwards broke
out all over Archie like the "Scotch Addle,
through rubbing against kings and princes. Alick
published some verses years ago in Rockhampton,
which he called “Voices from the Bush, pnncl-
Eally in praise of rum and Holloway’s puls, mis,
y the way, is at variance with the sentiments of
another—a different sort of poet, A. L. Gordon,
who counselled people to
“ Shun bad tobacco, avoid strong drink—
Abstain from Holloway’s pills. ’
Alick also composed an ode on the opening of a
crushing machine at Morlnish. The Northern
Argus damned the lines with faint praise, and
Alick used to say that his “ songs, at i M
called them, “ had not been treated fair.
The strongest points in Alick’s character were a
love for rum and tobacco, and a dislike to work
and soap and water. He used to tell how, on ope
occasion, he arrived in Rockhampton without toe
price of a “ John Smith,” and even hmCondamuui
bad seen so much service that it wquldn t make a
saddle cloth. However, Alick hit off a towverse 9
which he then wrote out in his big school-bin
hand, and stuck up on a post of
verandah. On that energetic Gaul getting upm
the morning, and seeing a lot of wall-ppUsne
staring at something on the post, he thought It m
I be a writ,and rushed out in great excitement. v> nep.
however, be read the verses, which were,prwa
pally in praise of his own hash and Irish stew eac"
verse ending with the retrain ‘French Charley
-he yelled for the author. Alick (who had slept
in his hair and boots that night) was at the time
supporting a neighbouring post, 8 J*JJP e u 0^e f or
front, and was at once made free of the nou.o
as long as he liked to stop. These verses appean J
in the Rockhampton papers for a good while
wards as an advertisement from Charley.
stroke of luck Jed to Alick’s getting the bUtetw
door-keeper at the theatre, his principal o '
tion for which was, as ne said. that hc knew
all the demUmonde, or turf-cutte to
he termed them, and whom h t e hP house-
exclude from certain portions of “ e “
Another of Alick’s stories was t ; h w tt, n if v °doirn
at the crushing machine at Monnlsh, he Ayn^ick
one night on his sack stretcher, and, hayings 1
a patch at one of the shanties, had a bott e
and a pannikin within easy „ stand for his
borrowed a new novel, and nowder which
candle pulled over a keg ot blasting P ljttle
stood in the corner. He then guttered a
tallow on the top of the keg, and stucktos
u pright. Pipe in mouth, book m hand, ‘ a wever ,
venient; Alick was happy. Herum than any-
that he paid iuore attention to the rutn^^^^
thing else, for, when he thirstily rhe too of the
his blankets burnt with the pipe, an candle,
keg almost charred thro ign withi of the
Alick used to say that he was the Londo „.
song “ The whole Hog or . he bad D"
hard up, he composed the wowte. an « mugic ian
music in himself, he got af r iea( * ° off the score f£j
at one of the music halls—to nm off t offer ed
him to an old Scotch air. 1 ben »» wb o
the song to the well-known ac jts pro ving
gave him live t ounds, and, a nQther fiver,
a great success, gave bun the erai-
Alick was also employed in Lon “ “. 3 education
nent comic singer, bam “% u ch so, i h4 '
had been very much neglected “ in b is verj
he could neither read nor ’chimneys iD!lte
early days had been sent to claa ° when be
of to school—was, in ® so meone to
wanted to learn a new song he g faearti and thi*
it over to him until he had it J m ucll .2f
billet Alick Held for a time. Alick & gyffl tre«,
week and his supper. Q^S^nv^cakeaud
aod with noting but Johnny ca
In unpacking his summer clothes,
Srigsby finds that his last year’s coat is
entirely too large for him.
MARVELLOUS MONCURE.
Many Melbourne men go crazy
Over “ Lectures as we know
(They are often jolly hazy.
And quite singularly slow).
But a proof that’s most emphatic
Of this madness, to be sure,
Is the way they wax ecstatic
O’er the Lectures of Moncure.
For they mutter, “ Oh, how clever!”
“ Oh, how mightily profound!”
(It s a question if they ever
Hear a sentence, wo’H be bound).
And they prate of “ mind exalted;”
Of “ philosophy that's pure ” ;—
Well, Melbourne’s tail is “salted ”
By this marvellous Moncure.
A truce to all this gushing—
It is forced and insincere
(Poor old Common Sense is blushing,
He’s disgusted quite, I fear).
Let us keep our “ bits of butter ”
For doctrines that are clear;
Let us grovel in the gutter
For the people we can hear.
But he remembers plaited coats are all the
“go,” and has his taken in, much to his delight.
MR. ARTHUR SULLIVAN.
A SENSIBLE STYLE.


Nowhere perhaps has the dentist’s art obtained
such high excellence as in Sydney. Certainly we
are in no sense behind any other city. Visitors to
Sydney might, to test this, visit the establishment
of Messrs. Adolphe Gabriel and Company, 18 Wyn-
yard Square, two doors from Pfahlert’s Hotel.
Here the manufacture of every essential in the
profession is carried on. At the rear of the surgery
is a compact little factory where all the requisites
for supplying every dental defect in the human
mouth are made. Messrs. Gabriel and Co. (whose
only address is as above) are always pleased to
show their specimens of artificial teeth to those
Interested. There being two firms of the same
name in the Square, patients will oblige by paying
particular attention to the Christian name, Adolphe,
find the number, 18, Wo doors from pfaMert's
Hotel.— Ad vt.
It has been years since the world first heard
of Wolfe's Schnapps, and to day its virtues are as
fresh and its fame as unclouded as when it first
flashed into public notice.
roil tea, without sugar, as we saw him, when relat-
tig story, when he came to the word “supper,”
hi' eyes gleamed and his teeth, discoloured by to-
)»cco and innocent of a brush, worked up and
rf iwn like the stampers of a quartz mill, as visions
“V the pork chops and bullocks’ hearts, wolfed by
himself and the famous Sam, floated before his
eyes.
1 * * *
A. fellow named Pullen, a Balmainiac by
the bye. puts forward in a letter to the D.T. the fol-
lowing galaxy of names, as those of eminent ex-
imnlars of a pure and refined Christianity:—
L-ephen Styles Goold, Richard M‘Coy, George
lord Carter, John Davies, C.M.G., I. J. Josephson,
w e v Dr. M’Gibbon. Rev. Dr. Beg, Henry Hicks.
Humph I....It is said that the costs in the Bolam
divorce case will exceed £5000. We thought £3000 a
hitrhcost for a prize ram, but it is completely over-
shadowed by £5000 costs forabeau-lamb Mr. W.
rr short, discoverer of the Gundagai asbestos
mine, died in Melbourne Hospital, after an opeia-
tion performed for hydatids. He claimed to have
discovered the richest asbestos mine known, which
is about to be floated by a company, but the exact
locality on the Western railway is kept secret
The Horwitz cause cilebre, finds a parallel in that of
Bolam v. Bolam. Apropos of the latter, and its
unsavoury details, the Australasian pertinently
remarks:— Under ordinary circumstances it is very
unsatisfactory to find a jury failing to agree. But
this finding of non liquet every one feels to be the
onlv one which meets the circumstances of this
highly unpleasant case. If, on the one side, it
seems that the jury did not give its due weight to
the direct evidence of confession brought forward
by the petitioner, on the other it evidently con-
sidered that the admissions of the petitioner as to
his own conduct and general tone of behaviour
irretrievably damaged his case, and lessened his
claim to the relief he sought. It was evident to
the jury, as it is to the public, and as it is probably
now to the petitioner, that the case was one that
should never have been brought into court... Mr.
A. G. Steele ? the proposed|new Agent-General for
West Australia, has for many years been one of
the leading politicians in that peculiarly governed
colony. Like Barlee, he has always been a strong
advocate tor Responsible Government, and now,
like Barlee. he is uoing home to a billet, where he
will trouble Government House and Imperial
autocracy no longer with his democratic ideas. A
brother of his was for a long time a member of the
House of Commons.
* * *
Holloway, the medicine man, is a pillion-
aire Many Legitimist and ultramontane papers
have been quite enthusiastic about the piety of
the late Comte de Chambord. They forgot to
mention it was Strasburg piet-y When an
American called on Ouida, she observed : “I must
tell you, I dislike Americans.” “ Well, that is un-
grateful,” replied the Yank, “ for they’re the only
people who read your nasty books.”
Woman Items
When poor old girls, inured to folly,
Find out their hair is turning grey,
What charm can soothe their melancholy,
What art can hide the lines away ?
The only plan their age to cover,
To hide time’s inroads from man’s eye,
And still to trap some foolish lover,
Is to enamel and to dye.
It is to be hoped that Australians, suffer-
ln?. with “ large families,” may not emulate the
example of a man named Gouldstone, at Walthan-
stovr, England. Gouldstone’s wife, it appears, had
presented him with five “keepsakes” in three
lears and a half, the last “ keepsake” being twins,
me man’s mind seems to have given way under
”°.,®uch happiness, for he now stands charged
with the murder of his five children. He told the
constable “ it was getting too hot, so I thought it
iime to put a stop to it.” He has.
Ruskin is rough on the modern style of
i l *“ 1 V moonlight, and limelight—and anything hut
ajiight—in indecently attractive and insanely-
'jpensive dresses, in snatched moments, in hidden
B „ r ‘l er8 > in accidental impulses and dismal ignor-
ant V? 011118 ' People Smirk and ogle, and whisper
,„U vh >mper, and sneak and stumble, and flutter
oa tumble, and blunder into what they call love.”
timY 10 4 5 been there himself, evidently lots of
after having had plenty of fun, now
? s got old he gives away the whole process in a
cry mean manner.
.This really occurred. In a suburban train
ladies turned the talk on to the one great sub-
nia.’ '., e servant problem, when one said com-
I , hav 0 1 a jewel of a girl-she’s neat,
works hard, and I only give her Os.
Kiri in™ ®i lt how’s that possible ? I can’t geta
th ’t for double !” “Oh, she’s from the
and it mu doesn t know she can get more wages;
wppU- orl ner the wages are high, you know.” A
a ’ tbe Jewel of a girl was working for lls.
“ennia >l n tbo household of the mistress who
nevt c“ 1 f et agirl like that;” and the two ladies
IB ' f r speak now in the train.
who h* s been announced that old Booth,
bestowed upon himself a commission as
hone? 1 ; m ahout to visit Australia, it is to be
vertstw * interest of hysterical female con-
’ caat Mrs. Booth, whose portrait we give,
ifdy of a i t jlR an y him. Mrs. Booth is said to be a
a ddrf4ii„ y ’. ed . ucation > and refined manner, and
1 tlamtrol to . Re invariably free from the cant
r °therTnSJ?K W k lc h too often characterise those
nembers of the Harmy.
01 Branch, the regular fashionable
* ? e tirae«\l r ,f 18 a hannel blouse well-fitting, and
halted 9 „j rn . over a shapely corset. The waist
hjp s .' the skirt comes Just a little below
cuii ' 1 & a t® bare. a pd tight leg coverings
t '°tiars ami? e V Jewellery is worn, as well aswhite
buns, and bunches of tvbjte lilies.
Polite usage forbids any display of shamefaced-
ness; so the modest girl, however uneasy she may
be under the scrutiny of male eyes, must seem as
demurely unconscious as if calves were something
quite unknown in her anatomy. Use soon accus-
toms to it. But last summer an actress, Mdlle.
Btelka Barry, popped out one day in such an
astounding costume that society looked through
its fingers. She wore circus tights from neck to
toes, of elastic knit stuff, without a particle of
drapery, or even of relieving looseness. And thus
she lay on the sand, or swam, while women were
annoyed and men interested.
Clever ladies are not always beautiful.
But the personal attractions of Dona Martina
Gastello are as unmistakable as her abilities. She
is not only one of the most learned, she is one of
the most beautiful, of Spanish ladies. Dona Gas-
tello commenced her studies when she was nine-
teen. She took honours in Latin, mathematics,
Spanish history, physiology, and hygiene. She was
made a Bachelor of Arts in 1877, and selected
medicine as her profession. During the course of
her medical studies, she distinguished herself in
the semestral examinations for anatomy, the-
rapeutics, surgical pathology, and gained prizes in
almost every branch of medical science. Last
year she received the title of Licentiate, and in
October was invested, at the College of San
Carlos, with the dignity of a Doctor. She is the
first Spanish lady who has ever gained the degree
of medicine and surgery. She is only twenty-
eight years of age.
• • •
If you want to gain the undying hatred
of a woman who owns and pets a pug, send her a
package of flea-powder... .A certain widow drinks
nothing but black tea while she is in mourning.
Such consistency is truly pathetic, But what a
nerve she will have for her next husband
“The things we call women” are, according to an
old maid, “simply small packages of aches and
pains done up in velvet and lace and topped off
with ostrich plumes.” Helen, of Troy, was t .e
first woman who wanted to go to Paris and leave
her husband at home A fellow who has had ex-
perience with girls, says it’s easier to drive with
one hand than to row with one hand “ Mamma,
what is a book-worm?” “One who loves to read
and study and collect books.” The next evening
company cabed. Miss Edith, who wears rings in-
numerable, was present. “Oh, mamma, look at
Miss Edith’s rings. I s’poso she is a ring-worm,
isn’t she?” — In some Eastern countries, a man
never sees his wife’s face till the marriage day.
And he often wishes he hadn’t seen it then
“I'll join you, John,” sobbed a dying wife, “where
husbands and wives all meet again.” “Yes,
Millie,” gasped John, “ I know ; but as I married
another woman before you, I can only meet you
in heaven as a friend.” — Two Redfern girls lately
tried which could hold her breath the longest.
One held it so long that she couldn’t begin breath-
ing again when she tried, and was with difficulty
brought round. She had never walked out with a
young man in the Domain by moonlight The
Princess of Wales has put her foot down on
all the glaring strawberry colours. They are
crushed now Crinolettes further developing
in Sydney. Light steels are run right round the
bottom of some of the fashionable dresses
The college president ventured to remonstrate with
Dr. Mary Walker about her eccentric trousers, urg-
ing her to give them up. When, however, the lady
plainly announced that “she would wear them or
nothing,” the president thought it prudent not to
press the matter. ..When a little girl sent Queen
Margherita of Spain a pair of knitted stockings,
the Queen sent her back a small pair, one contain-
ing some money and the other bon-bons, with a
note: “ Which do you like best, dear ?” Next day
Her Majesty received answer: “ Dearest Queen,
your stockings made me cry all night. Papa took
the one with the money, and brother Tom h?s
eaten the bonbons!” When a young man in
Russia marries, the bride’s father'always hands
him a stick as an emblem of authority. It is
decorum for the happy man not to accept the stick
at first, but to protest that the lady will never need
it. The father insists, saying he knows better.
Then the young hubby takes it, and he generally
finds the old man was right The loveliness of
woman lies largely in her capacity for exaspera-
tion— Beauty is but skin deep, at the druggists’
varying prices per bottle — Every woman is a
beauty—to some man or other
A PROPOSAL.
“ Paddle your own canoe,”
They told me long ago;
In mine there’s room for two—
Will you a-boating go ?
— A woman of lady-like appearance, named
Mary Catherine Villars Portescue, was committed
for trial in August, for obtaining money by f 'Ise
pretences, at Bewdley, England. Mary was a
phrenological fraud, of the “ advice on past, pre-
sent, and future ” sort. It transpired that she had
a letter from the r-rince of Wales, but it was not
read out in court—A home paper has discovered
that reversing in the waltz, is not the correct
thing, and states : “The Prince of Wales having
tried in vain to accomplish it, has given up in dis-
gust, and in revenge has barred it from the
fashionable circles which he is supposed to adorn.
Society willingly follows, and the reverse is now
considered bad form in London and on the Conti-
nent. It will not do to dance a step, when a bulky
and clumsy Prince cannot accomplish it.” Of
course, in whatever style Albert Edward leaves his
footprinco on the sands of time,” that must be the
correct way. .In Mass., U.S., •. special Health School
is established, where, in addition to usual studies,
a regime of gymnastic study is made a feature for
girls, and corsets, and so on, are absolutely tabooed.
The benefits derived by 300 girl pupils are said to
be wonderful. In Boston, a Normal School for
Physical Education, has already turned out 300
women teachers of school gymnastics ; and there
is a rush of teachers to learn this particular
branch. The teachers themselves find it infinitely
pleasanter than the usual drudgery, and some be-
come extremely proficient gymnasts....“Hell has
no fury like a woman scorned,” or, it might be
added, otherwise annoyed. Not long since a ser-
vant of Lady Paget’s in Rome, broke a tea-cup—
a precious, early, yearnful tea-cup; and such was
his dread of the tongue of Madame his mistress,
that the unhappy man shot himself....It was at
Croajingolong. Late one night, old Mr. Jones
heard, as he thought, the cows in the garden, and
stepping out he yelled: “He-ah, Towzer! seize’m
old man, sool em!” But as the dog came bounding
by, his daughter Agonisa clutched him by the
collar. “Whatin thunder are yer doing? Don’t
yer know them cows has been here twice this
week? ’ “Oh. Pa,” wasthereply, “you’remaking
a mistake. It’s-it’s—only a calf.” Then the old
man smiled grimly, and told Agonisa she ought to
have let him know sooner.
“BUSHED.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Header, have you ever been “bushed "71 mean,
of course, “bushed” In the fullest sense of the
word. Not merely “slewed” for an hour or so,
but hopelessly, inextricably lost in the unsainted
wilderness of an Australian desert? If you never
happen to have had such an experience, pray
heartily, whilst you read this grim remembrance
of other days, that you never may be so situated.
Some years ago, a party of four, amongst whom
was the writer of this sketch, took up country on
the very edge of the then unknown land, sup-
posed to bo the “ Great Desert of the Interior.” We
were young, full of hope and vigour, and meant
in time to work a fortune out of those apparently
boundless plains, over which roamed our all, in the
shape of about 3000 head of cattle and a large mob
of horses. Ah me ! When I look back upon those
days of long ago, with the added light of bitter
experience, I wonder, with a vague kind of ad-
miring wonder, as I think of the glorious fund of
belief and confidence in ourselves we must have
possessed, to have even dreamt of making money
out of a desert of sour grass—where there was
any—and salt water; such as had been represented
to us in the far away sale-rooms, as “some of the
best pastoral land in the colony, gentlemen, per-
fectly suitable for either cattle or sheep.” But to
my story, and a truce to useless regrets.
At the head of a long sheet of brackish water,
which ran up between two fantastically-shaped
rocks, we had built a house of stones, thatched
with long reeds that grew in the lagoon; and,
stirred perhaps by tender memories of van-
ished years, we solemnly named the site of
our future head station, “ Anstey’s Cove;”
and although wanting were the tall red
cliffs with their emerald crown, wanting the
sequestered, shingly beach, where madrepores
abounded, and from which the sound of the sea
fell ever subdued and soft on the ear in the long
summer days—still, though wanting every attri-
bute of its far-away namesake, “ The Cove,” as we
came to call it, possessed a weird Australian fasci-
nation of its own, which was fully appreciated by
us in that cbarmle,ss land.
About the time ray story opens, we had been
searching unsuccessfully tor some of our cattle,
strayed or driven away by the blacks, and on this
particular evening were, with the exception of one
of our number still absent, sitting down to supper,
tired out after a long day’s bootless quest. Two
stockmen, a blackboy, my two friends, myself, and
missing James Elliott constituted our little party,
over loO miles from the nearest in-station.
Supper was long over, and still no sign of the
missing man. Fears were freely expressed “ that
Jim was bushed properly tins time.” The night
wore on, and, in spite of volley after volley from
rifles and revolvers, no answering shot or coo-eo
could we hear. All next day we searched un-
tiringly for miles around, in three parties, through
the scorching beat, but found no trace.
At length I resolved, terrified and uneasy—lor
James Elliott was a good friend and staunch com -
rade—to make a great detour, on purpose to get
right outside the numberless cattle and horse-
tracks that had bothered us so all day; and, ad-
vising the others to do likewise, and promising to
meet them at Oorabba Lagoon, I started old Stock-
ings off at a smart canter, determining to, if
possible, find some trace of my lost friend before
returning.
T was a very fair bushman, and was in the habit
of remarking that it was nearly impossible for a
man to get thoroughly bushed provided that the
sun was visible, and that he would but keep cool
and not get “flustered.” I was fated soon to find
out all about that.
• riding smartly for, as near as I could
judge, about three hours, and had long left the
last cattle track far behind, when I at length
turned my back on ihe setting sun, which looked
like a ball of molten brass, and rode dispirited, and
noarl v hopeless for my friend, towards the Oorobba,
the waterhole which I had appointed as rendez-
vous for the other searchers.
T spurred ray weary horse towards the lagoon,
hoping almost against hope to hear good news
there of the lost one. The moon, now nearly at
her lull, shone calmly out, her pale beams lying
caressingly on the landscape as if attempting to
alleviate the effects of i he parching heat of the
terrible rays of the December sun.
So, on and on through the still night, stopping
every now and then to empty my revolver, listen-
ing intently alter every shot for a reply, and hear-
V 1 il but u! le i harsh CI T ot some startled night bird,
i thought, too, that I must surely be approaching
Oorabba. The small water-bag 1 always carried at
•, he £ a £ 1( U 0 was empty, and thirst began to make
itself tclt.
Impatiently I struck into a canter, and soon bad
the satisfaction of seeing, as 1 supposed, the curious
hill or rather “ tor,” that marked the whereabouts
of the lagoon. With a joyful shout I galloped up,
and stood in amazement. The hill I could have
sworn to, but lagoon, or sign of water, there was
none. To add to my astonishment, away to the
right stood similar curiously-shaped bare rocks,
looking solemn and stately in the moonlight, but
utterly strange to me.
After riding about for a little, I took the saddle
oft Stockings, and lay down for a while to think it
over. But the more 1 thought, the more bothered
I became; and, at length, hungry, thirsty, and
weary as I was, fell off to sleep. .
I woke up suddenly, with a scared kind of feel-
ing, to find the hot sun shining full on my up-
turned face.
Jumping up, I soon discovered that Stockings
had left during the night, and heartily cursed my
stupidity for not hobbling him with the stirrup-
leathers before I fell asleep so suddenly. But,
after looking around a little I could scarcely blame
i he old horse for absconding, although it might
mean deaih to his muster—tor as far as the eye
could reach grow not a blade of grass, only a kind
of straggling, thorny, weed, that I never remem-
bered to have seen before.
It was a blue look out, and I felt it to be so.
Climbing with difficulty to the summit of one of
the highest tors, composed of a brownish, brittle
kind of sandstone, I gazed on a scene of barren
desolation. Veritably I stood on “agreat rock
in a weary land,” and the weariness stretched
apparently without end, and on every hand.
At length, far away to the N.E., I thought I
could faintly discern a few straggling trees, and
for these I determined to make. 8o, descending, 1
commenced my weary tramp, sinking up to the
instep in some places in coarse sand that with et'erv
puff of hot suffocating wind flew up in clouds,
adding to the torments 1 already endured from
thirst and hunger, whilst the pitiless scorching sun
seemed to eat yvith its withering heat into my very
brain.
After tramping painfully for five or six miles, I
was nearly dead beat, and lay down yvith a groan
of despair. I yvas literally gasping, and my breath
as it came and yventmadea strange rattling noise
in my t iroat, yvhich felt syvollen to four times its
natural size, yvhnstl could feel my parched tongue
rattling in my moistureless mouth. I was bushed.
And so, getting up and staggering a feyv paces,
only to fall again, till night once more came, andl
the unconcerned-looking placid moon again cask
her beams around the miserable exhausted wan-
derer, driving mo nearly frantic, with muttered
curses and entreaties 1 again feebly staggered on,
I had a loaded revolver in the broad leathern
belt around my yvaist, but such a thought as mak-
ing use of the weapon to put an end to my misery
and pain never came into my head for a moment.
Ah! it was horrid! and, even at this distance of
time, a shudder runs through me as I write.
Another day, and still feebly on. through a dead
land yvhere yvas no single Jiving thing.
Of that last day and night I have only a dint,
dream-like recollection of being possessed yvith
but one overpowering, irresistible desire—the de-
sire of getting along, along at any price, at all
hazards: and of casting ayvay, alter every stagger-
ing, syvooning fall, boots, hat, and every article of
clothing. Conscious only of a mad anger at the
delay incurred by falling—recking or feeling no-
thing of the cuts, scratches, and bruises I received
thereby. Till at length, stretched out before me,
glimmering silvery yvhite in the moonlight, lay
yvater.
Water, long and clear, with sedgy banks, upon
yvhich greyv a feyv stunted trees.
Naked and bleeding I crayvled towards if, and
lying flat on the ground—for I yvas ayvare, even at
that supreme moment, of a vague feeling of horror
that prevented me from rushing bodily into it as
yvas my first Impulse—I approached my lips to the
surface, yvhen—O God!—out of those glassy depths
stared full into mine a well-knoyvn, well-loved
face, pale and emaciated, yvith wide open eyes and
fallen jayv. Naked and white he lay, the long,
broyvn hair stirring gently to and fro, as alight
night breeze ruffled the still yvater.
I had found him at last, but ’twas a ghastly
meeting!
Tottering to my feet yvith what was meant for
a shriek of horror, but sounded simply as the un-
earthly gibber of a dumb man, I fell back senseless
on to the sedgy banks of that dread water.
It yvas many a long day after that I recovered my
senses to find myself, or rather a shadoyv of myself,
an inmate in the fever yvard of K n Hospi al,
and could bear to be told hoyv they had found me,
yvandering naked and feeble in and out of the
great salt lagoon, a raving madman, but never de-
sisting from fruitless draggings and tuggings at
an ayvful “something,” that laid calmly enough
there in the shalloyv yvater, and from which, yvhen
laid reverently on the coarse grass, I could only be
separated by force. God knows, it could not have
taken much I
They buried him under one of the stunted coola-
bars, with the name and date ot his death rudely-
carved thereon by hands long since dead and cold
themselves For, of the rest, one lies in the church-
yard of a quiet little French village, shot through
the heart by a Prussian bullet, the other found a
seaman’s grave yvhen the Cospatrick Hung her
burning timbers athyvart the ocean.
“The Cove” is noyv part of a “territory” re-
cently acquired by, perhaps, the most powerful
pastoral company in Australia. May they have
better luck yvith their venture than yve had with
ours!
L. L.
Denneigh, N.8.VV.
Mamma.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Yes, you are but a young Mamma,
My senior by a lew short seasons.
And hardly changed since your Papa
Advanced the reasons
Which vow obedience—as you spurned
Poor me, whose heart seemed really broken,
For Briggs’s money, and returned
My boyish token.
Old Briggs is dead who made you rich.
And you were wise beyond all seeming,
For long I struggled in the ditch,
A dunce at scheming.
Ah, still. Mamma, you drain the cup
Of Life with grace; your waist is smallish,
Though three line girls are growing up.
And one is tallish.
You sweetly live in these again,
Most youthful, handsomest of mothers,
Bewitching as in moments when
I loved your brothers.
The same clear eyes look on me now,
Yourteeth would conquer e’en a dentist;
And Time has writ on your smooth brow
“ To joy apprenticed.”
You stand beside one blooming child,
And she, I vow, is just as bulky;
You smile and frown, as erst you smiled
Or frowned when sulky.
You sing the old duets—what day
Sang wo them not ere things were altered ?
Whose voice is best, ’twere hard to say—
The child’s voice faltered.
Mamma, back goes my heart to her
Who spoke in kisses when 1 sought her;
But, now, in truth, I much prefer
Her eldest daughter.
AN EVERY-DAY OCCURRENCE.
The suburban resident who has but a
minute to ealeh the last train, and has left
his season ticket on his desk—and the con-
ductor is not a friend of his, either.


o
P E II A
H 0 U
E
Lessee Mr. W. J. Wilson
Sub-Lessee Sig. B. Majeroni
Acting Business Manager.. Mr. 8. Genese
Last Six Nigbts of Sam’l O’Posen, and Last Week
but one of Mr. Polk.
THE HIT OF THE SEASON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
SAM’L O’POSBN.
Mr. POLK as Mr. POLK
Mr. POLK SAM’L O’POSEN, Mr. POLK
Mr. POLK Commercial Traveller. Mr. POLK
Mrs. POLK, acknowledged the most accom-
plished Vocalist In the colonies, will Introduce, by
request, the two popular songs—
“ The Nightingale's Trill ” and
“ The Pretty Girl milking her Cow.”
Private Boxes, £2 2s ; Dress Circle, 5s; Stalls, 3s,
PIT, ONE SHILLING.
Box office now open at Huenerbeln’s, 411 Geo.-st.
Tickets for sale at Roberts’s, adjoining Theatre.
G
AIBTY THEATRE
Lessee and Manager. Herr Bandmann.
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT,
Re-appearanoe of
HERR BANDMANN,
in his famous Character of FABIAN and LOUIS
DM FRANCHEI, in the
CORSICAN BROTHERS,
or Ihc DUEL IN THE SNOW.
FRIDAY,
Kc-appcarance of Miss LOUISE BEAUDET.
EAST LYNNE.
SATURDAY,
SYDNEY L 1 F E ,
Box Office at Paling’s and Gaiety Theatre, where
seats can be booked daily.
Admission — Orchestra Chairs (reserved), at
Paling’s, 4s : Stalls, 3s; Circle, Family Circle, 2s :
ENLARGED PIT, Is.
THEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Managementof
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & Musa rove.
THIS and EVERY EVENING,
at a quarter to 8,
BLAND HOLT’S TRULY GIGANTIC
DRAMATIC COMBINATION,
in the grand Drulv-lane (London) Success of 1882,
PLUCK, PLUCK,
PLUCK.
A STORY OF £50,000.
Prices as usual. Box office open from 11 till 4 .
HALL
Masonic
York-street.
Lessee and Manager .. .. Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
The Horae of Incessant Mirth and Music.
The Most Comfortable and Select Lounge in Sydney
ANOTHER SUCCESS ACHIEVED.
SIXTH WEEK, SIXTH WEEK
of
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and
SPECIALITY UNION.
Admission—Fauteuils,4s; Stalls, 3s; Pit, 2s; Gal, Is.
C. A. MADDICK, Secretary.
ly/J" ISS BLANCHE REIVES
will give her amusing LECTURE on the
“MISSION OF SONG ” ;
Also, the laughable social farce,
“MRS. ROBINSON JONES,”
AT MOSS VALE, OCTOBER 13th and 15th.
Picton, Liverpool, and Sydney to follow.
Waxworks and glassblowers now
open, opposite the Central Police Court, 3
doors from Royal Arcade, Gcorge-street. One of
the largest and most artistic exhibitions of Wax-
works and Glassblowing ever seen In Sydney, with
all the latest novelties, including the Phcenlx Park
murderers, and a host of other figures. Admission,
Is ; children half-price.
EDUCATIONAL.
MISS LYDIA HASTINGS instructs in VOICE
BUILDING, ELOCUTION, PUBLIC and
•PARLOUR READINGS. Class at SYDNEY
1CHOOL OF ARTS, Friday, 4 p.m. ; and at
SYDNEY ARCADE, Room 35, Thursday, 3 p.m.,
Wednesday. 8 p.m. (Ladies and Gentlemen).
Visitors invited.
Private Lessons, for Ladies or Gentlemen,
S4 HUNTER STREET, opposite Elizabeth-street.
Terms for Schools or Clubs on application.
M
ADAME ANNA KING,
CHARACTER PARTS and HEAVIES
(Town only).
Lady Dedlork, Hortense. Mrs. Cregan, Madame
Deschapellep, &c., Ac.
Communications invited from Managers.
Address—Care of Mr. J. SOUTH.
Bulletin Hotel.
TO PROFESSIONAL TROUPES.
■\TQW open for engagement at NYNGEN, near
Railway Station, the
“ASSEMBLY ROOMS,”
a largo and well-appointed HALL. Apply to
HEARD & M’KENN A., Agents.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
rilO LET from 5th November next. Terms on
I application to Thos. Setriqht, care of
Elvy and, Co., 329 G eorge-street, Sydney ; or the
undersigned,
x JAMES B. H1CKIE,
Brisbane.
T
HOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR OF THE
ZULU WAR.
NEW DIORAMA
OF
EGYPTIAN W A R I
W. H. THOMPSON. Proprietor.
SYL. RYAN, Agent.
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL, CUDAL.
To Travelling Companies, Lecturers, &v.
TO LET, the above large and well-appointed
Hall. Sitting accommodation lor over -00
people ; splendid piano, scenery, Acc. lerms
reasonable. Apply to
H. HURLEY TORR,
Hon. Secretary,
School of Arts, Cudal.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £100,000.
Allow Interest as follows i-SEVEN PER CENT,
on fixed deposits for 12 months, 11 VE 1 ER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods , FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £50 m the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices. 1 Park-st.
J., V. WAREHAM* Manager,
Tla.© ESellaTbl© Eu.g'grles!
NO SECOND CHEAP HOUSE.
22 and 24 CLARENCE STREET, ONLY,
TOR GOOD GOODS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS~& WAGGONETTES,
BACKBOARD WAGGONS, AND EVERY - STYLE OF BUGGY.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Clarence-street.
H
VIRTUTIS GLORIA MERGES.'
COALCLIFF COAL.
This NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY supplies the CHEAPEST, CLEANEST, and
1 s THRIB'TIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony,
£1 per Ton net, delivered within city bounds.
Th 'nsttn°and'cleane^ 0 flre*t ouleTft L^ZToi
N^wlJwtlecoal hotdoesR splinterandflyoft like the Western, but it affords that domestic desideratum
coal of heating- an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a
charcoal or breeze fire, while it imparts to the steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unn hole-
some fumes given off by a breeze or gas fire.
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
Office: A. B. BLACK, 247 George Street.
|3f DEPOT : WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
s
a
o
Q
O
50
O
CP
Ct
H7
As*
&
&
C*
VERY CAREFULLY MADE
BROOK’S SIX-CORD
S °FT COTTON I & MA CHINE S£W , NG)
NEW SHOULDER REEL ,L White, Black &all Colours «2je
BROOK’S PATENT
GLAC£ THREAD
1. NEW SHOULDER REEL
JAMES®* AR-TIMS CDMPY
389 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite Royal Motel).
The BICYCLE and TRICYCLE DEPOT of New South Wales.
Intending purchasers should write to, or call on us, as we keep a. full assortment of Bicycles and
Tricycled always on view, and take pleasure in showing and explaining the different points of merit,
and the advantages of our different machines.
Our Bicycles
ai - e unquestion-
ably at the head
of all competi-
tion, and being
specially de-
signed for colo-
nial require-
ments, cannot
fail to give
every purchaser
satisfaction.
Our Tricycles
combine every
advantage
claimed by our
com petitors,
and have many
most valuable
improvements
which no other
We CONFIDENTLY and with PLEASURl^retbr^Uendlng•purchasers to A^XpF A 9^uB 3 BICYCLE
The ONE-MILE CHAMPIONSHIP of NEW SOUTH WALES was won on a «*VB<Cl AL CTUB BICY CLE.
The ONE-MILE CHAMPIONSHIP of ENGLISH ® N.O.O. was won on a CLUB RACER.
The Best Four-mile Time Record was made on the CLUB KAUEK.
The Beet Half-mile Time Record was made on the CLUB RACER.
The Best Quarter-mile Time Record was made on the CLl B kai Pitt.
Janies Martin & Campy., 389 George-streefc, Sydney.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED),
STRUTH’S WHARF and NEW WHARF
(Foot of King Street).
Offices: 42 KING STREET.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS wvn
NE8DAYS, and FRIDAYS. ’ ED -
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH . .
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS* 1
Steamers Brisbane to Port Mackay and Townsi-m
every fortnight. “anil*
Bunlnyong
Barrabool
Burwah
Cheviot
Derwent
Edina
♦Gabo..
♦Balmain
♦ To arrive
Fleet of Steamships:
.. 3000
.. 1000
1000
1500
500
400
3000
600
Geelong
Keilawarra .
Konoowarra
Lenra
Moreton
Rodondo
You Vangs ..
•500
1500
1500
fiQO
la n
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Umited'.
43 King Street, Sydney.
SYDNEY TURF CLUB
(REGISTERED.)
ANNIVERSARY DAY,
January 26, 1884.
The iimeieitj Ejiliu;,
A HANDICAP SWEEPSTAKES of 10 Povg ( . 8 ch
5 forfeit, or no liability it declare) t v day 0 f
General Entry, with fOO sovs added'; second
horse 50 sovs. and third 25 sovs from the pri/p.
The winner of any handicap of the value n( ion
sovs after the declaration of the weights tn
carrv 51 bs.: of 200 sovs. 71 bs.; of 300 sovs, mils
penalty. One mile and three furlongs. Entrance,
one sovereign.
Nominations to be made with the 8.T.C. nr
V.R.C. Secretary on or before 4 p.m. on Thursdav,
18th October, 1883. Weights after Tattemllg Sow
Year’s Day Meeting.
The General Entries for the above Meeting a r «
to be made with the Secretary of S.T.C. or V.lt.i,
on or before 4 p.m. on THURSDAY, 3rd Jamiarv,
1884. Handicaps to be declared on or before
TUESDAY, 15th January, 1884.
Entrance-One sov. for each race. A.J.C. Rules.
T. S. CLIBBORN, See. P.T.C.,
163 King-street.
£20,000
To be distributed on the
Melbourne Cup, 1883,
To be run on November 6th.
ALL PRIZES !! NO BLANKS!!!
“THE MELBOURNE TURF CLUB"
Desire to inform the Sporting Public that tlirv
have made arrangements for holding a.Mammoth
Sweep on the forthcoming Melbourne Cup, whi. h
for Novelty, Fidelity, and Advantage has no equal
in Australia.
Capital £20,000 in 20,000 Shares of £1 Each.
First Horse £3000 1 4 Prizes of £500 £»•]
Second 1000 8 „ *0 m
Third „ .. 1000 10 „
Starters Divide ... 1000 1 20 ,,
Non-starters 1000)
The remaining £5000 will he employed by it-
Club in making a book on the Cupand other rar ■
that is. laying and taking the odds by a
the success of which has been practically pro'-,
It is estimated that the profits accnjmg from t -
source will range from £9000 to flWWj hew*-
of which both capital and profits,
divided amongst subscribers who were ,V*
ful in drawing cither a horse or a prize m
Mammoth Sweep. Laeh Subset iher n III ,
obtaining a Prize, be it large or vrwU. Tnet
motors of the M. T. C. are well-known
gentlemen, and guarantee the pbov e to he a
fide affair in every particular. Ten l ipr . ,
mission deducted from all wmnings. nraw m.
take place on October 28th. Results fitted mm,
d lately after. Subscribers who wish to p
will please notify us in tunc. Add 3d. foi iri .
result. Address —
THOMAS BENTLEY. Secty.
M. T. C., Melbourne.
Bad Legs, Constitutional
Diseases, &c.
MEDICATED VAPOUR BATHS.
For those diseases where
ered through the stomach impair the fgl , l0
,f the unhappy recipient, and in many
Ur °’ FACTS ARB STUBBORN THINGS.
H. W. COOPER eradicates the ! «
sases of disease, without medicin^ 11 for
ess than a sixth of the time requ
iy any other treatment.
Relief from Rheumatic Pah™-
To Mr. Cooper.—I can yo u
hank you for the rema rk aWe p u
’ffeeted in my case. I have sutiere docto ys >;
:or over 10 years ; I hav e trie but I P*
aken everything advertised t> over*.'*JJ
tvorse, and sick of try ing. * 3 comP
very stout, and, keeping a shogj £* t0 *o t* J .
walk about. My friends n0t »
[ now wish I had gone at firs l ye been poun*
suffered so long, and 't would ha u - and
my pocket. My legs are botb nea mDe nf» ,
iiiite well. If anyone doubts ™* » me or wr ,
your treatment, let c , su ftered. I hi*-'
my friends who knew how I suffe yigited rov
1 improved fast from the first day -
August 4th, 1883. ’ unknown the 1 *, !j
To Mr. Cooper.—I wish t° IP! * j had had •„
fltof your treatment m myRelief
for two years, and could g pr ft 'month. ,
you cured them in less tl a Brother-
R. T. EastWAV (Bastway Geor?e4 tree
,
H. W. C. has in the c<#*
a newspaper, and he nas
twelve months. _
340 CROWN STRK f ' T ’ 0PP ° 8it


KING TAWHIAO.
Monk’s New Zealand Herbal
Remedies (Registered).
Trade mark—“ King Tawhiao.”
mHE N.Z. HERBAL EXTRACT
I can be administered to Infants of the most
tender age, and to all other patients, however weak
and delicate, with perfect safety and certainty of
IMMEDIATE RELIEF AND EARLY CUKE.
THE N.Z. HERBAL REMEDIES
are made solely
FROM HERBS, SHRUBS, AND BARK,
indigenous to New Zealand only,
and NO DRUGS hitherto known to the medical
world axe contained in the above medicines.
The N.Z. Herbal Extract cures A BSOLUTBL Y
Dysentery, Diarrhoea, Choleratic Diarrhoea, and
Cholera, as NO OTHER medicine yet known t<*
the world can do. It CURES, equally well, chronio
or acute cases of the WORST kinds, and gives
INSTANTANEOUS RELIEF in every case.
From Capt. Cromarty, U.S.S. “Penguin.”
Auckland, June 19th, 1883.
Dear Sir,—I am much pleased with the action of
your “ Herbal Extract” that you supplied me with.
On the passage to Fiji I cured one man of an
attack of Dysentery with three doses, and on
the return voyage a lady brought a child on
board very ill with Chronic Dysentery, which the
doctors could not cure in Fiji; the second day
the Dysentery stopped and the child left at
Auckland getting quite strong and hearty. I
am, dear sir, youi’S faithfully.—W. L.Ckomartv
Wliat a Medico Says!
Ranglora, July 7,1881.
Six’,— Having carefully examined the N.Z Herbal
Extract, I find it to be a skilfully prepared vege-
table preparation, possessing the properties of tn©
plants from which it is derived in a highly con-
centrated state, a fact which i have verilled by
evaporating a fluid drachm placed in a watch-
glass over a spirit lamp. On weighing the result,
a dark green extract, I found the weight to be
grains. On further sxxbmitting the extract t<»
amilysis I found it to be rich in tannin. In a large
number of cases of ordinary diarrhoea, as well as
in many chronic cases and in dysentery, I have
proved it to contain great specific control, added
to the unusual feature in a majority of diarrhoea
medicines, that it does not subsequently constipate
the bowels. I fell satisfied that, from the number
of trials I have been enabled to make of it in a
somewhat extensive practice, it is a most valuable
addition to modern thex-apexxtics.
The following cases are taken at randown from
m y note book :—
Case No. 1.
Mrs. M —, West; Byertou, suffered for two
years from Caronic Dysentery, which had reduced
her almost to a skeleton. After a fortxxight’s trial,
not only had the Diarrhoea stopped, but she com-
menced eating meat without pain and the usual
concomitant vomiting. In two months she had
gained Mbs weight.
Case No. 2.
A. G., child, aged five years. Fortnight Diarrhoea.
Was effectually cured on the third day.
Case No. 3.
A soldier who had contracted Dysentery in
India got a small two ouxxce phial, and was well
before he had finished half of it.
(Signed)
Charles DeLacy MacCabthy, M.A., M.B., &c.,
Trinity College, Dublin,
Surgery, Rangiora, Jxily 1881.
Monk’s New Zealand Herbal Mixture
for Neuralgia.
The mixture acts like a charm in the above pain-
ful disease, and giving instantaneous relief.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
From Captain Kennedy, U.S.S. “ Hauroto,”
Port Chalmex-s, February 7th, 1883.
Dear Sir,—Thanks for the Medicine you were
kind enough to send me. I have only to say that
in my case—a severe attack of Neuralgia in the
head—it afforded mo considerable relief. It has
also the advantage of not being in the least nanse-
ous like most remedies.
Mr. H. D. Monk.
I remain, dear sir,
Yours faithfully,
A. Kennedy.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
Any Person suffering from DYSENTERY or
DIARRHtEA (no matter how long standing, or
how bad the case) will be supplied with MONK’S
NEW ZEALAND HERBAL EXTRACT, a Certain
Remedy, FREE OF CHARGE (upon production
of a card or a note from the Mayor or an Alderman
of the Municipality In which he or she resides t»
the effect that the sufferer is too poor to pay for
the Medicine), on application to
FRED. J. MUIR and CO., or
HORACE D. MONK, Proprietor,
99 Elizabeth-street. '
SUNDRY SHOWS.
theatre Royal““ Pluck.” p. 8.
opera HouBB- i -“BamT o’Posen” lb.
r » t ETY ThkaTke— “Corsican Brothers” ”... ib.
Masonic HAlu.—Federal Minstrels ib.
Thursday night saw the last, bestattended,
(md perhaps, best of the Vogrich concerts. Beet-
hoven’s “Moonlight Sonata”—so unmeaning to
•he untrained, so suggestive to the cultivated ear
ITwas the first on the list. The whole vocabulary
“gush” has long since been exhausted by
pffusive “dilletante” in praise of this fine compo-
sition. We also are sorely tempted to dwell on
“the sweet suggestiveness of its riopling alidante,”
the fire of its "allegro,” the “ light and shade ” of
Jhc whole, but we remember that these terms.
Particularly tae last, are precisely those applied by
-ountry reporters to the band of a travelling
h’ircus when the Cornet-player interpolates some
double-tongUeing into his part. The piece was
finely play* 3 *!, the performer’s rendition of chro-
matic passages being the delight and the despair
„t amateurs. But, while dwelling on the cun-
n'ligb -contrived triplets in the opening move-
mGnt, the question whether, after all, the acknow-
ledged masterpieces in literature, science, or
music, can ever be really popularised, instinctively
arises. Homer, Virgil, Dante, Racine, Goethe,
Shelley, are but names to the vast majority, even
nf those conversant with the tongues in which
they wrote. Newton's “ Principle,” and the
"Susteme dela Nature” of La Place are known to
a few only. So with music. The melodious
Mpaart and Bellini will always hold their own in
popular estimation against the harmonies of
Wagner and the stately march of Beethoven. Noi-
ls this asubject for wonder. For one who delights
(n the Involved constructions of Milton and Gib-
bon, a hundred derive pleasure from Gold-
smith's simplicity or the perspicuity of Vol-
p\ire. H public performers would but remember
this when compiling their programmes there
would be fewer complaints of empty benches
and unappreciative audiences. Mr. Hallewell sang
Schubert'S “Wanderer,” in every selection of
hass songs published great music-houses,
this composition will he found with a certainty
slightly iritating. The result, however, is, that it
(• known to the majority of an average audience.
Mr. Hallewell has a professional ensemble which
impressed many, and a voice which on this
particular evening seemed to impress few.
He evidently felt a commendable interest
in the “Wanderer’s” fate—an interest that
the audience did not appear to feel in the same in-
tensity. He was recalled, but the motives which
prompted the encore we do not feel called upon to
analyse. Some of the audience tittered, and many
of the rest looked stonily on as if they would like
to kill somebody. The years of hard, up-hill work
that had to be gone through before one could hope
to render the bass in “Chopin’s Polonaise” as
Vogrich did, suggested to amatem s in the audience
what was before them if they wished to reach the
summit of executive excellence. Encored, he
played an andante, every bar of which was like the
wall of a lost cause. Then Rees appeared and
sang. The silence, arising from the desire not to
lose one of her superb notes, was suggestive. The
piece, “ Noel.” was adapted for the display of her
voice—of its sweetness, volume, and sympathy.
As the pure notes filled the ball without the objec-
tionable “ tremolo ” that, once so highly prized, is
now justly considered a defect, we felt that, in
losing her. her native Stawell lost its most re-
munerative goldmine. No. 5 on the programme
consisted of a “ Gavotte Hongroise,” the “ Old-
fashioned Orchestra,” and a “Staccato-Caprice,”
nit composed and played by Herr Vogrich.
Quaintness characterised the first, quaintness and
brilliancy the second. Of the third—the “ Staccato-
Caprice—we can only say that, during its per-
formance, our thoughts were running on the ages
that must have passed since the performer climbed
on a high stool to Struggle through the five-finger
exercises of Haydn’s “ Surprise.” The “ Caprice ”
is advertised for sale, and this being the case, the
question arises whether it was judicious to play it
[n public? Those aspiring youths and maidens who
beard it on Thursday night, and observed the pro-
bciency that was required for its rendition, must
be pardoned if they hesitate before trying or buy-
ing it. No. 6 was a duet from “Les Huguenots ”
by Miss Rees and Mr. Hallewell. It was well re-
ceived. Of Chopin’s “ Nocturne in G ” and "Ma-
zurka” we cannot say much, as a child was crying
behind us all the time. Being the last concert, the
attendants probably overlooked this undesirable
adjunct, but we would suggest in a friendly way
that members of that all-important (in our own
estimation) estate—the fourth—who attend to give
the public the benefit of extensive knowledge,
should be removed as far as possible from infants
in arms. The whole of No. 7 was lost to us by this
obstreperous baby. It is not too much to say that
the enjoyment of quite fifty people was spoilt.
I rnfessionals should remember that the noise we
tolerate, and even feel thankful for, when the
salvation Army band is rendering an improvised
cadenza, becomes positively irritating when the
’manees of a classical piece have to be followed. Of
the two remaining numbers, Meyerbeer’s “Shadow
oong ” and an arrangement of Scotch and Irish
Rlrs by Vogrich, it is necessary to say little. In
•he former, the intricate paths laid out by the
euthor of “Roberto,” as if to puzzle the unwary
Soprano, were safely trodden by Miss Rees. In the
'alter, Herr Vogrich, by means of “ Eileen Aroon,”
'ho “ Pretty Girl Milking her Cow,” the “Camp-
bells are Coming,” “Rohm Grey,” and the “ M la-
urel Boy,” brought hack to many of us the misty,
leather-clad hills of Scotland, and the green, plea-
sant valleys of the “ Sod.” So ended the first series
01 Vogrioh ” concerts.
* * * *
You’ve seen a country where it snows,
And falling Hakes did sight 'em;
For evTy flake in this week’s shows
, You'll see we’ve got an item.
So ’twill be seen that each of those
That this hash eons will read of pros.
I here! We’re like Judge Dowling: we must have
'*ur little joke. Well, what’ll you have first? No
used to ask. Glance down, then, Andalusian orbs,
anq read that Jim Rain ford has bought from Geo.
'arrell the lease of the Adelaide Theatre Royal
er six months, beginning November 3, and that
ie is going to play Coppin (it’s some time now since
■ eorge did his last farewell tour!), with Jennie
to follow. News, this, eh ? And as “Airedale”
stat 8 'i 8 w bere the Turners are located, wc may
th e f (,r her edification that they are playing at
uc Melbourne Opera House. We don’t Know
uerc they are located; but it is certain to be
iro C 5- c the ragout is more than ordinarily hash-
caetiye. Vlan! And lot us not leave gentle
jJ-jflrie EA'kht out of it. but hasten at once to set
hvtu that s^e has i° ined Wybert Reeve. Wybert,
y Jhe way, was to have gone home several times,
given them a touch of Foseo in London. But
Rin »P?’ you asked him, he would reply, with
I Foseoing, boot I shange my mind.” Then
,ou d kill him.
* * « *
you’re watehiug for it,H we know. W e
vpIm it; ourselves once. Well, then, Wood-
ehn^ 8 i U^cus is doin £ a very big thing in Christ-
lurcij; but as he has “ treble clowns,” wc should
thi J 1 )® prosperity would not last long. It was only
other day that Gill, the American eireus-man,
vT b'itted suicide. That was after hearing for the
tlme ln thirty short years one of his “ chaste
iniVo^ sper i an jesters” give theaudienee the follow-
,,,1= conundrum; “Who was the father of Zebedee’s
“UjOrtn ?” Answer, amid the wildest whoops:
irrit? * / ‘ e hedee.” And then, of course, the after
’’ Z, once suggests itself. Clown, to audience:
ManJL you’ve all gone through your whoops,
i-ranv mois^ lle Caraconi will go through hers.” A
thoVo Wlt " the whip, a “ Woodyear!” (shrieks) from
the 'W; and enter Mademoiselle, protected from
tulle, and from the vulgar gaze by
to v! i, w e re full of it just now, but not too full
8trpS r you that the Pandora Theatre (Panton-
tho* 0 London) has been turned into a post-office;
the r.r n Wallace has joined Dunning, and that
s “rin,^ NTERBURY Times intimates with perfect
‘‘Pl«v U i 8ne8s that Mr. and Mrs. D’Orsay Ogden are
of r ni , ? to crowded houses in Parramatta.” And,
-nurse, you have heard of Kyrle Reflow! Well,
a London paper says he has “compromised
himself with a daughter of the late Mr. Sothern.”
However, we are glad to see that nothing
is hinted about the lady compromising herself !
And while the valve is open, learn that Arthur
Garner has secured “the Merry Duchess,” and
that Knight Aston has secured “ the Merry
Duchess,” and that a lady in Sydney professes to
have the “sole colonial right.” Learn also (and
mark, if you like, this being a free country) that a
Birmingham lady of Society, one Miss Emily L.
James, is said to knock Mrs. Langtry out of time
altogether—for charms, talent, and many other
things. She is to make her debon as Julia in the
“ Hunchback,” and “ an electric success is prophe-
sied for her.” What we say is that if her success
is not “ electrie,” coming, as she does, from Bir-
mingham, it should, at any iatc, bo “ electro.”
We ll pause after that, but only for a minute, for
you’ve got. to know that the New York critics
pronounce Oscar Wilde’s “Vera” afailui-e (which
may mean anything), an item which naturally
suggests to us that Professor Arraand is lecturing
at Toowoomba. And the fact that Sefton Parry’s
“A Bright Future” is a failure at the London
Grand, runs us right into the item that old Josh
Pick., who opened at Christchurch on the 18th, has
taken to giving away gifts. Pick, and two (other?)
live geese are the attraction nightly.
* * * *
We want to impress upon the public as
a body that Miss Genevieve Ward and Mr. W.
H. Vernon are to open at Melbourne in March
next; that the “Silver King” will be produced
here at Easter; that Oal'ner has secured—by way
of an attraction—LuScombe Searrell’s “Estrella,”
re-engaged Titheiadgc, and secured—we are
quoting—the following artistes :-“Phil Day,
Harry Taylor, C. H. Fenton Redwood, H.
Bennett, Miss Ada Lee, and Miss Alma Santon,”
Of these we only know Alma Santon and “H.
Bennett.” The latter is assistant stage-manager to
Rignold, so must be twins, The dramatic world
would want considerably stretching before it could
contain two Harry Bennetts with comfort to them-
selves, and to the few other people who trot about.
We learn with calmness that Arthur has also
secured “ George Liston and his pieces,” and
“ Frank Harvey’s pieces.” As we have been all
our lives too busy hunting ’possums to even hear
of these two last, we will pass on to the rumour
that Madame Modjeska is to visit Australia—in the
dim future. And a panting hemisphere having
been told that Frank Towers and Co. are at Bunda-
berg (Q.), we may say that Sydney Grundy has
taken the London Globe to produce the “ Glass of
Fashion,” tnat Solomon and Stephens’s next opera
Is to be called “Nell Gwynne,” aud (what is of
more Importance) that Ashton’s circus is at
Mudgee.
* * * *
Alice Rees takes a benefit at the Protes-
tant Hall this (Thursday) night. Vogrich, Halle-
well, and Kretschmann are to assist. The pro-
gramme and the abilities of the executants to do
it justice should All the house, irrespectively of
the occasion. Miss Bees is the sweetest of Aus-
tralian songsters. No others are even on the same
plane. We do not mince matters when criticising
artistes who invite criticism by appearing before
the public as cultivated expositors of the great
masters. Whether praise or blame has to bo ex-
pressed, it is done without favour in the one case,
or fear in the other. OUr opinion of the quality ot
Miss Rees’ voice was formed long ago. So far, we
have had no occasion to change it. If those who
believe as wc do, emphasise their faith by attend-
ing to-night, the young prima donna will have no
cause to complain.
* * * *
At the Royal, on Saturday night, “Pluck”
was produced before a packed house. The piece
bids fair to become popular. Bevis Marks (Mr.
Bland Holt) is a Hebrew financier possessing many
“ Christian” virtues. His adopted son, JacK Spring-
field (Mr. Dampier) is attached to Florence Tem-
pleton (Miss Mayor). They have known each other
from childhood. Then Stephen Clinton (Mr. Flem-
ming), the villain of the piece, Instils into her mind
the poison of jealousy. Ho is aided by an inter-
view, overheard by Florence, between Jack and
Ellen Maitland (Mrs. Leigh). Mrs. Maitland’s hus-
band is a stockbroker, and one of Jack’s friends.
Having to deprive the London Exchange of his so-
ciety a while, he places his wife and children under
Springfield’s care. Florence, observing the parting
between Jack and Mrs. Maitland, becomes uneasy.
Old Marks, mistaking the relationship existing
between his adopted son and the strange lady,
upbraids Jack. A general muddle follows, in
which Jack is cast off by his adopted father, has
his engagement ring returned by his sweetheart,
makes a speech, and retires, while Florence gives
her hand to Clinton. They are married, and about
to leave for their wedding trip, when it is dis-
covered that Clinton, who was bank manager for
Florence’s father, had been forging his employer’s
name. Then Jack appears, and so does one Mary
Keene. Mary was one who “ loved not wisely, but
too well.” Clinton was the betrayer of her young
affections, and had managed to make his wife be-
lieve that the young person’s ruin lay at Jack’s
door. When Florence discovered that her husband
was a thief and a seducer, she resolutely denies
him all marital rights, She Hies to her father (Mr.
Brown) for protection, and he, deciding to stand
by his child, gives his promising son-in-law in
charge. Mrs. Maitland had been left £50,000 by her
lather, one of those rich Anglo-Indians, the in-
crease of whose fortunes keeps pace with the
deterioration of their livers. To Bevis Marks the
money had been left, to be given to her if found
any time within twelve months. Failing this, the
whole of the “plunder” was to go to Florence
Templeton. Clinton knew this. It urged him to
his marriage, and to adopt means to get Mrs. Mait-
land out of the way. In this he was assisted by
Peter Keene, brother of the girl he had deserted.
Wc were rather disappointed in Peter. When he
appeared in the first act, a sodden, drunken, blear-
eyed loafer, vowing vengeance on the man who
betrayed Mary, we felt comfortable. But as
he condoned his sister’s disgrace for a slight
pour hoire, and even volunteered to wreck
a train to kill Mrs. Maitland for a lump
sum, our confidence in him collapsed. He
was not only a villain, but a dirty, frowsy,
malodorous villain. He did not know that his
employer, Clinton, was in the same train; but he
would have wrecked it all the same for the money.
Clinton escaped. So did Mrs. Maitland and her
ehild. Then Clinton returns to his father-in-law’s
house, has a tete-a-tete with Templeton, tells him
he intends to murder him and hide his body in the
safe —and keeps his word. But Peter Keene is
already in the safe, having been locked in by Tem-
pleton in mistake. Why the murderer did not knock
Keene also on the head is probably because the
authors, Messrs. Pettitt and Harris, wanted Peter
for future use. The body is disposed of; there is a
run on the bank owing to Clinton’s defalcations;
Bevis Marks appears, to support it with his money;
Keene infuriates the mob against him ; he is
roughly handled, and rescued by Jack Springfield,
who calms the depositors by telling them how
much we owe the Jews. The end ot it all is that,
just as Clinton is reaching for the £50,000 left his
wife —the twelve months having expired—Mrs.
Maitland appears; Clinton disappears, followed by-
Peter Keene, who shoots him; Jack Springfield
claims Florence ; the police, Peter; and the
curtain goes down on the triumph of virtue. We
have little space for the performers. The Peter
Keene of Mr. Jones stands first. It was good from
beginning to end—good in its conception, make-
up, and maudlin rascality. We cannot point out
how the Bevis Marks, Jack Springfield, and Stephen
Clinton of Messrs. Holt, Dampier, and Flemming
could be improved. Mr. Brown’s John Templeton
was an even performance. The Florence Temple-
ton and Ellen Maitland of Misses Mayor and Leigh
were creditably rendered, and the subordinate
characters well filled.
* * * *
We have received two letters which
deserve a notice, if only for the reason that they
arc written on one side of the paper only—a pleas-
ing experience in the receipt of professional
pothooks-and-hangers. One is from Mr. Glover (a
capital actor), of the Gaiety, whose name appears
to be Augustus. Mr. Glover says he is not going
away with Harry Simmons, being under written
contract to Bandmann. “Such a thing,” gays he
(as going), “ was never even hinted at.” He con-
cludes “No doubt my friend Harry will substan-
tiate ray statement!” No doubt. Our mistake;
but it is evident that someone must have hinted it
to us, though he didn’t to Augustus.
• • •
The next communication is from a lady,
Miss Ella Carrington, who says—but hear her:—
“ My speculation at the Academy of Music having
turned out a failure, I have to begin all over again,
and intend taking to the country towns again with
my ‘Stray Leaves’ Company. . . We are
very sorry for Ella, and for Taylor, and all these
nice people. The Academy has, so far, been a
very unlucky house. We wish the “ Stray Leaves,”
who are about to flutter forth, lots of luck; and
will give their route when we know it, or they do.
We see, too—while on departures—that Charley
Heywood, with his birds, and Lawless, are off to
Melbourne; and that the (apparently) immortal
Joe O’Brien manages their biz. for them. Hoy-
wood’s weak point lies in his pieces. It is only in
America men write such stuff as “ Dreams,” “The
Bird Charmer,” and the like. And there is no
reason, that we can see, why we should not finish
up by telling you that Sims’ Alhambra opera is to
be called the “White Queen” (we wonder who
has secured the “sole colonial right” of that?);
and that Bill Holloway has been giving the coal
delvers at Newcastle a taste of the “Lights,” a
fact which proves that William is still—and why
not ?—a liver.
Mr. M. R. Fonnby, who during the ab-
sence in Scotland, for the last two years, of Mr.
James Richmond, manager of the Port Jackson
Steamship Company, has acted in a manner most
satisfactory to the directors, and their employes,
and to the general public, as the locum teneus for
the gentleman named, and who has now, owing to
Mr. Richmond's return, retired from the position
in question, was on Monday night last presented
by the officers and crews of the company’s vessels
with a handsome testimonial, consisting- of a
valuable gold Waltham watch, suitably inscribed.
Tlie trouble in the Sydney Liedertafel,
which has resulted in the resignation of the presi-
dent, Sir Patrick Jennings, the vice-president, Mr.
Hugh George, the secretary, Mr. Giddy, and the
committee in a body, is due to trouble with the
conductor, Mr. Edwards, who, according to the
ideas of some of the members, is unnecessarily
brusque in his manner, and interfered unduly in
matters properly within the province of the com-
mittee. The meeting of performing members, the
other evening, was asked to endorse a resolution
submitted by the committee, to the effect that the
conductor be req uested to send in his resignation.
There were about forty members present, but only
twenty-two voted, ten for and twelve against the
motion. The office-bearers thereupon promptly
resigned, and it is likely that the entire body of
contributing members will have to take steps to
prevent the Liedertafel being utterly dissolved.
Some years ago, Frederick James Hickliug
and Mary Ware looked into each other’s eyes, dis-
covered their own images there, and thought
those images were ineffaceably stamped on the
retina of each. Then they loved and married.
Mary was a ward of the Supreme Court of Victoria,
and Fred something in a bank. She had an antenup-
tial settlement of £900 a year, and he the princely
income rich corporations allow their officers.
There is no greater incentive to virtuous passion
in the male than the possession of £900 per annum
by the female. The years went merrily by, each
leaving its pledge of affection, till five olive
branches graced the parent stems. Then Frederick
James found his marital affairs the subject of rude
comment in Western tap-rooms, and his wife’s
good name alluded to with a shrug and a wink.
So he brought his case before the Supreme Court,
and an attentive jury decided that Mary had been
both fast and loose. Then a decree nisi was en-
tered, and each left, dragging portions of the
shattered chain which, once of roses, had solidified
into unmalleable iron. The question how to dis-
pose of the £900 a year now came to the front.
Mr. Molcsworth considerately interpolated that
“it was not intended to apply for it all to be taken
from the respondent, and she might be allowed to
retain as much as would enable her to lead a
virtuous life in future.” The further question
will suggest itself to the reader—What is the
amount per annum on which a woman can live
virtuously? This is more puzzling than one of
Praed’s enigmas. Three thousand years’ experi-
ence has taught us that, when a woman desires to
be chaste, she will be so on nothing a year except
what she herself earns ; while the possession of
Sin bad's Valley of Diamonds could not keep
Egypt’s Cleopatra, England’s Elizabeth, Russia’s
Catherine, or Spain’s Isabella from wandering.
Wet,™’ “Rough on Corns.”— Ask for Wells’
“ Rough on Corns.” Quick relief, complete, per-
manent cure. Corns, warts, bunions. Muses,
Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents.
The Marriage of Marr.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Da. MAIIIt, of Eaglehawk (Vic.), was recently
committed for trial on a charge of shooting at a
woman who was supposed to bo his wife, but who
appears to have been really his housekeeper. He
was bailed out of prison on condition that he
should marry the woman. He went almost from
gaol to the altar, and married her, she being thus
precluded fro u giving evidence against him.”
“ A man that’s married is a man that’s
marred,”
Says Shakespeare. Let us reach the light
guitar;
We’re going to try particularly hard
To show the British public what we are!
Our lot has been most horribly ill-starred:
We’ve had to milk the goat aud chop the
wood,
While none suspected that we were a Bard.
The trouble is—we’ve not been under-
stood,
“A man’s that's married is a,man that’s
marred.”
Now, wc will make an effort superhuman
To show what difference is, in this regard,
Between the effects upon a man aud
woman.
A maid that’s married is a maid unmade
(May evil blight the future of that bar-
maid,
She sent us the wrong tap), aud if the jade
Is married to a Marr, she is a Mar-maid.
A maid that’s married may be made a mar
(We follow William, though with feet
that falter).
A male Marr toes the mark when chances
are,
Perchance, betwixt the altar aud the
halter.
A maid unmarried is a made old maid
(The beer is simply sour as cream of
tartar).
A Marr may wed a maid when he’s afraid
(We’ll see this through, or die a pallid
martyr).
A man that’s made to mate amaid he seeks
To shoot (Ah, Heaven! our mind begins
to flicker,
And demon-headed snakes with gill-bird
beaks
Enwrap us—quick, for Heaven’s sake,
quick, more liquor!)
If a maid dismayed is made (it’s getting
steeper j
We thought we could turn this out by
the yard)
To marry Marr, he (someone fetch a keeper
And hold us down—the fact is, we’ve
gone mard).


THE MERRY MEN OF MOULD .
THE SYDNEY UNDERTAKERS’ PICNIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A mad world, my masters!” You can
figure it out without Proctor—that, if one sex
would now vanish from the surface of the earth,
a hundred years would find our old ball a tenant-
less atom swinging through space. All the great
cities would be silent. And If the Christian idea
have any foundation, only the sheeted dead would
flit across the earth; and they only as shadows.
Into one common oblivion, the king and prelate,
the be-massed archbishop and the unshriven blas-
phemer, the man of pleasure and the devotee, the
brawling fool and the pale-faced Hunker—the
beauty, the hopes, and fears of our little world-
go alike.
• o •
But Nature is wealthier than wo are. All
flown what some of us have called a va e of tears,
beautiful brooks ripple, and it has been seen fit
that violets should rise and fall to the wavelet’s
kiss, and great trees rustle a long secret to us, as
we trudge our path. Tears enough. But, also,
smiles. Crosses at one end ; caps and bells at the
other. Our life comes between; and we have to
liveit, whether we will or no. Between the rattling
of the clods on the mother’s coffin, and the merry
wedding bell, comes all that gives colour to life-
And when wc are worn out, have done what we
could, and what we shouldn’t—when we have
missed opportunities, and failed, and then, again,
seized them and won—there is the quiet retreat.
“At the last,” says Dr. Combe, speaking of 4000
deaths ho had known, “ a man looks only for rest.
I have not seen one who was not willing to die."
To this wo may add the words of an old man who
was a saint—a pure-minded Christian and a
preacher. Two days before he died, he said to us:
“ Even if I had no hope, boy, in the great salvation
1 have preached, I would now willingly lie down
and bo at rest.” Away with your crape and your
dismnlness. If we live again, a funeral should be
si festival. If we don’t—what do we lose? The
dead have surcease of sorrow—they have the best
of It. Therefore, but let us say it in our own way,
in verse
Hail to the dead whoso days are over,
Hail to the dead whoso days arc done.
Quiet they lie beneath the clover,
Malden and young man, loved and lover.
While the old world spins around the sun.
Hall to the dead!
Hail to the dead; their land is freehold;
For their low houses they pay no rent.
The fattest of soils the dead own fee hold;
Fretting and toil is ours, but, behold.
Who but the dead are well content ?
Hail to the dead!
Hail to the dead, their thirst they’re slaking
With the strong red juice from the vine at
its root.
Down in tho land whore there is no waking,
No forgetting, and no forsaking,
While we toil hard for the sapless fruit.
Hail to the dead I
Husbands and wives in peace together,
There they lie with never a word;
Never a hitch in the marriage tether,
Never a storm through the stilly weather.
Above, long grass by the warm winds stirred-
Hail to tho dead I
* * *
We never could make out why the under-
taker should rig himself up in the trappings and
the suits of woe, for—
“ To every man upon this earth
Death con.cth soon or late.”
It is about the only thing that is certain, and tho
one thing wo wish to forget. Wo have been down
twice to tho very gates of Death, and know his
taco. Wo have scon several people die, and heard
thoir last words. One was a man of the purest
morals, but who had not followed, in matters of
faith, the dead and damned superstitions piled
up in catechisms by dolefully-learned idiots
of a by-gone age. Poor fellow ! His last
hours were tormented by the fears of a damna-
tion almost deserved by tho men who invented it.
Hear this, ye creed-mongers, who, knowing no-
thing, not even your own ignorance, yet torture us
in life and torment us in our last hours with your
miserable pretence to know tho purposes of God
himself—hear it, and wonder no more that men
are furious at your blasphemous pretentions I
Who are you, with your baubles, your mitres,
your fetishes, and your revenues, that wo should
reverence you or your handiwork? Is it not enough
that we endure you in life, but you must scatter
your vile conjectures abroad, and in fat-bellied
ease add a baseless horror to the departing
moments of the worthy trustful souls who look to
you for knowledge and light, only to get instead
tho vain imaginings of half-crazed dreamers long
since gone into tho oblivion from which they
should never have emerged? His wife and chil-
dren stood at tho foot of the bed, waiting for the
last. He was muttering something. Suddenly
he turned a horrid eye towards us. We leant over.
“ Hell-flre!” he whispered, and was gone. Another
was the confidant of people in trouble—one looked
to for religious consolation and advice. Twenty-
four hours of raving blasphemy finished a saintly
life. No attention need be paid to the last words
of dying people. Long before the last change
comes they are already In imagination living in
another world. What we call the real have become
shadows. The walls of the sick room are faraway.
There is music, and running streams, and un-
earthly splendours. “Wonders, boy,” said one
man, dying. And, to finish this strain, we know
nothing of death. We can dream in two minutes
what seems a life-time, and we don’t know that we
don't dream on.
“Are the dead dead indeed, whom we call dead ?”
• • •
Yes, dead enough. Buy why should
not the death-shops bo temples of beauty?
If death is but the Introduction to a better
state, let us act as if we believed It. If it is
but the entrance to a land where “all thlngs.are
forgot,” why pile on tho misery? We walk into an
undertaker's shop. Tho workshop is like the gate-
way to the Inferno. The doors are black; the
wails are black. Dusty scraps of crape are littered
over finished and half-finished coffins. The carpen-
ter's saw leans dolefully in the half-sawn plank;
the 6pfW-3. r D‘ e r hes drearily alongside. We
heave a sigh, and tho undertaker takes out a two-
toot rule. Wo give the altitude and girth of the
lamented deceased, and the coffin-man lugu-
briously notes it down on a board with
a flat pencil an inch thick. All the para-
phernalia surrounding our burials are dismal,
and needn’t be. In the great thoroughfare,
where men and women with life’s troubles heavy
enough upon them pass, there are great gaping
shop-doors with open coffins displayed. You pass
an obscure street corner, and two beery-eyed men
back a cart against the kerbings. A coffin is lum-
bered out, as If it were a sack of coals. It is
tumbled into the hall; the door slams—there is a
woman’s sob within, and |the ghouls rattle off In
their trap to the nearest beer-shop. And then,
again, why must the horses be black ? Why must
we crowd into a black mourning carriage, and
wear the blackest of black suits, and mop our eyes
with new pockethandkerchiefs that are stiff, only
to ride past a drifting populace who remove no
hat, and show no reverence for the passing cortege 1
Man—the pet child of the universe, the hub of
intelligence, a little lower than the good angels,
and a little higher than the rebels—smokes and
spits as usual. A few words are read at the grave,
a few tears shed, and we trot gaily away back to
forget. We call it respect for the dead when we
get cedar and lead If our neighbour did; and we
pile on the fllagreed frippery, and meaningless stars
and bars, and brass studs, and armorial bearings,
and carry our vanity down to astonish the very
worms. Wo call this respect for the dead, when
we flout the common sense of the living. For our
own part, we have no choice of our receptacle.
In the resurrection, it will be quite immaterial
whether we piece ourselves together, as thev’ll
have to do in the Wollongong cemetery, or rise
from beneath some gorgeous monument erected
by a grateful posterity. It will be all one; and for
the procession, as we shall never amass a quarter
million by selling shoddy cloth, or adulterating
provisions, or floating bogus companies, we look
for no following a mile long. Just carry us along
as they did Kendall—with half a dozen cabs that
had to turn back half way, because the occupants
couldn’t afford the fare tor the day. For he was
only a poet, and the hodman on the road toiled up
with his bricks as usual.
But the undertaker can be merry as well
as dismal. It Is not always the song 1 of the clown
In “ Hamlet.”
“ A pick, a shovel, and a spade,
For, and a winding sheet,
Oh a pit of clay for to be made
For such a guest is meet.”
If he carries a mournful front in his public dis-
plays, he certainly throws it off in his private ones.
Mould and worms and crape are forgotten for the
day, as we bowl away down in drags and ’busses
through the bright sunshine to Botany. There
the merry men of mould walk the velvet sward,
or lose foot-races by two socks’ length dragging
behind. The aspiring youth, feeling his way to a
business of ten corpses a day, leads the daughters
of the great firms to the mossy slopes; or, floating
through the labyrinthine mazes. M.C.’d by the
short but ornate representative of Woods an I Co.,
whispers of epidemics threatened, loose vaccination
laws, quarantine abolition, and the reviving pn a-
pecta of cholera now lulled by ihe sanatoria of
Cairo the grand. Cairo tb« narrow, Cairo the
cbQlsrio. And ail aicmml the pavilion, and around
the Maypole (so called from its erection in
October), are the hopeful accents of pus-
ties and typhoid germs; smallpox imminent,
and scarlet fever more promising than ever.
Out in the near horizon the unclassifiahle aurora
betokens Black Death and huge epidemic to the
scientific speculator, and deep conjecture as to the
effects on mortality of the magnetic disturbances
which neither a Russell nor a Tebbutt have yet
explained. We eat oysters and drink stout without
grace; and at Mr. Boots’s suggestion we adjourn
to the banqueting room and eat baked chicken
and blano mange. We nibble a pine-apple to the
Parliamentary toast of a Cropley, and nimbly sip
sherry to the ponderous responding of a Melville.
We toast “the Press” as the only live institution
of the age, and fail to catch the eloquent response
of the greatest journalist in the world. The Young
Australian Band spread around their luscious har-
mony. the wrong invitee opposite disgraces his
friend’s invitation by empting two bottles of wine
into himself, and one on the floor; the speeches
become wearisome, and the visitors vanish. We
are alone with the men of mould.
Heavy clouds come up in the west, and
the pavilion is wrapped in gloom. The young
people are off on the lawn or away through the
garden. There is a rumbling of thunder, and
through the open walls one sees the great black
clouds banking themselves over the far-off city.
We draw closer together at the south end. We
toast “The day we celebrate,” coupled with
destruction to cremation. We toast the “ Resump-
tion of City Burial,” coupled with the restitution
of the Necropolis, the setting aside of all parks
for funeral purposes, and the re-building of
abattoirs and re-construction of cow-sheds. We
speak with renewed hopes of the failure of our
sewage system and the total abolition of all
drainage whatever. The increased supply of half-
baked bricks, and the promise of damper walls
lend further promise to the trade, and when the
facts in the case of Woolloomooloo drainage
crop up, the fun is fast and furious.
We suggest longer hours for drapers, and
closer rooms for sewing girls. Twenty
pencils figure out the cheery results on the
tables of mortality. Then, to the imaginative eye,
the old Sydney shadows float around, and whisper
their congratulations. Deputations from the men
of 1310 come trooping through from under the
Town Hall; deputations from Wollongong bewail
their sad fate in being left exposed to the drift and
waves of the great Pacific, when they might as
well be under the control of local trustees, who
could leave fragments of them in the heart of the
city. And then, “ postponement to the judgment
day ” finishes our revels. Again Kirby’s spanking
drag; the merry song, without allusion to days
when , , ,
“ I compounded am with clay;
And the drive home through the darkening city.
The merrv nr n of mould have had their day. As
why should they not? We return to worms soon
enough; and they, as well as others, may now and
again forget that
“We are such stuff as dreams are made of, and
Our little life is rounded with a sleep.”
Sour stomach, bad breath, indigestion,
and headache casly cured by Hop Bitters.
It is a somewhat curious fact that vb
all the ancient apostles had the [power of *P“*
all languages correctly, a very large P*J o ' k en n00 ,
of the modern ones know how to spea»
whatever. Perhaps some of the Salvation na
Captains can explain this.
TO DR. GILCHRIST.
Sympathetic Stanzas. .
“ Dr. Gilchrist, the North Melbourne rnj
byterian minister, applied for leave ot awe
full pay, at the rate of £650 per annu ■ it-
Church committee, however, offeroa pun
taining the balance (£150) to pay toe stipe .
minister’s substitute. Dr. Gilchrlrt re* tbeff .
offer. A meeting of the congregation m
upon called to consider the matter,
several prominent members oondeninea
ness and mercenary conduct ot tneir
Herald Wire.
Why should you let go from y°ur clul ch
Three weekly pounds to pay anot n r.
E’en though three sovereigns is not
And 'twas to keep a holy brother •
This movement, Doctor, don t assist ,
Your blucher put down and resist u.
“ ’Tis easier for a camel to —.
(Ah, oft that text you’ve '
“ A needle’s eye glide cleanly throng
Than rich men go to heaven. .
And yet they say there is no we inert
But p’haps, Doc., you don’t want to go
Perchance the extra coin you need
To help the poor and lowly:
To, in Kilmarnock, sow the seen
Of all that’s good and holy. uce
It maun be: for nae man e er
When herrings are four score lor
And parritch, too, is awfu’ cheap-.
•And you must own, now, tis a
No! to"your resolution keep. . *
And hold out till you get thesiue
Don’t e’en with the new P ar *2 I l ]iW . «t*T re *
Lei him chew hymn-books, or cW»
The Bunyip, and incidental accompaniments. Sketched from memory by Jones,
after a solitary fishing excursion with no society save a keg of rum.
NOT AMISS.
Adolphus :—“ Ah! bai Jove, it’s often struck me— d’you know—that when a fellah
gets married—he’s mis-led!” ... ...
Louise :—“ Indeed —it’s much oftencr, I think, the girl is—mis-taken!
“Gimlet.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
John Johnson was a simple soul
With most prosaic mind; ’
One less poetic, on the whole.
You’d very seldom find.
Yet Nature played a cruel freak
In Johnny Johnson’s case,
By putting on him (so to speak)
A “ Hamlet’’-looking face.
The frowning brow, the classic nos«
Th’ expression of disdain ’
That marked (as every artist knows!
_The melancholy Dane.
Xt sight of lolly, bun, or cake.
Would Johnny’s eyeballs flash.
And then he looked —there’s no mistai,-
Just like Ophelia’s “ mash.” aKe -
So all his comrades at the school—
Yes, all, excepting one—
They made it quite the common rul«
To call him “ Hamlet’s” son.
This one who, ’mid the playful host
So differed from the rest.
Had always termed him “ Gimlet’s Ghn.» >. f
(And sniggered at the jest).* w “
When Johnson grew to he a man
(Like all the other boys),
This freak of Nature soon began
To shadow all his joys.
He had, you see, a tragic walk
(Like Irving) of his own,
And even In his simplest talk
Like thunder was his tone.
And as he stalked along the street,
The smallest servant “ gal ”
His pale poetic face would greet
With “ Here’s Horatio’s pal.”
He held a billet at a bank:
But there his fellow clerks
Commented on his locks so lank
With very rude remarks.
So, thinking ’twould be well to stop
Providing further scoff,
One day ho sought a barber’s shop,
And had them taken off.
It mattered not: that very eve,
As homeward Johnson went,
A stranger plucked him by the sleeve
(An “actor” kind of gent),
And softly said “ Excuse me, pray,
The liberty I take;
But one remark, in friendly way,
I’d x-eally like to make.
“ A likeness, strangely strong, you bear
To Hamlet, sir, and if
You’ll condescend to grow your hair,
One couldn’t tell the ‘ ditf.’
“ Your every feature seems to strike—
Keep stationary, please —
There! now you are exactly like
The painting by Macllse.
“ That frown upon your thoughtful brow
Is beautiful to see;
Methinks I hear you saying now,
‘ To be, or not to be.
Poor Johnson turned upon his heel,
Exclaiming “ ’Tisn’t worth
My while to live; I almost feel
I wasn’t meant for earth.
“ I’ve left off smoking after ‘biz,’
Because the fellows joke.
And say that, with my noble phiz,
It’s sacrilege to smoke.
“ Then, people often drop their hints
(Aside, with bated breath)
That one so like the Danish Prince
Should seek his early death.
“ I’m sure there is no other cove
Who’s circumstanced like 1;
I think I’ll try ray luck above—
J.J., prepare to die!”
Next morning, when the sun shone bright
In Johnny Johnson’s room.
His landlord found his body quite
A subject for the tomb.
He lay full length upon the bed,
A razor by his side;
While fearful gashes in his head
Showed reason why he died.
One eye was on the wash-hand stand,
Along with several toes:
While, tightly clutched in Johnson’s hand,
Was Johnson's classic nose.
A roll of paper near him lay,
Inscribed as “Johnson’s Vow”—
“ I've sworn that everyone shall say
I’m not like Hamlet now.”
*In the East End of London,
creation is commonly referred to as ‘ Gimlet _
hence the schoolboy’s jest. The author i*
paring a short pamphlet (300 pages) upon toe pro-
bable origin ot the term, and its appropriated*
to the soliloquising Prince—in so far that nut"
(as presented to us.by many leading bjstrions' in--
quently becomes a perfect "bore, this
volume will bo embellished with beautifully ei
cuted engravings of Henry Irving ana *>•
Holloway.


BRIEF MENTION.
The two thinnest men in Bathurst, a bank
and a solicitor, are matched to run a hundred
cle l We know a sub. of black police in N.
hnflensland who is a match for either of them in
Hunness. He is six feet two, weighs nine stone
m ir and has a leg-a gift to an emu-stuck In the
isaie of a number thirteen foot for all the world
like a hammer-headed pick.
The phrenologists have got hold of Burns’
fl nd discovered— cela va sans dire— that he
S horn criminal. The “ basilar phrenometncal
ingle” was very small, while the organ of de-
erructiveness was big enough for an alligator.
Progress in phrenology does not keep pace with
ingress in other things. Indeed, the “science
Fnn?ars to be falling into disrepute. Once on a
5 the pretensions of its votaries were so great
ihat there appeared a likelihood of a fundamental
change in our criminal procedure. Witnesses and
Juries were to be dispensed with, the accused's
head shaved, and the story of the “ bumps” trans-
lated into the vernacular by an expert. Unfortu-
nately, there is no greater chance of two phreno-
logists agreeing concerning the moral tendencies
°f a particular development, than of two theolo-
gians entertaining precisely similar views on the
apostolic succession.
A Chinaman was recently going over the
old Smithlield crossing of the Barron, and a nine-
feet alligator seized him by the leg of the trousers.
Had they been ordinary fashionable ten-button
trousers with patent roller suspenders, their owner
a lost Chinaman; but he simply pulled the top
string, knocked away the key brick as it were, and
the blue serge indispensables were left in the Jaws
of the assailant, while the assailed party struck
a bee-line for the highest available ground at the
rate of about 30 miles an hour. The disgusted
alligator retired to a secluded pool about a mile
uown the river, rhere he was shot by Meston
l| ireo weeks afterwards, and the lost trousers re-
covered, rolled up la a email bard ball by tbe
action of the stomach. Even the gastric Juice of
an alligator had failed to extract any nutriment
from blue serge pyjamas, or reduce them to the
requisite choye.
“You know not the hour you will be a
Bolam yourselves in this Court,” perorated the
strategic Madden in his final appeal to the Jury in
the divorce case. Tne eloquent doctor scarcely
scored there. The jury accepted the announce-
ment !with customary stolidity; but where it
went to after entering their capacious ears, there
was no after evidence to show. Wo are accustomed
to be told that we know not the hour in which
Death may sit down with us, and, notwithstanding
its knowledge of the science of averages, Human-
ity bows to the statement. But, unless Dr. Mad-
den’s Jury was a unique one, the members must
have instinctively rejected the implication of the
advocate. As a matter of the science of human
nature, it is established that a man never can
believe that he will be a Bolam until he actually
finds he is one. The doctor's proposition is not an
asset, and happily is not, of human fears; and unless
be possessed special knowledge aboutthat jury, he
demonstrated that he did not possess average
knowledge of one of the most important of our
modes of thought.
All the big wars of Graham Berry’s colony
do not coniine their terrors to the capital. The
observant eye can see hair flying even as far out
as the Mallee. Only the other day it went in tufts
at Murchison. “ Tak aff yer caubeen! ” yelled the
bellicose Linehan. “ Tak aff yer caubeen! ” yelled
the distinguished three star Walker. “Hanged if
I do!” asserted the iconoclastic Sheehan. It was
at a meeting of the Murchison shire council, and
the rebellious Sheehan thought he could ruminate
better over the heavy items of road-metalling the
crossings if he could keep the rim of his hat on his
nose. He swore he’d keep it there, and his brother
councillors swore they wouldn’t let him, and the
chairs creaked, and so did the chairman, and all
concerned pranced around the room—onlySheehan.
He sat there with the rim on his nose, and made his
two hands into fists in readiness for eventualities.
Eventualities came, and one, two, three, warriors
marched from the room,and then Sheehan marched,
A less sized hat tits Sheehan now, There’s no hair
between the skull and at.
Keast made a great effort to save himself
lately. Learning that he had a soul, he ran with it
to the United Methodists, and asked them to spread
themselves about, and lock their legs and hands
all round, so that the thing could not slip out into
the way of destruction. His brethren had an
anxious turn of it. They stood there for a long
while with their hands locked and their toes touch-
ing, and the Tom Fool with the soul prayed away
in the middle of the ring. At last he announced
himself saved—soul and all. Now, Keast was a
considerable nuisance before his salvation, but his
objectionable characteristics grew with grace.
The spirit of cheating waxes strong with success.
Having done the devil with regard to his own two
square inches of an invisible part, he sallied out
forthwith to do him with regard to whole acres of
the material. He offered himself especially on
behalf of newspaper men, and he exhorted the
brethren the other night to repeat for these out-
casts the spells and incantations that worked such
miracles in his own case. But leading brothers
demurred. They remembered that several news-
paper men owed them money, and they knew that
if they once saved them they would never get a
penny. So Henry Keast is at feud with the
brethren, and is striving to do all the spreading
about and locking of legs by himself.
David Buchanan once delivered a lecture
on the “ Wrongs of Ireland,” and as he was not so
well known then as he is no w, the hall was literally
packed with Paddies. The discourse was mighty
in its effect, and somewhat dynamity in its
character; and David, who wasn’t a millionaire at
the time, succeeded in making a considerable
“ rise.” On the following day, as he was on his
way to the City Bank, with a dropsical-looking
canvas bag in his hand, he was met by Dr. Lang.
The good old doctor, who had Just arisen from
perusing a report of the lecture in the morning
paper, was indignant at the back-sliding of his
countryman, and asked David what was his reason
for making such a disloyal exhibition of himself.
“ My reason!” exclaimed David, clinking the silver
in the big, “ why, raon, there’s my reason!”
If the bird that warbled to llic Melbourne
Herald the eeciQls of the jury-room m a recent
divorce ease be not a lineal decendant of the
slanderous cuckoo of the poet, a new reason for
crying “challenge” is added to the list of which
those interested in the verdict of twelve good
men are already mindful. It will be remembered
that J. C. Stewart, the solicitor, gave important
evidence in the cause of Bolam versus Bolam.
Besides being a solicitor, it is Mr. Stewart’s for-
tune —or misfortune—to be also an elder of the
Presbyterian Church. This merit, or demerit, la
intensified by his being a prominent elder. Now,
from the song that reached the Herald's ears, w©
distil the following positions:—Those members of
the Jury who were Presbyterians gave weight to
Mr. Stewart’s evidence, not qua evidence of Mr.
Stewart, but qua evidence of a spotless elder; and
those who believed Presbyterianism all humbug,
and elders in general tatooed mountebanks, depre-
cated Mr. Stewart’s evidence, not inasmuch as it
was the evidence of a witness, but inasmuch
as it was that of anunoommonly stupid function-
ary called an elder. It happened in the
Bolam case that they nearly tied. But an in-
ference dealing with the magic word “ challenge ”
springs from the positions. If a prisoner learns
that an elder is to kiss the book against him, will
he not act wisely in rejecting every Presbyteria n
on the panel? Will not the Crown Prosecutor
scrutinize with a similar intent ? And why shall it
be necessary to limit ourselves to shining lights in
the realm of Presbyterianism ? Will not the infer-
ence inpinge the panel wherever a saint sits down ?
The vista is rather an extensive one, and we believe
our friends, the lawyers, will not care to look too
long into it, for saints will not care to be witnesses
unless they can count on a measure of godliness
in the Jury-box; and if saints decline to kiss the
book, domestic troubles will seldom air themselves
in a law-court. Certainly, if Stewart had done
certain things, he might have broken a heart on
the quiet, but the ill-starred, hapless Bolams might
have escaped their crowning shame. The deduc-
tions from the warble of that bird are serious;
and. If ever we are charged with stealing whisky
from an elder, we’ll challenge every Presbyterian
on the panel. We will. It’s strange that Stewart
should be an elder. Uc is one of the hardest-headed
men in Australia. .
A Big Job.
SIR JACK (TO THE DAILY TELEGRAPH): “ YOU CAN’T DO IT. LET ME HAVE A TRY.”


The O’Donnell and Carr Boyd-Kimberley
explorers are all right. Mr. John Wilson, of Hill
Park, Marulan, had a wire from them on Monday,
dated from the Katherine.
“What will we do with our girls?’’ is a
question that has seri msly occupied the minds of
colonial legislators. But “ what shall we do with
our suburban land and estate agents?” Every
second man you meet anywhere round Sydney,
now Is In this business which has lately assumed
the form of a yawning commercial abyss that
threatens to engulph the whole male population
of the colony.
It is declared that the new English Judica-
ture Act, which, according to the lawyers in Parlia-
ment, was to make the excessive cost and delays
of the law things of the past, has enormously
increased both expense and delay. An English
paper, commenting on this, says it never expected
otherwise, as when lawyers are allowed to make
the laws which concern themselves, nothing good
could be expected. The scandal relative to delays
caused by Judges’ vacations is also attracting
attention. Mr. Fowler, member for Wolverhamp-
ton, referring to the rule of Court with reference
to holidays made by the Judges for their own con-
venience, said “it would be difficult to find a
parallel of such denial of justice in any other
country. The vacations whicn this rule proposed
to perpetuate were four in number. At Christ-
mas there were 20 days, at Easter 12 days, at
Whitsuntide 10 days, and the Long Vacation 85
days—in all 127 days out of the 365, or 18 weeks and
1 day during w iich her Majesty’s subjects were
denied justice while the Judges were drawing their
full remuneration. Did Ministers of the Crown
have 18 weeks holiday' in the year? It w as a state
of things whicn existed in no other profession, and
the public were called on to pay for it.” A Lon-
don paper comments:—“ Nor is it a state of things
that would be tolerated in any country, save one
where certain favoured classes are permitted to
make the laws that regulate their own professions.
Why an outcry would be raised if a body of work-
men not only left a large number of jobs unfinished,
but insisted upon receiving full wages whilst taking
their holidays ! Yet this is precisely what the
Judgesdo; and that by reason of rules and regula-
tions which they themselves framed! How they
wouid howl and bellow from the bench at any
trades-unionist accused of leaving his work
unfinished and going upon his holiday, even with
the sanction of his trade society !”
A splendid new line of cognac has just
been imported, for the first time to these co'onies,
by Messrs. De Lissa and Phillips, of Barrack-street.
The cognac is Emile Vernets celebrated “Bell”
brand, which has become so popular over the
Continent, and likewise in England and the States.
One of the features of the “Bell” brand cognac is
its undisputed great age, and in addition it pos-
sesses a softness and an aroma, which other manu-
facturers have failed to impart to their pro-
ductions. In Sydney, though the first importa-
tions are not here more than a few months, the
demand has been so great as to severely'strain the
means of supply; but cable communication has
removed the difficulty, and supplies sufficient for
all requirements are to hand.*
Mb. DeCourct Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also. Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 136 Pltt-street, Sydney.
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Department undertaken. Titles a
speciality.—Ad vt.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 8th October, !«*»•
TENDERS FOR WOODEN BUILDINGS.
TENDERS are invited for the Erectioni of
Wooden Buildings for Public School r
poses, at Peat’s Ferry Road, near Hornsby. fflg
Plans and Specifications may be seen, ana 10
of tender obtained, at the office of the Departm
of Public Instruction, Sydney. .
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Wooden nu
mgs. Peat’s Ferry Road Public School,
lodged with the Acting Under-Secretary, DfP
meut of Public Instruction, at or before 10 o c
a.m. on Wednesday, the 31st October, 1883. , h .
The Minister does not bind himself to accept
lowest or any lender. REID-
NARRABRI RACES.
[BY NEW WARIOR.]
These races came off on 'Wednesday and Thursday
of last week, under the management of a right
energetic set of officials, with Messrs. W. F. Bu-
chanan and Charles Bather as President and Vice
respectively, the secretaryship and other offices
being well filled. I had had comfortable quarters
engaged for me at the “Greyhound,” a popular
hostelry presided over by host Gordon. The trip
from Newcastle to Scone and Murrurundi shows
the country on both sides of the line in splendid
order, well-grassed and watered, the result of a
plenteous supply of rain. But between these towns
and Narrabri the absence of grass tells its own tale,
and the dwellers for miles round are sorely in need
of a downpour.
Although many regulars were kept away by
bad times, and some by shearing operations, the
meeting was a big success; the attendance good
on both days, and notably so on the second, when
I was told it quite equalled those of previous
years. Among the familiar forms of good and
true district men, besides the President and Vice,
were noticeable Messrs. E. Fletcher, of Boolcarrol;
A. Benson, of Caidmurray; Mosely, of Tibberenah;
A. Copeman, of Tarrlaro; A. Cofless, of Walgett,
with many more. Ladies did not patronise the
grandstand enclosure, and the structure itself is
only of u temporary and primitive character; but
the district matrons and belles in good round
numbers wore on the course, with attendant
cavaliers, and lent a charm to what would other-
wise have been a burnt-up and cheerless state of
things, without a redeeming feature. Sydney sent
a considerable share of visitors—a motley crew,
indeed: and I’ve seldom seen a, worse crowd col-
lected. The presence of a peripatetic member or
two of the Sydney D. division accounted for an
almost total absence of rowdyism. The course
was as hard as it could well bo, and bare as a rock,
on the running ground; but, notwithstanding this
great drawback, the racing in the majority of
cases was of the best description, and 1 have
seldom seen at a country town better handicaps
and more exciting struggles, the finishes for the two
big events and Forced Handicap being well worth
.going a long way to see. The “Books,” who
mustered, as is their wont, in great force, had a
great time of it, the favourites in most cases
being beaten, and I don't know of one backer who
came out a winner. To the members of com-
mittee, with their obliging V.P. and secretaries,
I tender my best thanks—trusting next year to
visit them again and find the racing under more
prosperous conditions of season. I shall also be
forgiven if I express a hope that the Club will be
able to give the Press a little accommodation for
writing on the stand, for which I'm sure we shall
all be grateful, as well as for a little more infor-
mation about weights and colours on the race
cards.
On the first day the ball was set rolling with
the Maiden Plate, and afield of five sported their
colours, a strong favourite being made of Golds-
brough’s daughter, Souvenir, with a shade of odds
on her, while a grey son of the unbeaten Lecturer,
named Lecture came in for a deal of support at
3tol, nothing else being much fancied. Tncotrin
and Blazes led alternately for three parts of the
journey, when Lecture assumed the lead and
showed the way into the straight. Here the favour-
ite came out, and heading the grey at the distance
won with a trifle in hand by a length. Blazes was
third and Tricotrin last. A deal of unpleasant
talk was indulged in over the riding of Lecture,
and it certainly seemed to me that the jockey
committed an error of judgement, and did not
sufliciently persever with his nag in the last three
hunt) red yards.
The Novel Race, with only three starters, caused
a deal of excitement, notwithstanding that it
looked a guinea to a gooseberry on Reform. The
knowing ones were not slow to get their money
on; but when the supposed owner laid 3 to 1
against him, while the public were laying those
odds “on.” the wise ones shook their heads, and
many were not slow to rush on to Weatherbound,
who was con idered the next best, and then in-
stalled favourite. The race itself needs no telling
of, as Reform, after patiently waiting behind, ran
to the front on entering the straight, and won in a
walk by a couple of lengths. Even then there
were those who gave out their opinion that Reform
wouldn't draw his weight; but, as in the other
ease, they were fairly at fault, and the supposed
“stiff ’un" drew the beam to the satisfaction of
his backers.
There wasn’t much to choose from in the matter
of favouritism between Faust and Epicure in the
Town Plate, but the former had slightly the call.
He was very sore, and it was doubtful if the hard
going would not interfere and completely upset
his chance. Nap came in for a lot of support, but
he appeared to fret before the start, and L didn’t
fancy his chance in consequence, albeit he was said
to have run no less than three trials under “10,”
carrying a stone overweight. Gladiator had a lot
of friends, and the execution of a small
commission for his absent owner bad a deal
to do in strengthening his position. The
start was very much delayed, but the race
doesn’t need much description, as Hazard
led all the way, and finally won a great race
from Faust, who came out at the turn, by a short
head. Daughter of the Regiment, who appeared
to come rather late, was a good third; Darriwell
fourth, and Flying Column last. Faust, as 1 ex-
pected, pulled iip very lame; and I think he needs
a short spell. Taken altogether, it was one of (if
not the) best races I have seen at a country meet-
ing, and at the distance it was almost a “ toss up ”
among four, while the final struggle was a treat to
served up something very warm in The
Witch for the Flutter, with odds of 3 and 3 to 1 on
her, but with four starters she disgraced herself
and finished last, Affection beating Stranger by a
neck after a desperate set-to from the corner.
The fielders had all the worst of it in the Railway
Handicap; and in a field of six, 6 and 7 to 4 were
freely laid on Erin. The talent made no mistake
with this move, as the favourite watched his field
patiently until they entered the straight, when he
went in command, and won easily by a length from
Darriwell, who beat Blazes by a dozen lengttis for
second money.
After Reform had walked over in the Prince of
Wales Stakes on the second day, a field of live
saddled up for the piece dc resistance of the meet-
ing, the N.J.C. Handicap—Hazard, after his first
day’s win, being looked on as rather “good goods,”
notwithstanding that he staked himself slightly;
and after being knocked about like a shuttlecock
in the betting, finally left the paddock showing
no sign of his mishap, a firm luvourite at 6 to 4.
Faust’s owner was afraid to run him, and Erin was
next in demand at 3 to 1, and received a goodly
amount of support at that figure; while 4 to 1 was
forthcoming about Daughter of the Regiment, and
a point longer obtainable about Nap. The start
was not a good one, and Hazard, taking up the
running, led all the way to the distance, where
he was challenged by Nap and Erin, and a grand
race home resulted in a half-length win for the
little thought of Nap, Hazard beating Erin (who
was well ridden by English) a neck for second.
Daughter of the Regiment was a bad fourth, and
Epicure a long last. Erin was weighed in and
given second place, although Hazard was fairly
entitled to the position. There was a deal of delay
before weighing in a second, and once the rider of
Daughter of the Regiment was culled on to dis-
mount; but although he stuck out that he finished
next the winner, he was finally, and not without a
lot of delay, dismissed, and the places ultimately
settled on as I have stated. There was, to say the
least, a deal of contusion over the affair, and it can
hardly be otherwise it j udges will allow half a dozen
persons to occupythe box with them, as was the case
all through the meeting. The judge in future
will do well to remedy the evil. A protest against
the winner for crossing was dismissed. The rider
of the favourite lost a stirrup-iron a mile from
home, which doubtless cost him the race, and when
he was finally called on, at the distance, he com-
pounded in a most unmistakeable manner.
The uncertain Hawthoruden, in a field of five,
was made a big favourite of for the Ladies’ Purse,
with odds of 3 to 1 on him; but he cut up the great
duffer that he Is, and Druid, a compact son of
Hunter, led for the last three furlongs, and won as
he liked by two lengths from Lecture, who got
very badly away, the favourite being third.
Nap’s win in the big race caused him to be in-
stalled favourite for the Publicans’ Purse at 6 to 4,
while 3 to 1 was the best offer against Darriwell
and Essex. Darriwell cut out the work from the
time the flag fell, and half a mile from home held
such a commanding lead that it looked all over,
bar shouting; but he tired at the home turn, where
Essex came out, and, cutting the leader down in a
few strides, won rather easily by three lengths, the
favourite, who never got to the front, being
beaten by a length for second place; Reform was a
bad fourth.
The Forced Handicap, which some country
meetings will never do without, wound up the
day’s doings, and was won after a good race by
Darriwell.
There was noticeable all through the meeting an
utter disregard for punctuality in running off the
various races, aud this, although apparently a
small item, should be more strictly observed.
Champagne flowed at the general settling, which
took place at Shanahan’s Hotel in the evening,
Mr. W. F. Buchanan being in the chair, and the
following prizes were paid over:—Mr. Malone £140,
Mr. Lawler £95, Mr. F. Reynolds £59, Mr. Darcy £60,
Mr. James Mayo £45, Mr. J. C. Lay cock £55, Mr.
Whitten £39, Mr. J. Thompson £i8, and Mr John
Mayo £15. There were several smaller sums paid
over, making up a total of £560.
Latest Sporting,
Mu. R, Waddy, so we read, has resigned the Mas-
tership of the Northern Hunt Club hounds; as we
hoard was probable a week or two back. The club
has not “gone on and prospered,” as was hoped
from its rosv start; there having been a decadence,
under Mr. Waddy’s Mastership, from two days a
week to the simple Saturday afternoon. We have
heard whispers that thorough reorganisation is
necessary. 11 will be a pity to let the club die out;
for any such organisation is worth keeping alive
that can send three members and their horses to
keep well together, without mistake, on a course
like that they negotiated at Wallsend. As Mr.
John Bales, jun., has just returned to the colony,
it wili be well it his friends induce him to take the
position of Master over again.
Late days have brought us some accessions to
our horse ranks of various grades, as “ Clydesdale ”
reports having inspected the “ Percheron ” horse
lately brought to Melbourne, and thence here on
his way to the Barwon. This animal our live stock
contributor will describe at length shortly, as
also the new comers by the Essex, which are not
in port at the time of writing. All we know of
them is that one is a heavy draught, come to take
the place of the lost “Shire horse.” Marvel; and
to show how quickly such losses can be remedied
in these days of cablegrams, it may be told that in
six days after the death of Marvel was known in
Sydney, a successor to him had been shipped on
board the Essex in London.
Mr. W. C. Freeman’s hr h Crowned Head, by
Emperor from Queen’s Head, has been sold for
38gs., and Mr. Ciibborn disposed of the following
at Fennelly’s bazzar on Monday last:—Combadello,
2 yrs., by Julian jAvenel—Scraps, Mr. Cosgrove,
junr., 54gs.; Eton Boy, 3 yrs., by Julian Avenel—
Florence, Mr. E. M. Betts, 33gs.; the hurdle racer
Cygnet, Mr. A. Williams, Bogs.; b g The Fifer,
aged, by The Drummer—Atalanta, Mr. A. Frater,
66gs.; and to the same purchaser the b g The Jay,
3 yrs., by Captivator—Juanita, for 87gs.
fn a day or two the last of our equine represen-
tatives that are to do battle for N.S.W. atFleining-
ton will have taken their departure, and we shall
be represented by a goodly crowd. Monaghan
travelled overland on Saturday, with Le Grand
and Sardonyx; Mr. Forrester took Charming, Bon
Bon, and Gipsy’s Warning on Monday, completing
the lot from Warwick Farm. Tom Brown went
the same day with Garfield, Lord Exeter, and
Stockdale; while I understand that Lamond, Law-
son, Alsopp, Fennelly, and Raynor are all booked
to leave by this Saturday with their respective
strings.
The scratching of Warwick for all his V.R.C.
engagements, on Monday last, didn’t occasion any
surprise, as the stable made no secret that he was
queer, and not likely to carry silk at Fiemington.
We didn’t hear many complaints at the settling
rooms on Monday evening over the absence of
backers, and I fancy the squaring up was satisfac-
tory ; but there wasn’t the usual crowd of inter-
ested persons about, and to the uninitiated it
didn’t appear that anything out of the common
was going on. The prizes won at the late Sydney
Turf Club meeting were handed over at the office
and made up the respectable total of £880, princi-
pally as follows:—Mr. A. F. Smart, £395; Mr. W.
Forrester, £3*5; Mr. D. Nicholson, £85 ; Mr. W.
Kelso, £10; Hon. J. White, £50; Mr. Pidcock, £5);
a id Mr. E. H. Weston £15. It is a pity to chronicle
heavy loss on Saturday's races, for the club is just
the sort of confederation we need here; ana we
hope to see a big entry for the Anniversary Han-
dicap, which, from this out, will be as much looked
forward to on the 36th January as other and more
pretentious races of other clubs on other dates.
Horse owners should help the M.T.C. along.
At the sale of Messrs. Robertson and Wagner’s
horses in Melbourne, on Monday, St. Lawrence
was passed in, having failed to reach his reserve of
500gs. Great Western was sold to Mr. Reid, of
South Australia, tor lOOgs.; Prince Regent went to
Mr. Connor for90gs.: Mr. A. F.Sullivan purchased
Welcome Jack for 300gs.; and Mr. H. Connelly
became the possessor of Ontaria for 750gs. Other
lots were offered, but nothing was sold.
In consequence of too much pressure at the
eleventh hour, the second article of “Clydes-
dale’s ” series on Stud Farms must unavoidably
stand over till our next.
MELBOURNE HUNT CLUB RACES.
Saturday, Oct. 6.
Hurdle Race: Yarree, 10.10 (Battye), 1; Pember-
ley, 9.9 (Casey), 3. Only two got round.
Selling Race: Halifax, 1.
Hunt Club Cup, about 3><j miles: Daylight, 10.7
(Mr. G. Watson), 1; Recovery, 11.6, 3; Banker, HU,
3. Won easily.
Flying Stakes: Sandal, 1; Bonne Fortune, 3;
Selkirk, 3.
Steeplechase, 3 miles: Vaulter, 11.13 (Scobie*,
1: Squire. 10.1, 3; Blackthorn. 13.10, 3.
Handicap Flat Race, about 1 mile: Phantom,
8.13,1; Squireen, 8.10, 3; Liddington, 8.10, 3.
MUSWELLBROOK RACES.
SECOUND DAY (MONDAY).
The following are the results:—
Town Plate: Myra, 1; Lecture. 3; Souvenir, 3.
Myra won the run-off of a dead heat with Lecture.
Novel Race: Mazeppa,!; Commodore, 2; Upper
Hunter, 3.
Grand Handicap: Erin, 1; Epicure, 3; Hesita-
tion, 3.
Ladies' Mile : Souvenir. 1; Affection, 3.
Forced Handicap; Epicure, 1.
CLARENCE RIVER JOCKEY CLUB.
Nominations for races to be held on November 9.
Hurdles ; Prince Leopold, Faust, Rocket,
Quicksilver, Prince, Neddie.
Gold Challenge Cup: Acacia, Glengarry, The
Count, Ferryman.
Profbssionel Handicap: Acacia, Glengarry,
The Cornet, Ferryman, Shamrock, Aimec, Young
Australia.
Brilliant Handicap : Acacia, Prince Leopold,
Glengarry, Countess, Ferryman, . Count, Lady
Isabel, Shamrock.
ADELAIDE HUNT CLUB RACES.
Saturday, Oct. 6.
Maiden Steeple: Scout, 1. Hurdles: Lady Car-
rington. Hunt Cup: Kildare, 1. Flat Race; Kohi-
noor, 1. Drag Cup : Peter, 1. Grand National
Handicap: Joker, 1.
THE BETTING MARKET.
Since our last, operations amongst the metalli-
cians have not been of very great importance inas-
much as changes are concerned; and save that
Archie has been backed for all the available money
to win the V.R.C. Derby, up to 5 to 4, nothing of a
sensational character has been done. Still, a deal
of solid betting has been got through, and It may
be summed up thus on:—
The Caulfield Guineas
Very little has been got through, and after taking
100’s to 30 about Delusion, she has settled into the
position of favourite at 4 to 1, the best offer to
money. Ike is quoted at “ fives,” and St. Lawrence
at a point longer.
The Caulfield Cup
Tells of no change, and figures remain as quoted.
100 to 7 v. Yately. 100 to 6 v. Footstep. 100 to 5 y.
Calma. Later. Calma has been backed to win
all the available money up to 100 s to 7.
The V.R.C. Derby
has caused the only sensation of the week, Archie
hardening daily, and after all the m-ney at 6 to 4
had been exhausted, 5 to 4 was accepted; and
although that price is still on offer, very little is to
be obtained. The early part of the week saw 6 to
1 bar one offered, but on Monday night Off Colour
was the recipient of a good deal of favour; and
notwithstanding that he is now quoted at 3 to 1, we
fancy the market is only being “rigged,” and that
he will retire to a very backward position before
long. Martini-Henry remains at 5 to 1 offered,
without any takers, and 10 to 1 can be had bar three
The Melbourne Cup
shows no material alteration, save that Santa Claus
has been backed for a lot of money up to 100’s to
6, and the principal favourites are as follow: —100's
to 8 First Den on; 100’s to 7 each v Despot, Nicholas,
and Le Grand; 100’s to 6 Santa Claus, and 100’s to
5 Calma. For the
Maribyrnong Plate
Garfield has come in for such a large of
support that he is now at the top of the tree at 6 to
1, while Second King comes next at “sevens.” 10
to 1 is offered and taken about Helene; 100’s to 8 is
what Bohemian, King’s Own, and Buckingham are
quoted at : while Bargo, since his running on
Saturday last, has been well backed up to 100's to
6, which tells of all actual business done.
Melbourne, Wednesday.
The following are the latest scratchings for the
Caulfield Cup Bryan O’Lynn, Boniface, Red-
bank, Loiter, Vcrnet, Too-Too, Dunstan, Wizard,
Gloucester. Forest King, Middlemarch, Welcome
Jack. For the Melbourne Cup: Welcome Jack,
Forest King. Middlemarch. For the Derby: Mid-
dlemarcb, Warwick. Squireen was scratched for
the Toorak Handicap as soon as the weights ap-
peared. Ontario and Songster have been scratched
for the Hurdle Race.
The sensational horse in Melbourne Cup betting-
just now is Santa Claus, who, on Saturday morn-
ing, with Power up in heavy saddle, galloped once
round the outside track at Fiemington, in 2 min.
37J£ sec. On Saturday night, a further commission
was thrown into the market for the son of Glorious,
who advanced to hundreds to live, and has to-day-
become second favourite at 100 to 7.
The only change of any note in Caulfield Cup
betting is the acceptance of £10,000 to £400 about
Calma. It is now stated that this race, and not the
Melbourne Cup, is what he is intended lor, and
that he is backed tor the latter race by mistake of
the commissioner. It is only natural that after
Sandal’s easy victory at the Melbourne Hunt
Club meeting, last Saturday, her stable com-
panion, Helene, should advance in favour for
the Maribyrnong Plate, and it is now hard
to get 100 to 13 about her, at which price
Garfield also meets with plenty of supporters,
second King has receded a point, and 100 to 15 is
freely offered. King’s Own was introduced into
the market 1 ist night, aud was backed to win £5000,
leaving off at 100 to 6. Archie is firm for the Derby
at 5 to 4: but, on Saturday, Off Colour returned to
his old price of 4 to 1, at which figure he finds many
friends. Since my last telegram the arrivals from
Sydney have been Navigator, Olga, Waxlight,
Cunnamulla, Pell Mell, Parapluie, Archie,
Delusion, Dizzy, Drummer, Belmont, Bohe-
mian, Sardonyx, and Le Grand, while Mr.
Filgate, junior., has brought from Adelaide
Lavington, who is engaged in the Foal Stakes
and Maribyrnong Plate, for the latter of which
his half sister Lavinia ran a dead heat with Wel-
come Jack in 1880. None of the Sydney horses
have done work of any note since their arrival.
The general impression among the touts is that
Navigator’s forelegs look queer. Archie’s appear-
ance has created a most favourable impression.
There has been no betting on the Caulfield Foal
Stakes: but, for the Guineas, Delusion and St.
Lawrence have met with plenty of support at 5 to
1 each, and may be quoted as favourites. My
fancy is for St. Lawrence, with Hurricane, who
has been doing grand work at Fiemington, and
Sardius to give bim most trouble, while Sandal
looks something like a moral for the Foal Stakes.
Mr. de Mestre's colt by Piscator, out of Zephyr,
has been called Sirocco.
Robert the Devil and Favour have been scratched
for the Caulfield Cup, and The Israelite and King
Sol tor the Toorak Handicap.
GREAT EXPECTORATIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Permit me (a lady writes to the S M .
“ the favour of space to protest against the
ing habit of expectoration, which, I rearet u? 1181 '
has become so common In our midst. Is anv n,
place free from the danger of this pollution »
walk in even our most fashionable thoron-rh'/a
requires adroit steering, in order to avoid tki kT?
storm which falls to right and to left of ™,,
have had valuable clothing spat unon 1
lately, walking behind a creature whoni V
call a man, I had suddenly to retreat backward,
he calmly ejected over his shoulder and narprm-? 8
missed my face.” We don’t happen to be Slarui 7
and, consequently, this theme flies right ovp7
heads; but, to oblige the ladies, here goes f ° Ur
1 hold possession of the streets
Of Melbourne or of Sydney,
And every Christian male I meet’s
Precisely of my kidney.
I chew tobacco by the pound—
It suits my inclination—
And void upon the public round
A black expectoration.
I go in shining broadcloth coat
To some far-off elect’rate,
And, angling for the Farmer’s vote
Wild promises expect’rate;
Then sit in Parliament to seek
The welfare of the nation.
And store tobaceo in my cheek
For street expectoration.
I’ve rings upon ray lily hands
(Hands worthy of Omphale),
1 hold a billet in the Lauds,
And seek my office daily;
All day I do my very best
To fill my arduous station.
Then take a spell, and, like the rest,
Go for expectoration.
I write long letters to the Shroud.;
Full many a lingual caper
I cut in what has been allowed
To be a “ useful ” paper.
My body’s shrunken, and my cheek
Is simply consternation;
And though my heart’s true, I’m too weak
For much expectoration.
I’m what the moderns call a dude,
A mould of calf’s-head jelly;
I know no such beatitude
As when I’m told how well 1
Can group myself upon the Block,
’Mid public approbation,
Or timid creatures’ feelings shock
With sly expectoration.
I preach the gospel of “ the Lamb ”
To quite superior people,
And put on much {esthetic jam
(My church has no vile steeple);
I’m loved by many a High-Church maid,
Although at Confirmation
I’ve quite unnerved them, I’m afraid,
With sharp expectoration.
I sit upon the Bench, and wear
A wig, and chuck the Law round;
And, though I can’t well spit in there,
I turn within my jaw round
A plug of Raven, so that when
I’ve spooned out condemnation,
I have my cherished joys again—
Lunch—and expectoration.
1 smoke all day upon the tram.
And, though it hurts the ladies,
I’m not the sort to care a d ,
I keep it up like Hades;
And chew and spit till, ere they win
Their longed-for destination,
The very car is swimming in
My great expectoration.
1 drive a van or baker’s cart,
And earn enough to rig me
In high-heeled boots and trousers smart,
In which you oft may twig me
Stand jostling such as may pass by,
’Neat h dim illumination
Of lamps, and aiming for each eye
My straight expectoration.
I come from Pyrmont, and can take
Wild flights of art—none bolder;
If you're not doubly wide-awake,
1 wing you o’er my shoulder.
1 note your general build and pace,
Then, with deliberation.
Pink you at t wo yards in the face
With my expectoration.
I’m from the country, and I gape
On lots of Satan’s dark aids—
Delilahs of delicious shape
That flit past lighted Arcades.
1 came to see my money won
(I’m in a Consultation),
And darken gas and moon and suu
With my expectoration.
I’m very stylish, being a “ book,’
My togs are such as “ books’ ” arc.
1 have a rather knowing look ,
(Yon know what most books’ looks 81 e "
1 come the toff, and say “ How do ?
And all such affectation;
And you can wager, I’m afciv
At sheer expectoration.
I am, as anyone can see,
A back-block Missionary;
No city vice can tumble me
As pits might the unwary.
I’ve spent my days in worthy deeds
Of Heathen reformation; .
I’ve taught the Black to teel our oreea=
And our—expectoration.
I am the Public of this land,
Built after my Creator;
A drinker and a swearer, and
A great expectorator.
If “ Horsetrailyer” is not as great
As any other nation,
She can, at least, expect to rate
High at expect-to-ration.


FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Herr Fischer has discovered a process
hich allows caffeine and the obromine to be ex-
acted from xanthine, thus conferring on the
'iiblic the advantage of being able to obtain tea
' coffee from guano. Wo shall, therefore,
,*oon have a C.M.G. taking the chair at a guano
meeting, under the auspices of the Y.M.C.A....
It is alleged, on the authority of a Queanbeyan
paper, that “ the animal that cannot say five words
without an oath is a pure and simple beast, not fit
for the society of any save such as he himself is.”
tVe know an ox-encourager up South who can
squeeze nine oaths into five words. But he is a
compound beast... The railway men want two
breaks a day: the Commissioner pleads for one.
But why not three ?
Break, break, break,
Thrice in eight hours, say we:
In the morning one, at midday one.
And one for the afternoon tea.
— Francis Garner’s sheep took it into their heads
to lamb onla squatter’s station, near Gundagai, and
couldn’t cover the legal six miles a day. Francis
was fined £3110s. for his dock’s laziness. “ Is this
the law ?” said Shylock once upon a time... .There
is an epidemic of divorce. Anothe; sensational
case is on the carpet. The part ies belong to the
inner circle of refinement, and religious people are
looking forward with impatience for the evidence,
—The Gympie Times states that the River Mary
meanders in places through stepping-stones con-
sisting of the decomposing carcases of bullocks.
Gympie water-supply comes from the Mary. ..
Members of the Government in West Australia
wear, or are supposed to wear, a gorgeous uni-
form. Whaf a figure poor little plethoric Secretary
O’Grady Lefroy cut in his harlequin-like toggery I ;
...UpBraidwoodway, the “sarpents” have taken to
snaking young opussums out of their mothers’ |
pouches. We shall always be glad to receive com-
munications from the man who discovered this... i
Dumas fils proposes that illegitimate children re-
ceive their father’s name and one franc a day from
the old man. Inability to pay to be met with five
years’ imprisonment. A girl falsely accusing a
man of being her child’s father to be transported
for life. The latter suggestion, if adopted in Aus-
tralia, would interfere with a thriving industry...
Jl fourteen year old son of Mr. W. Macansh, of
Garangula, was found on the road nearMurrum-
hurrah with his neck broken. Fell from a horse.
....It is stated that the Nineteenth Century is
translated into Urdu at Lucknow, and widely
circulated throughout the north-west of India.
There is now hope of portions of a certain Sydney
paper being translated into comprehensible Eng-
lish, and having an increased circulation through
the medium of our local butchers — The Bega
agent for the Shroud is a Mr. Braine, and it is his
proud boast that he is the only brain that has any
connection with the paper.. .The undertakers’
assistants in Sydney are agitating to stop Sunday
burials. They are now talking about getting up a
petition to do away with Saturday deaths —
A local daily, to console the inhabitants for the loss
of the Meat Preserving Works at Lake's Creek,
urges them to procure a photo, of it immediately.
There is great rejoicing in Rockhampton goat
circles, as they have at last secured a gallant
defender in the person of the mighty editor of the
D.N. Argus. He is now looked upon as the Par-
nell of the goat tribe... Now that the eight hours’
celebration is passed, the 14 and 15 honrs’ men think
they should have a celebration of their own. Their
idea is thoroughly supported by the traffic men on
a scetioH uot 100 miles from Wagga • • ■ Now, when
a Melbourne man visits another, be is invariably
saluted by the question, “Are you a brother
Mason ? ” If the visitor answers iu the affirmative,
the visitee barricades the front door, and orders
his wife and servant into the cellar, while he lifts
down the family gun.
* * *
The ConsettlronCo., in Durham, England,
holds large coal-mines, and makes iron and ship
plates. In the past ten years it has earned
£1,330,000 as profits, and out of that it has paid to
i its shareholders dividends that have range 1 from
ten per cent, per annum to, in one year, sixty per
cent. For the year ended June last it paid a divi-
dend of £1 7s. 6d. on each share, the latter having
I £710s. paid up.
| In connection with the sentence imposed
; upon Messrs. Foote and Ramsay, convicted of
! “blasphemy,” the Rev. W. Sharman, Unitarian
minister of Plymouth, deliberately resigned his
pulpit in order to work unreservedly for the
better enlightenment of the public generally with
respect to the principles really involved. The
church was tilled to overflowing to hear Mr. bbar-
man’s formal announcement, part of which was
couched in terms which, if employed in fettered
New South Wales instead of in free England,
would certainly have brought him the active op-
pression of “ The Full Court.” The rev. gentleman
said “The men whom these blasphemy laws had just
sent to prison, were men innocent of any offence
against public morals; men untainted by any
crime, but whose only offence was that they had
attacked the popular theology. It was important in
considering the prosecution in this case to re-
member who the prosecutor was. The prosecutor
was not a person, but a thing ; the vilest, most
shameless, most unjust, most extravagant fraud
in England—the Corporation of the City of London.
The fact was that Bumbledom had been stung into
anger by the jokes and jibes levelled by the Free-
thinker, not against Christianity, but against it;
. against its use of trust funds; against Its gluttony
and its swilling. There was never a prosecution
so marked by hypocrisy as this, for it made religion
a stalking-horse for an attack ew Ific s ea v °* v* 1 ?
member for Northampton. The meaning and the
object of the prosecution was to get Mr. Brad-
laugh, who had only a technical connection with
the Freethinker, disqualified from sitting 1 in
Parliament, and this second prosecution was taken
up for the purpose of prejudicing the first prose-
cution, which was still pending, and it was inde-
cently hurried through the courts in order that
this purpose might ho served. The conduct of the
judge, too, was a, disgrace to English jurisprudence,
he charged the jury not as an impartial .pulgc, out as
a partisan lawyer. A conviction m such a trial
was a disgrace alike to judge, to jury, and to Jaw;
and the sentence—one of ferocious seventy—-was a
sentence given to the vilest of the vile. It was a
sentence greatlv in excess of what would be given
to a vile offender. The same judge who sentenced
Mr. Foote to twelve months’ imprisonment sent a
man charged with manslaughter, and who had
been several times previously convicted for vioient
assaults, to three months’ imprisonment with hard
labour. (Hisses.) He (Mr. Sharman) bold that this
prosecution, full of hypocrisy, conceived in sin,
and shapened in iniquity, was in the highest degree
impolitic, and had done an injury to Christianity
in the minds of the working classes of this country,
which would not be removed until the Blasphemy
Laws were swept away.” Mr. Sharman is the
gentleman for whose services the Unitarians of
Sydney are bidding. There’s a big field for him
here.
Before the alteration in the English cri-
minal statutes, the penalties were so severe that
juries “ acquitted” in many cases where the evi-
dence for conviction was palpable. The new cri-
minal code of N.S. Wales is having the same effect.
At Hay, a boy was acquitted. The case was clear
against him, but the least penalty allowed was
three years. Sir Alfred Stephen must now devise
means tor dealing with recalcitrant juries.
It is interesting to learn that the French
excavation party in the Island of Delso, has dis-
covered a complete house, “ the floor of the
court of which is of beautiful mosaic, containing
flowers, fishes, and other ornaments, and in the
middle of the court there is a cistern full of water.
If therc'd only l>een a dog in the yard, and the
Bi loci an butler handing a drinK over the fence.to
S a policeman, the discovery would indeed havs
1 boon complete. ,
A Joyful Undertaking.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general.]
RACING INDEX.
In consequence of the length to which th
Index to Races to come. Entries. Weights and Fo
feits extends, we are forced to devise means fo
economising space. Readers will find the colum
regularly headed with a list of fixtures
be attended to within the month; which will
followed by names and dates of Race-meetings t
be held in the more distant future.
THE MONTH’S FIXTURES.
V.A.T.C. Races October 13,20
Wollongong and Berrima Entries October 16
Sydney T.C. Anniversay Handicap and
Tattersall’s Cup close October 18
Coolah Handicap close October 10.
Narrandera close October 1.
Berrima Gener 1 Entry October 2:
Wollongong T.C. Annual October 24. 25
Hay N.Y.R.C October 25, 26
Berrima District Races October 30. 3 .
Tamworth Handicaps close .November J.
Victoria R.C. Spring November 3,6,8,10
Victoria Trotting Club Races November
Coolah General Entry November 8
Williamstown R.C. (V.) November 9
Clarence River.T.C. (Amateur) November
Coolah (Annual) November ( .
Canterbury (N.Z.) J.C November 6,7,8
Auckland (N.Z.) R.C. Races November 10
Murrumbidgee T.C. Wagga, Weights Nov. 12
Murrumbidgee T.C. General Entry Nov. 16
FUTURE RACES.
Murrumbidgee T.C November 21, 22. 23
Bendigo J.C. (V.) November 28, 29
Narandera J.C November 29, 30
Tamworth R.C. (Summer) December 4,6
Warialda J.C December 12,13
Liverpool J.C December 22
Victoria Amateur T.C December 26
Pleasant Creek (V.) December 26
Tattersall’s (Annual) January 1.1884
Sydney T.C January 26
Tasmanian R.C. (Summer) February 13,14,15.
Wanganui (N.Z.) J.C. Autumn March 6, 7.
Hawkeobury R.C. (Autumn) April 3, 5.
AQUATICS
Sydney Amateur Canvas Dingy Club 1st Class
Race October 13.
Double Bay Regatta : October 27.
Balmain Regatta November 9.
Champagne Cup November 17.
All Comers Regatta December
National Regatta January 26, 1884.
ATHLETICS.
Wallsend Athletic Club Meeting November 9.
Bathurst Sheffield Handicap November 9.
.Tunee Junction Sports Nov. 9.
Hay Athletic Club Sports Dec. 26, 27.
Blayney Sports Dec. 26.
BILLIARDS
Byrne v. Weiss, at Melbourne October 17.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“Number One”: We are not in a position
to give such information in our sporting
columns, as the Club does not advertise with us;
and it would be hardly fair of us to Interfere in
their business bv giving them gratis notices.
.. “Jorrocks”: The system of giving yearly re-
tainers to jockeys is not general in this colony;
though it has been adopted — “Treble X”
(Temora); You win your wager. Palmyra and
Segenhoe, a daughter and son of The Fawn, both
won the Maribyrnong Plate — “ T. W.B. (Peters-
ham): The Barb. Barbarian, and Barbelle—two
sons and a daughter of Young Gulnare; and
Jav’lin, Commodore, and Jessamine, two sons and
a daughter of Lilia; were all bred by the Messrs.
Lee In the Bathurst district. Amongst them they
won many races “Old Fashion”: Since the
abolition of heats, for civilised raws, there is no
longer anv use for a “distance post.”—“Quid
Nunc”: The Melbourne Town Plate has been run
for at four miles since 1849. Certainly in 1851,
when Mr. Aliok Hunter’s “Dauntless” won it.
Rac ing Considerations.
Singk whatare often called the “pood old days,”
when the Australian Turf was in its infancy, and
proceeding: through the times of .Torrocks and
Plover. Sampson and Sportsman, Blue Bonnet,
Green Mantle. Cooramln, Cossack, with hosts more
such—when the names of Roberts. Smith, Scott,
Hunter, Chambers, Fawcett. Goodsir, Windred,
.Tardine, Rowe, Atkinson, and many others were
prominent among horse-owners, and the naps were
trained and steered by such men ns old William
Cutts, Arkins. Noah Beal, Sam Thompson, Jockey
Brown, Marsden, Snell. Matt. Scott, Hely, Meharty,
Dunn, Hipperson, Holmes, Johnny Cutts, etcetera
--while men of horsey proclivities were satisfied to
race for prizes of £50. to be run for at three-mile
heats, and the New South Wales Legislature had
not become so “rascally moral” as to refuse voting
Queen’s Plate—and before Coker, Boule, Bavin,
and Goyder arrived, as the pioneer contingent
of that' ylorious institution “The Ring,’’-since
then, it need not be said there have been many,
and wondrous changes. We are not going
into the abstract question of quality—whether
changes have brought improvement in their wake,
and “Our Isthmian games" have a more sub-
stantial, as well as more pretentious, footing ? Or,
on the other hand, did the far-away past in reality
comprise the “ pood old days” which the march of
intellect and reform has hunted away V We will
ell something of the changes that have occurred—
of the present status of turf matters-from which
our readers can draw their own conclusions on
-hings of to-day and yesterday.
During the years intermediate between Lauris-
tina and Navigator—both animals associated Inti-
mately with the name of de Mestre—there has
been a continuous roll of the tide in favour of
“big money” and two-year-old racing; and the
latter may be taken as a consequence of the
former, as every possessor of a two-year-old,
whether bred or purchased, becomes naturally
anxious to make as early a profit as possible out of
liis youngster, which the propensity of leading
clubs for large added subsidies gives him an oppor-
tunity of doing. The number of racehorses has
steadily gone on increasing, in a fair proportion to
the stakes, and amount of speculation taking
place on the two great events of a season ; but
the class of men who owned horses years
ago are not now in the category, having, for the
most part, had to beat a retreat before the irre-
sistible advance of a lately-risen generation, who
race not for sport, but as a sure and certain means
of making money. The rage for large prizes set in
first among our neighbours ot Victoria, with
whom It is to the fore still, and who have spared
no pains to inoculate all racing clubs outside
their own boundaries. In this colony it was sought
more than twenty years ago to raise up a Derby,
Leger, and Champagne Stakes, at the Jockey Club
centre, without added money, on the English time-
honoured custom of letting the owners make their
own stakes for youngsters against youngsters ;
leaving Club subsidies for the encouragement of
old horses, as well as those two and three-year-olds
that couldn’t hold their own with the best of their
years, at equal weights; and the stakes which were
so established have thriven well since, though it Is
folly to expect they can successfully keep
place, alongside of the new stakes brought out
to oppose them with large sums of added
money. So, it has come to pass, that the
Maribyrnong Plate and other largely assisted
two ■ year ■ ojd stakes of the V.R.C.i as well
as the Derby and Leger of the same club, are made
more pretentious in amount than the stakes which
occupy like positions under the Australian Jockey
Mub, only- made up by the subscribers; and thesa
events or the Melbourne programme have, for
more reasons than one, a considerable influence in
keeping horses away from the post for the Rand-
wick business. But, so far as surroundings can tell
a tale, this antagonistic influence has not inflicted
a °y very deadly Injury on the latter.
That the system of making large stakes to be run
tor has answered at the Victorian race metropolis,
both as regards the enrichment of leading clubs
and the widely-spread and still widely-spreading
interest in turf affairs all through the colony, is
proved convincingly in a variety of ways. The
number of people attending the F.emington try t
on Cup Day is almost fabulous, and h rdly less so
are the crowds that assemble to see the Maribyr-
nong Plate and “Blue Ribbon” contended for,
on| the first day of the Spring meeting ;
while the Immense profits of that one meet-
ing, or of the single day, were for years suffi-
cient to leave the ViR.C. a handsome yearly profit,
after paying for large losses on Autumn and
Summer meetings, as well as many costly and well
executed improvements to the course. The mar-
vellously large and expensive standing army of
“ citizen soldiers ” whom the turf keeps in its pay,
tells its unvarnished tale of the quantity of work
to be done, no less than of the satisfactory per-
centage of profits it returns; and we may be'quite
sure that the large subsidies to stakes woulij never
secure the financial well-being of a club, were it
not for the contingent influence of such valuable
stakes as vehicles of gambling to the many-
headed, and certain gains to the “army.” Some
years back attempts were made both north and
south in New South Wales to attract the well-
paying element of many horses, and, by conse
quence, large attendances to race meetings, by
following the tactics of Melbourne ; but the
attempts in both directions resulted in failure
Wagga Wagga and Glen Innes having discovered
to their cost a necessity for again drawing in their
horns. Men, like those of the old school, who
race for racing’s sake, are few and far between
having found their occupation gone: those whe
kept horses for profit, and make the “ post ” plaj
about third fiddle to the “ pocket,” find it neces-
sary to work in with the ring ; and, as the pro-
fessional legion are better suited by a purely
metropolitan trade than by doing peripatetic duty,
the composite owner of horses sees no object to be
gained by going far afield with his nags-except
when, here and there, one of the caste has a chance
to sweep the board at a meeting or two, by which
he destroys the good name of those two or three
meetings for as many seasons to come. The 'arger
the prizes, the more the “standing army” will rule
racing; and, while the same rule continues, we
shall find “Old English Fairs” and “fortune-
telling ” take the place of legitimate racing, to
bring funds into the failing exchequers of what
will still continue to be known by the name of
turf societies.
In Victoria, an influential arm of the sporting
Press, under a regime that continued many years,
had, tor one stereotyped refrain, to which it was
continually recurring, “ the augmentation of added
money” to races; and it lost no opportunity of
drawing comparisons between Sydney and Mel-
bourne, on the score of club liberality, which were
made considerably to the disadvantage of the
former; and, wonderful to say, the same authority
was as unremitting in its war-waging against
gambling and its professors. “The Ring" came
frequently under the lash of that sporting organ
for many years - often with but scanty reason, even
if at times there were plenty; and yet it might
very well have been “ guessed,” even by writers
who did not claim to high degrees in turfdom, that
for clubs to make profit outof large subsidies, the
interest in racing, with increasing advantage to
owners of horses, must be kept up; and that these
positive necessaries cannot be secured without a
plentiful supply of gambling facilities which all
classes may indulge in at every turn. To argue in
favour of racing clubs giving larger and larger
prizes out of their funds, without at the same time
providing how those funds may be augmented, is
not conferring much beneficial advice on those who
have to find the funds; but there’s still less reason in
recommending a forced expenditure on the one
hand, and on the other using every available
weapon to compass the ruin of whatever supplies
the sinews of war. This is precisely what a section
of the Victorian sporting press persistently did for
years, while the large stakes and the plethoric
gambling institutions grew up and flourished side
by side, as who could doubt they would? And our
neighbours have the satisfaction of seeing the
gambling confederacy exercising a much larger
say in turf matters, than the nominal magnates of
the turf can use in regulating “the ring.*’ With
us, things have not as yet got into quite the same
groove as over the Murray. The “book” depart-
ment is neither so large nor so defiant as among
our neighbours, while bogus consultations have
had the cold shoulder turned to them here much
more decisively than in Melbourne; and yet we
have quite sufficient professors of both “ B.” and
“C.” to do as much legitimate business as will cir-
culate all the spare cash absolutely necessary for
Sydney speculators to disgorge. The army of turf
hahitucs need large fields of entries for certain
races, and they take care to provide these in plenty,
as well as starters at the post, and the Melbourne
Cup and Derby wo■;Id still continue to be equally
as great vehicles of speculation, if theaddod money
were reduced to one-third in one and to nothing in
the other. These considerations will be continued
in our next.
The Budget.
[BY NEW WARRIOR.]
The “ Referee ” has a meagre Jet of goods to put
before its readers this week, in the shape of work
for horse owners and trainers to do within the
next few days, and the weekly warning is easily
given, in the following fashionRetries for Wol-
longong and Berrima to be made on Tuesday, the
16th instant: those for Sydney Turf Club Anniver-
sary Handicap, and Tattersall’s Cup. on Thursday,
the 18th; and these two last events, being of no
small importance, should be kept in mind by even
those interested folk who are disporting them-
selves on the next two Saturdays at Victorian
Caulfield. Berrima general entry comes on the
33rd instant, which will be next Tuesday week;
and on the 34th and 35th Sydney ‘‘sports” will
probably betake themselves to Wollongong Turf
Club annual tryst. Our index, will tell all that
needs to be known within the coming next fort-
night.
Mr. A. F. Smart was very fortunate with his
last purchase. Charming, a filly he bought from
Mr. M. Fennelly, on Friday, for £300 ; and winning
the Sapling Stakes quickly repaid him for his
venture. It must have been rather disappointing,
both to the Hon. James White and Mr. Fennelly,
to run second so soon with Bargo to the cast-off
of the stable. Mr. Smart has re-named Charming,
and she will in future race as “Brown and Rose.”
Judging by the running of Bon Bon on Saturday,
and the form he displayed, I fancy the Warwick
Farm stable is in rare form; and I expect that the
“brown and rose” will bo very often carried to
victory at the coming meeting of the V.R.C. Judg-
ing by the tone of the betting market, the blue
riband of our neighbour’s appears to bo only a
matter of health for Archie, whose galloping qua-
lities arc so well known; and having wintered well,
I am pretty sure this slashing son of Rapidity will
well repay Messrs. Forrester and Smart for the
trouble and expense they have been put to.
Perhaps a worse day for racing has seldom been
seen at Handwick than last Saturday, and whoever
the gate lessee was must have been a considerable
loser; for the heavy rain which fell between half-
past 11 and 3 o’clock stoppenot only casual race-
goers, but many old lovers of the sport, who
wouldn’t venture out —and the attendance, as one
may guess, was the poorest seen for many a long
day. That the Sydney Turf Club should have been
called upon to put up with such a day is in every
way to be regretted, for a capital bill of fare had
been provided, and the various races promised to
give good sport. In this latter particular those who
bravely and firmly defied the elements were well
and the six races, with but one exception,
gave great finishes Byron landed the Hurdle Race
by a bare half length ; the first three in the
*“Xpurite Plate could have been covered, not only
with the proverbial sheet, but, In fact, with any
2 one; the Sapling and Selling Stakes were
l er| gth wins, and Soldier Boy fairly “ squeezed”
the farewell Handicap (showing what a great horse
he is In any company) from Wallangra by a short
n fck. the Corinthian Cup being the only easy win
of the day. Such a day’s racing was good enough
to satisfy anybody except backers of favourites,
who had anything but a Jolly time of it. The
racing reflected the greatest credit on Mr. Scarr
l0 .r his handicaps; and I'm happy to say that, nob-
withstanding the course was in many places covered
with water, there wasn’t a single accident.
While attending the race meeting of the Narrabri
Club, held last week, I couldn’t help being struck
with the terrible state of the surrounding country.
It wasn’t expected that the residents would
be very flush in their purses after having gone
through such a bad season, and the club has had a
good many difficulties to contend against. I think
I am right in saying that the N.J.C. were in debt
tor years until twelve months ago, when they
wiped out the amount of their overdraft, and the
meeting just concluded will further enrich their
exchequer. The course, which is a trifle‘over a
mile round, is as level as a bowling-green, and I’ll
be bound to say, a picture worth seeing in pro-
sperous times; but at present everything appears
dry and hard, and by no means inviting. The
running ground was hard enough to break any
horse down, but of course this was not the clubs
fault: and if a little money were expended in re-
moving a few trees from the middle of the course,
and the plough run over the running ground, the
Narrabri course would be second to no country
one I know of. The structure at present doing
duty as a stand is by no means large enough, nor
is it good enough, and I was pleased to
hear that it is only temporary, and will
shortly bo replaced by a substantial one, for which
flans have already been prepared and agreed upon,
hope, too, when this comes about, that the
paddock will be enlarged, for it’s much too small
at present, and an entrance made at the back or
side for horses to enter, in place of taking them,
asunder existing arrangements, to and fro through
I the front gate. When leaving Narrabri on Friday
morning, there was every appearance of heavy
rain, and I hope the good folk of the district have
long before this had what they are sadly in need of.
From flies to hand I learn that Messrs. Dlackler
and Ferry have been refused a new lease of the
course by the City Council in Adelaide, the reason
being, from what I can gather, that the gentlemen
named do not constitute a proper racing club. The
South Australian Jockey Club may now be called
a thing of the past.
The disqualification of the jockey King, whom I
spoke of in your last issue, by the stewards at
Elstcrnwick for very suspicious riding, has been
endorsed by the V.R.C., and for the next three
months King will have time to brood over the
mistake he has made.
—
The following still remain in the Maribyrnong
PlateReal Jam, Jackdaw, Lady Rowena. Invio-
tus, Jereed, David, Illusion, Concord, Sportive,
Falkirk, Leporello, Second King, The Maid, An-
toinette, Bonne Fortune, Merrima, Sheela, Sar-
danapalus, Venetia, The Bohemian, Neplcalllna,
Gipsy’s Warning, Lord Exeter. Garfield, Honey-
dew, Buckingham, Ionia, Coir, King’s Own, Zephyr
colt, Luna colt, The Jewel, Superba, lolanthe,
Bargo, Alicia, King ot the Gipsies, Lavington,
Helene, Gratitude, The Broker, and Sandal,
Halifax, by Hawthornden from Modesty, was
sold after winning the Selling Race at the Mel-
>ourne Hunt Club meeting, on Saturday, for 70
guineas.
The Australasian gives a list of the winning
race-horse owners for the season 1882-3, from
which I extract the following statistics of those
who have won over £1000 each ; showing that out
«f the first half dozen. Messrs, de Mestre, Smart,
the late Hon. E. K. Cox, and the Hon. James
White, drew £14,589 for N.8.W.; while the Hon,
W. Pearson and Mr. Branch, the other two, totted
up £7693 in the interests of Victoria. In the fol-
lowing catalogue, the first numeral is for the
number of winners each owner brought out; the
second, the number of races they won ; and the
third the amountMr, E. do Mestre (N.S.W.), 8.
14, £5718; Hon. W. Pearson (V.), 6, 13. £4094; Mr.
W. Branch (V.). 7, 14, £3689; Mr. A. F. Smart
[N.S.W.l. 3, 6, £338); Hon. E. K. Cox (N.S.W.), 3, 2,
£3830; Hon. James White (N.8.W.), 5. 11, £3771 •
Sir T. Elder (S.A.), 5, 10. £2659; Mr. J. B. Savlll
(8.A.), 1, 3, £1858: Mr. C. T. Roberts (N.S.W.), 3, 6,
£1773; Mr. E. Weeks (V.), 7, 91, £1740; Mr. W.
Kelso (N.S.W.), 6, 11, £1680: Mr. T. Brown 1N.8.W),
5, 11. £1468: Mr. D. 8. Wallace (V.), 5, 8R>, £1373; Mr.
T. Wilson (V.). 5, 11. £1329; Mr. J. Redfearn (V.),
1, 4, £1335; Mr. R. Howie (V.), 4, 7, £1380; Mr. J.
Monaghan (N.S.W.), 1. 3, £1131; Mr. T. Jordan
(S A.), 4, 8, £1034; Mr. F. Wentworth (N.S.W.), 3, 3,
£1018.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
E. C. Dauels won the English one-mile
amateur swimming- championship in 31 min. 40 3-.
sec.
The one-mile professional championship
swimming cup was competed for on July 7, at
Hollingworth Lake, near Rochdale, England. J
Finey won in 30 min. 37 sec. The time was ex-
cellent, though it does not equal the best time on
record, which is 38 min. 24 sec., accomplished by J
B. Johnson.
Blackburn has accepted Miller’s challenge
to wrestle catch-as-oatcn-can above the wabtfor
£100, and has planked a deposit of £25 with the
Melbourne Sportsman. He offers to allow Milltr
£10 to wrestle In Sandhurst, or to take £10 if the
match comes dff in Melbourne.
In the tricycle handicap at Biggleswade,
England, the champion, C. E. Liles, did a wonder-
ful performance. Though called upon to concede
in some Instances as much as 300 yards in a mile,
he ran past his men with ridiculous ease, and
Anally won by 250 yards in the capital time (on a
wet and heavy grass course) of 4 min. 9 sec. Liles
appears to be almost invincible at the present
time whether mounted on bike or trike.
There is not a man living to-day who ever
did a triple somersault. The first man who ever
attempted the triple somersault was John P.
Aymar. It was done a number of times by him in
practice, and when it came the night to do it, he
went over three and a half times and fell on his
nock, and was carried out of the ring. He lived
48 hours afterwards. It happened in 1843, on the
Isle of Wight. Frank Starks was killed in his first
attempt at triple turning at Indianapolis in 1883.
On the return cricket match between
Middlesex and Gloucestershire, the former made,
in one innings, 537 runs, of which the Hon. A.
Lyttelton and I. D. Walker contributed 324 before
they were separated. Unfortunately for Middlesex,
time; was called before the last of their opponents’
wickets was captured. As the aggregate of Glou-
cester’s two totals was 114 behind Middlesex’s one,
the victory of the latter county was a moral, al-
though it was unlucky in not being able to add to
its list of actual ones.
On 7th August, Mr. T. Hill and J. Laxton,
the presumably best amateur and professional
boxers respectively in England, under 8st. 101b.,
met in competition at Lillie Bridge Gymnasium.
Hill weighed 8st. 81b., stands 5ft. and is 38
years of age, whilst the professional is 33, passes
the standard at 5ft. 3in., and turned the scale at
8st. Three good rounds were fought, but
youth and weight, as usual, had to be served, and
the palm was given to the amateur. Bell’s Life
says;—“Hill is undoubtedly a good man, but de-
cidedly not a champion as champions were. He is
fairly quick with his hands, but cannot use his
feet, and a quick active man with not quite as
much science as the Brum would bo all over him
and away before the latter’s crawling stand still
and fight, business told. That Hill evidently knew
he was meeting a good man was palpable to all.
aud had Laxton been aa fit aa hie opponent, and
had the vigour of youth and advantage of •
lived a quiet life, it would never havn *™ f i vin t
on record that an amateur could beaf dow h
sional at boxing.” oeat a Profeg.
If not the most truthful, certain w
most amusing part of the Sydney Amateur « ., th »
Club s annual report is contained in the feiwL ln *
passage:- With regard to the Club shed 1 ?
was completed last March only, your comm
regret the decision arrived at by the Gove™ m ' tte «
who have taken over the shed from the
ground being wanted for improvements o?’
Circular Quay. The Club thereby sushis a a th «
Pecuniary loss, the total cost of the shL a
£1059 12s., and the amount received
Government being £650.” W e were under go
pression that the sale was brought about a 1 ®'
unfortunates who went security for the
and who were only too glad to make a ceniu?* 12 ®--
something out of the wreck. As we S nty of
time ago, the shed was a dead failure with re^ m °
the purpose for which it was intended. egar^to
Says London Bell’s Life:— “About tu
on!y ready interesting item of news that we ho 6
to chronicle in aquatics this week is a renm? r
Australia that Laycock has had tho temfri^ 0 ®
throw down the gauntlet to Hanlan for a to
race on the Parramatta river • but un te 1
present time we have not heard what the iS* th9
tions of the champion are on the subject 1
be remembered that when Trickett and r
were in this country they both exprXd
to row any other sculler in the worhl ovL th h
champion course of Australia, and those who
in a position to know, consider that there is
stretch of water on which races of iinnnrt!L no
are decided more difficult to navigate than thif/® 9
whmhLaylook is anxious to try concS Ki !!
the champion. Those who are in a position ♦
know evidently don’t know much about "nf 0
champion course. Perhaps the defeated EngiSh
scullers who recently returned to their mhS
heath have something to do with this opinion! 9
Sullivan is not the only man in America
whom the English champion, Mitchell cnnrw
knock out in three rounds. Mitchell reran**
wagered £30 he could knock out ProfessorLvni r
the champion middleweight of Colorado, and tu’
bout came off before a large audience in a theatre
at Leadville, Col. Lynn would not stand im ♦
take his gruel, but fell every time Mitchell struci
at him. The Englishman appealed to the referee
who said he knew nothing of Queensberrv rules’
and would rather be excused from giving » ,ff’
cision. Mitchell was persuaded to give the Colored*
man another trial, but upon his continuing th2
dropping tactics, the Englishman threw his gfove«
down °° stage in disgust. This reminds m 3
the fight between Ben Gaunt, the English giant
and Bendigo. The latter would pink his opponent
and drop at once, trying for a foul blow, tmr
annoyed Gaunt to such an extent that when Ban
digo went on his knees after striking a stingW
blow, he could not restrain himself, and slanned
his opponent with his open hand. The fight wa»
given to Bendigo on the foul. K 88
At the second reading of the Crueltv to
Ammals Act Amendment Bill in the House of
Lords, Lord Westbury said the accusations brought
against evdn well-conducted clubs of crueltv
ought to be substantiated, or else the clubs should
have an opportunity of defending themselves He
had shot pigeons all over the world ever since he
could shoot, and had never seen an act of crueltv
w} 6 ,fPort, except so far as the fact of taking a
bird s life might be cruelty. Attention bad been
drawn to the betting in connection with pigeon
shooting, but were there no other sports In which
betting took place in this country ? The supply of
for tfa e sport was a very large industrv.
£30,000 was paid annually to the Lincolnshire
farmers alone for pigeons, besides large sums to
several other counties. He maintained that
pigeon shooting had also produced an immense
improvement in the gun-making trade by the
competition that it excited between gunraakers
The Bill was thrown out by a majority of thirteen
against the second reading. But the House was a
very thin one, and the Bill will undoubtedly be
passed next session.
Had Jack Palmer, better known as
“ Scroggins,” lived in the present day. he would
certainly have made his mark as a knocker-out in
three acts. “Scroggy” was brought up to the
sea, and was unknown to the P.R. until nearly at
middle age, though well known round about
Wapping as anything but a bargain to pick up in
a rough and tumble. Short, stump-like in stature,
thick round shoulders, with head and face so gro-
tesquely his own, that they gained for him the
sobriquet of “Scroggins,” by which name only he
was ever known. Upon finding his way to the
prize-ring, without any knowledge of scientific
fighting, he won seven battles right off the reel,
three of which were with the scientific Bill
Eales. He was then matched to fight the
wily left-handed Ned Turner, who —having
seen and known his mode of fighting, which
was that of rushing is. and delivering a
terrific swinging blow under the ear—waited
on Scroggins, and as he made his rush, Turner met
him with a fearful hit in the throat, from the
effects of which he never recovered during the
fight, which ended in favour of Turner, after a
short battle. This ended Scroggins’ short but
strange career in the prize-ring.
The week preceding the 4th of October was
a busy one in Braidwood. That day was fixed for
the athletic sports, including a 150 yards spurt for
£50 oside, between M’Tiernan, of Micalago, and
Frier, of Braidwood. There was a good programme,
including a £25 prize handicap, won by Sharpe, a
local “ ped.” Unfortunately, the time was not
taken. The match’between M’Tiernan and Frier
was the real event of the day. The latter started a
warm favourite at 6 to 4. From the very beginning
he wasn’t in it. M’Tiernan was never pushed, and
came in as he liked in 151 seconds. His friends talk
of packing him against Farrell, of Sydney. Al-
though not asked to run in the late match, he
appears to be the coming man. There was a good
attendance, and the day’s sport was brought to an
end by a race between a country editor and a bush
publican. The editor—a man of “ Despatch ’’—was
given two yards start, as, uflbto the 4th of October,
he had preserved a grim silence regarding his
‘ scooting ” proclivities. He won—because he was
the better man, his backers say ; because be was
sufficiently latitudinal to occupy the space between
the ropes, so that “Bung” could not get by, his
enemies aver. A lot of money changed hands, and,
at 3 a.m., several local litterateurs was observed
dipping the end of a stick in the ink-bottle to
write about the necessity for local option.
H. M. has asked us for a list of Mace’s per-
formances.—Jem Mace beat Slack for £10, nine
rounds, 10m„ Mildenhall, Oct 3, 1855 ; beat pul
Thorpe for £50,18 rounds, 37m., at Midway, let).
17, 1857 : forfeited £50 to Mike Madden, forfeited
to Madden a second time £15 to £10 ; beaten b>
Bob Brettle, £200, two rounds, 3m., Bank of Med-
way, Sept. 31, 1858; beat Posh Price, £100, eleven
rounds. 17m., Surrey, Jan. 35. 1859: beat Bon
Travers, £200, six rounds, 31m., Feb. 31,1860, polic*
interfered, 57 rounds, 91m.. Feb. 33, down tae
river : beat Bob Brettle, £400, eleven rounds, 19m-,
part Sept. 19, Oxfordshire, and part Sept. 30, lew.
down the river ; beat Sam Hurst, £400, eigni
rounds, 40m., Home Circuit, June 13, 1881: b e ® 1
King, £400. 43 rounds, Ih. 8m., Home Circuit. Jan.
28,1863 : beaten by King, £400, 31 rounds, 38m.-
Home Circuit, Nov. 26, 1863 ; beat Joe Goss, £lWt;
19 rounds, Ih.55h£m., down the river. Sept. 1.18p>-
draw with Joe Coburn, £1000, the latter received
£100 for expenses, Ireland, Oct. 4, 1864, no referee
appointed ; received £130 forfeit from Joe wor-
maid, Sept. 16,1865, Wormald forfeiting, through
illness ; draw with Joe Goss, £400 and the cham-
pion’s belt, one round, Ih. 5m., Longfleld Conn,
near Meopham, May 24, 1866; beat Joe Goss, ±-*w-
31 rounds, 31m., in a 16-foot ring, London district,
Aug. 6.1866 ; draw with O’Baldwin, the Irish giant.
£400, Oct. 15, 1867—Mace arrested and bound overj
boat Tom Allen, £lu00, 10 rounds, 44m., £ew
Orleans, May 10, 1870, draw with Joe Coburn, £*w,
Port Pen, Canada, May 11, 1871, no blows struoic,
authorities interfered ; draw with Joe Cotmrn.
£1000,13 rounds, 3h.28m., Bay St. Louis.
30,1871 ; draw with Ned O’Baldwin, for £200, bow
men arrested and held for bail at Baltimore, Aug.
4, 1873,


SPORTING GLEANINGS.
r.j re the proposed Robms-Tracey pigeon
h noting match, Robins has forfeited his deposit.
8n At Tenterflold, an old man named Stonebridge,
f-’vears of age, was in the act of stooping to pick
.nftcricket ball, when he fell down dead. Heart
aispose • • M. Cosgrove defeated W. Robertson in a
milliard match for a liver, at Larkin's room on
Saturday week. A match has been arranged
botween the pair for double the amount At
Srnttaina, F. Forbes’ May Fly beat C. Bovat's
ouncan iu a race for £20 At Port Adelaide, re-
rintlv. in a juvenile go-as-you-please, a 13-year-old
,ircbin covered eleven miles in two hours The
rootamundra and Wagga Wagga cricket clubs
have opened the season with a squabble over the
rnv CUP James Watson, champion long distance
hiovcle rider of Edinburgh, has challenged Rolfe,
the Australian champion, to a six days’ ride of
piitht hours a day, £100 to £250 a side.. The pigeon
match at Windsor on Thursday last was won by
Mr Mason, a local man. The proceedings were
pni’ivened somewhat by a rough-and-tumble set-to
between two of the competitors....Lake Macquarie
regatta will be held at Galgabba, one of the most
beautiful places on the lake, November 9. A big
success expected Notwithstanding the bad
weather on Saturday last, the Sirocco, Waltanga,
Perl, 01 thona, Guinevere, Meteor, Daphne, Mabel,
Pleiades, Doris, and Ena put in an appearance at
the opening of the R.S.Y.S. The yachts, accom-
uanled by a steam launch, proceeded to Cremorne,
where the Commodore, Mr. Knox, gave the com-
nany a spread. After dinner, Mr. T. A. Dibbs took
a number of the members for a cruise in his steam
vacht, Ena—Included in the programme of the
Sydney Football Club’s picnic sports on Saturday
next, at Chowder, are an all-comers’ handicap, 150
yards, an all-comers’ Siamese race, and an all-
comers’ 440 yar s’ handicap. Amateurs only.
* * *
At Laramie City, U.S., recently, there was
a thirty minutes go-as-you-please race, open to all.
Among the contestants was John Harding, aged
11 standing four feet in height, and weighing fifty
pounds. He won the race, to the surprise of the
crowd who witnessed the contest, covering 4 miles
889 yards, in 30min, the greatest pedestrian per-
formance on record for a boy — Says an American
paper: “Jem Mace has brought over to America
all his trophies, which include the champion belts
of England, America, Australia, the gold Wynd
ham cup, the Birmingham challenge cup, the
Norwich plate, the Leeds champion goblet, the
English champion middle-weight belt, the Belfas
goblet and the Dublin challenge cup, etc. There
never was a pugilist, not even Tom Sayers, than
could boast ox having so many trophies.” Whom did
Mace light for the champion belt of Australia ?...
List of English winning mounts up to August 10
Archer 134, Wood 121, Fordham 57 When
M'Mahon and Dufur wrestled at Boston, they hac
a five hours’ bout, without either gaining a fall
M'Mahon has put up a deposit, and challenged
Dufur to another trial— Harry Dunn, the Ameri
can wrestler, has challenged H. A. Slade, the
Maori, to wrestle for £100 or upwards Prof. G
Poulton recently swam 21 yards in one stroke, on
his back, at the Mayfield bath, Manchester, Eng
Dr. Cox, the well-known Irish crioneter, better
known la Ireland as “Tom Cox of the Leinster,’
is dead ...In England, on July 7, for Bradford
Albion, G. Ulyett took three wickets with succes
give balls....Morley, the old English cricketer, is
now coach to Trinity College School, Port Hope
Canada—Jem Mace says Sullivan is one of the
best and most wonderful pugilists he ever saw...
The National Police Gazette, N.Y., of 11th
August, contains a first-rate portrait of Larry
Foley, together with a list of his performances...
In an exhibition match between the English bil
llardists, Peall and Collins, the former made breaks
of 387 (88 spots), 334 (109 spots), and 212 (70 spots)...
Mr.George Higgins, the well-known English sports-
man, died on the 3rd instant— At the Putney Boat-
builders’ and Boatmen’s Regatta (Eng.), G. Perkins
who was in receipt of 8 sec. start from Bubear, won
the open sculling handicap, G. Biggs (50 sec.) second
Bubear retired in the first heat An insurance
company has been started in England to provide
against damage to bicycles and tricycles. As at
the present time there are 200,000 and upwards in
use, and the various makers are turning out num-
bers dally, the company ought to make a good
thing out of it. However, a still better idea would
be to insure, not the machines, but their riders
Hanlan, Leo, and Hosmer, rowed three miles with
a turn for a purse, at Pulton, N.Y., on July 26.
Hanlan won easily in 19min. 49sec., Hosmer was
second, in 19rain. 50sec., and Lee’s time was 19min.
Slseo—Mr. W. A. Long’s Tonans and Philosopher
both started at the Brighton (Eng.) August meet-
ing, but neither ran into a place Duncan C. Ross
has in hand a Canadian pugilist, named O’Donnell,
whom he wants to match against Paddy Ryan for
£100. The Canadian weighs over sixteen stone,
stands five feet eleven Inches, and has a chest
measuroment of 48 inches. When asked what he
thought of Slade, Ross replied: “ He’s a big,
strong fellow, but has an innocent look. I didn’t
think he’d have much show with Sullivan ; he
hasn’t the look of a fighter. He has the appear-
ance of a good-natured schoolboy.” A Preston
butcher, named Murphy, who had often challenged
Webb, and who had always contended that Webb
would never succeed in breasting the Niagara
whirlpool, has also met with a death similar to that
which overtook the captain. Murphy on more
than one occasion challenged Webb to dare with
him the Ribble whirlpool; Murphy undertook to
swim this fearful pool on the very day Webb
attempted the Niagara, and he was drowned It
is stated for a fact that an oilicious English income-
tax commissioner wrote to the owner of a well-
known racing yacht, requesting him to declare the
amount of profit derived from his vessel The
veteran cricketer, Ephraim Lockwood, in play-
ing for his county .(Yorkshire) against Kent, the
other day, made 208 without giving a chance
until he was trapped behind the wicket
Fordham’s win on Border Minstrel in the Good-
wood Cup makes his fifth succ?ss in the race, he
having ridden The Duke, Starke, Rogerthorpe,
and Baroncino in previous years A Frenchman
named Balsan has started for America to make
the attempt which cost Captain Webb his life.
Balsan is a powerful young man, 25 years of age,
who has a great reputation as a swimmer. He
asserts that Captain Webb perished because ho
was a swimmer instead of a diver. To swim along
the Palls of Niagara it is necessary to remain
under water a long time, and Balsan represents
himself as having remained 65 seconds underwater
m plunging through an eddy formed by a cataract
or the river Tarn, between Broquies and Albi
Webb’s less in the Niagara Falls brings to
memory the story of his predecessor, Samuel
Batch: was a simple-minded fellow who
nved at Providence, R.I. One day while at work
on the roof of a high building that stood beside
the Blackstono River, at the head of the Pawtucket
jails, Patch slipped, and, seeing that he must go,
Jumped with all nis might into the raging torrent.
A few moments later ho landed safely some dis-
tance below the cataract. There was a deal of talk
about the exploit, then deemed a marvel, and
Batch took it into his head that jumping falls
would be a paying business. He tried it success-
fully in many places, but tried it once too
often. The motner of Samuel Patch survived
mm many years, living at Pawtucket in re-
spectable widowhood, and often relating to visl-
•ors the story of her son’s strange career
for many years the English Royal Yacht Squadron
nas been looked upon as the Jockey Club of the
„ ater, having all Its exclusiveness, but unfortu-
nately little of the spirit of the racing institutions,
ro Hy the Squadron Ensign has been the ambition
of many a yachting parvenu, but in vain. “ Shop-
ocracy” must remain behind the counter, say the
riuers °f the club. The Queen’s Cup, which is
f‘ v '®u from the public purse to encourage a public
* 8 limited to boats belonging to the Royal
i aent Squadron, which certainly is an injustice to
owners of flyers who are unable to get into such a
select set. Did the R.Y.8. comprise a fleet of ttrst-
facing vessels, there would not be much
tor complaint; but it is stated the Sleuth-
tho“’ ,th® last winner of the Cup, la the slowest of
itdng 40-tonners. It seems a queer way to
»J Jr 5? e yachting to allow such a vessel to carry
ns. .Queen's Cup, while the fastest yachts afloat
XI idly at their anchors. Is this “British fair
Captain Webh leaving- his family
destitute; and yet he never earned less than £1500
a year. A public subscription is being'arot up, of
fou'-se. It wasn’t Mrs. Webb’s fault. It’s a curious
ey «T‘ lerall y do leave their families
destitute, these athletes.
A Good Old-fashloued Steeplechase.
In the old sporting days of tho colony, before, in
fact, the branches had been lopped off to form
\ ictoria and Queensland, there used to be some
good cross-country races, over any fair piece of
ground that afforded natural fences; and among
the colonists of those times were many good
amateurs, who knew right well how to handle a
horse ever the sticks. Barwon Park and Five Dock
were frequently chosen for these events ; and
among the names of gentlemen riders handed
down as having successfully sported silk are those
of Mr. John Jardlno and Mr. Frank Stephen, the
former of whom, years ago, changed the pigskin
for the duties of Police Rhadamanthus in the
Northern colony, while tho latter went to Mel-
bourne, where he ever since has been practising as
a highly popular solicitor. He (Mr. Stephen) rode
Slasher in a race against Mr. Dalmahoy Campbell’s
Block, at Five Dock, an etching of which the late
Captain Scott, P.M., published in one of his sport-
ing magazines. The jumping business died away
to nothing, after
“ The days of the sporting Fitzroys
until steeplechasing over stiff post-and-rail fences
had taken a firm hold in Victoria, when it was re-
vived hero; but, for very many years, there has
not been a good tussle over the natural country
until one came off on the 15th of last month (Sep-
tember), at the Wallsend meeting of the Northern
Hunt Club; and as Mr. Edward Terry, one of the
keenest rud truest disciples of Nimrod I know,
has kindly given me a pencil sketch of tho course
run over, a short account of the race needs no
apology for being a trifle late in the day.
The piece of country chosen has since been suffi-
ciently measured to show that it was something
over live miles in extent, and contained thirty-nine
or forty fences, several of these being raspers, and
some few over five feet high, besides which were
water-jumps scattered here and there. Anyone
who has followed the “spotted beauties ” during
the past couple of seasons need not be told that
the Wallsend country is the stiffest and most
difficult to negotiate in the limits of tho Nor-
thern Hunt ; and I’m told there are no more
“ convincing ” obstacles than those the nags
encountered at the back of the stand in the
last round of this event. To explain the accompany-
ing sketch. The horses started at the top of the
straight running, and ran along the line dividing
the two portions of the ground each marked A,
following on round the lower portion marked B,
up past the entrance gate, and then ran in front of
the stand where the treble had to be jumped. This
piece of work was performed twice, and on going
past the entrance gate for the third time the
horses left the course proper, and went i ound the
upper portion marked B, taking the big fences at
the back of the stand; then, returning on to tho
line along which they started, they once more took
the fences round tho lower portion B, and finished
up the straight at the regular winning post. There
were six starters, as given below, all having been
fairly hunted six times with tho N. H. C Hounds,
and Forest King, Syklark, and Pirate, had the
advantage of three well-skilled pilots, the first
being ridden by Mr. It. R. Morissett, than whom
we have no better horseman in the land, while
Mr. H. Lodge steered Skylark, and Pirate was
handled by his owner, Mr. John Mayo, junr. The
names of the other riders I have not. Forest King
was the favourite, having had tho benefit of my
old friend Mr. Matt Scott’s final polish; but as Mr.
Morissett had been ill, and even confined to bed
for some days previous to the race, it was feared
he might not be able to last home over such a long
course, and on a horse that wanted lots of riding.
However, both horse and man ran up to their best
form, though the latter had to be almost carried
in to weigh, and oould scarcely dismount without
assistance. Skylark was also in rare buckle, and
had many friends. Forest King made tho running
from the jump, until turning into the straight
after the first r und, when ho refused, leaving the
lead with Skylark, who, however, was soon caught
again by tho East Maitlander, and Mr. Morissett
once more took tho cutting-out business in hand,
which he continued at during the rest of
the journey, despite some runs at him, it
being erroneously supposed ho would baulk
when collared. When the big woi’k had
been got over, at the back of tho
stand, Morton and Patchwork had literally fallen
out, while Diana’s chanoe was gone through re-
fusing; and Mr. Morissett led them along over the
last round at a good strong pace, eventually win-
ning by three or four lengths from Skylark, with
whom Lodge made a determined final effort in tho
straight without avail; and Mr. Mayo brought
Pirate home, third. Tiro race caused groat excite-
ment among the lookers on, as well it might, for it
was the first of the kind ever seen in the colony
by any one who witnessed it; and it is a satisfac-
tion to think, as I do very decidedly, that the best
as well as best conditioned horse, won. The race
needed a really game man' as well as horse, and
several good judges who were present were un-
animous in assuring me that nothing but the most
unflinching determination could have pulled Mr.
Morissett through, in his weak state of health.
The winner will be remembered as having been
brought to Randwick tor steeplechase business
some two years back by Mr. B. Lipscomb of
Monaro; but never ran up to the form expected
of him, if my memory serves me. He is by Kelpie
from a mare by Trump Card; and has been carry-
ing Mr. Superintendent Morissett and his brother
through the season with the N.H.C. Hounds.
Following are the starters and weights:— The
N.H.C. Handicap Steeplechase.— silver Cup,
value £35 (presented by Mr. Edward Terry, with 35
sovs. added by the Club.) Mr. R. R. Morissett ns bg
Forest King, aged, 13.3 (Mr. R. R. Morissett), 1: Mr.
H. Lodge’s gg Skylark, aged, 13.11 (Mr. H. Lodge),
3; Mr. J. Mayo’s jun. bl g Pirate. 5yrs, 11.3 (Owner),
8; Mr. H. Marshall’s Merton, 11.10; Mr. Robert-
son’s Patchwork, 11; and Mr. Harris’s Diana, 10.7,
also ran. Betting, 3 to 1 v. Forest King, 3 to 1 v.
Pirate, 4 to 1 v. Skylark and Merton. Mr. Marshall
was a good dual hurt by his fad with Merton,
Coming Events.
[BY PEGASUS.]
.pea' 1 approach of the Melbourne meeting,
with its three great events of the Spring - , If not of
the season, reminds us that on this Saturday we
shall have arrived within throe weeks of the
Maribyrnong Plate and the V.H.C. Derby; end it Is
time to look back upon the last two months’ per-
forraauces, and see, if we may, what significance
can bo attached to them for the future. Taking
first the running of two-year-olds we have seen at
the post, I will begin my “Coming Events” with a
few remarks on Maribyrnong Plates in genei - al,
and the one now engaging attention in particular;
for, after all, the two-year-old running at the
great Spring tryst of the V.K.C. exercises a larger
influence on the racing business of the next season
than any other factor in our turf system.
Moreover, there is an immense amount of
speculation, at prices satisfactory to backers, on
the premier youngsters’ nee of the year, which
events have proved, eversinceit was thrown open
to horses bred everywhere, to be the most
open affair on the whole year's programme.
This time, as usual, many stables of New South
Wales are to be found in the field, as it at present
stands for the big prize; and the colony is still
represented by a pietentlous array of our best
blood. The high-priced and most fashionable year-
lings distributed at last Autumn sales remained in
the hands of racing representatives of the old
colony; but these nave to meet, in the coming
contest, many equally as well bred, which were
sold to the sportsmen of Victoria and South Aus-
tralia, to say nothing of the best blood in those
two colonies which will be arrayed against us
from stables that are notoriously dangerous, not
only by reason of the excellent “goods” they have
to work upon, but also on account of the talent
and skill possessed by the artists to bring the
animals out. The grand studs of mares in the
hands of Sir Thomas Elder, of South Australia,
and Messrs. Pearson, Bryant, Wilson, Finlay, Gar-
diner, Chirnside, and others in Victoria, must make
us aware that it is only a question of time and con-
dition for them to produce flyers—a hypothesis
which admits of little doubt, when we look at what
the Grange stud of Queensland has turned out since
Epigram went Into the harem as major-domo. The
turfmen of this colony have been exceedingly for-
tunate in pulling off the Maribyrnong Plate, be-
sides having often furnished several colts and
fillies to finish among the first five; but so great
are the chances in a race of this kind, and so diffi-
cult is it to pick out the absolute winners from
Erivate trials, that the majority of our wins have
oen scored with horses that saw long odds at the
post, and there has hardly been an instance of the
prime favourite catching the judge’s eye first.
This is not to be wondered at, when the number of
starters is considered, as well as the many among
them that have never before faced a flag till Mr.
Watson takes them in hand; and wo are tne more
convinced what a lottery this event is, by casting
a thought back over the after doings of the win-
ners, and others near them. By no means unfre-
quently trainers have ma le mistakes between the
animals in their stables; and as often, something
backed at ridiculously short odds up to the
time of starting, has tailed signally to bo
near the front at the finish. In 1875, one
of the Messrs. Dakin trained Newminster,
while his brother brought out Aldinga; and
after more than one trial together, the latter
carried the confidence of both stakes to the post.
Newminster won easily. Next year Sydney made
its first score, when Sir Hercules Robinson had
Habena and Viscount running ; and the stable
confidence again went to the wrong one, for not
only did Lamond believe in the colt, but Johnny
Ramsey, who then wore the Governor’s first
colours, elected to steer him, and poor Willie Huey
made a comfortable win on the filly. On that
occasion, neither of the pair was thought to have
a chance: and, I believe, thirty or forty to one
could have been got about them coupled. In the
following year, Sir. do Mestre thought he had a
good thing, and that strong, resolute horseman,
Tom Brown, was sent for to ride Vulcan—who
won, after a tremendous finish with Roodee and
His Lordship; but Vulcan was not one of the very
prominent favourites. Nellie came next; and by
way of showing how fallacious time trials are, it is
worth mentioning that, although the filly won her
trial cleverly from four or five Sydney youngsters,
yet the time was not particularly good. Mr. Edward
Lee told me, himself, that from the way Nellie won
that trial he would have backed her to win a little
fortune, “ if he had not had the watch on her; ” but
the time not being good enough, he only won a
moderate stake when the filly won. Palmyra,
despite her being by Maribyrnong from Rich-
mond’s dam, was not a loading public favourite ;
but Geraldine was thought by nor owner to be in-
vincible, from having done a wonder with Trump
Yoss at his own distance ; and yet when Geraldine
and Otira were contesting every inch of that
finish, with (apparently) all their field beaten, Mr.
White’s filly ran past them as if they were at
anchor, and won in a canter. The next race ended
in a dead heat between Welcome Jack and
Lavlnia; and the two last Plates have been
brought here by Segenhoe, brother of Palmvra,
and Narina, sister of Habena and Geraldine. Most
of these winners have performed very moderately
after their two-year-old season, only Nellie having
reached Derby honours ; and Palmyra, unfortu-
nately, died before she had a chance of further
distinguishing herself, but all these races go to
prove that this is one of the most open races
Australian turf habitues ever see.
For this occasion we have left in Venefia, by
Malta—Vlctorine; The Bohemian, by Muribyrnong
—Nina; Nepicallina, by Goldsbrough — Camilla;
Gipsy’s Warning, by Gemma di Vergy—Gipsy
Girl; Lord Exeter, by Julian A venal—Tiara; Gar-
field, by Julian Avonal—Young Gossamer; lloncy-
dow. by Ooldbrough—Queen Bee; Buckingham,
by Chandos— Lady Chester; Ionia, by Gemma di
Vergy—lone; Coir, by Piscator— Cocoanut; King’s
Own, by Goldsbrough—Princess Alice; the Zephyr
colt, the Luna colt; the Jewel, by Goldsbrough—
Ida; Superba, own sister to Palmyra and Segeu-
hoe; lolantho, own sister to Kiugsdale; Largo, by
Maribyrnong—Guelder Hose; and Alicia, by Boo-
dee-Astarte; and it will bo hard if some of them
cannot give a good account of themselves. Among
Now South Wales bred ones that we have to meet
from outside our boundaries, The Broker, by
Goldsbrough—Melody, so far looks the most dan-
gerous, having already run well in South Aus-
tralia; but, what with the two-year-old prestige
attaching to the families of Coirs, Superba. and
lolanthe, and the performances, already, of King s
Own and Honeydew, I come to the conclusion
that the New South Wales division will be
very hard to beat. Then again, Gipsy Cooper,
half-brother to Gipsy’s Warning, did his best
performances in the Maribyrnong Plate, and at
the same meeting, and, for my part, I prefer the
Gemma strain to that of Barbarian, in such a case.
There’s no reason 1 know why King's Own
shouldn’t run as well as he did at Hand wick, or
Honeydew reproduce for us kis Ilawkesbury per-
formance; and, if either of the pair acts up to
what ho has shown us elsewhere, it may not be
necessary to look further for the winner.
There’s only one thing 1 fear to militate against
our chance, and that’s ihe “ watch 1” My experi-
ence tells me that owners and trainers of horses in
the colonies bring the watch far too much into
requisition; and nothing docs so much to knock
horses out as that exacting machine. I know well
many people, otherwise very correct on the science
or art of training, who arc never tired of putting
the watch on, until the nag gets stale, shin-sore,
and leg-weary; and there's no racenorse so easily
knocked out of time as a two-year-old. You can’t
bring a shin-sore two-year-old to the post worth a
straw, by the most careful “spelling;” but you
may throw an old horse off, and find him right
again in a few days. I’ve known plenty of races
won by horses which had been all to pieces,
8nd positively thrown clean out of work; and I’ve
Iways been of opinion that nothing won their
races for them save that their trainers couldn’t
administer the final polish. It's not many years
since the Melbourne Cup was won by a N.8. Wales
horse under just such circumstances. One great
reason of our two-year-olds going amiss, and so
often running badly, after once showing good
form, Is, I have very little doubt, being overdone
with work, and continually asked to beat the
“split- second, latest improved Benson;’’ and a
law? fallacious manner doing can’t be devised
by the greatest enemy of equines. “Once find
put your two-year-old has the pace he ought to
have, make him well, and trust him to show it:”
lor I don’t hesitate to say that at every distance
trom four furlongs to seven, or even a mile, ac-
cording to time of year, a good two-year-old will
beat any other age, and at great advantage
of relative weights in favour of the old
one. A two-year-old takes leSs work to
become fit to show what be can do;
and I vc come to the conclusion that ne runs up to
his true form ever so much better at that age than
ever after. At any rate, for every colt that I’ve
seen improve on hiS first doings in public there
have been many scores that become So much worse
aS *■?. l )e worthless, and without a doubt this
unsatisfactory result is materially assisted by “the
watch.” J
These things being so, I trust our youngsters will
receive gentle treatment from this till the day of
ru onlng’ in which case I expect to see Honevdew
and Kings Own take a lot et beating, for both are
V 2*,T last; and as a natural deduction from the
past, I look for a first-class performance from the
well-connected Superba. lolanthe, Gipsy’s Warn-
ing, Buckingham, and The Jewel. Mr. Bales has
m m"?, 16 ,, 0 ' very fair bids for this big prize,
with New Holland and Sunshine, and if all goes
well with Honeydew he will probably be wearer
this time.
Sydney Turf Club Rares.
sensible institution, the Sydney
lurr t lub, which, as our readers know, is an ama-
teur racing confraternity, holding its meetings
on Randwick, was especially unfortunate in the
weather tor its fixture on Saturday last, which all
good sportsmen must sincerely regret: and, indi-
vidually, f own to no small disappointment, having
promise 1 myself a careful stroll round the alter-
ations made during the last two years—it being my
opinion that such improvements can always be
summed up and put a value on best when work is
being done on them, and he who seeks information
can judge for himself with his own eyes. This,
however, was quite ultra vires on Saturday: for if
°P e xlr an k® e P under the lee of the grand stand,
at the northern end, the driving rain completely
prevented one making any use of one’s optics. So
Imust put off my remarks on the course and stands
ot to-day—and, indeed, on such a day, when nothing
pleasurable can be thought of or written, it Is fair to
coniine remarks to the bare racing. Considering the
effector such rough weather on thin-skinned race-
horses, Mr.Rlchards was more successful than could
have been hoped or expected in getting his fields
a way,making remarkably good starts in the two big
handicaps, and only being below par once—in the
two-year old race. The handicaps were well ad-
justed, the finishes close, and had there been fine
weather no better sport could have been wished.
The opening event produced a dead heat, and the
hurdle race was won only by about a nock. The
different events came off as follows:—
The day’s proceedings were opened with thj
favourite Plate, for which there were sixteen
malcontents, and in a drenching shower cl u;n a
field of seventeen faced the starter, ho ,ost r.o
time in despatching them on their journey o a
very even start. Bon Bon was quickest on a'is .cgs,
an <J , 1 £$, up the bil1 attended by Hypatia and Blue
and White, ban Jose being last away. Passing the
trainers stand, Bon Bon «as leading by two
lengths, and here The Flfer ran into second posi-
tion, closely attended by Venice and The Slave,
who were heading the ruck. Not much altera-
tion occurred round the turn, where Sports-
man ran out very wide. Halt way down the
rails Bon Bon was beaten, and The Slave
rushed to the front, but at the end of the stand
Soldier Boy, Envy, and Prima Donna came out,
and a grand race home was the result, the first
named pair the judge being unable to separate,
while Prima Donna was only beaten a short neck.
Then came, in a heap, The Slave, Sportsman,
Hypatia, The Flfer, and Bon Bon, the last two
being San Jose and Eva. The prize was divided.
I may state here that Envy is by Captivator.
Bight sported silk in the Hurdle Race, and this
also was run in the rain, Dundreary being spotted
by the cognoscenti us a good thing ; but neither
Cygnet and Uhlan were in want of friends.
Rejected ran off at the first hurdle, and Uhlan
took up the running at the start. A long descrip-
tion of the race is unnecessary, ns Uhlan led, at-
tended by Satellite and Cygnet, for a ralle and a
halt, when Dundreary began to crawl up, but the
effort cost him dear, and he was beaten at the
three furlongs. The leader had a two lengths’
advantage over the hurdle in the straight, whore
Byron, who had been patiently ridden behind, put
In his claim, and, catching Uhlan a hundred yards
from the post, the whips came out, and a splendid
finish between the pair resulted in a half-length
win for Byron, Dundreary being ten lengths away,
third. Satellite was a good fourth, 50 lengths in
front of Cygnet, the others walking in.
Raven was first of all made favourite in a field of
five for the Corinthian Cup; but Prima Donna had
most friends, and she started at even. The Deer
Jumped away first, but Mr. Betts soon took the
favourite to the front, and led all the way, winning
easily by three lengths from Raven, whose rider
showed bad taste by using bis whip too freely,
even when Prima Donna has passed the post. The
Deer was a bad third, four lengths in front ot
Crane, Uhlan being last.
With two or three exceptions, the nine
youngsters that were saddled up for the Sapling
Stakes were a moderate lot, and Lord Exeter was
made a great favourite of at 5 to 4, Mr. Smart’s
last purchase (Charming) being next in favour at 4
to 1. The race was spoilt by a bad start, Liberty
jumping away in front, with Havannah left at the
post. Mr. Mayne's colt continued his lead past the
three furlongs and round the home turn, where
Charming ran into second place, followed by Bargo,
Ionia, and Lord Exeter. Half way down file
rails Liberty had had enough, and Ionia showed
prominently, but died away again Immediately. A
hundred yards from home, Charming came out,
followed by Bargo, and after a desperate set-to,
the lormer was landed a clever winner by about
half a length. Lord Exeter, who got very badly
away, >\us beaten four lengths for second ; and
then came Liberty Ionia, and Venotla. The offi-
cial time was given ns 55$sec., hut this cannot he
true, unless it has come to pass that heavy showers
make a course wonderfully last.
The Selling Plate, as such goods generally do,
gave a great surprise over the utter disgrace of
the favourite Bayard, who went out with odds on
him. Bon Bon and Bayard wore In front for the
first five furlongs, when the favourite fell hack,
and Bon Bon continuing his lead, won rather
cleverly by half a length from Snnveller, who
beat Envy a length for second honours. Silver
Arrow was fourth, and the favourite, who ap-
peared to have l ad enougn after going six fur-
longs, absolutely last.
Stockctalo held his position as first favourite in
the “ Farewell ” at 4 to 1, and up to a point longer
the friends of Wallangra stuck right manfully to
him. Bristol had a few supporters, so had Albury,
Soldier Boy, Norman, and Rosinante. Mr. Rich-
ards didn’t keep them a great while at the post,
and at the word “go,” Twelve Years was quickest
away, cutting out the work to the trainer's stand,
attended by Rosinante, Phyllis, Wallangra, Envy,
and Primus. Phyllis and Envy headed Twelve
Years at the three-turlong post, and led into the
straight, but once within the rails they both cried
a go. At the distance Wallangra came out, fol-
lowed by old Twelve Years, and the issue seemed
between the pair, but Colley fetching Soldier Boy
up with a great rush on the outside, fairly wore
his leaders down, and won after a big struggle by
a neck from Wallangra, Twelve Years being a
similar distance away, third. Albert Victor was
fourth, followed by Stockdale, Hypatia, Bristol,
and Albury, Lord of the Lake and Primus fetching
up the rear.
For remainder of “Referee,” see Page 12,
In the Cairns and Herberton districts
grows a nut, the laxative properties of which
are simply phenomenal. The powers of this re-
markable nut are well known to old bushmen,
and their knowledge leads them to practise un-
seemly pranks on the unwary. Professor Ander.
son Stuart is going to try and make some Aus-
tralian additions to the pharmacopoeia. He might
ptart with this put.


SOCIAL.
Maequarie-street was quite en fete last
Tuesday—flags flying, and balconies croAvded to
see His Excellency drive np in state to “ open the
House.” The interior of the Parliamentary build-
ing contained a large number of spectators.
Ladles were in the majority, and their gay dresses
and smiling countenances presented an agreeable
contrast to the sombre garb (and, in some cases,
anxious faces) of the sterner sox. Many elegant
spring toilettes were visible. The “opening of the
House” is always a grand opportunity for the
fair and fashionable to display their ta?te in dress,
and one of Avhich they generally take full adAmn-
tage. This present occasion Avas no exception to
the rule, the attire being eA r en richer and more
varied than usual. A A r ery handsome dress of pale
grey broche and ottoman silk was among the
most noticeable; and in the same bitogory Avas a
sprightly brunette in crushed strawberry and
cream lace. Miss Stephen looked well, and so did
some other Misses. The Colonial Treasurer's eldest
daughter appeared in cardinal and black; and a
younger sister Avore a pretty dress of pink checked
zephyr cloth. Miss Q. Eagar looked nice in a neat,
black-braided costume, cream hat, parasol and
gloves to match. Miss E. Burdett Smith’s dress
was striking, and that of Mrs. C. J. Roberts equally
so. Lady lanes wore black, and Lady Hay, ditto.
A lovely robe avus one of delicate mauve sateen,
with pansies of a darker shade; another almost as
pretty Avas a cream ground with dark brown
leaves, and cardinal buns. Our “ opening dav ”
is on a very small scale Avhen compared Avith
that at Westminster, but still it is not with-
out its little pomp and dignity in miniature.
Nearly all the well-Avorn veterans Avere in their
accustomed places, but the tall form and snowy
head of “Sir Henry” Avere palpably missed. Sir
John of CTovelly looked vigorous as ever, and
“jolly as a sand boy”—whate that may be.
Although the Governor’s Speech was short, it is a
matter of doubt whether any but the gentlemen
listened to it. The ceremony oi declaring Parlia-
ment open Avas very soon over. Tho Ministers
looked jovial after their late feasting and country
air, and avcII fortified, after such a pleasant holiday,
to enter upon their arduous duties.
* * *
The last social of this year was held in
RandAvick Town Hall on Thursday, and not alone
the residents, but visitors also, seemed to recog-
nise “how blessings urlghten as they take their
flight,” for they all assembled in larger number
than usual. The music went smoothly for the
dozen dances, and as most present knew one
another, fitting programmes and forming sets was
all done Avithout loss of time. A fair young lady
from the West was more than usually engaging,
and the crushed strawberry brigade wilted belp-
lesslv’ before her. These socials, though unpre-
tentious, haA r e been much appreciated in Rand-
wick; for next Thursday, a soiree kept up till a
later hour, Avith supper, and special train, will
finally close tho dancing season there.
♦ ♦ *
The rain on Saturday partially spoiled
what would certainly have been the best Govern-
ment Printing Office Picnic yet held. Some daunt-
less peonle managed to get enjoyment, the dancers
especially, avIio had all the best of it; and the
dinner, at which about a hundred Avere present in
tho old pavilion, was not a bit deteriorated, but
the unAvelcome rain wofully spoiled tho pleasant
family parties which are always such a feature of
tho G.P.O. picnic. Tho Commodore made tAvo
trips to Cloutarf, loaded each time, and the little
Mary took a special complement down. Then the
rain came, and continued Avith more or less per-
sistency during most of tho day, interrupting the
sports, for Avhich a capital list had been printed
and a whole slower of prizes given. Dancing in
the new pavilion Avas the chief attraction, and
even those who didn’t do it found diversion in
watching tho neat figures flitting round and round
to the music of the Mercantile Band : while Mr. F.
Uewley carried out the duty of Master of Cere-
monies with great tact and civility. Besides the
list of dances, tAvo elaborate programmes were
issued, giving full information hoAv, when, or
Avhere everything was to be done. Soon after
I p.ra.. the dinner took place, Mr. G. S. Chapman
chairman, having near him Mr., Mrs., and Miss
Richards. Messrs. D. O’Connor, M.P., C. Potter,
Col. Raymond, &c. The chairman, in a speech
ornamental almost to the verge of poetry, pro-
posed the health of the “Government Printer,”
Avhose tame had been Heralded, Telegraphed and
Echoed too widely to need enlarging on. Mr.
Richards replying said he Avas satisfied with his
employes, and he believed,'.when not interfered
Avith by outsiders, they were satisfied too. Mr. M.
F. Cullen from the vice chair proposed the
“Guests,” and Mr. O’Connor announced that if
there avus any pride and sweetness in public life it
Avasinthe opportunity it afforded of recognising
1 he able efforts of real workers, and Mr. Richards
was one of them, Avho by mastery of tho details of
his work, by his sense of equity, and his intellectual
prestige upheld tho credit of bis deut. Col. Ray-
mond also responded “ Tho officers of the G. P.O.,”
proposed by Mr. E. G. Wdton, who mentioned also
the officers who lately Avent to open a Government
Printing Office, at Fiji, Avasanswored by Mr. Potter
for all, to the great relief of some dozen other in-
telligent officers, whose modesty, when they heard
their own names called on, prompted them to look
for the nearest door. “Tho Ladles” were then
attacked in a polished manner by Mr. Cullen.
Mr. G. Weaver responded for the fair sex,
giving special honourable mention to all co-
quettes and mothe.s-ln-law. The speeches Avere
very short. At 3 o'clock, a musical melange avus
given in the old pavilion, wi, h Messrs. W, M’Carthy
and A. W. Green managing, and Mr. A. Massey
accompanying, i he programme embraced several
songs and duets by Misses A. D Arietta, E. A.
Chapman, M. Cruickshank, M F. Thrum, S, Hose-
man A. Adams, and Messrs. W. M’Carthy, who Avas
warmly encored, A. Edward, S. Edwards, and W,
Wilcoxson. The idea of a concert (which Avas in-
augurated last year in tho open air) proved most
successful, and the pavilion Avas full to tho doors.
The GPU. picnic avus Avell organised and ex-
cellently carried out all through, the party reach-
ing town again early, and there Avas nothing bad
but the unlucky rain.
* * *
With the modesty which distinguishes
youth the Glebe Footballers simply called their
break-up dance a “ Reunion.” Perhaps this was
partly out of consideration for tho feelings of
some of the juvenile members of the club, avIio, no
doubt for adequate reasons, appeared in the neat
but unpretending “sac.” Except in this detail,
the affair was quite us good as a ball, for a card of
30 dances, good string music, a Callaghan supper,
and about fifty couple-, comprised all that was
needed for it. The portico balcony was a delight-
fully cool lounge for smokers, and cards in a
separate room Avore a resource for non-dancers
Mr J Collie took charge of the floor—Avhich sug-
gests the observation that it seems to be a rule, by
some singular perversity of lute, for the builders
of Toavn Halls to lay floors as if they Avere never in-
tended to bo danced on although it is certain before-
hand that they will be used for that purpose. The
boards of the Globe Hall are laid in Avhat dancers
call “the wrong way:” the Sydney vestibule Is the
stine and there are several other halls that might
have been made better than they are by just a
small amount of forethought -when first flooring
them. The vice-president of the club illumined
the ball AVitb the presence of himself, his wife, and
a trio of charming daughters—one m pale blue,
and one in a remarkably pretty white satin, trim-
med with Avhite blossoms. A married lady from
Alexandria Avore black broche and silver leaves; a
blonde from Glebe-road, cream nun s veiling,
decked with looped coloured ribbons; a visitor
from Rushcutter’s Bay-road blade and cardinal
sash, and a brown draped with ticru Avas a harmony.
A pair of pinks were quiet, and a pair of rich dark
blues as livelA r as lovely. A fine dancer kept up a
continual flash of colour as she whirled round In
bright cardinal and gold; a young lady from
Mitchell-street, in white satin, danced skilfully,
also a Glebe maiden in blue. A handsome New-
town brunette was In a stylish cream satin, with
crimson flower*, and long silk gloves on shapely
arms; and from Derweat-street came a tall young
lady exactly suited by a stylish black velvet and
figured satin bedecked with white roses, and whose
danclhg Avas admirable. It Avas about 3 o’clsck
before the Glebers put the brake on.
* * *
Next Tuesday, the annual pieuic of the
Builders and Contractors’ Association takes place
at the Sir Joseph Banks, Botany, special trams at
10 a.in. It is an important picnic, always largely
Attended by influential men, and there will be the
usual amusements for light hearted-youth.
♦ * *
To-day, there is the Produce Merchant’s
Protective Association picnic at Botany. Young
Australian Band ; busses at 10 from Haymarket,
and trams any time.
* * *
We are asked to point out that visitors’
tickets are issued for the Bowing Club ball to-
morrow (Friday) in the Parramatta Town Hall,
and dancing begins at 8.30. First train to Sydney
in the morning at 10 minutes to 5.
* * ♦
The complimentary picnic to Mrs. Hamp-
son, having been postponed from the preAious
Saturday, owing to the wretched weather, took
place last Friday at Clontarf, wtien the weather
was also inclement; and the awkward day resulted
in a small attendance. It need scarcely be said
there Avere no fantastic feet in the pavilion, the
amusements being mostly rounders, twos and
threes, bingo, and lloAver gathering. Clambering
over rocks is not good for soles. A “ religious con-
ference” was held, and several picnicers responded
to Mrs. Hampson's invitation to "testify.” The com-
mittee tried to arrange the picnic for a Saturday,
hut found it impossible to do so.
# • *
Last Friday evening the Newtown Private
Assembly closed their season with a ball at thp
Oddfellows’ Hall, Newtown. Over 80 couples pre-
sent. Dancing commenced at 8.30, a id continued
till nearly dawn, Avhen the youth and beauty
wended home, after finishing 39 dances. Mrs.
Forster looked charming in the Balmain Rowing
Club colours, and Miss Bertha Lewis as Sunflower
danced daintily. A Redfern lady was Rosiua, the
Misses Cameron represented Folly and Swiss
Peasant, Miss Ada Smith was Morning, and several
gentlemen were in character as Midshipman, Mili-
tary Officer, Dick Deadeye, and Bicyclist. Mrs.
Morphett Avore a beautiful Avhite satin and moss
roses, and Mrs. Heden ruby velvet and pink satin.
Miss Freeman was attractive in blue satin and
silv.-r, Miss Green in blue. Miss Barden in fawn.
Miss Munro in black. Miss Baldock in cardinal and
cream. Miss Wisdom in brown, Miss Bond in pink,
Miss Vial in cream—and that exhausts the paint
box at present. But, of course, there were many
other charming ladies, who danced to the quartet
of music provided, and considered themselves
indebted to Messrs. Wildman and Freeman for the
many pleasant evenings—not too Avild or free—
Avhioh they had arranged during the season.
* f •
A private letter states that Mrs. Harry
Woods is returning to Sydney, and with her is her
brother, Mr. Percy Stubbs, (late of West Maitland)
who has been polishing his musical education.
• • •
To-clay the bazaar opens in the ball-room
at GovornmentJiHouse with music and eclat and so
on. Wo intend t) go there and buy a lot of things
avc don’t Avant, so that the Melanesians shall get
all they do.
Miss Pedley’s benefit concert last Aveek was
a brilliant one, and the Protestant Hall was gay.
The benefleiaire Avorked hard, as she sang two
solos, played violin, conducted two choruses and
accompanied one. Herr Vogrich and Mr. Walker
contributed, and a trio of violin, ’cello, and piano
was good, and Mrs. Fisher’s ballad powerful.
Waits were rather long . .The last Floral Assembly
at Pomona for this season Avill take place next
Wednesday, 17th inst.... Professor West’s monthly
Cinderella party to-night, in Tattersall’s Hall,
Avhere nonpareil Avaltzers will gather —The ex-
pected marriage of a well-known young- lawyer,
who went home for the purpose, has been delayed
by the lady having, in a most maUapropn. s manner,
met with an accident while dancing at her sister s
Avedding. There wasarusscl on the floor when she
fell From a concert programme, we find Coota-
mundra people are satisfied with 35 performances
in one night, for Is. And the singers hare the
funniest names we ever saw; it’s quite poetical to
pair them off in this way : Large Kiches, Gray
Woods, Healy Bootes, And the mighty Murdoch is
rehearsing as corner man for a Minstrel shoAV —
On the 34th Sept., an interesting wedding occurred
at Coonamble, Avhen Mr. Hugh O’N. Macdonnell
was joined to Miss Ellen Mary Grogan, who Avorea
silver-grey silk, and orange blossoms. She was
escorted to church by Mr. D. D. M’Mahon, the
squire of Tooloom, and her bridesmaid was Miss
Emma M’Cullough, a petite in cream and ruby
lace, The wedding breakfast at Alderman M’Cui-
lough’8 was a large one, the officiating minister—
the Rev. Father M'Grath—taking the chair, and
most of the leading residents being present.
Honeymoon trip via Rug-gil and Narrabri to New-
castle.... In the Masonic Hall, Parramatta, on the
3nd instant, three Avell-known families gave a
joint party (Harpers, Hughes, and Coates), and
over a hundred Avere present. Vocal and instru-
mental music, other pastimes, and dancing helped
to carry out this very sensible idea of co-operative
entertainment. Oa Friday, in the Town Hall, a
Benedictine ball was given by some of the resi-
dents. It was exclusive, and managed in first-
class style. Dresses, music, and tarts all sweet
Mr H. M. Keightley, who Avas Police Magistrate at
Moruya, and a sort of Nimrod in private life, Avas
banqueted on removing to Albury. Mrs. Keightley
received a gold bracelet from the Aveeping ladies
of the district — It is said the late Mr. \V. Tom, of
Bathurst, avIio came out in 1823, avus tho first man
Avho took a four-Avheeled vehicle oA r er the Blue
Mountains, the first white settler Avho took his
family across the Macquarie, and the first man to
work bullocks in the yoke in the colony. He was
93 years old... The Hon. F. M. Darley, Q.C., Avent to
London, in the Clyde, on Friday — A Literary Club
was opened at Adelaide on the 5th inst. Mr. Ernest
Favenc, explorer and author, made a speech
The Sydney Football Club wind up the season by a
picnic to Chowder, on Saturday. German band;
steamer at 13 and 3 o’clock There is to be a
Spelling Bee, Newtown, 31st October; good prizes.
— Cootamundra Athletic Club closed the season
with a night of dancing, in the Assembly Hall, on
the 3Sth uit— Fancy Fair in aid of North Goulburn
Con vent turned in £900. Some squeezing there
At Parkes Mr. A. Townsend married Miss A. B.
Cohen, in Avhite satin, and they came to Sydney.
The charming bride, in spite of her initial's,
could never be called “as plain as A.B.C.”
“ Lord \V. Melville ” being a passenger to Austra-
lia by the John Elder, society prepares lor a series
of genuflexions — A round of festivities at Cobar
culminated in a banquet and ball to Mr. James
Colley, of the local bank, transferred to Queens-
land. Unlimited champagne, and a fifty-guinea
Avatch — A return ball will be given on the 1st
November to Mr. and Mrs. Sturt, of the Went-
worth Hotel, Homebush. They gave a liberal one
on opening a fortnight back — Last Thursday, the
annual wayzegoose of Gibbs, Shallard’s firm
occurred at Clontarf. Sports, dancing, axohery,
and toasts at the City Catering Co.’s dinner table.
— Mr. and Mrs. Soiling gave a large party to mark
the opening of new Commercial Bank promises at
Casino At Singleton, Mrs. Dangar’s family and
friends gave tableaux vivants for the benefit of
the Mechanics’ Institute— Mrs. E. B. Daly, Avho
was postmistress at West Maitland for thirty years
! and lately retired, Avas presented Avith £100 testi-
monial and a beautiful address by the townspeople.
Next Wednesday a plain and fancy ball takes
place at Liverpool, in connection with R.C. school.
And the same night a similar affair Avill excite
sober Penrith, in Temperance Hall. ..The annual
excursion of the Robertson coach factory was
postponed for tAvo months in consequence of a
death sir Anthony Musgrave, the neAv Go-
vernor, is expected to arrive in Queensland at
the beginning of November, in the Sorata—
| Melbournejgymnasts and bicyclists seem to shine
j in the ball-room. The Turn-Verein lately gave a
I gymnastic exhibition, followed by a ball. We cer-
j tainly think, in the case of bar tricks, they are
better performed before the ball begins than at it.
A Ballarat gentleman and his Avlfe admired mus-
cular development so much that they gave all the
local gymnasts a ball As a result of the return
ball to the Mayor and Mayoress of Melbourne,
Mrs. Dodvshun Avas presented Avith a silver dessert
service of 190 oz , &c Wilcannia Hospital ball,
on the 38th September, very good, Indeed. Over a
hundred present, and most of the edibles given by
| good Samaritans. A Rowing Club ball is to folloAV.
On the 3rd, a return dance, of an enjoyable and
popular kind, Avas given to Mayor Hilder of Manly,
in the Ivanhoe Pavilion, Avhich avus elaborately
prepared: many visitors from Sydney Avent
Ea ci- since the natiA'e 1- rds first danced with their
j dusky Dulcineas under the umbrageous myalls,
! Dubbo has been the homo of corroborees, annual
j and othei-Avlse. The latest one Avas last Aveek, in
: the Masonic Hall, Avhen fancy drosses were few
but gorgeous, and the object of the ball Avas
“ melting charity.” Miss Bowen in sea-green satin,
Miss Maeder in cream forget-me-nots, a tine dancer,
Misses O’Gorman, M’Kenna, and Motfatt, were the
stars Avho formed the southern cross in the Dubbo
sky that night.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Fancy Bazaar (Govt. House) Oct. 11
Produce Merchants’ Prot. Assurance Plcnlc..Oct. 11
Bachelors’Private Assembly (Nithsdale).. .Oct. 13
Parramatta Bowing Club Ball Oct. 13
Sydney Football Club Picnic (Chowder
Bay) Oct. 13
Redfern Football Club Dinner Oct. 13
Builders and Contractors’ Picnic (Botany).. .Oct. 16
Sydney Musical Union Concert (Protestant
Hall) Oct. 16
Plain and Fancy Ball (Penrith) .Oct. 17
Uandwlck Soiree Oct. 18
Flower Show and Bazaar (Exhibition) Oct. 18
Ivanhoe Assembly Annual Ball (Town Hall)..Oct. 19
Fancy Fair opens (Town Hall) Oct. 33
Kobt. Burns Lodge Masonic Picnic (Botany)...Oct. 31
Return Ball to Mr- Sturt (fjomebqsh) Nov, 1
Spdney, 9th October.
Deak Belize, —It would have been pitiful had
Herr Vogrich been allowed to leave Sydney thint
mg us a lot of barbarians, incapable of appreciatin'
ti? 0 ! 1 T 8 Ju And so T was vetT 8‘ lad that even at
the last of his six concerts there Avas a good alter/
dance. Better late than never. Miss Rees’s sin/fnJ
was perfectly delightful. “ Noi l,” especially wa
exquisite. One Avould have to go a very long w«v
to hear anything siveeter. The " Shadow inn
from “Dmorah,” was also beautifully sang mL
Rees was presented Avith a basket of lovely n‘owp«,
also several bouquets, one decorated with Uirw
streamers of Australian blue, and was encored fnr
each of her songs. Herr Vogrich played
his own compositions. Of these I liked th/
‘‘Staccato Caprice” best. It is beautiful, but seen/
very difficult. I don’t think any but a good
piamste could play it. Mr. Hallewell samr
Schubert’s “ Wanderer” splendidly. He also sang
in a duet from the “ Huguenots” Avith Miss Hep*
Everybody laughed heartily Avhen a large hand
some dog followed Mr. Hallewell on to the stagp
before the duet commenced. Miss Rees wore pink
satin, Avith a flounce of beautiful Avhite lace acrosi
the front. There Avas nothing remarkable in the
costumes of the ladies present, most of them being
walking dresses. I saw one very handsome pink
satin, Avith white lace, and a prettv Avhite nun’s
veiling, trimmed Avith white satin; also, two fawn
coloured satins, quiet and tasteful.
As the newspapers say that the attendance has
been good at the Art Society’s Exhibition since it
was opened, I supp se people must drop in there
during the day at different times, for I have been
twice to see the pictures, and there were not more
than ten persons present on either occasion. Some
of tho landscapes are well worth seeing; indeed, i
should like to have them always near enough to
look at. One knows very well, without much
knowledge of art, which among the pictures are
truest to nature, and anybody with half an eye can
see that the colouring in some of the landscapes is
quite impossible—nobody ever saw skies of such a
blue. Or the flower pieces, 1 liked “ Primroses”
by Mrs. Alfred Williams, and a “Bignonia Aus-
tralis” by Mrs. Gerald Halligan, particularly the
latter. Mrs. Phillips’s paintings on porcelain arc
very pretty ; Miss Devine’s birds of beautifully
rich colouring. The portrait which seemed to me
most natural was a miniature of the youngest son
of the late Hon. W. Forster, by Mrs. Stoddard.
Saturday Avas not a day for delicate Spring
dresses on the Block. Only Winter costumes were
to be seen, and I had barely just time to notice a
gretty fawn-coloured satin wilh stripes of broad
lack velvet down the skirt, and two or three
handsome black broches, when down came the
rain. For the rest of the day only ulsters were to
be seen. Talking of ulsters, I suav an advertise-
ment in the Hekalp, lately, tor a “ brown lady's
ulster.” The lady avhs probably a Marquise from
the Mulga country. The basket-work hats, which
are A-ery pretty, s.-em coming into favour. I have
seen several lately. All the fashionable bonnets
are tied with strings of narroAv ribbon.
At a dance, lately, a young lady Avore such a
pretty dress—the bodice Avhite satin, with flowers
hand-painted on it (by the wearer), and a skirt of
white net. This same young lady had just painted
a very handsome screen for the tire-grate. It was
divided into panels, with a pretty little picture in
each panel. Another pretty dress was of black-
satin and net, the skirt trimmed with pink ostrich
feathers. There Avere several of net, dotted with
chenille. The pink ones look like measles, 1
think.
The Protestant Hall Avas crowded on Saturday
evening. The proceeds of the concert were to be
devoted by Messrs. HalUnvell and Huenerbein to
the Packer Fund, and there must have been agood
deal of money taken. By the Avay, Avhenever 1 am
in the Protestant Hall, I keep fancying that it
might bo so called because it protests against being
the only hall with any pretence to suitability for
concerts in Sydney. Catholic (Avhich means uni-
versal, 1 believe) Avould be a much more appropri-
ate name, considering its use is so catholic. But
about tho concert. Madame Rosalie Mcrz sang
the “ FloAver Song ” from “ Faust,” also the duet
“ Sainted Mother,” Avith Miss Marie St. Clair,
beautifully. In tho second part, Madame Merz
gave a lovely song Avith violin obligato, Herr
Francik playing tho violin accompaniment. Miss
bt. Clair’s voice sounded even better than I haAC
hoard it. on this occasion. It Avas splendid in ‘ I<>
Romeo.” Some gentlemen amateurs (members oi
the Liedertafel) gave several part songs— 1 When
Evening’s TAvilight,” “Absence,” and ‘ Die
Happier Land,” Avhich all Avent Avell, especially the
first. Two of Charles Packer's compositions were
sung: a tenor solo from “David” by Mr. Hindi),
and the “Penitent Thief” from the “Crown ot
Thorns.” Mr. Hinchy’s solo was beautifully sung,
but the “Penitent Thief” seemed tohaveacoiu ;
Mr. Huenerbein played a paraphrase of “Faust,
and an exceedingly pretty arrangement it was.
Herr Francik played a violin solo, and was obligea
to return and doav, as no encores Avere permittee-
Mr. Hallewell’s German drinking song Avas verj
fine. Six amateurs played the “Fatinitza March
on three pianos. One of the amateurs Avas a htue
boy not more than seven. They Avere, I beueiv,
pupils of Mr. Huenerbein. and played charmingly
The Thompson Premier Band played an overture.
“ In Memoriain,” and the “Dream Faces wan*,
part of Avhich they sang. Perhaps the uanu
Aveather had affected tho Thompson Premier Uanu ■
instruments Avitli the bronchitis, for they were a
rather hoarse, and some decidedly out pi •
There Avere some ladies present, Avho would ueau
listen themselves to the music, nor allow anjo
near them to hear. They recalled to my min<i _
epigrammatic ansAver of the midshipman, m -
ryatt’s novel, when asked about the habits „
certain savages: “ Customs nasty, manners nom•
Very feAv ladies to hear the Nelson Baml in tju
Botanic Gardens on Monday afternoon, but a g
many children. Nothing in costumes at all rem
able. It seems strange that so feAV seem
about hearing such good music. Such a » •
place to sit and listen to it, too, The Garde -df
looking lOA’ely just noAV. There is a fine sn
roses.
Good-bye now.
Yours,
MAB.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOLNJ
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, %-
Coilgh, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of y this
flueuza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest,
Balsam. Excellent for children. ' cWr ant
reliable in Croup. This Is the bMtexpe
now in use, relieves by dissolving the
phlegm. A single dose quieten* and
a small bottle often cures. Ask f°* ' me tlme*
and get it; spurious imitation* at® 80
offered.
AT THE PROTESTANT HALL.


tV. H. PALING ,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
5 •-
m
m
m
—= - f _ ~ :' - -~ --
T --x
&¥^
EASY TERMS SYSTEM IS? INSTRUMENT.
XX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX X X
XXX X XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
JUST LOOK IN OUR WINDOWS XX
TO-DAY XX
for the very best Show anywhere XX
of STRAW GOODS, XX
also of HOSIERY. XX
HORDERN BROTHERS, XX
311, Pitt-street. XX
EW GOODS IN THE MILLINERY XX
DEPARTMENT.
N
XX
XX
XX Untrimmed Hats, commencing - at 6d XX
XX each, including all the new and fashion- XX
XX able shapes. We h ive has many as 500 XX
XX Hats of a shape, and 300 different shapes. XX
XX Amongst them are the Empress, Duch- XX
XX ess, Queen, Brighton, Gem, Alexandria, XX
XX Carliugford, Rosalind, Princess, Spring, XX
XX Sunbeam, Countess, and hundreds of XX
XX otheis. XX
XX XX
XX In Trimmed Millinery we have him- XX
XX dreds of different styles, in every shape XX
XX and material. Our 10s. (5d. Trimmed XX
XX Bonnets are admitted to surpass all XX
XX Sydney at 15s. We have over 100 Trim- XX
XX med Bonnets at 10s 6d. XX
XX OUR GUINEA BONNET IS REALLY XX
XX A GEM. XX
XX We make a speciality of our Guinea XX
XX Bonnet, and it bears comparison with XX
XX others. XX
XX MILLINERS’ BONNETS at 35s. XX
XX We employ first-class French and XX
XX English milliners, with over 100 assist- XX
XX ant milliners. XX
XX XX
XX The Flower Department embraces all XX
XX the flowers you can think of. Beauti- XX
XX ful new fruit sprays and wreaths, XX
XX beautiful new flower sprays and XX
XX wreaths. XX
XX All the new tints in Feathers, Xy
XX In Tips and Long Flats. XX
XX Beads, Buckles, and Hat Ornaments XX
XX in endless variety. XX
XX XX
XX The Mantle Department is replete XX
XX with all the Newest Styles and Fashions. XX
XX SATIN BROCHE DOLMANS, FOUR- XX
XX IN-HAND, LACE and BROCHE XX
XX CAPES, LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S XX
XX DUST COATS, XX
XX SILK, SATIN, SATEEN, and PRINT XX
XX COSTUMES. XX
A good Sateen Print Costume at 4s 6d. XX
XX
XX
XX
XX The Parachute Department this season XX
XX is beyond description. We only men- XX
XX tion that we have pretty Parachutes for XX
XX girls at Is; and that we have Ladies’ XX
XX Parachutes from Is lid to 40s, in sateen, XX
XX satin, broche, moire, lace, lace-trimmed, XX
XX plain silk, brown silk, black silk, Zen- XX
XX nella, Brazilian, gilt and plain ribs— XX
XX direct from the manufacturers.
XX
XX WE BUY AT HOME
XX FOR READY MONEY.
XX
XX Therefore we can
XX SELL to you
XX at
XX THE LOWEST,
XX THE VERY LOWEST, PRICES.
XX
XX HORDERN BROTHERS,
XX 311 Pitt-street,
XX Drapery Importers.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
LOVES. GLOVES. GLOVES.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX ix —-
XX Our Glove Department is now com
XX plete with a very extensive variety of XX
XX novelties in every conceivable make XX
XX and colour, Just arrived, ex s.s. Lusi- XX
XX tanla. XX
XX Our 4-Button French Kid Gloves at XX
XX 3s lid arc unrivalled for perfection in XX
XX fit, durability, and cheapness. XX
XX We sell Calvat’s 1st choice Kid Gloves, XX
XX at least SO per cent, cheaper than any XX
XX other house in Sydney, and guarantee XX
XX them to wear well. XX
XX You can always obtain Bargains in XX
XX Gloves at HORDERNS’ in Pitt-street, XX
XX because the marv ellous development of XX
XX our lapidly-increasing trade in Gloves, XX
XX as well as every other branch of our XX
XX business, enables us to procure such XX
XX enormous quantities of goods direct XX
XX from the manufacturers, so that our XX
XX London and Continental Buyers are in a XX
NX position to keep us well supplied with X X
XX all the prettiest novelties the world can XX
XX produce at prices which defy competi- XX
XX tion. XX
XX N.B.—Country orders well attended to. XX
XX XX
XX HORDERV BROTHERS, XX
XX 311, Pitt-street. XX
XX XX
X XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX X X
X XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XX
PIANOS, ORCANS, MUSIC,
OEG-A.US,
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
IV. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.,
THE BEST MAKERS IN THE WORLD,
AT EXTRAORDINARY LOW PRICES.
W. H. PALIN’ Or,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
HORDERNS
ON THE
ZBricfelleld. Hill.
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS in LADE CURTAINS.
I-ST" These Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers
LACE CURTAINS, 10A PRICES.
Ladies residing in the country can have forwarded to the nearest Railway Station, Free of Charge, a Set of Lace
Curtains. If you like the pattern which is represented in this engraving, cut it out, and we will forward exactly
the same pattern. See future advertisements for other patterns.
LACE CURTAINS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Irish Linen Table Damasks, to match the Curtains. Table Napkins. Linen Diapers. Embroidered Table Covers.
Mosquito Nets. Striped and Plain Window Union. Examine carefully the engravinsr of our
“LACE CURTAINS.”
cf.
*5
hefcA
i
Price: 12s. 6d., 15s., 17s. 6d. the pair.
ONE ONLY ADDRESS:-
BOYD’S
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OVER PALING’S),
IS NOW OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged by
Mr. B. All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
N.B.—BOYD (OVER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
L. E. HENDERSON, Manager.
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS,
I LACE CURTAINS I 668 BRICKFIELD HILL, j LACE CURTAINS (
S3P r " Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
Political Pionts
“ Silly Season ” gone again ;
Back they come, a motley train.
Some to make brave, honest laws,
Some to wag their tiresome jaws.
Some to fill their hungry maws,
Enter in the Senate doors—
Half of them but licens’d bores.
Sir Jack, the tender-hearted (who but the
sther day shone as the apologist of Davies), thinks
Lucas has been too roughly dealt with. His re-
mark to that effect raised not a half grain of
endorsement from the Parliamentary picnicers;
aelther will it raise further endorsement from the
general public, though here and there some fellow
-accustomed to find, with keen, discriminating
sight, black not so black, nor white so very white
-may give it as his opinion that the ex-National
Park trustee’s lams standi is all it should be.
The following is an extract taken from
“Mr. Moffatt’s Missionary Labours” “Mr.
Moffatt presented Makaba with a hat. He put the
hat upon his head, as he was told to do; but this
did not satisfy him. He could not see it there over
his eyes, so he speedily took it off again, and
placed it upon the head of one of his attendants,
where he could enjoy the sight of his new treasure.”
We know a politician on whose head a community
has placed a dunce's hat. How elated he would be
could he, like Makaba, put his hat upon the head of
some other fellow, aad enjoy the sight of his old
treasure!
The Gladstone Government made (from a
missionary point of view), a huge blunder in can-
celling the police-magistrate’s annexation of New
Guinea. That has been indicated by a variety of
personages, but Earl Derby’s contempt for their
combined influence remained unmoved. Now,
however, the noble lord, who sits at home in ease,
is about to be made sensible of a pressure which
his hereditary doggedness, and the science he calls
statecraft, will not enable him to bear up against.
Clones (Vic.) has held a meeting on the subject.
Clunes says “We must annex New Guinea.”
Chines says “ We must annex the New Hebrides.”
Clunes says “ We must annex all we can.” Clunes
wired these resolutions to MTlwraith and Service,
and sat breathlessly annexing grog until the reply
came. M’llwraith replied, “Tell Mr. Clunes I’m
mortal glad to enclose his commands with my next
despatch to the Earl. I suppose I was right in add-
ing a note to the effect that Mr. Clunes is one of
the biggest run-holders in Australia.” Service
replied, “Tell the inhabitants of Clunes that, as
Premier, I’m willing to be liberal, but I’ll only
stand half the expense of that last fuddle.” But
11 is said that when the Mayor of Clunes showed
the reply of Sir Thomas M’llwraith, Service went
—well, in the classic language of the Y.ctorian
State schools—completely off his chump. How-
ever the demands of Mr. Clunes are now on the
sea, and soon will lie like lead on the stomach of
the refractory Earl.
The position of a Tasmanian M.L.C. has
some disadvantages. The other day the Council
threw out the Railway Bill. Those of the majority
who represent Northern districts met a reception
in Launceston which may induce them to pause
before again opposing a measure on which their
constituents have set their hearts. As the train
containing the Honorables John Scott and F. W.
Hrubb neared the platform it was met by a crowd
ot live thousand persons, foaming like the shades
who are condemned to wander on the wrong side
nf Styx unable to reach the Elysian fields
beyond. The mob's yells were diversified by
a Powerful brass band with a limited pro-
gramme—the “ Rogues’ March,” played with a
Kekless determination that showed how much
could be made of a simple melody when the per-
formers’ hearts go with their wind. The lion.
•L Scott was the first to alight, and the crowd
opened a passage for him like soldiers when an in-
corrigible has to be drummed out. Through this
opening, strewu with abuse, threats, objurgation,
Blasphemy, and expectoration, he passed to his
carriage. But the chief honours were reserved
ior the Hon. Grubb. When he appeared, it seemed
if the Lord of Misrule had suddenly descended
on Launceston. His statement that “ he would be
nappy to meet the electors and justify his vote”
was received with a Babel of howls and exe-
punctuated with rotten eggs and
road-metal. Then he retired carriagewards,
accompanied by embryonic fowl in various
of development and aroma. But ho was
«na w escape so easily. His carriage was mobbed,
“pn back to the train he rushed, pursued by
Troches as discordant as those that induced Tara
.-banter to sign the pledge when he got home
®cter his night’s carouse. Then he got under a
JS*”* and the engine ran back some distance. To
timTJa 6 Platform the Superintendent of Police
woo tkc hose on the crowd; but as the water
as dirty, they stood their ground. This should
JL a warnin k to the authorities to have clean
jarer on hand when they wish to disperse a mob.
‘innately, Mr. Grubb was safely dropped at
Iimh .• onards - A procession was then formed,
tKoi u by a hearse, and the citizens returned to
VwT .° uses > the band playing the “ Dead March.”
PcHtics re aie drawbacks even in Tasmanian
• • ♦
of'rf V th tells a story how Queen Margherita
oir k V> was checked in her liking for chatting
use i 8 ?*! with little girls. One ot her questions
ilear„- be “ And what is your father, mv little
fanL ’■ A mite °f seven proudly replied “ My
omut i 8 ?,_ttepublican,” and the Queen has since
DenS ed that particular question. These royal
niPnt. 118 *' 68 hke to imagine that republican senti-
ments are not spreading
a tpp y 9 r Harris’ term of office is approaching
Ho hi^ n ?i ion ' and not a particularly happy one.
are k/i “? at some ot the municipal departments
uffir-iJi of and muddle, that some
not wvf “Perquisites,” and that things are
the the y seem. Some of his officers are, on
since tv. er -hand, understood to assert that, ever
has—t, Varies v. Harris imbroglio, the Mayor
all thn ? ut mildly-ceased to smile. Here are
aad it eleme nts for an aldermanic Donnybrook;
Will if ® e ®5 as that nothing but a general Hare-up
clear the municipal atmosphere.
Det/hf, 8 Am> bitos, beetles, insects, roaches, ants,
ont tri mice, gophers, jack-rabbits, cleared
Sydnof. Rough on Rats,” Moses, Mess & Co,.
' General Agents.
Two lieutenants in the Navy were recently
dismissed the Service for using- blackguard lati-
guage and lying. One of them, however, has a
brother who is equerry to the Prince of Wales.
So the pair have been re-instated, and the one with
the brother actually given an employment over
the heads of hundreds of senior officers who had
never been charged with any sort of misconduct.
The Radical papers in England have the shocking
bad taste to term this favouritism.


DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
When the House of Lords, on division,
threw out the Bill passed by the Commons, to
abolish pigeon-shooting matches, the bench of
Bishops was almost untenanted. A London demo-
cratic 1 paper comments thus on the fact:—” On one
side they were afraid, by voting against the
measure, of offending the Princess of Wales; and,
bn the other. theii'Own interests were so identified
with those of snorting squires and pigeon-shoot-
ing noblemen, that it might be dangerous to incur
their displeasure. And so the right reverend
rooks steered a middle course, by taking flight
when the question came to a division.”
At a meeting of trustees of the Man-
chester New College, London, which is conducted
on the principle of freely Imparting theological
knowledge, without insisting on the adoption of
S articular theological fdoctri’es. The Rev. Dr.
tartineau delivered, on behalf of the College, an
eulogy on the late Bishop Colenso, in the following
terms:—“ We desire to record our high apprecia-
tion of his work as a Biblical scholar during the
last twenty-one years, our deep respect for his un-
swerving love of truth, and his candour, calmness,
and patience in controversy; for his faithful
labours and human sympathies as a missionary of
Christ; and our admiration of his repeated and
solemn appeals for the removal of ecclesiastical
tests, which enervate the thought and trouble
the conscience of the clergy, cripple the advance
of true learning, and intercept the natural union
of Christian minds in love for each other and piety
to God.”
“ W. Ebor,” that’s the Archbishop of
York, in August last addressed his Archdeacons in
the following safe way :—“ During the present un-
settled weather there is considerable anxiety
among the people as to the coming harvest. I
would suggest that the clergy should use in their
public services the prayer for fair weather ; and
that they should in their pulpit teaching direct
their congregations on the one hand to acknow-
ledge before God His great goodness in the many
gifts which we enjoy, and on the other hand, to
express their trust In Him for the continuance of
His goodness and mercy.” The Archbishop evi-
dently believes with the Dean of Clolsterham in
holding a Judicious middle course, and doing
nothing emphatically. One would almost think he
was “ poking eborac” at his flock.
Just now tbere’s no getting away from
Presbyteries. The House of Commons has been
so unlucky as to incur the displeasure of the
Presbytery of Perth and Aberdeen Original
Seceders, that body having unanimously resolved
to crush the “ grand old man” with a memorial,
protesting against “ the late violation of the Sab-
bath, by the House of Commons encroaching upon
the hours of that day for the dispatch of Parlia-
mentary business.” It is not stated whether these
“ Original Seoeders” have demanded the resigna-
tion of the Gladstone Ministry. Possibly the matter
will be referred to the Melbourne Presbytery, who
will, no doubt, deal with the “ heretic” as he
deserves. Mr. Gladstone was entirely responsible
for the House sitting until twenty minutes past
two in the morning of Sunday, Aug. 19th. For the
futu're he will be known as “the wicked old man.”
George Jacob Holyoake thus wrote to Sir
Vernon Harcourt with respect to the imprison-
ment of Messrs. Foote and Ramsay, on conviction
for blasphemy “ Blasphemy is the sin of all
sects, but only punished in the weakest. There is,
however, one thing more repulsive than blas-
phemy, and that is outrage. I do not pretend that
outrage is either undeflnablo or unpunishable
under impartial Jaw. Outrage, as they who com-
mit it know full well, is when any one Imputes to
others a conscious infamy of belief which they do
not hold, and Intends to shock or irritate them,
regardless whether it insults and pains them or not.
This ia outrage, and in the interests of society and
good feeling should be discouraged—equally
whether committed by the few against the many,
or by the many against the few. Yet this outrage
is constantly committed by Christian preachers
and writers against Freethinkers, and the law
never steps in to protect them. Since, therefore,
the law does not deem in its duty* to defend the
few against the many, it is not needful or seemly
that it should be employed to defend the many
against the few.”
John Tebbutt, trustee of St. Mathew’s
Anglican Church, Windsor, points out “ that in
the Church report for Easter, 1881, the whole of
the general otter oryfor the preceding year, what-
ever that might be, was appropriated to the clergy-
man’s stipend. From a note appended to the ab-
stract for the year ended Easter, 1883, it appears
that the offertories at the Early Communion were
devoted to the poor, but we are left quite in the
dark as to their amount. It appears, however, that
of the other Church offertories amounting to £166
10s. 7d., £3 only was allowed forthe poor. For the
vear ended Easter, 1883, the total collection at the
Baity Communion was £7 18s. 7d. The whole of this
sum was devoted to the sick and needy, while of
the total £171 13s. collected at the 11 o'clock and
Evening Services, £3 only, and that the single
contribution of a parishioner, for the special pur-
pose, was set apart for the relief of poor and
destitute parishioners.” We would suggest that
the name of the Church be altered from “St.
Matthew's” to “St. Judas Iscariot’s.” Judas
stuck to the bag, you know, and grudged that
aught of its contents should go to the poor and
needy.
In Melbourne the rites of the church are
to be denied to those who have not lived as
“ good, practical Catholics.” We read a good deal
lately of the Church—Its rights and.'its rites. One
thing is certain: In spite of the warring of sects,
the springing of theological mines, the nice dis-
tinctions of creed, the futile efforts to define or
describe the undettnable and indescribable, the car
of progress still proceeds—slowly, it is true; but
surely. Suppose Archbishop Goold’s directions
were carried out to the letter, how odd the result
would be! For instance, there is an ecclesiastical
law—one of the most binding and inelastic—that
it is necessary to “confess” at least once a i ear.
Among men over twenty, born of Catholic parents,
how many conform to this inflexible rule? Why,
even in these colonies it is notorious that the one
priestly plaint that knows no cessation—that, like
the poorj is always with us—is, that while women
and children crowd the steps of the confessional,
a man of mature age seldom approaches. The
vast majority, therefore, cannot be considered
“food, practical Catholics” by any stretch of
theological casuistry. Will they, then, be denied
the rites? We do not pretend to be in the Church’s
not^ 8 ’ bUt WP Can 11 uhesitatingly say they will
I nder the title of “Local Expounder,”
?iP e £ patet j£ labourer in the vineyard writes to
Macquarie News to complain of the
slight put upon him by being invited to ride forty
miles to Holland Plains to “expound,” while at
the same time two other itinerants were converg-
ing on that point for a similar purpose. One of
those made better time than the “Local Ex-
pounder, and so found himself master of the
situation and of the hall. It was vexing, no doubt.
We ve been had ourselves the same wav many a
time, before we gave up the Church.' But we
always choked down our resentment, and “lav
around for a chance of putting a spoke in some
other brother’s wheel, if we had to “ soldier” a moke
for it. “I am sure” (“Expounder,” loci.) “that
they—the Ministers—are worthy of all they get,
and more, as they would get more at anv other
calling. We knew one to get a good deal more,
and the time is not half up yet. “A man must be
sunk very low indeed to despise local preachers.”
This has been our theorv all along, but, when we
give expression to it, the postman has to hire a
hodman to carry t«the office letters from corres-
pondents who wish their papers stopped. There
is nothing more repugnant to our feelings than to
bo making a princely income, and know we are
doing wrong all the time.
In the Tingha Banner of the 20th nit., will
be found the following address delivered at the
opening of a new Orange Lodge in that town—Mr
R. L. Murray, M.L.A., presiding. Comment would
only spoil it:—' 1 Brother Hawkins, on rising, said
that if he would say something, it would be merely
to follow in the track of those who had gone be-
forehim, he fully endorsed the remarks that had
fallen from Bros. Murray and Graham, and ho
hoped that the members would carry out the
advice that had been given them bv those gentle-
men; it was one thing to join this lodge, but quite
another thing to carry out the principles. They
had taken a solemn oath, and it should ever be
their aim to forward the cause of Protestantism.
Among them, he said, were to be found many
lukewarm members who took little heed of their
oaths, but took part in concerts, and subscribed to
many other things which were all, in one way or
another, for the advancement of Catholicism. He
considered it wrong for a Protestant to subscribe
for the purchase of a Priest’s buggy. Some did it
for the sake of business, but he believed that that
was only a trap, and considered it did them no
good. The speaker related an incident in his own
life when he first came to fnvcrell. how when ho
wanted work, he refused on principle to cut
timber for the Catholic Church, which was in
course ol erection and that it was only owing to
the forcible arguments used by Brother Murray
at the time that he was induced to forego hi's
resolution.”
* * *
The Bishop of Ballarat, has been begging
in England—probably, for money to convert the
“ Savages of Bungaree.”. .The Shoalhaven (N.S.W.)
Bible Society, petition Queen Victoria “to use her
gracious influence with the other sovereigns of
the world, for the restoration of <ho Jews to
Palestine.” A member of our staff signed this
petition, adding, “ and we beseech your Gracious
Majesty to use your influence with all other poten-
tales, to k, ep ’em there.” Christianity is bound
not to lose ground, now that Gordon, Q.C., has been
appointed its legal adviser, Mayjaw Rowe its mili-
tary councillor, Woseby and Withorsits buttresses,
and Pottle its ’Ighland Hoil purveyor. It couldn’t
have plot on a better crowd as helpers to Hold the
Fort Minister: “I observe, Mr. Scruples, that
you do not put anything into the plate on a Sun-
day morning.” Parishioner : “I do not. Pact of
it is I don’t believe in Sunday opening—not even
of my purse.”
• • •
The newly-formed society for the Defence
of Christianity would do well to despatch Roseby
or Picfon to Berlin, at once. The Crown Prince
and Princess are at their Freethinking tricks
again. The Crown Prince has sent a splendid
Bible to anew church on the Island of Rilgen, with
his autograph and the text, “ The letter killeth,
but the Spirltgiveth life,” written by him under-
neath. Tbe Crown Princess wrote on another
page, “ Understandest thou what thou readest?”
— The Protestant Church of Geneva, has utterly
and totally collapsed. Every minister elected
since 1874, is either an avowed agnostic or a de-
clared opponent of the old “orthodoxy.”... By
demanding £1,000,000 for the recently concocted
sheep-skin strips of Deuteronomy, Mr. Shapira
has “ blown” on the trade in manufactured anti-
quities. Both the treasure and the finder’s name
are bogus, Tbe one 1b calf-skin anil the other
Pappbjrif.
The Melbourne Herald was truly great
over the Bolam divorce case. It couldn’t publish
the verdict, for the simple reason that none was
arrived at by the jury ; but “our reporter ” held
the Melbourne public spell-bound with the details
of the luncheon that was served in the jury-room.
Nine only out of the twelve “ good men and true ”
ordered luncheon; these were supplied with “ four
mutton chops and eight pork-pies, and one small
tureen of cauliflower, enough for three men at
the most.” Subsequently, an addition of “four
more chops” was made to the banquet. The
reporter points out that the “ wittles ” were quite
inadequate to the requirements of the “case.”
Certainly ; how can a man be expected to give a
proper decision upon nice little domestic points
after such a paltry toothful as a pork-pie or a
chop ; and then for the minds of nine men to be
unsettled by a scrimmage for “cauliflower for
three I” No wonder there was no verdict. Unfor-
tunately for science, the “legal” effect of the
diffei’enc viands has not been properly explained.
We are not told whether the “ pork-pies ” favoured
the petitioner, or the “chops” were “down” on the
co-respondent. Still more interesting would it
have been to have learned the opinions of the
three jiu-y men who took no luncheon at all. As
regards the lucky three who secured the cauli-
flower. we can’t help thinking they must have
been dashing sort of “ blades, ’ who would look
with a lenient eye upon domestic peccadilloes, and
would favour the respondent.
In u cornfield, the light heads are the
highest, and the well-filled ones hang down
modestly. It is just the same out of cornfields.
At the Davies’ banquet at Kiaina the
guests consisted chiefly of sons of temperance
and sons of toil. As a consequence, the caterer,
who provided for 10s. 6d. a head, is said to have
come out with a balance on the wrong side. It is
generally believed down South that it was some-
thing in their temperance principles which in-
duced the total abstainers when carving merely to
cut the fowls in two, and caused the banqueters to
drink liquor by the bucketful.
Mr. Charles Turner has sent us a little book
called “Zoology and Things,” price Is. Some of it
is very funny, and some of it isn’t. Perhaps the
best illustration consists of a picture wherein an
old fence is converted by a few bold strokes into
a cow which is giving Sydney milk through a water
tap. The drawings are much better than the letter-
press, but;the book, which has been neatly turned
out by Gordon and Gotch, shows a quaint mind.
Every child should agitate for a copy, and Mr.
Turner should go on in the groove of the cow and
the water tap.
Richter said no man can either live piously,
or die righteous, without a wife. Malherbe said
the two most beautiful things on earth are women
and roses. Savllle considered there was more
strength in woman’s looks than in any Jaws. Victor
Hugo didn’t believe that women detested serpents
so much from fear, but more thro igh professional
jealousy. And Boucicault wished Adam had died
with all his ribs in his body. Rochebrune asserted
that women find it easier to defend their virtue
against men than their reputation from one
another—which is about as rough on the virtue of
men as it is on the spitefulness of women. The
only thing that consoled Lady Blessington for
being a woman was that she couldn’t bo made to
marry one. Some married men almost wish they
were women. But Garfield said he would sooner
be married than be President. [He perhaps said that
after he had been shot.— Ed. B.]
When the brain ia wearied, the nerves un-
ptruhp, the iqusclee weak, use Hop Bikers. Road.
The account in the Herald of the
hamentary picnic reflects, it must be owned
credit on the gorgeous young lav-rena^t 80 ®e
indited it, if only 5 by reason* of w . ho
ingenuousness and the odour of sannfi^? ular
gravy which pervade it. Sir John
(who. in all probability, had his tongue in his^h 80 ?
during the whole of the proceedings) allnlf^ k
way of novelty I) to his dear friend, Mr Dan (b < r
eloquence ; and Mr. Dailey “found it imTvT 1 ?? 8
to respond” with “equal f ellcity of
his “ accomplished friend,” Captain CharL 1°
Amezaga, who, as he replied in French, mncVk„ 6
considerably edified the majority of his Lpo 6
The gallant Captain who is reported hi
Herald young man to have spoken
other things) as follows :-“ Je me ?^ 1
.lours que I’Australie, vu (sic) j’ai revu une h^° u *
talitii splendide, ce nouveau pays, le Mv^ 1 '
prodigos (sic) ou la race Saxone, Get ancien ne,^? 8
gloneux, trouve, en laissant notre vieux conti^r 6
qui commence a devenir trop un nt
immense a son activity proverbiale.
Messieurs, Je vous remorclo encore et T’nnY'
(sic) en proposant un toast a la prosnoHus I 6
1’Angleterre Australlenne, aux dignes mAmh, de
des ropresentants de la colonie de New si, fu
Wales, aux dignes Ministres du Gouvcrnement .
au digno repnkentant de la couonno ”
(Cheers) The applauders, of course, numi prL
amongst them such ripe scholars and profipkn,
linguists as Mr. Abigail, Mr. Melville, Mr ff.fi
“Mickey” Chapman, and other equally distin’
guished gentlemen, so it is satisfactory to
that though wo can’t understand the tenor of Can
tain de Amezaga’s remarks from the report of tr
Christian young gentleman who set them down
the eloquent members whose names we C,
printed must have been highly edified by the Can
tain’s eloquence, especially as our voung missinn
ary reported “great applause” to have lean
bestowed upon the orator at several perimk
probably at the intervals when he stopped
blow his nose. Sir John Robertson consider*!
“ his friend, John Lucas ” (who didn’t show un hi
the way) to have been “ so badly used,” a sentf
ment which does not seem to have aroused mm-a
than a ton of enthusiasm. We think John Lima,
has been “so badly used,” too; but then, you know
Providence will sometimes take an eccentric
flight, even with a chosen subject. Sir John likA
wise happily remarked that he had known Mr
Dailey from a boy, though he was reticent as to
how long he had known the Premier. Very prettv
indeed, all this, and cheerful reading forthebreak
fast table. And it is especially satisfactory (for
many reasons) to learn that the distinguished
party arrived homo in safety, and that conse-
quently the welfare of the nation is not yet
trembling in the balance. We had the pleasure of
meeting a largo party of the distinguished pic-
nickers (why a “k”?) on their arrival, and we
noticed, to our surprise, that they looked glum,
even to fierceness ; taciturn, even to moroseuess.
Probably some of them were ruminating upon
how much they had lost at Nap.; or possibly
evolving in their minds some sure but secret
method of exterminating the Vernon band, which
had accompanied them.
A STORY TOLD BY CHAIRS.
BISHOP COLBNSO.
No. 1.
The position of the chairs, as found after
George’s first call on Arabella.
No. 4.
Married —They are now one.
THE FIRST MOSQUITO.
It came at night-time, when my eyes were soothed
by sleep-
While I dreamed of golden harvests (which I never
seemed to reap)—
And it hovered round my pillow—little Messenger
of Bliss
(Though, of course, I couldn’t see it, I am certain
it did this).
First it made a close inspection of my peaceful
sleeping face;
Then it picked upon my eyelid, as a tender sort of
place;
And it paid me such attentions that, in agony of
pain,
I awoke, and murmured, gently, “ Lo! the Sum-
mer’s come again.”
Oh! my heart grew hot with pleasure, and I felt
my pulses stir,
As I listened to the music of the mad mosquito’s
whirr”;
And I knew that chilly Winter must be fairly put
to flight
By the sweet approach of Summer—as I felt the
beggar bite.
No. 2.
George becomes a regular caller. The
chairs are found nearer.
No. 5.
Been married some time.
No. 3.
The position of the chairs after they be-
came regularly engagep.
No. 6.—A Family Jar.
(Perhaps his mother in-law was on a
visit).
Sister Therese.
[For The BULLETIN.]
O solemn and sanctified Sister Therese,
Why lift thy dark eyes from the missal ?
Why murmur and moan from tense lips on bent
knees,
“ O days once so bright I and is this all ?”
O priestess-like, passionless Sister Therese!—
What banishes prayer and devotion ?
Thy heart heaves and throbs as though never
could cease
Its wild, madly agonised motion.
O icy, impassible Sister Therese,
Whose sins, people say, are forgiven,
Why send up to Heaven, in accents which freeze,
The shriek of a murder unshriven?
O Sister Therese, heaven’s incoming guest,
Why tremble and shudder and stagger ?—
The kerchief which coils like a snake on tti)
breast I
The rent like the slash of a dagger!
O Sister Therese, the gloomy and good,
Pale sister, the dolesnme and dour, ,
That kerchief is broldered in blossoms of blood
By deep stains of Life’s ruddy llow’r.
0 Sister Therese, and how did he die ?
In the battlejfront, fighting the foeman ?
Or did he lie stark with bis face to the sky,
Stabbed tbropgh to tpe Jseart by a womao


THE AUSTRALIAN
Diamond Drill Company.
CONTRACTS will be undertaken by the above
Company to bore any sized holes, vertical or
horizontal, up to
3 INCHES, OR LARGER IF REQUIRED,
to an
y depth, at a reduction of 25 PER CENT.
DELOW ANY PREVIOUS CHARGE.
The Company, in all cases, will find their own
fuel and water for drilling purposes, and will make
no charge for loss of diamonds or wear and tear on
plant, and will also provide workmen engineers, &c.
The new duplex barrel, Introduced into the
oilony by Mr. J. Coghlan, will be used free of
charge to persons searching for minerals.
Mr. Coglan has every confidence, from his prac-
tical knowledge of the Diamond Drill, that he will
be able to give general satisfaction, as well as quick
despatch to all orders addressed to the
Temporary Offices, 311 George-etreet.
JOHN COGHLAN,
General Manager, pro. tem.
Singer’s Sewing Machines.
TURNER & CO.
Are the Recognised Agents of the
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS:
28, ed. per week—2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week.
And no interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
nr* BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE “ SINGER,”
TURNER & COMPANY,
353 George-streat,
THE ONLY “SINGER.”
Turner and Company,
578 GEORGE STREET.
WORKING CLASSES,
GENERAL YOUR OWN GAS.
Apply to
D. KBELY AND CO.,
71 Gou fir .urn-street, Sydney.
Dealers in Portable Gas, Gasallers, Lamps, and
Fkrid. Comfort, Economy, and Safety.
Mr. Heely, on behalf of the Patent Portable Gas
Co., had charge of the lighting of the hall and
lupper rooms at the Hay Demonstration, and the
lighting of Croydon Station. He undertakes to
teach his customers in three minutes the mode of
lighting.
A liberal discount wll I be given to storekeepers
on remittances per orders, and goods forwarded
with quick despatch. Orders and remittances to
be sent to the above address. No orders attended
to without remittance.
LIST OF PRICES:
4 Light Gasalier £3 10
5 0
3 do. do 2 10
2 do. do 1 15
2 Light Brass Table Lamps .. 5 10
1 do. do. do 2 10
Brass Bracket Lamps, burn 16
hours 2 0 0
Wall Bracket Lamps, do. .. 0 17 6
Globes and Fittings ,. ..0 5 0 each
Fluid, in ca«es, 8 gallons.. .. 0 2 6 gal.
1 gal. fluid gives a light equal to 12s worth kero-
sene. instructions as to the mode of lighting sent
to clients with despatch of goods.
Goods sent to all pai ts of the Colonies.
0
0
0 to £2
0
0
EVERY DESCRIPTION OF FISHING TACKLE,
Wholesale and Retail.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE STREET.
%
DINNER,
ONE SHILLING
✓
ft
Cx*
v
CD
d
H d
tn 2
ss
S3
w
w
PITT STREET,
NEXT TATTERSALL’S.
All meals One * billing.
J. C. GREENFIELD, Proprietor.
%
A. GORMAN,
Late of the Telegraph Hotel, Inverell,
HAS OPENED THE
4 Clsir e:EL<a.oa^.,’
Corner of ELIZABETH & PARK Streets,
which he intends to keep as a first-class Hotel,
eatn ?‘«u 0pe8 ' by strict attention to Business, to
win e^ a^?. of thelr PATRONAGE. VISITORS
HOTwr a , 18 . surpasees most of the leading
ACCOMODATION and every CON-
ttu«vl„P E : ?nd, as it overlooks HYDE PARK, it
necessarily be WELL VENTILATED.
SUITES of ROOMS for FAMILIES,
as per agreement.
Hot and COLD WATER BATHS.
PORTER in Attendance Day and Night.
0^p?2^mary to rotation the quality of the
w a « hL b t£L K1T8 > HBERS, &c. &c„ as he is, andal-
torWtog^tv£ ot £ d throughout the COLONIES
CiU nff nothing but the very best.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old 0/£sitin.red.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine /rish Whiskey
™. WHISKEY
n„*KH 0ttle !i in bond for Ex > rt at the Distillery,
and consumers may, t refore, rely that it
ms not been in the hands of “ hiskey Doctors.”
it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 Park Street,
IMPORTERS
Of
PIANOS,
by every maker
of renown, from
£36 and up-
wards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY
The Latest, most Popular Music In Stock.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE
COFFEE PALACE,
231 GEORGE STREET NORTH.
JOHN JOHNSON, Proprietor.
TTTAVING opened the above, the Proprietor has
supplied a want long felt in Sydney. The
first floor contains spacious Ladies and Gentle-
men’s Dining and Drawing Rooms, also Single and
Double Bedrooms, replete with every comfort.
A TRIAL IS RESPECTFULLY SOLICITED.
THOMAS MUNRO,
r HERALDIC ARTIST AND ENGRAVER,
PLAIN AND FANCY STATIONER,
10 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
A Large and varied assortment of Letter Books,
Account Books, and all office requisites. Purses,
Albums, Plush Bags, and Reticules; Artists’ Mate-
rials, Photo, and Picture Frames, Illuminated
Scripture and other texts. Birthday, Condolence,
and Memorial Cards.
Agent for August Huenerbein for Pianos, Or-
gans, and Music. The Engraving workshop being
under my own management, I feel confident in
suiting the public taste.
W 11
LCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £410
HEBBLEWHITE i
416 GEORGE STREET.
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn shellers
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
&c. &c. &c.
; C Q.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
WIRE WORKERS,
WISH to call your attention to WIRE GOODS
we make and have in stock as under
FLOWER STANDS, for holding flowers in pots,
made of iron and wire, handsomely framed and
bronzed, suitable for rooms, halls, balconies, ver-
andahs, and conservatories. Also, WIRE FERN
BASKETS, all sizes and prices.
SIEVES and SCREENS, for screening lime,
gra
hob
anu kjvxvuui.1 kJ, lol DUX UvUlllJJ liLUOt
vel, coal, &c., all meshes, from I hole to 100
es to the squares inch.
WIRE LATTICE-WORK, for protection of win-
CAGES of every description, for canaries and
parrots, singly or in nests, suitable for store-
keepers.
And every description of WIRE WORK made on
the premises.
EASTWAY, BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE-STREBT,
(3T" Illustrated Catalogues on application.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
FOWLER’S POTTERY and
BRICKWORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
THE QREA V LIVER REMEDY,
U iilc li f a J®i a » ouritl ' remedy. We all suffer more
erleesfrom liver complaint, thereby hindering
P^ 1 ?F I rol P •ulflliing their functions. Set
the liver in order by takidg the above remedy, and
gSfiiTchoWi mm ’ and 8tomacb wm umte iH
ABEAHAM’S PILLS,
The true Invigorate r. If your vital forces are
depressed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of coming
disaster, your liver is unequal to its work. To
obviate all these syra otoms there is no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABRAHAM’S FILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion of
the maladies and ailments attacking tne human
frame are really due to a disordered liver. Set this
organ in order and health returns as if by magic.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are Imitations, ask for ABRAHAM’S
tT-LiLS. bee that each box, by whomsoever sold,
bears the inventor’s name and trade mark. The
Lab Jiatiry,
434 George Street, Sydney.
fllHE FEDERAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA
T (Limited)
Incorporated under Act of Parliament.
CAPITAL, £1000,000 ; SUBSCRIBED, £665,000.
Directors *
va- A. Brodribb, M.L.C., Chairman.
Rol2k E ffii„?fc,f P - F ' Sp HU " Ph8rr ' ESq -
„ [j. Y. Mills, Esq., J.P.
Manager ; F. 8. Macdermott.
Accountant: John Docker.
Solicitors : Messrs. Robertson, Fisher, and Ralfe.
Temporary Banking House, 267 George-street,
North, with branch at the Haymarket.
andTrf Affencies throughout the Colonics
nif Ii ni!ffi tr n tes ,9 f Interest given on Deposits, and
Bank;ln 8' business transacted without
aemy to customers.
F. S. MACDERMOTT, Manager.
VISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
FOB
CHEAPNESS, FIT, AND WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any
part of the Colony.
Pianos! Pianos! Pianos!
FREE TRADE and NO MONOPOLY.
Live and Let Live, these are Our Mottoes.
It is a well-known fact that the Foundations of
Colossal Fortunes have been established upon the
Profits arising from the SALE OF PIANOS in this
City during the past Twenty Years by those
having little or no knowledge of the Construction
of the Pianoforte. While giving the
Public the benefit ot our Mr. Young’s 36 years*
personal practical experience (5 years in John
Broadwood and Sons, London, and 20 in N.8.W.),
we will, at the same time, be satisfied with a fair
Pu r SS nta^e on Co-operative Principle, sharing
the Profits with our Customers. We will sell from
25 per cent, less than the same class of Instrument
can be Purchased at any Music Shop in Sydney,
and we will offer nothing for Sale we cannot
guarantee. American Organs at proportionately
low prices. Also a Largo Stock of Kohn’s Cele-
brated Austrian Furniture, a single article of
which we (ire selling at Wholesale Prices.
Come and See Our LITTLE BEAUTIES in Wal-
nut and Pull Iron Frame, at £25 cash, Eleswhere
£10 more, or under a Liberal Time Payment Sys-
tem.
George E. Young and Co.,
tS&~ 285 PITT STREET,
South of Royal Arcade.
THE HARWOOD
Fibre Chair Seating,
Possessing all the Qualities of a perfect seat, viz.:
Strength, Durability, Ease, Beauty, Cleanliness
and Cheapness.
THIS CHAIR SEAT is made from the strongest
known fibres and a perfectly waterproof
cement, and after fifteen years’ constant use, wq
can speak positively as to its merits. It cannot
split or check, neither will exposure to sun or rain
affect it.
Awarded Gold Medal at the late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
For RE-SEATING it is unrivalled. In every
house, store and office, are chairs with seats broken.
Any person can re-seat and make as good as new a
chair that is otherwise worthless, at a very trilling
expense.
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE FOR HOME USB.
Agents Wanted in Every District.
From £3 to £5 a week can bo made by any smart
man or boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
82 CLARENCE STREET.
CARTON’S HOTEL,
SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. G. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 345.
kjRiiS
TONIC NERVINE
REGISTERED.
A SAFE, certain, and speedy cure for Nervous
and General Debility, and all complaints that
spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Nervous Headache, and Toothache, Indigestion,
Loss of Appetite, General Prostration, &c. By its
tonic and soothing effects it at once removes all
craving for ALCOHOL. By its richness as a Che-
mical Food, it nourishes and gives vigour to the
whole system. Price, 4s. 6d. Sold everywhere, and
by the Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHERS, 106
Market-street, Sydney. Wholesale Agents—
Elliott Brothers* and E, Prosser $ Co.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHOUT HOUN
WHISKY.
-----J’S SHORT HORN BOURBON—The
— drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFTNUNO & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
MASON BROTHERS;
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Havealw ys in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
PAPERHANGING S!
w ith
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSERY PAPERS.
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, &0.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwick,
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils. Paints, Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &c.
Atlas Foundry & Engineer-
ing Company,
HAY STREET SYDNEY.
Engineers, Boilermakers and Shipbuilders,
Iron and Brassfounders, Coppersmiths and
Millwrights.
The above firm are prepared to undertake con-
tracts for the manufacture of Marine and Station-
ary Engines, Boilers, and Girder Work, Quartz-
crushing, Sawmill, Sheep-washing, Mining, Sugar-
mills, and all other descriptions of Machinery, with
latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for metal.
EURE
KA
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
I'ilE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
JlNEB THAN THE FINEST.
The Tobacco of the Age I
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The only Tobacco combining Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Price.
Each PLUG is STAMPED with the word
“ EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain it.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
Sajrwell’s Toliun Go., Lin.
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
And can be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse,
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO-
Registered according to Act of Parliament, to pro-
tect the public against spurious and worthless
imitations.


Prepared according to the direction* n D .
E. N. Horsford, of Cambridge, Mass ‘
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED «r. D
DYSPEPSIA. HEADACHE, INDIGESTinv
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTlnv
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS Drop*.
HYSTERIA. WAKEFULNESS.
WEAKENED ENERGY, &c.
t&~ No Danger caw Attend its Eg*
Nervous Depression from Over«„ .
Sluggish Circulation anil GroM ,
Sandusky, 0 Map 91
I have used your Acid Phosphate ami -•
nounco it a very valuable addition I«„?' 11r,,Tk
ful and beneficial in nervous dvsnensia „ ” u*
depression following overwork and anxietp 06 "'’®
as the gastric derangements. Where x
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation 1
heavy head, it is of undoubted value F a n 0 ’. a ' i,:1:
ing children require this valuable addition
W. R. p AG E M.D
Liver and Kidney Derangement*.
Boston, Mass.. Mnv 10 n».
In regard to the Hereford’s Acid pLiJ"?',
have used it very extensively, and with tie
remarkable success. ia0!no v.
“J? in a11 where th-.
is derangement of the liver and kidneys, w .’
my patients it has agreed wonderfully *
O. G. GILLEY, M.D.
Nerve Tonic.
A. S. Carpenter, M,D„ Keene, N H
“ Horsford’s Acid Phosphate is a valuah’u
cine. I have taken it Myself, and for
years prescribed It for my patients, when suffer r.
from indigestion or Innervation of the dinar,!
organs, and always with satisfactory results I ..
a good nerve tonic, and in some cases of m 0 rhi!
urine, ‘ it acts like a charm,’ producing the d«rir*l
result. It is pleasant to the taste, acceptable to th»
stomach, and is, in ray opinion, an excellent
valuable compound.”
.Can be borne by the most Sensitive
Stomach*.
Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 18*1.
RUMfO*?
R
mi ■ v 1
•y tne most sensitive
stomach. Have prescribed it with marked here-
in indigestion and urinary troubles. It form. an
excellent substitute for lemon juice, and as such
will furnish a refreshing drink for the sick.
A. L. HALL, M.D.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
2v£sLgric Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internal;
or Externally.
44 It Works like a Charm.”
It is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened ud
overstrained cords and muscles new life and eia-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches fire. It cum
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Braises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an internal remedy it tones and corrects th»
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cure* folk
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sow
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Throat, and Dip
thcrla.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use a
case of emergency, will often save a life or» loa*
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers is
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELBBEATBD
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best Imported into this country, and h* 11
gained throughout the colonies such a hip
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected v*
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest sun
ard make _
Because the iron-work consists of the
steel and Norway iron, severely tested
used ,
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best. - ■
leather, and the upholstery is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnish**
used in their finish
BECAUSE they uro each and all built under
instructions to, and personal super
one of the leading carriage builders
and specially constructed for the
climate jd
And because all who use them say thbt a
best.
American Carriage
WYNYARD SQUARE, SlDNE*
barronTmoxham^co^
HOW WE EDITED THE TINTOWN
TOMAHAWK.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
If you saw us writing this, with one ear on
the table and the family fanning the Are with the
other, you would be amused. Besides having con-
verted our mouth into a perfect post-office by
smiling, the veins in our forehead are swollen with
suppressed chuckles: all the outcome of recollec-
tions of an uproarious nature. The surroundings
are especially conducive to a literary flight of an
hilarious character; and having secured ourselves
from intrusion by putting the chain upon the
front door and nailing up the back one, we feel
equal to a great performance. It is true one or
two little contretemps have occurred this morning
which might have had the effect of damping the
ardour of a less mercurial spirit, but they haven’t
affected us to any great extent. The man with the
paper called, said something (we don’t know what),
and took it away with him, leaving us in ignor-
ance of the condition of the weather in Muswell-
brook, and in the dark as to the form of Govern-
ment under which we live. The “ milk” drove up,
with commendable punctuality, at the usual hour.
He said something (we don’t know what), but he
didn’t go through the form of putting anything in
the jug. This omission ha. raised a feeling of
irritation in the family which is scarcely to be
allayed by molasses, and the shrieks of the young-
ost-born are only silenced by our permitting him
to play “ honey-pots” with our last new bell-topper.
This little paper, we may remark, is being written
in the kitchen. We have always had a mania for
writing in the kitchen ever since we let the parlour
— unfurnished. We don't mind, bless you I a sauce-
pan or two amongst our copy, or little Bobby’s
potato-peelings festooned about the inkstand. We
don’t mind being interrupted, either, just in the
middle of a florid passage, to build up the school
benches for the children; or we don’t mind, when
racking our brains for a novel rhyme to “ love,” to
“ hold the baby ” while a halfpenny each is found
for the rest of the offspring—that being the
amount of their bloated income per diem. But,
there 1 it’s all in a life-time I Even having to
feebly try flour-and-dripping under the sickly
and miserably fallacious pretence that the baker is
“ late,” and to sneak round to the back entrance
of the store and offer seven stamps for a sixpenny
tin of sardines, giving as a reason that “ too much
meat is heating,” shall not cause us to shirk the
path of duty. And with a passing expression of
regret that the terms of the laundry are “ cash on
delivery,” we will now proceed to plunge in
mediae res.
» ♦ •
You would have hardly thought, when
you saw us on the block, flapping one lavender
glove and chewing the end of a cigar, that wo have
had a vast colonial experience. But it is true,
nevertheless. Wo have done boundary-riding,
fencing, splitting palings (this is an alluring pas-
time 1), shepherding claims, gold-mining, window-
cleaning, and editing a bucolic journal. We have
been tutor, and have taught the melodious
language of the Gaul to hammer-headed kids
deep in the wilds of the primeval forest.
We have been “ in charge” of cattle, and
confidential clerk to a squatter: and it would
bo difficult to discover in wnich capacity we failed
the most completely. Our gold-mining experience
was peculiar. Once when wo were a reporter for
a N.Z. Journal, we purchased for £30 a claim about
nineteen miles outside the town, and chartered
two brawny ruffians at £3 10s. each a week to dig
in it. Wo often used to go and watch them at
first. It was very entertaining. One of the two
(we suppose they drew lots) used to be lowered
down into the hole with a pick and shovel, and the
other stalwart scoundrel would “stand-by” the
windlass. The “ push ” would have a smoke then;
and in about a quarter of an hour the man on top
would wind up a small bucket of stones and mud.
This he would put on top of another heap of the
same alluring substance, and then he’d wind
it down again. In a little while, the man below
would suggest refreshment, and, on being assured
by both that we “ should strike it rich ” shortly, we
used to acquiesce, and adjourn to the solitary
shanty on the Held, and drink “ Square O I” There
were some swells on that field, we must tell you,—
two “ honorables" and the heir to a baronetcy;
and there wasn’t a whole pair of pants among
them. The scions of the British aristocracy on
Nuggety Gully had all of them a lot of hilly ground
like ours with several holes in it, and though they
used to burrow all day like so many patrician
moles they never hoisted anything out other than
mud and stones, and rock and gravel. But they
had big hearts. When we used to ride out on
Saturday to pay the two unvarnished ruffians who
were deepening our shaft and narrowing their own
reputations, we would say: “Well, how’s things?”
They would then be “ hanging up” salt fish at the
store, and suspending flour. “ Not a colour,”
would be the reply ; whereat gloom would
enshroud the otherwise open countenances
of the storekeeper. After a bit, we paid off our
mining-staff, and, presenting those two imposters
with the bucket and the rope, registered the claim.
About a week afterwards, a Sydney capitalist met
us (by a strange coincidence), coming out of a
public house; and he said : “ What’ll you take for
that claim of yours?” “Sixpence,” was our
prompt reply. “No, seriously—.” We were
honest at that time. It was long before our com-
mercial morals had been corrupted by a study of
Milburn Creek enterprise, and the art and science
of valuing Darling Harbour property. So, drawing
him into the hostelrie, wo said: “Behold us a wreck;
bankrupt in pocket, and agonized in mind. Take
the claim—take the mud, and the stones, and the
rocks; take the sheet of bark we used to lie on,
whi'e watching our demo liao workmen doing
their d lily swindle; take it all.” It ended in our
selling it for £30, and a couple of bottles of
Colonial Roederer, and we were very jubilant over
the transaction. A few weeks later we wore
strolling forlornly down the street, when we
chanced upon the purchaser of our Eldorado.
Feeling ashamed to face him after selling him a
shored-up mud-hole for £30, we were about to
turn away, Avhen he cried: ‘‘Ho!” Then he
beckoned, and wo perceived he had a bag in his
hand. “Glad to see you,” he cried: “we got
£l600-worth of gold out of that claim of yours, in
three weeks. What’ll you try ? Nothing. Ah,
well. Good-day; 1’® going to the bank.”
After this crusher, we wandered farther
North, and meeting with a creature, if possible,
more feeble than ourselves, we took a contract for
splitting 10,000 palings. Behold us. then, rigging up
a tent on the Peak Downs that would have shamed
a Patagonian, and starting out every morning
with an axe, a mallet, two tomahawks, and some
other tools concerning which wo knew rather less
than a Hindoo does about skates. Our perform-
ances with the saw were of a terrific nature. It used
to bend like the willow in the tempest. We had a
golden rule, though. That was—if in doubt, grease
the saw; but, as wo were three weeks at the work
before we discovered the advisability ot ring-
barking the tree before cutting it down, it required
a good deal of grease, both mutton and elbow, to
make the saw travel at all. After a while, the
“ boss” came to inspect our work: and, after doing
so, wo regret to state that he used language that is
as little fit for publication as it was a guarantee of
good faith. He told us we bad spoiled the axe
and mutilated the mallet, that three of the wedges
were benighted in the bush, and the tomahawks
only fit for old iron. Ho then took away the con-
tract, and < old us, in so many words, to “clear.-’
This dismal conclusion to our enterprise some
might think would have rendered us desponding.
On the cbntrary. We were secretly glad to be rid
of our contract. And so behold us gleefully flee-
ing under cover of the night, alone, leaving to our
companion to realise, for his personal benefit, the
result of our joint labours. We never saw him
since—so we suppose the paling-party watched
until Cynthia was o’er-shadowed with something
thick, and then strolled down and killed him with
a mallet.
• • *
The shades of night were falling slowly
(’tis thus that we avoid plagiarism), when a solitary
traveller might have been seen washing his heels
in a creek within a few miles of Tintown. We say
“ washing his heels,” advisedly, for they were
represented but by two large blisters. He had ou
a pair of check trousers of fashionable cut, a
cotton shirt, a hat with a hole in it; and by his
side Jwas an old, faded railway-rug, tied around
with a piece of clothes-bne. Ho was engaged,
at the time we find him, endeavouring to
boil an absurd little spirit-ketttle, which
ho had brought with him in order to
avoid the plebeian necessity of carrying a
billy. Behind was a vast expanse of black soil
plain, with the dying rays of the sun glowing on
its already hard-baked surface; and before was a
very distant view ot high chimneys, emitting their
spiral clouds of smoko. The man at the creek
emptied out his bag of flour, kneaded It clumsily
upon a piece of American cloth, and then rolling it
out with a sapling, placed it dubiously on the
coals. It was exciting to watch this “Johnny-
eake.” Sometimes the ashes wouldn’teven colour
It, but the moment they were fanned by the hat of
the peripatetic chef, his broad became a torch. He
fed at length discontentedly on charcoal and dough,
and having made a pot of tea by infusing in warm
water a small quantity of that importation from
China known in the bush as “ posts and rails,” he
donned his coat, and discarding the raiiway-rug
and et-ceterns , departed In the direction of the
Small Smoke. The solitary traveller was our-
selves.
• • •
Tintown consists of one dusty street
which contains four hotels, six stores, one auc-
tioneer, a zinc church, but no gaol. The lock-up
there, was a crumpling tenement of slabs, so
farcically insecure that when a prisoner was sent
there, they generally took his parole and Jot him
wanderabout. If he was hungry he came back ;
if not, he didn’t. While we were there a bank
clerk was arrested for embezzlement. He was re-
manded to the lock-up, upon which he was in-
stalled in the verandah and provided with a shot-
gun to bring down cockatoos. And ho was such a
fearful bad aim, that for a fortnight he may be said
to have had the town all to himself. The country
was badly flooded at that time, so no witnesses could
bo brought up. In the end, we believe the bank
apologised; anyway, the supposed embezzler went
away on a horse after taking a cordial farewell of
everybody. We “alighted at” the best hotel at
Tintown.' This was kept by the Mayor, who bad a
butcher’s shop next door and a big store over the
way. A big, burly, rod-faced fellow he was, and
ruled Tintown with an iron rod. Tintown, we may
remark, was supported by a mine, which was
worked by a legion of Cornishmen, some on wages
and some on tribute. When this mine went ahead,
Tintown was jubilant; but when it didn’t. Tintown
was glum, not to say savage. On our arrival, how-
ever, things were flourishing, which fact was,
indeed, evidenced by the cheerful manner in
which the Cornishmen jumped on one another
when feeling convivial on a Saturday night.
Distant from Tintown, four miles, was a pros-
perous township called Bullockville, supported by
the pastoral community, and which possessed a
paper named The Bullockville Banner, a
journal which was wont weekly to jeer at the
mining township, and cast derision on the Mayor.
This was a state of things “ hardly to be borne’’—
(“as the prim man in cloth-boots”) said;—and it
was at this exciting juncture that we arrived at the
noble township of Tintown.
• • •
We had tea at that hotel. We remember
that tea now: and, when wo are lowered down on
the usual six-footer, the bill of fare will bo found
engraven on our hearts. Corned mutton, and
tinned salmon, an.l sardines. Luscious faro! But.
why enlarge upon this, when it will so soon be
made a matter of history ? After tea, some infldel
brought up in front of the hotel, and tolled a bell.
He said there would be a meeting at our hotel;
but we noticed, with sorrow, that his remarks
were received with derision almost amounting to
contumely. At eight o’clock the meeting took
place in the “largo room” of the Royal Hotel,
whither we adjourned, and where we discovered
the floor strewn with Indian corn, and the Mayor
elevated on a plank on tressles. The Mayor said
that the meeting was called to consider the advisa-
bility of establishing a paper in Tintown. He
would not allude to the scurrilous attacks on the
township and the dastardly innuendoes levelled at
himself; he would only say that, so far as he was
concerned, he could not tolerate a paper in the
Tintown district in which human nature was thus
outraged. He proposed, therefore, to start a
journal of their own, to be entitled the I intown
Tomahawk, and suggested that the meeting
should form itself into a kom-mitteo to organise
the affair. Fifteen men, to whom civilization was
a dark and terrible future, immediately enrolled
themselves. Then said a prominent townsman:
“How about a heditor?” At this moment we
stepped gracefully forward. “Gentlemen,” we
said, “it is by a happy fatality that we are present
on this occasion. Engage us at once, and we will
undertake that your paper will have the largest
circulation in this district. Close with us, and you
shall be rich, happy, and above all, you sh.ll have
revenge!”
• • m
We were (perhaps there was something in
our appearance—however) engaged. The plant
and a comp, were sent down for, and we were
allotted an office over the way, which contained
two ink-splashed rooms and a calico kitchen. In
a few weeks the plant and the compositor arrived.
The former was about a shoeful of long primer ;
and the latter was an habitual drunkard. We met
him at the coach, and he presented a degraded
spectacle. Ho was foaming at the mouth, and on
being assisted down, landed on his head in the
mud. After being tied down all night with a
clothes-line, and pumped on in the morning, it was
just possible to impart to him a faint glimmer-
ing of reason. He wanted to sleep then ; but by
dint of persuasion, mingled with ill-usage,
ho was induced to come over and fix the “ cases.”
Then we began. The first issue contained much
matter; but it would have contained more if each
member of the kom-mlttee (15) hadn’t insisted upon
having an ad. gratis, and a paper also faithfully
delivered. On the day before publication we had
clambered up outside a horse, and the horse had
taken us out to see some travelling stock. When
we returned, the composing staff was speechless
under the “ Eagle” press, and we saw at once that
the first number of the Tintown Tomahawk
would r ot be the success we had dreamed for it.
It was of no use. We had to do it. So the first
issue of the Tintown Tomahawk came out with
the following notice:—
“ Owing to a pressure on our advertising
space, we are reluctantly compelled to hold
over our loader until next week.”
• • •
We started with sixty subscribers, fifteen
of which included the Kom-mittee; ahd we are
bound to admit that they disapproved of our
policy from the start. They complained, too,
about our punctuality. Our publishing day was
Saturday, but it all depended upon the compositor
sobering up. So, sometimes we came out on
Saturday, frequently on Thursday, occasionally
on Wednesday week, and even—we say this with a
blush—on Tuesday fortnight. This state of affairs
used to cause the Jfom-mittee to writhe, and chaos
was the result. A little later a rumour got about
that another editor and another compositor had
been sent for from Rockhampton. That same day
a woman got drowned in the dam. On this, we
published an “ extraordinary ” about the size of a
porous plaster, which ran as follows:—
EXTRAORDINARY.
Tintown Tomahawk.
IN MEMORlAM.
Elizabeth Johnson
(Drowned in the Dam.)
Why did’st thou not, poor creature, pause
When on eternity the brink ?
You might have thought a bit, because
That water’s all we have to drink.
When the town saw this, it rebelled. The Com-
mittee called a meeting, and invited us to be pre-
sent; but that night it so happened that we had a
prior engagement. Next day the Mayor called
round. He said: “I don’t see no nooze in our
paper.” We were in a similar predicament our-
selves, but we answered nothing. “ Can’t you
give ’em something that’ll rouse them ?” said he.
“We’ll try,” we said; and he trotted over quite
contented. On the following Thursday the follow-
ing notice was placarded through the town :—
TINTOWN TOMAHAWK.
Starling Details. Appalling Disclosures.
DEATH OF JULIUS CLUSAR.
That week the paper wont like water: and when
everything possible had been garnered in, we took
unto ourselves a. neighbour’s horse, and travelled.
• • •
Here eudelb the last lesson.
“THE LIGHT FANTASTIC.’’
Customer: —“The shoe fits well; but, Isay, I want one with a thin sole—something
to dance in. You can’t dance in a heavy shoe, you know.”
Dealer (bound to sell the shoe): —“You’ll find that a mere fancy, man. I
never dance in any other kind of shoe. Always prefer a heavy sole—it enables
me to glide easily. You take my advice —wear a heavy shoe, my boy!”


315 George Street.
of ol , lr undertakings MOST SUCCESS
♦h. out, am eng- which wiU bo found
HFSpS T tS MOST DIFFICULT, and MOST
RESPONSIBLE eventa that have taken place since
the opening' of this establishment.
Clonterf 0r8hiP th ® MAY0K ’ S PICNIC, for 450, at
Kw Worship the MAYOR’S BALL, for 1600, Exhi-
bition Building, at which his Worship, John
en J te^S> r \ ed their R.H.’s PRINCES AL-
«BERT and GEORGE, EARL CLAN WILLIAM,
and the Officers of the Detached Squadron.
M^ S v??W BA I i .I J - English Constitution, for 1252,
Exhibition Building.
MASONIC BALL, N.S.W. Constitution, at Town
Hall, Sydney.
PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Lithgpw Valley Mines and Zigzag.
Dinner a la Russe, for 60, in Government Palace
Dining Car while travelling.
® Hi™ en t Refreshment to 15,000 SCHOOLCHIL-
v§Sv^T9^ n ’l T S i^ e I )emon8tra tion-un(ler
VERY SHORT NOTICE, only receiving the
order at 2.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot at 12 JO
p.m. the following day.
V jf i t°t THEIR R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Captain Cook’s Landing, south side
of Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon and refresh-
ment, for 100, under VERY SHORT NOTICE, re-
ceiving order at 9.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot
at 1 p.m. following day.
The LADY MAYORESS’ RECEPTIONS, Town
Hall.
The UNION CLUB BACHELOR’S BALL, at Ex hi-
bition Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE WINDEYER.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE INNBS,
Dinner d In Rmse at St. Paul’s College, for 150 Mem-
bers of the CBURCH OF ENGLAND SYNOD.
Dinner d la Rum, to the INTERCOLONIAL RIFLE
TEAMS, Town Hall.
Refreshment Bars at HAWKES-
BURY RACES, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at RAND-
WICK RACES, in Grand Stand.
The CONSULAR DINNER, in our new Banouet
Room.
ARMIDALE RAILWAY Demonstrations. Ban
quet for 400; MAYOR’S BALL, 800, same evening
and CITIZEN’S BALL, 500, the following even-
ing.
ALBURY-WODONGA RAILWAY DEMONSTRA-
TION.—Grand Government Banquet for 1016
at Albury. Grand Ball, 800, following night.
Children’s feast, 1184, the following afternoon
and evening. Also, Breakfasts, Dinners, Teas,
and Suppers, in Government Dining Car, to
His Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus, the
Ministry, and Ms.P., while travelling to and
from Banquet, &c., &c.
Numerous Banquets and Entertainments by HIS
WORSHIP THE MAYOR at Town Hall, &c.
Numerous Dinners d la Rime in the N.S.W
GOVERNMENT PALACE DINING CAR, while
travelling by rail, on account of the GOVERN
MENT. '
Together with a numerous lot of Private Dinners.
Feasts, Weddings, Garden Parties, Balls, Tea
Meetings Land Sales, Suppers, Picnics, Fishing
Excursions, &c.
CADET EXAMINATION, SURVEY OFFICE.
TT is hereby notified that an Examination of
■ Candidates for Employment as Cadets in the
Department of the Surveyor-General will be held
early in November next. The exact date, when
fixed, will be duly notified. Candidates must have
attained the age of 16 years, or they will not bo
eligible for examination.
Intending competitors can obtain further in-
formation upon applying by letter to the Surveyor-
General, or personally to the Secretory and
Cashier. (gjgned) p F ADAMS,
_ Surveyor-General.
Surveyor-General’s Office,
Sydney, 22nd Juno, 1888.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
1ST 808 GEORGE STREET.
R
M
°ifts
tcKWip!
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY,
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
’ MANUFACTURER OP THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
smoke a decent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
with a moderate price.
HEYDE, TODMAN & CD.,
YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
WOOL SALES, 1883.
11/ry very numerous constituents, and all in-
notfcothatmy unrhmlled** trad °’ wlU pJcaso teke
NEW WAREHOUSE
AT
Darling Harbour Railway Terminus
Will be READY FOR THIS SEASON, and tbat I
? h A a H£?,?£ epared .. to d0 the fullest justice to the
LARGEST as well as the SMALLEST Clips.
Each lot will be carefully Weighed and Valued
as soon as received, weights and valuations being
submitted to owners so as to hear from them be-
fore sale if necessary.
Owing, now, to the attendance of Foreign
Buyers, our market is equal to the London Market
—a point well worth remembering. Any Bank or
Firm holding Hens on wool will, if asked, allow
owners to send their wool to me ; and any For-
warding Agents, or Managers of Railways or
Steam Companies, will receive and forward Wool
or ether Produce on my account, and pay carriage
or other expenses.
ALL PROCEEDS OF SALE will be available, as
heretofore, at ANY TIME after sales ; or AD-
' »NCES, small or large, made before sales are
effected.
n.uW£ S a TTo¥.Y E STOCK. TALLOW, HIDES.
GRAIN, SUGAR, and every sort of Produce will
also meet with tho greatest possible cai'o.
JOHN BRIDGE.
MORT and CO. (Limited),
WOOL AND GENERAL
PRODUCE BROKERS.
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
Grain and Flour Brokers.
Wool,
LIBERAL ADVANCES
made on
Sheepskins,
Tallow,
Hides, Wheat,
Tin Ore, and
. „ other Produce
for SALE and SHIPMENT.
Wool Warehouses and Produce Stores,
CIRCULAR QUAY
_ and
DARLING HARBOUR, SYDNEY.
A. & T. PRINGLE & CO.,
44 MARKET ST.
SYDNEY,
Importers of
WEIGHING
MACHINES,
AGRICULTURAL
IMPLEMENTS,
AND
MACHINERY.
BROWN k MAY’S
Portable Engines, Saw Benches, Chaff Cutters,
Horse Gear, &c.
260.0
v.--'
JpUBLIC NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON k CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864.
late 483 and 484,
REMOVED TO
47 8 GEORGE STREET
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
Da. TWO DOORS NORTH OF OLD RHO 7
uiun MEL
THE FAVOURITE HOTEL IN GOULBURN.
(S\
33 COLLEGE STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
ARTIFICAL TEETH on the most approved Eng-
lish Principles, Fitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastica-
tion, Natural Appearance, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping, Scaling, and Extractions skilfully
performed.
James Carroll,
FREE SELECTORS’ & MINERS’ LAND
AGENT,
WENTWORTH HOUSE, CHURCH HILL,
SYDNEY.
“WHAT IS A SECRET?”
SOMETHING told to everybody in a whisper.
Please tell all your friends this Secret, that
they will study both “Comfort and Economy” in
having their supply of WOOD and COAL from
NOTTINO & CO.,
COAL AND FUEL MERCHANTS,
Cowpkk’8 Wharf,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO BAY.
w. H. PALING,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Pianofortes,
Pianofortes,
Pianofortes.
By the following; renowned English, French, and
Q er ™~~ \r~t
Erard
Pleyel
Collard & Collard
Broadwood & Sons
Kirkman
Soufleto
Treat & Co.
Lipp & Sohn
irman Makers
Aucher
Ronisch
Hundt & Sohn
Bluthner
Steinway
Schiedmayer
Challen & Son
Ecke
Elcke
Paling & Co.
A. Bord
Berden & Co.
Herz
Schwochten
Schwander.
Forster
And numerous other Manufacturers.
ORGANS by Bell & Co., Palace Organ Company;
Waters & Co., Pelocbert, and others.
Bell & Go’s. Celebrated Organs, besides other
Awards, gained First and Special Prize over all
others at the recent Sydney Exhibition.
HARMONIUMS by Alexander & Co., etc.
A Splendid Stock of MUSIC always on hand.
co :’ 8 PIA NOS have taken SEVERAL
PRIZES at the LATE AUSTRALIAN INTER.
NATIONAL EXHIBITIONS.
w . H . Ta lino,
Pianoforte, Organ & Harmonium Galleries,
356 GEORGE STREET.
I.
Umin
HARvrsrTC
eCHf
I
"V
CHAMPION
engines
AND
SAW
mius
FUUB
mius
cRICA
B
v :
FLEMING’S Carriage and Machinery Repository
22 and 23 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
PAIH
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
J..I/RALOIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE,
RAINS, BRUISES, BURNS. SCALDS, &c, and
Alton Internally cures DIARRHCEA, DYSENTERY,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other Internal aches
md pains. ——
Price, 2/- Sold Everywhere.
C. E. MOULTON, sole propixtcr,
ME LBOURNE AND SYDNEY,
PAINT
BOAR 8 HEAD STOUT.— This favourite brand
of Stout selected with great care from the
best of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
cannot be excelled. To be procured everywhere.
CATTBLL A CO.. Solo Agents. J
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 5th October, 1883.
TENDERS FOR ADDITIONAL PUBLIC
SCHOOL BUILDINGS.
mENDERS are invited for the Erection of Girls’
X and Infants’ School-rooms for the Waverley
Public School.
Plans and specifications may be seen, and forms
of tender obtained at the office of the Department
uf Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for additional
buildings for the Waverley Public School,” must
be lodged with the Acting Under-Secretary, De-
partment of Public Instruction, at or before 10
o'clock a.m., on Wednesday, the 81st October, 1833.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender.
G. H. REID.
CRESWBLL’S QHOICE SEEDS.
ON receipt of the following collection of
NEW GARDEN SEEDS will be forwarded
Free by return of post to any part of New South
Wales
loz. Beet (blood red), loz. Borecole or German
Greens, loz. Brocoli, 3oz. Cabbage (early and
late). 2oz. Carrot (3 varieties), loz. Celery, loz.
Cauliflower, loz. Cress (curled), loz. Mustard
(fine white), loz. Lettuce, loz. Parsnip, loz.
Parsley (extra curled), 3oz. Onions (3 varie-
ties), 4oz. Turnip (3 varieties), loz. Savoy,
loz. Spinach, 3oz. Radish (long and turnip), 3
packets Melons (water and rock), I packet
Cucumber, 1 packet Pumpkin, 1 packet
Tomato, 1 packet Vegetable Marrow.
One half of above collection, 10s, post free. 12
packets of choice assorted Flower Seeds, suitable
lor present sowing, will be presented with each £1
post collection of Garden Seeds. Assortments of
seeds, containing Peas and Beans, for transit by
ooach, rail, or steamer, for small or large gardens,
from IDs, £l, £2, and £3 3s each. Payments made
by money order or, stamps.
C. F. CRESWBLL, Seed and Plant Merchant,
474 George-street, Sydney.
EVERY 1 Dr. Mansion's New Work
MAN
SHOULD
READ
Describing bow sufferers from
Nervous and Physical Debility,
Mental Decay and all disorders
resulting from Excesses, Indis-
cretions or Overwork, are per-
manently Cured
Without Stomach Medicines.
VIGOR, HEALTH & MANHOOD
Consultation with Physician
and Book FREE. Address—
Marston Remedy Co.,
72 ELISABETH ST., SYDNEY.
MOUSTACHE AND WHISKERS.
Hoyd's Heard KUxlr did this. and will do it
on either bald bead or bare face. ‘ Forces
heavy Moustache in frum'2 to 4 weeks and
never, fails, '.‘(>,000 yoyng men already wear
full beard, having used I to 3 pkt’s. No
injury, easily applied, certain in effect,
ie h » und— Packets Is. 6d* eacb,3for 3s. 6di, post paid,
Sele Address,FbanK Douglas,
_ hox J 30 6.P.O., Sydney, N.3.W.
The ELDRED'G E*
vCorrespondence Solicited
WITH RESPONSIBLE PARTIES
FOR THE LEADING i
gSEWIM MACIIHE OF THE.WORLD.
I Pull particulars, catalogue and prices!
■ jnailed on application. 1
SEWING MACHINE CO. •
blessing to womankind.
PREVENTS destruction to health,
AND OFTEN CRIME,
SAFE AND EFFECTUAL.
p Seale< i Particulars free. Address—
ARISIAN IMPORTING COMPANY,
Elizabeth street, Sydney.
Xliey were a bneolio couple, and, taking a
. t0 Balmain, they saw a buoy covered with
T «*'n weed. “I wonder,” said he, “how that big
* ne floats.” “P’raps it’s hollered out at the
bottom,” suggested Mary Jane.
0 U the Wild River, N.Q., a horseman
un d an old man kangaroo who had mixed up
) «neck with a wire fence. Horseman got down
d charitably freed the entangled hopper, who
*rt>mptly acknowledged the service by ripping
Ks rescuer’s clothing from his collar-stud right
down to the last button of his waistcoat. Then
he bushman punched the old man’s head, and the
latter took to the bush.
Thus a Queensland correspondent:—Bo-
tungan, 22ud September.—Dear Bulletin,—
good people of Bogantungan (that is if there
, r e any goo J ones; not many I guess, if blasphemy
[, oU nts) are mightily agitated, all owing to possess-
ing a real live leper! Acquisition arose thus:—
Blackall people had leper, didn’t want him them-
selves, laid heads together, subscription list—
carrier subsidized, and informed Chinaman suffer-
ing from a malady in which Mercury generally
follows Venus; leper shunted. Twelve miles out
Blackall the carrion-chopper hears chinky is a
leper! Pause, consultation ; return to Blackall
with leper. Then Blackall arose in virtuous indig-
nation, and swore they would hang that bullock-
(.oeductor if he attempted to bring a foul leper
into their midst. So the ‘ roped- in ’ Individual had
o proceed, being told that the real nature of the
disease would bo kept dark till he had got rid of
him to railway authorities at Bogantungan. But,
nfortunately, the railway officials (not having
enough to 'do to keep them out of mischief) go
fooling around, want to see sick man, and generally
•wanting to know, you know,’ finish by finding
nu t what’s wrong, and refuse to have anything to
do with him. The P.M. at Rockhampton swears ho
will not allow him an inch nearer that town than
he is at present. Meanw hile, leper crawls about
town, and to his camp at the nearest water-hole.
Vederday it transpired that he bathes in tuis
waterhole, which is a very small one, (though all
the water used in Boguntungan is being carted
therefrom). When this news spread in town,
everyone started the bungs of their water casks,
turned their taps, and blasphemed. But then, with
the advance of civilization, they have become so
terribly fastidious up this way. Now, I don’t care
a bit-but then—certainly—I don’t drink water—
or wash—so perhaps—but never mind. There’s to
be an indignation meeting to-morrow. Some pro-
pose raising subscription, and returning him to
Blackall. However it turns out, the first Blackall
man caught here will be lynched, that’s certain.
Some fools say the Police Magistrate at Blackall,
should have advised police, &e., en route, and taken
proper sanitary precautions before starting leper
on his travels. Well, so he should: if he wanted
t) keep him. I suppose he would have been allowed
io do so, if he hadn’t worked it silently. Wonder
how he kept secret from Telegraph Office? There’ll
be fun in this before it’s done.”


TO STAND THIS SEASON at MULGBAVE,
near WINDSOR, the imported coaching
stallion,
PERFECTION,
the thoroughbred horse,
TESTATOR,
and the Exmoor pony,
UNCLE TOM.
PERFECTION, a brown horse, 5 years old, stands
17.1 hands high, perfect In symmetry, with grand
action. His pedigree is as follows Sire Coker's
Perfection, g s Warthe’s Perfection, g g s Jackson’s
Perfection, gggs Catton, ggggs Hay Becking-
ham, g g g g g s Grand Conqueror, g g g g g g s
Henderson’s King George. Dam by Old Pheno-
menon (which horse was sold for 800 guineas), g d
by Wink's Champion. Two half-brothers to Per-
fection were sold for 500 and 800 guineas respec-
tively, when 5 and 3 years old. PERFECTION
took 16 first prizes, and was never beaten in a show
ring.
TESTATOR, by the Tester (imp.) out of Rosedale
(imp.), the dam of Kingsdale, winner of the
Hawkesbury Guineas, &c., &c.
UNCLE TOM, winner of first prize at late
Sydney Exhibition, by Sir Thomas (imp.), out of
Pretty Star (imp.) He stands 13 hands high, has
immense strength, beautiful symmetry, and per-
fect action. Pretty Star’s dam (Starlight) was
champion racing pony in England, having won
over £2000, including a match for £500, and was
never beaten.
Terms—
PERFECTION :
Mares left in paddock..
Mares taken to horse ..
TESTATOR
UNCLE TOM
8 guineas each.
6 „ „
4 >> it
3
Good paddocks provided, and every care taken,
without responsibility. As only a limited number
of mares will be taken, early application is neces-
sary.
GEORGE S. YEO.
TO STAND THIS SEASON, at TOCAL,
PATERSON, the following Thoroughbred
Horses
THE DRUMMER (imp.) Subscription full.
GOLDSBROUGH,
By Fireworks out of Sylvia, by Fisherman (Imp.)
out of Juliet (imp.) by Touchstone. He is Sire of
the following winners Kamilaroi, Morpeth,
Hilarious, Galata, Carmen, Empress, Tillemby,
Wheel of Fortune, Sou’ Wester, Mileta, Kaipara,
Primrose, Lord of the Lake, Townely, King's Own,
Honeydew, &c., &c.
Terms 15 guineas each mare.
STRUCK GOLD,
r Struck Gold is a beautiful dappled brown,
stands 16 hands, with splendid bone, great strength,
and beautiful symmetry. His pedigree cannot be
surpassed (as he combines the much-prize dstralns
of Birdcatcher, Sweetmeat, and Bay Middleton),
which is as follows By the Miner (the only horse
in England that ever beat the mighty Blair Athol),
out of Whlnnle (dam of Whip, a great performer,
and winner of seven weight-for-age races in one
season), by Pellon, out of Tapioca, by Sweetmeat
(the sire of Macaroni), out of Ellen Middleton
(Wild Dayrell’s dam), by Bay Middleton. The
Miner is by Rataplan (full brother to Stockwell),
out of Manganese, by Irish Birdcatcher, &c.
Struck Gold was placed second to Chester at the
late Intercolonial Show, beating Loup Garou,
Imported Eastley, &c.
Terms : £5 5a. each mare.
Good paddocks for the use of mares, with plenty
of grass and water. Every care taken, but no
responsibility incurred.
Season commences 1st September, 1883, and ends
January 1st, 1884, when all mares must be paid for
and removed.
Mares sent by steamer will bo received at Mor-
peth ; by train at West Maitland, on receipt of
reasonable notice. For further particulars, apply to
F, REYNOLDS, Tocal, Paterson.
THE Imported Blood Stallion,
GRANDMASTER,
(Sire of Siting and Sussex) will Stand at Minimbah
this Season. Terms : Fifteen Guineas per Mare,
Also,
LECTURER,
By Kingston, dam Sappho. Terms Ten Guineas
per mare.
The Proprietor will give two Cups, value £25
each, to be run for at the Northern J.C. Meeting,
season 1888-7, for then Two-year-olds, the produce
of mares served this season by the above horses,
respectively.
Also, the Blood Stallion,
KING OP THE WEST,
by Gemma dl Vergy, from Princess by Little John,
her dam Tomboy by Marquis from a Camerton
Mare. He was a good performer in the best com-
pany, and ran through five seasons, being wonder-
fully sound, and of fine constitution. At three
years old he won the Mudgee Maiden Plate, beat-
ing Novice and Constance; besides running several
times placed. At Four, won Hawkesbury Turf
Club Handicap, beating, among others, Stanhope,
Ladybird, Jav lin, Burwood, and Viva ; and was
several times second and third. At five years’ old
he won the Hawkesbury Turf Club Handicap, for
the second time, carrying 7st., beating Stanhope,
7st. 91b., Athos, 6st. 71b., Othello, 6st. 111b., Sweet-
briar, Sir Solomon, and four others. At Randwick
Spring, won Waverley Handicap (7st. 121b.) beating
Evangeline, Sunbeam, Ladybird, Llama, Viva, and
four others. Won the Stewards’ Cup, at Bathurst,
carrying 7st. 81b., boating Blair Athol, Little King,
and eight others. Won Hawkesbury Summer
Handicap (7st. 111b.), beating Wrangler, Priam, and
seven others ; and ran second to Beadsman for the
Cudjegong Handicap, at Mudgee. The following
sca«on he did not score a win, but ran unluckily,
as ho had run on many previous occasions.
Terms : £5 5s. per mare.
The Draught Horse,
GRAND AUSTRALIAN,
will Stand this Season at Minimbah. Terms: £3 5s.
per mare. He.is 5 years old, bred by Mr. E. Larkin,
Appin, by Honest Tom, imported ; dam Lady Lin-
coln, imported. He served 11 { marcs last season,
100 of them proved in foal. He Is, without excep-
tion, one of the finest horses ever bred in Australia.
All mares to be removed and paid for by 1st
January, 1884.
Good paddocks. Every care taken, but no re-
sponsibility incurred.
D. F. MACKAY,
Dulcalmah, Whlttlngham.
TO STAND THIS SEASON, at Duckenfleld
near Morpeth,—The Thoroughbred Stallion’
HENCHMAN
(late Friday), full brother to Robinson Crusoe, the
sire of Navigator, by Angler, out of Chrysolite,
will serve ten approved mares, besides his owner’s,
at Thirty Guineas per mare.
Also,
CROWN PRINCE,
bv Kelp'e, out of Queen’s Head, by Yattendon,
out of Gazelle, will serve ten approved mares,
besides his owner’s,
at Ten Guineas per mare.
Splendid paddocks, and every care taken of
mares sent to the above horses, but no responsi-
bility incurred.
All mares must be paid for before removal.
Season ends on 1st January, 1884. Mares not re-
moved on that date will be charged ten shillings
per week each up to date of removal.
JOHN BALES.
Duckenfleld, September 18th, 1883.
THE FOLLOWING STALLIONS will Stand
the ensuing Season at RICHMOND, where
fliSt-olass Paddocks will be provided for Mares,
with every care and attention, but without re-
sponsibility
Subscription Full.
Terms, 30 Guineas per Mare
do. 15 do. do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
MAR1BYRNONG
GRAND FLANEUR
RAPID BAY ..
MOORTHORPB
JULIAN A VENAL
MONMOUTH ..
BEAUCLERC ..
CHILDE HAROLD
13
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
A few half-bred Mares will be taken to Boauclerc
at half-price.
Each Horse will be limited to 15 of the public
mares.
All Mares must be paid for and removed by
January 1,1884.
ANDREW TOWN, Richmond.
C
D E S D
E 8
The following Imported Pure Clydesdale STAL-
LIONS will STAND at Richmond the coming 1
Season, when first-class Paddocks will be provided
for Mares, with every care and attention, but
without responsibility :—
MUIR LAD,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
DAVIE,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mard.
GALLANT SCOTCHMAN,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
Comment on these Horses is unnecessary. They
have proved themselves on all the principal Show
Grounds of the Colony, and their Stock have done
the same, their progeny at six months old selling
at from 50 guineas to 100 guineas each.
All Mares must be paid for and removed by
January 1, 1884.
ANDREW TOWN, Richmond.
CLYDE LAD.
Tostandth is season,
at ASH FIELD, and tra-
vel Cook’s River, George’s
River, Bankstown, Liverpool, Parramatta, Baulk-
ham Hills, Ryde, &c. The pure-bred Prize Clydes-
dale Stallion, CLYDE LAD, winner of the second
Erize at the Agricultural Society's Exhibition,
ydney, in 1882 (as “ Menangle,” sec official cata-
logue), against all ages and all c 'mere, and special
prize at Maitland in the same year (being too late
to enter for the ordinary prizes, Clyde Lad is a
rich dark brown, 6 years old, stands 17 hands high
on short legs, and, as a draught horse, is said by
competent judges to be a perfect model. He is a
sure foal getter. Pedigree :—By Muir Lad (imp.),
the champion horse of the colony ; dam Jess, by
Shakespeare (imp.); g d Diamond, by Major (imp.);
g g d Bess, by Chestnut George (imp.); g g g d
Bonnie Jean (imp.); Bonnie Jean by Cassill’s Scotch
Champion, sold in Scotland for €1900 when 12 years
old (see Scotch Stud Book, vol. 1, page 103 .
Terms ; 4 Guineas for single mare; liberal allow-
ance for two or more mares. Good p iddocks, with
every care, but no responsibility.
Apply to Groom, at Dobroyde,
Ashfleld.
K
IRKER, GREER, & CO., DISTILLERS
BELFAST and GLASGOW.
LOCH DHU, very oldest and purest Scotch
Whiskey.
SHAMROCK, very oldest and purest Irish
Whiskey.
Won 4 Gold Medals and Australian Exhibitions.
Government Analyst says: Unusually pure,
mellow, and well-matured.
FROM ALL SPIRIT MERCHANTS.
Agent: G. ADAMS,
119 Pltt-st., Sydney, and Flinders-st., Melbournne
rn,ne
3 E
OTIC
E
TO THE TRADE.
NOW LANDING.
Ex GULF of MEXICO—
3 tons Black Curled Horsehair
3 ditto Purified English Feathers
4 ditto ditto Eider Down
24 cases Single and Double Bedsteads
44 ditto Single and Double cots.
Ex ANGLO-NORMAN-
54 oases Black and Brass Mounted Half-tester
Bedstead?, new designs
10 bales Fancy Striped Ticking.
Ex MORIALTA—
83 cases 4-post Bedsteads, all sizes
10 ditto Rowclillo’s Wove Wire Spring Mat-
tresses
10 bales 38-in. Forfar.
Ex (’ULF of CARPENTARIA-
10 cases Black and Nickel-plated Bedsteads,
speciality
2 tons Black Curled Hair
4 bales Cotton Ticks
3 ditto Bed Lace.
Ex ONEIDA—
100 cases Walter Haywood's Wood-seated Chairs
30 ditto Large Rockers, Cane Seats, ditto
30 ditto Grecian Cane scat ditto
30 ditto Nurse Rockers, Cane Seat ditto
10 ditto Wove Wire Spring Mattresses.
Ex SIR WALTER RALEIGH-
87 cases Assorted Bedsteads
60 ditto Austrian Bentwood Chairs
10 ditto EnglishjBedroorn Chairs.
Ex GULF of ST. VINCENT-
30 cases Toilet Glasses
2 tons Curled Hair.
Ex SALAMI8—
74 cases Half-tester Bedsteads
10 ditto Folding Chair Bedsteads
10 bales of White Cotton Flock.
Ex EYVOR—
750 bales best cleaned Java Kapok.
Ex CYNI8CA—
10 cases Black and Gold Bedsteads
15 ditto French Bedsteads 1
5 ditto Rowcllffe’s Wove Wire Mattresses
20 ditto Four-post Iron Bedsteads
10 ditto Children’s Cots.
Ex GLENFINART-
10 bales Feathers
30 ditto Curled Vegetable Fibre
30 cases 3ft. 6in. Stump Bedsteads
40 ditto Bedsteads, all sorts and sizes.
Ex IMBERHORNE—
44 cases Bedsteads, Hn. and 3in., all sizes.
Ex CEDRIC THE SAXON—
30 cases Austrian Bentwood Chairs,
Ex ALTCAR-
102 packages, consisting of
Wove Wire Mattresses
Bedsteads
Curled Fibre, &c., &c.
Ex CHRISTIANA THOMPSON, to arrive—
54 cases of Iron Bedsteads
10 ditto Brass ditto.
Ex AIK8HAW, from New York-
150 coses of Chairs.
Ex PHASIS—
73 cases assorted Bedsteads.
Ex HERE WARD-
10 cases of Nickel-plated H.T. Bedsteads.
The above 18 shipments having been specially
selected and purchased by me for prompt cash
during my recent visit to America and England at
exceedingly low prices, and I can offer you any of
the above goods at less than auction-room prices.
Thanking you for past favours, and soliciting a
continuance of the same,
I remain,
Yours faithfully,
J. LAWLER,
608, George-street, Sydney,
Iron
m
|IBBS, BRIGHT & CO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Shi
ping and Commission Agents, *
ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNBDINi
1S558S? g5ffil°s^ s Ns & c l°on^n erpool bmst ™
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY : HONGKONG.
DnsfhnR and Company (Limited)-Portland Cement.
Ihe Tunnel Portland Cement Company (Limited)—Portland Cement
"“ ra^T&WwM“Xi y & m &i.^K 0 S U » h ” P0r “^ H0r^“-“ar «rtl<«
Thos. Glover and Company, London-Patent Dry Gas Meters. g 3 ’ * c -’ &Q *
Vivian imd Sons—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penyrorsedd Slate Company (Limited)-Bangor Slates.
e fl »£ 8Uver Company, San Francisco-Quicksilver.
1 els and Company, ot Patras and Corfu—Currants.
Thos. Boll and Co.—English Hams, Bacon, &c., &c.
wl 08 i s , Pre serying Company, Victoria-Jams, Jellies, Pickles. Sauces &c
DC France - Bar * Rod ’ and Miller Plates.
Thos. Perry and Son, Bilston-Fire-resisting Safes.
Drybrough and Co., Edinburgh—Ale.
Brunton and Co., Redruth-Patent Safety Fuse.
Thos. N. Hunt—Port Wine.
Dubos Freres, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablls, Sauternes
isssFi* Co „ C0I nrM „ Grah>n
Victoria— James Fry and Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson W3t ’
South Australia.-W. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H, Hincks.
SB- INDENTSC0„.,„ Offl0
TRICYCLES.
JUST ARRIVED, a large shipment of the
celebrated
Excelsior Tricycles,
For Ladies or Gentlemen.
E3T" Send for lists and TERMS of Payment.
Repairs executed by experienced Coventry
bicycle makers.
BAYLISS, THOMAS & CO., 68 King Street.
THE SMITH AMERICAN ORGAN,
No less than 77 landed, at from 12 to 90 Guineas.
The 12-GUINEA ORGAN, 5 octaves and knee* swell, is a
’ marvel of cheapness.
The “ CONNOISSEUR ” ORGAN is a marvell ously brilliant and sonorous (o-
■Ion., Music*,,., and for ChuroO, cKSSES '» «
The SMITH ORGANS were awarded the Only First Prize
at the Melbourne Exhibition.
Price Lists, for CAbH or EASY TERMS, on application to the Sole Agenfo
dfc BISTJCE,
281 GEORGE STREET.
THE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO.
are the largest consumers of American
■ Leaf in the colonics, hence the FIRST
position for quality is assigned to their Twist
and Flat Tobaccos —Yankee Doodle, Conqueror, Sir Roger (thick
twist), R. C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture, and others.
CIGARETTES.— Their CONQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold an equal position.
& 8., Importers of Pipes of every kind, Cigars, and all Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods and Sundries
&
A CUP OP GOOD COFFEE
IS WHAT YOU WANT, BUT SELDOM GET.
THEN ASK YOUR GROCER OR STOREKEEPER FOR
A. G. Churchwooa’s Crown Brand
BLENDED FROM THE FINEST MOCHA. JAMAICA, and CEYLON BERRIES.
Heeslian,
STAR & GARTER HOTEL
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
As no expense has been spared in the erection of the Hotel premises, M. K. gnavanteae country
visitors and others the best accommodation, combined with civility.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH,
On GOLD, VULCANITE, &c., 7
made on the most approved modern principles.
Warranted to combine fit, comfort, and durability,
with perfectly natural appearance.
All dental operations performed with skill.
Teeth stopped, and extracted painlessly.
Charges strictly moderate.
MARSHALL BROTHERS
SURGEON DENTISTS,
lOO Market-street, near Hyde Park.
Best work and best materials only.
SEARL & SONS,
NURSERYMEN, SEEDSMEN, BOUQUET 15115 '
And Artistic Floral Dinner-table Decorators,
3 and 5 GEOROE-STREET MARKETS, STDNBT:
Also,
BLAIR ATHOL NURSERY, PETERSHAM.
Pelargoniums now In full bloom. Inspect* 00
Invited.
"OAPER KNIVES. Ham Knives,
TiTnixroa inof o rri t’fwl F fr _ REJiNETTi aLaB®


VALUABLE TRUTHS.
“ If you are suffering' from poor health
or languishing on a bed of sickness,
take cheer, for
Hop Biftars will cure you.
, “ If you are simply ailing, if you feel
weak and dispirited, without clearly
knowing why,
Hop Bitters will Revive you,
,. 1 If jou are a Minister, and have over-
• j yourself with your pastoral
duties, or a Mother worn out with care
and work,
Hop Bitters will Restore you.
1 inhIn^T u are , a man of l>u8ine«s or
labourer weakened by the strain of
• y° ur every-day duties, or a man of let-
ters, toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strenghten you.
• K?°i U , are 8u fforlng from over eating
• nkln *'’ any inmscretion or dlssl-
• Iw 0 ?’ ? r ,l Z e young and growing too
as \b often the case.
Hop Bitters will relieve you.
‘ fnrrV nl* £ h ° WOrk 8hop, on the
• at tho dc8k > anywhere, and feel
• fn,r t y ol lf ®y w', n uoous cleansing, ton-
■ |£|’ or stimulating, without inttoilcat-
Hop Bitters is what you need.
■ are ol( ?’ ar . ld your blood thin
and Impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
unsteady, and your faculties waning.
Hop Bitters will give you new Life
and Vigour.
tP9 Pis an elegant, heal-
thy, and refreshing flavouring for sick-
room drinks • imnnm ur,ito» ..
drinks: impure water, etc., reu-
aerlng them harmless, and sweetening
'Uth. and cleanftiriLr at/mmoii ”
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or do
tors’ bills to pay.
HOP BITTERS
j? Pleasant, and Refreshing Plavourlt
lor sick-room drinks and Impure Water, renderii
tag thestomach 8Weetenln * taC mouth * and dean
GRAHAM,
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment,
643, late 531, Ooorge-street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,—I respectfully beg leave to brim
under your notice the superior style and fit of ou
Trousers, which are cut on the same unorrini
principles as those which have made the name o
Hill, Bond-street, a household word amongst tin
leaders of fashion In the world's metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ftp
pearance, perfect freedom either in sitting, riding
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor braces
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain tboli
posltlon in every attitude of tho body.
They are designed to fit the corpulent as well
tho slight figure, and are engaged to give to all the
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial will suffice to establish their claim
on your patronage.
I am, Sir,
Your obedient Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM.
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT, 1 WEAK
NESS, &i,
PRICE.. .. „ .. 3a. 6d,
Prepared by A. G. KEBBLEWHITE, Chemist. Ac
43 BRSK1NE STREET*.
Sold by W. H. SOUL, and all Chemists.
AH ALCOHOLIC LETTER.
A FAR-WESTERN PUBLICAN DESCANTS ON
THE LIQUOR QUESTION.
BtrtiiiETiN’, —I'tn an honest publican ;
hat’s what I am, straight. Fair doos is my motto,
t am uot one of those men you read about who
1 ake fortunes by lambing-down. Such men bring
'’’race upon our profession—a profession honor-
ble and dignified, since her Majesty ennobled—
1 think that’s the term—one of its distinguished
Ojaments. Mind you, there is much odium
thrown upon publicans which they don’t deserve.
Half the funny stories about their treatment of
hashmen are simply fables, dressed up in new
toggery from time to time, and palmed off upon
t ho comic column men of the weekly papers, such
“ Egles,” and others.
88 ' • • •
yow I ask anybody : How often have you
that yarn about the swells drinking pain-
teller in the coffee-room while the sawyers were
f K ,Vnnir drunk on naphtha and kerosene In the bar ?
iaw it in Ballarat m 1850, in New Zealand in 1863,
. Queensland in 1873, and in the Australasian in
IS,? The story of the bush publican, who by
■trategy and disguise wheedled the shepherd out
f his cheque intended for the savings bank, did it
not figure as a brand-new joke in one of last week’s
„IitrftDolitan papers, and is it not older than the
™j on v of Queensland ? Admit it I do, that there
many spiders whose webs are their bar par-
Inurs and that ruin a poor fellow body and soul
»hev will without compunction, but it is not fair
ito class ms all under this category.
You don’t know O’Bralligan ? He is just a
-oner publican. I believe he is really fond of the
working men, and they adore him in return. He
hates like poison, all squatters, magistrates, police-
men and any man who wears a coat or a collar. In
Stentorian tones be expresses his opinion of these
members of society, and, ns you may be sure, he
tarnishes his uncomplimentary allusions to their
tailings with many oaths and strange expressions.
The working man, ns a rule, enjoys this sort of
thing. It pleases him to hear the white-collar men
ridiculed and reviled, even though there be
amongst them those who are known as honour-
able unassuming gentlemen, who have most
.earnestly endeavoured to do their duty by those in
vheir employ. But O’Bralligan has at them all.
Proclaims himself the true friend and champion
of the working men in a loud voice, and so ear-
nestly reiterates the assertion, that gradually it
becomes to be believed. The working men spend
their cheques gallantly and generously across his
bar, convinced that they are thus giving him some
slight return for his advocacy or their interests.
The simple Inquirer might ask them in what par-
ticular way O’Bralligan had proved himself tneir
friend, or to what extent they had benefited by
his friendship; but it is doubtful if they could
specify any particular act of care or attention, ex-
cept that wnen they were “half seas over” he
generally contrived to introduce sufficient water
into their whisky to prevent them becoming in-
toxicated too early in the day.
♦ ♦ *
For ray part, I have not what is called the
gift of the gab. Unlike O’Bralligan, I cannot stand
behind my bar all day and all night keeping in
conversation a half-dozen semi-sober shearers.
But I treat them well, and they know it. There
was Woolgar Jack, last week, entreated me to
keep his cheque for him, and let him know when
it was cut out. Didn’t I beg and implore of him
to place his cheque in the hands of the police
magistrate, or even the senior-constable, and
draw from them as he required it? But he would
not. Then I gave him a little book and entered
down in it every day what he had spent, and made
him audit it every morning when he was sober.
Was it not notorious that I forbade any of the
boys from having any more drink supplied to
them after they had shown the least sign of
approaching intoxication ? Did I not, with
tears in my eyes, warn them against ex-
cessive drinking, and the folly of spending
all their hard-earned wages in such a sense-
less manner, and go down on my knees and
beg of them to invest at least three-fourths of
their £80 cheques in buying land, or making it a
fixed deposit in the bank ? Is it not a well-known
fact that I would not sell them inferior liquor,
butalways good, wholesome spirit, possessing the
minimum quantity ol adulteration ? Was ever I
known to turn a penniless swagman from the
house ? Did 1 never give any of my old customers
a square feed and a pound note to help him on his
road? When men worked for me, fencing, well-
sinking, or what not ; will not they bear me wit*
ness that I discouraged them from anticipating
their wages by drinking, or shouting for others,
during Saturday night or Sunday ? Ah, but my
house (the Shearers’ Fleece) was the model hotel,
the true bushman’s home, the Arcadia of Western
Queensland. I think you will admit my claim to
be considered an honest publican, the bushman’s
true friend.
* * *
Concerning my stock-in-trade, few coun-
try publicans can boast of having possessed such a
complete set of pure and wholesome dm— liquors—
as were displayed upon the shelves of my bar. It
is a fact that some foolish publicans still keep
only the one cask of rum and a case of fruit salt,
but I am happy to be able to say now that four
publicans out of five in the Central Queensland
district have adopted my plan of preparing all
their own alcoholic liquors. I do not claim that 1
am the originator of this economic ann philan-
thropic system, but I believe that to me the honour
belongs of having first Introduced it into this part
of the country, and all who have adopted it speak
in laudatory terms of its economy. Carriage rates
being, at the present time, £38 per ton from the
nearest port, and nobblers selling at one shilling
each, will give some idea of the profits to bo made
from home-made brands of spirits.
* • ♦
Of course, as everyone knows, the princi-
pal ingredient required in the manufacture of
alcoholic drinks is spirits of wine. This I could
obtain of a strength many degrees above proof.
Water was plentiful, and with a few shillings'
worth of drugs all sorts of captivating liquors
were produced. Japonica or saffron and sweet
nitre for Martell’s or threostar brandy; treacle or
soaked ration sugar for the genuine Mackav rum,
or jalap root for the West Indian article. Fennel,
oil of juniper, and Strasburg turpentine made a
capital gin, with white sugar or honey added. As
Jrale, however, bushmen do not care much about
these liquors, whisky being considered the best for
the climate and the most wholesome. I consider
jnyself an artist in the preparation of whiskies. I
nave my pet bottles with labels most religiously
Preserved from dirt or decay, so that every con-
noisseur has his particular and favourite brand
when he asks me with a knowing leer
J®, trot it out. It is very gratifying to
ts j . e pleased expression of their faces and
the decided smack of tongue against palate as they
swallow my artistic preparations.
♦ * *
The only trouble I have is that brand suc-
brand s 0 quickly that no sooner Is one
established in favour than another is ready to
°dpplant it. The brand of whisky that was in
everybody’s mouth a year ago, where is it now ?
£orne has hero superseded Kinahan, which in its
Aurn has retired in favour of Koyal, and a dozen
Reseeding blends; while Walker is in thlsdistrlct
#!#Pttrently walking off in favour of a new aspirant
ily the public flavor. But my whiskies have lived
7V®dgh all changes. With a judicious mixture of
•cochineal, sugar and caramel, and of course spirits
} ne and abundance of water, I produce Irish
: 1 Impart the odour of the mountain
jjjvher to Scotch with a few drops of creosote, and
oocy is created by a solution of starch ; with
delicious Wallace Blend, I have charmed
•wany a Scotch shepherd (and their masters, too,
for that matter), nor have they known it owed
its excellence to a decoction of tea, oil
SL ™ Q * r F, ee . n - 8 P ir 'ts of chloroform.
C TH, in . inK three quarts of spirit to twelve
gallons of what cordial manufacturers call cider,
with cassia, mustard, and sugar; and port (with
any quantity of bark from the beef-wood tree),
there is occasionally some demand for, but not
much, and in my cellars I have two or three casks
sii pen^n,r i ag L e ’” Occasionally the swells
demand claret for breakfast in the hot weather,
and here is my full receipt for that very popular
and refreshing beverage (price, here, 14s. a bottle):
Cider cordial. 6gals.; spirits, 2gals.; Clearwater,
ogals.; powdered catechu, 2oz.; colour with beet-
root and bark of any Queensland tree of the
blood-wood or beef-wood species. If not suffi-
ciently sour, add two drops of sulphuric acid per
gallon to suit the taste.” Champagne at 30s. a
bottle costs me more for corking than for the
iiquor. Water, honey, mustard, yeast, vanilla,
ambergris, with one pint of spirits to one gallon of
water makes oh such beautiful flzz 1 and will pro-
duce more speeches and headaches than you
would expect at the price. In the manufacture
of these wines and spirits I am honest. I never
use fusel oil.
* * ♦
To elevate, but not to poison, my fellow-
f?an is my object in life. 1 can’t pitch politics
like O Bralligan, and entertain the swells like Lush-
ington Shantyman, who runs the tip-top hotel
here; but I have a genius for liquor-mixing, which
I hope and trust has made me respected and be-
loved by that section of Australian society with
whom I am most intimately acquainted. Should
you ever find yourself in this district, I trust you
W1 11 not refuse the hospitality of my humble house,
and if you are disposed to try a magnum of deli-
cious home-made cnatto maggo —
Mr. Sutler's memorable declaration that
no unjust Influence was ever considered in the
making of Civil Service appointments under the
righteous regime of Parkes, seems somewhat at
variance with Mr. Stuart’s unqualified assertion at
Newcastle, that “the main secret of appoint-
ments for years past has been political influence.”
A little while ago, a certain M.L.A. openly stated
that a teacher had been promoted because some-
one owed him £40, lost at billiards. The archives of
the Post and Telegraph Departments, if searched,
would show a good many cases whore old servants
have grown bald by juniors walking over
their heads. Only a few weeks since, it is alleged,
a suburban railway stationmaster, receiving some-
thing like £150 per annum, was pitchforked into a
£300 billet, over the heads of deserving men who
have been more than a quarter of a century in the
service.
“Little girl, where is your father?" “Poor
papa died two years before I was born."
There is a tide in the affairs of the bank-
clerk, which, taken at the flood, leads on to gaol.
The constable who arrested Ah Foo for
hen-stealing, is now known as the Asiatic oollarer.
De la Ferriere says: “ Marriage is the true
road to paradise.” Wonder If he believed in pur-
gatory ?
A boarder at a Louth (N.8.W.) hotel, the
other day, ate 34 eggs right off the reel, and then
asked for more.
The man was a New Zealand legislator,
named Main, duly elected by the suffrages of his
enlightened constituents. He was delivering an
Impassioned speech on the wrongs of the local
Governments, and on the fact that one Minister in
particular had turned against them. The speech
wound up thus “ Coesar, falling at the foot of
Porapey, exclaimed 'et tu quoqut I’” This hap-
pened some time ago, and it was thought then that
Mr. Main’s history was a trifle rusty, and his
scholarship limited. There must, however, have
been something like genius at the back of the
remark above quoted : for though Mr. Main and
his oratory have passed into oblivion, this sentence
remains to posterity, monumentum cere perenniua.
Poor old Simpson, who for many years
past has been the mainstay of the Hobart Mer-
cury, was obliged to retire some months ago
through Ill-health, and is in a very precarious
state. Mr. Nicholls, formerly of the Baccarat
Star, has now been appointed editor. Simpson’s
editorials were dry, but peppery; the leading
characteristic of Nicholls’ Hobart productions, so
far, seems to be dryness without pepper. The
sub-editorship has fallen on Mr. Ings, who, until
lately, occupied a similar position on the N.Z.
Times. But as the experiences and sympathies of
the Mercury proprietors are bounded entirely by
Hobart, George Augustus Sala, G. U. Sims, and ail
the rest of them, wouldn’t be able to make the
Mercury look a bit more lively than a funeral
notice.
Writes a Melbourne correspondent, who has
recently arrived from Canada “The pretty little
story in an American paper, of an arrangement
having once been made between Hanlan and
Courtney, won’t hold water. It is a fact that a
very cunning little c6terie, in Toronto, have for a
long time been ‘disgusted’ with Hanlan’s slaight-
forwardness. His grand chance forgoing ‘crooked’
was in his first match with Trickett. This Toronto
division begged and prayed of him to ‘give away’
the race and make a magnificent haul, by a return
match on Australian waters, but Hanlan would
not entertain the idea. Courtney has for years
been gassing about as a champion oarsman—on
land ; for years he has stoutly assorted that Han-
In saved hU boat in two, and now we are told
au 8 ba ‘-; kers ’ says that Courtney
f himself, because the Canadian declined to
lose the race, as arranged.”
When the telegraph informs us that some
struggling boundary-rider or wandering swags-
Queensland has been cruelly butchered by
the blacks, we are occasionally at a loss to know
why the natives In certain districts, so far from
welcoming civilization with all its advantages,
appear determined to reject It, and make spear-
holes in its evangelists. A “ traveller,” writing to
us from that colony, turns a bull’s-eye of incandes-
cent electric lights upon the subject. Ho tells us
that what passes before his eyes reminds him of
old South American experiences. If so the
wonder why so few native Indians reside on
that continent must gflve way to the greater won-
der why any are to be found there at all.
Near Kiabra Creek” our traveller met a young
swell and a black tracker. They were seeking a
young gin who had bolted from the former.
Round the neck of the tracker’s horse were a trace-
chain and a padlock. They were to make thi lady
(if found) comfortable for the night by securing
her to a tree. Two days previously the traveller
encountered a station-manager and a stockman.
The former had a loaded revolver, and his subor-
dinate a murderous-looking waddy. They were
anxious to fall in with a “nigger” who —wanting a
wife (poor fellow)—had seduced from their station
a gin whom they employed tailing horses. “Guess
they gave him coffee when they found him,” is
the suggestive addendum of our correspondent. It
is disheartening to think that no matter how well
you treat these people they turn on you when
they get a chance.
The Jesuits of the “Church of the Imma-
culate," Hawthorn, Melbourne, recently held a
“grand drawing of prizes” in aid of their institu-
tion. The peculiarity attaching to the event did
not consist (as might bo imagined by those who
drink to “the pious and immortal memory,” etc.,
and to the eternal damnation of “our holy father
the Pope,") that some wily Jesuit had been getting
up a lottery on the lines of a Melbourne racing
sweep, nailing up a bogus result-list outside Tat-
tersall's, starting a book on a Melbourne Cup, and
buying up a favourite with a view of running him
a “stiff-’un” on the only day of the year which
shakes the nerves of genial Joseph Thompson,
Esquire, and his perky little brother, Barney. The
prize list was a most unecolesiastical document.
The prizes aforesaid were, for the most part, the
gifts of the faithful, and formed a very queer
medley, indeed. For instance, No. 40 was “a
case of brandy,” and No. 1!) “ a Douay
Bible”—the combination recalling the shirt-collar
poet’s “ rum and true religion." Then No. 47 was
“a flock of sheep”—which in all probability be-
longed to the reverend fathers and were identical
with those members of their congregation who
had coma down below store*condltlon In Lent, and
had been blessed well shorn—so that they wouldn't
pass muster either at the butcher’s or at the fell-
monger’s. We’re glad to see that the Melbourne
ecclesiastics are dropping into the ways of their
Sydney brethren. The time is evidently not far
distant when they will run a holy pig-auction, a
troupe of beatified nigger minstrels, and a sacred
Punch-und-Judy Shew in 8t. Patrick’s Cathedral.
It was O’ConneU’s opinion that, if one
Irishman were being roasted and somebody was
required to turn the spit so as to warm him im-
partially all over, another Irishman could always
be reckoned on to volunteer fortho job. Similarly,
when you want an objectionable spoke put in the
medical profession’s wheel, you may depend on a
doctor to accept the contract. At last meeting of
Sydney Hospital committee, tho question of fees
for post-mortems and inquests elbowed its way to
the front. These foes at present swell tho funds of
the institution, and it was suggested that tho
course pursued kept up as much irritation among
tho house surgeons as a neglected sexton. Then
Dr. Cox (as reported in the papers) said that, if tho
fees went to the performers, “a desire might
spring up to have too many Inquests.” Tho deli-
cacy of the hint Is only to be equalled by its sug-
gestiveness. It was received with a “ hear, hear ”
y the Board—a reception which might bo fitly, if
vulgarly, described as “ rubbing in ” to the stipen-
diary staff. As the system of allowing tho fees to go
to tho operators is of universal application among
our Southern neighbours, as well as among com-
munities of far greater importance, tho expressed
suspicion of Dr. Cox, and of those who ap-
plauded him, is of more than local application.
It touches most Australian infirmaries. Surely
it would still depend upon the Coroner to order
an inquest if ho thought tho surroundings of the
case demanded it? To have a “ noticeable increase”
in inquests it would, therefore, be necessary for
tho Coroner and the medicos to play Into each
others hands and share the plunder. In Victoria,
where, as we have already said, the surgeons are
allowed the fees, tho question of having too many
inquests has not, so far, cropped up. It has been
all the other way. If anything, those Inquiries
have been too few. But hr. Morgan (as reported)
made a remark even more damaging. He said
that “during the time tho medical officers received
those fees their duties were performed so very
badly that tho hon. Medical Board deemed ft
wise to recommend the adoption of tho system
now in force. Now, the medical officers did not
receive those fees, and, therefore, they were not so
ready to run away and neglect their proper duties.”
Wo cannot say whether it is customary in Sydney
for young professional men to “grin” at and
“ bear” aspersions like these, but wo know places
where—-(this sentence can bo completed accord-
ing to teste).
Chawles says his pyurl is‘‘simply
irrisistable. ’
It seems to run in the family, for he finds
her dad is simply irrisistable also.


Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above Is p„™
aud taken at bod-time. ® made hot
®*PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6s. PER IMPERIAL QUART
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single iottli Delimit,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
ScL
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY Pm?-r
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER, ° ET
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at
other establishment in the world.
C. W, ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome of all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELISH WHISKY,
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
la. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
3s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR PALE BRANDY,
6s. 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS]
Market Street, Sydney.
WOOL! WOOL! WOOl!
Season 1883-84.
HILL, CLARK & CO.,
SYDNEY.
THE WOOL GROWERS OF NEW SOUTH
WALES AND QUEENSDAND..
THE rapid approach of the incoming wool
season reminds us to tender our thanks for
the very liberal support which has been accorded
to us during past years ; and while doing so we
take the opportunity to solicit a continuance of
the same support in the future which we nave
enjoyed in the past.
On referring to our circular issued last year we
find that we therein anticipated a large increase in
the quantity of wool which would be sold in these
colonies, and the result proved that we were cor-
rect. We also predicted that the prices obtained
in the colonies would be in favour of those growers
who sold in the
LOCAL NAUKET,
and this also has been fully borne out by facts.
We are also glad to say that this market an
through the last season was extremely active, ana
the large quantity of wool sold proves that
SYDNEY
is fast becoming, what It is destined to be in future,
the
WOOL MARKET OF AUSTRALIA.
We have therefore no hesitation in urging uP|*j
growers the advantage of first offering their
here, where buyers from all the naanufactn, k
countries of Europe and America attend tosupi i
their wants from
FIRST HANDS.
Failing sales in Sydney, we are prepared
our London Agents, making liberal cash au va
When sales are effected,
OUR CHARGES
arc made on as low a scale as possi b I e. and a I w ck>
offered in our Warehouses, and not sold, is a j
only to the nominal chaige of
ONE SHILLING PER BALE,
which covers receiving, delivering, weighing,
storage accommodation. .
Our Warehouses arepartiularly wol] Hg ■ of
are most conveniently arranged for tne u p *
wool, in any quantity, to the greatest ad\ a
The most careful attention is given to
of every lot, both large and small, so that
will be sold under the full market value- j
Way-bills and all further information forwa
upon application.
HILL, CLARK AMD CO-,
WOOL WAREHOUSES,
CIRCULAR QUAY.
Offices: 129 PITT STREET, STONE**
IT CONQUERS PAIN.—HE ADVISES HIS
PERSONAL FRIENDS.
“ Glen View, Darlinghurat,
“ August 17,1 m.
“ Messrs. Publishers Bulletin, Sydney.
“ Dear Sirs,—It gives me great pleasure to say, in
the most unqualified manner, that I have found
St. Jacobs Oil the best preparation for Rhematism,
Gout, and other pains, that I have ever used or
known. A member of my family was suffering
from a severe attack of rheumatic gout both in the
hands and feet. The pain was most excruciating.
I suggested her using St. Jacobs Oil, and am pleased
to say the result was of a most satisfactory charac-
ter. After one or two applications the pain en-
tirely left, and up to the present have had no
return of the trouble. I look on St. Jacobs Oil
as a universal panacea for all kinds of aches and
pains. I have advised many of my personal friends
to give it a trial, and have heard from them that
nothing they had ever used did them so much good.
It is, without doubt,the only Household Remedy
of modei - n times, and I shall always keep a bottle
within reach.
“I remain, dear Sirs, yours faithfully,
“J. R. Dreavett,”
NOTE,—Mr. DreAvett is the well-knoivn town
buyer for Messrs. 8. Hoffnung and Company, Pitt-
street, one of the largest and prominent firms in
all Australia.
HOW A USELESS ARM WAS RESTORED IN
TEN MINUTES, or the experience of Edward L.
Green, Esq., GoA r ernment Sheriff at Auckland,
N.Z.
“Auckland, New Zealand, August 16, 1883.
“ Messrs. Publishers Bulletin, Sydney.
“DearSirs,—I have great pleasure in stating I
had occasion to use St. Jacobs Oil for an old injury
I received to my shoulder in June, 1883, and from
that date until July 10th last, I could not use my
arm, and found great difficulty in Avriting. I ap-
plied to medical men and used all sorts of liniments,
but Avithout any benefit; but 1 had not used St.
Jacobs Oil more than ten minutes before I felt the
beneficial effect, and I can Avork Avith my saw or
spade as Avell as ever I did, and can strongly recom-
mend this oil to any one suffering from muscular
ailments. You can make Avhat use you please of
this letter for the benefit of others.
“ I remain, dear Sirs, yours, &c.,
“Edward L. Green, Sheriff.”
St. Jacobs Oil. the great German remedy, con-
quers pain. Sold by Druggists, Chemists, and
Medicine Dealers throughout the Avorld. Price in
New South Wales, half-a-crown a bottle. Direc-
tions for using la 11 languages.
ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney,
Wholesale Depot for N.S.W.
In Persia, we read, man look upon their
mothers-in-law with much favour, and as the
guardian of the virtue of their wives. Some
preventives, like some cures, are worse than the
disease.
Mr. Charles Harrison recently delivered a
lecture in Candelo School of Arts on the “Duke
of Wellington’s career in Spain and Portugal.”
The hall was crowded to excess, the bulk of the
candel-lighters being under the impression that the
“ Book ” was the name of a bull.
The robbery of bullion from the Commer-
cial Bank, of Melbourne, was a most inglorious
“ fizzle.” The prisoner certainly deserves much
sympathy; ’tls hard to be deprived of a snug for-
tune in the unceremonious way that he was, and
to be made, too, the instrument tor the accom-
plishment of his own ruin, in-so-far that he had to
Eoint out where the ingots were concealed. How
itter must have been his reflections upon the
altered conditions under which he again looked
upon the “root of all evil.”
“ Cl ories of human greatness are but passing
dreams
And shadows, soon decaying ”
exclaimed Corbett; and turning sorrowfully to
the sub-inspector, he thus expressed the anguish
of his miud:—
THE INGOT’S liEBUKE.
Cover up that sparkling ingot;
As I gaze 1 hear it say:
“ What a pretty mess you’ve in got!
Why could you not get away ?
“ You have blown a golden bubble,
Which has all too quickly burst;
Why did you not do a double
While you held the swag, at first ?
“ Not a man in all the city,
But will laugh at you, I guess;
Rogues must never look for pity,
When they meet with ill-success.
“ You will now bo sent to prison
(Quickly, too, without a doubt);
Think to what you might have risen,
If they hadn’t found you out!”
A HINT FOR THEIR HONORS .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To Illustrate the difficulties under which news-
papers are published in Russian provincial towns>
it maybe stated ihat the Douskoy Golos, pub-
lished at Nova Tcherkask, is obliged to send its
written copy, and afterwards a made-up copy, to
the censor residing at Moscow. The two journeys,
to and fro, occupy ten days; and, as the type-
setting and printing require six days, sixteen days
arc always spent before a copy gets into the hands
of the public.
“ Hold thy peace, lay thine hand upon thy
mouth, and go with us."— Judges xviii., 19.
A rhyme, a rhyme, we want a rhyme! A
queer task
Juts out before us—we are forced to write
About a Russian Sydney they call Tcher-
kask,
Where things have grown most ultra-Syd-
neyite;
We have it —yes, oh yes, we have it —Beer-
cask
(And empty, too, unhappily, to-night),
Where Russian readers can their leisure
solace,
While waiting for the Tcherkask Douskot
Golds,
By going to spelling bees, and totting sums
up,
Or holding trysts between lone graveyard
walls,
And tearing honey-lipped Imperial Rums
up
To wrap round new-made, harmless-look-
ing balls—
Intended, when the fated moment comes up,
To douse the glim that harsh-tongued
Swinburne calls
“ The rotten corpse-light of the Russian star
That lights towards Hell his bondslaves and
their Czar.”
The way it's done —the modus operandi
By which the paper is brought out (excuse
Our Latin, but we’ve got no English handy;
At least, no English that we care to use
At present; but just give us “ Tamworth
brandy,
. And we become as powder touched with
fuse,
But, having only had a pint ef Guinness
Jqst now, we cork our sentiments within
us)—
Is thisThe matter written for insertion
In this poor Golos must be always sent,
For fear it might contain the least aspersion
Upon the Czar, or hint of discontent
With his good pleasure, or give any version
Of anything from his view different,
To Moscow, where the Polisher and Cleanser
Of News for Alick, called the Public Censor,
Runs his eye over it, and if he sees one
Assertion which he thinks may fail to
please
The Anointed’s eye, exclaims at once,
“ Here’s treason;
’Tis writ that, owing to the rise in grease,
And whale-oil skimmings being out of season,
The Mayor famishes! Ho! Shirtoff! seize
The writer of such Nihilist hysteria,
And book him with next week’s load for
Siberia.”
Then, having blotted from the slavish leader
Some words not quite]a solavish as the rest,
He marks “ Unsuited to the Russian reader”
Against a par. which ventures to suggest
That even Turks have done a manful deed, or
Displayed the feelings of a human breast;
And writes “ Smart copy, but misleading
gammon ”
Against some tale of death from cold or
famine,
And sends the copy back to Tcherkask,
lighter
By many pages, which are kept, no doubt,
So that, if ever the too-candid writer
Goes further, and gets humbugging about
With detonating caps or pans of nitre,
His manuscript may help to bowl him out,
And string him, while much “ God-preserve-
you ” mush is
Spilled round the Autocrat of All the
Russias.
So sixteen days are spent before the peasant
Can lie on empty stomach in his kraal,
And spell out thankfully the tidings pleasant
That—hardly ever since the primal fall
Has Russia been as happy as at present,
Or bad a Czar who was beloved by all
To such extent as is the stainless Chalice
Of Grace they shepherd in the Winter Palace.
By means like these due order and decorum
Is held, where else grave trouble might
arise;
No writer there may sway a mightier Forum,
And give his thought to fifty thousand
eyes :
He knows the sword of What’s-his-name
hangs o’er him,
So weakly bows, and weekly deifies
The Lord’s Anointed with a pica halo,
So lives in peace and gets his bread and
tallow.
Now, Judges, here’s a wrinkle which, I
guess, you
Have never thought of. Don’t you seem
to see
That, save you curb this most presumptuous
Press, you
Will And your dignity is up a tree?
They’ve no respect for your Position, bless
you,
They’ve half a notion, between you and
me,
That they, who each draw but a scribbler’s
screw, are
Almost as smart a style of men as Ytm are.
Don’t you discern they never sing yoxir
praises
As Heaven-sent gniders of the public weal.
But say, while you crawl up with tortoise
paces,
They keep the van with Progress, toe-and-
heel ?
Can’t you perceive that things will go to
blazes
Unless you get a grip upon the wheel.
And steer this country to astate where Press-
men
Will stand, until you bid them move, like
chessmen ?
Be up and doing! Sit astride your Benches
As kings upon their thrones, and make
things hot
With pills to cure Contempt, and bitter
drenches
To check the evil of out-spoken thought;
Build barriers round your strongholds, and
dig trenches,
And let the Moscow principle be brought
To bear—this land can never be a great land
Until we have a Censor—say at Maitland—
To whom all manuscripts for publiqgtion
Must be forwarded, so that he may guard
Against the printing and dissemination
Of anything but literary lard;
Thus, writers would soon learn to know their
station,
And judge the class of matter to discard,
And naught but soft approval of their
betters
Would glow through all the length of coun-
try letters.
The man who runs the Diggeroo Detaileb
Would salivate the screed from Possum-
town,
The spectre steering the Whereatviele
Waieer
Would on his shaky marrowness go down.
And gin-glazed cheeks would everywhere
wax paler,
Anticipating the stern Censor’s frown;
And only sentiments'quite safe and proper
Would cling around the Hagtown Lauda-
num-Stopper,
Just think, your Honors, of the consternation
Of some poor devil whom the mortgagees
Allow to dump promiscuous information
About the time for pruning apple-trees,
Or weaning lambs, among a population
In some wild hamlet many long degrees
From white society, when told his “copy”
(Though somnolent as milk of Orient poppy)
Is quite too Communistic and exciting,
And that the law will really not permit
A reckless genius to go on inditing
Such firebrand articles to show his wit;
And, for the future, every line of writing
That for his pitiful-faced rag is writ,
Must be sent up to Maitland to be sifted
By.one more cautious, if a lot less gifted.
Just picture to yourselves how this offender
Would feel his timid heart within him
shrink
At thought of trusting to such mercies
tender
The splendid product of his midnight ink,
And go and pledge his galley for a “ bender,”
And straight away disguise himself in
drink;
And, next day, packing pannikin and plate
up.
For ever and ever chuck the Fourth Estate
up—
Or it might be that, seeing no chance of
pardon
This side the Murray for the heavy sin
Of saying what he thought, the evil-starred
one
Would cart his little plant across, and, in
The safety of the Vegetable Garden,
“ Sling” Saxon neat, and not be fined a pin,
And freely tell the nature of his grudges
Against Free-traders and Supreme Court
Judges.
But such as stayed and had to to the Boss go
(O, Sladen, here’s a too too complex
touch!),
As does the cowering chief of the Gonos go,
Though ’twere through fifty leagues of
savage bush,
And cart their matter to the latter Moscow,
Would grow as thin as a Good Templars’
lush,
And learn to strew, with only thornless
flowers
Of speech, the pathway of the higher Powers.
A Censorship’s the only thing to read ’em
A lesson on the use of due respect—
That’s just the kind of garden-hoe to weed
’em,
Till what are left conform to ways correct;
Just let ’em have a taste of Russian Freedom,
And then, perhaps, the men of Intellect
Whose minds, compared to some of yours,
look Bounors,
Will grovel in the dust before Your Honors.
‘ Will I hare a little ’ile ? Well, them boots would be better for a rub. Go ahead! ”


WOOL SEASON, 1883-4,
r, Goldsbrough & Co.
(LIMITED),
which are amalgamated The Australasian
la Ajrpacx and Banking Corporation (Limited),
and R. Goldsbrough and Co.,
WOOL & GRAIN BROKERS.
Capital.
£3,000,000.
BFG to notify the WoOlffTOwers of New South
Wales and Queensland that they make
.ral Cash Advances, on favourable terms, on
/hpensuing dip of Wool, and on Station securities.
L**” r m nr*h nlonftiiro in nnnnnnninff that.
” Mve also much pleasure in announcing that
.VJrtr ITT \ DPUATTGC'W of Honlinn- Ilnrhonr
-Jvj’l NfiW WAREHOUSES at Darling Harbour
*22,— ready for the reception and sale of Wool,
a! riion Sales of which will be held every FRIDAY
throughout the season. This department will
lomnin under the control of an efficient staff of
Snorts, who will take charge of and Sell to the
oliJf Advantage all consignments entrusted to the
9 681 ---«■= -urn The Sales of Fat Stock (at
company's care.
nnmUushl, Station and Freehold Properties,
Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, and General
cVofin’n Produce, will be under thesuperindencoof
\ir GEORGE MAIDEN. The Warehouses will be
tin in vailed in the Southern Hemisphere for extent
•nd adaptability to the trade, being replete with
JJrcrv Modern Improvement for the Efficient Dis-
play cf Wool, the sale of which will b conducted
on the Melbourne system. Large and complete
.amnios of each clip will be shown in the well-
hirhmd SAMPLE ROOMS, which comprise the
whole of the upper doors, and as the bulk will be
easily accessible in the various rooms, which are
convenient to each other, the fullest facilities will
be available for inspection, thus ensuring the ut>-
most confidence in purchasing. Prior to offering,
valuations will be made by several experienced
valuators, and their valuations will be carefully
compared before the wool is submitted for sale.
The various lots, no matter how small, will be pro-
tected up to the full market value. As they con-
fine their business strictly to that of SELLING
BROKERS ONLY, the best guarantee is afforded
that mxparcel will be sold for less than its worth,
tfsrtnere’ Lots receive special attention, every bale
and sack in the clip being shown in the Sample
Rooms. Should owners’ expectations not be
realized In Sydney, they have the advantage of
trying the Melbourne market before deciding on
shipment, >b which latter case the Company is pre-
pared to make liberal cash advances at lowest
market rates, and consign to the English, Conti-
nental, or American markets for disposal. The
charges on Wool offered for sale, but hot sold, are
only ONE SHILLING PER BALE, which includes
Receiving, Warehousing, Insurance whilst instore,
and Delivering*
LONDON-156 & 157 LEADENHALL STREET.
MELBOURNE—BOURKE & WILLIAM STREETS.
SYDNEY-4 SPRING STREET.
WRIGHT, HEATON & CO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping , Custom house
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE :
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.8.W.:
Goulburn Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rock
Fuss
Bowning
Blnalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Junee
Culcairn
Cowabee
Narandera
Hulor
Huiong
Carrathool
Hay
Western District, N.8.W.;
Canertee
Bathurst
Blajney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
Nevertire
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblln
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
Northern District, N.8.W.:
Morpeth
Gunnedah
Narrabri
Walgett
Brewarrina
Tamworth
Uralla
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Line:
Brisbane Yeulba
Boma Cambooya
Dolby
Central Line;
Rockhampton Capella
Rogantuugan Comet
fi*ueraid
Northern Line:
Townsville Ra venswood J unction
Charters Towers
Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M’CULLOOH & CO., LIMITED.
Agencies in all parts of the world.
UMBR
LLAS
RECOVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Hare yourUmbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
cuted.
D. & R. BRADFORD,
Ironfounders, General
Blacksmiths, &e.,
"CITY FOUNDRY,”
ST 1 2 ] LIVERPOOL STREET
and at
301 ELIZABETH STREET,
Between Bathurst and Park Streets,
All kinds of Ornamental Castings, Wrought Iron
Palisadlngs, Wrought and Cast Iron Girders, Cast
Iron Water Pipes, Connections, Water and Fire
Estimates given tor all kinds of Ironwork, &c.
W » H. Arte ft otic/ Co.'s Agencies.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, Canter-
bury, Normanby, and Christmas Family Cakes,'
Puddings, Mincemeat, Self-raising
Plum ruaaingB, Mincemeat, self-raising
ASrated Flour, Infant’s Food, Treacle and,
Golden Syrup.
EXCELSIOR MILLS.—Superior Victorian Oat*
Superior Victorian Oat*
DILLON k BUEKO pr IE, dfflorlwi Conlec-
SONS, No. 1 Mottled and Toilet
J. KITCHl
Soaps.
J. F. MTRRNZ1E & CO.’S Coffee, Mustard, Cocoa,
Tea, In &lb. and lib. packets ; dressed Rice,
and Patent Groats.
HUNT & CO.’S PHab Baking PbVdBi’S, Adelaide
Jama Paper Bags, *b.
348 ami M KftNT-STREET, SYDNEY.
BLEND
{tradej
/Collie blend whisk v.-This is a blend
V7 of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTBLL & CO., Sole
Agents.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TTra. d.er t alrer,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was In the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
JOHN DANKS,
IMPORTER OF
Bicycles ill Tricycles
AND ALL THE NECESSARY
Fittings for same,
363 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Foster ’s Bugle Brand.
New South IVa/es Racing Com-
pany’s Consultations
MELBOURNE CUP.
50,000 Shares at 10s. per Share—£26,000.
1st Horse £4000 I Starters £1000
„ 30001 Non-Starters ... 3000
3rd ., 10001
For 149 Horses..
117 Prize Gifts.-266 Prizes in all.
£10,000
1 Prize Gift
3
£4000
„ .. 3000
.. .. 1000
„ at. £500 1000
.. at 350 1000
117 Prize Gifts ...
8 Prize Gifts, at 135 £1000
30 „ at £100 3000
40 at 50 3000
40 „ at 25 1000
£15,000
Application by Letter only, addressed to the Secre-
tary, No. 3 Wentworth Court, Elizabeth-street;
or Box 355, G.P.O., Sydney.
Ail parties are requested to forward Drafts, P.O.
Orders, or Cheques ; if Cash, to register letters,
r * e °t to Shareholders and published in the
Leading Weekly Papers of the Colonics.
The Drawing will take place before a Committee
of Shareholders.
w. BITHNHARD.
Will positively close October 30th.
MaSCOTTE CONSULTATIONS
MELBOURNE CUP, 1883.
10,000 shares at 10s. each..
£5000
1st Horse ..
2nd „
3rd „
Starters ..
Non-starters
Prize Gifts
£2000
1000
500
200
300
1000
£5000
Prospectus on application.
The La Mascotte Company thanks the public fo
their support in previous consultations, and hope
for a continuance of their patronage for this pro
gramme.
Application, by letter only.
D. UNDO, No. 8 Tattersall’s Chambers, Hunter-
street. and Box 723, P.O., Sydney.
Will positively close October 29th.
Tattersall’s Monster Consultations.
MELBOURNE CUP of 1883.
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS at £1 EACH.
First Horse, £5000 ; Second Horse, £2000: Third
Horse, £1000. Starters, £1000; Non-starters,
£1000 ; to be divided amongst them.
MELBOURNE CUP of 1883.
3000 SUBSCRIBERS at £1 BACH.
First Horse, £1000 j Second Horse, £300 7 Third
Horse, £300. Starters, £350; Non-starters, £350;
to bo divided amongst them.
Persons making application are requested U
register their Letters to ensure safe delivery o
same, and enclose addressed stamped envelope foi
reply.
Address— ‘‘TATTERS ALL,” rare of G. Adams
Tattersall's Hotel, Sydney.
“ T) I A M O W D.*
MELBOURNE CUP CONSULTATION 1803.
Capital £10,000 in 20,000 Shares of 10 shillings each
DISTRIBUTED AS FOLLOWS:-
Flrst Horse.. ,.
SewndHorse ..
Third ffotse
Starters divide..
Non-starters ..
! Prizes of £850 each, £500
Prizes of 100 „ 500
Prizes of 50 „ 600
Prizes of 35 „ 500
Prizes of 10 „ 600
£10,000
Application by 1 1 enolosln?
stamp, to
Care of O. Sehiebllch.
Watchmaker and Jeweller,
17 Little Collins-street Bast, Melbourne,
(Near Colonial Bank.)
Prizes paid one day after drawing, and Horse#
paid two days after event.
Result slips posted to each Subscriber, and also
advertised in dally and weekly papers. Shares sent
per return post. Prospectus on application.
Letters containing cash should he registered.
It country cheques, must boar exchange.
N.B.—“Diamond,” In thanking numerous clients
for their support in previous successful racing
seasons, invites their co-operation in the above.
£3000 For 2s. Art. £3000
A COLOSSAL FORTUNE for HALF-A-CROWN
The “GREAT VICTORY ” SWEEP on the MEL
"1IJBI
BOURNE GUP, 1883.
To be Run on the 8th November.
This Gigantic Sweep, offering advantages to the
public never before attempted, is the property of
a bond Me Company with responsible directors'.
CAPITAL: £KJ,000, divided into 80,000 Shares of
3s. 6d. each.
A Iso, over 1000 Prizes guaranteed, and distributed
as follows:—
1st horse ..
2nd horse ..
3rd horse ..
Starters divide
Non-starters do.
20 Prizes at £50
£3000
1000
800
500
350
1000
40 Prizes at £35 ..£1000
100 do, 10 .. 1000
200 do. 5 .. 1000
750 do. 1 .. 750
Total..
£10.000
Not less
We shall send 9 tickets for a pound,
than 2 sent to any single address. Send P. O. order,
cheques, or hank notes. If stamps are sent, add
exchange at the rate of Is. in the pound. Should
coin be sent, register letter. Please send 3d. extra
for membership.
The drawing will take place on the 1st November,
and will be conducted by a committee of 150 Share-
holders drawn from the entire body. The result
will bo posted to all Shareholders immediately
and advertised throughout the colonies.
Tickets sent by return post.
Write at once for prospectus. No charge.
Address—“ VICTORY,”
Care of George Robertson, 94 Bourke-street,
Next Opera House, Melbourne.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
Engllsli Papers and Magazines received by
•very Mall.
ROYAL ARCADE, 196 GEORGE 8T., SYDNEY
I
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALE ALE.
The B E9T ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINK
MERCHANTS.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
aOBERT BUTCHER & CO.
(Late 'William Long),
EST WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Order* receive prompt attention.
X
[0 CONNOI8BUH8 of WHISKEY Sr BRANDY.
W. & A. Gilbey’s CASTLE BRAND WHIS-
Y and L’OR EXTEA1T BRANDY are the
oldest and purest spirits Imported.
TUCKER & CO., Agent*,
877 Georgo-street.
H
UST’S BOOT EMPORIUM, 404 Ghorgb St.,
near King-street.
Gents’ Boots, French Calf or Kid, superior quality,
from 10s. Gd.
Superior Ladles’ Extra High Glace Kid Button
Boots, superior quality, from 10s. 6d.
Ladies’ Evening Shoes, a great variety, from 4s. 6d.
RACING SEASON, 1883.
E. E. JONES,
INTERNATIONAL HOTEL, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE CUP, 1883.
No. 1 CONSULTATION.
—
ENCOURAGED by past successes, I beg to
announce that I Intend having a
SERIES OF CONSULTATIONS
of the fthove, on the usual distribution.
No. 1 is now open, and will close at the earliest
possible date.
I must request immediate application, so that
fortunate holders may have a good opportunity
of hedging.
Addrew---
“JANITOR."
Care of B. E. Jones,
International Hotel, Sydney.
N.B.—For the convenience of Town Clients, a
Letter Box will be found in the bar.
08000 on MELBOURNE CUP.
5W 1883.
The Third Consultation of my 1883 Series.
"AUSTRALASIA” SWEEP,
13,000 Shares, at 9S e*»hi—An even 4, £1.
First Horse
Second Horse ..
Third HorSo
Starters divide ..
Non-StarhHJ
Total, £#w.
£1000 10 Prliies at £W*-£360
300 50 „ 10- 300
350 50 6-350
£1000
, . Grand total, £1)000
The success of former events Induces me to an-
nounce the next on the Melbourne Cup, the
greatest racing event of the year, as above.
Results advertised in leading papers, and for-
warded to all subscribers. A pound secures four
chances not one only. Ten per cent. Is deducted
for all expenses. Applicants are requested to en-
close notes, P.O.O., or crossed cheques (to which
exchange must be added), and 4d. stamps tor reply
and result. Register letters.
Add*i«a-‘* AV .TRALABIA,”
Care of Mr. H. J. FRANKLIN,
Printer and Publisher,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
M
ELBOURNE CUP, 1883
LEVIATHAN “ABAMA8TOR” COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £20,000 in 40,000 SHARES of 10s Each.
624 PRIZES (more or less), £12,730 for STARS,
and £7250 for HORSES.
Plan of Astronomical Distribution:
First Horse (winner of the Melbourne Cup)... £3000
Second Horse 1500
Third Horse 750
Starters (divide) 800
Non-starters (do) ... 1200
First Star £2000 **♦
Second Star 1000
%♦ Third Star 500 *♦*
13 stars of £200 each, 100 stars of £100 each, 20
stars of £50 each, 20 stars of £40 each, 46 stars of £26
each, 100 towns of £10 each, 200 towns of £8 each,
85 towns of £6 each, and “ the comet ’’ £40.
“ Adamastor,’’ in thanking his subscribers for the
liberal support that he has received from them for
the past three years, and in consequence of the
yearly increase of subscribers, finds ft necessary to
double his programme, which he begs herewith to
submit.
All parties are requested to forward drafts, P.O.
orders, or cheques; if cheques, exchange must be
added, and in all cases postage fees; if cash, to
register letter. Application by letter only, ad-
dressed —
“ADAMASTOR,” care of L. A. Pereira, 34
Bourke-street, west, Melbourne; Box 473, G.P.O.,
Sydney; and Little’s Bass Hotel, corner Pitt and
Market Sydney.
P.S.—Results sent to country shareholders, and
published in The Australasian, Age, and Sydney
Town and Country.
jar" Will positively close on SUfcb October,


Bagatelle boards, pm-tabie v- •
sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and VaS 06
O’Connell-strect. utu
B _
O’Connell
DSTEADS, all sizes, at lowest nrinM
a&jar“- “ d ‘SPsaft
drobes. or with smnllor ” I" i-feef-
-X IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUm :
JCj Economic Bedroom Suite, comnristnlT
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing t.Ki War<1 --
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8 rrimS 04 *
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street
HEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots!
Walnut Loo Tables, from 3jb -
cases, fram 35s; Chests Drawers, from 5? ols -
stands, from 10s6d; Tables, from 7s 6d •
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20s;
niers, from 25s; Cedar Sideboards, fror?
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s: Khchen TaKii?
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s fid noVl?
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O'OooneUand r^ A >
Btrcets, Sydney. u and Spno*
85s.
B RADLEY
NEWTON,
and LAMB,
SYDNEY.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion,
able designs in Black and Gold, with sirt a
Shelves. 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
J ust op
Furnitt
streets.
;ure Warehousemen, Spring and O’Conneu
OCCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.,
CHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective design,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb’
O’Connell-street.
E”~ASY OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, for~BE8T
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIH, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLFh
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNFY
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Furniture
Importers, Spring and O’Connell streets,
DRAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLE8
Prices, from 12s fid.
HAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLFL
wlth swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
Full” suites”for dining-room.-side.
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. ON VIEW at SHOWROOMS, O’Connell-
street.
D
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 teet.
JARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Ormolu.
VERY ELEGANT items for Drawing-room.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
SE L F - A D J U S TI N t G EQUILIBRIUM IN-
VALID CHAIRS. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
F| RAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
TURE, Handsome and Ma slve, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
.MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
EDSTE ADS, nickel-plated and black and brass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
► EDGING.—All descriptions at lowest rate*.
B
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rn«*.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell-street.
ASHSTANDS, with marble, 2.5s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
w
GARDEN SEATS, 20s: Verandah Chain.
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
Rattan verandah lounges, 203. brad-
ley, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell.
street. ,
ENT WOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment just opened; many quite ne*
designs. .
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES.
Stools, Desks, &c., Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb, O’Connell-street. ,
ICE CHESTS, all sizes, very superior make. Ex-
amine before purchasing. BRADLEY, N •
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
IRON SAFES, various sizes. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell street*.
JAPANESE BLINDS, for Verandahs, 8 xj, B»;
’9x8,13s; 10x8,15s. BRADLEY. N EM TOM
and LAMB. _______
STEIN WAY NEW YORK PIANOS, the FINEST
in the world. A SHIPMENT juaUanded.
JQIPP’S CELEBRATED PIANOS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB
have received
another LARGE SHIPMENT
R. LIPP and SONS’ celebrated
pianofortes
direct from the Makers, comprmmgi -Vt
GRANDS, LITTLE UPRIGHT GRANDS,
LOON GRANDS, VERY HANDSOME and ol
HIGHEST CLASS FINISH,
WALNUT and BLACK GOLD.
f3F~ WE HAVE NOW THE LARGEST STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA OF
LIPP’S PIANOS
TO SELECT FROM.
WE INVITE INSPECTION.
VATE SALE AT EXTREMELY LO"
FOR PRIVATE
PRICES.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Pianoforte Importers,
O’Connell and Soring street*.
nted and Published by The Bulletin
aper Co. (Limited), 31 Pitt-fit., Sydney,
F
URNITUBB SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
HALL FURNITURE. HATSTANDS, and
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
T IBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
I i TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb, Furniture Importers, Spring and
O’Connell streets, Sydney.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, in EXQUISITE
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
Inspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT, just received, Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
NOVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
Furniture.— the largest stock in
THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB. O’Connell-street.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
some STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
The Victorian Works Department has
gpent £15,000 In attempts to ventilate the Assembly
Chamber, but the sole result, so far, is that seven
or eight hon. members have been killed by
draughts. The public considers that £15,000 is
altogether too big a price to pay for killing so few
politicians, especially when it comes to bo con-
sidered that the draughts in the refreshment room
had a share in the work.
Much has been said and written concern-
ing the question of seats for shop-women. Little,
however, has been heard about the tortures en-
dured by female teachers from the same cause,
until the advent of that gallant bachelor, the
present Minister of Public Instruction. When we
say advent, we mean official advent: for Mr. G. H.
Reid has now been quite a while in this vale of
tears, and is believed by the ladies in the Training
Institution to be at least twenty-two years of age.
But this is all mere trifling. The solid fact is that,
in the majority of schools, young lady teachers
were kept constantly on their feet for ten hours a
day, and for some hours in dusty confined yards,
under, perhaps, a broiling sun. Under the old
system, an inspector has been known, when
he found a teacher sitting on a bench in
what is known as “the shed,” to sneeringly
enquire: “Why don’t you get a sofa and have a
sleep ? ’ But the Honorable the Minister of Public
Instruction has changed all that. It is needless to
say that we cordially approve of the alteration.
However. G. H. Reid being, as we have already
remarked, a celibate, we consider it necessary to
impress on the honorable gentleman’s colleagues
that ho should not be permitted to carry his
gallant proclivities to a Major-Smlthian extent.
The subjoined, from the Mudgbe Post, is
the most deliciously ingenuous thing we have
road since we became bald :— “ The Horsey
Native.— He is, generally speaking, of a spare
build; abouf 5ft. 9in. in height; slightly bow-
legged, caused by being constantly in the saddle.
He wears a hat about the size of a cheese-plate,
and as shallow in the crown (it may be taken as
the gauge of his brains); light tweed coat and
vest; ditto trousers, strapped with moleskin; and
very natty boots. His usual mode of expectorat-
ing is between the opening of the front teeth.
When lighting his pipe, ho holds the pipe-light
between the index and second fingers. This
gives him a chance to display his gaudy solid
gold ring. His conversation is of the horse
—horsey. He generally has his hat cocked
over the loft eye; this enables him to discern
brands at a distance with greater accuracy. He
can relate marvellous stories ; how he sat such
and Such a buckjumper ; how his hat was kicked
off his head. To do him justice, he is one of a
class in which may be found the most reckless and
daring riders in the world. Just as the magnet
attracts steel or iron, so the sight of a horse in-
stantly arrests his attention—his hand stretches out
almost involuntarily to catch the animal. He is
great at running in clearskins, as all unbranded
orses are termed, and though he might never
have been the lawful owner of a horse, there Isa
tacit understanding in the bush that clearskins are
the lawful property of anyone who can catch them.
The horsey native is a bad logician ; prove to
him that he will get seven years for stealing a
horse worth 80s. ; show him that he can
earn it in less than a week; all in vain:
he will chance it. He is a great hand at
finding lost horses, albeit he finds them in a
similar place to where the famous Allan Gregor
found the tongs, viz.. In the right place. He is a
Serfect terror to peaceful farmers, carriers, and
hlnamen; the last, especially, are a perennial
Source of Income to him. A reward soon brings the
lost animal to light. He has very likely taken a
week’s riding out of him. His appearance before
the judge is only a question of time. With all his
faults he is often obliging and good-natured,
and there is a great deal of a certain kind of
manliness about him. His errors are in a great
measure due to his early training. His foolish
parents mounted him on horseback at a very
early age. “Jehnny must have a horse to
find the cows,” pleads his simple mother.
Johnny soon finds other things, such as bells,
hobbles, &c. The way to horse-stealing is soon
made easy. When ‘scarce a man, yet a tender
boy,’John must have money; finding lost horses
soon gives him a supply; this he supplements by
selling one now and then. His skill in driving and
cutting out beasts from a herd would have made
him a chieftain had he lived in the times of
Roderick Dhu. Walking, in his eyes, is a mortal
sin. Said one of these worthies to another of the
same fraternity—’ I’m not going to walk; if ho is
a golden horse I must have him; when you see
one of mine, take him.’ Like the Bathurst hurt
and the Scotch thistle, he will take a long time to
eradicate. Advancing civilization may check his
depredations; but, like the poor, it is just possible
that he will always be with us.— The Man Him-
self.” Every mounted policeman in the country
should paste this in his hat.
Whether the Sandhurst detachment of the
” Harmy” will succeed in picking up on their
march to the New Jerusalem any stragglers from
the great forces of Satan is a question still awaiting
solution. Many people affect to journey even sky-
wards to the music of improvised hymns and
phthisical bassoons. And yet the Salvationists are
doing a good work. They are bringing to the front
some of the nicest legal points that ever gladdened
the heart of a pettifogging attorney, or rendered
a newly-created J.P. prematurely bald. At the
Bendigo City Police Court Messrs. Webster, Moore,
and Wilton climbed up as near as they could to the
roof for the purpose of being above the warring
prejudices raging among the “unkempt,” crowding
and perfuming the body of the “coort,” to see
justice done in the case of O’Flaherty versus
Phillips and Rashe, for “insulting behaviour.”
O’F. is sub-inspector of police. There is a foreign
ring about his name suggestive of green fields and
mud cabins, whisky, potatoes, blarney, and
blunderbusses. Phillips and Rashe are recruits in
the army of the “ Looard.” Phillips holds the
commission of a full captain, while Rashe has not
yet advanced beyond the comparatively humble
rank of full private. So long as the converts kept
themselves to themselves in St. James’s Hall, and
screamed defiance at the “Shamrock,” opposite, the
police did not interfere. But when they started up
view-street howling, waving their arms, turning
“cart-wheels.” and shunting everybody that
came in their road, something had to be done.
Forbearance could stand no longer when, the
whole Array hymn-book having been sung
through, the “Canting” began to improvise—to
compose thoughtful ditties “on the spur of the
moment.’’ Then O’Flaherty and his merry men
took a deal in the game and turned up the
“joker.” It was in view-street that the saints
had the key of their position. On the pavement
was a camp of the ungodly, the occupants of
which expectorated on the kerb-stones and placed
their future hopes on good tobacco rather than on
indifferent harmony, Mr. Brown appeared for the
defence, and his intimate knowledge of law was at
once evidenced by the objection that nobody
proved View-street to be a public thoroughfare.
For over thirty years people have walked, ridden,
drunk, loafed, and flirted in that avenue, thinking
it as much public property as the trade winds, and
now the grounds of their faith are disputed 1 We
believe that, if a meteoric stone struck a Sand-
hurst broker and spread him out as flat as one of
M‘CoU’8 jokes, Mr. Brown would endeavour to
upset the coroner’s verdict until Bobby Strickland
proved that the earth revolved on its axis. This
initial objection having collapsed, Mr. B. argued
that “ the mere fact of jumping in the air, singing
and shouting, was not an offence in the eyes of
the law.” So far as jumping In the air is con-
cerned, it depends a good deal on whether one tries
to jump up or Jump down. To try to jump from
Pall Mall to the top window in the Beehive might
attract attention without causing public Incon-
venience, but to reverse the effort would certainly
be detrimental to the interests of society—unless,
of course, you happen, to be twenty-stone weight
and the directors of all the companies from the
Unicorn Tribute to Dixon’s were standing on the
roadway to break the fall. However, Brown
pulled his clients through, so that the forces of
Zion have once more triumphed over the O’Fla-
berty’eand their “malignant” clansmen.
When a Chinese legislator leaves his native
city to give an account of his stewardship to the
authorities at Pekin, crowds accompany,him to the
gates, where betakes off his shoes. Having bidden
im an affectionate good-bye they seize on his
shoes and, carrying them in state to the chief
temple of the town, place them conspicuously on
the high ahar. Ballarat citizens could not imitate
those simple people without inconvenience. With
Major Smith, at least, the first hitch would be to
find a lorry strong enough to carry back his hoofs,
and the second a temple big enough to hold them.
Bourke is coming to the front in fos ils.
Like the genii that guard the hidden treasures of
the buccaneering Kidd, the spirits of Ihese extinct
vertebrata appear resolved on guarding the hidden
waters of their old-world hunting-ground from the
intrusive boring-augers sent up by the Mining
Department. Bore for springs anywhere west of
the Darling and, instead of water, you will haul up
molars of the “iDioprotodon Australis,” vertebrne
of the “ Megalania prisca,” and crania of pleisto-
cene monsters which when living would gobble up
a life-guardsman, boots and all, or swallow one of
Mrs. Hampson’s sermons without a smile.
Unlike embalming, “ lambing-down is
not yet a lost art. One of the publicans at Bar-
go wlahminabudgeree is a postmaster. The unstrung
nerves, resulting from his rum, he cures by means
of a mixture whose preparation is as great a secret
ns Dr. L. L. Smith’s (fee, by letter, £1—look into
thy heart and write—Humph) “vigour of life.”
Hut no bushman who “sweats” less than £40 has a
chance of tasting the “ elixir.” The other day, a
flask of this restorative was given, as a favour, to
an old swagman whose £50 cheque had tho blue
peter flying from its masthead. A fresh mound in
the local churchyard tolls the remainder of the
story.
From the Avoirs of 29th ultimo: “Walker.
—On the 22nd inst., at his son-in-law’s residence,
Mr. Walter Meeres (schoolmaster), Cheltenham, Mr.
Thomas Walker, late of Sandhurst, the dearly
beloved father of H. A. Walker (representative of
Dudgeon and Arnell), J. Walker (grocer, High-
street, St. Kilda), wife of Mr. W. Meeres, and wife
of Kev. J. Dawborn, aged 77 years. Loving and
good father gone to his longed for rest. Sand-
hurst, Banff, and Chester papers please copy.”
Now, who’s dead ? Is it Walter Meeres, or Thomas
Walker, or H. A. Walker, or Dudgeon and Arnell,
or J. Walker, or the wife of Rev. J. Dawborn?
Which lady or gentleman have we to mourn for ?
The “schoolmaster” must have been abroad
when they wrote this obituary notice.
In France, we gather from a very long
article in the Siecle, M. Boun<5 has Just applied for
a divorce. No Solomon appears in the case. Boun6
applies for a disannexation, on the ground that his
wife, when he married her, was a nun. It appears
that Madame Boun6, who belongs to a very old
noble family of Languddoe, was steadfast in her
devotion to religion and charity till the ripe age
of 38, when she lost her heart while nursing a
young railway clerk through a long illness. As
she was still a very attractive person in spite of
her age, her coarse serge robe, and her huge white
flop enrnette, the young railway clerk reciprocated
her affection, and one day Mdlle. las Bordes sloped
from a convent at Bordeaux, to turn up again with
her enamoured patient in the office of a London
registrar of marriages. A little boy now aged 12,
is the result of the union, which the Court has de-
clared to be perfectly valid, since the lady’s vows
were only or the class which expire at the end or
each year.
We have received a letter from the meek
and lowly bush missionary, Peter Campbell, who is
labouring among the heathen in the wilderness.
Peter’s epistle is fourteen sides long, and breathes
a spirit of the most fervent Christianity from start
to finish. Here is a chunk of the wind-up : “ P.S.
—You ought not to lose your tempers because I
will not tip you with £5—which is all you want— by
way of blackmail. If I paid you £5, you would
praise instead of abusing me. I will never pay
you one shilling except to buy a rope to hang
yourselves with. P.C.” From the foregoing it
will at once be perceived that Peter is rather un-
well at present—something in the diet of locusts
and wild honey, perhaps. However, as wo never
lose a chance of making money in a good cause,
we may at once state that we are ready to smother
our private feelings, and to sit right bang down
on the still small voice of conscience, by taking a
contract to praise Peter for one year for the sura
of £100, cash down.
We hear that the proprietors of a certain
(N.Z.) religious paper have made up their minds to
sell out should a sufficiently affluent and willing
capitalist present himself. It seems that the con-
cern was started for the glory of God and eight
per cent., but the money invested hasn’t reached
the expectations of the promoters. It doesn’t return
enough—though whether the deficiency is in sal-
vation or in the mammon of unrighteousness, we
aren’t prepared to say. Impaling the devil on the
points of clerical pens, and making money by the
. job, didn’t turn out to be quite as easy as it looked,
and not even by combining with it the business of
puffing prize rum were the pious Satan-spearers
able to become anything like grossly or disgust-
ingly rich. It's very hard to serve both Heaven
and Beelzeebub, and runthebank-balancesteadily
up. This reminds us that there’s only one really
successful religious journal in Sydney. Modesty
forbids us mentioning its name.
Major Atkinson and the Hon. F. A.
Whitaker are to be the N. Z. representatives at the
Sydney Conference next month. The latter is an
astute lawyer and singularly wide-awake states-
man. In order to get the “bulge” on him it would
be necessary to arise and go unto your father
hours before night’s candles were burnt out and
jocund day was observed cross-legged on the
misty mountain tops. In big land speculations
and the unrevised text of the “ eleventh command-
ment” ho is open to back himself against the
world—always barring Major Smith, of Ballarat.
The latter boasts that “ Whitaker whipped
creation, and I whipped Whitaker.” The
other N. Z. plenipotentiary is known as the
“ Majah” among bis people, just as Welling-
ton was know par excellence in London,
as “ the Dook.” There might be other “ Majahs,”
just as there were other “Dooks,” but they are
only small fry, whitebait, “ prone trash ” alongside
this three-decker. It was during the last row in
Taranaki that he came to the front and remained
there. He commanded the “bushrangers”—a
determined body of local troops made up of men
most of whom had a stake in the country. This
corps did good service in a description of warfare
unsuited to highly-disciplined regular soldiers.
At the same time it must be noted that
the New Zealand colonists have never done
Justice to the regular troops who cleared the
Waikato Valley for them in 1863—a worn which
they would not have tried, or, trying, accomplished
to the present day. The “ irregulars,” who were
good enough at “ bush-whacking ” and guerilla
warfare, would have never seen the inside of
Rangariri or Te Awarautu. The Maoris, in their
expressive “ pigeon-English,” used to call them
“gammon the sogers.” The“Majah’s” triumphs
in the field were overshadowed by his success in
Parliament. In a N.Z. Cabinet he was as necessary
as the Duke of Wellington when any domestic
squabble sot the servants in Windsor Castle talk-
ing. Like the Vicar of Bray, whatever changes
occurred, he could always be depended on to be
found in the same place. The hole was square, he
(the peg) was square, and nothing short of dyna-
mite could shift him. It was only the other day
ho re-formed the present Ministry, on Mr. Whit-
taker’s retirement. Such are the men who will
represent their colony at the approaching congress.
Woman’s Hate.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MuSed the maiden by the river,
’Neath the vault of starry night;
Pallid was her cheek with weeping,
In her eyes an angry light:
“ No, I never will forgive him;
Should he ask it, ’twere too late;
Words, as harsh as he has spoken,
Change a woman’s love to hate.
“ Oh 1 to think of such a breaking
Of the vows his lips have sworn;
Would to God I’d never mot him,
Would that I had ne’er been born;
All the love he once awakened
Now is changed to bitter scorn.”
S .untering by the star-lit river
Came her lover, sad at heart;
Wildly ran the maid to meet him—
“ Tom, my darling, must we part ?
Whisper, Tom, that you forgive me,
That your love is still the same;
How I hate my burst of temper—
That, alone, has been to blame.”
LEFT IN CHARGE.
“ Now, Bridget, you’ll take great care of the house. I hope you won’t feel too lonely, and that
nothing will be broken,” . . . .
“ Is it lonely, ye mane. Sure, isn’t me cousin, the policeman, and his wife cornin’ every day, and
the childern wid them.”


i
Rew
(!^!?Xgv
| V^A^SSl/to^N j K£
£
339_&3<LM0R^^
r
OPPOSITE POST Of f!C6.
sjLAi<eor2qsGeoPGe stfegt
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
W » C|Scar*ifc
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &o.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET,
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by beat makers.
J LAWLER, 608 George-streot, Bedding Manu-
• facturer, Importer of Brass and Iron Bed-
steads. American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair,
Kapok, and Cotton Flock. Established 1860.
C. B. MODINi,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
TWO SPECIAL PHIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 187SL80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-A11MS AND CUTLERY
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barreUed Breech and Muzzle-Loading- Guns and
Killcs, Revolvers, &c. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at (J02 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
t, N -St So1 ? A Fent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborne ; also Angelo Bor
doni, of Brescia, Italy.
SOHO BAZAAR,
352 GEORGE STREET
(Paling’s Old Premises).
BAZAAR, which has just been OPENED
- . be found to contain a superior assort
raent of
Brie a Brae, Articles of Verth,
Terra Cotta, Chiuaware, &c.,
Tricycles, Erench and German
Model Dolls, Count Harrach’s
Bohemian Vases, Parisian and
Viennese Leather Goods,
Parian Marble Figures,
and all varieties of
FANCY GOODS AND TOYS.
INSPECTION INVITED.
SoIb.o Bazaar
352 George Street.
Hajfmarket Auction Rooms
AND
FURNITURE BAZAAR,
CORN EXCHANGE BUILDINGS,
724 GEORGE STREET.
The cheapest place in Sydney to purchase every
description of Household Furniture.
tSF” HOUSES FURNISHED on the Time-payment
System.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY Instalments taken.
IS?” Open— Mondays And Wednesdays, 9 to 9
Saturdays . . . . 9 to 10
Tuesdays and Fridays . . 9 to 8
JOHN P. LISTER, Proprietor.
MR.
. 17 ROYAL ARCADE.
DUNK,
(Of Paddington)
Begs to inform his old customers and public gener-
No. 17 KOYALARCAU8.
HIs great experience, vi%., J&yeavs, is a gu.vantee
of bis ability to excel all otheio. Remember the
address—
I? ROYAL ARCADE, and
481 Sodth Head Road, Paddington.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
Stock, Station, and Genera / Com-
mission Agents,
114 and 113 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign $ CpHonW Produce.
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
rjlHK MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWAYS PURE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations.
Butter.
This Is either manufactured at their own depot
or obtained from the best butter-makers in the
Southern dairy districts.
Deliveries of milk twice dally, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & ice Co., Limited,
21 HARBOUR STREET.
"W atson AND CRANE,
▼ ▼ SILVER, NICKEL, fc GOLD PLATERS.
BRASS FOUNDERS AND MANUFACTURERS.
OW Electroplated Ware, Cruets, Spoons, and
Forks, Tea Services. &c., re-silver plated equal to
new, at Moderate Charges.
NICKEL PLATING on Brass, Iron, and Metal
Furniture and Fittings of all kinds in Best Style at
I A) west Prices.
JEWELLERY, &c., WELL GILT.
9TKAM. GRASS, & ELECTRO PLAT I NO WORKS,
Aid PITT STREET.
HAWKES AND COMPANY,
y TATTERSALL’S horse bazaar
and _ ' .
SALE YARDS.
CORNER of CASTLEREAGH and HUNTEH
STREETS, SYDNEY,.
Sales Dally, or outside when required.
Horses kept at Livery; excellentaeconnuodalloa
. „ , . , and fodder. 1
All kinds of Vehicles and HorseS on Hire, day
nr or night.
Weddings and Picnic Parties supplied with good
__ carriages.
TRAMS SET DOWN AT TH* DOftR.
Conveyances fitted with Hampers for Excursion
Parties.
Sale, Livery, and Let-out Department entirely
scoarate. > , .
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 4868. '
INCORPORATED by ACT of PARLIAMENT, 1S73
Paid-up Capital *.£,100,000
Reserve Fund . ..£&*,600
Directors *
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.Q., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C. .
George 8. Calrd, Esq. * ,
Hon. Philip Gldley King, M.L.C. *
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G. ' '
Auditors:
Jas. Scroggle, Esq. | Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: | Secretary :
F. A. A. Wilson. I Heqtpr Alien. ,
Branches in New South-Wales:
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redtern, Glraiapibone,
Gosford, Nyngan, and Dourke., ,
London Branch : 168 Leaden hall-street, -
Directors * ->*«.*....»* ■* ,
Edward Chapman, Esq. I Geo. Pelade, Esq.
Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq. '
London Bankers: • , i
The National Provincial Bank,of England
This bank transacts all usual Backing and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wool
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
W
KERR.
Watchmaker
Jeweller,
and
Silversmith.
JJAS JUST OPENED HIS NEW PREMISES.
B44 GEORGE ST RE E T,
Opposite the TOWN lUf-L, ,;
With a magnificent stock of Diamond, Roman
_ __ _ . „ and Vienna Jewellery,
GOLD AND SILVER WATCHES & CLICKS,
Football, Cricketing, and Trophy Speciality.
Note the Address—
544 GEORGE STREET.- , .
JJULL-DOG ALE.—IT is
not tho clewuess
or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALE
that preserves this irarid Mrst in . public
estimation. Common bitter qgude .beers are
made very fine, but no other ? brand has th®
same mellow vinous chmaeter, the fqllndsa on
the palate, and the great 1-eei ‘
BULL-DOG ALE. Consul,
tloned against traders who
>rred
ELL
OOD
uu mu*
PPmllnimi Mi
- eepfngjqualitVN »f the
i.iers are cau-
ho -for the sake of an
1
I M P 8., O/L N
IRONFOUNDER, #
Campkrdown F t pti®ft)RT, •'%
Lambert-street, Carnperdoivn, Sydney,
Manufactures all kinds of ornamental Palisading
Frieze, Fringe, and Brackets, Plain aha Fluted
Columns, Window Mullions, Col (filial OVou Grates
and General (tastings. ** ‘ *
tar-
attended
N.B.—Orders from th<? Jlfluntry punctually
3d to, and forwarded by i-qati, call, ot water
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
A CURE GUARANTEED, *
BRALH
Ninv
TREATIVtE
as
k R. E. C. WEST S NERVE & BRAIN TfREAT-
} MENT. , v
guaranteed specific for hysteria, dizzlng®, con-
ilsions, fits, nervous neuralgia, hcndache, nervous
decay, and death ; premature old, age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain or over-indulgence.
Each box contains one month’s treatment, 5s. a
box, or six boxes for 25s.; sent by hmil prepaid on
31-ice. We guarantee pix boxes to cure
any case. With each order received. 1or«lx boxe^
accompanied with 256., the purchaser .will
the manufacturer’s written guarantee to I'efiuv
tho money if the treatment does But effect a
Guarantees issued by all chemists and. dyuggl
Australia.
« euru
fists 1U.
HOLLINQPALE& SO*.*
JEWELLERS AND WATCHMAKERS,
GOLDSMITHS HALL,
9Q 3KZin.gr-street, S37-d.xa.e3r,
illilJ LMiii L
it
mmx
! * ki.
L-
TT~7
- • -JjT-
nzimi
f i/.h'OLUNCQALC ~W»ran««t* Jt»tuu L
£.J. HO Li IN CO# L£.
KKIiminil
INVITE inspection of their LARGE and
VARIED STOCK In
Gold and Silver Watches,
BRACELETS. BROOCHES, EARRINGS,
Necklets, Lockets, Studs, &o.,
all of the most exquisite designs, and of the
best Coioniai Gold.
| Rotherham’s and Cross’s best
English Patent Lever
Watches from £5 to £10 10s.
Single-stone Diamond Rings, of
the purest water .. ..from £7 to £75.
Ladles’ Sots, Brooches and Earrings, the most
varied stock in the city to select from, in
gold and silver.
SPECIALITY ;
(THE RUSIIMAN’S SILVER ENGLISH
LEVER WATCH,
| well adapted for hard riding, with strong silver
Albert attached, *5. Guarantee given for
two years.
Goods posted free to all parts of the colony.
Watches and Jewellery repaired by efficient
workmen.
ALL WORK GUARANTEED.
E. -Wolff Son’s
To be had from all Stationers & Storekeepers throughout the colonies,
PEAPES asid. SSS-A-3X7"
recently opened large shipments of their now celebrated brand of
Standard Ready-made Clothing.
H * e Q°ods are All Wool, and the cut, 11L and ysrprkmanahip is n,o,t to be expelled anywhere.
tweed suits. THIRTY-TWQ shillings and sixpence.
"stixtt. i PEAPES and SHAW’S. GEORGE STREET.
s1 ANDARD ” TWEED SUITS, THIRTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
«•«. vrrv. PEAPES and SHAW’S, GEORGE STREET.
01 ANDARD” TWEED SUITS, TWO GUINEAS.
. PEAPES and SHAW’S, GEORGE STREET.
S1 ANDARD” TWEED SUITS, FORTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
■ sr .^„ PEAPES and SHAW’S, GEORGE STREET.
31 ANDARD ” TWEED SUITS, FIFTY SHILLINGS.
jj trrp PEAPES and SHAW’S, GEORGE STREET.
PATTERNS of the Tweeds in each price quoted forward on application, together with
for self-measurement, post free.
OVk-nrwl . ® FOR WINTER, in light, medium, and heavy textures, 26s, 30s, 35s.
FLOATS, CUT SPECIALLY , EXTRA LENGTHS, and exceptionally well finished, 42s,
STO'Pnu 8 , 5 ° 8 -
n Vr TWEED ULSTERS, LINED WOOL, 30s, 35s, 42s, 45s, 50s.
• a DRESSING GOWNS, in Scotch Knickerbocker Felt Wool, and Paisley, In great
KF,w R vane ty-
RAILWAY RUGS in Wool, Plain and Fancy Seal, extra sizes, from 15s 6d upwards.
A MAGNIFICENT SHIPMENT OF BAGS.
GLADSTONE’S IN BUFF AND ENAMELLED HIDE
THE EXCELSIOR BRIEF BAG
THE BEACONSFIELD, and a variety of other shapes
Portmanteaus and Overland Trunks, in all sizes.
CHRISTY’S HATS. CHRISTY’S HATS, CHRISTY’S HATS,
ALL THE NEWEST AND LATEST LONDON SHAPES,
In Black Silk, Drau auell. Hard Felts.
Travelling Hats ami Caps, in great variety.
THE TURKISH FEZ. THE TURKISH FEZ.
PEAPUS & SHAW, George-street. PEAPES & 8HAW, Qeorge-street.


%
#
ir
30
ALEXANDER'S
IS THE BEST
FOR HAND OR MACHINE SEWING
! -
Ask for it, and sec that you get it.
/
B
Gold
(REGISTERED.)
9 SYDNEY ARCADE & 12 ROYAL ARCADE.
IAIII
LATEST FASHIONS.
&
/
WATCHES, 30s. EACH.
Brilliant
Special Novelties, &c. Country Orders punctually attended to.
ituaiapwMurj— jgimffl w—i n — i . i ' '-J ■ i — -'"■■■■ ' ■ , nn
Lustre - ORIENTAL GOLD. Emume Scm -
T Ja^ st discovery of science—puts in the shade every substitute for sterling gold ever offered to the public. The best imitations heretofore produced
Riant Lustre and Enduring Beauty of the new alloy. So admirable is its appearance ami quality, that the discoverers Iwveuot
No tawdry articles of inferior design* are muuufaetured of < HU ENT A L GOLD. It is worked tip'iuto JEWELLERY OF
THE BEST CLASS AND MUST TASTEFUL DESIGNS ONLY, and is
stooped to apply it to common uses.
Perfectly IndlstinguishabBe from the most costly Sterling Bold Jewellery.
ALTHOUGH SOLD AT PRICES WHICH REPRESENT ONLY A FRACTION OF THE COST OF STERLING GOLD JEWELLERY OF IDENTICAL WORKMANSHIP.
We want to do business with people throughout Australasia and Now Zealand, and will send
We are glad to have visitors, boc.nu*
know that our goods please everyone, i
that those who do not purchase will ipu
of our Jewellery to their acquainted*isi
way that will do us service
TO SAVE CUSTOMERS THE TROUBLE OF COMPILING A LIST. WK MAKE UP USEFUL AND ATTRACTIVE LISTS AS FOLLOWS
Residents of Sydney and Visitors from
the Country are respectfully invited to in-
spect our Goods. We count it no trouble
to show them, and no injury if no purchase
is made.
r e want to do business with people throughout Australasia and Now Zealand, and will ser
Parcels by Post, on Approval.
( This is a genuine Waltham movement, from the
| ceiebiated factory of the American Watch Com-
pany, Waltham, Maes., U.S.A.—no better in the
world.
No. 13.—Sterling Silver Chronograph,
doable dials for marking 5-lOtba of
a seoond, patent lly-back hand,
patent keyless works, 18 carat gold
wuider, with Oriental gold albert
chain
£4 0 0
No. 10.—same style of sut erlor quality
Watch of highest grade .. .. £5
If you have one of these Chronographs, no pro-
fessional sharp, with a gold chronometer in h : s
pocket, can take a point of you. These record
the time of any event as exactly as a ilfty-guinea
chronometer. No sporting man should he without
one. -
No. 17.—Lady’a very handsome hunting,
or open laeo with crystal glass,
Watch, In Oriental gold eases, full
Jewelled, and splendid i inn-keeper,
with a must handsome Oriental
gold albert with slim a and tiusells.. £2 15
ONLY.
IHpFS
: - •
warn
I mam
.
mm
This cut is the exact* size
and appearance of
THE REVOLVER for 0NEP0UND!
A beautifully-finished article, nickel-plated through-
out, vulcanite stock. 32 calibre ; 5 shot.
No. 18. —Same as No. 17, except that the
watch Is patent keyless £3 9
Wo have sold great numbers of these 1>4*
watches, and hate numerous letters IrwnftH
chasers expressing their complete approral of tit |
goods. Call and see t he leiteis, or ask u friend*
Sydney to do so. The action of the waitb Uid»-
tical with what is put into sterling gold easel id
same design, ana sold for £8 and £JU, mid Hast
is no difference in the appearance.
No. 19.—Lady's Sterling Silver Watch, in
hunting (or open face with crystal
glass) cases, beautifully engraven,
highly finished, full jewelled works,
perfect timekeeper, with sterling
silver or Oriental gold albert chain
with sillies and tassells ** *
NOTE.
Ladies’ very handsome Brooch and Earring Snttt.1
7s 0)1, 10s, I2s bd, I OS, 17s 8(1, 20S. !
very handsome Gent Suite, Locket
collarette or necklet, 20s, 80s, 4i«. I
Ladies’ Pendants, Lockets, Brooches,
Grosses, Novelties in Bangles,
mounted with Alaska Diamond*-** 1, ».1
tmiile of latest put terns In gold ami sih upg
- Gent’s rings (AlaskaDiamonds), Oim& rw
hols., sleeve Links, Lockets, Cham*.
pusses, Pencils, &c.
Pend us from £1 to £10, with a list af
want, and we will make a choice for l (,u ...
best of our judgment, and forward same,
appioved, and immediately returned. w»
lefund as below, or make any desiredsunsi
Specially Observe.
tW~ If the articles do, not answer
t.Ion on receipt, re-pack them at on
them back. If this is done within
or, where mails are few. h> the i gji
alter receipt, and the articles nre ,u , ,. ,|, e irtl
will return the money, deducting < ' t;l , u
expended on postage, iou can 1 url f
article and return the rest, and we
money for the articles not kept. nig/C
Every watcli sold by us will bend®* *
pauied by a written warranty lor l" -
_ ....... Caw ilflfl/trflDlO"
Sent to any part of Australia or New Zealand for £1.
Oriental Gold Company, 474 George-st, Sydney.
* Beware of Imposters who cut out this advertisement and stick it in their windows over a common burnished iron revolver.
ameci uy u written wwt -
The foregoing are but « tew
Ded to save customers the trouble« » t
It will be sufficient when ordering m » (|f
number of the lot, and enclose ijoLot*
amount Payable to The ukiemal
. 474 George-strcot, Sydney
OPPOSITE MARKEi
'• WW
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
fflanulaclMrer of all off Crated Maters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Vigorine,
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
