

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 12—No. 169
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1883.
Frloo —3d
flDjje §ulletra.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 18*3.
Drink, Little Creatur, Drink!
It is time we heard something about that promised
amendment of the Licensing Act. The members
of the Government and quite a considerable pro-
portion of the new members of the Assembly-
pledged themselves on the hustings that it should
be altered. And altered it will be, beyond doubt;
and, unless the sense of the publiobe fully aroused,
it may be altered with a vengeance. It has been
flung in the teeth of the present Administration
and its adherents that they were carried to victory
by a flood of beer and bribery. Tne epigram is
neat. lo is also a lie. A lie of the dangerous sort,
moreover ; a lie with a spice of truth in it It is
undeniable that the opponents of the late Parkhs-
Bobbrtson Cabinet had the solid and active
support of the Licensed Victuallers at the recent
elections, and there can be no question that the
support of that still powerful and always active
organization was of material service in consolidat-
ing the success of the Government—present Gov-
ernment —candidates. It may be conceded that
the votes swayed oy the publicans were, in the
main, given for selfish objects. It is even possible
ttiit had they been cast the other way, the present
Ministers would either not have been in office, or,
if in office, would have been far less strongly
entrenched in it. But when all that is granted,
we believe that there would have been a change of
Government. It was not the publioans, it was tho
sense and determination of the country, which
hurled the late vicious Administration to ruin, and
afforded their present successors the opportunity
of occupying their places. If this be not the oase
—if Mr. Stuart’s cabinet be a publicans'
cabinet, and not the people’s Reform Administra-
tion it claims to be —then it exists on false pre-
tences, and the sooner it is got rid of, and a real
cabinet of Reform substituted for it, the better,
• • •
We have thus far accepted Mr. Stuart’s
Ministry at its own valuation. It is composed of
reputable men, with clean political reputations.
It has declared that its aims are single and straight-
forward—good government, come what may, in
the interest of the community. And being con-
stituted, as we have stated, of reputable men,
and having thus announced its purposes, it is
entitled to respectful treatment and belief until
such time as its actions shall either sustain or
belie its promises. In this connection it hasto be
noted that all its actions thus far have distinctly
sustained its promises, and have encouraged the
belief that as it has commenced, so it will continue.
It may, therefore, be anticipated with almost
certainty that, having promised an amendment of
the Licensing Act, the Ministry will present an
amending bill to Parliament. The Licensed Vic-
tuallers make no secret of their exultant expecta-
tions ; the public generally, disgusted by some
revolting severities and absurd stringencies of the
Act, are content, and even desirous, to see the
law modified ; and the Total Abstinence people,
mortified by the insignificant figure they have cut
at the polling booths, and enraged by the evidence
ot reactionary feeling which crop up on every
hand, raise doleful and foreboding bowlings from
their Lodges, apparently conscious of their im-
potence to avert a catastrophe which they perceive
to bo impending, and which their own extravagant
excesses in the day of their supremacy mainly
invited.
« • •
This situation is fraught with danger to the
community. The professed Temperance bodies
have either betrayed their trust, or been them
selves, in some oases, betrayed and misled.
Having been induced to join hands with the
Mammon of unrighteousness, and to league them-
selves with corrupt, politicians, they find them-
selves separated from all the support which they
have hitherto received from moderate men, and
are enabled to realise how feeble and impotent
they are, thus detached. We have here exhibited
in a strong light the besetting sin and weakness
of zealots —of conscientious zealots —who have
ardour and conviction quite disproportioned to
taeir stock of discretion. There exist hosts ol
conscientious men who are not teetotallers, yet do
not yield anything to them in the earnestness of
their desire and the resoluteness of their deter-
mination that inducements to excessive drinking
shall not be permitted to flourish untrammelled.
There are men of balanced minds, of minds which
oan contain more than one idea, of minds which
have capacity for grasping a whole system of
social - ethics. To such men, tho desire to see
temperate habits fostered is but part of a great
■whole. This single aspiration does not take com-
plete possession of their faculties, and blind
them to all else. Their system comprises
many objects which they recognise as being of al-
most equal importance. They desire to see
the community prosperous and happy. But
they do not suffer from the delusion that temper-
ance in tho matter of drinking will alone suffice to
attain this exd. They ascribe equal importance to
honesty as sobriety. They are not prepared to
sacrifice all other phases of public and political
morality on the altar of temperance, and to lend
their countenance to any unprincipled public man,
who attempts to scramble into place and power by
a bargain that, no matter how he may lower the
political morality of the country, no matter how
he may waste the property and funds of the
colony by corrupt gifts, investments, and prefer-
ences, no matter how he may neglect or trifle with
essential legislation, so long as he deals with the
liquor traffic iu a prohibitive spirit. By acting in
a narrower spirit, by permitting themselves to
be made, like the Orange body, the tools
of any smart rascal who saw his interest
iu professions of devotion to their views, the total
abstainers have wrecked their influence,besmirched
their credit, and have endangered the very objects
tor which they honestly but blunderingly strive.
♦ ♦ ♦
There is a consequent risk that the Govern-
ment and the Parliament may misinterpret the
wishes of the country with respect to tho Licensing
Laws. There is every temptation for Ministers and
a majority to carry reactionary amendment beyond
proper limits But while decency and justice
demand‘that the excrescences of the Licensing
Law be pruned off.it will be a erave mistake
almost a crime—if the law be so mangled as to
eliminate its vital features. No reasonable man
wishes to tolerate a law which persecutes publicans
and interferes even with the innocent divei sions of
their families. No one with any sense of justioe
is in accord with provisions which deny reasonable
right of appeal from petty jurisdiction to higher
courts. But far less does any conscientious man
wish to witness a reversion to the evil condition of
affairs which prevai.e 1 before the passing oc iho
prefent law. It is very requisite to carry back
recollection to the midnight condition of osrtam
parts of the metropolis before the Act was passed
Wo decent man, desirous of seeing reasonable daei-
pline, can desire to restore that. There is room for
reasonable lopping of redundant branches. The
absurd provisions which shut metropolitan houses
on Sundays and have merely induced an exodus of
thirsty souls to swelter in the overcrowded bars of
seaside hotels, is evidently worse than useless. It
makes clear the outside of the platter. It confers
on the city a fictitious and spurious purity and
Sabbath calm, far more than cancelled by the
creation of noisy pandemoniums a few miles away.
• * •
The solution of the difficulty lies in a recourse to
temperate common sense. Any legislation which
is perceived to be pena l , and made penal to satisfy
the unregulated zeal of extremists, is sure to exoite
repugnance, as the most drastic parts of the
present law have done. Spasmodic legislation,
ever swaying backward and forward, is not wise
legislat‘on. Ihe sagacity of a lawmaker is best
demonstrated by his aptitude for framing enact-
ments which are fairly in harmony with tho
average spirit of the tunes. Restrictive legisla-
tion must be adroitly managed. The public senti-
ment in this matter, when not disturbed and
thrown into eddies by excessive stringency at one
time and extreme laxity on tho other, is
steadily progressive in the direction of encourage-
ments to sobriety. The advance is perfectly sure,
and it is not even slow. People must oast their
thoughts back to be able to comprehend the
possibilities of the present. ihe habits
and sentiments- of a people accustomed to
treasure personal liberty are not to be
dragooned out of existence. Two generations
back, our forefathers constituted a nation of
drunkards. The Sovereign, tho Princes, the
Nobility, the Squirearchy, professional men, mili-
tary men, merchants, and tradesmen of all de-
grees habitually fuddled their brains every night,
ifi verybofiy got drunk, and boasted of it. It was
a stigma to be a milksop, it was a breach of
hospitality to stint [the materials for a guests
inebriety. This has changed now ; but, as with
old-fashioned words, phrases, and forms of speech,
the old fashion survives in the humbler grades of
people. The sentiment that to drink is manly
ktill prevails among the vulgar, and whipping
even with scorpions will prevail nothing against a
sentiment. Repugnance against interference with
liberty has a.strong hold on many people who do
not tipple, but who are not versed in the nice art
of moral discrimination. Legislation cannot suc-
cessfully be eclectic. It must be fitted to the
ideas and sentiments of the time. It has been
clearly shown that that all-powerful class, the
moderate men, will not endorse a savagely re-
strictive Licensing law; but if the Government or
the Assembly conceive that they will welcome a
return to bygone license, it will be a grievous
mistake. The body of the present Act is sound
and wholesome. Excrescences require to be
pruned, but, beyond that, it will neither be wise
prudent, nor patiiotio to apply the legislative
axe.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Alms.
We like the calm patronage and serene superiority ot
tone assumed by the Euglish Press when it begins to
tell us whnt we should do. Wo like it because it
amuses us. Take this for an instance ; A London paper
gtavely considers that, as New South Wa'es has i nch
a large surplus every year, it would a graceful thing for
her to contribute something out of her great abundance
towards the general oqienseß of maintaining that
Empire upon which the sun has never yet had the
audacity to fet. This is a very pietty proposal. But
tho maker of it evidently overlooks the direct revenue
that England gets from us in another fashion. He for-
gets the rich fools we send home who are willing to pay
thousands for a few gewgaw decorationr, aud spend tens
ot thousands afterwards on people who come to laugh
at them in their incongruous finery. As far as its deal-
lings with these colonial chuiiheads is concerned, our
dear mother land is little better than Brazil, where a
barber may buy a baronetcy or a coffee-stall keeper a
oountship, if they “hold it” to a sufficient extent. Is
not this a sufficient contribution ? In any case we can't
very well do much more. We send away our rich fools
and keep our poor ones for home consumption. Aud,
by the way, it may seem a paradox to say that only
poor men are fools in this country. But it isn’t; it
simply moans that the men who ore fools at home are
knaves here—what is made here by rapacity is spent
there in folly.
Our Bridges
Me. Stuart's Ministry, having decided that Mr. Gar-
bett shall not run the colony into an expense of a little
short of a million sterling for a bridge which is not
needed for any purpose except to make the fortunes of
its projector and his associates, may he regarded ns
experts in quashing bridge-humbugs. It may conse-
quently be not unreasonable to direct their attention
to the general conditions which affect the construction
and cost of some of our bridges in esse, and seem to
assert their kinship to Mr. Garbbtt’s bridge in pom,
or rather non posse. The people of the colony have
been under the impression that they possess a skilled
and competent staff of engineers, capable of executing
and competently superintending all constructions re-
quisite for our public works. It is generally known
that, at any rate, the colonists pay and Parliament
annually votes salaries for a staff and department
numerous enough to execute the public engineering
wo»k of half Europe, and handsomely enough remuner-
ated to lift them above undue pressure of temptation
of all kinds. Put very few, if any, persons, are likely
to be aware that there is retained in England, on behalf
of our Government, a consulting or inspecting en-
gineer, Mr. John Fowler, C.E , whoso duty it is to
inspect the parts of all iron structures ordered for the
colony, and who is paid on the intelligent plan of 2i
per cent, on the cost of the structures It is, there-
fore, to Mr. Fowler’s interest that all our bridges
should be as costly as possible ; and could he but
arrange so that only tho most expensive class of works
be designed here, he cou'd rapidly accumulate a for-
tune A few such bridges as that at Penrith, for ox-
ample, would be a mine of wealth to a gentleman so
favourably circumstanced. It has been calculated, not
by the responsible officer, that the average weight of
the twa main girders of the short span of that bridge,
without reckoning cross girders, ties, and so forth, is
23 cwt. to the foot in length. Now, standard authori-
ties on iron bridges give 11 2 10 cwt. per foot run as the
heaviost form of bridge for a similar span,and 8 910 cwt.
as the weight per foot run for a scientifically desitiud
bridge, in which expensive kind of work is adopted to
secure thegreatest possible economy of material. Now,
no man outside a charmed official ring knows what any
one of our bridges costs the colony. That is a State secret
jealously guarded. But there is reason to believe that
by tho time iron girders and so forth are in situ, the cost
per ton in freights and carriage mounts to sums which
would pay for tho most costly workmanship, and leivo
a handsome saving. The span of the Penrith bridge is
132 feet. At 23 cwt. per foot this represents 3036 cwt.
MR. G. C. LOUGHNAN, M.P. FOR THE MURRUMBIDGEE—(See page 7.)


c
OUQ H B
AND
0 Ii D
The Best Cure for the above ia Rum made hot
,'and taken at bed-time.
FUSE BUM,
Extra Strong,
Be. Ter Imperial Quart.
C. W. ROBERTS
SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT.
MAEKET STEEET,
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
go to
C. W. ROBERT*’
NEW BAE,
GEO ROE STEEET, NEAE MARKET STEEifI
where you can obtain lor
6 d .
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BE ANDY, POET Wi*»
SHERRY, OE BEEE, "
of enoh a Quality that cannot oe surpassed at as.
other establishment in the world.
0. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPAETMENT,
is now open in
MAEKET STEEET.
BED OE WHITE,
only
Sd. per Half-Pint.
Quality Superlative.
NONE BUT WINB
the
PEODUCT OP AUSTEALIA
is
SOLD IN THn DEPAEMENT.
THE MOST WHOLESOME OP ALL BEVEEAQEg
0. W. EOBEETS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
le. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELISB WHISKEY,
6b, per bottle.
VEEDEILHO,
lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bettl s.
POET MACQUAEIE RED WINE,
Is. 61. per bottle.
MUEEUMBIDQEE POET
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 BTAE ••• PALE BRANDY.
6s. per Bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS,
MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY.
FURNITURE! FURNITURE
FURNITURE I I
** 11THPEE is the beet place to buy Furniture!
T V This question is being asked every day, an
is of aa much interest to anyone needing a single a
tide, as to the “ Happy Couple ” just sotting up boas
keeping, and who want everything from a kitoha
table to a drawing-room suite.
Visit the
HYDE FARE
F URNIBHIN6 EXHIBITION
OXFORD STEEET, SYDNEY,
Just opened by
MANDELBON AND DAVIS
I
(Late HARDY BROTHERS).
EVERY HOUSEHOLD REQUISITE MAY BE HAD
HERE.
Don’t be misled and waste time and money by sending
from one place to another; but remember that
THE LARGEST STOCK OFFERS THE BEST
SELECTION.
The Hyde Park Furnishing Exhibition
is the
MOST EXTENSIVE ESTABLISHMENT IN
THE COLONIES.
For SUBSTANTIAL FURNITURE,
ELEGANT FURNITURE,
WELL-MADE FURNITURE^
DURABLE FURNITURE,
Go to the
HYDE PARK FURNISHING EXHIBITION.
For good Workmanship, Excellence and Durability
Materials, the Goods now on offer are unequalled,
whilwt the Prices will be found
MtA EVELLOUSLY LOW
This vast Collection has been selected and manufao.
ttired with a practical regard for Modern requirements
and improved testa.
We Invite you to inspect our Stock; you will not be
asked to buy what you do nob want; for our object is to
RETAIN as well aa OBTAIN patronage; ana we rely
ou the satisfaction, good opinion, and recommends,
tien of our customers.
Remember these important tacts i
OUR STOCK IS THE LAP.GEST.
OUR STOCK is the MOST COMPREHENSIVE,
OLE STOCK IS THE BEST,
OUR STOCK IS THE CHEAPEST,
W The utmost ears Is given to packing and forward,
ing all Goods bought at this Establishment, and Conn*
try Customers may rely upon the prompt execution of
their orders aud the delivery of their purchase is ■
sound condition.
t i 4 1 5 it would bs 18,744 cwt., and at 8 9-10ths the
height would be 11,748 cwt. Now, 20 s per cwt. is a
fair average price for girder work in England, fo that
owls, may he considered to stand for pounds sterling. If
therefore, it weie Mr Fowler’s good fortune to design,
as well as to inspect the material for, our chief iron
bridges, by putting in plenty of weight he could double
his commission. There is a good deal in this bridge
business. Mr Copeland is too sensible and practical
a man to neglect a hint, because it comes from the
Press. He must be aware, that the Press frequently is
made the recipient of hints and information which a
Minister would never receive. If he feels like busi-
ness, and i i anxious to look into things in tho interest
of the colony and in pursuance of his trust, we
commend to his notice the following inquiries:—
By whom have the chief iron bridges in the
colony been actually and finally designed? Has
a real core ever been proem fid from the borings
for bridges over the Hawkeshury, Cook, and
George Kiv. rs ? Has a , really reliable bottom
been attained —not a mere hardened sediment? Is
one pier of the bridgi at Wellington (bottomed on a
hardened sediment) sinking, and if so what is to stop
it? What is the de-ign for the Hawkeshury bridge,
and to what depth is it proposed to sink the cylind. rs ?
As an estimate has bpen given to Parliament it is pre-
Shmed that a design was prepared. What is the esti-
mated cost for the foundations for-the abutments and
piers of the Hawkeshury bridge—and what ia the length
of the bridge ? (By foundations is meant—bringing the
cylinders just above high water mark, spring tides )
What remuneration Mr John Fowler receives (apart
from his commission of 2J per cent as inspector of iron
Work) for acting as consulting engineer and general
adviser to the New South Wales Railway Dspirtment
—and how is he paid ?
Rigging the Money Market.
The creation within late years of certain monetary
Institutions of English growth has had a tendency to
promote intimate relations in matters financial between
the old country and Australasia. Hence, the hardening
of the European money market has serious bearing on
the colonies and becomes a matter of vital importance
to our commercial being. At present, investment, de-
velopment, and all enterprise are at comparative stand-
still. For what reason ? Simply because the Banks —
who a jear ago encouraged the wildest aud most extra-
vagant ipeculations—are resorting to the unpleasant
meohanial operation, known as “patting on the
screw," which means crushing the heart’s blood from
unresisting victims with the leverage of heavy in.
terest! This pressure is kept up, in the first in.
stance, by undoubted flufincial rigour, and afterwards
by false reports. What explanation can be given
of the following “rigging” of the money market.
cablegram from London, of date January 18,
in the columns of the ttdnet Morning Herald,
appears this satisfactory intelligence; “The Bank of
England weekly returns show that the proportion of
reserve to liabilities is 41 per cent. The total reserve
in notes and bullion is £11,400,000;" followed, however,
by the alarming bu’letin, dated London, 23rd January :
“ The Bank rate of Discount. It is fully expected that
the Bank of England will raise the rate of discount.”
This, be it noted, at a time when the reserve of gold
is materially on the increase. Strange that the Vic.
torlan Argus and Queensland Courier published
advices predicting the lowering of the Bank of Eng-
land discount rates. Stranger still, that, on Satur-
day, 27th January, these latter papers congratulated
the polonies on an improved position of colonial affairs
brought about by the aotiml reduction of the English
rate. What shall be said of this mighty organ, the B.M.
Herald, which either neglects to explain its misrepre-
sentation or absolutely suppresses all information
about the Important reduction cabled all over the
colonies on Friday, 26 January P Who pulls the wires ?
Fisce cricket has been made a profession, we suppose
we may be permitted, tremblingly, to chroniole a fact
oonoerning this noble sport. It has invariably been the
usage, despite tbe feeling engendered by any defeat, to
shake hands “ after the battle." The Australian
“Knights of the Willow” (why “Knights?”) would
seem to have been above this—letting their patriotism
get the better of their courtesy. To come to plain facts,
Cpofforth (as is now well-known) insulted Bead of the
English Eleven, until he (Spof Jf was within an inch of
getting bis nose punched off, defying that redoubtable
batsman with sixteen friends holding him back, osten-
sibly for the purpose of preventing him coming to an
untimely end. And if that is not enough degradation
for ns, thore is the fact that not a single member of
either the Australian Eleven or tbe Cricket Association
went to see the Englishmen off by the Keilawirra to
Brisbane I Was sueh bad form ever shown P Was
gruel ever so wryly taken ? Of course these facts have
been already wired home, and have redounded, to
Australian glory. Let us be just. In England, with
tbe exception of the Nottingham episode, the Aus-
tralians met with a degree of courtesy which the social
stal a i of some of them did not justify them in expecting.
Tet, here, in Sydney, because we are defeated, our visi-
tors are, in the first place Insulted, and than shunned
The London Figaro, which, since James Mortimer
sold it, is simply consecrated,to “ Slobbtr,” has nearly
four columns of a sketch ou that wondrous paladin, the
Duke of Connaught I He is, infers the article, to suc-
ceed the Dukeof Cambridge as Comma -dcr-in-Chief (!);
and of the war the writer says; “If it had been pro-
tracted to a greater length, His Royal Highness would
have continued to be in the thick of the fray.” [I I] This is
really funny ; when all the Duke was known to do was
to stamp seme smonld’riug akhes out with his Royal
foot at Alexandria 1 What is urged for the Duke that
he should command our armies is, that he “ has not
only followed in his illustrious father's footsteps and
worn the whits flower of a blameless life; he has
escaped the arrows of the traducers. Character,”
the writer continue', “is often lied away, but
in this instance the slanderers have been silent. The
loungers at ths club have had nothing to say against
his Royal Highness; the inventors of canards have
refrained from concocting gossip about him." This
logic reminds us of a Bum editorial. This is sick
journalism, indeed I Why, if anything more than a
phantom command had been reposed in either of the
princely toy-soldiers in Egypt, the poor blacks would
have given us as big a trouncing as the Boers did after
wo had got the poor little Prince Imperial killed, all
through a lot of tem foolery. And yet that poor
fellow was sent out beause he wanted to marry the
daughter of a Woolwich pastrycook. He was too
honourable to try the Ponsomby business d cs que I’m
IUI. Fancy a Prince being honourable. Odd, isn’t it ?
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Professor Spring, of Chicago, characterises the
Salvation Army as “ bric-a-brac in religion "
There’s a Vigilance Committee at Cootamundra.
Wo merely mention this as a word of warning to the
Rev. Peter Campbell.
Archbishop Vaughan is going to Rome. So ia
Bishop Quinn, of Bathurst. Not the Queensland diffi-
culty over again I Eh ?
About £ 17,000 haa been already presented this
year in the shape <if testimonials to clergymen—leaving
in ill health for the old country !
It has been reserved to the Rev. W. Mathison,
of Balmain, to lecture on “ Tho first chapter of Genesis
and Geology.” His flrat chapter of Geology is accord-
ing to the revised version.
Some time ago a well-known parson up North
(one who loveth to sit at the rich man’s table) preached
a sermon in a neighbouring town. He hid it in menu-
soiiot. The same evening, in the same church, a “lay
reader" held forth, and re,.d the same sermon w ord for
word, out of a well known book of published sermons.
The most consolatory item of news to hand from
England is, that tbe Bishop of Adelaida, immediately
prior to bis marriage, proceeded to the pvlaoo of Arch-
bishop Tait, then lying ill, and got his blessing. Thus
armoured for real gospel work, the Bishop got married
The bride as ’8 well-known, was Miss H D Fetgusson,
daughter of the former Governor of Adelaide, but now
of Bombay.
Mr. Maornoohio, who for twenty years
withstood the fire of ecclesiastical bullets, has resigne d
the perpetual curacy of St. Alban’s, has retired from
prison, and has conquered The Dsnn aud Gi apter of
at. Paul’s have conferred the curacy on the Rev. Mr.
Suckling. who continues the very sn cm services which
tho Court condemned. Tho ruse gives Maoonoihie all
iha honours of war.
Here ia the only item in the way of real gospel
intelligence we re able to offer this week A well-known
clergyman of Kamsohatka left recently for the Gulf of
Finland. His oompagnon de voyage preceded him over-
land per sledge, to ha picked up at another port I
Rev. A. Maolaren, late Church o€ England
clergyman atlMaokay, N Q . has just, borne witncsi to
his sincerity in something like the old apostolic raanne-
—an iast°nre quite rare in these days of n oney-g rub-
bing inuffl -busters. Ho has resigned a rice cure on
omnso enuous grounds of difference with bia flock and
has additionally refifed a val-diotory purse of £250
Even the R. C’.s testimonialized him on his departure
Miclaren evidently has little of the wisc.om &l the
children at wrath.
The last happy thought is the Bowdlerisation of
tho Bible. There has just been issued in Eagland’“The
Illustrated Bible f ir the Yoauv," the specialty of which
is the "omission of certain passages such as a fa 'hit
would make in his family reiding of the Bible.” What
a noble work, and how sweetly pure-minded the next
generation ought to be I Our enly fear is that seme
years hence we may have an advertisement c f a Bible
“with all the suppressed passages restored,” which
would hardly be edifying.
Tho Rev. W. Couroie died in dirt, over at Auck-
land (N Z ) tho other day. H* was a clerical miser, an I
had accumulated a lan e fortune by lending money.
Lending money to whom? The Lord ? Don’t you be-
lieve it—he wanted some more solid kind of security
than that. And whose money did no lend ? The money
out of collection plates that had gone round for the
Lord P Hera is where wo are silent. But we suppose
we shall have to me< t his reverence on the golden snore
for all that. Aud if we have a harp of any size there,
we will break his head with it.
The Wesleyan Conferenoohaa adopted a motion
against "such public a > usen eat?, gaums, and mter-
tainments, as cannot be used to the glory of God,"
First, we want to know if the adjective “public" is
meant to apply to all three of the substantives
immediately following, or whether it relates only to
amusements ? It so, then “ private” games and enter-
tainments which “ cannot be used to the glory of God"
era not tnboood. Secondly, we want Archbishop
Vaughan aid ths promoters of the Cathedral Fayre,
together with some Anti-Moabites, to form a committee
that ehall define what sort.of things “ can not be used to
the glory of God.”
The Presbyterian Church furnishes the biggest
swindlers in Suotland. In fact it is sadly coming out
that the nearer the church the bigger the rascal.
8 arcely has thosomdalof the Glasgow Pack dropped
than another big defalcation by a pillar of the
church is announced. Mr. Smith-Pcddie is non
est. Mr. Piddie was a judicial f .ctor in several
estates and funds which ho has robbed of many
thousands. He was a shining light, too. of the Presby-
terian Church, whose sustemati n fund wid suffer by
his defalcations to the extent of exactly £26,f 00. He
gave the Commercial Bank of Scotland a turn, having
successfully passed to that institution forged bills lo
the extent of £9OOO Mr. Poddie never read Monday's
newspaper; it was printed on the Sawbatb.
Bishop Thornton, of Ballarat, ia now in Eng-
land. So far, well—if he would stay there. But it
appears he has been making most absurd statements
to the English people regarding the poverty of the
colony. The people of his diocese have forwarded a
telegram to England, denying the “ unfounded ” state,
ments of the Bishop regarding their “ heathenism an 1
poverty.” You will not*? that one has to be cautious in
dealing with the oloth. “ Unfounded ” is a good word.
But if he were anything else—yet no, —
Our statement re the Churoh we must
Most reverently dish up—
A liar ia a liar, but—
A bishop is a bishop.
Of the suit brought by Wilkeson, the publisher,
against Henry Ward Beecher, to recover £2OOO for
hreaon of a contract to write a Life of Christ, the 8. F.
Newsletter says : —“ One hardly knows whether to be
more disgusted with the publisher for paying out £2'o)
for snob a purpose, or with the minister, accused of
adultery, for undertaking it. No one can tell anything
about His life which cannot be gleaned from the New
Testament; but Wilkeson thought the thing would be
a good speculation. Beecher undoubtedly bilked his
publishers, and they, knowing this man to be accused
of being a dainty-mouthed reverend professor of illicit
commerce, a trafficker in salacious tragalism. deserve
to lose all the money they gave him to undertake a
task which haa never before been given to other than
pure and holy men to execute."
Mademoiselle Victoria Personae did not approve
of tbe doctrine of the Mass, so she got some bill,
sticker’s paste and fixed up a placard against the door
of her house, intimating that she considered the Mass a
fraud, The French authorities flued her 50 Iran os for out-
raging the religion of the State, and 2 francs for affixing
placards not beating the relative stamps. This is as if
a man should be first fined for blasphemy, and tben
fined again for not blaspheming grammatically. Aoh 1
You poor little person Personna
Do you think that the Churoh is an ass.
That each fool with its rites can make free,
And each Miss make a mess of the mass ?
(N.B.—The above par was written by a priest. li.
press please copy).
The Rev, Dr. Hately Waddell, of Glasgow, re-
ts antly selected for his text the well known verses in
tho twentieth chapter of Revelations: “And I saw an
angel comedown from heaven, having tbe key of the
bottomless pit and a great chain in his hand. And he
lay hold on the dragon and bound him a thousand years,
and oast him into tho bottomless pit;" and said that
11 if ever an angel came down from heaven to earth for
a work like this, it was the angel of electrical science.
It came direct from heaven If such an angel brought
a chain in his hand, it was the telegraphic wire and the
eleotrio cable coiled up and carried on his arm. If ever
snoh an angel had a key as spoke i ot in the text, it was
the submarine telegraph Just in proportion as elec-
tricity circled the earth, just in that same proportion
wonld the devil be defeated."
A private letter, from a well-known Australian,
now ia London, states that the widow of the late Bishop
Barker is to be married to a well-known High Churoh
clergyman, temporary resident at Bath. This is only fol-
lowing in tbe path of his deceased Lordship. •• Fare-
well till Resurrection," was the Wesleyan-llke ejaoula-
ti»n of the Bishop when he left the grave side of tho
estimable first Mrs. Barker. The giddy old bishop then
went home and returned to the colony with the bloom-
ing lady who now is to follow his example and marry
ngain. Well informed people say that the second Mrs.
Barker was by no means pleased when, on arriving in
Njdney, she found the Bishop had gone buck on his
first wife. And there were always kind friends, who
were eternally speaking to her of the goodness of “ Mrs.
Barker," and what was additional gall to tho Bishop’s
second helpmate was ths rumour in the papers, that
tho Anglican clergymen of Sydney had subscribed
among themselves for a silver cradle, with which to
present his lordship on his return. It was altogether a
talse alarm I
Why will people not tell the whole truth at
banquets ? The nOO sovereigns handed to Dr. Birming-
ham at ths Town Hall last week mean nine hundred
slaps in the face to a right reverend prelate of the
South. The tale was bod a long one, and no one was
batter able to unfold it than the illustrious knight who
presided. It has a remote connection with that Instruc-
tion Act. Wsgga is nothing if not spirited. The holy
Romaa Catholics of that place when called upon at the
close of 1882 to msiitain their own schools, absolutely
declined to subscribe towards the maintenance of any
denominational school except their own. The poor
priest. Dr. B , was immediately blamed ( t inciting
the flock to rebellion” and sent about his business.
Anarchy ensued. The people cursed tneir bishop and
mourned their priest, but determined ta testimonialize
him as an indignant protest against his banishment
from the parish, in which during live yeats he
established upwards of £15,000 woith of Church pro-
perty. Famine must ensu jat the Presbytery. The
people saved their Christmas dues for the doctor’s
testimonial, but they had to go to Sydney to present it,
as tho rev. doctor lives under an episcopal interdict
forbidding bia appearance in Wagga for twelve months.
And so there's a lot of R. C. dignitaries going home to
see the Pope. There's a slumbering volcano some-
where.
We propose “ Jesusistn’’ as the name for a new
religion. This new religion is an old one.
It died fifteen centuries ago, and ever since
then fantastic robed dervishes have been danc-
ing on its lepnlohre. Wa want something we
can believe in. We want something tender-eyed and
heavenly, not sordid faced and earthly. We want
something whioh shall act as a guiding angel to us
children of sorrow groping in the half li.ht between two
oreadful darknesses—the darkness of the Before and
After, the darkness of Death and Birth. Christianity,
as at present practised, is not this thing. The funda-
mental doctrines ot It. Founder are contradicted every
day by those who are supposed to be His aeoreditel
ministeis Charity ia unknown—except indeed tbe
charity of the Pharisee. The poverty ot the apostles is
mocked by the purple and fine linen of their succes-
sors, whose hands are always opon for money which they
know is obtained under tape pretences. They are all
danghters of the horse leech. And they excuse them-
selves by the miserable sophistry that times have
changed tinea He whom they call their Master want
about barefoot with one seamless garment. Truth is
eternal or it in not truth. Religion ia changeless or it
is not religion, bat only an evanescent fetiab-worthip.
Christianity is the same now as it was in its first noble
years, or it is a lie But it is no; a lie: it is only dead.
In its stead wa have the octopus organisations which
are too much occupied at clawing in the coin to spare
lime to save men's souls. B'otherly love they oer-
tainly have—as long as their brother has any thing to
give them. “Fight not against the Church." Bah I
We shall revere and We the Churoh when she is the
friend of tho poor and the afflicted. But tho Church
that did this is, again we say it, dead. We have nothing
now bntghierarohles of hirelings. What is to be done ?
Men must hare religion, even though it be of the sorry
sort that tuu Sdvation Army brings them. Wa aio
content with that whioh Christ taught. Tfetre is
nottiug higaer under Uiavcn. bub the tame cf
Christianity has bton so polluted, that we propose this
new name of ” Jesusism.” Is there any ot aof the holy
men who preach all sot ts of pretty things from carved
pulpits every Sunday who will throw off hj.s sacerdotal
silks and fal lals to gifra the very word ol thu Lord a
fresh start ? Wo wait for a reply. We are not in a
hurry, and are willing to allow time to intending
apostles t>scoop in as much coin as they can before
they leave the churches.
• » •
Cardinal Newman’s “ Lead Kindly Light ” was
sung at the graveside of Arohbiebop Tait in Weot-
miuister Abbey—a testimony to the foot that, on snoh
occasions, all parsing controversies and temporary dis-
agreements are at an end A grave scandal at South
Kensington is disturbing English ecclesiastical circles.
When Cardinal Manning heard than Sir Tatton
j Sykes bad given « 250,000 for the Westminster Catholic
jCa bedral fund, he wept with joy I We believe Pastor
Allen could wwp on the same terms.
Nilsson is a great success in New York, and
she has signified her intention of importing her newly-
discovered Stockholm tenor. On her stating this much
to her manager, he feelingly adjured her to “ turn up
that Swede."
A correspondent, with a view of decking th«
pilfering of Bulletins in the Pjst Offices. ei.ys: “I
would suggest every P.M. in the colony should bo nude
a subscriber, and the subscription paid out of his salary
by the cashier of the G.P.0." Mho idea does not seem
a bad one at first sight, but it wou’da't work. Why the
olerkj in the country would still 11 collar ** subscriber s
copies and let their own oat at a penny a read
It is a pleasant and profitable thing to be a
Government protegt over in Hobart. The position of
Immigration Agent in that colony, has lately been given
to Mr. L. K. Caslray, whose position at one time ap-
pears to have been that of ‘'Ex-sub-deputy-assistart
clerk" to the Commissariat Department. More ie-
oently he has become a little famous in connection with
the Co-operative Store and Tasmanian Club. In eon*
nention with this appointment the Launceston J>xa.
miner expresses a hope, that “ the North will ris* and
stamp out the snobs and oads that occupy the high
places, and put real workers in thsir stead." This is
cheerful tor Mr. L, R Castray.
A Guggling Gala.
It was a gila festival, but when the thing occurred
We really should be puzzled to set down, upon our
word 1
Suffice to say—and not in this of “guiver” there's a
trace !
This funny festival we sing most certainly took place.
How long ago it is we cannct tell you to the day,
Our mem’ry is affected, and our hair is turning grey ;
Yet we remember in the train as we sat ou our trunk.
One Minister was beery, and the paper men were
drunk.
They were so drunk, those journalists, so “ slewed”
they were, we swear,
So glassy-eyed, so hicouping, to dank about the hair.
So lurching and so tumbling altogether were these
elves.
That they were led away to a big cow-truck by them-
selves.
And 10, Into that cattle truck a porter quick did come,
And shovelled in big blocks of beef and great fat jars of
rum,
And as the train sped on it was a really funny sight
To see their boots thrown out—they thought it was
the ina at night.
"Ob, l.t us,” cried they, "come and sample the big
banquet's prog ! —"
“ You can’t,” the Ministers replied, “ you smell too
strong of grog I
Your step is too unsteady : you would strive to walk in
vain."
Bo they put them in some whisky and they shut them
up again.
They never heard a blessed word of all that there was
said ;
Each saw a picture blurred with eyes that fizzled in his
head.
But 10, there was a local man who had a temp’rance
whim.
So they gave hii. half-a-crown a head—and copied it
fro.n him.
Dear, dear 1 since all took placa that is embodied in
this rhyme,
It mus:—ah, now we think it—be a devil of a time 1
But if you gave us millions we really couldn t say
How long it is, our memry’s gone, our hair is turning
grey.


HUST’S BOOT ]
404 GEORGE STB
near KING STI
Qeats' Boots, French Calf or B
from 10s Cl.
Superior Ladies’ Extra High
Boots, superior quality froi
Ladies’ Evening Shoes, a great
EURE
KA
nMOKE EUfiBKA
the paragon of pe:
finee than the
tH k tobacco of
destined to eclipse an
all othee lea
the onlt tobacco combini
OF QUALITY WITH ECONC
Each Plt>S 18 stamped with the v
BMOKEES SEE THAT TO
Take no otheb
manufagtue
SAYWELL'S TOBACCO I
at THE EAGLE "V
KENT AND CLAEBNCI
And («'
be obtained wholesale at
Park-street, Sydr
Sold Entail everywhere, and will bi
as soon as its merits beoo
EUEEKA TOBAC
Registered according to Act of Pi
the public against spurious and wi
THE HABW(
FIBRE CHAIR SI
Possessing ail the qualities of a
Strength, Durability, Ease, Beat
Cheapness.
THIS CHAIE SEAT is made
kjnown fibres and a perfectly
»nd after fifteen years’ constant
positively! as to its merits. It ca
neither will exposure to sun or rail
Awarded Gold Medal at the la
Massachusetts Charitable Meohaui
FOE EE-SBATING, it is nn
house, store, and office, are Chvirs
Any person can re-seat and ma
t chair that is otherwise worthle
expense.
POE SALE BT THE TEADE I
AGENTS WANTED IN EVE
From £3 to £5 a week can be mai
or boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS A
GENERAL AcENTS FOE
82 CLARENCE ST
riIHE APOLLO
X PFEMONT, STD]
DIEECTOEBi
JOHN KEEP, Esq. | E. T. B
GEORGE TUENEE—M
Office 348 George-stre<
Manufacturers
the Celebrated APOLLO BTEAI
OLEIN,
HOUSEHOLD and FAN(
GLYCERINE, CRUDE an
PRIZE MEDAI
PARIS,
PHILADELPHIA,
SYDNEY,
and
VIRTUTIB GLORIA MERC
COALCLIFF C
mHIS NEWEST and NEAREST JOAL MINE to SYDNEY sum
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony,
19a. FEB TOW WET, delivered wit
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and bars kept well frt
Mid cleaner Are thaa any other. It neither has the objectionable smok
it splinter and fly off like the Western, but it affords that domestic def
nesting an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a chare
steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwholesome fumes givei
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLE
OFFICE —A. B. BLACK, 247 GEOR(
DEPOT—WOOLLOOMOOLOO 1
ALLAN A. MARSHAL
EON-ACCORD BRASS, COPPER, LEAD
8 and 9 MACQUARIE PLA
PLUMBERS AND GAS FITTERS, ART MET
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS OF CHANDELIERS
LIVING GEAR, Ac.
ibaub
ma
■
'iM
M
hfcfc.THECREfiT
CEKMMIEI
ONE OP THE WORLD’S
OARSMEN.
IN a recant conversation In Kin
a representative of one of the (
the United States, Mr. Edward Trie
oarsman, who is at present open to i
world, gave the following as hia opii
<vsTo.
THE MARSHALL
WINDOW FASTENER,
THE CHEAPEST I
nod
MOST INEXPENSIVE
FASTENER MADE.
PERRIER'S BAKING POWDER,
T
r^i
TRADE
MARK
■"r
SELF RAISING FLOUR
FEAST POWDER.
MANUFACTORY
Geobqe-stbeet West,
[Established 30 Tea
Hodgs
601,
ON’S WHIP
GEORGE STREET
near Qoulburu-stre<
B. HODGS
Wholesale and Ret;
WHIP THONG MANUFAC
Every Description of Kangaroo and (
Made to Order.
r.niuirm.mn
SS*
1 •;
m
ezzt
n
wiinmfZwn
I
im
iB
m
—l~ ~ i . ,
670
D
07 0
H
N Htcor
jJsILDER
; r '»<wve,S
So ST
‘V
Celebrated CHAMPION ROLLER SKATES, and every other maki
and all Accessories.
Manufacturers of the PORTABLE TALLOW G
Ranges fitted with hot and cold water. Circulating
MEDALLISTS A SPECIAL PRIZE 1
Established 1856.
ANGLO-BAY AR
WHICH WAS AWARDS
FIR9IT PRIZE VIENNA EXHIBITION, 1873.
GOLD MED-iL PAR'S INTERNATIONAL E
FIRST PRIZE SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL
FIBST-OLAsS VICTORIA INTERNATIONA!


Public Compos
fIIMTB MERCANTILE BAN]
JL ESTABLISHED 1
incorporated by act OF I
Paid-up Capita 1...........
Beaetve Fund.,.,, ••••••
rvrniinnv)gg,
.C.M
[.L.
auditors
Jas. Soroggia, Esq
Hon. H. E. Cohen, ]
[MANAGER:
F. A, A. Wilson
SECRETARY:
Hootor Allen.
BRANCHES:
Hayxnarket, Pyrronni, Rerffan
Gosford, and Nyuj
LONDON BANKS
The Natdoiml Provincial Ban
London Office i 169 Leaden
Director i Edward Cbapi
Ageat t Q. H. AlexaCd
This bank transacts all usual Bai
Agency Business on the most favou
Bills discounted dally.
Bills negotiated and advances mat
other produce shipped to England f
F. J. POL
OXFORD
TAILORING E3TABLI9
738 GEORGE STREET,
A large and well-assorted stock of T
direct from the Manufacturers,
All Gab mights Cut n the Most P.
PERFECT PIT GUARA
Note th(*Add:re*9
728 GEORGE STREET,
NEAR HAYMARK
THOMAS WEBB
269 QEOS6B S
Beg to announce that tl
JUST RBGE
a Largo Consignmer
MINTON’S
encaustic
(or
FLOORS and HAI
DIRECTO
The Sett. Stt John Hay* K
HonHlenry Mart, M.L.C.
Gesrg* S, CaircL, Esq.
Hon. Wffl. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King,
J. MASSET
10 PARK STB
INIIIH Ini IWINf
Business Announcements
D’ARCY’S
OLD IRISH WHISKEY,
Pure, Palatable, and,Pleasant.
B. COCH]
FIRST CLASS TAILORING 1
418 GEORGE S'
TXAVING secured the services o
i~9 of Buckler and Nunn, Mel
Perfect Fit an* Nfitisfaotlon can
Cochran has ha* ft long experience
will continue hti importing, «w>*<
can rely open a
FIRST CLASS QUALIFY
418 GEOaOfi i
near ROYAL H <
Opposite CorpEfi Pi
HE A OSTEAL ABl AN D 1
COMPANY.
T
CONTRACTS will be undertaken
panj to bore any sized boles, ver
up to
8 INCHES OB LAI
if required, t® any depth, at a podu
BS PJBB CENT BELOW ANY PRI
The Oompatjy In all oseao will ftn<
water for purposes. snd ■»
lor toßfi of diamonds or wosr sum
will also provide workmen, englnee
The new duplex bnrrell introduce
Mr. J. Coghlan will be used free (
searching tor minerals.
Mr. Coghlan has every confldenct
knowledge of the Diamond Drill, th
give general satisfaction, as well i
3l orders addressed to the
Temporary Offices, 311 Qe
JOHN COQB
General 1
w
ILLOO
AND
QIbBS
Automatic
SUont
SEWING
MACHINE
Mangle and
wringer, £4loa
hebbiew
416 GEORGE STRI
To Crown Lessees, Free-Seleetors,:
M E S CAE
J*
1 AND AGENT,
WENTWGETH 1
Canada Hu.u Bvt>
RINGER’S SEWING
TURNER & C<
ARE THE
RECOGNISED A
OX THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANU
TIME PAYMENT
2s. 6d. per week—2a. 6d. per week-
And NO interest oh
10 per oent. off for oi
BEWARE O F IMITj
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER A <
THE ONLY “ SING!
TURNER A *
Opposite (
u
NDBR SECTION
ARTUNION.
•rnimrin .1 «.« STTValtl
Chemist* and Dra
PILLS
ABRAHAM’S
tered
tl
Ee
IVEE E
THE QEEAT
9%.
ST
St A
CAUTION.—Owing to the imm
Pills have commanded, it has ind
dangerous imitations. Ask for
j. 8. ABRAHAM’S
and me that each box, by whomac
inventor's name and trado mark.
COUGH WHILE YOU OAI
taking Dr. Thompson's Amen
Linotns, yon will net he able to o
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177
Punch’s Hotel.
miCELE your appetit;
■ tralian Reliflb, made by W
177 Pitt street, price one shilling.
THOMAS WE
ENGINEEB ft lEONPO
MINING, TEAM, and RAILWAY
VIES
AND
bueglab
PBOOP
SAFES
AND
DOOBS
Works i SUSSEX STREET, A GI
Office and SHOW ROOMS, 220 1
COOLALTA WINE,
MORT’S PASSAGE, back of
Paling and Co.'s.
Choicest W'ines, by the glass or bol
the Bodega. Hat Spiced Wu
Open from 9 a.m. till C p.m.
Every description of n
WHOLESALE & RE’
EASTWAY BROI
413 GEORGE BTI
ADA O O »
TRADE
MARK
MBS*
«
m
pure® Awn on application
IN BULK AND CASE.
BARRE JOHNSTON
AGENTS,!
22 BRIDGE STREET,
SINGER’S SEWING
One Ounce of Fact is Worth a Ton
SINGER’S SEWING M.
As is usual, where ever and whonei
SECTION VII.—SEWING MACHINES.
First Order of Merit.
Singer Manufacturing Company.—For their
oelleokion of Manufacturing Machines, a first
order ct aim—Gold Medal.
Sieger Manumckurtn* Company,—For the Best
Family anting Machine, including variety of
work, excellence of workmanship and ma-
terial, simplielky of construction and dura-
bility.—Geld Medal.
Singer Manufacturing Company.—For work
executed om Manufacturing Machine*.—Silver
ili.MU.il I.
Sinjer MSmnfaotnring Company.—For gpeci-
mens of both Plain and Fancy Work executed
on Family Sewing Machines.—Silver Medal.
VGHDKAHFKADSHFA
BEAD THE AWARDS.
Easy Terms. Weekly 2a 6d Weeklj
No Interest. No Addition to the Pi
Chief Depot in New Sooth
No. 1 DARLING STORES, HAEB
SYDNEY.
Local Depots:
Bathurst, William-street
Dubbo,
Goulburn, Auburn-street
Grafton, victoria-street
Glen lance, ©r*y-street
Hay, Lachlin-stree*
Kempsey, Smith-street
Lismore, Wood-lark-st.
Maitland, High-street
Mndgee
Most Vi
Narandi
Newoasi
Parrami
Sydney,
Tamwoi
Wagga,
ILLUSTRATED PRICE
and
SAMPLES OF WO
Free rom any Dcp<
SINGER'S SEWING W
rp s. HUN
* PEOPEETY SALES
and
GENERAL AUOT3
Respectfully announces that he
NEW PROPERTY AUCTI
for the Sale of Land, House and
124 PITT ST E
Personal Attention, Punotualit
Settlements.
PHOTOGEAP
CORNER GEORGE A MARKET
ASCEND IN THE ELI


The Furniture <
►URCHABE
J-zt
V ••• iff
*"V,
YOUR
at
CAMPBELL BEOT
EOYAL FURNISHING
THE SECOND ED
of the
ECONOMICAL HOUSE FURS
“Registered under the Copyrig
now ready. Copies are obtains,!
The contents of this useful little be
may be furnished comfortably an
Bums of money, viz £l5, £25, .
£2OO, and £lOO. It also contain
almanac for 1883.
We here submit the Twenty-1
For the sum of J 225 pror
You can Furnish a House
PARLOUR.
Large oheflonier safe '... '. t
Dining table, 4x3 ... ... \f
Upholstered couch ... if ... ,
ftix cane-seated chairs ... f 1
Cornice polo with rings Ji' ... I ’
Table cover ...
Lamp
Clock
Pair vases...
Fender and Irons
Hearthrugs ' ...
Matting for room
BEDROOM. No. 1.
Pour-post;bedstead, 4.‘t. 6in....
Pair palliasses
Mattress
Bolster ...
Two pillows
Chest of Drawers ... ...
Washstand and set
Folding chair
Toilet table ...
Toilet glass
C. 8. Chair
Matting
BEDROOM, No. 2.
Single bedstead ...
Pair palliasos
Mattress
Bolster and pillow
Toilet table
Glass
Washstand and set
Chair
Matting slip ...
KITCHEN.
Pina table
Two chairs
Six plates
Six plates
Meat dishes, Is 93 and 2s 3d
Pair vegetable dishes ...
Six cups and saucers ...
Sugar basin
Mil* jug
Butter dish ... ...
Pair salt cellars ... ...
Set jugs “
Six eut tumblers
Six out wines
Six knives and forks ...
Two table spoons
Six tea spoons
Kettle
Boiler
Saucepans, la 03, 23 63, 3s 6d
Frying-pan ... .1.
Gnd-iron
Tea-pot
Tea caddy
Coffee-pot
Tin dish
Tube, 4s and 5s
Bucket
Dipper
Colander
Meat stand
Baking dishes, 81 and lOd
Two candlesticks
Pepper caster
Nutmeg grater
Pair flat irons
Hair broom
Wash board
Scrub brush
Set shoe brushes
Pair bellews
Hand brush
Dust pan
Knife board and polish
Clothes line and pegs ...
•1
NEXT WEEK LIST No. 3 W
• m
A PEW ITEMS PROM OUI
DRAPERY DEPART
TABLE COVERS, Embroidered, :
63 63; Coloured Cotton 3j 9
sices: Tancstrv and Velvet P
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Thurlow Tweed, the American politician, died
recently. He was a kind of President-maker* great in
politic*! but socially unpleasant j always being in a
high stats of tobacco.
Mr. Walney, junior member for Bast Surrey, in
the House of Commons, has left England on a visit to
Sydney for the benefit of his health. The trip was
advised by Sir William Jsnner.
Mr. Humphries, an old pressman, and well-
known in Sydney at one time, is the suooessfnl candi-
date for the position of Immigration-Agent for Tas-
mania. He proceeds homo in discharge of his duties
shortly.
Says the Tdmut Times : —“ Jones, Miller, and
O’Brien laid a sensational wager yesterday, £lOO,OOO to
£2OOO on Warwick for tha Victorian Derby and
Grosvenor for the Melbourne Cup.” At the time this
was written, the sporting reporter of the T.T, was
evidently either weeding the garden or greasing the
machine.
Tewfik Pasha, whom the British arms support
on a throne cf sand, is both a scamp and a fool. His
chief amusement is to harness tho ladles of his seraglio
one before another, with bits in their mouths, and drive
them round a room. And Eiaz Pasha, hia chief adviser
is no lees a blackguard, according to the best authority.
His little pranks must be left untold.
Mr. F. Gretton, the great sporting man—Bass’
partner—who died lately, left Ada Swanborougb, the
actress. £6OOO a year. Ada used to be the Duchess of
Sutherland, de la main gauche, and, on the night the
Duke “gave it best," sue fainted while doing Venus
rising from the Sea in 11 Paris, or five Lempriere ”
Probably she fainted into Mr. Fred. Qretton’s arm*.
Napier Broome, 0.8., the new Governor of
Westdrn Australia, is an old journalist. He made his
first mark as special correspondent of the Times, at
Bo Petersburg, during the marriage festivities in con-
nection with the nuptials of the Duke of Edinburgh.
Mrs. Broome is also a olevsr writer. Mr. Broome is
promoted from the Colonial Secretaryship of Mauritius.
The Gympio paper thus on th* leader of the
Queensland Opposition“ Mr. Griffith was nrvec cat
out by Nature to be a leader amongst men, cr to make
his presence felt amongst them. No man had ever finer
opportunities for showing what he was made of, and no
man ever more ignominiouely failed, Mr, Griffith is
simply a good and an aoute lawyer j beyond that ho
hardly rise* above respectable mediocrity.’*
Sir Joseph Napier, a Judge of Appeal, lately
dead, was vary deaf. When he was appointed, Mr.
Justice Keogh exclaimed, “Whatl a man who can’t
bear the sound of his own bell, made a Judge of a Pesll”
Napier <uoe saw a peasant near Donnybrook, belabour-
ing b donkey, and remonstrated with him, saying, "Re-
member, your Lord and Master rode on an ass to Jeru-
salem " “It he had this eld d ," was the cool reply,
“ he would not be there yet.*’
The Prince of Wales visited the fireman who
had been hurt at the Alhambra fl-e, "and afterwards
looked at tha shattered remains of the other poor
follow, who received his death-blow at the same confla-
gration." Thus Soci»ty, a London paper. The paper
then goes on to say, that acts like these are calculated to
stamp out republicanism. Arc they? If so, then, all
Moscow Allok has got to do la to trot around all day,
putting pennies into blind men’s trays.
Mr. Henry Woods, A.E.A., writes as follows to
a friend from " bountiful Venice” :—" You would
scarcely belUve it, but we hav* soon tho sun this after-
noon, the first time for five davs, Tha weather is
horrible, and the only excitement wa have, away from
work, is the success in • Travlata’ of Miss Frances
Provost, a* English girl, who sings and acts admirably.
Venice looks more Ilka the dirty »lavey of the sea*
instead of the Queen.” Mr. Woods has just been build-
iag a new studio in Venice.
The promotion of Sir Garnet Wolesley from
Lieutenant-General to General, for his success over tho
feeble troops of Egypt, has drawn attention in London
to the very poor honor* conferred on Sir Frederick
E iberts for his distinguished services in tho Afghan
campaign. Tho hero of Gabul displayed the highest
traits of a soldier and strategist in a most difficult
undertaking, conducting his sxpedltion, as must be well
remembered, with consummate skill and success. Ho
is nobody now. The reason 1* obvious. Sir Frederick’s
services were for hi* country, Sir Garnet’s for the
London money-lenders.
Tho brief particulars gathered of the fate of the
Palmer expedition in Egypt, point to the base betrayal
of the party by the Sohiek Metta Buflya and his nephew,
who undertook to act as guide*. Buflya is in custody
at Suez, but the nephew, who is known to have got eff
with £3OOO cash, has so far eluded arrest. The party
were led apparently in the direction of a camp of
Bedouins and with a wink the Sohiek and his friends were
allowed to escape. Messrs Palmer, Gill, and Charring,
ton, and the two other Europeans accompanying them,
were shortly afterwards ordered into a line and were
brutally murdered, the bodies being thrown into an
abyss. An avenging force is pursuing the actual mur-
derers.
Christine Nilsson, who has procured a divorce
from her imbeolle husband, M. Kouzeaud, is about to
be married to M. de Miranda, an attache of the Spanish
Embassy at Paris, and a famous journalist and verse-
writer. M. do Miranda aho.vs hia souse Journalists
should marry things cf this klnd-and they do when
they can get a chance. Whenever any of our scribes
have been offered a show of wedding even a public-
house, how have they snavellsd it I It’s a hundred to
though, that Mr. de Miranda and tho fair Christine
won t hit it long together, t- oma little thing is bound
to crop up to mar tho domestic harmony. The heels of
the old man’s shoes not cleaned will do it. Two
American brooms in four months would be equally
atal. 1
Mr. Fred. Gehhardt is an elegant Now York
gentleman, with £15,000 a year. This being the case,
he soars naturally above a mere mechanical science like
orthography. Here is one of his letters to hia wine-
merchant:—
■I n*' e 8 ( sl °J Par dy & Nichols.
» ntleme “ : PleftB ° to send me two (sic) number 100
mtb Avenue seven oasos of Pomry seek (sic). In haste.
“ Feed. Geukaed."
However, if what people say is true, he can supply the
money, and Mrs, Langtry tho spelling, &o. By et cetera
we, of course, m*an well, we hardly know what we
do mean—as yet. Wait till next mail 1
Respecting the luckless Lord Hastings, a London
print, after observing that it might bo worth while to
assert a popular error to the effect that he was ruined
on the Tnrf, eays that in fact ho died a richer man than
! 9 h .™ when he succeeded to the title and estates.
„ a , l i S . 6 , lament ha» called forth a smart reply from a
eu-informed source " Whoso while can it be werth,”
writes a cor., " to circulate such a preposterous piece
ot nonsense? Not Lord Hasting*’ nor Mr. Padwiek’a
, f J°^ n .Day’*, for they are all dead j eonsequontly
JJ™ writer's, for dead men provide neither chicken
ior champagne. The mere ready-money alon* that
u H&atiugs camo into after a long and carefully-
guarded minority, would have made a handsome fortune
fiuia moBt ' meß ; R not necessary to bring any
«a VT ? C# t 0 disprove a statement on the very face of it
.outrageous, and which, indeed, so palpably defeats
own ea “, sending memories back to a dark and
chapter in our social annals which has
u* been deservedly buried in forgetfulness."
n ,n O Jf oam 9 3 i” i Q London World, is more than
B aHrical in his letter dealing with the Arch-
i. York Ha says:—"The truth is, my Lord
t ln |j oiaMo P, you are a first-class specimen of an essan-
bnt AA<. e^ on ?C class maa - You have force of character,
hit -vA°pbh; you have breadth and vigour of views,
raflaJf. 0 Bva . tion Your little work on logic fairly
svm *! ? onr intellectual calibre. It is very compact,
on« ’ and cl ««- Everything is so weU put that
•> y ,*•, •Imoit mistake its trimne** for originality."
aa far ..'M? 00 ' “ Ho»mo*,’’ “ ha* be** stationary
the ° Ufc H°n and the Court are concerned. Both
with f-ud th* Prime Miaiatsr r*gard you, not
of the It was not the Minister
mads nn*. a ll tbe Sovereign, who may be said to have
which va'a 0 pa^ent °f your promotion. The sermon
Is a on tn» death of tho Prince Consort
most °°? n P osition of its kind. lb is one of the
shin that A n ? lxture 8 of panegyric, piety, and courtier-
the ingenuity of a divine ever conceived."
da Gipra on u ca, kl o announced the return of M.
3 j Russian Ambassador from Rome to St,
Petersburg. The significance of the affair was his
visit to the Pope, openly to consult with him as to the
repression of the social troubles of the Empire of the
Muscovite. The interviews were thoroughly sympa-
thetic. The Pope repeated his homilies on the clouds
of atheism and revolution, and trusted that not only the
Czar but all honest Christian men would unite with
him in his efforts to restore order to society, disturbed
as it was by the spirits of anarchy and discord. Those
in Borne who can still remember when Nicholas of
Kussia visited the then reigning Pontiff recall that
strange interview which ended by the Emperor’s being
actually sternly expelled from the Papal presence by
the harsh and bitter truths spoken to him. So alarmed
and overwhelmed was the Czar that he sank, pale as
death and almost fainting, upon a chair in the Grand
Room. The next day, how over, he wrote an affsotionate
letter to the Pope, and thanked him humbly for telling
him, for the first time, the truth,
Mr. Bnllivant, “ the gentleman of means,” as
the Evening Booze puts it, who attempted suicide a
few days ago at Bt. Leonards, comes of cranky stock.
His father, years ago, was proprietor «f the Three
Crowns Hotel, Church Hill, and had his coffla etowad
away in hie leiroom fer nearly a quarter of a century
before his death. Thie cheerful article of furniture was
artistically made and highly polished, and wae furnished
In front with a glass pane, presumedly with a regard for
the worms. When old Bullivant did go off the hooks
at St. Leonards, about three years ago, there wae a bit
of a etir. It was thought hie ooffiu held untold wealth,
whereas it only held dirt—that is the euatomy of the
said Ballivant, and the strange proceedings only re-
suited in the eld crank being hustled by strangers away
to the grave. The “ gentleman of means’' who has
now attempted hie own life, has been an eooentrio
since boyhood, and his mental defects were by no means
Improved by the extraordinary anxiety manifested by
his people when he lost two of his lingers with a playful
tomahawk. The "gentleman of means’’ issingle. Hehae
been living “retired," with no one for a companion but
a black spider, said to be the incarnation of a defunct
St. Leonards alderman. We pity the spidsr.
A curious story is told about William Blaob,
the novelist. It appears that an old lady in the High-
lauds read his book, “ A Daughter of Heth,” onoe, and
ever after claimed him a* her nephew whom she had
mourned as drowned at sea. This atory, she declares,
oontains family secret* that were only known to heraelt
and her nephew. Nothing ean get the craze out of her
head, and so she writes continually to this charming
author, upbraiding him for his want of affection for his
kindred. The old lady's name is Mrs. Mao Vean, and
she addresses her letters to him thus : “ William
Black alias Mac Vean, Esq , Reform Clnb, London.”
One day, more as a matter of curiosity than anything
else, Mr. Black paid his would-be annt a viait at her
home in the Highlands. He found her a nice, respect-
able, fairly-ednoatcd old lady. But the moment she
knew who it was had called to see her, she professed to
recognize him at onoe by his family likeness to the rest
of the Mao Vaans. The situation began to get awkward
when her niece came into the room. Now, he thought,
all would be cleared up. “ Surely,” said he, ” you can-
not think lam your brother: he must have been eight
or nine years yeungar than I am, and see, my hair is
beginning to turn grey.” “Ah, but,” she replied, “I’ve
known young men turn grey at a very early age.”
William Black left.
Mr. Rutledge, M.L.A., of Queensland, denounc-
ing the proposed construction of a grand-trunk railway
on the land-grant by a syndicate, was reported to have
said that “ we shall have Jay Goulds and Vanderbilts
here, men In their generation worse no donht than all
the Ozars and Emperors—and then .... the
people will find that the only way to dispose of them
will be to blow them up with dynamite.” Ha denies
the accuracy of the report, but the Brisbane Courier,
which published white rather insincerely saying “of
course we accept Mr. Rutledge's assurance,” declines
to admit that the report was Inaccurate, and concludes :
“ The argument appears to have been that we most not
Serm.lt the syndicate to build the Transcontinental
Railway, lest some abuses shonld be perpetrated ae to
compel the people to * rise In their wrath,’ and perpe-
trate the crime suggested.” The beauty of the episode
lies in the fact that Rutledge, now a barrister, was a
Methodist parson a few years ago, and although he re-
linguished the service of God, to adopt that of the
devil, as a lawyer, still claims to be in the odour of
sanctity, and never fails to bid for the snnfflebuster
vote at elections.
Anthony Trollope used to get up at five every
morning to work, and, it is said, that nearly all his
novels were written before breakfast. Hla Income was
£4590 when he died, and yet his death was brought on
by excessive study, and by writing purely to add to his
store. Serve him right. One of the the finest whist-
players of the age, Mr. Trollope’s face was a familiar
one at the Athenaeum, where housed to take it out of
the Deans and Bishojs in half-crown points at whist,
preparatory to taking it out of them in his novels.
Trollope was, as many know out here, of by no means
engaging manors; being loud voiced, Intolerant, and
irritable. It is said ho had a good heart withal. Well,
there was plenty cf rrom for it under that big waist-
ooat of his I T. A, Trollope, author of “Beppo,” and
other indifferent picture, stories of Italy, Is brother to
the deceased. Elenor Francis Trollope, who made a
success in “ Annt Margaret’s History ” (All the Year
Round), and s ime fearful subsequent failures, is T. A.
Trollope’s sister. They are a literary family, but the
author of ’ Phineas Fhinn ” is the only member who
has produced good literature.
We see that Lord Ranolagh is writing for Judy .
A queer curd this with a vengeance He is Colonel of
the First Middelsex Rifles, and being of an ut'erly
reckless character, is quite tabooed by the upper ten.
He has £BOO a year only, is tall, gaunt, with a long iron-
grey beard. He is unmarried, and by a clause in his
father’s will—inspired, it is said, by Royalty—must re-
main so. He may be seen any night when he has any
money, “knocking round the town.” Sergeant Ballan-
tine is a great crony of his, and, of course, when they
were together had to “set’em up all the time.” Some
years ago the learned Sergeant was Spris of Kite
Sant lay, and let that rather mature young iady have her
fling at the Royalty Theatre fora season or two— lfi«
profits to be equally divided. Every night Sergeant
Bailantine took Katie te supper after tha Show, and
frequently used to invito Ranelagh. In the end hla
lorsahip used to take Kate to supper, and not
invite Bailantine—paying for the entertainment with a
portion of the night’s receipts, borrowed from the fair
manageress. The Sergeant found it out, of course, and
when he made tho discovery, he said, “ Best thing that
Kate could do. She will now be able to do without that
red.nosed checktaker on the pit tier. Good for both
of you.”
Peaceful denizens of Sydney were thrown into a
condition of apprehensive excitation last week by the
sudden appearance of a warlike stranger “and suite.”
No loss a dignitary than "Little Mirams,” tho pigmy
president (bearded like the pard) of the Victorian Royal
Commission on the Tariff. The “snita” consisted of
the towering (and touring) Mrs. M., the immortal
Mirams’ umbrella, and the blonde and killing James
Thomson, minute secretary to the Commission, and
body-guard-in-chicf to the Financial Wonder. We
believe that tho Arithmetical Miracle, Mlrama’ junior,
was not of the party j but are happy to state that that
juvenile prodigy has got into tha taro-and.tret division
of his favourite branch of learning. Mr Mirams doea’nt
appear to have grown much within the last few years—
at least, not heavenwards. His feet have taken a deeper
root, and his umbrella has grown obese in his service.
From bribing tho “ captivating blonde,” who is a Nor-
wegian pine to the walking stick Mirams, we are able
to state tha exact height of the latter, with his bell-
topper on, at 4ft 9-| (more or less), and thus gratify the
yearn of onr readers who ache for tha sensational.
Mirams’ beard and voice inspire as mnch terror as of
yore. Now is the golden opportunity for “ Protection,”
Luscombe, to bring out this roaring lion. We believe—at
least, Mirams believes—that ho is new at the head of a
new party in tha Victorian Assembly, as mysterious as
that one of our parties which is hinted • t spasmodically
by David Buchanan. Thomaou ie an old Ballarat and
Melbourne yrateman, and batter looking than Signor
Verdi. Their ostensible bniiuesi ii to collect freak avi-
dnnoaabout the Border Dutisa—thalr real mlaaton ia to
have a right good tlms-i.a , aa " right good ” a* a Tee-
totaller. Mirams balng on*, oan have—while the Cab-
bag* Garde* flada the coin. The recant dissolution of
the Victorian Assembly ehertened the visit of Mirama
“ and suite.” Bo out colony is bound to wither.
Poor Gustavo Dor6 ! When in London he used
to stay at the Westminster Palace Hotel, and, of an
afternoon. Royalty was wont to flock to his rooms to he
sketched and to gat “ first view” of his pictures. He
was a noticeable figure, too, in the Park, where he
woald walk up and down tho "Ladies’ Milo” with
Campanini, the tenor, both dicori, and both resplendent
in velvet coats and the brightest cf hotlines. Talking of
Dor <5, there is an amusing article in the Herald about
him, which is nearly all Buskin, and what isn’t
Buskin is rot. It is well-known to the initiated, that,
except in certain isolated oases, the criticisms of the
editor of Pors Clavioera are regarded, in London,
very much in the same manner as are those of David
Buchanan out here They are clever, they are amusing
—et puis voild. Men on the Herald have, we believe,
in several instances, been known to possess an idea.
Wo hive been told this, and we are bound to believe it.
Well, the gentleman who wrote on Dor<s last Saturday
must have left his ilea (were he the happy possessor of
one) “at home on the planner.” Buskin wrote down
Dorb as he wrote down Whistler, and others, simply
because he could not reconcile himself to any depar-
ture from what he considered to be the canons of art.
Like Mr. Peter Magnus, he disliked anything original.
As a matter of fact, Gustave Dorb was without a peer in
the illustration of grotesque and poetic subjects. His
Bible alone stamps him as an extraordinary genius.
The pictures are not conceptions, they are inspirations.
His giant painting, “Christ Leaving the Prtetorinm,"
his about it a fascination which enchains the attention
of the spectator for hours. His Don Quixote is a
masterly study of the Spanish nation, aad unrivalled in
grotesque humour and in the delineation of the terrible.
Let anybody turn over the pages of his Dante. The
pictures thsre haunt you. They live in your brain for
days. They float before you as you walk in the sun-
shine; they hover about your couch at night. There is
only one word for DorA He was a splendid genius. Ha
is dead ; so he won’t read the Herald article. Lucky
it didn’t appear in the Shroud. Then he would cer-
tainly have seen it.
A good many people of all sexes, and most ages,
have heard of a tong called “What are the Wild Waves
Saying P" a rather maudlin production be it said, sug-
gested by the death of Little Paul in “ Dombey and Son 5"
but few have known, or oared to ask the name of the
author. Well, his name was William Kingston Sawyer
—and he is dead. In his way, this Mr. Sawyer, who is
dead, was a remarkable man. He, perhaps, did more
literary work in the week when alive than any writer
that ever existed—more even than James Payn—though
not of so good a quality. Ho was editor of Funny
Folks, Tub South London Press, and Thb Wbikly
Budget —the latter, the most astounding pennyworth
of literature in the world. Mr. Sawyer was a man wko
j ast soared above mediocrity—and no more. For Funnt
Folks is not very funny, nor were his “ Bupert Papers"
in the Budget in any degree remarkable. But that ha
was thought a great deal of by his journalistic confreres
is undeniable. As president of the Whitefriars Club,
be bad a fine locus standi, and it seems that his r6le was
a kind af general “ guide, philosopher, and friend " to
the London Litterati of all kinds. He was a man, indeed,
who was mote loved for his bonhommie, than respected for
his talents. The Budget speaks of him as one—
“ whose kindly, genial presence and welcome work were
known far beyond the limits of this or any other news-
paper, and gave him rank and title to sit with the
masters of his craft;” and Mr. J. E. Carpenter in a
sonnet has these lines :
“ The circle narrows—one by one
Out old friends fall and pass away.
Now he is gone—bis work half done—
O Time I you might have let him stay
To charm us with his fancy’s play.” , .
Al' this shows a lot of good feeling—especially the
sot met. When Churchill died, Wilkes, who had used
the satirist’s splendid talents to his own advantage for
ma tv vears, erected an urn to him, but he neither wrote
an obituary notice nor penned an tn memoriam sonnet.
No v, for people who like us, this is what we might
su', gost they should do. Give us the urn while we are
all ■■o, and the notice and sonnet when we have “ turned
our toes up." With regard to Mr, Sawyer, however,
we may state that he is almost entitled to a mausoleum
if only for one of his efforts. He contributed to the
lyrics of England, “ God bless our Sailor Prince.”
Arthur Sullivan is “in it ’’ now to a very con-
siderable extent. But he wasn’t so much “up in the
world” abont ten years age, when his first experiment
in cos junction with Gilbert—“ Thespis; or Gods Grown
Old ’’—was a pronounced failure at the London Gaiety
We saw that pieoe, and considered it indiscribably
droll, but the world then, we suppose, was not ready
for musical satires. The idea was intensely whimsical,
the gods being shown feeble, blast, and with earthly
cravings. Toole played Jupiter (we think), and sang an
absurd song about a railway, in which all the conoomi.
tants of a locomotive were bewilderingly confused with
a porter and a tunnel. Probably, if that pieoe were
played now, it would be a triumphant success 1 Abont
this time there figured on the London stage, in “Les
Brigands," a French actress who sang in English, and
who was of surpassing loveliness. Her name was Cor-
cblie D’Anka. This lady was playing at the Globe,
and her wonderful beauty won the heart of a young
medical student. This youngster, by dint of pawning
his and his friends* instruments, contrived to raise
sufficient money to take a box at the theatre onoe or
twice, and, what is more to the purpose, to take Cor-
nffile to Ascot. However, she found out later that ke
didn’t “hold it,” and became immediately unconscious
of his existence. One night Sullivan happened to be
“ behind,” and, in company with Mansell, the manager,
accompanied Madello D’Auka to her carriage. It was
a flue moonlight night, and 10, standing near the
vehicle, was the medical student. As Corndlie ad-
vanced, he stepped forward and put out—a pistol.
Darting forward, Sullivan seized the miscreant, and he
was conducted to durance vile. On examination, how-
ever, it was discovered that the weapon was not a
pistol at all, but a pipe-case, and the man was conse-
quently get at liberty. Arthur, however, froze on to
the “ heroine cf the loaded pipe-ease ” (as she was
called), and in due course Compile went to reside with
Mr. and Mrs. Sullivan—there to perfect herself in her
art, under Arthur's tuition. A few days later it fell
out that Mr. Sullivan conducted the Albert Hall or-
chestra, in which H.B.H. the Duke of Edinburgh was
one of the first violins, and on the Duke making a sug-
gestion, Madelle D’Auka found refuge in other quarters.
A few months after this the Shah arrived, when, for
the first time in her life. Compile became a welcome
guest at Buckingham Palace. In appearance, Arthur
Sullivan is dark to swarthiness, baa black hair so thick
that tbe division down the centre looks like a white line
in a block of ebony, short whiskers, and a long blaok
moustache. Ha is now received everywhere, though
Mrs. S dees nit accompany him into society. Nor
does Mrs. Gilbert go abroad with her husband. Mrs.
G. is, it is notorious iu London, besides being a lady in
every way beneath W. 8. in position, of a disposition,
tbe shrewishness of which borders on the waspish.
Although they have done snob snooossfnl work to-
gather, Gilbert aad Sullivan have nothing in common,
and when not engaged upon an opera, admit tacitly that
they bore each other unmercifully.
* • *
Sir F. Napier Broome is the last appointed
Governor of West Australia Sir John Pope Hennessy
takes Mauritius All the celebrated English portrait
painters are painting portraits of themselves to the
order of a wealthy art patron of Aberdeen A Dig
effort is being made to revive the ohase in Ireland
The Duke of Connaught is said to be pressing for a
command in India A Mr. George Thompson, of Syd-
ney, has been robbed at Melbourne of 100 sovs. and a
draft on London for £9OO, and doesn’t know how it hap-
pened Dr. L. L. Smith, of Melbourne, the advertis-
ing and political pill-pounder, who makes colonial
champagne, sent a dozen of his creme de Bousie to
Munrb, the hottest professional teetotaller in Mel-
bourne, Munro got mad and smashed the lot, and now
L.L, advertises as a puff of his fizz, that Munro dis-
posed of twelve quarts at one sitting One of the
wealthiest men in Victoria was asked to contribute
something for a charitable object, lately, and excused
himself on the grounds of the hard times which forced
him to keep £50,000 lying idle in the bank. H'm,
“Blessedare the poor—in spirit.”
Terribly damaging to the system are those fiery
compounds of cheap unrectifiad spirits, which their
uefanon* vendors and importer* either insinuate or
openly declare to be equal to Wolitb's Schnapps. —Any
Ih the Eye, Ear, Nose, and Throat Diseases,
OMualt Dr 8 IANICH, Aurist to Hi* Excellency, Lora
Aicaitui Loft**, Gevernor of N*w South Wales, who
wifi give the benelt of hi* Services Gratis to the Poor,
every TUESDAY and SATURDAY, at 5 Wynyard-
square Sydney.
There’s a world of meaning in this simple line.
In America, the returns of Illegitimacy are no longer
taken as a reliable indication of the moral condition of
the various sections of the community. The highest
sverages are accepted solely as indicating the greater
ignorance of certain scientific principles.


YJT HOWARD SMIT£
S'I'EUTH’S WHARF and N
(Foot of Kiug-atre
Offices i 42 KING S
Steam to MELBOURNE.
Every TUESDAY and FI
Steam to BRISBANE,
MARYBOROUGH
and
EOCKHAMPT
On TUESDA’
All parti onlars, apply
W. HOWARD SMITH
All the official business of tko Bim
this address.
PATENT PORTABLE 61
(Limited),
B 2 YORK STREET, B
ALL THE
COMPANY'S LA]
ISSUED AFTER THII
BEAR THEIR
TRADE MAI
ON THE
BURNER,
The Company is now prepared
suitable for Houses, Mines, Stores,
quire no trimming, afford a brillii
ooal gas or kerosene, at loss cost,
the hand.
Samples may bo seen, and lamps
at the Company’s Snow ttooms 81
Price lists, Ac., on application to—
ARMSTRONI
HYGIENIC & RELIABLI
[Registered under the Trade hi
Armstrong's Remedy fo
Bleeding Pi]
The onlv advertised preparation
HEMMERHOIDB, recognised, ai
FACULTY. It improves the geuc
linos the CIRCULATION,reIieves I
BLEEDING, pain, and itching, u
Bold in bottles only, nt 4s. 01. and
ARMSTRONG'S PARAGON ]
Price, 2s.
Armstrong’s (Camomile) L
Pill"
AS A GENERAL FAMILY APEI
have No Equal
FOR the Cure of INDTGES 1 10!
In the Side, HEADACHE, Qiddin
Flatulency, and Habitual CO N S FI
a Healthy TONE and VIGOUR to
of DIGESTION—The STOMACH
ing Mild in their OPERATION, pr
restore the APPETITE, and st
System. Price, Is, 2s, and 4s. 6(L
Armstrong’s Red Jamait
in Combination with DANDELI
••Recommended by the Highest 1M
VITALISING BLOOD RESTOE.
SURPASSES all other PREP
Speedy and Permanent CURE of 8
ING from an Impure or Over-acid
Diseases occasioned by the ip jot
CURY upon the SYSTEM, B>pb
Chronic RHEUMATISM. Bottle
2ia.
•w Goods forwarded to all part
PRICE LISTS sent post tree.
Two Doors below Oor
OlMSirrmimh HU
WOODWARD’S OYST
85 CASTLEREAGH STREET, NEXT
137 KING STREET, NEXT TELEG
107 PITT STREET, OPPOSITE F.
SB
HYDROPATHIC
ESTABLTSHMj
CORNER OP COLLEGE AND OX
HIDE PARK.
■Jjl URNITURE SHO
BRADLEY, NEWTON, a
O'Connell arid Spring-strei
HALL FURNITURE. WATPTA
LARGS ASSORTMENT.
»nd lamb.
rIBRAKT FURNITU E, CE
i TiBf.KS BOOKCASES
S,E4DTNG"nd LOUNGE CHAIRS
ind Lamb. Furniture Importers, S]
dreo’a, Sydney.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, in
the very latest fashion; wel
WALL CABINETS for Cbbio
ELEGANT, just received,
i ud Lamb.
NOVELTIES in Boudoir am
SUITES. Bradley, Newton,
nell-street.
A FTBRNOON TEA TABLES
pensive. BRADLEY, NEV
O'Connell street.
MARBLE-TOP TABLES, on
SOME STANDS, tor olube
in or rt eras &u
Billiard tables, fun si
ances; also smaller Convert
feet. may be uved as dining tabl
Rpndlev. Newton, and Lta-b, 1m
0 Connell streets. Sydney.
Bedsteads. n.u nzea, at io»
LEY. NEWTON, and LAMI
i> r.s'roat.
RE GROOM SUITES complete
ard very handsome designs
-obos. er with smeller w rdrobe
G*eat va’iety. BRADLEY, NEi
Spring and O Connell streets, Sydn
EIGHT POUND BEDROOM SI
trie Bedroom Suite, oompris
s. washstand, dressing tab'
ibair-t The lot for £B. BRAD hi
LAMB, O'Connoll-street
CHEAP FURNITURE—What'
nut Loo Tables, from 90s; Op
355; Chests Drawer", from 40s; V
61; Tab'es, from 7s 61 ; Wardrobe
Ta Tes, from 20s; C-dar Chill,rule
Sid boards, from 70 •; Kitchen
K tehee Tables from 10s; Po'di
from 7s 63. BRADLEY, NEWTON
nellaud Spring streets, Sydney.
85*.
BEADLE'S
NEWTON,
and LAMB,
SYDNEY.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS. !
able designs in Blac< and Go
85 i BRADLEY. NEWTON, end
FURNITURE —The Largest S
BRADLEY, NEWTON, anc
street.
DRAWING-ROOM CABINET
Anglo-Japanese, and Cbippe
opened. BHADLfiY, NEWTON,
ture Warehousemen, Spring and O
DINING-ROOM FURNI
Suites in Walnut, Oak, an
boards. Dinner Waggons, &n . to ;
NEWTON, and LAMB, Furniti
gprirg and O’Connor Streets.
I7IRAMEWOBK for DEAWIf
d end OCCASIONAL CHAU
TENSIVE assortment Chipper
N
B W PEE
MR. J. CALLA
CONFECTIONER AND
«o favourably known to the General
Aldermen of various munioipal-itic
bodies, has REMOVED to his El
SHOP, No. 607 * 712 GEORGE STB
the corner of Goulburn-fatrcot, whe
to see his old customers, and to who
for their liberal support, and hopt
There is a private room and lai
requisite much needed in Sydney, a
Mrs. CALLAGHAN.
SCHOOL FEASTS,
ALDERMEN'S DLNN:
VaiWDING BREAKFi
MINISTERIAL BAN(j
got up in First-class Stylo.
A Visit is request
A. a. DEBNEY
13 HUNTER STREET,
PORTMANTEAUX.
TRUNKS OF EVERT DE
A a. DEBNEY
Have just opened a large Sbipn
HOSIERY, MERCERY. I
COLLARS, and EVERY
FOR GENTLEMEN’S
SHIRTS
Cut after the Latest London Styles
London Cutter.
N.B. —Country Orders reo S
A. A. DEBNEY &
p
AP E R
H A 1
with
DADOES, 808 , FRB,
FBIEZEb to match,
NURSERY PA PI
CEILING (
FIGUJ
imported by
ALEXANDER BO
281 GEORGE STREET (Oppo
PAINTERS* AND DECORATOi
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Points,
Brushes, Gold Leaf
CLARK*. U
x
D. W. CLARKSON, T
Removed to 97 Market Street, nei
Tweed Salts from £S Si. Twew
FURNITURE! FUJ


SUNDRY SHOWS.
twtatbk Royal — “ Aladdin ” (Pantomime)... Vide p. 15
. Lfr>li<ils — rt BOCOSOOiO ” 1 &-
AranicMV OF Tvrestc —“Z'lln W*r Diorama" -lb.
flats***** Sal ration Army. .........n.ib.
*rhia is evidently owing to there only being one
employed at tbs Royal. Ai.d he is a young one 1
heard, of course (this to follow), that poor
ij U r). Lias gone np -r down, or whoever it is.
o Not to put too fine a point upon it." as Mr. Snagsby
,a Ly he is dead. And as wo can't waste any more
Time over’ the dead when we have so much to do with
ihS livirg. we must go on to say that Bent and Hey-
wood have teen pla,ing to shy biz in Auckland, but
that Stanley and D irbyskire s youngsters have l «en
V*?® splendidly with a pantomime m the same city.
And to jump d. lot us chronicle the fact
that “’Art's 'Appy ’O .rs" have been drawing crowded
houses in Rockhampton.
«prolique,” a new French translation by
B _ nn ftn a Farnie. at the London Strand, is a dismal
W«L notwithstanding th't Fred Meryin plays a
Prominent part It appears Frederic has to atog in the
That would account for the frost of “ Frolique "
Jr ' are told, too, bv “Carados" that a new play—
a Butte, fl,’’-is to bo produced at the
London Vaudeville, and this is a couplet of his on the
“Pronitecf aday":—
••From (he programme of the Globe, then, sweep the
fa'lish thing away.
Bettor fifty Meritt-m xtures than this sickly, stupid
play I”
r A letter from H. J. Whittington tells us (what
we are sorry to hear) that South lost money all through
Victoria and Tasmania. Whit is a curious boy, by the
wa v He took the first “Fatima" to Adelaide, and
ended by marrying Pa'ima. This is the first instance
on record of a man marrying hii whole show. In opera
bonffo companies, itis true, that sometimes—but better
not perhaps 1 Let ns rather say that a nice lady writes
dared ink) from Carcoar to tell us of a concert there in
aid of the Braes Band, at which the leading lady was
exceedingly shrill, and a gentleman amateur “perpet-
rated 'A Warrior Bold,’ sounding as if he was headed
up in a cask, and was warbling through the bung-hole."
This seems very funny to us. Wo are afraid, though,
it won’t seem funny to the gentleman.
And yet another letter— this time from “ An
Old Clown.” He says: “I cannot help drawing your
attention to the shamefu ly bad talent who appear
nightly at the Theatre Royal."
Singular to relate when a man has married a
prominent actrets or singer, there is always a burst-up
in the household. Look at the Visoomte Vigier, for
instance. He poisoned himself the other day oil hand.
He had previously married 'he singer Sophie Cruvelli.
The Maiquis de Cars the Emperor’s equerry, martied
Patti wiih a grand flourish A short while afler M
Nicolas (otherwise Signor Nicoliiv) sang with her—and
wo all know th' 1 result, of that. M Ronzeand, Nilsson’s
husband is in a Paris Matson de San U—a hopeless imbeo'le
—fit for nothing now but to write Bum 1 adei s Albini’s
husband died a raving maniac; and Grisl’s marriage
with Da Meley ended in an elopement with L)rd
Castlereagh’s son, a duel, and eventually a manage with
Mario. And the word minage reminds U 9 of manege. It
is similar with the Circus Marriages last there until
the appearance of a i ew rider What can it be ? Some-
thirg in the sawdust, perhaps. Marriages are made in
Heaven, they say. Perhaps that is the reason why
they shouldn’t be made in the theatre. Or circus.
‘ : * * * *
I Our Adelaide correspondent writes : —The
operatic pr<gramme was *• Norma," Monday and Tues-
day “ Traviata” W< dnetdaj ; “ Trovatore” Friday and
Saturday. Bully Powley’s original principals have
been joined by a fresh detachment of black eyebrowed
petformira airiving by the s.s. Indus. None of tbs
representations as yet have struck fire from the heads
of the Adelaideans There is a consensus of tremolo
among all the voca ists which irritates weak, and angers
strong nerves. Up to the appearances of Signor
Qrnziesi, asßirtolo in “ Varbiere" and Ferrando in
“ Ti-ovatore," not one of the singers seemedto have got
hold e'f a single note in the n iddle Their voices vibrate
like untuned harmonium reeds, and in consequence are
freqrently and disagreeably discordant in t. fleet. If a
man or a woman attaeks a certain note, but wobbles
round the edges and gets mixsd up with the notes which
lie immediately above and I eiow, he moy display a craze
for vibrato or a viciously acquired style, but he or she
fails to sing his or her author, and gives vent to tonal
eccentricities which jar with the sustained correctness
of the instruments and moke any decently musical
audience shuddtr So is it with Bully Rowley a com-
pany. Qraziosi excepted. Qraziosi is more likely to
take Dondi’a place than any basso imported Anstra
tmlasian-wards lately. Imagine Dondl’s voice a Little
thinner, hut perhaps more penetrating, with gria’er
force in the lower and higher registers. That is
Oraziosi’s. But be has not Dondl’s pleaf ant appearance;
is shorter, broader, with more prominent failures.
Yet thoroughly up in stage business and a hotter actor
than our old fiieud His Mephinto should be a satisfy-
ing performance Piergentili, the new baritone, is a
solemn, middle-sized gentleman who bvs brought a bad
cold and much ensuing huskinesa with him. G ntle
Pater, we call him here, and Gentle Peter s vibrato is
too unmistakably abiding. One can scarcely tell what
particular musical note this finger at any time wishes
to convey. He appears to know such paitsas Gerrac-t
and li Conte (“Trovatore") perfectly. Bat one finds
it impossib’o to separate either introduced or regular
ornamentation from the text, or to fully recognise even
that text, so wretchedly powerful is Gentle Peter s
all-conquering vibrato. Signora Paoli herself is better
in this respect than some of her company Withal she
is only a medium vocalist with a voice whereof the top
and bottom have somehow get chopped ofl. Her high
notes aie frequently unpleasantly strained and deploy
ably out of tune, while her low notes cannot be heard
across the orchestra. But she is evidontly at homo on
the boards, and can act a bit. One tenor, Sbrieoia,
sometimes sings nicely and owns a not unhandsome
stage presence. T’other, Castelli, is a robust tenor
very much on the row and often very nearly bust.
There is no end to the ceaseless demonstrativeness of
this hidalgo whether he slaps his own patent block-tin
cuirass, or cuirasses the voluminous soprano. And
any popular recognition of his power obtains aff-
able and instant acknowledgment. The audience
break out into the tiniest bit of applause.
Castelli, in the mes’ charmingly imaginable way, will
take down his mailed paws from where they have em-
phasised the last high note, and pause delighted, and
simper and bow graciously condescending. Ahl Whooan
withstand these Hytalyann teuoreysl Signora Gilbert,
too —and a boy 1 It would be incredible it ’twore not
“ billed and cooeyed ! How she warbles I And the
balenof her rorriso is even more delightful than Cas-
telli’s son iso s balen It is a fixture. &he sang the
Shadow Bong" as tho singing-lesson in " Barbiere,”
and, when she acquires sostenuto, will sing it well.
Nothing like praising lyric people! Operatic under-
takings cost money, and we do not feel certain yet that
Adelaide is going te recoup Caggley for his enterprise.
1 et his ingenuity deserves much. He has denaturalised
our own Tom for tho occasion—“ Signor Grundi"—ha I
ha I Very good, dear boy. Thank Heaven, tkis Signor
* a guileless of vibrato —otherwise many revolvers
would—but what need ? What need ? Caggley is work-
ing up a chorus, and the orchestra will be very good
w ben the brass becomes subdued or the strings aug-
mented, and an oboe and basfoon are engaged. Thus,
you see, opera flourishes at Adelaide, while Herbert
Flemming, Palmer, Fminett, Marian Melrose, and the
ether famous dramatic hligams are content with two
Rights’ modest benefits at tho Academy deferred to tho
*ad and 3rd February Annie Mayor, with her on-
coming sister, Professor Simon, and tuneful amateurs
Me to help aad vary the entertainments.
* * * *
Josh Piekeregill, we see, has been in Auckland,
telling the people there that no has a “ big thing on."
"oor eld Josh! Bow crumpled up he used to be here
w nen la belle Louise wouldn’t smile on him 1 It wajyj
great iarir. Sometimes Frank Weston was “in
beraetimes le beau, Herbert, and sometimes somebody
fr B ’a J had, on tho whole, rather a poor time of
Jt. When huffed, he used to go away and hide himself
*°r a day or two, duiing which time all the business
arrangements of the company went to blazes. Many
Mimbj'ii tho time we have seen him cooling his heelo
her chariot wheels when tho holy stars were glim-
meting above, and looking unutterable things when she
PPearecl with her maid to trip into that dreadful
vehicles. Then, if she didn’t look round, or say,
“ Wa’al, good-night. Pick," he’d rush tearfully into
Eastway’s, call frantically for gin and soda, and bite a
semi circular piece out of the tumbler Well, well
By 'he wnv, wo wonder who i« “in it" now ? The new
jeuno premier, we suppose—pour changer.
* * * *
The two newest things in the thettrical world
are—the forthcoming production of Henry the Fifth,
and Williamson’s moustache. As there is a great deal
of incidental music in the former, >t may he justly said
that their are a few nice airs in each 'J here is, so far
as we can judge, a symmetry about the whole thing;
and we have no hesitation in saying that when in full
growth it will taper to a fine conclusion. [What, in
thunder, are you alluding to —the piece—or the mous-
tache ? Anyhow,'h s is not legitimate criticism. Go
on with yout “ puff preliminary."—Ed. 8.l
* • »
We had recently an interview with Henry the
Fifth. He was vdry affable We mildly asked who
was to play the title-rdle. Then we looted down and
saw his Majesty s foot. We then withdrew the query
It appears we were wrong about Miss Jenny Watt-
Tanner. She is not to play Chorus. She is in Auck-
land. But the astute G-iorge has got another young
lady of picturesque appearance to speak the lines
Somehow, Mr. Rignold’s Choruses generally are pic-
turesque young ladies. But then “the Gilded Youth"
—as they will call him iu the R» ferke—has a discrimi-
native eye I If we were a “star,” we wou d have
Choruses just like George’s!!! Mr hignold, having
unbent, told us of his It is great. There is Sweeny
iu it. And Martine. George, we thank you A rumour
was burning round the town that Jim Allison was to
play the beef-eater. We asked James. He shed on us
the lustre of diamonds and replied that it was a mis-
take, He could only play that part at one house at
once, and was hnsily engaged in breaking his landlord’s
heart. Rignold says there will he no tin armour. It
is all steel. We believe this And every bit of the
scenery is new. We believe this too, because Gordon
to d us j and Mr. G. is a man who never really.
» » »
Mr. W. G. Carey is to play Pistol. We are glad
of this. Mr Hudson is to play Fluellen. We are glad
of this, too, and only hope that Mr. H. will turn out
what His Majesty assures ns he is—an actor of pheno-
menal intelligence. One feature at the rehearsal is
that Jim Ailrson has put his foot down. He insists
upon the performers adhering to the original text. It
will be remembered it was Mr. Allison, when Adams
was here, who objected to Colley Cibber’s version of
Richard 111.
* * * *
As we are going to prose, the Matthews Family
are having a “ oen and doing funny things with hats
and violins. We say d'avance that they have a crowded
house. We risk statements like these occasionally.
Bub not often.
* * * *
Here you are in one act. Eosa’s sprained, and
rince this Bid event business has improved Therefore,
“The Waif” can’t be withdrawn, and D’Orsay Ogden
can’t have a ben. Frank has hal a throw in at last,
and now drinks nothing but gin-and-seda out of a
silver "gobling.” We are glad, by the way, to learn
that Mrs. D'Orsav Ogden is “as well as can be ex-
pected. He’s to find the coral.
* * * *
A Melbourne correspondent writes :—Theatri-
cils here are not lively, that is, in. globo, to speak classi-
cally. “La Mascotte" is all there for Hie crowd.
Luscious Maggie with her boisterous abandon, is bring-
ing the hoodlums about —a rare luxury in the Princess's.
But she is good. Broad certainly, hut full of life.
Moves ahoutthe stage as if embonpoint was an assistance
to women in spirited work. Ami then she has Nelly—
rollicking Nelly, with shapely limbs, and an eye to
business—to help her. Yes, they’re good. But the
“Pantomime” at the Royal is getting done Brown,
Joe’s immortal effort is wearing into the sere leaf of
public opinion. Yet, it has made a decent show—aspe-
cially as regards John Henning’s scene-painting. bo
John, the big-heatted, careless son of genius, has given
the lie to the croakers who said he was painted out.
Not ho I for John is not only a scenic artist, but he is
Po-ut of no mean order. He once indited a Sonnet to
the Flowing Bowl which would convert General Booth,
if he only followed its advice. Dunning, with his Al-
hambra Opara C mpany’s is not the furore (xpeoted.
The puhlio conic n t he got to acknowledge that the
artists were Heaven-born—though dsoidely sound on
their understandings Yet, Kate Chard is good—
vivacious, natty, and sparkling. They go to storm
Adelaide this week. The Bijou is given over to
Mirstrels—who are full of fun and frolic. NoiMsg
doing at the Victoria and St George's Halls. The first,
the Hite say. has “bar ’ entrances—the latter, people
say, is not safe in fire time. Verdict of the Melbourne
public on the show business —sick of opera boufle per-
formers of the second-rate order-want legitimate
drama—comedy preferred, tragedy not objected to.
Report says that a really good comedy company is
being formed here, and among others who will reappear,
the name of Mai ion Dunn—Mrs Marcus Clarke—is
mentioned There are lots of talent tor such a company
—to wit, the lady named, Mr. and Mrs. Garner Wybert
Peeve, Cates, &o. Pity Titheradge left A Charles
Mathews lost to our stage. We a’o going to have
Cagli's Italiau Opera at the Boyat in s ccts»i n to the
pantomime The Pollards succeed Dunning s troupe at
the Opera House, and play Les Cloches do 1 orueville
But the public are looking for sweet, E nelie and
Fatiuitza George Darrel —the irrepressible author,
actor and modest, young man —has done Hulla at clean
with his tremendous drama, and has commenced to
worry the dwellers of Hobart Dampur, with bis
Vagabond, is s'ifling the good folk of t andhnrst It
issa dthe Polks menu to return America-wai ds after a
flying tour through feyduey, Adelaide, Tasmania, and
N.Z- Joj Pickeragnl', 1 he lunnv man of Dolrtsi ron<h,
has a new “fad” He envies Zulu Thompson, and is
going to “run’ him on the picture line, but as an
opponent Ho is to bring out an Egyptian Panorama,
and do the lecturing himself. Jos has an ambition to
emulate and dishearten Artemus Ward as a lecturer.
And why not, for has not Jos got the Yank e« mode of
speech (orefully studied and practised), and is not Jos
a “ cure."
« * • *
This, the last week of the Emdie Melville
reason at the Opera House, has been very financially
successful. We are indeed glad of this, for Miss Mel.
ville’ssukc, and forthatof the public—for her’s, in that
she well deserved it; for their's, in that they decidedly
owed it. They have done her tardy justice ; but they
have done it. Let us give a farewell line and figurative
shake of the hand to tha membars of the company.
Firstly, the fair prima donna. After the qualifica-
tions have been made, it remains to say that she is
one of the most charming women who have ever ap-
peared on the colonial stage. Bhe is a queen of opera
boujf'e She is piguante. She is graceful. hhe is chio
Sue is Emelie Melville.
♦ ♦ •
These are all the French phrases we can call to
mind just now. We have sent to Dubbo for a diction-
ary of that elegant tongue, but it has not yet arrived.
We begin to think that the Bum reporter who was up
at Armidale lately must have g«C hold of it on the way
down and eaten it. under the impression that it was a
bar of soap This, however, is digression. We wish
God-speed and a speedy recovery from illness to Mr.
Uasselli, who is as fine a comedian as he is a man—
which is saving much. The gifted Armes—is always
with us We a' e pleased to see that he has so far
got over his accidi nt as to appear on the si age. But we
don’t think that even the plea of illness excuses mispro-
nunciation. What in thund< r does he mean by a
“ inorganic'’ marriage anyhow ? Armes, however, still
sings.
And what is the meaning of a small boy in a
plug hat and toe-plated hoots skipping around iu a
Florentine street of the middle ages ? But even this
a nachronism cannot dim the lustre of Mr, E l ward
Farley’s really brill ant abilities, nor throw a gloom
over the lamtent humour of Mr. Charles Harding’s
“ Leonetto." Ai d what of Mr John Forde, and still
more what of Signer Giovanna O'Neill, the pet of Paris
and the idol of Italy '< Oh, for ten mmutts with that
dictionary. ' \
Miss Annie Leaf, we shall say that she
has improved most wonderfully in voice and stye
since she came here. She may now be said to sing
sweetly enough for anything. And Mrs. J A. Fox has
done excellently as “ Isabella.” Miss Bessie Royal
also is getting a liner voice every day. We would
mention the rest if we had space, hut tfe haven’t.
Therefore, ladies we hiss our hand to you ; gentlemen,'
we wish you good bye and good luck.
** * *
It is with more than usual enthusiasm that wo
mention t.'- e fact that Frank Towers has it last made a
" hit.” And the curious thing about it is that he has
done this with the last drama in the world—" A Waif
of the Streets”—one would think possible of producing
a sensation. «nch is luck. Snob especially is man-
agerial luck. But Piank has " got" the pnblio at last,
and that is enough for hint. Larger audiences have
attended the Giitty dnrirg the dry nights of last week
than have been there depuis longiomps This is a nice
rhraeo, ibis is, acd rounds a period Off very prettily.
Which reference to beauty it once suggests Boss, who
plays the part of another Rosa, an actress, and make*
up in an entrancing Sara-Berahardtesquefashion which
oaptiv'tcs the gallery and eomplete y enslaves iho
pit. Me Prank Cates has in this play a part which
suits him As Herbert Carlysle he is himself again.
And Mr. J. Q Joyce makes a very respectable looking
old baroni-t. We would like Mr. G H. Ireland better
as Hugh Cassidy if wo had not seen him before in some
other things. There was a striking similarity in his
porfoimanoe of these other things, and his performance
of bis present rdle. But he is always good and that is
something. So we might say is Mr Prank Towers —
who plays " Props”—were we not afraid he would think
we were speaking sarcastically. And we would not
have this for the world, not to speak of a plate of bash.
As Colonel Hopkins Mr. W. B iker is as good as may be
But when wo come to speak of the performance of
Miss May Vivian, then we warm np with something
like enthusiasm. Her " Lidy Carlysle " Is a very nice
person indeed. She has a pretty face and a delicious
smile, also [These columns are for criticism, not
gush. Wo excise half a foot of this stuff —Ed. B]
One of the bast make-ups we have seen fer a long time
was tha f of Mias H. Tnlloch, who played the part of
“Miss Melinda Mantrap." And as “Mrs. Jowell"
Mrs, Prank Towers was good, but not winning. Katie
Towers, b; tke way, who plays the "Waif,” has improved
considerably. She can almost sing now And she is
getting her stage logs, 00 to speak, as wo surely may, of
a very young lady. “A Waif of the Streets" is the
best written, best played, and most attractive piece
which Mr Towers has yet taken out of his own reper-
toire—wo mean boot-trunk It is likely to run for some
considerable time yet, after Which "Qrif,” a drama
which is described to be of the moat gorgeously spa< •
taoular kind, will be produced. And now, we are tired.
• • •
Mr. and Mrs. Polk open in “The Strategist,”
at the Opera House, on Saturday night, oignor
Mageroui has been here a we?k arranging biz.
♦* * »
Miss Eloise Juno, with a large company, opens
in the Academy of Music, on the 24 hinstant. Probably,
j.i her s‘ ar piece " Jeannie Deans. Now Juno as much
as we do.
** * *
Zulu Thompson is about to leave ns. We are
gloomy on this account. Wo are gloomy, because we
have haunted the Kraal night after night, in the hope
of getting a souvenir of the Show, of some kind-if only
a flat-iron Bnt wo s»ppose the Bum men were
us—as they always are when it comes to a scuffle tor
1 ose vases or viands Certainly, we can say this for
Zulu, though wo may feel personally neglected, that bo
has always given genuine goods away. This is why he
has fil ed his house every night. And, by the way, a
pair of ponies—the pair he drives through the street
when he plays the professional prince—is to be given
away on Friday nighl Wo used to drive about with a
pair of ponies once. But we do so no more, the man
wh« hired them out to us is dead He died broken-
hearted, in extrema poverty, Zulu intends to take his
Diorama to Hobart next. Thence, probably, he will go
to South Australia, and from there to the Capa Ho is
in bo hurry to get to iho Cape. They know something
about the subject of the Show there, and he wisely
wails till their impressions of the war shall have some-
what faded out before ho ventures to bring forth his
D o-ama. And before we forget it. Zulu Thompson
takes a bent lit on Friday night. Did we say the ponies
would be given away on that night? We think we
did. Wa are very fond of ponies.
"THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the theatrical
profession.]
The bloodhound in one of the Uncle Tom a
Cabin ” companies, broke loose the other day and ate
up the docket, and a local paper blameehim forrobbing
the public of the best actor in the troupe...Simonson's
company arc doing Wellington, N.Z. Kiooardi cried
“ enough,’’ and left at Christchurch, at which town they
did fairly well Archibald Forbes was entertained at
a dinner by members of the Press at Christchurch
During the last week of Billy Bent's company at Auck-
land, they drew "fifty bob’’ houses, while the Darby.
shire-Stanley youngsters could fill the pit and stalls
nightly for live weeks ...Gerald Dillon, finding studying
for the law is hardly what he expector), has again taken
to the stage. Ha hau a benefit tendered him by the
Auckland amateurs bef >ro he left that town Amy
Uirton and a number of—well kster lights—did a big
t>o‘inesa at Christchurch, N.Z., with the pantomime,
"The Maid and the Magpie " Mr. • h -nes
Turner filed his schedule in Melbourne showing
a deficiency of £530. Charles has beta nnlu ky,
he says, since the 2nd December last. If he'd
finance more, sing less, and hand over that singing >o
Mies Annis, a great many more pleasant things might
befal Buc Charles will fall on his feet— ergo cm a
broad basis Clark and By man ore playing at ihe
Meloomne Bijou to preUy good business Ben All'h
is at papier (N.Z.). Tbe Simonsen Opera Company
were in Wellington (N.Z ) at latest A.nd such a
statement could not fail to su jgest to us that Woodyerr
and Boss’s circus is also travelling in Wow Zealand.
There are also a good many other things we could s vy,
but we are getting tired now The Pollard Lillipu-
tians appear at Brisbane shortly. We shall bo happv
to see them here in Sydney again... South’s Opera
Company is playing at Tam worth just now. The Ob-
server man up thero is kind enough to say that tbe
singing is pretty g<'od, though not as good as he has
heard elsewhere If he didn’t hear better elsewhere it
not for the want of ears, anyhow Herbert Flem-
ming and his friends have won their case egamut
Alli-on at Adelaide. Claims and legal costs are esti-
mated at about £450 Archibald Ftrbes is drawing
crowded houses in Now Zetland A company, cot*
slating of Mr. hi Marshall, MDs Livxie Dixon, end
others, are playing at Geelong just now Dampi' r is
at Sandhurst Darroil has concluded his eugageme it
at Ballarat The Bstchelder Minstrels are said to be
making money in the Victorian country districts.........
Edmund Marshall is, we hear, under engagement to
play here with Rienold in Henry V Holloway and
Company go ts) Brisbane i-hortly. They can go to
Cooktown ..It is said that tne right of producing
"The Silver King " in Australia has been sold by the
authors. Messrs. Jones and Herman, for £1530.........
Julius Heri, who conducted tbe Melbourne Musica.i
Festival, bas been presented by the artists who took
part therein with a handsome souvenir of the Festival
This is what it is to bo a mus'eal conductor in Mel-
bourne. Hero, it is better to be a tram-conductor
The Mastodon Minstrels are very far North just now.
Their advance agent secured a good house one night by
advertising that all ladies who came to the show would
he provided with fans if they did not bring their own
Each lady who came "had teally quite forgotten’ to
bring hers. But it was a cruel shook to them when
they found out that it was only a Mastodon gag, and
Billy Wilson came out into tho eeutie cf the bouse
every now and then and wagged his ears about to create
a draught Tho Cagli and Paoli Opera Company has
made a tort of hit over in Adelaide. This is just about
where we should expect them to make a hit. Signor
Castelli—the man wbo can grow a beard in a single
night—is the most papular of the crowd—among the
barbers. # *
Barnum has an idea of showing “ The Claimant’’
as soon as "Poor Sir Roger" is released Now tbat
the bedaubed clown is making a popular fool of himself
as usual, we may observe that Joe Grimaldi w*s the
first great clown. Probably there are better clowns
now, because Joe is dead ; but you couldn’t beat him
80 years ago. His first appearancenvas as a monkey m
the Pantomime, when he was three years old. That
same year, he acted at two theatres (Sadler’s Wells and
Drury Dine) each evening* right through the seasons
He acted every year but one fit Sadler’s Wells for 4W
joara. His Pa U'sed to thrash Him awfully, but could
never knock the fun out of hi®. At I&at years oM, h»
fell 40 feet throtrvh a trap doo r , and oiJrtr, when being*
swung foiind on tic stave, the chain broke,nnd he sbefc
«ver the t fnhpftra into the pit. Yet he lived / sothidl
people should have' someone to laugh at. Far years Wa
worked like a negfo sl&fe, feting st tm theatres each
night, running sometimes sD the'wAp from one to the
other to be in lime, changing dresv neatly twenty
times a night 'there had beftf none so clever as Grim-
aldi before ; there have ' een fow sisce Theltilssou
concert season in San Franoisuo, commencing on De-
cember 12. and ending on the 18tb. was a most snceeea-
ful affair, netting nearly £5OOO. Signer DeYivo lefts
for New York on the 15th, in the hope ef inducing/
Adelina Patti to make a tournee of the Pacific Coast
before fho leaves for Europe. Patti demands AIOOO for
each concert., and all her expenses paid Good acton*
are batter paid in America than in any other part of the
world. The following are some weekly salaries: —Mr,
John E. Owens £7O, Mr. H. M. Pitt £i6, Mr. C Tht-ne
£5O, Mr. J ParsoUe £2O, Miss Rose Coghlan £6O. Mr.
Oaword Tearle £4O, Madame Dolaro £5O, Mr. W. Carle-
ton £lO, Mr. J H Ryley £3O Mr. R Manffi-W £2s.
Mr John llowson 130, Miss Maud Qianger £35. Mus
Catherine Lewis £4O Gie*wlck seems to have re-
gained popularity at home. His recent benefit at the
London Lyceum netted him £5OO Madame Nilsson’o
concerts In San Francisco arc said to average £l4OO
each Ristori last heard of in Liverpool Mise
Fanny Kelly, the mother of the melo-dramatio stage,
who on reaching her 92ad year, had ft grant of £l5O made
to her by the English Government is dead. It le
understood that Johnny O'Neill opened up oommn-
uioaMons of an amatory nature with this young lady.
The first anniversary of the burning of the Ring
Theatre was kept as a day of mourning all over Vienna.
The following, which is beta fide, from the London
Ira. combines the circus poster with the obituary in a
marvellous manner : “Died, Kate (the beloved wife of
Professor Van Hare), formerly an equestrian, after a
long but painless illness, took her last and final leap,
without fear or excitement, on the 2Ut ultimo, we hope
to a better world, where euvy and ambition are nn>
known. Interred (27tb) at the Brompton Ojmetery."
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed.]
“ Braid wood ”i We’d like to know in what part
of the Bib’e there's any reference to " pouring oil on
the troubled waters”,Nemo” (Ravenswood): For
such a tropical lot of personalities, we'd like your name
if you please. If “ Foxy ” has done all yon say, be
deserves slating j bnt purely private matters should
not be raked up against him. By yonr account, he is
boss of Ravenswood ? Send along your baptismal pro-
per nouns, with confirmatory evidence if necessary
“ B.W **: Thanks ) a good line ; will deal with it
Rather an old yarn “H B Your com-
plaint appears to be a just one, but it is now too late
for us to deal with it The Licensing Act is the author
of a thousand such injustices, and relief can only coma
from Parliament “Supporter”: You're not correct.
“Timothy Fogarty,” whose letters appear from time
to tin e in the Lyhb, is a gentleman well-known in Syd-
ney—and is one of the staunchest of Pre'bylerians It
is a singular fact, by the way, that the Rev. Idaao
Newton, a Presbyterian clergyman, whom the ex-
tremely Roman Catholic constituency of Mayo re-
turned to Parliament with a triumphant majority over
an E C , was the real leader of the agrarian “rebel
movement Nautious": When were you loosed T
And since you have been loosed, who trusted you with a
pen P You will come to a bad cud we're afraid, Nautiom.
The end of a good stout shoe ** T. M. K." : Hear
boy, wo don’t like to discourage; but really, though tbe
idea of your “plot” is not bad, the execution is damn-
able. Now what kind of stuff do you call this P—
" But old Sir John, it’s a deal too much.
To cut, and leave him in the larch.
If East Sydney bowers,! lose right and left.
Of every political hope I’ll be bereft."
This punning is like petroleum—it Is pner-ile. We don’t,
think euchre much for either moaning er metre any.
how. Besides, yon have written nine sheets when ouo
would have been enough—in fact, you are too prosy to
write verse "Long Thirteens.”: You are one of
those anonymous idiots whom we answer, because we
cannot pinch. We don’t know in what gutter you are
slumbering, in what look-up you are incarcerated. If
we otid we should wash yon first, and kick you after-
wards. As it is, keep your pothooks and hangers for
the hangman If you p'Opitiaie him with yonr corres-
pondence, he might be dh posed to mercifully give you
a longer drop—when the time comes " A Sub-
soriber.”: 1. Maggie Moore and J. C. Williamson
plaved in tbe “Bibos in the Wood, at the Royal, m
18«0 The piece was a most complete and successful
tuilure. 2 The Cinga'ese who have escaped from the
Maryborough plantations have, probably, joined tbe
Rum “Samuel Bolton Tadloy ’’ (Cooma): There is a
haven for von, Samuel. It is presided over by Dr.
Manning. What’s the geod of your writing to us and
dating yonr letter * # *iovorumcnt Hoob©," and signing
“A. Bloxome, secretary P” There never was any “A.
Bloxome " There was only one Bloxsome, and his
name was Reginald Whither he has gone we know
not. The last time wo feasted our eyes on him, he was
performing for the benelit of his triend, George Forbes,
at the Gaiety. Since thou we have lost him. Alar I
A Looter-on” (Wilton): What do you write with?
A clothes prop or a crowbar ? If with either or both,
try a marline-spike What’s it all about, anyhow r
Write on as manv sides of the paper as you like, only
bo intelligible. However, don’t despair. Tell ns all
about it next week, bnt, paint it on canvas, and nut
plenty of "dryers" into the colour-pot * J C.W. s
Tell us so -nothing we don't know What you send is
bosh. What do we care if a girl lost 13s. out of her be-
’. ind pocket in the markets ? Although, of course, wo
sympathise with you if her loss prevented her from
taking you to the play. You oan do better than
this. If not, try the quarry again, old boy
"B " (Newtown): Thanks “W.MR.’': Used.
• H.H.” (Newcastle): Too vague You do not give us
any details Besides, we are not much interested in
the man. We don’t care if ho were dead .....“Chi Aok
You are too voluminous, dvar boy. Writs it out in two
hues of English—and keep it “A.DU.*’: Have not
had time to resd yet ...“Possum ’: Wo don t mind,
dear boy, your remarks concerning the political corpse
in question, hut, whan you allow yourielf to state that
“ With dreadful ire
He stira the flr«.
On his face there’s a fiendish grin ;
There ho waits,
Watching the paten.
For the Editor of The Bulletin ,"
we are naturally somewhat hurt. But you can rely
upon this, a.-d tell your friends so—if you happen to
have any in the Orange Lodges—that, in case we do go to
tb Hell, we shall make it a lot hotter for them than ever
it was before...“C F.B ": Inband ~“HON.M. : Will
read your items soon as we can get a twelvemonth 8 holi-
day “ Constant Reader”: You say you have raised
it ’’—meaning a wonderful story we told in one of our
late issue'. We don’t doubt you have—but then you
urn such a liar, dear boy.. *GKO • Thank 5.........
“GJ.W.”: On our file “ T C " (Murwillumbah):
Shall deal with the matter when we have eternity Ac
present wo only have time “BG”: Received......
“EM”: Good line; thanks “E L. :Wa deal with
t.hei em “G 1": The ft.sb wo use; the court we
don’t. Bend us nothin? two centuries 01d...” iii :
vYe know him 41 Stray Leives 1 *; Send alon*; out
use the jackplaue first.
Mr. G. C. Loughhan, M.P.
We give the portrait in this issue of Mr. G. C.
Loughnan, one of the two representatives of the
Murrumbidgee in the Legislative Assembly The
present is the second Parliament in which Mr.
Loughnan has occupied a seat. His programme
is one of liberal politics and straightforwardness,
and his abilities ought to guarantee a useful pub-
lic career. (Photo by freeman, of George-street.
J.P (loq ) : “ Such youthful depravity I could
not have imsgained!" (To prisoner cctat 9.):
God, boy, where did you learn to be so wicked?
Prisoner: “At Sunday-school, please sir.'*


PEPPER AND SALT.
Oh Oomo 1 Hanglfc ! “Testimonial to A. C.
Bauuerman, In recognition of his great display of
batting and fielding lu the late Intercolonial Cricket
Match. Subscriptions fer the above will be received
'Ey Sidney Cohan, 875, George-street.”
The B*. Leonard's Rbodbimhi a«ivod a little
while ago, and wo had it immediately locked up for
dninkannes*. Onloalby, howovuv, induced us later to
release it, and w« have before as oaa lem* and blurry
hloonp. Hot only in the psp«c of a diitaesring pdMor all
over, but soma porta trs M light that only tha ghost of
a type ie dkoeralble. But in addition to tho extraordi-
nary appearance of the paper, what con be ppaeled out
of tho letter-press leads one to the unalterable conclu-
sion that them has been a i-hirno of no inconsiderable
magnitude 11 in the nrk." A Mr. Bailoy addressing tha
editor, ways .—” You certainly have been grossly mis-
informed respecting your two discharged • Boosers’
who waited upon mo respecting the starting of another
newspaper at Bt< Leonards.” Tho editor then, in an
“article” headed "Mr. Bliley in Repley (sic) thus in-
dignantly rotorto—“ Because wa prefer to act as we
think conscientiously and refnsing to be paid for
blaguardlng (da) poop’a as we can prove, are we to be
trodden upon or called eatlrleal P” [! !11 In another
pant of the Recorder is an editorial par. which is even
more excessively droll. Here we are“ Wo are desired
to state that it Is tho intention of the proprietor of this
paper to investigate daring the coming week cowardly
slanders set afloat concerning gentlemen connected with
this office.... These people who detract a man behind his
hock whine as most ab j sot ours when one perpetrates {sic)
a j eke even at their muoh more [! I I] if we show them in
their trua colours, but we sincerely and faithfully
promise that is we can only trace (sic) these lying
cowardly assertions to their proper source we will give
good cause to regret their |_! 11] cowardly sneakishness.”
Evidently by this, the blacks must have oome in from
Lavender Bay and gone to work 1 Referring to im-
ppovowents promised, the following allusion to Mr.
Dibbs is worthy, by reason of its splendid composition,
of reproducing “We only hope this is true, for really
it is [!] os we have so often urged about [■] time some-
thing were dome for North Shore. The worst of it is,
however, that some people when they grasp a little
authority lose thatauavitor*(l> iu immodo [III] which for-
mcrly characterised them, draw themstflves up to full
weight pi, and put op such side that one can scarcely
raoogsiso the originator the moment. It may not be
our iot to experience tills, but w<e know people will talk
when they get these rude shocks.” One lost as a bonne
louche ;— 1 “ Heed Qvaß.— We have boon obliged in this
issue to hold over several items such as * Things in
gsneral,’ &c. &c , os also Government and other adver-
tisement [l] to make place for other important infor-
mation, the omission, however, will appear in our
next.” What a grand idea England would have of onr
intelligence if a few of those phantom sheets were
distributed at homel This is probably tho drunkest
journal that has ever appeared iu tho world. Wa can
think of nothing drunker. We wonder how long it will
bake to get sober.
• mm
If tho Town and Country is great at any-
thing it is in its answers to correspondents. It is there
the pure commercial spirit truly shines. Hero’s the
stylo. “Lcta" <Bungjang) : You ask how to breed
cockchafers that bark. Well, use castoco eelerenus
powder. Forward money order for 10s. to this office,
and we will send job some. (2.) If you wish to obtain
the information you require, we advise you to advertise
largely in tho columns of this journal “ Zooba”
(Jamberoo) : The song “ Nelly Bly” can, we believe, bo
procured. Sand money-order for 10s. to us and we will
endeavour to get it for yon. “ Paddy" (Tarban Creek) :
(1.) Having made studious inquiries we consider you
have won your wager. Blue la not the national colour
of Ireland. (8.) Fishing for sjsters with a hook though
a tedious is still a harmless pastime. Remit money
order for Ifts. to this tffioe, and we oan mail you either
hooks or oysters—whichever yen please (3 ) Whtc
the hands meet at tho top of the watch 4t is generally
considered to bo 12 o’clock. If you wagered that it was
13, we consider that yon have lost. The subscription to
this jaurnal la Si. fld. a quarter,” etc. This is what we
like—business!
• • •
The following paragraph appeared in one of last
week’s issues of tha Evening News “ Oao of the
Park howlers on Sanday advertised this journal to the
best of his ability. Ho referred to tha fact of one of its
reporters having been robbed while following the Sal-
vatlon Army, and said there was no fear ©f people being
robbed who attended his services. S.rangely enough,
one of the audience a few minutes afterwards missed
his purse, containing a few shillings.” We should sa>
that this is about the most suicidal piece of writing
Alfred has ever been guilty of. In the first place, there
is a suggestion el facts about it which almost amounts
to wilful deception. It is not stated that the thief in
tha first instance was a lunatic. But perhaps even
Alfred oansidered this unnecessary, knowing it would be
evident to everybody that none but a lunatic—and a
lunatic of a very desperate description at that—would
even think of robbing a News reporter. Tho second
suppression, however, is less excusable. Alfred should
at least have hinted that tho cow-heel did not agree
with tho thief. In faot, wo are informed, it nearly
poisoned him. But the suicidal part la in the state-
ment that “one of tho audience a few minutes after-
wards missed his purse." A News man was on the
spot. Wo do not think anything; we simply smile.
• • •
This Httlo story about Alfred is entered at
Stationer’s Hall. When the old man was bossing the
concern, by way of inculcating literary tastes in the
bre tst of bis flrst-bcr o, ho directed him, tbs serial bo-
ing nearly run out, to choose, somewhere, a little known,
but cxriting and tensational, story. Charmed at being
thus honoured with tho literary confidence of his father,
Alfred immediately sets oat on his mission. Never
having read anything himself except circus posters and
the Evening News, he was naturally, to a certain ex-
tent, dependent upon outside aid. Entering one book
shop, ho proceeded to take up and open a number of
works,reading a page here and there—generally ia the
centre—with a critical eye. At length a passage struck
him. It was this “ Tho city was hushed to a dread-
fnl silence. Tho quiet was unearthly : when suddenly,
out into tha stilly night clanged the dread signal. The
•Mountain’ .” “ • Mountain 1’ There’ll sure to be a
cave further on,’’ muttered Alf., and telling the man to
put it down, he made olf with his treasure. Before he
reached the corner, he heard some one running after
him. It was the shopman Alfred had taken tho 2nd
volume of Carlyle's “ Preach Revolution I"
• •
Now that tho Hon. P. M. Darley has arrived, —
that apostle of “wholesome fun ” I— we think that it
will not be cut of place to airily notice, under its new
rigime (Hicks and J. Q. O’Connor) the Sixpenny
SiDB-SPLirrBR which tho honourable gentleman
proposed (before a jury) to so much admire.
Some modern wag has forwarded us a number
of this fearsome production, and we see it has
au editorial notice, the commencement of which Is
as follows “ Sydney Pcnch having changed hands,
the new management hope to be favoured with the
support so long accorded to this old established ionrnal."
Formerly the paper used to be litho’d, and when filled
with drawings by Glint and Scott used to bo attractive
to those persons whoso portraits figured therein. But
now tho paper is spotted with a number of villainous
woodcuts—like small blisters—and is printed in
an ecoentrlo manner upon paper which is con-
siderably more original than tho ideas embodied
in the chisel outs. The letter-prass is “ wholesome
fun” with a vengeance I We might, of course, be severe
upon it, did we choosa, bat as wo understand the
•‘ copy ” is chiefly furnished by tho dear old ladies at
the Hyde Park Asylum, we feel that it would be un-
gallant to criticise those ancient dames’ efforts too
harshly ! Hera, now, is some of tha smitary humour
which Darley proposes to admire:—“ln re Dibbs.
Daar Maister Aidetar, —It's a’ vara weel for our Preemir
puttin’ oor Dibbs Intel his Traysbery, but I'm thinkln’
thane ’ll bo soma oonfushin gin I gang for ma wee bit o’
paynshun. Gin I spe«r for oor dibe, as I’m vera wool
bekent, thay’ll be thlnkin’ it’s ‘ oor Dibbs ’ I’ll be
wintln’, an’ gin he's nwa’ I’ll be telt to oome again,
etseytn, etsoytra.” Now, is there any man alive who
oauld laugh at this P If lharo is, send him round and
ws will kill him. Then the verse! But there I—no
more of this poor-houso gruel.
We like to find a catholic spirit among the
clergy now and then. Here is an edifying instance. A
church was about to be built In a small town in the
interior, and the parson was made n present of a quan-
tity of bricks for the purpeae. The church was not
built, however, but a hotel was, and the parson gave
away these name bricks to the speculative grog-seller
Wo suppose ho biassed them first. If it were not for
such far-seeing policy as this on the part of the clergy
the devil would have baon dead long ago. And the
clergy would have been breaking road metal.
A country minister, writing to the Howl, to-
marks that “no family should be content without (1)
the weekly general newspaper j (2) the weeklyijreligiouß
paper; and (3) the monthly magazine.” No family,
that respects itself, is. The Bulletin answers to the
first two descriptions, and everybody who is alive takes
it. The third want we shall do ourselves the pleasure
of supplying one of these days. Ihe reverend corres.
pondent winds up by saying that the itor of the Howl
“need not fear that this wou'd injure the circulation ”
of his paper. Quite so. We shall never injure the
circulation of the Howl as long as it continues to be
confined to sans?go-Ehops
* * •
Write on our Tombstone —Died of the Gunda-
gia Times ! It says A rumour has reached us that
Mr. O’Mara, M P., for Tumnt, has stated that be will
move I eaven and earth to get a railway line from Coolao
to Tumut.” Bather a big thing this, for Tom to move,
isn't it. We wonder, hy tho way, who started this
rumour. Surely not T. C. O’Mara, M.P.! Talking of
Tom, wo knew him before be became great. Ho has
even “in the hould times," as Bailey hath it, borrowed
our umbrella, and shared with us the humble, though
luscious trotter; We never approach him now. Once
since his election we were about to tremblingly accost
him and kiss the hem of hia garment. This was at
the tram ofliio. Bat even as wo drew nigh, we saw him
hail a varlet and buy a threepenny flower. Then wo
11 ?d, sobbing as wo went. We felt that the companion,
ship of members who could afford to adorn themselves
with floral decorations was not for us.
• • «
Mr. Nance of the Maoleay, who had nine olive
branches and 47 grandchildren, recently died. He was
followed to his last resting place by old Doase and the
Ksmpsey brass band. Tho gifted editor in an in
wemoriam par. quotes Gray’s elegy
“ Par from the maddening (sic) crowd’s ignoble strife,
Hia sober senses never learned to stray.”
To let tho dead be can’t you learn
When in their graves ?—oh, blow it I
Bat if you must give Nanoe a turn.
You might just spare the poet.
• • •
There waa once (ha is dead now\ a nice civil
servant, who had an exceedingly nice wife (since
deceased), who was often visited by a member of the
Government (address, “ The Necropolis"), and very
happy the three were together in the enjoyment of
one another’s society, and tho whisky which the clerk
had to go out and fetch throe miles off whenever tho
Minister put in an appearance. In a little while the
clerk got his screw raised, and later moved into tho
metropolis of Flim-Flam, without going through tha
form of "parting" to tho tradespeople. To the land,
lady he left the key and hia compliments. A little later
Hyam, the King of Flim-Flam was deposed, and tho
islanders were called upon to elect new rulers. Then
that Minister drove up oftener to that clerk’s residence
chiefly when he was out—and he and the lady took
! council over the political situation together. Then,
when chaos oame in the political world of Flim-Flam,
that clerk was pitchforked into the Department of Pea-
nuts before his chief was ousted. And be Is there still.
No—hang it I We mean he is dead.
• • •
The climax has at last been reached—the highest
acme of journalistic " eccentricity ” has at last been
attained, and in the very quarter from which we should
have looked for it! We have frequently directed, in a
good-humoured way, the attention of our readers to
tho ludicrous nature of tho contents of a little paper
published daily in Newcastle, and called the Herald.
For many years some polemical potterer used to grind
out a lot of bald-headed twaddle weekly, headed “Cave
Adullam,” and as wo deemed it our duty, in the name
of common sense and reason, to call attention to tho
inanity of the whole thing, the old dviveller Cave was
speedily obliged to wind up his wietched little literary
reel amidst the derisive boohoos cf his subscribers.
Later on he started some more of hia ineffable bosh,
which he designated“ Dry Tonics,” “Dry Hot” having
probably, in the first instance, suggested the title.
Well, on Wednesday, 31st of January, the paper oamo
out with two close columns cf this stuff, and we here
quote a sample for our reader's edification. An alder-
man log. “ However, the devil was never so black as
he has been painted, and bad, in a popular sense, as tho
present aldermen had b en delineated by those venal
rags known as the Tasmanian Staggerer, the Sydney
Pull it in, f I -gleton Barkos-is-willin, yet he knew
enough of municipal perennial blundering to be ready
to swear that if they got a new lot of aldermen, they
would be nodifferent from the present.” Of the intellect
of a man vho can pen this galimatias , it is not difficult
to judge, end as might naturally Lava beea expected,
the in-cition of suoh mad matter Jed to fatal results
For, in another part tf tho paper appears a long tele-
gram “ Frcm our own Reporter,” describing the open-
ing of tho Armidale railway, tho wire being dated Thurs-
day evening while the paper, ns we have said bears tha
date Wednesday morning ! ! I ’lbis wire, which was des-
patched before Mr. Copeland and his croud started, states
that ‘ the Ministerial train drew up amidst deafening
ohears,” and that “reproientatives from each of our
Friendly Societies in Armidale presented neatly printed
aidresscs to the Ministry, [I I I] who made appropriate -
rep'ies to each.” Perhaps in tha whole history of
journalism nothing so ludicrous hrs over occurred ns i
rhis! Of coursa, if a poor reporter, who is exposed to -
L emptn<ion in bang allowed to revel unchecked in un-■
limited coarse refreshment, should come to grief, somc-
dlowance might well be made lor him ; but what musti
we think of tha “DryToLic” Jokers at home in their’
office who gravely print a telegram labelled “ Thursday
evening” in their Wednesday’s issue, about a ceremony
which could not by any combination cf circumiitances
have taken place ? It is only men who perpetrate
“Cave Adullams” and “Dry Tonics" who could he
guilty of literary Idches such as this. Tice insertion of
that whisky-and-watery wiro is the natural outcome of
a poor vanity which sees and knows nothing in a paper
but its own vapoury contributions. Now that his paper
s the laughing stock of the colonies, perhaps Mr.
Fletcher will substitute for some of his original
geniuses a few plodders whose souls are less soaring,
and who will descend frcm the lofty pinnacle of origin-
ality and give attention to affairs mundane. There are'
plenty of these hard-working, sober men about—all ot
whom have sufficient intellect to edit the Newcastle
Fletcher— and there is, happily, only one Cave. We
sympathise heartily with the senior member for New-
castle, anyway. We see by Saturday’s issue that be
was so upset by the Armidale telegram that he oould
not accept a testimonial. Another one effered—fancy!
Why, wa thought, in the gift line, ho had “quitfri
cleared oiP the town.”
We’ve often laughel when parsons prim
Have olutohed the parting purse,
But, ob, our smile’s now very grim.
For this “ try en” is too mi I
Wo grinned os they've “ passed round the hat”
When “ Alick’s" stumps wore down.
And thrown the “ plucky little bat”
With scorn a half-a-orown
We’ve smiled whan wo’vo put down our “ tin”
For “ Welcomes” fools had made,
To cunning men—the thing’s " too thin”—
WUo’va made of sport a trade !
But this sick game does on us pall;
The thing’s too impudent ;
We gut our foot down anoe for all
And shriek eat-r-" No< « tent.?
“HE INHERITED HIS FATHER’S-PAPER.”
THE MARINE BOARD OF N.S.W.
“I see her at last!”


BRIEF MENTION.
A Sydney reporter was helplessly drunk in
the Armidale railway train.
We are looking out still for tho disciple of the
Nazarine who will decline a testimonial.
Adelaide Punch : “ Suggestions for cartoons
are always welcome." No doubt ; as bread to a beggar.
Cootamundra Yellowstone heads one of his
columns with “ Crumbs.” Supposed to be the editor's
perks 1
The Herald’s Stella remarks : There is a
good deal in the Princess Louise." So there is—after
dinner.
“The bakers have reduced the price of bread
a halfpenny a loaf.” This is a Press message from
Sydney.
A man who lost a blood filly is offering £lOO
reward in the Tamworth papers. This is getting precious
near the thief 1
They are about to start an Old Colonists’ Asso-
ciation over in Adelaide. It would be a grim joke to
stait one here.
“ A gentleman of means shoots himself,” is the
new beading for “ suicide " in the Lyre. The means he
had were revolvers 1
The coronation of the
Ci ir i* absolutely flxeu for —
doomsday.
M‘ Elhone (politically),
gays John Eoseby, is an hone t
man. Speaking well of the
dead.
The holy cry for a strict
Sabbath, and the apparent
deference paid to it, are like
the last wishes of a dying
man I
The Rev. Kelynack says,
*' The Sabbath is God's Magna
Charta to roan." Is it?
Without it, only tho paisons
would die 1
The butchers and bar-
bers of Brisbane have resolved
to close on the Sunday. This
straightaway brings the head
to the block.
The only points of dis-
similarity between Gladstone
and Woseby are that the one
has a long head and the other
short trousers.
The Wesleyan Confer-
ence is Bitting. •* When two
or three are assembled in
my name—there’s the plate
in the midst of them.”
The “war correspon-
dent” of the Herald got
into fourteen tenses •* on tho
occasion ot Colonel Richard-
son's return from Europe ”
He is still “there.”
An Adelaide telegram
states that a local scientist
finds all the dogs in the South
Eastern districts swarming
with hydatid s. That scientist
will bring the butchers on to
him.
“ Would you like to
shake hands with me ?" said
Captain Sutherland of the
Earmy, to a new convert.
The convert (now pledged to
the truth) considered a few
moments, and then said,
“ N-no—l can't say I would.”
The editor ot the Pas-
toral Times notes a “ singu-
lar lunar phenomenon,” which
“assumed a serpentine ap-
pearance,” and was remark-
able for “ peculiar convolu-
tions ” It may also be men-
tioned as a collateral fact that
the rum in the Upper Murray
district is 20 o.p.
The Lyre thus yelps at
the heel* of Copeland: “I hi
trip of the Ministerial party
for Armidale has begun in-
auspiciously. A passenger on
the Maitland drowned, and
one of the railway carriages
on fire at Singleton.” Nothing
more, Alfred? Were tbei-e
no reporters with the party ?
Was there no one drunk
abroad ?
It is reported that there
is a man on the Bum who has
a hide so thick, that when
kicked by a cow in a shed the
other day, he turned round to
the oritie of the Shroud, who
was likewise waiting for a free
drink, and said —“ I sai Ino
larks with your tooth-pick.”
The Beqa Standard; is
riled because we did not like
it* almanio. Itdid not know,
it says, we were so hard to
please ; and then calls ns rude
names This is the last time
we will ever good-naturedly
“ guy " that editor. We have
scratched the Chinaman and
found the Tartar.
The Tamworth Ob-
beaver says:—“We had in-
tended to send a reporter to
the first Flower and Poultry
Show in connection with the
a. and H. Society, Murrur-
undi District, but owing to
the change of Government
the railway pass did not arrive
in time, and we cannot any
longer do public work on pri-
vate money." Hero is jouraa-
lifitio enterprise and no mis-
take 1 After this. Hooka
ought to be called the James
Gordon Bennett of potato
and cauliflower journalism.
The statistics which have appeared in the papers
recently with regard to the pittance Chinamen can live
upon, has, we are informed, fired Alfred with the idea
of employing them upon the literary staff.
A ring-barker writes to the Gunnedah Adver-
tiser :— •* A very carious accident was averted recently
by the Providential iaterfeienoe of a clergyman, not
many miles from Qairindi.” This correspondent will
be a fettlor one day.
A Government advertisement appears in some
ot the country papers calling tenders tor the local work.
The said local work has been finished some months. The
apology is—the advertisements appear in the Armidale
papers.
“ ®nce more,” whines a Moruya paper, “ we
have to remind our constituents that we are in want of
oil for our machinery.” The last time the editor was
down for glue it locked as if he wanted oil for hi*
hair.
The Noozs is ec'ipsing the Rum. Thus of the
Natal affair :—“lt b almost needless to add that the
wines were arranged and terved with that exquisite
taste which is aiw-ys a speciality of French feet "
' Calves’ feet 1 I
Here’s a chance for a lodger! Smoking hot
1 from the Herald : * Comfortable board and residence,
single room, respectable man, bath, piano, £l. lb
- Albion-etreet.” We wonder if they would make any
redaction it you didn’t want the “ respectable man.”
Says the Gunnedah Advertiser “ There’s
scarcely a green thing to be seen about tho town.” Is
the editor looked-up ?
A well-known M.P., who does the “ lofty cen-
sorious” in the Assembly, fell down the stairs drunk tho
other evening. Now who is this M.P. ?
Penalty of greatness! The Coonanbirra Hat
has been introduced into “Madame Angot" by the
South Opera Company.
The Rum says that two Surry Hills women
“ fought like tigresses." Tho writer had evidently the
night before dreamt a whole caravanful of D.T.’s.
Tho Abmidale Chronicle, dealing with the
Ministry, says something the effect —“ We'd like a
fair trial ourselves.” They 7 !! get it some day.
There has been a large issue ot pawn tickets
lately. They are gilding the gates of the Jewish
Synagogue in Elizabeth-street. Hosannah I
A Queensland paper acknowledges receipt of a
“ fine sample of machine-made brick.” It was received
through the window of the editor’s slab sanctum.
Grafton telegram :—“ A Cingalese has made his
way overland here from Brisbane, and ia bound for
Newcastle.” To edit tho Hidebound Fletcher.
The tram ran over a Chinaman on Saturday,
and the Evening Alfred how cries out “Away with the
trams.” It was only the other day, at the Envt Sydney
election, theLTBE cried ont “ Away with ihe Chinese."
When a man, the other day, was asked if ho
liked the Echo, ho said: "Capital reading, capital
reading—except what they write themselves."
The Mudgeb Independent observes with
regret that “ Anniversary Diy in the town was marked
by an entire absence ot all disappation." Mndgee is
going to the dogs.
Reading over tho “Stock Market’’ in the
Southern Pinkstone, a fellow asked, 11 What docs a
country editor fetch now—on tho average?” The
reply was, “On the average—water.”
An Adelaide Conference man, high up in the
art of obliterating sin, observed at a late meeting that
“ he felt ton years younger than ever he had been in
his life.”
Anup-oountry bench intends “dealing severely”
with witnesses who attend court with dirty faces and
soiled linen. This is a new way to ofush tho country
press-
A blaokfellow killed a Chinaman out West, the
other day. The defence was that the Chinaman had
called him “John Davies.” A verdict of justifiable
homicide was returned.
A man over in Melbourne has invented a machine
that goes through the air by eleotiicity. This is very
good, bat not as good as the machine a Bum man in-
vented a week or two ago, which he works simply by
the strength of bis breath. It seems almost super-
fluous to state that it is a sausage-machine.
The Godly Gribblk is right. Civilization is
extending among the aboriginals. Those sent down to
tho mission are not nearly so black as they were I
Perth telegram “At the special services on
the last Sunday Sir William Robinson was in the colony
only the hymns ot His Excellency’s composition were
sung.” There’s a fool in every family.
The Bathurst Free Press has from i's “ own ”
foreign correspondent, a full account of tbedeath of the
Bey of TnnK Couldn’t be give ns something about
the Bay cf Woollcosiooloo ?
Alfred has inserted the portraits in the T. and
C.. cf several murderers boiled down into one and
labelled it—“J. N. Franker ” Ontraee upon outrage,
when will they ceace. If Alf. had only written the
biography himself, the thing would have been comp! eta.
The editor of the Manning River Mud-
Dredge says he “does not care for costly funeral*, ’
Wo don't think this little trait ot character i* likely <o
be disregarded when ho dies. Editors *rs not usually
planted with, much pomp—when tbey are buried ly
subscription.
That young gusher “ Gypsy” has evidenly been
on a visit to Alfred, and has ciugbt some of hi* classical
English. Writing of tho match she eloquently says :
• Another rich dress appeared on A. B. C., and
was of garnet satin trim.- cd with cream luce, bonuot
corresponding.” Not a word though about Alf., who
- wj know was there
Jhe Rockhampton -■KQUS says that a man
•' seized an escaped box by the throat, though its fatal
fold* were around his legs, and killed hi.i instantly by
throwing a bottle of carbolic acid down his throat.” It
would take more than a bottle of carbolic acid to kill
a Eookbampton editor.
The Evening Lyre had its reporter on board
the Ministerial steamer, and his wire from Niwcastle
was that “ tho party was neither so select nor so influer-
tial as might have been expected ” Was Alfred then
absent ? We’ll next hoar cf the Lyre being no longer
read in Sussax-street.
The Penny Alfred informs its readers that
a lady describes a gentleman a* “ a human being with a
woman’s tenderness and a man’s courage.” Good,
Alfred. Now we’ll tell you what a gentleman of the
Press is. •* A human being wi h the capacity of a cask
and the salary of a serf 1"
Under the heading “literary,” the Maclbay
Dxase announce* the arrival of a man who sell* time-
payment Bilila* and tho oleograph* of democraoy.
When George Augustus Sal* arrives at Kempsey w*
suppose be will figure under the description of ‘ Colonial
Produce ”
The other day, at Bathurst, Alderman Jones
said he would punch Alderman Hellyer’s head. Tom
cried —“Come on,” and, like Mr. Pickwick, “threw
himself into a paralytic <*ttitude, confidently supposed
b* ibe by-standers to have been intended as a posture
of defence.” Neither “came on.” Bo nothing came off
The Brisbane branch of the Salvation Army W
getting broken up. The two leaders have quarrelled.
They could agree flr*t-olass on points of theology, but
when it oame to sharing what was in tho hat, they were
as human as other holy men. Now each damns the
followers of the other. There is nothing new under tho
sun.
An Emigration Agent lecturing about Queens-
land In an English town said it was going to be the
garden of tho world, and enumerated such a number of
luscious products which were peculiar to it, that several
of the audience signified their intention to start for
it at once. He main'alned a frozen silence, however,
about tho rum they make up theie.
The editor of a Queensland paper (published
fomowhere between Rockhampton and H«ll) intimates
that he will never refuse poems When ths soulful
Sladen reads this item he will »o up to live with that
edi'or. And Lewis Scott and Pastor Allen will follow
him That’s why we publish it. We yearn to wiite
their obituaries.
The Nepean Times gives the following social
item :—“ Mr. Joyce ha* had the name of lis hotel
change! from the * Wheelrights’ Arms’ to the* Nep an
Hotel.* This ii n st*p in the right direction. Nepean
i* a popular name it you like ; and the first time we rre
passing the old man’s, we’ll call in and dr nk susoes* to
ihe Nepean Hotel and to the Nepean Times." Mr.
Joyce whan he read this went out and wept It was,
however, too late for him to return to the oil name I
When Dan O’Connor
called Alderman Witbeis
“the incarnation of medio-
crity,” the latter lost a fine
chance by not observing that
Dan was "the mediocrity of
incarnation I *
Joseph Cook, on arrival
in Boston, said that the
amount of his takings at lec-
turing would not pav bia ex-
penses. Well, either Joe must
have extensively subsidised
the ballet, or he mast believe
there is no hell.
Saturday’s News con-
tains—re the Natal—these two
gorgeous periods:—“The re-
presentative of the Messa-
geries Maritimes Company
while well sustaining the
national reputation for polite-
ness, have (sic) exhibited com-
mendable prudence in thus
securing the goodwill of the
ladies. But to congratulate
them on the display of quali-
ties which seem the natural
heritage of their race wou'd be
almost superfluous Ties chec .
valiers ( sic ) Erancais telle (sic)
est le caractcre. ’ Tlis is the
outburst of a man captivated
with claret, ravished with
rag6ut. What he wanted to
sav was—“ Des chevaliers Fran*
cats, tel est U caractere. But
he couldn’t do it. There was
too much on his mind. Other
duties connected with his
appointment. Some aesthetic
trifle The oiling of a cog-
wheel—the grooming ot a
horse. But after *ll, Alfred,
old boy, let this console you
Your man’s French is darned
near as good as his English,
though it is not so funny.
David Buchanan, with
that modesty for which ho is
so eminently distinguished
has published, iu pamphlet
form, his “speeon delivered
January 17th, 1883, in the
Legislative Assembly, on the
occasion of the meeting ot
Parliament under the new
Government formed by Mr.
Stuart ” That is what is on
the cover —or some of it.
David is vrry proud of this
oration ; very proud indeed.
Going up to Armidale, he
sowed it. as it were, broadcast
on the line to such an extent
that when the train came
back there was not a perter
all the way do wn to Ne west tie,
who. when ho caught sight of
Davy, hadn’t a grin on him as
broad as a soup-tureen. With
a pleasant humour, Mr.
Buchanan has pitted this
apeeob taickly with “Cheers,”
“ loud cheers." “ grea t laugh-
ter,” “ loud laughter and
cheers,” eto., a proceeding
which speaks equally to ihe
depth of his humour, asd the
breadth of his imagination.
Of G. H. Eeid, saith
this gifted orator : " 1
am not surprised at that
honourable gentleman's rise;
such as it is, considering tho
quantity of gas be contains
(much laughter) he has gone
up like a baloon, and like a
la loon he will come down,
probably, in the usual state
of wrecka passage which
at once impresses npt>n us
the |ide<v that Mr. David
Bucbana'i, of the Middle
Temple, Barrister at- Law,
has, in addition to having a
spirit above consistency, a
soul above spelling The
speech, as a speech, is of about
us much value, from a literary
point of view, as is one of
David's fervid pitches in do-
fending a woman at the
Quarter Sessions from a
charge ot stealing a flat-iron.
We are quite certain, how-
ever, that nothing will ever
persuade Mr. Buchanan that
his address on the meeting of
Parliament is destined to be
one of the Nation’s most
valued archives—so we are not
going to try. Tho pamphlet
is printed by Lee and hose,
whu ought to have known
bettor Ilian “ baloon,” even if
David didn't.
Mr. Patchett, a Wesleyan minister, died sud-
denly, tho other day, at the Adelaide Wesleyan confer,
enoe. Then says the report, "the conference broke up
suddenly, but at the president’s desire re-assembled,
ssnga hymn, and offered up pnyer.” He is still dea«>.
There’s now a ruau ur abroad that the rev. gentleman
reached “ the shuah " before the pray er.
More tears! The Manning Rxvbb Times, a
paper which “scarcely ever,” says it is sorry to hear
that Mr. E B Smith has suffered a relapse, the dis-
ease this time breaking out in both hands.” We are
very sorry too, and since the consequences of wearing
gloves on cur hands seem to be so serious, we will only
wear them on cur feet in future.
A Tiaro (Q ) firmer had a hen that laid an egg,
th« measurement being five inches in circumference and
tbiea inches la length. Injids the egg wa« found an
ordin«ry-sized hard-shell egg, surroundedby albuminous
matter and a yoka." H« sent it to the editor of the
Maryborough paper to get a par , intending t« after-
wards exhibit it. When ho called at the ofina he found
that both the par. and the egg had been inserted.
Says the Suburban Terrier: “Residences
are being erected at Maodonaldtown near the rail way with
great rapidity.” And, in the next lin*; 11 There is not
a great deal of building going on In Maodonaldtown at
present" We should say it would bo a graceful thing
for the building contractors out there to put a copy of
this able journal under the foundation stone of the
next home they build. And bnry the editor with it.
H[?]RCULES AND THE PYGMIES.


Murdoch, the cricketer, says he’s full of it. Hie
p >okets are.
The Political “ Reform ” Association of N.S.
Wales wont wash.
The Tenterfield Star is going to “ take an
early opportunity of bringing some matters prominently
before our membah.” Financial matters, eh I
We see that Ikey has been re-elected secretary
to the Benevolent Asylum. That is (rood. It is prefer-
able to see a man go in for lying-in rather than lying,
out.
A young man was arrested in Ballarat lately,
for impersonating a detective. This is almost as bad as
impersonating a voter for Eenwiok. Bat let the dead
rest.
In Laucofston a prominent railway official said
“ things" abont the sister of an M.L C., whereupon the
latter laid for the P. E. O. and booted him. TheP. E. O.
'"ants compensation ; the M L C. only wants a new pair
o’ shoes.
Says the editor of the Northern [Star, a
little journal, published in Liamore : — 11 An unfortunate
cow, with a running fibula or oauoar in its ey«, oan ba
seen in front of this offlie." Well, we think he ouerht
to ba ashaued of himself for standing before his offloe
in such a condition Where, wa should like to know,
are the aathoritias ?
Emil Zolfi, who belongs to the regular staff of a
Parisian paper, is nervously irritable on the subject of
editorial alterations to his oopy. A few corrections in
a nawaoipcr article will completely prostrate him, and
he will be unfitted for work for days. Another great
writer, Jack Soantlebury, is almost equally as suscept-
ible. But great men wars ever eccentric I
This is a stern fact. He was a typical Sydney
hoodlum whom marriage had not sobered, nor a billot
under Government chastened. He and a party of friends
happening to be at —wa won’t sav where—.same suddenly
upon two ladies bathing. “ Hang it, let’s run back
quick,” said of the party. 11 Oh never mind I" said the
bydney youth ; “ it’s only my missis and her sister.’*
Avapata Koti, Maori chief of Kaiapoi, has just
died. He was only 91 years of age when ha quitted life.
It seems that one of his sons returned lately from a
sojourn among the Pakehas, and brought back a custom
of theirs of cleaning the teeth occasionally The sight
of this tff-isminanoy killed the brave old warrior He had
picked the skulls of a hundred enemies, and had never
cleaned his teeth since he out the first instalment.
Fifty female convicts have been sent out from
France to marry fifty male convicts in Now Caledonia.
It is not specified whether the a'lotmeit is to be left
to mutual consent or decided by "shaking ia the hat"
Anyhow we think it would be a graceful and appropriate
thing if soma of our first families here ware to send over
s >me little wedding presents to theso cheerful couples
us tokens of sympathy from the old to the young.
By order of the Maytown (N Q ) P.M., the
Court-house was dona np recently, and a big spiked
prisoner’s pen, which had been erected for the protec-
tion of the jurymen, was ordered to bo taken away. In
due course the Sessions came round, and when the
prisoners saw the alteration thev tugged for the spiked
dock again. And glancing fearfully at the “ good men
and true,” they tremblingly asked for an adjournment.
Wo are sorry to soe by the Gundaqai El-
wortht that “ Miss Wallson has hit her funny bone.”
Without easting about to know where her “ funny
bone ’* is, wa will content ourselves with slating, on
iho authority of the paper, that she has recovered.
Had it not been so, we suppose it would have been a
case of general mourning. Who the deuce is Miss
Wellaon. Hang her “ funny bone I"
There’s a “medium” here who goes off in a
franco, and then professes to cure anything. A man
sent him a leg of pork the other day, so the story goes,
nnd asked him to cure that. Two days later the
far 9 aur called for the ham. "Alas, I have failed this
once,” said the *• medium," with a sigh ; " but I have
buried the patient at my own expense " If paople oan
believe this without bursting a blood-vessel, by all
means let them do it. We broke a sinew writing it.
This ad. we take from the News : —“ Wanted,
a wetnurse, single woman preferred. Apply for ad-
dress, .” Except when a man has advertised for a
labourer in the field of the Gospel who’d go for 6a. a
day and his tucker, wa have never seen a-a application
more impossible to obtain. Why, over since the doctor
fetched us out of the gooseberry bush, we have always
been told that a single girl could not bo a wetnurse. We
don’t know why. Tltey didn’t explain.
At a reoont entertainment at the Hyde Park
Asylum for old women, we notice that " when the
concert was over, speeches were delivered by Messrs.
T Slattery and Merriman, M.’s L.A , and Hicks ” We
wonder what little Punch talked about, anyway, “dear
boy." Looking over t h e list of paid and honorary
otfioials, we don’t fled Hicks has got anything to do
with it- He’s not n visitor, nor a superintendent. Can
ho be one of tho old women ?
The Rev. Garnsey, at the Benevolent Asylum
meeting, moved the adoption of the annual report, and
expressed himself perfectly satisfied with the working of
the institution 1 We have never met a clergyman that was
otherwise than satisfied wilh the working of any insti-
tution. “Ho saw it nearly every day." Ha lives next
door to it. "If the women whe are accouched in it wore
duchesses they could not b> treated with greater
courtesy." This is nows, indeed ! It must be ohalkad
oa the pavement—in King-street.
We are grieved to see that scientists are “ un-
decided whether the eozoon canadense is something
which lived and died, or a more mineral structure."
We are grieved, because we oan foresee the dilemma
s wants uf tho future will be in when they dig up the
skull of John Davies. But, on second thoughts, there
is no cause for grief. When this diver in dirt goes
under for the last time, he will not stop till he reaches
the bowels of the earth. Aud the earth will have a
vary sick pill to digest.
The Reverend Kirby, of the Social Parity Club,
is over at Adelaide jest now. In one of his speeches
before the spectacled Tabitbas there, he made the
s’atement that " chief constable M’Coll, of Glasgow,
where a society of that kind (Social Parity Club) had
existed for many years, reported that in that city,
which was immensely larger than Adelaide, there was
not a third of the lost women.” The reverend is right.
There are very few lost women in Glasgow. They are
too much at home to be lost.
A now Sir Walter Raleigh hag been found. It
was at the Bristol Musical Festival. The Duke and
Duchess of Edinburgh were just alighting from their
carriage. There had been heavy rain and the streets
were anklo-deep in mud. Tho Duchess would have had
to alight in this only that a gallant town councilman
stepped forward and flnng his overcoat dowa upon the
dirty pavement. But he has not been knighted for
this knightly a"b He has not even bean offered a
O M G.-ship. No wonder that the age of chivalry is
dead.
We are to have a chess tournament with living
figures in Sydney shortly Parkes and Hobertsou will
be the black and white kings respectively, Garrett and
Lucas the rooks, Pat Jennings and the College-
street pensioner two knights, Holterman and Dangar
two castles, and the pawns will be represented by a
select assortment of Sydney “ uncles," marshalled
by the great Jerry Murphy, of West Sydney fame The
proceeds of the game will be devoted to the formation
of tho nucleus of a consolation fund lor defeated
candidates.
The Gdndagai Times says there is no energy
in the Guiidagai young men. They won’t play cricket,
or subunribe to the School of Arts—only a total of 25
out of 590 putting their names down oa tho list. Tho
Gandagai puople, mournfully remarks Elworthy, don’t
go in lor anything. This statement is a bit rush, we
consider, aud exhibits an instance of indifferent editing,
the editor of the Gundauai Times, in all this
does not seen to think of one thing. If the
Qiindagites were vigorous, intelligent, go-ahead people
—ahem!—where would he be ?
Wo understand that a certain M.P. will apply,
shortly, for leave to bring in a new bill. It will be to
enforce the caterer at the Parliamentary rooms to
supply four courses for sixpence with a portorgafl
thrown in. * L.-avo also is to bo given to hon. members
ta camp in tho ladies’ gallery; and the M.P. will
require it to be made law that a skilful half-sole-and-
healer be kept continually on the parliamentary pre-
mises to manipulate the bluchers o< hou. members for
a nominal gratuity. There is also one clause relating
to blacking, and another to inaoot-powdor, but we
forget their exact phraseology.
A Parramatta policeman has turned horse-
shoer. He said he wasn’t well connected enough for a
billet in the Poet Offloe. and ho wanted to be honest.
“Hugh Taylor, Esq , M.P., with unusual feeling.” says
Fkrqt, " in the name of the subscribers, presented the
purse, in doing which he pud a wall-merited compli-
ment to Mr. Daffy, who both as a constable and watch-
housekeeper had shown that he had a proper sense of his
duty to the public as well as to the honourable body to
which he boionge-l.” Mr. Daffy, “ who was completely
taken by surpr ia e,” said that he shou'd remember that
night until— [ Chat’ll do now, Ed. B.]
The Qdeanbetan Age has a par. about the
Summer number of the Graphic. Sats the gifted Gale:
“ As some idea of the cost of work (colour printing) of
this character, we may state that our chromo-almanac
recently presented to the public by the proprietor of
the Age was produced at a coat of £50." The coat of
the Graphic number seems to have been £20,000. John
might hare gone on with his comparisons and given ns
the wage-list of his captivatingoompoaitreasea. By the
way, let it be known by those presents that there is
always an opening here for a lady compositor whose
figure is not of the top-boot order, and whose freckles
are not larger than cheese-plates, and who sports a num-
ber five smile.
The Mordya Examiner man states that “ wa
should like our frieads to regard the Examiner as a
kind of joiat stock association of amateur share-
holders.” Poor shareholders I He says nothing how
ever, as to what dividend they are to get out of the three-
legged kittens, two-headed calves, and gigantic cab-
bagesthat are occasionally sent to the office. We sup-
pose these are editorial perks. He also hints that ‘‘ a
word in season from his frieads would do much to gain
new subscribers ” sonny : what you want is a
shot-gun—a boll-mouthed shot guu. ThU is the only
possible inducement we cau oonoaiva of to bring sub-
scribers to your piper. Who cares *or your poor little
paper anyhow ? If you can’d live, why die, sir, die.
If this is not true, we will di s—or our informant
will, whioh is the same thing. It was at a watering
place in Victoria. A complimentary supper wis being
given to certain gentlemen who were to leave next
morning. One of them, a Scotchman — say, Mr.
M’Savish—who had the amiable weakness of his country-
men for whiukr, in rising to respond to some toast or
other, said that ne didn’t know ho w to make a speech,but
ha did know how whisky was made, ani would tell the
company. “Whusky,” he began, ‘‘is made o’ maut
an’ ye put the maut an a stull au’ it gaes thra’ a warm
an' it oooms aut wheite like wa-ater. Thau its put an
auither stull nn’ gaoa thra’ anither wurrm bn eooms
aut wheitn agoen. an’ then ate’ pat in ” —" And then its
putin M’Savish,’’ suggested one of the company.
“A well-to-do Tamworth farmer” advertises
for an industrious wife, and 11 will keep her in a manner
becoming her station.” We know that farmer well.
Wa have met him ia several places, but he 'uxuriates
chiefly in the Tamworth diatriot. He is tired of getting
up in the morning milking, and. after fifteen years at
it, he finds that chopping wood blister? his hands. So
he wants a wife Hs don't care about looks, bless you ;
not he I Sinew is his dart—and bone—and 11 industry.’’
Well, if this farmer’s ad. seduces a damsel into marry-
ing him, she will have a high old time. She needn’t
mind taking riuoh of a trousseau with her. She won’t
require it She’ll wear her husband’s boots, the cow-
boy’s hat, and a dog’s-wool and oakum pattiooat. And
she’d i batter leive her and decalco-
mania materials at her mother’s. She 11 have no time
for cultivating the fine arts.
The Gdnnedah Advertiser adjures its
reader to ante up, and tolls him that “fit. William
Keys yesterday sent ui nearly a bucketful of ‘Early
Eose ’ potatoes, grown by him at his selection, Ked
Creak. They icere a splendid potato, and superior to
anything we have had on onr table for a long time.”
Alas I they were “ a splendid potato 1” and it testifies
to the editor's “ twist ” that ho can eat a bucketful of
potatoes in two days I He considers the editor of his
contemporary (the Namoi Independent) “willnover
be anything like so useful as either [a journalist or a
printer] ; and, though he may ‘ lay tne flattering unc-
tion to his soul' that he may become a journalist, we
believe he will never be more than a drivelling tinker at
the business." Later on, though, the fire seems to have
more fiercely raged, for the Advertiser, wa see, pub-
litbes in its most recent issue, a notice in pica, lead;d,
in which it says ef the rival editor: “We may be
tempted to horsewhip or trounce tha hound if ha don’t
turn over a now leaf. If he knows what that mi ana ”
Wo leave him with this parting advice: Cease black-
guarding, and spend the leisure thus accruing in bring-
ing out a paper a touch above the Patagonian style.
“ Contrary Billy” ia an exciting story which
recently appeared in the Presbyterian Billy was a
pedlar’s horse, and one day ho jibbed. Then—with the
thrilling manner in which the action is developed—
“ His master got out of the waggon, and patted him.
Billy would not stir.
He moved the harness a little, hero and there.
Billy would not stir.
He talked to h>m in a very nleasant tone
But Billy would not stir. He said, “ I won't."
What was to bo done."
The end win that his master gave him something ia a
pail,as the story dramatically c oncludes as follows :
“The meal was better for Billy than a whip.”
Now we do not question the literary excellence of his
production, nor do we doubt for a single instant that
the effect of the tale on the ’bus drivers of the city will
bo startling; but its originality wo certainly do
question. Surely Contrary Billy must have beau
inspired by this touching and time-honoured lyric :
If I had a donkey wot wouldn’t go
D'ye think I’d wallop him ? No, no, no I
I’d take him to Jarley’s Wax-work show.’'
There I That’s a ermher for the holy editor.
In taking leave of his constituents, the editor of
the St George Standard writes as follows :—“ Almost
everything that has ever appeared in the columns of
this paper has disagreed with them. To their enmity I
gratefully ascribe whatever success may have attended
my efforts to run a straight and independent paper.”
This man, whoever he is, hath a pleasant humour.
And, being thus endowed, he didn’t get ou. It’t only
men like Hooke and Cooke, and tha little Parramatta
Pewter that calls himself a journalist who can run a
country paper profitably. By the way, when Cookie was
a member, ne always used to bo skirmishing rouad for
ads. Well, on his card was, of course, emblazoned his
legislative lith; and this, at first, alwayo assured him
an interview with the person he wished to see—which,
with a canvasser for ads., is supposed to be two-thirds
of the battle. At last, however, “ Cooke’s cards ” got
twice as well known as Playfair’s cigar, but it was never
half so much respected. Nobody was ever in. It was
no wonder that, after a hard days’ tramping from one
sewing machine depot to another, Henry Harrie felt too
tired to go on to any question that didn’t affect—no ;
not the nation —the Forbes Times. By the look of
the last iasne, though we are inclined to wish Cooke
had been re-elected. Ho doesn't turn the double-demy
half so well as the boy di-I.
A Sydney curate was beloved of several. Far
more popular than the curate Hopley Porter, the
favour lavished on our hero by his parish ran closely to
that which was the meed of Porter’s rival —the ‘ Curate
of Aeses-railk-cum-Worter” in the ballad. He (our’s
we mean) had mere embroidered slii pers than six of
the Anglic in clergy could have worn out in a lifetime,
and as for braces-he had enough suspenders to have
hung the whole Kelly gang. Ho encouraged each fair
one alike, —in short—
They ware oharmerr, he said, one and.all.
And impartially he with all flirted,
Till at leugtVi one day it did befall,
A proposal, behold ! he out blurted!
Now no more he asks nice riddles—“ When is—”
No more he gets lollies and kisses I
No more on the lawn he plays tennis ;
But he shepherds the kids and the Misses I
And the East Sidney ladies all laugh
When they think of their curate so giddy;
And they say, “ Oh, was he not a calf,
Just to taka (with two kids) a nice widdy I”
Yet there’s weeping and wailing, and gnash-
ing of teeth; for some cannot endufla it;
They moan, leave nntasted their hash,
And mourn for the lOia of their curate.
Now this is the very last par. we are going to
write about the rejected of Wollombi until he gets
another seat. Going into the Parliamentary library one
day he happened to light on the only Dave, reading (for
he bath a classical mind) a pocket edition of Chaucer,
Looking over his shoulder Joe saw fytte 1 and fytte 2 in
the book, when he said to Buchanan —“What’s that
you’re reading P’’ “ Chaucer," growled David,
“Saucer? 1 ’ exclaimed Joseph. "Chaucer," repeated
Dave. “I< ic good ?" enquired Joe. "Splendid—
splendid: buy it; you’ll never like anything better
Every varied chord of the human heart is struck by the
genius of the poet, whose Hues are ethereal, mellifluous
—subli'na." Joseph, rather stunned by this outburst,
treasured up what he could of it, and went home to
dinner When ho was through with the carving (he’s a
snendid carver, bythe-way, and there is a legend to the
elf act that ho knows exactly how many acres of ground
a joint properly manipulated can be made to cover;—)
he went round to a book shop, and said—" I want that
book of poetry ’’ ’• What’s the author?" enquired the
man “ Something like—er—horse or sauce," says Joe,
who had only a dim recollection. “ Don’t keep it," said
the man. “ It’s a sporting thing—about the ring any.
how.” "Could it be ‘The Bing and the Book, by
Browning?”’ enquired the attendant. “Likely as
not," said Joseph hopefully; " but I know it’s about
the Bing, because there’s two fyttes in it."
Jenny.
AN AUSTRALIAN STORY.
CANTO II.
I.
Slow o’er a weary waste a weary comer.
Scarce lifting blistered feet, dragged on his way
Through sore dumb wood!, grown ghastlier and
dumber
Beneath the torrid breath of Queensland's day.
Wbat time the fiery petulance of summer
Smote from the low-huag sun in vengeful ray
Upon a land all ashen, dim, and larid;
Fainting from strata of woe too long endured.
n.
A hard, high, cruel way, a region lifted
By Nature's spite above all bsds of shade,
O'eratrewn with blasted granite shocked and rifted
In baleful lightnings when the world was made ;
Where aimless winds came by and parched and shifted
Red sapless leaves that from their birth decayed—
A threne whence solitude, supreme and boundless.
Reigned o'er a kingdom fruitless, scentless, soundless.
in.
Scant trace was there of life, of habitation;
Of man’s contriving not a mark or sign,
Along the miles that stretched between each station.
Where water was, a goodlier gift than wine.
A lonely half-known road through desolation
To some far spot where hope of golden mine^
Had bnr.it out flitne-lika for men-moths pursuing.
To flicker low mid scenes of death and rain.
IV.
The wayfarer an outworn feeble man was ;
In tattered garment! he was ill-arrayed.
Torn, patched old rags of thinner texture than was
Enough to yield oonoqealment or to shade
His trembling bedy. In his hand a can was
Black with the guarantee of tea oft made ;
And on his cowering, unable back was
A swag which qivtoas large as Christmas pack was.
v.
A damaged dog, with tail and ears depending.
Came limping after with out-hanging tongue—
A dog grown grey in faithfully attending
The master he had loved when fleet and young.
And these two passed o’er livid breadths unending.
While over all an evil torpor hung.
And wreathed in Aims all tremulous and pallid,
A spot where God's sweat moroy was invalid.
VI.
Ah me I ah me I Two ohubby children growing
In health and beauty in same English nook.
Romping amid the apple-blossoms snowing.
Or Vexing barefooted the summer brook.
Or 'owered in yellowing wheat, no thought bestowing
On unlearned lesion and neglected book.
Tasting the truant’s ovor-pnrohaset pleasures.
Two rosy, reckless boys—a mother’s treasures.
VII.
One p-rfeot man life’s altar-stairs achieving.
Up to the very thresh old of a throne ;
One meagre outcait, siok and sor a and irriaving
O'er buried 1 >vns and hopes for ever fl own ;
One with a splendid consciousness receiving
Applauses thousand-throated trumpet tone ;
On i crushed at first in stern re morse'e is strife,
lief D groaning through a low unholy Ufa.
VIII.
One dying king-like, while a nation presses
Without his doors to hug the earliest sign
Of hope—istatesman whom a people blesses,
And loves as something touching the divine ;
Oue vanquished by keen infinite distresses,
Nor huviug grace to say “ Thy will, not mine,”
Fighting a shameful end in tears and cursing.
Bo Fate repays a mother’s equal nursing.
ix.
So. breast in t tardily each hostile shoulder
Of barren hill that met tneir onward course.
Through sandy rifts where many a giant braider
Was piled by some old bygone torrent’s force
Long ere the sound of Pharaoh’s battles rolled, or
The yonng Nile trickled from its mystic source.
These two wont on mid quiverings of laugour.
While all the zenith burned with fourfold anger.
x.
And on o’er steppes all arid, crisp, and glaring,
Where never came the blessed kiss of rain,
With one far white horizon aver staring
Out at the other o’er a hueless plain,
Some moments halting by ths way and sharing
The bitter water that did yet remain
Within the billy, then again progressing
Full slow o’er dreary latitudes depressing.
XI.
Still onward faintly to the eastward crawling,
Till in the west the son grow low and red.
And a gaunt shadow rising up and falling.
Outpaced the wanderer ; and far ahead
Seemed as a spectre beckoning and calling
Back to his tomb one risen from the dead.
And onward yet until the track he followed
In a broad beaten rpad was wholly swallowed.
XII.
Then ho sat down, and took a red bandanna
From his torn hat, and wiped his aged face.
While his dog, scenting an obscure *• gohanna,”
Pricked up his ears and gave it feeble chase.
(This is the substitute for desert manna
Which is most loved by many a dneky race ;
I’ve often sat down cheerfully to worry
This toothsome viand at remote Clononrry.)
XIII,
And after resting he arose, and taking
His heavy swag again, went weakly on.
Till, when warm-breathing night was widely breaking
Above the west, and all the Are was gone
That fringed with gold far clouds of iron, making
Fair glows of amber and vermilion,
He won a hilltop, whence he taw before him
A sight which shed a flush of gladness o’er him.
XIV.
Not half a mile away a fire was blazing
Beside the road, and many bony pairs
Of bullocks now unyoked were sadly grazing
On such scant grass as in odd places dares
To grow. And further on, directly facing
The road, was one of Satan’s safest snares,
A fouler nest than aught conceived by Dante—
A slab-wrought,snake-juice-baited Queensland shanty.
xv.
Whereat his pace increased. Haste not to blame him,
0 sinless Eechabito of brow austere,
Because a mightiness of thirst o’eroame him—
A giant yearning for colonial bear ;
But ere you sternly hasten to disclaim him.
Just hump yenr swag around for, say, a year.
And when you’ve tramped it through the Northern
bush, you
Will wish you were with even the Jews in Russia.
XVI.
And yonr experience, if it’s much as mine is»
Will teach yeu certainly this mighty truth.
That quite as consecrate the rosy wine is
To grief and age as ’tis to love and youth.
In squalor’s hovel and at learning’s f brine ’tis
Beloved—for instance, Dnbbo and Maynooth ;
Wbat other things could mako this world as sunny
As wine, religion, saveloys, and money F
XVII.
In my young days I’ve been without, the latter.
Which means withut whatever it can buy ;
But seeing portly elders waxing fatter
On every band, I thought " Why surely I
As well as these can trot around a platter.
And have some • wholesome fun ’ before I die;
At one clean sweep my eoul’s salvation purchase.
And help along afew dissenting churches.
XVIII.
“ First I must find the lamb, then find a billet
With some sleek Wesleyan who runs a store.
Then, knowing well to use a Joseph Qillott,
Must strive to make my master’s little more
And also, if the Lord of Hosts should will it,
While helping waverers to the Golden Shore,
And this way managing my soul to ransom,
Must help my body on to something handsome.”
XIX,
When this thing smote me as an inspiration,
1 dropped my axe. nor struck another blow;
I had been ring-borking like blue damnation
On Jimbour station when the sun was low,
(As also was my labour’s compensation)
•• No more," I said; " I will arise and go
Among t he chosen, and fair broadcloth put on,
Aud say fare well to this infernal mutton."
xx.
That nigh! I sought the super and demanded
My cheque, and told him that my way was olear.
I had a "call,” end mean I ’, to join the banded
And sinles hosts who fight the devil here.
He straight d-dacted mv tin-tag, and handed
My cheque along, and said with worldly sneer.
“ I daresay you’ll smash this and got a skinlull
Before yeu quite abandon being sinful."
(To be Continued )
We wish to premise that thia is purely a sport-
ing par. I The Tumut Presbyterian sports came oil on
Anniversary Day with great “eclaw,” and tho day will
be long remembered by all present, but especially by
the baldheadcd old gentlemen who are said to have
“ cordially (I) patronised kiss-in-the ring.” The first
event on the card was a brief prayer by the Rev. J T.
Robertson, who went round the Scriptural course at a
great pace, hia walk-over being apparently very popular
with the spectators. The course was next cleared for
a game of rounders, which was very much appreciated
by those of the school teachers who had neat ankles.
Time having been called, the Bev. Mr Robertson led
an ecolesiastical daiice round the May-pole, which was
followed by the kiss-in-the-ring aforesaid. Boys’ races
nnd hide-and-seek uext ensued, the latter finding much
favour with tho bald-heads and some squatter friends
et the parson’s, who hid so successfully that no one
could ever tell where they were but the school-teacheis
and a young lady in the mantua-making line from Ade-
long. At two o’clock there was a Bruce auction, at
which the Rev. Mr. Robertson scooped in (he pool,
amounting to £6o—“ an old chestnut horse blind of an
eje for which £2 was bid, was given back and re-sold
until ho brought £9 " In the evening there was a con-
cert, after which the Rev. Mr. Robertson, who pre-
sided, “ announced that a most interesting portion of
the evening’s programme had yet to be carried out,
viz , the collection—(laughter) While the ladies were
singing the next piece, he trusted the audience would
be pondering in their minds how much they ought to
put into tho plate—(applause) ” The willow patterns
were then circulated, and at the conclusion of the
concert it was announced that the rev. gentleman had
netted £lll on the meeting, which closed with the
usual—Benediction.
The Baptists of Sydney are to keep the first day
in Jane for fasting and prayer for the sins of Presby.
terians and Congregationalists It is expected they
will devote a whole j ear to the Anglicans and B.G.’s.
“ Is the egg a failure, father, if not hatched in
one month ?’* “As an article of diet certainly, my son s
hut as an electioneering testimonial, no.”
Holietown.
You see, deep in that valley fair,
A little township nestling there,
And when the creeli doe. rippling how
The wattle sheds its golden glow ;
And all upon the sylvan scene
Ii soft and silent, and serene.
You see all this ? Well then, dear son,
We’ll take some sherry, and on.
It looks, that spot, too good for men—
A fairies’ glade—a pixie s glen,—
And it is meet the people should
All look so happy and so good I
And there the school—the scholars trim
Are clustered round the master prim ;
Ah, mark now with me (if you can)
The good look of that good young man I
The schoolmistress—smart, neat of th:n fa —
A soft hymn at her needle sings.
And tales tells children now and then,
Of Joseph and his brethren.
The parson in the vicarage
Beads from the Scripture's holy page
Unto his Bible-class who look,
With solemn rev’renoe on the book.
Prom out the rustic church does float
Upon the air, the organ's note.
And, oh, this is a pleasant thing [
The choir within an anthem sing.
Gaze. round where'er your steps are tent
All that you see is innocent 1
No wonder then, you'll quickly own,
They call this village—Holietowa.
You've owned it, eh P—well, just a drain,
And we’ll continue on the strain.
What you’ve eean is but a painted slide
Of which you’ve viewed the sunny side !
But turn it round and you will see—
A den of hideous infamy!
chat clergyman, then, know, at once.
Is but a sordid, grasping dunce,
A man without a tear or sigh,
Whose daily life’s a living lie—
A thing that was obscurely born,
To be the object of men’s scorn.
That pedagogue that you did heed
Will shrink at no black-hearted deed !
His only care, his only joy.
Is to pollute and to destroy I
Each thing more hideous his delight—
He walks the earth a human blight 1
That schooldame—oh, there is no name
Man’s lipo form for that thing of shame I
Those anthem-chanters you did view
Are but a lewd ungodly crew 1
Those children that seemed so sublime.
Though young in years are old in crime I
Gomorrah pales that place before
So rotten is it to the core !
But there, the truth’s bean sung (or said)
ho, one more sherry—and to bed.


CITY CATERING COMPANY
815 GEORGE STREET.
A NEW CATERING! COMPANY,
Comprised of professional workmen of long- and prao
ideal experience, nearly all from the ORIGINAL FIRM
of Compagnoni and Co., who personally superintend
and carry oh the working of the business under one
general manager.
It is not a public company, and therefore free from all
the expensed appertaining thereto.
N.B.—Since opening, on 27th April, 1881, we have
sticoessfelly catered THE LARGEST, MOST DIF FI-
CULT, and MOST RESPONSIBLE tinder takings that
have taken plkoo here to the present time, vis.
The Consular Dinner, in our new banquet room.
His Worship the Mayor’s Picnic, for 450, at Clontarf,
and Banquets, and all Entertainments.
Hie Worship the Mayor’s Ball, for 1600, Exhibition
Building, at which his Worship, John Harris, enter-
tained their R.H.'s PRINCE ALBERT and GEORGE,
Earl Clanwilliom, and the Officers of the Detach ud
Squadron.
Masonic Ball, English Constitution, for 1252, Exhibi-
tion Building.
Masonic Bail, N.S.W. Constitution, at Town Hall,
Sydney •
Visit of their R.H.’s PRINCE ALBERT and GEORGE
to Lithgow Valley M.uos and Zigzag. Dinner d la
Basse, for 60, in Government Palaoe Dining Car while
travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000 school children— re
Queen’s Statue Demonstration—under VERY SHORT
NOTICE, only receiving the order at 2 30 p.m., to bo
ready on the spot at 12.30 p.m. the following day.
Visit of THEIR R.H.'s PRINCE ALBERT and
GEORGE to Captain Cook's Landing, south side of
Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon and|refroshment, for
100, under VERY SHORT NOTICE, receiving order
at 9.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot at 1 p.m. follow-
ing day.
The Lady Mayoress* reception, Town HalL
The (Union Club) “ Bachelor’s Ball," at Exhibition
Building, for 500.
The Barristers' Dinner to Judge Windeyer, in our new
Banquet Boom.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge Innia, _in our new
Banqnet Room.
Dinner d la Basse at St. Paul's College, for 160 Members
of the Church of England Synod.
Dinner d la Buss* to the Intercolonial Rifle Teams.
Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshment for 500 ladies and
fentlemen, at the turning of the first sod of " Hudson
Iros.' New Railway Rolling Stock Works," at Gran-
ville.
The Luncheons and Refreshment Ban at Hawkesbury
Races, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheons and Resreshmnnt Ban at Bandwiok
Races, in Grand Stand.
Refreshments at e Fayro of ye Olden Tyme. St.
Mary's Cathedral.
Refreshments at Ye Olde Euglyshe Fayre, Garden
Palaoe.
Together w th a numerous lot of Private Picnics. Bills,
Dinners, 1 easts, Ac., Ac.
The CITY CATERING COMPANY let out on hire
Cutlery, Silver Goods, Crockery, Glassware, Ornaments,
and all requisites for Balls, Picnics, Dinners, Ac. A
and will be glad to send out the smallest order for
jl astry, Cakes, Jellies, Ices, Confectionary, Ac.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hand when
services required.
We have in our possession letters from gentlemen in
high standing in the city, complimenting ns on the
manner we have performed the duties entrusted to ns,
CHAS. R. SMITH
(Late et the firm of the original Compagnoni and Co.),
Majuqib.
MALT BITTERS J
The great Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness,
Complaint, Weakness, Ac.
PRICE 2s. Od.
A. O. KEBBLEWHITE, Chmiibt, Ao„
43 Erskine Street;
AND
W, H. SOUL, Pitt Street,
KOUMISS! SSk a S&* KOUMISS!
CURBS
Indigestion
Heartburn
Debility
eta. etc.
to
CUBES
Diabetes
Bright’s
Disease
onsnmption
o. etc.
Registered Trade Mark.
KOUMISS is not a quack remedy, but is prescribed
and used by all the leading Physicians, and Will
POSITIVELY CURB the above oomplaipts. We
cordially invite the public to call at our office, 101
Fhillip-street, and Judge for themselves of the EXTRA-
ORDINARY TESTIMONIALS already to hand from
well-known citizens. Reference is permitted to all the
leading Physicians, also to the following) The Lady
Snperintendent Children’s Hospital; Rev. Q. Maoar-
thur, King’s School, Parramatta; Aldermanß. Butcher
Mayor of Woollahra; T. Hales, Esq, Manager 8. O,
Co.; Danoan M’lay, Esq., Whittingham; Augustus
Morris, Eiq ; Rev. J. J. Carroll, St. Augustine's, Bal-
main ; Rev. Z Barry, St. Matthias', Woollahra; Capt.
Rountree, Balmain, and many others.
THE CRITERION,”
15 ROYAL ARCADE. 16
First-class luncheon and refresh
MENT ROOMS for LADIES and OENILEMEN
The comfort of Ladies has been especially attended to.
An ELEGANTLY-FURNISHED APARTMENT has
been set aside fur their sole use. It will he supplied
with writing materials, daily pppers, journals, Aq. Ac.
Gentlemen in town can obtain, AT ALL HOURS,
COLD LUNCHEONS— Ham, Beef, Tonouk, Sardines,
Salads, Hard-boiled Boas, Ao. Ac.
CUP of TEA or COFFEE, with LIGHT REFRESH-
MENT, 6d.: equal in every respect to the celebrated
"CRITERION ** BUFFET, LONDON.
CELEBRATED AMERICAN ICED DRINKS. *
GEORGE WILLIAM SELFE,
Proprietor-
STABLISHED 1837.
ra O W L E EN3 P O T T B B T
AND
BRICK WORKS,
CAMPKEDOWN. NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application,
J LAWLER, 608, Qoorge-streot, Bedding Manniao*
• turer, importer of Brass and Iron Bedsteads,
American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair, Kapok,
and Cotton Flock. Established 1860.
Eelio of Barns —Blisters.
The proper way to warm the house is to keep
the cellar coaled.
“lam going to the police ‘ court, ’ said police-
man X, as he wont round u> flirt with the oiok.
“Don’t milk while the cow is eating,’’ says a
oountry paper. That’s not the danger. Don’t milk
while the cow is drinking," is our adiiou.
Nowhere perhaps has the dentist’s art obtained such
high excellence as in Sydney. C rtaiuly wa are in no
sense behind any other city. Visitors to Sydney might,
to test this, visit the establishment of Messrs. Adolphe
Gibrial and Company, 18, Wynwari Square, two doors
from Pfahlert’s Hotel. Here the manutaoture of every
essential in t.e proiession is carried on. At the rear of
the sa gory is a compact little factory where all the
requisites for supplying every dental defect in the
human mouth are made. Messrs, ii&briel and Co.
(whose only address is as above) are always pleased to
show their specimens of artificial teeth to those
interested. There being two Arms of the same name in
the Square, patients will oblige by paying particular
attention to the Christian name, Adolphe, and the num-
ber, 18, 2 doors from Ptabloft's Hotel.— Ann.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Ja politics “ technical education?” Ask Angus
Camoron.
The Evening Lyre condemns the Ministry for
doing nothing, They are in office a month !
Is Mr. Farnell aware that the heads of some of
bis departments are touting incompetent: kOjS over
tried men ?
Mirams, the big little Victorian politician
has been on a visit to Sidney. Ha was received at the
railway station by the N.S.W. Political Eetorm Asso-
c ation ana nad a drink witn him,
David Buchanan hasn’t lived in vain He is
going to lend the norm ry *' < 500: in gold,*' when the
inscribed stock issue comes off If hvd only lend the
country the bjnellc of his eiienoe he'd do much more
good.
The Gympie Miner says of Ihe Griffith party :
•< They have a cry, out no podey " How, in this colony
tbe Paries party have a policy, but no cry. Their
policy is corruption. The cry has been knocked out of
mem!
Sir George Allen seems to have forgotten that,
in reply to a question, he stated on the hustings
that, in the event of being rejected for the Speakership,
he would retire from the A isembly. It was, nowever,
a hustings promise.
The Nepean Times, to whose district we are
indebted tor th) brilliant Smiths, Ms P., predicted an
ovoiwuelming defeat for Copeland in East Svduey. Its
other great prediction was tnac the Nepeah Times
would ue a success 1
M'Elhone made a decided point when speaking
on the adjonrnm nt of tbe douse over tha Armidale
railway opening dn said he supported the motion “in
order that members see some of th- finest agri-
cultural land iu the col my—the whole of which had
passed out o f the aands of the people mt > the maws of
monopolists."
Mr. Fletcher, M P. for Newcastle, is a man of a
modest mind. Winning to put his country to the least
expense possible on the occasion of the opening of the
Armidale railway, he only aske 1 for 100 passes. Snob a
true patriot as this deserves to be encouraged 1 It is a
pity ha can't represent two constituencies—or, at any
late, one constituency and a lime-kiln.
The Minister for Works, Mr. Copeland, is
smothering his one-lnoged critics. Sydney and New.
cattle, ho says, will bs connected by railway with the
least possible delay, the contract to be let in several
sections. Copeland's idea is to make the connection
by rail between Brisbane, Sydney, and Melbourne an
accomplished fact, frir Henry Parkes and his party
blossomed into public favour with this programme
years ago. They ran to seed on it —and are now dead.
It is a curious fact, that at the Natal banquet,
M. Conil, in describing his company, made no reference
to poor Napoleon the third, who made it what it was.
It would be instructive to read tbe speech of an agent on
a similar occasion when the Company was the Com-
panie des Massasreries Imperiales. M. C. knows that
tha republic won't last, out he evidently thinks the
split between Jerome and Victor has put the set on ths
taird Empire. If not—and a few months will probably
show —M. Conil will •* wish he hadn’t spoken."
With an ardent desire to get at the Ministry,
the Noose combines a lovely incapacity. When tne
editsr is not an ass, ha is a Balaam. Htre’s his latest
cursing. “ The principal item in the way of achieve-
ment is the stoppage of auction sales, and in that
instance the act speaks more for their disinterestedness
than for their discretion. If they had desired to
embarrass themselves at the very outset they could
scarcely have taken a more effective way of do ng it."
Fanoy throwing a man’s disinterestedness at his uead
by way of discre Siting him 1
The Fenian “ Skirmishing Fund” of which
O’Bonovan K jesi was one of tho original trustees, nae
been misappropriated. Bat, curiously enough, it appears
that so long as OBonovan Rosea—who has beta abused
as a sort of desperado,—drunkard—swindler—in English
papers —was iu c barge of thi fund, it was honourably
accounted for. liissa and another relinquished tne
trust and handed over tho fund to other trvutees, and
ultimately.two, Messrs. Bavoy and Bresliu got, sole
control of it. Bevoy gave £2OOO to James O Kelly,
M P., spent £lOOO himself, and lent £3O 0 to another
" patriot." Altogether ho dissipated £lO,OOO out of
£20,000 subscribed for the pleasing purpose ot dynamit-
ting British men-of-war, docks, judges and so forth.
They thought he knew nothing—did the Con-
servatives of victoria. But 6ir Bryan O'Loghloa has
not forgotten his lessons in Jesuitry; and then his
colleagues—Bolton, et hoc genus omne —are they not of
the order ot the R.C ? The wilv Baronet has trumped
his quondam supporters, tho Aaoos included. Tms
poor old woman is quite ups«t, and Gowen Evans has
had an attack of tioaoloreux. The Melbourne Club is
exasperatmgly disconcerted at the '* cheek " of their
protege. But he doesn’t care, and is as jolly and
rotund as ever. Ha feels, so it is said, as if he had been
called by a Bivine Providence to snuffle off his Con-
servative trammels and form a. party ot his own—jnst
no burst up the secular Education Act. However, he
will And his error out when he returns from visit mg
ths country. The change wiil mate him a sauder
much and a wiser little—naan. And James
M’Pnerson Grant—the crawling hanger-on to aey party
for a pjittolio will be relegaied to ihat posmon for
which Nature intended him.
Tha formidable and growing power of the
Mohammedan Messiah in the Soudan tmreaieus to
create a hoavy embarrassment lor England now that
she has taken upon her the responsibility of manag ng
tho affairs of Egyyt. Apparently anticipating tins
trouble, a Loudon paper observes that: “The orlthh
Government may have to defend Egypt from tho frouth;
it has undertaken to occupy it, and to pay tue dividends
to the bondholders. It has also to indemnify the
sufferqrs by the bombardment ot Alexandria. its Jii-
biiities are mu ih greater tban they were. It will not tf
its own accord exempt Egypt irom ttua i burdens, and
pat them upon tha people ot England. It e
only a portion of them on the people of India. Unless
it can restore the financial prosperity in Egypt which it
has been destroying, me British Guvcru- out must ex-
cite there that Hatred which has hitbeiti been diroottd
to other quarters. If ever it snouid determined .0 meet
its diffliultiea boldly, and to Co justice to Egypt at
tho expense of the bondholders auu ot tue bouihoideis’
accomplices, the Pariiamsat and people of England, it
will recall Arab! as the one mu oempouut to Carry
out the work, 'ihe stone which tha builders icj acted
Will become the h. al of the corner."
The BuuLETiN.aa observed elsewhere is the only
paper iu Australia which stood up for the cause of
Aiabi, “the rebel." Ihe whole Eugl.si Press is
now coming round to Arubi’s side. A Loudon news-
paper remaras :—" We teaiiy have no patience with
people who seem to think chat it ii our duty to maintain
tha wretched creature Tewlis as tho ruler ot a country
sue natives ot wlucn, almost to a man, loatne and
despise him. At present th ) position is this : —Our
army and our diplomatist > are devising means to keep
Tewfik on the turono. Hi has on his side an intiu-
itessimal following of Tinman and Circassian scamps
and Levantine adventurers, who would not oxist for live
minutes after tho last English soldier quitted Cairo. As
though this ‘ policy ’ wore not suffleuntly objeotiouab.e
we graft upon it au endeavour to force the Egyptians
to pay Intmest on a debt wniuh has been rolled up by
every species of questionable tiiaucieg, and the total of
whien is about three times the amount that was leaily
lent. To hoodwink theEagiisn public, * Correspou-
dents ' sand us homo letters iu wnioh the interests of
tne bondholders, and ot ths crew of Eaiopean scamps
who have been the cjirso of Egypt, are detended wnh
cynical impudence and impudent mendacity."
"With respect to Egyptian affairs, Vanity Fair
remarks:— •Wo and our allies have tnuuipued. To
what extent? The one Egyptian whs nas shown ex-
oeptionai capacity lor government ; who has been put
forward by his fellow-offloers in the Army as the ex-
pounder of their grievances; who has been accepted as
a leader by all those of his countrymen who aie aoi
sunk in a slavish submission to an authority which,
supported by foreigners, collects taxes many months iu
advance by mean* of torture ; who nas been lound
capable of holding satisfactory offi.ial relations witn
every European wno gave him tne opportunity ; and
under wnose government, in time of war, order was
kept SO well tuat even new we ace told that nearly tne
whole dividend on tho debt for tho half-year will be
paid, is only to bo exiled from Egypt, he is not to be
muraered. Wo attach no belief to me encouragement
given by the Times when it says that A-abi's views will
be carried out." Just conceive the 1 imes pronouncing
that Arabi’a views should bo carried out I St ortly
after the capture of Arabl, that journal thus wrote
“The punishment (or such a crime (rebellion) is
death, and without vindictiveness it may be said
ihit never was that punishment more richly ea>ned
than by Arabi Pasha and his principal leaders." Yet,
directly after the hnrned abandonment of the trial,
the Times veered right round and pronounced that
*• England cannot delay the reforms which he and his
struggled for j" and, in reference to Arabl’s letter from
which we have in previous issues given quotations, the
same journal renarks : “It must certainly b» admitted
that this last communication of ‘Arabl the Egyptian'
has much in it that is digniflai and impressive This
is a remarkable admission surely. It cone odes every
point which The Bulletin alone among Australian
journals, from the outset contended for, viz , that Great
Britain would have been more worthy of her principles
had she supported the National movement of which
Arabi was the head, than in forcibly and wrongfully
engaging to crush these aspirations by force, in the
interests of a parcel of bond-koiding usurers.
• • *
If ever a thing could be predicted with cer-
tainty, it is (writes the St. Petorsourg correspondent of
the S M. Herald) that but little time will elapse
before a serious war breaks our between Bnssia and
Germany, a pretext for which will not be wanting
The young daughter of a Scotch Earl is a radical
republican, and at a banquet lately given to Lord Salis-
bury, in Edinburgh, refused to rise when God Save the
Q ueen was played.
THE NEWSLETTER.
Peter in Prison.—Frank Warden in quod.
About 1600 immigrants ufljat, for Sydney.
Menmuir arrived at Cooktown, with small pox,
consigned to Sydney.
The straight line —The fees at all the public
schools in N.S.W. abolished.
Sir Henry Parkes has definitely fixed the 13th
or 14th February for visiting 1 enter Held. Handsome
valentine, that I
Kivanagh, the Dublin carman, who drove the
wou.d-bo assassins of Field, has been identified also as
the driver of the Cavendish and Burke murderers.
The Blue Ribbon Temperance movement, a sort
of clipped wing of the Salvation Army, has been fairly
started in this city. Hundrjdiof converts nave already
been made —among the temperance people 1
A plucky hit of work was done by two German
sailors, of the Brai-ilinn. A saiung boat, contain* a party
of seven, capuzed. Two persons, unable to swim wore
left to drown. The Harman* gailanCy rescued them.
Will the German Consol make note of this P
The Rum, describing a picnic, the other day,
said: “There was any amount of drinking going on at
the hotel, but there was nothing particularly repulsive
about this part of the attractions when our reporter
left." We shou d think not. Mo left nothing to
drink.
Thady O’Kane, of the Northern Miner, has
anotner writ for Hue! —this time from a Mr Thomas
Bnckland re certain references to the Day Dawn gold
robbery. Thady is back dup by all the miners on
Charters Towers, who are just the man to show fight,
ao the writs cause Tnady but am ill concern.
Burns, before being executed at Adelaide ate
two eggs and drank three pannikins of coffee. Ho after,
wards smoked a pipe, and appeared to enjoy both meal
and smoke very maun. Then be said to the clergyman
‘•When you walk over poor B irus’s grave you can say
Poor Barns len t cead; he's gone.’" Shortly after-
wards he went.
Thirty-seven new gold-mines have lately been
discovered ii EasUn Siberia. This will necessitate
the discovery of a few more Nihilist plots, and aeon-
sequent consignment into exile of hands enough to
give thete minus a st-dft. Gold can’t be allowed to go
to waste in the ground while there are disloyal subjects
to be found to dig it out.
A prospecting expedition to Tasmania is now
being organised in Melbourne. It proposes to proepeot
a lateral area of about 100 miles by three or four mike,
over a practically unknown district. Numbers of olu
miners believe tne West Coast of this island is very
rich in minerals, but it has not bean thoroughly pros-
pected as yet.
Rice, the mind-reader, can earn .£lOOO in Lon-
don if he likes. The editor of Truth has offered that
amonnt to anyone who will read certain numbers which
he may place inside an envelope. The editor rather
strangely appoints the Bishop of Sa 1 ford (Archbishop
Vaughan’s brother) stakeholder. We venture to pre-
dict that the editor would lose his money in the contest.
Mind reading is no delusion—any more than mesmerism
is.
There are some smart people up at Bourke. A
man died there lately. Before the corpse was removed,
the house was inspected in view of future occupancy.
As the cofH i was coming out of the front door the cace
contain ng the furniture of the incoming tenant drove
up. This far seeing individual probably imagined that
by this promp itude ha might seeure something which
in tho agony of their grief the incinds of the deceased
might leave behind. Ha did secure it. It was the dis-
ease the man dud of. An undertaker is now opening a
new warehouse next door.
Inspector-General Fosbery proposes to import
fifteen or twenty London constables to show the
colonials how to "run 'em in." Here’s how tne police
do the thing in London: ‘ The police arrangements
at the conclusion of the ceremony cf the opening of the
new Law Courts were simply disgraceful. The guests
wUo had been present, and who were viaitiag rcr their
carriages, were burrouuded by a lighting funoas nioo of
the lowest roughs who broke all barriers directly the
mounted troops had gone off; ladies, fainting and cry-
iog, were exposed to the jeers and insults of brutal
savages, and the fores of constables was wholly ineffi-
cient to o-jpe with blatant rnffunium.”
We have just room this week for brief mention
of more depredations by “the well connected." A
young gentleman has been arrested at a Southern Post
Office, charged with MCHntookiag a letter. Up in tne
Matleay district, a “well connected" is £6oo short.
On the Siuth Coast, below Wollongong, n "well con-
nected" Pottil official thief is said to have actually got
off He was soma 8800 behind. The most astonishing
fact is that his offence was condoned by his superiors.
Toea there’s another well oonnouted official in she same
district, whose defalcations recently were well known,
yet were condmed by his department. We’ll sea what
we can do next week-with the names of these "well
connected " customers.
The latest outeness of a cute Sydney firm is the
sending of a printed circular to customers, just after an
ordinary monthly account has been rendered. The
circular reads tans:—“Dear sir,—We very sincerely
regret, and trust you will accept our apology for tho
blunt and uncalled-for demand for payment of jour
account which was posted to yon last night. Wo osn
only state in explanation that a new clerk, whom we
had in our office yisterday, is entirely responsible for
tho blander. He bus now left the office, and we trust
you will overlook the mistake which has been made,
and which was unknown to the firm until this morning.
Tnanfeing you lor past patronage, and soliciting a con-
tinuation of the tamo, we are, &i." I’his sort of
insincerity is of tho Jonas Chuzzlewit kind of cunning
that overreaches itself. A*• printed ** circular of such
a nature boars suoh palpable inherent evidence, &j. & J.
Home business people are very green.
Where is your Columbus now ? A Chinese coin
3000 yeais old has been dug up In Cassiar, British
Columbia. 60-the West was known to the List all
these ages ago. It may strike the unretleo.iog reader
as strange that tne knowledge did not filtrate thiougu
to Europe till so late. Pshaw 1 The existence of a
continent in the Western sea was known to the Greeks.
As a s-iapioion, certt inly—and even for a thousand
yeirs after as little more than a dream, till Columbus
made it a reality, but known for ail that. Vf« have a
theory wily so little communication took place between
China and America, seeing the former country knew of
the existence of ttio latter, it is this. Buon fJhmcso
as landed ia America very seldom returned. The wise
Indi ms levied a poll tax npon them, even as we have te>
do now. But their tax was more effective in preventing
immigration. They took the polls.
A race race took place at the Dnbbo sports, the
other day, tor a sack ot potatoes. Each competitor
I al to carry the sack—lsolb. weight—round the ting bo
many times. The man who held out longest won. We
are grived to find that tbe winner was not a pressman.
It would have been so if an Evenings News man had
been there. We remember one Christmas eve when a
produce reporter for the j inrnal in question was com.
ing home from the markou with a gito side of taoon on
his shoulder. Suddenly he heard footsteps behind him,
and, without turning round to see who it was, he took
to his heels and ran. But as fast as he ran tbe oth r
fallowed. Mad with terror and panting with fatigue he
at last stopped—out at Dawes Point on the limits of
the land. Then he turned round, and saw his par s ler.
** Thank God, * hi gasped, “you are only a policeman,
I thought you wore a reporter lot the Daily 'lel*.
geaph *'
Down in Gundagai there is more fun at burials
than at town-council meetings. The other day, when a
man was buried there, “ the undertaker was m such a
beastly state of intoxication that he fell oil the hearse,
and the wheels passed over his body." This was cot
enough for him. He “ fell into the grave " when the
coffin was being lowered down. And previous to this,
when the funeral procession came up to the gates ot the
cemetery, it was found that the caretaker was away,
and had taken the keys with him. Probably, he also
was on a “drunk." When they finally got in, it was
found that the grave was not dug wide enough. The
mourners had, therefore, to take off their coats and
finish the txcavation. And just to wind things up
cheerfully, one of the bystanders took up a large clod,
and cracked the coffin-lid with it. After such proceed-
ings, we think any spirited corpse would eitner have
got up and buried itself or gone and got drunk with the
test
There is a row in the Post Office. On the hust-
ings, Mr. Wright said ho was in favour of the oigh' hours
system, yet the P.O people affirm that a lot ot them
work ten hours per diem, and don't get a holiday even
on Cdiis'mxs Day ami Friday. They also aw
the reason papers are not dispatched with promptitude
is because tbe sorting department is so sbori handed.
Thera are, th «y say—and this is carious if true— lewer
sorters now than there were six years ago I Perhaps, how-
ever, many of these have been t-isoharged to make way
for the *• wall connected ” young gentlemen who have
ot late been giving us such peculiar tastes of tbeir
quality. Anyhow, lha Post Office people want a lot of
tnings, and ure growling generally. Being very busy,
we haven't time to sympathise with anybody very
much, but we think there should be quite as miny—or,
siy nearly as many—sorters now as there were six
years ago 1 We think so. With regard to the men
working ton hoars, we consider that no one ought to
work as long as that except a parson or a barbsr. Very
likely Mr. Wright will fix all this up. We don’t urse
him to, because we have contented minds If a letter
potted from Woolloomooloo oa Friday reaches us on
Tuesday morning, and a telegram sent from Balmaiu
at 11 am. on Thurslay comes to hand on Saturday
afternoon, we are quite content We have gnashed our
teeth till we have none left, and are bald from dashing
our head against the wall in impotent fury.
FACTS AND FANCY FOCUSSED.
Up in N.Q., near Townsville, a Mr. Riley was
illustrating to bis farm banes by means of a dead snake
how the poison was inj acted. He happened afterwards
to tickle his ear with the blade of a pei knife he had
used during the experiment. It was nearly his last
tickle, ugly symptoms of snake-poisoning developing.
Dr. Stamen, of Sydney, telegrapnel instructions for a
cure The Criminal Law uonso.idation Bill passed
by the Legislative Counoil gives Justices power to order
whipping in respect of certain specilledoffences by boys’
and youths dealt with siammariiy Some Sydney
harbour and ferry boat*, Boomed by our sapient Marine
Board to carry 400 or sto passengers, are each manned
by two men and a b0y.......A new ohum was to have
been married to a servant the other day, but as the
parson heard a rumour that the ** spons ” would not
be forthcoming, he never turned up. The bridegroom
was in a rage;—the bride in tears and white muslin.
Suddenly a happy thought struck the groom. “Blow
the curate, Meria,” said he—“ let’s go to the black-
smith." Then she broke from him foaming with fury.
She was not well up in English literature, poor thing 1
Left to himself the disconsolate groom raised Is. 6i on
the ring, and disguised himself in liquor The
THNTBnriEi.D c tar, organ of Parkes and Wearhat, is
to have opposition. The people ought to try a little
Bum with me editor; nothing survives it A diamond
drill has been sent to Oonnelab, for the purpose of
water-supply The half-year’s profits of th« Queens-
land National Bank were near upon 60,000 Tne Wild
Klver Timss, reports daring aggressiveness of the
Myalls. Nearly a dozen horses have been speared and
carried <-ff 10,000 acres of land were applied tor at
Cairns (Q ), on the 10th Herberton Miners’ Associa-
tion has a good casn balance “to resist all efforts to
reduoe wages," &e At tbe time of the gold robbery
on the Tararua, every man from the C iptam to the
lamplighter was discharged. Now they’ve found the
gold, and the onlprit—but he’s dead.
• • •
Harwood, the English executioner, is escorted
in Ireland by nine detetives It is m keeping with tbe
wholeoharauter of the Egy ptiau war t hat the promotions
which have recently been made indicate ‘’deplorable
and scandalous favouritism"... t£ M 8 Buperb, sustained
serious damage to her hull at the bombardment of
A’exandtia and lost her false keel; repairs will cost
*30.000 Au Irish farmer name I Kirwan, who got an
abatement of his “ rint” ot £25, was euohrtd by his
labourer who tusd him to court and got a reduction on
the rent of ■* a house'’ ot from 4d. per week to 3t. Tbe
labourer did not want to pay “ nut," boeruso no one
was paying “rint j" bis last effort was to get t he house
at the high rental of 21. per week. The premises were
nob commodious. He could stand at the lire and jump
into bed, and he’d pay 41. willingly if they could get a
donkey to turn round in the front room
Colonel Burnaby, the gentleman who took pills to
Khiva, stands for Birmingham in ihe Conservative
interest The Art world of Kamo is in arms at ihe
threatened destruction of Am Coeli, tbe convent which
inspired Gibbon’s “ Ktse and Fall." T r o historic struc-
ture was to make way for a statue to Victor Emmanuel,
as if that great benefactor didn’t leave enough
10 posterity in the living presence of ninety
bastard children The great London lire,
estimated damage ever so many millions, is
represented by £750,000, half covered by insurance
Wnen the last mm lefty 10.000 of the Egyptian forces
were being constantly drilled, preparatory to their dis-
patch to tight tne isoudan Prophet. They have pro-
bably by tnis time been dispatched—by the Prophet
The last duel fought by British iffloers came oil on Mav
20, 1812, when a Marine efiicer kil.ed a brother subal-
tern. Only about twenty years earlier George 111. had
au offloor cashiered for refusing on consoieutious
grounds to tight a duel when challenged During 188 J
ths P. and O. Navigation Company earned £4,102, 030,
made up of treight, £1 025,435, passage money, £723.827,
mail subsidies £lO2 3 >6, anu intercut, £12,033. The ex-
penditure was £1,351330, leaving a profit balance tf
£848.590, which was dis. ostd of as follows £250,000
to repius and r-mowals account, £387.000 to reserve
fund, and dividend, £151.0t0.


Hotels, *o.
t O OONNOISEURS OF WHISKEY AND
• BRANDY.—W. and A Gilley’s CASTLE BRAND
<VHIBKEY and L’OR EXTRAIT BRANDY are the
Jkiest and purest spirits imported.
TUCKER k CO , Agents.
377 George-street.
It
OBERT BUTCHER A CO.,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY,
Cototbi Orders Receive Prompt Attentiok.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
308 GEORGE STREET.
WHOLESALE GROCER
and
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT.
SOLE AGENTS
for
BROOMFIELDS CELEBRATED OLD
SCOTCH WHISKY.
IMPERIAL SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN MAQEN BITTERS.
GENERAL IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTANS COFFEE.
SCOTCH WHISKY.
THE PREMIER WHISKY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S,
'OLD MATURED.'
Quality unsurpassed.
DALY BROTHERS,
Solo Agents for N.S W. and Queensland,
importers of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
General Merchandise.
809 GEORGE STREET.
GENUINE IRISH WHISKY.
WM. JAMESON * CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKY IS
UNSURPASSED.
IT is bottled in bond for Export at the Distillery
Dublin, and consumers may, therefore, roly tha
it has not been in the hands of “ Whisky Doctors.'
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for th
trade mark J in diamond on label, cork, and capsule.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.B.W. and Queensland.
FOSTER'S Bugle Brand.
Business Announcements.
m
<
ill
m
EP X.
o
i
&
m
P 7
>
wSSfe® s2 *
Of
Mi
341 G€
339
r -^^SYDIIEY^^'
ofpositg post office.
s<)s 060P6S street
Tobacconists
Co
“ Yankee Doodle” & “ Conqueror” Tobaccos”
The above Brands are bo well established in the minds
and tastes of all smokers for their parity and excellence,
that it merely remains for us to eantion all against im-
itations which we regret are numerous.
DIX3ON Sc SONS’ Registered Chief Brands are —
Dark Twists: Yankee Doodle, Twists, 10‘b &20’s; Con-
quer-r, Twists, 20‘s : Sir Kogtr, Thick Twists, 10’s;
Challenge, Twists, 10’s and 20‘s. Dark Plug Tobaccos :
The original and only genuine Tin Tag. Yankee Doodle :
Plugs (stamped with a single round Tin Tag). Con-
queror Plugs (stanped with a single round Tin Tag).
Bright Tobaccos: Gom of the South; Sir Roger, &c.,
Ac. Cut Tobaccos: (in i-lb tins and packets—fail
weighls and wiihpuro tin toil) Rough Cut Ruby; Onen.
tal Mixture ; Negrohead; Gold and Cigarette Leaf, &0.,
&0., Ac.
N.B.—We import regular shipments of Briar, Cherry,
Mcersham, Clay, and all other Pipes; Cigars, Cigar-
ettes, and all Tobacconists Goods.
DIXSON & SON?,
155 YORK STREET SYDNEY.
"GOV
C. COWLES,
GUNMAKEE AND IMPORTER.
Sole Agenkfor
W. and C. SCOTT and SON’S*
CELEBRATED GUMS.
For price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
FIREARMS in Australia,
AMMUNITION, Sporting Knives, &o.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
W. H. ARIEL!. & CO.’S AGE IJ GIBS.
SWALLOW Sc ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, Canterbury,
Normanby, and Christmas Family Cokes, Plum
Paddings. Minoemca* - , Self-raising iEratcd Flour,
Infant's Food, Treacle and Golden Syrup.
EXCELSIOR MILLS. —Superior Victorian Oatmeal
and Pearl Barley.
DILLON & BURROWS’ prize assorted Confectionery.
J. KITCHEr\ & SONS, No. 1 Mottled and Toilet
Soaps.
J. P. M'KENZIE & CO.’S CcfEoe, Mustard. Cocoa.
Tea, in Alb. ana 11b. pact etr ; dressed Rice, and
Patent Groats.
HUNT * CO.'S Prize Baking Powders, Adelaide
Jams, Pa;er Bugs, &c.
313 and 315 KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
DOMESTIC
SEWING MACHINE
J.WJOHNSTONxCG
THE.WORLD. * GEORGE ST,
SYDNEY.
7-4 6
HAYMARKET,
WIIGHT —Try WiLllilCS •’ MAGIC KY E-.
Jj WATER never use any other lotion. WIL-j
DER’S “All-healing Lotion” is a perfect wonder for
curing all bad sores on man or beast. Agents.—S.
Hotfnung & Co., Sydney, Felton, Grimwade, and Co.,
ana IfKmmans, Laws and Co., Melbourne, Elliot Bros.,
ai.d (Jo.. Brisbane, W. H. Soul, fydnev. |
Business Announcements
THOMAS MUNBO.
HERALDIC ARTIST AND ENGRAVER,
PLAIN AND FANCY STATIONER,
10 ROYAL ARCADE.
A splendid assortment of Valentines now on view.
Albums Purses, Inkstands, Writing Desks, Phot? and
Pioture Frames, &o.
Solo agent for August Huenerbein for Pianos, Organs,
and Music.
The Jiin£ raving and Artists’ Department being under
T. M’s. own management be feels confident at being
able to suit the public taste.
B WOLFF AND SON,
• Manufacturers of
Black Lead Pencils, Drawing Chalks, Crayons, Artists’
Materials, and Stationers’ Sundries.
Makers, by appointment, to HerMjiieSty's Government
and the Bank of ETOlafid.
Office and Warehouse: 55 Great QUe’n-street, Lin-
coln’s Inn Field's, W.C. Factory : Paledh Pencil Works,
Battersea, London, B.W. A full set Of samples can be
seen and further partisulars obtained on application to
E. B. WOLFF (Solo Agent for N. S. W.), care of
Messrs. Feldheim, Gotthel and Co., 30 Hunter .(.treat,
Sjdney.
GOOOH & CO
WILDERNESS WINES,
40, HUNTER STREET.
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY,
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols Ee-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. Sullivan’s
54-1 Georgo-street,
Brickfield-hill, between
Liverpool Bathurst Streets.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly executed
WIT - ATSON AND CRANE,
* * NICKEL and SILVER PLATERS.
Ship and Bath Fittings, Surgical and Dental
Instruments, Eire Irons, Bits and Spurs,
and metal surfaces, Nickel Plated in
Best Style. , .
}ld Electroplate ware of every description, re
silver-plated equal to new.
STEAM, BRASS. & ELECTR'-PLATING WORKS,
336 PUT biREET.
tOF'
gays
AND
rursr AFFFf.TinIMS
/'iMil
(f THOMAS: INOHAM;
Myles K. E. Ariel & Co., Agontf, Change Allay, Sydney.
ATLAS FOUNDRY & ENGINEERING
COMPANY,
HAY-STREET, SYDNEY,
EINQINEERS, Btilermakers, and Shipbuilders, Iron
i and Brass Pounders, Coppersmiths, and Mill-
wrights. The above firm are prepared to undertake
contracts for the manufacture of Marine and Stationary
Engines, Boilers, and Girder Work, Quartz-crushing,
Sawmill, Sheep-washing. Mining, Sugar-mills, and all
other descriptions of Machinery, with latest improve-
ments.
N.B. —Castings executed with despatch, and best
(rice given for metal.
FRESH FOOD
and
ICE COMPANY,
(Limited.)
21 HARBOUR STREET.
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
Present Delivery Exceeds
1000 GALLONS DAILY.
pUBLIC NOTICE.
T. B. SMITH, CHAPMAN, ft SMITH,
have much pleasure in announcing that they have oom-
menced business as
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS,
HOUSE, LAND, ESTATE, * GENERAL AGENTS,
and
will be ploaied to use their best efforts on behalf of
VENDORS and OTHERS
who entrust them with the disposal of
HOUSE and LANDED PROPERTIES,
General Merchandize, *3 , •
either by public auction or private contract, at the
RED HOUSE AUCTION ROOMS,
458 George-street,
opposite the Markets,
and trust by paying strict attention to all business to
merit tbo support of
BUSINESS MEN and SPECULATORS.
Bubdivisions of land sold on the ground every Satur-
day after icon.
G. B. MDDINI,
GUN-MAKKE AND ODILEE.
TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition! 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
\ MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
/tL barrelled Breech and Mizzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, <fcc. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 602 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to any
European workmanship.
N.B —Sole Arent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborne j also Angelo Bordonl,
of Brescia, Italy.
AGNIFICENT IRON-FRAMED GERMAN
PIANOS.
Walnut. Ehony-and-gold, Rosewood-and-gold.
Imported by us direct, and manufactured expressly
for this climate to the order of our buyer in Germany.
Every instrument is WARRANTED for TEN
YEARS. They are of very handsomo appearance, and
are most sensitive, sweet, and powerful.
LOW PRICES for CASH.
EASY TERMS of TIME PAYMENT.
Examine and test them before purchasing elsewhere.
All our PIANOS are latest styles only. Wo have no
seoond-hand instruments nor cheap r{Tobiah.i
BEALE and COMPANY,
1, Oxford-street; 612, Qeorge-street; 12, Market
Buildings, Sydney.
Hunter-street, Newcastle; High-street, Maitland;
Howiok-street, Bathurst; Auburn-street, Qoul-
burn; Church-street, Parramatta; .Queen-street,
Brisbane.
No matter where you live wo will eupplv you with a
PIANO upon TIME PAYMENT.
"H ISTORT REPEATS itself/
As Eve temptcthe First Man, so EVE
TEMPTS THE PRESENT MAN; but, luckily,
not the same Eve, but
JAMES EVE,
149 KING-STREET,
Opposite Theatre Royal Entrance,
With the best brands of AM Tobacco and Cigars.
JW. R. CLARKE.
• BOOKSELLER AND STATIONER.
5 and 6 MARKET BUILDINGS,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite Market-street.
B. BRAUN,
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, AND OPTICIAN,
376, George Street, Sydney,
Near the General Post Office.
WALTHAM WATCHES HUNTING or CRYSTAL-
FACED, 32 varieties. £3 3s, 43 10s, £3 15a, £4, £4
7a M, £4153, £5 10 r, £6 10i, £7 10, £8 10s. £9 10s,
£l2
ROTHERAM’S ENGLISH LEVERS £5. £5 10s, £6
10a. £7 Ids, £8 10s.
All these WATCHES are expressly manufactured
and examined for B. BRAUN to his order, and are
WARRANTED for 3 years.
Any Article sent free by Registered Post to any part
of the Colony, and may be changed if required.
Beal Pebble Spectacles, in Cases, 7s 6d.
346 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
STUBBS & SMITH,
(Late Joseph Bullard.)
TAILORS, MERCERS, AND GENERAL
OUTFITTERS.
A Large Assortment of
BE&DT-UADE MENS' AND BOYS’
CLOTHING,
ALWAYS ON HAND.
NOTE THE ADDRESS !
846 GEORGE STREET,
Near the Post Offioo.
I A N O c *. PIANO S’
PIANOS.
FREE TRADE and NO MONOPOLY.
Live and Let Live, these are Our Mottoes.
It is a well-known fact that the Foundations of Colos-
sal Fortunes have been established upon the Profits
arising from the SALE OP PIANOS in this
City during the past Twenty Years by those having
little or no knowledge of the Construction and Details
of the Pianoforte. While giving the Public the benefit
of our Mr Young’s 25 years’ personal practical experi-
ence (5 years in John Broadweod and Sons, London,
and 20 in N.S W.). we will, at the same time, be satis-
fied with a fair percentage on the Co operative Prin.
oiple, sharing the Profits with our Customers. We
will sell from 25 per cant. Jess than the same class of
Instrument can be Purchased at any Music Shop in
Sydney, and we will offer nothing for Sale we cannot
guarantee American Organs at proportionately low
prices. Also a Largo Stock of Kobn’s Celebrated Aus-
trian Furniture, a tingle article of which we are selling
at Wholesale Prices.
Come and See Our LITTLE BEAUTIES
in
Walnut and Full Iron Frame, at £25 cash,
Elsewhere £lO more,
or under a Liberal Tima Payment System.
GEORGE E. YOUNG and CO.,
285 PITT STREET,
South of Royal Arcada.
==*
m
USE
$o If
7>~W
WmMm
sn
fe
V-'Jt
ms
GUINNESS’S EXTEA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
BOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINBI
MERCHANTS.
VIRGO®, lON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
XHIBITI
3-3
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always ia STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BE ERS, and SPIRIT*,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS*
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Genova.
A. MELVIN and SONS'
Bdiutiirgh Pale Ala,


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
hnll be glad to have this index posted up hy secretaries
V ofVS and managers of sporting events vn general.]
eacinq.
February 8, 9.
B rrro wa Annual February 8. 9
B -aidwood Annual February 12,13
Biualorg Annual February 17, 18
Newcastle February 21, 22
¥ «.v
B irrangong Annua oiab,' Autumn March 89.
s»"ig (Vin® a a
Qandagaj March 17.
March 17-
Qandaroo Annual Karah 23, 23.
CaS«bury"(N-Z'Jockey Club, Aututan.".'. jy
H 7/iu^r l :r:~:::::iteAM:S^3i;
A- J C. Austen •••••••;•;• • March 28, 29,
Auckland (N.'z j Basing Club, Autumn AprU2l, 23.
Parramatta
PEDEhTRIANISM.
n tnarvv. Edwards (Melbourne)
Oijiwy Australian Cup Week.
AQUATICS.
Clifford v. Pearce T^SSVo
.'.'.March 10.
SulUvan Trophies. £lOO, £3O. £lO ••••
Intercolonial Eight-oor race Al.nl 28.
Krug Champagne Cup June
CRICK KT.
T itercolonial Match. Vic. v. N-S.W., at Sydney. Feb 9.
aaattalian Combined Team v. English Eleven...Feh 16.
Vnalish Eleven v. Victorian Eleven, at Melb....M.aroh2.
English Eleven v. N B.W. Eleven, at Sydney... March 9.
COURSING.
The New South Wales Coursing Club has issued
its programme for 1883. Four meetings will he held.
The season will be opened on the 2nd May, at the
Bridge Park Estate near Bowral, when the Derby,
Oaks, Bridge Park Gup, and Bowral Cup will be
run The remaining meetings will ha held at
Woodstock, Rooty Hill, on the following dates
21 h May and following days—St. Cogor, Birthday
Plate and New Plumpton Stakes 4 28th June and
follswing days—Puppy Stakes, Woodstock Plate,
and Metropolitan Stakes; 31. it July and following
days-New South Wales Challenge Cap, Hobart-
ville Stakes, and Consolation Stakes.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Tumub defeated Tumbarumba in the Mandelson
Cup cricket match.
“ Hon.” John Lucas is likely to be a represen-
tative in the International match.
The Australian horse Jack has defeated Palmer-
ston, the crick hurdle racer, in India.
O’Leary reckons that altogether he has walked
fully 46,000 miles in important matches.
Tom Hales will accompany Mr. W. A. Long to
England, as that gentleman's “ first mount."
Segenhoe will have to be blistered ; so there is
not much chance of his starting for the Bt. Leger.
There’s a nasty rumour abroad that a certain
cricketer is £250 better olf than before the late match.
On account of the heavy rains, the Association
Ground would not allow of any practice or match last
Saturday.
Mr. Upward has formally accepted the position
of stroke in the Victorian boat, in the forthcoming
eight-oar race.
The Viceroy’s Oup, which is run for in Calcutta
every New Year’s Day, was won by Sir Peter—the well-
known son of Panic.
It is rumoured that Bonnor intends to settle
permanently in N. S. Wales. Our stocks on the English
market ought now to go up.
The owner of Kingsdale has given the colt in
charge of Donnelly, at Kandwlok, who will train him
for his coming Baud wick engagements.
The revised rules of the A. J. 0. fix the lowest
weight to bs carried in future 6jt. 71b. on the flit, 9st.
over hurdles, and 9st. 71b. across country.
Notwithstanding the heavy rain on Sunday, the
Association Ground Committee paid their usual visit
to the ground, and had some heavy wet-ting.
How was it Hiddlestone was not picked to
practice for the Intercolonial match ? Was it because
he refused to sleep over that Melbourne oven ?
The next meeting of the Newcastle Jockey Club
is expected to be an unprecedented success. The three-
card men speak cheerfully of the prospect.
The Macleat Eae-Teump say a parson named
" E B. Smith, Esq., M.P.,” has given £5 to the new
rowing club. Kudder for the next election.
The Warrnambool (Vie.) Annual Steeplechase
Meeting takes place on April 186 h and 2)th next. Nomi.
nations close on 7th March. Weights deolared 17 6h
March.
The Union Cricket Club, Brisbane, are about
to engage a professional bowler. Subscriptions to the
amount of £lOO per annum for two years have been
promised.
Mr. Finnie’s Goldfinder is at present the cham-
pion racehorse of Queensland. He made ten wins from
thirteen starts last year. The thing here is to know
when they start to win.
Twelve Years, late Burwood, the sensational
winner of Tattersall’s Cup,ilB79, broke down entirely on
the 31st Jan. He was being trained by Mr. W. Kelso,
and had dona some very fast trials.
Admiral Benbow and Mr. Cadell have offered
prizes to be sailed for by half-decked boats, and open-
boats 20 feet and upwards, respectively, in connection
with the Amateur Sailing Club.
We should like to know how much the Associa-
tion received out of the late International match. If
the question were asked by some member, perhaps
" King Phil” would let us know.
Cetewayohas a “ throw-in ” for the Newmarket
Handicap at 7st. 5.b. In the Ladies’ Bracelet, on
Annivereary Day, he ran second, with list. 7ib., to
Caractacus, who won in Itnin ISaeo.
The disqualification passed on Mr. Len Grim-
wood, after the first trot at Elsternwiok, Vie, last
Saturday week, was removed on a re-hearing of the
matter before the V. T, C. committee.
The Wilcannia Jockey Club is, considering the
position of the district on the edge of the howling wil-
derness, one of the most flourishing racing dabs in the
oobny. Last year it gave £1235 in prizes.
The Braidwood correspondent of the Rum evi-
dently pick* out itemi to suit the paper :—“ A walking
match is being arranged between Bumblefoot and One-
legged Dick, which will causa a deal of fun.”
The “ pick of Australia,” to play Bligh’s team
on the 16oh, will consist of Bauuormau, Blaokh&m,
Horan, Evans, Massie, Midwinter, Murdoch, Bonnor,
Oitfen, Palmer, Spofforth, a. Jones emergency.
“ Robin Hood,” the English sporting corres-
pondent of the Australasian say* “lam told on good
authority that Mr. W. s Crawfurd’s racing stud has
post him a clean loss of £31,000 a year on an average tor
tue last 20 years.’’
The match between the St. Peter’s and Car-
thonas, tor the Furness Oup and Trophies, was finished
on Saturday, in favour of the Carthonas, by 95 runs,
Oarthona; Ist innings, 110; 2nd, 156. St. Peteia: Ist
mniEgs, 73; Sad. 9§,
A pipe-smoking match recently took place at
St. Louis, Mo., and was won by Peter Forman after
smoking for nine straight hours. Alderman Playfair
beats this. He has been smoking the one cigar for the
last quarter of a century.
A match is to be sailed next Saturday between
the 22 footers, St. Crispin and Rosetta, with George
Fletcher and Podge Newton at the respective pick-
handles, for £25 a side. The course will bo from the
Vernon round the Sow and back.
Clifford is making steady preparation for his
race with Pearce, and starts from Donnelly and Sulli-
van’s shed, for his afternoon pull, at about halt-past
four. He is showing much better form than he ex-
hibited in his race with Tfiokett.
At South Melbourne, in a match between the
local and St. Kllda Clubs, Messrs. Slight and Rosser
went to the wickets at 3 o’clock, stayed in all the after-
noon, and left at the calling of time with 184 and 144
respectively, opposite their names.
Thus the Melbourne Sportsman, i—“ I notice
that in Bell’s Life ttf London, Melbourne is given as
the place that East hall* from. I do nob think the
Newcastle people will like this much." We don't
think the Clarence people will either 1
Prom Adelaide we hear that Mr W. Pile has
withdrawn his objection to Mr. A. K. Finlay’s receiving
the stakes for the Goodwood Handicap, won by Eosult
at the May meeting of the B.A. J.C. Hu has also con-
sented to pay the whole of the Uwjoosts.
The Cricket match, Bligh’s team against 18 of
Queensland; was concluded on Saturday. Tho English-
men won by one innings and 154 tuns. Appended are
the scores:—English eleven, 265 18 of Queensland,
Ist innings 62; 2nd, 49, The next match will be the
English Eleven v. All Queensland.
Mr. W. Kite, the well-known Sydney courser,
with his two sons and two daughters, are passengers on
board the P. and O. mail-boat, Nizam, which left Lon-
don on January 4, and is due at Melbourne on the 21st
inst. Mr. Kite is bringing out a number of well-bred
greyhounds, which he purchased recently in England.
A London photographer named Henderson suc-
ceeded in getting a perfect sun-picture of the Derby,
just at the moment when Shotover drew up to Quick-
lime. Crowds, stands, and all surroundings are in
detail. The picture is said to have been taken in the
250th part of a second, while the horses were going at
the rate of about fifty feet a second.
While in England, the Australian team travelled
5786 miles; between the dates of their departure from
and return to Australia they travelled in all 35,296
miles. Of the money earned by tho team, about one-
third (according to Figaro) was left in England, in-
vested in railway and other stock by the more provident
of the players. More likely in long-sleevrrs.
The following prices were realised at the sale of
Me. F. Wentworth's stud:—Bandmaster, Mr W. Gan-
non, 320gs.| The Drummer. Mr, A Q. Smart, 420gr.i Sar-
donyx. Mr. Town, 320g5.; Vaucluee, bought in at 600g5,;
Dorothea. Mr. Cornwell, 65*8.; Wooll&hra, Mr. Bsnaon
lOOgs,; Figaro, Mr. Drmohoe, 75.’5.; Privateer, Hr.
Smart, 205*8 ; Elastic, 130g5.; Gertrude, 70gs.; Stella,
75gs.
The following is from an English paper:—
"There was the usual crowd at Benson’s, waiting for
the result of the Cambridgeshire. Up wont the tele-
gram. * What is it P What is It?’ excitedly sskod *
latecomer ‘Postponed.’ was tho reply. * Postponed?
Another d —d outsider, I auppose,’ exclaimed the ex-
cited inquirer; ’never heard his blessed name even
mentioned in tho betting.’"
Vfe are all frail creatures when it comes to pay-
ing wagers. Even tha totaliuator men err occasionally.
At the Waitara (N.Z ) animal meeting, on Boxing Day,
when the totalisator was closed on one race, the total
of investors was 175. After the race, the index showed
sixteen less. Tho crowd proceeded to argue the matter
with the mistaken scientists. The argument for the
most part was conducted with toe-piated boots and
Kauri pine clubs. The crowd won.
It was only the other day that a pretty wrangle
occurred over a lady in—of all the places in the world —
the judge’s box on a Northern racecourse Tho horses
wore at the post, and the time-keeper was ready with his
chronometer. The judge hit a steward who had followed
him in for “an explanation," and the eteward replied.
In the scrimmage, tne time-keeper was dislodged. As
n<nal, the police were at the back ef the booth 1
Bugbear, the English sculler, recently pub-
lished the following is the London Sportsman If
there be a doubt in tho mind of anyone as to tho cor-
rectaoss of my rowing during the past season, I will
engage to row any or all of my four winning races over
again, each for £lOO a-alde, and a fortnight apart, and
give my opponents 5 see. at the finishing end of the
course In Silver’s case there would consequently be
10 secs ia all given." Bright took up tho challenge.
John Meagher, the American walker, on Nov. 9,
accomplished the feat of walking 8 miles 302yds. with-
in an hour. The performance was made in a match
with Driscoll, whom he beat easily. He is a native ot
Birmingham, England, is 23 years of age, weighs 1361 b.,
and stands s(t 7i'n. in height. Driscoll, his opponent,
covered 8 miles 47yds. in the hour The best previous
record for an hour was Smiles 172yds., by W. Griffia, at
London, Oct. 4,1881.
What ia described as the most sensational
innings ever ssen was recently played in the second
eleven match between Melbourne and East Melbourne
Clubs. The batsman was E. P. Dickson. One splendid
hit into the tennis-court split the cover of tha ball
clean open; with another tremendous swipe Dickson
smashed his bat; this feat was followed up by driving a
ball hard into the opposite wicket and breaking a
stump; whilst a fourth hit brought mid-off to grass
with a severely injured leg.
At a meeting of the National Regatta Com-
mittee, on Friday night, the following protests were
decided :—Maiden Amateur four-oars, first place to
North Shore Sowing Club; Laidley Sculls, the protest
of Mr. W. G. Brett, was disallowed; Maiden Amateur
double-sculls, Glebe Eowing Club confirmed in their
first position; All-comers pair oars, the protest of
Triokett and Lynch was allowed, it having been proved
that Largan and Layoook had attempted to take their
water before the Utter were a boat’s length ahead.
Layoook has published the following letter in
the Herald, with respect to tho pair-ear race on Anni-
versary Day" Trickett, it appears, entered a protest
against ns on the ground of a foul, and got the money.
Though our boats or oars never touched, just as wo
passed them they strained every nerve to make a foul of
it, but had not enough go-fast, so had to take a back
seat. Censidering they never lost a stroke, and that we
finished about 200 yards in front of them, it is hard
luck, indeed, that we are to be shut out in the cold. I
may also mention that they had the foro-part ot thoir
boat canvassed in—a thing never allowed in that class
of boat. If such is the treatment that ia liable to
be meted out to the oarsmen at the Natlonal Regatta,
then tho sooner they turn it up the better." It’s good
of Eli?.s to complain. 1
Thus the London Sportsman: —“ Anent the
prominent scullers ot the States and the Dominion,
Hanlan says he has weighed Hamm and Conley care-
fully, and knows that they are a dangerous pair.
Kennedy puzzles him. Ho cannot see how a light
weight can get so much speed on his boat and stay as
well as it is claimed Kennedy can stay for three miles.
Ross he has no fear of now. Piaistea may be said to
have taken farewell ot boating. Lee he thinks a clever
sculler and a fast one. As for Courtney he will give the
Union Spring oarsman time allowance in a five mile
taco. Laycock he speaks of ai the best man he ever
met. With regard to next season’s matches, Hanlan
says he will row the races for every pound of power he
can put into every stroke, and either will be beaten on
his merits or will bear, his competitors so badly that
there cannot be any question regarding the identity of
the bettor man ’’
One day, just before the local race meeting, a
simple-looking, bnt smiling, stranger cams into Char-
ters Towers (N.Q.), loading a shaggy little more,
which he hawked round the town tittering for sale at
£l5. The horsey men of the place drew up their collars
as he passed, and coughed sarcastically. Others openly
gibed him. So the mare was not sold. The stranger
entered her for the big handicap as “ Fair Jane." This
is a well-known mare up North, and the "talent”
smiled uneasily, but now thought the man must be mad
instead of simple to have thought of ottering such un
animal for the price he did. Anyhow, he put her into
training, and she cleared all before her —like a Bum man
in a restaurant. Those horsey men now talk as if they
were in a sick room whenever the points ot a horse aro
referred to in conversation.
The South Gundagai Jockey Club races took
place lost week, iho local paper says that barring the
facts that the attendance was limited, and that a serious
mistake was made in declaring Lubra winner while a
protest was in the hands of the secretary, also notwith-
standing the amount of liquor on the ground, and the
entire absence of drunkenness, not to mention the
want of proper means to weigh the Jockeys, the meeting
was a very good one indeed. We should say this is the
most guarded praise we have ever read—except in the
g.M, Herald.
It is high time the Cricket Associations laid
down some rule, as to how long a man must reside in a
colony before he can play in a representative match.
We shoul 1 say six months at the very least. The thing
setms rather m'xsd at present. Midwinter, an English-
man, is to plav with tbe “pi-k of Australia" in the
International match, and Bonnor, a Sydneyite, is to
play with the Victorians in the coming Intercolonial
match. In two of the Intercolonial contests, Lieut.
Gordon and Mr Carter—two uewly-arrived Englishmen
—played on the side of the Victorians, and made large
scores. On another, an Englishman named Jeffreys
played with the New 8 mth Welshmen, bat he did not
corns off By the way, Jeffreys, with the characteristic
modesty of the race he sprang from, took a wager of
100 to 1 be would carry h s bat through the innings.
He went first to the wickets, and was one of the first
to leave them.
Dan O’Leary, champion six days walker, arrived
In Melbourne on the 31st, and challenged any Austra-
lian for £2OO and upwards. Edwards has ac-
cepted. and the match comes off. O’Leary lays
£3OO to £2OO. The following are some of the
principal races won by him:—Malden essay of 50
miles In Bhrs. 45run for £5O; 500 miles in IStiiira. at the
Exposition Building, Chicago; match against time, 100
miles in 24hrs; match agaiu«t John Ennis, 100 miles to
9J, for £lOO a side, won in 18hrs. 52min.; met Weston
in Chicago, in November, 1875, six days’ walk ; covered
500 miles, and won by 51$ miles; race in London against
Weston, who was backed by Sir John Antler, for £5OO
a side; beat Weston by 19 miles, doing 5201 miles;
Aatley belt race of March, 1878,19 entries, including
Vaughan, Brown, and Corkey, who were then looked
upon as the champions of England, with 529$ miles;
match with Campana for £4OO a side, winner to take
gate money.
Mr. W. S. Crawturd, the celebrated English
sportsman, must find the golden salve of 25,797 sovs.
placed to his credit this year by his racehorses, and
E lacing him, for the second year in succession, at the
cad of the list of winning owners, some consolation
for the unpleasant remembrances associated with the
October meetings This raises Mr. Crawfurd’s total
during five years to 83,189$ sovs , a very handsome sum
indeed; but it is a question it Mr. Crawfnrd's Turf
accounts would uot show an immense balance the
wrong side Lord Falmouth comes a bad second with
£15,687, and then come t'»e Duke of Westminster
£13.782. Lord Falmouth £13,184, L rd Bradford £12,048,
and Mr. L. do Rothsohild (who ban wou more races
than any other owner, except Mr Craw(nrd) £11,130.
These are the only owners of horses whose winnings
run in five figures, although the Duke of Hamilton*
Lord Rosebery and Lot<4 Ellesmere, and Mr, R. Jardine
closely approach that amount.
The second-class yacht race between the Oithona
and Sirocco was sailed last Saturday, and resulted in a
win for the latter. The Sirocco had a time allowance
of 4min 6aec , but it was not needed, as she completely
outpaced her rival, the Oithona not finishing the race.
The outside course was altered, on account of the heavy
south-west weather—to one —from a line between the
flagboat off Fort Macquarie and tbe beacon on Kirri-
bifii Point, down to and round flag boat at Manly, round
Shark Island and Fort Denison. round flagboat at
Manly, thence round Shark Inland and back to Fort
Macquarie. The flagboat at Manly was rounded by the
Oithona two Minutes ahead of her rival, but the Sirocco
proved her weathorly qualities in the thrash back, and
at Fort Denison the Oithona had a lead of forty seconds
only, which she increased to Imin. 50seo. in the run to
Manly. The Siroooo passed the Oithona in the final
bsat home, and finished the race at seven minutes past
six, in a heavy rain squall. The Oithona did not o®m-
plate the course. Despite the frightful weather, the
race was watched with great interest by large numbers
of people from all parts of the harbour.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Footrace coming off shortly, between J. Forster
and H. Green, on the Tumul Ground The Wagga
Rowing Club have manage' 1 , an overdraft of £l5O, with
which they have purchase i two four-oared boats from
Edwards, of Me oonrne. Another boat has also been
added to the fleet, at a cost of £25 At Caulfield, Vic ,
a cricket match was played between the Caulfield and
Flumington registered jockeys. Flemington won
Mr. Bonwiok, who is going to Europe, sold 17 Grey-
hounds at Melbourne. The prices averaged 9 guineas.
The Volunteer Artillery team, beat the Orange team
in a R.fls match on Anniversary Day The cricket
match, Nimltybelle v. Cooma, resulted in a win for
Cooma by seven wickets Match for £lOO a-side
arranged between J. Taton’s b m First Love, and Mr.
G. Woodbridgc’s br g Dundreary, to come off on the
Ist March, at Cootamuudra.., W. Hatch and H. Rolfe, run
100 j ards fl t Q ueanbeyan on Saturday next for £2O aside...
Geelong Bacas, first day Hurdles: Songster, Blue
Bell; Annie Laurie fell, and broke King’s arm. Trial
Stakes : Boolka, Signor, Entire. Qeelou { Cup: Gudarz,
Coulston, Mistaken. Sires’ Produce Shakes: Oil
Colour, St. Lawrence, Monsoon. Connewarree Stakes :
Essex, Bouquet, Soothsayer. Grand-stand Stakes :
Little Jaok, Contessina, Lord of Clyde. Second day
Bar won Stakes: Little Sister, Cnpidon, La Beau.
Mares’ Produce Stakes : The Plunger, Fryingpan, Bel-
mont. Selling States: Queen Mab, Boyalcy, Forest
Maid. Geelong Handicap: Little Jaok, Odd Trick,
Kathleen Mavourneen. Handicap Steeplechase :
Kanaka, Premier, Squire Stewards' Purse: Contes-
sina, Paul, Hannibal The “Who’d Have Thought
It" Racecourse is what Quirindi boasts of. Its ruts
oan take in ten horses. Tne last races, however, were
successful Caulfield (Vio.) trainers complain that
the training track is in a bad state, and that the
officials devote moat of their time to the newly made
lawn At Roma (Q ) races a horse called The Fool
finished first in an event, but the rider seems to have
more merited the application, as he lost the stake
through dismounting before being ordered to do so by
the clerk of the scales At Adelaide, on Saturday, the
Norwood and North Adelaide clubs met for the first
time this season. For the former Walter GlSen made
56. He gave two chances, but better hitting was never
seen on the Oval. James Gooden, not out, made 52,
Total score, 204. North Adelaides were none out for
20 The Auckland S.ud Company <NZ) has now been
finally amalgamated with the newly formed New Zea-
land Pedigree Stock Comnany A match was played
on January 2 (says a Melbourne paper) between the
Gowerville Club and eleven Seedsmen, the result of
which might be preserved as a cricketing cariosity.
Each side totalled exactlv 18 runs ; the highest scores
ware 5 by Taylor for the Siedsmen, and 5 by White for
the Gowerville; there were five byes in each score, and
five batsmen in each team had 0 attached to their
names, This is the very quintessence of coincidence.
* • *
The celebrated English swimmer, William Beck-
with, intends visiting the United States early next
season, when Captain Webb will also return. At last
advices a match between them, to be decided on
American waters, was being negotiated A great
demonstration against the sport of fox-huniing was
recently made in County Galway, Ireland. Four oo-
varti—KUcornaa, Lavaly, Greensge, and Castle—were
guarded by bodies of peasantry carrying large sticks
At Kilooruan the crowd numbered 500 persons. Bodies
of police were drafted on the scene, but us the people
appeartd determined, the master judged it better not to
hunt, and withdrew the hounds American bred
horses in English training stables—Foxhall and
Iroquois excepted—are noted for their bad temper
The following appears in an American paper : —“ The
old man appears once more.—Brooklyn, Nov 22 —Good
News 1 I ohalonge to walk any wite man in America,
21 Hours, the pro owls to be diatribeted to the Worthy
Poor Widows and Ortens Now in mv 71 Year, Including
Mr. J. Gordon Bennett, Editor of New York Herald, i
don’t wish to Rust Out, but ware out in a Good Cans.
Enos Willford. One Week Notice." A very weak
notice indeed 1... Count Lagrange has sold his two-
year-old bay colt Farfadet to American par des for £BOOO.
The colt will bo shipped to America immediately
W. D. La Touche ran one mile in 4tn. 3 Is., running alone
the last two-thirds of the journey, at the games of
Pembroke College, Cambridge, Englandi Nov. 11. Ho
is the best miler wno has ever run for the University..,
At New Haven, U.S., on November 28, Zilz and Kelly
had a glove fight. Eleven rounds were (ought, and then
the referee, Tom Donohue, rendered his decision in
favour of Zilz upon a claim of foul being made Lord
Koseberry has presented to the Edinburgh (Scotland)
Football Association an elegant challenge-cup, on con-
dition that the gate-money received when it is playedl
for shall be given to the Edinburgh Eoyal Infirmary...,
George Eooko is keeping up the reputation of American
pugs. On December she was arrested for shooting
Joh* Stack through both arms Joe Chipps, the
skittle expert, and the undoubted champion at the
game, gave an exhibition at W. Brown’s, London, Eng-
land, Nov. 20. He knocked down and set np 516 pins
in the unprecedented time of seventeen minutes
The new jumps under the Grand National rules, Eng-
land, are described as “ready made graves, six feeb
wide, and four feet deep, in front of the fences.”
Jaihes Gordon Bennett, of the N.Y. Herald, owns tba
largest and handsomest yacht ever built except the
Livadia, built for the late Czar. The Vanduara is the>
name of Bsnnett’s yacht Muscular Christianity I Ab
the athletic meeting of the Y.M G A., Boston, 08,
Mr. Brown put up from the shoulder a 1201 b dumb-bell
three times I'he skeleton of the celebrated Arabian
mare Seleda has been set up by Professor Joseph Pal-
mer, of the Smithsonian Institute, and presented to
Druid Hill Park, Baltimore, U. 8., by Mr. John W.
Garrett. Saleda and Esneoa. her mate, ooat £l6OO in
gold in Damascus in 1852 PtTOO was recently refused
(or the American horse Captain Lewis A peculiar
contest came off at Leeds, England, in which a man
named Hill received 700 yards start in a mile from a
horse called Feast Tommy. The equine won by sixty
yard 5.......... A pigeon-match for £5) a side, one hundred
each, thirty yards rise, one hundred yards (all, five traps,
both barrels, English rules to govern, was shot Nov. 18,
at Seaside Park, N. J-, by Alfred Greenwood of Phila-
delphia, and James Williams of New York. The former
won by a soore of 91 to 84 Prizes are offered ab
Harvard, U. 8., (or the best growth of muscle. “ A
gentleman connected with the University" will award
them to the three students whose bodies, their present
condition considered, show the best general development
next June A fancy bet on the next Derby was re-
corded in London the other day, the following seven
uorsos being taken against the field for a thousand; —
Maoheath, Pulmeu, Keir, Prince Maurice, Halliard,
and Ladislas.
WHERE IS SHE?
“ A woman, Riving the name of Mary Fowler,
was found last night in an exhausted condition at the
earner of Hunter-street. The poor creature wa« taken
to the lock-up, where she was identified by the police as
an unfortunate who had been well brought np in Eng-
land, but who bad arrived here some months ago, and
bad tried to obtain some employment. She failed, and,
latterly, had fallen iato drunken habits and bad sunk
lower and lower. When placed In the cell it was found
that her present condition was more one of exhaustion
and exposure than drunkenness. The magistrate this
morning spoke a few kindly words of encouragement,
and the wretched creature walked oat of court in tears.
Nothing is known of her relatives."—Newspaper para-
graph.
• • •
Huddled away in the corner of a cell—a bundle
of rags, and, with pale up-turned face, just lighted by
the dim flickering that comes through a square aper-
ture in the door, lies the woman. Outside, no sound
but the monotonous tread of the warder, as he walks
up and down before the cell door. Or, perhaps, the
occasional criminal whistle of some drunken thief, try-
ing to ascertain if a “ pal" has been “ run in," Sue
sleeps on, and dreams.
* m •
The iron-barred walls expand. The pine floor
is of sef test down, covered with purest linen. The soar
prison blanket has fled, and a snowy and daintily
fringed pillow, a mother’s care, supports the oarly head
of a pure-faced child of nine. A laugh, a bound to tho
window, a handful of mignonette is drawn in. A comical
little girl's attempt to whistle to the canary, and nurse
is at the door.
• • •
Home from boarding-school, a blooming little
beauty of seventeen, full of life and joy and song—the
light of home, mother’s delight, and father's pet.
School days over, and all ooming life a vision of hope.
Tho trifling amusements of girlhood have passed away,
and tho natural hopes and ambition of opening woman-
hood have taken their place. No longer the romping
girl racing through the long garden walks with her
companions, and filling the air with tho careless songs
and merry laughter that comes from innocence and
nature; but with modest grace and good humour ‘fol-
lowing in her mother’s ways.
• • •
Of course the MAN comes; and the old story
was told, and the old hopeful loving yes was said—but
this time to a scoundrel.
• • •
His position was good enough, but her father
suspected him, and her mother disliked him. As far
as reputation went, his was of the average standard
of young men of means —not a model one, hat still lees
a reckless or profligate one. The father could gather
nothing to justify him in giving her grounds for hiu
suspicion ; and the mother had still less opportunity of
ascertaining anything to warrant her dislike ; for he
was polite, mixed with the best society, and, for tho
most, part lived in a distant town which tho family
never visited. More from love for their darling than
from hope of his doing wall, they reluctantly con-
seated to give her her choice, and she was happy.
• • •
It was within a week of the day fixed for the
wedding. All the preparations were going joyfully
forward, She had just tripped into the drawing-room
with some trifling thing—a wonder to a coming bride—
a trifle only to an outsider.
• • •
Grey-headed father, with head bowed down on
withered hands, and tears, such as only old men weep
when a life’s hope has vanished, triokle slowly between
bis withered fingers. Mother crushed beyond tears.
« • •
But the girl! Standing in tho doorway—the
wedding gift iu one hand—the other hand pressed to
her fair forehead. One grief was upon father and
mother —an unsuspected one on her. Now they knew
the scoundrel.
• • •
She steals away without speaking. Back in her
little room, and the few trifles of ner girlhood are
gathered before her. Blank do pair, such as can only
come from pure agony, is on her faoe; and then determi-
nation.
• • I
To Australia. A friend will find tho means.
One of her romping sisteihood will see her away. Sbe
dares not face her friends. Agents, well-paid, speak of
work to be got far away Sonth. Emigration agents
speak of untold opportunities, to willing women,
» • *
Circular Quay. No friends : money all but
spent. . . . Unfit for common work; and accom-
plishments, without introduction, useless. Board and
lodging in arrears.
» • •
In all honesty of purpose trying to get work.
Being unknown hnds it not. Two niguts iu trembling
exposure and cold, she shuns the police, and then
nature gives way. Drink takes the plaoe of food, and
dissolute companionship the place of the heme she had
dreamed of. And a coming trouble she durst not
speak of to her mother.
* • •
No. It is a dream. He is come. He is come.
Again the cell, and the fact.
• * •
But wha is come F “Mary Fowler is called to
answer a charge of drunkenness and vagrancy, your
worship.” . . • Oat through the cells, and through
tho long array of low drunken criminals, ranged beft re
the court, comes the crushed woman. “ She leaves the
court,” says the paragraph. Where is she 1


The death of Mr. W. A. Poolman waa announced
last week, and it was stated that he was tor years con-
neoted with the Colonial Sugar Company. So be was,
but not L-i Sydney. That's why people have been ohas-
ohasing Mr, S. Poolman, a brother, round the city ask-
ing him how he “ got back to life again.’*
J3UBLIC NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON and GO’S,
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 452 and 434,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE.STREET,
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
at
TWO DOORS WORTH OF OLD SHCI*.
SOCIAL.
A Buonofisfnl ball wan Riven last week by Mr,
and Mrs John Woods, “ Jesmond Hoase." Newcastle,
to which the only drawback wa* an indifferent dancing
floor. The hostess wore black velvet. lon* train, and
honiton lace ; a married lady from Sydney, white satin,
lace, and diamonds, A. finished young dancer was in
white India muslin- B<dio was either a Wiokham
in cream silk and broche, or a Miitland maid in cream
satin, chenille and psarls. Hardy’s band performed,
and Compagnoni catered the supper.
• • •
The Amalgamated Oddfellow Lodges of Braid-
wood held pionio and sports recently in the Racecourse
paddock The precession was headed by that new
institution, the Braidwood Band. When they played,
the big drum always kept in front, so as to beat time,
as it were; while the piccolo (a new member) made
frantio efforts to oome up behind, and the cornet was
troubled in his soul how to play his music and keep
step at the same time. In the three-legged race, two
pairs wont off with the pistol, while the third ware left
at scratch, but as the others rolled up their sleeves,
when close to the winning-post, to settle a little differ-
ence of opinion about a jostle, the ehaps who had been
left, started, and secured the gold-plated jam tin. At
night a bail was held in the Institute. As double
tickets were eight-and-sixpanoe, there was no extra-
vagance in the supper department, and kid gloves gave
way to the natural epidermis—though a few of the
aristocracy wore white cotton gloves. The majority of
the male guests wore their Sunday clothes, topped up
with regalia, but a few evening dresses wore displayed
by ladies. The belle was a married lady in dark sateen
and lace. Music from a piano, as the looal band are
not up to dance tunes yet.
• • •
When the visitors arrived at Armidale for “ the
opening," two or three thousand people were surging and
shouting round the barriers, men and women on h rso-
baok, and vehicles occupied every available spot on high
ground. A dozen mounted troopers were ranged at the
edge of the platform, and the Lambton Band attacked
the National Anthem as the Ministers stepped out and
mat Mr Moore, the Mayor. A procession of musicians,
officials, various individuals of more, or less, or no im-
portance, with a tail of the general public, then wended
along under ornate arches and announcements of wel-
come to the Town Hall. Never had there been, nor will
there be, such flags and flatter, and festal fuss in happy
Armidale. On a pavilioned stand, presentations and
speeches were made, while charming ladies looked on
from above, and an awful army of reporters gathered
close in and scribbled with staggering pencils the words
of wisdom and gratulation that fell fr am the Ministerial
lips. Then a chert respite, and the banquet com-
menced. It was a very good one, and about 300 sit
down, Mr. Charles Wilson, town clerk, looking well
after visitors. The Mayor was chairman, and, a« the
length of the proceedings made soma people impatient
before they ended, he was able ts show tact by the soft
persuasiveness with which he besought the audience to
wait just a little longer, and the primed orators to
make it just a little shorter, and so kept everything in
order till the finish. Everyone seemed to have a great
deal to say ; though, except Mr. Copeland's speech,
there was really very little said that would have been
missed if left unsaid. The Minister for Works was very
well received. The toast of "Pastoral, Agriculture 1 ,
Mining, and Morcantile Interests" was responded toby
Messrs. H. C. Hangar, G. Paint, W. Gleghorn, and the
Hon. J. Richardson, raspedively. Messrs. Gould and
King acknowledged for Parliament. Mr. Kearney
toasted the ladies, and talked very nearly poetically
about the ‘‘festive flowers,” as ho called them, and Mr.
Proudfoot returned thanks on behalf of the contractors.
It was late when the.banquet ended ; yet, three hours
afterwards the place was in perfect order for the Mayor s
ball. Mr. John Moore detirminad to do credit to
Armidale: and he did it. Seven hundred invitations
had been issued, but, of course, the travelling presented
difficulties which kept some away. We should guess
four hundred were present, who quite filled the hall,
and it was by far the largest and grandest bull ever held
4a Vav England. It was held in the structure which,
when finished, will be the new Town Hall, At present,
the brick wails are partly up, and from outside, the
roofless skeleton looked very unlike a place where any
hall could possibly be held. Great trouble must have
beau taken to make things as nice as they were There
was not a fault that could be remedied. On stout sap-
ling pillars was erected a tarpaulin roof, and though
rain fell during the evening, not a drop came on the
door. Prom rafters and pillars, which lat'er wore
skilfully disguised by coloured calico, ware suspended
coloured hangings and fringes, kerosene chandeliers and
Chinese lanterns, in suob profusion that every-
thing appeared to be a mass of colour and glitter j
the lighting was brilliant the walls were draped
with flags, comfortable seats placed all round, ajid
the floor, though newly laid, was prepared tho-
roughly and in capital order. Two anterooms
were used for cloaks, and for smoking, while large
doors at one side opened out into the old Town tUll
adjoining, whose stage made a promenade for the guests;
ott'it was a ladies’ room, and below, the large mam hall
made a spioions supper room. Among those present
Messrs. H Copeland, J. 8. Parnell, E. Posbery.
i, liar nett, W. C. Procter, H. C. Hangar, B. 0. Holier-
mann, ». Prince. Rev. Mr. Ross, looal editors and
officials, snaatters and surveyors, most of the chief
townspeople ami many strangers. The Mayor and Mrs.
Moore bowed theig guests in, as they were all duly pro-
eented by name, and aii half-past nine, dancing com-
menoed with a quadrille M r - Marriott (C.P.S. at
U'-alla) aotai aa of /ceremonies, and as many
ware unacquainted with one another, his polite sen ices
were often wanted to help people along. A few fancy
Presses were worn, and a very n«h one, decidedly the
bW. was that of the Miyor’s daughter, Mrs. Todiftin
It represented a court Jady of a past century, and was
a rich rab* velvet with train, front of old gold satin
auilttd and trimmed with gold fringe and beads, old
Sold sleevesawd.bonnet, peirl necklace, white wig, and
vubv feather fan. Another daughter of his Worship was
Handsomely dressed »n black Mrs. Yates (wife of the
Police Magistrate) wore Mack broohd and wreath of
small roses. Miss O'Hara, of Gunuadah, was in a
fanciful oo&tauie aa Pinafor/o. A brother and Bitter,
resident) of the town, wore sailor costumes to match,
'( white material neatly lilted and made, and trimmed
with an unusual shade of pale blue, which gave them a
.orettv appearance. The character of CUntinipre, in
rad and blue, was prettily taken by Miss Oliver.
Miss Shadier, of North Shore; Miss Parnell, in
cream ; and Miss Rubin, of Woollahra, in cream
were excellent dancers. Mr. Bray (son of the
C.P 8.) wore a scarlet military uniform—which didn’t
flt him. Bnnthoraa was there, too; and a good Irish
character; also a lady in white satin, and coronal of
cardboard, satin, and pearls, that made her look like a
bride or a queen, or both. A charming lady in hand-
tnaloted black catin was there, whose tall stature and
tCbrtstian name tempt profane punsters to 0411 her
*' Unlimited Loo;" also Miss Mann, of Waloha, iu
block; and a young lady who was dressed as a
peasant, and seemed to belong to some country where
them had boon a famine in fall play. Throe maidens,
young and pretty, came from the Post Office, and a
storekeeper's daughter was Red, White, and Blue
Miss Bradley was a piquant girl in white gathered
t aria ten, and pearls in hair : a pleasing face smiled
above a striped cardinal satin bodice, and black sleeves
and skirt, hat to match, and crinkled boots. Mrs.
Buchanan (wife cf the 8 M , formerly of Armidale)
wore black silk and cardinal flowers. Mrs. Mitchell was
in a handsome trained dress of French grey or lavender.
Miss Valentine in cream, wore a wreath of sunflowers
which suited her brunette style; and Mrs Barani was
charmingly pretty in cream cashmere and broohd, with
wroath of sunflower leaves, and diamond eardrops; both
ladies wore their dark hair drawn tightly upwards and
foiled on the orown. Mrs. Ellis, of Sydney, wore
laveuler silk and cream lace. Wa have mentioned
chiefly 1 We ladies and gentlemen most conspicuous on the
floor- but many others were equally worthy of note
Home of the ladiec who preferred watching to dancing
were richly attired also. To sum up, the Mayor’s ball
was a grand success.
The celebration, or public ball, was held in the same
building on the following night, Friday. It would be
-imost a twice told tale to enumerate the guests. Many
(had been at the Mayor’s Bill, but some fresh faces
Mark ->ieu. And some ladies wore fresh dresses, but
that nonjd hardly b« expected of visitors from a
■distance. Ip both a flairs full dress was de rigueur,
among gentlemen, there being but few exceptions. A
solicitor's wile made a change hardly an improve-
ment—from lavender to pompadour and blue silk ; and
a bright little married lady came out in a nice ruby
satin and black Spanish lace, Mies Richardson in white
satin; and a leaser slater in pretty blue striped satin
and cashmere; a graceful atd bright-haired Singleton
young lady in cream; a tireless little maiden in blue
dress a»d high spirits, were among the best dancers.
Two Nowiown sisters wore noticed for their elaborately
hand-painted black satin*. The fair-haired wife of an
editor Expreas-ed her fancy in bin*, and a Qlen Innes
belle chose the same colour. Mias Lily Marsh was nice-
looking in pink; two light blondes from Woollahra were
in white. Mr, Moore and his family were again present,
so was the pretty widow with diamond eardrops. Mrs.
Orridge (who had herself issued a number of invitations
fit the next night), was handsomely dressed. Maslo
for both balls was supplied by the Lambton Band, who
played, bub the committee thought they'd better not.
About 300 people attended, and as th>re was good room,
and the night was cool, the ball was enjoyable in every
way. Of course, some of those who had borne the
heat and burden of the first night, were nob
averse to missing a dauco now and then,
and the quiet corn rs were free sileotel by
young couples who seemed to find mote interest in one
another than in anyone else. And an instance or two
hapjisned where mamma, when she oamelo roundup her
numerous nice daughters, could not quite "makeuptha
tally," and it was only after some little trouble that it
was found that Qaorgiaua or Blauohetta had accident-
ally strolled out into the open air—just to look at the
weather. Armidale girls will remember those tw>
halls for a long time to come ; or else, some of the senti-
mental sighs we heard must have been disgracefully
artificial. Neat programmes were printed in Sydney.
The supper tables ware faultless, and the catering, all
done from Sydney, was a great credit to Mr. C.
Smith. About 4 o’clock the ball ended, and
moat of the guests walked home, some to their houses,
others to the neighbouring hotels, through the cold,
dew-laden air of the still New England morn, well sails-
fled all round.
Armidale has a beautiful brass baud, and it played
day and night all the time we were there. It is some
ten years old, but small for its age, owing to the fact
that every little while its best players disappear. S une-
times they die in their youth, viotims of overworked
enthusiasm. But they're generally killed oil by the
townspeople whoa they attain a certain degree of per.
feotion. They get too good tor the others, and spoil
the band. The band plays three distinct tunes. No one
knows what they are.
• • •
A good party was given at “ Waitemata,”
Elizab oh Bay, on 31st January. A coat 80 guests were
present. Ballroom gaily adorned with 11 igs and ever-
greens, and the ladles' dresses ware fashionable and
fine. Music supplied by a trio, and the floor was like
glass, having boeu specially prepared. There were just
enough of the votaries of the giddy goddess to be com-
fortaula, and there was enough room for the jolly
“dancing Capla n" to reverse to his heart’s content.
Pretty fan.shaped programmes were made good use of.
Several ante-rooms were set apart for cards, smoke, &o ,
and the drawing-room was freely patronised by several
youthful couples with au eye io business. Supper was
laid in a large carpeted marquee leading from the ball-
room, and this also was decorated and lit with gas for
the occasion, in addition to the parti-coloured lanterns.
Beverages to salt all palates were provided in another
room, and at midnight all sat down to a supper de
luxe. At the oonolusiou of supper, a popular ex-
Secretary of Works proposed the health of Mr. and
Mrs. Pater In complimentary terms. Mr. Pacer re-
sponded. The ladles were toasted, and the sou of an
oflieial assignee was called on to reply tor them, but it
seemed a task beyond that singularly single young
man's abilities to accomplish.
He drew his Angers through hia hair,
In hopes that wit would follow ;
Alas, ’twas useless searching there.
His bead was hollow I
Blue dresses were most in favour, married ladies wear-
ing a good deal of blaok. The hostess wore cream
broohe top, with a skirt of old goi 1 satin, surrounded
by broad perpondionlar bands, uniquely worked with
beetles’ wings, whose variid hue * glistened cffaottvely
in the gaslight. The whola dress was profusely trimmed
with go>d Uoo, »Ld was novel aui nice. A sister from
North Snore, who danoei well, wa? a'tired in straw
satin, elaborately puffed, and draped one side of
skirt with black lace. A younger enter, partial to the
waltz, wore brocaded b.ue silk, with tight, sleeveless
body, oroam satin let in the skirt and in the long train.
Two Cook's River sisters donned light blue satin, with
whits laoe and scarlet roses ; and a pair from the city
wore blue satin with oross-bara of cardinal. A married
lady from C.eveland street wore handsome white satin
and honition lac , a bridal dress. A captain's wile in
black brocaded satin dmoed as wall aid as much as her
daughters in light dresses with cardinal trimming. A
very flue old gold satin, richly trimmed, was seen on a
Cook s Qiver matron ; and many others were excellent,
but the inscription is impossible. Dancing continued
till 4 a.m, with a few intermissions, and wi bout an/
wallflowers taking root Oh I during the afternoon
several score of yoqngstorgsu icassta'iy attaoted a huge
Christmas tree loaded with gifts, and played Ned Knly
with it. And one bad bey made a wiokea, wioked jo re,
on the kind hostess. Ho said, “ When will she re-pear
entertainment P"
* * *
About 350 persona accepted the invitation of M.
M. Conil and Didier, to tne matingo dausante on the
Natal last weak. The olerk of the weather, who mast
be a Gallophile, spread a curtain of clouds to temper
the fervour of oar Australian sun, and an immense awn-
ing canopied most of the upper deok from the poop
for’ard, while flags, the tricolour predominating,
screened the party from the gaze of loiterers on the
quay. Wise virgins who sat beside the red strip in the
famous old flag received an additional charm to their
complexions; the foolish ones beside the blue looking
ghastly by comparison. Ferns, plants, etc., male the
poop quite a o msorvatory : in fact, nothing was wanting.
After a few dances to the notes of the Naval
Brigade Bml, all adjourned to the saloon, where an
excellent In icheon awaited them, served by nimble and
noiseless waiters, ever alert to supply the least neces-
sity-jewels of their kind. Once more to the upper
deok, where the fe* remaining nonrs of daylight fliw
post in dancing, chatting, flirting, etc. Although the
affair only demanded semi-toilette, some charming coi-
tames wero displayed. A well-known piamste, who, at
the present moment, deems the “ Wedding March" the
most delightful of compositions, wore blaek satin,
Spanish laoe top, lace to match, coiffure of pansies and
roses The dresi of a musical lady from Ditlinghurst
consisted of brown satin, passementerie trimmingj,
cream guipure and hat. A stately songstress from
Palmer-street wote cardinal silk and velvet, whili her
sister appeared in brown cashmere and plnsh with gold
battons, hat to match The daughter of a Darling hurst
surgeon donned cream satin, Madras musun, and lace.
A very elegant costume was one of heliotrope satin, laoe
top, guipure trimmings, cream laca hat, with heliotrope
and cream feathers No less charming looked an
ex-M ayoress, in mauve satin and ivory broohd. Two
sisters, having a poet father for chaperon, looked
attractive, the one in black, and the other in cream
muslin. A tall yoang lady from Edgeoliff Road wore
brown satin and cashmere, bat en suite A pretty little
French brunette, who had the Commandant for cavalier,
wag captivating in pink ratio, cream laca, white bat and
ribbons. Another French lady exhibited a very elegant
arrangement of her o heveluve. Of the more noticeable
other dresses were, French blue and beetles’ wings;
slate, with cardinal trimmings and cream laoe; drab
and cardinal; and a lady from Aaburn Villa, Surry
Hills, appeared in a bandit ms cream silk and troche,
laoe trimmed, which displayed hot tall graceful flgnre,
and wore a cream bonnet with blush pink roses, the
ties held by a pin representing a spider, made of cat’s-
eye stone and diamonds. Besides dancing for the gay
ones, there were quiet nooks for those of a graver turn,
and as the matinee ende 1 f-arly, all the guests departed
before their pleasure t ad tim i do change do fatigue.
• • •
Mrs. J. W. Orridge (wife of the Superintendent
of Felloe) gave a large party to soma of the bast people
of Armidale on Saturday. As it was a short night, a very
early commencement had to be mode by the fifty couples
who were invited. The stately hostess wore a plain
black silk, and, indeed, many of the best dresses on very
attractive wearers were characterised by tasteful si.i.-
plioity more than by elaboration. Lively Miss Lizzie
Eemmis wore a costume of some note—black muslin,
and handpamted flowers on white velvet passing round
the skirts. Perhaps the prettiest was a plain pale pink,
worn by Mrs. Qodby, whom many considered the belle
of the ball; Miss E. Fenwick being a good second in
the race for the golden apple—her attire, simple white,
with a single red flower on the breast. Dancing was
not allowed to monopolise all the time, songs varied
the programme, and a duet by the Misses Markham,
and a journalist’s carol, were good. The garden was
illuminated by eolonred lights, with seats scattered
round—romantic results as usual,
Mrs. Edward Gillespie, Goulburn, gave one of
her usual enjoyable evenings on the 2lst ultimo. Music,
singing, and danohig were freely indulged in till early
the following morning. The hostess, in a rich costume
of black broohd and lace, looked (as she always does)
charming. A beautiful young lady from Goulburn, in
white and cardinal, and a brunette from “ Darren,”
Glebe Point, in pink satin and pearls, were voted
belles.
• * •
Considerable interest was taken in the marriage
at Kelso on the 6th, of Miss Lee (daughter of the Hon
Qiorge Lee of that place) There were 90 guests.
Bride was attired iu a lovely dress of brooade and
Imperial satin, covered with Brussels lace, tulle veil
wreith, orange flowers and jessamine. The six bride*-
maid) wore charming cost-ernes—a combination of
cream laoe and moire, with pale pink dog-roses for
necklet, and cream lace hats with same flowers. Mrs.
G Lee, mother of the bride, wore a very handsome
dre.es of electric blue brocade, and amongst the guests
one petite ladv (Mrs W. Lee) looked most elegant in
costume of Eau do Nils satin and brocade embroidered
with pearls and trimmed with lace and blush pink satin.
Another in dark violet costume looked stylish, and a
Maitland lady lacked exceedingly well In dark ruby
brooade. Another in black satin trimed with helio-
trope brooade, and another in cream and heliotrope bad
a very stylish effect.
* * *
The newly formed Drapers’ Association are to
hold their first picnic shortly. We regret to say they’re
going down the harbeur Last Monday, the English
cricketers were entertained at a ball at Brisbane. It
was a small one. An aristocratic girl wouldn’t dance
with Barlow till ho took his “plates " off ‘-'ir John
Robertson played host to a party of politicians on Satur-
day at Clovelly When an admired young lady at
the Armidaie bail went down, a youth said she fell like
n ten thou"-and pounder. Not pounds avoirdupois, dear
friends, but pounds sterling Miss Bose Hears was
married on the 3lst ultimo to Mr. Morris Hermann, of
Coob amble, at the Synagogue. Four little bridesmaids
in pink and blue. The bride wore white satin and laoe.
and was young and beautiful. Breakfast at Nithsdale,
aud dancing till 3 in the morning And on Monday,
another pretty girl. Miss Mannix, was married to Mr.
Head cf Melbourne, at St. Mary’s Cathedral. Quiet
’•reakfast at Sandringham Mr. Ninian Melville, as
Mayor of Newtown, was presented with ft silver cradle
on Friday night. It seems Mrs Melville had displayed
her loyalty during his year of office The Botany
Social Club will have their usual evening c £ dance on
Friday.
FASHIONABLE FIXTURES.
Intercolonial Cricket Match Feb. 9. 10, 12.
laternational Cricket Match Feb. 16,17,19.
The Corpse-Preserving Company.
BY V. J. DALEY.
This ia the century of invention. This ia the
invention of the century.
Like all other great discoveries this greatest of
all was made by apparent accident. Like all ravolatiOLß
it c?.ms in a lightning flash. This was the manner of
its genesis.
We were talking of cremation, the German
chemist and myself. He was a strange fellow, this
German, with a head full of strange ideas. The gro-
tesque imagination of his race was perceptible ia the
nature of these, though is theory ho was a pronounced
utilitarian. Oar talk went back to the old times
the most cultured peoples of the earth burnt their dead,
and fat back to that night in the night of years when a
thousand funeral pyres Uvmed upon the borders of the
Trojin sea. I believed in cremation —he did not. Ho
thought it was waste of material In vain I instanced
tho pagan poetry of the act of that Carian queen who
burnt bar dead lard and drank his ashes in wine. My
friend replied that in doing so she spoiled the wine and
did tha dead no good. It wonld have been more sensi-
ble, he considered, if she hid mixed tho royal ashes with
snuff and taken them that way. There was no romance
about this man. He did not hesitate to say that he
thought it a disgrace to the intelligence of men that
they had not yet discovered a sane method of disposing
of their dead. The man who should remedy this would,
in his opinion, bo the greatest benefaoter of his that
ever lived. Afset this remark we lit oar pipes and
smoked a while in silence.
Suddenly tha great Thought flashed through the
gloom as tho herald star of a new system flashes through
sunless apace It burst upon us both at once. We
clasped hands, stared in each other’s eves for a second,
and then simultaneously gasped out —*• Petrify them."
That very night we arranged a plan of action.
We would throw the thing into a company of so many
million shares. Everybody who expected to die would,
we argued, surely t ike a share. Snob a splendid oppor-
tunity to become a sffid man does not occur every day.
Besides, people could not help having confidence in a
scheme whereby they Invested money in themselves
Bat it had first to be found out whether this petrifica-
tion was practicable That I left my friend to do.
Wo parted that night as man should who have parted
this world and the world to oome between them.
Next weak he came round to my rooms. I saw
sucoa-s in hi-* eye the moment he opened tha door.
•• Well?" Interrogated.
‘‘Well,’* he replied, "we are millionaires. I got a
o">rps ) tha day after I left you” (I shuddered but said
notang) "and started to experiment upon it. It was
just the sort of one I w intea—a deceased parson, who
in life had fed fat—and feared the future You see ho
died hard This saved me mnch trouble. In fact, I
t,und tuat the process of petrification had bigun even
in life. His heart I jast left as I found it. He is a very
ha>d case now, at any rote ’*
“ And tho process?*’ I enquired eager' y,
"Is a secret,'* he answered, Imperturbably. “I
simply, after analysing the chemical causes of petrifica-
tion, oast about for a plan whereby these causes might
be precipitated. Tima counts lor nothing in snob
things. As many changes may take place in a day as in
a thousand years, it the force of the chemical onuses of
these changes be proportionately intensified. Electricity
is the agent I have employed for this purpose. How I
employ it is my own little affair. I may say, however,
that petrification is hardly tha right word to use in
speaking of the process. The bodies certainly can be
made as bard and durable as stone, but they are not
stone for all that. Anyhow, I have now got my parson
as stiff as his own greeting to his Saviour would have
been if he had ohauoed in life to meet Him in the street
with a ragged coat on. All we have to do now is to
take out a patent and start tha company
The magnificence of this discovery must strike
everybody at once. It will revolutionise the thought of
tha age. It will make usefulness extend beyond the
grave. It will open up a new industry. It will break
up the undertakers. Wo shall see no more the ghastly
gaiety of fllagreed. German-silvered, garlanded coffins
enticingly exposed in their shop windows. We shall
see no more the dismal hearse, with its black plumes,
its woe-weary ink-skinned hordes, its driver with the
dust deposits thick in the creases of his rusty crane,
and the procession of mourning friends behind, who
cm scarce keep up a decent appearance of grief till the
dead man is dibbled down into tha clay. Neither shall
we see the mortality-smelling mutes nor the stolid
gravedigger, with half the residuum of what was once
a man under his finger-nails, sitting down to eat his
Inneh with the worms. All that will be done away
with, and wo shall have instead the very figures, and,
in fact, all but the principle of life of our dear deceased,
right at home with us. There is a tender and holy side
to this matter which I do not care to touch upon. Let
us suppose that in thinking of the dead we are each
thinking of somebody else’s dead. This will take the
edge off any apparent profanity.
Vary well. Now for the advantages of this new
method. Instead of setting np statces of eminent men,
that are either idealisations or caricatures of them, we
shall be able to set up the very men themselves. This
will be a great aid to historical verity. It will also be
an advantage In another way. Wh«n a public bene-
factor dies, an enthusiastic people can set his frozen
form up on a pedestal in the market place, and then,
when tne tide of feeling turns they can pull him down,
pulverise him and stone his relations with his pieces.
There is far more fun to be got out of this than by
burning him in effigy.
Men who have done great service to the State
might be petrified in the attitude of doing so with the
burglar’s tools in their hands. This would be plea-
santly allegorical.
Judges could be shown in the act of enforcing
the Law—the Law lying prostrate, and they standing
over her with a crowbar. Lawyers could be set up on
the Supreme Court steps as if looking out for fresh
prey, picking their teeth the while with a toothpick
made out of a bone of their last client.
Politicians would be very ornamental adjuncts
to skittle-alleys. They could be fixed in tbe position of
tbe Discobolus playing skittles with the skulls of their
constituents. Premiers could be sat up headless with
their heads in their hands. This would tjpify the fact
that they had played away all skulls but their own.
And these might be cracked in the middle for tbe sake
of effect.
The bodies of patriots would, of course, be used
as pillories for other patriots. As tor geniuses, I hardly
know. The cost of dragging for their bodies would not
be repaid by the net result. Even iu death they arc
useless.
Parsons might be planted at street corners with
one hand outstretched as in life. Into this the religi-
ous passer-by could drop the custom-hallo wed three-
pences, and the profane passenger coming round there
suddenly after could scoop it and spend it over
the nearest bar in drinking long life to the devil.
Bub even in stony death I believe the holy hand would
close upon the coin. Missionaries would make nice
lintels for church doors. The body of a starved savage
could be set kneeling at their feet in a beseeching atti-
tude, as though begging for broad, while they held out
to him with petrified paw, a bible—also of stone. There
would ba a light and oheerful sarcasm about this which
would do much to enliven the dullness of the doings in-
side.
Pilots might be utilised as weights to drown
dogs. Water-policemen would make very effective
figure-heads for mud-dredges. Policemen of other
sorts could be worked up into splendid scrap bowls, pie-
dishes, and beer casks. Or in a whole state they would
make unrivalled railway-sleepers.
The editors of daily newspapers I would like to
sea stuck up on the steps of their late offices with a
shark's tooth in their hands, engaged in scooping tbe
brains out of writers, and then throwing the shells into
the sink. Of course, I only mean tho editors of daily
newspapers, mind. Except the Shroud -and the editor
of that journal would have to be shown groping in the
gutter for the shells tho others had thrown away.
Pawnbrokers could be used as hat-raoks. Also
as scarecrows. People may say these suggestions aro
the outcome of personal malice. People may.
Squatters might make good use of the bodies of
selectors as fencing posts tor their runs. They might
also be need as material for building a new Parliament
House, the steps of which would be made of layers of
working men. Up these the friends of this last myth
would walk to power. Such an arrangement would be
sardonically suggestive to the philosopher, and do no
harm to anyone—none to the dead working men because
they oould not feel it, none to the living because they
could not see it.
Pressmen should, of course, be run through
rook-breakers and used as road-mecal. They would
then be dead done broke. So that death would have no
snrprises for them.
There are hundreds of other ways to make use
of the dead bodies than those suggested. A man, for
instance, can always build his house out of his own
ancestors—if they have not been too extravagant and
pawned themselves to somebody else before they died.
But, suppose they are all on hand, he might then say
witn no mere flgnto of speech, that he dwelt in tha
house of his fataers. And, supposing he had a lot of
ancestors, look at the uses that loose ones might be put
to 1 Towel-horses, bed-posts, olothoa-props, and who
knows what else ? Just fancy a widow—whose drunken
husband has died and left her to wash clothes for a
living—saying to her eldest boy: "Johnny, run up to
the other end of the yard and bring your father and
Aunt Jane down with you—l want t® put up a clothes-
line.’* There would be some joy in this—tha joy of
revenge 1
In setting up tho congealed corpses of eminent
men, it would be well for the enlightenment ot poste-
rity to engrave upon them a sketch of their history, and
a oaf alogue of their deeds. This would have to be done
very cautiously, or posterity after reading their records
would smash half of them up. As—in the case of poli-
ticians partioulai ly—many of them never did anything
worth mentioning, they would have a considerable
amount of spare apaoe. This oould bo profitably let out
by tbeic friends to patent-medioine advertisers. And
what sort of a chance is this to the rising generation P
A son who wants a little money can, if he and his father
are shareholders iu our company, go to a money-lender
and ask him to " come round and inspect the old man,"
hinting at the same time, that he "can’t last much
longer." The Hebrew having arrived, tho dutiful son
introduces him to the security. Then afterwards he
(the son), asks Moses in triumphant tones what kind of
a drinking fountain the old man will make. Moses may
reply cautiously, but he will lend him the money. The
son can redeem his father or not, as he pleases. It is
possible to improve upon this even. Suppose a man
wants to sell himself. Very well, the idea will be to
find out first what articles ot v*rtu are most fashion-
able in tho market. Say Etruscan vases are. Very
well again, all he has to do, is to crook his arms, and
ma ntain a sitting posture as often as he can. Ha
will find this easy if he is in the Civil Service. Ue
might also rub himself with verdigris every morning.
Xnia would give him the requisite appearance of anti-
quity. Talk of jour ®ithates living up" np to a
vate. They never did it in any such thorough fashion
as this.
Another thing: Thera ia no reason why we
should not combine the ornamental with the useful iu
this process. We—that is, the firm —propose to colour
any corpse whion may be entrusted to ua any tint which
ike last wish ot the tubjaot to bo operated upon, or tbe
fauoy of his friends may dictate. In the ease of csrtain
politicians we would have to charge double for doing
this, as it would be so much the more ditiioultto fix the
001-mr,
I modestly opine this is tho greatest soheme that
was ever sec before any race tuat ever lived upon this
planet. It does away with all the dirges and dolours
which now accompany death It familiarises ua with
the past. It will have a tendency to tone down much
ot the enthusiasm ot the future. People will not be
inclined for extravagant heto-worsnip of, say, David
Buchanan, when they know that David is to be seen
any day need as a hitohing post for horses outside a gin
saloon. It will change tho face of history.
Applications for shares may be made to me.
Enclose a shilling in stamps for expenses of considering
the case, and address the communication to the Shroud
offiie. Send through post. On second thoughts, it
m ght be safer to send it by a prize-fighter, and get him
to leave a bulldog to watch it till I oome.


QPE R A
Lessee and Manager ~, „
Directress
Manager tor Miss Melville
Treasurer ...
EMELIIi MELVILLE OPE
No Free List
THIS EVENING (THURSDa 1
List Night but
BOCCACCIO. BOCOACCIO
Miss EMELIE MEI
as
GIOVANNI BOCCj
Prince Pietro, of Pakrmo...Mr. A
Leonetto, Boooaeio's friond Mr
Scalza, barber.. Mr. i
Piametta, Poster Daughter to
Lambertuooio ]
SUPPORTED BST A POWER
LEON CARON, Musical
Reserved Seats at HCENERBEI
fll H E A T R B
Lessee
Treasurer,,
Under the Manager
Messrs. WILLIAMSON, QARNE
LAST NIGHT* BU
of the
GORGEOUS CHRISTMAS
ALADDIN A
or
THE WONDERPUI
Groat Burlesque Company—Miss
Jessie Grey, Miss Dooy Stewart,
Richard Stewart, Mr. Sam Pooh
and the wonderful MATTHEWS
Prices as usual. Box plan open
11 till 4. Seats secured six days ir
for all parts of the house obtaii
next theatre. Seats secured by te
\CAD E M Y
Lessee
01
Mr. V
SEVENTH WEEK. SEV
and Last Night but
THOMPSON'S COLOSS.
OF THE
ZULU W
TO-NIGHT, Double Suite of Fo
Night.
FRIDAY. Fob 9, Mr. W. H T)
WELL BENEFIT, on which oooi
some Bay Ponies will form the lei
SATURDAY, PebloTpositi
Saturday Afternoon GRAND M
venienoe of schools and families, \
receive a parting present.
Admission: Cbddren, Fro
JJAYDEN’S GAIETY TH]
The above Theatre is now to
ated. Enlarged, Newly Decorated
New Scenery by A. L. IN GETS. I
SO by 25, capable of seating 400.
Travelling Companies libera
Apply—
ARTHUI
JIREPARATORY SCHO(
BERONE, KOGA
Conducted by Mrs, J,
The Sehoolhouse is healthful
miles from Sydney, and within *
the beautiful sea beach at Sandrii
In her domestic arrangements,
endeavours that the School may i
as a Home.
The recreation grounds are nnui
inducement to varied and health!
to the pupils.
Prospectus forwarded on applica
JMPURE WATER IS
THE GRANT IMPROVED
SELF-CLEANSING WAT
and the best Parißei
Awarded the highest prize,
The Best in the World, i
For particulars apply,
WM. BURTON, CENTRAL I
123 Elizabeth'street.
NICHOLo & CO , IMI
M. T H
IMPORTER 0
WORKS OP .
GERMAN AND SWISS WC
ARCADE BUILD]
SYDNEY.
OPEI
AUCKLAND, K
The Most Popular Theatre ii
One Continual run of success i
in May, 1882, Rocoip
ME. A. LITHEELAND
is prepared, as the repressntativ
book dates for this Theatre, and
managers of
FIRST CLASS COMBI
for
TOUR THROUGH NEW
Open date, from 26th Maroh,
Address—
A. LITHEELAND C
YORK HOTB
Stdnet.
Calliope’s Con
ON TUB
SYDNEY GOLD (
Under first-class Patronage i
*ooo SUBSCRIBER*
3rd Horse, £2OO. 2nd Horse, £4(
Starters, £2OO ; Non-Stn
Persons making application are roq
letters to ensure safe deli
Address - “ CALLIOPE,” care c
Box 719 Gt.P.O., Sydney.
Australian and syl
CONSULTATIONS (Sej
•'ADAMASTOE" No. 1. Cl
ah ares at 10s. each,
£1225 for horse, l ?; £1275 for start
horses, 96 for stars.
All parties are requested to i
orders or cheques; if cheques,exo
and, in all cases, postage fees ; if or
Applicants, by letter only, adt
Queensland Agency—Box 473 G
Little's Bass Hotel, corner of Piti
and “ Adamaitor," oaro of L. A
street west, Me.bourne, Resulti
leading weekly papers immediate!,
lioants will please state for whi
tiokete.
ATTWATER’S “ THEA
ana
“THE ROYAL I
Pound.s'rcet, Gr«
FOR PRIVATE
The above Properties are eituatt
the Business Portion of the Citv
Land has the large frontages of 15C
and 158 feet to Duvie-street.
The THEATRE is one of the
venient out of Sydney, for Dram
tertaioments, as well as for impi
ings, and is in almost continual
poses.
The HOTEL is very oommodioui
view to convenience and comfort-
profitable business.
The Buildings have not been lon
perfect order. The Furniture an
taken at valuation or removed.
For particulars apply to
HEI
A
W. H p *
PIANOFORTE WAKI
862 George-street, S
3"
Vl >.
iiiiiiiiiiusiiliiii
PIANOFORTES, PIAB
Just unpacked.
SPLENDID STOCK OP FIBS']
MENTS, by
ERARD (Faria and London),
FLEYEL,
COLLABD and COLLAB
SOUPLETO,
BUBDEN and
TEOBT
AUC
And other Plrst-olass Makers, li
Black and Gold, and Wa
AMERICAN OEG
by
BELL and CO„
WATEBS and SO]
sa
ether Eonownod
H A E MON I U
By Messrs. ALEXANDRE FERE
Pirst-olaas Manufaot
A Large Assortment of New an
ways on hand at
W. H. PAL
862 GEORGE STB:
OPPOSITE WYNYAI
SYDNEY.
HAT IS C
Why, HANNAH'S GREAT Sj
AND SHOES
When is it ? Why, on the
H. HANNAH has one of the
assortment of Boots and Shoes i
arrived by the “ Clyde,” which
at Cost Price, so as to enable
and suit themselves.
Come one 1 Come all 1 and selei
Please Note the Address—•
H. HANNAH
Eotalßlue House, 482, Gi
Make no mistak
Directly opposite the Pru
CTDNET GY;
LIVERPOOL STEI
LADIES' AND GENTLEMEN'S
ALL BRANCHES OP ATHLE'
G. H. d'HAECOURT, It
fJIHEATEE EOYAL,
NOTICE TO MANAG
The open dates for the current ’
rapidly filled. Early application is i
from Companies Coming North. 1
from George L. Goodman, Theatre E
JAME
ktik
WONDER uF
THE AUTOPHONE !
THE AUTOP
>-
Cqyy IhTli ~
THE AUTOPHONE! THE
The Chea Pest, BoBt, and Simp
chaniam ever offei
For the First Time Imported
50 0 AI :
Csn be played by the YOUN(
WOMAN ITEMS.
nirls’ hair, 30 inches in length, realises a
an ounce at home. Ham I We don't think
■ shall write any more for this paper. W« havo a
*rter who is a sound sleeper.
Here is the latest line about the Queen “At
opening of the new Law Courts, Her Majesty's
1 D f,<. founded wonderfully clear and resolute, and was
in every part of the groat hall.”
The Empress of Austria and suite are the only
, 0119 permitted by th j Irish tenantry to hunt unmo-
Fated There is nsw, however, a healthful revival of
the abase in Ireland—the chase of landlords.
A. Geelong girl caught a cold from nursing an
influenzal cat. That's what the doctor says On the
1 a day a Geelong young m»n caught a cold from
a girl. He admitted this to his doctor. The
oat never occurred to him.
The age of chivalry is not quite dead yet. Ii;
was on the Nile. A boat capsized. Ie it was a beanti-
...i young Engli°h girl. A yacht was passing. On
laisrcl was the hero. Hojouo. The hero turned out to
b« Count Girl Beterhazy—the distressed damsel. Miss
Mary Charters, of Stone Park, Miss Mary is now
Countess. Voda.
Now this is a little singular. Miss Lee, of the
Clarence Eivar, was lately married to Mr. Leoson of the
Richmond Eiver. So :
This sudden change of sex is not
By marriage often done—
The daughter she of Mrs. Lee
Is now Mrs. Lae-soa.
Listen ladies. You talk of dresses — well, we
can tell yon of three which the Grand Duchess
Wladimir carried away with her from Paris the other
day. The first had a petticoat of turquoise-tinted Batin,
enriched with incrustation of humming birds' fadlhers,
and a pale, sky-blue damask train, lined with mocs-
gyeen plush j the second was a combination of three
ehades of raspberry pink, two of them forming the plain
and terry velvet of ihe train, and a third, the satin
foundation of a skirt rnohed with Alenyon lace, em-
broidered with silver and decorated with bunches of
patent blue feathers; while the last of the three, darker
in tone, consisted of a terra-cotta satin skirt. How is
this for style P We will take breath just here. This
millinery nomenclature is too muoh of a strain on us.
W« are more at home when we are writing receipts for
making dry-hash.
It was at a wedding in Young. The bride and
bridegreom were kneeling. Suddenly the " best man”
stooped down and kissed the bride. The priest observed
him, and reaching over the rails of tho altar gave him a
cuff on the ear that sent him reeling down the steps.
Perhaps—only the supposition is impossible—the rev.
gentleman wanted to kiss the young lady himself.
This reminds us of a thing that occurred in a Victorian
town once. Father Tom B irrett—hero of many a racy
tala-was marrying a young couple. The bridegroom
was excessively bashful, and when the ceremony was
over stood looking sheepishly at his bride. Father Tom,
growing mad at tbia lack of ''savvey,” forgot his sacred
profession for a minute and shouted out, Dam it man
—why kyant ye kiss yer wife ” The man kissod her as
though he thought she would bite, and the two walked
thoughtfully away.
A celebrated beauty, whose complexion at 69
was fresher than that of most women at 30, told her
secret this Summer, nnd it was divided into two parts :
First, she never used washrag or towel on her face, but
washed it with her hands, rinsing it oif with a soft
sponge. She used clear water iu the morning, but
white oastilesoap or very warm water at night, and,
sfter drying it on a soft towel, she would take a flesh-
brush and rub her cheeks, chin, and forehead. Second,
if she was going to bo up Inte at night, she always
slept as many hours in the day as she expected
to be awake beyond her usual time. She finished her
little sermon on beauty preservation by saying “ Soft
water and sound sleep keep off the wrinkles and spots,
and girls should give more attention to this than they
do, for
‘ With the coming of the crows’ feat
Is the going of the beaux’s feet.*"
The late Prince Consort had one {food story
which he used to tell the Queen whenever he wanted
to show how smart he could be. It related to a girl
about to take service in a duke’s house who was eu-
l°'ne<l,,by her mother always to say “your Grace "
when the duke spoke to her, and a few days afterwards
the duke met her in the passage, and asking her some
queation the girl began immediately with “ For what I
have received may the Lord," &o. Nobody but John
Brown is allowed to tell that story now.


A. GOBI
(late of the Telegraph Hote
HAS OPENED THE
“ CL AREN]
Corner of ELIZABETH & I
And which he intends to keep as a
A. Q. hopes, by strict attention to
share of their PATRONAGE. VIS.
surnasses moat of the leading i h
D/t HON and every CONVENIEN.
looks HYDE PARK, it must nec
VENTILATED,
SUITES of ROOMS for F
as per agreement
HOT and COLD WAXES
PORTER in Attendance Da
It is not necessary to mention
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS. Ac. i
ways has been, noted throughout (
selling nothing but the very best.
NOTICE OF REE
MR. JOHN I
Han removed fro
119 LIVERPOOL ST
to his
NEW WAREH
363 PITT STREET
Where a New and well-asaorted s
Qasflttings, Plumbers and 1
ware. Gas and Water Pipes
will always be on 1
Note the New Address—
-363 PITT STREET
EASTWAY, BRC
WIRE-WORK
w 1
8H to call your attontioi
we make and have in stoc
FLOWER STANDS, for holdi
made of iron and wire, handsomelj
suitable for rooms, halls, baloo
conservatories. Also, WIRE P
sixes and prices.
SIEVES and SCREENS, for s<
coal, Ac., all meshes, from 1 ho
square innh.
WIRE LATTICE-WORK, for r
from breakage caused bv bail-ston
stones. Also, WIRE NETTING
to 72 in. wide.
CAGES of every description, toi
singly or in nests, suitable for stoi
And every description of WIRE
premises.
EASTWAY, BK
413 GEORGE-STI
%• Illustrated Catalogues O)
THE TRADE BUP
No. 17 Royal .
Me. dav i i
(Of Paddingt
Bogs to Inform his old customer
that, he ha.» opened a branch o
ESTABLISHMENT at
No. 17 ROYAL A]
His great experience, viz., 20 y
his ability to excel all others. R
17 ROYAL ARCA:
451 South Head Road,
D. & R. BRA
TT>rvKrr»ATTVmJ!TI.B GEN
STANDARD ENGLISH-MAD
PEAPES & 8
HAVE bow open, for the SUMMER SEASON, nili the*rang
READY-MADE CLOTHING. These ?°^ 8 aro C “ t to
with extra care, and are altogether different from ordinary slop m
THE 800DS WILL RECOMMEND
STANDARD TWEED SUITS, 355, 42b, 45*), 50s, 63a
Itandakd WHIT* I wits, t 7 «J,m
STANDARD 1 WEED sa C 9a 6d. loa -U
STANDARD SERGE YACHTING SAC COATS 6d
WHITE MILITARY DUCK and DRILL COATs, * 2B ” d .
WHITE and COLOURED DnCK 9 * 6d ® ac . h ? 31
CHINA SILK SAC CO ATS, lOr 6d, iSa Gd los M 17s M
BLACK ALPACA WO.atd DD»T 8
NICHOLAS COLOURED TWILL LLAMA DUST CUA
TWEED OVERCOATS, from 10a 6d tc
CHRISTY’S HATS. CHRISTY’S HATS,
THE LARGEST, MOST STYLISH, AND BEST BBLBCI
SCARFS, TIES. COLLARS and SHI)
AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
as L sor™^^^
ment, all Leather Goods being made specially for na with a
usage they are liable to on the voyage. ...-d ttvitto oil oii
PORTMANTEAUS and TRAVELLING TRUNKS, all sii
TRAVELLING BAGS. SOILED LI NEN BaQS, BUD
and GENTLEMEN’S DRESSING GOWNS, PYJAMA QUIT,
EORD LINEN. DEEgsINQ OASESi B RUSHWAEE, CHOIC
PEAPES & SHAW’S. PEAP
George-street,
?UENISHING. AND OTHERS,
s Comf Itfco without a few nice
TUBES.
IT PUBLISHING COMPANY,
DNET ARCADE,
and
eotal aecadf,
/
ti7C over
THE PURE CO
With superfluous fat
extracted,
produces a
Light, Delicious
Beverage.
*
&
<*>
&
V
*
O
a
S' drinl
) liquid yield
ORDINARY
or BOLD BY ALL G
JgEAUTIFUL and most EL
TEENS, most of i
are really
VEEY HANDSO
in
FLORAL and AESTHETIC PEI
at
EDWARD HORDERN e
EDWARD HORDERN «
668, Briokfield-h:
668, Briebfield-hi
Hosiery Hosiery Hosieg' ]
Hosiery Hosiery ilosie
Hosiery Hosiery
Hosiery Hosu
Hosiery.
We try to please
We do please
We al
and
We always will
We always will
We
We
Our Emporium Our Emporiun
is
and
T?,owin.rltftblv Co
Well lighted
M. QOULSTON’S NOTED FOR BEST FROCK,
WALKING, and DRESS SUITS,
FIT GUARANTEED.
LARGEST STOCK OF WOOLLENS IN THE COLONY.
TRY GOULSTON S CELEBRATED SUITS,
reduced to .£3.
FIT GUARANTEED.
ALL GOODS WARRANTED SHRUNK".
TRY GOULSTON’S 16a 6d TROUSERS TO OBTER.
TEEMS CASH.
%
m
tailob
58 MARKET STREET. Establishad 2S
AFGHANISTAN AND CAPE GOLD
No. 9 SYDNEY ARCADE, and No. 12
The Only Perfect Substitute fvr 18
WATCHES
ALBERTS
RINGS
BRACELETS
16
