

The Bulletin
NEW SERIES
I -j£L-[TT2rT •p-uc'esTn.O'CCJE, aze-^o
v%vv
PI $
l
3iz3:a: j:o hihos
jDjnioj )soff yw
a
s’v y»* a -es. ie
isiun
AS ‘AINO ‘I3XUVHAVH
It cannot be too widely known that we are the Largest Importers of
Drapery Miry, Crockery, Ready-made Ming, Soot: and »
FURNITURE, BEDSTEADS AND BEDDING.
PKOVIDEBS
, Ms as! Cain
lllLa. o _, ■ > ,
tooling most grateful for the very large share of Public Patronage accorded to us in the past, wc desire oo assuiv cur
friends that we shall in the future endeavour to merit a continuance of their favour.
o Uf lv ° been always Most Successful in Placing before tile Public the Latest and Most Passignable Novelties in each c.f
'Pertinents, from all the Markets of the World, a success wc arc quite confident of being able to maintain, and tlus
hope to secure a Still Greater Share of the support of the population of New South Wales.
2Plea,so 2\Tote erdr -^dcLrea
rrv
VT
1
• • T
i
m;,
:
!ioj»
PALACE EMPORIUM, HAY MARKET (ONLY).


Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favourite remedy. We all suffer more
or less from liver complaint, thereby hindering'
other organs from* fulfilling their functions. Set
the liver in order by taking the above remedy, and
heart, lungs, brain, and stomach will umte in
graceful chorus.
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The true invigorator. If your vital forces are
depressed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of coming
disaster, your liver is unequal to its work. To
obviate all these symptoms there is no remedy so
6ure and certain as
ABRAHAM’S FILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion of
the maladies and ailments attacking the human
frame are really due to a disordered liver. Set this
organ in order and health returns as if by magic.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are imitations, ask for ABRAHAM’S
PILLS. See that each box, by whomsoever sold,
bears the inventor’s name and trade mark. The
Laboratory,
434 George Street, Sydney.
MONEY LOANS GRANTED at moderate inte-
rest on Furniture (without possession),
Deeds, Bonds, Certificates, Shares, or other Secu-
rities, payable to suit convenience.
No Deduction made from amount Required,
which will be paid in full within twelve hours of
application.
MONT DE PIETE CENTRAL LOAN OFFICE,
98 Castlreagii Street,
One door South of King Street.
WORKING CLASSES,
GENERATE YOUR OWN GAS.
Apply to
D. KEE L Y AND CO.,
71 Goulburn-street, Sydney.
Dealers in Portable Gas, Gasalicrs, Lamps, and
Fluid. Comfort, Economy, and Safety.
Mr. Keely, on behalf of the Patent Portable Gas
Co., had charge of the lighting of the hall and
supper rooms at the Hay Demonstration, and the
lighting of Croydon Station. He undertakes to
teach his customers in three minutes the mode of
lighting.
A liberal discount will be given to storekeepers
on remittances per orders, and goods forwarded
with quick despatch. Orders and remittances to
bo sent to the above address. No orders attended
to without remittance.
LIST OF PRICES:
4 Light Gasalier 70s
3 do do .. .. .. ..50s
2 do do 35s to 45s
Wall bracket lamp, burn 16 hours.. 17s 6d
do do 9 do .. 15s
Table lamps, 2 branch 60s
do 1 do 45s
Brass Brackets 40s
All Globes and Fittings .. .. 5s extra
Fluid, in cases, 8 gal .. .. .i 2s 6d per gal.
1 gal. fluid gives a light equal to 12s worth kero-
sene. Instructions as to the mode of lighting sent
to clients with despatch of goods.
Goods sent to all parts of the Colonies.
EVERY DESCRIPTION OE FISHING TACKLE,
Wholesale and Retail.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE STREET,
V. E. ANGLE’S
(Late of 31 Market-street),
Fashionable Tailoring Establishment
636 GEORGE STREET,
Brickfield Hill.
A large and well-assorted stock of Tweeds and
Coatings, direct from the manufacturers, always
on hand.
All Garments Cut in the most Fashionable Styles.
PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
Note the Address-
-636 George St., Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY.
ERNEST CARTER,
Wardell Saw and Planing Mills ,
RICHMOND RIVER.
25?™ All Timber is thoroughly seasoned before it
leaves these Mills, and is very light for carriage
up-country, and fit for immediate use.
PINE, CEDAR, BEECH, FLOORING, LINING.
Mouldings, Architraves. The Trade only Supplied.
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
Jj. UEALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE,
RAINS, BRUISES, BURNS. SCALDS, & c ., ancl
iaken internally cures DIARRHCEA, DYSENTERY,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other internal aches
and pains. .
Price, 2/- Sold Eveiywlierc.
C. E. MOULTGM, sole propcsctor,
MELBOURNE A-ISTID aYDNEY,
BULL & ADRIAN,
Merchant Tailors,
sKSf
0
SO
SAY
ALL
OF
US
470 George-street, opposite the Markets
SYDNEY.
Atlas Foundry & Engineer-
ing Company,
W hay STREET SYDNEY.
Engineers, Boidermakers and Shipbuilders
Iron and Brassfounders, Coppersmiths and
Millwrights.
The above firm are prepared to undertake con-
tracts for the manufacture of Marine and Station-
ary Engines, Boilers, and Girder Work, Quartz-
erushing, Sawmill, Sheep-washing, Mining, Sugar-
mills, and all other descriptions of Machinery, with
latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for metal.
No. 17 ROYAL ARCADE.
MR. DAYID DUNK,
(Of Paddington)
Begs to inform his old customers and public gener-
ally that he has opened a branch of his FRUITER-
EUS’ ESTABLISHMENT at
No. 17 ROYAL ARCADE.
His great experience, viz., 20 years, is a guarantee
of his ability to excel all others. Remember the
address —
17 ROYAL ARCADE, and
451 South Head Road, Paddington.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. !l/£a,t"CLred.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottled in bond for Export at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, therefore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ Whiskey Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly BrotSsers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
SYDNEY &
COFFEE
231 GEORGE STREET NORTH.
PALACE,
JOHN JOHNSON, Proprietor.
HAYING opened the above, the Proprietor has
supplied a want long felt in Sydney. The
first floor contains spacious Ladies and Gentle-
men’s Dining and Drawing Rooms, also Suites and
Single Bedrooms (viz., 45 bedrooms), will be open
shortly. A trial solicited.
CALL AND INSPECT.
THOMAS EHJHRO,
HERALDIC ARTIST AND ENGRAVER,
PLAIN AND FANCY STATIONER,
10 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
A Large and varied assortment of Letter Books,
Account Books, and all office requisites. Purses,
Albums, Plush Bags, and Reticules; Artists’ Mate-
rials, Photo, and Picture Frames, Illuminated
Scripture and other texts. Birthday, Condolence,
and Memorial Cards.
Agent for August Huenerbein for Pianos, Or-
gans, and Music. The Engraving workshop being
under my own management, I feel confident in
suiting the public taste.
X SIMPSON,
U * IRONFOUNDER, &c.
Campe r d o w N Foundry,
Lambert-street, Campordown, West Sydney,
Manufactures all kinds of ornamental Palisading,
Frieze, Fringe, and Brackets, Plain and Fluted
Columns, Window Mullions, Colonial Oven Grates,
and General Castings.
tW N.B.—Orders from the country punctually
attended to, and forwarded by road, rail, or water.
NO. 161 KINO STREET
(Near Tramway).—
Madame Weigel's PAPER
PATTERNS, cut in 1 2 sizes,
for Ladies and children.
Prices from fid. to 25.. Wei-
gel’s .) ourn.ti of Fashion, Id.
Catalogue of Fashions, fid.
Note the Address: —MA-
DAME V EIGEL, 161 King-
st. (near Tramway) Sydney.
Agent in Chippei.dule:
MRS. BEALES, Regent-street, gear Public Schools.
[HE FEDERAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA
(Limited)
Incorporated under Act of Parliament.
CAPITAL, £lOOO,OOO ; SUBSCRIBED, £665,000.
Directors :
The Hon. W. A. Brodribb, M.L.C., Chairman.
W. H. Eldred, Esq., J.P.
ltobert Hudson, Esq.
F. T. Humphery, Esq.,
M.P.
J. Y. Mills, Esq., J.P.
Manager ; F. S. Macdermott.
Accountant: John Docker.
Solicitors : Messrs. Robertson, Fisher, and Ralf e.
Temporary Banking House, 257 George-street,
North, with branch at the Haymarkot.
Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies
and in Europe.
Highest rates of interest giyen oh Deposits, and
all usual Banking business transacted without
delay to customers.
F. S. MACDERMOTT, Manager.
W. H. Ariel! and Co/s Agencies.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, Canter-
bury, Normanby, and Christmas Family Cakes,
Plum Puddings, Mincemeat, Self-raising
JErated Flour, Infant’s Food, Treacle and
Golden Syrup.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS.—Superior Victorian Oat-
meal and Pearl Barley.
DILLON & BURROWS’ prize assorted Confec-
tionery.
J. KITCHEN & SONS, No. 1 Mottled and Toilet
Soaps. /
J. F. M'KENZIE & CO.'S Coffee, Mustard, Cocoa,
Tea, in K>lb. and lib. packets ; dressed Rice,
and Patent Groats.
HUNT & CO.’S Prize Bpking Powders, Adelaide
Jams Paper Bags, Sc.
313 and 345 KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
Coolalta Wine, Bodega,
MORT’S PASSAGE, back of Messrs. W. 11.
Paling and Co.’s.
Choicest Wines, by the glass or bottle, may be had
at the Bodega. Hot Spiocd Wines during Winter.
Open from 9 a.m. till G p.m.
DANCING.— Professor WEST returned from
Europe. Beginners and advanced hall classes,
Mondays and Thursdays, at 8 p.in.; afternoon
classes, Mondays and Thursdays, 4.30 p.m.; Special
Waltz and Minuet classes, Wednesday, 5 p.m.; pri-
vate lessons daily. New waltz taught in six lessons.
All wishing lessons apply 251 Elizabeth-street.
Pupils informed all old dances taught first, then
waltz, quadrilles, French cotillions, minuet de la
cour, latter danced everywhere by the Mite (see
London, Paris, Berlin, and Now York papers). The
minuet may be danced by one, two, or four people
only at parties.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHOUT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIAKD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON .-The
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon bo the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; tho oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S.
HOFFNUNCr & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
THE HARWOOD
Fibre Chair Seating,
Possessing’ all the qualities of a perfect seat, viz. :
Strength, Durability, Ease, Beauty, Cleanliness
and Cheapness.
THIS CHAIR SEAT is made from the strongest
known fibres and a perfectly waterproof
cement, and after fifteen years’ constant use, we
ean speak positively as to its merits. It cannot
split or check, neither will exposure to sun or rain
affect it.
Awarded Gold Medal at the late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
For RE-SEATING it is unrivalled. In every
house, store and oilico, are chairs with seats broken.
Any person can re-seat and make as good as now a
chair that is otherwise worthless, at a very trifling
expense.
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE FOR HOME USE.
Agents Wanted in Evert District.
From £3 to £5 a week can be made by any smart
man or boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
82 CLARENCE STREET.
T°
BE DISPOSED OF BY
SCRIPTION
on the
ART UNION PRINCIPLE,
SUB-
£IS,OOO
Pounds worth of
Freehold Properties.
£15,000
In 15,000 Shares o t £1 Each
Ist Prize, £BOO0 — Hardwicke Estate, Yass, N.S.W.,
2700 Acres.
2nd Prize, £3OOO, Farm, 800 Acres, near Gunning,
N.S.W.
3rd Prize, £2OOO, “St. Kilda House,” Goulburn, 15
Rooms (insured £1000).
4th Prize, £BOO, “ T wo-storiod House ” in Clifford-
street, Goulburn.
sth Prize, £4OO
tith Prize, £l5O
h Prize, £l2O
»th Prize, £l2O
Oth Prize, £B5
10th Prize, £75
11th Prize, £75
12th Prize, £75
13tlx Prize, £75
3.4 th Prize, £25
15th Prize, £25
16th Prize, £35
The following- gentlemen have consented to' act as
Committee:—
.1. T. GANNON Esq., M.L.A., Goulburn.
JOHN BADGERY, Esq., Sutton Forest.
A. M. BETTS, Esq., Solicitor, Goulburn.
It. C. COOPER, Esq., Willeroo, Lake George.
JOHN DA VIDSON, Esq., Solicitor, Goulburn.
S. EMANUEL, Esq., J.P., Goulburn.
S. MEYER, Esq., J.P., Goulburn.
The DRAWING will take place in the Mechanics’
Institute, Goulburn, in the presence of the Com-
mittee, on 30th August next, and will be open to
the Shareholders.
For particulars see Prospectus, which may be
had upon application to J. J. ROBERTS, Secre-
tary, Box 33, Post-ollicp, G oulburn. Local Agents
will be appointed in most of the principal Towns of
N.S.W.
Send Stamp for Prospectus.
THE AUSTRALIAN
Oisstiogsirl S3rSSi Oosup
CONTRACTS will be undertaken W
Company to bore any sized holes, '
horizontal, up to ! j_
3 INCHES, OR LARGER IF R®|
to any depth, at a reduction of 25 ?
BELOW ANY PREVIOUS CilA f 1
The Company, in all cases, will fi n( l
fuel and water for drilling- purposes, au“
no charg-e for loss of diamonds or wearj
plant, and will also provide workmen eus
£s?'“' The new duplex barrel, introdf*
colony by Mr. J. Coghlan, will be us?
ohnrirn to norsons sparnbino l for inincn**“
charge to persons searching- for mine:
Mr. Cog-lan has every confidence, frpfl
tical knowledge of the Diamond Dri“3
bo able to give general satisfaction, as"’
despatch to all orders addressed to the
Temporary Ollices, 311
JOHN COGHLAN,
General Manager,
Singer’s Sewing RHacl*
CO
turner & f
Are the Recognised Agents
CELEBRATED SING ER MANUFACT c#
TIME PAYMENTS:
2s. 6d. per week—2s. (id. per week—2s.
And no interest charged-
-10 per cent, off for cash. 1
tST BEWARE OF IMITATION
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE “ sl!
TURNER & COMPANY- ,
353 George
THE ONLY “SINGER-”
Turner asid Comp# 1
8®” OPPOSITE GENERAL POST
The Mercantile Bank of $
ESTABLISHED 1809.
INCORPORATED by ACT of PARIAN
Paid-up Capital.
Reserve Fund..
Directors: „
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., *3
Hon. Hem-y Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Win. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C-
Auditors:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq-
Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches: y
Haymarkct, Pyrmont, Redfern, Gnw i
Gosl'ord, Nyngan, and Bouru u, |
London Bankers: v J
The National Provincial Bank of
London Office: 158 LeadenhalHHg
Director: Edward Chapman- *'J
Agent: G. H. Alexander,
This bank transacts all usual Bank in ikfi
cial Agency Business on the most favp
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made Ur,,-
and other produce shipped to Englan o ,
J. MASSEY
fO Park Street
g*3»
m
v
ISP
i
of<
„„ 4
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT
The Latest, most Popular Music i°
J. MASSEY & SOrt
10 PARK STREET,
s?v
*1
Pianos! Pianos! P l 9
FREE TRADE and NO M os°?°'
•#
Live and Let Live, these are Out
It is a well-known fact that the
jji
oh? iif
Colossal Fortunes have been establi?%'^
the SALE OF %
>ast Twenty &&
Profits arising’ from
City during the past y.™
having little or no knowledge of Eviie »
and Details of the Pianoforte. t] gi
ana retails of the Pianoforte. ~,jg»
Public the benefit of our Mr. You e is
personal practical experience (° ? t
Rroadwood and Sons, London, aim j i
we will, at the same time, bo sa p .niciPp
percentage on the Co-operative F^yiy
the Profits with our Customers,
25 per cent, less than the same class pf,
can be Purchased at any Music , e
and wo will offer nothing tor y 5 * . o p<
guarantee. American Organs at ii jCOCt
low prices. Also a Large Stock vmo
bratod Austrian Furniture, a s pj-jc 05 '
which we are selling at Wholesale
Come and See Our LITTLE
nut and Full Iron Frame, at ’ fW
£lO more, or under a Liberal Tn u
tern.
, 13 rt
George E. Yoiisi!J
IST 28 5 PITT ST rt
South of Royal Area Vw
,
BRAUN’S WALTHA» ,ji
TOOK FIRST
And all the Gold Medals at e v ® j>oJ l
MADE ESPECIALLY
3. BRAU^
m
Wcitchmaker, Jeweller* ®^
37 C GEORG®,,!.
Near the P
ost Oili cC - /
rt'atc
The Largest Stock of Waltbanj '
500 to select
Silver Walthams
:1F 8
Gold Walt.hams froni “ gCV -e)i
, from J _ gv
Warranted from two to ;
J3T* Only at IS. DKAUFh bl '


t F ST ' S BOT EMPORIUM, 401 Georoe St.
K. near King-street.
Calf or Kid, superior quality,
j fc^ ie V Evtra Hlirta Glace Kid Butto:
d %p’: ll ponor quality, from 10s. 6d.
pg Shoes, a great variety, from 4s. Cd.
EURE
KA
r m
■
E°ke Eureka Tobacco
F the paragon op perfection.
gi Finkr than the Finest.
J Tobacco of file &Bje S
ti*.
jj&fy&eh PLUG is STAMPED with the word
Smokers see that you obtain it,
TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALT, OTHER BRANDS.
S’ Tobacco combining l Excellence of Quality
With Economy in Price.
MANUFACTURED BY
l
pis Tota St,, Lia,
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
AND CLARENCE STREETS,
f 1)6 obtained wholesale at their Warehouse,
Park-street, Sydney.
body. ov erywhere, and will be used by every-
} ks soon as its merits become known.
ffisW, EUREKA TOBACCO, -
toot t|,; aec<)r diug to Act of Parliament, to pro-
U bU c aj = a * spurious and worthless
agent for blackmer’s patent
ELECTRIC SIGNS.
WILLOUGHBY,
general electrician,
Market street, Sydney,
If.u. AND AT DONDON,
j'Elect • CTURER, IMPORTER & FITTER
J'l, Bells, Batteries, Indicators, Insulated
Patent Fire and Burglar Alarms.
SJothpLinbes, Lightning Conductors, Medical
1, Ga s r io V s ’ Electro-Magnetic Machines, Elec-
tric t jtpting, Gilding and Plating Material,
Apparatus on the latest and most
Principles now in use in London,Paris, &c.
liberal Discount to tho Trade,
fatn evoi 7 description of Electrical Appa-
uB on the most favourable terms.
Estimates submitted Free of Cost.
G
v
’• y ' ■ •' '° n~‘ : •
1STHMA, BRONCHITIS
COUGiHS,
V* **Ri .\«NCvr 8 Y- fcs • '
Rockhampton
w
A.\ ;)
atio
'1:1
%iB.
ana
*
Uo 1
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn sh oilers
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
&c. &c. &c.
.1?
PH
11 E B E L EW HITE,
GEORGE STREET.
thStil, in Bie rising township of Wagga,
Dlv'C 1 BAKERY BUSINESS. Good
k ‘‘ft??* boSsl claBB connection. For sale cheap,
about to leave the district. Ap-
A ost Olfice, Wag-ga.
t°Unders ? General
&c.,
h
CITY FOUNDRY,”
1 tiv
. 201 Elizabeth stheet.
ERPOOL STREET,
and at
kill
G<}tl Bathurst and Park Streets.
\V ?rtlarr,ent! )l Castings, Wrought
" l or jj °'<ght and Cast Iron Girders,
. Iron
j, ‘' j ijght and Cast Iron Girders, Cast
pe B, Connections, Water and Fire
X
°n for all kinds of Tronwork, &e.
J
B
. :
as
Sfe
legJs
VIRTUTIS GLORIA MERCES:
COALCLIFF COAL.
This NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY supplies the CHEAPEST, CLEANEST, and
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming- Coal in the Colony,
£1 per Ton net, delivered within city hounds.
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and bars'kept well froo from ash, makes a stronger,
more lasting, and cleaner fire that any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky llare and soot of
Newcastle coal, nor does it splinter and lly off like the Western, but it affords that domestic desideratum
of sonic kinds of English coal of heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a
charcoal or breeze lire, while it imparts to the steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwhole-
some fumes given off by a breeze or gas fire.
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.'
Office: A. B. BLACK, 247 George Street.
HT DEPOT : WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.’S
Bon Accord Brass, Copper, Lead & Iron Works,
8 and 9 MACQUARIE PLACE,
PLUMBERS AND GAS FITTERS, ART METAL WORKERS, &C. MANUFACTURERS AND
IMPORTERS OF CHANDELIERS, BRASS WINDOW SASH BARS, DIVING GEAR,
111.
PUMPS, HELMETS,
DRESSES, HOSE,
SPRINGS, GUERNSEYS,
STOCKINGS, BOOTS
(with lead soles),
RE A AIRING CLOTH,
SOLUTION, and all
ACCESSORIES, &c.
THE MARSHALL
WINDOW FASTENER,
THE CHEAPEST
and
MOST INEXPENSIVE
FASTENER MADE.
Prevents all rattling', and
fastens the window at
any height.
No weights, pulleys, cords, &c.,
required.
Celebrated CHAMPION ROLLER SKATES, and every other make, always on hand. Wheels, Soles’
Bodies, and all Accessories. Manufacturers of the PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
Ranges Pitted with Hot and Cold Water, Circulating Apparatus and Boilers.
MEDALLISTS AND SPECIAL PRIZE HOLDERS. ESTABLISHED 1855.
11. P. GREGORY. H. SHAW SMITH. S. W. GREGORY.
H, P. GREGORY & C©„
Engineers & Machinery Merchants
* ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR
Pay & Co.’s Woodworking Machinery Korting’s Injectors
Tanite Co.’s Emery Wheels and Machines Eclipse Windmills
Blake's Brass-lined Special Steam Pumps Sturtevant’s Pans.
A LARGE STOCK OF THE ABOVE ALWAYS IN OUR STORES,
as well as all
SAW MILL, PLANING MILL, AND MINING REQUISITES,
IT PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Hydropathic Bathing Establishment,
Corner of College & Oxford Sts., Hyde Park.
-6*- G-- Co.,
(Late with BATT, RODD, and PURVES)
AUCTIONEERS, BROKERS, FINANCIERS, GENERAL AGENTS, VALUATORS, &c.,
MINERVA CHAMBERS,
126 PITT STREET.
A ©UP OP GOOD COFFEeT
IS WHAT YOU WANT, BUT SELDOM GET.
IS?" THEN ASK YOUR GROCER OR STOREKEEPER FOR
A. G. Churchwooa’s ‘Grown Bran a
BLENDED PROM THE FINEST MOCHA, JAMAICA, and CEYLON BERRIES.
Umin
123
£s=s
CHAMPION
engines
AND
THRESH!
111
SAW
FL3UR
MILLS
5^
am "p
FLEMING’S Carriage and Machinery Repository
22 and 23 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Hotel
CORNER CASTLEREAGH & BATHURST
STREETS, SYDNEY.
JAMES SHARP,
Late of the Collonnade Hotel, corner of King' and
Castlereagh Streets, desires to inform his friends
and the public generally, that he has removed to
the above Hotel, which has been lately known as
the “ Hyde Park Hotel,” and which he has tho-
roughly renovated. J. S. trusts that, by his usual
strict attention to business, combined with the best
brands of Wines, Spirits, &c., to merit a fair share
of patronage. J. S. desires to state that he still
draws the famous ,
“SILVER CUP BEER.”
A. A. DEBNEY & CO.,
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
PORTMANTEAUX, BAGS,
TRUNKS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
A. A. DEBNEY & CO.,
Have just opened a largo Shipment of Superior
ISP HOSIERY, MERCERY, SCARFS, TIES,
COLLARS, and EVERY REQUISITE
FOR GENTLEMEN’S TOILETS.
SHIRTS
Cut after the Latest London Styles, by an expe-
rienced London Cutter.
N.B.—Country Orders receive Special Attention.
A. A. DEBNEY & CO.,
Successors to Hobson and Whiting,
13 HUNTER STREET.
The Apollo Company, Lim.,
PYRMONT, SYDNEY.
Directors *
JOHN KEEP, ESQ. | R. T. REMINGTON, Esq.
GEORGE TURNER—MANAGER.
Office—34B George Street, Sydney.
Manufacturers of
The Cole orated APOLLO STEARINE CANDLES,
OLEIN, HOUSEHOLD & FANCY SOAPS,
GLYCERINE (Crude and Refined.)
Prize Medals :
PARIS,
PHILADELPHIA,
SYDNEY,
and
MELBOURNE.
MULLINER, LEAMINGTON.
STANHOPE PHAETONS; DOO, TANDEM,
and SPORTING CARTS ; Barouches, Laudaus,
Coaches, Harness, &c., Builder to lI.M. the Queen,
H.I.M. tho Empress of Austria, His Grace tlio
Duke of Beaufort, &c., &c.
Orders telegraphed (305.) and executed in seven
weeks. English prices. Coloured designs of latest
fashions kept in stock.
WILKINSON, WILLIAMS and CO.
BOYLE’S CHAMBERS,
BOND STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for Australia, New Zealand, Tasmania
KtSWsCtUtfoL/^OB
UStfcfe.
32 COLLEGE STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
~ ARTIFICAL TEETH on the most approved Enc--
liah Principles, Htted Painlessly, Perfect Mastica-
tion, Natural Appearance, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping, Scaling:, and Extractions skilfully
performed.


the
G-reat
OF THE
8
m
JLCO“b3^L]i
Ol f SVnXET,
TS
JO
1 T:
The wants of the whole community arc here supplied in a manner not hitherto attempted in this colony. Fashion and Practice
A alllc > combined with the Lowest Prices ranging in the Australian Colonies ? ' P
EVERYBODY IS INVITED TO TEST THE TRUTH OF THIS STATEMENT.
llie Newest Styles and the Best Makes, combined with a Savssig of 7s. 6dL in ffss «£
♦TOIIN IHJNTER S CITI BOOT PALACE is supplied direct from the London and Parisian TTnn«;r>« , . j
likewise done in the best description of Colonial Goods. Bcmemher, that at Hunter’s Citv Boot Polo™ r t* 1 CnormoTls . business
rM » u ” >«« -- si ~. —c“ y £VSt“£;‘ rsxxSt
Notc this Great Fact! 7s. 6d. in the £ Saved at Hunter’s City Boot Palace
T,urge Fresh Supplies of Women’s and Children’s Boots at a Great Reduction in Price.
Ladies fashionable M alking Boots, Ball-room Boots, &c., in a style not previously seen in Sydncv
Splendid Line of Gentlemen’s English Sewn Boots, at London Price*
Ladies ordering from any part of the colony will moot with immediate attention. A saving of about 10s. in the £ will thus be effected
PEAPES SEE-A.'W
Have recently opened large shipments of their now celebrated brand of
Standard Ready-made Clothing.
I'licso Goods are All Wool, and the out, fit, and workmanship is not to be excelled anywhere*
“STANDARD” TWEED SUITS, THIRTY-FIVE STITT.LINOS AND SIXPENCE
“!<TAJfI>Ani> , >TWKKDBUJTB,TIImTV-HVK» , |’m,, , , l |NcjS ,A ' V ’ 8 ’ <,KO, ' MiR ' BTIIEEr '
"STANDARD ” TWEED SUITS, TWO GUINEA™ I'** 1 '** BUA ' V ' 8 ’ OEOBaB
"STANDARD " TWEED SUITS, rOKT V- ri V^,riuSl4 llAW ' S ' fiE ° RGE STKEET -
"STANDARD " TWEED SUITS, FIFTY SIIIJAANGA “* d OSOBCK S ™ ET -
NOTE— : V ’ PEAPES and SHAW’S, GEORGE STREET.
PATTERNS of the Tweeds in each price quoted forward on application, together with
instructions for self-measurement, post free.
°y P () P WINTER, in light, medium, and heavy textures, 255, 30s, 355.
' ’ V ERCOA I S, CU r. SPECIALLY , EX I’RA LENGTHS, and exceptionally well linished, 425,
S( OTCl’l TWEED ULSTERS, LINED WOOL, 30s, 355, 425, 45s 50s
G ENT.’S DRESSING GOWNS, iu Scotch Knickerbocker Felt Wool, and Paisley, in groat
vnnety; J e
N FAY RAH AY AY RUGS in Wool, Plain and Fancy Seal, extra sizes, from 15s Gd upwards.
A MAGNIFICENT SHIPMENT OF RAGS.
GLADSTONE’S IN BUFF AND ENAMELLED HIDE
Til E EXCELSIOR BRIEF BAG
TH E BEACONSFIELD, and a variety of other shapes
Portmanteaus and Overland Trunks, in all sizes
ra^7X.t S rw l i^«rv9i I R JSTY,s nATS * CHRISTY’S HATS,
ALL HIE NEWEST AND LATEST LONDON SHAPES,
In Black Silk, Drab Shell, Hard Felts.
Travelling Ilats and Caps, in great variety.
TIIE TURKISH FEZ.
PEAPES & SHAW, George-strcet.
THE TURKISH FEZ.
PEAPES & SHAW, George-streot.
E^eiiiraih’s
SHIRTS.
MEI NBA T IPS SHIRTS.
• ' y ' ‘ i. ' % *
SB King Street, Only.
'SiaiHS B.HGD YHMiai
Heisirafth’s
SHIRTS.
The Sydney and London Fine Art Company,
G-eoxgre Gtxeet
(UNDER FREEMAN’S STTJD.IO), ,
Have OPENED NEW and EXTENSIVE PREMISES for the Sale of
W oiks of Ait and Aortu, Oil and Abater-colour Paintings Steed
Engiagings, Piic-h-Prac, Pronze, and the best Pancy Goods
Artists Material of every description, Albums, Photographs of Celebrities
m 011 <>o lours for hand painting, Crystoleum OJass, firemen Mai la S
Wares. Pictures sold or bought on commission ’
lerra Cotta
, * Ct V V
, aud Doulton
Gallery Open for Inspection from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m,
Oriental Gold!
THIS Magnificent Metal—the latest discovery of
Science- puts jn the shadeevery substitute for
sierliiiK go ,1 ever tillered to the [iiiblie. The best
immitioos heretofore produced are entirely supei
seded and surpassed by the
Erilliant Lustre and Enduring 1 Scanty
of the now alloy. So admirable is its appearance
that the discoverers have not stooped
to apply it to eoinunm uses. No tuwdrvarticles of
JuVi 1 ? 1 ’ V OBIg '" ttrts inanufticturod of ORIENTAL
GOLD. It is worked up into
JEWELLERY OF THE REST CLASS AND MOST
TASTEFUL DESIGNS ONLY,
And is perfectly indistinguishable from the most
costly Jewellery.
The highest grades of Sterling Gold Jewellery
may be placed side by side with articles of Oriental
Gold, and the most experienced experts 'failTo dis-
tinguish one from the other.
The Oriental Gold Co
Have Opened a
SYDNEY BRANCH IN GEORGE STREET,
Exactly opposite the Central Entrance to the Mar-
kets, where they have presented to public view
An Assortment of Unequalled Beauty
At Prices which represent only a fraction of the
costot Sterling'Gold Jewellery of Identical
Workmanship.
RESIDENTS of SYDNEY and VISITORS from
the CO UN lit Y are respectfully invited to inspect
our Goods. We count it no trouble to show them
and no injury if no purchase is made.
We are glad to have visitors, because we know
that our goods please everyone, and that those who
do not purchase will speak of our Jewellery to
their acquaintance in a way that will do us service.
We want to do business with people throughout
Austiaiasia and New Zealand, and will send
PARCELS 11Y POST ON APPROVAL.
To save customers the trouble of compiling a
follows •— ake Ul> useXul uud attractiv e lists as
No. L
Gentleman’s Watch, horizontal movement,
Oriental Gold case, open l’aee with crys-
tal glass, with handsome Oriental Gold
Albert, lor
£3 0 0
No.
Same as above, except that the watch has
hunting case, for 300
tm-fTJ-KV, 0 obse,ve ’ y? 60 not pretend that
l li a i L -guinea watches ; but wo do ajlirm
that 1 hey are good, honest watches, excellent tinie-
keepers, articles which do us credit and give satis-
faction to our customers. In appearance tliov are
indistinguishable from expensive gold watches.
No. 3.
Gentleman’s Silver English Hunting Lever
Watch, capped and jewelled, with Ori-
ental Gold Chain
Oriental Gold Compass Charm
Tasteful Breast-pin. Oriental Gold ..
Brilliant Alaska Diamond, Oriental Gobi
.Ring
Oriental Gold Shirt Studs, set of four
£4
0 1
0
0
0
4 0
£<s 0 0
Ihe watch in the above parcel is a first-class
article, such as is usually sold at from six to seven
guineas. We deal direct with tlie manufacturers,
and on a large scale, and thus wegetspeciul terms
and are enabled to share the adv antage with our
can’t°hr?fni,i J hc Jc wel]ery, we need scarcely $
can t be told from sterling gold articles Tlie wo**
inanship is identical with tEe best Thul bj;
maiißhip is identical with the be“t. Thus, by -
uet s fenre t us ’ Purchasers, as a matte*
tact, sccuie the other articles as a free gift.
No. 4.
A genuine Waltham Watch, nickel c?se,
' thn a 8 supplied to
' Va lt‘S Railway Department,
with splendid Oriental Gold Albert ..£ll°
No.
Sartl R ?rM h N °‘ ■! exc , opt that the Watch has
as before 1 ' 01 huutui<f oase > wiUl ohain „ 1() (I
olhefwi^?, buy , t , hose watches by the
ot hu wise vv e could not sell them at the price
Sportsmen, Bicyclists, Pedestrians,
Oarsmen— deserve I
No. 0.
A Ii dn l nlmP 1I ! 0n l oM ' rap , h nic kel-cnsed watch,
ttl lS’ splendid timekeepers,
with patent lly-back, marking quarter „
seconds, with Oriental Gold Albert .. £4
No.
Same as above, except that this case is
arar or . niokei ’ wuh
Ladies ! Please Note.
No. 8.
" a< ehn«ed icntal °$ ll | Watch, handsomely
chased case, full jewelled, highiy-
'® ‘ e< ! wo, 'ks, with handsome treble
oSysss," 11 "“‘ » f .
cinh>nf b °wo a K irt , w ? llch will astonish antX
l ba<;h article is thoroughly good..
action of the watch is identical with what is
cases > vf same design, an (l
appearance i 10 ’ au<l thoro is uo difference m 1
2 J 5
No. 0.
Lady’s Oriental Gold Brooch and Earrin«s£tf
to NoCklot aild Lockot ’ , 15
Lady’s gem sot Gold Ring (real stones) ” « ,0
The above is a gift packet, specially select
ment St ° Uk at Bpociul,y ] °w rates for the
Ji h t°o foroffoin ? aro but , a fcw assortments flP{j
1.0 SRI fiustnTnnvo +Vw, *■ i.i « ■
mid fncov, ! uu , a 10w assortments ar. js (
Itlmm ° 3 cu ,?. t(ane . rs tho trouble of making* V
Jt will be sullieient when ordering* to }h«
i 1 -iot, unci enclose 1.0.0*
amount I ayadle to The Oriental Gold Co*
UIUENTAL UOLD
R wm. E ovw L T Observe. If the articles do not;
fmR r o^n C + C i tatlol i 1 Ol } receipt, re-pack them at oP y(
I / 1 th v em back :, Jf this is done within *
dajs, oi, where mails are few, by the first
i ;^° Cl^ land 1 and the articles are not
will return the money, deducting only the ti t
SSon postage. You can keep °£f
aiticie and return the rest, and we will return 1
money for the articles not kept.
watch sold by us will be rated and » cC °
pained by a written warranty for two years-
„ lur two yuain* *
We have a very large stock of Earrings, Brooch „
T , -v«tn?i ld .nß n A , lbei^. s > Lings sot with realsto 1
‘l’- Alaska diamonds, emeralds, ru
o!wi S U l o’,-, and A V sk H diamonds, emeralds,
and Italian pearls ; Lockets, Necklets, Co
Pancy Churms, Breast-pins, Studs, Solitaire h[V
Studs (some very splendid Alaska brilliants). x
prices vary.
Send us from £1 to £lO, with a list of what • ft
hMtnf wo i/ill make a choice for you t |J( )
i r Bidgmcnt and forward same.
approved, and immediately returned, we ’Lj
t-clund as above, or make any desired substitute
474
NOTE THE ADDRESS I
OPPOSITE MARKETS.


BULLETIN
Vol. I.— No. 6.—New Series.
SATURDAY, JUNE 23, 1883.
price— ea.
“Go It,” both of you!
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JUNE 23, 1883.
A meeting of delegates from labour societies,
at Adelaide, a few days ago condemned the
introduction of immigrants, and advocated
the employment of colonial material in the
construction of the new Parliament Houses.
If our own labour societies in N.S. Wales
were polled for an opinion relative to immi-
gration, there is no doubt that they would
equally oppose it; and, at the present time,
the ironworkers of Lithgow have just ex-
pressed their opinion that it would be better
that the Government of the country should
be overturned than that they should not be
afforded a chance of selling the fruits of
their industry to the country at a price
which will pay them. We have here, of
course, fresh illustrations of the ignorance
and infatuation of the “’orny ’anded.” A
territory equal in extent to the whole of
Europe, is oocupied by but a handful of, etc.
etc. etc. The argument is familiar. It has
been hurled at the head of the “ misguided ”
artizan and labourer any time during the
past twenty years, and it has not made the
slightest difference in his convictions. Yet
the reasonings in favour of extensive immi-
gration, and of buying our iron and other
necessaries in the cheapest market, are
thoroughly sound and demonstrably good—
in the long run. This is where thb hitch
oomes in. The artizan and labourer lack
patienoe and intelligence to wait for results
whioh only come “in the long run.” Which
is very tiresome of him. He wants to do the
best he can for himself in the meantime. He
wants the best wages he can get, and he pre-
fers to earn them with the least possible
exertion. And he wants these things while
he is alive. It really is not of much import-
ance to him that, by consenting to severe com-
petition, and, by being content to see im-
ported, at a cheap rate, goods which he
can produce somewhat more dearly, a
great nation, will be built up, and local
industry will flow into its natural and
most productive channels. The work-
ing man is so shortsighted that he can-
not appreciate the elevated and philo-
sophical conception that it is his duty to be
miserable in order that future generations
may be oomfortable. And, besides, he does
not believe that, even were he to offer up
himself and his children as a sacrifice to a
national and economic ideal, the future gen-
eration, whom he is always being exhorted
to study, will really be so much better off.
So far as his observation and reflection ex-
tend, he has been unable to discover that the
condition of his class is best where population
is thickest, or that the circumstances of the
masses generally are easier in a Free-trade
community than in a Protectionist one.
Indeed, as regards the influence of popula-
tion upon the condition of the labouring
class, observation teaches him quite the
contrary. It is a matter within his own
knowledge that the denser the population
of a oountry the severer is the struggle for
subsistence; and, moreover, he perceives
that it makes no material difference to his
class which economical system prevails—
Protection or Free-trade. He has observed
Great Britain accumulate vast wealth under
a Free-trade regime, but lie has noticed that
the United States have simultaneously grown
immensely rich while working on the Pro-
tectionist plan. And, what is most striking
to him, is the plain fact that in neither case
has the condition of the actual workers
been appreciably bettered by the general
enrichment of the countries they live and
labour in.
The affair becomes altogether too involved
ard abstract for the average labourer or
artizan to work out for himself. He finds
himself in the mystified condition of Stephen
Blackpool : “ It’s a’ a muddle.” The whole
subject presents a bewildering jungle of
tangled arguments. No wonder the ordinary
man “gives it up,” and confines his attention
to the plain fact under his nose—that he is
better off, his children are better clothed and
better educated, and things generally are far
easier for him when he has few competitors,
and when he can cajole or compel people to
pay him high wages for making, locally,
goods which they can get cheaper and better
abroad from people who pay low wages.
This is genuine common sense, aud perfectly
natural self-care. Did we belong to the
mechanical class, we would decidedly oppose
MR. J. M. MACROSSAN, EX-MINISTER FOR WORKS, QUEENSLAND
the introduction of assisted immigrants
And were we iron-workers, we should most
determinedly go in for protection to native
industry, and probably believe in it. A man
does not need to be a fool to believe in that
view of a subject which suits his own interest:
he need only be something short of a philo-
sopher. There are excellent and convincing
arguments for everything; and if a man but
cultivate the habit of studying one side of
a question and slighting the other, it is easy
for him to convince himself of the vital
truth of anything which is agreeable to him.
Just as it is obvious, if narrow, wisdom for
an artizan to oppose immigration, and for
an ronworker to object to importations and
free-trade (in iron), so it is obvious wisdom
for a farmer, squatter, selector of any sort,
and merchant to be keenly sensible to the
advantages of immigration and to the bene-
fits of Free-trade. To employers of labour,
immigration means wider choice of hands
and a tendency to cheaper wages, coupled
with greater docility. And the mercantile
classes, as a matter of course, find their pros-
perity proportionate to the enlargement or
restriction of commercial interchange. These
are the olasses who understand —because it
suits them—the grand abstract advantages
of “building up a great nation,” and the
sound policy of unhampered interchange.
* * *
Regarding these matters in such fashion,
we certainly feel no disposition to criticise
the sagacity of the labour societies, either in
Adelaide or Sydney, when they pronounce
against immigration ; nor do we pick a quar-
rel with the Lithgow ironworkers and in-
dustrials for commanding their member,
Mr. Targett, to throw out the Government,
if the latter do not assent to a motion for
inviting tenders in the colony simultaneously
with calling for them in Europe. This sti-
pulation is, of course, an extremely innocent
one—on the surfaoe. It is generally held —
and even the ironworkers themselves scarcely
pretend to deny—that they can’t compete
with the cheap labour and vast economical
appliances of the old world, handicapped
though these are by freight charges hither.
Therefore, to call for tenders here simul-
taneously is merely a graceful compliment,
in deference to the susceptibilities of our
local craftsmen. But we don’t pay the
Bithgow men and their Sydney fuglemen the
poor compliment of pretending to believe
that they are so unpractical as to put them-
selves about concerning a mere matter of
form. We are perfectly aware that the real
intention is to do business. Let the tender
but be locally invited, and it will go hard if
at some happy (for Lithgow) moment op-
portunity cannot be found to convince a
Minister, a departmental head, or a Ministry
hanging to oflioe by the tenure of half a
dozen votes, that —for various reasons —there
will be indirect advantage to the country in
accepting a higher local tender in preference
to a lower “ foreign” tender. Half a million
sterling could thus be diverted from Europo
to Lithgow by a stroke of the pen, and could
not be subsequently snatched away. There
would be a row, no doubt. But several
years’ good times are worth a row. More-
over, rows after an accomplished event
never amount to much. Witness the row
about the unauthorised purchase of the
Wolverene, and of a country residence for
Lord Augustus Loetus.
* * *
To the Lithgow people we say encourag-
ingly, if vulgarly, “Go it!” By all means,
do the best you can for yourselves. Exercise
an enlightened selfishness. And we thus pat
you on the baok in perfect good humour,
principally because we are convinced that
you would surely “ go it ” all the same, al-
though we preached the most lucid exposi-
tions of the eoonomic heresy of your de-
signs, until our grave gaped for us. We
think you are entirely reasonable, and, from
your own point of view, quite right. And
we trust you won’t succeed; because, being
philosophical ourselves, and desiring in the
abstract the greatest good of the greatest
number, wo believe you to be working in
an injurious groove, and merely for your
own advantage, as against the general good.
But we grant you frankly that for your own
advantage you are, subject to certain limita-
tions, working rightly enough. And to
settlers, squatters, industrials of other kinds,
who will have to subsidize you if you manage
to squeeze a contract out of a tricky Minister
or shaky Cabinet, we equally say “Go it.”
We trust these will oppose your little game
with as much vigour as you pursue it. They
would be foolish if they didn’t. But the
chances are in favour of the Lithgow men,
in the long run. They know exactly
what they want. Their desire is concrete.
Whereas the objection of the rest of the
rest of the colonists is somewhat abstract.
And, in several directions, there must be a
degree of sympathetic agreement, of the
“scratch me, scratch thee” sort. It really
matters very little which way the thing
goes. The majority of the population can
afford, without feeling any pinch to speak
of, to support, by way of whim, a little com-
munity of assisted workmen at Lithgow.
The loss to the community on a half-million
contract would probably be not more than
£lOO,OOO, taking one thing with another;
and there is not a year that ten times that
amount is not made ducks and drakes
of in much more objectionable ways.
# • •
But it is worth the while of all parties—
L abour societies, Protection leagues, Lithgow
iron operatives, and settlers of all degrees—to
take notice of this: That, whichever way
such arrangements are fixed, the condition
of the labourer is not appreciably or perma-
nently bettered in the main. The particular
case of ironworkers will serve admirably for
illustration. There are Free-trade iron-
works in England, Protected ironworks in
Belgium and America. All of these have
had their fits of prosperity and depression
during many years past. Yet the condition
of the workmen has not altered. Those
works are most “prosperous” where the
workmen are worst paid. The Belgium
works are thorns in the side of the English
factories. Smart Englishmen go to Belgium


and start ironworks there in opposi-
tion to the factories in their own coun-
try, and undersell the latter; because,
their management and appliances being
equal, the Belgian workman is as effi-
cient and much cheaper. It was only
recently that Mr. Mundella, M.P., a Liberal
—almost a Radioal —member of the House of
Commons, reduoed his establishments in
England and opened big factories in Bel-
gium, with the produce of which he cheer-
fully filled the orders received by his Eng-
lish establishment. Widespread strikes in
tho American iron trades are even now
threatening, or barely averted. So that the
condition of the labourer in a “protected”
industry is not neoessarily so splendid that
any community should be called upon to
tax itself to provide that sort of happiness
for the craftsman. Ironmasters lose and
make fortunes. But whether these lose or
make, the condition of the workman knows
ho real amelioration. He is paid as little as
he will take and the employer can spare.
The men of Lithgow may abate their enthu-
siasm. Admitting that bread and butter
are worth striving for, they may as well re-
flect that that is all they will get, and that
these necessaries may be procured in other
ways. The craftsmen won’t make fortunes
out of the country. That is a stroke re-
served for their employers. If a colonial
case in point be needed, one is ready. Mr.
Brown, of Newcastle, swore he is making
much more than £20,000 per annum out of
his Minmi colliery. Yet who stiffer than he
about an extra penny a ton to the hands
who hew the coal for him ?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“ Simple and Touching.”
“ The bearing of His Majesty during the ceremony
was grave and dignified, while the attitude of the
Empress was simple and touching.”—Melbourne
Argus telegram. This is the hog’s-wash we are
treated to. The chosen Chief Magistrate of more
than fifty millions of freemen is assassinated, and
his chosen successor is sworn in in an hour, the
affairs of State suffering no interruption, The
unelected Chief Magistrate of as many millions of
serfs is murdered, and after years of delay his
unelected successor—unelected save by the graee
of God —surrounded by sixty thousand bayonets
is proclaimed Ruler of all the Russias. His wife’s
“ attitude ” on the occasion was “ simple and
touching.” A “ simple and touching ” attitude is
good. In the London Journal and Family
Her ald we often hear of high-bred ladies drawing
themselves up to their full height (4 feet.
9 inches, perhaps), and “smiling bitterly” while
throwing to the winds the unhallowed love
of Alphonse de Veue Montmorenci, who
entreats them to collar the spoons and fly
with him to sunny dimes, where they will be
secure from the prying eyes of a vulgar and
censorious world and there is no extradition treaty.
It is a little irritating, however, to find the matter-
of-fact periodical for which we pay our hard-
earned coppers eking out its columns with an
account of the “ simple and touching ” attitudes
of those azure-blooded ladies who would not touch
us insignificant people with the handles of their
fans, or who take more interest in the frills of a
morning wrapper than in the broaching of a start-
ling scientific theory or the fall of an empire. One of
the leading Melbourne pressmen, lately returned
from Europe, goes weekly over the old ground of
the virtue and refinement of Antoinette and her
attendants. He dwells on the unpitying ferocity
of her accusers and judges, but is too delicate to
even allude to the thousands of peasants who were
picked up in their miserable hovels, dying with
starvation, their mouths filled with grass and
weeds, or to the brave spirits that were crushed by
merciless torture and lifelong imprisonment, while
the ruling classes were inventing pretty turns of
speech, or bowing in the dust before ignorant and
powerful strumpets. Nothing gives the historical
student a meaner estimate of his kind than the
efforts made by “dainty” writers to condone the
aristocratic abominations by which at last nations
are maddened, when, turning on their persecutors,
they destroy innocent and guilty alike.
<«.
Sunday Lectures,
Trouble is brewing in connection with the
lectures given on Sunday in connection with the
Sir Joseph Banks Hotel and pleasure grounds at
Botany. The lessee of that establishment has, it
appears, since the amended Licensing Law, closed
his bar on Sundays, been smitten with a noble
anxiety to minister to the intellectual needs of
visitors from Sydney by means of lectures and
music, at one shilling sterling per head. Mr.
Smith’s philanthropy had, prior to a fresh direc-
tion being given it by the restrictions of the law,
taken the form of nobblers at sixpence. The case
is one, we think, with respect to which any pre-
tence of moral aspirations would be preposterous;
and we make no ceremony in assuming that the
affair is simply a dodge for making money. If
the lessee had closed his bar on Sundays
and offered to visitors instruction and music only,
while ho had the option of supplying spirits and
beer, he might have laid claim to being prompted
by a desire to foster mental culture. But, under
tho actual circumstances, to pretend that this is
his desire is simply fudge. The enterprise in hand
is readily recognizable as a form of Sunday trading-
But the difficulty comes in just here. Sunday
trading in moral lectures, with musical episodes
has been not only permitted but applauded from
time immemorial. The clergy are so fond of re-
minding their congregations that the labourer is
worthy of his hire, that the commercial aspect of
their ministrations cannot conveniently be put out
of mind to suit an unexpected contingency. It is not
possible to draw distinctions between a lecture from
a pulpit, termed a sermon, and a lecture from
a platform. Besides, in many churches there
are no pulpits, and the sermons are actually
delivered from platforms- But even.wero pulpits
the test of what distinguishes a sermon from a
lecture, it is impossible to doubt that the enterprise
of Mr. Frank Smith is quite equal to providing
his lecturer with a pulpit if necessary, and even to
investing in whatever other “ properties ” may be
requisite to invest his speculation with due legal
sanction. We should judge that he would, if put
to it, hire a parson to conduct his entertainment.
The Botany services are, therefore, likely to prove
a very hard nut for the coercive sectarians to
craok. The fact appears to be that there exists a
sufficiently large section of the publio whioh is
resolved to spend Sunday in the way it best likes,
to make evasion of any arbitrary law profitable
and easy; and those misguided persons who con-
ceive it their duty to enforce conformity to their
own methods—there is no stickler for conformity
so stiff as your “nonconformist” —will probably
have, like Giant Pope in the “ Pilgrims’ Progress,”
to bite their nails in impotent fury.
The Battle of Waterloo-G-od Bless Her!
Monday was the 68th anniversary of the Battle
of Waterloo—of the great fight in which the men
of Beer beat the men of Wine—in which solid roast
beef whacked fried frogs; just as in Egypt, the
other day, good old English roast beef and plum
pudding and Bass’s bitter trounced the blackfel-
lows and their water-melons and sherbet. We
have in Australia about 100,000 men who were at
the Battle of Waterloo, and who remember all
about it. Whenever an old man dies in the Benevo-
lent, they put him down as a Waterloo veteran;
just as, when they see a man who “ was a gentle-
man once ” staggering out of a tenth-rate “ pub-
lic,” in rags and tatters, they point to him and say,
“Do you see that man? Well, he’s the cleverest
man in Sydney. He is a Master of Arts and a
Doctor of Divinity, and he can speak eighteen
languages when he is sober.” And just as
drunkenness gets a man a reputation for ability,
so extreme old age and poverty stamps one a 3
having been at the Battle of Waterloo. Yet the
daily papers of Monday said never a word about
the glorious anniversary. And we used to think
the dailies were all run by old fossils who had been
regimental chaplains at Waterloo under Welling-
ton, at Corunna with Moore, and against Soitlt—
wasn’t it Soult ?—at Talavora. Ah, well ! Their
memories must be failing now. But it’s not too
late. Go ye, every Britisher, out to the nearest
licensed house and drink Bulldog Beer to
the illustrious memory of old Beaky Wel-
lington, who used to thrash white men, and who
wasn’t made a Baron for bombarding blackfellows.
The libel case of Hunt versus the Melbourne Age
proved a very singular one. The libel complained
of was contained in a paragraph charging the
plaintiffs with having dismissed miners working in
their claim for not having subscribed to the Irish
National League fund. The peculiarity of the
case was that although plaintiffs claimed £2OOO
damages, neither they nor defendants called any
witnesses. The paper containing the paragraph
was put before the jury, who were left to form
their own conclusions as best they might. After
two hours’ consideration, they seem to have con-
cluded that the statements were libellous, as they
brought in a verdict for plaintiffs for one farthing.
The presiding judge had either never heard of Sir
William Manning, or thought precious little of
that legal luminary, as he refused to certify for
costs, despite the solemn contention of Sir William
in the Clontarf-BuLLETiN case that he had no op-
tion but to grant costs when a verdict for any sum,
however small, was brought in.
The United Volunteer Fire Brigades of Sydney are
promoting a solemn corroboree of the citizens for
this (Thursday) evening, at the Protestant Hall,
“ to take into, consideration the advisability of the
brigades disbanding, or otherwise, owing to the
recent slanderous reports circulated through the
medium of the public press.” The circular—pre-
cious document I—convening this witenagamote is
signed “W. S. Kelly, Superintendent-General.”
We think the Volunteer Fire Brigades had
better disband at once and reform before
again presenting themselves to the public,
which is thoroughly sick of their petty burglings
and bunglings and squabblings. The great bulk
of the firemen are respectable and plucky men,
who deserve all honour for their efforts on behalf
of their fellow-citizens. But it is equally a matter
of fact that several of the brigades have on their
rollß some drunken ruffians, who would probably
cut a man’s throat just as readily as they have, to
spite rival companies, cut a hose—fellows whose
only ambition is to wear red coats, and parade the
streets with a bad band in front and a big banner
behind, and drink beer, and make a noise, and at
fires break things generally, and smash the uni-
verse rather than let another brigade get credit for
anything. All the brigades, paid and volunteer,
should be under the command of one good man.
And the sooner the Government appoints such a
man, and sees that larrikins in red coats and brass
buttons aren’t allowed to “protect” burning pro-
perty, the better.
Mr. Caswell, the Wellington Police Magis-
trate, discovered a dead man tho other day at Rose
Bay. Amongst the articles found upon him was a
clipping from the “Answers to Correspondents '
in the town and Kuntry Alfred, which was to
this effect:—“ E.T. writes us for a recipe to cure a
grey gelding which is afflicted with the foot-ball.
Take two pints of myrrh (this is without borack),
and as much bitters as a quart aloes. Mix with
this equal parts of nux vomica, pea soup, acid
phosphate, treacle, and kerosene. Add to this the
tails of three chops, and lot the whole simmer over
a cold Are for flve-and-twenty hours. Apply then,
with a fox-foot, to the horse's left eyebrow. The
above is a certain remedy for the disease of foot-
ball, and may be used with equal effect in the sad
affliction of cricket. When a horse has the yellow
glanders, use borack only. (2). E.J. asks how to
work a centrifugal pump with economy and
amusement combined. —Take the trunks of two
subscribers who have learned to play the flute
through our instructions, screw your mouth up
tight, and with your tongue plug the bung-hole.
This will also be found an excellent recipe for
Mayonnaise.” And on a piece of paper was
scrawled, “ Give Alfred my little hatchet.”
The other day there appeared in The Bul-
letin a paragraplilconcprning a tracheotomy opera- I
tion, performed at Coonamble by Dr. H. L. Cortis,
in regard to which paragraph it appears that Dr.
Creed, editor of the A. M. Gazette, subsequently
addressed to Dr. Cortis the following curt note
(we quote verbatim ) “Several members of the
profession having called the attention of tho
Editor of the Australasian Medical Gazette
to the annexed paragraph, cut from The Bulletin
of April 21, he would feel obliged by Dr. Cortis’ ex-
planation of the matter.” To which Dr. Cortis
replied (enclosing a copy of Dr. Creed’s memo) :
. . . . “As I cannot think it possible that the
editor of the A. M. G. would be guilty of such a
want of proper professional courtesy, not to say
impertinence, as to write me such a letter—without
superscription or signature —I wish to bo assured
of its authenticity before giving the explanation
asked for. —I am, sir, yours truly, Herbert L.
Cortis.” To this Dr. Cortis received no reply ;
but in the following issue of the Gazette there
appeared fifteen or twenty lines, directing atten-
tion to The Bulletin paragraph, which, it was
remarked, “ had apparently been supplied by some
injudicious friend, and is in the worst possible
professional taste. The case was an interesting
one, the operation proper and most successful in
its results, doing the operator every credit; but
still it was not the most wondei-ful operation ever
performed, as the paragraph (to the uninitiated)
seems to imply. It is comparatively frequently
done in the colony, and many cases have been
equally successful. After reading the foregoing,
Dr. Cortis wrote “To the Editor.—Sir,—ln your
issue of this month appears a paragraph headed
‘Medical Etiquette,’ and assuming that an item
which was in THfc Bulletin of April 21 was in-
serted by me, or at all events with my authority.
Now, sir, I consider that such an assumption on
your part was an insult to myself, and a piece of
gross impertinence on yours, calling for an ample
apology. I have never had any communication
with the Editor of The Bulletin, and I refer you
to him for the source of his information on the
subject in question. I shall expect to see, in your
next issue, an apology, regretting that you have
attributed to me a breach of medical etiquette,
without knowing whether or no I had been con-
cerned in the authorship of the paragraph which
you condemn. Unless I hear from you that such
an apology will appear, I shall place the matter in
the hands of my solicitor, as I consider your article
calculated to do me an injury professionally.—l
am, sir, yours, &c., H. L. Cortis.’ 1 Dr. Cortis now
informs us that, not having heard further from Dr.
Creed, ho has instructed his solicitor on the sub-
ject. We may state that our information concern-
ing- the operation (which, despite the Gazette’s
statement to the contrary, we believe to be an
extremely rare one) was derived neither from nor
through Dr. Cortis, who has never in his life
written to us, save to forward copies of the cor-
respondence from which we now publish extracts.
It is a pity that these gentlemen; should give
themselves away to the 1 awyers about a dispute
which a mutual friend could accommodate in ten
minutes. Evidently Dr. Creed has been hasty and
curt, and Dr. Cortis fiery. They had best shako
hands. It will be much cheaper, and far more
pleasant and satisfactory in the long run.
The Rater of Subscription to The Bueeetin,
are —For one year, 24s.; half-year, 12s.; quarter, 6s.
The Advertising Rates are 5s. per Inch ;
special positions in the paper Ts. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions,
15 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 25 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion.
For close confinement, want of air, seden"
tary habits and brain and nerve tire, trust in Hop
Bitters. Read.
The resignation by Sir Patrick Jennings of
his position in the Ministry has been accomplished
very quietly. No explanation has been volun-
teered. Sir Patrick simply quits. Mr. Stuart has
been unlucky. First he lost Mr. Copeland, to
secure whom he had sacrificed the support of the
Evening News. And now he parts from Sir
Patrick Jennings, and with him, no doubt, a good
deal of his hold upon Irish electors. If Mr. Stuart
could reckon upon a proportionate gain in the
opposite direction — but this is hardly worth
reckoning. Parkes is the Protestant hero, and
thus occupies a fine position. He could kiss the
Pope’s toe and no evil be thought, while if Stuart
but eats Irish stew he provokes denunciation as a
dependent on the Milesian vote. O’Connor,
M'Elhone, and Jennings, have in turn broken with
Stuart, and, so far, nobody has joined with him.
This begins to look very like a process of political
disintegration. However, Parkes is going homo.
Is it the Ageut-Geueralship trick again ?
Coughs and Colds.
THE Beet Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6s. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Oepartnut,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
c. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET,
where you can obtain for
©cL.
A
GLASS OF WHISKY,
WINE, SHERRY,
BRANDY, PORT
OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome of all Beverages.
C. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELISH WHISKY,
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely Whi-te Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS,
Market Street, Sydney,
REMEMBER THIS,
IF YOU ARE SICK.
If you are sick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature in making you well
again when all else fails. . .
If you are comparatively well, nut feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from any other of the numer-
ous diseases of the stomach or bowels,
it is your own fault if you remain ill,
for
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints. ...
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will tl nd a “Balm
in Gilead ” in the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of all coun-
tries—malarial, epidemic, bilious and in-
termittent fevers—by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimplv, or sallow
skin* bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, HOP BITTERS
will give you fair skin, rich blood, the
sweetest breath, health, and comfort.
In short, they cure ALL Diseases of.
the Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Liver,
Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
£5OO
will be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in the them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mothor or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
Hop Bitters, costing but a trifle.
Will you let them suflTer?
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And vou will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
-3 tors’ bills to pay.
GRAHA
531
George St., Sydney.
Palace of Fashion
and Art.
“ The Apparel oft proclaims the Man.”
ME. J. GRAHAM has recently returned from
a Special
BUSINESS TOUR
in the United States and Europe (London, Pans,
Berlin, &c.), and has arranged for the introduction
per each Mail Steamer of the
Newest, Costliest, and Most Fashionable
CLOTHING MATERIAL,
simultaneously with their introduction by the
fashionable Houses of London and Paris, &c.
CLOTHING is made up at the shortest notice by
the best talent in Australia and London, and exact
reproductions of London and Paris Fashions in
Art and Material guaranteed.
Ballroom and Bridal Outfits, and Evening Dress
Suits, in a style unequalled or unsurpassed.
Mr. J. Graham speaks through the Press to the
gentlemen in the most distant parts of the interior.
Prompt attention and Advice given in matters of
Dress, Style, &c., with instructions for measure-
ment, free of cost, and the best and most satisfac-
tory results guaranteed.
iKg'” For the protection of the Public, the name
GRAHAM and the figures 531 are of mammoth
dimensions—the largest on any establishment in
all Australia.
jsgr* The Fashionable World of Australia, and
the great middle class of the cities and towns as
well, are requested to continually note the an-
nouncements in this column, from
J. GRAHAM, Tailor,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
|WO THOUSAND POUNDS’ WORTH PRIZES.
£2OOO PRIZES £2OOO.
AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
SHOW OPENS
on
FRIDAY, 24th AUGUST, 1883.
ENTRIES CLOSE at 5 p.m. on WEDNESDAY,
Ist August, and must bo in the hands of the Secre-
tary on or before that date.
GRAND EXHIBITION of SHEEP, HORSES,
CATTLE, DOGS, POULTRY, &c.,
in which sections numerous and valuable
SPECIAL PRIZES
are offered.
SCHEDULES and ENTRY FORMS can be ob-
tained on application, at the offices, 247 George-
lt. W. GRIERSON, Secretary.


POLITICAL POINTS.
The Nelson Mail states that no less than
12 Inst ever the recent election at Inanga-
On the evening before the polling day
was sent from Ttnaru to be invested on Mr.
fSkefleld, every penny of which was taken up.
in Truth, says : “Asa matter
conviction is that a majority of the
of fa £“! “Je the House of Commons are Agnostics.
rtombersoi tne or that ougrht
Id *°? rt ° simply assert what I believe to be
the list of Legislative Councillors to
iP. leave of absence was granted, during the
whom^v' n the namo of Mr. John Lucas does
Bh ? r «nnear-tbe fact seeming to be that the hon.
not appoa purposely excepted. Should John
tum up noxt session, his seat will become
vacant.
THEN—WORSHIP.
ELKINGTON (to Watson): “I revere you; the best and most upright Treasurer
we ever had.”
W ATSON (to Elkington): “ I respect you; a most independent and at Representa-
tive for East Sydney.”
NOW—STRIFE.
E LEINGTON (to Watson): “You were in the swim.”
WATOSN (to Elkington): “You owed mo £6OOO all the time.
TOGETHER “Youre another.”
RIDDLE US THIS.
The reason Sir Patrick resigned,
Just you mind,
Was never for not being wanted;
But a whisper, we find,
From a bird is inclined
To say it was ’cause he wa s—haunt ed.
At the House, in the Strangers’ Gallery.
Rißing statesman speaking. “ Who is that ?” asked
a new arrival. “ That,” answered his neighbour,
“that is one of our cleverest members.” “Ah!
and where was he born ?” “ Born in this colony,
sir," was the proud reply; “ but what is your
reason for asking?” “Oh, nothing much—but,
Judging from his style of oratory, I thought he
might nave been born in a bellows.”
The Whitehall Review, the organ of the
Reman Catholic Tories chiefly, charges Mr. Glad-
stone’s Government with want of back-bone.
After reviewing home and foreign incidents, the
Review concludes : “At this hour, when the
Government of Queensland has annexed a now
country to the British dominions, the Cabinet can
speak neither approbation nor disapprobation, but
‘sits on the fence’ waiting to see how public
opinion declares itself at home.”
Had the second reading of the Affirmation
Bill been carried in the Commons, it was the in-
tention of the Opposition to tear it into tatters in
Committee. They had projected over one hundred
amendments to break it up. But, even had it
emerged from that ordeal, the House of Lords was
certain to have thrown it out. There seems to
have been a complete loss of temper and sense
about this bill. The only Atheist the law, as it
stands, can keep out of the Commons is an Atheist
who respects himself and won’t dissemble.
Mudgce Taylor has been flooding the Rum
with a lot of frothy matter about the illegal ses-
sion, written in a sort of Buchananie-after-Carlyle
fashion. We would ask him (somewhat as he
asked Mr. Speaker when that functionary was
about to rule on those points which had been
raised to show that the Criminal Law Amendment
Bill was a money bill, whether the ruling!- was his
own or Mr. Dailey’s) whether his contention in the
Rum is his own or Parkes and Co.’s ? During- the
speeial session he said quite enough on the subject.
He should now let the matter drop.
Thus a Melbourne paper“ A Deniliquin
man is getting his horse-feed from Sydney because
he can buy N.Z. oats in that market, and place them
in the centre of Riverina for less money that If he
were to operate in Melbourne. So, little by little,
the Riverina trade is going to our eastern neigh-
bours. Who made oats dearer in Melbourne than
in Sydney ? Jerry, with protective humbug. Who
placed Sydney in railway communication with
Riverina years before the connection would other-
wise have been made ? Jerry, by means of his
ridiculous stock tax. We only want a few more
Jerry's to make the grass grow in our streets.”
The London Spectator says:—“ We cannot
have New Zealand annexing Polynesia, or the South
African colonies claiming Madagascar, or the Cana-
dian Dominion making a spring at Hayti, just
because they think these possessions are necessary
or may be advantageous. The foreign policy of
this country must remain in the hands of the cen-
tral authority, if England is to remain responsible
for the external safety of her colonies; and foreign
policy is Impossible if we are to be burdened with
new possessions acquired without any volition of
our own, or in opposition to the will or Parliament.
Moreover, Queensland is not the colony to bo
trusted with a vast island, at least as large as Franoe,
with a black population of which we know little,
but which certainly exceeds half a million.”
* * *
The Saturday Review thinks it would be
cowardly for the Imperial Government to refuse
the request of the colonics to aqnex the Now
Hebrides, &c Sir George Wigram Allen demon-
strated his sulkiness at Barton being" set in the
place he thought his, by a bare score of f our atten-
dances during last session. FarnelTs score during
same session was 28 divisions in the House, 84 in
committee, and 1 count out. If Allen were counted
out ’twouldn’t be a bad .job; but then he s oa-
ncvi'ptus Glebce .. .If the MTlwraith Administration
in Queensland Tie defeated on the Transcontinental
or any other question, it will be entitled to a dis-
solution....” Nothing,” writes the Sydney corres-
pondent of the Tam worth News, “would disturb
the teetotallers’ veneration for the author of the
‘wooden leg’ epigram, unless perhaps they saw him
standing at the bar of his brother C.M.G.—Ttoberts
—quailing the oak.” R. Burdett Smith, Esq.,
M.L.A., the Cupid of the Macleay, is about to make
another triumphal march through his electorate.
By the way, the secretary of the Post-office asks
Burdett to suggest a name for the now post-office
at Euroka, as there is already one Euroka p.o. near
Liamore. Call it Smith, Burdett —call it Smith.
There are two towns called Parkes—and why
shouldn’t there bo one called Smith ? D’ye hear ?
* * *
John Bright says that Parliamentary re-
form is impossible while property is unduly repre-
sented... .England has ceased diplomatic relations
with Bulgaria .MM. Gr*svy and Ferry don’t
want to annex Tonquin. Challemel-Lacour will,
therefore, possibly resign his portfolio for French
Foreign affairs Wright’s, Dibbs’ and Loftus’
figures of speech at Albury smelt strongly of the
Blue 800 k... .Granville offers to mediate between
France and Madagascar Bechuana territory to
be annexed in all probability to Cape Colony
Home Government mean to send an envoy to the
Transvaal to negotiate for a revision of the con-
vention recently concluded with the Boers in the
direction of yielding to Boer claims. Jingoism
naturally thinks this a great 80-er Earl Spencer
sick of Ireland. Ireland reciprocates lingo
victory with regard to Affirmation Bill more than
balanced by Jingo defeat with regard to Deceased
Wife’s Sister Bill. ► .The expense of sending- the
Duke of Edinburgh to attend the coronation of
the Czar is stated to have been £12,000. Liberal
members of the House of Commons are expected
to challenge this expenditure. But it has already
been incurred without Parliamentary authority.
.... A determined attempt is to be made to recon-
cile the natives of India to British rule by translat-
ing- the National Anthem, “ God Save the Queen,”
into Hindostani dialects. This ought to do it
Derby says England is prepared to resume the
Govex-nment of Basutoland on certain conditions.
.... Commercial treaty between England and Italy
signed on 14th The King of Annam has appli^
to China for help against the French. China massr
ing troops at Shanghai. France announces she
will give no quarter to Chinese troops aiding the
Annamese. Chinese navy at present consists of
two frigates, one corvette, forty-eight gunboats,
two steam sloops, three transports, and one
steamer, making a total of 283 guns, and 5860 men.
Nine of the gunboats are ironclad, carrying either
2’ft-tou or 38-ton guns worked by hydraulio power.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
The Earl of Shrewsbury, we see, has
started in London as a cab proprietor. He wishes
to improve the style of the metropolitan vehicular
traffic. His cabs are drawn by fine, upstanding,
half-bred horses, and the idea is generally regarded
as a cab-ital one. By the way, talking of the Earl
reminds us that there is another rumour that the
Countess but, after all, this interesting whisper
has nothing to do with cabs, though it certainly
may be considered, to some extent, to concern his
lordship.
What giddy old boys these princes are!
It was only, so to speak, yesterday that we learned
Prince Gortschakoif died in questionable quarters
at Baden; and now we are told that Princeßatthy-
any, who fell dead on the Newmarket racecourse,
has left the bulk of his property to his mistress.
He wasBB. The will is about to be contested; but
we shouldn’t wonder if the law courts considered
the lady, under these circumstances, to be entitled
to at least the bulk of the property. Should, how-
ever, the Prince’s relatives nave a jury of four,
and retain all the kin [Phew! Assez!— Ed. B.]
The rise of the fortunes of Sir William
Chambers from a stall on Leith walk, with a little
borrowed stock of stationery as a beginning, re-
minds one of the similar rise of our bookselling
and publishing magnate of Australia. In 1A52 he
had a stall on the wharf facing a certain Custom-
house, and his stock of books, bought from immi-
grants leaving the ships, was contained in a single
trunk only. Now his warehouses are to be seen in
three capitals of the three leading Australian
colonies. George Robertson is indicated.
Herbert Grenside, who lately perished in
the bush in the Northern colony, was the carefully-
reared son of an English rector. He was a brilliant
young fellow, but weak, and roughed it consider-
ably after his arrival in Queensland. Subsequently,
being taken up by Mr. Gold-Commissioner Char-
ters, he was appointed mining registrar and C.P.S.
on the field named after that gentleman, and con-
ducted himself with propriety until “the inevit-
able woman” came along. She died raving mad ;
he, after much misery, as already recorded.
Frederiok Marshall paid his last visit to the
doctor on 2nd May, and played Tom in “ Good-for-
Nothing ” on the sth for Frank Emery’s benefit at
the Prince of Wales, Liverpool. Marshall is just
now living in an old country house six miles from
Skipton, in the Yorkshire hills. There is plenty of
land and a rookery attached to the place, and the
small-great comedian has beoome quite an expert
at potting young birds for the family pie. Despise
him not for this! All men have their weaknesses;
and if Frederiok returns hither with a good com-
pany and new pieces, much may be forgiven him.
Mr. Justice Ford North, one of the newly
appointed English Judges, has distinguished him-
self by his severity and straining of the law in the
recent prosecutions for blasphemy. Apropos of
his Lordship, the following story is textually true:
—A man was tried for some crime of violence.
During his summing up, Mr. Justice North ob-
served: “The counsel for the prosecution has
omitted calling attention to one point which tells
seriously upon the prisoner. I have it down in evi-
dence, that after the crime had been committed he
said, when dressing, * reach me down my bloody
waistcoat.’ It therefore, that there was
blood on his clothes. Whence could it have come ?”
What a man of the world Mr. Justice North must
be!
The cause of the recent sudden and serious
illness of President Arthur was (we quote from
G alio nani) a surfeit of a famous American
delicacy—“ Savannah shrimp salad.” Before the
reception in the Savannah City Exchange, he took
a long drive in the hot sun, and in an open carriage,
to attend a rifle-shooting contest. His friends fur-
nished a tempting lunch, and one of the best dishes
served was a “ Savannah shrimp salad,” of which
agreeable pldt the President partook very liberally.
At 2.30 next morning, on board the Tallapoosa, he
was taken alarmingly ill. Thus the President of
the American Republic came near sharing an
analogous fate to that of Henry 1., who died seven
hundred and fifty years ago from eating too plen-
tifully of lampreys—not to mention the Instance of
M. Thiers, who nearly killed himself by excessive
indulgence in “ caviare.”
Herbert Spencer is said to be so punctual
that the ladies in the boarding-house he stays at
set their watches by his comings and goings. All
these transcendental sages are punctual at hash
time. With all their etherealism they are never too
ethereal to eat. Herbert is formidable in philo-
sophy but terrific in hiding tripe. The landlady of
his boarding-house very probably never read a
line of his works, yet she stands in awe of him—in
awe of hisappetite. And, speaking of philosophers
and hash, Schopenhauer, the Founder or the
Pessimist school, was a colossal trencherman. One
day he was dining at a restaurant. At the table
next him were three English gentlemen. They
could not help noticing that he ate twice as fast as
any ordinary human being, and took twice as long
over his dinner. Seeing them staring at him, he
snarled out: “I suppose you wonder why I eat
three times as much as you ? Well, I eat three
times as much as you because I have three times as
much brains.”
No member of the Royal Family has had so
many narrow escapes as H.R.H. the Princess
Louise. Only so recently as the 26th of April she
escaped being burned to death in her bed at Ingle-
wood House, Bermuda, where she was the guest of
Mr. Trimmingham. The immediate cause of the
lire was a beam in the chimney which became ig-
nited, and the Princess awoke at midnight to find
her room full of smoke and herself half asphyxi-
ated. Perhaps, however, the most untoward acci-
dent which has happened to her has been Lome.
A propox of this gentle (not to say feeble) youth,
the serious proposition to confer on him the Vice-
royalt.y of India, at such a threatening crisis as the
present in the affairs of that vast empire, in pre-
ference to a tried and trusted proconsul like the
Earl Dufferin, is enough to bring tears to the
eyes of a cast-iron dog—as Mark Twain has
it. It is not, however, probable that the Prime
Minister, who is not amenable to Court mesmerism,
will be a party to any such an egregious job.
Amongst the old identities of Brisbane (Q.)
was Daddy Dinsdale, who in an evil moment for
himself pulled down some shops alongside his hotel
in Ed ward-street and built the Alexandra Theatre,
where many of the present stock actors first
emerged from the ranks of the amateur. Even a
great Sydney literary light disdained not to rank
among the “perfesh,” and amazed the Bananaese
by showing them Amina in the burlesque of “ La
Sonnambula” doing the sleep-walking business in
a night shirt and spectacles. Poor old Dinsdale had
some peculiar notions of social equality, and one of
his pet projects was barricading off the members
of the demi-monde (between the front seats and
the gods) from the rest of the audience, and woe
to the unlucky erring one who managed to elude
the privacy of the “ canary pen ” if spotted by Dad
—for, even in the most blood-curdling portion of
the drama, a struggle would be heard in the hall,
and a stout old gentleman observed scruffing forth
a bundle of foul language and millinery.
Mitchell Henry, whose letter to the Times
is reprinted in the Echo of Wednesday, is member
for Galway, and one of the wealthiest men in Man-
chester and London. He is senior partner in the
firm of A. and 8. Henry, one of the most famous
shipping houses in the mercantile world ; and,
again, he is a distinguished professional man, being
some time surgeon to and lecturer on Medical
Jurisprudence at the Middlesex Hospital. Above
all, he is a Home Ruler (ye gods!), and a moderate
man in his political views and pretentions! Well,
Mitchell has been writing a letter to the Times on
that original and obscure scientific subject, the
wrongs of Ireland. He says—and a man who has
swallowed up an Irish bog, and built a castle on
top, surely ought to know—that the evils of Ire-
land are social, and not political; that by taxation
alone the Irish people are swindled out of two to
three millions a year; and that during the past
three years Ireland lias contributed two millions
and a quarter towards paying off the National
Delpt. This sum (as well as the six millions “ter-
minable annuities,” falling due in 1885) he proposes
to capitalise and expend on the development of
Ireland, laying it out judiciously in railways, har-
bours, and drainage;—and then, Oye long suffering
Irish legislators, the world will go on wheels before
you I It is all a matter of readjustment of taxa-
tion, and 3lmple finance, in which latter we have it
on the authority of Henry J. Byron, that scruples
are of no use.
A retired member of the Irish constabulary
has just recovered £4OO damages for the seduction
of his wife by the “ Honorable ” R. R. Wingfield,
a member of the Powerscourt family, one of the
oldest and most distinguished in Ireland. The
constable had not read his “Pickwick” well, and
married a remarkably handsome young widow, for
whom through influence he obtained a domestic
appointment in Dublin Castle of £lOO a vear. She
was a housekeeper in the department of Mr. Wing-
field, a senior official; but the birth of a child, the
attentive kindness of Mr. Wingfield, and the “tittle
tattle ” of the neighbours aroused the constable’s
suspicions, notwithstanding that the suspected
gay Lothario ” was a man of sixty, married, and
father of a large family. The discovery, when his
wife was at the sea-side, subsequent to the interest-
ing event, of a package of affectionate letters from
Loving Dick,” in the handwriting of the plaintiff,
clinched the whole thing. We sympathise deeply
with the “ Honorable and Loving Dick,” and
think the action taken by the constable shows a
wanton disregard of an important injunction in
the Church Catechism, “toorder ourselves humbly
and reverently before all our betters."
A favourite freak of the late Jaeky Dow
was to set men turning a grindstone, when they
asked him for work; and when he felt specially
humorous, he’d ask them to oblige him by turn-
ing it first twelve times one way round, and then
twelve times the other. They generally thirsted
for lus blood before they’d been at it half a day.
Jacky didn’t reap any material benefit from the
eccentric performances which he so often set as a
task for sundowners. We can only suppose he did
it—as the luminous parsons sav Providence sends
us all sorts of disagreeable things—“as a trial.”
Without giving Providence credit for such an in-
genious method of finding out men’s characters,
we suppose this was Jacky Dow’s reason, and that
when, after a trial, he found a man faithful over a
MISTRESS (to new nurse, who went out to give baby an airing): “Why, Maria! that is
not our child What, what have you done with my little Harry.”
NURSE: “Why, you see missus, I jest left Arry out on the pavement while I went in to
a eonfeetioner’s to buy some lollies, when a runaway om bus come along, and
I rushsd out an’ grabbed the first young one as I laid my ands on. If this
ain’t arry, I don’t know where he is, and that’s a fact.”
(But dry the starting tear, fair reader, the matter was righted in a few days through
judicious advertising.)
few things, such as turning a grindstone, or swing-
ing a gate, he’d make him ruler over a flock of
sheep. We repeat, it couldn’t have been for the
sake of the work done, because one day a Yankee,
who was told off to the grindstone biz., rigged up a
contrivance of rope so as he could turn tne stone
while he lay in tne bunk in the men's hut and
read a novel at the same time; and when
Dow found it out, he sacked him. He said that he
didn’t want any blanked newfangled notions intro-
duced on his station. Here’s another yarn of the
old diplomatist of “fat mutton” fame. One day
a whaler came up, with the usual orthodox query,
“ Any chance of a job, sir ?” “ Hum,” said Jacky,
“ can you run, my man ? ” The “ dust-inspector ”
admitted it was not exactly in his line, but said he
could do a little if necessary. “ Let’s see: now you
go.” He was about to unship his drum, but Jacky
continued “ No, no; take that with you. ” The man
started, and, when he’d got forty yards, enquired
“How’s that?” “Let’s see you a little further,”
replied Mr. Dow; “go straight through the gate,
and keep on, and,” shouted he with grim pleasantry,
as the man trotted away in the distance, “you
needn’t come back!”
Mr. Gladstone paralysed the House of
Commons lately by coming in one night dressed in
a Parisian-cut evening suit, high-heeled patent-
leather shoes, and sky-blue silk stockings, with
gold clocks. The “ grand old man ” is getting quite
gay in his old age. He always dressed well, though
he had never any of the dandyism of Disraeli. The
writer of this paragraph remembers standing on
the platform at the Plymouth railway-station one
evening, just as the London train was coming in.
There were few others about. The train came in,
a carriage-door opened, and an elderly gentleman
sprang out and shook hands warmly with the
modest narrator of this incident. We looked at
him in surprise for a second. Then we recognised
the face caricatured in so many cartoons: a clear,
thoughtful face, with deep lines, rather fresh-
looking but thin, as though everything animal
had been refined away. He had on a light drab
overcoat with a geranium in the button-hole, and
looked altogether as if he had walked out of a
show-window. This is a vulgar figure, but it will
have to do now. It did not take an inspired genius
to guess that this was Mr. Gladstone, nor to con-
clude that he had come down in connection with
the political campaign then on foot, nor to further
deduce that there was a deputation waiting for
him which had not turned up in time, and that he
had mistaken us for one of them. The deputation
just then sailed up, and we left, after promising
to run up to Hawarden and stay with him a week
or two during the recess and give him some
suggestions as to a plan of action. We have never
forgiven ourselves for not having made use of
this invitation. Who knows what might have
happened if we had kept the appointment? Fie
might have had us arrested on suspicion of trying
to steal his spoons. You can never be sure of great
men. They are always crotchetty.
Ten years ago, th« name of Joseph Arch
was noted in England. He is a man who rose from
absolute zero in the social scale, to become a
famous agitator, and a candidate for Parliament.
Arch must be a man of exceptional ability, and of
wonderful energy. He started in life with every
conceivable drawback; the son of a common
labourer, he began to work for his living as a
bird-scarer at the age of nine, for fourpence a
day. From early dawn to dark, in all weathers,
pinched with cold and drenched with rain, he
earned his salary. A crossing-sweeper was a king
to him. Then he became ploughman teamster
(at nine shillings a week), and finally jobbing la-
bourer on farms. He married a domestic servant,
and chiefly under her pressure carried on the her-
culean task of self-education. He travelled from
place to place, working as grave-digger, wood-
cutter, hedger and ditcher, barely keeping the
wolf from the door; and when away from home,
flinching from no privation in order that his wife
and children should feel as little as possible the
stings of want. It was in this school of bitter
hardship his eyes were opened to see that
the agricultural labourers of England were little
higher than brute animals, and often treated
worse; and from that time he set himself, tooth
and nail, to the task of alleviating their condition.
He became Joseph Arch, the Agitator, urging his
fellow-men no longer “to cringe and crouch to
squiredom.” But the man whose own life had
been such an indomitable, noble struggle upwards,
was »ot successful as a leader of men. He evoked
enthusiasm, but could not rightly direct it; his
universal invective included alike those who did
and those who did not deserve it; his own experi-
ence had made him bitter, and he was not always
fair. Lacking the qualities of a great leader, he
has failed to become great. Lifted into a higher
sphere—wearing broadcloth and dining with mem-
bers of Parliament—he does not shine as brightly
as he did in a lower. Having withstood the hardest
storms of adversity, he seems to have weakened
under the genial sunshine of prosperity. But his
early life is to his eternal credit. Arch is now a
candidate for Parliament, with a good chance of
election, and it remains to be seen how he will
acquit himself.
The controversy about thepictureof Chloe
is still raging in Melbourne. We never knew be-
fore what a lot of moral people there are over there.
What strikes us as mildly peculiar, however, is
that a large proportion of the offenders against
morality, convicted every year, comes from the
very class which is howling against the indecency
of exposing nude pictures in a public gallery. We
mean Sunday-school teachers, and the liko. Per-
haps this is tne reason for their wishing the picture
removed. If it be true that “to the pure all things
are pure,” what an impure lot they must be!
Everybody who visited the Exhibition here must
remember the picture in question. There is not,
except to the coarsest mind, even the suggestion
of immodesty in it. It is a piece of clean art. The
idea of it is taken from a poem of Andru Chenier,
entitled “Mnazileet Chloe.” We give an original
translation :
MNAZILUS AND CHLOE.
Chloe :
“ O flower-strewn borders! O tall reeds blowing,
In rythmic tune to the water flowing!
Oh, tell me is Mnazilus near your glades?
Often he comes to your 'peaceful shades,
And often I wish that the wandering air
Would bring me a message when he is there.”
Mnazilus.
“O stream! the mother of flowers, you hold
This scented dell in your girdling fold;
Why do you not bring to your winding thrall
Chloe, the daintiest flower of all ?”
Chloe:
“ If he but knew that I came to dream
Of love, and of him beside the stream!
Oh, if a glance or a tender smile
Could make him tarry a little while!”
Mnazilus:
“ Oh, if some kind god would breathe a word
Of the thoughts with which my heart is stirred)
Then dare I pray her, when she was near me,
To let me love her, at least to hear me!”
Chloe:
“Oh joy, ’tis he!—he speaks—l tremble—
Be quiet, O lips! O eyes, dissemble!”
Mnazilus :
“ The foliage rustled—methought I heard—
’Tis she! O eyes, say never a word!”
Chloe:
“ What, Mnazilus here ? how strange to meet
With you in this lonely green retreat.”
Mnazilus :
“ Alone I lay in the shady grass.
And never expected a soul to pass.”
The lines italicised are inscribed, in French, at the
bottom of the picture. Andr<s Chenier perished in
the last awful days of the Reign of Terror. His
was one of the strangest figures in a time when
common men were the exception. A new age,
baptised in blood and fire, had dawned upon the
world. New thoughts were bursting through the
minds of men. Then, surely, was the day for the
singing of new songs. But this poet, born out of
due time,” turned back wearily to the days of old
Greece, aud caught, in a language which the One,
Free, and Indivisible Republic was making bloody
with strange names for stranger ways of death,
some of the echoes of that sweet melody which
thrilled through the heart of Hellas in the days of
Theocritus. An odour, as of old-world violets,
perfumes his idyls. This was the man, who, when
on his way to the guillotine, struck his forehead
and cried “To die! to die! and yet I had something
here,”—which most of those have not who object
to Leftvre’s illustration of his poem.
• • •
Thadeus O’Kane remarks that his paper,
“ the Northern Miner, was the first to advocate
the establishment of a Municipal Council, a Divi-
sional Board, and a Circuit Court here. The first
two have been turned into boyeotting machines,
and the last into a crushing mill.” .Mr. George
Miller is acting Under-Secretary for Education
vice Mr. Wilkins, whose ill health necessitates six
months’ leave Dr. Moran, who practised at
Roma for several years, and was well known in
Queensland, died at Normanton on 17th ultimo, of
paralysis, aged 41. Years ago, the doctor was a dash-
ing steeplechase rider. .Though the will of the late
Mr. Robert Clark (M.L.A. for Sandhurst, to whose
seat Mr. Angus Mackay has succeeded) was sworn
under £5OOO, it is now known that this property
only exists on paper, and is practically the property
of the Sandhurst banks. Mr. Clark’s family are
almost destitute, and the result of the appeal made
to the public has been very discouraging Mr.
James Murphy died last week aged 82. In 1800 he was
Mayor of Sydney Charles Bright has been elected
hon. sec. of the Liberal Association of N.S. Wales.
... Mr. Hubert Dillon, P.M. of Walgett, has ap-
peared in a new capacity. Last week he preached
“ an impressive sermon, which was largely attended
by all denominations.”... A “Christinas Hymn,”
by Mr. Alfred Domett, of N.Z., has been chosen as
the subject for the prize illustrations, to bo given
in Harper’s Magazine for December. 1883
Morgan Lee, Ballarat mining pioneer, died on Sun-
day — The death of Harris Levi Nelson, ex-mem-
ber for Orange, is announced at the early age of
49. He wasagrand “local ” representative, having
highly cultivated the art of getting at Ministers
Serious charges were preferred, some weeks ago,
againstafar Western coroner—drunkenness, fight-
ing, and so on; —up to the present the Minister of
Justice has made no sign. Why? Thomas
Cowper, formerly P.M. at Tenterfleld, brother of
the late Sir Charles and Dean Cowper, died last
Friday at Grafton, aged 84. He had a great con-
tempt, which he ever freely expressed, for the
slipperiness of his brother, the politician. We are
very sorry to hear that he didn’t much admire his
brother, the Dean—Mr. Alex Galt, the “Black
Wednesdayed ” Secretary of the Victorian Public
Works Department, is dead, aged 67... General Sir
Frederic Paul Haines, G. 0.8., G.C.S.T., C.I.E.
colonel-in-chief of the Royal Munster Fusiliers,
late commander-in-chief of the Forces in India, is
now on a visit to these colonies. On the formation
of the army of the Sutlej, Fred. Haines was ap-
pointed military secretary to Gough, and in that
capacity he served at Moodkee, Ferozeshah, and
during the whole of the Punjaub campaign of
'4B-’49 (being present atßannuggur, the Chenaub,
Chillianwallah, and Goojerat). With the 21st
Fusiliers he served during the earlier operations of
the Crimean War, being present at the battles of
the Alma, Balaklava and Inkermann.
•
According to a London paper, the two
new peers, Lord Alcester and Lord Wolseley, have
been nick-named Bombard and Bombast The
Rev. Josiah Howson (Mrs. Stowes’ Uncle Tom) died
In Ontario last May, aged 94. Next to the redoubt-
able John Brown, whose soul has now marched on
a million miles two laps, we think Uncle Tom has
done more to spread a knowledge of the Ameri-
cans than all the books ever written. How we
have cried over that nigger! A few more tears
can make no difference now. Two turns of the
tap, boy. Now the onion. But wo can’t grind out
any poetry.... Eldest son of Jcssel, late Master of
the Rolls, has accepted a Baronetcy from the grand
old man, as a mark of respect to his father’s
memory—The Whitehall Review states that
“at the unveiling of the Heaconsfield statue (last
month), Sir Samuel Wilson gate, to Mr. and Mrs,
Disraeli a few primroses which he had himself
gathered that morning from the grave at Hughon-
den, where the yellow flowers have never for a
single day been suffered to disappear since Lord
Beaconsfleld was buried there,” Ah! Sir Salmon
always was a very sentimental man. But no other
newspaper in the world would have the impudence
to state that he could not make primroses grow
every day in the year. .The fortunate successor to
John Brown, in his quasi-official post, is Francis
Clark, who has been for several years one of Her
Majesty’s “ Highland servants,” and was born and
bred at Balmoral. J.B. has left no diary of any
description, and the amount of his property has
been absurdly over-estimated . Some years' back
when “Edinburgh” commanded a corvette “of
the Straits” a F.O. Excellency dined with H.R.
Highness. “Your beer is good,” said the am-
bassador. Next day a marine arrived at the em-
bassy with six dozen of beer, A little later the
Minister, dining again with the Duke, praised the
mutton. “ I have plenty of sheep on board,” said
the host; “ I’ll send you one in the morning,”
which he did. When the time came for the Duke
to depart, his equerry, looking rather sheepish, pre-
sented the ambassador wirh a little bill for the beer
and the mutton. The Minister, who had his wits
about him, having corrected an error of Is. 6d. in
the addition, duly discharged the debt. This ap-
pears in the S. M. Herald, and apart from being
frightfully treasonable, is probably a lie.
Dr. STANICH, Aurist (by appointment) to
His Excellency the Governor of New South Wales,
may be consulted on the Eye, Ear, and Throat
Diseases, at 60 WYNYARD SQUARE, S YDNEY.
A FADED ROSE.
She was a white rose, last of all the roses,
The faded rose of which we sadly sing;
As bright a rose as any rose that biows is—
As fair a flower as any flower of Spring.
All men passed by her heedless and uncaring,
And no man stooped to pluck her from her
stem;
For though their eyes might own her blossom-
bearing,
That bore no bloom which bore no gold for
them.
Till turned the sweet to sour, the white to yellow.
Now bloom and blossom are for ever fled—
And all the broken words we said were “ Hello,
Our maiden aunt, Maria Jane , is dead!”


JOKING WITH “JO.”
You all know the corner. Of course you
do. And the little door that is never all open and
hardly ever (excuse us !) quite shut. Rather. And
what a study that corner is ! And what a veil of
mystery enshrouds that office. Not to us ! With
a consciousness of subline modesty that is beauti-
fully defined, we may at once state that there are
few metropolitan mysteries that are mysterious to
us • few Sydney secrets that to us are secret.
There is a sublimity about this statement which
we know will be “read” and “ marked”—and
which we trust will be carefully “digested.”
* * *
A wonderful office that. “We should
gay !” An office in which, at somewhat distant
intervals, a fresh-coloured gentleman, with a black
moustache, paralyses “pros.” with a glance;
crushes coryphees with a frown. He has clean-cut
features, this gentleman, and a superior smile.
His costume is immaculate; and he has got so
much money that he can afford to do as we do —
wear no diamonds. Who is it? But you have
guessed long ago. Who but John Stofel I Now,
even if you had not divined, you will clutch it.
None other than J. C. Williamson, who, despite
his smile, which is “ childlike and bland,” is only
bland. There is nothing of the child about him, so
far as we know. Anyhow, we have never seen him
gambol. When he gambols before us we shall
perhaps begin to believe in his childishness. Not
before. [What s this all about ?— Ed. B.]
• • *
You shall have it clothed in a poetic garb.
Noon. A golden glamour of sunshine. That is
nature. And a bellicose cabman. That is natural.
A cabman with an argumentative mind and
an eye that has a fixed and stony glare. As
our experience of hash has been vast, so has
our experience of cabmen been terrific. We
have driven to church, or elsewhere (but
chiefly to church) in nearly every cab in
Sydney. This has laid the foundation of a sad
experience. When we were poor and patronised
the humble ’bus, and helped to swell the receipts of
the tram of democracy, there was simmering in
our soul the shadow of a belief in the honesty of
mankind. There is no such feeling left now. We
• have grown jaundiced through Jehus. We don’t
so much mind the man who shoves an hour on to
the complement, nor the driver who charges 7s. 6d.
for any distance; but what we distinctly object to
is the unhanged ruffian who, when asked what his
fare is, “ leaves it to yourself.” We don’t care, as
a rule, to dispute about trifles. The plan we have
laid down is when anybody wants anything, to kill
them. We caught this idea from a clergyman.
Being at one time poor, we called on a minister of
the Gospel and requested assistance. But he didn’t
kill us, now we think of it. That was because he
was not strong enough. And we may mention, to
conclude the par., that the reason we didn’t kill the
cabman was that he was too high up.
* * *
The office of the Theatre Royal. A little
prematurely bald gentleman sitting, as it were, in
his counting-house counting out his money. A
notable gentleman this, the time-honoured
treasurer. A world of associations in that
small office:—of Pomeroy, and her faithful
Josh, waiting to hand her into her jingling chariot,
drawn by two ghostly greys; of Maggie Moore
tripping through after the show to horrible
fatality!—the same phantom landau. Let us laugh.
We will tell you a secret about that carriage. One
night, when “ The Mascotte ” was in full swing, we
bribed a person to bet the man who presided over
that equipage ten shillings that he dare not get
down. We had tracked him to his lair on the day
previous, and had observed that he had a large cir-
cular patch—well, no matter where. Anyhow,when
he did anything else but sit down, the plot was ex-
ploded. He didn’t; and we have reason to believe
Mrs. W. very properly rewarded him for his chival-
rous devotion to the Standard of appearances. This
surmise is based on a rumour that, ever since this
event, he has been going for his beer with a
majolica pitcher. Associations!—yes. And merry
memories I—a few. Bend down, now. This in a
whisper. We have seen Arthur Garner drink
champagne there, and Jim Allison write a
letter I We have beheld in that office genuine
Graces drink genuine geneva, and have been
drearily disillusioned by observing the quan-
tity of anchovy-sandwiches a star actress
could hide away. “ Stars!” You can wager! A
constellation of them. A crowd —to quote Polonius
—“comical, pastoral, pastoral-historical, tragical-
historical, tragical-comical-historical,” and several
others. We don’t see much of a joke in this, by
the way, but we quote it because it’s classical.
And this reminds us that, despite the sublimity of
his poetry, Shakespeare would nearly always
write a yard of blank in order to introduce the
blankest joke. That was his weakness. Our’s is
well, warm, with a little sugar.
* * *
It wasn’t much. Something seated on a
chair with bleached hair and dancing eyes. The
brightest little picture ever seen. “Jo.” We don’t
know how she came there. Riding on a sun-mote
through the key-hole probably. Or floated in at
ttiQ door between the wings of a mosquito. She
was small enough, almost, for either of these
modes of advent. And so compact. A model.
Our conversation with Miss Jennie Lee began with
the brilliant flight “ How are you ?” to which she
replied with the Talleyrandish period of “Quite
well, thank you.” Then we detected her looking
at our boots, and knew she was wondering why we
were wearing snow-shoes on a sunshiny morning.
* * *
Here is the picture, sketched from life.
A black satin dress elaborately brocaded, and made
just short enough to display a gorgeous quantity
of shoe of a surpassing symmetry. And how about
a seal-skin cape, and seventy-nine-button suede
gloves, and a handkerchief freighted with Frangi-
panni ! And let us tell you, too, about a bonnet
that looked like a hat and was a bonnet all the
tune, and about the daintiest jewels you ever saw
out of Tiffany’si After being covered with con-
fusion fer some moments, we said, “There
is a question regarding you, Miss Lee, which
is agitating several continents.” “ Oh, about
my reading of the character of Jo,” she
said. “No,” we replied meekly ; “about the size
of your foot. What number do you take —nine-
teens or twenties.” “Thirty-fives, since I culti-
vated a bunion,” she replied, smiling sweetly, and
showing of orient pearls a double seam.—[Humph!
—Ed. B.] “ We are given to understand/’ we pro-
ceeded, rather huskily, “ that you are a theatrical
—a play-actor ?” “ That impression would appear
to have got about,” she said, fingering an ebony
ruler. Letting, for certain reasons, this topic fall,
with a crash, we said —“You are married, we
believe, Miss Lee.” “lam twice married,” she
rejoined, calmly. At this we started in horror.
Associations were conjured up here of a different
kind. Twice married. “Twice laid.” Hash!
• • *
Our chief objection to Miss Jennie Lee is
that she is Mrs. J. P. Burnett. But we owe her, in
addition to this, a vendetta of a Corsican character.
At an early stage of our interview, just as we
fancied we were making an impression, if not on
account of our appearance, at least on the score of
our talents, she delivered into our hands a huge
printed document, written by Mr. J. P. Burnett
(as we are told), and headed with Miss Lee’s
musical “ monniker.” This handbill told us
nothing about Jennie that we didn’t know ;
but some other information in it paralysed us.
This, for instance: “ To the story of ‘Jo,’ thewhole
action of the drama is subordinated; Mr. Guppy’s
advances to Esther, the murder, Mr. Tuckinghorn
(sic), the disappearance and death of Lady Deadlock
(sic), the arrest of Hortense, and the other incidents
of the novel which are introduced, all seem to
increase the interest in the central figure, Jo.”
This is gorgeously great, and we take this oppor-
tunity of congratulating Mr. Burnett upon the
facility he displays in the reading of his revises.
We shall love Mr. “ Tuckinghorn ” to our dying day
—when we find him.
* * *
Though we must plead guilty to a superior
sparkle journalistic, we don’t consider that we
shine conversationally when with stars of the soft
sex. And we don’t consider that they think so,
either. It was, therefore, with a feeling of relief
that, staggering under the weight of Miss Lee’s
presentation, we rather slunk than otherwise out
of the office. It was an uncomfortable perform-
ance. We were conscious that our bow was not
graceful; that our hat got somehow mixed up
with our umbrella; and that, in our confusion, we
had carried away the treasurer’s pocket-handker-
chief. But what was worse than all, was to hear a
silvery laugh, and a voice: “They’re always
§iddy, those boys who belong to religious papers.”
he thought we belonged to the Protestant
Standard!
* * *
Eh, bien: et aprbs t Well, not mueh. A
course stemmed through a tide of the talent, an-
other jump into the safety which is not safe; and,
with our hands upon our hearts, a humble bow.
Press correspondents wanted immediately,
in every town in Australia. Australian Press
Agency, 91 Lt. Collins St. East, Melbourne; Sydney,
138 Pitt St— Adv.
Alfred censures Mr. James Brown, of New-
castle, for keeping up the price of coal, and keep-
ing down the price of labour, when he was making
£33,600 annually out of his Minmi mine. He
hopes the miners won’t forget Mr. Brown’s ad-
mission. So do we.
Recently the Licensed Victuallers of Mac-
clesfield gave their annual dinner, and some local
wags decided on playing them a practical joke. A
blacksmith, near Buxton, bore a startling personal
resemblance to Lord Vernon; he was duly
“squared,” and the Association felt highly com-
plimented by “His Lordship’s” acceptance of an
invitation to dine with them. The blacksmith
having been (at no small outlay) arrayed in purple
and fine linen, was duly escorted into the upper
room of the Angel by two leading publicans, who,
being in the secret, undertook to prompt him—
pressure on the foot being the signal previously
agreed upon as a hint for silence or speech. His
Lordship partook of fish, which he ate with a knife
voraciously, but did not at all fancy the hock sup-
plied as a concomitant. On the arrival of the
champagne he expressed very unequivocal satis-
faction with it; indeed, to such an extent did he
carry his approbation, that he insisted on drinking
it in a tumbler. The consumption of green peas
with a knife was inevitable after his Lordship’s
manipulation of the fish, but the crowning catas-
trophe occurred when the dessert stage of the ban-
quet was reached. The head waiter, solemnly
selecting eight of the choicest dishes, deftly
balanced four on each hand, and approaching the
guest of the evening, offered them for his selection.
“Ah,” exclaimed his Lordship, “I’ll just tak’
sum’ of all that’s agoing”—and therewith com-
menced to fill his pockets with every kind of fruit.
Our practical jokers had not anticipated a contre-
temps of this kind, and it is hard to say how the
matter would have terminated, had not absolute
oblivion, in the shape of intoxication, put an end
to “His Lordship’s” embarrassment; and he sank
peacefully under the table—just as his health was
on the point of being proposed.
It doesn’t matter where this happened;
and it doesn’t matter when. But it happened. It
was a funeral. We like writing about funerals and
corpses, and graves, and things of that sort, some-
how. If we didn’t dampen our spirits in this way
occasionally, we should be too gay to live. Well,
this funeral being the funeral of a “ rale owld
Irish gintleman,” passed off in the “raleowld Irish
style. First went the hearse. By the way, as a
philosophical parenthesis, it is a strange thing that
people always dispute for the first place in every-
thing but a funeral. Perhaps we might also except
an execution. However, the hearse went first,
and the nflmber of blaok plumes that waved from
its roof and blotted the daylight showed that the
deceased had been much respected. After the
hearse came the mourners in a variety of vehicles
—dog-carts, drays, furniture-vans, and even one
enthusiastic youth on a bicycle. But in the matter
of crape they were all solemnly en riale. Each
had enough on his hat to rig a coffin-ship. The
town rushed out of course to see what sort of a
procession followed the old man to his last allot-
ment. And the mourners looked back to see the
town admiring them. Perhaps the only purely
disinterested person present was the corpse. But
the grief of the chief mourners—both red-haired
men—was the real feature of the affair. It was
exhibited under difficulties—neither having a hand-
kerchief, had to staunch their sorrow with the
backs of their hands—which probably added to the
interest of the performance. The old man was at
last duly shovelled into his ground-floor lodgings,
and the mourners hiccuped their way home in
twos and threes. “ Hallo,” observed a stranger
who had just arrived in town, “what’re those
fellows doing with the pirate flags on their hats ?”
“ Been to a funeral.” “ Well, why don’t they take
off the trappings ?” “ Oh, it’s not over yet—they’ve
got to fight.” A few hours later a mass of torn
and muddy crape in a street gutter and a running
brook of crimson gore told the fact—that Mr.
Bones’s funeral was largely attended. You can’t
beat the Irish in the matter of honouring the
dead.
Mr. J. D. D. Jackson, of Gordon-street,
appears to have purchased or otherwise acquired
vested right in addressing Alfred througn his
paper. Mr. Jackson claims that the incarcerated
gentleman who contested the estates is Arthur
Orton, and a lot of other people—including Daniel
Smith, Esq., and Joseph Eckford, Esq.—are, it
seems, of a different opinion. It is remarkable
that nearly every one of the Ortons have, at dif-
ferent times, sworn all round the clock; and as
they are really the only people who can, without
question, know anything certain about it, the
thing has grown so mixed that it is about ten years
since anybody but Mr. Eckford (who must, any
way, be credited with sincerity) cared a rap about
the matter. Mr. Jackson, if speaking and writing
strongly on the Tichborne trouble, must, we sup-
pose, also be admitted to thoroughly believe in his
version. We don’t know, and don't mind either;
but we more particularly don’t mind. Mr. Jack-
son's literary style is, if severe, certainly ornate.
Behold how he concludes one of his Saturday
“ screamers”“ Your sportful but savage corres-
pondent, in his spurious ophiomancy (I), is re-
minded by this playful anaconda (Eunectes muri-
nus) that I, as a pure Brazilian sucuruja, when
tickled too much, will turn round, crush, and
slime him over with my viscid humour; and at one
gulp, down he shall go, so that nothing will be
seen sticking from my mouth but bis crooked
horns and his old hobbed (sic) nailed, dirty shoes."
We should like a man to write to us something
couched in these elegant terms—and to call after-
wards for the letter. We wouldn’t keep him long.
“ FRATER, AVE, ATQUE SCRIBE.”
Write us a poem for the Bulletin, O—nothing
vulgar, trite, or low;
And golden ore we'll pay to thee, for our exche-
quer’s full, you know.
But it must have wit and pathos, and some little
sense must show: —
Not all “rot” about Catullus, and old musty
Sirmio.
Sing, for the great Sydney public, MTlwraith’s
imbroglio,
With perspiring Queensland squatters, round the
Bay of Keppel, 01
Smartly give audacious M’Elhone a candid and
impartial show:
And of “A.G.,” him of Mudgee, pitch it strong,
yea, skite and blow!
Chaff bold Harry Parkes—he’ll stand it; tell Stuart
it’s time to pack and go!
ALFRED TENNYSON.
Tranmerei.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Delicious drowsing filled my soul,
Resistance yielded slowly,
While through the open doorway stole
The sunshine, bright and holy.
Some sparrows twittered on a bough,
And shook down almond blossom;
Two children eyed a poley cow,
Half frightened she might toss ’em.
Sweet sounds, by natural pauses timed,
Came stealing up the valley,
And rang within mine ears and chimed
A Credo musically.
Through the clear heaven’s ethereal blue
Sight led me, till, in seeming,
I lost the Present, and but knew
I dozed, and soon was dreaming.
I dreamt that theatres were purged,
That “sole lessees ” had vanished;
Refinement with the drama merged,
Held “ stars ” unknown and banished.
I dreamt that lawyers all were hanged—
Desire achieved shot arrows
Of joy throughout me—someone banged
My toes—l saw the sparrows.
They faded: I dreamt on, and then,
That House was burned to embers
Whioh echoes foolish words of men
Who make more foolish members.
I dreamt my wife was growing wise,
Nor graced a church on Sunday;
That freed from pious frauds and lies,
As good a day was Monday.
I dreamt by merit-honouring votes
Were legislators chosen,
That parsons all wore petticoats,
Ana bishops’ tongues were frozen.
Here Nora pricked me with a pin,
Again I smelt the clover;
The organ crashed a dismal din—
Thank God, the sermon’s over!
A BUSH BEAUTY.
Her head was thatched with straw
In summer, and the sun
Made redder yet her raw
Red hands, not hands of one
Who neither toiled nor spun.
What though her feet were put
For use—not show, in sootn—
Beneath her bodice beat
The tropic heart of youth,
Whose ev’ry throb was truth.
She was a country maid,
Not versed in city arts;
She called a spade a spade—
No love of foreign parts
She knew, but could make tarts,
And churn, and bake, and stew,
And cook what one could eat,
And ride as well as you;
And dance with football fleet,
Though not of the ilite.
She couldn’t make the fist
That city maidens could
At Chopin or at Liszt:
But then she could chop wood,
Which we think quite as good.
She was like a star through gloom
Shining on the earth beneath;
But, ivhat somewhat takes the bloom
From this fine poetic wreath,
She never cleaned her teeth!
GENTLE ANNIE.
Gentle Annie’s gone to glory,
Gentle Annie now is glad;
Very simple is her story,
Very simple, very sad.
She was so demure and quiet,
Never said an angry word;
If she ever sighed a sigh, it
Was so low it was not heard.
Always acted as peacemaker
Till the day of her decease—
No one ever did mistake her
When she showed she wanted peace.
No one ever did object full
Homage to pay to her reign;
Everybody was respectful,
Though her countenance was plain.
But one dark day stern men got her,
And into the backyard led,
And in cold blood there they shot her —
Took and shot her througn the head.
Never her have we forgot, for
There’s her epitaph in view;
“ Gentle Annie, bull-slut, shot for
Biting a man’s leg in two.”
Gentle Annie’s gone to glory,
Gentle Annie now is glad;
Very simple is her story,
Very simple, very sad.
SUNRISE.
He was a bard; his hair was long-;
He’d all that e’er pertained to song:
A soft eye that in frenzy rocks,
A block-tin collar, two odd socks;
A wife—and this fact caps the whole—
Who hated poetry from Tier soul;
He drew aside the blind at dawn,
And gazed out on the scented morn.
“ Oh, ecstacy!” he cried “behold
The east all tinged with red and gold;
The gorgeous sheen—a heav’nly i-ain—
That Hecks the waves that lave llalinain.”
And, as he twauged his airy lyre,
She cried: “ Your turn to light the fire.”
Maud’s Lovers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Maud first fell In love, she Razed
Into her heart, and saw, amazed,
His image on the surface thrown,
But, in the deeper depths, her own.
That love was nowise lasting, so
Maud fell in love again, you know.
Once more she looked into her heart,
But then her image had no part;
For, from the core to rind, we wis,
Her heart was his and wholly his—
He loved her not; she mourned above
A month; then took another love,
And found, when she became a wife,
She’d found the master of her life.
She looked again into her heart,
But there his image had no part.
For then, at last, it did befall,
There was no image there at all.
The Furniture Column.
Attractive
at
ra*aat
ITEMS
ATTRACTIVE TRICES.
. In Drawing-room Furniture
Dining-room Furniture
'. rrw , In Bedroom Furniture
In Hall, Office, and Library Furniture.
A few of Bord's Pianos at £34 left
Samples Suites in very pretty patterns, £lO 10s
to £35
Large Pier Glasses were £6lss, are now £5 15s.
Pictures, good subjects, from 5s
Bedsteads, all sizes, makes, and colours, 15s to £lB
Bedding equally cheap
Bedroom Wardrobes and Toilet Pairs, cheap
Toilet Glasses, from 3s to £3
New Shapes and Patterns in Toilet Sets, &c., &c.
Reduced Prices in AUSTRIAN FURNITURE.
The object is really to reduce the Stock. We have
no available room for new goods, and must make
NOTE THE ADVANTAGES OF FURCHASING
FOR CASH!
Pair palliasses
Mattress
Bolster and pillow
Washstand and set
Table
Glass
Chair
Matting
KITCHEN.
Table with drawer
Pine safe ...
Two chairs
13 Meat plates
13 Pudding plates
13 Cheese plates
Pair vegetable dishes
Gravy boat
Meat dishes, Is, Is 9d, 3s 3d, 3s
Pie dish
Six China cups and saucers...
Six China plates
China sugar basin
China milk jug
China butter dish
China slop basin
Six China egg cups
Two bread and butter plates
Pair cut salt cellars
Set of jugs
Pair of decanters
Six cut wines
Six cut tumblers
Six soda glasses
Six Mosley'B dinner knives ...
Six nickel dinner forks
Six Mosley’s dessert knives ...
Six nickel dessert forks
Six tea spoons
Six dessert spoons
Two table spoons
Kettle
Boiler
Saucepans, 3s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s
Frying pan
Grid-iron
Tea-pot
Tea-caddy
Coffee-pot
Colander
Bread grater
Wash basin
Dipper ...
Tubs, ss, 6s (id
Buckets, Is 9d, 3s
Wash-board
Two candlesticks
Baking dishes, Bd, lOd
Pepper caster
Flour dredge
Set skewers
Nutmeg grater
Knife box
Paste board and roller
Pair flat irons
Pair bellows
Hair broom
Hand broom
Dust pan
Scrub brush
Knife board and polish
Set shoe brushes
Kitchen spoon
14 o
For the sum of JB7O promjjt net cash,
You can furnish a house as follows:
DRAWING ROOM.
£ s. c
Full suite of nine articles, namely:—
Couch, Lady’s Easy Chair, Arm Chair,
and six small chairs ... 11
Centre table ... 1
Plate glass back sideboard ... 3
Gilt frame pier glass 3
Cornice pole, with rings, pins, and
braokets
Lamp
Striking clock 1
Ornaments
Fender and irons
16 Yards Fancy Matting
Velvet Pile Hearthrug
Door slip
DINING ROOM.
Austrian suite, consisting of couch, two
arm chairs, and 6 small chairs ... 5
Oval dining table
Cheffonier
Matting
Hearthrug
Fender and irons
Door slip
BEDROOM No. 1.
Handsome four post (4ft. Bin.) tubular
bedstead
Pair palliasses
Wool flock mattress
Bolster
Two feather pillows
Polished cedar seven-drawer chest of
Towel rail washstand and white and goid
Toilet table with drawer
Toilet glass
Table toilets
Two cane chairs...
Rocking or folding chair
Matting
BEDROOM No. 3.
Half tester bedstead
Pair palliasses
Mattress
Bolster
Flock pillow
Chest of drawers
Washstand and set
Toilet glass
C. S. chair
Matting ...
SERVANT’S ROOM.
Bedstead
1 1
3 15 o
15
9
9
4
13
6
1
£7O 0 0
Copies of the ECONOMICAL HOUSE FURNISH-
ING GUIDE are posted free to all parts of the
Colony.
Campbell Brothers,
Hoyal Furnishing Arcade,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT THE ROYAL HOTEL.
TO ARTISTS.—Have you seen the large picture
in the window of the ROYAL FURNISHING
ARCADE?


PE R A
HOUSE
O
Lessee, W. J. Wilson. Sub-Lessee, A. T. Dunning.
Stage Manager, T, B. Appleby.
Treasurer, J. F. Goldsworthy.
ANOTHER GREAT PRODUCTION.
THE KING’S DRAGOONS
THE KING’S DRAGOONS,
and
THE WONDERFUL ESTHETIC DANCE,
again received with the Greatest Enthusiasm, by a
Crowded House in every part, while
NUMBERS HAD TO BE TURNED AWAY.
THIS and EVERY EVENING.
Admission —Dress Cirole. 55.; Stalls, 35. ; Pit, Is.
Box plan at Huenerbien s Musio Warehouse, 411
George-street, where seats may be secured for any
date in advance. Day tickets obtained at
Stone’s, tobaoconist, next Theatre.
Secretary to A. T. Dunning, A. N. Halijtax.
THEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING,
MISS JENNIE LEE,
R 8
“JO,"
played by her over 3000 times in the principal cities
of the world, supported by
Mr. J. P. BURNETT
and a carefully selected Company.
Business Manager for Miss Lee, LTDDY.
jyj"ERCANTILE ROWING CLUB BA«LL.
The Eighth Annual Ball,
EXHIBITION BUILDING,
PRINCE ALFRED PARK,
THURSDAY, 21st JUNE,
Under the patronage of
THE WORSHIPFUL THE MAYOR, JOHN
HARRIS, Esq.,
and the
MERCHANTS OF SYDNEY.
Dress—Plain and Fancy.
Refreshments by City Catering Company.
Decorations by Messrs. Sale and Dare.
Band—The Young Australian.
SPECIAL TRAINS FOR PARRAMATTA AND
INTERMEDIATE STATIONS, 3 a.m.
Stewards:
Hon. J. B. Watt Carl Sahl, Esq.
Hon. W. M. Alderson Sir P. A. Jennings
T. R. A lit, Esq. Capt. J. G. Barron
H. Butcher. Esq., M.L.A. R. Fowler, Esq.
Thos. Dalton, Esq., M.L.A. J. B. Holdsworth, Esq.
John Gardyne, Esq. W. Laidley, Esq.
Joliu Hardie, Esq. John Pope, Esq.
C. K. Moore, Esq. C. J. Roberts, Esq.
Chas. Pearce, Esq. John See, Esq.
R. Sands, Esq.
Committee :
W. F. Hixson
F. Ives
R. A. Keddie
H. Mears
E. Needs
J. Smart
F. Thorpe
H. E. Wilkinson
C. Wilkinson.
W. R. Benson
J. Blackman
E. J.Barron
F. C. Boulton
K. E. Brindley
D. Dennis
P. J. Dowling
D. Fletcher
M. J. Fitzgerald
A, Green
Double Tickets
Gentleman’s ..
Lady’s
Tickets :
£l 10 0
lO 0
_ 0 IS 8
Tickets may be obtained from the Stewards,
embers of Committee, and the following ware-
msesMessrs. Peapes and Shaw, E. Cantor, J.
. Ellercamp, Elvy and Co., Paling and Co., Las-
tter and Co., Farmer and Co., J. B. Holdsworth,
sari and Sons, R. Sands, A. Huenerbein, and
lompson and Giles.
D. MURRAY, { Joint
W. A. BLACKSTONE,) Hon. Secs,
F. J. BULL, Hon. Treasurer.
Coolalta Wine Cellars,
Mort’s Passage.
183000 on MELBOURNE CUP,
Ki 1883.
The Third Consultation of my 1883 Series.
'AUSTRALASIA” SWEEP.
13,000 Shares, at 5s each.—An even 4, £l.
First Horse
Second Horse ..
Third Horse
Starters divide ..
Non-Starers
Tnt.nl. £2OOO.
£lOOO
500
850
I'."
100
10 Prizes at £25—£250
50 •• 10— 600
50 5 250
£lOOO
Grand total, £3OOO
lUUU* I v**w**v*
The success of former events induces me to an-
nounce the next on the Melbourne Cup, the
greatest racing- event of the year, as above.
Results advertised in leading papers, and for-
warded to all subscribers. A pound secures four
chances— not one only. Ten per cent, is deducted
for all expenses. Applicants are requested to en-
close notes, P. 0.0., or crossed cheques (to which
exchange must be added), and 4d. stamps for reply
and result. Register letters.
Address—" AUSTRALASIA,”
Care of Mr. H. J. FRANKLIN,
Printer and Publisheij
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
4*
O?
m
jnpHE "GREAT BONANZA” CLUB CONSUL-
on the
MELBOURNE CUP, 1883,
To be run about the end of October.
Capital £7500. Divided into 150,000 Shares at Is
v each. 500 Prizes Guaranteed.
To be distributed as follows:
First Horse .. .. £lOOO
Second Horse .. f>oo
Third Horse.. .. A5O
Startors divide .. MO
Non-starters divide 2ao
10 Prizes of £lOO, £lOOO
20 Prizes of £5O, £lOOO
40 Prizes of £35, £lOOO
100 Prizes of £lO, £lOOO
200 Prizes of £5, £lOOO
31 Tickets for £l. Not less than 5 Tickets sent to
any singlo address. Send P.O. Order or Bank
Notes. If coin ho enclosed, please register letter.
If Stamps are sent, add exchange at the rate Is in
the £l. Exchange should also be added to cheques.
Pleaso enclose 3d extra for Membership Fee. No
charge for reply or result. Drawing will positively
take place on or before the 25th October, and will
be conducted before a Committee of Shareholders.
Tickets promptly sent by return post, and results
posted immediately after drawing. Prospectuses
forwarded. Enclose an addressed envelope un-
H^Address : “Bonanza,” care of J. Thomas, 20
Swanston-street, Melbourne.
THE BUGGIES OF THE PERIOD.
Unequalled for Durability and Elegance-
WAGGONETTES & EXPRESS WAGGON S
FIRST-CLASS WORK ONLY IMPORTED.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 & 24 C/arence-st.,
SYDNEY.
BROOKS SEWING COTTONS
ms
©
te
O
C*
s
§5
p'*
BROOK’S SIX-CORD
SOFT COTTON
OX
NEW SHOULDER REEL
VERY CAREFULLY MADE
FOB
HAND & MACHINE SEWING,
White, Black & all Colours -
BROOK’S PATENT
GLAC£ THREAD
ON
NEW SHOULDER REEL.
xxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxx
xxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Beait brum m ell
whs the
GREATEST LIVING AUTHORITY
ON DRESS,
and he expressed his candid opinion that
a young man of respectability,
WITH ECONOMY,
could dress well on
FIVE HUNDRED A YEAR.
That was in his day, but now you
can obtain
A FULL SUIT OF NICE SCOTCH
TWEED for 50s
A FASHIONABLY-CUT and COM-
FORTABLE TROUSERS for 14s
A TROUSERS AND VEST THAT ALL
WILL ADMIRE for 24s fid,
AT HORDERN BROTHERS’, IN
PITT-STREET.
This proves without a doubt that
THE PURCHASING POWER OF THE
PEOPLE HAS INCREASED.
And the intelligence of the people has
increased likewise; and the honest-
hearted, horny-handed sons of toil —the
bone and sinew of this glorious land —
also the clever and skilful mechanic, the
ever-toiling shopman and hard-working
clerk, the studious and thoughtful men
of letters, of law, of physics, of jour-
nalism, and of inventive genius, all a-
like demand to dress
WITH ECONOMY,
YOUNG MEN OF RESPECTABILITY;
and the pioneers of our country, who
walk abroad with decorum and with
dignity, as beeome those who have done
so much for the rising generation, also
wish to attire themselves with
ECONOMY, TASTE, and COMFORT.
With this end in view, they visit
HORDERN BROTHERS’ IN PITT-
STREET,
and purchase
TWEED SUITS FOR 50s.
that astonish all who see them; Suits
that fit like a glove; Suits that exhibit
the artistic skill of the men who make
them; Suits that give a lasting pleasure
to all who wear them, and their intelli-
gence induces them to purchase
TWEED TROUSERS for 14s,
cut in a gentlemanly style, and made
from really nice material, after it has
been soaked 24 hours to ensure a posi-
tive guarantee against shrinkage, andtO
accomplish all this they visit
HORDERN BROTHERS’, IN PITT-
STREET,
and purchase Suits and Trousers for
present and for future wear, lest a war
in Europe, or some other unforeseen
and untoward accident, should occasion
a rise in Woollen Goods and prevent
HORDERN BROTHERS, IN PITT-
STREET,
from continuing to supply their patrons
with such good and well-made garments
at such a small price. The public are
therefore invited to participate in tho
exceptional value now given at
HORDERN BROTHERS’, IN PITT-
STREET.
ALL DRESSES. BALL DRESSES.
BALL DRESSES.
B
A Splendid Display of
BALL COSTUMES
at HORDERNS’ in PITT-STREET,
in our Large Southern Window.
We can make for you, or sell ready
made, very Fashionable and Unique Ball
Dre atMOST MODERATE PRICES.
TRY US.
100 Dressmakers constantly at work.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
Drapers, Importers, Dressmakers, Milli-
ners, Tailors, & Carpet Warehousemen,
PITT-STREET.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XXXX xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxx
xxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxx
Great six days’ walking sweep-
stakes. open to residents of the colony, to
take place at the EXHIBITION BUILDING,
Prince Alfred Park, Sydney, on August 6 and fol-
lowing six days. Anyone wishing to take part in a
six days’ walking contest for a Sweepstakes of £3O
each, and distribution of the gate-money after
expenses have been paid, between the first five
men, are invited to communicate with the under-
signed. Nominations close, at Punch’s Hotel, 33rd
J. W. TAYLOR, Hon. Sec.
"OALANCE sheet
the haymarketPermanent land,
BUILDING, AND INVESTMENT COMPANY
(LIMITED),
for the Half-year ending 15th May, 1883.
£ s. d.
Subscribed capital 71,592 0 0
Paid-up capital ... 25,997 18 0
Uupald capital 45,594 2 0
LIABILITIES.
Paid-up capital
Share deposits
Dividends unpaid
Deposits and other liabilities
Interest accrued
Profit and loss
25,997 18 0
3,444 0 0
:)2 15 6
65,201 10 4
977 10 8
17,608 1 2
ASSETS.
Amount on mortgage
Balances owing on land sales
Land not sold ...
Rent owing
Stock stationery ... .«
Office furniture
Cash balance
£113,261 15 3
.. 57,228 12 2
.. 40,234 4 6
.. 14,849 4 0
18 6 8
„ 11 8 6
635 15 0
384 4 5
£113,261 15 3
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS.
To interest paid and accrued
Office furniture account
Vote to directors ~ ..£l5O 0 0
Bonus to manager.. .. 25 0 0
Bonus to assistant.. .. 25 0 0
Directors’ fees .. .. £lOl 19 6
Manager’s and salary coin-
-2,404 9 8
59 6 0
200 0 0
Sion
Assistant’s salary ..
Auditor’s fees
Rent
Advertising, printing, sta-
tionery, &c.
Balance
165 2 8
78 0 0
31 10 0
179 0 0
189
9
Cr.
744 17 11
17,608 1 2
£21,016 14 9
By balance, November 15,
1882 £17,086 14 7
Less dividend for past
year .. .. .. 2,373 15 1
14,712 19 6
Interest 4,196 13 8
Fines .. .. .. .. .. •. 23 16 2
Profit on land sales 2,083 5 6
£21,016 14 9
By balance
Dr.
£17,608 1 3
RECEIPTS.
By Cash Balance, 15th November, 1882 42 9 6
Paid-up Capital .. .. : •• 11.806 610
Repayments on mortgages .. .. 9,193 14 9
Payments on land sales .. .. 4,149 511
Deposits 12,900 6 7
Stock stationery 17 13 6
£38,108 17 1
DISBURSEMENTS.
Cr.
To Land .. .. .. .. • • • • 2,613 18 3
Advances on mortgage.. .. • ■ 9,546 15 1
Deposits withdrawn & Interest paid 10,656 16 4
Expenses
Dividends
Office furniture
Decrease in liability to bank..
Cash balance
944 17 11
2,349 14 2
462 5 3
11,150 5 8
384 4 5
£38,108 17 1
We hereby certify that, haying examined all
vouchers and the items contained in the above
balance sheet, and profit and loss account, we have
found them correct, and are satisfied that the books
of the company are faithfully kept, and the gene-
ral business thereof properly conducted.
T. W. CRAVEN, ! Auditors
GEO. BERNER, f Auditors.
The following rates of interest are allowed on
FIXED DEPOSITS
Twelves months, 7 per centum,
Six months, 6 per centum.
Special rates for large amounts.
In addition to the above, the Company is pre-
pared to receive money on CURRENT DEPOSIT,
subject to withdrawal at anytime, either in part or
whole, and will allow interest thereon at the rate
of FIVE per centum per annum, computed on the
DAILY BALANCE, and credited to the account
every half-year.
The attention of Depositors is called to the large
amount of UNPAID CAPITAL, which is equal to
a RESERVE FUND, and to the fact that the
assets of the Company are secured on Freehold
Pi operties. QEO> BAKER WALKER,
Manager.
W. Howard Smith and Sons,
STRUTH’S WHARF and NBW WHARF
(Foot of King Street).
Offices: 42 KING STREET.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Brisbane to Port Maekay and Townsville
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
600
000
1500
1500
000
1200
700
* To arrive.
W. HOWARD SMITH and SONS,
42 King Street, Sydney.
Armstrong’s Remedy for Internal nr
Bleeding Piles
Rapidly superseding all other modes of treatment.
For the CURE of HEMMERHOIDB, largely pre-
scribed by the Faculty. It improves the general
HEALTIL equalises the CIRCULATION, relieves
CONGESTION, stops BLEEDING, Pain, and Itch-
ing, in from 24 to 28 hours. Sold in bottles only, at
4s. 6d. and 10s.
ARMSTRONG’S PARAGON PILE OINTMENT,
FOR OUTWARD PILES. Price, 2s.
Armstrong’s (Camomile) Liver and Bilious
Pills,
For the Curo of Indigestion, Dyspepsia,P alns in
the Side, Headaohe, Giddiness, Heartburn, Flatu-
lency, and Habitual Constipation. They give a
Healthy Tone and Vigour to the necessary Organs
of Digestion—the Stomach and Liver—and being
mild in their operation, promote Digestion, restore
the Appetite, and strengthen the entire System.
Price, Is., 25., and 4s. 6d.
Armstrong’s Red Jamaica Sarsaparilla,
in Combination with Dandelion and Potash.
“ Recommended by the Highest Medical authority
as a Vitalising Blood Restorative and Tonio.”
6s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 21s.
Goods forwarded to all parts of the colonies,
and Price Lists sent post free.
160 PITT STREET, ; SYDNEY,
Two Doors below Compagnoni’s.
THE TRAMWAYS
mam com
(LIMITED).
JOHN SANDS, Agent,
374 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE COMPANY having obtained the exclusive
right of
ADVERTISING
ON ALL THE GOVERNMENT TRAMWAYS, '
directs the attention of
ADVERTISERS
to this
NEW and MOST EFFICIENT MEANS
of
Giving PUBLICITY to their ANNOUNCEMENTS,
whereby EACH ADVERTISEMENT
will be brought under the
ATTENTION of a TRAVELLING PUBLIC
of
27,000,000 FEB ANNUM.
Such an
EXCEPTIONAL MODE
ef
EXHIBITING ADVERTISEMENTS
of
EVERY DESCRIPTION
has a
PRACTICAL VALUE
which cannot be too highly estimated,
possessing as it does,
ADVANTAGES FOUND IN NO OTHER
ADVERTISING MEDIUM.
FOR ALL INFORMATION
respecting
SPACES, PRICES, &C.,
Apply at the OFFICE OF THE COMPANY,
374 GEORGE STREET.
JOHN SANDS, Agent


SUNDRY SHOWS.
THEATRE royal, “Jo ”... Vide p. 10.
OPERA house. “ King s Dragoons ib.
There’s a fairy tale that’s real,
With a kindly humour rife,
With a pathos all must feel:
’Tis a fairy tale of life!
And there is intermingled there
With the wisdom of the sage,
A satire keen and rare
Upon ev’ry deathless page.
’Tis the book that tells, you know,
Of “Jo.”
* * *
Now understand, “ ’tis the book.” Wesay
this because the dramatisation of “ Bleak House"
bv Mr. J P. Burnett, which we witnessed on Satur-
, d :; v night, gives one as much idea of the novel as
a cow does of a coroner. We do not know what
may be Mr. Burnett’s literary qualifications, but
they would seem to have been considered exten-
sive by Mr. Dion Boucicault, since it was at that
gentleman’s request that he adapted the novel.
We expect, when the work was done, Dion never
saw it. Had he done so, there would in all proba-
bility have been a flash of a hedge-stake, and Mr.
Burnett would never have lived to tell the tale,
nor to enact (ns he does) the part of Bucket.
• • •
As a matter of fact, Mr. Burnett’s adapta-
tion is less a play than a dramatic necklace that is
not dramatic. With the exception of “Jo,” and
perhaps Chadband, Sir Leicester Dedlock, and one
or two more, the characters are poor shadows,
which flit about and bore you. Ana it is worthy
of remark that the more they flit about the more
they bore you. All this is very sad; but, what is
sadder still, Mr. Burnett has endeavoured to im-
prove on Dickens. In that wonderful scene in
the novel where Jo is taken by Bucket to
Tulkinghorn’s chambers, with Mr. Snagsby,
to identify the lady, the picture is unique
in its dramatic intensity, perfect in its
placid repose. In Mr. Burnett’s piece, the author,
by a wild flight of fancy and a delicate perception
of the truly humorous, makes Bucket continually
call Mr. Snagsby “ Snaggy;” and all his other inter-
polations are of a similarly brilliant character.
This kind of thing to a student of Dickens is simply
intolerable, and to one who has even a glimmering
of the artistic it is inexpressibly painful. It is but
fair, however, to state that the “ Snaggy” business
made the beery, coatlfess vandals in the pit and
gallery laugh; but, then, the majority of these
Eeople would laugh if a cat sneezed' in a dead-
ouse.
* * *
Miss Jennie Lee has led us to expect a great
deal from her personal performance, and we did
expect a good deal. The conclusion we have come
to is that she must have read the book. Her “Jo ”
is such a careful and elaborate study, and she
displayed really so much intelligence, that what
we wonder is she ever consented to waste her
talents on a play that Ristori couldn’t pull through,
or Salvini save. Yet she is singularly successful;
and but for her performance the piece would be
whistled off all over the world before the third
scene. “ Jo,” wrote Charles Dickens, “is not
softened by distance and unfamiliaritv; he is not
a genuine foreign-grown savage; he is the ordinary
home-made article. Dirty, ugly, disagreeable to
all the senses, in body a common creature of the
common streets, only in soul a heathen. Homely
filth begrimes him, homely parasites devour him,
homely sores are in him, homely rags are on him:
native ignorance, the growth of English soil and
climate, sinks his immortal nature lower than the
beasts that perish. Stand forth, Jo, in uncompro-
mising colours 1 From the soul of thy foot to the
crown of thy head, there is nothing interesting
about thee.” In appearance, save for a little par-
donable poetry or manner, Miss Jennie is this
same Jo. In action and speech she has also grasped
her author’s meaning; and the result is a singu-
larly interesting study. All the town should see
this, even as they saw “Henry V.” And that
was a bit of a bore at times, too. “ Bill,”
said the “dramatic author” in “Nicholas Nic-
kleby ” who made plays out of other people’s
novels before they were finished—” Bill was
a very good adapter considering.” So ho
was. That little trifle “Romeo and Juliet”—an
admitted adaptation—will bear witness that
Shakespeare could clothe a simple story in a garb
of poetry. Yes; on the whole, therefore, we con-
sider him superior to Mr. J. P. Burnett in that line.
Say—a little superior.
• • •
The scenery was by Hennings, and his
efforts showed pretty plainly that, whatever may
be his talents as an artist, he had not attentively
read the book. The place where Captain Hawi on
was buried is described by Dickens in perhaps the
most powerful passage in the whole novel, thus:—
“ With houses looking on, on every side, save
where a reeking little tunnel of a court gives
access to the iron gate—with every villainy of
life in action close on death, and every poisonous
element of death in action close on life—here, they
lower our dear brother down a foot or two; here,
sow rim in corruption, to be raised in corruption;
an avenging ghost at many a sick-bedside: a
shameful testimony to future ages, how civiliza-
tion and barbarism walked this boastful island
together.” Well, the burial yard that figures in
“ Jo ” is, with its green shrubs and limelight and
white tombstones, such a pleasant place, that we
frrew tired of life directly we saw it, and frantically
onged to be buried there.
• • •
The cast is not, taking it altogether, a
particularly strong one. Mr. Hoskins understood
what Sir Leicester Dedlock was, and played it quite
properly. Mr. J. P. Burnett has formed his own
idea of Bucket, which it will suffice to say was not
in our opinion a bit like the conception of the
author. Little Annie Read was amusing as Guster,
but she has been taught outrageous business that
has nothing in keeping with the part, and should
form a conception of her own. Mr. R. A. Vernon’s
Tulkinghorn was dull and weary, and the Lady
Dedlock of Mrs. George Gordon weary and dull.
Hortense, by Miss Docy Stewart, was intelli-
gently played, and Mr. W. B. Warner (about
whom we shall probably have something further
to say) was simply inane as Guppy. Mr. John
Musgrave was effectively oily as Chadband, and
Miss Ethel Adele made an Esther that was
Adelecious picture. Et voild!
** * *
Two condor claws buried in a mass of
tangled hair. Two rows of alligator teeth ground
together in a spasm of despair. Two hollow eyes
staring lucidly at vacancy. Two terrific feet
stretched out on the table. Reader, if you ask to
whom all these members belong, we will not try to
prevaricate. They belong to us.
• • •
It is mirk miduight. A pile of paper is
before us, as yet innocent of ink. The unappeas-
able yearning of a panting public for our manu-
script compels us to sit up and write when we
would rather be asleep and dreaming of angels. A
lonely candle stuck in the neck of a blacking-
bottle flickers feebly, and blinks at us in a foolish
way, as though it considered each of us was about
as bright as the other. The fire burns in a low-
spirited way, and the clock ticks as downheartedly
as if it were a death-watch. We expect a ghost in
at any moment.
* # •
We have been out to take another look at
the moon, and to make sure that the sea—we live
near the beach—has not carried away any more of
our back yard. Last night it came up and carted
away a cord of wood; at least, out of charity to
our neighbours, we suppose it did. But we can
get no inspiration. They close at eleven; and we
are afraid of water.
• • •
Yet it has to be done, and we may as well
make a start. We have to write about "The King’s
Dragoons,” and we are supposed to sparkle. This
is always the crusher. When wo feel depressed
and dismal, and just in the vein for writing a dirge
to the quiet dead, we are expected to shimmer like
a sunbeam, and curl people up with our drollery.
We are aware that this is hardly the spirit in which
to begin to write a light and lively notice of a
comic opera. So we will try to be cheerful, if we
can’t be gay. It was on Saturday night that we
went to the Opera House. We like going
on this night, because it brightens up our
Scriptural recollections. We sat between two
gentlemen of the tribe of Gad, who had beady
black eyes and the usual noses of their race. We
can never look on these noses without thinking
that they were intended to have rings in them.
And we are surprised they haven’t, as the owners
have rings on almost every other visible portion of
their bodies. Our neighbours were evidently
members of the higher class of society, as they
spoke in a loud voice, and criticised the physical
proportions of the chorus girls in a manner that
was giddy in the extreme. But not being giddy
ourseives we confined our attention to the singing,
with the result that we are now able to say cheer-
fully that we consider this last opera is not the
best that was ever produced. We don’t know
Crook, the composer, but if we did we should
employ him to set to music a mangle-madrigal we
are now writing for certain members of the late
Italian Opera Company to sing when engaged in
their new vocation. In sober earnest—if such a
condition be possible for us—we consider the
music of Mr. Crook is not phenomenally gay.
It is sparkling, certainly, but in a poor, little,
tin-whistle way, which is more calculated to
madden than to amuse. There is no kind of
backbone to it. It has a shallow jingle which is
suggestive of the music that accompanied the
lady who rode on a cock-horse and had a partiality
for wearing bells on her toes. There are few solos
in it of any account. And even these are not of
much account. The libretto is ludicrously feeble.
We don’t know who the author is, but we suspect
him to be the man who wrote the ditties blind men
at home used to sing after a man was hanged. He
may be a man of many talents, but if he has any
more like this we should advise him to bury them.
And yet he is not so much worse than most
other librettists. Charming music is very often
linked to drivel that an idiot would be ashamed of.
But here the writer has found a congenial inter-
preter in Crook.
• • •
So far, we have been speaking of the opera
itself. Of the performance, we have nothing so
harsh to say. Everybody was good in it, and some
were almost too good for this world. Miss Ivanova
was one of these. She was dressed in a Watteau
costume, and had Watteau hairpins and all the rest
in tasteful keeping. We noticed, also, that she
had a particularly pleasing Watteau ankle, which
made us think better of the opera at once. But
wo know she would rather be written of in rhyme
than in prose. So we take another pull at the
Muse, and start:—
She was such a charming sight, sirs,
So peculiarly bright, sirs,
So particularly pretty,
So deliciously idyllic,
That the writer of this ditty—
Though just now he’s not scintillic—
If of half her charms he’d write, sirs,
It would take him all the night, sirs.
And her singing! Her singing was something
better than seraphic. Miss Chard was also de-
lightful, but in a more subdued degree. Mr.
Appleby, as Robin, was almost as funny
as we are. Which we consider to be
somewhat high praise. We are not quite in har-
mony with public opinion on this point. Mr. Deane
Brand, as the Marquis of Brabuzon, and Mr.
Loredan, as Edgar, were good, but not better than
we could bear. And Mr. Ernest St. Clair is a suc-
cess as the Sergeant of Dragoons. Now, we feel
for the time what real happiness is like. Taken for
all in all, “ The King’s Dragoons ” is amusing and
no more. And not very umusing. You couldn’t
get us to say anything more if you stood over us
with a hatchet. There are a good many gags in the
piece, most of which are of the usual age but some
ot which are new to us. The best joke on Satur-
day night, however, was not in the piece at all. It
was when a stout old gentleman in the stage-box, in
trying to fascinate some of the chorus-girls, leant
too far backward and fell over his chair. This con-
vulsed the audience, and “gave pleasure to all.”
** * *
Herr Bandmann was in Gympie at latest
dates. Gympie is a good place for anyone who
wants to show performing goats, but it is not the
El Dorado of tragedy. Which is peculiar, because
the original meaning of tragedy (tragodia) was
goat-song. You see that, though we appear to be
thoughtless triflers, we can stun the public with an
erudite sentence just as well as any of our ponder-
ous contemporaries. With Bandmann is Louise
Beaudet, and yet the show doesn’t seem to draw.
If they could only metamorphose themselves into
a dog-fight, the houses would bo crammed. By
the way, there are three Louises in the colonies
just now—Davenport, Beaudet, and Pomeroy—all
tragic actresses, and all “stars.” They might be
called the constellation Hennessy.
** * *
Let us die. We have forgotton all about
the Polks for weeks past. Ana the Polks are not
people easily forgotten, not to mention Johnny
Hall and Arthur Vivian—whose shadow, we hope,
will never grow less than it was when he came
down to Sydney from the North. Which reminds
us of a true story. Arthur had been in the city
about a week when he met Sheridan, who was just
then working up a cast. It was at the corner of
King-street, in the full sunlight. Sheridan, being
an impetuous man, plunged into the middle of the
business at once. “Your friend, I suppose, can
hear what I have to say ?” There was no reply, so
Sheridan took it for granted that the friend, as he
supposed him to be, was all right. Then he went
into the details of what he wanted, and stated what
salary he was prepared to give. No reply still, but
Sheridan was too much wrapped up in his subject
to take any notice of this eccentricity. So he set-
tled the engagement right off, and then asked his
auditor to come and wet it with a drink. But
there was no move. Then, and not till then, did he
discover that he had all this time been talking to
Arthur’s shadow, and that what he had taken for
the friend was Arthur himself. They say that in
those times Art. was so thin that this was the only
way you could tell the difference between him and
his shadow:—lf you went up to the shadow and
whispered an invitation under your breath it
would not move; but if you whispered into
Arthur’s ear, his bones would rattle in his skin with
a sound like a chain-cable rattling through a
house-hole, and he would dive into the nearest bar
even like an anchor diving into the deep. Not
that he cared much for drink, Arthur. It was
simply his morbid fear of giving offence. We are
glad to hear that he is a success as the Kev. Mild-
man, and that he has “ caught the ultra-Anglican
tone,” though where he caught it is a mystery.
Probably he caught it with a shark hook, or per-
haps it is contagious like the measles. The Ade-
laide critics are delighted with “The Strategist,”
and, what is much better, so is the Adelaide pub-
lic. They have crowded houses all the time.
#m * *
Miss Myra Kemble, whose name is familiar
—and pleasantly so—to Sydney playgoers, is, many
people will be glad to learn, about to return to the
stage. She is now sojourning with the her husband,
Eyeglass White, Esq., at the hot springs, New
Zealand: but will accept an engagement latpr as
leading lady. We are extremely glad—for every
reason—to hear this. Yes.
** * *
At the Theatre Royal, Adelaide, “ The
Strategist ” still runs merrily. Even Church of
England parsons attend and laugh themselves
black in the face. Ladies fancy that there is too
much kissing and strong language in the piece.
Perhaps the latter allegation is true, so do not con-
demn the alligator, as they say in Queensland,
because a certain humorous Canon was heard to
whisper to his bosom friend, the Rev. Henry P :
“ The thing’s all d nonsense; but it is damnably
amusing, and d me if I care a d for any d
fellow who says It isn’t.” “American” or 18th
instant.
lon must listen to this. Even if you don’t
want to, you must. They are playing “Patience”
up in Sandhurst, and the Colonel Calverly who
was once the rekerky Riccardi is now Mr. Thomas
Grundy. This is funny enough, in all conscience,
but not half so funny as the fact that Mr. Richard
Daly (who is little Dick Stewart) plays Major Mur-
gatroyd! Little Dick’s appearance in opera bouife
will surprise all his friends; as, his brilliant dthut
as the Duke Orsino in “Twelfth Night,” dur-
ing Louise Pomeroy’s season at the Royal, here.lled
Dick’s admirers to believe that he intended to
adopt an elevated Shakespearean career. We
cherished this idea in our minds also; but now our
hopes are blasted. But what is another crusher in
the combination is that Fanny Liddiard plays Lady
Jane! Fancy Fanny making up ugly! But wc
can’t fancy it; for she couldn't do it—or wouldn’t,
eh? And let us tell you that Howard Vernon is
Bunthorne (what, by the way, has become of
Maccullum ?), and that Nellie Stewart is Patience.
And Henry Marston, an old ter-ragedian of the
Phelps school, is dead; and Pattie Laverne is very
much alive, and playing in opera bouffe. She
reminds us. somehow, of the Batchelder Minstrels;
she will never die.
** * *
Bend your eye-glass down this way. J. B.
Steele is with the Polks in Adelaide: and, what
naturally suggests the item, Jack Steele is in
Adelaide with the Polks. And Jeannie Winston is
e tying in “ The Black Flag ”in Detroit; and Mrs.
ngtry is returning to England. And James
Allison (C.M.G.) has got another live years' lease
of the T.R., Adelaide. And the Marion Willis
orowd have been playing at Mount Gambier. This,
by the way, is a delicious spot. It is on the boun-
dary of South Australia and Victoria; and if you
want to hark back you have to travel over country
that has a desert in one part and a lake in the
other. You can see, any day, pros, walking, loaded
with “ props.,” over that desert; and if you waited
long enough, we have no doubt you could spot
some swimming across the lake, too.
#* * *
The Australasian is lavishing auy amount
of critical preservo on Pomeroy. And on her per-
formance of Lady Isabel, in “East Lynne,” too!
Sulphur! So let us say that Miss Flora Anstead
has made a big success d ce qu'il parait at the
Bijou in Melbourne. And while we admit that
this junk of French is getting rather familiar, we
will just slide in the information that Nilsson was
worshipped at ’Frisco, and that Mr. George Smith,
comedian, is at Dubbo. “ Henry V.” is still at the
Melbourne Royal, and John M’Culloch has written
a play called “The Wife of Miletus.” Grattan
Riggs is at the Princess’s, Melbourne, and Madame
Boema is singing at the Academy of Music, New
York. We’re nearly emptied out now; but we
don’t mind chipping in and saying—and quoting
Dr. Neild—that “ The Federal Minstrels at the Vic-
toria Hall continue their extremely interesting
representations with the gratifying and deserved
result of crowded houses. Brimstone! What is
this ? Not “ Tahite,” surely. “ Interesting,” “ gra-
tifying.” Oh!
** * *
Fred. Millis, we hear, is doing a big stroke
at Garner’s Assembly Rooms in Adelaide. Thus
our Adelaide correspondent, who would appear to
scarcely ever even sometimes. But what intrigues
us is that, after the “ King of Ventriloquists,”
comes—shade of departed demons!—the Fakir of
Oolu. In Perth (W.A.), from what we read, things
seemed with him, like the gentleman who lived
next door to Mrs. Nickleby, “ all gas and gaiters.”
We are not quite sure, by the way, about the gaiters,
but we are certain about the gas. The doctor (for
he’s one, too,) is going to give the Adelaideans the
“ Enchanted Princess,” and the “Crystal Fountain,”
and other “ startling novelties.” We have an affec-
tion for conjurors, by the way. We have liked
them greatly ever since we encountered a weird
old man up in Northern Queensland who had four
or five standard tricks. We encountered him, wo
think, at Beenleigh; and he was there “starring”
himself by means of handbills (all of which bore
pictures of the Royal Family in a condition of
ecstacy at his feats of legerdemain) as Professor
Osborne. That was his name, as near as wc re-
member; but, anyhow, as he is dead, we feel that
whether it is or not we can libel him with a cheer-
ful impunity. His paraphernalia consisted of a
couple of glass tubes, three tin cups, and a table
as full of traps as a grass-widow. Young, ardent
(and, we may add, blooming), we attended the per-
formance of the Professor in the dining-room of
the principal hotel, in company with the landlord,
the landlady, the groom, and a drapery-hawker
who appeared, by reason of his lavish expenditure
in liquor, and consequent fluffy articulation, to be
much respected in the district. The Professor,
was, we grieve to chronicle, in a condition only a
few removes from paralysis. But he was as brim-
full of confidence as he was of Mackay essence,
and the performance was the sublimest show we
ever witnessed. He had a marble about the size of
a walnut, which he put under a battered tin cup;
and then flourishing half a walking-stick, he said,
“ Parsh!” and then, on the tin goblets being lifted,
the marble was found to have rolled down on the
floor. He then commanded the landlord to pro-
duce refreshment of an alcoholic nature, and seiz-
ing hold of a glass tube, said—“ln thish tubsh’s
watersh: passh, and it’s rumsh.” Then he flou-
rished his bludgeon again, and sinking on his
chair, gave mournful and convincing evidence of a
terrible attack of locomotor ataxy. On being stirred
up with a pine batten by the audience, he, after
some moments, resumed partial consciousness, and
producing a glass ball, placed it on his table, and
crying “ Goesh! ’ ’ palmed it through a trap. This feat
would have been received with terrific applause but
for one circumstance. In driving the ball through
the table he fell over it. and the entertainment
closed amidst much hilarity. This show has always
(we don’t know why) reminded us of the Fakir of
Oolu. Only we never saw him do the glass-ball
trick. But we have seen him do a lot, and we have
heard Madame Oolu sing a lot, and so we thank
something they are here again—or near here. If
they were only quite here, we should, in our
frenzy of joy—to quote some American—“ nearly
caterpillar. A very good euphemism for “faint*’
this word; and as it is a comparatively easier one
to spell, it will probably become popular with hon.
members.
** • *
You shall hear this all from Brisbane.
Melville is an enormous success a ce [Ring it in on
some other dead or live language.—Ed. 8.l with
Boccaccio”; and we see that Monte Brown has
fipnet o Adelaide to fix things. And we also see
that Jim Kitts (who has retired several times from
the perfesh,” but has always been boosted out of
his pub. by dramatic hangers-up of liquid trifles)
is now managing for the fair—" fair,” when talking
of Miss M„ appears epidemical—Emelie. Zulu
Thompson’s show is travelling through Queens-
land; and things in the show line there seem gene-
rally lively. But not so lively as in Adelaide,
where the Strategist” gets nearly a column in
the Register, and the marmalade is spread on
nearly as thick as the skull of a Rum man.
Arthur Vivian gets a great lift for his Curate, and
Polk and Hall—but it's all quite too nice ever to
sing about. And before we give in entirely, let us
toss in the intelligence that Benhamo’s English
Circus is in Brisbane (just arrived); and also that
the Bernhardt-Damala row has reached a climax
and that the coffin will have, till further revela-
tions, but one occupant. Mr. Damala is, accord-
ing to latest accounts, engaged in sharpening
his sword for the deadly breach. He doesn’t want
to act any more. And quite right. If we had a
wife who could earn £BO a night, we shouldn’t
want to act any more either. But we are not sure
all the same, that we should want to sharpen our
sword. Though, so brave are we, that we’d even
do that if there were nothing in the bar-tending
line hanging out. “If you want valour,” as Bun-
thorne used to say, “ this is the shop for it.”
I will arise and go to my mother” said
James Service at Albury. The Y.M.C.A will he
for indicting him for blasphemy. VUI
No nervous sufferer of either sax over tried
a course of that agreeable and wholesome stimu-
lant, Woern’aSQHNAPfla, without being thankful.
It is now, and has heap for many years, a standard
professional remedy.
COl,
RUMfO?B
Prepared according to the directions of Prof.
E. N. Horsford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED FOR
DYSPEPBIA, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA, WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY, &c.
No Danger can Attend its Use.
Great Relief by Its Use.
WINSLOW LEWIS, M.D., of Boston, the distin-
guished and popular physician, said:
“Having in my own person experienced those
ills for which the Acid Phosphate is prescribed, I,
having found great relief and alleviation bv its
use, most cheerfully attest my appreciation of its
excellence.”
Indigestion and Bladder and Kidney
Troubles.
„ Portland, Me., Oct. 2nd, 1880.
Horsford’s Acid Phosphate has become a favour-
ite remedy in my practice. When completely tired
out by prolonged wakefulness and overwork, it is
of the greatest value to me. I have given it in
certain forms of dyspepsia, in all cases of nervous
exhaustion from overwork, in certain affections of
the bladder and kidneys, and have always been
satisfied with the results. I prescribe it more and
more as I become better acquainted with its pro-
perties. Of all the samples of medicine sent me
during the past dozen years, Horsford’s Acid Pho-
sphate is the only one I have ever found which has
become a necessity In my own household. Per-
haps I should hardly have been willing to write my
impressions of the Acid Phosphate if I had not
in my own person experienced its good effects.
C. O. FILES, M.D.
Derangement of Secretory and Nervous
Systems.
Rutland, Vt., Jan. 28,1879.
While I am exceedingly averse to giving certifi-
cates, and almost always decline to do so, yet in
the ease of “Horsford s Acid Phosphate, I am
willing to say, that, having used it very consider-
ably, I can testify to its great value in functional
derangements or the secretory and nervous sys-
tems. CHAS. WOODHOUSE, M.D.
Pamphlets, with full information as to the
wonderful curative properties of Horford’s Acid
Phosphate, furnished free on application to
BARRON, MOXHAM & CO., SYDNEY.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing)
2v£a,g"Lc Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMfitiY
Purely Vegetable* aad may be Used Internally
or Externally.
“ It Works liko a Charm/*
It is not an oily, greasy or stiofey Substance, biii
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one:
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches fire. It curcS
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Bruises, Toothache, Neuralgia;
Burns, Lams Back, Rheumatism;
Crisk in the Neck or Back:
As an internal remedy It tones and corrects th 6
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Nour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Throat, and Dypi
therla.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGlti
OIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use in
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers in
Medicines,
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported into this country, and have
gained throughout the colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected an<J
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest Stand-
ard make
Because the iron-work consists of thb vei'y besli
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. {
leather, and the upholstery is unique
BECAUSE the best of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their finish
BECAUSE they are eaoh and all built under special
instructions to, and personal supervision of,-
one of the leading carriage builders in America
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say they are the
BEST.
American Carriage Emporium^
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
BARRON, MOXHAM & CO.,
Sole Agents,'


BRIEF MENTION.
The Holy Howl says of one of its contri-
butors that “ he knows now to use his own quill.”
A goose-quill, we presume.
Poetical justice. A Sydney lodging-house-
keeper stabbed another last week. The dead
boarders laughed in their graves.
When the Czar was crowned, an orchestra
numbering 1000 performed in the square before
the palace. This is what scared off the Nihilists.
Dan O’Connor would not consent to the
Mayor being decked with a gold ohain. When Dan
becomes Mayor he will probably wear a string of
sausages.
The World says that “ after a day’s
fatiguing exercise, the right food, restorative and
Co ! os W®cideoljy hot He Uton
V 4f V«aTWW®rUj iou | f </»s*
> ' Of •«.
itieoL
MillJcfmily f ” r *'’ ,nxJ work m a
(rtt+dot>iW w ' lb 'JJ"’«H
° ai>ouf /ool^ier^
fbf i.nr^, ri ~, u . »///
u N" t- 1 R
'*nM» e J e Njrjed Y°± %
S H(IkA
"•""jv mi
f I vvoodTr w" «r 7j,* f -,/,) ( V^?, /t
w '"“Sy* T s ks t,J h l 1 ' 1 "^
a ,
V \PV*** # ! Jo"’' o *'*
\ \ i J h
»v
% %
fS'
3s^
- l0t n» - ovßv»C\s7 oh t-hoft y>tO^S
rn, Jty
“MISSUS”—From Sarah Jane’s point of view.
nourishing because of its richness, is a tame duck
braised with turnips.” And, after penning this
Apician paragraph, we suppose the writer went
home and dined off the scrag-end of the joint of a
sheep that had survived the Deluge.
A horse got on a Victorian railway line
the other day, and raced the train for two hours.
It must have been a lame horse, or an express
train: or, possibly, both.
The other day a cow escaped and made
straight for the Evening News office. And yet
the mistakes —-well, think it out, and when you ve
got it, send it round accompanied by a sandwich.
The Lismore Chronicle lyingly says that
“ in England there are two illegitimate children
born to every three legitimate.” It must mean
New England. Lismore is contiguous, or should
we say contagious, to New England.
We notice in Archbishop Vaughan’s paper,
the Express, that “ the Nun of Kenmare” reports
having been cured of a case of acute rheumatism
of the right knee, by kneeling at the holy shrine of
Knock. But, of course, she is knock-kneed.
A woman died the other day in a Southern
town, and her relatives, we observed, got a notice
put in the local paper which, among other things,
said “ she had never had a misunderstanding with
her neighbours.” She was probably dumb from
her birth.
The Fourth of July is approaching. Our
American exchanges are already beginning to liigh-
falute. They have reason. We think Americans
are in the van of progress. They can spit further
through their teeth than any other nation under
the sun.
Scene: Adelaide, S.A. She (speaking of
the gentleman’s absent friend(: “Oh, you know,
he has no social standing here. We never meet
him at Government House or in Society.” He:
“ No; it would be hardly possible. He is extremely
particular as to whom he associates with.”
The Evening News has discovered that
sausages made of asses’ meat are superior to the
ordinary sort. The Evening News is an authority
to whose dictum we bow—in the matter of sausages.
There must be joy in that office over this fact.
When the worst comes to the worst, the reporters
can draw lots, and eat each other.
Now that a schoolmaster has been adver-
tised for in the Herald, who will teach in the
morning and dig in the garden in the afternoon,
a certain journalistic Meceenas putin this announce-
ment:—' a dramatical cricket to drive
a kart during the day. Must find his own butes
and be able to rite poetry.”
“ Who are you winking at, madam at
me ?” said a Sandhurst solicitor—in defiance of
breeding and grammar—to a lady who had her
husband up for maintenance. “ I wouldn’t lower
myself to do no sich thing,” was the epigrammatic
response. He asked no more. A suggestive silence
followed, until he told the abandoned one to stand
down.
The Presbyterian Church in Wellington
(N.Z.) has resolved “to form a Tract Society to
meet Freethought and Spurious Christianity.”
This is good. It is about as good as a dam made of
these same tracts would be to keep out the tide.
But it is .good for printers. And printers are good
for publicans. And publicans are good for the
devil. So the benefit still remains in the family.
A German chemist has lately discovered
that gas can be made out out of sewage. We
don’t see why this should not be so, as it is the
[ material of most speeches now-a-days. Lord
1 Augustus Loftus claims the patent sofarasN.S.W.
is concerned. He was the first local man to make
gas out of sewage. The sewage question formed
the text of his first public after-dinner speech, at
the Town Hall.
In a Victorian town. A rabid Low-Church-
man was preaching. He does not approve of the
Museum being opened on Sundays, because
“ people could get no improvement in its musty
atmosphere.” Of course not. What they want is
a good hot atmosphere. This is to be obtained in
perfection only in such churches as that run by
this clergyman. These are built right over hell
for convenience. The devil has only to let the
floor drop.
We perceive by a cable that an aeronant
went up in a balloon attended by an actress, and
complications were the result, but they “were
rescued from their perilous position.” We are
half inclined to think all this is a mistake. Couia
it have been a jocose “local” transposed, and
originally meant to read thus: —“ An heir of
naught went down to Bondi, attended by an
actress, and complications were the result,” ete.
We have known this to frequently occur. It only
took a policeman, in these oases, when she ap-
peared on the scene with a copper-stick to “ rescue
him from his perilous position.”
A Presbyterian clergyman left the colony
a week or two ago to go home for the good of his
health. Before he went, he was presented with an
address, which complimented him upon his “ ex-
cellent qualities of mind and heart." And then they
handed him a testimonial. It gives us great
pleasure to see that this custom of testiinonialising,
which is as graceful as it is novel, has been accli-
matised among us. We like the custom so well
that we ourselves gave a testimonial to the dust-
man the other day. It “took the form of” a
volume of the same reverend gentleman’s aortnona.
We used it as a paper-weight previously.
Thus Thady O’Kane, apropos of a local
bazaar: —“ We have heard of bazaars where
‘ ladies ’ sold their kisses openly to the highest
bidder. One of the advantages of bazaars is the
fine opportunities given for unlimited flirtations
and pious • squeezings.’ Even ascetic disciples of
the Church have been known to melt under the
charms of the fair hucksters, and have longed for
and perhaps got a ‘ holy kiss ’ strictly on gospel
lines. None of your stage kisses, but quite
platonic, proper, and evangelistic. The noly
Roman bazaars can beat our Anglican bazaars in
this line, but the present one having all single
ecclesiastics, the fun for the girls is as goed as If
they were all priests. If those pious people had
wives, and they were present, there would be no
fun going.”


There is a Permanent Artillery Force in
Melbourne. The men are supposed to be “regular”
soldiers, although not under the Imperial authori-
ties. They are allowed out of barracks three times
a week in plain clothes. Victoria! How the
mouths water of those poor old fogies who are to
be found scattered through our Benevolent Asy-
lums and enjoying sixpence a day for life for the
crime of having more than held tneir own against
“ Boney’s ” marshals, won the Punjaub, or recon-
quered India! Only think of what they went
through to keep the old flag flying at a time when
putting on plain clothes meant 300 lashes and flve
years in irons! Times is changed, indeed, and even
the army must keep up with them.
The is no logic m the female mind. A
woman over in Victoria shot herself, the other
day, and left a statement behind her to the effect
that she had suicided because “she had led a
wicked life and was tired of it.” Why, a wicked
life is just the only kind of life to live to keep from
being bored. Good neople never enjoy tholr
existence thoroughly. They are always disrespect-
°J ST/, "
'*•« Un W “ e
—A}, r /'o/d , J A»o ( , '•
*'*-•'«.»' r :
W/;^^y 0u ,
h 'iT K —* fc * h T '
'•’•‘n'hj?,'* \[ 7 f" f»*>« SI.«I
/ Ps7wjp ii OMri ► * f,4r7 Ut ‘ i
« ') J Unas'-\*®'K-—^
*•*> trii »f
y?
L/ erojsjoyet- o<oej y»a |«r s/*
es WV.cUatt U;i s kto J.f to^h Tf
v ' -. J° l <r
boooo W } am
t: •***
*'<..?>>«. ,ri“ e
: /7jl' iLfjo*
<< 4,k | r
W 0r) r hp P fc 1 u '«^i
v hoce tgts P? J
*£*i fcSTXTt A. Mt
-■jj/C Ml 7 y J|s|j
's U e c/ifiit »[
.oil, aj;.
duiNj’
a '"' i"&r" M '•"•'
&zzZXX&®*iF
SUNDRY LEGAL POINTS.
fully alluding to this world as a vale of tears,
and putting up all their money on the next. But
wicked people live while they live and let the next
world deal with them as it pleases. It is with feel-
mgs of serene thankfulness that we contemplate
the fact that we have been consistently wicked all
our life, and that we have never allowed an oppor-
tunity of doing a bad action pass by us. Sin is the
sauce of life.—[We are not to be held responsible
tor the opinions of contributors.— Ed. B.]
Let us be genteel or die. The editor of the
Shoalhavbn News, who calls himself the ‘‘father
of the New South Wales Press”—a distinction
which Ancient Nicholas, as father of lies, has
good grounds for disputing with him—prints as an
item of fashionable news a paragraph to the effect
that “a young gentleman well-known in this
district, who was recently appointed a constable in
ttae Armldale police, has been granted twenty-one
ays' I care of absence for the purpose of visitb g
hoalhaven." The deuce, you say I Well, now we
hre really obliged to the Shoalhaven Ancient for
taking the initiative in this new style of speaking
about the polioe. They have too long been re-
ferred to by such discourteous appellations as
traps,” “bobbies,” “peelers,” and such like.
Bnt, if a constable is a gentleman, what is a ser-
geant? We should suggest that a new order be
created for their special benefit. And we should
further suggest that it be called the Order of the
Pork-pie.
A provincial journal writes regarding the
demise of a late resident“ His death has caused
quite a gloom over the city.” Why will people
say these things. It is quite time a stop was put to
this description of slip-slop. A money-lender dies
—a hard, grasping, unsympathising creature, who
would think no more of chousing an orphan out of
a legacy, or selling the mattress from under a dying
woman, than a bookmaker of running a “ stiff
’un,” or a policeman of swearing an alibi— he
toiled not. neither did he drop pennies into
children’s hats, nor present plugs of tobacco to
benevolent asylum patients—but his death “has
caused quite a gloom over the city.” This is the
sort of thing we are treated to with our morning
rolls. Will the time ever come when writers—
properly appreciating the dignity of their calling
—will refrain from such transparent—ahem!
Fancy a “gloom” being cast over Melbourne by
the shuffling off ”of Waxman or Herman ! By
the hole in our coat, this de mnrtuis nil nisi
bonurn has done more damage to society than the
Socialists’ petard.
The questions of correspondents to colonial
papers should never be skipped. They throw more
light on the oddities of human nature and conduct
than a dozen trenchant leading articles. One man
writes to the Sydney Mail, asking how to keep
the reins from entangling in the horse’s tail when
driving. And he is gravely answered: “It appears
that by properly regulated strings the inconveni-
ence can be got over.” But, surely, there are
other and simpler methods. The difficulty might
be removed at once by hiring a horse without a
tail, or by tying the latter round the animal’s
neck. Having no reins would also meet the case..
Perhaps the best plan would be not to drive at all,
but to ride. Of course, it would simplify matters
if horses had no tails ; but, like pull-backs and
improvers,” the derned things are in fashion, and
they will persist in them. Will no ambitious writer
take up the subject of “tails?” Surely Sladen
might say something on the matter. Is is one
which naturally lends itself to metrical treatment.
Our language offers any number of sound moral
words rhyming with “ tails.” Then look at the
opportunity for the play of imagination!
A new way for needy professionals to grow
wealthy has been discovered. It is simple enough.
Ride about in trains until there is a collision, and
then sustain a mental shock and sue the Govern-
ment. A tenor singer in Victoria got over £lOOO
for losing his voice through a railway accident the
other day. We know whole shoals of tenor singers
whose silence would be cheerfully purchased at
this price. And this recalls to us the fact—for it is
a fa o * - ;that not long ago a smash took place on
a New Zealand railway, whereby a whole opera
company was disabled. There was one member,
however —a chorus-singer, by the way—whose un-
disguisably robust appearance put - him out of
’ court in the matter of obtaining damage for
physical injuries, and whose voice nothing could
make worse—not even if in the excitement he had
swallowed the engine. Did these drawbacks de-
press him ? Hardly. He just mooned round the
town like a lunatic for two days, and then sent in a
claim for compensation for the loss of his intellect.
The jury awarded him £lO.
It was two days old when it died, and
this is what they said of it in the Births and Deaths,
&c., column of the S.M. Herald :
“ Sweeter than the flowers above thee,
Lying on thy still cold breast,
Placed by gentle hands that loved thee,
Our sweet Thomas gone to rest.”
Our sweet Thomas I Opr sweet sponge! This old
rickety epitaph is run in for everything, from a
highly respected citizen to a pet parrot or a favour-
ite mule. But what a little piece of pulp, with no
Particular shape and an unearthly capacity for
owling, wants to be wept over publicly in print
for we can hardly see. If they will do it, however,
",? ul( L su ?£ eBt something like the following, as
equally effecting and more appropriate:
Dead and gone is little Bob,
Nevermore we’ll kiss him;
He was such a little blob,
None will ever miss him.
Now, if this were a really Christian instead of a
merely professedly Christian nation, one man
might, perhaps, reasonably expect another to
imag e tears with him over the dead body of this
two-day-old little Thomas. We, as humans re S
spect the tears of little Thomas’ mother’and
lather ; but we don’t want to see the cold clay of
little I homas, and we don’t want to read about it
hi the Papers, and we don’t understand why little
Thomas father should thus obtrude his grief on n
cold and unsympathetic world at an expense of
five shillings per inch cash down. And this we sav-
in face ol the fact that we ourselves often fern
grieved at various things-so grieved that we are
quite sure writing and paying for whole columns of
the Herald s advertising space wouldn’t make us
feel any better. u us
HER TROUBLE.
She was very
Bright and merry,
Very gay and full of glee;
And so metty
That the city
Held none prettier than she.
Onihe “block,” sirs,
Swells she’d “ knock,” sirs,
King-street would be on longsmile-
All desiring.
All admiring
Her complexion, and her style.
But this bloomy
Lass looked gloomy
One day—we will say last week—
In a glass she
There did pass she
Saw she’d only rouged one cheek !


A FEDERAL FEED.
(Fhom ouii Travelling Missionary.)
There’s been a big drink on at Albury. It
was a Federal affair. Away down here In the
country, where thousands have patched for twenty
years or more the outcome of a bitter rivalry be-
tween people of kindred blood, and, in reality,
common interests—-down here on a spot for ever
rendered historic by the enterprise of bold pioneers,
though aftorwards “ utilised ” by political charla-
tanism as a starting-point of intercolonial rancour
—down hero at Albury, where the Murray flows
between the shores of New South Wales and Vic-
toria, there's been a big drink! The influence of
trade has done what so-called statesmanship failed
to effect. The railway systems of the two colonies
are united! And over the union tliore's been a
great shi vao; yet the big meu at it, who took uuto
themselves all the honours, were the identical big
men who all along had been the main hindrances
to its accomplishment. The affair was celebrated
by a great Intercolonial Guzzle; yet it needed a
minute from each of the Executive Councils of
the two great colonies to allow of the wliiskv
being admitted free, though it might soon after
recross the border slightly mixed.
• • •
Wodonga is the sentry-box of Victoria.
And it wants painting mighty bad! It stands two
miles away from Albury. Here, to this prosperous
little town, the Victorians pushed on their railway,
while the great statesmen of Sydney were wrapped
up in Bolving the question of how to reach Para-
dise according to Oily Gammon and the tenets of
the Temperance Hall, Twelve years ago, at
Wodonga, the centuries-silent echoes of the iprest
were awakened by the wheezing screech of the
Victorian locomotive. Then, for a while, in the
region north of Albury, the slow-and-go-easy
morohants of Sydney found themselves outwitted
by the Victorian trader. When “Constitutional
Reform" and the idolatry of “ Oily Gammon
began to loso their charms at Sydney, theN.S.W.
railway took up its Seven and several thousand
other Sleepers and walked. The locomotive dashed
OH, through the little kingdoms of agrarian lords,
from Goulburn to Wagga, slaked its thirst in the
Murrumbidgee, and finally put up at Albury.
* * *
Just as Wodonga is the sentry-box of
Victoria, so Albury is the citadel of New South
Wales. It is a citadel which itself won its own
honours. The comprehensive brains of some of
our statesmen never wont further than the
Ashfleld Parks, or the elysium of Youey Taylor at
Parramatta, “along where the eels sit down.
Albury has been a much beleaguered city.
It has been harassed, on the one hand, by
the most shameful neglect; and on the other
hand hampered by the most ungenerous legisla-
tion. All this country down here, Albury way,
was represented for years at Sydney by men who
first pretended to serve, and then grabbed it—men
who resolutely opposed railways lest the selector
should oome along and camp in its fertile plains
and valleys, to build a town where stood a forest.
Yet still the growth of Albury was vigorous. At
the present moment she possesses a more cute and
active political intelligence than probably any
other inland town In New South Wales. The rail-
way was opened to Albury on February 3rd, 1881,
but there yet remained a vexatious break of three
miles between the two termini. It was not Tom
Tiddler’s ground, but the Colonial Charlatan’s
ground, that had to be crossed—and it was low-
lying and intersected by a broad fast-flowing
stream. Now the river is bridged by a temporary
structure (the permanent one is to be finished
within four months), while a succession of viaducts
and a continuous embankment about two miles
long form the intervening link. The Melbourne
locomotive running on the wide (Irish) gauge of
5 ft. 3 in. comes up to the Albury station—the
finest, by the way, in the colonies—and the
Sydney locomotive runs across the Murray to
Wodonga on the standard English gauge of 4ft.
and it is strange to find that the N.S. Wales
trains run on an average several miles an hour faster
than the Victorian. The junction could not of
course be effected without dispute, the contention
l>eing on the N.S. Wales side that the Sydney train
should not go on to Wodonga—the Albury station
alone being equal to the public requirements;
while the Wodonga people’s argument was “a fair
exchange is no robber—your people have to go on
to your station.” This small disagreement, how-
ever, like tho hundreds of others that preceded it,
will be solved by expediency—and the Albury
people are for the nonce content.
* * *
The banquet was a big affair (for details
consult the heavy Press), one thousand and sixteen
were present—an equal number of political and
professional guzzlers from each side—many of the
latter being men who were born beneath the free
banquet table, the knife-and-foik men of Australia
Felix, the men who toasted “Mr. Chairman ” (hie)
when chop-sticks were in vogue, and who’ll keep
on toasting him through all time so long as
turkey ana fermenting wine shall make men
speak the thoughts they do not feel. It
was a great Union Banquet. The liquors of
the two colonies were blended Clements, of
Victoria, catered with Smith, the only Smith, of
Sydney—the N. S. Welshmen and Victorians sat
side by side (to watch one another, presumedly, for
the cutlery was good and the plate solid); the old
S” 'cally dead of both colonies had been resusci-
and assorted for the occasion—the several
speakers were of each colony alternately—the two
Governors wagged their Jaws within sound of one
another. Postprandially, it was a big yabber about
Federation, from the very moment that Lord
Augustus opened his mouth and began to talk
through his nose, till all was over, and the Federal
Feed nad goned afay in de ewigheit. There was,
moreover, a union of the railways. The locomo-
tives had whistled a duet that morning. Why
should not tho corkscrew give forth the same
music in the afternoon ? Ha! ha! Yes. there was
a great federation—a federation that left every-
thing as it was—much talkee-talkee about a union
which (so far as the people were concerned who
indulged in it) was all Bung!
• * *
The speeches on the occasion (heavy Press,
again, for particulars) evince a keen spirit of rivalry
between toe two colonies. And Victoria, no mis-
take, carefully laid N. 8. Wales out! And what
sort were the speakers? That’s what the people
want to know. Well—to start off-the “graft
Arghitect. of de univers ” in getting out our public
men appears to have had his first contract in hand.
And it looks as if ho had taken it under a paying
figure. These are the straight Albury banquet
impressions of your missionary. With regard to
the two Governors, both arc comfortable-looking
old boys, with fair round belly with good capon
lined, whose absence from Europe is probably not
missed more than their presence is felt in Aus-
tralia. Lord Augustus sneezed at the Queen—that
is to say, he proposed her health through his nose.
What took most in the speech of the noble Mar-
quis of Norinanby, and “gave pleasure to all,”
were the snail-horn curls which graced his throb-
bing temples. The Mayor of Melbourne, Mr.
Dodgshun, proposed “ The Old Guv’nors.” Mr.
Dodgshun is not handsome. He can only have been
elected Mayor in the interests of the comic papers.
The mould which turns out the Dodgshun stamp is
one which gives the world either a very dull but
fresumptuous man, or a political or religious
anatic. This will do Dogson, or rather Dodgshun,
for the remaining term of his office. The only
noteworthy thing said by either of the Guv’nors in
reply was this (by the Marquis); “Itsh a gratesh
thing thish ihuuction ofsh the railwaysh-ish, yes-
ish, the railwaysh.” Loud cheers greeted this
announcement, and, in the evening, a special wire
went along to Melbourne as follows: “Made a
great speecnsh; knocked old Gussy very loftysh.”
Lord Augustus Loftus made one of his usual
speeches -long and prosy—and neatly cornered the
Marquis by making him stand all the while. My
noble Lord, however, took his seat while the Mar-
quis ground out his compiled harangue—though
It's only right to observe that he woke up just
after Normanby finished, and stood to his full
height during the peroration, which completely
brought down the house, as well as two champagne
tumblers on the Vice-regal trousers (darn it,
more expense!) Lord Augustus Loftus omitted
one historic fact in his speech. He said Governor
Brisbane saw the establishment of trial by jury in
Australia. That's so. Hut it was in the Augustan
era, was it not, that journalists were jugged? His
Excellency might have remarked this. The
Honorable John Douglas, of Queensland, who
proposed the union of the colonies, was the
lirst to mount the pulpit-shaped rostrum. He
appeared to be a good old gentleman who
affects cloth-upper-toothpick-toed boots, and
thinks no colonial beer of himself. The hon.
gentleman’s voice is one remove from that of the
loud-mouthed parson. AVhat he said he probably
meant—though ho couldn’t repeat it now, if you
gave him a kingdom. Sir John Hay and Sir John
Robertson responded for New South Wales. Hay,
who is known to be a benevolent -'ooking gentle-
man who has carefully feathered his own nest,,
admitted that he represented both sides of the
Murray at the time of separation. Let this line
from his own lips be his epitaph. It was the selfish-
ness of the men at that time that begot the need
for separation. Sir John Robertson, who had by
far the best reception of any speaker, was not,
probably, understood by one man out of ten—the
reporters, however, caught his words. His best
point was that Victoria left them when they were
poor; but now, when New South Wales was rich,
she was anxious to come back, and the mother
colony was willing to receive her! The Hon. N.
Fitzgerald, M.L.C., and Mr. Service replied for
Victoria. Fitzgerald is a bigheaded man with big
ideas, and a big voice which was heard all over the
edifice and evoked rounds of cheers. What he left
undone in respect of contributing to the oratorical
competition, Service completed. Service isn’t a
statesman to look at. It would be well if the Mel-
bourne papers republished this fact as soon
as possible. He Is a man of small stature,
with a cold, bloodless face. He wears a
cheap coat and loose trousers, and boots of
the bay-window order of architecture. He wore
a new collar at the banquet. His eyebrows have
the peculiar nervous action which is only developed
in a man whoso face is constantly used as a mask.
His eyes roll as though to indicate that he’s not
always got them turned on political questions.
When speaking he stands on his heels. In oratori-
cal action a nervous St.Vitus-like twitching moves
the upper part of the body. His speech was a good
one, judged as a speech. It was popular banquet
oratory—and N.S. Wales suffered by the contrast.
The speech was genuine bunkum for all that.
Victoria would, he said, have a trade union, and as
a member of the Victorian Government he would
take an early opportunity of asking N.S. Wales
what she wanted removed. As if he didn’t know!
Service is one of the merchants of Melbourne who
is directly responsible for the existing commercial
hostility between the two colonics. His reference
to a Federal Parliament was not real; and as to his
“TOM BOYD,” THE VETERAN OVERLANDER.
earnest aspirations that he might meet the two old
Guv’nors on the other side of the stream and be
present as a member at a Grand Council of the
Empire in London, there was nothing in it.
* * *
It was just about this juncture of the
palaver that old Thomas Boyd (86 last Mav) the
only survivor of the Hume and Hovell party who
crossed the Murray in 1824, appeared on the scene.
Now, for about thirty years, Old Tom, in a brown
hat and sore eyes, had been roaming the country
in poverty; but, at the banquet, Sir John Hay
referred to him as “my old friend, Tom Boyd.”
This was honour for the old man. But what he
had been kept alive for all this time was now to
come. His reward was being unpacked—with care,
this side up. Tom was introduced to Lord
Augustus Loftus, Governor of New South Wales,
and the Governor actually gave him his hand !!
Tom’s surprise, when he found nothing in it, can be
better imagined than described. This was the
overwhelming honour reserved for Tom Boyd,
They didn’t even ask Tom to take a drink. By
the way, here are two little uuauthenticated
narratives about Tom and the banqueters that
haven’t yet got into print. Old Tom, when he first
went into the banquet hall, was put away in section
two, among some upstart chronic guzzlers. Ihe
waiters guyed him, and kept asking him : “ What
did he do with the old woman ?” “ Would he sell
his coat ?” “ What did he want there with
his gravy eyes.” “ S’pose yer came through
the boards, eh, Noah? or through the sky-
lights." Tom couldn’t understand them “Latin
dishes;” and, as no one could explain, he cleared;
and when the universal voice went up for “Tom
Boyd,” the said Thomas was found half a mile
away, discussing a circus-poster on a street hoard-
ing. The other anecdote consists of two fyttes.
’Tis said that, on Tom going up to the Governor,
a subscription was started for him, and £2 15s. 9d.
scooped in in the space of half an hour. Handing
the money to him, the while looking suspiciously
around, Lord Augustus whispered “Here’s two-
flfteen-nine. If you’ll take my advice, you 11
quietly slip out: if you don’t, they’ll probably
borrow it back.” The other statement, which is
probably the correct one, is that Tom offered a sub-
scription himself, putting a crown in his old hat to
start the affair, and then when the hat came back
it was empty. Houp-la!
* * *
Mr. Alexander Stuart and Mr. Wright, in
rather laboured speeches, further demonstrated
the inferiority of our politicians in oratorical effort.
When there was hardly a fellow present that could
tell the number of glasses he had had, it was
rather too much for Wright to proceed in a round-
about statistical way to give the number of miles
ol' railway, and the precise quantity of blue metal,
at present in New South Wales. Dibbs speech
was replete with good, hard facts; the matter was
well chosen, and dealt with comprehensively. In
figures. G. it. D. is all there; but when he goes
into poetry he goes to sea in his own boots. He
wound up his speech with a quotation from Went-
worth’s prize poem, which most people took to be
the Doxology. Two very fair speeches from Mr.
Kerferd (who is to Victoria what Wisdom is to
N. S. W.) and Mr. Gillies (a man who looks as if he
at one time owned a very hard head) brought
Graham Berry to the rostrum. It was Graham’s
idea that a rostrum should be erected, so _ some-
thing specially good was expected from him. It
was soon seen, however, that Mr. Berry was play-
ing a second fiddle with unresined bow—somehow
he couldn’t get the steam up. Berry it a fervent
man, who speaks what he feels, but he doesn’t look
much like a statesman. It would be well this fact
should also be published in Melbourne sans delay.
The assertion that Graham has lately got too big
for his boots is untrue. At the banquet, at least,
his boots were far too big for him. He is a pale,
half-fed man, with a nose like the gable-end of a
warped boomerang. He has a long head—only
it happens to have been squeezed the wrong
way. It’s often found, in consequence, to be
a little more lofty that his principles. Mr. Berry
was very well received. His speech was the last
shot in the balance that upset New South Wales in
the Demosthenic (arrah! Dan) contest. The con-
clusion your missionary came to was this: The
palm for oratory belongs to the Victorians, that
for statistical solidity to New South Wales. The
novelty par excellence of the banquet was not the
electric light, but the fact of a Judge proposing
“The Press,” with the air from the band, “There’s
a good time coming I” The fellow who arranged
the toast, was a genuine humorist! What! A
Judge to propose, in New South Wales, the health
of the Press!—here, in this colony, where for years
it has been silent grovelling on the part of the
Newspaper, and abominable ruinous persecution
on the part, of the Law! Hang out the banners
from the turrets of Darlinghurst Gaol, and give
back to the newspaper man the £3OOO crushed out
of him by the process of law! Judge Higinbot-
ham’s speech was to the New South Wales press-
men like a zephyr of succour on a parched desert
of trouble. It seemed to breathe a soothing “ ver-
dict for the defendant—no costs.” Air (to slow
music) “We may be happy yeti” Here endeth
the first chapter.
THE BALL.
Vehicles arrived early in the afternoon,
with loads of girls. The type of beauty about the
Border is solid. The girls are lively and entertain-
ing, good-looking-, sensible, and—here comes the
point—well-off. The Albury ball, if people will
have the secret, had at least twenty girls with
“ ten thou.,” and twenty more with five thou.”
And there were some that weighed nearly a ton.
Considering that both Sydney and Melbourne have
about “ twenty thou.” gay young sparks not worth
a copper, there’s an opening at Albury. Some
people came at eight, some at seven, some at six;
and the first score who came must have aggre-
gated an age that would represent about the date
40 b.c. It is unnecessary to say that in some cases
their costumes appeared to have been designed
long before Hume ever dreamed of the Murray.
Of course, these elderly people, all through, were
carefully shunted on to the Ministerial party. Mr.
Abbott, Mr. Trickett, and Mr. Graham Berry
“graced” the ball with their presence. Mr.
Charles Cowper and Mr. Charles Kahlo lent the
charm of their patronage. For the first hour, one
Minister was engaged in piloting a two-ton lady,
whose costume wo won’t particularise ; while a
party at the weather side of sixty hung on the
arm of another member of the Government, as he
described his impressions of Albury. A well-known
official enjoyed the confidence, for two hours,
of a bewitching girl who had apparently seen
the first white man across the Murray. A charm-
ing person in green and “ yeller,” or something
like it (weight 400 lb.), made a dead set on the
American Consul. It is currently reported that
she was able to make the Consul three distinct
offers of marriage before he was able to hand her
over to his friend Cowper. Mr. Graham Berry,
who is a gay old chap, was in nearly every dance.
He also was engaged for a time in the diplomatic
business of conducting a frivolous young girl of
fifty over two acres of pine board. The German
band was in attendance. They came all the way
from Sydney, and the woman who contracted to
keep them for two days is dead.
• * •
The attendance ran up to near 300 couples.
The oldest inhabitant (a female who was present)
had seen nothing like it. The electric light (Kings-
bury again) showed off immensely, but while it
gave additional charm to many a pretty face and
handsome face, it brought out in terrible relief
some of the costumes that had bewitched the
station-hand under the dazzling flicker of tallow-
fat. It showed the fairy from down the Lachlan
with flea-bitten arms, attired in dreamy blue, with
a tunic of prawn-net. Another, of the giraffe
species, was in lavender (previously black and
turned, and dyed, according' to the Down and
Gumtree) and yellow, with a spray of Bathurst
burr in raven ringlets, glossy with castor oil. At
refreshment, she merely smiled at a turkey —and
it gobbled no more. Yet another, dressed in some-
thing of the patchwork quilt description, seemed
bent on turning herself into a refrigerating appara-
tus. Ice cream was” hers.” What she most got were
cold looks from the waiters. In the cloak-room
several fashionable girls found that in mistake
some of the backwood maidens had jammed the
ham bones and jellies into the wrong cloaks. There
was no master of ceremonies —he was probably
timber-splitting, and couldn’t get in 1
• • •
The ball-room was beautifully illuminated,
and the floor in capital order. On the whole, there
was a flrst-class display of fashion, and for a mixed
assembly equal to anything of the kind in Sydney
or Melbourne. People came from the two cities
with their daughters, and all the best families
round about tne country were represented.
Many young fellows came in a lavish display or
the latest style. There were from ten to titteen
young brides among the throng, arrayed in their
bridal toilets, and, put together, these young wives
almost bore off the honours. But there were at
least fifty “ young things” who’d grace any ball-
room, whose dresses were in charming harmony
with modesty and beauty. A young lady from
Burrumbuttock wore water-coloured silk ana
cashmere, with embellishments of poppies : Miss
H., from Sydney (fine dancer), was in dark and
cardinal; a lady from Annandale in cream silk;
Mrs. Griffith in rich cream satin skirt, cardinal
bodice. Another dress of noto was a blue silkor
neat design, with wreath of sunflowers. A pretty
married lady from the “ Olives” wore a white satin,
richly trimmed with lace, half-low neck and short
sleeves. The graceful wife of a popular medico
wore her bridal dress of rich watered satin, and
attracted much attention. A bright young lady
from Tabletop wore a rich dress or maroon, em-
bellished artistically with crewel lace. Miss D.
wore a dress of violet, rich lace trimmings; and a
lady from Gerogery, a rich black with silver bead-
ing. Miss Edmondson, a pretty little lady, wore a
rich salmon-coloured satin with light pink.trim-
mings. Mrs. Smith (Sydney) wore a rich silk,
embellished with a smiling wreath of flowers.
Miss R., of Wallandool (a lively dancer), a rich
maroon coloured satin; Miss 8., of Gennanton,
prune velvet and satin; a married lady from .Bur-
rumbuttock, rich black velvet, trimmed with
satin. Miss Gordon (a graceful lady), in light blue
with silver trimmings, was very attractive; Miss
O'Connor (Wagga) was attractive in dark and car-
dinal ; Miss C., from Mangoplah, in rich light satin;
Miss 8., black and gold, and wreath of sunflowers;
married lady from Walla Walla, rich brown satin,
old gold flowers; Mrs. W., maroon and rich lace
trimmings; Missß., of Wodouga, wore white satin,
with coiffure of silver, and plucked a good many
hearts ; Mrs. Mereweather wore a beautiful
maroon, heightened in effect with rich <scru lace;
Mrs. Walder, maize satin; Miss Berry (daughter of
the Victorian Chief Secretary), a sparkling girl,
wore pink satin, and looked very charming; Miss
G. (Albury), wore a neatly designed pink satin;
Miss H. (Albury), black silk and cardinal ; a
Ballarat lady in ruby, plush, and cream ; Mrs.
Martin (Sydney) brought four daughters, all charm-
ingly dressed and graceful dancers; Mrs. S —-
(from Melbourne), one of the most stately and
graceful dancers in the throng, wore a rich claret-
coloured satin. Miss Heriot was very attractive in
pale pink with rich lace trimmings; Miss K.
(Coonamble) wore satin and magenta velvet; Miss
Fowler, two shades of pink; Miss Maher wore
straw-coloured satin; Miss Edwards, white llama
and cardinal velvet; Miss Day wore pale blue
brochf 5 , and was very attractive; Mrs. Dr. Ryan
wore a rich black velvet elegantly and tastefully
trimmed; Miss Dyer wore a rich gros-grain satin;
Miss M‘K. was bewitching in cream and cardinal;
Miss Lattin wore an elegant dress of cream satin
and nuns’ veiling; Miss J. (Albury) was attractive
in white llama and satin; Miss S. (Custom House)
was charming in maize-coloured satin of very
elegant design; and a sister in lighter satin. A
Dean-street Jewess was very attractive in her
bridal costume, long train: Mrs. M. wore an ele-
gant dress of satin and slight cardinal trimmings;
a rich dress was a navy blue velvet with skirt of
lighter material; Mrs. Abercrombie wore a
very rich black satin; Miss Wilkinson wore
a very elegant costume of white satin: and Mrs.
Butters (Melbourne) wore one of the richest
dresses in the whole assemblage : a light-blue
velvet, long and picturesque skirt, with rich lace
trimmings. The catering was done in first-rate
style by Mr. Smith, of the City Catering Company.
To the committee who got up the affair —in fact,
their own money down as a guarantee—the Albury
people owe everything for making the Celebration
Ball an event worthy of either Capital.
* • •
Next day, surplus funds were devoted to
treating 1300 children from all the schools in the
neighbourhood in the banquet-hall. It was heaven
to the boys and girls, and the whole thing was done
by the Albury people themselves]; and, as usual
with their independent little town, they made it a
big and most creditable success.
Mr. J. M. Macrossan.
From the year 1879 till within the last few
months, the Hon. J. M. Macrossan filled the
position of Minister for Works in the
MTlwraith Cabinet in Queensland. The son
of an Irish farmer, and educated partly in
Ireland and partly in Scotland, Mr. Macros-
san landed in Melbourne in 1853, and went to
the goldfields. The attractions of a miner’s
life carried him all over Victoria, New South
Wales, New Zealand, and Queensland. Pos-
sessing strong natural abilities and powerful
argumentative qualities, Jack Macrossan
became a popular leader, and, in 1879, was
elected, a miner’s member, to the Queens-
land Parliament. In this sphere, Mr. Macros-
san speedily made his mark as a fluent and
formidably logical and hard-hitting debater,
and ultimately accepted from Mr. MTI-
- the portfolio he the other day re-
signed. Mr. Macrossan proved a hardwork-
ing and capable Minister. He had the
character of being a bit of a Tartar among
the civil servants, but a man of strict just-
ness. Since his resignation, Mr. Macrossan
has, in company with other practical men,
entered upon a railway contract in this
colony.
The greatest appetizer, stomach, blood and
liver regulator on earth—Hop Bitters. Look for
and read.
A chancery suit of 23 years’ duration, hav-
ing terminated in his favour, Mr. Whiddon, the
solicitor, of Sydney, has (lucky man!) succeeded to
£60,000, which he goes home to claim.
Look at this, now. Jack Scantlebury has
scored a success with his show up North, ana they
are, we understand, going to ride back. This, as a
pleasing exception to the evolutions of travelling
companies, deserves to be chronicled. Josephine
Deakin has caught on in Maitland to that extent
that all the bank and post-office stalls linger nightly
round the stage door; much to the discomforture
of Jack, who wishes they were lingering inside—
and who has various reasons
Reasons all his own,
We’ll not tell a part;
Reasons that alone
Are graven on his heart.
Hem!
The Italia recently announced that Mr.
Schanassy, of Victoria, had been named a Com-
mendatore of the Order of Pio Nono. If the con-
verse of the Byronic statement be true, “ Thrice
happy he whose name has been well spelt In the
despatch,” it is probable Sir John’s manes is in a
terrible scot at such a monstrous perversion of
his name and dignity.
“ Alf” surpasses himself in his par. entitled
“ Garotters Flogged.” As David Buchanan perused
It, and took in all the adjectival grandeur and
sesquipedalian weirdness of the description—all
about the turgid and swollen flesh and facial
twitching—he murmured: “Were I not David I
would bo Alfred.”


FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
A Sandhurst gentleman has bequeathed
£lOO towards a prize fund for the central State-
school in that city— At Brundah Creek, a boy of
twelve kicked his younger brother in the region
of his liver and killed him.... When J. V. Mulligan,
the Palmer prospector, was storekeeping on the
Hodgkinson, he once included in a general order to
a Southern wholesale house, the item “2 doz. flat-
irons,” and they sent him two tons of the article..
The myalls have been sticking up and despoiling
the native police camp at the Valley of Lagoons.
Not long ago they speared a bullock or two within
the tabooed precincts of Police Inspector Carr’s
camp, on the Barron....On the Hodgkinson N.Q.,
in March and April, 1252 tons of stone were crushed
for 1094 ounces of gold, being an average per ton
of 17 dwt 11 grs We don’t think we should like
to commit suicide. But, fortunately for tho world
our prejudice is not universal. A man over In
Melbourne the other day cut his throat with three
table-knives. This Is said to have been a very
melanoholy affair: melanoholy for the hired girl,
who had afterwards to wash three knives where
one should have sufficed. But some people have
no consideration. We used to fear that some day
or other we might cut our throat with the edge of
our own wit. But now we don’t. W e know what
we are going to die of. It is a gloomy certainty.
We are going to die of D. B. W. Bladen's poetry...,
Mr. Robison, late editor of the D.N. Argus, Is
about to start a daily evening paper at Rockhamp-
ton 2000 cattle go forward from Queensland this
month to stock a station on the Alligator River.
Several stations on the M'Arthur and Roper will
be stoeked during the next twelve months A
Melbourne clerk lost £BOO in betting. That Is to
say, bis master did —Ah Jew, a Chinese prisoner,
got twelve lashes at Port Darwin the other day
Come over to me, boys. Never mind the Orange Heoge.
for disobeying gaol regulations When Mr. Hun-
gerford arrived at Normanton when he was
publicly hooted. At night a proposition to tar and
feather him was only stopped by the refusal of the
storekeepers to supply tar.... The O’Donnell and
Boyd exploring party when last heard of were cross-
ing the South Australian boundary, at Gregory’s
Creek. They reported having passed through
splendid country... .Carson, a Victorian embezzler,
had but one leg. Had he owned the regulation
number of limbs, he’d probably have walked off
with twice as much money The pre-eminently
alcohollo Queensland M.P. has been locked up
again The silver communion-service stolen
from Blayney Anglican Church, two years ago,
has been found in a hollow log three miles from
that town There are between thirty and sorty
candidates for the Scholarship open at the Royal
College of Music for South Australia on Sir Thomas
Elders endowment—At Waterloo, John Burns
wanted to kill his dog, and tried to cut off its head.
The canine retaliated by trying to bite off John’s
head, and more than balanced matters by biting
him severely in the lower lip, taking in a sub-
stantial slice of his gums. John went to the hos-
pital, and the dog still wags its tail A constable
was selling by auction the effects of Isaac Hines,
who was killed by falling over the Boileau railway
embankment, and was about to knock down a
stretcher upon which deceased died, for od., when
Jje noticed a piece of cloth sewn upon the bottom,
fna upon opening this, he found a deposit receipt
or SIM, find some bank-notes. Deceased has
no relgtiycg jn the colonies, but is known
%o have friend# in England Approximate
estimate of damage dpu.e to N.B.W. Technological
Museum by Garden Palace fire, £10,914195. 9d. The
**l9s. 9d." is touching proof of the caro taken in
making the calculation.... Mr. Bates, of Chrlst-
chureh, waited on his tenant, Mr. Buck, for pay-
ment of rent of an office duo by the latter, and
palled hjm “a old thief" because the money was
forthcoming. The indignant tenant
kicked his revered landlord downstairs, for which
action he was fined in the sum of one half-penny
steriing the following week at the R.M. Court...
ij remen at Cran and Co’s big sugar-refinery,
Bundaberg, suddenly struck for an extra shilling a
day, and stopped the works for twelve hours. The
two leaders of the movement, when brought up
as absconding servants, were fined £lO each. Re-
marks a local paper: “It is acts like this that pre-
judice the minds of employers in favour of
coloured labour, and we consider that the British
workman is doing all ho can by his insolence and
cupidity to strengthen the feeling. Coloured ser-
vants are servants—British are only so in name.”..
otephen MCann and Frank Butler, two whites,
arrested at Georgetown for breaking the skull of
one of their black boys, whose body was found in
the scrub. A black boy saw the murder, which
was done with a splinter-bar.... Coogarooroo, a
Gascoyne (W.A.) aboriginal, who killed Jacob, an-
other black, and partially ate him, has been con-
victed on the evidence of his own wife, and sen-
tenced to death .. Walker, the Temora burglar,
is a huge eater. One day, for breakfast, he eon-
sumed a quart of milk, two eggs, three chops, and
a „ loa f of bread; and for dinner, about 1 y* lb.
orroast beef (undercut), 2 lb. of potatoes, one
only of sago, a quart of tea, and half a loaf
The Evening News calls the Soir “ a little
Parisian paper.' ’ We wonder what the Soir would
call the Evening News First Citizen (skimming
Monday’s Herald, to Second Cit.) By Jove,
John Lucas is dead I” Second Cit.: “ Oh, but that’s
not the same.” First Cit. (dogmatically) : “ Must
be. The world is not big enough to contain two
*°,i .Lucases.”—John Molloy, carter, aged 27,
fell down dead on Saturday in the bar of the
Royal Standard,” Castlereagh-street, Sydney,'
while relating an anecdote.. .“Samuel Plimsoll,”
with 427 immigrants, arrived in Sydney on Sunday.
.... Adelaide jury’s finding in the Burrord nuisance
case :—“The defendant’s soap factory caused
unpleasant, disagreeable, and offensive smells to
people, but if it were removed the owners should
be fairly compensated.”.... A. M, Rampant declares
that ho possesses a means for rabbit destruction
perfectly unique. He maintains that this means
was discovered in the middle of the last century,
and that its secret was purchased from its possessor
by the French Government, by whom it was kept
a mystery. At the revolution of "JO he gays the
secret was only known to one of the pupils of the
professor with whom it originated, and the Com-
munists urged him to put it in practice. We pre-
sume M. Rampant claims to be that pupil.
Does M. Rampant know M. Matras f.
The amorous menial who recently caused so much
talk at Brighton (Vic.), is “ doing the grand” in
Sydney on the £lOOO paid him to “ make tracks."..
Thomas Ryan, tutor, a highly educated man, died
at Louth the other day. He had been existing on
alcohol, and camping out in the cold Forty-
three parents of Grafton summoned and fined for
neglect to send their children to school 5)4 carat
diamond discovered in Murrumbidgee district.
Church found guilty of embezzling
£l6OO from Messrs. Brown, shipowners, of New-
castle, whose Melbourne agent he was. Sentence
deferred till Victorian Supreme Court decide the
point whether the charge is not invalidated by the
fact of accounts submitted by him showing his
indebtedness having been accepted by his em-
ployers The bones of an elderly man of sandy
complexion have been found by Mr. Geo. Woods,
on Ballaroe run, Brewarrina. In the bowl of a
pipe near the bones,lwas found a deposit receipt,
dated 10th December, 1881, for £25 on the A.J.S.
Bank, Dubbo, in the left-hand side of the paper
being written “ Robert Walker.” There was no
swag, but a billy and pannikin, the latter having
“ Robert George, Macquarie River,” on one side,
• ‘R. George” on the bottom, and “R. G.” in
several places. The bones were scattered about
under a large box tree, it being but too apparent
that wild pigs had added another horrible element
t® the tragedy. Probably deceased died of thirst...
A three weeks- old child and a £5O note recently
found on a St.Kildadoorstop... .Jeweller Honrick-
son s establishment, Auckland, N.Z., burgled last
week; loss, £lsoo—Miner Williams, last week, fell
down a 90ft. shaft at the Corrangula antimony
mines, Kempsey district. Death immediate....
Chinese rioting at Port Darwin. Local gaol, with
accommodation for sixteen only, has now thirty-
four prisoners (twenty-two of whom areChinkies).
lorn Browne, twenty-five years a Darlinghnrst
warder, died last week, aged 80.... Head-teacher
Millard, of Lefevre’s Peninsula Model School, fined
Is., last week, by Port Adelaide bench, for caning
a scholar for neglecting home lessons... Squatter
Chirnside got up behind a bill for £BOOO to oblige a
friend, who says he only received £5OO on It from
Marks Herman, the Melbourne 1400 per shenter.
Chirnside defends the action brought against him
" —; we ™ e , an Herman—for the full figure
The master of the s.s. Alert, trading between Mel-
bourne and Geelong, was last week charged with
felling, out of a bottlo labelled “Mitchell’s
Whisky, an article that was not Mitchell's whisky.
An expert deposed that the whisky sold was
totally different to Mitchell’s. The ship’s steward
deposed he had filled the bottle with whisky from
his hotel in Geelong, and had only used the bottle
produced because no other was handy. The bench
—whisky experts to a man-dismissed the case,
remarking that the grog In question was much
better than Mitchell’s!.... N.S.W. Pharmaceutical
Society intend to submit to Parliament next ses-
sion a carefully prepared Pharmacy 8i11... The
Cobar district- squatters mean to fence their
south border against the irrepressible rabbit....
Smith, becoming puzzled amid the numerous
clauses and penalties of the Rabbit Extermination
Act, unconsciously exclaimed: “Thunk Heaven I
haven t money enough to support a tamo cock-
roach, let alone a rabbit.” Apropos of the stric-
tures frequently passed upon juries, we mav ex-
pect something similar to the following from
Liza’s young man in reply to the usual question
why the sentence, &c. “ Your Honor, after a
careful consideration of the case, I must certainly
express the opinion that I cannot concur in the
somewhat remarkable verdict of the jury; and I
can only imagine that they must have—er—thought
that I—er—committed the offence.” It is pro-
posed in Brisbane to raise £25,000 in £1 shares for
an ostrich-farming venture. The scheme is to
rent or lease 5000 acres of land, and to import ten
pairs of breeding birds, four pairs three-year-olds,
and thirty young birds—Near Walcha, a young
man named O’Neill was bucked off his horse, which
threw him against a tree and broke his thigh. He
lay out all night, and in the morning dragged him-
self to the road, more than half a mile away, where
he was found by a passer-by after he had spent
twenty-three hours amid snow and rain.... Some
idea may be gained of the fear in which dingoes
are held in the Bigga district from the fact that a
man who shot a slut got £l5 10s. reward.... The
accounts of an influential Government official in
the Wilcannia district show grave discrepancies,
which extend as far back as 1881.. .The Commission
appointed to take evidence at Apia, in the case of
Hunt v. Sir Arthur Gordon, has held its first sitting.
The character of the evidence already given is
said to be anything but favourable to the plaintiff
Meeting last Monday night at Exchange Hotel,
of those willing to join in an expedition to New
Guinea —Mr. Gerald Petre in chair. After discus-
sion, the meeting adjourned till Monday next
Gardner (accountant at Mint) v. Commission of
Railways: for damages sustained by being thrown
off tram near Kenny’s Hill. Plaintiff had given up
his seat in the only car to a lady and had gone on
to the platform. Mean defence to effect that
plaintiff nad no right to ride on the platform. Ver-
dict for plaintiff, £lOOO.
Carey, the assassin and informer, has been
offered a wardership in an English gaol. He has
refused to accept it. He is probably holding out
for a C.M.G.-ship. If he doesn’t got that, there is
always one situation open to him which we think
he would adorn. Marwood can’t live for ever
A lot of bakers in Adelaide have formed them-
selves into a society “for their own protection.”
We should now like to know who is going to pro-
tect the public. This sentence is written jauntily,
because now we don’t trust to bakers. And the
feeling is reciprocated. We bake our own bread.
Make it out of the office paste....A lot of prehis-
toric pipes were lately discovered in a river-bed in
France. Bible commentators over there are now
at daggers drawn over the question as to whethor
Adam blew the smoko through his nose or let it
out at his mouth in the ordinary fashion. It is a
pity that these dissensions should arise in a Chris-
tian community. Wo shall remain neutral In this
dispute until we hear Peter Campbell’s opinion.
The following was found in the hat of Holland, a
Liverpool suicide:—“To be or not to be wants to
be answered. Well, to be, then. I take off my hat
and retire. Here lies Holland and body full of
drink.... Here is a calculating critic. Honry Irving
has 1000 wigs. The critic or the Era has counted
them. A hen, according to Sir John Lubbock, can
count up to three; therefore, tho Era oritlo can
count more than a hen.... London dynamiters,
Gallagher, Whitehead, Wilson, and Curtin, sent up
for life last Thursday. Bernard Gallagher and
Ashburgh acquitted. ...Gladstone felled a cherry-
tree during the Easter recess, the main butt of
which ho presented to Burslem Liberals, who in-
tend to make a “plum ” of it by converting It into
souvenirs. Sir ’Enry might follow suit, and do a
good turn to tho Parkesians of Tonterfieid by
felling an ancestral liouk and presenting it to his
constituents. Perhaps, though, he might make a
“ hash ”of it—London brokers “wild 7 ’ because a
Reuter’s telegram prematurely announced date
and minimum of Victorian Redemption Loan
The coming king of explosives is blasting gclutine.
Nitro-giycerine and dynamite do not, when ex-
ploded, exert such a force as is commonly believed
The power developed by the explosion of a ton of
dynamite is equal to 45,675 tons raised one foot'
one ton of nitro-giycerine is equal to 64,462 foot-
tons; and one of blasting gelatine is equal to 71,050
toot-t0n5..... .In a recent House of Commons de-
bate, Dr. McFarlane, speaking from a medleul
point of view, said that opium-smoking did the
people of China very little harm. r.. At Northamp-
ton, two men, for stealing a watch and chain and
assaulting the arresting constable, were sentenced
to twenty years’ penal servitude! Dr. Ham-
mond, an American, who has been hanging him-
self over and over again and getting cut down bv
medical lnends before things went too far, says
that the pain of asphyxiated funnambulation isn’t
great, Wo now feel relieved.
bo, Sir ’Enrv is going home again. We
haven’t heard whether it is to take the Governor-
ship of New Guinea—float the Jervis Bay Coal
Company—or get John Brown’s billet.
Here are two serious matters. Dr. T. Hope
Lewis, the popular resident medico of Rotorii*
N.Z. (formerly of H.M.S. Cormorant), whole death’
we, in common with several other Australian
papers, reported in April last, writes us to say that
though he has been laid up he is still very much
alive, and looks forward to meeting more Syduev-
ites than ever at the hot lakes in the season Ha
is deeply gratified, he remarks, for the many letters
of condolence which have reached hi? family
circle. And then Mr. Henry W. Chapman, writing
from Goulburn, remarks that ho surely cannot be
r the peripatetic \V. Chapman referred to by ua in a
•Sundry Show ” paragraph, last week, in that he
(Henry W.) has settled down quietly, and has not
travelled for at least live months.


PEPPER AND SALT.
A correspondent sends us some verses en-
titled “Only a Steerage Passenger,” apropos of the
action of Captain Logan of the Union S.S. Co.’s
steamer Manapouri in burying a dead man at sea
instead of bringing the cold clay into port. There
has been a lot of discussion in N.Z. over this
matter. But we hold that when a man dies at sea he
should be buried at sea. Is it not better, Lycidas-
like “under the whelming tide,” to visit “the
bottom of the monstrous world” than to be
jammed into a deal-box and dibbled down into the
dark retreats of moles and maw-worms ? The sea
is clean, anyhow, and we have Scriptural guarantee
that it will give up its dead. And, by the way, what
weii d voyages a body consigned to the deep must
make; what desolate shores it must be drifted on;
what secret places of the groat sea it must dis-
cover; and finally, when the waves have left
nothing of it but the bones, what high-toned
bones these bones must be thrown into com-
pany with down in the ancient caverns of the deep;
what relics of predilu vian patriarchs and drowned
sea-kings! It is something to get into good society
even if ono is dead. And unless there be a chrono-
logical arrangement at the Resurrection, what a
pleasant thing it must be to pal in with the men of
the mammoth age, and hear them tell their mam-
moth lies on the way to Jehoshophat! As for a
steerage passenger being carried to land for burial,
wo think it absurd. A saloon passenger is another
thing. Saloon passengers are mostly rich, and
should be buried on land to make the earth rich.
Some men are born merely to make bone-dust.
Boarding-house Christianity is the newest
phase of religious revival, An advertisement ap-
peared in a contemporary, the other day, to the
effect that “a Christian gentleman requiring nice
home, where he may share society of other Chris-
tian gentlemen, may,” &c. This is nice : but it
doestr t delude us. Once when we were still among
the elect we replied to such an advertisement.
The recollection of what we experienced in that
holy h»Bh-house will never leave us while the
spark of life lingers in our tottering frame. There
were four other Christian gentlemen there beside
ourselves, and each of them was afflicted with a
most heathen hunger. The breakfast sausages
nsed to be introduced with a blessing ; and well
they needed it, for they looked as if somebody had
previously turned them blue with curses. We
used to get an average of about one each, with a
scramble for the odd one—ln which, to do the other
Christian gentlemen justice, they generally got the
best of it. Every other meal was similar in its
scarcity. But nobody ever complained except once,
when one of the boarders rebelled at a mutton bone
which he said he had seen on the table for a fort-
night. The landlady replied that such a thing had
never been said to her in her house before; lots of
people had stayed in her house and always went
away reluctantly. Which very probably they did:
nobody ever leaves cheerfully in a coffin. Then
she went into hysterics. And then the cook, carried
away by her feelings, got drunk out of sympathy,
and we got nothing to eat for the rest of the day.
Soon after, two or the Christian gentlemen left,
and soon after they left, we discovered that they
went away with our best overcoat, a pair of patent
leather boots, a hat-box, and all the handkerchiefs
our pious landlady had not cleared out in her pre-
vious raids. Next time we go to a boarding-house
we shall make sure beforehand that it is kept by a
uagjjin or an infidel. Advertising-boarding-house
Christianity is very good. So is cookery. But the
two don’t seem to mix well.
* * *
At the Richmond (Vic.) Town Council, a
few days ago, it was proposed that the town
inspector should look after vagrant cows on
Sundays. This was too much for one of the
Councillors, who angrily recorded his intention of
incontinently resigning should the suggestion be
adopted. It is whispered that he has an interest in
a neighbouring dairy. Be this as it may, it is cer-
tain that no Collingwood larrikin takes half the
pleasure in storming a Chinaman or doubling up
the froiit section of fours in the Salvation Army
that a cow does in loafing through the streets dur-
ing divine service on Sundays, examining the signs
and wondering who is so bad in the Methodist
chapels that the people are making such a noise,
there is a deal of human nature in cows. In the
matter of intelligence, proper justice has never yet
been done them. With the exception of a camel
or a larrikin, there is no animal that can be com-
pared to a cow for clearing a clothes-line. It is a
liberal education in natural history to observe the
manner in which she hypothecates and enjoys the
off leg of a pair of corduroys, especially when
there are sufficient patches and bone buttons to
act as a condiment. Some odd mistakes have been
lr L., e “bout cows. Most of us have heart how a lot
of the fine court ladies of George 111. played at
dairymaid to amuse “ Farmer George” and how a
Duchess, daintily got up like one of Watteau’s
shepherdesses eager to show her aquaintance with
rural life, gravely brought out her little stool and
milking-pail, and sat down to milk—the bull!
[This last verse is a lie. Added by me, the wife of
the wretch who wrote this, while ne is out gottimr
more rum.— Eliza Ann Mulligan.
Bridget: “Holy Moses! How am Ito shkin that?”
There is, up in Casino, a blackfellow called
Billy, who has a son whom he wishes to take to the
law. Billy believes that his son would make as
good a judge as any on the Bench. And possibly
Billy is right. Anyhow, we now understand why
it is that some of our judges are so ready to hang
blacktellows. It is simply professional jealousy.
* * *
The following blood-curdling item will
positively appear in next Thursday’s “ suckin
eedishin ’ of the Evening News: —“Juggernaut
again. Last evening, about twenty-one and a-half
minutes past five, another terrible fatal accident
would, but for the timely help of Providence, have
happened on the tram line to Mr. Donald Doodson,
an old and respected ttandwick resident, and a life-
long subscriber to the Town and Country Jour-
nal. It appears that as the Woollahra tram was
going up Liverpool-street, the brakes suddenly let
go to have a drink, and becoming* totally unman-
ageable afterwards, the engine rushed up the
ascent with terrific velocity just as the Kandwick
cars were coming down on a totally different set of
rails. Had the two trams been running on the
same track, and had Mr. Doodson been between
the two motors as they met, instead of being laid
up in bed at his mother-in-law’s farm at Liverpool
with a serious attack of the jim-jams, and had the
driver of one tram bee* colour-blind and the other
blind drunk, and had our friend, Mr. Doodson, in
order to prevent a catastrophe, courageously
Uaced his head under one of the wheels and tied
his legs in a knot round the other, and had his in-
surance policy lapsed a month before owing to a
totally unexpected fall in the egg and bacon
market, brought about by the scarcity of horse
teed and the sudden appearance of tuberculosis in
the hen fruit, and if Mr. Doodson wasn’t arrested
on the previous day for smashing a publican’s
windows and tearing a policeman’s jumper from
Dan to Beersheeba, and if twenty or thirty other
things had also occurred, we would now have to
chronicle one of the most sanguinary accidents
that ever brought disgrace and terror on any civi-
lised community. How long are such things to
last, and how long must we be ground beneath the
iron heel of a hellish despotism that positively
refuses to advertise in the Town and Country
Journal ?”
• • •
This is a Melbourne telegram “ A letter
has been found on a Pentridge prisoner addressed
to a young woman in the city, offering to marry
her if she sent him two figs of tobacco.” She will
get a cheap husband. It is four in the morning as
we write this, and we have no company but the
ticking of a ghastly clock and some unearthly
noises that made the skin of our skull creep as we
listen to them. And there is nothing stronger than
carbolic lotion in the house. At this present
moment wo would be willing to marry the weirdest
woman that ever walked for the sake of a bottle of
beer. That’s the sort of lofty moralists we are.
The discovery of a new beauty in Ireland
has caused almost as great a sensation as if a new
kind of potato bearing a bushel to the stalk had
been dug up. This is the age of beauties. They
are not born; they are discovered. This recalls to
us the fable of our nurse—dead, poor soul, of
drink, long ago—about babies being found under
cabbages and gooseba rry-trees. But beauties of
tfjo kind now in fashion are not worth anything
till they are fully developed; and very frequently
they are not worth anything then. But this is
irrelevant. As a rule they are gawky girls, all
knees and elbows, while they are in their early
teens. After they have passed this stage they
begin to grow plump, their feet flatten out, their
finger-nails grow long, their foreheads low, their
tapes expressionless, their mouths large,their waists
spidery, their complexions doughy, and then they
burst forth like Venus from her shell, and conquer
the world with their charms. This professional
beauty craze has developed a new kind of creature:
the critic of figure. Before it began, he probably
earned his living as a hairdresser ; and after
it is ov'er, he will probably have to go back
to the hairdressing again. He is in most in-
stances a large liquid-mouthed, gushing young
man, whose soul, though it thrills to loveli-
ness. is shaken to its centre by the smell
of steak and onions. You point out to him what
you consider to be a pretty woman. He laughs;
but he pities you. You are a Goth. What should
you know of beauty? Now, he can show you some-
thing that is really superb. He shows you a heavy-
eyed woman with a massive figure. And you are
expected to fall down and worship this Flemish
y < l ni J s because she is the fashion. Pshaw! If this
deluded woman had been left alone, she would
probably have made a decent housewife and a
good mother; but her head is filled with folly, and
she goes posturing about the country like a moun-
tebank, knowing nothing (we are willing to believe
tor the sake of what reputation she has left) of how
she is working up the death-rate. Women have no
to deliberately exhibit their beauty outside
of their own houses. If people outside happen to
thmk them handsome, all the better. The nomage
will be a graceful thing, being gratuitous; but it
becomes prurient when canvassed for. What are
all these exhibitions but caterings for animal
passion? And yet we British call ourselves a
moral race! This newly-discovered Irish beauty,
however, is said to be a real beauty. We are the
™°re willingly prepared to believe this, knowing
that the Irish, as a race, very rarely go mad
over anything but whisky and grievances. They
have gone mad over her, however. Crowds line
the streets to look at her as she comes out every
evening from her dainty duties in a flax-mill. She
has a pure Greek face, artistically arched brow,
classically pillared throat, and exquisite com-
plexion. So they say. They also say that her love-
liness surpasses that of any female the three
kingdoms have ever produced. The proprietors of
the mill in which she works allow her to go awav
half an hour before the other hands, in order to
escape the alarming onthusiasm of the public.
This must be gall for the other hands. It is stated
that when she went into a shoeshop lately she was
followed by several hundred people, and that at
last the crowd became so great that the police
turned out, thinking it was an Orange riot. The
I beauty had to be smuggled away by a back door.
Her own family and the other mill hands are pro-
bably the only people who don’t allow their en-
thusiasm for her to get the better of their dis-
cretion. We wonder what the lovely creature
I thinks about the matter herself. Probably nothing
at all. Probably her thoughts are centred upon
the time when she will get a rise in wages, and be
able to have sausages for supper.
CONVERTED.
We’ve been converted: yes, indeed,
We knew our ways were evil;
But never knew we at such speed
Were going to the devil.
He was a very holy man
Who took our case in hand, sirs—
His waist a clothes-line would not span—
The good old Broad Church brand, sire.
And, though we had been, until then,
As High Church as a steeple,
And liked to pray with cultured men
Much more than common people,
He said the fact did so much grieve
Him that we weren’t a “ brother,”
We thought we might as well believe
His way as any other.
And, after all, who cares the way—
But those who’re but a byword—
If by balloon or earthquake, say,
As long as we go skyward ?
So, seeing that he seemed to feel
So deeply on the matter,
And with such unremitting zeal
Did at our bosoms batter,
We said we’d let him have our soul,
To save it at his leisure;
And added that, upon the whole,
To miss it was a pleasure.
He beamed with joy, this holy man,
As him upon the look-out
Who first sees land; then he began
To worm his pocket-book out.
“ Now you are one of us,” he said,
“ You’ll not, I’m sure, refuse, sir” —
Our heart grew heavy here as lead—
“ Just now to pay your dues, sir.”
We paid, and thought, too, as we paid,
Of what just debts we did owe;
“ Kind heart,” he cried, “of course you’ll aid
The Orphan and the Widow.”
We aided them. “ Ah, now I see
Yours is a soul apart, sir.
The spirt of true charity
Its home has in your heart, sir.
“ You’re not the sort of man to leave
Religion in the lurch, sir;
This here's a fund-list, you’ll perceive,
For building a new church, sir!
“ You'll help up!" We did: and then,
In voice with sobs unsteady,
He said, “ Most generous of men,
Your soul Is saved already.
“ But there are other souls who dwell
In sin and darkness bound, sir—
You would not see them go to hell
For sake of (say) a pound, sir!”
Of course, we could not say that we
Would like to see them in it,
Though we’d have danced with joy to see
Them blazing there that minute.
We handed him the pound, and such
A smile his mouth did wreath in,
We wondered of that pound how much
Would reach the helpless heathen.
He said, as he did gaily shove
The bank-notes by and fold them:
“ You’ve laid such treasures up above,
There’ll scarce be room to nold them.
“ Now, but one favour more I seek—
The custom is colonial—
I leave the parish, sir, next week,
This little testimonial 1”’
We seized a hatchet by the heft,
And chased him as he fled, sirs,
And struck him on the skull, and left
Him laying there for dead, sirs.
We’ve been converted: and it’s plain
Now, sinners we’re the worst, sirs;
But who converts us once again
Will have to kill us first, sirs.
EREU!
The days when Love had wiugs
Swift as the bird of prey
(This simile’s not gay)
To sweep the skies, and sfings
Sweeter than sweets to-day,
Are gone, the poets say.
Forever lost and gone,
Passion, and dear desire
(This last line we admire),
Such as Anacreon
Sang in his songs of fire;
The Phoenix from the pyre
May rise, but Love no more
Love as of old shall be
(We’re warming up, you see);
Men love not as of yore,
Their suit is, speaking free,
Just “ How much coin has she ?”
And maidens marry age
For cash without a sigh
(We’re getting dreadful dry),
And in their gilded cage
They sit and pray and sigh
For the old man to die.
TIIE EAR[?]CIN.
“ A monkey outside of the cage,”
All will allow
Who see him grin and gape; ex-
lteptile of a former stage,
And now
Of apes the ape-x.
THE LITTLE SINNER.
He was a little sinner,
So everybody said,
A very bad beginner
In life: his little head
Would fit a noose, they said.
They said that he was callous,
And very badly bred,
His end would be the gallows,
And hell his final Z
So everybody said.
With husks of swine with strangers
His stomach would be fed,
And in the midst of dangers
He’d eat his bitter bread —
So everybody said.
He was the worst boy ever
Was born—an imp instead
They’d choose—of worse they never
Had ever heard or read —
So everybody said.
And, as they felt the suture
On top of his small head,
They said that, in the future,
Salt tears he yet would shed—
So everybody said.
He’d lay him down and languish
Upon a thorny bed,
In sorrow and in anguish
When all his friends were fled—
So everybody said.
There was not any doubt that
The devil’s net was spread
For him: but, e’en without that,
Thereto he would be led
By his own crimes, they said.
And, at the very last, when
His wicked life was sped,
Each passer-by would cast then
A stone upon his head
In sign of scorn, they said.
He grew up: good wine quaffed, and
These hungry prophets fed;
And lived, and loved, and laughed, and
Was canonized when dead —
As they, of course, had said.
HER DYING WISH.
Shone the moonbeams very faintly
On a face serene and saintly;
On a girl’s face like a flower far too fair for long
to last,
And their pallid silver fingers—
Lol how lovingly each lingers!—
Touched her cheeks and told the story she was
dying—dying fast.
At her bedside stood her lover,
Stood and bent him down above her,
Strikon sore with bitter sorrow, writhing in the
clutch of grief;
Then she whispered “ Best and nearest,
Do not mourn for me, my dearest;
I shall soon be up in Heaven, where all pain finds
sure relief!
“ But, before I do forsake you,
I’ve one last request to make you ”
“ Name it, dear, he said; “I’ll do it if it’s in the
power of man.”
Then once more he bent above her,
And she whispered to her lover:
“ When the funeral takes place, dear, keep as sober
as you can!”
Mr. DeCourcy Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining- Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 126 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Departments undertaken. Titles a
special ity.— Advt.
It will be remembered by many that Bur-
gess, the arch Maungatapu murderer, said, just
before he was hanged, that Sullivan, the informer,
had killed lots of men besides poor old Jemmy
Battle, and that if his (Sullivan’s) garden were
searched the remains of fifteen victims would
be found. While some digging was proceed-
ing the other day in a garden attached to a
house formerly occupied by Sullivan, a skeleton
was discovered. The skull had been cleft—appa-
rently with an axe. Sullivan, who after his release
was hunted all over the colonies like a wild beast,
has now disappeared.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREIIOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief;
a small bottle often cures. Ask for
and get it; spurious imitations are sometimes
offered.
Many people who talk glibly of “ tar and
feathers” have little real idea of what it means-
think it’s rather uncomfortable, and very undigni-
fied. Ah! it’s torture; the body of every man has
more or less a crop of short hair all over, and when
the tar hardens a bit. the slightest movement
causes acute pain, as if the separate hairs were
being pulled out with pincers. Then the tar cakes
stiff. It stops the perspiration; it gets in the hair,
beard and eyes, causing maddening discomfort,
while almost impossible to remove. And the smell
is dreadful. It takes days of clipping, scrapihg
and rubbing with oil to get the coat off, and the
skin is sore for weeks after. [A country editor
supplies this item.— Ed. B.]
Nowhere perhaps has the dentist’s art obtained
such high excellence as in Sydney. Certainly we
are in no sense behind any other city. Visitors to
Sydney might, to test this, visit the establishment
of Messrs. Adolphe Gabriel and Company, 18 Wyn-
yard Square, two doors from Pfahlert’s Hotel.
Here the manufacture of every essential in the
profession is carried on. At the rear of the surgery
is a compact little factory where all the requisites
for supplying every dental defect in the human
mouth are made. Messrs. Gabriel and Co. (whose
only address is as above) are always pleased to
show their specimens of artificial teeth to those
interested. There being two firms of the same
name in the Square, patients will oblige by paying
particular attention to the Christian name. Adofche
and the number, 18, two doors from Pfahlert’s
Hotel.— Advt.
The other day, a publican lost £l5 at
“crib.” to two of the talent; and as they drove
home that night, they made merry regarding the
manner they had “had” the boniface. Their
cabman, though, happened to be the publican’s
Jehu m ordinary, and, as soon as he had deposited
his fares at their destination, he harked back and
split.” The next morning the cheque was
stopped; and as a good deal of ready money had
passed over the counter, and into the publican’s
pocket, he had considerably the best of it. So the
members of the talent seemed to think, for they
drove up straight from the bank, talking blud-
geons and rocks. But they didn’t use any. The
moral here, if there be one, is to never talk about
any villainy with the trap-hole of a safety open
and the cabman’s nose brushing the crown of your
hat. We never do. If we wish to conspire for
the commission of a crime of more than ordinary
magnitude, we do it in church. A shilling bestowed
on the pew-opener will at once procure, in a well-
cushioned hymn-box, the seclusion which not even
a cabin grants. Then, while you smell your hat
you can plot, in safety, the murder of John Lucas’
During the responses is also a good time. While
the Litany is going on, a pious church-goer could
evolve a gunpowder plot. We compassed the
deaths of all the poet-contributors whose bones
lie bleaching in our yard while helping to swell the
volume of song when the psalms were on. Those
were good old days, we can tell you ! They were '
We had a very strict organist, and he insisted we
shouid all open pur mouths as wide as possible.
And we opened them so wide during the anthem
that, viewed from the front, we looked, for all the
world, like a pianoforte key-board. How we did
plot in those tunes ! Alia ! When it wasn’t treason
or murder, it was love. The way it was done was
by not singing the words of the anthem as set
down by the poet, but a composition of our own—
a private one. For instance-“If you’d like a
drive to Bon Bon di, at the inu-se-ee-um corner
mee-eet at three-he.” Then the reply—“ I will I
will, I will not—[a trernorj-fail.” [Joy.] Yes •
capital place for conspiring, the choir : especially
if it be well stocked with baritones, and the or-
ganist has a mania for hauling out the stops. The
next best place to a church, we consider, is a
boiler, it having been first cleared of the aris-
tocracy.
~D ÜBLIC NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 483 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
Oil, TWO DOORS NORTH OF OLD SHOF


Shawfleld Recreation Grounds, Glasgow, Scotland,
again attempted to lower Lang and Richards’ joint
record of 4m. 1734 s. for a mile, but failed, as it took
him 4 m. 21 s. to do the distance.
Myers, the American flyer, has offered to
rul i English champion, three matches
at 1000 yards, 1200 yards, and three-quarters of a
mile—between August 15 and September 30, at the
new Manhattan Athletic Club Grounds (N.D, the
general managementand arrangement of the three
meetings to be the same as at those of last year.
Thus the “ Professor ” in the Melbourne
Sportsman: “ Sir, Having severely sprained my
nghthand m the late glove contest, I have to ask
r ' . rn Postpone our wrestling match
trom «3rd June, to some future date to be agreed
upon. An answer from Mr. Blackburn or his
representative will oblige. Yours, etc., William
Miller.
A 20-miles swimming match for £2OO took
place at the Lambeth Baths, England, on 30th
v in 1 ’ potyeenW. Beckwith, champion swimmer
of England, and Matthew Webb, the “hero of the
Channel. Webb took ill in his twelfth mile, and
retired, giving Beckwith the match. The winner
did ten miles in sh. 20m. 575., twenty-nine minutes
ahead of his rival. Webb is evidently breaking up.
This is certainly a wonderful age for sport-
ing champions. Archer, Hanlan, and Sullivan have
made more money than old-time sports could have
dreamt of in their wildest bights of imagination.
The manager of Point of Pines, U.S., in speaking
or the Hanlan-Kennedy race—since won by the
champion stated that the successful rower would
reoeive the largest sum of money ever awarded to
an oarsman.
E - Myers, running from scratch, won
the six-hundred-yards’ race at the handicap sports
of the Manhattan A.C. (U.S.), April 21, in lmin.
lo a-oseo. The best English professional record is
lmin. 13sec., by James Nuttall, and the fastest
amateur record in England is lmin. 14 3-6seo., by P.
Elborough, both made under highly favourable
conditions, while this was Myers’ first race of the
season. The latter’s best time for the distance is
lmm. 112-ssec.
With a view to showing the absurdity of
stopping pigeon-shooting while permitting other
sports of a like nature, Mr. Monk, one of the few
members who spoke against Mr. Anderson’s bill at
its second reading, gave notice in the Commons
of an amendment making said bill apply to anyone
who promotes or participates in the coursing of
hares or rabbits which have been kept within any
enclosure. The effect of this would be to put an
end to coursing meetings.
The idea recently started by Mr. N.
Lookyer, of holding a professional rowing regatta,
cannot be otherwise than a success judging from
the experienced committee who have consented to
act:—Messrs. P. J. Clark, J. P. Garvan, S. H.
Hyam, N. Lockyer, J. Spencer, F. Thomas, F.
Punch, and A. Green. It is proposed to extend the
racing over two Saturday afternoons, a handicap
outrigger race to be rowed on the first day, and
to make the steamer money pay expenses and
prize money.
On Saturday last the Redfern and Univer-
sity Football Clubs met on Moore Park, and after a
great struggle the match resulted in a draw, each
side kicking a goal. The match between East
Sydney and Northumberland, also decided on
Moore Park, was won by the Home team by five
goals fourteen behinds to two goals four behinds;
and the Burwood-Wallaroo match, played on the
Association Ground, ended in a decided victory
for the Suburbans by ten points to nil. At the
two Moore Park matches, the crowd could not be
kept back, and in one instance it prevented Uni-
versity from obtaining a touch-down, which would
have won the game for them.
The next meeting of the N.S. Wales Cours-
ing Club will be held on Mr. M’Quade’s enclosed
ground at Windsor, on 29th and 30th June with the
following programme:—An Unlimited Puppy
Stake at £3 each; the Metropolitan Stakes, for
an unlimited number of greyhounds, at £5
each, which is open to the members of any
recogmsed coursing club; and the Windsor Stakes
for 32 of all ages, of £1 ss. each, the greyhounds to
be the bona-fide property of residents of the
Hawkesbury district. The winner will i-eceive £l5,
S 1 piece of plate value £25, presented by Mr.
H. M Quade, M.L.A.; runner-up, £7 10s.; two dogs,
three guineas each; and four dogs £1 ss. each.
George Seward, the pedestrian over whose
alleged 100 yards in 934 seconds there has been so
much controversy, died at Birkenhead, England,
on April 10, in the 60th year of his age. Seward
oix - I c £-Bet and very muscular man, stood 5
feet 8)4 inches high, and weighed list. 51b. He was
peculiar in his habits, and trained but little for his
undertakings; he lived widely different in those
aays to other pedestrians, and partook very spar-
ingly of animal food. The English sporting papers
give him the credit of doing 100 yards in 9J4sec.,
120 yards in 11345.ec., 200 yards in 19J4sec., and a
quarter of a mile in 49sec. We hardly believe that
any man has ever run 100 yards in less than lOsec.
in Seward s celebrated race the time-keeper made
it under lOsec.;” but a bystander said it was
9J4sec., which was ridiculously made a record.
The result of the final heat of the sculling
competition for the Champagne Cup was a sur-
pnse. The race was viewed by the general public
from the s.s. Gleneig, and by the Press from the
Prince of Wales. The competitors got a fair start
at the hands of Mr. Cope, but as the steamer
stopped to pick that gentleman up, the scullers
were a long way ahead before way was again got
on to the press-boat. Gaden jumped away with
the lead, but, at Lhr’s Point, Brett had taken first
position; Middleton and Walker (the only Victorian
representative) being about level. At the mile
point, which was passed by Brett in 6min. 45see.,
he was leading Gaden by a length, Middleton close
up, and Walker three lengths away, evidently out-
paced. Gaden then cracked, and Middleton, pass-
ing him, drew up, challenged Brett, and, at Tenny-
son. took pride of place. Walker, at this point, fell
out of the race. Thence to the finish what was
apparently a great struggle took place between
the two leaders, and Middleton landed by a bare
half-length one of the most exciting races ever
rowed over the champion course, in 23min. 23sec
splendid time, considering the race was rowed on a
flood tide.
The new five-ton yacht lolanthe, the latest
addition to the Sydney Squadron, built by Fife of
Fairlie, to the order of Mr. E. Smith, of Howard
South and Sons, arrived safely at Melbourne on
the deck of the Buninyong. According to Mr
Smith’s instructions to the builder, who had carte-
nlanrlie, she was to be turned out as the fastest
five-ton racing yacht which had yet left his hands,
and if her maiden trip may be accepted as a cri-
terion of her speed, she will comply with that in-
struction, for she is said to have sailed the voyage
from Glasgow to Liverpool in 23 hours, or about
three hours less than it ordinarily takes the steam-
ers trading between these places. With a long
counter, she is 38ft. over all, 32ft. 1. w. 1., sft. llin
beam, and 6ft. 6in. extreme draft. The deck is
plainly fitted, and has cockpit, hatchway for cabin
entrance, skylight, &e. The cabin, divided from
the cockpit by a bulkhead, is very roomy, contain-
ing berths, lockers, &c. The fore cabin has accom-
modation tor a man, chain lockers, stove &c
The spars, rigging, and sails are brought out also!
and the last-named two suits—one for cruising,
and the second for racing—are by Lapthorne and
Ratsey.
Says “ Robin Hood ” in the Australasian :
—“ I cannot help remarking that the public have,
beyond doubt, to some extent lost faith in Fred
Archer. Now, Ido not for a moment think there
is any real cause for this, and I hope the victory of
Galliard may remove it; but it is generally be-
lieved that 1 red. Archer has a large interest in the
horses trained by his brother, and, therefore, in-
stead of an animal shortening in the price current
with Archer up (as was the rule a short time ago),
the reverse is often the case, if Charley Archer
has in the same race a much-fancied and heavily-
backed candidate. This was particularly the case
last year, when Wallenstein beat Fortissimo for
the Manchester Cup, and again in the Two Thou-
sand Guineas, Galliard declined from 3 to 1 to 9 to 2
in the last half-hour, As it turned out, Galliard,
as mentioned above, won by the jockeyship of his
rider, whilst the brother’s horse was nowhere,
p.rdi it is almost a pity F. Archer does not declare
that he has no interest in his brother’s horses (if he
has none); for, after all, however much of his
career has been above suspicion, there are certain
to be the worst of rumours the first time a horse
ot L. Archer’s (heavily backed) just beats by a
head another prominent favourite ridden by the
brother.”
“Mortlake,” in the N.Y. Spirit of the
Times, in advocating the use of heavy boats for
beginners, gives the following anecdote:—” The
greatest waterman of modern times, one of the
most accomplished scullers the world has ever
known—Casaraajor, of the London R.C.—had, I
believe, his first apprenticeship In an old water-
man s fer-y boat. The story runs in this way: He
was too poor at the time to afford boat-hire, and
he used to go down to the Pool, at London Bridge,
take the first skiff he could find (it was after dark)
and do his little bit of pulling - . There had been
some robberies from ships in the Pool, and the
River i once were on the watch. Suspecting poor,
innocent Las of being concerned in the pecula-
tion, they g:ave chase. Fear stimulated his ener-
gies, and ‘he plied his oars with such skill and
dexterity that ’—he never stopped until he reached
Putney. What do you say V The River Police?
«r h ’ & e ?A tl , le > 7 save ir up after a mile or two.
Would Las ever have become the famous sculler
he was had he begun his novitiate in a ‘ shell ?’ Of
course not. The young men of the present day,
however, think they know more than ‘Cas’ did.
Look at Bubear, the latest case of all. He may,
doubtless, become a celebrity at no distant date.
He was a member of a tradesmen’s club at Ham-
mersmith. He first learned to scull in a heavy gig.
But there, the theory is sufficient; its realism in
practice need not be instanced. It would be a
waste of words.”
One of Miller’s backers has written the
following letter to the Melbourne Sportsman :
* *1 r n your excellent report of the glove con-
test between Miller and Foley, as well as in your
interesting 1 remarks thereon, you give both con-
testants credit for the manner in which they car-
ried out their portion of the affair. There is one
matter, however, in connection with the Anal ar-
rangements to which I would call your attention,
and in which I ask your opinion. From what I
can learn, the day after the contest Miller, the
referee, and a prominent backer of Foley’s met
together. No one else was present. When they
came out of Tattersall’s it was announced that
"U 6 contest was a draw. It was soon after stated
that Miller got £l5O of Foley’s stake. Eventually
it leaked out that, notwithstanding the nominal
draw, Miller obtained the whole of the stakes.
y°w, sir, why was this so-called draw made when
the one man got the whole stakes? To me the
matter appears thus : —The Foley backers said
make a draw of it, and you will got the stakes
Ihis will enable us to get out of our bets, and it
will enable you to give your stake-tinders just
what you like. In other words, make a draw of it,
throw over your backers and so save us, and we
will give you the money as a present, so that you
can get off easily with those who put the money
up for you. Is not this the plain English of the
hole and corner settlement?—Four, &c„ A Disap-
pointed Stakefinder.” We were the first to
point out that Miller completely threw over his
Dackers.
Melbourne is boxing-mad. Never before
were so many black eyes seen in the streets. Miller,
Newton, and in fact all the professional athletes,
have the benefit mania. Newton and Nathan’s
benefit was a funuy affair. The latter, who as a
public speaker resembles Larry Foley, introduced
1 j various pros, in a very characteristic manner,
and Newton returned thanks, he being the Red-
mond of the crowd. His oration took place after
the wind-up between himself and Abe Hicken,
which was the draw of the night. He (Newton)
“sntkmed that he was willing to box Christie for
a £lOO trophy, and that Nathan would box any-
thing up to 9st 81b, in Australia for £lOO aside:
whilst Hicken was willing to meet Foley for £5OO
a side. It was explained, in a Chesterfleldiansort of
way, that loley’s alleged excuse—being afraid to
visit Meibourne-was “all bosh,” and that Hicken
would box five weeks after the first deposit was
paid down. A day or two afterwards, Mr. Newton
was seen with a much-damaged phiz. It wus ex-
plained that an impromptu box had been arranged
between him and Hicken, and that the latter, who
was in by far the better form, gave his friend a
dressing down. Another account says that it was
Newton who dressed Hicken down—knocked him
into a mummified condition. However that
may be, we don’t want to see any match be-
tween Foley and Hicken. The last one was quite
decisive enough for us. By the way, since the big
match, a great difference has arisen between
Miller and liis stakefinders, who make remarks
concerning their proWg6 of a by no means compli-
mentary nature.
Ausent-minded Party : “ Hum! This is pre-
cious annoying; here I’ve come away
and left my watch on the dresser. Won-
der if I’ll have time to go back after it.”
(Takes it out of his pocket to see.)
The Referee
SPORTING FIXTURES.
[We Khali be glad to have this index posted up
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general.)
RACING.
Lower Clarence T.C June
Bowen T.C. (Q.) June 27,
Barringun .1. C June 28,
Burke District J. C. (Q.) Jnly 4
Barcoo R.C. (Q.) July 5
Clarence River J.C. Annual July 11,
Rockhampton J.C. (Q.) July 12,
Clarence Tattersall’s. July
Deniliquin J.C July
Charters Towers J.C. (Q.) July 17,
South Warrego J.C July 18,
Great Western Towns J.C. (Q.) July 18,
V.R.C. Steeplechase Meeting- July ;
Victoria R.C. Winter JulyS
Goodiwindi Races July 25, i
Tattersall’s Club Aug-ust 1
Hawkesbury R.C.. August 23, i
A.J.C. Spring Septemb«r 1,4, 6,
Northern J.C September 19, S
Sydney Turf Club October
Victoria Amateur T.C October 13, 2
Victoria R.C. Spring November 3,6,8,1
Parramatta J.C. November
Clarence River J.C. (Amateur) November
AQUATICS
M. Scratch Fours June 2
Glebe Rowing Club Amateur Regatta July 1
New South Wales Association Regatta . .October
COURSING
Victoria Club July 18, August 2*
South Australian Club June 12, July 1
Ballarat Club June 28, July 26, August 2!
N. Club June 28, July 3
Australian Club July 27, August 2S
ATHLETICS.
Forty-eight Hours Sweepstakes, Parra-
matta June 2
T. Noud v. Donoghue, 150 yards, £2OO,
Boorook June 23
A. Noud v. C. Donoghue, 150 yards, £lOO,
Boorook. Juno 23
J. Dunn v. T. Stephens, 200 yards, £BO,
T Bpmbala. June 25
J. Aplitt v. F. L. Robertson, 150 yards, £2OO,
Bourke June 26
Boorook Athletic Sports June 23
South Grafton Athletic Sports July 13
J. Aplitt v. T. M. Malone, 175 yards, £2OO,
Botany July 14
Grand Athletic Handidap, Grafton Race-
course July 14
Six Days’ Walking Sweepstakes, Sydney
August 6 to 12
BICYCLING.
Sydney B.C. Sports August 4
FOOTBALL.
South Melbourne v. Sydney Clubs, As-
sociation Ground July 7,10,12,
south Melbourne v. New South Wales,
Association Ground July 14,
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS,
Champion pigeon match to he shot at
Goulburn in August next.
Ned Trickett all through tipped Middleton
as the winner of the Champagne Cup.
Little Jack has been sold through Messrs.
W. C. Yuille and Co., and is to go abroad.
Great dissatisfaction was expressed at the
starting at the recent Hinton Regatta, and some
ugly assertions were made in regard to it.
The English twenty miles’ professional
bicycle championship was run at Leicester on
April 14, and was won by R. Howell in lh. aj^sec.
H. M. Cansdell, of Sydney, was billed to
appear at Miller’s benefit in Melbourne, on Satur-
day last, as champion amateur gymnast and weight
utter of New South Wales, open to compete
against any man—bar Miller—for a gold medal.
At the Epsom (Eng.) Spring meeting, Mr.
'V. A. Long’s Tonans, with 7st. 61b. up, ran a bad
tilth for the City and Suburban Handicap, won by
Lord Rosebery’s Roysterer; and at the first New-
market Spring meeting, his Burrell also ran fifth in
the Stud Stakes.
Among the mares nominated for the V.R.C.
Mares’ Px-oduce Stakes is Messrs. C. and A. Finlay’s
American sister to the great horse Foxhall. After
arriving in England from America she visited the
well-kown English horse Hampton, and is ex-
pected to foal to Australian time.
William Cummings, the famous Scotch run-
ner, who has the best record at a mile (4 m. 16 1-5 s.)
and a mile and a half (6 m. 43i s.), ou 7th April, at the
A SPORTING LYRIC.
Want a sporting’ lyric, do you ?
Want a spirit-stirring lay
That will thrill right through and through
you ?
You shall have it right away!
What you ask, sirs, needs no shunting,
No evasion. We reply
That we once went out a-hunting
Of the warlike walla-by.
And we brought along a bottle,
Brought along a bottle tall—
We were wise as Aristotle
Ere we started off at all.
There were shooters, there were drivers,
And their captains, and what not—
But somehow we were contrivers
To stray off and lose the lot.
If you ask us how it ended
And how many head did die—
You must not, sirs, be offended
At the tone of our reply:
Don’t know anything about it—
Don t know anything at all,
But we simply—can you doubt it ?
Drank that whisky. That is all.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Tom Spring, the well-known Coomarunner,
and M'Kernan, of Micalago, race 150 yards for £lOO
a side, at Cooma, five weeks hence A fight, al-
leged to have been for money, took place during
church hours, near St. Paul's, Maitland, on Sunday
week. Ten rounds were fought, when the sponge
was thrown up Thus the Newcastle Hkk,ai,p:
A dyspeptic leader writer, not far from where
Burke and Wills died, moralises on the terrible
degrading (sic) exhibition of the Miller-Foley spar-
ring match. He exhausts his dictionary of denun-
ciatory adjectives. Now, as a matter of fact, the
writer of this column of apron-string twaddle
could hardly lift a six-pound dumb-bell over hia
head to save his soul! Physician, heal thyself, we
say. Cure the indigestion, and don’t be jealous!”..
lhe pigeon, King William, owned by Mr. W. Wil-
liams, did 39 miles in 28min. the other day Joe
Thompson’s action against the South Australian
Racmg Club has been further postponed until the
"°th June— Arrangements are now being made
for the proposed four-oared race between the
Sydney and Melbourne Telegraph Offices. Mel-
bourne Bob Edwards has ottered to take 10sec
start f rom any Australian sculler, bar the Shark-
islander, over the champion course, for £3OO. We
fancy M‘Donald could “ put him through.” Zulu
is doing regular work on the Hon. John Eales’
private course. He is quite sound at present....
Wcckes, of Adelaide, has become the owner of
another jumper Triplet, to wit—having* given the
long figure of 350 guineas for this hurdle mare.
Kajmer will now have his hands full, if he means
business. Edwards states he is) willing to meet
him for £350 ; and O’Leary ditto for £3OO, in three
weeks tune. ...WaggaCoiirsing Club’s first meet-
ing, 13th June lor the First .Stakes, £4 each, 16
dogs entered, Richard Cox’s (of Marrar) dog Ranker
won, Cummins’ Shade being second. In the extra
eight-dog stake, Lewis Gormlea’s Gately won
Foxes must be getting rather too plentiful in Viol
torn. The Messrs. Ross recently killed one with a
ka "**roo °*? a station near Carainut, and on
the same day the superintendent of Barrabool
Station, Chatsworth, killed another A Victorian
paper states that Millor, the “ big sweep “ man i£
on the look-out for a property in the tVestern dii!
bc!ho ° n Th hlch t0 i stiirt horse-breeding on a largo
v The rearm ? of thoroughbreds will, no
doubt, be gone in for, but the main idea is the
breedingot horses suitable for the Indian markt
....At Goulburn, recently, two men were sei
tenced to fourteen days’ each for stealing tw
coeks noted lighters. The Goulburn Bene
rb l ,v.?^ t L h f Ve . I sympathy with sport.... Th
Bat coo Racing- Club have received twelve entrio
for the Hurdle Race, sixteen for the Flying Hand
cap, eight for Sires’ Produce Stakes, fourteen fo
Railway Stakes, eight for Mares’ Produce Stake*
tflPrWnr nL Handicap Steeplechase, and seven
i L f °V the Bareoo Racing Club Handicap..
A ploughing match took place near Parrainati
I Power ee who J hn h H n oh tl it nßer^ easlly beat Matthew
power, who had challenged to plough anv in>i
in Australia for £2o—lf I,ay cock did the 'L’rick-ai
home, can it not be said that in passing the Beao
with a Rush he showed the wisdom of Solomon ant
that the Messenger trom the colonies Pearee-d th
Power of the old country scullers, fairly Hearn-i
fin- himself the approbation of Australia ? H
Pri who was chairman .
the Q.l.c. settling, spoke in lavourof the total
Mat the 4 y “fc* 11 * Payment on horses firs
having severely sprained his left knee.. D. John
won the Wombat pigeon shooting match
AtHomebush on Ihursday last, Furlong defeafec
Hilliard in a hundred and fifty yards spin for £&
: Mr ’ Adams > commercial traveller, whils
watching a game of quoits, at Narandera, wn
struck upon the top of the head by a quoit throw
wide of the peg. Mr. Adams probably owes h
escape f js®' n . ( ;® ath Jo th e possession of a very thie
nominated for the V.R.C. Mares Produce
TnJn 88 f 9 i- a £ e ln the came of Mr. Andrew
Town, of the Richmond Stud... .Sunshine, ridden
by a lad named Rose, at the Steeplechase at Wynd
ham races on Saturday, turned a complete soiner
sault, coming down noavily on the lookev whn
was killed on the spot . A Victorian hd’liHrd
P la y®r named Charles Memmott beat Harry Grey
an Adelaide lad, in a match for £lOO aside! which
took place at the Globe Saloon, Adelaide. The
play was exceedingly good on both sides, and th<
game was only won by 61 points. Grey, who i
BDot e shf!t o Hnd a ho d^ O H e i K °,? d deal of t'me to the
particular stroke. made breaks of « aad 78 off thi
• • •
D . r : Carver has issued a challenge to the
£^ ld t^ O iimn t Q BIi 1 i ,0 i C vJ ay , pi^eonB each ’ for from
±-2UO to £lOOO aside, the dootor conceding throe
Y ard B to his opponents This we olir
from The World:-" The Australian orickete a
are supposed to be discontented with thS
£ioo they received apiece as the outcome of
n * Groat Britain, and are understood to
threaten not to come again unless some larger sum
is guaranteed. These, bo it understood, are gentl™
men cricketers; of course, excepting iWierman
The Australians undoubtedly snowed us how tc
P|? y koen cricket. in more ways than one; but
otherwise the good they did us by their visit is not
perceptibie Is regards their keenness, when they
have played 50 years or so longer our antipodean
n!r nB 7^!I 0 doubt be just as lacking in fresh-
ness and enthusiasm as we Britons are now. In
matters of sport we are bias<!, whilst America and
Austral are still in the vigour of youth. Therein
bc '® ~t b® difference, —John Greaves, a Pieter-
burg reisuleut, writes: “I believe my ride
back from Cetewayo s coronation was one of the
quickest things ever done here. It was over 15S
miles, through a most hilly and broken country
and was accomplished on a pony only 131 hands
b i£ b: r with m y saddle-bags, blankets, and macin-
fojbl must have weighed at least 18 stone. The
last 90 miles I did without a rest, except the con
of the p J ny for a frinkand a'
roll. I started at 4 a.m. one day, and got into Pieter-
maritzburg at 6 ami. next day, making 26 hours in
the saddle. —.Prince, the bicyclist, while in
America, offered to ride any trotter 20 miles even
up, for £lOO a side.... AloitJlausch? of Cleveland
0., is alleged to have recently drunk 155 glasses of
beer, and eaten eight dishosof oysters one evening
after . This completely puts the Honorable
• k’ M.L.C., into the snade—Tom Cannon lur-
Wlnn , er , 8 I r°f the Welter Handicap, Wood-
- B ,ld e. .Pla tC; and Welter Race at Croydon, Eng
April 5. Cannon is having his share of good for-
tune... James Mace has instituted suit in the
American bupreme Court against R. K. Fox, of
the N.Y. I olxce Gazette, for breach of contract
claiming s.>ooo .. • Hanlan and Lee have been prac-
tising In a double-scull shell. The American
papers state that, though they have not had much
practice together, they row beautifully. Iloubie-
sculiing is, to our mind, the prettiest rowing done
The London Spouting Life has joined the ranks
of the dailies. Its first issue of the new series whs
on March 27. Hitherto, the London Sportsman
was the only sporting daily in the world.. The
late Prince Batth yany 's biggest win on the English
turf, on which he was conspicuous for thirty years
‘“1875. when his.horse, Galopin won the 6ml,y
and beat Lowlander in the great match.. .A grand
assault-at-arms, under the patronage of their ltoval
Highnesses the Prince and Princess of Wales the
Duke of Edinburgh, the Duke of Cambridge? Field
Marshal Commanding-in-Chief, &c., was recently
given at the Royal Albert Hall, London, in aid of
the Egyptian War Fund. Some capital boxing took
ffiaee, Bat Mullins being amongst the exponents
.... * red Archer s first year of married lif e opened
auspiciously by his win of the first of the “el issie’’
races on Lord Falmouth’s Galliard. This is the
third time Lord Falmouth has won the Two Thou-
sand, and in addition he has won two Derbys four
Oaks, and three St. Legers The Postmaster
of® t° f E ?« land baa - ‘8 said, bestowed a badge
of merit on Joseph Kirby, rural postman for the
Deeping district, who timing the past fourteen
years is estimated to have walked one hundred
thousand miles A 20-mile bicycle v. horse race
took place at Boston, U.S., April 21, between C J
Young, bicyclist, and Thomas Walsh-F. Ware of
Newport, furnishing the horses. The race was
well contested, but the horses were too much for
the bicyclist, who was beaten several laps. Time •
horses, 1h..5J4m.; bicycle, lh. 9m. 555. Dr. Cortii
has twice ridden the distance under the hour
The Chicago (U.S.) Summer Trotting meeting
which commences on July 14, is to extend over
hT during that time something like
£lO,OOO will be trotted for, the principal events
being two £lOOO purses, free for ail There will
alsobea £OOO purse, for five-year-olds and under,
T h the winner of the fastest heat if
.juder 2m. 185.... Fordham, who rode Hauteur in
the One Thousand Guineas, had ridden the winner
of that race on six previous occasions.
Poolamponk.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O'brteht;, though far, the evening star
Before us shows her sheeny glamour;
And on the rocks, with grinding shocks,
The froth-topped breakers hoarsely clamour.
On hills beyond, the fern’s frail frond
Bends bowing in the wind’s embraces;
And tossing pines are wreathing lines
Grotesque in air which leave no traces.
The dark comes up, and fills the cup
Of Day with draughts of gloomy splendour:
And wild and free, this witchery
Of Night enfolds us tranced and tender.
By ocean’s marge our fate looms large,
Sad tones vast Nature’s voices take on:
But, tell the maid, when supper’s laid,
My dear, to fry that bit of bacon.


SOCIAL.
Mr. H. Giltinau’s annual ball took place in
t'he Oddfellows* Hall on tho 12th Juno. It was a
plain and fanoy dress diversion, about seventy
Pr«»nt, and Callaghan spread the supper table la
his lnimi-table stylo. The talented but modest
Hermann led part (a very small part) of the City
Band, and the music was merry. Programmes were
pretty, so were those who filled them, and dancing
was kept up like fun till nearly four o’clock. Miss
Simpson was a Spanish Girl: and Miss Duff, in pale
blue and spangles, was Starlight. Miss Long went as
Patience, and if Job’s patience had been half as
sweet, he would never have let go the way he did.
Misses Sutton, in pale blue tarlotan and pink
tarletan, were charming, most suttonly; while
Miss Higstrim looked higstrimly well in blue silk
and gold sash, and excelled in dancing. Mrs.
Giltinan, In black silk, and Mrs. It. Giltinan. In
ruby velvet and cream satin, looked nice. One
gentleman represented Bunthorne, but ho was so
thin that he looked more thorne than bun —till
supper came. Miss M'Mahon was also considerably
attractive in drab silk and gold, and the remaining
ladles had various charms that are much easier to
appreciate than to explain. Ladies and gentlemen
wore about equally divided, so nobody could
repine; yet, when one young man put his name
thirteen times on one programme, he seemed to be
rather too protectionist in his ideas for this free
°°4 n trv. No right-thinking youth ever keeps
soribbiing on a carte-de-dansc so long as to cause
Pttople round about to think he’s making out an
invoice. The ball was easy-going and pleasant,
and Mr. Giltinan is popular.
• • •
An excellently-managed affair was the
Owl Ball, and tho committee quite merited the
succoss which attended it. It was their second
annual ball, well attended, and with a large string
band, undor Charles Huonerbein’s directorship, for
the dancing. Callaghan's catering was dono in a
liberal manner, and tho ales and the soda water,
and tho fire-water, and tho wine that maketh glad
the heart of man, were all provided in a separate
room, which is a good plan, os it divides the crowd,
and diminishes tne chances of those unfortunate
spllllngs which spoil the dresses, and make the
ladies sad at heart under their forced-up “no
matter” smiles. On the prettily designed pro-
gramme, tho name of the piece of music was set
against each dance, an idea which helps to foster
little sentimental fancies, and suggests—oh, un-
spe&kablo boon! a ready topic of conversation
with your partner during those awful pauses that
will occur sometimes even amongst tho best re-
gulated couples. Only six waltzes were inserted,
and no unusual dances, except the Surprise Quad-
rille. And this was an ordinary one, the “surprise”
being part of the preliminary process, when tho
young man is negotiating for a partner. Two com-
mitteemen went round with baskets of light toys,
one supplying gentlemen, the other ladies, and
then the former had to walk round looking for the
duplicate toys held by the latter, and the holders
of duplicates became partnors, minus the usual in-
troduction. As the toys consisted of tiny trum-
pets, tin whistles, bells, squeaking dolls, and other
small pieces of cacophonic mechanism, which
everyone operated on simultaneously, the concert
produced was of the most impressive kind. We
were favoured with a wonderful piece of
machinery having a baby’s rattle at one end, and a
small trombone at the other, which we boldly
tooted round, and performed on assiduously. But
we never found the lady who had our duplicate.
Most likely, she didn't survive; or if she did, she
was probably too beautiful to be wasted on us,
and some rival had taken her. It was when we
couldn’t And our partner, that we went and found
out where the fire-water was kept, and that it was
good, ltound thenichos in the vestibule the rendez-
vous were indicated by black and gold cards, and
"apt alliteration’s artful aid” was called in
to produce such titles as the “ Lyre Bird’s
Lair,” the “ Emu’s Exit,” Mocking Bird's Mazo,”
“ Eagle's Eyrie,” and so on. Some of the even-
ing dresses were worthy of description. For
nstanoe, on a matron, a lavender silk and foulard
polonaise to match, was line; so was a black satin
hidden under masses of black Spanish laco, and
trimmed with pure white passementerie. A young
married lady of Kedfern wore a beautiful cream
broeW with train; and a well-known bello, of
Market-street, white satin, lace, and pearls, all
superior and sweet. Her brunette sister wore a
skirt, showing rows of cream lace, and a peaked
sleeveless bodice of chaudron broch6 (new copper
colour) edged with tabs, lace just showing beneath
the tabs, and underneath again hip, paniers of the
brlght-hued broch<s; gloves matching in colour
ana reaching up to the lace sleeves. Another fine
dress, on a handsome Hebrew lady, from Castle-
reagh-street South, was of cardinal satin, piped
with pink, erewelled border to the tunic, and
edged with white lace. A sister-in-law displayed a
ricn chocolate broche and white lace, pink wreath,
Miss O’Connor was Olivia Primrose; Miss Agnes
O’C., an Ambulance Nurse, in black merino, white
cap and apron, and the merciful red-cross badge
on one arm; Miss Alice O’C. was Jessie (in “ Man-
kind ”), a capital make-up. Miss Smith took the
part of a Village Girl; Miss E. Smith, a Cantiniere;
Miss Flotcher, a French Peasant; Mrs. Minett,
Maritana, a well-carried character; Miss Davis, of
Wollongong, a Hungarian Peasant of the most
charming sort; and Miss Hayes, Queen of the
Mountains, in soft white fabric, covered in a
unique way with real ferns and wild flowers, with
a pretty wreath over a pretty face. A costume of
salmon-pink satin of a new shade, trimmed with
flowers, was very nice, on a musical brunette; and
others were—a Student, Fancy Fayre costume,
Neapolitan Sailor, Patchwork, Cavalier, and a fine
violet plush aud lavender silk from Botany. A
pretty little brunette wore a cream satin and lace,
with a tablior of splendid crewel work in varie-
gated colours, which attracted many admiring
eyes. An exceedingly stylish dress robed the tall
form of a belle from Kew (V.); it was of cream
nun’s veiling and satin trimmings, hand-paifited
sash, and round the neck, skirt, and elbow sleeves,
were ploats of satin with lace to finish, flowers on
the shoulder, and the costume was worn with ex-
quisite grace. Of course the emblems of the club
were there on view, in the shape of stuffed and
various other owls. Humming Bird played two of
his own eompositions; Redwing and the Lyre were
masters of ceremonies, and it was nearly live
o'clock when th® company dispersed, fully satis-
fied with all they had done, and seen, and enjoyed.
• • •
At St. Peter’s Church, East Maitland, on
the 13th inst., Miss Kate Brown became Mrs. 8. H.
Delaru®. The bride wore an exquisite dress of
©ream silk and moir*, and a richly embroidered
veil, with the orthodox wreath. Her sister and
only bridesmaid looked well in a-nellie-gant
silk, and silver flowers. The bride was the
recipient of many valuable gifts, and the happy
pair spend their honeymoon at Mount Victoria.
• • •
A most enjoyable At Home was given on
14th June, by Messrs. M’Mullen and Hughes, at
Moroton Park, near Campbelltowu, when a hun-
dred and a half of guests shared their hearty hospi-
tality. Among the Items were a drama, songs,
recitations, a farce, and lots of dancing right
through the night, to the careful playing of Miss
E. Campbell. Other amusements were provided,
and a capital refreshment table, and as ladies were
not scarce, every element of fuu seemed to bo
there.
An imposing chess tournament, with
human pieces, was fought at Christchurch, N.Z.,
lately, before a crowded audience. The “pieces’ 1
were ushered in by a herald, who, in the course of
a pompous challenge, announced his King prepared
“to uphold the matchless loveliness and peerless
fame of that star of chivalry and loadstone of
knighthood, her most puissant and gracious
Majesty, the White Queen, and the beauty and
honour of her Court and subjects, claiming only to
be allowed a fair board, no favour, equal parti-
tions of white and rod, and all that portainoth to
the honorable art of chess.” On tho nod King re-
plying that he would “ battle for the supremacy in
beauty of Her Majesty the Red Queen, the em-
press of all hearts, tho cynosure of all eyes, and
the many charms of the fair maidens of her
Court,” tho game commenced. The bishops and
knights wore all gentlemen; the castles and pawns
all young ladies, and very bewitching—the castles
in dresses turreted all over, and the pawns in short
skirts oarrying shields and spears. Both the
queens had been “mated” before they appeared
on the chessboard. The Red Queen was “taken,”
upon which all her pawns lowered their lances and
bowed their heads, as she walkod majestioally off
the board to the air “Auld Lang Syne,” by tho band.
Subsequently one of the pawns achieved the dis-
tinction of being “queened.” She was a very
proud pawn for the rest of the game.
• • •
To-night, the favourite Mercantile Rowing
Club Ball will be held in the Exhibition. The de-
mand for tickets has been fully up to expectation,
and all the arrangements are completed.
* * *
Fourth of July will be again celebrated on
on Wednesday week by an American ball at Niths-
dale, and everything will be done to render it
worthy of the occasion. Tickets issued only at
the American Consulate; so “doubtfuls” will have
—like the Peri at the gate—to stay outside. The
last Independence ball was very good, and Mr.
Fleming, the secretary, says he intends this one
also to be “away up.”
• • •
A gathering of fashionables filled the Pro-
testant Hall, at Mme. Charbonnet-Kellermann’s
Matinee Musicale, on Saturday afternoon. Invita-
tions were complimentary, and the matinee, quite
of a drawing-room character, was given to accus-
tom pupils to play without nervousness in Society,
as well as to allow of their relatives and friends
judging their profleienoy. This last was satisfac-
tory. for, though a variety of musio was included
in the list of twenty-four numbers, from the
splendid Schuloff Waltz to simple Kelvin Grove,
every piece in its turn evidenced careful training.
A duet from “ Sappho ” was given by Mrs. Spencer
and Signora Fabris, and Cherubino's Song, of
Mozart, was beautifully sung by Mine. Rozalie
Merz. Mme. Kellermann’s own transcription of
Braga’s Serenata, and her last pretty publication,
the Brise-de-mer Waltz, brought on the bright
little pianiste a shower of bouquets from all parts
of the hall. At half-past 2, some thirty pupils filed
in to their seats in the front body of the hall,
where a square space had been reserved, and
the phanlanx of fair demoiselles, all in white
or light dresses, made a charming break in
the dark mass of the general audience, like
a jewel in a sombre setting. The concert
opened with Lachner’s March Olebre, by
Madame and three pupils—a martial piece, exe-
cuted with spirit and precision. Master E. K.
Cox, the only thorn among the roses, made three
successful appearances, notably in a pretty duet,
Le Trille, when he shared with a young lady well-
deserved applause. An octette on two instruments
was somewhat of a musical curiosity, but it is
questionable whether the art of music gains any-
thing by packing four young ladies to one piano.
A trifle of Le Couppey’s was beautifully played by
one of the youngest girls; but it was only a flash
of pretty melody, that seemed over ere it was
scarce begun, and left one hungering for more.
Quite different, and perhaps the most brilliant per-
formance of any pupil at the matinee, was Saint
Saens’s Danse Macabre, by the daughter of an
M.P. In power and firmness of touch, the execu-
tion was splendid, while, at the same time, not a
shade of excellence was sacrificed in the delicate
Angering of the lighter passages. Bouquets testi-
fied to the appreciation of listeners; a similar com-
pliment being subsequently paid to the young
lady from Paddington who nicely played, from
memory, the old and ever favourite Weber’s Last
Waltz. Weber’s duet, Euryante, was noticeable;
and Miss E. 8. James, assistant teacher, showed
skill. A grand finale for twenty-four hands, in-
cluding March from “ Ruins of Athens,” and
Mozart’s “Gloria,” was a spirited finish to the long
programme, which lasted over three hours.
♦ •
The first of a series of Winter parties to be
held in Orange, took place on the 14th instant, the
attendance numbering about sixty. Blue and
cardinal were the prevailing colours. A petite lady
in cream and cardinal, and a tall cornstalk in blue
and cardinal, vied with each other for the envied
position of belle. A stately brunette from Sale-
street looked most commanding in black satin,
with a coronet of pearls, and was voted the best
dancer. Two daughters of an aspirant for legisla-
tive honours looked heavenly in sky-blue. Of the
married ladies, the wife of the local brewer, in
something white and shiny, heavily beaded, cut
low in the neck, and the wire of the Junior Justice
of the Peace, in cardinal and whito, carried off the
palm.
• • •
At the conoert in the Masonic Hall, last
Thursday night, a few nice dresses were worn.
Miss Pedley looked charming in a light-coloured
flowered silk over a rich old gold satin skirt, with
sleevoe of same material. A young lady from
Stanmoro wore white satin dress unrelieved save
by very long pink kid gloves, which gave her arms
a very rosy appearance. A prune brochrf satin,
with old gold silk lace trimmings, was worn by a
stylish lady with rippling hair. A dress composed
of garnet velvet, and same coloured watered silk,
admirably became a fair Burwood pianist. A few
ladies were gloveless: but until the eye becomes
accustomed to this freak of fashion, and until
ladies woar prettier hands, we shall be compelled
to say we don’t like it. Caps are fast coming into
favour again; but dainty little caps—not those that
entirely cover the head, whioh were worn two
years back, and whioh made the most youthful
face look like its grandmother. Undoubtedly the
prettiest and most becoming head ornaments are
flowers, or strings of small pearls, twisted grace-
fully in the hair.
* * *
The Britannia C.C. of Parramatta had
their second annual ball on the Bth Juno. The
Masons’ decorations came in conveniently, and a
trio of musicians lust suited the dancers, and the
size of the Masonic Hall. Spectators were pro-
vided for. They always come and peep in at what’s
going on at Parramatta, whether they are pro-
vided for or not; for even if she can’t participate
in the fun, it’s great gratification to a Parramatta
girl to gaze on the local “ Johnnies ” when they’re
in “ full flg.” Forty pairs executed thirty dances,
finishing at nearly five o’clock. Most of the guests
wore fancy dresses, in great variety, and came not
only from the locality, but from every suburb and
settlement between Toongabbie and North Head.
And we’re suffused with joy as we announce that
several gentlemen “looked well as cricketers."
! Question of belle undecided, but many considered
a Sydney blue took the title.
* * *
A birthday party way given at Bernioe,
Lavender Bay, on Friday, 15th inst.. by Mrs. S. B.
Bailey, in honour of her eldest daughter, Miss
Eva. A jolly evening was spent; dancing, music,
and singing, being the items. Hostess very agree-
able, in pearl silk brochs. Belleship was divided be-
tween a young lady in black and tartan trimmings,
and a Stoneleigh lady in cream and pink. Also
very charming looked a lady from College-street,
and hailing from St. Leonard’s came a fair orea-
ture in black and pink. The host was energetic,
and the guests separated at 5 a.m.
• • •
The fourth meeting of the Randwick Social
Assembly took place last Thursday, when a fair
number spun on the spacious floor of the pretty
Town Hall. Twelve dances were on the pro-
gramme, which ended very early. To an ordinary
individual, it would really seem almoßt like love 8
labour lost to don a dress coat at eight to doff it
again at ten o’clock; but it’s one of the pleasing
penalties, you know, of belonging to the haut-ton .
The ladies, as usual, wore delightful, especially the
fair. visitors from Blenheim, The Willows, and
Llanfoyst. No less than five extras were added to
the list of dances, and it was after eleven when the
last of the pleasant party hied to their homes.
** * *
J. Meagher and Co., on the last of May,
gave one of the largest banquets ever known in
the Western district, on completion of their pre-
mises at Bathurst, and (this is what we like to
hear) the surplus from the tables was made a hand-
some donation to the Orphanage and Relief
Society. Mr. Meagher has made a; big fortune in
fifteen years, and never drank a glass of grog in
his life—Mrs. J. Tvgoe, who has just died at
Armidale, celebrated her golden wedding some
fifteen months ag0....A curious thing happened
at Queanbeyan. The Marriage Act provides that
oertain magistrates in each district shall be autho-
rised to give consent to the marriage of minors
who have no legal guardians. A few days since, a
young couple who had arranged to consummate
the “kittle’’ deed found no one who could so act,
the magistrates who had been appointed having
both died. Magistrates at a distance can’t act out
of their own district. As the young lady is only a
minor, the fond youth has no alternative but to
be patient till a magistrate is appointed, or else
wait till his bride grows. But it’s most annoying
to a youth of ardent temperament.... The New-
town Rink still continues its pleasant Monday
evenings. Pyrmont has formed a Rink. And the
Wagga Rink opened last week, with a good
deal of iclat. That’s French for uncertainty of
equipoise.... A Bohemian band of musicians, oon-
sisting of seven ladies and seven gentlemen, Is ex- ,
pected here shortly, from “ India’s choral strand.”,, *
Wentworth indulged in the novelty of a masquer-
ade ball last Thursday ... Preparations are being
perfected for the ft rand Conversazione in the
(For continuation of Social, see next page.)
LOVE-LYRIC.
(Now Stylo.)
“ Lovest thou me ?” said she,
On a day in the long- ago ;
We wept that it ooula not be,
Answering “No.”
Then wo wore wed, and though
We had loved her verily, wo
Might not to her white arms go,
As yon can see.
Would that she now said so,
Wo would answer, “Lo, wo aro free.
Wo have killed our wife, and would know
Lovest thou me?”
F
URNITURE SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMP,
O’Connell and Spring street*, Sydney.
II
New!
ALL FURNITURE. HATSTANDS, and
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT. Bradley*
ewton, and Lamb.
T IBRARf FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDB
I J TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES*
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS. Bradlev, New-,
ton, and Lamb, Furniture Importers, Spring and
O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, fcc.*
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley*
Newton, and Lamb.
-JVrOVELTIES In Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
ill SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb*
O’ConnellHStreet.
A FTERNOON TEA TABLES, elegant and in ex
A pensive. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB*
O’Connell-street.
MARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for ciubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &o.
BILLIARD TABLES, full size, with appurten-
ances : also smaller Convertible Tables, 7 and
8 feet—may be used as dining tables. Now on view.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, Importers, Spring
and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Ji EDSTEADS, ail sizes, at lowest prioes. BRAD-
-3 LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Importers,
Connell-streot.
BEDROOM SUITEfe complete in various woodsu
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
Eoonomic Bedroom Suite, eomprising ward-
robe, ohest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY,
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
HEAP FURNITURE. —Whatnots, frem Soe;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 00s; epea Book-
eases, fram 355; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from lOsOd; Tables, from 7s 6d; Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 255; Cedar Sideboards, frem 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables front
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s Bd. BRAE-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Sprinor
streets, Sydney.
85s.
BRADLEY,
NEWTON,
and LAMB,
SYDNEY.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs In Blaek and Gold, with SldO
Shelves, 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
ITWRNITURE— The Largest Btoek In the
' Colony. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O ’ Connell-street.
RA WING-ROOM CABINETS—EarIy English,
Anglo-Japanese, and Chippendale designs,
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Just op „ ,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O'ConneU
streets.
Dining-room furniture.—Magnificent
Suites in Walnut, Oak, and Mahogany. Side*
boards, Dinner Waggons, <&e., to match. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O’Connell streets.
Framework for drawing and DiNiSffii
ROOM FURNITURE, Handsome and Massive,
in Oak, Walnut and Mahogany. The VERY BEST
REAL MOROCCO SKINS, and Materials fer up-
holstery. Open to inspection. BRADLEY, NBW-
TON, and LAMB.
B
EDSTE ADS, niekel-plated and blaek and brass*;
1 new shipments. Bradley, NewtCP, and Lamb.
BEDDING. —All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Coa-
nell-street.
ABHSTANDS, with marble. 234 eaoh.~BRA&-
. LEY, NEWTON, and LAidß.'
ARDEN SEATS and Verandah Chairs.—Brad-
ley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment just opened; many quite new,
designs.
.COASIONAL CHAIRS in VERY GREAT
w
Gr
O
Variety, Chairs, Stools, Desks, Are/, Bradley,
Newton, ana Lamb, O* Connell-street*
FFIOE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,!
Chairs, Stools, Desks, Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb, 0 Connell-street.
TCB CHESTS, all sizes, very superior make,
JL amine before purchasing. BRADLEY, Njq
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
IRON SAFES, various sizes. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
S~~ TEINWAYNE WTORKPIANOS;WeMNKST
in the world. A SHIPMENT just landed.
OQ GUINEA PIANO, WARRANTED sound
and durable, In solid wslnut onao; specially
adapted for beginners or schools.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
O/'hGHUNEA PIANO, brilliant toned, full com-
vP pass, all the latest improvements, in hand-
some walnut case ; WARRANTED SOUND
DURABLE ; BEST VALUE in the trade.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CELEBRATED PIANOS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB
have received
another LARGE SHIPMENT
of
R. LIPP and SONS’ celebrated PIANOFORTES
ifig5 E G^ D AV?iSIJ ANMOMI! “ d «*
in
WALNUT and BLACK GOLD.
WE HAVE NOW THE LARGEST STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA OF
LIPP’B PIANOS
TO SELECT FROM.
WE INVITE INSPECTION.
FOR PRIVATE SALE AT EXTREMELY LOW
PRICES.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Pianoforte Importers,
O’Connell and Spring streets.


Rxhlbltlen, W Open on the 28th June. Decorations
will be Very lavish, and the exhibits most interest-
ing It will be a big affair.... The Hon. J. G. Duffy
rave a dinner to Mr. Redmond at his St. Kilda
residence... Mr. W. Wolf, who is secretary to the
Melbourne Turn-Vermin, was married last week
to Miss Jordan. J ordan was a great obstacle to the
jews of old; not so last week, though Seven
marriages took place in one day, recentlv, at
Richmond (Vic.) Oh, heaven!—for the girls....
A good Masons’ ball was held at Parramatta on
the 6th of June, when many visitors went down
from Sydney and in from the environs. Ingham’s
musio. Cripps’ catering, and plenty of gay dresses
tended towards a nice night. As a very late start
was effected, the ball Was protracted till far into the
morning There was a Mechanics’ ball at
Inverell, too, when dancing was most emphatically
Berformed throughout the watches of the night.
hinese lanterns, a “ band” of two, and supper
constructed on a teetotal basis, helped the
sons of toil in their conscientious exertions....
A plain and fancy dress ball takes place at Orange
on the sth July. Strange to say, ladies are in a
minority at Orange—that is, single ones. This in-
dicates that the young men are the right sort....
Independence Day will be marked by a picnic to
Botany on the 4th July, carriages starting from
the American Studio, 310 George-street, at 10 a.m.
. . .Love rules the court, the camp, and the orange
grove all alike. It was down near Gerringon g that
a Sydney swain told his love in an orchard, to a
local gentle Annie, and yet but a few short weeks
went by when he inserted in the paper these words;
“ Some time ago I was engaged to a young lady,
and was promised by her father that I should re-
ceive a certain sum of money on the wedding
morning. But the father, after ‘ mature delibera-
tion,’ arrived at the conclusion that we had better
wait until his death. After his giving me his
promise, I naturally concluded that he would
maintain it. But I consider that when a man has
made a promise, especially in a case like the one
referred to, and breaks it, he would probably
break it on other occasions, and is therefore not to
be trusted. In consequence, I felt it my duty to
break the engagement.” This is about the most
naive young man on record. Spell “naive ” care-
fully, now Cootamundra Athletic Club held a
pleasant evening s dance a few nights ago. The
young men are getting to dance pretty well, now.
When they first started dancing of a night, people
used always to look in the paper next morn-
ing, to see if the earthquake had been felt
anywhere else besides Cootamundra On one
recent day, no less than fourteen weddings
were celebrated at Geelong, Vic It is by no
means necessary, in parts of America, for a young
lady to have a chaperone at a ball. A gentleman
can take her alone with propriety. At Washington
this is done in the best oircles. And If any one
hinted at the iimiroprioty of a gentleman having
entire charge of a lady for the evening, and fetch-
ing her home in the small hours of the morning,
the mother would probably reply: “As I know
him to be a gentleman, I may trust him as such;
and I am sure my daughter is capable of taking
care of herself. But the same rule does not apply
in New York.., About 358 guests were present at
the ball given by the Welfington (N.Z.) Club to
Sir wm. Jervois; Lady Jervois was too unwell to
attend.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Mercantile Rowing Club Ball (Exhibition). June 21
Woollahra Private Assembly (Nithsdale).. June 22
Engineering Association Conversazione. .June 28
Ashfleld Assembly June 29
American Picnic (Botany) July 4
American Independence Ball (Nithsdale).. Julv 4
Masonic Ball, I.C. (Town Hall) July 5
Newcastle R.C. Ball July k
Balmain R.C. Ball (Town Hall) July 13
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“Ambitious Australian”: We like you
ambition better than your verses, and your Aus
tralian better than your English. But you hav
some grit; and you will have to work hard t
quarry it out..“C.W.J.”: You mistake the terms
Why, even on the Hodgkinson goldfield, there ar
over 850 distinct lines of reef....“ Critic”: Yo
couldn’t have come nearer the truth if you hac
tried. The politician you speak of is a type of
class of orators who have made Parliament, whic]
should be the concrete expression of the intellec
and dignity of the country, nothing better than a
Indian waw-waw meeting, where every anvi
faced savage brags about himself. The ambitio
of these men is simply to be talked of, written oi
read of. They are crazy for fame, and don’t d
anything to deserve it. And never will. The fam
they obtain is much of the kind that the potato
bug had some time ago. Schiller had some sue!
men in his eye when he wrote—
“ Remember aye the ocean deeps are mu te,
The shallows roar;
Worth is the ocean—Fame the bruit
Along the shore.”
“Vigilans”: In our last issue you will see a par
about the matter. When the young man comes
out of gaol, and sees the advertisement, he wil
probably make and publish a declaration that he
isn t related to the other fellow“ Amateur ”
No, dear boy, we haven’t printed your “ poem ’
yet. Homer, remember, had to wait 3000 years
before he got his poems into print....” Wybert”
No. Nothing will get over wrinkles except a tar-
brush—and that wouldn’t improve matters.
S.X.’: Late. Next week...” Be Delahunt”:
Next week ...” N.J.P.” (Tibooburra): Will duly
Wpsjw- •• A.A.W.”: Will read and consider
b.G.G ; Good matter “Semper Paratus”:
Much obiiged.... ll Cannibal Creek”: Held over. ..
C-M. = Khfbt y° u are—“ J.W.” (Canterbury
Road): Thanks....“Tasmanite”: One of the live-
liest and best-turned pieces of verse we’ve
read for a long while. But the subject is
a dangerous one just now. Write something
}. n _ the same style about another theme
J.W.S.”: Write to Mr. W. Macleod, the artist, of
Wentworth-court “J.8.M.”: Always glad to
hear Irom you “T.S.R.”: Very welcome
James Reid.”: Scarcely our style; more suitable
to a hymn-book. The Bulletin isn’t a hymn-
book—no, not “by a whole team and a big dog
under the waggon.” “C. E. Shaw”: Franken-
stein was not the creature, and consequently could
not have made such a remark “A Balmaniac”
submits to us the following absurd case:—“A bets
B that he cannot multiply 19s. tid. by 19s. (id.
because it is multiplying money by money. Now
which of the two are right?” Of course B is
right. By money alone can a man multiply
“Obey- It’s the only means out, and though
called ‘ square measure” is sometimes worked “on
the cross.”—“lnfidel”: Good yarns acceptable.
.... Bushman”: Verses wishy-washy “Sub-
scriber” (Albury): Very small matter. Send us
something more important.... “X.Y.Z.” (Coota-
mundra): Send anything good “J.L.D.”:Not
publicly interesting....” R.G.P.”: Verse more
suitable for a religious magazine....“Ofellus":
J;®t very funny—“ Dan O’D.”: Nonsense
II.A G. : If you want our candid opinion we
never read greater rubbish....“ F.W.”: Will read.
'' A •*!., of W. and H.”: Too late to be dealt
with this week. Will look into it....“XXX”:
very good. [Many other communications must
stand over.]
We are desirous of procuring short stories
ot colonial interest, not exceeding one Bulletin
page. We are also desirous of receiving communi-
cations from ladies on subjects of social interest,
ror such matters we are prepared to pay liberally.
Suggestions for sketches are always welcome.
On the line. Guard: “Summerill! Sum-
merill! Passenger; “Hallo there, guard; you’re
dropping your H’s.” Guard: “All right, sir, I’ll
Piok Them up at next station.” Next station—
"Hashfleld, Hashfleld, Hashfleld!”
_ Forbes has been lecturing at
Bathurst and Orange, and is now in Dubbo. Next
week he will go South, taking Goulburn on his
return; and then to Grafton.
The Melbourne Exhibition Building
trustees, with L. L. Smith at their head, waited
upon the Victorian Premier with reference to the
future utilisation of the building. They waited on
the wrong man. They should have consulted R.
b. bmythe, L.L. ’ should have known that—
Consultation fee by letter, £l. Strictest secrecy.”
Hon. J. Watson, late Colonial Treasurer,
defendant in the ease Elkington v. Watson, is
a shining light of the Young Men’s Christian Asso-
ciation.."A correspondent says that in our issue
of 2rd June, we did injustice to the Rev. J. H.
Price, in suggesting that he inculcated brotherly
hate, as he is a good fellow and wouldn’t do suen
?uL n ?- J® . a F e finite glad of it.... Major Barker,
the Salvationist, knows how to tickle Melbourne
oars. The movement, says he, is a money-making
concern. Colonels’ commissions should be at once
made out for Hermann and Waxman
Though Holy Russia pretends that within
her borders all nations may glorify Almighty God
according to the creed of their fathers, she punishes
from her conception of orthodoxy
with the utmost rigour. In olden times the priests
used to chain the apostates in the church cells;
nowadays they send them to some convent, where
they are kept on bread and water and in solitary
confinement till they repent or die. There are now
in Russian convents apostates who have been held
for over a score of years. For instance, Andrew
Pushkin has been kept in the Solovetsky Convent,
near Archangelsk, since 1853!.... The Bishop of
Uilombo, Ceylon, has dismissed one of the Church
teachers for marrying a Wesleyan! Nice Christian
young man the Bishop must be Thus the
Westminster Review “Dr Benson is the highest
churchman that has been sent to Canterbury since
Laud and Bancroft, and the times are little propi-
tious for anv institution presided over by a man of
kindred spirit to either of those prelates.”.
Salvation Army Booth says his hair is growing
grey because of the wickedness of other people.
The orthodox preacher gets fat for the same reason.
Mrs. Langtry takes about £20,000 with her
from America, to which she intends returning:
“At what age were you married ?” asked she, in-
quisitively. But the other woman quietly re-
sponded, “At the parsonage.” Mrs. Dr. Anna
Potts, an American lady, gave a series of lectures
in the Opera House at Auckland lately, on various
subjects, to large audiences. She has a diploma,
and with her is an associate, Dr. Harrison. After
mak ng a tour of several New Zealand towns, Mrs.
Potts re-visits Auckland, leaving there about the
end of September for Sydney.
The Mayor of a large town in— er, Victoria,
received £4OO from a widow—the whole of her
little fortune—for the purpose of investing it in
shares for her in a flourishing concern, of which
he was a director. Instead of investing the money,
the Mayor paid it to his own credit at the bank,
and soon afterwards filed in bankruptcy, and the
widow got a dividend, along with the other credi-
tors, of 3 : Md. in the pound. The Mayor had to
resign his Mayoralty—temporarily, of course. But
sucii was the admiration excited in the breasts of
his l'ellow-citizens by this proof of his business
qualifications that, in receiving his discharge and
resuming his former business on a larger scale, he
was once more triumphantly returned at the top
of the poll as Mayor or the borough—a position he
has now occupied for several years. But he did
not forget the poor widow; he paid her back her
£4OO, of course ? Well, no, he didn’t do that; but
he gave her some shirts to make for himself, and
silk dresses for his wife and daughters 1
“ THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession .]
Light employment for a gentleman—marry
hard-working actress—While we think of it. Mr.
Sheridan is now playing at Grafton to good houses.
His tour in the country has been a first-class suc-
cess. And Louiso is lovelier than ever. And they
are going back to America next month. And we
are accordingly crushed Mr. Allison has, we
hear, secured a five-years’ renewal of the lease of
Adelaide Theatre Royal. We are also told that
steps are being taken with a view to the erection
of another theatre— Miss Amy Sherwin made her
debut at Drury Lane 7th April, and was very kindly
received. The opera was “ Maritana.” Miss Sher-
win was painfully nervous to begin with, but
gained confidence as the opera progressed, and re-
ceived a cordial encore for “ Scenes that are
brightest.” Her acting, most of the critics said,
was of a very rudimentary character. One of the
most competent musical scribes says, “ The young
lady’s voice, though light, is agreeable, andsneean
boast of considerable compass and some rare upper
notes.” The Montague-Turner people are in
Queensland, and are said to be doing good business
.... Thus Fred Maccabe, of N.Z.: “My impression
is, that it is a very splendid country, possessing
many disadvantages, and that for delicate people
it is especially calculated to end their troubles, but
it is a very fine country for the survivors”. .Charles
Turner lost two of nis Company—a lady and a
gentleman—at the mouth of the Grafton river,
while detained by the tide. They walked ashore
to look for shells, and the steamer sailed to Sydney
without them. We wonder whether they found
any shells after all. There is a little moral involved
in this trifling incident. A moral that’s concho-
logieally comic. A lot of people could point it
without a pen-knife. But we can’t. We are not
great on shells unless there happens to be an oyster
inside... Melbourne is still rejoicing in the bland-
ishments of luscious Louise—the Pomeroy, wo
refer to. She will soon be in Sydney. George the
Huge is Itomanyrying to his own entire satisfac-
tion; but as he leaves soon, too, Melbourne will
indeed be gloom-enshrouded Wybert Reeve’s
high comedy season at the Bijou has hardly been
the success anticipated by the aesthetes. Wybert
will pose as a captivating young man... Fred His-
cocks’ niggers a Dig success. They are funny and
natural. Phoenix Park panorama a hoar-frost, as
it deserved to be.
Nearly every one of the items in “Stella’s’
attest Continental Gossip letter to the Herald it
gonthspia. Her screed should be headed “Staler
Balls, Banquets, Public or Private Parties,
nailrooms tastefully decorated with Flag: or Floral
u atl ? ns on reasonable temre—Sale and Dare,
wii Hunter-street.*
HORDERN’S
ON THE
33ric3s:±ield. Hill.
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS in LACE CURTAINS.
Those Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers
Ladies residing
Curtains. If
lace curtains, ioo prices.
iv, ssksms °u™
the same pattern. See future f ° rWard oxactly
Tiyjy.
m
M
AS
t .. _• _ LACE CURTAINS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Mosquito Nets m strfped° Table-Cover,
ONE ONLY ADDRESS
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS,
1 LACE curtains] 668 BRICKFIELD HILL. j lace CURTAINS)
Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
315 George Street,
■
A few of our undertakings MOST SUCCESS
FULLY carried out, among which will bo found
MOST DIFFICULT, and MOST
RESPONSIBLE events that have taken place since
the opening’ of this establishment.
CiHisWorship the MAYOR’S PICNIC, for 460, at
His Worship the MAYOR’S BALL, for 1600, Exhi-
bition Building, at which his Worship! John
Harris, entertained their R.H.’s PRINCES AL-
BEt II GEORGE, EARL CLAN
and the Officers of the Detachod Squadron.
M ExMb it io Bubdings ll CoilBtltution - *>r 1262,
LL ’ N,S ’ W ’ Constitution, at Town
V r^nim t S e f lr P FF CES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Lithgow Valley J/Hnes and Zigzag
Dinim? Car whife travelling. Govornment Palace
G ™™ nent ,? efroBh ? lent t° 15 -°OO SCHOOL CHIL-
VFHV^H?iHT n^t^ Demr , )llBtJation -' J nder
Viixtx bHOKT NOT. ICE, only rocoivinc thn
order at 2.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot of 12JO
p.m. the following day.
Visit of THEIR R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
Captahn Cook’s landing, south side
of Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon and refresh-
ment, for 100, under VERY SHORT NOTICE re-
ceiving order at 9.30 p.m., to bo ready on the spot
at 1 p.m. following day.
The LADY MAYORESS’ RECEPTIONS, Town
Hall.
The UNION CLUB BACHELOR’S BALL, at Exhi-
bition Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE WINDEYER.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE INNEB.
Dinner d la Basse at St. Paul’s College, for ISO Mem.
bers of the CBURCH OF ENGLAffb SYNOD
“teamsTt”™ istercolonialmfi k
T Bo L .?src n EW^
T wi&"fefen„ d aS,TsS‘ B “’ “ nANU -
T Itoom NSULAR DINNER, in our new Banquet
Banquet at CAMDEN, Tramway Opening.
ARMIDALE RAILWAY Demonstrations. Ban-
«£ «»,% L heToU^fn 0 g V ev^l-
Dinner to the PRESBYTERIAN SYNOD.
Breakfast to the CONGREGATIONAL SYNOD
ST. VINCENT’S Hospital Ball.
THE MERCANTILE Rowing Club Ball.
N r o , siffi^T r astA o^R%, ssHS“i [ 7 Hia
MENT IDg nUl ’ ° n acoount of tho GOVERN
Together with a numerous lot of Private Dinnern
Feasts, Weddings, Garden Parties, BaJls T^
al6S ’ Supper8 ’ Picnlc8 > Fishl »«
/HALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTTOK
BILIOUSNESS, COMPLAINT, WEAKNESS?’ &<.
PRICE..
2s. 6d.
L. G. KEBBLEWHITE, Chemist, &c
43 ERSKINE STREET ; and ’ ’
W. H. SOUL, Pitt Street.
KOUMISS! KOUMISS!
VST THE GREAT MILK DIET.
CURBS
Indigestion
Heartburn
Debility
&c. &c.
to
IM ni ,r:
CURES
Diabetes
Bright's
Disease
Consumption
&c. &o.
registered trade mark.
KOUMISS is not a quack remedy, but is
prescribed and used by all the leading Physicians,
and will POSITIVELY CURE the above complaints
We cordially invite the public to call at our office.
BOND STREET, and judge for themselves
of the EXTRAORDINARY TESTIMONIALS al-
ready to hand from well-known citizens. Reference
is permitted to all the leading Physicians, also to
the following: The Lady Superintendent Child Jen’s
Hospital; Rev. G. Macarthur, King’s School, Para-
matta; Alderman R. Butcher, Mayor.of Woollahra-
Duncan M’Kay, Esq., Whittingham; Augustus
Morris, Esq.; Rev. J. J. Carroll, St. Augustine’s,
Balmain ; Rev. Z. Barry, St. Matthias’, Woollahra;
Capt. Rountree, Balmain, and many others.
T HE MUTUAL INVESTMENT
AND BUILDING COMPANY (Limited).
HEAD OFFICE : 800 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Office: Montague-street, Goulburn.
BANKo
DIRECTORS;
W. W. J. O’Reilly M.D., Chairman; E. Hogben,
Esq. ; John Nobbs, Esq. ; G. J. Wells, Esq. ;
Wm. Davies, Esq,; W. s. Foxall, Esq.:
H. G. Swyny, Esq.
; DEPOSITS RECEIVED TO ANT EXTENT.
6 per cent, per annum allowed on deposits for fi
months.
7 per cent, per annum allowed on deposits for ]2
months.
£5 per cent, per annum is allowed by this Com-
pany on current accounts.
In addition to the interest allowed, depositors
participate in the profits.
H. G. SWYNT,
Managing Director.


THE NEWSLETTER.
I IViotona has 6922 miles of telegraph wire,
and 381 stations ; N.8.W., 16,000 miles and 345
stations. Last year, in Victoria, 1,500,000 messages,
yielding £170,000, woro transmitted; in N.S.VV.,
during the same period, the transmission of 1,965,931
messages yielded £130,2f15135. 4d.
Conjuring entertainment, Victoria Hall,
Sunderland, England, last week, attended by some
3000 children, 1000 of whom were in'gallery, access
to which was by a winding staircase. Alarm of
of fire; doorway jammed; 200 persons, chiefly
chlldron, crushed to death. As Ruskln says, there
are no architects, now-a-days.
Captain Tucker has planted between 30,000
and 40,000 oocoa-nuts on liis station, Goode Island,
five miles from Thursday Island. Most of them
are growing freely. Jn a few years the island will
afford one of the prettiest sights in Queensland.
As soon as the palms are in full bearing, the net
income from this plantation should be about £6OOO
per annum. Every month 200 to 500 nuts are
planted, and the owner intends to put a nut into
every available spot on the island.
The Annamese, with whom France is at
war, are the woi’St-built and ugliest of all Mon-
golians. They are below middle-height, and dis-
tinctly shorter than their Chinese neighbours.
Their complexion is darkerthan the Chinese; they
have thiok skins, low foreheads, fiat skulls, and
lozenge-shaped faces, and, owing to the formation
of the pelvis, they walk with a curious swagger
which identifies the race. They are an obstinate,
tenacious, and sometimes r cruel foe.
The hon. secretary of the Cowra hospital
winds up an appeal to the inhabitants of that dis-
trict thusly : ‘‘Relying on your valuable assist-
ance, I have to request that you will kindly testify
your acquiescence by informing me as early as
practicable of the number of hands you employ,
and the proportionate amount per month you are
prepared to deduct from their wages.” Now, for
an original proportion of “front” commend us to
the hon. sec. as above. Surely the “ worrukin ”
men referred to as the “number of hands you
employ ” should have a trifle to say in this little
matter.
The treatment of some ’bus horses in Sydney
is brutal in the extreme. The proprietors of ’buses
allow the bones to be beaten out of the hides of
these poor animals in order that yet a little more
work may be got out of them. And we suppose
these men go to church on Sunday, fat with the
profits of the blood and sweat of dumb animals
and listen complacently to sermons about charity
and Christian kindness. We can’t say that we have
a particular liking for physical pain, or an over-
Sowering ambition to be a ’bus horse; but, if we
ad only the two alternatives, we would rather be
a 'bus horse than a ’bus proprietor.
There’s roguery
in every game except
horse-dealing, and the
style in which one
section of the com-
munity cozens an un-
suspecting Govern-
ment is this. A
School of Arts is
erected, say in Bul-
locktown, and for
every 40s. worth of
actual subscriptions
received, 20s. has to
be handed over from
the Dublin coffers.
That's all right. But,
as time rolls on, this
School of Arts is let to
what Sir ’Enry once
called “niggir koom-
gahys,” amateur
hakes pearian-mur-
dorers, armless Albi-
nos, and calves with
four heads and six
tails; waste paper is
sold to the local
sausage emporiums;
the hall is rented by
a clergyman to - day,
and a freethinker to-
morrow ; all the
moneys received are
returned as members’
subscriptions, and a
proportionate amount
is theh taken from the
public funds. It is also
stated that in some
oases architects and
others, who gave their
sorvices free, have
been asked to send in
fat bills, so that half
the amount might be
wheedled from
the Govern-
ment. Something
similar goes on in
some of the country hospitals. Persons are
made life-members, and a bogus subscription
of £lO recorded. For each of these the State
hap to disburse a “Aver.” Patients’ fees are
also entered as subscriptions, and the whole busi-
ness betrays an amount of careful savee on the
part of those concerned that must ultimately lead
them into Parliament—or into gaol.
The Licensed Victuallers’ Trade Defence
Association of N.S.W. hold a meeting on Friday,
(1) to consider whether the members of the Asso-
ciation should notact in concert with the police in
dealing with those publicans who, to the injury of
the interests Of those who keep the law, sell liquor
on Sundays ; (21 to consider thi advisability of
forming a Club within a reasonable distance of the
metropolis, for the use of hotelkeepers and their
families; (3) to adopt measures to prevent grocers
selling less than two gallons of any one kind of
liquor at one time; (3) to consider what steps shall
be taken to prevent liquor being sold in private
boarding-houses.
An operation for the cure of hare lip is
often performed, but quite a new idea is one for
the insertion of a rabbit’s cornea into the human
eye. Yet we learn Dr. Wilkins, formerly of Mel-
bourne, but now of Christchurch (N.Z.), in May
last, grafted the cornea of a rabbit’s eye on to the
uninjured portion of the eye of a hospital patient.
Should the operation prove successful, and it is
expected that it will prove so, what a rabbit in-
spector that patient would make with his hunocu-
lar! By the way, a Sydney doctor writes to one of
the dailies to sa v that this operation is by no means
original- and that he (the medico aforesaid) per-
formed it here months ago, with the assistance of
his brother.
William Nicholson, mining “hatter,” of
Amherst Flat (Vic.), died last week of starvation,
the result of his extreme penuriousness; leaving
by will, his property, some few hundreds, to a
friend in Canada and a nephew. Half-a-crown,
however, he bequeathed as under:—“To S
M and M B , one shilling to pay for a
treatise on truth, honesty, and morality; to M
N the sum of sixpence, to keep for ever, to re-
mind her of her untruthfulness, dishonesty, and
depravity. I give to W N sixpence to buy
a tin whistle to blow on—as the lying fool is fit for
nothing else. I give to It M the sum of six-
pence, the father of lying rogues, to buy a rope.
He knows the use I want him to make of it.”
The Chinese are still laggards, and slow to
adopt Christian practices. A Chinese merchant
went bankrupt in Shanghai. His creditors caught
him in the street, lugged him off to a house, and
hung him up by the pigtail. They threaten, if they
catch him again, they will eat him. How different
it is with us! Here, if a merchant goes crooked, he
has the respect of all. People point him out in the
streot, and say they are astonished at what a clever
fellow he must be to be able to owe so much
money, go. insolvent, and still manage to keep up
a magnificent private house. As to hanging him
up by the pigtail, he just waits for one of his
creditors to say anything nasty of that sort, and
then have him up for defamation of character.
Herberton, N.Q., must be a happy place to
live in. Judging by the items in the local paper,
the staple amusements up there are drinking and
fighting. A man who hasn’t at least one black eye,
or a broken nose, or an ear missing, is considered a
poor-spirited creature, whose words are not worth
listening to. When two people have a misunder-
standing, they are expected to fight, And the
town turns out to see fair play. The parties are at
liberty to go to law afterwards, but they must fight
first, or they are men of no account. These charm-
ing little characteristics make us take quite a
liking to Herberton. We like it just where it is.
Advt. from the S.M. Heraed “To Press-
men.—Notice.—A first-class opening now exists in
the township of Gundagai for another newspaper;
the district is wealthy, and the railway from Coota-
mundra will be commenced almost immediately.
Universal support would be given to a journal of
even average ability.” Advt. from the Evening
News:—“ To Pressmen.—A good opening exists in
Gundagai for another newspaper or two. A good
drinking Orangeman will be welcomed and locally
supported. So long as he is not over scrupulous
about libels, will be assisted in the literary depart-
ment by experienced local talent. Must be pre-
pared to advocate any cause, and especially to ex-
tinguish the police officials and Commissioner for
Railways. If sufficiently subservient may be nomi-
nated for Parliament.”
We have been dwelling in the shadow of a
delusion for a long time. We thought that Parlia-
ment—a body of presumably able men chosen by
the people as their representatives—made the laws.
But, bless you, we discover that there are laws in
force in tne bush that nobody in the city ever
heard of. We have a strong suspicion that these
laws are made by the police themselves. They
are, anyhow, grotesque enough to do credit to the
intelligence of the “roorce.” The other day, near
Gundagai, for instance, a man was summoned and
fined for travelling his stock on a Sunday, after
being warned that if he didn’t “ move on ” before
Monday he would hear of it. According to this
charming logic, the law gets the best of it every
time. And the police feel proportionately proud;
as, of course, they have a right to, being as fine a
body of men as ever evaded the natural call to
carry hods.
It is always the way. When a man has dis-
tinguished himself in his native town, he never
likes to leave it; and if he should be testimonialised,
and depart from it, he is pretty sure to come back
again. We have hundreds of instances of this here
every day. And it is the same with Mr. Town
Councillor James Carey. This gentleman, con-
scious of having elevated the fame of the Careys
as high as Haaman dangled, declines to leave
Dublin “ though urged to do so by the authorities.”
Doubtless Mr. Carey has many other reasons, be-
sides the continued enjoyment of the glory he has
shed around himself, for remaining where hois!
He has police protection, property, and domestic
AN EPISODE OF THE NORTH SHORE FERRY.
Here you have a man from Sydney on the
wharf in a great hurry to get to the North
Shore.
And here is a man on the boat
from the North Shore, equally
anxious to get to Sydney.
They jump simultaneously, and
ties. Perhaps he has a girl, too; and we don’t see
why he shouldn’t have one, when Bertrand, if he is
to be believed (as, of course he is!) had so many.
The most popular men with the women, that re-
minds us, are known to be murderers, highwaymen,
and curates. This by-the-way. So far as we are
concerned, we don’t think Mr. James Carey will
ever leave Dublin. Our impression is that he will
be distributed in the form of Christmas cards
amongst his friends.
Benjamin Jones and Edward Downes were
flogged the other afternoon in Darlinghurst Gaol
for having garotted and robbed an elderly man
named Graham, who had, while half-drunk, been
so foolish as to tempt them by displaying some
gold at a coffee-stall. These convicts, whom Judge
Dowling has sent to gaol for seven years, got fifty
lashes apiece. The evening was cold, and the
flogger “laid it on” pretty stiffly; still the men
took their punishment with considerably more
fortitude than might have been expected of fel-
lows convicted of so cowardly a crime. Neither
howled very much, yet both seemed glad when it
was over. Two men were also flogged in Pent-
ridge the other day by the hangman. That func-
tionary, however, does not officiate as flogger in
N.S.w. Why, is not known. “Nosey Bob —for
such is the sobriquet of our Monsieur Sanson—is a
Civil servant, and gets £l5O a year regularly. He
has an assistant, who is paid £l2O a year. These
well-known gentlemen have not had much to
do lately—this year, so far, their only work has
been the execution of Rushbourne, at Armidale.
Monsieur de Sydney told us one day, in confidence,
that he’d rather hang three men than flog one; it
is plain, therefore, that his department wants re-
organisation, and is a little too much addicted to
the “ Government stroke.” By the way, the mem-
bers of the Press are not now admitted to these
little soirees. The Parkes Government declined to
allow the reporters to witness executions; and as
under the Stuart regime the scribe is excluded
from floggings, it is clear that the superior powers
are unwilling to harass anyone’s mind by calling
up recollections of the happy time when a man
sentenced to be flogged got his trouncing in the
George-street market-place at the hands of ex-
perienced practitioners—one right-handed, the
other left-handed—who scattered strips of cuticle
among the spectators long ere “ fifty’’ was called.
The Evening News is the only paper which pub-
lished a detailed account of tne flogging. It is so
fortunate as to have attached to its staff a J.P.—
and justices of the peace can visit any gaol when-
ever they please. We intend requesting Mr. Stuart
to appoint us all J’s.P.
Things seem remarkably lively in Brisbane,
and little Bobby Byrne is in the thick of it. Bobby
has a £2OOO libel writ against him, but that is
nothing. What appears to exercise our little
friend, however, is a statement that appeared in a
paper called the Leader (Queensland), to the effect
that, in lieu of 4000 copies weekly of the Figaro
being printed as advertised, Byrne’s circulation
was the small number of 1500 only. Bobby’s prin-
ters here come to the rescue, and indignantly say
to the editor of the Leader “It is utterly false
that ‘ only 1500 copies ’ of Figaro were ever pub-
> lished, the weekly hand fide edition being more than
double that number. In the week ending May
19th, for reasons best known to Mr. Byrne, and
which don’t interest your readers, we printed a
special edition of 10,000 copios of Figaro.— Tours,
&c., Warwick & Sapsford.” There is a lot of
fun in this. And it reminds us of an incident.
Somebody we know—say our uncle—edited, long
ago, a little paper in a mining township. Well, he
used to put over the leader (when there was one)
the following notice “ The circulation of the
Saleratus Shovel is guaranteed to be four times
larger than that of any other journal in the dis-
trict.” There was no other paper in the district.
One day the Mayor of the township slouched in,
and being a flash kind of a fellow (he was a butcher),
said: “Come, now ; tell us what yer cerkelation is,
printer, and I’ll give yer a standin’ had." “ Sixty,”
was the prompt reply ; “ and if you don’t believe
it, come in to-morrow and you can see me work
’em off myself.” But the Mayor, who was well
posted up in the educational attainments of the
township, whistled incredulously, and walked out.
Quite an eccentric journal was the Saleratus
Shovel, we can tell you. When anything of
moment occurred during the week, such as the
declaration of War between France and Germany,
or a man being drowned in the dam, a little “ extra-
ordinary,” like a blister, used to be circulated with
a jobbing-type border, and the facts all wrong.
All the local news was known, and had been fully
discussed in the township, days before the Shovel
came out; and nobody went into the office save to
stop the paper or point out the mistakes in the
pars. Newspapers are very fond of talking about
their own and the circulation of other journals.
We are not. We are, in our modest way, quite
content to sell The Bulletin to everybody who
wants it—and pretty well everybody seems to
want it.
Thus the N.SAV. Education Report for
1882 in brief Schools, 1658 (902 in ’72); aggregate
enrolment, 189,141 (88,487 in ’72); average daily
attendance, 90,994 (43,246 in ’72); school fees, £51,812;
(45,994 in ’72). Should a similar rate of progress in
number of schools be maintained during next
decade, there will be by 1892 about 3000 schools.
With reference to the abolition of public Denomi-
national schools, which occurred at the close of ’B2,
the report says:—“The withdrawal of a consider-
able number of Denominational schools will,
doubtless, diminish for a time the number of the
schools maintained from public funds, but in the
course of a few years it is probable the effect of
this temporary interruption to the continuous
progress to the system will disappear.” During
1880, 1881, and 1882 the aggregate enrolment in-
creased tO'Sjthe mean quarterly attendance, 42T;
and the total number of schools, 30’7 per cent. The
number of children eligible for attendance at
school for 1882 is given at 222,426. During 1882, a
large number of Provisional schools were con-
verted into Public schools, but no corresponding
increase in school accommodation was thereby,
provided. During’B2£6s,B3l waspaidfor newschoolj
sites, 67 new school buildings were completed afford-l
ing accommodation for 4285 scholars. Accommoda-
tion for 5085 children was provided for in 79 tents.
37,372 cases were investigated by the school atten-
dance officers, in which children had failed to at-
tend school the 70 days in each half-year prescribed
by law. Of these, 20,854 were found to be excus-
able, but the remaining 16,518 proved to be of such
a nature as to subjeot the parents to legal penal-
ties. Of the latter number, 1855 cases were where
scholars had “ played the wag” “ unbeknownst” to
their parents. Of the 14,633 cases where the
Earents were distinctly liable, only 1271 were
rought into court, in 1176 of which convictions
were obtained. A reduction of 11T8 per cent,
must be made on the gross enrolment for ’B2, to
allow for multiple enrolments. This discount
brings down the 189,141 gross enrolment to 167,989.
Adding to the last number the pupils taught in
other than Public schools, the report gives 206,879
children as receiving some amount of instruction
in 1882, out of the 222,426 eligible for school
attendance. The return for 1882 of children
educated at home is given approximately at 21,530.
During 1882, of the 160,257 children whose attend-
ance at school by the terms of the Public Instruc-
tion Act was obligatory, 159,885 were reported to
be under instruction. The period prescribed by
law—l4o days—was observed or exceeded by 39.3
per cent, of the gross enrolment, and very much
not observed by 60.7 per cent. The standard of
examination of pupils has been considerably
raised during the last ten years. The school pro-
perty belonging to the Department exceeds in
value a million sterling; “inasmuch, however, as
the average expenditure upon sites, buildings, and
repairs during the last three years has been about
£130,000, the value of the property of the Depart-
ment will be added to annually by that sum, and,
consequently, in seven years’ time it will have
risen to more than two millions.” The 34 School
District Boards, in a few instances working well,
“ but an impression appears to prevail very gener-
ally that the districts are too large.” Total ex-
penditure for 1882 amounted to £618,800.
Our unfortunate little imitator in Mel-
bourne has been sued for £lOOO damages for libel
on a journalist. We don’t understand how it could
have done him so muoh damage—unless he read it.
Messrs. Douglas Bros, and Co., the Sydnev
agents of Messrs. E. and J. Bignell and Co., Wia-
geegoara station, Q., inform us that the diamond-
driir, sent by them to the station, has struck water
at a depth of 200 feet.
Joe Cook says that the American nation
is becoming more and more illiterate evsry day,
and that at the present time five millions of the
population of the States oan’t read. Which may
be true—though Joe says it. Who in thunder
would wish to read while he writes ?
It’s the greatest
fun, if you ever
watched, to see a baby
try to put a spoon in
its mouth. See him
hit himself in the eye
with it, like a bear
knocking a fly off his
face, then smear it
down his face, with his
mouth wide open and
turned up like a young
robin s, but it misses
the place on the way
down; he takes it with
both chubby fists,
looks at it with digni-
fied surprise, as though
for the first time aware
of its presence, lets
go one hand, whacks
the spoon against one
ear, and drags it across
the cheek with the
same result. If there
were any raspberry
jam on that spoon his
face would look worse
than a railroad map
of the colony. Finally,
quite by accident, the
spoon suddenly slips
in, he twists it round
and round, and then
looking up, the fun
seems to dawn on him
all at once, he pounds
the blanket'with the
spoon, and miles so
you want to put his
ears back to give his
mouth room.
“You possess
well-marked fea-
tures,” as Professor
Miller said to Pro-
fessor Foley.
A PARTING.
Two lovers whose hearts had grown to one—
Yesterday such was their very speech—
For whom no sweet thing under the sun
Was sweet as the lips of each other to each:
To-night are parting under the moon
With never a kiss nor a word to say—
Nothing to tell to that moon of June,
They twain were the lovers of yesterday.
What was the cause of this woful strife ?
Quarrels many there always be
’Twixt lover and lover, but not for life,
As seemeth the case with these twain, ah me !
Was he not true to the troth he pledged ?
Or did Hate already their hearts benumb ?
No; it was simply that she alleged
When he kissed her he always smelt of rum!
Hallelujah.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, brethren, kneel and pray;
Yes, pray your best,
And let the words you say
Be so addressed —
With meek, suppliant mien
And upturned eye,
Let pray’r and groan between
The rafters fly;
A message to our God
For help and aid
To choke this damning clod.
The Sceptic shade
Now spreads its wings abroad.
Aye growing still.
In galling cursed acoord
With people’s will.
E’en we ourselves are not
Free from its taint—
The hellish leper-spot
Of devil’s paint
Besmears ana fouls the cloth;
Its contact vile
Without distinction doth
E’en priests deflle.
Then raise your voices loud,
And supplicate
That He some pow’r .endowed
With seething hate,
May send, to scatter wide
The fools who dare
Our teaching to deride.
Thus ends our pray’r.
List how they ourse, yet blanch
Their cheeks with dread;
The sweeping avalanche
With stealthy tread
Approaches, bearing high.
With import fraught,
A gift no gold could buy—
The gift of Thought.
No wonder, then, tneir hearts
With horror sink; —
The higot’s trade departs
When people think.
J. B. P.
Mystery.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Most sombre and most dolorous of flowers,
Arrayed in mystic many-coloured blooms,
Yet loving quietness and gentle showers,
And sunlight soft and glimmer of old glooms.
Across the graves—the graves of other years—
A low wind wafts thine odours old to me,
Yet, ever with it, brings a mist of tears
Tor all that was and never more may be!
For, as a man who on a journey goes,
And passes o’er a willow-fringed stream
He once saw flowing through a garden-close
In some mysterious half-forgotten dream,
And halts, and hesitates, and wonders where
He saw the stream before, and doubts his eyes—
So we, when that soft perfume fills the air,
Are filled with sadness and a strange surprise.
This flower’s name is Mystery; but you’ll
Forgive us when we make confession clean,
That, like most other poets of the mystic school,
We don't know what in thunder 'tie we mean!
The Maori god Matuatutougo or some-
thing is made of stone. This is because the
Maoris are poor. Our god is gold. And speaking
of the Maori god, it was until lately in the hands
of a fat Scotch publican who used it as a show-
figure. His own god was probably a beer-keg.
On Wednesday week, a performance of
“Our Boys” was given in the new Victoria
Theatre, by lady and gentlemen amateurs, in aid
of the Parramatta Rowing Club. It Is said nine
hundred tickets were sola, but as we know there
is not that number of people in Parramatta, that
must be a mistake. Still, the theatre was quite full,
and the <flite came, in full dress, while the Cum-
berland Band acted as orchestra, and played some
really fine music. It was ambitious to attempt
Byron’s oomedy withoutany professional aid what-
ever; yet, all through, the performance was of sin-
gularly even merit, and the parts of the Butterman
and Mary Melrose were often brilliant. All the
gentlemen in the cast were Parramattites, also Auut
Clarissa; the cousins Melrose and Belinda being
ladies well-known in Surry Hills. Without laying
down any critical dictum of the performance, it is
fair to say that as it was essentially a publie one,
not given to a packed audience of personal friends,
the applause which frequently broke out was just
so much the more worth having. The Rowing
Club netted a gratifying amount of cash, and they
will now be able to buy a pair of oars, and have
their boat’s name put on its stern. At the close of
the play, Mr. Benson thoughtfully had a rdcherchS
little supper prepared for the Sydney lady visitors
and a few friends, which they dealt with before the
last train started back.


Foster’s Bugle Brand.
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
m
!il
LRAd E f\rtA£3j
BASS PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE;,,
MERCHANTS.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
i e •
at! r.
14 and 16 Spring 1 Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ys in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
co.TTiftlS
m
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &e.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET.
N.TJ.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
TO CONNOISEURS of WHISKEY & BRANDY.
W. & A. Gilley’s CASTLE BRAND WHIS-
KEY and L’OR EXTRAIT BRANDY are the
oldest and purest spirits imported.
TUCKER & CO., Agents,
377 George-strect.
Robert butcher & co
(Late William Long),
i%T WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
, OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
jyj" ELBOURNE CUB, 1883
LEVIATHAN “ADAMASTOR” COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £20,000 in 40,000 SHARES of 10s Each.
624 PRIZES (more or less), £12,750 for STARS,
and £7250 for HORSES.
Plan of Astronomical Distri button:
First Horse (winner of the Melbourne Cup)... £3OOO
Second Horse 1500
Third Horse .. 750
Starters (divide) 800
Non-starters (do) 1200
V First Star £2OOO ***
*** Second Star 1000 ***
*** Third Star 500 ***
12 stars of £2OO each, 100 stars of £lOO each, 20
stars of £5O each, 20 stars of £4O each, 45 stars of £25
each, 100 towns of £lO each, 200 towns of £8 each,
85 towns of £6 each, and “ the comet ” £4O.
“ Adamastor,” in thanking his subscribers for the
liberal support that he has received from them for
the past three years, and in consequence of the
yearly increase of subscribers, finds it necessary to
double his programme, which he begs herewith to
submit.
All parties are requested to forward drafts, P.O.
orders, or cheques; if cheques, exchange must be
added, and in all cases postage fees; if cash, to
register letter. Application by letter only, ad-
dressed —
“ ADAMASTOR,” care of L. A. Pereira, 34
Bourke-street, west, Melbourne; Box 473, G.P.0.,
Sydney; and Little’s Bass Hotel, corner Pitt and
Market Streets, Sydney.
P.S.—Results sent to country shareholders, and
published in The Australasian, Aqe, and Sydney
Town and Country.
NERVOUS DEBILITY,
A CURE GUARANTEED.
BfSu.tA
TREATM, NT
DR. E. C. WEST’S NERVE & BRAIN TREAT-
MENT.
A guaranteed specific for hysteria, dizziness, con-
vulsions, fits, nervous neuralgic!, headache, nervous
prostration caused by the use of alcohol or tobacco,
wakefulness, mental depression, softening of the
brain resulting-in insanity and leading to misery,
decay, and death ; premature old age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain or over-indulgence.
Each box contains one month’s treatment, ss. a
box, or six boxes for 255.; sent by mail prepaid on
receipt of price. We guarantee six boxes to cure
any case. With each order received for six boxes,
accompanied with 255., the purchaser will receive
the manufacturer’s written guarantee to refund
the money if the treatment does not effect a cure.
Guarantees issued by all chemists and druggists in
Australia.
Y D II « PA T H Y.-MR. JOSEPH REEVE,
Hydropathic Physician.
An Infallible System of Purification for the Cure
of Coughs, ColdsAcuteor Chronic Indigestion, Con-
stipation, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Paralysis, Liver
Complaint, Skin Eruptions, or any other Inflam-
matory Diseases. All persons who are suffering,
and weary of using physic, and hopeless, are in-
vited to adopt this Hygiene System. A few weeks’
treatment will suffice for nearly every case.
Ladies and Children attended to. In-door Patients
received at the Establishment. Terms on
application.
“Throw physic to the dogs, I’ll none of it.”—
Shakespeare.
“Purification in the old law did save life.” Milton.
Address:
8 Royal Terrace, Nicholson Street,
FITZROY, MELBOURNE.
SENT in an Envelope for 6d. Stamps to defray
Postage.
SOCIAL SCIENCE s
A Treatise on all Nervous Disorders which cause
Impediments to Marriage, and all Chronic
Diseases : also, How to Choose a Partner for Life,
so as to live happy and produce healthy children,
and how to regain and preserve your health, &c„ &e.
Address: K. T. SELEY, Medical Herbalist,
Devonshire-street, Surry Hills, Sydney.
Copyrighted
%
MOUSTACHE AND WHISKERS.
Hoyd’s Heard l-'lixir did this, and will do it
on either bald head or bare f.ice. forces
heavy .Moustache iti from 2 to -4 weeks and
never tails, _<V»OO young men already wear
lull beard, having used Ito 3 pkt’s. ho
injury, easily applied, certain in effect,
Packets )s. od. each,3for Hs; bd., post paid,
sent under cover.free from observation. Address, F HANK Douglas,
Sole Agent, Kox 730, G.P.0., hydney, N.S-W.
BLEND
[trade!
ARK, j
2fC/$ TEH^S
COLLTE BLEND WHISKY.—This is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATUKED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CAJITELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
■.
Ji^E'RitLLAS
I
RE-COVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY,
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Itepairs neatly exe-
cuted.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
T. /?. SMITH, CHAPMAN & SMITH
Hare much pleasure in announcing- that they have
commenced business as
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS,
HOUSE, LAND, ESTATE & GENERAL AGENTS,
and will be pleased to use their best efforts
on behalf of
VENDORS and OTHERS
who entrust them with the disposal of
HOUSE AND LANDED PROPERTIES,
General Merchandise, &c.,
either by public auction or private contract, at the
RED HOUSE AUCTION ROOMS,
458 G EORGE STREET, opposite the Markets,
and trust by paying strict attention to all business
to merit the support of
BUSINESS MEN AND SPECULATORS.
Subdivisions of land sold on the ground every
Saturday afternoon.
-*T\T A T S O N AND CRANE,
» * SILVER, NICKEL, & GOLD PLATERS.
BRASS POUNDERS AND MANUFACTURERS.
Old • Electroplated Ware, Cruets, Spoons, and
Forks, Tea Services, &c., ro-silver plated equal to
new, at Moderate Charges.
NICKEL PLATING on Brass, Iron, and Metal
Furniture and Fittings of all kinds in Best Style at
Lowest Prices.
JEWELLERY, &c., WELL GILT.
STEAM, BRASS, & ELECTROPLATING WORKS,
336 ITT! 'STREET.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TT ax-d-ertsOxer,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
Ifl WOLFF AND SON,
Li • Manufacturers of
Black Lead Pencils, Drawing Chalks, Crayons,
Artists’ Materials, and Stationers’ Sundries.
Makers, by appointment, to Her Majesty’s Govern-
ment and the Bank of England.
Office and Warehouse: 55 Great Queen-street,
Lincoln’s Inn Fields, W.C. Factory: Falcon Pencil
Works, Battersea, London, S.W. A full set of
samples can be seen, and further particulars ob-
tained, on application to
E. B. WOLFF (Sole Agent for N.S.W.), care of
Messrs. Feldheim, Gotthelf and Co., 80 Hunter-
street, Sydney.
1 M I T H AND MANNELL,
SHIRT TAILORS, HOSIERS, & MERCERS,
298 George Street, Sydney.
Established 1844.
Our CELEBRATED WHITE SHIRTS, ready made
305., 405., 505., 60s. the half-dozen.
The oriental gold company
have been appointed Australian Agents for
this, the Climax of Musical Invention. Call and
see them.
GEORGE STREET,
Just Opposite the Entrance to the Markets.
The Autophone is a wonderful little instrument,
which, while it weighs less than three pounds, has
the lungs of a full-sized parlour organ, and exe-
cutes its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect.
It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three keys, and
all the parts of most difficult music.
On it a child can correctly play, without instruc-
tion, any of its music, which at present consists of
over 300 selections from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas,
Waltzes, Polkas, Marches, Popular Songs, &c. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, in which chords predominate, but also
has wonderful power in executing very lively
pieces.
It is pitched for the voice or orchestra, and has
a little card-holder for convenience in singing-.
Any orchestral Instrument, Violin, Flute, &c., can
bo played to accompany the Autophone.
It is entirely well-adapted for Country Churches,
Sunday Schools, the Family Circle, and also for
Dancing.
The AUTOPHONE is like every other good thing,
the longer you have it the better you like it; and
as new music is being published every week, it has
an endless fund of amusement in it.
30s.
mlKmir
P
™ ’c’- !
30s,
II! h;
i 11
.
or
jgT VISIT R. BURG IS’ NEW T AILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
FOR
CHEAPNESS, FIT, AND WORKMANSHIP
Diagrams for solf-measuring forwarded to any
part of the Colony
?ASK FOR
. _
spir
LATE
’jam es WALKER
EDINBURGH
.Registered
T
0 ho had from ALL WINE AND SPIRIT*
CHANTS, and WHOLESALE from the
SOLE AGENTS:
■J. ... A ■ :
1 CHANGE ALLEY, PITT STREET,
(Near the Circular Quay).
To be procured in Cases, Casks, Octaves, an
.■A
Please read Certificates of its purity
Certificates from the 42nd Royal Highland
merit, “ THE BLACK WATCH,” and the’ilf A t
ment, in u nnivuiv vviviun, ana rue
land Light Infantry, &c., &c., as supplied $
JAMES WALKER, for 14 years, till his deati'M
still supplied to them by JAMES HADDO'' a ,<!
the purchasers of James Walker’s businesAjci
the right to use his name on all Labels, W
Seals, and his Trade marks and symbols.
Notice—The above label register
JOSEPH BOYD & S 1
WRIGHT, HEATON&P
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIES* 5 '
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom H et
and Commission Agents .
HEAD OFFICE :
241 Pitt Street, Sy^
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT
SOUTH WALES.
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.S.WA
Goulbum
Yass
Tiowninsr
Bin along
Harden
Young
Oootamundra
Junee
Wagga Wagg a
Hanging lloc a
Cul cairn
Cowabee
Narandera
Hulong
Carratbool
Hay
Western District, N.S.W- :
Caperteo
Bathurst
Blarney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
Nev l
Nyiigan
Forbes
Condoblin
Nymageo
Cobai
Coer able
Bo> 3
Northern' Difv.uct, N.S.'W - * 5
Morpeth
(a u imcd ah
Narrabri
Walgett
vrewarrina
am w orth
Ural la
QUEEN ST :VND BRANCHES-
Southern and South-Western '
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby
Yeulba
Cambooya
Centkal Line:
Rockhampton
Eogantungan
Emerald
Capella
Comet
Northern Line:
Townsville
Charters Towers
Ravenswood J lll
0P
Agents in Victoria and South Au s A
WM, M'CUZiXiOCH & CO., U***
Agencies in ail parts of the
Sydney Gymnast^
LIVERPOOL STREET j tf’J
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s CIAS 9
ALL BRANCHES OP ATHLETICS T p
G. 11. d’HARCOURT, Instrd 0


||®aCAKTILE ItOAVING CLUB BALL.
Eighth Annual! Ball,,
N BOLDING,
iFRIiD PARK,
, 21st JUNE,
the 'Vorshipful the Mayor,
the Merchants of Sydney.
Dress—Plain a id Fancy.
•'D’eshments by City < titering Company,
by Messrs. Sale and Dare.
Wiai t Hand— The Young Australian.
ra * ns for Parramatta and intermediate
stations, 3 a.m.
bAliniiTTO
PRINCE AI
JpUftSDAY.
Job°nH° p ? trnna -° °f
un Hams. Esq., and i
Stewards :
4- M.L.A.
■Johnnt!,:, , , on > Esq., m.L./
J r i}ifl ,( Iyne, |i]sn
C.}r } ar die, Rsq
Ohas pl ,oro - Esq •
CnH Salil, T>q.
Sir P. A. Jprmin- s
('apt. ,T. G . P.arron
It. Fowl or, Esq.
J. It. TTnldsvrort h, Esq
AV. Lnidk y, Esq.
Jolin Popp, Eki.
C. J. Hnbcils, Esq.
John See, Esq.
J.C^on
M»S"«
I'4S
serai d
Committee :
W. F. Hixson
F. Ives
R. A. Keddie
N. Loekyer
H. Moars
E. Needs
.T. Smart
F. Thorpe
H. E. Wilkinson
C. Wilkinson.
£1 10
1 0
0 12
i{'
saMvsrc:: _ I ...I
SN find c°'’ Farmer and Co., J. I!. TToldsworth,
olll Pson and S (' -j >L ' anc * s ’ Ilucnerbcin, and
i "'bers l)e obtained from Ihe Stewards,
t '—iw, Committee, and the following waro-
L^iercnVm? 8 ??; Penpes and Shaw, E. Cantor, J.
Palin? and Co., Las-
P- MURRAY. ) Joint
W. A. ISLACI\STONE,) Hon. Sees.
Coni„u BULL, Hon. Treasurer.
Wine Cellars,
Mort’s Passnp-e.
AlaSCotte CONSULTATIONS.
jj OI>OI ITAN, & MELBOURNE CUP, 1883.
r,oo ° at 10s. oach ... £2500
l(? 10,0(X) shares at 10s. each £5OOO
q ”
'tors
Koc hl9 S* oo £:>oo °
ti,!"' i.a \i!;l 0n application. .
n Previous consultations, and hopes
nUancoot their patronage for this pro-
letter only.
18 Please state for which event.
D. LINDO,
Box 723, P. 0.;
Hotel, King-street, Sydney.
35, H. PALiifQ,
K g EORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
X
lof °i’tcs,
Pianofortes,
f oli,
Pianofortes.
' vin S renowned English, French, and
Carman Makers: —
Anchor
Ronissch
Hundt & Sohn
Rluthner
Steinway
Schiodmaycr
Challen & Son
Ecke
El eke
Paling: & Co.
A. Bord
Berdon & Co.
Herz
Sclnveehten
Bch wander
Forster
* tlUmGrons other Manufacturers.
& Co., Palace Organ Company;
Cci’k I; 0 -. Pf.louhert, and others.
S? f *«Unort i.^ 1 oh rated Organs, besides otlier
thr. r IRBT niKi Spw.fi at. Poize over all
*4
l ’ A to>
*‘tusT and Speoal’piuze over all
l °oont Sydney Ux itlon.
otl dia
l]sri tJMS
u v Alex an
Sfc oek of MUSIC
jb & Co., ETC.
.ways on hand.
V"i*£to N< frCE.
Nfi ‘‘nil hhev't /, t .8. reinov t to those immense
Sl t (IOr > lately iccupiod by Prince,
Vj‘‘b()('|i,Pres°nt May ailicent Stock will be
• •»» Pit JOES a!
IT G
352
°EGUtGE STREET.
; Wk r
At a. Itp^i
«Sfcu,s-U.S. brSSHotoa wu
Tliix favourite brand
with great care from the
the celebrated llrm of
Hiblin, and therefore
CO. i to he procured every whore.
•• Agents.
::
The Old World
m
fm
m*
yfr~- '■
wo
ol
LOUIS
EXTRACT EIIOM THE “CONTINENTAL
GAZETTE,” PAIUS.
The most surprising- triumph for an American
product at the Paris Exhibition was the success of
TE. Anheuser and Co.’s Brewing Association of St.
Louis, which eclipsed Bass, Barclay and Perkins,
Alsop and Guinness, the world-renowned English
brewers, as well as hundreds of rivals from Austria
:and Bavaria. It is not surprising that a great sen-
sation was produced when it was understood that
the experts reluctantly pronounced the St. Louis
Beer “superior to any malt liquor ever drank upon
the Continent,” and that all Paris is now seeking to
•<] uaff the American nectar.
Sold by all first-class Hotels throughout Austra-
lia and Now Zealand.
J. W. BUTCHER & CO.,
« I* ITT STREET, SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS.
BULL-DOG ALE.--IT is not the' clearness
or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALE
that preserves this , rand tlrst in public
estimation. Common b tter crude beers are
made very tine, but no other brand has the
same mellow vinous cha acter, the fullness on
the palate, and the groat >■ coping qualities of the
BULL-DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cau-
tioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred
to as equal in quality to BIT LI,-DOG. (JATTELL
& CO., Agents. Newcastle Agents: WOOD
i shot mats & 00.
Established it>!7.
FOWLER’S POTTERY and
BRICKWORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
IF your Chemist or Grocer cannot or will not
supply vou with the “PAINLESS COKN
RELIEVED,” write dix-ect to the Registered Pro-
prietor, who will forward a bottle to all parts ©f
Australasia, Post Free, for 2s. 6d.
Address:-JOHN CLOWES,
One Milo Creek, Gympie.
A, GORMAN,
Late of the Telegraph Hotel, Inverell,
HAS OPENED THE
‘ Cl©.re3^Lld.orD-, ,
Corner of ELIZABETH & PARK Streets,
And which he intends to keep as a lirst-class Hotel,
A. G. hopes, by strict attention to Business, to
gain a share of their PATRONAGE. VISITORS
will find this surpasses most of the leading
HOTELS for ACCOMODATION and every CON-
VENiENCE ; and, as it overlooks H VDE PARK, it
must necessarily be WELL VENTILATED.
SUITES of ROOMS for FAMILIES,
as per agreement.
HOT and COLD WATER BATHS.
PORTER in Attendance Day and Night.
It is not necessary to mention the quality of the
WINES., SPIRITS, BEERS, &c. &c„ as he is, and al-
ways has been, noted throughout the COLONIES
for selling nothing but the very best.
D. W. CLARKSON,
TAILOR,
Removed to 97 Market Street,
Naar ELIZABETH STREET.
TWEED SUITS from £3 3s.
TWEED TROUSERS. 16s. Gd.
A PERFECT FIT.
P. R. liAKKIK,
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPIRITS,
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just completed
extensive additions to his
Wholesale and Retail Bottle Department,
Which is now replete with a well-assorted stock of the Best Brands of Wines and Spirits, personally
selected bv the proprietor during- Ins recent visit to Europe. He can therefore confidently recommend
the quality and by charging a reasonable price, as per the following list, hopes to mental share ot their
patronage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him. '
PALE Bit ANDY. Per Bottle.
s d
Gilbev’s very old Brandy, flrold top .. .. 0 6
ITennessy’s V.O. ((very old) bottled by P. R. L. 0 0
Ilennossy's 3 Star (***) <> <»
Dubois and Co.’s Old *** Pale .. . - ..5 0
Pine OH Pale, bottled by P. It. L. .. .. 5 6
Uennessy’s Battle Axe (*) 5 0
Kartell's Blue Label (*) 5 0
Flasks 2s 3d and 2 (>
llaimiasks Id
Ilennossy's Draught Pale Brandy, per Impe-
rial quart Os and a 0
DARK BRANDY.
ITennessy’s 3 Star (***)
Martell’s Very Old ***
Martell’s Old 5s and
Martell’s Dark, per Imperial quart
Flasks 2s 6d and
6 6
0 0
4 0
5 0
2 3
LOWNDE’S W. I. RUM.
DARK.
Quality—Good
Better
Still Better
Quality—No. 1, per Imperial quart
No. 2,
No.-3,
No. 4, „ „
Flasks .. ..
..2 0
..2 6
..3 0
0s and 5 0
..4 6
..4 0
3s and 3 0
Is 9d and 2 0
JAMAICA RUM.
BEERS (BRITISH).
Best Brands of Ales and Porters always on hand.
ALBURY (N.SAV.) WINES.
Burgundy ..
Ettamogah, red ..
„ Muscat
„ Reisling-
Fallon’s Shiraz :.
quarts
.. pints
2 6
2 6
2 6
2 0
2 6
1 6
Pc-r Bottle,
s d
6 IS
4 0
a u
5 0
4 0
;s i)
2 fi
o
u
0
POUT WINE.
40-year old, Gilbey's
Celebrated Four Diamond ..
Quality—No. 1 (very superior old)
No. ***** grape
No.**** „
No. *** ~
No. ** ~
No. *
Draught, Port Wine, per Imperial quart
SHERRY.
40-year old, Giibey’s
Very Finest Amontillado (very dry)
Fine Amontillado
Celebrated Four Diamond Sherry
Common Sherry
Draught Sherry Wine, per Imperial quart -j
BRITISH WINES.
James Ileddle’s Ginger Wine
Orange Wine
IRISH WHISKY.
Jameson’s ***
Old Dublin Whisky (***) bcttled by Lurkc ...
Kinahan's unrivalled L L
Thorne’s Old Irish Whisky
Jameson’s 3s (Id and
Dunville’s ...
Kinahan’s Draught, per Imperial quart
Jameson’s „ „
Flasks . 2s Od and
5
4
3 0
6 0
(> 0
6 0
4 0
2 i 0
5 0
5 0
4 !i
4 0
4 0
4 0
3 (i
5 0
5 0
2 3
SCOTCH WHISKY.
Walker’s 7-year old, in bulk ...
Thistle Blend
Royal Blend
Lome Highland
Kilmarnock
Glenlivet ...
Glenlivet Whiskj
Flasks
... 3s (Id and
per Imperial quart
2s 6d and
5 0
4 0
4s and 5 0
4 0
4 0
4 0
5 0
2 3
GIN.
Blue Bell or Yellow Seal Geneva... 4 0
Celebrated Key Brand, very large size, each
bottle containing more than a quart ... 3 0
Flasks Key Gin ... Is and 1 0
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, all returns being
allowed for. 23P” Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at the Railway
Station or any wharf in the city, Free of Charge.
P. R. LARKIN’S CASE OF ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS.—On receipt of £3, the following
genuine articles will be forwarded in Square Bottles, securely packed in a case
5 Quarts KEY GIN, 1 Quart WHISKY, ] Quart SUPERIOR PORT WTRE,
a Quarts PALE BRANDY, 5 Quarts WEST INDTA RUM, 1 Quart SUPERIOR-SHERRY WINE
TOTAL—IS QUARTS.
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, please make Post Office
Orders payable at the Hayinarkct Post Office.
Kindly Note the Address—
P. R. LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail Wine & Spirit Merchant & Importer,
George and Gipps Sts., Haymarket, Sydney.
JOHN DANKS,
IMPORTER OF
•&S.
r AND ALL THE NECESSARY
FittsEigs for same,
363 Pitt Street, Sydney.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
WIRE WORKERS,
WISH to call your attention to WIRE GOODS
we make and have in stock as under
FLOWER STANDS, for holding- liowers in pots,
made of iron and wire, handsomely framed and
bronzed, suitable for rooms, halls, balconies, ver-
andahs, and conservatories. Also, WIRE FERN
BASKETS, all sizes and prices.
SIEVES and SCREENS, for screening- lime,
grav'd, coal, &c., all meshes, from 1 hole to 100
holes to 1 he squares inch.
WIRE LATTICE-WORK, for protection of win-
dows from breakage caused by hail-storms or boys’
throwing-stones. Also, WIRENETTING, all sizes,
from 12 In. to 72 in. wide.
CAGES oi every description, for canaries an.d
parrots, singly or in nests, suitable for store-
keepers.
And every description of WIRE WORK made on
the premises.
EAST WAY, BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE-STREET.
ZST° Illustrated Catalogues on application.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
“ THE CRITERION;’
15 Hoys3 Arcade 15.
FIRST-CLASS LUNCHEON and REFRESHMENT
ROOMS for LADIES and GENTLEMEN.
The comfort of Ladies has been especially attended
to. An ELEGANTLY-FU RNISH ED APARTMENT
has been set aside for their sole use. It will be
supplied with writing materials, daily papers,
journals, &c., &c.
Gentlemen in town can obtain, AT ALL HOURS,
COLD LUNCHEONS—Ham, Reef, Tongue, Sar-
dines, Salads, Hard-boiled Eggs, &c., &c.
Cup of Tea or Coffee, with Light Refreshment,
6d.: equal in every respect to the celebrated
“CRITERION” BUFFET, LONDON.
Celebrated American Iced Drinks.
EDWARD MAWBY,
Proprietor.
“Yankee Doodle“
AND
“ Conqueror ” Tobaccos.
The above Brands are so well established in the
minds and tastes of all smokers for their purity
and excellence, that it merely remains for us to
caution all against imitations which we regret are
numerous.
- DIXSON & SONS’ Registered Chief Brands are—■
Dark Twists : Yankee Doodle, Twists, 10’s & 20’s 5
Conqueror, Twists, 20’s ; Sir Rog'er, Thick Twists,
10’s ; Challenge, Twists, 10’s and 20’s. Dark Plug
Tobaccos ; The original and only genuine Tin Tag
Yankee Doodle ; Plugs (stamped with a single
round Tin Tag - ). Conqueror Plugs (stamped with
a single round Tin Tag). Bright Tobaccos : Gem
of the South ; Sir Roger, &c., &c. Cut Tobaccos ;
(in J4-lh tins and packets—full weights and with
pure tin foil) Rough Cut Ruby ; Oriental Mixture :
Ncgrohead ; Gold and Cigarette Leaf, &c., &c\, &c.
N.8.-We import regular shipments of Hmr,
Cherry, Meerschaum, Clay, and all other Pipes ;
Cigars, Cigarettes, and all other Tobacconists
Goods.
DIXSON and SONS,
155 YORK STREET SYDNEY.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT
on fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WAREIIAM, Manager.
KIRKER, GREER, & CO., DISTILLERS
BELFAST and GLASGOW.
LOCH DHU, very oldest and purest Scotch
Whiskey.
SHAMROCK, very oldest and purest Irish
Whiskey.
Won 4 Gold Medals and Australian Exhibitions.
Government Analyst says: Unusually pure,
mellow, and well-matured.
FROM ALL SPIRIT MERCHANTS.
Agent: G. ADAMS,
119 Pitt-st., Sydney, and Flinders-st., Melbournrie
WANTED, Pick and Shovel Men at Prospect
Reservoir Works. Highest Wages.
Fortnightly Payments and long job.
JAMES M'GUIGAN,
Contractor,


9
•}
'i
JJL-J
4
fl
Have now Beceived the Great Bulk of their Goods, purchased Direct from the Manufoctu
thereby saving all the intermediate profits, and are prepared to supply the public
both in town and country,
k
EV]
The following are a few of the Bargains now offering. Every article is guaranteed sound, clean, and good: —
White Blankets, for single beds, ss. lid. per pair
White Blankets, for double beds, 12s. 9d. per pair
White Flannel, fair quality, 7-gd. per yard
White Flannel, full yard wide, ll|d. per yard
Horrocks’ Longclotli, genuine, 3}d per yard
Good White Twill Sheeting, Bfd. per yard, double
Soft American Longcloth, 2Jd. per yard
The Best Colonial Tweed, 2s. 6d. per yard.
BILE? BROTHERS \m tbs Largest and Cheapest Stock of Men's and Boys' (Mia; io k U
THESE AEE A EEW OE THE STYLES AND PBICES
Boys’ Sultan Suits, ss. lid each
Boys’ School Suits, 4s. lid each
Boys’ Tweed Cairo Suits, 7s. 6d. each
Boys’ Tweed Nelson Suits, 10s. 6d. each
Youths’ Bour-button Sac Suits, 12s. 9d. each
Gent’s Four-Button Sac Suits, Tweed or Serge, 19 S<
Gent’s Four-Button Walking Goats, 17s. 6d.
Gent’s Warm Ulster Overcoats, 17s. 6d.
Gent’s Double-breasted Winter Jackets, 15s.
Gent’s Fashionable Overcoats, 15s.
RILEY BROTHERS’
Drapery £5 Bales!
Carriage Free by Mail Coacb.
Carriage Free by Steamer.
Carriage Free by Train.
Insured against Damage.
Insured against Loss.
£5 Bales of Drapery.
£5 Bales of Clothing.
£5 Bales for Families.
£5 Bales for Ladies.
£5 Bales for Children.
RILEY BROTHERS, Sydney
A
*5
s
EvT
«^5
->«
*3 «*•
-""i
RILEY BROTHS
Drapery £5 $4
$
Carriage free, and &
paid to a thousand v°^ 6S
Please send for a book
and try a bale.
.srotj
You will save £1 out of eY
and get good wearing ‘
Beware of advertisers
deliver their bales'at *
way Stations; we deb'
right to your door.
RILEY BROTHERS* SJf


# s
1
m
JK&
It nh
\
&541 (aeQR6&ST
OFF.ICS.
eor2 qs ©eot» 6 e STreei
JAMES MACGREGOR,
E®“ 308 GEORGE STREET.
m
MSI
c £LEßßti&\
° X iScotcFW(]i^
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD’S
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
IST MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
0
wmm
G. B. SB ODI N I,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All sroods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 602 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pockot Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborne ; also Angelo Bor-
doni, of Brescia, Italy.
J LAWLER, 608 George-street, Bedding Mann-
• facturer, Importer of Brass and Iron Bed-
steads, American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair,
Kapok, and Cotton Flock. Established 1880.
le, George Street, Sydney.
, r SE RILEY
h e Detective Force),
cSatiy \v. a d many years’ experience in America,
and the Australian Colonies,
thfiv i Alei 'chants and Tradespeople in gene-
.v nave opened the above premises as a
Noth 111VATE ENQUIRY office,
b^stcd^P o '. strict attention to all matters
Q r °nago, J their care, to merit a share of their
iS Libel, Fraud, Missing Friends,
'^hox, btri etest secrecy in all cases.
Ha.m.till 10p.m. First-class references
1
UIE ZES to match,
USER Y PAPERS,
CEILTNG- CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, &C.
J S Imported by
Signder Borthwick,
' STREET (Opposite Iluntor-st.)
& DECORATORS’ MERCHANT,
v niJiw 0 Eead, Oils, Paints, Colours, Var-
Brushes, Gold Leaf, &c.
fl J - ®. R. CLARKE,
°°kseller & Stationer
G Ho)} n d 6 Mar KET buildings,
GE STREET, SYDNEY,
opposite Market Street.
wSe
COUNTRY MILK.
f; U]j K SUPPLIED BY TIO
Food Si Ice Co., Limited,
tOy be relied upon as being
\v. Always puke,
titig f) j ,
frepf?. ned from the country districts, as
110111 city contaminations.
§g!! 8 is
Butter.
in, l o<l i r „ ' iulul acturea at their own depot
O a il iv' o’n 0 ’ n the best butter-makers in the
a ‘*y districts.
twice daily, Sundays excepted,
MtE ° a i’t- °^P ln B' delivery is made. Butter by
uty, daily; suburbs, three times
Food & Ice Co., Limited,
23 Harbour .street.
\Jj
\s>
20
i i:
-~~o
To
j^E
IN T H E \ >-
J '[sbxp #'S jC//?sp S//££jr- '
&
■mTT
f°T)
7 //w m
Auc
rh
R.u P *
$
X «
w
£Ml
If
f
T>
SSsSfr
3f*
% /7
7
Tfr §£coa/£ 1
v -
C> c 7 OZ/V /7a/Z? / 7
r A u i~ ,f J
Aa. - Un.
«a/?
Francisco Pa!ace of Art,
LATE
BOYD.
in 80 well known throughout the Australian Colonies, is now prepared
to the usual FIRST-CLASS PORTRAIT WORK, to furnish the public, as well
ail( t CQIINTRY TRADE, with Copies or Enlargements to Life Size from any
a Pk or negative by any of the following processes Opals, Autotype, Transfer or
tll ized Paper, plain or coloured.
■Prices on application at the Gallery, 252 CEORGE STREET, or l>y letter.
' at he staff of Artists who have rendered the work of this establishment so famous
and all negatives taken for the past four years carefully preserved, from
which copies may be had on application.
.. W. T. BENNETT, Manager.
ALCOCK & CO.’S
J. GARDYNE, Agent.
jE=>ltt Street, S^d-rre^r.
Tyme Payment System if requires!*
Turki&Si Baths.
For GENTLEMEN.—OPEN DAILY (Sundays and
Wednesday afternoons excepted).
For LADIES—On Wednesday Afternoons only,
from 2 p.m. till 10 p.m.
These Baths have been pronounced to ho highly
beneficial to all persons suffering from rheumatism,
gout, neuralgia, dyspepsia, indigestion, cold, sci-
atica, and all complaints of this nature, as well as
being a healthy, invigorating renewing of the
system to all persons obliged to lead sedentary
lives.
Try it, and experience its wonderful effects.
Prices of Admission—Single bath, ss. Six tickets, £l.
After 5 p.m., 2s. for gentlemen only. Quarterly
ticket, £5. Family ticket as per arrangement.
C. A. SII Ell WIN, Manager.
Bligh Street.
QECURE A LOT AT SPRING-SIDE.
£1 DEPOSIT, £1 PER MONTH.
FORT UN ATU S FINANCIAL, LAND, AND
INVESTMENT COMPANY,
jgp 317 PITT STREET,
Near Temperance Hall.
TO SURVEY DRAFTSMEN.
WANTED, Candidates for employment in
above capacity to apply at once to the
Chief Draftsman, or Mr. Peyton, Surveyor-Gene-
ral's Office, between the hours of 11 a.m. and 1
p.m. daily (Saturdays excepted), from whom in-
formation as to conditions of service and remune-
ration can be obtained.
Surveyor General’s Office,
Sydney, SOtli April, 1883. __ _____
Gr. H. SMITH,
MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER
OB'
lE3l£ivts cSo Caps,
tXT 30 2 GEORGE STR EgE T,
Three doors South of Hunter Street.
HAWKES AND COMPANY,
TATTERSALL’S HORSE BAZAAR
and
SALE YARDS,
CORNER of CASTLEREAGH and HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sales Daily, or outside when required.
Horses kept at Livery; excellent accommodation
and fodder.
All kinds of Vehicles and Horses on Hire, day
or night.
Weddings and Picnic Parties supplied with good
carriages,
TRAMS SET DOWN AT THE DOOR.
Conveyances fitted with Hampers for Excursion
Parties.
Sale, Livery, and Let-out Department entirely
separate.
WHAT IS A SECRET?”
SOMETHING told to everybody in a whisper.
Please tell all your friends this Secret, that
they will study both “Comfort and Economy” in
having their supply of WOOD and COAL from
HOTTING- & CO.,
COAL AND FUEL MERCHANTS,
Cowpeb’s Wharf,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO BAY.
TRY IT—YOU CAN’T BEAT IT!
/
<S
*<■
aVV
o
Ca
4 HUi
Sole Agents s
■s*
<2>
ROBERT PHILLIPS AND CO.. 253 CEORCE BTREET, SYDNEY,
M. T H O M A ,
IMPORTER OP
WORKS OF ART,
GERMAN & SWISS WOOD CARVINGS,
ARCADE BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
w.
KERR,
Watchmaker
Jeweller,
and
Silversmith.
H
AS JUST OPENED HIS NEW PREMISES
544 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the TOWN HALL,
With a magnificent stock of Diamond, Roman,
„ , and Vienna Jewellery,
GOLD AND SILVER WATCHES & CLOCKS,
Football, Cricketing-, and Trophy Speciality.
Note the Address—
B?” 544 GEORGE STREET.
HISTORY REPEATS ITSELF.’
As Eve tempted the First Man, so EVE TEMPTS
THE PRESENT MAN; but, luckily, not the same
Eve, but
Tskclss lO^re,
149 KING STREET,
Opposite Theatre Royal Entrance.
With the Best Brands of AM Tobacco and Cigars.
66
M
0
N
D.’
D 1 -
MELBOURNE CUP CONSULTATION 1883.
Capital £lO,OOO in 20,000 Shares of 10 shillings each
DISTRIBUTED AS FOLLOWS:—
First Horse..
Second Horse
Third Horse
Starters divide
Non-starters
£3OOO
2000
1000
1000
500
2 Prizes of £250 each, £5OO
5 Prizes of 100 „ 500
10 Prizes of 50 „ 500
20 Prizes of 25 „ 500
50 Px-izes of 10 „ 500
£lO,OOO
Application by letter only, enclosing stamp, to
“ DIAMOND,”
Care of O. Sehieblich.
Watchmaker and Jeweller,
17 Little Collins-stroet East, Melbourne,
(Near Colonial Bank.)
Prizes paid one day after drawing-, and Horses
paid two days after event.
Result slips posted to each Subscriber, and also
advertised in daily and weekly papers. Shares sent
per return post. Prospectus bn application.
Letters containing- cash should bo registered.
If country cheques, must bear exchange.
N.B.—“Diamond,” in thanking numerous clients
for their support in previous successful racing
seasons, invites their co-operation in the above.
W. Walker and Sons,
FURNITURE MANUFACTURERS,
Bunhill Row, London.
Sydney Branch:
103 CLARENCE STREET, off Barrack Street.
Highest Award Sydney and Melbourne Inter-
national Exhibitions.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and Magazines received by
every Mall.
OYAL ARCADE, 490 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
