

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 1.—No. 28.—New Series
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 34, 1883.
Price—fld.
THE CIRCULATION OF “THE BULLETIN'<
IS NOW MORE THAN DOUBLE THAT OF
ANY OTHER WEEKLY NEWSPAPER IN
N.S.W.-THAT OF ONE VERY OLD ESTAB-
LISHED PAPER, WHICH EXCEEDS “ THE
BULLETINS" BY ABOUT ONE-FIFTH,
ALONE EXCEPTED. THE CIRCULATION
OF “THE BULLETIN" IS THE SECOND
GREATEST AMONG THE WEEKLIES OF
AUSTRALASIA.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1883.
Change for a Sovereign.
The detailed accounts to band by mail, re-
specting the Alfonso incident in Paris, do
not in any way alter the complexion of the
affair as w# understood it from the first.
The insult to the young man was about as
pointed as it could have been made, unless
the mob had actually got at him, in which
case it seems probable that they would have
spat in his face and pulled his nose, even if
they had not torn him limb from limb.
When a mob gets warmed up, the limits of
its actions bear no relation to its primary
Intentions. The difference between a mob
and a Sovereign Prince is that the former
will generally only commit atrocities in
moments of excitement, while the latter or-
dinarily devises the cruellest plans in cold
blood and with deliberation. The reason
for this difference seems to be that Prinees
are trained to state-craft, and as they have
command of the money earned by the mob
when at work, they have always a choice of
clever and highly-endowed counsellors to
advise them, attracted by the share of the
common plunder to which the name of
salaries and pensions is given. Since mobs,
or the constituent parts of mobs, have
learned to think, they, too, have commenced
to imitate the wisdom of the serpent, and to
concoct in secret, and with a callous ferocity
which quitejrivals the brutal indifference to
human suffering exhibited by monarohs
and their counsellors, political projects in-
volving wholesale murder and outrage.
This creates a frightfully bad look-out for
the immediate future of the world. Society
commences to burn its candle at both ends.
The masses evince as much indifference to
the misery which their violent projects may
inflict upon the governing classes, as the
governing classes have since the world began
displayed with respect to the wretchedness
which their selfish aims and ambitions have
inflicted on the masses. Majesties and Royal
Highnesses and Right Honorables dis-
patch hosts of poor devils to kill and
maim each other. The diabolical boast
that S iul has slain his thousands and
David his tens of thousands, is still re-
peated with the old brutal unconscious-
ness of the bloody stain which such celebrity
casts athwart a man’s character. Janus-
faced priests, at the word of command, and
the blast of trumpet, shut their bibles and
missals at the pages which teach a gospel of
“peace on earth and good will towards
man,” and re-open them at the pages which
assert that “the Lord is a man of war,” as
they bless flaunting banners, sprinkle can-
non with holy water, and bless implements
and emissaries of wholesale murder. They
mignt as fitly invoke blessings on the Devil.
It is just as possible to conspire against
humanity in a gilded council chamber in a
palace, with a monarch at the head of the
table and an archbishop outside waiting his
order* to bless the enterprise of “ annexa-
tion ” and the hired murderers in uniform,
as it is to conspire in a grimy cellar with an
informer at the keyhole.
• *
The trouble, now-a-days, is that while the
former process continues unabated the latter
commences a career of equal activity. The
ultimate result is certain. The human race
will be racked and torn with frightful
severity between the rival conspirators.
But its last condition will be better than its
first. The governing castes will recognise
tha* the people have arrived at years of
discretion, and can no longer be humb gged
and outraged with impunity. It has long
been fashionable and customary to raise a
scream of shocked indignation when a mob
insults a Prince, just as has been raised with
reference to this Alfonso business. But no
one has thought it proper or necessary to
so much as mutter disgust when a Prince
affronts a nation. The information to hand
shows that this is exactly what Alfonso
did. He spat in the face of the French
nation. Republican ideas had grown up in
the minds of his subjects. The town popu-
lations had heaved always and risen often.
The very troops were saturated with sym-
pathy for republicanism, and naturally
enough there had been communications with
republicans in France, although not with the
Government of the French Republic. This
was really inevitable, since one of the
greatest virtues of republican ideas is that it
recognises no national separations, and
aims at a European commonwealth. Irri-
tated at the moral support and countenance
which Spaniards received from Frenchmen
against the monarchical interests of himself,
an Italian, Alfonso rushed into the arms
of the German Emperor, the high chief of
the monarchical league in Europe, and the
•special enemy of France. That he should
It was the acceptance at a critical time. It
was the acceptance of a colonelcy of Uhlans,
those light horseman whose boast it is that
they more sharply insulted the population
of France than any other body of troops. It
was not only a colonelcy of Uhlans, it was
the colonelcy of a regiment of Uhlans actu-
ally quartered at Straaburg, the chief for-
tress and city of Alsace, one of those
captured provinces whose occupation by
Germany so deeply rankles in the
breasts of Frenchmen. An insult more
studied or more irritating could not
have been devised. To have submitted
to it would have argued one of two things;
either that the French nation had entirely
lost its spirit and pride, or that it had been
converted to Christianity.
have accepted a colonelcy of a German
regiment was a small matter. Our own
Prince of Wales did the same, and the suscep-
tibilities of our Gallic neighbours were in no
wise disturbed. The English heir-apparent
continued to run over to Paris and lounge
about the boulevards and the green-rooms
without molestation or any abatement of
the popularity which he enjoys in Paris.
• * ♦
The distinction was in the intention of the
two men. The Parisians perceived that the
Prince of Wales aimed no affront at them,
and they took no offence. But they saw
that Alfonso meant an affront and a
menace. How flagrant the insult may now
be understood. It was not only the accept-
ance of a Prussian colonelcy by Alfonso.
The trouble was that while the nation
would have, in the ordinary treacherous
fashion common to all civilized peoples,
waited its chance to strike when it got
Alfonso at a disadvantage, the irritation of
the thoughtless crowd burst through all
prudential restraint. No one can pity Al-
fonso. He was paid back simply in his own
coin. Having spat in the face of the French
people, some of the French people spat back
in his. He was rightly served according to
the lex talionis. But the excited crowd were
intemperate fools. They played their ad-
versaries’ game, and did Alfonso as much
practical benefit as they had it in their
hearts to do him harm. The fools of Paris
rallied round Alfonso all the fools of Spain;
and any Monarch who can count upon the
support of the fools of his own nation, or of
all who can be wrought to folly by working
on national pride, will be pretty numerously
supported.
Sight Honorable!
The other day, the Echo undertook to give
a lead to public opinion with respect to the
election of Mr. William Henry Groom to
the Speaker’s chair in the Queensland Legis-
lative Assembly, and stated the case, accord-
ing to its knowledge, in a broad and gener-
ous spirit. The Echo summed up the argu-
ments for and against Mr. Groom’s election,
and professed to speak plainly. Unluckily,
its summing showed that it did really not
know what it was talking about. After re-
ferring to the laudation of Mr. Groom by
the S.M. Herald’s Brisbane correspondent,
the Echo proceeded that the other side
“may as well be written plainly; it is useless
to shirk it under the vague statement that
* personalities of a most direct and offensive
kind were hurled at Mr. Groom.’ The plain
fact is that Mr. Groom was sent out from
England as a reformatory boy. The taint of
juvenile conviction was upon him, and this,
in the estimation of the purists of the As-
sembly, a quarter of a century of honest,
worthy, and capable manhood has not
sufficed to efface.’’ Upon the premises thus
stated, the Echo argues that those who ob-
jected to Mr. Groom’s election were actuated
by an indecent prejudice. This would have
been a just inference had the case been as
stated. We will not pause to argue whether
any repentance would justify the elevation
of a tainted man to the place of honour in
the Legislature, so long as there was a single
man of clean reputation available. The fact
is that the Echo, through ignorance and
careless neglect to read the debate in which
the “ personalities of a most direct and
offensive kind were hurled at Mr. Groom,”
gives a false colour to the situation, and
distorts the moral to bo drawn from the
actual circumstances. On reference to the
Queensland Hansard, we find the objections
to Mr. Groom very different, far more signi-
ficant, and brought up to a much more recent
period in his career than the Ecu o seemed
to be aware of. Sir Thomas MTlwraith
challenged Mr. Groom’s fitness on two alleged
grounds. One was that he had not been a
useful member of the House, apart from any
question of character. Then, while stating
his acquiescence in the theory that a man
ought to be permitted to work out his own
salvation, and should not be hounded down
all his life for early faults, Sir Thomas
directed the attention of members to so
recent a date as 1880 for proof that Mr.
Groom had not outlived the disposition of
his earlier years. “I will ask any honest
man,” said Sir Thomas,
“To read the papers which appeared In ‘ Votes
and Proceedings for 1880, with regard to Schmal-
ing’s case. Most of those papers were either
signed by Mr. Groom or were in his posses-
sion; and I say that it is impossib.e for
any honest, unbiassed man to read those
papers without coming to the conclusion that had
Mr. Groom been an ordinary man, and not a mem-
ber of Parliament defended by his friends, he
would have come for a fourth time before the
ME. HENRY MOSES, M.P.


The Rates or Subscription to The Bulletin
are—For on# year, 24s.: half-year, 13s. 64.;
quarter, 8s. Sd.—In advance.
The Advertising Rat b* are 5e. per Inch;
special positions In the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per Inch.
Discounts are allowed on eonttnuous
ments ordered for periods as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions,
15 per cent.: For 53 oonseeutive insertions, 35 per
cent. No allowance can bt made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps ef any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
The Federal Conference will commence
talkee-talkee on the 38th.
Mr. “Ted” Lee isbaokagain on the Sydney
Block. He Is looking well, and has considerably
changed his appearance—for he now carries a
black “topper instead of a white, and wears it on
two hairs Instead of on three, as of yore.
Catarrh of the Bladder.— Stinging irritation,
Inflamatlon, all Kidney and similar Complaint,s
cured by “ Buohu-pafba.” Moses, Moss & Co.
Sydney. General Agents.
Goughs and Golds.
rHB Beet Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
far PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6s. P B It IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Bottle Dtpirlitit,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO to
0. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET,
where you can obtain for
©Cl.
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot he surpassed at any
otnor establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler.
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome of all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
4s. 6d. per bottle.
0LYNELI8H WHISKY.
6s. per bottle.
VBRDBILHO.
f Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottls-
1 PORT MACQUARIE RED WINK.
| Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGBB PORT.
3s. per bottle.
1 HBNNBSSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY.
1 ss. 6d. per bottle.
i
t
*
s
,1
e
f
e
f
e
s
n
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street. Sydney.
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE.
CORNER OF PITT AND PARK 8XRBHT8.
PAMES PEARSON, successor to W >Alexander.
I wishes to remind all old customersa
ibllc generally that he has a largo awortm
■awicg. Dining, and Bed L 0 n.
Hco Furniture. al! of grod Quality ana r
le In price. Impectlon §onetted.
judges of his country, and with very bad result*
for himself.”
And Mr. Archibald Archer, the Colonial
Treasurer, and a gentleman of the highest
character and most scrupulous integrity,
said in reference to this same matter :—
“ Not long ago my attention was drawn to the
gapers In the Schmaling case of which the Premier
as spoken. I went carefully through them, and
I am perfectly satisfied that if the evidence that
appears on the records of this House had been
given before a court of Justice, Mr. Groom would
have again expiated a crime against his country
by the sentence of the court. Had that not been
—had bygones been simply bygones—we might
now have said that wo would not stop to ra ,e
them up ; but as I do not believe there has been
any Improvement in Mr. Groom's character, as is
shown by this case on the records of the House
Then Mr. Macrossan, a former Minister
for Works, made a protest
“ I ask hon. members to think what they will
say, not only in the other colonies but in England,
when they hear that the only man whom the fifty-
five chosen men of the colony can select as their
Speaker is a thrloe-oonvloted felon 7”
On this, the candidate interjected: “ That is
not true,” which seems to indicate that on
o*e occasion if not more Mr. Groom’s offence
fell short of felony.
• • •
These extracts appear to point at some-
thing very different from a mere record of
boyish depravity, as intimated by the Echo.
When we turn to the defence made by
the different speakers of their action in
voting for Mr. Groom, we find a significant
absence of denials of the accuracy of the
Premier’s, the Treasurer’s, or the ex-Mln-
ister for Works’ allegations, and an equally
significant tendency rather to justify their
own action by general principles of magna-
nimity than by a reference to Mr. Groom’s
excellences. Mr. Garrick, now Post-
master-General in Mr. Griffith's cabi-
net, contented himself with reminding
Sir Thomas MTlwraith of his willing-
ness, five years before, to make Mr.
Groom Chairman of Committees. In thus
rallying the Premier, Mr. Oabbiok had,
of oourse, to face the inconvenience of af-
fecting not to have heard the Premier’s
reference to the intervening incident of 1880,
and on this omission Mr. Garrick founded
an appeal for—justice? No; for mercy!
Mr. Garrick is a lawyer, and accustomed,
no doubt, to appeal for mercy for prisoners
for whom no hopeful defence could be
made. But mercy for the Honorable the
Speaker? Here was surely a confusion of
Ideas—or of dates. Mr. W. Brookes made a
better and bolder fight. While he, too,
blinked all reference to the Schmaling case,
he fired up very courageously, although it
was somewhat olumiy phrasing—a some-
what suggestive collocation of terms—to
say: “ I am not going ft Bow allusions
such as have been made to his antecedents,
and that muck, to alter my opinion.” Too
much hangs on the syntax of that sentence
of Mr. Brookes’. Readers may ask what is
the ‘‘antecedent” of “muok.” Mr.
Brookrs said:
“ We shall be accounted as having selected the
best man. At aU events, I think so, for these
reasons:—He has been a member of this Legisla-
tive Assembly ever since this Legislative Assembly
was In existence—evsr since the very first session.
There is no one else who can claim the same
amount of political experience. That Is some-
thing: but It does not weigh for so very much as
another circumstance, which is this: that we have
In the hon. member a qualification which no mem-
ber of this House can produce an equal to, and
that is that he has been returned by the same con-
stituency for some twenty-two years. That Is to
say Mr Groom has lived in a small town, where
everybody knows everybody else, and everybody
knows everybody’s affairs and something more,
and he has been twenty-two years returned by
that constituency. Every time that attempts
have been made to turn him out he has got in, I
think I am not exaggerating. I do not want to
exaggerate; but I think that eveirthing that
coma be done by a man’s townsmen to show con-
fidence in him and respect for him, and high
opinion of his political qualifications, has been
done for Mr. Groom. It will be time for some of
those hon. members on the other side of the House
who are so ready to fling dirt, to talk as they have
been talking, when they can show as good a record
as Mr. Groom.”
The last sentence, unless it be a gratuitous
slander, appears under all the circumstances
to shad rather a lurid shadow on the
“record” of the objectors. Mr. Brookes,
however, appeared to speak a good deal at
random, as he further said: “I think that if
we elect Mr. Groom to the Speaker’s chair
we make a choice worthy of ourselves”—a
proposition which will probably meet with
a readier and more abiding assent than will
be entirely pleasing to Mr. Brookes, or his
sons, or his sons’ sons. There can he no
question that the affair must become his-
torical, and that the names of the more
prominent actors in it will be handed down
to posterity, to he glorified by fame, or
smirched with ignominy, as posterity may
decide.
• • •
A Mr. Macfablanr bore testimony to Mr.
Groom’s excellences thus :—
“ That, having known Mr. Groom so long, and
taking him as I have found him, both in the
House and out of it, I have certainly formed as
high an opinion of him as I have of any other
member of it.”
A Mr. Midglrt, formerly a Wesleyan
minister, and laterly a produce dealer, was
more fervid but less safe. He dragged in
references to the last offices of the law—a
subject which oould scarcely be agreeable to
the candidate’s feelings, considering how
little a time before the alleged unfortunate
commencement of that distinguished gentle-
man’s career, it was when hanging was the
penalty for offences which a little later
Involved only transportation. Mr. Mioqley
said that —
“ It will redound to the credit, the honour, and
the advantage of the colony when it Is know- in
the other colonies and the world at large that in
Queensland » man cannot only overcome poverty
and better himself In monetary and social respects,
but can, by perseverance, integrity, and ability,
outlive an Ignoble heritage.”
“Ignoble heritage ” is a nice rounded phrase,
and sounds very prettily; but, as employed
by Mr. Mxd*ley, and in the absence of any
contradiction of the startling assertions
of Sir Thomas M‘In wraith and other
speakers, it apparently signifies either
that a man may inherit three judicial sen-
tences, or that Mr. Groom came from a bad
stock—which had not been alleged by any-
one. Like Mr. Garrick, Mr. Midolit de-
manded mercy, in the following harrowing
strain;—
“ The members of the Government have proved
themselves utterly incapable of anything ap-
proaching mercy. There hss never been a man
condemned to be hanged, whether he deserved it
or not, but they have deliberately hanged him,
even for orimee which in no other civilised country
would be visited with the punishment of death.
Once let a man be condemned to be hanged, and
they hang him; and as for Mr. Groom, if they
could they would hang, dr w, and quarter him. I
consider the fact that Mr. Groom has been a mem-
ber of the House fer so many years, that he has
conducted himself so well, and is so thoroughly
acquainted with the forms of the House, good and
sufficient reasons for voting for him as Speaker.”
To fully appreciate the delicacy of this
advocacy, it has to be borne in mind that the
unlucky candidate thus kindly grouped with
the condemned criminals who had been
hanged during the MTlwraith Govern-
ment’s term of office, was actually present
in the place and listening to the discussion.
The present Premier, Mr. Griffith, was the
only other member on that side who spoke,
and his remarks were peremptory. He did
not trouble to rebut Sir Thomas MTlwraith
or Mr. Abchbr, or to reply to the protesta-
tions of other members who had deplored
the choice about to be thrust on them.
“ This debate in the Assembly be hanged—we
have talked the matter over in our caucus,”
is the sense of Mr. Griffith’s remarks. His
actual words were: —
“ We are, I believe, in a majority to-day, and we
consider it a part of our duty to select a candidate
for the Speakership. We have done so with the
greatest deliberation and after the greatest care,
and we arrived at the conclusion which is embodied
in the motion I made here this morning—that Mr.
Groom is the candidate proposed from this side of
the House. On this occasion Mr. Groom is the
candidate we have proposed, and the sooner we
take a division and settle the matter the better.’*
Whereupon, after a further protestation by
Sir Thomas MTlwraith, the House divided,
when every member of the Opposition, with
one exception, voted for Mr. Groom, who
was elected by twenty-nine votes to eighteen.
The exception was the Hon. B. B. Morbton
(a son of the Earl of Dttcie), and the singu-
larity of his conduct may possibly be
attributed to the circumstance that he is a
gentleman by birth and breeding.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Cost of War.
Exactly one hundred thousand years ago. the
population of the world consisted of two men and
their wives. One of them lived near where the
North Pole is now, and the other at the South
Pole, and both were warriors and diplomatists.
The North man sat down in his cave one night*
and appeared lost in reflection. The thigh bone of
his last enemy lay before him, unsoraped, and, as
he pushed it across to his wife with his foot, he
sighed. The good lady frugally placed it up out
of the reach of the dog, and enquired what sort of
an empire he would like to tackle next. On the
same night, the South Pole man was warming his
feet, and combing and singeing off and scraping
himself with an oyster shell, to give the new
Spring coat a chance to grow. He, too, groaned,
just as his wife crawled in through the hole with
some blnbber in her band, and offered him
a piece. She timidly asked what ailed my
lord, and was answered with a scowl. And,
simultaneously, the two men remarked to their
wives that life was Impossible whilst anybody else
remained alive, and that it became a man of
honour to seek out his enemy. The wives con-
curred. The North man took his spear, left home,
friends, and estate behind, and made a bee-line for
the South Pole. The South man started North,
and laid his plans to go along every meridian till
he found his man. So did the other. At the end
of a thousand years their tracks had crossed and
re-crossed the Equator, 380 points Greenwich
longitude. At length the South man, camping
one night right under the North Star, and making
a disparaging comparison of the Northern aurora
as against those in his far-away heavens, found the
traces of the North man’s recent fire. His martial
soul revived. After two or three more circuits of
the globe he met his man at the Equator. There was
a river three feet wide, and one foot deep between
them, and the warriors dropped their clubs, and
each stretched himself down to have a drink.
Their heads met half way across, and they glared
implacable hatred and undying revenge. Neither
spoke a word, but rose and told his wife to pick
up the swag and start back home to raise morn
taxes for a future campaign. Each man having
arrived at his old cave, expressed regret that cir-
cumstances over which he had no control had
not “ eventuated ” in embroiling the North and
South, but, at the sane time, ominously assured
her that, though “active hostilities” had not
broken out, yet the “relations were strained.”
Not less ridiculous is the state of affairs cabled to
us day after day concerning the state of European
affairs, if we may credit the snappish little ink-
slingers. Here, in a rich world so vastly
greater than our requirements, that, until lately, it
was considered the universe, nothing is heard but
mutterings and threats. The direct cost of this
state of things is incalculable. Millions of armed
loafers are prowling over the world, doing no work
and directly interested in fomenting trouble.
Meantime, for what and for whom do they fight ?
Every little bandy-legged Frenchman and stumpy
Bavarian is dragged away from his work in the best
years of his opening manhood, a gun is put in his
hand, and he is told that La BepubUque or Father-
land will expect him at any time to go out gaily
and have hla little worthless carcase riddled with
bullets or sliced open with a bayonet. For what ?
For himself ? No. His reward in time of victory
or defeat, or in peace, is permission to go and
delve in his little three-acre patch, and eat his sour
herb, drink his sourer beer, and live and die in a
miserable shed. What is Fatherland to him but
a name for a place to starve and struggle in ?
Enduring, docile creature;—he either wears out a
miserable pinched existence on a plot of ground
that an Australian or American couldn’t keep a
sheep on, or he buries himself on a Chinaman’s
wages in the vearyand health-destroying atmos-
phere of some great factory that is making the
colossal fortune of one man who happened to
have the start of him. In the garrets of Paris or
Berlin, the poor wrote- es shiver away their
winters, and suffocate through the smoky and
sultry nights. All this time, a handful of political
adventurers - kings, who are but the descendants
of successful scoundrels of that class ; diploma-
tists, pea-duelling journalists, and military chiefs
—chatter on patriotism, and live on the fat of the
land. To them, Johnny Orapaud or Hans is but
a pawn on the board. He is not supposed to have
any human hopes or ties, and, certainly, no title to
lay claim to the whole fruits of his labour. Neither
has he any right to take ship and get away out in
the vast Mississippi Valley, or the Australian
plains, or down to the bountiful climes and
magnificent islands of the Pacific, to bring up his
family in peace and abundance. Oh, no. There
is a dynasty that has to be kept going, or there is
a chance that at an expend half a million of
lives, millions of desolate I -.ns, and millions of
tearful orphans, a politic tty and its blather-
ing organs may come Into power and public
plunder. It is the plain duty, enforced from the
schoolroom and ratified as the poor wretch is
trodden under the bloody hoofs of cavalry in
Sedan, that the man who gets nothing from his
country should first of all starve In it. and then
bundle himself into the grave with thousands of
his mangled brothers, that Dick may be put out
of office and Tom put In. The actual money cost
of a war can be set down in figures; but what
figures can set out the loss to the world of the
time taken out in a nation’s annual drilling and
parading? And this enormous strain on the
world’s resources is maintained, not by any in-
superable national hatreds, but because, at some
particular epoch, a few scheming fools and rogues
are fighting to maintain or acquire rights and
privileges only tenable from the long-suffering
and reverence for tradition of the people who put
them there. That there will always be wars Is
possible; but that a more widely-spread knowledge
of its costliness and worthlessness to the fighters
must inevitably render them fewer and fewer, is
certain. Without ever hoping to see the federation
of the world, it is impossible but that the force ef
the taxpayers will bring about a mutual reduction,
if not almost entire abolition, of their vast arma-
ments. The world is becoming economical. The
starved peasant and pale-faced city worker want
to fill their stomachs with Ibread, Instead of lead;
and some of the millions now spent in shooting
them will have to be spent in sending them where
people have nothing to shoot about. A wider
spread of education will force this doctrine down
the throats of the legalised plunderers we call
kings and diplomatists. The process will be slow;
but it will terminate in an international sentiment
so strong that wars will occur only on grounds
other than the intrigues of the cunning and heart-
less villains who do none of the fighting.
Unhampered by Ministerial responsibility, Jack
Robertson is now posing before selector* and
boss-cockies as the sole possible saviour of a bleed-
ing country. As to the country being phlebotom-
ised by parties, caucuses, rings, and so on, there’s
no doubt about it. As to the old man of Olovelly
being its sole possible saviour, we’ve considerable
doubts. Yet, for all that, he told the deputation of
Western selectors, who waited upon him on
Monday, not a few home truths. He was
right when he said that the banks were
scratching their heads worse than the selec-
tor*. But the old boy was in the wrong when
he said there was a fair law in existence —and far
more in the wrong when he said that he would be
no party to cobble up the Bill. Hang these party
squabbling* 1 Can’t a respectable majority be
found willing, for the country’s sake, to make a
good bill of it? Without compromise all round
there’ll never be a fair Land Bill, that’s certain I
The best thing to be done is the most expedient;
and any fellow with a grain of sense knows that
nothing can be more inexpedient than any
lengthened period of uncertainty re this agrarian
question. Were there sixty M.P.’s willing te frame
a Bill on the lines of oo "promise above, the ex-
cited atmosphere in which squatters, selectors,
boss-cockies, and bankers are wrangling, we might
have a tolerably equitable Land Law before Christ-
mas. But to hope that, is to expect the impossible.
The most sanguine supporters of the Ministry
count on a majority of ten in favour of the second
reading, but the generally-aecepted tot-up gives a
majority of six only—a majority of six In a House
of 108 1 Too close to be pleasant.
In building up the British Empire the blood of
Irishmen flowed as freely as that of their kinsmen
In Great Britain. The vast majority of Celtic and
Catholic Irishmen of to-day know that an inde-
pendent Ireland is a dream whose realisation would
mean ruin. With Great Britain they must stand
or fall. The odd thing is that when thoughtful
men of unblemished character and advanced
years express those views from a public platform
and gain the unanimous approval of their coun-
trymen, the astute people who know so much
better, remain undisturbed in their incredulity.
In his address to the Irish convention in Mel-
bourne, Dr. O’Dohbbty said that his countrymen
did not seek or desire “ separation from that great
Empire that has been reared largely by the brain,
muscle, and blood of some of the best of our race.
Its glory has become ours. Our destiny is
inseparably connected with it. The geographical
position of Ireland, viewed in connexion with the
future of the great English-speaking people of
the world, la sufficient to indicate what our future
political position must inevitably be—the bond of
union and goodwill between England on the one
side and America and Canada on the other " This
is the very essence of common sense—of common
|«enae that want straight to the understanding of
every Irishman in Australia. But the Abo¥8 and
Age people are too wide-awake to be taken in by
such sophistry. They know (bless them) that when
the Paddies demand the sole right of determining
whether a railroad is to be made through the Bog
of Allen or a canal out in Connemara : when they
insist on land-laws that will obviate the necessity
of their going to the world cap in hand every few
years to beg for bread, they are darkly compassing
the “ destruction of the Empire.”
♦
Mb. Justice Williams, of the Supreme Court of
N.Z., holds views on the libel law in diametric op-
position to those entertained by the judges of
this colony—that is to say, he holds sound and
equitable views on the matter. He sa'd to the
jury in the case of Dbnniston v. the Otago Daily
Times “ If you think that the rest of the article
was a fair comment on what had taken place in
the lower courts, then, although the statements of
fact in the artiole had not been proved to be sub-
stantially true, and you considered the statements
of fact, apart from the question of fair comment,
were not of so very much moment, it might be
open for you to say: ‘Well, the account is not
quite correct, but still these statements are fair;
and looking at the whole artiole, we cannot say it
is a libel.’ It would be open for you to take that
view If you choose to do so. I do not say you
ought to do so. Therefore, even if you found
that the statements of fact are not substantially
true, it would not necessarily follow that the
plaintiff was entitled to a verdict.”


FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
The Hbrbhrton advertiser says there
■vfll bo no peace or security in Queensland till the
blacks “are Included in the Marsupials Act.” As
if they’re not been included years ago I A Mel-
bourne jeweller with the soul of Valentine and the
body of Orson went to visit a station on the Dar-
ling. An old Scotch boundary-rider remarked on
seeing him, “ Losh me I is that a jarler ? He’s
main like an awkward pleughmon ? ” But when
Orson was leaving, he made Sandy a present of an
overcoat, and now that “ chiel ” has so far altered
bis opinion as to say: “ There was aye a somethin’
aboet ’im that tell't ye he was agontlemon.”
In the litel action, M’Alister v. the Northern
Dailt Staitdard (Townsville) the damages are
laid at £9000 A drover named Frazer lately lost
over a thousand sheep who ate the Paroo pois in
plant known as “Nightshade,” while travelling
between Wanaaring and Tinpagee. .Sheep accus-
tomed to the plant like it and eat it without
injury. It only proves fatal to hungry sheep,
brought on to it suddenly. Soon after eating it
they begin to froth at the mouth and swell about
the jaws; and within a few hours they are dead.
Strange to say, sheep In good condition are more
affected by It than poor sheep. This is well exem-
plified in the present case, as 4000 poor ewes for
Currawinya passed over the poison patch just pie-
rlous to the wethers, with the loss of not
more than 30; and a large lot for North Comongln
some days later lost only an odd sheep. The plant
entirely disappears In dry seasons, but Is one of
the first up after rain. It Is a flat spreading plant,
of rigorous growth, and blooms from every little
branch. The only precaution drovers can adopt
who have to pass over patches of country where
this nightshade has appeared is not to take
their sheep on to such places while hungry
He died, lamented In Northern Queensland. His
editor insisted that he should vary the par. about
the travelling dentist The Maryborough
Chrowicle can always be depended on“ Yester-
day, the Prince of Wales’ Birthday, was the forty-
second anniversary of the first accouchement of
the Empress of India.” (I) “ Empress of India ” is
ffood, but “ftrat accouchement ” improves on It
Aria, ex-postmaster at Yass, has failed to get his
conviction on a charge of false pretence quashed,
•fudges Martin, Wlndeyer, and Innes for once
■freed that the conviction was good—as It was, if ■
ever one was. The fellow was really a rascal, anc
the only pity was he got so slight a sentence....
Bailey says that in Gundagai the church and drink
seem to run tandem, for nearly everything- in con-
nection with the church in Gundagai is transacted
at a public-house, even to the vicarage sale
Carcoar Mart’s Burraga correspondent says:—
We want a court-house and a lock-up here very
badly.” Out Variety is delightful.” The
phrase is Shaaespeare’s; and the Sandridge (Vic.)
Borough Council had it in mind when they adver-
tised for an inspector at £2 a week, to look after
•‘weights and measures, dogs and goats, sand-
oarters, and stray cattle.” As one vigorous
billy-goat, who knows his work, is enough to
upset a whole day’s business arrangements of
an ordinary inspector, it will pay the sand-
carters and others included in the municipal
vendetta to keep on hand a stock of those con-
trary animals, and shoot one into the street when
they want to distract the officer’s attention
John Shearer, for many years a resident of Bre-
warrina district, su ic.ded at the Tallawanta Hotel
(reek before last. Sane and sober just prior to
blowing bis brains out, although addicted to habits
of intemperance....Burton Bradley, in the 8.M.
Herajuj, asks the extraordinary question:
What oan three young: men ■who have been pent
up all night in a eellar with two young women do
when they rise in the morning?” and answers it
thusly : “ Does it not follow that they must pull
themselves together (temporarily, no doubt) by
taking a dram each?”—Government Geologist
Wilkinson last week engaged in procuring
quartz from below the 1000 feet level in
the Great Victoria mine, Adelong Civili-
zation still spreads. John Duan (not Don
Juan), a Chinese, has just been divorced from his
wife, up North... The town of Wentworth, with
a population of 700. contains only three “ pubs.”
As an antidote to this Arcadian state of affairs,
it has a much larger army of parsons, who suc-
cessfully make up for the other deficiency....The
Goulbubn Herald finds fault with our parlia-
mentary nomenclature, preferring the title “ Land
Law to “Crown Lands Act,” and so on. In the
past “ Crown Lands Swindle,” would have been
the most fitting appellation. The due baptism of
the law under consideration is a matter for the
future.
• • *
The Oregon, sister ship to the “ Greyhound
of the Atlantic,” was tested te her utmost on her
trial trip. She cleared Alisa Craig: to the Cumbrae
Head, a distance of 39J£ knots, In 1 hour 37 minutes.
This would give the extraordinary speed of 20
nautical miles per hour, equal to 33.080 land miles.
— For years past, there has been a rivalry among
the New York morning papers as to which should
get to the fashionable watering-place, Saratoga,
first. They hire special trains, and the last stage is
done by galloping ponies. Lately, the Tribune
has been ahead, at a cost of £70 a trip. As the
price of the paper is 5d., and only about 700 are
sold, the cost to the proprietors is about two
shillings loss on each Tribune sold at Saratoga.
The ringing of the curfew bell was resumed at
Stratford-on-Avon on the night of September 11th.
One of the interesting features of this revival of
an ancient custom is the fact that the curfew is
rung upon the bell which was tolled at Shake-
speare’s funeral....Raven, first British gunboat
(screw) In Australian waters, arrived In Port Jack-
son on Sunday. She is “ composite,” built wood
and steel, 485 tons, 880 horse power; armament, 64
Armstrongs, two breechloading 30 pounders, and
two Gardner machine guns; complement 60
officers and men. She is commanded by Lieuten-
ant Commander H. L. Ross, and was com mis-
sioned in April last for three years’ service on this
station ...In a newspaper-folding contest In
New England, 500 sheets were put through
by the winner In 19 min. 21 sec
In 1880 there were 75 female and 64,060 male lawyers
in the U.S—The Egyptian Government have
granted a concession to a Greek speculator to raise
what he can from the remains of the French fleet
sunk at Aboukir by Nelson during the Battle of
the Nile. Divers are at work, and already they
have ascertained and buoyed the positions of
six of the principal wrecks, Including that of the
Orient, the French admiral’s flagship, and several
objects of interest, such as swords, old flint
muskets, &c., have been brought to the surface...
In England there were 1200 applications for
the billet of hangman, vice Harwood, defunct....
English papers speak of an extraordinary dis-
covery which Dr. Brown-Sequard claims to have
made. It is an annesthetic which suspends sensa-
tion without affecting either consciousness or
activity, and may be used for a day, or for a
longer period, with Impunity. In other wards, he
has “ Invented ” a drug which will enable a sick
person to perform all the natural functions, and
to assist in his own cure without enduring any
pain. The exhaustion which oemes of intense
suffering will be put an end to ; but there
will be no suspension of those activities the
exercise of which are necessary to recovery...
In England, a horrid policeman has summoned a
clergyman for keeping the children of an orphan-
age with logs chained to their legs Analysis of
the artificial egg;—Tolks formed of paste com-
posed of cornflour, starch, and other materials;
whites of albumen, chemically Identical with the
whites of eggs; Inner skin is a film of gelatine;
the shell plaster of Paris, rather thicker than the
real article.
the Salvation Army perform
h?mM d nhH. nea H y u°. ur fowl-house. If you do, you'll
be much hen-lightened in the morning.
h 1 ? Land BiU fail to pass its seoond
K D &noh£? n0e8 ’* ay there ’ U on th * °PP°-
, f^ r(B P®l Newman made no saorifloe in
leaving the Anglican Church. He saw bis wav to
Eminence in another quarter. y ®
?° th September, Aleo. Wil-
son, boiler fitter. In the employ of the Colonial
SgEf £° r m h W- Nausovi. Fiji, feft the VXSn
f or his home across the R«wa In corapanv
with certain natives. He was known to have
in notes in his possession. On the swie night
criMwere heard of “ White men are
murdering me.” Three day* subsequently hts
tered r , Htl° U H nd u R * Wa Wlth tha bat-
tered and the Jaw broken In two places-evidently
humpyf -wffie r t“ey^ere^lef^for 11 f°rf‘ S atlve
ISSspatasiKasap.fiSS
sati ivsf sTs&B^i
° f slntlment* and U K“!ig
aRainst club abuse on the part of the FMian backed
SmtJs.jSffir to*3sas?g
Mrs. Waloh, widow of the into
W«S; K a ‘ h t '° ot ’ imd “oUMTot Mr. Garoot
Fro^^j 4 . ssrA a 8 £“.2s‘ S
ofooMtruoUo.. f.r-a tt S5f?'„’„,?oJ P^liS
* FREAK OF NATURE.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Trouble among the members of the N.8. W.
Ministry. One half of the Government won’t let
the other half get married until the Land Bill has
been disposed of.
Mrs. Langtry has fallen from her high
estate, Indeed. She’s in the Melbourne Wax-
works. She isn’t so particularly beautiful, after
all, either—not in the Wax-works.
Charles Bright, in the Liberal, acknow-
ledges receipt of a Valley Falls (Kansas) paper
entitled Lucifer. “ We shall bo glad to see more
of Luoifeh,” says Charles—whose desire is, we
think, sure to be gratified.
James Payn, who writes such
tlonal novels, takes no exercise whatever. He
never knew a thing about any sport In his life.
From his door at Malda Vale, he Is driven in a cab
to his London office, writes for three hours, dines
at his club, plays whist, reads proofs, then is driven
home and sleeps ten hours. And he smokes all
day. James will make a nice corpse pretty soon.
The successor to the Hon Mr. Marwood,
C.M.G., who named Bartholomew Blnns, relin-
quished the position of foreman-platelayer at
Dewsbury, on the Lancashire and Yorkshire rail-
way to enter Her Majesty's service. Mr. Bmns
began life as a parcels boy in the same Railway
Co.'s employment, and his elevation to his present
distinguished public position teaches how much
is possible to Industry and perseverance.
A Sydney man, who is now under com-
mittal for alleged larcenies from his, employers,
appears to have planked down the proceeds of his
peculations on Martini-Henry, whose Derby and
Cup wins give the alleged larcenist over £3000.
Strangely enough, the ac rased man’s employer is
himself a winner over the same races to the extent
of about £1000. But there’s not much fun in
receiving from the bookmakers in order that you
may pay the lawyers.
ARCHIE ON AU8TRALIENNE8.
Their presence breathes a subtle charm,
A sweetness quite unique—
A gentle thrill goes up one's arm
At every word they sptak;
A lustrous, dazzling, maddening ray,
Come shooting from their orbs—
Ah, me! they fairly winked away
The heart of Archie Forbes.
Mr. Spaight, sub-manager of the Midland
Railway Co. (Eng.), has been appointed chairman
Victorian Railway Board. He gets a seven years
engagement, at an annual salary or £3000. It was
generally thought that the chairmanship, or at
least a scat at the Board, would have been offered
to Mr. C. A. Goodohap, the highly efficient Com-
missioner of N.S.W. Railways, whose salary now
stands at £1300. It is, by the way. no secret that
during the last few years, tempting offers have
been made to Mr. Goodohap, by one or two big
Sydney firms.
Everyone knows the old joke about the
enterprising bookseller who advertised that he
had on hand
“ Mill on Utilitarianism,
Ditto on the Floss.”
The thing was called to our mind by observing
how the late Mr. Collier’s funeral was referred to
in an English paper“ The Bray Colliery Disaster.
—The remains of the late John Payne, collier,
were interred yesterday in the Bray churchyard.
We feel that we should be wanting in
respect for our many Surry Hills constituents,
who are directly interested In the movements of
the great, did we not notice the anniversary of the
birth of Viscount Ingestrc, the son and heir of the
Premier Earl of England, and Mrs. Mundy-we
mean the Countess of Shrewsbury. Great rejolc-
jngs were held recently on this interesting occa-
sion, at Ingestre Castle, and, at a dinner to the
tenants, an affecting speech was made by the Rev.
Mr. Morton, vicar of the parish. Mr. M. s bishop
told him not to notice the Earl; but the rev. gen-
tleman doesn’t seem to care. Perhaps he contem-
nlates taking a trip somewhere, and has already,
not only selected the tea-set, but counted the
sovereigns.
Cromwell Fleetwood Varley, who died in
London on 2nd Sept., was remarkable as one of
the best electricians of the age. and as being a
relative of the great Protector, his mother having
descended direct from the marriage of Oliver
Cromwell’s daughter with General Fleetwood.
Cromwell Varley began as a youth in the service
of the English Rlectrio Telegraph Company, and
rose till he became its chief electrician, holding the
post until the telegraphs were taken over by Gov-
ernment, and during that time his discoveries and
Improvements in electricity would fill a volume.
The first cable successfully laid across the Atlantic
was his design. He investigated Spiritualism a
good deal, for he was not a man who allowed the
world to think for him.
“Blnns,” the name of the new British
hangman, is a name which will lend Itself to fine
jokes and to many rhymes.—
RHYMES.
With drunkenness ’tls that crime begins:
You commence with a Bottle, and end with Blnns.
Once the wicked’s evil star would
Lead them on until their sins
Brought them face to face with Marwood;
Now they’ll come to Mr. Blnns.
The Sheriff the list of candidates thins
Till there’s Taylor of Lincoln and Gateshead Blnns;
Bury of Bradford no favour wins,
So there’s only Taylor and Gateshead Bmns.
On the latter the Sheriff his faith he pins,
And Marwood’s successor is Gateshead Blnns.
The intricate network of relationship
formed by the intermarrying of royal families
renders it a most delicate matter of adjustment to
get royal young men married to royal young
women so as not to spoil the general effect. A
younger son of the Duke of Argyll loved an un-
titled lady, and told his papa so. The Duke replied
that as his eldest son had married a Queen’s
daughter, he must consult Her Majesty. Queen
Victoria observed that, since Albert’s death, she
consulted Duke Ernest of Saxe-Coburg on all
such matters. Duke Ernest remarked that, since
the unification of Germany, he always conferred
with the Emperor in cases of that kind. Kaiser
Wilhelm immediately explained that he could not
for the world and all the ballet-girls thrown in
sanction any marriage unless his Prime Minister
did. Bismarck didn't want to consult anybody,
and said that as young people who loved one
another often got into difficulties by not marry-
ing, they’d better wed at once.
Shakespeare’s bones still enjoy their in-
tellectual repose in the little church at Stratford-
on-Avon, and his skull is riot to be interviewed by
a crack-pot phrenologist. Hallelujah! Therumour
of his probable disinterment was a terrible scare
for us great writers, but now we can proceed to
die with the assurance that enthusiastic admirers
In future ages will never be permitted to do
exactly as they please with our clay. Perhaps,
though, it would be safest for Bulletin poets to
be cremated—
the poet’s prayer.
When I’ve passed the time allotted
To a poet here,
Oh I let no lunatics besotted
Tamper with my bier: *
Let me not to England’s “ Abbey ”
Ever be translated—
When my flesh is feeling flabby
Have me, then, cremated.
[• All poets love liquor.—Bn. B.]
Sir Frederick Leighton, president of the
Koval Academy, has received Her Majesty’s com-
mission for a portrait of John Brown, and the
great artist Is terribly perplexed over the job. It
seems that he is hesitating between painting John
m he was—in a kilt, and carrying the royal rug
•id footstool— or as he is, attired in a pair of hlgh-
Hm* wings, and carrying a cornet. The Queen
KffMta a compromise, and thinks the departed
fillle would look most like a hero in wings and a
ilt, but Sir Frederick, with his high art training,
revolts from such a mixing of things. In the
meantime, the picture is not yet commenced; for
Sir F., before putting John on canvas as he is,
would like—temperature being usually an index
to drees—to gain an inkling as to where he is-
SIR FREDERICK'S FIX.
A suit comprising kilt and wings
Seems somewhat odd and even,
And scarcely like the type of things”
That people wear in Heaven.
Again, ’tis hard, one must confess,
John's present sphere to tell—
I’ll study up the style of dress
That gillies wear in—heaven.
In Dutton Cook, who died recently, Lon-
don has lost, perhaps, her best dramatic erltlc. H e
was the only theatrical writer on the metropolitan
press who always insisted upon placing his initials
underneath his notices. A great favourite with
the late Charles Dickons, Dutton Cook wrote many
of his best novels in Add the Year Hound, one of
them, “ Hobson’s Choice,” attracting, at the time
of its appearance, a large amount of attention.
“ Leo,” and other novels followed, but they were
inferior, though the style of each—especially his
shorter tales —was singularly artistic in point of
diction and ingenious with regard to plot. Where
Dutton Cook especially shone was in writing about
the theatrical world. The last critique from his
pen was a notice of Sydney Grundy’s “ Glass of
Fashion”—a satirical comedy recently produced
at the London Globe. “ The Glass of Fashion ” is
the name of a society (so called) newspaper, and is
possibly intended to satirise the very paper the
late Mr. Cook’s notice appeared in—the World.
In any case, the criticism in question is a fierce
philllpic in which is embodied everything that
venom could suggest or hatred occasion—a very
unusual style of notice for Dutton Cook to write.
The deceased writer lived in a beautiful villa in
Regent's Park, and died in affluent circumstances
—a fact which was either owing to his earning a
great deal or not spending much.
The sensation created by Archibald Forbes’
couple of magazine articles appears to have been
greater in Melbourne than elseweere. The war
correspondent found himself a greater man in
Melbourne than in Mackay. He was looked at in
Brisbane, admired all thereabouts, but was wor-
shipped in Melbourne. Its “ intense loyalty” will
warm the coldest day and illumine the darkest
night. It was George Eliot’s weakness to poke
fun at radicals, and Bulwer Lytton and Thackeray
rioted in picturing the hoodlums of “ the straight-
forward radical persuasion.” But these writers
had no such field for caricature as Victoria.
There may be found the ne plus ultra of un-
conscious self-contradiction. The victims of
manhood suffrage and vote by ballot sun them-
selves on the pans asinorum of political science,
and think they nave all the Euclid of the political
universe under their pants. Of course an intelll-
gent visitor can see what they cover, and cannot
help being amused with their cackling. To any
one who has kept his head clear, the blatant blow-
ing about “intense loyalty” 1 the veriest bunkum.
It cannot stand any strain. Reputable men at
home are right In simply laughing at it. There is
not the slightest doubt that Forbes has said of it
just what Gladstone and Northcote think of it.
It is only effusive blather, generated in a region
where political science is in its infancy, and where
there are very few people who see into the pro-
blem of life half an inch beyond their noses.
The engagement of Kate Vaughan—whose
portrait we see in all the Sydney books? Hers’—for
1 his year’s Drury Lane pantomime, makes it look
as though Col. Wellesley’s matrimonial arrange-
ments may have been altered, after all. But be
that as It may, Augustus Harris has displayed his
usual cleverness in securing the much-talked-of
lady for his pant.: for where Kate is, there will
the mashers be gathered together, and the extra
“stall” patronage of the gilded \ outh will,
doubtless, make even “the largest salary ever
paid to any artist in pantomime ” a good business
speculation. Drury stage will be crowded
with old associations for Kate. It was there that
she made her first appearance before a West End
audience, some twelve ye .rs back, in a “ can-can”
bill let by “the Siste s Vaughan.” Kate was boss
of the quartette, and in a costume of all blaek —
black bodice, skirts, tights, ard boots—with golden
hair streaming down her back—we remember; ah,
so well I—she looked particularly fetching. It was
this same costume that helped to get her name up;
Burnand, in Punch, going into raptures over it as
the most modest ever worn by a ballet-dancer.
Kate is too big a swell now to dance with the
vigour she displayed in those days. She wasn’t a
“ possible ” duchess then, but lived in very modest
lodgings on the south side of the Thames, and
walked to the theatre every night with her sister,
Susie, in a long waterproof, and boots of the
beetle-crusher type. Susie Vaughan, by the bye,
was supposed to be (she wasn’t, though) the wife
of W. B. Fair, the author of that pathetic little
ballad, “Tommy, make room for your Uncle:”
but she has never mixed in the same exalted sphere
as sister Kate.
An English paper remarks:—“We are be-
coming quite nauseated at the continued post-
humous ovations which are being numerously
paid by the Queen to the memory of her deceased
gillie, John Brown.” It seems that a costly monu-
ment already marks the last resting-place of the
“ good and faithful servant,” while a neighbouring
mountain supports a “ cairn ” in remembrance of
him. For having been an intimate acquaintance
of his, a Windsor hatter has been knighted. But
this is not all. Sir Frederick Leighton has been
commissioned to paint Brown’s portrait, and the
Poet Laureate to preserve his memory in a dirge.
When last heard of, Teanyson, in company with
the “ Grand Old Man," was reading some of his
poe ns to half-a-dozen crowned heads and a crowd
of Imperial Highnesses at a family gathering at
Copenhagen. To descend from this to grind out a
flunkey’s elegy 1 So the Journal before us goes to
the rescue and suggests the following :—
“ Courtiers, leave me here a little.
While the sun is going down,
Leave me here, and when you want me,
Murmur gently, ‘Old John Brown.’
“ ’Tls the place, and all around it
Skims the graceful white sea gull.
And the weary oxen stagger,
As did Brown when he was full.
“ Many a day I’ve seen him tetter
Downward toward the garden gate,
Many a time upon a shutter
I have seen him laid out straight.
“ Courtiers, leave me here a little,
Carry in ray hat and cane;
And for old John Brown, the gilllp,
You can just bet your sweet life you 11
never see his like again.”
The particulars of the insolvency of our
old and esteemed friend, Signor Blllgreeno Gug-
lielmo Verdi, are to hand, and many are the tears
that will bubble up in .the melting eyes of Sydney
maidens when they learn that the Signor’s assets
(so far as concerns the unsecured creditors) only
amount to £1 in cash and pawn-tickets for £280.
It seems that a Melbourne pawnbroker, Mr. Jacob-
son, lent Guglielmo £380 on £480 worth of jewel-
lery—a proceeding on his part which leads one to
the conclusion that Mr. J. is, to say the least, a Jew
with the gentle and generous proclivities of Fas-
cination Fledgloy’s Riah 1 It is our intention to go
to Melbourne shortly; and as there has lately ap-
peared, on part of the Sydney licensed usurers, a
disposition to scout the silver geneva and to keep
us waiting with the baby’s boots while loans are
? ranted to alcoholic females on flat-irons borrowed
rom their neighbours, we shall certainly give Mr,
Jacobson a call. However, since we learn by
wire from Bingera that Messrs. Falk, there, have
got 300 diamonds for five days’ washing, we have
no doubt that Verdi will soon appear in public
coruscating with the old famil lar gleam. Dunning
is a creditor for £480, money lent; Mussy for £69
odd; and Friedman £64. 6s. 6d. Verdi went broke
running an Italian opera company in Melbourne;
but Bill’s “ little eight” a day are, we hope, all
right anyhow: for we take an especial pride in
seeing Archibald Grosvenor made daily as beauti
ful as two shaves and a check suit can make him.
Since Verdi won’t sing under a deal of money a
week, a lot of people thought he was rich. This,
then, ought to be a lesson to Signor Guglielmo
never to sing in future under twice as much
money a week. Now that they are going to pro-
duce “Patience” shortly at the Royal here, we
suppose we shall have the pleasure, in a week or
two, of once more feasting our eyes on the beau-
teous baritone. We trust his grief—for he has
had losses—will not affect his vole®. This genera-
tion is not ready yet for—our little joke—hoarse
opera.
The Rev, Charlea Strong, the bcte noir of
the Melbourne Presbytery, has taken his departure
for England, minus his certificate, but plus a
cheque for £3000 from his admiring friends, which
latter document—to quote the reverend gentle-
man’s words—" he was not too proud to accept.”
The presentation was made at the Melbourne Town
Hall the night before his departure, and while the
Presbyterian General Assembly were shaking their
sanctified heads in an adjacent building. A note
was despatched to the Rev. Charles, desiring him
to attend the brethren, and kindly inform them
whether he was a heretic or otherwise, but as the
spiritual summons was delivered into his hands
(he was on the platform at the time) almost simul-
taneously with the worldly cheque, he didn’t
go, and was “sacked” from the Church next day ;
so the interminable Strong controversy is at an
end. Well, Strong’s has been a pretty pleasant
“ martyrdom,” after all. He takes away a douceur
of £3000 (and possibly other little monetary con-
solations of which we have heard nothing), and
—that very breath of a parson’s nostrils—notoriety;
on the other hand, the Presbytery have expe-
rienced the sweet spiritual consolation of
“ deposing ” him as a heretic. Both sides ought) to
be satisfied. We are perfectly satisfied, and so are
going to sing a little hymn :—
STRONG’S FAREWELL.
I have done pretty well in this generous land
From which I am now a departer—
This nice little cheque, which I hold in my hand,
Is very good biz. for a martyr :
Though things were not smooth ’twlxt the bre-
thren and me
(There were dozens of points we disputed),
After all, ’tis as well that we could not agree.
Since it pays best to be persecuted.
So I bear them no manner of grudge—not a bit,
But go with the best of good feeling—
Each side played the cards that seemed proper and
fit,
And I got the best of the dealing ;
By this eneque, I confess, I am greatly consoled,
The world is not yet without honey—
For though I’m a shepherd without any fold,
Thank goodness I’m not Without money.
Sam Lazar, who died on Wednesday week,
was a personage about whom are clustered many
Interesting recollections. He was what is known
as “a good fellow,” and certainly possessed to
perfection, until his seizure, the art of enjoying a
Targe number of the good things of this earth. As
a manager, he was—so far as his efforts at the
Royal (where he had practically a monopoly)
were concerned —a conspicuous failure; many of
his seasons closing to deplorable results. Poor
Sam had, in a word, too many friends; and his
“ set ” was one that was more conducive to money-
spending than to money-getting. The free-list
during Lazar’s reign at the Royal told in itself an
astounding tale—scores of the names hearing upon
the face of them a very singular significance. Sara
could act a little, spar a little, ride a little: and
1 had also a pleasant little humour which caused
him to he held In some favour as a raconteur. His
last theatrical speculation was some two years
ago, when he produced “ Slndbad ” at the Royal
in conjunction with Arthur Garner. But just aa
the piece was in full swing, the alteration in Lazar
began to be plainly perceptible. He would arrive
nightly, and proceed, poor fellow, with the aid of
a pencil and paper, to “make up the house- ’•
his total being, usually, some thousands of
pounds in excess of the actual “ let.” It
was painful to watch, day by day, the rapid
change that came over the expression of his
face, and to know that the weeks of his freedom
were growing more and more limited. At length
he used to be driven about by a keeper feebly
disguised as a groom; but for a very long time
the old habits were upon him, and he would haunt
the theatre office and Bastway’s by day, and sit
vacantly in his box at night, when, at last, it
became necessary to put him under sterner re-
straint. no more beautiful retreat could be found
than that to which he was removed—Bay View
House, at Cook’s River. But poor Sam’s malady—
brain-softening—was practically incurable. He
grew, we are informed, so rapidly worse, that very
soon it became impracticable to allow him the
slightest freedom of any kind, and it was felt by his
friends that the end would be (what a horrible
satire this term is, sometimes!) a “ happy release."
Mr. L. is credited with having done, while in his
prosperity (and even in adversity) many kind and
generous actions; and if it happened (as it often
did) that he was frequently kind and generous to
the wrong people, his benevolence is not to
be the lighter thought of, nor the sooner for-
gotten, on account of that. It does not seem
so long since the names “Sam Lazar” and
“Jim Booty” were household words in Sydney.
And now 11 We remember the imperious manner
in which Booty—much to Lazar’s amusement—
would order actors off the side-walk in front of
the office; we remember the tiff they had, the
subsequent coolness, and then the departure of
Booty with a diorama. The next slide is Jim’s
funeral, which had nearly as much of the gro-
tesquely comic element about it as the obsequies
of Mrs. Gargery. There was hardly a “ pro.”
present. And now the old friends will
meet, perhaps, to renew the friendship in the next
world which was so quietly broken in this I Qut
saitt Mr. Lazar leaves a brother (Abraham) who
was for many years treasurer of the T.R., Adelaide,
and two sisters—and a favourite niece who is
married to Mr. Frank Goldney, until recently
a printer in the Herald and Government print-
ing offices. And so;—
Ring down the curtain and put out the gas,
The transformation ends the glitt’ring play;
The glaring poster is a blank—alas I
There’s nothing in the Bill of Life to-day.
Lord Rosebery and Lady R. arrived on
Saturday by the Zealandia, and soon after the
Government House carriages had deposited the
distinguished guests at the gubernatorial resi-
dence (it’s easy to see we have been on the Even-
ing News I), behold us in our chariot dashing up,
and demanding to see the noble Earl. After some
delay, the benign butler—the same who chris-
tened the Tasmanian Premier “Mr. Giblets’’—
ushered us into a little dark parlour to the left of
the hall—an apartment we discovered, from the
overpowering odour of “Nubian” pervading the
atmosphere, was the repository of young Gussy’s
boots, two pairs of which so comfortably filled a
corner cupboard that in order to keep the door
closed there had to be impressed into the service a
lemonade wire and a fish-weight. After the short
lapse of an hour or so, the aide-de-camp appeared
and instead of, as we had expected he would, lead-
ing us at once to the presence, he started back on
perceiving us, and asked rather hurriedly if
we had seen his boot-jack, adding—“If you
wish to interview any of- the women servants,
it is round by the other way.” A word of
explanation at once puts matters, however,
on a pleasant basis; and Gussy merely apolo-
gising for leaving the door open, as it obviated the
necessity of his resting his feet upon the Pembroke
table, proceeded to entertain us with a little con-
versation. At the end of two hours, the idea
seemed to dawn upon him that we might require
some slight refreshment, and, after some few
moments of deep and anxious thought, he de-
parted in search of it. Half an hour more—during
which we entertained ourselves with The Bulle-
tin almanac, which, with an illuminated Scriptural
text, “ The Lord will Provide," was posted on
the wall—fleeted rapidly; and, at the expiration of
that period, the Hon. G. returned, and, after
glancing furtively around, produced a jug from
under his dressing-gown. “ You see,” he said, with
a faint smile, “ in order to uphold the dignity of
our position in this colony, we deem it de-
sirable to patronise colonial industries. His Excel-
lency has done so in the matter of Macquarie
wires, until he has several times been rendered eo
unwell as to crow for several days in succes-
sion—to the confusion and embarrassment of the
Cabinet. I follow up—with regard to the encou-
ragement of home manufactures—on the same
sine. Allow me to ” (here he felt in one of his
pockets) “to —oh, here it is. You’ll excuse the
act of my only bringing one glass, but the fact W
the visit of the noble Earl (who is at this moment
knee-deep In muffins upstairs) has caused rather a
run on the tumblers.” Here he filled and drank
off a glass of colonial beer with great apparent
relish. “You will observe, doubtless, he con-
tinued, wringing the troth from his mous-
tache, “that the flavour of this beverage is
enhanced by a dash of English. I do not do
this as a usual thing; but it has, I trust, always
been a principle observed In this establishment
to scorn a little extra outlay when it is
question of entertaining a gentleman honouraoiy
known in the world of letters.” Here a bell rang
violently. “His Excellency requires my pre-
sence,” he said hurriedly; and draining ini a
moment of abstraction the jug, he thoughtfully
departed. Two additional hours glided softly
away upon the wings of time, whem, at length, tn
fourth footman appeared u pon the scene. t rom
Lord Rosebery,” he said, handing us a card, we
took it reverently', and clutched it to our hosom-
Mastering, by a violent effort, the throes of our
emotion, we retired to the window, and pinni g
up the blind read as follows “ To the paper man
below. I have nothing for you. Then we passed
sadly out, pretending not to notice as we made ou
exit through the hall that the guard at the castle
had been doubled—especially in the neighbour
hood of the umbrella-stand. For revenge, we loos
into the immediate future.
• • •
Thadeus O’Kane has publicly apoioffMd
to Lisener, for “certain false statements written
by me in the treat of an election contest. , —
lines of Mr. Mainwarlng, who some months ago
filled the editorial chair of the Christchurc
Globe, have fallen in pleasant places
arrival in London. He has married a young may
who certainly could not be truthfullydese^b^a
a “penniless lass,” and obtained a leading position
on the literary staff of the Standard.—Jam”
Talwhanga, brother of Sydney
“ Maori ambassador who visited Australia
time ago, was found hanging by the necs
whare at the Bay of Islands. Another res
the introduction of civilisation. ■•The 8^? more
laced parson in N.8.W. lives out West. He
than straight-laced. Ho is stay-laced, ( . g n w iii
hardly say he’s a bachelor Stuart O Br e *
was lately sworn under £301... .SirSamuel a
has purchased a large estate in Derbys—pfured-
cost of £300,000. Samnel-of-the-tiame-coloureCj
beard, finding that he can t get himself regaro
as the pure merino by aristocracy, is ? *
“ found a family.”.... Archibald Forbes br t
Peter, is now in Townsville, Q. He is am q
n rough-looking customer, but a gentle
man withal The Devils Own: ._Luke
last Saturday, last day of term ■
O’Meagher Kingsmill, Julian Windeyer, Leo“ ert
Gibson, William Henry Lander, M.A., w .,,j an i
Henry Grace, Charles Louis Tange, B A., -jjgn,
Edmund Panton, Walter Tremenheereor
William Dunne, and Charles Joseph M (n
Mr. Solomon, sen., father ot the co-respon
the Horwitz divorce case, is, we hear, senou*/
Mr. F. Bevan, who wasatonetime staff sur
In the Townsville district, has resigned his.
slon, and is now editing the Northern ST we u
in the same plaoe....Mr. L. n(1i
known in literary circles throughout yu
is at present in Sydney—Mr. Gordon goo
A HINT TO HASH-SELLERS.


popular basso, Is leaving Auckland for Melbourne.
Governor and Lady Des Yoeux, of Fiji, arrived
at Sydney last S nday per Rockton.
« •
Disraeli, when being taunted as to hi
being a Jew, replied: “ One-half of the world wor-
ships a Jewess, the other half worships her Son.”
Lord Ronald Gower, the alleged sculptor, who
is editing a life of the Queen, written by Sarah
Tytler, is only 36 years old, but he began to keep a
diary at the age of eight —In a N.Y. paper of 5th
September we see an article headed “A Porcine
Peer,” referring to Lord Onslow, now on a visit to
the States. His lordship is spoken of as “ a titled
ass,” and it is remarked that “ the British Peerage
contains a larger proportion of snobs, cads, rakes,
libertines, bruisers, drunkards, noodles, and black-
guards that can be found outside of a rat-pit.”
MM. Yacob and Plddingtonsky should see to this...
A short passage of arms is related as having
taken place between the two authoresses, Mrs.
Beresford and Miss Helen Mathers. When the
former lady was about to publish her novel
“Poppy,” she intimated to her publisher that the
book was a “twin novel” to “Cornin’ thro’ the
Kye,” Miss Helen Mathers’ first literary effort.
The letter being shown to Miss Mathers, she re-
plied to Mrs. Beresford that she was “ under the
impressalon that twins always came into the world
together, and had never known of one being born
seven years after the other ” —“ Cornin’ thro’ the
Rye ” having been issued in 1876 Mark Twain
is not, as has been alleged, seriously ill. The
author of “The Innocents Abroad” is never in
the enjoyment of remarkably robust health, but
just now he happens to be in rather better condi-
tion than usual. Like the Prime Minister, Mark
Twain is a great believer in cutting down trees as
a health-stimulating exercise, and humorously de-
clares that within the past year he has cured him-
self of no fewer than thirteen distinct diseases by
the practice There is no truth in the report of
the divorce between the King and Queen of
Roumania When Queen Margherita of Italy
arrived at Caen recently, she was received at the
railway station by the customary high officials.
Ketusmg to partake of the lunch prepared for her,
™ e requested to have a glass of eau sucr6e. This
was immediately brought. After drinking the
.■ ®y 8 rage, King Humbert’s consort put her hand
m iier pocket, probably seeking her handkerchief,
n.,f r * u P°n one °f the dress-coated, white-tied de-
110 i 10n . rushed forward breathless, and whis-
> with a most respectful bow, “ Your Majesty
need not trouble, everything is paid for.” —
neury Irving has been bitten by a dog. The
iv* n kry quadruped; mistook the slender tragedian
jPF, a bone, probably “ The Old Man of the Sea”
nn<T e last i dame given by the unrighteous to the
a-going Premier of England Many years
in,*’ u °n the Prince of Wales was learning draw-
iripAf- one day took it in his head to sketch a
imn,* ln *.between Napoleon and Wellington, from
i m “"j na W°n. He only understood just how much
t there jwas in it when the Duke in-
him that Napoleon and himself had never
to i'P* 1 was true Dion Boucicault, who Is
tourin • troupe in his own car next American
D an ’going to charge each member of the oom-
WashiT? collars a head per week—" ehampagne and
cent),!'? extra.” A Boston impresario, who re-
soenioio i ve * led a hatch of dramatic critics and
the olio m **3 similar manner, charged extra for
A n,m, atnpagne ' hut nothing for the washing
titlpa o? oeia has been written by Swinburne, en-
on . hes Casquettes the name of a lighthouse
Island of dangerous rocks near the Channel
to v e heroine is a girl born and bred there
's4d m SShood, without having seen the mam-
la Sir ¥>„ ,n Mr. Gladstone took a trip to Sweden
Went £°P. ald Currie’s steamer, he and his family
and nnvf *i ne at the Royal Palace at Fredensborg,
hnguiov > vP9 ra l a £ the Premier gave the most dis-
°n board breakfast party, probably, ever held
tonie nf m hip. After it, Alfred .Tennyson read
chosen flVJ 8 ow , n Poetry, and none could iavebeen
the “aie/tor than he who wrote the Welcome to
The . m ?’ 8 daughter from over the Sea.”
t®n),“an;? t* Included the Czar, Czarina (and child-
Queen Strand Duke Nicholas of Russia; King,
KitiLf 'Wown Prince, and Princess of Denmark;
na Queen (and children) of Greece; the
Princess of Wales, the Prince Albert Victor, and
Princesses Louise, Victoria, and Maud, of Wales;
and about 40 foreign Princes, Counts, Admirals,
and Ministers. No other untitled man in the world
could have got together that company at his
breakfast table James Carey’s widow seems to
be under 40, and must, a few years ago, have been
decidedly pretty. She has regular, clear-cut
features, lines which have been blurred and lost
their freshness from sorrow, and, perhaps, drink;
her hands are coarse, her head shapely, and her
hair, once auburn, now prematurely grey At a
late meeting of the British Association, Professor
Ball (of Dublin, bedad,) innocently observed:
“None of our watches keep exact time, for some
lose one way and some lose the other.’*... Passa-
nante, who attempted to assassinate King Hum-
bert, of Italy, is in a convict prison at Elba. He is
of a very quiet disposition, picks oakum, and reads
devotional books whenever he gets the chance
Sir Roger Tichborne, Lie Claimant, seems likely
to “ striae ile ” at last. Ho now poses as a “ perse-
cuted Protestant,” and attributes all his woes to
Roman Catholic duplicity and priestdom. Some of
the “ hot ” Protestants will, doubtless, eagerly
welcome him into the fold, and, as a matter of
course, champion his cause, rig ht or wrong, against
the (to them) “ accursed Papist.” Setting loose
the religious dogs of war is one of the most suc-
cessful dodges to gain notoriety and champion-
ship in a shaky cause— Voung George Vanderbilt,
fourth son of the millionaire, wants to be a news-
paper reporter. There it crops out again;
the natural, educated, and hereditary greed for
gold; the insatiable thirst for wealth, the
passion for amassing millions by the easiest and
quickest methods, and reaching a fabulous com-
petence by the shortest ways. It’s a family trait..
The Duke of Hamilton cleared £30,000 by the
victory of Ossian in the St. Leger It is with
profound regret that we learn that the Prince of
Wales and Dr. Griffin, Mary Anderson’s stepfather,
do not speak as they pass by ... Bismarck’s weight,
taken at Kissingen during recent years, varied
thus : 1874, 307 pounds (German) ; 1876, 319 pounds
1877, 330 pounds; 1878,348 pounds; 1879,247 pounds ;
1880, 237 pounds; 1883, 233 pounds; 1883,303 pounds.
.. The daughter of Bayard Taylor has, until
recently, been supporting herself as a governess
in New York. She and her mother declined a
purse of £6000 raised by New York ladles on
learning that Bayard Tayler died poor......
Worth, the Parisian fashion king, is 55 years old,
fat, pleasant-looking, and most impressively bald-
headed Captain Horatio Boss, Great Britain's
most famous shot, Is still living, at the age of 83,
and last year climbed a mountain 3515 feet high
without resting on the way. He is the only child
of a sporting sire, and was born at Rossie Castle,
Forfarshire. His father was colonel of a regiment
raised during the French invasion panic early in
the century. When colours were presented to this
regiment, a salute was fired, and young Ross fled
in terror. His father, exasperated, told a servant
to fire a gun over the boy’s head every morning.
At last the man persuaded him to fire at a sparrow.
It fell, and thenceforward young Horatio took to
his gun. Captain Boss was also a first-rate horse-
man. He was formerly a member of Parliament...
Lord and Lord Rosebery’s arrival in ’Frisco did
not cause the flutter among the becm monde which
was anticipated. Still the pair received a
good deal of attention quietly, preferring to dine
sans ciremonie with those who offered them hospi-
tality, to receiving more elaborate attentions—
Zola, the French writer, drinks brandy and water
while at work. And now we think of it, his writing
does savour a little of his potation. John Bright
has not touched spirits for ten years, and he finds
his health improved. Canon Farrar is a total
abstainer. President Arthur drinks rye whiskey
during the day, and never less than a bottle of
champagne at dinner....” What shall we do with
our boys ? ” is the question of the day in England.
The answer is—why, bring them up to the profes-
sions which are the most remunerative, and the
preparation for which is the least expensive. For
instance, have your eldest son for a bookmaker,
your second for a jockey, the third for a comic
singer, and the fourth for an acrobat......
An Oxfordshire baronet has left his estate to his
confidential valet, who had lived in his service
from boyhood. The baronet, a hot-tempered man,
in early life struck and killed a servant. The valet,
then a page-boy, was the only persofhwho saw the
deed done. He testified strongly in hh*vmaster’s
favour, and remained in his service until his death.
— Latest job in the British Civil service :—Edgar
Vincent, Lieutenant Coldstream Guards, with a
record of six years' service, all told, has been ap-
pointed Financial Adviser of the Egyptian Govern-
ment, at a salary of £3000 a year. Sir Edward
Malet, a verteran official, only drew £3500. Cook-
son, C.B., Consul at Alexandria, who nearly lost
his life at the late outbreak there, draws £1000.
Both were overlooked in favour of an unknown
stripling. Favouritism amnia vince(n) t
Lord Ronald Gower, in his book, says that Bea-
consfield had an imperious face, and Mr. Roden
Noel says that it was like a mask Lydia Thomp-
son is on the shady side of forty. 8ne made her
at the Haymarket Theatre, London, in
1856, and that was before she entered her teens—
“ Lady Clare,’ - the play by Robert Buchanan, was
recently under consideration by Mrs. Langtry, but
she decided not to take it, on the ground that the
title-role was too strong for her... Peck, the
author of “The Bad Boy,” says that when his
mother asked him why he made such a fool of
himself, ho replied: “ Because it is the most
profitable thing a wise man can do.”....Dr. H.
Webster Jones the Chicago physician who has
given up a practice worth £15,000 a year for another
man’s wife, and eloped with her to Australia, is a
grandson of Noah Webster, the lexicographer
Miss Margaret Howitt, daughter of William Ho-
witt, the English poet, has Joined the R.C. Church.
... Sir Moses Monteflore will be 100 years old on
October 3,1884. if he survives. He is in excellent
health — In the fact that Mary Anderson has
never married, an American paper finds a con-
firmation of the opinion that she is the most
classically beautiful woman on the stage... Prin-
cess Louise has on exhibition seven of her own
water-colours. One of them represents a blue
cow grazing in a lavender meadow, through which
a purple brook filled with pink fish purls along
under a green sky, in which a terra-cotta sun
flames gorgeously — Rosa Bonheur is 61, but is
said to be full ®f energy and in excellent health.
In conversation with a young artist, not Ion# ago,
she said: “ My dear, you can t afford to ignore the
opinion of the world, even in small things. If you
do, you ar« sure to suffer. It doesn’t pay to be
eccentric, even if your eccentricity helps you
along in your studies. You must remember
that all studies are a means to an end, and
you are to sacrifice nothing, nothing what-
ever, that can defeat or hinder that end.”
Henry Darlot, a very old colonist, died last week
in Melbourne. He came out to Sydney In the
ship with the late Sir Redmond Barry Some
fellow has recently been doing the grand at Long-
branch, under the alias of the Duke of Newcastle.
A fellow must be very low down Indeed when he
chooses to seek either bubble notoriety or more
material plunder under such a name!
Some English Radical prints are getting almost
offensive. “A pretty family compact this, is it
not ? ” one calls th" intention of the Duke of Cam-
bridge to retain the Commander-in-Chiefship of
the British Army till the Iron Duke (of Con-
naught) is old enough to occupy his shoes The
Speaker of the Commons—Sir Henry Brand—is 70.
Other men get a chance of forty winks, especially
when the Irish members have the “flure”—but
he, never. He is painfully wide-awake, and, hav-
ing sat till daylight at a recent debate, might be
seen at 10 a.m. taking his morning walk with a
cigarette between his teeth Fred. Roberts has at
last got, by cabrank rule of seniority, the lieuten-
ant-genera’lship he should have specially got for
his Afghan work.
The latest novelty is “zinc tombstones,”
which are cheap, do not rust, are more
durable than marble, won’t clip easily, and, unlike
the dear departed, whose virtues they comme-
morate, “will stand any climate.” In these days, of
holy insolvency and pious fraud, epitaphs should
be written on brass.
The weakest woman, smallest child, and
sickest invalid, can use Hop Bitters with safety
and great good. See.
Messrs. Wright, Heaton & Co.’s New
Warehouses.
We give in this issue an engraving of the great
new warehouses of Messrs. Wright, Heaton, and
Co. (limited), which are situated in Pitt-street, on
the sight of the old Labour Bazaar. For many
years this splendid site—one of the very best in
Sydney—lay half unoccuppied, till Messrs. Wright
and Heaton made the purchase of the whole block;
and then, in order to meet the requirements of
the enormously increasing business of the
Arm, the warehouses shown in the accom-
panying engraving were erected. This fine
structure is evidence of the great development of
trade which is going on all over this free-trade
metropolis of the colonies. On every hand there
are similar signs of what new Sydney is to b«.
The warehouses of Messrs. Wright and Heaton are
of Immense strength. The excavations for the
foundations were of great depth, the solid rock
being reached, and the advantages secured are
the most extensive cellarage to be found In
Sydney. The block comprises five large ware-
houses rising to a height of four storeys exclusive
of basement. Immense iron-bark girders, resting
on 8-inoh iron pillars, give additional support to
the floors. The five stores comprised in the on-
graving are, as it were, duplicated in the rear a
storey higher. A new street has been opened from
Market-street running the extent of the whole pre-
mises, giving increased means of ingress and egress.
On either side of this wood-block roadway rise the
groat warehouses of Messrs. Wright and Heaton —
on one side the structure here illustrated, and on
fhe other the firm’s bond and free stores, new
known as the City Stores. Powerful hoists operate
on all the floors of the two buildings, greatly faci-
litating business operations of every kind.
The firm of Messrs. Wright, Heaton, and Co. has
now for some time occupied the position of the
first carrying firm in all Australasia. They hare
over seventy branches in different parts of the
colonies, each branch having extensive ramifica-
tions, connecting with almost every town, settle-
ment, and homestead in the colonies. Altogether,
employment is given to about 230 clerks and fore-
men, and continuous work is given in the carrying
line to upwards of 45,000 horses and 64,000 bullocks,
owned by teamsters all over Queensland and New
South Wales.
Mr. Thomas Rowe was the architect for the
building.
Au American alderman (bless us), named
Fitzgerald, is anxious to engage in a six days, go-
as-you-please with Rowell, the English pedestrian.
Fitzgerald, we are told, takes great care of him-
self, and feels confident of doing 600 miles. Here is
a splendid example for over-fed “ oivlc-dignl-
tanes ’ in other parts of the world.
The Steeplechaser.
There was a man so fond of races.
He always rode at steeplechases;
And proud was he when on the course
Before all eyes he took his hoise
Across the sticks.
He rode so hard and so perverse.
At last he rode off in a hearse—
The coffin’s size he took was six—
The ruling passion strong In death,
You see: he went with his last breath
Across the Styx.
THE NEW WAREHOUSES OP WRIGHT, HEATON, AND CO. (LIMITED), P1TT-STREET, SYDNEY.


AUTHOR, LEADING ACTOR, COMEDIAN, and
MIMIC,
“ One of the moat versatile artists on the London
stage.”—London Daily Telegraph, January 1881.
~T~V SG3 to announce that he will make his re-
13 appearance in MELBOURNE on Saturday,
December 8th, for seven nights only, at the
BIJOU THEATRE, where he will have the honor
of presenting, for the FIRST TIME IN THE
COLONIES, his great Sensational Domestic
Drama, entitled.
Mi. in mom,
THE WANDEEEE!
ed by him with ENORMOUS SUCCESS in ths
‘ old country.”
TEARS, SMILES, and ROARS of LAUGHTER 1
The Wanderer I The Wanderer !
The Wanderer!
Tour commences Boxing Night, December 28th.
Mr. Glover’s Repertoire will include several of
his own Dramas, Comedies, Farces, Ac. Amongst
others,
“THE WANDERER I”
“ WEAVING A WEB I "
“ THE SPIDER AND THE PLY 1 ”
“ MABEL’S DREAM,” Ac.
Managers, requiring a “ big draw ” and * sure
success.” kindly communicate. Theatres required
on Rental or Share.
Address:
RAINFORD’S CAMBRIDGE CLUB HOTEL,
Oxford-street, Sydney.
CAUTION.—Legal proo eedings will at once
be instituted against anyone “PIRATING” the
Dialogue, Plot, Scenes, Title, or Effects of any of
my Plays.
QJ
P E R A
USE
« and Manager W. J. Wilson
GRAND COMEDY SEASON,
under the management of
MB. WYBBRT REEVE.
Brilliant Audiences. Enthusiastic Reception.
Electric Success of Sardou’s masterpiece,
DIPLOMACY
Diplomacy.
The Greatest Play of Modem Times.
EVERY EVENING.
Magnificent Scenery and Stage Appointments.
Stage Manager Mr. Herbert Flemming
Acting Manager .. .. Mr. J. W. Dodge.
Overture at 8 : carriages, 10.80.
Box office at Huenerbeiu’s, 411 Geo.-st. Tickets
may be obtained at Roberts’s, next Theatre.
Prices as usual. NO FREE LIST.
THEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, A Mvsgrovb.
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
A Greater Success than ever!
THIS and TO-MORROW EVENING,
at a quarter to 8,
OLIVETTE. OLIVETTE.
Saturday, Grand Revival of LA MA8COTTB.
Prices as usual. Box office open from 11 till 4..
General Business Manager, Mr. H. H. Harwood.
T
HE LAST COURSE IN THIS COLONY—Dr.
SIMMS, the Unrivalled Physiognomist and
Popular Speaker, will deliver an Illustrated and
Amusing LECTURE on Lips, Mouth, Teeth, Gars,
Music, at Temperance Hall, TUESDAY EVEN-
ING, November 27, at 8 o’clock. Admission—Is.,
28. Entertaining public character-readings at the
close of each lecture. This last course is drawing
to a close.
..To-day (and dally until the next lecture), from 9
a.m. to 6 p.m.. Dr. Simms will he at the private
ante-room of Temperance Hall, in order to supply
the public with thorough written Descriptions and
his large Physiognomical Charts, accurately
marked to Indicate the Intellectual, Social, and
Moral traits of applicants, their state of health,
the occupations for which Nature has adapted
them, and the character of person they should
choose tor a life companion. Consultations pri-
vate.
BRITISH PRESS—“Dr, Simms is known as a
most skilled practical physiognomist.”—Piotoral
World, London. ‘ • Dr. Simms is the most able and
the most popular exponent of physiognomy
among living men.”—Monetary Gazette, London.
“Dr. Simms reads character and diseases from
faces a* though they were open books.”—The
Times.
Cr
A I E T Y
THEATRE
ANNA M. POTTS, M.D.,
the Eloquent and Popular Speaker, Graduate of
the Female Medical College of Pennsylvania, will,
by request,
LECTURE
THURSDAY EVENING, 22nd NOVEMBER,
on the
Jlroulatlon of the Blood, Heart, Lung, Liver,
Consumption, Causes of many prevalent and
fatal Diseases, and bow to avoid them.
THURSDAY AFTERNOON, at 8 o’clock,
IMPORTANT LECTURE,
FOR LADIES ONLY.
LAST LECTURE, FRIDAY EVENING, NOV. 28
Subject:
“LOVE, COURTSHIP, and MARRIAGE.”
On FRIDAY AFTBROON, the Last and Most
Important Lecture, for Ladies will he given.
Evening Lectures commence at 8 o’clock.
mission to any lecture—Orchestra Circle, 3s.;
1,2s.; Gallery, Is.
Mrs. Dr, Potts and the Drs. Harrison are stop-
dug at the Clarendon Hotel, corner Park and
Slizabeth streets. Hours : 9 a.m. to 3 p.m.
CONSULTATION FREE.
EDUCATIONAL.
IBS LYDIA HASTINGS Instructs In VOICE
BUILD ING> ELOCUTION, PUBLIC and
ILOUR READINGS. Class at SYDNEY
,AJV/ U XV w - - .
OOL OF ARTS, Friday, 4 p.m.; and at
KEY ARCADE, Room 36, Thursday, 3 p.m.,
nesday, 8 p.m. (Ladies and Gentlemen).
x>rs invited.
vate Lessons, for Ladles or Gentlemen
INTER STREET, opposite Bllzabeth-street.
■mw for Schools or Clubs on application.
TO PROFESSIONAL TROUPES.
rOW open for engagement at NYNGBN, near
Railway Station, the
“ASSEMBLY ROOMS,”
large and weil-appplnted HALL. Apply to
A M’KKNN A,
T3ae
/
NO SECOND CHEAP HOUSE.
22 and 24 CLARENCE STREET, ONLY,
FOB GOOD GOODS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS & WAGGONETTES,
BACKBOARD WAGGONS, AND EVERY STYLE OF BUGGY.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Clarence -street.
ZESellaTbl© IBta.g'g'ies!
i
VIRTUTIS GLORIA MERGES:
COALCLIFF COAL.
ThU NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY supplies the CHEAPEST, CLEANEST, and
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony,
£1 per Ton net, delivered within city bounds.
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and bars*kept well free from ash, makes a stronger,
more lasting, and cleaner fire that any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky flare and soot of
Newcastle ooalL nor does It splinter and fly off like the Western, but It affords that domestic desideratum
of some s-ir,Hq of RngDab coal of heating an Iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a
charcoal or breeae lire, while it Imparts to the steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwhole-
some fumes given off oy a breeze or gas fire.
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS,
Office: A. B. BLACK, 247 George Street.
DEPOT : WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
TO SEWING MACHINISTS.
BROOK’S
500-Yds. Machine Glace.
(WONDERFULLY ADAPTED FOR ALL MACHINES).
For Excellence and Economy there is nothing to compare with it
SEE YOU OBTAIN IT.
- C°
383 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
our* Lawn Mowers
are all GUARANTEED,
and so confident are wo of always being able
to give satisfaction that we will send
our Lawn Mower* on approval.
We make tke
liwi Mower Trade
a Speciality I
i.ndhave in Stock all sizes, so the require-
ments of everyone can be met.
Our Prices range from 30 Shillings,
and any Purchaser who is dissatisfied after
trial, is at liberty to return the machine at
our expense.
We Invite Inspection, and cheerfully
furnish every information.
REMEMBER. ’ WE GUARANTEE EVERY LAWN MOWER WE
SEND OUT.
■rsmumut:
- — ::
urn
if®
m
iPW
iku e.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINK of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS.
Offices: 42 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane to Bundaberg. Gladstone, and
Port Maokay, every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
Buninyong
Barrabool ..
Rurvr ah
Cheviot
Derwent ..
Edina
♦Balmain ..
♦ To arrive.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
42 King Street, Sydney.
Lambton Athletic Club
President: Thomas Croudace, Esq., JP.
Vice-President: Dr. J. B Nash, JJP.
Treasurer : Mr. Richard Ward.
THE above Club intend holding their ANNUAL
MEETING on
NEW YEAR’S DAY, 1884,
when £80 In Prizes will be competed for.
ALL COMERS’ GRAND HANDICAP; distance
150 yards. First prize, £20; second, £8; third,
£1. Entrance, 5s.
A MILE HANDICAP. First prize, £7; second,
£2 ; third, £1. Entrance, 3s.
NEW YEAR’S GIFT HANDICAP. Distance, 100
yards. First prize, £5 ; second, £1; third, 10s.
Entrance, 2s. 6d.
HALF-HOUR’S GO-AS - YOU - PLEASE. First
|mize, £4 ; second, £110s.; third, 10s. Entrance,
Allrnnners must appear in running costume
and state, at the time of entry, the colours In
which they will run; also, give a truthful account
of their performances for the previous twelve
months; if none within that time, the three last
is required. All entrances to be sent direct to the
Secretary, in whose hands they must be by the
16th December, and from whom all information
may be obtained.
JAMES MCWILLIAMS,
Hon. Secretary,
Lambton.
THOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR OP THU
ZULU WAR.
NEW DIORAMA
OF
EGYPTIAN W A R I
W. H. THOMPSON, Proprietor.
8YL. RYAN, Agent.
New South Wales Racing Com-
pany's Consultation
OH
TATTEESALL’S CUP.
NOW OPEN-1884.
6000 Subscribers at lOs.
First Horse .. £1000 1 Non-starters
Second do 2501 divided.. .. £200
Third do 150 I Prize Gifts TOO
Starters divided.. 200 ——
£2500
RUN ON NEW YEAR’S DAY.
W. BURNHARD, Secretary,
2 Wentworth Court, and Box 255 G.P.O., Sydney.
XX XXxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx i
ARVELS IN MILLINERY. XX
XX
HATS, trimmed (and all) for XX
4s lid XX
Ladies’ BONNETS, fashionably trim- XX
med, 10s 6d XX
Untrimmed HATS, from6d (sixpence) XX
upwards. XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
M AI
Ladles'
We sell more Millinery than any other XX
XX house in the colonies, because we sell at xx
XX extremely reasonable prices, whilst at xx
XX the same time giving a good, fashion- XX
XX able, and effective article. Find us out XA
XX —HORDERN’S, in PITT-STREBT, No. XX
XX 211. XX
T ADIE8,-LEADERS OF FASHION XX
Jj IN SYDNEY.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX .w YT
XX N.B.—Not only oan we supply the
XX fashionable world of Sydney, but our xx
XX country cousins are invited to send to X*
XX us for samples.
Please recollect to see our
GLOVES and NETS
TO-DAY.
HORDERN’S in PITT-STRBE I’.
XX
XX
XX
xx
XX
xx
XX
HORDERN BROTHERS,
211, PITT-STREET.
XX
XX
_ , —„ —
IX Gauntlet Gloves. „ , vf
:X Also 4, 6, 8, and 10-button Swede x
IX Gloves, in the fashionable tints, which 4,
:x we are selling at a Rule more than han
IX me usual price. xX
:x We sell Calvat’s celebrated KID
LX GLOVES cheaper than any other house
:X in town. . „ a \X
LX Our 4-button French Kid Glove at -8 .
LX lid per pair stands unrivaUed at the
LX price. , _ \X
LX We have an endless variety of Ladies
LX and ChildreuV, Lisle Thread and Taffeta
'X Silk Gloves, from 2d per pair.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
211, Pitt-street.
aaaaaaaAAAAAAAaaaaaa^
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx^
4 CONTRIBUTOR to aU the lea.
\ and magazine* of AustraUa, MUPpR**. t«is,
a. leaders, essays, sketches, &o., and new» re0t >
ommunicatlons may be addressed to
ire of Bulletin office, Syaney.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
theatre Botal— “ Olivette ” p. 8
Opera House—“ Diplomacy ” lb.
i
George Rignold has left Australia at last.
Tt seems incredible, but there is no smaller allow-
ance of extra crimson about our sunsets in oon-
•Inuencel After Rignold, George believed most
in " The Romany Rye.” Parting from his audience
in Adelaide, the other night, George burst into
roeech-making. Unkind people say it was a unique
•necimen of oratory. It possessed a Chorus, too
a voice at the wings—as thus:—
George : As regards the Press and “ The Romany
jive,” ladies and gent lemen-I-er—that—the Press
said —er-I—
Voice: Touch ’em up, dear.
George: Br it is a good acting piece: and if
Sims is-er-good enough for Me—I mean—1-er-for
T ondon, he is good enough for Adelaide.
voice: Say something about yourself now. You
haven’t said a word about yourself. Tell ’em we’ve
made money. , . . ... ,
George: I-er— I don t pretend to say, ladies and
gentlemen,that I haven’t made money in Australia,
because I have—I-er-never had a bank—
Voice: No, no, George, you’re wrong I
George: Hal I—er— never had a bankrupt feel-
ing while I have been in your hospitable country.
Therefore, I shall return, and I shall probably live
and die among you; I—er—I—may not care much
what becomes of ’em, but I shall eventually leave
mv bones in Australia.
Voice: Not if I know it, George I
And so forth, , . ..
But Rignold was a decent manager, and the
oeople he employed and paid had no bitter re-
manis to make concerning him. He will return at
Easter to open the Sydney new theatre—if it be
ready And listen! He will in future only play
ficrnikonallv himself, intending to import an en-
tirely now Juvenile lead!I! Sound the loud tim-
brel I We may be happy yet!
* * * *
Coppin delights not Adelaide. If au
author in his dotage writes a foolish book, those
neople who read and admired the splendors of his
virility are not likely either to buy or read his last
mistake. No sane person can dispute this propo-
sition. Now, why will not ancient histrlons see
that the underlying principle is the same for both
professions? You can’t be always growing old and
gouty and fat, and yet assume the far-away airs
and appearance of the once gay, smart Lothario I
There is little reverence among the new genera-
tion. They will never pay to see a man simply
because that man, forty years ago, amused their
progenitors. Yet Coppin, on the assumption that
the new generation will do exactly as the old, pays
Darrell £160 a week for the Royal, while Darrell
pays Allison £100 and sits down calmly to pocket
the difference. We hope that, as Darrell is the
Great Dramatist of Australasia, he will at least
spend a £10-note on providing three yards square
(say) of new stock scenery for the T.R., Adelaide.
After Coppin, Jenny Lee; then Wybert Reeve;
then the Federal Minstrels; then (we are informed)
Darrell himself.
* * * *
Here’s some news for you, anyhow. Mr.
Arthur Garner’s Fleming Norton (playing at the
Melbourne Lyceum) was, until recently, a clerk in
the Home Office, and came out of his shell (and
his department) to play Captain Flapper in
“ Billee Taylor ’’—making, to all intents and pur-
poses (stupid and trite phrase, this I) the success of
an ope a ; both the humour and music of which
are equally flimsy. Mr. Norton, is. in fact, a born
actor just as Milton Chubbuck in Bret Harte’s
immortal tale was a “borned poet.” His only
advantage over Maccabe, at present, however, is
that he is younger. We suffer from that com-
plaint too. Hence our dramatic and denomina-
tional innocence. And listen. Louise Pomeroy
recently re-appeared (she is always having fare-
wells and then re-appearing, bless her I) in
“Twelfth Night,” which she describes In the bills
as “a farcical comedy.” We fancy we detect
Arthur Elliot’s hand In this. He has, like Mrs.
Grudden—an especial talent for the compo-
sition of a three-shoeter, knowing, from even
a short matrimonial experience, just where
the notes of exclamation and capital letters
ought to go in 1 Poor old Piok don’t seem to be In
it much, though. We are sorry for this, and the
more especially as “the natural eloquence” which
Josh is heir to seems wasted on the desert heir—we
mean air—of Maorlland—a notoriously unsym-
pathetic country, We decline, however, to believe
certain vulgar tales about the show which appear
in the Canterbury Times.
♦ * * *
“La Perichole,” it has been decided in
Montreal, is an immoral play. Perhaps that is be-
cause neither Piquillo nor his companion could
exhibit a marriage certificate. Miss Melville is at
her best In this opera; but there is no Piquillo in
Australia, unless, indeed, the music be transposed
for Verdi.
* * * ♦
We learn that “Maritana” at Newcastle
was a very Gross business indeed, and that Barto-
lomeottl’s costumes were gorgeous in the
extreme. Lazarillo was performed alternate
night* by Miss Teresa Horan and a lady amateur;
and it was generally conceded that Teresa was
symmetrically a success. A great deal of
interest had been taken in that young lady,
for various reasons ; and though in some
quart rs of the coally city a controversy still
fiercely rages as to the genuineness of the picture,
there is a general disposition on the part of the
public to congratulate Miss H. upon the wonderful
symmetrical strides she has made since her last
appearance, on which occasion she enacted the
role of “ Pinafore ” Ralph. It was a matter of
comment that the young lady at that particular
period appeared to have been a little “off her
burgoo. Oh, and the Dampler-Rose-M’Whirter-
goroo consolidation came back from Grafton last
week, and opened in Parramatta on Monday. We
see that the company has been reinforced by the
addition of that talented actor Mr. J. D. Marsh.
"The Royal Pardon” was Alfred’s dart. He plays
four characters in this piece, and one of the fairy
actresses also appears in it. No wonder there was
Joy in Parramatta! And mark. Zulu Thompson
Plays a season at the Victorler—Academy of
Music, at Christmas. He reports biz. Al. and
young Thompson splendid. This Item will
doubtless cause many enquiries to be made by our
literary friends after unfurnished cottages I
* * * *
Here’s a par. about a lot of things that will
fit in anywhere. It is social, theatrical, and espe-
cially matrimonial. Well, then, an unassuming
utile ventriloquist has J ust married one of M’Lean’s
kids, who is a kid no longoi. She never was
amiss; and now, she being a “missis.” is less a miss
than ever. There’s blue-mould on this I talking
pf ventriloquists, reminds us that Fred Millis goes
to join Moulton, that lightning calculator, when
frod will, appropriately enough, give his “Wed-
ding Breakfast." Sorrow after Joy. Miss Augusta
Uargon-Piercy is, we are given to learn, ill at
. n *yJL-but when she gets better, she is going to
•tar. There is a rumour that the gifted Jordan
*ul pilot her. That smart young party now tells
us that the title of bis play is “Cheek,” and that
the purchaser is Mr. W. H. Woodfleld, the silver
wnor. Leopold says he has a trunk full of pieces
at home, including two operas—the music and the
words by himself.
He has tragedies and comedies —(he is the prince of
workers)—
cotillons and waltzes; and he also has mazur-
kas.
He has varsovianas, serenades—we wish we could
afford ’un.
un I you’ll find the germs of genius—on either side
of Jordan.
°f it 1 And If you want another rumeur. you
•oau have one. The long gagging scene lu Les
''loohee.” to which we alluded last week, has cul-
“,uated in a row; and now two persons connected
the T.R. eye one another with scorn and den-
H» n L about .the windows of their souls.
*• a* I but “ noo ma-aa-torr-r-rr I ”
There was nothing new of any consequence
Introduced to the Melbourne theatrical world last
week. The Opera House, the Bijou, and the
Royal hammered away at the pieces already
noticed, and In the Prineess’s, Miss Melville ran
through a gallery of familiar portraits. As her
season closes immediately, she set herself to leave
behind solid proofs of her versatility. She is ably
supported, and the new faces she introduced dur-
ing her season have deserved and received a liberal
encouragement. Mr. Harding promises to be a
very effective singer, and more than a passable
actor. Mr. Walsh, whose place he seems to have
usurped, was generally stiff on the boards, and
seemed to know he was being looked at.
* ♦ •
When Miss Melville vacates, the theatre is
to resound to the polished periods of Mr. George
Veltch in “ Sithors to Grind. 1 ’ Messrs. Williamson,
Garner, and Musgrove promise to show Miss Amy
Crawford, and two or three other specimens of
their taste in the matter of imported virtues, on
the occasion. Time proves everything. We are
likely done with Italian opera for a while. The
Graziosls lost in that “Ombra” business, and
Signor Verdi closed his season with a deficit of
over £500, ergo Insolvency Court. Managers of
such companies must be led to some extent on the
road to ruin by the way in which they are indis-
criminately lauded by the newspapers of the me-
tropolis. The critics seem to take their cues from
one man, and when he is pleased no company can
think for a minute about anticipating financial
embarrassment. Assuming the Press to know
anything of the taste of the community, the man-
ager must keep on expecting the whole town to
turn up until his creditors force him to turn
down.
* * *
Believing that there is latent talent and all
that sort of thing in Young Australia, a society
has been formed n to fetch it out.” Consequently,
the Australian natives gave a concert in the
Exhibition Building, Melbourne. Some of the
singers, especially Mrs. Cutter and Miss O’Brien,
don’t want fetching out. They are well known and
well liked already. Indeed, it was hard to see
where “the fetching out” came in, for almost all
the singers who did anything were “out” long
ago. However, the concert was a pleasant one.
and Haydn’s whimsical “ Farewell Symphony
was much enjoyed. The Owl Club’s oal masque
was a great success, the net profits being expected
to reach £300. Mrs. J. S. Butlers won the gold
bangle set up for the best-costumed lady. Miss
Cohn came in for a diamond bangle for the beat
sustained lady’s character. So tho bill goes. Hml
Curiously, she personated Monte Carlo—no rela-
tive of Monte Brown, we believe. Mr. Lougen-
haye, as Plppo, the shepherd, got a diamond pin
for being the best-dressed gentleman. That s his
first step, and then comes facUls , &o. A larrikin-
troubadour was regarded as the best-sustained
gentleman’s character, while “ Broke on the
Races ” (Mr. Vanburgh) took rank as the most
original character.
♦ * * *
Elias Laycock, who has—how history does
repeat itself I—recently taken a pub., is to have his
ben. on Saturday afternoon at the Royal, In con-
sideration of the fact that ho has recently broken
his ankle. The arrangements have been entrusted
to Mr. Jim Ralnford; and, of course, James has a
deal of sympathy with this delicate charitable
movement. • * * •
The apotheosis of dramatic criticism has
been reached in the States* and ly ft lady. Clara
Belle,” of theCiNCiNNATTi Enquibkk, In referring
to one of the dresses worn by Mario Prescott In
Oscar Wilde's “Vera,” says:— It left the arms
bare. The waist was loose like a tunic, and the
skirt hung straight and spare from a belt, it wa*
a kind of gown that looked as though Vera had no
underclothes on, not even a corset. During about
half of the last act she and her lover hugged each
other all over the stage, and no considerable part
of the loosely-draped figure was loft uncaressed by
the industrious and ardent male member of the
company. ‘This shall be our wedding night, he
said, and It began to look as though he really
meant It.”
* * * *
The Vivians have fluttered their little
hour, and they have vanished—if not Into space,
at least into their respective hash depots. They
played “ Nock for Neck " for five nights, and The
Marble Heart” for one night—on the occasion ol
their benefit. A certain number of people graced
the auditorium on this occasion, and the perform-
ance was ol an exhilarating nature. we regret
that space ” &c. We regret on purpose. And,
talking of talent. Miss Minnie Palmer, a youn ft
American variety actress of the Little Nell
tvne has made a big hit at the London Grand in a
rubbishing piece called “ My Sweetheart.” Miss
Minnie dances, and sings, and shows her legs, and
naonie like it. What troubles us In all this Is that
fho ‘‘evergreen ” George’s “Sunny South ap-
pears to be shelvsd again. And gasp. Dr. Lynn is
once more at Gympie, having, it seems, dug him-
self out of several graves. We have killed Dr.
Lynn ourselves once or twice, so It eases our con-
sciences lu a manner to see him once more delight-
ing with his prestidigitation (hem!) a critical and
discriminating public. Then there is a lot about
the “ Stray Leaves ” at Wagga. These nice little
people earned a nice little lesson here during their
season, and the charming Ella has now our con-
gratulations as she formerly had our sympathy.
And St. Leon—who has. It seems, “a pair of domes-
ticated camels” (Kiama Reporter)— was re-
cently showing at Wollongong. The tiger Is in
statu quo, and Gus. would like to find the man
clever enough to take It out of his vest pocket
when bus. is over. St. Leon Is to open here soon,
so as to be beforehand with Chlarini.
* * «r »
HE WOULD DO IT.
He was raking in the dollars, and what naturally
follows—
We tell you but a simple solid faofr—
When someone else was drawing, and the air he,
wasn’t sawing,
A yearning straightway came on him to act!
So, then, It must be stated, the town he decorated
with wood-outs of himself, In colours gay:
Yet, when’t was time to roll up, there hardly earns
a soul up,
The public kept so carefully away.
And then he was a rater at the Innocent the-a-tre,
And a whole lot of his company he sack’d;
To have told him the true reason weuld have been
far worse than treason,
But it’s this- that no one wants to see him act.
* d fr *
The Gaiety, on Saturday, is to be the scene
of something festive. Mr. B. C. Asplnall, the son
of the late famous Q.C., is to have a “ben..” and
the Helen Vivian Dramatic Company (more Joy 111)
are to play “The Woman (poor thing!) of the
People ’’ for one night only. We are glad of this—
not that (this la bound to be tautological) they are
only going to play “The Woman” for one night
only, but that Mr. Asplnall Is going to have a
benefit. We knew Mr. Asplnall In days gone by,
and so are glad to hear that he’s to nave a ben.,
which will probably refresh him. He Is agent—or
treasurer, we forget which—for “Mrs. Dr. Potts,”
and all tho Pottses are to be present on the
occasion. Should tho Pottses think of slinging
bouquets, it would not be Inappropriate for those
Pottses to throw pans-ies. Do you see it ?
Georgle Smithson opened at Lithgow yes-
treen. The fascinating: G. is going to make a
short tour this trip, however, as Mr. Holloway is
to Join Chlarinl.when ho comes, and then Georgle
would like to play in Sydney—possibly so that she
and the old man can continue to enjoj nice little
tripe suppers together after the show. Wo like
tripe suppers ourselves. Oh, and Howard and
Simmons have been playing “ Crime ” at the
“ Vlotorleral;” and i ce quon (&c., &c.) Alioe
Johns is a big success in it, and sings a song called
“ Forget.’’.Next week (should we 11 ve) we snail tell
our readers all about it, that is, if several things
don’t happen. If an additional attraction be
wanted to draw the people, it is only sufficient for
us to say that Sam Howard is in the oast to ensure
crowded houses for ever.
* * * #
Next week, by the way, Mrs. Dr. P. lec-
tures again—at the Gaiety, this time. We shall, in
a.l probability, have something more to say, ere
long, in re Potts’s points.
* * * *
The mashers are once more
Extremely to the fore.
They said “Les Cloches” was “stuff,’
So there was no shirt-cuff,
No “oollah”—but, you bet~
It was there at “ Olivette.’’
There were gloves, and skin-tight “breeks,”
Glasses flxeo upon Henrlques.
In his box there was disposed
“ Mussy,” pallid but composed;
And “ whiskers ” by the yard,
Limp with loving Llddl-ord.
[ Asset , sacri nom I Asset /—Ed. B.]
•
The metre of the foregoing is, possibly,
irregular. You must, however, hold the Aus-
tralian Gaslight Company responsible for this.
When we took a three-roomer with a tin can
with a clock in it outside, we thought elysium
was in store for us; but when the miscreant
came round, and measured us up ninety square
miles of gas, we gave up our billets in the
Corporation, and took to colonial. Let’s see.
Where are we? Oh—“Olivette.” Right I We
may remark that, prior to seeing “Olivette," we j
saw Musgrove, who manages the opera and panto-
mime department of the TJcamrio tricmvihat*.
The small oaps. put in here are inserted with a
stern anasignlfloant purpose. [very wild.—Kd,B.]
Mussy authorises us to say that Wallace leaves
after “Olivette,” and thatThe Mascotte,” with
Maggie Moore and Harwood, Is to be played on
Saturday. This Is mere detail. But the reader
will, doubtless, be enthralled to learn that Mr. M.
wears violet silk socks with gold clocks, and that
he hires a man at £8 a week to wake him up every
morning, and acquaint him with the form of Go-
vernment under which he lives. This individual
is also, It must be added, George’s valet-de-pied.
But in the mystic mist (new this) when the silver
dawn is shedding its gauzy pallor over the city,
the valet creeps forth and bribes two large men
with beer to help him. It takes either three
ordinary men or three giants to clean Musgrove’s
seven-leagures.
• • •
By very far the best of the revivals is
“Olivette. We knew it was a success the
moment we climbed up into the theatre, from the
fact of the Intrepid Moss wearing a flower In his
ooat. If “ The Masootte ” (this an after thought)
be the go they anticipated for it, we shall expect to
see the Superlative Suter (the other ushah) wear a
snail in his shoe. The piece then (to come to the
piece at last) [thank Heaven!] is by far and away
the best of the revivals, so far The staging, when
It Is taken into oonsideration that the piece is put
on only for “ one consecutive week,” tssurprlsing.
The costumes, too, look as fresh as of yore; and
the orchestra, under the Happy Harrison (this
comes of our attending the “Little Glory Shop ”
too often) played in a manner which calls for more
encomiastic lines than we have ever room for.
The drum moderated his transports; and the man
with the trombone coughed, with a mlldnessjhat
was discriminative, into his instrument. Bass
Hodge, with a shirt-front that showed a luxurious
exhibition of scientific mangling, operated with
much melody on the clarionet; and the man who
blew Into the French horn was a horn-ament to
the hor—we mean orchestra.
• • •
Everybody knows all about the scenery of
“Olivette,” aboutthe dresses, and about the scenic
effects; but everybody does not know about tho
acting, or the singing, Inasmuch as the cast Is, with
a few exceptions, a new one. The rSlt— a French
r6lc (is this new ?)—is allotted to Miss Fanny Lld-
diard. Now, Miss Fanny Liddlard Is an enchanting
creature (we are told this), but she can’t sing so
well as Patti, or—let’s see I who’s next to Adelina f
—well, say, Alice Rees. Miss Liddlard has, for
some Inexplicable reason, been Jumped into star
Jiarts; and we should say that the fact of her play-
ng characters which are, at present, hopelessly
beyond her, would make Fanny uncomfortable. It
makes us uncomfortable, anyhow. In a word,
Miss Liddlard requires to eat a lot more beef, or to
practise a lot more notes, before she can compass
a prima donna rile even In opera boufle. Nellie
Stewart, on the other band, as the Countess de
Roussillon, was a groat success; though we may,
with humility, suggest the propiiety of the man-
agement investing In a new pair of trotter-cases,
the ones on view being of an unattractive charac-
ter. Both Una Brooke and Maggie Stewart looked
excessively charming as Santerre and Veloutlne
respectively. “Excessively charming" we bor-
row from the “Prlntz of Wales.’’ Mias
Grace Henriques, bearing a caudle In a
paper lantern, was also a nice figure: but,
by holding her light at an angle of forty-five
degrees, she created some confusion by dropping
some of Its spermaceti down the baok of tho
member of tho watch next to her. In fact, this
spermaceti may have been said to cause a whale.
(Registered.)
• • •
The men were good, especially Kelly, who
we may facetiously say, seems to histrionically
last a very Leon time. And, by tho way, all the
world doesn't know that Mr. Kelly is a surgeon—
a duly-qualified surgeon—by profession. But It’s
a fact. Vernon got a triple encore for “Bob up
Serenely,” and Mr. Wallace was outrageously far-
cical as Cocquelloot (wo wonder how Alfred would
pronounce this!). Mr. W. H. Woodfleld was a big
go os Valentins—as be will call it, when it should
be “ Varlongtang ’’—but Mr. Grundy mads but a
feeble Marveiol. The mise-enscine was some-
thing splendid, the electric light being used iu tho
ball-room. The oorypluSos are symmetrical, and
the choruses excellently rendered. It strikes u*
that “Olivette ’ could easily go anothe- week.
We don’t know, however, how It strikes ths
management.
» • • •
The Gifted Glover, whose ad. sparkles (as
ho himself sparkles) in another column, opens in
Melbourne on the 8tb. He plays ths star part in
his own drama. “The Wanderer,” for six nights;
and It Is possible that Mr. G. will appear alter
Christmas in a round of original impersonations.
Everybody who was sober while Bandmann was
here will remember Mr. Q., who immortalised
himself us Buretrong In "The Woman of the
People,” and those who saw him do Miles, In tho
“ Colleen Bawn,” will know what be Is made of.
Mr. Glover, personally, is of limited stature-
standing 7ft. 61u. iu his bulmorats. Everything
about Mr. Glover Is of the same llllputlan size. It
is said of him that—being of a philanthropies!
temperament, he allows several poor people
nightly to sleep in his locket.
* * * *
Let us be serious for once. You know,
dear readers, that as a general thing we like to
deal lightly and laughingly with all suhieots-to
write In sunbeams, as it were. But when the
voice of duty calls we are equally on hand at a
cat-christening or a ferreWuneral. And—though
of course, no comparison—that is. we wish to Im-
press you that we do not approach the matter in a
spirit of levity—we went to hear Mr. Monoure
Conway, on Monday night last. The subject of
his lecture was “Shakespeare.” Mr. Conway has
evidently made a thorough study of the life and
works of the great bard. And everything con-
cerning Shakespeare being of Importance, it will
be learnt with interest that Mrs. Shakespeare was
as skilful in the use of tho broom-handle and assure
a shot witn a soup-plate as most ladies before or
since her time. It was on affecting, although
amusing, picture that Mr. Oonway drew of tne
great master dodging crockery while he penned
is divine tragedies, and writing the Immortal
verse that was to be the glory of his own land and
the delight of the world while butter-dishes and
sauce-boats rained upon his bald and noble
brow. Mr. Conway deserves the thanks of all
persons having any pretence to culture. He has
thrown a new light on the Inner life of him
who was “ not one but all mankind's epitome.”
Not alone on an icy pinnacle of Intellect like a god
lived this Shakespeare. He was a man like other
men, and sticking-plaster looked muoh the same
on his nose as on the nose of the butcher over the
way who supplied the family with the beef tho
Swan of Avon loaded up with eight or nine times
a day. Many thanks to Mr. Moncure Conway for
thus humanising the divine Williams. Many thanks
to Mr. Smythe for bringing us Mr. Moncure Con-
way.
* * *
“Diplomacy.” Well? As we said: one of
the best things that has been done for a good while
in the comedy line in Sydney. We don’t think wo
can say any more. We are, Indeed, sure we can’t.
And good “biz.” This Is as It should be. The
acting, so far as the subordinates—and. Indeed,
some of the principals (not so many) are concerned
—might be better; but the play— well, there!—“the
play's the thing." If not “to catch the conscience
of a king,” at least to oatch the public. Maggie
Knight (for whom—but this Is not for publication
—we have long entertained a secret passion) shows,
in her interpretation of Dora, that she Is un
actress.
* * * *
Mr. B. N. Jones had a benefit at the
Royal on Saturday afternoon, but wo are sorry
to say that not many people went. Those
that did go bled thither with the expecta-
tion of seeing Cunard shot by the American
sbootist, Colonel Ike Austin. We guess the
“Colonel” will fetch these parts with his rifle.
Cunard wnlle away bought half China. Ur. Jones
made a charming little speech at the end of iftie en-
tertainment, and especially thanked Wybert Reeve
and the gasmea for their services.
OUR TRAMWAYS: WHAT THEY WILL COMB TO.


BRIEF MENTION.
The monk that shook the world must have
been a thundering big thief.
Mah Poo, before being strung up, wrote:
Me quite ready to die; welly happy.” But then
Mah Poo had never been a produce-reporter on an
evening paper.
This is the sort of a thing you hear in a
certain town out West. Jack: “ I say, Bob, I sup-
pose you’ll be at poor Tom’s funeral?” Bob:
“ Why, Tom’s surely not dead!” Jack: “ No; but
he’s sick and went to the hospital this morning.”
The other day, a Queensland public school
teacher, accused of drunkenness—It was on the
back blocks—handed In to the Education Depart-
ment a certificate from the local publican, running
thus:—“ This Is to certify that I have never seen
Mr. Cane Intoxicated.”
A Queensland paper tells an exciting story
of a ; kangaroo that raced a train on the Northern
railway. This Is curious, as showing the deteriora-
tion of the fauna up North. Now, In New South
Wales no kangaroo would ever think of racing a
train—unless he chanced to be lame.
“ Quibus,” in his *■ Golden Crown and
Gilt” in the Evening News, Introduces us to a
Sydney character who refuses a dowry of £10,000
with his bride! We are told that this is a story
“trembling on the verge of truth.” Which
goes to show that the “verge of truth ” has some
awfully condemned lies hanging over It.
All the country incumbents now are call-
ing themselves vicars. The man who runs the
Morgunyah church, which just holds ten worship-
pers, the sexton, and three goats, is a vicar too;
and so’s the Holy Joey who presides over the
Anglican Church at Jumbuck Flat—a tin edifice,
which bristles all over with nails, like a rusty por-
cupine. The rev. gentleman who was honourably
acquitted here the other day was a vicar; and so
s the enlightened apostle who holds forth to the
Cow Creekites three times a quarter. In a slab
humpy. These gentlemen have no more right to
call themselves vicars than they have to call them-
selves angels; but they do so on the same principle
that induced Mr. Squeers to christen his academy
of learning “ Dothebeys Hall “ because there
was no Act of Parliament to prevent him,” Con-
sidering, though, that “ vicar” rhymes to “ bicker,”
the self-styled appellation of these worthies affords
the local satirists an opportunity which they would
not otherwise, perhaps, have possessed. Bah!
we’re just getting a bit tired of these sleek ortho-
dox self-dubbed gentlemen I We rather admired
Noah; for, though a bit prosy, there was a spice of
ingenuity about him that was pleasing. His dove
experiment was very pretty, for instance, But
the nearest all these Vicars of Bray can get to
dove is duff. Duff, hot and holy on the Saw-
barth. “Brother Stlgglns will now proceed to
hump round the plate. Terrors hang to three-
p’nn ies -hell to halfpence.”
The Liverpool Herald—("J.Q.,” you
giddy old boy, we saw your name amongst the
overlanders 1)—has an article on the Victorian
Derby, and thus airily introduces Its subject
“Centuries have lapsed Into the abyss of time;
Civilisation holds up its head as the Instructress of
nations; but withal comes Fraud with its sombre
crape-covered countenance, and defies the ad-
vancing good.” This quality of journalism has
the effect of making us yearn for more I Hold on
till the bailiff’s goat steps In and devours the
editor’s diner d la Russe, not even leaving a cake
of cold cabbage lor insertion. Then we may ex-
pect something in the “’Ercles vein” with a
vengeance 1 And this reminds us that the Liver-
pudlians are exceedingly proud of their paper.
Sometimes their admiration takes the form of
language: sometimes of potatoes. A man came
in to insert an ad. the other day, and after ham-
mering for several hours upon the ooffln-lld on
trestles at last produced a gentleman protecting his
Intellectual brow with a meat cover. “ Are you the
editor?’ ’said the visitor. “ No—he’s—he’s dead, ’ ’
“then, I—” “Here—put down that turnip; remon-
strance-yes a blow—never I” “ But, sir, my
potatoes—.” “WorsestilJI Begone I” And keep-
ing his h carefully shielded with the dish-
cover the or retired backwards to his sanctum t
and was soon tremblingly engaged in an article on
“The Personal and Social Responsibilities of a
Leader of the People.”
We learn from Newcastle that one Mr.
James “has been committed for pouring boiling
water on his wife’s head,” and, furthermore, with
“beating her about the head with a loaded
revolver, and pushing the muzzle of the same
into her mouth, and threatening to shoot her.”
Immediately previous to his arrest, James (or
Happy James is it ?) had been singing hymns wth
the Salvation Army of which he was a “ prominent
member.” We don’t know, of course, how Mr.
James (whose wife’s face is “cut and scalded”)
will come out of this little trouble, but It seems to
be the fate of the Harmy that one or more of its
“ prominent members ” should be continually In
Umbo. But then the righteous were ever perse-
cuted! Look how Elijah, that “ jolly old man,”
was chaffed by the kids of the period before he
“ went up to heaven in a fiery van.” How did
they bombard him with pea-nuts, and holloa—
“ Go up, thou bald-head!” John the Baptist, too,
who walked through the wildei ness continually,
was equally badly treated. He, It will bo remem-
bered, lost his head early In life, his caput being
the only part of him, so to speak, that was ever
borne upon a charger. In Melbourne, Mr.
Knowles and another member of the Harmy are
under a temporary cloud, and “Happy Jack” is
fast attaining fame in Darlinghurst—stone-cut-
ting. Such is the confidence in the integrity of
the Salvationists In Paddington, the inhabitants
have, since the invasion of their precincts by these
holy howlers, taken to hanging out their milk-
jugs with dog-chains, and the first bang of a tam-
bourine is the signal for an almost universal
chicken-muster.
In the N.S.W. Assembly, the other even-
ing, the Minister for Justice, in answer to Mr. A.
G. Taylor, stated that it is a fact that a female
prisoner in Darlinghurst (who has been incar-
cerated since April, 1881, mind you) is in a condi-
tion that is considered interesting, and that the
Romeo of the hour is the son of an official in the
gaol. There Is something in this little Incident
which reminds us of old times—of the days when
an official deputed to escort a pretty female pri-
soner from Darlinghurst to the factory at Parra-
matta took three weeks over the journey, and
didn’t turn up even then. Yes, it does recall to us
that happy period In the history of Sydney when
convicts used to break out of the gaol, commit
burglaries in Woolloomooloo, and duly report
themselves at the prison-muster next morning;
when the principal gaoler’s wife kept a store in
the prison, and sold to the conlinees all sorts of
articles, from Bibles to rum—especially rum. At
that time, the prisoners used to occupy a great
deal of their days and nights in making cabbage-
tree hats, which they sold “ on their own hook ” to
people outside the prison. The governor used to
get commission as a set-off against his kindness in
winking at these little transactions; and even the
viaiting justice of the day (vide the report of the
Commission on Darlinghurst Gaol), a gentleman
with whose name we are all very well acquainted
indeed, wasn’t above having his palms greased.
Oh, and we see that the male warder who used to
enter the cells of the female prisoners at Tamworth
was “ allowed to resign whlch'phrase reads very
funnily in view of the statement a little further
on that “ such resignation was made compulsory.”
If things go on like this very much longer, we
■hall be compelled to believe that innocent girls
(how’s this for pathos ?) aren’t very much safer in
gaol than at a down-the-harbour picnic.
The Rev. Joseph White believe* in Wesley.
T# look at him you wouldn’t think it. As he
strides along the teaselated pavements of historic
Richmond (V.), you would fancy that his capacity
for belief was filled with truffles, egg-flip, and
di- : on pills. But he believes In Wesley. And
one oi the consequences of his believing In him is
that he yearns to see a smile of happiness man-
tling the brows of the people about him. That
yearning is a leading feature of Wesleyanism.
Wherever Wesleyans are found In numbers, it is
there. Therefore Wesleyan young men like to
bring Wesleyan young women to picnics, down by
the salt sea shore, whore the wind moans so musi-
cally among the hollow rooks, and the pious sea-
gull skims the billows, and rising aloft, points with
its shining plumage to the eternal home of the
ransomed. The smll e of happiness always mantles
at its best In such places. We have been Wes-
leyans ourselves a few times, and can speak from
experience. But we were fond of variety, and
that’s where we differed with the Reverend .1 oseph.
We thought we could, ones in a while, let the
smile mantle on the racecourse. But Joseph says:
“No; true Wesleyans will never be found
there. The smile there is only as a sunbeam
playing on a tomb. The votaries of plea-
sure are sad and sick at heart.” Now, we
maintain we have the pull over his re-
verence on this subject. We were through the
mill and he wasn’t. There’s a place at the back of
the Hill, with a little fountain and a lot of rustic
seats set upright in the long waving grass, and
when the young man gets his young woman on
the corner of one of those seats, with the fountain
springing before him and the perfume-laden air
tickling his nostrils, he is as happy as ever he was
down on the salt sea shore, with the moaning wind
about him and the pious sea-gull pointing the
way. And what is more, we believe that Wesley
is just the man who would have agreed with us.
That is, once in a while, for variety sake. But the
reverend Joseph clings to the moaning winds and
the pious sea-gull. As we think something of him
we would request him to try our way, ajid are
willing to wager (as the times are horsey) a cake
of tintag against a box of his dandelions that if he
tries it over he will want to be going there every
time.
The police are becoming thoroughly de-
moralised. We stood up for them in the face of
all opposition, but now that they have become
“ungallant,” we throw up the brief. At the
Temora Police Court, a Mrs. Solomon—known as
the Magnetic lady—was lined 10s. and costs for
assaulting Senior-constable Richard Henry Oliver.
The assault was committed at an entertainment
during the Mudgee show week. In consisted in
the plaintiff’s being touched on the ear with a bit
of wire, and having his system disarranged by an
electric shock. The lady then shook hands with
him and touched him on the nose, face, eyebrows*
and neck. Every touch filled his eyes with tears
His nose was rendered permanently unser-
viceable, and will probably fall back Into the
state of chronic neglect to which it was accus-
tomed in days gone by. The senior-constable was
convulsed with rage, and the audience with
laughter. It is not every day that people are lucky
enough to secure seats at an entertainment where
the pUce de resistance consists of a staid peace
officer struggling against the blandishments of a
galvanic battery with a woman behind it. But a
mixed audience, just like a mixed mob, seldom
sympathise with the police. Even a well-dressed
middle-class boy, whose sympathies might be sup-
posed to be on the side of “law and order,” derives
the supremest enjoyment from seeing the respect-
able police officer in a pantomime unceremoniously
trundled off the stage in a wheel-barrow. Between
our experience and Constable Oliver’s there are
some points of resemblance, but more of differ-
ence. Magnetic ladies we have met by the score,
and some of their shocks are really pleasant, but
[Pined 10s. and costs—next case.— Ed. B.]
We have received intimation that it is the
intention of certain members of the literary,
musical, and artistic professions to found a new
club in Sydney, which Is to be conducted on
primitive principles, and to be known as “The
Corkscrew Club.” The following are some ex-
tracts from the draft prospectus “ All subscrip-
tions and entrance fees of any member belonging
to the Uterary profession are Invariably payable
in advance; and no man of letters will be eligible
who has ever used in any newspaper, magazine, or
volume the expressions ‘satisfactory rendition,’
‘coign of vantage,’ or ‘the good things having
been disposed of.’ Any member detected carry-
ing a baby across the Domain will be requested by
the committee to resign; and any member borrow-
ing the waiter's coat more than twice a week
during the opera season will render himself liable
to a reprimand by the President. . . . No
herrings will be permitted to be toasted after 10
a.m., and it will be regarded as a point of honour
amongst members to play light on the club cheese.
All refreshments are to be paid for on delivery,
and the committee will enquire into the conduct
of any member discovered * whispering the
waiter.’ . . . No author will be allowed, under
any circumstances, to read out or quote from his
own works, and musicians performing on wind in-
struments will not be permitted to blow into them
within a radius of four miles of the Corkscrew Club.
At the Club ordinaries, members will be expected
to commence at a given signal—the firing of a
pistol, or the belabouring of a gong; and any
member shrieking for beef before his turn will bo
requested politely to worry his slxpennorth In the
coal-hole... Each member will be expected to bring
with him his knife,fork, and spoon; and It will be
considered inadvisable for a member to keep the
blacking-brushes more than ten minutes.” The
premises have, we understand, not yet been de-
cided upon; but, for obvious reasons, a house
having as few stairs as possible will be ehosen
It will also be regarded as a desideratum If an out-
building can be obtained In addition to the main
premises; as then the sound of members mending
their shoes with sardine-tins will not disturb
others who may be deep in the study of the Pro-
testant Standard. Further particulars will be
given as soon as they come to hand; and, In the
meantime, gentlemen possessing the necessary
qualities—social, artistic, literary, or musical—for
membership are Invited to send in (upon a clean
slip) their names, without delay, to Garden Honey,
who has appointed himself, unanimously, hon.
secretary.
It is only the pure of heart that should
gaze on this paragraph. Before writing it, we
washed our hands, spent an hour in prayer, and
solemnly pledged ourselves to abstain from fusel-
oil until after Annexation. It was only by means of
this discipline we came to be worthy to chronicle
the fact that there is a saint in Fitzroy. Geo-
graphically, it may be known that Fitzroy Is a
suburb to the north of Melbourne ; and, socially,
it is recognised as the hive of flourishing trades-
men, the emporium of fish and vegetables, and
the place of residence of the minor aristocrats
whose business lies in town, and who cannot go a
cent over ten shillings for the princely accommo-
dation of a furnished flat. But it Is not the geo-
graphical or social qualities of Fitzroy that now
inspire us. We are a-flame with the gorgeously
more glorious attribute of its sanctity. Often had
we dreamed with Tennyson that there was a bond
of union between the seen and the unseen, and
that we rose higher and higher, circle over circle,
tier over tier, in a mystic spiral, and that “the
whole round earth bound by gold chains ” came to
“ a top ” at the foot of the great white Throne,
but our dream was always vague and hazy, until
we wont into the Fitzr oy police court the other
day. Then we saw no longer as through a glass
darkly, for behold, the whole earth “ bound with
golden chains,” rose pyramid-like, spiral-like,
higher and higher, circle over circle, tier over tier,
until, at the foot of the great white Throne, it
came to a two-by-three flat “top,” and on the top
sat Tummus Parsons, J.P. We are not sure as to
whether his front name is “Tummus.” We were
inspired, and, according to Bishop Moorhouse, It is
preposterous to require inspired people to he
exact in matters of detail. With Moses and the
other ins pi ted writers, we, therefore, say “ To the
devil with details!” But what we saw on the two-
by-three flat top was this Parsons, with a Hat
pasteboard forehead, and two shifting unsteady
No. 1.
A philosopher brought home a goose, which he proposed
fattening for his Christmas dinner.
“ You have a greater prize in me than you supposed, the
foose casually remarked, after she had been securely
astened by the hind leg to a stake in the back garden. “ I
am the sort of goose you have read about, who can lay a
golden egg. I will undertake to lay you one for your
hristmas present. All I require is rather low diet.”
No. 2.
The poilosopher, who was fond of trying scientific ex- |
periments, took the goose at her word, Resolving to give
him a very low diet indeed, he ordered her meals to be
sent in from a ‘‘first-class” Sydney restaurant, and the
cunning goose soon had the satisfaction of seeing her-
self grow more emaciated day by day.
THE PHILOSOPHER AND THE GOOSE -
A FABLE.
No. 3.
At last Christmas time came, and the philosopher
demanded of the goose (now reduced to a mere skeleton)
the f ulfllment of her promise.
“ Alas! ” replied the goose,“ we have failed. I don’t
think this has been a good season for golden eggs, but if
you like we will try the experiment again next year.”
'* Considered,” thought the philosopher, as he sat down
to a Christmas dinner of cold mutton, considered in
the light of an experiment, it certainly was a novel one!”


eyes, peering perkily upwards; and what we heard
when the gash in the front of his face opened was,
“We must put down Sunday traffic: I would not
purchase an orange on that day to save my life.”
And what we saw and what we heard set the
waters of our soul in commotion, and the spirit
that brooded there suggested that we should lay
hold of Tummus’s knees, and sing loudly through
the halls of our being that if we held on to
Tummusonto* and Fltzroy held us, and Melbourne
on to Fltzroy, and the rest of Australia to Mel-
bourne, then the whole continent, bound up with
the spiritual golden chains, would be lifted up, up,
and would be carried In the fiery chariot to “ the
bowery hollows crowned with the summer sea” of
unspeakable beatitude I O Tummus I
Luther was a Shaker. He shook the
world.
Billy Emerson, the minstrel, is said to
have received an offer from Frohman, of £350 a
week for an entire season.
The human pulse has a rather wide range,
but the general average may beput about as fol-
lows: At birth, 140; at 3 years, 100; at from 16 to
19 years, 80; at manhood, 75; old age, 60 There
are, however, great variations consistent with
health. Napoleon’s pulse is said to have been only
44 In the minute. A case is also related of a
healthy man of 87 whose pulse was seldom over 30
during the last two years of his life and sometimes
not more than 36. Another man of 87 years of age
enjoyed good health and spirits with a pulse of 39,
and there is also on record the curious instance of
a man whose pulse in health was never more than
45, and to be consistent in his inconsistency, when
hp had fever, his pulse fell to 40, instead or rising,
as is usual. It is, by the way, an interesting and
curious fact that tha pulse the most eloquent
of Australians never beats faster than 88,
THE NEWSLETTER.
sheep was killed on a station near
Albury lately. A gold ring was found in its
throat. We simply state this fact as a suggestion
to the College of Heralds for a new quartering in
the shields of some of our aristocratic visitors
who have married out here lately.
Many of Archie’s backers will, doubtless,
sympathise with a labourer who was fined £3 for
cruelty to his horse, at Perth (W. A.). James M‘Dou-
gall (that was the labourer’s name) grew exasper-
atod at his horse not going as fast as he wished, and
set fire to its tail. The horse went much faster—
and died.
A “ prohibited ” party out West, the other
day, who was caught in a pub. by a constable in
flagrante delicto, swore that he only “ took up a
glass just to see what was In it.” The court would
not swallow this, and the sympathetic landlady
was ordered to pay a fine of £10. And here is
where the phenomenal part of the business comes
in. The prohibited party at once tendered the fine
him. elf I Bather a big price to pay for “a look at
a glass.”
The scare as to the immorality of pupils in
public schools having somewhat subsided a Vic-
torian “father” has directed attention to the
evils resulting from sending young female teachers
into bush schools, w here decent boarding accom-
modation is frequently not available, ana where
thee are too frequently decoyed to ruin. There is
something In this; for, as a matter of fact, many
mere girls In N.S.W. and Victoria are despatched
to bush schools, where they have to put up with
associations and surroundingr too often of a very
questionable character. Strangely enough, it is
the rule to draft these inexperienced damsels to
the back districts, while tbe male teachers are kept
in the towns.
Last Saturday, Margaret Nolan, aged 10,
daughter of a fanner, sent with butter to Pan-
mure, a township 10 miles from Warrnambool
iVlo.), was last seen as she was returning home,
walking beside a man riding on horseback. At 4
a.m., on Sunday, her dead body was found among
some ferns near the township, on its back, arms
extended, clothes torn, neck with a deep gash in it,
left hand still grasping some ferns, 'i he horseman
seen with her an elderly farmer, father of 14 grown-
up children, was arrested. On his shirt cuff there
was a spot of blood; moreover, a knife he was seen
to have in his possession when he was at an hotel
shortly before the crime was committed, has dis-
appeared He was not intoxicated when he left
the township.
H.M.C.S. Wolverene was all at sea on
Saturday. Notwithstanding the heavy sea which
made her duck uncomfortably, the musketry drill
under Lieutenant Drake was done fairly well.
Cutlass drill was out of the question in the fore-
noon, though after dinner it was got through.
The shell practice was fairly well done. One shell
burst a few feet in front of the target, the others,
though fired pretty straight, struck just behind it.
The gallant gunners, through inexperience, didn't
do so w ell with the Gatlings, but with the Martini-
Henry they made some excellent shooting. Gar-
ranny’8 representative during the trip must
surely have been talked to, since (despite what is
known of the ancient craft by both the Admiralty
authorities and competent judges here) he has the
hardihood to say;—“ Well found in every respect,
thoroughly equipped with modern armament,
with the single exception of gun carri i gts a seri-
ous exception one would think), with machinery
in almost as good condition as on tbe day of her
trial trip, with her bull ot sound timbers, the
Wolverene is said to be about as perfect a speci-
men of a training ship as could be found in tbe
old country. As a sea-going vessel she is as steady
® 8 * D tf afloat, and, moreover, combines the
qualities of a shin under canvas, with all the ad-
vantages of a modern man-of-war.” We think the
skipper’s ginger-beer must have been extra strong.
By the bye, the said skipper advertises for a boat-
swain, with the rather superflous observation, "a
naval man preferred.” 1
On the 10th proximo, A. G. Taylor intend*
to move in the Assembly:—“That this House con.
curs in the following proposals in amendment of
our prison policy.—1. That sentences of hard
labour for two years and upwards should carry
with them a proportionate period for model treat*
ment in Berrima Gaol, that is, one month in
Berrima Gaol to every year of penal servitude. 3.
That the period of servitude in Berrima Gaol
should be divided into two equal terms, the first to
be served in commencement of the sentence of
the Court, and the second in its completion. 3.
That, to avert miscarriages of jv stice, every con-
victed prisoner should be entitled to a new trial,
or further Inquiry on his convincing the Minister
of Justice of the propriety of either such step. 4.
That, with this view, there should be no impedi-
ment whatever on the part of the officials to any
convicted prisoner communicating by letter with
the Minister of Justice or Comptroller-General. 5
That protracted imprisonment is fallacious as an
agency of reform, and delusive as a deterrent
Inasmuch as It is an unnatural abrogation of a
fellow creature’s freedom, and not only hardens
the victim’s hcait, but oftentimes converts him
mto a brutalised maniac. 0. That Imprisonment
should be brief and speedy, without Indulgences
or other temptations to prisoners to prolong their
stay. 7. That the lash should only be awarded to
refractory convicts after ample trial in open court
before the nearest bench of magistrates. 8. That
a reduction of one-fourth of the sentence for
good behaviour should be made on all sentences
exceeding four months. 9. That in cases of
felony, or grave misdemeanour, but one prisoner
should be coi fired in each cell.” Let’s take these
proposals seriatim. No. 1, right if the “model
treatment” is made the end of the term, so that
the discharged prisoner leaves gaol with the re-
collection of it hot 1’ the mouth. No. 3, delete, vide
remaik on No. 1. Nos. 3 and 4, right. No.5,spollt
by the unwholesome addition of such a melo-
dramatic phrase as "unnatural abrogation of a
fellow creature’s freedom;” if a fellow creature
commits a heinous crime his freedom wants abro-
gating. No. 6, straight down to the ground. No.
7, yes. No. 8, no. No. 9, quite so.
Before His Most Sacred V Majesty.
A prosecution for Sabbath-breaking, v under the Act of Charles //.


Mick Simmon Can’t B Beat—Very few
retail business men in any line in Sydney have
succeeded to the extent that Mick Simmons, the
Can’t B Beat man, has succeeded. The Can’t B
Beat Tobaoce, on which Mick Simmons has made
his name, is manufactured in America to his special
order, and imported here direct. The result Is a
tobacco which really Can’t B Beat. Mick Simmons
maintains that he does the largest retail tobacco
business in all Australia.*
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“ Carcoar Neither Mr. Hopkins nor Mr
Maoleod is responsible for any sketch to which
his Initials are not attached “Scaramouch”
We don’t remember publishing your sketch. We
certainly didn’t print anything like four columns
of it. Please refer us to date on which it appeared
— “ George Cripps The idea that a snake never
dies before sunset is, of course, absurd.. “ B.C.A.”
We shall be glad to see you. Send address, with-
out which we cannot publish your paragraph
“Chuquisaca”: We’re always glad to hear from
anyone, but only pay for good original matter ...
“Tambo”: Right —“ B.V.C.” (Melbourne): lsn’1
what you send merely an advertisement in dis-
guise? — “E.J.”: We will keep, for a while, your
verses on “ Colonial Beer.” In some offices
“colonial beer” would not be kept, but, on the
contrary, used at once—“A Visitor”: Scarcely
suitable— “Omadhaun”: Good sketchy style
but weak in plot and point—“Nugget”: Non-
sense “Coney”: Your hymn unsuitable
“ Kiangi ”: .Thanks—W.B.J.”: Your “ splendic
tenor,” in our opinion, isn’t even a “fiver.”
“Dead Shot”; Yes, quite possible. We have often
watched a cannon-ball travelling — “ Sec. Orange
Jockey Club”: We don’t insert race-programmes
except, as advertisements “A.G.”: We sympa-
thise with you, but are extremely sorry that in
this colony we dare not publish your statement
You had better write it to a Victorian 01
an English paper “ Laram ”: We don’t
deal with such affairs at second-hand. Besides,
we notice you don’t send your name
“S.A.D.” : Many thanks, but it’s too straight for
this colony, altogether. .. “ George L ” (Bombala)
Your communication, entitled “ Private and
Apologetic,” impresses us with the idea that you
could do much better. By this, we mean turning
the grindstone for a Chinaman “J.K.W.”
(Clunes): We didn’t say so. We believe that
Gladys Lady Lonsdale is a sister of Lord Pem-
broke, who was out here on a yachting cruise
some years ago, and was credited with part author-
ship of that clever and sketchy book, “ South Sea
Bunbles, by the Earl and the Doctor.” However,
it’s no secret that the author was the Doctor
and not the Earl “J.W.A.”: No, thanks—
“ J. W. Stettin": We haven’t space to reprint ah
Mr. James Black says about the proper pronuncia-
tion of “ Yolande.” nor do we think it worth while
to trot out your opinion. It’s quite enough for
us that Mr. Swinburne has Indicated the correct
accentuation of the word in the “Dedication” to
his volume of 1865 :—
“ O, daughters of dreams and of stories
That life is not wearied of yet:
Faustine, Fragoletta, Dolores,
Jelise and Yolande and Juliette—
Shall I find you not still ? shall I miss you
When sleep that is true, or that seems,
Comes back to me hopeless to kiss you,
O, daughters of dreams ? ”
“ Rough Hands ”: Your lines are touching. You
say:—"This is my first attempt at poetry, if you
think, with some pruning, it can be made present-
able, you are welcome to it. I am the poor chap
referred to, and I am sending Nel a copy.” It
seems, then, “ Rough Hands, that you are in a
bad way. You begin—as if your Ma were tickling
you, thus—
“Leave me alone, dear mother, for I am ill, to-
day;”
and then it transpires that “ Nel ” is to be sent off
to school. Indignant at this outrage, you passion-
ately sing—
As if the dear girl, she (sic.)
Hadn’t enough of education for her and me. 1
What increases the trouble is that you imagine
they are “ going to sell your Nel for gold,” which
calls forth the pathetic remark—
“ Since father died, you know I’ve always earned
enough for two;
In fact, have put a few pounds by, just for the
sunny day ...”
We think, though, you are indiscreet, for family
reasons, in writing—
“ Our overseer he hinted about your mother being
a scold.”
Well, now. Rough Hands, though your Nel, as you
call her, may have education enough for you, let
her go away to school as proposed for fifteen or
twenty years, until such a time as the world may
consider (for you, are not, of course, an impartial
judge) the lady qualified to equally shine in a pie-
shop or adorn a pea-nut stand. And, take our
advice. If you have not already s nt her a copy
of your verses, don’t do so. Their richness might
disagree with her. You may be a gentle creature;
but yours is certainly Rough Hands’ poetry.
After all, what do we know or care about your
Nel. For all we know she may have freckles like
cheese-plates, a figure like a top boot, and her
ball-shoes may be white-washed candleboxos. On
the other hand, she may be lovely. If so, send us
the name of the school, and we will sing your
verses to her over the garden wall to a comb-and-
curl-paper accompaniment. We can’t be inter-
ested in any girl much just now. There are sixty
employed in “ Olivette,” and, the other night,
seven serenaded us at our residence, the high C of
one of them killing our dog. So our smooth
hands, you see, are full, “Rough Hands.”—
“J.C.”: Next week “M.” (Free-selectors, Con-
ference): Capital style—“J.B.W.” (Shoalhaven):
Don’t understand it “AU.”: Not suitable—
“ B.M.” (Grenfell): We don’t see that there is any
meanness to complain about—“ Christophus’ :
General readers would find it vague..." Etheline”:
Put it in her album “ Truth”: No, we won’t—
“Charm”: Your verses on the “ad.” too weak.
We do not undertake to return rejected
communications. Writers should keep copies.
Mr. Henry Moses, M.P.
On our front page this week appears a por-
trait of Mr. Henry Moses, one of the mem-
bers for Canterbury returned at the last
general election. Mr. Moses is a native of
vVindsor in this colony, and was born in
He received his education at the semi-
nary of the Rev. A. Adams, and the law
was selecte 1 for him as a profession, hut this
being distasteful, he turned to more practi-
cal pursuits He started in the milling busi-
ness at the Hawkesbury, and by a system
of liberal and straight dealing with the
farmers in that district, seemed the con-
fidence and esteem of the whole people,
which afterwards assumed the form of his
being returned to Parliament on live suc-
cessive occasions. At the termination of the
session of ib80, Mr. Moses retired from poli-
tics, having decided on a tour through
Europe. On his return, he was nominated
at the last general election, and returned
for Canterbury. In politics, Mr. Moses has
pursued an independent and impartial
course, proof of this fact being afforded in
his election in every Parliament that he sat,
to the Elections and Qualifications Com-
mittee.
Pet Phrases, which we would like to see
eliminated from all dramatic productions:—My
cheeild I my cheeild I Foiled I Aha ! I see it
all now. Flinty-hearted monster I 1 had a
dream last night. Leave me; I would be alone.
You shall bitterly rue this day. —Another
step, and you are lost I—Must we then separate
for ever ?—I could have sworn you loved me,
I will defend my honour with my life. Cara-
mella, my darling:, we part no more. Child, you
know not of what you speak. Maffled I and by a
boy—a beardless boy. Listen, Margaret—1 am
not the man I was. Would you thus attack a
defenceless woman ? This, then, is the end of
your boasted affection. For years I have hugged
my awful secret to my breast. My time will
come- and then, Roderick Alwyn, beware I The
blood of my murdered father cries aloud for ven-
geance. What is this? Blood I There has been
foul work here I Take care, Vernon Harcourt—
beware lest I lose my self-control. The escut-
cheon of the De Pallisys shall never be smirched
by the act of a dastard. Hah 1 A knock! I must
hide ! But where ? Ah, in this recess I will he
unob—etc. Do not trifle with me, girl I You
shall marry Herbert de Laucey, or leave nay house
lor ever 1 1 will go to him; I will fall at his
feet; I will entreat him to give us time to pay the
mortgage. Ere yonder sun has sunk behind the
western hills. How cold it is I The wind cuts
like a knife. My limbs are falling. Oh God,
must I die here alone ? 1 am but a poor work-
ing-glrl, my lord; but oh I I had rather be that
than what your gold would make me
And here are some appropriate starters for
stories, followlngjthe prevailing literary fashion
“ Slush, slush, slush I —I first saw the light of day
‘Push the eglantine aside, Hester.’—It was
night —night in the great city. It was night-
night on the lonely downs. — The sun was rising
on a perfect day—A dull, drizzling day on the
Cornish coast.—It was Herbert Delancey’s
twenty-first birthday. It was a beautiful after-
noon toward the close of August. Geoffrey
Marmalade had been a bachelor for many years.
Born of humble parents, John Gray grew up to
manhood Yes, It was very hard for all of us to
part with Lilith Jane ; but Only a gin-miller’s
daughter I And yet how fair —how wondrously
fair she was ! On a sultry day toward the close
of August, 18—, the heir of Jagshurst lay dying.
Tne birds were twittering sweetly that morn-
ing in leafy June, when Clara Montmorencl
No r The speaker was a fair pale girl of some
nineteen summers. A bright, glowing Are, a
cheerful room, books everywhere—what more did
Herbert Vane need to be happy 7”
A cablegram reports that Samuel Jones
Loyd, first Baron Overstone, has passed in his
checks. He passed a big one to Colonel Lindsay,
Y.C., along with his daughter, some years ago;
and now, we suppose, the lucky beggar will stand
in for a million or so more.
Obstructions of the kidneys and attendant
organs will prove fatal if not removed by Hop
Bitters. Bead.
The watering cart saves many a man from
biting the dust.
Corbett pere and the sisters Corbett re-
turned to the directors t eir share (£400) of the
£1000 reward offered by the Melbourne Commer-
cial Bank for information leading to the cenvlction
of the burglar (Corbett, junior), who stole the
£6000 worth of gold. But the directors insisted on
their receiving the money, on the ground that the
retention by the bank of any portion of the re-
ward would be open to misconstruction. They
express their utmost confidence in the integrity of
poor old Corbett, who had been many years in
their service. The unfortunate old man, for
whom it is to be hoped the directors will do some-
thing, was cursed with a bad son. He is not the
only man in Australia so cursed.
Astronomer Tebbutt, writing of the ruddy
glow visible these past few weeks after sunset,
says:—“I remember that, many years ago (pro-
bably 25), a somewhat similar patch of red light
used to make its appearance regularly after sunset
in the W.N.W, This phenomenon occurred pre-
viously to the commencement of my regular me-
teorological observations in 1863, and was, I think,
contemporaneous with a very dry winter. That
the present ruddy skies are not merely a local
Ehenomenon is obvious from the fact that they
ave been regularly observed during the past
three months over a considerable portion of the
Indian Ocean.” We can’t help thinking that the
ruddy glow may be Nature blushing for the
InfernalN.S.W. libel laws.
Some while ago, ere yet the third Alex-
ander had been dynamited out of Holy Russia
from (he bosom of his concubine Dolgorouki into
that of J udas Iscariot, he was appealed to as head
of the Greek Church on a point of theology. The
point to which an answer was required was
wrapped up in a thesis much longer than Hope's
flattering tall, which was much longer than one’s
arm. Did Purgatery exist ? was the thesis boiled
down. So, at least, Alexander interpreted it, for.
without troubling to read the yard and a half or
theological quibbling, he wrote in the margin
“No Purgatory.” Now, perchance, he knows
better, having probably "gone farther and fared
worse in the Czar-ara of Hell's hottest circle.
in a late issue of the Forbes and Parses
'Tiber, “ C.T.’ strikes his lyre and hymns an in
memoriam ode to the late William Tom, Esq., of
Springfield Byng. The last stanza tells us—
“ Parly he came to wisdom's tree—
The tree of life —and happy he
Who doth this fruit possess;
He ate, and lives for ever, where
No mortal plaint nor mortal care
Shall ever him oppress.”
“ C.T.” seems to know all about It. We confess
we don’t, being far too agnostical. Yet we would
remind “ C.T. that Adam came to the same tree
a good deal earlier in his life than Old Bill Tom,
and the result of his eating thereof was to get
’eved out of Paradise.
Premier Service has given orders that
henceforth no Victorian Civil servant shall be
allowed to give an “ H. order” upon the Treasury
for salaiy. The “H. order” Is a venerable Vic-
torian institution. When a curled darling of the
service was going to make a bolt, he got his salary
advanced eight or nine times over by as many
confiding Hebrews (Waxmen). Then, on the first
of the month, his pay was drawn from the depart-
mental accountant by an official friend of the
levanter, who also had got an “H. order.” Then all
the Civil servants who weren’t going to abscond
till next “first of the month” turned out to see
eleven Jews in the hall, each waving in wild de-
spair a bit of blue paper. We were once in the
service ourselves. It was in the Education De-
partment, and still we dropped our little “ H’s.’’
Yes.
Princess Beatrice called at Aberdeen a
couple of months ago, and planted a tree as a
memorial of her visit. The local journals went
into raptures over the affair, but significantly
omitted the leading incident. The fact is that,
while H.R. Highness was delving away with her
little spade, tbe “unwashed” burst the barriers,
and upended the tree. The police and soldiers
worked like tigers to preserve order, but the whole
affair was a pronounced failure. We are not told
whether the prim ess “ drew herself up to her ful
height,” or whether she “ smiled bitterly.” It is
only in high-class periodicals like the London
Journal, or Bow Bells that ladles of ton do this
when the but< her’s mate is anchored to the door
knob blaspheming for his bill. All we know 1»
that “she was slightly flushed, but maintained the
calmness of her demeanour."
It was in New Zealand that a good parson
was quartered on a pastoralist of pious mien and
manners, who was mean also in other ways, and
very Pharisaic. It was not the parson’s wish to
stay there, for he paid high and was in danger; but
he had no choice. The danger was serious, for he
was young and well-favoured, and the pastoralist
had daughters. They were single, but it was not
their fault. Some good book told them that “ man
proposes,” but they had not found it so. So when
the pastoralist and his wife found it wasn’t likely
to be so, in the parson’s case, they called a meeting,
and it was discovered the district couldn’t support
a parson. Yet either of those girls would have
tried by herself. The pastoralist lifts his eye to
Heaven, thanking Heaven he is not like other
P en - And the other men also thank Heaven he
is not. They don’t want him to be.
We are quite willing to take Cupid’s word
for it that he never did run a shop, and that ho
was brought up for a learned profession. What
beats us, is that anybody who ever saw or heard
him could hare come to the conclusion that it was
so. Unlike some vague drawings that require a
verbal explanation Cupid surely doesn’t need the
label— Not a shopman—a member of a learned
profession. Then what, supposing Cupid did
keep a shop ? We’re sure he’d have kept it well,
polite men always do succeed behind the counters.
This way, madame. Now, what’s the next
article ? Graham Berry only kept a shop—a
green-grocer’s shop—in Prahran, Melbourne. And
oir John O Shanassy once kept a shop—a draper’s
shop in Elizabeth-street, Melbourne. And Sir
William Morgan, who has just died, also kept a
shop, and sold candles. And Bob Smith’s friend.
Sir Henry, once kept a shop, too, and sold four-
penny tops to little boys—wnlch was perhaps the
reason that he eventually spun up to the top of
the tree. And after all, perhaps, some of the
above-mentioned persons may have been pretty
nearly as distinguished as the eminent member
for the Hastings, who gave to Sydney its statu* of
Captain Cook, and was brought up to a “ learned
profession.”
Probable result of “ The Vagabond’s ” effort to give effect to his declaration that he
will never rest until he has reached the interior of New Gninea.”
“ Did you ring, Sir? ”
•‘Yes; I called to see the getleman who dreamed that Dirk Hatteriok would win the
Cup?”
The Marker’s Death.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Night after night, the blazing gas beneath,
He did his simple duty by each guest;
Nor gave they him a moment of relief.
From “spotting red” or “ handing up the rest”—
While angrier grew the cough that tore his chest.
Most sorely vexed were his poor aching joints,
That once worked easy as a kangaroo’s—
When he was asked to play a “ hundred points ”
(The which his young opponent oft did lose),
And on his forehead stood death-warning dews.
His sunken check grew yet more deeply sunk,
A fevered light made luminous his eye:
The guests remarked how much his form was
shrunk,
And, In a whisper, said “ poor Tom will die:”
Then chalked their cues with sympathetic sigh.
One morning, when a mery “ pool ” was rife,
And every man to “ pot ” his neighbour tried,
PoorTom, the marker, took “red’s” second “life,”
Then “ played for safety” on the left-hand side,
And, crying “green on yellow,” calmly died.


AYER’S
Hair Vigor
restores, with the gloss and freshness of
youth, faded or gray hair to a natural, rich
brown color, or deep black, as may be desired.
By its use light or red hair may be darkened,
thin hair thickened, and baldness often,
though not always, cured.
It checks falling of the hair, and stimu-
lates a weak and sickly growth to vigor. It
prevents and cures scurf and dandrutf, and
heals nearly every disease peculiar to the
scalp. As a Ladies’ Hair Dressing, the
Vigor is unequalled ; it contains neither oil
nor dye, renders the hair soft, glossy, and
silken in appearance, and imparts a delicate,
agreeable, and lasting perfume.
Mr. C. P. Bricher writes from Kirby, O..
July 3, 1883 : “ Last fall my hair commenced
falling out, and in a short time I became
nearly bald. 1 used part of a bottle of
Ayeh’9 Hair Vigor, which stopped the fall-
ing of the hair, and started a new growth. I
have now a full head of hair growing vigor-
ously, and am convinced that but for the
use of your preparation 1 should have been
entirely'bald.”
J. W. Bowen, proprietor of the McArthur
(Ohio) Enquirer, says : “ Ayer’s Hair Vigor
is a most excellent preparation for the hair.
I speak of it from my own experience. Its
use promotes the growth of new hair, and
makes it glossy and soft. The Vigor is also
a sure cure for dandruff. Not within my
knowledge has the preparation ever failed
to give entire satisfaction.”
Mr. Angus Fairbairn, leader of the
celebrated “Fairbairn Family” of Scottish
Vocalists, writes from Boston, Mass., Feb. 6,
1880 : “ Ever since my hair began to give sil-
very evidence of the change which fleeting
time prooureth, I have used Ayer’s Hair
Vigor, and so have been able to maintain
an appearance of youthfulness —a matter of
considerable consequence to ministers, ora-
tors, actors, and in fact every one who lives
in the eyes of the public.”
Mrs. O. A. Prescott, writing from 18 Elm
St, Charlestoton, Mass., April 14, 1882, says :
“ Two years ago about two-thirds of my hair
came off. It thinned very rapidly, and 1 was
fast growing bald. On using Ayer’s Hair
Vigor the falling stopped and a new growth
commenced, and in about a month my head
was completely covered with short hair. It
has continued to grow, and is now as good as
before it fell. I regularly used but one bottle
of the Vigor, but now use it occasionally as
a dressing.”
We have hundreds of similar testimonials
to the efficacy of Ayer’s Hair Vigor. It
needs but a trial to convince the most skepti-
cal of its value.
prepared by
Dp.J C.Ayep&Co.,Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists.
rjQIO THE ELECTORS OF MACQUARIE WARD
Gentlemen.—Mr. Alderman Butcher, M.P.,
having announced his Intention to retire
from the representation of your Ward, I have
great pleasure, therefore, in announcing to you
that I shall bo a candidate for this vacancy at the
next Aidermanic Election.
Your obedient Servant,
SYDNEY BURDBKIN.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 17th November, 1888.
Tenders for public works and sup-
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
Is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be In attendance w hen the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, If possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not hind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
F. A. WRIGHT.
It ia not every man who can sit down,
draw his salary, play dominoes, and let Fame go.
Tbe Bev. Dr. Bromby can’t do It, at any rate,
Anxiously, strenuously, tearfully-nay, nasally,
he has prayed against being led into temptation,
but, as it appears, all in vain. The goddess is too
much for him. Even in his old ag;e she has set his
eves dancing and his heart beating. He has put
his dominoes into his box, and has come out to
look after her. Thereby has come his fall. He is
to be found now, like the giddy young men of the
generation, running up and down Melbourne, with
bis eyes on her back hair and his hands stretched
out in an effort to touch her improver. While
nobody sought her, the reverend doctor sat at his
dominoes. But when the Strongs and the Rentouls
aad the Hamers, and a score of others, young and
supple and frolicsome, began spooning around,
the old man fixed his collar, oiled his grey locks,
and came posturing out as the most worthy
of her admirers. He carried with him half
a dozen disquisitions on the “ Soul.” For a
divine who is enamoured of Fame, this, pro-
vided he can put a little heterodoxy into it,
is one of the most Ingratiating lays. The
reverend doctor had the little heterodoxy all
sight. It was very neatly blended. Although
t.iare was as much of it as would have got him
burned a couple of centuries ago, and excommuni-
cated in the year 1830, and stripped of his gown in
the year 1800, and blamed for being a man of dan-
gerous proclivities in 1880, still there was only just
as mucn as in the year 1883 earns for a churchman
the name of being liberal-minded. Dr. Bromby’s
disquisitions on the “ Soul,” showed that he was a
liberal-minded man, and Fame —that virao petit-
ions that seems to have run away with the brains
of the Australian Protestant churches—was be-
lieved to have turned around and winked at the
old man as he came panting up. Then the doctor
went straight for her heart. He announced that
ho would hold forth on Darwinism in St, Paul’s
Church on Sunday week. And he hold forth.
And the way he pleaded to be regarded as one of
the broadest-minded men of his time was pathetic.
He believed nearly everything that Darwin wrote,
and was proud that Darwin had existed. But
somehow, when It was all over, Fame had still her
back hair and Improver turned towards him. Is
it that she la a coquette, and likes dallying with
young men, or is It that in Australia, at the
present time, and especially in Melbourne, she
is beginning to get disgusted with men who,
to win her, are ingeniously quibbling over
words the plain meaning of which they one time
swore to, and are befooling themselves with the
belief that the contradictions between their sacer-
dotal and their human lives are unnoticed? We
have often thought that Fame was a coquette;
that the petulant virgin was very much of a fliit,
and was often actuated by a perverse fancy for
what had in itself very little merit; but in the
present case, as we Iuok at the panting old man
following tier from St. Paul’s Church, with his
eyes on her back hair and his bands stretched ovt
to her Improver, we are forced to think that she is
actuated by disgust.
His Most Sacred Majesty.
The bigots who want to force nineteenth century
people to live In a sixteenth century atmosphere
have been parading In great force lately. Their
model monarch and epoch appear to be Charles II.
and his times,since they are perpetually appealing
from modern sentiment and the spirit of modern
legislation to the sentiment of the Puritans and
the spirit of Carolan legislation. The prosecutions |
of barbers and appiewomen, and small newsboys, I
for Sunday trading, receives no countenance from !
the legislation of the last two hundred vears. So
the party of retrogression appeal to Charles II, j
for judgment. I
A Tamworth wit says that the editorial
“ we ” of a local Journal are Hooke and I.
The tram nearly had a policeman for a
victim on Monday. Policeman-like, he was “on
the track.”
The Forbes and Parkbs Gazette man, in
calling attention to the fact that “poor Davie
Metcalfe, one of the most intelligent of our Public
School pupils,” had crammed himself sick tor the
late Junior public examination, says he knows
from personal experience that cramming cramps
and distorts the mental energies. We shudder to
think how much he must have crammed. Yes.
Odd questions are sometimes asked parlia-
mentary candidates. Every Australian not at the
breast has heard of Larry Bourke of Kilmo. e
(Vic.), how he stood for that town (formerly Sir
John O’Shanassy’s pocket borough), how a dis-
•atlsfled countryman in the crowd asked him his
“idays about purtection” and was incontinently
flattened out with a brick, and how Larry
meandered to the foot-lights with the innocent
inquiry “Would any other Jintleman like to ask a
question?” All this is historical—as well known
on the back blocks of the far Barooo as in Bilk ’em
Square. But our staid English kinsmen are not
above asking for information when they get a
chance. At a late election meeting in M in-
chester, the candidate had to face the following:
—“Are you in favour of a State-paid hangman,
instead of the Sheriff having to appoint nominally
a man each time an individual has to shuffle off ?
And, further, considering that Marwood died sud-
denly, and that previous to his death he dropped a
man in the hole and had to pull him up again, and
also on one occasion had to apply his toe in addi-
tion to the long drop—do you think it necessary
that hanging should be taught in our Schools of
Art, so that we can get a competent person when
circumstances cause one to be required 7”
Britannia’s “first Commoner’s” usually picked
On political grounds, under social restrictions;
The Bananaland rule Isn’t nearly so strict.
It asks of him nothing but honest convictions.
The clerk of a certain N.Z. road board is a
widow who is fair and forty, but not fat. A few
years ago, she and the Mayo , one Marl, were on
the best of terms, He was a widower then. Now
he Is mairled, and war rages ’twixt him and the
widow. Once, perchance, she dreamt of a happy
home In Marita Felix ; now, the gprctw injuria
formw— but, ’twas ever thus.
They are not going to hang Barney
O’Keefe, the Grafton aboriginal ; which seems
strange, considering that Barney is a blackfellow.
When he heard that he was not to swing, but that
he would have to stay in gaol, he began to dance
and sing, and remarked that he was quite satisfied.
Perhaps this unfortunate black had been told a lot
about the climate of the other Shoah. Or. per-
haps, he had heard about the recent little doings In
Darlinghurst and Tamworth, and fancied that all
gaols were run on the same principles.
The Church of Scotland is said to have
suffered a great loss in the dying of Dr. Begg.
The doctor “held decided views,” he had “no
elasticity of faith,” he "adhered to the principles
of his church,” and so on. He hated the mention of
a theatre, or the sound of an organ in church, with
an unexampled hatred known only to truly reli-
gious Sc( tohman. He was a rigid Puritan, know-
ing no charity towards those who didn’t think as
he did, and h • never had a doubt, holy, earnest
man that he was, where “ those ” would go to.
Flies and bugs, beetles, insects, roaches, ants,
bed-bugs, rats, mice, gophers, Jack-rabbits, cleared
out by “ Rough on Rats.” Moses, Moss & Co,.
Sydney, General Agents.
A little par. about papers. Tbe New
York Times has lowered from 3 cents to 3 cents—
thereby dropping a revenue of from 300,000 to 400,000
dollars a year; and the N.Y. Herald has followed
suit. What Is interesting, also to learn, is that the
executors of the late Mr. Ashton Dilke, M.P., have
sold his two-thirds of the London Referee to
Henry Sampson, (“Pendragon ”), who is now
virtually sole proprietor of the paper. It is
rumoured, in connection with this journal, that
George R. Sims’s contract with the proprietary,
will shortly expire, when the brilliant' 1 Dagonet ”
(and immortal author of “The Romany Rye I”)
will start a weekly on hla own account. Mr. Sims,
by-the-way, had a paper-magazine some time ago
called One and All; but ii was a financial failure
of the most distinguished description. Talking of
Sims, reminds us that his portrait has recently
been Issued by London Society, in a coloured
cartoon, in which picture the author of “The
Ballads of Babylon,” resembles a puffy-faced
aonrmawi, with very large feet, homing in his
hand a pen big enough to slay Blunderbore with.
As a matter of fact, Mr. Sims is a man with a very
weak digestion; and when is added to this an
inordinate desire to accumulate money, it will be
understood that he has a disposition that fre-
quently borders upon the hyp ichondriacal. Sims’
great “pal” is Ned Barnard, the artist; and tie
two of them have been, of late, going the rounds
of the slums, and publishing their experiences in
the Pictorial Word: Barnard illustrating “Da-
gonet’s ” cony in a manner usj graphic as it is
gruesome. It is a curious fact that Sims, though
a Cockney, and—we quote “Little Dorrit”—“nf
the streets streety,” seldom writes in London. It
Is hla privilege to write In the country. When we
can get £3000 for rot like the “ Romany Rye,” that
may be our privilege, too. When it is, we will let
you know,
Father Petre, unable to make headway
against a big debt upon the Llthgow R.C. Church,
has resigned. A dunne has been very properly
sent to look things up.
Charles J. Stevens, formerly member for
Northumberland, died on Sunday In the New-
castle hospital from dysentery.
Where is Panmure, or what sort ot people
Inhabit it? What do they live on, and where do
they get their Ideas from ? We have been about
this island since Captain Cook’s time, have rusti-
cated in Dumbulbulano, and drawn a very accur-
ate sketch-map of Uamtflnowhere, have written
odes In Whitman’s cemetery on the Barcoo, and
have rundown the setting sun scores of times, but
we have never squeezed the hand of a maiden of
Panmure, and never swallowed its invigorating
liquor. That’s possibly because we never played
ante-up with the Panmure parson, but that is pos-
sibly because we uever heard of the place until
the other day. We should never have beard of it
only for the people who inhabit it, and we should
never have heard of them either only that they
want a J.P. They wrote down to the Melbourne
Crown Law Office the other day, stating that they
wanted a J.P. badly. Then they wrote again stat-
ing that they didn’t want one. There is fair rea-
son for judging that the writer of both letters was
the same individual. But he was “ elevated ” the
first time, and sober the second-or nearly that.
Then there came a third letter, which showed
marks of having been written in the morning.
They—namely, the same old penman,—tells the
Minister that the J.P. appointed to Panmure must
know how to read and write. That’s what started
us to ask about Panmure. If anyone will pay our
fare and show us where it lies, we’ll go out and
have a iook at the old party We’ll be! his name
is Smith. But why did he call it Panmure ? Whv
did he not call it Smithy ?
ALFONSO.—KING OF SPAIN.
(Bee Leading Article).


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general .]
RACING INDEX.
Readers will find the column regularly
headed with a list of fixtures to be attended to
within the month; followed by names and dates
of Race-meetings to be held in the more distant
future.
THE MONTH’S FIXTURES.
Druitt Town Weights November 38.
Murrumbidgee T.C November 31, 33, 38.
Nyngan Races November 32, 38.
Druitt Town November 34.
Tattersall’s Cup Weights November 34.
A.J.C. Summer Cup Weights November 36.
Warialda Acceptances November 34.
Narandera General Entry November 37.
Hillston Handicaps close November 38.
Bendigo J.C. (V.) November 38, 39.
Narandera J.C November 39, 30.
Hartley District J.C. Spring November 30, 30.
Liverpool J.C. Entry December 1.
Campbell town Handicaps close December 1.
Bega Entry Closes December 3.
Candelo Entry .. .. December 3.
Temora General Entry December 4.
A.J.C. Summer Cup, and December Stakes,
first forfeit December 5.
Tattersall’s General Entry December 5.
Tattersall’s Cup, non-acceptances December 5.
Wallsend Entries Decembers.
Hillston Weights Decemper 5.
Campbelitown Weights Pecemoer6.
Temora Races December 6.
Campbelitown General Entry December 10.
Bega Weights December 10.
Liverpool Weights December 11.
Liverpool General Entry December 11.
Wallsend Weights December IS.
Casino Handicaps close December 13.
Casino Weights De ember 15.
Hillston Acceptances December 10.
Wallsend non-accept December 19.
Casino Acceptances December 33.
New England Handicaps close December 32.
Hillston Races December 26.
Bega Acceptances December 31.
8.T.C. Genera jEntry Januai’y 8, 1884
Adelong Races January 1, 3.
New England Weights January 7.
New England Acceptances January 17.
Balonne Handicaps close— February 18
Balonne St. George Handicap Weights....March 12.
Balonne St. George Handicap Accept March 31.
Balonne Handicap Weights April 8.
FUTURE RACES.
Tamworth R.C. (Summer) December 4, 6.
Warialda J.C.. December 12,13.
Camden and Campbelitown J.C. Races.. . Dec. 15.
Liverpool J.C. December 23.
Victoria Amateur T.C December 26.
Fleasant Creek (V.) December 26.
Clarence Tattersall's J.C December 26.
Casino Races December 28.
Gunnedah December 36, 27.
Wallsend December 26, 37.
Tattersall’s (Annual) January 1, 1884.
V.K.C January 1.
Wentworth January 1.
Candelo Races January 2.
Bega J.O. Races January 14,11.
New England Races Janury 35, 26.
Sydney T.C January 26.
Tasmanian R.C. (Summer) February 13,14,15.
Coonabarabran January 34, 26.
Cooma Races February 6, 8.
Braldwood Races February 6, 8.
V.R.C. Autumn March 1, 6, 8.
Wanganui (N.Z.) J.C. Autumn March 6, 7.
Balonne (Q.) Races April 8, 9.
Hswkesbury R.C. (Autumn) April 3. 5.
AQUATICS
Rush v. Trickett December 1.
Hunt Prize Decembers.
Deeble and Punch Prize December 15.
Manly Rowing and Sailing Club Regatta. ...Dec. 15.
All Comers Regatta December
Newcastle Regatta January 1,1884.
National Regatta January 36.
CRICKET.
Melbourne v. N.S.W. at Melbourne Dec. 26.
ATHLETICS,
Hay Athletic Club Sports Dec. 26, 27.
Blayney Sports Dec. 26.
Wrestling Match, Cobar December 26.
Highland Society’s Gathering January 1
BICYCLING.
N.S.W. Cyclists’ Union Race Meeting Doc. 1.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“N.U.F.”: Grand Flaneur was never
beaten, and Martini bids well for a like career—
“ W. 0. Hunter”: The Hon. James White has
always bought yearlings out of winning families.
The results in five seasons being three Marlbyr-
nong Plates and one Derby-Cup double, with
Palmyra, Segenboe, Tolanthe, and Martini-Henry.
Chester was first raced in public by his breeder,
the late Hon. E. K. Cox — “Enquirer” (Mooki):
Archie has not met with an accident, so far as we
know; but the severe call upon him in the race
for the Melbourne Cup did him no good —
“May Day” (Vic.): Maribyrnong is the sire of
four winners of the great Two-year-old Stake
bearing his name; Yattendo sired three, and all
other horses have been content with one winner
each “P.R. 10”: Commotion, First Water, and
Sardonyx, of the elder div ision, ran up to some-
thing like their proper form at Flemington. The
Drummer, Sweet William, Cunnamulla. and the
rest, made a poor show "•“Fast Time”: The
Maribyrnong Plate course is a straight five fur-
longs; and the same youngsters have to run one
furlong further at Easter, in the A.J.C. Ch. rapagne
Stakes, at Bandwick.
The Budget.
[BY NEW WARRIOR.]
Wmr.E writing, there seems to be a Rood chance
of tine weather for the events of this and next
week; and I begin, as usual, by warning owners
and trainers of what they have specially to attend
to within the next few days. When this is read
racing will be In full swing at Waggaand Nyngan,
which will be followed by Drultt Town, on the
!24th (this Saturday). The weights for Tattersall’s
and the A.J.C. Summer Cups are promised on
Monday next, the 2Cth, when also Warialda accept-
ances mud be made, and then we have Narandera
General Entry on next Tuesday, the 37th, with
the closing of Hillston handicaps on the follow-
ing day. The Narandera and Hartley Jockey Clubs
both race on the 29th and 30t h—next Thursday and
Friday-which brings us to the 1st of December,
on which day we have the Liverpool J.C. entries
and closing of Campbelltown handicaps. Bega
and Candelo entries close on the 3rd; Temora on
the 4th; and there will be plenty of time next
week to notice any of those clubs that may wtSh
to have their closing of stakes on the 5th called
attention to.
I have been glad to hear that the Hon. John
Eules’s Chrysolite, by Stockwell, from the cele-
brated old Touchstone mare, Juliet, has thrown a
very fine chestnut colt by Crown Prince, which, I
hope, will turn out well, and assist to compensate
his owner for the bad luck that has attended this
mare since bis purchase of her from Mr. Went-
worth. Her daughter, Chryeophrase, by Angler
has now recovered from injuries received in th
Are at Duckenfleld. There is not now a two-year-
old representative, but Mr. Eales has a Maribyr-
nong yearling filly, as well as the present foal, to
keep up the family credit. As Chrysolite was
foaled in 1860, every foal from her now should be
valued at its weight in gold—the mare having pro-
duced Cleolite, Lapidist, Onyx, Robinson Crusoe,
and Henchman—at first called Friday.
During Mr. de Mestre’s absence in Melbourne,
Cocoanut dropped a colt foal by Robinson Crusoe:
the youngster, therefore, being a full brother of
the mighty Navigator. If all goe-. well, this latest
arrival should be a welcome addition to the already
lengthy list at Terrara. Mr. de Mestre’s retirement
from the turf is now generally cone ded to be cor-
rect; and if so. the sale of his stud will be a red-
letter day in the annals of the Australian turf.
But, like the “ close of Sir Henry Parkes’s poli-
tical life,” I’ve he rd the same thing so often that
I must decline to believe it until it’s proved an
accomplished fact.
The well-known brood mare, Mendicant, by Fire-
works from Ragpicker, is dead.
The Barb will end his days at Mitta Mitta, the
home of Mr. Henry Bowler, and, as he is to be
mated with some of his new owners’ best mares,
he may yet make an undying reputation as a sire.
It appears now to be pretty generally under-
stood that First Water was not purchased by the
Hon. James White, but Mr. Fennelly did the bid-
ding for a Mr. Moore, and his destination is said to
be India. If this be correct, the handsome son of
Fireworks and The Gem should well pay his way
in the new home chosen for him.
There is no truth whatever in the rumour that
was pretty freely circulated, which gave out the
date of Martini-Henry's foaling as July, 1880, and
which, if true, would make him a four-year-old
instead of a three. The Australasian says that
First Water’s owner has been in communication
with the Auckland Stud Company as to the date of
the colt’s foaling, but, so far, no reply has been
received. Mr. Barmfield may well have saved him-
self the trouble of enquiry, though he is bidding
for a big stake, as the Auckland Stud Company is
not likely to fall into such an error.
The following is a list of the principal winners
over the late V.R.C. meeting:—Hon. white £5176,
Hon. W. Pearson £1191, Mr. W. Branch £817, Mr.
L M’Donald £665 10s , Mr. J. Leek £546, Mr. E. de
Mestre £433, Mr. H. Falkener £332. Mr. J. A. Lang
£308, Mr. 8. Barnard £303, Mr. T. Barifield £300,
Mr. T. Wilson £386, Sir Thomas Elder £282, Mr. D.
8. Wallace, £263. Mr. A. Pldcock £359, Mr. A. F.
Smart £304, and Mr. T. L. Baker £200; the total
amount paid away by the V.R.C. in prizes being
£13,549. These figures show that very little less
than one half the money run for comes to Sydney,
and the Hon. James White’s cheque is the largest
ever drawn by one winner.
The Camden and Campbelltown Jockey Club has
finished the new grand stand, and, as the saddling
paddock will also be completed in a few days,
everything promises to be In apple-pie order by
the date of the club’s first meeting. 1 hope it may
be so.
Mr. N. R. D. Bond, the indefatigable secretary of
the CaulfieM Racing Club, is already in the field
with his dates for next year's fixtures, of which
there are to be no less than seven to be run thus:
February 9, March 15, April 19, June 21, August 16,
October 11 and 18, December 36.
Allsopp informs me that Sir Modred caused him
a deal of trouble during the return journey irom
Melbourne. It appears he had been “ fighting” in
his box, and when remonstrated with reared up
and came down so heavily on his back that his
trainer was much alarmed. He didn't hurt him-
self, however, and reached Sydney none the worse
for his mishap.
Mr. Edward Underwood has been elected Presi-
dent of the Quirindl Jockey Club, and a very in-
fluential list of office-bearers has been chosen for
the annual meeting, which has been fixed for the
10th of January.
Judging by the entries received for the forth-
coming meeting at Temora, there should be a very
successful re-union.
Navigator was put up at auction a few days ago
in Melbourne, and withdrawn without a bid. A
few months ago, Mr. de Mestre refused 3000 gs. for
this son of Robinson Crusoe and Cocoanut, but, as
his feet have been troublesome, and his under-
standings not by any means of the best order, it
seems doubtful that he can be got ready for the
Champion Race. The meeting of three such
clinkers as Navigator, Commotion, and Martini-
Henry, with several “ lesser lights,” would be a
treat to witness; but the first-named, I hoar, is an
unlikely starter, and his being offered for sale on
the eve, as it were, of such a great event as the
“ Champion,” certainly gives colour to the rumour
that all is not right with him.
The following is a full list of the thoroughbreds
disposed of by Messrs. Yuille and Co., in Mel-
bourne, a few days ago:—Hyllus by Hercules—
Fantome, Mr. Roach, 55gs.; Whisper, 6yrs., by
Hercules—Maid of Buda, Mr. M‘Dermot,
gelding by Oliver Twist—Alice Grey, Mr. Selman,
The Barb, 1863, by Sir Hercules—Yeung
Oulnare, Mr. Bowler, HOgs ; Pocohontasby Lapi
dist, Mr. A. Davis, 65gs.; General Scobeloff by
First King, Mr. Selman, 90gs.; Illusion, 2yrs., by
Countryman—Deceptive, Mr. J. Crozier, lOOgs.;
Paul by Maribrynong—Lady, Mr. Kelly, lOlgs.
(afte wards sold to Mr. Tom Hales at an ino ease
of £5); Egerton by Bethnal Green—Miss Parr, Mr.
Howie, 145gs.; Connoisseur by Don Giovanni, Mr.
Baker, 95gs ; Belmont by King of the Ring, Mr.
Aitken, 200gs.; Dizzy by Hughenden, Mr. W.
Gannon, 150gs.: Gipsy’s Warning bv Gemma di
Vergy, 80gs.; Rory O’More by Corsair, Mr. Kelly,
120gs.; First Water, aged, by Fireworks from The
Gem, Mr. Moore, 400gs.; Ike by Plscator—Lady,
330gs.; Waxlight by Plscator—Nightlight, 140gs.;
Alde-de-Camp by Tim Whiffler (imp.)—Killarney,
310gs.; Raillery, 50gs.; Albury by Yattendon—
Stockdove, 370gs.; King’s Head, 50gs.; Allander by
King of the Ring—Lady Manners Sutton, 130gs.
Had Olga won the Oaks, for which she started
such a big favourite at the late Flemlngton meet-
ing; there would probably have been another
haul for the Victorian lawyers, as the filly was
wrongly nominated, and the V.R.C. in allowing
her to start have established a bad precedent,
which they might find It difficult to steer clear of
in future.
Most of the N.S.W. horses who have been taking
Eart in the great racing cai nival at Flemington
ave returned home, and after the conclusion of
the Murrumbidgee meeting there’s sure to be a
deal of work done on the training grounds to
occupy the attention of the numerous army of
“ touts.” Randwick at “ early morn” will present
a very busy appearance between this and the
Summer and Tattersall’s Cup meetings.
Possibly never before has so much money
depended on the issue of any race in Australia as
on the last Melbourne Cup, and several of the
principal jockeys stood to win almost iabulous
sums on their respective mounts. Williamson,
who rode Martini-Henry, threw in for a big stake;
M’Grade had £4000 to nothing about his mount;
Hales would have landed a big thing; and it’s said
that Nicholson, who piloted First Demon, would
have been enriched to the extent of £5000 had he
landed the much-coveted prize.
From the London correspondent of the Austra-
lasian, I learn that the Sandown Park Racing
Club intend giving 10,000 sovs. to be run for at the
July meeting of 1886. the race to be called the
Eclipse weight for age, about a mile and a
quarter, and it is thought to entice Australian
bred horses to enter. The conditions are not by
any means liberal, and the race will fall through
unless there are 300 entries. Three year o'ds are
to carry 8st., 4 yrs. 8st. 131b., 5 and upwards 9st.,
while mares and geldings receive an allowance of
31b. Ten sovs. are to be paid at the time of en-
trance, which can be forfeited if declared by the
first Tuesday in Feb. ’84, and seeing that starters
must put up 110 sovs., while those who hold out
until after January ’85, have to pay 60 sovs., the
Sandown Park Club don’t intend to lose much by
their “ liberal ” offer, and can hardly expect sup-
port from the colonies.
Reading Mr. W. J. Hammersley’s article on Touts
and Tipsters. I see he makes‘‘New Warrior” a
scribe attached to the Town and Country
Journal. The mistake was first made by the
Melbourne Evening Herald, from which Mr.
Hammersley evidently copied, it being well-
known among the sporting scribes of the Sydney
papers that “New Warrior,” is on The Bulletin
staff.
Among the visitors to Melbourne during the
races were Mr. C. H. Hannell, president and han-
dicapper of the Newcastle Jockey Club, and also
Mr. Loohhead, a well-known active member of
that body; and there is no doubt we shall see good
fruits spring out of their sojourn in tt e Southern
capital at such a time.
To show the amount of money Invested on
races, quite outside of the Betting Ring and Con-
sultations, it may be mentioned that Mr. Lochhead,
of Newcastle, who always occupies himself on a
racecourse In making up “sweeps,” had over
£1800 pass through his hands, in this way, on the
four days of the late Flemington meeting; and be
was only one of many who took up positions in
front of the Grand Stand, and carried on the same
business. It seems very like hard work, and large
responsibility, undertaken out of pure philan-
thropy, considering that no commission is de-
ducted; but Mr. Lochhead is never more in his
element at Randwick than when surrounded by a
crowd of speculators in the sweeps of which he’s
the promoter.
Narandera Acceptances, Turf Club Handi-
cap :— Terminus, Tantaliser, Nightligbt, The
Spaniard, Prudence, Carisslma, Mystery, Hector,
Rake, Victor, Omega, Ass-yrlan King. Town
Plate : Terminus, Tantaliser, Nightligbt, The
Spaniard, Prudence, Carisslma, Mystery, Hector,
Rake, Victor, Omega, Assyrian King, Lucifer.
Weights fob the Sandhurst Cup, VA mile :—
Frying Pan 9.4, Israelite 9.0, Odd Trick 8.12, Hurri-
cane 8.10, Yately 8.9, Trump Yoss 8.8, Linda 8 8.
St. Laurence 8.8, Footstep 8.7, Pollio 8.5, The Joker
8.1, Malua 8.0, Josephine 8.0, Ericthoneus 7.11, West-
bury 7.8, Spark 7.7, Mistake 7.7, Virago 7.6, Iron-
hand 7.4, Flying Jib 7.3, Attache 7.3, Squireen 7.3,
Wee Donald 7.3, Kohinoor 7.3, The Marchioness
7.3, Irralee 7.1, Belle Brandon 7.0, Borderman 7.0,
Camerlne 7.0, Gymkhana 7.0, Uproarious 6.12, Bar-
ley Bree 6.12, Ironmaster 6.13, Archduke 6.12, Guy
Fawkes 6,11, Coup-d’Etat 6.10, Merryjig 6.8, Kit
Nibbler 6.8, Peverll 6.7, Wotonga 6.7, Omelette 6.7,
Victress 6.7, Highlander 6.7.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The old “black demon,” the Barb, gained
third honours at the recent National Agricultural
Society’s Exhibition, in Melbourne.
Robertson’s friends were certain he would
“come out of his shell” In the Krug contest.
They wore not disappointed, and he was picked up
by a boat from the Admiral.
From his own statement, although he has
not been engaged in any very important contest,
Hanlan had not a very bad time of it last season,
as his earning from matches, regattas, &o., up to
the end of August amounts to more than £3000.
The Auckland bookmakers paid away
about £4000 over Martini-Henry’s double victory.
Colonel Fraser, of the Thames, landed between
£1500 and £1600. The secretary of the Auckland
Stud Company won £500, and other employes of
the “ompany lesser amounts.
“Professor” Miller now offers to wrestle
any two athletes in Australia, for £100 a side, in
the mixed Gneco-Roman and Border styles; the
conditions to be that each of the two wrestle
alternately, and the winner of the contest to be
the one who gets the best of nine falls.
In a show match recently between the
English billiardists, Mitchell and Peall, the former
made breaks of 133 (38 spots), 144 (46 spots), 309 (66
spots); Peall made breaks of 138 (46 spots), 116, 351
(79 spots), and ran out with an unfinished 107 (33
spots). The match was 1000 up, Mitchell conceding
100, and still they thought of sending the lad from
Glen Innes home. What for ?
P. Davin, the Irish athlete, recently
cleared 33ft. 3in., in a wide jump at Garrick-on-
Suir, and made a record The previous best, was
Lane’s Dublin jump of 33ft. l)£in., but, somehow
or other, it got abroad that the take-off was down-
hill, and the jump was doubted in many quarters.
Bavin’s performance however, is vouched for by
the well-known Irish sporting paper, Sport.
Some extraoi dinarily heavy betting took
dace recently on the Czarewitch and Cam-
jridgeshire. Mr. Walton, the so-called American
plunger, backed his mare Girofle to win an enor-
mous stake for both races; for the Cambridgeshire
he took 4000 to 100 ten times, then 15,000 to 500, and
at last 30,000 to 1000 in one bet. Altogether, he
stood to win little short of£100,000 on either race.
Speaking of T. Ray’s big pole jump (lift.
4bn.), Land and Water says:—Those who have
seen Ray jump, ana especially at the Nottingham
Northern Counties meeting last June, can be little
surprised at Saturday’s feat. Over and over again
he has hung in the air at over lift. 8in., only lack-
ing the lateral impetus to throw himself over the
bar. Sooner or later he will manage the trick, and
then 13ft. would not surprise me in the least.
Years ago, until I saw Ray, I doubted his U1 ver-
sion record, but once having seen him with the
pole, all wonder ceases at anything he may do in
this line.
At the South London Harriers meeting, on
the Kennington Oval (Eng.), W, G. George de-
feated W. Snook in the Visitors’ Mile. Snook eut
out the work a couple of yards in advance, and In
this order the quarter of a mile was accomplished
in 50 3-6sec., the half-mile in 3fuin. 7 3-5sec., and
1000 yards in 3min. 37 3-5seo. Fifty yards beyond
this, George spurted and reversed the positions,
leading by a couple of yards at three-quarters of a
mile. Time, 3min. 18 3-5sec. Snook now set to
work, and a ueck-and-neck race ensued until
about 100 yards from home, when George began
to steal away, and finally Snook stopped twenty
yards from home, and George trotted in in 4mln.
S8 3-5sec.
A new record-breaking swimmer has
turned up in England, in the person of Mr. Blew-
Jones, or the Otter Club. For the 100 yards’
championship at the Lambeth Baths he was
opposed by some of the best English amateurs,
and won cleverly. Unfortunately, however, there
was no official timekeeper appointed, and, though
several watches made the time of the final 1mm.
llsec.—the fastest on record for this distance—two
reliable gentlemen who were present did not make
it faster than Imin. 113-5sec. In all probability,
therefore, Blew-Jones is robbed of a record by an
oversight on the part of the officials. On the fol-
lowing Thursday Blew-Jones easily accomplished
the feat of swimming 400 yards (10 lengths) at
Lambeth Baths for the.Ilex Swimming Club gold
badge under the stipulated time, 6mln. 30sec. Not
only did he succeed in winning the trophy, but he
also succeeded in lowering the amateur record for
this distance (6min. 14 3-6sec.) by completing the
course in the marvellous time of 6min. 3 4-5seo.
The following blood stock was purchased
by iMr. W. A. Long, at the Middle Park sale, Hug-
land:-Dora (1868;, by Weatherbit out of Ada
Mary, by Hobbie Noble or Marsyas; covered by
Exminster, £80. Bleotriclty(1877), by Thunderbolt
out of La Belle Jeanne, by Weatherbit; covered by
Scottish Chief, £160. V estat II. G875), by Vospaslan
out of Seclusion, by Tadmor; covered by Scottish
Chief, £350. Simbriok (1878), by Favonius out of
Sanctity, by Caterer; covered by Klsbor, £85. Vic-
tprle (1874), by Victorious out of Chilham
Thunderbolt; covered by Scottish Chief, £ioo
Colt, by Scott sh Chief—Bonny Bell, £460. Tahn?
(1880), by . dventurer out of Rub a Dub, by llabi
plan; covered by Coltness, £120. Fusberta (Istti
by Doncaster out of Furiosa, by Orlando; cover,-i
by Isonomy, £340. Pinnacle (1876), by Adventurer
out of Minerva, by Rataplan: covered by Scottiav,
Chief, £500. Brown Filly, by Maccaroni out of
Pinnacle, £180. Parvenu (1873), by Joskin out of
Queen Elizabeth, by .-.utocrat; covered by Sefton
£130. Reate (1873), by Vespasian out of Sweet
Gallngale, by Blair Athol; covered by Isonomv
£160. Hilda (1866), by Prime Minister out of Ethel!
by Bthelbert; covered by Scottish Chief, £250. Bar
Filly, by Scottish Ghlef-Hllda, £310, Handicraft
(1872), by King Tom out of Woodcraft, by Volti-
guer; covered by Isonomy, £450. Bay Colt bv
Maccaroni out of Handicraft, £300. Total outlay
4S57S.
e oud as Middleton would seem to be of
protests, surely he must have had a surfeit of
them over the race for the Champagne trophy
First, he objected to Brett on the ground that the
M.R.C. sculler had (like many another good
man) carted mullock on a diggings, some
half century ago, and as this did not gee, he
brought up the recent race with Wood, and
argued Brett had forfeited his title to amateur
Wood being a manual labour man. Telegrams
were exchanged between the N.S. Wales aad Vic-
torian Rowing Associations, with the result that
Wood was proved to be an amateur under Vic-
torian rules. Middleton, however, was not quite
done with protests, and seemed determined to
have a shy for the “fizz” trophy, by hook or by
crook, for, although distanced in his heat, he
lodged a protest and claimed the trial, as both
Fittes and Sharland had finished the wrong side of
the boat. The Association again refused to enter-
tain the objection. The last flutter came in bad
form from Middleton, as he had been awarded the
race in the previous contest for the trophy, al-
though he had gained fully a couple of lengths by
going inside the mile beacon, which, under the
rules of the race, meant disqualification; but as the
umpire, Mr. R. Benson, stated he had not seen him
take the short cut, he was awarded the prize.
These protests must, of course, be looked for in
professional races, where the men go straight for
the “sugar,” but it looks anything but sportsman-
like for gentleman amateurs to wrangle 1 n this style
over pots.
What proved the final race for the Krug
Champagne trophy, came off last week, and re-
sulted in a win for Fittes, who already had a leg
in, so be now retains the trophy as his sole
property. The trial heats were rowed on Thurs-
day last, when a stiff south-west wind blew all
the afternoon. A. F. Sharland (Tasmania), A. W.
Fittes (Victoria), D. Middleton (8.R.C.), and J.
Trimble (M.R.C.), started In the first heat, and
finished in the order named. The second heat was
won by C. W. Gaden (8.R.C.), followed by W. G.
Brett (M.R.C.), and C. Dobson (S.R.C.); G. Robert-
son and F. Ives also started, but the first-named
capsized, and the latter threw up the sponge early
in the race. Fittes, Sharland, Brett, and Gaden
started for the final on Saturday last. The race
was rowed on the young flood, and the wind blew
freshly from the south-east. The starter at-
tempted to get his men away fnm off the
Admiral, and made rather a mess of it in conse-
quence, as the skipper of the steamer had to keep
slight way ahead, to prevent his boat from swing-
ing across the stream, and the scullers in keeping
up with her, were fully 150 yards past the starting
point when Mr. Onslow dropped the flag to a most
indifferent start, Gaden, seemingly doubtful
whether the race was off, allowed his men to get
pretty well a length away before he thought of
dashing his sculls in the water, Brett at once
took pride of place, and at Uhr’e Point obtained a
commanding lead, followed by Fittes, Sharland
well up, and Gaden, even at this early portion of
the contest, completely out of it. Nearing the
Mile Point, Brett commenced to waver, and
Fittes, putting on a powerful but ungainly style,
took the lead, which he maintained with ease to
the finish. Sharland rowed a determined and
plucky race, but he steered a course in the full
force of the wind and choppy sea, and was unable
to pass Brett, who at times was far from at home
in the rough water. Gaden pulled a game race,
but was outpaced from the start. As usual, no
two watches on the steamer agreed ab< ut the
time, but 26.30 was the average we struck from the
statements of t everal alleged experts.
SPOTTING GLEANINGS.
Willie Franks, the young walker, has
broken his arm At Charters Towers, B. Hill-
yard and Mr. A. Huxley’s blackboy raced 130 yards,
Hillyard giving the darkey a start of 5 yards and
£60 to £40. A fair start was effected; it was a
good race for a hundred yards, then Hillyard took
the lead, and won by about 5 yards. Thei e was not
much excitement over the race, and very little
money changed hands. ..Edwards refused to
walk O’Connor, in .New Zealand, 25 miles, but
stated his willingness to make a 50-mile match....
J. S. Gardiner, a well-known member of the New
Zealand ring, is dead. One N .Z. weekly states he
left his fam ly in easy circumstances, and another,
that he left them destitute— In the recent match
Parramatta Alfreds against the Orientals, young
Warren, of the latter club, stumped live men and
caught three Inverell cricketers defeated Bun-
darra ditto by 79 runs on the 9th — In the cricket
match Oootamundra v. Wagga, for the Cox Cup,
Armstrong, a colt brought out by Murdoch,
bowled well. He took ten wickets for 66 runs
On Thursday last the Melbourne police were busy
with several so-called totalisator clubs. Frederick
A. Schinerllng, charged with conducting a totaii-
sator club, was lined 40s., with £3 3s. costs; and in
the cases of Jas. Bathe and J ohn Pattiens, charged
with carrying on the Sportsman Club, the former
was discharged, and the latter fined 30a., with £3
3s. costs By cable, we learn arrangements have
been made for an ocean race from Plymouth to
Queensland between the yacht Vestal and the
well-known clipper ship Northern Monarch, to
start on the 34th instant. Also, that arrangements
have been made for the next team of Australian
cricketers to play matches with Kent and Derby.
The Bourke programme for the New Year’s
Day races has been Issued. The added money
amounts to £160, and the programme includes the
New Year Handicap of 50 sovs. and a Handicap
Hurdle Race of 30 sovs About March next, the
Auckland Stud Co., who bred Martini-Henry, will
send a dozen yearlings to Australia for sale.
Apropos, Escopeta, a Musket colt, won the
Hawke’s Bay Guineas.
• • •
Mr. A. Nixon, of the London Bicycle Club,
recently rode from London to John O’Groat’s
house, Caithness (750 miles), on a tricycle, in 8 days
33 hours The Yankee press is still very rough on
Courtney. One paper remarks : “ Courtney says
he was struck by a sand-bag just the night before
the Watkins regatta. Well, if he wasn't, the omis-
sion should have been supplied immediately after
the regatta. A man who talks so much and rows
so little as Courtney, needs to be struck with a
whole landslide—sand, gravel, clay, boulders, and
,all.” Jay Eye See having succeeded in beating
all of his previous records, and nearly equalling
the great feat of Maud S., whose 3min. 10J4sec.
still stands unrivalled, at the Providence meeting
in September the club gave £400 for him to beat
3min. 14sec., which he did with lots to spare. He
shot the quarter in 34sec., the half in Imiu. 6isec. f
the three-quarters in Imin 39sec., and finished very
strong in 3min. 10-Msec... In England, Notts has
found a new bowler in a colt by the name of
Shacklock. He is thought to be a very likely man
for the place of Fred. Morley, who, it is feared,
will not again take up the position of A1 player
A wordy war is going on in England between the
Misses Sageman and Johnson with repect to the
“ ladles’ ” swimming championship. The former
wants the match to come off at Hastings, and the
latter in London; and, in the meantime, they are
getting any quantity of free advertisement
Madame Maranette defeated Miss Myrtle Peek in
a ten-mile running race, changing horses at the
end of every mile, at Utica, N.YT, on 34th August#
It is charged that the loser could have won had
she desired to do so, and that it was with great


DOUBLE EVENT.
A.J.O. SUMMER CUP
AND
TATTERSALL’S CUP.
£50 to 5s.
A.J.C. SUMMER CUP, to be run at Randwlok,
26th December. One mile and a half.
TATTBRSALL'S CUP, to bo run at Randwlok,
1st January. Two Miles.
EDWARD - FERRY,
Tour Commission Agent,
Manchester Arms (two doors from Royal Hotel),
Georgre-street, Sydney.
Fin bst cigarettes, finest cigarettes
ARE
vanity pair vanity fair
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR,
Manufactured by W. 8. KIMBALL and CO.,
Rochester, U.8.A.
TATTERSALL’S CLUB
Registered under A J.O. Rules.
Annual Race Meeting,
RAND WICK RACE COURSE,
NEW YEAR’S DAY, 1884.
THE HURDLE RACE.
A handicap sweepstakes ofSsovs. each for starters,
with 100 so vs. added ; second horse 15 so vs.
from the prize. Distance 2 miles. Weights to
be declared on 27th December.
TATTERSALL’S FOAL STAKES
Of 7 sovs. each for starters, with 150 sovs, added
for then two-year-olds ; second horse 20 sovs.
from the prize. Plate of 50 sovs to be given to
the breeder of the winner. Colts, 8st. 71b •
Allies and geldings, 8st. 4lb. Distance, 5 fur-
longs. Entries closed.
TATTERSALL’S CLUB CUP
Of 500 sovs., and a sweepstakes of 10 sovs. each •
dHlhalf forfeit, or no liability if declared by 4p,m’
on Wednesday, 5th December, together with
a Cup, value 100 sovs., presented by Mr. M.
Deery; second horse to receive 50 sovs., and
third horse 20 sovs. from the prize. Distance,
2 miles. A winner of any handicap race after
the declaration of the weights of the value of
100 sovs. to mrry 31b. extra ; of the value of
200 sovs., 51b. extra: of the value of 500
sovs., 71b extra, non-accumulatlve. Weights
to be declared on or before Monday, 26th
November. Entries closed.
THE SELLING RACE
Of 200 sovs.; the winner to be sold by auction for
100 sovs.; weight for age. 71b. allowed on
each reduction of £25 on selling price down to
nil. Distance, 1 mile and a furlong.
THE TWO-YEAR-OLD SELLING RACE
Of 150 sovs., with a sweepstakes of 2 sovs. each
for starters added ; second horse, 20sovs. from
the prize Weights—colts, 8st. 31b.; Allies and
geldings, Sst. The winner to be sold by auc-
tion for £150 ; 101b- allowed on each reduction
of £50 on selling price down to £60. Distance,
6 furlongs.
THE NEW YEAR’S GIFT.
A handicap of 150 sovs.; second horse, 30 sovs.
from the prize. The winner of TattersaU’s
Cup to carry a penalty of 71b. Distance, 1U
mile. Weights to be declared on 27th Decem-
ber.
Day of General Entry (Foal Stakes and Tatter-
sail’s Cup excepted), Wednesday, 5th December,
before 4 p.m.
Entrance for each Race, One Sovereign.
A.J.C. Rules.
By Order.
JAMBS PERRY,
»tsr*t*ry XktttruUi’s Club, Sydney*
she kept her horse behind on the last
nine, time, 22min. 15sec....An ocean race has
been arranged to take place between the ship Ben
voirllch and the barque Ethiopian, both vessels
having loaded wool at Geelong for London. The
stakeofiSCaside has been lodged, and the race
win be decided by the time occupied between the
discharge of the pilot at Port Phillip Heads and
the receiving of the pilot off the English coast ...
Miss Johnstone, of England, wishes to swim one
mile against any other woman in the world for
cT 3 , or upwards —In a recent obstacle race in
England, the competitors bad to drain a bottle of
lemonade before commencing their journey .. An
English paper thinks that “ masher ” Sullivan will
not clear expenses should he pay his proposed
visit to the old country. ...An attempt to swim
from Rhyl to Llandudno, in Wales, a distance of
about sixteen miles, was recently made by B. J.
Keddish, for two years the champion of tha Mer-
sey. There was a slight breeze from the south-
east, and the tide was in favour of the swimmer.
Ihe first three miles were done in forty-eight
minutes. Reddish adopting the overhead stroke at
twenty-two to the minute. After covering about
twelve miles, tted' ish gave in, having remained
in the water for three hours twenty-two minutes
and six seconds. During the journey he com-
plained bitterly of the coldness of the water, and
hot coffee was administered to him as a stimulant.
Racing Considerations.
A bewildering “consideration” is the “in-and-out
running ” of racehorses during a meeting, or some-
times during one dav; and, as one of those racing
curios which are so hard of uuravelment, there is
the more reason why it should claim and receive
the most careful attention fr m stewards and
committees. The late Melbourne Cup meeting has
furnished its full quota of this undesirable element,
there having beenquite a “ fair to middling” aver-
age of performances that “ no fellow could under-
stand; and interested speculators, as well as the
on-looking many-headed, are justified in inquiring
whether ail such cases are sifted on the same prin-
ciple, and with equal impartiality. Of coursesuoh
an inquiry would be utterly useless and unpro-
fitable; and one might as well try to get at the
principle on which the V.K.C. committee selected
their witnesses in the nominal inquiry they held
into the Archie fiasco, or gauge the sense or its
antithesis of the conclusion and verdict that re-
sulted. Few people will be bold enough
to attempt a solution of these latter pro-
blems. Granted the honour and distinction
of being chosen to represent for twelve months
such an extensive and influential body as the
Victorian Racing Club, and given in the ‘impres-
sive” style of the chosen representatives while
occupying their official quarters at Flemington,
the conclusion forces itself on us that something
more than “style” is required when the morale
of the Australian turf, the character and honour
of horse-owners, and a bagatelle of eighty or a
hundred thousand pounds are the stakes which
hang upon the clear or cloudy summing up of the
magnates, who, for the time being, are auto-
cratic masters of the situation.
Most frequenters of large meetings during the
past few seasons can call to mind, without much
difficulty, cases of horses, Jockeys, and trainers, as
well as, I think, owners, being disqualified for long
or short periods, with other cases equally “daz-
zling” to the eye, which have been passed over
without remark: and it will be admitted as an
allowable “consideration,” what rule the “Su-
preme Turf Court” is governed by in such
matters, even if the anxious enquirer may “ blink”
at asking what social position or family antece-
dant whitewashes an ownerfromsuspicion, as also
if the pernicious proverb about “ hanging the dog
that has a bad name ” is set up among the
signalising code of Colonial Race Clubs. The
names of—well, we wont give names—can
be posed as in-and-out runners, some of
which have had a heavy hand laid on
them, while of others no notice has been
taken; and without mentioning names, which our
libel law makes an expensive amusement, it is
just abou" safe to say that in precisely parallel
cases courses directly opposite have been steered
by the authorities. Herein we find an all-sufficient
reason for want of confidence either in our racing
law or its expounders. It was remarked by many
spectators of the Flemington races, who, though
well skilled in turf-lore, had no pecuniary Interest
in what was going on, that the week afforded
several cases in which jockeys should have been
severely dealt with; but the stewards took no
notice, or, if they did “bark,” as they did at
Archie and his Derby, they only stultified them-
selves by their decision without a bite. By this
unintelligible dismissal of the complaint, and sub-
sequent cautioning of (as the stewards decided) an
innocent rider, a certain stopper has been put
upon whatever chance t here might otherwise have
been of finding out the “ how ” and the “ why ” of
Archie’s ignominious overthrow for the Blue
Riband, when he had still in him, unexpended, the
brilliant mlle-and-a-half he displayed throe days
later in the race for the Cup. Linda’s win in the
Free Handicap was foreshadowed by the position
the mare occupied In the first mile and three-
quarters of the Cup; and one could account for
Magnet having a host of friends when he started
for the Veteran Stakes; but the former running
during the meeting of Dukedom, Israelite, On
Colour, and Snaveller, led no one to expect of them
what they showed themselves capable of when
“good things were wanted of them ” on Thursday
and Saturday.
It would be treading on too delicate ground to
say that the committee were bound to hold inquiry
into the racing of all these horses, but at any rate,
if such a “ curiosity ” as the Archie Derby is
to be passed over as lightly as on the presem;
occasion, casualties of an apparently similar nature
will soon be the rule, instead of an infrequent ex-
ception. Owners of favourites may be placed in
the position of backing a certain loser for a smal
fortune, at the same time they are being robbed
of their good name; trainers and jockeys maybe
assailed by the most dangerous class of temptation
known to mortal men since the auri sacra fames
came into the world; and year by year fifty thou-
sand pounds or more may be extracted illegiti-
mately from the wagering “ public ” (who have no
chance given them to win) for the enrichment of
the Ring, or a section of it, whose profits on fair
business transactions are certain as well as largo
enough, if we may judge from the ever-increasing
members and prosperity of pencilling professors.
Meanwhile, to judge from recent events, the
V.R.C. committee, having established “dismissal
with a caution” as a wall of defence, behind
which they may safely defy Judges and law courts,
libels and slanders, as well as all and every other
action for damages, will sit quietly by, perfectly
careless as to who wins or who loses, so they
themselves rule the racing roast, and the world
of Flemington goes gaily around. This is
a very unsatisfactory state of things, even
to look at in the dim perspective of a
far-away future; and yet it is what must come
about without delay, if so little protection is
meted out to honest sportsmen by the rulers who
should regulate the largest transactions of the
Australian turf. The care with which animals
have their weights kept up in Flemington handi-
caps shows that “straight goers” like little Sar-
donyx are continually watched with a jealous eye;
and the number of handicaps we have seen won In
canters or walks, by animals that ran conspicu-
ously in the penultimate rank only a few days
before, tell their tale of the good things to be done
with a properly readied-up nandicap horse of the
outside persuasion. Allowing, as I do allow, that
Archie might not have won the Derby, his conduct
in the race showed clearly that something was
wrong somewhere : and the committee have
saddled all people surrounding the horse with a
gross injustice, from Mr. Smart, through Mr.
Forrester, to Baines and Huxley, which none of
them has the least chance to relieve himself of.
In the London Era, we see this ad.
“ Wanted a Man or Lady Fish to perform in own
tank.” There seems to be no rival of the ampni-
bious Atwood, who used to consume a hearty
luncheon in the water, and follow it up by smok-
ing a quiet pips under the same unfavourable con-
ditions.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Mr. Ross Raymond asserts that the mis-
sionaries at Hawaii went in more for raking in the
pool than spreading' the gospel, one smart servant
of the Looard having purchased 1000 acres with
100 testaments. That was his new Land Bill; ten
acres for a testament. Stuart and llobertson evi-
dently can’t touch the pious missionary on the
land question.
The sexton of St. Peter’s Church, Derby
(Eng.), found, a few Sundays back, that he was
run out of •’Communion” wine, so he slipped
round to the White Swan, while service was going
on, and bought a bottle of their “line old port
at 31s. per dozen; but, alas! the unholy errand
escaped not the lynx-like observation of Robert,
and the landlady and the sexton were mulct in
small fines. This prosecution has had a most
depressing effect upon the conscientious commu-
nicants, all of whom feel themselves mmally
guilty of taking “ drinks,” at the little pub. round
the corner during prohibited hours.
Again Ameiica has come to “the fore”
with a new religion. The Rev. Caleb Obeinsbain,
a Methodist minister in Illinois, received a call and
obeyed it. It led towards polygamy and free love,
but that did not deter him. The Rev. Rayburn,
another Methodist expounder, took a half-sh »re in
the concern, and named the company the “ Pilgrim
Band.” The “ Pilgrims ” are increasing daily. The
promoters have made sundry emendations in doc-
trine. Among others, Rayburn has been blas-
phemously substituted for the Saviour, so that
Christ is a Rock” is with them “Rayburn is a
Rock.” It is to Obeinshain that the majority < f
the visions come. They are mostly of a domestic
nature, and have already induced him to forsake
his wife and children, and take up with a
“spiritual” spouse who formerly followed the
useful occupation of kitchon-wench in a home for
fallen women.
A R.(\ paper, the Sydney Express, tells
us that in the forty years from 1840 to 1880, the
population of the United States increased 190 per
cent., and the Catholics (mostly Irish) in the same
country 810 per cent. Id forgot to tell us why the
Irish Catholics increased so. The fact is that be-
fore the potato failure of ’40, the stream of emi-
gration from Ireland was infinitesimal when com-
pared with the proportions it assumed after that
event. As the American per-centage of Catholics
increased, the Irish (In their own country) went
down, so that the “astonishing rate of 810 per
cent.’ —assuming it to be correct—is due neither
to fecundity nor conversion, but simply to whole-
sale expatriation. But there is another aspect of
the subject, which our religious friend keeps
severely out of sight. Suppose the Australian
rule, that none but good Catholics were entitled to
post-mortem sacerdotal attention, wore extended
to the United States, how many of the 810 per
cent, increase could look forward to burial in con-
secrated ground? If attendance at the Confes
sional ana at Mass be the tests of sound Catholicism,
not 5 per cent, o'' ’he adult male “ Romans ” in
the States have a t banco of getting beyond Purga-
tory, if they ever get so far.
The Wesleyan Church is in a bad way
in Australia of late. The intelligent section of the
clergy are deserting as fast as the seamen of a
Sueen’s ship on the Australian station. Mr.
sborne is only one of many. There are on the
Herald staff three, if not four, editorial writers
who were formerly Wesleyan clergymen, and who
now contribute to columns which are yearly
becoming more affected by the spirit of modern
Free Thought, a thing which is Anathema Mara-
natha to the profession. Then in Queensland the
Brisbane Telegraph has, or quite recently had,
a Wesleyan cleric on its staff. In the same colony
the Rev. E. C. James, one of eleven young parsons
imported only last year from England, has
resigned on the ground of want of sympathy with
the usages and discipline of Methodism. In
Western Australia, the Rev. T. C. Laurence, of
Perth, has “Jacked up,” considering that there is a
bettor opening for him as a lawyer—his former
?rofession— than as a cobbler of damaged souls,
n New Zealand there have been two deserters,
one in Otago and one in Dunedin, the Revs.
Martin and Gibson, both of whom go for the
broader liberty and better social standing of
Anglican divines..
The Sydney R.C. hierarchical organ, the
Express, thus “goes for” Dr. Martin Luther, for
whose memory, it remarks, political Protestantism
has been recently smitten with a reverential re-
gard:—“Dr. Martin was, in his day, the embodi-
ment of revolt, self-assertiveness, and free living.
It is not surprising that our local sectaries joined
in the fulsome eulogy of a man who stands con-
victed before the world of apostacy, sacrilegious
concubinage, and doctrines at variance with the
foundations of society. Why did not Dr. Kely-
naok expatiate on his idol’s idea in reference to
polygamy? It the oral biographer had read the
third chapter of dichelet’s ‘ Life of Luther,’ ho
would have found this conclusion to Dr Mar-
tin’s ‘ opinion ’ as to allowing the ‘ hot-headed ’
Landgrave of Hesse to take a second wife.
‘ If your Highness,’ the document states,
* is fully resolved to take a second wife, we
are of opinion that the marriage should
be secret. Given at Wittenberg, after the
festival of St. Nicholas, 1539.’ This precious
‘opinion’ is signed by Luther and eight of his
‘divines.’ Why did not the arch-apostate’s pane-
gyrists bring out the circumstances under which
Henry VIII., of England, obtained the title of
‘ Defender of the Faith ’ from the illustrious Loo
X., the last official act of that great Pope's lile.
The king had written a Latin treatise on the
Seven Sacraments, in which he refuted the errors
of Luther from Scripture, patristic writings, and
the unbroken, traditional belief of all Christian
churches, East and West, from the apostolic times.
We can well afford to smile at Protestant credulity
in recognising Luther as a saint, who while livin r
condemned ail the sects that were opposed to him,
and to the Inst believed in the Mass and oral Con-
fession of sins. The commemoration farce is
played out. the demonstration is ended, its lights
are extinguished, and its garlands faded.”
The M'Eachran was in buoyant fettle at
the meeting of the Presbyterian General Assem-
bly at Melbourne, on the 13th inst. He is not a bad
specimen of the militant divine. He believes in
himself, lot who will dissent. He believes he has
a hold of the right handle of the saving machine,
and that as he turns, the heavenly court pours
down grease. In answer to all the objurgation
that have been hurled at himself and his machine
lately, he simply lays to and “lies the louder.” The
swing of his voice carries something of the cadence
of oratory with it, though the accent is no cos-
mopolitan, and the diction is but indifferent
English. But his spirit is in huge earnest and his
eye is vocal, and he is as sure “ as eggs ” that the
devil is creeping into the fold where his saints are
penned. He believes that he Is the Collins-street
saviour, the modern George who is to vanquish
the Dragon, or Butler's Cobbler who stentorously
cries—
“ Those of you who tread awry,
I’m here to set you right;
1 can repair your leaky boots,
And underlay your solos;
Backsliders I can underprop,
And.patch up all your holes;”
or that he is all these in one. It is not his beauty
of features however, that makes our eyes rest
with pleasure—just a little pleasure—on him; nor
is it appreciation of his learning, or of his dialectic
skill; nor is it that we recognise any objective
truth in the system that he champ ons. We are
looking at Me Each ran for an altogether different
reason. We simply see in him a man who, rightly
or wrongly, has sworn to uphold certain things,
and who will stand by his oath even though every
hand in Melbourne were lifted against him. In our
era of playing with oaths, of explaining away
pledges, of surrounding our affirmations with
a web of subtle phrases, so that when profit or
popularity is in the wind wo shall bo able to show
that we were on the negative side all the time,
MoBaehran has one quality of the mastodon We
don’t want to search for other qualities. The old
Romans refused the honours of triumph to the
hero of a civil war. Antonlnu* got nothing for
defeating Catiline. MoEachran has been thumping
In his own camp.
• • •
Thus the Liberal : “ At the Domain meet-
ing Ninlan Melville said: ‘He had been taught
from his earliest days that freedom of speech In
discussing the actions of public men was the
heritage of Britons.’ Was it not this same lover
°f t ree dom of speech ’ who was Instrumental in
getting Lorando Jones condemned and imprisoned
for his freedom of speech In the Domain at Parra-
matta? But then Lorando was discussing the
actions of public men of thousands of years ago,
as set forth in Bible traditions, and that is where
some people draw the line, and step from freedom
to tyranny.”,.,Mr. Thomas Walker, whose religious
opinions are slightly latitudinarian, lectures at
Newcastle on “The Devils and the Gods.” His
views on this subject are pretty well known.
“ Can he obtain a building in that town ?" did we
hear you say. Why, bless you, the “Protestant
Hall has been placed at his disposal! The
“ heathen burial” of James Clark, the other day
at Forbes, has been explained. It was none of the
nurse's business, and the undertaker forgot to tell
the parson Miss Ada Campbell addressed a
meeting convened in Newcastle to form a branch
of the Secular Society there. Mr. Thomas Walker
and Mr. Easden followed her, and over thirty
names Avere recorded for membership. .“When
the brains are out, men die,” said Conway at his
lecture on Tuesday week “but it is not so with
the Churches.”—Parson Cray (C E., Townsville)
Is leaving for Scotland. He was one of the right
sort; knoAving a little about medicine he acted
gratis as doctor for any one who was sick, without
asking 'em If they knew their catechism. The
Townsvlllans gave him an inkstand, fifty sovs.,
and an address as a testimonial Among those
who took part in the late Luther demonstration was
the Hon. John Lucas, M.L.C. Luther “shook the
world,” and John shook the platform In his honour
. ..The Liberal thinks that “ReA r . Charles Strong
passed very pleasantly through his ordeal In Mel-
bourne. He Avill see the necessity, by and bye,
perhaps of devoting his life to good works ana
Freethought, and leaving the creeds to die of dry-
rot.” A Salvation Army is being run by
amateurs in Townsville to the accompaniment of
an opposition whistle and kerosene band.
• • •
A work, described as “a perfect gem ” and
“a terribly fascinating little book,” has been pub-
lished at florae. It is the first volume of the
“Vatican Library Series,” and is entitled “Hell.”
— At an auction, in a Western toAvn, of a late
Methodist minister’s bO”ks, &o„ a clerical pur-
chaser found himself In possession of about 100
manuscript sermons, all of Avhlch were carefully
annotated with “ stage directions " to secure effect.
These are specimens Contemplate ceiling in
attitude of adoration at this point;" “sarcastic
wave of hand;” “deliver this passage in solemn
tones;” “scornful smile after the word ‘ never';”
“ pause long enough to count twenty-five after
this passage:" “ close Bible with violent slam.”
Says General Booth of the “ Harrny ” :—“ What is
trade, and shop-keeping, and emigration, and
marriage, and money-making, and—and anything
else compared with this business of war?” What
about those bonds at 6 per cent., General ? And
that balance-sheet that Truth says no fellah can
understand? No money-making, of course; all
war, but a golden war-paint At the stations on
the Canadian Great Western Railroad the walls are
covered with the announcement“ Triumphant
parade, with mounted officers, and Hallelujah
Lassos with red jackets and tambourines. An all
night for Christians only, and those holding
excursion tickets.”
VARIOUS VERSES.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Missed.
A fairy alights on our path—
c, , what then ?
ohe shows us the charms she hath:
ttt ... But when
We fling out a hand,
And pray her to stand
Gutil we have made our profound genu-
flexions, she’s off from us, and
Sails to a foreign land.
Ah, money was ours one time,
TT , , If we
Had slung both rhythm and rhyme,
. , To be
A vole© to cry
In a prosaic lie—
And so we would, only we wanted to do the
last rites to our i-
Dea of earth and sky I
If a fairy alights on your path,
„ . We say
Go straight for all that she hath I
_ . Delay
We leave you to sigh.
And Money, when nigh.
If you wait to ease off your virtues and lln-
g’rlngly wish them good-bve,
Will spread Its pinions and flyl
His Purpose.
There was a certain Mr. Milver —
The only rhyme we know for silver—
There x vat, we say, for he is dead—
Dead as a door-nail, be it said—
Across the Styx his soul was ferried,
His body decently was buried.
What did he do 7 Ho ate and drank.
What more ? Put money in the Bank.
The end in life of Mr. Milver,
Was just to make a rhyme for silver.
Before you laugh at such an end,
Just ask yourself this thing, good friend,
How many are there (if no treason)
Whose lives have neither rhyme ner reason 7
The Toast.
Long life! long life! the revel reigns.
This is Life's feast: the surly ghost,
Old Time himself, shall drink the toast
While he can keep his legs—
Lol even as wo speak, Time drains
His sandglass to the dregs.
V.J.D.
The Old Story.
A laughing eye had Mary Ann
(My eye is laughing, too):
Now, I was Mary Ann’s “young man,”
And loved my darling true.
I bought her gloves and pretty things,
Which made her love increase;
I, also, bought her several rings,
At three-and-slx a piece.
I bought the little hoop of gold
(It was a splendid fit);
My Mary’s manner then grew eold
And chilly—just a bit.
She begged to have the wedding-day
Put off—“she had no dress;”
I grumbled at so much delay
(’Twae hard, you must confess).
She soothed me with a playful slap,
Aud sat upon my knee;
Next week she found another chap
(She fairly humbugged me),—
And wrote, “ Dear William, you are sold—
You must not feel concerned;
I’m wedded with your hoop of gold,
The cheap rings I’ve returned,
Triolets.
HER GLANCES.
Your glances who would fear
Were poison-pointed lances ?
So soft your eyes, and clear,
Your glances who would fear 7
Yet there is one, my dear—
Ah, dead his poor romance is—
Your glances who would fear
Were poison-pointed lances.
LOVE THE FOE.
Very certain were we
That blind Love was our foe.
Should we fight him or flee 7
Very certain were we
We should fight: low laughed he,
And—well, sweetheart, not so
Very certain were we
That blind Love was our foe.
GLORY CALLED HIM.
“ Glory calls me—I must gol”
Said the lover to his lady:
Noble words were these, I trow,
*• Glory calls me—I must go.”
Back he came: another beau
Toying with her tresses shady:
“ Glory calls me—I must gol”
Said the lover to his lady.
LOVE, THE MUSIC-MASTER.
Since ever time began,
Love was the music-master;
His harp the heart of man
Since ever time began.
Come, kiss me, Charmlan,
Time flies, but Love flies faster!
Since ever time began
Love was the music-master.
HELEN.
Helen is gonel
Where is the sun-light ?
My sun has shone:
Helen is gone.
Light comes with dawn—
I had but one light:
Helen is gonel
Where is the sun-light 7
V.J.D.


Jjl UKNITUBE SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
Hall furniture, hatstands,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
T IBRARY FURNTTURE, CENTRA and SIDE
JLi TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES.
BEADING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
Inspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Furniture— the largest stock in
THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB. O’OonneU-etreet.
ARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOMB STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, Ac.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
_ , 1th 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for singfo
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’OonaeU streets, Sydney.
E 1
IGHT-POITND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY,
NBwTON, and LAMB, O’Oonnell-street.
FURNITURE.— Whatnots, from 30s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, frara 36a; Chests Drawers, from Jfls; Wash-
stands, from 10s8d: Tables, from7s8d: Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20a; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 25s; Cedar Sideboards, from 78a;
Eltofaen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
from 7s 8d. BRAD-
streots, Sydney.'
i LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
80s.
BRADLEY
NEWTON,
and LAMB,
SYDNEY.
MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion*
V/ able designs In Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 85s, BRADLEY, NBWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished In
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, Ac.,
f'lHIFFO NNIBR WHATNOTS, effective designs,
V_y just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Oonnell-street.
T71ASY OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, for
ID DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection Invited.
T^RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—
JLI A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and Inex-
pensive.
mOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
GLASS and WASHSTANfi)
i with swing
marble top, 80s the pair.
EXTENDING DINING TABLE, with patent
screw and two leaves: LARGE PIER GLASS,
COUCH, GENT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 0 CHAIRS, covered In Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
D
INTNQ TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 6 feet long and up to 20 feet.
JARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Ormolu.
VERY ELEGANT Items for Drawing-room.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered In
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
T71RAMBW0RK for DINING-ROOM FUBNI-
JD TUBE, Handsome and Massive, In Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
EDStEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
SBDDING — All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NBWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
■street.
WA8H8TANDS, with marble, 26s each. BRAD-
LEY, NBWTON, and LAMB.
ARDEN
IjT INDIAN
LEY, NHWTO
SEATS, 30s; Verandah Chairs,
IAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
ON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
► BNTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
I Assortment; best make, lov est prices.
"\FFIOE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
J Chairs, Stools, Desks, Iron Safes (all sizes)
radley, Newton, and Lamb, O’OonneU-etreet.
CE CHESTS, all sizes, very superior make. Ex*
amine before purchasing BRADLEY, NEW-
and LAMB,
COMMODE
Spring and O’Connell streets.
BIDETS with” pan:
_ SHAVING STANDS. Bradley, Nswton, and
imb.
rAPANBSE BLINDS, for Verandahs, 8 xj, Usj
’9x8,13s; 10 x 8,14s. BRADLEY, NBWTON,
id LAMB.
1TEINWAY NEW Y(5RK PIANOS, the FINEST
k in the world. A SHIPMENT Just landed.
" IPP’S CELEBRATED P I A Q g
BRADLEY, NBWTON, and LAMB
have received
another LARGE SHIPMENT
. LIPP and SONS’ celebrated PIANOFORTES
root from the Makers, oomprislngTALaj
RANDS, LITTLE UPRIGHT ORANDB. BA-
OON GRANDS, VERY HANDSOME and of tn«
IGHEST CLASS FINISH, •
WALNUT and BLACK GOLD.
WE HAVE NOW THE LARGEST STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA OF
LIPP’S PIANOS
TO SELECT FROM.
WE INVITE INSPECTION.
FOB PRIVATE SALE AT EXTREMELY LO«-
P RICKS.
BRADLEY, NBWTON, and LAMB,
Pianoforte Importers,
O’OonnsU and Spring si
SOCIAL.
The reception held on Thursday last by
Lady Augustus Loftus at Government House was
numerously attended, and the crush to write
names in the Visitors’ Book was great. The after-
noon being warm, was a pleasant change from the
late unsettled weather, and afforded an oppor-
tunity to many ladles of appearing in light and
summery raiment. There were some dark cos-
tumes, but pale colours predominated, particu-
larly pinks and blue; a cheeked sflk of the latter
shade looked well on a young lady of a very nice
figure. A little brunette in pale pink cashmere
was admired. The fashionable redingotes were
almost universal; they have a most stylish effect
when not too long. Dresses are more and more
puffed and bunched out every day: indeed, they
are increasing in size to such an extent as to fore-
shadow that horrid and ungraceful abomination—
crinoline. Such a “ consummation is devoutly not
to be wished.” In moderation, the new stylo (or,
rather, the revived one) is decidedly an improve-
ment on the tight, narrow garments of a year ago;
but there is a limit to everything, which the rltra-
fashionables often forget. One of the prettiest
dresses on Thursday was a creamy Indian muslin,
beautifully trimmed with soft lace, and countless
knots of dark red ribbon ; another, of pale blue
nun’s veiling embroidered in silk with wheat ears
was becoming to the wearer, a tall blonde. A pink
flowered Watteau sateen, and a white China silk,
wore noticeably elegant, also a checked eau de Nil
zephyr cloth, a white cambric with immense blue
sash, and a Solferino pink muslin. Lady Augustus
wore a very handsome dark green embossed satin
combined with ottoman silk. Among those pre-
sent were Sir P. Jennings and Lady Jennings,
Colonel Roberts, Hon, G. Bagar and Miss Eagar, the
Misses Stephen, Lady Hay. Hon, 6. R, Dlbbs and
daughter, Mr. Critchett Walker, the Mayoress,
Miss B. Burdett Smith, and others. Two garden
parties take place shortly at Government House,
and there are whispers of a ball to be given during
the visit of Lord and Lady Rosebery, which is
good news for the young folks.
• • *
On© of the largest open “ hoots ” of the
Petersham Owls was that of last week, when the
concert lasted two hours, and the dancing two.
too. The president occupied the chair, ana most
of the table—a small portion of the latter being
apparently dedicated to the elbow of Mr. Wood,
who sat with a bright but deferential smile on his
face at the president’s left, to see that everything
went right. Most of the singers seemed to have
brought their own accompanists with them, and
the hoot was marked by the number of young
performers who are coming out—such oppor-
tunities being very good ones. A young lady
whose successes have hitherto been mostly
achieved on the polished floor, made her Owl
debut in a serenade, charmingly sung In a sweet
clear voice. Miss Whomos played “ Where the bee
sucks,” spiritedly ; and pleasant-voiced Harry
Pier earned hearty applause by his silvery
song “ Good-night, beloved.” The smile that
permanently occupies Mr. Joseph Bradley’s
features never deserted him while reciting
the tragic tale of ‘‘The Quaker and the
Highwayman:” but a modern young man like
Mr. B. might surely have served up something
newer. Highwaymen don’t cross the lonely heath
now, as they used to. Now, a dirge for the late
Mr. Kelly, or something about a glove contest,
would have been really Interesting, and would
have shown that Mr. Bradley keeps up in the
march of Intellect. The gem of the evening was
certainly Mr. Ben. Palmer s recitation, “ TheShip-
wrecked Crew,” given with hardly a flaw and with
true expression. Other items were two good songs
by Mr. Frank Brewer. “Alice” by Mr. Jefferson,
a zither tune, etc. At ten o’clock chairs were
removed, and ten dances were done by midnight,
when the party broke up. Petersham, Leichhardt,
and Surry Hills sent three light little dancers, and
the room afforded many glimpses of fascinating
toilets, the pink dross and daisies of a blonde being
very artistic.
• • •
Of all the inflictions of modern folly, none
is more insipidly painful than “Afternoon Tea.”
If the tea gave an opportunity for a friendly, easy
chat, there might bo some reason in it. Some-
times it is for ladles only ; and then the sight is
presented of some dozen or two females sitting up
gravely in starched precision on chairs, hardly
daring to raise their voices above a whisper for
fear of being unladylike, and each endeavouring
with all her might (if endeavour is needed) to
make all she does say as inane as possible, and
eking out with slow despair the one wafer slice of
bread and butter and tiny morsel of cake, which
she is expected to toy with, till the purgatory is at
an end. When men are Invited, the whole affair
becomes one of the most fearful punishments to
which any trouser-wearing being with a trace of
the male gender in him could be subjected.
The shyest of school-girls would be more at
ease than an ordinary man so utterly out
of place. Only the carefully assumed mask of
conventional humbug which society expects
ladies to wear could render the Tea tolerable even
to themselves. We sat in a stuffy drawing-room
(says a lady) of quite a.fashionable Tea lately, each
in her appointed chair—a whole army of what
newspapers call the “ fair sex.” We breathed an
air of suffocating politeness; we laboured under a
restraint, a pitiav le shyness from which there was
no escape. If only some one would choke over
her tea, or faint, or dare to laugh aloud, just to
break the awful stiffness! Scalding tea, weak
music, vapid talk. And the men, where are they?
After a hunt, we discover two seedy specimens,
advanced in years, and well married. Not count-
ing, of course, the parson At last, blessed chance 1
a young officer is announced; our hearts bent as
he came in. Then they fell. Wo had to look quite
near the ground to see him at all. We sat through
solos, we suffered duets and wo sipped our tea, in
gloom. But all things must havean end. Solemnly,
each one takes leave, taking care to thank the hos-
tess fora “ pleasant afternoon." If this is pleasure,
give me pain.
* ♦ ♦
Tattersall’s Hall was again quite full at
the Owl’s Hyginx last week, and Mr. President
Caddy took the perch of honour. It would be
very pleasing if everyone else could be as punctual
as some of the officers of the club always are. A
varied two hours was spent, and the items in-
cluded a duet by Messrs. Huenerbeln, conjuring
by “Mopoke.” a comic aesthetic ditty cleverly
givenjjy “ Snipe/’ who is humanly known as Mr.
Sydney Davis, “ Creation's Hymn” sweetly trilled
by Mrs. Caddy, trio from “ William Tell ” by
“Humming Bird” and two pretty sisters, Mdme.
Marius' French Romance, “The Raft” by Mr. T.
Ualnford, ‘ Smile and bid me live” by “Bull-
finch,’’ a comic by “Shrike,” violin Herr Francik,
“ Poor Wandering One ” sung to her own accom-
paniment by a clever little piece of self-possession
from Davy-street, Mr. J, H. Ralnford s “ Little
Jim,” Herr Yon Bentzen’s airs on the zither—
which were ineffably sweet—“I’m a Roamer” by
the great Hallewell, “Alice” by “Yellowham-
mer, ’ who seems to have a weakness for her, and
“Life,” a solemn solo by "Sheldrake,” &c. Mr.
Dumpier, the tragedian, sent his picture. A few
minutes sufficed to transfer chairs to the large
supper room, where a fine “spread” included
everything in reason and in season, aud after a
busy interval dancing began. “ Humming Bird.”
“Lyre,” and other volunteers played lovely
waltzes and other dances till they finished the pro-
gramme and ran a good bit over the end of It, so
that 3 o’clock oamo ere the Hyglnx was concluded.
The whole affair was managed very well, and no
one objected to the Cinderella hour being- a
little extended, with such a good floor and com-
pany. As for dresses, they were prettier than
ever. One was as nice as art and care
could make It—fawn brochd and satin of the most
delicate tint, with coat ends, and lightly trimmed
with narrow velvet ribbons of peacock green. A
fair girl, who danced better than a chip fir a wind,
came from Paddington In cream veiling and straw-
berry ribbons; and two dark Hebrew sisters wore
excellently studied toilets of black velvet and
laoe. lightened with flowers. A harmony of
brightness was shown In a dress of lavender
brooh*, with orange trimming drawn from
shoulders to waist in front of bodice. From Dar-
llnghurst, in pompadour, came two daughters of
one of the earliest skirmishers In the anti-theo-
loglcal field; and a tall, handsome young lady
wore blue silk and white, dovetailed across the
front skirt with some degree of originality. Two
substantial young ladles appeared of aerial light-
ness in their nice white robes and wreaths ; bright
cardinal and cream garbed a good partner from
Moore Park: a smoky cashmere decked a dashing
brunette; a handsome girl, wore black silk a good
deal out away, and snowy tulle skirt; and a dove-
coloured silk and cardinal had such a train that it
was nearly as good as a platform, i.e. handy to
stand on.
• • ■
A lady’s darling, who came with his curly
hat from London, while admitting on Flemlngton
lawn that Colonial girls “dwess well and don’t
ovahdo it,” thus unbosomed himself about the
dwess of the loss Important sex:—“ They dwess
vewy badly. They are clothed pwetty well, but
they don’t seem to undahstand dwess, you know.
Why, you could count the decent hat-bwlms heah
on your llngahs. Then there are their coats; made
wight enough by tallahs, but they’ve nevah been
thought out by the weawahs. There’s not half-a-
doien heah who have twled to expwess themselves
by their coats. Now, If two men weally undah-
stood dwess, and one saw the othah’s glove, he
could at once say, * That’s Bwown’s glove. I never
saw him weah It, but It must be Bwown's.’ The
sjplwlt, and taste and feeling of Bwown would In-
dividualise the glove. Vlotorwlan men don’t seem
to dweam of expwessing their Individuality by
their gloves, or trousers, and things. Now, there s
a fwiend of mine at home, young veah-Woblnson.
Well, If I were to meet with his cane or eyeglass,
the smallest article he had weally thought out, and
worn, and made a part of himself, I could con-
stwuct Veah-Wobinson complete fwom It. This
is to be a gweai dwesser, and it is as ■ware as a
Sweat poet?’ We don’t know that the colony need
espond because “gweat dwessers” are “ware.”
At any rate, when we want them badly, we can
easily get a few soft-wood walking sticks and
constwuot them on the Veah-Wobinson plan.
• • •
If ever there is glory In a marriage,
happy must be that young lady who can manage
to consummate the great event while her father Is
Lord Mayor of London. She Is, indeed, suffused
in splendour. To say nothing of the sumptuous
presents which pour upon her from aldermen,
councillors, and officials, there is in the ceremony
Itself, performed by the Archbishop in one of the
most historical buildings in Christendom, a
pomp that many Princesses would envy. Only
three marriages have taken place in St. Paul's for
135 years. One was that of the daughter of a
former Lord Mayor; the second, of a daughter of
the Dean of the Cathedral; the third, that of Miss
Ada Knight, daughter of the present Lord Mayor
of London, to Mr. Aitkens. It is a very rare
ceremony. Either the Lord Mayors don’t seem to
have daughters, or the daughters don’t seem to
get married. But if, as is said, fully one-third of
the Lord Mayors of London since the time of
James I. have been bachelors, perhaps the scarcity
of marriageable young ladles In their families is
hardly a matter for fair comment At Miss
Knight’s wedding the vast Cathedral was crowded
with all the gorgeousness of costume that might
be expected from the wealth of London; only
ladles in front. The bride wore white satin, long
train, and brocade tabller; the bodice high and
perfectly plain. Ten bridesmaids wore white
brocade, walking length, and waterfall backs. Two
were children-now such a regular appendage of
the wedding procession that a modern bride could
scarcely think herself legally married without
them. And the Lord Mayor’s invitations to the
Mansion House ball at night were to “ all fathers
and mothers of his acquaintance, with their sons
and daughters over sixteen years of age.”
♦ * •
Next month, the Juvenile Exhibition at
Parramatta will be the great social tryst. There
will probably be special trains. The building is in
the Park, and close to the Park platform, beauti-
fully situated as to scenery, and with towers and
steam lift* for visitors. There will be concerts,
performances, literary and other competitions of
all kinds amcng the juvenile exhibitors. Crlpps
and Newllng cater, and (Duong Tart will bar# a
drawing-room. All sorts of shows and amusements
on the lawns and terraces outside will combine to
make quite a Christmas Fair. R. D. Bannister Is
general manager, and Dr. C. B. Rowling the secre-
tary. The “ Messiah ” on Christmas night. The
Exhibition will hare gas laid on, and will be open
at least six weeks.
• • •
On the 13th inst., an interesting wedding
caused a ripple of excitement In lively Liverpool.
At the old ohuroh of St. Luke, the Rev. A. L.
Williams Joined unto Mr. John T. Steel, Miss Mar-
garet Jane Ashcroft, youngest daughter of an old
townsman, and sister of the present Mayor. The
present Mrs. Steel was at the ceremony, dressed In
while satin and lace, and was attended by seven
maids, in cream and pink, cream and garnet, and
Saraet satin respectively. Breakfast In the Town
[all, and train to Moss vale In the evening,
t * •
At the Town Hall, Newtown, Mrs. J. J.
Ryan gave a concert to a fair audience on Monday
night. Mrs. Ryan’s solos were a waltz song, “ L’Hs-
tash” and “The Woodman's Call; ” and, with Mr
T. H. Rainford, she sang in the “Fairy Wand”
duet. Messrs. Rainford and Julian Harper each
sang solos; and “Sainted Mother,” by Mrs. Ryan
and a lady pupil, was a good duet. Mr. F. Croft
accompanied.
• • •
Lord and Laay Rosebery, who arrived on
Saturday, in the ’Frisco steamer Zealandla, have
been losing no time in travelling round, and the
Earl has discreetly expressed himself “highly
delighter ” with everything. They stay at Govern-
ment House.
• •
A very enjoyable moonlight party was
held on Tuesday, 13th Instant, at the Avenue, Lane
Cove River. Special steamers were engaged to
convoy the party, numbering about two hundred,
to the scene, and all were kept busy getting
through the programme of danoes till after mid-
night. The oool fresh air, gay Chinese lanterns,
and the sweet romance engendered in youthful
breasts by the sheen of the golden moon, combined
to put all In the best spirits. Messrs. Mitchell and
O’Brien, as secretary and treasurer, carried out the
management carefully, and it is Intended to hold
another soon.
» * « *■
Hospital ball happened at Wellington on
the »tn; musle by volunteers. Miss Hleronlmus
playing beautifully. Pew fancy costumes pre-
sent, but plenty of good dancers and enjoyment...
Same day, the Sons of Temperance at Mount
M’Donald had a picnic, which would have been
glorious if the Sons hadn’t wanted to spend in
something stronger than ginger-beer the money
which the Daughters had worn out their boots in
collecting. ...Thursday night last, the orleket club
of the P. F. and Ice Co. took dinner at Callaghan’s.
They hope to meat again A pleasant ball,
though small, was held In Oootamundra Assembly
Hall recently, when Mrs. Angove catered, angove
great satisfaction. Fair one from Cooper-street
was the white belle....William Fltsstubbs, old
Maoleay resident, has sought the great secret.
James Naples, a Bega man. Tor forty years a great
horseman, have been overtaken at last by the pale
horse Some pleasant dances are given now and
then by the Maitland Private Assembly —To-
morrow (Friday) night, a complimentary ball will
be given by gentlemen members of the Woollahra
Private Assembly to the committee who carried
out the Assemblies. It will be at Nithsdale, and is
Intended to bo thoroughly nice. ..Oootamundra
had a bazaar for Wesleyan Church a few days ago,
in Rosen’s Hall, which was so crowded and hot as
to convey a very suggestive warning to th' se who
wouldn’t give... Tamworth Hospital bazaar was
open eight days and nights; gross proceeds, £653.
But tv e want to hear the nett— A new musical
light in London is Miss Myra Marbron, late of
Nelson, N.Z., who has just finished a ballad highly
commended by Sir Julius Benedict; also a comic
opera, to be performed in the Strand, Her nom is
“ Noretta.” Mr. Bolara remains in the Civil ser-
vice of Victoria—too bright a gem to lose—
The 13th annual dinner of the Engineering Asso-
ciation took place on Saturday at the Town Hall;
half a hundred present.. .Fancy Fair at Windsor
a great boom; loot, £400. ...An organ recital was
given by Mr. Rea at the University on Saturday
Lady and Sir William De Vceux (Governor of Fiji)
are at Pfahlert’s Large and fashionable dance
was given by Mr. and Mrs. J. 8. Mitchell, of
Eatham, Darling Point, on Tuesday evening....
One time, belles used to carry everything before
them. Now, they seem to carry everything be-
hind them The well-known basso singer,
Harry Gordon Gooch, comes over from New
Zealand to live in Melbourne next month —
On the 14th, Mr. J. R. Strickland, of Bundaburra,
was married to Miss Ellen Agnes, youngest daugh-
ter of the late Mr. John Shaw, Forbes. 8t. John’s
For continuation of Social, next page.
* Several members of the N.S.W. Assembly assert that they are at present maintaining
a position of * armed neutrality.' ”


Thus a correspondent:—“North Queens-
land readers will recollect the murder of poor
Cosen and his wife by the blacks, some nine years
ago. Cosen was one of the Darling pioneers, but
latterly had squatted down on a little selection
between the Lower Herbert and Cardwell, some
fourteen miles from the latter place. He and his
wife had always shown the greatest kindness to
the blacks, but as gratitude is an unknown virtue
amongst the aboriginals, they not only murdered
but ate the unfortunate couple. On the first
report reaching Cardwell, a spring cart was des-
Eatched with a coffin to enclose the remains. This,
owever, proved superfluous, for the corpses
were already safely stowed away in the “ binglee ”
of the murderers, and as the road to Cardwell was
one of the worst, and the demand for second-hand
coffins limited, the shell was laft in the now aban-
doned hut. Some time aftc*, we were travelling
this track, and made the hut at sundown, and
on entering we were rather startled to see a
coffin, but naving heard the particulars of the
murder, we knew it hadn’t been used, and,
as the night was cold, it struck us it would be
an A1 place to camp in, for which purpose we
pulled it over near the fire. Very soon after supper
our dog commenced barking, and just then wo
heard a “coo-ee” which experience told us pro-
ceeded from a white-fellow. Thinking we would
have a joke, we jumped into the coffin as the be-
nighted traveller came to the door, where Jack
(one of our mates) met him with the salutation,
and in a most sepulchral voice asked “ Did anyone
see you coming?” at the same time edging beck
and keeping between the traveller and the coffin.
Again Jack said, in a still more awful voice, “ Did
anyone see you coming ? ” At this moment he
moved to the one side, and the eye of the much-
bewildered traveller—who couldn’t make out what
was up—resting on the coffin and the dead or mur-
dered body, as he supposed, be lost his presence of
mind, and with the most unearthly yell we ever
heard he bounded out of the door and into the
darkness, and (as Jack says when telling the story
oven now) he thinks he is running yet.
Tekpbichorean.—One of the neatest ball
or assembly rooms in the city is doubtless what is
known as the Oddfellows’ Hall, Sussex-street,
situated between Goulburn-street and the Hay-
market. It is the property of Mr. Charles H. Hail,
whose strict and capable management shows how
not only a property, but also a neighbourhord may
be improved, and what was once a deserted spot
may be turned into a place of public and fashion-
able resort. Just recently the whole place has
undergone costly and extensive alterations and
decorations, the latter work being carried out
by Messrs. Palmer and Weekes in a style
that surpasses anything of the kind pre-
viously done in the city. The hall has a splendid
floor, with a superficial area of near upon
3200 feet, with extensive means of ventilation.
The effort of the decorative artiste has been to
impart a bright and cheerful aspect to the hall,
and certainly they have succeeded. The walls
and roof, the latter being dome-shaped, are divided
into panels, each with either floral or figure
embellishments of a superior style, the work
throughout being a study. The ladles’ and
gentlemen’s drawing and retiring - rooms at-
tached to the hotel are similarly renovated,
and the whole work appears to have been
carried out to show the capabilities of Messrs.
Palmer and Weekes’ establishment. There’s no
reason why this splendid decorative style should
not be adopted for the ballrooms ana galleries
attached to our better class of private residences
in and about Sydney. A visit to the hall would
not be amiss to anyone contemplating such deco-
rations. The proprietor, a few evenings ago, after
completion of the renovated work, opened the
hall with a ball given to his friends, and about 100
couples were present, all of whom expressed
delight at the treat. With the exception of class
(Thursday) evening, the hall is for engagement at
any time. A first-class band has been engaged in
connection with the hall, so that, in this Important
particular as well, the proprietor has exhibited
enterprise certain to be appreciated.*
HORDERNS
ON THE
IBriclstield. HUL
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS in LAGE CURTAINS.
J3?” These Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers
LACE CURTAINS, lOO PRICES.
C +i, untr ?* can *J? V © • forwar(1( ' f] 1)0 the nearest Railway Station, Free of Charge, a Set of Lace
Curtains. If you like the pattern which is represented in this engraving, cut it out, and we will forward exactly
tB© same pattern. See future advertisements for other patterns.
LACE CURTAILS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS,
Irish Linen Table Damasks : to match the Curtains. Table Napkins. Linen Diapers. Embroidered Table Covers
Mosquito Nets. Striped and Plain Window Union. S3T Examine carefully the engraving- of our
“LACE CURTAINS.” g
M
m
k
►
'me
► ”
► :
<
► .
’ <
m
■:<
HK
►
m
► 3
► :
ai
2*j»
r
raws';
♦ .’?■ '♦' '♦' *♦
taiybdykrfMHAdMI
Price : 12s. 6d., 16s., 17s. 6d. the pair.
ONE ONLY ADDRESS:—
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS,
| LACE CURTAINS | 668 BRICKFIELD HILL. i'Iace cdbtainb i
VAN' Patterns and Price Tdsts of Goods forwarded on application.
bm?rno d ThA f £r start for Mel-
Vr T^P e^W0wllar9 ful. operation,
?™*i burst L M° zart ”) is musical director,
3mp °® e< * » P'ace with the nice title-
are , Mar ° tl ; • • • Small social splashes
■nnf in n^K 0ddfel 4°T. 8 baU at Forbes, 60 pre-
ok ° 3b * r S e Hall; Promenade oenoert and
® h °£ at . Be f a : food ball at Gymple; Slngle-
nd °*oaod the season with a ball and
nVioi 6 !’ P? aven t. bazaar ft t Windsor: mechanics’
piain and fancy ball at West Maitland, on the 15th
l Qrr £ 00d y A Rookaampton
flrl (Miss Katie, daughter of Mr. J, Ferguson,
in?5L 1 p f lze glven b ? the Girls? Own
vaphr, in London, for essay on Lady Jane Grey,
he w prM Tuesday was the
birthday of the Queen of Italy. The snips of war
M B^v.?r^ Ve n' er < l dr ?5 8Gd w ith flags in honour of
barite. On the Oarracclola there were spe-
Sydney Bachelor’s Ball, to
close the season, was held in their room, Royal
Arcade, on Monday night, and was a very enjoy-
able affair, and reflects great credit on the gentle-
™®p entrusted with the arrangements, Messrs.
,P9 u 4 rt ’ J’hdjth, and Wallace. Members
and invited friends to the number of about 30
fP, u .Pies assembled, to do the light fantastic, and
If the handsome dresses and charming faces of the
ladles present have any Influence, we think there
will be very few bachelors to answer the roll call
next season.
-—
. „ __ Sydney, 30th November.
. i'® Aa Belle,—There were a few novelties among
the toilettes worn at Lady Loftus’s reception. As
a specimen of extreme simplicity, I give you the
dress of the wife of one of our District Court
Judges. A flowered sateen (the pattern, wine
colour) dress, China silk dust cloak of the usual
yellowish hue, made dolman fashion, and small
straw bonnet with crimson flowers and strings-
cream lace sunshade. There is to be an At Home
?L G S )vern S aent House on the 24th, and one on the
1st December, at which, no doubt, the Countess of
Rosebery will be present; and I expect some
elegant toilettes, and all the newest ideas in
bonnets, will make their appearance then.
T 9 ret seats in the dress-circle without having
booked them beforehand, is quite an Impossibility
at the Royal. I noticed a beautiful dress of white
silk one evening last week there, worn by a pretty
dark-haired girl. Jit was made without sleeves, but
rir f®. throat. A. young lady (who wai one of
the brightest assistants at Government House
bazaar), with the Innes party on this evening,
iooked very nice In a simple black dress, with
white lace at the throat. One of the most notice-
able dresses was of a deep shade of rose pink satin.
A pale blue satin was pretty, and black satin and
brooaes were numerous. A very young girl In a
white flounced muslin with blue sash, blue silk
stookins’s, and satin shoes of same colour, was so ex-
tensively crinolined as to resemble a small balloon
A stage box occupied by Mr. Oarr-Boyd, the ex-
plorer, attended by a black boy, whose white eye-
balls, gleaming In the darkness of the box, had a
very funny effect, attracted a great deal of atten-
tion from the stage on Friday evening. Mr. Oarr-
Boyd threw several small bouquets to Miss Nellie
Stewart, who fastened them In the front of her
dress. Mr. Howard Vernon’s best solo lost a good
deal of the attention It deserved, through the pre-
sence of the explorer’s party. One of the greatest
treats In store for Sydneyites Is to hear Mr. Boyd,
who Is quite a musical genius, play a solo on a
gum-leaf.
On the Block, I saw an exceedingly fanciful dust
cloak last week. It was of China silk, cream
ground, with a pattern of coloured flowers ; a
white silk cord and tassels were fastened at the
back of the neck, and loops of blue and cardinal
ribbons adorned the sleeves. A very pretty pink
bonnet was worn with It, and the cloak was open
In front, showing a white lawn dress beneath.
Some Summer dresses are being made with
pointed bodice, a sash of ribbon brought round
the waist, and fastened In a knot, with loops, be-
low the bodice point. A great deal of lace is to be
used for edging flounces and trimming. Red-
Ingotes are worn even In zephyr cloths, and wash-
ing materials, but they are not suitable for such
fabrics. Ribbons hanging from the throat to the
bottom of the dress are seen occasionally. All the
fashionable sunshades have the handles formed
In a ring, like a bangle. A few gentlemen have
ventured to appear with waistcoats of white satin
for evening dress. Many girls wear gossamer veils
over the face and head going to the Opera, when
they have to travel in dusty tram-cars. I wish
some one would suggest to the authorities to have
blinds put in the windows of the cars. In Summer
it is fearful to have the sun scorching one’s face.
A lady lately complained of the seats never being
dusted. This is quite true, and I have known
several pretty Summer dresses ruined from the
marks given them.
Last week we went to see what the Scientific
Dress-cutting Association was like, carried on by a
Mr. Ritchie and two daughters. All the new ideas
seem to be Yankee notions, but the agents have
brought the system from England. They sell
what they call their “system,” which consists of
a set of diagrams in pasteboard, with printed
directions for use, and a scale marked thereon, also
a small instrument for tracing, for two pounds
five. Classes are held for instruction in using the
apparatus free of charge, either at 143 Pitt-street,
or the houses of pupils. I know of several young
ladies, enthusiastic on this new idea, who have
joined the classes.
Ladles are going In crowds to consult “ Mrs. Dr.
Potts,” and the outside of the Clarendon Hotel is
covered with flaming advertisements. Another
American idea, I suppose. Now good-bye.
Yours,
MAB.
There’s good news for the N". S. Wales
colonists, who sigh for decorations. The follow-
ing orders are in the market, and can be obtained
by anyone, on producing his birth certificate,
backed up with affidavits from two respectable
persons, that he has never been in Parliament, or
employed as a returning officer at a Western
Queensland election
Cross of the Republic of San Marino £100
Order of Isabella of Spain 180
Order of Charles III. of Spain 180
Cross of Commander of the Order of Christ
(Portugal) 180
Order of the Lion and Sun of Persia 160
Order of the Mejldleh 180
Order of Bolivar (Venezuela) 160
Order of the Duchy of Saxe-Goburg-Gotha 180
In Australia, men are hounded out of the
Church for hugging too closely the attractive
coast of heterodoxy. In America, things are
different. There It la not so much a question of
doctrine as of manners. A Baptist minister In
New York had to resign recently, because “once,
while riding in a street oar, he sharply rebuked
two men who were smoking cigars: that ho wore
a flannel shirt at a watering-place; that he put his
food in his mouth with his knife instead of his
fork; that he was seen sitting on a sofa with his
wife, both eating from the same banana." Had it
been another man’s wife with whom he had been
sharing the banana, or had he been taught in his
youth that green peas should not be shovelled in
with a knife, he might have remained undisturbed
while venting opinions as perilous as those of the
Rev. Mr. Strong.
The true story of Madagascar Shaw is
coming to the front in driblets. His French
keepers gave him inferior claret for chateau
Margot, and susoiclous coffee for real Mocha,
rlus went on till he made advances to the cook
and obtained mashed turnips and potatoes. As his
friends, the Hovas, and not his enemies, the
t rench, looted his house, it is suggested that they
cay the Indemnity just as the Egyptians have to
cay for the damage to property resulting from
)ur knocking Alexandria out of shape. The ques-
tion is thus whittled down to one of compensation
or being detained for a few days on a French war
re«el. we have lived on French men-of-war, and
?nr private opinion is that, if “ common ” sailors’
was not good enough for a proselytising
nlsslonary, mortifying the flesh In imltawlen of
Master he professes to serve is not la his line.
i
LATEST SPORTING.
ff? CE »? ur T,® udaret was in type we have received
trom Mr. Perry, secretary to Tattersall’s Club, the
prog’ramme of stakes to be run for on their Cup
~ay,' tne first of next year, four of which events
_ re te close on the 5tn proximo—one week from
next Wednesday. Tattersall’s Club races have for
years past been a leading institution of New Year’s
uay, and in the present list there are a couple of
eve nts, of a description not always
found even in the best designed “Isthmian” bills
of fare. These are, first, a Selling Race, with 300
so vs clear to the winner; and next a Selling Two-
year-old race of 150 sovs., which will come in well
for those youngsters that find foal stakes and such
fr 5 **! a ri out above them. Of course there’s a
tiurate Race, and horse owners must not forget
the flft i,”
The settlement of wagers ver the late V.R.C.
® e6 ™g was fixed for Monday last, at Tattersall's.
but the majority of backers had evldentlv “for-
gotten the important day, and the “books”
were loud in their complaints. The large army of
metaJllolans " were losers to a man; and, as they
are at their posts quite as early when the times are
troublesome as the reverse, their customers should
have at least some consideration for them when
there s a big balance on the wrong side. There
never was known in N.8.W. so many backers miss-
ing as were talked of on Monday night; and if
things are allowed to go on as they have been
going, Tattersall’s Club must come to the rescue,
and make an example of the most important ab-
sentees by expelling them both the room and the
paddock. The N.S.W, Leviathan paid away up-
wards of £15,000 over the V.R.C. meeting, and his
settling ” book shows that he hasn’t received one
twentieth part the money due. The other “ books,”
comparatively, have as much to complain of. Tat-
tersall’s presented an empty array of benches on
the night chosen for settling.
It doesn’t appear to be generally known that the
Champion Race will be run at the V.R.C. Aus-
tralian Cup meeting In March instead of on New
Year’s Day, as heretofore. The Autumn meeting
has always entailed a big loss, and with the idea
of making it a more attractive gathering, the
T.B.O. have added the “champion” to the pro-
gramme.
The racehorses, Ike and Alde-do-Camp, have
been re-sold privately for lOOgs. and 150.' s. respec-
tively, and Nicholas has also found a purchaser for
450gs.
The Adelaide jumpers who were returning home
in the South Australian, were a good deal knocked
about owing to bad weather, which caused the
steamer to put into Portland. There were no flat
racers aboard.
Mr. Yuill reports the sale of the brood mares St.
Osyth, Meleslna, Jessica (dam of Sybil), and Btln-
oeue, to Mr. Virgoe, of N.S.W. Santa Claus has
been returned by Mr. Dakin to his owner, and
Clansman and Contesslna have been sent back to
Mr. Pearson. Mr. de Mestre’s horses returned to
Sydney to-day. Coir was under offer for some
time to Mr. 8 nart, but nothing came of the nego-
tiations. Jackdaw, who was sold last week by
Messrs. YulU and Co. on account of the
Hon. W. Pearson, has gone into Hey wood’s
stable. Tothill has gone back to Adelaide
with Sandal and Gratitude, but he will return to
Melbourne to superintend the training of Sardius.
Helene. Bis Bis. and Nicholas, the latter of whom
has just joined his string. Mr. M’Donald has taken
back the Israelite and Footstep to Adelaide, but
First Water remains in Melbourne for the present,
pending shipment to India.
Poor cooky, poor widow I “Lost, lost,”
Gabbahwt Is made to cry; “ got away from a poor
widow, the pet galah parrot of her dear departed
husband. Anyone returning the bird to tho
widow. No. 12 Blank-street, Surry Hills, will be re-
warded.” We yearn for the poor dear. No woman
likes to lose her pet galahnt.
Lydia Ann Jackson died at her father’s
station, Boree, on the 6th Inst. In July last she
had been prescribed for by Dr. Anderson, of
Urana. Four weeks, subsequently, since she
would persist in eating camphor (notwithstanding
her stepmother’s remonstrances) and was ill in
consequence, she was taken to Wagga, where Dr
Page attended her on the 31st ultimo. He sus-
pected she was suffering from angina pectoris
(heart spasm) and prescribed accordingly. On her
return home she seemed quite lively', but five
days afterwards she died. Certain Urana pf ople
entertaining suspicions that there were “ crooked”
circumstances connected wl h the girl's death, set
the local coroner and police in motion; result, an
inquest and this verdict“ We are of opinion
that Lydia Ann Jackson died at her father’s house.
Boree Creek, on the 5th Instant, from natural
causes. We also wish to express our opinion that
the authorities are to be censured for not having
made fuller inquiries as to the causes of death
before acting in the manner they did.” The evi-
dence justified the verdict. We can’t see that the
authorities were in the wrong, though there is
hardly a doubt that those who sot them in motion
were calumniating skunks. The evidence proved
that deceased was not vneiente. The mean starter
of the calmuny is bound to be mad with the ver-
dict. As for the police, they simply did what they
don’t always do -their duty.
A Senator’s Soliloquy.
Scene : A Large Room, with chair and table.
Water-monkeyflUed with “Soldier’s Joy.”
Orchestra : “ Baby’s got a tooth.”
(Enter Mao, alone, disguised as a perfect gentleman.)
Now, what the h 1 but stay, I will be calm.
’Tis not beseeming that I wrothy grow, and Are
and fume;
For am I not an honest man ? Aye, honest Is the
word—
A pure, unspotted specimen of God’s noblest han-
diwork;
A tmn—an honest man 1
No ; ilncemeat combination.
Wbk *'. sausage-like, holds in its frail envelope a
t..nngo, mysterious raixtun —
Part fool, part politician, and part man;
And, therefore, like to err.
Yet, strange It seems that in this House of Repre-
sentatives
There's but one honest man—that’s me.
[ Takes a drink of “ Soldier’s Joy ,” and glances over
the lt Ghrist(an’s Ouide to Glory."]
The Land Bill, now: methlnks I had the bulg ; on
Farnell there.
My speech was poor, but honest—aye, straightfor-
ward.
The Bill will fall, with all its imperfections on his
head;
And once again I’ll triumph.
The papers, too—blight upon them all I—
There’s not an honest man upon the lot,
Not one: a hungry, thirsty, addle-pated crowd,
Each one of whom might purchased be with this.
[Pats jug, and suddenly recollecting himself, drinks
to the muy honest man.]
Aye, bought to write what ne’er was said, and
never yet •ccurred;
AU liars, paid to lie, and bribed to mlsreport my
speeches.
Damn—but hold, I’m calm again; yet strange it is—
[Gazes sadly into mirror and talks to object therein.]
Strange that, in this ’lightened age of ours, this
nineteenth century.
But one Is found who honest is and true,
Straightforward, and no scheming politician;
[Winks knowingly at party in mirror.]
Aye, that’s the gag, how well in reads in print—
The kid-gloved scribblers got me right for once;
And through the length and breadth of New
South Wales,
With eager eye and ready lip, 'tis read ere this.
And men will say, “ ’Tis he—the people’s friend—
the only Mad”
My marble's right: the pool will yet be mine.
A little patience, and a lot of talk—
Of people wronged, and traltr’ous representatives,
And then—who knows, the day may
Come when on the Treasury benches I shall sit ?
But honest ever—aye, honest —yes, damned honest.
[Winks at party in mirror, and retires r.u.b., fully
charged, with honesty, and murmuring ;j
Aye, honesty’s the best policy. I’ve tried it.
At a Salvation Army meeting in one of
the English towns a “soldier,” we are told, went
raving mad, and the medical man who was called
In pronounced him to be suffering from the
worst kind of madness.” So we should think.
A cablegram informs us that the Russian
Government “ has formally pledged Itself to
abstain in future from interfering in Bulgarian
political affairs. A 44 formal pledge 44 from a
Russian Government always provides a little mild
excitement for European politicians: they note
with Interest the lapse of time that is required to
transform the f.p. into a d—lie.
The efficacy of Wolfe 4 s Schnapps has
been spoken and written of, but it is in the Indi-
vidual cures consummated it finds lt 4 s highest
award and surest advocacy. It is palatable, stimu-
lative. and produces marked results.
HER CHOICE.
DEDICATED TO THE SALVATION HARMY.
we ve all our little weaknesses.
And thus, behold, it came to pass:
We loved—oh, with a passion fire-
A lovely “ Hallelujah lass.”
You know not what it is, now, do yer.
To love a lass that’s “ Hallelujah” ?
It was outside the Glory-shop
We kissed and squeezed her ungloved hand,
And smiled the sinlie that we thought was
Most killing, innocent, and bland,
And whispered “ Now we know no sin—
The Fountain we have tumbled in.
*' You’ve heard,” wesaid, “ of gleaming snows
Whose crystals Northern lands do kiss:
Well, our love, darling, is as pure—
As Innocently pure—as this ”
Then here stepped up a splendid sample—
The Harmy’s pride—a “ Great Example.”
He was a bullet-headed youth,
Bedight in unlforn so trim;
And, deeply sunken in his head,
Lo! were the bead-like eye.- of him.
Of fang-like teeth he was no lacker,
And, on the quiet, he chewed terbacker.
He raised his voice discordant, and
It floated on the air so balmy;
And with a fixed and earn ear stare
She eyed this treasure of the Harmy.
“ What has he done ?” he shrieked. “ O Bel,
To cop yer bloomin’ ’eart—say, tell I ”
“ Why, look at me! It is—ah, yes—
About two mouths vgo last Sunday
I bit a ‘copper’ with a brick
And railed a till at Murrurundi;
And two days after -you’d have laughed—
I dropped a Chinkio down a shaft.
“ Sue gave me cheek, and very soon
The people in the house all missed her:
’Taint everyone, now, that can blow
That he’s argenicked his little sister.
And, when the fam’ly did turn grumpy.
Just shove a tire-stick in the humpy,
" ’Twas me who on the Geelong line,.
Upon the race day, laid the sleeper;
’Twas me who forged the £10-cheque,
And passed it on the blind storekeeper;
’Twas me who killed that hawker-man:—
Now, beat this record if you can I,”
The gauzy clouds unveiled the moon,
And with her light the earth was blest:
When with a sob of frenzied love
Bel threw herself upon his breast.
’Twas then we lit a cheap olgar. *
And bad# th# cheerful pair—“ Ta-t«.”


Nowhere perhaps has the dentist s art
such high excellence as in Sydney. Oerta»“y
are In no sense behind any other city. Vietors
Sydney might, to test this, visit the estabbswa ,
or Messrs. Adolphe Gabriel and V-teL
yard Square, two doors from Pfahlerts £ , he
Here the manufacture of every „,r*err
profession is carried on. At the rear of the
is a compact little factory where aU the resuJ» n
for supplying every dental defect to the “ hog#
mouth are made. Messrs. Gabriel and ko-i. w
only address is as above) are P 1 ®~Tj, og e
show their specimens of artificial teeth j* . RrQ e
th«
Hotel.—Ad vr.
A ROUNDABOUT PAPER.
The short and simple annals of the poor
may inspire poets or interest philosophers, but in
the hard region of practical politics it is seldom
that they receive much attention. There is
“nothing in it.” The legislator who concerns
himself about the affairs of the poor cannot even
reckon upon gratitude, let alone glory. He is apt
to be awarded quite as much abuse as thanks; and
while his attention is diverted from the flowery
paths of forestalling the public in securing lands
to be enhanced in value by his subsequent vote,
the fact that he has identified himself with vulgar
themes is a sure bar to the genteel distinctions of
the tinsel class, reserved for smooth men who per-
form heroic deeds at exhibitions, are complaisantly
complimentary to duffers in influential posi-
tions, or accomplish dashing exploits in con-
nection with laying foundation-stones or marshal-
ling processions. The arts of humbug find their
appropriate reward in a humbugging decoration
or empty title. Thus it happens that the Trades
and Labour Council and the undefined contingent
who, whenever they show signs of combination or
unity of sentiment, are promptly designated “ the
mob,” have been coming in for some severity of
admonition, and have found few apologists among
“ representative ” men. The S.M. Herald de-
parted from its uniform solemnity to try and
poke fun in a labourious way at (the Sunday
afternoon meeting in the Domain to protest
against the proposal to place restrictions upon
the liberty of speech and gatherings in that
Domain. Our contemporary, which is so re-
verent to a beggar on horseback, and so
bounolble to a beggar on foot, never has yet re-
ferred to Sir Henry Parkes’ lapses of pronuncia-
tion, but has made no bones about twitting one of
the Domain spokesmen with abuse of the aspirate.
Yet we should have thought that the vulgarism
is more ridiculous, and more fairly furnishes occa-
sion for satire, when displayed by a man who pre-
tends to dignity, than when proceeding from the
lips of an unpretending man of the people, ad-
dressing his fellows, without affectation, in “ the
vulgar tongue.”
* ♦ *
We look upon it as a cowardly sort of
custom which practises habitual deference to-
wards persons in authority or of position, and
employs towards them only the most qualified and
measured language, and which, on the other hand,
breaks out into expressions of contempt towards,
and derisively paraphrases the expressions of,
persons in humble circumstances. The Bulletin
does not pretend to rate the intelligence of “ the
mob ” high, or to hold that nondescript institution
in any reverence; but it does, at least, respect the
feelings of men who stand at a disadvantage in
every way, intellectually, socially, and politically,
quite as much as It concerns itself about the sus-
ceptibilities of men in places of power, wealth,
or distinction. When The Bulletin feels in
the humour to tweak a nose, it doesn’t lie in
wait for the weakest man in the commu-
nity ; it tackles the proboscis of the most
powerful and bumptious impostor accessible.
It’s not nearly so safe a game as the other, and it
is by no means so respectable; because to be a
“somebody,” as Sir Alfred Stephen would phrase
it, is to be respectable, and to be approved by
“ somebodies ’’ is to be respectable, while to flout
“ somebodies ” is to invite their denunciation as
“ scurrilous, disreputable, and blasphemous.” Let
it be noted that nothing so certainly provokes a
charge of blasphemy as irreverence towards
“ somebodies." For example, the British House of
Commons is full of agnostics-lnfldels, as the par-
sons would call them—yet nobody in that Chamber
has been abused as a blasphemous wretch except
Mr. Bradlaugh, who differs from the rest not only
in being more capable as a promulgator of his
views, and quite insensible to the god-like quali-
ties of the Duke of Marlborough, and other like
pensioners on the nation. Wo observe, by the
way, that the Domain orators had a turn at de-
nouncing some section of the Press in the terms
ordinarily employed for that purpose. The report
of the speeches in the Herald is so garbled and
imperfect that much of the speakers’ meaning is
left open to speculation. We conjecture, how-
ever, that the S.M. Herald itself was the object
of the orators’ animadversion. It is certainly to
be regretted that Park orators don’t improve on
the style of the men they contemn. This “ lying
report.” “scrubby filthy paper,” “wretched
rag ” business, has been pretty nearly
played out by “superior” persons and parsons.
♦ * *
The latter are enthusiasts at mud heaving. There
are two parsons up at Tam worth, for example—
we forget their names—who took the opportunity
of a very thin meeting of the School of Arts
committee to denounce The Bulletin in the
same sort of stylo as the Domain orators railed at
the S.M. Herald, and for the same reason. It
didn’t suit them, and had rubbed down that
class of mere professional theologians and
praying Dervishes who gyrate through a
community with a hymn-book in one hand, a
collection-plate in the other, and a mouth full of
bitterness for all people who can't see with their
eyes and won’t worship their sacred cloth. So
these silly parsons ordained that The Bulletin
should no longer be subscribed for by the School
of Arts, and no doubt went home chuckling. Of
course we weren’t pleased with their epi-
thets. We think parsons whose principal claims
to reverence are the liveliness of their hatred of
all men who don’t agree with their methods of
thought and their professional piety, a very poor
sort. Parsons who spit foul names at people or
things they don’t like are just as much black-
guards as laymen who do the same thing, and
are, moreover, open to the charge of preaching
peace and good-will and practising discord
and hatred. But while we had no relish
for the blackguarding, we enjoyed another
part of the affair very well. It so happens that
all newspapers have a rooted objection to supply-
ing Schools of Art, &c., with their publications.
It is a business repugnance, simply. We reckon
that wherever a School of Arts takes The Bulle-
tin, we are a certain number of possible sub-
scribers short. People who can read this, or any
other, paper “ on the cheap,” don’t buy it for
themselves. We can’t refuse to supply Schools of
Art when they send their money, and, anyhow,
the matter is too small to be particular about*
But when these two Rev. Balaams—we are not
clear which was the Balaam, and which the in
short, when the parsons went chuckling home, it
didn’t occur to them that the week after the re-
ceipt of their intimation came seven new sub-
scriptions for The Bulletin from Tamworth,
obviously traceable to their prohibition. In fact,
two of the new customers wrote and stated so, and
informed us—a little to our discomfiture—that they
and others were going to lend their Bulletins
freely all round. 80 that the sagacious priests
have effected the following : They have added
over £7 to our annual income, and have probably
doubled the number of readers of The Bulletin
among the people who heard of their attempt to
stop the tide of thought with the besom of restric-
tion. The lovely part of this joke is, that while
these parsons’ great “ down ” on The Bulletin is
because it scoffs at Orangeism, they—for all their
hatred of Popery and everything except Parsonry
—exhibit precisely the same persecuting spirit
as the Papacy did in its worst days, by showing
how eagerly they would if they could establish an
“Index Expurgatoris ” of their own, and pro-
hibit the dissemination of any opinions which did
not fit in with their own, and leave the prospects
of perpetuity of power, and pay for the “ clargy ”
unaffected. Poor, out-wltted parsons I Half Tam-
worth chuckling angrily, with a Bulletin in the
house and twenty-four shillings per annum to pay
to us in lieu of going into the “ collection ” on
Sundays.
♦ * *
Now, to return to the trouble about free-
dom of public meeting, and discussion and gossip,
and protestation and what-not, In the Domain, it
is diverting to observe prominent among those
who waited upon the Minister for Lands to protest
against any limitation of freedom of meeting or
of speech in the Domain, several persons who
have always argued that Parkes was quite justified
in preventing Mr. R. A. Proctor from lecturing on
Sundays in the Theatre Royal. On the present
occasion, however, nothing could be more en-
lightened than the declarations. Mr. Poole, M.L.A.,
asked the Minister to seriously consider any action
tending to take away from the people their birth-
right to stand up anywhere and give expression to
their thoughts on political, social, moral, or re-
ligious matters. In order to be consistent, Mr.
Poole should, in the Assembly, introduce a Bill to
abrogate such enactments, still surviving from the
dark ages, as the Blasphemy laws, under which
Lorando Jones was in this colony sentenced to im-
prisonment and treated like a felon.
• • •
It is no use professing the ideas of the nine-
teenth century while we live under the laws of
the seventeenth. The Mayor of Sydney spoke
plain sense when he said that to close the Park
right of public meeting and of free discussion
against public oratory would be to invite outbreaks
of rebellion To possess theoretically these rights
would bo a farce were if restricted by such provi-
sions that there remained no place to meet in, and
that people were only free to say that which no
one objected to. The right of tree speech means
nothing at all unless it means the right to sav what
a majority would gladly stifle.
A few weeks ago the rockets in Woolwich
Vrsenal, tired of the humdrum life they were
leading, and despairing of seeing active service,
went on a big “ burst.” They flew in all directions,
and then flow to pieces. Through conservatories,
shipping, and even school-houses they tore, but
“ What gave rise
To no little surprise
Few people seemed a penny the worse.”
In fact, but two hurt. And this brings us face to
face with the further fact that, In spite of the
efforts of the Age and the D.T., we are still ever
so far behind our English Journalistic kinsmen
In catering for the public. This is how the Echo
(London) reports (In big type) the Woolwich
business:—
“Frightful Explosion at Woolwich Arsenal-
Rocket Stores on Fire.—Great Loss of
Life.—Terrible Destruction of Pro-
perty.
“ A terrible explosion occurred in the rocket
factory, Woolwich Arsenal, this morning. The
rockets fired in continuous roll, travelling as far
as two miles and a half, and causing fearful de-
struction throughoutthe town and neighbourhood.
Many buildings are wrecked. In the Arsenal
itself some are utterly demolished.
“ The loss of life is very great.
“Ambulances are bringing In the dead and
injured from all directions.
“ Further explosions are feared.
“Exploration dangerous. Rockets still going
off.”
Political Points
Political “reversing.” Stuart: “You can’t
be let in now.” M’Elhone: “ Then I’ll * take it
out!’”
From the Agi: “ The conspiracies and ex-
plosions that are now startling London are only
possible because of the presence of so many aliens
in the population.” 11 1
The band of the Permanent Force might
surely have been better and more judiciously em-
ployed, the other Monday evening, than in tootling
away at the Luther demonstration—an affair essen-
tially sectarian in tone and colour. When the
Loyala quarter-centenary comes off in 1891, how
Hicks will rave should the P.F. bandsmen be per-
mitted to give their services I
THE SPECTRE OF SILENCE.
“ Looking ahead.—It is currently reported
that one gentleman, well-known in political
circles, has already intimated his intention of con-
testing the next election of members for the
Hastings and Manning electorate.”—M.R. Times.
The reason for this,
You must please understand.
The voice of their Member’s
“ Not heard in the land.”
So speak just a little,
And when you’ve obeyed,
You’ll see, Silent Charlie,
This bogey vrill fade.
In the N.S.W. Assembly, the other night,
Mr. A. G. Taylor, the pretty and gifted member
for Mudgee, while orating on the Land Bill, was
several times interrupted by Mr. Nlnian Melville,
who, as all the world knows, “ Is an undertaker by
profession,” and represents Newtown. At last,
Taylor turned round and snapped at Melville in
something’ like this fashion “ Yes, the honorable
member for Haslem’s Creek” (the old Sydney
cemetery) “should know a great deal about the
land question. He has settled more people upon
the lands of the colony than perhaps any other
man—(great laughter)—and he Is the only person
I know who has succeeded In giving fixity of
tenure.” Whereupon the House fairly yelled.
The treaty of Waitangi made the two races
—European and Maori—directly subject to the
Queen. The European section obtained self-
fovernment, and now the Maoris are agitating
or the same. They want elective committees,
empowered to legislate on Maori questions, Instead
of having their affairs given over to those who,
more frequently than not, do not understand
them. Had such a common-sense course been
adopted from the beginning, It Is surmised that
many a fine tall fellow who Is lying in a forgotten
grave might to-day have been walking about, the
prosperous and contented father of a happy family.
OH, NO I
The Speaker was perfectly satisfied with
the hon. member’s (Mr. M'Blhone’s) explanation.
f“I won’t apologise again. Do you want me to
bellow It out for you ?’ ]
Oh, what more could the angels want ?
why, nothing, Sir—that’s sartaln I
Who for more Humble words could pant ?
Well—not you. Speaker Barton I
This humble pie, no doubt, you’ll own
Is quite enough from—M'Elhonel
What! you afraid—In that grand rig—
Soared at grim Johnny’s wrath, Sir?
You long to creep beneath your wig ?—
Oh, tell It not In Gath, Sir I
You may have from his coarseness shrunk—
But, hang it—no I—It isn’t— funk I
Mr. Mould—we mean Mr. Melville—evi-
dently thought he was going to score off the
Minister for Works, the other night, when he
asked for Information touching “ those cows,” and
the extent of the lacteal business done by a
person named Lackey, employed by Government
on the Prospect reservoir. But Wright saw the
Member for Newtown coming, and In his blandest
tones replied, “ Yes there is a party named Lackey
employed on the said work. Mr. Wright was
also well aware that the date of this officer's pre-
sent appointment was 30th May 1881—that he has
charge under the resident-engineer of the Veteran
Hill Estate—that he prepares returns, and
generally assists the resident-engineer—that he
pays no rent for occupying half of that valuable
property—that he Is a son of the late Secretary
for Works—that his sole remuneration for all his
arduous, Siberian-slave like labour Is a beggarly
pittance of £7 per week, but—there's always a
but when the real trouble comes-Mr. Wright was
not aware that the persecuted Lackey is alleged to
have endeavoured to keep the wolf from the door
by grazing his cows on the Veteran Hill Estate, and
selling the milk in opposition to the neighbouring
farmers. And yet that’s Just the very thing Mr
Melville was mad to know. However, Mr. Wright
says he’ll see into it—some day.
The dark hints that Mrs. Carey possessed
documents incriminating some Irish M.P.’s are
about as true as a Russian despatch. We have to
go back to Bardre to find as great a liar as her Jate
usband, and to George IV to find his equal in
coarseness, selfishness, and all round scoundrel-
ism, One less likely than the deceased informer
to keep back any information which could be
used to destroy others it would be impossible to
find. With one leg of a compass planted on the
dome of St. Paul’s, you might describe a circle
embracing a hemisphere, and not discover in its
confines, a wretch so utterly dead to all humane
feelings or impulses. Of him an English paper
remarks:—“Through the black tissue of a foul
disposition not one bright thread appeared. He
was cruel, cunning, selfish, coarse, and false, and
the stories told of him on all sides, now that the
arrival in London of his wife and children have
opened the old story, are revolting, and, if true,
are almost enough to justify a public thanksgiv-
ing service for the removal of sc savage a mon-
ster. Of course, there is no doubt that O’Donnell
is a murderer, and will die the death accordingly.
Still, you cannot blame people for feeling that
there are murderers and murderers.” All this
will be bad news to those spuriously loyal Aus-
tralian journals which would gladly part with a
portion of their long ears if the slightest suspicion
of a participation in outrages could be attached to
the men they detest.
We thought we’d wake him up! Harry
M’Quade is going it now, with a vengeance I Here,
we have him only last Friday, introducing to the
Minister of Werks a deputation of his con-
stituents, who want a railway from Plttown to
Mulgrave. “ Only that, and nothing more;” in
fact, it may be said to take either a railroad or an
aqueduct to draw Henry out of his shell. Now is
the time to show his mettle. The eyes, if not of
the world, at least of Windsor, are upon the
? allant member, and when he shall have thundered
orth his eloquence on the Land Bill, many a little
,pink ear—we forgot, though. We are much in
the same way ourselves. Anyhow, Mr. M’Quade’s
constituents are all attention. And, for the matter
of that, just a few of the South Sydney people
are flapping their ears anxiously in the direction
of “Ultimo John,” who, it is rumoured, has
spoken nothing in the House since he said
at tea time to a waiter—“A little dry toast
and a clean plate.” Mr. Oliffe has been, up to the
time of writing, equally silent on Land. Mr. O.
was eloquently dozing the other night in bis seat,
when Sydney Smith said to him, “ What are your
views with regard to selection before survey?”
upon which the member for South Sydney replied,
“ Open from one till three on Sundays.” The
gifted Stokes will now vote against the Land Bill,
though he was pledged to support the Govern-
ment when he got in for Forbes with Coonan; and,
in connection with this, Walter is credited with a
bon mot. They wired to him from Forbes, “ What
are Stokes’s views ?” when Mr. Coonan imme-
diately telegraphed back—” Dissolving.”
The means so successfully adopted by the
Ingenuous Bismarck for entangling the French
fly in the German spider’s web in 1870, are again jn
rehearsal, and Spain is again the chestnut which
the Teutonic monkey seeks to draw from the hot
ashes by means of the Gallic cat. Mat*, Vhomme
propose and—the biggest battalions generally dis-
pose. Among the Europeam military experts,
nest fitted by position and knowledge to judge of
the probable result, the French chances in a fresh
struggle are considered even less than they were
thirteen years ago. Having passed successfully
through three wars, each of which altered the
map of Europe, the German military system is
considered the best the world has seen, while that
of France is still tentative. But, against this, we
have the fact that a few years since Lord Wolseley
stated in the Nineteenth Century that, on her
own ground. France was impregnable. We have
the further Historical fact that the raw levies of
the First Republic more than held their own
against the trained soldiers of Austria and Russia,
and, when welded into cohesion by the genius of
Napoleon, scattered the veterans who obeyed
Frederick’s successors. But the German army is,
the most perfect military machine in exist-
ence. Bach corps is constructed so as to form in
Itself a complete little army that can without in-
convenience be at any time detached from the
main body. During peace everything is kept
ready for mobilization in case of war. If the
decree for mobilization were to be wired to-
morrow from Berlin, the whole field would be
ready in a few hours to march.
* ♦ ♦
The Gawler Mechanics’ Institute declined
to lend Redmond their hall. Gawl(er)lng for the
League. Redmond should buy an old circus tent..
At the Queensland elotions, 180 votes were polled
at Mullaney’s Camp. One bullock is killed there
every ten days, and the people have meat three
times a day. 800 ballot-papers were sent to Her-
berton-300 would have been ample, so that it
looks uncommonly like a “ put-up Job from the
very beginning.
♦ • *
The German element in America is close
on nine millions ’Tis to be hoped that the
rumour is true which credits the British Govern-
ment with having withdrawn the Dryad and its
cantankerous and injudicious Johnstone from
Tamatave. It is one thing for a naval commander
to be firm and jealous of his flag, and quite an-
other to be petulent, touchy, and uncivil. When
Johnstone was at school, his parents evidently
neglected to ante-up the extra tuppence for
manners It is said that the Czar and Czarina
“study history, mathematics, and political eco-
nomy together, ride together, and, when possible,
live a natural, simple life.” The thousands of
Russian men, women, and children who are
streaming east to rot in Siberian mines for asking
for a constitution, does not appear to effect the
“natural, simple lives” of this august couple.
Should their Arcadian simplicity be disturbed by
the petard of the Nihilist, it is on the cards they
may be blow* up together When Lord Derby
was asked how he liked the change, speaking in
the House of Lords he replied: “I am becoming
accustomed to it, but at first I felt like speaking
to gravestones in a cemetery.” — Preaching at
Croydon lately, the new Archbishop of Canter-
bury remarked that the want of sympathy
tween the upper and lower classes made one
tremble to think of the mine of ill-will which lay
hurled for the present among the suffering ano
toiling classes. It was difficult to see thattne
same seed would bear any different fruit 1 w®
what it had yielded informer years and in otner
countries. Ccmmenting on this indication,
a London paper says :—“ Dr. Benson has
grasped that tne problem of his Primacy
is to be the gulf between rich and poor.
the writer asks :—“Why was our expedition “*
Egypt never condemned by the Church to
people who live by labour? The same sum °
money spent in Ireland, or in opening up no
ports for trade in Africa, or in any way, c P
throwing it away on warlike operations, wou
have made some return to the people, ana neip
to close the gulf between rich and poor, or, mi
Primate chooses to call it, ‘the mine of m ,
which lies buried for the present among
suffering and toiling classes.’ Ay, for the P
sent,’but for how long?” _
HER HEROI


ZOEDONE,
Pleasant, Refreshing,
Invigorating.
The non-aioohoUo beverage acts as a brain and
nerve tome, and does not intoxicate.
ZOEDONE
Is recommended by the Faculty as a substitute for
wine, beer, and spirits, as it invigorates without
producing any intoxicating effect. In case of
debility consequent on a long residence in a hot
climate, it js of great service, as it acts not only as
a nerve stimulant, but also as a permanent tonic
to the system.
Price per case containing 6 dozen H pints ...
, „ „ 6 „ 1 „ ..
12/
24/
ELLIOTT BROTHERS,
72 and 74 Pitt-street,
Sydney.
mm
yn
R.BURCIS-
TAILOR .
VISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
FOB
CHEAPNESS, FIT, AND WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any
part of the Colony.
WORKING CLASSES,
GENERA'1<E FOUR OWN GAS.
Apply to
D. KEELY AND CO.,
71 Gouftmm-street, Sydney.
Dealers In Portable Gas, Gasallers, Lamps, and
Fluid. Comfort, Economy, and Safety.
Keely, on behalf of the Patent Portable Gas
charge of the lighting of the hall and
Birnoer rooms at the Hay Demonstration, and the
lining of Croydon Station. He undertakes to
tmchlfls customers In three minutes the mode of
U A liberal discount will be given to storekeepers
on remittances per orders, and goods forwarded
with aulck despatch. Orders and remittances to
to the Xve address. No orders attended
to without remittance.
LIST OF PRICES:
Light Gasaller 10
2 10
119
6 10
2 10
0
0
0 to £2
0
0
5 0
do. do.
do. do. . • , • •
Light Brass Table Lamps ..
do. do. do. •• j-
rass Bracket Lamps, bum 18
hours .. •• . ••
r aU Bracket Lamps, do.
lobes and Fittings
HtliSStequaito 1* worth hero-
ine. as to the mode of Ughtlng sent
>Colonies.
2 0
0 17
0 6
0 2
0
6
0 each
6 gal.
viz.
THE HARWOOD
Fibre Chair Seating,
and Cheapness.
THIS CHAIR SEAT is made from the strongest
known fibres and a perfectly waterproof
cement? and after fifteen years’ constant use, we
na« ar>eak positively as to its merits. It cannot
split or check, neither will exposure to sun or rain
affect it.
Awarded Gold Medal at the late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
For RE-SEATING it is unrivalled. In every
house, store and office, are chairs with seats broken.
Any person can re-seat and make as good as new a
chair that is otherwise worthless, at a very trifling
expense.
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE FOR HOME USE.
Agents Wanted in Every District.
From £3 to £5 a week can be made by any smart
Triton or boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
82 CLARENCE STREET.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
Stock, Station, and General Com-
mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
Marshall’s
TONIC NERVINE
REGISTERED.
A SAFE, certain, and speedy cure for Nervous
and General Debility, and all complaints that
soring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Nervous Headache, and Toothache, Indigestion,
Loss of Appetite, General Prostration, &c. By its
tonic and soothing effects it at once removes aU
cmving for ALCOHOL. By its richness as a Che-
SS it nourishes and to the
Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREA V LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favourit« remedy. We all suffer more
or less from liver complaint, thereby hindering
other organs from fulfilling their functions. Set
the liver in order by taking the above remedy, and
heart, lungs, brain, and stomach ■will unite in
graceful chorus.
ABRAHAM'S PILLS,
The true invigorator. If your vital forces are
depressed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of oomlnR
disaster, your liver is unequal to its work. T<-
obviate afi these symptoms there is no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABRAHAM’S FILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion of
the maladies and ailments attacking the human
frame are really due to a disordered liver. Set “his
organ in order and health returns as if by mag c.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are imitations, ask for ABRAHAM’S
PILLS. See that each box, by whomsoever sold,
bears the inventor’s name and trade mark. 1 he
Lab uatiry,
4S4 George Street, Sydney.
W. H. PALING,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
EASY TERMS SYSTEM IS? INSTRUMENT.
*
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC,
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIAKD’8 SHOKT HORN BOURBON .-The
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFPNUNG- & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
as
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ys in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY, ,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWA RE,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J.T GATEN’S
Sobnaops 'Art uoneva.
A. Mt),\ -N and SONS’
Bdinbu-gn Pale e.
PAPERS ANGI NOS!
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to r„atcii.
NURSBRi P/ i'ESS.
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, &0.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwick,
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &c.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TTn-d-ertsulser,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B. —Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (10) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
EURE
KA
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
THE PARAGON OP PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco of the Age I
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The or y Tobacco combining Excellence of Qualltr
with Economy In Price.
Each PLUG is STAMPED with the word
“ BL REKA.” Smokers see that you obtain t
Takt no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
Total Co., Ik
AT TUE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
An 11*. a be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as Its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO,
Registered according to Act of Parliament, to
tool the public aaa'nst spurious and w— *
'nutations.
OEQ-AITS,
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
| W. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.,
THE BEST MAKERS IN THE WORLD,
AT EXTRAORDINARY LOW PRICES.
•w. H. PALING,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
BRISCOE, DRY SO ALE & CO.,
ion, mom, in ubiib,
397 GEORGE STREET,
66 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
SOLE ABENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ Tools, Founders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery, Coach
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricultural
Implements.
PUMPS.
Special Steam, Centrifugal, and
Force and Lift.
BOILERS.
Vertical and Horizontal.
ENGINES.
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
nAVHinuHi'
r ,V. nrilliiiE Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting and Screwing
Lathes, Drilling, Mach i n %3. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY.
English and American Agricultural Implements.
Cu ttosf and™ heUere,’ MawhineH^ 6
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
r, cutnories Axles Spring's, Woodenware, Leathers and Furnishings, Varnishes, and
Coach Builders Sundries. Ax^ u^ n c K e 8 1 ’ ebrated Co ach Colours.
, , - T)- n or pi Q fp chppf An trie And Tee Iron • Gfllvtinlzody Corm^iitcd
Large Stocks always on hand of Pi|. Barbate, Sheet, Ajlc and
Squatters’ Supplies.
Wc.olp.ck., Sheep Shear., 011k Kaddle, wire, Sheep Wafting and Dam ttu.
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Locks, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest implements in Carpenters’ Tools.
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND CO..
397 Geerae Street, Sydney.


C °UfJT RUMfO??
iTal
IK
3* ®
t" spared according: to the directions o. Prof.
B. N. Horsford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED FOR
UY8PEP8IA, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
MPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA, WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY, &c.
t3T" No Danger can Attend its Use.
Nervous Depression from Overwork.
Sluggish Circulation and Growing Chil-
dren.
Sandusky, O., May 31,1880,
I have used your Acid Phosphate and can pro-
nounce It a very valuable addition. I find It use-
ful and beneficial In nervous dyspepsia, nervous
depression following overwork and anxiety, as well
as the gastric derangements. Where there is
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation, a dull,
heavy head, it is of undoubted value. Fast grow-
ing children require this valuable addition.
W. R. PAGE, M.D.
Liver and Kidney Derangements.
Boston, Mass., May 18,1680.
In regard to the Horsford’s Acid Phosphate, I
have used it very extensively, and with the most
remarkable success.
I give It in dyspepsia and In all oases where there
Is derangement or the liver and kidneys. With
my patients it has agreed wonderfully.
O. G. GILLEY, M.D.
Nerve Tonic.
A. S. Carpenter, M,D., Keene, N.H., says :
“ Horsford’s Acid Phosphate Is a valuable medi-
cine. I have taken it myself, and for several
years prescribed It for my patients, when suffering
from indigestion or innervation of the digestive
organs, and always with satisfactory results. It is
a good nerve tonic, and in some cases of morbid
urine, ‘ it acts like a charm,’ producing the desired
result. It is pleasant to the taste, acceptable to the
stomach, and la, in my opinion, an excellent and
valuable compound.”
ICan be borne by the most Sensitive
Stomachs.
Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 1880.
Hereford's Acid Phosphate, in elegance of com-
position, stands unrivalled. It is pleasant to the
taste, and can be borne by the most sensitive
stomach. Have prescribed ft with marked benefit
in indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms an
excellent substitute for lemon juice, and as such
will furnish a refreshing drink for the sick.
A. L. HALL, M.D.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
44 It Works like a Charm.”
It Is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches fire. It cures
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Bruises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an internal remedy it tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Threat, and Dyp-
therla.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL In the house, or on hand for immediate use In
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers la
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported into this country, and have
gained throughou Itke colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. 1
leather, and the upholstery is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their i. nish
BECAUSE they are each and all built under special
instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage builders in America,
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say they are the
BEST.
American Carriage Emporium,
WTNYAED SQUARE, STDNXT.
BARRON .MOXHAM A 00.,
fcv ; .0
Dastardly Outrages.
Thebe has been a fume of Indignation respecting
the sad and shocking conduct of a captain of a
“labour” schooner, who dumped £100 worth of
“trade” into the royal lap of His Most Sacred
Majesty Quashiboo, by the Grace of God King of
Mafuta Island, Fid. def., &c. &c., on the under-
standing that His Majesty would fill up the
schooner with his subjects. The Maryborough
Chronicle reflect! yely states i and the remark is
quoted with decorous approval by dozens of
journals) that “ it does not require any transcen-
dental power of thought to picture the worthy
potentate persuading his perhaps unwilling coun-
trymen to join the ship. To bribe a powerful
ruler to bully his subjects to recruit ... is a
little dodge which can be done very quietly, and,
therefore, when found out should be nipped in the
bud.” This is good wholesome moralizing; but*
look here, isn’t it a little humiliating and a great
lump instructive that one “ Secret of England’s
Greatness” was (when the Bible wasn’t actively
exerting its magic influence) just this very prac-
tice? In the time of the American War of Inde-
pendence, and right up to the fall of Napoleon
I., our holy and righteous nation, which never did
anything wicked, and is a moral example to the
world, and a shining light among the—ah, among
the Pharisees — used to tip German Sovereign
Princes (a Sovereign Prince meant a two-penny
half-penny Prlncelet with the powers of Titus
and the income of Judas Iscariot) to sell them a
few regiments of regulars, as volunteers. And
when the colonists of America bucked at that
crazy, well - meaning, virtuous, homely, arro-
gant old fool, George III., we turned loose on
them a horde of Hessians —poor devils who had
been crimped in whole battalions by their loving
Sovereign for ten guineas a head, and kidnapped
for the butchering business by our own grand-
fathers. We now term the principal scoundrels
on our own side of this transaction patriotic
statesmen, and we allege lineal descent from the
pig-headed old gilded lunatic George as an un-
answerable title to reign over us; and when the
descendant of the Princely crimp skipped over to
England a few years back, the Queen gave him
one of her daughters in marrhige, and the Com-
mons voted him nearly as much per annum as
his grandfather used to get for a whole
battalion. And, by the way, we bought a lot of
German men once, but the war we wanted to ex-
pend them on closed up unexpectedly. So, being
puzzled how to dispose of them, as it Is not lawful
to employ foreign mercenaries in England, we
made military settlers of them at the Cape of
Good Hope. And they chummed in with the de-
scendants of the early Dutch settlers, and a couple
of years ago their sons gave our own native-born
troops the devil's own licking, at Majuba Hill and
elsewhere. They are called Boers now.
Even in death the ruling passion of avarice was
strong in the lately deceased Dean Backhaus, of
Sandhurst. In order to evade the succession laws
of the country in which he prospered, he gave his
housekeeper, Miss Halfpenny, £15,000 before his
death, with verbal instructions how to dispose of
it. But this Irregular procedure found no favour
in the eyes of Holy Church, which coveted all the
plunder, and so Miss H. was made defendant in a
law-suit. She has come off with flying colours, and
can now “collar" the £16,000, and do what she likes
with it. Should she repudiate some of the claims
which her late lamented master told her to re-
member, who can blame the poor lady, after
the trials she has had to go through? The
world is full of anomalies—at every step
we trip over paradoxes. If Heaven lies
about us during infancy, “shams” surround us
later on, and never leave us during the remainder
of the journey. They are of all kinds—social,
political, scientific. But the biggest of all is the
“religious” sham. It was known that the late
Dean was wealthy—it was more than surmised that
some of that wealth was obtained by means that
would not bear the light. He did not conceal that
the chink of gold was music to his ears—that dig-
ging his arm to the elbow in a bag of sovereigns
was to him the passion of the lover, the enthusiasm
of the poet, the ardour of the sbldler, all rolled
into one. Yet, for a whole generation, people
attended to his denunciations of mammon-wor-
ship, and knelt to hear him tell how Christ loved
the poor! Well done, Miss Halfpenny. Change
your name at ones—there is no longer need for
such a humble patronymic. We are bachelors,
and will change your name—and your money,
too, if you like. We salute you—but, should
a half-penny of that £15,000 ever find its way
Homewards, you are not the lady we take you for.
Bismarck was too ill to attend the great
Germania f6te. Just before that event, the
Emperor visited his faithful but suffering friend,
who said: “ No cigars dare I smoke to solace me;
no wine dare I take to cheer me.” “ Then I am
better off than you are,” said the hardy old Kaiser,
“for I drink my wine with rare relish, and enjoy
my cigar as of old.” “ Ah I Sire,” replied the man
of blood and iron, “ it is a thing of course that the
horse, drops, worn out, before the rider ! ”
“Hotspur,” in the Australian (Q.), is
severe upon those stiff-necked sceptics "who have
sought to falsify the idea of entity being con-
structed out of nonentity. Their Idea is that no
matter exists that has not taken its substance from
matter previously existent.” But “Hotspur”
knows better. He knows that something can be
made out of nothing. Theologians, who differ in
most things, at least agree in this—that even an
omnipotent Creator couldn’t do things intrinsi-
cally impossible. For Instance, He could not make
a plane triangle contain more than two right
angle, or make the diameter of a circle less than
the radius. But, according to the acute “Hot-
spur,” He could change nothing into something.
The highest generalisation that science has reached
—a generalisation that appeals to (he understand-
ing with precisely the same force as t ho axiom that
"“the whole is greater than a part”—is that there
never was, and never can be, the most infinitesi-
mal change in the “ quantity” of matter contained
4n the universe. All the wise arguments of “ Hot-
spur” and his school can never upset this self-
evident truth.
Wells’ “Bough on Corns.”— Ask for Wells’
“ Rough on Corns.” Quick relief, complete, per-
manent cure. Corns, warts, bunions. Moses,
Jdoss & Co., Sydney General Agents,
The Western Grazier considers that
the Duke of Albany “ is a young man of princely
qualities and engaging manners, possessed of a
sound and masculine understanding, and widely
read in the constitutional history and the traditions
of the realm over which his illustrious mother
rules. Colonists would assuredly be delighted to
have societv led by one in such near relationship
to the throne, and be flattered by having their
festivities and amusements graced by the living-
presence of royalty.” This is what comes of living
in Wilcannia! We don't want the gallant Colonel
with the “ masculine mind ” to rule over us. We
are quite content with the intrepid “ Commander-
In-Chief of N.S. Wales and its dependencies” who
is at present “ administering the Government ”
We know, of couise, that were there any real
danger, his present Excellency (whom we revere)
would be found, with quivering nostrils, at his
post, guarding for dear life the hen-coop with a
pine-batten. But Lord Augustus Loftus (hats off!)
does not invite bloodshed. Heisquietly conscious
of his bravery and all that, but he does not assert
himself. Now, if they only sent this “young man
of princely qualities” over to supersede Gussy,
his martial ardour would get the better of him one
day after a more than usually square meal of sago,
and chaos would be the result. Once primed
up, we can tell you, with five drops of
pain paint taken internally, and his bunions
well decorated with iodine, and the fiery blood of
his Illustrious ancestor, George III. (of glorious
memory), would begin to tell. No, no. We are
quite content to worry along in our own little tm-
Eot way without Leopold. Besides, his passage
ere and back would be such a drain on the colony.
His Royal Highness travels, you know, in so many
compartments. Just consider. What with his
epaulette-case that would not be “ wanted on the
voyage,” and his eyeball-box that would, some
confusion, it is safe to prophesy, would ensue.
We have no doubt, thougn, that when Prince
Leopold sees the par. we have quoted in the Wes-
tern GitAZiERjhe will feel much gratified; and, in
the event of His Royal Highness’s really being
appointed to the Governorship of this colony, the
editor of the Grazier will, we should imagine, bo
certain to be appointed to a place, if not near the
Duke’s person, at least in the immediate vicinity of
—the pantry.
When a certain Northern politican alighted
from the coach, a band of torch-bearers threw a
glare on the road. He could not thank them
enough, hesaid. “ Thanks be blowed,” said a voice,
“ we only brought the lights to see where to throw
the eggs!”
Labour in a British colony with the blessed
opportunity of being taught the Catechism is good
for the Polynesian nigger, so long as he’s allowed
no chance of buying a firearm, or of becoming
acquainted with any of the manoeuvres of aggres-
sive Christianity and civilisation. Such is the
8.M. Herald’s profound conviction. So long as
the nigger is satisfied to work hard for next to no
pay: to reverence the white boss as his pastor,
master, and better; to be content with his serf-
dom; and to prefer cheap calicoes and shodey
stuffs to articles wherewith he might, on his return
home, teach his brethren to make a stand against
the kidnapper, ’ti- hallelujah with the commercial
missionary and his congeners. But, when the
Polynesian nigger, who has returned home with
a rifle, uses it at a lying labour trafficker, we are
told by the organ of the commercial missionary
that it is out of Idleness and vieiousness that the
said nigger makes a target of a shipmaster, and
that the indiscriminate use of the Gatling by
H.M. sailors in retaliation is the only way of bring-
ing hin. to his senses. Krom the purely commer-
cial standpoint. Garrannt’s doctrine may lie the
k’recf one. The nigger may be doomed to be
either enslaved or GatJinged—or both: but why,
oh. why, make pretence that the treatment he
gets from the whlteKerristian is such as Humanity
can honestly approve?
Now that the engagement of “Gipsy”
Gladys, the stylish Lady Lonsdale, to Mr. Luke
White, the dashing Guardsman, is announced,
peonle say the Interesting couple ought to have
been married long ago—that is to say, when the
beautiful Gipsy was an unsophisticated maiden.
But then they were both poor. So the beauty
consented to ‘‘love, honour, and obey” Lord Lons-
dale, a sprig of aristocracy who was immensely
rich, hardly ever sober, privately married to a
servant girl, and confidently expected by his ,n-
timate friends to drink himself to death in the
shortest time on record in the English peerage.
So he did. Now, this just shows what a virtue
patience is. By waiting a little while, Luke and
Gladys when they marry will be quite rich, instead
of wretchedh poor. As she didn t waste any of
her maiden love on the lamented Lonsdale, she’ll
be able to love Luke like anything, and they will
both be happy in the consciousness of doing what
everyone says they ought to have done.
It is rumoured, now, that H.B.H. the Duke
6f Teck and the Duchess and kids won’t be ex-
patriated to Pappenheim after all, since “means
are to be devised to provide amply for the estab-
lishment of their Royal Bignesses ” More joy I
And this reminds us that when the Queen, two
years ago, made that valorous old fossil, the Duke
of Cambridge, a Knight of the Thistle, the fees,
ornaments, &c., amounted to £350, and were de-
frayed by an enlightened, loyal, and enthusiastic
public. The Garter of the King of Saxony (that
noble German Sausage) cost £450, and the investi-
ture of the King of the Netherlands a like sura.
A whole lot of this plunder goes to the Dean of
Windsor, but the Dean and Chapter of St. George’s
get a slice on their little salvers also. Prince
Albert Victor is a Knight of the Garter now, but,
thank Heaven I England is a passing rich country.
We, on the other hand, are comparatively poor,
though we confess that, when money becomes a
little more plentiful, we should be glad to see some
distinction conferred in our midst—say, for in-
stance, on the Hon. John Lucas, or—well—Garden
Honey.
Four San Francisco men possess £8,000,000
each; five £4,000,000 to £6,000,000; two £2,000,000; and
a whole mob from £100,000 to £500,000. None of
them go to church; and as their wealth increases,
their belief in any particular form of religion ap-
pears to decline. Sixteen of them own about
£60,000,000 between them.
We are pleased to observe, by an adver-
tisement in the Brisbane Courier, that “Mr.
Milner Stephen, the Anstralian Healer,” leaves for
Sydney on the 17th instant. We wonder whether
red flannel and a stroug breath would cure con-
ceit and pig-headedness. If so, one would think
that Milner’s natural affection would Induce him
to—. But again, perhaps, even Milner would hesi-
tate to "blow upon” so near a relative. We’re
glad, anyway, to learn that Milner ia the Austra-
lian “ Healer.” All that the continent now re-
quires is an Australian toe-er.
Buchanan on Luther (in the Sydney D. T.)
was a mosaic work, mainly composed of chunks
from the works of the sage of Chelsea, Some of
the chunks were in no way apropos to the occa-
sion. For example, David, quoting Carlyle, asks
“ But whence ? O heaven, whither ? Sense knows
notl Faith knows not!" Now, Luther pretended
to know all about those matters. Never was man
more dogmatic, more assertive of infallibility, than
Luther. Lutheranism, even in Luther’s days,
parted company with freedom of thought, It has
ever kept its back turned to culture. “Lost in a
maze of arid theological controversy, it held out
no hand of welcome to awakening science.”
“ Who can tell,” asks Beard in his “ Hibbert Lec-
tures,” “what might have been the development
of the intellectual life of Europe, had Luther put
himself at the head of the freer thought of his
time?” Who, indeed? What we do know is that
he didn’t do so. Had Carlyle lived iu Luther’s
days, and talked about us all emerging from, to
plunge again into, the inane, Martin would have
bad him grilled.
INJURY.
“ Steal my cucumbers, will you?
INSULT.
Larrikin (outside): “Hi, you! Just you give us up that boot, you thief! ”


INFORMATION wanted about FRED. IVORY,
or WILLIAMS, who was last heard of in
Sydney about four years ago. If he will apply to
Colin Douglas, care of Gordon and Gotch, Bris-
bane, he will hear of something to his advantage.
The choicest Australian floral
cards
are those published by
Messrs. TURNER and HENDERSON,
and only
To be OBTAINED at their ESTABLISHMENT
in Hunter-street.
They are very chaste and lovely, and can be had
with or without Christmas mottoes. All have
botanical names at foot of card.
Price, Is. each ; 10s. per dozen, post free.
PRESENTS PRESENTS. PRESENTS.
TURNER and HENDERSON
are now opening
CHOICE GOODS
of every description suitable for the
Coming Season.
Showroom on First Floor.
Sent post free for Is. stamps to defray postage.
“TRUTH,”
A TREATISE showing the under-surface evils
of society that cause Impediments to Mar-
riage ; Celibacy ; Woman ; Advice to those about
to Marry. Also, the Injury caused by the use f
Tobacco and Alcohol; How to Regain and Preserve
your Health ; &c., &c. Address
R. T. 8EBBY, M.H.,
DEVONSHIRE ST., SURRY HILLS, SYDNEY.
EVERY Or. Marston’s New Work
MAW
SHOULD
Describing uovv from
Nervous and Pin-deal Debility.
Mental Decay and all disorders
resulting from Excesses, Indis-
cretions or Overwork, are per-
manently Cured
Without Stomach Medicines.
WEAK, NKKVOCS. AMI 1U POTENT
1IK.N RKSTOKKO TO
VIGOR, HEALTH A MANHOOD
Consultation with Physician
and Book FREE. Address—
READ
| Wanton Remedy Co.,
1 ’5 ft,T! ‘B'*TC IT 2 . INST
P. R. H0LDSW0RTH,
AUCTIONEER, VALUATOR,
House, Land & Estate Agent
63 ROYAL ARCADE, PITT STREET.
CADET EXAMINATION. SURVEY OFFICE.
IT is hereby notified that an Examination of
Candidates for Employment as Cadets in the
Department of the Surveyor-General will be held
on the 28th, 29th, and 30th of November next.
Candidates must have attained the age of 16 years,
or they will not be eligible for examination.
Intending competitors can obtain further in-
formation upon applying by letter to the Surveyor-
General, or personally to the Secretary and
Cashier.
(Signed) P. F, ADAMS,
Surveyor-General.
Surveyor-General’s Office,
Sydney, 10th October, 1883.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
308 GEORGE STREET.
'XfLEBRtftV'
°^3coltW i8^
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD S
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGBN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the-NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
smoke a decent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which com bines a very superior quality
with a moderate price.
ftHEYDE, TDDMAN & CO.,]
YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
WOOL SALES, 1883.
MY very numerous constituents, and all in-
terested in the wool trade, will please take
notice that my unrivalled
NEW WAREHOUSE
AT
Darling Harbour Railway Terminus
Will be READY FOR THIS SEASON, and that I
shall be prepared to do the fullest justice to the
LARGEST as well as the SMALLEST Clips.
Each lot will be carefully Weierhed and Valued
as soon as received, weights and valuations being
submitted to owners so as to hear from them be-
fore sale if necessary.
Owing, now, to the attendance of Foreign
Buyers, our market is equal to the London Market
—a point well worth remembering. Any Bank or
Firm holding liens on wool will, if asked, allow
owners to send their wool to me ; and any For-
warding Agents, or Managers of Railways or
Steam Companies, will receive and forward Wool
or ether Produce on my account, and pay carriage
or other expenses.
ALL PROCEEDS OF SALE will be available, as
heretofore, at ANY TIME after sales ; or AD-
VANCES, small or large, made before sales are
effected.
SALES of LIVE STOCK, TALLOW, HIDES,
GRAIN, SUGAR, and every sort of Produce will
also meet with the greatest possible care.
JOHN BRIDGE.
MORT and CO. (Limited),
WOOL AND GENERAL
PRODUCE BROKERS.
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
Grain and Flour Brokers.
LIBERAL ADVANCES
made on
Wool,
Sheepskins,
Tallow,
Hides, Wheat,
Tin Ore, and
other Produce
for SALE and SHIPMENT.
Wool Warehouses and Produce Stores,
CIRCULAR QUAY
and
DARLING HARBOUR, SYDNEY,
AIR-TIGHT SHOW CASE COMPY.,
67 GEORG HI STREET WEST.
SHOP,
OFFICE,
AND
Hotel-bar
FITTERS
Air-tight
SHOW
CASES
AT
LONDON
PRICES.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
P'
BLIC
NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 482 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
flu, TWO DOORS NORTH OF OLD Sir to
tWvuWlu^oi
Utmim,
32 COLLEGE STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
ARTIFICAL TEETH on the mostapproved Eng-
lish Principles, Fitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastica-
tion, Natural Appearance, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping, Scaling, and Extractions skilfully
performed.
James Carroll,
FREE SELECTORS’ & MINERS’ LAND
AGENT,
WENTWORTH HOUSE, CHURCH HILL,
SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
FOWLER’S POTTERY and
BRICKWORKS,
CAMJPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of .
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
EngilHli Papers and Magazines received by
every MalL
ROYAL ARCADE. 486 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Pianos! Pianos! Pianos!
FREE TRADE and NO MONOPOLY.
Live and Let Live, these are Our Mottoes.
It Is a well-known fact that the Foundations c f
Colossal Fortunes have been established upon the
Profits arising- from the SALE OF PIANOS in this
City during the past Twenty Years by those
having little or no knowledge of the Construction
and Details of the Pianoforte. While giving the
Public the benefit ot our Mr. Young's 85 years'
personal practical experience (I years in John
Broadwood and Sons. London, and 20 in N.S.W.).-
we will, at the same time, be satisfied with a fair
percentage on the Co-operative Principle, sharing
the Profits with our Customers. We will sell from
25 per cent, less than the same class of 1 nstrument
can be Purchased at any Music Shop in Sydney,
and we will offer nothing for Sale we cannot
guarantee. American Organs at proportionately
low prices. Also a Large Stock of Kohn’s Cele-
brated Austrian Furniture, a single article of
which we are selling at Wholesale Prices.
Come and See Our LITTLE BEAUTIES in Wal-
nut and Full Iron Frame, at £35 cash, Eleswhere
£10 more, or under a Liberal Time Payment Sys-
tem.
George E. Young and Co.,
285 PITT STREET,
South of Royal Arcade.
Singer’s Sewing Machines.
TURNER & CO.
Are the Recognised Agents of the
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS:
3s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week—2s. fid. per week.
And no interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
ISr BEWARE OP IMITATIONS.
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE “SINGER/'
TURNER & COMPANY,
363 George-street
THE ONLY “SINGER.”
Turner and Company,
578 GEORGE STREET.
Champagne
Heidsieck & Go’s.
DRY M0N0P0LE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL BICHABDS & Co., Loudon.
Sole Agents for Heidsieck & Co., Reims.
GARTON’S HOTEL,
SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. O. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 345.
SEARL & SONS,
NURSERYMEN, SEEDSMEN, BOUQUETIST8,
And Artistic Floral Dinner-table Decorators,
3 and 5 GEORGE-STREET MARKETS, SYDNEY;
Also,
BLAIR ATHOL NURSERY, PETERSHAM.
Pelargoniums now in full bloom. Inspection
invited.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
i. URALQIA, HEADACHE, TOOTH AC IE,
RAINS, BRUISES, r5URNS. SCALP 1, &c and
aken internally cures DIARRHOEA., r TSEA: iRY,
1BAMPS, COLIC, and all other iUtbrnc aches
ud pains.
frlce, Q/- Sold LverywHere.
C. E. MOULTON, sole prop : ir
MELBOURNE . DjN EY.
PAINT
Yj
BOAR S HEAD STOUT.-Thle favourite brai..i
of Stout selected with great care from taa
best of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
cannot be excelled. To be procured everywhere.
CATTELL A 00„ Bole Agents.
v Correspondence Solicited
WITH RESPONSIBLE PARTIES
POB, the leading
I SEWING MACHINE OF THE WORLD.
I Pull particulars, catalogue and prices I
■ -mailed on application. 1
® SEWING MACHINE C0.^>
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL, CUDAL.
To Travelling Companies, Lecturers, &c.
TO LET, the above large and well-appointed
Hall. Sitting accommodation for over 300
people; splendid piano, scenery, &c. Terms
reasonable. Apply to
H. HURLEY TORR,
Hon. Secretary,
School of Arts, Cudal
“A BULLETIN OR MANIFESTO.”
IF YOU ARE ABOUT TO FURNISH, you
cannot do better than write for a COPY OF
OUR NEW BOOK, containing revised HOUSE
FURNISHING LISTS, AND MEMOS. OF
REDUCED PRICES'.—Post Free, Everywhere.
Campbell Brothers,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT THE ROYAL HOTEL.
AS USUAL, our Large Stock of Imported
XMAS CARDS
cannot be excelled in Sydney for beauty and
chasteness of design and diversity of subject, at
prices to suit all classes, at
SANDON’S, George-street,
OUR Hand-painted Xmas CARDS for this
season are a marvel of beauty and design,
and moderate in price ; large stock to select from,
at
SANDON’S, 310 George-street,
near Hunter-street.
XMAS AND NEW YEAR’S CARDS
in endless variety. Parcels suitable for the
trade, from 10s. upwards, sent per post, best value
in Sydney, at
SANDON’S, 310 George-street.
Water Police Office,
Sydney, 14th November, 1883.
NOTICE is hereby given, that a SPECIAL
MEETING of the Metropotitan Licensing
Court will be holden at the Water Police Court,
Phillip and Albert streets, Sydney, at noon on
THURSDAY, the 6th day of December, 1883.
IP. C. LUCAS, C.P.S.
JEWELLERY, JEWELLERY. JEWELLERY.
CASH SALE.
EXTENSIVE ALTERATION TO PREMISES.
LAM It & FAIRFAX, 23 Hunter-street,
beg to inf i m their customers and the public that
they are now offering their carefully-selected
Stock at a Reduction of 35 per cent.
Five Shil.ings in the Pound taken off plain marked
previous prices.
N.B.—As Christmas is close at hand, the opportu-
nity should not be missed of purchasing intended
gifts.
POPULAR CONCERTS^
PROTESTANT HALL.
: ‘OPULAB ARTISTS ! •
Conduct©
POPULAR PRICES—3s. and Is.
... Mr. Charles Huemerbexn
The small punters who backed Dirk Hat-
teraick for the Cup on the strength of “the dream”
(and their name is legion) will not feel any happier
when they learn that the owner had not the
smallest hope of Dirk proving successful. An
unsuccessful backer was. heard to remark that he
believed “.some d d bookmaker dreamt that
dream.” Very likely the U.B. was “there or
thereabouts” in his surmise.
Recently, in one of our coast townships,
resided a police magistrate. The other day he
was removed to a larger and far-inland town, and
this is the way he gets it off on to the simple
denizens of the Plains. “ Yes, gentlemen, I can
assure you it is a fact. The man was a cedar-
getter on the Bellinger, and he chopped his foot
clean in two. No doctor within forty miles, and,
of course, I was sent for. Poor fellow in great
agony. First thing I did, asked for the piece of
the foot. They brought it—by far the largest half
—still in the severed boot. Taking it out, I
attached it very carefully by sewing to what was
left of the original foot, or stump, I may call it,
as there was little except the heel, bound the
whole firmly together, and I give you my word of
honour, gentlemen, that in nine days exactly that
man was hard at work swinging his axe again.”
Auditors driuk the narrator’s health generally in
solemn silence.
The growing deafness of the Princess of
Wales must make things unpleasant for a good
many people, who—just once in their lives—are
brought in close contact with that amiable lady.
In the event of the Prince and Princess paying a
visit to any provincial town, an elaborate code of
instructions is forwarded to the local officials,
whose duty it is to receive the distinguished
guests; strict injunctions are laid on the Mayor to
accommodate himself to Her Royal Highness’
lameness by walking very slowly, and—as he must
never get one inch in front of his future queen—
he finds himself considerably embarrassed if he
happens to have been in the foremost rank when
legs were given out. Again, the unfortunate
Mayor is particularly desired to raise his voice
while addressing H.R H., as she is slightly deaf,
and now that this latter infirmity is getting more
developed, faithful subjects will find them-
selves getting very hot and uncomfortable over
the task of giving satisfactory answers to the Royal
questions without at the same time shouting in
the Royal ear. Many people may be surprised to
learn that no address (in the provii oes) is ever
read to the Prince and Princess without having
been previously submitted to an equetry in
London. This flunkey never, by any chance,
approves of the original draft, but requires it to
be altered two or three times before being pro-
nounced as satisfactory.


n
JAMES YOUNG, Sole Agent,
No. 9 CHANGE ALLE^.
ADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns
of
Dresses, Manti.ep, &c m
and
Weigel’s Journal of
Fashions,
which contains the latest styles, are sold by the
following agents
George Slater, Stationer, 39 Oxford-st., Sydney
Mrs. Beales. Fancy Repository, Regent-st., Redfern
Mrs. T. H. Griffiths, Milliner, 335 King-st., Newtown
Mrs. C. Chapman, Fancy Repository, Church-st.
south, Parramatta
Principal Retail Office:
161 KING-STREET (near Bllzabeth-st.), Sydney.
Schweppes Mineral Waters,
as supplied
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN AND ROYAL
FAMILY,
CAN be obtained of the principal Hotel-keepers,
Wine Merchants, and Chemists throughout
the colonies.
SODA-WATER, LEMONADE, GINGER ALB,
POTASS, LITHIA (for gout) SELTZER,
TONIC, MAGNESIA WATERS.
51 BERNBR8-STREET, LONDON;
58 MARGARBT-8TREET, SYDNEY.
WRIGHT, HEATON & GO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom house
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE:
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
PARRITtRS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.8.W.;
loulburn Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rock
Culcalrn
Cowabee
Narandera
Hulong
Carrathool
Ease
Bownlng
Binalong
Harden
Eoung
□ootamundra
lunee
Hay
Western District, N.S.W.:
Capertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
Nevertlre
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblln
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
Northern District, N.8.W.;
lorpeth Brewarrina
iunnedah Tamworth
i atrabrl Uralla
Ealgett
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Line:
trlsbane Yeulba
,oma
lalby
.ockhampton
ogantungan
merald
Cambooya
Central. Line;
Capella
Comet
Northern Line:
Ravenswood Junction
Townsville
Charters Towers
Agents in Victoria and South Australia;
WM. MCULLOCH & CO., LIMITED.
Agencies in all parts of the world.
•MBRELLAS
he-covered.
C1TUDY ECONOMY
iO and
Have yourU mbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill,wetween
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
cuted.
KING TAWHIAO.
Monk’s New Zealand Herbal
Remedies (Registered).
IT
m
Trade mark—“ King Tawhiao.”
The n.z. herbal extract
can be administered to Infants of the most
tender age, and to all other patients, however >eak
and delicate, with perfect safety and certainty of
IMMEDIATE RELIEF AND EARLY CURB.
THE N.Z. HERBAL REMEDIES
are made solely
FROM HERBS, SHRUBS, AND BARK,
indigenous to New Zealand only,
and NO DRUGS hitherto known to the medical
world are contained in the above medicines.
The N.Z. Herbal Extract cures ABSOLUTELY
Dysentery, Diarrhoea, Choleratic Diarrhoea, and
Cholera, as NO OTHER medicine yet known to
the world can do. It CURES, equally well, chronic
or acute cases of the WORST kinds, and gives
INSTANTANEOUS RELIEF in every case.
From Capt. Cromarty, U.8.8. “ Penguin.”
Auckland, June 19th, 1883.
Dear Sir,—I am much pleased with the action of
Sour “ Herbal Extract” that you supplied me with,
n the passage to Fiji I cured one man of an
attack of Dysentery with three doses, and on
the return voyage a lady brought a child on
board very ill with Chronic Dysentery, which the
doctors could not cure in Fiji; the second day
the Dysentery stopped and the child left at
Auckland getting quite strong and hearty. I
am, dear sir, yours faithfully.—W. L. Cromarty.
What a Medico Says !
Ranglora, July 7,1881.
Sir,— Having carefully examined the N.Z Herbal
Extract, I find it to be a skilfully prepared vege-
table preparation, possessing the properties of the
plants from which it Is derived in a highly con-
centrated state, a fact which I have verified by
evaporating a fluid drachm placed in a watch-
glass over a spirit lamp. On weighing the result,
a dark green extract, 1 found the weight to be 14)4
grains. On further submitting the extract to
analysis I found it to be rich in tannin. In a large
number of cases of ordinary diarrhoea, as well as
in many chronic cases and in dysentery, I have
proved it to contain great specific control, added
to the unusual feature in a majority of diarrhoea
medicines, that it does not subsequently constipate
the bewels. I fell satisfied that, from the number
of trials I have been enabled to make of it in a
somewhat extensive practice, it is a most valuable
addition to modern therapeutics.
(Signed)
Charles DkLaoy MacCarthy, M.A., M.B., Ac.,
Trinity College, Dublin,
Surgery, Ranglora, July 1881.
Davis-street, Petersham, Nov. 8,1883.
Sir,—It is with great pleasure that I am able to
inform you that I think after taking another
bottle or two I shall be entirely cured. I am
unable to get any more for a day or so, but will
call on you as soon as possible. The enclosed is a
letter from a gentleman who has known what a
sufferer I have been, and I send it to you so that
you could see it was a severe case. Sincerely
thanking you, sir, 1 remain, yours respectfully,
To Mr. Monk. Wm. Provost.
Petersham, November 3rd, 1883.
I have known Mr. William Provost to be suffer-
ing from Chronic Dysentery for the last two and a
half years.— John Denning, Builder, Petersham.
Sydney, 23rd October, 1888.
H. D. Monk, Esq., Sydney.
Sir,—I have much pleasure in stating that I
have on two occasions been cured of attacks of
Diarrhoea by the use of your remedy. The first
time was in New Zealand when travelling with the
Tambour Major Opera Company, and I had
another attack, which lasted eight days till yester-
day, when two doses you kindly gave me at your
office have again completely cured me. Yours
gratefully, (Signed) John B. Cook.
Monk’s New Zealand Herbal Mixture
for Neuralgia.
The mixture acts like a charm in the above pain-
ful disease, and giving instantaneous relief,
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
From Captain Kennedy, U.S.S. “ Haurotc,”
Port Chalmers, February 7th, 1883.
Dear Sir, —Thanks for the Medicine you were
kind enough to send me. I have only to say that
in my case—a severe attack of Neuralgia In the
head—it afforded me considerable relief. It has
also the advantage of not toeing in the least nause-
ous like most remedies,
Mr. H. D. Monk.
I remain, dear sir.
Yours faithfully,
A. Kennedy.
17 Macquarie-place, Sydney, Oct. 27th, 1883.
Horace D. Monk, Esq., 99 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Dear Sir,—A few days past I informed you that
I had been suffering from Neuralgia for three
weeks in succession, and, acting upon your sug-
Sestlon, I took a small bottle of your famous
euralgio Mixture, which has, I am happy to say,
cured me entirely of my complaint. I shall lose
no opportunity of recommending your valuable
medicine to all my friends who pass sleepless
nights (such as I have done) solely from the effects
of Neuralgia—I am yours truly,
C. Milton Gannon.
Wholesale: ELLIOTT BROS., Wholesale Chemists;
or.
HORACE I). MONK & FRED. J. MUIR A CO.,
99 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
Foster ’s Bugle Brand.
li
ms
baIS
mm
AMD
ALL
CHEST AFFECTIONS
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
WIRE WORKERS, 7
\1\J I8H to call your attention to WIRE GOODS
t T we make and have In stook as under :—
FLOWER STANDS, for holding' flowers In pots,
made of iron and wire, handsomely framed and
bronzed, suitable for rooms, halls, balconies, ver-
andahs, and conservatories. Also, WIRE FERN
BASKETS, all sizes and prices.
SIEVES and SCREENS, for screening lime,
gravel, coal, &o., all meshes, from 1 hole to 100
holes to the squares Inch.
WIRE LATTICE-WORK, for protection of win-
dows from breakage caused by nail-storms or boys’
throwing stones. Also, WIRE NETTING, all sizes,
from 12 in. to 72 in. wide.
CAGES of every description, for canaries and
parrots, singly or in nests, suitable for store-
keepers.
And every description of WIRE WORK made on
the premises.
EASTWAY. BROTHERS,
413 GEORG B-8TRBBT.
|3f~ Illustrated Catalogues on application.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
IV. H. Ariell and Co.’s Agencies.
SWALLOW & ARIBLL’S prize Biscuits. Canter-
bury, Normanby, and Christmas Family Cakes,
Plum Puddings, Mincemeat, Self-raising
ACrated Flour, Infant’s Food, Treacle and
Golden Syrup.
EXCELSIOR MXLL8,—Superior Victorian Oat-
meal and Pearl Barley.
DILLON & BURROWS’ prize assorted Confec-
tionery.
J. KITCHEN & SONS, No. 1 Mottled and Toilet
Soaps.
J. F. M f KBNZIB & CO.’S Coffee, Mustard, Cocoa,
Tea, in Hslb. and lib, packets ; dressed Rice,
and Patent Groats.
HUNT & CO.’S Prize Baking Powders, Adelaide
Jams Paper Bags, &c.
343 and 346 RENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
BLEND
[trade]
Ai
•—"V
COLLIE BLEND WHISKT.-This is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
omlng fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
Christmas Season, 1883-84.
GEO. ROBERTSON
Begs to announce
THAT HIS MAGNIFICENT STOCK
of
CHRISTMAS
AND
NEW YEAR S CARDS
FOR THE COMING SEASON,
IS NOW OPEN FOR SELECTION.
GEORGE ROBERTSON,
361 George-street.
JOHN P. COWLES,
Tea Inspector, Packer, & [Shipper,
FOOCHOW, CHINA.
The gun hagai herald.
Pastoral Gazette & Farmers’ Chronicle,”
With which is incorporated the
TEMORA HERALD & MINING JOURNAL,”
Published every
WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
The popular paper of the district.
W. H. L. BAILEY, Proprietor.
Theatrical Job Printing, and box office for
Assembly Hall.
Set
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
"shy a'lYd ssva
The BEST ALB and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
Robert butcher & c o„
(Late William Long),
gap- WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT.
534 GEORGE STREET.
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL. SYDNEY
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
IS.
TO CpNNOlSfitJRS of WHISKEY A
W. A A. GUbey’s CASTLE BRA|._
KEY and L’OR EXTRAIT BRAjSDT ate the
oldest and purest spirits Imported.
TUCKER A CO., Agents,
377 George-street.
EVERT DESCRIPTION OF FISHING TACKLE,
Wholesale and Retail.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
413 GEORG IS STREET.
A. GORMAN,
Late of the Telegraph Hotel, Inverell,
HAS OPENED THE
‘ Cla.re3nLd.033.,’
Comer of ELIZABETH k PARK Streets,
And which he intends to keep asa first-class Hotel,
A. G. hopes, by strict attention te Business, to
gain a share of their PATRONAGE V IBITOHS
will find this surpasses most of the leadlhg
HOTELS for ACCOMODATION and eVory CON-
VENIENCE ; and, as it overlooks HYDE PARK, It
must necessarily be WELL VENTILATED.
SUITES of ROOMS for FAMILIES,
as per agreement.
HOT and COLD WATER BATHS.
PORTER in Attendance Day and Night.
It is not necessary to mention the quality of the
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, &o. Ac,, as he is, and al-
ways has been, noted throughout tha COLON I BP
for selling nothing but the very bast
W n
:lcox
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £410
HEBBLEWHITE & CO.’
416 GEORGE STREET.
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn shellers
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
WALNUT
Wood,
Ac. Ac. Ac
*
DINNER, 4
ONE SHILLING.
I /c,
5 ✓ %
V PITT STREET.
as
C
p
Si >
K
te fS >
O B ”4
F° CC rs
S3
A
NEXT TATTERSALL’S.
All Meals One Mhlllln*.
J. C. GREENFIELD, PitoPHUtTOR.


315 George Street.
A few of our undertakings MOST SUCCESS
FULLY carried out, among which will he found
the LARGEST, MOST DIFFICULT, and MOST
RESPONSIBLE events that have taken place since
the opening of this establishment.
His Worship the MAYOR’S PICNIC, for 450, at
Clontarf.
His Worship the MAYOR’S BALL, for 1600, Exhi-
bition Building, at which his Worship, John
Harris, entertained their R.H.’s PRINCES AL-
BERT and GEORGE, HARL CLAN WILLIAM,
and the Officers of the Detached Squadron.
Visit of their R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Llthgow Valley Mines and Zigzag.
Dinner d la Russe, for ®0, In Government Palace
Dining Car while travelling.
Government Refreshment to 16,000 8CH OOL CHIL-
DRBN— re Queen’s Statue Demonstration—under
VERY SHORT NOTICE, only receiving the
order at 2.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot at 12.30
p.m. the following day.
Visit of THEIR R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Captain Cook’s Landing, south side
of Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon and refresh-
ment, for 100, under VERY SHORT NOTICE, re-
ceiving order at 9.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot
at 1 p.m. following day.
MINISTERIAL ENCAMPMENT at the
NATIONAL PARK, Friday and Saturday, 5th
and 6th October, 1883. Breakfasts, Luncheons,
Dinners, &o., for 120 gentlemen.
The LADY MAYORESS’ RECEPTIONS, Town
Hall.
The UNION CLUB BACHELOR’S BALL, at Bxni-
bition Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE WINDEYER
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE INNE8.
Dinner a la Ruxse at St. Paul’s College, for 150 Me . -
bers of the CHURCH OF ENGLAND SYNOD.
Dinner d la Rusne to the INTERCOLONIAL RIF 1 K
TEAMS, Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshment bars at HA WKB»
BURY RACES, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at RANi»-
WICK RACES, in Grand Stand.
The CONSULAR DINNER. In our uew Banquet
Room.
ARMIDALB RAILWAY Demonstrations. Ban
quet for 400; MAYOR’S BALL, 600, same evenlno
and CITIZEN'S BALL, 500, the following even-
ing.
ALBURY- WO DONGA RAILWAY DEMONSTRA-
TION—Grand Government Banquet for 1016
at Albury. Grand Ball, 800, following night.
Children’s feast, 1184, the following afternoon
and evening. Also, Breakfasts, Dinners, Teas,
and Suppers, in Government Dining Car, to
His Exckulkncy Lord Augustus Loftus, the
Ministry, and Ms.P., while travelling to and
from Banquet, &c., &c.
Numerous Banquets and Entertainments by His
WORSHIP THE MAYOR at Town Hall,
Numerous Dinners d la Rvju te in the N.8.W
GOVERNMENT PALACE DINING CAR, whi.e
travelling by rail, on account of the GOVERN-
MENT.
Together with a numerous lot of Private
Feasts, Weddings, Garden Parties, BaUs, Tea
Meetings Laud Sales, Suppers, Picnics, Fishing
Excursions, &o.
One evening, at the Legislative Assembly,
Mr. David Buchanan having 1 been rather more ex-
cited and noisy than usual, a brother Scot, who
was “in the ironmongery" line, with the kindest
of intentions ventured to suggest that David
should go outside for a while and reflect and gene-
rally cool himself. But David savagely turned
upon bis would-be friend, thus: “What the deevil
d’ye tak me for, mon ? and wha the deevil are ye
to give me advice ? Why, I tell ye you are merely
an incrustation of iron—your whole being is iron.
Your brains areiron; your stomach is iron-plated;
and when I allude to you as a man, I merely do it
in an ironical way.” Mac. wept, and David struck
up “ Sally in our alley.”
Umbrella piracy is carried ou with daily
increasing audacity. And the victim fondly
dreams to soften the pirate into restitution by
inserting ads. in the daily press praying the gentle-
man who took his I6-ribber by mistake to oblige
him (the victim) to leave same office Buggins and
Dray, O’Connell-street; which imbecile practice is
simply a throwing of good money away after had.
The Rev. J. Auld, of Ashfleld, a late victim, hum-
bles himself to the ground with a view of inspir-
ing the pirate with compassion. He (the reverend
Auid) thus puts his case:—** Will the YoungGentle-
man whose Umbrella I accidentally exchanged for
my own, kindly ask for it from the stationmaster
at Ashfleld, or send me his address.” We’re game
to bet our boots that even that ingenious abject-
ness won’t move the stony one’s bowels of com-
passion. Here is the right style of umbrella
proclamation “ The atrocious miscreant who
maliciously prigged my umbrella had better look
out. Should I come across him with it in his
possession, I swear by all the gods to wrench it
from his filthy grasp and make its stick acquainted
with his dirty back.— Buggins.”
Mr. Bierce, editor of the San Francisco'
Wasp, thus writes about Charles De Young, of the
Chronicle, which has been publishing a lot of
sensational Hawaiian leper stories:—“ The mean-
est maundering of a spiteful mind that has ever
found expression in a public print is that of the
Chronicle’s Thersites at the Hawaiian band.
Out of pure good will these gentlemen—whose
only offence is that Mike De Young’s hands are
filthy with the dishonest gold of eastern sugar
refiners—came from their island homes to assist at
a pageant which they probably thought had
some national significance, and which the
Chronicle has for weeks been promoting
by every art known to that most detest-
able of parasites, a people’s sycophant. No
sooner do they land than this plague-spotted
mental and moral outcast—this incurable Lazarus
of the slums, baning all dogs of compassion with
the virus of his sores, and infesting the pitying
breezes that dry-wash his crusted carcass, thrusts
a rotting finger from his horrible rags to point
them out as lepers 1 This out-patient of Hades—
this incarnate effluvium from the waste-dump ol
the moral hospital—this speckled beauty smitten
with sin-this ditch-dank beggar daubed with the
essential oils of pestilence—this walking contagion
endeavours to quarantine thirty cleanly and
wholesome gentlemen in the death-soaken hulk of
his disfavour, till they satisfy the desires of his
malice and the demands of his cupidity. Appa-
rently, he has not succeeded.” De Young had
not, at last accounts, concluded to answer the
above effusion, and the Wasp was soaking its sting
in vitriol.
The papers regarding the Dunlop versus
Moore “ sorimmidge” have appeared, and are as
amusing as a Salvation Army sermon. It will be
remembered that on the 20th December last, Mr.
Dunlop and his newly-married wife were observ-
ing nature from a seat in the Botanical Gardens.
They were tete-a-tete, and the lady, being delicate,
was supported by her husband’s arm, in the man-
ner so much in vogue among young people when
wobbling through the valse d deux temps or strolling
at eventide by the “long wash of Australasian seas.”
Then (according to Mr. Dunlop) Mr. Charles Moore
came along and chipped into the conversation in a
manner which his worst enemies couldn’t deny
was at least forcible, whatever opinions may be
entertained about Its politeness. Mr. Moore’s pro-
vince appears to be horticulture and morality. In
pursuit of this, he keeps one eye on the plants and
the other on the people. So, when he saw how
things were progressing, his sense of duty
mastered his natural bashfulness, and (again
according to Mr. D.) he waltzed in with: “What the
hell sort of conduct is this in the public gardens ?
When Mr. D. attempted to explain the tender re-
lationship existing between himself and the lady,
the Moore—incredulous as he of Venice was to his
wife’s protestations —brought matters to a climax
by saying (vide evidence) he didn t “ care a damn
who she was or what she was. ’ Then Messrs-
Coonan and Kyau, solicitors, demanded an apology t
and—of course—£2 2s. The obdurate curator re-
plied that apologies and costs were not much in
his line, and innocently requested to know to
whom the letter referred-" whether to the couple
lying on the upper lawn who were hugging and
kissing each other in a most indelicate manner, or
to the couple who were on the seat under the
willow tree, near a pond, the woman being locked
in the man’s arms with their heads in contact,”
with the further facer: “It will not, I presume,
be contended for one moment that an establish-
ment of this kind is a suitable place for such dis-
plays of uxorious affection as those referred to.”
Considering that the first displays of uxorious
affection of which we have any record took place
in a garden open to the limited public of the time,
Mr. Moore should have seen at once that " prece
dent ’ was against him. He was condemned and
fined 20s., or a week. He appealed to the
Under-Secretary. The appeal appears in the
parliamentary paper before us. In it he
asserts that, even in his angriest moments, when
the great deep ot his moral nature was lashed into
violence by man’s ingratitude and woman’s incon-
stancy, he never uttered the word “ hell. This
seems to us the weakest plate in iiis armour. For
34 years to direct the affairs of an impoitaut insti-
tution in N.S.W., and never say “ hell,” can only
be paralleled by Washington and his historical
little hatchet. For years it was our boast that
among all our acquaintances wc were the only one
that-even under the greatest provocation never
used a word which would be out of place at a
Queen’s drawing-room. Wo [Get out. Ed. B.]
VANITY FAIR.
Falkner, who edited the Dublin Journal,
announced in glowing terms 1 he arrival of a dis-
tinguished member of the British nobility. Next
day his paper contained the following very Hiber-
nian correction:—“For ‘Her Grace the Duke,’ In
yesterday’s journal, read ‘ His Grace the Duchess.’ ”
— The daughter of a well-to-do merchant has just
returned from Paris, where she says she walked
through the Tooralooral, and visited a shottoe
where she saw the statues of Physic and Catherine
de Medicine.. .A stable odour pervaded the dining-
room. Stable boys and grooms had been pressed
into the service as waiters, as the guests were
numerous and fastidious. Then a tremendous
smash, that lifted the hostess out of her chair, was
heard outside the door. “ It’s only the coachman
going out with the break,” whispered one of the
guests to his neighbour, and silence fell upon the
party Red heels to ladles’ boots are coming in
again. When heels are at their highest fashion,
take to colouring them, lest perchance their stilted
imperfections should pass unnoticed. When pink
stockings were in vogue, Charles Lamb, then in
his salad davs, described modesty as taking her
flight from earth, and being last visible to mortals
by her “glowing instep.” Now we might
say that modesty has taken to her heels,
aud that the latter blush as they vanish
There is a galaxy of songsti esses in Mr. Abbey’s
programme, whose humble pittances range thus:
Madame Christine Nilsson, £1000 per month for
singing ten times monthly; Madame Sembrich,
£3000 per month; Madame Scalchi, £1000; Madame
Trebelll, £1200; Madame Alwlna Valleria, £80o—
Sixpences have not flowed Into the Tupper Testi-
monial Fund with that sudden rush which would
indicate that the national heart had been touched
by the appeal. However,
The poet Martin Farquhar Tupper
Sang no songs and gets no supper.
A woman of 50, made up to look about 25, got
into a tramcar and found every seat occupied.
She stood for a moment, and then selecting a
poorly-dressed man of forty-five years of age, she
observed. “ Are there no gentlemen in this car ?
“Indeed, 1 dunno,” he replied, as he looked up
and down. There was an embarrassing silence for
a moment, and then a light broke on him all of a
sudden, and he arose and said, “You can have this
seat, madam. I am always perfectly willing to
stand up and give my seat to anyone older than
myself.’’ That decided her. She withered him
with a look, and refused to sit down.. ..
The latest novelty in the male costume is a further
development of that principle of economy which
suggested that no gloves should be worn. The
idea is to dispense with the waistcoat, and have
the trousers made somewhat higher. This, too, is
for evening full-dress. It is hoped that the leaving-
off innovation will stop at this. — Languid Swell,
who sees pretty girl in railway carriage: Is this
seat engaged, Miss ?” “ No, sir, but I am, and ne s
«rointf to get in at the next station- Oh—-ah
indeed,” &c.... An exquisite divine, thoroughly up
in all modern refinements, recently put the touch
on a marriage ceremony thus: “1 now pronounce
you husband and lady.” Th® audience stuffed
their handkerchiefs into their mouths, and got out
of the church as quickly as possible, to take breath.
....The worst case of “dog mania” ever known
has been discovered at a Saratoga hotel, where a
woman has a black-and-tan that cost Lot). She
apparently worships the little animal, and recently
ordered for it earrings and a gold collar of a
special pattern. The earrings are worth L200, and
the collar, which is studded with emeralds and
pearls, £300. A special servant is provided
to feed fhe dog and attend him when his
mistress does not have him in charge
A well-known society lady has a daughter of 14,
who is very pretty and has been completely
spoilt by admiration. Sho thinks of nothing save
her beauty. A friend of her family asked her the
other day: “ You have got a new little girl baby
at your house, haven’t you ?” “Yes, we ve got a
little baby.” “ How is she getting on ?” “ Oh,
they say she will be pretty, too, when she grows
up. A Golden Wedding —Young Alfred, who
is about to get married, said to a friend: “ Recol-
lect you are invited to the celebration of my
golden wedding, which is tc take place in a fort-
night.” “What, your golden wedding?” “Yes,
why do you ask? You surely did not expect
that I was going to marry for love?’* —
Miss Minnie Palmer, now performing at the Grand
Theatre, Islington, is a very ingenious lady. She
announces that, by the terms of her engagement
with her American manager, “she cannot marry
or engage herself in marriage for five years, ex-
cept under a forfeit of £3000." But what is filthy-
lucre in comparison with love ? So. if some eligible
swain is prepared to marry Miss Palmer, and pay
the £3000, it is just possible she might raise but
little objection. This is a charming novelty in the
way of testing true love It will doubtless become
a point of honour with impulsive peers’ sons and
millionairelings to ransom the fair creatures thus
caught in the toils of calculating agents...
A wealthy and ironical Berlin woman sent letters
to all her relatives, inviting them to come and see
her “ on an important family matter.” They came
I in expectation and in troops, and were received at
the station by her two sons. On arriving at the
house, it was discovered that the good dame had
taken the opportunity of hanging herself, and had
left behind her nothing but numerous invitations
to her funeral ..Among the prominent society
women in London is an old lady, 83 years of age,
who is quite a wonder. She has a very youthful
figure, and across a room would be taken for a
woman of 30. Her complexion is enamelled, and
she always wears in the evening' the regulation
decoUetie neck and short sleeves, dressing in the
height of fashion and in youthful colours. She is
an accomplished equestrienne, sits very gracefully
on her horse, and wears a tall beaver hat when
riding. She seems to be in perfect health, and is a
great favourite with young people, who always
crowd about her. She is a fascinating talker
After the race. First Stable Lad: “Hain’t it odd,
Bill? ‘ H ’ hagin has took it. Second Ditto:
“Ow’s that?” First 8.L.; “ Hassyriad last year:
Martini-Henery this.” Second S L.: “Yes, and
Hiolanthe won the Marib’nong Plate.” First S. L.:
“ Yes, and Harchie oughter won the Derby.”
Second S.L.: “My word, the H’s was in it up to
their I’s.” A bad case. MlssJones: “Youlook
seedy, dear. Not quite got over the races yet?”
Mrs. de Smythe : “No, dear; not quite, ."till
suffering a recovering from that ‘ delirium of
trimmings.’” And Miss Jones went about saving
that poor Mrs. de Smythe was only just getting
over her ‘delirium tremens.’ ” —A newly-married
couple went out the other day to look at a bouse
in the suburbs, purchased with the wife’s money.
“ It’s very nice,” she remarked, “but you wouldn’t
have got it without my money.” “ Nor would you
have got me without it,” was the calm reply. Her
paiasol was a complete wreck in another minute.
., Sir William Armstrong has been considering
the problem of the probable increase in the popu-
lation of England, and has made public the tact
that its rapid growth is adverse to moral develop-
ment; further, in his opinion its further increase
must be controlled by legislation. His idea is that
“the State must limit the number of a man’s
children.” “ Gentlemen of the jury, the prisoner
at the bar has been charged with having a baby, he
having already exceeded his allowance by one. Do
you And him guilty or not guilty ?” “Guilty, my
Lord, under strong provocation, and we hereby
recommend him to mercy.”
Jacob and William Low, of Welltown
Station, MTntyre River, were far from being
popular men in their immediate neighbourhood—
that is to say, with the surrounding squatters in
whose dictum as to the rate of wages to be paid
for fencing, dam-making, &o., the Lows would in
no way coincide, believing themselves, who had
been through the “mill,” to be as good judges of
what work really was worth, as those who had
never done a day of it in their lives. Hence, the
rate of wages was always higher on Welltown than
on any of the surrounding stations. Another main
cause of their unpopularity was the kindness they
showed towards the blacks, to whom they owed
everything they possessed; and whatever faults
the dead and gone Lows may be credited with, in-
gratitude to white or black will never rank
amongst them. When, in the “ big drought ”
Welltown laid grassless and almost waterless under
the scorching sky. when the Weir and the Boomi
were but dried-up mud—when white shepherds
fled in dismay, leaving their flocks in the yards, or
out on the run—when the ruin of an almost won
fortune stared the brothers in the face —then the
blackfellow came to the rescue, mustered the
scattered flocks, travelled them into every corner
of the immense run, protecting them from the
dingoes and the alien blacks, taking them through
the young pine scrubs that they might gnaw the
tender bark, and so, after a weary desolate time,
saved by far the greater portion. Was it any
wonder that through the after years the
Lows cherished and helped their dark saviours ?
Hough, unpolished men they both were, but, as we
once remember hearing a stalwart bushman aver
most emphatically, “ Fair, by ! Fair as a
die!” On the back blocks of Welltown nothing
could be got by sinking but salt water, and Jacob,
when in Brisbane, fallixg in with a well-known
scientific botanist, was by that gentleman told
that it he sank a well where the “ koord ” (native
Queensland cherry) tree grew he would be sure
to get it fresh. Up to the station came old Low,
engaged a party of well-sinkers, and atonce drove
them out twenty miles from the head station and
set them to work under the fresh-water tree, and,
at a depth of 55ft., salt water was struck in any
quantity. Undeterred, and determined to give Mi-.
Gr.’s assertion fair play, he put down four more
wells, each on the spot where the “ koori'S *' grew,
and with in each case a like result; the water, if
possible, salter every time. The last well was
bottomed at 45ft., and Jacob stood by the wind-
lass as the first bucketful came up. Dipping his
pint pot in it, he put it to his lips. “ 8aut agen,
by 1” he exclaimed. “Saut as Lot’s wife, an’
she was jist a ghibber o’ sautl” then, pulling out a
little bottle, he tilled it, saying, “ I’ll tak thatdoun
to Brisbane wl’ me, an’, if I can find that dom’d
auld G , I’ll mak’ him swallow bottle, watter,
an’ a’, or my name isna Jacob Low.” His brother
William once took a trip “ hame.” and when on
his return someone in Goondlwmdi asked him
what he thought of the “ old country ” after so
many years absence, “ Ah, mon,” said he, “ it’s a
gram place the noo, but there’s nae room there: I
couldna draw my breath. Every inch o’ ground’s
takken up.” And still, after all, “old Billy ” went
“ hame” to draw his last breath in the land of
bannocks and Athol-brose.
Yet another candidate for the title of
champion mean man of Australia, and the best of
the “ par.” is that it’s true—that it’s a downright
solid fact. He (the O.M.M.) resides in the Mitchell
district, and he’s a medium squatter—not a very
rich man, but far from being a poor one. It was
Paddy Ryan’s ration day. Pat was one of the
shepherds, and was expected in for his fifteen,
two, and a quarter (15, 2 and a J4). Old
Jumbuck had weighed out Pat’s meat, and put
it by. Presently his aged mother came along, and
happening to weigh it over again, called out to
her son. “Billy, Billy, you’ve only given Paddy
Ryan 141b of meat.” “ Dip it in the brine, mother,
dip it in the brine, and you'll see that’ll fetch the
other pound up,” replied her son ; and to this day
ask the smallest kid in the district the name of
that old man as he rides past, and he will lisp,
“ Ole dip it in the brine.”
THE PROG AND THE WATCH.
1 & 2. Time to go home, and only caught a confounded frog. May as well chuck it
back into the water.
3. Could you oblige by telling me the time, Sir?
4. With pleasure, Madam. (Tableau).


IT CONQUERS PAIN.-HB ADVISES HIS
PERSONAL FRIENDS.
“ Glen View, Darlinghurst,
“ August 17,1883.
“ Messrs. Publishers Bulletin, Sydney.
“ Dear Sirs,—It gives me great pleasure to say, in
the most unqualified manner, that I have found
St. Jacobs Oil the best preparation for Hhematism,
Gout, and other pains, that I have ever used or
known. A member of my family was suffering
from a severe attack of rheumatic gout both in the
hands and feet. The pain was most excruciating.
I suggested her using St. Jacobs Oil, and am pleased
to say the result was of a most satisfactory charac-
ter. After one or two applications the pain en-
tirely loft, and up to the present have had no
return of the trouble. I look on St. Jacobs Oil
as a universal panacea for all kinds of aches and
pains. I have advised many of my personal friends
to give it a trial, and have heard from them that
nothing they had ever used did them so much good.
It is, without doubt,the only Household Remedy
of modern times, and I shall always keep a bottle
within reach.
“I remain, dear Sirs, yours faithfully,
** J, R,, Drewett,**
NOTE.—Mr. Drewett is the well-known town
buyer for Messrs. S. Hoffnung and Company, Pitt-
street, one of the largest and prominent firms in
all Australia.
HOW A USELESS ARM WAS RESTORED IN
TEN MINUTES, or the experience of Edward L.
Green, Esq., Government Sheriff at Auckland,
N.Z.
“Auckland, New Zealand, August 10,1883.
“ Messrs. Publishers Bulletin. Sydney;.
“ Dear Sirs,—I have great pleasure in stating 1
had occasion to use St. Jacobs Oil for an old injury
I received to my shoulder in June, 1883, and from
that date until July 10th last, I could not use my
arm, and found great difficulty in writing. I ap-
Elied to medical men and used all sorts of liniments,
utwithout any benefit; but I had not used St.
Jacobs Oil more than ten minutes before I felt the
beneficial effect, and I can work with my saw or
spade as well as ever I did, and can strongly recom-
mend this oil to any one suffering from muscular
ailments. You can make what use you please ox
this letter for the benefit of others.
“ I remain, dear Sirs, yours, „
“Edward L. Green, Sheriff*
St. Jacobs OIL the groat German uetnedy, con-
quers pain, tjpld by' Druggists, Chemists, ana
Medicine Deanes throughout the world. Price m
New South Wales, baif-a-crown a bottle. Direc-
tions for using in 11 languages.
ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney
Wholesale Depot for N.8.W.
Mr. DeCourcy Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 126 Pltt-street, Sydney.
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Department undertaken. Titles a
speciality.—A d vt.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief:
a email bottle often cures. Ask for ‘ Arnold's
and get it; spurious imitations we sometlrc*
offered.
Rev. John Osborne is going to have a
ohuroh of his own, and is going to take with him
“the whole box and dice ” —congregation, organ-
ist, choir-master, choir, and so on. “ York-street ”
will shortly be to let a s a hay and corn store.
Monour» Conway deso ribes tho Devil in
the Book of Job exactly as if it were a N.S. Wales
Judge dealing with a “ contempt of Court.” He
first appeared in the character of a prosecuting
attorney, then became an accuser, next a calum-
niator, and finally an executioner.
A Melbourne firm lately sent one of their
employes to Sydney. He was to report on the
prospects of opening a branch establishment in
N.8.W. The branch is to be started here, as the
first letter received by the firm from their servant
concluded:—“Tho people in our line here are d
rogues, but they can’t teach us anything.”
Said Gabrasnv, in her issue of Friday
last, “ The holiday which these colonies will cele-
brate to-day will remind them of their relation to
the Empire and to the Throne.” This was a big
lie of the sentimental bunkum order. Not one in
a thousand ever thought of Empire or Throne.
Not one in ten gave so much as a passing thought
to Wales. Any stick will do to beat a dog with—
and any peg (Wales’s birth, or any other incident
in his life) to hang a holiday upon. If a three
days’ spell were gazetted in celebration of a royal
dog-fight, there’d b# every whit as much loyalty
displayed as there was last Friday—loyalty to tho
love of pleasure, you know, without a thought
for tho House of Brunswick or foreign affairs of
that sort. Hogwaahl
This is what the Sy dney D.T. says of the
grounding of the Rodondo:—“In consequence of
what may be termed providential circumstances,
seconded, or supported, by presence of mind on
tho part of Captain Johnson, the Australian com-
munities have been saved from one of those
shocks which attend what is commonly called * a
fearful disaster at sea.’ ” This is worse than any-
thing Ingersoll or Bradlaughever sal dor wrote. As
Divine Providence (seconded by Captain Johnson)
was so instrumental in saving the passengers, it
might have gone a step further and shifted the
reef, so that the vessel w ouldn’t have struck. If
entitled to credit in one case, it is certainly deserv-
ing of blame in the other. This reminds us that
some time ago a confirmed scoffer fell into a tank
in Scotland. He was fished out all right, but, when
the clergyman pointed out that the “index finger of
Providence was plainly discernible in the escape
from drowning,” thesooptlcdwelt onthoawkward
facts that there was no water in the tank, and that,
even if there had been—he was cham pion swimmer
of Great Britain. Our newspapers will soon be as
bad as Portuguese sailors, When the latter have
a prosperous voyage, they bless the “Virgin.”
When the weather is rough, they promise to
swamp her shrine with candles if she only gets
them out of the present scrape. They never ful fll
their engagements:
“ Because, if drowned, they can’t—If saved,
they won’t.”
One Portuguese mariner, it is true, didn’t forget
his promise when he got on shore; but, ns he was
a careful man with a large family, he got tho
bulge on the Chursh by running in a cart-load of
“dips" Instead of “sperms.” And this brings us
back to the D.T. “ The steamship Rodondo was
not, strictly speaking, at sea when she struck on
Point Lonsdale Reef.” There’s a good deal of
truth in this. It was precisely the impression that
suggested itself to the passengers who came tum-
bling up on deck. We offer to Mr. Edmund Smith,
he managing director of the company at Sydney t
our cordial felicitations on having secured the
assistance of Divine Providence—“supported by
Captain Johnson.”
Sir William Morgan, of South Australia,
is dead. It seems hard to believe. But he must
be dead, because the English telegrams say so.
The Press he governed daubs him with funereal
butter, and jerks him up as very high-toned beef
indeed. It is not so long since that Morgan could
only fly on paper wings, as 1 >cal bankers well
knew; but of late, having tided over bad times
resolutely, his profits must have represented quite
a respectable figure. He was a remarkably good
colonist. He believed especially in that colonist’s
good, and never wasted time on such confounded
nonsense as patriotism. Whatever paid best, that
was air William’s king or queen, or commons, as the
case might be. At one time he even found religion
a handy help to business. By an. I bye, other oppor-
tunities offered—away went religion. Then he
discovered money in active politics became a
Minister of the Crown, and so forth. Wringing
everything possible out of this phase, he
discovered “ weakness,” “ ill health, ' and left
Bbenezer Ward to take care of politics.
Higglnson came along and pointed out that New
Caledonia and the French nation might prove
synonyms for ready cash to the ’cute merchant.
Instantly Morgan and Higglnson, Morgan and
Nephew, Morgan and Lord-knows-who, appear in
the Pacific, ship flour, work the Balade Mine, sell
part, sell everything, and pocket Vargent. Then
tho annexation business turns up — Australia
makes remarks about the New Hebrides. “ What ?
our islands,” sang Sir William; “ d-n it all—too
bad! Give me my topcoat and pack my trunk,
Georgel" says Sir William, “ I’ll be off to France
and see about it.” Well, well! This was only the
other day, and now his honoured dust sleeps along-
side his parents! “To what base uses we may
return, Horatio!” Why, even Robert Thomas
burst into poetry for such an occa ion! When
Bob does go for that kind of thing, he spares no
pains—to anybody, we can tell you. The lines ap-
peared in the Observer. He wails his deceased
chieftain as follows— though why Morgan's secret
operations in down should be disclosed, and why
Australian down was not good enough for Morgan
that he should have attempted its manufacture in
an “ English dale,” are mysteries which we pre-
sume will never be thoroughly unravelled. Of
course we Italicise to point the pathos:—
“ Weary with the strife he falling left us,
And sought his English dales to lay him down.
“ So comrades grieve not—that were idle sorrow;
Gird up your loins, take aspirations brave,
And march as he hath marched each day and
morrow,
Jill rest well won awaits thee in the grave.”
The only case in which a “ wearer of the
ermine” may justly be allowed to act as judge,
jury, and prosecutor Is a case of whisky.
Golrlsborough and Co. have sent Mr. Alick
Sinclair, whom every Riverina and Victorian wool-
grower well knows, to second Mr. George Malden in
the Arm’s business here. Shortly we hope to have
all the directors over here.
There is likely to be an exodus of unem-
ployed to Forbes. The bailiff there has obtained
135 writs of distraint upon as many defaulting
ratepayers. He will have to billet “ a man in pos-
session” on each, so that stirring news from that
direction may be looked for.
What may happen to a woman in Northern
Queensland. Margaret Oarette, an ex-teacher
under the N.S.W. Public Instruction Department,
was recently arrested at Charters Towers on a
warrant issued upon the information of her
brother-in-law, and charged with having stolen
his children; the simple facts being that, on her
arrival at the Towers, Anding a quarrel raging
between him and his wife, and the children wan-
dering about the streets, unwashed, unfed, she
took them in and cared for them—for the perpe-
tration of which outrageous offence the local P.M.
Issued a warrant, on which she was arrested and
locked up in the cells along with a drunken
woman. Rutledge should certainly enquire Into
this patently abominable abuse of magisterial
authority.
Some three weeks ago the Melbourne Age
was invited to establish a branch In Adelaide. The
dallies there are both extremly cautious and
cowardly, and dare not even reAect public opi-
nion unless legally guaranteed. Perhaps nowhere
In Australia is there a better Aeld for a strong, en-
terprising newspaper. These facts are well-known
and much resented. Hence the above invitation.
But the Advertiser has probably choked off the
Age by suddenly announcing that, on and after
1st January next, it will bo issued at'the price of
one penny sterling—a reduction of one half. Both
Register and Advertiser are published at two-
pence. Now the conundrum is.—If next year the
Advertiser is worth only a penny, how much is
the Register worth ? The Register can’t, any-
how, be worth double the Advertiser. True,
the former’s proprietary compare it with the
Argus, and declare themselves willing to remain
twopennyworth, and abide the result. But no
other persons compare their property with the
Melbourne Conservative organ, and people in
Adelaide at present are forced to be mighty care-
ful of their pence. By the bye, W. B. Chapman,
late of Sydney, has taken Phil. Benjamin’s sub-
editorship on the Grenfell-street staff. He writes
“ Crumbs.”
Cranachan Farm belongs to five M‘DonaIds.
Mr. Archie M'Donald — one of the five — was
strolling over it, accompanied by a shepherd.
In crossing one paddock, a bull, to satisfy some
private grudge, gave them chase. When a bull is
rapidly shortening the distance between you and
him—when his nose is close to the ground and his
tall in a line with his spine—it Is always best to
postpone the tSte-a-tSte tor some more convenient
occasion, unless there happens to be a post and
rail fence handy, when you might address him
from the other side. This was the shepherd’s
opinion, so he did not wait to argue it out, but
shot to the nearest shelter, where he assumed a
masterly inactivity. Mr. M'Donald was rheumatic,
had to use crutches, and could not run. By means
of the crutches he kept the infuriated animal at
bay for a bit; but the contest was unequal, and,
but for the arrival of Mr. John M'Donald —formerly
champion athlete of Scotland—another would
have been added to the long list of those who suc-
cumbed to bulls. Instead of taking the brute by
the tail and tiring him up a tree, John attacked
him in front, took him by the horns, and dislocated
his neck with one twist. Milo, of ancient Greece,
can now take a back seat, or retire into the
country.
A branch of a very curious sect—the
Chrlstadelphians—exists up in Maryborough, Q.
They believe in a general resurrection, but only a
partial immortality— that is, all will rise again, but
the wicked will be condemned to die finally and
for ever when the last Judgment has taken place.
If the Chrlstadelphians happen to be right, how
lonesome we shall feel in Heaven with nobody
there that knows us I Another of their articles of
faith is fiat “ the earth is not to be burned upi,
but will exist for ever in a renovated state as the
abode of the righteous after the rooting out of the
wioKed.” The righteous will have plenty of
elbow-room if this comes off. Then the Christa-
delphians think the saints—Chrlstadelphian saints,
of course—will reign over the nations for a thou-
sand years. Every saint in this good time coming
will have a river-frontage, a railway running
through his mineral lease, a “ bridge agin his own
door,” and as much of the public money as he
likes to put out his gummy hand for. It will be
good fun to be a saint then—it is, for the matter of
that, to be one now. And so, though hdf the
world is divided against the other half, the Christa-
delphians smile and say nothing. They know that
one day they will share the earth between them.
Heaven help us!
The Prince of Wales must be a very rest-
less young man. Most men, in the heyday of their
youth, would consider themselves fortunate to
possess so charming a wife as the Princess, but
H.tt.H. has a knack, peculiarly his own, of desir-
ing to platonically enjoy the society of other
gentlemen’s wives. Not long ago, the story goes
in London, he received an unpleasant little jar.
His discriminative eye had lit with some admira-
tion on pretty Mrs. Blank (a sister of Lord Dash),
who seemed to be not entirely irresponsive to the
demonstrations of royal regard. Finding, one
day, that circumstances would leave her almost
the sole occupant of her brother’s residence for a
few days, the lady sat at her desk, and with some
pretty palpitation of her fair bosom, wrote a nice
little note to the Prince, explaining how matters
st'iod, and asking him to stroll down. The heir to
the throne took the first train thither. The hall
was thronged with people! Lord Dash, somehow,
had received just an inkling of what was going on,
so he quietly asked everyone he think of with-
in a handy distance, to come; and the Prince, who
couldn’t very well rush away without good reason,
spent about the most insignificant time there that
he has experienced in his flowery path through
life. . . If the Prince wanted to join a Y.M.C.A.
we’re afraid he’d have to re-model his “ set ”
somewhat. That same pretty lady, Mrs. Blank,
for reasons of which the world is profoundly igno-
rant, does not live with Mr. Blank now And as
regards Mr. Blank, we may observe that some
years back he introduced a French Countess with
a husb md attachment into Berkshire society, who
kept up a house in the grandest style, at which
Mr. B. paid frequent and interesting visits. One
day the Countess’s husband disappeared; and
what appeared Instead was the fact that he had
never been her husband, and that the expenses of
the lady’s establishment had been generously de-
frayed by her friend, Mr. Blank. There is no par-
ticular moral to this, so far as we can see; it seems
to be simply an interesting circumstance. It didn’t
even strike the Prince as having any particular
significance either, for Mr. Blank is still one of his
most intimate and esteemed friends. And there-
fore moves in the “ best” society. The Hon.
Lucky Luke White, too, is one of his select set;
and the Duke of Portland, who is a gay butterfly
with gilt-edged wings which have been unfortu-
nately singed a little; also that worthy person, Sir
Frederick Johnstone, who was one co-respondent in
the Mordaunt divorce case, and whom, it Is under-
stood, the heir apparent loves “like a vera
brither.” The earnest assurance of the two gen-
tlemen on a celebrated occasion that they had not
been naughty, “ gave pleasure to all.” Then t..ere
was another great friend of the Prince, the gay
Colonel Baker, who developed such strong tenden-
cies towards frivolity in a railway carriage and for
whom he spoke up manfully. Still, if the Prince
of Wales should ever ready take serious thought of
joining the Y.M.C.A., he will, we feel certain, find
it an advantage to remodel his “ set.”
Halfpenny wise and pounds foolish—Dean
Backhaus.
“Kissedby Her Husband ” is the title of a
new book. A book of fables.
The Yorke’s Peninsula Advertiser
(S.A.) is, perhaps, from a printer’s point of view,
the most original publication beneath the starry
heavens. The “comps.” are sweet-girl-graduate-
mining-captains' daughters. Some of their type-
setting may Interest our readers. We take
examples at random from the issue dated 9th
November. The first concerns the Keely motor:
—“In particular he claims the adoption of the
Keely motor by steamship companies will reduce
the time of the Transatlantic journeys to four
bays. The motor has been before the public for
two years, and has exciteb much interest nor
unmlxed with incte dulity.” “Incte dulity” is
particularly expn ssive. The next paragraph
deals with a South Australian Parliamentary
nuisance, and needs no comments by us—being so
sweetly self-explanatory : “ Mr. Tomkinson
broody.—To poke fun at Mr. Tomkinson is like
trying to tickle a to tortoise with afether—he does
not feel it when drawn up into his shell; but if
you want to draw him out you must you must
him, shell and all, on a nice warm fire and roast
him- Tneh he is like the snapping turtle of
Arkansas—what he shuts his jaws on beholds hard.
Both of the daily papers tickle him with a leather(a
quill pen).and he took no uotice, but when they
made it warm for him for him he soon showed
that he was uot a Salamander. He is like a booby
hen, who will sit as long as you like upon china
eggs, and cluck fiercely if you disturb her, but
only clucks til the more when convinced that they
are china. She will not object to hatch her eggs
if they are pnt under her on the quiet, and she is
and she she is not supposed to know it’ |yet jnst
takes as readily to the china again.”
It has only just now struck us that Archie
wasn’t Smart enough to win the Victorian Derby.
Epigram by Mr. O’Ryan, barrister-at-law:
“Talk about the enlightenment of this so-called
nineteenth century I Pooh 1 ”
In 1689, there were few members of the
Commons who did not, at one time or other, suffer
from the bitter-tongued Insolence of one “ Jack ”
Howe, member for Cirencester, described in the
petition of Legion as “that impudent scandal
of Parliaments.” The theory of history repeating
Itself is supported, after a lapse of nearly two cen-
turies, at the other end of the world, by a certain
other “ Jack.” Macaulay, in treating of the other
offender against public decorum, says (see page 35
of the 3rd vol. of his History of England)“ Be-
fore he had been a member three weeks his volu-
bility, his asperity, and his pertinacity had made
him conspicuous—quickness, energy, and audacity
united, soon raised him to the rank of a privileged
man. His enemies—and he had many enemies—
said that he consulted his personal safety even in
his most petulant moods, and that he treated
soldiers with a civility which he never showed to
ladies or to bishops. But no man ever had in
larger measure that evil courage which braves and
even courts disgust and hatred. No decencies
restrained him, his spite was implacable, his skill
in finding out the vulnerable parts of strong
minds was consummate. All his groat contem-
poraries felt his sting in their turn. The historian
also mentions that in a poem written in 1690, the
original “Jack” was summed up as follows:—
“ First, for Jack Howe with his terrible talent,
Happy the female that ’scapes his lampoon;
Against the ladies excessively valiant,
But very respectful to a dragoon.”
Curious that the writer of the notice con-
cerning Adam Lindsay Gordon, published in our
issue of the 3rd, should assert that the “ unbridge-
able gulf” between Gordon and society could
scarcely be better told than “ in his own few lines,”
and then proceed to quote lines of which Gordon
was not the author! Mowbray Morris, private
secretary to Sir James Ferguson, and afterwards
famous in London as the one dramatic author who
did not bend the knee in the house of Irving, wrote
“ A voice from the Bush,” which Marcus Clarke in-
corporated with Gordon’s poems for no really suffi-
cient reason, as the writer humbly avers. Morris
wrote the lines down at Robe, one summer holiday
time, while In charge of Lady Edith there; and
sent them to John Howard Clark, who printed
them in the Observer. Feeling this no proper
sort of publication, Morris posted “ A Voice from
the Bush” to the editor of Temple Bar,” and the
verses also appeared in that magazine. And that
poor Marcus should have chopped the lines in
half is another mystery. As Mowbray Morris
composed them, their form is:—
“ Booted and bearded and burnt to a brick, I loaf
along the street;
1 watch the ladies tripping by, and I bless their
oainty feet.
I watch them here and there, with a bitter feel-
ing of pain;
Ah, what wouldn’t I give to feel a lady’s hand
again!
They used to be glad to see me once—they might
have been to-day;
But we never know the worth of a thing until
we have thrown it away.”
As humbly as before, the writer further avers
that A. L. Gordon would never have written the
last line quoted. He sang:-
“With adverse fate we best can cope,
When all we prize has fled;
And where there’s little left to hope,
There’s little left to dread!
Oh, Time glides ever quickly by
Destroying all that’s dear;
On earth, there’s little worth a sigh,
And nothing worth a tear!”
Gordon strikes quite a different note everywhere
to anything dealt with in “A Voice from the Bush,”
There is no reason why Morris should
not be the author of this latter effusion. They are
shallowly sentimental. They do not reach the
core. There is no real but a good deal of new-
chum bushmanship in them. They are pretty, if
somewhat rough, and certainly deserve their
original print. Mowbray was a fat, round-faced
young gentleman, known in Adelaide as “the
Cherub.”
LIP-SERVICE.
“ I can assure you, Eliza, that at that moment my heart -was in my mouth.”
Eliza (bride of a month): “ Ah! as it was when you said it was mine! ”


TATTERSALL’S CUP,
NEW YEAR’S DAY, 1884.
No. 1 CONSULTATION.
Encouraged by »ast successes, i teg to
announce that I intend having a
SERIES OF CONSULTATIONS
on the above.
No. 1 is now open, and will close at the earliest
possible date.
I must request immediate application, so that
fortunate holders may have a good opportunity
of hedging.
Distribution as follows
First Horse
Second Horse
Third Horse
Starters (divided among)
Non-Starters (divided among)..
£1000
400
200
200
200
£2000
Address—
“JANITOR.”
Care of E. E. Jones,
International Hotel, Sydney.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 13th November, 1883.
TENDERS FOR ADDITIONS.
TENDERS are invited for Additions to the Pen-
nant Hills Public School.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Additions, Pen-
nant Hills Public School,” must be lodged with
the Acting Under-Secretary, Department of Pub-
lic Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock a.m., on
Wednesday, 28th November, 1883.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender.
G. H. REID.
Department of Public Instruction.
Sydney, 13th November, 1883.
TENDERS FOR ADDITIONS AND REPAIRS,
f | >ENDERS are Invited for Additions and Repairs
J to the Public School, at Greenwich.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Department
of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Additions and
Repairs, Greenwich Public School,” must be
lodged with the Acting Under-Secretary, De-
partment of Public Instruction, at or before
10 o’clock a.m., on Monday, the 3rd December,
1883.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender.
G. H. REID.
AK T UNION
FOR THE
LARGE LIFE-SIZE PORTRAIT IN OILS
of the late
Most Rev. Dr. VAUGHAN,
ARCHBISHOP OF SYDNEY.
PAINTED BY GLADSTONE EYRE.
GLADSTONE BYRE, at the particular request
of many friends and admirers of the above late
lamented and distinguished Prelate, has just
painted a Large, Life-size Portrait In Oil, of him,
and will dispose of the same by Art Union, under
the Management of a Committee chosen from
the Shareholders themselves.
On the day prior to his departure, Gladstone
Eyre had the honour to receive from His Grace a
special letter of introduction to one of the Heads
of the Church in Rome, in which the late Arch-
bishop was pleased to express that he had great
faith in the artist, and wished that every intro-
duction and attention should be paid him, to
further his proposed professional visit to Italy.
Gladstone Byre assures the subscribers to this
Art Union, that this large painting, 60 x 48 inches,
is a most striking likeness, and laithfully repre-
sents the late eminent Archbishop and Head of
the Catholic Church in this colony,
in this magnificent Painting, the well-known
noble features and majestic figure of His Grace
are thoroughly depicted to the life, thus giving
his many admirers an opportunity of realising, to
some extent, his presence once more amongst them.
“ He was a man, take him for all in all.
We shall not look upon his like again.”
Gladstone Eyre considers that he has placed
before the Catholics of this colony a painting
worthy of their attention as a fitting memorial
of the late Archbishop. Surely out of respect to
him whose life was such a brilliant example of
uevotion to their faith, this Art Union ought to
be readily subscribed for by all good Catholics.
The opinions of the press are appended, and are
unanimously in favour of this painting. The
painting is now on view at the Artist’s Studio,
Pastoral Chambers, 375 George-street.
As the number of tickets are limited to 200 at £1
each, early application is necessary to be made for
them, and they will be sent by return post.
GLADSTONE EYRE, Portrait Painter in Oils,
Pastoral Chambers, 375 George-st., Sydney.
Pastoral Chambers, 375 George-street, Sydney.
To Gladstone Eyre,
I have to request that you will send me
Tickets in the above Art Union for the large
Painting in Oil of His Grace the late Archbishop
Vaughan.
THE FOLLOWING STALLIONS will Stand
the ensuing Season at RICHMOND, where
first-class Paddocks will be provided for Mares,
with every care and attention, but without re-
sponsibility
MARTBYRNONG
GRAND FLANEUR
RAPID BAY ..
MOORTHORPE
JULIAN A VENAL
MONMOUTH ..
BEAUCLBRC ..
CHILDE HAROLD
Subscription Full.
Terms, 30 Guineas per Mare
do. 15 do. do.
do. 15 do. do.
do. 15 do. do.
do. 15 do. do.
do. '2 do. do.
do. 13 do. do.
A few half-bred Mares will be taken to Beauclerc
at half-price.
Each Horse will be limited to 15 of the public
mares.
Ail Mares must be paid for and removed by
January 1,1884.
ANDREW TOWN, Richmond.
LYDESDALES.
The following Imported Pure Clydesdale STAL-
LIONS will STAND at Richmond the coming
Season, when first-class Paddocks will be provided
for Mares, with every care and attention, but
without responsibility:—
MUIR LAD,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
DAVIE,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
GALLANT SCOTCHMAN,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
Comment on these Horses is unnecessary. They
have proved themselves on all the principal Show
Grounds of the Colony, and their Stock have done
the same, their progeny at six months old selling
at from 50 guineas to 100 guineas each.
All Mares must be paid for and removed by
January 1,1884.
ANDREW TOWN, Richmond.
TO STAND THIS SEASON at MULGRAVE,
near WINDSOR, the imported coaahlng
stallion,
PERFECTION,
the thoroughbred horse,
TESTATOR,
and the Exmoor pony,
UNCLE TOM.
PERFECTION, a brown horse, 5 years old, stands
17.1 hands high, perfect in symmetry, with grand
action. His pedigree .is as follows :—Sire Coker’s
Perfection, gs Warthe’s Perfection, ggs Jackson’s
Perfection, g g g s Catton, g g g g s Bay Bucking-
ham, g g g g g s Grand Conqueror, g g g g g g s
Henderson’s King George. Dam by Ola Pheno-
menon (which horse was sold for $00 guineas), g d
by Wink's Champion. Two half-brothers to Per-
fection were sold for 500 and 800 guineas respec-
tively, when 5 and 3 years old. PERFECTION
took 16 first prizes, and was never beaten in a show
ring.
TESTATOR, by the Tester (imp.) out of Rosedale
(hop.), the dam of Kingsdale, winner of the
Hawkesbury Guineas, &c., &c.
UNCLE TOM, winner of first prize at late
Sydney Exhibition, by Sir Thomas (imp.), out of
Pretty Star (imp.) He stands 12 hands high, has
immense strength, beautiful symmetry, and per-
fect action. Pretty Star’s dam (Starlight) was
champion racing pony in England, having won
over £2000, including a match for £600, and was
never beaten.
Terms—
PERFECTION :
Mares left in paddock.. .. 8 guineas each.
Mares taken to horse .. .. a
TESTATOR 4
UNCLE TOM 3 ” ”
Good paddocks provided, and every care taken,
without responsibility. As only a limited number
of mares will be taken, early application is neces-
sary.
GEORGE S. YEO.
Important Notice to every
Country Resident.
uiiiw,,
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS,
235 & 237 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Are making great efforts to increase their large
country trade. A Special Department for the
exclusive benefit of those who reside away from
Sydney is now established.
The exorbitant prices country tailors charge are
almost prohibitive to many. We are changing al
this.
TRY US 1 TRY US I
If you wish to get a real good tailor’s-made gar-
ment, write for our easy manual of self-measure-
ment, sent post free to all parts of the colony,
with patterns, styles, and tape.
Sydney Prices, Metropolitan Pit
and Workmanship.
Suits, to Measure £3 3 »
Trousers, to Measure o IG G
ALL WOOL, AND SHRUNK.
H.L. Summerfield & Co.
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS.
ONLY SYDNEY ADDRESS-
235 and 237 Pitt-strect.
T
10 STAND THIS SEASON, at Duckenfleld
near Morpeth—The Thoroughbred Stallion
HENCHMAN
(late Friday), full brother to Robinson Crusoe, the
sire of Navigator, by Angler, out of Chrysolite,
will serve ten approved mares, besides his owner’s,
at Thirty Guineas per mare.
Also,
CROWN PRINCE,
by Kelp’e, out of Queen’s Head, by Yattendon,
out of Gazelle, will serve ten approved mares!
besides his owner s,
at Ten Guineas per mare.
Splendid paddocks, and every care taken of
mares sent to the above horses, but no resnonsi-
billtv incurred.
All mares must be paid for before removal.
Season ends on 1st January, 1884. Mares not re-
moved on that d,ate will be charged ten shillings
per week each up to date of removal.
JOHN BALES.
Puctyufleld, September wth, 1888,
' 1 * * -”11
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. l^atvired.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHI8KJ RS
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. WHISKEY*
n,?hM ( ? ttle 1 ln hoDd for Ex ' rt at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, t refore reiv that it
has not been in the hands of “ hXV Doctors. ”
you . a ? k . iu r. 8ee that you get It, look for tlie
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule,
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE
COFFEE PALACE,
231 GEORGE STREET NORTH.
JOHN JOHNSON, Proprietor.
XXAVING opened the above, the Proprietor has
U supplied a want long felt in Sydney. The
first floor contains spacious Ladies and Gentle-
men’s Dining and Drawing Rooms, also Single and
Double Bedrooms, replete with every comfort.
A TRIAL IS RESPECTFULLY SOLICITED.
THE AUSTRALIAN
Diamond Drill Company.
CONTRACTS will be undertaken by the abev
ffiSKSl.'SpSr “ y 8l “ d YeruS”;
3 INCHES, OR LARGER IP REQUIRED,
to any depth, at a reduction of 25 PER CENT
BELOW 1 ANY PREVIOUS CHARGE;
The Company, in all cases, will find their owi
fuel and water for drilling purposes, and will maki
no charge for loss of diamonds or wear and tear oi
plant, and will also provide workmen engineers, &c
„ T he ?ew duplex barrel, introduced into th
colony by Mr. J, Ooghlan, will be used free o
charge to persons searching for minerals.
Mr. Coglan has every confidence, from his prac
tical knowledge of the Diamond 6rill, that he wb
general satisfaction, as well as quid
despatch to all orders addressed to the M
Temporary Offices, 311 George-street.
JOHN COGHLAN,
General Manager, pro. tern.
I
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
Warranted first quality
Cna rges stn c tly modera te.
MARSHALL BROTHERS
'URStOj OfrS~ r.
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS PERFORMED
WITH SKILL.
Teeth Stopped, and Extracted Painlessly
CRESWELL’S CHOICE SEEDS.
0 N JESS 1 # .of* 1 , the following collection t
NEW GARDEN SEEDS will be forwarde
Pree by return of post to any part of New Sout
Wales :—
loz. Beet (blood red), loz. Borecole or Germa
Greens, loz. Brocoll, 3oz. Cabbage (early an
late). 2oz. Carrot (3 varieties), loz. Celery, lo:
Cauliflower, loz. Cress (curled), loz. Mustar
(fine white), loz. Lettuce, loz. Parsnip, loi
Parsley (extra curled), 2oz. Onions (2 varh
ties), 4pz. Turnip (3 varieties), loz. Savoi
loz. Spinach, 2oz. Radish (long and turnip)
packets Melons (water and rock), I pack’e
Cucumber, 1 packet Pumpkin, 1 packe
Tomato, 1 packet Vegetable Marrow.
One half of above collection, 10s, post free 1
packets of choice assorted Flower Seeds, sultabl
for present sowing, will be presented with each £
post collection of Garden Seeds. Assortments o
Seeds, containing Peas and Beans, for transit h
coach, rail, or steamer, for small or large gardens
from 10s, *1, £2, and £3 3s each. Payments mad
by money order or, stamps.
C. F. CRBSWBLL, Seed and Plant Merchant
474 George-street, Sydney.
PAINTS.
OILS.
&
WALL
PAPERS
MOPSTAOHJ and WHIGEEES. «fona afte
Boyd’s Beard F.lixir did this, and
Kill do it on taker bald heart or
bare fare. Forces henry Mans
tar he infromS lo 4 weeks and never
/“‘I*. 2U.OOO young men already ~ ■
copyrighted. , cear fuU beards, having used I to Copyrighted.
3 Sr* . . tnJur *’ ' ntil V applied, certain in effteI. Packets Is. t
each, 3 for 3e.6d.,post paid, tent under cover, free from obttrvalio
Mdre.s, Frnnk Douglas, Sole Agent,Box 730, O.P.O., Sydney,P.8. 1
Sewing Machines.
Do not buy, until you carefully examine the
New No. 7.
Among the Ancient Hebrews this Number signified
COMPLETENESS and PERFECTION.
The Ancient Syrians used it to express
FULLNESS AND PERFECT SATISFACTION.
SEVEN is also regarded as a Lucky Number, and he who
buys the AMERICAN No. 7
SURELY GETS A PRIZE.
Recognizing the peculiar fitness of this application, we
have called our new Machine
THE NUMBER SEVEN,
to Indicate Its Perfect Completeness, and because we 1 elieve
it will Fully and Perfectly Satisfy our Patrons.
RETAIL DEPOT :
567a GEORGE STREET
(BRICKFIELD HILL), SYDNEY.
JBBS, BRIGHT & CO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO.. LI VERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS Sc SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
„ Principal Agencies :
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON—Head Office: HONGKONG.
J. C. (Jostling and Company (Limited)—Portland Cement.
The Tunnel Portland Cement Company (Limited)—Portland Cement
Marshall, Sons and Company (Limited), Gainsborough—Portable Horizontal, and Vertical Engines,
Threshing Machines, Saw Benches, &c., &c.
Crossley Brothers (Limited), Manchester—The celebrated “ Otto ” Silent Gas Engines.
Bow, M'Lachlan and Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &c., &c.
Thos. Glover and Company, London—Patent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian and Sons—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penyrorsedd Slate Company (Limited)—Bangor Slates.
The Quicksilver Mining Company, San Francisco—Quicksilver.
Fels and Company, of Patras and Corfu—Currants.
Thos. Bell and Co.—English Hams, Bacon, &c., &c.
Red Cross Preserving Company, Victoria—Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, &c.
De Wendel and Company, Hayange, France—Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plates, Iron and
Steel Fencing Wire, &c.
Thos. Perry and Son, Bllston—Fire-resisting Safes. Drybrough and Cm, Edinburgh—Ale.
Brunton and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse. Thos. N. Hunt—Port Wine.
Dubos Freres, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablls, Sautemes
„ COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES.
New South 'Wales. —Scott and Mullaly, T. AUsop, F. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros-
Jindera Mill Co.
Victoria.— James Fryand Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
South Australia.—W. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hindis.
INDENTS executed, on the most favourable terms, from all parts of the world. Consignments
of produce received for shipment to London, under liberal advances.
o oo\
—
THE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO.
are the largest consumers off American
, Leaf In the colonies, hence the FIRST
' position for quality is assigned to their Twist
and Flat Tobaccos —Yankee Doodle, Conqueror, Sir Roger (thick
twist), R. C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture, and others.
CIGARETTES.— Their CONQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold an equal position.
* 8., Importer# of Pipe# of every fclnd, Cigar#, Rod all Tobacconist#’ Fancy Good# and Sundries
S


READ IT ADD.
It may Save your Life.
hop bitters
ARB
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buchn, Mandrake, and Dandelion.
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘ and in addition contain all the best
* and most effective curative properties
‘ of all other bitters, being the greatest
* Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
* and life and health restoring agent on
* earth."
I'hey Give New Life and Vigour to the Aged
and Infirm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
‘ Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
‘irregularities of the Blood, Stomach
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
J Appetizer, Tonle, and mild Stimulant,
1 these Bitters are invaluable, being
‘ highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
’ without intoxicating.”
“No matter what your feelings or
symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
wait until you are sick, but if you only
feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun-
‘ dreds have been saved by so doing, at
‘ a trifling cost.”
Ash your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
friends suffer, but use and urge thsm to
* use Hop Bitters.”
“ Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
drugged, drunken nostrum, but the
purest and best Medicine evor made,
‘and no person or family should be
without it.”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO.,
Melbourne, Australia, Rochester, N. T., U. S
A., Toronto, London, Antwerp, Paris.
GRAHAM,
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment,
648, late 581, George-street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,—I respectfully beg leave to bring
under your notice the superior style and fit of our
frousers, which are out on the same unerring
irinciples as those which have made the name of
HIM., Bond-street, a household word amongst tha
leaders of fashion in the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful 1 ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either in sitting, riding
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor braces
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain their
josltlon in every attitude of the body.
They are designed to fit the corpulent as well
he slight figure, and are engaged to give to all the
nost perfect satisfaction.
A single trial will suffice to establish their claim
on your patronage.
I am, Sir,
Tourobedlent Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM.
MALT BITTERS
l»TTT^oSSf^ T r ClTRE INDIGESTION. „
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT, WEAK-
NESS, At.
PRICE.
as. «d.
Chemist, Ac
Prepared by A. G
43 ER8KINE STRBux.
told by W. H. SOUL, and all Chemists,
The Whiuhams are school teachers at
North Adelaide—a hard-headed Tyneside family,
who having, some years ago, lost money in copper-
mining, went into land speculations and prospered
exceedingly. In consequence, their “ college ” is
now quite an extensive affair, and William, the
eldest son, a member of Parliament for a South
Eastern district. He also speculates wisely and
well. Tom M'Ellister, a business-brained Irish-
man, got possessed with the idea that South Aus-
tralia obtained about one really good season in
ten years from a knowing Providence, which does
not, apparently, encourage agricultural settlement
among sandy deserts. This idea M'Ellister com-
municated to Whinham, who had just then made
a remarkably good haul out of gold adventures.
Result was that they lent hundreds of struggling
farmers one bushel of wheat and 5s. per acre.
M Ellister’s calculation that the coming season
was the one on which Providence intended to
shine proved quite correct, his Information being
derived from sources not traced up to date. And
he doth not emit any smell of brimstone! In fol-
lowing out the scheme Whinham and M‘Ellister
risked thirty thousand pounds. So sure a thing Is
the abundant harvest now ripening, that they
have chartered thirty ships, taken a huge barn
contract, and may soberl calculate on doubling
the £30,000. This kind of thing seems mighty un-
fair. If Providence is going to make fish of one
fellow and fowl of another in that way, why the
sooner we revert to the good old-fashioned hard-
wood idol (three coats of paint) the better.
In the N. W. district resides a very wealthy,
but, to put it mildly, rather eccentric gentleman.
Being in , the other day, he was seen by an
acquaintance gazing intently through a window at
a tailor seated at his wcrk. Presently he excitedly
rushed into the shop, and, snatching the man’s
work out of his hand, said: “ Now, look here, my
man; when you’re sewing buttons on again, don’t
twist the thread round and round the button—as
you were doing just now—to finish off with.
Simply pass your needle once or twice—twice, say
—through the cloth, and you will find it just as
efficient, and you will save at least two inches of
thread to every button. Now, remember that.
Good-morning.”
“ No shearer, under any pretence what-
soever, is to either talk, whistle, or sing whilst at
work in the woolshed.” So runs Rule iv. of a
well - known squatter’s agreement with his
shearers this season. They got through the
first day in silence ; but next morning,
as the squatter entered, the man just in
f '•ont of the door, looking up, gave utterance to a
most dismally prolonged howl d la dingo. “ Good
heavens!” exclaimed Mr. X.; “ what ails the man ?
Are you sick, or what ?” The shearer, raising his
head, and looking fixedly at the “boss,” again
howled dolefully, and at rnce a long and well-
sustained chorus broke out from every man down
both sides of the long shed. “ Is this meant as a
deliberate insult ? ” shrieked old X., growing
p urple with rage. But, at this* the howls and yells
were redoubled, and at lengih he fairly took to
flight. Men were pretty scarce, and he couldn t
afford to “sack” the lot, so had to “knuckle
under.” and expurge altogether most obnoxious
Article XV.
speaking of Lord Rosebery’s Australian
trip, an English political writer says: “He wil
find [in the colonies] universal suffrage unaccom-
panied by either Republican or Socialistic leanings
• • • And he may bring back to his 8overeig n
the gratifying assurance that, in all the wide
range of her dominions, there abide no more
ardently and solidly loyal subjects of hers, than the
wide-lying populations who live their worthy
steadfast lives under the Southern Cross.” No
‘•Republican leanings!” England is just as much
Republic as America, with the exception of an
hereditary Chief Magistrate and peerage. Indeed
it is more so in one sense, for the American Presi-
dent can veto laws which are not carried by an
overwhelming majority in Congress ; but let the
Crown and Lords in Great Britain stand in the
way of legislation which a small majority of the
Commons persistently demands, and—the result will
suggest itself. With the solitary exceptions of
playing second fiddle in somethings to the Imperial
legislature, and being supplied by Governors frjm
the United Kingdom, colonial constitutions are as
Republican as those of New York or Pennsylvania.
If universal suffrage, elective Upper (in some
colonies) and Lower Houses, and Governments
which are powerless without a majority of the
adult males to backthemup, be not Republicanism,
then it would be really instructive to learn what
Republicanism is. We are loyal, fiercely loyal, but
whether that devotion would carry us the length
of raising twenty or thirty millions by taxation to
assist in carrying on a costly war, or induce us to
send twenty or thirty thousand men to fight for
the Independence of Belgium, or meet the Rus-
sians in Afghanistan, is a point on which opinions
are apt to disagree.
At Warn station, near Temora, a Tasma-
nian native named Michael Hurley, during an
ordinary day’s work, shore 40 hoggets in one hour
fifty minutes, and 40 ewes in one hour twenty-five
minutes, finishing with a tally of 310 sheep.
There are a number of holy men in Sydney
who have been so often insolvent that it can o
them be truly said that they would owe a great
many thousand pounds after all tneir debts had
been paid.
In his first lecture, Monoure Conway re-
ferred to the well-known saying of Madame de
“tael— ‘ She did not believe in ghosts, but she was
afraid of them. ’ The D.T. reporter, with charming
naivete, makes record thus:—“ He reared the
story of a lady who said she did not nelieve in
ghosts, but she was afraid of them.” This is some-
thing like the village newspaper scribe who com-
menced his leading article with the words—“ A
well-known gentleman once said ‘ To be or not to
be, that is the question.’ ”
We ai e glad to see that the Carcoar Mary
has at last resolved to take a decided stand on the
larrikin question. It reports that two local larri-
kins, who had received a “college education.”
■ amused themselves” (wequote her) “by grossly
ill-usm< an Inoffensive Chinaman. They fastene
a stick to his pigtail, which they pulled in a brutal
manner, and, our informant states, beat him
shamefully with sticks.” Should this occur apain,
the Carcoar Chronicle has determined to pub-
lish the names of the offenders. This intimation
must prove a source of satisfaction to all parties—
particularly to the Chinaman!
Mrs. Langtry is again in America. This
time she Is accompanied by her mother A New-
castle man poured water down his wife’s back.
He is himself now in hot water. SimUia simUibus
curantur —Miss Fortescue, the future Lady Gar-
moyle, wasn’t earning a fortune at the Savoy
theatre. Her salary was only six guineas a week
The other night she went to the Savoy to see the
other fairy on the 300th night of ‘Molanthe.”
“May the other fairy have as much good lucl
as I have had,” was doubtless her wish
A rich sensation has just been spoiled. A wealthj
young lady had fully made up her mind to run
away with and marry her father’s coachman,
when at the last moment she discovered that the
coachman wouldn’thave her...“Really,’’saidLady
Lucan, to Mrs. Sheridan, wife of the great wit:
“ you must be a very happy woman, madam, who
have the felicity of pleasing the man who pleases
all the world.” When M. Lalande, the astronomer,
sat at dinner between Madame Recamier and
Madame de Stael, he remarked: “How happy 1
am to be thus placed between genius and beauty !’t
“ Yes, Monsieur,” sarcastically replied Madame de
Stael, “ and without possessing either.” ..
Darling, I am growing old—
How is this ? This hash is cold,
And my appetite to-day
Feels in a consuming way.
Tender mutton! Fiends of hair,
I am choking I Curse that air!
... The world has lost its greatest female. Fannj
Conley, It he fat woman of Nathan’s Cleveland
Circus was wafted Over the River a few weeks ago
She weighed nearly a quarter of a ton: so that 11
her soul (according to Dr. Jackson) possesses the
peculiarities of the tenement it has lately vacated,
Charon will require to charter a tug to tow her
across. She foolishly lay on her face In bed, and
was smothered—being unable to turn on her side.
Blue Beard died from an excess of “ connubiallty,”
and Fanny Conley succumbed to adipose tissue..
The Auckland (N.Z.) Herald makes the Rev. A,
Held speak of Lazarus and Wivrg." —
Prom this, ’twould seem that Lazarus.
He must have been a Mormon cuss—
Which solves the mystery why he
Was steeped so deep in poverty;
One wife’s enough a man to ruin,
Without attempting to take two in.
Poor Lazarus might well And rest
In peace on Father Abraham's breast;
For Paradise he’d proved his worth—
Had he not suffered hell on earth ?
An Adelaide maiden formed the acquaint-
ance of Mr. Beggs, and asked him to see her home
and stop to tea. He saw her home, and in a few
weeks she was Mrs. B. Three months afterwards
he was a father, petitioning for a divorce. He got
It. And just here comes In the point on which
ninety-nine and a circulating decimal out of every
hundred people were formerly ignorant. It was
always tacitly understood that the adultery justi-
fying a divorce should be committed by the
woman—when she was a tntfe. But this Adelaide
affair has doubled up that opinion. It has thrown
what the D.T. calls ,! a flood of lurid light” on the
pre-maritalconductofsuchmaidonsasshe. Hence-
forth they will see that palpable frailty is not to
be condoned by priests, bridesmaids, the wedding
march, rice, and old shoes.
Printed and Published by The Bulletie News-
paper Co. (Limited), 84 Ifltbst-, Sydney, N.S.W,
1. “Here, Waitah! more beer.”
3. “No, I won’t hear of your paying.” “ Oh,
but I must.”
5. Skedaddle.
G. The bandage falls from his eyes.
2. “Not a copper among us! I’ll fix it.”
4. “Well, lets blindfold the waiter, and who-
ever he touches first, shall be allowed to
pay.
