

AND SONS
f
- .
rm
IET
SOXJTHEEU
\
r
i »*
u
;
iVul't
«
Tlie firm of ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS*has become a household word in New South
'Vales for providing Drapery, Furnishing, and Household Goods, at the Lowest Possible Cash
fnces. By buying and selling for cash only, we command the best markets in the world, and
are able to sell our goods at prices which defy competition.
e Sell Silks, Satins, Dress Goods, Mourning Goods, Underclothing, Millinery, Costumes, Mantles,
; Wers, Feathers, Parachutes, Umbrellas, Ribbons, Laces, Gloves, Hosiery, Mercery, Prints,
mceys, Curtains, Manchester Goods, Blankets, Cretonnes, Haberdashery, Wool Goods, Sta-
lonery, Perfumery, Toys, Fancy Goods, Ready-made Clothing, Boots and Shoes, Hats and Caps,
°rtmanteaus, Cutlery, Electro-plate, Hardware, Crockery, Brush ware, Carpets, Mats, Floorcloths,
Furniture, Beds, Bedsteads and Bedding. We have only one Address : —
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket, Sydney,
Largest RETAIL DRAPERY ESTABLISHMENT IN AUSTRALASIA.


ini
op
SYDNEY,
IS
i
. •* ,
i
. 5
THE
G-rea/t
CENTRE
OF THIS
JOHN HUNTER’S
RENOWNED CITY BOOT PALACE,
454 GEORGE STREET.
To my Patrons and the General Public.—It is now a little more than five years since the City Boot Palace was first opened, and
the success that has attended my endeavours to give satisfaction to my patrons has gradually increased year by year, until it has
now reached a point far beyond my most sanguine expectations ; and I would avail myself ot the opportunity to return thanks for
past favours, assuring you that no effort will he spared on my part to maintain that prestige the City Boot Palace has now
gained. I havq determined to celebrate the 5th Anniversary of the opening of the above establishment by holding my FIFTH
ANNUAL SALE, on a scale of unparalleled magnitude, at which the goods will he marked in plain figures at such prices that must
necessarily effect a speedy clearance. Doubtless there are many who have pleasant reminiscences of the great bargains obtained at
my first and subsequent Annual Sales, at the City Boot Palace, 454 George-street (opposite the Markets), and I can assure them that
the same, if not greater, facilities will he afforded them and the general public for obtaining Ladies , Gentlemen s, and Children’s
Eirst-class Boots and Shoes, at less than they could he purchased for from the manufacturers,.
Gent’s Goloshed E.S. Boots, English make ... from 6s. 6d.
Gent’s Plain E.S. Boots, superior make „ 6s. 9d.
Ladies’ Morocco Evening Shoes „ 3s. 3d.
Ladies’ Patent Dress Shoes ... ... ... from 3s. Hd.
Ladies’Levant E.S. Boots... ... „ 4s. 9d.
Ladies’ Kid E.S. Boots i „ 5s. Hd.
■on *11 » J 1 m ,11
Choice selection of Ladies’ Button and Lace Boots. Children Boots and Shoes, in endless variety.
Remember the 5th Annual Sale, at John Hunter’s City Boot Palace, 454 George-street, is not for the purpose of clearing out
old stock the immense patronage accorded by the general public preventing the accumulation of stock of any kind. Everything is
fresh, seasonable, and good. Trusting you will favour me with a visit to my 5th Annual Sale, I remain, Ladies and Gentlemen,
yours obediently, JOHN HUNTER. *
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.’S
Bon Accord Brass, Copper, Lead & Iron Works,
8 and 9 MACQUARIE PLACE,
PLUMBERS AND GAS FITTERS, ART METAL WORKERS, &C. MANUFACTURERS AND
IMPORTERS OF CHANDELIERS, BRASS WINDOW SASH BARS, DIVING GEAR, &C.
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPIRITS,
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has Just completed
extensive additions to his
Wholesale and Retail Bottle Department]
Which is now replete with a well-aasortbd stock of the Best Stands of Wines and Spirits, personallr
selected by the proprietor during his recent visit to Europe. He can therefore confidently recommei
the quality, and by charging a
patronage,
merit a share of their
THE MARSHALL
WINDOW FASTENER,
THE CHEAPEST
and
MOST INEXPENSIVE
FASTENER MADE.
Prevents all rattling, and
fastens the window at
any height.
No weights, pulleys, cords, &c.,
required.
PALE BRANDT. Per Bottle.
s d
Gilbey’s very old Brandy, gold top 6 6
Mennessy’s V.O. ((very old) bottled by P.R.L. 6 0
Hennessy’s 3 Star (***) 6 £
Dubois and Co.’s Old *** Pale 5 6
Fine OM Pale, bottled by P. R. L 5 6
Hennessy’s Battle Axe (*) .. .. •• •• 2 X
Martell’s Blue Label (*) ■ • 5 0
Flasks 2s 3d and 2 6
Half-flasks •• 1 6
Hennessy’s Draught Pale Brandy, per Impe-
rial quart 6s and 5 0
DARK BRANDY.
Hennessy’s 3 Star (***) • • ' * ®
Martell’s Very Old *** 8 6
Martell’s Old 5s and 4 0
Martell’s Dark, per Imperial quart .. • • 5 0
Flasks 2s 6d and 2 3
LOWNDE’S W. I. RUM.
DARK.
6s and
Quality—Good
Better
Stfll Better
Quality—No. 1, per Imperial quart
No. 2, „
No. 3, „ „ ..
No. 4, „ „ 3s and
Flasks Is 9d and
JAMAICA BUM.
PALE.
Very Finest
Red Heart . • < •
Fine Jamaica, per Imperial quart
Jamaica Bum, in Flasks
2s 6d and
BEERS (BRITISH).
Best Brands of Ales and Porters always on hand.
ALBURY (N.S.W.) WINES.
Burgundy quarts 2 6
Ettamogah, red »« « ”
„ Muscat „ 3 6
„ Relsllng i. *. .. n 3 0
Fallon’s Shirafc p 3 6
„ „ -Pints 1 6
POET WINE.
40-year old, Gilbey’s
Celebrated Four DiamoM .. ..
Quality—No. 1 (very superior old)
No. ***** grape
No. ****
No. *** „
No. **
No. *
Draught Port Wine, per Imperial quart
SHERRY.
40-year old, Gilbey’s •••.
Very Finest Amontillado (very dry)
Fine Amontillado
Celebrated Four Diamond Sherry
Common Sherry...
Draught Sherry Wine, per
Per Bottle,
s d
« 9
i 0
6 0
5 0
4 0
3 0
i «
: i
5 9
4 0
3 9
j 5 9
Imperial quart j | |
BRITISH WINES.
James Heddle’s Ginger Wine ••• ••• "
Orange Wine
IRISH WHISKY.
Jameson’s *** . ••• , •*• "!
Old Dublin Whisky (***) bottled by Burse
Kinahan’s unrivalled L L ”
Thorne’s Old Irish Whisky . -nj
Jameson’s ** ...
Dunville’s ••• ...
Kinahan’a Draught, per Imperial quart
Jameson’s „ >»
Flasks
SCOTCH WHISKY.
Walker’s 7-year old, in bulk •••
Thistle Blend an<
Royal Blend
Lome Highland
Kilmarnock
Glenlivet ...
Glenlivet Whisk
Flasks
GIN. h j I
Blue Bell or Yellow Seal Geneva... #a( Jii
Celebrated Key Brand, very large j
bottle containing more than a q 8 gmJ 1
Flasks Key Gin
. . oil returns
;;; ;;; asedand * ■
per imperial Rn jj j j
Celebrated CHAMPION ROLLER SKATES, and every other make, always on hand. Wheels, Soles
Bodies, and all Accessories. Manufacturers of the PORTABLE TALLOW G
Ranges Fitted with Hot and Cold Water, Circulating: Apparatus and Boilers.
MEDALLISTS AND SPECIAL PRIZE HOLDERS. ESTABLISHED 1855.
Meinrath’
SHIRTS.
MEINEATH & CO.,
SHIRTMAKERS,
96 KING STEJEET, SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST AND BEST-FITTING SHIRTS IN AUSTRALIA.
3 Men’s Regatta Shirts with Collars for 7s. 0d., in 20 patterns.
Latest Stock in White and Coloured Shirts in Sydney. All kinds of Shirts made to order.
Meinrath’s
SHIRTS.
San Francisco Palace of Art,
LATE
The patrons of
the Australian
the SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART, so well known throughout
colonies, are informed that, in addition to the same high-class portrait
work for which it has been noted,
Copies and Enlargements to Life Size, by new and improved pro-
cesses, from any photograph or negative, are now taken.
Opals, Autotype, Transfer, or Albuminized Paper, in Crayon or Coloured,
The same staff of Artists, who have rendered the work of this establishment famous,
are employed, and all negatives (17,000 in number) taken during the past four years, carefully
preserved, from which copies may be had on application by sending name and address.
W. T. BENNETT.
nation or any wharf in the city. Free of Charge. th0
P. R. LARKIN’S CASE OP ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRlI’S.-pn receipt_« -
ge^u^'e^rtic^^wTn^e^orwar^o^jn^q^mr^^ttje^securelypack^i^
5 Quarts KEY GIN,
3 Quarts PALE BRANDY,
1 Quart WHISKY.
5 Quarts WEST II
» wuario JTAl ill JJJ-V-n.i'l XJ X , u - - — V-
SpOTAL—15 QUARTS. ualltv, d ,!«oe
The articles contained In P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the> Po« 05
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, v
Orders payable at the Haymarket Post Office.
Kindly Note the Address—
P. ft. LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail Wine & Spirit Merchants mp
George and Gipps Sts., Haymarket, Sy


THE BULLETIN
Vfll. 1.—No. 16—New Series
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1883.
Price —6d.
THE CIRCULATION OF “THE BULLETIN"
IS NOW MORE THAN DOUBLE THAT OF
ANY OTHER WEEKLY NEWSPAPER IN
N s.W.-THAT OF ONE VERY OLD ESTAB-
LISHED PAPER, WHICH EXCEEDS “ THE
BULLETIN'S" BY ABOUT ONE-FIFTH,
ALONE EXCEPTED. THE CIRCULATION
OF “THE BULLETIN ” IS THE SECOND
GREATEST AMONG THE WEEKLIES OF
AUSTRALASIA.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1883.
Public Trusts.
Mb. Copeland, in the letter with which he
has favoured us, has skipped, with vivacious
unconsciousness, over the surface of several
very important principles, the application
of which we shall endeavour to elucidate, as
we follow him in his airy flight. Mr. Cope-
land is mistaken in assuming that the
fact of the Assembly having voted £20,000
towards the operations on the Lake Mac-
quarie bar, notwithstanding that he and
other members had a beneficial pecuniary
interest in the vote, surprised us. No-
thing that the Assembly may have done in
that direction would surprise us, our ca-
pacity for astonishment having been ex-
hausted by the disclosures in connection
with Milburn Creek, and by information
respecting other matters very similar,
pretty generally known, but not, properly
speaking, disclosed, and not likely to be dis-
closed until the Press shall be made free to
speak outin the public interest without being
punished like a criminal. Those members of
Parliament who were not interested in the
expenditure had a perfect right to vote the
money. But those who were so interested
violated a distinct provision of the Constitu-
tion Act by so doing. Mr. Copeland shoots
beside the mark in his satirical reference to
“crass fools,” who think that members, like
other people, must hold land somewhere, or
hold something—meaning, of course, that
persons who think otherwise are the “crass
fools.” The distinction we make is that
members may not honestly avail themselves
of the special opportunities of foreseeing
rises in value consequent upon legislative
action to forestall the rest of the commu-
nity by purchases of land or any thing else;
and, further, that members owning property
betray their trust when they either vote for
expenditure of public money to give en-
hanced value to their holdings, or combine
with others, on the “scratch me, scratch
thee ” principle, to secure the passing of such
expenditure, even when they ostensibly re-
frain from recording their votes. And we
may add to this that there is equally a be-
trayal of trust when members ally them-
selves with cliques or rings outside the
House, and provide information and votes,
while the latter find money, for joint specu-
lation. We do not wish this to be read as an
intimation that we accuse Mr. Copeland of
having entered into such relations. Our
faith in his bluff integrity is in no wise dis-
turbed. But we could wish that his appre-
ciation of abstract principles were keener,
as in such case we are satisfied that he would
hesitate before coming forward as the cham-
pion of the right of members of Parliament
to feather their nests, to the disadva tage of
the people who have conferred upon them
the position of trustees of the public funds
and the public estate.
* ♦ *
We presume there will be no desire to
deny the obvious fact that a member of the
Legislature is a trustee. It is generally
agreed, we believe, that he is invested with
a very honourable, very extensive, and very
responsible trust. The honour of the com-
munity, its joint contributions for the
administration of justice, the disposition of
its estate, and the development of its
resources, are entrusted to his care. No
more inspiring trust could he confided to
any man; and the fitness of the trustee
can best be guaged by the sense of responsi-
bility which the confidence reposed in him
awakens in his bosom, and by the evidence of
that sense which his actions afford. Now, with
respect to trusts, public and private, the best
intellects have long been exercised. In case
there should be any disposition to argue the
point whether a member of a Legislature
should be regarded as a trustee, we may
refer Mr. Copeland and his associates to
Le win’s “Law of Trusts and Trustees,” in
which it is specifically stated that “ even the
King, notwithstanding his high prerogatives,
was invested with the character of Royal
Trustee; ” and the maxim—one which must
commend itself to every disinterested thinker
—is laid down that “ it is a general rule estab-
lished to keep trustees in the line of their
duty: That they shall not derive any advan-
tage from the administration of the property
committed to their charge.” The objection,
therefore, is not against members “ holding
a bit of land somewhere,” but against their
voting public moneys to improve the lands
they do hold, thus deriving personal advan-
tages from the administration of the funds
committed tu their charge. The principle
is, however, is so well established, and so
explicitly recognised in our Constitution Act
that we will spend no further time in en-
deavouring to rub it into Mr. Copeland’s
head.
* * *
Passing on to another branch of the sub-
ject, Mr. Copeland announces a discovery
that Mr. Henry George’s argument—an
argument identical with Mill’s reasoning
with respect to “unearned increment”—
that an owner of property may b ecome rich
in ten years by merely holding on, without
doing a stroke of work, has no application
to Lake Macquarie, because he, Mr. Cope-
land, has held on for ten years and has not
become rich. We must crave indulgence to
remark that this is very poor quibbling.
George’s remark is illustrative and general,
and the term of ten years is not essential
to the argument. The result may come
in ten years in some instances. In others, it
might require a hundred years; but it would
be inevitable. Mr. Copeland, for instance,
has waited ten years; and so, for example,
has Sir Daniel Cooper. The unearned in-
crement has not yet poured its profusion
into the pockets of either gentleman. But,
if they will wait another ten, while Mr.
Copeland utilises his trust to the commu-
nity by getting additional votes of £20,000,
or the half million which looms ahead, of
other people’s money, the fruits of other
people’s industry, expended in the improve-
ment of access to these properties, both
gentlemen undoubtedly will be rich —even
although Mr. Copeland were to pass the
last few years with Sir Daniel in Eng-
land, or up in a balloon. The instance
of a railway, adduced by Mr. Copeland,
is not a parallel one. £20,000 spent
on a shifting bar may be totally dissi
pated by natural forces. But £20,000 spent
in a section of railway is not exposed to
similar dissipation. A mile of railway may
be made as substantially as a thousand miles.
But a bit of a cutting, or of a retaining wall
in a channel exposed to the action of the sea,
may be silted up or washed away, where a
complete cutting or structure would be
mutually preservative in all its parts. In
fact, Mr. Copeland is very unhappy in his
illustrations. The Clarence bar works fur-
nish a flagrant instance of the folly of under-
taking such operations by driblets, and
without a definite and complete scheme;
while the fact that two and three quarter
millions sterling have been expended at
Newcastle harbour is an acknowledged
example of wasteful outlay, inasmuch as at
least half the money has been thrown away
owing to lack of method. Surely Mr, Cope-
land does not intentionally argue that these
expensive blunders ought to be repeated at
Lake Macquarie I Yet such is, undoubtedly,
the drift of his contention.
* ♦ ♦
A more coherent style of argument is that
adopted further on. Mr. Copeland refers,
with well-grounded confidence, to the prac-
tice of the past. It Is true, indeed, as he
indicates, that the Lake Macquarie dodge is
essentially grounded upon innumerable pre-
cedents. It is true that there is scarcely an
instance in which the expenditure of public
moneys in railways, bridges, removal of
bars, and so forth, has not been turned to
private advantage by political forestalled.
But to adduce these facts will avail Mr.
Copeland nothing, unless he is prepared
seriously to argue that such is a desirable
system, and should be continued. And we
do not think he will gravely maintain any
such proposition. We suppose no man living
will ever know to what extent members of
Parliament, and friends of members of Par-
liament, have forestalled the public in pur-
chases of land shortly to be made valuable
by public works, the direction and character
of which were secrets to all but themselves.
But we have before us a return to the order
of the Legislative Assembly in 1876, showing
what Ministers had, up to that time, traf-
ficked in the public lands during their
tenure of office. Therein we find the names
of Chas. Cowper, Arthur T. Holroyd,
Edward Butler, Saul Samuel, George
A. Lloyd, R. M. Isaacs, Sir James Martin,
and Thomas Garrett. But high above all
tower three names: Henry Parkes, John
Sutherland, and George Long Innes.
Selectors of Mineral Lands. Henry Parkes
and Honest John Sutherland in partner-
ship made 41 selections in the county of
Camden while both were Ministers. The
aggregate area exceeded 7000 acres, between
these two alone. The secret history of the
Hlawarra Railway line would, if divulged,
endorse to the full Mr. Copeland’s conten-
tion that “we a’ do it,” and there is scarcely
a bridge, a break-water, a basin, or a bit of
bye-road, that could not a tale reveal, had it
voice to speak.
• • •
But Mr. Copeland states that this system
is “the policy of the country.” He doesn’t
put it exactly in this naked form. But, un-
less he means this, his words convey no
argument. That it has been, or is, the
policy of the country to countenance fore-
stalling, and to help that practice along, by
running railways to alienated lands, and
making easy access to private properties, we
deny it in toto. Such is not the policy of
the country. It has been the practice of the
cliques. A policy is some course of action
deliberately determined and regularly insti-
tuted. There is not, and never has been a
Ministry in Australia that dares or dared to
formulate any policy so monstrous and so
repugnant to the sense of self-protection
which is native in every man’s breast. The
public would have risen en masse, even in
its most sluggish moments, had such a pro-
position even been openly formulated. The
practice has been secretly carried on, amidst
constant and ever-strengthening protests.
And as its prevalence has become more
MR. JOHN WHITTON, ENGINEER-IN-CHIEF FOR THE N.S.W. RAILWAYS.


T
Coughs and Colds.
HE Best Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bod-time.
PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
s. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
liijk Mk Dtfirtiil
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET,
where you can obtain for
'©cl.
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot bo surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
BED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome of all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELI8H WHISKY,
6s. per bottle.
VERDE ILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEB PORT,
3s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. 6d. per bottle,
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street, Sydney.
WOOL! WOOL! WOOL!
Season 1883-84.
HILL, CLARK & GO.,
STDNET.
THE WOOL GROWERS OF NEW SOUTH
WALES AND QUEENSDAND.
THE rapid approach of the incoming wool
season reminds us to tender our thanks for
the very liberal support which has been accorded
to us during past years ; and while doing so we
take the opportunity to solicit a continuance of
the same support in the future which we have
enjoyed in the past.
On referring to our circular issued last year we
find that we therein anticipated a large increase in
the quantity of wool which would bo sold in these
colonies, and the result proved that we were cor-
rect. We also predicted that the prices obtained
in the colonies would be in favour of those growers
who sold in the
LOCAL MARKET,
and this also has been fully borne out by facts.
We are also glad to say that this market all
through the last season was extremely active, and
the large quantity of wool sold proves that
SYDNEY
is fast becoming, what it is destined to be in future,
the
WOOL MARKET OF AUSTRALIA.
We have therefore no hesitation in urging upon
growers the advantage of first offering their wool
here, where buyers from all the manufacturing
countries of Europe and America attend to supply
their wants from
FIRST HANDS.
Failing sales in Sydney, we are prepared to ship to
our London Agents, making liberal cash advances.
When sales are effected,
OUR CHARGES
are made on as low a scale as possible, and all wool
offered in our Warehouses, and not sold, is subject
only to the nominal charge of
ONE SHILLING l>ER BALE,
which covers receiving, delivering, weighing, and
storage accommodation.
Our Warehouses arepartiulariy well lighted, and
are most conveniently arranged for the display of
wool, in any quantity, to the greatest advantage.
The most careful attention is given to the valuing
of every lot, both large and small, so that nothing
will be sold under the full market value.
Way-bills and all further information forwarded
upon application.
HILL, CLARK AND CO.,
WOOL WAREHOUSES,
CIRCULAR QUAY.
OUI0I91 139 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Rates op Subscription io 1'he Bulletin
are—For one year, 24s.: half-year, 12s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—In advance.
The Advertising Rates are 5r. per inch;
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts ai - e allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows :—On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions,
15 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 25 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
WOOL SEASON, 1883-4.
R. Goldsbrough & Co.
(LIMITED),
In which are amalgamated The Australasian
Agency and Banking Corporation (Limited),
and R. Goldsbrough and Co.,
WOOL & GRAIN BROKERS.
* Capital £3,000,000.
BEG to notify the Woolgrowors of New South
Wales and Queensland that they make
Liberal Cash Advances; on favourable terms, on
the ensuing clip of Wool, and on Station securities.
They have also much pleasure in announcing that
their NEW WAREHOUSES at Darling Harbour
will be ready for the reception and sale of Wool,
Auction Sales of which will be held every FRIDAY
throughout the season. This department will
remain under the control of an efficient staff of
experts, who will take charge of and Sell to the
Best Advantage all consignments entrusted to the
Company’s care. The Sales of Fat Stock (at
Homebush), Station and Freehold Properties,
Grain, Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, and General
Station Produce, will be under thesuperlndenceof
Mr. GEORGE MAIDEN. The Warehouses will be
unrivalled in the Southern Hemisphere for extent
and adaptability to the trade, being replete with
every Modern Improvement for the Efficient Dis-
play of Wool, the sale of which will bj conducted
on the Melbourne system. Large and complete
samples of each clip will be shown in the well-
lighted SAMPLE ROOMS, which comprise the
whole of the upper floors, and as the bulk will be
easily accessible in the various rooms, which are
convenient to each other, the fullest facilities will
be available for inspection, thus ensuring the ut-
most confidence in purchasing. Prior to offering,
valuations will be made by several experienced
valuators, and their valuations will be carefully
compared before the wool is submitted for sale.
The various lots, no matter how small, will be pro-
tected up to the full market value. As they con-
iine their business strictly to ihat of SELLING
BROKERS ONLY, the best guarantee is afforded
that no parcel will be sold for less than its worth.
Farmers’ Lots receive special attention, every bale
and sack in the clip being shown in the Sample
Rooms. Should owners’ expectations not be
realized in Sydney, they have the advantage of
trying the Melbourne market before deciding on
shipment, in which latter case the Company is pre-
pared to make liberal cash advances at lowest
market rates, and consign to the English, Conti-
nental, or American markets for disposal. The
charges on Wool offered for sale, but not sold, are
only ONE SHILLING PER BALE, which includes
Receiving, Warehousing, Insurance whilst in store,
and Delivering.
LONDON —150 & 157 LEADENHALL STREET.
MELBOURNE-BOURKE & WILLIAM STREETS.
SYDNEY-4 SPRING STREET.
Dr. Marston’s New Work
Describing bow sufferers from
Nervous and Physical Debility.
Mental Decay and all disorders
resulting from Excesses, Indis-
cretions or Overwork, are per-
manently Cured
> Without Stomach Medicines.
WEAK, KETIV01I8. AM) IMPOTENT
MEN RE8T0KKI) TO
VIGOR, HEALTH A MANHOOD
Consultation with Physician
and Book FREE. Address—
BCAn Marston Remedy Co.,
nl " WU J 72 SLZZA8ETB ST., S7SHS7.
SHOULD
MAN
and more apparent, not only have
protestations become more loud and
Vigorous; but a climax was reached the
other day, when the people of the colony
Revolted against the last professors of plun-
dering politics, and blew sundry under-
ground engineers of iniquity into the light
of day and political extinction. Mr. Cope-
land assisted at this auto-da-fe, and can
scarcely pretend that be did not know its
significance. So to profess now would be to
court a very ridiculous position. It is be-
cause these underhand devices are no longer
possible that the era of the Confidence Bodge
has been inauguiated. But this will not
succeed. The people who are not in the
swim have suffered too long, and have too
clearly realised the game which has been
played. Doubtless, if The Bulletin could be
induced, as Mr. Copeland hints, and others
have hinted since our article was published,
to stop its mouth with a sop of land, the new
game might go on merrily and have a good
long run. But it is not our ambition to get
ourselves a piece of ground and lie around
like (excellent simile) the lazzaroni of
Naples, while others toil, and the plunder
from the working tax-payers creates values
for our benefit. The daily papers were easily
managed, as the fact of their complaisant
laudation proved, and although one has
since our article turned its back on itself,
and valiantly denounced what it had just
before approved, it is clear that but for The
Bulletin all would have gone well. We
thank Mr. Copeland for the opportunity he
has afforded us of “rubbing in” the moral
we sought to enforce, and, while we respect
his valour, cannot congratulate him upon his
discretion.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Advance Australia.
The treatment of prisoners during incarceration
pending trial has been animadverted on. That treat-
ment is wantonly inconsiderate and harsh. Some ex-
cuse may be made on the ground of necessary de-
tention, probability of guilt, or inability to incur a
large expenditure for a mere idea. No humane
person would attach any weight to these pleas.
But, assuming them to bo very real, they cannot,
with propriety, be advanced to palliate the cal-
lousness shown in the treatment of lunatics. To
these unfortunates the assumption of guilt, at all
events, does not appertain. Yet, on an official
visit, made by the Victorian Chief Secretary to
the Sunbury Asylum, it was found (considering
that the day of his visit was known this might be
fairly predicated) that “the dormitories were scru-
pulously clean, the bods were all tidily made, and
there appeared to be an air of order and devoted
attention to the patients.” But a good deal more
was found. It was discovered, for instance, that the
bluestone walls were absolutely bare—not a picture
or print was to be seen. Between the patients’
beds and the iron roof nothing but bare iron
girders intervened. The water pressure was bad,
so that filling a bath was a work of time. The
patients, in consequence, had to put up with one a
week; and, to obtain it, they had to walk naked
along an open yard to the slate-floored bath-room _
Six or eight of them had then to dip in the same
water. Mr. Berry thought “there was room for
improvement!” To one person only the cutting up
and apportionment of the meals are entrusted, so
that forty minutes elapse between the dishing and
the serving of food. A hot meal is, therefore, un-
known. Next to being an accused awaiting trial
In a N.S. Wales prison, we would elect to being a
lunatic awaiting dinner in a Victorian Asylum.
Having lately read an account of how these
afflicted people are treated in a great continental
Institution, the conclusion is forced upon us that
we in Australia are ever so much ahead of
foreigners in civilization.
Sweeps, and the Sweeps who “run ”
Them.
With horse-racing: itself there is no fault to be
found. But there are surrounding's and associa-
tions connected with it which demand repressive
measures not hitherto extended to them. It is not
too much to say that the whole edifice to which
thenameof “sportiftg” is applied is honeycombed
with knavery. Every device which the Inventive
genius of rascaldom can hit upon is adopted for
the purpose of transferring money from the
pockets of the simple and unwary to those of the
chevalier d'industrie, “ Stiff-’uns ” are run to jostle
others and throw them out of their stride.
Jockeys are “got-at,” and horses whose success
would up-end some of the bookmakers are pur-
chased at a fancy price and —scratched. These arc
but an insignificant few of the methods by which
men who should be sweeping gutters or breaking
stones in gaol are enabled to sport fine linen, smoke
expensive cigars, drink costly wines, and wear
rings as big as filberts on their filthy fingers. Our
business just now is not so much with this phase of
the subject as with another that is daily coming to
the front, and assuming proportions really alarm-
ing. We allude to the bogus “ sweep swindle.”
Lo . g before any great racing event, advertise-
ments appear in all the papers, set! ing forth that,
for the trifling sum of one pound, the
greatest stranger (these people have no preju-
dices) can have a chance of winning thousands.
In a week, Messrs. A., B., and C.’s boxes at the
G.P.O., Melbourne or Sydney, are crammed with
letters bearing one pound notes from large town,
distant hamlet, and far-away station. Nothing
more Is ever heard of the letters or their contents.
They disappear as mysteriously as the Wandering
Jew, and leave no trace. The swindler himself
seldom shows up In propria persona, He uses to
conceal his identity the fact that all sweeps have
been declared Illegal by our virtuous lawmakers.
He simply gives somebody the key of his P.0. box (
and has his letters brought him. Then he takes
the money, puts It In the bank, or changes It into
&old, and lays himself out for a little rational
enjoyment. It is far and away theeasiest method
of light employment and high wages with which
wo are acquainted. Should the chevalier decide
on remaining over the races, he sends out a frau-
dulent result slip. The public might study that
document till the Greek kalends and never find a
horse for which the dip is not held by the pro-
moter. Should ho, on the contrary, find before
the event that the police are making inquiries, ho
—being quite unknown—slips away with the
plunder, and, in some other place, gets introduced
into society, where his many accomplishments
ensure him a welcome, and where he shrieks with
laughter when be reads the complaints sent to the
papers by dupes he never saw. One thing is certain.
While we would like to dawdle round four
hours a day at a stretch to see these
rascals in regulation suits doing square work on
the Government roads, we have no pity at all for
the noodles who allow themselves to be so trans-
parently plundered.
Newspaper Postage.
It was scarcely worth while dealing in leading
type with the small subject of the free car-
riage and delivery by post of newspapers, re-
ferred to by Mr. Copeland in his letter. The
attack is a perfectly legitimate one, and constitutes
a very pretty little effort to obey the maxim which
exhorts warriors to carry the war into the enemy’s
camp. But Mr. Copeland forgets that newspaper
proprietors did not vote free postage for them-
selves, which seems to us to constitute a consider-
able difference from the position of a Minister who
puts £20,000 on the Estimates to improve the value
of his own property. And, further, the free car-
riage of newspapers is not an Indulgence en-
joyed by one section or clique in the colony
to the disadvantage of all the rest. There
is probably not a man who has a fixed place of
abode who does not I ake in a newspaper. Every-
body gets his paper carried by post free of charge.
And everybody contributes his share of the cost
by contributing to the general revenue. Or
granting that there are some who do not take a
newspaper, although they have to contribute to
the revenue and thus defray part of the expenses
of postage, it is a question of public policy whether
it is not well to encourage free and wide dissemi-
nation of news as a means of educating the public,
for instance, to appreciate such enterprizes
as the Lake Macquarie bar improvement.
In any case, postage would not fall upon the
publishers of newspapers. The readers would
have to pay in one shape or other the extra
expense, whether the tax took the form to them
of receiving less news value for their money, or of
paying the Increased price for papers posted.
France in Tonquin.
With powerful and ostentatiously hostile alliances
against her on one frontier, and with her southern
neighbour clamouring for admission among them,
the present position of France is far from pleasant.
It has, therefore, occasioned no end of surprise to
see a nation, which may require to-morrow every
one of her sons who can shoulder a musket, frit-
tering away her strength in one small expedition,
and light-heartedly drifting into war with the most
populous power in the world. The causes which
led up to French interference in Tonquin are as
curious as they are infamous. The project was
conceived in the fertile brain of an adventurer,
and suckled by a strumpet. As the monks said of
Luther and his predecessor, one laid the egg and
the other hatched it. Jean Dupuis was the pro-
moter—the courtesan, Valtesse de i.a Bione.
Dupuis was one day wandering in Yunnan, dis-
guised as a Mahometan, when he found himself
wet. He had tripped into a little sparkling stream.
“ What river is this?” he asked. “The Sangkoi,”
was the reply. “Surely not the Red River, of
Tonquin?” he cried, excitedly. “The same,”
replied his companions, epigrammatically. Then
he stole away, scooped a log hollow, constructed a
rude paddle, and struck for the stream’s mouth.
Beetling cliffs, whose heads touched heaven,
treacherous rapids, dense jungle, haunt of the tiger
and scarcely less savage pirate, and long stretches
of wide, deep, gently-flowing river, margined with
peaceful village and prosperous city were passed,
until the daring adventurer found himself at
Hanoi, and guessed he was the only European who
knew the Red River to be navigable from its
source. Here was an unequalled outlet for an
enormous trade. To whom would he sell his
secret V It was already known and zealously
guarded by the Chinese. Just as they knew of
printing, gunpowder, and the mariners’ compass,
and kept the knowledge to themselves. They
wanted no extension of commerce, with its atten-
dant danger of introducing new ideas. It ■was to
Prance he would go, and he went. He promised
his countrymen Tonquin, and the untold wealth on
the banks of the Saigon. That it was not his to
give was of little moment. This only made the
gift more captivating. In Paris he won two
persons to his cause—Commander Rivieres (since
killed), and Mile. Vautesse. Rivieres was a
novelist and a sailor ; Mademoiselle at the head of
the wrong half-world. They had long been
friends. “Rayon d’Or” she was known by, which
is an improvement on “Moonlight Sal,” or the
“Great Eastern”—names given to people by
imaginative Far Northern Australians. Roused to
enthusiasm by Dupuis' representation, she grew
tired of the Jardin Bullier, where, with her
friend Mile, de Lizy, she had so often led
the “ brawls.” She bought a large house, furnished
it with literary treasures, from Herodotus
to Balzac, taking in Dante, Shakespeare and
Goethe en route. Bronzes from Barye, statues
of Carrier-Beleusb, canvases of Breton and
Jacquet were scattered about. Then she invited
the literati of Paris. They came. They always
do, when anything really good is “ hanging to it.”
But the Tonquin business hung fire, until, in a
moment of inspiration, she wrote to Gambetta,
assuring him of her “ distinguished consideration,”
and requesting an interview. The gallant Presi-
dent accorded it, and sent his “ distinguished senti-
ments.” They met at the Palais Bourbon. It
struckherthathewasdirty, and “smeltof garlic;”
but as he was Republican, and she fiercely Legltl-
matlst, this has to be received with caution. She
begged pardon for the material and construction
of her dress—It was light and decollate; spoke of
the weather, the opera bouffe, and Bismarck, until
she noticed the statesman uneasily shift his seat
and get nearer the bell. Then she unmasked her
Tonquin battery. She told how the Red River
pirates were the terror of the country—the Chinese
suzerainty held in contempt ; how the people
would open their arms to any army of occupation
that would guarantee good government, and as
they had heard how nobly the French behaved in
Algiers, they would prefer a French protectorate.
Imaginative descriptions of breezy upland and
fertile plain—of virgin forests, where copper, coal,
iron, gold, and gems awaited the explorer—and of a
river which would roll the wealth of China to the
sea—dazzled the President. Enough. The tiny
lucifer, set aflame by the schemes of a schemer,
protected by the smiles of a Cyprian, and fed by
the ambition of an advocate, may set half the
world in a blaze.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“Charles Baker”: We are not aware.
Some time ago, the Indian Government offered a
very large prize to induce invention of a machine
to deal with fibrous plants, hut we think no satis-
factory machine was put in “ Quid Pro Quo ” :
Send name and address... “Walter G”: Vos, if
you send much livelier matter “Straight”:
Jones and Adams. All others doubtful.. “ Erinow-
hoo”: W. Macdonnell, George-street, Sydney, can
supply you, and will do your order justice
“W.H.H.”: A lively par., not too long, would be
sufficient— “ Indicator ”: Your stray notes of the
Mayor’s ball are stupid. No one in N.S.W. has the
least desire to hear how Betsy danced, or where
Larry raised the swallow-tail. If anyone ever
raises your swallow-tail, it will probably be to put
a boot under it—“G.C.J.”: Send anything really
good.
We do not undertake to return rejected
communications. Writers should keep copies.
The Lancet now startles its readers with
a fresh terror. Fever is circulated to an alarming
extent by the lending libraries. The last exciting
romance of Miss Braddon or Mr. Payn is habitually
placed in the hands of patients recovering from
contagious forms of disease. When the'patient
has read it, it goes back full of germs to the library,
and instantly passes out again to another family
circle. Of course, one is sorry for the healthy
people who run up an undertaker’s bill through a
fondness for light literature, but some pity also
can be spared for the weary sufferer, who, having
been inoculated with small-pox straight from “A
Golden Calf,” takes the scarlet fever from “A
Maid called Barbara,” typhus on the top of that
from “My Sister the Actress,” and winds up with
diphtheria taken unsuspectingly from “All Sorts
and Conditions of Men.”


The Great No. 11 Osborne Twine Binder.
VICTORY, with waving plume, has perched upon
the OSBORNE banner,
Time-tried and true, she wears the blue in a most
triumphant manner.
As true as steel upon the field, no equal yet as met
her,
And if you haven’t bought an OSBORNE yet, wo
you
tell you you’d better.
\\9. Vi
%
m
glNCHAHV^r
gy ■ j,,r r
-1 ; *
T’
TIE NEW OSBORNE No. 11 TWINE-BINDING HARVESTER has created the greatest excitement
a nong farmers and manufacturers ever known in the United States. The D. M. Osborne Manu-
facturing Comnanv of Auburn, N.Y., the largest and most wealthy manufacturers of Agricultural
Implements in America, have produced a Twine Binder, which has Placed themu at every.fieldtrial,
where Hanlan usually is. The American press is teeming with news of the OSBORNE victories, as
well as attempts at blackmail by some of their rivals winning victories on paper, &c., &c.
This new and indispensible machine for farmers’ use has been so reduced in its mechanical parts
that, at the numerous field trials, she has won the admiration of her greatest rivals.
The following is the official report of the Kentucky Agricultural and Mechanical Association of
the greatest field tidal ever held in the U.S.:
“ Lexington, Ky., June 31,1883.
“D. M. OSBORNE & CO.,
“In the field trial of Twine-binder Reaping Machines held by the Kentucky Agricultural and
Mechanical Association on the farm of Mr. J. B. Clay, near Lexington, on the 12th instant, the premium
No. 11 Osborne twine Binder as the best. The Judges who made
the award were five in number, and were selected with great care by a Committee of Directors of the
Association, and wo regard them as competent and reliable. There were eleven twine binders entered
and worked viz • Osborne, No. 11: M’C<>rmiek ; Woods ; Deenng ; Buckeye ; Minneapolis ; Dennett;
Champion ; ’St. Paul; and Buckeye and Deering low down,
“ H. P. KINKEAD,
“ Sec’y Ky. Agricultural & Mechanical Ass’n.”
She has no plunger bolts nor springs, I A pair of horses and a lady driver-
And neither clogs, nor fails to tie ; I How is that tor high ?
A farmer near Austin. Texas, says:—“I can now make good use of my daughters, since I pur-
chased the Osborne, No. 11. They are pretty good drivers, and that is all I find necessary with this
ma °The e “ Cincinnati Enquirer,” of June 20th, contains the following report of the trial , ,
“ Twine-Binders.—-The Osborne carries off the Gold Medal.—Special Dispatch to the Enquirer*
-Lexington, Ky., June 19.-At the twine-binder contest for this city to-day, the first prize, a handsome
gold medal, was awarded to the Osborne twine-binder, after a hotly-contested field trial, lasting all day.
Inhere were eleven machines entered In the contest, and t/iede/eatcd ones are the M Cormlck, Deering
(elevator), Deering (low-dswn), Minneapolis, 8t. Paul, Champion, Buckeye (elevator), Buckeye (low-
down) Walter A. Woods, and Dennett. The test was a severe one, the final trial being in badly matted
and^tangled grain ; but the Osborne did its work thoroughly and well, and was justly awarded the first
prize. This prize from the Lexington Agricultural and Mechanical Association speaks highly for the
merits of the Osborne, having been awarded by wholly disinterested and highly honourable Judges, and
nlaces the Osborne at the head of all twine-binders. _ . . .
p MR. WILUAM FLEMING, 82 and 2* Clarenoc-street, Sydney, is Sole Agent.
T HE LAKE MACQUARIE DODGE.
nt- vr Bulletin,—Your humorous leader on the
hnve subject is the most amusing contribution
a hnve vet been favoured with, and is a lifting
"Tnfi-up to our side-splitting, bingle-busting
dltion to the Lake—where you will be glad to
tnrtw the gold-top was fizzing ami the spring
Mi-kens delicious, to say nothing of oysters and
°?v,pr good things to bo had in abundance just
0 hpn we felt “ dispoged.” No wonder we “ got at”
■“ a M Herald and other knights of the pend 1 ,
pa in the full light of day, too—and lam more,
han half inclined to think that, had we had the
insure of your company The Bulletin would
Maphave been got at; but then the country would
aver have been enlightened as to the Confidence
Trick—so we must console ourselves, inasmuch as
nm- loss, old fellow, was the public gain, and we
Innwtherelis a destiny that shapes our ends, rough
c,, me times) fi e w them as we may. But it was
Either too bad of you to expose our hand just
»hpn we were getting into the straight running,
what will the Harbours and Rivers people have
to say now they discover that they have been got
at A a fto the Members voting the last £20,000 to-
wards opening the Lake, notwiths anding both
mvself and several other members were known to
hp personally interested in it, this would not sur-
prise vou, if you knew as much of them as I do;
Fnr between ourselves, they are such crass fools as
to think that members, like other people, must
hold land somewhere, or hold something, if it’s
onlv a good libel action, unless they have a per-
manent supply of tickets for the Soup Kitchen.
Jr.' CO ursc, during recess, the latter may be dis-
pensed Iwith, as “ stutllng ” can then be taken
ihoard ad lib , and even gold-top swizzle is at a
discount, especially if you keep in the wake of a
Minister or two; but at other times, as you know,
the small coin does get absorbed at a fearful rate.
Therefore, experience has taught us that it is
necessary to hold a bit of laud somewhere; then,
", Henry George in his “ Progress and Poverty ”
tells us, “ you may sit down and smoke your nipe;
vnu may lie around like the lazzaroni of Naples, or
the leperos of Mexico; you may go up in a balloon,
nr down a hole in the ground, and, without doing
one stroke of work, without adding one iota to
the wealth of the community, in ten years you
" Mr^George's doctrines may do very well in the
States but they don’t work out well at Lake Mac-
niiarie, that’s certain ; for I have held laud there
these ten years, and have done all he says you
raav do, except going up in a balloon ; but I don’t
find myself rich—not very. An 1 why ? Because,
though the place is teeming with mineral and
other wealth, it might as well be all in the bottom-
less pit. You could get it out of one just as well
as the other, at present, and to open mines there
under existing ordinary circumstances would be
iustas wise as if the people of Orange had com-
menced to grow wheat for export when the rail-
way was only at Parramatta; and your arguments
against granting successive sums towards the
opening of the Lake appear to me just about as
logical as if some Orange gossoon had exclaimed :
“Unless you give us the railway from Sydney to
Orange in one act we won’t have it—we object to
its being built in short sections, as the money is
voted for it from time to time.” Was not New-
castle harbour made in this way? In fact, is it not
at present being so made ; and the same with the
Clarence, and other places? Only recently we were
making the southern channel in Sydney harbour,
by sums voted from year to year.
Your next tunny item is the following: “They
(the Members) would have learned that the sum
had been placed upon the estimates either without
decent enquiry as to its sufficiency for accom-
plishing the purpose for which it was voted upon
misleading information, or with a withheld know-
ledge that unless that vote were followed up by
the voting of many larger sums, the money might
as well,” etc. Sir, go down on your marrow bones
this night and thank Providence the age of “ pis-
tols for two” is left behind, or most assuredly
your successor would have been reading these
lines. Really, Mr. Editor, have you never heard
of our Harbours and Kivers Department ? and are
you not aware that, by lecent borings, we find
that, instead of a supposed rock bar, which would
only permit (when dredged) of some 7 or 8 feet of
water, there is only a moderate expenditure of
money required to give 25 feet of w ter on the bar
at low tide, as the supposed rock bar has resolved
Itself into horizontal layers of shingle, drift, and
clay? 1 say a moderate expenditure, because,
whether it is £20,000—the estimated sum—or
whether it is half a million, it will be cheap at the
price; and, in works of that nature, it is impossible
for any engineer to definitely fix the sum until it
is completed. It was stated, the other day, that
2 % millions had been expended at Newcastle, yet
I don’t think even the editor of The Bulletin
would say it was an unwise expenditure, though I
dare say his prototype may, at the time, have
said; “ We warn the public to keep an eye on the
Newcastle Ring. It is trying quite a new ‘ fake ’—
a political * Confidence Dodge.’ It has charming
manners and an easy guileless address.”
Then, Mr. Editor, what about your own share of
the public plunder? Are you equally “ frank and
candid” when you are shovelling a few tons of
your last issue into the Post Office, to be carried to
the uttermost ends of th i colonies, free of charge,
by train, by steamer, by c .ach, and on horseback,
to places so out of the way that you could not
raise a whisky within 20 miles, even on week days ?
We carried, last year, 16,538,100 newspapers, which
at an average of six to the lb, would make 1230 tons
of mail matter carried free by post, and the loss on
working that branch of the department was, for
the same period, £73,000. Yet, if I want to send a
Bible to my friends I must pay ever so much
postage. Think of this. Sir, and repent ere it is too
late, for, using your own words in reference to the
Lake, “The effrontery of the whole business is
absolutely staggering.”
You evidently struck a patch hero. “ They (the
land-owners) chiefly will be benefited by a water-
way being opened to the sea. Let them provide
the bulk of the money. According to their own
showing, to open the channel will unlock vast
mineral wealth— their vast mineral wealth—and
will convert the district into a second Newcastle
district—o/ theirs .” Now, Mr. Editor, you thought
you were dead on to nuggets, when you underlined
those “theirs,’’but will you kindly inform us in your
next, when the land and mineral wealth was not
‘‘theirs” some time before the Government was
induced to make a harbour, remove a bar, build a
railway or even a bridge or culvert; and do not a
number of land-owners indulge in picnics to
Ministers and Members before any and all of these
works are undertaken, and have any of these land-
owners been asked to dub up £2 for every £1
towards their cost—and, if not, why not ?
This policy of the State doing everything for
everybody is, wisely or unwisely, the present policy
ef the country; and, like Protection, to be equit-
able, it must go all round. And the fact of this
district being neglected so long, notwithstanding
its many Members and ex-Membors—many more
than you alluded to—being interested in it, is the
very best answer to the inferences of your leader,
and shows what an utterly unselfish race we legis-
lators are: for although much of this land has been
8 °l<i from ten to twenty years, and a good deal of it
at £2 per acre, there is scarcely a mile of made read,
fiqr a bridge or culvert, in the entire district. Yet
a is a place that any country in the world would be
Proud to possess—for, once inside the Lake, you
could drop both Sydney and Newcastle harbours
mto it without finding them again. The climate is
grand, oranges and other fruits grow luxuriantly,
tne waters abound with splendid fish (not of the
genus “land-shark”), while on the back lands are
•jjme of the finest timber reserves in the country
(timber oven for the Southern railway having been
brought from there), while under the surface every-
wnere is an abundance of coal. I have no doubt
toe fine seam 12 feet thick, discovered several years
Wo at a depth of 260 feet below sea level by Messrs,
nardleand Gorman, will be found under the whole
Raters of the Lake, and as this is all let by Govern-
S. e £t at a royalty of 0d. per ton, a sum of at least
w,000,000 will ultimately be derived from this
jource alone. Besides, there arc numerous reserves,
and a large area of unsold Crown lands yet to be
n>8po*ed of, most of which will contain coal. But
■t present all this wealth lies dormant,
In conclusion, my dear Bulletin, let me advMse
you to “ go get yourself a piece of ground and hold
possession.” Then “ you may lie around like the
fazzaroni of Naples, or theleperos of Mexico,” and
in ton years you will be rich. Yours, &c.,
HENRY COPELAND.
August 27,1883.
Mr. John Whitton.
We give, on our front page this week, a
portrait of Mr. John Whittou, Engineer-in-
Chief for the N.S.W. Railways. Mr. Whitton
was born at Wakefield, Yorkshire, in 1819,
and came out to New South Wales, highly
recommended by the first railway engineers
of the day, as in every way fitted for tue post
of Engineer-iu-Chief for the works of this
colony. The appointment was conferred on
him, March 27, 1856. The battle of the
gauges found in Mr. Whitton a staunch
advocate for the standard English gauge
of four feet eight inches, and its gene-
ral adoption in these colonies will doubt-
less one day be an accomplished fact. The
work which has been carried out under
Mr. Whitton’s superintendence bears a
stamp of most substantial character, and
on the whole the permanent way of N.S. NV.
may be reckoned among the best and
solid est in the world. Mr. Whitton’s greatest
undertaking was the construction of the
Zigzag over the Blue Mountains—an accom-
plishment that has given him an enduring
reputation for engineering skill.
Mr. W. J. Wilson, of the Opera House,
Sydney.
We give, in this issue, a portrait of Mr. W.
J. Wilson, the well-known scenic artist, and
now lessee and manager of the Opera House
in this city. Very few men connected with
theatrical affairs in these colonies have a
wider or better reputation. For close upon
35 years, Mr. Wilson has been professionally
known to the Australian public, and there is
hardly a public jiriut in any one of the cities
of the group that has not, at one time or
other, paid tribute to his artistic abilities.
Mr. Wilson is the son of a celebrated scenic
artist, whose reputation lives in the history
of the London stage, and the grandson of
John Wilson, R.S A., a ycotch marine
painter, who, with six or seven others, drove
the foreign artists out of London, and
founded the famous Society of British
Artists (1824). Mr. W. J. Wilson, the subject
of our sketch, came to the colonies at the
age of twenty, and made his first
notable success in the production of the
mammoth sketch of the “ Fall of Sebas-
topol,” for Cremorne Gardens, Melbourne.
His work at the principal theatres almost
revolutionised the system of productions on
the C' lonial stage, and there’s scarcely any
marked success here in opera or drama with
which Mr. Wilson’s name is not associated.
Fifteen years ago he successfully opened
and managed the Princess Theatre, in Dune-
din, and now, after a career of over thirty
years, during which period he has main-
tained a reputation for enterprise and int eg-
rity, he is to be found the successful lessee
and manager of the Opera House, Sydney
now one of the best paying concerns in the
colonies. [Our sketch is from a photo, by
Riisfeldt.]
Political Points
Justice Stone, of West Australia, sits in the
Legislative Council as nue of the Government
nominee members ! I !
Lord Derby says Australia is not likely to
be “ looted ” In case of war, as the greatest part of
its wealth was to be found in London. Nothing
like going from home to hear the news.
Female suffrage has been delayed mainly
because a case might arise where the husband was
Premier and the wife leader of the Opposition.
It was at once seen that the questions probably
asked of that there Government by this here
Opposition would lead to recrimination and blood-
shed.
Those colonists who desire the annexation
of New Guinea should bless that reverend deputa-
tion that waited on “ Jamie” Service and induced
him to grab at the New Hebrides as well. Hut tor
the greed displayed, the little rag the Queensland
policeman and his “aides” ran up modestly to
warn off foreigners might be flying still. Moral
(old, but true): “ The boy and the nuts.”
Thady O’Kane, who is a candidate for
election to the Queensland Parliament, had a two-
column address in his own paper. Thady goes
goes straight all the time, and characteristically re-
marks: “another incubus is Law, and a reform is
urgently required to sweep away the piles of rub-
bish heaped by hungry lawyers for their own pro-
fit and emoluments to the loss and misery of thou-
sands of honest men.” This comes aptly enough
from Thady O’Kane, but it would sound splendid
from the lips of, say, Sir James Martin. It is a
queer thing that although there have been hosts
of “ great lawyers,” there has never been one of
them a groat man, or at least great man enough to
lead the way in sweeping away “ the piles of rub-
bish heaped up by hungry lawyers for their own
profit,” although the existence of such piles is ad-
mitted by every Judge, and perhaps it is only a
first-class Judge who could show how to clear
away the useless without injury to the useful pro-
cesses of law. But It is quite certain that if the
thing be not done tor the people, the people will
one day tear and smash for themselves. This will
be a pity, because justice may temporarily sutfei - ,'
as well as law. But even this will be better than
submission to see bad Law smothering Justice with
its vile malignant growth.
Will Bolton bolt? That is the question the
electors of Moira (V.) have been asking these
three months. He has been running about in a
most mysterious manner lately. He got business
to do In the backblocks, and left behind him the
rumour that he had left for good. Thereupon the
Subllcans rubbed their hands and Mr. D. 0.
[’Carthy O’Leary put a clean shirt in his carpet
bag and set out to canvass. But Bolton made
bacon at the stately barrister. Then Bolton ran
to 8v dney, and with Sir Patrick cleared for the
North. Out stepped the big-boned George Graham,
who was for pummelling the AbQUO lately, for
saying that he helped contractors about Wunghnu
to run up prices against the shire, but Bolton sud-
denly re-appeared and said the rumour was a lark.
However, the publicans again rubbed their hands,
for each rumour quickened trade, and set rival
committees in motion. Now the report is out
again, and this time the groat O’Leary, Graham,
Inglis, and the unhappy Sir Bryan, are laying
themselves up against the ears of everyone living
within ten miles of the boundary line. “ We don’t
like to go to the incipient expense until we as-
certain whether the rumour has a basis in fact.”
Come now, ex-postmaster, is it true that you have
an interest in the publican line in the district, and
that you are only playing off to keep things lively ?
It’s hardly fair, however, to make O’Leary wear
his clean shirt, and to spoil the peace of Wunghnu
with the rehearsals of George Graham’s speech to
the electors. Bolt off, Bolton 1
Lord Randolph Churchill being the coining
man, and the son of a Duke, it will interest those
who dislike coming men and Ducal scions to learn
that Lord B. got rather a nasty “deal” the other
day. Like Mercutio, he will “ say more in an hour
than he will stand to in a week;” and, in the course
of a speech, used in connection with the horny-
handed the terms “dregs” and “scum.” Well, a
working man with a turn for poetry replied to
Lord Randolph in a poem, of which the following
is a portion :—
“ Now whether they are right or wrong,
I do not care a farthing candle ;
But ‘ dregs ’ and ‘ scum ’ are words too strong,
And weapons paupers should not handle.
For ’tis the dregs his income pays,
From workmen comes the food that fills him,
And when he shines with dazzling rays,
It is the toilers’ gold that gilds him.
Contempt he showers upon the poor ;
And so it seems a trifle funny
That Randolph, like some thousands more.
Condemns the scum hut takes their money!
Well, let him sneer ; the time may come
When Randolph, now so great and clever.
Will find the dregs, the mob, the scum.
Will not keep saucy Lords for ever !”
Of course “ shines with dazzling rays ” is not great,
but the man who wrote the lines was evidently very
much in earnest. This leads to the conclusion that
the English working-man has irritation in his com-
position, which is amusing, though not surprising,
considering there is in him so little beef. Alter
all, what is there in “ dregs ” and “scum ?” Hardly
anything to get offended about! Dozens of these
epithets wouldn’t have the effect of making us
“ drop into poetry.” But if anyone called us a
Supreme Court But hero we will pause, and
consider what, in that case, we should do. When
we have made up our minds (and are safely en-
sconced in Madagascar) we will lot you know.
The Queen draws £385,000 yearly from the
Consolidated Revenue, and receives also from the
Duchy of Lancaster £41,000 a year. The Prince of
Wales has £40,000 a year from the Revenue, and
about £60,000 a year besides (the revenues of the
Duchy of Cornwall). The Dukes of Edinburgh
and of Connaught have each £25,000 a year, the
Princess of Wales £10,000, and other princelets and
princesses draw from £.‘1000 to £12,000 a year each
from our bleeding country. The total cash is
£640,000 a year among fourteen persons. But
there’s a lot besides this that’s kept dark. The
Royal yachts are paid for out of the Navy votes.
It was recently discovered that one alone—the
Victoria and Albert—has cost for maintenance
£30,000 a year for the past ten years. The vessel
is old and crazy, but the Queen won’t hoar of
having it broken up; so it’s to be repaired at a
cost of £60,000. The dear old craft is connected
with many sweet memories of Prince Albert, who
made many voyages in her with the Queen, and
invariably suffered tortures from sea-sickness.
The Queen has never allowed the cabin fittings to
be altered, and there is still the very identical
settee on which Albert used to writhe while he
moaned: “ Kill me, Victoria Alexandr-(ger-ooup !)-
Ina. Kill me, if that’s the form (yaouchl) your
devotion takes. But give me an easier death.”
Then Her Majesty (who was constitutionally free
from sea-sickness) used to say coldly; “Pray,
Albert, don’t be childish.” “Here, you” (to the
Earl of Aberdeen, or Lord Palmerston, or whoever
happened to be Minister in attendance), “get up
off the floor, and hand His Royal Highness the
basin.”
The starchiest Methodist known resides at
Moonta (S.A.). He isan entire-horse, and rejoices
in the name of “John Wesley.” However, he has
one consolation. He isn’t an entire ass.
An Auckland (N.Z.), paper trusts that a
monkey escaped from there, will not bo allowed to
land at Sydney or Melbourne. It insinuates that
we might suspect he was an informer. Let them
bo calm. Badly as wo think of the informers, we
never thought so badly of them as to be likely to
mistake one of them for an Auckland editor.
Monday last, the day upon which Tnckett
and Beach met to decide the rubber, turned out
calm, and, as we anticipated, the Dapto man out-
paced the ex-champion, and won by four or live
lengths, in 20min. itsoo. Wo have always been
under the impression that Trlckett has never been
the same man since he lost a Anger, and it really
seems a pity that he ever got into a boat after the
mishap. But, like Belcher, the famous English
pugilist, who lost aa eye in the Tennis Court, ho
cannot realize that he must give way to young
blood. When Belcher was in the sere and yellow
leaf, he grew jealous of the success of his young
pupil, Mr. Pearce, the “Game Chicken,” and
would Insist on Aghting him. Pearce stood a lot
from his old mentor, but, seeing he was not to be
denied, agreed to a meet ng. “ If I have to flght-
en,” said the “Chicken,” in his Bristol dialect, to
Belcher's friends, “ I’ll Aght-cn, but I won’t hit-en
in the sound eye,” and sure enough he defeated
poor old Jem without once landing on his only
peeper. How much bettor it would have been
tor both the Englishman and Australian if they
had retired after meeting with their respective
accidents ! Belcher would have had an unbeaten
record, and Trlckett would have retired as "cham-
pion of the world,” with only supposition as to
whether Hanlan could have beaten him.
A boy of 19, residing at Stephenston (S.A.),
named S. E. Bastian George, claims to be a mind-
reader—in some respects excelling liico — and
declares he has possessed this faculty for Ave years
past. He affirms that at times he is “able to tell
what the thought of another is without taking his
hand or touching him,” provided he has made two
or three previous trials. George endeavours to
account for thought-reading on the score of elec-
tricity, and says: “ The electricity from my friend’s
system is drawn into mine, and naturally my
thoughts act similarly to his. The nearer one
battery is pla ced to another, so much the easier and
quicker is a telegraphic message despatched and
received by the other ; so by placing the hand of
my 1 1 lend to my forehead, I gather his thought
much quicker than by simply holding his hand in
mine. The oftener Ins mind is led astray by other
causes, the harder is it for me to gain information,
although occasionally 1 grasp even the wanderings
of his mind in part, without deciphering the object
or objects precisely. That electricity or electric
matter has something to do with the subject
none would doubt, a.ter once watching a per-
formance, and more especially if they were
once operated on. The brain, to me, seems
to be a great electric battery, sending out its
shocks all through the system. 1 know when I am
Eerforming 1 feel my pulse throb as if it would
urst. Why ? I cannot toll, unless it is tho
electric power in another's system agitating tho
electric Auid in mine.” Hold ! If you want to
arrive at a proper valuation of the “mind-reading”
theory, just read Labouchere’s article in Truth
concerning Irving Bishop. “Labby,” after
accusing Bishop of fraud, and stating the ground
of his accusation, remarks thatjthe Yankee is “not
only an impostor, but an impostor of the most
vulgar typo." Tho article affords splendid food
for reflection on the part of those deluded
people who put faith in tho utterances of
“clairvoyants” and other humbugs. There
arc men in Sydney who, during the year,
“earn'’ thousands of pounds from sick people of
all classes—barristers and grooms alike—by pro-
fessing to diagnose cases which have puzzled tho
qualifled practitioner. But, supposing you got a
man who is suffering from some obscure though
well-marked disease, of the existence of which in
the patient half-a-dozen experienced diagnosti-
cians, acting independently, nave satlsiled them-
selves beyond doubt—suppose, we say, you take
two or three such men to a “clairvoyant,” tho
latter can no more accurately discern the nature of
the patient's maladies than he can fly from Sydney
to Tasmania. And, by the way, supposing that a
man of Irving Bishop’s standing were to come to
Sydney and take to “clairvoyance," and be de-
nounced by a newspaper as a “ vulgar impostor !’
Whew I What would tho jury of nightmen say V


PEPPER AND SALT.
Our civilization isn’t quite a failure after
all. We have a Zoological Gardens. We went
there the other day, and were pleasantly impressed.
The Zoo Is a good sized paddock, with a little pond
In the middle, a few primitive cages, and a pavilion
in which the members sip claret and divide their
attention between the peacock and the elephant.
Besides these attractions, there is an emu, who will
swallow anything on earth but the Evening News,
and a little tiger that would make a convenient
foot-muff. It is the mildest tiger we ever struck—
so mild as to be almost demure. And the rule, we
suppose, Is laid down out of consideration for this
ferocious creature that “ no dogs are admitted ’ to
the gardens. If the dog In our yard only growled
near the cage of that monster of the forest, it
would, we should say, faint with alarm. We tried
for a hour to make him growl, but without avail.
We pelted him with blsoult, and bombarded him
with nuts, but he only smiled. We got Mr,
Bradley then by the button-hole, and asked
him what made the tiger so pensive. “ Was he,”
we said, “ In love with the dingo, or mashed on the
emu ?” Mr. B. said, without a smile, that he had
never recovered the effect of a “funny ” valentine
of which he had been the recipient on the 14th of
February last. “ Don’t you think, sir,” we re-
joined, “ a change would do him good ?” “ Oh, I ve
tried taking him to my house,” was the grave re-
ply; “ but he Is so frightened when he sees the cat
that his removal quite upset his nervous system.”
“ What food does his ordinary diet consist of,” we
aaid—“ isinglass ?” “No,” he replied, “snuff.” We
then walked sadly away, to pursue our zoological
studies In another direction, and proceeded later
to Interview the elephant. This animal is (why is
this ?) as small for an elephant as the tiger is for a
tiger. He has a large forehead, a loud snort, and
Bomehow reminded us of a certain reverend pastor.
We don’t quite know the reason—unless it was
because of his appetite. There is a Siamese on his
back, and he told us that the elephant would tackle
every kind of fruit and every kind of weed—ex-
cept tobacco. He told us this in his own language.
We were, therefore, bound to believe him. But
we tested the statement by giving “ our Jumbo ”
(we are quoting Alfred) whole lemons, bananas
with the skins on, oranges, biscuits, nuts, toffee,
and liquorice. He took them all with equal relish,
or with equal indifference. And, funny enough,
the more he opened his mouth the more he put us
In mind of the Pastor aforesaid. The Illusion, how-
ever, was spoilt when wo discovered that he made,
in the course of our Interview, no allusion to either
William of Orange or “ Bloody Mary,” Altogether,
the Zoo is rather an enthralling exhibition, but
we think its attractions would be enhanced by the
addition, say, of a guinea-pig and a few white
mice. Unless you kill the coloured youth on the
gate, you have to pay 6d. to go in.
• • •
The linguistic editor of the Herald has
evidently gone on a preaching expedition, or has
overslept himself at a camp-meeting. In Monday's
paper we see that the reviewer of Lord Ronald
Gower’s “reminiscences” says that he (the author)
possesses just as much of that “ self-complacency
which In the nouvelle (sic) riche he promptly con-
demns.” We have all heard of dog-Latin, so we
suppose this Is oat-Prench I Lord Ronald, by the
way, is a great sculptor—or thinks he Is; but what
attracted more attention to him than even his
sculpture did was a row he had, now long ago, with
the editor of a London society paper, who, It was
mysteriously announced, had made “scandalous
imputations ” against his Lordship. Lord Ronald
commenced a criminal prosecution, but it suddenly
dropped.'and it was understood that the “noble
Lord” had “accepted an apology.” There were
some very peculiar rumours about London at
that time, chiefly perhaps because popular feel-
ing against the “Prince’s party” ran high
on account of the Mordaunt business. Lord
Ronald, when out here, It may be casually said,
was noted for eccentric acts of Individual gene-
rosity. Like Lord Byron, £80 a year would have
kept him In all the luxuries (we mean gastronoml-
cal luxuries) he wanted for himself; but to ser-
vants, for Instance, he was extraordinarily lavish.
Coming over In the Zealandia, he gave his bed-
room steward £30 and a set of jewellery worth £50,
and his donations to Sir Hercules’ lackeys were
equally munificent. Wa have these interesting’
facts from a society writer who was, on festive
occasions, frequently invited to Government
House at that period, and treated with great dis-
tinction-in the pantry. We may remark that the
samples we’ve perused of Lord Ronald s book load
us chiefly to the conclusion that he is a man whose
purse weighs a good deal heavier than his mind. We
are bound to admit, however, that when Lord R.
was here we had not the pleasure of a personal
introduction to him. We forget how it was. Either
at that time we were on terms of coolness with R.
B. Smith, or were taking in mangling. Both, pro-
bably. For anyone, who took in mangling, except a
free, Independent, and enlightened elector of the
Macleay, would be on cool terms with Cupid.
That reminds us. Why doesn’t R. B. write his
reminiscences, and give to the world the touching
story of that Prince-protecting parapluie ?
* * *
We have frequently—as probably our
readers have observed —noticed the Salvation
Army. This attention on our side has been partly
due to a laudable desire to send a show along,
and partly with a view of demonstrating that we
have a reverence for religion, even if it assume a
form which the sceptical might pronounce to be
just a trifle outri. IWe take this opportunity, how-
ever, of remarking that, on all subjects pertaining
to religion, if v/e are anything, we are not scep-
tical !—Ed. B.] July the third was, it seems, the
18th anniversary of the Harmy. And, from a
table published in the Hobqan, we see, to our
discomfiture, that the Salvationists possess no
less than 4547 bandsmen, 1800 “officers ” and that
11,640 “services” are held every week. This is
lucid enough—terribly lucid, In fact; but the
next paragraph in the official document has
shed over it a glamour of uncertainty
calculated to intrigue the enquiring spirit. It
says: “The Increases this year, reckoning for the
villages, which require even more work than the
corps (sic), and therefore show more activity [I! I],
are at the rate of 130 per cent, corps; over 90 per
cent, services held weekly; and 75 per cent, officers,
showing that more than double as much is done
now in proportion to each officer than before.
This is a specimen of the elegant style of Genera.'
Booth’s composition—though it is only fair to state
that some of the confusion apparent in it may be
due to the original editing of the gifted Suther-
land. Wo notice, too, with a grief that is sincere,
that the Sydney contingent has sustained a loss in
the person of one of the Hallelujah Lasses. We
thought, at one time, that we had a pretty light
touch in the elegiac line. But we don’t think so
any more. This is the sympathetic thing that has
crushed us:—“After the service was over, our
Major gave out the hymn, ‘ Will you meet me at
the Fountain ?’ and if ever we felt we would meet
anyone at the Fountain, wo would meet Sister
Cockren there.’” No one—and last of all, our-
selves—would wish to question the facile pen of
Captain Reynolds, who is the author of this touch-
ing in memoriam mem., but the question arises in
our mind as to whether the captain has not let his
emotion outrun that strict and cool discretion
which should be the foremost characteristic of the
accomplished journalist. Now, but in a jingle
If Sister Cockren’s gone where you
Assume—now that she’s turned her toes up—
Might not she, when in realms of blue.
E’en at the Harmy turn her nose up ?
Might not she be—there ! own it, come !—
Full up of you and your big drum ?
You see, if what we’re told’s a fact,
The music at that “ Fount” is nobby ;
They don’t play on a cornet cracked,
Or get protected by a bobby ;
She wont, there, have a rough to hiss her,
Or get a cat upon the “ kisser.”
We’ve seen an angel’oft, in books,
The Venus dreamed and drawn by Dor<S—
Been spellbound by their lovely looks,
Bewitched with all their mystic glory:
So, we think, Cap., when you repair
To that same Fount—she won't he there.
Charles Orton is beginning to make us
tired; but he teaches us that there are more silly
people in the world than we had previously be-
lieved. He says that Creswell is—but let us quote
what he writes to Alfred:—“ I cannot think that
Smith is so foolish as to make such an absurd ap-
plication [to take Creswell home]; butshouldhedo
so, I, as a duty I owe my long-lost brother, will
oppose it, as it is evidently done for the purpose of
making capital out of him.” Charles, it seems, is
in affluence now, and Daniel Smith, the man
whom he came out with, wants to “ hold it.” It
appears that Joe Eckford has found a man in
London whose “ munificence ” is sufficient to take
home the lot of them; but Charles is determined
that Daniel shall be out of it—though how, in the
name of beeswax, Smith is to make capital out
of Charles’ “ long-lost brother ” considerably exer-
cises us. We don’t know whether Creswell is Arthur
Orton or Balgrudie’s aunt, and we are. not con-
cerned to the extent of the airiest transcontinental
about it. All we know is that when we saw Cres-
well in the Asylum he didn’t appear to be anybody.
And ho uses bad language, too, which is ungontlo-
manlv of him. What puzzles us, though, is how
Daniel proposes to take the “ long lost brother”
back on his own account, when he couldn t put
down enough to pay a £10 line. It was only, if we
remember rightly, a collection made by Osman
Day Esq., that got him out. Well, Osman, how-
ever much “munificence” he might be disposed to
plank down for his friend Daniel, is not just now
available. Oh! and we may as well mention that
Charles Orton, Esq., is staying at Eckford s Hotel.
This piece of intelligence, though, should rightly
go under the special heading of “ Fashionable
Arrivals.” But let it pass.
Mr. Swinburne seems to be the English
Looe de Vega in the matter of productiveness;
and we fear that, like Lope de Vega, he has said so
many things that but few of them will live.
Flowers, when planted too thickly together, choke
the life out of each other. So with poems. Mr.
Swinburne’s marvellous command of rhyme has
been his ruin. He has sacrificed clearness to sweet-
ness Bach of his poems is a flower-bed run wild—
a flower-bed having no distinct perfume but a con-
fused mingling of all perfumes. Scores of lines
from Tennyson have been almost incorporated
Into current prose; but who can remember any-
thing written by Mr. Swinburne, once the book is
laid down ? His peculiarly Involved and verbose
diction prevents this. It is melodious, and h?B
an appearance of fictitious strength, like wood
painted to look like iron. But there is little
core for so much rind. His last volume, 'A
Century of Roundels,” is written in a chaster
style than most of the preceding ones ;
but the fact that in it he has chosen the
roundel as a form of expression is an argument
against it to start with. The roundel is a pretty
form of verse for pretty little fancies, but he who
uses it as a vehicle for the conveyance ot all kinds
of thoughts and emotions seems to us to have
more of the dexterity of the versifier than the in-
spiration of the poet. There are in this collection,
however, some charming poems about childhood
which would redeem almost anythin#. Here is
one on “A Baby’s Death —
“ The little eyes that never knew
Light other than of dawning skies,
What new life now lights up anew
The little eyes ?
“ Who knows but on their sleep may rise
Such light as never heaven let through
To lighten earth from Paradise ?
“ No storm, we know, may change the blue
Soft heaven that haply death descries;
No tears, like these in ours, bedew
The little eyes.”
And here is one of three on “Death.” In the first
roundel Man implores Death to spare something
from the general wreck of things. In the second,
Death replies dooming Man to oblivion. In the
third, Man has the last, and thus
“ Death, if thou be or be not, as was said.
Immortal ; if thou make us nought, or we
Survive ; thy power is made but of our dread,
Death, if thou be.
“ Thy might is made out of our fear of thee ;
Who fears thee not hath plucked from off thine
head , ...
The crown of cloud that darkens earth and sea.
“ Earth, sea, and sky, as rain or vapour shed,
Shall vanish ; all the shows of them shall flee ;
Then shall we know full surely, quick or dead,
Death, if thou be.”
The poems we have quoted are about the most
lucid in the collection. Some of the others are
cloudy ; some in the old mellitiuously wordy style.
The conclusion one is compelled to come to after
reading these is that Mr. Swinburne has seen his
best days. His most powerful work was done long
ago, and perhaps he has never done anything’more
artistic than the pieces that appeared in his first
so-much-abused volume —“Poems qnd Ballads.
After all, Sladen is our only hope.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Besides being a peer of the Holy Roman
(holy Moses !) Empire and a Prince of Swabia, the
late Duke of Marlborough was sober—frequently.
The Duchess of Edinburgh, remarks
Alfred, is never known to smile. Not outside, Alf.
dear, perhaps: but how can you tell she don’t
smile inside ? When the Duke is with her, he chiefly
smiles inside, too.
Sir Salmon, we see, got the Duke of Teck
and Princess Polly to dinner again the other day.
It’s really very good of H. 8. Highness to honour
the Victorian millionaire at a time when “his
affairs are seriously embarrassed." Whoop!
A certain man now earning a scanty sub-
sistence by gathering rags and bones about the
streets of Sydney, is a M.A. of Trinity College,
Dublin. Some years back he held a high position
under the Imperial Government in Tasmania,
whore he was universally esteemed by all classes of
the community. He is another of the Drink Fiend’s
victims, which has ruined him physically and
mentally.
Bobby Byrne, of Queensland Figaro, we
now see, has squared his action with Cowlishaw,
of the Brisbane Telegraph, at the last moment,
each side to pay its own costs. This was after
a whole day’s tight, and a jury’s disagreement. It
seemed it never occurred to either party to try and
fix up matters before. Or, perhaps, it never
occurred to the lawyers I
New York Mirror announces that Mr.
C. A. Mendum has signed a contract to “ manage ”
Mrs. Langtry for a two years’ engagement, begin-
ning next Autumn. The programme is—34 weeks
in America, with a specially engaged company,
finishing at ’Frisco. Retaining only the leading
man-happy leading man !—the star comes across
to Australia, w here another troupe is to be engaged,
and plays three months in the various colonies.
Thence to India, next London—claying there four
months, in the commencement of 18&>—and then,
probably, a tour through Europe to St. Peters-
burgh.
Florence Dixie, writing from Zululand,
shows that Cetshwayo is the mildest of pet lambs—
wouldn’t covet his neighbour’s cattle or wives for
“anythink.” It all accounts o’the airs he puts on
ever since he saw the Brighton Aquarium and took
a stroll down Petticoat-lane. A good deal of
credence attaches to what “Flo” says, ever since
those two Irish hodmen (disguised in woman s
clothes, the blackguards) tried to let daylight
through her. The plucky stand she made on that
historical occasion, and the graphic account of it
she subsequently sent to the papers, will not sot n
be forgotten.
Mr. N. P. Bayly, whose recent death while
on his wedding tour has occasioned such wide-
spread regret, was, until he left New York en route
for England, in apparently excellent health. But
he nevertheless seems to have had a vague pre-
sentiment of his end. He was taken ill and became
delirious during the voyage across the Atlantic;
but before reaching Liverpool he had so far rallied
that he was able to walk ashore and proceed to his
hotel without much discomfort. On the night of
landing he suffered a relapse, and ere the morrow’s
sun had set he was dead, despite the attention of
four of the leading doctors of the city, who diago-
nised his malady as inflammation of the brain, but
were altogether unable to assign a cause.
Amongst the fashionable intelligence in
the Moruya paper is a paragraph giving the infor-
mation that Mike Connor, the King of the Moruya
tribe, is at present residing in Bega. Also, that he
and his royal consort honoured with their presence
the corroboree held there a short time ago. In
connection with this event, the poet laureate of
the place presents the nation with this noble
quartrain:—
“ Where they were foremost in the ranks,
Their war cry, * Moruya, Moruya,’ rent the air,
From the Commissioner received thanks,
Were they not a happy pair.’’
This is enough to show what an unenviable thing
it must be to be a monarch—even a monarch of
Moruya.
More mesalliances. A son of the Earl of
Feversham Is said to have married one of the
“sisters Leamar,” of English music-hall celebrity.
This will be heart-breaking news for all new-chums
of tender years. The sisters Leamar, by the bye,
were “ sisters ” only in the “ professional ” sense of
the word. Kate Leamar, who is now left to work
in single harness, is the wife of Bill Bint (good name
that), a former chairman at the Oxford. “ Nellie ”
Leamar, the one who has just joined the ranks of
the aristocracy, will be remembered by m.isic-hall
goers as the smaller of the two girls; and she cer-
tainly was, In the immortal words of one of the
“gods” at the Royal, “rather stiff on her pins.”
The Learners’ most successful song used to be
“ We’ve just escaped from the Harem.” Let us
devoutly pray that Nellie will not attempt to
“escape from the harem” of the Hon. Herbert
Buncombe—her “mash.”
We are curb-us as to whether the 10,000
dollars said to be “ guaranteed ” to Captain Webb
previous to his successful “suicide” at Niagara
Falls, will be handed over to his young widow.
There is a pretty little story in conneetion with
the melancholy “ pilgrimage ” of the ex-Empress
Eugenie to Zuiuland. Previous to setting out, she
received a letter from a lady, who had herself lost
a son in the miserable Zulu campaign, begging ot
her to And out the boy’s grave, and place a tew
flowers upon it. The wish was gratified, and, in
due course, the Empress caused the obscure grave
to be sought out, and a monument to be erected,
she herself placing a wreath above it. A photo-
graph of it was then taken, which she sent, accom-
panied by a kind-hearted letter, to the bereaved
lady. Now, that lady was a Mrs. Chaddock, and
her pretty and accomplished daughter, Madeleine,
became the wife of poor Captain Webb, some year
or so ago.
Jimmy McMahon, who was slapped by
Kyrle Bellew, whom he kicked and had fined 20s.
at Brighton, is one of the brightest looking little
fellows you ever saw. He doesn’t drink at all, and
smokes very little, and his complexion is a beauti-
ful pink and white. He and Mrs. Siddons “ camp
at the Midland Railway Grand Hotel, one of the
finest in the world. When James went away from
these shores he was a mere boy, but a precocious
bov it would seem at that. We can see him now
on the mall boat at parting, restraining Scott-
Siddons in an apparent attempt to dive head first
into the engine-room. It seems a pity that his
Romeo and Juliet business has begun with a row,
but theatrical'ventures always either begin ma
row or end in one. We shall not now. we suppose,
see James in Australia. Another disappointment!
We shall not see the Langtry either in all proba-
bility. Those professionals who say they are
coming hardly ever do, somehow; and those who
vow never to come back nearly always turn up
again with a brand new wife and a lot of American
printing.
Mr. Marwood, the English hangman, is
slowly but surely rising to a position of much
eminence, for his utterances are being recorded in
the public press. He may even in time take the
fallen mantle of Sydney Smith, and be made the
father of all the jokes whose paternity is in doubt.
The next shilling book of wit and humour, col-
lected from various sources,” will contain these
anecdotes: Marwood, the well-known wit and
executioner, was dining one evening with the
Archbishop of Canterbury. “ Don’t you think,
said the Primate, “the practice of strapping your
victims’ arms and legs so tightly is needlessly
cruel?” “Well,” answered Marwood, “thats a
matter of a pinion.” Marwood was once chatting
with the Prince of Wales in the royal enclosure at
Ascot, when the master of the Buck-hounds came
up and told the genial Jack Ketch he had no busi-
ness there. “Oh, yes, I have,” was the ready re-
ply “I’m the Court Nooseraan.” The Prince
laughed heartily, and told Cork to go and be
hanged. “Why is it. Sir Marwood,” said a well-
known duchess, one evening, at a ball at the
Orleans Club, “ that you get all the prettiest girls
for partners ?” “ I don’t know,” said the newly-
made knight, “ unless it is because I’m a great
Ketch.”
A NEW SENSATION.
'there Is a sleepiness abroad;
A languor In the air,
A spell upon the soft warm winds,
And quiet everywhere.
It Is the afternoon—the sun
Seems doling In the sky,
Waking at starts to watch the earth
With his cloud-lidded eye.
Men walk about as in a dream,
Or lie around and smoke;
Trouble seems far-away and vague,
And Care a rare old Joke.
The busiest men for business now
Don’t seem to care a rap;
The dreaming devil smiles In sleep,
And parsons play at “ Nap.”
Dull scribes write laud’num leaders, and
Dull poets opium odes—
We mine ourselves for golden thougnts.
And strike on leaden lodes.
Ennui f Well, slightly; we are bored-
W hat is there we can do ?
We’ve done ’most everything, and now
There’s little left that’s new.
The world is cold—the world is old—
We know no man that lends;
We’ve used up all sensations, and
We’ve used up all our friends.
Drink ? Ach 1 if you could know how we
Did drink when we were young—
Like our forerunner, Keats, who drank
With pepper on his tongue.
Tokay, champagne, and Rhenish wine—
Then we were ** in it,” some —
Ah I what a fall was ours since then
From Rhenish down to rum I
Make love ? We’ve done that, too—too much—
We’ve—well, we’ll tell you flat—
Upon our skull a scar is fresh ;
The missus gave us that.
What is there new that we can do
On this dull afternoon ?
It isn’t new to drink or play,
It isn’t new to spoon I
It isn’t new to fight or swear,
Nor novel to make bets—
Hal hal we have ib-this is new,
We'U go and pay our debts!
MK. W. J. WILSON, OF THE OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY.


The Furniture Column.
REDUCED PRICES I REDUCED PRICES J
REDUCED PRICES!
REVISED HOUSE FURNISHING LISTS,
“ A BULLETIN OR MANIFESTO,”
“A Bulletin or Manifesto,”
Issued to the public of New South Wales, without
penalty. Rights reserved.
Published by Messrs. Campbell Brothers, of the
Royal Furnishing Arcade, 436 George-street,
Sydney, and distributed by them, post free,
throughout the colony of New South Wales.
CONTENTS.
PAGE.
Introduction 1
The Object of the Publication 1
A Word in Season 1
All for the Public Good 1
Clever Management 2
Pictures 2
Bedsteads 3
Industry 2
Our New Lists 3
House Furnishing Lists. .3,5,7, 0,11,13,14, 15,16
A Special Notice 3
Early Rising 4
Our Defences 4
Pumpkins 4
Country Orders, &o., &o 5
Musical Instruments 5
The New Game of Melon 5
No Imported Suites 6
Sketch of our £415s. 6d. Austrian Suite .. 6
Another Consideration 6
Ye Bnglyshe olfe ye Olden Tyrao .. .. 7
Sketch of our Factory, Woolloomooloo Bay 8
False Economy 8
Rats 8
Orders by Post 8
Reduction in Austrian Furniture .. ..9
Our Cutlery Case 9
Cultivation of the Sunflower .10
There is no Accounting for Taste .. .. 10
Furnishing Drapery Department .. .. 10
No Branches U
Sketch of our £1310s Suite 12
Single Rooms 17
Plain Figures 17
Finale 17
Perhaps we cannot do better than begin with
the first list contained in the NEW BOOK, viz.,
the £15 house list, which reads thus
For the sum of £15 prompt net cash,
You can Furnish a House as follows:
PARLOUR.
Dining Table, 4x3
Chelfonier safe
Colonial sofa... .
Four cane-seated chairs
Clock
Table cover ..
Pair vases ...
Lamp
Fender
Matting for room
Hearth slip ...
BEDROOM.
Half-tester bedstead, 4ft 6in
Pair palliasses ...
Mattress
Bolster
Two pillows
Chest of drawers
Washstand and toilet set
Toilet table
Toilet-glass
Chair
Matting slip
KITCHEN.
Pine table
Chair
Six plates
Six plates
Vegetable dish
Meat dishes, Is and Is 9d
Six cups and saucers
Sugar oasin
Milk-Jug .'
Butter dish
Pair salt-cellars
Six tumblers
Six knives and forks
Two table spoons ...
Six tea spoons
Kettle
Boiler .
Saucepans, 3s 3d and 3s
Frying pan
Tea pot
£ s.
d.
14 6
5 0
10 6
0 0
7 8
3 9
3 6
4 6
3 6
6 0
2 0
16 0
12 6
13 6
4 0
3 0
IS 0
13 0
7 6
3 0
2 6
2 0
Galvanized tub
Bucket
Dipper
Baking dish ...
Candlestick ...
Nutmeg grater
Pepper castor
Kitchen spoon
Pair flat-irons
Millet broom
Wash board ..
Scrub brush ...
Pair bellows ..
Dust shovel ...
6
6
6
0
6
9
3
0
0
0
9
2 0
3 0
£15 0 0
Next week the £25 list will appear.
“A BULLETIN OR MANIFESTO,”
Get it, read it, and profit by It.
30,000,
TWENTY THOUSAND,
The First Edition.
POST FREE EVERYWHERE.
Campbell Brothers,
Royal Furnishing Arcade,
42G OBOKCiC STREET, SYDNEY,
,«3uiiHi4A HCi XciU.il '£u-H-OdiUti
NEAT THE ROYAL HOTEL.
lll( ,t one more description of the Langtry.
. wfv who had lived in her company some time
A the eternal old question : Is she as
was ns they say ?” “She is square, somewhat
beaut ™ h afirm Jaw, big- hands and feet. Yet, in
of these, I had not been three days In the
th e with her till I thought she was divinely beau-
houae Heaven has given her only superb health,
tiful- Hea e complexion . All the rest consists in
and nrveHouscare of her person. She is athoroughly
a . m a n looking woman, and seems to be always fresh
ciean-lnoK g H er hair is burnished with the
fr0 *ant care it gets. The moons in her shining
cn i’ia shmv Just arc enough. Her teeth are firm,
n l!lin and white ; and an atmosphere of indescrib-
cl£?UVveshn('s8 always surrounds her. The charac-
at> ? a He of" cr dresses is rich simplicity, and perfect
ter le But that style of simplicity is very expen-
8ive-ycm know.”
Were is a coincidence. One American
* ? oreenleaf Whittier, in his ode to Mrs. H.
vo recited on the 80th anniversary of her
g- ih on the 4th of July last, has in one stanza
written (our italics, of course):
» nh Land of lands I to thee we give
nnrvra i/crs, our hopes, our set'ince free ;
wer thee thy sons shall nobly live,
F And It thy need shall die for thee I”
a d in Longfellow’s “ Building of the Ship ”:
„ our he-rta, our hopes are all with thee,
o r hearts, our hopes, our prayers, our tears.
O r faith triumphant o’er our fears
Are all with thee-are all with thee!
T , takes us to find out these things. We found a
JoSTn an organ once.
W w S Lively was lost through the pilot
too close in shore. He did this in order
peeping her water , s . as to relieve the
t0 ?Sekness of Lord Napier and Ettrick, who was
sea f This is how a home paper cruelly puts
on a T rd e verdict in the Lively affair should really
h : T. -we find that Lord Napier and Ettrick is a
read. v,nd sailor: that he can’t get up and
shockingly h a on hig o-o.ashore-clothes when the
shave, and put on g own in a horrid way among
8h,^ - that the pilot was a man of sympathy
"reat respect for the divinity that doth
who ma gi , ComT ni 8 sioner ; that accordingly
hedKe aCro fit J a d v H.M.S. Lively by temporarily
h f her ol tne Hen and Chickens Hocks to
pla m/bis Lordship to dress in comfort; and that
enft of hlanTe is to be attached to the Board of
£ r ®at and the Master and elder Brethren of the
Sv for not having the jagged points of the
said rocks nicely sawn off.
of Sara Bernhardt’s Fedora, Truth says
..r« the delicate shades of her art, she is alone and
onm-oachable. In the expression of sensuous
unapproacnao o actregg on any sta ge that can com-
love, ther ami Many can portray ‘the
pa Jl and rapture of virtue,’ it is she alone who
r0 f nortrav P the lilies and languor of vice.” It is
2J{*. realistic treatment of sensuality that makes
Bernhardt such a favourite m this feverish
o it is because she can writhe, and flop, and
a ,8®; Tt d * squirm,’ that she finds favour with a
ant to tlop. writhe, sigh, and ‘squirm.’
slra Bernhardt is High Priestess alike with women
Sa . ra smuggle French novels of a questionable
into their bed-rooms, and with men
nvlr-heatcd by wine and good living. She is the
artistic delirium in an age wffien women dose them-
selves with chloral, and men brighten their eyes,
naint their cheeks, and go into rhapsodies oyer the
nf a coat. Her art is as unhealthy as it is real-
fJJo,. W then her patrons are not moral-minded,
thereare so few opportunities for the gratifl-
cationof a public display of uncontrolled passion.”
Maywood, the hangman, has, it seems, a
nleasant wit, which quite puis our “Nosey Bob”
in the shade. We haven't the pleasure of Mr.
TJn1ohn ? 8 acquaintance; but having held a few con-
venations with Mr. Gately (lately dead), whom he
superseded, we are in a position, at once, to give
Mr Marwood the conversational palm. Gately
was a curious creature: huge,,brawny, and half a
beast His face was hideous in the extreme-re-
vnlting in fact -and his conversation nearly
always’unreporteble. On one occasion, we mot
him with Mrs. Gately (they had only been married
the dav before), and the bride was beating him on
Ihe back with a piece of road metal tied up in a
handkerchief, while he, mad drunk, was going for
her wit ha strap. Gately’s periods of liberty were
usually from one to four days’ duration, and
he never, for forty years, exceeded three
weeks He didn’t enjoy his periods of freedom
m?mh anyhow. The sight of him lashed the
Melbourne “talent ” into such a paroxysm of fury
♦ hat hla life when “ out” was a hailstorm of mis-
sfles-a tempest of blows. After 34 hours’ liberty,
he was usually a living witness to the effect of road
metef and whin-cordrand “ noddies.” They would
nd out when his sentence expired, be in wait for
him and hunt him through the city like a wild
east. When he escaped, he would buy rum, hide
■iwnv and drink it; get mad drunk, and charge
through city again, howling and shrieking until
arrested. Then he was awarded, much to his satis-
faction, from six months to two years. That s all
that we know about him. except that he has just
died in Queensland, and that for a good many
rears prior to his death he was not considered even
good enough to be a hangman.
In a long and trenchant letter which ap-
peared in the Cooktown Courier some time
hack Archibald Forbes is charged with the most
po-reo-ions snobbery and arrogance when voyaging
on board the s.s. Wentworth. The debghtful dis-
position of the “ great special is already suffi-
ciently well known. Forbes showed himself en-
tirely incapable of sustaining, with even a sem-
blance of modesty, the distinction he had fairly
won It was his misfortune not to have been born
or bred a gentleman. And equally his misfortune
not to be born and bred a positive “ common man
His origin was from that social bordei-land which is
only describahle by the word genteel. He was
the son of a Scotch “ minister ’—a man of a class
which is indefinable. There are min sters who are
cadets of really “ good county families, and con-
senuently of gentle lineage. But there is a pre-
ratling majority of ministers who belong to two
classes totally different from that to which these
are affiliated. These are the ministers who are sons
of ministers, and ministers who, like many Irish
Homan Catholic priests, are drawn from the pea-
santry It is a common ambition with small
farmers, substantial crofters, and petty tradestnen,
to see a son of theirs in the Kirk. Au d Sandy
Baton aye seeks to see his son Jock wag his pow in
a pu’piL Both these classes of Scotch clerics are
distinctly plebeian, alike in extraction and in breed-
ing. Archibald Forbes was bred in a manse, and in
bis case as in so many others, that meant practically
that he was underbred. He was m ins P r °P®j'
sphere as a corporal or sergeant in his dragoon
regiment. Or, had he taken to civil pursuits, a
desk in a merchant’s office would have been ap-
propriate to hira—or if, he were lucky, he might
nave been a selector in Maonland, an overseer in
an Indian tea garden, or a cashier in a bank In
Hong Kong. There are lots of his kidney and of
his social pretensions scattered '
colony. They are own cousins to Captain Uugald
Dalgetty, and like that valiant mercenary, have
had a classical education, and so are able to put
some face upon their claims to be regarded as
“gentlemen in -he colonies. But this is not
what we started to write about. The author of
the Cooktown letter is indignant at Archie for
denouncing land-grant railways and syndicates
generally, and referring to Archie s denunciation
of American railway monopolists, asks: Can Mr.
Forbes deny that the names of Crocker and be land
Stanford, as representatives ot the Central Pacific
Railway, are revered throughout as
the genuine promoters ot‘ every movement having
in view the commercial welfare and advancement
of the States ?” We don’t know what Mr. Forbes
would be prepared to reply to this challenge, but
we have a straight answer to it, partly in our
pocket a- d partly in our head. We will take the
pocket first, as pockets are more considered here
than are heads. We pull out a letter received last
mail from San Francisco, in which a correspondent
thus speaks to us of the revered Crockers and Htan-
fords, and it is to be observed that he speaks as
one who dissents from the popular voice:— lam
sorry to tell you that the Art building which I
spoke to you about, is not going to be built. 1 he
politicians have been hounding the railroad people
so much, that they are disgusted, and that
was one of the prime causes that they decided
not to provide the buildings.” To this we
may add what we have in our head —in-
formation acquired on the spot. The railway
magnates of California are the best hated men in
the State. It is true that their wealth has been
placed at the service of the community with a
wise liberality and discretion, as regards the form
of investment. The city of San Francisco is re-
plete with instances of their sagacious generosity
in meeting the wishes of the citizens They have
erected splendid buildings for the different asso-
ciations. The fine apartments of the famous
Bohemian Club were provided by the railway
men. The Olympic Club, recently burnt down,
was similarly supplied with quarters ; the gymna-
sium not excelled by any similar place
anywhere in the world. The Art Society is
under the same roof as the Bohemian Club,
and has been liberally helped along by the railway
men. Any body of citizens could get a building
put up to suit them, if they showed that they could
pay rent But they always have to pay rent. And
nothing has induced the people generally to lose
sight of the fact that the wealth thus loaned to
them is their own wealth previously squeezed from
them. They don’t, and can’t, forget that they hav«
been, and are, mercilessly squeezed by these same
railway men, by means of their monopoly of the
communication with the Eastern States. The
freights and fares on the Union Pacino and
Southern Pacific are something crushing as com-
pared with the rates prevailing further Bast, where
there is competition. Trade is handicapped, and
California almost cut off from the Union, by the
enormous charges and indifferent freight service
of these monopolist-owned railways. The com-
munity, as a whole, is in revolt against the revered
Stanfords and Crockers, and that’s just the truth
of the matter; and it is mainly the facts which we
have stated which have converted us from be-
lievers in Sir Thomas M’llwraith’s land-grant trans-
continental railway scheme to sceptics regard-
ing it.
Our dear old friend Peter Campbell— we
have known him for over ten years—had a pleasant
custom, whenever he was in Sydney, of coining to
our office demanding apologies and threatening
actions for libel He never got any apologies, but
he used to get enough chaff to keep ins mokes m
fin© condition all through his travels in the
interior. Long ago we heard of Peter's unassum-
ing doings in the Warrego and Maranoa districts
in Queensland, and we well remember when he
bought an allotment oC land at Tambo for his
mission purposes, and on the strength of his invest-
ment induced a lot of shearers and others to sub-
scribe funds for the erection of a mission chapel to
be placed on the land. When the funds were
collected, however, it occurred to Peter that
perhaps it would be more to the glory, &c., if he
erected a manse in the first instance, and accord-
ingly a very neat little cottage was built, and let
for 8s. per week. At this point the spirit moved
Peter to carry his work of grace to other districts;
but he returned to Tambo the other day, and pre-
senting himself at the hostelry of the very man
who had been chiefly instrumental in helping
forward the collection for the chapel that was to
be, re-introduced himself and apprised him that he
proposed to honour his pub. with h s presence
and his coffee-room with his prayers. But the host
proved a man of Belial on this occasion. He
repudiated the overtures of the reverend gentle-
man, and told him to go to well, to a place where
bush missionaries would only reluctantly go
when they die. So Peter shook the black
soil off his feet, and tarried not, but went
his way, even to Blackall, wore verily he
abode for three weeks. Peter has a bit of laud
at Blackall, also, and divided his attention between
preaching the gospel and advertising the forth-
coming sale, by auction, of his land. Somehow,
the enemy of souls had hardened the hearts of the
Blackall people, and although Peter on the first
Sunday magnanimously attended the Anglican
Church in the Public Hall, as he did not desire to
take the people away, the committee unanimously
refused to let him have their hall for the Sunday
following. Out of a committee of 15, not one was
in favour of letting this good kind missionary have
the use of their praying shop. They pretended
that their own parson was quite as expert at sav-
ing sov. is as Peter could be. And Peter was wroth,
and wrote a lonv letter full of—charity, to the local
paper. And, although the said paper had a cash
ad. of Peter’s about the sale of his land, the
editor was a man of sin. and “chiaked” the mis-
sionary, and wouldn’t even insert the pars, which
the missionary wrote about his own virtues and
noble qualities, although no person could have
been more competent to deal with the topic. And
Peter was exceeding wroth, and gave his lecture
in the Court-house ; and behold if that confounded
editor didn’t report it in a Philistine spirit, and
said “ The oration fairly bristled, gushed, and
boiled over with racy, droll, quaint, and pungent
sayings, stories, puns, and anecdotes. The lecturer
is a genial humorist, with high natural spirits,
whose spontaneous, dramatic, and elocutionary
style, give piquance, point, and interest to almost
every sentence he utters. His audience was tho-
roughly in sympathy with him for ninety minutes,
during which time they fairly simmered with mer-
riment, which occasionally broke out into loud,
hearty, and prolonged laughter. Notwithstanding
this, there was introduced into the lecture a vast
amount of good advice, instructive matters, wise
saws, and modern instances. Some choice and
original poetical fragments recited by the lec-
turer formed pleasing varieties in the programme.”
But, before so saying, the scoffer hinted only too
plainly that Peter had handed in that report him-
self. And the editor did further say:—“Now,
other people inform us that the lecture was
dreary, childish, and not worth listening to. That
if the audience laughed, they laughed at the lec-
turer, and not at the lecture. That the discourse
had a great deal to do with the doubtful joys of
unequal marriages, and earnest exhortations to
the young raeri present to'ftttdn'd the auction sale
of the lecturer’s allotments in the ensuing week.
But this may be mere scandal. Anyhow, the lec-
turer cleared £3 Is. by the sale of tickets, and
adding £1 19s. to this as a private donation, he
handed it over to the treasurer of the local hos-
pital. ‘ Charity covereth a multitude of sins.
Within two hours after the issue of the paper, the
man of God called round to find his adversary,
intent upon forgiving him, and carrying with him
a whip wherewith to forgive him the more effec-
tually. But the wicked editor, being weary of
evil-doing, had gone home, and the staff, being
exhausted with toll, having wrought at the handle
of the patent mangle wherein the newspaper is
weekly machined, hearing Peter’s voice, conceived
that the stud-jackass from Mitchell Downs had
broken loose and was on the rampage. Wherefore
the staff crept silently into the glue-and-treaole
cask, and so escaped for the present, but had after-
wards to be carefully melted out. His enemies
having thus escaped out of his hand, Peter indited
to them a letter wherein he declared that r.y sour-
rilous, malicious, and libellous innuendoes his
character had been injured, he had been shunned
by reputable people, his sale of property (one
acre divided into sixteen allotments) had been a
failure, and, in short, Peter wanted an apology
under penalty of an action for £1000. But the
editor, not being in N. 8. Wales, smiled, and re-
marked that Peter might be blowed. And Peter
declined to be blowed, but relented somewhat, and
professed himself willing to accept £200 cash and
an apology, as his character had been blasted.
And the editor's heart was hardened, and he lis-
tened not to the voice of Peter, who vowed he
would import a plant and staff from Melbourne
and ker-ush the W. Champion with an able op-
f osition. And at last advices, Peter had started
or Rockhampton, to see what he could do about
his blasted character.
* * •
George H. Kent, who recently died at
Brighton, in his seventy-fourth year, began life In
1820 on the Morning Post, was associated with
Charles Dickons on the Morning Chronicle and
sub-edited the Sunday Times in the days of John
Kemble Chapman. He reported the first Uni-
versity Boat Race and Henley Regatta Mrs.
Meynell means to try to fathom “ The Mystery of
Edwin Drood ” in a forthcoming number of the
Century. Mrs. Meynell is better equipped than
some of her predecessors, for the long and intimate
friendship of her father with Charles Dickens has
put her into possession of trustworthy informa-
tion ; and her solution of the problem will be
borne out by illustrations, sketched by Mr. Elides,
A.R.A., for the latter Instalments of the story,
which, in consequence of the author’s death, were
never published ‘‘The daughter of an earl,”
writes a London paper, “stopped dancing with the
Prince of Wales, and openly refused to go on, be-
cause he was holding her too closely, and other-
wise misbehaving himself in a large ball-room. She
left him in the middle of the floor, and asked an
acquaintance to take her to her mother.” The
Countess of Shrewsbury recently presented her-
self in public, at some races, on the top of
her young husband’s coach. Her former hus-
band, Mr. Mundy, has just married again
Captain Webb, who died in trying to win a £3000
wager by shooting Niagara rapids, recalls an anec-
do.e of the Czar Nicholas, who, one morning, saw
an excited crowd on the bank of the Neva, and
sent an officer to And out the cause. He learned
that a man had just won about twelve shillings
by a wager that he could run across the river on
the ice, which was then in that treacherous, half-
liquid state caused by the commencement of the
thaw. Nicholas had him arrested and flogged with
a hundred stripes: “for,” said the Czar, ‘a man
who will risk his life for such a sura is capable of
committing any act of baseness for a similar con-
sideration. .. .. Mrs. Cashel Hoey is writing a book
on New Guinea.... Oscar Wilde lectured lately, by
invitation, to a lot of “young brushes” of the
Royal Academy. It is discrlbed as a sermon of
subtle conceits, something epigrammatic, often
humorous, and its brilliantly eccentric philosophy
vastly delighted the students... .Ouida is seriously
ill at Florence. . In sending six guineas towards a
statue to Louis lilanc, Swinburne stated that the
money was the price of th reo sonnets. He recoived
exactly three shillings a line for the sonnets.
The dissipated actor wears “ tights” on
his nose.
The achievement that gave to the world
Wolfe’s Schnapps, will live in the history of
curative science as long as the human frame is
subject to natural diseases.
Poor old Samuel Lambert of Mooroopna,
about a railway day from Melbourne, has been
audited and found wanting. Ah! Samuel was
agent for no end of companies, and as he sat
in his little office on the left hand side of the
street, he would explain in the most pleasant way
how your sorrowing widow could raise money on
her bare word that you had gone in a hearse, or if
you liked he would toll you where you could get
the last odds on the next Cup, or, stall if you liked,
he would write you down as a lumbago patient,
and give you a ticket for the local hospital. And
all he did, he did smiling. But Jack M'Kinney and
West, of the Toolamba Telegraph, have found
that he smiled the Hospital out of £164 4s., during
the last year. So Samuel’s face is straight, and he
pleads that he has a big family and a little income.
Although as Hospital sec. he drew 35s. weekly, 22s.
6d. had to go for horse-feed, and Samuel says there
was a similar rebate on all his heads of income.
There’s not a doubt of it. Wo know what appoint-
ments in that quarter are, and we know that the
set-offs against the liberal salaries are stupendous
The grog alone that you must give away to patrons
and committeemen eats the billet down to the
socks Almost every man in the township who is
not a storekeeper, is a publican, and the small re-
mainder is expected to “ part ” in a lively-way.
SamlVel.dibue you will slldder out, if it were only
for your old pleasant smile!
Arabs:—“ Here’s a pretty go—Can’t stoop to pick up ’is ’at.”


VIRTUTIS GLORIA MERGES.'
COALCLIFF COAL.
s NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY supplies the CHEAPEST, CLEANEST, and
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony,
£1 per Ton net, delivered within city bounds.
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and bars kept well free from ash, makes a stronger,
more lasting, and cleaner Are that any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky flare and soot of
Newcastle coal, nor does it splinter and fly off like the Western, but It affords that domestic desideratum
of some kinds of English coal of heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a
charcoal or breeze fire, while it imparts to the steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwhole-
some fumes given off by a breeze or gas fire.
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
Office: A. B. BLACK, 24T George Street.
|y DEPOT : WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
THE BUGGIES OF THE PERIOD.
Unequalled for Durability and Elegance.
WAGGONETTES & EXPRESS WAGGONS
FIRST-CLASS WORK ONLY IMPORTED.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 & 24 C/arence-st,
SYDNEY.
y
TJ
s
s
W
&
Q
©
o
o
o
c?
k
*7
wifi** -
Aor
P' BROOK*
7S SIX-CORD
SOFT COTTON
ON
NEW SHOULDER REEL.
’ VERY CAREFULLY MADE
FOB
HAND & MACHINE SEWING,
* White, Black & all Colours
BROOK’S PATENT
glaceT THREAD
NEW SHOULDER REEL.
A
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE, ADEL AIDE,RRISB ANE, andDUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO., LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
Principal Agencies :
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON-Head Office : HONGKONG.
J. C. Goatling and Company (Limited)—Portland Cement. ,
..a v ertto a **«*,
Crosslev celebrated “Otto " Silent Gas Engines.
Bow, M‘Lachlan and Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &c., &c.
Thos. Glover and Company, London—Patent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian and Sons—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penyrorsedd Slate Company (Limitcd)-Bangor Slates.
rm.. Uininnt Cmnnonv SiUI PrflTlfilBfiO QUICKSllVGr.
X GIB illvuinuiiiij ) *- m. „
ThnK Bell and Co. —English Hams, Bacon, Sc., sc. „
Red Cross Preserving Company, Victoria—Jams, J'allies, & B(
De Wendel and Company, Hayange, France—Bar, Rod, and Sheet iron, B<
Clnnl Fnnninfr W1 StC*
Boiler Plates, Iron and
Steel Fencing Wire, Sc.
Thos. Perry and Son, Bilston—Fire-resisting Safes.
Drybrough and Co., Edinburgh—Ale.
Brunton and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse.
Thos. N. Hunt—Port Wine. „
Dubos Fibres, Bordeaux —Clarets, Chahlis, Sauternes
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES. _ . _
NEW SOUTH WALES.-Soott and Mullaly, T. Allsop, F. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros.,
J Victoria.— James Fry and Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson. TT . , „
South Australia.— W. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hmcks.
jpas- INDENTS executed, ou the most favourable terms, from all parts of the world. Consignments
of produce received for shipment to London, under liberal advances.
TO PROFESSIONAL TROUPES.
NOW open for engagement at NYNQp.w _
Railway Station, the hear
“ ASSEMBLY ROOMS,”
a large and well-appointed HALL. Apply t 0
HEARD & M’KENNA, Agents
M
A S O N I C
B A L
The LODGE of ST. ANDREW, No as*
SCOTCH CONSTITUTION,
will celebrate its THIRTY-THIRD ANNTWr,
SAKY with a BALL (Evening Dress/'
on THURSDAY, September 13th.
in the TOWN HALL VESTIBULE/’
Compagnoni will cater.
Tickots-25s, 17s 6d, and 10s.
ANNOUNCEMENT.
An evening dress Cinderella PAn-mr
will be given by Mrs. COLBORNE PlUswu
to her Pupils and Friends, in Mr. READ'S Honu
64 Royal Arcade, on THURSDAY, 30th August’
Music, Singing, and Dancing.
E. ROWLANDS
(Late Rowlands and Lewis),
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, & SYDNEY,
Manufacturer of
Utl Waters I Mi
E,
ROWLANDS begs to inform the inhabitants
, of Sydney and the Colony of New South
Wales generally that, in consequence of a rapidly,
increasing trade with this colony, he has found it
absolutely necessary to
ESTABLISH A DEPOT IN SYDNEY,
to enable him to be in a position to supply big
customers with the
CELEBRATED BALLARAT SODA WATER,
GINGER ALE, TONIC, SELTZER,
LEMONADE, &0., CORDIALS, AND VIQQIIINE
31 and 33 Hunter-street.
TRY THE
Vicioria Furniture FoM!
ONCE TRIED WILL BE USED ALWAYS.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
o
02
W
THE “GREAT BONANZA” CLUB CONSUL-
TATION
on the
MELBOURNE CUP, 1883,
To be run about the end of October.
Capital £7500. Divided into 150,000 Shares at Is
each. 500 Prizes Guaranteed.
To be distributed as follows
First Horse .. .. £1000 | 10 Prizes of £100, £1000
Second Horse .. 500
Third Horse.. .. 350
Starters divide .. 500
Non-starters divide 250
£50, £1000
£25, £1000
£10, £1000
£5, £1000
.. £7500
21 Tickets for £1.
any single address.
20 Prizes of
40 Prizes of
100 Prizes of
200 Prizes of
Total
Not less than 5 Tickets sent to
Send P.O. Order or Rank
Notes. If coin be enclosed, please register letter.
If Stamps are sent, add exchange at the rate Is in
the £1. Exchange should also be added to cheques.
Please enclose 3d extra for Membership Fee. No
charge for replv or result. Drawing will positively
take place on or before the 25th October, and will
be conducted by a Committee of Shareholders.
Tickets promptly sent by return post, and results
posted immediately after drawing. Prospectuses
forwarded. Enclose an addressed envelope un-
stamped. , , „
Address: “Bonanza, care of J. Thomas, 30
Swanston-street, Melbourne.
Racing Sweeps.
Those of the sporting community who are of a
speculative disposition are to be congratulated
upon the facilities afforded them tor participating
in a bond fide Consultation.
A few facts in connection with the Great
Bonanza” Club will be found interestingWithin
the past two years this club has received and dis-
bursed upwards of £17,000. The books of the club
show the number of its clients to be 26,848, and
the number of persons who succeeded in drawing
horses and prizes exceeds 3000. ..
In a business of such magnitude, extending as ii
does over the whole of the Australasian colonies
and portions of India and Fiji, the success ot tne
enterprise depends to some extent upon the sate
transmission of its letters. It is worthy of . n °ln
as a statistical fact, that there are to be seen in tnc
club's offices, in Melbourne, a stack < f used letters
reaching from floor to ceiling, numbering m t ne
aggregate between 30 and 40 thousand. ,
The club has also about 100 letters containing
tickets on various events which had never reacneu
their destination, but had been returned from tn
Dead Letter Office unclaimed. Some ot tne-
tickets drew valuable prizes. The club has aoou
30 letters from persons who positively state in
they forwarded money for tickets but got no rep )■
Their money, it forwarded, had never been i
ceived by the club. . , fnr
Out of over 3000 letters containing cheques i
successful clients the club is proud to sa y,J,
only two miscarried; even these, after somenew. ■
were paid in full, although the parties tor w n
they wore drawn made complaints in some oi
to anyone who can prove that the club
single penny to any person who holds, or mis u <
a winning number in its consultations. „ R _
The public are hereby Informed that the
anza” Club holds the sum of £672 public mo
unclaimed. This amount represents a uunuR.
prizes which have never been applied loi- * .
promoters now announce that the above am " ;
will bo forfeited if not claimed before the e
the present year. Should there be a surplus
in hand, it will bo added to the prizes in
Year’s programme.
Cr
A I E T y
THEATRE
Lessee Herb Bandmann.
THIS THURSDAY EVENING, AUGUST 30,
Positively the last night but one of Herr Band-
mann's version of D’Ennery’s great moral and
religious drama,
THE WOMAN OF THE PEOPLE,
Pronounced by the press, pulpit, and puhhc the
greatest reforming play of the age. 60,000 have
witnessed this moral production.
TO-MORROW, FRIDAY, August 31st, COMPLI-
MENTARY BENEFIT, tendered by the manage-
ment to that charming and talented young artiste,
MISS LOUISE BEAUDET, under the patronage
of His Excellency the GOVERNOR, G.C.M.G., and
Lady LOFTUS.
SATURDAY EVENING. September 1st,
will be produced, on a scale of magnificence never
excelled in Sydney, the new version of
RIP VAtf WINKLE !
HERR BANDMANN (for the first time) as KIP.
New and magnificent scenery by Setnght; gor-
geous costumes by Madame Croucher ; mechanical
effects by Mr. Poole and assistants ; Properties by
Mr. James Burn. Everythin# entirely new for this
great and grand production.
THE FEAST OF LANTERNS !
THE CATSKILL MOUNTAINS !
A thoroughly well-trained and efficient
BALLET and CHORUS.
Between the acts, Tea, from the famous estab-
lishment of Quong Tart and Co., will be served
to the Ladies.
Read what the Rev. Mr. Garnsey said.
Box Office at Paling's and Gaiety Theatre, where
seats can be booked daily.
The Furniture supplied by W. Hamilton and Co.,
Globe AVarehouse, Park and Castlercagh streets.
Admission — Orchestra Chairs (reserved), at
Paling’s, 4s ; Stalls, 3s ; Circle, Family Circle, 2s ;
ENLARGED PIT, Is. „ „ ,
To the residents of the surroundings of Sydney.—
The performance at the Gaiety Theatre closes
punctually at 10.20, in time to be homo before
midnight.
Country people, beware of surreptitious copies,
stolen,of Herr Bandmann’s plays, and performed
by itinerant professional tramps.
O
E R
OUSE
Lessee, W. J. Wilson. Sub-Lessee, A. T. Dunning.
Stage Manager, T. B. Appleby.
Treasurer, J. F. Goldsworthy.
A GIGANTIC TRIUMPH !
BLUE BEARD ! BLUE BEARD 1
THIS EVENING,
KNIGHT ASTON in his celebrated character of
BLUEBEARD,
T. B. APPLEBY as KING BOBECHE,
T. H. RAINFORD (specially engaged) as
POPOLAIN,
and the
LONDON COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
GRAND BAND AND CHORUS OF SIXTY.
Admission—Dress Circle, 5s.; Stalls, 3s.; Pit, 2s.
Box plan at Huenerbien’s Music Warehouse, 411
George-street, where seats may be secured for any
date in advance. Day tickets obtained at
Stone’s, tobacconist, next Theatre.
Secretary to A, T. Dunning, A. N. Hallifax.
THEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner. & Musgroyk.
11th WEEK, and Last Week but one of
MISS JENNIE LEE,
and
Mr. J. P. BURNETT.
THIS EVENING,
Tom Taylor's great Moral and Emotional Drama,
THE TICKBT-OF-LEAVE MAN,
in which Miss Jennie Lee will appear as Sam
Willoughby.
EDUCATIONAL.
MISS LYDIA HASTINGS instructs in VOICE
BUILDING, ELOCUTION, PUBLIC and
PARLOUR READINGS. Class at SYDNEY
SCHOOL OP ARTS, Friday, 4 p.m.; and at
SYDNEY ARCADE, Room a5, Wednesday, 8 p.m.
(Ladies and Gentlemen). Visitors invited.
Private Lessons, for Ladies or Gentlemen,
64 HUNTER STREET, opposite Elizabeth-street.
Terms for Schools or Clubs on application.
V
ICTORIA HALL,
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Lessee
Mr. F. E. HISCOCKS.
The most Elegant, Fashionable, and Popular
Place of Amusement In Australia, well adapted
for any first-class entertainments. The Lessee open
to Rent or otherwise. Apply
WM. MARSHALL,
Lorgnette Office, Melbourne.
THOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR OF THE
ZULU WAR.
Theatre Royal, Rockhampton, July 9th to 31st.
Bundaberg, Maryborough, and Gympie.
Brisbane to follow, 9th September, with
NEW DIORAMA
OF
EGYPTIAN WAR!
W. H. THOMPSON, Proprietor.
SYL. RYAN, Agent.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
TO LET for the Christmas Holidays, and after.
Terms on application to Tnos. Setright,
care of Blvy and Co., 339 George-street, Sydney ;
or the undersigned,
JAMES B. HICKIE,
Brisbane.
AYALA a
A
urnwpnAUTY />
kmmi
■WILtfD*
sr
mi
n.
I
V
“ I’m out of form. Can’t keep up to work.”
“ Oh, if that’s all, old man, I’ll have you as brisk as a
cricket in a jiffy. Here, Waiter! large bottle of
Ayala’s White Label. This is a wine one can’t get
everywhere; and if it doesn’t set you up, Frank, I’ll
give you a new hat.”
mm Phillips - a co„
AGENTS.
BRIDGE-STREET CHAMBERS.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
-theatre Royal, “Ticket-of-Leave-Man” P-10.
opera House, “ Blue Beard,” etc......... . . ib.
Gaiety Theatre— “Woman of the People . ib.
In many rhymes, sirs, we have written,
Many rhymes;
Rhymes as playful as a kitten,
Many times.
Many reams of rhymes, sirs, solely,
‘Many reams;
Many themes we’ve played out wholly—
Many themes.
Notions new and notions staged,
Long ago;
Jokes both juvenile and aged.
Smart and slow.
Jokes about the poor profession—
Ah, too bad I
Jokes made when—a true confession—
We were mad.
Ghosts, and graves, and godless revels,
Heaps of “fakes;”
Hum, reporters, and blue devils—
Also snakes.
But there’s one—and it’s a true one—
That we deem
When you’ve heard will—it’s a new one—
Make you scream.
It’s we’ve ta’en the pledge—no blowing—
Don’t you think
It’s funny ? Thanks ; and now we’re going
For a drink.
The Commercial Dramatic Club had its
first innings on Friday night at the Academy of
Music. The plunder was to push along the drapers’
early closing movement. As an “ opening address”
was advertised, the house was only three parts full.
There was a lot of suppressed enthusiasm when a
tall fair gentleman—evidently in the trade—came
to the “fore” and told us there was to be no
“address.” He gave some cause which we have
forgotten, but this does not worry us much. Tom
Taylor’s “Retribution” was the centrepiece. It
is called a “ Four-act Domestic Drama.” When it
is whittled down to two, and the second omitted, it
will be worth hearing. Why pieces like this, “ The
Stranger," “ East Lynne” et hoc genus, &c., keep the
stage is a mystery as hard to discover as the North
Pole. To apply to amateurs the canons of criticism
by which “pros.” are judged, would be unfair.
There was a villain In the piece—a murderous,
truculent, raw head and bloody bones fellow
whose cruel speeches called up old associations. Our
thoughts dwelt on the “long ago.” Again we
stood inside M. Richardson’s canvas, and trembled
at the fierce bandit, with black greasy hair, large
and treacherous boots, and oh ! such a broad
meat-knife sword, as he pursued the trembling
maid, flying from his foul embrace, and smiled
horribly when some one at the back demanded
that he be “ Tt on the ’ed with a brick.” He was
an Italian “bravo,” and no doubt had a stiletto as
long as a reaping-hook concealed about his person.
His frown was terrible, but it was when he smiled
that one felt most uncomfortable and longed for
the fresh air. Of the others, there is little to be said.
Their parts were, on the whole, performed credit-
ably—want of facial expression and doubtful
French pronunciation being the chief draw-backs.
Frenchmen do not say “ tete-a -tag” “nor awe
rovoir.”
* * * *
They say that Byron means bankruptcy
and Shakespeare ruin, while opera bouffe moans a
water-side villa with a luring pagoda in the garden
to smoke in. We don’t know much about that
matter, but this wo do know. Whenever a lady of
our acquaintance leaves opera bouffe and takes to
Shakespeare we don’t somehow see as much of her
as formerly. Very demure, this.
* * * *
He can come the cat in the coal-hole
(He’ll give you auricular proof).
He can come the cow in the mole : hole,
Ho can come the rat on the roof;
He can do the rhinocerus nimbly,
Can give you the blow-fly in love;
Ho can do you the mule up the chirabley,
He can coo you like any young dove!
With the cow, and the cat, and the rhlnooerous,
The blow-fly, the mule, and some more,
’Twill appear to you all, as it seems to strike us,
His is a large and chaste “ reportore
An extensive and chaste “ repertore.”
• • •
The talented artiste who has inspired the
above brilliant poetic flight is none other than Mr.
Fred. W. Millis, who opened in his entertainment,
“The Wedding Breakfast,” on Saturday night, at
the Academy of Music. Mr. Millis is a very young
gentleman, of a mien suggestive of much mash-
ing, who makes his appearance inside an elaborate
dress suit, and is of diamond studs resplendent,
has a manner which is winning unto witchery, and
possesses a watchchain which demonstrates that
in him is developed a taste in jewellery beyond
his years. For ho is very young. So young, in-
deed, that when he first showed up a whimsical
idea occurred to us that he seemed to bo playing,
for the nonce, David Copperfleld to a house full of
Littimers. But no sooner had he commenced than
it became apparent that what he lacked in the
“ baldhead ” department he more than made up in
confidence. The audience took to him directly—
especially the fair sex ; and the laughter was up-
roarious all thri ugh. The noble hall; was fuller
than ever we have seen the noble hall before, but
it was not fuller—the chairs being so close together
—than we were full of the noble ’all by the time
we departed. Nearly all the time wo had the knees
of an illustrious theatrical agent pressed against
the “ lumbago plot,” while, whenever the lady in
front leaned her head back to laugh, she butted her
hair-knob right into the ten-guinea set. Oh, and
while on the subject of the house, we may say that,
perhaps, a portion of the audience was attracted
by “ a grand distribution of elegant and valuable
gifts,” liberally advertised. And in respect to
these gifts we may whisper that on our arrival we
saw, drawn up, near the noble hall, a dray. We
knew, at once, the illustrious scribe to whom the
dray belonged, so we resolved—the Austrian suite
giving the “three-roomer” but a bare appear-
ance—to have a cut in for the elegant suite our-
sslves. So we went for a dray, too. And who got
that furniture shall never be known. But we don’t
think he did. The boys might give us a chance,
anyhow. They have all got pianos, and tea-trays,
coffee-sets without number, and quite a pantech-
nicon of native furniture. They are fitted up.
while we have only just begun to furnish, and all
we have, as yet, is three Vienna “cane-ones” and
a butter-cooler.
• • •
Frederick’s entertainment is in two parts,
which are—to let you into a secret— the first part
and the second part. The first is the Maccabe
business, in which he represents a young lady, a
scapegrace, an Irishman, and a henpecked husband
(with baby). The most successful of these was the
song whlcb Glover introduced here—“You grow
more like your dad every day;” that went for a
lot. One which didn’t—so far as the actual song
went—go for anything was “ Come and mind the
baby, John.” That is a very dull ditty, indeed, and
Millis ought to cut it out. It was, a-hem, written
by the author of this par. The only way the
author consoled himself for the cool reception
alforded his tyric was in the reflection that being
very young, Millis, in all reasonable probability,
had never had a baby, and consequently could not
sing it with “the feelings of a father.”
* * ♦
In the ventriloquism, Millis shone exces-
sively; and there can be no doubt whatever that
he can give Val Vose, Maccabe, and even Aintit-
lovelyteddy, ton in fifty, and beat them. He
works with live figures, and the result is a sur-
prisingly clever performance. Millis is only a
“kid,” as wo have said, and while, even in years to
come, ho will find it difficult to improve on his
ventriloquism, his protean business is bound,
should he work hard, to get nearer the droll as ho
gets nearer the grave.
* * *
The show is managed by Mr. Leopold
Jordan, a dramatic author from London, who
authorises us to'say that, ns soon as he shall have
taken delivery of his heavy cases by the Pathan,
he will be in a position to supply managers with
dramas, burlesques, comedies, and tragedies, by
weight or measurement, or in small parcels to suit
customers.
* * * *
Fred.-Hiscocks, who has just done a 20-
weeks’ season in Melbourne, at the “ Vic.,” opens
next Saturday with his “ Federal Minstrels.” This
is a good crowd. And it takes a good crowd to get
them to the York-streot Temple. By the way,
Harry W. Emmet has Joined the Foderals, and is
billed as “actor ” (hem !), “author” (hah !), and
, “interlocutor” (whoop !). No more. But, then,
| Harry was always a modest young man.
* * * *
So they ran “The Grasshopper” another
week at the Royal, notwithstanding that Jim
Rainford had been specially engaged for Bob, and
the town was on the tip-toe of expectation. There
is a legend at the Cambridge Club that so wrapped
up is Jim in the part, that he never studies unless
arrayed in full fig, before his shaving-glass, which
he bribes a lodger with alcohol to now and anon
take down off the peg in order that he may contem-
plate the dramatic eftectof his boots. While carv-
ing the roast and boiled too, at dinner, he converses
entirely in the Lancashire dialect, to the confusion
of the boarders. Last Tuesday night, however,
this energetic rehearsing proved rather expensive.
Happening to bo in the dining-room, and seeing no
one there, James began—“ ’Arve goot soom brass.
Coom!—let’s ’arve a bottle o’ oham.” And in a
moment he had an audience like that of a newly-
made Minister after a general election. Mr. J. 1 .
Burnett, thank Heaven! is to play Hawkshaw,
another Bucket-ful of the “D.” business. Wo ve
yet something to live for!
* * * *
The Polks in “An Arabian Night ” at the
Opera House, on Saturday week, with Mr. Sara.
Genese as manager. Sam’s llrat appearance in this
capacity with the P.’s is an interesting chapter in
the history of the drama. We might almost call it
a chapter of Geneses.
* * * *
“ Here's yohr goot healdths and your
vamily's goot healdths, and may dey all live long
and brosper.” That’s what Bandmann will be say-
ing on that fatal night of Saturday when
every theatre will have something new, and he
follows suit with “ Rip Van Winkle.” The Herr
says it’s his first appearance in that character on
any stage, so we are more than usually anxious to
see what his reading will be. With the “Woman
of the People ” ho has made more money in the
theatre than has been made—or we had better say
lost—in it for the previous six months. Beaudet
has had ’em all, from the man who was grateful at
having to be taken to the Infirmary, to the C.M.G.
in full regalia. She must want a rest. And, while
on the subject of this piece, we may remark that
they have been playing it in Goulburn with Harry
Flynn as “ and “ Mario Wilton ” in the part
of the much-annoyed Marie. Added to this, on
Monday. 3rd September—hold your breaths !—the
Helen Vivian Premier Dramatic Company open in
the same ill-used “ Woman of the People" at New-
castle. Arthur is in it, and Frank Meredith, and
some others of the professional “push” as yet
comparatively unknown to glory. Thov are going
to work overland to Brisbane—or as far overland
as they can get—and pepper an unoffending public
with “East Lynne.’ 1 “The Marble Heart, and
“ Formosa.” Mr. Vivian (who is a fond husband)
considers that Helen will make a hit as Mario. It
not, the public might make a hit And to close up
this slip—there is an editorial dislike hero to a waste
of paper—let us tell you that Harry Richardson,
the entrepreneur, has imported the smallest dwarf
in the world. Ho is social and musical, and
rejoices in the unaffected appellation of Field-
Marshal Commandor-in-Chief O’Doherty. Harry
says that he lives in the kettle drum, and that his
food consists of half a sardine daily with a water.
* * » *
In our issue of the 16th June, it was stated
that Mr. Tyrell, actor, had run away with a ser-
vant girl from the Camperdown Inn (Vic.), and
married her. We are informed that the statement
is without foundation, as Mr. Tyrell was at the
time a married man, with a family in New Zealand,
and wo regret exceedingly having given publicity
to an incorrect account of the affair.
* * * *
Mr. Appleby wrote us a funny letter prior
to his “ben.,” and in it he said; “I fear to write
to you seriously.” And yet, if ho know all the
pink notes blotted with tears of gratitude (antici-
patory) we get, he would have blotted his epistle,
If not with tears, at any rate with a colander. And
the word “Colander” reminds us—we don’t know
why—somehow, of James South, Esq., low come-
dian, who, with the lovely Edith P„ has been giv-
ing the Forbes people a treat. We trust that none
of the ladies were so irreverent as to try and mash
Holy Henry Harrie Cooke when he attended in
his capacity of a captious and majestic critic. And
a good man brings us at once to a “religious”
song, which is enormously popular in London. It
is called “The Parson and the Clerk,” and is
funnily sung by young Millis in his entertainment
at the Academy of Music. Here is a verse of it:—
“ ‘ Oh. never covet thy neighbour's goods,’
So the parson said, ‘nor his maid;
For to rob a man of that that’s (!) his,
Whya fellow should bo afraid.
And, oh! covet not, thou man of sin,
(1 pray you this matter to mark),
Thy neighbour's wife,’ said the parson;
‘ No, the maid for me,’ said the clerk,
‘ Amen!’
‘ The slavey for me,’ said the clerk.”
The air of this is very catching, and it should, we
shou’dsay, be popular with the clergy—in time.
* * * *
Just remembered it! As Herr Bandmann
is to play “ Narcisse” shortly, that a gentleman
named Gospodin Lubimoff has been playing
“Narcisse” in London. Thus the Figaro; “Gos-
podin Lubimoff (we forbear to give this gentle-
man his Russian title) played ‘Narcisse’ in an
adaptation by Mr. James Schonberg of Bruch-
vogel’s celebrated tragedy, which has already
served under another adaptation to glorify the
gentle Herr Bandmann.” Is this satire, or do they
mean it? Our experience of Daniel is that he is the
mildest of men. Only there is rippling rumour in
the theatre that when you put him out be puts you
out. We shan’t put him out. He’s too big!
* * * *
It seems the Holloways are still alive.
Some people never die. We heard that one of them
was killed by the Northern natives and made into
an idol, and that the other had eaten an alligator
for a bet, and it had killed him. It wouldn’t have
killed him, they say, only the boys had previously
filled it with wire nails. What liars there are in the
world ! It seems both are blithe as ever, and play-
ing up at Brisbane in “Queen’s Evidence,” the
“Lights’ o’ London,” and other parlour pieces.
Well, we are glad to hear they are not dead. Still,
Brisbane is a good way off, and there is no knowing
what might happen before they reach heie. Let
us hope for the best. We need not say what
that is.
The Rosa Towers Variety Company have
been playing at Newcastle, and the local critic
seems, like ourselves in the happy days gone by,
to have fallen under the spell of Rosa’s eyes. He
eulogises everything, from the witching manager-
ess herself, to the boy who brought the boer-jug
round to the back in the interval. One actor, he
says, “earned laurels with which to carry him
northwards.”
♦ • « ♦
A smile, dear readers, brightens
Weary eyes and mouth;
A gleam of sunshine lightens
The dull and deary page,
With all its verbiage,
Of some poor country paper,
In all ways else so bare,
When printed wo see there
The name of Jimmy South.
Mr. South, with a good company—he always has a
good company—is playing up Forbes way, and is
doing all the business wo would wish him,
* * * «
We are the favourites of Fortune. Honours
are falling thick and fast upon us. It was only the
other day we wore allowed to stand with our hats
on and talk quite familiarly with Herr Randmann.
And before we had finished boasting about this,
whom should wo meet but Mr. Geneso, the agent
for the Polk Company, who actually shook our
hand and asked us how we were. We replied, in a
voice husky with emotion, that we were fading
fast. He did not seem in any way affected by this,
but taking a grip of our hand, closed his eyes and
began: “I am the agent of the Polk Company.
Open in the Opera House, September 8th. Com-
pany consists, besides Mr. and Mrs. Polk, of Johnny
Hall, Myra Kemble, Mrs. Bryer, Nellie Bryer, Julia
Merton, George Forbes, Edwin Lester, Boothman,
Robert Vernon, and others more or less gifted and
numerous. Open only for a limited season, pre-
vious to going to New Zealand ” “ What piece
do you open in ?" wo interrupted, for which wo
were sorry afterwards, as he said we had put him
out. “ In the ‘ Arabian Nights ; or, Haroun al
Rasohid and his Mother-in-law,’” no replied, after
a reflective pause. “ What sort of play is it ?” wo
asked. “Society comedy taken from the German,”
he answered, quite easily. “ Who took it from the
German, and was the German out at the time V”
we continued. Ho glared at us fixedly for a
moment, and then—we lied into the night.
* * * *
We saw “Sweethearts,” a charming two-
act comedy by Gilbert, played by the Lotos A.D.
Club at the Academy of Muslo, last Tuesday.
There was a lot of Interest attached to the thing
because Myra Kemble was to make her re-appear-
ance, and a great deal had been whispered about a
young j»rty named Clync, who was said to be quite
a prodflfr I In order to enhance the interest of the
following narrative—brief as it is—wo wish to re-
mark that Mr. C.’s front name is David—though
whether his godfathers and godmothers promised
and vowed in the usual way is more than we (being
conscientious) care to go bail for, though wo have
not the least doubt that they did.
• • •
There was a big crowd, chiefly composed
of gorgeously bedecked descendants of the chosen
seven tribes (the performance was complimentary!)
and a multitude of mashers who had come,
hundreds of miles, perhaps, to gaze on Mvra. Mr.
Clyno was the Harry Spreadbrow, a; d though ho
was stiff and a trifle amateurish in the first act, in
the second, where he comes back as the old Indian
knight, ho gave a performance which was surpris-
ing, so good was his by-play, and so delicate his
touch. Miss Kemble, as may be imagined, was
delightful as Jenny Northcott. Her acting at the
finale of the first act brought out the pocket-
handkerchiefs. Mr. E. F. Way, junior, did the
gardener so well that but for the fiower-pots ho
might have been mistaken for the turncock) while
Miss Maud Douglass was dull as Ruth. “ War to
the Knife” came next, but even though “ our own
Mary Ann” was in it, wo were unable to stay. We
may remark that Herr Kuster led his band with
his Kustcrmary success. Sara Poole was stage-
manager, and the affair was a great go—and would
have been greater, so far as wo are concerned, but
for some swarthy faces amongst the audience
which suggested pecuniary reminiscences of a
harrowing nature.
* * * *
If you should want to know the reason,
You shall in rhyme ;
Though rhyme and reason are not in season
At any time.
We’d intended to write, at least, a column
To make you laugh,
And wcTc cut down now to a single, solemn,
Poor paragraph.
Just so. Our fancy Is fettered, our genius gyved.
But never mind; a triumphant lime is coming,
when we shall bo able to speak our minds—if we
are fortunate enough to have minds loft to speak
by then. We wanted to spread ourselves out and
sparkle and pirouette through paragraph after
paragraph about “ Barbe Hleue,” and wo are now
informed that there isn’t space for this. Well,
Appleby’s benefit was a great financial success.
The circle was full of white ties and en-
thusiasm ; the pit, of plebeians and ginger-
beer. Mr. Appleby, as King Bobeche, was a
living joke —which is saying something, as
most of the jokers we know died long ago, and
only their feeble ghosts remain to naunt the
fevered dreams of the circus clown and the comic
editor. Miss Chard impressed us with her clever-
ness in the part of Boulotte as much as she did
with her beauty in the part of Queen Isabel in
“Manteaux Noirs.” It is something very like a
triumph for an actress to perform so well in two
such different rdles. What we like about Deane
Brand is his gracefulness. Ho is always a Prince
Florizel on the stage. And Popolani—that is to
say, Mr. J. H. Rainford—his singing is superbly
serviceable. Knight Ashton (Blue Beard), how-
ever. is the hero of the piece. We have never
heard his voice to such advantage before. And
his acting is almost better than his voice. By
the way, we did not say that his voice is
hut that, of course, is superfluous. It is super-
fluous, also, for us to say that the dresses were
magnificent—those of Blue Beard and Boulotte
were wonderful. And when wo remonstrate with
Miss A. Schracdcr, who was supposed to bo a Prin-
cess disguised as a Shepherdess, for disguising her
voice at the same tme, wo think we may
proudly conclude. We cannot conclude, how-
ever, without remarking that when Mr.
Appleby came out between the acts, and, in a neat
and funny little speech, thanked the gentlemen of
the Press for their kindness to him, a person with
furzy hair and frowsy dress, who looked some-
thing like a cross between a scarecrow and an
effigy, stood up in a hack seat and smiled in proud
acknowledgement. We afterwards were told that
he was the representative of the Leichhardt
Lazarus. And then we left.
* * * *
Just a little par. all to her little self. We
don’t mind telling you that we write this with a
pleasure which almost amounts to eagerness. The
intrepid Simmons, who called round, suggested an
ode to introduce it, rather longer than * Paradise
Lost,” and when we told Henry to write it him-
self he said he had forgotten his pencil Well,
under the patronage of the Dear Old Chicken
Fancier, G.C.M.G. and Lady Loftus, Miss Beaudet
takes her “ben.” on Friday next, 31st August, at
the Gaiety, when she will enact “ The Woman of
the People” for the last time. We don’t know,
somehow, how to write anything squarely enco-
miastic—and, besides, what would be the good,
when the weight of the check-boxes is a foregone
conclusion.
* * * *
A New Zealand theatrical entrepreneur
sent a letter to a Wesleyan clergyman, soliciting
patronage for a “ moral ” play he was about to put
on, and received the following reply “ Will you
kindly allow me to return the compliment by in-
viting you and the members of your company to
the services to bo conducted in the Wesleyan
Church on Sunday next, at 11 a.m. and 7 p.m. The
stewards will be glad to find you free sittings, and
you will not be under any obligation to contribute
to tho voluntary offertory. The subject of the
morning will be ' The true life, and moral discip-
line,’ and that of the evening, * The one thing neec-
ful,’ —the other portions of the services, including
music, as usual. I would especially remind you
that this may bo the last opportunity you will have
of accepting such an invitation, for tho end of all
things is at hand. Let us therefore be sober, and
watch unto prayer.” Whew! You can’t do
tho Bandmann-Garnsey trick everywhere.
‘ THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession .]
Mr. George Rignold has received a letter
from Mr. Henry Irving, asking him to play Charles
in VV. G. Wills’ drama “ Charles I.” in Australia.
Mr. Irving winds up his letter by expr. ssing a hope
that ho himself may ere long visit “Greater
Britain,” as Sir Charles Dilko christened the vast
Australian colonies... .On 16th August, a big bon.
was given at Adelaide, to John Hall, late musical
conductor of the Theatre lloyal there, who has
been ill a long time. The milk of human kindness
was shown by the creme of the profession giving
their services, and £80 was netted for John —
Rignold opened in “Lights o’ London” there, 13th,
to crowded house. Tom Margetts, combine, is
there too; likewise Hermann, the ventriloquist....
Jack Scantlbury wires us from Inverell that
“ business is excellent,” with good prospects all the
way through to Brisbane.
* * ♦
Helen Barry, the actress, who is over six
feet high, was originally Mrs. Brandon, wife of a
London cigar dealer. Then Dion Bouclcault cap-
tured her for the leading Amazon in “ Babil and
Bijou,” in which Lord Londesborough became
Interested to the tune of £13,000. A divorce fol-
lowed, and Major Alec Rolls became Miss Barry’s
spouse. Soon after, t e climbed the golden stair-
case, and the widow again became the bride of
Henry Bolam, whoso recent sudden death loaves
Helen once more an available matrimonial prize.
Anent the ridiculous gush circulated by Miss
Schwab about Mrs. Langtry, the following is a
pretty sick specimen : “ A bird lander in New
York had a beautiful dove which Mrs. Langtry
wanted, and which inspired the bird man to say :
‘I would offer you the whole bird, but the wings
are all you appear to need.’ ” — No more bouquets
are to bo flung to actresses. In England, of late,
the folly had grown to a preposterous pitch, the
most incompetent beginners having gigantic
baskets or wreaths of flowers handed up to them
on the stage by the footmen of their adorers.
Affairs, however, came to climax at one of the
late Gaiety mnlinfce. The friends of an incom-
petent schoolgirl allowed her to flaunt her ignor-
ance ns Juliet one afternoon. She, o‘; course,
burlesqued the part appallingly ; but when, at the
conclusion of the third act, the silly young woman
came curtseying before the curtain, followed by a
powdered flunkey wheeling a gilt barrow full of
bouquets, the few sight-seers present fairly
screamed with laughter. The next night, at Miss
Ellen Terry’s benefit at the Lyceum, not a single
flower was to be seen. Hundreds of notabilities,
from the Prince and Princess of Wales downwards,
brought bouquets, but by the actress’s special re-
quest they were sent round to her dressing room
quietly, instead of being presented in the usual
way. ‘if the “stars" of the profession should re-
solve to decline to accept floral tributes publicly,
it will be a bad lookout for the market gardeners.
.... Here is a malicious par : “ A member ol the
Langtry company, who has made several hits in
light comedy lines, stated, in reply to-a friend’s
inquiry for the reason of his poor performances,
that his contract would not allow him to do any-
thing to detract the attention of the audience
from the star hoi-self. Nilsson has a clause in
In her contract with Abbey that no artist to bo
engaged shall be paid a larger salary than that to
be received by herself. This was Incorporated at
Nilsson’s request to attest her love for Patti
The latest thing in London comic songs is known
as the “Vital Spark,” describing the appearance
and habits of ’Any. The tune possesses some
good points (says a correspondent), nut to hoar the
butcher’s boy and the milkman, and the postman,
each bawling the chorus under one’s window live
times per diem, is terrible. I never can quite
make out what the first lines are, but I know the
last is—
“ Where arc yer going on Sunday, ’Arry, now
you’ve got ’em on ?
for it is invariably shouted at the lip-top of the
sinirer’s voice... .Senor Stincho’s cowboys, in tno
opera, “Don Filibusto," now being played with
great success in New York:—
First Cowboy.—I’m the howler from the prairies of
the West; •
If you want to die with terror look at me.
I’m chain lightning—if I ain’t may J bo blessed!
I’m the snorter of the boundless perarie.
Chorus.—He’s a killer and a hater;
He’s a great annihilator;
He's the terror of the boundless perarie.
Second Cowboy.—I’m the snoozer from the upper
trail; , . .
I’m the reveller in murder and m gore;
I can bust more Pullman coaches on the rail
Than any one who’s worked the job before.
Chorus—He’s a snorter and a snoozer;
He’s the trunk-line abuser:
He’s the man who puts the sleeper on
the rail.
Third Cowboy.—I’m the double-jawed hyena from
the East;
I’m the blazing bloody blizzard of the States;
I’m the celebrated Blogger; I’m the beast;
I can snatch a man bald-headed while ho waits.
Chorus —He’s a double-jawed hyena;
He’s the villain of the scena;
He can snatch a man bald-headed while
he waits.
Thus the Clipper;—“As we write, Lillian
Russell is on the high seas, and we hasten to get off
this before she gets oil the steamer:—
Hoed not the idle gossip that attends her as she
sails. , ,. . ,
The wild and looney rumours, or the inter-
viewer’s tales.
The Clipper, in its enterprise, the real reason
nails: , ...
She’s hurried to the other side to mash the
Prince of Wales:”
. . It is stated that Ristori is to make another fare-
well tour of America a year hence. The lady will
appear in English-speaking parts for the first time
in sixty-seven years.... Ada Ward is in the States,
playing—sweet young creature I —Rosalind, &c.,
with the Edgar combination—Manager of the
Parthenon : “ And what experience have you had,
my lord?” Young Viscount Saltimbank : “Oh, I
played Romeo at the Jollity last Thursday morning.
I was called before the curtain seven times.”
Manager: Exactly. Then I think your lordship
may study the first servant in our next piece. He
comes in the last act, you know, and says:
Dinner’s ready 1 ’’—London Punch.. .At the
banquet given to Irving, the actor, on his departure
for America, archbishops, bishops, peers, scholars,
scientists, and artists were as thick as leaves in
Vallambrosa.
A man known to other men as Jeremiah
Dwyer, and to himself as “The Prophet,” was
arrested in Wagga, a week or two ago, on a charge
of theft. Jerry in his defence casually mentioned
*• that he was the representative of no less than 13
lost tribes and that all the churches were against
him, and that he was deputed by the Lord to begin
a crusade against them with burning coals.”
According to this statement, there are two more
lost tribes. So that all the tribes arc lost. We
always thought they would bo. But wo don't
wonder now why prophets were unpopular in
Judea. Jerry is now in the Gladesvile Asylum.
These are the days of little faith.
Weakness and sickness changed to health
and strength with Hop Bitters always. See.


MELBOURNE POLICE COURT.
I was at the Court again, Mr. Editor. Oohl Me
and the other leading reporter went down, and
there we saw James Murphy behind the rails, look-
ing out with one eye at the Binch. Poor old white-
headed man! he was all wrinkled like the Governor,
and his nose was blue on the top. The other lead-
ing reporter says to me, “Isn’t it a pity ?” says he;
and I says “ Ooh I” Then Constable Flannery gets
in the box, and says he, “ Where’s the buk 7” And
whin they threw him the Book, he kissed at it till
half the kivver stuck to his moustache. Thin, says
he, rubbing away the bits of kivver, “ 01 arrlsted
the prisner.” “Did ye?” says the Binch. “Oi
did,” says Constable Flannery. Ooh, Mr. Editor.
Thin James Murphy lucked with his one eye at the
box, and says he: “What fur?” “Bekase,'’ says
Constable Flannery, “ ye was putting yer hand in
a lady’s pocket.” Ye shud have seen the Binch at
that, Mr. Editor, ooh. The Binch rose on its end,
and lucking straight at the top of the prisoner’s
nose, says; “ Spake, ye octogenarian, spake.” Thin
the prisoner shuffled a bit and leaned his old hands
across the rails, and ye cud see the skin was off his
knuckles, and says he, with a low cough, for his
lungs was weak, “ Ye lie,” says he to the constable,
“ ye lie I” At this stage, the sinsation in the Coort
was tremendjous. Thin Murphy and Constable
Flannery wint at it, and they swore and they
swore, up and down, up and down, backways and
frontways, and round about, and in and out.
Ooh, Mr. Editor. Says the leading reporter to
me, “The Press ought to interfere," says he; “the
old ’un’s breaking down.” “Oohl” says I, and we
went up agin the binch, and says we, “ He’s an old
man, yer Warshup.” Thin the other leading re-
porter spread his hands, rubbed his hair back from
his eyes, stood up on the toes of his boots, and
says, says he: “Yer Warshup, age is venerable;
the snows of winter are on James Murphy’s head,
and the ripeness of autumn is on the tap of his
nose. Luck for yerself, yer Warshup. He has had
a long tramp through this vale of tears, and be the
way he swears ye can see he was once a good man.
He was over full of hope, yer Warshup, and he
toyed with the blossoms of life, and ye can tell be
the one eye he has left that he was a divil once
among the women. There’s no knowing, yer War-
shup, whose father he is—maybe he’s yer own.
Whenever ye see a whiteheaded man, ye can nlver
be sure what relation he is to you. Now, yer
Warshup, me and this other leading reporter, on
behalf of the Press of Victoria, Implore ye to
drap him light.” Ooh, Mr. Editor, the whole Coort
was bathed in tears, and three ladies and a poodle
and a tan-coloured kangaroo dog fainted with the
emotion, and the Binch asked the loan of my
pocket-handkerchief, and I gave it, and rubbed
me own eyes over with the tall of me
coat, and the constable says, says he, “ Oi'll
drap it;” and the Binch says “ Octogenarian,
poor old possible father of everyone in this court,
scoot like lightning,” and the old man says, laying
his nose on the one side, “ It’s true, maybe, that
I’m an ootogeranium, but before I go, yer
Warshup, I want it placed on record that I owe my
freedom to the Press of Victoria.” Thin the
Binch and the other leading reporter and me and
everyone in Coort knelt down on the hard boords,
and James Murphy put his hands on our heads, one
after another, and blessed us, and said he didn’t
know but we might be all his childer, and we didn’t
know either. Ooh, Mr. Editor, it was a touching
sight, and the other leading reporter and me
brought the Binch over to the hotel opposite.
Whin we come back, Mr. Editor, Ann Doyle was
waiting for us. Her eyes were sore and red, and
she had about an inch anda half of beard on her chin,
and the tears was running. Constable Duncan
said she was all running whin he grabbed her, but
whin me and the other leading reporter saw her
she was all stopped but the eyes. “ What have ye
agin Ann?” says the Binch, squaring round and
lucking at the witness-box. “ Yer Warshup,” says
Constable Duncan, “ 01 arrlsted her for staling a
pair of blankets, a sheet, and a quilt from the
premises of Michael Davey, and for popping of
the same.” Ooh, Mr. Editor. “ Have ye tuk the
oath ?” says the Binch. “ A thousand of them,”
says Constable Duncan. “ Weil, where’s the
duds for identification ? ” says the Binch;
“ we’ll have none of yer Star Chambers
here.” Ooh, Mr. Editor, that’s just what me
and the other leading reporter were after saying.
They must be Three Star Chambers or nothing.
“The influence of the Press,” says the Binch, “is
against it.” “ Yer Warship,” says Constable Dun-
can, “I’ll call me witnesses. Mrs. Davey hung
them on the line to dhry, and the prisoner scooted
with them under her arm, and raised three bob on
them in Samuel Samuel’s pawnshop.” The sin-
sation in the Coort was tremenjous. Says the other
leading reporter to me, says he, “We ought to in-
terfere, for how do we know but she’s a daughter
of James Murphy’s, and if so, she may be a step-
sister of our own ?” and so we both wint up agin
the Binch, and says we: “The palladium of the
British law is equity founded on precedent. The
relationship established by James Murphy extinds
equally to Ann Doyle. The Press of Victoria, yer
Warshup, is the most logical in the world, and it
now appeals to ye for a just vardict. “ Who’s yer
father,” says the Binch to Ann. " He’s dead
years ago,” says the prisoner. “ Thin ye’re sure
he’s not James Murphy?” “Cocksure,” says Ann;
“ he died in the poor house In County Clare, when
I was teething.” Thin me and the other loading
reporter lucked at the Binch, and whispered:
“ She’s a poor simple Irishwoman, yer Warshup
and doesn’t know better. She may be a step-
sister all the while, for wasn’t James Murphy
a great traveller, and like as not he was in
the County Clare, too. Blood is thicker that water
yer Warship, and give a good vardict.” The Binch
winked at us, and says: “I’ll get her out another
way. Now,” says 1 he Binch, loud and angry like,
“perduce the duds for idlntiflcatlon. I’U not
condim the woman till I see the duds.” “But,
yer Warship," says Constable Dunoan, “ I have’nt
thim. I lent thim tor a case of distress last night.
It was a very sad case, yer W arship, and the night
was freezing the marrow in their bones, and they
begged me to lend the duds as they hadn’t a stitch
to kivver thim till morning.” “ Who did ye Hnd
thim to ?” cried the Binch. “ I lint thim,” says
Constable Duncan, “to the staff of the Dailt
Telegraph.” ‘Well, scoot like lightning down
Collins-street and git thim back,” cries the Binch.
“It’s no use,” says Constable Duncan, laying
down in the box and weeping, “they popped thim
agin and lost the tickets, and doesn’t know what
street it was in.” “ Well, I acquit the prisoner,”
says the Binch, winking at us. The applause In the
Court was something tremendjous. Thin Ann
Doyle and her eyes both ran, and, as the other
i leading reporter and me brought the Binch to tbs
hotel opposite, we saw her away down the street,
her and her nose at a dead heat. Ooh, Mr. Editor.
" THE MILK IN THE COCOA NUT”
John Bull: “ It’s these oil missionaries, my boy, who’ve put it into your head—darn ’em,— to work on your pockets and mine. Just you grow a bit


BRIEF MENTION.
The old order giveth place to the new.
The Sydney harbour picnic pales before that of
Lake Macquarie.
At the opening of the Redfern public
library, Parkes spoke very disparagingly of novels,
yet many ef his speeches were undoubtedly works
of fiction.
If you have read Milton, you know that
there was nice discord in heaven. Well, there
will again be discord when the Sydney Salvtu-
tion Army band get into Paradise.
Mr. Bernard Monaghatn, of Cowra, was
tired of a good many things—especially of life.
He thought that by getting rid of the latter the
other discomforts would also dlspppear. He Is not
alone in this belief. He told his wife that he was
going “ to meet the coach,” hut a beam in the
ouse caught his eye, and appeared to possess for
him the horrible fascination of a boa for a rabbit.
“Who can control my fate,” thought he, while
fastening one end of a rope round it. Then, with
tho other end round his neck, it only wanted a
vigorous kick at the bale of chaff supporting him.
He irave it, and, like the lamented Benjamin
Battle, “enlisted in the line.” Did he meet the
coach ? Is there a coach to meet ? When shall
we get a solution of these problems ?
The editor of a country ex-
change, gives instructions in a
paragraph, about how to find the
contents of a cask. This is the
first Instance we have met of a
country editor knowing his own
measure.
The Times (a journal, price
threepence, published in London)
is about to start a half-penny
morning paper. There has been
long an evening paper at that
price, and it has got to be worth
£70,000, and has had influence
enough to put two of its proprie-
tors into Parliament. Whether
this is the beginning of a revolu-
tion in the newspaper world or
not, we cannot say. It looks like
It, however. What agitates us in
all this, though, Is that supposing
the London Daily Telegraph
lowered to a halfpenny, what
could our Rum possibly lower to
In order to keep pace with the
times. What? we wonder! We
might suggest either a pea-nut
or a oramp-bone.
Robert Henry Russell called
in at the shooting gallery, Bourke
street, Melbourne. H e fired a few
shots, and showed himself pos-
sessed of a sharp eye and steady
hand. Then he asked the lad to
go and wipe the marks oft the
target, and, while doing so,
Robert Henry took up a loaded
gun, placed the muzzle against
his temple, pulled the trigger,
fell down, was brought to the
hospital, and lies there in what
the papers always call a “pre-
carious condition.” He’ll get
over it, you’ll see. They always
co. Why, we remember a case
that occurred, under our noses,
long ago, when the language
heard about us was that of Paul
de Kook. A man had frequently
attempted to take his life, and
had been as often prevented.
Then he got mad, and deter-
mined to do a treble shuffle off
the evil. He bought a pistol, a
rope, a stake, and a bottle of
prussic acid. Going to a cliff that
beetled 600 feet over the sea, he
drove the stake in, yanked one
end of the rope round it and the
other round his neck, swallowed
the poison, jumped off the cliff,
and, while falling, fired the pistol
at his head. Then he closed his
eyes, and thought ’twas all fixed
properly. The ball grazed his
“nut” and cut the rope. Fall-
ing into the sea. the salt water
acted as an emetic. He threw up
the poison, and was washed
ashore, feeling better than ever
he’d felt in his life before. We
saw him afterwards doing the
provinces in a circus—a sort of
bucolic “ dismal Jimmy.” There.
The old saying about a
wedding being the next worst
thing to a hanging, seems to hold
particularly good in Clunes, Vic.
A nice young couple were made
one there a few days ago, only to
be violently divided the moment
they left the church door. A
crowd of courteous young men
bombarded them with old boots,
stones, sticks, dead cats, and
everything handy. The bride and
bridegroom reached home in dif-
ferent directions, and were so
frightened when they got there,
that they hardly recognised each
other. But this was only the first
part of the performance. The
focal fire-brigade turned out soon
after, and. putting the hose down
the chimney, swamped the couple
out of the cottage. It is sup-
posed that the fine young fellows
who got up ail this fun were re-
jected suitors of the bride. At
this rate, anyhow, the most ap-
propriate wedding presents in
Clunes would be a suit of armour
and a portable howitzer. Also,
it might be a wise precaution for
the officiating minister, after he
had got through the marriage
service, to road the prayers for
the dead over the rash pair.
Then, if a cast-iron cab, mounted
with scythe-blades, and drawn by
a steel-clad steed were on hand
for them to get into, they might
reach home In safety. But even
with these safeguards, we think
if we had to choose between
jumping off a house-top and
getting married in Clunes, we
should elect the house-top.
The Rivbrine Evening Stab says it in-
tends “ opening a kennel column.” This we pre-
sume is in imitation of the Hum.
The editor of the Newcastle Morning
Herald says he can read this journal without
being “a hair the worse in his theology.” Of
course. That’s because he’s bald-witted.
A new rabbit destroyer has been tested
with success. About 100 can be destroyed for one
shilling. And it so simple. All you have to do is
to get the hundred rabbits into a big cask and
scald'them.
A man who was very drunk fell down the
other day, when a good-hearted woman asked him
“if he was paralysed.” Looking up, he replied
gaily, “ Paralysh ? Oh no, ralsh (hie.) I’m only
(hie) civilized !”
Down South a hardshell clergyman
entered a saloon carriage, when he observed a
poor wretch with a swag coming after. “ Oh, you
mustn’t come in here,” hastily said the “ humble
follower,” “ go to your own place.”
The Cairns (Q.) paper calls the cutting of
a track between that place and the Johnston River
a proof “ that our neighbours reciprocate the de-
sire evinced by Cairns to draw tighter the bonds of
friendship and intercourse between the two
places.” We suppose, now, that if a half-way
Is started on the track, It will be de-
scribed as “a glorious example of good-fellowship'
and civilization marching hand In hand.” And a
pretty serpentine march it will be, too. Only the
establishment of a lock-up where residents of
both these thriving places might meet on friendly
terms, Is now wanted to make Cairns and the other
place as civilized as any towns in the colony. And
when this is done, the editor will have to move,
for he will have exhausted all the epithets in the
English language.
This is the age of enlightment. The works
of Huxley. Tyndall, and Herbert Spencer were
lately confiscated by the Canadian Customs
authorities as being “immoral, irreligious and In-
jurious.” Which is much as If a drunken man
were to go down to the sea-beach, and try to drive
the roaring ocean back by cursing it. There are
many such drunken men in the world. But It is a
Sleasure to know that they are gradually getting
rowned out.
The Forbes Times is, since the decease or
removal of the Temora Herald, the only truly
comic paper ioft; for while the Presbyterian is
written in a light and skittish vein, Henry Harrle
Cooke’s publication is your truly humorous jour-
nal. Henry has been shown “ a case of exhibits,”
consisting of a bride-cake, a bonnet, and—wo
quote him—“ as a natural incidence, or rather se-
quence, to the above la a large pincushion of white
satin most elaborately ornamented with beads, and
on which are the words ‘ Welcome, sweet babe.’”
“Miss Claffey ” (1) It seems, made the “ headgear,”
while the cake was “from the confectionary de-
partment In Mr. Prow’s establishment.” This
ought to make Prow Prowd. We wonder
which “department in Mr. Prow’s establishment”
the inscription on the pincushion came from !
“ The Cheerful Confidence ” department, we should
surmise.
The Masonic mysteries were mighty nearly
being discovered in a New Zealand town lately.
The local lodge was sitting, and a speaker was
growing eloquent over the awful solemnity of the
signs and ceremonies of the Order, when the door
was burst open, and a band of marauders, dressed
in tattered Highland costume, danced drunkenly
into the room, headed by three pipers. They
broke up all the proceedings, and it was feared
they would carry away the seal of Solomon and
the little hatchet of Hiram, King of Tyre, before
they left. At this fearful juncture, one of the
brethren was struck with a happy idea. He rushed
to the cupboard and took out half-a dozen bottles
of Glenllvet. Then, displaying them to the in-
vaders, he cleared out to t>'o ante-room. They
crowded him in a second. The door was locked
behind t em, and the seal of Solomon and the
little hatcbetof Hiram weje saved. Thisisanother
proof of the miraculous power of whisky.
If there is a man in modern journalism
who deserves to have the eternal slamming of
Athanasius about his ears it is Escott, of the Fort-
nightly. What, in the name of the seven deadly
sins (or fourteen, which?) inspired him to begin
those * Kosmos” tetters in the London World?
Look at the havoc he has made of the brains of
striplings; look at the host of baldheaded Idiots,
with their fingers inked, who file down the columns
of the dailies and weeklies with their “letters to
eminent men!” Panton, the Melbourne police
magistrate, was the “eminent man" of a recent
letter. “ Sir,” the Escott-made lunatic went on,
“ you are a Scotchman. Sir, you are a most useful
public servant. Sir, I overheard a conversation
about you the other day. Sir, I do not suppose I
shall ever be placed In the unpleasant nositlon of
one who is brought before you as an offender
against the law.” Drivel, drivel—a Gunter’s chain
or It! Thunder! Australia ought to raise a sub-
scription to send home a man to assassinate Escott I
D’ye hear, Redmond ? We’ll give a pound and a
brick. Brain him. The saveloy man or boy (d la
Middleton) who scribbles for Morty may howl—
but let him howl. The “ eminent men ” will bless
you. Now we think of it, you can put us down for
a hundred of bricks.
We are grieved to see that despite the
ministrations of so many disinterested and unself-
ish members of all churches, tfi’ere are still left
some irreverent persons In Sydney. It was only the
other day that the Salvation Army was marching
along, singing
“ You’d better come to , to , to ,
While you may,”
when a man who was sucking at his pipe on the
side-walk said “ Are you goin’ ?” “ We bar, dear
brother,” replied a captlng. “ Is that feller goin’
who’s blowing into the bugle?” was the nextquos-
tion. “Yea, verily,” was the answer. “And that
cove with the broken nose ?” “ He is.” “ And the
man "dth the nose who hadn’t been sober for five
years ?” “ Yes.” “ But not the cove with the ears,
who’s only just come out—not him t ” “ Even so.”
“ Thunder r’ said the man; “I’m away from this
picnic. I’d he afraid of getting killed!”
Palmer River journals are again on the
howl for a resident ASscnlaplus. As a rule, they
use up a doctor there every second day. The first
thing the medico does is to anchor his squill box
and traps in a place where they “sell it ’’ straight,
even on 8 ndays. Next day he skips about in his
shirt, and tells the hospital people he’s a Roman
Senator going to the assassination of Julius Cresar,
and later on he interviews the local editor and re-
quests him to write up a big par. about a fight he
had with a blue alligator that wore crimson eye-
balls, a maroon tail, and climbed up a 40ft gum-
tree to pelt the doctor with murderers’ skulls, and
half-pound tins of hissing, flaming, dessicated
thunderbolts. Then the authorities give him
twelve months, and advertise for another pill-
roller, who is anxious, as the papers put it, “to
find a wide field for the exercise of his abilities,
and a generous, sociable, intelligent, and indus-
trious class of people with whom to associate.”
A most respectable weekly, having re-
cently devoted its front pages to ladles’ under-
clothing, Is becoming a disseminator of a rnos
dangerous sort of knowledge—or, rather, of a most
dangerous sort of speculation in connection with
the knowledge. We all know I hat petticoats are a
legitimate wear, though the peculiar function they
dlscharge is recognised by the initiated only. But
how long they are to continue to be legitimate
under the analysis which their influence is now re-
ceiving, It is hard to say. The Australasian of
the 18th contain* the following: “To all who have
any causality, it must be apparent that the petti-
coat proper acts on the sucker principle of tho
cup in bleeding, and that the wearer s warmth
causes greatly increased evaporation of any damp
over which she may be standing.” Now, to all
who have any causality, that is a most pregnant
remark. But why should It be revealed to every-
one ? Is there not a danger that Its action on the
general imagination will also be on tho sucker
principle? What mists of complex problems will
be raised by the spectacle of Mdle. Cotillon step-
ping from the footpath! We are advocates for a
free Press. But if the Press chooses to go hunting
up these vapours, ana to ascertaining how exactly
they are disposed of, we will pass over to the right
hand of the Chief Justice. But in the disquisi-
tions of the Australasian there is not alone the
revelations of bizarre tastes, but also of an in-
cendiary spirit. We all know what it costs to
water our streets. Economical corporations may
try to reduce the expense by refusing a right-ol-
way to those fearful engines of evaporation. W hat’s
the use of sending round a sprinkling cart, and
then letting loose a lot of sucker cups to take it
all up In steam ? It would not surprise us to find
a city father trying to carry a by-law charging
sucker-cups so much an hour for liberty to walk
our streets, except at flood-time. Altogether, we
are ashamed of the editor of the Australasian.
A country paper In com-
plaining of the want of accommo.
datlon for its reporter at the
court-house, says that versatile
young man has often had to
“take his notes on his knees.’’
Why, what is that? We have
known reporters of dally papers
in this city, where they ran short
of slips, taking their notes on
their ears. And very voluminous
notes they were, too.
Criticising Frncst Renan’s
“ Recollections of my Youth,”
the Noozr says: “It is egoistic
in the extreme, but the egoism
never jars no one.” The Nooze’s
recollections of English gram-
mar, on the contrary, seem likely
to “ jar ” every one. Parties who
are so apt at giving the “ jar ” in
this respect should get an appro-
priate return in the shape of the
“Jug.” Mho suggestion in tho
present instance is, however, pro-
bably unnecessary.
Over in Geelong, the other
day, a Ballarat sporting man
made a wager of £50 with an-
other, that O’Donnell who killed
Caroy would escape the gallows.
There are some men who would
bet about anything. Wo remem-
ber meeting a man of this sort,
whom we knew once, in King-
street, one day. Immediately lie
saw us he rushed up, shook hands,
and then asked us if wo had soon
a telegram about (lie loss of a
certain ship with art hands—this
occurred a good while ago, so wo
forget the name of tho snip. We
replied that we had seen the tele-
gram. “Ah,” ho said, in a voice
choking with emotion, “ my poor
wife was on board." We felt
sorry for him, and made the only
reply, expressive of sympathy,
that we con Id—viz.: that the tele-
gram might have been incorrect,
that there might have been some
survivors of the shipwreck, and
that his wile might have been
one of them. “ Do yon really be-
lieve this?” he asked. “Cer-
tainly,” we replied. “Then I’ll
lay you two to one she wasn’t,”
was his instant rejoinder. The
wager was ■such a curiously cool
one, that we accepted it. About
a week alter he called round to
see us. His face wore such a
look of sadness, that we con-
cluded at once his wife had been
drowned with the others. We
therefore expressed our sorrow.
“8o, old fellow, you’ve lust—”
we began. “ Fes,” he interrupted
“I’ve lost.” And laying the
amount of his wager down on
tho table, ho left without saying
another word. Next time we mot
him, his face was bandaged. His
wife had not been drowned.
Which shows what a bad habit
betting is.
G. R. Sims complains that
English audiences laugh where
they used to blush, and marital
infidelity is voted amusing on
the stave of the Gaiety [French
plays] by the flower of our fe-
male aristocracy, and applauded
by peeresses quite as heartily as
it is at the Calais Royal or
Varies by the Parisian demi-
mondaines who largely compose
the audiences of the latter
houses.” Well, marital infidelity,
if only depicted on tho stage, is
very amusing; and really “peer-
esses" don’t seem to think vin
ordinaire of it in real life. Look
at the long string of them, headed
by Lady Desart, that have figured
in the Divorce Court lately; and
the prospective string that are
about to figure 1 High life and
low morals se m strangely as-
similated. Even poor inoffen-
sive little 8t. John, with his red
under-waistcoats, and his diplo-
matic droop, couldn’t escape ! A
terrible Major first carries on, and
then carries her off, We wonder
at that Major. But, perhaps,
ladies of higher rank are scarce
at the Cape I We wonder whether
tho Queen will come “ the Pon-
sonby” over Major Stephenson,
or whether Hold-Marshal H.R.H.
the Prince of Wales will re-
firoach him. But we wonder a
ot of things in the course of the
week.
The ship Macduff fetched Williamstown a
few days ago, and then the skipper fetched eight
sailors up for insubordination. Tho case was dis-
missed, but the evidence disclosed a state of things
that carries us back to the time when Bill Hand-
spike and his mates surrounded houses in W» pplng,
and forced the males on board the “ tender" ship
in their shirts, to assist in keeping the French on
their own side of the pond. For seven nays these
men did not receive a morsel of food from the
captain. Their water supply was also stopped, so
that some of them had to ‘lick the dew from the
bulwarks of the ship.” Then they got too weak
to go about. In the meantime, the gallant skipper
and his officers carried loaded revolvers, and the
former occasionally discharged a barrel of his, just
to show that he wusabout. It is hard to under-
stand why the commander brought them up in
Wilii.imstown, as ho had frequently described the
magistrates of that lively place as “either low
publicans or prostitute mongers.” John F. Har-
wood, one of the passengers, volunteered his evi-
dence. lie said the conduct of the captain was
disgraceful He was villainous and tyrannical.
“On one occasion a seaman was lying in his hunk,
the captain standing near him. witness heard the
sailor crying out that some one was breaking his
leg. He (witness) at once proceeded to the sa tor’s
sleeping apartment where he saw the captain.
The sailor was lying on the bed apparently in great
pain.” Rule, Britannia.


VANITY FAIR.
In America, the practice of making the
dead look alive has been developed into an art, and
the embalmed and painted corpse is exhibited to
friends in a “ casket ” with a glass top, and lined
with different-coloured velvets;—“Two ladies
were hoard to agree that the Funeral Department
at Philadelphia Exhibition was quite the most in-
teresting. Said the first, ‘ Oh! that lovely casket
of delicate blue velvet, lined with pale-rose satin,
so beautifully quilted!’ ‘Well,’ said the other,
‘for my part, I preferred the black velvet,
with crimson velvet lining. You know enm-
son is so becoming to a corpse...Kenan
-wonders how, being a Kelt crossed with Gas-
con ami with a slight infusion ot Laplander, he
doesn’t represent the maximum of idiotcy and im-
becility. Which is modest in the man who writes
more perfect French than any other man ot Ins
day and generation.... Mrs. Alma Tadema, wite ot
the groat artist, is a daughter of Epps, the cocoa-
man. Ho bad three daughters, who were fami-
liarly known by the respective names Nutri-
tious,” “Grateful,” and “Comforting.” It their
respective husbands hud them so, they’ll be splen-
did advertisements for their Pa, and no doubt
make happy cupples—Marriage: Nettle—1 horn.
A prickly pair.... So far as we are concerned, style
is no object. We would just as lief walk to a
cemetery as ride in a hearse—She sang, “ 1 want
to be an angel,” and he swore that she was one al-
ready. To this she demurred. The plaintiff replied;
he married her. Demurrer sustained Madame
Albani was paid £600 for singing two days at the
Handel Festival, Crystal Palace. Albam’s voice is
so rich that she sings golden notes. Patti, how-
ever, declined to gro even for that fee, but asked
£500 a day At a late high London wedding an
Innovation was made. Instead ot the othodox
breakfast, a free and easy reception was held for
friends of the families. It saved expense, as well
as dreariness and weariness at table, and accom-
modated everybody A child was slapped by his
father for misbehavior at table. Turning to his
mother, the youngster, with a superb air, observed
“ Isay, you might toll your husband to take his
hands off me ! ” A statue is to be erected by
public subscription at Walsall (E.) in memory of
the saintly “ Sister Dora.”.... Among tho eccentric
names of new colours for the coming season are,
besides crushed strawberry and raspberry,
“ Vesuvius-lava and elephant's breath.” The
next lot will prohabiy be ticketed “earthquake
grumble” and William-goat In Philadelphia
they have a “ Last man’s club.” Seventeen mem-
bers Plates laid for the lot until all be dead. We
should like to form a society of this kind here of
several people we know. And we should like to
carry the club. Then, if wo could catch them
asleep, we should make pretty sure about being
the “ last man.” . .The common practice in America
is to send the dead to their long homes decked out
in a line raiment of fashionable cut, and with
moustaches waxed and flowers in their button-
holes. . .The Chinese are coming to the front, and
proving their aptitude for the higher civilization.
At Wellington (N.Z.), Ah Ghee was the co-respoad-
ent in a divorce suit Ladies no longer soil their
gloves with greasy cake. Silver “ cake lifters like
sugar tongs nave been invented,....Both in Eng-
land and America now, many society men omit
gloves with evening dress. The Prince of Wales
does not wear them as a rule. In the street, they
are still worn At the French Cooks’ Ball in
New York, one exhibit of the supper table was a
statue of Soyer, life-size, in lard In America,
there is what is called tho garter snake. But a
modest girl always blushes, and says, “ the limb-
encircling ophidian ” Two hundred women In
New York make their living as copyists ; some are
expert shorthand writers, and others make a pro-
fession of typewriting by machine American
girls have the most elegant figures and beauty ;
French ladies are the best dressed ; Germans have
surpassing wealth of hair; Spanish, the finest eyes ;
and English girls have ampler limbs and more
vigorous health all round than any others. We
think it politic to add that Sydney girls, ahem!
combine all these excellences ‘Let mo have
just a little squeeze, miss of lemon, you
know.” There are two periods in a woman s life
when she never talks —before she is born, and
after she is dead. Between times she makes the
world pleasant for that hateful creature, man
When a rich man, say a member of Parliament
dies, ho can’t help thinking just a little of the
money he has to leave. Then he lays over, and
says to himself “This is what I have often sighed
for. even cried for, sometimes Hed for, and nearly
died for. What should I let it slide for ?”. .. When
you see a young man sailing down the street
shortly after midnight with collar mashed down
his neck, you can make up your mind there’s a
young girl crawling up stairs not far distant with
her shoes under her arm and an extinguished
lamp in her hands... .Electric-lighted jewellery i 8
becoming tashionable. A tiny battery is secreted
to illumine stars, brooches, &c,... A New York
marriage certificate was recently issued embossed
in colours on a satin ground, cost £00,.. .A most
prettily effective dress at the International Uni-
versity Boat race was a “study of sea fishery,”
and would make a hit as a “ fancy.” The founda-
tion was of the dull red-brown tint sometimes seen
in sails. Over this, twine-coloured netting was
draped in a slightly fantastic way, and a sort of
rigging, made of slender brown rope, formed a
panel at the left side. The bodice was almost
covered with the netting, which was made of the
fine sort of twine used in macramti work. A knot
of brilliant scarlet ribbon at tho throat like a flying
pennon completed the artistic idea The newest
bonnet is the “ Wheatsheaf”—a fringe of wheat-
ears juts out jaggedly over a lining of moss, and
the crown is composed of small sheaves of straw,
stuck on at eccentric angles. The wear looks a
lovely lunatic It’s heaven to have a sweet
woman's eyes look up at you full of trust. But
you can never get barmaids to look that way....,
there has been such heat lately in New York that
the cofferdam collars have given way. The poor
doods are all broken up A young man at a
watering place, who had seen a chum bathing
from another machine, walked up to a door after-
wards, and knocking, said “ When in blazes acp
you going to get those pants on ?” When, with a
giggle, a silvery voice replied “ O, as soon as I get
married, I suppose,” the idea struck him that he
had knocked at the wrong door. ;
TOPICS OF THE TIME.


FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
jlining affairs at Hobart are very dull, as a
aequence of the numberless swindles lately
♦fated, ijhe sharebrokers are in despair, and see
h insolvent court looming. ...In order “to raise
h tone ’’ of the Victorian Permanent Artillery,
th ! 0 in tended to have a church parade every Sun-
‘ ‘ roor ning. This will not only elevate the “tone,”
t it will raise the men’s voices in wild blasphemy
1)11 the head of the person who proposed it.... Tas-
° ania has started a “ corner ” in earthquakes. In
Launceston they take place regularly, except on
aturday, when they have a half-holiday. In
b
it an i a swag:8man tripped over one, sat down on
tonn/- reinarlte<^ • “This thing is growing mono-
Sydnov ”^ U0 rnore shock, and I’m back again to
over ■■.” Tho Melbourne express, travelling
braktwtf 1^88 Hn k° ur > * s n °k fitted with either
pet i “ e w °°ds or Westinghouse. Some one’ll
Prog, 1 * 1 yot - ■ ■ Constable O’Shea faced William
•iQowi 1 ( " olling ' wood - William, who was well-
blushed ° u l ° °® cer » had a bug on his back, and
a ?ked where he got the sack. So
ten hens r.n4?^ me< ! lt; ’ antl found live turkeys and
-Melbourm. themselves at the bottom. ..The
o n derstimd,-S ao I 8 , to be shifted as sobn as a fair
homo ofthil!? yjtb the prisoners is arrived at.
ibeypppf object to bo sent to the country, as
JbRv Ma inn r Wn b f ' e -, .- In the Nineteenth Cen-
fellenv comi,, 7 ™ nei tells us what a young
fiung out to the colony shou'd know.
Besides two dead and two living languages, he
should be a good “ sailor, carpenter, surveyor,
builder, wheelwright, harness-maker, book-
keeper, geologist, mineralogist, cook and bush-
man. .These are precisely the fellows whose in-
troduction we vo been advocating all these years.
We only came across one youngster like this, and
he was in gaol —Two swagsmen played off the
match-box trick on a Melbourne Scotchman.
When Donald’s £2 were gone, ho put his back to
to the pub. door, and swore “ he’d be dom’d if it
wasn’t a swendle,” and he’d “smosh ” the head of
the first man who dared to leave. The terror-
stricken jokers handed back the plunder, but
Donald’s jaw dropped next day when he found the
notes were “ duffers.”.... An Infusion of eucalyptus
leaves will remove scale from iron boilers... .The
ceiling of the A.M.P. Society’s head office, recently
decorated by Lyon, Cottier, and Co., is said to be
the handsomest in the Southern hemisphere.... At
the Sunbury Lunatic Asylum one bath is allowed
for eight patients. The last man bathes in water
with the chill off....A Gundagai cow got her head
in a barrel of straw. She ate the straw, and stuck
to the barrel, charging round the yard with it on
her head till the axes of half-a-dozen inen removed
it and in theiractivity destroyed her good looks.. .
At Murchison (Vic.), a horse was tied and its brains
beaten out with green saplings... Judge Forbes
attended a concert at Hay. They received him
with the National Anthem, “ Judges at entertain-
ments being as rare in Hay as Governors in Syd-
ney.” — Maud Gardiner, of Narandera, missed her
watch, and George Henry Castuer was “pulled.”
George was committed—his fourth time. When
first sent up, £300 worth of gew-gaws was found
m his portmanteau. He didn’t know how it caine
there—someone put it in....A splendid State
school has just been finished at Nevertlre. All
that’s wanted now is the scholars. The population
left two months before the school was “handed
over.” We can Nevertire of this kind of thing....
t lng ,V tbo dyspeptic Jaques, in “ As You
Like It, to his choral chums; “ Tis no matter who
It be in tune, so it makes noise enough” Jaques
was probably' the leader of the first Salvation
Harmy band on record,...Out of the mouth of a
child cometh wisdom. This is a New Hebrides
niggers reckon up of the missionaries: “Inglls-
man come long a big ship; blentee Bible, blentee
talkee, blentee rum, blentee like it girls-no r/ood.”
Mr William Clarke has left Cooktown (N.Q.)
for the Mitchell and Archer In search of
the bones of his lost brother Walter
They contempt ” us more than ever. Speaking
of things in general, the Age observes; “ If Judge
lilies, of Sydney, were an ordinary instead of an
extraordinary sample of the judicial temper,
society would have rebelled against the danger to
which it is exposed long ago.” By th’ mass, that’s
flat burglary as ever was committed....Mr. Uam-
yon, the Russian Consul, Melbourne, has been the
recipient of the Order of St. Stanislaus, In connec-
tion of the coronation of the Czar. As Mr. Dam-
yon had no more to do with the Coronation than
had David Buchanan’s William goat, we consider
this decoration a Dam-yonnecessary proceeding.
— At Walgett, when the squatter comes in. com-
mission agents are visible. One firm holds the
buggy-horses, another lifts the grazier out, an-
other seizes the portmanteau, consisting of a
tooth-brush, and one pair of socks. Then—“ I can
do you 375,000.000 prime ewes at 9s 4 17-lSd.” “ Oh,
I can do you 375,000,001 at 9s 4 16-18.” Another—" I
am in a position to deliver you 375,000,003 at 9s 4
15-18d.”— 2000 tons stone now at grass on the
Cumberland p.c. lease at Georgetown, N.Q. Addi-
tional crushing plant to be erected ...A country
editor says “ measles arc prevalent.” What is a j
moasle ?—A contemporary makes the extraor-
dinary assertion that “ a thoroughbred bull-dog is
the most docile of dogs.” He is—when dead. We
have one at our office who lives solely on book-
agents and bush-missionaries. Wo dare say he
would be docile enough when he left them, only
for one thing—ho never leaves any of them ...A
headless animal, said to be the bunyip, has been
found near Tumut. The body, which was covered
with short, strong hair, had a porcine appearance,
while the terminal appendage curled Inwards, and
resembled the tail of a huge lobster. We wonder
which libel juryman is missing ?—Wlgzoll, the
tonsoriai prince, has recently developed a trenchant
spirit of satire. He recently sent the Evening
News staff twelve Turkish-bath tickets!
♦ * *
An attempt is being made in France to
permit affiliation, now forbidden by the Civil Code.
Figaro says, that unless limited to certain formal
cases, such as when there was a written promise of
marriage or violence, it would be an eucourage-
ment for young women to sloop to follies which
might turn out to their advantage Of 13,000
clubs in England, 10.000 are classed ns spurious
Sixpenny telegrams in England from 1st Oct
The Duke of Edinburgh's old Galatea is to be
broken up —Labouchore, of Truth, offers to bet
D. D. Home, the spiritualist, £1000 to £100 that no
man can elongate himself, float In the air, or con-
verse with spirits, under conditions which prevent
trickery.. At Carson city’, Nevada, the impression
of a man’s foot, between 18in. and 19in. long, has
been found upon a rook 30 ft. below the surface of
the ground. We never knew that our friend Ivu
came from American stock.... A Portuguese phy-
sician claims that he has cured severe cases of
hydrophobia by simply rubbing garlic into the
wound and giving the patient a decoction of garlic
to drink for several days. We now know whv
organ-grinders continue to play “ Gentle Annie’'’
with such unconcern while our bull-pup is chew-
ing their legs.
This is a bad, wicked boy, who made up a lot of
neat packets, addressed them quite plainly to
R, B. Smith, Esq., M.L.A., Macquarie-street, and
then dropped them one by one in a public
thoroughfare, and lays low to watch effects.
The stout old lady, who came along after the
next packet was deposited, accidentally dropped
her handkerchief over it, and slipped it into her
reticule.
The Rer. Mr. Simpkin was passing
the next one in deep abstraction,
when his eye tell on it. He imagined
it was a hymn book, no doubt, but
that doesn’t explain why he should
have looked casually round to see if
he were observed before he included
it in “ the collection.”
And this is the larikin who first came along,
swooped on the packet, read the direction, and
bolted towards Petersham.
The next packet brought up this respectable
citizen all standing, and induced him, after a
hasty glance round, to slip it into his pocket, and
saunter in an unconcerned manner in the direc-
tion of Newtown.
This young man didn’t notice the direction, probaby, nor yet
this young lady, otherwise he wouldn’t have mashed her by
saying: “You dropped this, I think, Miss?” And she wouldn’t
have blushiugly said: “Oh, thank you; I hadn’t noticed my
loss.
j=weZ-y7and——T eofthel,artiesbelli,Te<1,hat “V “<* P erSOT1 “ * B - Smith, Esq., existed. So they thought they had a perfect right to the-perhap—


W. H. PALING,
366 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
:■
Pianofortes,
Pianofortes,
Pianofortes.
By the following renowned English, French, and
(German Makers: —
Aucher
Ronisch
Hundt & Sohn
Bluthner
Steinway
Sohiedtnayer
Cballen & Son
Ecke
Brard
Pleyel
Collard & Collard
Broadwood & Sons
Klrkman
Soufleto
Trost & Co.
Llpp & Sohn
Blcke
Paling & Co.
A. Bord
Berden & Co.
Herz
Schwechten
Schwander,
Forster
And numerous other Manufacturers.
ORGANS by Bell & Co., Palace Organ Company;
Waters & Co., Pbloubert, and others.
Bell & Co’s. Celebrated Organs, besides other
Awards, gained First and Special Prize over all
other# at the recent Sydney Exhibition.
HARMONIUMS by Alexander & Co., etc.
A Splendid Stock of MUSIC always on hand.
PALING & CO.’S PIANOS have taken SEVERAL
PRIZES at the LATE AUSTRALIAN INTER-
NATIONAL EXHIBITIONS.
W . H . PALINO,
Pianoforte, Organ & Harmonium Galleries,
350 GEGRGE STREET.
kEMlN
HARVESTlKg
ACHfNERv
CHAMPION
ENGINES
AND
THHEMII
FI CUR
B
U
ar*
i'LBMING’S Carriage and Machinery Repobitobt
22 and 28 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
PAIN
vIOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
. 'JRALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE,
RAINS, BRUISES, BURNS. SCALDS, &o., and
ticen internally cures DIARRHCE A, DYSENTERY,
RAMPS, COLIC, and all other internal aches
nd pains.
thrice, 2/- Sold Everywhere.
C. E. MOULTON, sole proprietor.
HELBOUENE -A-HSTID
PAINT
V-
fet-IRAOt mark
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT—This favourite hrana
of Stout selected with great care from the
best of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
cannot be excelled. To be procured everywhere.
CATTELL & CO., Sole Agents.
W. Howard Smith and Sons,
STRUTH’S WHARF and NEW WHARF
(Foot of King Street).
Offices: 43 KING STREET.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE. MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Bunlnyong
Barrabool
♦Burwah
Cheviot
Derwent
Edina
♦Gabo..
W. HOWARD SMITH and SONS,
42 King Street, Sydney.
Emil Paterson,
ARCHITECT AND CIVIL ENGINEER.
NO. 4 PITT STREET.
TJptists
•fi COLLEGE STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
ARTIFICAL TEETH on the mostapproved Eng-
Ish Principles, Fitted Pal
tlon, Natural Appearance
llsh Principles, Fitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastica-
nce, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping, Scaling, and Extractions skilfully
performed.
Bad Legs, Constitutional
Diseases, &c.
MEDICATED VAPOUR BATHS.
For those diseases where nexioue drugs adminis-
tered through the stomach impair the constitution
of the unhappy recipient, and In many cases fall to
cure,
FACTS ARB STUBBORN THINGS.
H. W. COOPER eradicates the most inveterate
oases of disease, without medicine Internally, in
less than a sixth of the time required for success
by any other treatment.
Relief from Rheumatic Pains.
To Mr. Cooper,—I can scarcely find words to
thank you for the remarkable cure you have
effected in my case. I have suffered with bad legs
tor over 10 years ; I have tried many doctors, and
taken everything advertised to cure, but I grew
worse, and sick of trying. My age is over 00.1 am
very stout, and, keeping a shop, am compelled to
walkabout. My friends advised me to go to you.
[ now wish I had gone at first —I should not have
suffered so long, and it would have been pounds in
my pocket. My legs are both healed up, and I am
quite well. If anyone doubts the genuineness of
your treatment, let them come to me, or any of
my friends who knew how I suffered. I may add
I Improved fast from the first day I visited you.
t Mrs. Black,
August 4th, 1883. 317 Blizabeth-stroet.
To Mr. Cooper.—I wish to make known the bene-
fit of your treatment in my ease. I had bad legs
for twe years, and could get no relief anywhere ;
you cured them in less than a month.
R. T. Eastway (Bastway Brothers!,
George-street.
H. W. C. has voluntary testimony that would fill
a newspaper, and he has not been in the colony
twelve months.
340 CROWN STREET, opposite Reservoir,
THE “ QUNDAGAI HERALD,” Pastoral
Gazette and Farmers’ Chronicle, with which
is incorporated the “ Temora Herald and Mining
Journal,” will be published in Gundagal on or
before 1st September next, conducted on the most
liberal principles, in the interests of the Squatters,
Farmers, and Miners of that most important dis-
trict. As the “Herald” will start with a largs
amount of patronage, it will offer to advertisers
every facility tor spreading far and wide their
business notices. The “ Herald ” will freely circu-
late through the districts of Jugiong. Adelong,
Cumut, Cootaraundra, Bethungra, Murrumburrah,
Muttama, Coolac, &c., &c. The “ Gundagai Hsrald”
will be published every Wednesday and Saturday.
W. H. L. BAILEY,
Proprietor.
Robert butcher & co ;
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
“WHAT IS A SECRET?”
SOMETHING told to everybody in a whisper.
Please tell all your friends this Secret, that
they will study both “Comfort and Economy” in
having their supply of WOOD and COAL from
notting & CO.,
COAL AND FUEL MERCHANTS,
Cowper’s Wharf,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO BAY.
pw- the NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £100,000.
Allow Interest as follows phmt
>n fixed deposits for 12 months: FIVE PER CBN1.
md UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £60 in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
315 George Street.
A few of our undertakings MOST SUCCESS
FULLY carried out, among which will be found
the LARGEST, MOST DIFFICULT, and MOST
RESPONSIBLE events that have taken place since
the opening of this establishment.
His Worship the MAYOR’S PICNIC, for 450, at
Cion tar f.
His Worship the MAYOR’S BALL, for 1600, Exhl-
118 n orsmp ™ u .v. —r"’ ——
bltion Building, at which his John
Harris, entertained their £v H ‘nr^
BERT and GEORGE, EARL CLAN WILLIAM,
Ulhcvl ttuu vjisvuuij, ,
arid the Officers of the Detached Squadron.
MASONIC BALL. English Constitution, for 1262,
Exhibition Building.
MASONIC BALL, N.8.W, Constitution, at Town
Hall, Sydney.
Visit of their R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Llthgow Valley Mines and Zigzag.
Dinner d la Rnstte, for 60, in Government Palace
Dining Car while travelling.
Government Refreshment to15,000 SCHOOL CHIL-
DREN—re Queen’s Statue Demonstration—under
VERY SHORT NOTICE, only receiving the
order at 2.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot at LiM
p.m. the following day.
Visit of THEIR R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Captain Cook’s Landing, south side
r>f Rntj»nv Rav Picnic luncheon and refresb-
under VERY SHORT NOTICE, re-
wiving order at p.m., to be ready on the spot
at 1 p.m. following day.
The LADY MAYORESS’ RECEPTIONS, Town
Hall.
The UNION CLUB BACHELOR’S BALL, at Exnl-
bltion Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE WINDBYBR.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE INNES.
Dinner A la Russe at St. Paul’s College, for 150 Mem*
bers of the CBURCH OF BNGLANb STNOD.
Dinner A la Russe to the INTERCOLONIAL RIF1 B
TEAMS, Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at HAWKEB
BURY RACES, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at BAND-
WICK RACES, in Grand Stand.
The CONSULAR DINNER, in our new Banquet
Boom.
ARMIDALE RAILWAY Demonstrations. Ban
qimt for 400: MAYOR’S BALL, 600, same evening
and CITIZEN’S BALL, 600, the following even-
ing.
ALBURY-WODONGA RAILWAY DEMONSTRA-
TION —Grand Government Banquet for 1016
at Albury. Grand Ball, 800, following night.
Children’s feast, 1184, the following afternoon
and evening. Also, Breakfasts, leas,
and Suppers, in Government Dining Oar, to
Hia Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus, the
Ministry, and Ms.P., while travelling to and
from Banquet, to., &o.
Numerous Banquets and Entertainments by HIS
WORSHIP THE MAYOR at Town Hall, &o.
Numerous Dinners A to Rwwe in the N.8.Y
Government palace
travelling by rail, on account of the GOVERN
MBNT.
Together with a numerous lot of Private Dinners.
Feasts, Weddings, Garden Parties, Balls. Tea
Meetings Land Sales, Suppers, Picnics, Flshlnp
Excursions, &o.
CADET EXAMINATION. SURVEY OFFICE.
IT is hereby notified that an Examination of
Candidates for Employment as Cadets in the
Department of the Surveyor-General will be held
early In November next. The exact date, when
fixed, will be duly notified. Candidates must have
attained the age of 16 years, or they will not be
eligible for examination. ...
Intending competitors can obtain further In-
formation upon applying by letter t<> the Surveyor-
General, or personally to the secretary and
Ca * hl6r ’ (Signed) P. F. ADAMS,
Surveyor-General.
Surveyor-General’s Office,
Sydney, 22nd June, 1883.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
308 GEORGE STREET.
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD S
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
8CH N A P P 8.
LITHUANIAN
MAGBN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
‘ MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO,
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
israinat ig’iioranco, and scienco wins ; therefore,
u’gvnise, organise at once, so that everyone can
efoke a deeent Tobacco like the lavounte LION
POBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
vith a moderate price.
HEYDE, TODMAN & CO.,
YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
WOOL SALES, 1883.
MY very numerous constituents, and all in-
terested in the wool trade, will please take
notice that my unrivalled
NEW WAREHOUSE
AT
Darling Harbour Railway Terminus
Will be BEADY FOR THIS SEASON, and that I
rihall be prepared to do the fullest justice to the
LARGEST as well as the SMALLEST Clips.
Each lot will be carefully Weighed and Valued
as soon as received, weights and valuations being
submitted to owners so as to hear from them be-
fore sale if necessary.
Owing, now, to the attendance of Foreign
Buyers, our market is equal to the London Market
—a point well worth remembering. Any Bank or
Firm holding: liens on wool will, if asked, allow
owners to send their wool to me ; and any lor-
warding Agents, or Managers of Railways or
Steam Companies, will receive and forward Wool
or other Produce on my account, and pay carnage
or other expenses.
ALL PROCEEDS OF SALE will be available, as
heretofore, at ANY TIME after sales ; or AD-
VANCES, small or large, made before sales are
effected.
SALES of LIVE STOCK, TALLOW, HIDES.
GRAIN. SUGAR, and every sort of Produce will
also meet with the greatest possible care.
JOHN BRIDGE.
The Treasury. New South Wales,
21st August, 1883.
ANNUAL CONTRACTS FOB THE PUBLIC
SERVICE.
TENDERS will be received at this Office until
noon of THURSDAY, the Oth proximo, for
the following supplies for the Public Service
during the year 1884, namely :
1. DRAWING AND TRACING PAPERS,
2 SURVEYOR’S AND ARCHITECT’S MA-
TERIALS.
Samples can be seen and information obtained
at the Government Stores, Blizabeth-street North.
Forms of tender may be obtained at the
Treasury.
No tender will be entertained unless accom-
panied by a certificate from two responsible per-
sons stating that they are willing to become bound
as sureties in a sum specified in the conditions of
the particular contract for the due fulfilment
thereof. .
The necessary stamp duty (i .e. one shilling upon
accepted tenders, and one pound upon bonds) must
in every instance be borne by the Contractor.
In the case of the accepted tenders, the con-
tractors and their sureties must severally call at
the Treasury to execute and deliver the bonds
within fourteen days after date of acceptance,
falling which the contracts may either be ad-
vertised anew, or other tenders accepted.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily se-
conders to bo addressed to the Under Secretary
for Finance and Trade, and endorsed ‘ Tender for
. 1884.” as the case may require.
, usd, ao GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
24th August, I 883 -
:0 CONTRACTORS, BUILDERS, AND OTHERS.
Erection of Jet Condenser to Dessicatxng
Machines, Glebe Island Abattoirs.
rENDBRS will be received at the Treasury until
noon of Thursday, the 6th proximo, lor the
Erection of a Jet Condenser, and connecting same
vith the Steam-engine and Dessicating plant,
Hebe Island, in accordance with the specification,
ind under general conditions, to be seen at the
)(flce of the Superintending Officer at the Island.
Each tender must state the amount for which
he tenderer will carry out the work, and must be
iccompanied by a deposit receipt, acknowledging
he payment of £10 into the Treasury, as a guaran-
ee for the due and efficient performance of the
’‘refers must be addressed to ‘‘ The Under-Socre-
iry for Finance and Trade,” K J,'®^
Globe
iry tor F inance aim n»uc, ,
'reasury, Macquarie-street, and should be endorsed
Tender for Erection of Jet Condenser,
sland.”
GEORGE B. DIBBS.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a Special
MEETING of the Metropolitan Licensing
Court will be holden at noon on THURSDAY, the
13th day of September, 1883, at the Water Police
Court, Phillip and Albert Streets, Sydney.
P. C. LUCAS, C.P.8.
James Carroll,
i'REE SELECTORS’ & MINERS’ LAND
AGENT,
WENTWORTH HOUSE, CHURCH HILL,
SYDNEY.
MOUSTACHE AND WHISKERS.
Hoyd* Beard KMsir did this, and will do it
on either bald head or bare face. Force*
heavy Moustache ip from'2 to 4 week* and
never falls. -0.000 young men already wear
full board, .having used I. to 3 No
injury, 'easily applied, eertdip irveffect.
Packet* 1*. 6d. each',Sfor’3*.*6d., post paid,
sent under cover,free frpm observation. Address,Frank Douglas,
Sole Agent, Box 73o. O.P.O.* Sydney* N.-S.W.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH on Gold, Vulcanite, &c„
made on the latest American principles ;
easy fit, defying detection. MARSHALL BROS.,
Surgeon Dentists, 106 Market-street, near Hyde
Park All dental operations performed with skill
Painless extractions. Teeth stopped. Charges
strictly moderate.
MAMLSOrS MEL,
THE FAVOURITE HOTEL IN GOULBUBN.
P
JUBLIC NOTICE.
J, TURNER ROBINSON k CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 482 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
Oil. TWO DOORS NORTH OF OLD SHW-


READ IT ALL.
It may Save your Life.
hop bitters
ARB
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops lliiclin, Mandrake, and Dandelion.
“ The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and in addition contain all the best
‘and most effective curative properties
‘ of all other bitters, being: the greatest
‘ Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
‘and life and health restoring agent on
‘ earth.”
They Give Mew Life and Vigour to the Awed
and Intlnil.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
‘ Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all those
'whose sedentary employments cause
‘irregularities of the Blood, Stomach
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
‘ Appetizer, Tonie, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are invaluable, being
‘highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
‘ without intoxicating."
“No matter what your feelings or
‘ symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
* wait until you are sick, but if you only
* feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun-
* dreds have been saved by so doing, at
‘ a trifling cost.”
Ask yarn* Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
‘ friends suffer, but use and urge them to
* use Hop Bitters.”
“ Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
‘drugged, drunken nostrum, but the
‘ purest and best Medicine ever made,
‘and no person or family should be
‘ without it.”
HOP DITTKHS MANUFACTURING CO.,
Melbourne, Australia, Rochester, N. Y., U. S
A., Toronto, London, Antwerp, Paris.
GRAHAM
TiilLOE,
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment,
648, late 531, Oeorge-street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,—I respectfully beg leave to bring
under your notice the superior stylo and fit of our
Trousers, which are cut on the same unerring
principles as those which have made the name ot
Hill, Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion in the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either in sitting, riding,
or walking : require neither footstraps nor braces,
full smoothly over the boot, and maintain their
position in every attitude of the body.
They are designed to fit the corpulent as well a*
the slight figure, and are engaged to give to all the
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial will suffice to establish their claim
on your patronage.
I am, Sir,
Your obedient Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM.
Sent post free for Is. stamps to deJray postage.
“TRUTH,”
A TREATISE showing the under-surface evil
of society that cause Impediments to Mat
riage ; Celibacy ; Woman ; Advice to those abou
to Marry. Also, the Injury caused by the use o
Tobacco and Alcohol; How to Regain and Preaorv
your Health ; &c. &c. Address
R. T. SELBY, M.H.,
DEVONSHIRE ST., SURRY HILLS, SYDNEY.
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION,
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT, WEAK-
NESS, &i.
PRICE 2s. 0d.
Prepared by A. G. KEBBLEWHITE, Chemist, fco.
43 BR8KINE STREET,
by W. H. SO VL, and all Chemist*.
Great seizer: The sheriff.
Never fight with a man who calls you a
liar. Find out whether he has told the truth or
not. If he has, acknowledge the accusation, and
if he has not, move to another neighbourhood.
Mr. DeCourcy Biowne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New Sooth
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 1U6 Pitt-street, Sydney
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Departments undertaken. Titles a
special ity.—A pvt.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief;
a small bottle often cures. Ask for
and get it; spurious imitations are sometimes
offered.
Nowhere perhaps has the dentist’s art obtained
such high excellence as in Sydney. Certainly we
are in no sense behind aqy other city. Visitors to
Sydney might, to test this, visit the establishment
of Messrs. Adolphe Gabriel and Company. 18 Wyn-
yard Square, two doors from Pfahlert s Hotel
Here the manufacture of every essential in the
Srofession is carried on. At the rear of the surgery
i a compact little factory where all the requisites
for supplying every dental defect in the human
mouth are made. Messrs. Gabriel and Co. (whose
only address is as above) are always pleased to
show their specimens of artificial teeth to those
Interested. There being two firms of the same
name in the Square, patients will oblige by paying
particular attention to the Christian namejAdolphe,
and the number, IS, two doors from Pfahlert’s
Hotel.— A*>VI.
THE REFEREE.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general.']
RACING.
Cootamundra ..• • • ■ • • • • ••••••• September 1, 4, 6, 8.
ilhnretJC.. ; September 13,14.
Hubert Gold Fields J.C September 19, 30.
wr,rthpm J.C September 19, 31.
u«namt T and H.C September 81,33.
nnhho l C September 21. 33.
Goulburn T C. September 36 38.
*jqrrabri J.C October 3, 4.
Esnev Turf Club October 6.
Victoria Amateur T.C October $ m
wvainric-onir T.C October 17,18.
Victoria R.C. Spring November 3,6,8.10.
Psvnterbury (N.Z.) J.C November 6, 7, 8.
Parramatta J.C November 9.
Clarence River J.C. (Amateur). November 9.
Murrumbidgee T.C November 21, 33, 33.
Narandera J.C November 39, 30.
Liverpool J. C December 23.
Svdney TC January 36.
Tasmanian R.C. (Summer) February 13, 14,15.
AQUATICS
M R.C. Annual Regatta • ■ •.. September 29.
Sydney Amateur Canvas Dingy Club (Formal
By Opening Season) September.
Green (S.A.) v. Wood (Vic.), at Melbourne..Sept. 39
New South Wale* Association Regatta October 6.
Double Bay Regatta . October —.
Svdnev Amateur Canvas Dingy Club 1st Class
y Race October 13.
Balmain Regatta .November 9.
Krug Champagne Cup . • •• November .
ATHLETICS.
T Malone v. J. Aplltt, 150yds.. Botany . . .Sept. 5.
B Murphy v. W. Franks, mile walk.. .September C.
Eastern Suburbs Amateur Athletic Club. . Sept. 15.
Svdnev Amateur Athletic Club September 22.
Wallsend Athletic Club Meeting November 9.
PIGEON SHOOTING.
Wagga Handicap September 14.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Sullivan evidently thinks that knocking
out in four acts is too slow. He now claims that
when he meets Ryan he will knock him out in one
round.
William Sheriff, alias “Prussian,” the
English pug, arrived in America on July 5, and at
once challenged any middle-weight (Mitchell pre-
ferred) with knuckles or gloves for £300 aside or
more.
The footballing visitors to Bananaland
on Thursday last brought their list of matches to a
successful conclusion, beating all Queensland by
13 points to nil. The Camerons both played in
grand form, C. of th t ilk dropped a goal, and E.
dropped a goal and obtained a try, which was
kicked by Raper.
Professor Miller remarks that many men,
who at one time or other indulged in regular ex-
ercise and afterwards altogether abandoned it, are
very liable to apoplexy. Moral Never stop
training suddenly. If you And training for a
pewter pot at “bike” contests interferes with your
business, give up the—business.
J. M. Clifford, Charles Swan, and John
Rayner have letters in the Melbourne Sportsman,
from which it would appear they are all long-
distance champions, and each eager to worry the
sawdust. No doubt; but it remains to be seen if
the public will further be gulled by these brutal
exhibitions—at all events, so soon after the revela-
tions in re the Edwards-O’Leary affair.
In fair play England, during a cricket
match between Carlton and Meadows United, in
Nottinghamshire, the umpire was assaulted by the
lookers-on. One of tne assailants was fined two
guineas and costs. It was also in fair-play Eng-
land, and not in Australia, that the crowd smashed
Molineaux the Black’s hands, when he had Tom
Cribb across the ropes, beaten.
A patent has been taken out in America
fora single-wheel trap, to be called the Unicycle
Buggy. It consists of a wheel which will be
attached to a horse by means of a pair of buggy
shafts carrying at the other end a buggy
seat. The inventor claims that, by means
of his new contrivance, absolute safety in driving
is secured, as the wheel can only tip or turn over
in case the horse does the same thing.
“Maud S,” Mr. Vanderbilt’s wonderful
mare, which can trot a mile in two minutes and a
ridiculously small fraction of moments, shows no
sign of losing her phenomenal speed, and her owner
is besieged with offers to purchase her. Captain
Stone put all former would-be-purchasers out of
running by offering the sensational price of £40,000.
But Mr. Vanderbilt was not to be tempted, and he
is still the owner of the fastest trotter in the world.
The greatest knock the prize-riug has ever
received was delivered at the recent assizes in Wor-
cester (Eng.), when the presiding Judge sentenced
two prize-rtghters to two months’ imprisonment
with hard labour, and, what is more serious, abso-
lutely gave seven or eight onlookers one month’s
hard labour tor aiding and abetting. We are afraid
this sort of thing will sicken the most ardent would-
be prize-ring restorers.
Thus an exchange:—“ Hanlan, I hear, is
likely to leave Toronto, and if so, he will settle
down at Chicago. For some reason or other he
appears to have lost his popularity in the Dominion,
as his license has been refused for his hotel, and
this though the Toronto Rowing Club petitioned
the commissioners on his behalf. Before we put
any money on Mr. Hanlan, we’ll find out why his
licei se was refused. The Australian public has
hitherto always believed him to be a “ perfect
gentleman. ’
At Chignell’s School, Dover, Eng., eleven
fathers and a like number of sons played a cricket
match. Mr. Cecil Chapman was captain of the
fathers, among whom were Lord Dalkeith, Mr.
Foljambe, M.P.; Mr. H. Brassey, M.P.; Mr. Cecil
Forester, M.P.; Mr. Thesiger, Sir Penistoun Mil-
banke, and Messrs. Fletcher, Robarts, Campion,
and Ernest Chaplin. The boys made 130, and got
the fathers out for 139. The second innings was
not finished, but the boys had every chance of
winning in the end.
The Hon. A. Lyttelton and Mr. Heathcote
met at Lord’s, England, to play for a Gold Challenge
Prize, which is the emblem of the Lawn-tennis
championship. After having held it since its in-
stitution—a period of sixteen years—Mr. Heath-
cote, although frequently meeting such players as
Mr. R. D. Walker in the course of the various com-
petitions, was last year beaten, for the first time, by
Mr. Lyttelton. He has since then spared no pains to
regain the lost honours, and this year defeated his
more youthful opponent by three setts to none.
The old adage of biting ones nose off, &c.,
was exemplified ny the “ Books,” in banding to-
gether not to put in an appearance at the Hawkes-
bury. Backers seemed plentiful on the course,
and the racing all through was in favour of the
layers of odds. On Friday evening the owner of
First Demon, the winner of the Handicap, was
chivvied by a bookmaker into taking a wager of
£500 to £10 about his horse. Owing to the outside
show the Demon had for the race, there was some
difficulty in obtaining a mount for him, and at the
last moment one of the stable boys was put up.
The lad rode and won the race like a tradesman.
Pastime, the new London sporting jour-
nal, says; “W. G. George has resigned his life-
membersiup of the Moseley Hamers. The reason,
we believe, was the refusal of that club to send
him to America to again compete with Myers,
this time at distances which would render the
Manhattan man’s victory certain.” By the way,
George was “off colour” at the Lillie Bridge
championship sports. He ran second to Snook in
the mile and four miles. Myers, the American
champion—we feel inclined to say ex-champion—
is also on the downward tendency, as he was
beaten by Brooks for the 230 yards championship,
in New York, on 2nd June; time, 33 4-5 secs.
The committee of the Sydney Bicycle Club
evidently find it “hard to part” with their cham-
pionship trophies, judging from the Lee fiasco and
the style in which they are treating the winner of
the ten miles at their late sports. In the latter case,
they have refused to hand over the cup to Bennett,
pending enquiries made in regard to the English-
man’s bona lUles as an amateur, although two
wealthy gentlemen have offered to go security for
the value of the trophy. They are now trying to
pass a rule that the winner is a professional, for
having advertised that orders would be received
ror machines similar to that he rode. Let them pass
such a rule, by all means; but it looks bad to try
and make it retrospective, after accepting Ben-
nett’s entry. Bicycling is, without doubt, next to
horse-r cing, the prettiest and most exciting sport
we have, and it seems a pity that the manage-
ment of the senior club should be in such un-
sportsmanlike hands.
London Truth, in a sketch of the English
cricketer W. H. Hornby, is responsible for the
following“It is on record that on that auspicious
occasion (Hornby’s fir. tshow at Lord’s) his weight,
bat and all, was Just six stone, while in inches hj
measured only four feet and a half. Yet his
prowess was not contemptible, for he went in first
and scored 37 runs—he and his partner compiling
62 before they were separated.” It further says:—
“In the remarkable match against the Australians,
however, at the Oval last year, ho fell a victim to
the epidemic of nervousness which set in at a
critical moment, and which resulted in the loss of
that important contest.”
If England boasts about fair play
To all who ever meet|her,
Why not her gruel take and say
Australians fairly beat her ?
The Hawkesbury Race Club had threaten-
ing weather for the opening day of their Spring
meeting on Thursday last. The saddling paddock
was quieter than usual, owing to the absence of
half a hundred of the “ books,” who pledged
themselves not to attend the meeting, in conse-
quence of the Club having decided to charge £6
for the privilege of betting in the paddock. In the
Hurdle Race, Schemer came at the finish and de-
feated Dundreary by a head, War Eagle two or three
lengths away, third. The Public Auction Stakes
fell to Emulation, half a length away from Rosi-
nante, Brisbane third. The Hawkesbury Guineas
fell an easy victory to Kingsdale; First Demon, a
length away, second; Kaipara third. Velox d -
feated Soldier Boy by a head for the County Purse,
Ascot third; and Bristol easily beat Sir Robert in
the Malden Plate, Muriel third. On the second
day, the weather was good, and the attendance
very large. Le Grand beat Kingsdale on the post
for the Mares’ Produce Stakes, Kaipara third.
Eighteen put in an appearance for the Grand
Handicap, which was won by the unthought-of
First Demon, two lengths away from Sardonyx,
and Despot was beaten by a length for second
place. The Two-year-old Stakes resulted in an
easy win for Honeydew, Parapluie second, Gipsy’s
Warning third. Soldier Boy appropriated the
Members’ Handicap, Bristol second, Ascot third.
The Disposal Stakes fell to Minorca, Rosebud
second, Envy third; and Norman won the last race
of the meeting, the Ladies’ Bracelet, by a bare
head from Soldier Boy, Raven third.
A most brutal “purring” or kicking match
came off at Philadelphia, U.S., on July 13, between
McTevish and Grabby, two well-known “ purrers”
At 1.30 o’clock the men began to get ready. Each
was provided with knee breeches, undershirts and
shoulder straps and elbow tugs, like those used in
collar-and-elbow wrestling. MoTevish’s clogs
were hob-nailed, with pointed toes, and fastened
with leathern thongs. Grabby’s footgear was
almost similar, excepting that the toes of his clogs
turned up a trifle more, and were, if anything, a
little sharper. At two o’clock, the men having
submitted their feet for Inspection, to show that
there were no protruding nails, James gave the
word to “ purr I” Grabby advanced cautiously
and grasped the shoulder straps, and then began
the most brutal and savage contest that two men
could engage in. For fully live minutes they
sparred with their feet in a manner that was simply
wonderful. Blows were countered and returned
with the same skill and rapidity as shown by men
fly hting with their lists. Not once In that time did
either man more than touch his opponent,'sskin.
Then McTevish, taking a firmer hold on his
opponent’s collar, lifted his left foot, and, after
keeping it poised for a moment, made a straight
“toe kick” for his opponent’s knee. Grabby
deftly avoided the blow by straddling his legs far
apart, and then, with almost inconceivable quick-
ness, brought his left foot around and caught
McTevish on the outside of the right calf. The
flesh was laid open almost to the bone, and the
blood spurted out in streams. McTevish never
uttered a word. At the same instant that his own
leg was cut, he gave Grabby what is known as a
“sole scrape.” Beginning at the instep and ending
just below the knee-pan, Grabby’s left shin was
scraped almost clear of skin. At this juncture a
young man pushed his way to the side of the two
men, and made a savage scratch at Grabby’s
face. I he whole thing was done so quickly
that the spectators were spellbound with
astonishment. The referee rushed forward
and seized the young man by the throat. This
action caused the visitor's hat to tall off, and down
over his shoulders streamed a woman’s long hair.
“ By Jove !” exclaimed Grabby, giving one look,
*• it s my wife.” “ Yes,” replied the little woman
pluckily, so well disguised, “ and for tuppence I’d
’ave the ’ole lot of you taken in charge.” Grabby
then walked off as quiet as a lamb.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
The Victoria Coursing Club concludad
their last meet of the season on Thursday last.
Proserpine and Farderougha divided for the
Tasmanian Plate. Queen Bee, Mail Boy, and
Nemo “went whacks” in the Vice-President’s
Plate; and Dutch Oven beat Goorac in the deci-
ding course of the Ladies’ Bracelet Forty-three
horses have accepted for the New Zealand Cup out
of the 66 engaged. Both the Australians, Lord
Burghley and Jessie, are missing from the list.
The Canterbury Cup of £600 sovs. (weight for age)
has attracted 35 nominations, among them being
the Tim Whittier horse Theuge, who was recently
imported to Dunedin from Australia Corrigan
was so pleased with King’s efforts to keep Khesus
from jumping upon him in the V.A.T.C. Hurdle
Race that he presented him with a sapphire ring...
Lawn tennis is likely to find a dangerous rival in
lawn skittles... Captain Cotton has been proposed
as handicapper for the whole of New Zealand. H1b
maiden effort was the Christchurch Hunt Club
meeting... Another phenomenal Hcull-errived \aat
week—Mrs. Elias Laycock of a son. And now
Elias rows round the feeding 1 “ Bottle and Class”
at 2 a.m. in the shortest time on record B. M‘Ter-
non, of Micalago, and J. T. Fryer run in a month
for £60 aside—Thomas Sutton (18 years of age)
and Joseph Thomas, ran 150 yards for £100 at
Hamilton, on ISth August. Sutton won as he liked
by some 8 yards.
t * •
At the Boston (U.S.) Regatta, on July 4,
G. VV. Lee won the Single Sculls, 3 miles with a
turn, in 30m, oOsec., McKay second, Elliott third,
Plaisted nowhere. Lee and McKay won the Double
Sculls, same course, in 31ra. The attempt
of N. T, Collinge, the English swimmer, to swim
down the Hudson River from Albany to New
York was not successful. He entered the water at
3 a.m. July 3, and after battling with angry waves
and adverse winds until the 5th, ho was compelled
to abandon the attempt, being physically ex-
hausted. He had been in the water in alt about
34 hours, and when he left the water for good he
was about fifty miles from the spot at which he
started The presence of Hanlan, Hosmer, Lee,
Plaisted and Teemer, at the regatta held at Lake
Minnetonka, near Minneapolis, Minn., Aug. 3, 3, 4,
was assured by a contribution of £1000 by the in-
habitants of that place.... The Cornell shell used in
the Lake George (U.S.) regatta weighed but 100
pounds, being the lightest four-oared boat ever
built by Waters & Co., the American builders
Harry Maynard has made a match that Mitchell
will not knock him out in four rounds, Marquis of
Queensberry rules — The great horse show at
Islington this year was above the average. The
Earl of Shrewsbury paid John Robinson £3000 for
a team of four coach horses, but they were horses.
— The English horse George Frederick's covering
fee for the season of 1884 is lOOgs... .Old Parole is
still racing in America, but is steadily losing his
old form — The added money alone at Ascot
amounted to £15,000... .The Sociable record for the
34 hours has been beaten by Mr. John Hawkins,
jun., and a man in his employ, they having ridden
163 miles in 3346 hours The nett receipts of the
Grand Prix day at Long Champs, France, amounted
as gate-money to £13,333 10s. exceeding by
£1300 the takings of last year At the
regatta held at Lowell, U.S., on 4th July,
Hanlan, as per usual, won the All Comers’ race,
Hosmer second. The champion stopped during
the race and took a drink out of the river M. J.
Lowndes, amateur, on June 31, at the Surbiton Re-
creation Grounds, Loudon, Eng., essayed the task
of beating all existing tricycle records for from
one to ten miles. The result was that a new series
of records was created. One mile, 3 min. 5 sec.;
two miles, 6 min. 37 sec ; three miles, 9 min 45 sec.;
four miles, 13 min. 3 sec.; live miles 16 min. 19 sec.;
six miles, 19 min. 35 sec.; seven miles, 33 min. 54
sec.; eight miles. 36 min. 9 sec.; nine miles, 39 min.
33 sec.; ten miles, 33 min. 33 3-5 sec. The best
previous r cords were: One mile, 3 rain. 11 sec.;
hve miles, 16 min. 3446 sec.; ten miles,34min.3 see.
By cable we learn that Largan was de-
feated by Bubear In their sculling match over
the Thames Champion Course, on August 30th
A. W. Higham won the 30-mile bicycle race with
John S. Prince, at Rochester N.Y., July 9. His
time was given as Ih. 9mln. 57-M sec.... The London
Sportsman says that F. Motley is very unwell
again, and is not likely to be seen on a cricket
field any more this season. ..Hart, the U.S. repre-
sentative in the walking race at the Amateur
Athletic Championship sports at Lillie Bridge,
England, was disqualified for “lifting.” At
East Saginaw, Micnegan (U.8.), it is alleged, on
July 7, Buffalo Girl trotted a mile in 3min, I4seo....
It is stated that Little Jack has been sold to a
French planter at Mauritius for between £700 and
£800— Mace and Slade left England for the States
on June 30, to prepare for the Slado-Mitchell fight,
which is to come off on the 14th September
Mr. Johnson, of Christlansund, recently crossed
the German Ocean, from Dronthein, Norway, to
London Bridge, in a cockle-shell of a boat, 34
feet long, 546 feet beam, and 3 feet deep, with
a freeboard ainldshlp of only 8 inches. He
covered over a thousand miles of the briny
At Blackburn, Eng., E. Booth and J. Fletcher de-
cided their match at “burly” hop, one hop, two
strides, hop, two strides, and jump, for £10, the
former winning by four Inches at 33 yd, 30 in
J. A. Roberts's American trotting stallion Pioneer
has arrived by the San Francisco mail steamer. He
is by Cassius M. Clay, jun., from Ellen M„ by
Almont: first-class, oven in America The Eng-
lish horse, Tristan, has become a terrible savage,
and it Is with the greatest diiHculty that Fordham
can be induced to ride him. As he was being ac-
companied on to the heath recently by a stable
companion named Gratin, he turned round and
savaged the latter, and tried to pull the boy
from his back. He managed to lame Gratin,
but the boy escaped with a shaking
After “ standing down ” for three weeks, Fordham
made his re-appearance in the saddle on July 7, at
Newmarket, where he rode twenty-seven times
and secured eleven wins. He still stands third In
the winning list, which is headed by F. Archer,
with a total of 88, C. Wood second 83, Fordham 53.
John L. Sullivan, the “knocker-out," and
Austin Daily are matched to run one hundred and
fifty yards, for two hundred dollars, at Brockton,
U.S The Dowager Duchess of Montrose will not
continue her racing partnership with Lord Arling-
ton and Sir Frederick Johnstone during the next
season. Her Grace, who now owns all the late Mr.
Crawfurd’s horses, will conduct business on her
own account, under the name of Mr. Manton
The female six-day race at Kernan’s summer gar-
den, Baltimore, Md., ended June 16, with the
following scoreMadame Tobias, 310 miles; Carrie
Anderson, 305 miles ; May Massicotte, 301 miles :
Laura Douglas, 310 miles; Nellie Wortley, 303
miles; Laura Mabel, 303 miles. Only those who
covered 300 miles received any share of the gate
receipts “Tip” O’Brien and Bob Tey fought at
Poughkeepsie, N.Y., July 1; 19 rounds were got
through in Hi. 30m. O’Brien ultimately knocking
Tey senseless ...In the mixed wrestling match
between 11. M. Dufur and Flagg, for £50 and
champion belt, at Bradford, Vt., on July 4, Flagg
was the winner, securing the second, fourth, and
fifth falls, and Dufur the first and third.
THE FALL OF EDWARD.
Trickett beat Beach,
And Beach beat Trickett;
Boating’s the game.
For cash, you can’t lick it.
Oh, Edward I Oh, Edward!
It is with much pain
We suggest you should go
To the quarry again.
You and the rest
Are a comical crew,
You’ve beaten all them
And they’ve all beaten you.
You will never beat Beach,
Until the time be
When oranges grow
On a curly gum tree.
Oh, Ted, once a good ’un,
You’re done now, ’tls plain:
And we weep while we whisper
“ To the quarry again!”


URNITURE SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
HALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS, and
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
LIBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb, Furniture Importers, Spring and
O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
NOVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
AFTERNOON TEA TABLES, elegant and inex-
pensive. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell-street.
MARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
BILLIARD TABLES, full size, with appurten-
ances ; also smaller Convertible Tables, 7 and
8 feet—may be used as dining tables. Now on view.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, Importers, Spring
and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at lowest prices. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Importers,
O ’ Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Eight-pound bedroom suiTES.-The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY,
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 30s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 00s; open Book-
cases, fram 35s; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from 10s 6d: Tables, from 7s 6d; Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 30s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 25s; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s: Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
85s
BRADLEY,*
NEWTON,
and LAMB,
SYDNEY.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Mack and Gold, with Side
Shelves. 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
FURNITURE.— 'fhe Largest Stock in the
Colony. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell-street.
TT^RAWING-ROOM CABINETS—Early English,
I 9 Anglo-Japanese, and Chippendale designs.
Just opened. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
streets. __
Dining-room furniture. —Magnificent
Suites in Walnut, Oak, and Mahogany. Side-
boards, Dinner Waggons, &c., to match. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O’Connell streets.
RA MB WORK for DRAWING and DINING
ROOM FURNITURE, Handsome and Massive,
in Oak, Walnut and Mahogany. The VERY BEST
REAL MOROCCO SKINS, and Materials for up-
holstery. Open to inspection. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB.
BEDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest x’ates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Oon-
nell-street.
WASHSTANDS, with marble. 25s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS and Verandah Chairs.—Brad-
ley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
ENTWOOD FURNITURE—A very complete
Assortment just opened; many quite new,
designs.
Occasional chairs in very great
Variety, Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c., Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
FFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs. Stools, Desks, &c., Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb, O’Connell-street. .
ICE CHESTS, all sizes, very superior make. Ex-
amine before purchasing. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
IRON SAFES, various sizes. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
TEINWAYNBWYORK PIANOS, the FINEST
in the world. A SHIPMENT just landed.
OQ GUINEA PIANO, WARRANTED sound
and durable, in solid walnut case; specially
adapted for beginners or schools. _
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
rs/YGUmEA PIANO, brilliant toned, full com-
pass, all the latest improvements, in hand-
wme walnut case ; WARRANTED SOUND and
DURABLE ; BEST VALUE in the trade.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
T IPP’S CELEBRATED PIANOS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB
have received
another LARGE SHIPMENT
R, LIPP and SONS’ celebrated PIANOFORTES
direct from the Makers, comprising 'TALIi
GRANDS, LITTLE UPRIGHT GRANDS, SA-
LOON GRANDS, VERY HANDSOME and of the
HIGHEST CLASS FINISH,
in
WALNUT and BLACK GOLD.
VT WE HAVE NOW THE LARGEST STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA OP
LIPP’S PIANOS
TO SELECT FROM.
WE INVITE INSPECTION. „ , _ _
PGR PRIVATE SALE AT EXTREMELY LOW
PRICES.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Pianoforte Importers,
O’Connell and Spring streets.
SOCIAL.
Young people often say chaperones aie a
bother; and they think it even a great deal oftener
than they say so. Of course there are numberless
reasons to be urged both for and against chaperon-
age, One will say it’s a very poor compliment to
a girl to insinuate that she can't be trusted to
behave unless some elderly female is with her to
watch. On the other side, it is urged that a girl s
reputation is too delicate a thing to be submitted
to even the risk of suspicion. What, alone with a
gentleman in a cab? says one. Dreadful! What,
the old party with us all the time ? says the other.
Oh, no! And each thinks it a pity the other takes
such wrong views of what is really proper. As a
fact, the matter is not one of propriety at all, but
of what people have been trained to. Too much
laxity begets a freedom, perhaps forwardness, pt
manners that is distasteful to those who uphold
and adhere to the strictest observance of lex con-
venances. While, per contra, it is not among
those who profess the most rigidly proper
manners that is generally found either the most
virtue or modesty. A Turkish woman won t
let her face bo seen; an English woman
her legs. If we studied over this for a week,
we couldn’t make any more out ot it than
simply that the Turkish lady is modest at one end
and the English lady at the other, . he same
elderly party who is charged with the oversight ot
Agonlsa’s conduct at a ball, though she jealously
guards her own instep from profane gaze, yet
displays, somewhere below her chin, a substantial
expanse of uncovered cuticle that we, who are
modest, can’t even write about without blushing
like a blotting pad. Therefore, we decline to
believe that this elderly party is really any more
an exemplar of modesty than the bonny fishor-girl
who has-and lets anybody see them-sunburnt
calves At this moment two ot the most highly
civilized nations take exactly opposite views of
propriety. Those are America and France.
America is not all alike on this question of
chaperonago. It is true that in several of the
largest cities a society girl docs not go to
private or public balls, theatres, or other places,
without a mother or a chaperone; but it is
only in some cities, and in the highest sots
It them, that the custom holds. It is an old-
world custom still maintained. In all other
cities except these few, and all other sections
of society, ebaperonage is not deemed necessary.
The young man is the recognised substitute tor
the matron. In France, an unmarried girl is under
perpetual tutelage ; as unapproachable to a youth
as if in a glass case. In America, she does as she
pleases, and the national tendency Is towards the
expansion of her social relations with the other
sox. and to throw the entire responsibility of her
actions on herself. An admirer is not required to
court her in the presence of half her relations,
and he is not hustled, as it were, by officious
matchmakers, into an engagement with a girl they
have carefully prevented him knowing anything
about. When a young girl comes out In society, it
is not only permitted, but expected, that a young
man, and a young man only, shall escort her
pleasuring. He takes her everywhere: to theatres,
concerts, "balls, and parties, paying all her ex-
penses. It is an imputation on a girl s charms if a
cavalier is not thus attendant on her. It is an
assertive proof of them if she has several cavaliers.
If seen constantly with relatives, the reason is
ascribed to lack of attention from other
mmrtcrs. Society then notices that she has no
admirers : she is weighed in the balance, and
found wanting. To maintain her position, the
unmatronised girl must devise means to secure
the attention of men. She does a good deal of
this no doubt, much after the manner of her sex
nil the world over. But she is peculiarly addicted
to a “ muffin,” that is, always keeping a beau on a
string-some soft, good-natured fellow, who is
manageable. He is generally young and shy: she
humours him, and she uses him when more bril-
liant men are not to hand, or require fetching
on ” Some girls in Sydney keep muffins. What
wo call forwardness, Is absolutely essential to an
American girl. As a debutante, she has no attrac-
tion; she must win her way to popularity. She
must prove she is interesting, or she is presumed
Jo bo crude. One result is that the American girl
fa self-reliant, mistress of a charming self-posses-
and, as a companion and conversationalist,
brlgfiter and cleverer by degrees than the baby-
llko French girl, or the heavier and more prim
English girl. If a young man calls on her, he will
probably never see the mother for some time,
unless by accident. According to the Eng-
lish style, if a young man calls twice by
himself, though ho may not have the slight-
est "intentions,” a construction is put on the
and the whole family tacitly sits In
Judgment on the question of his eligibleness. The
great watchword of the American single girl is
freedom Exactly the converse is the system ot
matrordsation in France. A girl is little better
fpflii a nonentity till she is married. In the excop-
lionalfl wes where she does go to entertainments,
ft is under close surveillance from her vigilant
mamma, hep eyes are timidly used, and hei talk is
Vha briefest. In the matter of her own marriage
JgJ has scarcely any say at all. Generally it is
settled entirely apart from her desires by her
parents? but eyon If a m»n does nop the question,
Ue seldom ventures to gay anything more direct
than "May the father of monsieur call on the
mother of mademoiselle in regard to mademoi-
selle’s hand in marriage?” Tcsay‘‘\oa would
bo immodest in the French idea. Directly, how-
ever she is married, the whole face ot life is
changed; then her freedom begins, and the young
vi>anch wife will without impropriety do and say
fhuia* that neither English nor Americans would
pvor*draUl of. Then, after all the nursing it has
i-AcaivetlT tun French modesty seems to be but the
# h in nest Vincur, However that may be, such are
the two extremes from which propriety is viewed.
America is on one side, Franco on the other; we in
Australia stand between thp two. Giris have more
freedom here than in Fpanpe-eyeu more than in
If nglandt but tl)o America!) custom is certainly
not f'oeognjsod i)s allowable.
• • •
Mr. and Mrs, Septimus Stephen save a
fashionable ball at Nithsdftle, last week, m cele-
bration of the birthday ot his father. Sir Alfred
Stephen. The gathering was full ol Influential
nnonle and. of course, the Bar was fully repre-
sented A portion of the City Band played for the
dancers, who skimmed the glassy floor till 3 o’clock
f n the morning. The rooms were specially beauti-
ful to mark the importance of the event, over-
Irrfiins being, no doubt out ot compliment to Sir
Alfred visible everywhere. Nearly 200 were pre-
ioat' but we can’t describe all the beautiful
dresses, because wc are not a judge.
* * *
The Mayor of Yass, Mr. E. A. Iceton, Rave
a ball, a few days ago, which will bo remembered
ns one of the best that has been in Yass. Flam and
f«nov costumes were diversifled according to taste
SL elegant; and the hall was prettily decor*;
spirited dancing, music, aud supper all combining
make the night joyful. The hon. member and
fds fair ffidv graced the occasion, while the hon. sec.
for the time being was quite as important a person.
A white satin from North Yass was the embodiment
of charms; and a remarkably handsome pink dress
was worn by a married lady. Some deemed Grace
Darling the belle, but La Mascotto was a rival, and
Arline as well os two sisters from Kathluba, were
all beauties of different types.
• • •
Bv invitation of Mr. Paling, between three
and four hundred people met at his new rooms in
George-street, last Thursday night, to enjoy an-
chor of Max Vogrich’s grand pianoforte recitals.
As Herr Vof rich had announced that his last ap-
pearance at the Masonic Hall was to be his last In
Ivdney, he apologised, through Mr. Paling, for
auneanng again. We accepted his apo pgy. For
two full hours he kept his audience spell-bound-
and a mam must be no ordinary pianist to accom-
Sflsh that. One of the best items on the pro-
Sramme was Beethoven’s Variations with Fugue,
fn wWohXrr Vogrich displayed some left-hand
work which was little short of wonderful. A copy
of his own Caprice was presented to each lady In
♦ho audience : and when we heard Max play it
JBtogtB Sr A we wondered bow many of
these ladies would commit music-slaughter in the
tlrst degree when they got home. Full dress was
the thing, but there was no display; pinks and
blues predominated, and a complete garb of fraisc
icrcme was pre-eminent.
* - * *
The Protestant Hall was comfortably filled
on the occasion of Madame Charbonnec-Keller-
mann’s concert, last Wednesday night. This clever
little lady, who continues to be a prodigious
favourite, must indeed have felt proud at the
cordial reception accorded to her. After playing
her first solo, bouque's and baskets of flowers were
showered upon her in such numbers as to make
the carrying of them no easy task. For an encore to
Beethoven’s “Third Concerto,” Madame gave her
own arrangement of “Some Day,” which, as
played by her, is very pretty. Mozart’s “Gloria”
was played by 360 Angers, all belonging to pupils.
Fancy watching over that number all at once!
Miss Fanny Barton played one of Madarae’s com-
positions in such excellent style that an encore was
insisted upon. Another very promising pupil took
part in a pianoforte duet with Madame Keller-
mann. Madame Marius made her debut before a
Sydney audience, and made as great an impression
as her voice merited. There has been considerable
culture bestowed upon this voice, but it is much
too weak to fill the Protestant Hall. A few of her
low chest notes are pleasing, however. Madame
Merz was in good voice, Mrs. Spencer ditto. The
trio for organ, piano, and violin, was very sweet,
Miss Pedley playing the violin part nicely. The
National Anthoin, played on eight pianos, termi-
nated a pleasant concert.
* * *
The last of the series of Winter Parties
held at Orange was celebrated by a plain and fancy
dress ball on the 33rd August, and a good attend-
ance'resulted. The fair ones were attired with
extra grace, and rivalled the rainbow in their hues.
A lithe little lady as Grace Darling was belle, and
a darling in other ways than one. Kate Green-
away and Buy-a-broom were two pretty costumes,
and Miss M’llae as La Mascotte dressed the char-
acter correctly. Maritana was an attraction as the
best dancer Orange has. Two Scotch Lasses, a
Brittany Peasant with the smiles of that sunny
clime. Mother Hubbard, Greek lady, Queen of
Hearts, and a lady in nicely fitting riding habit,
were among the more conspicuous. Many admirers
were after the character of Follow-the-Drum, and
none could beat it. The gentlemen wore much as
usual, some dressing well, and some ought to have
been at the bottom of a well. Bunthorne, Irishman,
Footballers, Fishermen,’Garibaldi, and a Barrister
were all in the crowd ; and a fair-haired solicitor
carried the dancing palm. The slippery floor
caused a few falls, and even the dreamiest waltzer
can’t be quite insensible to the dazzle of hose whe n
flashed right under his eyes. But all these little
things break the ice, you know, and never do
much harm so long as they don’t break anything
else.
Thus a correspondent:—Your “Social
columns, Mr. Editor, are very interesting to us
ladles—in fact, to many gentlemen, too, if they
would but own it; but L have often wondered why
you never have any account of our “ Kettle-
drums.” They certainly are not such an institu-
tion in Sydney as in either Melbourne or Brisbane:
why, I cannot toll, but it is a fact. A few ladies,
however, have the good taste to encourage them;
and, oh I they are the most comfortable things in
the world for a good gossip. At one I attended
last week the hostess wore a lovely tea-gown of
sea-green cashmere with facings of velvet of a
darker shade. The sleeves were just past the
elbow and elaborately trimmed with the finest
cream lice; silver zone, and white lace tucker.
This lady prides herself on her beautiful china,
and really the cups were lovely—just the shape our
grannies used to drink out of, very wide and
shallow. They were pale canary colour, with a
different flower hand-painted on each cup. As I
was one of the earliest visitors, I had time to
observe two or three dresses before taking my de-
parture. A quiet but tasteful one was of nut-brown
ottoman cord, with tunic of a mixture of old gold
and brown brochti silk. The latter was edged
with brown pompon fringe. Princess bonnet of
brown straw, with two rich old gold tips—long
brown undressed kid gloves, and handsome lace
parasol. One lady was conspicuous for wearing a
crinolette, and I can assure you I and a few more
gave her some looks, for we don’t approve of it,
fashion or no fashion. Our conversation was all
about Madame Kellermann’s concert, and Herr
Vogrich’s recital, and I am afraid the drosses were
more discussed than the music. We all agreed
that Madame Marius looked very beautiful in a
salmon-pink dress, satin skirt, and striped brocho
ovci skirt. Madame Kellermaun wore French white
satin skirt, with long train flounced with tine
lace, black velvet bodice, and white flowers. One
lady said she thought Miss Pedley looked best, in a
light-flowered silk dress, artistically mixed with
lavender of some soft material. Some one remarked
that all Madame’s pupils were handsomely dressed.
At'Herr Vogrich’s recital, the prettiest dresses
were worn by Mr. Paling's pretty daughters. One
was a pure white, chiefly satin, cut low to the
shoulders, and short sleeves. Another, a pale
cream made in same style, but with this a dash of
colour was worn—crushed strawberry, of course.
Another was pink nuns-veiling and satin, with
satin bow in the hair, and pearl round the throat.
A pensive-looking maiden in the company wore a
deep cream satin, with many strings of pearls at
the throat.
* ♦ *
The last of those nice re-unions, the Bur-
wood Assemblies, took place on Friday evening;
weather, arrangements, and ladles, all beautiful.
A charming little damsel from Eragolia, was in
pale pink satin: a fair and graceful visitor In
white, and her winsome little cousin in cream and
cardinal. White satin and tulle garbed a young
solicitor's wife; and a much admired costume or
cream satin was worn by a lady from Summer Hill.
Two North Shore visitors were in cream and blue;
but perhaps the most elegant toilet of the evening
was worn by a fascinating little matron from Con-
cord-black satin and lace, relieved by flouncing of
satin and pompons. Another Concord guest wore
a liecoining' blue silk, ornamented with silver
tissue. A young visitor from Sydney was particu-
larly nice in a low-necked black dross and lace;
and a pretty cream satin came from Croydon.
Russell Lea and Evandale were both represented,
break-up in time for the midnight train, after an
excellent evening’s dance.
* * •
On Monday, the first Assembly this season
of the N.P.S. Rink was successfully held in the
Oddfellows’ Hall, Newtown; equal number of
ladies and gentlemen, making a total of nearly 60
couples, who thought the floor a little rough at
first. A programme of sixteen dances and an
extra, to good music, and backed by capital re-
freshments, resulted in a lot of pleasure. A Dar-
linghurst young lady in pale blue, and cream skirt;
two tall good-looking sisters from Stanraore, one
in blue slashed with shaded old gold, the other in
black and silver; two sisters from Neutral Bay,
one in white and blue plush, the other in pink body
and black velvet skirt, were considerably pretty-
taken for all in all. And that, we understand, is
the way ladies like to be taken. The palm for
pretty face and stylish costume was, perhaps,
taken by a young lady from Glenmore-road, in
blue brochd satin dress trimmed with silver leaves,
and wearing forget-me-nots in the hair ; and a
lesser sister was a beautiful dancer in pink broche.
Randwick sent several valuable contributions;
pink brochti and lace sleeves became an ornament
from Kentville; Presteign furnished that charming
blue satin and cream lace skirt; and heliotrope
body and lace underskirt was the outward garb of
a Venus from the Glebe. Two sisters from Red-
myre weredmyrable in pink broch6 and blue
brochtS. Blue madras muslin over crushed straw-
berry was pretty gay; and a very nice dress of a
married Glebe lady was a cream satin and moini in
coat shape, body trimmed with cream pompons;
and a nice little pair were from Petersham.
Punctually at twelve o’clock, the dancing stopped,
a very cordial evening having been spent.
• • •
The Annual Masonic Ball of the Windsor
Lodge came off on the 23rd Aug., in the Barrack-
room, which was tastefully decorated; and, indeed,
everything was done by the hon. secretaries to
lend “enchantment to the view.” Before, how-
ever, another ball is given in such a building, it
would be advisable to knock a hole through the
wall to permit of the mangled remains of people
crushed to death being passed out readily and
carted away. In addition to the extreme small-
ness of the room, the floor joists had such an elastic
tendency as to bo strongly suggestive of giving
way, and threatened to practically illustrate that
line of poesy “In one red burial blent.” The
boards were very uneven, and floor-nails were
sticking up alarmingly. The walls were so artisti-
cally whitewashed that dress coats underwent an
amusing change after contact. An interesting
sight was the brushing and dusting of these gar-
ments by “ friends in need,” while ladies choked
amid laughter and lime 1 Refreshments were
provided liberally, but the tables were set
on such a narrow strip of verandah that
when once a visitor became jammed, the only
chance of release was either to eat up all
the refreshments in the vicinity (on the prin-
ciple of “cut off the supplies and a retreat will
follow”), or resort to the stirring cry of “Firel”
And now for more pleasant topics. The City Band
supplied the music; and if ever man possessed
“II FlautoJMagico” that man is|Mr. Hodge. This
gentleman gave two solos on the clarionet, “ The
Last Rose of Summer ” and “ Away down the
Swanee River,” and everybody in Windsor has
been humming either one or other ever since.
At nine o’clock the gorgeous Masonic dignitaries
were installed on the dais. In the opening quad-
rille (“ Pinafore ”) Mrs. Jockel and Brother Guise
were vti-d-vls to Brother Dr. Jockel and Mrs.Quise.
Dresses were rich and varied; and for ‘’belles,”
two ladies wo.e selected—married, Mrs. Jockel;
single. Miss Bessy Benson,—both of Richmond.
Mrs. R. B. Hughes looked charming in a creamy
white skirt; Miss Mortley in a superb dress of pink
satin; Miss Ezzy in pink satin; and Mrs. W. J.
Kelly in black satin, and crimson bows. Mrs. W,
Crowley wore maroon satin, trimmed with pink;
Miss C. Johnson looked engaging in pale blue; and
Mrs. G. D. Gallagher in black velvet, with a
lengthy train; Miss Kilpatrick wore cream lace
and a dress of ruby satin; Miss Evans, of Sydney,
was in pale blue ; Miss Schofield, Balmain, white
satin and crimson scarf; Mrs. A. Bowman, Sydney,
blue satin, pink trimmings; Miss Hancock, Sydney,
represented Folly, and Miss M'Laughlin, Sydney,
looked very pretty as Nancy Lee. Twenty-four
dances were got through by 4.30 a.m. All appeared
to enjoy themselves, but had the accommodation
not been so limited (which was not the fault of
those concerned—no other room being available)
more satisfaction would have been given.
* * * *
On Wednesday, September 19, the pupils
past and present of Mr. F. H. Needs give him a
complimentary ball. It is intended to confine the
ball to pupils, and to adopt the plan so successfully
tried on several late occasions of having all the
tickets double ones; this generally balances the
sexes fairly Dr. Evans gave a juvenile fancy
dress party at Balmain last week— A dance in aid
of the R. C. Church at Kiama was held at the local
Temperance Hall, and about 10 couples appeared.
34 dances, a trio of musicians, and refreshments in
ante-room. Miss Ettinghausen looked charming in
white and pink; and the wearer of a black velvet
and silver flowers was the same—Singleton was
very gay during show time; dinners and luncheon
to the Ministers, two Oddfellows’ parties, Amateur
Dramatic Club performances, and a ball given in
the show pavilion by Mr. G. Loder, president . .
Fourth Dubbo Winter Party, occurred on the 23nd
August. Music, floor, and refreshments all capital.
Among the ladies present, were Mrs. Warren in
pale pink; Mrs. Fitzgerald in black and cardinal;
Misses Butler, Brown, Norton, Smith, and others.
Miss Baird in pale blue, and Miss Caswell from
Wellington in pale pink silk, wore charming. The
dance was kept going till morning, when all were
satisfied The marriage of Mr. J. E. Redmond,
M.P., with the daughter of Mr. James Dalton of
Orange, has been announced for the 4th September
Sydney Social Club’s first meeting was held
last week at Read’s Rooms, to enjoy an evening’s
music A farewell party was given at the
City Hall to Mr. Philip Hodge, when danc-
ing was the order of the night The last
Bachelor’s Ball at Herberton commenced on
Thursday night, and finished on Saturday morning.
The Rosehili Bowling Club conclude their
season next Wednesday, when trophy matches will
be played, and the President's trophy presented to
Mr. Dunshea, the winner. For ladies, croquet and
lawn tennis are provided Arrangements made
to prevent a crush at the Manly wildflower show ;
more windows also, which are necessary. The
new steamer Brighton, just arrived, will be run, if
possible Mr. Michael Ackman and Miss Annie
Conway, a jeweller’s gem, will be wedded on the
13th Sept., when the wedding breakfast will be
followed by a largo ballatNithsdaleinthe evening.
... On Tuesday, 21st August, Mr. and Mrs. Wigzell
entertained a party of friends in Oxford-street,
and 60 attended. There might have been more,
only there was too much dampness in the hair,
which prevented them combing. Dancing was the
chief thing, and they all seemed to enjoy it as they
brushed past one another in many a curl and twist.
There was singing also, and the airs were cut short
about 2 o’clock, when all went home Blayney
quadrille assemblies continue pleasant, and a
charming little pianisto is available A large
masquerade bail is to be held at Jones’s Warwick
Hall, Newcastle, next month. The Hospital Con-
cert, under the management of Mr. C. Hannell, in
the Victoria Theatre, Newcastle, netted a large
amount for the Institution It is said that a
Queanbeyan belle is instituting proceedings against
one of the “ devil’s own.” On Saturday, the 15th
Sept., a regatta will be held at Snails Bay for
prizes given by ladies. Samuel Pllmsoll will
be flagship, and there Is to be dancing ’tween
decks to music of the Vernon Band At the
Adelaide Hunt Club meets Lady W. Robinson often
rides right through to the end of the ohaieuu
Social continued on next page*


IE. TX7“ol±E Sz Son’s
PENCILS.
To be had from all Stationers & Storekeepers throughout the colonies.
A CUP OF GOOD COFFEE
IS WHAT YOU WANT, BUT SELDOM GET.
THEN ASK YOUR GROCER OR STOREKEEPER FOR
A. G. Churchwooa’s Crown Brand
BLENDED FROM THE FINEST MOCHA. JAMAICA, and CEYLON BERRIES.
Bits' M STAR WEI!
* * -X-
A
®UR
Ki'S
s 'Af(
CAUSE AND EFFECT.
The First Man I Met To-day : “ Peal ?
Why, Fresh as Paint! You see, we drank
nothing but BURKE’S ‘THREE STAR’
last night. That’s the Whisky for me, old
man! ”
Another Man I Met To-day : “ Chippy?
Should think I am! Was drinking some
other Whisky yesterday. Come and have
a Horn of BURKE’S 1 THREE STAR,’ that
will soon put me right! ”
DALTON BROTHERS, SYDNEY AND ORANGE,
Sole Agents for New South Wales.
HORDERN’S
ON THE
IBric3s±ielcL Hill.
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS in LACE CURTAINS.
These Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers
I
LACE CURTAINS, lOO PRICES.
* n country can have forwarded to the nearest Railway Station, Free of Charge, a Set of Lace
Curtains. If you like the pattern which is represented in this engraving, cut it out, and we will forward exactly
the same pattern. See future advertisements for other patterns.
LACE CURTAINS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS,
Irish Linen Table Damasks, to match the Curtains. Table Napkins. Linen Diapers. Embroidered Table Covers.
Mosquito Nets. Striped and Plain Window Union. Examine carefully the engraving of our
“LACE CURTAINS.”
B
WK
Wi
*
8
mrji
2 *i>
OoO v ,
-
i.v~
THE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO,
flTVMW % flfllW are the largest consumers off American
oiiiUUH 66 WUilUi L caff in the colonies, hence the FIRST
7 position for quality is assigned to their Twist
and Flat Tobaccos— Yankee Doodle, Conqueror, Sir Roger (thick
twist), R. C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture, and others.
CIGARETTES.— Their CONQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold an equal position.
& g., importers of Pipes of every kind, Cigars, and all Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods and Sundries.
ONE ONLY ADDRESS:-
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS,
I LACE CURTAINS] 668 BRICKFIELD HILL. [LACE CURTAINS)
VW Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
The Melbourne Comedy Club have added £50 to
the funds of the Boyal Humane Society by a
dramatic performance The most interesting
character at the Turn-Verein masked ball in Mel-
bourne was “ Chloe dressed." Chloe was repre-
sented by a symmetrical youth in skin-fitting
tights, but with no other clothing than a fur tippet
on his shoulders, gloves and slippers Grand
bicvcle race at the Agricultural Show to-day, 4.30
o m , 5 miles, three trophies— Last Thursday, the
designers and builders of Wlgzell’s Turkish baths,
gave Mr. and Mrs. Wigzell a return dinner and
garden party at Frank Smith’s Hotel, Botany.
The party sat to tables at 3 p.m., when several
toasts were dealt with, and then sports and dancing
were continued till 9 o’clock At Herr Vogrich’s
recital, a gentleman appeared In crushed straw-
berry silk gloves St. Vincent’s postponed three
weeks on account of the Archbishop passing away.
Though everyone says crushed strawberry is
‘‘loud.” &c., it is more worn than ever. At
the Mayor’s ball, Melbourne, It prevailed, and
there were dozens of bright crimson dresses, some
relieved by white satin petticoat fronts. One
magnificent toilet was of white tulle, and all over
it were swallows, with outspread wings, poised on
the cloudy fabric as if lit for a rest. All the
women professed horror at the cruelty of killing
the poor little birds. But how do they know they
were killed ? Most probably they were birds who
had met with an accident. Most of the sex wore
their hair dressed high, and many, DanaS-like,
were showered with gold A good bachelors’
ball was held in Parramatta last week at the
Masonic Hall, about 100 present, but two much of
the angelic element, and lots of dust. It was,
however, a jolly ball, and Miss Folks, of Summer
Hill, was the belle Mr. Joseph Weston, pro-
prietor of the Kiama Independfnt, gave a
banquet and dance on Friday, to celebrate the
opening of his new office. About 70 sat down, and
after feasting and speeches, dancing commenced,
and the party did not separate till 3.30 a.m. Half
a hundred ladies and gentlemen held a pleasant
assembly at Tumut last week, and danced till
nearly 4. Honours divided between a lady from
Bombowlee and two eldest daughters of a local
auctioneer—nice lots Mrs. Colborne Fraser
gives a Cinderella party to-night, in Bead’s Booms,
and a pleasant dance is expected.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Sydney Private Assembly (Nithsdale) Aug-. 31
Bandwick Races Sept. 1,4, 6, 8
Government House Ball Sept. 5
Wellesley Football Club Annual Ball (School
of Arts, Burwood) Sept. 7
Bachelors’Private Assembly (Nilhsdalo)...Sept. 7
Rugby Union Sports Sept. 8
School of Industry Ball (Town Hall) Sept. 11
Banquet to Mr. P. Hogan (Waterloo
Town Hall) Sept. 12
St. Andrew's Masonic Ball Sopt. 13
Manly Wildflower Show Sept. 14,15
E.S.A.A. Club Sports Sept. 15
Snails’ Bay Regatta Sept. 15
Comp. Ball to Mr. F. H. Needs (Nithsdale).. Sept. 19
Annual Picnic Nimrod Fishing Club Sept. 19
Sydney A. A. Club Sports Sept. 22
St. Vincent’s Annual Ball (Exhibition) Sept. 25
Parramatta Rowing Club Ball Sept. 28
**♦ Notices of all interesting Social Events (pro-
perly authenticated by the names and addresses of
the writers) will be inserted.
Sydney, 38th August.
Dear Beepe,—The early part of last week was
too abominably wet and dismal for anything. We
Intended to go and hear the band or the Nelson
play in the Gardens on Monday, but, of course,
were obliged to stay at home. But we haven’t
been stinted of music, for the City Band gave a
really line promenade concert In the Exhibition on
Wednesday night, which deserved better patron-
age. But they didn’t advertise It until rather late,
so many people did not know in time. Then they
?layed at the Green Park on Saturday afternoon,
hen we had the bands at the Show, and the
Vernon boys at the “ Zoo,” and the Nelson Band
again last Monday in the Botanic Gardens. This
Park or Garden music is an excellent thing, Mab.
When the golden atoms dance in the sun, and
odours of fragrance rise, and flowers bloom to
please the eye, and the music of master minds
rails grateful on the ear—the whole world seems
brighter and better, doesn’t it ? Some people don’t
like it all; say it’s “miscellaneous." How it must
annoy these exclusive folks to think that they
can't buy up all the flowers, and fragrance, and
floating sounds, so as to prevent the degradation
of having to share them with common people who
haven’t got money. How irritating to walk on
the same grass, and sit under the same Australian
sun, as horrid people who work!
We had what Yankee girls would call a splendid
time at the Gymnastic Sociable (the tenth, I be-
lieve) on Thursday evening. The Gymnasium,
under the Unitarian Church, in Liverpool-street,
was full of visitors. There were a good many
ladies present, but as the evening was cold they
were all wrapped up, and so I have nothing to tell
you about finery, if there was any. The professo s
and their pupils did some curious things. The
Indian club performance of Professor d’Harcourt,
though to our uneducated eyes it looked very
simple, was, I am told, dreadfully hard to do. He
got plenty of applause for it. Even to such an
ignoramus as myself, the case with which Pro-
fessor Cansdell lifted tremendously heavy dumb-
bells seemed extraordinary. I don’t know any-
thing about muscles, of course; but I heard a gen-
tleman near me say that Mr. Cansdell’s were splen-
did; they were big enough, goodness knows. The
pupils did all sorts of things, and seemed to take
especial pleasure in hanging themselves on the
wooden appliances, upside down; and the two pro-
fessors wrestled In what they call Grreco-Roman
style, but it was all Greek to me. Then there was
boxing, and the tug of war. The ladders and
swinging business made me feel rather nervous
and afraid of accidents, but they all seemed to be
made of india rubber, and to do what they pleased
with their arms and legs, and so I got used to It.
It was foolish to get frightened, because if any of
them had tumbled it wouldn’t have hurt me,
would it?
The Agricultural Show is going to be a success
this time, I think. On Saturday afternoon there
was such a crowd that you couldn’t see anything
comfortably; but we had gone there on Friday
just after the opening, and had a good look round
when there were very f-.-w people in attendance.
Un Friday afternoon there wore a good m.ny
present, and I saw some pretty dresses. One was
very remarkable: everybody was looking at it.
f t was a black satin ground, the body plain black,
sleeves and skirt all bright-coloured flower pattern,
ft was really beautiful. Cream bonnet and parasol
looked pretty with it. A green satin with panels
or moss-green brocM, parasol of green satin
trimmed with white lace, was elegant. A terra-
cotta striped satin with pearl buckles, black velvet
bonnet, I liked. A navy blue velvet and satin, and
a myrtle green velvet with moonlight bead fringe,
were the best of the others. On Saturday, Lady
Augustus Loftus was there, in black, with a blue
bonnet. The yokels pressed in upon her without
much ceremony as she was looking at the horses.
She didn’t seem to notice their rudeness. There
were some lovely dresses on the grounds the second
day ; but such a crush that it was hard to see
them. Among the more striking costumes were a
violet plush bodice and tunic over a skirt of helio-
trope ottoman silk, bordered with the violet plush;
white bonnet and parasol. A sad green satin, with
paniers embroidered with large gold-colored
liowers, was worn with hat of satin the same
shade as the dress, with feathers and trimmings to
match. A moss-green satin, with cream lace pa-
niers, was very handsome. A slate-coloured silk,
with sleeveless jacket and tunic of shot silk, crim-
son and grey, with a lozenge pattern of dark
crimson, was quite a novelty. A biscuit-coloured
cashmere and satin was one of the prettiest. I
caught a glimpse of a blue, with flowered paniers,
and bonnet and feathers peacock blue ; and of
another costume with front of the dress of satin
cherry-juice colour; but it was hidden by the
throng. I caught more than a glimpse of a crushed
strawberry lady—her whole costume was of
crushed strawbeiTy, hat and all. She looked a
sight, but not a pretty one. Everybody rushed to
see the horses jumping, which was the best fun at
the Show. Only two or three would take all the
leaps, and they all did much better the tlrst day
than on Saturday. One rider with a long board,
and in the regulation cords and tops, looked
the very beau-ideal of a bushrnan. One poor
horse gave us a fright. The nder walked
him quite close to the stillest of the fences,
and 1 don’t knew whether the horse tried to
jump over, but the next thing we knew, the
wretched animal was stuck on the top of it, and
there it struggled till the people managed to get
it down. The sheep and cattle dogs have such
lovely eyes, with such a pathetic expression in
them, that I could have stayed ever so long look-
ing at them. One little terrier nas a covering
embroidered with crewel work. There are not
many fowls, but some splendid birds among the
few. Some fruit preserved whole in glass jars
looks splendid, I must try and do some this com-
ing Summer. We have been buying the Ameri-
can, which is vei-y expensive.
Though the Block was crowded on Saturday
moi’uing, there was little in the way of novelty in
costumes. Everyone wants to finish her Winter
stock, I suppose. Velvet and satin, satin and
velvet, merino and velvet, and the same with
satin, are still to be seen, though they’ll soon have
to be laid aside. A navy blue velvet trimmed
with satin, pretty hat of the same coloured satin
with feather, was the best I saw. Another nice
one had a jacket of black satin, boi'dered with two
or three rows of black Spanish lace, over a black
velvet skirt. A brown brochd was also stylish.
Some of the shops are showing new things in
hats of si raw, two different colours, like basket-
work; fruit for trimming. Flowered sateens pro-
mise to be as much in favour the coming Summer
as last.
The Woollahra Private Assembly, on Friday
night, was ever so nice, and the room was quite
full enough. Mr. Ernest Needs pi'ovided that
faultless music of his, and when he plays everyone
is satisfied. A supper was catered by Cripps. There
were mostly light dresses seen, a good many white
satins especially. One covered with white lace
flounces was the most noticeable; and a black
trimmed with laoe in shell pattern deserved the
admiration lavished on it. Dancing finished at
one o'clock, and, as usual, there was ti serpentine
line of cab-lamps stretching away up the street.
But the cabbies became very dejected when a
special tram popped up just at the moment when
their hopes were raised, and took the guests a^ay.
What funny advertisements one sees sometimes
in the newspapers. I saw this one the other day in
the lost and found column : “ Lost, an open-faced
lady's gold watch and chain.” Her watch-pocket
must nave been open as well as her face, or she
would not have lost her watch. I told papa he’d
better put in the paper next time he lost his
spectacles (you know, dear, he’s always losing
them) “ Lost, a red-faced gentleman’s spectacles.”
He said I was pert ! Now, good bye, dear.
Yours,
MAB.
So poor Boyd, the photographer, is buried—
Gone to tho land of the shades and the shadows.”
There are a great many very “ eminent ” men who,
If they pegged out to-morrow, wouldn’t be half so
much missed by a very large crowd as the poor
fellow who was tho father ot truly artistic photo-
graphy in Sydney. He arrived at a time when
artistic photographs were not easily obtainable,
and his advent may be said to have created as great
a revolution in tho photographic art here as the
strategy of Moltke has in the art ot warfare in
Europe. Poor Boyd was the essence ot good
nature, and, just in the bizarre way of the world,
has d ed in the prime of life. All the Americans
attended his funeral.
Let us be patriotic or nothing. This is
our country I! and while the girl has gone out
with the jug we are ready to bleed for it. There
an ,} r ° n harque in Sydney, now, called the
Woollahra, ’ which is owned by Sydney mer-
chants, and which tiles, and has flown (this sounds
curious, but we can’t say “Hewed”) the same
banner—the glorious Horsetralian flag—for over
three years. Well, last Sunday, our colonial ensign
with its blue on white and five stars (" Pooieish”
this) was floating in the breeze, when a steam
launch from the Nelson, containing a lieutenant
and an army of swashbucklers extremely tight
about the knee and excessively broad about the
ankle, swarmed on board, and ordered tho
chief officer of tho Woollahra to haul down
the flag. The gallant chief being, at the time of
tho naval lieutenant’s advent, deep in duff, waxed
wroth; but he had to swallow his anger as he had
swallowed his duff; and, in view of the captain
being absent, and seeing, besides, that the lieute-
nant wore a sword (let alone boots), he commanded
tbO'Cook'to haul down our beloved ensign. They
can’t use it at all. now, for they even had to haul
it down from tho raizzen masthead, and were
snubbed by the Government for over having
hoisted the adored flag of their country. There-
fore, it has been given to the cook’s mate lor a
counterpane. Things are getting a bit thick, now,
it Commodore Erskiue can insult tho flag which
has braved a thou anyhow, a good long while.
Patriots ! rise I Rally and sound the toc»in! But
don't sound it too loud in the morning, when our
paper’s out. Wo thirst for blood and revenge ;
but we like to lay off, too. While we are snoozing
our country can wait.


The Great German Remedy
ST, JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBStOIL
ST. JACOBS 01B
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL
CURBS
CURES
CURBS
CURES
CURBS
CURES
CURES
CURES
RHEUMATISM.
RHEUMATISM.
RHEUMATISM.
RHEUMATISM.
RHEUMATISM.
RHEUMATISM.
RHEUMATISM.
RHEUMATISM.
CURES
CURES
CUBES
CURES
CURES
CURBS
CURES
CURES
NEURALGIA
NEURALGIA
NEURALGIA
NEURALGIA
NEURALGIA
NEURALGIA
NEURALGIA
NEURALGIA
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL
PAIN
CURES
CON
UERS
CON
UERS
PAIN
CURBS
PAIN
CON
UERS
CURES
PAIN
CURES
CON
UERS
CON
UERS
PAIN
CURBS
CON
UERS
PAIN
CURES
PAIN
CURES
CON
UERS
HEADACHE
HEADACHE
HEADACHE
HEADACHE
HEADACHE
HEADACHE
HEADACHE
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL
CURES
CURES
CURBS
CURES
CURES
CURES
TOOTHACHE.
TOOTHACHE.
TOOTHACHE.
TOOTHACHE.
TOOTHACHE.
TOOTHACHE.
CURES
CURES
CURBS
CURES
CURES
CUBES
BACKACHE
BACKACHE
BACKACHE
BACKACHE
BACKACHE
BACKACHE
St. Jacobs Oil, the great German remedy, con
oners pain, Sold by Druggists, Chemists, and
Medicine Dealers throughout the world. Price in
New South Wales, half-a-crown a bottle. Direc-
tions for using in 11 languages.
ELLIOTT BROTHERS,
Sydney,
Wholesale Depot for N.S.W.
WILLIAM M'HONOUR SACKVILLE.
Lay hold of your organ of pity. Turn the end
with the tap on over the side of your anatomy, and
let it run into the gutters of general sorrow, or
you will swamp the groundworks of your system
as you listen to this tale. It is about a widow.
Lay hold of your organ of pity, I say. Keep a grip
of it, and be ready, for the flood will flow when I
tell you what happened the widow Malone. Now,
ease off about that other old widow. The Malone
Ohone was nothing to our Annie Malone. The
Malone Ohone found her way into warm arms, but
Pur Annie didn’t, and thereby hangs the tale.
Dear Tom floated to Paradise on a billow of dark
brandy, and left Annie, with a wholesale and retail
store, in the township of Bullville, in the days long
gone. Dear Tom didn’t say much on the eve of his
departure. He had written something on the back
of a five pound note, which was taken to be a will
and had left everything he possessed, even his
daughter Polly, to his beloved wife, Annie. No
one is critical in the bush, and the widow admin-
istered in the local court, put a pile of bricks at
the head of dear Tom’s grave, and kept a handker-
chief handy to sop her eyes with when dear Tom’s
name came round. And the years passed, and
trade was brisk, and Polly grew. “ I’m every day
of seventeen,” said Polly.
Have you a grip of that organ ? Mind, you turn
the tap to the outside.
The widow, in ordering her supplies from the
port, was thrown into correspondence with an
agent whose name she thought she know. “ Wil-
liam M’Honour Sackville!” she would say, holding
up the memorandum about moleskins and tinware,
“ I wonder could that be M’Honour ?” And then
she blushed, for M’Honour Sackville was a school-
fellow of hers, in the early years, away across the
ocean, and they had often gone blackberrylng
together, and she and M’Honour had often vowed
that they liked each other to distraction. “ He
wouldn’t know me now with the name of Malone,”
said she. “Poor dear Tom!” And then she took
out the handkerchief and soaked her eyes,
But, when ordering a special quality of moles
one time, she managed to work into a postscript
something that took the form of an Inquiry relative
to the name of Sackville. She said the name re-
minded her of the time of her childhood, when the
highly respectable family of M’Honour Sackville
wore neighbours of her family, the De Frederick
Gallaghers, in the Liberties of Dublin. In duo
course, a reply came. Yes, it was actually the
very man she had surmised; and as warmly
as a distance apart of five hundred miles
would let them, they shook each other by the
hand, and felt very happy at the discovery. It is
needless to say that the letters were not of a more
dry business nature after this. Little interesting
particulars of a personal kind became very fre.
quent. The widow had given a full account of her
credit balances under several aspects, and soon sot
out her position as a very enviable one. She did
not omit to lot it be seen that she was also a woman
of a deeply affectionate temperament. “Poor
dear Tom—ah, William, I can’t let the thought of
him out of my head. He was so kind and good,
and was taken away when I was a mere girl. We
can't blame Providence, however, so I go up now
and then and weep among the bricks." It will be
noticed that she was now making herself welcome
to any part of her correspondent’s name. Nor had
William any objection. “You are now, Annie,”
he used write, “Just in your prime, and Polly will
soon be getting married. Only that I have so
many engagements on hand, I would gladly run out
your way.” And so the friendship went on ripen-
ing, and William M’Honour Sackville thought he
■could make a good thing out of Bullville. In
: a business sort of tone he referred to the
widow Malone when travellers spoke of Bullville,
and learned that her letters had not overdrawn the
■ extent of her wealth. But her name suggested to
itheiravellers a little mirth. Each possessed a few
iane«lyte8 of the way she set her cap at people on
sshjqrtacquaintance, but they were all unanimous
tin saying Polly was a plum. “ By Jove, she is, but
’the old woman bounces her.” M’Honour Sackville
wrote an affectionate letter on the first of March,
stating that important business called him out of
the colony, and that "dear, dear Annie” would
excuse his silence for a month.
On the 13th of March, a middle-sized, greyish
man arrived at Bullville, on his way northward to
take up country. His name was Jeremy Mills, and
as his horses wanted a spell, ho settled himself in
the township for a fortnight, and visited about
pretty freely. He became a constant diner at the
widow’s, and two or throe noticed that he was
studiously attentive to Polly. On the last day of
the fortnight, he plucked up courage and asked
for her in marriage. Whatever Polly’s view of the
matter was, the widow exhibited mortal offence,
and escorted Mr. Mills to the door with chilling
dignity. Mr. Mills rounded up his horses, and
cleared from the township, saying to himself that
the old lass was playing a deep game, but that he
was not going to run away with Polly. “ The old
lass opposes the union, so as to get out of giving
the fortune. I’m net on!”
On the 1st April, M’Honour Sackville wrote to
the widow, describing various towns he had visited,
and regretting that his business was of a nature to
make it impossible for him to have a run to Bull-
ville on any near day. At the same time, his
language was exquisitely tender, and Annie forgot
for some time to go up to look at the bricks. She
sat up all night, and sent a tender letter in reply.
Then there came another letter from Sackville,
still warmer, still sweeter. Then Annie sent an-
other every bit as warm and sweet. Then
M’Honour Sackville said one thing only stood in
the way, and that was the grown girl Polly. He
would always be kind to Polly, but he did not like
to assume the position of stepfather. His feeling
might be a foolish one, but it was founded on ex-
perience, and he had seen great unhappiness arise
from such relationships. As Polly was now mar-
riageable, why not marry her? The widow de-
bated the point earnestly, but M’Honour Sackville
was inexorable. Until the house was cleared and
Polly disposed of, he would not go to Bullville.
He was leaving home now for a month, and hoped
she would have good news when h« got back.
On the 10th of May, Mr. Jeremy Mills returned to
Bullville, as he had to f(o South for stud stock, aud,
notwithstanding the little coldness between him-
self and the widow, he found his way there to dine.
“Oh, it’s no harm, Mrs. Malone. I’m n the man
to raise a quarrel between you and your daughter.
I can trust Polly, and she’ll keep herself for me, if
it must be, till you go up with dear Tom.” Then
the widow went to her room and wept, and con-
fessed she was in an awkward fix. She knew Sack-
ville was determined, and she saw Jeremy Mills,
the only man Polly showed any liking for, was in
no hurry, and hadn’t the slightest notion of run-
ning away with the girl. “ Mr. Mills,” said she, one
evening, “ pool Polly is fretting, and It goes to my
heart to see her growing pale. I really fear her
health is giving way. Oh, you cruel man, to
deprive me of my dear child just as she has reached
womanhood! But, I suppose, if it must be, it must
be. I have spoken to Polly, and I pray that both
of you will be happy.” “ But, Mrs. Malone,” said
the pragmatic Jeremy, “ what sort of a fortune are
you going to give? I know for certain you are
worth £10,000. Now, Polly’s worth half of that.”
“Indeed, I’m not,” cried the widow, “indeed, I’m
not. It’s all talk. And, besides, it looks as if you
were marrying for money. I’ll just give you £100-
Now, Mr. Mills, I understand you’re a pushing man,
and you must bo doing well as It is; and that’s
enough now, isn’t it?” “Can’t afford it,” said
Jeremy; “ can’t afford it. Will give you a month
to think about it. Must be off. By-bye. So long,
Polly!”
“ I say most certainly,” wrote M’Honour Sack-
ville, on the 1st of June, “agree to that man’s
terms. I have asked a couple of people about
him, and he's right enough, but isn’t flush in
money just now. What’s £o000 ? I’ll think all the
more of you for giving it. It’s the only way out
of the fix.” And the widow expostulated, and
M’Honour Sackville insisted, and at last Mr. Mills
came into Bullville, and the marriage-day was
fixed, and the £5000 lodged in the bank to the
credit of Polly Malone. Mr. Mills went off to get a
home ready, and M’Honour Sackville sent a letter
stating “rll be in Bullville in time for the cere-
mony?’
Jeremy Mills and Polly Malone knelt before the
parson. Jerry was never very well-looking, his
mouth having been cut for a man twice his size,
but ho wore a very pleasant smile as he knelt there
in white gloves, lavender tie, and shining dress
coat; and Polly was really handsome, and her arch
eyes were full of suppressed fun as she knelt be-
side him. She had on a white brocaded dross,
trimmed with orange blossoms, and a white veil
and wreath, with dlamoad brooch, and brace-
lets. “ I wonder,” the widow was saying as
she stood behind, “what keeps M’Honour Sack-
vllle! He promised to be here. Oh, how I long
for our own day I” And then her head became full
of the theme, and, in a sort of dreamy conscious-
ness, she heard the parson say “ William M‘Honour
Sackville,” and she heard Mr. Mills say “William
M’Honour Sackville,” and then her own Polly
said “William M’Honour Sackville,” and she did
think it a strange coincidence, but thought it all a
dream, and the blessing was given, and the kissing
was done, and the shaking of hands over, and then
when she saw the names entered on the sheets
“therefor provided,” she opened up her eyes,
ejaculated, was answered calmly and distinctly,
and dropping on her cage with a bang, fainted
away.
She had been kissing the photograph of a C.M.G.
for the last four months, having accepted it as that
of her dear correspondent, William M’Honour
Sackville, while Sackville was dining at her house
under the name of Jeremy Mills, and wooing and
winning Polly. “The only way,” said M’Honour
Sackville, “ I could raise the tin!”
Keep your organ of pity to the outside. Now,
let it run. The Widow Malone is up at the bricks,
and is crying, “ Poor dear Tom 1 Poor dear Tom I
JOSS.
Hop Bitters strengthens, builds up aud
cures continually, from the first dose. Be sure
and see.
A lion-tamer quarrelled with his wife, a
powerful virago, and was chased by her all round his
tent. On being sorely pressed, he took refuge in
the cage among the lions. “ Oh, you contemptible
coward I” she snouted, “ come out if you dare.”
A fierce anti-Cobden article in an English
paper says that the great Free-trader “ was a very
well-meaning member of Parliament, who was
neither a statesman nor a philosopher, but who
was and will be known as the author of a number
of predictions, which had all been falsified by the
event.” In this, however, he is no worse off than
the Apostles. Such was the answer that was irre-
verently given. There may be something in it.
“The crime, not the scaffold,” makes the
shame, wrote Charlotte Corday, in a letter to
her father after the murder of Marat.
An unsuccessful rebel is a “traitor;” a
successful one is a “patriot” and a “liberator.”
That which is called obstinacy In a donkey is firm-
ness in a king. ,
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
«1“ Kosmos,” in the World, addressing the
Bishop of Peterborough, tells that ecclesiastic that
he “lacks the tolerance of stupidity which is
called charity, the indifference of hyprocrisy
which is dubbed forbearance, and the faculty of
acquiescing in make-believes which Is styled re-
speotablity." What a splendid Bishop of Peter-
borough our own Granny would make!
Spequlation is of course rife as to who will
succeed the late Dr. Vaughan as Archbishop of
Sydney. Some of the leading R.C. laymen hope
that it will be possible to secure the distinguished
Monslgnor Capel; others have an idea that Dr.
Vaughan’s brother, the Bishop of Salford, will
have the post conferred upon him. But as these
matters are ordered by the Pope there is little use
in anticipating.
SUGGESTIVE.
The row among the Liberals
Is getting rather racy;
For io, behold, it now befals
That Bright has ousted Lacy I
Well, if the waves of Scorn’s grim sea
Become a bit more surgy,
And rocks are thrown, why, then, we’ll be
Reminded of the clergy.
Another religious row. A priest in
Buffalo (N.Y.) forbade his flock to drink on
Sundav. Another priest in the same town
encouraged them to get as much fun as they could
out of the day. Priest No. 1, hearing that a lot of
his people were drinking in a saloon, proceeded
thitner, and denounced them. He threatened to
deny them the Sacrament*, and to consign them to
hell. Partizans of No. 2 remonstrated. Result, a
gory riot, police called in, and a demand for beds
in the hospital. So waves the olive branch.
Rev. R. B. Dickinson, M.A., writes to the
Age, mildly complaining that but half his lecture
on “ Science and Religion ” was reported. In
geology Mr. Dickinson luckily discovered an illus-
tration of the “ illimitableness of the future
punishment of the impenitent*, and of the glory
of the blest.” He ha* also found out how genesis
and geology are complimentary instead of contra-
dictory. There is no Knowing where these useful
discoveries would stop if he had time to devote
himself entirely to his favourite science, without
the necessity for piecing together two or three
sermons a week on grace or on original sin, A
person like this, who, by merely sinking s hole in
the ground, can discover proofs of how the
majority of mankind will be sempiternally wasted,
deserves to be encouraged.
The tyranny of Sabbatarianisn becomes
every day more obvious. A Mr. Styles, in order to
catch the Hobart boat at Eden, was obliged to
drive his cattle through pious Panbula on the Saw-
bath, or, as he explained, leave the poor animals
starving for two days in the shipping yards. But
inhumanity and cruelty is the very life of Sab-
batarianism, and so the holy police of Panbula laid
an information against Mr. Styles for Sabbath-
breaking under a statute of the days of Charles II.
If we bring back the Sabbath statutes of Charles
the Second’s days, why not have all 'the rest back ?
Why not, in fine, go right back to original savage-
dom at once ? The Panbula bench dismissed the
case. Perhaps it would be as well if they could do
the same Kind service to their pious subordinates.
There’s not a clergyman in Victoria who
is not announced to pulverise Hlginbotham.
Every paper is full of it. From the Dean of Mel-
bourne (xrosty-powed as John Anderson my Jo)
to the last appointed curate burning to win his
polemical spurs—they are all in it. And in Sydney
they are following suit. Pastor Daniel Allen
lectured about it in the Protestant Hall. He said
it was filled with “ God-insulting and revolutionary
statements.” Having basted the Judge he pranced
round for the scientists. Of these he made very
short work. Darwin was correctly described as a
“sham”—while as for Denton and Procter, they
were very minute tubers. The real top-sawyers
among scientists were to be found among the 617
who lately gave it as their private opinion that
Science and the Bible were as like each other as
twins, and agreed in everything. We were not
present at the Pastor’s “discourse,” but when he
gives another we would not miss it for the wealth
of Sinbad’s valley.
“And when that the Opera was over.”
Well, “ II Trovatore” had gone on in the Melbourne
Opera House on Saturday night, and the carols of
Signora Graziosi rippled to the roof. Saturday
night is always the Briton’s carnival, and he enjoys
himself to the full, knowing that he is on the eve
of sleep, stupor, and hypocrisy. But, for some
while back, the very platform of the Signora has
echoed on Sunday nights to a very different sort
of entertainer. Thomas Walker makes no pre-
tensions to beingmusleal. For Verdi, he substitutes
Verity, and for the Troubadour’s Opera, the opera
of Honesty. At least, so he says. And accordingly
“When that the Opera was over” on Saturday
night, the Briton was coming lately to see that
there was a chance of a break in the sleep, stupor,
and hypocrisy period. The Briton was beginning
to find his way in his thousands to Bourke-street
at 7 p.m. on Sundays. Therefore, the parsons put
their heads together, and, therefore, the pious and
immortal Government Issued a ukase, whereby
Thomas is extinguished, and sleep, stupor, and
hypocrisy are preserved intact for the noble
Briton. Thomas is to dance no more behind those
footlights, bis rich strong voice, with the slight
smack of the Caledonian’s r-r-r, will ring no more
under the capacious roof, and the noble Briton
will be limited on future Sundays to the three
time-honoured dishes—sleep, sermon, and pro-
fligacy. May he enjoy his opportunities 1 The
sleep he can get anywhere, the sermon he can get
for threepence in a stone building at every corner,
and the profligacy—well he has only to turn the
corner from any church door, and ne can get his
armful.
♦ * •
Walker, the Melbourne free-thought lec-
turer, interviewed Berry to pro* est against the
action of the police in preventing the delivery of
Sunday evening lectures at the Opera-house, but,
could not “ draw old Sugarloaf out.” The burden
of the latter’s song, given with an iteration as
damnable as that of the Pallas-plcking raven, was
“shut up.” The Chinese have a custom which
consists in driving out the devil once a year from
their midst. Like all religious ceremonies, of
course, it costs money. Well, the other day, about
£40 were collected amongst the Celestials in Bal-
larat to defray the expense of banishing Beelzebub,
but the treasurer levanted, so that the poor
heathen is quite level with us.
• • •
At last we have a sample of the right
sort of cleric:— Canon the Hon. A. Ansbn,
Rector of Woolwich, has resigned his living in
order to engage, at his own cost, in missionary
work among the settlers now flocking in great
numbers into the wheat-growing prairies of North-
West Canada.
“ Britons never shall,” &c. In England,
you must get married before noon, unless you
obtain a special license. The Archbishop fre-
quently refuses that. But Peers, Privy Coun-
cillors, and sons of Peers are entitled to a license
as a matter of right, and, when on the marry, can
snap their fingers at the whole bench of Bishops.
A very low church minister was accusing
his curate with having taken part in a wedding
breakfast. “But, sir, said the young man, in
amazement, “our Lord himself was present at a
wedding feast in Cana.” “ That’s perfectly true,
young man,” answered the parson; “but, in my
opinion, he had very much better have stayed
away.”
Humbug.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Tis a world that is full of deception,
Man’s methods are crooked and dark
(If you boast of the bump of Perception
You’ll freely endorse the remark).
A wit with a knowledge extended
Of everything false and unreal,
Hath stated that speech was intended
Our innermost thoughts to conceal.
If thoughts were laid bare for inspection,
How truthful his words would appear
(For myself, I admit, on reflection,
I often tell stories, I fear);
But, of all the old humbugging “shuffles,”
There’s this one I greatly abhor
(The temper of most men it ruffles)—
“ Why didn’t you see me before ?”
There’s a “ party ” who owes you a “ pony
Such trifles he’s apt to forget
(I’m bound to confess that when “ stony ”
I never remember a debt);
So you mention you want the “ brass ” badly.
He answers: “ I’ve just paid a score
At my tailor’s—he badgered me sadly;
Why didn’t you see me before ?”
At times you are bilious and ailing,
In whisky, perhaps, you indulge
(Even poets, like I, have a failing—
But this you must never divulge).
You call on the doctor, you ninny,
Who mutters: “ Your tongue, sir, is sore,
Now ” (then he annexes your guinea),
“ Why didn't you see me before ?”
Now, your friend has a racehorse—a beauty
(’Tis kept for a clever surprise)—
He assures you he’ll deem it his duty
To tell you whenever it “ tries.”
But he meets you Just after it winning.
Exclaiming, “ Dear boy, what a bore 1
I thought that you knew it was * spinning ’—
Why didn’t you see me before ?”
You’ve been “sacked ” from your last situation,
And wander about for a berth
(7 once went as clerk on a station—
The wretchedest place upon earth);
But the governors give you your answer,
And, smilingly, show you the door—
“ I just now engaged a new hand, sir.
Why didn’t you see me before ?”
Since thus our bad world is progressing,
’Twere certainly better to seek
A fresh one—this life is distressing
(I’ve had a most horrible week).
Grim Death, whom some find so unsightly.
Must never Impress you with awe;
When he comes, shake his hand, saying brightly,
“ Why didn’t you see me before ?”
NEW CHUM.
SOME WOMEN MIGHT BE INDUCED TO KEEP A SECRET—THUS.


THE AUSTRALIAN
Diamond Drill Company.
CONTRACTS will be undertaken by the above
Company to bore any sized holes, vertical or
horizontal, up to
3 INCHES, OR LARGER IF REQUIRED,
to any depth, at a reduction of 35 PER CENT.
BELOW ANY PREVIOUS CHARGE,
The Company, in all cases, will And their own
fuel and water for drilling’ purposes, and will make
no charge for loss of diamonds or wear and tear on
plant, and will also provide workmen engineers, &c.
13?“ The new duplex barrel, Introduced into the
colony by Mr. J. Coghlan, will bo used free of
charge to persons searching for minerals.
Mr. Coglan has every confidence, from his prac-
tical knowledge of the Diamond Drill, that he will
be able to give general satisfaction, as well as quick
despatch to all ordena addressed to the
Temporary Offices, 311 George-street.
JOHN COGHLAN,
General Manager, pro. tem.
Singer’s Sewing Machines.
TURNER & CO.
Are the Recognised Agents of the
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS:
2s. 0d. per week—2s. 6d. per week—3s. 0d. per week.
And no interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
iar BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE “SINGER,”
TURNER & COMPANY,
353 George-street.
THE ONLY “SINGER.”
Turner and Company,
578 GEORGE STREET.
VISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
FOR
CHEAPNESS, FIT, AND WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any
part of the Colony.
J. MASSEY & S01S\
10 Park Streef,
IMPORTERS
of
PIANOS,
by every maker
of renown, from
£35 and up-
wards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
Pianos! Pianos! Pianos!
FREE TRADE and NO MONOPOLY.
Live and Let Live, those are Our Mottoes.
It Is a well-known fact that the Foundations o
Colossal Fortunes have been established upon the
Profits arising from the SALE OF PIANOS in this
City during the past Twenty Years by those
having little or no knowledge of the Construction
and Details of the Pianoforte. While giving the
Public the benefit of our Mr. Young’s 26 years’
personal practical experience (5 years in John
Broadwood and Sons, London, and 30 in N.S.W.),
we will, at the same time, be satisfied with a fair
percentage on the Co-operative Principle, sharing
the Profits with our Customers. We will sell from
35 per cent, less than the same class of Instrument
can be Purchased at any Music Shop in Sydney,
and we will offer nothing for Sale we -cannot
guarantee. American Organs at proportionately
low prices. Also a Large Stock of Kohn’s Cele-
brated Austrian Furniture, a single article of
which we are gelling at Wholesale Prices.
Come and See Our LITTLE BEAUTIES In Wal-
nut and Full Iron Frame, at £25 cash, Eleswhere
£10 more, or under a Liberal Time Payment Sys-
tem.
George E. Young and Co.,
UST 285 PITT STREET,
South of Royal Arcade.
BRAUN’S WALTHAM WATCHES#
TOOK FIRST PRIZE
And all the Gold Medals at every Exhibition.
MADE ESPECIALLY FOR
B. BRAUN,
Watchmaker, Jeweller, & Optician t
376 GEORGE STREET,
Near the Post Office.
The Largest Stock of Waltham Watches In Sydney
000 to select from.
Sllvbr Walthams from £3 to £13
Gold Walthams from £8 to £45.
warranted from two to seven years.
XW" Only at B. BRAUN, 370 George Street
Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREA L' LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favourite remedy. Wo all suffer more
or less from liver tomnlaint, thereby hindering
other organs from 1 ulttLlng their functions. Set
the liver in order by taking the above remedy, and
heart, lungs, brain, and stomach will unite in
graceful chorus.
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The true invigorator. If your vital forces are
depressed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of coming
disaster, your liver is unequal to its work. To
obviate aU these symntoms there is no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABRAHAM’S FILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion of
the maladies and ailments attacking the human
frame are really due t o a disordered liver. Set this
organ in order and health returns as if by magic.
CAUTION I O THE PUBLIC.
As there are imitaiions, ask for ABRAHAM'S
PILLS. See that each box, by whomsoever sold,
bears the inventor’s name and trade mark. The
Labor at try,
434 George Street, Sydney.
TVf'ONEY LOANS GRANTED at moderate lnt«-
ItI rest on Furniture (without possession),
Deeds, Bonds, Certlfloates, Shares, or other Secu-
rities, payable to suit convenience.
No Deduction made from amount Required,
which will be paid in f ull within twelve hours of
application.
MONT DE PIETE CENTRAL LOAN OFFICE,
98 Cabtlheaoh Street,
One door South of King Street.
E S,
WORKING CLASS
GENERATE YOUR OWN GAS.
Apply to
L). KEELf AND CO.,
71 Gou lburn -street, Sydney.
Dealers in Portable Gas, Gasaliers, Lamps, and
Fluid. Comfort, Economy, and Safety.
Mr. Kecly, on behalf of the Patent Portable Gas
Co., had charge of the lighting of the hall and
supper rooms at the Hay Demonstration, and the
lighting of Croydon Station. He undertakes to
teach his customers in three minutes the mode of
lighting.
A liberal discount wil 1 be given to storekeepers
on remittances per orders, and goods forwarded
with quick despatch. Orders and remittances to
be sent to the above address. No orders attended
to without remittance.
LIST OF PRICES:
4 Light Gasalier .. .. ..,
3 do do
2 do do
Wall bracket lamp, burn IB hours
do do 9 do
Table lamps, 2 branch
do 1 do
Brass Brackets ..
All Globes and Fittings
Fluid, in cases, 8 gal
1 gal. fluid gives a light equal to 12s worth kero-
sene. Instructions as to tl e mode of lighting sent
to clients with despatch of goods.
Goods sent to all pai ts of the Colonies.
70s
60s
35s to 45s
17s Od
15s
60s
45s
40s
Ss extra
2sBdper gal.
EVERY DESCRIPTION OF FISHING TACKLE,
Wholesale and Retail.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE STREET.
<*v
DINNER,
ONE SHILLING.
I «
« 3
o H
T S
pa
0<
PITT STREET,
CD
13
w s
y h
> S
V
NEXT TATTERSALL’S. V)
All Neals One Shilling.
J. C. GREENFIELD, PuopiuetOil
ERNEST CARTER,
Wardell Saw and Planing Mills,
RICHMOND RIVER.
, I*'* All Timber is thoroughly seasoned before It
leaves these Mills, and is very light for carriage
up-country, and fit for immediate use.
PINE, CEDAR, BEECH, FLOORING, LINING.
Mou Idings, Architraves. The Trade only Supplied.
A. GORMAN.
Late of the Telegraph Hotel, In verell,
HAS OPENED THE
‘ Claren-d-oan,’
Corner of ELIZABETH & PARK Streets,
And which he Intends to keep as a first-class Hotel,
A. G. hopes, by strict attention to Business, to
gain a share of their PATRONAGE. VISITORS
will find this surpasses most of the leading
HOTELS for ACCOMODATION and every CON-
VENIENCE ; and, as it overlooks HYDE PARK, It
must necessarily be WELL VENTILATED.
SUITES of ROOMS for FAMILIES,
as per agreement.
HOT and COLD "WATER BATHS.
PORTER In Attendance Day and Night.
It Is not necessary to mention the quality of the
VINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, &c. &c„ as he (& and al-
ways has been, noted throughout the COLONIES
(or Belling nothing but the very best.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
jar THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. liiatured.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.'S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It Is bottled in bond for Ex> • H at the Distillery.
Dublin, and consumers may, t rel'ore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ hiskoy Doctors.”
When you ask lor it, see that you got it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
YDROPATH Y.— MR. JOSEPH REEVE;
Hydropathic Physician.
An Infallible System of Purification for the Cure
of Coughs, Colds Acute or Ch ronic Indigestion, Con-
stipation, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Paralysis, Liver
Complaint, Skin Eruptions, or any other Inflam-
matory Diseases. All persons who are suffering,
and weary of using physic, and hopeless, are in-
vited to adopt this Hygiene System. A few weeks’
treatment will suffice for nearly every case.
Ladies and Children attended to. In-door Patients
received at the Establishment. Terms on
application.
“Throw physic to the dogs, I’ll none of it.”—
Shakespeare
“Purification in the old law did save life.” Milton.
Address :
8 Royal Terrace, 1 ,.Nicholson Street,
FITZROY, MELBOURNE.
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE
COFFEE PALACE,
231 GEORGE STREET NORTH.
JOHN JOHNSON, PROPRIETOR.
HAYING opened the above, the Proprietor has
supplied a want long felt in Sydney. The
first floor contains spacious Ladies and Gentle-
men’s Dining and Drawing Rooms, also Suites and
Single Bedrooms (viz., 45 bedrooms), will be open
shortly. A trial solicited.
CALL AND INSPECT.
THOMAS MUNRO,
HERALDIC ARTIST AND ENGRAVER,
PLAIN AND FANCY STATIONER,
10 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
A Large and varied assortment of Letter Books,
Account Books, and all office requisites. Purses,
Albums. Plush Bags, and Reticules; Artists’ Mate-
rials, Photo, and Picture Frames, Illuminated
Scripture and other texts. Birthday, Condolence,
and Memorial Cards.
Agent for August Huenerbein for Pianos, Or-
gans, and Music. The Engraving workshop being
under my own management, I feel confluent in
suiting the public taste.
AMERICAN MIXED PAINTS
A. & T. PRINGLE & CO.,
IMPORTERS OF MACHINERY , &c.,
44 MARKET STREET
(Between York and Clarence Streets, Sydney),
HAVE received a supply of;these celebrated
PAINTS, prepared for immediate use. For
brilliancy of colour and elegance of finish they far
surpass anything that has been offered to the
public. They can be applied by anyone, either on
wood or iron.
Also for sale—Kalsomlnc, all kinds of Lubricating
and Machinery Oils, Bidwell’s Axle Grease, &c.
Prices on application.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
WIRE WORKERS,
\MTlSH to coll your attention to WIRE GOODS
Y V we make and have in stock as under
FLOWER STANDS, for bolding flowers in pots,
made of iron and wire, handsomely framed and
bronzed, suitable for rooms, halls, balconies, ver-
andahs, and conservatories. Also, WIRE FERN
BASKETS, all sizes and prices.
SIEVES and SCREENS, for screening lime,
gravel, coal, &c., all meshes, from 1 hole to 100
holes to the squares inch.
WIRE LATTICE-WORK, for protection of win-
dows from breakage caused by hail-storms or boys’
throwing stones. Also, WIRE NETTING, ail sizes,
from 1 2 in. to 73 in. wide.
CAGES of every description, for canaries and
parrots, singly or in nests, suitable for store-
keepers.
And every description of WIRE WORK made on
the premises.
EASTWAY, BROTHERS,
413 GEORG E-STREET.
J3f“ Illustrated Catalogues on application.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
IF your Chemist or Grocer cannot or will not
supply you with the “ PAINLESS CORN
RELIEVER,” write direct to the Registered Pro-
prietor. who will forward a bottle to all parts of
Australasia, Post Free, for 2s. 6d.
Address :-JOHN CLOWES,
One Mile Creek, Qympie.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
FOWLER’S POTTERY and
BRICKWORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
The federal bank of Australia
(Limited)
Incorporated under Act of Parliament.
CAPITAL, £1000,000 ; SUBSCRIBED, £665,000.
Directors •
The Hon. W. A. Brodribb, M.L.C., Chairman.
W. H. Bldred, Esq., J.P.
Robert Hudson,
esq., J.
, Esq.
F. T. Humphery, Esq.
M.P.
J. Y. Mills, Esq., J.P.
Manager ; F. S. Macdermott.
Accountant: John Docker.
Solicitors : Messrs. Robertson, Fisher, and Ralfe.
Temporary Banking House, 357 George-street,
North, with branch at the Haymarket.
Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies
and in Europe.
Highest rates of interest given on Deposits, and
all usual Banking business transacted without
delay to customers.
F. S. MACDERMOTT, Manager.
IV. H. Ariel! and Co.’sAgencies.
SWALLOW & ARTELL’S prize Biscuits, Canter-
bury, Normanby, and Christmas Family Cakes,
Plum Puddings, Mincemeat, Self-raising
ASrated Flour, Infant’s Food, Treacle and
Golden Syrup.
EXCELSIOR MILLS.—Superior Victorian Oat-
meal and Pearl Barley.
DILLON & BURROWS' prize assorted Confec-
tionery.
J. KITCHfBN & SONS, No. 1 Mottled and Toilet
Soaps.
J. F. M f KENZIE & CO.’S Coffee, Mustard, Cocoa,
Tea, in and lib. packets; dressed Rice,
and Patent Groats.
HUNT & CO.’S Prize Baking Powders, Adelaide
Jams' Paper Bags, &c.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
gECURE A LOT AT SPRINGSIDE;
£1 DEPOSIT, £1 PER MONTH.
FORTUNATUS FINANCIAL, LAND, AND
INVESTMENT COMPANY,
3 17 PITT STREET,
Near Temperance Hall.
DANCING.— Prof. WEST’S Classes. — private
Lessons, Monday and Thursday mornings;
afternoon classes, Thursdays. Evening: Beginners,
Mondays, 8 p.m.; Thursdays, 7.30 p.m.; Advanced,
8.30 p.m., at Tattersall’s New Hall, Hunter-street.
Second term now commencing. During present
school holidays there will be time for private
lessons in new waltz, &c. 251 Elizabeth-street.
The Dancing Academy being the largest in
Sydney, there are now vacancies, quarter dating
from entrance.
SHOUT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
T EDTARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON.—The
_U drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try It the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
THE HARWOOD
Fibre Chair Seating,
Possessing all the qualities of a perfect seat. viz. :
Strength, Durability, Ease, Beauty, Cleanliness
and Cheapness.
THIS CHAIR SEAT is made from the strongest
known fibres and a perfectly waterproof
cement, and after fifteen years’ constant use, we
can speak positively as to Its merits. It cannot
split or check, neither will exposure to sun or rain
affect It.
Awarded Gold Medal at the late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
For RE-SEATING It is unrivalled. In every
bouse, store and office, are chairs with seats broken.
Any person can re-seat and make as good as new a
chair that is otherwise worthless, at a very trifling
expense.
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE FOR HOME USB.
Agents Wanted in Every District.
From £3 to £6 a week can be made by any smart
man or boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
82 CLARENCE STREET.
■ a
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
er - THE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco of the Age !
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The only Tobacco combining Excellence of Quality
with Economy In Price.
SST’ Each PLUG Is STAMPED with the word
“ EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain it.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
Saywell’s Toheeo Co., Lint.
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
And can be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse,
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO.
Registered according to Act of Parliament, to pro-
tect the public against spurious and worthless
imitations.


C °UNT RUMf055
Tflfili
Prepared according: to the directions o Prof.
E. N. Hereford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED FOR
DYSPEPSIA, HEADACHE. INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA. WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS.
WEAKENED ENERGY, &C.
No Danger can Attend its Use.
Nervous Depression from Overwork.
Sluggish Circulation amt L rowing Chil-
dren.
Sandusky. O., May 21,1880
I have used your Acid Phosphate and can pro
nounce it a very valuable addition. I flnditugp'
ful and beneficial in nervous dyspepsia, nervous
depression f ollowing overwork and anxiety, as well
as the, gastric derangements. Where there ia
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation, a dull
heavy head, it is of undoubted value. Past grow’
ing children require this valuable addition.
1 W. R. PAGE, M.D.
1 Liver and Kidney Derangements.
Boston, Mass., May 18,1880
In regard to the Hereford's Acid Phosphate! I
have used it very extensively, and with tho most
remarkable success.
I give it in dyspepsia and in all cases where there
Is derangement or tho liver and kidneys. With
my patients it has agreed wonderfully.
O. G, GILLEY, M.D.
Nerve Tonic.
A. S. Carpenter, M,D., Keene, N.H., says :
“ Hereford’s Acid Phosphate is a valuable medi-
cine. I have taken it myself, and for several
years prescribed it for my patients, when suffering
from indigestion or innervation of tho digestive
organs, and alwavs with satisfactory results. It is
a good nerve tonic, and in some cases of morbid
urine, 4 it acts like a charm,’ producing the desired
result. It is pleasant to the i aste, acceptable to the
stomach, and is, in my opinion, an excellent and
valuable compound.”
Can be borne by the most Sensitive
Stomachs.
Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 1880.
Hereford's Acid Phosphate, in elegance of com-
position, stands unrivalled, it is pleasant to the
taste, and can be borne by the most sensitive
stomach. Have prescribed it with marked benefit
in indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms an
excellent substitute for lemon juice, and as such
will furnish a refreshing drink for the sick.
A, L. HALL, M.D.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
Historic on,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
44 It leke a Charm. 1 ”
It is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives tho weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches fire. It cures
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Braises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burnt, Lome Back, Biheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an internal remedy it tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion and readily cures Colic,
Cholera morbus. Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, S ire Throat, and Hyp-
therla.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use In
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers in
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best Imported into this country, and have
gained throughout the colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested befort
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. 1
leather, and the upholstery is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes arc
used in their finish
BECAUSE they ure each and all built under specie 1
instructions to, and personal supervision of.
one of the leading carriage builders in America.
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say they are tbf
best.
American Carriage Emporium,
WTNYAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
BARRON, MOX1IAM & CO.,
Sole Agentl.
This is how the Contemporary speaks of
the poor in England “The admirably logical
social life that religiously shuts a’l the museums
and picture galleries on the Lord’s day, and opens
all the gin shops; that is never tired of iterating
that the proper sphere of woman is home, and
brings up its 20,000 female orphans in large pauper
barracks, from which the last touch of home life
has disappeared ; that goes to meetings and loudly
preaches thrift to the people, and then gruffly
whispers in their ear by guardians of the poor:
‘Only be drunk and spendthrift enough, and we
will house you and provide for your old age
that goes to church and preaches that the body is
the temple of the Holy Ghost, and leaves the
people to litter down like pigs at n’ght—men and
women, girls and boys together, in tenements
where no rich man would think of stabling his
horses : that goes to school and teaches its chil-
dren the three It’s, and leaves them in dens of
infamy to learn a fourth K, by every sight and
sound of the day and night, ruin of body and soul;
that virtuously declaims against the harlot, yet
leaves its little girls to be brought up in brothels ;
that believes a fatal disorder is undermining the
national health, and shuis the doors of its hospitals
against it, and denics it the publiemeans of cure;
that legally protects the heiress up to 21, and re-
fuses to protect the poor man’s daughter even at
10 from the trade of vice : that holds that the man
is the responsible head of tho woman, and throws
the blame and disgrace on the woman—leaves
abundant cause to complain of tho methods of our
moral life.” Now then, you who claim that re-
ligion suppoits civilisation and strews our paths
with flowers, fell us what you think of this !
At Ormond College (Presbyterian), Mel-
bourne, the llev. A. J. Campbell, professor of
“systematic theology,” lectured on heterodoxy and
Higinbothani. Among other things, he said: “I
pledged my church that no shutters should over
be put upon its (Ormond College) windows. I pro-
mised that all light which came to it would get
entrance, provided it were light from Heaven.' Pre-
cisely. This has been the platform of theologians
since John saw visions at Patinos, or wherever he
was located. But tho light should be welcomed
for Itself, and too curious inquiries into its source
discountenanced. It would bo interesting, no
doubt, to bo able to tell whether the statements
and deductions in the “ Origin of Species ” were
direct inspirations from Heaven or from Hades.
It would bo far more interesting to hear that
they were true. Mr. Campbell dwells on
the necessity tor a “ scientific training ”
in theology. It would be just as feasible to
speak of a scientific training in astrology or in
witchcraft. How can a scientific training be given
or received on a subject that has about as much
claim to be based on scientific principles as the
dream book of Napoleon ? Dispute the axiom that
the whole is greater than a part, and mathematics
fall to tho ground. It cannot be disputed, so
Euclid is safe. But the honafldes of the principles
on which theologians have erected their “ science "
is called in question every day. The leading
thinkers of tho world say there is nothing in them.
To call such a superstructure a scientific one is
merely to twist words out of their proper and ob-
vious meaning. Mr. Campbell’s gravest charge
against the Judge is that he has given us a human
instead of a divine Christ. It is just as well, per-
haps, to put the shutters up, for light like this is
trying and irritating.
Down North (never mind the town) there
is aP.M., who has a good many weaknesses, but his
chief one is to send to a jury every unfortunate
brought before him. The evidence may be weak—
it may be wanting. “D the evidence,” the
accused is run in to await trial. At tho last
moment the law officers refuse to prosecute, and
the accused (having paid fees which are never,
never returned) .has tho satisfaction of knowing
that he is an honest man. The P.M.’s peculiarities
are made tho most of by some. For instance, a
man has a supposititious claim against his neigh-
bour. He has a grudge, too, and so puts the
criminal instead of the civil law in motion. One
partner denies the existence of partnership, and
charges his mate with embezzlement. He sub-
sequently acknowledges that the stolen moneys
are due for commission, etc , and that the accused
was quite right in “freezing" to them. He also
admits that the sums in dispute (if any) might bo
recovered in a Small Debts’ Court. All the same
the man goes for trial. Tho plaintiff's evidence
concerning entries made by himself—no books
being produced—is allowed, and the defendant's
mouth padlocked. No primafacie case is required
in some instances—the onus of disproof being left
with the prisoner. Some people complain of this,
but it is absurd to try to please everybody.
Up Bungalongo way the sergeant called
on the doctor, and asked him to join a party going
nut to catch a bushranger, remarking: “There’ll
be plenty of blood and hair fiyin’ about.” The
doctor consented, and, next morning, doctor, ser-
geant, and three constables made a start (the police
lu plain clothes). On the fourth day out they saw
a man riding in the distance. The sergeant imme-
diately ordered a halt, and, in a mellifluous brogue,
proceeds to plan tho cam pal sru. Sergeant; “Two
of you min ride round on the flank: and, doctor
and constable Mulrooney, as you are well mounted,
ride round on the other side and head tho black-
guard.” “And what are you going to do, ser-
geant?” tho doctor mildly suggested. Sergeant:
“Shure, an’ I'll guard the retrait. ’ The doctor
and constable thereupon rode round, headed the
supposed bushranger, and the poor man was bai od
up with: “Stand, or I'll blow your brains out!”
At this juncture tho sergeant rode up at a gallop,
and, with his revolver pointed at the man’s head,
broke out: “Phat’s your name? If you sphake
I’ll blow your brains out! Phat's your name, you
blackguard ? If you open your mouth I’ll scatter
your brains on the flure!” Then the doctor inter-
fered, and in a few minutes it was made clear that
they had collared the wrong man. The unfortu-
nate thereupon — having apologised fpr not
being the bushranger— got a cut on tho shoulders
from one of the constables, and a request to clear
out and go to—well, it doesn’t matter.
How rapidly these Chinese adopt civilised
habits ! Plant a Chinaman down in a country, and,
while a European would be looking for a job, he
will have squeezed himself into some niche in the
social fabric, and adapted himself to his surround-
ings. At Canterbury (N.Z.), Ah Chee was the co-
respondent in the divorce case of Holt y. Holt.
Mrs. Holt appears to have been what is vaguely
understood as “ a nut.” She would stop out all
night, or go for a trip to Melbourne, and wonder
on her return what made the old man so grumpy.
He tried to cure her once or twice by hauling her
round the house by the hair, but she still went out
at night, “ nursing a friend's child.” She was com-
monly thick in her speech when she came home;
and so long as there was any furniture or delf in
the house, she smashed it pour pa sserle temps. Well,
Holt came home one night, and, having opened the
door with a kick, he struck a match. Then he
saw his wife in bed alone, while Ah Chee was
in a corner of the room making a hasty toilet.
He had no coat, waistcoat, hat or boots on, and
when asked what the &c. he was doing there,
meekly replied: “It’s all light.” He explained
further that he had come for money for vege-
tables, but Holt received the statement with some
doubt. In cross-examination, Holt admitted bav-
ing done time “ for taking what did not belong to
me,” but denied having asked Ah Ghee to prepare
a remedy for his wife’s toothache. “I said r Not to-
day, John.’ He said: ‘I have got some toothache
for the Missus.’ I said ‘Where is it?’ He said:
‘ Mo give it her myself.’ ” Ah Ghee’s evidence was
received with incredulity, notwithstanding that he
blew out a match and decapitated a fowl before
starting. Holt is single once again, and so ends the
sensational divorce case of Canterbury.
The “Dow” family is large, but our business
lies with two only. It has nothing to do with that
unfortunate fellow (teste Bret Harte) who struck
gold when ho should have got water. T. K. Dow
went to America as agricultural reporter for The
Australasian, while J. L. prospected the same
lode for the Age and Leader. J. L. had travelled
before and knew things. Among others, he knew
that when a man wants to write about a place he
should never go near it. So, being a welcome
guest at Government House, he asked the
‘ Markis”to turn all the children out and give him
the run of the nursery for g week. Then he sat
down, ran his fingers through his hair, and wrote
the best four letters on the Pacific Slope since the
Mayflower knocked the gable-end off Plymouth
Book. Then he sloped aboard a steamer, and,
while the immense Pacific smiled on him and its
ten thousand little isles, his etters—not for this
or that Age, but for anyone who didn’t know him
—were published in Melbourne, and dwelt with
oriental Imagery on the sea-lions, the Sandlots,
Palace Hotel, and vegetation of California. So
The Australasian took down its little hatchet,
and shewed that when the letters were published
the writer was a few thousand miles off the land
he was on his road to describe. This had a tendency
to weaken the good understanding that has
hitherto existed between the Age and Argus
people. It had also a tendency to shake people’s
faith in several things.
In one of the indignant letters which have
lately appeared in the Freeman's Journal
concerning the odorous comparison made by
“Amiens” of London Society between Dr.
Vaughan and Dr. Goold, there is a sentence from
the pen of a “ Melbourne Priest,” which reads very
strangely in the light of recent events. He says:
“ And yet the man that brought about these grand
results is now, in the decline of a beautiful and
well-spent life, at a ripe old age, cruelly insulted
by having himself put into comparison with an
active young man. full of life and vigour, who in
sober truth is only a boy. after all, in years or
’ works or administrative ability.” And, to-day, the
old man is alive and hale, and the man of vigour is
senseless clay. Sic vita.
Tom Nineham’s yarn, descriptive of the
manner in which the murder of Captain Belbin at
Ambryn, New Hebrides, was avenged by a party
landed from H.M.S. Dart, is realistic enough. It
records, inter alia, that though the villagers in
question are blessed with the presence of a mis-
sionary in their neighbourhood, they have got no
gratitude! We should much like to hear tne vil-
lagers' yarn. When a letter of apology from the
Bishop of London was read at a dinner-party,
stating ho was unable to keep his appointment, a
dog having rushed at him and bitten him in the
leg, Sydney Smith observed : “ I should like to
hear the dog’s account of the story.”
The Deceased Wife’s Sister Bill was thrown
out in the Lords, partly through the solid vote of
the bishops, and partly through the absence of
some peers who had voted for the second reading.
This has brought to the front questions, frequently
asked before, but never so clamorously as now.
In fact, the expediency of having churchmen in
the house at all, is canvassed, in company with a
much graver matter—the expediency of hereditary
legislators—Ishmaelites, owning allegiance to no
one. and who, when not depopulating Scotch moors,
or Irish bogs, aresuroto be found blocking tho lino
in front of the engine “ progress” with the stones
and wood junks of prejudice. Some defend the
bishops, and say they have a perfect right to speak
and vote “according to their consciences.” This
sounds plausible enough, but the deuce of it is that
when grave questions of practical legislation are
on the tapis, consciences all run in tho same direc-
tion, and that the wrong one.
Rev. E. J. Sttirde read a paper on “ Promo-
tions in Sunday Schools,” the Dean of Sydney
presiding. This question is a burning one, and
will soon have to be settled one way or the other.
Things cannot continue as they are much longer.
Oh, the sad haif-hours we spent in the distant
past because the promotion in our class went by
favouritism (we were never favourites) rather
than sound religious knowledge! What was the
use, we often said, gloomily, in learning all about
Abraham, Isaac, Mary Magdalen. Nebucnadnezzer,
and Balaam’s ass, if we have to stick here right at
the wrong end, while Tony Lumpkin, who can’t say
his prayers and never heard of Simon the tanner,
is at the other end blown out with arrogance and
sugarstick ? Once, and once only, were we pro-
moted, but then ’twas a big rise. The wide world
was before us, and behind—thef sexton’s boot.
Then we left the church, and have been scoffers
and cynics ever since.
Under the title of the “ Bastilles of Eng-
land,” Louisa Howe tells us all about mad-houses
and how sane people are even now whisked off
—BISHOP HEBER.
there when their room is preferred to their com-
pany at home. A friend sends a couple of un-
assuming-looking medical men to your house.
They pretend to be book-agents or travellers for
some “silent perambulating pill,” and after a few
minutes’ converse, leave. Then they sign some
documents, and the next time you go out for a
stroll, three or four bruisers fall upon you, bundle
you into a cab, and deliver you at an asylum. If
you are a nervous or excitable subject, you may
last from twenty-four to forty-eight hours without
going mad. But some men have been known to
last a couple of months before dementia set in.
The most Reverend Henry Ward Beecher
says the S. F. Newsletter, celebrated his seven-
tieth birthday in New York, last Sunday, dressed
in new broadcloth clothes, and embowered as it were
in bouquets of camellias, smilax and roses. At
least 2000 persons were unable to gain admittance
to the church, presumably because they had not
got twelve-buttoned kid gloves and diamond ear-
rings in their ears. Tne services must have been
choked up with unutterable Christian sympathy
and love, and we have no doubt but that it took
half a dozen janitors all the afternoon to mop up
the grateful tears which the congregation left
behind.
This Wife’s Sister’s Bill has passed into the
“ nuisance” category. One wishes it settled, if only
to clear the ground for the deceased husband’s
brother to speak up. It’s bad enough when a man
with three or four bouncing slsters-in-law cannot
marry one of them, but it’s ten times worse when
a poor woman with half-a-dozen sturdy brothers-
in-law cannot take one for a husband. On the
first reading of the Bill in the House of Lords, the
opposers were defeated, and so the English religi-
gious papers attributed the defeat to the fact that
the clergy had neglected to use the prayer for the
High Court of Parliament. How this but been
done, all would be well.
Queen Victoria does not indulge in the
affectation of pretending not to road" the news-
papers. She takes a morning and an evening daily
and several weeklies. She is fond of novels, too.
’Enry Parkcs nsed to say, in a dignified manner,
“ Hi never read the newspapahs.” This was a half-
truth, and consequently a big lie. ’Enry used to
have in his office a clerk who had little else to do
but cutout of the “newspapahs” all paragxaphs
concerning his illustrious muster; and then, as
Parkcs never rend anything in the “ newspapahs”
except leaders and paragraphs about himself, he,
like a good many other snobs, fell into the error of
imagining that he was the “ haxis of the huni-
verse.”
Roses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
White roses for the maidens,
Red roses for the wed,
Rosemary for tho dead.
She took a white rose gailv
Last year to deck her head ;
Last month she wore a red.
To-day she wears no roses—
Ah! God that this should be!
Strew on her rosemary.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
A Picture.
The sun burns fiercely down the skies,
The sea is full of Hashing eyes,
The waves glide forward serpent-wise
And fawn with foamy tongues on stark
Gray rocks, each sharp-toothed as a shark,
And hiss in clefts and channels dark.
Blood-purple scon the waters grow,
As though drowned sea-kings fought below
Forgotten fights of long ago.
The grey owl Dusk its wings has spread,
The sun sinks in a blossom-bed
Of poppy-clouds; the day is dead.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
“ With most men you can do anything if you approach them with the right spirit.”


ASK FOR
OXfrf)tghtonfr
ag»^
LATE
"JAMES WALKER
EDINBURGH
\
Sj^Regislered
TO be had from ALL WINE AND SPIRIT MER-
CHANTS, and WHOLESALE from the
SOLE AGENTS:
JOSEPH BOYD & SON,
1 CHANGE ALLEY, PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Near the Circular Quay).
To be procured in Cases, Casks, Octaves, and Jars
tW" Please read Certificates of its purity ; also,
Certificates from the 42nd Royal Highland Regi-
ment, “THE BLACK WATCH,” and the 71st High-
land Light Infantry, &c., &c., as supplied them by
JAMBS WALKER, for 14 years, till his death, and
still supplied to them by JAMES HADDOW & CO.,
the purchasers of James Walker’s business, with
the right to use his name on all Labels, Invoices,
Seals, and his Trade marks and symbols.
JS" Notice—The above label registered.
JOSEPH BOYD & SON.
WRIGHT, HEATON & GO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE :
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.S.W.:
Northern District, N.S.W.;
Morpeth Brewarrina
Gunnedah Tam worth
Narrabrl Uralla
Walgett
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Lins:
Brisbane Yeulba
Roma Cambooya
Dalby
Centrai, Line:
Rockhampton Capella
Bogantungan Comet
Emerald
Northern Line:
Townsville Ravenswood Junction
Charters Towers
Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M CULLOCH ft CO., LIMITED.
ty Agencies in all parts of the world.
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have yourU mbrell i Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly
outed.
New South Wales Racing Com-
pany’s Consultations
METROPOLITAN STAKES
(To be RUN at RAND WICK TUESDAY,
September 4), and
MELBOURNE CUP.
50,000 Shares at 10s. per Share—£25,000.
1st Horse £4000 I Starters £1000
2nd „ 20001 Non-Starters ... 2000
3rd ., 10001
For 149 Horses £10,000
117 Prize Gifts.—266 Prizes in all.
1 Prize Gift
2
£4000
„ .. 2000
„ .. 1000
„ at £600 1000
„ at 250 1000
117 Prize Gifts ...
8 Prize Gifts, at 125 £1000
20 „ at £100 2000
40 „ at 50 2000
40 „ at 25 1000
£15,000
Application by Letter only, addressed to the Secre-
tary, No. 2 Wentworth Court, Elizabeth-streot ;•
or Box 255, G.P.O., Sydney.
P.S.—Applicants will please state for which event.
All parties are requested to forward Drafts, P.O.
Orders, or Cheques ; if Cash, to register letters.
Results sent to Shareholders and published in the
Leading Weekly Papers of the Colonies.
The Drawing will take place before a Committee
of Shareholders.
W. BURNHARD.
MA8COTTE CONSULTATIONS.
METROPOLITAN, & MELBOURNE CUP, 1883.
Metropolitan, 5000 shares at 10s. each ... £2500
Melbourne Cup, 10,000 shares at 10s. each £6000
SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE.
Prospectus on application.
The La Mascotte Company thanks the public for
their support in previous consultations, and hope«
for a continuance of their patronage for this pro-
gramme.
Application, by letter only.
Applicants please state for which event.
D. LINDO, No. 8 Tattersall's Chambers, Hunter-
street, and Box 723, P.O., Sydney.
03000 on MELBOURNE CUP.
3U 1883.
The Third Consultation of my 1883 Series.
“AUSTRALASIA” SWEEP.
12,000 Shares, at 5s each.—An even 4, £1.
First Horse
Second Horse ..
Third Horse
Starters divide ..
Non-Starers
Total. £2000.
£1000
500
250
150
100
10 Prizes at £25—£250
50 „ 10- 600
50 „ B- 260
£1000
Grand total, £3000
The success of former events induces me to an-
nounce the next on the Melbourne Cup, tho
greatest racing event of the year, as above.
Results advertised in leaning papers, and for-
warded to all subscribers. A pound secures four
chances— not one only. Ten per cent, is deducted
for all expenses. Applicants are requested to en-
close notes, P.O.O., or crossed cheques (to which
exchange must be added), and 4d. stamps for reply
and result. Register letters.
Address —“ AUSTRALASIA,”
Care of Mr. H. J. FRANKLIN,
Printer and Publisher,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
“D
M
N
D.*
MELBOURNE CUP CONSULTATION 1883.
Capital £10,000 in 20,000 Shares of 10 shillings each
DISTRIBUTED AS FOLLOWS:—
First Horse.. .. £3000 2 Prizesof £350 each, £500
Second Horse .. 2000 5 Prizes of 100 „ 500
Third Horse .. 1000 10 Prizes of 60 „ 600
Starters divide .. 1000 20 Prizes of 25 „ 800
Non-starters .. 500 50 Prizes of 10 ,, 600
£10,000
Application by stamp, to
Care of O. Sehlebllch,
Watchmaker and Jeweller,
17 Little Colllns-street East, Melbourne,
(Near Colonial Bank.)
Prizes paid one day after drawing, and Horse*
paid two days after event.
Result slips posted to each Subscriber, and also
advertised In daily and weekly papers. Shares sent
per return post. Prospectus on application.
Letters containing cash should be registered.
If country cheques, must bear exchange.
N.B.—“Diamond,” in thanking numerous clients
for their support in previous successful racing
seasons, invites their co-operation in the above.
£3000
For 2s. 6d.
£3000
A COLOSSAL FORTUNE for HALF-A-CROWN
The “ GREAT VICTORY ” SWEEP on the MEL-
BOURNE CUP, 1883.
To be Run on the 6th November.
This Gigantic Sweep, offering advantages to the
public never before attempted, is the property of
a bond fide Company with responsible directors.
CAPITAL: £10,000, divided into 80,000 Shares of
2s. 6d. each.
Also, over 1000 Prizes guaranteed, and distributed
as follows :—
1st horse ..
2nd horse ..
3rd horse ..
Starters divide
Non-starters do.
20 Prizes at £50
£3000
1000
500
500
250
1000
40 Prizes at £25 ,.£1000
We shall send 9 tickets for a pound.
100 do. 10 .. 1000
200 do. 5 .. 1000
750 do. 1 .. 750
,|W “ 1 .. £10,000
Not less
than 2 sent to any single address. Send P. O. order,
cheques, or bank notes. If stamps are sent, add
exchange at the rate of Is. in the pound. Should
coin be sent, register letter. Please send 3d. extra
for membership.
The drawing will take place on the 1st November,
and will be conducted by a committee of 150 Share-
holders drawn from the entire body. The result
will be posted to all Shareholders immediately,
and advertised throughout the colonics.
Tickets sent by return post.
Write at once for prospectus. No charge.
Address—“ VICTORY,”
Care of George Robertson, 94 Bourke-street,
Next Opera House, Melbourne.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and Magazines received by
every Mall.
ROYAL ARCADE. 496 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY,
ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS,
AND
r__ PREPARED ONLY 8V W.4SL
_ Thomas in oh am
Rockhampton
D. & R. BRADFORD,
Ironfounders, General
Blacksmiths, &c.,
“CITY FOUNDRY,”
W 121 LIVERPOOL STREET,
and at
201 ELIZABETH STREET,
Between Bathurst and Park Streets.
All kinds of Ornamental Castings, Wrought Iron
Palisadings, Wrought and Cast Iron Girders. Cast
Iron Water Pipes, Connections, Water and Fire
Plugs.
Estimates given for all kinds of Ironwork, &o.
K
IRKER, GREER, & CO., DISTILLERS
BELFAST and GLASGOW.
LOCH DHU, very oldest and purest Scotch
whiskey.
SHAMROCK, very oldest and purest Irish
Whiskey.
Won 4 Gold Medals and Australian Exhibitions.
Government Analyst says: Unusually pure,
mellow, and well-matured.
FROM ALL SPIRIT MERCHANTS.
Agent: G. ADAMS,
119 Pitt-st., Sydney, and Flinders-st., Melboumne
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £410
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn shelters
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
&c. &c. &c.
HEBBLEWHITE &CO.
416 GEORGE STREET.
BLEND
{trade}
JMAR&i
Sc/ste^S
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.-Thls is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
Dining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Solo
Agents.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. Jambs Curtis,
TJn dlert alcex,
84 HUNTER & PHILIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
JOHN DANKS,
IMPORTER OF
Bicycles ai Tricycles
AND ALL THE NECESSARY
Fittings for same,
363 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Foster ’s Bugle Brand.
QENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
•••is
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ys in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWA R E,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &o.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 QEORGE STREET.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
mo CONNOI8BUR8 of WHISKEY & BRANDY.
J. W. & A. Gilley’s CASTLE BRAND WHIS-
KEY and L’OR EXTRAIT BRANDY are the
oldest and purest spirits imported.
TUCKER & CO., Agents,
377 George-street.
HUST’S BOOT EMPORIUM, 404 GEORGE St.,
near King-street.
Gents’ Boots, French Calf or Kid, superior quality,
from 10s. 0d.
Superior Ladles’ Extra High Glace Kid Button
Boots, superior quality, from 10s. 6d.
Ladies’ Evening Shoes, a great variety, from 4s. 6d.
M
ELBOURNE CUP, 1883
LEVIATHAN “ADAMASTOR” COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £20,000 in 40,000 SHARES of 10s Each.
624 PRIZES (more or less), £12,750 for STARS,
and £7250 for HORSES.
Plan of Astronomical Distribution:
First Horse (winner of the Melbourne Cup)... £3000
Second Horse 1500
Third Horse .. .. ’ , 750
Starters (divide) 800
Non-starters (do) 1200
V First Star £2000 V
V Second Star 1000 V
*** Third Star 500 V
12 stars of £200 each, 100 stars of £100 each, 20
stars of £50 each, 20 stars of £40 each, 45 stars of £25
each, 100 towns of £10 each, 200 towns of £8 each,
85 towns of £6 each, and “ the comet ” £40.
“Adamastor,” in thanking his subscribers for the
liberal support that he has received from them for
the past three years, and in consequence of the
yearly increase of subscribers, finds it necessary to
double his programme, which he begs herewith to
submit.
All parties are requested to forward drafts, P.O.
orders, or cheques; if cheques, exchange must be
added, and in all cases postage fees; if cash, to
register letter. Application by letter only, ad-
dressed— „ „ A _
ADAMASTOR,” care of L. A. Pereira, JM
Bourke-street, west, Melbourne: Box 473, G.P.O.,
Sydney; and Little’s Bass Hotel, corner Pitt and
Market Streets, Sydney. . . ,.
P.S.—Results sent to country shareholders, and
Sublished in The Australasian, Ao®, and Sydney
:own and Country.


“ Haxvkeye ” suggests that our Jumbo
should be called Dot. Why not “Lucas” —the
brute is pachydermatous.
At Northcote (Vic.), a sacred concert was
given to provide funds for fencing in the Pres-
byterian Church. This is to keep Htglnbotham
out.
In the ladies’ gallery of the House of Com-
mons, two old maids, hearing that the “ Corrupt
Practices Bill ” xvas about to be discussed, went for
the door to escape unpleasantness.
The Queensland Premier excuses his re-
missness in answering Mr. Service’s despatch by
saying he was “at sea” xvhen it arrived.
since John Bull repudiated the annexation, M‘I1-
wraith has been a good deal at sea.
The Herald says the Marquis of Bland-
ford, who succeeds to the Dukedom of Marl-
borough, is a very adxmnced Radical. From all
xve have heard and read of the most noble Mar-
quis, we should think he xvas very far advanced
—ou the road to Gehenna.
It is now nearly two years since Mrs.
Watson tragically died on the Lizard Islands, and
subscriptions to raise a memento xvere sent from
different colonies. Yet her grave has not even a
stone to mark it, and the treasurer and secretary
of the funds have never published a balance sheet.
They are threatened xvith legal measures.
“ I am of opinion,” said Sancho Panza, “it
is good to gox-ern, even though it be but a Hock of
sheep.” And he wasn’t far out, either, for wo
notice that the surviving members of the late N.S W.
Government look as if they had never enjoyed a
square meal since they lost their billets, while the
members of the present Ministry appear as if they
had been at one huge banquet ever since the pro-
rogation.
V German in Victoria has devoted his
bu.ilays for the last six years to constructing a
gen .(logical, chronological, and biographical chart
of B; i ish sovereigns. It begins with Julius Caesar
and ends xvith Victoria. In this country there is a
grand future for the man xvho devotes his time to
genealogy. He should come to Sydney, xvhere
more thrilling memoirs could bo raked up than
those to be obtained from all the Saxon kings.
Cetewayo “ demands an inquiry ” into the
circumstances xvhich led to the recent hostilities.
This comes of putting these fellows mtp pants, and
showing them London Bridge. But it is too thin.
Having scalped one of our corps, a few years ago,
ho asked for an Inquiry, and a dozen regiments or
cavalry and infantry were sent to make it. the
court was held at Ulundi, and the evidence went
against him. Now he wants another. Zulus ana
bush missionaries are never satisfied.
Yet another colossal social naughtiness in
Sydney. But one really lucky man lived—Adam. He
might let his wife philander about all night, look-
ing Narcissus-like in the brooks, or sighing to the
moon, and yet feel no jealous shaft no uncer-
tainty as to whose blood flowed in the veins of the
two little “gossoons,” Cain and Abel, who were
outside playing leap-frog. But we have Im-
proved upon all that; so much so, indeed, that the
improvement has been crystalised into a proverb
to bo found in every language—" It’s a wise child,
&c.”
Ou the occasion of one of Marxvood’a re-
cent visits to Ireland, and while travelling, pro-
tected by some constabulary, one of the latter
tried his'hand at “chaffing” the eminent English
hangman. He bore it quite imperturbably, and
when asked whether he had a son, replied in the
affirmative. “ And," continued the questioner,
“will you put him into your own line ot business r
“ Well,” said Marwood, with a keen look and a sly
twinkle in his eyes, “ if he’s a good boy I will; but
if ho turns out a blackguard, 111 make an Irish
policeman ot him.”
Sligo, which has rejected the Conservative
and elected a Nationalist, is Parnellite to the core,
as is all Ireland save Ulster. If the grand old man
wore to listen to the voice of the great majority ot
Irishmen, as expressed by the Parnellltes who
really represent them, instead ot treating that
party as a faction, ’twould be better all round.
Gladstone yields too much to the Whigs In the
matter of Ireland-and the Whig on that question
is as illiberal as the Tory—the difference twixt the
two resembling that ’twixt a crocodile and an alli-
gator, or a barrister and an attorney.
Excepting Gladstone, Bright, and possibly
one or two others, well advanced in age, Thomas
Sexton, the Irish M.P. for Sligo, is the orator ot
the Commons. He is 3t>, and a son of * common
people.” .The Waterford young mens debating
society first developed his great natural ability tor
eloquence, and a long course of brilliant journal-
istic work has conduced to a conciseness of style
and coiTectness of expression that help to lend to
his speeches that rare excellence which distin-
guishes them. This, too, despite the fact that the
cause ho espouses is not the popular one. And—
unlike what Dr. Badham calls the “splendid gib-
berish ” of many popular spouters—the speeches
of Sexton sparkle even in dull printer’s ink.
A correspondent thus describes Colonel
Ingersoll (as he appeared at the big Star Route
trials):—“ He xvas chewing tobacco vigorously, and
his fat jaws moved up and down, making the flesh
encasing them expand and contract like india-
rubber. Ingersoll likes tobacco, and his bump of
reverence is not large enough to make him stop
chewing during an assizes. He looks for all the
the world like an over-grown boy. and it is not un-
fair to say that ho often acts like one. Sometimes
he puts his hands into his pockets when he is
speaking, and ho often makes a joke and laughs at
it with tne audience. He laughs all over, from the
fuzzy hair of his bald head to the beefy calves of
his fat legs, his big belly shaking till the gold
watch-chain across it seems to jingle, and his wiiole
frame a personification of Humour on a drunk.”
General Sherman is the champion kisser of
America, and any other man, if he was not a
General, xvould get into lots of trouble behaving
the same way. The General, however, never kisses
boys or babies, or old women: ho prefers not to go
to extremes. It xvas estimated recently (we pre-
sume the girls furnished the statistics) that the
General had had a hundred thousand kisses since
the civil xvar; and the old boy says "that when
he is about to die, he xvants the eight prettiest girls
in the neighbourhood to gather round him and
kiss him to death.” It ssems he’ is in an undue
hurry about heaven. But there’s nothing strange
about an old soldier being that way. Women and
xvar are not so muen unlike; and one works just as
much death and devastation as the other. As
somebody says,
“ Love and xvar are strange compeers:
War sheds blood, and love sheds tears,
War has spears, and love has darts,
War breaks heads, and love breaks hearts.”
While xve have succeeded in lengthening
the tails of the cat so as to x-each the larrikin, our
cousins in England are endeavouring to do the
same in the direction of the wife-beater. The Eng-
lish extension might have taken place, but for the
suggestion that in divorce cases the Judges have
the power to order a flogging should cruelty be
proved. Then a whisper went round “ society ”
that this would never do, The opposition to the
measure was emphasized when it was proved by a
Marchioness that her husband, heir to a dukedom,
struck her at a time when anyone with the feelings
of a man would have caressed. The idea of send-
ing a nobleman to the triangles! No, honest John
B. You arc getting along pretty well on the road
to equality, but you’ve not got so far as whipping
a Duke.
There is a garter vacant since the death of
the Duke of Marlborough. It is scarcely fair that
honour like this should be kept at home. The time
has quite arrix’od xvhen a little gentle pressure
might induce the home authorities to toxv us after
them by tying a piece of tape round one of our
leading colonists’ calves. They gave us Hanlon,
and Cavanagh and one Smith, and now it they
would only change some C.M.G. or other into Honi
soil, &c., xve xvould never forget it. Radicals are
too read / to sneer, when they hear of honours
being conferred on successful publicans or but-
chers, but it is by means like these that society is
preserved. Even the Americans are finding this
out, and late accounts from that progressive
nation tell hoxv an order of merit, consisting of a
sardine tin attached to a piece of txvine has had a
greater share in pacifying a tribe of Chickaxva
Indians than a regiment of U.S. cavalry.
The Paris correspou lent of a London print
is a fierce “ Jingo.” It appears that when Beacons-
fleld called upon Bismarck, his answer to the Chan-
cellor, xvho asked him xvhether ho came “ for peace
or for xvar,” was, “I am ready tor either.” “Thence-
forward,” the correspondent adds, “the Chancellor
could gauge xvhat England xvanted; and it may bo
added that Lord Boaeonslield did not yield au inch
except on the question of Batoum. When, at eleven
o’clock, Count Schouvaloff, xvho had returned from
seeing the Emperor, arrived at Prince Bismarck’s,
the latter know how far the Russian concessions
xvould have to go to satisfy England.” This is all
apropos of the Berlin treaty. One xvonders xvhether
this is a sample of “ history ” as our grandchildren
xvlll learn it. Disraeli xvas always a show man-a
clever one, if you xvill, but still a shoxvman. The
Duchess of Edinburgh (the present Czar’s sister)
took the sulks because one ot her English relatives
(by marriage) xvas alloxvcd to enter a London draw-
ing-room before her. She, being the daughter
jof an “ Imperial,” thought herself entitled
to the pas befoie the other lady, who xvas
merely the child of a “Royal.” Then “Dizzy”
came to the rescue and settled matters by making
his Royal mistress an Empress. He turned up at
Berlin with a severe expression on his face, xvhile
the secret treaty with Russia xvas in the pocket of
his overcoat. Of course the publication of that
treaty (it xvas obtained from a clerk in London) in
the Globe xvas a “ facer,” but, in the language ot
the P.R., the Premier came up “smiling” to the
Conference. So tar as England and Russia xvere
concerned, the Berlin treaty xvas a screaming farce.
The whole thing was settled before Beaconsfleld
started from London, or Schouvaloff from Peters-
burgh. In the expression, “ peace with honour,
on his return to England, he probably touched the
highest point in diplomatic humbug. While the
cheers of millions were ringing in his ears and his
astuteness (it is sometimes called another name)
on every tongue, space for the short letter of
Charles Darwin, in answer to a German student
who asked the old naturalist's opinion regarding
revelation, could only be found in two English
newspapers. This is civilization.
The slavish adulation which this paper has
continually tilted upon actors and actresses is, we
are glad to note, beginning to get it liked by mem-
bers of the “ perfesh.” We have this on authority
of several votaries of Thespis, whose letters to us,
by reason of their flattering strain, go far towards
soothing us in our hours of trouble, easing our
moments of travail. We have letters, and letters,
and letters; and, after reading them all, it is no
figure of speech to say that we are covered with
compliments—appalled with applause. The flatter-
ing effusions we, with our natural modesty, put
aside. Wo should like to quote some of the epistles
in which the writers, who appear (by what they
state) to possess every professional accomplish-
ment except spelling), “reqquest a line in your
vallable paper;” we should like to clip out chunks
of long rigmaroh s in which the rumour current
that the big drum had struck is Indignantly denied,
and the assertion which appeared in these columns
that some fiend in human form had inserted a
pound of butter into the bassoon prior to the com-
mencotnent of the overture, and so marred the bass
effects of “William Tell,” is rejected with scorn.
Droll people, some actors. Gods to tools, mysteri-
ous to many, puppets to us. “ Puppets”—of course.
When on the stage what else are they, who move
by memory, cry by cues, and recite by rote ? Yet
how intolerant are these ladies and gentlemen of
the “sock and buskin”! Times, ot course, have
altered since
“ The mighty monarch, in theatric sack,
Carried his whole regalia on his back,”
and you had better believe that, as a rule, in the
present decade, even the hauteur of a newly-made
country J.P. pales before the pride of a profes-
sional—sinks into insignificance before the side
of a star. See how they live 1 Thunder 1
Pomeroy entertained well, but she “as-
serted ” herself as an entertainer. What she loved
was to lie upon a couch in a Mrs. Bkewtou attitude,
and to receive her guests xvith half-closed eyes,
and in a gorgeous wrapper, cut square. Then
she xvould, ianguishly, preside: and for rea-
sons known to herself, laugh xvith her mouth shut.
Floxvers, and fruit, and plate on the tabid. Any
amount. Rignold, too, xvas a pretty gorgeous en-
tertainer: but to dine with someone else wo knew,
in another country long ago, was a bore. Not only
were his kids there—the “fairy actresses,” xvith
napkins tied over their dress-fronts—but they used
to invite other kids to the banquet, whose serviettes
xvere also made bibs of, and who used to spoon
their soup doxvn their necks in an alarming man-
ner. This gentleman xvas a gonial, but not a
“roystering” host. lie was kind and quiet and
pensive, and the moment you took the first two-
ounce mouthful out of his beef you felt, sonio-
hoxv, that the xvholo aim of his life xvas to bo xviu-
ning. “The darlings,” he xvould say, as he gazed
on them, “their talent, the darlings, has been sent
to them from Heaven.” Then Felisc would cry for
Curasao, and Yolaude for another apple, and xvhile
the guest would exercise his handkerchief on tho
jux r eiiile invitees, the happy father would, with deep
feeling, propose, in colonial xvlne and xvater, tho
health of his good lady. This was affecting, and
xve liked it. Garrick —xve descend to inferior
creatures—entertained, likexvise, in his humble
way, and tried to propitiate Churchill, then the
most poxverful of dramatic critics. Charles, how-
ever, who (not being even either a suburban noxvs-
paper, or a bill-sticker) had no free list, and xvas—
xvhat xve hardly dare to be—independent, xvroto of
Garrick—
“ Let the vain tyrantsit amidst his guards,
His puny green-room xvits and venal bards,
Who meanly tremble at the puppet's frown,
And fora playhouse-freedom lose their own ;
In spite of new-made laxvs, and now-made kings,
The free-born Muse with liberal spirit sings.
Boxv down, ye slaves ! before these idols fall ;
Let Genius stoop to them xvho’x e none at all:
Ne’er xvill I flatter, cringe, or bend the knee
To those xvho, slaves to all, are slave., to me.”
A N.S.W. farmer, xvhile engaged the other
day in burning the carcasses ot cattle xvhich had
died from Cumberland disease, accidentally in-
haled some of tho fumes. Ho died soon after.
She xvho is beautiful is stronger than iron
or fire.— Anacreon.
a Sophie Arnould calls marriage “ the sacra-
ment of adultery.”
They were not “half-naked, loving, natural
and Greek”—at least (in mathema'ical parlance)
they were the means but not the extremes. She
was a Now Zealand lady, and he a N.Z.—tailor.
They met, and loved. He lived at the North Shore
there, and Leander-like crossed the water every
night buoyed up with his love and his goose. Then
he trusted some “mashers” who never paid, and
so one morning his chair was found empty. Like
“Louis Seize,’ he had “turned like a craven and
fled.” He went down South, sent his sweetheart
idyllic letters, which little by little got cooler and
less frequent, until they stopped. Tnis put her on
her mettle. Sending him a telegram detailing his
mother’s death, she waited the result with masterly
inactivity. He came at once, found the old lady
alive and kittenish, a parson in the house, his
sweetheart in bridal array, and her big brother
behind her with a bludgeon and a wicked-looking
mastiff. It was his wedding night, and he enjoyed
it.
On the departure from Melbourne of Mrs.
Hampson, the lady evangelist, a crowded bun-
struggle was held in the Town Hall. Mrs. H. spoke
for an hour, and then held an “enquirers’” rneet-
i ing. If you have sipped at the fount of scepticism,
i or waded in the waters of heterodoxy, go at once
i to an Evangelical enquirers’ meeting and ask
questions. You can always count ou a reply—in-
genious, it not convincing. Mrs. Hampson is com-
ing here, so that all the noisy secularists, who are
S doing so much to undermine our faith in things,
] can attend an enquirers’ meeting, and have their
doubts evaporated.
A French paper tells us of the serenity,
faith, calmness, and submission, shown by the
Comte de Chambord during his illness. His great
anxiety xvas to get the Pope’s blessing. He got it
from the Apostolic pigeon-hole. Then the Baron
de Raincourt, the Comte’s secretary, replied:—
“ The Comte and Comtesse de Chambord have been
deeply touched by receiving the Holy Fathers
Apostolic blessing for the august patient. Mcm-
slegneur pressed to his heart the telegram which
conveyed it, full of faith in the prax’ers raised to
Heaven by the Holy Father for his cure.” As the
Comte is said to be suffering from cancer in the
stomach, and as everything, from aloes to Zingi-
ber, has been tried, the case will be watched xvitn
some interest. Should he got round, the Huxleys
and sich might Just as avoII pack their traps and
migrate—unless, indeed, it turns out not to be a
cancer at all.
IN OFFICE!
THE BODY OF THE BARD.
The times were hard
And so the bard
Sat gloomily at his table—
Too tired to think.
Too sick to drink,
And hardly for rhyming able.
The table, too,
Was a sight to view,
Though to him it didn’t matter;'
There were—wreath your smiles—
Sirs, bills on lilcs.
And a crust on a broken platter.
Between his hair
He looked with a glare.
And his laugh was hard and hollow,
As he said: “ These signs
Are blanked hard lines
For a votary of Apollo.”
For lofty rhyme
This is not the time:
They have given away in these days
The grand melancholy
For a poor fool’s folly—
Ah, these are the bread-and-ehecse days!”
The times were bad,
And the bard was sad
As he went on —“ The age is shoddy—
I can’t sell my scroll,
I can’t sell my soul,
So I’ll just have to sell my body.”
To a doctor, so,
He went quick, you know,
And lie sold his body straightway,
He spent the sum
That he got, in rum.
And was found stone-dead in a gateway.


PAPERHANGING S!
_ with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSERY PAPERS.
CEILING -CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, &C.
Imported by
Alexander
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &c.
Haymarket Auction Rooms
AND
FURNITURE BAZAAR,
CORN EXCHANGE BUILDINGS,
724 GEORGE STREET.
The cheapest place in Sydney to purchase every
description of Household Furniture.
HOUSES FURNISHED on the Time-payment
System.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY instalments taken.
Open—Mondays and Wednesdays, 0 to 9
Saturdays . . . . 9 to 10
Tuesdays and Fridays . . 9 to 6
JOHN P. LISTER, Proprietor.
i
i
Jf«> s
A6*\
K
'3
1^®
&
If
gSWcAWAT OPPOSITE POST OFFICE .
>95®eot*ce STrecT
C. B. MODim,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
VST“ TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will bo faithfully
guaranteed at 602 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chab. Osborne ; also Angelo Bor-
donl, of Brescia, Italy.
J LAWLER, 608 Georgo-street, Bedding Manu-
• facturer, Importer of Brass and Iron Bed-
steads, American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair,
Kapok, and Cotton Flock. Established 1860.
SOHO BAZAAR,
352 GEORGE STREET
(Paling’s Old Premises).
THIS BAZAAR, which has just been OPENED
will be found to contain a superior assort
ment of
Brie h Brae, Articles of Yertu,
Terra Cotta, China-ware, &c.,
Tricycles, Trench and German
Model Dolls, Count Harracli’s
Bohemian Vases, Parisian and
Viennese Leather Goods,
Parian Marble
> *i >* and all varieties of
FANCY GOODS AND TOYS.
INSPECTION INVITED.
Solb-o Bazaar
352 George Street.
Atlas Foundry & Engineer-
ing Company,
t&- HAY STREET SYDNEY.
Engineers, Boilermakers and Shipbuilders,
Iron and Brnssfounders, Coppersmiths and
Millwrights.
The above firm are prepared to undertake con-
tracts for the manufacture of Marine and Station-
ary Engines, Boilers, and Girder Work, Quartz-
crushing, Sawmill, Sheep-washing, Mining, Sugar-
mills, and all other descriptions or Machinery, with
latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for metal.
No. 17 ROYAL ARCADE.
MR DAVID DUNK,
(Of Paddington) r
Begs to inform his old customers and public gener-
ally that he has opened a branch of his FRUITER-
ERS’ ESTABLISHMENT at
NO. 17 ROYAL ARCADE.
His great experience, viz., 30 years, is a guarantee
of his ability to excel all others. Remember the
address-
17 ROYAL ARCADE, and
451 South Head Road, Paddington.
J. W. R. CLARKE,
Bookseller & S tationer
5 and 6 MARKET BUILDINGS,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite Market Street.
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
IJIHE MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & he Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWAYS PURE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations.
Butter.
This Is either manufactured at their own depot
or obtained from the best butter-makers in the
Southern dairy districts.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
21 HARBOUR STREET.
WATSON AND CRANE,
SILVER, NICKEL, & GOLD PLATERS,
BRASS FOUNDERS AND MANUFACTURERS.
Old Electroplated Ware, Cruets, Spoons, and
Forks, Tea Services, &c., re-silver plated equal to
new, at Moderate Charges.
NICKEL PLATING on Brass, Iron, and Metal
Furniture and Fittings of all kinds in Beat Style at
Lowest Prices.
JEWELLERY, &c., WELL GILT.
STEAM, BRASS, & ELECTROPLATING WORKS,
336 PITT STREET.
HAWKES AND COMPANY,
TATTERSALL'S HORSE BAZAAR
and
SALE YARDS,
CORNER of CASTLEREAGH and HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sales Daily, or outside when required.
Horses kept at Livery; excellent accommodation
and fodder.
All kinds of Vehicles and Horses on Hire, day
or night.
Weddings and Picnic Parties supplied with good
carriages. *
TRAMS SET DOWN AT THE DOOR.
Conveyances fitted with Hampers for Excursion
Parties.
Sale, Livery, and Let-out Department entirely
separate.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED by ACT of PARLIAMENT, 187S
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £127,300
Directors •
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
lay, l
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George 8. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley Kin,
»:
M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M
Auditors:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. | Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq.
Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches:
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Glralambone,
Gosford, Nyngan, and Bourke.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
London Office: 158 Leadenhall-street
Director: Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent: G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This hank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted dally.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wool
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
W.
KERR,
Watchmaker
Jeweller,
and
Silversmith.
JJA8 JUST OPENED HIS NEW PREMISE
544 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the TOWN HALL. ’
With a magnificent stock of Diamond, Roman
and Vienna Jewellery,
GOLD AND SILVER WATCHES & CLOCKS,
Football, Cricketing, and Trophy Speciality.
Note the Address—
544 GEORGE STREET.
£
■gULL-DOG ALE.—IT Is
not the clearness
or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALB
that preserves this Irand first in public
estimation. Common bitter crude fileers are
made very fine, but no other brand i has the
same mellow vinous character, the fullness on
the palate, and the groat )• eeping qualities of the
BULL-DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cau-
tioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred
to as equal in quality to BULL-DOG. CATTELL
& Agents. Newcastle Agents: WOOD
T SIMPS O N ,
** * IRONFQUNDER, Ac.
Campehdown Foundry,
Lambert-street, Camperdown, West ,Sydney,
Manufactures all kinds of ornamental Palisading,
Frieze, Fringe, and Brackets, Plain and Fluted
Columns, Window Mullions, Colonial Oven Grates,
and General Castings.
attended
N.B.—Orders from the country punctually
3d to, and forwarded by road, rail, or water,
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
A CURE GUARANTEED.
BrtKui
TR
EATMENT"
DR. E. C. WEST’S NERVE & BRAIN TREAT-
MENT. ■ /• ,
A guaranteed specific for hysteria, dizziness,
vulsions, fits, nervous neuralgia, headache, nervo.ua
prostration caused by the use of alcohol or tobacco,
wakefulness, mental depression, softening of the
brain resulting in insanity and leading to misery,
decay, and death; premature old age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain or ovoiaindulgence.
Each box contains one month’s treatment. 5» „
box, or six boxes for 25s.; sent by mail on
receipt of price. We guarantee six b«?Jes to cure
any case. With each order received for six boxes
accompanied with 35s., the purchaser will receive
the manufacturer's written guarantee to refund
the money if the treatment does not effect a cure.
Guarantees Issued by all chemists and drugging ijJ
THE COVENTRY MACHINISTS’ COMPANY
MAKERS BY SPECIAL WARRANT TO H.R.H. THE PRINCE OF WALES.
TRADE MARK REGISTERED.
Intending: Purchasers of
Bicycles & Tricycles
THE SPECIAL CLUB.
Should Write to Ue or Call on Us.
As we have always on hand a full
Stock of THE CLtfB BIGVOLES and
TRICYCLES, wo never fall to give
: purchasers the best satisfaction.
We have permission from the leading
BICYCLE AND TRICYCLE RIDERS
OF THE COLONY to refer inquirers
as to th6 merits of our machines to
them, and we shall take pleasure in
doing this whenever requested, as their
good recommendation has already sold
for us a number of machines. Expe-
rienced Machinists inspect and adjust
every machine.
THE AUSTRALIAN CLUB.
I
SPECIAL. AGENCY:
\ 1
THE IMPERIAL CLUB
THE CHEYLESMORE CLUB.
389 George Street, opposite
Royal Hotel.
CRUMPTON & BRUCE'S
; ' - CELEBRATED
OVERSTRUNG IRON-FRAMED PIANOS,
Warranted for 7 years —Prices, £25, £30, £35, £42, & £55.
For the first time, a Piano embracing all the merits of a High-class Instrument, at a Low
....... Price, is brought within the reach of all.
‘ I
Style f JNo. 2, at 12 guineas—a marvel of Cheapness.
■- .•
WRITE FOR PIANO, ORGAN, AND MUSIC PRICE LISTS, TO
Crampton & Bruce, 281 George-st., Sydney,
OPPOSITE HUNTER-STREET.
PEAPES an.cL SHAW
, . ' i
Have recently opened large shipments of their now celebrated brand of
Standard Ready-made Clothing.
These Goods are All Wool, and the cut, fit, and workmanship is not to be excelled anywhere.
“STANDARD ” TWEED
“STANDARD ” TWEED
“ STANDARD ” TWEED.
“STANDARD ” TWEED
“STANDARD ” TWEED
note- / ,
SUITS, THIRTY-TWO SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
PEAPES and SHAW’S, GEORGE STREET.
SUITS, THIRTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
PEAPES and SHAW’S, GEORGE STREET.
SUITS, TWO GUINEAS.
PEAPES and SHAW’S, GEORGE STREET.
SUITS, FORTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
PEAPES and SHAW’S, GEORGE STREET.
SUITS, FIFTY SHILLINGS.
PEAPES and SHAW’S, GEORGE STREET.
PATTERNS of the Tweeds in each price quoted forward on application, together with
instructions for self-measurement, post free.
OVERCOATS FOR WINTER, in light, medium, and heavy textures, 25s, 30s, 35s.
OVERCOATS, CUT SPECIALLY, EXTRA LENGTHS, and exceptionally well finished, 42s,
SCOTCH TWEED ULSTERS, LINED WOOL, 30s, 35s, 42s, 45s, 60s.
GENT.’S DRESSING GOWNS, In Scotch Knickerbocker Felt Wool, and Paisley, in great
NEW RAILWAY RUGS in Wool, Plain and Fancy Seal, extra sizes, from 15s 6d upwards.
) y > •
A MAGNIFICENT SHIPMENT OP BAGS.
GLADSTONE’S IN BUFF AND ENAMEI,LED HIDE
’ THE EXCELSIOR BRIEF BAG
THE BEACONSFIELD, and a variety of other shapes
Portmanteaus and Overland Trunks, in all sizes.
CHRISTY’S HATS, CHRISTY’S HATS, CHRISTY’S HATS,
ALL THE NEWEST AND LATEST LONDON SHAPES,
In Black Silk, Drab Snell, Hard Felts.
Travelling Hats and Caps, in great variety.
THE TURKISH FEZ, THE TURKISH FEZ.
PEAPES ft SHAW. George-street. PEAPES ft SHAW, George-street.


#
>
ALEXANDER'S
IS THE BEST
POB HAND OB MACHINE SEWING,
Ask for it, and see that you get It.
XXXXXXXXXXXYXXXX
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
tT
A
Vm.
jrr
\5
XX
XX
XX
HE! Whether p k ii Sjby ir h the Cmlry, M HIT BEAT
HORDERN’S DRAPERY EMPORIUM,
172a, 174, 174a, 176, 176a, 178a, 209, 211, PITT STREET.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX — — . , .
xi Everything Sold We. Send for Patterns. We send goods as far as Tenterfield, Bonxke, and Albnry. Give us a Trial Order,
aA
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
HOBDEBIT
211 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, NEAR KING STREET.
Brilliant Lustre.
ORIENTAL GOLD
tn nrmiv it to common uses. No tawdry articles of inferior designs are manufactured of ORIENTAXi GUL
stooped to apply it to common uses. x>o th j£ BE9T CIiASg AND MOST TASTEFUL DESIGNS ONLY, and is
Enduring Beauty.
The best imitations heretofore produced are
y, that the discoverers have not
into JEWELLERY OP
X* Til ill JjJliiSi VJliA OO Anu XAOlTjr AJ XJ u o U i , UUU 13
Perfectly Indistinguishable from the most costly Sterling Gold Jewellery.
ALTHOUGH SOLD AT PRICES WHICH REPRESENT ONLY A FRACTION OP THE COST OF STERLING GOLD JEWELLERY OF IDENTICAL WORKMANSHIP.
We want to do business with people 'throughout Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
RESIDENTS of SYDNEY and VISITORS from
the COUNTRY are respectfully Invited to Inspect
our Goods. We count It no trouble to show them,
and no injury If no purchase is made.
Ui Ij Fist, oi %iml
NO. 1.
Gentleman’s Watch, horizontal movement.
Oriental Gold case, open face with crys-
tal glass, with handsome Oriental Gold
Albert, for .. .. .. *• ’
No. S.
Same as above, except that the watch has
hunting case, for .. .. •• •• 3
pr Please observe. Wo do not pretend .—
these are fifty-guinea watches ;"but we no affirm
that they are good, h onest watch es, excellent lame-
keepers, articles which do us credit and give satis-
faction to our customers. In appearance they are
indistinguishable from expensive gold watcnes-
No. 3.
To save customers the trouble of compiling a list, we make up useful and attractive lists as follows:
0 0
0 0
that
Oriental Gold Compass Charm
Tasteful Breast-pin, Oriental (told ..
Brilliant Alaska Diamond, C'riental Gold
Oriental Gold Shirt Studs, set of four
£4 4
0 12
0 7
The watch In the No. 3 parcel Is a first-class
article, such as Is usually sold at from six to seven
guineas. We deal direct with the manufacturers,
and on a large scale, and thus we get special terms,
and are enabled to share the advantage with our
customers. The Jewellery, we need scarcely say,
can’t he told from sterling gold articles. The work-
manship is identical with the best. Thus, by buy-
ing this watch from us, purchasers, as a matter of
fact, secure the other articles as a free gift.
No. 4.
A genuine Waltham Watch, nickel case,
open face, crystal glass, as supplied to
the N.S. Wales Railway Department,
with splendid Oriental Gold Albert ..£300
No. 5.
Same as No. 4, except that the Watch has
sterling silver hunting case, with chain
as before .. .. •• •• •• 310 0
Noth.— We buy these watches by the thousand*;
otherwise we could not sell them at the price.
Sportsmen, BiCYOiiisxs, Pedestrians, and
Oarsmen—Observe I
No. 6.
A Racing Chf onbgraph nlokel-oased watch,
double dials, splendid timekeepers,
with patent fly-back, marking quarter
Seconds, with Oriental Gold Albert ..£40 0
Nb. 7.
Same as above, except that this case is
silver InStbad of nickel, with Oriental
Gold Chain .. .. 5 5 0
Ladies 1 Please Note.
No. 8.
Lady’s Oriental Gold Watch, handsomely
chased case, full jewelled, highly-
finished works, with handsome treble
chain, two slides and two tassels, of
Oriental Gold, only ..
ONLY
=fi
: a
2 16 0
This cut is the exact* size
and appeasrance of
THE REVOLVER for ONE POUND!
A beautifully-finished article* nickel-plated through-
out, vulcanite stock. 32 calibre; 5 shot.
Sent to any part of Australia or New Zealand for £1.
Oriental Gold Company , 474 George-st, Sydney. _
. Beware ot Importers who out out this advertisement and stick it in their windows over a common Mack iron revolver.
We are glad to have visitors, because we know
that our goods please everyone, and that those who
do not purchase will speak of our Jewellery to
their acquaintance in a way that will do us service.
No. 8 la a gift which will astonish any re-
cipient. Each article is thoroughly good. The
action of the watch Is Identical with what is put
into sterling gold cases, of same design, and sold
for £8 and £10, and there is no difference in the
appearance.
NO. 9.
Lady’s Oriental Gold Brooch and Earrings £015 0
Lady’s exquisite Necklet and Locket, Ori-
ental Gold
Lady’s gem set Gold Ring (real stones)
115 0
010 0
£3 0 0
Specially Observe.
ES?" If the articles do not answer expects*
tlon on receipt, re-pack them at once and send
them back. If this is done within two days
or, where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured, we
will return the money, deducting only the Wfl*
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and wo will return the
money for the articles not kept.
Every watch Sold by us will be rated and accom-
panied by a written warranty for two years.
We have a very large stock of Earrings, Brooches,
ladles and gent’s Alberts, Rings set with real stones,
crystals, and Alaska diamonds, emeralds, rubies,
and Italian pearls ; Lockets, Necklets, Collarettes,
Fancy Charms, Breast-pins, Studs, Solitaire Ncch
Studs (some very splendid Alaska brilliants).
prices vary.
Send us from £1 to £10, with a list of what yM
want, and we will make a choice for yofi to the
best of our Judgment and forward same.
approved, and immediately returned, We *13
refund as above, or make any desired substltotwjj.
The foregoing are hut a few assortments speci-
fied to save customers the trouble of makings '
It will be sufficient when ordering to give»
number of the lot, and enclose P.O.O. f ot
amount Payable to The Oriental Gold Co.
474 George-street, Sydney
OPPOSITE MARKETS.
hTp. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers & MachineryMerchants
ARB SOLE AGENTS FOR
8. W. GREGORY.
Korting’s Injectors
Eclipse Windmills
x iToBEe,
SAW MILL, PLANING m’IlI" AND MINING REQUISITES.
Fay & Co.’S W oodworklng Mach^wT
Thvnito Co*’s E mery Wheels and Machines
if piTT STREET, SYDNEY.
SYDNEY BICYCLE CLUB 10-mlles Amateur
Championship, 60 Guinea Cup, Saturday,
August 4th, 1883,
WAS WON ON
An “Andrew’s” Sanspareil
23ibs. Racing Bicycle,
In the grand time of 38mln. 13^sec.
All riders, starting from scratch, rode the Sans- >
pakeil Bicycle and Excelsior Tricycle*
BAYLISS, THOMAS A CO., 68 King Street
Printed amt Published by "The Bulletin” Newspaper Company (Limited), 24 Pitt Street, Sydney, New SoutB Wales.
