

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 1.—No. 15. —New Series
SATURDAY, AUGUST 25, 1883.
Price —6d.
THE CIRCULATION OF “THE BULLETIN"
IS NOW MORE THAN DOUBLE THAT OF
any other weekly newspaper in
N.s. w- THA T OF ONE VER Y OLD ESTAB-
LISHED PAPER, WHICH EXCEEDS “ THE
BULLETINS" BY ABOUT ONE-FIFTH,
ALONE EXCEPTED. THE CIRCULATION
OF “THE BULLETIN" IS THE SECOND
GREATEST AMONG THE WEEKLIES OF
AUSTRALASIA.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 25, 1883.
The Lake Macquarie Dodge.
Although “underground engineering” is
not at an end, the catastrophes which have
overtaken sundry of the most notable
among the experts at that system of public
steals seem to have had a corrective influ-
ence. The latest device for getting at the
public purse is the ConfldenceTrick. Thiswas
handsomely inaugurated at Lake Macquarie
the other day, when an association of specu-
lators interested in, and owning property on
the shores of Lake Macquarie, engineered a
picnic to that locality in the full light of
day, and secured for their little trip a three-
column puff in Ihe S.M. Herald, a
column and a half of a send-off in the Echo,
and equal display in the other dailies.
Why so much prominence should have been
given to this excursion of a ring of land-
owners, bent, according to their own show-
ing, on inducing Parliament to make the
inhabitants of the colony at large pay for
improving the value of the properties owned
by them, is a mystery of which no satis-
factory solution presents itself. The pro-
prietors of the S.M. Herald are, we believe,
superior to working for their own pockets in
this fashion. But that their columns have been
got at is obvious. The affair had positively
no public interest, except it were to expose
the designs harboured by the ring upon the
Treasury. But the tone of the notices is not
that of an expose. It distinctly favours the
device. There was not a single public man
present, so far as can be judged from the
speeches, who was not there in his capacity
of property-owner in the locality. The
members of Parliament present were: Tom
Garrett (absit omen!), G. A. Lloyd, R.
Barbour, and Copeland; and of these,
two, Messrs. Lloyd and Copeland, avowed
themselves pecuniarily interested. Messrs.
Garrett and Barbour did not so avow them
selves; but, then, these two worthies are not
in the habit of volunteering information
about their relations with political specula-
tions. Mr. Copeland was consistently frank
and candid, but finished by a glaring incon-
sistency. He saw no reason why he shouldn’t
own his interest. He had had the distinction
when Minister of placing £20,000 on the esti-
mates to be expended in improving the
entrance to the lake. He had been much
pleased by the manner in which the amount
had been voted. There had not been one
word of murmur, or a question asked.
• • •
This, then, is Mr. Copeland’s idea of what
is pleasing on the part of the people’s repre-
sentatives in voting a sum of £20,000. No
questions to be asked. Let us see how this
complaisance has worked in the present
instance. Had the members of the Assembly
been less “ pleasing,” they might have ex-
tracted —or they might not —the following
information, which we cull from the speeches
of the other speculators on this social occa-
sion. Tney would have learned that the
Minister who proposed the vote had a pecu-
niary beneficial interest in having the money
expended. They would have learned that
the sum had been placed upon the estimates
either without decent enquiry as to its suf-
ficiency for accomplishing the purpose for
which it was voted, upon misleading infor-
mation, or with a withheld knowledge that
unless that vote were followed up by the
voting of many larger sums, the money
might as well have been taken in a hopper-
barge to the centre of the lake, and dropped
to the bottom. Mr. Copeland commenced
his remarks by saying that he did not think
there was much reason for complaint—by
the ring, understood —about this Lake Mac-
quarie business. He had got them £20,000
for the bar, and £1000 for a road. But he
finished up by looking ahead, instead of re-
trospectively, and, with another £20,000
in view, concluded by bewailing that
“ this district of Lake Macquarie had been
most utterly neglected—more so than any
other district in the colony.” This, although
contradictory, would be touching, were it not
that Mr. G. A. Lloyd could not endure that
Mr. Copeland should monopolize all the
credit of having got £20,000 from the Trea-
sury to enhance the value of the property of
“present company.” It appears that the
£20,000 which Mr. Copeland put on the esti-
mates was the second such sum which the
Lake Macquarie bar has swallowed. Mr.
Lloyd incidentally remarked that he had
been a member of the Government which
put the first £20,000 on the estimates for
Lake Macquarie entrance. With £20,000
spent, and another £20,000 in course of spend-
ing, the bar seems very little to brag about.
As a bar, it is splendid. But, as an entrance,
it appears open to improvement. And that
is about the only thing it is open to. There
is about six-feet of water on it at high tide,
and no water at all when the tide is out.
The prospect of spending £40,000, or even
another £20,000, which the land-owners as-
sembled at the picnic are intriguing to
squeeze out of Parliament next session, to
make a permanently practicable entrance by
water to the estates of Sir Daniel Cooper,
Sir John Robertson (he is “in it” also, it
seems), Sir Edward Strickland, and Messrs.
Copeland, Lloyd, Pope, Hardie, &o.,
might be endurable if the thing could
be done for the money. It’s a good deal
for the rest of the colonists to pay, cer-
tainly, towards enhancing the value of the
estates of these persons. But, as Honest
John, Ezekiel Baker, John Davies,
and Garbett are temporarily in abey-
ance, perhaps the country could stand
giving this new lot a turn. But the Confi-
dence Trick is done with so much blazing
candour that the country cannot even
flatter itself that £60,000 would be sufficient
to fill the maws now agape. Mr. Tom
Garrett and Mr. T. Robertson, with an
agreeable frankness, deplored the folly of
frittering away such trumpery amounts
as three sums of £20,000 each. Mr.
Garrett thought a quarter of a million
sterling, or even half a million, would not
be too much for the State to deyote
to so excellent an object. It had, he stated,
been proved “ on documents,” beyond ques-
tion or refutation, that within the radius of
some 30 miles of the coast where they then
stood there existed a greater mineral wealth
than in any similar extent of country. Mr.
T. Robertson only wanted £200,000, because
if the Government spent that they would
afterwards receive from the work a hand-
some return; whereas, under the present
system, they were not receiving any return.
The slight misapprehension all these worthy
and candid orators laboured under seems to
be that they reckoned every colonist not in
the ring to be an arrant ass. Whereas, it
seems likely that most persons will perceive
clearly enough that the colonists at large
can have no direct interest in or prospect of
benefiting by the operations suggested.
The most obvious deduction to be drawn
from the speeches is that the State hasn’t
more than a shadow of interest in the dis-
trict, compared with what the company then
assembled own. The pick of the lake
frontages of valuable mineral laud is owned
by the ring. The locality is studded by pro-
perties varying in extent from 1000 to 2500
acres or more, owned by the Confidence-
men. Although the little votes of £20,000
haven’t done them any good, and aren’t
likely to, such expenditures are acceptable
to them on the off-chance that they may do
something to improve the access, and keep
up the value of land there. The expendi-
ture may not suffice to clear the entrance,
but it would have a good moral influence—
on bankers and others, willing to advance
on title deeds.
• •
The effrontery of the whole business is ab-
solutely staggering. There is a ring of specu-
lators who have acquired all they wanted in
a district. They have in silence picked the
eyes, and in secret procured the wasting of
£40,000 of the public money, on the speculation
that some addition of value to their purchases
might result. And now they uublushingly
seek to accustom the public to the idea of a
lot more being granted them. Half a mil-
lion, if it can be managed; but any trifle—
even a mere additional £20,000—if the public
won’t stand more. And this, although they
evidently agree that £20,000 would almost
certainly be wasted. We warn the public to
keep an eye on the Lake Macquarie ring. It
is trying quite a new “fake”—a political
“ Confidence Dodge.” It has charming
manners, and an easy guileless address. It
only wants £20,000 to £250,000, bless you, and
is not ashamed to say so openly. There can
be no harm in so bland an organiza-
tion. It has nothing to conceal. It has
nobbled the S.M. Herald, and used the
rest. If it prides itself ou anything above
other qualities, it is its bluff candour. It is
a tough old Joey B. A “ Joe may be rough,
sir, but he is honest” sort of Ring. This is a
deuced dangerous sort of combination.
There’s originality and talent iu it. It wants
the keenest watching, or the public will be
“out” £100,000 or so, even while it fancies
its pockets are tightly buttoned. The gist
of the matter is this: These gentry own the
Lake Macquarie district, or all they have
thought worth acquiring. The State owns
now only their leaviugs. They chiefly
will be benefltted by a waterway being
opened to the sea. Let them provide
the bulk of the money. According to
their own showing, to open the chan-
nel will unlock vast mineral wealth
—their vast mineral wealth—and will
convert the district into a second Newcastle
district—of theirs. No one will deny that
the State will reap an indirect and a
secondary benefit should this be accom-
plished. But the direct and primary benefit
will be reaped by these astute speculators.
It will be time enough to vote moneys for
that wonderful bar when a local-government
bill shall have been passed, and when for
every £2 contributed by the property-
holders of the district the State shall have
£1 to contribute. That can be the only fair
basis or proportion. To vote a single six-
pence under existing circumstances would
merely be equivalent to voting it into the
ingenious and too ingenuous pic-nickers’
pockets.
WILLIAM LAND8BOROUGH, ESQ., THE DISTINGUISHED EXPLORER.
(From a photo, by Lomer and Co., Brisbane.)


Coughs and Colds.
THE Rest Cure for the above Is R nm _
and taken at bod-time. Um ma<le hot
PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6s. PER IMPERIAL QUAR T
C. W. ROBERTS’
Sioglo Bottle Beparlneiii,
MARKET STREEf
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY
GO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER, P ° KT
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed of
other establishment in the world. any
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome of all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELISH WHISKY,
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. fid. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDQEE POUT,
3s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR PALE BRANDY,
fis. fid. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street, Sydney.
1! WOOL! ill!
Season 1883-84.
HILL, CLARK & CO.,
SYDNEY.
THE WOOL GROWERS OF NEW SOUTH
WALES AND QUEENSDAND.
THE rapid approach of the incoming wool
season reminds us to tender our thanks tor
the very liberal support which has been accorded
to us during past years ; and while doing so we
take the opportunity to solicit a continuance ni
the same support in the future which we nau
enjoyed in the past.
On referring to our circular issued last y
find that we therein anticipated a large increase
the quantity of wool which would be sold ini tnese
colonies, and the result proved that we were co-
rect. We also predicted that the prices obtai
in the colonies would be in favour of those grow
who sold in the
LOCAL MARKET,
and this also has been fully borne out by facts.
We are also glad to say that this niarkc
through the last season was extremely actne,
the large quantity of wool sold proves that
HYDJiEl
is fast becoming, what it is destined to be in futur,
the
WOOL MARKET OF AUSTRALIA.
We have therefore no hesitation in wool
growers the advantage of first offering the .
here, where buyers from all the UD plr
countries of Europe and America attend t
their wants from
FIRST HANDS.
Failing sales in Sydney, we are Prepared w
our London Agents, making liberal cash an
When sales are effected,
OUR CHARGES ,
are made on as low a scale as possible, a°. a
offered in our Warehouses, and not sow,
only to the nominal chaige of
ONE SHILLING PER B i,J “V sn d
which covers receiving, delivering, weig
storage accommodation. an d
Our Warehouses arc partiularly w ®lr_ display ' lf
are most conveniently arranged lor n ta*e-
wool, in any quantity, to the greatest | U j D g
The most careful attention is given to u0t bin#
of every lot, both large and small, so
will bo sold under the full market val ’ wflr jed
Way-bills and all further information 10
upon application.
HILL, CLARK AMD C0-.
WOOL WAREHOUSE 8 ’
CIRCULAR QUAY.
Offices: 139 PITT
STREET, SYDNEY
The Rates of Subsob/ptjon id ihe Bulletin
are—For one year, 34s.: haif-yuai, 13s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6cl.—in advance.
The Advertising Rates are or. per inch ;
special positions in the piper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advcitiseinonls 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on <-out Unions advertise-
ments ordered for periods.'as follows :—On ad-
vertisements ordered lev h consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: Fov J6 •Ainseentive insertions,
15 per cent.: For 53 cousecut; vc insertions, 25 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for .lileruau intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
bo made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, it more convenient.
H
ENHY
DALY FOR THE
A PUBLIC MEETING
OB' THE
ELECTORS OP THE GLEBE
GLEBE.
WILL BE HELD IN THE
TOWN HALL, ST. JOHN’S ROAD, GLEBE,
on this THURSDAY evening.
The CANDIDATE will Address the Electors.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The New Reformation.
The Melbourne Presbytery is troubled about
Judge Higinbotham’s lecture on "ModernScience
and the Churches,” recently delivered in the
Scot's Church in that city. A committee has been
appointed to consider what action should be taken
with respect to the matter. This is as it should be.
But it is apparent that the clergy of the Presby-
terian denomination, at any rate, have missed the
moral, and have not comprehended what manner
of action is incumbent upon them. The Rev. Mr.
M’Vean, who carried the motion for a committee.
Indicated his simple faith by declaring that the
lecture constituted “a dastardly attack upon
Christianity.” There seems to bo some con-
fusion in the reverend gentleman’s mind.
In the first place, Judge Hioinbotham dealt,
not with Christianity, but with the churches.
His argument is that they have done worse
than attack Christianity. According to his con-
tention, they have betrayed and debased it.
Judge Hioinbotham claimed, in effect, to be not
an assailant, but a rescuer. His contention is that
Christianity has fallen into bad hands. And his
attack was certainly the reverse of dastardly. He
took the clergy by their very beards, and gave
them such a wrench as they have never before
had in Australia. Mr. M’Vean and his party will
have to recognise the fact that it is not Christianity
that is attacked, but themselves and their system;
just as it was not Christianity, but the Roman
Priesthood and system, that Luther assailed.
Judge Hioinbotham, and those who think with
him, stand on ground identical with that occu-
pied by the early Reformers. They say that
the prevailing theology which has assumed the
name of Christianity, is not the religion of Christ
at all, but, on the contrary, a corruption and per-
version of that system. His argument, from first
to last, is that mummeries and creeds of human
manufacture have been imposed upon mankind by
priestly castes, as a substitute for the pure and
simple morality taught by Jesus of Nazareth. Mr.
M’Yean and his fellows are, as Protestants, barred
from raising the cry that Christianity is assailed’
when merely creeds and church-systems are chal-
lenged. It is not a question of theological felony—
of destroying a religion which is Presbyterian pro-
perty. It is a question of disputed title. Judge
Hioinbotham, and with him the ever-growing
multitude ot Freethinkers, claim that Christianity
{3 their property. Mr. M’Vean raises the cry of
stop -thief in vain. Ho will have to prove his title.
A writ of ejectment has been issued against him.
He mistakes the position if he tails to realise that
he is not in a position to strike an attitude as pro-
secutor He will have to plead in his defence.
A Doomed Commandment.
Sll Atx wo ever again be able to look on the Fourth
Commandment with eyes of reverence? As It
came to us in the beginning, the Sabbath rest was
a grateful announcement to weary hands and tired
heads. A day out of seven, on which limbs could
be straightened and the carklng cares with which
food is earned could be put away, required little
Inculcation to fix Itself on the conscience of the
human race as a sacred thing. Only a little dis-
position to regard all wisdom as from abpve, only
a faint fondness for tracing all blessings to an open
hand, were enough to create for the ordinance
of the Sabbath, a divine genesis. But how
much of that disposition, how much of that
fondness should be now on hand to restrain
scorn, to repress mockery, when the claims
of the Sabbath are announced ? The Sabbath Is
what it always was; the wisdom of its foundation,
the blessing of its presence, are not ignored. But
the blatant bellowing of narrow ecclesiastical
coteries has blown up the veil of sacredness, and
blown away the spell of reverence. Public opinion,
welling from these lines of rant, has rigged up the
day with garments of fantastic fustian, has
breeched it like a ruptured thing, and has filled its
mouth with a jargon that sends sanity mad. It
stands pilloried as a thing of beauty that is spoiled
for ever. No specific incident is required to give
point to these remarks, although they spring, on
the present occasion, from circumstances happen-
ing not many miles away. The circumstances have
their counterpart wherever laws founded on the
ill-educated Ranters’ interpretation of the Fourth
Commandment hold sway. A Mrs. Bassiere, who
keeps a confectionery shop in Collingwood, a sub-
urb of Melbourne, was brought up a second time,
last week, before the local Bench, charged with the
Impious and abominable crime of having sold a
pennyworth of lollies to a child on the preceding
Sunday. By the Ranters’ law, which unfortunately
fathers a good deal of the Australian Statute Book,
the minimum penalty for such a villanous offence
is written down at £5. Is it any wonder that
voices plead for a reconsideration of the relation
of man to Sunday ? and is it to be marvelled at that
some minds, loss patient than the rest, surge
violently to throttle the bugbear that presses upon
society, to hurl it out with fustian rent and
breeches torn and vocables priekod to chatter, and
to bury it in a heap with the howling votaries who
have made hateful a thing of love ?
Archbishop Vaughan.
It is not the Roman Catholics alone of N.S. Wales
who have reason to bewail the untimely death of
Rook it Bede Vaughan. The colony at large
must lament the loss of a man who brought to his
elevated station a degree of culture which could
not fail to have an influence upon society In this
young community. Archbishop Vaughan passed
through ordeals here sufficient to test to the utter-
most the metal of any man. In his struggle to
obtain for his flock what he regarded as their
rights in connection with educational facilities, he
encountered an antagonism which must have
moved every depth of his disposition. His digni-
fied manifestos and speeches were criticised with a
persistence and vehemence seldom devoted to any
other themes. What to him were the most sacred
and fundamental truths were flouted and dissected
with a cool disregard of his feelings, and satirized
with a reckless abandon, which if exercised by
Agnostics against Protestant revealed religion,
would assuredly have occasioned prosecutions for
blasphemy. That his logic was assailed was no-
thing; but that bis most cherished religious convie-
tions were trampled on, by implication in some
quarters, and with brutal directness in others, was
sufficient to stir up all the bitterness in any man’s
nature. But Archbishop Vaughan never tlinched.
He showed himself thoroughbred. The altitude of
his tone remained unaffected to the end. He was a
gentleman, although lie was a polemic and an eccle-
siastic. The loss of such an example of dignity in a
high station is a serious one, and while Roman
Catholics chant solemn requiems, we others must
also lament the death of this admirable man in our
own fashion, but with no less sincerity.
The Melbourne Secularists have been in the habit
of holding Sunday services or meetings in the
Bourke-street Opera House, just as our free-
lances in the Theatre Royal. But the Victorian
Government, anxious to preserve the people’s
morals, have issued a prohibition. The devil
reproving sin is nothing to it. We happen to know
a good deal of some of the men who issued this
ukase. Age, by weakening their virility, may
have brought them to view • things from the
psalmist’s standpoint when he, too, was old. But,
not so long ago it was different. They who now
object to the promulgation of views accepted by
themselves in common with the aristocracy of
intellect in the most advanced countries, could not
then be asked to your house or introduced to your
wife or daughter. Their public lives wore crooked,
and their private scandalous. Sceptics iu ail but
name, they belong to the pariah section of that class
—the section that bends to the dust before the faint-
est breath of fanaticism, however ignorant, and
has not the courage of its opinions. Nearly three
hundred years have come and gone since Bruno,
knowing or believing his teachings to be true,
went to the stake sooner than deny them. No
such cruel alternative was placed before Victorian
statesmen. They were merely asked to give a fair
field and no favour to all, and they had not the
pluck to do it. But Victorian Secularists will not
soon forget their cowardice—nor will those in
New South Wales.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“ Genealogy Plantagenet deSmythe was
t ie son of Montmorenci Smyth, the sou of John
Smith....“ Agincourt” Thanks “ Inquirer”:
We don’t advise you to put money in any adver-
tised sweep “D.A.C.” : Declined, after reading
the first two lines : “In the brilliantly-furnished
drawing-room of Esseudon House there reclined
upon an exquisite sofa ornamented with a golden
fringe, a young lady who,” &c. What are yon
giving us, “ D.A.C. ? ! ’ Couldn’t the girl just as
well he cn a stretcher or a Yankee cane sofa ? And
then you haven’t told us what the exquisite sofa
was made of ; and you’ve forgotten to say whether
the golden fringe was bogus or the “real M’Coy,’
hall-marked. Due attention to details will make
your next novel a success “ Annie H.” (Wagga
Wagga); Write to Mr. Simmons, Gaiety Theatre,
Sydney—Condense, and write again
“Thetis” (Lambtou) : Very good. Please send
name and address “C.J.D.”; Your “In Memo-
risin'’ contains two good and three very bad
verses—“A. Sephay Altogether unsuitable
“Mac.”: Ask the priest, or the Worshipful Bill of
the local Orange lodge “P.E.G.” and “T.W.B.”
(Gulargambone): The idea is not new, but will
admit of treatment. By all means send again
“N.P.W.”: As you ask us, we will not “come
down too hard on you.” And, to show you that
we mean this, wc will not publish your “Butcher
Ballad.” Even if it were good, which it really
isn’t, we should not publish it, because punning
verse is played out as far as meat-shop subjects are
concerned “Noumea”: Thanks; hope to hear
from you regularly...“ E.J.”: What such a woman
might have said is, “ I have no loafer (lover) but
my husband.” — “Maitland”: The height you
state for a high standing jump has been beaten
times out of number. We give two authenticated
records. E. A. Johnson, professional, Toronto,
Canada, on 15th August, 1876, 5ft. lin. ; and P.
Hargreaves and E. Moore, amateurs, jumped a tie,
4ft. 10in., on 6th August, 1871, at Pendlebury, Eng-
land— “Mrs. J ”: You ask us to suggest
some remedy against talking in your sleep. We
don’t think any circumstances would justify our
complying with your request. A woman has a
dozen ways of finding out whatever she wants to
know, but a married man very seldom gets a
chance to score. As it seems to be Mr. J.’s innings,
we shall certainly not interfere. The rights ot a
husband must be maintained at all costs “H.D.”
(Araluen): Very cleverly written, but “better let
dead dogs lie.” — “Correspondent”: There have
been convicts and convicts. If there had not been
sent to these shores as convicts, men to whom it
would be an infamous libel to attribute the acts of
some of our unconvicted members of Parliament,
Mr. Hea'ey would,[if he acted as he does, quickly
find his liberty permanently removed, and that
without the sympathy of those of the human
family “who love justice and hate tyranny.”
“J.B.P.”: Good verse. But w0 pretty well ex-
hausted the subject in last issue “Jealousy”:
What are you giving us? “Sophrou”: Thanks;
but you can’t possibly expect us to print six sides
of foolscap about so small an affair... “ W. H.
M’K.”: No, thank you “ Z.P.” : Never mind
contributing to The Bulletin. Shed your energies
on a night school. If you persist in writing to the
?apers, you’ll come to a sudden end “Gold
’en”: You should give your name “ W.J.C.”;
Good items, yes; but not paltry personal remarks.
We do not undertake to return rejected
communications. Writers should keep copies.
This is the tale they tell of an old-time
magistrate in the Far North. Being: carried into
Court and wedged into the sacred seat of J ustice,
one morning, he immediately soaked his throbbing
brow in the ink-pot and sank into a soothing sleep.
By and bye, the Sargint, having rounded up his
charge, awoke the sleeping Solon by ostentatiously
pulling a cork out of a bottle against the slum-
berer's ear, and then His Wusship sat up and roared
“ What the gory Gehenna” (or words to that effect)
“are those condemned lunatics doin’ there—hey ?”
“ They’re charg’d wid bein’ dhrunk an’ righteous
condiot,” replied the “foorce.” “Oh, they gets
dhrunk, th’ scoundrels, duz they?” shouted the
model J.P.; “well thin I’ll stop that game—take
every blanker out at wanstan’ hang ’im (hie), hang
’lm (hie), hang ’Im till he’s crimsoned-well dead.
That’ll keep 'em quite for a while, I’ll swear.
Gimme me hat; got do some 'portant bizniss now
(hie)— hang ’em all.”
William Landsborough.
Twenty years ago, tlio name of William
Lauds borough, the Queensland explorer, was
in every man’s mouth throughout Australia,
lu 1859, he had explored the now famous
Peak Downs, and discovered the line tract
of country at the head of the Isaacs, a tribu-
tary of tne Fitzroy. He gave to geography
ami to pastoral settlement the Nogoa. lii
18(50, he discovered the head waters of the
Thompson, and traced the Herbert and
Gregory Rivers to their sources. In 1863, he
headed an expedition in search of Burke
and Wills, and, starting from the Albert
River, crossed the continent to Victoria.
Altogether, he was the first man to traverse
and explore a territory larger than France,
and the pastoral country discovered by
him, at this day probably yields its occu-
pants yearly incomes aggregating a million
sterling. But, like so many other explorers,
William Landsborough failed to benefit com-
mercially by his own exploits. Honour was
to him barren honour. The kindliest and
most genial of men, liked and respected by
all who know him, he is not, as might have
been expected, a millionaire. He has indeed
a service of plate, presented to him by Sir H.
Barkly, valued at £500. And he has a gold
watch, presented by the President of the
Royal Geographical Society. But big stations
or vast freeholds he has none. Mr. Lands-
borough is an Inspector of Stock in the
Queensland Civil Service, and his stalwart
figure and good-humoured countenance are
familiar to residents of Brisbane.
Dr. Badliam’s banquet on Tuesday night,
attended by about 200 guests, was the most bril-
liant affair of its kind. Three long rows of tables
and a cross-head were filled by the best-known
scholarly and professional men of the city. Sir
John Hay was chairman, in place of Sir Alfred
Stephen, who was unable to attend; and on his
right ahd left were Dr. Badham, Judges Innes and
Faucett, Hons. Alexander Stuart and Alexander
Campbell, and Professors Liversidge, Smith, and
Stephen. After an elaborate dinner, served hot in
the best style of the City Catering Co., the
“ Queen ” and “Governor” were disposed of, and
the Hon. W. B. Dailey proposed the night’s toast—
“ Dr. Badham,” paying graceful tribute to his
European reputation, eminent culture, his buoy-
ant nature, practical life, and the consuming love
of knowledge which animated him to a less de-
gree only than did his tireless solicitude for
students struggling up the heights or learning:
no man had done more forthc higher education of
our people. When Dr. Badham rose, minutes
passed before his deprecating smile could still the
roars of cheering, as he climbed on to a chair; and
never made he a happier speech. Enriched with
gems of thought,fy ightened with flashing Jest; with
not a point weak, nor a phrase misplaced, he rose to
the occasion in one of his choicest orations. What
had he done to merit such praise ? He preferred to
t . take it, not as a reward for his works, butrather
as consolation offered to recompense him for that
wherein he might have failed. And thou he eulo-
gised culture, made a brave defence of Greek, was
scathingly severe on its would-be abolitionists, and
lamented the miserable poverty of great public
speakers. The “University” was proposed by the
Hon. G H. Reid, and the party scattered shortly
before midnight.
Boland’s Royal Hotel, Springwood.—
One of the most delightful recruiting grounds for
the city business man is Springwood. away among
the m iuntains; and in that pleasant little spot is to
be found the essential of a country change, a first-
rate hostelry, in Boland’s Royal Hotel. The hotel,
of which an engraving is given elsewhere, was
specially built to accommodate visitors from the
metropolis, and its good management has earned
for it a fiist-class reputation. The surrounding
scenery is grand, and there is an ample field for the
sportsman. Springwood is the sanatorium of the
big city, being easily and cheaply reached per
train each day. The hotel is always crowded with
visitors on the Saturday and the Sunday, the rail-
way arrangements permitting of an enjoyable trip
on the days mentioned.
To the Electors of the Glebe
FELLOW-ELECTOR3,— Consequent on the re-
signation of your late member I beg to
apprise you of my intention of contesting the seat
in Parliament thereby rendered vacant.
I have been a resident of your borough for a
number of years, and the pressing wants still un-
attended to are evidence of a strong necessity of
importing energy and business capability into
your Parliamentary Representation.
I am in favour of an amended Land Act, which
shall give encouragement to the settlement of a
hnnaflde agricultural population on the lands of
the Colony, debarring those who do so from mere
speculative purposes.
I am also in favour of the abolition of Auction
Sales, and the leasing on a secure tenure of the
large tracts in the far interior to those who give
preference to pastoral pursuits.
The Licensing Act in its present form I am of
opinion is whollv unacceptable to this community,
and 1 shall accord my support to its modification.
I am not in favour of any disturbance of the
Public School System as at present before the
country, and shall support its countenance.
I am in favour of having the present unneces-
sarily harsh Law of Libel considerably mollified,
and it shall be my earnest endeavour to assist in
establishing such a measure as will command the
approval ot the country.
I am in favour of a thorough establishment of
Local Government Boards, as decentralization in
every instance where put on a well considered
footing has been found to be efficient, and to meet
all requirements.
I arn in favour of a measure to facilitate the
granting ot Patents to our Colonial Artizans, and
shall give my earnest support to the development
and encouragement of native industiies.
It is needless to say that personally I feel the
want of attention to Local matters. Sewerage
Accommodations, Post and Telegraph Office, and
the putting ot the Pyrmont Bridge Road in a pro-
per state of repair, being among the prominent
wants of the electorate.
The removal of the present Abattoirs being de-
termined on, it is as necessary to give attention to
the site it is Intended to place them on as to their
removal.
I shall take an early opportunity of addressing
you personally and entering more particularly
into the details ot the various questions which
engage public attention at the present juncture,
and assuring you thc/t, if favoured with your con-
fidence, 1 shall not be found wanting in my en-
deavours to serve you faithfully and well,
I am,
Your obedient servant,
HENRY DALY.
2, Victoria Terrace, Hereford-street.


TOPICS OF THE TIME.
Baron von Mueller makes an appeal to settlers
in outlying districts to aid him in his botanical
researches. He urges “inland and northern and
far eastern settlers to induce the natives to bring
in baskets, specimens of all sorts of plants, to be
dried at the stations and forwarded to me by
post.” All right, Baron, we have planted a bed
of onions, and, just as soon as they sprout, will
dry a few specimens and send to you.
With reference to the Premier’s
trip to the Clarence River district,
it is his intention to make a care-
ful inspection of the Clarence River
Heads, so as to be able to form
some estimate of the magnitude of
the works required to improve the
entrance, and the amount of the
probable cost.
As a rule immigrants do not bring
over much cash with them, and in these
countries persons without friends may
soon exhaust what little money they
brought on shore.— Exchange. And
then it is rather embarrassing to have
to explain to a pretty bar maid that
you came away from—New York, say—
and left all your money in a pill-box on
the dresser.
The invention of a Frenchman
named Antoine Leblanc for the
extermination of rabbits was put
to a practical test in Victoria
lately. Four rabbits were placed
in a wooden tunnel te represent
a burrow. At one end of this
was placed a receptacle in which
gas was generated, which, when
allowed to enter the tunnel, al-
most immediately proved fatal
to the rabbits. Splendid idea.
No doubt every rabbit in Aus-
tralia will voluntarily rush into
this “tunnel” to be smothered
in scientific fashion.
The Countess of Rosebery is the only child and
heiress of the late Baron Mayer De Rothschild, of
London. She had a fortune of £4,000,000, and on
her wedding day, so it was reported at the time,
she presented the Earl with a golden casket con-
taining a cheque for half-a-million. Now, our
friend Popkins says he was married nearly a
year before his wife presented him with any-
thing; and then it wasn’t a cheque, for half-u-
millionjby a long chalk, i
Jurors residing south of the Annan River excuse themselves from
attending the court at Cooktown on the ground of risk to life from
alligators.
In the Tasmanian Assembly, on
August 9, the Treasurer alleged that
Mr. Reiby, while sitting as a member
of the House, had repeatedly stated
outside of it that the colony was not
fit for an honest man to live in. Reiby
denied the charge with indignation,
and the air began to darken with
visions of blood-stains and scattered
hair; but the Treasurer accepted the
denial. He then promised to make
“only one more reierenee to the re-
marks of the hon. member for West-
bury,” but the reference was taken
out of his mouth by the sound of a
powerful steam whistle on the river.
It must have been a very powerful
steam whistle, indeed, to silence an
M.P. under these circumstances.
In a recent number of the Spectator we are
told not simply that there is stall plenty of
money in England, but that the holders of
money do not know what to do with it. Why,
just let them send it out here, by all means.
Our boots sadly need half-solemg,
“ In the Spring a young man’s fancy
Lightly turns to thoughts of love.”
At the launch from Thorneycrof t’s
yard, Chiswick, of a torpedo boat,
for Victoria, Mr. R. Murray Smith,
the Victorian Agent-General, made
some remarks, in the course of which
he pointed out that England must
recognise the wants of the colonies,
and must even listen to an occasional
talk on the subject of annexation
without being alarmed.


THE NEWSLETTER.
A monkey, who recently lived at the Swan
Hotel, Mechanic’s Bay, N.Z., attacked an infant in a
perambulator, and seriously barked the child’s
face and body. He probably thought he was the
rightful heir to the “ pramberlater.” Next day he
hung out in the dust-bin.
Mr. Neville Griffiths, in his speech, said
that he was in favour of the analysis of public-
house liquors ; but that Inspector Fosbery told
him out of 200 samples got in Sydney, not a dele-
terious ingredient was found in any of them. The
only possible suggestion in explanation of Mr. F.’s
statement, Is that all the samples were procured
at the same house.
Thirty-six white work-men arrived the
other day, at Townsville from Dungeness. Some
people allege that these men have been “sacked” by
the sugar planters on the Herbert to make room for
a batch of 39 Coolies, amongst which black contin-
gent there were two or three clerks, a practical en-
gineer, and several artizans.
An old hag, with bones like a horse,
wanted to know, in a Melbourne court lately, if
her daughter—a young girl of 16—couldn’t be
compelled to contribute to her—the old hag’s—
support. She Wiis answered in an emphatic nega-
tive. There are lots of such women about who
are not ashamed to sell their daughters to sin for
the sake of being “supported.” And the support,
when obtained, always leaves the gainers in the
gutter. Gin.
“Itis wonderful,” writes a correspondent,
“ how free Noumea is from robberies. Although
the place is full of released convicts, in summer
few people think of shutting their doors at night.
When robberies are committed it is simply the
kitchen which is despoiled — a robbery with
violence has not occurred for many years.” We
have in Sydney many robberies with violence.
Which only shows how superior we are to the
French.
A Chinaman died the other day in Wagga
at 66 years of age. Mr. A. G. Jones, the member
for that town, spoke of the deceased as “ the only
Chinaman he would not have driven out of the
colony.” This was because Mr. A. G. Jones knew
him. There is a good deal in knowing people. If
Mr. Jones knew some of the white men that we
know ho would reverse his method of argument,
and vote for them to be driven out of the colony.
But he doesn’t, and so he wears a white hat and is
mildly joyful.
Who is answerable for the frequent idiotic
changes of name of country post-olfices? For
instance, “Fairfield” is henceforth to be known
as “ Krawaree,” a by no means euphonious desig-
nation. Some native names are charming, others
hideous. “Krawaree ” is of the latter stamp.
When a liquid mellifluous aboriginal name is
changed into “Pottsopolls,” “ Blmkenvllle,” or
Mosestown ” to do honour to some locol bigwig,
the public have a right to complain, as they also
have when a decent designation like “ Fairfield ” is
altered into one like “ Krawaree.”
A Redfern man snaps his fingers at the
truant inspector’s taunts, and so do his sisters and
his cousins and his aunts. It appears it pays young
Joseph better to work than study, and so old
Joseph toes the scratch punctually twice a year
and puts up his 30s. fine. It now leaks out that the
semi-inspired compulsory clause only gives in-
spectors the power to summons once every six
months; and as some boys can work the fine out in
a week, it is only natural to find them clapping
their dexter thumbs to their noses and windmilling
their fingers slap in the sacred face of Justice. We
want more law, and loss lawyers.
The exceptional capacity for blundering
earned by us in the Crimea, did not desert us in
Egypt. Our artillery fire—whore shells were used
—was in many cases about as effective as the fire
from a mob of broken infantry when a regiment
of lancers is “spitting” them. The projectiles
burst long before they reached the other “ fellahs.”
Had the others been German artillery with Krupp
guns, things might have been a trifle unsettled.
All this arose from the fact that untrustworthy
fuzes accompanied our expeditionary force, and
so the shells refused to travel the whole way with-
out going to pieces as if to see what they carried.
A “well-connected” youth down South
has been charged with stealing money from letters.
This species of thieving seems to be quite popular
with the youth of the higher classes. It certainly
is a more light and elegant style of robbing than
burglary or garotting, and, on the whole, perhaps
more productive. And if a young fellow is well
connected he has to spend money. And he could
never lower the dignity of his family by earning
money at common employments, such as are fitted
for the lower classes. What is he to do, then ?
The Southern youth, following the example of
several others of the same class in Sydney, is
alleged to have successfully solved the problem.
Certain idiots are waging a paper war over
the question whether the telegraph operator or
the surveyor is of the higher scientific status.
Considering that no person can be what is con-
ventionally termed a surveyor unless he have duly
qualified by passing an examination, and that
boys and girls can be what is conventionally
termed telegraph operators without any scientific
education at all, and with only just enough
technical skill to enable them to dispatch and
receive messages, comparison between the posi-
tions is out of the question. When the term
“operator” is confined to professionally educated
men or women who have passed in scientific tele-
graphy, then, and not till then, operator and sur-
veyor will be on a level. At present, it is the
telegraphic engineer who grades with the surveyor.
The Editor, Bulletin ;—“ Sir, In the
Srinted ‘Conditions for competitive designs for
ew Public Offices, Brisbane,’ this clause is in-
serted : ‘ The Government consider that the esti-
mated cost should not exceed £100,000—and any
design exceeding that amount will be liable to be
disqualified.’ Such a clause is not fair: it virtually
gives the competitor, whose design costs £300,000,
the same chance of success. In fairness to all, the
words ‘liable to be,’ should be struck out. In the
‘ old country ’ such clauses have made the word
‘ competition ’ to stink in the nostrils of all honest
architects. Therefore. Queensland being a young
country, ought carefully to abstain from anything
that may disgust or lead to a false signification.
Either they should limit the sum to be expended
so that intending competitors may honestly design
a building adapted to their requirements for the
amount named, or they should leave it entirely
open. Yours, &o., ‘ Fairplay.’ ”
Queensland papers, and papers published
in the north of this colony, have been, for some
time past, reeking with gory paragraphs about the
murders of blackfellows. Some were killed by
white men—others by men of their own colour.
We can’t help feeling sorry in a sort of way for
these unfortunate creatures, though we know the
sorrow is so much waste sentiment. In the face of
the awful problem of existence, the most flippant
tongue is still—or, if it isn’t, it had better be cut
out. We don’t know why such poor devils were
ever sent into this world, and we don’t know why
they are so ruthlessly sent out of it. The imme-
diate cause, of course, we do know. It is rum ;
and we should like to serve a few of those who
serve them with it in the manner in which they are
served, and serve others when they drink it. This
sentence may not seem clear, but our meaning is
clear enough. We mean that we should like to
hang over their own doors a few of the publicans
who serve blackfellows with liquor, knowing what
results from it. We may not be great at philosophy,
but we are giants at practice.
The news is almost too good to be true.
Every now and then intelligence arrives that
prompts us to say “yes” to Mallock’s question “ Is
life worth living? When Tyndall proposed to
get 350 fever patients in one hospital and let all
the devout in Great Britain pray for their re-
covery, while treating secundum arte m equal
number of similar cases in another inst itution—
just to see what would be the percentage of re-
coveries in each place—we felt easy. When the
Chancellor told Colenso’s brethren who wanted to
run him out of South Africa, that they “ couldn’t
do it” ; when Moscow’s Mayor told his master a
few truths, Charabord the French people that
“ his ’art was true to th elleur de lys" and Jemmy
Service informed the British Lion that Australia
was no longer a “ no man’s land” forthe reception
of out-throats—we were glad. But, to see delight
in its most demonstrative form, the public should
have looked into our “ boudoir” when the news
arrived that a lot of the Israelite money lenders in
Melbourne, had been let in for seven or eight
thousand, Moses Goldstein, a shixty per shenter—
Marks Herman, (Young Petty’s friend) who
charged 1400 per cent. I and is known as the
“Napoleon of finance”—S. Jacobsen, M. Moss and
A. Waxman ; also Hookura, who finances for the
Civil Service,—they are all in it. Never, since they
had to “ footit” towards the “ waters of Babylon,’’
has such tribulation fallen on Israel. As their fore-
fathers spoilt the Egyptians so they have been
spoilt by White. Heaven help the Christian that
gets into their clutches after this. Clarke will not
soon be forgotten. And if the forgery had been
sufficiently extensive to reduce these gentry to
baskets and some needles and thread, we would go
on a week’s boisterous dissipation.
Feeling dull the other night, we hunted
through our file for lively reading. We lit upon
an account of the murder of Tommy York, the
Chinaman, up at Tingha. We have had the night-
mare ever since. This murder is the most mixed
affair we have come across for a long time. Tommy
York “ laid ” for Dan Gogue, his father-in-law, and
Dan Gogue “ laid ” for him. There was a fight, and
Dan came off best. It appears Tommy’s wife was
living with her parents, and Tommy thought they
kept a “ bad house,” so he wanted to take her away
from it. His father-in-law—a Chinaman also—was
expecting him, and took a tomahawk to bed with
him, in order to receive his son-in-law with proper
ceremony. The son-in-law came in, and Dan, dis-
carding the tomahawk, choked him. “Then,”
says Dan—mark the Chinese coolness—“ I opened
his eyes to see if he was dead.” After seeing this
to his satisfaction, Dan went out and reported the
decease of his son-in-law to the police as calmly as
if he were telling them that he had lost a goat.
This is clear enough, but the testimony of the
mother-in-law and half-bred wife and sister con-
fuses things. Anyhow, the ease is interesting as a
revelation of the queer state of affairs that exists
where households are made up of a mixture of
Asiatic pariahs and European outcasts.
We are a moral people. We paid £20,000,000
to liberate the West Indian “ niggers,” and, while
the slave-trade flourished in the Southern States,
we employed cruisers on the West Coast of Africa
to rescue the “miserables” from the horrors of
the middle passage, strong protests are sent to
the French authorities to induce them to keep
their criminals at home instead of placing them
within a week’s sale of the Australias. All this and
more have been done, so that the following from
the Perth Inquirer, apropos of the aboriginal
prisoners confined in the island of Rottnest (sug-
gestive name), W.A., is apt to ruffle our com-
placency : —“ Poor wretches, suddenly removed
from a tropical climate, to be confined on
a cold, spray-beaten island, situated one
thousand miles south of their own dis-
trict, have been attacked by an epidemic, from
the effects of which they have been dying off like
fluke-rotted sheep. Wnat has been the state of
these afflicted prisoners, thus struck down by the
ravages of a cruel disease engendered by the effect
upon their systems of an to them unnaturally
cold and humid climate ? They have been housed
like nigs, they have been treated worse than dogs.
Lying in their own filth, from which they were too
weak to even crawl, insufficiently clad, improperly
fed, without the necessary skilled medical attend-
ance, they have died—died under conditions of
indescribable horror, which ought to bring down
the vengeance of their Maker upon the heads
of those whose callous neglect has allowed
such a state of things to occur. Even when
dead the poor wretches are not at rest.
There is a burial-ground on the island, in
which the bodies of the dead are buried deep
enough only for the earth to little more than cover
them. There are pigs on the island also; the gate
of the cemetery is more frequently open than
shut, the pigs are allowed to roam about, and —
but we will not disgust the public by entering into
any more details.” There. The questions that
spring unbidden to the lips are: “ Can these abomi-
nations be true, and—if wholly or partly so—who
is responsible ?” Nor will the feeelings of surprise
and disgust with which men will receive these
revelations be allayed until both questions are
fully answered. The story is a hideous one. It is
as hell-like as anything in the wildest nightmare.
The annals of Port Arthur, as written in “ His
Natural Life,” contain nothing more horrible.
Is H.M.S. Nelson a “convict ship ?”
“ Shall we, Victorians—being a free, loyal,
and thoroughly well-behaved community—tamely
allow ourselves to, &c. ... It would be a shame
to our manhood, and an abandonment of our claim
to be called true Englishmen,” &c. That is how
the Melbourne World saws the air. By the way,
did it not appear in the evidence of the Shops
Commission that the “ true Englishmen ” who run
the World were mostly boys—Don’t abandon
“ the claim,” ambitious juveniles. Stick to it, and
always talk big I
If we could get hold of Fortune when she
wasn’t looking, we should most certainly assault
her with a hatchet. Over in Adelaide last week, a
young man, who was looking for employment as a
labourer, got a letter from England informing him
that his uncle had left him land worth £34,000.
This item would madden us did we not calm
ourselves with the reflection that the lucky
heir will, if ho is like the rest, be dead of
drink in a twelvemonth. We are just as
tired as we can be, without lying down
and giving up the game of life altogethoi’, of
hearing about the colossal pieces of good luck
falling to the chance of everyone but ourselves
Men who are good for nothing in life or out of it
—scapegraces, ne’er-do-weels, rakehells of every
kind, after leading the most godless and lawless
lives, all seem to fall naturally and fitly into the lap
of luxury, while we, whose history is irreproachable
and rigidly respectable—barring a few trifling
laches, such as slaying a poet or two, and maiming
four or five impresarif)s; we, who have flung the
flowers of an airy fancy and the fruits of our bril-
liant intellect to the tour winds, to spring again
into flower and fruit in the breasts of this and
many a generation to come, have never had as
much left to us as would pay our funeral expenses.
Wo have had something left to us, certainly. We
got news that an uncle of ours died a little while
ago. He died in an Inebriates’ Retreat, and left us
his advice. It was: “Take warning by the un-
happy fate of your poor old uncle. I drank all I
earned, and all I could borrow, and all I could
stick up. Then they sent me here. I have been
here for a number of years, doing nothing. Don’t
you ever give way to drink, or some day you will
be doing nothing, and got board and lodging for
doing it.” We have been seldom sober since we
received this warning.
A “gay Lothario” over in Christchurch,
N.Z., met a lady—pretty, and the wife of a gentle-
man in position—in the street one evening, and
kissed her, whether she would or no. She went
home and became delirious. The husband is taking
“ legal proceedings.” Perhaps the old chivalrous
days were not of much account, but there was one
virtue about them, anyhow—where the honour of
women were concerned they didn’t take “ legal
proceedings.” If such a cowardly offence as this
had been committed against a man’s wife then, he
would have settled the matter with steel. In
America, even now, they would arrange it with
lead. These are the customs we regret.
Davies, the unique, was not at the Mayor’s
Ball; he went instead to see the “ Woman of the
People,” and though the sensation knocked him (to
speak Robertsonianly, into a cocked Coonanbara,
Set we are glad to state that he was not seized (like
ir. Rh >des) with “ a fit.”
Says the London Queen ; “English ladies,
who ride, wear high Wellington boots and wash-
leather trousers. We prefer the soft woollen twill
which is made expressly for this purpose.” We
are amused.
It is in Sydney alone, that lady nurses have
turned out an irremediable failure. The cause of
this has yet to be discovered. The fact is that,
other things being equal, the cultivated woman is,
as a nurse, far before the Uncultivated. The chief
complaint against her—the one that overtops all
others—is that she is not amenable to discipline.
She wants to know, you know. This is the osten-
sible reason why surgeons view her suspiciously
Has it any foundation ? Well, not much. Had the
surgeons — the young ones particularly — been
frank, they would have formulated their grie-
vance somewhat after this fashion:—“ We dislike
these women because they exact from us a defer-
ence we are unwilling to give, because we cannot
order them about, and occasionally swear before
them. While engaged in offices that many women
would shrink from, even in their own homes, they
seldom forget they are ladies. True, even the
rudest patients prefer them. Under their charge,
the noisy and foul-mouthed put on ovei-coat oi
decency. They have an influence over the class of
patients that crowd our hospitals which vulgar
women never acquire. The coarsest man re-
spects a gentlewoman, when he pays little
heed to others. But the well-being or comfort of
pauper patients should not be put in the scale
against our convenience or comfort. In a word,
we dislike lady nurses because—well, because they
are ladies. There.”
The “ agony” column of the Times during
the Franco-Prussian war, was as lugubrious as an
Irish Banshee, but it was jocose compared with
the column of “Missing husbands” in a London
journal. The same dreary experience seems com-
mon to all the poor women, who, day after day,
apply to the police courts of Balybon for their
worthless mates. “ Age '39, heignt 6ft 3in„ com-
plexion dark,” was one’s description of the absent.
A fellow like that never turns up again Not
long ago a lady created some interest in London
by toiling slowly up a steep street on a tricycle,
until at last she came to a stand-still, fairly “ used
up.” Some gentlemen gallantly put her over the
crest of the bill. Another lady was seen, having
tackled a hill beyond her strength, laboriously
pushing her vehicle from behind. A medical
authority has hinted that lady tricyclists are
creating “complaints that posterity will perhaps
give a name to.”... .To felicitate a bridegroom on
his marriage day is just about as reasonable as
congratulating a man when he buys a ticket, which
may be a prize and is probably a blank.
THE HOC JANYUS.
BEING OUR SPECIAL REPORT OF AN
ASSAULT CASE.
At Melbourne District Court, the other day, Police
Constable Manny, of the Victorian Foorce, was
proceeded aginst by Sarah Moss, who disposes of
apples, and gooseberries, and sti-awberries, and
hoc janyus homnay (which the Binch said was the
best thing in the trade), for that he did in Bourke-
street, on the night afore, assault the above-min-
tioned Sarah while carrying on a confidential dis-
coorse with her dear friend, Mrs. Jackson, of
Fitzroy. Sarah got in the box, and tuk the oath
with a hearty smack; and after licking her lips and
lucking round for constable Manny, she said, says
she:—“I’m Sarah. I sells all the things ye name,
only the hoc janyus that the liyer, Mr. Gaunson,
spakes of. I never sold no hoc janyus that I knows
of, and don’t think ye could find the skin of one of
them in me shap. Howsomiver, Mrs. Jackson, who
was introduced to me be the Markus himself at the
last ball at the Town Hall —me frind the Markus
saying, with a perlite bow, ‘ Mrs. Moss, allow me to
introduce to you me dear friend Mrs. Jackson’—to
which I replied perlitely ‘ Trot her, Markus,’ —Mrs.
Jackson, I say, was standing with me on the edge
of the flags waiting till I hailed a kerridge to
carry her out to her mansion at Fitzroy, when
constable Manny comes up, and says he ‘Move
an,’ says he. Musha, me face must have got
quite crimson, for I felt me blood boiling at sich
an affront, and, says I, trying to keep down me
passion, ‘Go long with ye, ye lanthern-jawed
leather-head, how darr ye talk to me and me dear
friend, Mrs. Jackson, in such a vulgar style ? Go
long wid ye 1’ Then the constable says, says he:
‘ Move an wid yeesl’ With that he grabbed at me
dear friend, Mrs. Jackson, and me and Mrs. Jack-
son could stand it no longer, and we scratched and
he scratched, and whin he pulled one way we pulled
the other. At last we gev in, but we’re black and
blue, and our arms are all bruised with his vilence.
That’s me tale, yer washups, and I’ll not budge out
of this tub till ye sentence him to be hanged or at
laste transported for forty years.”
Constable Manny was called, and kissed the Book
with a smack that started a horse from the cab-
stand. The Bench went out to look after the horse,
and hearing someone draw a cork from a bottle in
the hotel opposite, went over for a couple of
minutes. When the Bench come back, constable
Manny was still swearing away. He had got the
length of the scratching part, and was perspiring,
and his eyes were like gig-lamps on a muddy night.
He swore up and down, up and down. Then he
spread his arms and swore. Then he put back his
head, puffed out his breast, and swore two tiles
from the roof of the Coort. Then he leaned over,
kindly like, and swore into the ear of the Bench
until the Bench lay down. The sinsation in the
Coort was something tremendjous. A couple of
us went over and lifted the Bench up, but no
sooner did we get it on its end than Constable
Manny let out again, Mrs. Moss all the time saying,
“ Ye lie—ye lie!”
“ What’ll we do ?” says the Bench. “ Hang him I”
cried Mr. Gaunson, the liyer for the plaintiff.
“Hang the woman I” cried Mr. Gillott, the liyer for
the foorce. But me and the other leading reporter
wint round the table, and says we, “ Yer Washup,”
says we, “compromise it,” says we. “Compro-
mise it—what’s that?” says the Binch. “It’s a
Hebrew word,” says we, “ but it manes half and
half.” Ye shud a’ seen the new light come into
the eyes of the Binch. “ Can we do it ?” says the
Binch. “ Of coorse,” says we, “ or where wud be
the palladium of the British law ? Compromise it,
and ye’ll have the whole influence of the Press
behind ye.” “Our decision is,” says the Bench,
drawing itself right on end, “a compromise. We
follow Blackstone in his Statu quo Ante, that most
lucid exposition of the law of assault. This case
stands compromised, sine die.
“Yer Washup!” cried Mr. Gaunson.
“Yer Washup! ” cried Mr. Gillott.
But me and the other leading reporter got our
arms under the Bench, and lifted it to the hotel
opposite, and I only slip out now at midnight to
post ye this report for the paper, as I pro-
mised ye I wud do, Mr. Editor. Lave me at the
Police Court. It’s just the place where me janyus
shines.
To the Public.
THE following is a copy of a letter from the Hon.
John C. New, Assistant Secretary of the United
States Treasury, one of the most distinguished men
of America. It is self-explanatory.
Treasury Department,
Washington, D.C., U.S.A., April 13, 1883
The Charles A. Vogeler Company,
Baltimore, Maryland.
Gentlemen,—It is a source of satisfaction and
pleasure to inform you that from my own personal
experience and observation I am enabled to give
St. Jacobs Oil my cordial recommendation,
I have frequently noted the happiest results
from its use, as a speedy and effective remedy for
the relief and cure of rheumatism and many other
distressing painful ailments, and it is well worthy
of all the high praise that is said in its favour. Its
magical effect has no doubt made “ it conquer
pain”—a familiar watchword in millions of homos.
I congratulate you on being the possessor of
this remarkable agency of healing, and cannot but
thank you for the benefit I have known to be de-
rived from its use.
Believe me, Gentlemen,
Very respectfully yours,
JNO. C. New.
Genuineness Guaranteed.
£100 RBWARD. —A cash reward of one hundred
pounds will be paid by the Charles A. Vogeler
Company of Baltimore, Maryland, United States of
America, proprietors of St. Jacobs Oil, or by their
accredited local representatives, to any person
producing proof to the effect that the testimonials
published by them in regard to St. Jacobs Oil are
not strictly genuine. St. Jacobs Oil conquers pain.
It cures Rhematism, Neuralgia, Headacne, Tooth-
ache, Backache, and all similar ailments. Sold by
Druggists and Chemists everywhere. Price in
New South Wales, half-a-crown a bottle. Direc-
tions for use in eleven languages. Elliott
Brothers, Sydney, Wholesale Depot for N.S.W.
ANJATTACHED CASHIER.
(A suggestion for Bankers who declare 30 per cent. Dividends, and pay their
cashiers £150 a year.)


The Furniture Column.
THE REVISED LISTS. THE REVISED LISTS.
The best and most complete lists we have ever
published.
For the sum of XlOO prompt net cash,
You can Furnish a House as follows:
DRAWING ROOM.
Cretonne drawing room suite
Spiral leg oval walnut table, inlaid
Sideboard with marble slab top, plate
glass back, and three plate glass doors
Walnut occasional table
Whatnot
Pier glass
Four pictures
Cornice pole, with rings, pins, and
brackets
Pair lace curtains
Pair curtain bands
Eight-day striking clock
Suite of vases, or pair of lustres
Kerosene Lamp
Fender and lire irons
Tapestry carpet
Pair of nassocks K
Hearth rug, 8s 6d; door slip, 3s 6d ...
DINING ROOM.
Horsehair spring-seated couch
Six spring-seated chairs to match
Easy chair
Oval dining table
Table cover
Cheffonler
Pair of trays
Pier glass
Pair vases • •
Cornice pole, with rings, pins, and
brackets
Fender and irons
Hearth rug
Best fancy matting
Door slip
BEDROOM No, 1.
Double tubular bedstead
Pair palliasses
Kapok mattress
Flock bolster
Two feather pillows
Bracket chest drawers
Washstand with two drawers and towel-
Whlte and gold toilet set
Fern caraffe
Toilet table with drawer
Table toilets
British plate toilet glass
Two cane seat chairs
Woven seat rocking chair
Matting for room
Door slip
BEDROOM No. 3,
Half-tester bedstead
Pair palliasses
Mattress
Bolster
Feather pillow
Chest drawers
Towel rail washstand and set
Warer caraffe
Toilet glass
C. S. chair
Carpet folding chair
Matting, 5s; door slip, 2s
SERVANT’S ROOM.
Bedstead
Pair palliasses
Mattress
Bolster and pillow
Washstand and set
Toilet table
Glass
Clothes rack
Chair, 3s 6d; matting, 2s 6d
KITCHEN.
Pine dresser with drawer
Table with drawer
Two-door pine safe
Two chairs
12 soup plates ...
13 meat plates
12 pudding plates
12 cheese plates ...
Pair vegetable dishes
Five meat dishes
Two pie dishes ...
Soup tureen
Sauce tureen
Gravy boat
China tea pot
Six china cups and saucers
Six china plates, 6-lnch
Six china plates, 7-inoh
China sugar basin
China milk jug
China butter dish
China slop basin...
Six china egg cups
Two bread and butter plates
Two side dishes
Muffiner ...'
Bleetro-plated cruet
Set of table mats
Bread platter and knife
Pair salt cellars
Set of jugs
Pair out decanters
Cut glass water bottle
Six cut tumblers
Six cut wines
Six soda glasses
Dessert service
Six Mosley’s dinner knives
Six nickel dinner forks
Six Mosley’s dessert knives
Six nickel dessert forks
Pair carvers
Two table spoons
Six dessert spoons
Six tea spoons
Tea pot stand ..
Set of dish covers
Filter, 10s 6d: kettle, 6s 6d; boiler, 10s 6d
Saucepans, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s 6d
Frying pan
Grid-iron
Tin tea pot..
Tea caddy ..
Coffee-pot
Colander
Wash-basin
Dipper
Tubs, 5s and 6s 6d
Buckets, Is 9d and 3s
Wash-board
Two candlesticks
Baking dishes, 8d, lOd
Sausage machine
Pepper caster
Canister
Flour dredge
Set skewers
Meat stand..
Bread crock
Bread grater, 6d; kitchen spoon, 6d
Cook’s fork, 9d; nutmeg grater, 3d
Flour barrel
Cake tin
Egg whisk
Knife box
Paste board and roller
Box iron or pair flat irons
Pair bellows
Candle box
Hair broom, 3s 6d; hand brush, Is 6d
Scrub brush
Knife board and polish
Black lead brushes
Set shoe brushes
Dustpan
festo.” Application for copies will receive
prompt attention. Post free everywhere.
Campbell Brothers,
Royal Furnishing Arcade,
426 6BOU6E STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT THE ROYAL HOTEL.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Another coincidence. Died, August 18th,
i«78 Dr. Quinn, Bishop of Brisbane. Died,
August 18th, 1883, Dr. Vaughan, Archbishop of
Sydney.
The sexton who runs the Hawkesbury
Chronicle says:—“From the sublime to the
pediculous is easy—facilis decensus avernus, but to
rise from the rediculous to the sublime is not so
simple a matter.” Quite so, the thing (in his case)
speaks for itself.
Sir Luke Leake, the Speaker of the West
Australian Legislative Council, has one fixed
opinion. It is that if you snuff up gunpowder in
one nasal orifice, it will at once cure any toothache
in the opposite jaw! This is a fact—we mean the
opinion, not the cure.
The salary of the new Puisne West Aus-
tralian Judge is looked upon as remarkably low at
£700; but a few years back the Crown Solicitor
ft nd maid—or, rather, man—of-all-work to the
Attorney-General only raked in “a fiver” a week!
And he was a Q.C., too, and had a K.C.M.G. tor a
brother!
joe Nieholai, who died last week in the
Destitute Asylum, Adelaide—all heroes die in
benevolent asylums—at the age of 82, had
fought, we are told, under Napoleon just after the
retreat from Moscow, and under Blucher at
Waterloo. Joe was, therefore, at the age of ten
years when he served Nap. and rising fourteen
when he assisted Marshal Forward to lose the
battle of Ligny and spoil Paris.
“Leo Plania” promises to positively prove
that we’re uncircumcised Jews—that Celt and
Cimber Saxon Gael are of the tribes of Israel;
moreover, he admits Professors of History free to
his lectures. Non-professors must pay up. We
anticipate Sladen will constitute Leo’s sole audi-
ence— Sladen, who is evidently the author of the
lines
“ To British heart, to British tongue.
To British mind, to British song,” &c.,
which form the attractive portion of Plania’sadvt.
When Mr. Healy asked that question in
the House of Commons relative to Australian
convict M.P.’s he evidently forgot that some of
our prominent statesmen were Irish exiles. His
question was, therefore, an almost unique piece
of Irish blundering. Someone has apparently
been telling Healy the old story: “What does
M.L.A. mean ?” “ Why, Mustn’t Leave Australia.”
“What does M.L.C. mean?” “Mustn’t Leave the
Colony.”
Gough, of the South Yarra Palaoe Hotel,
finding a burglar on his premises last week, collared
him and threw him out of an upstairs window.
Now, that’s real business—and just the way with
the Goughs, whose motto is “ Faugh-a-ballagh,”
and who are apt to take after the member of their
race of whom the “ Irish Whisky Drinker ” sang:—
“ Quoth Gough at the noise: ‘ Screw bayonets, boys,
And drive the blayguards out of the jungle.’
Sabres drawn and bayonets ttxt,
Fight where fought great Alexander;
Paddy Gough’s a cross betwixt
A bulldog and a salamander.”
Many who remember Mr.Ernest Morrison’s
account of his journey across Australia on foot,
and have read his first letter from New Guinea,
are no doubt considerably exercised at the won-
derful change for the better in the literary style of
this enterprising young man. This is how the milk
gets into the cocoanut. That well-known and
clever pressman, Mr. Henry Britton, has left the
Augus and joined the staff of the Age, the pro-
prietors of which journal hare, it is said, asked
him to read up everything which has been written
about New Guinea, with a view to “editing” Mr.
Morrison’s “ copy ” as it conies to hand.
A certain very well-known Riverine
squatter finding, recently, that his eldest son had
turned out to be a nuisance at the head station,
called that promising youth to him and
said: “Look here, Mr. Billy, you are no
blanked good for anything, just now. You’re too
cocky, and too cheeky. You’re getting me into
rows with everybody. So you’d just better take
this £50 and two good horses and clear out for a
bit. Don’t come back till you’ve learned that
you’re not the biggest man in the universe. You’re
blessed well off compared with me. I was born in
a pig-stye with a very little man outside and a very
big boar Inside, and I didn’t know which of the
two was my father.”
In a recent Knowledge, Professor Proctor
contradicts the story about his wearing stays. He
explains that when his figure had a kind of Lady
Jane tendency, some fifteen years ago, ho made an
experiment (which was, however, a failure) to limit
his corpulency by waist compression (merely a
band, not stay’s), and he admits to being both sur-
prised and amused to find that a casual reference
which he made tc this old experiment should
“return to me from the Antipodes, after little
more than time to get there and back, in the form
of a recent definite recourse to corsets—now, when
I am considerably past the age at which every man
is either a fool or a physician.”
Mr. Alfred Moul having gone on the
briny, the musical critics of the leading Melbourne
dailies have made a fresh splash. They are going
iu for the comprehensive. In a week or two they
will have swept the decks clean and brought
their readers abreast of the fact that Verdi wrote
operas. Up to the present writing they are in-
structively rudimentary and technically infantile.
Of the last popular concert, the Argus elegantly
observes: “This fine trio was molto allegro
agitato, andante con moto tranquillo, scherzo, and
allegro assai appasionata.” That’s just what the
auditory thought—especially the appasionata, and
still more especially the ass—aye, the assai in con-
nection with it.
Captain Major, who some years ago ran a
small steamer from Townsville to Cardwell, re-
ported having seen some white captives in the
hands of the blacks on Hinchinbrook Island. The
Government chartered a schooner, which was
in Bowen at the time, and called for volunteers to
form a search party. A number joined, and Mr.
Pinnock, P.M. of Bowen, was in charge. Arrived
at the island, a camp of natives was one morning
surprised, and some prisoners taken. The native
police, who were present, interrogated the pri-
soners iu their (the police’s) language, but were
not understood. Then Pinnock took them in hand,
and tried broken English with equal success. At
last a brilliant idea struck the P.M. He started and
spelt all the words he thought too big for their
comprehension. That did not fetch the niggers,
but it did the volunteers, who laughed so heartily
that the hostages got away,
Princess Dolgorouki, the mistress of the
late Czar, has, like Madame de Maintenon, turned
Eious in her old age. She is said to spend most of
er time in praying and in classifying the letters
and papers belonging to the departed Alexander.
In her suite of apartments at the Pavilion Henri
Quatre, St. Germain, there is a room fitted up as
an oratory, and furnished with holy images. This
oratory is illuminated night and day with coloured
lamps. It is sadly amusing to notice how these
gay dames turn to religion at lash—that is when
they can turn to nothing else. And yet, perhaps,
this poor Princess Dolgorouki—who, at least, was
faithful and affectionate—may, in the end, be
counted better than many a naughty saint who
thinks Heaven will be honoured when she enters
into it. Which perhaps it will—when she does.
Sir James Martin, our Chief Justice, is of
the school of the late Sir A. P. Burt, Chief Justice
of that land of legal darkness, West Australia,
chief Justice Burt was in the habit of sitting
solus on journalistic court cases, and sent up
over-candid scribes in a most remorseless
style. He, by the way, objected to the pub-
lication of Police Court depositions, and the
criminal calendar prior to the sittings hav-
ing taken place, and had other notions of a
legal autocratic character that smelt of the last
century. He was backed up by the officers of the
court—all Imperial irresponsible ones—and during
ms long reigu the press had not a rosy time of it.
He was, however, thorougly impartial, and on one
occasion “ jugged ” his Solicitor-General for con-
tempt. Outside these barbaric legal ideas, we may
remark, he was a most social and amiable gentle-
man. The woolsack, as the wig does so many of
our lawyers, completely metamorphosed him.
“ Alick the poet,” as Archibald Forbes’ lost
brother was called, was a well-known man among
the rough, tough pioneers up North, some years
ago. Being educated, and the distinguished
possessor of a prayer-book, he was generally made
an impromptu parson when a death occurred, and
had to read the burial service. The “ Gulf fever ”
took brave men off rapidly then, and Alick was so
often at work that the proceedings were not as
solemn as they might have been. The boys would
be all gathered solemnly round the grave, a mile
or two out of the township, their horses at their
sides, the bridle being looped under their armpits.
Alick would read the service. Just as he came to
the last “ Amen,” and while in the act of saying it
his legs would bestraddle the saddle, and without
an inflexion of tone or a pause, he would say,
“ Last man to the pub. shouts for all hands,” and
the mob would scour off helter-skelter, likegreased
lightning. We suppose there is plenty of free
shouting where Alick is now.
The late Birthday Ball at Brisbane was re-
markable for a liberality in its provisions in strong
contrast to the semi-parsimony which has been
known under certain Governors. Sir Arthur
Palmer, says a writer, is cordial and popular, but
still “ very rough.” The pioneers were like “ our
army in Flanders.” and Sir Arthur still retains his
old habit, and indulges in it with startling vehem-
ence and at unexpected times. Personally he is a
square-set old gentleman with a very erect carri-
age, a keen, bold-looking face, and a wealth of
white beard. Lady Palmer is a quiet-looking
woman who does not seem to stand at all in awe of
her irascible husband, whose bark is, I believe,
much worse than his bite. During supper, Sir
Arthur was on his legs speaking, when some young
couples, very rudely began to steal away. The
host became exceedingly Indignant, aud began to
express his opinion of their conduct in warm
language, when he interrupted himself and
apostrophised his wife. “ My dai’ling, you are
treading on my toes.”
Binalong, the aboriginal king of the
Sydney natives, was taken to England in a man-of-
war and presented to old George the Third and
Charlotte, who received and paid him great atten-
tion, making him a guest at the royal table on
several occasions. Both naval and military uni-
forms were showered upon him from the most
eminent officers, and being as he was, a fine grown
man of about six feet three, he was something to
look at in his uniform, apart from his being an an-
tipodean king. When he returned to Sydney,
Governor Macquarie had been requested by King
George to show him all kindness at Government
House. One day at dinner, after Binalong had
been declaring his affection for brudder George
and sister Charlotte, one of the officers asked him
which he liked best, brudder George or Governor
Macquarie. “ He liked them both same ;” but that
would not do, and he was cruelly pressed to say
which he really liked best. Binalong, finding he
could not back out, was equal to the occasion.
Brudder George was in England. Governor Mac-
quarie was at the table. ‘‘Well,” said he, with
great emphasis, “Brudder George good fellow,
but Governor Macquaile b good fellow.”
Fact!
Blanks, the seven-and-sixpenny Blaekstone
of Dunolly (Vic.), found himself in a two dam par-
ticular fix the other day. His client was being
worried, and ho defended him by stigmatising the
enemy’s remarks as “ d absurd!” “An outrage
on the court! ” yelled police magistrate Carr.
Seven-and-sixpence began to cite precedents, but
was lifted out on to the verandah by a couple of
constables. “ Hees Warshup says he’ll let ye go an
with yer ease ef ye’ll make a hample apology to
the coort.” Accordingly Mr. Blanks slid unto the
table, and expressed his regret at having used
language which, by reason of some years of bush
life, he unconsciously dropped into; “but, your
Worship,” he concluded, ; ‘I can’t help thinking
you were d hard on me!” “Constables!” cried
his Worship; and again Seven-and-sixpence (this
time fighting like a tiger) was lifted out. Blanks
reminds us of an anecdote told of Rev. Dr. Croly,
a R.C. professor of theology, who was “ hearing the
confessions ” of his students one night. He was
quick-tempered and testy; and on a scapegrace of
a student admitting his lapse into profanity, the
confessor went on: “ Bad enough for a layman-
bad enough for a layman; but, for an ecclesiastic,
why it’s d absurd!”
Frederick William Elsasser, the little Ger-
man who stuck a weak-kneed Melbourne pub-
lication for £250, should be one of the richest
men in the colonies. Not to speak of his lingoes—
and each lingo should have been worth at least a
hundred per annum in an appreciative community
—he was reporter for no-end of papers. Even the
Age and Argus were on his string. Indeed, as he
went through the list of his occupations for the
delectation of “the paid liar,” the jury were
naturally surpi-ised that such a Goliath of wealth
should sue for any solace in cash. The evident
inference was that his income could not be less
than about a thousand a year more than the Lord
Chancellor’s. But Mr. Justice Higinbotham, who
himself drove the quill in Melbourne before he
shaved his chin, pathetically disillusioned that
iury. “ A man working like the plaintiff,” said his
lonor, “must reasonably have been a little
pinched for money, and the attempt to damage his
character because he left a few accounts unpaid in
Sydney is extremely unfair, in the circumstances.”
There was another pressman at that table, whose
MS. the sub-editor got troubled about. Just after
that remark of his Honor’s appeared the hiero-
glyphics “ Btm Brk.” “ What’s this ?” asked the
sub-editor. “Ah,” said the pressman, “I beg
your pardon. That was an interpolation; I ran it
in in my excitement.” “ But how did it fit—Bottom
Brick ?” “ He stirred my sense of eternal truth,”
said the pressman, “and I unconsciously jotted
‘ Higlnbotham’s a brick!’ ”
In the varied course of our travels over
Australia, we have met a good many curious
people, but only once have we encountered a man
who has been married thirteen times. This cham-
pion marrying man, now over 70, is living in a
township (not to put it too exactly) between Sydney
and Adelaide, and cheerfully tells the eventful
history of those numerous interesting ordeals.
And, notwithstanding that the old boy, whose
remarkable activity in the social arena has at last
worn itself out, keeps one eye contemplatively
fixed on the expected pleasures of another world,
he gets a good deal of fun still by introspective
glimpses at the joys and griefs he experienced in
the variegated company of those thirteen wives of
his dauntless bosom. Not all at once, he assured
us; he kept the law intact, and every one of these
respective marriages occurred at proper intervals
and under pious circumstances. “ Yes,” he said,
with a thoughtful, yet gratified, smile on his parch-
ment-like old phiz; “ yes, I have actually proposed
in my life t® thirteen young ladies, and been
promptly, I may say cordially, accepted every
time. Never rejected ? No, never ; they invalu-
ably waited in pretty, palpitating suspense for the
expected question, then blushed, gave a little start,
and fell into my outstretched arms as soon as I
asked them.” His first wife, a charming brunette,
died from fever a year from her marriage,
and the second one died in childbirth. Six
months after this event, number three entered
upon her domestic duties. “Yes, I was rather quick,
that time,” said the old fellow, taking the pipe out
of his mouth, and pressing the weed down with the
butt of his pocket-knife ; “but she was a sweet,
sweet girl.” Three years sweet number three
reigned in beauty, and filled the house with glee,
though not materially altering the population ot
the district, and then she went to a land that is
brighter than day. After due mourning, the bold
benedict again led a bride to the altar—one who
brought him a considerable dower, which, how-
ever, he lost in mining specs.; and then she was
gathered in unexpectedly one day as she sat at the
dinner table. “ I never was so surprised in my life,
sir,” he observed, “never, as when my wife died
like that—that particular one, I mean,” he care-
fully added. His next legal partner was a lady of
great spirit and force ol character, and for once
the old gentleman admitted he almost thought he
had committed a mistake, and he reflectively
passed his hand over an old-time scar. But a cold
settled on her lungs, and kindly Providence
brought him relief. The succeeding wives fol-
lowed one another at various stages, so monoton-
ously, in fact, that the oft-widowed one said “ No
sooner did I have a wedding than I had, much to
ray annoyance, to begin preparations for a funeral.
It seemed hard, you know, sir, bride one day,
mortal remains the next.” We here produced a
large-sized handkerchief, and lightly brushed our
dimmed orbs, while the bereaved one went on to
tell how one after another every one of those
memorable and beloved thirteen were transferred
from this scene of activity to the unlimited future:
but we cannot trace them all. At 62 the old gen-
tleman finally gave up such sudden transitions—
from joy to grief and grief to joy strained him too
much. But during all changes the genial old man
was never blessed with a heaven-sent piedge of
affection. With the exception of the one narrow
escape of number two, “ I never managed anything
for the district, or the colony at large, in that line,
said the old hero.
♦ * *
“ The Vagabond” has had a serious differ-
ence with a Noumea firm, concerning some state-
ment made by him about them in the columns
of the Argus. On 11th August, he left for the
New Hebrides We would remind our metro-
politan morning contemporaries, that Scratchley
and Feilding are Majors-General—and not the
former a colonel and the latter a major
A Southern squatter, who 40 years ago, kept
a pound, can sign a cheque for a hundred thousand
sterling. He keeps a good many pounds now
Mrs. Davison died on Saturday week, at Coburg
(Vic.), aged 100 years. She had lived at Pentridfce
42 years.
• • •
The monument to John Brown (vide home
papers) is to have a Scotch thistle on the cornice
and a border of oak and ivy. We can understand
“ thistle,” but the “ oak and ivy”—no The Duke
of Marlborough died two days after successfully
moving the rejection of the Deceased Wife’s Sister
Bill. “ Hand of Divine Providence ” ?
The belle of the Supreme Court —Li-bel.
“This is the season when, shouting “ Queens-
land for white men!” the Northern patriot is
driven up to the election meeting by his own
Kanaka coachman.
A Sunday school teacher in a Western
town, on being presented with a silver watch and
the usual accompaniment of trinkets, is said by
the local paper to have “ expressed his deep thank-
fulness to the loving hearts that had Joined in pre-
senting to him an address so gratifying and a gift
so elegant. The hour, the words, the gift, would
be ever kept among the very precious things.”
What a rare old collection of valuables he must
have! Happy innocence! Wait till he goes out
among the ungodly, gets “broke,” and has to
pawn his elegant gift. There is nobody like a
money-lender for showing the difference between
intrinsic and extrinsic value. We could say a good
deal on this subject, for we have “been there”
ourselves.
The Melbourne Leader writes down
“Capsicum,” the Echo’s authority on dramatic
criticism, a fraud, and says that while he is at home
in Sydney he would be “ burnt in effigy in Mel-
bourne.” We don’t think he would, somehow.
He would enroll himself a member of the Mutual
Admiration Society and flourish. We should like to
know whether the man who wrote this par. thinks
he could teach the world much, or the “ ASgles ”
who dishes up Joe Millers for the Australasian ?
It is true the Sydney man who writes under the
name of “ Bavard ” in that paper is rather weak
toast-and-water, but then, on the other hand, look
at the Melbourne paper which has adopted
our name ! Several well-advertised Melbourne-
ites are all credited with saying and writing
“good things.” These good things, if ever they
are written, don’t appear. Deakln of the Leader
(“Atticus”) is supposed to be a wit; yet no one
who reads (if they can read) his small beer
chronicle of Victorian politics can help yawning
like a ravine over every paragraph. We don’t
admire “Capsicum ” at all; but we are quite sure
there is by far too great a spirit of fair play
amongst Victorians to kill the Echo man and let
some of the Others live. We could spare old “Cap.”
all right, and also a truck-load of our poets. Not
even this contingent could make some of the
Melbourne weeklies more dismal than they are.
And a few of our bards are pretty marrow-curd-
ling too.
If people would only exercise more judg-
ment than credulity, they would take nothing Into
the system, but what, like Wolee’s Schnapps
vindicates its ualue by its effects.
Pious Picton.
O Picton is a pious place,
Which we would have you know;
If you’re not in a state of grace
To Picton do not go.
The girls are modest there, though gay.
They would not give (no jest!)
A single kiss to you, for they
Like married kisses best.
They do not ogle with their eyes,
They never, never wink,
But turn the whites up to the skies
And of the angels think.
Propriety, you bet, does hem,
These girls from vulgar view;
Their young men must make love t® them
A speaking-trumpet through.
Well, as it fell upon a day,
Not very long ago,
These little saints they hired a shay—
That shay it was a show.
A show! A perfect circus-car;
They looked so nice and smart
A-sitting on a wooden bar
That stretched across the cart.
For they were going out to greet
'L he Gospel Harmy then—
The Harmy, sirs, they didn’t meet,
So they came homo again.
Came home again a-singing hymns
To many a pious air,
The sweetest bird the air that skims
To them could not compare.
A group of sinners unbaptlsed
They passed with holy “ hail ”—
When suddenly the cart capsized
And—here we draw the veil!
Rose Leaves.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The reign of the rose is past,
And the last rose-leaf is shed;
But the rose of love burns red,
While lover and loved one last.
So, never the winter dread,
O my sweet, nor his skies o’ercast;
At his heart a coal burns fast.
That shall wake up the summer dead.
From the skies at his angry frown
Are the sunset and sunrise fled—
The great roses of God o’erhead—
Thou shouldst mourn so with eyes cast down 7
Though they were I should not miss,
For thy heart is the rose of love,
And thy lips the red buds thereof,
And the sunrise of love a kiss.


E
NTIRELY NEW AND HITHERTO
UNKNOWN.
The DESCENT and DESTINY of the BRITISH
PEOPLE by
Mr. LEO. PLANIA.
The IRISH, WELSH, SCOTCH, and ENGLISH in
their entirety positively I? rc Wa
T1VB HISTORICAL and UNDENIABLE ETY-
MOLOGICAL FACTS to be the LOST TEN
TRIBES of ISRAEL. „ TOmAn , T J
1st Lecture. —According to HISTORl
MOLOGY, FRIDAY, 34th August, PROTES-
TANT HALL, 8 p.m. „_ T „ .
2nd Lecture—According to BIBLE and Social
Conditions. , , „ ,,
3rd Lecture— AUSTRALIA, the last of the OLD
and the first of the FEW BRA.
Tickets, 3s, 2s, Is, at Mrs. Abbott's, Oxford-street;
J. J. Moore and Co.’s, E. F. Flannigan’s, J. L.
Smith’s, W. Muddocks’s E. R. Cole s, C. J.Sandon’s,
Goorgo-street. Members of the Sydney Hebrew
Club and Professors of History will be furnished
with free tickets on application to Mr. M. M Kay, 1,
over 63, Hunter-street.
Questions answered after each lecture.
To British heart, to British tongue.
To British mind, to British song,
To British fathers, British sons.
To all the daughters Albions,
To Celt and Ciinber, Saxon, Gael,
To all the tribes of Israel,
To all t he strangers joined to Zion,
To all the rest of Judah’s lion.
To all the earth that is at hand,
To be for ever Holy Laud,
That every tongue may sing and had—
“ Who is like thee! O Israel.”
T. VINCENT’S HOSPITAL
annuaiT ball.
Under the distinguished patronage of
His Excellency the Bight Hon. Lord AUGUSTUS
LOFT US, G.C.B., and
Lady AUGUSTUS LOFTUS and SUITE.
EVENING DRESS (ONLY).
s
Gentlemen’s Tickets
Ladies’ Tickets
£1 1 0
10 6
EXHIBITION BUILDING,
PRINCE ALFRED PARK,
TUESDAY, 4th SEPTEMBER, 1883.
A. J. BRADY.
W. H. M’CARTHY, )
*-Hon. Secs.
Wool Warehouse
Circular Quay & Darling
Harbour, Sydney.
TO WOOLUROWERS AND OTHERS
As the Wool Season is again approaching, we
avail ourselves of the opportunity of addressing
you in regard to the disposal of your ensuing clip,
and to bring- under your consideration some of the
inducements which exist for offering wool in this
IU lt that the conditions of the SYDNEY
WOOL MARKET are undergoing rapid and com-
plete alterations. In former years, through want
of carrying facilities, a very large quantity of Now
South Wales wool was diverted to Melbourne;
while, on the other hand, the competition in this
market was largely confined to those who bought
on speculation lor re sale in London, or for remit-
tance. This state of things no longer exists. With
the manufacturers, both of England and the Lou-
tinent, itie a point of the greatest possible conse-
quence to have their goods early in the market. It
is evident that he who sends his agent to Australia
with instructions to supply his wants there, and to
ship direct, gets a long start of the man who waits
to buy in the London sales, and it is no exaggera-
tion to say that the one has made his cloth before
the other has bought his wool.
That this fact is fully appreciated by manu-
facturers is evidenced by the yearly increasing
throng of buyers who attend the Sydney Wool
Sales, representing all parts of Europe and also-
America, furnishing an amount ot competition
which guarantees full values being obtained.
So convinced are we that the SYDNEY WOOL
TRADE is destined to assume much greater
dimensions that we have recently purchased land
for the erection of warehouses, which, when com-
pleted, will contain more than three times the
quantity of wool for which we at present have
store room. ,
While expressing our strong belief m the ad-
vantages of the SYDNEY MARKET, we are
always ready, in the absence of satisfactory offer
here, to ship to London, where consignments to
the care of our LONDON HOUSE will be received
and dealt with under the personal supervision of
our Mr. Buchanan, who has been for many years
closely identified with the Sydney business, and
who has the assistance of a fully competent staff.
Mr. Laidley Mort, who during many years charge
of our business in London has acquired a com-
plete knowledge of the London wool trade, has
recently arrived here, and will now devote himself
entirely to the SYDNEY BUSINESS.
We would point out that while the effect of the
extension of the New South Wales Railways has
been to bring a large number of new clips to this
port, the improved means of transit have also
tended to concentrate the trade into a very shor
period, necessitating much larger storage aceorn'
modaiion, but for a shorter time than formerly. To
meet the increasing demand upon our storage ac-
commodation, we have, pending the erection of
additional warehouses referred to above, secured
the EXHIBITION BUILDING at Prince Alfred
Park, which, with our existing LARGE WARE-
HOUSES at the CIRCULAR QUAY, and at DAR-
LING HARBOUR RAILWAY TERMINUS, will
enable us to receive and deal with a large increa e
of business. We have an experienced staff, wl.o
are conversant with all the requirements of trade,
and every care is taken to fully protect the inter
ests of our constituents. Every lot displayed for
sale, whether LARGE or SMALL, is closely valued
before being offered, and, when required, owners
are communicated with before disposal.
WOOL or OTHER PRODUCE will be received
for us at any of the RAILWAY STATIONS or by
the STEAM COMPANIES, and duly forwarded.
During the season we hold public AUCTION
SALES of WOOL on WEDNESDAY and FRIDAI
in EACH WEEK, and of Other Produce on Alter-
nate Days. In cases where Owners’Limits are not
realised at auction or subsequently by private
contract, we are prepared to ship at lowest
freight and charges, and make LIBERAL CASH
ADVANCES. x . ,
OWNERS desiring their Consignments msuiea
in transit from Station will require to give specific
instructions to that effect. ,
Way bills and any further information forwardea
on application. , _ „
LIBERAL CASH ADVANCES are made on Con-
signments, whether for sale or shipment, and also
by way ot Lien on the growing clip
Co.,
WOOLBROKERS,
Stock and Station Agents.
Angust, 1883.
THE BUGGIES OF THE PERIOD.
Unequalled for Durability and Elegance.
WAGGONETTES & EXPRESS WAGGONS
I3T FIRST-CLASS WORK ONLY IMPORTED,
WILLIAM FLEMING, 2 & 24 C/arence-st.,
SYDNEY.
RRnnK'SlSEWlNGICDTTONS
ip
s
m
&
SB
58
t
Q
P
O
o
CC
*7
$
O
BUS"-
O E M
» A* .1
BROOK’S SIX-CORD
SOFT COTTON
i NEW SHOULDER REEL
VERY CAREFULLY MADE
FOB
HAND ft MACHINE SEWING,
BROOK’S PATENT
G LAC El THREAD
» White, Black & all Colours lie NEW SHOULDER REEL
Ks —-'mTfeX
A
>IBBS,
BRIGHT & CO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
met BOURNE ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN.
ANTONY^GIBBS.SONS & LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS’& SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
Principal. Agencies :
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTO N-Head Office
J. C. Goatling and Company (Limited) —Portland Cement.
The Tunnel Portland Cement Compan
HONGKONG,
oanv (Limited)—Portland Cement
££ (fompanyjIdmlfed)fdain8borouffh-Portable Horizontal, and Vertical Engines,
Threshing 1 Machines, Saw Benches, &c„ &c.
Crosslev Brothers (Limited)’, Manchester—Tho celebrated “ Otto " Silent Gas Engines.
Sow Kchlan and Company, Paisley-Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &c., &o.
Thos. Glover and Company, London—I atent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian and Sons —Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penvrorsedd Slate Company (Limited)— Bangor Slates.
The Quieksilvor Mining Company, San I ranoisco—Quicksilver, ,
Pels and Company, of Patras and Cortu—Currants.
BiUor Plates, Iron anO
Steel Fencing Wire, &c.
Thos Perry and Son, Bilston- Fire-resisting Safes.
Drvbrough and Co., Edinburgh—Ale.
Brunton and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety I use.
Thos N. Hunt —Port Wine. _ „
Du bos F re res, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablis, Sauterncs
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES. „ , „
New South WAT.Ea.-Seott and Mullaly, T. Allsop, F. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros.,
J v^Torfi'l 1 —James Fry and Co„ W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
South Aitst ua" iaf-W. C. Harrison and Co.. Truslove and Addison, II. Hmeks.
iNDFNTS executed, on the most favourable te-ms, from all pails of the world. Consignments
INDEN received lor shipment to London, under liberal advances.
VIRTUTIS GLORIA MERGES.'
COALCLIFF GOAL.
s NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY supplies the CHEAPEST, CLEANEST, and
8 THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony,
£1 per Ton net, delivered within city bounds.
some fumes given off by a breeze or gas Are.
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
Office: A. B. BLACK, 247 George Street,
0T DEPOT: WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
n A I E T Y
THEATRE
Lessee Herr Bandmann.
“ Every inordiQflte cup is unblessed and the ingre-
dients a devil.”
WEEK 4th WEEK. WEEK 4th WEEK.
No abatement of the Triumphant Success of Herr
Bandmann’s version of D’Ennery s great moral
THE W
or the
HORRORS OF DRINK.
READ THIS “Sydney, August 17,1888.—Dear
Sir,—The play of ‘The Woman of the People
bears, in my opinion, a good moral tone, and may
be witnessed without the least danger of shocking
the feelings of the most prudish or sensitue.
Divested of some of its most extravagant incon-
gruities, the plot might be pronounced excellent,
and, as a clergyman, I can only express my regre
that such perform unces-are the
than the rule.—I am, yours truly, A S
C. of England. P.S.— Herewith I enclose my card.
Universally acknowledged by Press,
Pulpit that this play isdoing as much good as
Philanthropic Societies, Charitable Institutions, oi
the Tempmance Platform. a , fi
Head various letters from Temperance Societies,
Rev. Gentlemen, and Citizens of Sydney,
No friend to Sobriety, no Mother, no Wife, no
Sister, should fall tosee it. I me I ulpit. .
“ Oh, that man should putanenemy mtohismouth
To steal away his brain.” ,
Under the patronage of the combined 1 EMPE-
RANCE SOCIETIES of.New South Wales, repre-
sented by M.W.P.O. Palmer, Esq., M.W.S. 1‘- R*
Holdsworth, Esq.. M.W.T. W. Hanson, Esq. ( G.W. .
Hy. Parr, Esq., G.S.C.T. Pierce, Esq.G.WT.Ui
Fawcett, Esq., G.W.C.T. Hutchinson, Esq., G.W.C.
J. Davies, C.M.G., &c., &c., &c., &c.
Between the acts, Tea, from the famous estab-
lishment of Quong Tart and Co., will be served
to the Ladies. ,
Read what the Rev. Mr. Garnsey said.
Box OlHce at Paling’s and Gaiety Theatre, where
seats can be booked daily.
The Furniture supplied by W. Hamilton and Co.,
Globe Warehouse, Park and Castloreagh streets.
Admission — Orchestra Chairs (reserved), at
Paling’s, 4s ; Stalls, 8s ; Circle, Family Circle, 3s ;
ENLARGED PIT, Is.
To the residents of the surroundings of Sydney.—
The performance at the Gaiety Theatre closes
punctually at 10.20, in time to be home before
midnight. ..... ,
Country people, beware of surreptitious copies,
stolen, of Herr Bandmann’s plays, and performed
by itinerant professional tramps.
E R
HOUSE
Lessee, W. J. Wilson. Sub-Lessee, A. T. Dunning.
Stage Manager, T. B. Appleby.
Treasurer, J. F. Goldsworthy.
THIS EVENING,
Grand Revival, by special desire, of the greatest of
all successes,
MASOLA, MANOLA, MASOLA,
and the
GRAND BALLET OP NATIONS !
which, wherever performed, created a perfect
furore.
In active preparation, Offenbach’s chef-d’ceuvre,
BARBE BLEUB (Blue Beard)
Admission—Dress Circle, Bs.; Stalls, 3s.j Pit, 3s.
Box plan at Hucnerbien s Music Warehouse, 411
Goorgo-street, where seats may be secured for any
date in advance. Day tickets obtained at
Stone’s, tobacconist, next Theatre.
Secretary to A. T. Dunning, A. N. Hallifax.
T
HEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & Musqrove.
TENTH WEEK and continued triumph of
MISS JENNIE LEE,
and
Mr. J. P. BURNETT.
TO-NIGHT, and During the Week,
Mr J. P. Burnett’s Farciful Comedy, in throe acts,
THE GRASSHOPPER, or the CHANCES of the
CA RDS.
Business Manager for Miss Lee, LIDDY.
Y
ICTORIA HALL,
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Lessee
Mr. F. E. HiSCOOKS.
The most Elegant, Fashionable, and Popular
‘lace of Amusement In Australia, well adapted
or any flrst-class entertainments. The Lessee open
o Rent or otherwise. Apply
WM. MARSHALL,
Lorgnette Office, Melbourne.
T
HOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR OF THE
ZULU WAR.
Theatre Royal, Rockhampton, July 9th to 31st.
Bundaberg, Maryborough, and Gympie.
Brisbane to follow, 9th September, with
NEW DIORAMA
OF
EGYPTIAN WAR!
W. H. THOMPSON, Proprietor.
SYL. RYAN, Agent.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
TO LET for the Christmas Holidays, and after.
Terras on application to Thos. Sktright,
care of Elvy and Co., 339 George-street, Sydney ;
or the undersigned,
JAMES B. HICKIE,
Brisbane.
AYALA’i
(*T*A0UAUTY
•WHITUAJQv,
%
ML
V
<l I’m out of form. Can’t keep up to work.
“ Oh, if that’s all, old man, I’ll have you as brisk as a
picket in a jiffy. Here, Walter! large bottle of
L.yAla’8 White Label. This is a wine one can’t get
very whore; and if it doesn t set you up, Frank, III
ive you a new hat.”
MET PHILLIPS S GO.,
AGENTS.
BRIDGE-STREET CHAMBERS.


JpUBLIC HIGH SCHOOL FOR GIRLS, SYDNEY.
Hoad Mistress :
MISS LUCY WHEATLEY WALKER,
Assisted by an efficient staff of Teachers.
The above School will be opened on 1st October
next, in premises situated in Elizabeth-street.
I ce: Two guineas per quarter, payable in ad-
vance. Candidates whose parents are duly certified
to be unable to pay the fee, may be admitted free,
provided they pass the entrance examination.
The entrance examination will bo as follows:—
Reading : To read a passage from some
standard author, pronouncing* every word
distinctly, and giving due emphasis and
modulation to each sentence as a whole.
To have an acquaintance with the mean-
ings of words selected from the passage
read.
Dictation : To write a passage of about four-
teen lines dictated from some standard
author, or an ordinary newspaper, with
correct spelling and punctuation.
Arithmetic : To solve questions in Proportion
V ulgar and Decimal Fractions.
Grammar : To parse the more difficult words
in a passage of about six lines. To dis-
tinguish the true subjects and the true
predicates in sentences. To correct in-
elegant and ungrammaticalo xpressions.
To exemplify the correct usage of picked
words.
I rench : Schneider's First French Course.
Exercises 1 to 00 inclusive.
iwS? am i?.??2 n8 * or tho admission of pupils will be
neld on JOth September next, and the 10th January,
1*84, respectively. The ten Candidates, not over
*? n ,vears of *W e ’ vvho train most marks and
™e necessary proficiency at these examina-
tions, will be awarded Scholarship, entitling them
4? j . , LA/UOial8Uilf| UII11 Li i 11,4 LJ
tviiu 0 ’ uea * OI f J or a year, ana, subject to the
a i inua , favourable reports on their pro-
.......... .a.umauiD reports un meir pro-
ficiency and conduct, for the two following years.
Particulars respecting the teaching staff and
°/- ,nst ructiou will be announced in
future advertisements.
G. MILLER,
a * « Acting* Under-Secretary,
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 9th August, 1883.
jpiJBLIC HIGH SCHOOL FOR BOYS, SYDNEY,
Head Master:
JOSEPH COATES, ESQ., (present Head Master of
Newington College,)
Assisted by an efficient staff of Teachers.
School will be opened on 1st October
next, in piemises situated In Castloreagh-street.
vnnnV l ncaa u PCV garter, payable in ad-
vance. Candidates whose parents are duly certified
to be unable to pay the fee, may be admitted free
pio\ ided they pass the entrance examination. '
The entrance examination will be as follows:—
Reading: To read a passage from some
- - ~ if Ulll i
UHWII1 luflAn 4- ~ j *
tuupuasis and
modulation to each sentence as a whole
lo have an acquaintance with the mean-
J'ead W(Jrds selected from the passage
Dictation ; To write a passage of about four-
teen lines dictated from some standard
™or or an ordinary newspaper, with
correct spelling and punctuation.
A rithmetic : To sol ve questions in Proportion,
' and Decimal Fractions, Interest
and Discount.
Grammar: To parse the more difficult words
m a passage of about six lines. To dis-
tinguish the true subjects and the true
predicates in sentences. To correct in-
elegant and ungrammatical expressions.
Lo exemplify the correct usage of picked
words.
Kttcltd: Book!.,Definitions,etc., Propositions
I to 20 inclusive.
At.gehra : First Pour Rules.
Latin: Smith’s Principia Latina. Part I to
Exercise 15 inclusive.
Examinations for the admission of pupils will be
JjgW ™ next - and the lOtfi January,
1884, respectively, the ten Candidates, not over
Th",, yeara of age ’ who gam most marks and
. , " ./ m vi ugA, tr in / f4‘>nl ill ,.,,
the necessary proficiency at these examina-
tions, will be awarded Scholarships < ""
h education for a year, and, subject* to''the
leacher s annual favourable reports on their pro-
HeieDOy and conduct, for the two following years
lull particulars respecting the teaching staff and
fnin?P Ur f e instruction will be announced in
future advertisements.
G. MILLER,
Acting Under-Secretary.
Department of Public Instruction.
Sydney, 0th August, 1883.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 17th August, 1883.
TENDERS FOR TEMPORARY WOODEN
BUILDING.
RENDERS are Invited ERECTION of a
... ui a
o—r temporary Wooden Building for Public
Scdiool purposes, at Green Valley, near Liverpool.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
i> ei m ,er phtalnedthe office of the Department
‘‘c Instruction, Sydney, and at the Green
Teacher Publ c SchooI > on application to the
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Temporary
A V ?. lley T ? ublie School,” must be
lodged with the Acting Under-Secretary, Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock
a-m., on Wednesday, the 12th September, 1883.
. -t he Minister does not bind himself to
f he Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender, *
G. H. REID.
EVERY Dr. Marston’s New Work
MAN
SHOULD
READ
Describing how sufferers from
Nervous and Physical Debility,
Mental Decay and all disorders
resulting from Excesses, Indis-
cretions or Overwork, are per-
manently Cured
Without Stomach Medicines.
WEAK, NERVOUS, AND IMPOTENT
MEN RESTORED TO
VIGOR, HEALTH & MANHOOD
Consultation with Physician
and Book FREE. Address —
Marston Remedy Co.,
72 ELISABETH ST., SYDNEY
AMERICAN MIXED PAINTS
A. & T. PRINGLE & CO.,
IMPORTERS OF MACHINERY, &c„
U MARKET STREET
(Between York and Clarence Streets, Sydney),
H A B?r^f ived a 8 W ly of .'these celebrated
PAINTS, prepared for immediate use. For
« ’ iixiHicumuj use. i<or
brilliancy of colour and elegance of finish they far
surpass anything that has been offered to the
public. They can be applied by anyone, either on
wood or iron.
Also for sale—Kalsomine, all kinds of Lubricating
and Machinery Oils, Bidwell’s Axle Grease, Arc.
Prices on application.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal, “Grasshopper” Vide p. 1C*
Opera House. “Mahola” ib.
Gaiety Theatre— “Woman of the People”, ib.
Through the rain, through the mud, through the
mire,
Fired with a sense of duty—
A very poor kind of a Are—
We strolled with our mystical lyre
Sot to music of Giro Pinsuti.
A-playing, a-playing a ditty,
Our feelings to drown and smother,
Through the muddy streets of the city,
To the theatres—more’s the pity—
For we haven’t father or mother.
And only one golosh
To keep our feet from the slosh,
For we hurled the kid in the other!
* * * *
\V. G. Carey, Walton, and Macdonald have
bought 12 months’ N.Z. playing rights in “Youth”
and “TheLights o’ London” from George Rignold.
Scenery and properties go to the adventurers, who
will take over the best part of the present company.
Kmily Fit/.coy (Mrs. Slaughter) is promoted to till
Solange Navaro’s place, the latter lady having
other tlsh to fry. But who is to take the position
vacated by His Majesty King George Henry V.?
Well, Frank Cates is the man. Frank will never
hereafter be a.'.le to accuse Fate of withholding
opportunities! It is true he cuts his hair, keeps
unreasonably soner, and has an educated pronun-
ciation of the English language; but he is, as well,
industrious, ambitious, and courageous, and, de-
spite prior disadvantages, likely as not to succeed.
Their tour begins in December.
« « » *
Ah, m on Dieu I how weary weave of heav-
ing about stage disputes. Kyrle Bellow has just
been lined 20s. and costs for slapping Jemmy
M’Mahon’s face. And this was all about a salary
row. To think that a man who. night after night,
stirs the souls of his audience with noble senti-
ment and lofty language, should descend to the
level of a fish-wife and slap the face of a kind and
indulgent agent for the sake of a few paltry shil-
lings or pounds, or whatever they may have been!
It is pathetic, it is pitifu I! Listen Kyrle
When your angry passions rise
Once again,
And you would an agent’s eyes
Blacken then;
Don’t, for it is underbred—
What’s the use ?
Kill him—then you’ll get your head
In a noose,
So instead of being hateful
When you’re wroth,
A kind public will be grateful
To you both.
* * * *
Poor little'Rev. Garnsey, who, with all his
faults, is a gentleman, must curse his luck that
ever he cracked up the “ Woman of the People,”
as the piece par excellence of the period, since it’s
led to his being bracketed along with “Dr. Faw-
cett, Esq.,” J. Davies, C.M.G., et hoc genus omne, as
a patron of the Temperance Drama (by the bye,
the Temperance dram-mer’s wanlty is—when any-
one’s by—raspberry, but at more convenient sea-
sons “hard tack” straight.)
* * * *
Alfred says that “ Poussard, the French
Vjanist, will,” &c. As a matter of fact, Mons.
Poussard doesn’t bang pianos at all. He simply
hauls the caudal appendage of the equine quadru-
ped across the mellifluous intestines of the lodg-
ing-house cat, after the sympathetic style of Wil-
helmj. He is the latter’s equal, so tar as length of
hair goes, but the Teuton takes the cake when it
comes to length of boots.
• * • »
The following scented and crested epistle
was gent in mistake to us
‘Jeebung Hall. To the Manager—(two words
here illegible)
‘deerCur. Our noo rektur Has spoken so
hilely of Your great moril play that i, in
Humanity’s sacrid cause intend to Patron-
ize it. Flees keep preserved sects for two.”
the owner can have the above by calling round in
Per * kerridge,” and removing her boots so as not
to scratch the paint off our door posts.
Here’s another :—
Dear Sir. Before I saw your trooly christ-
yin play I was nearly a ragin, drunken
ioonytic. Now I’m quite so.—Yours trooly
H’ho’ll have another ?
Dear Sur. I have been subject to the most
v*olent parriksissimsof kickin fits since my
birth, and my screeches, an Yells air trooly
most appawlin. Am open for engagement
at so much per fit, or weekly. Reply to
4 Professional Fittist.”
* * * *
At the Opera House, “ Les Manteaux
ton’” hke Grey’s dreamer, pursues its even
s r“° r - . In Knight Aston, even a fresh tenor (a
deal fresher than the other) is the man in
possession. On Friday night a beneficial diversion
b„~f. ®ade (in more senses than one), when Offen-
W . ' Kose of Auvergne” was hitched on to the
ana two acts of the Mantles. In this, Rainsford
j! ” Doredan had something to say. It was Miss
j.'vjdva’s benefit, and the house was as full as a
puouc-house bar on election day. Aston’s “Let
me like a soldier fall ” was received with the sort
of noise that leads one to suppose he’s done some-
thing out of the common. When Ivanova herself
appeared, nothing but the fact of our being-
engaged prevented the fall at her feet from the
gallery of a distinguished-looking young man—a
little bald at the back, and slightly “ bowsed up in
the beak,” perhaps ; but with a true ’art. Oh !
she was—yes, she was nice—and the bouquets were
nice, and the plunder was nice, and the pet it souper
when it was all over, was the nicest of all. [This
looks too much like a criticism of Dr. Neild’s.
Ed. B.] And, now, “ Mahola ” is to go on, and the
“Bluebeard,” and then
* * * *
Maggie Maggie and her own (and our own)
J.C. made £1700 in six nights at the Royal, in
Melbourne. Oh, dear John Stofel! put a little on
our plates! And the Holloways have been doing
“The Lights o’ London” (re-produced) and
“Queen’s Evidence,” and other intellectual
dramas, with (of course, if there be a gallery)
“great applause.” “Hi! Holleraway, come out
agin !” And Emelie Melville is again in Melbourne,
playing at the Opera House; and the “Stray
Leaves ” are in Melbourne, also, playing nowhere ;
and on Tuesday, Clark and Hyman’s did a night at
Parramatta, with what success we know not, but
shall probably hear from the sexton. And—one
more “and”—this is really funny. Mr. G. P.
Carey opens in London with a new play called “ A
Bright Future,” which is to be followed (with G.
P. in the “ star ” part) by “ A Bilious Attack.” Et
pute—VoUA I
* * * *
In writing last week, we hinted that Miss
Ivanova tv as Mrs. A. N. Hallifax. In so doing, wo
attributed to Mr. A. N. Hallifaxahappiness which
he does not enjoy. Miss Ivanova is not married.
The mistake has occasioned annoyance to throe
parties—to Miss Ivanova, to Mr. Hallifax, and to
ourselves. But the two lirst were innocent suffer-
ers, and we greatly regret that we have been,
inadvertently, the cause of their annoyance.
“The Grasshopper” is done, and the
“ Ticket-of-Leave Man ” at the Royal on Saturday.
Jennie Lee as Sam, and Jim Ralnford as Bob
Brierly. Jim gets a million for five nights. This is
what comes of having a nice hotel, and being able
to hold back.
* * * *
“ The Woman of the People,” at the Gaiety,
with John Davies, Esq., C.M.G., in Bandmann’s
box, and the front seats one snow-di-ift of white
chokers, seems to have really caught the religious.
We went there ourselves, the other night, and even
before the curtain rose, the air was faint with tea-
cake-sickly with muffins. The place was crammed;
but not with the ordinary theatre audience. Far
from it. The men were oleagcnious; they had low
foreheads and small eyes; and the Sawbarth was
to be read in every stitch—in every seam—of their
gospel garments. And their feet I Well, we don't
mind telling you that we remonstrated with
Harry Simmons after the first act on account of
the manner in which the blucher’s of the clergy
blocked up the alloways, and he pledged us his
word as a low comedian (which was quite sufficient)
to have printed in various parts of the theatre this
notice:—
AVIS. ;
Members of the clergy of all denomi- :
nations are requested, when visiting this ;
theatre, to leave their feet in the cloak- ;
room. By order,
Herr Bandmann. ;
‘Rip Van Winkle” on Saturday week.
Herr B. when he last shook his hair at us, said that
he was going to give us a new study ot the
Drunken Dutchman. “Who do you think,” we
said, “ is the greatest Hip on earth ?” He then led
us into a very dark corner in Moore-street, and,
smiling a smile that was more terrible even than
Pastor Allen’s frown, said—“Whom do you think?”
We told him. And we escaped alive. Whom, now,
do you think we said? (Answers to the conun-
drum must be delivered at the office the first thing
on Monday morning, or they will not be recog-
nised.) [Very flippant.— Ed. B.]
* * *
Thynne, Harry Flynn, “Marie Wilton,”
and what they call (we don’t know why) the Gaiety
Dramatic Company, are playing “ The Woman of
the People ” at Goulburn ; and according to latest
advices their performance has converted the bell-
man, and gathered the sexton into the fold. The
show is spoken of as “dismal,” but the perform-
ance of Harry Flynn is highly praised—only as an
intelligent critic remarks but we aren’t going to
repeat the remarks of intelligent critics. And,
touching this same soul-reclaiming drama, we have
received—this is funny, too, as all who read last
week s paper will admit—a letter, of which the
following is a portion :—
“ To the Editor of The Bulletin,
“Dear Sir,—I have reason to think that
the poem refered to in the enclosed slip of
paper which I cliped (sic) from last Satur-
day’s Bulletin was written by my Brother
.lames Cavan Dalton, housed occasionally
to have his poems printed in the Maitland
papers, but I have not heard of him for
some years and am very anxious to And
him, and if you can give me any informa-
tion about him or lot me know what part of
the country he writes from, you would do
me a very great favour. I will enclose an
envelope with my address.—Yours respect-
fully, A H .”
We print this letter because it is not unlikely it
may lead to the identification of the lost poet. We
seriously and sincerely hope it will. We often lose
a poet or two, but we never think of enquiring
after them.
* * * *
Fred Millis, who is the King (either his
or Moulton’s making) of Ventriloquists, opens
at the Academy of Music on Saturday night.
Now, we don’t mind telling you that Mr. Fred
Millis is a very clever fellow, and can, like Sloppy,
“do the Police Reports in several voices;” and,
like Ed. Davies (ain’t it lovely, Teddy?) can come,
with equal facility, the dog in the oven and the cat
in the coal-hole. Millis, it seems, is now “ on his
own hook,” and gives, prior to the ventriloquial biz
an entertainment d la Maccahe. Mr. Millis not only
gives his entertainment, but “ one hundred gifts.”
This is the kind of show we like. What with the
Randwick help breaking the box-iron, little Jacky
(a’tat 8) being “ had ” for the billy while on an
aesthetic errand, and anyhow, we shall be there.
We shall be in the front row on the O.P.-side; and,
though it may seem tautological to say so, while
we shall be inside, our—hem I—dray wlll'be outside.
The Approaching Wool Season.—The
advantages of the Sydney market for the shipment
or the sale of wool are gradually being recognised
all over the colonies, and, with the N.S.W. railway
system extended to its limit, the great bulk of the
wool trade of the colonies must graduate to the
great Free-trade port. Last year was one of the
most prosperous seasons for the wool-grower, as
regards the Sydney market, and it is expected
from information to hand that the sales of the
coming season will be largely attended by English
and Continental buyers. The establishment of the
Messageries line of steamers is expected to be the
first grand introduction of our wool direct to the
French market; and there are the additional lines
of the Orient, 1’. and O., and Pacific services, all
Aviih their termini in this port. The wool-ware-
housemen of Sydney, in full anticipation of a big
increase of business, have gone to the expenditure
of near upon £:300,000 providing additional storage
accommodation, so that by degrees the colonial
will present superior advantages over even the
London market. The amount of wool offered last
year in Sydney showed an immense increase in busi-
ness, and the prices were never previously so
satisfactory. One great feature of the Sydney
business is that the bowsprits of the biggest mer-
chantmen or ocean-going steamers almost stretch
into our largest wool warehouses: in other words,
the great wool clip of the colony Is received at
enormous stores on the very brink of the waters
of Port Jackson. A tremendous saving in car-
riage ean thus be effected. Among the stores thus
suitably situated are those of Mr. F. L. Barker, at
the Circular Quay, Sydney. These stores have re-
cently been greatly enlarged, and are now to be
reckoned among the stoutest and most extensive
structures in Sydney. The stores front Macquarie
Place, and are adjacent to the Exchange—the great
mercantile centre of Sydney. A Hood of light is
secured for each floor, and the clip is received in a
covered dray-way, to prevent damage by wet, &c.
It is afterwards carefully sorted and classified, and
displayed for sale in the best possible manner, the
whole work being under the personal supervision
of Mr. Barker himself. The whole business
of insurances, advances, &c., is made by the firm,
and the concern all through is conducted with
promptness and despatch. Pastoral visitors to
the metropolis are invited to inspect the
Arm’s premises at the Circular Quay, and the
business offices at 86 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Mr. John Bridge’s Wool Stores, Sydney.
—Every year fresh efforts are put forward by the
principal wool warehousemen of Sydney to meet
the increased demands of the great staple industry
of the country. And there is not wanting evidence
ot the fact that the wool trade of the Australias is
daily centring in the great Freetrade metropolis of
the colonies. There are now more foreign buyers
m the market than at any previous period, and it
will be surprising to many if the approaching
season does not find an all-round bigger and
more profitable business than was ever pre-
viously recorded. As an instance of the
preparations in Sydney for the approaching
wool season, it may be mentioned that, in ad-
dition to his spacious stores at the Circular
Quay, Mr. John Bridge has now just nearly com-
pleted extensive premises at the great terminus of
the N.S.W\ railway system, namely, at Darling
Harbour, aydney, where, with but one handling,
the clips can be received, displayed for inspection
and sale, and removed to the ships alongside. Mr.
Bridge’s two stores are capable of storing 6000
bales, and are brilliantly lighted so as to give the
best possible display. Mr. Bridge has arranged for
the reception at all stations and wharves in the
colonies of all wool intended for his stores, and
his constituents may depend that every de-
spatch and care will be shown each consignment.
It may here be mentioned as pointing to the de-
velopment of a new great industry in our midst,
that Mr. Bridge’s stores at the Circular Quay are
now mainly taken up with the storage of colonial
sugar. In this line, Mr. Bridge has secured by far
the largest trade ot any produce house in the
metropolis. As many as 6000 tons of sugar are
from time to time stored in Mr. Bridge’s Circular
Quay warehouse.
A PROBLEM OF THE SPRING SEASON
Last Year’s Hat—Will it do?
A TRUST.
“ Hi! What are you throwing this rubbish into my yard, for? ”
“ Well, you see, I’m removing, and won’t be here to look after ’em any more, so I
thought ”
“ Well, of all the impud . Confound! ” (explodes.)


PEPPER AND SALT.
It is only the brave deserve th e fair. Yet
the other day an immaculate gentleman in the
Registrar-General's office, being called on “ in the
Queen’s name ” to assist a constable in conveying
a lady, who rather asserted than concealed a pair
of “ barber’s poles,” to the lock-up, got his straw-
coloured kids “busted,” his celluloid collar man-
gled, quite a harp scratched over his patents, his
watch-chain broken (and what was worse, the
latch-key on the end exposed): however he may
deserve, the fair hasn’t “ caught on ” much in that
direction up to the time of our going to press.
When he appeared at the office next morning, with
the impression of five teeth in his right wrist, a
bulbous nose, and an excoriated eyebrow, the
head of his department listened to his story with a
cynical expression that savoured strongly of in-
credulity. He said, however, that no notice
would be taken, on this occasion, of Mr. Clutter-
buck’s extraordinary appearance, and still more
extraordinary story. The police, upon the matter
are “ reticent,” but from what we gather, appear
inclined to afford Mr. C. only a minimum amount
of glory. Said the constable at the time of the
arrest—“ I’ll push her at the back, just you haul
on in frent. In the Queen s name.” By this plea-
sant little arrangement, Clutterbuck, as will be
seen, came in for all the blows, kicks, and scratches,
while the constable’s position was comparatively
secure. The loyalty of this journal has been long
recognised ; but we cannot but think that the law
at present in force of compelling any citizen (even
though, he might be a Congregational plate-
humper) of, under a penalty, assisting in the arrest
of inebriated ladies of giddy propensities opens
up a question of jurisprudential reform of no in-
considerable magnitude. We do not speak of our
humble selves. If called upon, even in the name
of Colonel H.R.H. Prince Leopold, we would ren-
der ourselves conspicuous in rendering assistance
to the authorities. That would be only proper.
But supposing, at the time, a citizen, as dis-
tinguished, say, as John Lucas, or Sir Wigram
Allen passed by, and was impressed into
the police service to handcuff a harridan
or bind a burglar, what a dreadful thing
that would bel This might equally happen to Sir
James Martin (and not unlikely, either, for he
doesn’t look a bit like a Judge off the bench), or to
Sir Alfred Stephen, or even—this is a wide stretch,
though—Henniker Heaton. Of course, Henniker
—who has the pluck of a paladin—would be but
little incommoded; but it would be a weird and
awful sight to see Sir James getting “ landed ” on
his judicial “kisser” by struggling “Balmorals,”
and for a set of pearly teeth to chew his honour-
able ear. Assistance, “in the Queen’s name,” is all
very well; but, doubtless, distinction should be
made in the persons who are called upon. As—to
their disgrace and degradation—the common herd
don’t care a “continental” for the Queen’s name,
and would suffer any penalty rather than assist a
policeman to effect the capture of a blackbeetle,
it occurs to us that instructions should be given
that no person higher in social grade than a J.P., a
C.M.G., or a Government clerk, should be called
upon to assist in dragging inebriated nymphs to
the lock-up.
♦ * *
HOW IT’S DONE.
Taking the air,
Carriage and pair,
Horses so sleek,
Carriage unique.
O, how in thunder do they do it—now then, tell us,
Born rich and bred ?
Rich uncle dead ?
Secret there’s none,
Here’s how it’s done;
By fusU-oUing whisky and adulterating rum!
* * ♦
It is with feelings of joy, bordering upon
delirium, that we learn Major-General H.R.H. the
Duke of Connaught is to be advanced to the post
of Commander-in-Chief of Bombay. This promo-
tion of His Royal Highness is only, after the
manner in which he distinguished himself in the
Egyptian war, to have been expected. Everybody
has his enemies—even a Royal Duke ; and that
may account for the fact that in a drawing of the gal-
lant Major-General riding at the head of his Brigade
at Kassassin, the crowd were galloping the wrong
way. Now that Prince Arthur is provided for,
the point is—what is going to be done for Prince
Leopold ? H.R.H., though unsuccessful in obtain-
ing the Governor-Generalship of Canada, has many
qualifications to recommend him for recognition in
the profession of arms. The Prince is of _a gentle
disposition, and an invalid. Well, Hannibal was of
“a gentle disposition,” and with the exception of
that intrepid Field-Marshal, Albert Edward, all our
Felds are more or less cripples. As uneasy as the
head that wears a crown is the Duke of Cambridge
outside a charger, being a martyr to rheumatic gout
while the others are merely mummies that are
Lieutenant-Governors of the Tower, etc., and
which rarely appear in public unless armed
against Death by respirators and comforters, and
being drawn in Bath chairs at a crawl through the
parks. Under these circumstances, we cannot see
why the Duke of Albany (always a favourite with
us) should not be wheeled to the imminent deadly
breach in a perambulator, and bombard the
enemy with a pop-gun. If there be anything we
dislike, It is favouritism, and we are certainly of
the opinion that Prince Leopold should be given a
show for his baptism of fire at the earliest oppor-
tunity. At his bapteme de feu the poor little Prince
Imperial picked up a bullet, and that feat was
telegraphed all over the world. We couldn’t
expect H.R.H. the Duke of Albany to go this far
on the road to glory at first, of course; but it
would be a matter of satisfaction to the Briton
who will never never, to learn that the Colonel in
question consented to sit within cannon-sound of
an engagement, with a bottle of cod-liver oil in
one hand and a hymn-book in the other.
BRIEF MENTION.
Hint to Gabranny -.—Substitute for “ Our
Berlin letter,” “Our Berlin Wool Letter.”
The Rum speaks of theNoozm’s “sooty and
ineffectual extinguisher.” We yearn to hear what
the Nooze has in store, by way of critical rejoinder
upon the Rum’s greasy and impotent snuffers.
The remarkable ingenuity of the Rum is
nowhere more clearly recognisable than in the
pleasant substitution of “ Registrars of Domestic
Occurrences” for “Registrars of Births, Deaths,
and Marriages.”
When Dr. Simms was, some time ago,
orating about the virtues of Australians, he forgot
to mention one virtue they possess in an eminent
degree. We mean patience. They have never yet
killed a lecturer.
Amongst the dancers at the Mayor’s ball
was (we quote Gaeranny) “ Mrs. Professor Smith.”
O Garbanny, dear, for goodness sake, do drop that
odious style. “Mrs. John Smith” would sound
ever so much better.
A NAME.
What’s in a name ? A big heap more
Than Shakespeare guess’d, we bet;
For, is not Martin in his law
A thorough martin-e t ?
A man over in Melbourne got ten mouths
for robbing an undertaker the other day. We
have plenty of men over here—and men in high
Eositlon, too—who ought to have got ten years for
tiving robbed the undertakers. You can guess
what and whom we mean.
The Sydney correspondent of a country
paper says that the Irish informers, “ when they
get a little whisky, are an illiterate set, and very
excitable when primed.” Just like the correspon-
dents to country papers, who are never so Illiterate
as when, etc., and they sit down to write.
In Melbourne, over 135 bakers have been
prosecuted during the last year for selling “ light ”
bread. We wish they would send those bakers to
Sydney. We should go out to meet them in gilded
galleys, with bands playing. Here, a loaf of bread
is often a deadly weapon: you can’t cut it with
anything smaller than a hay-knife.
Down North a J.P. is afflicted with jim-
jams to such an extent that the sergeant went
round the hotels and stopped supplies, being
threatened in turn by the frenzied bibulist that he
will get him sacked. The other day, an inspector,
an editor, and a member of Parliament, were
roused from breakfast by a yelling din, but, on
looking out of the window, “ Oh, it’s only Blank,
the magistrate, in the horrors!” Still a J.P.
I One of the old identities of a Government
department (in N.Z.) was leaving, so friends sub-
scribed for a presentation. An Individual, who
would not cross the road to save a life, unless he
heard money jingle, got hold of the funds, and
bought a chain at a high figure, which turned out
to be brass. The subscribers met together and all
subscribed a tecond time, and bought a really pre-
sentable article. The moral is, when you subscribe
testimonials, see that no one touches the money
who hasn’t clean hands.
Mr. Archibald Campbell, of the Illawarea
Mercury, thinks that the Press and the Bench
should not be connected. There are thirty thousand
journalists who would want to know the reason
why if he had thought otherwise. Hang it, we
want to keep as respectable as we can, anyhow!
And yet, after all, if we judge by recent occur-
rences, might we not say that the Press and the
Bench are brothers—in-law ? Still, we applaud
Mr. Campbell’s refusal to be made a Justice of the
Peace. If he had not refused you can fill in this
gap as you like; but who would have filled the gap
his sudden demise would have made in Illawarra
literature ?
A constable was promoted a few days ago
for having jumped overboard and saved a small
boy who fell into the water while trying to
scramble into the Balmain boat. The act was cer-
tainly brave—but the motive ? We think the con-
stable, in jumping over, was simply actuated by
the well-known feelings of poiicemen with regard
to small boys. That boy had committed a breach
of the regulations, and the vigilant officer deter-
mined to have him, even if he nad to wet his uni-
form for it. See how your heroism vanishes when
it is analysed! And yet we are glad he was pro-
moted, because it is such a rare occurrence for a
man deserving promotion to get it.
Talking about the Goddess of Justice in
West Australia, we may remark that, until a few
\ ears hack, aboriginal prisoners were driven
hundreds of miles in this style to the Supreme
Court sessions, at Perth An iron ring was
fastened round their necks, and a chain passed
from this ring to a email one on the trooper’s
saddle who drove them I If the trooper’s h
bolted, the hangman was, of course savos 0 !? 6
trouble 1 And, by the way. It’s not such a “ his
long time ago that white convicts were otioT ery
there like wild beasts to rings in their prison « ne d
with a bucket of dirty water and a junk of rWk?'??'
bread, just within the bounds of their tethn* dy
left unvisited for days. And for what? PnsLnlV*
because they had, in their own erroneous «T y
attempted to assert their manhood, and tho „ y <
law of self-preservation 1 We’ll have to reat
Western Australia yet. Why don’t the™^ 6
slonarios go and christianise it, Instead of
their dolcefar niente in the South Seas ? aKln S
The relict of Jerry M'Cormick (who
few years ago) thus hymneth in be-hlanked v<T a
the memory of her spouse (of course we are o,? r8e
ing the Evening Tomb) quot-
“ In the cold and silent grave
Lies a husband I deplore ;
A loving father—a neighbour kind,
Dear Lord have mercy on his soul.—Amen."
Now, if she had come to us, we’d have given h
the same sentiment in rhyme for her tnonov H o,.l er
thing d la Halloran y ’ 80m °-
In the cold embrace of the silent tomb
The hubby lies whom I deplore,
The father kind and loving, whom
The little ones will ne’er see more—
The neighbour true, who never came
The tricks of trade (save now and then)—
Lord, if to thee it’s all tho same,
Have mercy on hiss soul.—Amen.
London, besides being the most populous
haunt of the living, is also the most nonnio,, 8
home of the dead in the world. The cemeterip?
there are even more crowded than the courts a nH
alleys. Only the other day a man preferred b
complaint to a London magistrate about beirw
“ crowded out of his grave ” It seems that he hud
bought a bit of ground to lay his bones in when he
died, and his son had jumped it for his family u
is bad enough not to have a place to live in when
one is alive, but it is much worse not to have a
place to be comfortably dead in when one is dead
There seems to be an opening just now for some
mechanical genius to invent a corpse-compressimr
machine to be used in large cities. In life there
are numbers of men too big for their boots, and
even in death it seems there are some who are too
big for their sepulchres. There is a splendid
chance here to be profound, but we won’t take it
We have heard of a good many profound thinkers
but we have not found than any of them were
much profounder than six-feet under the surface
What a man wants to do who desires to
gain honour and fame in a country township is to
make friends with the local editor. If he—the
man who desires honour and fame—is friendly
with the local publican, this can be easily managed.
A gentleman who was recently appointed to the
Commission of the Peace in a Western town evi-
dently knew all about this. This is how his friend,
the eaitor, speaks of him : “ As an honest and just
arbitrator between man and man, he could not be
beaten:” then, further down, deprecatingly, yet
admiringly, “in the Petty Sessions branch he
would not shine, having too much of th< milk of
human kindness in his composition, and apiausible
rogue, who deserved a severe sentence, would, by
telling a pitifnl tale, and promising never to do it
again, get oil with a tenth of his deserts. We have
too many of that sort already; what we want is a
few who will make their names a terror to evil-
doers.” The new Justice of the Peace must feel
some pardonable pride in being accounted a plau-
sible rogue. If we were in his place, we know
what our friend the editor would tcel. But, pro-
bably, he is past feeling, and the journal is editor-
less by this time.
It was under Billy Little’s verandah on the
Hodgkinson, and the conversation was on “saw-
ing.’" Poeta nnscitur. &c., should include “ orator,”
and Billy was a born one. Hyi orbole was Ins
favourite tlgu re. The boys didn’t call it that. They
pieced together some of the particulars container
in the stories he had told from time to time, and
the result was not favourable to William's char-
acter for veracity. But, to resume. The lads made
statements regarding “sawlnv” that were fairly
open to argument; but it wa- merely to draw Hilly
out, and out he came with a “ here we are again,
like the clown in a pantomime. The point in dis-
pute was the superiority of a six or a seven-foot
saw. Billy was sweet on the six-foot, and never
used a longer one on the Barcoo, where his experi-
ence was varied. T en the conversation gradu lly
veered round to the size of logs, when Billy de-
clared he had sawn one 13 feet through. The ques-
tion was asked simultaneously, noisily, and de-
risively, “ How did you rip that up with a six-toot
saw ?” There was a dreadful pause for a mouieni,
and a moment only. “The log was hollow, and
my mate went up the pipe,” said Billy.
He was a “mystic tie ” man, and en route
to Newcastle. Posses ing some, knowledge or
travelling he tucked his continuations (containing
a small fortune in negotiable paper) under ms
pillows, and, having said his prayers, trusted to a
good conscience, and half-a-plnt of spirits, tor a
night’s rest. Nor was he disappointed, his Sleep
was undisturbed, but the events preceding dm
turnlng-in were quite forgotten, and his pantaloons
were nowhere to be found. Going on deck clad
his ulster, the chill morning air found out tne
weak places in his system. On losing his b tn
bravest man is apt to become an arrant cow*' d.
a policeman was sent for, and, all hands P £ e s „ re
fresh search was made in his cabin, and there, s
enough, where he had carefully stowed them on
the previous night, wore the missing articles wi
the money safe in the pockets. He has had mu
enjoyment durng the sixty years , he .,
gummed on to this planet, but he admits that
the joy he experienced would not weigh aga
that supreme moment of bitterness, when he
clutched his recovered clothes, and observed
jeering, unsymphthetic faces around.
A RIVER INCIDENT.
The little puffy, stuffy boat
Was black with passengers,
The black smoke bursting from its throat
Befouled the wand’ring airs—
The wand’ring airs that, soft and bland,
Blew out from little coves,
With perfume of peach-blossom, and
With scent of orange groves.
O, there was many a young man there,
A-making many a book,
And many a maiden blithe and fair,
With many a loving look.
This merry crowd were going to
That pleasant river-reach,
Twixt Byde and Gladesville, there to view
Ned Triokett rowing Beach.
When, lo, a man fell overboard
Right in the middle stream I
Lord, how the f rigfttened children roared -
And how the girls did scream 1
A life-preserver! how they ran;
Such speed you never saw—
They say, sirs, that a drowning man
Will catch e’en at a straw—
That may be—we don’t care a cuss,
But, probably it’s so—
We never have been drowned, and thus
We really do not know.
But this we know for sure that man,
Though life-buoys they flung to him,
Drowned dead as Judas rather than
He’d touch the things they threw him.
It may be they too dirty were,
Maybe his gloves were new ;
But, as he’s dead we do not care
A single cent: do you ?
The fact remains, in river-bed,
’Twixt Gladesville and ’twixt Ryde,
He lies too comfortably dead
To rise to prove we’ve lied.
THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE.
Delicate little darling,
With chubby, cherub face,
With blue eyes bright and bonny,
And ways of baby grace.
All of us simply slaves to
His babyship s commands;
Holding our hearts like playthings
In little dimpled hands.
Delicate little darling,
So Innocent and small;
Without him, life to us, dears,
Would not be life at all.
Devilish little nuisance—
Appetite like a goat—
Caugnt him chewing this morning
Best thing we ever wrote.
Cultivate the Beautiful: The Useful will take care of itself.
JENNY’S DREAM.
Our Jenny lay asleep; one arm,
That would the Illy shame,
Framing her little dark-brown head
In a most lovely frame.
Her little dark-brown head 1—ah, well,
Much sense it might not hold,
But it was dearer far to us
Than all Australia’s gold.
Lips parted—ah, where would you find
Such kissing-lips as these ?
All dainty-red and delicate
As sea-anemones.
A faint, warm flush upon her cheek—
Kose-red on white-rose bloom —
We felt hs 'twere the presence of
An angel in the room.
She seemed to dream; what did she dream ?
She sighed som little sighs;
And in her dream she softly smiled.
Like Love with closed eyes.
So tender was the smile, so sweet —
But seldom she smiles thus—
So dreamily delicious that ,
We knew she dreamt of us.
A golden dream of golden days
With summer-golden hours,
Wherein we two sat heart to heart
Among the passion-flowers-
Sat heart to heart and said no word,
But let the hours go by,
Caring nowise for Time that flies
Or days that dawn to die.
Slowly she woke up from her dream
With look of faint surprise;
A languid lustre, soft as sleep,
Was shining in her eyes.
“ Darling,” we said, “ you’ve dreamt “ I have
I’ve dreamt, Indeed, ah, me!”
She answered.—“What ¥” we asked and smiled—
A winning way have we.
“ I dreamt,” she said, “ that you and one
Of low, ignoble brow—
A clown—were rivals for my hand,
And both your love did vow.
“ I chose ” “You chose us, dearest one!”
We cried out somewhat rash—
“ No, dear,” she said, “ I chose the clown
Became lie held the cash!
THE INFORMER.
If Life is a voyage, as poets say,
The Informer comes as a stowaway,
And like other stowaways goes to prison.
And gets afterwards booted from fore to mizen.
He’s welcomed always on toe-plate terms,
He dies and goes to his brother worms;
And then it he goes to hell, say we.
Hell’s not as select as it used to be.
We cherish the hope though, while we can,
That the devil is still a decent man.
If hell won’t have him, we think, you know,
He’ll be born again as a carrion crow—
In one life fruiting the gallows-tree,
I n the next life eating the fruit you see.
HER STYLE.
Her style looked superb,
She had, ah, such an air!
He stood on the kerb,
And he gazed at her there.
He felt if she would not be his, life would thence-
forth be bitter and bare.
Well, he smiled upon her,
And she smiled upon him,—
It is thus things occur.
On a thread just as slim,
Fate hangs the events that make Life a broad farce
or a comedy grim.
So, crossing the street,
He said:Will you be mine ?”
Her smile it was sweet
As she answered him—“ Thine !—
I will when I come from the Court if you’ll lend
me the ’mount of my fine—
I’m had up for using bad language, and I haven’t
the price of a wine I ’
NOBLE “NOSEY” BOB.
Noble Nosey Bob, the hangman.
He deserves a testimonial ;
fie deserves it, seeing he has .
Worked off many an old Colonial.
All men now get testimonials—
Preachers, teachers, jumpers, luiop® '
Red-nosed saints and paunchy pardons,
Gospel-sharps, and Bible-thumpers.
Why should we exclude the hangman i ,
Why in thunder should you . d
Time may come when you 11 wish j o
Been with him on friendly terms, s •
Let him have a testimonial, ,
Let it take the form of—hum, boys
Say a clock shaped like a gallows,
With a small corpse-pendulum, ooj •
Noble Nosey Bob, the hangman,
Swellest of our swells is he, boys,
Jfor he always stands a top of
Their grim common fam If-


RmirJce—benighted Bourke—is our theme,
.u.-n aQ y one of our readers mad enough to
j g ther •' there to live? If there bo, we will
hia ambition in the bud. Just watch how we
cf“f M d shiver I Here are a few of the leading
do inVa that took place during a week in that
e Ufll of the howling wilderness. A Presbyterian
-ovraan came up to start a church, a groom got
had his head split, a man with a pug
“p and Wellington boots drowned himself, a
n °vfnpan went Into a now hotel and kept open
E a« with free drinks for all comers for a whole
“nina- The local paper, speaking of this, re-
eV0,irs with hilarious naivete : “ This largess an-
hy bellman attracted all the thirsty in
5, oU “?„ and was done due honour to.” We should
®°VJjp ( A few street-shindies and dog-flghts, with
finding of an antediluvian tooth, finished up
th® pvents of a sample week. It seems the owner
Pthia tooth, by the way, has three such teeth in
CL possession. They measure over two inches
n* 8 j yf e believe it is because they are discoloured
w’the finder considers them antediluvian. We
think the discolourment simply tobacco-stain, and
18 proof that the prehistoric mayors
0,1= rke chewed tobacco. We won’t insist upon
lifp 8 i ' 8 ti ry ’ because we haven’t time. But, doesn’t
*ho. _ oourke seem a prolonged spree—a spree
htmng can interrupt ? That is, nothing but
Even redgion, when it arrives there, is
lnto the desperate vortex and assumes
out si , the nature of a Bacchanalia. “ Flush
BvHnf tream of hlood-red wine”—we moan rum
int/v,l en l 18 . an h Jim Hennessy, it almost makes us
“boated to write about Bourke.
f P nj> oaa lly.” sa id a gentleman of inof-
meetv ® ma nners to us, the other day, “ I like to
Thpro’o , raa ' Q with an honestly bad character,
due umi ots . of u8 > y°u know, lots of us, with the
tVMn , ? 1 n Unt badness, but without the honesty.
8l r p-va of yours ” (he took us for
Pllnhov^i 1 u boghlon, having seen us eat four dozen
Gavnn n Si 1 a Friday) “ who said the only fault in
(Hhtn,.nj3iT y was that he had a good character ?”
we were aware of John Mitchell’s
torieal e 2o 8 V anf * our acknowledgment of the his-
iioflir+ht, i- was accepted as a general consent
K the lines.) “ Well (he went on), 1 think that
was a deep blemish on Gavan. He rubbed a good
deal of it off, of course, as he grew older, but 1 am
reminded of his weakness by to-day’s Age. You
have read about the election at Fltzroy. M’Mahon
is slaughtered. The Irishmen fought for him, and
the priests—isn’t every priest an Irishman ? How
does that come?—fought for his municipal return
like an article of faith. Well, the democratic
Journal, which wisdom sells at a penny daily, is
jubilant. M‘Mahon is defeated, and the priests are
defeated. I’m not sorry. But who wrote that
Jubilation Why, the very man voted for M’Mahon.
I saw him eat pilchards, four dozen of them, last
Friday, and we discussed the whole thing. Yours
is a strange country, and so Is your faith. You’ll
find that every leading article written against
Ireland, is written by an Irishman or the son of
one, and every leading article written against
Romanism is written by a Catholic, or the son of
one. Now, this is had. But 1 want yeu to be
honestly bad. p hy do not the writers in the Age
say: ‘We sold our souls for half-a-crownan inch!’ ”
We were silent. Silent and sad, for we knew Irish-
men.
Joseph Hanlon, one of the Informers,
wrote a letter to Detective Mackay. Here are a
few samples of It:—“ I Have no desire to land Hear.
I therefore Wish you to entoseeade on My behalf
to the Government, for the porpose of Having
Me sent quietly from Hear to the Port of Calceta,
or Bock to England. I Wos in the Park Whin the
Murders was comited.” Doesn’t this artless con-
fession of the illiterate innocent make you pity
him? He “wos in the Park”—wheeling a peram-
bulator, or taking his old mother out for an airing,
we suppose. If the “ Murders was comited ” then,
is that his fault ? Bah I It was pure coincidence
that he should have been there at that particular
time. Yet, judging by the venomous way in which
he murders the language of the oppressor, there
seems to be some reason for suspecting him of
having loft the perambulator, or shunted his old
mother for a little while. More of it: —“dective
Simmins, of Dublin, obtained My ticket for Mal-
blrne, and Handed Mo Bank Draft for 60 Pounds.
tb» same nvcrengements Wos Made With Kavan-
agn. He Wos My companion i" Kiliminbrnn .Toil,
—(Signed) Joseph hxnxon. p.b.—Mr. murmu*,
the chief the detectives, told me to take a
ansumud Name.” Seeing that the English
Government were kind enough to furnish Hanlon
with fifty pounds with which to start life afresh,
we are surprised they did not make him a C.M.G.
It was not respect for the colonies which prevented
them from doing so, we are sure, or they would
never have sent him out here at all. Probably it
was an oversight. Our Agent-General might re-
present this to the Imperial Government, and at
the same time he might as well say a good word
for Australia as a nice pleasant home for retired
hangmen We are certainly a young, and conse-
quently a somewhat rude, community, as yet; but
we would try to elevate our social level so that
such visitors should not be ashamed of us. Sir
Saul Samuel might bear this in mind. As for Mr.
Joseph Hanlon, he displays some wisdom in want-
ing to be forwarded to the “ Port of Calceta.” If
he got to India, he might have a chance of com-
mencing a bright and prosperous career, and
attaining to high honours—among the Thugs. The
honours would probably be about as high as the
first branch of a banyan.
The epidemic has reached Herberton (N.
Queensland). The local atmosphere is saturated
with recrimination. It is the old story of social
standing—the story that is to be found in various
phases of development wherever the tongue of
Shakespeare is heard. Between the lucky and
unlucky fossickers there was formerly no distinc-
tion made at a Herberton ball. The man who had
struck 50 per cent, ore did not look down on him
who was prospecting on 5. He knew better. A
day might alter things completely. This was the
golden age of Herberton, but it has passed away,
leaving little but anger for the present and sorrow
for the past. Then, when a ball took place, there
were no fences, real or imaginary, marking the
sectional divisions of the revellers. Mats on a
change tout cdn. As the shafts went down, and
proved the permanency or the lode, the social
change set in. A rush of Civil servants, bankers"
&c., took place, and the age of brass was substi-
tuted for that of gold. To these functionaries it
was simply monstrous that such slight attention
was paid to the conventional barriers of society,
and so the demon of discord has been intro-
duced. There are three social classes now—
the successful miners, consisting of those who,
years ago, discovered good claims and stuck
to them ; the Civil and bank servants; medical
profession, qualified or not; and the unclassiflable
chevaliers whose moans of living are precarious as
Mlcawber’s (derisively termed the snobocracy, or
“ couldn’t-posslbly-think-of-lt” clique), who dress
well, ask twenty out of fifty in a game of billiards,
and chalk their losses on the slate: and, lastly, the
workers. There was a Bachelors’ ball the other
night, but, alas! the spirit o' fun, frolic, and fel-
I lowshlp that characterised these meetings in the
past was conspicuously absent. Admission was by
invitation, and the dances were given out as at
Government House. A lately imported medico
wastheM.C.; housekeepers allowed, if unattended,
but domestics rigidly denied. There was a de-
tlc ency subsequently discovered in the receipts.
The official charged with keeping small boys away
from the door wliile the crime de la crime were en-
joying themselves, offered to “chuckin’’ the 10s.
due to him if he could depend upon receiving an
invitation next time. But the end is not yet. There
is now to be a meeting of “ Bridgets," who argue
(these people have an absurd way of reasoning)
that their standing and character are just as good
as those of the “ Breechloader.” the “ Uale-of-
soft-goods,” or the “ Flying-fox," who, having re-
pented, have changed one rnonde for the other.
The Civil servants now say that bank fellows spoil
everything with their airs. The bank men repudi-
ate the accusation with warmth, and accuse the
C.S.’s with a close approach to caddishness; while
the presiding medico admits, whori to > late, that
“the denv'n of eidujai VOUUsS ilrtUiw> Util cuCgcd
much too high.**
RIGHT ON THE KNUCKLES!


There was a time when the English used
to send the Irish to “ Hell or Connaught.” Now
they send them to hell or Australia,
A “Christian partner with £500 ” is adver-
tised for in the Herald. If the Christian partner
takes our advice, he’ll keep his talons on his cash.
Gladstone says he will not annex the Lord’s
South Sea cocoanut plantation. The missionaries
howl.
John Davies, Esq., C.M.G., is again on his
little pink ear. Beaten by 4 to 1 for re-election to
the directorate of the Colonial Mutual Life Asso-
ciation. We’ll now have our lives insured in that
office.
Seventy years ago it was the religious
custom in Sydney to bury all defunct aldermen in
front of our Town Hall. At least so we infer from
the fact that a coffin dated 1810 has just been un-
earthed there containing a human skull over an
inch thick.
Says a recent Wide Bay News : — “ Whilst
Mr. Bailey, our late M.L.A., was out riding yester-
day, his horse bolted. Mr. Bailey, himself, collided
with a fence, but the latter was not much injured.”
This evidently proves Bailey didn’t hit the fence
with his head ; doesn’t it ?
Here is, verbatim et Utteratlm, the sign of a
Bogantungan (Q.) hostelry :—
LTCINED TO SELE
FREMENTED and
SPIRITSUB8
LICKRS,
Darley says the Government will shortly
have to appoint another Supremo Court Judge.
We trust Government will exercise extreme
caution in the selection. A mistake would be the
very devil. The Irishman whose candles were bad
remarked that, had ho but another, he’d not be
able to see at all; and New South Wales, with re-
gard to existing judicial luminaries, and the bare
possibility of yet another Joe being added thereto,
might almost say the same.
The Rum, which, under Angus Mackay,
had a freethought tendency, is now
profoundly orthodox:—
“ There’s nought so much the spirit calms,
As rum and true religion.”
You can get both in Sydney now for a penny.
Sixty Maltese and their wives are on their
way from London for employment on Queensland
sugar plantations. They are but the advance
guard of an army which will invade us, should the
scouts report favourably. This army threatens to
bring with it from the Isle of the Knights suffi-
cient sacred relics to form a few good-sized saints.
Should it also bring some of the annually-liquefy-
ing blood of St. Januarius, &c., the Queenslanders
will learn how superior is the faith those poor
people possess to the stupid superstitions of the
■Chinese and aborigines in their midst.
Acertain well-known M L.C., of N.Z.,
who lately got into trouble, has always got
deeds of gift ready for signature. He dreads
his relatives having to pay legacy duty
when he dies.
Making the blackfellow work ten
hours a day for a 3d fig of tobacco is what
they call “ God’s first lesson to man,” up at
Cooktown, Q. They seem to have a pretty
poor conception of the Almighty up there.
A sort of co-operative coffin has been
made, into which the bones found in the old
graveyard near the Town Hall have been
packed. This Is well enough from a charit-
able point of view, but what sort of a
corpse will the scientists of the future think
that coffin contained, when it is unearthed V
We think it is mean to confuse posterity in
this fashion.
Ada Campbell the Freethought lec-
turer, seared a number of her audience out
of the hall, when speaking at Newcastle on
Sunday night last. Her sentiments were
too breezy for the public up there. We
don’t believe in female lecturers much more
tli n in female prize-fighters. In the first
place, the majority of female lecturers have
nothing to say, and they get into a rage in
saying it. After all a woman’s proper plat-
form is a stool to keep her feet out of the
wet, when she is at the wash-tub.
A Bareoo man who recently visited
Maryborough (Q.), brought this back to
Blackall:—“ I saw a drunken fellow stagger-
ing up and down a side street, and I made
sure that must be the notorious junior
member for Wide Bay. So, being anxious
to make a close inspect ion of this celebrated
individual--for all of us more or less are
imbued with this description of morbid
curiosity—I stepped over to him and said :
•what constituency do you represent?’
He looked at me with bleared, sorrowful
eyes, and hiccupped slowly: ‘I’m not a
member of the Legislature, sir, I’m only a
private citizen on the drunk.’ ”
Dead of drink! This is the burden of
paragraph after paragraph, in paper after paper
that comes to us from the country. One poor devil
wanders out into the bush and dies in the horrors,
another falls down on an ant-bed in a drunken
stupor. He remains there, because, when he
wakes, he finds there is not enough of him left to
make it worth while to move. Some tumble into
water-holes, and others cut their throats. Strong
Drink, I hough a right merry companion while
their nerves lasted, couldn’t put up with their
gloom when they began to break up, and so handed
them over to his brother, Madness, who is accus-
tomed to such cases. And Madness transferred
them to Death, who is an old friend of Strong
Drink. Hang it—this reads like a temperance
tract. We really believe, if we were to try, that
we might yet become a shining light of the Lodges, t
But whoever jokes about such miserable ends ns
these must have a humour grim enough to do
credit to a vampire. There is practically no
remedy for these deaths by poison— as undoubtedly
they are, in most Instances—except to send inspec-
tors round to the hotels and grog shanties in the
bush, to analyse the liquor sold. Examples should
then be made ef the worst cases. Some of these bush
publicans would,we consider,be dealt with leniently
if they got five years’ hard labou r. They know they
are poisoning the poor deluded devils who come to
them for grog. But they have their eyes on the
spoils. One of their excuses is that if;they were
to sell good liquor, their customers would not
drink it; nothing but brimstone and blazes will
satisfy them. This argument applies equally to
the sale of other poisons. But if a man were to
walk into a chemist’s shop, buy strychnine with
the avowed pin-pose of drinking it, even drink it
on the place in presence of the chemist, what
would such a plea as that the man refused to take
soothing-syrup, but would have strychnine, avail
the chemist when the death of that man was laid
at his door ? The more we think of it, the more
we come to the conclusion that stringent measures
will have to be taken to deal with this evil. If a
publican is proved to have directly and knowingly
caused the death of a man by the quality or quan-
tity of the liquor he supplied him, that publican
should be hanged by the neck till he was dead over
his own door. At which rate there would be few
shanties in the bush without a swinging sign.
The editor of the Cobar paper, in giving; a
paragraph to the local undertaker—lively place.
Cobar—refers to a hearse the latter had shown him
as “ a want long felt in Cobar.” Presumably from
this, previous Cobar corpses were buried in their
boots. The name of the undertake!-, by the way,
is Crow—a very nice name, indeed, for' an under-
taker. it must bo a gay thing to edit a paper up
there, but a gayer thing still to drive the new
hearse. In the issue that contains this mournful
item there is an advertisement about a masked
ball which is to take place in Cobar shortly. The
man who conceived the idea was a genius. It is
almost too clever to have originated in a country
town. You see that the inhabitants of Cobar, like
those of any other country town, are divided into
cliques. There are aristocrats even in a Model
Lodging House—in fact, more there, as a general
thing, than anywhere else—so that there is no rea-
son for surprise In the fact that there is an
aristocracy at Cohar. Then there is a mid-
dle-class, and a lower class, and also a no
class. These divisions are again divided by
private piques and differences between families
and even in families, so that social intercourse is
necessarily limited. Very often it happens that
a man, to preserve his dignity, finds himself, if he
wishes not to forget his mother tongue, under the
necessity of talking to himself. Well, funds were
wanted for the Cobar Hospital. Somebody sug-
gested a ball. Very good; but it was well known that
nobody would care to go if anybody else were there.
Then the genius stepped in and said let it be a
masked hall. The wearing of masks will satisfy
the dignity of the various feudatories, and Monta-
gue can dance with Capulet, and the son of the
Mayor with the daughter of the bellman, and
nobody will say a word. This is mighty ingenious.
But should the masks fall off ? Then, in steps Mr.
Crow, undertaker, with his new hearse, which we
have a strong suspicion was provided for this
occasion.
An abnormally-formed marsupial has been
captured by Messrs. Clarke and Thomas, at Nulla
Nulla, and the Lancefield Mercury asks: “ Is it
thebunyip?” Wo unhesitatingly say “ No.” The
description of the animal *s given by the Mercury,
and it is no more like that of the bunylp than the
humour of the Rum is like that of “Pickwick.”
The bnnyip is not marsupial and is nocturnal.
Although well-known to the natives, there is but
one white man in Australia who has seen it. He is
in our office, and, from the description given by
him of the bnnyip at 3 a.m. last Sunday morning,
we feel confident that the creature discovered by
Messrs. Clarke and Thomas is not the correct
animal.
Mr. C. E. Wiozeil’s Turkish Baths.—Mr.
C. E. Wlgzell, of Oxford-street, again astonishes the
metropolis with his enterprise, this occasion being
in connection with grand new Turkish baths, just
now opened, which are far and away in advance of
anything wo have hitherto been accustomed to in
the colonics. For the last twelve years, Mr. Wig-
zell has certainly held the leading position in the
tonsorial art, &c., his establishment having been
designed and furnished on plans, the result of his
own personal experience, on a recent tour in Eng-
land, the United States, and the Continent. And if
he has been successful in this respect, he has
quite eclipsed himself with regard to his new
Turkish Bath establishment. Mr. Wigzell has re-
cognised the fact that this climate wants, in this
respect, the luxury of the Eastern bath. And,
certainly, with an expenditure of little under
£10,000, he has converted his place in Oxford-street
to the clysium of a stylish Turkish bath. The
moment one enters the portals of the baths, he
finds himself in a new city as it were—everything
of an Eastern aspect, the decorations being in a
style that has never been previously attempted
here; privacy, security, and comfort are alike all
combined. The appointments arc unique, and the
glasswork, under the direction of Mr. Evans, of
Wuverley, is superior to anything of the kind exe-
cuted in connection with our colonial industry.
The bath-rooms are furnished in a costly style
with superior marble slabs, tesselated pavement,
water taps, &c.; then there are lounge-rooms, con-
servatories. and smoking-rooms, all fitted up with
splendid statuary in a very appropriate style.
Perhaps there is only one man in the colonies who
could so thoroughly well have arranged the whole
thing, and that man is C. E. Wigzell. In fact,
no man in a similar line of business has shown
such go. Already the place is extensively patron-
ised; and when the good character of the affair is
thoroughly well known, it is certain Mr. Wigzell
will have nothing to complain of in the way of
public recognition of his enterprise.*
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
That South Australian follower of Wax-
man will escape exposure. His victim says that
“ the Jew is not worth the scandal.” Reviewing
a review is the most unprofitable of occupation.
Carlyle has told us all we wanted to know and a
good deal more of Cromwell. But a writer in the
Imperial Review (a small magazine published in
Melbourne) has a little extra to say. Speaking of
the Protector’s “ Ironsides’,’ he remarks, “ they
were better than Napoleon’s Old Guard, in that
they never were beaten.” This is good,. It would
have been well had he drawn attention to the fact
that they never fought an Austerlitz, ora Borodino
.. “ Meat freezing is one of the great discoveries of
the age.” So says the Auckland Free Lance.
The same cannot be said of “ freezing to meat,”
which was known before Esau and his ragamuffins
loafed around Jacob’s camp looking out for things.
— A Forbes Public School teacher is about to
hold weekly history classes. He doesn’t know the
treat in store for him should his pupils belong to
different creeds. Ho will find it out by and bye.
— Were bankers legally compelled to notify
drawers and acceptors and endorsers, severally, of
bills put in for discount, such little games as those
played by vinegar merchant White, of Melbourne,
would be rendered next door to impossible
Cattle travelling to Eden, N.S.W., should surely bo
allowed to be driven along on the Lord’s Day.
Why, under the circumstances, the drovers are
but imitating the clergy in trying to get their mob
to the golden shoah — The N.Q. sugar Industry is
making startling strides. At Plantation Creek,
Cleveland Bay, 800 acres cane (yield about 3900
tons) will be crushed this season “The Raglan
Crossing Pet,” said to be the biggest alligator yet
caught in the Rockhampton district, measures 19ft
5in At Carrington, Port Stephens, lately the
head quarters of th« Australian Agricultural Co.,
the cells are to bo seen where the prisoners used to
be confined, also the remains of the triangle. The
church, a large well-built stone structure, likely
to last tor hundreds of years, is now used as a sheep
fold. The sheep are driven into it every night
The Police Constable at Montague, (northern S.A.)
wanted to swear an affidavit and could find no
Bible nearer than Pine Creek. Even when found,
it was only a prayer book. When last seen, the
officer was swearing away on neither book
Here is a Herald advertisement :—“Tired think-
ing where you have been to this very long time.
Do you wonder at blacKlooks? Think who I am.”
We know for whom this is intended—our elegiac
poet. Well, ho has been living in a vault, with two
or three other ghosts who write monodies for the
Evening News. They have been working up
materials for a skeleton opera. They don’t wonder
at black looks. They know who you are ; so do
we. You are the bailiff The fifteenth anni-
versary of the enrolment of the Duke of Edinburgn
Highlanders (Sydney) was held the other night at
the Protestant Hall. We have served with the
42nd, 72nd and 73th, so that our knowledge of
Highlanders and their peculiarities is extensive.
They dress well, look well, fight well. But take
private Jock Macpherson from any of those re-
giments, set him down before a company of Aus-
tralian “ Kilties” and hewouldsay “takemeawa.”
Gie me a week’s shot drill, but dinna ask my
opeenion.”.. .Civilization is spreading: Rockhamp-
ton is becoming modest. A man was summoned
u p there the other day, for owing money for a pair
of tr.'users. His defence was that they didn’t fit.
The tailor produced them in court, and challenged
him to try them on. Defendant declined. Perhaps
however, modesty was not his motive “ J. X.
Jones, Esq.—Hon. Thomas W. Frog, Esq.”: this is
how the names of two of the patrons of a Sydney
Assurance Society are printed in an advertise-
ment. The distinction is a fine one. It seems to
imply that there are Esquires who are not honor-
able. Wo daresay. We [T’atwilldo. —Ed.B.]..
For an amateur performance in a suburban school-
house the advertisement ran: Conductoress, Miss
A.; vocaliste, MissB.; pianiste, harpiste, organisto,
etc. etc., Mesdll. C., D., E., etc. They were all E’s,
but few He’s. This is but an insignificant consi-
deration. The important point is the march of
education and “ culchah.” Ellison, a Parramatta
boy, 15, didn’t know the thing was loaded. Old
story — The public think that a very little of the
“ Pish River Caves ” in a goody-goody lecture goes
a long way. The Rev. Mr. Symonds by this time
possibly knows the precise meaning of that preg-
nant junk of the Yankee vernacular—a “frost.”...
The largest planter on the Nicholson River, Glpps-
land (Vic.), last season got from 8hj acres the ex-
traordinary yield of 17,000It. of hops, which he sold
at 3s. 9d. per lb., making a total of £3187 10s.. .Some
Melbourne firms attach invoices to goods crossing
the Murray into N.S. Wales, so that the Customs’
officers need not open them. It works well. Some
packages, invoiced “ paper parcels,” were opened,
the other day. There was £500 worth of jewellery
in them—John Knox (O, shade of the genuine
article!) “froze” on to Archbishop Cranmer’s
works, and offered them for 6d. He was acquitted,
but was sent up for stealing boots.
It appears that Archbishop Vaughan had
been suffering’ for the last five years from fatty
degeneration of the heart. Recently the Arch-
bishop was about to undergo an operation at the
hands of Dr. Harman-Tarrant, and the usual ex-
amination of the heart was made prior to the
administration of chloroform. The examination
proved that the Archbishop was suffering seriously
from the cause referred to. Dr. Tarrant was not
greatly surprised at the news of Dr. Vaughan’s
death.
Mr. Leo Plania announces a series of lec-
tures at the Protestant Hall, commencing on
Friday, 34th August, on the Anglo-Israel identifi-
cation. The ten lost tribes are respectfully invited
to attend.
Nothing purifies and enriches the blood
and destroys all poisons in the system like Hop
Bitters. Read
The Western editors are persecuting that
meek and lowly bush missionary, Peter Campbell,
and insinuating that he’s a back-block land-shark.
Until now, we nave always believed that Peter was
an absolute pauper, who collected only for the
poor, who never had a red cent, in either of the
pockets of his only pair of pants, and ns often as
not shared his frugal crust with the melan-
choly moke on which he worked his passage
round the Never Never. Peter has always,
somehow or other, been presented to our
minds as a long-suffering, rugged, gazelle-eyed
personage who, in the wilderness, alter ated
locusts and wild honey with a Nebuchad-
nezzar-like diet of saltbush and brigalow bark.
But it’s all a delusion. Peter is worldly, and keeps
one eye on the main chance, like all the rest of the
saints. He addresses the editor of the Western
Champion, a profane person by whom he has been
described as a “religious torpedoBlackall,
August 8th, 1883. To the Proprietor, Publisher,
Printer, and Editor of the Western Champion
newspaper, Blackall.—Sir, As I anticipated, your
scurrilous, malicious, and libellous statements and
innuendoes published in the Western Champion
of Friday last, 3rd instant, have resulted so far in
these things, viz.: 1. My character has been
injured; and I have been consequently inter
alia shunned and avoided by many reputable
persons in Blackall ; and, moreover, been
publicly and privately Insulted. All this has
been directly owing to your malicious libels afore-
said. 3. My sale of property, although weli-
at rendod, on Saturday, 4th instant, was a failure.
Persons who would have become buyers, had they
not been prejudiced by said libels, remained as if
dumb at the sale, and would not bid for any of the
lots. The only two allotments actually sold by
auction brought (in consequence of said malicious
libels) ridiculously small and unremunerative
prices. Through your dastardly and mean conduct
m publishing said libels, I consider I lost £200 at
the sale alone. 3. You have by said libels injured
me as a man and as a gentleman, as well as a pro-
fessional preacher of the gospel and lecturer: and
you have crippled my usefulness and influence,
and injured my feelings by your gross falsehoods
and malicious libels. 1 re-demand an apology and
retraction of of your gross falsehoods and libels;
and in addition demand pecuniary compensation
in consequence of the said Illegal and cowardly
libels of yours having injured and destroyed my
sale of property, and ruined and blasted my
character, and professional aims, hopes, and aspi-
rations. I reserve to myself the right under any
circumstances to take civil or criminal proceedings
against you as I may be advised to Jo. —Yours
obediently, Peter Campbell.”
On Tuesday, Messrs. Mills and Pile opened
their new auction rooms, which are handsome.
Fizz was spilt: Mr. Gorman proposed prosperity to
the firm, and Mr. Mills responded. Large number
of business men strolled in, and Mr. Dan O’Connor
presented Mr. Mills with a little silver hammer,
which was submitted to its baptism of fire the
same day, when bidders fought a fierce battle over
the celebrated Redman estate.
They say that at a place between
Pooncarrie and Menindie, the ghost of a
Chinaman is to be seen every night. Per-
haps so; we don’t care, because we never
killed a Chinaman—in that part of the
country, anyhow. But it there is a ghost, it
certainly must be the ghost of a Chinaman.
No other ghost would haunt such a place.
When a Christian has a chance to die a
natural death, then he grasps it, and is too
glad to get away to ever want to come back.
One of the arguments offered against
Sunday closing by the Licensed Victuallers’
Association is that it would “ lead to secret
drinking.” Now, this is what we like. We like
to see the advocates of universal drunken-
ness falling back upon moral reasons. They
give a tone to the argument which makes it
look almost respectable. Still, the difference
between secret and public drinking seems
to us simply the difference between a man
getting drunk in private, and making a
public exhibition of himself. But then we
are not publicans. It we were publicans,
we would observe at once, that whereas one
man may drink half a bottle of whisky in
private, he may induce halt a dozen others
to drink a similar quantity if they meet in
a bar. So that clearly, from the moral point
of view, it is better to have the hotels open
on Sundays.
Figures from “Social Wreckage”
(article in July number of the Contem-
porary Review) add fresh proof, if more
were needed, of the truth of the underlying
idea of George’s “ Progress and Poverty” :
—“ In the wealthiest city in the world 1 in
every 31 is a pauper ; last year 101 persons
died from actual starvation in sight of full
stocked shops. There are extensive districts
in London, Liverpool and all our large
towns, where our people are living in little
more than half the area of ground required
for a corpse, and which they amid claim if
they were dead. In Liverpool alone there
are some 10,000 or more children who are
neither properly fed, clothed nor housed.”
Dan. O’Connor has abandoned the Minis-
try. So has Tooth, the brewer. The desolation of
the Ministry must, therefore, be held to extend
from Dan to Beer-sheba.
They have been holding meetings over in
Victoria with regard to establishing a national
system of irrigation. Indeed!
Now, how does this concern the nation ?
We don’t speak thus because we’re doubters—
What need of schemes for irrigation,
Have they, who’ve got so many “ spouters.”
The Gospel prophecy about the sword being
turned into a ploughshare is as near being fulfilled
in our own generation as it ever seems likely to
be. The Boers of the Transvaal intend, when they
have conquered all the tribes around them, to hire
the natives as farm labourers. It takes Dutch
blood to conceive so cool a thing as this.
Trickett and Beach are matched to row
still another race over the champion course—this
time for £300. Mr. N. Lockyer acts as stakeholder
and umpire, and Monday next is the appointed day.
How it would simplify matters to wager the £300
on the state of the weather on the 37th !
A few weeks ago the wife of Brother James
Paterson, of the Great Northern Band of Hope,
presented him with a small pledge of her affection;
and this so tickled Brother James that he adver-
tised it in all the local papers as making the fifth
total life-abstainer” in the family. But, in spite of
all, the young 'un has to be bottle-fed. And he so
young 1
On Monday, Mr, Edward Ross Fairfax,
one of the proprietors of the S.M. Herald, ap-
peared at the Supreme Court, before their Honors
Sir James Martin, C.J., Mr. Justice Faucett, and
Mr. Justice Windeyer, to answer a charge of
alleged contempt, in publishing certain articles in
theHERALD, and its avant courier, the Echo. Mr.
James Reading Fairfax, the co-proprietor, is in
Europe. A long affidavit from Mr. E. R. Fairfax
was read by Mr. Pilcher. It covered the whole
ground of accusation. On its conclusion, the Chief
Justice remarked: “There is no expression of re-
gret there whatever. On the contrary, the whole
thing is justified. We will deliver judgment on
this matter this day week, and we shall require
Mr, Fairfax to attend on that day.” Humph !
Bradlaugh’s supporters have decided that
the House of Commons committed treason in re-
jecting him. The resolution is to be laid on the
table of the “ House”—alongside the mace—where
it will receive every attention The Auck-
land Free Lance admires Carey a good
deal more than it admires Parnell, Red-
mond or Justin M’Carthy. Of the latter and
their followers it truly remarks. “ Violence, out-
rage and bloodshed are their watchwords, the
patriotism of such men being a reproach to any
nation.” We guarantee the man who wrote this
never heard of an Orange lodge.
ONLY A FACE.
Over across the roadway
From the house where we write this scrawl,
There stands a Government office
Full of clerks and clerkliugs small.
We watch them come in the morning
With their frugal lunch in their hands;
We watch them hanging their coats up,
And putting their gamps in stands.
Very well-meaning fellows,
One and all of them are, no doubt;
Very well-meaning fellows
If their meaning could bo found out.
Only a face at the window,
’Tis a clerk stands behind the glass;
Only a face like a fish-crate—
Only the face of an ass.
THE MODERN HYMEN.
He is not dressed in purple vest,
With torch in hand and flaming;
His face is fair but shows no joy,
Or nothing worth the naming.
For since he lost his brother Love-
Dead long and long ago, dears—
He never laughs but smileth still
A smile as cold as snow, dears.
It was a wedding at St Mark’s,
A wedding grand and gay, dears,
White favours fair and orange flowers,
Upon a sunny day, dears.
Love was not there, for Lore is dead,
And Hymen’s torch burnt dimly—
His feeble phantom of a torch—
And lit the bridal grimly.
If it was not for Love they wed.
Of course it was for gold, then ?—
The bride in fashionable way
Was simply bought and sold, then ?
Not so, for both wore rich. What, then ?—
Now, here you’ll have the shivers—
They wed because their tastes agreed—
Both had disordered livers!
EXCITING ADVENTURES OF A MOUSE.


Electioneering 1 Notices.
U £ (i L £ B E ELECTION.
Fellow-Electors of the Glebe,—Gentlemen : It
has been stated that your present Parliamentary
representative, Sir G. Wigram Allen, is about to
resign his seat in the Legislative Assembly, and I
understand that a requisition is in course of signa-
ture, before the public announcement of the fact,
inviting a gentleman to fill the vacancy. Under
these circumstances, I feel justified in informing
you that, should our member place his resignation
in the hands of the Speaker, it is my intention to
offer myself as a candidate for your suffrages.
Gentlemen, I am proud to be able to claim the
personal friendship of many of you, and the ac-
quaintance of many more. There are probably
few throughout the whole of this electorate to
whom I am quite unknown. For considerably
over a quarter of a century I have been en-
gaged in business, and have taken an active part—
at times a very active part—in public life. I feel
pride in saying that it was in this electorate, 33
years ago, that I began my commercial career ;
and I am now, and have been for some time, a
resident of the Glebe electorate. There are few
movements in Sydney or the suburbs calculated to
Improve the position of the people, or aid in the
general social welfare, in which I have not taken
part. These are personal—some may consider
egotistical—remarks ; but they are, I think, justi-
fiable on the part of anyone introducing himself
to his fellow-electors fas a claimant for their suf-
frages. For you have the right to know all that
can be known of the man on whom you would
confer the high honour and the sacx-ed trust of
representing you in the first and greatest Assembly
of this colony. And so, whatever my qualifi-
cations, whatever my faults, I at least have lived
for years in the eye of the public, and it is npon
my conduct as a public man that I rest any claims
I may have to your support and interest in the
present struggle.
With these few remarks, I will px-oceed to state
my views upon several of the chief questions of
public interest, and likely to be dealt with in the
coming session of parliament. I need now do so
only briefly, because, previous to the day of
election, I shall have many opportunities of meet-
ing you and mere fully stating my views on public
affairs.
One of the most important matters the Legisla-
ture will have to deal with is the amendment of
the existing Land Laws. A now Land Act is a
necessity. It will require careful thought and
anxious deliberation. Before tho last session
closed it was felt that further information was
needed on many points in connection with this
question, before Parliament could arrive at a
proper decision or could be in a position to frame
a bill which would cure the evils complained of and
give satisfaction to the country. It would be un-
wise, it would be unfair, it would be impolitic for
me or anyone else to attempt to discuss what that
should be. Therefore, all I will say at this moment
upon this great question, is that I fully appreciate
its importance, that I will give it my most careful
attention’ if returned as your member, and that I
will assist the present or any Government is pass-
ing a Land Act which will best conduce to the
settlement of a prosperous yeomani’y population
on our present waste lands and also give greater
security to Grown lessees and secure the contribu-
tion of a larger amount to the general revenue.
Next in importance to the Land Bill, and as some
may think of at least equal importance, is a Local
Government Bill. A long experience in Municipal
matters has convinced me greater powers of local
government are desirable, that munielpalities
generally have shown their fitness to exercise such
powers, and that many matters now dealt with by
the Government would be managed more effi-
ciently, economically, and beneficially by the local
authorities. I should therefore be a warm sup-
porter of the Local Government Bill.
I am of opinion that the Land Titles Act requires
amendment, so as to facilitate and cheapen the
transfer of real propexty. The object of Torrens’
Act was to facilitate transactions in Real Property,
but at times unnecessary impediments are thrown
in the way, and great delay is often caused. The
costs, too, in connection with the transfer of pro-
perty are much greater than they ought to be; for
instance, every time a house or piece of land worth
a thousand pounds is bought five pounds goes in
stamp duty, and so on in proportion. This I regard
as excessive, and it has often been a subject of
complaint to me. I would support a rednction, if
not the total abolition of the Stamp Duties Act.
As to the Licensing Act, notwithstanding the
most recent alteration in it, I am of opinion that it
is by no means a perfect or satisfactory measure.
Some of its clauses press harshly on both publicans
and the public.
I think the time has arrived when the Transit
Commissioners should be abolished ; and if you
honour me by electing me as your representative,
I would—unless some one more fitted for the task
undertook it—introduce a measure for that pur-
pose. The Commissioners are an irresponsible
body; and their duties more properly belong to
the local Municipal Council, who, I am sure, would
discharge them moi'e efficiently and satisfactory.
The question of bridges is most important. It is
very desix-able that Johnston’s Bay should be
bridged over, so as to connect the Glebe with Bal-
main ; and this matter should engage my serious
attention, if elected as your representative. A new
bridge is imperatively needed over Darling Har-
bour ; the Pyrmont Bridge being in a disgraceful
and, I fear, a really dangerous state. I would pro-
pose that a high level or suspension bridge (to be
determined of course by the Government en-
gineers) should be constructed from the high rocks
xn Sussex-street, which are nearly on a level with
Kent-street, to the rocks on the Pyrmont side on
the land lately resumed by Government, suffici-
ently high to allow shipping to pass under without
impeding traffic, and thus do away with the pre-
sent rotten structure. This would greatly relieve
the present enormous traffic in Market and Sussex
streets, and as the bridge would be free prove a
great boon to the Glebe electorate and the public
generally.
Electioneering Notices.
The Government having resolved to get rid of
the abattoirs—a determination which should be
supported in every way—it becomes very desirable
that the waters of Johnston’s and Black Wattle
Bays should be thoroughly cleansed, which can
only be accomplished by dredging the whole of
the decayed animal and vogitable matter which at
present exists, and which so seriously affects the
health of many residents of the neighbouring
localities, by accomplishment of which, in a very
short time, the inhabitants will bo enabled to en-
joy the luxury of a salt water bath.
The establishment of a National Bank was
advocated by me years ago, and I think recent
facts have shown its importance. Cheap money is
essential to our prosperity. Of course the price of
money, as of all commodities, fluctuates ; which
when searee, dear; when plentiful, cheap. But what
have we seen during the past year? Money in
England, and Indeed almost all over the world, has
been cheap ; but here In Australia, notwithstand-
ing the soundness and goodness and perfect safety
of our seerrrities, it has been possible to borrow
money at enormous rates of interest only, and
sometimes hardly to borrow it at all. Now, the
effect of having a National Bank would help
greatly to remedy this evil, and to reduce the
colonial rate of interest to the home rate, and to
facilitate boiTOwing for the purpose of legitimate
trade.
Public attention is now being aroused in the
strongest manner to the law of libel and so-called
contempt of Court. A licentious press would be
one of the greatest evils that could afflict any
community; but a press that is fettered and sub-
servient might be a greater calamity still. Depend
upon it—take history as your guide—a free press
Electioneering' Notices.
less than imparting an indelible stamp to its
national character. There can be no disput-
ing that the stamp which the character of
this colony boars is that of steadiness and
solidity. To the handful of men who did
this bountiful service at a critical time
the country must ever be indebted. The
low ebb to which affairs in this colony had
reached about five and twenty years ago
encouraged a band of malcontents to battle
for an exclusive trade policy, which,
while benefiting a few, would have isolated
the whole people from the world’s great
centres of production. Inactivity on the
part of people favourable to a free and com-
prehensive policy lent colour and assistance
to the movements of the exclusionists, and
when they came to be opposed they were
found to be as formidable and compact as
they were aggressive. The battle once be-
gun was a real one. It was earnest and
enduring. It was fought not in Sydney but
all over the colony. Its grandest feature
was the indisputable completeness and per-
manency of its results. Free-trade was en-
grafted into the minds of the people, and, as
in England, is as likely to lie given up as
trial by jury. Very many do not know that
this contest was ever fought. But t welve or
fifteen years before Protection was adopted
in Victoria as the panacea for all fiscal diffi-
culties, it was discarded here as a delusion,
and once and for ever the policy of the
country received a sha ring that has since
brought it into the premier position, and
given it tc-day a man-sided development
that elsewhere is not known. Among the
men who did this valiant service years
ago were Rev. Dr. Bang, Sir John Robertson,
Hon. G. Thornton, Hon. H. Prince, Hon, S.
D. Gordon, Hon. John Sutherland, Hon.
James Byrnes, W. Hezlett, E. Lowther, J.
Booth, A. Cain, W. Dean, J. Powell, J.
Electioneering Notices.
have been of a progressive character. During
a period of great depression, he aided his
father in very difficult financial operations. In
the milling and the produce business, Mr.
Pritchard was years ahead of his time with
respect to the character of his appliances and
the capabilities of his establishments. He
broke down numerous rings and monopolies
in trade. Ten or twelve years ago Mr. Prit-
chard launched out into the laud sale busi-
ness ; and we believe he will be credited with
being the pioneer .of the movement which
has resulted in the sub-division and sale by
auction on the ground of the enormous es-
tates round about Sydney, which has re-
sulted in the investment of something like
ten or eleven millions of money in a legiti-
mate direction, which has created thousands
of freeholds, where, previously, there was
but one, and which has populated our
suburbs to an extent that could never have
been anticipated. Mr. Pritchard was first
gazetted a magistrate in the year 18(57, with-
out solicitation, among a bunch of ten or
fifteen of the best men that were ever ap-
pointed; and he was elected an alderman
for the city in the same year, and continued
one till he accomplished some important
work, when lie resigned the position, as also
that of a magistrate, to enable him to attend
to liis own private affairs. He was the
originator and the life and soul of Hie
Wrecks Relief Commission, which gave some
thousands of pounds to the wiuows and
orphans and otuer sufferers by the disastrous
wrecks of the Cawarra period. Mr, Prit-
chard is in active business still. He has built
up a competency by ihe business he has
conducted during the last ten years. He has
some active opponents. They are, fortu-
nately, the men whose opposition is the test
of value, liberality, uprightness, and enter-
prise. Mr. Pritchard was, about four years
ago, when fortune favoured him, again
gazetted a magistrate, and he was also
unanimously elected Mayor of Leichhardt.
and a free people go together. We look to the
press for a faithful record of public utterances,
for intelligent and just comment on public men,
for honest criticism, and for the courageous ex-
posure of abuses. But you will look in vain for
all these things, which as free men we so greatly
value, if you punish it for the discharge of its
highest and clearest duties, or expose it to the risk
of damages, as it is now exposed, under what I
think is generally regarded as an iniquitous libel
law.
I am opposed to all sectarian or class legislation,
and would take as my motto what was formerly
the motto of the Sydney Morning Herald:
“ Swort to no master, of no sect am I.”
Gentlemen, as I am looking to early opportuni-
ties of meeting you in public, when I shall be able
to treat these and other matters in detail, I will
only say in conclusion that, should you do me the
honour to elect me as your representative in Par-
liament, no effort shall be spared on my part to
efficiently discharge all the duties of the office;
and that I will exert myself to the utmost for the
benefit of this important electorate and the pro-
gress of the whole colony.
WM. PRITCHARD.
North Annandale,
August 14,1883.
Mr. William Pritchard.
[From The Bulletin of March 18th, 1882.]
Whenever an inquiry comes to be made as
to the construction of the splendid basis on
which the trade of New South Wales was
permanently fixed, there will be a meed of
praise to the unostentatious services of
William Pritchard. Giving a basis to the
trade, or fiscal policy, of a young country
like New South Wales, with its enormous
rapid development, means no more and no
Woods, J. A. Portus, D. Fletcher, George
King, W. Spears. Samuel Bennett, Julian E.
Salomons, George Oakes, John Pope, S. A.
Joseph, Saul Samuel, Ben. James, Anthony
Hordern, William Hanson, John Harpur, A.
H. Macafee, W. Friend, John Ireland, Samuel
Dickinson, William Court, Frederick Par-
sons, and John Fyffe. One of the most per-
sistent of workers in that active organization
was William Pritchard. To him entirely
was due the success of the national protest in
the form of petitions against the Protection-
ist policy of the Martin Government. What
the ten or fifteen thousand petitioners de-
manded from Earl Belmore was an imme-
diate dissolution of Parliament, and, though
it was denied them, they had the satisfaction
of seeing, shortly after, that Government
dissolved, and their retrogressive policy
completely overshadowed by one in keeping
with the enlightenment of the times, and
the intelligent aspirations of the people.
Samuel Bennett, of the Empire, was one of
the quiet, but grand workers of the lime,
and to his sagacity and Mr. Pritchard’s
activity and devotion, may be, to a consider-
able extent, ascribed the success of the
whole movement. This work, occupying so
much time and eneigy, told on Mr. Prit-
chard’s private business, but he continued
with the others till the work was done.
Mr. Pritchard’s private history is that of
most of our reliable and prosperous colonists.
The varied experiences of forty years’ active
business pursuits leave him to-day with an
unsullied character for integrity, reliability,
and enterprise; and he enjoys to-day the
friendships he made when he ffrst started in
life. Mr. Pritchard was born in Gloucester-
shire, on the 18th February, 1880, and came
to this colony with his people nine years
later. Mr. Pritchard is a self-made man,
and evidently believes in the old adage, that
“God helps those who help themselves,” and
the whole of his efforts in business enterprise,
as well as in matters social and political,
The Glebe Election.
Fellow Electors,— The coolest insult
ever offered a constituency is that which
we the Glebe electors have had to
suffer in connection with the coming
election. The usual practice in the case of
an intended resignation of a member is a
simple announcement to the electors to that
effect, but in the case of Sir George Wigram
Allen it has taken the form ol an impu-
dent attempt to first secure the seat for
a pliant nominee, by a house - to - house
canvass of the electorate. Many hun-
dreds of people were in blissful ignor-
ance of Sir George’s retirement from public
life till they were solicited to pledge them-
selves to Mr. Michael Chapman. In the
usual course of events, the resignation of the
present member could not be accepted till
the House met, nor could a writ for a fresh
election be issued, so that Sir George Wig-
ram Allen’s party were, by this new dodge
in election compaigning, getting a start of
more than a mouth. Several parties of
canvassers were set to systematically can-
vass the whole electorate, representing to
each elector that it was the express desire of
Sir George Allen that Mr. Michael Chapman
alone should succeed him as representative
of the Glebe. And these canvassers so ex-
tolled the virtues of Mr. Chapman, that
many took him for a new individual alto-
gether. The only true statement they made
right through was that he was a tit successor
of the late member. The canvass pro-
ceeded very well among the friends of
Sir George, but was promptly and
indignantly resented by the great body of
independent electors. The general complaint
was that the electorate ha t been subjected
to a double insult—first, by Sir George Allen
remaining silent as to his intentions; and,
secondly, by a nominee being foisted on to
them. Hence the activity over the election.
The little game was exposed when every-
thing was thought to lie safe. And Mr.
Michael Chapman finds himself from under
the wing of his pation. and forced into the
Held for a lair fight. As to the result of a
fair light, which Mr. Chapman scorns to
have desired to avoid, nobody has so much
to fear. Michael Chapman’s public career
has been a splendid failure. The great effort
of his life lias been, apparently, not to do
anything great or useful, but to save him-
self from being shovelled into oblivion. Mr.
Chapman lias had a seat in the Municipal
Council of Sydney during the last ten or
fifteen years—a period of unparalleled bung-
ling and jobbery. He has resisted in Hue style
every movement for municipal reform ; and
for about ten years he was on the box-seat —so
to speak—of the Sydney Omnibus Company,
which resisted every effort to improve the
passenger traffic of Sydney. The fact of Mr.
Chapman being a Transit Commissioner for
ten years, and now coming before a con-
stituency for election to Parliament is a
painful indication of bis fitness for some
place else. Why should not Mr. Chapman’s
splendid talents—which allowed the citizens
to get sand for cement and rubbish for stone
—be transferred from the Town Hall to the
Legislative Assembly ? In the sunset of his
bungling, now’s the time tor Mr. Chapman
to lie “ riz up ” to greatness. The greatness,
however, wnioh best suits that gentleman is
—oblivion. As to tlio nomination of Mr.
Daly in opposition to Mr. Chapman, the
individuals interested must fancy that the
Glebe electors arc easily gulled. Mr. Daly
is not even a formidable mosquito in the
contest —and his £40 will go to the revenue.
This is the only public service he can do in
the Glebe contest. Another nomination is
that of Mr. O’Sullivan, of the Pair Play
League. Mr. O’Sullivan is safe—his political
friends are contributing towards his ex-
penses. It is too much to expect a man to
lose the £40 himself. The truth is the con-
test is between Mr. Michael Chapman and
Mr. William Pritchard. It’s as well to recol-
lect public services. Mr. Pritchard lias done
good work in the interests of the community
and has always shown liberal and advanced
ideas. AgainstMr. Chapman’s iucompeteucy,
for public duties are set the downright real
successful etlorts of Mr. Pritchard in the
great Free-trade movement of sixteen years
ago. and against Mr. Chapman’s abject
grovelling to Sir George Allen’s patronage,
there is Mr. Pritchard’s independence and
thorough straigbtgoing. Fellew-electors of
the Glebe, you will do yourselves justice, and
save the reputation of our borough, if you ret
sent at the ballot-box the impudent atterap-
which has been made to foist on to you the
nominee of an incompetent.
A GLEBE MAN.
MR. WILLIAM PRITCHARD.


315 George Street.
A few of our undertaking’s MOST SUCCESS
FULLY carried out, among which will be found
the LARGEST, MOST DIFFICULT, and MOST
RESPONSIBLE events that have taken place since
the opening of this establishment.
His Worship the MAYOR’S PICNIC, for 430, at
Clontarf.
Mis Worship the MAYOR’S BALL, for 1600, Exhi-
bition Building, at which his Worship, John
Harris, entertained their R.H.’s PRINCES AL-
BERT and GEORGE, EARL CLAN WILLIAM,
and the Officers of the Detached Squadron.
MASONIC BALL. English Constitution, for 1353,
Exhibition Building.
MASONIC BALL, N.S.W. Constitution, at Town
Hall, Sydney.
Visit of their tt.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Lithgow Valley Mines and Zigzag.
Dinner a la Ruase, for SO, in Government Palace
Dining Car while travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000 SCHOOL CHIL-
DREN— re Queen’s Statue Demonstration—under
VERY SHORT NOTICE, only receiving the
order at 2.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot at 13.30
p.ra. the following day.
Visit of THEIR R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT arm
GEORGE to Captain Cook’s Landing, south side
of Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon and refresh
ment, for 100, under VERY SHORT NOTICE, r©-
ceiving order at 9.30 ».m., to be ready on the spot
at 1 p.m. following day.
The LADY MAYORESS’ RECEPTIONS, Town
Hall.
The UNION CLUB BACHELOR’S BALL, at Ex nl-
bltlon Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE WINDBYER.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE INNES.
Dinner A la Rwwe at St. Paul’s College, for 150 Mem-
bers of the CBURCH OF ENGLAND SYNOD.
Dinner d la Rutse. to the INTERCOLONIAL R] F 1 K
TEAMS, Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at HAWKB8
BURY RACES, In Grand Stand.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at RAND-
WICK RACES, in Grand Stand.
The CONSULAR DINNER, in our new Banquet
Room.
ARMIDALE RAILWAY Demonstrations. Bap
quet for 400; MAYOR’S BALL, 600, same evening
and CITIZEN’S BALL, 500, the following ev»i>-
Ing.
ALBURY-WODONGA RAILWAY DEMONSTRA-
TION—Grand Government Banquet for 1016
at Albury. Grand Ball, *00, following night.
Children’s feast, 1184, the following afternoon
and evening. Also, Breakfasts, Dinners, Teas,
and Suppers, in Government Dining Car, to
His Bxcelt.kncy Lord Augustus Loftus, the
Ministry, and Ms.P., while travelling to and
from Banquet, &c., &c.
Numerous Banquets and Entertainments by HIS
WORSHIP THE MAYOR at Town Hall, &c.’
Numerous Dinners i la Rmae In the N.S.U
GOVERNMENT PALACE DINING CAR, whia
travelling by rail, on account of the GOVERN
MENT.
Together with a numerous lot ef Private Dinners
Feasts, Weddings, Garden Parties, Balls. Tei
Meetings Land Sales, Suppers, Picnics, Fish lot
Excursions, &c.
CADET EXAMINATION, SURVEY OFFICE
TT is hereby notified that an Examination of
I Candidates for Employment as Cadets in the
Department of the Surveyor-General will be held
early in N vember next. The exact date, when
fixed, will be duly notified. Candidates must have
attained the age of 16 years, or they will not be
eligible for examination.
Intending competitors can obtain further in-
formation upon applying by letter to the Surveyor-
General, or perse*tally to the Secretary and
Cashier.
(S.gned) P. F. ADAMS,
Surveyor-General.
Surveyor-General’s Office,
Sydney, 23nd June, 1883.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
t-eT 308 GEORGE STREET.
WHOLESALE
G ROGER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD S
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
VI A G E N B I T-
TER8.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION
m~ MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
smoke a decent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
with a moderate price.
1
HEYDE, TOOMAN & CO.,
YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
W. H. PALING,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Pianofortes,
Pianofortes,
Pianofortes.
By the following renowned English, French, and
German Makers: —
Brard
Pleyel
Collard & Collard
Broadwood & Sons
Kirkman
Soufleto
Trost & Co.
Lipp & Sohn
Aucher
Ronisch
Hundt & Sohn
Bluthner
Steinway
Schledmayer
Challen & Son
Ecke
Elcke
Paling & Co.
A. Bord
Berden & Co.
Herz
Schwechten
Schwander
Forster
And numerous other Manufacturers.
ORGANS by Bell & Co., Palace Organ Company
Waters & Co., Peloubebt, and others.
Bell & Co’s. Celebrated Organs, besides other
Awards, gained First and Special Prize over all
others at the recent Sydney Exhibition.
HARMONIUMS by Alexander & Co., etc.
A Splendid Stock of MUSIC always on hand.
PALING & CO.’S PIANOS have taken SEVERAL
PRIZES at the LATE AUSTRALIAN INTER?
NATIONAL EXHIBITIONS.
W. H. PALING,
Pianoforte, Organ & Harmonium Galleries,
356 GEORGE STREET.
M-MlNc
Harves
tin
AgHlRERv
CHAMPION
/ K
engines
AND
mr..: ;
FLSUr
MILLS
FLEMING'S Carriage and Machinery Repobitobt
32 and 33 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MonLrars
FRUIT
LITER COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON’S
HiLTT I ILLS. We tneaa cured, Hot merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and no
lisappoiutments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
ill BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
'learty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
simulate tl.u LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOoD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit),
they are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
S«l«l Everywhere, Price Is. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PIUS
%
HEAD STOUT.—This favourite brand
of Stout selected with great care from the
uesi ot the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
CATTWi*CO?.*^8 0 5°4 e e n P u? OUred eyer ** hot9 '
m
COMFORTABLE TEETH
The use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are tbioe kinus, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the Yellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to peisons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
Sums, decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
rops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never sutler again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound an J white to the end. That
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitations ,
ee that each Label bea/rs the name, “ Wilcox and
Co., 339 Oxfwd-street, London .”
DE
ASTHMA,GOUGH, BRONCHITIS
One of those Cigarettes gives immediate relief in
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis,
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them invaluable, as they instantly check the
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
see that each box bears the name of “ WO cor aiul
I'o.. 239 Oxfords!reel, London."
FfTIIK HIGH SCHOOL, HOBART, TASMANIA.
1 Hector: The Rev. R. 1). Poulett-Harris, M.A.,
Trinity College, Cambridge. Headmaster; Mr. Ed.
Edmondson, Christ church, Oxford. The salubrity
of the Tasmanian climate, combined with the high
standard maintained by the Council of Education,
has brought the collegia I e ad vantages of the colony
prominently under the ice of Australian
parents. The High School occupies the head place
in the degree lists. 1 1 surpasses all colonial educa-
tional establishments in the healt hiness and beauty
of its situation, which is upon a slope bordering
the Queen’s Domain, and in the vicinity of the
Cricket Ground and Saltwater Baths. The T.SN
Co. issue return tickets to scholars at single fares.
Prospectus and terms may tie obtained from 'It.
JAMES E. Cl S’ \ I \'( I H A VI, 13(1 Eh/abeth-street.
Sydney, or from (tic Rector
tar- THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY'
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capitai., £100,000.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT
on fixed deposits for 13 months: FI VB PER CE.\ ,.
md UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE P'v(
’ENT. on sums from £1 to £30 in the Savin rs B ink
(ranch. Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Para-at.
I. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
Emil Paterson,
VRUHITECT AND CIVIL ENGINEER,
No. 4 PITT STREET.
[
y
aunt under cover.free fry...
dole Agent, Box 73u Q.P.O., Sydney, N.S W
MOUSTACHE AND WHISKERS.
Boyds Heard Elixir did this. and will do It
on elthar. bald head or bare face. Forces
heavy Moustache ip froth 2 to 4 weeks and
never (ails. -O.uoo yoking men already wear
full beard, having used I, to 3 pkt's. No
Injury, eaaily applied, certain in effect.
Packets Is. hd* each’,3for*3a:6di, post paid,
observation. Address,Fiiank Douglas,
ARITFICTAL TEETH on Gold. Vu'canite, &c.,
blade on the litest American principles;
easy tit. defying detection. MARSHALL BROS.,
Surgeon Deads s, I0(i Market-street, ne.’r Hyde
Park All dental operations performed with skill
Painless extractions. Teeth stopped. Charges
strictly moderate.
w • T II ( > II n \ \ K E I. L ,
SH I KT T\l I,MRS, HOSIERS, & MERCERS,
2D8 Oeorg'e Street. Sydney.
Established 1844.
Our CELB BRA TED WHITE SHIRTS, ready made
30s., 40s., 50s., 60s. the half-dozen.
O
t-H
H
<
C
o
a
s
o
o
u
<
%
DINNER,
ONE SHILLING.
%
*
V
cr.
c
£
W
M £
> %
H 0
fC
PITT STREET,
NEXT TATTERSALL’S.
All Meals One shilling
J. C. GREENFIELD, Phopriktob.
%
UIDELSOrS HOTEL,
THE FAVOURITE HOTEL IN GOULBUKN,
W. Howard Smith and Sons,
STRUTH’S WHARF and NEW WHARF
(Foot of King Street).
Office* : 42 KING STREET.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Brisbane to Port Mackay and Townsville
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
Bunlnyong .. 3000
Barrabool .. 1000
♦Burwah .. 1000
Cheviot .. 1500
Derwent .. 500
Edina .. .. 400
♦Gabo 3000
♦ To arrive.
Geelong .. .. 500
Kellawarra .. 900
Konoowarra .. 1500
Leura 1500
Moreton .. .. 600
Rodondo .. .. 1200
You Yangs .. .. TOO
W. HOWARD SMITH and SONS,
42 King Street, Sydney.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED I860. 7
INCORPORATED by ACT of PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £127,500
OlHECTORS *
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Calrd, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors;
Jas, Scroggie, Esq. | Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq.
Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches:
Haymarket. Pyrmont, Redfern, Glralambone,
Gosford, Nyngan, and Bourke.
London Bankers;
The National Provincial Rank of England
London Office: 158 Leadenhall-street
Director: Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent: G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms
Hills discounted daily.
Rills negotiated and advances made against Wool
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
Bad Legs, Constitutional
Diseases, &c.
MEDICATED VAPOUR BATHS.
For those diseases where noxious drugs adminis-
tered through the stomach impair the constitution
oi the unhappy recipient, and in many cases fall to
cure,
facts are stubborn things.
H. W. COOPER eradicates the most inveterate
cases of disease, without medicine internally, in
less than a sixth of the time required for success
by any other treatment.
Re'ief from Rheumatic Pains.
To Mr. Cooper,-1 can scarcely find words to
thank you lor the remarkable cine vou have
effected In ray case. I have suffered with bad legs
tor over 10 years ; I have tried many doctors, and
taken everything advertised to cure, but I grew
worn and sick of trying. My age is over 60, I arn
very stout, and, keepings shop, am compelled to
walk about. My friends advised me to g to you
1 IP'* wish I had gone at first—I should not hav e
suffered so loug. and it would have been pounds in
tuy pocket. My legs are both healed up, and I am
quite well. If anyone doubts the genuineness of
\ our treatment, let them come to me, or any of
my friends who knew how I suffered. I may add
I i nproved fast from the first day I visited you.
a a .., Mrs Black,
August 4th, 1883. 317 Eilzabeth-streot.
To Mr. Cooper.—I wish to make known the bene-
fit ot your treatment in my case. I had bad legs
tor two years, and could get no relief anywhere ;
you cured them in less than a month.
R. T. Eastway (Eastway Brothers),
George-street.
H. W. C. has voluntary testimony that would flil
a newspaper, and he has not been in the colony
twelvemonths.
11-10 (’HOW \ STREET, opposite Reservoir.
32 COLLEGE STREET, HYDE PARK. SYDNEY,
.■ ABTIFIOAL TEETH on the tuostapproved Eng-
lish Principles, Fitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastica-
tion, Natural Appearance, and Com fort guaranteed
Stopping. Sealing, and Extractions skilfully
ner formed
THE “GUNDAGAI HERALD,” Pastoral
Gazette and Farmers’ Chronicle, with which
is incorporated the “Temora Herald and Mining
Journal, will be published in Gundagai on or
before 1st September next, conducted on the most
hberal principles, in the Interests of the Squatters,
farmers, and Miners of that most Important dis-
trict. As the “ Herald ” will start with a large
amount of patronage, it will offer to advertisers
every facility lor spreading far and wide their
business notices. The “ Herald ” will freely circu-
late through the districts of Jugiong. Adelong,
Cootamundra, Bethungra, Murrumburran,
Muttama, Coolac, &c., &c. The “ Gundagai Herald”
will be published every Wednesday and Saturday.
W. H. L. BAILEY,
Proprietor.
ROBERT BUTCHER S CO.
(Late William Long),
tar* WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL. SYDNEY.
Country Orders receive prompt attention.


Some wholesale soft-goods houses enter
perfumed spirits as “drapery” at the Custom-
house, and so escape payment of twelve shillings
per gallon duty, when discovered, It is “ a mis-
take on the clerk’s part,” and the Arm gets its
(roods. In the “good old days,” before the new
definitions wore accepted, this used to be called
smuggling, and the goods were forfeited.
The pictures in the N.S.W. Art tlallery
have been re-arranged, and can now be seen to
much greater advantage than heretofore. But
one still greater improvement has been made. The
name of Sir Henry Parkes has neon entirely re-
moved from those exhibits where formerly It was
so lavishly and fulsomely displayed. Stuart’s turn,
we suppose. Oh, ye flunkeys I
First of all Cetewayo determined to show
there was life in the oil boy yet; so sallying out
on his return to Zululand, he completely routed
his enemies, and came home covered with fat and
glory. Then Usibepu came along, and after cutting
Cetewayo’s troops to pieces he stuffed the old fel-
low with plaster of Paris, garlic, rum and onions,
and then roasted him whole, and gave a monster
picnic. Soon after this the truthful cable again
woke up and declared Cetewayo had disagreed
with his coloured friend, Mr. Usibepu, and after a
lively scrimmage had got away with Usi’s head and
stuck it up on a pole to scare the crows with.
Now, however, we learn Usibepu has once more
defeated Cetewayo, and we’ve got so tangled up
that wc can’t exactly toll whether the pair are up
to their ears in a crimson war, or merely working
the “ gates ” at a go-as-you-please or a boat race.
The champion liars of the dav arc the cable corres-
pondents of the Australasian daily press, who,
having pretty well lied themselves into their
graves about the Irish, are now devoting some
attention to this brace of blackfellows.
Mr. DECouRcr Bfownb (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General band
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 126 Pitt-street, Sydney
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Departments undertaken. Titles a
special ity.—A dvt,
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUNl).
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs. Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief:
a small bottle often cures. Ask for “Arnold’s’ 1
and got it; spurious imitations are sometimes
offered. * .
Nowhere perhaps has the dentist’s art obtained
such high excellence as in Sydney. Certainly we
are In no sense behind any other city. Visitors to
Sydney might, to test this, visit the establishment
or Messrs. Adolphe Gabriel and Company, 18 Wyn-
yard Square, two doors from Pfahlert’s Hotel
Here the manufacture of every essential in the
Srofession is carried on. At the rear of the surgery
i a compact little factory where all the requisites
for supplying every dental defect in the human
mouth are made. Messrs. Gabriel and Co. (whose
only address is as above) are always pleased to
show their specimens of artificial teeth to those
interested. There being two firms of the same
name in the Square, patients will oblige by paying
particular attention to the Christian name, Adolphe,
and the number, 18, twe doors from Pfahlert’s
Motel.— Advt.
T3iU BLIC NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 482 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE.
Ob. TWO DOORS NORTH OF OLD SHOP
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall he ffiud to have this index pasted up by
n secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general .]
RACING.
Hawkesbury R.C August 33, 35.
Cootamundra k August 30.
* t r Soring September 1, 4, 6, 8.
J.C. September 13,14.
UbertGold Fields J.C September 19, 30.
vlirthem J.C September 19, 31.
RflUaratT. and H.C September 31, 33.
m.bbo J.C September 31, 32.
Snulburn T.C September 30. 38.
Wnrrabri J C October 3, 4.
Sy Turf Club October 6.
Victoria Amateur T.C October 13, 30.
Wollongong T.C October 17,18.
Victoria R.C. Spring November 3,6,8.10.
Canterbury (N.Z.) J.C November 6, 7. 8.
Parramatta J.C November 9.
riarence River J.C. (Amateur) November 9.
Murrumbidgee T.C November 31, 33, 33.
Narandera J.C . .November 39, 30.
Liverpool J. C December 23.
ovdney T.C January 36.
Tasmanian R.C. (Summer) February 13,14,15.
AQUATICS
\t R C. Annual Regatta September 39.
ivdney Amateur Canvas Dingy Club (Formal
s> Opening Season) September.
rre en (S.A.) v. Wood (Vic.), at Melbourne..Sept. 29
mpw South Wales Association Regatta . .October 6.
nouble Bay Regatta October —.
svdnev Amateur Canvas Dingy Club 1st Class
3 Race October 13.
Balmain Regatta November 9.
Krug Champagne Cup November —.
COURSING
Ballarat Club August 28.
Australian Club August 39.
ATHLETICS.
T Malone v. J. Aplltt, 150yds.. Botany Sept. 5.
B Murphy v. W. Franks, mile walk. ..September 6.
Wallsend Athletic Club Meeting November ».
FOOTBALL.
Sydney v. Brisbane Clubs, at Brisbane. .August 23.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
■Bed of Stone won the N.Z. Waterloo Cup.
Azalea runner-up.
An appropriate vehicle for backers of horses
to travel in—a break.
The Bike has reached even the Sandwich
Islands. Edward Cant, an old Auckland bicyclist,
recently took first prize, £85, at a bicycle race at
Honolulu.
ffm, Slowgrove’s bird Cherrywood flew
from Picton to Sydney—53 miles —in 56 minutes, and
won the Poultry Pigeon and Canary Society’s Gold
Medal for all-comers race.
Dave Green, the best sculler South Australia
can produce, has been matched to row T. Wood, the
stroke of the celebrated Footscray (Vic.) Bight,
over the Lower Yarra champion course on the 89th
Sept, for £50 a side.
J. Stedraan has offered a Junior Cricket
Challenge Cup for next season, and the manage-
ment of the affair has been placed in the hands of
the father of junior cricket, F. Ironside, who thinks
of starting the first match early in September.
Up North, recently, a man made a wager
that he could run fifty yards in less time than a
man could drink a pint of stringy. The greatest
“boozer” in tho place was brought in to perform
on the ale, but the fellow got over his fifty yards
first. The liquor had been made boiling hot.
We understand the Carlotta and Victor are
both in the market. These 34-footers are as much
faster than the rest of their class as Grand Flaneur
and Progress were speedier than the horses of their
year. It is needless to say that the owner of the
Victor has the “ Progress ” of the pair.
Two Melbourne featherweights, Jack King
and Con Murphy, recently fought with soft gloves
under Queensberry rules, at Newton and Nathan’s
rooms, for a tenner aside. King out-fought his
opponent from the start, and at the conclusion of
the fourth round Murphy cried “go.”
They have a Derby even in Persia. A lot
of men enter their horses, and deposit their en-
trance fees with the Shah. The race is then run,
after which the Shah takes possession of the win-
ner, and sticks to all the entrance money. There
is a business-like simplicity about sport in Persia
which speaks for itself.
The N. S.' Wales footballers are doing re-
markably well in Queensland. In the match against
“ Queensland ” the banana-men won by 13 points
to 11. The contest with the Wallaroo Club resulted
in a victory for the visitors by 33 points to nil; and
in the match against the Brisbane Club the Sydney
men scored a win by 4 points to 3.
It has been decided by the committee of
the Victoria Club that all bets made on Matador
for the V.R.C. Grand National Hurdle Race before
Thursday, the 19th July, will have to be paid, but
that bets made after Wednesday, the 18th, are
void. The decision was arrived at because the
owner had an opportunity of amending the entry
up to Wednesday night.
Lacrosse is an exciting game. When the
Indians and Canadians were playing at Leicester,
Eng., one of the Canadians dropped his lacrosse
tools and took to his fists. He came down heavily
on the nose of “ Plying Wind,” and tapped claret.
Notwithstanding that “Flying Wind’’ had the
wind taken out of his sails in this manner, the
Redskins won by four to three.
A three-mile skating contest for a trophy,
between two amateurs, took place at Botany on
Saturday. Hackett led for a mile, when he fell,
and M'Laughlin got 50 yards ahead. Hackett re-
gained some score of yards, when he fell again,
and M’Laughlin won by the difference. Neither
man was in good form, and both were rather
pumped at the finish, notwithstanding that the
race was a comparatively slow one; time, about
16min. 37soc.
At a town up North the funny man of the
district offered to wager a soft-looking new arrival
£50 to £5 that he could not perform the old trick of
sitting on a bottle with his legs extended and light
a candle in one hand from a lighted candle in the
other. The soft one planked his money, and suc-
cessfully performed before a crowded audience on
a squ ire schnapps bottle. The funny man cannot
deny the money was won on the square.
Certain bookmakers, who were in the same
steamer with Archibald Forbes when he went up
to the Grafton races, got mad with him because he
said he would not sit at the same table with them.
We hardly think they had much cause to be mad—
at least, not very mad. You see, Archie is a High-
landman, and Highlandman is only another name
for trencherman ; and a trencherman invariably
likes a table to himself. That’s all—that and other
things less creditable to the great war corre-
spondent.
That lato football match between Carlton
and Geelong Is leaving a fuliginous trail behind it.
The constituents of any match require to be accu-
rately proportioned; but, in the case of the match
which the public were recently Invited to inspect,
the constituents seemed to be slapped together
anyhow and everyhow. The sulphur was all
clotted at one point, and the saltpetre at another.
And the glue was so spilled about that one man’s
hands stuck to a stick, and, unless you pulled his
arms out, you couldn’t pull the stick out. The
sulphur swore at the saltpetre, and the saltpetre at
the sulphur, and visitors could see that the kicking
of the leather was only a figurative exhibition of
how Geelong loved Carlton. Gee long, Geelong!
A professional bicyclist, named Chapman,
recently challenged to ride any man in Australia
any distance from one to ten miles. Messrs. Lee
and Bennett foolishly answered him and offered to
race on the conditions that “ no prize whatever be
competed for; that n» advertisement bo inserted
in any paper whatever; that only three friends of
each competitor be present besides the time-
keeper.” Chapman has written to the Dally
Telegraph stating that he considers the above
conditions absurd. But he forgot to mention that
he was a professional, which puts a totally differ-
ent light on the matter. Messrs. Lee and Bennett,
however, surely cannot be aware how close they
were sailing to the wind when they offered to race
a professional, even for “ love.”
The Vic. Amateur Turf Club had showery
weather on Saturday last for their Winter Steeple-
chase meeting. The favourite, Bonne Fortune,
won the sapling Stakes, Falkirk 3, Jackdaw 3.
Avalanche made an easy win of the Hurdle Race, a
dozen lengths from Songster, Lottie 3. Victor and
Rhesus came to grief. Clansman secured the
V.A.T.C. Challenge Cup, Recovery 3, Marquis 3.
Adsum < ame down a cropper. Cesar beat Halifax
by a nose for tho Selling Race, Little King 3. The
Caulfield Grand National Steeplechase fell to
Euchre, half-a-dozen lengths away from Lizette,
Gold-top 3. Magician and General Jackson fell:
and the last race on the card—the Balaclava Stakes
—was appropriated by Allaader, Ironhand 3,
Tumult 3.
A fencing match with foils took place at
the Athemeum, Melbourne, on August 15, between
Miller and Victor, for £50 aside, Miller giving 10
points out of 21. From the outset it was evident
the Frenchman would be Victor in name only.
Miller scored the first point, Victor the next two,
Miller took a like number, and the Frenchman got
one. After this. Miller scored half-a-dozen right
off. They then took three alternately, Miller fol-
lowing up with a couple more. Victor now scored
his last point, after which the “ Professor ” put in
seven points in succession, and won the match by
21 to 17. Victor took his “gruel” very badly, and
when his opponent tendered the usual salutation
at the termination of the bout, threw down his
gloves in a pet, amidst the hooting of the audience.
A noted American sporting man named
George W. Rand one day saw a horse lying by the
roadside apparently dead, but on examining the
animal found both its forelegs had been broken by
a railway train. He had the horse taken home, and
in a few months it was able to walk. The animal
improved very fast, and in seven months Rand’s
son Harry, a lad of 12 years, drove him a mile in |
3 min. 23 sec. The horse was then called Harry
Rand. It was kept in the Rand stable for five years,
and after making a record of 3.19i was sold for £900.
Poor Harry was recently run over by a car which
broke both hind legs, but he is progressing favour-
ably; so that he is probably the only horse who
has had all his legs broken and lived. This is a “ tall”
story.
On Saturday evening last, at one of
Sydney’s bang-up hostelries, a couple of out-and-
out “ mashers,” one a new arrival in the colony,
had a little difference, and after a deal of “ barney-
ing” it was decided to settle the affair with
nature’s weapons on the following morning. The
back of Randwiok Racecourse was picked on as
the convincing ground, and an early Randwiok
tram conveyed a select few to the scene of action.
Both contestants stripped to the buff, and from the
start it was evident heavy business was meant.
The new arrival was quickest with his hands, and
got all the best of the fighting for a couple of
rounds, but lack of condition began to tell its tale.
The local man, after that, walked round him
like a cooper round a cask, and at the conclusion
of the ninth round the newly-arrived one cried a
go. Both men were heavily punished.
The aquatic jumble has beeu a trifle more
mixed by Beach's defeat of Trickett on Saturday
last, in their match over the champion course. As
a matter of fact, the race depended more on the
weather than the men, for had it blown hard
Trickett must have won, as Beach is completely
out of his element in anything like rough water.
But the Dapto man’s star was in the ascendant,
and the race started in a light puffy westerly, only
sufficient to raise a small lump where it m<at the
flood tide. The race needs little description. The
water suited Beach, and he le i the ex-champion
from the start to the judge’s boat, which he passed
with some lengths’ lead, ln23min. 53isec. Trickett,
who has been training and racing since he was a
lad, is evidently a man of the past, and will have
to give way to youth and dash, which must be
served. A sporting man seldom lasts much over
thirty years of age; and, although Laycock may
be urged as an exception, it must not be lost sight
of that the “ Shark Islander ” commenced rowing
at an age when a great many men leave off.
There is one little incident in the life of
Jem Belcher, the well-known old-time English
pugilist, who reigned between sixty and seventy
years ago, which does not appear in “ Boxiana.”
After a prize fight had come off a good many miles
from London, a purse was subscribed to be fought
for, and the “ Yeokel ” champion of the place put
in an appearance for it. Jem Belcher, whose ex-
chequer at the time was rather low, was on the
look out for a bit of business, showed up in dis-
guise, and was pitted against the countryman.
Jem found his opponent a big, powerful fellow,
who could fight a little, and although he com-
menced rushing tactics at once, Belcher was afraid
to stop him too effectually, for fear of being
bowled out. After a couple of rounds, however,
he was cooling him down gradually, when, for-
f etting himself, he began to play a tattoo on the
rontisplece of the countryman, and a fellow, who
had seen Jem fight one of his battles, roared out,
“ Why, dang it, that be Jem Belcher, from Lunnon
—he’ll kill un. In less than a twinkling, the infu-
riated countrymen broke in the ring, swearing
vengeance on the man who had made such a spec-
tacle of their champion. Jem had to run for bare
life, leaving clothes and stakes behind him, and
very glad to clear out at the price.
“A great deal of dissatisfaction has been
c aused in sporting circles (says the Argus) on ac-
count of the revelations made in connection with
the late six days’ walking contest between the
pedestrians Edwards and O’Leary at the Exhibition
Building, and which the former claims to have
won. O’Leary, however, entered a protest, on the
ground that the scores were manipulated while the
contest was in progress, and he now states that as
the result of this protest his share of the stakes
has been returned to him. His trainer for the race
states positively that from the first there was an
agreement between the men that O’Leary should
be permitted to win. in the event of O’Leary
failing to cover 435 miles, Edwards was to pass him,
if possible, and claim the stakes. O’Leary was to
receive two-thirds of the gate money, but this
part of the arrangement, It is asserted, was not
carried out. The trainer referred to—M. Boland—
publicly challenges Edwards to deny the state-
ments made as to collusion between the men, the
manipulation of the scores, the unfair appoint-
ment of scorers, and the assertion made by O’Leary
that the stakes were equally divided. Edwards,
who has left the colony for Sydney, persists in
stating that he received the whole of the stakes,
so that the affair is full of contradiction and con-
fusion.” As we have often pointed out, a “ double
cross ” is a grand recipe for stirring up muddy
water. Had there been honour among the sawdust
worriers, the interesting alleged compact between
Edwards and O’Leary would in all probability never
have come to light. By the way, one of Edwards’
fastest walks—from Bathurst, if our memory
serves as aright—does not appear in his list of per-
formances.
If “ Pendragon” of the Referree can be re-
lied upon, Charles Mitchell, the English pugilistic
champion, must be an accomplished liar. “ Pen’
says:—“ I have received several batches of letters
concerning the * scholastic pugilist,’ about whose
doings and whose interview with the reporter
there seems to have been something like a sensa-
tion in the midlands. Some correspondents ap.
pear very anxious lest I should believe all that
Charles Mitchell says about himself and his re-
lations. Now, I did not for one moment suppose
that anyone would imagine I subscribed to the
story. Still, as the mistake causes me to learn
much that I did not know before, there is no
necessary for me to grumble. Mitchell's father
was not tutor at Queen’s Medical College, Birming-
ham. He was porter, a distinction with some con-
siderable difference. The porter is, I presume, the
proud young person who carries the dead bodies
down to the mortuary, who assists in conveying
patients who are to be operated upon into the
theatre, and who does whatever has to be done of
like description. Contrast this position with that
of medical tutor, which would, I suppose, mean
medical lecturer, and Charles Mitchell’s ability as
a dazzling flctionist stands at once confessed.
When he has disposed of Sullivan, and finds no
other work to do in the pugilistic world, he may
likely enough turn his attention to literature.
That he can write was shown by his letter to
Greenfield, a copy of which was kept at this
office as a curiosity ; that he can invent was proved
by his communication to the New York reporter.
Mitchell’s brother now holds the honourable
position of porter, vice the father gone over, and
now ‘ up or down,’ as the case may be.”
The following letter, clipped from the
Australasian, may prove interesting to some of
the correspondents who inundate us with queries
as to the bona fides of certain “Sweeps”:—‘ Sir, I
took some tickets in the Groat Bonanza Sweep on
last Australian Cup, and drew second horse
(Willeroo), being entitled to £loO, less 10 per cen .
commission. I forwarded ticket to J. Thomas.
In due course got reply. “Please find cheque £90
enclosed.&c. ;’ T but there was no cheque in the
letter. I found the envelope had been corn open,
and some stamp-edging pasted over the tear. The
letter was registered, and tho usual cross put on
registered letters was on top of the stamp-
edging. I wrote to Thomas informing him of this.
After some further correspondence ho sends me a
cheque drawn on Bank of Australasia, Elizabeth-
stroet branch, Melbourne, made payable to S.D.,
and drawn by R. Foster (who, in a subsequent
letter, he informs me is treasurer of the club),
which had been paid into Commercial Bank, Mel-
bourne, and collected by them from Bank of Aus
tralasia. I have written to both banks, but can get
on satisfaction. The manager of the Commercial
Bank informs mo a respectable firm paid it in, but
declines to give name of firm, 1 also wrote to the
Postmaster-General of Victoria on the subject, as
Thomas intimated that the letter must have been
tampered with after reaching the Post-office. At
last I wi ote to Thomas, telling him I considered the
whole affair a swindle, threatening to expose him
through tho medium of the press ; also to put the
affair into the hands of tho police. In reply to
which he informs me, “ The police are deluged
with complaints from victims who entrusted their
money to bogus companies.” Re exposing him he
coolly replies, “ Such a proceeding would un-
doubtedly prove a good advertisement to us than
otherwise, as you would admit having drawn the
second horse in our Australian Cup sweep, thus
proving the bona-fide of the drawing, &c. ’ He
winds up by offering me a corresponding number
of tickets in his sweep now optn on next Mel-
bomme Cup. He also kindly informs me that I
have his greatest sympathy for my loss. Un-
fortunately I don’t value his sympathy to the tune
of £90. To enter fully into the matter re the cor-
respondence which has passed i etween us would
take up too much of your valuable space. If the
cheque was paid into the Commercial Bank by a
highly respectable firm, and, as the manager
further alleges, “said firm appear to have received
it from a genuine source,” surely there can be no
difficulty in tracing it. I have already written the
Commissioner of Police, and briefly explained the
affair to him, as well as sent him the cheque above
alluded to. There is evidently something very
shady in the affair, and I have come to the con-
clusion the Great Bonanza Sweep is nothing but a
swindle. I think it only right the public should
be warned against investing their money in such a
swindle as this evidently is. In your issue of 7th
inst. I see a letter inserted from another victim.
Trusting you may find room in your valuable
columns for this,—1 am, &c.,
CHARLES CHAPPLE.
Mundi Mundi, Barrier Ranges, N.S.W.”
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
The Prince Alfred Yacht Club will change
its name to “ Royal” Alfred Yacht Club so soon as
the necessary documents are completed. We
regret to add, however, that the price of fried fish
will still remain unchanged Old Lone Hand has
been in six or seven New Zealand stables. He has
again changed hands—The Townsville (Q.) races
were a great success compared with last year’s
meeting. The totalisator brought £40, and tho
amount cleared was £350....Transferred has been
transferred from E. Weeks to A. G. Hunter for 500
guineas. He has gone to India The Dunedin
Jockey Club balance sheet showed receipts £10,311
7s. 8d., of which £3533 4s. 3d. came from the totali-
sator. The expenditure was £13,698 8s. 9d., of which
£5046 17s. were paid as stakes, and £3690 13s. 3d. for
new training-course, stand, and Improvements ...
The first cricket match played at Noumea, New
Caledonia, eventuated on 37th July, between
elevens of the New Caledonia Cricket Club, and
the Electric Circus. The local team won by 47
runs A project is on foot, in Melbourne, to pro-
mote a six days’ match between a bicycle rider
and three long-distance pedestrians. The idea is
to add up the scores of the three men, and put the
aggregate score against that of tho rider The
following are the annual tees fixed upon by the
Victorian Legislature for sporting dogs:—“For
every greyhound, kangaroo dog, lurcher, pointer,
setter, or retriever, £1; every hound, being one of
a pack of not less than twenty-four, kept
confined, and exclusively for hunting, 5s
The water police have seized a huge line 3U0 feet
long and baited with 100 hooks, which had been
laid in the Yarra(Vic.) for fishing .. TheGoulburn
Turf Club shows a small debit balance. W.
Douglas elected president, J. Chisholm, Junr., vice-
president. Nearly all the old names on the com-
mittee The Lismore Jockey Club had fine
though hot weather tor their two days’ racing.
Barbarelle won tho Mares’ Produce Stakes; Ches-
terfield, tho Maiden Plate; and Maroney, tho Town
Plate Handicap, on the first day; and, on the
second, Maroney and Shamrock won the Lismore
J.C. Handicap and Flying Handicap respectively.
The Totalisator Repeal Bill was read a third
time and passed in tho south Australian House of
Assembly without any opposition being offered
A N.Z. paper says: “ The Plunger is likely to go in
for the jumping business next year.” There are
twenty-five entries for the Canterbury (N.Z.) Cup,
most of the N.Z. Cup favourites being among
them — Twenty-six foals nominated for the Aus-
tralian Trotting Club’s Sires’ Produce Stakes,
Victoria .. The Dunedin (N.Z.) Jockey Club show
a balance on the right side of £4000. The totalisator
brought them in £35,330 through last season.
* * ♦
The three days’ cocking main in Ports-
mouth, Va., between Washington and Long Island
chickens, for 300 dols. a tight and 1000 dols. on the
odd battle, closed on June 7 by Washington winning
the main, the score standing—Washington, 5; Long
Island, 4. It was the heaviest cooking demonstra-
tion that ever took place, sporting men being
present from Washington, Baltimore, Now York,
Cincinnati, and various parts of North Carolina
Prince Batthyanys, representatives placed a reserve
of 13,000 guineas on Galopin, who was sold at New-
market, with the rest of the stud, during the July
week. Fulmen was priced at 4000 guineas In
England, the Derby day for next year has been
fixed tor May 38. The Two Thousand will be run
on April 30, and the Ascot Cup June 13.
A LIFE OF CRICKET.
[SOME OF THE RHYMES WHICH INCITE TO SUICIDE.]
When yet a little tiny mite,
For cricket I’d a yearning;
I never took the least delight
In “going in ” for learning.
For classics (tho’ ’twas very wrong)
My hate was quite unyielding,
“ Tom Bowling ” was my only song,
My favourite author, Fielding.
A growing lad—brimfull of fun,
I often used my long legs
To make a little stolen run
In search of neighbours’ ducks’ eggs.
Thus, being on such pranks intent,
My tutors oft on me dropped ;
No matter to what school 1 wont,
I never very long stopped.
A “ twenty-two ” I first began
For “ racing ” to have cravings,
And, ere I grew a wiser man,
Was s umped of father’s savings.
Whenever any horse was “tipped,”
The brute ‘ r ran out” in running,
Or else the precious creat re “ siipped”
(You must excuse this punning).
To business then I turned ray mind,
For left with scarce a stiver.
Myself I’d very often find
Hard driven for a “ liver.”
But in the city, I admit.
My talents were not shining;
I seldom made a lucky hit
In stations, stock, or mining.
So next to win a wealthy bride
I ’gan to look about me;
The circle of my friends was wide,
No ball complete without me.
And when 1 found a splendid catch,
There’s little need to mention,
I tried to bring about a match
By paying her attention.
One morning, strolling round the “ block,”
Her round arm gently pressing,
Of her abundant curls a lock,
I begged with words caressing.
Anon, one evening, rather late,
Mid field of fragrant clover,
While resting by a wicket gate,
I talked that maiden over.
She whispered, “ Only mend your ways,
Then I my name will alter.
And ere the lapse of many days
We twain stood at the altar.
A month of marriage showed me that
Her ways were most peculiar,
And I had been the blindest bat
To splice myself to Julia.
Her waving wealth of sunny curls
(On which I’d penned a sonnet)
Was false, like many other girls,
I will go bail upon it.
And as sue put aside each pad.
My loved one’s figure dwindled.
(I really think it’s very sad
That men should be so swindled.)
Alas 1 for my unhappy life,
I oft, now safely “landed,”
Discover points about my wife,
Both mean and underhanded.
No ray of sunshine lights my path,
The gloom around me thickens;
I read the “Cricket on the Hearth,”
And wish her to the Dickens.
NEW CHUM.


F
URNITURE SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O'Connell and Spring street*, Sydney.
HALL FURNITURE. HATSTANDS, and
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb, Furniture Importers, Spring and
O’Connell streets, Sydney.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, in EXQUISITE
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c. t
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
NOVELTIES In Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
SUITES, Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
AFTERNOON TEA TABLES, elegant and inex-
pensive. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell-street.
ARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c. _
ILLIARD TABLES, full size, with appurten-
ances : also smaller Convertible Tables, 7 and
8 feet—may be used as dining tables. Now on view.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, Importers, Spring
and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at lowest prices. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Importers,
O’Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressingtable and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY,
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
HEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 20s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, fram 35s; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands. from 10s 6d; Tables, from 7s 6d: Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 30s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 25s; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
85s.
BRADLEY,:
NEWTON,
and LAMB,
SYDNEY.
F
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shel vos, 85s. BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
URNITURE.—The Largest Stock in the
_ Colony. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell-street.
RA WING-ROOM CABINETS—Early English,
Anglo-Japanese, and Chippendale designs,
uilst opened. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
streets.
Dining-room furniture. —Magnificent
Suites in Walnut, Oak, and Mahogany. Side-
boards, Dinner Waggons, &c., to match. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O’Connell streets.
Framework for drawing and dining
ROOM FURNITURE, Handsome and Massive,
in Oak, Walnut and Mahogany. The VERY BEST
REAL MOROCCO SKINS, and Materials for up-
holstery. Open to inspection. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB.
BEDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BIDDING.— All at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell-street.
ASHSTANDS, with marble, 35s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
w
ARDEN SEATS and Verandah Chairs.—Brad-
ley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—a very complete
Assortment just opened; many quite new,
designs.
O' CCASIONAL CHAIRS in VERY GREAT
Variety, Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c., Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
/Office furniture, writing tables’,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c., Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
TTCE CHESTS, all sizes, very superior make. Ex-
I amine before purchasing. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
IRON SAFES, various sizes. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
G
S'
TEINWAY NEW YORK PIANOS, the FINEST
in the world. A SHIPMENT just landed.
GUINEA PIANO, WARRANTED sound
and durable, In solid walnut case; specially
adapted for beginners or schools.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OTkGUINEA PIANO, brilliant toned, ftxll com-
OU pass, all the latest improvements, in hand-
some walnut case ; WARRANTED SOUND and
DURABLE ; BEST VALUE in the trade.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB^
T IPP’S CELEBRATED PIANOS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB
have received
another LARGE SHIPMENT
of
R. LIPP and SONS’ celebrated PIANOFORTES
direct from the Makers, comprising TALL
GRANDS, LITTLE UPRIGHT GRANDS, SA-
LOON GRANDS, VERY HANDSOME and of the
HIGHEST CLASS FINISH,
in
WALNUT and BLACK GOLD.
WE HAVE NOW THE LARGEST STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA OF
LIPP’S PIANOS
TO SELECT FROM.
WE INVITE INSPECTION.
FOR PRIVATE SALE AT EXTREMELY LOW
PRICES.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Pianoforte Importers,
O’Connell and Spring street*.
SOCIAL.
Nearly 800 people attended the Citizens’
Ball to the Mayor and Mayoress, a larger number
than usual being in tho meridian of life. The pro-
gramme, also, was larger than usual, containing
.,7 dances; it was arranged in modern stylo, with
nine waltzes. There seemed a general opinion
that tho building had never been better decorated,
and among the ordinary embellishments of white
and crimson draperies, festoons, and so on, there
was a speciality in wreaths and bouquets entirely of
native wild flowers; and there was also the double
lighting arrangement, gas and electricity com-
bined. The result was a light of extreme bril-
liancy, yet soft to the eyes, which exhibited
dresses well, but proved quite a tell-tale where
powder was used on cheeks. There was a double
row of rendezvous, tho outer pillars bearing tho
names of suburbs, and the inner row being named
after municipal wards. Mr. John Harris, who
wore his robe of office, was early on the scene, and
the Governor, attended by Lieutenant Nathan and
Mr. Unwin, private secretary, arrived at 20 past 9,
and soon after, a party having gathered on tho
dais, His Excellency spoke a few words of con-
gratulation to the Mayor and Mayoress, His Worshlp
replying briefly. Mrs. Harris wore a trained black
velvet robe, studded with very large pink and
white roses painted on satin. Two pink satin
dresses were most conspicuously beautiful—one,
with a small ruff, and line white lace trimming,
was worn by a tall, auburn-haired lady, whose
dancing was graceful; tho other was a trained
sleeveless dress, draped with pink lace, and caught
up with bunches of frosted grass and snowdrops.
Its wearer was Mrs. C. K. MThillaray, the belle of
tho room. Mrs. John Williamson wore a rich cos-
tume, with an abundant wealth of colour — a dark
moss-green velvet bodice, open to show crushed
strawberry in front slashed with green ; and
crushed strawberry satin skirt, tho whole docked
with warm-hued leaves. A very lovely dress was
that of Madame Kellermann—body and train of
bright yet delicate strawberry pink silk, with
white silk front in elaborate gathering, and set off
with flue lace. Mrs. Alfred Bennett displayed a
handsome combination of two blues, the robe of
Elizabethan style being substantially of indigo
velvet, but contrasted with tho lighter shades of
pale blue satin. An extremely elegant dress
was worn by Miss Halloran, a sleeveless black
satin, black tulle puffings at tho back, the
breast and skirt garlanded obliquely with large
bright yellow lilies, giving a pretty and artis-
tic look. A handsome dress of brown velvet
and brochiS was the costume of Mrs. John Martin;
a pink satin draped with ficelle lace was the choice
of Miss Marie St. Clair; a dark and light blue satin
embellished with beetles’ wings, the very hand-
some costume of Mrs. John Hardie; and an ele-
gantly made salmon pink trimmed with white lace
suited Miss Etherodge. Mr. Critchett Walker, who
Is a beau of a dancer, carefully swings a tall and
stately partner in medusa green; while Captain
Watson’s uniform is seen gliding smoothly round
in company, now with his wife in a quiet black
toilet, and now with a lady in white spotted India
muslin, decked with white ribbons—in fact, Mrs.
John Smith. The Hon. Sir John Hay ventures upon
square dances; and, while the Hon. 1. A. Wright
seems to prefer a spectator’s part, Mr. Han
O’Connor does a butterfly buzz round tho garden
of beauty, in search of its fairest flowers. Mr. J.
M. Purves worships Terpsichore devotedly, Colonel
Richardson looks on, and the Mayor only looks.
His Excellency Lord Loftus didn't manifest the
slightest signs of any frivolous tendency; but his
Private Secretary, Mr. Unwin, lost no time in
interviewing pretty Kate Chard, who was charming
In a cardinal satin body without sleeves, and a
black tulle skirt, not troublcsomoly long. In
a quiet corner, tho Hon. Geoffrey Eagar has been
buttonholed by Mr. Benjamin Palmer, who floods
him with eloquence, and is no doubt wondering
how it was the citizens never gave him a ball when
he was Mayor. Sir Patrick Jennings, K.C.M.G.,and
Mr. Charles Roberts, C.M.G., Messrs. Hutchinson
and Holtermann, M.’sP.. Mr. G. N. Griffiths, M.P.,
with his arm in a sling, Mr. Robert Butcher( Mayor
of Woollahra), and others, lent such brilliancy to the
scene that it almost didn’t matter whether the
lamps went out or not. On the arm of the portly
Mr. Glbbes, M.P.. hung the bride, in a trained
white robe, who is credited with h iving brought
that gentleman a largo amount of happiness and
what preachers call “dross.” One of the daintiest
little dancers, correct and pretty in every step, was
little Miss Hodge, daughter of the bandmaster: and
very quietly charming were tho daughters of Mr.
Pritchard (hon. sec.), in white, with delicate trim-
ming of heath. A Glebe Road young lady appeared
in a rich blue silk almost covered with a profusion
of tine cream lace; and her married sister in a nice
black moird antique, ornate with scarlet flowers.
Tho daughter of an Inspector adorned a pale blue
satin, tho front gathered and trimmed with honiton
lace and pearls. A black brochd was very tine
with immense pink roses on the skirt, from the
hem of which all round rows of little pink pom-
pons climbed up for about a foot; a companion
dress being also excellent, of black satin and
spotted tulle, with gigantic poppies up the breast
and on the skirt. A handsome brunette, with
white-powdered hair, had the only dress of its
colour, a satin of dark golden green. The old-gold
tinsellcd-grenadine of Miss M’Leod, worn with
black velvet zone, collar piece of coronal, and
pimdrc d'ar on the hair, was like its pretty wearer,
a continual sparkle. Miss Kate M’Elhone wore a
brilliant dross of light terra cotta silk and train,
trimmings of black lace; and bright Mrs. H. S.
Chipman an Elizabethan ruby velvet, relieved with
pink satin and white lace. Pretty simplicity was
represented in its most attractive shape by Miss
Walsh, from North Shore, in pure white linen
material worked in tiny flounces, touched off with
white ribbons and ivy wreathing. A bright yellow
satin with a tinge of green was worn by Miss
Westgarth, draped with white lace, flowers en
corsage. Mrs. F. Wyatt’s costume was a sumptuous
blending of violet and lavender, with settings of
lace and feathers; and there were many handsome
dresses worn by ladies at the sides whose part in
tho ball was chiefly that of chaperonage. The
“Bulwarra” waltz, composed by Mr. J. Stevens,
and named after the Mayor's place, was played
twice, and proved a capital composition to dance to.
Mr. Stevens, who, as a composer, is a mixture of
juvenescenco and genius, assured us tho waltz was
played a second time at the special request of the
Mayoress, who nearly went wild with delight when
she heard it played tho flrst. Wo subsequently
noticed it was down those two times on the pro-
grammes, printed some days before. This con-
vinced us what a powerful composition this must
be —it fills people with rapture three days before
they hear it. Music was by the City Band, and
Messrs. Needs acted as Masters of Ceremonies.
Part of the gallery was a promenade for the
dancers, and part was screened off for spectators,
who stayed till 1 or 2 o’clock. Compagnom s
catering was of a more dainty nature than at ordi-
nary public balls, and the separate marble tables
for parties were a good idea.
• • *
The Uralla maidens had a great treat on
Tuesday week, when the Oddfellows celebrated
their anniversary by a ball and supper in the
Temperance Hall. About 60 couples made an at-
tractive gathering, and kept circulating till day-
light. Two Ural la sisters, one in blue and white,
the other in pink and white, did the town credit;
and the blonde daughter of an old resident of
Salisbury Plains looked charming iu black and
pink.
♦ ♦ *
A number of Mercantile Rowing Club men
gathered at the Coolalta Wine Cellars on the 15th
August, when Mr. W. R. Benson, ex-captain, pre-
sented several pretty room ornaments to Mr. D.
Murray, to mark members’ recognition of his
efforts in engineering the M.R.C. balls so capably
for the last five years, as hon. sec. Mr. Murray’s
exertions in that time have put £500 in the club-
coffers ; and there’s not the slightest doubt the
club will be happy to give him a lot more orna-
ments if he will work for another live years in the
same way. Mr. Murray replied as modestly as he
could, and heaped some of the praise on to Mr. W.
A. Blackstone, his co-adjutor thi? year.
* * ♦
SThe Melbourne Deutscher Turn-Verein
ask Ball on the 13th August surpassed anything
that has been seen in Sydney, as there were over
1800 dancers on the floor, and 2500 persons bought
spectators’ tickets. Zelman’s Turn-veroin Band of
36 performers played, and there was a grand pro-
cession, d la carnival, about midnight. The most
striking thing about the ball was the cowardly
blow given by a blackguard to Mr. Woolf, the
secretary, who was knocked senseless by a bottle
dashed in his face at the supper table.
* ♦ *
On Tuesday evening, the 14th, the Ladies’
Prizes won at the late Glebe Regatta wore pre-
sented at the local Town Hall by Sir G. Wigram
Allen. He handed over about 20 prizes, and said
very little. The articles were worked by ladies,
and as each incipient Hanlan walked up for his
smoking: cap or baby’s socks, it was a smiling
match between the hero who got, and the lady who
made, each particular prize. Afterwards, a com-
pany of about 100 commenced dancing, and with
the aid of refreshers, and good music from piano
and violin, they kept the floor till midnight. But
if Hanlan docs come, he'd bettor not go near the
Glebe—that’s all,
< « •
Ou Wednesday week the return compli-
mentary ball to Mr. H. Giltiuan occurred, in the
Oddfellows’ Hall, and about 80 attended. The
music was stylishly played by a quartette, under
Mr. Hogg ; and Callaghan’s catering was so power-
ful that ft made everyone who went to the tables
call-aghan every chance he got. With these ad-
vantages, and a good floor, the dancing was main-
tained till 4 a.m., by which hour the dancers had
made the programme look very tired. The ball
was managed by a committee, and the hon. see.
was Mr. J. Burne, who received everybody with
great warmth. Both plain and fancy dresses were
worn, but nothing very novel —a jockey costume
being pretty ; and so were Fanchette and Patience.
Miss O’Neil wore a sailor costume—pretty enough
to go to sea ; and Miss Pears was Heartsease.
Niglit shone, and Mr. Honeyman was sweet in a
“ Manola ” character ; and Miss Seale would seal
the fate of any one in a waltz. The attendance
showed that Mr. Giltinan has won golden opinions
from his pupils, though, no doubt, he’d quite as
rather have the gilt-in-an other way.
• •
Another fierce, blind onslaught has been
made by a New York cleric (Kev. Leo Koenig) on
the practice of dancing. It would be wearisome
to repeat all he says. The Kev. Koenig has pro-
bably been gifted with a pair of larye feet, and
been mercilessly snubbed by the girls, when he
was a young chump, for his awkwardness. But
even these annoying circumstances would not
warrant him in assuming a position so peculiarly
antagonistic to Nature and his Creator. All animal
life expresses the fulness of health and spirits by
capering. It’s as natural for a child to dance as
for a flower to grow. Children caper and prance
uncouthly, out of the mere exuberance of vitality;
and when they get older and more conventional,
tuition leads them to do it to sweet sounds, and in
a decorous, rhythmic way. God made people so
that they could dance, and gave them capacity for
keenly enjoying it—the Kev. Koenig’s ideas not-
withstanding. Look at a man, his sinewy supple
limbs, his graceful poise, his whole frame —if he is
not to dance, isn’t it a pity he was ever made so
dangerously fit for it ? Look at a girl, her lithe
and lightsome figure encircled by the whirling
skipping-rope, her “ bounding grace of step ” in
the days of her merry maidenhood; isn’t she do-
ing exactly as Nature prompts her? isn’t her waist
shaped exactly as if it was meant but, there,
it’s no use saying more ; anyone can see
it. But, entirely apart from the outcome of
health, strength, and spirits, the dance is an
artistic recreation as much as the song. Clergy-
men do not do well to suggest evil. It is because
of idle, evil rumours that harm ever comes it;
because, in fact, not being regarded as a desirable
accomplishment, it is indulged in in an “off-colour”
sort of way, and degenerates into disagreeable, un-
graceful romping. Then, because certain persons
degrade it, thoughtless speakers denounce the
practice, instead of those persons. Parents, whom
parsons have persuaded that dancing is wrong—
who will not let their children go to a dancing class
where strictest behaviour is enforced—will con-
tentedly watch them cling to and grab one another
in the roughest horseplay in their own homes, and
think it no harm. Yet that is just where harm hap-
pens to be. If dancing be unseemly and voluptuous,
it will be found the result of want of teaching, or of
a deliberate deviation from what has been taught
—for we do not believe that even the most indif-
ferent tutor of dancing ever teaches the least
indecency. When practised, it is by persons who if
they didn’t indulge in their inherent sensualness in
that way would be bound to find some other outlet.
But, surely, it would be a great error of reasoning
to blame dancing for what was solely the fault of
the individual persons. If parents, who won’t let
their daughters learn dancing, would forbid them
attempting it altogether, there would be less harm
done, for then there would be no wretched
caricaturing of a really graceful accomplish-
ment. But if there is one thing that throws dis-
credit on the art, it is the ugly Jumping about seen
at “homo hops,” where the girls have been al-
lowed to “pick up” and do badly, that which a
mother’s mistaken idea of propriety won’t al-
low them to learn properly, and do well. As for
the insinuation that dancing is a step towards un-
chasteness, it may be safely said that there la no
influence so evil, and so destructive of true chas-
tity, as the continual suggestions that a man cannot
look at a woman, or touch her, or talk to her, or
dance with her, without libidinous thought, or
danger of corruption ensuing. And as to the hint
that contiguity to beauty engenders desire, the
idea could only spring from innocence of facts.
For, according to any method of dancing tuition
we have ever known, partners, when dancing,
scarcely touch, and do not look at one another. A
girl who “ bears ’ ’ upon a man has either never
been taught how to dance, or must have strangely
allowed her yearnings to overcome her modesty,
when she does it. We should say a mother who
could watch her doing it, would be at least obtuse.
Partners have their heads turned in opposite
directions, can neither see face nor figure of one
another, and are kept too busy threading their
way through the shifting crowd, to loiter for a
moment in dangerous dalliance. Dccriers of dan-
cing seem to have some foolish notion, probably
dug out of Byron’s antiquated ode, about the fear-
ful demoralization which follows when the arm of
one sex slips round the waist of the other. All the
waists wo ever encircled, whatever encompassed
them, were never soft. And any young man who
would feel the least like indiscretion because he
felt his hand grasping an adamantine bundle of
steel and whalebone, would derive delight from
squeezing a nail-can, or feel voluptuous over a tin
drum.
• • •
On 6th August, Moree was the scene of a
most interesting wedding, one of the best yet seen
on the Gwydir. The bridegroom was Mr. Ernest
Traynor, and the bride Miss Kate Conroy, whose
symmetrical figure was attired in white silk,
trimmed with brocaded satin, honlton lace, myr-
tle and clematis sprigs; train nearly four yards
long, silk tulle veil, and orange wreath. There
were five bridesmaids, the chief lady wearing pale
blue satin, and the second pink satin, trimmed
with cream Spanish lace; and three little maids
were in white satin with caps to match. The
bride’s mother wore black corded silk and lace;
the bridegroom’s mother, ruby satin. A lady from
Melbourne displayed a stylish black silk, with gold
embellishments; a young Bathurst matron was
pretty in white satin cloth, trimmed with Maltese
face and forget-me-nots. Another married lady
appeared in fine black brocaded satin, ordered
from England for the occasion. After the cere-
mony, and the Wedding March, the party sat down
to a‘breakfast provided by Mr. George Moore, of
West Maitland, in fine style, and speeches were
given. Afterwards, the bridegroom and bride
started for the metropolis, the lady in a very
handsome navy blue velvet, hat, gloves, and para-
sol to match.
Social continued on nojet page.


FOR WOOL WAREHOUSE.
MORT AND COMPANY (Limited)
Offer a Premium of One Hundred Guineas for the
most approved design for a
WOOL WAREHOUSE,
to be erected on their property at Circular Quay.
For farther particulars, apply to
MORT & CO. (Limited)
Circular Quay, Sydney.
<20,000
To be distributed on the
MELBOURNE CUP, 1883,
To be run on November 6th.
HSF“ ALL PRIZES !! NO BLANKS !!!
“THE MELBOURNE TURF CLUB”
Desire to inform the Sporting Public that they
have made arrangements for holding a Mammoth
Sweep on the forthcoming Melbourne Cup, which
for Novelty, Fidelity, and Advantage has no equal
in Australia.
Capital £20,000 in 20,000 Shares of £1 Each.
First Horse £0000
Second „ 1000
Third „ 1000
Starters Divide ... 1000
Non-starters „ ... 1000
Total £15,000
The remaining £5000 will be employed by the
Club in making a book on the Cup and other races,
that is, laying and taking the odds by a new system,
the success of which has been practically proved.
It is estimated that the profits accruing from this
source will range from £5000 to £15,Off), the whole
of which, both capital and profits, will bo equally
divided amongst subscribers who wore unsuccess-
ful in drawing either a horse or a prize in the
Mammoth Sweep. Each Subscriber will be sure of
obtaining a Prize, be it large or small. The Pro-
moters of the M. T. C. arc well-known sporting
gentlemen, and guarantee the above to be a bond-
fid# affair in every particular. Ten per cent, com-
mission deducted from all winnings. Drawing to
take place on October 28th. Results posted imme-
diately after. Subscribers who wish to be present,
will nlease notify us in time. Add 3d. for reply and
result. Address—
THOMAS BENTLEY, Secty.
M. T. C., Melbourne.
4 Prizes of £500 £2000
8 „ 250 2000
10 „ 200 2000
30 „ 100 2000
WOOL SALES, 1883.
MY very numerous constituents, and all in-
terested in the wool trade, will please take
notice that my unrivalled
NEW WAREHOUSE
AT
Darling Harbour Railway Terminus
Will he READY FOR THIS SEASON, and that I
T b i l iinl'SrTi epaied ,i to A° the fu l le st justice to the
LARGEST as well as the SMALLEST Clips.
Each lot will be carefully Weighed and Valued
as soon as received, weights and valuations being
submitted to owners so as to hear from them be-
fore sale If necessary.
Owing, now, to the attendance of Foreign
Buyers, our market is equal to the Loudon Market
—a point well worth remembering. Any Bank or
Firm holding liens on wool will, if asked, allow
owners to send their wool to me ; and any For-
warding Agents, or Managers of Railways or
Steam Companies, will receive and forward Wool
or ether Produce on my account, and pay carriage
or other expenses.
ALL PROCEEDS OP SALE will be available, as
heretofore, at ANY TIME after sales ; or AD-
VANCES, small or large, made before sales are
effected.
SALES of LIVE STOCK. TALLOW, HIDES
GRAIN, SUGAR, and every sort of Produce will
also meet with the greatest possible care.
JOHN BRIDGE.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and Magazines received by
every Hall.
ROYAL ARCADE. 496 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
THE COVENTRY MACHINISTS’ COMPANY
MAKERS BY SPECIAL WARRANT TO HAUL THE PRINCE OP WALES.
TRADE MARK REGISTERED.
Intending Purchasers of
Bicycles & Tricycles
THE SPECIAL CLUB.
Should Write to Us or Call on Us.
As we have always on hand a full
Stock of THE CLUB BICYCLES and
TRICYCLES, we never fail to give
purchasers the best satisfaction.
We have permission from the leading
BICYCLE AND TRICYCLE RIDERS
OF THE COLONY to refer inquirers
as to the merits of our machines to
them, and we shall take pleasure in
doing this whenever requested, as their
good recommendation has already sold
for us a number of machines. Expe-
rienced Machinists inspect and adjust
every machine.
THE AUSTRALIAN CLUB.
SPECIAL AGENCY
THE IMPERIAL CLUB
te Martin & Conjiy.,
THE CHEYLESMORE CLUB.
389 George Street, opposite
Royal Hotel.
CRUMPTON & BRUCE'S
CELEBRATED
OVERSTRUNG IRON-FRAMED PIANOS,
Warranted for 7 years—Prices, £25, £30, £35, £42, & £55.
For the first time, a Piano embracing all the merits of a High-class Instrument, at a Low
Price, is brought within the reach of all.
Style No. 2, at 12 guineas—a marvel of Cheapness.
WRITE FOR PIANO, ORGAN, AND MUSIC PRICE LISTS, TO
Champion & Bruce, 281 George-st., Sydney,
OPPOSITE HUNTER-STREET.
☆
ooo v ,
THE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO.
I
are the largest consumers of American
, Leaf in the colonies, hence the FIRST
' position for quality is assigned to their Twist
and Flat Tobaccos —Yankee Doodle, Conqueror, Sir Roger (thick
twist), R. C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture, and others.
CIGARETTES. —Their CONQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold an eQual position.
Si S., Importers of Pipes of every kind, Cigars, and all Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods and Sundries,
M
A S O N I C
BALL
will
The LODGE of ST. ANDREW, No. 358,
SCOTCH CONSTITUTION,
celebrate its THIRTY-THIRD ANNIVER-
SARY with a BALL (Evening Dress),
on THURSDAY, September 13th, 1883,
in the TOWN HALL VESTIBULE.
Compagnoni will cater.
Tickets—35s, 17s 6d, and 10s.
EDUCATIONAL.
MISS LYDIA HASTINGS instructs in VOICE
BUILDING, ELOCUTION, PUBLIC and
PARLOUR READINGS. Class at SYDNEY
SCHOOL OF ARTS, Friday, 4 p.m.; and at
SYDNEY ARCADE, Room 35. Wednesday, 8 p.m.
(Ladies and Gentlemen). Visitors invited.
mraiLLipgrRW” ia<llcs G “ Ueme11 ’
Terms for Schools or Clubs ou application.
Last Friday, the Lytton Club gave a com-
nlimentary entertainment to several hundreds in
the Protestant Hall, specially requesting all of
them to put on their dress clothes, and gentlemen
w ho were unaccompanied by ladies to go upstairs,
and not spoil the effect of the scene down below.
The concert comprised 23 items, in which excel-
lence considerably fluctuated; Misses Wilson, Der-
nelly, Cowley, Simpson, Lovett, and Fischer
warbled, and a small maid, Nellie Harbin, was the
pet, with her “Fair Malden.” Messrs. Jeffreson,
Casper, Pier, Callaghan, and Bobbie sang; while
Messrs. E. and B. Palmer, Bradley, and Teece re-
cited, the latter best. Encores were not permitted;
put when “The Mad Butcher” was followed in
tragic succession by “The Suicide,” it was with the
greatest difficulty one half of the audience held
the other half down in their seats, to prevent an
infringement of the rule. When the concert
ended, dancing was begun; though, as only some
had been invited for it (others for the concert), it
was a matter of considerable delicacy to get the
“ others ” away. It was rather hard to go, too,
just when the enjoyment was about to commence.
• • •
Forty-four years! Yes, there it is m cork-
screw characters on our claret-stained programme.
For forty-four years Mr. W. King has been engaged
in teaching young and old Sydney to dance. It’s
a long time to chasse along at that wearing occu-
pation, watching the generations of dancers
plough up and down the floor. We are young-
have only seen them for a few years; but even
now, when we look at some of them, we don’t
know whether to feel saddest or maddest. What
tears, idle tears, must a veteran of nearly half a
century have shed over some of our grandfather’s
playmates in their earnest struggles to master the
one, two, three, and a hop.” Some of them are
at it still, and haven’t mastered it yet. If we’d
started to teach dancing the same time as Mr. King,
w e would have had two cemeteries filled with
pupils by this time—pupils we had “ removed ” in
our haste. The complimentary ball, on Thursday
night, seemed to be a case of ‘ r the survival of the
tittest,” for they were all good dancers. Ladies’
attire was varied and pretty, music was “ rattling,”
and as everybody seemed to know all the others,
programmes rapidly tilled. A young, fair face,
with melting eyes, had some connection with some
blue satin—not too much of it, either—and a
cream-striped scarf, very wide, draped up behind,
set off a pretty figure. Miss Cunningham, in cream
gatin, was alive with pearls ; and Miss Pointer
created an effect by bunches of white and pink
chrysanthemums across black silk, and climaxed
by crushed raspberry gloves. The one martyred
colour was everywhere—crushed strawberry in the
hair, on the shoulders, hands—and shoes ! Two
sisters from Surry Hills were attired in cream :
terra cotta ribbons and sun-flowers on one dres-,
cardinal bows and a poppy meadow on the other.
Perhaps it made some admirers “ poppy,” too I
To our mutable judgment, the most becoming
dress was worn by Miss Bayfield—skirt of light
pink satin, polonaise of bright ruby velvet trim-
med with iridescent beads, the upper portion quite
a rose-bush in bloom. Yet beauty was also to be
found in another field—Miss Merrifiold—who wore
a tricolour dress and streamers. Honours were
shared also by Miss MTadden, in crushed straw-
berry satin and cream lace, and other efforts of
adornment calculated to gratify the devices and
desires of the male heart. A Dolly Yarden was
very dainty in short quilted scarlet skirt, scarlet
hose, overskirt, of forget-me-not pompadour,
white straw hat trimmed with ears of wheat,
shiver grass, and poppies, and tied with cardinal
strings. The new cotillons were danced, and the
boll, which was really well managed by Mr. Be
Groen, broke up about 4 o’clock.
* * * *
The Camden Amateur Dramatic Club gave
a performance in the Camdon School of Arts for
the Cricket Club on the 10th inst., including “ Billy
Doo,” “Caught by the Cuff,” &c. And on the 17th,
played at Campbelltown, in aid of the widow of
the late Menangle cricketer, Charles Jones The
10th quarterly sociable fakes place in the Gym-
nasium, Liver pool-street, to-night. Grand com-
bination of maidens, muscles, and music. More
ladies’ tickets have been sent out than usual
A return ball to Mayor Dodgshun of Melbourne,
takes place on the 6th September Some very
pleasant Monday evenings are spent by the New-
town Private Skating Rink, and as all the members
are dancers, Assembly dances are to be held this
year as on previous occasions. The first one is
next Monday, at the Newtown Oddfellows’ Hall...
The Wollongong Oddfellows held another ball on
the Uth August, nearly 80 people attending It, the
Harmony Band playing music. A midnight supper
was provided, and a Sydney girl in cream silk was
either belle or very near it. These interesting-
critical remarks are made by the Argus on the
ladies’appearance:—“A large number of the far
sex wore the fringe over their forehead, thereby
detracting in many instances from the attractive-
ness of their appearance. The only one in our
opinion who was really suited and improved by the
fringe was Mrs. Jobson ” It will be awkward for
the editor, next time Mrs. Jobson goes to a bal’,
if she doesn’t happen to wear a fringe. We don’t
see how he’s to get out of calling her “middling.”
... .Those -who remember the last Manly Wildflower
Show will look with pleased expectation to the show
which opens on the Uth Sept, at Manly Park. The
flowers in the district are in splendiu bloom, and
prizes are to be given. But it is to be hoped the
promoters of this Show (which is for the benefit of
St. Matthew’s Church funds) will so arrange that
visitors will not have to suffer the abominable
crush experienced two years ago.... A return bail is
to be given to the Mayor of Armidale, Mr. John
Moore, who was so liberal at the time of the rail-
way demonstration— On dit, that a rising young
barrister has served a writ of attachment on the
heart of a Darling Point belle A suburban
exquisite presents a tramcar’d appearance conse-
quent on the husband of a charming lady returning
home earlier than expected. Law is looming
the City Band gave a public preformance in
>* ynyard Square last Thursday afternoon. A large
number of people filled the Square, and there
wasn’t an empty balcony in sight... The Duke of
Kumburgh Highlanders held their anniversary
banquet in the Protestant Hall a few days back,
tapt. Campbell, chairman. Mr. Kennedy,the Scotch
vocalist, made a capital speech in replying for the
Visitors.”.. .On August9th a farewell banquet
was given at Warwick (Q.) to Mr. Wm. Allan, M.P.
lor Darling Downs, prior to his leaving for Europe,
speeches continued till midnight, when the gas
was turned off — An unusually good concert was
ftven at Carcoar on the 15th August, in aid of the
k.C. Church funds. The audience was packed,
ana, at the close, the Rev. Father Hanley made a
sympathetic speech, in which he gravely assfired
tpe performers that he had listened in Europe to
singers of world-wide fame, and the Carcoar
carollers quite equalled them. Miss Fagan, of
carcoar, and Misses Fitzgerald and Hall, of
uathurst, were particularly happy, and a comedi-
etta closed the entertainment Sir John and
uady Hay gave a grand ball in the Exhibition the
night after the Mayor’s ball. Of course not so
jnaoy were there, but still sufficient to afford a fine
msplay of beauty and fashion—Next Wednesday,
me 39th, the Petersham Owl Club ball eventuates
in the local Town Hall, and it is expected to be the
nest yet hold there. It will be semi-private, and
tircss may be fancy or not.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Liberal Association Aug. 23
'ymdsor Masonic Ball Aug. 23
gymnastic Sociable Aug. 23
"oollahraPrivate Assembly (Nithsdale)...Aug. 24
Agricultural Society's Show opens Aug. 24
Newtown Rink Assembly Aug. 27
Petersham Owl Club Ball. Aug. 29
Sydney Private Assembly (Nithsdale) Aug. 31
st. Vincent’s Annual Ball (Exhibition) Sept. 4
government House Ball Sept. 5
Rugby Union Sports Sept. 8
school of Industry Ball (Town Hall) Sept. 11
si. Andrew’s Masonic Ball Sept. 13
bachelors’ Private Assembly (Nithsdale).. .Sept. 14
Manly WMflower Show. .. .„.! .... Sept. 14
b.o.A.A. Club Sports Sept. 15
Notices of all interesting Social Events (pro-
ho „. a^ theDti .V. ated b Y the names and addresses of
tue writers) will be inserted.
Sydney, 31st August.
Dear Belle,—There was no such great crush at
the Citizens’ Ball, after all the fuss about the
number of tickets taken being so enormous that
■ the sale had to be stopped on the Tuesday before.
We had heaps of room to dance, and there was—
oh! such a lot of wallflowers; I never saw so many
at a dance before. I thought the ball rather slow,
till the newspapers told me that it was “ one of the
most brilliant assemblages ever witnessed in the
colony,” and that “ all the talent, wealth, and in-
tellect of the great metropolis were represented.”
Then I came to the conclusion that I knew nothing
about it, and had better keep my sentiments to
myself. The electric light was not so trying as I
had feared—the gas modified that ghastly bluish
glare. The new “Bulwara” waltzes are pretty;
but not likely, I think, to displace “ Dreamland,”
and “ The Blue Danube.” The refreshments must
have been very good; Papa kept going to the rooms
all through the night, and coming out again with his
dear old face redder each time. I heard Mamma
telling him that he’d better go and see the
“ Woman of the People,” it might do him good.
The Mayor and the Governor made two or three
nice little speeches. I didn't hear a word of them;
but I call them nice because they were so short.
I hate men that make long speeches, don’t you,
dear ? But I must tell you about the dresses; some
of them were perfectly lovely, and they were
nearly all very handsome. The Mayoress wore
pale blue broclni and white lace. A lady with the
Mayor's party had a magnificent train of black
velvet, with large roses hand-painted all over it.
The belle, bej ond dispute, was a lovely girl, in a
lovely dress of shrimp pink satin; bunches of lilies
of the valley were fastened hero and there on the
back of the skirt, which had a very long train.
Someone told me she was a bride. She carried a
fan so long as to serve for a walking-cane. Fancy!
Her sister, scarcely less pretty, had a charming
dress of black silk, with pullings of black Brussels
net down the back of the skirt, and bright
yellow lilies. A iady with a tall and grace-
ful figure (the wife of a naval officer)
looked elegant in a dross of black satin
with open front cut square ; hair very high
on the head. Another had bodice and train of
white satin over white broehd petticoat. The most
picturesque and uncommon costume was an old
goldsatin, cutwith square open front; Elizabethan
collar of ruby colour. The wearer, with hair cut
short and powdered, looked a picture; in fact, a
perfect work of art. A very rich dress was ruby
velvet bodice and train over old gold satin petti-
coat, gold cord and tassels round the neck; wasn’t
that splendid ? Cream satin, the front nearly
covered with blush roses, over which wore flounces
of the loveliest iace, reminded me of that pretty
little bit in “ Lalla liookh ” —
“ Now upon Cashmere’s vale of roses
Softly the light of eve reposes.”
I must not forget one of the best of all
wonders ; a maize and white brocaded satin,
with silver fringe and embroidery. A black
satin, with panels of crushed strawberry, and
flowers to match, looked very nice. ’ There
were only two specimens of fruit adornments ; I
did not admire them. Several dresses were trimmed
with pompons: dotted all over the front skirts,
they looked to me like eruptions of some kind.
One or two costumes were so ornamented that they
kept recalling that old song you used to sing about
“ love ribbons and flowers hung round her in
showers,” &c. A dear, funny, little fat middle-
aged Darby and Joan were dancing with each other
and nobody else all night, and their solemn faces
amused me greatly, and Joan made mo break the
commandment “thou shalt not covet” by wearing
a small fortune in diamond rings outside her
gloves. This happy couple, I am told, go to every
bail in the season, and dance all the time together
in the same business-like manner. Two or three
misguided individuals appeared in fancy costume.
One, a Vivandidre, didn’t seem to feel uncomfort-
able a bit; but if ever a man looked like a fish out
of water, it was an unfortunate Jack Tar. Two
little girls, the eldest not more than eleven, danced
beautifully, and every dance; but it was a mistake,
if not a shame, to have such tiny things up all
night, A naval officer danced divinely.
I notice that dark gloves, brown, a shade or two
darker than tan. seem coming into favour for
evening wear, which is a comfort, though they
don't look so nice as light ones: but the hitter are
such an expense. Madoes grumble so about my
soiling them so quickly. Not a scrap of white is
seen about the necks of many evening dresses,
which nearly all have more or less of Elizabethan
collars.
I saw such a splendid costume on the Block on
Saturday morning—all claret coloured satin and
velvet, parasol of satin to match the dress, trimmed
with white lace. A very pretty and uncommon
one, which I caught a glimpse of in King-street,
had a skirt of fawn colour, embroidered with
pansies in silk, the jacket and tunic black velvet.
Another beauty was brown satin, the front the
loveliest shade of golden brown brocade. A cos-
tume of two shades of green, the front moss green
plush, with little tufts raised all over it, was pecu-
liar as well as pretty. Here and there, quite a
summer costume appeared, beside fur and seal-
skin.
There was quite a crowd at the “ Zoo.” on Satur-
day afternoon. A great many children, of course.
The gardens really begin to look charming. The
fountain played, and so did the City Band. I wish
the latter would learn some new things. Jumbo
promenaded, and two small boys at a time rode on
his back behind his Indian keeper, who jabbered
away, showing his teeth very extensively and
grinning most amiably all the time. It is a great
improvement, and much comfort to unscientific
people like mo, to have the common names of the
animals painted on boards alongside the cages, as
well as the learned ones. There was nothing very
startling in the way of dress, with the exception,
perhaps, of a white satin jacket over a moss-green
skirt. It looked odd, though the day was quite
warm enough for it. There were three or tour
rather good costumes—one of maroon broehd,
with cream bonnet and parasol; and another of
prune satin, were among these. Two young ladles,
with prune velvet jackets and skirts of satin the
same colour, looked nice. It is really too hot to
write more; so, good-bye, dear.
Yours,
MAB.
T> C T C . , in.tt.JJ.
P.S.—I forgot to tell you that ray pink looked
downright mean among the grand dresses at the
ball, and you know we all thought it so lovely the
night before.


DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Of Lacy, says Bright—
“ Incarnation of spite ;”
Of bright, remarks Lacy—
“ Witli self-esteem crazy.”
Rev. Spicer, on “Pre-Adamite Man,” deals
largely in hypotheses after the freest of free-
thinking fashions, and we don’t blame him one
single whit-only he should cut the painter boldly
that connects him with a Church that In her
Articles implies that all races of man now upon
earth are the offspring of Adam.
The so-called Christian Churches are in the
main institutions devoted to the satisfied classes,
favouring immobility, preaching submission and
reserving transfo mation in general for the other
side of the grave—hence the estrangement there-
from of the dissatisfied classes, who are anxious
that a good time should come to them on this side
of the grave.
Mem. for Bishop Pearson. Bishop Butler
wrote: “I express myself with caution, lest I
should be mistaken to vilify reason, which is in-
deed the only faculty we have wherewith to judge
concerning anything, even religion Itself.” Such
was Butler’s fidelity to that sacred light to which
Religion makes too many people false-Reason.
Mr. Rusden, in seconding a vote of thanks
to the Hon. Robert Stout, whose outspoken ad-
dress on Freethought had stirred the enthusiasm
of Melbourne Opera House, made a hit when he
stumbled on the pun: “ Many of us hold the same
opinions as the lecturer, but we’re afraid to express
them. We’re not stout men, you know.”
Christianity took three hundred years to
supplant polytheism. Practical agnosticism has
hardly taken thirty years to supplant the Chris-
tianity of dogmatism, so far as regards the in-
structed and thought! ul men and women of the
day. The old rules only satisfy those who are not
able to think out how unfit they are to be rules
for intelligent beings.
A good name for “ orthodoxy ” would be
“ Kettledrummleism,” from Kottledrummle, who
The Rev. Charles Strong has only to go a
bit farther in penning his own Apologias, and he
will locate himself in the zenith of ecclesiastical
humbug. Qui s'excuse s'accuse. He did nothing
transcendantly masculine. The little inch of viri-
lity he displayed was only remarkable because he
was a clerical Presbyterian. But ho knocks out
the brains of the starveling when he pursues it
with such wind-bladders as this: “Some of the
committees of which I am a member include Jews,
Spiritualists, Unitarians, and Roman Catholics, and
I have received no taint from these men.” Strong,
Strong, there’s a good deal of the mountebank in
you. Now, honour bright, old man! wouldn’t you
take the other end if it were equally odd ?
The rector of an English parish lets his
church-yard out as a grazing ground for sheep.
The Archbishop of Canterbury says the rector has
a right to do this. Acting on this authority, he
had a number of valuable shrubs, placed on graves
by friends of those beneath, torn up, “because
they were poisonous to the sheep.” Tnls is carry-
ing out the Gospel precept, “ Peed my lamb?, feed
my sheep,” with a vengeance. Happily, there is
sufficient grazing ground for sheep in this colony
to prevent the grave-yards being used up yet. By
the time there isn’t, the dead of this generation
will, in the cycle of material changes, probably be
turned info sheep, and so reap the advantage of
such an arrangement when it does come about.
In the meantime, however, we don’t see why—if
the Archbishop is right—the parsons shouldn’t let
out the cemeteries as brickyards The dust of our
fathers ought to make good bricks. And the
churches must have revenue.
A sad calamity has befallen one of the
oldest families of a town on the Westooastof New
Zealand. In a fit of Insanity, one daughter
drowned herself. Another went mad in conse-
quence, and is now in the madhouse. Then Ihe
father died, and the third daughter became Insane.
She was committed, and it was determined to send
her by coach en route for the metropolis. And
now comes in a feature of the affair—the saddest
and worst. Learning that an M.L.C. and others
were proceeding by the proposed coach, the ser-
geant of police asked if they objected to the girl’s
presence—of course, under police surveillance. A
unanimous “ no ” was the answer. Came along the
Rev. Mr. Oswill, a zealous worker for years in the
Looard’s vineyard. His “Master” had herded
with thieves and harlots, and was not defiled. But
our “Chreestian” friend was more particular, and
noisily protested against being obliged to travel
with a mad woman. Then the poor girl had to
and then my dawn will stand revealed?” Alas, for
the dawn, if It is only to come when there is not an
“ oraadhaun ” to see It ?
A series of six sermons is to be preached
at St. Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney, ns “aids to
faith.” The Bishop of Newcastle, the Dean of
Sydney, and the Reverends Warden Sharp, Mervyn
Archdall, R. Taylor, and T. Keramis are the selected
preachers — a union of High, Low and Broad
against the common enemy—Unbelief I The “Low”
ones will show
How man’s inborn vice
Was purged by an innocent sacrifice,
And will with unctuous voices tell
Gracious and comforting news of Hell,
Where sinners with devils In flames must dwell;
While the “ Broad ” ones will explain
How the text was meant
As mere veil and symbol of argument,
Vaster than schoolmen’s competence,
Finer than vulgar human sense;
Yet the text was precious, nay, there wo sought
A joy far deeper than formalists thought;
Always in spirit living in new;
For us the words had a meaning true—
In their literal coarseness ? Certainly not,
But oertalnh something, who shall say what ?
And the “ High ’’ ones will declare
The sole resting-place
To be Catholic majesty, Catholic grace.
By the latest number of the War Cry, we
see that the Harmy is in a bad way. The paper
dismally announces, “ No report from No. 1, Syd-
ney,” and then says:—“Paddington, Friday. Out
again, only a handful of us compared with the
night before, but. never mind, we made as much
noise as we possibly could.” At another meeting:
“ None surrendered, but, by the looks of the
people, many were under conviction. Bless God
tor that.” The subscription for the week is very
feeble, only totalling some two pounds, but It is
evident that Major Sutherland as yet lives in hope.
Here, for instance, are the particulars of one con-
tribution:—“ [To Mr. Sutherland,] Sir,—We have
this day sold rags, bottles, and old brass, for 5s. 6d.
Please place the amount to the Extension Fund.
Eliza and George Stone (Children.) God bless
the children! ” We see that the Harmy now num-
bers amongst its forces “The Hallelujah Sexton,”
“The Converted Jockey,” “Happy Sawney with the
Flag,” “The Converted Fortune-teller (Gipsy
Jones),” “The Happy Welshman,” and “Jehovah
Jenkins.” But, in spite of the presence of these
wa# wont (as are the dogmatic divines of tne
several Protestant sects) to vindicate with great
animation the right of every freeman to worship
God according to ids own conscience, and then (in
the same breath almost) to assert that those who
differed with him on what he defined to lie essen-
tials were certain to be everlastingly damned.
The friends of the Rev. C. Strong are
anxious to justify that temporary alliance of his on
the Sunday question with the leveller Walker.
The latest vindicator urges that his reverence is
following a sublime example. “ Was not Christ the
associate of publicans and sinners?” Thomas, who
had been vociferating “ hear, hear,” was rather
staggered when the vindicator plopped on to this
method of defence, but he kept ins countenance,
and fastened his eyes on that tantalising dawn.
The Dean of Melbourne and Canon Dickin-
son are cock-sure that Mr. Justice Higinbotham’s
lecture will prepare the way for the rejection of
the essential truths of Christianity; and, from their
standpoint, they are perfectly right, .since with
them its essentials are deaneries and canonries,
prebends, incumbencies, parsonages, and the
chronic circulation of the plate, whence (to quote
Dryden)
“ Triumphant plenty with a cheerful grace
Basks in their eyes, and sparkles in their face.”
The oft-quoted lines —
Wherever God erects a house of prayer,
The Devil always builds a chapel there.
And ’twill be found upon examination
The latter has the largest congregation,”
which were trotted out by the Sydney Echo, the }
otuer evening, are from Defoe’s “ True-born i
Englishman.” One of George Herbert’s “Jacula
Prudentum ” was “ No sooner is a temple built to
God, but the devil builds a chapel hard by.” Bur-
ton, in his “Anatomy of Melancholy,” also wrote,
“ Where God hath a temple, the devil will have a
chapel."
The Protestant Bishop of Michigan has
very sensible views aneut the Education question.
He tells the clergy plainly that, however valuable
dogmas, creeds, and catechisms may be, they are
things not to be taught in the public school room;
and that the real trouble Is the neglect of religious
education out of the school, rather than within it.
It is formal or unspiritual Church (he says), rather
than the secular school, that is dwarfing the reli-
gious life of this generation. Whiqh nobody (in
bis senses) <;an deny. i
alight, and be re-incarcerated till a coach passed
along without a clergyman on board. Of such is
the kingdom of—Heaven.
We live and learn. The Rev. Dr. Kelynack
claims that; “The Gosoel has made the unclean
chaste, and the savage pacific; it has stayed ihe
ravages of war, hushed the roll of the death drum,
thrown its shield over woman and made her the
equal of man; it has given sanctity to life, purity
to character, sweetness to the home, and nobleness
to all peoples.” When a thing is worth doing or
saying at all,- it is worth doing or saying well. Let’s
see. Hiuce '53 -just 30 years—England has fought
against Russia, the Sepoys, the Chinese, the Maoris,
the Zulus, tne Boers, the Abyssinians, the Ashan-
tees and others. Prance against Russia, Austria,
Mexico, Germany, the Chinese. New Caledonians,
Malagasy, Tonquinese, etc.: Russia against Prance,
England, Turkey, Sardinia, Poland, Turkey and in
Central Asia: Austria against France, Italy (twice),
Denmark, Prussia, and the lately ceded provinces:
Germany against Denmark, Austria, and France;
and Italy against Russia and Austria (twice). The
Americans spent three or four years cutting each
others, throats, and various Christian countries
scattered over the world, have been hard at it be-
fore and since. Therefore the “ Gospel has hushed
the roll of the death drum.” Kel-lie-knack !
Poor Thomas Walker! When are we
going to see that clear dawn which he heralds with
such fine frenzy from the footlights in Melbourne
every Sunday night? Thomas, with his prophetic
vision fixed on that dawn, is one of the most tell-
ing pictures Melbourne Opera House displays. It
is coming—the dawn is. Hie index finger is pointed
towards it. His sharply-cut features are intently
turned, full-cock, upon it. it must be there, com-
ing up behind that third tier of benches. Follow
the visual ray that streams from his fiery eyes,
follow the torrent of words that eject themselves
from under the sandy moustache, follow the direc-
tion given by the Jerks of his legs below the rather
tight frock-coat —yonder, most certainly, if you
bring your eyes to a focus, you muse spot that
dawn. We did it the other night: we sailed down
those streams and currents, slid along upon the
smooth side of them, as it were, and landed. It
wasn’t so much of a dawn, after all. It was bald-
headed, and carried an ugly lump on a stick, and
now and again sneezed applause at the prophet.
We were disappointed, and could not help saying
that was no dawn. Rut Thomas was equal to the
occasion. He said that was a dawn—a genuine
omadhaun. “ But,” he cried. " away with the
omadbaun, away with the legions of omadhauns,
distinguished soldiers, the movement languishes,
and before long the Major and his staff will (as we
before predicted) be reduced to the ignominious
necessity of joining (they w uld choose this, we
guess) the staffs of cookshops, or wrestling with
wool bales, while the devil has a spell. They must
—despite their two pounds a week—be getting just
a bit full of the business, anyhow, for one par.
says: “The Captain and one of the lasses got
smothered in soot, but, in spite of all the devil may
try to do, we are going to fight our way to vic-
tory.” “General” Booth Is expected out here la
about six weeks, and we suppose that his advent
will suffice, anyway, to make the contributions
roll in; yet It would seem that things are not over
bright at home, for we road in his own paper:
“ Aldershot.— Some folks say the Army Is
dead, but we are going up/’ &c. The Gen-
eral is stated, anyhow, to be able to speak
with eloquence, and without mangling the
Queen’s English. Yet hlsown War Cry is. curious
to say, hardly a better sample of syntax than that
published by Sutherland, Reynolds, and Co., who
cannot positively, on the platform, construct a
single sentence correctly. It Is a significant fact
In connection with Australia that everything—
political, religious, and dramatic—that sails over
can get any quantity of money out of It. Organ-
grinders, after a few short seasons here, have re-
turned home, and are now Counts In their own
country ; a man with a Punch-and-Judy, whose
show was “ guyed ” In London and the proprietor
of which starved in the country, brought his
ragged puppets out here, and a few years ago went
home with a large fortune, and Is now a burly
Leicestershire squire who rides to hounds. And
how haven’t ministers of all denominations
scooped It In I Dr. Somerville, for Instance,
preached three times a day to enormous
audiences, used to make a collection every
time, and lived with his son (who was wont
in a quavering voice to lead the singing) in a
gorgeous manner at the Royal Hotel. Well, the
rev. gentleman must have got some thousands of
pounds, yet no one ever asked him, or did he
volunteer any announcement of where It was to
go to. Chinlquy was to build “ Colleges for con-
verted priests/’ but It Is not known that any
have ever been erected. We have heard “Minis-
ters of the Gospel” lecture on Sunday at the
theatres, “ the proceeds to form the neucleus of an
anti-spiritualistic fund;” but no such fund has
does, or ever will exist. General Booth says that the
moneys he collects will go towards enlarging the
operations of the array. That means to bring out
more beetle-browed howlers, buy more drums and
brass instruments, and Hood the country with
War Cry literature. The General, after all
see, does let you look a little way down hl« , <I? u
scope; and for this, alone, we should almost,
disposed to lavish on him, If not a tin-tac- ntil ee
a trousor-button. at lea «t
• •
The Hon. Alexander Stuart played th
“ grand-old-man ” on a recent Sunday evening *
Summer Hill Anglican Church, reading
Stayers, lessons, and sermons in fine disttn *
oric, the parson being sick....At St. Matthw
Church, Mercer’s hymn-book has just been
planted by Sir Arthur Sullivan’s versIon-wW&
change has much annoyed a certain class of sent
holders. On a recent Sunday, one old gentleman
was so thoroughly enraged with the alteration
that on the words “ Jesu, son of Mary, hear
being given out, he instantly left the sacred edifb*.
never, never to return.
* * *
For unadulterated lying commend us to
the Missionary. At the Mild may Park Conferenrn
which came off in t’ould countree last June tho
ch ilrman told of a young Kaffir woman In whose
hands a New Testament had been placed, and who
as she read it wept. “Why are you weeping ?”
was asked. And her tears still flowed but Dr l
sently she said, “I could not but weep as I thought
of ray mother. She died without ever having Hns
a Bible in her hands, without ever having heard of
Jesus. Why did you not come sooner that sh«
raglht have heard.’'.... Bne
They are a cool lot up at Bourke. And
this, mind you, is considerably to their credit be
cause It is no joke to keep cool in Bourke. p er '
haps this explains why a man was discovered not
long ago wading up to his waist in the river, look
ing for a hole deep enough to “ do for himself” in"
He did for himself. We can quite understand a
man coming to the conclusion that he can keen
cooler as a corpse than in any other fashion, but
we think he is rather overrating his chances in
imagining that he is going to have a cooler time In
the next world after navinff lived in Bourke. \v e
begin to believe, after hearing of so many suicides
in it, that the principal use of the river Darling is
to provide a means for the people living on its
banks to put themselves out of misery. “The
Darling—a pleasant river for drowning in.” No
school geography published in future wiU be com-
plete without this sentence.
The law of Queensland requires a China-
man to own a wife, and to have put in two years'
residence before he can claim his naturallzatiou
ticket. The Chinkles fulfil the latter clause to the
letter, but it is rumoured they run the rule over
the first lot by borrowing each other's wives for
stated periods. “ For ways that are dark,” etc.
A ladv lawyer in the States threw a glass
of water In the face of the Judge because he
would not allow her to defend a case. Judging bv
such examples as this, wo don’t want any lady-
lawyers here. The gentler sex can throw tumblers
enough at home without allowing them to bom-
bard the Bench. We speak feelingly. There is
nothing so sure, not even Death, as the aim of an
enraged woman,
A Melbourne evening paper, in its second
Issue after the Mayor’s ball, said: “One of our lady
contributors taking notes in the gallery, some dis-
tance away, mistook another lady of the vice-regal
party for Lady a ormanby, who was absent from
the ball.” Now, we thought It was only the im-
pressionable pressman who was subject to suen
mistakes. We don’t know what valid excuse the
lady—No; that’s notit—the presswo No; we re
out of it again. We’ll take breath, and have an-
other try. We don’t know what valid excuse tne
Hang it! Well, we’ll say the Herald— for tnar
means the same thing—can give. The above ex-
cuse is, it is needless to say, too thin. Gin can nave
no temptations for her. It looks, Indeed, as it at
the time the ball was going on she was wilruuy
lying—In bed. Well, It was after.
Now is the winter of our discontent. The
editor of the Melbourne Herald, In advising a
local Romeo to marry his Juliet, appends a ratner
mysterious note. He says that any man getting
married “ should Insure his life.” Let us
mystery, and stare a moment at It. Does the euiw
know that Juliet ? Evidently, no. He may f
another that set him into that run of thought, nu
he’s out of Romeo’s camp altogether.
more, he says “any man.” That’s
and goes clean crack at the World, whose pr -
prletor has just become a Benedick. Ha, o
world I Is there a hint there ? Hold I we have •
Romeo said he had £150 spared, and was going y
buy a piano. Therefore, the editor said “ j
man;” therefore, he spoke e<x-cathedra-hke to *
World; therefore, he urged the taking .
life policy 1 Who’ll say there’s no love In a new
paper office after that ?
No health with ipaotive liver and urinary
organs. Take Hop Bitters. See.
THE MANLY WILD-FLOWER SHOW,
Gather wild flowers, &c., by all means, and arrange them in vases. But look out that there are no cocoons and things to hatch out, or
you’ll perhaps have a demented Biddy on your hands, as we had last season.


Splendid acceptances have been received
for the N.Z. Cup. Forty-two now remain in.
Tasman and Matanaka are stili first favourites,
A grenadier, on guard at Somerset House,
London, was accosted by alady—attractive, richly-
dressed, wealthy, and old. She called him 4 ‘ sweet-
heart,” and having kissed him. passed a £50 note
into his hand. She told him what a plucky fellow
he was in the Egyptian and dynamite crises, and
would have told him more, but that a matter-of-
fact policeman (these beggars always turn up when
they’re least required) told her to 44 get out,” or
he’d 44 run her in.” She got out (of the sentry-box',
and, throwing back kisses to the lucky guardsman,
passed into the night air. She haunts the place
now, and chats familiarly with the sentry, but (the
London paper puts it delicately) 44 as he is changed
every day, the lady’s passion was clearly regimental
rather than individual.”
The devices to get out of Paris during the
time when those terrible Prussians had blocked
every approach, were ingenious, but they were
commonplace compai-ed with those employed to
carry news to the unfortunates still struggling for
the honour of La grande Nation. Men and women
aimlessly wandering about were picked up and
searched by German patrols. The finding of secret
information upon them meant a short shrift.
There was no aiming at ceremony—it wasall in the
directionof the heart and lungs. And yet volumin-
ous despatches were carried—some in shoe-soles,
others in hollow cigars, and more in walking sticks
and umbrella handles. Hollow teeth, packets of
cigarette papers, and ivory balls carried in the
mouth (to be swallowed on emergency), supplied
hiding places for microscopical iinformation.
Ladies, with important information transcribed
upon the interior of their gloves, sometimes passed
through the enemy’s lines. Perhaps the most in-
genious of all methods was that of removing the
bone handle of a pocket-knife, inserting the des-
patch in the vacancy and neatly soldering it again.
The feelings of the person who carried this, as he
saw the stolid Prussian sergeant, open the blades
and look inquiringly tor something he couldn’t
find, can only be compared to thoseof John C.M.G,
when he heard the verdict.
The Lady Godiva procession was lately re-
vived in Coventry with great success. If it was
anything like the original ride, it must have paid
better than a church bazaar.
The matutinal sensation at Adelaide now
is to discover how many of one's acquaintances
are among the published list of insolvents.
A number of sign-boards, on the station
of a well-known squatter at Lake George, bear the
following notice painted in red letters “ Tres-
passers on this run will bo prosecuted. No joke,
oy G .” Fact.
We believe in the Deceased Wife’s Sister
Bill as having some merit. But we don’t believe
in it like Mr. Sullivan, of Albury, who was lately
ordered to pay 7s. a week for the suppost of the
illegitimate child of himself and his wife’s sister.
We certainly think the wife should be allowed to
die first. But, then, we were always straight-laced.
The Jewish Times says that Jews in Russia,
who keep Christians as " domestic servants, are
fined dive roubles daily. Well, the Hebrews out
here make up for this. We know Christians who
are not only their servants but their slaves, and
these Christians have to pay through the nose—
which is another way of saying through the Jews
—for the privilege.
Thady O’Kane is a candidate for Charters
Towers (Q.) at the next election. There seems to
be as much antipathy to him amongst certain
cliques up there as though he were the very devil
in person, and, seeing it is Charters Towers, pro-
bably more. But he is too strong-fibred a man not
to make a good fight for success. Some .able men
are wanted in the Queensland Parliament. They
have been wanted a long time.
41 1 have a crushed hand,” said the prisoner,
44 and I cannot do any work, and I have no money.”
He was 44 up ” for not supporting his children.
44 You will be released when you pay up,” replied
his worship. 44 But I might stay there all my life,
your worship, because I cannot pay up.” 44 No.
you can only stay there for twelvq months,” said
the Bench. This was not in Siam, but in the
Sydney Central Police Court. It shows how far
ahead we are of other people. A man can support
himself but not his children, so the authorities de-
termine to support both!
While others believed him, we doubted.
And our suspicions were not unfounded—he has
turned out to be an 44 informer.” We allude to
Mr. Redmond. Not only is he a traitor to his
country, but to his creed. He has 44 informed ” an
44 Orange ” woman that he loved her, and she trusts
him. Pretending to travel in the interests of the
Land League, he is about starting a league of his
own in this land. Not having seen the lady, we
cannot say which is likely to be No. 1 three months
after the ceremony.
John Davies still appears at public gather-
ings. ____
Ananias speaks again per cablegram
“ London, August 11.—The Tbisxt Times says that
New South Wales has Consented to receive and
protect the Irish ‘ approvers.’ ” For length,
breadth, heighth, depth, and general massiveness,
this lie takes the cake from all-comers.
Daniel Murphy, of Nevada, is dead. This
fact would not be of enthralling interest only that
he happened t > be the biggest land-shark in the
world. At his death he owned 300,000 acres in
Nevada, 6,000,000 acres in Durango, and nearly the
same quantity in Arizona and Califox-uia Now a
ladleful of clay fills his mouth. The epitaph on
Alexander of Macedon would not be unsuitable to
ibis smaller shark: —
“A little spot sufficeth him whom not sufficed
all;
The small is now as great to him as once the
great was small.”
What was wrong at Sunbury Lunatic
Asylum? Well, this is what the lunatics say:—
Patients, over 500; no exercise yard for them;
never get a hot dinner; eight of them have to use
t he same bath-water; room they sit in is bitterly cold
in winter; cows die of starvation; piggei-ies unclean;
garden undrained; patients (poor patients) sup-
posed to be looked over by some thirty-four male
and female attendants, who, instead of being sober,
humane, industrious, and truthful, drink persis-
tently, systematically disobey orders, and are
always being fined or degraded. Band wick, ahoy!
A “ Roman Catholic brass band ” is being
formed in a country hamlet. The local Thundereh
says:—“The Artillery Band play extremely well
already; for expression and finish they would be
hard to beat in the colonies.” We quite believe
this, for we know the band. But • he writer never
saw them at their best as we did. The “ expres-
sions” in their faces and the rolling out of their
mouths, the night they played for three hours,
and then found no sandwiches or beer, and the
“ finish ” they put on the tucker, when it was at
last supplied'them, will never be forgotten by us.
Yes! tor expression and finish we cun recommend
this bund.
Ax-abi Pasha is the man who knows how to
deal with tx-adesraan. When a Ceylon butcher
charged him more for his meat than he thought
just, he sent for the butcher and beat him with a
stick till the chax-ge was reduced 60 per cent. We
know men who can manage things better oven
than Ax-abi, though. They let the butcher charge
just what ho likes, as long as he likes to charge.
Then, when he is tired of chax-ging without getting
paid, they quarrel with him about his religious
views, or the shape of his head, and quit that part
of the country in disgust. Arabi Pasha would
never have been lighting with butchers in Ceylon
if he had had such genius as this.
There’s a man on the Wild River, named
Hogsflesh, and he advertises for “ a servant that
doesn’t drink.” Probably all his previous servants
took to drink as soon as they learned their master’s
name.
If the Shroud reporters were only half as
full of beef as their bosses are of enterprise, there’d
be a meaty glow about them to which their faces
have long been strangers. They have got, it seems,
two new contributors—one called “ Snapdragon,”
and the other “ Pyn.”, Both write verse. Here is
a sample of “ Snapdragon
“ Little Johnny Ching Chong
Comes across the sea,
Singing little sing song,
4 Wellee goodee mee. ”
Here is a bit of “ Pyn ” :—
“ A literary man was he,
His books, which were his hobby,
Quite filled his house right down from the
Attics e’en to the lobby.”
We have, it has been thought, at times, evinced a
disposition to join the tombstone cackle in a laugh
at our contemporary. This may be so, but now
that the opportunity occurs, we feel we should be
wanting in ordinary journalistic esprit de corps
did we not heartily congratulate the Shroud on
having secured these brilliant geniuses. It is not
often we see ballad verse that has both the ring of
Bon Gaultier and the humour of Gilbert.
“ Were New Guinea annexed, Great
Britain, through Australia, would be responsible
through her daughter to humanity for proper
treatment of the natives.” So says the Rum.
Britain does not want New Guinea—some people in
Australia seem to do so. English statesmen know
the tolly of adding fresh responsibilities to their
already long list—particularly when the fresh ones
are of no possible use to the mother country. As
for being “responsible through her daughter to
humanity,” this is one of those high-sounding
phrases which really moan nothing. Sir Julius
Vogel, while advocating the annexation, gives a
neat “ back-hander ” to those who expect England
to go to a lot of trouble and expense—added to the
chance of perpetrating an “unfriendly” act to-
wards a neighbouring power—merely to please
them. Sir Julius advises the Imperial authorities
not to move further in the matter of annexation
till a thorough understanding is come to regarding
the colonial contribution towards the expense.
But the present Government needed no such re-
minder. The Fiji business is still fresh in their
memory. “ Responsible through her daughter to
humanity,” forsooth ! Long before “humanity”
thought there was anything reprehensible oc-
curring, half the niggers would have disap-
peared before Queensland rifles, religion, andrum,
and half the remainder would be learning civiliza-
tion on Queensland augur plantations.
Mr. Mealy’s Erysipelas.
His name is not really Mealy, but we
christen him this because Mealy happens to be so
thoroughly unlike his real name, that neither
Charles Bright nor the Reverend Spicer could pre-
tend that it agreed with his genesis or was in any
sense a personal revelation. He occupies a re-
sponsible position in a Government department*
and draws a good salary. His duties largely con-
sist in visiting a neighbouring hotel: but rumour
reports that when saber. Mealy is worth all the
money he earns. If Axis qualification bo allowed,
he docs not earn much. Mealy, after lengthened
periods of imbibition, lately slumbered peacefully
in his official arm-chair. Slumber has a soothing
effect, and he was considerably soothed. It be-
came evident to his subordinates that, although
barely lunch-time, he had become mixed on the
subject of the flight of hours, and fancied himself
securely in the family bed. Enter a young
doctor to. knofr wby his last account
for free vaccination had not been passed.
Then follow envious murmurs and the expression
of clerkly indignation that because he bosses the
department, and his credit is good at “ the Royal,”
he should be allowed to till time up so pleasantly.
The doctor, always ready for a joke at the expense
of a highly respectable fraud, proposes a little
plot, and having obtained cordial support and pro-
mises of immediate execution, departs. Soon the
record clerk might be observed dexterously
ti-ansferrlng a sufficient quantity of Judson’s crim-
son dye to the nose of Ins superior sleeper. [Am-
biguous.—Bo. B.] The effect was brilliant. Judson's
dyes soon dry when applied to the epidermis. A
decent interval being allowed, came the process of
judicious awake ing. Careful dn pping of heavy
books, ruler solos, skilful cooeys, loud talking, and
Mealy gradually sat up, rubbed his eyes, and as-
sumed a gratified expression of countenance to
notice that his forty winks had produced no inter-
mission of that industry on the part of those under
his control for which the department is so cele-
brated. “I beg your pardon, Mr. Mealy,” said
a clerk, carelessly sauntering near, “but Dr.
Caper was in just now to complain that his
last vaccination fees wore not passed, and hap-
pening to see you had dropped asleep, he
observed that it was highly dangerous for
any person suffering from your complaint to
remain so long in a draught.” “My complaint?
What do you mean ? There’s nothing the matter
with me! What did ho say my complaint was ?’
“ Erysipelas, sir.” “ Ery— bosh! bosh! These doc-
tors arc perfect humbugs—perfect humbugs!”
and Mealy banged his list on the table with such
violence us to bring another clerk on the scene.
“ Don’t you think, sir,” said the new arrival,
“ thsit you’d better go home and lie up for a tew
•lays? I remember, when I had erysipelas, Caper
kept me a month in bed.” “Eh? What? Erysi-
pelas? Rot!" “ We’ve noticed it gradually com-
ing on, sir, but it seems to bo much worse to-day.
P rhaps the draught .” “The draught ? What’s
that to do with mcV “ Well, I know, sir,” from
No. 3, “a draught increased the danger with me;
and, unfortunately, you have it in a very bad
place—the nose.” “The nose? Eh? What? My
nc se ?” “ Look in the glass, sir; it seems to be get-
ting worse every moment.” Mealy lost no further
time, but looked, and fell back appalled. It was
too true! though. “ You’ve been playing
up larks, you youcg rascajs, while I was asleep—
painting me instead of your plans.” Deprecatory
shakes of the head with solemn faces conveyed
denial as intended. “ I'll tx-y and wash it off, any-
how.” “ Better not, sir; you shouldn’t wet erysipe-
las; washing makes it worse.” But Mealy has a hard
bead, and could not. well do less than assure him-
self that he was not the victim of water-colour.
There is no shifting Judson's dye by ordinary
meiyxs—a fact of which the clerks wore well aware,
though during the wild attempt they passed a
particularly bad live minutes. “Get down to Dr.
Caper, sir, os quickly as possible, and away home
afterwards,” advised his chief tormentor. Away
Mealy went, thoroughly ashamed of his nose, and
simulating most gently an o thodox use of a ker-
chief about fifty times duiing the very short walk.
Of course the doctor was at home. “ H’m, yes,
erysipelas. Thought so when seeing you just how
at the office. Rather bad attack. Why on earth
did you go to sleep in a draught?” Mealy was now
thoroughly convinced, and dreadfully alarmed.
“ Is it dangerous ? Shall I be laid up long ? Am I
likely to recover ? Thank heaven, I've made my
will." “Well, you know, all that depends on the
subject. You remember poor Andrews? Ery-
sipelas killed him— most interesting case; but his
was in the forehead, yours is not. Ah, we
shall pull thx-ough, 1 dare say. But get home
quickly, cover your face with flour, just
range round in a warm room, drink nothing,
and so on. I’ll call and see you to-mox - row morn-
ing. Ta! ta!” Fortunately, as ovex-ybody well
kxiew, Mealy is a bachelor without a relative in the
place, so that nobody was alarmed or Inconveni-
enced by his lying Up for a few days as he did. He
reclined in state in a blue dressing-gown, on a
sofa, while his housekeeper pampered him with
the fat of the land, and dredged flour on his nose
every half-hour. The doctor called regularly, had
a lively chat, and enjoyed a glass of capital wine.
This continued for three weeks, when Mealy was
pronounced cured, and resumed his departmental
duties. Up to this day he talks learnedly on the
subject of erysipelas, and gives his experience of
its effects on the naso-cranial convolutions and the
grey matter in the left hemisphere of the brain.
It was only last week that he felt puzzled when,
after reminding Dr. Caper that the account for
attendances duiing that frightful attack of ery-
sipelas had not been received, the doctor observed,
with a remark ibly broad smile, that the account
was already settlei on the score of their long-
established fi’iendship.
O’Donnell took Oarey didn't laud alive.
We notice that many people spell the
synonym for prison thus: “Goal.” Perhaps it’s
because in this country the gaol is the goal.
When two journalists werein Darlinghurst
gaol for libel, the chief warder came round one
morning and enquired whether they were comfort-
able. One of the pair replied, “Yes, except that
his pillow was rather harder than he liked.” “ Of
course.” rejoined the official, who was an Irishman,
“ but that’s because you lay the softest part of your
body on it.”
Burragorang is points ahead of any other
district. They’ve got a somnambulist there now.
It is a lady. Three o'clock in the morning is her
usual time for starting, and from that till daylight
she appears to enjoy herself. There is only one
real cure for somnambulism —marriage: although
even this has failed in some eases, especially with
male sleep-walkers, some of whom relapse into
their old habits after a time.
Hunter, the man who shot the sentry at
the Paddington Barracks lately, is said to have
acted under the delusion that he was authorised
to shed blood in defence of his religion. He got
twelve months for this. If this is justice, then wo
could suggest, to make the thing logical, that the
beatified bones of two-thirds of our saints and
martyrs be exhumed, and set for twelve months in
the place of our most zealous prelates and
E teachers. Also, that the said prelates and preachers
e put for twelve months in place of tne bones.
It this wore done, we might then have some of
that peace which the Christian religion was sup-
Eosed, by another popular delusion, to have
rought to men.
On the 22nd August, 1840, the transpor-
tation of criminals to the Australian colonies was
reluctantly stopped by the British Government. It
is passing strange that forty-three years after, in
the same month —almost on the same day—an
underhand < ttempt was made to re-open the old
business. Nothing points more clearly to the
march of progress. In those days Austin'A was
considered only good enough for pickpockets —now
she is worthy of assassins. Hang up our cantrers
on the outward wans, the cry is sfcill they come—
but “ not if we know it.”
Ta-ra-la.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
CHAPTER I.
“ Isn't it to-day you expect the French tutor ?”
asked Mrs. Flockum, as old Flockum was supping
f,ig toddy after dinner in the sitting-room. “ I’m
go glad. George learned nothing to speak of at
that Grammar School; and, besides, Lucinda and
Angela can get lessons. French is an indispensable
language.”
“So they say,” assented the old man; “and I
picked an out-and-out Frenchy when I was at it.
I want a fellow to shape George. He’s now sixteen
—a year younger than La—but he’s a Mohawk. If
pat Doyle that I ha.i here had behaved himself, he
would have made a hand of the idiot.”
“I wish I had seen him,” said Mrs. Flockum.
“He was only lyjre a fortnight, and I never got a
look at him. You kicked him out before I had a
chance."
“Not before it was time,” cried the old man,
tartly. “To catch him with his arm round Lu’s
neck was enough. But he was a smart fellow other
ways, only he didn’t know French. I think he wa s
an actor once.”
“Ta-ra-la, ta-ra-la, ta-ra-la, combien, parlez-
vous, je sais, il est, ta-ra-la, combien!”
“ My gracious!” cried Mrs. Flockum, running to
Hie window. “Who’s that?” Old Flockum, who
was near-sighted, puckered his brows, and, looking
out, said, “That’s him, by jingo! That’s Frenchy!"
“Ta-ra-la, ta-ra-la!” yelled a little man, sliding
down over the tail of a tall grey horse. He had a
tierce moustache, the points of which stood straight
oU t, a foot on either side of his mouth, and his
whole face was densely timbered with raven black
whiskers. “Ta-ra-la, ta-ra-la!” he yelled, still
sliding between the hind legs of the patient steed.
“Ha, ha!” laughed Mrs. Flockum. “Look how
he's getting off. Is that the French way? ”
“By jingo, he’ll get his head kicked off! ” cried
the old man, running to the verandah.
“Ta-ra-la, ta-ra-la, combien, que voulez vous, je
guis, ta-ra-la ! ”
“ You crimson donkey, what in thunder are you
at?” cried Flockum, as the horse gave a sudden
turn and threw the little man on his back on the
travel. Like a roley-poley, the little man rolled
over and over, over and ovei', until he reached a
margin of gx-ass, still yelling, “ ta-ra-la, ta-ra-la,
combien, ici on parle, ta-ra-la! ”
Flockum ran, as well as he could, to pick the
stranger up. but just as he got alongside, the little
man jumped to his feet, and nourishing a kid glove
in the air, yelled, “ Ta-ra-la, ta-ra-la, je suis tooter,
ta-ra-la!” Then, with a deferential bow, and a
back kick of his left leg, he added, “ Vous is Flock-
um, Mistair Flockum of Drunk Station, je tinks.”
“ Yes, I’m Flockum. This is Bark Trunk Station.
I suppose you’re the French tutor that wrote to
me from Townsville. Upon ray conscience, you’re
a rum-looking lad. What's this your name is ? I
wasn’t able to make it out so as to pronounce it.”
Bv this time the tutor had taken out a pocket-
book, and he now handed over Flock urn’s letter of
engagement, with some French documents, and his
own card, on which was engraved the words “ M.
Hungrois Talleygrand De llummlcove Dacca,
French Tutor and Linguist.”
“Ta-ra-la!” said the man, as old Flockum held
the card to the tip of his nose.
“Come along, Baccy,” said Flockum, leading the
little man to a bedroom, and pointing out the
lavatory arrangements. “ You’ll feel fresh after a
wash, and then we can have a pitch.” And old
Flockum retux-ned to the sitting room.
The tears were streaming down Mrs. Flockum's
face. She had seen and heard all that passed, and
could not speak through laughter.
“I’m darned,” said Flockum, “but he’s the
oddest cove 1 ever set eyes on. He’s a Frenchy,
and no mistake. He hardly knows a word of Kng-
lish; but it’s all the better. The young ones will
get a true hang of the lingo.”
“ Baccy,” ho cried, going to the bedx-oom after a
while, as the tutor seemed to be staying a rather
long time. But the tutor was covei'ed up in the
blankets and fast asleep.
CHAPTER II.
Two hours after, there was mild moonlight in
tie shrubbery that lay to the left wing of the
bouse, and two lovers were wnispering earnestly.
“Oh, Pat,” said Lucinda, “Pa will be frightfully
angry if he finds it out I don't mind ma so much,
but if you had heal'd how pa swore the day he
sent you away.”
“ Never mind, me darlint,” said Pat. “I’ll have
everything arranged in another fortnight. Only
he dropped'on to us when he did we’d a been off
be this, an’ away where no wan wud disthurb us.
Don’t fret, machree; I’m fit to wark for me own
pet, an’, as the moon is shinin’ over me head, 1
swear it’s only yexself I’m afther, me swate darlint,
Lul”
“Oh, dearest Pat .”
But just then a step was heard coming from the
verandah, and Lu disappeared round the back way
and got safely into the house.
CHAPTER HI.
“Ta-ra-la, ta-ra-la!” cried the tutor, sitting
sideways on a chair in the sitting-room, while
Mrs. Flockum and the old man were plying him
with questions of a miscellaneous sort, seeking in
vain to establish a level basis of intelligibility. Old
Flockum had become unconsciously affected with
the “Ta-ra-la,” and, when Mrs. Flockum sug-
gested that this was a good time to introduce
the young people to her tutor, he left the room
with “Ta-ra-la” on his lips.
Soon he returned with the long, lanky, red-
headed Master Flockum, and the pouting, rosy
Misses Flockum.
“Geox-ge,” said the old man, “this is Hungry
Baccy. Yer to mind what ho tells ye, and learn as
much as ye can. And, Baccy, this is Miss Flockum,
and this is Miss Angela Flockum. Now I’ll want ye
to be strict with them. Make them mind their
books, and take no gammon - ”
“Ta-ra-la ! ” cried the tutor.
“ Miss Flockum—Lu we call her—knows a bit of
French already, but I want her well polished. So
ye’ll begin right off in the morning, and spend
most of your time with Lu. Mind, now,”
“Tarra-la !” cried the tutor. “ Je suis, combien,
ta-ra-la.”
And at the close of the interview the old man
also said “ Ta-ra-la.”
CHAPTER IV.
“Jerusalem I” said lanky George, with a whistle,
to his sister, Angela, when they left the study-
room next morning, “ did you ever see such a guy!
I don’t know a blessed word he says. Lu. seems to
know a bit. Hokey !”
“How do ye like Baccy?” asked Flockum, a few
days after. “ Ye’ll get used to him after a while.
Ye mustn’t let him see ye laughing. Yes; I’m
glad he’s attending to Lu. That’s what I told him.”
And lanky George puckex - ed his lips for a whistle,
but didn’t do it. He only said, “ Ta-ra-la ! ”
chapter v.
“Now, me darlint, now, me jewel, here in the
shrubbery again, I offer ye me heart. Ye can be
sure o’ yer own Pat now. I thought 1 had lost ye
for ivver. when I left ye thon toime, but like the
dove cornin’ back to the ark, I found ye out, an’
have let ye see that I’xh yer own true Pat. Lift
yer mouth, me swate love. The horses is ready in
the paddock beyant, an’ whin they’re asleep, after
two horn's more, slidher out, an’ you am me ’ll
lave Bark Trunk for ivver.”
“Oh, Pat!”
“ Arrah Lu! ”
CHAPTER VI.
“Where’s Lu?” asked Mrs. Flockum, at the
breakfast table.
“ Whex-e’s Ta-ra-la ? ” asked old Flockum.
Mrs. Flockum went to her daughter’s room, and
came back with her eyes very large. Old Flockum
went to rouse the tutor. Mrs. Flockum tore open
the cover of a letter and read:
“ My dearest mamma, pardon your own Lu. I
have gone with Pat Doyle to be married at Plum-
town.”
And old Flockum pi-osently returned with a
letter found on the tutor’s table, and opening it,
read:
“Your daughter’s all right. I’ll work for her like a
man. Ye’ll find my whiskers behind the door.
Your son-in-law, Pat Doyle.”
Lanky Geox-ge was the first to break the con-
sternation. He whistled long and low, and then
said “Ta-x-a-la!” Then old Flockum jumped into
the middle of the floor, and such a mixture of
cups, saucers, and bad English was never on Bark
Trunk station befox-e.
MR. E. T. ROLAND'S ROYAL HOTEL, SPRING WOOD.


PROSPECTUS
OF THE
CHARTERS TOWERS CONSOLS
Gold MiningCompany
(QTJE3E3^rSX--^.^TE))-
CAPITAL, £24,000, IN SIXTY SHARES OF £400 EACH.
This virtually is a PRIVATE COMPANY or SYNDICATE, formed for the purpose of purchasing POUR distinct GOLD MINES,
together with Machinery, at Cha» ters Towers, Queensland. Immediately the sixty shares arc taken up, the subscribers will
re-form into a Limited Liability Company of £60,000, in £1 shares. 48,000 shires, fully paid up, will be assigned to the
original Shareholders; £4000 cash retained for working expenses ; and the balance of 12,000 shares will form a reserve—to he
offered to the public at 20s. per share, at such intervals as the directors may deem fit.
Provisional Directors:
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B.
Hon. W. A. BRODRIBB, M.L.C.
HUGH GEORGE, Esq.
GEO. C. LOUGHNAN, Esq., M.L.A.
Sir PATRICK JENNINGS, K.C.M.G.
Hon. H. E. KING, M.UA. (Speaker Queensland Parliament)
Captain W. H. ELDREI), (Consul-General, Chili)
JOHN HIGGINS, Esq.
Solicitor:
J. ARTHUR DOWLING, Esq., Hunter-street.
THIS COMPANY is formed for the purpose of working, under a perfect system of practical management, the well-known
Gold Mines, known as
THE GREAT BRITAIN,
THE YOUNG ST. PATRICK,
THE NORTH AUSTRALIAN,
THE WASHINGTON,
SITUATE AT
CHARTERS TOWERS, NORTH QUEENSLAND.
Perhaps no part of Australia possesses such claim to public attention for its metalliferous wealth as
Northern Queensland, and yet, as a matter of fact, its wonderful mineral resources have been hitherto
comparatively unknown to those resident in the Souther i Colonies. Foreign capital being unobtain-
able the necessary slow development of the many goldfleids was undertaken by the working miners,
who, with only limited means at command, plodded on year after year, confining themselves solely to
surface working—Improvidently squandering without tbought of provision for future operations, and
abandoning rich permanent reefs immediately the water level was reached and steam machinery abso-
lutely a necessity. And yet in the face of this < areless system of working, with the crudest of ap-
pliances, most astonishing results have already been obtained. Charters Towers, the most important
of all Queensland goldfields, is situated 80 miles from Townsville, and was discovered by Messrs. Hugh
Mosman, George E. Clarke, and 8, Fraser, in January, 1873. The prospectors, after due consideration,
marked off the prospecting claims “North Australian,” “General Wyndham,” and “Washington.”
Since that period nearly
One Million Ounces off Gold
have been taken from Charters Towers, which bids fair to become the premier goldflelJ of Aus-
'' al The eminent geologist, the Rev. J. E. TENISON-WOODS, F.G.S., F.L.A., in a recent report, writes
ns "follows I -- *
“To enumerate all the mineral wealth of Queensland would make a long list. I can only repeat
what I have said previously, that those mines already known are permanent and of immense value,
the true extent of which is not even guessed as yet; and of the probabilities of mines still to be
QUEENSLAND HAS A MORE REASONABLE PROSPECT THAN ANY PART OP AUSTRALIA.”
A CLEAR UNVARNISHED DESCRIPTION OF EACH MINE IS HERE GIVEN,
Supported by
RELIABLE AND TRUSTWORTHY REPORTS
THE GREAT BRITAIN.
Lease, No. 338. Area, six acres.—This property takes the form of a small mountain, itself a perfect
mass of gold-bearing reefs. The ground is soft, and fairly impregnated with the precious metal. The
reefs in ft are of groat thickness, one in particular being opened out for 14 feet. A deep shaft (85 feet
vertical) has recently bottomed on a mundlc reef, indicating by late assay 5ioz. to the ton. 1540 tons of
top stone (surfacing*, Ae.) have been crushed for a yield of 1207oz. gold. This average will give magni-
ficent returns, ns 1000 per month could be put through at an expense for raising and crushing of 15s. per
ton. The MACHINERY QQ0«iet6 Of a nowly-imported 12 h p. Lluytou find Shuttleworth engine, lifting
and pumping gear.
Mr. ROBERT L. JACK, F.G.S., F.R.G.S., Government Geological Surveyor for Queensland, in hifl
report to the Minister for Mines, says:—
“ I visited the workings in the ‘ Great Britain ’ Mine, which were being opened up by owners who
have recently taken possession. They were working at a depth of about 60 feet. The underlie or hade
is about 60 degrees. The country is slate, which to the depth reached in the mine weathers red, and
breaks up in small angular pieces, so that to distinguish between bedding, cleavage, and joint planes is
almost impossible. The hanging-wall ,s distinct, but the foot-wall is never certain. The reef is at least
seven feet wide, and contains a good deal of quartz (showing a little mundic and some peroxide of iron)
scattered through a ‘gangue ’ ot slate or debris. Gnashings from the mine have yielded 3oz. Tdwt. to
the ton.”
The report of Mr. NORMAN TAYLOR, late Field Geologist of Victoria, is appended:—
“‘Great Britain.’—This lease of 6 acres lies to the northward of the town, on a tributary of the
Sandy Creek. The eonmtry here is metamorphic slate. Near the south-east corner, the “Bandol
Hope ’ Reef comes in with e nearly vertical dip and a strike of the E. 15‘ S. On the south-west side oi
the claim is the ‘ Great Britain ’ Reef, 7 feet thick, dipping northerly at an angle of 45'. Below it ap-
pears as if the reef had opened since its formation, and another reef been formed, there being two reels
with a slioken-side (friction face' llucan vein showing vertical strike between them, and dipping B. o »■
at an angle of 33'. The ‘ Rose, Shamrock, and Thistle ’ Reef, on the north side of the claim, passes
through it. The hill is covered with quartz, from which prospects can be easily obtained anywhere.
The above reefs must junction below, and will probably be rich then. The whole hill, in (act, should,
in my opinion, be put through the battery, and would be found to yield good returns.”
The General Mining Manager, Mr. SAMUEL J. PEEK, in his last report upon the “Great Britain”
Lease, writes as follows: —
"The reef is very large. At 160 feet on the underlie the lode widens out to 12 feet, and yield. 8 fro®
7 dwt. to 23dwt. per ton, and, I believe, increases in size and richness as sunk upon. To work the b r ,
Britain ’ Reef to best advantage a battery should be erected on the ground, which could be easily at-
tached to the new 13 h.p. Clayton and Shuttleworth’s engine, on the lease. The old underlie is being
cut down to make room for a double truck way and pump. A very good set of double winding gear
and pump in course of erection. This mine is thought very highly or on the field, and promises to turn
out well/”
Mr. HUGH MOSMAN, one of the original discoverers of Charters Towers Goldfield, in reporting on
this property, writes as follows:—
“This is a small bill, composed ot a mass of gold-bearing reefs in slate. This mine, to pay well,
should have a crushing plant erected as near as possible to the reefs, where it is assumed sufficient wai
can be obtained for same. The ground is easily worked, and orushings have yielded hitherto from to
to i oz. to the ton of stoue.


THE YOUNG ST. PATRICK.
Lease No. 303. Area, 8a. 2r. 9J^p.—This mine is situated a little to the north of the celebrated “ St.
Patrick ” block, which up to the present has paid about £170,000 in dividends. At one time it returned
£3000 per fortnight to the fortunate proprietors. It is generally admitted that the “ St. Patrick ” block,
“Mysterv,” “ Dan O’Connell,” and the ‘ Young St. Patrick ” form one and the same reef. The “Dan
O’Connell ” is expected to yield 3 oz. per ton. The “ Mystery ” is let on tribute and is paying well, one
crushing of 1000 tons returning over 2000 oz. gold. The General Mining Manager reports that the 90 feet
downright shaft on the “Young St. Patrick ’ has passed through two reefs, one a brown lode, com-
posed of oxide of iron and quartz, the other a mundic reef. The latter has been struck quite recently,
and will be quickly opened out. The same reef nearer the surface gave 3 oz. per ton. Another shaft
further to the east is now down 150 feet, and cannot be far off the “ St, Patrick ” lode. THE
MACHINERY consiits of a splendid 10 h.p. portable engine and boiler (Clayton and Shuttleworth) and
double winding gear, erected between the two shafts, so that the same engine may wind from both.
Mr. R. L. JACK, the Government Geologist, sneaks of the “ St. Patrick ” as “ one of the richest reefs
of the field,” and furthermore says it is distinguished by an unusual width of gangue.
Mr. NORMAN TAYLOR, late Field Geologist for Victoria, in his Special Mining Report, writes as
follows :—
“This lease—No. 303, named ‘Young St. Patrick’—consists of 10 acres, and is situated near the
racecourse, to the north-east of the township. Three shafts have been sunk on the south side of the
irround, the new or whip shaft being 110 feet deep on to the Columbia Reef. The strike of this reef is
N. 35’ W., and its dip E. 25’ N. at an angle of 25'; but this is variable, as the reef seems to undulate or
roll. It is 2)4 feet thick. Below this reef again is the ‘ Mystery,’ and probably the ‘ Rise and Shine ’ or
1 North Star. Between the old and new shafts the stone assayed from 14oz. up to 38oz. gold per ton.
The reef is rather variable in thickness, cutting out and making again, and the stone is highly
mineralised. At the south-east corner of the lease is a permanent waterhole, on Mosman’s Creek.
Workings on the north side of the lease (outside) give an average of 3oz. gold per ton. This property is
one of the best on the field, and I can strongly recommend it.”
HUGH MOSMAN, in his report, writes as follows:—
“ This lease is situated in the centre of a lot of reefs which have yielded from 7dwt. to 6oz. to the
ton of quartz. The ‘Columbia,’ ‘Mystery,’ and ‘ St. Patrick ’ run through the ground, and as it is easy
to work compared to many others on the field in the matter of sinking and driving, on the different
reefs, it should prove a profitable mine to the owners on future development. A portion of the lease
includes a splendid water site for a crushing plant, and, of course, it will pay better by having such a
plant in connection with it. An adjoining claim is now raising 3oz. stone, and has for some time past
paid the shoteholders handsomely.”
NORTH AUSTRALIAN.
Lease No. 323. Area, 10 acres.—This reef is portion of the first prospecting claim ever taken up on
the goldfield. The main shaft is now down 430 feet. Crushings hitherto have given 3oz. to the ton, and
when mundic is cut at about 450 feet, very rich crushings may be expected.
Mr. NORMAN TAYLOR reports as follows on this particular property:—
“The reef known as the ‘ North Australian’appears to be a cross course to the celebrated ‘Day
Dawn’line of reef. The ‘North Australian’ was the first line of reef opened on the Towers. The
three adjoining claims to the south-east have been very rich, over £35,000 of gold having been taken
from Lease No. 289, and over £40,000 from Lease No. 161 (Mosman’s original prospecting claim). An
underlie shaft, 80 feet deep, has been sunk iu a direction of east 30'north, at an angle of 40‘, which,
however, is now full of water to within 35 feet of the sarfsce. The shaft is 3 chains south-east of the
north-west angle of the lease. In the direction of west 10’ 8.chains from the above shaft is another
reef underlying in the same direction. Poppet heads, forge, &c., are ©roctftd-on the ground, ready tor
an engine to work the mine systematically.
A much more recent report from the General Manager of the above properties is appended:—
Lease No. 323 adjoins the Mosman Gold Mining Company (which is now turning out 5oz. mundic
stone from the 400 feet level), and is the same reef, part of which was taken up by the discoverers of the
2£W. aua has been working ever since. There was little or no stone struck in our shaft to a depth of
300 feet, when a good soft formation commenced to make, and increased as sunk upon. At the bottom,
430 feet, the formation is thickly impregnated with quartz leaders, and there is every probability of a
good mundic reef being struck in a few feet. The present machinery consists of a B n.p. portable en-
gine, complete; one set friction winding gear; one No. 7 steam pump; also, engine-shed, blacksmiths’
shop, and requisite mining stores.”
THE WASHINGTON.
Lease No. 318. Area, 4 Acres—This was one of the original prospecting claims granted to the dis-
coverers of Charters Towers, and preferred by them before all rther reefs, owing to the large amount
■ F, ( . en Q visible on the surface. Down to the water-level very rich crushlngs were obtained,
yielding over 5 ounces to ton. The Influx of heavy water caused a cessation of work until steam nump-
Inp gear could be procured. This has now been done, the water drained off, and golden stone is being
raised. Crushing should be commenced in August, and good dividends may be confidently expected.
The following is a comprehensive report received from the Mining Manager, Mr.S. J. PEEK:—
“The Washington Is one of the first reefs discovered on the field, and was worked by Messrs. Mos-
man and party, the discoverers of Charters Towers Goldfield, iu 1872. The first stone treated was taken
Irom the cap of the reel, and yielded 5oz. of gold per ton; several large parcels of stone taken out
above the water level yielded from 1 to 8 oz. to the ton. llelow the water level very little work has
been done, as the water was too heavy for a whip; and until quite recently no machinery was on the
ground. At present there are two winding and pumping engines working on the north end of the lode,
known as the Alexandra Gold Mining Compatny, and the other on this lease, at the south end of the
lode. 1 he ground between the two is being worked by private parties. The Alexandra has turned out
a large quantity of gold. I cannot give the amount, but I know that about £8000 was paid in dividends
from a lew crushings, before the present Company purchased the mine. This is by far the better part
oi the lode, as all the shoots ol gold-bearing stone are dipping south, and must pass through your
ground. Two shoots of stone, yielding from 2 to 5 oz. per ton, were worked to the water level and left,
one of which I struck20 feet south of*the 108-feet downright shaft. The level is 30 feet into the shoot
which is from 1 to 2 feet, and shows gold freely. The lode is very strong under foot; if it continues
down, the next sink will turn out a_ large quantity of stone. THE MACHINERY consists of one
8-h.p. engine and boiler, one sot of friction winding-gear, and a jack-head pump, all new, and in first-
class order."
Mr. MOSMAN, in reporting on this property, writes as follows:--
“ From the surface to the water level very rich crushings, yielding over 6oz. to the ton, have been
obtained in the prospecting claim, and this was one of the original prospecting claims granted to the
discoverers of the field, and preferred by them to other reefs nearer the main mass of reefs, owing to
the large amount of quartz ami gold visible on the surface.”
TITLE.
“ There is the usual Government lease for each property—originally having twenty-one years to run
_subject to a yearly rental of £1 per acre.
“In purchasing these properties the Syndicate derives peculiar advantages, inasmuch as it takes
possession at a time when all the serious dead word and heavy expenditure are at an end. It may bo
estimated that over £18,000 has been spent in dead work development and machinery alone before at-
taining present results. Each le.ise is now supplied with pumping and raising gear (steam) of the most
modern and labour-saving description. Briefly, the matter stands thus :—
“ Washington.—On good gold, sufficient in itself to pay satisfactory dividends. Eight men are now
engaged breaking down stone.
“Great Britain.—On a grand reef, 13 feet wide, which will pay regular dividends immediately
stampers are attached ta the engine now erected. This can be effected in a few weeks.
“North Australian—A very large amount has been expended on this property before arriving at
present level. Nice raundic leaders are now showing, and the manager expects to cut the very rich reef
which in adjoining blocks has made the fortunes of many. It is Just possible the manager’s expecta-
tion may not be realised for a considerable time, and this doubt constitutes the usual speculation of
mining enterprise. The report of the manager is conscientiously given, and if the reef is cut it should
yield a fortune.
Young St. Patrick.—Very nearly the same remarks apply to this lease, with the exception that it
big dividends from this particular source can only come within the ’province ofspiecu hiti ve* calcuhu
tions.
From the foregoing may be readily gathered that the yields of “ Young St. Patrick” and “ North
Australian are in futuro, but that the present prospects of “ Washington” and “ Great Britain” mines
warrant a belief in steady dividends to the shareholders. The claims can be easily managed hr one
mining manager with a working overseer to each mine. Thus by a system of economic manage,; <• t-
the use of telephonic and electric communication with the differentleaaes-abundanceof skilled lui«,ur
the absolute connection by railway of the goldfields and port, and last but not least, the existence of a
direct fortnightly line of steamships between London and Townsville (the port for Charters Towers)
results may be expected which in a short time should satisfy the most sanguine expectations As
instances, may be Quoted two Companies formed to work the (now celebrated) Bay Dawn line of reef
adjoining the North Australian. The first, with a capital of £34,000, has already paid £138,399 in divi-
domla ilnPA 1• wnilat the nfhor a on Viao noi non •_ oi ’ ,
dends since 1879 ; whilst the other, also having a contributing capital of £34,000’in £1 shares, struck a
few weeks ago (June) the reef, which was over 9 feet wide, and showing an estimated yield of 5oz to
the ton. The shares are now salable at £101
Terms of Payment
For each full share, will bo £20 on application, £130 on allotment, and the balance (£350) by
Promissory note at four months’ date, without interest. Application will also be enter-
tained for Quarter Shares (£100), £50 cash, and £50 promissory note at four months.
General Remarks.
LitUe as Charters Towers, Ravens wood, Thornborough, and other North Queensland Goldfields are
known outside their own immediate neighbourhood, they are destined in a short space of time to
become important factors in the earth’s production of gold.
Instancing the present position of Charters Towers alone, the Senior Gold Warden of Queensland,
Mr. P. F. SELHEIM, in a recent report forthe Government, writes in the following strain
“ With a wider acquaintance and more mature experience of goldfields under my charge, I have
not seen anything that would make me alter in one single point the predictions.that Lexpresscd in mv
last report with regard to the future of Chartera/l'owers. Giveirtthe capital and tne rational manage-
ment required to convert much ground hithertcfnoglectod here into handsojnoiy paying concerns—the
feasibility of which no competent person will deny for a moment—and the output of -gold will be
double before long, with the natural sequence of twice the numbered a well-to-do population.”
During last year, ten claims (out of manv) crushed 22,380tons of quartz for a yield of' 43,406oz. gold
and since the discovery of this field a few years back,*geld tq the value of £2,573,&8 has been accounted
for by the Government escort alone, exclusive of a very largesamount taken away by private hands
These brief statistics speak for themselves, and if such extr.iordinaryi-vesults could be obtained with
limited local capital and indifferent appliances for saving gold, it does not require the gift of pronheev
to picture the future prospects of Charters Towers.
Three eminent geologists—Mr. ROBERT L. JACK (Geological Surveyor forSOueenaland) Mr
NORMAN TAYLOR (late Field Geologist for Victoria), and the Rev. J. Eh TENlSoN-WOODS- are
unanimous in their opinion as to the permanency of this field ; while Mr! Norman Taylor, in his snecinl
report upon the different claims of this company, concludosrthus
“ The reefs are true mineral lodes, and will be lasting ones. There can be no doubt as to the groat
value of the properties inspected by me.” 6
The operations of the company are not merely based upon speculative research after narrow rich
veins, but comprise sound enterprise and true commercial mining in the working of large permanent
lodes of gold-bearing quartz. * ul
APPLICATION FOR SHARES
will be received by the Secretary of the North Queensland Investment Company (83 Pltt-stroet
opposite Bank of New Zealand), under whose auspices this Company is brought out. *
The following Brokers are empowered tu receive applications for Shares <—
Messrs. Soutar & Hoare, 143 Pitt-street;
Messrs. Clarke & Co., 77 Pitt-street, Sydney, and 88
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
OVER THIRTY SHARES HAVE ALREADY BEEN APPLIED FOR, ANA THE LIST WILL
BE FINALLY CLOSED ON OR BEFORE U
Friday, the 31st August'


BEAD IT ALL.
It may Save your Life.
hop bitters
ABE
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buchn, Mandrake, and Dandelion.
“The Oldest, Best, most Renowned
‘and Valuable Medicines in the World'
‘and In addition contain all the best
‘and most effective curative properties
‘ of all other bitters, being the greatest
‘ Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER
‘ and life and health restoring agent on
‘ earth.” u
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Aged
and Inflriii.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
‘ Men, Labourers, Ladles, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
‘ irregularities of the Blood, Stomach
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require au
‘Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant
these Bitters are invaluable, beinJ
highly curative, tonic, and sWmulatim?
without intoxicating.” *’
“No matter what your feeling* or
symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
‘ wait until you are sick, but if you oniv
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun
dreds have been saved by so doing «t
‘ a trifling cost.” at
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
, ‘‘. D o not suffer yourself or let your
friends suffer, but use and urge them tr,
use Hop Bitters." °
“ Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile
drugged, drunken nostrum, but the
purest and best Medicine ever made
and no person or family should be
‘without it.”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO.,
Melbourne, Australia, Rochester, N. Y.,u. ft
A., Toronto, London, Antwerp, Paris.
GRAHA
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment,
543, late 531, George-street, Sydney.
Gentlemen, —I respectfully beg leave to bring
under your notice the superior style and fit of our
Trousers, which are cut on the same unerring
principles as those which have made the name of
Hill, Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion in the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either in sitting, riding,
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor braces,
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain their
position in every attitude of the body.
They are designed to fit the corpulent as well ai
the slight figure, and are engaged to give to all the
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial will suffice to establish their claim
on your patronage.
I am, Sir,
Your obedient Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM.
ree for Is. stamps to defray postage-
“ TRUTH,” „
T8E showing the under-surf ce
lety that cause Irn pediments 0 , u (
acy ; Woman ; Advice to’thosean q{
ilso, the Injury caused by tne^
Alcohol; Howto Regain and rre
; &c. &c. Address
R. T. SELBY, M.H.,
IRE ST., SURRY HILLS, SYD^^
MALT BITTER)
THE GREAT CUKE FOB
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAIN I,
NESS, &c.
.. 2s. 6d<
PRICE..
Prepared by A. G. KEBBLEWHITE, CnEitIS '
43 ERSKINE STREET.
Sold by W. H. SOUL, and all Chemis
TWO TYPICAL PUBLIC HOPS.
The members of the Melbourne Ttini-
Ycrein gave a bn 11 the other evening in the local
Exhibition Building. It was one of those stam-
pedes known .-s mask balls, the participants in
which wear s ci-shades over their eyes and noses,
and habit themselves in second-hand theatrical
garments, culled from the resources ot Mrs. Clee-
land’s or Mr. Ford’s wardrobes. It was a pic-
turesque spectacle; the more so, perhaps, because
everybody seemed to have selected the least ap-
propriate dress or character. Charles Dickens’
description of Mrs. Loo Hunter’s great entertain-
ment was no burlesque. We had it here. There
were any number of Tupmans in brigand jackets
with short tails, and a huge supply of Winkles and
Snodgrasses. Truly an edifying picture—just the
sort of thing that might have given inspiration to
grim old Carlyle, or set Mr. Ruskin agoing. Seri-
ous ago this-very much so, when sober, middle-
aged responsible mankind clothes itself in tights
and spangles and kicks up its lunatic heels at such
an affair as the Turn-Voreln mask ball. For it
must not bo supposed that this was a boy and girl
affair. Bald heads and dyed whiskers were knock-
ing about; while, as for wrinkles—well, they were
as thick as mosquitoes at a Botany picnic.
* * *
There was one little man at the Turn-
Vei;ein ball who had chosen the “presentment” of
Cardinal Wolsey. He didn’t look a bit like bluff
Harry’s astute minister. And, at supper, his
friends chaffed him. They told him that Wolsey
was a stout, tallish man; that he did not wear a
moustache: and that he was not in the habit of
having his hair curled. Exasperated beyond the
limits of forbearance, the Cardinal at last blurted
out: “ Now, look here, boys ; this is running it too
thin. I don't care a —whether he hadn’t a mous-
tache, or whether he curled his hair or didn’t. All
I want you to know is this; I'm a nineteenth
century Cardinal Wolsey—mind that; and the
original, 1 reckon, was a sight behind the times.
I’ll trouble you for a wing of that turkey!”
* ♦ •
At the Mayor’s ball in the Melbourne Town
Hall, there were some very queer people. , The
“Smooch ’’ tribe was largely represented. Hooked
noses and “beagle heyes” were discernible in
every corner ; while the Hebraic snuftie and
Semitic “ lithp ” reverberated above the melody of
trombone and trumpet, fiddle and flute. Curious
people, these: especially in full dress. But the
Sraouch snobbery was not more remarkable than
that of the Christian. Jinks and Bugglns were
there in all their glory, with their womankind.
Yet all this was just and consistent. The more
aristocratic of the guests were but veneer. Several
of them had interv iewed Mr. Commissioner Noel
more than once ; while, as to the ladies—mum.
A curious mixture, i’faith ; an dlla pndrida
of social “ idiosyncracies.” However, Mr. Mayor
was responsible for the gatheranoe, the which,
without doubt, ho considered to be sans taint or
flaw. No Mayor is a judge of such matters. He is
an intellectual, refined, and cultured man, is the
Mayor. To be sure, he has a habit of calling this
part of the world the Anti-podes; but, then, he
sins in good company. Dr. Lang did the like, and,
further, used to term the Chinese the Chln-eese.
Such trivial eccentricities, like Sir’Enery’s cruel
treatment of the letter “ h,” may not be supposed
to weaken the influence of the man or lessen the
popular respect for him. Decidedly Mr. Mayor
Dodgshun is a social success.
• • •
Bung went to the Turn-Yerein mask ball
as a Roman Soldier. As a matter of fact, Bung
measures five feet seven Inches in height, and
about the same round the abdomen. Some people
remonstrated with Bung as to his choice of this
classic character. But Bung wasn’t to be put off.
He said it stood to reason that all Roman soldiers
were not six-footers, and as to fat, some of ’em
must have suffered from embonpoint. And so
Bung went as a Roman Soldier—helmet, shield,
short sword, skirts, sandals, and all complete, sir.
Of course he was laughed at, but it was curious
that those who laughed the loudest had little right
to claim exemption from similar criticism to that
which they bestowed on Bung. The little man
enjoyed himself. He danced fourteen pounds off
his weight, and then he got mixed and tried to get
home as a Roman Soldier. He got as far as the
Town Hall steps, and, thinking he had arrived at
the Capitol, he sat down and fell asleep. “ What
the divll are you ?” interrogated C14. “ Eh ?”
muttered Bung. “What are yez ?” “Bung—”
“ Come, me man, be civil,” exclaimed C14 : “ what
are ye doin’ here in yer playhouse dress ?” “ I’m a
Ro-man Soldier,” hiccoughed Bung: “Begone:
Brutus is an honourable man.” Then C14 took
hold of Bung by the collar of his shirt of mail, and
fetched him along to the station. “ What’s the
charge ?” asked the sergeant. C14 scratched his
head. “Falx, sergeant, there ye have me, In-
dacent conduct, may be; tor sure the crayture s
not fit to be seen by dacent women at all, at all."
So the entry was made, and Bung was ushered into
a cell into which a variety of erratic human
nature had already been cast. Bung was received
with enthusiasm. One inebriate offered him a
blanket to cover up his poor legs. Another re-
lieved him of his shield and used it as a tam-
bourine. A third tried to get his helmet off—an
indignity which was fiercely resented by Bung,
who struck the facetious reveller a blow in the
stomach which effectually lowered the tone ©f his
humour. Then there was a row, in the course of
which Bung’s garments were torn from his back,
and he stood forth even as he was born. And so the
morn dawned—the roseate eastern sky proclaimed
the birth of day. The birds in the woods sang their
matin hymn in very gladness. The air was soft
and balmy. The scent of flowers and the odoursof
the Elizabeth-street drain mingled harmoniously.
The milkman’s “ Yup” came to the ears of Bung
as he stood shivering in a corner of the cell encased
in a prison blanket. For him the peace and the
sweetness, the gentle Influence of the hour, were
not. His soul was not in accord. He was naked,
and bruised and battered. Thus he awaited events.
They came in the shape of Mrs. Bung, a lady of
five feet ten inches and the shoulders of a plough-
man. Bung was called forth. “ Put these on,”
said the lady, handing her trembling lord a pair of
leg-concealers. The little man did so, humbly and
submissively. When he was clothed, he was put
into a cab and driven away. Nobody has seen him
since, but he was fined ten shillings for sitting on
the steps of the Town Hall without trousers, and
using abusive language to C14, in contempt of law
and order. An owre true tale, my masters.
We have a sort of reminiscent pity for
telegraphic correspondents of country papers.
You yvill see why yve say this if you yvill yvaita
minute. The writer of this paragraph, yvhen in
Melbourne, yvas at one time a correspondent lor a
Victorian country paper. This yvas just after he
had throyvn up (euphuistic phrase for being pitched
out of) the lucrative, it not elegant, position of
“boots” at a popular hotel, and before he had
accepted the ornate office of oyster-opener at an
eminent fish-shop. Things yvere very slack There
yvas nothing stirring, except soup and dust.- Ned
Kelly" had not been heard of for some time. We
couldn’t venture out on the Rialto because of our
boots and other things. Stray scraps of garbled
gossip and items of theQueen-Anne-is-dead species
yvere sometimes brought doyvn our alley by ad-
venturous cabbage-hayvkers and sanguine boot-
lace-merchants. These and the inhabitants of
the alley Itself — organ - grinders, shoe - blacks,
chiffoniers, charwomen, and a te>v retired Civil
sery'ants and superannuated statemen — yvere
our principal sources of information. And yve
tell you there is a good deal to bo learnt
from such people—a good deal of lies, mostly.
Well, yve used to hook out, from this dust-bin of
fact and fiction, such items as yve hoped might be
syvalloyved by our rustic readers—add to them a
speculation or tyvo of our own, by yvay r of making
up, by" a dash into the future, for any haziness of
information about the present—sling in a little
scandalous sensation, to be contradicted next day,
as sauce—and then hurry down on the dark side of
the street fo the telegraph office, and employ the
greatest invention of this century of enlighten-
ment to carry to a lot of innocent people, who had
ney’er done us any" harm, a mixture of lies and
monstrosities, which might unsettle their moral
convictions lor ey"er. In fact, we grieve to say
that we believe we did more injury to the morals
of that previously innocent country town during
the fortnight—we were only a fortnight at this
game before we were found out-in which we
supplied the local journal, than a dozen bush
missionaries would have done in a twelve-
month. But then, you see, we had to live—at
least, we then thought we had. Our present con-
viction is that some charitable person should
have killed us. He would have been killing future
genius, but what then ? If he had, we should
have forgotten all about it by this time; and the
supply ot geniuses will never be exhausted while
there are individuals who have to solve the
problem of how to live without hard work. The
supply will never be exhausted, otherwise we
should have to do without a Parliament and several
other things. All this we have told vou is apropos
of a report sent to the Macleay Herald by its
telegraphic correspondent regarding the arrival of
the Irish informers at Sydney. Wo suppose he is
under the same delusion that we were in those
days the delusion that the world will g*o to wreck
unless he stays upon the surface of it a while
longer. This is the only justification possible for
telling a people — not semi-barbarous as our
constituents were, but comparatively brilliant
with the reflected light of an K. B. Smith—that
‘i^ ge^crowds assembled on the different points
of the harbour in hopes of seeing the Invincibles,”
and that “ great excitement prevails.” As a
matter of fact, the “crowds” that gathered were
not halt as large as the commonest dog-fight or
tram-accident would bring round, and the “ excite-
ment ” not a whit greater tnan would be produced
by the Intelligence that the Pathan had brought
out three new kinds of rats to the colony. Hut. as
we st fi d . before, we suppose the man must live.
V ot if he could manage to live with his head
amputated, it would be little loss to him, and a
groat gain to the public, Honestly, though, wo
should advise him to do as we did at the termina-
tion of our engagement—start oyster-opening. It
is a pleasant profession—when the proprietor of
the restaurant is not looking on and there are
plenty of oysters.
Strangers frequently remark that the
youth of Colonial cities arc undergrown, and
wonder at the reason. There is no cause to wonder.
They are not sufficiently watered—soap and-
watered.
Some of them always run crooked. All the
clerical evidence previously before the Victorian
Education Commission was dead against voluntary
religious teaching in the State Schools. Then the
Rev. .1. Watsford was examined, and he went
straight for that evidence. After a few defiant
snorts, ho expressed his deep-seated opinion that
“voluntary" teaching would meet the religious
difficulty'.” Ho cannot understand why so many
of his brethren in the Lord now walk across the
road when he turns the corner.
An odd sort of man, with an odd sort of
history, was this Osman Day, yvho was sentenced at
the Quarter Sessions to three years’ imprisonment
for bigamy". He yvas lately lecturing in the Domain
against drunkenness and several other things. He
was a feather-headed kind of fellow, whose tongue
outpaced his thought, but was cleverish withal.
When the Carlist fiasco occurred in Spain betook
part in it, and was taken prisoner and confined
three years in the Luxembourg. There are hun-
dreds of such men floating about the yvorld—
bright, versatile fellows, but failures al.vays. His,
therefore, was not a very peculiar case, after all.
What yvas peculiar, however, was the generous
conduct ot his first yvife in endeavouring to shield
him by denying that they were ever married.
There Is a curious complexity about the feminine
nature. It would be interesting to know what
actuated this woman to do as she did. Was it
because of the children that she did not desire her
husband to be imprisoned ? or was it that they really
never were married ? or that they had some
mutual interests which would suffer by his im-
prisonment? or, lastly, was she that rare woman
—the woman we read of—who has nobility of
nature to overlook slights, overcome jealousy, for-
give injuries, and go through fire and water for
the man she loves ? For the credit of human
nature, we believe she was. And all the more that
Osman Day seems to have been a weak-headed
fool, is this deserted wife of his a heroine.
Mr. William Redmond, who is a variable
young man, has a grievance. It is that, since his
election for Wexford, the Australian papers have
refrained from attaching to his name that high-
sounding pendant “M.P.” William is alleged to
believe that those letters, and not great histrionic
power, secured praise and popularity for his
brother, won homage from patriotic hearts, and
much tribute from bright eves. Therefore, Wil-
liam would be a member of the Saxon Senate—an
associate of the “ six hundred scoundrels ” —he
would have the freeze-coated faithful effusive, and
the pretty girls responsive to his Byronlc-shirt-
collar beauty. At Melbourne, lately, William
blurted out that “ he would attend no more meet-
ings with his brother, if he were to be boycotted in
this way.” It was on the same occasion that Mr.
Frank Gavan Duffy ventured to hint that the term
“ cowards ” was not applicable to all the Melbourne
Irishmen who held aloof from the Redmonds. A
Tasmanian Archdeacon held William by the coat-
tails, and prevented him from attacking Mr. Duffy
on the spot.
A CHAPTER OF THEOLOGY.
THE FREETHINKER OP THE GOOD OLD TIMES.
THE FREETHINKER OF TO-DAY.


Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREA r LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favourite remedy. We all suffer more
or less from liver complaint, thereby hindering
other organs from I ulfilling their function?. Set
the liver in order by taking the above remedy, and
heart, lungs, brain, and stomach will unite in
graceful chorus.
ABBAHAM’S PILLS,
The true invigorate r. If your vital forces are
depressed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, > ir a presentiment of coming
disaster, your liver is unequal to its work. To
obviate all these symotoms there is no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABRAHAM’S FILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion of
the maladies and ailments attacking the human
frame are really due I o a disordered liver. Set this
organ in order and health returns as if by magic.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are imitalions, ask for ABRAHAM’S
PILLS. See that each box, by whomsoever sold,
bears the Inventor's name and trade mark. The
Laboratory,
434 George Street, Sydney.
"ONEY LOANS GRANTED at moderate into-
rest on Furniture (without possession),
Jeeds, Bonds, Certificates, Shares, or other Secu-
rities, payable to suit convenience.
No Deduction made from amount Required,
which will be paid in full within twelve hours or
application.
MONT DE PTETE CENTRAL LOAN OFFICE,
98 Castli t each Street, ,
One door South of King Street.
WORKING CLASSES,
GENERATE YOUR OWN GAS.
Apply to
D. K E E L Y A N D C O.,
71 Goulburn-street, Sydney;
Dealers In Portable Gas, Gaseliers, Lamps, and
Fluid. Comfort, Economy, and Safety.
Mr. Keely, on behalf of the Patent Portable Gas
Co., had charge of the lighting of the hall and
supper rooms at the Hay Demonstration, and the
lighting of Croydon Station. Ho undertakes to
teach his customers in three minutes the mode of
lighting.
A liberal discount wil 1 be given to storekeepers
on remittances per orders, and goods forwarded
with quick despatch. Orders and remittances to
be sent to the above address. No orders attended
to without remittance.
LIST OF PRICES:
4 Light Gasaller 70s
3 do do 60s
2 do do Sis to 45s
Wall bracket lamp, burn 16 hours.. 17s 6d
do do 9 do .. 15s
Table lamps, 2 branch 60s
do 1 do 45s
Brass Brackets 40s
All Globes and Fittings .. .. 5s extra
Fluid, in cases, 8 gal ... .. .. 2s 6d per gal.
1 gal. fluid gives a light equal to 12s worth kero-
sene. Instructions as to tl e mode of lighting sent
to clients with despatch of goods.
Goods sent to all pai ts of the Colonies.
EVERY DESCRIPTION OP FISHING TACKLE,
Wholesale and Retail.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE STREET.
V. E. ANGLE’S
(Late of 31 Market street),
Fashionable Tailoring Establishment
636 GEORGE STREET,
Brickfield Hill.
A large and well-assorted stock of Tweeds and
Coatings, direct from the manu facturers, always
on hand.
All Garments Cut in the most Fashionable Styles.
PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
Note the Address -
636 George St., Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY.
ERMEST CARTER,
Wardell Saw and Planing Mills,
RICHMOND RIVER,
All Timber is thoroughly seasoned before it
leaves these Mills, and is very light for carriage
up-country, and lit for immediate use.
PINE, CEDAR, BEECH, FLOORING. LINING.
Mouldings, Architraves. The Trade only Supplied.
A. GORMAN,
Late of the Telegraph Hotel, Inverell,
has opened the
‘ daxem-dornt,’
Corner of ELIZABETH & PARK Streets,
And which he Intends to keep as a first-class Hotel,
A. G. hopes, by strict attention to Business, to
gain a share of their PATRONAGE. \ ISITORS
will find this surpasses most of the leading
HOTELS for ACCOMODATION and eviTy CON-
VENIENCE ; and, as it overlooks HYDE PARK, it
must necessarily bo WELL VENTILATED.
SUITES of ROOMS for FAMILIES,
as per agreement.
HOT and COLD WATER BATHS.
PORTER in Attendance Day and Night.
It Is not necessary to mention the quality of the
WINES, SPIR1 i'S, BEERS, &c. &c„ as he if and al-
ways has been, noted throughout the COLON IES
lor selling nothing but the very best.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
" THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old 3x4Iatia.red
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO. *S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottled in bond for Ex, H ?fc the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, t refore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ hiskey Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that you get it. look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
YII11 O P A T H Y.— MR. JOSEPH REEVE!
Hydropathic Physician.
An Infallible System of Purification for the Cure
of Coughs, Colds Acute or Chronic Indigestion, Con-
stipation, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Paralysis, Liver
Complaint, Skin Eruptions, or any other Inflam-
matory Diseases. All persons who are suffering,
and weary of using physic, and hopeless, are in-
vited to adopt this Hygiene System. A few weeks’
treatment will suffice for nearly every case.
Ladies and Children attended to. In-door Patients
received at the Establishment. Terms on
application,
“Throw physic to the dogs, I’ll none of it.”—
Shakespeare.
“Purification in the old law did save life.” Milton.
Address :
8 Royal Terrace, Nicholson Street,
FITZROY, MELBOURNE.
SYDNEY & iiELBODRNE
COFFEE PALACE,
231 GEORGE STREET NORTH.
JOHN JOHNSON, Proprietor.
1—1 AYING opened the above, the Proprietor has
supplied a want long felt in Sydney. The
first floor contains spacious Ladies and Gentle-
men’s Dining and Drawing Rooms, also Suites and
Single Bedrooms (viz., 45 bedrooms), will be open
shortly. A trial solicited.
CALL AND INSPECT.
THOMAS MUMRO,
HERALDIC ARTIST AND ENGRAVER,
PLAIN AND FANCY STATIONER.
10 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
A Large and varied assortment of Letter Books,
Account Books, and all office requisites. Purses,
Albums, Plush Bags, and Reticules; Artists’ Mate-
rials, Photo, and Picture Frames, Illuminated
Scripture and other texts. Birthday, Condolence,
and Memorial Cards.
Agent for August Huenerbcin for Pianos. Or-
gans, and Music. The Engraving workshop being
under my own management, I feel confident in
suiting the public taste.
E WOLFF AND SON
• Manufacturers of
Black Lead Pencils, Drawing Chalks, Crayons,
Artists’ Materials, and Stationers’ Sundries
Makers, by appointment, to Her Majesty’s Govern-
ment and the Bank of England.
Office and Warehouse: 56 Great Queen-street,
Lincoln s Inn Fields, W.C. Factory; Falcon Pencil
Works, Battersea, London, S.W. A full set ol
samples can be seen, and further particulars ob-
tained, on application to
E. B. WOLFF (Sole Agent for N.S.W.), care ol
Messrs. Feldhelm, Gotthelf and Co., 30 Hunter-
street, Sydney.
S
ECURE A LOT AT SPRINGSIDE
£1 DEPOSIT, £1 PER MONTH.
FORTUNATUS FINANCIAL, LAND, AND
INVESTMENT COMPANY,
5®” 3 17 PITT STREET,
Near Temperance Hall.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
WIRE WORKERS, 3
to call your attention to WIRE GOODS
T ▼ we make and have in stock as under
FLOWER STANDS, for holding flowers in pots
made of iron and wire, handsomely framed and
bronzed, suitable for rooms, hails, balconies, ver-
andahs, and conservatories. Also, WIRE FERN
BASKETS, all sizes and prices.
SIEVES and SCREENS, for screening lime,
gravel, coal, &c., ail meshes, from 1 hole to KX
oles to the squares inch.
WIRE LATTICE-WORK, for protection of win-
dows from breakage caused by hall-storms or boys
throwing stones. Also, WIRE NETTING, all sizes,
from 12 in. to 72 in. wide.
CAGES of every description, for canaries and
parrots, singly or in nests, suitable for store-
keepers.
And every description of WIRE WORK made on
the premises.
eastway, brothers,
413 GEORG E-STREET.
2T" Illustrated Catalogues on application.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
IF your Chemist or Grocer cannot or will not
supply you with the “ PAINLESS CORN
RELIEVER,’ write direct to the Registered Pro-
prietor. who will forward a bottle to all parts of
Australasia, Post Free, for 2s. 6d.
Address:—JOHN CLOWES,
One Mila Creek, Gympie.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
FOWLER’S POTTERY and
BRICKWORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
The federal bank of Australia
_ (Limited)
Incorporated under Act of Parliament,
CAPITAL, £1000,000; SUBSCRIBED, £665,000.
Directors:
, lr The Hon. W. A. Brodribb, M.L.C., Chairman.
W-H. Eldrcd, Ks<i., J.P. IF. T. Humphery, Esq.,
Robert Hudson, Esq. M.P.
,, „ I J. Y. Mills, Esq., J.P.
Manager ; F. 8. Maodermott.
Accountant: John Docker.
Solicitors : Messrs. Robertson, Fisher, and Ralfe.
Temporary Banking House, 257 George-street,
North, with branch at the Haymarket.
Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies
and in Europe.
Highest rates of interest given on Deposits, and
all usual Banking business transacted without
delay to customers.
F. 8. MACDERMGTT, Manager.
IV. H. Ariell and Co.’s Agencies.
—
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, Canter-
bury, Normanby, and Christmas Family Cakes,
Plum Puddings, Mincemeat, Self-raising
Alrated Flour, Infant’s Food, Treacle and
> Golden Syrup.
EXCELSIOR MILLS.—Superior Victorian Oat-
meal and Pearl Barley.
DILLON & BURROWS’ prize assorted Confec-
tionery.
J. KITCHEN & SONS, No. 1 Mottled and Toilet
Soaps.
J. F. M’KENZTE & CO.’S Coffee, Mustard, Cocoa,
Tea, in and 11b. packets ; dressed Rice,
and Patent Groats.
HUNT & CO.’S Prize Baking Powders, Adelaide
Jams Paper Bags, &c.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
Coolalta Wine, Bodega,
MORT’S PASSAGE, back of Messrs. W. H.
Paling and Co.’s.
Choicest Wines, by the glass or bottle, may be had
at the Bodega. Hot Spioed Wines during Winter.
Open from 9 a.m. till 6 p.m.
DANCING.— Prof. WEST’S Classes. — Private
Lessons, Monday and Thursday mornings ;
afternoon classes,Thursdays. Evening; Beginners,
Mondays, 8 p.m.: Thursdays, 7.30 p.m.; Advanced,
8.30 p.m., at Tattersall’s New Hall, Hunter-street.
Second term now commencing. During present
school holidays there will be time for private
lessons in new waltz, &c. 251 Elizabeth-street.
The Dancing Academy being the largest in
Sydney, there are now vacancies, quarter dating
from entrance.
THE AUSTRALIAN
Diamond Drill Company.
CONTRACTS will be undertaken by the above
Company to bore any sized holes, vertical or
horizontal, up to
3 INCHES, OR LARGER IP REQUIRED,
to any depth, at a reduction of 36 PER CENT.
BELOW ANY PREVIOUS CHARGE.
The Company, in all cases, will And their own
fuel and water for drilling’ purposes, and will make
no charge for loss of diamonds or wear and tear on
plant, and will also provide workmen engineers, &c.
The new duplex barrel, Introduced into the
colony by Mr. J. Coghlan, will be used free of
charge to persons searching for minerals.
Mr. Coglan has every confidence, from his prac-
tical knowledge of the Diamond Drill, that he will
be able to give geneHU satisfaction, as well as quick
despatch to all ordeifc addressed to the
Temporary Offices, 311 George-street.
JOHN COGHLAN,
General Manager, pro. tern.
Singer’s Sewing Machines.
TURNEnT & CO.
Are the Recognised Agents of the
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS:
2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week.
And no interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
1ST BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE “SINGER,”
TURNER & COMPANY,
353 George-street.
THE ONLY “SINGER.”
Turner and Company,
578 GEORGE STREET.
R BUHGXS fnh
TAILOR. . Il/U
VISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
FOR
CHEAPNESS, FIT, AND WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any
part of the Colony.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 Park Street,
IMPORTERS
of
PIANOS,
by every maker
of renown, from
£36 and up-
wards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
Pianos! Pianos! Pianos!
FREE TRADE and NO MONOPOLY.
Live and Let Live, these are Our Mottoes.
It is a well-known fact that the Foundations o
Colossal Fortunes have been established upon the
Profits arising from the SALE OF PIANOS in this
I Years by those
the Construction
Public the benefit of our"Mr". Yo u ng'? 26°y ears'
personal practical experience (5 years in John
Broadwood and Sons, London, and 20 in N.8 W )
we will, at the same time, be satisfied with a fair
percentage on the Co-operative Principle, sharing
the Profits with our Customers. We will sell from
25 per cent, less than the same class of Instrument
can be Purchased at any Music Shop in Sydney
and we will offer nothing for Sale we cannot
guarantee. American Organs at proportionately
low prices. Also a Large Stock of Kohn’s Cele-
brated Austrian Furniture, a single article of
which we are selling at Wholesale Pxiees.
Come and See Our LITTLE BEAUTIES in Wal-
nut and Full Iron Frame, at £25 cash, Eleswhere
£10 more, or under a Liberal Time Payment Sys-
tem.
George E. Young and Co.,
2 85 PITT STREET,
South of Royal Arcade.
B
RAUN’S WALTHAM WATCHES
TOOK FIRST PRIZE
And all the Gold Medals at every Exhibition,
MADE ESPECIALLY FOR
B. BRAUN,
Watchmaker, Jeweller, & Opticiat
376 GEORGE STREET,
Near the Post Office.
The Largest Stock of Waltham Watches in Sydne
500 to select from.
Silver Walthams from £3 to £12
Gold Walthams from £8 to £45.
Warranted from two to seven years.
BF* Only at B. BRAUN, 876 George Street
SHORT HORN
.whisky.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIAKD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON .—The
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try-ft the more you like it.
S. HOFPNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
THE HARWOOD
Fibre Chair Seating,
Possessing 1 all the qualities of a perfect seat, viz. :
Strength, Durability, Ease, Beauty, Cleanliness
and Cheapness.
THIS CHAIR SEAT is made from the strongest
known libres and a perfectly waterproof
cement, and after fifteen years' constant use, we
can speak positively as to its merits. It cannot
split or check, neither will exposure to sun or x-ain
affect it.
Awarded Gold Medal at the late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
For RE-SEATING it is unrivalled. In every
house, store and office, are chairs with seats broken.
Any person can re-seat and make as good as new a
chair that is otherwise worthless, at a very trifling
expense.
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE FOR HOME USE.
Agents Wanted in Every District.
From £3 to £5 a week can be made by any smart
man or boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
83 CLARENCE STREET.
EU
KA
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
THE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco of the Age !
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The only Tobacco combining Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Pi-ice.
Each PLUG is STAMPED with the word
“EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain it.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
SaTwell’s Tobacco Co., Lim.
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
And can be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse,
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as its mex-its become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO,
Registered according to Act of Parliament, to pro-
tect the public against spurious and worthless
imitations.


RUMfO^
Prepared according to the directions o p rof
E. N. Hereford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMKNDED FOR
DYSPEPSIA, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASE
HYSTERIA, WAKEFULNESS. SEA-SICKNFss
WEAKENED ENERGY, &c.
No Danger can Attend its Use.
Nervous Depression from Overwork
Sluggish Circulation anti Growing ri,ii
rtren.
Sandusky, O., May 21 issn
1 iiavo used your Acid Phosphate and cannr
nounce It a very valuable addition. 1 find it iio
ful and beneficial in nervous dyspepsia, nervnf.
depression following' overwork and anxiety nsW
as the gastric derangements. Where them I,
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation a dni
heavy head, it is of undoubted value. Fast irmro
ing children require this valuable addition 8 w '
W. R. PAGE, M.D.
Liver anil Kidney Derangements.
Boston, Mass., May 18 isso
In regard to the Horsford’s Acid Phosn’ham I
have used it very extensively, and with the ran.
remarkable success. 81
, I Stive it in dyspepsia and in all cases where them
is derangement of the liver and kidneys With
my patients it has agreed wonderfully.
O. G. CILLEY, M.D.
Nerve Tonic.
A. S. Carpenter, M,D., Keene, N.H., says ■
. ‘ Horsford's Acid Phosphate is a valuable niedi
cine. I have taken it myself, and for several
years prescribed it for my patients, when suffering
from indigestion or innervation of the digestive
organs, and always with satisfactory results It is
a good nerve tonic, and in some cases of morbid
urine, 4 it acts like a charm,’ producing the desired
result. It is pleasant to the taste, acceptable to the
stomach, and is, in my opinion, an excellent and
valuable compound.”
fan be borne by the most Sensitive
Stomachs.
Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 1880.
Horsford’s Acid Phosphate, in elegance ofcom-
Sosition, stands unrivalled. It is pleasant to the
iste, and can be borne by the most sensitive
stomach. Have prescribed it with marked benefit
in indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms an
excellent substitute for lemon juice, and as such
will furnish a refreshing drink for the sick.
A. L. HALL, M.D.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
Hk/Hstgfic Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Purely Vegetable, nnd may be Used Internally
or Externally.
44 It Works like a Charm.”
It Is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy It gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches Are. It cure*
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Braises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an internal remedy it tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Throat, and Dyp*
therla.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use in
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers in
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best Imported into this country, and have
gained throughout the colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-soleoted and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the Iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. 1
leather, and the upholstery Is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their fcnlsh
BECAUSE they are each and all built under special
instructions to, and personal supervision o ,
one of the leading carriag e builders in Amenc*'
and specially constructed for the Austrau
climate _ _
And because all who use them say they are t
best.
American Carriage Emporium*
WYNYARD SQUARE, SIDNEY.
BARRON, JIOX'BAM^CCL^
ALFRED INDICTED.
A CAUTION TO MEN.
We owe it all to him—to Alfred. Every
secret wo know (wo can’t count them) first per-
colated through him. Through him we discovered
this last one, and greatest. Ladies! it applies par-
ticularly to you, and for you wo publish it :—
“TMPORTANT to Ladies only.—A lady, in posses-
sion of some secrets invaluable to ladies
generally, will forward same to any address on
receipt of 15 uncut penny stamps. Address Madame
R., P.O., William-st., W’oo.”
Such is the notice to be seen any day in the
Sydney Evening News. There is no human
characteristic so generally diffused as gullibility.
It is alike in all nations and ages. So a rush has
taken place on “fifteen penn’orths” of uncut
penny stamps, and the advertiser sits at her bou-
doir window every morning and receives her
letters in a furniture van. We induced our mother-
in-law (honest soul!—she should have been con-
tent with the number of “secrets” she already
knows) to go for this one, and we append the
answer:—
“ HOW TO GET A HUSBAND.
“ T>Y following the directions here given a lady
can always calculate upon procuring a hus-
band :—
“ In the first place, if you be young and good-
looking, you have merely to observe a prudent
line of conduct, dress as well as your circumstances
will permit, but avoid extravagance and showiness,
and also too great a desire for amusement. Then
select a gentleman you would have for a husband.
You must not show too great a desire for his com-
pany; but must nevertheless make yourself agree-
able so far as conversation and little acts of atten-
tion are concerned. If your man has money and
is of a saving disposition, you must play your
cards accordingly—not for a moment to preach of
‘saving;’ but to try and make yourself appear in
his eyes as a careful body. You must pay great
attention to personal matters; always to be as clean
and neat as your circumstances will permit
slovenly and dirty in your working moments, and
all ribbons, muslin and pomade when the intended
is present. A man likes a clean and tidy woman ;
besides, he might drop in by accident when you are
en deshabille, and it is then ten chances to one that
his favourable opinion of the lady will go down
fifty per cent.; therefore, always try and be clean
and tidy.
“ Be careful, in a quiet way, to speak well of him
to your friends, and in a mild manner express a
good opinion of him. Your remarks are sure to
reach his ears; but be careful not to overdo It, as
some men are very suspicious. If he offer you a
little present, accept it; and when he speaks of
love and a wish to make you his wife, meet him
half way, and tell him you always 'iked him; but
do not show too much avidity. At this point the
lady may safely calculate on success, and it then
remains with herself to complete the business. [Too
true. Ah! Ed. B.]
“If he be a widower with children, bo kind to
the little ones, and occasionally give them small
inexpensive presents: they will become fond of
you, and this fact will have a wonderful effect on
their father.
“ It you be past middle age, and desire to have a
young husband, you must not be too diffident.
First act as if you were entitled by your seniority
to give him kind advice, then express an anxiety
in his welfare, afterwards fondle, him, then marry
him. [This is what our third did. Yes, she married
us. Ed. B.]
HOW TO CHOOSE A HUSBAND.
“ Always choose a husband with different colour-
el hair to your own.
“ If you have a long serious face, choose a hus-
band with a round jovial one.
“If you are a fat jovial woman, marry a thin
man.
“ Age is another important consideration. If two
people marry, both equal in physical strength,
according to sex, the man should be from five to
ten years older.
“ If you are superior to the man In strength, your
ages should be equal; if you are a year or two older
it will not matter.
“ If you are a weak delicate woman, do not marry
a strong vigorous man.
“ Intermarriage with relations Is a cause of un-
fruitfulness, or weak delicate children.”
Now, the foregoing is all a? true as gospel. We
have buried seven wives, each of whom caught u»
according to the recipe of Madame R. AVe consider
that every lady who reads this should send us at
least ninepence (in uncut penny stamps, please),
the difference between the price of the Bui.detin
and the fee of Madame R., whose little game we so
cruelly burst up. This being the spring season, we
can afford to make a slight reduction for prompt
cash.
The Irish are said to be a peculiarly adap-
tive race. Mickey Freeman is >■ living and illus-
trious instance of the truth of this statement. He
is a noble adapter. In his melancholy articles
headed “ Bathurst Revisited," he gives, as his own,
a story told by the late John Francis Mag uire, M.P.,
in his “ History of the Irish in America," concern-
ing a Protestant who had an unaccountable desire
to confess to a priest. We haven’t much to say
about the story, except that we suppose the Pro-
testant had stolen the priest’s horse, and wanted to
get a reward for finding it; or that he (the Protest-
ant) wanted to make sure of a “ leg in," whichever
side came off the winner. But wo blush for
Mickey. And we weep for his readers.
At a country race-meeting down South*
the other day, the “foorce” determined to adopt
a summary method for the punishment of drunks.
He took a padlock and chain to the course, and
announced it as his intention to chain the first
drunk to a tree until he became sober. A frail
daughter of Eve was the first to exhibit alcoholic
results, and was promptly “ attached ” to the tree.
Several well-known sports immediately gathered
round the “foorce,” complimented him on the
plucky manner In which he had managed the ar-
rest, and finished up by inviting him to the nearest
booth, for a refresher after his exertions. One
after another “ shouted ” until the “ force ” began
to arrive at that dreamy stage when it is considered
impossible to say “ truly rural." It was then that
great interes was suddenly manifested in the
shape and size of the key of the padlock, which
was accordingly produced and handed round for
inspection. Then the “foorce” found himself
gently borne “as on the wings of zephyrs ” to the
spot where the woman was chained. Chloe was
released and Robert was chained in her place.
And when the unsuspecting traveller asks whose
bleached bones are those which lie at the foot of the
tree with the rusty chain amongst them, he la told
the legend above printed, which la as true as the
fieart ot John Davies* so help our Jemmy Martin.
A citizen of Maryborough, Q., got up the
other morning to find a bundle on his door-step.
Of course you all know what it contained. So did
he. apparently, for he would not touch it until he
had called his maid-servant. She found “ it was
warm ” —too warm, altogether, for t he master of
the house, in fact. It wasn't Maryborough, but
another Queensland town, it we recollect rightly,
from which the local bank-manager asked to lie
removed because he had got tired of finding a
drunken man or a baby on the doorstep of the
bank even morning. Of the two, we think, our-
selves, we should prefer to find a drunken man,
because a drunken man does sometimes have some
money upon him, but a baby rarely, if ever. And
if any of your friends happen to pass at the time,
the drunken man is more respectable company to
be seen in than the baby.
The murderer, Burns, still occupies the
condemned ce'l at Hamilton, Vic. He cannot be
strangled until the law-points—to be argued during
the term commencing on the 1st September—in his
case aresettled. The chance is remote, but possible,
that he will be released, notwithstanding the
Judge’s warning to “regard himself as a doomed
man.” During the last eighteen months, this
wretch has passed through an experience as unique
as it was terrible. Tried and unconvicted on two
occasions for one murder, he is at last, after one
and a half years spent in hunting up evidence
against him, found guilty and condemned for the
third assassination laid at his charge. So far as the
crime of murder is concerned, this is par excellence
the Australian cause cilihre, and, as such, demands
some attention. It is a case touching the doctrine
Ol probabilities on one side, and the law of evi-
dence on the other. Nearly one hundred years
ago, La Place came to the conclusion that all the
planets of the solar system had been thrown off
from the sun. When only one planet, such as the
earth, was considered, the evidence was by no
means convincing. But when the whole number,
from Mercury to Neptune, were included, the
chain of conviction did not appear to want a
link. In the astronomer’s case, it was quite allow-
able to strengthen the theory by means of evi-
dence drawn from other sources; but, in the felon’s,
any reference to the former murders of which he
had been acquitted should he entirely out of
court. And yet the unanimity with which men
conclude that Burns is arnurderer is only equalled
by their unanimity in opining that it was not on
the testimony received at the last trial only that
the man was convicted. There was an assurance
abroad that the man was an assassin. It was
universal, and no jurymen could escape it. The
case was one of those where men find it impossible
to disabuse their minds of previous opinions, how-
ever solemnly they are warned to do so. It then
presents these curious features, that conviction
followed on evidence not a whit more direct than
that on which acquittal had previously followed —
that, while the testimony in one case was not con-
vincing, yet it was infrangible when the three
cases were taken together—and that, while in law
only the proof adduced in court should be con-
sidered, many other considerations have weight
attached to them in fact. But for Burns’ two pre-
vious trials, it is quite certain that no jurycould
have been found to agree to a conviction on the
thud.
M. Ernest Renan, author of the “Vie de
Jesus,” has published a new work entitled “ Recol-
lections of my Youth.” He has a great deal to say
in it ot the superstitions of Brittany. Some of
these are very curious. For instance, one of his
mother s neighbours was a sorceress. She con-
sulted the Fates as* to whether Ernest Renan would
five, by throwing one of his shirts into a sacred
lake." He means to live!” she exclaimed joyfully,
alter the ordeal had been gone through. “No
sooner had I thrown the little shirt on to the sur-
face than it lifted itself up. Ah, if you had seen
how the two arms stretched themselves out!”
There is a pathos about these old superstitions
which can only be felt by those who nave been
brought up where ghosts and saints and fairies are
as common as cowslips in a meadow. The present
writer recollects shivering with fear in a little
bed on ‘All Souls’ Eve,” many a year ago. It
was a common belief in the part of Ireland he
came from that on this evening the souls who
were condemned to walk about the earth till the
Day ot Judgment were allowed to enter in un-
der the roots of their living friends. Consequently
the hearth was swept clean, a bright fire kept
burning, and clean water set In a bowl where the
ghosts could get at It. Whisky was not supplied
them, probably because of a theory that it would
tall through their filmy forms, and the waste of
good msky is the unpardonable sin. Poor, sim-
ple-hearted people—who shall say that they will
not be found as wise in the end as those who go
about spouting of popular science and natural
agencies and the like! As if everything were not
natural. As if science were not simply the super-
stltioo of this time, as superstition was the science
of that, Such as cannot see the truth of this state-
ment can let it pass. We haven’t time, now, to
convince some people, and there isn’t enough time
left between now and the beginning of eternity to
convince others.
Men make pictures and someone sends
critics. This is the true rendering of the proverb.
In Paling’s window, George-street, Sydney, is to be
seen Maier’s painting ot “Christ before Pilate.”
Some millions of people regard Pilate as the cen-
tral flyure on tblg momentous occasion, A hun-
j dred times as many millions think Christ was.
I this is entirely a matter of opinion, and is alto-
gether dependent on whether a Jewish or a Chris-
: tian atmosphere .surrounded our adolescence. Of
one thing only wo can be certain. The God-man
who spoke from the Mount, pleaded before Pilate,
and perished on the cross, was Jewish, low-born,
ttnd dark. The evidence for this is unanswerable,
though indirect. Yet when realistic artists ven-
ture to represent the figures in sacred history as
they probably appeared, the idealists rise in a body
and denounce them. In Spain, the Madonnas are
all dark and nurse dark children—ln Holland, they
are fair and nurse fair. When our troops pushed
their way through the gorges of Abyssinia,
they lound in the Chapels representations of
i black virgins and thick-lipped saints. Wel-
1 Imgton, standing on a tuft of grass, with a cannon
I hall at his teet, was once exhibited as “The Battle
j of Waterloo.” Where will all this fustian end ?
I But to return. Speaking of Maler’s picture, the
Herald critic says:—“The face of Christ has
nothing of infinite beauty ’ in it . . . there is
lacking in the whole those qualities which men ex-
pect to find in such pictures—the face of rare beauty
, exquisite in sorrow, and full of the rarest charity. ’
the whole critique is pitched lu a deprecating,
mournful, minor key, because the Saviour’s face
knd bearing do not reach the critic’s high ideal,
t hus an artist is damned with faint praise because
las conception of an historical personage — how-
ever true it may be to nature, however consonant
with probability—differs from that of his judges!
T here is no fault found with the working out of
that conception-no lack of appreciation in minor
matters. The painter is condemned—to put it in
plain English—because Christ does not look so well
as he ought. Possibly Maier had before him the
words "He hath no form nor comeliness, and
when we shall see Him the* e is no beauty that we
should desire him.” But this does not satisfy the
Herald. 11 wants beauty, and will have it. This
subject suggests endJess speculation. Suppose,
lor instance (a rather visionary supposition), the
whole earth were Christian, and the chief shrine at
Koine. Pilgrims from all countries came there to
worship before a painting of the Saviour. The
picture was severely realistic (had been taken from
life) and represented a swarthy Jewish man. Ris-
ing from his knees, the Chinese would say, “Alas!
He is not almond-eyed;” the New Zealander, “He
is not tatooed;” the Herald critic, “He lacks
those qualities we expect.” And this brings us to
Pilate. Had Mr. M'Eliione been in Europe at the
time, we would know at once where the model
came from. But he was not, and we are in doubt.
Vanity Fair has discovered that Mr.
Parnell "should be relegated to the ranks of
O Donovan Rossa, and either be shut up or
banished from the country.” The discovery arose
out of a statement by Mrs. Parnell (the agitator’s
mother), that “ she had been deeply moved recently
by the execution of these fine young men In
Dublin, and she could not help expressing her sym-
nathy for them, even if they did inflict such an
injury upon her and her son.” If, according to
Vanity Fair, Mr. Parnell cannot, or will not,
explain away his mother’s sympathy with the
Phoenix Park assassins, he shiuId be “shut up or
banished from the country.” It is always hazard-
ous to venture an opinion concerning radical
political changes until a sufficient time has gone
by for the effect of the now laws to be considered
and judged. Regarding Ireland, however, it may
be broadly staled that the land legislation of the
last fifty years—particularly of the last five—has
been in the proper direction. Of course, the men
through whose efforts this legislation has been
brought about have to suffer abuse and misrepre-
sentation. They have to listen to “coward,”
“traitor,” “ assassin,” screamed into their ears by
the partisans of the order of things they are bent
on overthrowing. But when political excitement
runs high, the votaries of change need not expect
to pass through the conflict w.thout receiving
some of the mud thrown. To banish Mr. Parnell
because his foolish old mother said she was
sorry that a number of murderers had been
hanged, Is in such perfect keeping with the lines
on which Irish legislation has been hitherto con-
ducted, that wc find ourselves leaning to the
opinion that nothing but a local parliament of
extensive but limited powers will ever make the
two islands see how necessary they are to each
other, and how calamitous would be entire
political severance.
Frances G. Holden, of the Children’s
Hospital, writes:—” I met a young lady ot 18, some
time since, of wealthy parents, upon whom money
had been lavished to procure for her “ the very
best education.’ She had been for years at what
was universally conceded to be one of the very
best schools in one of the largest Australian cities.
Moreover, she was naturally a girl of intelligence
and good abilities. Will it be believed that—the
spine being one day casually mentioned—she asked
in perfect good faith whether ‘ that was not another
name for the hips V Another young lady of 20, in
precisely similar circumstances, expressed the
greatest astonishment—not unmixed with disgust
—upon happening to hear that a sheep had lungs :
she ‘ thought only human beings had those kind of ,
things.’ ”
Somebody wants to know why Irishmen—
Hanlan, Conley, Kennedy, Courtney, Riley,
MTnerny, Driscoll, Largan, Rush, and thereat—are
great rowers. Why ? Well, of course, because an
Irishman is never out of a row. laugabaljah I
Tear-an-ages I Cruiskeen Lawn!
THE LAST OF THE WINTER STYLES.


Hotel
CORNER CASTLEREAGH & BATHURST
STREETS, SYDNEY.
JAMES SHARP,
Late of the Collonnade Hotel, corner of Kina and
Castlereagh Street*, desires to inform his friends
and the public Generally, that he has removed to
the above Hotel, which has boon lately known as
the “Hyde Park Hotel,” and whicu no has tho-
roughly renovated. J. a. trusts that, by lus usual
strict attention to business, combined with the best
brands of Wines, Spirits, &c„ to merit a lair share
of patronage. J. 8. desires to state that be still
draws the famous
“SILVER CUP BEER.”
New south wales racing company’s
CONSULTATIONS on METROPOLITAN
STAKES (To bo RUN at KANDWICK, TUESDAY,
Sept. 4), and MELBOURNE CUP.
50,000 Shares at 10s. per Share—£25,000.
1st Horse £4000 I Starters £1000
2nd „ 20001 Non-Starters ... 2000
3rd „ 10001 ——
For 149 Horses £10,000
117 Prize Gifts.—260 Prizes in all.
1 Prize Gift
8 Prize Gifts, at 125 £1000
20 „ at £100 2000
40 „ at 50 2000
40 „ at 25 1000
£4000
2000
3 ;, ..1000
2 „ at £500 1000
4 ,. at 250 1000
117 Prize Gifts £15,000
Application by Letter only, addressed to the Secre-
tary, No. 2 Wentworth Court, Elizabeth-street;
or Box 255, Q.P.O., Sydney.
P.S.—Applicants will please state for which event.
All parties are requested to forward Drafts, P.O.
Orders, or Cheques ; if Cash, to register letters.
Results sent to Shareholders and published in the
Leading Weekly Papers of the Colonies.
The Drawing will take place before a Committee
of Shareholders. w. BURNHARD.
T A MaSCOTTE CONSULTATIONS.
METROPOLITAN, & MELBOURNE CUP, 1883,
Metropolitan, 5000 shares at 10s. each ... £2500
Melbourne Cup, 10,000 shares at 10s. each £6000
SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE.
Prospectus on application.
The La Mascotte Company thanks the public for
their support in previous consultations, and hopes
for a continuance of their patronage for this pro-
gramme.
Application, by letter only.
Applicants please state for which event,
D. LINDO, No- 8 TatteraaH's Chambers, Hunter-
street, and Box 723, P.O., Sydney.
03000 on MELBOURNE CUP,
<5b 1883.
The Third Consultation of my 1883 Series.
■AUSTRALASIA” SWEEP.
12,000 Shares, at 5s each.—An even 4, £1.
First Horse
Second Horse
Third Horse
Starters divide
Non-Starers
Total. £2000.
£1000
500
250
150
100
10 Prizes at £25—£230
50 „ 10- 60)
50 „ 5-250
£1000
xuim, Grand total, £3000
The success of former events induces me to an-
nounce the next on the Melbourne Cup, the
greatest racing event of the year, as above.
Results advertised in leading papers, and for-
warded to all subscribers. A pound secures four
chances—not one only. Ten per cent, is deducted
for all expenses. Applicants are requested to en-
close notes, P.O.O., or crossed cheques (to which
exchange must be added), and 4d. stamps tor reply
and result. Register letters.
Address —“ AUSTRALASIA,"
Care of Mr. H. J. FRANKLIN,
Printer and Publisher,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
“D
MEL
M
O
N
D.
LBOURNE CUP CONSULTATION 1883.
Capital £10,000 in 30,000 Shares of 10 shillings each
DISTRIBUTED AS FOLLOWS:—
3 Prizes of £250 each, £500
First Horse.. .
Second Horse .
Third Horse
Starters divide.
Non-starters .
£3000
3000
1000
1000
500
5 Prizes of 100
10 Prizes of 50
20 Prizes of 25
50 Prizes of 10
500
500
500
600
£10,000
Application by letter onl^ enclosing stamp, to
Care of O. Schieblich.
Watchmaker and Jeweller,
17 Little Collins-street East, Melbourne,
(Near Colonial Bank.)
Prizes paid one day after drawing, and H( mi
paid two days after event.
Result slips posted to each Subscriber, and ala)
advertised in daily and weekly papers. Shares i em
per return post. Prospectus on application.
Letters containing cash should be registered.
If country cheques, must bear exchange.
N.B.—“Diamond,” in thanking numerous cll< mu
for their support in previous successful rating
seasons, invites their co-operation in the above.
£3000 For 2s. 6d. £3000
A COLOSSAL FORTUNE for HALF-A-CROWN
The “GREAT VICTORY ” SWEEP on the MEL-
BOURNE CUP, 1883.
To be Run on the 6th November.
This Gigantic Sweep, offering advantages to the
public never before attempted, is the property of
a bond fide Company with responsible directors.
CAPITAL: £10,000, divided into 80,000 Shares of
2s. 6d. each.
Also, over 1000 Prizes guaranteed, and distributed
as follows:—
1st horse ..
2nd horse ..
3rd horse ..
Starters divide
Non-starters do
20 Prizes at £50
£3000 I
1000 i
500
500 |
250
1000
40 Prizes at £25 ..£1000
100
200
750
do.
do.
do.
Total.
1000
1000
750
£10,000
Not less
We shall send 9 tickets for a pound,
than 3 sent to any single address. Send P. O. order,
cheques, or bank notes. If stamps are sent, add
exchange at the rate of Is. in the pound. Should
coin be sent, register letter. Please send 3d. extra
for membership.
The drawing will take place on the 1st November,
and will be conducted by a committee of 150 Share-
holders drawn from the entire body. The result
will be posted to all Shareholders immediately,
and advertised throughout the colonies.
Tickets sent by return post.
Write at once for prospectus. No charge.
Address—” VICTORY,”
Care of George Robertson, 94 Bourke-street,
Next Opera House, Melbourne.
Foster’s Bugle Brand.
ASK FOR
r , _
Olfrfrtghtanfr
LATE
’Dam es walker
EDINBURGH
7i
Registered
T
10 be had from ALL WINE AND SPIRIT MER-
CHANTS, and WHOLESALE from the
SOLE AGENTS:
JOSEPH BOYD & SON,
1 CHANGE ALLEY. PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Near the Circular Quay).
To be procured in Cases, Casks, Octaves, and Jars
tejg- piease read Certificates of its purity ; also.
Certificates from the 43nd Royal Highland Regi-
ment, “THE BLACK WATCH,” and the list High-
land Light Infantry, &c., &c.. as supplied them by
TAMES WALKER, for 14 years, till ms death, and
still supplied to them by JAMB§ HA I) DOW & CO.,
the purchasers of James Walker s business, with
the right to use his name on all Labels, Invoices,
Seals, and his Trade marks and symbols.
0T" Notice—The above label registered.
JOSEPH BOYD & SON.
WRIGHT, HEATON & GO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom house
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE :
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
branch offices.
Southern District, N.S.W.:
Goulburn
Yass
Downing
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rock
Culcairn
Cowabee
Narandera
Hulong
Carratnool
Hay
Western District, N.8.W.:
Capertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
Nevertire
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblln
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
Northern
Morpeth
Gunnedah
Narrabri
Walgett
District, N.S.W.:
Brewarrina
Tamworth
Uralla
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby
South-Western Line:
Yeulba
Cambooya
Central Line:
Rockhampton
Bogantungan
Emerald
Capella
Comet
Northern Line:
Townsville Kavenswood Junction
Charters Towers
Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M CULLOCH & CO., LIMITED.
Agencies in all parts of the world.
UMBRELLAS
re-covered.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have y ourU mbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
cuted.
AND
CHEST AFFECT
ALL
NO
D. & R. BRADFORD,
Ironfounders, General
Blacksmiths, &c.,
“CITY FOUNDRY,”
JSB" 121 LIVERPOOL STREET,
and at
301 ELIZABETH STREET,
Between Bathurst and Park Streets.
AU kinds of Ornamental Castings, Wrought Iron
Pal leadings, Wrought and Cast Iron Girders, Cast
Iron Water Pipes, Connections, Water and tire
Plugs.
Estimates given tor ail kinds of Innwork, &o.
KIRKER, GREER, & CO., DISTILLERS
BELFAST and GLASGOW.
LOCH DHU, very oldest and purest Scotch
Whiskey.
SHAMROCK, very oldest and purest Irish
Whiskey.
Won 4 Gold Medals and Australian Exhibitions.
Government Analyst says; Unusually pure,
mellow, and well-matured.
FROM ALL SPIRIT MERCHANTS.
Agent: G. ADAMS,
119 Pitt-st., Sydney, and Fllnders-st., Melbournne
-^yiLCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn shelters
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
&c. &c. &c.
hebblewhite & CO.
416 GEORGE STREET.
BLEND
JMASKi
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.-Tbis Is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO.» Solo
Agents.
P. KIR B Y,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TJELd.erta,ls:or,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
JOHN DUNKS,
IMPORTER OF
Us aid Tritjtlts
AND ALL THE NECESSARY
Fittings for same,
363 Pitt Street, Sydney.
3
=I
cr
=1
Si
e
i
I-
V ■
1
5sS.H
1
S<a
s
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ys in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognae.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &o.
Repairs by London workmen.
c. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STRb E'l.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
TO CONNOISEURS of WHISKEY & BRANDY.
W. & A. Gilley’s CASTLE BRAND WHIS-
KEY and LOR EXTRAIT BRANDY are the
oldest and purest spirits imported.
TUCKER & CO., Agents,
377 George-street.
HUST’S BOOT EMPORIUM, 404 GkOBQB St.,
near King-street.
Gents’ Boots, French Calf or Kid, superior quality,
from 10s. fid. „ , _
Superior Ladies’ Extra High Glace Kid Button
Boots, superior quality, from 10s. 6d.
Ladies’ Evening Shoes, a great variety, from 4s. 6d.
M
ELBOURNE CUP, 1883
LEVIATHAN “ADAMASTOR” COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £20,000 in 40,000 SHARES of 10s Each.
624 PRIZES (more or less), £12,750 for STARS,
and £7250 for flORSES.
Plan of Astronomical Distribution:
First Horse (winner of the Melbourne Cup)..
Second Horse
Third Horse
Starters (divide)
Non-starters (do)
£2000 V
£3000
1500
750
800
1200
♦** First Star
*** Second Star ..
*** Third Star ..
1000 V
500 V
12 stars of £200 each, 100 stars of £100 each, 20
stars of £50 each, 20 stars ot £40 each, 45 stars of £25
each, 100 towns of £10 each, 200 towns of £8 each,
85 towns of £6 each, and “ the comet ” £40.
“ Adamastor,” in thanking his subscribers for the
liberal support that he has received from them tor
the past three years, and in consequence of the
yearly increase of subscribers, finds it necessary to
double his programme, which he begs herewith to
S l *A are requested to forward drafts, P.O.
orders, or cheques; if cheques, exchange must be
added, and in all cases postage fees; if cash, to
register letter. Application by letter only, ad-
dr6SS6d~~ *
“ADAMASTOR,” care of L. A. Pereira, 34
Bourke-street, west, Melbourne: Box 473, G.P.O.,
Sydney; and Little’s Bass Hotel, corner Pitt and
Market Streets, Sydney. . . .
P S.—Results sent to country shareholders, and
published in The Australasian, Age, and Sydney
Town and Country.


The promoters of the Juvenile Industrial
Exhibition. Parramatta, have issued their schedule
from Avhich wo gather that the concern is under
the control of two patrons, fourteen Adcepatrons,
a president, about a gross of A'ice-presidents, and a
score or so of committee men.
The standard of examination for admis-
sion to the N.S.W. High Public Schools is higher
than that for the Civil Service. Though it is
patently inconsistent that the Civil Service exam-
inations should be thus Ioav, yet it doesn’t much
signify, seeing that the Parliamentary resolution
re the necessity of appointees to the C.S. having
first passed that examination is as often ignored
as not.
Alfonso, like a true Bourbou, is seeking to
quell rebellion by suppressing the liberty of the
Press. Following the foolish example set by
Charles X. of France in 1880, by promulgating ob-
noxious ordinances against liberal journalism, it is
more than likely that ho will have to further
imitate Charles Dix by making tracks lor England
as a political refugee, along with his marquises
and other traps.
Docker’s paper (iu the Sydney University
Review) on “Oaths aud the Competency of Wit-
nesses ” contends that the judicial oath is not bmd-
ing; that those who entertain the superstitious
idea of the force of an oivth are generally influ-
enced by other superstitions which counteract its
effect; that the law ought not to assume men to be
liars: and that, instead of preventing falsehood,
oaths actually tend to increase it. On all of which
points we say ditto to Docker.
A foolish contemporary says (as if the order
of the appraisement were wrong)“ Appraise-
ment of criminality in Adelaide—Assault and rob-
bery, four years; forgery, five years; embezzle-
ment, seven years.” The terms may be too brief,
but the order’s right, since the more sneaking the
crime the heavier should be the penalty. There’s
some pluck required to commit an assault, while
your embezzler is often a mean hound, without
one redeeming point.
Should a daring band of bushrangers seek
to emulate the brigands who entered Salonika and
carried off the Governor, by marching into Sydney,
embezzling Loftus, and holding him to ransom in
the fastneasoa of the Blue Mountains, the coup
wouldn’t affect affairs one whit. The rascals would
have their sport tor nothing, Loftus would possibly
suffer a little inconvenience, a few pet cochins
might pine; but, of so little use or ornament is the
typical Australian Governor of the present day
that after a slight spasm of temporary excitement,
the thing would blow over in a day or so.
, Parliament should do a little Bill, enacting
that the baker shall sell cake loaves as batch bread
by weight; and, at the same time, materfa-r.ilias
should make it a rule of her daily life to have all
loaves supplied her (whether “ batch,” “ cake,” or
“ fancy ”) Avoighed on delivery. To pray for daily
bread, and then through indolence or credulity to
“ take it short,” is to pray Avithout watching, not-
Avithstanding that the order runs, “Avateh and
pray.”
Eighteen months ago a vessel from India
to England passed through the Suez Canal. There
Avere many passengers, among others a Private
EAvards, of the Hi ties, Avho having been tried by
Court-martial, was on his Avay to England with the
oloasant certainty of penal servitude. They never
got him beyond the Red Sea, where he disappeared
as mysteriously as a mole under a stream of clean
water. One Avould think that, having made his
escape, he Avould keep clear of soldiers for the
future. Not so. He Avas picked up at Aldershot
Impudently Avatchlng the drilling of a squad of
recruits.
There is a Chinese stye atNaraudera, where
betAveen throe and four hundred Chinamen live.
With them they have six or seven European
Avomen. Judge Forbes, when he was up there
lately, said that “it Avas a disgrace to our civilisa-
tlon that Chinamen should be allowed to come
into this country, bringing with them their_yices
and diseases, and polluting innocent young Euro-
pean girls, thereby leading them to degration, and
ultimately ruin and death.” We agree with the
Judge as far as the disgrace and the disease are
concerned, but we can hardly see what justification
there is for sympathy with the girls who are led
astray. If they were not naturally bad—and bad
In the very worst way—they would run small risk
from Chinamen.
A softy writes to the Yass Courier over
the name “ Nemo ” saying “ I was startled the
other day by a report that the boys attending our
Public School were indulging on the school
grounds in the pastime of boxing with gloves;
that it was countenanced, and even indulged in, by
one of the subordinate teachers (more power to
him), who was trying conclusions with one of the
pupils, and that it was likely to become an or-
ganised thing amongst them, as they were talking
of forming a club for that purpose. If such re-
port be true, I trust that the board will take steps
to suppress at once this growing evil—this black-
guard recreation—and nip in the bud this morbid
tendency for the ring.” What wants nipping in
the bud is the morbid tendency displayed by softs
like “Nemo ” for the goody-goody milksopism of
the rosewater school.
The master of a vessel entering a Queens-
land port and carrying more than one Chinese for
every ton tons of tonnage is liable to a heavy
fine. So the steamer Venice arrived Avith more
than the proper complement of “Chlnkies," and
the captain Avas mulct. It Avas urged that the
Chinese were passengers for Sydney and Mel-
bourne, and had no intention to pollute Queens-
land Avith their presence, but this availed nothing.
This common-sense vieAv of the law will become
more apparent if wo consider that if a ship-load of
Chinese proceeding to anyAvhero happen to be
driA r en into a Queensland port throusrh Avant of
water or stress of Aveather, the captain mint be
tlned. There is nothing like a really impartial law,
that people can’t evade.
There is a general election iu Queensland,
and the air is heavy with patriotic protestations.
Every elector is to have his own railivay station,
court-house, and post office. If a public house, a
church, and a gaol were added, things might come
round. These could bo easily erected, as there is
only a debt of £~f a head. The Premier’s right
boAver, is that he sticks to his friends. With
this he expects to rake in the votes, unless the
“joker” is out. . . . Morehead, the late Post-
master-General, resigned his sent in the Upper
House to contest the “Valley ” against one Beattie,
a hatter. Some of the former’s injudicious friends
say they require “more head” and less “hat.”
This will probably lose their candidate his seat.
Save us, &c. . . . Price, the member for Wide
Bay, drinks whisky; while Peter M‘L?an, another
legislator, drinks 'water. Observing them leave
the Assembly together, a member (Boyd) remarked,
“ There goes whisky and water.” Queensland wit
is something like Talleyrand’s. . . . 109 Chinese
Avere landed from the Whampoa, and the “ brawny
sons of toil ” are placing the fact in the front rank
of grievances. The Celestials pay £10 as poll-tax,
Avhich is refunded Avhen they leave. When, there-
fore, an Oriental Avishes to visit the land of his
birth, he seek out a new arrival, gives him £7 or £8
for his receipt, SAvoars he is the person mentioned
there, obtains £10 from the Government, and de-
parts, impressed Avith the ’cuteness of Europeans.
“ It is such a violation of nature,” says the
Canterbury Times, “to dart out of the bright
clear air and the sunshine, and the awakening of
nature, into a stuffy bar, and there toss off a tiery
stimulant.” This is no doubt very true. But there
are a good many things we hope to see before
observing the undertaker hanging round the area
railings, looking us hard in the face as if avc Avere
interfering with his business by not dying decently.
Niagara, Killarney, Como, the Alps, Spicer, Dan
O’Connor, a Supreme Court Judge in hxs slippers,
and John BroAvn—[N.B. All these, and more, were
on our list, but the last has uoav to go. If we could
only get a photograph of that “monotone” they
are raising to him, death Avould have no terrors
for us]—are among the number. But we would
forego all for a half-hour’s tete-a-tetc with the
Canterbury Ti.aies man who Avrote the foregoing.
Of course the betting is immensely in favour of
his not having seen the sun for years, except
through the Avindow of a public-house cellar.
Bless you, Ave are all the same. The man in the
“ Salvation Army ” Avho bawls the loudest about
grace and the Saviour’s second advent, has been,
and probably is the biggest scoundrel in the crowd.
You remember the “tract” story? Well, a lady
was passiqp one of these upon a dissipated-looking
man, with frowsy hair and black malodorous pipe.
“ It may save you,” she said beseechingly. “ Bless
you, inarm, I writes ’em,” was the reply.
Wigzell, the pernqaier of Oxford-street,
has opened Turkish baths, and has sent us some
complimentary tickets. We need hardly say that
we Anew this action of Wigzell’s as a deliberate per-
sonal insult. But we shall bo revenged. We adore
the Corporation. Therefore we ioIIoav the ex-
ample of the Sydney alderman Avho “didn’t see
the use of baths, and hadn’t bathed for tAventy
years.” Wo shall now go to Wigzell. When he
has shampooed us for six hours, he may possibly
come across some Christian hide on which the sun
hasn’t shone since Parkes shinned along with a
skull and cross-bones banner at the head of a Char-
tist procession.
Temora knows little Bailey no more. The
broad little figure crowned with the verandah-
brimmed helmet has departed, it may be for years
and it may be for ever, from the place which it
once overshadowed with the glory of his name.
We have quoted from Byron in the foregoing
sentence, because we could find no poet of a later
date great enough to do justice to Bailey. Genius
must always be interpreted by genius. But
through Temora loses, Gundagai gains. Mr.
Bailey, we are glad to say. has not deserted litera-
ture. The cause of civilization, the march of
mind, and the local pump question will all be sup-
ported and advocated in nis new journal The
Gundagai Herald, Pastoral Gazette and
Parmer’s Chronicle. So that there is still hope
for the future of the world, whatever pessmists
may say.
Printed and Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. (Limited), Pitt-8t., Sydney, N.S.W
This is the lovely form of sweet Charity—as she appears to Skinflint, the millionaire, who, generous for the lirst time on his death bed,
iue lovei* xuixu wil fca £50,000 to “deserving institutions.” Charity (loq.): “Sign!


OB
A
EI \
'A
6K
ewA^
£
vr/i
3 MILS >&
m
Wfj ••^ : N'#' -v
Mptyprni.* *■'" '.
sqs ®eopee street
PAPERHANGINGS!
with
DADOES. BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSERY PAPERS.
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, &C.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwick,
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &c.
Haymarket Auction Rooms
AJVD
FURNITURE BAZAAR,
CORN EXCHANGE BUILDINGS,
724 GEORGE STREET.
The cheapest place in Sydney to purchase every
description of Household Furniture.
1ST HOUSES FURNISHED on the Time-payment
System.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY Instalments taken.
Open—Mondays and Wednesdays, 9 to 9
Saturdays • . . . 9 to 10
Tuesdays and Fridays . . 9 to 6
JOHN P. LISTER, Proprietor.
C. B. MODINI,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
|3B'“ TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading 1 Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 602 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery Just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborne ; also Angelo Bor-
donl, of Brescia, Italy.
J LAWLER, 608 George-street, Bedding Manu-
• facturer, Importer of Brass and Iron Bed-
steads, American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair,
Kapok, and Cotton Flock. Established 1860.
SOHO BAZAAR,
352 GEORGE STREET
(Paling’s Old Premises).
THIS BAZAAR, which has Just been OPENED
will be found to contain a superior Assort
ment of
Brie a Brae, Articles of Vertu,
Terra Cotta, Chinaware, &c.,
Tricycles, French and German
Model Dolls, Count HarraclTs
Bohemian Vases, Parisian and
Viennese Leather Goods,
Parian Marble Figures,
and all varieties of
FANCY GOODS AND TOYS.
INSPECTION INVITED.
Sola.© Sazaaz
352 George Street.
Atlas Foundry & Engineer-
ing Company,
HAY STREET SYDNEY.
Engineers, Boilermakers and Shipbuilders,
Iron and Brassfounders, Coppersmiths and
Millwrights.
The above Aim are prepared to undertake con-
tracts for the manufacture of Marine and Station-
ary Engines* Boilers, and Girder Work, Quartz-
crushing, Sawmill, Sheep-washing, Mining, Sugar-
mills, aud ail other descriptions of Machinery, with
latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for metal.
No. 17 ROYAL ARCADE.
MR. DAYID DUNK,
(Of Paddington)
Begs to inform his old customers and public gener-
ally that he has opened a branch of his FRUITER-
ERS’ ESTABLISHMENT at
No. 17 ROYAL ARCADE.
His great experience, viz., 30 years, is a guarantee
of his ability to excel all others. Remember the
address-
17 ROYAL ARCADE, and
451 South Head Road, Paddington.
J. W. R. CLARKE,
Bookseller & Stationer
5 and 6 MARKET BUILDINGS,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite Market Street.
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
fji H E MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWAYS PURE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations.
Butter.
This is either manufactured at their own depdt
or obtained from the best butter-makers in the
Southern dairy districts.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made.’ Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
31 HARBOUR STREET.
!
W A T S « Si AND CRANE,
▼ ▼ SILVER, NICKEL, & GOLD PLATERS.
BRASS FOUNDERS AND MANUFACTURERS.
Old Electropjatod Ware, Cruets, Spoons, and
Forks, Tea Services. &c., re-silver plated equal to
new, at Moderate Charges.
NICKEL PLATING on Brass, Iron, and Metal
Furniture and Fittings of all kinds in Best Style at
Lowest Prices.
JEWELLERY, &c., WELL GILT.
STEAM, BRASS, & ELECTROPLATING WORKS,
898 PITT STREET,
HAWKES AND COMPANY,
TATTERSALJj’e HORSE BAZAAR
and
SALE 1URD 8,
CORNER of CASTLEREAgh and HUNTER
STREETS, SYUNEV.
Sales Dally, or outside when required.
Horses kept at Livery; excellent accoinmodatloa
and fodder.
All kinds of Vehicles and Horses on Hire, day
_ r or night.
Weddings and Picnic Parties supplied with good
carriages.
TRAMS SET DOWN AT THE DOOR.
Conveyances fitted with Hampers for Excursion
Parties.
Sale, Livery, and Let-out Department entirely
separate.
“WHAT IS A SECRET?”
SOMETHING told to everybody in a whisper.
Please tell all your friends this Secret, that
they will study both “ Comfort and Economy ” in
having their supply of WOOD and COAL from
NOTTING & CO.,
COAL AND FUEL MERCHANTS,
Cowper’s Wharf,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO BAT.
M. T H 0 M A ,
IMPORTER OF
tST WORKS OF ART,
GERMAN & SWISS WOOD CARVINGS,
ARCADE BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
W.
KERR,
Watchmaker'
Jeweller,
and
Silversmith,
"AS JUST OPENED HIS NEW PREMISE
S44 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the TOWN HALL,
With a magnificent stock of Diamond, Roman
. „and Vienna Jewellery,
GOLD AND SILVER WATCHES & CLOCKS,
I ootbuii, Cricketing, and Trophy Speciality.
Note the Address—
644 GEORGE STREET.
Ite
“HISTORY REPEATS ITSELF.”
As Eyo tempted the First Man, so EVE TEMPTS
THE PRESENT MAN; but, luckily, not the same
Eve, but
T©,iaa.©s Eve,
149 KING STREET,
Opposite Theatre Royal Entrance.
With the Best Brands of AM Tobacco and Cigars.
BULL-DOG ALE.—1T is not the clearness
or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALE
that preserves this i rand first in public
estimation. Common bitter crude beers are
made very fine, but no other brand has the
same mellow vinous chaiacter, the fullness on
the palate, and the great !• eeping qualities of the
BULL-DOG ALB. Consumers are therefore cau-
tioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred
to as equal in quality to BULL-DOG. CATTELL
& CO., Agents. Newcastkj Agents: WOOD
BROTHERS & CO.
J.
SIMPSON,
IRONFOUNDER, &c.
Cahperdoww Foundry,
Lambert-street, Comperdown, West Sydney,
Manufactures all kinds of ornamental Palisading,
Frieze, Fringe, and Brackets, Plain and Fluted
Columns, Window Mullions, Colonial Oven Grates,
and General Castings.
tST* N.B.—Orders from the country punctually
attended to, and forwarded by road, rail, or water.
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
A CURB GUARANTEED.
5 mtuA
MIRV
TREATMENT
kR. B. C. WEST’S NERVE & BRAIN TREAT-
MENT.
A guaranteed specific for hysteria, dizziness, con-
vulsions, fits, nervous neuralgia, headache, nervous
prostration caused by the use of alcohol or tobacco,
wakefulness, mental depression, softening of the
brain resulting in Insanity and leading to misery,
decay, and death; premature old age, caused by
over-exertiou of the brain or over-indulgence.
Each box contains one month’s treatment, 5s. a
box, or six boxes for 25s.; sent by mall prepaid on
receipt of price. We guarantee six boxes to cure
any case. With each order received for six boxes,
accompanied with 25s., the purchaser will receive
the manufacturer’s written guarantee to refund
the money if the treatment does not effect a cure
Guarantees issued by all chemists and druggists in
Australia.
HOUL1NGDALE & SON,
JEWELLERS AND WATCHMAKERS,
GOLDSMITHS HALL,
9S XaHiELg'-stx.eet, S3rd.xa.e3r,
JNVITE inspection of their LARGE and
BJ
JZ
E3
r
zr
£,<J.HOLL INC DALE MUtchm/kc*
HOLU NCOfl
VARIED STOCK in
Gold and Silver Watches,
BRACELETS, BROOCHES, EARRINGS,
Necklets, Lockets, Studs, &c.,
all of the most exquisite designs, and of the
best Colonial Gold. '
Rotherham’s and Crbfe’s best
English Patent Lever
Watches from £5 to £10 10s.
Single-stone Diamond Rings, of
the purest water .. .. from £7 to £75.
Ladies’ Sets, Brooches and Earrings, the most
varied stock in the city to select from, in
gold and silver.
SPECIALITY :
THE BlISHHAN’S SILVER ENGLISH
LEVER WATCH,
well adapted for hard riding, with strong silver
Albert attached, £S. Guarantee given for
two years.
Goods posted free to all parts of the colony.
Watches and Jewellery repaired by efficient
workmen.
ALL WORK GUARANTEED.
PEAPES stxxd. SH-^rxr
Have recently opened large shipments of their now celebrated brand of
Standard Ready-made Clothing.
These Goods are All Wool, and the cut, fit, and workmanship is not to be excelled anywhere.
“STANDARD”TWEED SUITS, THIRTY-TWO SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE
“STANDARD - TWEED SUITS, W GE ° RGE STREET -
“STANDARD” TWEED SUITS, TWO “ d SHAW ’ 8 ’ ° E0RGE STOEET '
"STANDARD ” TWEED SUITS, FOETY.FIV^SmLLINll.^’ 8 ’ ° E0R ° E 8TREET -
“STANDARD ” TWEED SUITS, FIFTY SHAW ' 8 ’ GB0RGE STREBr -
NOTE- PE APES and SHAW’S, GEORGE STREET.
?A TSP£ of £ he T^, eeds ln each Pf 106 Quoted forward on application, together with
nvc'r>ji?w^ ctions for self-measurement, post free. ■
OvUnm'j'ma riNTER ’ in Bght, medium, and heavy textures, 25s, 80s, 36s.
’ SPECIALLY , EXTRA LENGTHS, and exceptionally well finished, 42b,
U&91£WE ed ULSTERS, LINED WOOL, 30s, 35s, 42s, 45s, 50s.
Nl ' vai : i?t ESSING GOWN3 ’ in Scotch Knickerbocker Felt Wool, and Paisley, in great
NEW RAILWAY RUGS in Wool, Plain and Fancy Seal, extra sizes, from 15s 6d upwards.
A MAGNIFICENT SHIPMENT OF BAGS.
£ E -£-DSTONE’S IN BUFF AND ENAMELLED HIDE
THE EXCELSIOR BRIEF BAG
THE BEACONSFIELD, and a variety of other shapes
„ TTT 5,2£ tmanteaus and Overland Trunks, in all sizes.
CHRISTY’S HATS, CHRISTY’S liATS, CHRISTY’S HATS,
ALL THE NEWEST AND LATEST LONDON SHAPES,
In Black Silk, Drab Snell, Hard Felts.
Travelling Hats and Caps, in great variety.
THE TURKISH FEZ.
PEAPES & SHAW, George-street.
THE TURKISH FEZ.
FEAFBS & SHAW, George-street.
A CUP OF GOOD COFFEE
IS WHAT YOU WANT, BUT SELDOM GET.
M 1Sr THEN ASK YOUR GROCER OR STOREKEEPER FOR
*• G- Churchwooa's Crown Brand
BLENDED FROM THE FINEST MOCHA, JAMAICA, and CEYLON BERRIES.


30
ALEXANDER’S
Is tlxe Best
FOR HAND OR MACHINE SEWING
ASK FOR IT, AND SEE THAT YOU GET IT.
£
x*
s>
aT
£■§5
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xx Everything Sold here. Send for Patterns. We send goods as far as Tenterfield, Bourke, and Albury. Give us a Trial Order. xx
xx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
HI! ffltiltr yu live ii Sydney a in tit Giutty, YOU GAFT Eli!
HORDERN’S DRAPERY EMPORIU
172a, 174, 174a, 176, 176a, 178a, 209, 211, PITT STREET.
XIII
xx
xx
XX
XX
Xx
xx
XX
_ XX
5 XX
r xx
xx',
XX
XX
XX
HOEDEE1T BEOTHEE
211 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, NEAR KING STREET.
XX
XX
xx.
XX
9 xx
xx
xx
xx
xx
Brilliant
Lustre. ORIENTAL GOLD. Emume BEm
THE BEST CLASS AND MOST TASTEFUL DESIGNS ONLY, and is
Perfectly indistinguishable from the most costly Sterling Gold Jewellery.
ALTHOUGH SOLD AT PRICES WHICH REPRESENT ONLY A FRACTION OF THE COST OF STERLING GOLD JEWELLERY OF IDENTICAL WORKMANSHIP.
We want to do business with people throughout Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
RESIDENTS of SYDNEY and VISITORS from
the COUNTRY are respectfully Invited to inspect
our Goods. We count It no trouble to show them,
and no iniurv if no nurchase is made.
Paresis h Post, os Approval.
We are glad to have visitors, because we know
that our goods please everyone, and that those who
do not purchase will speak of our Jewellery to
their aominintanne in a wav f hnf will tin
ttuu uo mjury II nu purci
: IB uiauc.
I ■ IB
To save customers the trouble of comnillntr a list, we mako un nnafni ami n *tranfi.m iia+a
I
tneir acquaintance m a way mat will do usservice.
-IU
No. 1.
Gentleman’s Watch, horizontal movement,
Oriental Gold case, open face with crys-
tal glass, with handsome Oriental Gold
Albert, for .. - £3 0 0
No. 2.
Same as above, except that the watch has
hunting case, for 2 0 0
tar- Please observe. We do not protend that
these are fifty-guinea watches ; but we do affirm
that they are good, honest watches, excellent time-
keepers, articles which do us credit and give satis-
faction to our customers. In appearance they are
indistinguishable from expensive gold watches.
No. 3.
Gentleman’s Silver English Hunting Lever
Watch, capped and jewelled, with Ori-
ental Gold Chain £4 4 0
Oriental Gold Compass Charm .. .. 0 13 6
Tasteful Breast-pin, Oriental Gold .. ..076
Brilliant Alaska Diamond, Oriental Gold
.King 0 7 6
Oriental Gold Shirt Studs, set of four ..086
£6 0 0
The watch in the No. 3 parcel is a first-class
article, such as is usually sold at from six to seven
guineas. Wo deal direct with the manufacturers,
and on a large scale, and thus we get special terms,
and are enabled to share the advantage with our
customers. The Jewellery, we need scarcely say,
can't be told from sterling gold articles. Tho work-
manship is identical with the best. Thus, by buy-
ing this watch from us, purchasers, as a matter of
fact, secure the other articles as a free gift.
No. 4.
A genuine Waltham Watch, nickel case,
open face, crystal glass, as supplied to
the N.S. Wales Kailway Department,
with splendid Oriental Gold Albert ,. £3 0 0
No. 5.
Same as No. 4, except that the Watch has
sterling silver hunting case, with chain
as before .. .. .. .. .. 3 10 0
Note.— We buy these watches by the thousand 1 ;
otherwise wo could not sell them at the price.
o uiuko up uaeim ana attractive lists as lonna
Sportsmen, Bicyclists, Pedestrians, and
Oarsmen—Observe 1
No. 6.
A Racing Chronograph nickel-cased watch,
double dials, splendid timekeepers,
with patent fly-back, marking quarter
seconds, with Oriental Gold Albert ..£40 <
No. 7.
Same as above, except that this case is
silver instead of nickel, with Oriental
Gold Chain 65<
Ladies I Please Note.
No. 8.
Lady’s Oriental Gold Watch, handsomely
chased case, full jewelled, highly-
finished works, with handsome treble
chain, two slides and two tassels, of
Oriental Gold, only 2 15 (1
iva : —
"I No. 8 is a gift which will astonish any re'
| cipient. Each article is thoroughly good. The
| action of the watch is Identical with what is put
i into sterling gold cases, of same design, and sold
I for £8 and £10, and there Is no difference Id the
: appearance.
0 | No. 9.
! Lady’s Oriental Gold Brooch and Earrings£0 IS 0
J Lady's exquisite Necklet and Locket, Orl-
| ental Gold 115 0
I Lady’s gem set Gold Ring (real stones) .. 010 0
£3 0 0
Specially Observe.
If the articles do not answer expecta-
tion on receipt, re-pack them at once and send
them back. If this is done within two days
or, where mails are few, by the first poet
0 after receipt, and the articles are not injured, we
will return the money, deducting only the trifle |
expended on postage. You can keep any one j
article and return the rest, and wc will return the
money for the articles not kept.
Every watch sold by us will be rated and acoom- i
panied by a written warranty for two years.
We have a very large stock of Earrings, Brooches, 1
ladies and gent’s Alberts, Kings set with real stones, j
crystals, and Alaska diamonds, emeralds, rubies, i
and Italian pearls ; Lockets, Necklets, Collarettes, j
Fancy Charms, Breast-pins, Studs, Solitaire Neck |
Studs (some very splendid Alaska brilliants). The
prices vary.
Send us from £1 to £10, with a list of what you !
want, and wo will make a choice for you to the
best of our judgment and forward same. If D0 |
approved, and immediately returned, we will
refund as above, or make any desired substitution.
The foregoing are but a few assortments sped- |
fled to save customers the trouble of makings lw
It will bo sufficient when ordering to give e
number of -the lot, and enclose P.O.O. for t e |
amount Payable to The Oriental Gold Co.
474 George-strecf, Sydney,
OPPOSITE MARKETS.
ONLY.
■a
: ■
Si.
This cut is the exact* size
and appearance of
THE REVOLVER for ONEPOUND!
A beautifully-finished article, nickel-plated through-
out, vulcanite stock. 32 calibre ; 5 shot.
Sent to any part of Australia or New Zealand for £1.
Oriental Gold Company, 474 George-st., Sydney.
* Beware of Imposters who cut out this advertisement and stick it in their windows over a common black iron revolver.
H P GREGORY. H. SHAW SMITH. 8. W. GREGORY.
H. F. GREGORY & GO.*
Engineers&Machinery Merchants
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR
Fay & Co.’s Woodworking Machinery Korting’s Injectors
Tanlte Co.’s Emery Wheels and Machines Eclipse Windmills
Blake’s Brass-lined Special Steam Pumps Sturtevant’s Fans.
A LARGE STOCK OF THE ABOVE ALWAYS IN OUR STORES,
as well as all
SAW MILL, PLANING MILL, AND MINING REQUISITES,
17 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Printed and Put) Us bed by "The Bulletin ” Newspaper Con
SYDNEY BICYCLE CLUB 10-mlles Amateur
Championship, 50 Guinea Cup, Saturday,
August 4th, 1883,
•WAS WON ON
An “ Andrew’s” Sanspareil
231bs. Racing Bicycle,
In the grand time of 38min. 1834sec. ;
All riders, starting from scratch, rode the Sans-
pareil Bicycle aud Excelsior Tricycle.
BAYLISS, THOMAS & CO-,
68 King Street
npany (Limited), >4 Pin Street, Sydney, New Sonin Wales.
