

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 1.—No. 29. —New Series
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 1. 1883.
6*.
THE CIRCULATION OF “THE BULLETIN ”
7S NOW MORE THAN DOUBLE THAT OF
ANY OTHER WEEKLY NEWSPAPER IN
N.S.W.—THAT OF ONE VERY OLD ESTAB-
LISHED PAPER , WHICH EXCEEDS “ THE
BULLETIN'S" BY ABOUT ONE-FIFTH,
ALONE EXCEPTED. THE CIRCULATION
OF “THE BULLETIN" IS THE SECOND
GREATEST AMONG THE WEEKLIES OF
AUSTRALASIA.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 1. 1883.
A Moral from Morrison
Accepting Mr. Ernest Morrison’s wonder-
ful account of his exploratory exploits in
New Guinea, and even digesting the singular
endurance of himself and a brave companion
(who were entirely without food for eight
and nine days respectively, and still managed
to travel—the one severely wounded, and the
other encumbered with the wounded man),
tbe story is still fraught with the most serious
monitions. Mr. Morrison, according to his
own showing, maintained, long after his
personal safety might have prompted him
to display the deadly efficacy of his weapons,
a strictly pacific and patient attitude. And,
despite of this, he escaped with his life only
by a miracle, ihis is one way of looking at
the matter. That is to say, these are reflec-
tions based upon the narrative of one party
to a dispute. Mr. Morrison was the embodi-
ment of forbearance and long-suffering.
Daily and nightly he was in alarm for his
life, and by night and day he was compelled
to keep on watch to guard against thefts of
his property. At length, when his patience
seemed to be doing him more harm than
good by encouraging the natives to be-
lieve that his weapons were mere noise-
producing machines, he fired at a thief in
the very act of absconding with valuable
property. Even then he restrained himself,
and allowed the offender to put such distance
between himself and the gun that no fatal
result was likely to supervene. And the
return for all his self-restraint and con-
sideration was that a deliberate attempt
was made to murder him. This is a touch-
ing tale; and the moral, so far, should un-
doubtedly be that the New Guinea natives
are thievish, ungrateful, and murderous,
and should be punished for their outrage
upon so harmless a visitor as Mr. Morrison.
A British army was dispatched to the heart
of Abyssinia on a less provocation, and killed
the King and quite a multitude of the
warriors of that country.
• •
Mr. Morrison’s narrative is not only
romantic, but candid. From it, we are
enabled to get a glimpse of the case as it
may present itself to the natives. Thus re-
garded, it must appear that if Mr. Morrison
was forbearing and patient, so were they.
They discovered, pushing his way among
them, a mysterious stranger, of alien race
and suspicious motives. He came unin-
vited uml uudesired. These savages showed
wonderful —we may say unheard of—for-
bearance. The numerous population of
each district resorted to every means
short of actual violence to induce the in-
truder to turn back. We scarcely see what
the most civilised society could have done
that would have been more decent and
praiseworthy, there were thieves among
the inhabitants, and awkward consequences
might be apprehended should the stranger
£ud his valuables disappear. Were a Chi-
nese explorer to make his appearance in
New South Wales, and carry about ob-
jects of enormous value only guarded by
Iris own party s personal watchfulness, we
>hould conceive no more reasonable or proper
course than to warn and implore that in-
truder to turn back, and not excite by his
presence and arrangements, racial antipa-
thies, the prejudices of the common people,
and the cupidity of the unprincipled.
Crowds of armed men barred Mr. Morri-
son's path, and motioned him to go back,
with gestures which fairly warned him wuat
might be the consequences should he persist
in disregarding the objection to his presence.
They made pretence of spear-throwing, but
threw no spear. One man laid a shield on
the ground at the intruder’s feet, and signed
so intelligibly as to be clearly understood
that it would be to their advantage to go
back. The incident was heroic—for the
native thus risked his life in the interests of
peace. No wonder, when his appeal had
failed, his nerves gave out and he finished
by running away. There was no possibility
of misapprehending the desire of the popu-
lation. Progress was only possible bv the
historic practice of corrupting the leaders
of the people to betray their trust—bribing
the chiefs to permit that to be done which
the seuse of the people had recognised as
likely to h ive disastrous consequences. The
invaders had to diddle a remonstrant crowd
at every change of camp. The further they
penetrated, vthe denser the population was
found to be, and thieves were as numerous
as if New Guinea had been a civilised
country.
• • ♦
Mr. Morrison’s experience has established
one important fact. The interior of the
country he found to be densely populated.
New Guinea, therefore, is not a desert is-
land—or no-man’s land—inviting occupation
by the first comer. The Bower which an-
nexes New Guinea will have to recognise
that it does not merely seize upon one of
the earth’s waste places, but usurps control
of a people. A primitive people, no doubt,
governed only by the light bonds of tribal
custom ; but still a people occupying the
territory, deriving their sustenance from it,
and jealous ol foreign intrusion. Their
customs seem to comprise no provision for
dealing with intruders from a world outside
their island, a world of whose existence they
are probably in almost entire ignorance.
Among the aborigines a modus Vivendi has
necessarily been established, and a recogni-
tion of personal property must exist. But
with regard to white strangers, all is chaos.
Tlure is no authority which undertakes
either to exclude or to protect them or their
chattels. The instincts of the simple popu-
lace supply the place of laws or treaties in
regard 10 contingencies so entirely unfor-
seen. Any explorer who goes amidst them,
carries, as Mr. Morrison did, his life and his
goods equally in his hand. This is a serious
responsibility, and involves, in practice, the
necessity for each explorer creating a code
of laws for his own behoof and protection.
Mr. Morrison sought to ensure his personal
safety by debauching chiefs with gifts—a
transaction of the most questionable mo-
rality. When aggravated by thefts, the
same young Draco opened his code with
head-punching as penalty for petty larceny,
but soon found it requisite to pass a sentence
of increased stringency, and execute judg-
ment by shooting an offender in the back,
with risk of killing him outright.
• • •
The natives appear not to have relished
the introduction of this Draconian code, and
to have decided when the last extremity of
its operation was displayed, that the public
good would be better served by making
death the penalty of an unwarrantable in-
trusion upon their community, than that it
should be convulsed by the uninvited pre-
sence of strangers, who carried extraordin-
arily tempting treasures in the form of steel
axes and curiously woven blankets—of ines-
timable value —without appropriate and ap-
parent provision for preventing the ob-
viously weak and careless custody of these
inviting attempts to seize them. The cir-
cumstances were such as, in the language of
diplomacy, offered inducements to inter-
national complications. It was not until Mr.
Morrison had instituted shooting as the pen -
alty for theft, that the natives of New Guinea
went beyond instituting the deprivation of
property as the penalty for trespassing after
repeated warning and prohibitions. When
Mr. Morrison introduced capital punish-
ment, so did the savages, and not before.
Thus Mr. Morrison was the first savage in
the affair. The cool tone of conviction, and
almost regret, in which he records that
“everyone” pronounced it a mistake
on his part not to have shot the
thief, or perchance bailiff with an
aboriginal substitute for a warrant to levy,
dead on the spot, is remarkable. We pre-
sume “everyone ” does not include the poor
native’s wife and children. Mr. Morrison
terms his shot at the native a necessity (we
will consider that presently), and charac-
terises the natives’ shot at him as an out-
rage. We should like to know how the
natives regard it. It may be admitted that
in the fix in which he found himself, the
situation had come to a crisis. It looked as
if Mr. Morrison had just one pair of alterna-
tives. Either he must submit to be robbed
with indefinite sequences, or else he must
shoot somebody. As the world wags, we
may admit that it would be nonsense to
argue that this gave practically any choice
at all. Mr. Morrison could not be expected
to expiate his mistake by laying down his
life for a lot of niggers. Although a child of
the Manse, and carrying the responsibility
of representing theS. M. Herald, the young
man was probably not sufficiently imbued
with the spirit imttatione Christi to invite a
martyrdom of that kind. But, regarded by
the light of abstract justice, it certainly
does appear hard that the unlucky native
upon whom the explorer thrust his presence
and the temptation of his poorly guarded
wealth should be doomed to die, while the
intruder, who caused all the disturbance by
his trespass, should go free.
• • •
The affair gives, on a small scale, a presage
of the conditions which must attend on a
large scale exploratory expeditions. There
seems to be no room for Europeans in New
Guinea. It is clear that, despite the yarns
of the missionaries on the east coast,
and of the Russian Baron on the south
coast, the aborigines ask nothing better
than to be left undisturbed. The im-
imaginative persons of Jingo proclivities,
who have begun to gabble about the neces-
sity of annexation, should discover in Mr.
Morrison’s narrative—notwithstanding its
MuNCHAusEN-like episodes of starvation—
sufficient reason for suspending their excited
clatter, and for endeavouring to reflect. It
becomes clear that, although the mere farce
of hoisting a flag and firing a salute will
hurt nobody and do nobody any benefit, any
steps to take active possession of New Guinea
must lead to a bitter and bloody conflict.
The natives of the interior plainly resent
ARCHIBALD ARCHER, E3Q., EX-TREASURER OF QUEENSLAND.


A Line for Newcastle and Sydney Readers.
—It s just as well to have it notified as widely as
possible that the ever popular old Joe Milthobpe
(late of the Terminus Hotel, Newcastle), is runnlnar
the famous hostelrie, York Hotel, at the corner of
King and York streets, right in the heart of Sydney.
The hotel is one of the most recently erected edi-
hces in this city, and has conseq uently all the latest
additions and conveniences which go to make a
modern first-class house. Old Joe is known to tens
of thousands of travellers ontha Hunter, for his
r^ re treat of “ Rum a id Milk” on the arrival of
the Sydney steamer at Newcastle; and change of
business finds him dispensing his hospitality now
in Sydney, ins ead of at Newcastle. And no
more convenient hostelrie could be found than
the York Hotel, at the corner of King and York
str ets. The first-class dining-rooms at the hotel
are crowded each day, proving their establish-
ment to be a much-needed public convenience:
and our mutual friend, Joe, does the superin-
tending himself, looking after the comfort and
wants of each and every one of his visitors. A
first-class private bar has been established in con-
nection with the hotel; and upstairs a similar con-
venience may be found for the theatre-goers at
the Opera House. Adjoining the hotel, for the
convenience of the travelling public, is a branch
office of the Newcastle Steamship Company, where
Passengers may be booked without trouble or
elay for any boat on the line, for any night.
Altogether, the house is proving itself in the
right place.*
“THE BULLETIN”
CHRISTMAS NUMBER.
The Special Christmas Number
of The Bulletin will be issued on
Thursday, 20th December.
Guaranteed Circulation- - 40,000.
Agents are requested to send
in their extra orders at once, as
they will be filled in the order
of priority. The Christmas
Number will be a Splend d Pro-
duction, replete with unprece-
dented attractions. Advertise-
ments must be sent in at once,
as the sheets have to go to press
early. Appearing several days
before the holidays, the Christ-
mas Number of The Bulletin
affor*' s a ? pecial opportunity for
advertising Christmas Goods.
RATES — ONE-HALF ADDITIONAL TO
ORDINARY SCALE.
Magnificent Coloured Supp!ement f
BY L. HOPKINS.
Coughs and Colds.
THE Beat Cure lor the above Is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
ey PURE RUM,
Extra Strong, ,
8s. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
G. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Department,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET,
where you can obtain for
©cl.
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OH BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot he surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
la now open In
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold In this department.
Tub most Wholesome or all Beverage*.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
is. 8d. per bottle.
CLYNELI8H WHISKY.
6s. per bottle.
V E-R D B I L H O,
Lovely White Wine, la. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE
la. 8d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEB PORT,
its. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
8s. 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street, Sydney•
The Kates of Subsorijptxcen u> Tub Bulletin
are—For one year, 24a.: half-year, 13s. 6d.;
quarter, 6a. 6d.—In advance.
The Advertising Rates are 5s. per inch;
special positions in the paper 7b. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10b. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions,
16 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 35 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under JB1, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent,, if more convenient.
intrusion even on a small scale, and will dis-
pute possesion of their country with all
comers, all the more fiercely in proportion
to the comprehension they may gain of
the real character and scope of the irrup-
tion into their country. They may he de-
luded and cheated into temporary docility
aud complaisance, but, if the white man
enters, their doom will be sealed, as has been
the case in every similar instance of contact
between the races. The choice of annexors
will lie between immediate bloodshed, aud a
system of deceit and chicanery which may
defer actual conflict, but cauuot postpone
the commencement of destruction. This is
a prospect which we especially commend to
the Premier of Victoria, Mr. James Service,
and his prompters iu the Presbyterian
Mission and Churches.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Minister for Education has certainly justified
the choice which conferred upon him the portfolio
he holds. His administration of his department
has been eminently practical, and the arrange-
ments of which he is the author have been marked
by a steady exercise of plain common sense. Mr.
Reid is working at both ends of the educational
scale. The High Schools will provide for those
pupils whose abilities carry them beyond the
range of teaching which can conveniently be
Imparted to the ordinary run of pupils, and will
place advanced culture within the reach of
young persons gifted with talent or endowed
with perseverance. The conception of im-
parting a knowledge of cookery to girls
attending the Public Schools is not a now
one. It has been advocated over and over again.
But the official mind has never heretofore grasped
the idea that education may comprise other teach,
ings than literary instruction. Mr. Reid has re-
cognised that the object of all education should
be to train the young to useful citizenship; and
that while instruction in the arts of reading,
writing, and ciphering opens the portals of all
Information to such as are willing to pursue those
arts and those wjhich naturally grow out of them,
technical training is the most valuable secondary
teaching which can be provided for ninety-nine
out of every hundred pupils who attend the
Public Schools. Ih the case of male pupils, there
are serious difficulties in the way of supple-
menting rudimentary literary education with
practical technical training. The pursuits open
to young men, and customary ( for them, are infin-
itely various. But, in the case of girls, there is not
so extended, and consequently bewildexing, a
choice. The day has not yet arrived, though we
trust it will not be long defei'red, when women
can enter upon any pursuit for which they have
natural fitness, and are not physically disqualified.
Custom is a very arbitrary ruler, and it will only
be by degrees that girls will break in upon the
present male monopoly of commercial clerks,
telegraph operators, stenographex-s, engravers,
musicians, lawyers, physicians, and other employ-
ments appropriate to their sex and gifts. At
present women are still pretty closely restricted
to the “ profession of maiTlage,” and the lot of the
great majority in the average social condition will
be to “suckle fools and chronicle small beer,” and
to keep house. No more useful technical training
can at present bo imparted than to keep household
accounts and cook decent meals. We observe that
the Evening News volunteers the comforting
assurance that “a woman is not a whit the less a
lady because she knous how her kitchen should
be managed.” This Is injurious bosh, and sheer
pandering to the most senseless and squaw-like and
vulgar of all ambitions.
Plucking Pigeons.
Lay members of the Legislative Assembly are
not, perhaps, aware of the extent to which they
sacrilico the rights and interests of the public
when they leave to the Judges of the Supreme
Court the right of fixing rules and regulations in
respect to proceedings under an Act of Parlia-
ment. The rules and regulations in connection
with the Matrimonial Causes Act have just been
presented to Parliament, and the scale of tees is a
study worthy of the close attention of the repre-
sentatives of the people. This scale reminds us
strongly of a plumber’s bill or a physician’s pre-
scription, inasmuch as to an unprofessional
person the greater portion is totally unintel-
ligible. The suitor is placed totally at the
mercy of his solicitor, subject only to the
limits imposed by the Judges. It would bo
In vain for any untrained person to endeavour,
by a study of the scale of fees promulgated by
the Judges, to ascertain what expenses he would
incur by taking proceedings. He could learn, in-
deed, that his solicitor could charge him no more
than 7s. 6d. for a ” citation,” including prctcipc,
and for a subpoena duces tecum of five folios or
under, with prceclpe, the same sum, with Is. each
for additional folios. And so on through a page
and a half of octavo print. What it all meant
he could not hope to learn, unless he employed
another lawyer to teach him. Hut what the spirit
of the Judges has been in drawing up the
scale, and whether the interests of lawyers
or suitors have been mainly considered, may be
arrived at by deduction from one intelligible set
®f items. Their Honors sanctify “ tip.” The
spring of their generosity—thinly disguised under
the aspect of protection to suitors against exor-
bitant charges—wells over the strict limits of the
recognized members of the profession, and over-
flows on to counsels’ clerks. A suitor employs
the mighty Jokes, Q.C., or Robinson, the rising
barrister. Jones is willing to be engaged for a
hundred guineas ; Robinson Is content to accept
five guineas. But Jones’s clerk has to bo salved
also. And so with Robinson's. The suitor has
nothing to do with Jonas’s clerk, or Robinson’s
ollice-boy. He doesn’t want to hire them. He
presumes that if Jones needs a clerk ho will pay
one, and so with Robinson. But their Honors
decide otherwise. Tip is an ancient institution,
and no doubt honourable to all concerned. Afore-
time it was abused. Who tipped highest, first
got flio ear of the great Jones, who had more
briefs offered than he could even glance at. This
became an iniquity, and their Honors the Judges,
in days gone by, determined to put a stop to it.
Our own Judges have admirable precedents in the
matter, and gravely agree that since once on a
time some clerks of a few great pleaders levied
blackmail, therefore blackmail shall be abolished ?
—Not at all, it shall be averaged and legalized.
The clerk of Mr. Jones, Q.C., is authorised to de-
mand from his master’s customers five per cent,
on the amount of the fee tendered. And Mr.
Robinson’s office-boy likewise is empowered by
their Honors to stick-up his master's clients for
’arf-a-crown whenever that promising young
barrister is approached with a guinea I Poor
public! Poor Judges I
The Moore Mystery.
Mb. Abigail’s motion, condemnatory of the
Pi’emior’s action in officially reversing the
judgment of a stipendiary magistrate in the case
in which Mr. Moore, of the Botanical Gardens,
was lined for insulting behaviour to members of
the public, is set down for the 4th of December.
It is to be hoped that hon. members will set aside
party feelings, and vote on the principle involved
in this matter. The papers relating to the case
have been published, and furnish nothing which
in any way justifies Mr. Stuart’s action, or
throws an altered light on his interference.
The fact remains that, at the solicitation
of the defendant, Mr. Stuart chose to
refer the decision of the magistrate to the
counsel who had appeared for the defendant!
Almost as a matter of course, Mr. Edmunds re •
pox-ted that his client had been unjustly dealt with,
alleging just the same arguments as he had vainly
employed when pleading before Mr. Marsh—ar-
guments which that magistrate did not regard as
satisfactory, and which no impartial person who
peruses them can regard otherwise than as
special and rather strained pleading. Mr. Stuart
and Mr. Moore are old friends, and have been
church-wardens together; but, if every man who
is lucky enough to be a Civil servant and a friend
of a Minister for the time being, is to be invested
with the special privilege of having any judicial
decision which may go against him referred to his
own hired counsel for review, and condemned on
the strengta of an exparte report by his own
lawyer, the simple way would be at once to pass
an enactment to that effect, so that the unofficial
public might know that any discredit which they
may by process of law, after a fair hearing before
an impartial authority, bring upon a member of
the privileged class, will be thrown back upon
themselves by a report drawn up by their oppo-
nent's lawyer and endorsed by his friend in high
office. And magistrates would be aware that to
give a decision agab.st an official who has a
Colonial Secretary or other Minister for a friend,
is to court an insulting censure. The only fresh
light which the public papers cast upon the
business is an indication or hint that the
barrister who defended Mr. Moore was paid, not
by Mr. Mooxxe, but by the country. It would be
Interesting to learn what was the amount of his
fee for repeating in writing, for Mr. Stuart’s in-
formation and his cliexxt’s no lace, the arguments
he vainly employed before the magistrate who
heard both sides. And It would also be interesting
to know whether Mr. Moore paid the fine in-
flicted, or whether that too was paid lor him out
of the public funds, or remitted. Mr. Abigail
should extend his inquiries. There is a big prin-
ciple involved.
Mr. Service Proposes to Annex Tasmania
to Victoria.
Theke was once an immense country, and at its
south-eastern corner, a pleasant, fruitful, little
island. The country, big as it was, could not do
as it liked, as it was but a province of a couple of
small islands, far away on the other side of the
world. It was divided into five farms of unequal
size, and the south-eastern one—opposite the
pleasant little island—although the smallest of the
lot, supported more people, and was better kept
than any of the others. The people on it often
complained that they wore cramped for room, and
did not got their fair share of land when the
country was first cut up. But their neighbours
on the north and west told them they should be
content, and not covet what was not theirs. Then
the head-gardener, a fair-spoken, plausible man,
who saw visions and dreamed dreams of terri-
torial grandeur, made crafty proposals to the
people of the pleasant little island. He told them
that, if they joined the two farms both could be
supervised from his head station, and would thrive
exceedingly. 8o they agreed, and chose eleven of
their best-known agriculturists to join the
eighty-six who regulated theii neighbours’ hold-
ing. They became junior partners in the firm.
But they soon found out that the senior partner
wanted it all his own way, and when they said
that each farm should be cultivated so as to pro-
duce the things for which Nature adapted it, he
bullied them; said that such notions were not
abreast of the times —were the mere tags of ex-
ploded economical sophisms;—that what was good
enough for the big farm was good enough for
them also; that they were "obstructives,” and
should be brought to reason. Sometimes the
whole 11 would vote for a system they thought
the best for their island, but what were 11 out of
97 ? They were always outvoted, and, in despair,
threatened to leave the firm. But the senior
partner, who had ships of war and armed men,
said this meant rebellion, and threatened to make
them alter their views by means of conical shell.
So the 11—alternately bullied and coaxed by their
powerful neighbour—said in their grief: “AlasI
we had a prosperous present and a promising
future, but we bartered this real substance for an
alluring shadow, and have lost both.”
France and Malthus.
The Increase in the population of France is miser-
ably small, compared with that of other coun-
tries. Whether this fact is to be deplored or not
is quite another question. The vast majority of
I reach parents are averse to bringing: into the
world more mouths than they can reasonably hope
to fill. On the face of it, it seems more philoso-
phical more consonant with reason and humanity
—to restrict the population of a country within
limits which allow a career of usefulness to
every inhabitant, than to overrun the land with
millions condemned to pauperism. So well is this
understood and acted upon in France, that few
families in easy circumstances consist of more
than three children. When larger, the parents are
looked upon as being “culpably and indecently
improvident.” But in view of the rapid growth
of neighbouring countries, and the consequent
relative decadence of France as a military Power,
some statesmen in that nation are agitating for a
premium on babies. They propose that every
man owning more than four children shall have
his annual taxation reduced 15 per cent., and 5 per
cent, additional for every child in excess of five.
Should his annual assessment not exceed 100 francs
a year, he is entitled to 300 francs for his fifth child,
300 for his sixth, and so on—increasing by 100
francs as each little stranger makes its debut.
This, however, opens up an extended question.
If additional population cannot be maintained in
comfort by productive industry, what are those
extra babies required for? Obviously those who
advocate that they should be produced, do not
mean that they should be brought into the world
merely to compete with a sufficient population
and so to create misery and want. There’s no
mistake that the surplus babies advocated are
meant to provide a margin for the shambles—to
be expended in battle, in fact. This is a pretty
complication—that a nation’s strength and conse-
quent security against extinction is proportionate
to the redundancy of its population, and conse-
quent social misery. Of course there is a flaw
either in the premises, the argument, or the con-
clusion, We leave its discovery to our readers as
a pleasant philosophic exercise, for the present.
——♦
Mr. Thomas Bolam is at last shelved. He is ap-
pointed Inspector of Government Stores, at £550
per annum. When he left the Divorce Court, ex-
ternally spotted with the mud that Purves threw
at him, Mr. Service, who is head of the Victorian
Education department, admitted that it was neees"
sary to remove him from the position he then held.
In giving practical effect to this purpose, he pro-
mised to look out for some position for Mr. Bolam,
where “ a model character was not required.” It
was with interest people watched to see in what
department of the public service in Victoria a man
without a model character would be accommo-
dated, and at what price his services would be
retained. Both these points are now settled. We
had been thinking that in the House of Assembly,
as confidential adviser to a coalition Ministry, he
would be fittingly disposed of. But it’s settled
otherwise. We have no desire to throw cold water
on a drowned rat, and are not sorry that Mr.
Bolam has been saved from utter ruin; but we
cannot help thinking that if Fuzelim, head teacher
of the Turn Turn State school, and in the service
since he was a boy, had been removed from his
head-teachership as Mr. Bolam was removed from
his Inspector-Generalship, the coalition Ministry
would not have distressed themselves to create an
office for him. And we cannot help saying that
Mr. Thomas Bolam gains more by living in a
democratic community than poor old Fuzelim.
King Alfonso is the only practical Christian
among crowned heads. After the Parisian mob
had insulted him, he sent 10,000 francs to be distri-
buted among the poor of that city. This shows,
amongst other things, how superior Alfonso is to
his own wife. The Parisians smote him on the I
right cheek, and he turned the left; whereas,
when he slapped his wife’s face, she didn’t turn
the unslapped cheek at all, but got spiteful and
made a public scandal by demanding to go home
to her mother. By the way, we wonder where
Alfonso got the money to send to the Parisian
poor ? Earned it, we suppose, by the sweat of his
brow, and had to go without diamonds in his
fourth-best sword-hilt, in order to relieve the dis-
tress in Paris. We are, as all our readers know,
horridly heterodox in our notions, and regard the
mere bestowal of unearned money by a fellow
who never misses the amount, or deprives himself
of a single indulgence, as a base and bitter impos-
ture, when given in the sacred name of Charity.
It is about two years since the London World
wrote the sentences which we proceed to reprint.
The truth of the generalisation based upon ob-
servations of Judicial fallibleness in England, is
neatly endorsed by the perfect manner in which it
fits in Australia. “ A certain class of distinguished
lawyers, and the race of judges generally, are
also persons who shrink from the imputation of
being newspaper reade. s. They regard the com-
ments of Journalism as encroachments on the
sacred province of legal specialists. Every news-
paper writer is to them, constructively or poten-
tially, guilty of contempt of court. Probably, as
a matter of fact, there are no men in the world
who are such omnivorous devourers of news-
papers or so keenly sensitive to criticism of every
kind. In reality all this is a tribute to the in-
fluence of the Fuurth Estate. Hitherto much of the
knowledge and more of the information on special
events, which is purchasable for a penny, has
been the exclusive possession of a special guild or
caste of men. The survivors of these orders
resent the process of wholesale promulgation
much as Roman Catholic priests do the free dis-
tribution of the Scriptures, or as the Egyptian
hierarchy the profanation of the mysteries of
Isis. In a few years, when these venerable relics
of antiquity have disappeared, the jealousy will
pass away; but till the transitional period has
elapsed, it will continue. The position which the
newspaper press occupies in England is still ano-
malous and undefined; nor could there be any
more crucial proof that it is so than the existence of
a class of persons who, while they ‘ never read the
newspapers,’ secretly never allow a line of any
Importance in them to go unread.”


FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
His cattle were bogged for days on his
neighbour’s run. All efforts failed to extricate
them; but, hoping against hope, he still tried on.
Tip to his middle in slush, with the rain pouring in
water-spouts, he heard above the elemental strife
the cracked falsetto voice of his neighbour: “I
say, B , you're not going to use my run all the
wet season?”....History is to be taught in the
N.S.W. public schools (Nelson’s “History of Eng-
land” and Sutherland’s “History of Australia”);
and plain cooking is also to form one of the com-
pulsory subjects, because, as Trickett puts it,
whether we be rich or poor, we never know what
we may have to do. Quite so: when we are down
on our luck to the extent of not having a copper
to purchase a penn’o th of tripe, it will be so satis-
factory to know how to cook it, plain “Old
Jack,” only “old Jack,” no other name known,
was working away Tuesday week at the back of
Cribbe’s merry-go-round at Wagga, when suddenly
h e turned faint, and, before anything could be
done for him, died right away. Disease of
the heart. The only observable mark on the
body was at attoo on left forearm, representing
a dressed woman standing on a pedestal
Kockhampton, the city of "sin, sweat, a..d sor-
f 0w »” now has public baths ...It was long after
ours when a Queen-street chemist pulled on his
things to answer the bell. Sp. vini yallici, 4 ounces
toiua sodw </. s. was the prescription .Queensland
Papers crying out about assisted immigrants cross-
ug the border into N. S. Wales, or leaving by boat
for other colonies. It is a “misdemeanour,” but
he law is a dead letter “Can you drive bul-
locks ? ’ asked Mr. District Court Judge Docker of
* w hness t'other day up at Bourke. “ My colonial 1
yer Honour,” was the reply. “ Well, speak to the
Jury as you would to your team!” Luckily the
fitness was shy, cowed by Colonna-Close’s and his
onor’s wigs, else had he spoke on that wise, the
oorke Watchman wouldn’t have had enough
8m 68 re P resen l' the terms of endearment.. The
•Hkraed referring to Spaight’s appointment
0 the chairmanship of the new Victorian Railway
t y minissic)n . says:—“Mr. Spaight will have some
fin? 88 tu unlearn ; hut men of a high order do not
much difficulty in adapting themselves to
arTi c * rcum8tances * It is time that someone of
th' I? M Wel1 a8 of autb orlty should be put at
wh if 81 * t^le railways. Local men,
o have grown with the growth of small things,
who do not .forecast what colonial railways
are to become, constantly blunder. Systems grow
faster than men; and to overtake the position it
is imperative to bring in men who have gained
experience under great systems.” This would ap-
pear to be indirectly a nasty dig at Goodchap....
Presbyter Macready’s lecture on the “Siege of
Derry” was reported in extemo in a supplement
of the Nepean Times, with the footnote, “Rough
on corns.” Shouldn’t it have been “ Rough on
Cornstalks ?”.... The genial novelist who writes the
London Town Talk for the Melbourne Anaus,
and who occasionally points laughingly with his
pen at the failings of his brethren, is not himself
infallible. A few weeks ago, talking of imaginary
maladies, he gave an instance of a child who was
afflicted with a kind of “ hydrophobia ” from a
kitten-scratch, the only difference between it and
the genuine article being that the child manifested
no “ horror of water." Spirit of Sir Boyle, Roche
pray for us! Hydrophobia without fear of water I
It is paynful to think of it In proportion to
total population, Victoria has more people at the
middle period of life, and fewer of the young and
very old, than any other Australasian colony ex-
cept Queensland.... Andrew M'Cutcheon, landlord
of the Star Hotel, Albury, dropped down dead in
a fit on Friday last—result of heavy drinking
Ono of the choruses of th e Newcastle “ Skeleton
Army ” is:
“Hallelujah, hy and bye,
We will drink when we are dry.”
This sentiment is very popular with the local
publicans...The Oura mall-bag' was stolen last
week. It was usually placed for safety in the
centre of a paddock occupied by bullocks. It is
supposed the latter know more about it than they
care to tell. The Riverine Evening Star says :
“ From their sex it is hardly to be supposed that
love letters were expected.”....The Forbes and
Parkes Gazette says that prior to the departure
of Mr. Edvard James for Cobar, the Western
Sentinel Lodge —of which he was W.M. —hastily
“impoverished ” a banquet to him.
• • •
A statistical comparison, showing the rela-
tive extent to which various nations are addicted
to the use of tobacco, gives proportions as fol-
lows:—For England, Prance, and Russia, 5; lor
Italy, 7; for Cuba, 11; for Austria, 14; for Germany
and North America, 15; for Belgium, 34; and for
Holland, 38. Mexico, however, surpasses even
Holland; for there every one is a smoker Gui-
teau’s skeleton is in the office ef the Surgeon-
General at Washington While on his rounds
the other day, a Cheshire gamekeeper tumbled
over a poor cripple, who was cutting ferns on the
mar gin of a cover. The keeper assaulted the
helpless wretch savagely, breaking two of his ribs.
The bench (landlords to a man) dismissed the
case, as the defendant’s attorney urged that, the
cripple being a trespasser, the whole question was
one of property right, and beyond the magis-
trates' jurisdiction. It is not in Ireland alone
that the agrarian laws require up-ending
Last summer the small-pox broke out in the
family of a leading English anti-vaccine agitator,
and carried off his wife and three children. The
loss preyed upon his mind, and he completed the
extinction of his family by self-destruction It
is by no means unlikely that the result of the
French Admiral’s grand attack on Bacninh will be
his taking a Back seat The case of Conway
Gordon, lieutenant R.M.A., is probably the prece-
dent followed by the New South Wales Secretary
at War, re the recent promotion of certain offl-ers
J n the Permanent Force. Gordon was rewarded
for passing his examination by having two fellows
who had failed to pass theirs promoted over his
At Clapham Junction, where the great
railroad systems of London connect, the rails lie
together like wires of a piano. Sixteen hundred
trains a day run over them. There is no shrieking I
of whistles or clanging’ of bells. They keep their
signals for their officials, and outsiders must ex-
pose themselves at their own risks.... It was a gen-
tleman named Delaunay who predicted, two years
ago, the late frightful catastrophe in Java. He is,
probably, as proud at the fulfilment of his pro-
phecy, as he would have been disappointed at its
non-fulfilment. And let us say, when on the sub-
ject, that the same cheerful seer has prophesied a
still more terrible cataclysm in 1886.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“ J.J.W.” : Every wrong has its compen-
sations. We forget who said that t .e constant
assassination of sheep by humans was amply
avenged in the fact that military drums and
lawyer’s parchment were made of sheepskin
“E.P.”: Excellent, but must hold over “Cam-
po”: Will consider. ...“Dick Deadeye”: To hand
late—“W.O.H.”; Thanks. Will avail ourselves
of the Information “ J.P.” (Melb.) : Much
obliged.... “J.B.P.”: Too solemn....“ Arcanum
Write a neat par., and It’ll go In “ W.S.C.”: We
never publish anything of the sort... “Cabul’’:
' /l h “?o, ref ? remce to the Indian massacre. (2
in tbe 1841 disaster, consequent upon the M'Nagh-
ten massacre, out of 3849 soldiers and 12,000 camp
followers, only one European (Dr. Brydone) and
MT Ur * < »?i T esjaped death or captivity....
L.A.B. : We hope to deal with the matter next
£5®“' Next issue.... “Joachim”: Good
verse. Wdl duly appear...., “J. e. Morris”: (1)
There is no Lang ton now in the Victorian Assem-
bly) hut Tom Langdon represents the Avoca. (3)
We don t know who Coifee-Coote is. Ask Plum-
mer. .. O. : Cum gram (de) Sails.. “Petersham”:
You are Quite right. There can be no check when
railway Passengers by scores are never asked for
tickets.... M.J.W. : We don’t know whether
there are any boss-cockies in Government-house
ys n d i‘ Vu No; lawyers don’t keep
shops. But their business is to seal, all the same.
£ broken’ Householder”: Yes; it would be
a good thing were the Australian Gas Co.’s inspec-
tors made to undergo a stiff examination in
meterology prior to appointment....”A 1’aban-
don : “Pome Boohoo’ f won’t do.. “X.Y.”: (1)
The words are not either English, French, Latin, or
Greek; give the full sentences in which thev
?°Vt (3) x No “ J.P.”: Thanks
Hicks, jun. : No; the Knight of Falconbridge Is
not lineally descended from the Luther Saint
Enery G.C.”:Much obliged for the noble
newspaper ‘‘Sec. Orange J.C.”: The mistake
W uf u Urs “Maud”; We want an address to
which we can send you a slight recognition
Arthur Abre” (Brisbane): We have answered the
question on several occasions, “Brothers and
sisters I have none; but that man’s father is mv
father s son.” The speaker is his father’s only
80 °: The speaker Is “ that man’s father.” The
R ( Fwiiw' r . ef TO- re re Presents the speaker’s son....
Franjaise . We don t remember your name anti
of A* r 8ketch d
..TW»' V Exc ®y ent ---“W.W.P. 1 Received....
J.w. . Yes, If you bathe in the Fairy Bower
w r ? er yo J 1 8tand a Food show of being: taken away
by an under-current. Delightful place, Manly. Y
s^ y hf ney S ’ .(Melbourne): As the matter was no
doubt reported In the newspapers, you should
send us clippings to enable us to verify your
wrnfod t f*K • i Mi : Y f s ’ he ’ 8 the man who once
wrote six libels In three lines, and boasts of having
sent a telegraphic account of one of the principal
battles In the American war on paper collars taken
f™ m the bodies of Federal officers killed in action
Excelsior (Terrara): Verses roceved. Try again’
— butnmaBondwin”: Four alleged parable Isn’t
one. The universe doesn’t feel much Interested in
Georges moustache.”....“A la bonne
Frank Gardiner, so far as we know, was not related
to any member of the Parliament which was in
existence at the time of his release; the proba-
blllty, however, Is that he was—a probability
heightened by several facts. It was the Parkea
Ministry who released him—Slrenry’s colleagues
Lloyd, Far ml 1, R. P .
Jo. Innes, George W. Allen, and Saul
fJfSPSj? CoDsidenng that Gardiner was sentenced
in 64 for thirty-two years, and was released in ’74.
you may feel quite confident that back-door work
was at the bottom of his conditional pardon.
We do not undertake to return rejected
communications. Writers should keep copies.
The Boss Cookies and the Land Bill.
The Boss Cookie Deputation (to the Land Minister) “Now you musn’t pass this Land Rill Wh„ +h a . , ...
Mr. Farneul “ Not so, we’ll save the country and ruin you.” * 00U1 itry s ruined without its pre-leases.”


Telegram to a Melbourne daily:—“Asad
aeci den t occured last evening at Panni>obamawn to
Mr. H. Pook. He left here yesterday afternoon,
and whan he got home went to help his men to
yard some horses. One of them rushed at the
fence and broke it, a part of it striking him on the
chest.” We consider It served Mr. Pook perfectly
right for being a horse and rushing at a fence. If ho
hadn’t got mixed and been one of his own horses
and tried to yard himself, this trouble would never
have happened.
Skinny Men—“Wells' Health Renewer ’* re-
stores health and vigour, cures Dyspepsia
Impotence, Debility Moses, Moss & Co* Sydney*
General Agents,
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Conway, who has been a frost, is said to
be “a deep thinker.” He may, therefore, bo
alluded to as “The Frozen Deep.”
The Rum’s Taree correspondent announces
that Bishop Pern-son and lady arrived there on
Thursday last. We presume the Bishop’s wife
countenances this sort of thing-.
Lord R. has been “surprised” at nearly
everything he has se m in this country, hut his
surprise culminated in stony astonishment when
he saw his portrait in the T. and C. Jernbl.
It is cabled that the Rev. W. Sheriff, of
N.Z., has hanged himself while temporarily insane.
The unfortunate gentleman evidently laboured
under the hallucination that he was the Sheriff’s
deputy.
Apropi0%l the theatrical query, “Who
discovered Se rry Irving?' it is worthy of note
that Charles Dickens, the novelist, while witness-
ing a performance of the “ Lancashire Lass,” many
vears ago, wfts greatly struck by Irving’s pic-
turesque style, and pointed him out to his son a« a
man with a great future before him. The Dickens
family have presented Irving with several inte-
resting souvenirs of the celebrated author.
WHY HE GOT ’EM.
His corpse lay by the roadside still.
“ ’Twas I that did the miscreant kill.
With bludgeons and with iron oars,”
A stern man said “Say why he died I”
In anguished accents, then we cried.
The stern man laughed, and then replied,
“ Ho got that gore, those wounds and scars,
Through spelling * Rosebery’ with three r’s’”
An outrage combining novelty with
fiendish atrocity was committed in Bathurst a
few days ago, and is thus referred to by that most
bucolic of papers, the Bathurst Fre-i Pr$bs: —
“ The paper that is pasted on a board for the
benefit of th»se of the public who like to read
standing was literally cut into inches—slashed
beyond recognition, and when the office was
opened all that remained oflthe erstwhile living
sheet was narrow strips of bloodless, quivering
paper. The graduating villain (he is comparatively
young in years) did not imagine that he was being
watched, and we are patiently waiting for him to
confess and atone by apologising.”
The Melbourne correspondent of the S. M.
Herald says:—“ The Hon. Francis Ormond has
muniticently offered to complete the proposed
Working Men’s College at his own expense. This
will cost him a good many thousand pounds, and
surely a man who spends his money upon what
appears to be philanthropic objects, which cannot
directly yield him any advantage, earns the right
to be regarded as an unselfish man.” We don’t,
see it. Ormond may want a Baronetcy, and, like
Clarke, may be prepared to pay for it. It's not fair to
lookagift horse in theraouth, but if Francis would
only covenant (under bond, with sureties) that he
wouldn’t under any circumstances accept any
sort of title, from a C.M.G.-ship upwards, we’d be
more disposed to believe in his unselfish philan-
thropy.
A politico-social secret that “ must not go
farther than this table.” It has Just leaked out
that “Mr. Gladstone varies his feats with the
hatchet by occasional rambles in the leafy soli-
tudes round Hawarden with an accorcleon." Yes;
but what has not leaked out is this. A short while
since, Mr. Gladstone was so ill that it was neces-
sary for him to go on a prolonged yachting excur-
sion with Sir Donald Currie. It happened in this
way. One day, in a fit of abstraction, the Premier
wandered, playing the while on his instrument,
away from his own demesne of Hawarden to
where some men were building a house. The
toilers from aloft remonstrated with Mr. G., hut
he, all unconscious, strolled along, still emitting
music from his accordeon. It was then that the
Right Hon. gentleman fell against a brick, while a
scaffold-polo silenced the instrument for ever.
The Premier is “ better now,” but he has lost nis
taste for music. Silent are the Hawarden woods
accordeonly. .
IMMORTAL.
“ Henry Johnson, aged 79, a Waterloo veteran,
lean inmate of the Bourke Hospital.”
Brought low, at last, brave veteran
Who’s borne the brunt of war’s dread capers;
This comes, alas, thou poor old man,
Of spelling o’er the local papers !
Thou who smiled on the corpse-strewn plain,
Nor blenched when in the battle gory,
Art p’rhaps by some small leade>- slain—
perchance killed by a 4 iec > I story.”
Nol sunshine’s yet for thee, old boy;
Keep up thy pecker, cease to sigh;
For learn to thy eternal joy,
A Wat'lno Veteran cannot die!
An American in England pertinently says
that the Cbambei lalne family father, mother,
and daughter- have now been '‘shadowing ” the
Prince of Wales for over two years, and are begin-
ning to bo talked about in language that is hot
complimentary. What they expect to gain by
persistently following His Royal Highness from
place to place, people are at a loss to imagine.
They seem to forget that the Prince is a married
man, and not likely, at present, to divorce the
Princess, however much he may have imitated
his ancestor, Bluff King Hal, in other ways. Long
ago, the Princess showed what she thought of
Miss Jennie’s flirtations with her husband, and as
the pa ents are persons of wealth and position in
their own country, they are sharply criticised for
their had form in leading, for so long, a life which
seems to have no other object than allowing their
daughter to keep as near as possible to England’s
future king.
Not many moons ago, in N.S.W., a party
by the name of Brownjones— Brownjones is a safe
name—called upon Widow Brownjones, relict of
John Thomas Brownjones, M.D., a good old fellow,
who, acting und- rdue warrant from Edinburgh
University, in his day and generation had done
good service as a general medical practitioner.
Widow Brownjpnes s visitor stated that he, too,
was a medical man, duly licensed by Edinburgh
University ; that in shipwreck off the coast of
Patagonia he had lost his certificates; tnat ho was
prepared to ante up £25 for the certificates of his
deceased namesake—documents he was confident
the respectable widow Brownjones had in safe
keeping; that—and so on. Widow Brownjones—
who, tVoug’ poor, is passably honest—had the
presenc of mind t > say she would refer the matter
to her so. .n-law, the local P.M., whereupon the
man who had escaped shipwreck in Patagonia
escaped ditto in N.8.W. by the hastiest of depar-
tures. Apropos, we know a f How in Sydney who
Is practising under the diploma of a dead man—a
naval surgeon.
The new Arthur Orton (who has kindly
come forward to enliven the “dull ” season) is an
out-and outer in every respect. He promises
that, if sufficiently rewarded before leaving the
colony, he is (ire pared to go to England and prove
that the Claimant is not only not Arthur Orton,
but also that he is really Roger Tichborne. On
this latter point, the now A.O.’s testimony is con-
clusive, foi he states that, as a lad of sixteen, he
used to take round meat to the barracks where
Roger’s regiment was quartered, and Roger, of
course, as an officer and heir to a baronetcy, would
be the very one appointed to take in the chops and
steaks f romtfhe butcher’s boy: hence the Intimacy
between them, which ripened to friendship when
they met beneath the Australian sun. Our own
private opinion is that the new A.O. is a man of
the requisite genius to j r >ve almost anything, and
wo should truly grievi if tie were to be “suffi-
ciently rewarded,” because then he would leave
the colonies, and the colonies can ill afford to part
with the new A.O. Such people are the bulwarks
of our greatness.
A cablegram announces the death in Paris
of Count Frederic de Lagrange, whose name will
ever live in the sporting world as the owner of the
renowned Gladiateur, the only animal of purely
French breed that has succeeded in carrying off
the English Derby. Under the excitement of that
victory, many enthusiastic “ mossoos ” declared
that Waterloo was avenged, and the late Emperor
Napoleon III. (who was always credited with
having a pecuniary interest in Count Lagrange’s
stud) was most inordinately delighted over Gla-
diateur’s success. Lagrange, however, was never
a popular owner in England, and the in-and-out
running of some of his horses was the occasion of
many hostile demonstrations against his jockey
and even against his noble self; in fact, the police
had great difficulty in preventing a riot after one
of the Count’s “ daylight robberies," as they were
called.
David Crichton, agricultural editor of the
Federal Australian, had expected £7009 as a
solatium for the reputation which he said
had been blasted by the Age and a country
paper. We calculated some weens ago that
he stood a chance of pocketing twelve pounds
and a few shillings, as a settlement in full
from all parties. We were out We based
our calculations on the five-pound note David
Syrae had sent down. But we didn’t then
reckon on the pugnacity of M‘Lean of the Castle-
malne Leader, insteid of handing out “a con-
sideration," he stepped down to the Melbourne
Supreme Court, bringing oid Shroeder of the
Imperial Vineyard, with him, and swore like a
book that the words he printed were as true as the
first verses of Matthew’s Gospel. Old Shroeder s
memory was miraculous in its tenacity. He de-
scribed theapparition of the Phylloxera inspectors,
detailed all their little jokes when they sat astride
of barrels in his cool cellar, and swilled the sooth-
ing liquor, and swore they were capable of mistak-
ing a bull-frog for the little insect a wise Govern-
ment had commissioned them to hunt. Poor
Crichton! As the old man rattled away, making
the sore spots sorer, the agricultural editor looked
as if registering a mental oath that the next time
he is commissioned to hunt “ the demned brute,"
ho’ll do it on water. After listening t Schroeder,
the jury returned with a verdict of “nothing at
all.” So ends the second lesson.
Irving Bishop, the mind-reader, who was
so vigorously baited by L ibouchere, M.P., of
Truth, with an offer of a £1000 note provided he
gave the correct number of it while it remained
fn a sealed packet, under test conditions, gave an
exhibition of his powers at Dublin in October,
Pour times he attempted to decipher the number
of a bank note, under similir conditions, and
four times he failed. >> t the conclusion of his
fourth effort, he fainted, and has since been
dangerously ill of » ongestion of the brain. This
is a singular circumstance, and appears to indi-
cate that Irving Bishop’s “gift” is really an ab-
normal mental condition, and that it involves a
peculiar exertion of the brain, which under un-
favourable conditions amounts to straining, and
results in positive physical lesion of the brain-
matter.
“One of the most remarkable men in the
country, sir”—or at least in the colony of South
Australia—is Mr. John Howell, the Governor of
Adelaide gaol. Mr. Howell, besides teing an
excellent gaolerand a most humane man, is a poet,
You can ti ll that by a glance at him-by the fine
frenzy of his rolling eye. His caligraphy is as
beautiful as FrancHIon’s, and he copies all his
poems out on big sheets of foolscap, and reads
them to you in a deep, sonorous voice, that is
very impressive. When you meet him in King
William street, he is a walking epic He carries it
in his pockets, In his hands, and in his hat. Some-
times a slab of it gets into the papers, and then
the old man trots up to the office, buys his extra
copies, and reads his verses to the clerks from the
title to the signature. Mr. Howell was a com-
petitor for the 8.M. Herald prize poem ; but
Kendall beat him. Wo thought Kendall would beat
him as hard as we could think; but there is much
merit in Mr. H’s rhymes. He has a great many
words, and none of them are bad words; and has
a tine ear for metre. Mr. Howell has been for
many years the chosen bard of Frearson’s
Weekly, and has sung about everything in that
journal, from a shoe to a shipwreck— possibly
Inclusive. But, while Mr. Howell’s chief passion
lies in the manufacture of verse—more or less
immoital another of his hobbies is the manufac-
ture of olive-oil. Olives grow in great profusion
about Adelaide, and, assisted by the prisoners, he
makes the oil in large quantities. We have read
Mr. Howell’s poetry, and we have tasted his oil.
Our fear of rendering the old gentleman vain
alone prevents us from telling our readers which
of the two we the more admire.
That oily person, Sir George Bowen, the
new Gov ernor of Hongkong, when recently en
route to pay a visit to the Great Wall
got robbed of all his personal effects at the Nan
K ou village inn. This is no new experience of
Bowen’s. He seems, however, to have got back
safe from Nan K’ou, since we hear of him subse-
quently buttering the Chinese Viceroy, LI Hung
Chang, at a banquet which the latter gave
in his honour at Nanking. Said the Viceroy :—“ I
am (12 years old, and have no longer the same
vigour as when I put down the Taeping rebellion
with the help of my friend Gordon.” “Then,”
said Sir George, “Your Excellency was born in
the year 1821, in which the great Napoleon died.
Nature abhors a vacuum, and has evidently
created in you a new Napoleon of the East
to replace the Napoleon of the West.”
This compliment secured for Bowen the present
of a lot of savoury meats such as his soul loveth.
By the bye, apropos of Bowen and g*ourrnandise,
Garnet Walch, after describing the Mauritian
camaron, which Is a fresh-water crayfish more
delicate in flavour than a prawn, goes on to re-
mark; “Sir George Bowen was deeply enamoured
pf this delicious crustacean, and the story goes
that once upon a time, when camping out near the
banks ol a Mauritian stream for the purpose of en-
joying camar.ms at their best, he nearly fell a
victim to a surfeit of them, thus emulating the
historical example of the British monarch (was it
Henry II.?) who gave up his mind and his ghost
to lampreys.”
Moody and Sankey are to commence a
season in Lo.ndon shortly ; and it has now trans-
pired that there has arisen a coolness between
these two gentlemen on the subject of the appli-
cation of the " plunder ” derived from the sale of
the hymn-books. Sankey, it is alleged, was of the
opinion that “ halves ” would be a fair and holy
division, but Moody told Ira D. that it couldn’t be
done, and anything of that kind getting wind
would infallibly burst up the show. This made
Sankey Moody, and Moody Ira-te ; and now It is
only a question of time when there will be a
burst-up of the combination. Moody’s friends, it
seems, much to that gentleman's surprise and dis-
pleasure, have bought him a lot of land and built
a big house on it; while, so tar as we can
gather, no one has bought even a hen-farm or a
dead-house for Sankey. Of course, he scoops a
bit in from the converts who call round when
Moody is doing: a hash-havoc at a friend’s, and his
board, washing 1 , and ginger-beer are provided
by his senior. Still, he thinks the condition of
things unsatisfactory. If skull-caps, wool-slippers,
cough-mixture, and Christmas-cards represented
capital, he would be rich indeed ; but as it is, he is
suffering from such a plethora of these and other
articles that he is open to barter at any time three
pairs of bead-braces, a cap with a tassel and
a text, six bible-marks, and a pen-wiper for
either a pair of spring-sides or a circus-order. It
is asserted positively that the two evangelists sail
from England hither direct. Good again. We
have just got over Mrs. Hampson, so shall be, by
the time these gentry arrive, ready to be shown a
new road to where the halos and trumpets are.
We should like, by the way, to be present at a
meeting of Varley, Mrs. H., Moody and Sankey.
General Booth, and Dr. Somerville. We should
be certain to be saved, in that instance—that is, if
we got out alive. The manner in which we should
strike to propitiate the holy “push,” in the event
of our encountering them alt together, would
closely border on the servile.
The world is generally niggardly in bestow-
ing its praise, and is uniformly so when a man
whose name begins with Hugh comes up as the
hungry aspirant. Even Ted stands a better chance
of recognition in the temple of Fame. But when
to Hugh is added such a surname as M'Coll, the
world holds aloof and the shutters go up on the
windows of the temple, as the man so unfortu-
nately designated, creeps forward to flatten his
nose against the glass. We have just one Hugh
M'Coll in Australia, and, until that period arrives
in which the population of this Greater Britain is
to total twenty millions, we don’t want another.
He is in Victoria now. In fact, he has been there
nearly always, and seems determined to stay there
until he can sail away over the waters of the Grand
Victorian Nort '-Western “Canawl” to somewhere.
It strikes us that it would have paid Victoria to have
cut a canal for Hugh ten years ago, and let him
sail. Some evidently were of that opinion, for
£1661 5s. 6d. were put in his hat to start the thing.
Still Hugh wouldn't sail. People can’t guess how
much he wants, and he won't give the cue. Thus
George Cornwell came to the fore. Hugh is now an
old man : what hair he has is grey, and what
teeth he has are shaky. To wait for him
to die, however, required an exercise of super-
human national patience. So George Cornwell
hit him in the eyes in the Clarence Hotel in Col-
lins-street. Then Hugh fell, and dreamed he was
on his back in the channel of the canal, and that
all he wanted for further floating was a little more
water. They gave it to him off the counter; and
as they carried him out in their arms, Hugh kicked
his legs and extended his hands as though he were
buffetting his way through the great torrent
They put him to bed at St. Kilda, Hugh still strik-
ing out, in the imagination that he was riding the
billows, and that from the banks the cheers of old
friends were saluting his ears. Morning came,
however, and Hugh awoke. The canal was a
myth, but the hit in the eyes was a reality. So he
rolled over in the sheets, and the local paper an-
nounced that there was a great shock of earth-
quake in the suburb that morning. But it was
only Hugh—it was only Hugh; he was saying all
he thought in one word. We were affected the
other day when we met the old man coming out
of the Supreme Court. There was more water in
his eyes than ever there will be in his canal, and as
much grief in his face as would furnish a home
for incurables. The Judge wouldn’t give him a
penny, the jury wouldn’t give him a Denny, for the
hit in the eyes, and Purves laughed like a hyena at
the old man’s sorrow.
The Americans have many peculiarities.
One is a deep-rooted dislike to long titles.
So, when Postmaster - General Saul Samuel
passed through the States, the “ Post-master ”
was dropped, and he passed through Utah
and on to New York as plain “General.” The
military title followed him across the Atlantic ;
and one night, at Sir Daniel Cooper’s, in London,
an Englishman was “ put up ” to ask the “ Gene-
ral” what he thought of the Zulus. Then Saul
became desperate, and, no Witch of Endor being
handy to advise him, he broke out into a cold
sweat. But the honour of Australia was at stake,
and so he started a description of the Zulus, their
appearance, morality, methods of fighting, and
social observances, to a company, many of whom
had served in the South African troubles. How
those Englishmen kept from raising the roof with
laughter will never be known. One of them, who
had not been in Zululand, and who believed the
“ General ” to be merely detailing the result
of his experience, turned to a man who
had just come back from an Australian tour
with a circus, and said: “ Where did the
—ah—General obtain—er— his rank ?” The show-
man saw his show, and, with a look of astonish-
ment, answered: “Why, in Australia, of course,
where some o’ the bloodiest engagements o’
modern times have been fought out. Zulus, in-
deed! Pshaw! Drop some o’ the Australian
tribes at the Cape, an’ a week after you’d find
them in the Nile valley, driving all the Zulus and
the Caffres and the Hottentots before them, into
the Mediterannean. Did you never hear of the
sack of Milparinka?” “No,” said the English-
man, confused at his ignorance. “Nor the Passage
of the Bogan, the raid on Dead Dog Gully, the
cutting-up of the Gongolgan flying artillery at the
Jackass Waterhole, or the charge of the loafer
cuirassiers at the free banquet in Richmond pad-
dock?” “ I confess I never heard of these impor-
tant affairs,” observed the Anglo-Saxon shifting
uneasily in his seat. “Well, I don’t wonder at the
Australians complaining of the ignorance of Eng-
lishmen. Why, it was only the other day the pas-
sage of the Bogan and the Milparinka business
took place. Before they came to the main stream
the troop had to cross a dry billabong on a fallen
tree in the face of a murderous fire of waddies and
nardoo from the legions of King Paddy of Bourke.
General (then corporal) Samuel at the head of
the Kent-street tirailleurs made a flank movement
roundasheoak, and doubled up Patrick’s skirmish-
ing companies on the main body. But Milparinka
was the place! That’s where the skin and hair
flew. It is on the direct road to the Metropolis,
and if the niggers had stormed it that day public-
house property in Sydney wouldn’t have been
worth a day’s purchase.”
* ♦ •
W. E. Qualtrough succeeds the late Mr.
Nixon as editor of the Northern Argus... Joe
Bartley, an old Bega pioneer (for thirty years re-
sident at Greig’s Flat), died last week, aged 73
Old identities gone to their own place:—On I3th
lost., T. D. Russell, of Hampton Court, Rolands
Plains, Port Macquarie; on 15th Inst., “Ginger”
Dalton, an old Newcastle hand, widely known
among the coal-trimmers and wharf labourers;
on the 13th inst., Miss Lydia Wardley (sister of the
late Dr. Wardley), aged 78, for very many years a
resident of Parramatta—There are two treats in
store for the great mass of Australians. One is to
hear Mr. Taylor, the Coonamble attorney, toll an
Irish story; the other is to hear Carr-Boyd, the
explorer, play a solo on a gum-leaf. Carr is the
veritable JEolus oi the back-blocks: and Taylor,
who is the best raconteur ever listened to on or off
the Australian stage should be brought to Sydney
and subsidised by Government to amuse people.
....The Southern district constabulary (N.SW.)
mean to erect a monument to the memory of
their old superintendent. Captain Zouch. Each of
the members, says the Goulbukn Heraud, have
(by permission of the Inspector General ) agreed to
set aside one day’s pay towards that object. Why
“ by permission” ? Couldn’t they have subscribed
what they liked without the Inspector-General s
sa’ ction? Thank you for nothing, capt. Fosbery.
“ Another Bishop” (evidently Pearson, of
Newcastle), in a letter to Gabranny, combats the
idea that Moncuro Conway is a leader of modern
thought. In this we agree with the Right Reve-
rend Father in a shovel (a —- shovel, as Dr. Moor-
house’s Tatlara friend would have it); only was it
necessary to drag in for the 500th time all about
‘my long residence at an English university?”
As a rule, long residence at an English univer-
sity develops a purely pedantical igno-
rance ; and if “Anfher Bishop” knows
anything about Conway’s position in the
world of culture, ’tis in spite, not because, of
his lengthened hybernation in rusty donship
The petition of Miss Louisa Australia Blaxland,
recently presented to the N.S.W. Legislative As-
sembly, contains the fallowing paragraph;—“His
(the late Hon. John Blaxland’s) family home,
Newington,’ was well-known far and near, and is
still remembered for its flowing hospitality, as is
the venerable name of (John Blaxland) ‘the fine
old English gentleman.’ And it is this his home,
Newington, and its chapel, and that portion of its
land purchased by the late Government at £4000,
that your petitioner would beseech your honor-
able House to bestow upon her, his only surviving
child born in the colony (being in very straitened
circumstances), in noble gratitude for his faithful
services, he having succeeded so nobly in carry-
ing out the wishes and designs of the Imperial
Ministry in leading the gigantic work of colonisa-
tion for men like himself, of wealth and substance,
and in their far-seeing object of opening up new
industries in a new world.”..Charles CoUins, first
Mayor of Narrabri ...Surveyor D. 8. Carr-Boyd,
son of late Dr. Carr-Boyd, and brother of the well-
known explorer, died suddenly at Brisbane,
Sunday; heart disease.. A man who professes to be
heir to the Balnaga Estates, Co. Limerick, Erin-go-
bragh, waiting trial at Blackall (N.Q.), charged
with “doing” the Windorah folk to somewhere
about the tune of a cool “ thou.”
• • •
Lord Alexander Russell, commander of the
British troops in Canada, is a tartar. He has revived
the absurd practice of the bands escorting; the gar-
risons to church, and issued orders that all troops
not absolutely employed during the hours of wor-
ship shall attend church. Yearsago we remember
Alec in command of a battalion of the Rifle Brigade,
forming a part of the 4th Division in the Crimea.
Then he played vingt-un Sunday through; and,
as stage-manager of the Divisional Theatre, he
raised no objection to rehearsals on the Lord’s
Day. He’s more religious now, but as we take it
not so much of a good fellow, unless goodness
consists, as the Very Reverend Dean believes,
in making everyone about you miserable on
week-days, and utterly wretched on Sunday..
Nathaniel Montgomery, Lieut.-Colonel command-
ing the 1st Battalion Welsh Regiment (old 41st) and
the moveable column on the Tugela, Natal, died on
the 21st Sept, from the bite of a snake. His mili-
tary record was good. He was a brother of Mrs.
C. Moore, of Springwood, Blue Mountains.
New South Wales.... Apropos of Oscar Wilde’s
contemplated appearance on the stage, an
exchange politely remarks: “A cat that would
not gladly die for the privilege of haviug
its dead body thrown at Oscar Wilde as Romeo
must have a very poor comprehension of the
beauties of Shakespeare.” The insults offered
to King Alfonso in Paris have recalled the fact
that, when Queen Victoria came to the throne,
she was hissed and hooted at Ascot, not by a mob,
but by Lords and Ladies, who called her “Mis.
Melbourne.” — Mrs. Langtry won in the beauty
ballot in England, leading the pole with 819 votes.
Daisy Vane received 758, Miss Fortescue 119, Mrs
Welden 73, and “ The Peerless Evelyn Rayne ” only
11. A new poll for handsomest man is started
Victor Hugo doesn’t believe in the eight-hour
law. He only works four hours a day... King
Alfonso, of Spain, is described as “an insipid little
creature, who is given to cigarettes and garlic
Lieutenant Simpson, of the 3rd U.8. Cavalry, re-
cently married his mistress, for which offence he
aas been tried by court-martial on the charge of
conduct unbecoming an officer and a gentleman,
and dismissed the service. His triers held that an
officer and a gentleman may seduce a woman and
keep her as his mistress, without infringing mili-
tary etiquette, but that by marrying her he loses
so much caste as to merit being cashiered. This
speaks volumes for the high moral tone of the
U.S. army —It is stated that "the” Langtry in
England socially is as dead as the proverbial door-
nail. She has neither received nor been received
by the high and mighty since her return to old
England. This shows much harshness on the
part of such virtuous and high-toned people as the
Countess of Shrewsbury (Mrs. ex-Mlllcr-Munday),
the Duke of Marlborough (ex-Marquis of Bland-
ford), and Lord Lonsdale.... It is believed that the
Laureate s elegy on the Queen’s gillie will not be
something like the following:—
Johnnie Brown,
Johnnie Brown,
Dead as a door-nail.
Into the shades of death.
Into the grizzly tomb;
Bone-yards to right of him.
Bone-yards to left of him,
Bone-yards all ’round him.
Heterogeneous,
Hydrocephatical,
Octogenarian.
Hie Jacet Mortibus,
Old John Brown.
— That pestilential American humbug, Sergeant
Bates, who some years ago, dragged the coat tails
of the Great Republic through England, by parad-
ing the U.S. flag from South to North, has started
off on another notoriety-tramp, carrying the “Old
Flag” through the Southern ex-Rebel States. There
seems to be hopes that he’ll be “ lumbered ” as a
vagabond this time, without creating International *
complica ions or a civil war.... The tidings of Pro-
fessor Denton’s death, per cable, to America, got
mixed up with the eruption at Karakaua, and the
Yankee papers put him down as one of the victims
of the earthquake... .Count Lagrange, whose death
is just announced, was the grandson of the cele-
brated author of “La Mecamque Analytique.”. ..
The coming American novelist is Mr. Howells,
author of “ Venetian Life.” Mr. H. has the good
fortune to be a poet; so no miscreant, on opening
a book of bis, can exclaim, with emphasis,
“ These poems are Howell’s.” Lord Derby has
an income of about £200,000 per annum, yet he
works for his country for a “screw” of £5000 a
year officially. He is childless, never gives any-
thing away but advice, keeps up an establishment,
and has a hobby of tree-planting The tact that
Mr. Luke White’s intended marriage with Lady
Lonsdale is contradicted, is counterbalanced by
the announcement of the most extraordinary one
ever remembered in the English peerage. The
Earl of Mountcashell, a toothless, tottering dotard
of ninety-two, is to wed a pretty daughter
of a well-known colonel. Yet women who
sell themselves in the street are spurned
Whenever Mrs. Gladstone puts the Premier out
some new clothes, he always puts them carefully
out of the way, and goes on wearing his old baggy
things. Then she drops him a gentle hint at
breakfast, but he just goes on thinking about
Egypt and other things, that women can’t see any
sense in, until she bribes the servant to take away
his old clothes while he’s asleep. Then he puts on
the new ones, and suffers dreadfully for a week or
so—A bust of Fielding, called the “father of
English novelists,” was unveiled in his birthtown
of Taunton by Mr. J. R. Lowell, the American
Ambassador in England, in a gem of a speech.
But, re his felicitous eloquence, Vanity Fair
opens out in a burst of plain speaking, which
rather dims its effect: We stick up busts to him,
we found nice little Clubs in his honour, and de-
vour the midnight beefsteak from a silver grill in
his memory, but as a matter of fact, no one reads
Fielding now-adays. What man would present
his lady-love with a copy of ‘ Tom Jones ?’ What
mother would give ‘ Amelia ’ to her daughter? In
this blessed year of grace there is none that read-
eth Fielding—no, notone.” An American news-
paper reports the wedding of Major Mite with
Miss Maria Nail, the dwarfs known as the
’* widgets.” The lady, who is thirty-one Inches
high, was attired in a white satin dress, with court
train with pearl ornaments, and a long white veil
interwoven with orange blossoms. Major Mite,
who was born in Moscow, and whose real name is
Zmaris, is forty-two inches high in his shoes.


F
INEST CIGARETTES. FINEST CIGARETTES
ARE
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR,
Manufactured by W. S. KIMBALL and CO.,
Rochester, U.S.A.
315 George Street.
A tevr of our undertakings MOST SUCCESS
FULLY carried out, among which will be found
the LARGEST. MOST DIFFICULT, and MOST
RESPONSIBLE events that have taken place sine#
the opening- of this establishment.
1 His Worship the MAYOR’S PICNIC, for 450, at
Clontarf.
His Worship the MAYOR’S BALL, for 1600, Exhi-
bition Building, at which his Worship, John
Harris, entertained their R.H.'s PRINCES AL-
BERT and GEORGE, EARL CLANWILLIAM.
and the Officers of the Detached Squadron.
Visit of their R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Lithgow Valley Mines and Zigzag.
Dinner d la Rime, for 60. in Government Palace
Dining Car while travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000 SCHOOL CHIL-
DREN— re Queen’s Statue Demonstration—under
VERY SHORT NOTICE, only receiving the
order at 2.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot at 12.30
p.m. the following day.
Visit of THEIR R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Captain Cook’s Landing, south side
of Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon and refresh-
ment, for 100, under VERY SHORT NOTICE, re-
ceiving order at 9.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot
at 1 p.m. following day.
MINISTERIAL ENCAMPMENT at the
NATIONAL PARK, Friday and Saturday, 5th
and 6th October, 1883. Breakfasts, Luncheons.
Dinners. &c., for 120 gentlemen.
The LADY MAYORESS’ RECEPTIONS, Town
Hall.
The UNION CLUB BACHELOR’S BALL, at Exut-
bition Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE WINDBYER ' f
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE INNE8.
Dinner d la Rime at St. Paul’s College, for 160 Me < -
bers of the CBURCH OF ENGLAND SYNOD.
Dinnef <i la Ru*»c to the INTERCOLONIAL RIF I tt
TEAMS, Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at HAWKBs-
BURY RACES, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at RANK- '
WICK RACES, in Grand Stand.
The CONSULAR DINNER, in our new Banquet
Room.
ARMIDALE RAILWAY Demonstrations. Ban
quet for 400; MAYOR’S BALL, 600, same evening
and CITIZEN’S BALL, 500, the following even-
ing.
ALBURY-WODONGA RAILWAY DEMONSTRA-
TION.—Grand Government Banquet for 1016
at Albury. Grand Ball, 800, following night.
Children’s feast, 1184, the following afternoon
and evening. Also, Breakfasts, Dinners, Teas,
and Suppers, in Government Dining Car, to
His Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus, the
Ministry, and Ms.P., while travelling to and
from Banquet, &c., &c.
Numerous Banquets and Entertainments bv HIS
WORSHIP THB MAYOR at Town Hall, &c.
Numerous Dinners d la Rime in the N.S W
GOVERNMENT PALACE DINING CAR, whiki
travelling by rail, on account of the GOVERN-
Togother with a numerous lot of Private Dinners,
Feasts, Weddings, Garden Parties, Balls, Tea
MqnUpgs Land Bales, Suppers, Picnics, Fishing
Excursions, &c.
Political Points
It is to Mr. M'Eihone’s credit, that on the
appearance of the Earl Cranberry in i he House
he refused, in a dignified manner, to be covered’
over with a newspaper, A subsequent entreaty
on part of H. B. Smith that he would crawl into A
O. Taylor s shoe was equally unsuccessful.
Bold “John Bull” has grown so infernally
suspicious nowadays, that he sees an “infernal
machine in every mechanical apparatus. The
other day, some patent burglar alarms were
seized at Birmingham as “ internals.”
Th-*t cable now comes sempiternal:—
“ We’ve seized some more machines infernal!”
When John Bull spies a harmless clock now
He feels a most “ infernal ” shock now;
A patent rat-trap now’s a wonder
In which lurks some vile Fenian thunder,
Soon we shall sqe the penny whistle
Arraign’d a vile explosive missile!
The simplest feat of the mechanic
Now hurls a nation into panic;
’Fore the big “bogey” dynamitic
John Bull, in fact s p rown paralytic
It is rumoured that Prince Alexander of
Bulgaria is “ full up ” of ruling that ticklishly-
Situated State, and that having accumulated
several millions by strict attention to business as
a ruler, he is disposed to relinquish the profession
?ri ® ovei 'eign, and retire upon his savings. Prince
Vladimir of Denmark, brother to the Czarina
and the Princess of Wales, is spoken of for the
vacancy but it is doubtful whether he will
catch hold.” Prince Alexander has skinned the
People so thoroughly that Vladimir is not clear
that he could make anything like a decent pile in
a reasonable term of office. The affairs of Bul-
garia are said to be among the ..est-regulated in
Europe Thus appropriations of public money
nr defalcations by officials, have latterly been un-
known. The Prince punished all such offences
With relentless severity, and is understood to have
signified that he was perfectly capable of per-
sonally attending to all the misappropriating and
defalcating which was requisite to keep up the
reputation of Bulgaria among the nations.
Now that fruit ia cheap, and butter only
»d. a pound, it is expected that a movement will
be inaugurated at Kempsey to banquet a very
dif>tiuguished politician, whose attitude in princely
company lately attracted an attention that may be
best described as world-wide. The triumphal
since it was last required, has been
utilised as a hen-roost—is to be delivered from
tnese base uses,” and once more erected ; while
the gifted Dease will pay the local poet’s fine, and
from him one of those encomiastic odes
which have done so much to make old D.’s paper
remarkable. Perhaps the only person who is i
unconscious of the pending movement, at the
Resent time, is the demure gentleman for whom
rue honours are intended, f ou must have guessed
littha ’a?p' ° f course : if not “but jingle, jingle,
The Smiths elected to the house
Just count one more than three :
A Syd., a Bruce, a quiet T. R.,
And one SUBLIME B. B. 1
8o small the other Smiths to him,
'1 hey might have ne’er been born ;
And were he not called Smith, himself
He’d hold that name in scorn.
No common “ Bob ” is his prefix ;
He’d shun that name, you bet;
No .—with a gush of patchouli—
The rhythm of “ Burdett.”
A„ T . h l ( ' om » ande / of the Slack Flags in
t ,” a “ has addressed a manifesto to the French,
;L“ S , J ou a . r l* frje-booters. Like tigers of
the world, seeking how to give vent to craftv
W°hieh^vn^m 01 ’“m 1 ,f eeds ’ T1)ere is no land for
hich your month does not water, no riches that
you do not desire to devour. Religious teaching
employ to undermine and corrupt the people.
Intel national commerce is to you a pretext fur
swallowing countries Your cruelty is intinite
your wickedness extreme. < »n i our strength vnu
rely to debauch our women. Now you want to
ai ail j ourselves of an excuse to ndeavour to ac-
Anam, and under pretext of international
to depart trom a treaty, trying to be-
fool the world in order to give vent to your
martial desians and seize cities, storm towns
slaughtering officials, robbing the revenue, killing
Thic 1 £ no £,# nt i’ . and encouraging secret bonds.”
, 18 awful true as applied to the French, and
he nh«nmfoi^ tl | y i lng Jt i® re,iPCt that it would
8e anc * devoid of point had it
been addressed to our own nation by a leader of
e a pl^ew Hebrides, or New
Guinea, or South Africa, or India, or Fgypt.
* * ♦
Poole warlts a sessional select railway oora-
mittee to deal with projected lines. Why not a
Sessional Grand Committee to deal with Parlia-
mentary private bills ? Were there one, a Tues-
? ?} on td would probably enable the
House to dispose of such business, and so save
three days per mensem for the consideration of
—Should eighty members speak to
the Land Bill on the second reading, we are pre-
pared to bet that seventy of them at-least won’t
be able to get through without a reference to the
settlement on the soil of sunny New South Wales
of a happy and prosperous people. There’s a lino
ring about the remark, especially when ejected
from the os rntundum of a Dan O’Connor. By the
bye, Dan had evidently been reading his BullboCin
before speaking on Thursday) since in his perora-
tion when urging the necessity of trying in the
general interests to make the best of the Bill to
hand, he was simply echoing our views.
Commander Hutton, with a fresh crew,
to relieve Commander Johnstone and old crew of
the Dryad at Tamatave.... A Kussian sensation is
the arrest at the Miria Institute of several daugh-
ters of the noblest families in the Empire as
Nihilists. Thousands of Nihilist pamphlets and
tracts have also been seized Sir John M’Donald,
at the late Canadian election, was returned to the
Domini..a Pailiament for the county of Lennox
as well as for that of Carleton. He has been un-
seated lor Lennox for bribery, but retains his seat
for Carleton!—Hear ex-Queen Isabella is so fu-
rious at the reception which the Parisians gave
Alfonso, that she has actually threatened to leave
the French capital. Even the murky moral
atmosphere of Paris would get clearer if the
abominable old creature should carry out her
threat
A newly imported slavee recently left her
glace at North Shore in disgust, because during
er absence with the groom at a warden party,
two gentlemen called on her, and when she re-
turned her mistress omitted to mention it.
“Who is the Press?” a>ked Mr. M’Elhone,
at Murrurundi. We were up the country the other
day and gave the query as the text for the boys
and girls who form the royal anttdeluvian society
of boPrSeotch down our lane, and the prize (the
staff of life spread with molasses) has been awarded
to Miss Lizaran Flibberts, cetat 7, daughter of the
editor of a certain N.Q. religious paper. Here
it is
Who is the Press?
Pa is. The Press has long beards with amber
drops on, aud waits outside the public house white
his friend goes in to see if he calls “ right” for two
drinks. When very tired nights, the Press don’t
take off his boots to go to bed, and often being
fond of the stars lies out with his bead on the
wood-heap and his feet in the wash-house The
Press has always got his pockets filled with little
bits of dirty paper, full of writing that nobody
can read, but beats my rda when she lights the Are
with any of it. The Press writes hours on the
kitchen-table, but hardly any of it is put in print
When it is in print the Press goes straight to the
public-house, and when it isn't he uses bad words
and kicks the kilteu. Pa has been the Press ever
since he left the wood-cartiug. 1 wish he would
go back to it, as I’ve forgotten the taste of butter.
Here’s the Pness just coming in now. He has a
black eye, the Press has, and has lost his hat. Pa’s
the Press.
MR. GOLDC AKE’S THRILLING ADVENTURE.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
A temperance movement is shortly to be
started among: the Homan Catholic priests of this
colony.
Judging by present statistics, dogmatic
Christianity has, through the Luther reformation,
pten not a gainer, but a luther, in Germany. In
tact, owing to science and free-thought the bonds
winch bound men to bigotry are every day there
growing luther and luther.
Hallelujah !!! Peter Campbell arrived in
Sydney on Friday, after doing many thousand
miles of travel, two thousand of which were per-
petrated in the saddle. We rejoice that it was not
pur horses he used. Mendicant Peter on horse-
back is a truly edifying exception to the rule
about setting a beggar on. etc., since in the pro-
verb the rider goes to the devil, while in our
pious triend’s case he has not only succeeded in
not getting there yet, but is actually on the high
road to glory, via Box No. 586.
From the Herald “ The indisposition of
many churchgoers to listen to long sermons is
evidentlya source of ribulatlon to some of the
clergy. It must bo unpleasant to a preacher to
observe that just before he mounts the pulpit a
number of persons make a point of marching out.
In some places the clergy have hit on an expedient
for preventing this. Thus a rector cau 'ht his
congregation by delivering the sermon first. The
next Sunday they caught the clergyman by com-
ing in an hour later. The next step will be to
lock doors. Yes-to lock doors altogether. And
the step after that for the parsons will be the
doorstep.
This Is how Mr, Gannon put it in a case in
which the Salvation Army was interested, the
other day, at the Goulburn Court:He thought
the bench should take into consideration what
seemed to him to be the only question they had to
decide, viz., whether these mock religious bodies
composed greatly of lazy loafers and old gaol-
birds, had any right by any law or usage, to block
up streets and offer obstacles to legitimate traffic
and to frighten the horses of those who used the
streets in their legitimate business by the detest-
able ‘music,’ and howling of their songs o
hymns; ho was aware of no authority under which
they could claim any right to do so, and so attract
a u prpwd of followers, among whom were manv
children and youths, who, from idle curiosity, ran
after them, without seeing the danger to which
they exposed themselves.”
The Coffee Palace Hotel, Melbourne, wit-
nessed a very lively scene last week; in fact (we
may as well out with It at once), about two hun-
dred members of the Victorian Presbyterian
Assembly sat down to a supper—breakfast, we
mean—as guests of the Moderator. Smart jokes
wore being cut over the toast, and naughty tales
being dropped into the coffee, >* hen, at a word
trom the Moderator, what he most inhospitably
termed ‘ the real business of the meeting’ began
Brethren, a few favoured brethren, were desired
to hold forth tor the benefit of the company , and
they did their work like men. The conversion of
i aborigines to Christianity, and the conversion of
Presbyterian clergymen to total abstinence, were
topics eloquently dwelt upon, all of the old
. wheesky” drinkers present expressing joy at the
intelligence that “the majority of the young
ministers of the church were teetotallers.” Finally,
the Rev. Moderator waxed jocular over the recent
wrapglings of the Assembly, observing that “ the
kindest way of uealing with some people is to take
them by the scruff of the neck and give them a
good shaking.” What a pleasure some people
would feel in “dealing kindly” with those self-
satisfied presbyters!
Well, well! Once more he’s bobbed up
serenely. Speaking of a reverend we say this, of
course, reverently; even sing it to the tune of the
Old Hundredth. Learn, then, that “Old Pyra-
mids”—a slip, this—has appeared once more, and
this time at Warrnambool; and the editor of the
Stand* d there—who seems to have a merrie
wit of his own (born perchance of potatoes)—con-
cludes his pur. about Mr. Westwood as follows;—
“ As Mr. Westwood stated during the service that
he was supported in his mission work by
voluntary contributions, many of those present
expected a collection would bo taken up, and we
heard regret expressed that such was not done.”
The editor knows—or should know—that it is not
the rev. gentleman’s invariable custom to pass
about the plate, preferring to call personally on
the benevolent with a sack. So, wo have not the
slightest doubt in the world that when “ Old P.”
looked ia on the following morning and suggested
the propriety of the last subscriber’s subscrip-
tion in chickens an.I ‘-spuds” being- bestowed
upon Emmanuel, the newspaper man didn’t
consider he hud so much the best of the-
joke. We are glad, anyhow, to hear of
our old pal again, and congratulate him upon not
yet being* gathered to the blest. By the way, we
remember a bush evangelist who was a great
success in Adelaide. He used to start out on
Sunday afternoons to call the wicked to repent-
ance, followed by all the pea-nut men and apple-
vendors in the city. If the rev. gentleman were
unusually long before he commenced his oration,
some of the more bold of the peripatetic mer-
chants would address such queries to him as.
Where s the pitch to-day, mister ?” or ” Goin’
to try yer luck here, old ’un ?” and much merri-
ment would bo the result. The rev. gentleman's
favourite stand was just outside the Park Lands,
facing Johnny Hall's Temperance Hotel. (Fancy
Johnny Hall having a Temperance Hotel I) Then
the people would roll up, the ginger-beer corks
begin t>. pop, and the boys to execute on the grass
w ,, r ? d , ang ' ocs around the pastor. Some had
quite little picnics, and varied the proceedings
during long extempore supplications with games of
pitch-and-toss, grab-halfpenny, ‘ heading then,”
and other religious recreations. The police (with
whom the reverend preacher was at issue) never
attended at these demonstrations. They mew he
couldn’t come to very much barn anyhow. I
for instance, ho was once or twice knocked t o \ n
by a cocoanut, or floored by an apple, ihe barrow-
keepers—it being Ju their Interest to prolong the
entertainment—Invariably set him up again. On
one occasion we remember him to be bowled over
hy a parsnip, and on his not being able, after being
bathed in ginger-beer, to “come up to time,” the
merchants fell upon the author of the bombard-
ment and belaboured him soundly. In fact, as we
have already hinted, the rev. gentleman was unite
popular.
• • •
Dr. Steel lectured last week on the Life
of Luther, “specially for young persons,” Ho
impressed on the assembled juveniles the linport-
ance of loving thoTruih. especially as (aught in
the Scripture. Steel probably desires to have
Truth on his side, but that “ specially as taught in
the Scripture ** shows how indifferent he is to
being on the side of real Truth.
♦ ♦ *
Some of the female Salvationists have
turned their attention to going off into “trances ”
during army meetings, and beholding “all the
■dories that shall bo.” Although a new game over
here, this particular form of religious hysteria is
liiite played out in England, where the “lasses”
ire rather partial to being ministered unto by i heir
brothers while in an unconscious (?) state
It is not because little Bobby Brisbane
Byrne's paper is not always very funny, that it
precludes the fact of his being a born humourist.
He says:— ‘ A mistaken impression appears to have
gone abroad last Friday morning that Figaro was
def unct. Many friends called round at my office
during that morning to condole with iie. ' .
1 will be candid with my readers. One of the chief
members of my staff—to whom had been allotted
the llon’sshareof the literary work of the week—
was ill. And, boys, he—well, he forgot to (tire me*
due notice that he was goino to he ill." Everything
here is Byrne's—humour, ingenuousness, even the
italics! If this mode of explaining tilings were
adopted in Sydney, the result would be curious*
But wo are more discreet here. There is never
any ‘scandal about Queen Elizabeth" in this city.
It is regarded as the flrst duty of an editor to bring
bis paper out up to time; bailing out the staff is
quite an after consideration.
My wife ami daughter were made healthy
by t e use of Hop Bitters, and I lecommend it to
my people.—Methodist Clergyman. Bead.
1. “O Lor!” said Mr. Goldcake, “I hear a burglar
poimding, pounding, poimding away down stairs!
Help!! Holl! Murder!!!”
2. Making a hasty toilet, he proceeds to alarm the
neighbours and police.
to begin the day’s worruk, but ye must be callin’ in the murtbeim’ perlice D’ylztakeme for atief


ICli-e USelisu’ble IB’u.g'grie© I
mu
KSSSfiSS^em
NO SECOND CHEAP HOUSE.
22 and 24 CLARENCE STREET, ONLY,
FOR GOOD GOODS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS & WAGGONETTES,
BACKBOARD WAGGONS, AND EVERY STYLE OE BtJGGY.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Clarence -street.
CHINA & GLASS AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
BEOKEN SEE VICE S MATCHED, and made up cotnplete.
CHINA REPAIRED.
Every description of China or Glass Eeht bh tlire.
CHINA IMPORTER AND DEALER,
Corner of Eoyal Arcade, Sydney.
'AJMLKB
tic
MF
MARTIN - c°-
909 ftfeonGE STREET, SYDNEY.
our* Lawn Mowers
are all GUARANTEED,
and bo confident are wo of always being able
to give satisfaction that we will send
our Lawu mowers on d]itirUVdl.
Ilwi Mower Trade
and have in Stock all sizes, so the require-
ments of everyone can be met.
Our Prices range from 30 Shillings,
and any Purchaser who is dissatisfied afteP
trial, is at liberty to return the machine at
our expense.
We Invite Inspection, and cheerfully
<• furnish every information.
REMEMBER.* WE GUARANTEE EVERY LAWN MOWER WE
AUTHOR, LEADING ACTOR, COMEDIAN, and
MIMIC,
“ One of the most versatile artists on the London
stage.”—London Daily Telegraph, January 1881.
BEGS to announce that he will make his re-
appearance in MELBOURNE on Saturday,
December 8th, for seven nights only, at the
BIJOU THEATRE, where he will have the honor
of presenting, for the FIRST TIME IN THE
COLONIES, his great Sensational Domestic
Drama, entitled,
THE WANDERER!
played by bim with ENORMOUS SUCCESS in the
“ old country.”
TEARS, SMILES, and ROARS of LAUGHTER 1
The Wanderer ! The Wanderer !
The Wanderer!
Tour commences Boxing Night, December 20th.
Mr. Glover’s Repertoire will include several of
his own Dramas, Comedies, Farces, &c. Amongst
others,
‘‘THE WANDERER I”
“WEAVING A WEB 1 ”
“ THE SPIDER AND THE FLY I ”
“ MABEL’S DREAM,” &c.
Managers, requiring a “big draw” and “sure
success,” kindly communicate. Theatres required
on Recital or Share.
Address :
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
CAUTION.— Legal proc codings will at once
toe instituted against anyone “PIRATING” the
Dialogue, Plot, Scenes, Title, or Effects of any of
my Plays.
<U1
M
BRA HOUSE
and Manager W. J. Wilson
Continued Success of
R, WYBERT REEVE
and his Comedy Company.
Brilliant Audiences. Enthusiastic Reception.
Last Night but one of Sardou’s masterpiece,
DIPLOMACV
Immense Success of COLONEL IKE AUSTIN,
assisted by his Manager, Mr. A. Litherland Cunard,
who will appear each evening in their
MARVELLOUS FEATS of FANCY SHOOTING.
Magnificent Scenery and Stage Appointments.
Stage Manager .. .. Mr. Herbert Flemming
Acting Manager .. .. Mr. J. W. Dodge.
Overture at 8 : carriages, 10.30.
Box office at Huenerboln’s, 411 Geo.-st. Tickets
may bo obtained at Roberts’s, next Theatre.
Prices as usual.
SATURDAY NEXT, December 1, Paul Merritt’s
Comedy Drama, STOLEN KISSES.
THEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & Musqbovb.
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
The Crowning Triumph of the Season I
THIS and EVERY EVENING,
at a quarter to 8,
LA MASCOTTE I LA MASCOTTB I
Prices as usual. Box office open from 11 till 4..
General Business Manager, Mr. H. H. Harwood.
Great success at temperance hall
Dr. SIMMS, who has no equal in reading
character and diseases 1T< m the face, will deliver
an Illustrated and Entertaining Lecture on the
“Skin, Neck, Cheeks, Forehead, Memory (its
Cultivation),” at Temoeranoe Hall, on Saturday
Evening, December 1st; continuing on “ Hair,
Feet, Hands, Hand-writing,” on Tuesday Evening,
December 4th. Bach day during this course
(which is his last for ever in Sydney) Dr. Simms
will describe Health and Chafctmtor at his private
rooms, at Temperance Hall, Pitt-street, giving
coart and written delineations.
“The lineaments of the body do disclose the
disposition and inclination of the mind.”—Bacon..
“ For by his face straight shall you know his
heart.”— Shakespeare “ The character of a man
can be read in nis face.”—English Cyclopcedia. ..
“ Let the Physiognomist examine his features.”—
Pope”..." There is nothing truer than Physiognomy
taken in connection with manners.”—Dickens.
“ Dr. Simms is known as a most skilled practical
physiognomist.”—Pictorial World, London...“ The
author is a true physiognomist, and is known as
one of the most interesting popular lecturers we
have.”—Human Nature, London—“He is the
most able and the most popular exponent of phy-
siognomy among living men.”—The Monetary and
Mining Gazette, London “Dr. Simms reads
character and diseases from faces as though they
were open books.”—The Times.
POPULAR CONCERTS
PROTESTANT HALL.
—
POPULAR ARTISTS 1
POPULAR PRICES—3s. and Is.
Conductor
Mr. Charles Ht
MISS ALICE SYDNEY BUHVETT,
THE AUSTRALIAN PIANISTB,
will give a
PIANOFORTE RECITAL,
On TUESDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 4th,
at the
TOWN HALL,
The First Appearance in Sydney of this celebrated
Australian Artiste.
Tickets at W. H. Paling, George-street; and at
Farmer and Co., Pitt-street.
rpOWN HALL, MUDGEtS.—M-Lean’s Comic
JL Opera and Pantomime Company, in their
Grand Christmas Pantomime, entitled, “Alpine
Apples,” or Harlequin William Tell, in three acts,
by the acknowledged pantomimists of Australia,
by the acKnowipagea pantomimists of Australia,
localised and adapted for this company by Lewis
Scott, Esq., of Sydney. They will play at the
above Hall for the Christmas holidays, commencing
December 26th,'with new scenery by W. Kinchega,
of Sydney ; gorgeous dresses, local hits and new
pantomime tricks. On their way to Mudgee, will
stop at Lithgow for 20th and 21st December.
Musical Director, H. Lohse. Alf. James, agent.
EDUCATIONAL.
-1%/riSS LYDIA HASTINGS instructs in VOICE
JjL BUILDING, ELOCUTION, PUBLIC and
PARLOUR READINGS, Class at SYDNEY
ICIIOOL OF ARTS, Friday, 4 p.m.; and at
SYDNEY ARCADE, Room 35, Thursday, 8 p.m.,
Wednesday, 8 p.m. (Ladles and Gentlemen).
Visitors Invited,
Private Lessons, for Ladies or Gentlemen,
84 HUNTER STREET, opposite Bllzabeth-street.
Terms for Schools or Clubs on application.
THOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR OF THE
ZULU WAR.
Newcastle—19th November to December 3.
Maitland—December 6 th.
Sydney to follow, with George Gordon’s magni-
ficent
DIORAMA OF THE EGYPTIAN WAR I
W. H. THOMPSON, Proprietor.
8YL. RYAN, Agent.
Will. Howard Smith & Sons
(liMtiteb)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS.
Offices: 43 KING STREET.
WharveS : Foot of King-strhht.
Steamers for MELBOURNE MONDAYS, WED-
NESDArs, and FRIDAYS.
Steamert fdr BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday
Steamers Brisbane to Bundaberg, Gladstone, and
Port Mackay, every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
Buninyong .. 3000 Geelong
1000
1000
1500
500
Barrabool
Burwah
Cheviot
Derwent
Edina
Gabo..
♦Balmain
♦ To arrive.
WM. HOWARD SM±TH & SONS (Limited),
42 King Street, Sydney.
Keilawarra ..
Konoowarra
Leura ..
Moreton
Redondo
YOU Yafags ..
500
900
1500
1500
TOD
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 19th November, 1883.
TENDERS FOR ADDITIONS.
TENDERS are invited for Additions to the
. ublic School buildings at Moorflelds, neat*
Canterbury. , '
Plans and Specifications tttay bbsebtu attd Forms
of Tender obtained fit the offlbe of the Debaft*
nient or Ptibllc Instruction, Sidney;
TendetS, ehdorSed “ Tfender fbr Additions,”
Moorflelds Public School,” ihtlst be lodged with
the Acting Under-Secretary, Department of Pub-
lic Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock a.m., on
Monday, the 10th De-ember, 1883.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender. _
G. H; REID:
Debattment of Public Works,
Sydney, Slst NovCmbbr, 1883.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.—tenders are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are Strictly compiled
W The Goverchient does not bind itself to acCfeflt
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received a t
this office.^
&b„ Pol and Telegraph
Offi ce,’ Inverell
Erection of Kitchen, &c., Court
and Watch House, Trunkey
Erection of New Courthouse,
Inverell
Contract 2Tm Mount Pleasant
Deviation, Road Kiama to
Gerrlgong
Erection of Telegraph Office at
Armidale
Engine-house, Bathurst Water
Works
Forage for Shunt Horses at
Newcastle
Cast Iron Pipes, North Shore
Water Supply. „
Construction of. Steam Boiler,
Darllnghutst Gaol.
Supply of Billet Wood for thO
Railways during 1884.
Surface Drainage, Victoria Bar-
racks.
4th December,
at 11 o’clock.
Completion of Works, Trial
Bay Prison.
Supply of Glass Cases, Sydney
University.
Buffalo-road, Field of Mars
Common, contract 30m.
d'Garr’s Creek-road, Pittwater,
contract 30m.
[load Pittwater to Barrenjoey,
contract 82m » .. E
Construction dnd Er8cllc,n, of
Tarpaulin Shed at Evelelgn.
Extension of Tramway to
Leichhardt.
Erection of Wharf, Five Dock
Erection of Asylum for Infirm
and Destitute Women at New-
ington
Bridge over Lagoon at Forbes,
road Orange to Forbes
Bridge over Curra Creek, 1st
and 2nd crossings, road Wel-
lington to Buckenbah.
Conveyance of Coals for the
usd of Dredgfel aiid Tbgs at
Shoalhaven, Myall, Maiming,
Macleay. Clarence, Richmond,
and Bellinger Rivers, 1884.
Annual Contracts Harbours and
Rivers Departmen . 1884.
Supply of Coal for Dredges and
Tugs, Sydney Harbour, and
for Fitzroy Dock, 1884.
11th December,
at 11 o’clock.
Supply of Rolling Stock Rail-
way Department.
Bridge oVeh Back Creek* at
Cobhia
Bridge over Duck Creek, road
Wardell to nallina.
Iron Steam Ferry Punt for Hex-
ham, Hunter River.
Road, Fern mount to Graft n
and Armidale-road, Confracts
31 and B2m.
Bridge over TllbUster Creek,
Road Armidale to Rockval ■.
Superstructure of Seven
Wrought Iron Bridges for
Railway Extension Homebllsh
to Waratah.
Erection rf Station Buildings,
&c., Girilambone.
Abutments and Piers for Over-
bridge at Goulburn, G.S.
Railway.
Completion ol
Office, Sydney.
New Lands
18th December,
at 11 o’clock.
21st December,
at II o’clock.
New Dock, Cockatoo Island,
Contract No. 2.
8th January,
1884, •
at 11 o’clock.
Manufacture and Supply of
150,000 Tens of Steel Rails.
10th February.
1885,
at 11 o’clock
F. A. WRIGHT.
TRY THE
Titiorii-Uin Polish!
ONCE TRIED WILL BE USED ALWAYS.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Season* cahds.-xmas, new bear
FRIENDSHIP, BIRTHDAY . an *JiS»*
PICTURES for Scrap Books, made up in pa c ““* g
it Is., 2s., 3s., and 4s., per dozen, good value, a ,
ind Birthday, good caids, 6d., 9d., ls., L-£'‘ kgE
5s. 6d., and 3s, each, post paid.
WALLACE, 63, William-street,
The choicest Australian floral
CARDS
are those published by
Messrs. TURNER and HENDERSON,
and only
To be OBTAINED at their ESTABLISHMENT
in Hunter-street.
They are very chaste and lovely, and can be had
with or without Christmas mottoes. All have
botanical names at foot of card.
Price, Is. each ; 10s. per dozen, post free.
PRESENTS. PRESENTS. PRESENTS.
TURNER and HENDERSON
are now opening
CHOICE GOODS
of every description suitable for the
Coming Season.
Showroom on First Floor.
HAVING just completed extensive alterations
to our premises, we are better prepared
than last year to exhibit our
CHRISTMAS
and
NEW YEAR CARDS.
We cordially invite our friends and customers
to inspect our large and well-selected stock.
JOHN CANTERILL, 235 Oxford-street.
IJUHE ROYAL ARCADE CONSULTATION.
SUMMER CUP of 1883.
2000 Shares, at £ 1 each .. .. £2000.
First Horse will receive £1000, Second Horse £300,
Third Horse £200 ; Starters will divide £250,
Non-starters £250.
Early application requested.
Persons making application for shares are re-
quested to register their letters to insure safe
delivery of same, and to enclose addressed enve-
lope for reply.
Address—
THE ROYAL ARCADE CONSULTATION,
Care of
H. SOLTAN, Junior,
Royal Arcade,
Sydney.
Note.—Application Box at 23 Royal Arcade,
Sydney.
VISIT R. BURGHS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 1TO PITT STREET,
FOR
CHEAPNESS, FIT, AND WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any
part of the Colony.
ELECTORS OF FITZROY" WARD.
THOMAS BIRKS, Builder, of 334 Victoria-
street, is a CANDIDATE for the above Ward, and
respectfully solicits your votes.
ENOS DYER, )
V Hon. Secs.
JOHN GOULD, )
A CONTRIBUTOR to all the leading journals
and magazines of Australia, sup-plies origi-
nal l aders, essays, sketches, &c., and newsletters.
Communications may be addressed to Marco,*’
care of Bulletin office, Sydney.


Clergymen, lawyers, public speakers, and
singers, confirm the opinion of the general public
in regard to Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral. All say It is
the best remedy that can be procured for all affec-
tions of the vocal organs, throat, and lungs.*
Hicks Pasha “on the Annex.”
61n6e none of tbe Sydney papers seem to have
attached any political importance to the big
trouble which chanced to Hicks Pasha atld his
corps d’drmee last week in the Sudan* we have
strung 1 together a few notes just to illustrate what
the affair portends:-The tremendousdlsasterthat
has jUst befallen the Egyptian afmy, which Hicks
Pasha had led into the Sudan, with the view of
putting down the so-called False Prophet—the
Mdhdy who certainly seems, as far as prophecy is
boil denied, to be a reliable sort of fellow—may be
fairly dredited to the Idiotic Pharisaism which in
01 Misr (as elsewhete) ludiices peoples and syndi-
cates to go about removing the motes from the
eyes of their neighbours a long while before they
have made any attempt to get rid of the beams
Out Of thdlr own. Hicks and his army were the
victims to that infernal craze for annexing, which
now agitates the minds of so many fools. He and his
battalions started to the field, where they met their
doom, a long while before they were ready. He
should never have ventured from Obeid, even had
he been sufficiently successful to hold that small
portion of the Sudan which Egypt vaingloriously
Claims to haVe annexed-dt is difficult to know
what good, whether political, social, or moral,
could possibly have been derived from the occu-
pation, seeing that the population of the district
in question is almost entirely composed of
“Malekite ” Mahommedans who reject .vith scorn
and abhorrence the, to them, unorthodox tenets
of " Haneflte ’ Khedive and the ruling clique
at Cairo. Hicks was started off to the Sudah, con-
trary to the best experience, to snuff out the False
Prophet; The Prophet snuffed put Hicks. The
CbriquerCd torCe consisted of 8000 infdntry, 1400
Cavalry, with foUr batteries of Kriipp mountain
and Nordeufelt gunS. With such a corps, the
Wretched man had been Sent to combat a patriot
leader representing, at the very least, 10,000,000
men, not to mention that the Mohdy possessed, be-
sides, the sympathy of all the i'ellaleen of the
Delta, and the prestige to be derived from an
ancient prophecy which had declared that the
Sear '83 was to be the period of doom for the
Woman corrupters of holy Islam. To have at-
tempted, with such a meagre force as Hicks had
dt his disposal, to occupy Egyptian Sudan, wi.h
the Nile cataracts unturned by those canal
which Gordon long ago declared to be essential to
the Secure ocounalion of all the country South of
Khartoum—With no reserve in the rear upon
Which even if he had been able to keep up com-
munication! he could have retired, and with the
dispiriting knowledge tha the biila of ihefclla-
leen he had left behind him were enthusiastic
sympathisers with the Mohdy, whom they
believed to be One sent by Heaven to institute
judgment dn tbe earth, to drlre to Sheitau Have-
flte d d Shafltb and Giaour, to redeem the
Oppressed, and make the slave go free-to have
Attempted this was madnesg. If Hicks’s army hsc
only represented to Mahommedanism the
unorthodoxy of Tewflk and Co., and the abomina-
bleness of Ottoman-cam-British ascendancy in
Sudan affairs, it would have been bad enough
Unfortunately for British commercial interests'
his army represented England in the eyes of the
men of Sudan, and what the effect of the disaster
may be in Hindoostan goodness only knows The
policy that Wilfrid Blunt suggested In his “Future
of Islam” should have been England’s line-
alliance with the Mohdy. with the ultimate object
of playing the Sudan Malekite against the Ottoman
Havetite card. As it is, besotted counsels have
ruined England’s show. With the the prestige of
a great success over the English troops (for Hicks
and his officers will represent England in the
Mahommedan mind), and backed by the 10,000,000
believers of the Sudan, the Mohdy will have
no difficulty, If He only possess the brain
bower and the will to play the part of an
Abd-el-Kader or an Iba Saoud on a grander
SAale* and make d, bid for the Kallphate. Friendly
with the Mcthdy, England might have secured
what would have been tantamount to a suppres-
sion of the North-eastern slave trade. Unfriendly
she can only hope to put down that traffic by
occupying every fort and every village along the
Ked Sea shore, and by garrisoning every place of
vantage between that coast and Darbur. A great
chance has been fooled away. “ It is to Central
Africa that Islam must look for a centre of gra-
vity,” says perhaps the best authority on the ques-
tion. To Central Africa, Egypt, with English con-
sent, despatches an army under English leadership
to crush out a movement wnich was making essen-
tially for British Interests, To conciliate the cor-
rupt and decadent Ottoman minority in Egypt—
the Tewflk party—England sanctioned an expedi-
tion Which, even if it had been fortunate, could
have done next to nothing to bolster up the waning
power and influence of the Havellte in Upper
E;rypt and the annexed provinces. But the expe-
dition has been unfortunate—wiped out by suen a
total disaster as that which befel the British
in Cabool in 1841. We may now expect
to see a religious war. El Mohdy, puffed up
by victory over the Ottoman and Giaour is liaely
to make another blow before the iron gets cool:
and we don’t for a moment imagine that the few
hundred gens-d’armes and friendly Bedouins
which the hybrid Government of that polluted
miscreant, our bailiff. Tewflk Pasha, has been able
to despatch to Upper Egypt will be able to prevent
the Prophet from making prophecy true by some
such bold and brilliant stroke as the brain and
hand of the oriental warrior has more than once
conceived and executed.
The Municipal Elections
The Municipal elections take place on Saturday,
and as there is a general desire to continue the
work of civic reform inaugurated some months
back, the citizens have a serious duty to perform
—to send to the municipal board representatives
who are fearless, competent, and reliable. Among
the candidates announced is Mr. Sydney Burdekin,
who has now been in the field for Macquarie Ward
for the Jast few weeks. Mr. Burdfekin, besides
being a large and enterprising city property
owner, has had exceptional experience of the
work he is about to undertake. When in Parlia-
ment, his services were marked by thorough-
going and by sound common sense, and for
straight dealing in the municipal work his addition
to the aldermanio body will be acceptable. The
support guaranteed him is large and liberal, and
his election is considered a foregone conclusion.
His committee, however, are anxious that every
vote promised him shall be recorded as early as
early as possible.
Mr. P. MacMahon for Ftzroy Ward.
It is one of the best traits of a good man to take a
defeat well, and then come again. This is the
distinguishing feature of Mr. P. MacMahon’s
character, and now that that gentleman is
announced for Fitzroy Ward for the third time,
his perseverance is certain to be rewarded with
the first position on the poll. The history of Mr.
MacMahon’s success in the country, from the time
of his arrival in 1854 till now, exhibits singular
steadfastness to principle and untiring industry;
and no man more deserving of public confidence
could be chosen for a position of trust. Mr
MacMahon is a self-taught man, and a sound
practical scholar. He is one of the best mathe-
maticians probable in the colony, and though
engaged in a different business, he is competent to
undertake the most difficult road or field survey-
ing, or work of that kind. These qualities give
him especial fitness for a municipal position. He
is, likewise, a good financier, and a first-class busi-
ness man. Mr. MacMahon is now proprietor of
the Macquarie Kond, Circular Quay, to which,
since his sons have joined him, has been added a
large wine and spirit business. Mr. MacMahon is
a Liberal in politics, and a thorough-going muni-
cipal reformer.
Many years agtf* li BHotfibiiad Milesian,
living, or rather dying, at Rushcatter’s fidy, sent
up to the K.C. Presbytery for a praste. As nc
prMte was in, Bishop Bolding went himself —and
had his soul damned for his pains by the expiring
patriot, because he (Dr. Folding) was a Sassenach,
anddidil t hail from the first jim of the ocean. Such,
at least, w«s a yafn that the late Michael Fitz-
patrick used often to telL The tender Christian
sentiment Of which that yarn is too typical is still
Prevalent ifl Il.C. circle's in Sitnuy New South
w aies. In the black robe community, the'straggle
of stolid Saxon and hysteric Celt Still fiercely
wages. A writer, evidently both a cleric and a
Hibernian, contributed to the Evening Lyke of
last Saturday—why he chose a “heretical rag,”
c hn say ?—an article in which he put forward
what he asserted to be the k’rect history of
:r ‘ Vaughan became Archbishop of Sydney.
If the yarn be not true, ’tis at least cleverly
dished up ,> while, if It be true (and we
have a shrewd notion that the best part
or it is soli it shows the dodgery and
chicanery with which things are worked in
a Church professing to be Holy and Catholic. The
story in brief is this: —In ’72, Dr, Croke, now Arch-
bishop of Cashel, then Bishop of Auckland —an
Irishman of Irishmen—managed to induce the
bishops of N.S Wales to petition Cullen to recom-
mend him as Goadjdtor to Folding with right of
succession. Folding, if ho prior to this had been
disappointed in not obtaining the Coadjutorship
for his Vicar-General and brother Benedictine,
Sheeny, declined to interfere, but intimated to
Pio Nono his readiness to accept any man His
Holiness might send him. Cardinal Manning,
with anxiety to circumvent the Irishry, wrote to
Folding offering his services for the good of reli-
gion in N.S.W. Folding thanked Manning, but
JQkde no sign. Hearing subsequently, however,
that Croke had, voWed to cleanse Australia from
that odious dlist of the dark hgeg, the Benedictine,
Folding wrote direct to Flo asklngthatan English-
man and a Benedictine might be appointed,
meaning, though not mentioning by name, Sheehy,
V.G. When Folding’s letter (find '“pence”) reached
Borne, Antouelli propose 1 to His Holiness that
Vaughan * as juSt the ifinti to fill the bilk and Flo,
thinking to oblige Folding and Antonelli at one
and the same time, sent nutproprio mOtU the life-
guardsman-like Frior to Sydney, as coadjutor
cum jure succession 1 !#. The appointment cornered
every one except Vaughan. It made Croke and
the Irishry mad—while it drove poor old Folding
half “off his head.” Indeed, the old gentleman
was only prevented from declining to confirm
Vaughan in his coadjutorial powers oh its
being represented to him that a grave scandal
would probably ensue if he refused. “At
this thought, Archbishop Folding, taking the ad-
vice of other friends, and offering to God fervent
prayers, after many tears and sighs, consents at
last (though he repented afterwards) to make Dr.
Vaughan his sole Vicar-General and Administra-
tor of the Archdiocese in temporalibus et spirituall-
bus.’ such the story I Evidently told hy a bitter
partlzan, and yet possibly true down to the
ground. If so, what a happy family must be
that band of unctuous and reverend brethren,
whose mission it is to preach unity and love and
the cruciflxtion of the passions, yet who can find
time to intrigue against one another for th love
of God, quite persuaded that the apestleS would
have done as they did !
Sergeant Mason, who was sent up for
seven years for snooting at Quitoau, has been par-
doned. We think his crime was inexcusable. A
sergeant of a crack ritle corps should be a dead
shot.
The Panshan Gordeni Lama of After Tibet
despatched an abbot-envoy a few months ago
with 55,000 “catties,” tribute money to Pekin.
On arrival at Ch'eng-tu, his reverence had only
37,100 catties. Having squared it with the local
Viceroy, he is about to be created a C. M.G.
It’s less than ten years ago that Chinese
Gordon wrote of Chinese troops “ However
good their arras, they won’t take care of them.
With all my care, I never could got the beggars to
clean them. Pill the barrel and shako it up and
down—that was the way."
At the Melbourne City Police Court,
Nason Brown was charged with insulting beha-
viour. A myrmidon of the law discovered Nason
ruralisiug on the Yarra bank, perfectly nude with
the exception of his boots and hat, “and,” ex-
plained Kobert, with terrible emphasi , “even
they had holes in them.” Nason accounted for
the cool condition of his body by stating that he
had taken off his shirt to wash it, and was aoout to
do the necessary ironing with a hot brick when
the constable came along. But, being unable to
explain away the indecent holes in his hat and
boots, the Bench imposed a nominal flne.
A bush funeral, more interesting than
usual, took place at Bumburv, between Parkes
and Molong lately, that of Amy and Minnie
Townsland, aged 3 and 4, who died within a few
hours of one another, while their father was
absent in the back country. All their school-
mates mustered at the mother’s house, and a pro-
cession of Hundred followed the coffins, which
were covered with white and blue cloth, and slung
on staves, four young men carrying one, and young
women the other. It took more than an hour for
the foot cavalcade to reach the cemetery, the
children singing various hymns, and closing with
“ There’s a land that is fairer than day. ’ No
gloomy hearse, with all its hideous mummery.
Herbert C Pritchard, Lieutenant 1st
Battalion, Northamptonshire Uegim'etft (old 48th
Foot) appointed A.D.C. to Governor of Cfusens-
lafld;
Eughtiid proposes to erect a statue to
Waghorn, who first, tfiooted the overland route to
India. Several Waghorlis, kinsmen and kins-
women of the overland roUtef, should first be
rescued from their statu quo. which et present is
one of very closo approximation to starvation.
We give on another page, an illustrdttifm
i Messrs. Allt & Co.’s wine and spirit stores —in
Charlotte Place. Truman’s Ale, for which the
firm are agents—is, we find in great demand, so
much so that the firm anticipate some difficulty
in keeping their customer’s properly provided.
We are not surprised, fof certainly the quality is
undeniable.*
A t the Cooma police court, the other day,
Frederick Matthews was charged with criminally
assaulting Elizabeth White. There was no shaking
Eliza’s evidence. From beginning to end it was
plain, plausible, and circumstantial No motive
for trumping up a false charge was even hinted at.
bhe showed the torn clothes, described the precise
spot where the offence had been committed, and
produced the fragments of the Stick she had broken
over his head before he effected bis purpose. But
I the doctor swore that no traces or marks of vio-
lence could be discovered by him, and half a dozen
people swore that at the time the offence was said
to have been committed, as well as for hours pre-
i ceding mid following that time, Matthews was
quietly sitting in an arm-chair doing sums on a
slate. The case was, of course, dismissed; but no
such direct conflict of evidence—a conflict that no
explanation could reconcile— on a question of life
or death has, so far, come under our notice. Per-
haps the Attorney-General may bare something
to say about a perjury prosecution.
On October 18th, Robert Fraser-StfJith,
proprietor of the Hongkong TkleqrapH (Band-
mann’a “friend"), was charged before Sir G.
Phllippo, C.J. of Hongkong, on the criminal
side ot the court, with having libelled J. M. Price,
Surveyor-General of the colony of Hongkong, and
a member of the Executive and Legislative Coun-
cils of the said colony. The gist of the libel was
that, in Hongkong, Government contracts were
manipulated and arranged to suit the devices of
certain officials, “ meaning thereby, among others,
the said J. M. Price, to the great scandal, infamy,
ridicule, and disgrace of the said J. M. P., etc.” At
first FraZer-Smith said he would Justify, but sub-
sequently he elected to simply plead not guilty.
The case was then (Oct. 33) adjourned until the
next sessions, defendant’s recognisances being ex-
tended. On the 2ith October application was made
to the Supreme Court, on behalf of Surveyor-
General Price—who from this action we take to be
a very mean man indeed—for an attachment for
contempt of court against Fraser-Smith, for hav-
ing, on the twelfth October, permitted a letter to
appear in his newspaper commenting on the case,
it being sub juaice. Luckily for defendant,
Philippo—who, though a C.J., is yet a man of toler-
ably liberal ideas —declined to impose a term of
imprisonment upon him as urged by the vindictive
applicant, whose evident object was the wiping
out of a journalist honest enough to expose the
little games of irresponsible officials; and simply
called on the respondent to find security not to be
guilty of contempt for two months. In Hongkong
the C.J. strains a point to save a Journalist from
what at the worst was a venial Indiscretion. In
another colony --Humph!
Messrs. Farmer and Company’s New Gat
Warehouse.
In the present issue of The Bulletin we give an
illustration of the great new warehouse of Messrs.
Farmer and Company, situated at the corner of
Pitt and Market-streets, in this city. In no under-
taking of a similar character in Sydney have we
better evidence of the material prosperity of this
great free-trade metropoli . Ten or 15 years ago,
when Messrs Farmer and Co . pany undertook the
erectlo of their first warehouse—almost the first
practical step, it will be remembered, in the archi-
tectural renovation of Sydney—there were pre-
dictions that the condition and prospects qf trade
here did not warrant such an extensive under-
taking ; but the Arm had not been in occupation
of their new premises more than two or three years
when they discovered the need for yet more exten-
sive accommodation. As opportunities offered, the
premises were extended till after long delays and
negotiations the firm were able to connect their
Pitt-street house with George-street, forming
together one of the grandest business avenues
possessed by any single firm in the colonies. But
the main effort of the proprietary all through had
been to secure an extension of their premises, by
means of which they would absorb the Pitt-street
corner and at the same time include an extensive
front to Market-street. For very many years, it
will be recollected, the corner was the site of
Packer’s Hotel, an old stylo structure, and along
Market-street stood a range of very inferior build-
ings, used as shops for various purposes. Messrs.
Farmer and Company recognized the undoubted
present and prospective value of this grand
business site, and effected the purchase at what
might be considered by many a very high figure.
The news of the purchase and the announcement of
the intended new use of the site created consider-
able interest when published in the press, and
Farmer aod Co, came in for a well-deserved eulo-
gium for their go-ahead spirit of enterprise. But
great as were the expectations of the public In the
architectural line, they were not at all prepared to
see rise from the pavement a great warehouse
1 overtopping the loftiest edifices in Sydney, and
commanding from its summit a matchless pnao-
raraitftlew of the city audits picturesque harbour
and suburbs* The result of this enterprise has of
course been to trohance the value of property in
the immediate neighbourhood close upon 50 per
cent.; and an indication in this direction i» fur-
nished in the fact that the opposite corner has
been fixed upon as the site for Her Majesty's
Theatre—a Thespian structure which will ap-
proach, it is said, the best in the oid world. Turn-
ing aside from the actual consideration of
bricks and tflortar, the meaning to be gathered
from the erection, by Farmer and Co., of this
new great warehouse, is really one of enormous
development of the flim's trade. For several
years—until, in fact, the firm decided on a newr
plan—the old system of business was pursued—fW)
credit system, and corresponding charges to en-
sure against Joss. The fact, however, was recog-
nised, that at all times and ail seasons, whether
the money market is tight or not—there is an
enormous amount of ready cash floating among
all classes of the people of this colony, and tines
being so, it was resolved to introduce the cashi
system of business—allowing the great mass of the 1
public to reap the advantage in meatiy roductvk
figures. Tt is no secret hidden from anybody in
this community, that this grand stroke of busi-
ness won upon the great buying public of the
metropolis, wnile the superior class of trade was
still secured by the unvarying excellence of the
goods, now more extensively than ever im-
ported. The site in Market-street having, as al-
ready stated, been secured, plans were prepared*
by Mr- Albert Bond, one of our most successful)
Australian architects, and the work was com-
menced. The excavating work was carried out iu
a very extensive style, to afford not only addi-
tional space, but likewise provide an underground
water supply. The foundations were bo ed in the
solid rock, to a depth of 18 feet Jf inebts.
The contract was taken by Mr. W. H,
Jennings, and' under bis guidance the work has-
proceeded towards completion without the slight-
est hitch. Mr. Jennings has carried out this grewfc
undertaking in a style that reflects great credit o»
his judgment and management. Thcediflce is one
of seven storeys (including the basement), and in
every part there are evidences of great stability.
Particular care has been taken in the selection of
the bricks, nearly two millions being required, and
upwards of two thousand casks of cement havea
been absorbed in the work. The improved plant
of having clear floor space on each storey has-
been successfully adopted throughout, owing to-
the use of huge iron girders (43 in number, weigh-
ing about 100 tons), which were specially designed*
and manufactured for the purpose in England-
Mr. J. Macgregor Dunn cabled for these .iron
girders to one of the most eminent firms of iron
founders in England, and, by the expeditious
means of transit afforded by tlie P. and O. Co., they
were placed on the ground in a few weeks
after ordered. A thoroughly scientific plan has
also been adopted in tbe matter of light and ven-
tilation, and with regard to the lavatories, &c.,
and water in case of fire, all the most modern
designs have been adopted by the architec t. Then,
with regard to hoisting appliances, passenger-lifts,
&c., the warehouse will be found on an equal
footing with the best and most modern palatial
business houses of New York, Paris, or London.
In these important essentials Mr. Pope has availed
himself of the professional advice and assistance
of Mr. Norman Selfe, of this city, whose talents as
designer of our torpedo boats, and other engineer-
ing works, have won the most genuine recognition
from the British engineering press. By the aid of
the pas’senger-lifts, which operate on all tbe floors
of the great warehouse, visitors can reach every
floor of the establishment with the greatest easo
and facility, as if, in fact, the whole place?
formed a wide expanding acreage of floors.
The goods lifts will ail be of improved
pattern, and there will likewise be another me-
chanical novelty at work in the promises for the
removal of great rolls of oilcloth, Ac., as they are?
brought by the waggons or drays into the entrance
at the western end of the building. The basement
floor will be of the celebrated Val de Travers
asphalte, and no doubt considerable interest will
be taken to see it successfully laid, which will cer-
tainly be the case. At tbe end of the basement—
under the dray-way—will be situated the engine
which works the passenger and goods lifts In ail
parts of the premises. On the pediment will be
stored the enormous quantity of 10,000 gallons of
water for immediate use in case of lire. Then on
the very summit will be—a unique thing for Aus-
tralia—a grand promenade, between 130 and 140
feet from the basement; and here visitors will be
admitted as spectator# of the matchless panoramic
view which is the boast of this picturesque metro-
polis. One of the main leatures, of course, of the
new warehouses will bo the enormous uniutei-
rupted floor space, brilliantly lighted from great
windows extending from end to end of the build-
ing. Carpets and oilcloths, up to 130 feet and
over, can here be stretched for inspection—u
desideratum long wanted in this city,—and
similar advantages will be ensured for each
and every department of the firm’s business.
The spacious dimensions of the then business pre-
mises of Messrs. Farmer and Co., which are situated
iu Pltt-street, constitute architecturally one of
the greatest ornaments of the city of Sydney, and
in a business point of view, the largest establish-
ment of the kind in New South Wales, if not in
Australia. It is composed of, probably, the
greatest variety of building stones that are to bo
found in any structure, public or private,
that adorns the streets of Sydney. There is
granite, black and gray marble from near
Goulburn, white marble from Bathurst, blue-
stone from Melbourne, white stone from
Tasmania, and Sydney sandstone. The busi-
ness of Farmer and Company was established
in 1840 by Mr. Joseph Farmer, who retired
from it in 1849. It was then can led on till lt, r ,4
by Messrs. Price, Favenc and Gwynn, who were re-
ported to have amassed seventy-five thousand
pounds during these live years. It must be re-
marked that this covered the period of the gold
excitement in New South Wales and Victoria.
The business was then taken up by Messrs.
Farmer, Williams and Giles (Mr. (files, th.i
present senior partner),land carried on toJ1860, when
Mr. hichard Painter succeeded Messrs. Williams
and Giles, whose term of partnership expired, and
became partner with Mr. W. Farmer. No change
took place until 1865, when the present senior resi-
dent partner in Sydney, Mr. John Pope, was ad-
mitted, and the business carried on under the
stylo of Parmer, Painter, and Pone, until Mr.
Painter retired in 1869. At this time the last change
in the name of the firm appeared to have taken
place, when in deference to the wish of Mr. Joseph
Farmer, it was mutually agreed that the names of
all the members of the firm should be merged into
Farmer and Company, under which name ihe firm
are now universally known. In 1874, on the occa-
sion of Mr. W. Farmer’s return to England, M. Wil
liam Seaward was admitted to the firm, and has
since, in conjunction with Mr. Pope, managed
the Sydney business. Mr. William Farmer's
connection with Victoria House, the name which
has been given to the business premises of the
firm, has extended over a period of nearly thirty
years; e is now head of the firm of Farmer and
Company. His arrival in the colony dates from
1849, when the business of the firm was of a com-
paratively limited character. At that time, the
premises occupied a space of 34 feet by 75 feet;
small, indeed, when compared with the space
occupied by the present premises of the Arm,
Twenty hands were then employed in the various"
departments, and this was found a sufficient
number for the business as well as for tbe size
ot the premises. They have now accommodation
for 400 work people, independent of those who are
employed on the ground floor in disposing of goods •
that is to say, that altogether they have ample
accommodation at present for 550 hands. Tho
steady but rapid progress which dates from the
commencement of the business, Is entirely due to
the enterprising spirit of tho members of the firm
as well as strict and conscientious attention to
every want of their vast number of clients. This
when added to their general courtesy to ail who
visit their premises, combined with strict integrity
and zealous attention to business, is the true basis
j of their remarkable success.
MR. P. MacMAHON, CANDIDATE FOR FITZROY WARD.


An American lady has recently been
divorced for the fltth time. In answer to the re-
proaches of her pastor, she explained that all her
husbands had been aldermen. She was im-
mediately absolved.
In an unwise moment, one of the pro-
moters of the Martin Tupper fund expressed sur-
prise at the scanty profits which Mr.Tupper seems
to have made from his books, and Implied that he
had not been liberally treated by Messrs. Cassell
and Co. in the matter of an illustrated edition of
the “Proverbial Philosophy.” On hearing this
Cassells wrote to the Times to say that they were
the sufferers by a contract which, in a weak
moment, they were Induced to enter into. They
add that a large portion of a very limited edition
still remains unsold upon their shelves, and sug-
gest that if each of the supposed numerous ad-
mirers of Mr. Tupper’s works would only purchase
one copy of the edition tht y would be happy to hand
over all the profits resulting from such a course to
the testimonial fund, and to add thereto a hand-
some contribution. On this Mr. Tupper remarked
that he was led to believe by Cassell and Co. that
the artisan class would consume 30,000 copies of
his Proverbial Bunkum within a year. Rough on
the artisan class, eh ? Tupper agreed not to de-
mand any royalty until a sale of 13,000 copies
was reached; and his publishers “deeply regret,
for his sake as much as for their own, that then-
forecasts have been completely justified, and that
the sales have never yet reached the point when
any account had to bo rendered to him.” Poor old
bathetic Tartin Mupporl
Wells’ “Bough on Corns.”—Ask for Wells’
“Bough on Corns.” Quick relief, complete, per-
manent cure. Corns, warts, bunions. Moses
Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents.
BRIEF MENTION.
Fixity of Tenure.—Matrimony.
Selection before survey—A kiss in the
dark.
Pacific Mail Service: Rocking the cradle
at 2 a.m.
Improvement purchases—Bangs, bustles,
and belladonna.
Speaker Groom ought to be well able to
keep a bridle on the tongues of Queensland M.P.’s.
Sir James Martin does not revere “the
light of other dais," to wit, the late Lord Chief
Justice Cockburn.
The sudan defeat down Dar Fur way will
have to be carried to the profit and loss aceount of
the British Control.
“ A gentleman to see you, my lord,” said
the disguised gardener to the Earl of Raspbery.
“ What name ?’ Y enquired Lord R. “ Brown,” re-
plied the menial. “ Show him—down,” rejoined
his lordship, blandly.
When the Government boring party were
boring for water at Bourke, lately, they discovered
fossils at a depth of 122 feet. Bones of pre-historlc
M.L.C.’s, most probably. M.L C.’s of our day
fossilize first and are buried afterwards.
A recently-arrived Andalusian sculptor,
or something, recently called at this office and left
his card. As nobody is able to make out what in
thunder is on it, he is requested, the next time he
favours us with a visit, to leave his boot.
A man writing to the Herald, a short
time ago, says that the dust which causes the red
light in the sky at evening will by and bye form
itself Into another moon. We daresay; the old
moon ought to be pretty tired of the Echo bards
by this time.
The defaulting ratepayers list in a certain
municipality out West, includes the names of an
M P., alderman, ex-alderman, parson, prominent
officials, and some of the leading men of the dis-
trict. And yet these are the parties who can hold
forth for hours on the necessity for a Local Gov-
ernment Bill I
I could always smell a dummy when I
come near him.—Mr. Gerald Spring. —
Hero’s two facts so very rummy:—
Spring says he can smell a dummy ;
Dummy swears the other thing—
He can always smell a spring.
The first election of aldermen for Narra-
bri took place a few days ago. There were 25
candidates. And, by the way, there were 300 can-
didates for the position vacated by Mr. Marwood
lately. Which shows how much more desirable
it is to be a hangman in London than an alderman
at Narrabrl.
A home paper says that a wine-shop for
the exclusive sale of Australian wine has been
opened at Berlin. We can, and do, grow a deal of
good wine in Australia. But if the wine sold at
Berlin is like what people ordinarily get in Sydney
public-houses, something else will soon be opened
for its consumers. Graves.
The members of the White Ribbon Army
of Maitland, having been stopped from parading
the streets, have taken to throwing rotten eggs at
the Salvationists. The latter are very much an-
noyed. We are surprised at this. What is the use
of people professing to be zealous for religion if
they are not prepared to bear the yolk ?
When Tom O’Marawas going up to Tumut
with Dibbs and others, recently, to worry his con-
stituents' duff, ho was careful to put in the tele-
gram to the Progress Commtttee—“ You may also
expect a reporter from the 8.M. Herald.” On
receipt of this, the Secretary of the P.C. at once
went over and interviewed the miller and the
butcher.
PREPARATION.
“ The Earl of Rosemary’s arrived I”
Small “R.B.” heard the newsboys beller;
Then like a faulchion from its sheath
Flashed through the air—“ that umberella.”
We read that the London police are now
armed with whistles. So now, instead of springing
their rattles, they wet their whistles. We don’t see
anything new in this.
Ghradus ad Papiassum: Salvo jure —chaff
the jury. Licentia vat-um —a brewer’s license.
Pu tic cede malts—Don’t associate with seedy cads.
Suo jewdice— the Department of Justice. Auxi-
Uum ab AUto— “three star.” Caveat cmptnr—look.
after the returned empties.” Dram-atis personae—
the boys in a “shout.” Summumbonum- collaring
the lot. Tabula rasa —a barber a counter. JJulcc
do-Mumm —let’s do a bottle of “ chain.,” sweet.
The Porter-Rhodes diamond is now the
largest in the world. It weighs 130 carats—that is
43hj carats more than the Kohinoor. The Empress
of Austria and Mrs. Mackay, wife of the American
billionaire, are competing for its purchase. For
our own part, we don’t see anything so very won-
derful about the size of this diamond. We have
seen bookmakers wearing bigger. If Mrs. Mac.ay
could see Zulu Thompson standing in front of his
diorama, wearing jewels lire chemists’ lamps, she
wouldn’t thini she had such a catch in the Porter-
Rhodes pebble.
Captain Bedford Pim told the British As-
sociation, the other day, that the Navy of England
has now “reached that stage of maritime deca-
dence that we haven't a single fighting ship left
which could survive a sea battle. The Navy, in
short, is rotten from keel to truck.” If this be
really the case, it seems selfish conduct on our
parts to insist upon retaining that magnificent
war-ship, the Wolverene, which, in days of danger,
might yet be of service to the Mother Country.
The point is—how could she be got home? Wo
can’t think—unless she were taken home on a
cart.
Now whose hat was Orangeman Hicks
fitting on when he orated thus, the other day :—
“This institution protects itself by the sternest
interdicts against the admission of unworthy men,
and, therefore, it is no more responsible for the
impositions which, despite this provision, are
practised upon it, than is the church for the
presence within the sacred precincts of its mem-
bership of those whoso lives are an abortion and a
lie. there was a Judas among the twelve, and the
fact that there are some of his descendants among
us no more degrades the institution than that
apostle traitor debased the reputation of the
disciples, and sullied the character of the spotless
Jesus.” Surely it couldn’t be ——Humph!
The Newcastle Borough Council were sur-
firise i the other day by a visit from an amiable
unatic of the name of Perry, who has the hallu-
cination that the borough market property be-
longs to him. He demanded his rights in the
name of the King of Kings. The Council, pro-
bably thinking that the reference was not good
enough, sont him to the loca-up. And yet there
are lots of nice fat old gentlemen who labour
under a similar impression; the only labour, by
the way—except that of cheering up the man who
goes round with the collection-plate—which they
seem to perform. And these old gentlemen are
not in the lock-up. Which shows you what a
curious world this is.
The Mubbdmbttbkah Signal publishes a
fierce article on the advertising quack, It calls
him a “ vile wretch, unblushing charlatan, mur-
derous viper, spawn of iniquity,” and other
pleasant things. This is all very well ; but, when
we get down a bit further, the following sentences
occur :—“ Some of our readers may remember the
expos6 that Dr. L. L. Smith, of Melbourne, made of
the dirty practitioners in that city some few years
ago.” “ For exposing such murderous practises
Dr. Smith deserves far more credit than does the
Melbourne Herald sweep detective.” “Don’t
you feel well ? Young man, look into thy heart,
and write.” “ Dr.” L. L. Smith, who lives “ at the
late residence of the Governor.” Booh !
THE ELDER’S ECSTACY.
(Addressed to the Rev. C. Strong’s flock).
You’ll excuse us for feeling excited.
Once more, we are happy to say.
Our Church is serene and united.
For Strong has gone sailing away;
Oh! let us sing hymns altogether,
Then pray, with a fervour profound.
That the ship may encounter bad weather
And Strong, on the voyage, be drowned.
He was working the Church’s destruction
Most surely, by daring to preach
(How different is all our instruction!)
That Heaven was easy to reach;
Such doctrine’s, indeed, the quintessence
Of everything sinful and vain—
But, freed from his heretic presence.
You shall learn of damnation again.
“ An Original Jock.—On Saturday week a
race for a sweepstake between H. Aspery’s Sig-
nora, B. Brooker’s Dorchester, and T. Walsh’s
Mangarie, proved a most extraordinary event.
The latter started favourite, but fell going round
a turn, the fall putting the horse’s shoulder out
and breaking his rider’s leg just above the ankle.
The black boy who was riding Dorchester then all
but pulled his horse, giving as a reason that he
thought the race ought to be run over again.”—
Correspondent T. and C. Journal.
Crass nigger i What’s a human life,
Weighed ’gainst a big sweepstake?
Who cares, if, in the selfish strife,
Or heads or ankles break ?
Poor heathen! you, ’tis plain, as yet.
Know nought of Christian etiquette.
Mr. John Shanks Jenkins, town-councillor,
of Richmond (Vic.), believes that when he
stretches himself below the council table and taps
his capacious forehead, he taps his gable end of a
humpy in which all the wisdom of that little com-
munity is stored. He is solemnly convinced that
the interests of the neighbourhood will be best
served if he can get his fellow-councillors to see
that duty obliges them to sit silent while his hatch
is open. It is hard, however, to get people to do
their duty, although they see it, and harder still if
the people be the members of a civic corporation.
John—don’t forgot his Shanks—finds that. But he
has perseverance. To the cry of “ shut your
hatch,” he replies by dropping a junk of sense,
raw and tough, and smelling highly, perhaps, but
as he avers, splendidly nutritious if masticated
and digested. But the sight and smell of it are
enough for weak stomachs, and louder and louder
swell the cries of “shut your hatch I” But John
won’t shut. There he sits with the hatch open.
They name him, they drag film to the police court,
but all in vain. John still taps his gable and keeps
his hatch open.
It seems that when the Earl of Rosebery
visited the Vernon he went—like Mr. Snawley did
when he called onMr. Squeers—“to the rlghtshop
for piety.” There’s no mistake about that. AH
boys leaving the training-ship are in a state of
superior sinlessness that is charming to contem-
plate. A friend of ours chartered a Vernon-boy
once, and the youth came out to his house in a
condition of handkerchief and hymn-book not to
be described. He passed the first half-hour in
prayer, and then went eut in the garden to suck
eggs. He happened, however, to suck one with a
small hen in it, and was laid up for twenty-four
hours. When he got up he sang a hymn in a low
musical voice; then, spitting on his hands, he
took the kerosene-can and set about lighting the
fire. A doctor travelled that night fifteen miles to
see him, and while being treated he said he forgave
all his enemies and persecutors, and sank into a
sound slumber. Once up again, he quarrelled
with the boy next door, because he didn’t know so
much about the catechism as he did, and the discus-
sion waxing warm, he—emulating the example of
David—threw a pebble at the other youth with
such unerring aim that it broke the wash-house
window. Saturday coming round, being granted
leave of absence, he went off to play a cricket
match in a pair of the family’s boots; subse-
quently admitting on cross-examination, on his
return flushed with victory that he had “swapped”
them for ginger-beer and hard-bake. On the
following day, while the family were at church,
he disappeared in company with the soup-ladle,
and when last seen he was entertaining a select
party of young ladles and gentlemen with shandy-
gaff at a moonlight picnic. Our friend is now
looking out for a butler whose morals have been
neglected.
James M'Gill, Esq., J.P., is a gentleman
who was, up till now, if not unknown to fame, at
least unknown to us. But now we must confess
that we have read so much about him of late in
the Kiama Independent, that we are feverish to,
if not make his acquaintance, at least kiss the hem
of his garment. Mr. M‘G1U was recently the re-
cipient of an address, and a presentation—given in
recognition of 40 years’ services to the district.
He had, said Mr. Marks, the reader of the address,
“ a kind word and a smile for every boy and girl
he met;” though it was not explained which got
the most smiles—the boys or the girls. “ When he
first came to the colony he could scarcely speak
the English language; but he rode regularly from
Albion Park to the debating society at Jamberoo
and Kiama, and showed by his energy and pluck
that he aspired to be useful.” The effect of this
was that when the S. M. Herald subsequently
offered a prize for an essay on “ U mbrellas that have
strayed,” or something—" Mr. Gill ’’(this tickles us)
came very near carrying it off.” He had after-
wards lectured on land “ for two hours at a time.”
Notwithstanding this, Mr. Marks stated he had first
to present Mr. M‘Gill (J.P.) with a gold watch and
chain, and secondly, with a “ horse-power churn
and butter-box,” and thirdly, Chambers’ Bncyclo-
poedia and Entomological Dictionary. Mr. M’Qill
then rose and made a long speech, in reply—though
whether or not he spoke for two hours this trip
doesn’t appear. Anyhow, he was heartily cheered
on resuming his seat, and when he was seen at a
later period fluttering away in the gloaming, with
achurninthe cab on one side of him, and the books
on the other, the enthusiasm was of a very pro-
nounced characte . In honour of these festive
proceedings, the local bard has adapted Gilbert's
song to popular requirements. They call it “ The
Magnate and the Churn,” and it is sung, with
great effect, to the melting melody of “ Whoa
Emma!”
Constable Stewart is a humble man. When
Providence, in its solicitude for order and decency
in this Southern hemisphere, whispered Into Ste-
wart’s ear, on a night when there was no wind,
and a low full moon wandered listlessly about,
that he was pre-ordained from before the begin-
ning of time to wear the white pants and the
snowy helmet, and discharge all the functions of A
Melbourne policeman, the vision of the lofty voca-
tion made his tawny cheeks blush.’ He is as
obedient, however, as he is humble, and, putting
his blushes behind his fine capacious ears, he told
his vision to the Chief Commissioner, and the
Chief Commissioner and Providence Just Jumped
together. Stewart strode forth as a constable—a
terror to evildoers, a bulwark of protection to the
meek and Just, and a fair and square man ever/
way you took him. He was the round peg in the
round hole. But the Chief Commissioner, having
turned Mahomedan, or something of the sort,
issued a ukase making it penal for a policeman to
shave. Gradually Stewart’s jaws became like
a spinifex scrub; gradually his chin became
like a camel-hair door-mat. AU his beauty
became hidden away behind a rank, luxu-
rious, hirsute foliage. Hair to Samson was a
source of strength, hair to Stewart was a source
of weakness. In vain he expostulated, in vain he
wept, in vain he prayed. The Chief Commissioner,
the follower of Mahomet, was inexorable. Be-
hold, Constable Stewart came up before the City
Bench the other day, with all the enthusiasm of
his vocation run off, with a whole lot of the fur-
niture which he had been compelled to carry
about, in the palm of his hand. Half his whisker
was there, and his jaw and chin were draggled,
scarified, and bleeding. He had collared a couple
of larrikins, and the larrikins, with a keen insight
into the proper way to work, had attacked him
through the Chief Commissioner’s Mahomedan
“fad.” They had dragged it out by the roots,
and Stewart stood in the witness-box, a spectac e
of heroic sorrow. Lamartine said that the bes
thought, when worked through men, comes ou
in rags and blood; and here we behold a divine
vocation, breathed into Stewart’s ear by a kin J
Providence, on a night when there was no w n
and a low full moon wandered listlessly abou
ending, through a “faddlng” Chief Commissioner.
in a tajl man, with scarified jaw and dripping c
looking at the roof of a city police court wi -
wisp <»f flair in his palm !
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Posy.
Posy, we call her, our rosy
Sweet maiden with bare little feet,
Child-careless and butterfly-wild—
Posy, sweet child!
Rosy to s—pink in a posy,
Feet, flower-like, straying through sweet
Wild flowers, clear-eyed as a child,
Rosy feet wild!
Posy, our love-blossom rosy I—
Sweet saints, keep the ways of her feet
Child-pure, through this wide world and
wild;
Posy, sweet child!
Blighted Hopes.
WITH AN IMMENSE MORAL.
The smells are gently rising,
Gently rising to my nose;
And this fact there’s no disguising—
That the “ perfume of the rose ”
Is, at best, but a misnomer,
As compared with Melbourne drains,
When the strength of their aroma
Is enhanced by recent rains.
Filled with freshest fairy fragrance
All the summer breezes seem,
As I watch the little vagrants
Floating corks adown the stream.
People prate about sweet-briar,
And the scented clover plains—
But, what more can they desire
Than the perfumed Melbourne drains ?
In my memory will I treasure
All those sweetly subtle smells,
E’en when wandering, at my leisure,
’Mid a field of asphodels;
Or among the blooming heather.
Aye, as long as life remains,
I can ne’er forget the zephyr
Wafting perfume from the drains.
Martha Brown was old and ugly,
(Fair am I to see);
I was never sweet on Martha,
But she worshipped me—
Loved me as the bold brown sailor
Loves the briny sea.
Martha Brown had mints of money,
(Stony broke was I).
Bo, I told her of my passion—
How it ne’er could die.
(Flowery statements, such as that, are
Simply “all my eye.’’)
Martha Brown and I were married
On a summer’s day;
Brightly shone the sun that morning—
Nature’s face looked gay;
And I thought, “ dear Martha’s aged,
Soon she’ll fade away.”
Martha, now, is hale and hearty,
I am weak in health,
And derive but small advantage
From her boundless wealth;
This-I’m very grieved to state—is
Settled on herself.
That I’ll die before my Martha
Seemeth like enough;
Though my Martha’s very aged,
Yet she’s very tough;
She eats well, the while I’m taking
Nasty doctor’s stuff.
Ofttimes, when the sun is sinking
Far into the west,
Weary care will haunt my bosom—
(Most unwelcome guest);
Life, with such a one as Martha,
Loses all its zest.
And, I think, how love of money
Is all evil’s root—
How, with golden chains, I’m fastened
To a tough old brute;
Of that wretched match with Martha
Sorrow is the fruit.
When I sleep beneath the daisies—
When I seek that bourne
’ .Whence no one to earth returneth—
When, in short, I’m gone,
Ne’er a soul, not even Martha,
Will attempt to mourn.
The Melbourne Drains.
(AN ODE TO THEIR ODOURS.)
AT A SUNDAY SCHOOL PICNIC.
Rev. Gentleman : “ Rejoiced to see you among us, Miss Fitz-Smith. Thus you thrust
behind you the pomps and vanities of the world.”
It is apparent to the meanest understanding that Miss Fitz-Smith has thrust some of
the pomps and vanities behind her.


Dr. Rose, M.L.A., or rather M.P., as he
chooses to describe himself, is the victim of a dis-
i’y°® 81 . n g ailment. The symptoms became serious
r months ago, and an attack which he
hada bttle after, in the hall of the Y.M.C. Assocla-
nnnn/P • ln P 1 ® 86110 ® ° f about 150
people, indicated that his system was permeated
vv n0X10us Principle. Bince that time the
attack has recurred, sometimes within an interval
a but . a« a general thing, hebdomad-
xrio f rom tae Period of its first manifestation.
Nearly ©very Monday night, In Melbourne or some
of its suburbs, it hursts out. Begets into a large
IJo,. ’ a® large as he can find. As many people as
® lt on chairs and benches
round about. The doctor stands up alongside a jet
gas and unrolls an oblong manuscript. Then
begins. He is a man of more than
middle size, with some black whiskers, and dark-
ish looking eyes. He is about middle age, and he
utters himself in bits. For a full hour he goes on
uttering himself. It Is all about “Dyspepsia.”
Some people call it a lecture, but they are likely
friends, who don’t wish to break the hard truth te
him. One good thing about him is that he is no-
wise violent, and when the hour is up, and the
attack over, he lets himself be led away like a
lamb. We see he is to do it again next week.
The Rev. Mr. Vance does not look bellicose.
In the slaughter and havoc which went on in the
Victorian Presbyterian General Assembly, under
the moderatorsbip of Kev. J. Gardiner, one was
•ften attracted by the peaceful, beautiful, and be-
nign face of Mr. Vance. And bin language suited his
countenance, and his accent suited his language,
and his gestures had all the grace of tender era-
E basis. He would say, “ Ma friends, may th’ Holly
perrit d’reot oosl” and, as the words dropped
s veetly over his ripe underlip, you closed your
eyes, ana, dreaming of Paradise, waited for the
ASolian harp to begin. But another instance,
warning against judging by appearances, is pro-
vided by him. Below that benign face, within
those embracing arms, beneath those sweet
phrases and .their still sweeter accent, a volcanic
element runs through the veins of Vance. When
® l } e “ ent ta k e 8 into its head to be
“7?! then the benign face, and the sweet tones,
the whole outward semblance of the
S® a reced ®’ and y° u see the real old
crfo.f n*i, the / ath . e8fi P rari ee. “Whool” he
nf n?,VvL k , r wbat we wfl nt at the head
AmnnJwo ca t9 ollege is a g° od fl ffhting man I”
Among warriors. Vance Is a lamb; among peace-
ful men, Vance is a warrior.
. Echo considers that “the sun would
in nnlfit™ 1 M th wu a Y l8 ’ pountessess, &c., travelled
win™ What a lot of bread and butter the
. m H st have eaten before he was de-
bla ltern ’ anyhow. Then, when it was
r 'P te „ n ’ y° u ean wager he out it out ot a proof
and read it to them all at home, while eyes
nnuurUn i oy * at hl8 genius, and hearts beat the
S’™ * r an affection born of solid admira-
versatility. It, probably, never oo-
*ue gcod, sober, honest, people, that the
suggestion that the Countess travelling without her
uniform was just a little—hum—eh ? As for the
men, there would be a lot—had they put oh their
State habiliments—to “dazzleanything.” Putting
aside the feeble Windsor uniform, which, somehow,
continues to make your legs look a little thinner
than your sword, take, for instance, the State rig of
Gussy and Lieut. Nathan, when keeping the dear
old people awake at the theati e. They look like
firemen who are not well, and who have traded
helmets with the German Band. Those who have
seen Parkes and Sir Saul at levies, state tnat their
appearance at once suggests a barrel-organ with a
green baize cover and a cracked saucer: and the
uniform of. a marine and a postman is almost
identical. We should like to see the hon.
Alexander, though, with the rapier, oak-leaves,
and silk stockings. “Dazzle the sun,” IndeedI
Why the sun would stand still with amazement.
What shall we do with our boys, is the
English cry—with otr girls, the Australian. We
cannot exactly say what Sydney mothers should
do with their grown-up daughters, but we cap
whisper a few things li their ear they should not
do. They should not-let them go driving to
Betany with a young man in a buggy—buggies
after all, are but traps. They should not let them
travel alone In tramcars—especially at night,—as
the tram-conductors, who all wear fierce mous-
taches, for the most part are dukes in disguise, and
are in fact such terrible mashers that no impres-
sionable girl has a chance of escaping their bland-
ishments. The original masher must have been a
Sydney tramcar man. The way these noblemen
jerk the ticket out of your hand, or stand cynically
by when you happen to have mislaid it, as much
as to s>iy “ Yes; we’ve been there before: not this
time, thank you,” Is enough to win the affections of
any girl. Girls admire men in command, and are
not particular whether they command an ironclad
or a hod. No! Keep your daughters away from
trams, if you would not have them go off their
feed, grow melancholy and moping, and sit up at
night to see the cars go by, and wonder whether
some other girl has surrendered to the “tickets
please” of the fascinating conductor.
Thus “ Brother ” Hicks, boss of the
“L.O.L.”:—“ He enjoined the ladies to help for-
ward the cause of Orangelsm. From Infancy they
had the oversight bf their children. Let them
train their offspring up in the sentiments and
principles of the Protestant faith. He further
advised them not to meet their husbands with a
scowling brow it they should happen to return
home late from their lodge-rooms, for they were
engaged in a work which contemplated the good
of the race.”
No more, no more, with “scowling brow,”
The Orangeman is greeted now,
When he reels home at “ noon of night ”
Asking each lamp-post for “a light.”
That serpentine and dubious pace
Tells how be suffers for “ the race;”
Those “ rounds,” which he and others “ stood,”
All “ went down ” for “ his country's good!”
So, scowl no more, ye Orange dames,
When the “ole man ” is at his games;
Great Hicks hicks-plains with fair hicks-cuse
The old un ” is not “ on the loose.”
Whenever any public abuse threatens to
become unbearable, the Echo can always be relied
on to suggest a means of getting rid of the diffi-
culty. This time it is the telegraph boys who are
in trouble. These lads apt ear to play marbles,
peg-top«, smoke blaspheme—anything, in fact,
except deliver telegrams or attend Sunday-school
So the Echo would squelch them once for all, and
this is the suggestion it has :—“There are many
unfortunate persons who either through the loss
of their limbs or some other similar calamity are
onlv fitted for the post of messenge rs.” This has
been our contention all along. There is nothing
so fits a man for the post of telegraph-messenger
as the loss of one leg—except it he the loss of
both. If to this could be added the absence of
arms and eyes, congenital hydrocephalus and
well-defined spinal curvature, there Would
probably be no more complaints about the tardi-
ness of telegraph officials.
We have much pleasure in welcoming ye
another addition to the press of New South Wales.
This is the Premium, a gorgeous journal published
at Nowra. The Premier, though larger than a
tea-leaf, is not so large as a bill-stamp; but it is
very virtuous. It says sternly: “ We shall allow
no abuse to animate (sic) from our columns, but.
at the same time, we wish to remind you that we
will take no measure. ’ Probably the editor is
aweary of taking measures, and that is why, tired
by Alfred’s poetry, he has elected to go In for
journalism. Another item, dso, is suggestive of
a wish to assert the dignity of the press and of
loyalty to a suffering country: “How is it that
the toast of * The Press was not proposed at
Nowra cricketers' dinner, nor the National An-
them ?” No to propose the press was bad enough,
but not to toast the National Anthem- hang it I
The cheerful confidence which the proprietors
have in their ultimate success is evinced by the
publication of this glorious poetic burst: “ We’ve
editors, comps, and our own little spy, and with
all of them, we'll Hoot-Hog-or-Die1 Bool ’em.”
On the whole, we are disposed to think the entre-
preneurs of this brilliant literary venture wiil
take a measure sooner than they seem to antici-
pate, and, la additioc to “,®ool ’em,” heel 'em,
Mr. Morrison’s Adventures in New Guinea.
FROM A “BULLETIN” POINT OF VIEW.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal-" La Mascotte ”... p 8
Opera House— “ Diplomacy ” ib.
“The Mascotte” once again, with Maggie
Moore to the fore. This is a relief, for now Messrs.
W., M., and G.’s company can, lay claim to have em-
bodied in its ranks at least one artist. In the pre-
ceding revivals the management have relied upon
the brilliant ensemble pulling the thing through.
They have relied a little on the electric light, a
little bn the mise-en-scene, a little on orchestral
completeness; but they have railed a great deal on
legs. Mr. Musgrove is (we, of course, mean in a
Professional sense only) a great believer in legs—
symmetrical legs. Indeed, he may be said to pin
his faith on them in almost the same degree that
Mr. Pip’s noble patron did in “Martin Chuzzle-
wit.” Well, legs are are all very well in their way.
But legs for break fast, legs for dinner, and legs for
supper are apt to cloy on even the most sensual
(or sjy sensuous) palate. In the second edition
of the operas “Tambour Major,” “Les Cloches,”
and “ Olivette,” we have had lots of glare and
glitter, myriads of “ twinkling feet ” (good roomy
feet, too I), and heaps of figurantes’ ogles and
haUerines' smiles. We have been amused at the
masher, with his sixteen horse-power binocular
demonstratively criticising from stage-boxes (dis-
tance a few yards) the faces of poor girls, upon
which the pearl-cream was in shreds and the
“ colour ” in patches. It has entertained us to see
little clerks crawl up in the dress-circle after
having parted their last “two half-crowns,” and
familiarly smile upon—say Fragoletta Brown, or
Dolores Jo .es, or some other lyrical or Terpsi-
chorean star—on the strength of living next door
perchance, to the grim food and shake-down
emporium affected by those ladles. But what
has not enlivened us particularly has been to
see pretty persons put up in the parts of
principals, who have just exactly as much
to learn as they have to forget. For in-
stance, Miss Fanny Liddlard is a lady whose
personal attractions no one but a blind man
or another woman could question. But she
labours, at present, under the disabilities of only
being able to act a little, and only being able to
sing a very little. Therefore, when cast for such
a role as Olivette, while she personally elicited al
the public’s sweet and loving sympathy, it would
have, after the end of nearly every number in
which Miss Fanny assisted, have smilingly bom-
barded the management with boulders. And
much the same we might say, did we choose, of
the Stella of Miss Nellie Stewart. Miss Nellie is a
very nice little girl, with something of a nice
ittle voice, and a manner—which embodying in
It, as it does, plenty of sauce—is held to be pi-
quante. Wo grant the piquancy not ungrudgingly,
while we unhesitatingly admit the sauce. But
these accomplishments are scarcely sufficient to
entitle the possessor to be allowed to interpret
lyrical roles, which, by right, belong to vocally
capable and experienced performers. It is, then,
because the theatre-going people have become so
thoroughly tired of seeing small dramatic pegs in-
serted in large lyrical round holes that they gave»
on Saturday night, to Miss Maggie Moore the
phenomenally enthusiastic welcome which has
been abundantly recorded.
• * m
Maggie Moore is, in sooth, a great lark.
Her conception of the Mascotte is one which
throughout; and what music there is
within her range she sings so as to gain an encore
every time; and those numbers which are beyond
c 1 0 ° 1 P ass - she “fakes” In a manner which
completely takes in the pit, and to a great extent
perplexes the stalls. One of her greatest charms
consists in her by-play. And her art stands forth
the more prominently here from the fact that
although her every facial change is studied it
appears unstudied, and though each gesture has
been minutely rehearsed, It bears upon the sur-
face the freshness of spontaneity. Her dresses
are, it is said, works of art. VVc don’t know much
about this, but they are certainly singularly bold
as to colour and design. Maggie Moore's success
was greater than anyone could have anticipated—
except, perhaps, the management. For, to let our
readers into a secret, Miss Lizzie Stofel’s salary is
almost equal to that of even the most Illustrious
of our Supreme Court Judges.
• • •
Mr. Harwood as the Duke made pheno-
menal efforts to be funny; and if he didn’t seem
80 droll as he used to bo, it is probably because
his recent sickness has affected to some extent his
recollection of thejokes of long-buried burlesques.
He wisely didn’t try to sing w put contented him-
self with talking a lot about the Earl of Raspbery,
and the B ederal Convention, much of which found
a large amount of favour with the groundlings.
But all of his scenes are too long, and even his
famous business with the two half-crowns dragged
so that it had the effect of sending the Minister
tor Justice fast asleep, the hon. and learned
gentleman only awakening in time to behold the
abduction of the Mascotte at the end of the act.
But then perhaps the Minister wasn’t asieep at all.
Perhaps he means to be a Supreme Court Judge
one day. Legal dignitaries often blink and wink
in an owl-like fashion when they are very wide
awake, indeed. Something in the soup, perhaps.
• * *
Mr. Kelly, as Rocoo, has distinctly dete-
riorated, and for this reason. He was quaint
before, and consequently artistic; now he evi-
dently experiences a desire to bo funny, and re-
sorts to clowning that is not clever, and to gag
that is not gay. What used to be a really enjoy-
able performance is now one that would make the
angels weep—If they cared anything about it.
Perhaps, though, they care something about Mr.
W. H. Woodfleld, who is vocally successful as the
Prince, but whose efforts at humour savour of the
graveyard. Mr. Woodfleld issymmetrlcal and tune-
ful. Let that c >ntent him. Quarter day comes
round quite quickly enough, without his adding to
our melancholy.
♦ ♦ *
“ Pippo,” Verdi’s old part, is now under-
taken by Mr. Howard Vernon: and the effect upon
us, after seeing it, is that we have sharpened our
little chopper and loaded our little gun. Cherries
being in, thank heaven I it won’t cost much to
bury him. Miss Nellie Stewart made a dazzling
appearance, as Fiammetta, but her song in the
second ct (which she appeared to sing to the
prompter) suggested, amongst other things, to
our mind, “the whirr of the headsman grinding
Ids axe.” For an elucidation of this, we refer our
readers to “ The Tower of London,” that part of
the romance in which the weapon is being shar-
pened up by Mr. Mauger for the benefit of the
late A. Boleyn. Concerning this ill-fated Queen
let’s wedge in a slice of instruction) it will be
remembered history relates that, when questioned
at her trial, she refused to answer. Even when
they ax’d her, she made no reply. You are wel-
come to this, “ dear duke,”
• « •
The Saltarella - Sarsaparilla- Salts - and-
Senna Troupe was represented by Miss Sally and
Miss Dolly Forde, and these young ladies wore
costumes of black and gold, which were unutter-
ably picturesque. They executed, in due course,
, e oaltarelia dance, which Is apparently a near
relation to that classic step s© much favoured by
toe unprofessional votaries of Terpsichore of this
when they can inveigle an organ-man into
performing up their lane. Miss Maggie Stewart
made a pretty page, and at long range the other
pages looked equally engaging.
• •
The mounting of the opera is exception-
aily splendid, the dresses looking as fresh as paint,
and the supers as fresh as paint can make them.
„ j orchestra, under Harrison, was very great:
and Bass Hodge, as usual, wrestled with, and suc-
cessfully threw, the clarionet. The theatre-de-
sp te the electric light—was exceedingly hot: and
we might suggest, therefore, the propriety of
toning down the glare in the circle wnil© the cur-
tain is up. It wouldn’t be a bad line, either, to
nave the gas-globes washed now that they are not
m use, and to likewise give a bath to the long-
sufferlng chandelier. The run of “ The Mascotte ”
is, they say, limited to eleven nights. And when
they say a thing but you know the stern, deter-
mmed, unalterable natures of those fascinating
tellows forming the “great triumvirate!” If you
aon t, we do.
* ♦ * *
Mr. Hart, of the “Happy Hours,” is back
in Sydney. We met him at the Opera House the
other night, clothed in an abysmal smile, and
laughing the laugh—which, we may say, is pecu-
liarly Harty—that has electrified two hemispheres.
He is a very nice little gentleman is Mr. Hart, and*,
we understand, has a nice little bank account.
Theatrical speculation is to him an amusement—a
distraction, and no more. He doesn’t care for
tame or glory, or criticism, good or bad. We are
willing to wager that he would not read this para-
graph if he were paid for doing so. He has a fly-
farm, or something, in New Zealand. Any other
man who was in this position would be arrogant
and self-assertive. This is not the case with Mr.
Hart. We hope when we go to New Zealand, and
ask permission of him to camp in one of his shoes,
that he will not forget we said this of him.
♦ * * *
It is not known who is to be Mrs. Lang-
try’s leading man during her Australian tour, but
Fred Gebhart is to be her following man. He will
probably follow her everywhere.
* * * *
Mr. Wybert Reeve, at the Opera House,
has run on “ Diplomary” into the third week with
results which, though possibly brilliant from an
artistic point of view, have not been so
encouraging as his former essay with the
play. And the engagement of Colonel Ike
Austin (what a thundering lot of the Amerl-
cans who come here seemed to have been in
the army—even our cherished Kahlo, who.'wouldn’t
take the dewn off a butterfly, was Colonel of the
Saratoga Slashers 1) has made things, we are sorry
to say, rather worse. For his rifle has, to at least
some extent, scared away the ladles; only those
whose husbam.s’ lives are insured to a large
amount and who hold the policy locked up in
their work-boxes, caring to climb up with the
old man. Leaving Colonel Ike for a moment, we
might suggest to Mr. Reeve the notion of—since
we see ..entt’s *‘ Stolen Kisses” underlined —giving
us something new. The Lingards blew “ Stolen
Kisses” at us until we wished them —or
at least one of them (Horace)—dead, and
now, we are, it seems, to have the comedy
again. All right. But when are we to have “ The
Squire,” that play of Pinero’s, so cleverly copied
from “ Far from the Madding Crowd ? ” Soon, we
hope. We are aweary of these revivals. They
remind us so of hash; the spectral appearance of
which at our boarding establishment wo have so
frequently, so tearfully, and so poetically, to
deplore.
» • ♦
Col. Ike Austin, then, shoots cucumbers and
things off Mr. Cunard’s head. But let our readers
feel no alarm. There is not, in the performance,
the most trifling element of danger. All that
could possibly eventuate in the event of the
marksman aiming too low, would be the rebound
of the bullet off the saull of the Adonis-like
Litherlaud, and the discomfiture of the artist who
maltreats the drum. Col. Austin is, in a word,
Penimore Cooper’s Deerslayer without the
moccassins; his Pathfinder without the pro-
verbs. He is a thin man with an eagle
eye, and he never misses a shot unless on
purpose, and to show the audience that
Ounard hasn’t got a bit of horsehair tied to the
cucumber. We saw Cunard the other day, and we
asked him why he went in tor this risky kind of
business. He led us silently from where it was
threepence to where it wassixpence, and then, the
draught trouble having arrived, he said—“ Heath
has no terrors for me. For it is only after death
that I can hope to behold one more beautiful than
mysilf.” Colonel Ike is interesting. We should
like several people to go and see him. Several
people have already gone. What we want is
several more to go.
« « • •
Mr. A., L. Inglis is a dramatist. And he
tells us in his programme that he is the author of
“Life’s Trials,” “Sweet Dreams,” “Arden’s
Hope,” and “Amidst the Bombs; or, the Siege of
Paris.” We are bound to state—and the admission
is only another instance of the crass ignorance
which pervades us—that we have never either
seen or heard of any one of these great dramas ;
and, indeed, we question very much whether the
name of the dramatist, either as a playwright
simple or In his present capacity of actor-author,
nas ever attracted our notice before. In making
this admission, weare aware that we have forfeited
the respect of all true lovers of art and ardent
admirers of genius; but being poor, and being
told that truth is golden, induces us to make the
thrlce-humiliatmg statement. Mr. Inglis, how-
ever, not content with the riches which his former
works have showered, and the glory those
triumphs of dramatic art have shed on him,
has written yet another play, which he
has gently entitled “Crime.” This great pro-
auction has been running for some days at the
Academy of Music, and the author not only stage-
manages the piece, but likewise enacts in it the
part of Cecil Le ttoyal, who is pleasantly described
? a bill as being “true to the core. “Crime”
is an Australian drama,” with a French flavour.
Count de Valreas (represented with great effect)
being, perhaps, responsible for the Gallic whiff
which pervades the society scenes. Miss Alice
Johns is in it, and a lot more. It is very nice. We
n y sit it all out, because we were much
affected, at an early stage of the proceedings, by
the trials of the lovely Lilian and Marion .Ray-
mond s wrongs; and we didn’t wish our emotion
to be noticed.
* * * *
As we announced, the Helen Vivian Com-
pany p ayed “The Woman of the People” for Mr.
Aspinall s benefit, at the Gaiety, last Saturday.
We saw persons of both sexes there. Miss Helen
Yiv/an, considering that she had been starved so
long, looked uncommonly well in the second act:
so robust, in fact, that her sorrows were received
with some Incredulity by the audience. But there
are grovelling unbelievers everywhere. We be-
lieve that Mr. Aspinall (who played Le Barong de
realised a lot more than enough out
°*. b* 8 ben. to enable him to journey to Waverlev
without surreptitiously slaying the tramguard.
• * «
THE MYSTERY.
He was a low comedian,
Whose forehead bore the brunt
Of many a votive brick, flung by
Admirers, in the front.
And yet though he was dull, almost
As a vice-regal speech.
Those who were with him on the boards
When he would smile would screech.
What was the cause ? He had no wit.
No humour and no chaff:
His drink was rum—this was the cause
Of his infectious laugh."
* * * m
Miss Melville departed gracefully on
Friday night, and on Saturday night (writes our
Melbourne correspondent) the stage of the
rnncess s was occupied by the new company
brought together by Mr. Garner. That gentleman,
,i 8 travels round the world, had the wants ox
Melbourne play-goers before his eyes, and his
i.Ku a ? lbltlon . .' vas to satisfy those wants. He
text that something new was required, and there-
fore he laid hold of a dramatised version of
something which very strongly reminds us of a
Christmas tale in a London periodical. Further,
he brought the dramatist with him, and three
other celebrated persons to support him. We
have not read the original tale, and if it were not
more interesting than the drama, we’re glad.
• • •
Mr. George JLeitoti has a pure and homely
taste. Without any fear of a shook, you could
bring your uncle to see his drama. It is called
Coming Home, or Sithors to Grind.” Joe Stam-
mers is an orphan boy, and Tom Stammers is
another. They are brothers, and are as fond of
being together as if they had only one pipe
between them. They part, however, but both
cherish the hope of meeting hereafter. Joe
marries, but his wife dies, leaving him a daughter,
Milly, who, for a while, loses the power of her
legs, and has to be wheeled about. Joe is very
poor, and lives in a tumble-down hut, making
ends meet by mending umbrellas, and when at
home is his own “slavey.” Although Milly is
grown up, she has to stay in her basket-work
perambulator, as her logs are no good. Still the
little cottage is not all gloomy, for Joe cheers
himsfelf polishing up the pots and pans, and
dreams away about the return of Tom, for whom
he keeps a chair at the fire. And Milly too gets a
sweetht art. Ted Bluff is the village blacksmith,
and Ted likes Milly, and brings her beefsteak and
porter, and little birds, and lots of things.
» ♦ »
Now, Tom has gone and done it also, but
with a widow. He liked style, and the best match he
could get was Eglantine, whose husband, de-
scribed as a sporting lord, had disappeared sud-
denly and was believed to be in heaven. But thn,
wa s not Tom’s first time. To tell the truth, he Vad
done it before, but his first disappeared suddenly
also, leaviig him a daughter Eleanor. *5e sure
you accent the last syllable of this na>Se, or Mr.
Leitchwill take offence. Well, he g'Ves Eleanor
to the aristocratic Eglantine, puts plenty of
money in the matrimonial venture, and goes
away and doesn’t come back—pdt for a long time.
Eglantine isn’t a bit sorry, jg rather glad of an-
other run of widowhood, and, after a while,
begins to set her cap afresh. Young Lord Temple-
more is hanging around, ar.d the widow thinks she
has him.
• • »
But she hasn’t. It’s after Eleanor he’s
coming. Then Eglantine makes it hot for Eleanor.
Then Eleanor makes It hot for Eglantine. Then, as a
lawyer called Hackute finds that her uncle, Joe
stammers is in the hut, Eleanor sails away to par*
hl « humbl u e hospitality. But when Ted
Bluff sees Eleanor he slings Milly and goes for her.
ndw £, en Lord Tenaplemore puts in his claim, he
slings Eleanor and goes back to Milly. Eglantine.
B9 w ® v , e r. has caught another lord, and comes to
» e onQuire about papers. Just then. Lord
lempiemore has Eleanor, Ted Bluff has Milly, and
i 1 be °hair, when in comes the
J 9 8t ,£ J i T1 - Tom dismisses Eglantine with the
f®“ ark that when he married her the sporting
+V 8 ? not m heaven, but cavorting around,
and that, consequently, it is a case of “as you
round Egiantine retires and there is hugging all
* * ♦
In the history of silly drama, of unnatural
situations, of weak sentiment, of preposterous as*
sumptions, and of snatchy incidents, “Coming
Home, or Sithors to Grind ” deserves, in our
ffu* 11 .?!?’ t° take the first place. Mr. Leitch says
that ho played it 1000 times in London and the pro*
yinces. It is our opinion that, if there still lives
“t Austraha any real love of the legitimate drama,
he will not dare to play it a dozen times in Mel-
bourne and Sydney together.
• •
Mr. George Leitch, who played Joe, is an
actor of moderate power. He is a thin, wiry,
elderly man. His voice has some compass, and is
musical in tone, but is weak. His facial piay is
good. Mr. H. W. Bennett (Tom Stammers) doesn’t
® ao .^ r , U P £iU the end, and the tittle he has then to
do is indifferently done. He is not to be blamed, of
course, for the clumsiness of the denouement, but
his style and manner make the clumsiness more
is a bi # man, with little
sensibility and a severe manner. Mr. C. H.
(Ted Bluff) made a very good black-
smith. He is burly, hearty, joyous. But his
vagrant affections are ludicrous. Mr. H. R. J ewett
(Lord Templemore) is a young man who can be
made generally useful. He had nothing to do
but make love, but he showed no special capacity
even for doing that. Miss Amy Crawford (Eglan-
tine stammers) represented bon ton. She came
out in a pea-green satin trained dress, spangled
with gold, and trimmed with pompadour. She is
slightly over the middle height, with a round
plump face, and plenty of bust. Her articula*
tlon is good, and as far as her stupid part allowed
her she was an intelligible character. She, more
than the rest, was at a disadvantage in the play,
known 8a T° wer s and the others are well enough
♦ ♦ *
There is not much special going on in the
other thentres, as the great importation from Eng-
land has filled us up.
* * * *
Jim Allison has been going it in New York.
He is staying at the Fifth Avenue Hotel, and the
other day fell (metaphorically) across a MIRROR
reporter. James then said, amongst other things,
1 arrived in New York from Australia by way of
San Francisco only last night, and am already enter-
ing into important engagements .[III] Mr. Rlgnold
and myself carry on and manage the new theatre
called Her Majesty’s Theatre, which we have built
in Sydney, and the Theatre Royal, Adelaide, We
likewise have the lease of the Theatre Royal, Mel-
bourne. [Ill] Now, we wonder what talent Jim
will bring over. Is he going to prove the boon to
the N.Y. free-lunch proprietors by easing, by the
importation of certain “ wall-flowers,” the strain
on their pork-and-beans resources? We think
him too clever for that. Still, we ask him
to consider his suffering country; to remem-
ber how many nigger shows there are, and
what the poor printer, who tolls under the
blazing orb afar, has suffered. Let him
pause while there is yet time. The pensiveness of
the rustic boniface has assumed proportions which
border on the lugubrious, and it is the rule now in
the Cobar and Bpurke districts that when a clean-
shaven man, wit i an alaska window-pane and a
muntz-metal “super,” enters an hotel carrying
under his arm a banjo-case with a yellow placard,
to ask him in with effusion—and shortly after-
wards elevate his head upon a pike. We certainly
do want talent—but no counter-cheese talent.
Especially as Alfred is, we hear, enlarging his staff.
* * • *
At the Princess Theatre (Melb.), Emelie
Melville's benefit on the 16th was as crowded as a
free banquet. She wanted it, for the season has
been by no means a successful one. “LaPerichole”
was the piece, and bouquets as big as cauliflowers
covered the stage and disorganised the orchestra.
One as large as a coffee-stall was lowered from the
stage-box by means of a block and tackle. The
young Secretary of the Education Commission
hauled the rope, and steered this tiny offering to
her feet. It was quite unexpected I Charles
Harding, the opera-bouffe tenor, is said to be the
best heard in Melbourne for years. Farley was
good, and Forde promising. Emelie made a little
speech. Of Farley, she said, “ He is the truest
artist and the best gentleman with whom I’ve
ever been associated.” She then held out her
little hand to him with a “Putitthere, old fellow.”
For one of her girls—Pattie Brown—who has
h therto occupied a very humble position indeed-
she predicts a brilliant future.
* •» * *
Here’s a lark! Harry Emmett, Polk’s
stage-manager, is in great glory. “ As an instance
of the enterprise nowadays displayed by Austra-
lian journals,’ says the Auckland Star, “ it may
be mentioned that Harry Emmett, stage-manager
for the Polk Comedy Company, is also retained by
the Sydney Evening News and Town and Coun-
try Journal as special correspondent for New
Zealand.” Harry, it seems, is noting everything,
and has been out on the Stud farm there, in order
to write a special horse article. We look forward
to this Bucephaluslan screed—the outcome of jour-
nalistic enterprise—with much interest, and then
we might suggest that Harry follow it up with a
poem on “ Plum-duff,” or “ Thoughts upon leaving
my murk on a plate of soup.” Mr. Emmett really
possesses great ability, and when we state that he
wields with equal facility his pen and inn
and his knife and fork, wo feel that to
award him more journalistic jelly would be
superfluous. Whenever Harry is in the throes of
composition, he always rests the tip of his left
forefinger on his temple, wears a very low shirt-
collar, and looks frequently with an admiring
glance into a shaving-mirror which is always
fixed up in front of him. And whenever he has
written a little Immortal copy, he recites it a good
many times. We knew a man who lived in the
same house with Emmett once, and on the morn-
ing after the third sleepless night, he went down
to breakfast, and accosting the landlord, said:
“ I must complain about that sawmill working all
night.” “ There’s no sawmill,” said the landlord.
“ Then that sausage-machine.” “ We’ve got no
sausage-machine.” “Then you must have a thun-
dering big dog. Why, his growling has kept me
awake ever since I’ve been here.” At that time
Harry was composing a drama for Grattan Riggs.
* * * *
Guess where we are writing this! You
can’t. Well, we are writing it in a pub. The fiend
of drink, soon, we suppose, we shall be doing our
writing in a vat. If, however, you promise to
keep it quiet, we will tell you why we have chosen
the parlour of an inn as the place of all others
wherein to weave our inky cobwebs across the
paper. Well, the reason is that there is a siren
there, with a mesmeric smile, and cheeks like
chestnut-blossom. Also a generous hand, with
what our gifted (and redoubtable) friend, Mr.
Richmond Thatcher, calls, in his merry way, the
“gatta.” But though we have lavished our reck-
less threepences over the counter, and drunk to
her eyes when we were informed on good medical
authority that drinking meant sudden death to us,
we have never been able to touch her heart.
Therefore, as we presume, dear readers, you are
men and women of the world, we take it that
there is no necessity to apologise for the cheerless
manner in which we begin this notice. A crushed
spirit cannot be buoyant any more than a burst
balloon can be a pumpkin. And so on.
AN OLD STORY.
came from the tailor too long. He asked his wife to shorten them a couple of inches
lff h , o W0 V. v. be . t0 ,? bus ?* Then he asked his sister-in-law. She declared he? young mM
w her to.<*0such things. So he asked his mother and the cook, butthe cook vfass-o?
intf to the theatre, and his mother consequently had to see about supper. But it happened
Minted and took off two Inches, and his sister-in-law had a tiff wi“h her y??ng man and
+ an( l th< ? cook heard that a grocer’s wife had taken seats in tL samerow so
didn t go to the theatre for iear of social loss of caste, so that well next morning the farnilv
thought at first he had been converted to the scotch highlander sect. morning tne lamily


The Treasury, New South Wales,
27th November, 1883.
TO ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS. ““
CONSTRUCTION OF ELEVATED CABLE
TRAMWAY.
rflENDERS will be received at the Treasury
I until noon of WEDNESDAY, the 19th De-
cember for the construction of a CABLE TRAM-
WAY, at Spring Cove, Quarantine Station, North
Head, in accordance with plans and specifications,
and under general conditions, to be seen at the
Treasury, on and after the 7th proximo. The
route of the proposed tramway will be pointed
out by the Offlcer-in-charge of the Quarantine
Station.
Bach tender must be accompanied by a Treasury
receipt acknowledging the deposit of £200, to be
held at the Treasury as security for the duo per-
formance of the contract.
Tenders to be addressed to the Under-Secretary
for Finance and Trade, and endorsed “Tenders
for Tramway at Quarantine Station.”
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Walesi
27th November, 1883.
TO ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS.
TENDERS will be received at the Treasury
uniilnoonof FRIDAY, the 7th December,
from persons willing to contract for the supply
and erection of a Steam Boiler and Engine, at the
Quarantine Station, Spring Cove, North Head, in
accordance with plans and specifications, and
under general conditions to • be seen at the
Treasury.
The site for the proposed boiler and engine will
be pointed out by the Offlcer-in-charge of the
Quarantine Station
Each tender must be accompanied by a Treasury
receipt acknowledging the deposit of £50, to be
held at the Treasury as security for the due per-
formance of the contract.
Tenders to be addressed to the “ Under-Secretary
for Finance and Trade,’ and endorsed “Tender
for Supply and Erection of Steam Boiler and
Engine at Quarantine Station.”
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
27th November, 1883.
TO BUILDERS AND CONTRACTORS.
TENDERS will be received at the Treasury
until noon of FRIDAY, the 7th December,
from persons willing to contract for the erection
of TWO STORES at Spring Cove, Quarantine
Station, North Head, in accordance with plans and
specifications and under general conditions to be
seen at the Treasury.
The site of the proposed Stores will be pointed
out by the Offlcer-in-charge of the Quarantine
Station.
Each tender must be accompanied by a Treasury
receipt acknowledging the deposit of £50, to be
heU at the Treasury as security for the due per-
formance of the contract.
Tenders to be addressed to the Under-Secretary
for Finance and Trade, and endorsed “ Tender for
Two Stores at Quarantine Station.”
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
£10,000
To be distributed on the
Normanby Stakes,
To be run on New Year’s Day, 1884.
Capital, £10,000 In 10,000 Shares of £1 Each.
“THE MELBOURNE TURF CLUB”
Will hold another Mammoth Sweep on the above
Race.
IST* ALL PRIZES !! NO BLANKS !! !
„ Wii 1 be declared in the event of there being
£5,000, or more in the Sweep, when drawing takes
pla9e (Dec. 28th). One-third of the amount will be
divided amongst unsuccessful subscribers.
Should the whole amount be subscribed, a £3,00C
Book will be made on the New Year's Races
which, according to our New System, will realize
a profit from £3,000 to £5,000, the whole of which
will be divided amongst those who neither draw
a Horse nor a Prize in the Mammoth Sweep.
Horses and Prizes to be divided as follows oi
pro rata, if not fully subscribed
First Horse ..
Second „
Third „
Starters Divide
Non-starters „
£2000
1000
500
250
250
2 Prizes of £500 £10C
3 250 5C
5 „ 100 5t
10 „ 50 5(
30 ,, 25 5C
Total £7,(
A Representative of the Sportsman will atte
Drawing in the interests of Subscribers at a d
tance, who cannot be present.
Send P.O. Order, Notes, or Cheque, with e
change added and 3d. for reply and result. B
s ut posted to every Subscriber and advertised
Australasian and Town and Country Journo
m^??w enclose self-addressed envelope. Addrei
THOMAS BENTLEY, Sec., M.T.cl, Swansto
street, Melbourne.
N
ORMANBY STAKES, 188 4
LEVIATHAN “ADAMASTOR” COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £2,500, in 5000 SHARES of 10s. Eacl
190 PRIZES, £1225 for HORSES, and £1275 for
STARS, &c.
Plan of Astronomical Distribution:
Non-starters divide £2(
First Star .. .. 4(
Second do 2(
Third do.
First Horse (winner
of the N.S.) .. £500
econd Horse .. 250
'P ilrd Horse.. .. 125
Starters divide .. 1501 Fourth do. ...
Five stars of £20 each, £100; 12 stars of £10 eac
£120; 25 stars of £5 each, £125; 50 stars and towi
of £4 each, £200.
“ Adamastor ” begs most respectfully to infon
his numerous patrons that ho thanks them for tl
liberal support that he has received, and herewit
submits a programme similar to that of last yeai
Champion Meeting.
All parties are requested to forward drafts P (
order s, or cheques ; if cheques, exchange must t
added, and in all cases postage fees.
Registered letters only will be accepted.
Application, by letter only, addressed “ Adama
tor.” care of L. A. Pereira, 34 Bourke-street wes
Melbourne. P.S.—Results sent to every sfaarr
holder. Notice—Sydney agency has been closed
LECTORS OF FITZROY WARD.
Mr. THOMAS BIRKS is a candidate, and resoec-
fully solicits your Vote and interest
The Gaiety. Glitter. Firemen. Flashing
of pewter medals and galvanisod-iron epaulettes.
T-he flower of fire-brigade chivalry is here, and
wears, for the occasion, we suppose, its full com-
piement of eyes. This being a gala-night (you
w ifri n btice we are speaking in the present tense-
well, we do this so that we shall not fot-get what
we are Writing about), the members of the Fire
Brigade Band, which constituted the orchestra
appeared with all their features intact. Glue, w<
suppose. The man who played one instrumer
seemed to have left the lobe of one ear a
home, but we guess this was an oversight; and
anyhow, it didn’t matter, as even withou'
the _ lobe he had ears enough for even £
musical critic. And, speaking of the ears o
instrumental performers, it strikes us—lots o
things strike us frequently, but mostly bricks
(this, by the way)—that most musical performers
should be born without ears. Of course it woulc
would be still better if they were not born at all
but being born, and with ears, it is a cryptic mys
8 to us how they can hear themselves play
and live. However, this remark is only intendec
as also or furthermore. In any case, there was
not much fun, that we can remember, at the per
formance of the Mercantile Dramatic Society
But, then, where is there any fun ? It is a dreary
world. Gin, thank you. Yes—as we might say
wiping our lips as though we had done no wronj
—the performance of these ambitious amateurs
did not altogetherjplease us. There was Mr. Nunn
for instance, whose patronymic is a precise index
to his histrionic ability, and Mr. Benson, whosi
manner of acting marks him out as one eminently
At by nature to shine in obscurity, not to mention
Mr. Kainford, whose courtesy behind a bar is pro-
verbial. There, now, Is a sentence for you in the
style of Junius! And speaking of Junius, who
was Junius ? But, no matter. At the same time
it was both our pride and our pleasure to observe
that Miss Vincent acted the part of Aurora (which,
by the way again, the antateur Irvings who played
with her found a strange delight in pronouncing
Aurorer ’) in a fashion that was both piquant
and peculiar. Then there was Miss Sherlock,
whose graces of attitude and diction would have
done justice to any Duchess in any London
JoURNAr, story. Sihillant were her sighs; her
movements graceful with the grace that only
comes from an imaginary rejection of Lord Bo-
nald, after the poor old mother goes to
bed unconscious of the surreptitious gas. Yet
Miss Sherlock was dashing as you remark
there is very little news just now. Thank you.
Gin. (This observation, the eagle eyes of out-
readers will perceive, was addressed to a stranger )
But we are trifling. We are aware that you are
impatient to know how Mr. Abraham Isaacs
played the part of Mr. Gibson Green, and several
other things. If so, we are sorry we were not
there when Mr. Isaacs made the stage Scriptural
with his presence. But we have no hesitation in
referring you to the gentleman himself for an
account of the matter.
• • •
From information received, Mr, J, B.
Smith as Percy Pendragon, and Miss Lizzie
Llselte as Ethel Grainger, were what, from the
feebleness of our mother tongue, we have to halt
before calling superb. But Mr. R was our
informant—and—well, of course.
• • #
There was a fair house, any how, and, as
the performance was for a good purpose (which
we regret to say, we forget) we may wind up
gracefully by saying we regret the performance
was not as good as the purpose.
M'Lean, of Troubadour celebrity, who has
been in the back country for some time past, ad-
vertises in another column the programme of his
opera and pantomime company, who, en route to
Mudgee, show at Lithgow ®n 30th and 31st Decem-
ber.
Archibald Archer, Esq.
The Archers of Gracemere are a family whose
names are historical in Queensland, They were
among the first pastoral settlers in what was con-
sidered, five and twenty years ago, the extreme
Far Nqrth—the vicinity of Gladstone, where they
occupied a run. Thence, still heading pioneer
Squatting, they removed to the banks of the
Fitzroy River, settled down with their stock upon
a run to which they gave the name of Gracemere,
the head station being laid out on a promontory
on the margin of a beautiful and extensive “ mere, ’ ’
or lake. The town of Rockhampton sprang up,
principally in connection with the once famous
Canoona diggings, within some seven miles of the
Gracemere head station, but the establishment of
numerous hotels did not prevent Gracemere
homestead from continuing to be celebrated
throughout the Nerth for the hearty welcome
and generous hospitality there afforded to all
comers. Mr. Archibald Archer was not among
the first of the family 1c this settlement. His late
brother, William, was the head of the enterprize,
and it was not till 1863 that Archibald, a great
traveller, was attracted from South America, we
think, to throw in his lot with his brother, |in
Australia. Since that time, when he reached
Rockhampton from Sydney, in the A.S.N. Co.’s
little steamer, The Eagle—then commanded by
that smart seaman, Captain Chatfleld, who after-
wards perished in command ef the Cawarra,
when that steamer was overwhelmed at
the entrance to the Newcastle harbour—Mr.
Archer has been intimately associated with
Queensland. For some time he acted as Agent-
General in London for the colony, a post now held
by another member of the family. It is only
wiihin the last few years that Mr. Archer entered
personally into the Parliamentary arena, and his
high reputation, alike for ability and integrity,
obtained for him while yet quite a young member
of the Legislative Assembly the offer of the port-
folio of Finance, when Sir Thomas M‘llwraith
relinquished the Treasurership to fill the post of
Colonial Secretary, vacated by Sir Arthur Palmer,
on that gentleman’s acceptance of the Presidency
of the Legislative Council.
John Morgan, a member of the Salvation
Army, was killed by a fall of earth at the St.
Mungo mine, Eaglehawk (Yic.), last week. For an
hour before going to work he had been praying,
having had, it is said, a premonition of some
trouble that was about to befall. It befell. We
don’t say the moral of this story is, “ don’t pray.”
We merely wish to point out that like the differ-
ence between burning incense to Buddha and not
doing so, that between praying and not praying is
very often perfectly immaterial.
Anna Potts, M.D , has a deuce of a down
on tobacco. She assures her hearers that the use
of the weed tends to destruction both of body and
Soul. She a.serts with an essentially feminine
logic that the wretches who use fusees all grow
by slow degrees brainless as chimpanzees, meagre
as lizards, go mad and beat their wives, and plunge
(after shocking lives) razors and carving-knives
into their gizzards. Yet still, despite all the
jeremiads of “Dr. Mrs. Potts,” we cling to a
love for the soothing, balm-giving, nicotic herb.
This story is months old, still it is interest-
ing. When the people of Grafton heard that the
Government were travelling round their way
they erected a triumphal arch and a raised dais.
The Mayor and aldermen took possession of the
dais, where they received guests, while three
niggers, fully armed and painted, dangled their
lower extremities from the arch. According to
the local paper? they were in “full primitive
dress.” The full dress of a Grafton aboriginal it
is not our intention to describe. The centre man
had painted on his stomach, in white letters,
‘ Want-’em-railway.” The pigment used was
whitewash, and the artist (a prosperous publican)
had applied it with a mop. The king nigger had
a place on the dais among the aldermen, and
financing up at his trinity of slaves he spoke
hook ’ere, you Billy; you hold ’em spear
straight; don’t make fool; you see Mr. Go-
vernment cornin’ round ’em corner.” Billy took
ihe hint, and the Government (consisting of Alfred
of the Noose) turned the corner.
When We were a Clerk of Petty Sessions.
The Clerk of the Court at Wentwobth has been
ordered by the P.M. there (“ Love’s old dream!”)
“to give no Information” to the Wentworth Tele-
graph, because that paper said a local constable
“had been present at gambling, but had taken no
notice, and that he had also been present when a
young fellow was thrown into the river, and had
said 4 Yes, shove him in.’ ” We are not interested
in the constable, of course; but we wonder what
information the Clerk of the Court could give the
paper that it couldn’t obtain by being represented
in court by even the pouudkeeper or the plumber.
When we were bloated capitalists, and edited the
Jangoolono Jxmjams, on some occasions (chiefly
simultaneously with the arrival of a team), when
we were in doubt not only as to the month of the
year, but as to the name of the land we lived in,
we used frequently to apply to the clerk
for assistance; but we never got much in-
formation out of him. If he could find
it, he would produce a greasy copy-book,
with all the questions asked 44 by the clerk ” very
long, and everything else very short; and the
names of all the suitors spelt wrong. Our chief
reason for having a supreme contempt for clerks
of the Court is, we think, because we were once
one ourselves. It was a long time ago now, and
things in an adjoining land weren’t quite so
tiled as at present. We got our appointment
through the influence of the Governor of the
colony, some misguided persons (who will pro-
bably hate us all the rest of their lives) having
given us letters of introduction to His Excellency.
We remember going to Government House to
present them, and on our way up the path passed
the A.D.C., who was lying on the grass emoting
a timber-pipe. 44 Hullo!” he said; 44 what do
you want?” We explained. “Hang it,” he
grumbled, “ come to-morrow—Tuesday week-
next year.” But he got up in the end; and much
reassured us by the remark that “ old bumblefoot
was in a h of a bad humour.” We were
ushered into a room with a lot of guns and saddles,
and rather a rough-looking man in it, whom we
took to be the under-gardener. The Aide gave
him our letters, in which we believe we were
represented as being the promising son of several
Generals, and having a sister in the artillery. He
read (or pretended to read) the letters, and
then shook hands; after which friendly cere
mony we were led away, metaphorically, by the
ear, and regaled by the Aide-de-Camp with
sherry of an indifferent quality. After this,
our shadow was upon the Gubernatorial
residence 13 hours out of the twenty-four; and
we sent a written reminder that we were living,
four times a week. We grew so well known under
these circumstances, in the course of a month or
two, that we were quite on nodding terms with
the servants, and hardly a Government House dog
would bite us. At last, it came in a big blue en-
velope. We were appointed Clerk of Pettv Ses-
sions, Registrar, and goodness knows what besides;
and behold us outside the coach, starting for
Bullockville—a six days’ trip. Our arrival at this
bucolic Eden was the scene of great rejoicing, and
we enjoyed ourselves very much indeed ; but
were a little disconcerted on being told when we
awoke, at 4 p.m., the day after our advent, that we
had, on the previous night, given the resident
Magistrate a black eye. In a little while the Judge
and Bar arrived; the walk of the legal gentlemen,
on leaving the coach, being of a paralytic nature;
while His Honor nodded nis head, in response to
the salutations of the populace, in a manner
strangely suggestive of the waxworks. Next day
came the ordeal. The Court was about the size of
a toll-house and a half, and built of slabs so wide
apart, that from our little perch below the Judge,
we could not only see “ the boys ” playing euchre
in the pub. opposite, but read the pips on
the cards as well. We were in trouble al-
most immediately. The first case was that
of a Chinaman, who was charged with stealing a
horse and cart; the principal witness against him
being the European wife of another Chinaman
(who was familiarly known throughout the dis-
trict as the “ Long-handled Shovel ”), and the bar-
maid of a Chinese public-house, called “ Big
Sarah.” As the “bar” was pretty “fresh,” and
the prisoner (who certainly—we borrow from
Alfred—“did not seem to realise his position”)
made a running commentary in Chinese on the
evidence, intermixed with such society expres-
sions—presumably having reference to the J udge
—a .s —— logue,” “ he no dam good,” we began to
enjoy the proceedings from the commencement,
and may be said to have generally lead the
laughter In Court, and given the signal for the
applause. It was towards the close of a hilarious
day that His Honor distinguished us by any
special attention, when lie signified it as his
opinion (having detected us in a scream of
laughter) that ours was “ a most improper ap-
pointment.” The ensuing three days of the
bessions was a kind of legal harlequinade so
far as we were concerned, everything we at-
tempted being done wrong, and continual repri-
mands on the part of His Honor being the
result. In the end, we chartered a gentlemanly
new chum whose only qualification for the post
seemed to be that he was an habitual drunkard)
to relieve us the last day of some of our Court
duties, and left that temple of j'ustlce covered
with ignominy and disgrace. In three weeks' time
(our resignation, in the mean while, having been
peremptorily accepted by the Government) an
unfortunate with a fiat cnest and weak eyes was
sent up to relieve us. He was, it seemed, a scion
• of the poor Peerage, and more feeble, if possible
—so far as the discharge of the duties was con-
cerned —than ourselves. We formally received
him in our office, and handed him over everything
with a cheerfulness that bordered on avidity. All
the books were added up wrong, and as we had
never in our educational days been able to master
the “ rule of three,” our land and mining calcula-
tions were merely so many hecatombs or stagger-
ing figures culminating in impossible puzzles.
Friends and acquaintance of a jovial temperament
who had been wont to “look in,” accompanied by
bottles containing “refreshment” of an intoxi-
cating character, had expended their literary and
artistic talents on the “ deposition book” in such
a manner as to nearly obliterate every record ;
while there stood out in bold relief on every page
uncomplimentary allusions in verse and prose to
the local Bench, enriched with drawings of a
derisive description. However, there was lots of
cash in a big tin box (which it is a wonder no one
ever walked off with, considering that it was “ ac-
cessible to the general public”),arid the keys of that
and the drawers had been accidentally mislaid ;
so things were not so bad as they might have been.
We shall never forget—should we live as long as
Sir Alfred—the expression of our successor’s face
as we left him in possession of all this treasure,
and enthroned him upon the Chair (propped up by
a gin-case) of Authority. His look was one of
stony dumbness—of unutterable despair. The
following morning saw us outside a horse, prick-
ing it somewhat uneasily o’er the undulating
downs.
We are unable to inform our readers whe-
ther it is Dr. Simms’ facile, agreeable and didactic
Style of lecturing, or the interest aroused by the
subject of physiognomy, or the skill he exhibits
in describing character and diseases from faces,
or all these combined, that have attracted large
audiences for sixty evenings in this city. Such
are the facts, however. As it is announced that
this is his last course of lectures in this colony,
the people seem more anxious than ever to obtain
descriptions of health and character, and to attend
these valuable lectures.*
In acknowledging the receipt of the
Australasian Medical Directory and Hand-
book, from Mr. Ludwig Brack, medical publisher,
Sydney, we feel bound to remark, after a close
examination of its 194 carefully compiled pages,
that it is a work which no medical man, newspaper
office, or police court should be without. In audi-
tion to the general and official medical directory,
it deals well with a whole crowd of things directly
affecting the medical profession in Australasia,
with all the Acts, Ordinances, etc, in Fiji, New
Zealand, Queensland, South Australia. Tasmania,
Victoria, Western Australia, and N. S. Wales; lists
of coroners, particulars about medical and other
scientific societies, regulations of Colonial Univer-
sities, periodicals devoted to medical subjects,
etc. etc. etc. If, in his next issue, Mr. Bruck
would include, in a “ quack” column, directly
under a death’s head and cross-bones heading, the
names of all the scoundrels who are practising as
doctors without qualification, his Directory and
Handbook would be complete.
The special correspondent of the Daily
News was one of the few survivors of the Sudan
disaster. Possibly, like the Dutchman who mira-
culously escaped shipwreck, “ he was not in de
pote.” Had Forbes been with Hicks we are confi-
dent he would have died in the forefront of the
battle while vainly seeking an interview with the
False Prophet. The D. News scribe was far wiser
than the ex-dragoon; his instructions were, “ Do
novan,” and he didn’t.
"The difference between the views enter-
tained by New Zealand judges and their N.S.
Wales brothers, regarding the law of libel, was
illustrated by the Dunedin cause celebre of Dennis-
ton v. the Otago Daily Times and Witness. The
plaintiif, a barrister, claimed £600 for being rtpre-
se ted in the paper as “ actuated by strange tits,
tor which he was surely irresponsible in his ap-
pearance as solicitor in the lower courts. He could
not help snapping at the tt.M. or his fellow coun-
sel. His attacks were pure frensy, and just as a
mad dog snaps at whatever comes in its way, so
did Mr. Dcnniston. He was the culprit or victim
of a kind of intellectual rabies.” But what the
journal allowed one of its contributors to say of
Mr. Denniston is of slight interest in comparison
with Judge Williams’ views of what constitutes
libel. The legal luminaries of N.S. Wales should
have that opinion framed and hung in their bed-
rooms. Verdict for the defendant, with £88 costs.
MR. SYDNEY BURDEKIN-NOMINATEDiFORIMACQUARIE WARD.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general .1
RACING INDEX.
Readers will find the column regularly
headed with a list of fixtures to he attended to
within the month; followed by names and dates
of Race-meetings to be held in the more distant
future.
THE MONTH’S FIXTURES.
Liverpool J.C. Entry December 1.
Campbeiitown Handicaps elose December l.
Bega Entry Closes December 3.
Candelo Entry Decembers.
Temora General Entry December 4.
A. J.C. Summer Cup, and December Stakes,
first forfeit December 5.
Tattersall’s General Entry December 5.
Tattersall’s Cup, non-acceptances December 5.
Wallsend Entries - Decembers.
HiUston Weights. December 5.
Campbeiitown Weights December 6.
Tpnaora Races Decembers.
Campbeiitown General Entry December 10.
Bega Weights December 10.
Liverpool Weights December 11.
Liverpool General Entry December 11.
Wallsend Weights December 12.
Casino Handicaps close December 12.
Casino Weights December lo.
Hillston Acceptances iq
Wallsend non-accept December 19.
Casino Acceptances ■ December 23.
New England Handicaps close . December 23.
Hillston Races ni'
Bega Acceptances December 31.
8.T.C. Genera iEntry January S>, 1884.
Adelong Races January 1, 3.
New England Weights January 7.
New England Acceptances January 17.
Balonne Handicaps close ••.... February 18.
Balonne St. George Handicap Weights....March 13.
Balonne St. George Handicap Accept March 31,
Balonne Handicap Weights April 8.
FUTURE RACES.
Tamworth R.C. (Summer) December 4, 6.
Warialda J C December 12,13.
Camden and Campbeiitown J.C. Races.. .. Dec. 15.
imomnnl J C December 32.
Victoria Amateur T.C December 36.
Pleasant Creek (V.)..... December 26.
Clarence Tattersall’s J.C
Casino Races December 26.
Gunnedah December 26, 27.
Wallsend December 26,37.
Tattersall’s (Annual) January 1, 1884.
J - c
Wentworth.’.'.' J ap uar y
Candelo Races
Bega J.C. Races January 1£, 11.
New England Races Janury 25, 26.
Rvd nev T C J anuary 26.
Tasmanian R.C. (Summer) February 18,14,15.
Coonabarabran. ..;
Cooma Races February 6 , f-
Braidwood Races »•
V.R.C. Autumn M »roh \l *’ S’
Wanganui (N.Z.) J.C. Autumn March 6, 7.
Balonne (Q.) Races • April 8, 9.
Hawkesbury R.C. (Autumn) April 3. 5,
AQUATICS
Rush v. Triokett December
Wnnt Prize December «, 8.
Glebe R C. Regatta .Decembe. 8.
Deeble and Punch Prize • —December 15.
Manlv Rowing and Sailing Club Regatta. ...Deo. 15.
All Comers Regatta ■ ■ December
Newcastle Regatta January 1, 1884.
National Regatta January 26.
CRICKET.
Melbourne v, N.S.W. at Melbourne Dec. 26.
ATHLETICS.
Hay Athletic Club Sports D ™
Cobar.. 26
Highland Society’s Gathering .January 1
BICYCLING.
N.S.W. Cyclists’ Union Race Meeting Dec. 1.
Racing Considerations.
HERE are a few words on the subject of
.‘Touts and Tipsters,” a fraternity who have
been pushed rather prominently forward by
Mr. W. J. Hammersley, since the race for
the Melbourne Cup. I trust what I have to
say will not be considered mat-apropos, and
I also hope that I shall not appear to take a jaun-
diced view of Mr. Hammersley’s letter.
Therein it appears that the writer has an idea of
some special reasons why newspaper scribes who
do the “touting and tipping” should be better
able than other folk to pick winners, after watch-
fng the morning work of hundred or so of
horses fer three or four weeks: but I confess I
have never arrived at such a conclusion during all
the years I have looked at the game. Even if the
men who undertake the duties of newspaper tip-
pers had been born to the business, and under-
o-one long and special training for it, I fail
to discover why they should be able to see
into and through a horse’s preparation and fitness
better than the professional trainer, brought up
to his calling from boyhood, and who not only is,
to mv thinking, the only person who can properly
estimate bis own horses* chances, but should also
be better able than outsiders to guage the private
doings of other horses, by a comparison with those
of his own string. This seems a common-sense
view to take of the case; and yet we become
aware, after every great race, that the trainers
themselves are continually making_mistakes r not
onlv as to the probable chances of their animals
against those of other stables, but also between
some two or more horses prepared by theii own
hands under their own eyes. If the racing public
who draw on sporting papers for their informa-
tion would be satisfied with knowing that such a
horse was doing good work, that another looked
flt and very well, and a third had much im-
upon his previous “form,” they would be
better able than at present to compare the chances
of stables or individuals; but these same public,
wh op xnect to read themselves into winning “a big
require to be continually told of the time
done by different animals, and therefore. It comes
about that the newspaper “ tout’ gradually falls
into the line (erroneous, no doubt) of relying
solely on “ the watch” for the groundwork of his
tins Individually, I have found very little benefit
from what 1 call promiscuous touting, and would
mu?h prefer trusting to the knowledge that a
horee is Stand well, provided he be a tried per-
former! for no one has a greater aversion to the
watch than 1 have. But in case of a non-per-
former, he must be seen “ travelling” before any
one can form an opinion, either from his style or
hia sneed. as to his chance of beating some animal
he had to meet. It is only in such isolated cases
that there appears to me any appreciable advan-
tage to be gamed from touting for winners. Tout-
ing for losers is easy enough; but where s the use
of snowing that fifty out of seventy horses cannot
win, if the other twenty defy your efforts to find
W Mr. h Haramersley, if he d«es not say as much,
clearly doubts that all the touts, save one,
could have been exercising each his own
lodgment, when they picked Archie Instead of
kattim; but here, cpmeg in the watch
fallacy, which prevented any excellence being
attributed to the “dark” celt that showed
nothing sensational, while the other, who had
been previously well tried in public, did enough
to establish a belief that he still retained his last
year’s form. Thus I account for the almost uni-
versal favour in which Archie was held by the
newspaper writers who gave tips; and, as a matter
tf fact, the Derby was r in in such an unsatisfac-
tory manner as to have it still a moot point
whether the tipsters were not correct in their diag-
nosis. For myself, I have come to the conclusion
that, with different riding Archie would have run
a desperate race with Martini, even though it’s
quite on the cards that, in a hard finish, the Sjxvia
excellence in the New Zealand colt might have
beaten the high-going of Archie; but the latter
showed me quite enough in the Derby, as well as
in the Cup, to make me regret he wasn t allowed a
chance to justify the high opinion of the many
despised tipsters. Remembered it must be, more-
over, that Archie’s preparation was only for the
Derby—an all-sufficing reason, I fancy, why he
should not have been expected to show to much
advantage when pulled out for the Cup, on the
following Tuesday ; and judged by this supposi-
tious standard, his race for that big event
was absolutely marvellous. Martini-Henry
has proved himself such an out-and-out good one
as to quite upset any belief that the Derby was a
“ moral ” for Archie; but the whole army ot touts
and tipsters should not be condemned without
there having been any convincing proof that they
were wrong. Had their chosen one run his race
properly, he would most certainly have shown
that, so far as time could guile them, his friends
made no mistake; and I can’t see how a line was
to be drawn between the facile princeps ot last
season’s two-year-olds and a totally untried colt,
who had never been stripped in public. This, of
course, I am laying down because under the
present false position of the touts and tipsters
there was no way of arriving at the quality of the
colt who showed no “ time” to be judged by as the
others had done,
A well-known knight of the metallic honoured
newspaper tipsters by calling them “imbeciles,”
at which I had a good laugh, being as I was the
only one of the contingent to whom the remark
applied at i he time; and I merely mention the cir-
cumstance for the sake of adding a word or two in
in support of his hypothesis, to a certain ex-
tent. If the tipping scribes can have such a
compliment paid them, it is because by their
touting and writing they are week by week, and
day by day causing new horses to come into the
betting market, and so much extra business is
thrown into the hands of the professors, who thus
reap the benefit of the early-bird work performed
by the newspaper touts. I know full well that
newspaper proprietors, both in Sydney and Mel-
bourne, are obliged to provide for regular touting
and plenty of it, wherefore they have to employ
scribes for the purpose; and hence, no doubt, the
“ Professor” I speak of predicates imbecility of a
body of men who lay themselves out for weeks to
do laborious and disagreeable work for the bene-
fit of him and his brethren of the badge. I may,
possibly, be of opinion that, looking at the ques-
tion in this light, the “ complimentary penciller ”
went not a whit too far.
By way of illustrating the diffl culty of the touting
and tipping business, I will mention a case which
happened some dozen years ago—I think when
JavTin robbed the mighty Hamlet of the A.J.C.
Derby; and I do so, knowing that Mr. Hammersley
must remember it particularly. A certain well-
known turf scribe among our Southern neigh-
bours, who happened to be absent from Rand wick
on that occasion, wrote in his paper that had he
been at the trysting place he would certainly have
been able to spot the winner, who was allowed to
start at 10 to 1, while 5 to 1 was laid on Hamlet.
This created a regular upheavement in one Mel-
bourne office, and, strangely enough, the gentle-
man who then wrote what “ he would have done
is this time specially noticed by Mr. Hammersley
as having still gone for Archie, in spite of being
credited with much judgment. It is curious to
note that in the case of JavTin and Hamlet, as in
the present one, a solitary scribe picked the
winner- and that, in both eases alike, those who
did hit the right nail, not being of the elite, have
been considered more lucky than wise. I hardly
think any one would adopt professional touting
as a matter of choice: and he who works an array
of tipsters from his desk, With all advantages of
telephonetic appliances at call, can form no idea
of the difficulties which beset the “earlybird,”
who undertakes the “ rag-picking,” and practi-
cally experiences the pleasure as well as the profit
derivable from “sixty mornings’ touting in the
ditch.”
The Budget.
[BY NEW WARRIOR.]
With the Wagga races the Sprng meetings tor
this season may be said to have come to a conclu-
sion • for the Summer is upon us, and, besides the
Northern meetings of Tamworthand Warialda, we
have onlv the fixtures of Campbelltown and
Liverpool, on the 15th and 22nd of December,
before the horde of holiday events that are always
crowded into Boxing and New Year’s Days. In
the meantime, however, there are numberless
items of consequence to be attended to, in the way
of entries and forfeits, besides the publishing of
many handicaps: and in these particular lines,
horse owners and trainers will have a busy time
from now till the New Year.
When this is read, our Hartley friends will be in
full swing of their meeting on this Thursday and
Fridav ; when, also, in the far away South, racing
will be on at Narandera. Then the Campbelltown
handicaps are to close on Saturday (December 1),
which is also the day of the Liverpool J.C. general
entrv • Bega and Candelo have their general
entries on the 3rd, which will be Monday;
Temora events close on the 4th, and there s a
long list for the 5th, made up as followsFirst
in importance will be Tattersall’s general entry,
the club’s programme being an exceptionally good
one, as we took occasion to note pretty fully last
week: and on the same day non-acceptances must
be made for Tattersall’s Club Cup. Wallsend
entries and theHillston weights are both set down
for the 5th; and on the 6th we shall have the
Campbelltown weights, when racing will be on at
Temora. The general entry for Campbelltown is
fixed for the 10th; and this is far enough ahead to
travel on the present occasion.
The cable has within a few days brought news
of the death of the Count de Lagrange, who for
many years has been a prominent feature on the
turf of Europe, as owner of a large breeding stud
and a gigantic racing establishment. It is now
fully a quarter of a century since the deceased
nobleman commenced to identify himself with
the English course, being the first French sports-
man who went extensively into the business of
“Isthmian games,” and the only one who kept
two distinct training establishments in full swing
—one in England, and the other in France. Dur-
ing his racing career the Count owned a
large number of first-class horses; and as
he was thoroughly accomplished in “ the Racing
Game,” which he managed on the most ‘ correct
principles, his string acquired a reputation which
caused it to be held in fear as well as respect by
the cleverest of English Turf apostles. The years
1864 and ’65 brought Count de Lagrange to the
front for the first time in the English classic
races, as in the former he won the Oaks with
Fille del’Air, by Faugh-a-Ballagh; and next year
brought out the wonderful Gladiateur to perform
the much-coveted treble coup of Two Thousand,
Derby, and Leger, the colt being considered at
the time about the best England had ever seen;
and English breeders being proportionately scan-
dalised that the first winner of the big treble
should have been bred and reared in France.
The Spring meeting of the Murrumbidgee Turf
Club was brought to a conclusion on Friday last,
and, although the finishes in many of the races
were not close and exciting, the racing altogether
was good, and, despite the extreme heat and plen-
tiful supply of dust, was thoroughly enjoyed by
the large crowd of spectators who were present to
witness if The flies were not nearly so bad this
year at they have been formerly, but the beat and
dust were something to he remembered. There
was a very large crowd of visitors both from
Syddey and Melbourne, and the belles and matrons
of Wagga patronised the stand in goodly numbers,
and lent an additional charm to the surroundings.
The “going” was as hard as nails, which will ac-
count for the fast records made, and it won t sur-
prise me to hear that a few of the contestants
have suffered from the hard ground. Since the
previous meeting the committee have made some
noticeable alterations and additions to the course
and surroundings, the most noticeable —at any
rate, it is so to the members of the Press—being
the removal of the old Press stand, and a substi-
tute given at the right end of the grandstand, a
position that commands a splendid view ot the
running. Meetings on the banks of the Murrum-
bidgee have been loo ed on of late years as well
worth the trouble and expense of attending by
backers of horses: as the small handicaps
are generally “spotted” by the “talent,” and
very few surprises have turned up during
the last three or four years, the public
fancy generally scoring a win. This year
was no exception to the rule, and the “books”
who journeyed to Wagga with the hope of making
a “recovery ” over the late disastrous Flemington
carnival were astray in their judgment, and, to a
man, lost money. Out of fifteen races run for, no
less than nine first favourites won, the first and
second favourites ran a dead heat in the Maiden
Plate, and both Soldier Boy and Brown and R se,
though not occupying the most prominent posi-
tion in the market when they landed their respec-
tive races, were supported to win a lot of money;
and, altogether, the fielders had a very rough deal.
The stables presided over by Messrs. Smart and
Forrester scored three wins outright, including
the handsome Cup, and divided the Maiden Plate
through The Bohemian, with Hawkesbury;
Liberty and Soldier Boy won two races for Mr.
Albert Cornwell: Hawkesbury and Idalia a like
number for Mr. H. J. Bowler and Mr. M. Whitby,
other owners being content with one each. The
success of the Brown and Rose stable has re-
couped its representatives, I hope, somewhat for
their very disastrous trip to Melbourne, and no
one will begrudge them the “ throw in.” The
Drummer has proved himself a worthy descendant
of a very worthy sire by humping 9st. 3ft. to
victory in 3.3816: and, as his party planked down
their coin wltn real good will, must have landed
a good stake. Eva and Gem were not wanting for
supporters in the piice de resistance of the meet-
ing, nor was Yately; but the last-named two were
never dangerous, and Eva ran just well enough
to score an unenviable situation for her unlucky
owner. Cunnamulla took up a rearmost position
in the early part of the race, and was content to
occupy it. Mr. C. Roberts’s ill-luck stuck to him
all through the meeting, Eva running two seconds
and two thirds, while Dundreary could only get
close enough in the Hurdles to Idalia to expose
h:s hand. Stockdale kept up his reputation as one
of the most brilliant horses ever seen up to a mile
and a quarter, by winning the Town Plate with
9st. 61b. in the saddle; and Idalia proved her
Hurdle win anything but a fluke by running away
with the Steeplechase. Maribyrnong adds further
to his success as a sire, his progeny winning five
races, Gemma di Vergy and Kelpie have two each,
while The Friar, The Drummer, Wilberforce,
Countryman, Somnus, and Yattendon are each
credited with a winning bracket by their repre-
sentatives.
So bad have become the settlements of wagers
over the last few race meetings, and so glaring
are the many instances where large and important
“backers” make themselves scarce on settling
day, that the “books” are becoming “shy” in
their dealings. It was only a few days ago, a very
prominent citizen attended Tattersall’s. and
wanted to back a horse to win a certain race, but
the metalllcians, who nadn’t forgotten that the
would-be backer was “long-winded ” in his settle-
ments, actually refused to bet unless the money
was staked. After some wordy warfare, this was
done. No blame can be attached to bookmakers
who refuse to book wagers to customers concern-
ing whom there is the slightest uncertainty, and
the above-mentioned instance will probably warn
other people from falling into a similar exposure.
The Australasian says that although Mr.
Weekes lost some 00 horses on his late trip to
India, Van Tromp was the only thoroughbred
amongst them. The same authority tells that
Mistaken’s new owner refused £1200 for the son
of Dante.
Nicholas has joined Tothill’s string, and is at
present in Melbourne with Sardius, Bis Bis, and
Helene, who will probably remain there until
after the New Year’s Day meeting of the V.R.C.
It is said that Navigator will be trained for the
Champion Race at Terrara, but a good authority
informs me that this son of Robinson Crusoe will
not stand a severe preparation, and his not sport-
ing silk at either the A.J.C. or V.R.C. meetings
certainly warrants one in entertaining the opinion
that he is not sound. If it were possible to get
him well to the post there would be no end of ex-
citement over the meeting between him, Commo-
tion and Martini-Henry. *
The fast time made at the late Wagga meeting,
notwithstanding that the grass in many places
was knee-deep is rather noteworthy. Out of four
“ three-quarter ” races, including a selling race,
three were run in 1.16, and won easily ; Liberty
carried 8st. 7ft., and cantered home over five fur-
longs in 1.616; Coolabah’s mile, with 7st. 10ft., was
got over in 1.43i ; and these added to the perform-
ances of The Drummer and Stockdale, assist Wagga
to keep up its reputation as the fastest of Aus-
tralian courses.
The leviathan bookmaker, Mr. Joe Thompson,
talks of visiting England in the early part of next
year, and after many years of ups and downs,
with a run of good fortune to finish with, the
veteran has well earned a rest.
Royal Irishman, by Irish King from Vivandiere,
has been sold in Victoria to Mr. 0. L. M‘Donald,
for 350 guineas; and Prince Patrick, by Irish
King, from Pat5, found a new owner in H. Tothlll,
at 110 guineas.
It was reported a few days ago that Sardius, who
ran second to Martini-Henry in the V.R.C. Derby,
had been sold to go to New Zealand, but there s
no truth in it, although the colt was actually
offered.
Pigott, the injured jockey, is now out of danger,
I am pleased to say, and can get about again.
Ike, a cast-off of the Terrara stable, has been
placed in Joe Morrison’s hands: and The Broker
and Dirk Hatteraick will receive their polish from
the same trainer, until the Autumn meeting
comes round.
The injury Despot received In the Melbourne
Cup is not so serious as was at first supposed. He
arrived overland with the remainder of the Hon.
James White’s string, and they look none the
worse for their campaign. Mr. Fennelly has
hopes that Despot will again sport silk ere long.
I’ve just heard with great pleasure that Mr.
Robert Watt, of Newcastle, is doing as well as
possible in the Melbourne Hospital, where, as our
readers know, he is suffering from a fractured
thigh, sustained on the evening of the Melbourne
Cup.
ENTRIES AND WEIGHTS FOR HARTLEY
RACES.
Maiden Plate: Kathleen, Flamborough, Her-
ring, Ruby, Truganinl, San Jose, Caloola.
Hartley Handicap, 2 miles: Woolstone 9,7,
Major 9.0, Royal Blend 8.7, Flamborough 7.7, Malta
7.2, Kangaroobie 7.0, Ruby 6.7, Wombein 6.3, Ca-
10Members’ miles: Major98, Yelox
8.4, Malta 7.9, Kangaroobie 7.7, Queensborough
7.4, Ruby 6.10, Caloola 6.7.
ENTRIES FOR TEMORA RACES.
Town Plate: CJncle Ned, Prudence, Mystery,
Carissima, Lucifer, Wild Gets, Coolabab, Mope,
Alice Hawthorne, Rival, Veno, Tantaliser, The
Spaniard, Darkie, Pelham, Friendship, Green and
Gold, Messenger, Fille de 1’Air.
Jockey Ceitb Handicap: Victory, Prudence,
Mystery, Carissima, Wild Oats, Coolabah, Hope,
Alice Hawthorne, Coquette, Veno, Tantaliser,
The Spaniard, Darkie, Pelham, Friendship, Green
and Gold, Messenger. Fille de I’Air.
Hurdles ; Blackthorn, Coquette. Tipperary
Boy, The Spaniard, Juggler, Wrangler, Fille de
1’Air.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Slade will never make a successful pugil-
ist, forth® maouri fights the maourl don’t want to.
By cable we learn that Hanlan now states
that he would prefer not to row any matches in
Australia, unless in defence of the championship
of the world now held by him.
Up to the present no bicyclist has come
forward to cover Rolfe’s deposit for a match, at
any distance up to 1000 miles, for a substantial
stake. Rolfe states he is now going to challenge
the world I
A N.Z. weekly says: Mr. White, of the
Bank Hotel, Wellington, has agreed to give £100
to be competed for between Edwards and Scott,
the time to be 48 hours, and the contest to take
place within this month. No reply has as yet been
received from either walker.
Young Teemer, the coming American
sculler, being asked if he would make a match to
row Hanlan this year, answered negatively, but
said that next year he would row the champion or
anyone else for as much money as they liked. We
should not be surprised if Teemer is the man des-
tined to lower the Canadian’s colours.
An extraordinary bowling feat was per-
formed by T. Shearing last Saturday week, when
playing for Carcoar against Blayney. On a good
matting’ wicket, entirely in favour of the batsmen,
he took five wickets In five consecutive balls in
one over, and afterwards three more wickets in
three successive balls, two of them being obtained
with the two last balls of an over, and the third
wicket with the first ball of his next over.
It is announced that the English Jockey
Club will adopt the Australian system of licensing
bookmakers. ’Tis high time that autocratic body
did a little something towards protecting the poor
English public from the “ welshing ” which is so
flagrantly rife at race meetings all over the coun-
try. The modern English welsher thinks nothing
of striking a match and threatening to set fire to
the unfortunate “ mug ” who has backed a winner
and ventures to ask for his money.
Immediately after his victory over Black-
burn, “Professor” Miller was out with a challenge
to wrestle any two men in Australia, for £100
aside, in the style known as the Graeco-Roman
and Border. Blackburn and Thomas have ac-
cepted, and the match is to come off next Satur-
day. Thomas is stated to be a first-class wrestler,
and If any line can be taken from Miller’s recent
bout with Blackburn, he ought to have all his
work cut out with the pair, who are to meet him
in alternate falls.
William Elliott, the erstwhile champion
sculler of England, who left England in very bad
odour, seems to have been winning a race or two
lately in America, and is now anxious to get on
another match in the old country. Elliott is a
man of enormous bodily strength, but his short
limbs and ungainly style will never enable him to
hold his own against a first-class sculler, as was
amply proved when Hanlan defeated him “in a
walk” for the championship. It was Elliott’s col-
lapse, following after Trickett’s victory over Joe
sadler, which convinced the English public,
finally, of the low level to which their professional
o irsmen had sunk.
The Americans have always been able to
show better records at sprinting than the English.
English authorities are unkind enough to put the
fact down to the watch, and not to the runner.
The most recent hard nuts for cracking are two
performances done at the Manhattan A.C. sports
on September 15. On that occasion I*. E. Myers ran
about 122 yards in and A. Waldron ran
yards in 12sec. The running of Waldron
would be quite fast enough to place him at the
head of English sprinters; and yet he received
yards start of Myers, who failed badly when
opposed to Cowie in 1880, when Cowie was not so
fast as he now is. These things are very difficult
of explanation.
With regard to the Trickett-Rush race on
Saturday next, the former is sculling in something
like his old form; but he looks very drawn about
the face, and, although a comparatively young
man, we are under the Impression he has shot his
bolt as a sculler of the first water. The only
recipe we can suggest Ned to suffer a recovery is
a “spell” of a year or two at his old game, the
quarry, but we don’t suppose the ex-champion of
the world can see it in the same light. As for
Rush, the fact of his son winning a race the other
day reminds us that he is getting old, and it is not
likely he has improved since his last appearance
on the River. But if he can hold his man for a
mile, he ought to win the race, as Trickett has not
demonstrated in any of his recent matches that
his bottom is any of the best.
A certain sporting character, who has
been doing the provinces—and the yokels—in
Queensland, we think worthy of a par. Our
young friend recently paid Bargowlahmine a
visit, and, as usual, upon his departure left
his mark behind him. While.in the township he
raffled a horse, for which he sold 210 tickets at 5s
each ; but the ticket-holders were sold also, as
they were informed one morning by the raffler
that the affair had come off the previous night, in
the presence of a noted spieler, who, by a strange
coincidence, had won the horse, which he had
sold back to him. And the rafflees looked savage
as the raffler departed on the raffled horse, bound
for the coast, where he in due course opened
a book on the local races, collected the sugar, and
gaily departed for pastures new, leaving behind
him a host of enquiring friends. We are afraid
this gay deceiver will come to a bad end
At the Springfield (U.S.) Bicycle Tourna-
ment. the 20-mile professional race for the Ameri-
can championship was won by H. W. Higham, of
Washington, in Ihr. 6min. 30sec., beating King and
James, of England, and Prince, ef Boston. The
35-mile race for the amateur championship of the
United States, was won by A. H. Robinson, of
West Kensington (Eng) in Ih. 23mln. 12 l-5sec. In
this spin the amateur record for America was
beaten from six miles upwards. H. D. Corey, of
Boston, also lowered the amateur record from
three miles upwards as follows : 3 miles, 9.23 3-5 :
4 miles, 12.39 3-5 ; 5 miles, 15.48 ; 6 miles, 18.58 3-5 ;
7 miles, 22.13 ; 8 miles, 25.24 ; 9 miles, 28.37»'l-5 ; 10
miles, 31.39 2-5. These figures are now the best on
record for the distances named in the United
States.
Taking into consideration the many years
the light skiff has been in vogue in Port Jackson,
it seems strange that some local builder did not
hit upon the idea carried out by Messenger in the
boat rowed by him at the Balmain Regatta. The
craft in question has a bottom the fac-3imile of a
wager boat, and does not commence to flange out
till well clear of the water line, which, of course,
gives her a great pull over the style of light skiff
hitherto in use in the harbour, more especially in
handicap races, where weight has to be carried.
Reynolds, a competitor at the Balmain Regatta,
protested against the boat on the ground that she
was under dimensions, but upon the committee
passing the rule over her, she was found to mea-
sure as much as any of the other boats in the race,
the only difference being that she is not string-
teat ; and, as the test was not stipulated, the
Britisher very properly received the benefit of his
ingenuity. The old class of light skiff could not
possibly compete, with any chance of success,
against Messenger’s latest; so we shall, no doubt,
have other builders following in his wake. But to
Messenger must be given the credit of starting an
entirely new class of racing boat in the Harbour*


TATTERSALL’S club
Registered under A J.C. Rules.
Annual Race Meeting,
RANDWICK RACE COURSE,
NEW YEAR’S DAY, 1884.
THE HURDLE RACE.
A handicap sweepstakes of 3 so vs. each for starters,
with 100 so vs. added ; second horse 15 so vs.
from the prize. Distance 3 miles. Weights to
be declared on 37th December.
TATTERSALL’S FOAL STAKES
Of 7 sovs. each for starters, with 150 sovs, added
-Z for then two-year-olds ; second horse 30 sovs.
0 from the prize. Plate of 50 sovs to be given to
the breeder of the winner. Colts, 8st. 71b.;
fillies and geldings, 8st. 4lb. Distance, 5 fur-
longs. Entries closed.
TATTERSALL’S CLUB CUP
Of 500 sovs., and a sweepstakes of 10 sovs. each ;
half forfeit, or no liability if declared by 4p,m.
on Wednesday, 5th December, together with
a Cup, value 100 sovs., presented by Mr. M.
Deery; second horse to receive 50 sovs., and
third horse 30 sovs. from the prize. Distance,
3 miles. A winner of any handicap race after
the declaration of the weights of the value of
ZZI100 sovs. to 3arry 31b. extra ; of the value of
300 sovs., 51b. extra: of the value of 500
” sovs., 71b extra, non-accumulative. Weights
to be declared on or before Monday, 36th
S. November. Entries closed.
THE SELLING RACE
Of 300 sovs.; the winner to be sold by auction for
100 sovs.; weight for age. 71b. allowed on
each reduction of £35 on selling price down to
nil. Distance, 1 mile and a furlong.
THE TWO-YEAR-OLD SELLING RACE
Of 150 sovs., with a sweepstakes of 3 sovs. each
for starters added ; second horse, 30 sovs. from
the prize Weights—colts, 8st. 31b.; fillies and
geldings, 8st. The winner to be sold by auc-
tion for £150 : 101b- allowed on each reduction
of £50 on selling price down to £50. Distance,
6 furlongs.
THE NEW YEAR’S GIFT.
A handicap of 150 sovs.; second horse, 30 sovs.
from the prize. The winner of Tattersall's
Cup to carry a penalty of 71b. Distance, 134
mile. Weights to be declared on 37th Decem-
ber.
Day of General Entry (Foal Stakes and Tatter-
sail’s Cup excepted), Wednesday, 5th December,
before 4 p.m.
Entrance for each Race, One Sovereign.
A.J.C. Rules.
By Order.
JAMES PERRY,
Secretary Tattersall’s Club, Sydney 1
DOUBLE EVENT.
A.J.C. SUMMER CUP
TATTERSALL’S CUP.
£50 to 5s.
A.J.C. SUMMER CUP, to be run at Randwick,
36th December. One mile and a half.
TATTERSALL’S CUP, to be run at Randwiek,
1st January. Two Miles.
EDWARD FERRY,
Turf Commission Agent,
Manchester Arms (two doors from Royal Hotel),
George-street, Sydney.
THE FOLLOWING STALLIONS will Stand
the ensuing Season at RICHMOND, where
first-class Paddocks will be provided for Mares,
with every care and attention, but without re-
sponsibility :—
A few half-bred Mares will be taken to Beauclero
at half-price.
Each Horse will be limited to 15 of the public
mares.
All Mares must be paid for and removed by
January 1,1884.
ANDREW TOWN, Richmond.
C
E S D
E S
The following Imported Pure Clydesdale STAL-
LIONS will STAND at Richmond the coming
Season, when first-class Paddocks will be provided
for Mares, with every care and attention, but
without responsibility
MUIR LAD,
Terms —6 Guineas per Mare.
DAVIE,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
GALLANT SCOTCHMAN,
Terms —6 Guineas per Mare.
Comment on these Horses is unnecessary. They
have proved themselves on all the principal Show
Grounds of the Colony, and their Stock have done
the same, their progeny at six months old selling
at from 50 guineas to 100 guineas each.
All Mares must be paid for and removed by
January 1, 1884.
ANDREW TOWN. Richmond.
mO STAND THIS SEASON at MULGRAFB,
JL near WINDSOR, the imported ooastdng
stallion,
PERFECTION,
the thoroughbred horse,
TESTATOR,
and the Exmoor pony,
UNCLE TOM.
PERFECTION, a brown horse, 5 years old, stands
17.1 hands high, perfect in symmetry, with grand
action. His pedigree is as follows :—Sire Coker’s
Perfection, g s Warthe’s Perfection, g g s Jackson’s
Perfection, gggs Catton, ggggs Bay Becking-
ham, g g g g g s Grand Conqueror, g g g g g g s
Henderson’s King George. Dam by Old Pheno-
menon (which horse was sold for *00 guineas), g d
by Wink's Champion Two half-brothers to Per-
fection were sold for 500 and 800 guineas respec-
tively, when 5 and 3 years old. PERFECTION
took 16 first prizes, and was never beaten in a show
ring.
TESTATOR, by the Tester (imp.) out of Rosedale
(imp.), the dam of Kingsdaie, winner of the
Hawkesbury Guineas, See., &c.
UNCLE TOM, winner of first prize at late
Sydney Exhibition, by Sir Thomas (imp.), out of
Pretty Star (imp.) He stands 13 hands high, has
immense strength, beautiful symmetry, and per-
fect action. Pretty Star’s dam (Starlight) was
champion racing pony in England, having won
over £3000, including a match for £600, and was
never beaten.
Terms—
PERFECTION;
Mares left in paddock.. .. 8 guineas each.
Mares taken to horse .. .. 6
TESTATOR 4
UNCLE TOM 3 ,’ „
Good paddocks provided, and every care taken,
without responsibility. As only a limited number
of mares will be taken, early application is necea-
GKORGH TBO,
TO STAND THIS SEASON, at Duckentield,
near Morpeth.—The Thoroughbred Stallion
HENCHMAN
(late Friday), full brother to Robinson Crusoe, the
sire of Navigator, by Angler, out of Chrysolite,
will serve ten approved mares, besides his owner’s,
at Thirty Guineas per mare.
Also,
CROWN PRINCE,
by Kelp'e, out of Queen’s Head, by Yattendon,
out of Gazelle, will serve ten approved mares,
besides his owner’s,
at Ten Guineas per mare.
Splendid paddocks, and every care taken of
mares sent to the above horses, but no responsi-
bility incurred.
All mares must be paid for before removal.
Season ends on 1st January, 1884. Mares not re-
moved on that (fate will be charged ten shillings
per week each up to date of removal.
JOHN SALES.
Duckenfleld, September 18th, 1883.
The programme for the Newcastle New
Year’s Day Regatta is out, and we notice there is
not a bona fide amateur race on the card. We
think the committee could make no mistake in
adding a four-oared race for members of Rowing
Clubs in string-test gigs, as it would, no d >ubt,
draw a crew or two from Sydney, if properly
worked up. The Newcastle Rowing Club has just
added to its fleet a new gig, built by Fuller, of
Melbourne, and at the annual meeting it was
stated that the members would now hare a chance
of being well represented at the regattas on metro-
politan waters, as hitherto they had been heavily
handicapped in their boats. It seems strange the
N.R.C. had not sufficient influence with the Re-
gatta Committee to have a race put on to test
their new gig: but, perhaps the thrashings given
to Newcastle and Morpeth men by Sydney oars-
man are still too fresh in their memory.
At Wagga, on the 17th November, the
Cootamundra-Wagga match for the Cox Cup came
to a conclusion in favour of the former club by
any number of runs. On the previous Saturday,
when the stumps were drawn, which, by the way,
was long before the stipulated time, the Wagga
team had only three wickets to fall, and wanted
119 runs to win. They would not give up the
game or continue play, although there was fully
an hour’s more light, but compelled the Coota-
mundrians to journey to Wagga on the 21st, when
the remaining three men were disposed of for
6 runs, Billy Murdoch was awfully wild, and, over
some fizz, said that he had gone o Wagga deter-
mined to win, but that desire was increased a
thousandfold when he saw the shabby way in
which the Wagga team treated them. One of the
sons of the donor of the Cup was so disgusted that
he offered to pay the whole of the team’s ex-
penses, but the offer was declined.
It is quite probable that the fastest ama-
teur sprinter now on the cinder-path is Mr. F. T.
Ritchie, of the Bradford, (England,) Football Club,
who, although not yet 19 years old, has recently
been credited with some wonderful performances.
At Hinckley, on a grass course, somewhat down-
hill. and with a wind behind him, he ran 130 yards
in 11 3.5 sec., and again only half a yard behind
11 3-5 sec. At Aston Lower Grounds, Birming-
ham, cinder-path, with a fali of about one foot in
120 yards, and with a fresh breeze in his face, he
ran 120 yards less than a yard behind 114-5 sec. On
same path, a week later, with wind in his favour,
he ran 120 yards in 11 3-5 sec., and again about two
feet behind 11*4 sec. Two days afterwards, on
same path, with no wind, he ran 100 yards in a
shade under 10 sec., and again in 9 4-5 sec. And
finally, at Oakengates, on a new cinder-path, a
little up-hill, and with no wind, he ran 13 ) yards in
114-5 sec. The frequency of these performances
seems to preclude the possibility of error, and
prove Ritchie to be a veritable wonder.
Miss Agnes Beckwith, who is now in
America, has accomplished, at various times, the
following undertakings:—When in her fourteenth
year, swam from London Bridge to Greenwich
(5 miles) in Ih. 7m. Julyji. 1876, swam from Batter-
sea bridge to Greenwich (10 miles) in 2h 43m.
July 17, 1878, swam the greatest distance ever swam
by a lady swimmer (30 miles, in the river Thames),
in 6h. 25m., having received no assistance while in
the water. August 25,1879, beat Miss Salgeman
(two miles) for silver cup, at Lambeth Baths. May
8.1880, at the Royal Aquarium, Westminster, dived
into the water at 5 o’clock on a Friday afternoon,
and remained in the water until Saturday night at
11 o’clock, taking her meals in the water and con-
tinually performing graceful natatory feats. Sep.
18.1880, Miss Beckwith successfully completed her
task or swimming 100 hours in one week (six days),
starting on the previous Monday morning at 6
o’cloek, and finishing at 11 o’clock each night.
This extraordinary swim was successfully accom-
plished at 11 o’clock on the following Saturday
night, taking all her meals in the water, occa-
sionally reading while swimming.
On October 9, at Chicago, U.S., the pacer
Johnston, who is certainly worthy of a better
name, covered the mile in 3.10, the fastest time
ever made in harness. After pacing the first
q uarter in 33 sec., he paced the second quarter in
30i sec., a rate of speed never before maintained
in harness for a quarter of a mile. Probably the
Eace is a faster gait than the trot, as a rule. There
as been much discussion of this question, but the
stronger arguments are in favour of the lateral
motion being conducive to the greater speed.
The proportion of horses trained for pacing
that have beaten 2.25, for instance, 1s much greater
than that of those who have been trained for
trotting, and no amount of reasoning can over-
come this stubborn fact. Still, when extremes are
reached, it is not easy to distinguish where the
mile covered by a horse who moves the legs on
one side in unison is inferior to a mile in the same
time by one who moves legs on opposite sides in
unison. The distinction may be very obvious to
theorists, but is not patent to ordinary common
sense. The trot is preferred because it is more
fashionable, and because there is something in the
movements of pacers which renders them, as a
rule, bad breakers, and these considerations appear
to be the foundation of the preference for the trot.
Pacers can be converted to trotters, and vice verm.
The gaits have very much in common, and differ
from; the run in an equal degree, the notion that
the pace approximates the gallop more closely
being entirely fanciful; and pacers and trotters
are harnessed in the same way, draw the same
weights, and perform under similar conditions.
Maud S.’s best time is 2.10*4; so we suppose the
pirty by the name of Johnston may now be styled
the “King of the Turf.”
On the 18th September, John L. Sullivan
was interviewed by a reporter, and gave off to
that gentleman various modest and interesting
details concerning his future programme. Al
Smith, Sullivan’s present manager, stood beside
him, and interpolated an occasional remark. “The
only thing 1 can tell you about my future plans,”
said the champion, “is that I’m starting on a star-
ring tour to California on the 36th of this month.
I’m taking five other boxers with me, so as to form
a combination. The five are:—Slade, Steve Tay-
lor, Pete MaoCoy. Michael Tooley, Mike Gillespie,
and Al Smith the general manager. We calculate
it will nay us * ell toperform in any place that has
apopulatiop of 12,000. You'd open your eye* if
you saw all the dispatches that Mr. Smith has re-
ceived about me.” “Ay, that you would sir,”
said the manager, “ Why, I can assure you that I
have got over one hundred letters within the last
week from people in the West who are dying to
see that man box.” His right arm was pointed
toward Sullivan’s chest. ‘ r You’d imagine that
every man, woman, and child from this to San
Francisco would feel it a personal Insult if we
passed their town or village by without giving an
exhibition.” “ Yes,” resumed Sullivan, “they’re
all mad to see me, and I’ll gratify them as far as
I can. This trip will take us four months, and
after it is over I will go to Boston and attend to
the saloon for a couple of months. After that it
is likely I will go to Europe, though I don’t know
of anyone there who can compete with me. All
the best Europeans are out here. This trip to
California will be the greatest exhibition the
world has ever seen. The men with me are first-
rate witn the gloves, and there will oe no money
spared to make the whole affair as attractive as
possible. Of course we expect to make a good
profit.” “I’ll consider it a dead loss if we don’t
clear 100,000 dols in the four months,” said Al
Smith. *’ I won’t fight any more in a prize ring,”
resumed Sullivan, “ but I am ready to box any
man under the sun.” ‘ What do you think of the
Slade-Mitchell affair ?” asked the reporter, “oh!
Slade is too big a man for Mitchell by long odds.
He’s by far the best man I ever met. Mitchell is
a hard hitter with the left hand, but Slade is much
cleverer at the gloves Slade’s party were quite
riding to fight, but Mitchell and Madden packed
out of it. The fight could easily have come off in
New Orleans, and it was only Madden’s cunning
that prevented it. Madden claims to be a boxer,
but he never boxed anything better than an eld
woman. He never had a cent until 1 picked him
out of the gutter in Boston and gave him a lift.
And then he goes and fetches Mitchell to beat me,
and the same Mitchell may thank Daptain Williams
that he’s not a dead man. Lord! how he danced
reund the stage that night he met me.” Al Smith’s
Sorting words were:—‘There’s more money in
ohn L, Sullivan, sir, than in the whole of Bar
num’s show- He’s worth about 50,000 dols. now—
the saloon in Boston cost him 30,000—but it will be
a wonder to me if he hasn’t doubled that before
six months are over his head. He will be twenty-
flve years old on the 15th of next month, and he
measures round the chest. There’s a man
for you 1”
No doubt the following par will be “ stale
pastry” to colonial old-time sportsbut we dare-
say it will be something: new to the “ latter days”
to learn that two bids were made by Australian
pugilists for the English middleweight champion-
ship—indeed, the second fight maybe said to be for
the championship, as it was against no less a pugilist
than Nat. Langham, the only man who defeated
Tom Sayers. Langham’s science at that time was
too n uch for Sayers, who was led out of the ring
stone blind, though otherwise as strong as a horse,
while, strange to say, the victor had to be carried
to his quarters, and was laid up for some time
from the body-punishment he had received. In
1841, an Australian named Gorrick, who fought
under the soubriquet of “Bungaree,” issued a
challege in the English papers to fight any man
at 10st 71b,. and, after 1 ome nibbling, a match was
made with Johhny Broom for £300 a side, at 10st 7tt>.
Gorrick evidently made the match under his
weight, as on the day previous to the fight, which
came off on the 37th April, 1843, he was found to be
3Hb. overweight, which had to be taken *’ff >» <n o
the following day. Broome took a deci .t i I .ii
from the first round; and, although Buiigan-■
fought a plucky 43 rounds in 57 minutes, it was
painfully evident he was overmatched, as Broome
was too scienced a man to allow him to use the
terrific right, with which Gorrick had won most ef
his battles, and it was only when the poor fellow
was all but stone blind that he was persuaded to
abandon the contest. In 1847, Sparkes, who had
fought his way to the top of the Australian pugil-
istic tree, went to England, and, under the patron-
age of Johnny Broome, Bungaree’s old rival, was
matched against the redoubtable Nat. Langham,
wnd the fight duly came off at Woking on 4th May,
1847. The Australian weighed 10st. 13 lb., and
Langham list. This proved a vastly different
affair from Bungaree’s. In the first round, Lang-
ham, who was remarkable for his wonderfully
quick and effective left-handed deliveries, tried
his favourite hand, but, much to the surprise
of all, the Australian stopped him twice, and
landed a heavy one on the jaw. Langham got a
light one in, when Sparkes countered heavily,
closed, delivered heavily on the body, and threw
his man, upon which the general remark was that
the stranger was no “pick-up.,’ Then followed
one of the fastest and dashing battles ever fought
In the squared circle. Sparkes knocked his man
down in the 3nd, 8th, 13th, 15th, 36th, and 50th
rounds, while Langham fought for the head with
his left, and, although unable to knock his oppo-
nent off his feet, his jobbing hits marked the Aus-
tralian’s frontispiece severely. At the conclusion
of the 63nd round, up to which time the Australian
had a decided lead, the men fell together, and
Sparkes unfortunately got his right arm under his
man, who fell heavily upon it, and, as it after-
wards appeared, broke both the bones of the fore-
arm. On coming up for the 63rd round, Sparkes
held his right arm up, but the pain was too severe,
and he was compelled to drop it. Langham at
once noticed something was amiss, so wont in and
hit away till the Australian fell. Sparkes came up
plucklly for the 67th round, when Broome saw it
was useless to continue with the broken arm, so
stepped Into the ring and threw up his hat in token
of defeat, much against his principal’s will. Sixty-
seven rounds were tought in the remarkably fast
time of 63min. Sparkes did not fight again in
England, and returned to Sydney shortly after.
But he never forgave Johnny Broome for not
allowing him to continue the fight.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
At Auckland (N.Z.), C. Bailey has just
turned out a yacht for Mr. Mitchelson. She Is
stated to be a clipper The Lacmalac eleven
«a match at Adelong against a local team
9 Gregory Cup, and were defeated in one
innings and ten runs to spare P. M’Dermott,
who styles himself champion 50 or 100-miles’ ped.
of Australia, walked 50 miles in 8hrs. 40min., at
the Osborne Hall, Forbes, last week.. .Evolution :
We wonder, if Darwi • were alive now, what he
would think of Huxley’s riding of Archie ?
The married men of Singleton defeated the
bachelors in a cricket match, on 17th November,
by 75 runs to 65. Apropos, all our beat professional
oarsmen are married men A N.Z. weekly speaks
of J. Ives, who recently rowed G. Hill, as a
prominent Sydney sculler. “Poor old Joe.”
H. Asken and J, Fanning ran a dead heat, 150
yards, £10 a side, at Cairns, N.Q. Asken won the
run-off A gymnasium on a large scale has been
started at Rockhampton On September 8, at the
Williamsburg Athletic Club grounds, N.Y., U.8.,
Frank P. Murray did the fastest two-mile walk ever
accomplished by an amateur in America. Time, 13m.
68 l-5s., which beats Armstrong’s record by 3 4-5s.
A Melbourne bowling team will probably visit N.
Z. Joblin and Carr matched to run 100 yards at
Wallsend, for £300 A Sandhurst (Vic.) bicyclist,
named Crowle, lost the indiarubber tire off his
wheel, and his life... The Forbes Jockey Club will
have a one day’s meet on New Year s Day. Seven
events, including a handicap trotting race, saddle
or harness.
• I*
John L. Sullivan and Paddy Ryan will
spar four rounds," Marquis of Queensberry rules,
in Boston, in December. Ryan says: “1 don’t
expect to best Sullivan in four rounds, but I will
bet £300 that he can’t knock me out.” The
champion sneezer has been found in Baltimore,
Md., in the person of John Goekel, driver of a
beer wagon, who while hitching up his team on
September 30 sneezed so hard that he dislocated
his shoulder The .Philadelphia (U.S.) Cricket
Association has determined to send a team of
American amateur cricketers to England
Mile. Armaindo, the American female bicyclist,
recently contended against a team of Shetland
ponie , driven to a top-buggy, I alf-mile dash, at
the fair held at Sterling, 111. The ponies won by a
few feet, inlm. 51s .Mace has in hand a raw-
boned Birmingham man, one Barron, a perfect
terror, whom he designs to match against
Sullivan. Barron weighs 185 pounds It is
reported that Warren Smith, the American
oarsmar, and the crew of his father-in-law’s
vessel, which was reported missing, have been
rescued. It is stated that the men were picked up
by a Norwegian vessel, and carried to a Soutn
Ameiioan port Wallace Ross and F. Plaisted,
the Am irlcan scullers, are running a whisky mill
at Pit. ourg, U.S Herbert A. Slade and Jack
Davis had a regular glove fight at Minneapolis on
Sept. 4. They sparred four rounds, Marquis of
Queensberry rules, and in the last round they
both banged away at each other so viciously that
Jem Mace rushed out on the stage and sepa-
rated them The English sporting journals sug-
5est an international amateur sports meeting. ..
ohnston, the American phenomenal pacer, is to
be given three heats, and if he does all in 3.13 he
will be sold for £6000.... William Astor, of N.Y,
is building the finest yacht the world has ever
seen.” She is to be of steel, to sail and steam, to
be “strikingly fair,” of “yachtlike contour,” and
capable of ocean service,” like a Cunarder.
Whether this yacht will surpass that of Mr. Jay
Gould, has yet to be seen. The latter cost £50,000...
Hanlan says: “ I want to establish my right as
champion of America to a certainty before going
to Australia, and I will put up £1000 against £800,
and row anybody in the world from one to ten
miles. Or 1 will bet £1000 even, that I can row
three miles faster than any man alive. I never
was in better health.” At Portland, U.S., a most
disgraceful scene was made instead of a wrestling
mite >, between Donald Dinnie and Muldoon, the
fentleman Miller is so anxious to put through,
ne terms of the match we do not know, but it
was fixed beforehand. The style was Graeco-
Koman, and after the first bout, Dinnie refused to
go on with the exhibition. This raised a howl,
and almost a riot, the police clearing the building
with difficulty. Muldoon was evidently guilty of
breach of contract....R. S. Haley, the American
amateur flyer, recently underwent an operation,
but it is hoped that after a year’s rest, he may
appear on the running path titter than ever....
Snook, who recently ran 1500 yards in 3.38 1-5, is a
Shrewsbury lad, and is not yet 33 years old. He is
short, and weighs about lOst. 7fi>„ but loses
exactly 161b. to get fit, running at 9st. 4ft A
novel race between a pigeon and a p'my has just
taken place at Bedworth (Eng.), tbe former flying
a mile and the latter galloping half a mile. A
capital start was made, the starter standing half-
way between the pigeon and the pony, and after
a most exciting race, the bird won by eighty
yards. .T. Scotton, who for v ears acted as referee at
mostof the English pigeon matches, is dead There
appears to be a prospec. o* tbe proposed prize
fight in England bet«, en J .ck Burke, who fought
a draw with Charles vntohe'l. and Alt'. Greenfield.
... In America, B> >gardus bus offered to match his
son, Eugene, to shoot Stu'c.g for £5o a side at 100
glass balls.. .A gentleman t Tiverton-on-Avon,
Bath (Eng.), claims to have Ci .-ated a revolution in
the game of skittles by t rans'Crring the venue of
the sport f roii t c ab>> r>n. . >wn, where some
ten cones >■!••• mue > into tbe r >und with a flat
surface up v ,r.is. A corresponding number of
neatly-oons ructed ninepins are lixed on the flat
surface of i tie cones ; there are tnree handsome
balls, and these, witn a net something like a
cricket “ practice-net,” complete the entire set.
Any number of players can join in the game, which
can be enjoyed on any moderate-sized lawn
A Yankee paper gave the following as Freddy
Gebhardt’s views on the proposed Slade-Mitchell
fight:—“ I knowed they wouldn’t never fight. The
last thing I says to Lil, says I, ‘ Mark nay words,
now, dearie, them chumps don’t mean biz.’ You
can't fool me, not on men. anyhow, and don’t you
forget it.” Harry Bartlett, 31 years old. 5 ft. 8
in., 9st. 3fl>, and Jack Magee, 5ft. 5in., fought with
bare knuckles, according to London prize ring
rules, on Sept. 3, near London, for a purse. Bart-
lett, who was considerably the heavier man
of the two, had all the best of the milling,
and ultimately won in Ih. 7m., 33 rounds having
been contested.
It is necessary for an English officer to
have “four or five coats of different patterns.”
If this were necessary for the press, what a lot of
geniuses would be wool-washing I
At the recent Highland Gathering, the
hon. member for Canterbury was present at the
sports, and the result is that there is now alive and
hearty in Sydney a musician of whom the Scrip-
tures have told us a great deal. We allude, of
course, to “the piper who clayed before Moses.”
A gentleman connected with a noble and
enlightened profession in this city, wishing to
ensure his life with a view of successfully nego-
ciating a certain business transaction, gave the
name of a friend, in the usual manner, to whom
application might be made for the necessary state-
ment. The “friend” returned the form in due
course, and we are in a position to set a copy of it
before our readers :—
FRIEND’S STATEMENT
with regard to the health of Mr
1. How lons have you
known Mr
Are you a relative ?
2. Are you In the habit
of seeing him fre-
quently, and when
did you see him
last ?
Too long.
This is an insult I
In the lock-up.
3. Is he at this time, to
the best of your
knowledge, in per-
fect health ?
He’s one foot in the
grave and the other in
a beer-cellar.
i. What is the general
state of his health ?
He hasn’t any.
5. Are you aware whe-
ther he has a pre-
disposition to any
disease, hereditary
or ot tier wise ? If
so, please state par-
ticulars.
His principal disease is
unguarded boots.
6. Are you aware if any
symptoms have
manifested them-
selves, or have you
heard of any cir-
cumstances to lead
you to suspect that
he is liable to con-
sumption, or other
pulmonary com-
plaints, or spitting'
of blood, gout,
asthma, or fits of
any kind ?
You are referred to the
Clerk of the Peace.
7. Do you know if any
of his near rela-
tives have suffered
from scrofula,
mental derange-
ment, or any other
hereditary disease?
The chief thing they’ve
“ suffered from” is the
“ final penalty.”
8. Please to state what
information you
possess (if any) re-
specting- the long-
evity of his near
relatives ?
Their names are carved
on the beam, with
dates, &c., in the usual
manner.
9. Do you believe his
habits to be active,
sober, and temper-
ate ?
He is active when near
the corner, sober when
in gaol, and temperate
in the use of soap and
water.
10. Have you ever
known or heard of
his habits having
been intemperate ?
Yes ; principally when
he has been run over.
11. Do you know, or
have you heard of
any circums r ances
connected with his
health, habits, or
employment, tend-
ing to impair
health or shorten
life?
The thing most likely to
shorten his existence
is the rope.
12. Are there any other
circumstances
within your know-
ledge with which
the Directors
ought to be made
acquainted, in or-
der that they may
form a correct esti-
mate of the eligi-
biiity of the Life
for Assurance ?
When the Directors are
acquainted with his
face, it will be suffi-
cient.
13. Have you any inte-
rest in the Assur-
ance applied for ?
No ; but a great disgust
at that of the appli-
cant.
Application refused.


JJ1URNITDRB SHOW BOOM
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
H~ ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS, and
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
LiMARF FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
TABLES. BOOKCASES. SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
WALL CAT?! NETS for Choice China, fcc.,
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
FURNITURE.-THE LARGEST STOCK IN
THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, O’Oonnell-street.
ARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
BEDROOM S Lil’lTfj complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell stteets, Sydney.
IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY,
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Oonnell-street.
CHEAP FU&NTTuISE.— Whatnots,from 80s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, fram 35s; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stand*, from 10s 6d; Tables, from 7s 6d: Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 30s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, frem 25s; Cedar Sideboards, from 76s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Hareas, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
S
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR—
Patented.
-r
This chair adjusts itself to any position, irom
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
tiat can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only).
Easy occasional chairs, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
Drawing-room occasional chairs.—
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 13s 6d.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, complete, 40 Guineas.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, comprising 5-FEET
EARLY ENGLISH SIDEBOARD, MAHOGANY
EXTENDING DINING TABLE, with patent
screw and two 1 aves ; LARGE PIER GLASS,
COUCH, GENT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAIRS, covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
JARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Ormolu.
VERY ELEGANT items for Drawing-room.
FRAMEWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS. —A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
F“ RAMBWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell-street.
WASHSTAND8, with marble, 35s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS, 20s; Verandah Chairs,
INplAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE. —A very complete
Assortment; best make, low est prices.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, Iron Safes (all sizes)
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
TTCE CHESTS, all sizes, very superior make. t5x-
1 amine before purchasing. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
COMMODE CHAIRS, SHAVING STANDS.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
JAPANESE BLINDS, for Verandahs, 8 x 8,11s;
7 9 x 8,13s; 10 x 8,14a. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB.
S~TEINWAY NEW YORK PIANOS, the FINEST
in the world. A SHIPMENT just landed.
T IPP’S CELEBRATED PIANOS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB
have received
another LARGE SHIPMENT
of
R. LIPP and SONS’ celebrated PIANOFORTES
direct from the Makers, comprising TALL
GRANDS, LITTLE UPRIGHT GRANDS, SA-
LOON GRANDS, VERY HANDSOME and of the
HIGHEST CLASS FINISH,
in
WALNUT and BLACK GOLD.
|y WE HAVE NOW THE LARGEST STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA OF
UPP’S PIANOS
TO SELECT PROM.
WE INVITE INSPECTION.
FOR PRIVATE SALE AT EXTREMELY LOW3
PRICES.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Pianoforte Importers,
O’Connell and Spring itreeti.
SOCIAL.
On Saturday last a garden party was given
at Government House in honour of the Earl and
Countess of Rosebery. A large number of guests
assembled, and at about 4 o’clock, the grounds
were gdy with graceful forms moving about in all
directions, accompanied by attendant cavaliers in
the usual sombre garments, varied here and there
by an occasional uniform. The weather was fine,
mild, and balmy; nwer did the waters of our beau-
tiful harbour look more enticing or the sails of
our yachts more snowy in the gleaming sunshine.
Many new and elegant costumes were observable,
and white lawns with coloured sashes were much
favoured, fresh-looking and cool. Lady Augustus
Loftus wore a handsome brewn brochti; and the
Countess of Rosebery a rich trained dress of cream
satin, point, lace; blue velvet with bonnet to match.
Lady Stephen was in black, and her daughter in
pink; Miss Q. Eagar wore a pretty and very nicely
fitting pale blue checked and plain zephyr cloth;
Mrs. Moriarty s costume was of a deep claret
colour; and Mrs. John Smith’s, a delicate pink.
Mrs. Hotfnung was becomingly attired in fawn
silk embroidered with? floured flowers, while Mrs.
Paul chose blue nun's iling trimmed with satin;
Mrs. J. Harris wore lavender silk with lace cape;
Mrs. Eraser, grey brocud; Miss E. Burdett Smith,
cream, with knots of narrow ribbon; Miss Maclean,
a striped blue dress; and Mrs. J. Watson, cardinal
broch6. Among the gentlemen were Baron
Hilbner, the Captain of the Italian man-of-war,
Sir P. Jennings, Hon. G. Eagar, Hon. H. E. Cohen,
Judge Wilkinson, Professor Gurney, Dr. Garran,
Hon. A. Stuart, Sir G. W. Allen, Mr. George
Eorbes. Another of these agreeable open-air
gatherings is to take place on Saturday next,
when it is to be hoped the afternoon will be
as pleasant a one as before.
♦ ♦ ♦
One of the prettiest weddings in the Syna-
gogue was that last week, when Miss Bertha Gold-
man was wedded to Mr. B. G. Cohen, of Tamworth.
The bride, who is a pretty brunette, and second
daughter of Mrs. Goldman, Prudhoe, Darling
Point, wore an ivory satin dress trimmed with
flounces of Brussels lace, pullings, and deep-kilted
satin flounce, long court train vandyked, and
peaked jacket body; wreath of orange blossoms
and myrtle. Six bridesmaids accompanied the
bride, all wearing stylish cream surah silks,
trimmed with eidelweis lace of apricot tint, roses
at throat, cream lace hats and tipped feathers, and
carrying baskets of flowers. The ladies were;
Miss Emmie Goldman (bride’s sister), Miss Carrie
Cohen (bridegroom’s sister). Miss Florrie Cohen,
or Seven Oaks, and Miss Zara Brodziak, cousins of
the bride; two little maids being Misses Lillie
Goldman and Maude Levey. Mr. Cohen’s present
to his bride was a splendid diamond suite of neck-
let and earrings, and to the maids each a gold
bangle. An exceedingly beautiful dress was dis-
played by the bride’s mother, of brown satin,
with ficelle Spanish lace flounces and pompon
fringe; court train of satin brocade, and peaked
jacket body of fawn colour. Brown bonnet with
gold lace and berries, and diamond jewellery.
The mother of the bridegroom wore a very line
claret broch£ with pompon fringe, and a cream lace
bonnet. Qf the many handsome toilets which brigh-
tened the beautiful Synagogue building, only a
few can be selected. The bride’s sister, Mr$.
Hyman, a gracef ul and petite blonde, wore helio-
trope broclni body and train, over a dainty skirt of
cream surah silk with apricot lace trimming, and
a cream Gainsboro’ hat. Miss Cohen, the bride-
groom’s eldest sister, wore green surah silk, short,
and a cream hat decked with green leaves. Miss
Levey’s cream satin was trimmed with cream lace
flounces, the jacket body and of skirt being
of beautiful gauze velvet—a decidedly pretty
dress. Mrs. Morris Cohen wore black satin and
long train, bugle lace, pearl grey bonnet. Mrs.
Montague Levey, a black satin brocade jacket
body and train over satin skirt with lace flounces.
Mrs. Goldring, a lustrous black satin brocade with
pompon fringe, diamonds; Mrs. L. Hyman, a
beautiful pink brocade body and train, skirt of
electric blue brocade, and cream bonnet; Mrs. L.
W. Levy’s dress was very effective, being body and
train of black gauze velvet, and black satin petti-
c mt trimmed with lace flounces. The bride’s
travelling dress was of fawn nun’s veiling, panier
bodice trimmed with garnet velvet, lace skirt,
gauntlet gloves ; and among her nume.ous costly
presents were : a splendid grand piano, over half
a hundredweight silver plate, and a cheque for
four figures. Breakfast was given at Prudh e,
after which the Wedding Quadrille was danced on
the lawn, and the bride and bridegroom departed
for the Mountains. A large party continued the
dancing, to the music of the German Band, till
four next morning. On the return of Mr. and
Mrs. Cohen, a ball takes place at Prudhoe.
• • •
Lawn tennis parties are the acme of fashion
in London. Hours from 4 to 7; sometimes followed
by a dinner indoors, and dancing, but usually not,
refreshments such as tea and coffee, cake, ices,
champagne cup, with anything else the hostess
may choose to add, being served in a marquee on
the lawn. All society celebrities meet at such
parties, and in the pleasure grounds of some
splendid mansions they are very brilliant affairs.
On large lawns, ten or twelve sets are played at
the same time. Not to be a tennis player in these
days is to argue oneself an outer barbarian at
once. Nevertheless, one need not actually do
anything, it disinclined. In that case, the correct
thing is to go in white flannel and carry a racquet,
which constitutes you enough of a player to meet
the requirements of fashion. White raiment
always preponderates, and for a lady’s dress white
flannel or cashmere simply made can hardly be
improved upon. But, if she takes an active part,
a lady must sacrifice not only her feet but her
waist, if they are both pretty. To really play the
game, with an elaborate costume always upper-
most in the t v,f 'ughts, with cramped feet, high
heels, and squ .zed waist, is impossible. In fact,
it isn’t safe. The stitches which ornament dainty
bottines, or hold together the symmetry of an
ideal figure, are not intended to stand the active
exertions of lawn tennis.
• • •
“A little spring, and a little spirit”—the key
of the gliding waltz. Steps may be quick and
clever, every movement accurate; but you don’t
get to the poetry of the waltz till its done with a
little spring, and a little spirit. There w is a good
deal of waltzing done at Professor West’s Evening
Party last Thursday ; it was more than half the
.✓programme, and it seemed the half that everyone
enjoyed most. Music, by Mr. Chaytor and three
assistants, was excellent, and played at an easy
rate suitable to the warm evening. There were
also songs in the intervals. Supper, spread by the
City C Co., was available all the time till the
building was cleared, and its quality was above all
cavil. Flowers, mostly scarlet, ferns, and leafy
garlands, were lightly rahged round the hall, and
the cool corridors were favourite resorts. Two
o’clock saw the end of the ball, which was a very
pleasurable one for dancers, and quite free from
the collisions that always happen when a number
of miscellaneous styles are mingled together.
• ♦ ♦
At a fancy ball in Remuera Hall, Auck-
land, one young lady appeared as a “ Hornet.”
We wonder no one has thought of it before, be-
cause any girl with a modern waist could take the
character. And a lot of girls wore their chess
dresses. The 16 pawns at the Tournament there
were all girls; so the game afforded a much better
chance of a good match. We wonder Sydney
girls didn’t think of this, too,
• »
An enjoyable outing was given by Mr.
John Purcell, of Siirry Hills, on Thursday, at
Carry’s. Buses left the Town Hall at 11, and the
dust of the road was soon forgotten in the comfort
derived from bivalves, etceteras, on arrival at the
Bay. Acquaintances mingled, dancing soon effaced
shyness, or, if it didn’t, 3 o’clock luncheon did.
For it was then the Squire of Glengariffe told all
those customary precious fibs about the ladies to
their precious faces, that make people wonder
whether they believe them all, and, if they do,
whether there is anything they don’t believe.
Dancing and different sports filled the time. The
ladies looked happy; none more so than the young
lady from Avenel, the graceful daughter of the
host, in white, and three lovely sisters from the
mid-city in white. A veritable Iris wore a cos-
tume of black ottoman silk body, extended into
long coat-tails lined with canary silk, skirt of
simple white —total, very charming. Shortly be-
fore 7 the company left for town, gay and grati-
fied.
* * ♦
The steamer Admiral conveyed about 170
down the harbour for the Master-Grocers’ pic ic
Every care was taken to keep it select. The mere
mention of Ciontarf is such a loadstone to the
Sussex-street elite that it is very difficult to per-
suade them their “ patronage” is not essential
there on every occasion. The Master-Grocers
were firm but polite to these young gentlemen on
the wharf. The steamer looked in at mos 1 of the
bays on the way down. Passing the Espeigle the
picnicke-s’ band played “Rule Britannia,” but '
passing the Italian navy they continued, no doubt
inadvertently, the same glorious air, to the great |
mental disgust of an Italian Sir Joseph Porter
wno was just getting on board. On arrival,
appetites and oysters had a great struggle, but
eventually the oysters suffered the fate of Hicks
Pasha’s army. Quoits, cricket, dancing to the
Foung Australian Band, and a run up the harbour
followed. By two o’clock all had so tar recovered
their appetites as to be able to struggle success-
fully with the picnic fowls, most of which
it is believed walked across the continent
with Ernest Morrison. No explorer ought to
be witho t picnic fowls; their endurance
renders them invaluable, and in long stretches of
country they could be sent ahead to look for
water. Mr. J. R. Love was chairman. Messrs. Mit-
chell and Mulrooney besugared the ladies, and then
sports were resumed. Afternoon tea and ices
were served, and the steamerful returned home at
dusk, after a capital day's amusement.
* • •
Of the country racecourses, Wagga is one
of the most fashionable, and this yea. there was a
show of muslin and millinery in the grand-stand
that will cause youth to sigh in the City of the
Crows for weeks to come The local drapers
made special importations for the Cup Day, and I
with fine weather, the result was brilliant. A !
lo al lady in pale blue satin, with pink bonnet, j
was thought to possess one of the prettiest toilets;
while two sisters in claret satin were good-looking j
enough to sometimes draw attention away from !
the horses, and to those who know Wagga, that’s I
saying a great deal. It will be remembered, too,
that when Sir Hercules compared a charming
woman to a thoroughbred up there, he gave them |
to understand fiat he was paying the lady a j
rather high compliment.
On the Sydney Block there have been
some curious characters —mashers as well as
mashed. One exquisite, whose grey unnameahies
were so tight as to show to the plainest how
shadowy was his wilted frame, wore a crushed
strawberry necktie, and a corner of the same
coloured handkerchief just peeping out of his
pocket. Another perfectly irresistible dandiprat,
in a large check suit, wore silver bangles on his
wrist, and carried a small cane for a “ comforter,”
from the knob of which he seemed to derive a
good deal of sustenance. A pretty girl wore a line
cashmere dress of that new lake colour, which is
bidding to be popular for the summer Crinolettes
still grow ; they, have reached such an enormous
size now that even if the pavement were strewn
with orange peel, ladies would be quite safe.
White will be correct, for three months at least.
A pair of sisters looked very charming in white
lawn skirts, with deep flounces, and edging of rich
muslin work, gathered bodies and pale blue waist-
bands. A petite lady, with a curly blonde head,
was novel as nice in her idea of trimming her
cream muslin with crimson lace ; and the Henri
II. with crimson velvet and plumes to match.
Parasols carry artificial fruit on them, which is
really foolish. Most probably, therefore, it will
become very fashionable. The “ Rector ” collar is
stylish, as well as neat. Pretty dust-cloaks are
made of small-check washing silks, but real good
China siik is still the best.
» (
The Amateur Dramatic Club of Balmain
performed “Our Girls” in the School of Arts on
Friday, to a crowded audience in full dress. Cap-
tain Gingah was well acted by a local gentleman,
and the cousins Helen and Lilian Gavtherne were
piquantly personated by two pretty Balmain girls,
Misses M. Morran and Bessie Brown. Mr. Frank
Smith was a good Fred. Fanshawe, the roving
relative of the cousins, and was kind enough to
speak out loud. We only mention this because
amateurs generally (not in Balmain, of course,
but, as Dr. Mrs. Potts says, “ in other parts of the
world”) forget that the people in back seats want
to hear what is going on. “Turn Him Out” fol-
lowed, and then about forty couples, who had
been invited, stayed for several hours' dancing.
♦ • *
The Revs. Taylor and Martin, at St.
Stephen’s Church, Newtown, celebrated the
marriage of Miss f. Horsfall (Mavor of Macdonald-
town's e'dest daughter) to Mr. Norton, of New-
town, on the 31st November. The blonde bride
was attired in white satin and lace, long train,
blossoms, veil and wreath. Nine maids wore short
dresses of cream, India muslin and lace—five of
them looped with pink ribbons, and four with
blue; flowers in their hair to match. Guests with
handsome dresses were numerous, and altogether
there was a good deal of pomp and vanity in the
holy edifice. Organ pealed out, and breakfast was
held at Sandringham. Honeymoon to Melbourne.
A ball was given in the evening.
• • •
A rather novel p arty was given at South
Melbourne by Mrs Russell, who entertained the
members of the Fernside Bicycle Club. They
came, of course, in the only way consistent with
dignity that bicyclists could come, and generally
propped their horses against the fence while they
wont in for fun. A further grace was added to
the party by one of the lady guests travelling
with them on a tri.-ycle. Dinner, music, and
dancing passed the time till supper, when a special
toast was given—“ The Ladv on the Tricycle.” At
last the end came, phantom steeds were again
mounted, and then, like the Arabs, they “silently
stole away.” We don’t know whether they rode
in claw-ha umers, or, if so, what they did with the
tails.
• • •
Miss Alice Sydney Burvett, who has lately
returned from England, where she earned musical
honours, will give her first musical recital in the
Town Hall next Tuesday. It will be a very
fashionable affair.
* * ♦
Another Sydney musician, who has come
back with his brow garlanded with bays, is Mr.
Percy Fitz-Stubbs. At the Royal Academy of
Music, Mr. Fitz-Stubbs studied the art in its chief
branches, harmony, instrumentation, and compo-
sition; pianoforte, sight singing, and choir music.
As the professors there considered he had enough
to do, he applied to the celebrated Scotson Clark
(Principal of London Organ School) for organ tui-
tion, who, on hearing him play, at once took the
aspirant under his personal care—a very rare con-
cession. With a view of securing a libretto spe-
cially written for him, Mr. Fitz-Stubbs interviewed
G. R. Sims, who, after listening to some of his
compositions, undertook to write him an operetta,
which he has done. Having studied under the
following eminent masters-Sir. G. A. Macfarren,
Ebenezer Prout, aton Fanning, William Shake-
speare, and Signor Antoine-and passed his exami-
nation in July last, Mr. Percy Fitz-Stubbs has now
returned to Sydney to follow the profession in
which he promises to become distinguished.
♦ * * *
On Thursday night last, the first season of
the Excelsior Assembly, Balmain, was brought to
a close by a fancy dress ball in the Temperance
Hall. Dancing, under the control of Mr. H.
Clarke, continued till nearly day. Mr. Smith fur-
nished music, and Mr. Miller catered On 21st
November, Miss Anna, eldest daughter of Mr. F.
Schafer, was married in St. John's Church, Bega,
to Mr. B. Clynick. Dinner to 150 in the Wolumla
School of Arts, and dancing till next morning —
Newcastle Liedertafel had a smoke night on the
3!nd in their room at the Great Northern Hotel.
All went well; Mr. Donald was encored for “The
Bridge,” a trio by Messrs. Hewison, Barry, and
Lardelli was similarly honoured. The “Joy
Waltz ” was given by the Liedertafel capi-
tally The Parramatta Druids had their
annual excursion on Wednesday week in
the Alathea to Manly. Dancers were fortunate in
having the Cumberland Band, and a programme
of sports was carried through. The most novel
event was a race for engaged couples (I), for
which the prizes were an almm and a pair of
silver gar elastics, we mean Liverpool has
suffered a loss in Mrs. Priddle, wife of the vicar of
St. Luke’s, and a woman of goodness and charity.
The lady was a daughter of the late Hon. J.
Norton, of Petersham... A ball in the R.C. school-
room. Jamberob, was a success ; good supper,
bright, amiable girls, and plenty of them
Dr. Muskett, who left for England per Sorata,
was presented with a souvenir by the Press re-
porters in returnjfor his courtesy while house-
surgeon of Sydney Hospital. The doctor has an
appointment from the Immigration Department.
. .. Mr. W. G. Denshire was banquetted at Flood’s
Hotel, Liverpool, on leaving the local Post-office
to go to Parramatta—Dairymen’s Protective
Association held their annual picnic at the Sir
Joseph Banks, on the 31st ult., when there was
dancing, &c. Mr. Coward presided at the dinner,
and Mr. Bed well toasted the Association,. .Messrs.
Robertson’s coach factory annual picnic took
glace last week at Clontarf; attendance large,
weetman’s band played for dancers; ball at
Bailey’s rooms at night —Brisbane Orchestral
Society welcomed the new Governor with a grand
concert; and Sir Anthony and Lady Musgrave
held their first reception last Thursday A
“London Working Men’s Club” is about to be
initiated in Sydney Hon. J. G. Francis, M.P.,
Melbourne, very ill—At the funeral of young
Crowle, at Sandhurst, who was thrown on his
head from a bicycle (through the tire catching in
the break), forty bicyclists wheeled their machines
in front of the hearse Lady Clarke gave a very
large ball on Thursday in Melbourne Town Hall...
Captain J. W. Evans, of the Tasman, was pre-
sented with a purse of sovereigns on his last
voyage from Sydney to Hobart ....The United
Volunteer Fire Brigade Band played selections in
the Botanic Gardens last Saturday afternoon. The
beautiful weather tempted an extra large attend-
ance at the Zoo The railway employes of the
Traffic Branch held their annual picnic on Monday
at Parramatta Park. Over 1300 present, and
speeches in the pavilion at dinner. ...A very
pleasant entertainment was held in the Lyceum
School-room by the United Literary Association.
Recitations, music, &c., and a large audience....
- — -- | — _ _ 1 »
Social continued on next page! “ r *~
“DISTANCE LENDS ENCHANTMENT.”
Party on Rock: “Ha ! yonder is a photographer with his camera pointed this way.
Well, there can be no doubt but that a really good figure, in an otherwise uninterest-
ing landscape, helps out the picture marvellously! ” [Strikes a graceful attitude .]
And perhaps he never will know that he was hopelessly posing before the theodelite of
a surveyor, who was laying out suburban allotments.


XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
IX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
variety and excellent value. bed-
stead tor 12s. 6d„ looks cheap, and so
It is, dirt cheap
Our Bedsteads at £310s. are marvels
Hartshorn’s Spring Rollers, for any
window, at 13id. each.
Estimates given for Houses through-
out, from the Drawing-room to Ser-
vant’s Room, and faithfully and
promptly carried out. Now is the time
to get ready for the approaching festive
Christmas Season. Give us a call to-
day.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
311 Pitt-street.
READY-MADE CLOTHING.
Never before have we been able to
offer the public such grand value as
now.
GENTLEMEN’S x „
Tweed Sac Suits, well cut, good stuff,
nice patterns, £1, £1 10s., £3.
Blue Serge Sac Suits, 30s.
Tweed Trousers, 6s. lid.
Trousers and Vests, 13s. 6d.
White Linen Patrol Coats. 6s. 6d.
China Silk Dust Coats, 13s. 6d.
BOYS’ and YOUTHS’
Fancy Tweed Knickerbocker Suits,
14s. 6d. _ ,
Blue Serge Man-o’-War Suits, 13s. 6d.,
15s. 6d., 18s. 6d. _
Blue Diagonal Suits, with Yests, 15s. 6d.
Eton and Rugby Suits, 18s. 6d.
Eancy Tweed Trousers, 4s. lid. upwards.
Boys’ and Men’s Hats, in Straw, Felt,
Cloth.
Shell Helmets, Cricketing, and Travel-
ling Caps, Camp Hats, Is. 6d.
Paris Hats for Gentlemen, and half the
price you usually pay.
Remember the ADDRESS
HORDERN BROTHERS,
*11, Pitt-«tr«et. Sydney,
near King-street.
Handy to all the Trams.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
vv a
IX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
X
X
Hordern brothers
invite your inspection to-day or
the following shipments, just uncased
ex Cuzco.
PRINT & SATEEN DEPARTMENT.
A grand lot of exquisite patterns
and marvellously-cheap Fabrics, com-
mencing at 3Md; really gran > goods for
the money.
A choice lot of Sateens, commencing
at 6d a yard ; first-class patterns and
XX beautiful colours.
A large, well-assorted lot of most un-
common patterns at 9d. These goods
are well worth your inspection.
Sateens, Zephyr Cloth, Ginghams,
Prints in stripes, checks, spots, ana
plain goods.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
if
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
DRKSS DEPARTMENT.
The Nuns’ Veiling, so much en-
quired after, we have in all colours, and
also in black, including brown, myrtles,
bronzes, dried rose, chauldron, rasp-
bern, strawberry, &c
A nice lot of checked Nuns Veiling
at Is 2d. Very first class goods, grand
effect, and pretty.
Alpacas as low as 6d a yard; very nice
g( Cashmeres, in colours and black, at
all prices. , „ , , . ,
A beautiful lot of light airy goods,
just the thing for the present season.
SILK DEPARTMENT.
A grand lot of Broche Silks and
Satins now showing.
Black Satin we have in all prices
from Is lid to 10s fid. A better lot of
Black Satins are not being shown in
It you have bought some dress stuff
elsewhere, and cannot get satins or silk
etactly to match, you can calculate on
getting it matched at our warehouse, as
we specially lay ourselves out to keep
all the shades in the market
A beautiful lot of Box Costumes in
India Muslin and Crepe Tasso, gor-
geously embroidered, a id producing
when made up a very effective dress,
only 39s fid. You may see these goods
ticketed in other drapers’ windows, and
advertised at 50s. This is a fact.
HABERDASHERY DEPARTMENT.
A department much neglected by
many drapers, but one which we con-
sider a very important one, and give it
our best attention accordingly. Our
buyer at home when he buys the dress
fabrics is very careful in getting but-
tons and other trimmings to match ex-
actly, and if necessary, specially made
(for you can get any made there). You
can get all the trimmings brought to
you by the one salesman. You are not
required to go from counter to counter
as in some shops.
MILLINERY DEPARTMENT.
Beautifully trimmed Summer Hats,
at 4s lid, is our latest triumph. 3 hese
goods are really very effective, and are
well adapted to the present season.
Lovely little Bonnets at 10s fid is an-
other production of our work-rooms,
which we feel proud to call your atten-
tion to. They are really very choice,
effective, and pretty.
We have a most extensive stock of
trimmed millinery, although we are
sorry to say we have scarcely room
enough to show it to the best advan-
tage- Trimmed hats and bonnets at all
prices up to 45s. Our 45s bonnet being
beautiful imported Paris trimmed
goods, which in shops we could men-
tion they are asking as much as 54s for.
It is a mistake to think that you get
anything more stylish or newer by
going to credit houses and giving twice
the money. You know we have our re-
presentatives in Paris and London, pick-
ing up all the newest ideas and most re-
cent designs, and the most stylish goods,
and forwarding to us the best plates
and information to guide in making, and
no one can do more. How much better
your husbands would be pleased if you
were to get the same goods at half the
price, and spend the other half in gloves,
ribbons, ties, &c. This is no idle fable,
but stern solid fact, which we are glad
to know a great many ladies are finding
out, and which you may prove to- ay
by inspecting our stock. Spend this
afternoon in town ; come in and see cur
millinery first; don’t buy now -mind
you don’t buy- go right away and see
other milliners’ goods. Be in earnest,
and don’t be in a nurry, and we reckon
to see you back about 5 o’clock to leave
your money with us.
CARPETS,
We are contractors to the Govern-
ment for these goods, and sell cheaper
than others in the same business, and
this will 'prove it. The managing
partner in one of the best carpet houses
in this city, in course of conversation,
said to one of our firm, that wc would
never make the Carpet Department
pay ; but we are not extortionate, but
content with a small remuneration and
a fair interest on our money invested,
and do make it pay sufficiently to satisfy
us. although we charge prld,8far below
our neighbours.
Best Brussels Carpets, choicest designs,
5s. a yard
Second quality, excellent patterns, 3s.
lid. a yard
Borders and Hearthrugs, to match
Crosslev’s Celebrated Tapestry, Is. fiid.
to 2s. Hd.
Heartiirugs to match, from 3s. Ud. to
17s. fid.
Felt and Kidder Carpets, from Is. to 3s.
fid. a yard
Stair Carpet, in Brussels Tapestry, Jute
Hemp, from fid.
Kidderminster Squares, with borders
and fringed edges, suitable for any
size room, from 12s. fid.
: Nairn’s Floorcloth, best quality, from
half a yard to 6 yards wide, to
match, 3s. 3d. the square yard
Cornices, made any width and depth,
with suitable fringes, from 25s.;
Cornice Poles, from 5s. lid.
Window and Bed Valences, to order, in
approved designs, and elaborate up-
holstering
Mosquito Nets, to fit any bed, at the
shortest notice.
A man will be sent anywhere to
measure and give an estimate, free of
Tapestry— Apollque, Madras, Indian,
Leno, Lace and Muslin Curtains, to
suit the re mirementa and purse of
every purchaser
Bedsteads and Bedding, in very large
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
AX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
IX
The mayoral election comes on after the return
of the new aldermen. The candidates are Alder-
man Playfair and Alderman Hardie. The election
of Alderman Playfair, who has been one of the
party of reform at the Town Hall, is considered
certain. , , .
A quiet but pretty wedding took place at
St. John’s, Ash field, when Mr. J. Lister, of Sydney,
led to the altar a well-known captain s daughter,
in sapphire satin de lyon and apricot lace, neglige
of apple and orange blossoms. Two sister brides-
maids wore a happy combination of grey and elec-
tric blue. Breakfast at Studley.
All sorts of speculations were rife among
the quid-nuncs when the report in the Evening
Lyre got put about that John Solomon (father of
the now famous co-respondent in the Horwitz
divorce case) had “vamoosed the ranch for
“Abraham’s bosom.” They were promptly
quashed, however, on Wednesday, when delighted
Sydney heard that the old boy was as right as
nlnepence. The Lyre should be indicted for man-
slaughter. . .
The Mrs. Hampson mission arrangement
committee have squared accounts. After paying
all expenses, there was £87 over; this amount has
been divided between the Y.M.C. and the Evan-
gelistic Mission. All that Mrs. Hampson would
take was a sum representing her expenses from
Melbourne to Sydney, and the cost of a return
ticket from Sydney to San Francisco. This is all
very nice. Hampson is as Hampson does. But
for all that, we should extremely like to see an
exhaustive analytical balance sheet.
“ Her pencil drew what’er soul designed,
and oft the happy thought surpassed the image of
her mind.” So wrote the Poet Laureate, little
thinking that this serviceable article, the pencil,
would be the indispensable pocket companion of
boy and man, artist and artizan, as well as prince
and peasant. The firm of E. Wolff and Son, Lon-
don, pencil manufacturers, is of such importance
as to form the subject of a sketch in the European
Mail as one of the industries of the United
Kingdom. This celebrated firm have supplied Her
Majesty’s Government and the Bank of England
with pencils for upwards of fifty years, which is
sufficient recommendation as to their quality.
The firm, with commendable enterprise, have
determined that the colonies shall have the benefit
of its superior manufactures, and consequently
some time ago established an agency at Eldon
Chambers, Pitt-street, under the management of
Mr. E. B. Wolff, the success of which is noted by
the fact that their goods are now procurable
throughout Australia.*
vm.
LLT
STASL.
$
SHE
11
11
II
11
11
m.
ALLTiC
WA
'///,
II
v. #
>555
I: ,1
1 id ’ A; ij
1 *> • l)i I I
U3U
- L - .Me= ’/>
£1
3a£
in ALIT & CO.’S Ik lie and Spirit Stem ail Stilus,
CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.
Messrs. TRUMAN, HANBURY, BUXTON & CO., I Messrs. A. C. MU.UKOW & CO., _ .
Brewers, Burton-on-Trent; I _ . LOgnac,
„ JOHN EOJBERTSON & SONS, , h E * & J * B^jSh?
Light Sparkling Trent Ale;
Messrs. MUNZER & SPANN,
Bordeaux, Clarets ;
The Due de Montebello Champagne, 8/Ay, France;
The Charente Vineyard Proprietors, Charente.
At the Masonic Hall, a fashionable crowd assembled
on Monday evening, to enjoy a .really excellent
concert; Misses Woolley and Pedleyand
were principal performers, and the liev. a. o.
Tovey, Herr Hermann, Mr. Joseph and
several ladles also helped, as well as the Cathedral
choir. It was for the Temperance Society, Dar-
linghurst.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Congregational Bazaar (Prot. Hall) B ec ’
Cyclists’ Union Ra es ; • • • "®o.
Juvenile Exhibition opens, Parramatta.. Dec. l».
The Wagga Wagga Races.
The meeting of the M.T.C., held last week at
Wagga, was sensational enough, if the sudden ana
late scratchings of favourites on the one hand, ana
the reported scratching of animals that were
destined to win, could make it so ; and the doings
of some nags, coupled with the clever management
of others, have been highly suggestive to lookers
on. The scratching of Jessie for the Cup was a
sudden as well as a heavy blow to a large number or
backers, as was also the disappearance of Soldier
Boy from the list of starters ; but there was, at all
events, after their withdrawal, the advantage that
no mistake could possibly occur through weak
arms, rotten reins or the dog on the
course. It was great fun in Sydney to
see one gentleman never tire of laying
Soldier Boy ; while another, who also knew what
was up, rushed about trying to “nark” his brother
in trade. The layer, however, having a start,
managed to do a good bit of business before the
warning angel ran up his tracks. Then, on the
morning of the race, a report was started that
The Drummer was scratched, but those specu-
lators who had the correct “office” backed the
horse, “ all in,” and so landed their money. There s
no doubt right-thinking sportsmen are glad that
Mr. Smart won the Cup; and many folks think
aloud that more than possibly the change in the
“ Rose and Brown ” stable, consequent on the
Archie Derby fiasco, was not a little answerable
for bringing The Drummer into a place he ought
most likely to have occupied several times, and
long ago. Quite right, trusting to Billy Yeomans!
On the principle of honest men coming by their
own, et cetera, I’m glad to believe that Mr. Smart
has won a good stake; and those who run may see
that Mr. Forrester’s interests made few mistakes—
winning every race either of them went for. Had
the Wagga week been before the Derby, such a
coup for these stakes would have been very pro-
blematical. It’s wonderful the curious reports
that go about in Sydney on a race day, despite
what we believe to be the stringent rules of the
Telegraphic Department. On Friday, the first
news about the Town Plate placed Jessie as the
winner, after which came the correct message, of
Stockdale; but, notwithstanding that this latter
appeared in the News, the up-country wires to
the leading daily told next morning of the victory
of Soldier Boy, who was scratched, as also had
been The Gem and Cunnarnujla, which the same
message placed second and third. Judging from
the way that scratching and backing was attended
to by certain stables, I should suppose the ring to
have had rather a rough deal on the banks of the
Murrumbidgee.
So far as outsiders can see, it was a stretch of
politeness” making the two-year-old filly Brown
and Rose carry within fourteen and eighteen
pounds respectively of such aged goods as Yately
and Soldier Boy for the Plying Handicap: and no
one could be astonished at her being beaten as she
was. I fancy, by this time, even the most long-
suffering and trustful stable-followers will be
quite full of backing Yately and Cunnamulla; and
much as one hears of what the latter “ can do if
he likes,” and “how he won’t race in public,” I
have long been of opinion that this accredited
“ flyer” was always a bit over-rated, and, for some
time past, has lost a good deal of whatever may
have been his original racing powers. Such
animals as Cunnamulla and Yately are liable to
bring a bad name to stables, and owners, and
trainers, without any real reason; and this seems
to be the only appreciable benefit from keeping
them in training, although the public will back
either or both of them on the smallest provoca-
tion. This makes them very dangerous instru-
ments in the hands of the ring, there being no
necessity for connivance on the parr of owners to
make well-known and once-popular horses great
favourites for whatever extensive betting race
may, for the moment, attract the attention of
speculators. The following list gives placea
horses and starters during the three days
First Day—Wednesday.
Sires Produce Stakes of 130 so vs.; 5 furlongs;
colts 8.7, fillies 8.5:— Liberty (Hales) 1, Invictus 2,
Metta 3. Rebus and Bijou ran. Won easily;
time, 1.6%.
Selling Stakes of 75 so vs.; 6 furlongs:—Thakam-
bau, 6.4,1; Beaumont, 6.11, 2, Royal Charlie, 8.13, 3.
Eight ran. Won easily; time, 1.16.
Wagga Gold <’.up, value 100 sovs., presented by
Messrs. J. Douglass and J. C. Loughnan, with 300
sovs. added; 1A mile:—Mr. A. F. Smart’s br h The
Drummer, by The Drummer—Minerva, 5 yrs., 9.3
(W. Yeomans), 1; Eva, 4 yrs., 6.5, 2: Robert the
Devil, 4 yrs., 6.10 and 9V£B>. over, 3. The Gem 9.0,
Cunnamulla 8.7, Yately 7.9, Coolabah 7.5, Terminus
6.12, Macaroni 6.5, Friendship 6.3, unplaced. Won
very cleverly; time, 2.38J4-
Hurdles, of 50 sovs.; twice round:—Idalia, 9.0,1;
Dundreary, 11.9, 2; Rosewood, 10.7, 3. Songster
and Royal Charlie ran. Won easily; time, 6min.
Maiden Plate of 75 so vs.; 1J4 mileHawkesbury,
by Maribyrnong—Aruma, 3 yrs., 7.7, It; The
Bohemian, 2 yrs., 5.12, If; Cygnet, 3 yrs., 7.12, 3.
Five started; a dead heat. Time, 2.14. Stakes
divided.
Second Day, Thursday.
Derby, of 100 so vs., H mile:—Hawkesbury 1,
Cumberoona2. Only two ran. Won easily, 2'45.
Two Vear Old Handicap, of 50 sovs., 6 furlongs:—
The Bohemian, 8.4,1; JLiberte, 8.8, 2; Invictus, 8.3,
3. Five runners. Won easily; time 1.16.
Grand Stand Handicap, of 100 sovs., 1 mile:—
Coolabah, 7.10, 1; Eva. 6.12, 2; Yately 3. Seven
started. Won easily; time P42i.
rlying Handicap, of 50 sovs.,6 furlongs:—Soldier
Boy, 8.12,1; Yately, 8.8, 2; Brown and Rose, 7.8, 3.
Five others ran. An easy win; time 1.16.
Ladies Bracelet, value75 sovs., 6 furlongs: Coun-
tryman (late Cetewayo), 10 0, 1; Chummy, 9.4, 2;
Liberte, 8.6, 3. Ten runners. Won easily; time
1.18
Third Day, Friday.
Mile Handicap of 60 sovs.—Brown and Rose, 7.6,
1; Paul, 8.3,2: Bonnie Bee, 7.10, 3. Hope started.
Won easily. Time, 1.46.
Prince ot Wales Stakes, 1 mile.—Paul, 7.2, 1;
Thakambau, 2; Omadhaun,3. Time, 1.44.
Town Plate of 150 sevs., 134 mile.—Stockdale, by
Yattendon —Stockdore, 9.6, 1; Friendship, 6.8, 2;
Eva, 7.10, 3. Ten ran, Won cleverly, it not easily.
Time, 2.11. ..
Steeplechase of 75 sovs., about 3 miles.—Idalia,
9.4,1; Songster, 11.7, 2; Wrangler, 10.2, 3. Crusader
and Juggler (fell) ran. Won very easily.
Final Flutter of 30 sovs., once round. —Macaroni,
7.6, 1; Kathleen Mavourneen, 6.10, 2; Eva, 8.4, 3.
Time, 2.33.
LATE SPORTING.
Bordeaux has gone to the stud, Sir William
Clarke having decided never to race this son of
Panic and Gironde again.
The well-bred two-year-old colt Coir was under
offer for some daysto Mr. A. P. Smart, and whether
that gentleman thought the price (1000 guineas)
too high or not we cannot say, but the offer was
not closed with, and Coir once more goes to
Mr. da Mestre’s horses, who returned from Mel-
bourne a few days ago, have gone home to Terrara,
where they will be prepared for their future
engagements. Navigator is among the lot.
Messrs. W. Forrester and Smart’s stable at
Warwick Farm has received two additions in
Countryman (late Cetewayo), and Beaumont, both
recent purchases at the late Wagga meeting. The
prices paid have not transpired.
Tattersall's committee held an investigation into
a dispute between two of its members on Monday
evening last, the particulars of which are as fol-
low:—Poole, a bookmaker, had laid Martini-Henry
for the late Victorian double to a backer of horses,
but, the latter not paying liabilities previously
contracted, the bet was declared off prior to the
Derby being run. The backer mentioned, not-
withstanding the scratching of the wager, hedged
£100 worth of it to backer No. 2, and claimed his
money, on the conclusion of the double event,
from Poole, who, had the transaction held good,
was responsible. Now Poole, in his turn, bad, a
few days previous to the V.R.C. meeting, backed
the “two Martinis” with a member of Tattersall’s
(one who makes a small book), and who, curiously
enough, is a son of backer No. 2; but because the
father didn’t receive his share of a scratched
wager—and he certainly had no right to expect it,
—the son refused to pay what was lost, and
hence the enquiry. The case was so far decided in
Poole’s favour that the defendant was given a
certain time to pay the amount of the claim to the
committee, who would then hold an enquiry into
the other cases, and allow non-members (the com-
plainants) to appear and state their grievances in
person. If this be done, Tattersall’s committee
will establish a bad precedent, and act in defiance
of th«ir rules.
The following amounts in stakes were won at
the late three days racing at Wagga. Mr. A. F.
Smart £522 and Cup, Mr. T Brown £180, Mr. O. Pop-
lin £120, Mr. M. Whitby £140, Mr. R. J. M’Alister
£60, Messrs. Hillas and Pearce £30, Mr. A. F. Sulli-
van £25, Mr. J. Brewer £10. The usual toasts were
proposed and responded to, and Mr. Robert Sutton,
the well-known Victorian bookmaker, promised a
subscription of 50 guineas towards the next Spring
meeting. Mr. A. F. Smart provided unlimited
champagne.
The appended scratchings have been made:
Tattersall’s Cup -Albury, Belmont, Gloucester, The
Gem, Despot, Martini-Henry, Blue and White, Wal-
langra, Sweet William, Lecture (dead), Boscawen.
Summer Cup—Albury, Gloucester, Despot, Mar-
tini-Henry, Blue and White. Anniversary Handi-
cap—Albury. All A.J.C. engagements—Belmont.
December Stakes—Bareface and The Jewel.


World-wide Honors to St. Jacobs Oil.
THE Great German Remedy, ST. JACOBS OIL,
stands honoured with the highest distinction
ever paid to a medicine. This is not only the case
in this country, but abroad everywhere. At the
New Zealand International Exhibition, 1883 it re-
ceived the magnificent First Prize Medal, together
with the Highest Diploma for being, according to
critical tests, the Best Pain Curing and Healing
Remedy known to mankind. In this connection a
few testimonials from distinguished men are here
given as an evidence of the world-wide popularity
of ST. JACOBS OIL. r
Opinions of Prominent Australians.
C. C. COHEN, Esq., Mullens-street, Balmain, Syd-
ney.— 1 One bottle of St. Jacobs Oil cured me
of a contracted leg of three years’ standing.”
Sworn to before Charles Kahlo, Esq., United
States Consul.
DAVID SCOTT, Esq., of the firm of Messrs. Boyle
and Scott, Cricket and Football Depot, Mel-
bourne, Victoria.—" St. Jkcobs Oil relieved me
at once of pain. I comment it to all footballers
and cricketers.”
W. P. BOOTH, Esq., Thomas-street, Balmain.—
“Nothing like St. Jacobs Oil, in my opinion,
for a valuable remedy.”
A. ADAMS, Esq., City View, Ryde, Sydney, N.S.W..
—“ St. Jacobs Oil cured me of a sprained knee,,
and enabled me to walk about in four days.”
WALTER HAYNES, Esq., Manager for A. Church—
wood, York-street, Sydney, N.S.W.—“ Acknow-
ledges St. Jacobs Oil as an extraordinary
remedy.”
J. R. DREWETT, Esq., Town Buyer for Messrs.
S. Hoffnung and Co., Pltt-street, Sydney,
N.S.W. —“ I Took on St. Jacobs Oil as a univer-
sal panacea for all kinds of pain.”
A cash reward of one hundred pounds will be
paid by the Charles A. Vogeler Company of Bal-
timore, Maryland, United States of America, pro-
prietors of St. Jacobs Oil, or by their accredited
local representatives, to any person producing
proof to the effect that the testimonials published
by them in regard to St. Jacobs Oil are not strictly
genuine.
St. Jacobs Oil, the great Gorman remedy, con-
quers pain. Sold by Druggists, Chemists, and
Medicine Dealers throughout the world. Price in
New South Wales, Half-a-«rown a bottle. Direc-
tions for using in eleven languages.
ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney,
Wholesale Depot for New South Wale*
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HORBHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping-
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, rebeves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief;
a small bottle often cures. Ask for ,r AR!f old's’
and get it; spurious imitations are sometlrr. j
offered.
Nowhere perhaps has the dentist’s art obtained
such high excellence as in Sydney. Certainly we
are in no sense behind any other city. Visitors to
Sydney might, to test this, visit the establishment
of Messrs. Adolphe Gabriel and Company, 18 Wyn-
yard Square, two doors from Pfahlert's Hotel
Here the manufacture of every essential in the
profession is carried on. At the rear of the surgery
u a compact little factory where all the requisites
for supplying every dental defect in the human
mouth are made. Messrs. Gabriel and Co. (whose
only address is as above) are always pleased to
show their specimens ef artitolaJ teeth te those
interested. There being two firms of the same
name in the Square, patients will oblige by paying
particular attention to the Christian name, Adolph*
181 ioor * rauuorvi
Woman Items
A lady in Qundagai was handling a flshmg-
rod lately and the hook caught in her scalp. The
skin had to be taken away before the hook could
be taken out. This is a reversal of the ordinary
course of things—as a rule when a woman goes
out with her flshing-rod a man is hooked.
It is no concern of mine what men wear,”
writes Clara Belle, “but I must be permitted to
say, casually, that it makes me sick to see a man
with a bracelet on his It was at the theatre*
and he was a pretty sissy young fellow, in an even-
ing suit that evidently owed much of its shaped"
ness to padding on the shoulders, if not to lacing
at the waist. The bracelet was a wideband of gold,
and instead of being ashamed, he seemed proud t o
exhibit his badge of effeminacy. Women like to
see men in neat attire, but they have an abounding
contempt for fops of doubtful sex—neither young
men nor young women.”
Well, now, only think of it. Here’s Car-
go ab Mahy angry again, just as we were begin-
ning to think she had found all the peace this
venal earth affords at last. But it was no to be.
The last time Mary was put out, it was because a
lawyer called round with a club, and the manager
of the Chronicle not being on hand, he darkly
hinted that that lady had him concealed in her
latch-key. The person with the club was, how-
ever, routed somehow (wo forget how), and once
more the air of Carcoar was peaceful and serene.
The trouble with Mary (our lowest bow), now, is
an attack, “scurrilous, untruthful, unjust and
unscrupulous,” (we wonder not to find “ das-
tardly ” here—dear old “dastardly I”) in the Blat-
ney Advocate, in which the writer says:—* I
submit that the action of the Chronicle in this
instance is in perfect harmony with every word
and every sentiment it has given expression to
since it commenced its ill-fated and miserable
career.” The row, it seems, is over a lecture by
one J. Lithgow Cobb—on what subject, it’s strange
to say, does not appear; but the fair editress (for
she is fair), shows that she is equal to a dozen such
occasions. Read this, from Mary’s dainty pen and
quake:—”Notwithstanding his nom de plume,
* Cynic’s ’ identity is as well known to us as to the
authorities, and in due time—when the end of his
little tether has been reached—we will pull him
up, metaphorically, with a thud that will make
him imagine he is studying astronomy through
Lord Ross’ ten-thousand-horse-power telescope.”
There are nearly two columns of this bewitching
writing, but nothing more about the telescope.
We don’t wonder that Carcoar is proud or its
editress. We have long envied the Chronicle
the possession of such a treasure. If she’d only
come down here and fix up things for us, we
would see that the old man got his “ little eight,’’
and do her share of the work with the piping-cord
and bodkins.
* * •
A very curious slander case was recently
decided in Cincinnati, when Miss Belle English
sued her lather for saying she was not his daughter,
bhe was born over twenty years ago in a private
hospital, and afterwards placed in the hands of a
foster-mother. The father denied the paternity,
and, strangely, the mother does also, and she
ought to know something of the case. To Miss
Belle, the decision of the jury meant either legiti-
macy or a brand of the shame not her own. And
they gave her a verdict of £500, indicating that
the defendant was really her father, and had de-
nied it for slanderous purposes—
A WATERING-PLACE FAREWELL.
What he says: Good-
bye.
What he does not say:
There have been times
when I would swear that
you cared for me, but I
know how you have
treated other fellows,
and I'll be hanged if my
scalp shall decorate your
wigwam.
What she says : Good-
bye
What she does not say:
We have had such lovely
times together, and
after all that has hap-
pened you calmly shake
hands and go as if —well,
men are brutes.
/
Lady Gay Paget, who was married recently to
Lord Windsor, a young nobleman with the com-
fortable income of eighty thousand pounds ster-
ling a year, was accompanied on her bridal tour
by a white cat. A novelty in wedding costumes
was also exhibited at this notable marriage.
While the bride was attired in the richest satm,
and displayed a wealtn of pearls and diamonds,
Lord Windsor wore a morning suit of mixed
grey and white tweed, without the slightest
approach to what is called “smartness.”
A lady recently filled her lamp with gasoline, and
since then she has not benzine It is after a
woman has emerged from a salt-water bath that
figures don’t lie—Socrates began the study of
music only when he was sixty. We commend this
fact to the young lady who lives in the opposite
house, and has begun practising the “ Maiden’s
Prayer” before she is twenty. ..Theyoung wife
thus wired to her father: “Dear John died this
morning at ten. Loss fully covered by insurance.
... Good illustration of anti-climax. In a bio-
graphical notice of the daisy of “Italia Kedenta,”
the D.T., after telling us that she is a woman of
high mental capacity, an accomplished linguist,
and the po*sessor of artistic tastes of a high order,
goes on to remark that she plays the piano
and the mandolin. No wonder Humbert
deems the latch-key a divine institution
At the Woman's Congress held at Chicago, Julia
Holmes-Smlth of Illinois read a paper on “ Mourn-
ing Garb, ” in which she urged that dolorous weeds
of woe were unwholesome, mentally and physi-
cally, We are prepared to go with Julia down to
(be ground..,.He was a susceptible up-country
post-office clerk, and sbe a maiden about to post a
letter to her “ mash.” “ Is it too heavy for 2d. ? ”
she asked appealingly. “ Much,” he sighed. Then
she opened the envelope, and having extracted
four conversation-lozenges, a bouquet of crushed
flowerets, and a junk of hair resembling tow, the
billet was reduced to regulation weight The
“ unco guid ” of New England (U.S.) have lately
run in a Mormon elder and two of his sealed wives
for polygamy. If thefellow had only called himself
a Christian, and dallied with a score of unsealed
ones, he’d never have been interfered with
This is the most brilliant matchmaking exploit on
record. The eldest daughter of a New York
society lady, after touring the Continent, found
herself in gay Paris surrounded by admirers.
Even after ticking off those with a flaw, she still
had left two, both so handsome, agreeable, well-
bred and rich, that she could not possibly decide
which to favour. 80 she wrote to her dear mamma
in New York, and put the whole case. Ten davs
after, she received the following cablegram :
“Hold both till I come; sail to-day.” The next
steamer brought the New York mamma, and her
second daughter, a pretty eighteen year old, just
from school. On arrival, the old lady at once took
the helm of affairs, and steered so deftly through
the dangerous waters of society's whirlpool that
two months later she was rewarded by seeing
both daughters married on the same'day....
Sarah Bernhardt claims that she got married be-
cause matrimony was the only thing in life that
she had left untried. After her marriage she in-
dulged in divorce for the novelty of the thing...
After marriage.—Wife: “What are you doing,
dear?” Husband in a reflective attitude: “ Think-
ing.” Wife: “Are you thinking of your little
wifey, love 7” Husband: “ No, Iwas thinking of
something ” —The demand for kittens’ heads has
become so important in millinery, that cat-breed-
ing is now a regular business in Paris Dion
Boucicault says that Mrs. Langtry asked him:
“ Am I as beautiful as Mary Anderson ? ” “No,”
he replied; “ you have a beautiful bust and waist,
and that is all.”—Daughter of the boarding-
house: “Which instrument do you prefer—the
violin or the piano ?” “ The violin ; it can be
more easily thrown out the window.” Lady
Anne Blount, daughter of the Bari of Lovelace
and his late Countess, Ada Augusta Byron, Is said
to be a speaking likeness of her grandfather, Lord
Byron. When Lady Anne was presented to the
Queen, the latter kissed her, saying, as she did so,
“ I do that for the love I bear your ancestor, the
poet whom I most love.” Her Majesty was think-
ing that Byron, were he alive, could do poetical
justice to the late J. Brown.... There is dude-lc joy
in Hongkong. Barmaids are to be re-instituted
there. Two de comptnir, according to the
N.C. Matl, are to garnish each hotel At a fancy
dress ball lately held in Sydney—Blanche to Kate:
“How charming that Highland costume is—see
, there, dear, that nice-looking fellow with the
dicolleU knees.” — In 1881, in England. 91 persons
reached the centenarian rung in the ladder of life,
their ages running from that to 112. Of these 66 or
nearly 75 per cent, were women. Which goes to
show that in England at least woman is by no
means “ the weaker vessel.”
It Is reported that when the Earl of
Goosebery got Harry M'Quade Into a quiet corner
at Sackvllle Reach, he squeezed as much of
Harry’s right thumb as he could clutch hold of,
and said—“You are a member I respect. You are
silent.” Then Henry went away to another still
more secluded spot, and was observed sitting on a
log and scratching his head with a rake, for half
an hour, plunged in the most profound perplexity.
Constable Fox, of Cobargo, went last week
to TilbaTllba to find if the local blacks know any-
thing about the Lament Young mystery. It seems
to us rather late in the day to make such an in-
quisition. Surely all the coast blacks in the Ber-
magul and adjoining districts ought to have been
pumped long ago by the Force of all they knew in
connection with the matter. It is not known how
the Evening News came to make the statement
that four persons had been arrested for the murder
of Mr. Young and his party.
In the dreary land watered by the Cock-
fighter’s Creek, there is a town where a court of
petty sessions occasionally dispenses a rude
hucolic sort of justice. Before the dread tribunal
a fellow was brought the other day charged with
making use of obscene language. The Nupkins
who was seized of the case, fined the miscreant
(who had been 46 hours in the lock-up) in the sum
of half-a-crown, and then cautioned him to leave
the place in these words of doom—“ I abolish you
from the district.”
“The goal of thyme" The soup pot.
During the heavy rains which have re-
cently been flooding- Melbourne, a citizen, well
protected from the weather by macintosh and
umbrella, met, close to his home, a friend who had
been “ out in it all,” and was drenched to the
skin. An invitation to come in, get a change of
clothes, have dinner, and —during the interval thus
elapsing—have his own clothes dried, was gladly
accepted. The host took his friend up to his own
bedroom, laid out a suit of under and upper cloth-
ing for him, and, not requiring anything dry of the
kind himself, left him to make himself presentable.
His singlet was just over his head. It alone stood
between him and bare existence. Then the door
of the room opened, and a sweet voice said “ I am
glad to see, dear, you are taking off your wet
clothes. Don’t be long. Dinner’s waiting.” And
so she tripped down, warbling “ Robert, toi que
j'aime ” and fainted on seeing her husband con-
ning the evening paper in the arm-chair. When
the stranger came down, he was told the lady of
the house was suffering from a sick headache, and
would not be able to appear. Later on, there was
a family dos-d-dos, and the husband was warned to
bring no more wet gentlemen home without giving
due notice.
Writes a Melbourne correspondent :-“We
think Sir W. J. Clarke right, and that when he
determined to give a select ball in the Town Hall
the other night he was quite Justified In using the
Melbourne police to keep the approaches clear.
Three Governors were expected, and ever so
much rank and beauty, and the illustrious baronet,
with a long acquaintance with Melbourne customs,
anticipated with reason that the flags in Colllns-
street would be crowded with a mighty throng to
gaze on the select dignities. Some are trying to
raise a great row about it. One gentleman who
assures us that it was his inexpressible good
fortune—his beatitude, in fact—to once stand
within two yards of Her Most Gracious Majesty,
felt painfully shocked when a bobby refused to
let hi u stand within a dozen yards of the Town
Hall entrance. “ Move an,” cried the constable,
“ and stap yer jaw 1” A host of other gentlemen
had to be similarly shifted. No doubt, looking at
it from the standpoint of these gentlemen, it does
seem cruel on the part of the aristocratic Clarke
to damp the ardour of the affection which the
upper-middle class of Melbourne entertain far
anything that has rubbed against Her Majesty, or
against anything Her Majesty rubbed against.
These gentlemen had surrendered the pleasures
of the billiard-room and of the neighbouring
hotel bars, and, all a-flame with love and
loyalty, had elbowed each other about on these
flags for a weary hour, hoping that when midnight
came they would be able to dream of the visions
“ from near the Throne ” which it was their bliss
to see. It was cruel, then, to shift them. But,
looking at them from the standpoint of Sir W. J.,
the shift was imperatively necessary. For Sir
W. J. knows, among a few other things, that
colonists whose loyalty cirries them into these
gawky demonstrations of love and reverence are
not very dependable persons. As a rule, they are
looking out for a chance of borrowing something,
or of stealing something. Among the 550 select
personages, there were sura to be some valuable
trinkets and not a few costly chains, and Sir
William and his friends, who would be only too
willing to receive the loyal homage of Melbourne
toadies at another time, acted quite right, on the
occasion of that ball, in employing the police to
disperse the loyalists.”
Mr. Andrew Harper is President of the
Presbyterian Ladies’ College, in Melbourne, Now,
it has often seemed to us that that is a position we
could fill to the satisfaction of ourselves and every-
body concerned. We seldom pass the beautiful
enclosed grounds without meditating on how the
eternal fitness of things is often set at nought in
this world, and how a power of the existence of
which a man is conscious is often doomed to a
mute, Inglorious effacement, through having no
congenial sphere for its manifestation and devel-
opment. We, in the middle of a ring of sweet girl
graduates, unfolding the mysteries of linguistic
science, and teaching the ruby lips to trip through
the conjugation of the verb Amare, would, we
fancy, be something for the sculptor to dream
over, and the painter to get mad about. We
should never tire of standing in class, with two
dozen bright eyes riveted on ours, two dozen red
lips saying what we say, hair black as the raven,
hair shining like gold, flaxen hair, brown hair, and
our for-ever-beloved red hair, waving backwards
and forwards over little pink ears, and touching,
like the tips of humming birds’ wings, the swan-
Uke throats, and shoulders, white as Parian
marble. We’d never tire of it. The sculptor
could sculpt us, the painter could paint us,
and in the galleries of the world staring eyes could
admire our beatified effigy. But that is not our
luck. It is Mr. Andrew Harper’s. And on the
principle that no man knows a good thing until
he has lost it, Mr. Harper is hurrying to find out
how enviable his position is. He it getting in
among the dust and din of theology, and in the
whirlpool of a billowy Presbyterianism has set
himself to analyse the few drops of water that
have settled on his own brain. Alas, already the
cry is up that our President is a heretic, and that
the future mothers of Victoria are in dangerous
hands I Now we—if it were we—if only it were we
that were President, the future mothers of Vic-
toria would be safe. All the water in the world
flowing about the top of our brain would not lead
us to endanger our position. Our heart would
forbid it. But Harper recks not. A few drops of
theological liquid drowns the voice of his heart,
and drowns the pleadings of his plaintive doves.
Ah, why is Harper there ? Why isn’t it we ?
Here’s a hint, now, for the Government
Printer and the officials who supply him w ith
copy, as also for the local newspaper proprietor.
By dropping “C.M.G.,” “Bart.,” *Kt.,” “Hon.,”
“ J.P.,” and so on, an immense annual saving could
bo effected. Why, on the Alphabetical Professor
Smith alone, with his “ Hon.,” “M.D.,” “LL.D.,”
“ C.M.G.,” “ F.R.S.,” “ P.G.8.,” and so on, the
saving in type-setting would tot up to hundreds
per annum.
When you come into the presence of Mr.
Patrick Holt, and hear the sweet tones of his
silvery voice, your attention is at once arrested.
As we saw and listened to tim the other night in
the Bourke-street Coffee Palace, wonder, reverence
and affection were read in the faces «f all in the
room. Mr. Holt is one of those true-hearted
philanthropists whose minds are luminous with
schemes for the elevation of the race, and whose
souls are unsullied with the slightest trace of self-
seeking. The age seems to be peculiarly rich in
these embodiments of noble impulse and chival-
rous design, and the atmosphere of Melbourne
seems eminently suitable for bearing the weight
of the fluttering emotions. Holt, therefore, could
not but flutter. The door of his bosom was open
and forth winged the birds of virtue; and eyes’
were dazzled with variegated plumage, and ears
musically tickled with warblings more divine than
Sankey’s, more inspiring than Mrs. Hampson’s,
and more searching and permanently affecting
than are those of the seraphic Mrs. Major
Barker, Holt had been In the New Hebrides.
Their poor people, sunk in ignorance, he pitied, he
wept over. His tears were hot and his tones sad,
as he told how low down in the scale of civilisation
they lived and moved. They knew nothing of the
higher heaven—they knew nothing of the deeper
hell—next to nothing. Was not that a shame, aye,
a burning shame f How could we, like cowards,
set hero at ease, without stretching out a hand,
without sticking out a leg ? Among the enemies
of Truth, ignorance was the fellest and awfulest.
Should we not fight this gigantic slayer ? We re-
membered what Thackeray said. “If the fight
for the Truth is on,” said the author of “Pen-
dennis,” “and you He on your balcony and smoko
your pipe, out of the noise and the danger, you
had better have died, or never have been at aU,
than such a sensual coward.” We were stirred.
We would lift up the people of the New Hebrides.
W© would stretch our hand and stick out our leg;
but, “ How, oh, how—where, oh where, O
Master?” we cried. “Well,” said Apostle Holt,
“a friend of mine named Glisson is on the Island
of Afate. It’s a fruitful island. He has his eye on
10,000 acres there. Now, if we make up a capital
of £35,030, my friend, Glisson, will sell out for
£13,000. We can work the estate for £10,000. And
here are facts and figures—they’U show you we
can make £15,000 a year out of the venture. Come,
look I” WeU, qu’eat-ce qui vous fait rire 1 Holt Is
an Apostle.
Old men, tottering round from rheuma-
tism, kidney trouble or any weakness wUlbemade
almost new by using Hop Bitters freely. Read.
FLOWERS.
I gave my love a flower
And she placed it in her breast;
She blushed crimson as its petals,
As her passion she confessed.
And I knew no breath of Heaven
Had o’er fairer blossom blown.
Than this blushing little rosebud
1 had gathered tor my own.
I gave my love a flower,
And 1 placed it on her breast,
But ’twas waxen in its whiteness,
As the brow my lips caressed;
And I breathed a prayer to Heaven—
That the spirit thither flown,
In the bright and happy future,
Might be mingled with my own.
“BULLETIN” FASHIONS.
For the Yachting Season.


CRIBBAGE.
Where there’s a will there’s a way to con-
test it,
“Is that gentleman a friend of yours?’’
" Oh, no; he’s my husband.”
“You cannot lessen the size of a woman’s
waist without stunting her brains.” This is why
a girl rolls her eyes and looks so idiotic while being
squeezed.
Dink pooty veil of a man dot vill stood by
you vhen you vas in shtormy vedder. Schwarums
of inskects vill shtay around you vhen der sun
shines out.
Memo, for politicians.—When on the steal,
go for a big steal—and call it compensation:—
Iscariot blundered in selling for thirty,
And all the Jews wondered that Judas had
blundered;
By asking a hundi’edhis crime were less dirty,
Iscariot blundered in selling for thirty.
This is what it will come to shortly
“ Mr. requests th pleasure of your company
on Saturday next at his trial for adultery at the
Supreme Court. R.S.Y.P.”
A horse baulked with a man, the other
day, and he sat there in his buggy for nine hours
before the animal moved on. He was a house
Jiainter working by the day, and would have put
n another hour if necessary.
A puff of an uncommon kind was given
recently by a bucolic contemporary. It said :—
Ohmer and Wilson s hearse presented a very attrac-
tive appearance at the funeral of Mrs. , on
Friday last.”
ARMED TO THE TEETH.
O Widow Carey, you’ve an awful deal
Of woman in you that your words reveal.
’Tls right, I grant, the assassin you should hate,
Whose hand reduced you to the single state;
But is it fair to say, in wordy strife
"O’Donnell and the person called his wife?”
He frankly slew your lord in sudden heat,
And stretched him painlessly at his own feet.
Mark how his harmless lady writhes beneath
The weapon you conceal behind your teeth I
A woman who had been blind for three
years suddenly recovered her sight .and declared
she had been cured by prayer. Strange that she
should have gone without prayer for three long
years. Some people will try every other remedy
before trying the prayer cure.
Here are a few samples of the cheerful
and appreciative notices with which the poor
player is indulged by one of the New York papers:
—Jefferson has revived the old farce of “Lend Me
Five Shillings.” The fun of it is that Joe, who is
a miracle of meanness, never lent five cents—with-
out charging interest on the loan. Even his own
relatives have to pay for “accommodation” and
leave a pledge when they “ strike ” this champion
miser of the stage for a little help — Poor, dear old
Modjeska has got*as far as Philadelphia. Her hus-
band, the bogus count and Dutch ex-reporter, is
still with her, carrying her poodle under one arm
and her cash-box under the other. It is rumoured
that she will retire into the Old Ladies’ Home
on the first of next January, if she lives so long....
Mike Rentz is organising another com aination of
lewd nudities for the road. The facility with which
Mike evades police interference is almost as re-
markable as the long-lived patience with which
countrymen suffer themselves to be swindled by
his pigeon posters into going to see a lot of
Dover-street graduates practising on the stage
the same arts they used to employ in sailors’
dance houses. If the artless denizen of
Oshkosh wants to see a Rentz - Santley
artiste in her budding phase, let him hang around
after ten o’clock of a night in the neighbourhood of
Catherine ferry As if the American stage were
not sufficiently overburdened with played-out
old women of its own, that long-nosed and ex-
hausted Italian, Ristori, is coming back for one
more “ farewell ” tour. Of course, she will play
in English—or in what passes for English in the
highest Dago circles—and will be supported by an
American company as usual. If she brings her
poor old addlepated husband, the Marquis, with
her, she must take better care of him than she did
on her last tour in this country, during which time
His Excellency was arrested at least a dozen times
for Of course he was as crazy as
a bedbug, but it Ristori had been a woman of
sense and delicacy she would rather have hired a
keeper for him than let him make such a disgust-
j ing exhibition of his infirmities.
Certain good people are disagreeably
affected in their immortal parts by the incident of
a contiguous Chinaman minifying the feet of his
wee girly-girl by the stress of abundant bandaging,
after the fashion of his kind. It is in contempla-
tion to move immediately upon his works with a
writ of error, two mandamusses, a suit in replevin,
an action in the nature of a quo warranto, a
number of pleas of confession and avoidance—all
the terrors of the law. To the backing of this
formidable aggression moves up a solid phalanx of
Christian dames and damosels so constricted at the
waist that the pressure of their viscera keeps their
tongues eternally on the wag.
Here is the very latest. On the inward
voyage of a newly-arrived steamer, a man died,
and the funeral was fixed for an early hour next
morning, the captain, of course, to read the burial
service. At the appointed hour the vessel was
hove to, and all hands came aft to attend the
solemn rite 5. The sheeted and shotted body lay
on its plank, all heads were uncovered, all hearts
brimming with emotion; but no skipper appeared.
After waiting a long time, the surgeon under-
took to read the service, and advancing to the
head of the corpse, prayer-book in hand, began:
“ I am the resurrection and the life.” Tardy
Skipper (emerging from below): “I’ll be d d if
you are. I am the resurrection and the life.”
There are in Sydney many hairdressers’
establishments at which you can get your ears
gashed and your nose cut off for sixpence. And
so many Waterloo veterans are dying in all parts
of the country just now at the advanced age of
one hundred and five years, that a man under
eighty-seven feels bashful about going into a
barber’s shop.
A Surry Hills soap-maker has, we see,
been sending to the Sydney D.T. samples of his
wares. It is alleged that the “ newspaper fellow,”
on receiving the soap, bit a piece off and spat it
out again, as it didn’t taste nice. However, with
a view to finding out what it was, he called a meet-
ing of the staff, one of whom urged that it should
be cut into slices and fried. A member of the
inquest staff subsequently advanced the theory
that soap was merely solidified soup—so, at
latest, it had been unanimously decided to try
boiling it.
A good prophet.—1100 per shent.
“ Why are you so distant ?” asked a tramp
of a beef-steak in the restaurant window.
Who was the body-servant to the thinnest
Eerson mentioned in the Bible ? The valet of the
hadow of Death.
A burglar has been badly shot in a far
Western township. Burglars ha, o a tough time
in places where there are no police.
Economical reasons James Service ie-nores
In making Tom Bolam Inspector ot Si ores;
The man may be perfectly fit to contro 1 ’em,
Yet the service requires an Inspector of Bolam.
The papers entitled “Votes and Proca edings
of the N.S.W. Legislative Assembly” mark a new
departure in comic literature. The document for
Tuesday, 30th November, was en route to the coal-
hole when Mr. M'Blhone’s name caught our eye.
He asked three questions about the tli alia public
school. He wanted to know whether the Minister
for Education was aware that “ the teacher of the
public school at Uralia, on or about the 19th of
October last, marched the whole of the publie
school children, amounting to about 150 in number,
through the town to a Wesleyan tea meeting,
when they were addressed by a Wesleyan local
preacher named Leece ?” —and, if so, “what steps.
If any, will he take to punish and degrade the
teacher (Mr. Small) for his conduct in the matter
referred to ?” Mr. Reid said he had no intention
of throwing the pedagogue into a dungeon. He
decided to let him alone for three reasons. In the
first place, the kids were not marched through
the town; secondly, they didn’t attend a Wesleyan
tea meeting; and, lastly, a person named Teece
did—not address them. This reminds us of the
French lexicographers who described a crab as
“ a small red fish that walked backwards.” Cuvier,
to whom they showed the result of their labours,
innocently observed “You are quite right, gen-
tlemen, with three important exceptions—the crab
is not a fish: it’s not even red; and, whether bent
on love or duty, it worries along sideways.”
No family should be without it; the most
careful and abstemious will now and then have a
twinge of stomachic pain; no remedy is more re-
liable, none more infallible than Wolfe *
Schnapps.
MESSRS. FARMER AND CO.’S NEW WAREHOUSES, PITT AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.


M
Prepared according 1 to the directions o. Prol.
E. N. Hereford, ef Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED FOR
DYSPEPSIA, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
JMPAIHED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA. WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY, & o.
W No Danger can Attend its Use.
Nervous Depression from Overwork.
Sluggish Circulation and Growing Chil-
dren.
Sandusky, O., May 21,18*0,
I have used your Acid Phosphate and can pro-
nounce it a very valuable addition. I find it use-
ful and beneficial in nervous dyspepsia, nervous
depression following overwork and anxiety, as well
as the gastric derangements. Where there is
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation, a dull,
heavy head, it is of undoubted value. Fast grow-
ing children require this valuable addition.
W. R, PAGE, M.D.
Liver and Kidney Derangements.
Boston, Mass., May 18, 1880.
In regard to the Hereford's Acid Phosphate, I
have used it very extensively, and with the most
remarkable success.
I give it in dyspepsia and In all oases where there
is derangement of the liver and kidneys. With
my patients it has agreed wonderfully.
O. G. CILLEY, M.D.
Nerve Tonic.
A. 8. Carpenter, M,D., Keene, N.H., says :
Hereford's Acid Phosphate is a valuable medi-
cine. I have taken it myself, and for several
?ears prescribed it for my patients, when suffering
rom indigestion or innervation of the digestive
organs, and always with satisfaetory results. It is
a good nerve tonic, and in some cases of morbid
urine, ‘ it acts like a charm,’ producing the desired
result. It is pleasant to the taste, acceptable to the
stomach, and is, in my opinion, an excellent and
valuable compound.”
]Can be borne by the moat Sensitive
Stomachs.
Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 1880.
Hereford’s Acid Phosphate, in eleganoe of com-
position, stands unrivalled, ft is pleasant to the
taste, and can be borne by the most sensitive
stomach. Have prescribed it with marked benefit
in indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms an
excellent substitute for lemon juice, and as such
will furnish a refreshing drink for the sick.
A. L. HALL, M.D.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
Oil;
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
44 It Works like a Charm.”
It is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches fire. It cures
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Bruises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an internal remedy it tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Throat, and Dyp-
therla.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use in
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Seld by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers la
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-RMexham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported into this country, and have
gained throughou tthe colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-seleoted and
thereughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the troa-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. 1
leather, and the upholstery is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, ell, and varnishes are
used In their finish
BECAUSE they are eaoh and all built under special
instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage builders in America,
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say they are thi
BEST.
American Carriage Emporium,
WTNTAHD SQUARE, STDNET.
BARRON .MGXHAM * CO..
fco:e Agents
SOLILOQUY OF AN AUSTRALIAN
QUINTESSENTIAL.
(SECUNDUM EVANGELIUM LUDOVICUM
FIGUIER.)
[ Vide— “The Day After Death.”]
Note.—At a time of such broadcast scepticism
about the existence and destiny of the human
soul as that which we are at present passing
through, the following soliloquy of a spirit
that once dwelt amongst us, and who by
several of his expressions can be identified by
many, may provq of some interest. Besides
being a contribution to psychological know-
ledge, and a proof positive that there are
essences higher than ours, it is also of ethical
value, inasmuch as it indicates very plainly by
what methods the higher states of spiritual per-
fection may be attained.
Back, back! What a succession of miraculous
existences lies away below me I Bursting up
through time and space, reveaUng themselves
from abysses of Ught and darkness, the almost
countless variations of this transcendental being
now spread themselves before me. Over beyond
is the great glowing luminous sun. This vapor-
ous diaphonous drapery which robes my soaring
soul feels the burning breath of the photosphere.
In a few more minutes the last secret shall be
sounded. I shall have risen to a land of cool and
tranquil rest, or been swallowed up in a gaseous
liquid mass. Not even here is there certainty as
to the constitution of that apparently molten
body. But, almost stripped of matter as I am, I
am troubled with no perplexities about those
subjects which once, in lower spheres, engaged so
much of my attention. Had I ascended to this
aerial world with the flesh and blood of my
earthly life, I could promise myself nothing,
in the event of the sun’s being a cool and
tranquil land, but a position of never-ending im-
mobility. Even a dog, tranferred from earth,
would be thirty times his present weight upon the
surface of that huge sphere; and man, transferred,
would want a buffalo’s strength to stir himself.
But debates about weight are ended. When I
pass from this last air-tunic I am a spirit above
all laws of which there is human cognisance. I
gee down now, ever so far, to the beginning of
things, where I also was. Most certainly in the
beginning was protoplasm. Most certainly from
protoplasm we all came. Touch it. Some of it
may still be found in the North Atlantic. Huxley
dredged up some of it not long ago. Hceokel got
some of it in a well at Jena. When I lived, I found
some of it in a waterhole on the Diamantina. It is
a tenacious, glairy liquid, with a consistence like
the white of a boiled egg. Watch it beneath a
microscope—it moves, waves traverse it. These
motions are in consequence of some stimulus
exerted upon it from outside, but acting upon an
internal irritability such as no other liquid pos-
sesses. It has life, it has a core at the centre,
it eats. Streams run out, seize, return. The
red corpuscles of the human blood swim in two
nearly colourless liquids, one of which is com-
posed of small corpuscles, and the other of large.
They can be fed with red food, and in some cases
they devour the red corpuscles. It'is the same in
vegetable life, and wherever found they are sub-
ject to anaesthetics. Allman has put the sensitive
plant asleep with ether. Watercress has also gone
asleep when it smelled it, and awoke on its re-
moval. Protoplasm was, then, in the beginning
and all that we see and know are evolutions from
it. The Internal Irritability is the Great Un-
known. In one cell, it and the Great Unknown
abode. I and all things were in that cell. I and
all things participated in the process of mono-
gony, gemination, polysporogony.and amphygony.
Why being should not have made its initial move-
ment by partial monogony, and why it has limited
itself to amphygony, are questions which even the
highest Arch-Mind fails to clearly find an answer
to. That revelation is, however, near.
But bh 1 what labyrinths I passed through I
what hosts of doubts and tears stood sentinel on
my way I Names, names! I shuddered at Death
as if it were the door to Night. I clung to Life, as
if it were possible for it to slip from me. Fear is
the deepest and most abiding sensation in con-
scious existence. When I was an ara, which was
like your jellyfish, I slunk from a sunbeam in the
water. When I was a joss, which is like your crab,
I dodged warily about a channel of stones for
days and nights, fearing I knew not what. It is
given to quintessentials, like me, to look back
now, and now I know that I had nothing to dread.
I had only to obey Nature, and obedience Is best
when it works out its passions and emotions
without fear.
How clear is the retrospect from this planetary
ether; but alas, how dim the prospect for the
misty eyes below! Around the sphere called
Human is the dimmest haze of all. In that haze
are heard the saddest cries. The beings are so
highly developed that now and then their eyes
break in upon the radiance of far-off lights, and
their ears catch the echoes of the music of higher
spheres. They know they will sometime come
among these lights and tones; but, under-
standing not Nature’s way, they pray and
groan, and cry, and lose the present in a bootless,
because premature, quest. When I was a trepan,
which is like your monkey, I used to think no tree
high enough, no sun bright enough. But now I
know that Nature’s laws are inexorable, and that
her scale of ascent is graduated, not by a being’s
wishes, hurriedly and in spasms, but by a fixed
canon of general progress, slowly and without
jolt.
The first great tumult in my blood, the tumult
which forecasted if some of the darkness, most
of the splendour, of my aftertime, was when I
emerged into the sphere of the Human. That is
an all-important epoch in the life of the Quintessen-
tial. Emerging from the lower order, I became an
Irishman. Looking back on that epoch now, and
seeing the heights to which I have climbed since,
I esteem that promotion as the cardinal point of
my higher destiny. It was then I awoke to the
consciousness of a wide career; to the fact that I
was differentiated, at all events to a small extent,
from the brute circle. There was a good deal of
the brute still about me, no doubt, but I felt
that I was a Man ; that I had begun to
be a Man ; that the ways of wisdom, and
purity, and truth, and nobility were before
me ; and that, if I profited well by my
position, I should merit to transmigrate into a
higher sphere I profited. I beheld the glories of
tbe British Empire encircling me, announcing
with the lungs of Nature that they would blaze
for ever. I got within the blaze. Other Irishmen
were for knocking the glories out, and conse-
quently I see them down below, transmigration
after transmigration, still humans. When my
mother was thrown on the road sick, when my
father was hung for taking a scythe to the land-
lord, I stuck to tbe glories, and oh, when death
time, or what is foolishly called death, 1 ascended
into the sphere of the Englishman. Looking back
on it now, I cannot say that I at that time remem-
bered anything of the procession which had taken
place; but that is an evidence of how Nature
eovers our calculations, if we are true to her, or
to her vicegerents, with the accomplishment of
her own exalted purpose. As an Englishman, I
was truly and heroically English. The Empire to
me was a divinity. Royalty to me was its persona-
tion. Indeed, once I was tempted to fall. Royalty,
or the exalted personage who typifies royalty—
who is the heart and soul of the glo-
rious British Throne—spoiled my wife, won
her soft heart, stained her name, and, rash
as I was (it must have been because I
was lately an Irishman), I swore that I’d have re-
venge. But in a little, I remembered that I was
an Englishman, and the remembrance saved me.
Loosing back on it now, I tremble as I see how
near I was to having myself cast back among the
lower orders again. I triumphed over the tempta-
tion, however, and when I died, lo, I was advanced
into the position of an Australian Native 1 Other
Englishmen are still Englishmen; they were born
over and over again into their old conditions, be-
cause they did not see Nature as I saw her and
obey her commands as I obeyed them. I recog-
nise hosts of them in Birmingham and Northamp-
ton. Need I say how I aeted as an Australian
Native ? All the world knows that. Did an Irish-
man want a fair chance to speak his thoughts on
how his country was governed? I shouted out, and
unless you were deaf you heard me, to shut the
halls against him. I shut them. I proclaimed the
sanctity of Royalty, the obligation of bending be-
fore the august Thione, the indissolubility of
the Empire, and a reverent regard for everyone
that smelled of high breeding; and lo, it pleased
Nature to ordain my exaltation into the sphere of
the Arch-Human.
In the planetary ether I had now my dwelling.
I was still robed with a body, but not such a wne as
I had worn upon earth. A remembrance of the
past canje up dreamlike before me; a vision of the
future beamed clearer and steadier upon me.
Mere respiration of the fluid in which I moved
supported me, and this respiration was carried on
as unconsciously and involuntarily as the circula-
tion of blood in the Human. I discharged no
physiological function. I was dowered with the
property of impassibility. I required no sleep; no
darxness met my eyes. The sense of recognition
was active, but there was no sex, and no multipli-
cation of individuals. Seldom is one degraded
from this sphere. Imperceptibly a time of disso-
lution comes round, and, though still with pain,
yet with infinite security and consolation the soul
passes upward into a finer and more spiritualised
body. Owing to my past discipline, I had no
trouble in passing upward. Between the Human
and the Great Unknown, multitudinous living
hierarchies intervene, and one by one the incarna-
tions are effected, until the last tissue drops off
our souls, and we— Oh, I go, I go! I rise to the
great flaming orb I Humans, remember me 1
It is probably not generally known that
Moncure D. Conway was, when starting in life, in-
tended to be a Methodist preacher. He has proved
to have a mind several sizes too large for that
mould, and is now a very wise and philosophical
person, while many of his old College mates oc-
cupy pulpits. But neither the destined philo-
sopher nor the budding parsons were too grave for
a practical joke in the year 1849. The traditions of
Dickinson College, where Moncure Oonway was
being prepared for the church, ascribe to him a
share in a pretty wild exploit, the victim of which.
Bishop Peck, died only the other day. Peck was
president of the Dickinson College, and started off
to attend Conference at Staunton, Ya., where a
state lunatic asylum was situated, whereupon
some of the students wrote a letter to the super-
intendent of the ctaunton Asylum, stating that a
lunatic had escaped from confinement in Penn-
sylvania, a very large man, very bald-headed,
with great, round, staring blue eyes, whose special
form of mania was that he was a Methodist
preacher and President of Dickinson College, it
was thought that he had gone to Staunton to attend
the Conference to which he fancied he belonged.
He answered to the name and title of “ Dr. Peck.”
The friends of this unfortunate gentleman would
be exceedingly obliged to the Staunton superin-
tendent if he would watch the cars, and, if the in-
dividual described made his appearance, quietly
take charge of him, and keep him under asylum
restraint till some friend could get to him. All
charges for his detention would be promptly met.
The superintendent was on hand at the time indi-
cated. singled out this man readily, and cour-
teously addressed him. “ Dr. Peck, I believe ?”
“ Fes, sir.” “ I have a carriage in waiting for
you.” “ You are very kind,” said the unsuspect-
ing stranger, as he took his seat in the vehicle, and
was forthwith whirled off to the lunatic Umbo,
where he would have been incarcerated as a dan-
gerous manaic if the preachers of the Conference
had not interfered and assured the incredulous
keeper of the Old Dominion cranks that the Fal-
staflian doctor was as sane as the average of hu-
manity, and only the victim of a ridiculous hoax.
The Rev. D. Jones Hamer stoutly sticks to
the Victorian State School immorality revelations.
The Castlemaine Board, it is true, say there is no
more in them than in some other “ revelations,”
over which men have been wrangling close on
two thousand years, but Mr. Hamer knows better.
To the question, “ why are not the names of the
parties concerned revealed ?” he now says: “It is
to save the heart-broken parents and sorrowing
friends from further pain!” And he has made
another discovery. This is the danger to morality
arising from children of opposite sexes travelling
together, long distances, to school, in country
places. So long as two sexes are necessary in
working out the scheme of creation (whatever
that scheme is) there will always be danger in
leaving boys and girls, or even men and women,
together, without proper supervision. By why
greater temptation to sin should arise from going
to school together, than from hunting rabbits or
“ goanners,” or wandering through the “ bush ”
in company, is a matter on which Mr. Hamer
might certainly enlighten us.
When the news reached Glasgow, in 1856,
about Cameron’s horse being shod with golden
shoes on the Ovens (Vic.) river, all the Scotch
papers were full of Cameron and his bringing up,
and his wonderful position in Australia, for months
after. He had been a Glasgow policeman, you
see. and in 1856 was a storekeeper and member of
the Local Court at the Woolshed— “the richest
creek in Victoria.” He was returned by the
sluicers of the Woolshed against John Christian
Lyons, the candidate put forward by the dry-
sinkers and others about Beechworth. There was
more gold than wit in those days, and so they
shod Cameron’s horse with four shoes, containing
33 ounces of pure gold, when he rode into Beech-
worth escorted by & whole brigade of irregular
cavalry. “Woolshed" Johnson shouted twelve
dozen of champagne (£144) as a commencement
when the cavalcade drew up at Luke Rielly’s Union
hotel. But Cameron made but a very weak repre-
sentative. He never opened his mouth once in the
House: joined a merchant named Reid in business
in Melbourne: in less than a year “went broke ”•
and subsequently carried his swag about the
colonies, poorer than ever he was before. Johnson,
who shouted the champagne, and who is said to
have cleared £60,000 out of his claim, was im-
prisoned for a miserable wages judgment of £13
m Beechworth gaol a few years after the golden
shoes episode. He had lost everything by specu-
lating in the deep leads at Ballarat, and otherwise
and returned to the Ovens to work the Wooragav
Creek for gold and diamonds, but was unsuccess-
ful. Those were the good old days of 30,000-ounce
escorts, when the explorer, Robert O’Hara Burke
(who fell in love with Julia Matthews, then 14), was
the local Superintendent of Police.
THAT VISIT TO THE VERNON.
An Unreported Incident.
PLAYED OUT.
Sick am I at heart, and weary
Of the world’s vain strife;
Sorrow’s sombre shade has slowly
Fallen o’er my life.
After many years of hoping,
Hope is fled my breast;
Now is no ambition left me,
Save to be at rest.
How mv early dreams have vanished—
Vanished into air I
Died as die all boyhood’s visions.
With their promise fair.
Time has stolen from my nature
What was brightest, best;
Not one good ambition leaving,
Save—to be at rest.


Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favourite remedy. We all suffer more
or less from liver complaint, thereby hindering
other organs from fulfilling their functions. Set
tne liver in order by taking' the above remedy, and
heart, lungs, brain, and stomach will unite in
graceful chorus.
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The true invigorator. If your vital forces are
depressed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of coming
disaster, your liver is unequal to its work. TV
obviate all these symptoms there is no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion of
the maladies and ailments attacking the human
frame are really due to a disordered liver. Set this
organ in order and health returns as if by mag;c.
CAUTION 'TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are imitations, ask for ABRAHAM’S
riLLo. See that each box, by whomsoever sold
bears the inventor’s name and trade mark. The
Labi i at") ry,
484 George Street, Sydney.
■ • — »
lOEDONE,
Pleasant, Refreshing
Invigorating.
The nou-a.oonoi;o beverage acts as a brain and
nerve tonic, and does not intoxicate.
20ED0NE
wi^ co^ mende f hy , th * faculty as a substitute fet
nmH.'i^n er and .spirits, as It invigorates without
nlwiui K any lntox icating effect. In case of
climate * on a } ong residence in a hot
2■?i? not only as
tothis system!* 111 *’ but also ai a percent to^
Price per case containing 6 dozen H pints ... 12/
’ •* >» « „ 1 „ .. 34/
ELLIOTT BROTHERS,
73 and 74 Pltt-street,
Sydney.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
308 GEORGE STREET.
«£SSi
LE
WHOLES
GROCE
and
WINE and
SPIRIT ME It-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD S
celebrated”
■ SCOTCH
OLD
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGBN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
■ MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
w
Apply to
ORK1NG CLAS
GENERATE VO UR OWN GAS.
E a.
D. KBELY AND CO.,
71 Goukmm-street, Sydney.
Deaiers In Portable Gas, Gasallers, Lamps,
Fluid. Comfort, Economy, and Safety.
, Mr. Hedy, on behalf of the Patent Portable Gas
and
Co., had charge of the lighting of the half and
supper rooms at the Hay Demonstration, and the
ffilfiino rtf Q4n4-4/\»< TV j , . ,
of Croydon Station. He undertakes to
s customers in three minutes the mode of
lighting.
A liberal discount will be given to storekeepers
0I ?a:£ em •^? n 5 e8 P er , orders, and goods forwarded
with quick despatch. Orders and remittances to
be sent to the above address. No orders attended
to without remittance.
LIST OF PRICES;
..£3 10 e
2 10 0
1 15 0 to £2
6 10 0
S 0
2 10 0
4 Light Gasalier
3 do, do
3 do. do
3 Light Brass Table Lamps I.
1 do. do. do
Brass Bracket Lamps, bum 16
hours
Wall Bracket Lamps, do.
Globes and Fittings
Fluid, in cases, 8gallons.. .. „ „
1 gal. fluid gives a ught equal to 13s worth kero-
sene. instructions as to the mode of lighting sent
fn nlinnfa vrrl+Vi “ ****** BVUI '
2 0
0 17
0 5
0 3
0
6
0 each
6 gal.
to clients with despatch of goods.
nt to all parts of the Colonies.
Goods sent
THE HARWOOD
Fibre Chair Seating,
Possessing all the qualities of a perfect seat, i
Strength, Durability, Ease, Beauty, Cleanup
and Cheapness
viz.
THIS CHAIR SEAT is made from the strongest
known fibres and a perfectly waterproof
cement, and after fifteen years’ constant use, wa
can speak positively as to Its merits. It cannot
spi or check, neither will exposure to sun or rain
affect it.
Awarded Gold Medal at the late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
For RE-SEATING it Is unrivalled. In every
house, store and office, are chairs with seats broken.
Any person can re-seat and make as good as new a
chair that is otherwise worthless, at a very trifling
GXP6DS6.
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE FOE HOME USE.
Agents Wanted in Every District.
From £3 to £5 a week can be made by any smart
man or boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
83 CLARENCE STREET.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
Stock, Station, and Genera! Com-
mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
TONIC NERVINE
REGISTERED.
SAFE, certain, and speedy cure for Nervous
and General Debility, and all complaints that
— — * Mil wuipuuiu. „
spring from Jack of force, as Neuralgia,
*1 ~ oss of
Jtr _ T iuivo, no in oil rau
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion. Loss ot
Appetite, Liver and Kidney Complaints, General
Prostration, &c. By its tonic and soothing effects
J. , w OWUUUK
It at once removes all craving for Alcohol. By Its
richness in phosphorous and other powerful vital-
ising elements it nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. Price, 4s. 6d. Sold everywhere
or sent anywhere for 54 stamps by the sole pro-
prietors. MARSHALL BROTHERS, M.P.S., Che-
mists, 106 Mark.lvstreet, Sydney.
N.B.—Ail imitations illegal.
W. H. PALING,
1356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
i
hmmm
W&Mtss
EASY TERMS SYSTEM S? INSTRUMENT,
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC,
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
TEDIARD’SSHORT HORN BOURBON. - The
JLA drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and thf
Americangentlemen; will soon be the leadinc
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftene*
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOPPNUNO & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
14 and 16 Spring 1 Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ys In STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE
SALE BUYERS ONLY.
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARD WARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWA R E,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J.T, uta YEN’S
Schnapps anct cioneva.
A. MELV !N and SONS’
Edinbuign Pale * e.
as
PAPERS ANGI NOS!
DADOES, BORDERS, Wltb
FRIEZES to -vatcu,
NURSERY PAYERS,
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, &0.
Imported by
Alexander Borthw/ck,
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT
Gmutoe
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
"CJ 1 33. dertaker,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
. N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years: also
Manager for over ten (10) years. ’ ’
EURE
LKA A
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
t&r THE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco of the Age !
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The oi y Tobacco com Dining Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Price.
» w C * h -. PL « UG with the word
elkjska. Smokers see that you obtain ’t.
Take no other.
manufactured by
will’s Tobacco Co., Lin.
AT TME EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
An ’ j u be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as its merits become known.
„ EUREKA TOBACCO.
Registered according to A# of Parliament, to pro-
Stf* 110 a ** ul8t spurious and worthless
OEGiilTS,
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
W. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.,
THE BEST MAKERS IN THE WORLD,
AT EXTRAORDINARY LOW PRICES.
w. H. PALIN Gr,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & CO.,
in, HIM, ail Mi m,
397 GEORGE STREET,
56 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
SOLE ABE NTS FOR ROBEY & CO.. ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ Tools, Pounders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery, Coach
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricultural
Implements.
ENGINES,
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing' and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
PUMPS.
Special Steam, Centrifugal, and
Force and Lift.
BOILERS.
Vertical and Horizontal.
MACHINERY.
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting and Screwing
Machines. Massey s unequalled Steam Hammers.
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY.
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret Saws. Genera
Joiners and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam-power.
English and American Agricultural Implements.
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows Cultivator r» n
Rakes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushed a^henert.TKhSgMachme™ 6
RaUway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
BgiIiDxbs' «xd i-urntahin,*. Vanishes, and
Squatters’ Supplies.
Woolpacks, Sheep Shears. Oils, Raddle, Wire, Sheep Washing and Dam Making
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Locks, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Carpenters’ Tools.
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND CO..
397 George Street, Sydney.


Pianos! Pianos! Pianos!
FREE TRADE and NO MONOPOLY.
Live and Let Live, these are Our Mottoea.
It is a well-known fact that the Foundations c I
Colossal Fortunes have been established upon tl e
Profits arising from the SALE OF PIANOS in tbig
City during the past Twenty Years by those
having little or no knowledge of the Construction
and Details of the Pianoforte. While giving the
Public the benefit of our Mr. Young’s 25 years
personal practical experience (5 years in John
Broadwood and Sons, London, and 20 in N.8.W.)
we will, at the same time, be satisfied with a fair
percentage on the Co-operative Principle, sharing
the Profits with our Customers. We will sell from
25 per cent, less than the tame class of Instrument
can be Purchased at any Music Shop in Sydney,
and we will offer nothiag for Sale we canpot
guarantee. American Organs at proportionately
low prices. Also a Large Stock of Kohn’s Cele-
brated Austrian Furniture, a single article of
which we are selling at Wholesale Prices.
Come and See Our LITTLE BEAUTIES in Wal-
nut and Full Iron Frame, at £25 cash, Eleswhere
£10 more, or under a Liberal Time Payment Sys-
tem.
George E. Young and Co.,
I&r 285 PITT STREET,
South of Royal Arcade.
Singer’s Sewing Machines.
TURNER & CO.
Are the Recognised Agents of the
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS:
2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week.
And no interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
|ar BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE “ SINGER,’'
TURNER & COMP A > Y,
353 George-street.
THE ONLY “SINGER.”
Turner and Company,
678 GEORGE STREET.
Champagne
Heidsieck & Go’s.
DRY M0N0P0LE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICH A BBS & Co., London.
Sole Agents for Heidsieck & Co., Reims.
GARTON’S HOTEL,
SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusememts.
S. 6. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 346.
SEARL & SONS,
NURSERYMEN, SEEDSMEN, BOUQUBTI8T8,
And Artistic Floral Dinner-table Decorators,
3 and 5 GEORGE-STREET MARKETS, SYDNEY;
Also,
BLAIR ATHOL NURSERY, PETERSHAM.
fW~ Pelargoniums now in full bloom. Inspection
invited.
MOULTONS
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MGULTON’E
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and no
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract ef Fruit).
They are a* nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price Is. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
V5?
*5
mam
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT.-This favourite brace
of Stout selected with great care from tee
best of the brewings of the celebrated firm oi
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefor*
cannot be excelled. To b® procured ®varywhurfc
C ATT ELL * CO., Sol® Agent*. —
EWEBY
MAN
|
SHOULD
1 READ
Or. Marstoi?'s Hew Work
Describing how sufferers from
Nervous and Physical Debility,
Mental Decay and all disorders
resulting from Excesses, Indis-
cretions or Overwork, are per-
manently Cured
Without Stomach Medicines.
WEAK, NERVOUS. AND IMPOTENT
MEN RESTORED TO
VIGOR, HEALTH & MANHOOD
Consultation with Physician
and Book FREE. Address —
Mansion Remedy Co.,
72 IlIZi-BETH ST., SIDNEY
P. R. HOLDSWORTH,
AUCTIONEER, VALUATOR,
House, Land & Estate Agent
63 ROYAL ARCADE, PITT STREET.
im
COMFORTABLE TELTH
The use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are three kinos, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached te
the bottles. Tnat with the Yellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is Invaluable to peisons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
gums,decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
drops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never sutler again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution—To guard agakist fraudulent imitations,
ee that each Label bears the name, “ Wilcox and
Co., 239 Oxford-street, London."
DE
ASTHMA '8‘Jf.H BROW! IS
One of these Cigarettes gives Immediate relief In
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis,
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them Invaluable, as they instantly check the
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
see that each box bears the name of “ Wilcox and
Co., 339 Oxford-street. London."
EAU DE COLOGNE.
4?il.
ESTABLISHED 1793.
4711.
Gold Medal, Moscow, 1872.
Prize Medal, Vienna, 1873.
THIS EAU DE COLOGNE, so favourably
known
last 35 years,
Exhibition the
PRIZE Sydney International Exhibition, for its
superior sweetness, strength, and invigorating
qualities, excelling all other competitors.
It has become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the
ELITE OF EUROPE.
The large and constantly Increasing demand for
the genuine 7411 EAU DE COLOGNE, not only in
Europe, but also in North and South America,
India, and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number 4711 changed into 7411,1147, 4117, &c., &c.
The real genuine article, which carried off the
Prize Medal at the Vienna Exhibition, is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue and gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711-
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pitt-
street, Sydney. To be had at the principal Per-
fumers, Druggists, and Storekeepers in town and
country.
ALCOCK&CO.'S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES.
SOLE AGENTS:
CHARLES 11 ui CO.,
375 George-st., Sydney.
TIME PAYMENTS, IF REQUIRED
Says the Standard Barrt “ The world
one day will see, and la more and more coming to
see, that it must be one of three things—Orange,
Papist, or Infidel. 1 ’ If this be so, and ’tis pro-
nounced dogmatically ecc cathedra, the k’rect tip*
as it appears to us, is to go i a lemons fo,r infidelity.
The other day, the Queen of Italy had a
birthday, and a D.T. man went aboard the Carac-
ciola to tell us all about it. He tells us he arrived
•• just after dinner-time.” Whatever the Italians
are, they are not fools; and so, as there was only a
year’s maccaroni on hand, the petty officers
headed a deputation to the skipper to put off the
scribe's visit till dinner was over and the things
washed up. But if they didn’t blow him out with
“tucker,” they did with information, and he now
boasts of knowing more about what he calls “ La
Stella dTtalia” than any two men of his size and
weight in Sydney. He tells us that Margherita
Maria Teresa Giovanna, Queen of Italy, is the
daughter of the late Ferdinand Maria Alberto,
Duke of Genoa. She is 32 years of age, and is
very much beloved, like our own Sovereign: so
much so, indeed, that Carduccl, the Italian Re-
publican laureate, has written verses in her
honour. She speaks Italian, French, English,
Spanish, and German, “and is conversant with the
literature of all those countries.” She plays the
piano and mandolin, is a connoisseur in art, well
acquainted with mathematics and navigation, and
is a poetess whose “ productions are characterised
in a high degree by tenderness of feeling.” As it
took Buckle twenty years’ reading of eight hours
a day to master one branch alone of English litera-
ture, it is clear that the Queen must have wonked
hard under competent masters. Whenever we
hear of the extraordinary proficiency of exalted
persons, and the Shakspearian depth of feeling
and knowledge of huma nity to be found in their
writings, we somehow think of Frederick the
Great and Voltaire. Frederick could beat the
French and ill-use the flute, but, when it came to
an epigram or an epitaph, his knees knocked
together to hear what the terrible “Arouet”
thought of it. There is no doubt that science, art,
and literature lose a good deal by the rare pub-
lication of Royal lucubrations. It is certain that
the “Life of the Prince Consort” filled a blank in
English letters, and there is good reason to suppose
that, if the Prince of Wales could be induced to
put his thoughts on paper, the Republicans,
Radicals, Dynamitists, and general pot-walloppers
of Europe would be squelched for the next gene-
ration. The Duke of Edinburgh, it will be remem-
bered, is a fiddler of no mean capacity, and at a
concert could always be depended upon to be half
through the allegro while the conductor was fool-
ing about the anda/mte.
The Paroo river is very low aud oaunot
leave its bed.
A recent accession of talent to the musical
world is a rather nice girl—or, at least, a girl who
would be rather nice did she not persist in leading
about a big tom-cat at the end of a chain. This
freak of genius, it may fairly be presumed, isn’t
designed to advertise the lady’s intention of re-
maining in a condition of maidenhood. No, it’s
merely an innocent way of attracting notice,
theatricals frequently adopt such expedients.
Ada Ward—a sweet young creature, who is now
r early 18 years of age—used, when in Melbourne,
to lead about a bulldog in public. A man who
knew Ada a little was one day going down Bourke
street, and there met Ada and her dog. Her
mantle or something became unfastened, and she
asked him to hold the dawg while she fixed up the
garment. He had to accede to her wishes, and
was constrained by politeness to lead the brute
right down to Swanston - street, through the
crowd of bookmakers, &c., assembled under the
verandah of the Opera House, who greet d him
with such pleasing remarks as “A puppyateither
end of the string,” and so on. Poor Ketten had a
dog also, and used to say matutinally to the cook
.at the Exchange: “You please make nice pouding
for mine tog, Rockee.”
We welcome, in a spirit of serenity,
the latest effusion from the diamond-pointed pen
of our junior contemporary, whose premises face
the Currency Lass public-house. The article in
question concerns the visit of the Earl of Rose-
bery to the Vernon; and such is the odour of
eighteenpenny lavender water that pervades it,
the identity of the writer stands at once forth in
pleasant prominence. He states —with an outward
aspect of ingenuousness—but we are afraid (sad
dog that he is!) with an inward spirit of satire-
that “ At the time of the arrival of his Lordship
and party, Mr. Hugh Robison, the inspector of
Charities, who had been doing some departmental
business with Captain Neitenstein, happened to
be on board.” Now, we know Mr. Robison
better than this. He la never accidentally
anywhere; and we are sure it was only in
answer to the call of duty that he was in atten-
dance on that occasion. For, if it be not the call
of duty to do the honours to a Minister and the
civil to an Earl, what, we want to know, i; the use
of being a civil servant at all? We have known
Mr. Robison a long time. He is an excellent old
gentleman; and, let us say, can, on an official
visit, tell a pump from a palm-tree without the
aid of a pair of binoculars. He has one aim in
life, has Mr. R. That is to be made “ Comptroller
of Public Charities,” instead of Inspector. Until
he is either made this, or an angel, he
will not be happy. Dr. Manning—who years before
he attained his present position exercised exactly
the same amount of power in his department—
never rested until he was made Inspector-General
of the Insane. Mr. John Cecil Read, who used to
be “Principal Gaoler,” has just blossomed into
“Governor of Darlinghurst Gaol;” and, though
he does not possess one iota more power or get
one penny more power «than formerly, he is now
in the enjoyment of ethereal bliss. When we say
he does not possess an iota more power, we do
so with a cerrain amount of diffidence,—for
happiness is said to have a considerable effect
upon the appetite, and, therefore, we cannot
answer for his powers of devastation in the hash
department not being considerably increased. The
love uf superlative titles is a disease with Civil ser-
vants. Our own Henry, for instance, would give his
ears (or part of them) to be officially gazetted “Poet
laureate of N.S. Wales.” He is, of course, ipso
facto, our poet laureate-for no one that we know
can write the same kind of poetry—but he wants
the official title. Thus, then, with our friend
Hugh, whose power even now allows him to make
a superintendent squirm, and a matron tremble.
The party which met Mr. Hugh Robison {“ by
accident”) consisted of the Earl of Rosebery
(with one “r”), the Hon. “ Toby” Barton, the Hon.
G. H. Reid, and the Minister for J istice. This
illustrious party was attended by that distinguished
exponent of legislative silence —His Worship
the Mayor—a gentleman whose Ultimotum is
received with considerable respect in Pyrmont.
The Earl, it seems, was much im pressed. Having
received the bullet-headed contingent, he said to
Captain Neitenstein (who had, on that auspicious
occasion, discarded his historic slippers) with a
pleasant humour, “ Have you any Scotch boys ?’*
We now quote our aromatic chronicler:—“Cap.
tain Neitenstein significantly answered ‘No; we
had one once.’ In this there is a meaning that is
evidently below the surface. We’ll leave it there.
The library, only containing two Waverley novels
did not come up to the robie Earl’s standard of
intellectnal food, so—once more we humbly clip:
—“ His Lordship generously promised to present
a complete set to the library.” Following, we
learn that “ on the lower deck several boys were
noticed working a mangle, whilst others were em-
ployed at a sewing-machine.” Mr. Reid exhibited
—and we are not surprised at this—considerable
interest in the mangle-manipulation. As two
hemispheres are a ware, the Hon. George is shortly
to be united to a vision in the holy bonds, and—
as one can’t always be a Minister, why it stands to
reason that—but, of course, it is obvious! Lord
Rosebery gave a pound to be rowed for; and this
was supplemented by another pound from the
Minister for Education. Lord Rosebery wished
to supplement his sov. by another, judg-
ing, with true Scotch acumen, that as there were
twenty-six boys in each boat, there would “ not
be much of a dividend ” for the winners; but the
gallant Cap. respectfully refused. He said that
he did not wish to encourage his boys to attend
land sales, having in view the questionable quality
of the sandwiches. On this, the band struck up,
when the illustrious guest immediately remem-
bered that he had an important appointment to
call round at College-street and pay his respects
to a distinguished official before the angels
clutched him. Seven guns were fired on the
party’s departure, much to Lord Rosebery’s sur-
prise, which astonishment on part of the noble
guest was, however, subsequently dissipated by
an official intimation reaching him that the
honour was intended exclusively for the Minister
for Justice—one gun being fired for each of the
Seven Deadly Sins, or for each of the tribes of
which the honorable Henry E. is a distinguished
descendant.
Another Injustice to Ireland.
Mb. Moncubk Conwat in the Nobth American
Review for October, deals with the “ St. Patrick
Myth,” and arrives at the conclusion that Saint
Patrick was a preacher of gentle birth, who, born
near Glastonbury, and converted by British
monks, started a British mission in Ireland, where
Pelagius had failed.— Argus, November 17.
OI Moncure, of the mystic lore,
Pray, never practise that trick;
01 rob no more the saintly shore,
But leave to Eire her Patrick.
Forbid her sons their fatherland.
Malign the patriots therein,
But there —withhold thy ruthless hand.
And leave her saints to Brin.
She had them once —who is not told —
Her soldiers, saints, and scholars;
They were the shepherds of her fold
Bre shepherds wrought for dollars.
The seed they sowed in Erin’s breast
Has flourished well behind them;
Then let the gentle bishops rest
Where pious thoughts may find them.
01 you the book-octopus, who
Can grapple every topic,
And struggle through, as if you knew,
The details miscrosooplc,
Tell us of sports, of travels, faiths,
Q in-oocktails, or salvation.
But oh I don’t resurrect the wraiths—
They’d “cut” the Irish nation.
Go and discourse—like Cook —on things
From Irish stew to statics;
Go, sling the verse that Sladen slings
Go, join with Booth’s fanatics.
Bide through our land by post and rail,
Meet C.M.G.’s at levees,
Then weigh us by their social scale,
With “ kings you’ve met,” or “ heavies.”
Go join an Orange lodge—or wrench
Each fact to crush the Bible—
Or mount the sapient Supreme bench
And throw a light on “ libel; ”
But spare his name with pen profane,
Or your short span’s allotted,
For crimson streaks your shirt will stain
From slits in your carotid.
Since he, to spite reporters, slew
The snakes from Clear to Mizzen,
And spoiled their stories, “ strange but true,”
They’ve tried to mix up his’n.
Each chronicler his oirth-place knows,
And each will give a new one—
Until some future Armit shows
The saint to be Papuan.
And though you write as if you knew,
It seems too great a tax on
Our fond beliefs—to think it true—
That he was hated Saxon.
Why not, dear Moncure, put it pat,
Although it’s rather lanky,
A man who’d drive a “ biz.” like that
Might bo a Golden Yankee.
But, Moucurs, dear, I sadly fear
Your ways are slightly devious,
For though, ’tls said, we’re “go-ahead,”
Your yarn is rather “ previous; ”
And though, with transcendental art.
Ingeniously you weave it,
’Twill take a lot of whisky hot
To make a man believe it.
HUGH K. LIPTUS.
Brunswick, Victoria.


Christmas Season, 1883-84.
CrEO. ROBERTSON
Bears to announce
THAT HIS MAGNIFICENT STOCK
CHRISTMAS
AND
NEW YEAR’S CARDS
FOE THE COMING SEASON,
IS NOW OPEN FOE SELECTION.
GEORGE ROBERTSON,
361 George-street.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
T£« r ED TAG is the-NEW TOBACCO.
Th« RRD TAG * the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION BED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
TTNPBECEDENTBD suooesfl follows the intro-
U ductlon of the LION TOBACCO ; It is science
against ignorance, and science wins; therefore,
organise, organise at onee, se that everyene ean
B™o k A e ®de«eatTobaeeo like the favourite LION
with a mod W te** rkse 1^*6 * * very superior quality
IHEYOE, TOOMAN A CO.,
TOKK STBEBT. SYDNEY.
MORT and CO.
(Limited),
WOOL AND GENERAL
PRODUCE BROKERS.
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
Grain and Fleur Brokers.
LIBERAL ADVANCES
, nude on
Wool,
Sheepskins,
Tallow,
Hides, Wheat,
Tin Ore, and
other Produce
for SALE and SHIPMENT.
Wool Warehouse# and Produce Stored,
CIRCULAR QUAY
and
DARLING HARBOUR, SYDNEY.
AIR-TIGHT SHOW CASE COMPT.,
67 GEORG A STREET WE/IT,
SHOP,
Air-tight
SHOW
OFFICE,
CASES
AND
AT
Hotel-bar
LONDON
FITTERS
PRICES,
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
TJUBLIO NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON k CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS.
ESTABLISHED 1884,
late 482 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET
vis.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
0«, TWO DOORS NORTH OF OLD 8H97
KtSVtticR^^Qi
(T\
IJmum*
8S COLLEGE STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY,
AR ™CAL TEETH on the most approved Knm-
Fittei Painlessly, Perfect Msstloa-
tion, N atural Appearance, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping, Scaling, and Extractions skilfully
performed.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
FOWLER’S POTTERY and
BRICKWORKS,
OAMPEBDOWN, NEAJR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature. Law, MeremntRe and
Fancy Stationery.
BElidh Papers and Magazines received by
•very Mall.
ROYAL ARCADE, ill GEORGE ST- SYDNEY.
HOT WAT FTP CAT'-'
HAhi L";' :. .’< ;5KI»-» • *• «•«' ■ .-■ , ■
•' i37 I.S9 v|4» oX r :;r,‘j
' HALF H^UCuY V /- 7 ,‘yisriSOAY
NO
ALL
CHEST AFFEC
IONS
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
w is
FLOW
wire workers,
iH to call your attention to WIRE GOODS
and have in stock as under
- jjOWBR STANDS, for holding flowers in pots,
9* lr 2 n v ? wire - handsomely framed and
bronzed, suitable for rooms, halls, balconies, ver-
conservatories. Also, WIRE
BA8&.E18, all sizes and prices.
SIEVES and SCREENS, for screening 1 lime.
from liTinT to 72 in.~wide.' sizes,
™£^= ES o 0f , every description, for canaries and
{topers Bnjrly or in ne »ts, suitable for store-
th^premlses do8oriptlon of WIRE WORK mad® on
EA8TWAY. BROTHERS,
413 GEORQB-STRBET.
' Illustrated Catalogues on application.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
IV. Jf. Ariel I and Co.’ s Agencies.
SWALLOW & ARIBLL’S prize Biscuits, Canter-
bury, Normanby, and Christmas Family Cakes,
Puddings, Mincemeat, Self-raising
“““ Food ' Tte “*« S§
EI ffi5SfpSfto^T rlor ' r, ° torl “ 0lt -
BURROWS'’ prize assorted Confec-
& SONS, No. 1 Mottled and Toilet
J * & 5°Ti’v Coffee > Mustard, Cocoa,
Sd■pS.S b GSt.. U,, • ""“a ace,
HD jSi!.s; s t is^ ki,w Powder8 ' Ade “ d *
343 and 345 KBNT-STREET, SYDNEY.
BLEND
TRADE
JMARkj
%/ST£ftfS
10LLIB BLEND WHISKY.—This is a BLEND
* of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
fulness nobody, and delicacy
of taste and
Agents.
& CO., Sole
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER or PITT AND PARK STREETS.
JAMES PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind all old customers and the
S nolle generally tnat he has a large assortment of
rawing, Dining, and Bed Room Furniture, also
ufflee Furniture, all of good quality and reason-
able In price. Inspection solicited.
JEWELLERY, JEWELLERY. JEWELLERY
CASH SALK.
EXTENSIVE ALTERATION TO PREMISES.
LAMB & FAIRFAX, 23 Hunter-street,
t»eg to inform their customers and the public that
they are now offering their carefully-selected
Stock at a Reduction of 25 per cent.
Five Shillings in the Pound taken off plain marked
previous prices.
N.B.—As Christmas is close at hand, the opportu-
. PL 1110,11(1 notl »o missed of purchasing intended
Witts.
•mHE GUNDAGA! HERALD,
JL Pastoral Gazette & Farmers’ Chronicle,”
. mT,w^ wlth whlch is incorporated the
TEMORA HERALD & MINING JOURNAL.”
Published every
WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
The popular paper of the district.
W. H. L. BAILEY, Proprietor.
Thenttfcal Job Printing, and box office for
Assembly Hall.
REGISTERED BRAND.
Foster s Bugle Brand.
» lagii
Mm
m
POTSTILL AND MALT WHISKY,
guaranteed five years old.
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALE ALE.
JAMES YOUNG, Sole Agent,
No. 9 CHANGE ALLEV.
J^/J" ADAME WEIGEL’F
Paper Patterns
of
Dresses, Manti.es, &c.,
and
Weigel’s Journal ot
Fashions,
which contains the latest styles, are sold by the
following agents :—
George Slater, Stationer, 39 Oxford-st., Sydney
Mrs. Beales, Fancy Repository, Regent-st., Redfem
Mrs. T. H. Griffiths, Milliner, 335 King-st., Newtowi
Mrs. C. Chapman, Fancy Repository, Church-st.
south, Parramatta
Principal Retail Office:
181 KING-STREET (near Elizabeth-st.), Sydney.
Schweppes Mineral Waters,
as supplied
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN AND ROYAL
FAMILY,
CAN be obtained of the principal Hotel-keepers,
Wine Merchants, and Chemists throughout
the colonies.
SODA-WATER, LEMONADE, GINGER AT.F
POTASS, LITHIA (for gout) SELTZER,
TONIC, MAGNESIA WATERS.
51 BERNERS-STREET, LONDON;
58 MARGARET-STR RET, SYDNEY.
WRIGHT, HEATON & CO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE:
241 Pitt Street, Sydnej
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OP NE’W
SOUTH WALES.
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.S.W.;
Goulbum
Yass
Downing
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rock
Culcairn
Cowabee
Narandera
Hulong
Carrathool
Hay
Western District, N.S.W.;
Capertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromlne
Nevertlre
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblln
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
Northern District, N.S.W.;
Morpeth Brewarrina
Gunned ah Tamworth
Narrabrl Uralla
Walgett
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Line:
Brisbane Yeulba
Roma Oambooya
Dalby
Central Line:
Rockhampton Capella
Bogantungan Comet
Emerald
Northern Lins:
Townsville Ravenswood Junction
Charters Towers
Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
WM. MCULLOCH & CO.. LIMITED.
I Agencies in all parts of the world.
_ ■ v
MBRELLAS
\
RE-COVERED.
CTUDY ECONOMY
and
Have yourU mbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols reclined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Between
■ Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
I Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
cuted.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE J
MERCHANTS.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
POBERT BUTCHER & CO.,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
TO CONNOTSEUES of WHISKEY & BRANDY.
W. & A. GUbey’a CASTLE BRAND WHI8-
KEY and L’OR EXTRAIT BRANDY are the
oldest and purest spirits imported,
TUCKER & CO., Agents,
377 George-street.
EVERY DESCRIPTION OF PISHING TACKLE,
Wholesale and Retail.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE STREET.
A. GORMAN,
Late of the Telegraph Hotel, Inverell,
HAS OPENED THE
‘ Cla.reanLd.om.,’
Comer of ELIZABETH & PARK Streets,
And which he intends to keep as a first-class Hotel,
A. G. hopes, by strict attention to Business to
gam a share of their PATRONAGE. \ T8IT(5rs
will find this surpasses most of the leading
HOTELS for ACCOMODATION and every COl£
VENlENCE ; and, as it overlooks HYDE PARK it
must necessarily be WELL VENTILATED. ’
SUITES of BOOMS for FAMILIES,
as per agreement.
HOT and COLD WATER BATHS.
PORTER in Attendance Day and Night.
mangles
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Com shellers
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
&c. &c. &c.
W
ILCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES
Mangle and
wringer, £410
HEBBLEWHITE & CO. 1 )
416 GEORGE STREET.
DINNER,
fc
o
•—i
H
◄
Q
0
1
3
O
o
o
◄
%
ONE SHILLING.
a
a
2
A
MS
A
*
X
K
PITT STREET,
NEXT TATTKRSALL’S.
AU Meals One Shilling.
J. C. GREENFIELD, PttOPJLLIZOa.


Mr. DeCourgt Browne (lat-* Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also. Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva ©hampers, 136 Pltt-street, Sydney.
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Department undertaken. Titles a
speciality.—Adyt.
It is daily becoming moie evident that, iu
•pite of the prosaic surroundings of Australian
social life, many hearts on this continent are
pregnant with the celestial fire of poetry. Mr.
John Rae, of Ironbark, Sandhurst (Vic.), has not
yet reached the summit of Parnassus, but he is
well on the way. His last idyll, entitled “ Lost! A
Kingdom for a Race,” appears in Edwards’ paper,
the Bendigo Independent. It details how a
powerful monarch rewarded one of his trusty
guards with the present of a distant city. On his
way to take delivery of his gift, the guard ob-
served a number of people tumbling over one
another to get through a gate. Being a studious
«an, he very naturally remarked:
“ ‘There must be something here,’ said he,
I’ll only just look in and see.’ ”
tie looked in. It was a horse-race, so he paid his
saoney and went on the stand. A stranger near
im said:
“ And if he would be rich that day.
He only had some bets to lay.”
Lt is unfortunate that Mr. Rae does not describe the
‘stranger,” but sad experience suggests to us that
«e was a man of unconventional manners, check
trousers, cut-away coat, seal-skin waistcoat,
spotted tie, heavy jewellery, large rings, dirty
fingers, greasy hair, and a nose like a dog’s hind
leg. So the guard took his advice, and went his
pile on Dirk Hatteraick. Then:
“ For all he had he ventured up
And lost it o’er the fatal Cup.”
“ His racing bets he could not pay
For not another cent had he,”
So once more he started on his road, having
slipped out while his stranger friend was explain-
ing matters to a couple of policemen. He tried to
beg his way, but—
“ His body failed him, for—alas!
It could not live on stones and grass.”
As an article of diet rocks, no doubt, have certain
disadvantages, especially when the teeth are bad
and there is a tendency to indigestion, but no
person need be above chewing grass for a living.
An ancient king had once to live on it for seven
years at a stretch, and the person who turns up
his nose at what was good enough for Nebuchad-
nezzar, deserves little sympathy. He struggled
despondingly on and died at the very gate of the
city he would have governed but for backing the
wrong horse. It will be seen from this that “ alle-
gory ” is Mr. Rae’s sphere. We shall look forward
with interest for his next effort. As science can
extract loveliest colours and odours from vilest
materials, so genius can transmute the common-
place surroundings of colonial life into subjects
for divinest song. There are plenty of such sub-
jects to be found in and around Sandhurst. It
was only the other day we heard that, in the exe-
cution of his duty, a municipal officer was lifted
over the Rosalind Park fence by a bellicose billy-
goat. Then there's the proposal to cut down the
Ironbark Hill, the suggestion of Councillor Bayne
to measure the water served out to the street-
carts, and the self-elected deputation of Messrs.
Joseph and Co. in favour of the Bendigo Hospital.
Any of these subjects, if treated in Mr. Rae’s in-
cisive style, would soon “bust up ” the petty
cliques that at present have it all their own way
in Sandhurst public matters.
The true story anent the proposed devia-
tion of the Tllawarra railway seems to run thus.
In June, this year, Premier Stuart minuted his
belief that the proposed line was a mistake, and
recommended a deviation by the Hacking Kiver.
Surveyor Anderson, after inspection, reported
that the deviation would be longer than the
original rout*', with far worse curves and gra-
dients. Whitton endorsed the report, and Wright
endorsed Whitton. It would only be just on the
ne sutor vltra crepidam principle, that Stuart
should pay the compensation which the contrac-
tors are entitled to for loss of time during the dis-
cussion of the question, i.e. from July 3 to October
10.
JFlunkeyism is Protean-shaped. Always
laughable, it is often offensive, and occasionally
hurtful. It was all three in Melbourne, a couple
of weeks ago, when Sir William Clarke gave a
party at the Town Hall. We have all heard of Sir
William, and many of us knew his father. The
old man left three or four millions to be divided
between three sons. Above the desire to accumu-
late money, for the mere sake of accumulating,
he never rose. The passion to amass was as strong
in him an hour before he became a mere lump of
protoplasm as when he first turned out a few sheep
on the wide plains of Su obury. When old—when the
border line separating this world from (let us say)
the next was within measurable distance—propped
with pillows, he would drive to the bank, lest the
guinea for his signature as a director might be
lost. When young, he would go miles out of his
road to loaf on a shepherd for a billy of tea, rather
than give a shilling for a meal at the nearest shanty.
His eldest son—the present Baronet—is as liberal
as his father was close. But he has no claim
whatever—and, in justice to him, it must be said
that he puts forward none—to be a great man,
whether as a scholar, a statesman, or in any walk
where greatness, properly understood, can be
secured. And this brings us to the party he gave
some days ago in the Melbourne Town Hall. It
was a purely private gathering—had no political
significance, and did not pretend to any. Yet,
partly in order that his guests might be spared the
noise of the insignificant outside world and the
prying eyes of the vvlgus, traffic was stopped for
hours in Swanston-street, while zealous policemen
chivvied the public who endeavoured to get a view
of beauty descending from its carriage. The
principal artery in a great democratic city was
tabooed to traffic on the occasion of a ball given
to his friends by a private citizen I For a parallel
to the flunkeyism of the Melbourne Corporation,
we have to go away back to the French preacher
who, after the original remark “ We must all die,”
turned to Louis XIV. with a profound obeisance,
and corrected himself with “at least, nearly
allor still further back to the divines
who wrote the biblical dedication to the dread
sovereign James I. Archibald Forbes has sur-
rounded the Kedmond Brothers and their
Australian mission with a chevaux-de-frise of
mendacity. But, when telling the English public
that, whatever gold could do in obtaining the
“open sesame” of London society, it was quite
powerless in Australia, he left all his previous
efforts miles behind. The case of Sir William
Clarke (Baronet— figure, ten thou.) and his party
Illustrates this. We have had far better opportu-
nities than the peripatetic dragoon of forming an
opinion on the subject, and our candid conclusion
is that an anthropoid ape with a million of money
would have no greater difficulty in obtaining the
entree to Antipodean “society” and choosing a
wife from the crime than—we are at a loss for a
simile—a Sydney swindler would have In obtaining
a verdict against a journal that told the world of
his rogueries.
Last Sabbath, owing to the dangerous
illness of the Vicar’s son, there was no service
morning- or evening at St. John’s (C.E.), Bega.
Considering the value attached to prayer by Par-
sondorn generally, and the fact that there is a
special prayer for the sick in the Anglican liturgy,
it was somewhat odd that service was dispensed
with. As the lad luckily recovered, the only in-
ference is that the prayers of the Church, when
one of the flock is in danger, are in no sort of way
material to the issue.
Baron Rammmgen married the Princess
Frederica of Hanover. He is of good family, and
proved himself in 1866 to be a brave and capable
soldier. But what are these trifles when weighed
against the deterioration in “ Royal blood ” that
resulted from the union ? The poor Princess’s
selection is looked upon as a shocking 1 mfacUliance,
and her husband is openly snubbed by his wife’s
family. Just as young Lome is pegged back when
he ventures a remark before his brothers-in-law.
Man is the same creature to-day that he was when
Swift described him as “a forked radish with the
power of locomotion and a curiously carved head.”
Hestill continues to place puppets on pedestals and
worship them, The puppets, naturally enough,
think the scheme of creation incomplete without
them, and despise the hands that support and feed
them. To the thinking man, there is something
profoundly humiliating in the eight of long rows
of bare-headed old men—the cream of a nation’s
intellect-bowing, scraping, and often trembling
with nervousness, in presence of a commonplace-
looking school-boy or girl whom teey have chosen
to govern them. It is in moments like these that
Byron s words rise unbidden to the lips:—
“ And when ye hear historians talk of thrones.
And those that sat upon them—let it be
As we now speak about the mammoth’s bones;
And wonder what old world such things could
see.”
We are breathing more freely after hear-
ing that Mrs. Langtry will silence scandal’s tongue
bv visiting Australia under the wing of her Mamma
(Mrs. Le Breton). Society will not be horrified by
the disgusting spectacle of Freddie Gebhardt car-
rying “ the Lily’s ” umbrella, or teaching her to
drive a pair of fiery steeds—'“ In a most open man-
ner, my dear.” Everything is going to be painfully
proper this journey. The Langtry will miss Fred.,
though; he made himself awfully useful.—
Lily had a little lamb
Whose Christian name was Fred,
His strong point was his Bank account,
His weak point was his head—
sang an American paper; and, seeing how many
suppers and pairs of “twelve-buttons ” the beauty
is sacrificing at the altar of propriety, let us trust
that the “uncoguid,” elders, etc. etc., will come
out uncommonly strong in the mutter of tickets
for her benefit. They ought to.—
LILY’S LARKS.
The girls of Australia breathe freely once more,
The beat of their pulses is steady,
Since learning that Lily will land on this shore
Without the assistance of Freddie.
She comes with an escort select and high-toned.
They all are rejoiced to discover;
In fact, it appears she will be chaperoned
By her own irreproachable mother.
No late little suppers in snug Ute-d-tite
(Oh, nothing so giddy and naughty);
Her conduct will now be supremely sedate
And dignified—not to say haughty.
No walks round the Block with a young cavalier
Whom gossip can name as her lover;
No sights such as that has Australia to fear—
For Lily will come with her mother.
No tit-bits of scandal at afternoon tea—
No whispers of love that’s illicit;
Oh, things will be proper as proper can be—
No Freddie, you know, on this visit.
The girls, we suppose, will be bound to resort
To finding out flaws in each other:
’Tis certal . that Lily will give them no sport—
Confound it, she comes with her mother I
From accounts published in London it
certainly appears that Alfonso’s reception' by
President GrtSvy was almost of a piece, in a polite
way. with that accorded him by the people in the
streets. President Grdvy did not hurry forward
to receive the King—a distinct and significant
neglect of etiquette, as a Sovereign always expects
to be met half-way by an equal. As the King ad-
vanced through the line of soldiers and by-
standers, he evinced some astonishment at not
finding the President ready to receive him. M.
Mollard perceiving this, hurried off to M. Grevy,
and said, “ Monsieur le President, the King has
already come three-fourths of the way.” The
President made no reply and no movement. Not
until the King was within two paces of him did he
unbend so far as to step forward and bid him
welcome in set terms, to which King Alfonso
replied in a few words. The incident occupied
only a few minutes, but those were minutes of
painful embarrassment. M. Gr<ivy, almost turn-
ing his back on the King, led the way to the car-
riages. With respect to the hubbub which fol-
lowed the hooting incident, placards were exten-
sively posted in Madrid, obviously by clear-headed
republicans “ Citizens, if you are urged
*o manifestations against Prance, do not make
them.” A despatch about a week later says:—
“Spanish public feeling is still much excited
against France, although several Democratic and
Republican organs advise the people not to allow
patriotism to carry them too far in this direction.
Commenting on the affair, a leading London
Radical paper says: “Alfonso lied when he said
that the unfortunate colonelcy was bestowed
upon him without his being aware of the Em-
peror’s intention. There is no fear of Spain as a
nation resenting the affront offered to their
monarch. They have no affection for him. The
bad blood of the Bourbons that circulates in his
veins militates against the people either loving or
respecting any of the loathsome brood. According
to common report in Madrid, his moral character
is of the lowest type. Spain at heart is essentially
republican, and the large majority of the Spanish
people will deeply sympathise with the French
Republicans who had the courage to hiss and hoot
a King that displeased them, just the same as
though he were an ordinary person. Loyal
demonstrations may be gotten up in a moment of
excitement, but the reaction may prove fatal to
the chief actors therein. Once let the Spanish
people believe that Alfonso is a mere puppet and
tool of Bismarck, which they shortly will, and his
days as Sovereign are numbered. Maybe that the
deluge of abuse heaped on the head of Alfonso in
France, and the popularity it seemed to have
gained for him in Spain, may operate in a salutary
manner on his moral and general behaviour. This
is, however, highly improbable, and we venture to
predict that before six months have elapsed the
crowd that on Tuesday hastened to the palace in
order to greet their King, will assist in ejecting
him from his regal residence, as they did his
mother.”
The new regulations for the sale of liquor
at N.S.W. railway stations have been published.
To the lessees only of the various refreshment
rooms licenses will be issued. Each license is to
run for twelve months, and cost £30. Any in-
spector can carry away samples of the stock for
analysis. There is to be no gaming on the pre-
mises, no supplying drunken persons, and no ad-
mission to rowdies. For vending alcohol to rail-
way officials on duty, the licensee is liable to a
penalty of not less than £10 nor more than £50
while the official demanding it is liable to dis-
missal.
Cole’s Book and Stationery Warehouse.
There are very few houses in the metropolis of Sydney more widely
known than that of Mr. E. R. Cole, which is situated at the corner of
George and King streets, and which has for the past fifteen years
been the great centre of trade in this city. For a considerable period
a portion of ihe upper and rear sections of the warehouse, shown in
the engraving, was occupied as offices by various firms; but their
term of occupancy having expired, and the business of the bouse
having assumed great proportions, the whole of the premises have
been absorbed, and now the five floors of the edifice, including the
basement, form a great catacomb, where between 400,000 and 500,000
boobs are stored for sale. And since the late fire, the new stock ad-
ditions amount to near upon a half, the completeness of the ware-
house with regard to all the latest publications can be easily estima-
ted. The great aim of the proprietor has been to enable the public
to know that the book they cannot get elsewhere, they are sure to
fet at Cole’s. And now as this is solid fact, the undertaking means a
ig thing. And to this end there are about twenty entirely’ separate
show-rooms or departments for the display of the various classes of
works; and for the purposes of selection, the public are admitted at
all times to every department. The only exception in the whole line
of publications not to be found at Cole’s is that of lawbooks. The
works for engineering and mechanical science, have separate depart-
ments, so also have the works on medical and electrical science, and
religion, education, &c. There is a separate branch likewise, for
nau tical works, charts, &c., and one also for mining, for pastoral and
agricultural, farming books of all kind, standard works on sugar
growing, stock raising, horse breeding, training, poultry farming;
works on house and ship builoing, road and railway making, and
civil engineering generally, works on photography, artistic painting,
house and home decorating, &c , &o. It is, in fact, from the thousands
of inquiries made through the Press by people in the interior for
standard works on this and that subject that Cole’s has developed
into an enormous emporium, where all the standard works from the
English, foreign and American Press, on every phase and branch of
colonial life or industry, are obtainable. Cole has 50,000 volumes of
standard practical wrorks, containing diagrams and complete instruc-
tions on any subject treated of. And as to light reading—well, any
novel or romance of note published during the last ten years up to
the very latest date is procurable at once from Cole’s. The whole
periodical Press of the English, Continental, and American cities have
a depot here —English, French, German, Italian, and American pub-
lications being found in profusion. In addition, Cole’s is the great
mercantile arid fancy stationery warehouse of the metropolis. At
♦■.he present time the shipments of Christmas Goods are arriving, and
the trade this year bids fair to eclipse everything of the past. And
from the variety and character of the goods sent out, this ought
certainly to he the case Take one line—Albums—and here is an
interesting fact. There’s not even a wholesale house in the colonies
which has the stock of albums which Cole has now for retailing. A
purchase of one particular line from the manufacturers amounted to
100 dozen, and these albums, which are about a foot square, hand-
somely clasped, and of most elegant appearance, are sold at from 2s.
to 3s. under even the wholesale price. In addition to these, are lines
of albums, manufactured to Cole’s special order—elegant Christmas
presents—on every page of which are shown, in splendid illuminated
effect, views of the flora and fauna of Australia, sketches of the
fernery of every clime under the sun, and landscape and historic ;
views of all parts. This line is entirely new, and is not elsewhere to !
be found. In addition, is an immensely valuable line of large
albums, richly bound in velvet, on which are magnificent bouquets
of hand-worked embossed flowers, &c. A 25-guinea hand-made
album, the best in all Australia, is shown among the collection.
Another great line of seasonable goods are the Christmas Cards and
Birthday Presents. Some are already to hand, but during the ensuing weet Mr r , , . ' r ~n —
that has never previously been introduced to this country. Particulars of this erand n Cu i C0 11 be °P e ?ed-and these are said to comprise novelties of a style
should send to Mr. Cole for a list of the publications on sale at his Cards will appear in a later issue. To conclude, readers in the country
»ein S liberal, every facility of receipt may be looked for, establishment. Every work required m almost every branch of industry is obtainable.audliTposta^arrangement


TATTERSALL’S CUP,
NEW TEAR’S DAY, 1884.
No. 1 CONSULTATION.
ENCOURAGED by past successes, I beg to
announce that I intend having a
SERIES OF CONSULTATIONS
on the above.
No. 1 is now open, and will close at the earliest
possible date.
.1 must request immediate application, so that
fortunate holders may have a good opportunitv
of hedging. ** *
Distribution as follows
First Horse £!000
Second Horse
Third Horse ’’ 200
Starters (divided among) .. 200
Non-Starters (divided among).. 200
£3000
Address—
“JANITOR,”
Care of E. E. Jones,
International Hotel, Sydney.
New South Wales Racing Com-
pany’s Consultation
os
TATTERS ALL’S CUP.
NOW OPEN—1884.
5000 Subscribers at lOs.
First Horse .. £1000 I
Second do 250
Third do 150 I
Starters divided.. 200 |
Non-starters
divided..
Prize Gifts..
RUN ON NEW YEAR’S DAT.
.. £200
... 700
£2500
W. BURNHARD, Secretary,
8 Wentworth Court, and Box 255 G.P.O., Sydney.
Water Police Offlee,
Sydney, 14th November, 1883.
NOTICE is hereby given, that a SPECIAL
MEETING of the Metropotitan Licensing
Court will be holden at the Water Police Court,
Phillip and Albert streets, Sydney, at noon on
THURSDAY, the 8th day of December, 1883.
P. C. LUCAS, C.P.8.
Lambton Athletic Club
President: Thomas Croudace, Esq., JP.
Vice-President: Dr. J. B. Nash, J.P.
Treasurer ; Mr. Bichard Ward.
T H S S&™ e x$ ub intend bolding their ANNUAL
MMllNu on
NEW YE AH’S DAY, 1884,
when £80 in Prizes will be competed for.
ALL COMEES’ GRAND HANDICAP; distance
150 yards. First prize, £20; second, £3 ; third,
£1. Entrance, 5s.
A MILE HANDICAP. First prize, £7; second,
£2 ; third, £1. Entrance, 3s.
NEW YEAR’S GIFT HANDICAP. Distance, 100
yards. First prize, £5 ; second, £1; third, 10s
Entrance, 3s. 6d.
HALF-HOUR’S GO-AS-YOU-PLEASE. First
prize, £4 ; second, £110s.; third, 10s. Entrance,
All rnnners must appear in running costume,
and state, at the time of entry, the colours in
which they will run; also, give a truthful account
of their performances for the previous twelve
months: if none within that time, the three last
is required. All entrances to be sent direct to the
Secretary, in whose hands they must be by the
16th December, and from whom all information
may be obtained.
JAMES MCWILLIAMS,
Hon. Secretary,
Lambton.
“A BULLETIN OR MANIFESTO.”
TF YOU ARE ABOUT TO FURNISH, you
J- cannot do better than write for a COPY OF
OUR NEW BOOK, containing revised HOUSE
FURNISHING LISTS, AND MEMOS. OF
REDUCED PRICES.— Post Free, Everywhere.
Campbell Brothers,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
BT* 42C GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
EEXT THE ROYAL HOTEL.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
tar THU PREMIER WHISKEY 18
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. Ivdla/tvLred.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
™ '“TASSSf™ 1 ® 111
It Is bottled In bond for Bxv rt at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, t. refore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ hiskey Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J, in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
Important Notice to every
Country Resident.
l Lamm mo,
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS,
235 & 237 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Are making great efforts to increase their
country trade. A Special Department fo
exclusive benefit of those who reside away
Sydney is now established.
The exorbitant prices country tailors charge are
almost prohibitive to many. We are changing* al
large
r the
from
TRY US I TRY US I
If you wish to get a real good tailor’s-made gar-
ment, write for our easy manual of self-measure-
ment, sent post free to all parts of the colony,
with patterns, styles, and tape.
Sydney Prices, Metropolitan Pit
and Workmanship.
Suits, to Measure £3 3 o
Trousers, to Measure O 10 O
ALL WOOL, AND SHRUNK.
ILL. Summerfield & Co,
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS.
ONLY SYDNEY ADDRESS-
235 and 237 PStt-street.
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS PERFORMED
WITH SKILL.
Teeth Stopped, and Exttraeted Painlessly
CRESWELL’S CHOICE SEEDS.
the following collection of
NEW GARDEN SEEDS will be forwarded
Wafes^— 6tUrn ° f P ° 8t t0 any Part ° f Ne ' vr 8outh
loz. Beet (blood red), loz. Borecole or German
Greens, loz. Brocoll, 3oz. Cabbage (early and
late), 2°z. Carrot (2 varieties), loz. Celery, loz
Cauliflower, loz. Cress (curled), loz. Mustard
(fine white), loz. Lettuce, loz. Parsnip, loz
Parsley (extra curled), 2oz. Onions (2 varied
ties), 4oz. Turnip (3 varieties), loz. Savoy,
loz. Spinach, 2oz. Radish (long and turnip). £
packets Melons (water and rock), I packet
Cucumber, 1 packet Pumpkin, 1 packet
Tomato, 1 packet Vegetable Marrow.
One half of above collection, 10s, post free 12
packets of choice assorted Flower Seeds, suitable
for present sowing, will be presented with each £1
post collection of Garden Seeds. Assortments of
Seeds, containing Peas and Beans, for transit bv
coach, rail, or steamer, for small or large gardens
from 10s, £1 £2, and £3 3s each. Payment* madi
by money order or, stamps.
C. F. CRESWELL, Seed and Plant Merchant,
474 George-atreat, Sydney.
PAINTS.
OILS
wall
PAPERS
AF Ii" w l ,< liOUSTACIa and VHISKES3. •EFOnc aftc
JDoyd'a Beard Elixir did this, and
trill do it on ctfher bald head or
bare face. Forres heavy Motts
tar he in front 2 fo 4 weeks and never
fails t 2*J,UX) young men already
wear full beards, having used I to
3 *omly applied 9 ter tain in ejf*rt. Backets is. fed
each, 3 for 3 a 6d post paid, sent under cover , free from observation
| Address, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent , Box 7J0, G.P.O., Sydney R
Copyrighted .
Copyrighted.
AYER’S PILLS.
A large proportion of the diseases which
cause human suffering result from derange-
ment of the stomach, bowels, and liver.
Ayer’s Cathartic Fills act directly upon
these organs, and are especially designed to
cure the diseases caused by their derange-
ment, including Constipation, Indiges-
tion, Dyspepsia, Headache, Dysentery,
and a host of other ailments, for all of
which they are a safe, sure, prompt, and
pleasant remedy. The extensive use of these
Pills by eminent physicians in regular prac-
tice, shows unmistakably the estimation in
which they are held by the medical profes-
sion.
These Pills are compounded of vegetable
substances only, and are absolutely free from
calomel or any other injurious ingredient.
A Sufferer from Headache writes;
“ Ayer’s Pills are invaluable to me, and
are my constant companion. I have been
a severe sufferer from Headache, and your
Pills are the only thing I could look to
for relief. One dose will quickly move my
bowels and free my head from pain. They
are the most effective and the easiest physio
1 have ever found. It is a pleasure to me to
speak in their praise, and I always do so
when occasion offers.
W. L. Page, of W. L. Page & Bro.”
Franklin St., Richmond,Va., June 3,1882.
“I have used Ayer’s Pills in number-
less instances as recommended by you, and
have never known them to fail to accomplish
the desired result. We constantly keep them
on hand at our home, and prize them as a
fleasant, safe, and reliable family medicine.
'OB DYSPEPSIA they are invaluable.
, j. T. Hayes.”
Mexia, Texas, June 17,1882.
The Rev. Francis B. Harlowe, writing
from Atlanta, Ga., says; “ For some years
past I have been subject to constipation,
from which, in spite of the use of medi-
cines of various kinds, I suffered increasing
inconvenience, until some months ago I
began taking Ayer’s Pills. They have
entirely corrected the costive habit, and
have vastly improved my general health.”
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills correct irregu-
larities of the bowels, stimulate the appe-
tite and digestion, and by their prompt and
thorough action give tone and vigor to the
whole physical economy.
PREPARED BY
Dr. J.C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists.
YOUNG,
OLD. AND
MIDDLE-
AGED.
All experience the wonderful
beneficial effects of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Children with Sore Eyes, Sore
AUtU. Ears, or any scrofulous or syph-
ilitic taint, may be made healthy and strong
by its use.
Sold by all Druggists; $1, six bottles for $5.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 15tfi November, 1883.
BORING MACHINES (OTHER THAN DIAMOND
DRILLS).
THE following conditions are published for the
mtormation of such persons as may desire to
Secure the use of Boring Machines (other than
Diamond Drills) belonging to the Department.
JOSEPH P. ABBOTT.
1. Applications for the use of Boring Machines
must be made in writing, addressed to the Under-
secretary for Mines, accompanied by the sum of
tw? pounds two shillings towards paying the cost
of inspection, if necessary (but such sum will be
returned to tbe applicant should inspection be
deemed unnecessary), together with a plan of the
land indicating thereon the site of proposed bore.
application must state the purpose for
which the bore is required to be put down, and the
approximate depth required to be bored.
2, Upon the approval of such application, an
inspection of the proposed site of the bore shall
be made, if deemed necessary, and if the same is
approved of, the applicant will be so informed,
and will be then required, within fourteen days,
to pay the sum ot ten pounds to the Under-
secretary for Mines.
3 The said sum so deposited will be returned to
the applicant upon the termination of the boring
operations required.
4. Every applicant will be required to enter into
a bond, with one or more sureties, as the Minister
may require, in a penal sum of not more than one
hundred pounds, the conditions of which shall
be
1st. That the applicant shall, on demand, pay
all charges lawfully due for the hire and
use of the machine.
2nd. That during the boring operations he will
supply all the horse and manual labour re-
quired to work the machine.
defray all the cost of such repairs as in
the opinion of the foreman are requisite.
4th. To pay the sum of five pounds per week
from the commencement ot the time of
the removal of the plant to the selected
site lor the bore until the completion of
the operations.
5th. To nay all the cost of the removal of the
machine to the site of the intended bore,
other than the railway charges.
6th. The whole of the boring operations shall
be under the control and charge of the
foreman, who will be appointed by* the
Minister, and who shall have the right to
dismiss any persons employed to assist him,
at any time, without assigning any cause.
7th. The Secretary for Mines shall have the
right, at any time, to suspend or terminate
the operations of the machine without
being liable to pay compensation to the
person for whom the same was boring.
8th. All payments shall be made by the person
using the machine in such manner and at
such time as the Minister may direct.
THE AUSTRALIAN
Diamond Drill Company.
CONTRACTS will be undertaken by the abere
Company to bore any sized holes, vertical er
horizontal, up to
3 INCHES, OR LARGER IF REQUIRED,
to any depth, at a reduction of 26 PER CENT
BELOW ANY PREVIOUS CHARGE.
The Company, in all cases, will find their own
fuel and water for drilling purposes, and will make
no charge for loss of diamonds or wear and tear on
plant, and will also provide workmen engineers, &c.
&T The new duplex barrel, introduced into the
colony by Mr. J. Coghian, will be used free ef
charge to persons searching for minerals.
Mr. Coglan has every confidence, from his prac-
tical knowledge of the Diamond Drill, that he will
be able to give as well as quick
despatch to all orderftgddressed to the
Temporary Offices, 311 Georgo-street.
JOHN COGHLAN,
General Manager, pro. tem.
io At-m
PATEN'
STEAM & HYDRAULIC GAUGES,
Engine and Boiler Fittings.
SCHAFFER & BUDENBERG,
of Magdeburg and Manchester,
XTAVE appointed the undersigned as their SOLE AGENTS for th
Australian Colonies. Orders for Steam, Vacuum, and Hydraul
Gauges, Thalpotasimeters, and all classes of Engine and Boiler Fitting
are solicited.
SCHAFFER and BUDENBERG carried off the
CHIEF AWARDS and MEDALS at the SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, an
ADELAIDE INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITIONS.
ME I CO., Sili Agents, SS7 George Street,
OPPOSITE HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
jlBBS, BRIGHT & CO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship
ping and Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO,, LIVERPOOL BRISTOlT
ANTONY GIBBS ft SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF : HONGKONG.
J-L. Goatling and Company (Limited)—Portland Cement.
The Tunnel Portland Cement Company (Limited)—Portland Cement
Crosaiey Brothers (Limited), Manchester—The celebrated “ Otto ” Silent Gas Engines.
Bow, M Lachlan and Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &c., &c.
Thos. Glover and Company, London—Patent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian and Sons —YeHow Sheathing: Metal.
Penyrorsedd Slate Company (Limited)—Bangor Slates.
The Quicksilver Mining Company, San Francisco— Quicksilver.
Feis and Company, of Patras and Corfu—Currants.
Thos. Bell and Co.—English Hams, Bacon, &c., &e.
Red Cross Preserving Company, Victoria—Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, &c.
Steii a Feao r i^ P Wlre,&c yanRe ’ * Yanc^Bar - Bod > and Sheet Iron - BoUer Plates, Iron and
Thos. Perry and Son, Bilston—Fire-resisting Safes. Drybrough and Co., Edinburgh—Ale
Bnintonand Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse. Thos. N. Hunt-Port WineT B iUe ’
Dubos Freres, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablis, Sautemes
XT a _ „ COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES.
JlSeraSco ® ° tt and MuUaly ’ T - AUfl °P- F - J - O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros,
Victoria.—James Fry and Co., W, and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
South Australia.—W. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hincks.
•*" INDENTS onto© most favourable terms, from all parts of the world. Consignments
of produce received for Shipment to London, under liberal advances.
THE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO.
nft are the largest consumers off American
H MUilWi Lo ? f . * n *he colonies, hence the FIRST
position for quality is assigned to their Twist
and Flat Tobaccos —Yankee Doodle, Conqueror, Sir Roger (thick
twist), R. C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture, and others.
CIOAKBTTES.-' Their CONQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold an equal position.
WTD. * 8.. Importers of Pipes of every kind, Cigars, aad all Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods and Sundries


-K.-p.AT> IT ALL
It may Save your Life.
hop bitters
ASM
The Purest and Best
Medicine erer made.
THEY ARB COMPOUNDBD FROM
Hops, Buchn, Mandrake, and Dandelion,
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
* and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and in addltien contain all the best
‘and most effective curative properties
‘ of all other hitters, being: the greatest
‘ liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
‘and life and health restoring agent on
* earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Aped
and Infirm.
‘‘To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
‘ Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
‘ irregularities of the Bleod, Stomach
* Rowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
‘ Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are Invaluable, being
‘ highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
‘ without intoxicating. ’
«No matter what your feelings ©r
‘ symptoms are, or what the disease or
* ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don t
‘ wait until you are sick, but if yon only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun-
* dreds have been saved by so doing, at
* a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
* friends suffer, but use and urge them to
‘use Hop Bitters.”
•‘Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
•drugged, drunken nostrum, but the
‘purest and best Medicine ever made,
‘and no person or family should be
‘without ft.”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO.,
Melbourne, Australia, Rochester, N. Y.,U. I
A., Toronto, London, Antwerp, Paris.
GRAHAM
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment,
543, late 531, George-etreet, Sydney.
Gentusmbm,—I respectfully beg leave to bring
under your notice the superior style and fit of our
Trousers, which are out on the same unerring
principles as those which have made the name of
Hmn, Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion in the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either in sitting, riding
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor braces
fall smoothly over the hoot, and maintain their
position in every attitude of the body.
They are designed to fit the corpulent as well
the slight figure, and are engaged to give to all the
meet perfect satisfaction.
A single trial will suffice to establish their claim
on your patronage.
I am. Sir,
Yourobedlent Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM.
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION., _
BILIOUSNESS, LIYHR COMPLAINT, WEAK-
NESS. Ac.
PRICE.
9s. fld.
Prepared by A. Q. KEBBLEWHTTF, Cmaa.Br, An.
43 BRSKINB STREET.
Bold by W. H. SOUL, and all Chemists.
DdM’T Dim IS CM* Hows*.—“ Rough on Bats”
clears out rats, mica, beetles, roaches, bed-bugs,
ties, amts, mseots. males, jack-rabbits, gophers.
Moses, Moss & Co.. Sydney, General Agents.
Printed and Published by Thu Bulldtik News-
paper Co. (Limited), *4 Pitt-st., Sydney, N.8.W.
It is simply impossible for a fat man to be
a real masher. He may sport the regulation collar;
he may wear his coat so short that the vest shows
beneath It: hot he can’t be a successful masher.
A masher must have thin legs, and a head shaped
like a pine-apple. He must have dimples behind
his ears, and ears big enough to hide them. Now,
a fat man, or a chubby, plump, rotund youth, can
never answer to these specifications. He cannot
look sad and vacant and bilious. He is bound to
perspire In weather like this; to get red in the
face, and to fan himself. A masher never per-
spires, nor does any of those other things. He is
always cool, always buttoned up, always im-
perturbable.
Falconer (widow of an employee of the
Waterworks Co. killed by a tram) v. Commissioner
fo Railways, tried ©n Thursday last before Wm-
deyer J., resulted in a verdict for plaintiff,
o a mages £3500, £1000 to the widow, balance to be
divided amongst the children. Jury (an intelh-
aent one for a wonder) found that there had been
negligence on delendant’s part in alio wing two
trams to overlap at a stopping place; in not keep-
ing said stopping-place sufficiently well lighted.
In not keeping a look-out in front of the tram till
it had actually stopped; and in not keeping a man
to look out in front besides the fireman on the
engine when the fire is at the hack of the engine,
and requires attention while the tram is in
motion.
The Advocate is the Melbourne Catho-
lic-Irish mouthpiece. “ Peutetre”-probably a cor-
ruption of “po-tator”—attends to the historical
and theological departments. In him the church-
militant finds its doughtiest champion. Foils are
not much in his line. Whm he tattles the Re-
fomntion,” or Protestant views on thi Immaculate
Conception, he does it with a junk of firewood.
He doesn’t pelt his adversaries with rose-leaves,
or stop to select hread-and-hutter phrases for the
enforcement of his opinions. Not much. Like
the old Irish priest with his rowdy flock, he shoots
into the ring with a club, and has the dispute
settled while a more diffident champion would be
pulling off bis glove. The Telegraph (Mel.) had
a fulsome article on the “ Solitary Monk a 1 v
days ago, and this Is how“Peutetre flattens
out:—“ It will be noticed .... how then!
lainous Protestant lie is confuted at every step in
Luther’s life This is the reason why
Protestants mis-spond so much of their time in
telling lies about the state of education when
Luther arose. Well, these liars tell us always who
S instructed Luther. ... In order to show how
Martin was inoculated with the Reformation small-
pox which has so hideously deformed the fair face
1 of Christianity. . . . The Daily Telegraph
may not have requested help either from Lucifer
or Luther, but contented itself with sending to
l the Yarra Bend for the foolishest fat scullion sor
' of lunatic the institution has on hand. . . . Bu
i. il. n t B pnt for and got any such kind of
Thomas wilker had clubbed their babooneries,
JJJS” miTtnre mijrht fear to compare itself witn
the D T.’s agonising elaborate mess of b ru t®teuo r *
S? boorjh effrontery.
malevolence • • • sums “ th«nrime
STiW tor
us. It carries conviction with it. To escape from
the bald platitudes of ordinary argu ment into the
stimulating atmosphere of “Peutetre,” is like a
whiff of ozone to the city toiler.
TROUBLOUS TIMES AT THE BULLETIN OFFICE.
In an unguarded moment the Pro-
prietors of The Bulletin said to a Con-
tractor, “enlarge our building for us,
to meet the wants of our rapidly-increas-
ing business, and dash the expense.
The Contractor aforesaid dashed the
expense, and brought about chaos at
once.
The Editor of our Reli-
gious column hastily
placed a few bricks in
his hat, and adjourned
sine die to the nearest
“ pub.”
“ I’ve a precious good mind
to drink every bloomin’ drop
of it,” said the scientific young
man who presides over the
Poison department when they
took the roof off from over his
head and mixed brick-dust and
mortar with his chemicals.
The Editor-in-chief said unto
himself, “ I must be an example
of fortitude to those around me
in this trying ordeal,” and con-
tinued to write powerful leaders,
amid the hail of falling bibris,
and shrieks of “copy” from
wounded and dying compositors.
A Valued Contributor heroi-
cally borrowed an umbrella,
and kept right on writing
valued contributions under con-
ditions that would have appalled
a less valued contributor.
“ If I can be of any ser-
vice to you at this mo-
ment of trial,” said a
friend who dropped in
to have an hour’s “yarn”
with the Editor, “just
command me!”
He was commanded as
above.
The Fighting Editor took re-
fuge in the catacombs connected
with the establishment, where he
pursued his pious meditations. A
penny dip, inserted in an empty
cod-liver oil bottle, shed a ghostly
glare upon the weird scene.
“Pay your bill!” exclaimed the cashier, irritably.
“How the deuce can I pay anybody's bill when lean t
get the sale open beeause of the rain that has come
fn since they took the roof off, and rusted the look !
Our Comic Artist pursued his arduous labours
under every disadvantage Indeed, his apology for
the apparent crudeness o£ this series of sketches is,
“ Ho w the ce can you expect a cove to draw funny
pictures with his .... eyes full of tion lime
and ted brick-dust.”
