

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 1. —No. 25. —New Series
SATURDAY. NOVEMBER 3, 1883.
Price—6d.
THE CIRCULATION OF “ THE BULLETIN ”
IS NOW MORE THAN DOUBLE THAT OF
ANY OTHER WEEKLY NEWSPAPER IN
N.S. W.~THAT OF ONE VERY OLD ESTAB-
LISHED PAPER, WHICH EXCEEDS “ THE
BULLETINS” BY ABOUT ONE-FIFTH,
ALONE EXCEPTED. THE CIRCULATION
OF “ THE BULLETIN ” IS THE SECOND
GREATEST AMONG THE WEEKLIES OF
AUSTRALASIA.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1883.
Killing and Torturing.
Mb. A. G. Taylor has introduced a Bill to
abolish flogging as a punishment for offences
of blackguardism, as recently enacted. We
are not greatly concerned to know what
Mr. Taylor’s motives may be, and are con-
tent to receive a good thing on its abstract
merits. The flogging clauses of the Criminal
Law Amendment Act were accepted in a bit
of a hurry. Little genuine interest was taken
in the Bill when before Parliament by lay
members of either House, and practically the
law was fashioned into its present shape by
a committee of lawyers. Still, the flogging
clauses received more attention than many
other features of the measure, and their
adoption may be said to have been due
to a prevalent acquiescence in the idea
that, repugnant although they might be as
a matter of feeling, they had become
requisite for the maintenance and defence of
public security and decency. Now, we do
not champion the larrikins’ cause. We have
sworn a terrible vendetta against him and
all his tribe. His appearance, dress, exple-
tives, and expectoration—everything about
him, from the capacious bottoms of his
pantaloons to the leer on his bestial mouth—
sets our teeth on edge. For endeavouring to
wipe out him and his belongings, we were
subjected to a legal discipline which at last
promises to bear fruit in the repeal of half-
obsolete laws. If some comprehensive means
were proposed, such as the judicious applica-
tion of an electric current sufficiently
powerful to resolve his system into its
chemical equivalents, we would support it.
To his bawls under what Froude calls the
“pressure of the lash,’ we would be as deaf
as James II. to the appeals of Monmouth,
did we not think the remedy worse
than the disease.
•
But we hold that in nations claiming
a high place in civilisation the day
for phvsical torture has gone by. We
hold, further, that communities which
cannot keep their rascaldom in check
without means more abominable than
the rascality to be kept under, cannot, in
fairness, demand a foremost place in the
march of progress, and should keep a dis-
creet silence when they hear of Russian
knoutings or Turkish bastinadoings. And,
further still, we hold that, by whipping a
ruffian here and there, you shock the feelings
of thousands of decent people, while leaving
untouched the subsoil in which this rank
growth of blackguardism thrives. There is
such a thing as debauching or brutalising a
community. The blunting of the finer feel-
ings of those who witness the infliction of
exquisite physical torture, and of the much
larger number wh o read of it in the daily
papers, is out of 11 proportion to the terror
inspired in the rank of larrlkinism. Thus,
even in the suppression of crime, it is pos-
sible to pay too much for your whistle.
Every stroke which scars a larrikin’s back
creates an induration, not merely of the
wounded cuticle, but also of the sensibili-
ties of the public mind. It has been too
Ughtly assumed that flogging is a preventive
of ruffianism, just as it is held without evi-
dence that hanging is a preventive of mur-
der. Either expedient is the resource of a
reckless despair. When the patriarch Job
sat in the dust, afflicted with boils and
blains, his “comforters” counselled him to
curse God and die. Just so when society
breaks out into plague spots, and human
wisdom fails to devise a remedy, the Job’s
counsellors of the day raise their voices in
advice to curse the Creator and fling back
to Him the souls he has sent into the world.
• • •
Hangings and floggings constitute most
pitiful confessions of failures of faith.
The influence of moral suasion is there-
by practically admitted to be impotent.
The Churches admit themselves powerless to
call to repentance the very sinners who most
need their ministrations. True, it is seldom
a doomed wretch ascends the scaffold with-
out making a sickening profession of assur-
ance that he is about to climb straight to
Heaven —by arope. But, if there were any
reality in these convulsive repentances, it
would be distinctly desirable that mankind
should undertake one vast and comprehen-
sive auto-da-fe, and that the godly should
set to work to hang the ungodly en masse, so
that, instead of dying comfortably, but im-
penitent, in their beds, they should leap to
eternal life, off the gallows. If the system
be regarded in the abstract, the folly of it
must be immediately apparent. It will be
conceded, no doubt, that there is no ex-
pectation of distilling a spirit of grace and
gentleness in a man’s heart by breaking his
hopeless offenders,and the hanging judge, the
hangman, and the torturer take up the task.
And it must be admitted that these func-
tionaries enter upon their functions with a
degree of zeal and confidence which contrasts
strongly with the languor and dubiety of
their reverend and philosophic precursors.
They are troubled with no doubts respecting
their own efficiency, and would laugh to
scorn any question as to the permanency of
the good they effect. “ Hang a man, and
there’s an end of him,” they declare. Yet
there is philosophy to the contrary. “ The
evil that men do lives after them; the good
is oft interred with their bones.” It may be
confessed that people may—nay, will—
be puzzled at times to know what to
do with offenders. There are brutes who
neck or his skin. The idea is that there are
certain human beings whose souls are so
encrusted that it is beyond the art of even
missionaries to insinuate the light of the
Gospel through the casing. The influence
of prayer halts at the threshold of these
hard-shell souls; and, although faith will
move mountains, it is evident no one
has faith in the possibility of driving
the evil spirit out of a lot of rowdies
whose ages vary from fourteen to four-and-
twenty. The Churches have given up the
larrikins, and turn in despair from them to
the more hopeful and picturesque savages
of the Pacific islands.
♦ ♦ ♦
All that is expected now is to scare.
Society must be protected. So the moralist
and the missionary turn their backs on the
seem to live only to scourge society. But
it is a monstrous thing that society, being
puzzled, should rush into brutal and des-
perate extremes. To be at one’s wit’s end
about Smith is no sufficient reason for
killing him, and to be disgusted and hope-
less with the bestiality of Jones is no suffi-
cient reason why society should itself turn
brute and torture him.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
One of Abraham’s Latest.
That £76,700 which the Very Rev. Dr. Backhaus,
the pious and exemplary R.C. Dean of Sandhurst,
made in his day by watching and praying and other
apostolic exercises, has raised a row. Heinrich
Heine once besought Heaven to save his country
from the presence of an illustrious man. The in-
spired poet saw, with that frenzied rolling eye of
his, that illustrious men, if they do not create dis-
sension while alive, are sure to “raise hell ” when
they die. From Homer, over whom seven cities
fought, to Carlyle, over whom Moncurb Con-
way preached, the fate of great men has ever
been to be made either while alive the ruthless
victims of the Scriptural jaw-bone, or when
dead the victims of a no less murdering “Jaw.”
We are not surprised, then, to find that even
the saintly Backhaus comes in for “slops’
when dead. The poor dear dead divine, who had
vowed to walk in the footsteps of the sacred
Founder of the great system of self-denial known
far and near as Christianity; the gentle man of
God, to whom the widow was a sister and the
orphan a son; the tender-hearted, fatherly pastor,
who rose dally ready to lay down his life for his
flock; the minister of God, by whose hands the
bread of life was dally broken, and from whose
lips the waters of life daily ran; he who wore the
white stole of innocence and the black cassock of
the poor in spirit and the meek of heart; he who
eloquently and piously, and with tears running
down his shaven cheeks, made the faithful believe
that a camel could pass through the eye of a needle
as easily as a rich man enter the kingdom to which
alone he was consecrated, to which alone it was
the purpose of his life to lead the world, which
alone was worth striving for, living for, fasting
for, dying for—he, that Dean of Sandhurst; he,
that priest of the Church of God; he, that light of
the world, that salt of of the earth; he, out of the
hard earnings of a hard-worked poor, out of the
mite of the widow, out of the penny of the orphan
out of the dues of the cheats, and the annual
offerings of f shionable devotion; out of the tricks
of tra ie and the schemes of cozeners—put the
pennies together, and the pounds together, and
went on putting them together, though statlsticans
declared that poverty was wide-spread, though he
saw its rags with his own eyes, and heard its walls
with his own ears; though it rioted In back-slums
and made hideous the night with its voices of des
pair; though wherever he looked there were
hunger and squalor, and eyes blind with hopeless-
ness, and spirits broken with bootless travail,
and hearts dead to the warmth of the sunshine
and the beauty of God’s fields and skies. He went
on putting the pennies and the pounds together*
until God, in His infinite mercy, took him up to
heaven twelve months ago. His property, real
and personal, then totalled £76,700. This is not
counting his soul, of course. His soul Is up in
Abraham’s bossom, without doubt, and making
sweet intercession, as Is the manner of saints.
With the intercession of Backhaus, and the poli-
tics of Berry, if Victoria does not become a Para-
dise, then it is because there is truth at the bottom
of human society and a God at the top of it. But
as we see the heirs-at-law of Abraham’s latest
acquisition struggling in the Equity Court of Judge
Molesworth— Bishop Goold claiming a whaek.
Father Tierney claiming a whack, the saint’s
nephew claiming a whack, the saint’s housekeeper
claiming a whack, and Lawyers A’Beckett and
Madden and Higgins and Webb and Topp sawing
the air for a share of the plunder amassed by theo-
logical thievery, we say “Thank God that some
men have a taste for keeping bush shanties, and
others for running swindling sweeps; for, if they
all became ministers of the Gospel, we fear much
that our profound faith in the purity, self-denial,
meekness, charity, and all-round brothely love of
the professional champions of Christianity would
be, at least to some little extent, shaken.” We
dread this; for we know that if we let anything
shake our faith in these things we shall, as surely
as we live, be body and soul damned.
THE HON. W. J. TRICKBTT, POSTMASTER GENERAL.


XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
M
ELBOURNB
XX
RACES. XX
XX
If you are going- to Melbourne,
save their Import Charges by
purchasing all you want
In Sydney.
And nowhere in Sydney can you
buy cheaper than at HORDERNS’
well-known Warehouse,
in PITT-STREET.
Our Costumes and Millinery
are simply perfect.
Silver Lace Para-
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
s
XX
XX
XX
XX
PARACHUTES I o &SF&&SSS* ff
) for the races, i guinea. X3
t a | _ Summer Tweed
JACKETS > Jackets, very choice,
) one guinea.
Dp not forget our address,
HORDERN BROTHERS,
174,176, 209 and 211, Pltt-street.
Drapers and Costumiers
Hordern brothers’.
211, PITT-STREET,
wish to direct your particular attention
to the
following new arrivals,
NEW SHAPES In HATS & BONNETS.
The Empress, Queen, Mar hioness, ax
Countess, New Duchess, Pembroke, XX
Ripple, Jasmine, Brighton, Wllden XX
Alexandria, Gilllard, Ateka, Rosalind XX
Carlingford, lolanthe, New Wheeler XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX Cherries, Grapes, Apricots, Straw-
XX berries, Currants, Apples, Raspberries,
Acorns, &c., &c.
55 NEW FLOWERS,
55 SPRAYS,
-XX and
55 WREATHS,
XX in
XX Terra.Cotta, Crushed Strawberry, and
xx Dried Rose
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xx
xx
xx
xx
xx
XX
XX
XX
xx
XX
xx
xx
Violet, &c., &c.,
in plain and mixed coloured straw.
NEW FRUIT SPRAYS and WREATHS.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
fl
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xx
XX
XX Lilies, Marguerites, Chrysanthemums xx
XX Carnations, Poppies, Sunflowers, Pansies XX
55 Jonquils, Snowdrops, Forget-me-nots XX
XX Passion Flowers, Geraniums, Violets, XX
XX Jasmine ’ yy
55 Wallflowers, Oleander, Daisies, Holly, XX
XX Ivy, Hawthorn, Clematis, Acacia. XX
XX Combination Wreaths, for Hair and XX
55 „ , Dress, gold silver, xx
55 Mourning and Half-mourning Flowers XX
x * and Wreaths.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
TRIMMED HATS,
in the newest styles, 7s lid to 21s.
TRIMMED BONNETS
Ditto ditto, 10s 6d to 45s.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
vy
vy In £ he a 5?7 e ,^ e have mentioned a XX
55 v®ryfewof the thousand and one items. XX
55 an Berv , e j y°u with all you want XX
XX a draper ought to keep. XX
55 ri Man °hcster Goods, Dress Stuffs, Silks, XX
XX Crapes, Satins, Velvets* Hoisery, Gloves XX
XX Laces, Haberdashery, Mantles, Carnets’ xx
XX Blankets, Bedsteads. Oilcloths ® XX
XX linery. Parachutes, Scents, Soaps, Wools, XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
and Ribbons.
ANYTHING and EVERYTHING.
SEE OUR GRAND DISPLAY
of
ALL SORTS OF GOODS,
fashionable and good,
and with a reasonable price.
IN OUR WINDOWS TO-DAY.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Only Address—
HORDERN BROTHERS,
a a . 209.211, PITT-STREET. XX
XX Bight In the Centre of all the Drapers. XX
X xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx XX
X xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx XX
P. R. HOLDSWORTH,
AUCTIONEER, VALUATOR,
House, Land & Estate Agent
63 ROYAL ARCADE, PITT STREET.
MOUNT DRUITT RAILWAY STATION.
To Close a Partnership.
PR. HOLDSWORTH will sell by public auo-
• tion, on the Ground, on SATURDAY, 24th
November, 1883, at 3.30 p.m.,
The new and village of
bounded on the north by the Mount Druitt
Railway Station, on the south by the Great
Western Road.
Torrens’ Title, Liberal Terms.
Long Credit No Interest.
Large Allotments. Good Position.
Wide Roads. Public School.
Free train and beautiful views.
Plans ready,
63 ROYAL ARCADE, PITT STREET.
MINTO. MINTO. MINTO.
PRELIMINARY ANNOUNCEMENT.
FOR SALE by auction, on the Ground, at an
early date, by
P. R. HOLDSWORTH,
The larget and best portion of the
TOWN OF MINTO.
Title of this portion—TORRENS’.
Terms of the most liberal character.
SPECIAL TRAINS. FREE TICKETS.
AIR-TIGHT SHOW CASE COIUPT.,
67 GEORGE STREET WEST.
The Rates of Subscription to The Bulletin
are—For one year, 24s.: half-year, 12s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—In advance.
The Advertising Bates are 5s. per inch;
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
Inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows ."—On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions,
16 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 28 per
cent. No allowance can bt made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps ©f any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
Coughs and Colds.
rHB Best Cure for the above Is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
8s. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Battle Iijirtuit,
O. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET,
where you can obtain for
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDT, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
Is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
Tub most Wholesome or all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY.
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELI8H WHISKY,
8s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEB PORT,
3s. per bottle.
HENNBSSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY.
6s. 6d. per bottle.
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
is sold in this department.
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street, Sydney,
It
SHOP, OFFICE,
AND
HOTEL-BAR FITTERS.
Air-tight Show Cases.
SHOP FRONTS
IN THE
NEWEST DESIGNS,
AT
LONDON PRICES.
Contractor* to the Sydney Technological Muieum,
Design* and Estimates Furnished on application#
A Lost Opportunity.
The holy fathers who have determined to punish
Mr. Osborne because he actually attended a Re-
quiem Mass, read for the soul of a Papist Arch-
bishop, and In a “ Roman ” cathedral, miss a huge
advantage. Suppose, now, that, in lieu of their
denouncing their courageous brother, they made
up their minds to go and do likewise, every chance.
Observe what a splendid march they would thus
gain upon the priests. The religion of Christ is
simply the cultivation of neighbourly love ; and
one’s neighbour Is sharply defined, by a very clear
parable, as the most unlikely man, or the man of
the most unlikely order or caste, that you can
think of. To the Israelite of old, this was accen-
tuated by instancing a Samaritan. Now, the rela-
tion between the Israelite and the Samaritan could
not be better matched in our own days, and in
this community of N.8. Wales, than by Methodist
and Papist. Christ’s teaching unmistakably is
that the Papist is the “neighbour,” in the sense
conveyed in the parable, of the Methodist, and that
the Methodist is the “neighbour” of the Papist.
Now there is not a Papist priest In all Australia
who would bend the knee in a Methodist Church,
or even enter one while divine service was pro-
ceeding. Not a single individual priest has ever
shown a disposition to do so. And if one did so
far depart from rule and precedent, he would be
censured and punished by the authorities of his
church. Now there is one Wesleyan clergyman
who has adopted the spirit of Christ’s teaching,
and has entered the house of mourning of his
“neighbour” and bent the knee with that neigh-
bour in his affliction. This is a grand testimony
for Wesleyanlsm. That Christian church thus
shows Itself nearer Christ’s teaching—nearer by
one man exactly—than the Roman Catholics
are. Yet the authorities of that one man’s
church are blind to the moral. Instead of perceiv-
ing that a leader had arisen in Israel, instead of
recognizing the Inspiration which prompted the
example, instead of following in a body with a
mighty shout of gladness, and climbing all nearer
to their Master’s teaching than these Papists'
whom they hold in such dislike and dread, they
feebly imitate their system and pour censure upon
their large-minded brother—for surpassing the
Roman Catholic priesthood in Christian charity.
What a mighty opportunity I And how neglected
and abused 1
VR.
£500 Reward.
Whereas—Bah 1 to perdition with the formal
phraainga I Five hundred pounds forthcoming for
vengeance -while for the reformation of society
there is not even the courage of one’s opin-
ions, or the pluck to look facts In the face.
That J8600 reword is offered for the discovery
and conviction of the wrong men, as all who read
It know. It would be worth five hundred millions
to elicit, so distinctly that there could be no mis-
apprehension, who* are the persons or classes, or
what the system, which have embruted a portion
of mankind to such a depth that outrage such as
finished the wretched life of Elizabeth Phillips
became possible. There is no mistaking the facts.
In every so-called civilized community there exist
“ the dangerous classes.” It is only among
savages, so called—only among the barbarians to
whom we send missionaries, and for the sal-
vation of whom Princesses turn shopwomen.
and daughters of Moab bare their necks and their
ankles to draw admission-fees from Libidinousness
disguised as Charity, that there are no “ dangerous
classes.” Yet there is no politician so honest and
devoted, no clergyman so self-saorlflcing and inde-
pendent, as to recognise and point the moral that
civilisation is constructed on false lines and must
be re-modelled. Is it not absolutely demonstrated
that brutality and poverty are inseparably allied—
that, deluge a man or a family with gold,
or even endow him or them with competence,
and his nature or their nature commences
to soften ? Three or four generations of com-
petence will produce “ gentle ” men — will
•volve them out of very ruffians. And three
or four generations of grinding poverty and
hopelessness will develop desperadoes and brutes
out of the progeny of saints and heroes. Given
sharp enough want, the grand-daughters of chaste
Luorboe would be on the streets, or complaisantat
a Sunday-school picnic. There is no reward
offered for Information as to who is responsible
for the inequalities which grind one class into
hopelessness and recklessness, and pamper
another class to lechery and selfishness. Let us
have a reward offered for information as to who
or what made brutes of Elizabeth Phillips’
murderers; and another for conviction and expo-
sure of the man or men who first destroyed
Elizabeth Phillips and flung her to be torn—
sooner or later—by the dogs, as she has been. Not
only is there no reward, there are heavy penalties.
To criticise the constitution of modern civilized
society is a crime which all the sham-great and alj
the mock-holy combine to visit with vamped-up
ladlgnatlon, and real indignities. To place the
finger upon the man who used a woman—Eliza-
beth Phillips was once a beautiful woman, and
was so used by rich men in Sydney—and having
rifled her sweetness, flung her like last night’s
bouquet, out o’ window, to be picked up by a less
extravagant sensualist, and by and bye tossed into
the gutter, Is a detestable libel, which grave
Judges would with solemn humbug condemn.
And now, let us sing a little hymn. From the
Imperial Review. A little hymn blazing with
the true Are of a human thought which is a living
flame in millions of hearts to-day. Thus :—
“ THE METEOR.
“ Twenty-seven years ago,
I lost my little sister.
I remember that I stood,
Outside our garden gate at Richmond,
Sore and wounded for my loss,
When sweet Miss D passed by.
She stooped and kissed me,
Placed her arms round my neck, and said,
“ Poor Herbert, well 1 knew her,
Our dear Rose. We liked her so.”
Why has this memory remained,
When all condolers else are now forgot ?
Because ’twas from a deep, full soul.
Because there was the ring of sympathy.
Ah, poor Miss D 1
She fell before the wiles of villainy,
Oh, my heart, it tears the depths,
E'en though I now am middle-aged.
This memory to me has been a blight.
’Tis one Indictment ’gainst Society.
At times I’ve thought 1 had forgot the thing.
Only last week
I read the man had lost a son,
Not poor Miss D ’s—No. For she
Was flung upon the world as dirt.
The revenge she took was cruel,
In ruining men. The Meteor she was called.
Whene’er her name recurred
On jesting lips, to me ’twas as a knife.
Oh, Juggernaut Society!
Why will you wring and wound me thust
My mind is poisoned and conspiring.
I can hide my time with others,
And pull the rotten fabric down
When all is ripe.
Poor Meteor I
Are you alive ? One there is
In whose sweet recollection you’re embalmed.
You were not—are not—bad.
Perhaps, like Lola Montes,
You have become, or will become, a Saint
E’en on this globe.
Passion, Lust, Rage, Revenge,
These burn away. Poor Meteor!
Will thy soul again become the soul of ’56 ?
I’m writing here no jingle-jangle.
No sentimental flimsy poetry,
I’m cutting it out of my heart.
With me a memory
Is * a thing of beauty and a joy for ever,’
It will never perish. Grey hairs
Will not destroy the boy.
So Meteora,
The Falling Star of Melbourne, London,
Paris, mayhap, and where else God knows,
Perchance death in the streets. To me
She is still the sweet kindly soul
Who poured the balm then into mine.
I’ll not wrench that memory forth,
Nor could I if I would.
No clergyman e’er spoke so kind to me.
Her soul arose and swelled to mine,
As she had been another Sister.
Sister Meteora I
A good deed blossoms and grows,
The cup of cold water becomes a barrel.
I know that you ought now to be a Mother,
A sweet kind matron, with grown-up sons,
And noble, virtuous daughters.
You were sinned against, not sinning ;
You trusted and you were deceived.
Hence this blasting, scathing, withering,
Hence this storm let loose.
This runaway engine.
But there’s an end to all.
On Evil as on Good is writ,
‘ This, too, shall pass away.’ ”
The Hon. W. J. Trickett, Postmaster-
General.
We give in this issue a portrait of Mr. William
Joseph Trickett, senior member for Pad-
dington and Postmaster-General of New
South Wales, who was born on the 2nd of
September, 1842. His education began at St.
Phillip’s Grammar School, was subsequently
carried on at the Sydney Lyceum, and com-
pleted at the Sydney Grammar
where he attained a high position in classics
and mathematics. Leaving the latter insti-
tution at the age ©f 17, he became a law
student, and at22 was admitted as a solicitor.
Shortly afterwards he entered into partner-
ship with Mr. W. H. Pigott. The firm
carried on a successful business until a few
months ago, when Mr. Trickett retired for
the purpose of devoting his time more fully
to public affairs. He held the office of law
examiner, and his professional position has
always been deservedly high. For ten years
he has been an alderman of Woollahra. was
was three times elected to the Mayoral
chair, and his name is closely identified with
the advancement of that thriving borough.
In 1881 Mr. Trickett was elected senior mem-
ber for Paddington. At the subsequent
general election, his constituents’ confidence
in him was evidenced by their re-electing him
by a larger majority than on the previous oc-
casion, and in him the electors of Paddington
have secured a representative whose atten-
tion to their local wants is constant and
willing. In politics, Mr. Triokett’s views
are emphatically liberal. He was instru-
mental in passing the Stipendiary Magis-
trates’ Act, and many others. During a
hurried trip to Europe ana America in lo82,
Mr. Trickett embraced every opportunity of
acquiring useful information, and his pub-
lished “Notes of Travel” showedhow, while
absent from the colony, he had its interests
at heart. In May last Mr. Trickett accepted
the portfolio of Postmaster-General of
New South Wales, and was re-elected for
Paddington without opposition. He has
proved himself a painstaking and hardwork-
ing Minister, and many substantial reforms
have been already effected by him in the
department under his control. By his
actions and utterances he has shown how
thoroughly at home heisin theposition, and
how desirous that the Postal Department of
New South Wales shall not be behind the
times. From his present successes, Mr.
Triokett’s career as a public man will be
watched with more than ordinary interest.
The Benighted Heathen.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The naked negro, panting at the Line,
Boasts of his golden sands, and palmy wine,
Basks in the glare, or stems the tepid wave.
And thanks his gods for all the good they gave.’’
The Traveller.
In beautiful language, and exquisite rhyme.
The Traveller ” tells how, in each nation and
clime,
The manners and customs that each race Invest
To each seem to be far the wisest and best;
And wherever a mortal may happen to roam,
Yet still will he tell you—“ There’s no place like
home.”
The heathen, benighted, lives happy, at ease,
In his own native land, where the coooanut trees
Spread their feathery palms over mountain ant
dale,
And bend at the echoing blast of the gale;
Where streamlets of silver rush gaily along
And sing to the fern trees a low rippling song;
They sweep past the groups of banana and palm
And make the green valley a paradise farm.
Where the forest primeval, abounding in game,
Supplies to the hunter both fortune and fame;
And where, ’mid the stillness of Nature, is hoard
The splash of the river and song of the bird.
But civilisation cannot understand
This heathen’s delight in his own native land;
Good people get shocked and put on pious airs
When they hear that to idols he offers his
prayers.
“ Dear mel do you tell me that really he goes
Without a tall hat or respectable clothes ?
Whatl naked, oh dear! and subsisting on roots ?
At once let us send him some blankets and boots
A cannibal I Horror 1 Oh, how can he do so ?
We’ll forward a copy of ‘Robinson Crusoe,’
To show him where Friday discovered his fault,
He never ate meat without pepper and salt.
How dreadful to think of this dark superstition;
We must have a bazaar, and get funds for a
‘Mission!’ ”
The mission is over, the victory won;
The savage a civilised life has begun.
The pleasures of hunting, the passions of war,
Are things of the past that delight him no more.
His manners are lowly, his bearing is meek,
And his air is demure every day in the week;
He bows quite politely as onward he goes
To all the Kernstian brethren he knows;
And then on his arm a dark maiden is seen,
Who is also Kerr/stian—in steel crinoline—
For, having begun now to lead a new life,
He is only permitted one sanctified wife;
Nor can she be changed for a pig or a horse.
Though she’s skilled in the mysteries of legal
divorce;
A knowledge of this : the last thing that re-
mained,
And the climax of civilisation is gained I
But civilisation, so fickle and strange.
Having caused in the savage this marvellous
change,
In his barbarous soul and his heathenish mind,
Begins in his country great interest to find.
As soon as the gods from his temples are cleared,
And war-cries no more in the forests are heard,
His white brothers hasten his country to share
And talk about founding a colony there.
Then grasping in friendship the blackfellow’s
hand,
They grab at the same time a bit of his land;
And when the poor chieftains, o’erpowered with
fears,
Dare mildly suggest that “ the country is theirs,”
The civilised Christian Indignant replies,
And the whltefellow thus to the blackfellow
cries:—
“Oh, ingrate I oh, brute! without reason or sense,
Isthls your return, this the bare recompense
Which you offer to me ? Oh, fie on you, fie!
Reflect for a moment on seasons gone by;
Consider the feasting, the bloodshed and war.
In which >ou Indulged your wild passions before
I came to your island; yet now you turn round,
And attempt to play me with Tom Tiddler’s
groundI
I suppose all the shiploads of blankets and boots,
The baubles, tjie bibles, the white linen suits.
Go for nothing ? You son of a cannibal, hear.
The law universal we Christians declare:
In oases like this, Just to save any bother,
We give you one-half; and we annex the other.
Be Christlanly thankful for what you have got,
If you make any fuss, why, we’ll collar the lot!
And cause you to make a most humble confession
Or faith, by a great ' unconditional cession,’ ”


NEXT SATURDAY.
ON THE GROUND,
Fairfield Park, Fairfield,
between
ORANGE GROVE and the RAILWAY STATION.
LARGE BLOCKS, 300 AND 800 FEET DEEP.
MTT, El, ail FDR7ES
Have received instructions to sell the above by
public auction,
ON THE GROUND,
On SATURDAY, 3rd NOV.,
at 3 p.m,
Thisgrand Estate is situated close to the FAIR-
FIELD RAILWAY STATION, on the main Falr-
neld-road, and in the centre of the famous orchard
and vineyard district.
The subdivision has been most liberally carried
put by Mr. Licensed Surveyor W. H. BINSTED,
the roads all being: 66 feet wide, the frontages
being 50 feet, and the depths from 175 to 330 feet.
All' in search of CHEAP LAND, close to a
STATION, and in a fast rising DIS-
TRICT, should wait for this sale.
Terms-15 per cent, deposit, balance payable by
*1 equal monthly payments, with 6 per cent,
interest. .
SPECIAL TRAIN at 1.40 p.m. FREE TICKETS
PLANS NOW READY.
EAU DE COLOGNE,
4*J11. 4711.
ESTABLISHED 1793.
Gold Medal, Moscow, 1873.
Prize Medal, Vienna, 1878.
THIS EAU DE COLOGNE, so favourably
known to the Australian public during the
last 36 years, obtained at the last Philadelphia
Exhibition the PRIZE MEDAL, and FIRST
PRIZE Sydney International Exhibition, for its
superior sweetness, strength, and invigorating
qualities, excelling all other competitors.
It has become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the
ELITE OF EUROPE.
The large and constantly increasing demand for
the genuine 7411 EAU DE COLOGNE, not only in
Europe, but also in North and South America,
India, and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number 4711 changed into 7411,1147, 4117, &c., &o.
The real genuine article, which carried off the
Prize Medal at the Vienna Exhibition, is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue and gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pitt-
street, Sydney. To be had at the principal Per-
fumers, Druggists, and Storekeepers in town and
country.
EVcHYi
MAN
SHOULD
READ
Ur. Mamoiis li.* i«'o: n
Describing how sufferer* from
Nervous and Physical Debility.
Mental Decay and all disorders
resulting from Excesses, Indis-
cretions or Overwork; aVe per-
manently Cured
Without Stomach Medicines.
WKAK, SKUV0U8, AM) lltl’OTKNT
MBA UBSTOKBI) TO
VIGOR, HEALTH A M A.MIOOU
Consultation with Physician
and Book FREE. Address—
Marston Remedy Co.,
72 ILI2..BETH SX., B7LHB7.
TFftCRtflAlP Pleasant, Refreshing,
AUCUUHCj Invigorating.
The non-alcoholic beverage acts as a brain and
nerve tonic, and does not Intoxicate.
ZOEDONE
Is recommended by the Faculty as a substitute for
wine, beer, and spirits, as It Invigorates without
producing any intoxicating effect. In case of
debility consequent on a long residence in a hot
climate, It is or great service, as it acts not only as
a nerve stimulant, but also as a permanent tonlo
to the system.
Price per case containing 6 dozen pints... 12/
.. .. „ 6 „ I „ 34/
ELLIOTT BROTHERS,
73 and 74 Pltt-street,
Sydney.
raw
<i'\f
JAMES YOUNG, Sole Agent, No. 8, Change Alley.
&
PAINTS.
OILS, gy
WALL
& PAPERS
Messrs, Rosalie, Lloyd and Co.’s Establish-
ment.
The remarkable success which has attended the
business of Messrs. Rosalie, Lloyd and Co., proves
the fact which has often been stoutly maintained
for colonialcornmunities, and especially for Sydney
people, that whenever an effort is here made to in-
troduce a higher branch of art, whether for home
or personal adornment it invariably meets with
success. The business which Messrs. Rosalie,
Lloyd and Co. opened in their handsome establish-
ment, in George-street, was of the character to
which the older and wealthier cities of London
and Paris have given extraordinary encourage-
ment during the last tew years. Ail the latest art
devetopmeuta in millinery and the innumerable
articles which are included in the category of
ladies’ requisites, are here to be seen as they were
never previously seen in these parts—wholly of a
superior style, with a uniform unchangeable
excellence. Messrs. Rosalie, Lloyd and Co. by
this effort have, it may be said, given an
incentive to an improved taste, while at the
same time giving to the public practical ad-
vantages which are likely to be no less widely
appreciated. A glance at the windows of Messrs,
R. and L.’s establishment indicates the superior
character of the goods procurable within. The
shop affords good space for display and for busi-
ness, and is furnished with ladies’ sitting and
dressing rooms. The business of the firm has now
so increased that large additions are to be made
doubling the space for a splendid trousseau and
underclothing department. Arrangements have
been completed for the receipt per each maR
steamer of all the superior fashionable goods in
mercery, laces, embroidery, flowers, gloves, para-
sols, silk scarves, wook silk, and cheaelle fichus,
&c. Mr. Rosalie la the resident London partner
and buyer. 5fcr. Llpyd, so a zephyr whispers, is
one of a, pumper of adventuresome brothers, for
whpift,country or college life hadn’t half the attrac-
tions of business In London;, and the history of
the gentleman mentioned in the firm now spoken
of would, if published, exhibit rare proof of early
self-dependence and unflagging energy. *
Messrs. Allt and Co.’s New Wine and
Spirit Stores and Cellars.
In Charlotte Place, within a lew feet of
George-stfeet, are now to be found the most
extensive wine and spirit stores in Sydney,
namely, those of Messrs. Allt and Co. The
firm has been established just upon twenty-
five years, and for a long period of time con-
ducted business in Pitt-street; but the pre-
mises there being inadequate, the firm
secured in Charlotte Place, with its wide
expanding roadway, one of the very best
sites now remaining in Sydney for business
purposes. The land comprises nearly half
an acre, and is of triangular for m, with front-
ages to two streets. Having secured this
splendid site, the firm resolved on erecting
what would, when finished, be far and away
the best planned and the most exten-
sive wine and spirit stores and cellars
in the colonies ; and certainly, as may be
gathered from the accompanying sketch of
so much of the building as has been
proceeded with, the firm are in a fair
way of achieving that splendid result.
There is hardly another building in Sydney
specially erected for the wholesale wine and
spirit I rade, so that a very strong contrast
may be expected to be found in all tbe de-
partments of this new edifice. The building
has been erected on lines entirely designed
by the firm themselves, so that its main
features are massiveness, capacity, and con-
venience. The building now spoken of forms
the base of the triangle, and is fronted by
an extensive yard, where as many as ten or
twelve drays or waggons may be accom-
modated, half of them loading or discharging
at the same time. The foundations are on
the solid rock —in fact, the cellars form a
considerable excavation in the natural bed ;
and, throughout, the building is of solid mar
sonry, with pillars of 18in. square (ironbark),
and girders of similar strength. At present
the store runs up only three storeys, but it
will eventually be topped by two extra floors.
It has a dey-th from rear of the clerical
department of 98 feet, «vnd each floor is
supported, as already stat«,q ) by ponderous
square ironbark pillars. On the topmost
floor are four powerful hoists, which operate
on each floor and in the cellar, allowing of
simultaneous receiving or despatching of
goods. This arrangement needs to be once
seen in operation, and the improvement is
manifest. The floors are divided into the
various departments of the trade. The
cellars have huge butts of old wines and
spirits, with a separate vault in the solid rock
for champagnes and the superior wines.
Then one of the floors is solely devoted t<
ease goods, the stock being enormous, ano
comprising just forty-seven different brands
of whisky apd brandy. Another floor
is devoted exclusively to the spirits in wood,
and berg ape to be seen some of the mosl
famous lines ypt imported to the colonies in
liplk. Qn another floor is found the stock
gf pottted beers, &o., probably the largest
ppld by any one house for daily supply. 1c
tfye champagne department over a thousand
ppupds worth is displayed in a very compacl
space. A portion of one of the floors is set
apart for hotel bar requisites, the articles
being kept solely for the convenience of the
llpm’s customers. Adjoining the stores are
JPeJl finished stables, with lavatories, &c., for
tfre .employees, all these parts being con-
structed on the very latest principle. A
tremendous pressure of water is secured foi
cyepy floor, and hydrants are in readiness, it]
case of ftre, throughout thje whole binldibg'
The commercial or dermal d e P ar^I b ent )
comprising also the firm's npivafe offices,
the sample rooms, &c., are altogether unique
m design, and are lavishly furnished- They
are supplied with the telephone connected
with the Exchange, and ali the bonded
Stores of the City, &c„ and speatfiUfi
tubes command every department of tm
stores to the saving of an immensity
of time, trouble, and labour. At tbe rear o|
the clerks’ offices is a capacious strongroom
of solid masonry, thoroughly fire-proof
where all the books, &c., are kept;
oeing found the records of the firm’s bus!
hess from the very first day it started
Messrs. Allt and Co. are sole agents in th.
colonies ‘for Messrs. Truman’s celebrate®
Burton ales, the famous cognac of A. C. Mev
SmVfl for John Robertson and
wbll-known whisky. This latter
has run into an enormous
d importers find their supplies pur-
chased before being even landed in Sydney.
iir?hf firm i a v e a m° 8ole a £ en ts for Burke’s
t;So r f^ >ar k, 1 a^e > a nd Munzer and
nf P ?, b / at ®. d^ clarets ’ The situation
of Messrs. Allt and Co.’s stores is of special
convenience to all classes of trades and busi-
ness men. The terminus of the railway ’bus
is at the door, the Customs is within
three minutes’ distance, and the various
Steamship Companies Wharves, are within
tefephomfk’ es^es being connected by
w^? ven ? or ..® roome cordially received in
Western Australia. “ New Brooms," &c.
+h b °ivr do . ! i' t tfa ink there is aristocratic
Diooa in the read this:—Townsr-illo «
f nrd dC Ma* ° f Ba I°? Rothschild, a cousin of the
of London, a cousin of Sir
r an d a brother of Archie Forbes.
® e^ er * His blood perhaps is not quite so
J est ’ orwemi * ht cal1 hlm Blue Peter.
He is working on a sugar plantation on the Burde-
Uired irf TownsvUte? ® aW hiS br ° ther when he leC ’
1 nn J rPIDBDt, wishing to buy a piece of
land which was auctioned the other day up North,
ff v , ea commission to a gentleman who can keep
M^- bet ? een h> 8 teeth. Local residents had
£ he resumption of the land in
?oe8tion’ and therefore one or two sharks mustered
P/ buying in anticipation of a re-sale
bieeding country The Government agent
one of these that he was going to bid—on
Jv*ose account, he of course neith- r said nor
w eU, now,” said the shark, “ am I in it ?
for if you say I am, 111 not oppose you.” “ Right
you are, old man; you’re in it.” Whereupon the
„ ?? r y on ® made straight for the auction room,
tJk oesmi to cry down the block as an investment.
representative got the land at a
price below his limit, and just as he was leaving
th .® room his enterprising friend buttonholed him
w Now, mind, old man, I’m in it.” “Yes,”
replied the buyer, “ we’re all in it.” “ What do
you mean by us nil I” “ Why, all the public, of
course,—I bought for the Government, so that
you really are in it. Slow music.
A return ball and supper are to be given
Mr. and Mrs. Sturt at the Great Wentworth Hotel,
Homebush, this (Thursday) evening. The atten-
dance is likely to be very large.
The Rev. James Benvie, of Maitland, is lec-
turing on “The Professions—Lawyers, Doctors,
and Clergymen.” A more taking title would be
“ Man’s Heritage of Trouble,”
We are coming round again to the good
old times when a man was hanged for stealing a
sheep. At Dubbo, the other day, a man was
sentenced to three years’ hard labour. While he
was feeding his horse from canvas stretched oyer
the shafts of his dray a calf came up and insisted
on sharing the horse’s meal. The calf inpjs'ted
three or four times. Then the teamster, enraged,
hit ths calf and killed it. For this 1m. got t hree
years. Three years for killing a calf! We wish we
had that much time to spare. If w ( e should
kill a certain Judge. Three, i’eafa, soon passes
away if one is on good tends, wljth thp gaolpr.
In a New York restauxjaut there are nine
German noblemen of high rank serving ap waiters.
How much luckier noblemen ape who emigrate to.
America than those w;ho popne out to dazzle Aua-
tralia! Here none of them ever have the chance
of getting inside a restaurant; or, if' they do, they
usually emergp suddenly op' their aristocratic
heads. That is. Of course, if they are honest; but, if
they are.ajbjp’to ma,ke a, neat Copy of a signature,
they blajze fijtfiuily for a period in drawing-rooms
at' The Point, and are idolised by designing
dowagers and adored by title-hunting tallow-
heiressea. And then the gas goes out, and they
awaike, after this heeling dream of splendour, on a
ai of blue-metal, with a hammer in their highly-
hands.
One A- Only tells the following queer yarn
ip a letter (dated October 1) to the Herberton
AnYkJRTfasm“ Some few weeks back the Govern-
ment granted to this community (Watsonville, N.
Q.) a sum of £500 with a view to relieve the num-
ber of miners out of employ, tmd improve the
main track between here and Port Douglas. A
works committee was elected, who appointed
John Blank the overseer of works, at a salary of
£5 per week. This most eligible overseer, accord-
ing to his own confession, is a “ Liberal God
save the mark I—and because two of his road party,
Mahoney and Larkins, favoured Mr. Macrossan,
and declined to have their opinions bossed, this
very “liberal ” overseer simply discharged them,
giving to one of them the following order, literally
copied, which may be payable at Aldgate Pump 6r
in the United States: f Ples to pay Mai;k Marel
twelve days work.— John Blank. ”/
A tailor’s goose—the masher.
The Swiss are fine shots. Blood Will Tell.
The leech is (after the woman) the animal
which shows most attachment to man.
Malone, the Irish pedestrian, who has so
easily beaten our men, races Combardello Billy
the aboriginal flyer, at Brisbane—100 yards—Billy
receiving two yards’ start.
Poor Old Jaeob Low! There were few men
i yc® ®n s 1 a n d better liked. He was a podgy, griz-
zled old man, with a countenance In which an
underlying geniality was ever breaking through a
superficial aspect of grimness. He was a queer
mixture altogether. Wearing the outward appear-
ance of a man who had risen, and affecting a gruff
roughness of manner, he was a hot property for
any chump who put on an air of superiority.
Jacob was really as proud a Conservative in his
way as the Duke of Richmond, and he was an
educated, nay, even a cultivated man. He could
trace his ancestry back through twenty generations
as holders always of a bit of land in North Britain;
and honestly proud of his clean descent was Jacob.
Just a year or two before his death, his brother
and partner went home to reclaim the old place,
and—dmd. We suspect that this shook Jacob,
but he had a little previously suffered an acci-
dent which at his age is no trifle—a broken
leg. Jacob had a pawky humour of his own,
so queerly mixed up with a solid utilitarian-
ism that it was difficult often to distinguish his
jest from his earnest. For instance, he engaged
the only civil engineer he could get in Brisbane at
a days notice, to hurry up to the station with
him. Shearing was in full blast, and something
had gone wrong with the engine or pumping gear
or so forth, and every hour lost meant money. So
Jacob hurried down and prevailed on Schwabe,
just risen from his bed, scarcely recovered from
an attack of typhoid fever, to take a seat in his
buggy and endure a four days’ journey over bush
roads. Schwabe started, only half alive, and
repeatedly on the road was three-quarters dead.
But he was on the mend, and got through all safe.
But, as he stepped out of the buggy at the station,
he noticed Jacob lug out a pick and shovel from
under the seat. “ What on earth did you load up
with these things for ?” cried Schwabe, thinking
how near sticking up the horses had more than
once been, with Jacob’s substantial weight.
Well, replied Jacob slowly, “ye see, after the
first stage, I dooted whether ye’d pull through the
next. Sae I just borrled the things at Smuth’s, so
that I could gev ye a decent bit o’ grave, if ye died
on my hands!”
The unco-guid prosecuted a very small
boy for selling' a copy of the Liberal outside the
Theatre Royal last Sunday. The offender had no
show, as the Act of Charles II. was explicit. He
was lined 6s., which he didn’t pay, so his goods are
to be levied on. A plug of hard-bake and a mouth-
organ will, therefore, shortly be offered at auc-
tion, by order of the Sheriff.
MESSRS. ALLT AND CO.’S NEW VXNB AND SPIRIT STORES AND CELLARS, CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.
5
THE BULLETIN.


A TRAVELLING TROUPE.
It seems funny, now that we are arrived,
tf not at positive affluence, at least at pleasant
prosperity, to think of the days—some incidents
of which we are about to chronicle —when we had,
in sooth, but a scanty share of the world’s good
things, and were far more familiar, so to speak,
with the outside of cookshops than their interiors.
All now, however, is changed. Having realised
the dream of ourlives—the possession of a three-
roomer, which has a little garden in front like a
blisler, and a narrow hen-run behind which Isas
full of rusty nails as an old three-decker—we are
in the enjoyment of happiness, Indeed I We pause
a mome' 't and gaze smugly round. Nothing could
be more complete: hardly anything more genteel.
Wax-flowers capped with a pie-shop cover in the
exact centre of the table; two Bohemian glass
“goblings,” and a mirror which converts every-
one who looks into it into a combination of
Judas Iscariot and Robert Macaire in the
centre of the mantelpiece; and, above all (our
greatest treasure), an “ iron framed, overstrung,
upright piano of a resonant tone with patent
check action, and all the latest improvements.” It
was something else, too, we believe; but we forget
what; and the maker rejoiced in a terrible foreign
name, which that instrument was the means of, for
the first time, introducing to our notice. Before
we purchased that piano we had a lot of musical
friends, who would drop in occasionally, bringing
fiddles and things in little boxes like children’s
coffins, and entertain us vocally and instru-
mentally. But they don’t come now, and this is
the more to be wondered at, as it is a sweet thing
to hear little Maria pick out the “ Blue Bells of
Scotland” in the silvery treble with one finger,
while the youngest stamps out the accompani-
ment in the “ resonant bass.” We got that piano
“ on terms,” and it is a matter of surprise that the
man we got it from has not driven up for it in a
van long ago. The fact is—but this In a whisper—
we have got everything on terms. The result of
this is quite a pack of time-payment cards Inside
the kitchen clock and illimitable confusion.
* ♦ ♦
The fact is the credit system has broken
eut with extraordinary virulence in our neigh-
bourhood, and as our residence appears to possess
some mysterious attraction for the various enter-
prising people who make things to sell, our
knocker may be said to have had quite a lively
time of it. Whatever they bring on time-payment
we make a point of taking, in order not to hurt
their feelings—so in this manner we may be said to
have acquired quite a number of articles of a mis-
cellaneous nature, which neither our liveliest
imagination could have suggested, nor our mad-
dest dreams of avarice permitted us to tremblingly
hope for. Indeed, this peculiar kind of purchasing
has at last reached such a pitch that we have
taken, in the family, to making little surprises for
one another. Thus, while we are out on a little
matter not entirely unconnected with the gas-
meter, on our return we will, not unfrequently,
find our possessions enriched by perhaps a cat-
kennel and a stove-blower; while during her
absences on propitiatory errands to the persons
whom we have named our purveyors by appoint-
ment for things to eat and bath-brick, that
excellent creature becomes, unconsciously,
the owner of a half-share of a lightning-rod
and a melodeon. Acquiring property thus
easily is pleasant enough, of course, but it has
its drawbacks. In the first place, the number of
the various transactions causes persons whose
apparel is invariably of a neglected nature to con-
tinually haunt our doorsteps, and as the wax-
flower party generally gets the piano Instalment
and the melodeon man the lightning-rod half-
crown, such complications are the result that our
front garden may be said to be quite a feature of
the neighbourhood. But, as we have said, though
our house is (under certain conditions) our castle,
though an iron-framed trichord upright has been
“ overstrung ” especially in our behalf, we cannot
but look back upon our humble days with feelings
less akin to sorrow than merriment.
• • •
Now, are you all in a good humour ? That
is well. Then lot blue eyes dance expectantly
over this little page, for there will be a good grin
hopping along directly, and we may remind those
who have mouths of a Pastorian character that,
as it will be good manners to hide them by and
bye, it would be as well to command the 3rd foot-
man to, at once, bring in the meat-screen
and the spare dictionaries. We went to a tea
meeting once and beheld the rev. chairman
laugh when the scones came in: and the reminis-
cence has left upon our memories feelings of a
peculiar character. Well, to begin, then. Adelaide
was in several colours. Where the city wasn’t
brown with sunbake it was white with dust, and
the stunted foliage in the howling squares glared
out upon the world a vivid yellow. Smart, well-
looking men, whose business took them in the
street, became, as if by magic, blear-eyed and
seedy; and the very stray dogs, as they dragged
themselves along the street with their tongues
upon the ground, looked more rueful and dejected
than a parson after a scant collection. Under the
dispiriting influence of the weather, the cheap
Hlndley-street auctioneers had “shut up” in a
double sense; and men of previously temperate
natures discovered themselves, to their conster-
nation, frequently, in the course of an hour, at the
large end of extended beer-glasses. But if things
were not gay for the degenerate order of man-
kind, how was gloom upon the “professional”
brow I In a word, the show business had gone
temporarily “bung,” and the “perfesh” was
paralysed.
• • •
Members of that noble calling were to be
seen all over the city In a state of collapse. Every
man wore his hat the wrong side before, to hide
the ravages of the elements; while, when one of
the crowd produced a cake of tobacco, it was
passed hungrily round, and a silent prayer was
offered up for the owner. Back views of lady
pros, demonstrated that the whalebones of their
dresses had broken in, while a front glance at the
gentlemen betrayed the fact that the uppers of
their boots had broken out. Curious articles of
stage wardrobe began to be on view in the streets,
and it was known far and wide that an Irish
comedian couldn’t unbutton his Kyrle Daly coat
because all he had got oa underneath was a panta-
loon’s waistcoat. A nigger minstrel, In a big at-
tempt to assert himself, took to wearing his “ pro-
perty” diamond star in the day-time; but, as at
that period he was obviously feigning gout, be-
cause, owing to the hardheartedness of a cruel
cobbler, he had to go about in one boot and one
slipper, the mounting of his “ window-pane ” was
received by his professional sisters and brothers
with remarks, the sarcastic nature of which
bordered closely on the offensive. They tried
—poor things!—“ Combinations” and “Common-
wealths,” and their generosity In tendering one
another benefits was surprising. We attended
several of these entertainments, which were tar
from being of an exhilarating character, the same
pair of black pants (distinguishable by a long darn
on the knee) being worn by several characters in
succession, having a damping effect upon the
audience. On one occasion, too, the management
(whose irritation we can sympathise with, but
whose hasty conduct we must ever deplore) turned
off all the gas, except the “ pilot light ” and two
brackets, in the middle of a performance of the
“Colleen Dawn,” thus leaving two-pounds-ten in
ignorance, for ever, as to whether that young lady
met with a watery grave or was returned to her
friends. Under these dismal circumstances, seve-
ral talented people, who had shone excessively (so
It appeared) in other climes, left the Thespian
ranks In despair and joined the humble army of
traders. One lady in the vocal line threw open her
parlour shutters, and exhibiting two packets of
soap-powder, a chunk of hard-bake, and three
candles, called herself a grocer. A gentleman whose
department was “ second heavies ” took to going
out “busking,” but, his alfresco performances not
meeting with the success he had anticipated for
them (and which they doubtless deserved), he first
got elevated and then bellicose, and finished the
night singing “ Dada’s popped the baby’s cradle,”
with much feeling, to the keeper of the watch-
house. Another gentleman who had seceded from
a circus—or the circus from him —conceived the
brilliant idea of starting a cigar emporium and
theatrical divan, and called on the profession to
rally round him. And the profession did rally
round him to such an extent that, after fourteen
days, he put up the shutters and hid himself in the
coal-hole.
* * ♦
It was just about this time, when desola-
tion was an all but the Theatre Royal company,
that an American came along, and, announcing
that he was going to play a burlesque by a local
author, engaged all the available talent, and things
began t© look up. The landlords at professional
houses commenced to permit themselves to be
“whispered” for drinks by thirsty Thespians, and
once more the man at the corner store was
good for a tin of blacking and a red-herring.
Great expectations had been raised for the bur-
lesque, as the manager had freely announced it
was “turr’ble funny.” So it was. It was so funny
that, after the first quarter of an hour, the front
seats commenced to express their feelings through
the medium of oranges, while the gallery’s mode
of giving vent to its critical sentiments took the
form of cauliflowers. Next day, the manager went
away on a visit somewhere, and the hall was again
to let. No money; less credit; and, consequently,
Increased gloom. Shortly after this additional
dramatic calamity, we were seated busily evolving
comic copy, the small-beer humour of which (we
remember) was of a more than ordinarily painful
nature, when we received a visit from no less a
person than the Great Blogsby, Ethiopian, Vir-
tuoso, and Pedestal dancer. The Great was accom-
panied by a gentleman named M’Plornlsh, whose
mission, it seemed, in the theatrical world, was to
“look after the front of the house” at any enter-
tainment varying from the legitimate drama to a
snake-circus. This was the capitalist, and, as
such, he was received by us with due respect,
and a casual remark that it was “just about our
hour.” The Great Blogsby.jit seemed, had evolved,
in his teeming mind, the colossal idea of “ Blogs-
by’s Bijou Troupe,” which was to travel overland
to Melbourne. As mapped out by Blogsby, it
seemed the Bijou Troupe was to consist of
THE GREAT BLOGSBY I
The world-famed Negro Delineator, High Pedes-
tal Dancer, Dutch Impersonator, and Unrivalled
Protean Artist, on his every appearance in any part
of the civilised globe being received with deafening
and tumultuous plaudits by crowded and delighted
audiences.
MISS IRENE DE JACKSON!
Australia’s own PremUre Danseuse, Vocalist, and
Dialect Comedienne, whose performances have
been the theme of admiration in court and camp,
in town and city.
MR. SANDY M’PLORNISH,
The Celebrated Eccentric and Buffo Singer,
MADAME EUPHROSINE DE MONTPARNASSE,
Solo Pianiste,
First Prize, Conservatoire de Paris, R.A.M., the
favourite pupil of Herr Calipash, etc.
Business Agent and Lightning Press
Manipulator,
J3T" Rupert Fitzmarshal.
• • •
On enquiry, it seemed that the Great Blogs-
by and Miss Irene de Jackson were united In the
holy bonds; while Madame Euphroslne de Mont-
parnasse and ourselves were In a similar predica-
ment. On finding herself thus distinguished,
Madame Euphrosine, a meek little thing who had
been born at Dubbo, exhibited some discomfltu e,
but the Great Blogsby considered that the Conser-
vatoire de Paris business would “draw the clergy,”
and was inexorable. Madame Euphrosine, it may
be remarked, had a solo stock which consisted of
two entire tunes—“ The Signal March” and “ Home,
Sweet Home," with original variations, together
with a great many odds and ends of obsolete jingles.
She could accompany all right, but as “ The Signal
March” is an air several robust people have died of,
and considering no one has ever taken the trouble
to pirate those original variations, it must be con-
ceded that there was cause all round for some
slight uneasiness with regard to the coming success
of Kuphrosine de Montparnasse at the instrument.
We forget, at this distance of time, the programme
In its entirety, but what we can remember of it
will afford no matter for merriment until
A grave for us by the blue sea
Is well and deeply dug.
And mother ties a bit of crape
Around our China mug.
We know, anyhow, they played “ Conrad
and Llzette,” and “ Norah’s Lover,” and the
delight of Courts and Camps used to sing some-
thing about
“ Be particular.
Perpendicular
Always carry the baby.”
Finally, The Great would “ black up,” and he the
Celebrated Eccentric would come on and do a
feeble farce, the motif of which appeared to be for
the Celebrated Eccentric to wish to make love to
the lady, whereupon The Great would bang him
with a stick, upon which he would throw a hand-
ful of flour over that distinguished performer, and
if there was anyone behind to let the curtain
down, down it came, and if there wasn’t (which
was the rule) the performers got off the best way
they could—with their lives. Sometimes (when
they could get one) they had a barrel. Then The
Great would hide in it (with two-thirds of his head
showing), and when the Eccentric approached hit
him on the head with a bladder. This is all of the
plot there seemed to be, but the denouement always
took the form of flour. On some occasions the
Lightning Press Manipulator prepared a local
farce “forthe whole strength of the company;”
but the success of these great works was some-
what marred, in representation, by the total
inability of the Eccentric to study a single line, and
by the persistent manner in which The Great
introduced “ business” of his own foreign to the
fable, and of such a nature as to render the action
of the piece a sealed mystery to the audience.
• • •
“The Bijou” opened at Strathalbyn, and,
the spirit of truth compels us to state that the
reception of the company was not characterised
by that amount of enthusiasm which had been
generally hoped for. That section of the populace
assembled at the coach-office, so far from extending
to us that welcome which such a distinguished
company might have considered its just meed,
passed critic 1 remarks upon our appearance, and
by some uncalled-for expressions concerning the
substantial mould in which Nature had cast Miss
De Jackson’s ankles, lashed The Great into a par-
oxysm of fury. It subsequently transpired (we
had only £4 “ in ”) that the coolness of our recep-
tion was less due to any shortcomings on part of
the Bijou than to the enterprising American man-
ager (the producer of the Adelaide local burlesque)
who had been manipulating the township prior to
our arrival. It seems two or three days before the
voice of The Great was heard in the land, this
gentleman had placarded the place with huge
yellow day bills, announcing that “ Barnum’s
Great Show, direct from America,” would appear
at the School of Arts, and in conjunction with
which magnificent entertainment would be given
away allotments of land, diamond rings, pianos,
silver tea and coffee sets, and all the rest of it.
All Strathalbyn rolled up to get rich and to see
Bamum’s Great Show direct from America, while
those who hadn’t got a “ white ” to part, prowled
about outside the School of Arts endeavouring to
hear even the muffled growl of the lion, or to get a
whiff of the tiger.
* * m
The performance commencing, however,
disclosed the fact that Barnum’s Great Show, direct
from America, consisted of a lame German, with a
magic lantern and a badly mangled sheet, who
showed on it some pictures about the Afghan War.
A lecturer had been engaged, but, though he had
been pumped on several times at the hotel, it had
been found impossible to impart unto him even
the faintest glimmering of reason, and thus the
Great Show was at once shorn of one of Its most
valuable adjuncts. As for the intrepid entre-
preneur, he knew rather less about the Afghrn war
than a Parsee does about snow-shoes, and, even
supposing he had been ever so conversant with
the Afghanistan question, he was far too much
occupied in looking after the gift department and
preparing for immediate flight to pay any atten-
tion to the entertainment. So the distracted
Teuton brought his pictures staggering on one by
one, the audience interpreting the meaning
audibly themselves, and giving to nearly
every view a local colouring. In the end
the distribution of gifts took place, but
when it was discovered that one trooper
got the ring, and another the tea-and-coffoe-
set, that the deed for the land was not yet
made out, and that the van that was bringing along
the piano had broken down on the road, fury was
the upshot. So they went for the magic-lantern
and tore down the sheet, and then, suddenly re-
membering the proprietor, who had last been seen
upon the stage, with a whoop that would have
been fierce for a Sioux band dashed after him.
And, crowding through the back entrance, they
just saw him. He was being rapidly driven away
in a pair-horse waggonette, and, as the moon-rays
shone down upon him, they perceived that he had
a big sandwich in one hand and a black bottle in
the other; and, from the laughter that floated
towards them, it was plain that he was entertain-
ing the coachman and his friends with a detailed
account of how he had scooped the pool. It will
not be surprising, theref ore, that the reception of
the Bijou coming immediately, as it did, after this
combination, and giving nothing away, was tinged
with a coolness which was only one remove from
the frigid.
♦ ♦ *
The next place that the Bijou was to
startle was a township on the borders of a lake, on
the other side of which commenced the beginning
of a 100-mile desert. In this cheerful locality we
were to show in a big empty store; but, at the last
moment, the proprietor refused to let the Bijou
perform, on the ground that he had been “slipped
up ” by the preceding company. This necessitated
a long jump to Kingston, a township which boasts
a wharf, two stores, three hotels, and a lock-up.
Business here, notwithstanding the lanipulator’s
Herculean efforts at billing with rainbow stream,
ers, a paste-pot, and a ladder, was of a distressing
nature; the amateurs, bossed by a German tinker
(wbo was also a ventriloquist), having recently
given several performances, the populace had had,
so to speak, a plethora of amusements. The Bijou
was, therefore, rather tabooed than otherwise;
and a lengthening of the countenance of the Eccen-
tric who had, to use his own expression, “ put up
his little bit of good gilt,” began to bo plainly per-
ceptible. Invitations to partake of something
from our entrepreneur soon ceased entirely, and
the free-list for half-crowns on account of salaries
was entirely suspended.
A ray of sunshine, however, was in ator
for us. For at the next town we were la *
glory. It was the sleepiest hollow In the wort!
The stores were somnolent, the dray-driv.1
drowsy, and the very hotels under the relirn ”
Morpheus. As for the little newspaper oflw
which was a slab hut in the middle of at
enshadowed garden, It positively snored
The Lightning Press Manipulator of the Bile
however, was not long In waking up the oil
Aided by the experience and advice of the edit
(there were two editors and one compositor') 01 *
brought out a “ Manifesto,” printed bill-head si/ 6
and proceeded to distribute it with a lavish ha s
—a boy and a horse, both the property of th°
paper, being Impressed into the service. Tfa 6
Manifesto—which attracted considerable attonH^ 6
—was something as follows :— 011
BLOGSBY’S BIJOU TROUPE.
WHEREAS it having come to the knowledge of
the Great Blogs nr that certain peripatetic per-
formers, whose demerits were their principal
characteristic, have of late been inflicting their
feeble and ludicrous efforts on the intelligent
denizens of this beautiful town, The Great B
feels it incumbent upon him to announce that the
entertainment given by the Bijou Troupe is as
different to all that have preceded it as light is
from darkness—as sun from shadow. Everything
that can refine the mind and elevate;the under-
standing will be found in our perfomanoe, in
which mirth, music, mimicry, and merriment
coruscate and glitter with sparkles of delight
throughout the whole evening.
N.B.—The Great Blogsby takes this opportunity
of stating that he has never travelled over
this ground as descriptive lecturer to a giant
neither was he even in any way connected
wltn the Royal Punch and Judy, the Female
Samson or the Squirrel Circus.
(Signed) THE GREAT BLOGSBY.
All the wealth and fashion (including the
auctioneer and family) flockd to the show, and the
result as the Eccentric triumphantly remarked
was a thirty-pounder. Then, flushed with triumph,’
he announced through the medium of written
placards and the bellman—a hoarse vandal on
crutches, who travelled about a quarter of a
mile an hour and pronounced the names all wrong
—a second night. So we played. But the people,
notwithstanding that “an entire change ot pro-
gramme” was announced, had no further curiosity
respecting us, and, although Madame Kuphrosine
dc Montparnasse played the “ Signal March ” until
her face grew purple and her nails grew black,
there was no response on part of the public.
Indeed, one big, burly fellow who had been hang-
ing about the door ever since tea time expressed
his opinion that the Bijou was a “ have,” and that
we had “ a pretty knocker ” to try and ring in our
show a second time on a peaceable community
Then we left, but from that moment the fall of
the Bijou may be emphatically dated.
• * #
We little knew, alas, when we started once
more upon the road, that in respect of all our
troubles being before us we resembled in every
particular the legendary young bear. Our next
stand was at a large town on the Border, where we
had engaged the Hall for a week—fancy 1 a whole
week I We arrived at the hotel fortunately at
night. The word “ fortunately” is used in this
instance with a terrible meaning, for the hotel in
question was a high-class place, and the appearance
of the Bijou, to those persons who were neither
aware of their histrionic talents nor respected their
social qualifications, was hardly of such a nature
as to inspire illimitable confidence. “The Great,”
for instance, wore a slouch hat which had been sat
upon, while coaching, by every member of the
company—the owner included, —a long coat, whloh,
when carefully buttoned In front, opened mysteri-
ously behind, exposing to view a world of lining of
a frayed and ragged character, and tight pants,
once a delicate slate colour, but now fast develop-
ing, by reason of the sun’s action, into a
pronounced saffron. Miss de Jackson’s costume
never varied. It was a black dress, which
hooked-and-eyed behind, exhibiting all the way
down little dusky white gaps, and not unfre-
quently an inch or two of cloudy stay-lace. Her
boots were the boots of a lady who refused to
pander to elegance while ease was to be obtained,
and as she had a soul above pulling up her stock-
ings, and a hat that The Great had stamped upon
once or twice in the dressing-room, it will be seen
that her sacrifices to the Graces were of a com-
paratively unimportant nature. The Eccentric
was tolerably respectable, but the unreliable na-
ture of his jewellery was such that it occaslone
wherever he went more astonishment than admira-
tion. Madame Euphroslne was tolerably present-
able, having still about her the remains of
dour that was uever born of the drama. As for
Lightning Manipulator, when he had turned is
collar and inked his sock, there was thatabout him
which would command attention, if not respec .
It came to pass, therefore, that, the house being
full of squatters, we were not treated with t a
deference which we could have wished, and s
commenced our season under auspices w o ,
must be admitted, were the reverse of cheertu -
The first night we paid expenses. N
to further exertions by this, on the fo
evening we engaged the town band to p a
side. This was considered by the Eccentric t
master-stroke of policy; his mind, we fear, ra
soaring beyond the resources of the last c re .
front of whose house, it appeared, he a,
after.” It was not an easy matter to ge
together. The bandmaster was a Pamt er - a
found him up a ladder “at a job, ® ° nt ji
mile off; and the cornet couldn’t speak to
he had done making a horse-shoe. The big d
was employed at the hospital, and u n'
could come; while the ccorot of the
of the others was apparently locke llD just
master’s breast. However, they urI ‘ d tbe
about the time we should have 00 They
performance, accompanied by a grea sUtrges-
then executed the Polish Lancers, w .. 80me-
tion was thrown out by one of t e “ „ re-
tiring down ” would be “ a fair • manage .
sponse being given on part musl-
ment to this rather broad , ve8 for
clans, after whispering amongst them
a few moments, marched ’ u8 with
the crowd with them, and ea .
Mias de Jackson bursting herself at


i
:IB
911
52 0
Prepared according 1 to the directions Prof.
E. N. Horsford, of Cambridge, Maas.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED FOR
DYSPEPSIA, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA, WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY, fcO.
1SF~ No Danger caw Attend its Use.
Nervous Depression from Overwork.
Sluggish Circulation and Growing Chil-
dren.
Sandusky, O., May 21, 1880,
I have used your Add Phosphate and can pro-
nounce It a very valuable addition. I find It use-
ful and beneficial in nervous dyspepsia, nervous
depression following overwork and anxiety, as well
as the gastric derangements. Where there is
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation, a dull,
heavy head, it is of undoubted value. Fast grow-
ing children require this valuable addition.
W. R. PAGE, M.D.
Liver and Kidney Derangements.
Boston, Mass.. May 18,1880.
In regard to the Hereford's Acid Phosphate, I
have used it very extensively, and with the most
remarkable success.
I give it in dyspepsia and la all oases where there
is derangement or the liver and kidneys. With
my patients it has agreed wonderfully.
Nerve Tonic.
A. S. Carpenter, M,D., Keene, N.H., says :
“ Hereford's Acid Phosphate is a valuable medi-
cine. I have taken it myself, and for several
years prescribed it for my patients, when suffering
from indigestion or innervation of the digestive
organs, and always with satisfactory results. It is
a good nerve tonic, and in some cases ef morbid
urine, ‘ it acts like a charm,’ producing the desired
result. It is pleasant to the taste, acceptable to the
stomach, and is, in my opinion, an excellent and
valuable compound.”
(Can be borne by the most Sensitive
Stomachs.
Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 1880.
Hereford’s Acid Phosphate, In elegance of com-
position, stands unrivalled. It is pleasant to the
taste, and can be borne by the most sensitive
stomach. Have proscribed it with marked benefit
in indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms an
exceUent substitute for lemon juice, and as such
will furnish a refreshing drink for the sick,
A. L. HALL, M.D.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
on,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
“ It Works like a Charm."
It Is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy It gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, ouriug pains as water quenches fire. It cures
Sprain*, Headache, Sciatica,
Bruises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an Internal remedy It tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Threat, and Dyp-
therla.
A bottle of RENNB’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use in
case of emergency, will often save a life er a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers ia
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported into this country, and have
gained throughout the colonies suoh a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the Iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. 1
leather, and the upholstery Is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their finish
BECAUSE they are each and all built under special
Instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage builders in America,
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say they ajub in
BEST.
American Carriage Emporium,
WTNTARD SQUARE, 8 TENET.
BARRON. MOXHAM A CO„
Bole Agent*.
the edification of two troopers, 15s., and a select
rtv of the hall-keeper’s relations up stairs. The
P 8 /night much the same; and on the one after,
116 our arrival at the hall, we discovered that it
had been closed by order of the committee. This
id to an interchange of compliments between the
rLntrio and the door-keeper, during which the
i tter expressed himself with regard to the Bijou
in a manner which we trust he has since had the
'manliness to regret.
* • *
After the performance on the last night of
season, the members of the Bijou consulted
Aether gloomily in the bed-room of The Great.
L e representatives of the two papers were out-
side waiting with their accounts, the bellman was
uttering what he wouldn’t do to the Bijou if they
didn’t “ ante up,” and a bootmaker of whom the
G reat B. had, in a sanguine moment, ordered a
pair of spring-sides, was enquiring in loud tones
of the hostler “where them play-actors was a
hiding ?" The Eccentric at length broke a painful
and thirsty silence. He said: “ There’s only money
to get away to the next stand. But there, perhaps,
we shall make up for it.” “ I’m a big favourite
in that place,” said The Great, musingly. And the
three, it seemed, concentrated their gaze earnestly
upon Madame Euphrosine and the Manipulator.
It was very early dawn—quite the silver grey
0 f it—when a waggonette and pair might have
been seen halted at some distance from the School
of Arts. There was some luggage in the trap, and
some upon the turf by the road-side. Seated on a
log near were two figures, and on the centre of the
road was the form of a man tearing his hair and
gesticulating violently. That was The Great. As
for the Eccentric, he stood with his forehead
pressed on the tire of the near hind-wheel, while
seated among the luggage in a paroxysm of pas-
sionate tears was Miss Irene de Jackson. The blow
had come—the crash had fallen; the Manipulator
and the orchestra, etc., had seceded from the
Bijou, and that great troupe was no more.
• • •
Yet they drove away at last in the direc-
tion of Victoria, just as the sun-glow was radiant
in the sky, and just as we were saying to Madame
Euphrosine de Montparnasse, “ Eighteen-pence
takes a lot of spending, if it’s carefully laid out.”
♦ * *
But we got back. How ? Aha!
The Blioh Watchman tells us that Mr.
Gerald Spring, M.P., has heard of the death of a
brother m California, who has left a fortune of
£60,000,000, which Gerald is going to make a
spring for. That’s all right, only we thought It
was £600,000,000. After this, the news that some-
body has told the Sabs Tribune that Mr. W. F.
Smith’s brother told him he is heir to a paltry
£500,uOO, doesn’t Interest us a bit.
The Queen is going in for dissipation at
last. A little while ago she took an investigating
drive to Cralthie, near Balmoral, and—passed an
hour at John Brown’s grave. We believe she still
continues her diary, and are expecting a literary
feast so soon as Sir Theodore Martin receives the
royal Instructions to publish It “ up to date.
What nice light reading that diary wlli provide—
something after the following: Balmoral, Monday.
-Spent three hours this morning in admiring some
photographs of Cralthie churchyard, and called
Trixey’s attention to the beautiful softness of out-
line. Amused ourselves for sometime in finding
theexactspot—In the photo.—where poor Johns
body lies mouldering. After luncheon drove with
T. to the funeral of one of our old pensioners.
Dined; early to rest Tuesday.—Received, this
morning, a draft of Mr. Tennyson’s lines for poor
Brown’s mausoleum. Bead them to Trix., and—
after altering “ silent grave ” to “damp tomb, in
the second verse—gave orders for draft to be re-
turned. After luncheon drove with T. to B. s
grave, and remained there for three hours and a
quarter. Returned home, feeling much refreshed,
though dear Trix. seemed somewhat tired. Gave
instructions for “De d March in Saul to be
played during dinner time—how well the dear old
melody goes with walnuts I After dinner spent a
delightful half-hour with Brown’s picture, and
retired to rest,” &o., &c.
Writes a correspondent:—“Thespiey para-
graphs enlivening the American papers just now
would make it appear that Irving is terribly
‘mashed’ on Ellen Terry: but we fancy the vola-
tile lady must be held responsible for the rumours.
Hllen, all the world knows, is ‘gone’ on the great
Henry’; sue is constantly flopping her young
affections (E.T. is very aesthetic) on somebody or
another, and this peculiarity of her’s has been a
great source of chagrin to other members of the
family—her sister Kate, for instance, who, since her
marriage with George Lewis (Lewis and Allenby,
of London), has done her best to “ keep things
straight” with the younger girls. Old playgoers
will remember that Kate Terry, in her day, was
quite as great a ‘star’ upon the stage as is the
aesthetic Ellen, and she has certainly played her
role of ‘wife’ in a far more becoming manner.
Now, as regards Ellen, she was supposed to be
settled in life when, at sixteen years of age, she
was married to G. F. Watts, B.A., the well-
known painter-but she wasn’t. He was too old
and quiet for her lively tastes, so she com-
menced to ‘kick over the traces’ directly the
matrimonial journey was commenced. Her hus-
band's guests were not her ‘ style,’ and she
refused to entertain them; and when, upon the
occasion of a dinner-party, Watts Insisted on her
taking her place as hostess, Bllen scandalised her
husband’s friends —first-class people, all of them
by tripping into the room in a burlesque cestume.
This was too much, you know; so, after this little
episode, Mr. and Mrs. Watts lived apart by mutual
agreement, Watts allowing an income of £300 a
year to his young wife. Ellen then went on
some ‘other fellow; ‘ and, living together at Har-
penden, a pretty English village, she gave unto
this gentleman three pledges of her affection; then
the r other fellow ’ went ‘ broke,’ and abroad, and
Ellen called herself Mrs. Watts once more. Hubby,
meanwhile, remained in blissful ignorance ot the
fact that he had a family, and the three hundred a
year was continued. Then Ellen made her first
appearance on the stage since her marriage, and
was a big success; but, a little later on, Watts
eyes were opened by his friend, Tom Ti.ylor, the
dramatist; so—learning that he was a ‘ happy
father” — he procured a divorce Immediately.
This was some six years ago. Impressed with the
beautiful sacredness of marriage, Ellen now took
husband number two in Charles Kelly. However,
lie wasn’t to her lively taste, either; and Kelly, a
grand actot, grew jealous long before she e er
commenced her engagement at Irving’s theatre.
Irving is no more accountable for the estrange-
ment between Mr. and Mrs. Kelly than Is the man
in the moon. As regards the ‘great Henry’ not
taking his wife about everywhere with him, he is
not the only actor who doesn’t do that. It is quite
certain that there are few of the ‘ profession ’ who
cau boast as clean a record in public and private
life as Henry Irving, but the gossip that is now
being so freely circulated may nave the effect of
manufacturing a “feellngof disgust” towards him
and Ellon Terry similar to what superfine American
socio.y persisted in evincing towards poor Mrs.
Langtry. From an artistic point ot view, this
would be a great pity.”
Not only is Wolfk’s Schnapps a staple
article or the trade in tne United States, but it has
a large sale and enjoys a high reputation in
America, Mexico, China, Australia, and other coun-
tries. Like tne principle of good it has some em-
bodiment everywhere.
THE MYSTERIOUS LOCKET.
A month ago, Tommy Atkins arrived in
Sydney from Bourke. He had many commissions
to execute—some lor others, some for himself.
But there was one object which towered above all
the rest—dwarfed them into insignificance. It was
to knock down his cheque in the shortest time.
So, every morning, Tommy, who was an early riser,
turned out long before Memnon’s statue (had Syd-
ney possessed one) would have begun the first hour
of welcome to tue rising sun. The pump was his
first house of call; and, when the bracing water
had relieved him in some measure from the fumes
of last night’s whisky, he strolled abroad to com-
mune with Nature and obtain a “ pick-me-up.”
He had got a good way into his cheque, but had
not yet turned the corner where the landlord gets
epigrammatic and bints that the country and not
the town is the proper place for young pushing
men.
• • •
On this particular morning he was late,
and did not take a stroll till after breakfast.
When he did, he dawdled along in that aimless
desultory fashion that men Insensibly adopt when
the whole day is before them, and they are un-
decided what special form of dissipation they will
commence with. After a while he found himself
standing before a large drapery shop in Woolloo-
mooloo. A young man who appeared to have had
the previous night more oysters and stout than
were good for him, was lazily taking down the
shutters and revelling in incisive repartee with the
young women who were arriving for the days work.
Tommy stood before the window, and wondered
at the cheapness of the articles, but, most of all,
he wondered why no even money was ever taken
—why goods were always labelled lid., Is. lid., 3s.
lid., or 3s. lid., but never is., 2s., 3s., oris. “ There
must be something in it, I suppose,” he said to
himself: and then, seeing a likely-looking straw at
his feet, he picked it up, put it in his mouth, and
was about to saunter to the public-house at the
top of the Street, when somebody beside him said,
“ My word, things are cheap here, and no blooming
mistake—very different to what they are where I
came from.” “And where is that?’ f said Tommy
to a rather nice, gentlemanly-looking young fellow
whom, on turning, he discovered at nis elbow, and
who had evidently made the remark. “ From
Bourke,” said the stranger. So, as Tommy knew
many peopm in Bourke, and the young man ap-
peared to know them also, an acquaintance was at
once struck up, and it w u s determined to cement
it at the nearest public-house. We have not time
to turn aside and explain why friendship and
whisky are so closely related. That there is a
strong affinity between them is too notorious to
be disputed. Tommy and his new friend chattered
and laughed over the little foibles of their Bourke
acquaintances—how Mrs. A., the rich storekeeper s
wife, snubbed Mrs. B., the publican’s spouse, and
was snubbed in turn by Mrs. C., the squatter’s
“lady,” who—herself a small huckster’s daughter
—thought the lower orders in the interior were too
forward, and should be kept in their places. It
was while the conversation flowed freely that
a tall, elderly, military-looking man walked
into the room, and bade them a cheery good
morning, and, after a few all-round remarks on
the tightness of money and the prospects of the
Government, asked them to join him. The new
comer was so affable, jolly, and talkative that the
young men took an immediate fancy to him. Pre-
sently he remarked: “ Splendid place, this Sydney.
There are white men here, not like that hole I
came from." “ And where is that ?” asked
Tommy’s Bourke friend, who appeared fascinated
with the new gentleman’s gaiety and conversa-
tional powers. “From New Zealand,” was the
answer; “ and a queer country it Is.”
♦ * *
The stranger then took from his pocket a
piece of wood which he called a “locket.” It was
triangular in shape, rudely constructed, and each
side measured about four inches. The carte of a
Maori was inside, and the locket opened in the
same manner as one of those sixpenny looking-
glasses, so useful to “bullock-punchers” when
starting on a “mashing” reconnaissance among
the rustic belles In their neighbourhood. Two
things were remarkable about the article—its his-
tory and the difficulty of opening it. The present
possessor had just come in for a fortune of £30,000
through the death of a brother in New Zealand.
Many years had gone by since his brother went to
Maoriland—a step he was induced to take through
hearing an immigration agent from that country
lecture In London Having a small capital, he in-
vested It all in old fowling-pieces and ammunition,
and started for New Zealand. These were quickly
traded off amongst the natives for land, and after
a tew years the young cockney found himself not
only independent, but universally respected by the
Maoris. As a mark of their esteem they made him a
present of a locket which was a triumph of mechani-
cal skill. No white man could open it—the secret
vi as known to the tribe alone. They showed it to
the young Englishman, obtaining from him a
solemn promise not to divulge it, except to his
heir. When he died, the present owner of the
locket became his heir, and found among his late
brother’s effects, instructions how to open and
close the present, with a solemn Injunction to burn
the directions as soon as read. Captains of vessels,
engineers, police constables, and magsmen had
tried in vain to discover the secret. “ And now,
gentlemen,” said the entertaining stranger, as he
threw the locket carelessly on the table, “I’ll
wager either of you £5 that you cannot open it.”
• • •
Some men travel the world over many
times and return home greater fools than when
they started. Tommy Atkins had not travelled
very far, but, during his limited wanderings, he
had received a few lessons which he called to
mind. Two of the most gentlemanly and fair-
spoken men he ever remembered had once cleaned
him outatthe “Bull and Mouth,” in Bourke-street,
on the eve of a Melbourne Cup day, by means of
the match-box trick. So it struck Tommy, all at
once, that his companions were net strangers to
one another, and that his meeting with the young
man was by no means accidental. When the
elderly gentleman loit the room, and the other
having shown how easy it was to open the locket,
said “The old fool won’t miss the £5. You go £3
and I’ll go £3, and we’ll bet him.” Tommy de-
clined, saying that he had been taught in Sunday
school never to gamble. Rut a plan to spoil the
little game had already matured in his mind.
When the old gentleman returned, Tom said “ I’ll
bet you a liver I open it.” The bet was
accepted, and the money placed in the waiter’s
hands. Then the locket was opened with
the greatest ease, and the wager paid over.
The old party looked surprised, said something
was crooked, examined the locket, closed it again,
put it in his pocket, and then offered to bet £30
that neither could open it. But Tommy followed
the waiter out, wished them good morning, said he
was pained to leave them, but was obliged to keep
an appointment at Government House, and reached
home in time for lunch.
« •
He had rightly divined the secret. Had
he bet the £20 the affable old gentleman would
have drawn from his pocket a piece of solid wood
resembling in every particular the mysterious
locket, and Tommy could have worked away at it
till well into the 30th century. He sometimes
takes a walk through George-street, and sees his
friends loitering about the Arcades on the best of
terms. He smiles when he passes them, but thinks
it would be ungenerous to ask the elderly gentle-
man whether any other white man has succeeded
in discovering the secret of the mysterious locket.
Tne Malagasy militia march into action to
the tune “ There is a happy land, far, far away.”
tiis is a missionary melody, and is said to be very
cheering to the heart of the Hova warrior. When
ne gets a French rilie-ball in his stomach, he turns
round gracefully on his heel, gurgles out his last
breath, and, falling flat on his face, goes to the
happy land. His French enemy, with a pound of
old nails and small shot in his body, also goes to
glory. They will probably meet there, and be at
peace ever after—that is, if no missionaries are
admitted.
The *• unco guid ” of Victoria are rejoicing
that the motion for Sunday opening of the Public
Library and Picture Gallery has been shelved until
next session. Instead of being permitted to jeo-
pardise his soul by visiting that iniquitous institu-
tlon, the working-man is desired to spend his
Sabbath in “getting drunk and whacking the
‘ missus,’ ” as Heretofore. The pious ones are
girding up their sanctimonious loins for next ses-
sion’s contest.
THE RIGHTEOUS ONES' RESOLVE.
We shall make a grand endeavour
To destroy this “ Devil’s snare,”
Being leagued in love together
With a motive high and rare;
’Tis a labour that is pleasant.
Since the object—one and sole—
We are working for at present
Is a fellow-creature’s soul.
He might stroll into the Gallery
And enjoy himself (what sin 1)
’Stead of spending all his salary
I'i colonial beer and gin;
He might even take to reading
Wicked books, if he saw fit—
Such a shocking, sad proceeding
No true Christian can permit.
There’s a yearning, sweet affection
For the workman in our breast,
So, beneath our kind protection
We have placed his “Day of Rest;”
And we’ll choke this sinful “ measure,”
Which, if passed, would very soon
Make him, really, take a pleasure
In his Sunday afternoon.
Nol we’ll keep this Institution
Closed on Sundays, if we can,
For we’ve formed our resolution
To protect the working-man
'Gainst the deadly sin and folly
Of behaving in this way—
The idea of being jolly
On the blessed Sabbath day 11
Here is a nice subject for gossip over the
front gate. In a town on the Darling, there are
fourteen married women living apart from their
husbands. A country contemporary thinks this
very sti ange. We don’t. The husbands are pro-
bably in gaol.
Up in Newcastle there is a Skeleton Army,
which is a burlesque upon the Salvation Army.
The difficulty with outsiders, however, is to tell
which is burlesque and which is real. This is only
till the box goes round. Then there is no mistak-
ing which is the real thing.
A trifling error often changes the whole
course of existence. James Chapman, of Arcadia
(Vic.), found this out the other day. He was making
a fire under a tree, and the tree fell and crushed
him in the burning logs. Now, if he had only
made the fire on top of the tree, this could never
have occurred. This shows how careful people
should be not to come down late for dinner on
Irish stew days.
Two thousand people interested in pedes-
trianisra were present at the match between 'he
crack English walkers, J. W. Raby and J. Hlbbord,
to walk tor the one-hour championship and £100,
on the quarter-mile track at the Liilie Bridge
Grounds, London, August 20. On being dismissed.
Baby, with the inside position, led, and, at the end
of the second circuit, ten yards separated the men.
From this point, however, Hibberd fell in the rear
at every stride, and by the time three miles had
been covered, Raby was in possession of such a
commanding lead as to place the issue beyond all
doubt. The race from this point admits of little
description, as Hibberd proved unable to reduce
his formidable opponent’s advantage, and ulti-
mately Raby won easily. Baby’s time for one
mile was 6min. 234seo., or just the odd half second
behind William Perkins’ great record. The follow-
ing mile times are now the best on record, while
from three miles up to seven all the fractional
times are also the best: Two miles, 13mln. 14sec.:
three miles, 20min. 2Hsec.; four miles, 27rain. 38sec.;
five miles, 35min. lOsec.; six miles, 41min. 3sec.;
seven miles, 51min. 4sec. The distance accom-
plished in the hour by the winner was 8 m. 180 yds.
2 ft., which falls short of Meagher’s American
record.
The regatta committees seem determined
to encourage the old-fashioned deep open boats,
judging from the limited crew races placed upon
their programmes. The race on Saturday last for
open boats was limited to a crew of four, but no
limit was placed on the sail to be carried. The 24
and 22 feet cracks, Carlotta and Rosetta, started,
but were beaten by the old Sea Breeze, built some
twelve or fifteen years ago, which may be de-
scribed more as a small open yacht than an open
centreboard boat. The Rosetta led round the
lightship, but a heavy squall came up and she was
compelled to reduce sail owing to her limited
crew, and the Sea Breeze, packed with half a
ton of ballast and a racing sail, took pride
of place and won as she liked. So, far as the
Carlotta is concerned, we sailed in her in most of
her big races, and we feel for the humiliation of
the dyer in being distanced by boats that she could
sail rings rounds were she properly handled and
rigged. It is to be hoped that If the Regatta
people in future seo fit to restrict crews, they will
also restrict the sails to ordinary working canvas.
Sub-Rosa.
THE LAST TO GO UNDER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dear Fred, I am in a quandary
On the best way of taking my doom,
For I’ve made up my mind that 111 many,
The question that bores me is, whom? ((
Since repentance is vain when I ve tied it,
I thought that, before I’d propose,
I’d write to a friend who has tried it
For counsel—mind I under the rose.
You see, prospects are not quite too pleasing,
My assets are just about-blank.
For though my accounts are increasing
Alas 1 it is not with the bank;
And 1 feel with each change in the seasons
A twinge of the dearest of foes.
Are not these the most potent of reasons—
For marrying—under the rose ?
You know I have no predilection
For what Shakespeare and Sladen call love,
Mine are those ideas of selection
That Simms and Experience approve;
So I drafted the girls in the market
Into “ Doubtfuls ” and “ Yes’s and Noes,
And their virtues, position, and prospects
I fossicked out—under the rose.
Then I ran down the schedule of yes’s,
And weeded the worst of the girls;
The widows and those antique misses,
Who hanker for poodles and curls.
In short, after careful revision,
I’ve fastened my ticket on two;
But, ’ere making the final decision,
I send the prospectus to you.
The one is a sensitive flower.
Truth lies in her gentle blue eye;
But her love is the wealth of her dower,
and you know that my screw is not high.
The other is tall, dark, and dashing,
With a soupfon of retrousse nose—
When her dark eye upon me is flashing,
I tremble, Fred 1—under the rose.
Of course, my dear boy, you’ll be ready
To act as my second, t :is once.
For I may be—well, rather unsteady—
Since, as yet, it’s my only offence.
01 you who have passed the ordeal,
And know what its terrors disclose.
Be helpful to me, and be leal—
And counsel me—under the rose.
HUGH K. LIPTUS.
Brunswick, Melbourne.


QPERA HOUSE.
Lessee Mr. W. J. Wilson
GRAND COMEDY SEASON,
under the management of
MR. WYBBRT REEVE,
Brilliant Audiences. Enthusiastic Reception.
Immense Success of Halllday’s celebrated comedy,
FOR LOVE OR MONEY
FOR LOVE OR MONEY
EVERY EVENING.
MR. WYBBRT REEVE as MAJOR BUNCOMBE.
Magnificent Scenery and Stage Appointments.
Stage Manager .. .. Mr. Herbert Flemming
Acting Manager .. .. Mr. J. W. Dodge.
Overture at 8: carriages, 10.30.
Box office at Huenerbeln’s, 411 Geo.-st. Tickets
may be obtained at Roberts’s, next Theatre.
Prices as usual. NO FREE LIST.
THEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & Mesgrove.
TRIUMPHANT RETURN
of the
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
A Greater Success than ever]
THIS and EVERY EVENING,
at a quarter to 8,
LA FILLE DU TAMBOUR MAJOR.
Prices as usual. Box office open from 11 till 4..
General Business Manager, Mr. H. H. Harwood.
XHIBITION BUILDING.
PRINCE ALFRED PARK.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 1.
The Eloquent and Popular Speaker,
ANNA M. L. POTTS, M.D.,
of the Female Medical College of Pennsylvania,
will commence her course of
MEDICAL LECTURES,
discussing
PHYSIOLOGY, HEALTH, and DISEASE.
These Lectures will treat of the Structures and
Laws of the Brain and Nerves.
Cause and Cure of Nervousness, Neuralgia, Sick
Headache, Catarrh.
Effects of Alcohol and Narcotics.
The Eye, Ear, and Tongue.
FOOD AND DIGESTION.
How to Cure and Avoid Dyspepsia.
The Liver and its Diseases.
The Lungs and Consumption.
Structure and Care of the Skin.
The Muscles and their work.
Illustrated by a Magnificent Collection of Ana-
tomical Specimens and
OIL PAINTINGS,
the most accurate and beautiful in the world,
containing many full-length and life-size Figures,
which show all the Organs of the Body. The
collection embraces beautiful Microscopic Views
and Chemical Diagrams. It also includes interest-
ing groups of Historical Portraits.
FRIDAY AFTERNOON, NOVEMBER 3.
at 3 o’clock,
A LECTURE WILL BE GIVEN FOB LADIES
ONLY.
TWO FIRST LECTURES FREE.
AFTERNOON LECTURES
to
LADIES ONLY.
EVENING LECTURES TO BOTH SEXES.
E
SATURDAY AFTERNOON EXCURSIONS.
FERN BAY.
Steamers will run from No. 4 Jetty, Circular
Quay, ever | ATURDAY AFTERNOON,
during the Summer Months, at 3.30 and 3 p.m.,
returning i t 6 and 6.30 p.ra.
MERCANTILE BAND specially engaged for the
Pavilion. Swings, Quoits, Skittles, Football, &c.
Refreshments Obtainable on the grounds.
Return Tickets, Is. 6d
EDUCATIONAL.
MISS LYDIA HASTINGS instructs in VOICE
BUILDING, ELOCUTION, PUBLIC and
PARLOUR READINGS. Class at SYDNEY
1CHOOL OF ARTS, Friday, 4 p.m.; and at
SYDNEY - ARCADE, Room £5, Thursday, 3 p.m.,
Wednesday, 8 p.m. (Ladies and Gentlemen).
Visitors Invited.
Private Lessons, for Ladies or Gentlemen,
84 HUNTER STREET, opposite Ellzabcth-street.
Terms for Schools or Clubs on application.
DA'CING.
MRS. FRED. WABSKI T T
wishes to notify the parents of pupils that
she intends giving the Last Lesson of the Season,
OT Rn EXHIBITION OF DANCING,
at the
MASONIC HALL, YOBK-STREET,
on the
EVENING OF NOVEMBER 1st. at 8 p.m.
ALLDUM HOUSE, 389 Pitt-street.
LS.A-THE OWL CLUB (MELBOURNE)
• Sydney Visitors to Melbourne durmg the
approaching Race Week are reminded that
THE OWL CLUB CARNIVAL BAL MASQUE
-vrilltake place in the MELBOURNE EX HIBITION
BUILDING, on the evening of THURSDAY, 8th
NOVEMBER. Admission Cards—Double, 17s 6d.;
Single Gentleman. 15s.; Extra, Lady, 7s. 6d.; Bal-
conies, 3s. Applications for Cards of Admission
received at Mesats. NIcho son & Co.’s Music Ware-
house, Collins-street East, Melbourne.
MICHAEL GILHOOLBY, Hon. Sec.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
TO LET from 6th November next. Terms on
application to Thos. Setright, care of
Elvy and Co., 339 George-street, Sydney ; or the
undersigned,
JAMES B. HICKIE,
Brisbane.
T
HOMPSON’S
COLOSSAL MIRROR ©F THE
ZULU WAR.
NEW DIORAMA
OF
EGYPTIAN W A R I
W. H. THOMPSON, Proprietor.
8YL. RYAN, Agent.
TO PROFESSIONAL TROUPES.
NOW open for engagement at NYNGEN, near
Railway Station, the
“ ASSEMBLY ROOMS,"
large and well-appointed HALL. Apply to
HEARD & M'KENN A, Agent*.
T!hLe ISeliaTble ZBvLgrgries!
NO SECOND CHEAP HOUSE.
22 and 24 CLARENCE STREET, ONLY,
FOR GOOD GOODS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS & WAGGONETTES,
BACKBOARD WAGGONS, AND EVERY STYLE OF BUGGY.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Clarence-street.
m
VIRTUTIS GLORIA MERGES.
COALCLIFF COAL.
This NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY supplies* the CHEAPEST, CLEANEST, and
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming: Coal In the Colony,
II per Ton net, delivered within city bounds.
more
Newcasi
and cleanly as a
none of That disagreeable odour of the unwhole-
oT some kinds of English coal of heating an Iron or cooking a steak as thorou
charcoal or breeze Are, while It Imparts to the steak
some fumes given off by a breeze or gas Are.
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
Office: A. B. BLACK, 247 George Street.
DEPOT: WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
BROOKS SEWING [COTTONS
mm
s
Jr
SB
Q
o
&
Q
O
o
8
s*
&
|sA &
Oe
BROOK’S SIX-CORD
SOFT COTTON
ON
NEW SHOULDER REEL
VERY CAREFULLY MADE
BROOK’S PATENT
«» I GLAC£ THREAD
HAND & MACHINE SEWING,
• White,Black*all Colours A MEW SHOULDER REEL. *
. /W
JBBS, BRIGHT & CO., 98 Pitt-street, Merchants, 8hip.
ping and Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO., LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS A SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
Principal Agencies *
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON-Head Office : HONGKONG.
J. C. Goatling and Company (Limited)—Portland Cement.
The Tunnel Portland Cement Company (Limited) —Portland Cement
Marshall, Sons and Company (Limited), Gainsborough—Portable Horizontal, and Vertical Engines,
Threshing Machines, Saw Benches, &c., &c.
I Company.
Vivian and Sons—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penyrorsedd Slate Company (Limited)—Bangor Slates.
The Quicksilver Mining Company, San Francisco —Quicksilver.
Fels and Company, of Patras and Corfu—Currants.
dCo.-
npa: .. . ,
De Wendel and Company, Hayange, France—Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plates, Iron and
Thos. Bell and Co’.—English Hams, Baoon, &c., &c.
Red Cross Preserving Company, Victoria—Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, &c.
Steel Fencing Wire, &c.
Thos. Perry and Son, Bi Is ton—Fire-resisting Safes.
Drybrough and Co., Edinburgh—Ale.
Brunton and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse.
Thos. N. Hunt—Port Wine.
Dubos Frtres, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablis, Sautemes
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES.
Nhw South Walks.— Scott and Muilaly, T. Ailsop, F. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros.,
Jfcndera Mill Co.
Victoria.—James Fry and Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
Sovth Australia.— w. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hinoks.
from all parts of the world. Consignments
INDENTS executed, on the most favourable
of produce received for shipment to
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(limited)
LINE of FAST INTB RCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS.
Offices : 43 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NE8DATS. and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday
Steamers Brisbane to Bundaberg, Gladstone, and
Port Maokay, every fortnight.
Fleet op Steamships:
♦ To arrive.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
43 King Street, Sydney.
Important Notice to every
Country Resident.
BAIOBM.,
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS,
235 & 237 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Are making great efforts to increase their large
country trade. A Special Department for the
exclusive benefit of those who reside away from
Sydney is now established.
The exorbitant prices country tailors charge are
almost prohibitive to many. We are changing all
this.
TRY US ! TRY US 1
If you wish to get a real good tailor's-made gar-
ment, write for our easy manual of self-measure-
ment, sent post free to all parts of the colony,
with patterns, styles, and tape.
Sydney Prices, Metropolitan Pit
and Workmanship.
Suits, to Measure £3 3 O
Trousers, to Measure O 16 6
ALL WOOL, AND SHRUNK.
H.L. Summerfield & Co.
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS.
ONLY SYDNEY ADDRESS-
235 and 237 Pitt-street.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 33nd October, 1883.
TENDERS FOR WOODEN BUILDING.
TENDERS are invited for the erection of a
Wooden Building, for Public School purposes,
at Kogarah.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Department
ot Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Wooden Build-
ing, Kogara Public School,” must be lodged with
the Acting Under-Secretary, Department of
Public Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock a.m.,
on Monday, the 13 th November, 18f3.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender.
G. H. REID.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 32nd October, 1883.
TENDERS FOR WOODEN BUILDING.
TENDERS are invited for the erection of a
Wooden Building, for Public School purposes,
at Main Camp, between Brush Farm and Ryde.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and forms
of T«nder obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Wooden Build-
ing, Main Camp Public School,” must be lodged
with the Acting Under-Secretary, Department of
Public Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock a.m.,
on M no ay, the 12th November, 1883.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender.
G. H. REID.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
39to October. 1883.
ADDITIONAL WHARF REGULATIONS.
IT is hereby notified, for general information,
that His Exoeellency the Governor, with the
advice of the Executive Council, has been pleased
to frame the following “Additional Wharl Regula-
tions,” under and pursuant to the provisions oi
the Act 44 Vic. No. 8.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
Regulations for the use of the Landing
Stage on the south-east corner of the
Circular Quay.
1. The Stage to be used only for the purpose of
embarking or landing passengers and their personal
luggage, but no luggage is to be left upon the stage.
2. Steam launches or other vessels shall only be
permitted to He alongside when taking in or dis-
charging passengers, and the stage shall not ne
used as a mooring place.
3. No vessels whose registered tonnage exceeds
100 tons shall be allowed to use the stage.
|4. Exclusive of Sundays, and holidays set apart for
regattas, boat-races, and other public festivities,
the charge for the use of the stage shall be lt®M
which amount shall cover any further use tne
same vessel may make of it on the same day. R*
the other cases mentioned, the charge to any vessel
using the stage shall be 16s. for the day.
5. No vessel shall be permitted to He alongside
for more than twenty minutes at any one time.
6. No cart or vehicle is to be permitted to come
upon the stage.
7. For the contravention or infraction of any o
the above regulations the master or owner oi anj
vessel so offending shall he subject to a flue no
exceeding five pounds nor less than two pounds-
8. The 1st, 4th, 6th, 8th, 13th, and 14th clauses of
the Regulations of 24th August, 1880, shall be ap
pHcable to this landing stage.
The Treasury, a ew South Wales,
29th October, 1883.
mpLU ULIUUCI j a
IT is hereby notified, for the information °i
ship captains, agents, and the public genenmj
that the Electric Light at Circular Quay V . _»t
be lighted for five nights In each -
full moon and two nights before and after ’ jj
to take effect from November proximo, in w
month full moon occurs on the 15th day.
GEORGE R. DIMM**


FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
An ice-manufactory has been started in
Townsville. Dives will have his tongue cooled at
jaat A Cooma boy swore lately that he identi-
fied a man on a dark night at sixty yards distance.
That boy will make a superb picnic policeman
some day Referring to Mrs. Langtry’s intended
Australasian tour, the Burbawano Herald says:
“The portrait of this beauty indicates that she has.
at least, the eye of lewdness.” The desire upper-
most in the minds of readers of this, is to see Dr.
Simms’ carte of the person who wrote it.... Coota-
mundra must be growing moral. The sergeant of
police there has applied to the authorities for a
handcart, in which to remove Inebriates to the
lock-up. Why, when we knew it, nothing smaller
than a van would have been of any use for this
purpose....There are 45,000,000 barn-door fowls
in France. When Lord Gussy reads this he will
turn green with envy—The old lunatic woman
who escaped the other day from the Melbourne
watch-house, has not been found yet. It is sup-
posed she is on her way over here, to apply for the
editorship of a Sydney paper.... Isn’t it a huge joke
to call the Luther celebration a Munster affair ?....
Granville growls for a local lock-up. It does seem
hard that a respectable citizen, having got reason-
ably drunk, has to travel three miles before he
can seek the seclusion which a stone-jug grants.
Constable Wilson considerately carts all those who
have been where the corn is waving by train to
Parramatta. And they travel, of course, as dead
(drunk) heads.... Two men have been sentenced at
Sale, Victoria, to five years’ imprisonment and
two floggings, for ill-using a Chinaman. They
are to be flogged with a pig-tail....An open
question—Shall we put into the hands of our
larrikins “ the secret of England’s greatness,” or a
cat-o'-nine-tails into the hands of our policemen ?..
A fish delicacy always to be had at Newcastle,
N.S.W., is crimped souls au matelot.... Two young
girls fell into the river at Mount Macquarie, near
Blayney, a few days ago, and were drowning when
a game youngster of eleven years, named Darring-
ton, went to their assistance. He could do
however, and all three were drowned — Dr.
Beaney threatens to sue a member of Melbourne
hospital committee for £20,000 damages, unless the
atter publicly with draws a statement made by
him to the effect that he (Dr. Beaney) “ murdered ”
a patient A man named Horton, of Taralga
backs himself to shear 200 sheep in 8}£hours...’
The firmest friendship in the world exists between
two “ eighteen-stonera ” of this city. The other
day someone remarked, “ How thick they are to-
gether.” “Thick together!” said Wag; “why,
either one of them, alone, is half as thick again as
the average human being.” —At Sandhurst, the
other day, a gentleman was found guilty of forgery.
This is his fifth conviction; and we are sorry to
state that, although he landed in the colonies some
twelve years back, he has had but a small amount
of “colonial experience,” for he has spent
eleven of those years in colonial gaols. Such
a man as this must be, by nature, a recluse
Kerosene, we are informed, was first used for
lighting purposes in 1826. Very good. Now, we
should like to know when it was first used for
drinking purposes Horror of horrors I So in the
town of the Wapping butcher indignity has
been heaped on his ambassadors. AtWagga, the
other night, Smith and Lule, the self-ap-
pointed Tiohborne vindicators, lectured to an
enthusiastic crowd. They had a warm re-
ception. Papers were pinned to the coat-tails
of the two gentlemen, and then ignited
A boy named Omar Arthur suicided at Border
Town (S.A.), because he had been punished by his
parents. He bolted enough strychnine for ten
men A youth was prosecuted at Walgett last
week for throwing pepper on a ball-room floor.
The evidence was not clear, and he was discharged.
....Heie's an opening for an honest man to make
his pile: There are exactly 171 deserters from
H.M ships at present loose in Victoria alone. And
there are just 172 in this colony also. Anyone who
ropes a deserter receives a reward of £8. There-
fore, £2744 is knocking about waiting for someone
to scoop the poo1....Garranny, after reporting
that a discovery of human remains has been made
at Diraboola, evidently of a woman torn to pieces
by dogs, adds: “ There is as yet no clue as to the
e use of her death.” The £20 prize offered by
Campbell Bros., of the Furnishing Arcade, for the
best essay on the timbers of New South Wales,
was won by Mr. Augustus Rudder, of Long Nose
Point, Balmain,
•
The editor of the Chinese newspaper
which is regularly published In New York recently
stated that there were two hundred of his country-
men in the Empire City ready to cut any man’s
throat for the sum of fifteen dollars. The state-
ment, remarks a Yankee journal, is really dis-
heartening, for it only supplies another proof that
under the competition of our brethren from the
Flowery Kingdom every branch of American in-
dustry is going to the dogs—There is a French
law, dating from 1790, which authorises the local
authorities to forbid keepers of caf6s and other
liquor-sellers from employing women and girls as
waiters, except where they are members of the
family. This law has been enforced at Grenoble,
It might be enforced all the world over An
English paper is about to be started in Paris in op-
position to Galignani Amongst those present
at the laying of the Garfield Monument Corner-
stone (San Francisco), there must have been some
awfully howling swells, since we note among the
names of the company present, those of the Grand
High Priest of Arkansas, the Grand Commander
of Nebraska, the Grand Captain of the Guard of
the Grand Encampment, and so on. No wonder
the “Wasp” was excited to sting —In Victor
Hugo’s “ La Legende des Siecles,” there is a most
dramatic.description of the appearance of the
Judges of the earth to give an account of them-
selves before the Angel upon whose brow was
writ in letters of fire, the name of “ Justice.” As
the ’s, the ’s, the ’s, the Eldons, the
Jeffreyses, look upon the Angel’s face, they
whisper one to another: “Que veut dire ce
mot qu’il porto sur son front ?” (What Is
the meaning of that word wrlttea on his
forehead ?) This strikes us as being the
“straight tip.” English cavalry soldiers are
>n future to be allowed to rise in their stirrups—
There are scattered over the world about 2700
Young Men’s Christian Associations. This saves
the devil trouble : he gets them in groups... The
dismemberment of the Territory of Utah and its
division among Colorado, Nevada, and Arizona is
the latest proposal for “getting at” Mormonism.
— The charger on which Stonewall Jackson was
riding when he received his death wound has been
sent to the Virginia Military Institute to be cared
for. If the horse was five year old when Jackson
fell, it is new over 35 yeai s The Geodetic Con-
ference sitting at Rome have advised the universal
adoption of the meridian of Gieenwich. Remark,
able effect of the mneumonlc influence of white-
bait!— A New York jury, after indulging in the
usual amount of due deliberation and cheap vic-
tuals, recently decided that a marriage without
ceremonies of any kind, either civil or ecclesias-
tical, is valid and and binding on both parties.
Lawyers and Laymen.
From a little Melbourne publication, The
Imperial, Review, we have quoted else-
where in this issue a set of verses. We now
give a bit of prose, condensed from the
same source:—
“Why do we worship this horrid Jugger-
naut? It is folly to look for reform from
the lawyers.
“The Law insists on a cruel symmetry,
like the Procrustean bed on which the tyrant
of old placed his victims, hacking them to
fit in. Justice cannot be dealt out after
this fashion. The only fair principle is that
of arbitration, without reference to stan-
dards, precedents, or case-law, except in
illustrating. Going to law is playing with
fire, and horrid knives. The wrong is just
as likely to triumph as the right. Justice is
bought. Money is the grand engine for ob-
taining success in the law courts. The rich
man nearly always comes off best ultimately.
When the Law says “Possession is nine-
tenths,” it also means that possession of the
most money secures nine-tenths of Justice.
The ablest barrister is the man who can best
pervert the course of justice, by biassing
the minds of juries and judges. Employ a
first-class man, and your chances of success
are proportionately multiplied. Otherwise,
how would barristers make money? Only a
rich man can enjoy the luxury of an
ultimate appeal to the Privy Council,
because a deposit of £500 is required. We
remember a case where a poor man, in Mel-
bourne, obtained a verdict against a rich
man, who appealed to the Privy Council,
and had it 'capsized. If the rich man had
been successful, in the first instance, the
poor man could not have afforded to appeal
to the Privy Council. Therefore justice is
bought by the longest purse.
“The Bourgeois lord it over our generation.
This body of people toils not, spins not,
fights not. It is the Gigmanity of Carlyle,
shuffling out of every obligation, and yet
reaping all the benefit*, while the Roths-
ohilds fester in wealth, there Is stated to he
only one Jew in the whole British Army.
We may be sure he is the biggest fool in all
“The Parliament of Victoria appended an
indelible stigma to the Law by declaring
that the operation of the Land Act 1869
should be entirely outside the jurisdiction of
the Supreme Court. If the Law be the
fountain of Justice, why should there be a
necessity for such a provision as that ? Of
course, Parliament thereby determined that
the operation of the Law was unjust, iniqui-
tous, and opposed to the fundamental in-
stincts of right and wrong.
“British law is scattered over about
40,000 volumes of books, indeed many more.
What a scandal is this. Even a judge does
not know the law a highly-fee’d
counsel roots it out for him from the mighty
maze, which is entirely without a plan,
scattered over reports and text writers,
sophistical refiners, who, as Disraeli said of
Gladstone, are ‘intoxicated with the exub-
erance of their own verbosity.’ Unless a
suitor can afford to pay extravagantly for
an able barrister, he cannot get good law
placed before the judges, and therefore ho
loses his case, quite irrespective of its merits.
Don’t you see the monstrous imposition of
the whole thing? The people who go to
law are divisible into two classes: those who
know nothing, and those who know too
much. There is a class of professional
litigant continually figuring at the courts.
He knows all the ropes and dodges, the ins
and outs of the swindlery, likeastageplayer
at his vocation, or the lawyer himself at
his.
“ The really noble side of British Law ig
the Criminal Department, with all its fenc-
ing in of the liberty of the subject. While
admiring this, we have half a notion that it
is grounded to some extent on the piinciple
of making work for the lawyers. Techni-
cality is the bane. It must be swept clean
away. Let everything be stated in plain
English. Talking of the criminal side, it
ought to be insisted upon that jurhs should
fix the sentences as well as determine the
sentence of guilty or not guilty.
“ Look again at how the possession of
money warps the course of justice on the
criminal side, as well as the civil. ‘ Plate sin
with gold, and the lance of justice hurtless
breaks.’ Mind you, the poorest man has a
good chance if he is innocent, because pro-
perty does not like to be at the cost of feed-
ing mouths in gaol. Come, however, to the
guilty who have money. They can avail
themselves of the glorious privileges of a
Briton. We see poor wretches shunted into
prison continually who could get off with-
out doubt if they were able to fee a counsel.
What sort of justice is that ? Why are not
all men equal before this boasted law of
ours? Money, money, nothing but the
golden key can open the palace.
“ The people are disgusted with the whole
box and dice. It is out of harmony with
the age, which is sick of chicanery, and de-
mands fair play throughout life. Suitors
don’t want to hear about Lord Justice This
and Lord Justice That, but they want jus-
tice itself, which does not inspect the scales
to see where the ‘ sugar ’ is planted.”
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Brother Osborne offended his Wesleyan
brethren by attending the requiem mass for Arch-
bishop Vaughan, so now their cry Is “Wreck we
him I”
Holme, sweet Holme, the Vicar of All Souls,
Leichhardt, invites offering from wealthy church-
men who are thankful to God for the seasonable
weather of the past 12 months, towards the nmv
Church of All Souls, now nearly completed at 0
cost of £5000. He evidently thinks that gratitude
like charity (and with charity) should begin at
holme. He likes, d’ye see, to feel the everlasting
alms beneath him (in a plate).
The last shipment of Mormon recruits
from Europe to New York appears to be a very
inferior “ parcel.” Some of them are described as
crippled, some as blind, and all of them as being
unacquainted with soap and water. One of the
peculiar characteristics of “saints,” at all times, is
an indisposition to wash themselves; but blind and
crippled proselytes can scarcely be to the taste of
the “ Elders,” and wo fancy Mormonlsm will soon
die a natural death if no better class of female
“ goods ” than these can be supplied.
Day by day the phraseology of the Church
is becoming more and more applicable to the cir-
cumstances of everyday life. Set a parson to
speak at a birth, a marriage, or a death, and you
can engage that he will introduce some expression
that no longer carries to the hearers any or the old
feeling of sacredness. The expression does no
harm, as it Is not expected to generate a thought.
It drops into the ears like a pleonism, an old com-
bination of tones, a vox et prceterea nihil, a thing
that is somehow expected on the occasion, and that
it is as well to let spin itselflout. The pulpit, in the
general conduct of its representatives, has, at all
events, among reputable expounders, surrendered
the antique quaintnesses in favour of the
vocabulary of common sense, but a birth
or a death turns back the records, and the
reverend expounder sinks a century or two to
I the rear. The Rev. Richard Connebee was, the
other day, lowered into a grave in the Boroondara
cemetery, and, as he was deservedly well-respected
by his brother clerics of Melbourne, they attended
in numbers, and poured forth their sentiments in
the primitive way. Several of the speakers—the
Rev. J. King and the Rev. D. J. Hamer, for in-
stance-know well enough how to express them-
selves in modern English, but, with the coffin
before them, their eloquence was of a far back
archaic school. It was made up of strange substan-
tives, and still stranger connections. The poetic
“passing,” and “the dead righteous,” and “the
brother which sleeps unto us,” recalled the fact
that modern English has supplied the churches
with no vocabulary for the solemn issues of
existence.
As anticipated, Mr. Osborne’s censors in
the profession have prevailed. The independence
of the man’s character has shocked the mummies
who feel that unless every man of their order
thinks by rote, and acts by rule, existence would
be too great a burden altogether. There can bo
no question that, were the average minister left to
discover for himself a reason for the faith that is
in him, and rules of action based upon intelligent
reasonings of his own thinking out, ho would be
in a terrible quandary. Creeds are the crutches
which support weak-kneed theologlsts, and prece-
dents are their staffs. Active-minded men are never
limited by the definitions of bygone generations.
They are perpetually absorbing the current know-
ledge of their own era, and by permutation con-
structing from it clearer theological views and
broader human feelings. Such men are the
saviours of religion; they harmonize it with the
progression of the human intelligence. But by the
duller or lazier sort they are, and always have
been, regarded with bitter dislike. They stir up
the laity to think, and plunge the ministry in
deep waters. This involves a probability of the
laity making inconvenient discoveries. For
example, that their clerical leaders are unable to
swim when deprived of their usual buoys—creeds
and customs. Men who can float very gracefully
while the waters are still, and no one detaches
them from these supports, on the plea that they
are artificial, make a sad spluttering when called
upon to show their actual accomplishments. It Is
diverting to observe, for example, with how little
dexterity the grave and reverend fathers
conduct their assault upon the strong man
who troubles them with a modern adapta-
tion of Wesley’s ideas, and a nineteenth century
application of “who is my neighbour?’ Forex-
ample, some beloved brethren and venerable
fathers charged Mr. Osborne with having been
dishonourable, unmanly, and ungentlemanly—the
offence being that he attended a requiem service
In connection with the death of Archbishop
Vaughan. The last quoted epithet, “ungentle-
manly,” Is absolutely grotesque. What has a
man’s social condition or deportment to do with
his religious opinions or conduct ? Is it necessary
1 hat a man should be a gentleman before he can be
received into communion as a Wesleyan 7 Then
Christ could never have been admitted a Wesleyan,
for assuredly He was no gentleman — in the
Wesleyan sense of the term.
* * •
The clergymen of are in great
tribulation over the Sunday mall delivery there...
Thus The Liberal : “ Chess with dressed up living
figures at the «te in the Exhibition Building, in
aid of one of God’s houses, North Shore. The
facetious announcement was made that the
pawns led by their uncle were pledged to do their
best’ We are told that ‘Sir Hugo de Jam Puff,
knight of Her Gracious Majesty the Queen of
Arts, and Sir Bois de Bullseye, Knight of her
Gracious Majesty the Queen of Clubs, contended
against each other, and generally the masquer-
aders had a fine time. What a trouble it is now-a-
days to keep up places for ckrical attorneys to
pray in! And Jesus condemned public prayings,
and deemed a closet the best place for genuine
devotion.” # «
The Church of Rome has obtained in the
Westminster district of London a site on which to
erect a rival building to Westminster Abbey. Its
price was £115,000 .. Nut for the “ unco guid to
crack ;—Among the remarkable Instances of
escape during the terrible earthquake at Ischia
were those of Prince Badini and his son, who were
playing cards, the entire audience at the theatre,
and the actors, among whom was a comedian, one
Petito, in a Punchinello’s costume. Facts (as
London Punch observes) worth noting by the
Pharisaical denouncers of cardplaying, theatrical
entertainments, and actors.
More health, sunshine and joy in Hop
Bitters than in all other remedies. Observe.
A SOCIAL OBLIGATION. HIS SHOUT!
Promising Recruit, to Earnest Teetotaller: “Well, now I’ve signed the pledge,
and it’s all over, I s’pose you’ll jiue me in a glass of summat?”
AT THE DEAN’6 SERMON.


BRIEF MENTION.
The “Song of Solomon.”—Try, Try, Try
Again.”
Alderman Booth, of Dubbo, says he doesn’t
care for the devil. But, fortunately, the devil Is
very fond of aldermen.
A Duff stationmaster at Nyngan was ban-
queted the other night by his fellow-employ ds.
They all sat down to Duff.
In a Southern town, while the funeral of a
lawyer was passing, the lightning shattered twelve
telegraph-posts, we always gave the devil credit
for more patience.
A barrister is aoting as aide-de-camp to
the Governor of West Australia. In reality, there’s
nothing anomalous in the circumstance, since to
act as aide-de-soamp is many an advocate’s lot.
Ninian Melville thinks it hard that people
should be blown into eternity without any warning.
Hard on the Undertaker—yes. They should at least
have had time to order a coffin before going. N.M.
is an undertaker.
A Queensland editor shot a 17-ft. alligator
the other day. He Is now waiting to shoot another
of the same size. Then he will have the pair soled
and heeled, and be able to hide his feet for the first
time In many years.
Bobby to obstinate inebriate: “Lave go
that post can’t ye an’ come along wld me?” In-
ebriate politician: “No fearsh, ole fellow, don’sh
y’ know the new Lan’ Billsh says we mush go in
for flxshlty o’ tenure—hiol”
Gradus ad Parnassum: —Halter ego, a bad
egg; Amor patrise, Erin-go-bragh; Tabi la rasa, a
barber’s block ; Arcades ambo, the Sydney Ar-
cades; Felo de (red)se, a Suezclde : Deslpere in
lo(w)co, to swipe at a pot-house ; Sub judioe, a
tipstaff; Sartor resartus, A. G. Taylor calling at-
tention to strangers. [To be continued.]
Fontana’s Wales as a Field-Marshal shows
the Hope of the Empire grasping his baton in his
right hand and his sword In his left. A six-shooter
between his teeth, now, would about fix up the
warrior aspect to rights. Fontana, too, knowing
that Albert Edward s soul is not above buttons,
has minutely chiselled St. George and the Dragon
on every blessed button upon Wales’s coat. The
great sculptor goes in for severe simplicity; the
fifth-rate one for sartorial detail ana—chiselled
buttons. Yah 1
[Thus the fellow who does G arran ny’s
Berlin (Wool) letter “The whole road from the
station at Rudderheim to the monument will be
formed in a splendid and sumptuous, via trumphiles
etc.” But vy, O vy, a trumphiies ? vy not a via
t/riumphdLis ?
A curious fight took place near Wagga
lately. A iamb was dying on the roadside, and an
Iguana came up to feast on it. The iguana was
attacked by an eaglehawk, and, after a while, had
to give in. The eaglehawk then finished the lamb.
How would this do for a table i—Dramatispersonce:
A Lamb, our bleeding country; an Iguana, the hun-
gry squatter; an Eaglehawk, the bloated bank ?
The Wagga Star has been shown a radish
13 inches in circumference and 18 inches long. The
owner of it, when he went round to the office, had
it fixed to his waist with a dog-chain, and took a
policeman with him. The editor is consequently
unable to say whether the radish had a good flavour
or not. There is no encouragement for literature
in the country.
So some Nelson sailors have been dancing
hornpipes at a bazaar in aid of St. Thomas’, North
Shore. In Australia, the Church has evidently
entered into a league with the world, the flesh, and
the devil. It accepts from these tributes in the
shape of holy hornpipes; it allows sacred sucking-
pigs to be gambled for in the shadow of cathedral
pillars; and smug saints smile while in fanes to be
ere long consecrated to the Almighty nigger min-
strels twang the banjo, and sylphs with short dresses
and deucedly neat ankles “tell fortunes” for all
comers at two-and-slx a pop. Verily, the daughters
of the land of Moab have kissed the vicar and en-
circled with their arms the waist of the curate.
Oh, and they had a “living chess match ” in aid of
a church, the other night, and the faithful rolled
up to see it. Not the bishops, but the queens, were
the attraction. Suggestive this, isn’t it ? Was it
Intended to typify that the life of modern eccle-
siastical organisations depended not so much on
clerics as on women ?
Sir Henry Parkes threw away nearly
£30,000 of public money on works of art. He
should have bought bullock-harness with it.
What do we want with art or beauty or poetry, or
nonsense of that sort ? This is the hide-and-tallow
era, and M’Elhone is its prophet. If Sir Henry had
spent 20 millions on art he would not have made
us any more artistic. And he did not impress the
English people much with our culture, Judging by
what the Pall Mall Gazette says of the statue of
New South Wales carved by Signor Fontana—” she
will probably come up to the expectations of the
loyal and patriotic citizens who voted the money.”
She probably will. The Pall Mall Gazette evi-
dently believes that she will come up to our expec-
tations If she bears anything like resemblance to the
human flgu re. Lots of English journals take it for
? ranted that the only ideas of art we have are got
rom wax-work shows and gift-dioramas. And we
begin to believe they are right.
A curious craze was that of an old gentle-
man who died lately in Prance. He kept an exact
entry in a log-book of all he had drunk for the
last iifty years. His daily allowance was seven
pints of wine; two glasses of absinthe before each
meal, and twelve little glasses of cognac, rum, or
some other spirit “ to drive away despondency.”
He must have had a good deal of despondency.
But this is no new practice. Turn to a file of a
certain daily, and you have a record of all the
stait has drunk since it started, If you are a deli-
cate person, the mere sight will intoxicate you.
Think, then, of the effect this literature of liquor
must have had on its regular readers. But waste
no grief upon them. They are now at peace,
where the shadows of the tombstones lengthen,
and the wind endeavours in vain to shade the tin
immortelles.
We thought that our Judges had made the
working up of contempt of Court cases a very
high art, but, as usual, America is ahead of us
even in this. An American lawyer, meeting a
friend in the street who was a Justice of the
Peace, slapped him on the shoulder, and, in the
hilarity of his heart (the lawyer’s heart we mean),
enquired cheerily—addressing him as “old cock”
—how he did. A few days later, when the lawyer
appeared in Court, the justice lined him £10 for
contempt, adding “ I’ll tache ye, me lad, that this
Coort is an object of contimpt wheniver and
wheriver ye may meet it.” This, anecdote has, of
course, no applicability to the Bench in this
country. Our Judges may try to make us believe
that they are objects of contempt, but we know
better. That is only their little joke. It is, per-
haps, within the limits of possibility that they may
be just a trifle in error at times—but only just.
[The writer of this paragraph is now chained down
in the cellar.— Ed. B ]
Now for an item after our own heart.
Sarsaparilla, dearest, play the “ Dead March ”
softly while we write this. A Melbourne paper
says that paupers are burled in the cemetery over
there with only two or three inches of earth cover-
ing their wretched coffins, while close by are the
bones of the rich growing comfortably green
under tons of monumental marble. Do you know
the reason of this? But of course you don’t.
You have not played cricket with the shoulder-
i blade of a skeleton for a bat and its skull for a
ball, aa we have many a time In our merry child-
hood, neither has the rosy dawn found you, in
your mature age, sleeping In a family vault. Con-
sequently, how could you know ? But we have
made the grave a special study, and the conclusion
we have arrived at with regard to the different
styles of “ planting ” poor and rich cadavers is that
these differences are matters of design. The rich
are kept down with tons of stone ana clay, so that
the poor will have a chance to get to Jehosophat
before them, and and have the first show on the
last day. Otherwise, it is probable the resurrected
rich would be beforehand and try to bribe the
jury.
The Melbourne Dailt Telegraph is a re-
ligious paper, and sits with some emphasis on the
orthodox safety-valve, although the vapours of
heterodoxy threaten to burst the boiler. Its latest
“red rag’’ is Moncure D. Conway. It calls him
“a garrulous gentleman as shallow as Polonius,
and as feebly forcible as Francis Flute, the bellows-
mender, himself.” Mr. Conway’s attempt (a pretty
far-fetched one, It must be allowed) to explain
that the average man is bigger than the average
woman—because in the old days, before women
had to be kotowed to and respected as they are now,
when a big fellow wanted a wife he simply ran
away with the smallest female he could find, hav-
ing first obtained her acquiescence with a whack
of a olothes-prop—does not satisfy the D.T. Con-
way thinks that, as the male children resulting from
these affectionate nuptials took after the father,
and the females after the mother, the result in a
few billion years would be a difference of a couple
of Inches or so in height between the sexes, tm
this, the D.T. remarks: “Did the strong-mindeo
females who were left straightway capture ann
marry, vi et armis, all the little men who were
left ? An operation such as this will explain tne
too obvious fact that this variety of womaakina
surri /es with unabated vigour to the present
day.” There is one branch of the spider family, m
which the female has it all her own way. She w
about ten times the size of the male, and wnen
he evinces any penchant towards marital bac*-
sliding she shows her disapproval by taking mm
by the back or “ scruff” or the neck, and halving
him. But to return to the D.T. It suggests that
Mr. Conway’s departure for Tasmania shouia o*»
made the occasion for an allegorical procession.
“It should be beaded by Mr. B. S. Smytne, m *I!' *
ing to slow music, and with real tears. . •
would be seen very appropriately a night-carw
containing all the adjectives the h
accustomed to expend on Christianity
remainder of the sentence is too malodorous.
Yes: we’ve often said it, and are prepared to sue*
to it—if you want the real aroma of the nuug-
hill you must go to the religious papers lor it.
Contempt of Court.
Terrible (but probable) consequences should Mr. Dailey’s bill become law. (From sketches kindly furnished by S—r A d 8 n.)


The native Victorian, like the native New
South Wales man, is beginning to feel bottom.
CoMequentlT he is also beginning to assert him-
self. Hitherto his attempts at assertiveness amused
the world, and were appropriately termed “ blow-
ing. Now they will provoke another feeling as
well as amusement. The Agents-General in Lon-
don, who have been lately honoured by being
ushered to seats in the front of the gallery of the
House of Commons—for which honour the colonies
are of course profoundly thankful—want a staff
of clerks in their offices. In the office of one
of these Agents-General, it was revealed not
long ago, there were nearly as many clerks
as there were letters to be written in a day
or important matters to be performed in a month
It is likely so in the whole of them. The billet
of clerk is, therefore, a coveted one, and it is
no wonder that, on a vacancy occurring, even the
Briton had a shot. Now, the most loyal of the
colonies puts down its foot, and announces that
only a Victorian “native-born,” as Service ex-
presses it, or a Victorian colonist of ten years’
standing is to be eligible. English families with a
penchant for clerkships will see the advisableness
or coming out to Melbourne, or Koroit, or Undera,
or some of these places, before—well, before the
birth takes place. They can go back afterwards.
°r course. But directly this announcement
reaches them, they will realise that Victoria can
occupy other positions besides that of mere
amusement.
A N.8.W. policeman is one of the wonders
of the present century, for he is the only man who
nas successfully solved that mysterious problem
of now to buy a terrace of houses and a family
me in the cemetery on seven-and-six per diem. In
»ictoria, he is even more fortunate. Those pro-
rbotors of homes, and concealers of our bottled ale
and hash, who are stationed in the Melbourne
barracks, have had engaged for them a French
cook. His name is Henri Louis Dumas. He be-
eves he is a near relative to the great Alexandre
or that ilk, but upon this point he is rather doubt-
ful. He is certain, however, of being able to trans-
IOr ® the oldest bluoher into the most savoury
ragoAt that ever tickled a gourmet’s palate. Under
tender care, the members of the " fooroe ” will
J® 8 ” 1 turn up their noses at the average
p * a . in and then the momentous
arrive- 41 What shall we do with our
certain, now they have such a
kouis to attend to their wants, they
will but require a generous Government to engage
f *weak-minded individuals to tell the truth
wm be flfleTto overfiowing? ° £ hUman happine8S
. Minakiohi is a Japanese genius who
j ave succeeded in making rifles of silk.
a , r ® described as being “rigid as iron guns,
while they are easy of carnage, and have a long
range.” This s an indication of what the arms ol
the future will be. As peace with her olive branch
n- eR^ rded ,5 s onl y an allegory—the aim of
the civilized world must necessarily be to make
war in comfort. The soldiers of the army of the
J^ 11 ’ we have no doubt, bo supplied with
sedan-chairs and camp-stools to sit in when they
are drawn up in line of battle, and with foot-
warmers and umbrellas if the weather should be
+ then, we guess, they will not be
asked to go out to fight unless the weather is tem-
perate. And out of their silk rifles they will shoot
scents that will slay the enemy with sweetness.
And each soldier will be provided with a quart of
whisky before going out to face the foe. What a
fine colonial army we shall have then I But ah, —
when the foe comes, and our army strikes for currie
and hash at the sound of the dinner-bell, what
voices of walling will be raised for the gallant band
that went out.flushed with courage in the morning
and return not at noon I War, even surrounded
with luxury, is terrible. That gallant band will lie
upon the battle-field with their faces turned up to
the sky. They will lie there because they will be
too drunk to get up and run.
A writer in the Argus, in expatiating on
the evergreen Education question, asserts “the
undesirableness, for an obvious reason, of em-
ploying as female assistant the young wife of the
head teacher.” What we yearningly turn our
eyes round In search of, is this “ obvious reason.”
The sentence has other tantalizing terms, it is
true. For instance, the writer seems to imply
that the Department might employ the young
wife as male assistant, and he Intimates that he
sees nothing undesirable in that; the undesir-
Rbleness only attaches to her as a female assistant,
iurther, it is only the young wife of the
head teacher that the writer assails. Does
he leave us to conjecture that a head teacher
has a choice of wives, and can put one to this,
and another to that, just as the regulations pre-
scribe? But although these points are fraught
with interest, the undying charm of the sentence
lies in that “ obvious reason.” Is it the same
obvious reason” that puzzled Jack M’Kinney
when the Conference of Victorian Boards of Ad-
vice was sitting ? If so, there should have been
some explanatory note appended to the remark,
such as "i.e. Jack’s reason, vide C.B.A. cap. Fools.
sec. Drunk.” But if that be what the writer means,
then we feel that it is the most insidious thrust at
the grace and sweetness of the pedagogic life
which civilization has witnessed. It practically
forbids a schoolmaster to marry a young wife
We know that
“ When a man’s the sport of heaven
To keep a school the fellow’s driven;”
but that he must marry an old wife into the bar-
gain, is tyranny supreme. We hope the school-
masters of Australia will fight the matter out to
the bitter end.
For real fun—the fun that wells over un-
consciously, like M. Jourdain's prose—you must go
to the religious papers. It appears that during
1883 over £300,000 conscience or restitution money
was paid through the confessional to the English
Chancellor of the Exchequer. Concerning this the
ExPBESsasks: “ What says Exeter Hall ?’“ We are
not (unhappily) in Exeter Hall's confidence, and so
cannot say. But, if the question had been asked
us Instead of the “ Hall,” this is what we would
would say: “Our opinion is that the people who
paid in those three tons of gold were not only
thieves, but cowardly thieves. They first robbed
the public, and, having carefully Invested the
plunder, they lived at their ease, looking occa-
sionally down with contempt on their struggling
fellows who either had no chance of stealing er
didn’t embrace it. Theu when advancing years
warned them that pallida mors might any night
look in through their bedroom window and beckon
them to follow him. their hearts failed them and
a share of the money, while other institutions, of
a distinctively Christian character, are shut out
from participation. One gentle can has been de-
ploring the fact that “ Christianity ot the present
day is of such a general character as to be without
pith or point.” Strange to say, there are other
pepple who think that some of the “pith and
point riiight be dispensed with, it the article
itself—even in the rough—could come into more
general use; however, we quite sympathise with
the ideas of these gentlemen—no indistinct Chris-
tian ought to have his sufferings alleviated at all
as tar as that’s concerned. Oh! for the good old
days of the “ stake,” when a man had to choose
between being distinct or extinct.
INDISTINCTIVE CHRISTIANITY.
Now, drop just one tear for unhappy humanity,
Our state, for the moment, is shocking, Indeed—
For, muddled and mixed as regards Christianity,
We pay not a proper attention to “ creed.”
'Tis sad to reflect that the “ church-goer’s ’ charity
Should help to relieve from the torments of hell
A suffering “dissenter," who spite the disparity
Betwixt the two creeds ) too often, gets w«t.
the priest was called in to put things straight.
Restitution” was the countersign, and so the
original sum of which the State had been de-
frauded was paid in so that the clergyman ooul 1
promise forgiveness. Thus by a little engineering
they managed to secure comfort both in thli
world and the next. None of the comfort that
resulted from the early robbery was “ restituted.”
Having saved their bacon they thought It time to
secure their souls. If future punishment is real
and not mythical those people will occupy a seat
on the stove.
This is a dunorainational item from an
American print:-“ The Rev. Mr. Thomas Smith
is circuit riding in the western district-that D
when he is sober enough to ride, or isn’t getting
married. At latest accounts he had hooked on to
nis seventh spouse, with more to hear from.”
The clergymen of certain Melb. ohurehe-*
are squabbling with the “ Hospital Sunday ” Com-
mittee over the distribution of the fund. Thee
are tr mbied in spirit because eleven charities of a
non-denominational character are entitled to claim
The Blow-Fly.
A PARLIAMENTARY STUDY IN ENTOMOLOGY .


SUNDRY SHOWS.
to say, swallow a ham-bone without any such
phenomenon occurring. And this reminds us (we
don’t know why it should) that a friend of ours
has been “getting it” for “gagging” from the
Archts, which advises him not to grin through a
horse-collar. And now you get it. Miss Pomeroy
and company open at Christchurch on the first of
November, Louise doesn't seem, it appears, in
much of a hurry to get back to Marker, and
America is not panting. We shouldn’t, on the
whole, be surprised to find Louise in Sydney taking
leave of us again. What’s that Romeo says?
“ Parting IS such sweet sorrow;” but she knows all
about it, bless you! And we, ever in search of
theatrical knowledge, have just discovered that
Rignold goes to England after the run of “The
Romany Rye ” in Adelaide, to bring out now
pieces and new talent. Garner went home for
that, too, and brought out—himself.
Writes our Melbourne correspondent;—
“ The Princess’s is still the resort of large crowds
nightly. Miss Melville knows how to whet the
appetite with judicious variety ‘ La Belle Helene ’
is the attraction now. It is six or seven years since
Melbourne saw her in the character of the classic
beauty, and it is comforting to find that the
interval has led to a higher level. Orestes, Achilles,
Parthenlus, and Bacchus wore Impersonated by the
usual bevy of ladles, and one of the great attrac-
tions of the company is that it contains so many
dazzling countenances. Mr. C. Harding was intro-
duced for the first time as a tenor, and a very
favourable impression he made, His voice is
clearer and freer than Mr. Walshe’s, and his manner
less constrained. Mr. Farley was a surprising
Agamemnon.”
♦ * * #
“ The Prodigal Son ” has possession of the
Bijou. Signor Majeronl must not have a high
opinion of the literary ability of the time, when he
affects to regard this drama as a masterpiece. This
was its first representation on “ any English stage,”
as the announcement ran; and, after witnessing it,
the query naturally was— What necessity was there
for representing it at all ? The talents of the
Majeronls deserved better. Gilbert! is a maudlin,
whimsical, introspective poetical failure, who
doesn’t arry, and is sorry for it, and afterwards
marries, and is sorry for it, and leaves his wife, and
is sorry for it, and afterwards hears her sing
divinely on the stage, and, for a wonder, likes it.
Then Francesca’s turn comes. She’s sorry for his
liking her now, and she scouts him. Then he goes
Theatre Royal—" Tambour Major.” p. 8
Opera House—“ Love or Money ” lb.
Notwithstanding that the New York
critics have “jumped on” Oscar Wilde's play,
“Vera,” recently produced at the Gnion Square,
the piece Is an Undoubted success, and the plot ex-
ceedingly dramatic. There are two points which
are exceedingly good. One is, that on the surprise
of the Nihilists in a coal-cellar, the chief of them
is discovered to be the Czarovltch, and the officer in
command of the troops at once “jacks up ”on the
arrangement, and allows the conspirators to es-
cape. Later on, when a hole has been drilled
through the Czar, and tho Czarovltch is reigning,
Vera Is told off to settle him, though he had for-
merly been her lover. The end is, she kills herself
in his arms, the band play a “hurry,” and down
comes the rag. Miss Marie Prescott plays Vera,
hnd hits, it seems, bought the piece. In this part,
it seems MiSs P.’S well-khown giddy propensities
find a vent, especially in het poses in the last act.
‘The Flaneur” says:—“Her dress had no under-
skirts, apparently—1 must come down to the bold
facts—and clung to her with a tenacity that was a
revelation in Itself. She threw herself upon the
lounge with her face towards the audience, and
leaned over backwards, with both arms stretched
out over her head, and nothing of her face visible
but the under part of her chin. . . . Then Miss
Prescott wound her arms around the recumbent
Morrison [the Czar], and imprinted an undying
kiss on his lips. Every god in the gallery kissed
with her. and there was a noise like a locomotive
blowing off steam. I could not help wondering
whore Pertzel, the grocer, was at this particular
juncture.” This is the sort of criticism that Oscar
Wilde has had to contend with all the time, but his
play is a go all the same. Marie Prescott, it seems,
must be an actress of no small merit, since she was
selected by Salvlni to support him during his
American tour, and it was she, it will be remem-
bered, who recovered 3000 dollars from the
American News Company for a pitiful libel
written by a poor creature named Harvier,
whom Miss Prescott had been—notwithstanding
the existence of “ Pertzell, the grocer,”—support-
ing off the stage. The New York Press don’t
abuse “ Vera” so much as they do Oscar Wilde, in
the same manner that they didn’t abuse Mrs. Lang-
try’s acting so much as they did that lady herself.
It was nothing to read in any N.Y. paper that
“the Prince's cast-off mash would show her low
comedy knees to-night again as Rosalind;” and
open allusion was frequently made to Gebhardt’s
friendship with the actress, in which it was sought
to prove the existence of relations between them,
which could not, under any combination of cir-
cumstances, have existed. The continual falling
of water, however, will wear away a stone. The
rumour that Morris Greenwall has offered the
Langtry £500 a week for seven performances in
Australia, and the passage and expenses of live
people, is, of course, bosh. To close with a little
paradox, no Australian city but Sydney could
stand it, and Sydney couldn’t stand it.
* * « *
It is good to know that the Montague-
Turners, with Gordon and Ralnor. have been
doing “ Marltana ” to big biz. at the Adelaide
Academy of Music—a big nail over a tailor’s shop,
which has undergone nearly as many vicissitudes
as a certain magnificent building in this city. And,
talking of Adelaide, the irrepressible James Rain-
ford, whose letter is headed by an eccentric crest,
writes that he takes possession, with George
Darrell, of the Theatre Royal, Adelaide, on Nov. 3,
at which theatre they will play George Cop pin (his
farewell tour I ID and Jennie Lee; then the “Sunny
South,” after which James will come to Sydney
and stage the pieces for the Opera House. Then
the Matthews Family give their chaste entertain-
ment at Burrowa; nor most certainly does James’s
painful reticence upon the question of “setting
'em up ” militate against the appearance of Walter
Reynolds in an entirely new and original drama
from his own pen, entitled “To-day,” a play which
is described (possibly by Walter himself) as being
“sensational, spectacular, and highlv romantic.
We are not sure that there is an odour of “ Vanity
Fair” about this announcement, though there
maybe an odour of vanity. Though Walter was
ever modest 1 And you may have heard that
Maocabo is in 'Frisco; but the papers there don’t
think it is quite Ameiican enough. Oh, and Henry
Ward Beecher has been showing at ’Frisco, too,
and this is the delicate way in which he is welcomed
bv the Newsletter: “ This irrepressible charlatan
and mialeader of ignorant men and silly women is
again airing his platitudes with undlrainlshed im-
pudence In our midst.” What would it cost to say
that here about (say) ? Humph I
* * * *
There is a curious whisper going around
about the Langtrj. That is that Mr. Gebhardt
wasnever a fa\ ourite at all, but that Mr. F. Cooper,
her leading man. owns a little corner in the
lady’s heart. He took her recently to see “Free-
dom,” at Old Drury, and it is said that “ the light
has faded from her eyes, and she is thin and care-
worn.” Yes, and it seems that Garner has really
got the “ Silver King,” and that Tltheradge is to
play the hero. By the way, the authors, Jones and
Herman, have quarrelled, so they say, and when
they sit in the theatre of a night they tick off the
various points on their fingers with a loud “ Mine 1”
scowling at each other the while. The piece, it is
well known, was produced at the London Prin-
cess’s by Wilson Barrett, the brother of Laur-
ence Barrett, the tragedian, who has just
married one of his daughters to a German
Baron. And inspired by this, “Consul Potter, at
Crefeld, so we read, has gathered the facts con-
cerning thirty-one marriages between American
girls and titled Germans, all of which have resulted
in separation, abandonment, divorce, or disaster of
some kind.” Cheerful, isn't it ? Oh. and James
Mortimer, ex-editor of London Figaro, has pro-
duced a new version of “Bleak House” at the
Grand, London, called “ Move on.” It is stated to
hold its own with other adaptations of the same
great work that have gone before. If it only
holds its own with J. P. Burnett. Esq.'s adapta-
tion we shall manage to linger on, if it don't reach
thus far. # #
Our old friend L’Estrange appears to have
turned up at Secunderabad (of all places), and has
given a lot of public and private performances.
As he always stands a show of getting made a
butcher s shop of, he is exceedingly popular with
the Nabobs and Rajahs. For our part, Henri’s show
is too thrilling for us—in fact, if we were in, in-
deed, we should Rajah not see It. But what we
yearn to behold is Helen Vivian’s pourtrayal of
Hortense and Lady D., which the Abmidalk
Chronicle man says brought a lump Into bf§
fchroat. And yet this same man could, we venture
about, killing everybody; and Anally, In highly
Improbable language at a highly improbable time,
they shake hands and are said to be happy. Joe
Brown made his first appearance in a minor
character, and, as he is personally well liked, he
won applause.
» • - •
Eh, blent Qxioi dc nouveaut Not much.
It seems the people like the Tambour-Major as
now done. They go to the theatre and pay to see
it, in shoals. This being the case, the question,
doubtless, now arises in the Mnsgrovlan mind,
“ Why engage better singers If this mob draws the
crowd ? So we suppose -vr shan’t got any better
singers. The reason, we take it, that “ Tambour
Major” is such a biggo is, that the girls in it draw
the “ Mashers.” and the girls who are not in it go
to see the Mashers whom the girls who are in it
have drawn. We are very glad, of course, at the
good fortune the Royal people are enjoying, be-
cause we are g'ad to see anyone enjoy good
fortune. But what intrigues us is, supposing the
attraction to lie In the Tambour-Major
houris, which are the fasclna ors that are
responsible for the creation of the boom? « an
it be the officers ? If so, let novelty be conjured
up ne more If Una Brooke can draw the town,
and Grace Henriques act as a magnet to mashers,
give the public, in future, a museum with a mer-
maid in a bottle, a pink-eyed lady who plays the
harp with her toes, and a wild untamed Mexican
who performs on the axcabala in public, and
developes a Carkasian brogue when in the seclu-
sion of his family circle, and crowded houses will
be the result. It is announced as we write this
that “Tambour Major” will be withdrawn on
Saturday to make way for “ Les Cloches.” But, of
course, it may not be, after all. “ O wing to,” etc.
Another week, perhaps.
♦ ♦ ♦
The biggest card in the present managerial
pack is the “ Mascotte,” in which Harwood is to
come over d ce-we mean, it is said, to resume his
part of the Duke with the two half-crowns. The
performance—andHeav—well Satan, for achange,
knows he does his best 1—of Mr. Vernon sets forth,
in a singularly prominent manner, what a big gun
H. R. is, in spite of all his atrocious gags, his
burlesque-book gleanings, and his heart-breaking
locals. There is a rumour—a silly one, of course—
that a certain very great card iq the company—but
Jq N.8.W, we mustn t
All the pantomime arrangements are com-
pleted d ce according to what the management
say. “ Aladdin ” of last year Is to be the show this
year In Melbourne; and u Jack and the Bean Stalk,”
played last year at the Melbourne Royal, Is to be
put on our little plate this Christmas. “ Jack ”
was originally localized by Joseph Brown, Bsq.,
who Is now secretary to Signor Majeronl, and the
Southern city yet rings with Joe’s sparkling witti-
cisms. We hear that the localization here will be
performed by E. Lewis Scott, Bsq., Alderman,
and a special feature will be made by Lewis
of an original song —the motif derived from
his aldermanlc experiences, entitled “The Cat
under the Culvert.” “Jack” Is to have lots of
good scenery; and rumour hath It that that airy
young syrup—we mean, seraph—Maggie Oliver, is
to play the star part. We hail this whisper with a
joy which Is exceeding. We like, In a pantomime,
to see the “boy” taken by an actress who Is
visible to the naked eye. We are tired of the
ethereal, and long for the substantial. It Is now
six years since Miss Margaret trod on our toe. And
now we are just beginning to long for the sub-
stantial again. Just beginning!
• « » *
Wybert Reeve is doing at the Opera House what
is wholesome and healthful, and consequently what
is to be commended. You will see, at once, that
this la. a sly little parody on the style of the great
little doctor—who, by the way, Is ,r Theophrastus ”
in the Echo no more. Wybert produces “ Hurri-
canes,” an American comedy, on Saturday. We
are glad he Is producing “Hurricanes,” but we
are sorry it is “an American comedy.”
* ♦ ♦ »
Be still our beating, our throbbing, our
surging, our leaping hearts. Georgie Smithson,
who. It appears, Is the “ Female Maccabe ” (what
will Mrs. Fred., we wonder, say to this?), is to
coruscate at the Masonic Hall on Saturday night,
when we shall be found to be particularly on the
spot. Georgie Is very clever. She has a very nice
hub. (Mr. Holloway) who assists her, and a delicious
dawg. We see that the manager of this show is
Mr. Frame. We hope to see this frame gilded
before its departure.
* ♦ • •
D’Orsay Ogden (the imperishable) recently
gave the “ Woman of the People,” at Wagga, and
announced that he would present there during the
race week “Bret Harte’s ‘Man of the Iron (II)
Bar,’ and ‘The Stratglst’ (tie). Also Wilkie
Collins’ ‘ Corsican Brothers.’ ” This last should
be an attraction indeed. Wo suppose Wilkie
Collins has written a version expressly for Mr.
Ogden, by way of improving on the hither-
to well-known version whion Dion Bouoicault
originally wrote for Peohter. Lucky D'Orsay; but
not so lucky as Minnie Conway, who has just got a
divorce from Levy, the cornet-player, Minnie
having discovered that the musical L. was so much
married already that she was only “ one of a mob.”
She was awfully fond of Levy, too, and can now
say—as do the converted of the Salvationists —
“ Once my life was a little L.: now it is ” We
don’t know what it is now. Oh, and there’s a row
because Sothern’s grave is neglected. And little
Lyt. writes to the Referee, saying that it’s not
him, but his sister, Mrs. Cowan, who promised to
look after it. Mrs. C., in reply, considers that
Lytton, in his statement, Is a Cowan too far; and
thus the matter stands, while the mangel-wurtaells
flourish upon Lord Dundreary’s tomb. And this,
of course, lands us right on to the Intelligence
that ‘‘Dr. Lynn, the celebrated illusionist,” is
showing at Bundaberg, the Star whereof states
(without a thought to its ultimate salvation) that
“ what ho does he does better than Haselmayer—
and says less about it.” How many inches ?
* * * *
And if anybody says we haven’t been to
the Waxworks in George-sireet, we will (this is
Shakespeare) “ Spit on their doublets and call them
horse.” Went there, rather. And how did we
revel in the society of dear old Judas, and Ned
Kelly, and Florence Nightingale ; not to mention
the true life-like portrait-models ot St. Peter (hold-
ing, as we are assured the original key) who is
apparently in earnest converse with John, M.L.C. —
feebly disguised as F dstaff. We advise everybody
to go to this show. There is nothing about it that
could offend the modesty of a Sunday School
Eionicker —unless John did. And why should
e? We asked the proprietor what time the
figures were fed, but tie returned (as it appeared
to us), an evasive reply. And how has Arthur
Vivian’s crowd “got’ 7 Tamworth with the
“Woman (poor woman) of the People I ” And
how—this is next in importance I—has Barry
Sullivan got the provincial public of England.
Here, by-the-way Is an anecdote of Barry—“I
notice, Mr. Sullivan,” said a friend to him one
evening, “ that your son is always standing at the
door of the theatre In which you are playing.
Why is this ? ” To which naively replied the actor.
“ It is to see that nobody pays twice.” Funny, if
he said it, which, of course, he never did.
It seems that the report that the N.Y.
Mirror was dead is not correct, since the mid-
summer number of that Journal is just to hand,
with a story of Selina Dolaro, and a picture of
a girl walking down an avenue of beeches and
thinking of pie. The Mirror tells us that the
Murkans are shortly to have a “ kullud ” lady who
is to impersonate Juliet, &o. This is a novelty.
The last “kullud ” performer we remember seeing
was Morton Tavares, who has, apparently, faded.
Morton fancied himself in “ Richelieu ” and lago,
but, somehow, the public didn’t. We remember
when he made his “deboo” at Her Majesty’s,
London. He was then fresh from Jamaica. Ho
appeared in “Othello,” and, after the perform-
ance, B. T. Smith, the manager, muttered
several things. The last we heard of Morton
was that he was at the Cape of Good Hope.
And here we get it straight (to vary the news) that
“ ’Arts ’Appy ’ Ours ” (who really ought
to give us a testimonial) have been at
Gundagal and have apparently knocked the vener-
able Biworthy of that town: and, what is more
thrilling still, is that the Helen Vivian Dramatic
Company has climbed up as far as Tamworth, and
are doing such good biz. that Arthur is now in a
position to “ set ’em up ” to an extent which he in
former days would have looked upon as a wild
and delirious vision. The company, too, clutch
the luxury daily of their “little eight.” And wait I
You’ve all heard of Cottrelly, of course. “Oh,
certainly.” Man or a woman? “Don’t know.’’
Bowled out, as usual, dear public. Well, she’s
dead; but was a splendid actress and a lovely
woman, though she couldn’t sing for cracked
camp-ovens. “What do you think of me?”
said she one day to Tamberllk, the tenor.
“ Ah, Madame,” he replied, “ You sing ver’
vel’ here,” pointing to her legs. “You sing
beautiful here,” pointing to her softly-rounded
bust. “Splanded here,” designating her figure,
“But not a little bit here,” putting his finger in
his mouth. Which item suggests that Professor
Payne is at Charters Towers, doing the tln-cup-
and-marble trick. He is assisted by Mr. and
Madame St. Vincent (whoever they are); and the
“ Stray Leaves” have been giving CampbeUtown a
Sleasant turn. Yes; and really it seems a mania,
oasn’t it ? Miss L. Grafton, to whom the late Mr.
Gretton, of sporting celebrity, left £6000 a year (I)
is going on the stage. Her real name, by the way,
is Radmall, and her brother (who appears to be a
bit of a plunger) recently won 18,000 fouls in one
bet at the Deauville races. And when we tell you
that Dearin’s Minstrels are at Hamilton (Vic.), and
that Bernhardt has been resting at Havre, you will
be obliged to us. Heywood and Lawler’s crowd
are at wagga. “ Birdie, come to marmer; but
don’t tell popper.” Booh?
* * * *
Perhaps one of the merriest theatrical
notices that has ever appeared in any paper,
gleams in a recent Monday’s Herald, and from
its finished style and its delicate diction, it is de-
serving of more than a passing notice—and, it is
going to get it. The dialogue, the young party
who wrote it, says, contains “ melodramatic senti-
ment” which is “universally shared and emi-
nently human.” Without stopping to ask (since
the man who drives the engine is getting im-
patient) how anything can be “universally shared”
or how “melodramatic sentiment” can be “emi-
nently human,” we notice that the writer con-
siders “Offenbach at his best” in “Tambour-
Major.” Now, we should like to ask this young
party if he has ever heard of aux Eufers,'
La Belle Helene,” “ La Grande Duchesse,” “ Le
Roi Garotte,” and “Barbe Bleue?”—in which
pieces lovely melodies succeed one another with a
rapidity that is delicious as it is marvellous. Pass-
ing on from this, we are told that “ Maggie Stew-
art made a “ personable ” (sic) Duchess Della
Volta, (what does that mean ?) As Gdolet,
(listen) Miss Fanny Liddiard (we quote), “ to the
surprise of a great many people, made almost as
great a success in it as Miss Stewart had done, and
formed a most efficient substitute for that lady.”
We make no comment (beyond what our italics
suggest), of course—all we want to do is to make
people go and see the piece. Then Mr. Howard
Vernon’s acting, as the Duke, was “unforced and
very telling ” (sic), and his singing was “ excellent."
Good-day 1
* * * *
The Brisbane “ footlight ” poetry is exceed-
ingly droll. Here is a little sample of it
“ Such was then his greasy whoosh,
‘ ’Spose want 'urn, you must fetohy;
Mine been stay 'urn long ’um bush,
You must come there and catch Ketohy.’ ”
There is a ring in this, somehow, which attracts one.
We suppose the man who writes this, halves, a long
distance from the metropolis, a cave with the Bun-
yip. There alone would he be —but, perhaps they
like this kind of poetry in Brisbane. We do I And
what we like almost as much is DeoenoskTs Circus,
which is at Toowoomba. There are no horses in
this show, it seems, but Madame D. and the Prof,
conjure, and subsequently give away a £5-note.
The menagerie, however, enables the rustics to see
which way the oat jumps. Just fancy, tod! Nellie
Lemar, the Music Hall singer to whom Lord Bun-
combe is to be married, is stated to have “first
attracted H.R.H.’s attention through her singing
of ‘ Go and inform your father.’ ” Hem I When
Lord D. went to inform his father, the Earl of
Feversham, it is said that but the secret is now
between Lord D. and the Earl’s boot.
* * * *
The Dampier Combination has struck it
at Newcastle, and the “Black Flag ’’ has proved a
big draw. We are glad of this, for we don’t mind
telling you that the impresario of this “ push ” is
a brother-pressman from the far North. We have
never been able either to spell or to pronounce
his name, but he is a charming fellow, and uses
nothing under three-and-sixpenny halr-oll. The
company is very strong, indeed—by far, in fact,
the biggest “ consolidation ” (this is the new word)
that has ever started overland to Brisbane. We.
not being prophets, can’t say that the company
will actually reach Brisbane; but our opinion is
that it will get a good way along. We shan’t begin
to be uneasy about the crowd, though, until Lily
telegraphs to ma’ lor her thick boots, from Glen
Innes. And, by the bye, a Chicago manager has
issued the following notice:—“The employes of
the house are not allowed to take part in applaud-
ing the performance.” This wouldn't be a bad
line to lay down here. It may be an intellectual
spectacle to see lackeys grinding sparks out of
tnelr palms at concerted times, but it 1s hardly
entertaining.
* « * *
Perhaps the merriest place in the world is
an undertaker’s shop when there are plenty of
orders in, and the mallets are beating a skeleton
tattoo on the coffin-lids, and making the beer-jugs
on the bench to danoe again. Whenever we feel
dull or depressed we walk into a funeral ware-
house—we are on familiar terms with all the lead-
ing undertakers, who, by the way, are as genial a
set < f men as ever we met—and look at the little
pewter angels on the coffin-plates, and the white
metal stars, and rosettes, and fllagreed frippery
which vanity clings to even in death, till we grow
cheerful once more. You wonder what this load*
to? Well, there is no reason why you should t
know. It leads to the Protestant Hail, where Dr.
Simms is now lecturing.
• * •
We went there the other night. The
house was crowded. Dr. Simms is an American,
and the whole American colony here rallied up i®
the Hall and gave their countryman a send-off.
curious place that ancient haunt of holy hate “
now. The walls are covered with marrow-freezing
pictures of all kinds of moral and physical mon*
sters, murderers, vampires, horned men, hanj-
faced women, calf-headed children, ana ew
other kind of nightmare calculated to make
brain turn and the blood run cold. For a
indeed, it seemed to us that we were in the poriru
gallery of the Orange Lodge. Bu tthls haliuein
turn passed away and left us staring »
a broad-shouldered, bald-headed, and deciaea J
impressive-looking gentleman who was
loudly on the platform. This was Dr. Simm •
Wo said he was talking, advisedly. There ar«
some men who deem it necessary, when tney


Peapes and Shaw, having got a renewal of
lease for a lengthy period, have entered upon
Wtensive alterations. When finish .d, the house
will be equal to anything in the colonies.
The two men Bradfield a d Herbert, who
removed the beacons at Clarence Head, just be-
the Ajax, with the Government aboard, en-
ured, have been sentenced to seven years’ roads,
■ihe evidence didn’t convict them of design to
wreck—else there’d have been 'a double hanging
°n the Clarence to chronicle.
Jells’ “Rough on Corks.’’— Ask for Wells’
uough on Corns.” Quick relief, complete, per-
«anent cure. Corns, warts, bunions. Moses,
*•85 & Ce,, Sydney, General Agent*.
addressing an audience, to use a stilted style which
they would not dream of using In common con-
versation. Dr. Simms is not. one of these. He
talks naturally, and much In the manner of a good
raconteur. From his strong American accent we
should at first have Judged him to be an Irishman,
if we did not know otherwise. When we arrived
he was talking about features. We forget whether
he said that large ears denoted musical ability,
but we think he must have, as we folded our own
over our face just then to hide our blushes. If he
did say so, the audience of Monday night was
the most musical crowd we have ever seen.
There were some there who had ears large
enough to work a windmill, and others who
would only have to stand in the stern of a
boat and spread their flappers before a good
wind to make as many knots anffiour as they chose.
Dr. Simms judges of character from the features,
walk, gestures, and so forth. He is a man of much
natural cleverness who has observed largely and
thought for himself. Considerable credit is there-
fore due to him for having thought so well.
* * •
But —there is a but—like most men who
have begun at the beginning, he Is apt occasionally
to forget that his discoveries are not all new ;
that in fact some of them were old ages ago.
This is the penalty of insufficient culture. Fancy
for instance his referring to a friend of
his—a Dr. Canes or something like that,
as one of the greatest thinkers of the age. Who
has heard of Dr. Canes ? And what has Herbert
Spencer done to Dr. Simms that he should not say
a good word for him ? And what are the “ ancient
arts”?—Not sculpture, Architecture, painting, or
poetry, for certain. These are arts pure and simple,
and unqualiflable as arts by an adjective, except
when taken technically—as say, ancient art, mean-
ing the relics and style of the ancients, but not
surely the age of the art. As Dr. Simms used the
expression, he evidently understood the arts he
spoke of to be peculiar to ancient times. He
might have therefore called them the lost arts.
But none of those before mentioned are lost arts.
Sculpture is not a lest art. Look at the Post-
office carvings. Architecture is not a lost art.
Look at the Sydney Town Hall foundations,
and ask Mr. David M'Beath. Painting is not
a lost art. Mr. Combes, C.M.G., can tell you that.
And as for poetry, who will say that is a lost art
while the swan-song of Sladen still sounds in our
ears? What, then, does Dr. Simms mean by lost
arts? Evidently, honesty and Venetian glass-
blowing. As we said before, Dr. Simms owes more
to his own observation than to the teachings of
others. This makes him very frequently explain
self-evident things with an elaboration that is
hardly complimentary to his audience. That an
old man shows strong signs of being a long-liver
is not so startling a discovery as to need much
repetition. And the information that Edinburgh
is the northern Athens comes rather late in the
day to awaken the enthusiasm that it might nave
produced a century or two ago.
• • •
Nevertheless, Dr. Simms is instructive and
amusing, and has many really new things to say.
The intelligence that Charles the First never
laughed after he became King of England excited
the audience considerably. The enthusiasm would
have gone beyond bounds if Dr. Simms had added
to this the statement that Charles never chewed
tobacco after his head was cut off. There was
considerable applause, too, when the lecturer ad-
vised a poor old man who came tottering up on
the stage that he should go in for sport and take
more exercise. Then the ghosts walked.
v * *
We mean the ladies. After these the men.
Dr. Simms, before asking them to come out, had
been giving examples of different kinds of walk—
the walk showing energy and determination was
one. Consequently, every man that came out
held his head erect and pounded the floor with his
heels till it trembled again. Consequently nearly
every man was conspicuous for energy and deter-
mination of character. There were more men of
iron will in that audience, according to his crite-
rion, than in a convict prison. After this a crowd
went up on the stage. Ladles first. The Doctor
—gay old dog I—discovered at once that the
prettiest looking girl of the lot was the most
attractive. Bath&rshim! Then the men. They
looked as if they had walked down from the walls.
There were individuals there who looked capable
of any crime. One man when asked what he did
for a living would not reply. We believe he was
the hangman. Then there was another tail grey-
haired man, with a fixed eye. Dr. Simms tom the
audience that one of these days that man would do
something and get rich. We thought so too—break
a bank. Also there was one who was told he would
be better at sixty than earlier in life. We daresay.
We know numbers of whom we could say even
more than that—they would be better after they
were dead than earlier in life. And this is all we
have to say now, because we are in a hurry. There
is a oat-flgnt going on in the yard.
* # *
Saturday saw the last of Hiscocks and his
men. Taken all round they were the best troupe
we have had for years. From the mirth-pro-
voking tomfoolery of Bent to the fine voices of
Braham and Amery there was a good level of
excellence maintained.. Nick Peuillade's fiddling
was a feature in itself. Of course a good deal of it
was “faking,” but the faking was pleasant.
Whenever he got a chance of flying off into en-
temporised variations he flew off to the great
deilght of the audience who relished any musical
eccentricity provided it was well done The
“interlocutor” had our sympathy from the be-
ginning. Night after night we admired the
healthy mental poise that enabled him to put up
with the cutting personal badinage of Messrs.
Bent and Lawton. It was more sootning than one
of Mrs. Hampson’s sermons to observe the
good-natured equanimity which he opposed to the
cruel cross-fire of raillery to which “ bones ” and
“tambourine” subjected him. Pointed allusions
to his eyes, hair, habits, teeth, the cut of his
clothes, bis domestic unhappiness, and his gaol
experiences were received wuh the same easy
good-humour. When, under severe cross-exami-
nation by the vulgar corner-men, ho admitted that
the Great Feuillade received £20 a week, only, we
could observe a ghastly twinge play about the
corners of “Nick’s” seductive mouth, and
pass upwards until it was lost iu his abundant
hair. From long association, a shepherd gets
to resemble his sheep, a husband his wife.
From the necessity of suiting the look and
action to the word, Beaumont Bead is begin-
ning to look as cut-up or broken-down as Dismal
Jimmy. We would suggest that he change places
with Bent for a bit, and turn his attention to
comic singing while on his country tour, so as to
get rid of the painfully sentimental appearance he
>s beginning to assume. We would also suggest to
Mr. Hiscocks that, while leaving unchanged the
musical portion of his show—which is really admir-
able—he employ some smart man (say from the
B.T.) to supply original jokes and a few short
characteristic sketches, in which the clever mem-
bers of his company might get a chance of dis-
playing talents that are now. in a great measure,
obscured. It is almost time that the present negro
eccentricities ” —depending for success, as they
oo, on a long stocking, a battered umbrella, a
damaged carpet bag, or a spoonful of flour blown
m the artist’s face—should give place to a sparkling
dialogue, or a well-conceived plot. Gag, bladder,
hour and waddy are well enough in their way, but
—verb. sap.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“MTaggart”: You are mistaken. No
copy of The Bulletin was placed under the
foundation-stone of the T.M.C.A. Hall on Satur-
day. Mrs. Hampson was anxious to put one there,
but the opposition was too groat. The Bulletin
was not buried because it wasn't dead—because, In
fact, it was felt that if it were placed in the s aled
bottle with the others, it would at once reduce
them to pulp, and proceed to emerge from the tomb
— “4^ ric °la” ; Thanks. Will notice In due course.
• Jitror Poeticus ” : No, thanks “Jack” :
Glad to hear from you again.... “E. A. Jones”:
Style good. Perspicuity and simplicity are the
real tests. They generally accompany clearness of
The French of Voltaire, and the English
of Buckle, are perfect. In the whole of the
latter there is not an Involved sentence. His
History of Civilisation ” — apart from the
extraordinary research displayed In it —surpasses
in our estimation, most or Macaulay’s essays for
felicity of style.... “The Illustrated’’; The fellow
who drew those scenes must have studied equine
mmtomy from his landlady’s clothes horse
Klppax-street”: Yourstyle is so remarkable that
few people will ever be able to “get over ” It.. .
Emily”; Rather lively. Letter at G.P.O., Sydney.
Anglo-Indian”: No, a tilfln borer is not a
fellow who always pops In lunch-time in hopes of
an Invite. That’s what It Isn’t. M'Elhone, maybe,
will explain to you what It is.... “ Bob ": Yes, you
are right. In tfiis democratic community It’s very
hard to “draw the line.”....“B.W.S.”: Yes, the
Vice-Chancellor of a University should not only
be a University graduate, but a well-mannered
gentleman. Judge Wlndeyer s appointment de-
lights everybody....“Bacchus”: In other words,
you want to make our paper a medium for pro-
posing to your girl. No, sir; do It yourself—as we
have done eighty times. Alasl....“ J.B.”: Verses
no good to us ...“Pert Eighteen”: Yes. brushing
will remove freckles. It must be carefully done
with a moustache. If it doesn’t remove them, it
will, at any rate, help you to forget them for a
while....“Octopus”: Too late last week; too old
this....“Come Quick”: Quite unsuit<ble; would
fill three columns, and not worth three lines...
‘Wanderer”: Decline your offer, as you oculd
scarcely afford us much that Is new.
Messrs. Watson and Crane's Steam Brass
and Electro-Plate Works.
Few establishment in the colony exhibit the
advance in manufacturing industry which is
shown at the B eotro-plating and Brass Works of
Messrs. Watson and Crane, 334 and 336 Pltt-streot,
near Liver pool-street, Sydney. The history of the
frowth of this industry is the history of the intro-
uotlon of a superior class of work which pre-
viously had been d me out of the colony, and the
introduction likewise of the latest improved
appliances and skilled mechanical labour. A few
months ago the firm considerably enlarged their
premises, giving the works a good street frontage,
and at the rear greatly Increased space for WO'k,
storage and plating rooms This establishment or
course, cannot be compared in size with the im-
mense factories of the old country; but all the
appli inces both in the electro and nickel plating
department, and in the brass foundry and finish-
ing shop, and in the acqueriug branch, are quite
equal to anything In the Home factories ; and
there are two steam engines at work., and steam is
used for all purposes where it is possible to apply it,
both for work and for bearing purposes. By the
above means, electro and nickel plating can e done
hero that for quality aud price will compare very
favourably with the best Imported; and recently
this establishment plated all the cabin and saloon fit-
tings of the R.M.8.S. Australia and Zealandla; and
the plated shop-front of Messrs. Paling and Co.,
George-street, waj also entirely manufactured
We harea profound respeotfor the natural
abilities of Mr. Joseph Henry Topham, acting-
accountant for the South Australian Survey De-
partment. When charged by his superior officer
with embezzling moneys, he coolly remarked that
there were I.O.U's in the cash safe for the total
amount! This Mioawber-like way of viewing the
situation not being accepted by either the Survey
Department or the City Police Bench, Mr. Topham
is now awaiting what a jury of his countrymen
may have to say on the matter.
Sir Alfred Stephen gnashing his gums (like
Giant Pope in 44 Pilgrim’s Progress *) against the
Fourth Estate, and raking up ancientest Tory pre-
cedents to support his vituperative allegations,
was a clear case of Malice in Blunderland. He
was also like Giant Goliath, Inasmuch as all his
laboured pile of Bldonisms were neatly knooaed
Into a cocked nat by the pebble which uarley
slung at him—a well-chosen pebble, doosldly
well-aimed. When Darley said that his hon.
friend had mixed up two distinct matters, his hon.
friend's face was a picture. What 1 Sir Alfred,
the omniscient, mix up two distinct matters I Sir
Alfred the omnisoent not know what he was talk-
ing about. That’s what his face expressed—an ex-
pression that was a sort of a cross between the
look of Cmsar as he murmured Et tu Brute, and
that of Honeythunder the Philanthropist when
Mr. Cnsparkle told that worthy that platform
rnanoeuvres violated equally the Justice which
should belong to Christians and the restraints that
should belong to gentlemen In one sense
Stephen’s deliverance was perfect: as a com-
pendium of all that should not have been said on
the question It left nothing to be desired.
and plated here., (The re-plating of spoons and
forks, and every description of electroplated ware,
is done In the best stylo, at reasonable prices; and
nickel-plating, as applied to ship and bath fittings,
name plates, fire-irons, surgical and dental instru-
ments, shop fronts and fittings, and all other metal
fittings, is very successfully and admirably exe-
cuted, and obtained a first-class award at the
Sydney International Exhibition. In the brass
foundry, brass and gun-metal castings are cast for
engineers, and the trade generally; and for clean-
ness aud soundness are not surpassed anywhere.
Recently, some castings of a superior character of
phosphorus bronze have been cast, and Messrs.
Watson and Crane are now prepared to supply
this metal In any quantities, and invite enquiries.
In the furnishing snop, all kinds of plumbers’ and
engineers' brass-ware is manufactured; and a spe-
cial line of manufacture is beer-engine work.
These beer engines, both in brass and nickel-
plated, are manufactured entirely on the premises,
and for quality and price cannot be surpassed, and
have obtained first-class awards at various Exhibi-
tions. and made a very attrnctive snow in combina-
tion with some plated and brass ware at the late
Engineers’ Conversazione. To conclude, we can
only wish the enterprising proprietors, Messrs.
Watson and Crane, a continuation of the signal
success which has attended them In the past, and
think that a genuine colonial Industry such as this
—which gives steady employment to about thirty
hands—is deserving of the support It has received,
and no doubt will aiwaya receive, from the public.
Political Points
Dan. 0 Connor’s speech in the Assembly
the other night implied that he believed ho waS
left out of the Ministry because of being a Catho-
lic. Dan., you’re wrong. It was because, being a
Catholic, you happened to be Dan. O’Connor, too !
The cables in the daily papers constantly
tell us that “a widespread Nihilistic conspiracy
has again been discovered in Russia.” Why send
along such news ? What would astonish us would
be news that Alick had at length emerged from
the coal-hole, and that a widespread consphaey
had been discovered to keep him on the throne.
A SOLTLOQU V.
Quoth M'Elboue, ‘ Look here, begorra!
That railway down to Illawarra
Looks—and in troth I am not sorry —
A dodge, just a la Lake Macquarie.
It may be false, but what a chance now
It gives to make two big chiefs dance now ?
Could any little sport be creamier
Than pasting ‘Jack,’ and our straight Premier?’”
Leaven of republicanism working In the
Spanish army. Cablegram, of date October 28, an-
nounces that a regiment guarding public buildings
in Madrid has been disarmed. ’Tls not mahy
weeks ago since a regiment of lancers, stationed
near Logrono, broke into open Utlny, which was
only quelled with difficulty. We shouldn’t be a
bit surprised to hear of Alfonso, Marie Christina,
Salm-8alm and Co., being “ hunted,” before long.
Add to this that the King of Portugal thinks of
abdicating, and “the United States of Europe,”
seem not so wild a dream.
Austrian influence is evidently powerful
in Servia, Roumania, and Bulgaria. King Milan
has lately been feted at Vienna. King Charles has
been dittoed. Prince Alexander has Just dismissed
his Rusky Minister of War, and sent back to their
own country all other Rusky officers in his army.
To counteract the German leaven in the Danubian
States, Russia musters Prince Nikita and the
Montenegrins, the Bulgarian people who don’t
think as their Prince thinks, and Peter Kara-
georgewitch, the pretender to the throne of Servia,
who married, in August, Prince Nikita’s daughte
Zorka.
To the German “ A force de petndre le
didble sur le inur, il flnit par apparaitre ,” the
French answer “ Nous ne croynns pan an (liable.''
Drifting into war those nations are again—a war in
comparison with which the last was a mere street
row. Four millions of trained Cauls, an an equal
or greater number of Teutons, are, if not putiing
their trust in God, at least keeping their powder
dry until one old man tells them that another old
man has been insulted and that half a million ot
them must die to set matters right. Was it such
an act of statesmanship after ail fur Bismarck to
let Paris stew in its own gravy till Alsace ard
Lorraine were given up ? Would it not hare been
more far-sighted to screw a few more m lliards out
of the I renoh and leave them their province* ? Hy
the former course war might have hecn p, srponed
ld©d—by the latter it becomes inevitable
If the Antoine (he is the Metz member in the
German Parliament and indicted for treason)
affair is mismanaged.” says the Whitehall
Review, * we are as likely as not to see another
Franco-German war next Summer." Ehcu!
* * ♦
When the Victorian Parliament rises, there
is to be a seven months’ recess! in order to allow
the big gooseberry, and “old snake story,” and
V.? y p discovery to be trotted out... Says
Wrecker Dailey supplies the brain and b* ck
b0 the Cabinet, Farnell the lymphatics. Reid
and Wright the clerical ability, Stuart and Dibos the
common sense, and Abbott the nuaviter in modo ;
all that is wanted is somebody to infuse a good
dose ot for titer in re. ... It is rumoured in N.S.W
political circles that Mac and tin Go- tie, are the
prickly pair whom Parliament intend to • radicate
Everyone wili be pleased to hear that Mr. Tomb-
stone Woseby has his ears back f.-r the next
gene al election ...Mr. Mac-cat-lie m,s had his
me-ow in the land bill. He 1) get a bout—Tack indue
course.. • - Knox has Just obtained leave ot absence
irom Parliament for the remainder of the i-essum.
Hut its Edward Knox, not John. And what
knocks us out in one round is the fact that om
Knox appears to be of about as much use to tht
State as the other.
Mr. Shaw, the meek and lowly missionary
lately labouring among the Hovas, openeth his
maw, and maketh £1000 of French money go th<
way of all collections ...Everything’s more or less
anomalous in Ireland. We now learn that during
the year ending March last there was an Increase
of 246,667 gallons in the consumption of spirits,
notwithstanding that during the same period thert
was a considerable decrease of nonulatlon.
THE THREE AGES OF WOMAN.
INTERIOR VIEW OF MESSRS. WATSON AND CRANE’S ELECTRO-PLATING WORKS.
A LAMENT.
Although the sun may deck the earth,
His gladdening beams our day Illume,
And Nature worship at his birth,
At night he sinks in gloom.
Although the rose may bud and blow.
And grateful eyes admiring gaze.
Its life—ah, bitter thought to know—
Is counted o'er in days.
And youth, that first, with eager eyes,
And bounding heart, comes tripping gay—
Just laughs; and then for ever dies
That happy youth away.
Yes, Life Is but a bending crutch—
A medley strange of smiles and shrieks;
All this I wouldn't mind so much,
But for my sternless breeks I
That City by the Sea.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Far, far away in sunny climes -
A dream it seems to me-
I hear once more the vesper chimes,
In that city by the sea;
And as the bells ring softly on,
My life I’d give to be
Once more with one I parted from
In that city by the sea,
I hear the bells, and yet I start,
For, ah I I cannot see
The maid I loved with all my heart
In that city by the sea.
Oh, happy hours and days long past.
How sweet they are to me—
A dream that will for ever last
Of that city by the sea.
Anthony Hordern and Hons, of thn Hay-
market, have decided to raise the Palace Empo-
rium, already four-storeys high, to nine storeys,
at a cost of t35,000. Powerful elevators will con-
vey visitors to the firmament, where will be found,
among other attractions, a coffee palace, and
promenade, &e.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
It has been pointed out to us that the
sweets of Anglican episcopal preferment in
Sydney have attracted three Hs—Broughton,
Barker, and Barry. We suppose the diocese may
therefore be deemed “ terque Beatus.”
The World, in referring to Sirenry’s trip
to the old country on a financial commission,
says : - “ Sir Henry Parkes connect himself
with no enterprise that has not the character of
soundness.” Quite so 1 He never did here, so why
should he do so there. With us he was all “ sound’’
et preeterea nihil.
When the Hon. James Service rises in the
House It is with the look of a man who doesn’t
mean evermore to sit down. His eye scans the
benches and circulates through the galleries with
a glance that proclaims the stability of monarchial
institutions. And his first words Increase the
belief in the Immobility of his attitude. But his
last words are cruelly impatient in the store-room
where he has them chained up, and, when they
get him engaged in impressing the audience with
his immortality, they burst their fetters, and,
rebellious subjects as they are, plunge through his
mouth, and are off before he knows it. That’s
why he mostly takes his seat with “a drop,” and
wears such a mystified expression for some time
after. A friend of ours calls Mr. Service an
orator, and so would we if we cared as little for
truth as our friend.
Lord Chief Justice Coleridge is being made
much of in America. This is not to be wondered
at, for a Judge who administers justice is a rara
avis in the States, and deserves to be treated with
respect. Possibly Lord Coleridge stayed, while in
New York, at the Hoffman House, where the bar
is "run” by Stokes, who murdered James Fiske
in cold blood, and paid the penalty of his Indiscre-
tion In throe years imprisonment—but this was
after an expenditure of fifty thousand dollars.
A hundred thousand dollars might have meant no
imprisonment at all. Stokes’ bar-room is the most
luxuriously-appointed in the world. Among the
pictures on the walls is the celebrated “Nymphs
and Satyr,” for which the worthy proprietor paid
ten thousand dollars, and has refused an offer of
fifteen thousand. We should have liked to hear
the late lamented Marwood’s sentiments about
Stokes and his bar.
The London Stereoscopic Company have
forwarded to New York the first instalment of
orders for “ Irving” photographs—thirty thousand
sets of him as Mathias, in “The Bells” the set
consisting of six photographs. To see these in the
windows of the Broadway shops was the ambition
of poor Bateman (himself an American), under
whose management “The Bells” was first pro-
duced, and Irving’s fame established. Bateman’s
admiration for his pet was unbounded, amounting
almost to idolatry; and the people who are so fond
of predicting a failure for Irving, in the States,
must remember that it was a cute American— a
man of large theatrical experience in his own
country—who was first struck by his peculiar
ability, and gave him his great chance. Bateman,
at any rate, was wonderfully confident that Irving
would create a furore whenever he crossed the
Atlantic. We shall, now, see whether his pre-
dictions will be realised.
Purves is never so happy as when he is in
the middle of a lot of pressmen, especially if he
have one of them in the dock and another in the
witness-box. When he got the brilliant Whit-
worth in the latter enviable position, the
other day, he kicked his gown behind him and
smiled at the celling. He showed he had been a
most diligent student of Whitworthian literature,
even to the extent of the little classical quotation
“I’m jiggered,” to which that author is partial.
And when mention of Cregan’s “ Anonyma” pro-
duced an “ um ” from the witness, the barrister
naively wrested it into a telling “ yum yum.” In-
deed, were it not that Purves was expected to
play some pranks with “the literary men,” the
Police Court would not have been nearly so full.
It was a foregone conclusion that Williams, the
proprietor of the Sun, would be committed, and as
there were very few facts to be exposed, the sole
interest settled in the play between the witness-box
and the bar.
Mr. Justice Williams, of Victoria, goes
round to assizes on a bicycle, and his performances
ai e reported with faithful minuteness in the Mel-
bourne evening papers; thus, we are told that the
journey from Ballarat to Geelong was made in five
hours and twenty minutes, “the actual riding time
being five hours and five minutes.” As we are
also favoured with details of the stoppages, and of
tie behaviour of the wind, during the journey,
&<■. &o., we presume that the learned gentleman
k» eps a “log,” while on his machine. One way
and another, the “ majesty of the law ” is going
into a rapid decline It’s all very well to maintain
that a judge may se'ect any form of locomotion
that he chooses, but we candidly confess we should
not care to stand our trial for murder before a
judge who had just armed in town on a steam-
r< Her or an elephant. It wouldn't seem quite
right, don’t you know. Besides, we may soon nave
them of such athletic propensities, that they will
si ntence a man according to his muscle, or try the
“ best of three throws ”— Gneoo-Roman style—
with the prisoner at the Bar, to decide If he be
“ guilty or not guilty.”
A remarkable instance of endurance comes
from the far north of Queensland. Mr. Lawrence,
leader of the Government prospecting- party,
arrived in Herberton a few days ago, after an
ordeal that few could survive. Leaving Limestone
Creek by himself, he was instructed to meet a
party at an indicated spot, but on reaching it no
one was there; and that night, while he was filling
his billy at a creek, the bush fire came along, and
destroyed everything but his saddle and revolver,
a id a small piece of damper. Next morning he
i art* d, but as the whole country had been swept
i y the fire, on the second afternoon his horse
knocked up, and he left it. Through the scorched
country, under the scorching sun, ho trudged on,
and late at night came on water, of which he drank
nearly nine pints. A couple of mouthfuls of hard
r’amper had been his sole food for forty-eight
hours. Next morning be gazed anxiously through
the smoky atmosphere, hoping his horse might
find its way to the water; but no. On the third
and fourth days he had water, but no food. On the
fifth and sixth days neither, till the last night,
when he camped by a water-hole, and fixed
a leaf from his diary on a tree above the bed of
sand from which be never expected to rise again.
On the seventh morning, however, he plodded on,
and struck the Hodgkinson, soon afterwards
coming across two blacks. The spot was but a
short distance from Mount Mulligan, where, only a
few weeks before, young Desailly was speared;
but, as Mr. Lawrence said, “ when a man hasn’t
had a morsel of food for seven days, he’s not much
afraid of anything,” and he took his chance. They
seemed friendly, and took him to a native flgtrce,
where he had “a tremendous feed,” and subse-
quently fetched him to a white camp. But his most
critical moment was when they put a mark up and
desired him to fire at it. To refuse might nave
offended, while to fire was to empty his barrel, and
he had only two shots left. But he was too weak
to dispute, and chanced it. By luck, he hit the
tree, and the blacks seemed pleased. He is now
none the worse for his fearful starving, and says
that after two days’ torture the hunger left him
and weakness came on. Lawrence’s case is an-
other illustration that a man never knows what he
can do or suffer till tested. And there are thou-
sands of cases lino his in the annals of Australian
bush life.
In the Melbourne Review is a memoir of
Adam Lindsay Gordon, the first fair attempt we
have seen to do him Justice since, thirteen years
ago, he lay stark on Brighton Beach, while the
outside world wondered why he should die. It is
by Alexander Sutherland, M.A. Had Gordon never
met a tragic death, had he never been the idol of
crowds on Flemington course, his poetry alone
would have entitled him to a more lustrous page
in Australia’s history than has been accorded him
till now. Even had he written no poetry, bis life
was eventful enough to Invest it with all the inter-
est of a great romance. If ever “ the poet in a
golden clime Is born,” Gordon was. Hie father,
Captain Adam D. Gordon, after years of service in
the British army, married a wealthy cousin, and of
this union, in 1833, Adam Lindsay Gordon came.
He was born in the Azores, on a sunlit
Island in the blue tropic sea, where the hills
and valleys seemed like the blessed regions
of holiness, never blighted by frosts, nor
withered by the too fervent sunbeam, but
fragrant with verdant pastures and everlasting
roses. When he was 8, his father removed to Chel-
tenham, and there, amid tne breezy uplands of the
Cotswold hills and the verdant valleys of the upper
Thames, young Gordon learned his hunting lore
and his love of horses. H is soul grew big and bold,
and his limbs sturdy; but he also became the
intimate of horsey people, and thenceforth an
anxiety to his parents, it is useless to hide that
he was wild in the wildest sense, but never dis-
honourable. At Woolwich he got into scrapes,
and at Oxford—though his poems bear traces of
the culture he somehow acquired—he was never a
real student; and, at last, the escapade occurred
that drove him from home. Gordon and a chum
had agreed to buy a racehorse, Tim Whiftler (what
a rush our thoughts take back to the “ satin-
skinned bay,” at the name!) and were paying for
him by Instalments, but the owner refusing the
use of him on a certain occasion, at midnight they
broke into his stable, took the horse and appeared
next day at the races. Gordon had just ridden him
home winner in a stiff steeplechase, when amid the
applause his riding had called forth, the owner
appeared with a warrant for his arrest. Gordon
escaped, but the affair was with difficulty settled,
and he left England in 1853 for South Australia. It
was a bitter parting for Gordon, knowing as he
did that he was considered to have stained the
family name, and there Is hint of Its poignancy in
his wailing verse, “ Whisperings oi the Wattle
Boughs,” and in the pathetic lines to his sister,
which were never found till long after his death.
Though he had Introductions to the Governor and
others, he never presented them; his wa* not a
nature to be satisfied with the life of a fashionable
loafer. He joined the mounted police, and through
the many vicissitudes of a hardy and dangerous
life, proved himself all a man. “ De Te“’ and
“Wolf and Hound” are incidents in his own
career. When directed to escort a very vile woman
several days’ journey through the bush, Gordon
resigned rather than comply. His “ Ride from the
Wreck” describes his own exciting gallop from a
station near Cape Northumberland, when the Ad-
mella went ashore, to Mount Gambler, whence the
news was telegraphed to Adelaide; and the marble
slab commemorating that disastrous wreck used
to be the most conspicuous object in the long room
of the Melbourne Custom House, though few
knew how Gordon was connected with it. He was
next horse-breaker, and the boldest rider in the
district; then livery stable owner, and a very poor
business man. About 1863, he received £7000
through the death of his parents. With this, he
might have gone to England and taken a place in
society again, but rough bush life and proud self-
reserve had given him a strange shyness. How he
felt that some unbridgeable gulf separated him
from the society that was his by birthright, can
scarcely be better told than in his own few lines:—
“ Booted and bearded, and burnt to a brick,
I loaf along the street;
I watch the ladies tripping by,
And I bless their dainty feet.
I watch them here and there.
With a bitter feeling of pain—
What would I not give to feel
A lidy’s hand again ?”.
Yet he was married, but scarcely to one such as
those words were evidently applied to. Severely
injured by a throw from his horse at Robe, he
married the innkeeper’s daughter who nursed
him. Six years after their marriage, Gordon
wrote: “ She has more pluck in her little finger
than I have in my whole body. Through all the
worst of our troubles, she bore up with wonderful
spirit, and always cheered me and kept me
straight.” In 1864, he printed his first piece, “The
Feud, by A. Lindsay,” but it was not remarkable.
In 1865, he was returned as member of the 8.A.
Parliament, and the few speeches he made in
the legislative halls were, like himself and all he
ever did, eccentric: a mixture of the culture of
the Oxford scholar, with all the rude carelessness
of the bush housebreaker. He failed as a speaker,
his rough diction was a weakness, and his refine-
ment was wasted on his listeners: and the great
Melbourne races soon drew him from politics to
more congenial scenes. Being a naturally honest
man, he would probably have tailed as a politician,
anyhow. Gordon attained the name of the finest
steeplechase rider in the colonies. Johnson, the
professional jock, was perhaps the only one equal
to him in skill, but none approached him in mad
recklessness. Indeed, to his absolute indifference
to danger, and almost defiance of death, was
attributed the fact that nearly every bone in his
body was broken one time or another, skull and
all. From one fall he was unconscious for days.
His steeplechase ride on Ballarat in 1866 was one of
the most dashing performances known on the
Flemington course. In November, 1868, he won
three steeplechases in one day. In March, 1870,
when bringing Prince Rupert (a brute thatsevernl
professional jocks declined to ride) out, he was
thrown against a gate, bleeding and insensible, yet
on recovering mounted again, and rode the race.
His frame was racked all over with injuries. What
made it worse for his splendid powers as a horse-
man, was that he was not hferd enough to
escape being made use of by sporting rascals.
Again and again he tried to break from the
associations of the turf fraternity, and refused a
good offer from the Australasian to Join its
sporting staff. But he had no other marketable
talents. For a long time he lived in expectation of
receiving from Scotland some money, to which he
had been advised to put in a claim, and he was so
straitened that, taking cheap lodgings with a
fisherman at Brighton, he walked info town every
day to save his rare, while endeavouring to get a
situation. He wrote, about this time: “If I could
find any sort of work that I could live by, I would
swear against ever going near a racecourse again.
I am heartily sick of the life I have been leading.”
The feeling that he was being “ used ” filled him
with scorn; be knew that if he met death in his
most brilliant efforts it would be only another
excitement in the afternoon’s sport of those who
grasped for money. At last the news came that
his claim to property worth £3500 a year was
rejected, and, suffering from despondency, stimu-
lants, debt, and almost destitution, he gave way.
On the 23rd June, 1870, his volume of “Bush
Ballads and Galloping Rhymes” was Issued: that
morning he dropped into Clarson and Massina’s
office and ascertained exactly how much was
due to him for it. The amount was quite
insufficient to meet his liabilities, and he
went weariedly home. Next morning he rose
early, kissed his half-sleeping wife as he
whispered that he was going for a walk, took his
rifle and went out. There was never any doubt as
to the manner of Gordon’s death: he had faced it,
dared it, too often, to be afraid of it. Along the
beach on that calm winter’s morn, as the bright
sun rose on a waking world, he walked—with
bitter thoughts seething through his half-crazed
brain, and the gloom of despair on his soul; and
turning from the eye of man into the sheltering
scrub, the steeplechase poet took bis last leap—
into another world. It was through the sombre
circumstances of such a chequered life that Adam
Lindsay Gordon’s poetical genius flashed in fitful
gleams. As a rhymer ol the racecourse, perhaps
no writer has come nearer to real poetry. To
Bell's Life and the Australasian he contributed
many pieces, splendidly vivid pictures of sporting
scenes—though not poems. But, in other fields of
fancy, Gordon wrote poetry of an exquisite kind.
Ashtaroth ” is ambitious, and full of beauty,
philosophy, passion. If his works have faults,
how could they be otherwise, produced by a man
who at the very time of their composing wrote:—
You have no idea how sick I am of steepleohaslng
and horseraoing, but when a man gets so deep into
the mire it is hard to draw back. I have to ride
three races in Melbourne next week. I never go;
over that fall, and since then I have taken to drink
At least, though I never get drunk, I drink a grea
deal more than I ought to do; for I have a gooc
deal of pain in my head and neck, and am some
times so low-spirited and miserable that, if I had
strong sleeping draught near me, I might take in.
I have carried one that I should never wake from
and, if I could only persuade myself that I am a
little mad, I might do something of that sort.
All through Gordon’s poems there is a melancholy
tinge, as reckless as it is pathetic. None could
doubt that he writes the feelings of his own beam
when he says—
“ For good undone and gifts misspent, and reso
lutlons vain,
'Tis somewhat late to trouble; this I know,
I should live the same life over if I had to liv
again,
And the chances are I go where most men go;’
or that he pictures his own imaginings when he
pens—*
“ A little season of love and laughter.
Of life and light, and pleasure and pain;
A horror of outer darkness after.
And dust returneth to dust again;
Then the lesser life shall be as the greater,
And the lover of light shall join the hater,
And the one thing cometh sooner or later.
And no one knoweth the loss or gain.”
Gordon's poems are not “godly,” but there’s a ring
of manliness here —
“ Life is mostly froth and bubble,
Two things stand like stone —
Kindness in another’s trouble,
Courage In your own—”
that in their uneventful lives “ worthy ” men
rarely attain. Gordon wasted his life; yet that 1
no reason why his genius should not now have its
poor reward. To say he is generally known woulc
be incorrect. His name is perfectly strange to
many thousands of educated Australians. It’s
peculiar fact that a Press which can give un
grudged columns to the verse (some passable, some
not) of “Australie” and “ Australienne;” to th
“pomes” of the Waverley Waller, and the pltte
patter of poor Pyn, Halloran, and a Haviland, o
the mental miscarriages of a Douglas Sladen, has
almost ignored the name of the noble-heartet
Adam Lindsay Gordon.
• • •
The says that whoever makes
the attempt to read Rusden’s “History of New
Zealand ” had better procure a good English die
tionary, unless he is able to affix a meaning off
hand to such words as “ pervlcacious,” “proca
city.” “protervlty,” “ ochlocratio,” ‘‘oatachref
tioally,” and many others in which Mr. Rusden a
once Indulges his fancy and displays his research.
Mr. Carl Fellberg has been elected President of the
Johnsonian Club, Brisbane George Ernesi,
Morrison, the Age representative in New Guinea
hasn’t been heard of for a good many weeks:—
EPITAPH ON MB. MORRISON.
[By a Papuan who “ was there.”]
“We saw him fattening day by day—
We helped him pass away—
We cooked him In the latest style.
Our appetites to stay.
— A poor crazy woman, long resident in Fiji as
Mrs. Russell, is found to be heiress to £3000 in Eng-
lish property, having been Identified as Catherine
Vaughan The new curate appointed to St.
John’s, Parramatta, comes from Dublin, “ where
the dogs bark Latin, and the swallows fly in conic
sections.”— Mr. “ Ted ” Lee arrived in Melbourne
by the “Chimborazo” on the 24th October. He
stays in Melbourne till after Cup day.
* * *
Longfellow’s estate has been valued at
£70,000, of which £8000 consists of copyrights in
his works... Dr. Wade has been elected Town
Councillor for Trinity Ward, Dublin, vice James
Carey, made a wade with Professor Tobin has
Eassed to the spirit land, to learn all about ghosts,
le was connected with Pepper in the discovery
of “Pepper’s Ghost;” he also Invented Stodares
Sphinx —A refutation of the fallacy that there
is nothing funny in the London Punch has been
found, in the fact that the name of its chief artist
is George Louis Palmella Busson du Maurier
Marwood’s body was “inquested,” in consequence
of certain vague rumours to the effect that he had
been “got at” by the Irish Invincibles, but, though
O’Dooovan Rossa has, doubtless, taken credit for
his death, among bis infatuated followers, it Is
satisfactory to learn that t he old gentleman’s (he
was sixty-three years of age) decease was ascrib-
able to natural causes. Marwood’s “ business ”
had been very prosperous of late, and he died
possessed of considerable house property. Not
having trained up a successor, the Government
may have some trouble in finding a “ well-quali-
fied” man, and, whoever he may be, he will, possi-
bly, require some “subjects” to experimentalise
upon, before making his first appearance in public
— Dr. P. Gussfeldt, who recently returned from
South America to Europe, says that Acon-
cagua, the monarch of the Andes, is not impreg-
nable, and that he himself would have succeeded
had he been accompanied by a couple of Swiss
guides instead of by Chilians. As it was, he
climbed up a height of 21,200 feet, or within 1200
feet of the summit Vanderbilt, the N.Y. mil-
lionaire and sportsman, drives down town to Wall-
street with Maud 8., the famous 2.10J6 mare, the
fastest trotter the States has produced, as the near
mare of his buggy team — Mrs. Hanning, of
Canada, Carlyle’s sister, will not consent to the
publication of a number of his letters which she
possesses.. .No English fortunes have ever been
accumulated by individuals in England equal to
those of Stewart and Vanderbilt Montgomery
Biair, the last of Lincoln’s Cabinet, has joined the
majority. He was one of the signers of the
Emancipation proclamation; and counsel for Dred
Scott in that famous case Kate Vaughan’s mar-
riage with Col. Wellesley is hanging fire..A Polish
nobleman has presented for payment to the French
Government a dishonored bill of Louis XIV.’s for
£280,000, said to be perfectly genuine This is an
unparalleled case. Forty years ago a bravo sol-
dier. Captain Williams, was taken prisoner by the
Afghans, who tortured him till they drove him mad.
He was rescued, and for forty years has lived in
an English lunatic asylum. Last month there was
a fire, and Captain Williams was burnt to death
like a rat in a hole The late Thurlow Weed
admits in his autobiography that, during life, he
smoked, and gave away 80,000 cigars. We
know another man in this city who did the
same. But he smoked 79,999, and gave away
the balance. They say all weeds end in smoke.
Let us hope such is not the fate of Thurlow. • • •
A movement is on foot to erect a monument to
Captain Webb, on the spot on the Severn River
where this greatest and bravest of swimmers
saved a life—During a discussion in the House
of Commons with respect to the allowance to the
Duke of Albany on his approaching marriage, «
member suggested that “ as the Duke of Albany
had an excellent understanding, let him put it into
effect and earn his own living.” That is un-
doubtedly a brilliant Idea, and it Is difficult to see
why the Duke of Albany should not earn his own
Jiving, and slowly climb the ladder of fame ny
sheer “ hard u ork,” like his “ battle-worn
brother,” the Duke of Connaught ... Mayne Heia,
whose death is just cabled, was born in Ulster, m
1818. After several years of adventurous travelm
North America, he entered the United States Army
in 1846 He served the Mexican campaign, in
1849 he raised an American corps of volunteers ior
service with the Hungarians against Austria, out
before he reached Europe with them the re J°‘
had been stamped out. He then settled In Lpnoom
and commenced his career of novelist. His c ‘ u ®‘
works are The Hifle Hangers, The Scalp Hunters,
The White Chief, The Headless Horseman, Tpe
Child Wife. The Dead Shot, and The Flag of
tress. All his works breathe the spirit of tne
wildly adventurous, romantic, sensational,
probable, yet none the leas are in the mo*n won
THE CRICKETING JUDGE.
There was a certain learned judge,
Whose views were most advanced;
Who scoffed at all old-fashioned “fudge,”
And held the world entranced
While he (he liked athletic sports
Of every kind and style)
Played “single wicket ” in the Courts
With such as came lor trial.
Bold burglars—who “committed ” stood—
Would ny the judge be told
To do the very best they could
To keep from being “bowled;”
And if the batsman held bis ground,
And “ played ” the judge’s “twist,”
Of course he was not guilty found,
And from the Court dismissed.
While, if he showed unusual skill,
And made a splendid score;
And knocked the ball about until
The judge could bowl no more,
His Honor said: “This is a case
In which, ’tis very plain,
The gentleman may leave this place
Unsolled by guilty stain.”
But dreadful woe would oft befall
(And so, of course, it ought)
The girls—who couldn’t play at all,
And soon got bowled or caught;
The Judge, regardless of their tears,
No sooner took their bail,
Than with the sentence —“ seven years ”—
He sent them back to gaol.
This mode of trial would have been
Continued, there’s no doubt,
Except for one unhappy “scene,”
About a case of “ out.”
The judge, he claimed a “ leg before,”
Which many folks disputed—
They wouldn’t stand him any more,
And he was executed.
A SIMPLE PRECAUTION.
That’s right! Take it all! Don’t leave me a single sovereign!
Well, dear, if 1 don’t take it, you’ll only go and lose it all on that horrid Melbourne
Cup, as you did last year.


The Referee.
SPOUTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general .1
RACING INDEX.
Readers "will And the column regularly
headed with a list of fixtures to be attended to
within the month; followed by names and dates
of Race-meetings to be held in the more distant
future.
THE MONTH’S FIXTURES.
Tam worth Handicaps close November 1.
Narandera Weights November 2.
Coolah Acceptances November 2.
Victoria R.C. Spring November 3,6,8,10.
Wari«lda Weights Novembers.
Canterbury (N.Z.) J.C November 6,7,8.
Victoria Trotting Club Races November 7.
Yass Entry November 7.
Coolah General Entry November 8.
Nyngan Handicaps close November 8.
Pioton General Entry Novembers.
Baradine Entries and Weights November 8,
Wllllamstown R.C. (V.) ' November 9.
Clarenee River J.C. (Amateur) November 9.
Coolah (Annual) November 9.
Yass Races November 9.
Moipeth Races November 9.
Baradine Races November 9.
Monara J.C November 9.
Plcton Races November 9,10.
Tam worth Weights November 10.
Auckland (N.Z.) R.C. Races November 10.
Murrumbldgee T.C. Wagga, Weights Nov. 12.
Nyngan Weights November 15.
Murrumbidgee T.C. General Entry Nov. 16.
Narandera Acceptances ..November 16.
Temora Handicaps close November 16.
Murrumbidgee Acceptances November 20.
Nyngan General Entry November 21.
Murrumbidgee T.C November 21, 22,23.
Nyngan Races November 22, 23.
Tattersall’s Cup Weights November 26.
A.J.C. Summer Cup Weights November 26.
Warialda Acceptances November 26.
Narandera General Entry November 27.
Bendigo J.C. (V.) November 28, 29.
Narandera J.C November 29, 30.
Hartley District J.C. Spring November 29, 30.
Liverpool J.C. Entry December 1.
Oampbelltown Handicaps close December 1.
Bega Entry Closes December 3.
Temora General Entry December 4.
A. J.C. Summer Cup, and December Stakes,
first forfeit - December 5.
Tattersall’s General Entry December 6.
Tattersall’s Cup, non-acceptances December 5.
Oampbelltown Weights December 6.
Temora Races December 6.
Oampbelltown General Entry December 10.
Bega Weights December 10.
Liverpool Weights December 11.
Liverpool General Entry December 11.
New England Handicaps close December 22.
Bega Acceptances December 31.
8.T.O. General Entry January 3,1884.
New England Weights January 7.
New England Acceptances January 17.
FUTURE RACES.
Tamworth R.C. (Summer) December 4, 6.
Warialda J.C December 12,13.
Camden and Campbelltown J.C. Races Dec. 15.
Liverpool J.C December 22.
Victoria Amateur T.C December 26,
Pleasant Creek (V.) December 28.
Clarence Tattersall’s J.C December 28.
Gunnedah December 26, 27.
Tattersall’s (Annual) January 1, 1884.
Bega J.C. Races January 10,11.
New England Races... Janury 25, 26.
Sydney T.C January 26.
Tasmanian R.C. (Summer) February 13,14,16.
Wanganui (N.Z.) J.C. Autumn March 6,7.
Hawkesbury R.C. (Autumn) April 3,5.
AQUATICS
Double Bay Regatta October 27.
Brett v. Wood, Melbourne November 7.
Balmain Regatta November 9.
Champagne Cup November 17.
Bush v. Trickett December 1.
All Comers Regatta December
National Regatta January 26, 1884.
ATHLETICS.
A. M'Leod v. W. Jobson, Taree October 27.
Wallsend Athletic Club Meeting November 9.
Bathurst Sheffield Handicap November 9.
Junee Junction Sports Nov. 9.
Hay Athletic Club Sports Deo. 26, 27.
Blayney Sports Deo. 28.
Wrestling Match, Cobar December 26.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“W.W.P.” (Camden): Our answer was
•mite correct; the hand counts 24 “Calma”
(Newcastle): Honeydew is engaged In the Juvenile
Stakes—“Enquirer” (Dubbo): 1. The Mischief
you ask about was by Maribyrnong from Princess.
3. They are not related ...“B.L.C.” (Burwood):
Whisker, Warhawk, and Waterloo were half
brothers.. .“Pedestrianism”: The distance was
39 feet 7 inches, but was not done on level ground.
The Budget.
[BY NEW WARRIOR.]
Horse owners musn’t forget, while up to their
ears in the good things provided at Fiemiogton,
that between this Thursday and the 8th, which will
be the next earliest opportunity I shall have of
(Jiving a reminder, there are various small items
m the racing world that require immediate atten-
tion, and they may be summed up thus: On this
Thursday, the Tamworth Handicaps close; on
Friday, Coolah acceptances are to be made; and
also on the same date the weights for the good
things of Narandera are due—which tells of require-
ments for the week. Then, on Monday, the weights
for Warlalda will be declared. On Wednesday, the
entries for Yass races must be made, which day is
also the chosen one for the Victorian Trotting
Club to hold its meeting. Then, on the 8th, the
general entries for Coolah, Picton, and Baradlne
are due, and a glance at eur index will post owners
up in other “ things to be attended to ” outside the
immediate future.
Nothing absorbs the public mind but the great
racing carnival of the V.R.C. to commence at
Fiemington on this Saturday afternoon, and the
sporting purlieus are all but deserted. What I
intend writing about a probable winner or two
will not be very lengthy, as 1 shall not wade
through a whole list of horses who can have no
snow of winning, and I intend giving an opinion
only on the three most important events of the
meeting. To commence with the Maribyrnong
Plate, New South Wales will be represented by, I
suppose, Garfield, King’s Own, Venetia, Honey-
dew, Buckingham, lolanthe, Bargo, and The
Bohemian. It was my intention to have chosen
King s Own to represent me, but after his gallop
of Saturday last with Honeydew, when they were
both run to a standstill, 1 must look elsewhere for
a representative. Second King I know nothing
of, neither does the public, save that he appears to
be the elect of St. Albans. David has proved him-
self a good colt by his Foal Stakes win at Caul-
ueld, and Helene has the reputation of being a
uyer. Usually I despise going for favourites,
but on this occasion my choice will come from the
front rank; and I look to Garfield and Helene to
fun first and second, with David as the next best.
If there be any truth that The Bohemian is so much
superior to Charming, then 1 should say the foi mor
must win. The V.R.C. Derby since the withdra wal
Warwick has been looked upon as almost a fore-
gone conclusion; and properly so, too, I think, it
two-year-Qid running be any guide. At the time
and, in fact, nearly all through the
piece, Off Colour has been second In command to
the great gun, Archie, and his form as a tw</-year-
old certainly warrants it; but, unless he has im-
proved at least a stone more than the Norman by
BtaKes winner, he cannot have any show. The
untried Martini-Henry has received a lot of
genuine support; but he never was a favourite of
mine under heavy weights, and I will be surprised
if info a situation. Judging by the winning
8 ?i )ret ? Sardlus, he ought to be treated
considerable respect; and to make a Anal bid,
“I .oi 1 for Archie to win the “ blue riband
ii, 8 ”’ i i as the most dangerous of the
others, to be followed by Off Coiour. Writing
this, as I do, in the early part of the week, it’s no
small handicap not to know the crowd that will go
out when the second and final forfeit is called for,
and to hazard a try at the Cup with upwards of 60
horses to choose from, without having the benefit
* the first day’s running Is certain to bring
to light, and which is always a good guide, makes
the task much more difficult. However, to the
point. Calma’s victory in the Caulfield Cup was
such an easy one, that he must require a deal of
doing overthetwo miles at Flemington. There’s
no reason that I know of why he should be re-
garded as a doubtful “stayer”; and with the
assistance of O’Brien, one of Australia’s most re-
liable horsemen, in the saddle, he ought to be par-
ticularly handy when the final call is made. First
Demon s second in the “ Metrop.” is not of suffi-
cient merit to cause one to greatly favour his
Cup show ; but he has Improved greatly since
his defeat by The Gem, and 1 expect to
hear of him gaining a situation. The Queenslander,
be Grand, is another that ought to require some
beating, but I am not sufficiently wrapped up in
him to regard him with more than a second-rate
chance of winning. Yately belongs to the uncer-
tain division, as do also Cunnamulla and Santa
Claus; and. were it otherwise, I should go unreser-
vedly for the last-named; but his almost complete
knock-out ” in the betting market has upset my
faith in him, and, allowing those on the spot to
know more than I do, I will discard him. The
dead set” made at him during the past ten days
or so may have more significance than is generally
supposed, and he’s better let alone. Despot has no
greater admirer than I, and, notwithstanding that
many • knowing one' ” laugh at his show, I look
upon it as a particularly rosy one. Until lately, I
have had a great fancy for Nicholas; but as Alde-
de-Camp has been running over the son of Dagmar
in his work, he is probably the chosen one or the
stable. Btill, it will not surprise me to see Nicholas
finish before him with the colours up. Sardlus must
have a good outside show, and so would Yately
were he Inclined to race: and if there is to be a
great surprise in store, tails “grey” will probably
furnish it. I shall go for Calma, First Demon, and
-espot, to furnish the winner.
Santa Claus, who appears to be doing well in his
work, has receded from hundreds to eight to hun-
dreds to three without any apparent reason, and
the same may be said of the somewhat mysterious
Recovery, who left Flemington tor a few days, all
sorts of reasons being assigned for his removal,
none of which I care about swallowing. How-
ever, he has returned to Flemington, and, though
he goes well, there is still a great difference of
opinion concerning his capabilities.
It wasn’t a very wise proceeding to rattle King’s
Own and Honeydew along as they were on Satur-
day morning over the Marybyrnong Plate distance,
and a private wire informs me “ they hadn’t a kick
left in them when pulled up.” It must have been
a ding-dong go indeed, and I won’t be surprised if
both are greatly affected by the gallop. King’s
Own, who has been thoroughly wound up for
weeks, doesn’t require such “ watch-breaking ”
trials, and I’m sorry to know that his trainer was
cajoled into it.
Visitors to West Maitland during the past twenty
years or more, especially those of horsey proclivi-
ties, will join with me in expression of regret at
the death of Mrs. Matt Scott, wife of the well-
known horse owner and hotel keeper of that name,
which took place on Saturday afternoon last, after
a very short but painful illness.
I receive daily very flattering accounts of the
doings of our champions at Flemington, and it was
only on Monday that word reached me that King’s
Own couldn’t lose the “ Two-year-old Derby,”
and also that Honeydew could run his Maribyrnong
Plate in 1m. 3s., and something similar has been
sent me about Garfield, while hardly less encourag-
ing accounts are going the rounds about Bohemian
and Buckingham. Of course, this information is
from admirers of the different stables, and must be
taken with the necessary grain of salt; but how 1
sum them up, with my own opinions, will be seen
elsewhere.
The BtJXiLETiN, determined not to be behind the
times, is being represented In Melbourne by our
“ Pegasus,” who wires us fully what he has seen of
the different nags at work at Flemington, and his
interesting account, which is brimful of informa-
tion, will be found in another column. Our readers
may rely on being posted up with the latest bulle-
tins from head-q arters. and “ Peg’s.” opinions as
to probable winners will be read with more than
ordinary interest.
I am pleased to see the sporting people of Camden
and Campbelltown “ up and doing ” with a capital
programme for a one-day meeting to be held on
the 15th December. A glance at the programme,
which appears in our advertising columns, shows
upwards of 300sovs. to be given in added money;
and as a first venture, the sports of the district are
to be congratulated. The Club boasts of a good
list of working officials, and there’s no reason why
it shouldn’t go ahead and prosper. Entries are
not due till the 1st Dec.
I am pleased to congratulate the good folk of
Wollongong on the success they achieved with
their late annual meeting; and not only was there
a larger attendance than ever before, but the
racing was good, and visitors came away after a
thoroughly enjoyable trip. The hospitality of the
Wollongong people is proverbial, and I regret my
Inability to be present. Meetings at this butter-
producing district are not in great favour with the
majority of the “knights of the metallic,” owing
to a scarcity of betting, but a select few of the
fielders never miss an opportunity of assisting,
and there is always a goodly crowd of Sydney cits,
present. 1 hear that the new stand, which is built
on a rise so as to command a splendid view of the
course and surroundings, answered requirements
well, and the committee contemplate making such
extensive alterations on the running-ground that
will make the course second to none out of
Sydney. Great complaints have reached me con-
cerning the operations of the welshing fraternity,
who never, by any chance, stay away from Wol-
longong at race time. They mustered in droves,
as is usual with them, and a few of their principals
being more clumsy and barefaced than is custom-
ary in their “business,” came in for a rough
handling!by the “many-headed,” but In no in-
stance did I hear of their lil-gotten gains being
disgorged. They will visit Wollongong at its next
meeting, but so disguised as to be unrecognisable.
It wasn’t to be wondered at, with two-thirds of
the metallioians away at Wollongong races, that
Tattersall’s presentee! a beggarly appearance on
Thursday last, the “official settling day over the
late Caulfield meeting. The “books” had made
the previous Mondays “day of reckoning,” and
“ parted ” with their wonted grace ; but several
backers were missing, and couldn’t be found on
Thursday, when a few regulars only put in an
appearance. Tattersall’s Club could hardly have
appointed a more unsuitable day.
Mr. D. S. Wallace was a big winner over Calma’s
victory at Caulfield, and, unlike many horse own-
ers—and rich ones, too—he didn t forget to reward
substantially those who were instrumental in land-
ing the dollars—O’Brien, the rider, and Hey wood,
the trainer, being enriched to the extent of a
thousand pounds each. There needs no apology
for referring to such liberality.
A warrant has been Issued for one of the Victo-
rian levanting “sweepists,” and I hope to hear
that he is soon brought to justice, and an example
made that will deter others from following In hla
footsteps.
Misfortunes never come singly, and never was
this more fully exemplified than in the case of Sir
William Clark®. Bordeaux, who was supposed to
have had a good look in for the Melbourne Cup,
burst a blood vessel while galloping; and his im-
ported trotting stallion, while being led to a mare,
was kicked, and died immediately.
The rider of Hurricane, Sanders, who won the
Windsor Handicap at Caulfield, was disqualified for
three months for disobedience of the starter’s
orders.
During the past few days several sensations
have been recorded in the betting world, the most
noticeable, perhaps, being the rush on to Helene
for the Maribyrnong Plate. She had for a week or
two been suffering from a severe cold, which had
the effect of driving her back in the betting, but
coming well out of a five furlong flutter on Friday
morning, her friends rallied r und her, and at the
time of writing there is very little to choose from
In the matter of favouritism between her and
Garfield.
The following is a list of the principal prize-
winners at the late Caulfield meeting:—Mr. D. S.
Wallace £660, Mr. G Davis £445, Mr. J. H. Aldridge
£375, Mr, E. L. Macdonald £199, Mr. A. F. Smart
£166, Mr. J. E. Reid £148, and Mr. C. Fleming £148.
which, in addition to smaller sums, made up a total
of £2977.
From my files, I learn that there is yet some
chance of Messrs. Ulackler and Ferry having a new
lease granted them in Adelaide, the councillors
passing a resolution in their favour, but some
restrictions are to be placed on the lessees, which
have not yet been decided upon.
Several sweep promoters and their assistants
have been arrested in Melbourne, and the prin-
cipals bound over in large securities. The assistants
were discharged.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The Clipper says Hanlan will not go to
Australia to row.
Trickett and Rush row on 1st December
for £300 aside. We take no more Interest In this
match than we’d do in a row among 1 the dead
electors at Devonshire-street cemetery.
George Coulthard, the well-known Vic-
torian cricketer and footballer, died on 22nd Oct.,
in the 27th year of his age. Poor George’s greatest
performance was the signal defeat of the New
South Wales team by himself when umpire for the
English Eleven It was Coulthard’s decisions that
caused the big cricketing row.
In England, Mr. Cunard has purchased the
Orleans Club House and' Grounds, Twickenham,
for £83,000. It is stated the Club has averaged a
loss of £1000 per annum since its commencement.
This is the Club at which our cricketers had such
a healthy time of it—where Billy Murdoch danced
with princesses, and mashed duchesses; and where
Spoff received such a knock when C. I. Thornton
belted his bowling clean out of the grounds.
Many pigeon-shots have stated that game
shooting was every bit as cruel as pigeon-shooting;
but such would not seem to be the case. Every
man at game-shooting does his best to kill, but if a
man can kill pigeons at twenty yards he is handi-
capped and put backjten yards in order to reduce
him to the level of those who are without his skill.
After a pigeon match birds may often be seen
sitting, wounded, on house tops and other elevated
places in the neighbourhood of the shooting. They
can not be got at and killed, so they are left to a
lingering death. Such a thing would be very
unlikely to happen at game-shooting.
On 25th August, at Belgrave Grounds,
Leicester, the scene of Howell’s successful attempt
at beating the mile record, Wood, of Leicester,
accomplished the mile in the wonderful time of
3 min. 312-5 sec. (with a flying start). The differ-
ence between starting off a stool and a flying start
is reckoned as equal to about five seconds. The
event was the twenty miles’ professional bicycle
championship, and, as usual, It was a waiting race,
nobody caring to make the pace till the last mile,
when Wood let himself out, with the above result,
winning by about 30 yards. The time for the full
distance was 59 min. 41 2-5 sec* Both Wood and
Howell beat Lees easily, though the pace was so
much slower than his previous performance.
The Clipper says Hanlan paid Lee and
Ross fifty dollars each for the service they per-
formed by beating Courtney in the latter’s trial
heat at Watkins Regatta, when Courtney, by the
“jockeying” of the two scullers named, was
forced out. This not only shut Courtney out of
the final heat, but it had the desired effect of im-
pressing many with the truth of what Hanlan said
at Ogdensburg concerning the Union Springs
sculler’s ability, Ross and Lee being two of the
half-dozen named as better than him. Even sup-
posing that Hanlan in making the offer bad only
this fact in mind, and did not intend to place a
premium on unfair practices, his action must still
be set down as very small business for a “ cham-
pion of the world" to be engaged in. Perhaps if
the other side had seen his offer and gone fifty
better the interference which seemingly lost
Courtney the heat would not nave occurred.
la the coarse of a long letter in reply to
Wm. Sherritf’s challenge, John L. Sullivan inti-
mated that the latter did not mean business, and
says that a deposit of £250 for a private glove-
contest would be covered without a moment’s
hesitation. In reply to this, Arthur Chambers,
Sherriff’s backer, posted £100 additional in the
hands of Harry Hill, making £250 held by him on
behalf of “ Prussian ’’ for a private match with
Sullivan. The conditions were that the contest
should take place in ten days or two weeks from
September 11, under the Queensborry rules as
framed for endurance contests: the men to fight
till one was beaten, and the spectators to be limited
to five or ten a side. This snow that business was
meant, ana that the challenger was not looking
for gate money. So that we shall hear all about
this little affair next mail.
The tea-mile race betweeo Wm. Cum-
mings, the English champion, and Wm. Steele, for
a stake of £300, was decided at Blossburg, Pa.,
Aug. 18. The start was made at 5.30, Cummings
taking the lead. He remained in front for half a
lap, when Steele passed him and kept ahead until
the finish of the sixth mile, when Cummings left
the track. Steele kept on and made three laps
more, after which the referee, Arthur Cuambers,
called him off the track and gave him the race.
Cummings was completely used up, Steele’s pace
being the fastest ever seen in a long distance race.
Had Cummings stayed on the track and forced
Steele to the finish, there cannot be any doubt the
record would have been lowered. A disgraceful
scene occured soon after Cummings withdrew
from the contest. A man from Mclrtyre, who had
backed him to win, struck him as he was dressing,
and attempted to inflict serious Injuries. A by-
stander, however, interfered and protected Cum-
mings until help arrived. The assailant managed
to escape, and could not be indentifled. Before
striking Cummings, he said: ‘Take that, you
Scotch thief, for selling out!’” Cummings left
the States for Glasgow by the “Anchorfa,” on
Sep. 8.
Melbourne’s confidence in ‘’Totalisator ”
clubs is shaken—much shaken. Two “clubs”—
the Loco and the Spero— got tired of carrying on
business after the Caulfield Cup was decided, and
have gone for a trip into the country, providing
themselves with eleven thousand pounds for ex-
penses. Sad it is to see “subsetibers” to oilier
dubs hanging round their different “club-houses”
of a night, and wondering why the proprietors
don’t put up the shutters at once, Instead of keep-
ing them in a sickening suspense until the Mel-
bourne Cup is decided. Sad it is to see them
button-hole one another, and explain how they
•‘took Calma in the double,” and will win “a cen-
tury ” over so-and-so for the Cup, If—it’s all right.
Sweet, sweet vision; foolish, foolish dream 1
THE DOUBLE.
My mind Is worn by trouble,
I took Calma in a “double ”—
There is more than ninety sovereigns In the pool;
Though If “ Fizgig ” wins the other,
’Tis most likely I’ll discover
That I’ve acted like a precious, bloomin’ fool.
My club—like that of “ Spero ” —
Will, most likely, disappear—OI
When it has to be forthcoming with the brass;
And, as sure as I’m a sinner,
If I’ve chanced to pick a “ winner,”
I shall find myself a loser—I’m an ass!
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Liberal odds: £50,000 to£L thedouble —Spero
and Loco. No takers— Missi g Friends and Mes-
sages—(Prom the Melbourne papers)Loco will
hear ©f something to his advantage if he will come
to the Horse Bazaar, Stephen-street, any day.”
“For Sale —Several good doubles on Caulfield and
Melbourne Cup. Cheap. One leg in already. Ap-
ply pavement, in front of Loco’s office.” “ Loco's
compliments to his sorrowing friends; but the ill-
ness of a dear relative in Europe has demanded his
immediate attendance. Loco hopes his sporting
friends will have patience, as all will yet be well.
Loco wiU ever remember them while sitting by the
bedside of his sick relative.” “Spero has been
cahed away on urgent business that no one else
can perform but himself, to another colony.
Winners on the Caulfield Cup will be paid
on the return of Spero. Trust one another.”
Miller and Blackburn have not yet settled where
their wrestling match for £100 a side is to come off.
— Old Javelin, by Yattendon, out of Lilia, the 1871
A.J.C. Derby winner, died recently in New Zea-
land. . At Caulfield, on Saturday week last. Forest
King fell during the race for the Flndon Harriers’
Vase, and broke Mr. R. M. Turner's collar-bone,
and, just prior to the Windsor Handicap compe-
titors leaving the saddling-paddock, Kirby was
kicked by his mount, Highlander, and had two ribs
broken — The St. Jacob's Oil Company have
offered a £60 trophy for competition amongst
the “ wheelriders 1 ’ of New South Wales, and
a similar prize for the bicyclists of Queensland....
Joseph Ives, of Sydney, matched to scull George
Hill, of Melbourne, in skiffs, from Bathing House
to Gladesvllle wharf, Parramatta River, on 16th
November, for £30 a side—A rather lively glove-
contest came ott on 20th October, at Newton and
Nathan’s rooms, Melbourne, between Lawson
(9st. 91b.) and King (8st. 61b.) King got all the best
of the fighting for the first five rounds, but after
that Lawson forced the pace, and repeatedly bored
his opponent on to the ropes, dashing in right and
left with great execution. King was the more
scientific man of the two, but weight had to be
served, and Lawson proved himself the victor
alter boxing 30 rounds in one hour and twenty
minutes Wrestling match, £10 worth prizes, to
come off at Co bar, on Boxing Day It is stated
that a majority of the Adelaide Corporation will
give Messrs. Blackler and Ferry a new lease of the
old race-course—Sir William Clarke’s Imported
trotting stallion was being led to a mare recently,
when she killed him with a single kick.. . The race-
horse Valentine died recently at Wilcannia, from
eating some poisonous plant At Tumut,
the Adelong United C.C. defeated the local
Lacmalao Cricket Club by fifteen runs
The Melbourne Argus states that “the total
number boldly advertising sweeps is no less than
31, boasting of capitals ranging from £500 up to
£20,000, and the aggregate sum amounting to no
less than £233,000.... J. Hayes and J. Grant matched
to run for £100 at Buckley’s Crossing on 13th
November, Hayes to allow Grant 5 yards in 150....
At Adelaide T. Lindsay won the football place
kick—for a handsome trophy—with a kick of 65
yards —A number of the victims of the Spero
Lotalisator fraud have arranged to obtain legal
advice as to what steps they should take with
respect to the loss of their investments.
Thomas Riley, of Newport, R.I., has been
jumping from a tower 73 feet high, at City Point,
Boston, Mass. —a height considerably greater than
that from which Captain Webb dived at Nantasket.
Two boys, about twelve years old, elicited much
admiration by their fearless diving from a height
of 30 feet — Tom Scattergood, the English light-
weight, died recently at Manchester, and was
buried Aug. 3. He was bom in 1848, stood 5ft. 41n.
in height, and weighed H4tt>. He defeated Joe
Grlndley and Jim Prior, and was beaten by Arthur
Chambers At the Minneapolis, Minn., fair,
August 30, the bicycle-race, three-mile heats,
was won by John S. Prince, defeating H. W.
Higham. Time, 9min. S9sec.; lOmin. 44sec
Ed. Htinlan wired Hosmer, September 15, saying
that he will not row in any more regattas this
season, but that he is open to matches with Ross,
Courtney, Hosmer, or any one else who fancied
he could give the champion a good shake-up....
Well HearnedI—For “M.G.C. and Groun v. Mote
Park,” W. Hearn and G. G. Hearn lately contri-
buted between them 343 runs out of 443. This may
be falny called the “ Hearned Increment,” eh ?
In a race for one hundred dollars between George
S. Blakeman on a bicycle and the trotting horse
Jim, the former to ride half-mile heats, while the
latter trotted miles, at Hamilton Park, New Haven,
Ct., Aug. 31, the bicyclist won in two straight heats.
Time, 1m. 39s., 1m. 37Ms.. . Sir Henry Halford
intends to take a volunteer team over to America
in 1884, to try conclusions with the Amerieau
amateur soldier riflemen Marquis Bibbero, who
Swam the East River, U.S., recently, with his legs
tied and his hands bound behind him, is to swim
the English Channel in the same way....Mace
defeated Joe Goss in the ring on two occasions
some centuries ago; now a match is being arranged
between them to box for £250 George Work and
Lord Mandeville shot a pigeon match on Sop. 1, at
Far Rockaway, L I., U .d., 100 birds each, for
£200. The foimer stood at 30 yards, and the
latter at 37 yards rise. Work won with a
score of seventy against his opponent’s sixty-six...
Warren Smith, the American oarsman, who, it
will be remembered, participated in the Hop
Bitters race, on the Thames, has, it is feared, been
drowned. Ho left his home in a vessel on a fishing
trip, two days before a big storm on August 39.
No tidings have been received since then of either
vessel or crew ...C. W. Grlustoad, the crack
Oxlord University lawn tennis player, received a
check to his victorious career of eight victories iu
open singles, and seven in open doubles, not
reckoning three victories in the Inter-’Varsity
contest against Cambridge. At the Eastbourne
tournament, he suffered defeat at the hands
of B. L. Williams, who, although omy 17
years of age. is one of the best players England
has produced Harry Hill, the staaeholder and
referee for the proposed Slade-Mitcheli fight, de-
cided that the men should meet within 100 miles of
New Orleans, on Octo >er 33, either man failing to
appear in the ring between 8 and 13 o’clock in the
morning, to forfeit the battle racney The Ame-
rican oarsmen, at latest, were very busy wlih chal-
lenges. Hosmer challenged Courtney, Hamm
ditto Courtney, and Wailacj Boss planked a deposit
to row auy man ip America, bar Hanlan... .Flynn,
the New England, U.S., walker, is but nineteen
years of age, and is said to be the coming man. He
recently defeated Driscoll and others. Mr Wil-
liam Astor, of New York, is “having built the
finest yacht the world has ever seen.” SLo
is to bo of steel, to sail and steam, to be “ strik-
ingly fair," of “yacht-Uke contour,” and capable
of “ocean service, like a Cuuarder. Whether
this yacht will surpass that of Mr. Jay Gou.d
remains to bo seen. The latter cost £30,000
Poaching is still largely carried on in England'.
Quantities of grouse were offered t<M,he chief
Scottish dealers in the first week of August. One
noted merchant in the contraband article finds the
work so profitable that he can atfoiM to carry the
p ached birds in a trunk as pir. onal lutrirasre
taking a return ticket to and from .mmburgn or
Glasgow, from a station on the North of Scotland
Railway. At one time, large numbers of poached
grouse used to be forwarded in salmon-boxes, but
that mode of transit having been discovered
th* polio*, has now been discontinued.


j*1URNITURE SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
and
Hall furniture, hatstands,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
T IBRARF FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
JJ TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Furniture.— the largest stock in
THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB. O’Conneli-street.
TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
- SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms. &c.
BlDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Eight-pound bedroom suiTBs.-The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY.
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Conneli-street.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 20s -
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, fram 35s; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from 10s 6d • Tables, from 7s 6d: Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 25s; Cedar Sideboards, from 708-
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
85s.
BRADLEY
NEWTON,
and LAMB,
SYDNEY.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished In
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.,
CHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Conneli-street.
Easy occasional chairs, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
TVRAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—
XJ A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d.
CHAIR BED STEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, complete, 40 Guineas.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, comprising 5-FEET
EARLY ENGLISH SIDEBOARD, MAHOGANY
EXTENDING DINING TABLE, with patent
screw and two 1 aves: LARGE PIER GLASS,
COUCH, GENT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAIRS, covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
D
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
ARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Ormolu.
room.
JARDINIERES, Parqueterie and On
VERY ELEGANT items for Drawing-r
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamm
T71RAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
SH TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
BEDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
neli-street.
W
A8HSTANDS, with marble, 25s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS, 30s; Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Conneil-street.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment; best make, lo\\ est prices.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, Iron Safes (all sizes),
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Conneil-street.
ICE CHESTS, all sizes, very superior make, ex-
amine before purchasing. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
COMMODE CHAIRS, BIDETS with pan:
SHAVING STANDS. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
APANBSE BLINDS, for Verandahs, 8 x 8,; llsj
9 x 8,13s; 10 x 8,14s. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB.
8'
TEINWAY NEW YORK PIANOS, the FINEST
In the world. A SHIPMENT Just landed.
IPP’B CELEBRATED PIANOS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB
have received
another LARGE SHIPMENT
R. LIPP and SONS’ celebrated PIANOFORTES
direct from the Makers, comprising 1 AlJb
GRANDS, LITTLE UPRIGHT GRANDS, SA-
LOON GRANDS, VERY HANDSOME and of the
HIGHEST CLASS FINISH,
in
WALNUT and BLACK GOLD.
tr WE HAVE NOW THE LARGEST STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA OF
LIPP’S PIANOS
TO SELECT FROM.
WE INVITE INSPECTION. nW
FOR PRIVATE SALK AT EXTREMBLF LOW
PRICES.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Pianoforte Importers,
O’Connell and Spring streets.
SOCIAL.
A garden party given by the Robert
Burns Masonic Lodge, at the Sir Joseph
Banks Hotel, Botany, to celebrate their anni-
versary, was a capital affair. Special trams
arrived at three o’clock, when sports at
once began. Some of the younger Masons ran
plucklly, even if not with wonderful speed; but
the method mostly adopted by the older and
experienced brothers was to get the others started,
and then turn back to their heap of clothes and
steal furtively away, nretending afterwards that
they’d slipped on a bit of orange peel or some-
thing. It wasn’t a dignified plan, but it saved
heavy married Masons from a good deal of
stiffness next day. We believe this Is Masonic
“craft.” Others whispered “Come into the
garden, Maud,” and Maud generally went. Mean-
while dancing kept on in one half the pavilion till
seven o’clock, when there was an emigration to the
other half, where Mr. F. Smith had spread agood
banquet. Brief speeches followed, Mr. T, K.
Nurthen, W.M. of the Lodge, in the chair, and Mr.
Hamilton Jacob, Senior Warden, occupying the
vice-chair. The “ Ladies” toast was essayed by a
gentleman who had taken great pains to learn an
elaborate speech, but forgot it with scarcely any
trouble at all when he found everyone looking at
him. Persistent cries for “Allen” at length brought
a gentleman of that name to his feet in reply, who
laid down as his first proposition that all the ladies
liked him, and, therefore, he liked all the ladies.
Encouraged by the applause this logical statement
met with, Mr. Allen planted his feet firmer on the
form, and proceeded: “ If we want a sweetheart,
we go to the ladies; and when we want a mother,
we (hear, hear) go to the ladies ; and, under all
circumstances, I believe 'he ladies are—urn—are
really—are (much clutter of approbation) are so
nice-looking that they are more like myself than
anyone I know." By this time, the speaaer’s senti-
ments became so mixed that he found it advisable
to subside into his normal state of modesty. Then
a bold young man struck into the proceedings
with “Tne Press.” But when he commenced to
tell how “ for the last three centuries this mighty
engine of power had wielded," and so on, with the
evident intention of bringing the history up to the
present Hme, the audience prudently left and went
hack to dancing. It was then we notice! that the
handsomest costume there was a fair lady’s—black
velvet redingote over a brilliant crimson satin
flounced skirt, and that many others were taste-
ful. The new waltz cotillons introduced by Mr.
W. King were danced, and, besides being very
gracefulasa new dance, they have the advantage
of being danceable to the ordinary cotillon music.
•
There can be no worthier object for a ball
than the benefit of a hospital, that sad necessity
which reminds us of the poverty and the pains we
have always with ns, and which must be provided
for. So we are glad to hear they have done well
up at Inverell. As usual, the “ ministering angels”
came to the front, and provided the supper free of
all cost, and volunteers found music, so that ex-
penses were reduced to a minimum, and some of
the surplus dainties were sent to the wards next
day. Many of the townspeople helped with gifts,
and the Inverell hospital will derive a good sum
from the ball.
• * *
Gay festivity reigned in Ashfleldon Thurs-
day last, when the second and last of Minner-
ville’s fair daughters donned the bridal veil. It
was a cold grey morning as Miss Frances Amelia
Banks, in white satin and swansdown, took her
happy journey to the picturesque old church at
Petersham, where she became Mrs. Samuel Boyers.
A large assemblage and the Wedding March greeted
the bridal pair as they entered, and afterwards the
guests sat to an elaborate breakfast at “ Minner-
vllle,” and the usual felicitations were exchanged.
Dancing followed, several subuibs contributing
their quota of grace and beauty. A hailstorm of
rice greeted the bride when she appeared in her
travelling dress, and the cab was bombarded with
old slippers till out of range on the station road.
Honeymoon at the Nepean.
* * *
On the closing of the Bachelors’ Assemblies
for the season, it was resolved, before the final
separation of the members who had got to know
and love each other so much, to have one last
gathering. It’s getting warm for balls, so they
decided to have a picnic, with plenty of fresh air
and sunlight: and it was held on Saturday, at
Tennyson. The party quite filled the steamer, and
took down with them a caterer and assistants: also
a band, which played on the way. On arrival, good
dancers were found to be plentiful, and, with occa-
sional intervals for walks, talks, and games, the
time was spent till six o’clock, when all sat to tea—
and speeches, combining the smallest amount of
oratorical power with the largest amount of noise,
followed. The healths were proposed of the Queen,
Mr. Deeper (hon. sec.), Mr. Long (lion, treas.), the
committee, ladies, chairman, etc. ; and then
dancing continued till the 20 items were done by
9 o’clock, and the steamer returned, all on the
happiest terms with one another. Mr. Geo's band
of four performed the music, which didn’t “gee”
wonderfully well.
* * *
For the Living Chess Match, the floor was
marked out in black and white checks one yard
square, and the view would have been more effec-
tive had the spectators been further off, and more
above the board. On the first night, the novelty
drew a great attendance. First, Heralds appeared,
accompanied by Knights, one of whom threw out
a challenge, which was accepted by the other, and
the conditions of the tournament were then read
out in humorous phraseology. Then the Heralds
retired to fetch the combatants, and to the martial
music of a band the procession came out, black
and red, after their kind. Each King conducted
his Queen through an avenue of “pieces,” who
closed in behind In pairs, and all marched on to the
floor. The games were played on a small side-
board, and the Heralds copied the moves, a toot
by a vigorous young man on a cornet marking
each step in the game. Whenever a Queen
had to move, the Herald removed his hat
with a deep obeisance ; and, on checkmate,
the King offered his sword with a bow of
submission. It must not be supposed that the
games wore any exhibition of chess skill.
The intricacies of subtle problems, interesting
though they be to students, would not have suited
a large public audience, who would hardly care to
wait for half-hour moves. The games were simply
spectacular displays, and the moves were made
rapidly. And though Bishops did occasionally get
on wrong squares and Pawns took one another
without any apparent reason, and there was much
uncertainty In the Castling,—owing no doubt to
the beauty of the Rooks—the public overlooked
such trifles. But the game might have b*>en made
more interesting. For Instance, suppose the Pawns
had all been made to take one another at the start;
next, the Knights to checkmate the Bishops, and
then take themselves; there would then have been
room for two Books aud one Queen to push the
Red King into one corner, while two Rooks and
the other Queen blocked the Black King in the
other corner. By thus checkmating both Kings in
three wa>s at once, precisely at the same moment,
we think a very effective finish would have been
produced. But It takes a deal of practice to get this
ending to a game. The sixteen Pawns were Nelson
sailors, eight wearing white tunics and red pants,
and eight yellow and black garb. Knights wore
the respective colours, with steel breastplates,
bucklers, and helmets, and carried battle-axes.
Bishops were distinguished by white robes girdled
at the waist, mitre hats, croziers and beards. The
four Rooks were young ladies, two in white nun’s
cloth adorned with hearts, the bodices turreted
above and below on a foundation of red, red skirts,
and little flags in gold turreted caps; two were in
black and yellow. The Queen of Clubs (black) was
Mrs. Moriarty, who was costumed in yellow cash-
mere skirt, bearing black velvet clubs on it,
watteau train of black velvet, medallions of
black velvet and gold braid, crown and sceptre.
The Queen of Hearts (red) was personated by Mrs.
John Smith, whose costume was similar in style,
but white instead of yellow, and with scarlet satin
train bordered with ermine. In place of the black
relret. Red King was Mr. Labertpuche,! in white
and red; Black Kin#, Mr. Bell, In black and yel-
low. The other pieces were: Black Bishops,
Messrs. H. Cadell and J. Mann; Knights, Messrs.
Welsh and Moore; Rooks, Mrs. Bell and Miss K.
Mann; Red Bishops, Messrs. M‘Kay and Cunning-
ham; Knights, Messrs. H. Fliggand Walter: Rooks,
Misses Gore and Manning. The Chess Tournament
was the main attraction, and, with the exception
of flower selling, trade was not brisk in other ways.
Between the games, John Carroll, a Nelson sailor,
performed some step dances, including clog, sand,
and somersault steps. He has danced for the delec-
tation of the Prince of Wales, and his steps are
faultless enough to dance before even better
judges than H.R.H. Quong Tart’s tea was well
patronised, and Profs. D’Harcourt and Cansdell
exhibited physical exercises. Altogether, there
was nothing in the bazaar that would cause us to
get intensely excited or enthusiastic; there was
none of the mad excitement attached to the raffling
of smoking caps, or taking “shares” in a list that
never got full; but it was a very pleasant lounge.
And it is fair to say that when the ladies asked
anyone to buy, they did it very prettily and very
patiently.
To-night, in the Exhibition, Mrs. Anna
Potts commences her medical lectures; and, as
they are about ourselves, we can’t conceive of a
more important subject. Mrs. Potts comes with a
reputation from America and New Zealand, and
last week raised great interest in Parramatta
Some people think women ought not to be doctors.
But when Mrs. Potts began to study, and to under-
stand the sufferings endured by many thousands
of women rather than disclose their ailments to a
male doctor, she thought she could strike at no
nobler line of life. That’s the difference.
* * •
On Wednesday last week, a large and
fashionable crowd gathered at Christ Church, St.
Leonard’s, to witness one of those interesting
sights that always seem to exercise such magnetic
attraction for the fairer half of humankind, and
to stir the feminine soul to its tenderest depths.
The chancel was decorated with wreaths, white
lilies, camellias, azaleas, ferns and leafery ; and as
the bride’s father, Mr. James Manning, led her up
the aisle it was seen that Miss Mary Elizabeth wore
a line cream Ottoman silk, trimmed with lace, the
usual wreath and delicate veil, and a general air of
Joy. Mr. Frederic William Orr (sou of the late
Lieut.-General Orr of India) who was the bride-
groom, did not appear to be entirely free from
anxiety, through which, however, symptoms of
latent joy occasionally broke. There were
five bridesmaids: Misses Manning, Glennies
(2) Hook, and Finch, dressed in cream
India muslin underskirts trimmed with lace, over-
skirts of terra-cotta silk, and close-fitting straw
bonnets decked with flowers to match the dresses.
The dresses varied in shade, the chief maid wearing
the darkest, and grading from that to light. AU
carried flowers. Mr. Labertouche escorted the
bridegroom’s mother in heliotrope silk, while Mr.
W. A. Manning led Mrs. Manning in bronzebrocade
and bonnet to match. Miss Woolley played some
beautiful music on arrival of the bride, also the
Wedding March afterwards, and a choir of ladies
sang a pretty refrain while the signing was being
done in the vestry. There was an informal “ At
Home” after the ceremony, and later on Mr. and
Mrs. Orr departed for Baden Baden, and subse-
quently went to Bega.
On Thursday last, the Amazon Quadrille
Assembly held a highly successful picnic at the
Sir Joseph Bank’s Pavilion, Botany. The attend-
ance of the members, with their ladles, numbered
about 100. Arrived at Botany, a neat programme
of twenty-one dances, with three extras, was got
through by 6 o’clock. Mr. H. Maurice, President
of the club, took the o iair at luncheon, and after
the customary toasts, the chairman presented a
handsome gold ring to Mr. J. Steel, as the Club’s
mark of esteem in recognition of his valuable
services for the past six months as their M.C. Mr.
O’Shea also presented a handsome illuminated ad-
dress to Mr. Cocks for the efficient manner in which
he had filled the office of hon. treasurer. Owing
to the gloomy aspect of the weather, the dresses
of the ladies were not of the most brilliant des-
cription. A pale blue silk, with flounces of wnite
lace, enclosed a fair and graceful young lady from
Woollahra. A drab cashmere and broch5 looked
very nice, and was worn by a lady seen very much
in the company of the M.C. Miss Kenny from
North Shore, looked “ever so ” in white, relieved
by a pretty tartan sash. A dainty cream llama
adorned a pretty fair-haired girl from Kiley-street,
and was much admired for her fairy-like move-
ments. Redfern sent two sisters in olive.
* • K
The fact that Mr. K A. Fox was given a
valedictory banquet and ball at Kendall, near
Camden Haven, reminds us that the place was
named after the poet At a Bundaberg ball,
given to Mr and Mrs. F. Buss, some miscreant
enlivened matters by burning cayenne pepper out-
side. The results of the trick were such as must
have been, says the Bundaberg Jeames, “most
gratifying to the comically constituted mudlark ”
who did it. At the same ball, dancers enjoyed
themselves “ until King Sol sent his crimson
emissaries to foretell bis approach.” This is
literary style, if you like— Rosehill Bowling Club,
at Parramatta, are erecting summer-houses, to
render their grounds attractive for ladies....Early
in October, philanthropic Mrs. Darvall, of Ryde, is
to be presented with a white marble bust of her-
self, the cost running nearly Into three figures —
Adelong girls played a cricket match recently. The
backstopping was done by the three most daring
maidens standing in a row behind the wicket and
spreading their skirts out. All went well until the
umpire (who was a male man) was indiscreet
enough to give a pretty bat-girl out “ leg before
wicket,” upon which two of the “field” fainted,
and the rest cried out “shame.”—Tradesmen’s
ball occurred last week at Wagga, and was
fairly successful. We hear there is to be one in a
week or two at Penrith, where they are popular...
The Raymond Terrace Football Club had a ball
lately on Mr. Fenwick’s premises, which was well
attended ... Silver readings have been Inaugurated
at Dungog The Hunter River Annual Show
gave a display of local fashion, although weather
was bad, and some pretty dresses pleased the
eye, -while the band did the ear Big divorce
case coming in Brisbane. Splendid thing for the
demure dailies, who never “ invade the sanctity,
&c.”... Big Government House Ball in Melbourne
on the 7th, Owl Ball on the 8th — The Wiloannia
Boating Club had a good ball last week to help
their funds. More anguish of mind for that
Echo man “Humming Bee” believes that
the show of dress at the Cup next Wednes-
day will not be excessively dazzling. The
fabrics In fashion are really more simple than they
were last year ; nun’s veiling cashmerettes, &c.,
are not so rich as satin and broclri were. At Caul-
field races, a fashionable lady caused a good deal
of interest by parading the lawn in calm uncon-
sciousness of the fact that the most noticeable
outline of her form had wriggled round to one
side in a most unnatural manner. It was a sad
discovery ; and ladles really can’t be too careful
in these little matters Prof. West’s Annual Ball
occurs in a few days —Mr. Pigott, M.P., opens a
fancy fair in the Burwood School of Arts to-night.
More charity Buffalo picnic last Thursday at
Chowder Tinsmiths held theirs on Monday down
the harbour In the Masonic Hall, this evening
(Thursday), Mrs. F. Warskitt’s pupils give an exhi-
bi.lon of dancing. To those who love gracefulness
it will certainly be a treat—The directors of the
Port Jackson Steamboat Co. were entertained at
an evening banquet, Manly, on Saturday. The
Mayor of “ Our v illage ” presided, and the speeches
were lengthy. There was much satisfaction at the
excellent steam service and fine boats now provided
by the company. Mr. John Woods was very popular,
and Mr. Hugh George waxed warm on the Press
And, by the way, there was a very nice hop there,
the night before, given by the ladles —the ‘ manly
spinsters 1”....At the marriage of a well-known
doughty fisher of Menangle, the other day, there
was a great struggle for first kiss; but eventually
while the two nearest groomsmen were debating
their claims, the bridegroom landed it himself. We
suppose he’ll have to stop fishing now, and she
will not need to go men-angling any more.
Joe Strong, the Christchurch wrestler,
who was recently beaten by Robertson, the Maori,
has been found dead at his lodgings. He had cut
his throat with a pocket-knife.
An Englishman won the Cambridgeshire
stakes with an Australian-named nag ; while an
Australian one with a Latin-name, only took
second place. Bendigo was the 'oss frontis; Tonans
being a long way behind. Any way, it's a sort of
score for this Continent.
Re those Post Office carvings, it is said
that when B —-t heard of the Commission ap-
pointed to inspect and report upon them, he ex-
claimed, more suo : “There’s great Dangar
Ward'ell Du Paur them.”
One of the loveliest sights now to be seen
is the display of flowers at Messrs. Searl and Son’s
Nursery, at Petersham. The season has been ex-
ceptionally good, and as a consequence, the trees
and bushes are covered with large clusters of blos-
soms. Mr. Searl has made a speciality of Pelargo-
niums, and has produced over 70 distinct varieties.
Five glass houses are completely filled with this
choice plant, and the variegated flowers and
foliage combine to make a picture that would
more than repay a visit to their famous nursery.*
In a seduction case, at Ballarat Assizes,
the Judge ordered “ the child ” to be brought into
court and placed in juxtaposition with defendant
when in the witness-box. His Honor said that the
child bore a striking resemblance to the young
fellow—indeed, he added, he had never seen a
stronger likeness of a child to its father. Mr.
Gaunt, on the other hand, argued that there was
not the remotest resemblance between the two.
Mr. M’Dermott perfectly concurred with his
Honor, and in addressing the jury remarked, with
his most seriously concerned air—“ Yes, gentle-
men, had that young man not been so utterly
callous—had he shown one spark of paternal feel-
ing by taking that child in his arms, and kissing it
when I asked him to do so, there would have been
an end to the case; but he turned away from it as
with shame and repugnance.” A verdict was
given for plaintiff, with £50 damages.
For general debility and prostration Hop
Bitters will do wonders. Prove it by trial. See.


TNFORMATION wanted about FRED. IVORY,
or WILLIAMS, who was last heard of in
Sydney about four years ago. If he will apply to
Colin Douglas, care of Gordon and Gotch, Bris-
bane, ho will hear of something to his advantage.
COPPER SMELTERS, Wanted, experienced
SMELTERS for the New Mount Hope Copper
Mines. To competent married men with families,
liberal inducements offered in providing passagei
to mines, with a view to permanent settling.
Apply to Manager of the New Mount Hope
Copper Mining Company (Limited), 5 Spring-street,
Sydney.
W
office.
ANTED, a respectable, active little office
BOA, to run errands, &c. Apply at this
THE NEW LAND BILL.
READY FOR SALE—“ A Bill to regulate
the Alienation and Management of Crown
Lands and tor other purposes.” Price, Is. 6d.; by
Post, la. 9d.
THOS. RICHARDS,
Government Printer.
Government Printing Office,
Sydney, 13th October, 1883.
SEARL & SONS,
NURSERYMEN, SEEDSMEN, BOUQUETIBT8,
And Artistic Floral Dinner-table Decorators,
3 and 5 QEORGE-8TREET MARKETS, SYDNEY;
Also,
BLAIR ATHOL NURSERY, PETERSHAM.
I3&~ Pelargoniums now in full bloom. Inspection
invited.
VICTORIAN HORSEMAHKET HOTEL.
Elizabeth snd Grattan Streets,
MELBOURNE.
WINES and SPIRITS of the Best Brands.
Celebrated Castlemalne ALE always on Draught
Splendid accommodation for Board', rs. Night
porter. Terms moderate. This establishment is
in close proximity to Melbourne University and
Museum, and the nearest Hotel to the Zoological
Gardens, Royal Park.
W. NEWING (late of Sydney),
Sydney, 30th October.
Dear Belle, —The Chess Tournament, with
living pieces, being a novelty here, attracted great
crowds to the Exhibition Budding each of the
three evenings of last week on which it was held.
There is not much more to be said about the
bazaar, as these things are all very much alike.
They had different bands on each evening, and
among them the bandsmen of the Caracciolo
played one evening. Their intentions were good
no doubt, but their music wasn’t. I can’t think
how Italians, with their national love for the art,
can tolerate, much less produce such sounds.
I heard the same band at Mrs. T. S. Mort’s Garden
Party and Flower Show, on Tuesday afternoon,
when their playing was no better, but perhaps a
shade worse. Fortunately, the Nelson Band also
played ; their music is always good. The grounds
of Greenoaks were thrown open to the public on
this occasion at a charge of a shilling for admis-
sion, the proceeds of the sale of flowers and
refreshments, and the entrance fees, being for the
benefit of the Organ Fund of All Saints’ Church,
Woollahra. There was a small but choice collec-
tion of plants and flowers in one tent, where email
baskets of roses, &c., and bouquets, were sold by
a number of very young ladies, who amused me
much by their naive comparing of notes on the
sums each had made. In another tent, Mrs. Mort,
with some other ladies, sold tea and coffee, cakes,
&c. ; ices, and strawberries and cream, could also
be obtained. The grounds are very extensive,
and from one point there is a lovely view of
the Bay. Costumes were by no means start-
ling by their brilliance, though there was a
large and fashionable gathering. For the
most part dresses were dark and sombre-
looking. A sprinkling of white and cream gave a
little variety to the otherwise prevailing monotony
of blue, black, or brown. I saw two or three white
lawns, and a cream nun’s veiling or two, whica
looked fresh and appropriate. The richest dress
was a myrtle green satin, with a pattern of flowers
in velvet or chenille, very few gentlemen were
present, which perhaps was the reason why people
seemed so dull. Though I know many girls are ir
the habit of declaring that they enjoy a party eve
so much better without the masculine element,
don’t think anybody believes them, and there ar
still a good many weak-minded enough to hole
a contrary opinion, and not ashamed to avow it
The strong-minded ones must take their pleasur
sadly, for they never look as though they wer
enjoying their exclusively feminine fetes.
Last Saturday forenoon being fine, for a wonde
now-a-days, the Block was very gay with pretty
dresses. Zephyr cloths muca favoured; th
flowered sateens so much worn last summer are
seldom seen. A young lady with a perfect isthmu
of a waist wore a very pretty white lawn. Most o:'
the white dresses are trimmed with muslin embroi
dery. A remarkable combination, which ought to
have been pretty, but wasn’t, was a wlne-colourec
satin over cream-coloured nun’s veiling,
velvet Jacket, with a skirt of oream-oolourec
laoe flounces, was eurlous, and rather pretty
One pretty girl wore a fur or plush hai,
with a white lawn dress, which, however
did not look outr<5, because anything suits
fair face. A few Winter dresses still linger. Enor-
mous hats are beginning to appear; I have seen
several lately as large as cartwheels, and yet they
can’t afford much shade for all their hugeness, as
they are worn so far back on the head. A very
beautiful costume of brown velvet redlngote, with
a skirt of cream brocade, attracted me one day
last week in George-street. There are some lovelv
dresses in the windows, intended, I suppose, for
the Cup day. One is terra cotta broche, with
skirt or cream lace flounces over pale blue; anc
there are numbers of lovely flowered silks, quite
ravishing, I dare say a good many fathers anc
husbands are thankful, as Papa says he is, that we
have no Cup day nere.
I see that Dr. Simms, at one of his lectures, ex-
amined people’s handwriting for the purpose of
tracing character thereby. I should think he
would have considerable difficulty in detecting
shades of difference in the writing of fashionable
young ladles now, for, so far as an uneducated eye
can see, they all write exactly alike. The fashion-
able style is large and aggressive-looking; all the
letters stand bolt upright, like a regiment of
soldiers. I often see girls in the tram cars taking
letters to the Post Office, and the addresses stare
you in the face like a printed handbill. You can’t
help seeing them, however anxiously you en-
deavour to avoid doing so. The angular writing
has gone out ages ago.
The Double Bay Amateur Regatta, on Saturday
afternoon, was a great success. I should say, as to
attendance; I cannot say anything as to the merits
of the sailing or rowing, and must confess myself
to have been at sea (in more senses than one) as to
what the yachts were doing. They looked very
pretty, the white sails on the blue water, and the
whole scene made a lovely picture. A thunder
shower came on during the afternoon, but soon
Jiassed off and didn’t interfere with anyone’s en-
oyment, as the ladles sought the seclusion which
the cabin grants till the rain was over. A number
of young men, got up as nigger minstrels in absurd
costumes, and with their faces blacked, amused
themselves and each other by carrying on some
practical joking, in a boat alongside the flagship.
Some of the Vernon boys also rowed on the Bay,
and seemed to enjoy the fun, too. The City Band
played on board the Emu, which was flagship on
the occasion; and there were a great many ladies
and many pretty dresses. One lady wore a white
lawn dress with silver belt, the skirt trimmed with
muslin embroidery. A basket-work hat, with lace
and flowers trimming it. A huge hat, the largest
of all the large ones, attracted attention to the
pretty face beneath it. Tnis immense specimen of
the hat genua had a wreath of maize-coloured
flowers under the brim. It was worn with a very
pretty dress of soft slaty grey, with knots of car-
dinal ribbons. A handsome and rather massive
lady wore navy-blue satin, with touches of cardi-
nal; a cream bonnet, with crimson roses. A dress
I thought veiy tasteful was black broche over a
skirt of checked silks, small pattern. One lady,
with a dark-orown dress, had loops of ribbon
fastened in front, the ends reaching to her feet. I
noticed a qua! it-looking hat of brown straw, poke
shape, with cluster of ripe apricots in front, and
mops of cardinal ribbon hanging from the back.
There were many other nice costumes; Indeed,
they were all prstty, but these were moat notice-
able. z
The Bazaar at the Town Hall, for the Convent at
Ashfteld, was not so successful as it would have
been but tor the rival attractions at the Exhibition
Building. On Friday the attendance was very
small, and most of the articles were still unsold.
At Mrs. Boylson’s stall were a chair and screen
Poonah painted, and a very handsome silver
npergno. There wac a good show of fancy work
here. Mrs. M. E. MaLer had a handsome cushion,
• Illy of the Nile, pa nted on black satin, very
nicely done. There w dolls, of course, and the
nlcknaeks. I suppose the Bazaar will be
*?BF er tban time proposed, to dis-
pose of the thing's not sold. I think we have had
almost enough of bazaars for a while.
Yours,
MAB.
Coming Events.
[BY PEGASUS.]
Melbourne, October 27.
..After only a couple of days at the seat of war, i
onj « e account of the state of probabilities
0n coming events, to reach you on
™ orn | n ?> promising to add my last im-
BP™ by Y ir e on that day; and, as I know you
lke^y p e pushed for space, I will “ boil
ttle narration as much as possible. Arriv-
2P Thursday night, I was struck to find
sporting affairs much duller than I ever remember
P rev i<?us years within ten days of the
Manbyrnong Plate, and Great Season’s double”
y a . nc L 5 U P: the stagnation being a good
aea.i accounted for by the hard knock received by
at Caulfield; and the horses backed
ions' since for these events at good prices to takers
navinc continually kept their positions, besides
reaching very short prices in most oases, had, of
course materially assisted to lessen business. I
favourites for The Plate wore
Garfleid(N.8.W.), Helene (8.A.), Second King(Ylc.),
S?ifj and Honeydew (N.S.W.);
with the Caulfield winner David and lolanthe the
only others much talked about; and it seemed
to be looked upon as a certainty that none of the
Victorian representatives, outside of the couple
mentioned above, could possibly upset the public
opinion. The “ Books ” were unanimous in de-
oiarmg that those who had commenced laying
months ago had all the worst of it, as nothing was
being, or likely to be, backed now that had not
been picked at much longer odds. The Derby
certainty ’’ was still said to be sticking out ever
so tar for Archie, who seemed to have created
something like a panic among partisans of other
nags, though it was generally allowed that Martini-
Henry had shown much better work here than he
ever did at Rand wick. Sardius, despite his defeat
, Delusion tor The Guineas, seemed to have in-
spired no genera! confidence for the Blue Riband,
though there was naturally, and justly, a strong
feeling in his favour for the Cup, supposing him
to run forward in the former race, and start for
latter without having his weight raised to
Tat. 5®. Off Colour, being away at St. Albans, was
known little about by the Flemington early birds;
but, taking all I heard put together, impressions
were general in favour of the prime favourite.
The only outsider I heard mentioned was Signor,
who, on the strength of some reported private
trial, was said to have a good off-side show.
The question everyone asked me as I went my
walks abroad on Friday was, “Well, what’s going
to win the Cup ?” For. as a matter of fact, Mel-
bourne folk appear to have only one race In their
0£j^° r y« and f“ a f fhe Melbourne Cup; and con-
sidering that, until Tuesday next, there still re-
main between eighty and ninety in Mr. Barnard’s
great handicap, it must be admitted that the query
was a poser. Naturally enough, I sought for the
sa.me informa,tion, not being in much of a position
to afford it myself; and I wasn’t greatly astonished
to discover most ot my acquaintances—and some
of them knowing men. too, in quite as blissful a
state ol uncertainty as I was, although scores of
people told me, in turn, that there were not more
than a dozen with a twenty-to-one chance. The
three-year-olds were decidedly most popular, it
being conceded almost by everybody that there
were very few of a greater ago worth backing;
and good judges among the regular morning atten-
dants at Flemington told me the racehorses to bo
seen at work there were few and far between.
Fr .oni Caulfield, I heard great accounts of Pollio,
said to be better and fitter than ever he was known
DeiGre ; but I became sceptical on hearing* that,
after a very long spell, he had only been
1?, T°L k for thl r teen weeks, which I didn’t
think time enough to get him to concert pitch.
From personal knowledge I can say nothing as to
the present form” of this well-tried performer;
but I must remind my readers that he did his two-
and-a-quarter miles in the best time as yet arrived
at for the Australian Cun. Notwithstanding his
defeat at Caulfield, Nicholas was still looked upon
as the best of Mr.de Mestreslot, in proof of which
I was told that Hales had backed him,” and there
were all sorts of opinions about Calma, some saying
he couldn t lose, while others (and they were most)
had made up their minds that the extra weight and
distance would stop him. All hands wore agreed
he couldn t bo fitter, which at any rate Is always a
great point. First Demon and Le Grand had a host
of friends, as also had Dirk Hatteraick ; and the
rest I heard most about, on the score of condition,
or chances for the big event, were Commotion,
(never so well) First Water, Santa Claus, Alde-de-
aQd tw o or three o hers I thought
little of. It was very hard, I might say impossible,
to form any opinion from what I heard, and in this
State of uncertainty I made a four o’clock start to
the flemington training-grounds on Saturday
morning. J
Premising that I don’t think I ever before saw
so many unprofitable animals together in training
as racehorses, I need not spin a long yarn about all
the canters,’ ‘usefulgallops,” and “sound work”
I saw done on the tan track between five and half-
past seven; and so I will pick out the best work of
the morning, and what was done by the general
favourites, and nags whose names are most pro-
minently before the public. First, however, I may
remark that the morning was a very cold one, not
: at all favourable for fast work, while the galloping
track is not by any means a place to get reliable
time on, even for those professors of train.ng who
religiously believe in the “ticker ’ test; and here I
express my opinion (probably worthless) that there
is no invention like the “watch in private” for
ruining a horse or breaking his owner.
The first celebrity I saw was Archie, who went
the Derby distance, starting with Delusion and
Belmont, both of whom he galloped clean away
from in the first mile, which will give his stable a
good idea of what chance Sardius has with him
The Derby crack looks very well, having been evi-
dently prepared with great care, and he will
start with odds on him if all goes well. He
has naturally a good deal of “ knee action ” in
his galloping, and, like all horses with that style of
going, he “gets up ” more at the finish than at the
beginning or a gallop; wherefore it is, I suppose,
that I fancied Tie didn’t finish his mile and a half
as well us he would a quarter less. This I say
without prejudice, believing the colt quite entitled
to the position he holds in the betting, and that. If
he can last home, he must win. It’s fair to say,
though, that he had a very light weight up. Little
Sardonyx pegged away in his dogged style with
Le Grand, and seemed to me to have all the best of
the colt, whom, by the bye, I do not like for the
Cup as much as I expected I should after seeing
him go. We should have had a sensational trltO
between Santa Claus and Sardius, but the former
got away with the boy and went a round and a
half by himself as hard as he could tear; after
which Sardius started with Bassanlo, whom he
"accounted for” In the first mile, and then
finished his round solus I liked this gallop well,
for, as the colt had certainly his Derby weight up,
his 2.34 for the round was as good as the couple of
seconds less of Archie, both finishing their last
half-miles by themselves. Dirk Hatteraick started
alone for what we expected to be a good gallop, but
we waited In vain for him to come home, and I
afterwards heard that he stopped and set-to
kicking, at the far side below Mitchell’s. Dirk is a
nice Rule fellow, very pretty, and a beautiful
mover; but is little more than a pony, and I can t
fancy him big enough to fight his way in a Mel-
bourne Cup crowd any more than I should expect
him to win this Derby were he in it. Folks said
King’s Own had the best of Honeydew in a rat-
tling five furlongs, but I think differently. I
don t know what the former had on. but l don’t
think it was as much as the other, which I do
know ; and I shall be astonished if Mr. Bales s
colt doesn’t dress-down the other Duckeufield-
bred son of Goldsbrough in the race for The Plate.
The time these colts took over the five furlongs,
was 1.5, the best that has been done by the Plate
candidates ; but, it must be remembered, it was
done on a tan track, in heavy working shoes. The
“doing” of Pell Mali and Stodsdft}? JWtWhff.
as may be said also of Bristol and Wailangra, the
former of whom looks and goes very well; and
this brings me to the crack Cup three-year-old,
First Demon, who wont a mile and a half with
Sweet William. Mr. Gannon's horse is looking
grand, and going ditto, being worth watch-
ing for his engagements here; and he
made rather an exhibition of the Demon, who
from appearance and style of walking strikes me
as having had enough “delving;” but he may
—and, no doubt, will—throw his soreness away,
and run well. I insist, however, that unless a
horse can “begin” well, as well as race after-
wards, he’s very little good for a Melbourne Cup.
Sweet William did the mile and a half in 2mln.
48)-)a8eo. As I didn't see The Gem’s gallop, I will
only say he doesn’t look as well as Fve seen him.
lolanthe and Bargo went their five furlongs in
Imln. 8sec., and Martini-Henry went with Blue and
White, thegallop having no particular significance,
and, as it was finished away from me. I didn’t see
now the colt performed at the end. Despot, like-
wise, showed us nothing. Nicholas and Aide-de-
Camp started together, accompanied by Hales on
Ike; the last-named dropping out after a mile,
when Olga joined in to complete the Cup distance.
This was the tell-tale trip of the morning; for,
when half of the second mile had been accom-
plished, Nicholas fell hopelessly in the rear, and,
at the finish of the trial, when be pulled up, his
sides showed “ he had not been ridden without
hooks.” The Drummer (very fit) did a good once
round; and there was nothing else of consequence
to tell you of.
My morning’s experience makes me think well of
Honeydew (best) and Garfield (from his looks) for
the Plate; while I should pick, of what I’ve seen,
Sardius to contest the Derby with Archie. The
Cup lot are dark enough yet, In all conscience ;
but at present I go tor Aide-de-Camp as the real
“."imon,” with Sardius, Calma, and Despot as the
next best; but, after Tuesday’s gallops, I’ll wire
my finals.
[BY ELECTHIC TELEGRAPH.]
Melbourne, Wednesday, Oct. 31.
Monday’s work was of small significance, save
the good time made by Helene over the Plate dis-
tance, and a satisfactory trial by David at Caul-
field. Sweet William showed a touch of string-halt
In his near hock, but he went and looked well,
notwithstanding. Garfield was firm at midday, at
4 to 1; Helene next, at 5 to 1: King’s Own and
Second King, 10 to 1 (nominal); Honeydew, 10 to 1.
Little business is now being done over the Derby,
on which betting is unchanged. For the Cup,
Calma still holds premier position; First Demon,
Le Grand, Alde-de-Camp, First Water and Nicholas
next, at Saturday’s prices. At night there were
rumours of a screw loose with Dirk Hatteralck,
and clever people hinted that Sardius would be
kept for the Cup. The weather was cold and unpro-
mising all day, showers flooding Elizabeth-street
between noon and one o’clock, but there was a
fine night. Tuesday morning broke badly ;
and steady rain beginning at four, kept many
“ regulars ’’ at home. The rain is likely to prevent
the Plate colts from having a gallop over the course
proper. Lack of good gallops on Tuesday morn-
ing stopped much change in the odds or betting
being done at Bowes’ midday gathering.
To give tips so long before the Derby and Cup,
and in such weather, is not a task to be lightly
entered on, but here is what I think, i'he Marf-
byrnong Plato is confined to eight or ten at most,
the crowd of outsiders having no show. Judging
trom the quality, the field ought to be small. To
furnish the placed lot, I take Garfield, Helene,
David, King's Own. Second King, Honeydew,
Buckingham, lolanthe, or Bargo; and, to come
closer, I reduce these by cutting out Fen-
nelly’s pair and Buckingham. Of the rest
I take Honeydew, if the ground be hard,
but his small feet won’t like it soft, and in
that event Garfield will probably beat him. The
next two I take to be Helene and Second King,
making my quartette. From actual observation
I know nothing of Wilson’s colt, but he is danger-
ous. Honeydew has shown time to win any Mari-
byrnong—one and one and-ahalf—so he is my
straight tip, should the ground be good. The
Derby puzzles me, having seen so little work, but
this is my last opportunity. Giving Archie credit
for preserving his two-year-old form, he must win;
if not, it’s hard to tell between the publicly well-
tried Off Colour and the dark highly-bred Martini-
Henry. Believing as I do most in public running,
I take Off Colour and Sardius, if Archie should
crack before the finish. The Cup, which is still
far ahead, is even more obscure. First Demon and
Le Grand please me less than in September, and
seem too long fit. The heavy weights should be
out of it. Cunnamulla willing, he can, I believe, be
placed. The best down to 8st. is First Water, but
mv absolute pick is Alde-de-Camp; after him, most
likely, First Water, First Demon, Sardius, and
Despot. I have seen these, but am sorry that I
have not had an opportunity of seeing Pollio anti
Stockwell, who, if lit, are both to be feared. For
places, I like First Demon and Sardius. Olga
should win the Oaks.
Following are the latest items to four this after-
noon:—Sir Modred had much the best of The Gem
and Sardius in a mile and a half gallop; Signor
beat Cunnamulla, and Despot seemed to hold
Martini-Henry sate. There is no change in the
betting, except that Helene is equal with Garfield,
at 5 to 1, the former for choice Finally, I still
give Honeydew for the Plate, if fine, with Helene
second, then Second King. For the Derby: Archie
first, Off Colour second, and Signor best outsider.
For Cup : Aide-de-Camp first, Despot and best
three-year-old as most dangerous of the others.
I withdraw allegiance from King s Own and Mar-
tini-Henry, and don’t like Sardius much. The
latest betting is as follows :—Plate : 5 to 1 Helene
and Garfield, 8 to 1 Second King and King's Own,
10 to 1 Honeydew. 13 to 1 David, Buckingham, and
The Bohemian. Dertiy : Even Archie, 4 to 1 Off
Colour, 6 to 1 Martini-Henry, 8 to 1 Sardius, 13 to 1
Signor. Cup: 100to 13Calma, 10 to 1 Demon, 13to 1
Aide-de-Camp and Le Grand, 14 to 1 Despot, 15 to 1
Nicholas, 30 to 1, Pollio, Magnet, and First Water.
Thseepriccs are obtainable. First Water Is the best
outsider. The Cup field is reduced to the following:
Commotion, Sir Modred, Sweet William, Stockweil,
Gem, Cunnamulla, Archie, Fiist Water, Calma,
Magnet, Nicholas, Off Colour, Pollio, Dirk Hatter-
aick, Anglesey, Jessie, Kiugsdalo, Santa Claus, Aide-
de-Camp, Martini-Henry, Claptrap, Recovery,
Signor, Koblnoor, Despot, Vernot, Lesbia, Sardius,
Linda, Kathleen Mavourneen, Bourdeaux, Bisbis,
Le Grand, First Demon. My tips for Saturday are:
Melbourne Stakes, Commotion or Sir Modred;
Hotham Handicap, Bristol; Coburg Stakes, Olga
or Sardonyx.
LATE SPORTING.
The gate and booth privileges for the V.B.C.
Spring meeting have realised the satisfactory sum
or £2213, of which the gates brought £590.
I am pleased to learn that the boy M'Auliffe, who
was kicked so severely by Blue and White a few
days ago at Flemington, is recovering as speedily
as can be expected.
Rumour hath it that King's Own has changed
hands, but the purchaser’s name has not trans-
pired, neither is the price made known, so
mysterious are the “ parties interested.”
THE BETTING MARKET.
MARIBYRNONG PLATE.
For this great event of the “ two-year-old year,”
Garfield still holds his position as firm first favour-
ite, at 4 to 1 offered, and any advance on that
figure is quickly closed with. H dene has re-
covered from her severe cold of a few days ago,
and given the touts at Flemington such convincing
proof of her ability to gallop, that she rapidly rose
to 5 to 1, a figure she has received most genuine
support at. Kings Own Is at 8 to 1 off ered; while
so persistent is the support accorded to David,
that 10 to 1 is the best offer to money, the same
price being forthcoming about Buckingham,
Bohemian, Second King and Honeydew. Hundreds
to seven are going about lolanthe and Coir,
The Derby.
Save that Archie Is still hardening in price, there
is very little to tell of on this important event, and
the prices quoted are thus:—Even against \rchie,
4 to 1 v ; Off Colour, 5 to 1 v. Martini-Henry, 7 to 1
v. Sardius, 8 to 1 v. Signor, 12 to 1 v. Vernet, and
20 to 1 each v. Ike and St. Laurence.
The Melbourne Cup.
Calma becomes firmer daily, and at the time of
writing, ino to 12 is the best offer to money. The
friends of Le Grand are so persistent that 10 to I is
barely obtainable, and the others may be quoted
thus:—10 io 1 v. First Demon, 12 to 1 v. Aide-de-
Camp, 100 to 6 v. Nicholas, Despot, Pollio, Stock-
well, and Signor, 100 to 5 v. Commotion and Magnet
(backed to win £35,000 each), Cunnamulla, First
Water, Claptrap. Dirk Hatteraick: 100 to 4 v. Re-
covery and Santa Claus. From 30 to 100 to 1 v.
others.
Enfant terrible: “Say, dad, why’s that
hotel like a bad shilling?” Father: “Why?” E. T.:
“Cans’ you can’t pass It.”
Malone and Donoghue are to run 150
yards, at Glen Innes, for £50, the latter receiving
six yards' start.
Dumas is writing anew play on the subject
of the natural claims which an illegitimate son has
on his father. The dramatist can give the bastard
the show of knowing who his tather is, and the
frail mother that of “getting at” the fellow;
which is just what in real life it is so difficult for
the plaintiff to do in an affiliation case.
We note that the name of the Hon. John
Lucas is on the general committee list of the
Martin Luther demonstration. This should make
the shade of the monk who shook the world “ yelp
some.” Ry the bye, in connection with the Luther
shivoo,” W. J. Foster is about to lecture on “ The
Reformation and Liberty.” We sincerely wish him
the first—as well as some knowledge of the second,
apropos of the Press.
Very few people—even amongst the
Yldishers—know why pork was denied the chosen
people, but we can vouch for the truth of the
following: In the old days Moses and Aaron were
both in treaty for a mob of swine, but Aaron
proved rather too knowing for old Mo, and
succeeded in securing the herd Moses, however,
had his revenge, for he Issued the veto by which
the Jews have since been debarred from indulging
In pork—except on the sly. Fact I Marcus Clarke
used to say that Moses forbade pork to the
Hebrews on the ground that he objected to canni-
balism. But, then, Marcus was a prejudiced man.
It is not generally known that common
brands of cigars—and in many cases good brands—
are flavoured with gum gulac, gumlolu, tonquln
beans, essence of pineapple, valerian root, lauda-
num, on of rose, Jamaica rum, and port wine. A
good many men who get attached to a certain brand
of cigars do not know what chains them. It is the
opium, and they get into the habit of using it un-
consciously. Valerian taken habitually renders the
heart s action feebler, causes hurried respiration,
and may occasion congestion of the kidneys. If
its use is long continued itmay result in paralysis of
the spinal cord. Its action on the tongue and throat
Is more prompt and apparent, frequently causing
epithelium. As to opium, its infernal effects are
well known.
The Athenaeum prints a budget of letters
written by Lady Byron, Mrs Leigh, and Lord
Byron. It is, doubtless, a well-meant attempt to
disinfect the effluvium of the scandal generated
some years since by the publication of a book by
Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe, “vindicating” Lady
Byron, and reflecting severely upon the poet. The
thinks the time has come that the
scandalous legends that have sullied the fair fame
of the poet, his wife, and sister, should he finally
dissipated. Speaking of Harriet Beecher Stowe re-
minds us that, in spite of the fact that she is the
authoress of “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” and is the sister
of the Rev. Henry Ward Beecher, of “ Paroxysmal
Kiss” memory, she still lives, and is a numerous
mother-in-law, and wears corkscrew curls and a
perpetual night-cap.
Mb. DeCodbct Browne (lat Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New south
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 126 Pitt-streot, Sydn y.
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Department undertaken Titles a
speciality.— Advt.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOHF.HOUN 1>,
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs. Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness aud Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens arid gives relief;
a small bottle often cures. Ask for “Aknoud’s’’
and get it: spurious imitations are sometimes
offered.


Won Id-wide Honors to St Jacobs OH.
THE Great German Remedy, ST. JACOBS OIL,
stands honoured with the highest distinction
ever paid to a medicine. This is not only the case
in this country, but abroad everywhere. At the
New Zealand International Exhibition, 1882, it re-
ceived the magnificent First Prize Medal, together
with the Highest Diploma for being, according to
critical tests, the Best Pain Curing and Healing
Remedy known to mankind. In this connection a
few testimonials from distinguished men are here
given as an evidence of the world-wide popularity
of ST, JACOBS OIL.
Opinions of Prominent Australians.
C. C. COHEN, Esq., Mullens-street, Balmain, Syd-
ney.—“ One bottle of St. Jacobs Oil cured me
of a contracted leg of three years’ standing.’
Sworn to before Charles Kahlo, Esq., United
States Consul.
DAVID SCOTT, Esq., of the firm of Messrs. Boyle
and Scott, Cricket and Football DepAt, Mel-
bourne, Victoria.—" St. Jacobs Oil relieved me
at once of pain. I comment it to all footballers
and cricketers.”
W. P. BOOTH, Esq., Thomas-street, Balmain.—
“Nothing like St. Jacobs Oil, in my opinion,
for a valuable remedy.”
A. ADAMS, Esq., City View, Ryde, Sydney, N.S.W.
—“ St. Jacobs Oil cured me of a sprained knee,
and enabled me to walk about in four days.
WALTER HAYNES, Esq., Manager for A. Church-
wood, York-street, Sydney, N.S.W.— *'Acknow-
ledges St. Jacobs Oil as an extraordinary
remedy.” „ _
J. R. DREWETT, Esq., Town Buyer for Messrs.
8. Hoffnung and Co., Pitt-street, Sydney,
N.8.W.—“ Ilook on St. Jacobs Oil as a univer-
sal panacea for all kinds of pain.”
A cash reward of one hundred pounds will b®
paid by the Charles A. Vogeler Company of Rm*
ti-nore, Maryland, United States of America, pro-
prietors of St. Jacobs Oil, or by their accreditee
local representatives, to any person producing
proof to the effect that the testimonials publisneo
by them in regard to St. Jacobs Oil are not striouy
genuine.
St. Jacobs Oil, 1
quers pain. Sol
Medicine Dealers
New South Wales
tions for using in
ELLIOTT BROTHERS. Sydney,
Wholesale Depot for fffew South Wales.
he great German remedy.
I by Druggists, Chemists, and
throughout the world. Prto®_
Half-a-nrown s bottle. Dire®*
eleven languages.
Woman Items
The description given by the Cape papers
of the utter loneliness and desolation with which
the wife and family of Carey are surrounded, has
awakened a chord of sympathy in a few tender
hearts. She took him “tor better or worse,” and
she certainly stood by him, villain that he was,
until the last. A baby in ner arms, the eldest of
seven, aged fifteen, by her side, the district sur-
geon and the assistant magistrate near at hand,
she saw the clay fall on his coffin, and no doubt
shed bitter tears over the remains of him who
earned for himself the hate of all men, ruined her
lie, blighted the prospects of his children, and
left them paupers and despised in a foreign land.
“ Grant, O Lord, that Time, the consoler as well as
t ie avenger, may throw a thick veil over their
past.” This was the district doctor’s prayer at the
open grave. Let no true man fear to sully his soul
by whispering “ Amen.”
The Qoulburu ladies were terr bly dis-
sitistled with the meagre reports of their bazaar
.md fancy fair, which appeared in the local papers,
and perhaps they had some ground of o implalnt,
inasmuch as it was generally admitted that a more
orilliant display of beauty and costume was never
seen in Goulburn. But—
Oh, lafles, you should never let your angry pas-
sions rise—
This line is taken from a book that’s full of truth
and lies—
But never mind, it's all the same, no matter where
it's said.
So never flash such looks of scorn at a reporter’s
head.
You know not what a life is his, so full of trembling
woe,
When to a ball or fancy fair his duty bids him go;
How drops of anguish from his brow fall, as he
starts to write,
And tries to make an angel out of what may bo a
fright.
For instance, at the Goulburn Fair, if he had
written so: —
Miss Blank, of Murrumburrah, was a goddess all
aglow,
As “Erin;” she was dressed in green, all flounced
with duchess lace,
Which lent a charm angelic to her fine Milesian
face.
Miss Nemo, too, of Goulburn, looked as “ Carmen”
quite a queen,
But ne’er was such a Gipsy Lass except in fancy
seen;
A crimson satin skirt she wore, all exquisitely
laced,
And pearls upon her bodice shone, all round her
tiny waist—
Miss Asterisk, of Braldwood, had blue eyes so
dazzling bright,
There never lived an editor could look on them,
and write.
She wore a solferino skirt, with blue silk overlaid,
And silver stars flashed myriad lights all round the
heavenly maid—
Now, if the seventy ladles who were present at the
Fair,
Had all been thus reported, would not all the
country stare ?
And would not all reporters then be looked upon
as kings,
Who could command free rum and milk, and other
liquid things ?
The Victorian Assembly was breathless
the other night, when M. H. Davies began to put
interrogatories to the Premier, and to members in
general, about barmaids. A few members wore
on their way to the refreshment room, thinking
by the look of Davies that he was going to bring
up the subject of road-metal for a culvert,
but when the tallsmanio word “ Barmaid" hit
their tympana, they veered around and waited to
get a look at her. Davies turned his eyes to the
door, and involuntarily every member in the
chamber faced that way. But she wasn’t coming.
What Davies wanted to know, and he didn’t say
whether he would keep the information to him-
self or tell it over the counter when he got out,
was whether the Premier Intended to put down
barmaids, and what members of the House were
In favour of extinguishing them. Shiels smiled
meaningly, and Gaunsou waited to hoar a “ speci-
fic ” reference to the Hebos of Ararat >r Emerald
Hill. The Premier, after a thoughtful pause, rose
and said “I am opposed to the employment of
girls of a certain ago in hotel bars.” Now this was
right enough, and was full of saving qualification.
Even publicans themselves, not to speak of mem-
bers of the House, are opposed to the employ-
ment of girls of “a certain age,” in any capacity
where the freshening influence of beauty is looked
for. But when the Premier made an effort to be
more explicit, ho only said, “ Oh, leave it to
Major Smith. The Major knows all about it.”
THE TEMPTER.
[For The Bulletin.]
She smiled on me such an ineffable smile,
That my heart leaped in wild trepidation,
’Twero lucky that such did not try to beguile
Saint Anthony in his temptation;
Her fairy teeth gleamed in two sweet creamy rows
Be wlxt cheeks with wee dimples besprinkled,
In the shade of a pert little retrousse nose
And a brow never meant to be wrinkled.
As she mildly glanced up with her witching blue
eyes,
She looked so beseechingly pretty,
That I thought of my wife, with the mildest of
sighs,
Sitting up til I come from “the city;”
And the thought set me musing—that Fate rules
so strange,
Whether courtships be short ones or long ones—
Though thro’ scores of nice girls our flirtation
may range,
The most of us marry the wrong ones.
Then, shyly she slipped her soft arm into mine;
Aheml do you think that’s quite proper ?
But she smiled such a smile, Innocently divine,
That I felt too astonished to stop her.
She was one of those creatures, wherever they are,
That a bashful man never can baffle—
She was queen of a stall, at the Fitzroy Town Hall,
And she wanted "just one” for a raffle.
HUGH K. LIPTU3.
Brunswick, Victoria.
• •
A great belle one evening wore—in addi-
tion to her diamond comb, diamond tiara across
her head, diamond necklace, ear-rings, and two
pairs of diamond bracelets—a diamond lizard and
large anchor of the same stones on her low-necked
corsage, a large diamond pin in the middle of the
back, on the waist of her dress, and a diamond
buckle In front, and diamond buckles on her
slippers. The satin dress, covered with point lace,
worn with those jewels, was low in the neck, and
had no sleeves. To a rival beauty, who sat near her,
at supper that evening, she remarked: “I feel so
chilly, what shall I do ?” “ Oh, I don’t see what
more you can do,” answered the latter, “ except to
put on another pair of diamond ear-rings.”....
Says a Honolulu paper, in describing a wo-
man’s smile: “Her rich red lips parted, and
there flashed upon the landscape two rows of
beautiful white teeth. Slowly her mouth opened
wider and wider. Deeper grew the wrinkles in her
bronze cheeks. Brighter danced the sunbeams in
bereyes, until a stray ray, darting through the foli-
age of a i overhanging bough, Illuminated the deep
cavern of her mouth, bringing into view the back
of her head. Then seeing us gazing intently upon
her, she shut her jaw, and darkness fell upon the
scene. But then the islanders are as noted for
warm imagination as their home is for tropical
beauty....A well-founded statement is going the
rounds to the effect that Princess Beatrice has
been engaged by the proprietor of a prominent
monthly journal to furnish a number of sketches
tor publication.... Mrs. Bonanza Mackay is sup-
posed to be the American lady who appeared at a'
recent Paris ball in a costume of white kid, fitting
I;-4 young married couple announce
the birth of their eldest son. This is suggestive of
courage, resolution, and business.... The strongest
desire of woman is to be desired....It is the saga-
cious remark of a keen observer, and he offers it
to the travelling public, that you can gener-
ally tell a newly married couple at the din-
ner table by the indignation of the husband
when a fly alights on the wife’s butter....
They sat down to a game of cards. She: “ What
are we going to play for?” He: “Anything you
like. She: “ Let us play for a velvet jacket, dear 1
if you lose, I shall have the choosing of it, and if
i \°* G J ou shall.”—Queen Marguerite of Italy
holds her receptions on quite a democratic scale.
Instead of the persons being led to the queen to
be presented, she herself goes around the room,
giving her band to each one, accompanied by a few
pleasant words of greeting. Unlike her husband,
the king, she speaks English fluently... A fashion
been originated in London by one or two
titled ladies of issuing cards for small and early
dances bearing the words “ no supper.”.... At Lady
Holland s garden party, one of the largest of the
season. Lady Archibald Campbell drew all eyes by
appearing in a divided skirt and red boots. It was
not regarded with liking....Roof parties have
been started, but only a few houses can manage
them. ...A N.Z. paper lately had an article headed:
How to Woo a Woman.” It is the printing of
articles such as this that gives ordinary people the
idea that editors know every thing.... Worth has
revived what he calls the “grande celnture,”
which is a very wide sash round the hips or waist
line, arranged with puffed ends so as to in-
crease the bouffant tournure. Fat women don’t
disp ay any anxiety The Tdmut Times editor,
thinks that woman should be allowed to assume
any position which she can sustain with ability and
credit. He means that she should be allowed to
do anything which she can do better than her hus-
band. If some editors acted on this theory, they
would allow their wives to edit their papers for
them.... visitor: “And what are you going to
wear for the Cup, dear?” Our Doctors Wife:
Oh I Rhubarb and magnesia.” The other day-
out by Armidale somewhere—a young girl about
to be married lost herself in the bush. When
found, it was discovered that she had all the time
been walking in a ring.... New Paris fashion for
full dress is to have one shoulder bare... .Jewels
worth £30,000 on the head of an elephant. Such
was the sight an English lady saw in Hyderabad.
Which sho ws how much better it is to be an ele-
phant m Hyderabad than a virtuous beauty in,
say, Antananarivo—The result of teaching a girl
with an average voice to sing, is to make her know
too much to sing at church, and too little to be
useful in opera A married lady was telling her
younger companion, as they looked over Govett’s
Leap, “If you take my advice, you’ll jump over
there rather than marry.” “ If the jump would
get me a husband, I’d do both,” replied the desper-
ate girl — During the performance of Callender's
Minstrels at the Baldwin Theatre. San Francisco,
Sept. 8, the marriage of Miss Emma Louise Hyers (of
the Hyers Sisters) and George Freeman, leader of
the minstrel brass band, took place in full view of
the audience. “Standing-room only” was early
displayed, and floral tributes wore numerous. A
banquet was served on the stage after the per-
formance, for three hundred guests. The proceeds
of the performance on that evening were for the
benefit of the bride and groom.
The Melbourne Daily Telegraph, as
people now know, is the property of very holy
speculators, who run in the Interest alike of piety
and pennies. But it is not generally known that
the Aub was originally started on the same “lay,”
and that its opening Jubilation was presided over
by the Anglican Bishop of the period—Dr. Perry;
but within a few months it had passed into profane
hands, and its editorial guns, under the direction
of a staunch agnostic, Ebenezer Syme, were
vigorously turned against its baptlsers and
sponsors, its godfathers and godmothers. “ It
remains to be seen,” remarks Charles Bright, “if
Melbourneites are changed since that day, and are
now disposed to take their paragraphs and their
paternosters, their sub-leaders and their sermons
mixed up together.”
Mr. John L. Dow yearns to have native
Australians take a more prominent place in the
world of colonial letters and in the science of
colonial government. It is not wealth that
ennobles a country, but the shining and glorious
lives of its children. It is not victories gained by
Kruppguns, Nordenfeldts, or Martini-Henries, that
send its name down buzzing through the after-
time, but the triumphs in the field cf mind won by
the detextrous wagging of the tongue or the
cunning skill of the sagacious scribe. Therefore,
Dow yearns. It is therefore, also that John L. Dow
sits in the Victorian Assembly; and it is therefore,
also, that he goes about so regularly with
his knuckles inked. Looking round the colo-
nies at the present time, it doesn’t seem
that Government and letters could he very well
run without considerable assistance, for an-
other score or so of years, from the natives of
effete Europe and other alien climes. Indeed, if
the majority of the present yearners for colonial
precedence be types of what the future will pro-
duce in multiple, it requires no seer to forecast
that Government and letters in Australia will run
blindfolded into watery dribble and greasy blather.
Yet the Dows will yearn; and, when voices come
over the seas, and the refrains of Iliads strike our
shores, the Dows will stir their jugfuls of Assembly
porridge, and groan out their stanzas on “Crops”
until the angels will turn in the feathers of their
tails, and cry “Dow, Dorcas, Dosls, DamnandusI”
They will cry other things, also; but, unless some
Englishman tells the meaning, the Dows will never
know.
Suffering at the steak —Living at a cheap
boarding-house.
A long tramp—A tall vagrant. New name
for matrimony—Twoicide. Done brown—Toast.
A scapegrace—A man late at dinner.
Noah’s Ark, it’s true, has been found on
Mount Ararat. In one of the bunks was found a
bit of Greece where Ham had been stored.
A correspondent writes to ask us when we
think David Buchanan will learn to hold his
tongue. This Is easy: when he gets lockjaw.
The Kemmistry of the Sunday-school
picnic.anaiysis reveals that this favourite religious
institution is Identical in composition with “The
Holy Pair” (of Ilab. Burns), and that many Jobs,
on the occasion of a S.S. picnic. begun, “ may end
in houghmagandy some fther day. ’
It ought to be known far and wide that the
Freeman's Journal had a review last week of the
“ Poets and Poetry of Munster.” The only notable
poet of Munster that we ever knew was the late Phil
M’Carroli—and he was a munster. But. treating it
seriously, what is Munster poetry ? Is it the Jlegant
twirl of shillelagh? The metre of that verse is
generally six feet—stretched upon the earth, “ as
purty a corpse as ever eyes looked on.”
Baok-blook oonvlvlaliats when they want
half-and-half,” now call for “ a new Lana B11L”
The Wesleyan bosses have sent home for
seven young clergymen—with seven old ideas,
stipulated, presumably.
Somewhat mixed. —“ So you’ve lost your
Lillet, Donald ?” “Ach, the deil may care then.
When the tae door shuts, the tither closes, and the
Lord’ll just hae to provide.”
Overseer to shepherd, lately from the
Hlelans : - “Well, Donald, when do you want to
come in to the Home station ?” Answer : “ Aweel,
if I’ll no go in the morrow, I’ll be to go in the day
afore that.”
Mr. M'Arthur’s uninjured eye has not be-
come sympathetically affected.” “ The Begum of
Stinkomalee has been Invested with the Royal
Order of the Washing-tub.” This is the kind of
cable they send us now-a-days.
At Forbes, James Clark, a respectable,
educated man, who had been brought to poverty
through an accident some years back, which pre-
vented him from working, died in the local hospi-
tal, and was burled, as you bury a dog, without
any funeral service over his grave, at which stood
one solitary mourner:—
But, poor, neglected, dead James Clark,
It matters naught to thee
That priests thy exit did not mark,
With aimless mummery;
God will not think you one whit worse,
Because you lack’d their charm— the purse!
We never thought there was anything
essentially suggestive of orthodox piety in shear-
ing and jumbucks, but the following notice from
a Forbes paper, has a very holy and reverent ring
about it' “Shearing will D.Y. commence at Moura,
on Thursday, November 1st.” Old shearers, falling
back on experience, will be inclined to wickedly
construe the D.Y. interpolation into “ Drink Will-
ing.” It’s pretty evident that only the most or-
thodox Sabbatarian need “hump his drum” to
Moura.
The Double Bay regatta is always far and
away the best suburban aquatic meeting of the
season, and the sport on Saturday last was up to
the usual standard. With regard to the umpire’s
boat, on which we travelled, we cannot do better
than quote Monday morning’s Rum, which says
the arrangements on board the Mary “ were of a
peculiarly agreeable character.” We also dropped
across an unlimited supply of their namesake. The
handicap race for open boats, 20 feet and upwards,
fell to the Sea Breeze, and the victory of the
owner, Mr. Harry Prince, seemed a popular one, as
he received an ovation worthy of his name from
the flagship. During the afternoon, Mr. Webster,
who rowed with the Victorian crew in the recent
eight-oar contest, performed the best bit of pot
hunting on record. He pulled with F. Brewer
in the maiden and Junior double scull races, and
took both. The Sirocco won the all-yachts; the
Irelands pulled off the residents’ double sculls; the
Wingadee won the all half-decked boats handicap;
the 16ft. dingy race fell totheOuida; Young Victor
won the 14ft. dingy race; C. Messenger (20n>.) won
the all-comers light skiff handicap, B. Triokett
(45fi>.), second; the Latona won the canvas dingy
race; Johnson and Gaden had next thing to a row-
over for the senior double sculls; G. and H. Mortl-
more won the resident cricketers’ race; and the
Esplegle won the man-of-war cutter race.
Catarrh of the Bladder.— Stinging irritation,
inflamation, all Kidney and similar Complaint,s
cured by “ Buchu-palba.” Moses, Moss & Co,
Sydney, General Agents.
A Stampede.
Listen unto us a while, “ ~ » ■**
Maid and man I
We will try to make you smile, j *
If we can.
Well, it was a week ago,
Maybe more.
We thought city life was slow,
And a bore.
So we girded up our trunk,
And we fled—
We had then a visage shrunk
As the dead. j
Native wines had done their work.
White and red,
And the future, mirk and murk,
Loomed ahead.
Far too fast our life had been,
Far too fast,
And—you’ll know, sirs, what we mean—
Couldn’t last.
What were women, what was wine
Worth to us,
If for freedom we did pine ?—
Not a cuss.
Therefore, for a slight surcease,
We, sirs, went
To the country—home of peace
And content I
Where we’d skip and ruralize
With the lambs;
Whore folk live on apple-pies,
Also jams.
All daylong; and when it’s hot
Each one “ sups ”
Morning dew from—guess now, what I—
Buttercups.
Where each little show is great.
Full of wit,;
And the rustic Fourth Estate
Worships it.
This was just our dart, you see,
Just our dart;
So as lecturer did we
Make a start.
Opened in a gloomy hall,
Like a vault;
Flung the entrance wide for all.
Blind and halt.
This was at Newcastle, we
Should have said—
Where we’ll go again, maybe—
When we’re dead.
And the title of our “pitch”
It was queer,
“ Culture of the Future,” which
You should hear.
A CRAVEN.
Lion Tamer’s Wife (scornfully): “Yah! you coward, you daren’t come out! ”
What was, think you, after that
In the hall ?
Drunken sailor and a cat —
That was all.
Then we from that place half mad
Made a start—
The reception that we had
Broke our heart.
Now that we are back we wis
We will stop-
No mere lectures while there is
Wood to chop.
L’Ombra.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Your arms are now folded, your brain is dead,
O Bob, my Bob I
And I am here rocking a tortured head,
Bob, my Bob I
I believed you of old when the cold chill light
Of the new Truth dawned, as your rhythmic
tongue
Read through the pages of knowledge and sung
Of the death of the dead, of the blinded sight—
O Bob, my Bob!—
Of the sleep of the soul In an endless night!
But ’tis easy to say that that light has dawned,
.... O Bob, my Bob!
When no one we love has gone Beyond,
Bob, my Bob!
But if we oan’t think of a sweet blue sky,
Of a morning of freshness, a night of repose,
Without seeing the eyes and the lips of those
We have loved and lost, ah, others, as I
O Bob, my Bob 1
Will believe that we live when our bodies die!


Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREA L' LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favouriti remedy. We all suffer more
or less from liver lomplalnt, thereby hindering
other organs from (ulfllling their functions. Sot
the liver in order by taking the above remedy, and
heart, lungs, brain, and stomach will unite in
graceful chorus.
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The true invigorate r. If your vital forces are
depressed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, nr a presentiment of coming
disaster, your liver Is unequal to its work. To
obviate au these syra ntoms there is no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABRAHAM’S FILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion of
the maladies and ailments attacking the human
frame are really due to a disordered liver. Set this
organ in order and health returns as if by magic.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are imitations, ask for ABRAHAM’S
PILLS. See that each box, by whomsoever sold,
bears the inventor’s name and trade mark. The
Laboiatory,
434 George Street, Sydney.
The federal bank of Australia
(Limited)
Incorporated under Aot of Parliament.
CAPITAL, £1000,000 ; SUBSCRIBED, £666,000.
_ _ Directors :
__ Thellpn. w A Brodrlbb, M.L.C., Chairman.
d Es 3 - ’ J-E ' T. Humphery, Baq„
Robert Hudson, Esq. M.P.
„ J. Y. Mills, Esq., J.P.
Manager ; P. 8. Macdermott.
Accountant: John Docker.
Solicitors : Messrs. Robertson, Fisher, and Half e.
Temporary Banking House. 867 Oeorge-street,
North, with branch at tne Haymarket.
Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies
and is Europe.
Highest Tidies of interest given on Deposits, and
all usual Banking business transacted without
delay to customers.
F, 8. MACDERMOTT, Manager.
\
V/
I®
%
I
W VISIT R. BURGIS* NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 176 PITT STREET,
FOR
CHEAPNESS, FIT, AND WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-'
part ef
37S?S 10 •"
WORKING C L A 8
GENERA ME YOUR OWN GAS.
Apply to
8 B 8.
D.
KEELY AND CO.,
71 Ooutoura-street, Sydney.
DWHl6 M P G £*' Lamps, and
rnrw. Comfort, Economy, and Safety.
Mr. on **“«. of the Patent Portable Gas
Co., had ckar ff e ®f lighting of the hall and
supper rooms at tne Hay Demonstration, and the
lighting of Croydon Station. He undertakes to
teach his customers in three minutes the mode of
lighting.
A liberal discount will be given to storekeepers
on remittances per orders, and goods forwarded
with quick despatch. Orders and remittances to
be sent to the above address. No orders attended
to without remittance.
LIST OF PRICES:
4 Light Gasalier £3 10 0
3 do. do 2 10 0
2 do. do 1 15 0 to £2 6 0
2 Light Brass Table Lamps .. 5 10 0
1 do. do. do 2 10 0
Brass Bracket Lamps, burn 16
hours 2 0 0
Wall Bracket Lamps, do. .. 0 17 6
Globes and Fittings .. ..0 6 0 each
Fluid, in cases, 8gallons.. .. 0 2 6 gal.
1 gal. fluid gives a light equal to 12s worth kero-
sene. instructions as to the mode of lighting sent
to clients with despatch of goods.
Goods sent to all parts of the Colonies.
THE HARWOOD
Fibre Chair Seating,
viz.:
Possessing all the qualities of a perfect sea
Strength, Durability, Ease, Beauty, 01
and Cheapness.
THIS CHAIR SEAT is made from the strongest
known fibres and a perfectly waterproof
cement, and after fifteen years’ constant use, we
can speak positively as to its merits, ft cannot
split or check, neither ■
1 will exposure to sun or rain
Awarded Gold Medal at the late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
For RE-SEATING It is unrivalled. In every
house, store and office, are chairs with seats broken.
Any person can re-seat and make as good as new a
chair that is otherwise worthless, at a very trifling
expense.
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE FOR HOME USB.
Agents Wanted in Evert District.
Prom £3 to £5 a week can be made by any smart
man or boy in his own neighbourhood,
NICHOLS & CO,,
GENERAL AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
82 CLARENCE STREET.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
Stock, Station, and Genera! Com-
mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
TONIC NERVINE
REGISTERED.
A SAFE, certain, and speedy cure for Nervous
and General Debility, and all complaints that
spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Nervous Headache, and Toothache, Indigestion,
Loss of Appetite, General Prostration, &c. By It#
■" ' " at once removes all
its richness as a Ohe-
gives vigour to the
„ „ Agents—
BiiiiiOTT Brothers, and E. Prosser & C®.
W. H. PALING,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
;t--v
EASY TERMS SYSTEM IS? INSTRUMENT.
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC,
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LBDIARD’8 SHORT HORN BOURBON.—Th
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and th<
American gentlemen; ■will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftenei
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
14 and 16 Spring 1 Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ys in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AKD
BARTHENWA R E
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYBN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
PAPERHANGING S!
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSERY PAPERS.
CEILING CENTRES.
FIGURES, SCENES, *0.
i Imported by
Alexander Borthwick,
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &c.
Atlas Foundry & Engineer-
ing Company,
HT HAY STREET SYDNEY.
Engineers, Boilermakers and Shipbuilders,
Iron and Brassfounders, Coppersmiths and
Millwrights.
The above firm are prepared to undertake con-
tracts for the manufacture of Marine and Station-
ary Engines, Boilers, and Girder Work, Quarts-
crushlng, Sawmill, Sheep-washing, Mining, Sugar-
mills, and all other descriptions of Machinery, with
latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for metal.
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
t3T- THE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco of the Age I
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The only Tobacco combining Excellence of Quality
with Economy In Price.
iW Each PLUG is STAMPED with the word
“EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain it.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
Saywell’s TdIiucd Go., Uni.
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
And can be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse,
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as Its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO
Registered according to Aet of Parliament, to pro-
tect the public against spurious and worthless
Imitations.
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
W. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.,
THE BEST MAKERS IN THE WORLD,
AT EXTRAORDINARY LOW PRICES.
W. H. PALING,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OP NEW SOUTH WALES.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & CO.,
u, mb, ui m nuns,
3S7 GEORGE STREET,
66 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ Tools, Pounders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery, Coach
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricultural
Implements.
ENOIMES.
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
o
PUMPS.
Special Steam, Centrifugal, and
Force and Lift.
BOILERS.
Vertical and Horizontal
MACHINERY.
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting and Screwing
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY.
Saw Benches. Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret Saws. Genera
Joiners’ and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam-power.
English and American Agricultural Implements.
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Horse Hoes, Land Rollers, Horse
Rakes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers and Shelters, Threshing Machines.
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
Coach Builders’ Sundries.—Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and Furnishings, Varnishes, and
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours.
Large Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ; Galvanized, Corrugated,
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled I Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies.
Woolpacks, Sheep Shears, Oils, Raddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing and Dam Making
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Locks, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Carpenters’ Tools.
Particulars and Priee Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND CO.,
397 George Street, Sydney.


Nowhere perhaps has the dentist's art obtained
such high excellence as in Sydney. Certainly we
are in no sense behind any other city. Visitors to
Sydney might, to test this, visit the establishment
of Messrs. Adolphe Gabriel and Company. 18 Wyn-
yard Square, two doors from Pfahlert’s Hotel
Here the manufacture of every essential in the
Srofeesioe is carried on. At the rear of the surgery
i a compact little factory where all the requisites
for supplying every dental defect in the human
mouth are made. Messrs. Gabriel and Co. (whose
only address is as above) are always pleased to
show their specimens of artificial teeth to those
interested. There being two Arms of the same
name in the Square, patients will oblige by paying
particular attention to the Christian name, Aaofphe.
end the number, 18. two doors from Pfahlerf'
Hotel.— Aijvt.
SNAPS.
Martin Luther is to be qua-ter-oentena-
rated next month. Well, we’ve not the slightest
objection. He was a rare-plucked one; and no
more a theological Lutheran than the Chj-lst was a
theological sectarian Christian, We beg to suggest
that on the 12th proximo all good fellows recite, at
east once, the Thackerayan 44 Credo ” :—
44 Who loves not wine, woman, and sony.
He is a fool his whole life lony / ”
Who refuses this our Credo,
And who will not sing as we do,
Were he holy as John Knox,
I’d pronounce him heterodox;
I’d pronounce him heterodox,
And from out our congregation,
With a solemn comminatlon.
Banish quick
The heretick
Who will not sing as Luther sang,
As Doctor Martin Luther sang,
44 Who loves not wine, woman, and song.
He is a fool his whole life long I”
♦ * *
Now, ye unholy vagabonds and scoffing
rascals, throw your ears back and listen. In a
certain Northern town dwells a lowly mortifler of
the flesh, who (strange, isn’t it ?) has developed a
phenomenal corporation, and who, though he ad-
mits (still more strange) being the possessor of a
very considerable banking account, has, for a
follower of the Loard, a most unaccountable
penchant for threepenny-bits. Strolling along the
footpath one evening about dusk, his reverence’s
eye hills on what appears to be a threepenny
Here’s a fix I He has not been able to roach below
his knees for the last decade; but no matter. Alter
casting several furtive glances up and down the
street, and muttering a short prayer, be essays the
task. No result, though ; only a heap nearer an
apoplectic fit than the coin. But want of perse-
verance is not among his failings ; so, walking
around the prize once more, a holy" determination
stamped upon his brow, he makes one mighty
effort, and clutches—now smile, ye fiends—a tin-
tag 1
♦ * *
After mature consideration, the Kerang
(Vic.) Branch of the Australian Natives’ Associa-
tion has decided that all Pacific islands south of
the Equator must bo annexed right away. The
decision was communicated to Mr. Service, who
entirely concurred with it, and complimented the
young men on their public spirit and broad, liberal
views. We are not told why the young tailor who
initiated the Kerang movement, and obtained a
majority of one in a full house of three, confined
himself to 44 islands” and to the 44 South Pacific.”
Surely, room could be found in his scheme for a
continent or two, or at least for a few peninsulas.
It is a fact, not at all creditable to the Anglo-Saxon
race, that nearly all the peninsulas in the world
worth having are in the hands of foreigners.
South America, Spain, Scandinavia, and the Crimea
will at once occur to the geographical student.
The Russians have a dozen of i hem, and were
lately reported to be in treaty for Kamschatka,
in which to intern men who were stupid enough
to ask for representative government. At the
next meeting of the Kerang Branch of the Aus-
tralian Natives’ Association, the subject of penin-
sulas should certainly be brought up.
♦ * *
There is a Sydney photographer into
whose studio the people over the way obtain a
comprehensive view. Seeing the ladies attend
very frequently, curiosity induced people to stand
at the tell-tale window, when the artist was ob-
served placing his clients in position, and kissing
them to keep them quiet while he attended to the
camera. We publish this in the interest of the
artist and his fair supporters. Should they not
take warning, they may wake some morning to
find themselves famous—to find curious crowds
looking at their photographs in Sydney shop win-
dows—to find that the moment chosen for repre-
sentation was the very one when the 44 mugging ”
was at its best.
* * ♦
A lady celebrated in Spiritualistic circles
is amongst us. For fifteen years Miss Catherine E.
Wood held the office of 44 connecting link” between
the worlds of matter and spirit. This was in Eng-
land. She is now in N.8. Wales, having come by
the John Elder, three weeks ago; and, according to
the Sydney Liberal, Mr. H. Gale. 433 Oxford-
street, Paddington, is her agent. Mr. 8. Defries
and other gentlemen in this city appear to have
witnessed her materialising power in the old
country. Miss Wood seems from this to be a
Eowerful medium. We have not heard that she
as added anything to the sum of human know-
ledge—as the spirits she has hitherto 44 materialised”
were either those who tautalisingly told us what
we already knew (and told it badly), or else those
who, from their tendency to 44 romancing” when
here below, were naturally looked upon with sus-
picion when they ventured on any detailed account
of their present life. We have passed through
many odd experiences. Perhaps the oddest of all
was sitting for a couple of hours listening to
a thin, peevish-looking, dowdy little woman
pouring out a stream of—oh 1 such unutterable
44 hog’s-wash 1 ” regarding life in spirit-land. For
two mortal hours she stood there with half- closed
eyes, while white-haired old men drank in her
maunderings, and went away convinced that
they had obtained a gracious peep behind the veil
separating us from the Infinite. Through her
Shakespeare, Moliere, and Pope had spoken,
but they were not the poets of our youth.
They had fallen off a good deal, spoke with a pro-
nounced patois, and smelt strongly of onions.
The experiences we have passed through in the
44 seance ” line would have been simply invaluable
to David Hume in writing his 44 Natural History of
Religion.” Two men visit a strange country and
bring away totally different impressions of the
same scenes. Two attends 44 seance,” and one sees
the room tilled with uncorporeal beings, while the
other sees nothing but a circle of dull people drink-
ing in the incoherent babblings of mental exalta-
tion. So the sceptic comes away with the ques-
tions on hi* Ups; 44 Can these people see whatt®
me is Invisible ? Has Spiritualism a foundation in
fact, or is it the grossest, vulgarest, most trans-
parent fraud since Jacob cheated his father out
the blessings intended for his wild brother ?”
♦ * *
The Rev. D. Joiles-Hamer has made certain
—very certain—statements about the morals of the
Juveniles attending Victorian State Schools, which
go to prove that the rising generation is certainly
not being trained up according to instructions re-
ceived from our old friend, Solomon. It the Rev.
H.’s advices are only half true, there must be a
large number of little girls attending these schools
who have forgotten the feminine art of blushing;
and, as for the boys—well, in comparison with
them, their fathers are quite simple young fellows.
In arranging the different sexes in Victorian State
Schools, it would be as well for the authorities to
follow the toper’s rule, and— 44 never mix.”
SIMPLE CHILDHOOD.
The spread of education
(From stories that, we fear,
Have far too much foundation)
Increases year by year;
Bach little cherub chatters—
In language somewhat low—
Of sundry little matters
It 44 didn’t ought ” to know.
We learn from revelations,
Quite anything but nice,
That they’ve passed examinations,
With honours, too—in Vice;
And forced into believing
The things the parson said.
Bach mother’s heart is grieving
O’er Innocence, long fled.
Alas, for happy childhood 1
’Tis altered irom of yore;
Now, rompings in the wild-wood
Arc innocent no more;
For, there, the 44 tree of evil ”
Has firmly taken root,
And many a little devil
Has eaten of its fruit.
FROM SIR H Y P-K-BS IN ENGLALD TO
SIR J N ROB SON IN SYDNEY.
(An Intercepted Letter).
At last I’m in England; but, oh, what a fall
Since last I was welcomed by nobles and all!
Not a Prince or a Prelate—not even a Peer
Seems to know—seems to think—seems to care I
am here!
No Queen sends her carriage—no Gladstone stands
by;
Even Derby is absent, and Samuel shy.
How different—how different, oh, Jack, to the day
When last to this Isle my great feet took their way;
When Princes smiled on me — when Royalty
blushed;
When I spoke, the great heart of the nation was
hushed.
When the Duke of Argyle, and when Sutherland’s
Peer
Lent to my soft nothings the willingest ear.
When I bearded the nobles who banqueted me—
When I told them they’d nothing w« cared much
to see;
That our learning was greater, our laws more pro-
found
Than anything living in England’s own ground—
Oh, Jack, how I made all the sycophants wince;
Every one, from the Premier to the poor Sailor
Prince.
But now! only think, I’ve to drive in a “growler ;”
I’m kept waiting my turn by both Samuel and
Fowler.
I board by the week in a little pair back,
Am neither lent carriage, or handsom, or hack;
I call upon Wales—but that Prince, with a shout,
Desires the tall flunkies to say he is out;
I leave my sma 1 pasteboard on Britain’s great
Queen,
But she, too, gives her orders 44 she cannot be
seen.”
1 come pretty low, and so call upon Teck;
He looks me all o’er—with a nod and a beck,
And a kind of a sort of a royalty stare,
Says, 44 No go, Sir ’Enery ; you’re not what you
were!”
Oh, Jack, this is trying—but, still, I have been
On intimate terms with fair Belgium’s Queen;
I’ve held her soft hand, I have felt her soft sighs,
/have gazed with intensity into her eyes.
I have had my day—but you’ve never yet known
What it is to be shaking a hand from the throne:
You only can fancy—aye, barely can guess—
To have been more than something, and now to be
less.
But, farewell to my glory—’twas perchance but a
dream
That I’ll murmur for ever where 44 Murmurs my
Stream.”
Vanity Fair do votes a whole page to
“ London Tradesmen.” By “ tradesmen ” it means
those vulgar people—insignificant from an aristo-
cratic standpoint—who own palatial emporiums
and employ hundreds of hands. Vanity tells a
story of how her Grace the Duchess of Westmin-
ster called into a linendraper’s shop and “ bought
some small thing ” —possibly a pair of garters.
Finding, when she was about half-way home, that
she really wanted a “rig-out ” for her seventh
footman, she walked back. The shop-walker re-
ceived her with a superb bow, and—but we shall
give Vanity’s words: “ 4 Who served your Grace ?’
asked the middle-aged Liberal Cabinet Minister
who presided over the outside of the counters.
4 Was it the gentleman with the curly hair and the
light moustache? 4 The Duchess, who had a
pretty wit, looked at him for a moment in
aristocratic astonishment, and replied, 4 No, it
was not the gentleman with the curly hair;
it was the nobleman with the bald head.’
Brought up as her Grace was, and possessing, like
most aristocrats (except those who have visited
Australia, and whom we have found about the
most mutton-headed creatures—barring the anthro-
poids—ever let loose on unoffending society) a
“pretty wit, 44 the fact of an animal who had to work
for his living calling another animal of the same
genus a 44 gentleman, 44 must have appeared irre-
sistibly funny, and quite justified her ladyship’s
exercise of her playful fancy. And yet it is not so
easy to point out how the counter-jumper was
wrong. Of course, he might have said, 44 Who
sarved you, marm ? Was it that knock-kneed,
crooked-eyed, splay-footed, lantern-jawed skunk
dangling his hoofs over the counter there; or was
it that little bandy-legged, paralysed, hare-lipped
galoot counting tne shirt-buttons in the corner ?"
But it is possible that her Grace’s 44 aristocratic
astonishment 44 would not prevent her striking for
her carriage in a lino asstraightasthe hypothonuse
of a right-angled triangle.
♦ * *
Bishop Barker’s will was proved the other
day ; so was Archbishop Vaughan’s. The latter
ecclesiastic left all his property, real and personal
(with the exception of £300 to 44 my dear and de-
voted friend, Dr. Gillett, to whom I have pre-
viously given nothing 4 ) tor “religious, educa-
tional, and charitable purposes in N.S.W.” Bishop
Barker, on the other hand, left all his real and
personal property, whatsoever and wheresoever,
44 to his dear wife, Mary Jane Barker.” Now,
Mary Jane (who, by the way, is young and pretty,
and is understood to have been christened by the
right reverend, festive and venerable gentleman,
who, after finding a Scriptural precedent in the
case of King David, got married in his old age)—
Mary Jane we were going to say, was tolerably
rich before she became 44 Mrs. Bishop Barker.”
Not only did the good bishop fail to leave a red
cent to any friend or charity in that part of the
Lord’s vineyard in which he 44 laboured” for 30
years or so, but he actually saddled his successor
with a debt of £3500, which he alleged he had ex-
pended, in addition to the subscriptions of the
faithful, in improving Bishopsthorpe—this debt to
be paid by Dr. Barry, in five annual instalments of
£500 each, to Mary Jane aforesaid. The executors
of the will are Mrs. Barker and her brother—who
both live in England. So that even our lawyers
are debarred from the pickings. They're getting
up a memorial (a post-mortem testimonial)
agitation for the erection of a 44 Barker ” Hall.
44 The best memorial,” writes a churchman, 44 that
we can put up to the memory of a bishop who
allowed his will to offer so suggestive a contrast to
that of the other prelate mentioned, will be to
Inscribe his will (and its amount) on his tomb-
stone. Why, Bishop Barker didn’t even send us a
penny in aid of the school at Waverley for the
■daughters of poor clergymen, in which Mrs.
Barker (I mean tue first Mrs Barker), according
to his oft-repeated public statement, took so deep
an interest.” [We want to hear both sides of this
question, and are ready to give Dean Cowper half
a column of space next week for a reply. And if
his reverence doesn’t succeed in removing from
the public mind the impression which at present
exists with regard to the real character of the late
Bishop Barker, this memorial movement won’t
prosper in N.S.W.— Ed. B.]
• * * *
The Wasp man thus addresses Henry Ward
Beecher, the typical money-raking ecclesiastic of
America :—
44 What! Beecher, you a follower of Christ,
Who for His very vesture would have diced ?
You upon whom the passion-drops unfelt,
Unheeded, would have fallen the while you dealt
In seats about the cross’s foot—each pew
Rated according to its point of view ?
What Christ is this you follow ? Sure not He
Who walked the stony ways of Gallilee
And had not where to lay His weary head—
Who (’tis so written in your Book, sir) said:
• Sell all thou hast and give unto the poor
And follow me.’ Pine preparation for a tour!
I think that you explained the other night
That gems and jewels give you good delight.
And that you take them wheresoe’er you go,
To sate your eyes with their inspiring glow.
So now we know, though one would have sufficed,
Two serviceable ways to follow Christ.
If in this matter I might have a word
I’d crave your leave, sir, to suggest a third:
Neither to sell, nor take along, your loot,
But get by plunder what you need en route.
Thus all that’s portable in many lands
Were dedicated, where it lies or stands,
To holv use by laying on of hands.
“ I raise no question here of holiness;
Which is the wickeder I cannot guess—
To drink of burgundy or drink of mud—
To dine upon a capon or a spud.
I know not if the soul takes greater hurt
From silks and cleanliness or rags and dirt.
If it is saintlier—as some, no doubt,
Believe—to stay in debt than to get out,
I know not why ’tis so. Save Christ alone
Bach curses all conditions but his own;
But, Beecher, if your own’s the righteous habit,
The Saviour was as crazy as a rabbit.
“ Was it from you the awful sentence fell
Condemning all the rich to endless hell ?
Munching their meats ’twere but uncivil wit
To prophesy themselves upon the spit.
By your hand wielded, did the biting scourge
The money changers from the Temple urge ?
Did your foot overturn their dirty pelf ?
You’ve always kept a table there yourself.
Creation, revelation, heaven and hell—
All that the Bible gave, you kept to sell,
And brought so rapidly your wares to bloek
An airy hope is all you’ve left in stock.
Words and more words make up your empty
creed—
Your God is Mammon and your gospel Greed.
But still you rear the sign that once enticed
The pious idiot your goods who priced
And bought: the trade-mark of the cross of
Christ.”
The Victorian Legislative Assembly is even
holier than we thought it was. Mr. M’Intyre has
informed the world that “ there is not a gambler
in this House; we all regard gambling as an abo-
mination.” So, the malicious people who state
that the House is full of “ sweeps,” are not worthy
of credence—we never thought they were. Why,
one glance at the vacant countenances of some of
the 44 three -hundred -a - yearers ” is sufficient to
convince the Intelligent observer that they never
speculate on anything—not even in their minds.
From Truth:—“The Queen, shortly after
her arrival at Balmoral, on Saturday, drove to
Crathie, and passed an hour at the grove or tne
late John Brown.” From the World:—
Majesty has driven to the kirkyard at Cratnie
several times for the purpose of visiting J0°“
Brown’s grave, and has also inspected the house
which had been built for him at the Crathie end o
the Balmoral grounds. A deep gloom hangs ore
the Castle, and the grief of the tenants ana re-
tainers at Brown’s demise has been J
the intimation that the various entertammen
which are usually given at Balmoral m i
autumn will not take place this year. No BU
cessor’ has been appointed to Brown. ar
outdoor servants on the Balmoral estate,
ordered to wear black on their arms, as mourn »
for John, whose grave in the kirkyard at tro
has just been enclosed with handsome iron
while the large monument of gray granite— __
was ordered of an Aberdeen firm by the yue
is ready tojbe put up. The inscription
it was written by Her Majesty, and describesi
as ‘the devoted and faithful personal atte u
and beloved friend of Queen Victoria, ana j
with the words, ‘ Well done, thou good anaita
servant : thou hast been faithful over . s
things; I will make thee ruler over njanj „
Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord. tnia. be
verently remarks Mr. Yates, “sounds as tuous
Queen’s prerogative extended to post-mw .
wards.” Society says;—“The first visit P A t be
the Queen after her arrival at Balmoral was y er
tomb of John Brown, at Crathie, ti' ne *
Majesty remained for a very considerao pft .
Loyal subjects of every shade of trusted
thised with the Queen when an old anait (
servant was lost to her, but even tne m on( jer
and faithful of her people are beginning to
more or less openly at what cannot mo
considered an exaggeration of sentiment.
A PRESCRIPTION.
Patient : “ And when am I to take that ?”
Druggist (not born yesterday): “ As soon as you pay for It.”
“The Cup” Mania.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We have reached the festive season
When we play the racing role,
And with business “ feast of reason ”
Mix the sporting “ flow of soul;”
Holy saints, as well as sinners,
By this “ horsey ” mania curst,
Talk of “ losers ” and of “ winners ”
(But, most often, of the first).
Rakish swells and railway porters,
Errand boys, and—oh, ye gods 1 —
E’en our virtuous wives and daughters
Seem affected by “the odds;”
And I’ve heard (although not saying
That ’tis really true, of course),
That each parson, when he’s praying,
Asks a blessing on some horse.
Verdant lovers, who are gazing
In their rapture at the moon—
Even they (’tis most amazing)
Talk of sweepstakes, while they spoon.
(Though here 1 might just mention—
If it isn’t out of place—
That they’ll, one day, pay attention
To a different “ coming race.”)
The young man at the draper’s
Reads the sporting prints each week;
The boys—who sell the papers—
You ought to hear them speak
Of the various horses’ chances,
And (in language bold and free)
Talk of “ backing of their fancies ”
“ To win, and one, two, three.”
Why, I heard my little brother
(Who can barely stand five feet)
Say that something or another
Would be “very bad to beat;”
He had it “ straight from Billy,
That no one could get hurt
If they stood the 4 something ’ fUi\ —
She was such a 4 moral cert.’ ”
There’s a fellow in our office
Who is going fairly mad
Over 44 tips ” and things—poor novice!
Such a case is really sad;
For a faith that’s so implicit
In his “fancy for the Cup,”
Means a 44 petty cash ” deficit
When he has to 44 settle up.”
The air is thick with rumours,
People wink and whisper low
Of 44 dickey legs,” and 44 stunners,”
And horses that 44 won’t go;”
Of 44 some they keep on laying,”
That cannot “get a shop;”
Of 44 one that looks like staying,”
And is 44 just a blooming cop.”
I’ve discovered that my baker
(He’s quite a sporting 44 gent ”)
Has 44 been and gone a raker ”
On one that 44 isn’t meant,”
44 For,” said he (the baker’s cunning)
As he sadly winked his eye,
44 There’s a lot of ’em that’s running
As ain’t never going to try.”
So I see, now, very clearly
(And grieve for what I’ve spent)
The nags I back are, nearly
Always, 44 ones that isn’t meant;”
Be they fav’rltes or outsiders,
I have found in every case
That their poor unhappy riders
Are spectators of the race.
THE LEGISLATORS’ LAY.
See the blessed band of brothers,
’Gainst temptation proof;
From the sins that trouble others
We are quite aloof.
Never—and we say it proudly—
Do we get in debt;
No one here —proclaim it loudly—
Ever made a bet.
Though we’ve heard (and more’s the pity
Such should be the case)
There are folks in Melbourne city
Who attend a race—
For a pastime so debasing
“ Members ” couldn’t care;
While the outside world goes “ racing ”
We indulge in prayer.
Gambling is our pet abhorrence;
At the name of “ sweep ”
Tears discharge themselves in torrents
(Bitterly we weep).
We would scorn to put a penny
On a wicked “ boss;”
None of us (or hardly any)
Know the way to toss.
Never have we “ thrown ” for liquor
With the direful dice.
Till our speech grew somewhat thicker
(Only once or twice).
Vice, you see, has no attractions
For the M.L.A.;
We prefer to mould our actions
In a Christian way.
Sin has not the slightest leaven
In our hearts of grace;
We are bound to go to Heaven
(Or, the other place).


SCOTCH WHISKEY!
0T THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. IvCa/tuLxed.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’-S DUBLIN WHISKEY®
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottled in bond for Ex ( rt at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, t refore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ hiskey Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 Park Street,
IMPORTERS
of
PIANOS,
by every maker
of renown, from
£26 and up-
wards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE
COFFEE PALACE,
231 GEORGE STREET NORTH.
JOHN JOHNSON, Proprietor.
HAVING opened the above, the Proprietor has
supplied a want long felt in Sydney. The
first floor contains spacious Ladles and Gentle-
men’s Dining and Drawing Rooms, also Single and
Double Bedrooms, replete with every comfort.
A TRIAL IS RESPECTFULLY SOLICITED.
THE AUSTRALIAN
Diamond Drill Company.
CONTRACTS will be undertaken by the above
Company to bore any sized holes, vertical or
horizontal, up to
3 INCHES, OR LARGER IF REQUIRED,
to any depth, at a reduction of 25 PER CENT.
BELOW ANY PREVIOUS CHARGE.
The Company, in all cases, will find their owl
fuel and water for drilling purposes, and will make
no charge for loss of diamonds or wear and tear on
plant, and will also provide workmen engineers, &c.
The new duplex barrel, Introduced into the
colony by Mr. J. Coghlan, will be used free of
charge to persons searching for minerals.
Mr. Coglan has every confidence, from his prac-
tical knowledge of the Diamond Drill, that he will
be able to give general satisfaction, as well as quick
despatch to all orders addressed to the
Temporary Offices, 311 George-street.
JOHN COGHLAN,
General Manager, pro. tern.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH,
On GOLD, VULCANITE, &c.,
made on the most approved modern principles.
Warranted to com bine fit, comfort, and durability,
with perfectly natural appearance.
All dental operations performed with skill.
Teeth stopped, and extracted painlessly.
Charges strictly moderate.
MARSHALL BROTHERS
SURGEON DENTISTS,
106 Market-street, near Hyde Park.
Best work and best materials only.
CRESWELL’S CHOICE SEEDS.
ON receipt of £1, the following collection of
NEW GARDEN SEEDS will be forwarded
Free by return of post to any part of New South
Wales
loz. Beet (blood red), loz. Borecole or German
Greens, loz. Brocoli, 3oz. Cabbage (early and
late). 2oz. Carrot (2 varieties), loz. Celery, loz.
Cauliflower, loz. Cress (curled), loz. Mustard
(fine white), loz. Lettuce, loz. Parsnip, loz.
Parsley (extra curled), 2oz. Onions (2 varie-
ties), 4oz. Turnip (3 varieties), loz. Savoy,
loz. Spinach, 2oz. Radish (long and turnip), 3
packets Melons (water and rock), I packet
Cucumber, 1 packet Pumpkin, 1 packet
Tomato, 1 packet Vegetable Marrow.
One half of above collection, 10s, post free. 12
packets of choice assorted Flower Seeds, suitable
for present sowing, will be presented with each £1
Sost collection of Garden Seeds. Assortments of
eeds, containing Peas and Beans, for transit by
coach, rail, or steamer, for small or large gardens,
from 10s, £1, £2, and £3 3s each. Payments made
by money order or, stamps.
C. F. CRE8WBLL, Seed and Plant Merchant,
474 George-street, Sydney.
MOUSTACHE AND WHISKERS.
Boyd's Beard KHxir did tin*, and will do 14
on either bald head or bare face- * Forcee
heavy Mount ache ip from 2 to 4 weeks and
never-Caila, ’20,000 yoifog men already wear
Jfnll beard, .haring; need'I to 3 pkt’s. No
Injury, easily applied, certain- in effect.
Packets Is. (id. each,3for'3«r 6d., post paid,
■ent.under cover,free from observation, AddVees.FBAN* Douglas,
«oU Afoot* Box 780. G.P.O., Sydney. N;8.W.
WOOL SALES, 1883.
MY very numerous constituents, and all in-
terested In the wool trade, will please take
notice that my unrivalled
NEW WAREHOUSE
AT
Darling Harbour Railway Terminus
Will be READY FOR THIS SEASON, and that I
shall be prepared to do the fullest justice to the
LARGEST as well as the SMALLEST Clips.
Each lot will be carefully Weighed and Valued
as soon as received, weights and valuations being
submitted to owners so as to hear from them be-
fore sale if necessary.
Owing, now, to the attendance of Foreign
Buyers, our market is equal to the London Market
—a point well worth remembering. Any Bank or
Firm holding liens on wool will, if asked, allow
owners to send their wool to me ; and any For-
warding Agents, or Managers of Railways or
Steam Companies, will receive and forward Wool
or other Produce on my account, and pay carriage
or other expenses.
ALL PROCEEDS OF SALE will be available, as
heretofore, at ANY TIME after, sales ; or AD-
VANCES, small *r large, made before sales are
effected.
SALES of LIVE STOCK, TALLOW, HIDES.
GRAIN, SUGAR, and every sort of Produce will
also meet with the greatest possible care.
JOHN BRIDGE.
MORT and CO. (Limited ,
WOOL AND GENERAL
PRODUCE BROKERS.
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
Grain and Flour Brokers.
Wool,
LIBERAL ADVANCES
made on
Sheepskins,
Tallow,
Hides, Wheat,
Tin Ore, and
other Produce
for SALE and SHIPMENT.
Wool Warehouses and Produce Stores,
CIRCULAR QUAY
and
DARLING HARBOUR. SYDNEY.
A. & T. PRINGLE & CO.,
44 MARKET ST.
SYDNEY,
Importers of
WEIGHING
MACHINES,
AGRICULTURAL
IMPLEMENTS,
AND
MACHINERY.
zee
SB*
BROWN & MAY’S
Portable Engines, Saw Benches, Chaff Cutters,
Horse Gear, &c.
UBLIC NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 482 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
Or. TWO DOORS NORTH OE OLD SUM
L — id/Sti
,«S COLLEGE STREET, HYDE PARK. SYDNEY.
ARTIFICAL TEETH on the most approved Eng-
lish Principles, Fitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastica-
tion, Natural Appearance, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping, Scaling, and Extractions skilfully
oerformed
James Carroll,
FREE SELECTORS’ & MINERS’ LAND
AGENT,
WENTWORTH HOUSE, CHURCH HILL,
SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
FOWLER’S POTTERY and
BRICKWORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and Magazines received by
every Mall.
gOYAL ARCADE, 496 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Pianos! Pianos! Pianos!
PKEE TRADE and NO MONOPOLY.
Live and Let Live, these are Our Mottoes.
It Is a well-known fact that the Foundations off
Colossal Fortunes have been established upon the
Profits arising' from the SALE OF PIANOS in thia
City during the past Twenty Years by those
having little or no knowledge of the Construction
and Details of the Pianoforte. While giving the
Public the benefit of our Mr. Young’s 36 years-'
personal practical experience (5 years m J win
Broadwood and Sons, London, and 30 in N.o.w.i,
we will, at the same time, be satisfied with a fair
percentage on the Co-operative Principle, sharing'
the Profits with our Customers. We will sell from
25 per cent. less than the same class of Instrument
can be Purchased at any Music Shop in Sydney,
and we will offer nothing for Sale we cannot
guarantee. American Organs at proportionately
low prices. Also a Large Stock of Kohn s Cele-
brated Austrian Furniture, a single article of
which we are selling at Wholesale Prices.
Come and See Our LITTLE BEAUTIES in Wal-
nut and Full Iron Frame, at £35 cash, Eleswher©
£10 more, or under a Liberal Time Payment Sys-
tem.
George E. Young and Go.,
285 PTTT STREET,
South of Royal Arcade.
Singer’s Sewing Mashines.
TURNER & CO.
Are the Recognised Agents of the
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO-
TIME PAYMENTS:
3s. 6d. per week—3a. 8d. per week—0s. fid. per week.
And no interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE “ SINGER,”
TURNER & COMPANY,
353 Gecnrge-atreet,
THE ONLY “SINGER.”
Turner and Company,
678 GEORGE STREET.
tlMlN
R V estTn?
acmtnerv
101
CHAMPION
/ V
ENCIN
AND
mam
F10-UR tZIJi MILLS
FLEMING’S Carriage and Machinery Repository
33 and 38 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MOULTON’S
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MUCTLTON’S
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, aud
we can prove what we say. There are no failures aud no
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruity
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price 1*. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
55
K A
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT.—This favourite bra no
of Stout selected with great care from the
best of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
cannot be excelled. To be procured everywhere.
C ATT ELL k CO., Sole Agents.
315 George Street.
A few of our undertakings MOST SUCCESS
FULLY carried out, among which will he found
the LARGEST, MOST DIFFICULT, and MOST
RESPONSIBLE events that have taken place since
the opening of this establishment.
His Worship the MAYOR’S PICNIC, for 450, at
Clontarf.
His Worship the MAYOR’S BALL, for 1600, Exhi-
bition Building, at which his Worship, John
Harris, entertained their R.H.’s PRINCES AL-
BERT and GEORGE, EARL CLANWILLIAM,
and the Officers of the Detached Squadron.
Visit of their R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Llthgow Valley Mines and Zigzag.
Dinner A la Rmse, f er 60. in Government Palace
Dining Car while travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000 SCHOOL CHIL-
DREN—re Queen’s Statue Demonstration—under
VERY SHORT NOTICE, only receiving the
order at 2.80 p.m., to be ready on the spot at 12.30
p.m. the following day.
Visit of THEIR R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Captain Cook’s Landing, south side
of Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon and refresh-
ment, for 100, under VERY SHORT NOTICE, re-
ceiving order at 9.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot
at 1 p.m. following day.
MINISTERIAL ENCAMPMENT at the
NATIONAL PARK, Friday and Saturday, 5th
and 6th October, 1883. Breakfasts, Luncheons,
Dinners, &c., for 120 gentlemen.
The LADY MAYORESS’ RECEPTIONS, Town
HalL
The UNION CLUB BACHELOR’S BALL, at Exm-
bition Bulldlmg, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE WINDBYBB.
The Banisters’ Dinner to JUDGE INNES.
Dinner A I* Russe at St. Paul’s College, for 150 Mena
bers of the CBURCH OF ENGLAND SYNOD.
Dinner A la Rutte, to the INTERCOLONIAL RIP I fc
TEAMS, Town HaU.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at HAWKBa
BURY RACES, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bara at BANG
WICK RACES, in Grand Stand.
The CONSULAR DINNER, in our new Banquet
Boom.
ABMIDALE RAILWAY Demonstrations. Ban
quet for 400; MAYOR’S BALL, 600, same evening
and CITIZEN’S BALL, 500, the following eveiv
ing.
ALBURY-WODONGA RAILWAY DEMONSTRA-
TION—Grand Government Banquet for 1016
at Albury. Grand Ball, 800, following night.
Children’s feast, 1184, the following afternoon
and evening. Also, Breakfasts, Dinners, Teas,
and Suppers, in Government Dining Car, to
His Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus, the
Ministry, and Ms.P., while travelling to and
from Banquet, &c., &c.
Numerous Banquets and Entertainments by HI is*
WORSHIP THE MAYOR at Town Hall, &e.
Numerous Dinners A la Rusge in the N.S.tV
GOVERNMENT PALACE DINING CAB, whin-
travelling by rail, on account of the GOVERN
MBNT.
Together with a numerous lot of Private Dinners,
Feasts, Weddings, Garden Parties, Bails> Tet
Meetings Land Sales, Suppers, Picnics, Fishino
Excursions, &o.
CADET EXAMINATION, SURVEY OFFICE.
TT is hereby notified that an Examination of
1 Candidates for Employment as Cadets in the
Department of the Surveyor-General will be held
on the 28th, 39th, and 30th of November next.
Candidates must have attained the age of 16 years,
Or they will not be eligible for examination.
Intending competitors can obtain further in-
formation upon applying by letter to the Surveyor-
General, or personally to the Secretary and
Cashier.
(Signed) P. F. ADAMS,
Surveyor-General.
Surveyor-General’s Office,
Sydney, 10th October, 1888.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
HP 1 * 308 GEORGE STREET.
mil m
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD S
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGBN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
0T MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the-NBW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
smoke a decent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
with a moderate price.
HEYDE, TODMAN & CO.,
YOKE STREET, SYDNEY.


ILTOTTCE TO THE TIE^A-IDE!.
N ow Landing:.
d
b
o
Ex SIR WALTER RALEIGH-
87 cases assorted Bedsteads
60 ditto Austrian bentwood Chairs
10 ditto English bedroom Chairs
Ex GIJLE OF ST. VINCENT—
20 cases Toilet Glasses
2 tons curled hair
Ex SALAMIS—
74 cases half-tester Bedsteads
10 ditto Folding Chair Bedsteads
10 bales White Cotton Flock
Ex EYYOR —
760 bales best cleaned Java Kapok.
Ex CYNISCA—
10 cases black and gold Bedsteads
15 ditto French Bedsteads
5 ditto Howcliffe’s Wove Wire Mat-
tresses
20 ditto Four-post Iron Bedsteads
10 ditto Children’s Cots.
Ex GLENFINART —
10 bales Feathers
20 ditto Curled Vegetable Fibre
20 cases 2ft. 6in. stump bedsteads
40 ditto bedsteads, all sorts and sizes.
Ex HIMBERHORNE—
44 cases bedsteads, lin. and 2in., all sizes.
Ex CEDEIC THE SAXON—
30 cases Austrian bentwood Chairs.
Ex ALTGAE —
102 packages, consisting of
Wove Wire Mattresses
Bedsteads
Curled Eibre, &c , &c.
Ex CHEISTIANA THOMPSON, to arrive
54 cases iron bedsteads
10 ditto brass ditto.
Ex AIKSHAW, from New York —
150 cases of Chairs
Ex PHASIS—
72 cases assorted bedsteads.
Ex HEEEWAED—
10 cases of nickel-plated h. t. bedsteads.
The above 18 shipments having been
specially selected and purchased by me for
prompt cash, during my recent visit to
America and England, at exceedingly low
prices, I can offer you any of the above
goods at less than auction-room prices.
Thanking you for past favours, and soli-
citing a continuance of the same,
I remain, yours faithfully,
J. LAWLER,
608 George-street, Sydney.
Ex GULE OE MEXICO—
3 tons black curled Horsehair
2 ditto Purified English Eeathers
i ditto ditto Eider Down
24 cases Single and Double Bedsteads
44 ditto Single and Double Cots.
Ex ANGLO-NORMAN —
54 cases black and brass-mounted half-
tester Bedsteads, new designs
10 bales Eancy Striped Tacking
Ex MORIALTA —
82 cases 4-post Bedsteads, all sizes
10 ditto Rowcliffe’s Wove Wire Spring
Mattresses
10 bales 88in. Eofar
Ex GULP OE CARPENTARIA —
10 cases black and nickel-plated Bed-
steads, speciality
2 tons black curled hair
4 bales Cotton Ticks
2 ditto Bed Lace.
Ex ONEIDA—
100 cases Walter Haywood Wood-seated
Chairs
20 ditto Large Rockers, Cane Seats
ditto
30 ditto Grecian Cane Seat ditto
20 ditto Nurse Rockers, Cane Seat dittc
10 ditto Wove Wire Spring Mattresses
r MR. J. LAWLER’S Great Import and Manufacturing Bedding Warehouse, an interior view the
herewith given, is situate at 608 George-street, Brickfield Hill, Sydney. It os impossible here to give full details of the
or the manufacturing capabilities, &c., of the establishment; they must be left for another A ® h eheart
doubtless, be read with nude interest. Suffice it here to say it is surprising to find so extensive a manufacturing busm where
of the city. The premises extend from George-street to Pitt-street, with a.frontage admos -e widens up to 60 feet,
there are about half-a-dozen entrances to the various stores or departments. The frontag & material selected bv
and the depth runs to 375 feet. In the show room are exhibited all the latest lines m bedsteads and bedding material,
Mr. Lawlei himself, while on his recent tour in England, »n the Continent, and in t e . 3 va iue-of the goods being
extensive stores solidly packed with enormous shipments of bedsteads, bedding ma ena » •» ■ < from 45 to 6(f hands, and
nothing less than £15.0W). In the factory the very latest machinery is used. Constant Xr^“,f the business
the business averages the grand total of a trifle over £36,000 per annum. Two-thirds of the whole trade is w ,. tn q{
connection being not merely with the furniture-ware, hardware, and importers of Sydney and o somethin J’will certainly be
all the colonies Mr. Lawler will be glad to show any visitor to Sydney through his premises, where something will ceitai y
found both to instruct and astonish people.


READ IT ALL.
It may Save your Life.
hop bitters
ARB
The Purest and Best
Medicine erer made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, B itch it, Mandrake, and Dandelion.
“The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and in addition contain all the best
‘ and most effective curative properties
‘ of all other bitters, being: the greatest
‘ Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
* and life and health restoring agent on
‘ earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Aged
and Infirm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
‘ Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
‘irregularities of the Blood, Stomach
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require tut
‘ Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are invaluable, being
‘ highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
* without intoxicating.”
“No matter what your feelings or
* symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
‘ wait until you are sick, but if you only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun*
‘ dreds have been saved by so doing, at
* a trilling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
‘ friends suffer, but use and urge them to
‘use Hop Bitters.”
“Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
‘drugged, drunken nostrum, but the
‘purest and best Medicine ever made,
‘and no person or family should be
‘without ft.”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO.,
Melbourne, Australia, Rochester, N. ¥., U. R
A., Toronto, London, Antwerp, Paris.
GRAHA
i”
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment,
648, late 581, Georgo-street, Sydney.
Gentlemen, —I respectfully beg leave to bring
under your notice the superior style and lit of our
Trousers, which are out on the same unerring
principles as those which have made the name of
Hill, Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion In the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either In sitting, riding
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor braces
fall smoothly over the bo> t, and maintain their
position In every attitude of the body.
They are designed to fit the corpulent as well
the slight figure, and are engaged to ff i ve to all the
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial will suffice to establish their claim
on your patronage.
I am, Sir,
Your obedient Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM.
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURB FOR INDIGESTION
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT, WEAK-
NESS, At.
PRICE 2s. 6d.
Prepared by A. G. KEBBLEWHITB, Chemist. Ao
43 ERSKINE STREET. * ‘
Sold by W. U. SOUL, and all i
A ROUNDABOUT PAPER.
In Vanitt Fair, Florence Dixie Is still hammer-
ing at the Land League. Flo’s truthfulness may
be unimpeachable, but her logic is very bad. Now
that we think of it, her truthfulness Itself is not
above suspicion. Until she tells the whole truth
about those two Irish hodmen in women’s clothes
who sought to disarrange her system, and about
her dogs, the world will say very cruel things of
her veracity. She now writes that “Boon or no
boon, the League deserves no credit for it [the
Land Act] ” I Out here, we thought all along that
the Land League had something to do with the
agitation which resulted in the Land Act—just as
people thought that the Reform of 50 years ago was
due to agitation, and not to the desire of the Peers
to popularise Parliament. But Flo knows better.
And Vanity Fair calls Land - Leaguerism
“foul heresy.” On his return to England from
the Empire he had conquered on the Ganges,
Clive was accused of accepting sundry valuable
“ presents ” from an Indian Prince who took him
through his treasury, and poured out before him
the East’s “ barbaric peari and gold.” “ By ,”
said the sturdy Englishman, as the remembrance
flashed upon him of the insignificant douceurs he
had accepted when he might have taken all, “ I am
now astonished at my own moderation.’ So, when
we turn over the pages of Vanity Fair and other
organs of flunkeylsm; observe the people who are
honoured and obeyed—people who never did an
honest day’s work, harboured a noble thought, or
devoted a day of their useless lives to the cause of
human progress; when we read headings like the
following to the vulgar lives of those who would
think it a condescension to notice Carlyle or
Buckle:—
“ LADIES.—No II.
THE MARCHIONESS OF WATERFORD.
TADY BLANCHE ELIZABETH ADB-
LAIDE SOMERSET, the onlydaughter
of the eighth Duke of Beaufort, K.G., mar-
ried in July, 1874, the fifth Marquis of
Waterford, K.P., &o. &o ” —
we are amazed, not at the sweeping character of
the reforms advocated by “advanced” men, but
at their modesty. The other day Lord Louth died
in New York. He was an English hereditary law-
maker. His vote might have thrown out an im-
portant measure, or stayed the repeal of an ob-
noxious law. His chief feat was in beating one
Tracy, a Yankee, in drinking “ cocktails,” at the
bar of a New York hotel. He drank 86, while
Tracy gave up at 85. One might look through
the writings of all the Vanity Fairs and all the
Florence Dixies in the world and never obtain a
hint of the mediaeval abuses against which English
Liberalism is rising and surging, and never learn
that the working man who is sent to gaol by a
Reverend J.P, for not devoting some of
his eleven shillings a week to the schooling of
his six children, has to pay his quota of the £10,000
spent on Hampton Court Palace last year to keep
it in repair for superannuated ladles—old hangers-
on of the Court—who go to sleep with their
candles burning, and do £4000 worth of damage in
an hour. It is not from “ Flo ” we learn that Mrs.
Durham, wife of the working man in question, had
to pay Is. 9d. a week for rent out of her husband’s
11s., and was then asked by the Rev. Mr. Goddard,
the presiding magistrate, how it was she had no
furniture in the house and no money to educate
her children. The journal from which we obtain
this information adds, a little coarsely, perhaps:
“ This poor woman would have been justified in
retorting to the brutal question of the Rev. God-
dard by saying that she could not pay school fees
for her children because she was taxed to support
fat-sided lobsters like him by the thousand. And
she might have also added ‘I am taxed at the rate
of £42,000 a year to keep up Royal palaces, in some
of which superannuated old ladies are lodged, who
have nothing else to do but to set fire to them, for
which I am likewise taxed.’ ”
An attempt—neither sanctified by the patronage
of fashion, nor made repulsive by the vulgarities
of Salvationists—has been lately initiated in this
city to better the lives of some of its waifs. There
is not much brightness in the opening years of
many of our city arabs; and, without word-
painting the misery that often attends their early
career, we may say, it is a mockery to offer these
boys tracts—to ask them if they don’t want to be
saved, when what they really want is soap—or to
suppose there is any charity in buying antima-
cassars from ladies who rustle silk dresses at a
bazaar, but wouldn’t touch one of those boys from
their carriage. The attempt now made may not
succeed, but it is honest. The Young Australian
Club, located (at present) in Cook’s warehouse,
Harris-street, Ultimo, was started by three ladles
and two gentlemen a few weeks ago, and now
numbers an average attendance of twenty-five
members, from 12 years of age upwards. They
pay 6d a week each, and, unlike most city clubs, no
candidate is blackballed. They want the bad boys
—the worse they are the more they want to g t
them in. The promoters attend at the club rooms
two evenings a week, and play games with those
somewhat soapless boys, tell or show them what-
ever they want to know, and talk with them as
long as they’ve got anything to say ; but they
don’t patronise them from a lofty height of good-
ness. The one condition is that the boys shall
behave, and, treated rationally', they do. Praise
and prayer are no doubt excellent things : but
aeeing, as a rule, that they are effective mostly up-
on dusky and distant Islanders only, it is intended
to try and help these boys along without such aids,
for a while, at any rate. They are neither asked
to pray words they don’t understand, nor to sing
hymns. In other words, the idea is totally divested
of all sectarianism. It may be shocking, but it’s
worth a trial. Many of the great benefactions of
the world have sprung from smaller beginnings
than this. There is no gushing enthusiasm; the
Plan is one conceived by ladies and gentlemen,
both educated and practical, for reaching the un-
consldered waifs of the city, and starting for them,
an establishment each can have a share and a
Pleasure In, a club of their own.
»
A Correspondent thus writes :—I see by the
Sydney papers that Mr. A. Q. Taylor ha* intro-
duced a Bill to the Assembly which provides,
among other things, “ that . . . every barrister
ab&U be entitled to sue for and recover such fee*
as the person employing’ him shall mark on his
brief or shall contract to pay him.” Will yon, in
the Interests of the unfortunate public, suggest to
the hon. member the advisableness of omitting the
words quoted above with a view to the insertion of
the following or similar words : ”... no attorney
shall be entitled to sue for any fees or charges of
any kind whatever.” I feel sure the hon. member
will be quick to see the immense public gain that
would surely follow the passage into law of such a
provision. A powerful coercive machine would
be snatched from the control of the harpies, the
conscienceless harpies, whose unlimited powers of
extortion are as well known as they are disgrace-
ful to us, as a common-sense community. I have
heard it said, that such an enactment, would be
unjust to the “ poor man,” because if he had not
the money to pay the lawyer beforehand, he could
not go to law. To this I say, “ all the better for
the * poor man.’ The less any man dabbles in law
the better for him.” On the other hand, is it
necessary for me to point out to the inteUlgent
readers of The Bulletin, the advantages that
would accrue to the public if the lawyer could
not recover his “ fees ” at law, if he had to bargain
with his client for undertaking a “ case ?” I hardly
think so, as the advantages are patent to anyone.
No doubt, even if such a law were in operation,
the lawyers would still find a means of grinding
the unfortunate clients; but I maintain that their
grinding powers would be Incalculably reduced
if my suggestion were adopted.
In or around Melbourne—or, in fact, anywhere in
Victoria—would seem not to be an enviable place
to bring up children at the present time. This last
week or so, every day has told its own ugly tale;
and, after allowing for the exaggerations in which
a certain class of informers is prone to Indulge,
there is reason enough to fear that a more fell
destroyer than typhoid, and a more ruthless agent
of disfigurement than small-pox, is at large. The
Rev. D. Jones Hamer, of the Colllns-street Inde-
pendent Church, stripped an ulcerous wound at a
recent meeting of the Congregational Union. On
Information which he asserted to be reliable, he
said that, in one day, eleven little children went to
a doctor in Melbourne, admittedly suffering from
effects of immorality: and ne spoke of a country
school in which immoral practices were the rule
among all the children in attendance. Within a
few days of these disclosures, testimony was
published from another source narrating exploits
which led to three female pupils from one
school being sent into Melbourne for treatment
for complaints under this head. And, as if these
accounts were not enough for one season, the
Fltzroy Council, on the night of the 16th, threw on
the canvas a picture of the surroundings of the
Napier-street State School, which made all pre-
vious statements capable of being conceived by
the most sceptical listener. In Little Napier-
street, which is only a lane, and which runs parallel
with the street in which the school is situated,
women are seen drunk and naked in the daylight,
and can be beheld wrangling and fighting by the
children in the play-ground. These accounts,
fairly considered, are not an indictment of the
system, but must be admitted as a grave Indict-
ment of the administration of the system of secular
instruction. The Inspector-General of the Vic-
torian State schools was before us the other day,
and his record, when held up to the public, neces-
sitated his summary removal from a position in
which he could touch youth or move as an example
to maturity. And through the various grades of
the system we have been now hurriedly carried,
until the last things our eyes rest on are supine
administrators, naked women, diseased children,
and general dismay.
Flies AND BUGS, beetles. Insects, roaches, ants,
bed-bugs, rats, mice, gophers. Jack-rabbits, cleared
out by “Bough on Rats.” Moses, Moss & Co,.
Sydney, General Agents.
SAWBONES AT LARGE.
Tyndall it was who indignantly denied that
the pursuit of science weaned men from literature.
He held that they were twin sisters, and so attached
to each that separation would be fatal to one or to
both. We have a great respect for Tyndall ever
since his Belfast address knocked bigotry and
orthodoxy as high as the Peak of Tenerlffe; but
regard for truth compels us to dissent from him
sometimes. We were always haunted with doubts
about that dictum of his concerning science and
literature, but ever since our eyes fell on the Aus-
tralasian Medical Gazette, our doubts have
(in his own words) “ faded into the infinite azure
of the past.” We are now certain that these twins
not only live but thrive separately. The spirit of
Mrs. Malaprop was guiding the pen of the person
who indited the first two sentences in the first
paper of the October number. In the third sen-
tence the objective form of the relative pronoun
marks a new departure in syntax.
• •
The annual address read by our old friend
Dr. Neild before the Victorian Branch of the
Medical Association is the most instructive docu-
ment that has come under our notice since little
Beaney “chawed up” the profession in that
lecture of his, “Doctors Differ.” It will open
more old sores than Higlnbotham’s pamphlet.
Owing to the limited staff attached to the medical
department of the Melbourne University, it was
customary for the same teacher to lecture and
to examine. The consequence of this was that
some students, who didn’t “ hit it ” with the
Professor thought, perhaps unreasonably, that It
would be well to take a trip to Edinburgh or Glas-
?ow with a view of obtaining their diplomas be-
ore they got bald. The examinations are now
conducted by boards and this—the obviously
sound method—“can hardly,” according to the
report, “ be declared a success." In fact, it is
adapted for all other universities but that of
Melbourne. It is declared to be equally objection-
able, “for obvious reasons,” to students and lec-
turers. We pine for those “obvious reasons.”
They call to mind Mr. David Blair’s method of
settling an awkward historical or political ques-
tlon. “It might be shown, if time allowed, that
that the Americans were wrong in leaving the
Empire.” or, “ It is clear that the Irish are en-
tirely unfit to govern themselves.” The report
alludes to “the well-understood sympathies of
magisterial benches with ouackery,” and then
tackles the subject of vaccination by unqualified
men. We are fiercely in favour of protecting the
charmed circles of medicine and surgery from the
raids of charlatans, but why the boy who can be
entrusted to compound mixtures containing
strychnine, prussic acid, or corrosive sublimate,
could not be taught how to take a piece of lymph
on the point of a lancet and introduce it into a
baby’s system without first mastering comparative
anatomy, is miles beyond us.
• • ♦
Dr. Craig Dixson oomplainsfeelinply of the
“inconvenience” to which he is subjected by
being obliged by the authorities to walk over the
crossings or drive round a corner at loss than
fifteen knots an hour. An exception might cer-
tainly be made in favour of medical men, which
would t riable them not only to reach their undents
sooner but to hurry back and attend to the people
they maimed on the way.
* ♦ *
This also is from the Gazette:—“M.A.T.,
a Tasmanian coachbullder, was once a child, and,
by means of crackers and shanghais, made life
agreeable to the elderly people in his neighbour-
hood. One day, while craning his neck over the
hall door of the village smithy, to see if he could
increase the smith’s comfort by means of damp
gunpowder or any of the methods known to
youth, a spark the size of a quart-pot flew off an
incandescent horse-shoe, and met his eye. Then he
hied him home, with the cornea, iris, lens, retina,
anchoroid of his right optic all mixed up together,
like citizens at a Mayor’s ball or black-legs at the
Melbourne Cup. So the years went by, and he be-
came a coach-builder, got married, and settled
down to raise a family and observe life with one
eye. In February, 1881, he went out to the back to
chop wood, and, of course, what might have been
looked for came to pass. It was a splinter, not a
spark, this time, and it was his left eye that hap-
pened to be in the road. Then he consulted Dr.
Rudall, of Melbourne, who told him that the last-
injured eye, at all events, was past repair, but
volunteered to do something for the right—and
did it. In a short time, the sight that the black-
smith’s spark had apparently destroyed over twenty
years before was almost as good as ever. This Is
no romance, but a plain, solid fact, and one of the
oddest with which even we are acquainted.
A NOVICE.
<) ld Hand ;—“ You see that cord ? Well, if you want to blow your nose, give a pull.


WOOL SEASON, 1883-4.
R. Goldsbrough & Co.
(limited).
In which are amalgamated The Australasian
Agency and Banking Corporation (Limited),
and R. Goldsbrough and Co.,
WOOL & GRAIN BROKERS.
Capital £3,000,000.
BEG to notify the Woolgrowers of New South
Wales and Queensland that they make
Liberal Cash Advances, on favourable terms, on
the ensuing clip of Wool, and on Station securities.
They have also much pleasure in announcing that
their NEW WAREHOUSES at Darling Harbour
will be ready for the reception and sale of Wool,
Auction Sales of which will be held every FRIDAY
throughout the season. This department will
remain under the control of an efficient staff of
experts, who will take charge of and Sell to the
Best Advantage all consignments entrusted to the
Company’s care. The Sales of Fat Stock (at
Homebush), Station and Freehold Properties.
Grain, Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, and General
Station Produce, will be under thesuperindenceof
Mr. GEORGE MAIDEN. The Warehouses will be
unrivalled in the Southern Hemisphere for extent
and adaptability to the trade, being replete with
every Modern Improvement for the Efficient Dis-
play of Wool, the sale of which will b ; conducted
on the Melbourne system. Large and complete
samples of each clip will be shown in the well-
lighted SAMPLE ROOMS, which comprise the
wnole of the upper floors, and as the bulk will be
easily accessible in the various rooms, which are
convenient to each other, the fullest facilities will
be available for inspection, thus ensuring the ut-
most confidence in purchasing. Prior to offering,
valuations will be made by several experienced
valuators, and their valuations will be carefully
compared before the wool is submitted for sale.
The various lots, no matter how small, will be pro-
tected up to the full market value. As they con-
fine their business strictly to that of SELLING
BROKERS ONLY, the bast guarantee is afforded
that no parcel will be sold for less than its worth.
Farmers’ Lota receive special attention, every bale
and sack in the clip being shown in the Sample
Rooms. Should owners’ expectations not be
realized In - ydney, they have the advantage of
trying the Melbourne market before deciding on
shipment, ia which latter case the Company Is pre-
pared to make liberal cash advances at lowest
market ra'es, and consign to the English, Conti-
nental, or American markets for disposal. The
charges on Wool offered for sale, but not sold, are
only ONE SHILLING PER BALE, which includes
Receiving, Warehousing, Insurance whilst instore,
and Delivering.
LONDON—156 & 167 LEADENHALL STREET.
MELBOURNB-BOURKE & WILLIAM STREETS.
SYDNEY-4 SPRING STREET.
WRIGHT,HEATON&GO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom bouse
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE :
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT 0F N* W
SOUTH WALES.
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern
Goulburn
Yass
Bownlng
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Junoe
District, N.8.W.:
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rock
Culcalrn
Cowabee
Narandera
Hulong
Carratnool
Hay
Western District, N.8.W.;
Capertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromlne
Nevertlre
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblln
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
Northern District, N.8.W.:
Morpeth Brewarrlna
Gunnedah Tam worth
Narrabri Uralla
Walgett
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Line:
Brisbane Yeulba
Roma Cambooya
Dalby
Central Lines
Rockhampton Capella
Bogantungan Comet
Emerald
Northern Line:
Townsville Ravenswood Junction
Charters Towers
Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
WM. MCULLOCH ft CO., LIMITED.
Agencies in all parts of the world
LLAS
JMBR
RE-COVERED
DTUDY ECONOMY
and
Have yourUmbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-llned and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sto.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
cuted.
PROGRAMME of CAMDEN and CAMPBELL-
TOWN JOCKEY CLUB RACES,
to be run on
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1883.
President: C. Bull, Esq. Judge: G. F. Want, Esq.
Stewards: Dr. Beattie, Messrs. Docker, Ahearn,
P. B. Hurley, I. Rudd, J. Rudd, A. Lenon, E.
L. Rutledge, T. CadeJl, and C. Thompson.
Clerk of the Scales : Mr. A. Lenon. Starter: Mr.
C. Stanley. Clerk of the Conrse : Mr. 8. Byrne.
First Race.—MAIDEN PLATE of 30 sovs, with a
sweep of 1 sov each added, for all maiden horses
at time of entrance ; second horse to receive 5
sovs from the prize. Penalty for winning once,
51b.; twice or more, 71b. Weight for age. Entries
now open. 1J4 mile.
second Race.—TRAMWAY HANDICAP of 25
sovs, with sweep of 1 sov. each added. M mile.
Third Race—JOCKEY CLUB HANDICAP of 70
sovs, with a sweep of 2 sovs each added ; second
horse 10 sovs from the prize. VA mile.
Fourth Race.—PRINCE OF WALES STAKES of
30 sovs, with a sweep of 1 sov each added ; for all
horses ; weight forage. Winner to be sold imme-
diately after the race for £5b : 71b. weight allowed
on every reduction of £10 on the selling; price down
to nil; any surplus to go to the race fund. Once
round the course, about 1J4 mile.
Fifth Race -MAYOR’S GIFT . f 20sovs, with 20
sovs added from the club ; welter handicap, to be
ridden by amateur members of any' recognised
racing club. The winner of Jockey Club handicap
to carry a penalty of 51b. H mile.
Sixth Race. FINAL FLUTTER of 10 sovs, for
all hacks. Winner to be sold immediately after
the race for 5 sovs, any surplus to go to the race
fund. Once round the course.
Seventh Race —DISTR'CT CUP, presented by
6. Brown, Esq., with 10 sovs added from the club,
and a sweep of 10s. each added, for all horses th.
bond fide property of pesons residing within the
police districts of Camden and Campbelltown.
Once round the course W eight for age.
A.J.C. Rules strictly adhered to.
Nominations, with 1 sov end sod as part of en-
trance fee. for Maiden Plate and Handicaps, must
be in the hands of the secretary not later than 8
p in. on December 1.
Weights on December 6 ; balance of entrance
money on night of general entry; night of general
entry, December 10 ; sweeps at the scales.
Entrance, 5 per cent, on amount of prize.
A. B. CHIPPINDALL, Hon. Sec.
AGING SEASON, 1883.
E. E. JONES,
INTERNATIONAL HOTEL, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE CUP, 1883.
No. 1 CONSULTATION.
ENCOC RAGED by past successes, I beg to
announce that I intend having a
8BRIB1S OF CONSULTATIONS
of the above, on the usual distribution.
No. 1 is now open, and will close at the earliest
possible date.
I must request Immediate application, so that
fortunate holders may have a good opportunity
of hedging.
Address—
“JANITOR,”
Care of E. E Jones,
International Hotel, Sydney.
N.B.—For the convenience of Town Clients, a
Letter Box will be found in the bar.
THOMAS MUNRO,
&T HERALDIC ARTIST AND ENGRAVER,
PLAIN AND FANCY STATIONER,
10 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
A Large and varied assortment of Letter Books,
Account Books, and all office requisites. Purses,
Albums. Plush Bags, and Reticules; Artists’ Mate-
rials, Photo, and Picture Frames, Illuminated
Scripture and other texts Birthday, Condolence,
and Memorial Cards.
Agent for August Hueuerbeln for Pianos, Or-
gans, and Music. The Engraving workshop being
under my own management. T feel confident in
suiting the public taste.
ma
The use oi mis valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are tbiee klnus, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the Yellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to persons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
gums,decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
drops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never su ei again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound an ■ wnlte to the end. That
with the Red is for children's use.
May be obtained of ail Medicine Vendors.
Caution—To guard againd fraudulent imitations ,
ee that each Label bea/is Lhe name, “ Wilcox and
Co., 239 Oxford-street, Low in a."
DE
One of these Cigarettes gives Immediate relief in
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis,
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them invaluable, as they instantly cheek th®
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitatiom,
see that each tsrx bears the name of “ Wilcox ana
o... 280 Ozfordstrtel, London."
Foster's Buqle Brand.
1^7/:vx‘
HOT WATER BATHS
HAIR DRESSING WtCMAKlNG F STABlISHNENT
< 137, 139 & 141 OXF ORD ,S T .
HALF HOL /Oh y Ft'F/f Y 7/YUAl SOA Y
AND
ND
ALL
CHEST AFFECTIONS
1
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
WIRE WORKERS,
WISH to call your attention to W IKE GOODS
we make and have in stock as under ;—
FLOWER STANDS, for holding: flowers in pots,
made of iron and wire, handsomely framed and
bronzed, suitable for rooms, halls, balconies, ver-
andahs, and conservatories. Also, WIRE FERN
BASKETS, all sizes and prices.
SIEVES and SCREENS, for screening lime,
gravel, coal, &c., all meshes, from 1 hole to 100
holes to the squares inch.
WIRE LATTICE-WORK, for protection of win-
dows from breakage caused by nail-storms or boys’
throwing stones. Also, WIRE NETTING, all sizes,
from 13 in, to 73 in. wide.
CAGES of every description, for canaries and
parrots, singly or in nests, suitable for store-
keepers.
And every description of WIRE WORK made on
the premises.
EASTWAY, BROTHERS,
413 GBORGE-8TKBBT.
pf Illustrated Catalogues on application.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED
IV. H. Ariel/ and Co.’s Agencies.
swallow & aKIBLL’8 prize Biscuits, Canter-
bury, Mormanby, and Christmas Family Cakes,
Plum Puddings, Mincemeat, Self-raising
Crated Flour, Infant’s Food, Treacle and
Golden Syrup.
EXCELSIOR MILLS.—Superior Victorian Oat-
meal and Pearl Barley.
DILLON & BURROWS* prize assorted Confec-
tionery.
J. KITCHEN & SONS, No. 1 Mottled and Toilet
Soaps.
J. F. MCKENZIE & CO.’S Coffee, Mustard, Cocoa,
Tea, in Hjlb. and lib. packets ; dressed Rice,
and Patent Groats.
HUNT & CO.’S Prize Baking Powders, Adelaide
Jams Paper Bags, &c.
343 and 346 KENT-8TREET, SYDNEY.
0LEND
jmark]
Li
/■'iOLLTE BLEND WHISKY—This is a BLEND
Vy of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTBLL & CO., Solo
Agents.
I>. K I R B Y .
From the late Mr. James Cuhtis.
*CT jo. dortaJs: er,
•*4 H (INTER &. PHILLIP STREETS.
funerals neatly executed
N.B. Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years: also,
Manager for over ten 110) years.
JOHN DUNKS,
IMPORTER OF
Bitjtlis ul Tricycle:
*rtee=*
ANI> I'HK WtJiCKWttAKY
Fittings for same*
363 Pitt Street, Sydney.
1 rt
M
SjSa»
in;;
GENUINE RXTKA
STOUT.
BASS PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS ANTI» WTNE;j
MERCHANTS.
Virgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
C O
Robert butcher &
(Late William Long),
&T WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Order* receive emmet attention.
mo CONNOI8BUR8 of WHISKEY & BRANDY,
i W. & A. Gilbey’s CASTLE BRAND WHIS-
KEY and L’OR EXTRAIT BRANDY are the
oldest and purest spirits imported.
TUCKER & CO., Agents,
377 George-street.
EVERY DESCRIPTION OF FISHING TACKLE,
Wholesale and Retail.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE STREET.
m
A. GORMAN,
Tjitft of the Telegraph Hotel, Inverell,
HAS OPENED THE
‘ Cla,rexa.d.on,’
Corner of ELIZABETH & PARK Streets,
And which he intends t,»> keep as a first- lass Hotel,
A. G. Qupes, o> strict attention to Business, to
gain a share of their PATRONAGE. \ ISITORB
will find this surpasses most of the leading
HOTELS for ACCOMODATION and every CON-
VENIENCE ; and, as it overlooks HYDE PARK, it
must necessarily be W ELL VENTILATED.
SrKi'sw -jt w >OM8 for FAMILIES,
as per agreement.
HOT and COLD WATER BATHS.
SORTER In Attendance Day <md Night.
It Is nut necessary to mention the quality of tne
WINES. SPIRITS, BEERS. &o. &c., as he Is, and al-
ways has been. noted throughoul the CO LON IRS
for selling nothing hut the rer>
W’
LCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
M ANGLES
washing
MACHINES,
CHURNS.
Corn shelters
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10
HEBBLEWHITE & C CM
416 GEORGE STREET.
A
DINNER,
r O ONE
%
SHILLING.
w
V
»
a
w 2
5 s
£3
■ 9
9
PITT STREET,
NEAT TATTERSALL’S.
All Weals One 'liHUn*.
J. C. GREENFIELD, PKOPBlKTOa.
A


J=MARTIN <* C—
THE FOLLOWING STALLIONS will Standi
the ensuing Season at RICHMOND, where
firet-class Paddocks will be provided for Mares,,
with every care and attention, but without re-
sponsibility
MAKIBYRNONG .. Subscription Full
GRAND FLANEUR.. Terms, 30 Guineas per Mare
A few half-bred Mares will be taken to Beauclero
at half-price.
Each Horse will be limited to 15 of the public
mares.
All Mares must be paid for and removed by
January 1,1884.
ANDREW TOWN, Richmond.
/CLYDESDALES.
The following Imported Pore Clydesdale STAL-
LIONS will STAND at Richmond the coming
Season, when tirst-class Paddocks will be provided
for Mares, with every care and attention, but
without responsibility
MUIR LAD,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
DAVIE,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
GALLANT SCOTCHMAN,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
Comment on these Horses is unnecessary. They-
have proved themselves on all the principal Show
Grounds of the Colony, and their Stock have done
the same, their progeny at six months old selling
at from 50 guineas to 100 guineas each.
All Mares must be paid for and removed by
January 1, 1884.
ANDREW TOWN. Richmond.
TO STAND THIS SEASON at MULGRAVE,
near WINDSOR, the imported coadnng
stallion,
PERFECTION,
the thoroughbred horse,
TESTATOR,
and the Exmoor pony,
UNOLB TOM.
PERFECTION, a brown horse, 5 years old, stands
1T.1 hands high, perfect in symmetry, with grand
action. His pedigree is as follows Sire Coker’s
Perfection, g s Warthe’s Perfection, g g s Jackson’s
Perfection, g g g s Catton, g g g g s Bay Becking-
ham, g g g g g s Grand Conqueror, g g g g g g s
Henderson’s King George. Dam by Old Pheno-
menon (which horse was sold for 800 guineas), g d
by Wink's Champion Two half-brothers to Per-
fection were sold for 500 and 800 guineas respec-
tively, when 5 and 3 years old. PERFECTION
took 16 first prizes, and was never beaten in a show
ring.
TESTATOR, by the Tester (imp.) out of Rosedale
(Imp.), the dam of Kingsdale, winner of the
Hawkesbury Guineas, &c., &c.
UNCLE TOM, winner of first prize at late
Sydney Exhibition, by Sir Thomas (imp.), out of
Pretty Star (imp.) He stands 13 hands high, has
immense strength, beautiful symmetry, and per-
fect action. Pretty Star’s dam (Starlight) was
champion racing pony in England, having won
over £2000, including a match for £500, and was
never beaten.
Terms—
PERFECTION :
Mares left in paddock.. .. 8 guineas each.
Mares taken to horse .. ..6 „ „
TESTATOR ..4 „ „
UNCLE TOM 3
Good paddocks provided, and every care taken,
without responsibility. As only a limited number
of mares will be taken, early application is neces-
sary.
GEORGE 8. YEO.
THE Imported Blood Stallion,
GRANDMASTER,
(Sire of Sting and Sussex) will Stand at Mlnimbal
this Season Terms : Fifteen Guineas per Mare.
Also,
LECTURER,
By Klngstoi , dam Sappho. Terms Ten Guineas
per mare.
The Proprietor will give two Cups, value £25
each, to be run for at the Northern J.C. Meeting,
season 1886-7, for then two-year-olds, the produce
of mares served this season by the above horses,
respectively.
Also, the Blood Stallion,
KING OF THE WEST,
by Gemma di Vergy, from Princess by Little Job i
her dam Tomboy by Marquis from a Camertoi
Mare. He was a good performer in the best com
pany, and ran through five seasons, being wonder
fully sound, and of fine eon tltutlon. At thre<
years old ho won the Mudgee Maiden Plate, beat
Ing Novice and Constance; besides running severs
times placed. At Four, won Hawkesbury Tur
Club Handicap, beating, among others, 8tauhop<
Ladybird, Jav lin, Burwood, and Viva; and was
several times second and third. At five years’ old
he won the Hawkesbury Turf Club Handicap, toi
the second time, carrying 7st., beating Stanhope,
7st. 91b., Athos, 6st. 71b., Othello, 6st. 111b., Sweet-
briar, Sir Solomon, and four others At Randwick
Spring, won Waverley Handicap (7st. 121b.) beating
Evangeline, Sunbeam, Ladybird. Llama, Viva, and
four others. Won the Stewards Cup, at Bathurst,
carrying 7st. 81b., beating Blair Athol, Little King,
and eight others. Won Hawkesbury summer
Handicap (7st. 111b.), beating Wrangler, Priam, and
seven others ; ami ran second to Beadsman for the
Cudjegong Handicap, at Mudgee. The following
season he di not score a win, but ran unluckily,
as he had run on many previous occasions.
Terms : £5 5s. per mare.
The Draught Horse,
GRAND AUSTRALIAN,
will Stand this Season at Minlmbah. Terms: £36$.
per mare. He is 5 years old, bred by Mr. E. Larkin,
Appin, by Honest Tom, imported ; dam Lady Lin-
coln, imported. He served lit mares last season,
100 of them proved in foal. He is, without excep-
tion, one of the finest horses ever bred in Australia.
All mares to be removed and paid for by 1st
January, 1884.
Good paddocks. Every care taken, but no re-
sponsibility Incurred.
D. F. MACKAY,
Dulcalmah, Whittlngham.
TO STAND THIS SEASON, at Duckenfleld,
near Morpeth.—The Thoroughbred Stallion
HENCHMAN
(late Friday), full brother to Robinson Crusoe, the
Sire of Navigator, by Angler, out of Chrysolite,
will serve ten approved mares, besides his owner’s,
at Thirty Guineas per mare.
Also,
CROWN PRINCE,
by Kelp’e, out of Queen’s Head, by Yattendon,
out of Gazelle, will serve ten approved mares,
besides his owner’s,
at Ten Guineas per mare.
Splendid paddocks, and every care taken of
mares sent to the above horses, but no responsi-
bility incurred.
All mares must be paid for before removal.
Season ends on 1st January, 1884. Mares not re-
moved on that d.ate will be charged ten shillings
per week each up to date of removal.
JOHN BALES.
Duckenfleld, September 18th, 1883.
TO STAND THIS SEASON, at TOCAL.
PATERSON, the following Thoroughbred
Horses
THE DRUMMER (imp.) Subscription full.
GOLDSBROUGH,
By Fireworks out of Sylvia, by Fisherman (imp.)
out of Juliet (imp.) by Touchstone. He is Sire of
the following winners Katnilaroi, Morpeth,
Hilarious, Galata, Carmen, Empress, Tlllemby,
Wheel of Fortune, Sou’ Wester, Mileta, Kaipara.
Primrose, Lord of the Lake. Townely, King s Own,
Honeydew, &c., &o.
Terms .. .. 15 guineas each mare.
STRUCK GOLD.
Struck Gold is a beautiful dappled brown,
stands 16 hands, with splendid bone, great strength,
and beautiful symmetry. His pedigree cannot be
surpassed (as he combines the much-prize detrains
of Birdcatoher, Sweetmeat, and Bay Middleton),
which is as follows By the Miner (the only horse
in England that ever beat the mighty Blair Athol),
out or Wh.nnie (dam of Whip, a great performer,
and winner of seven weight-for-age races In one
season), by Pelion, out of Tapioca, by Sweetmeat
(the sire of Macaroni), out of Ellen Middleton
(Wild DayreU's dam), by Bay Middleton. The
Miner is by Rataplan (full brother to Stockwell),
out of Manganese,' by Irish Birdcatch- r, &c.
Struck Gold was placed second to Chester at the
late Intercolonial Show, beating Loup Garou,
Imported Bastley, &o.
Terms : £5 5s. each mare.
Good paddocks for the use of mares, with plenty
of grass and water. Every care taken, but no
responsibility Incurred.
Season commences 1st September, 1883, and ends
January 1st, 1884, when all mares must bo paid for
and removed.
Mares sent by steamer will be received at Mor-
peth ; by train at West Maitland, on receipt of
reasonable notice. For further particulars, apply to
F. REYNOLDS, Tocal, Paterson.
j-yj” ADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns
of
Dhessks, Mantles, &c.,
and
Wdnel’s Journal of
Fashions,
which contains the latest styles, are sold by the
following agents
George Slater, Stationer, 39 Oxford-st., Sydney
Mrs. Beales, Fancy Repository, Regent-st., Redfern
Mrs. T. H. Griffiths, Milliner, 335 Klng-st., Newtown
Mrs. C. Chapman, Fancy Repository, Church-st.
south, Parramatta
Principal Retail Office :
161 KING-STREET (near Elizabeth-st.), Sydney.
New South Wales Racing Com-
pany's Consultations
ON
MELBOURNE CUP.
50,000 Shares at 10s. per Share—£85,000.
1st Horse ...
8nd „
3rd
iFor 140
... £4000 Starters ...
.. 2000 Non-Starters
... 1000
Horses
... £1000
... 2000
.. £10,000
117 Prize Gifts—206 Prizes in all.
£4000
1 Prize Gift
2 ..
8 „
2 „ at £500 1000 1 40
4 „ at 230 1000
117 Prize Gifts ...
2000 | 20
1000 I 40
8 Prize Gifts, at 125 £1000
„ at £100 2000
„ at 50 2000
„ at 25 1000
£16,000
Application by liOtter only, addressed to the Score-
tary. No. 2 Wentwerth Court, Elizabeth-street;
or Box 255, G.P.O., Sydney.
All parties are requested to forward Drafts, P.O.
Orders, or Cheques ; if Cash, to register letters.
Results sent to Shareholders and published in the
Leading Weekly Papers of the Colonies.
The Drawing will take place before a Committee
of Shareholders.
W. BURNHARD.
Will positively close November 3rd.
GARTON’S HOTEL,
SWAN8TON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. O. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 345.
Jlcock&coTs
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES.
SOLE AGENTS:
cm ion mi co.,
375 George-st., Sydney.
ggr TIME PAYMENTS, IF IREQUIRED.
Sent post free for Is. stamps to defray postage.
“TRUTH,”
A TREATISE showing the under-surface evils
of society that cause Impediments to Mar-
riage ; Oelibacy ; Woman ; Advice to those about
to Marry Also, the Injury caused by the use of
Tobacco and Alcohol; How to Regain and Preserve
your Health ; &c., &c. Address
R. T. 8EBBY, M.H,
, DEVONSHIRE ST., SURRY HILLS, SYDNEY.
389 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
our-Lawn Mowers
are all GUARANTEED,
and bo confident are we of always being able
to give satisfaction that we will send
our L,awn mowers on approval.
W© make tk©
Liwa Mower Trade
a
■ ndhave in Stock all sizes, so the require-
ments of everyone can be met.
Our Prices range from 30 Shillings,
.ind any Purchaser who is dissatisfied aftei
trial, is at liberty to return the machine al
| our expense.
We Invite Inspection, and cheerfully
furnish every information.
Reliable
English and
American
FLOWER
AND
VEGETABLE
SEEDS,
kwi flnim,
Kentucky
Blue brasses, Sc c.
AMATEUR
and Professional
GARDENERS
should Call
and
Inspect our Seeds.
We hareerery Variety
and only the
Very Bent Grades
and Qualities.
bemember. we guarantee every lawn mower we send out.
TRICYCLES.
JUST ARRIVED, a large shipment of the
celebrated
Excelsior Tricycles,
For Ladles or Gentlemen.
t3?“ Send for list* and TERMS of Payment.
Repairs executed by experienced Coventry
bicycle makers.
BAYUSS, THOMAS & CO., 68 King Street.
Sale I
NOTICE to QUIT our STORE at 56 Clarence-street, having been given by Lister Henry, In conse-
quence of his requiring more room, we are
COMPELLED TO SELL OUR LARGE STOCK OF OVER
200 PIANOS AND ORGANS
before the end of this month.
This is the more unfortunate, as we have only just landed some beautiful instruments, which, by
reason of their excellence of finish, would command high prices, but which we must turn over even at
lower rates than our competitors ask for inferior goods.
Careful inspection and trial will infallibly bear out the truth of our statement and those of many
eminent authorities who have seen our instruments, that they are UNEQUALLED in AUSTRALIA
for VALUE, MAGNIFICENCE of FINISH, and RICHNESS of TONE.
Those who wish to see the most beautiful Model Pianos in Sydney are cordially Invited. No one Is
pressed to buy. OUR PIANOS and ORGANS SPEAK for THEMSELVES.
THE SMITH ORGANS, from 11 to 90 guineas, will be sold during the month at liberal discounts.
David Lee says “ By far the finest instrument of the kind I have ever seen.”
Julius Herz says ,r The nearest approach to the pipe organ which ever came under my notice.”
J. Churchill Fisher, the eminent Professor of Music, writes “I am happy to tes'lfy to the
excellence of your Smith American Organs. The one in use in the Public Training School, Fort-street,
has given general satisfaction. Its tone is pure and pipe-like in quality, the Kaolophon especially being
an exquisite solo stop.”
A Clergyman says “ During the last three days I have visited every music store in Sydney, but
have found your instruments far superior both in quality and cheapness.”
GASH : OR THE EASIEST TERMS. Illustrated lists on application to
CRAMPTON & BRUCE, 281 George Street,
OPPOSITE HUNTER STREET.
BOYD’S
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OVER PALING’S),
IS NOW OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged by
Mr. B. All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
N.B.—BOYD (OVER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
L. E. HENDERSON, Manager.
-A. DIG
THE PEOPLE’S CLOTHIER,
Is OPENING up, every day, a Large Stock of Choice and ’Fashionable MEN’S, BOYS’, and YOUTH’ 1
SUITS, TROUSERS and VES S, SAC, FROCK, and PAGET COATS, HARD a»d SOFT FELT HATS
WHITE and REGATTA SHIRTS, COLLARS, TIBS, and HOSIERY. Every article is marked ii,
plain figures, and at VERY LOW PRICES.
Both shops are thorougly chock full. Come early and inspect the Stock in both shops.
I keep the LARGEST STOCK of WORKING MEN’S CLOTHING in SYDNEY to choose from.
Be sure you find the right shops, when requiring CLOTHING OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
J. J. Ryan, 760 George Street, Haymarket;
And 466 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Markets, near Market Street.
TRICYCLES! BICYCLES! TRICYCLES!
THE SPARKBRUOK
NATIONAL
Tric^rcle,
The only penect Double Driver, being
fitted with the
Patent Differential Double
Driving 1 Gear,
Is the PRETTIEST, the NEATEST, the
NEWEST, the BEST,
Tricycle;
Has Ball Bearings to all WHEELS and
PEDALS, and is, from its Safety
and Base of Working,
Especially Adapted to Ladies’ Use.
The English Field, of 2nd June, 1883, says:—“The SPARKBROOK NATIONAL TRICYCLE U
driven by a gearing which forms one of the most clever and ingenious contrivances we have yet seen used
for this purpose. Its practical success is attributable to its simplicity. In its behaviour on the road it
full realised our expectations, both in ease of propulsion and the facility with which it can he guided
and controlled.”
PRICE LISTS, OPINIONS OF THE PRESS, TESTIMONIALS, &C..
ON APPLICATION to
M I CO., Silt Agents, 307 Ctirjt Stm
OPPOSITE HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.


“ A Selling Race.”—The Jews.
Mr. Marwood wasn’t drunk when he
bungled an execution recently. It was the other
gentleman who had a drop too much.
There are a lot of lawyers in Parliament
hut hardly one Journalist. Newspaper men are
generally a little particular about their associates
Heydon is right; the Fire Brigade Bill will
be a mistake if it gives a preponderating power to
the Insurance companies They have a great deal
too much assurance as it is.
A CHANGE.
Once it fashion used to be
We should learn our A.B.C.;
Now, we have a plan quite new,
And study but our I.O.U.
We notice that a Mr, George Case died in
London recently, leaving a considerable sum of
money, the Income of which will be applied “in
the promotion of free thought, unfettered learn-
mfL and frank utterances in matters connected
with reliaion, and the development, learning, and
highest culture of man.” Can this be the con-
certb'.i maestro, the wi ■I 'wcrof that old Australian
favourite, Grace Rgerton ?
EPITAPH,
i I ere doth lie
The bo-dy
Of John Fry,
Who was killed by
A sky
Rocket
In his left eye
Socket.
The following letter has been received
from Rome:—“ Deanum Sherrybus, Paddymarket-
nrlum, proximo Woolloomoolooous. You will of
«• mrseiim be damgladibus to hearum que theresa
• 'uncibus of your swellingupto fearful sizeum.
Wuorum now bos of whole situatiorum. Keep
jer hoofum on Father Mahoganyensis You are
,( ex for a while. Bemuinbramus to Dan O’Con-
noribus (avlck!) Is the Exphessionitm paying up
to decern centum per annum? Our blessingorum
in another envelopem.”
Lawyers should sleep well—it.is immaterial
on which side they lie.
The Forbes and Parkes Gazette con-
siders that the fact that a number of leading
papers are going In for a “ Sunday column ” is “a
healthy sign of the times.” Soltis. It is a sign
that those papers will soon be in their quiet little
graves.
This is good news. In the new Criminal
Uaw Consolidation Act, the offence of “ obstructing
a minister in the discharge of his duties," comes
under the heading of “Certain Assaults not Inde-
cent. Now, whatever is not Indecent must neces-
fir.yy b ® decent. We have always thought that the
Killing of local preachers should be legalised. If
we might offer a mild suggestion, we should say
that even this clause might be improved by offer-
ing a reward for their scalps. We are getting our
little hatchet ground, anyhow.
A reverend gentleman gave a lecture at a
Western town lately on “Love, Courtship, and
Marriage. The place has gone wild since then.
Half the garden gates are hanging on one hinge
«nd numbers of the young men are going round on
crutches. Also, several fine bulldogs have been
poisoned, and the price of guns has gone up to a
iearful figure. What a wily man this preacher
must be. He evidently gave that lecture to stir up
business. And, however it goes, he wins If the
courtship comes off, he marries them; If it doesn’t,
he buries him. And to think that we have missed
being in the Church 1
The Melbourne Medical Board consents to
register ladies holding diplomas. Female doctors
will soon, we suppose, be as common here as in
America. We have always believed in ladies being
allowed to practise medicine. It is only right that
they who are the cause of most of the broken
heads and broken hearts we hear of should also be
the cure. If we were the Board, however, we
should, before giving a diploma, makecertatn that
the applicant was pretty. And we would do this
under the firm conviction that the sight of a pretty
woman at his bedside would do more to cure a
patient than all the medicine she would give him.
We know It would be so in our own case. If w©
could have a nice-looking lady doctor to attend us
we think we would be ill all the time.
At the grave of a young Freethinker and
Spiritualist in Sydney, Mr. Charles Bright recently
delivered a lecture. There were no religious rites,
or mummeries,” on the occasion. A short while
since, in Melbourne, we were present when one
Walker “ received and baptised ” a lady into
Secularism. The other day, in France, a child was
carried by its mother to the font of Republicanism,
and its sponsors accepted the duty of inoculating
it w th sovereign contempt for Sovereigns of all
grades from a Caesar to a Beadle. The thing is
getting common ; but, unsettled though our
opinions are regarding sub ects religious and
political, we do not see the drift of this apeing of
the unmeaning ceremonies of systems which the
imitators are bent on overturning.
Mr. Gladstone met with an accident lately.
When fully understood, it can’t be regarded as a
serious one. He was staying at Hawarden Castle,
felling trees by day, and fixing up such little
matters as the national debt, and Wales’ connection
with the Langtry, while the midnight oil burned
low. For the Grand Old Man doesn't sleep, only on
rare occasions when he works himself out of a job,
and can’t find anything else to do. The dynamite
scare having eased up a bit, the police patrols at
Hawarden had been reduced, but a tip-top detec-
tive was engaged for special protection of the only
Gladstone at night. One night, at the hour when
churchyards yawn, he heard a stealthy step in
front of the Castle, and creeping up to the supposed
assassin fiend, the intelligent officer suddenly
sprang upon him, and was just proceeding to brain
him with his dark lantern, when he found to his
horror that he was attacking the Prime Minister
himself.
Mr. John Longfellow Sullivan (for that’s
the name of the champion American pug) has taken
a pledge never to “ drink behind a bar, or before
it, either. This gives Boston a longer lease of the
champion, as he was rapidly knocking himself out
with gin. Quite unexpectedly, he did not “ go on
a tear” even after he defeated Slade His estab-
lishment has been thronged with visitors since the
evening after the Slade contest, and within two
days the receipts were £500 over the bar. Sullivan
appeared in excellent spirits. When a N.Y. Jotjk-
nat. man called upon him one evening, the cham- J
pion received him in his private wine-room. The
champion was in his shirt sleeves, and a massive
stud illumined his speckless shirt front. He wore
a high white hat well down over his ears. He said
to the correspondent that the report that he had
sworn off ” was true, and he was glad of it. No
one, he said, not even the Marquis of Queonsberry
himself, would ever be able to persuade him to
take a drink of intoxicating liquor. “I am off for
flood, added the champion, and as he stepped out
nto the men’s saloon many visitors raised their
hats and saluted him.
Mr. S. Macdonnell, eldest son of the late
Mr. William Macdonnell. president of the Liberal
Association, categorically denies, in the Liberal,
statements falsely promulgated by clergymen and
others, to the effect that his father abandoned his
religious opinions, and embraced Christianity, on
his death-bed. Mr. Macdonnell denounces such
assertions as malicious libels on his father’s memory
and says;—“As a matter of fact, I may say that my
father s belief, on his death-be t, in revealed
religion, the divinity of Jesus Christ, and the
existence of a personal God, was a nullity.
Under these circumstances your readers can well
understand how difficult and unpalatable it must
be to orthodox persons to admit that my father’s
death was most peaceful and happy, he being per-
fectly free from any fears for the hereafter, and
breathing nothing but kindness and goo 1 wishes
to those around him. His sons, daughters, and
friends were those who felt unhappy at his death,
but not himself. Up to the last moment he not
only expressed no wish to see either parson or
priest, but actually hoped that neither would
come near to disturb his peace.”
Albino Malagoni is an Italian, although no
one would think so from his name. Having paid
the customary tw >pence —not for “ manners” this
time, but for a trip in the Balmain ferry-boat—he
passed under the stern of the Caraeciolo, a war-
vessel at whose mast-head Italy’s tri-colour was
flying, and observed Captain Carlo de Amezaga
taking a constitutional on the poop. Then Albino
brandished a stick at him, and, probably after the
manner ot girl-oglers on the block, curled his mous-
taofleln a threatening manner, and commenced to
whistle. For this he was taken in charge and fined
*3, with the option of two months’ gaol. He said
that it was to attract the attention of a friend on
shore that he became so demonstrative, but no
credence was attached to his statement. Now,
had this maccaroni-scofflng Malagoni expressed
ms contempt in the most pronounced fashion for
the commander of an Austrian or a French war
vessel, we could understand it. He might stand
on a Balmain ferry-boat and grin like one of the
monkeys his compatriots hump about the world,
and nobody would notice him. But to Insult his
own flag, and the brave sailor who so “shook up”
the Hebald staff the other day by his French
speech at the picnic, is beyond us. To our friend
David Buchanan we pass over this enigma, con-
scious that he, among all our acquaintance, is the
only one can do it justice.
According to little Kidd, the ex-M.L A.,
who is making desperate efforts to bob up to the
surface of the political horse-pond into which the
electors threw him and his crowd the other day,
the N.8.W. Minister for Education has “insulted the
Protestants by his manoeuvres, and a protest
should be entered against him.” Do you hear
what Kidd says, George ? Transubstantiation, the
Papal supremacy, and all the rest of those heathen
abominations should bo let rip now, and the Re-
formed Church raise its protest against you. And,
by the way, we notice that when the Campbell-
town Herald Is not describing phenomenal tur-
nips, it now devotes its talents to chanting the
praises of this Kidd. Well, the transition is easy.
Professor Blackle, uncompromising old
Radical that he is, has resigned the Greek pro-
fessorship at Edinburgh University to devote him-
self to a more genuine branch of “the humani-
ties, as the Scotch call Latin and Greek. He goes
in for Land Law Reform, and lately, speaking rela-
tive to the case of the Scotch Crofters, he snowed
himself as much master of live thoughts as he has
been of dead languages. He said:—“Let Greek
die, let Hebrew die, let learning go to the dogs:
but let human beings live—(cheers)—and let
human brotherly charity live, and let him go on
with his discourse. (Cheers and laughter.) Any
man who knew human nature could have prophe-
sied the whole series of events that has occurred.
Why? Why were laws made? To protect the
weak against the strong, the poor against the
rich. But the Land Laws of this country were
made by the landlords, and that for the purpose of
making themselves stronger. They might cal]
him the Scottish Parnell if they liked. (Laughter
and cheers.) He cared not a straw. (Renewed
cheers.) Those unjust laws enabled man to stamp
God’s name upon the devil’s work. The only
thing of which the Highlanders had been guilty
was that they had been far too meek and submis-
sive. (Cheers.) Experience had taught him that
nothing was to be gained in this world but by
roaring—(laughter)—making a tremendous noise—
(laughter)—and whether It was the lion that roared
or the ass that brayed—(lauirhtex’)—there must be
noise. He was there that night to roar,” (Laugh-
ter.)
Lecturing on the “Soul,” at St. Paul’s
(Melbourne), the Rev. Dr. Bromby touched upon
the curious fact that, however ignorant a people
was, it had always sufficient knowledge to manu-
facture some sort of Intoxicant to get drunk on.
It is there we have the real “ bulge ' v on the lower
creation. Animals can express their hopes and
fears, their loves and hates in tones easily under-
stood by their fellows. Birds are taught to
articulate speech and usually turn it to account
by revelling in the vocabulary of ribaldry. In
teaching a parrot to speak, a Methodist maiden
lady is simply “ nowhere ” in comparison with a
back-block ox-encourager. But, when it comes to
manufacturing alcohol, they are “ not in it ” This
is the real boundary they have never passed, and
the time is approaching when naturalists, remem-
bering this, will cease to differentiate man from
his poor relations by slight anatomical differences
or problematical mental superiority. The ques-
tion will then resolve itself into one of “ grog or
no grog.” And, as illustrative of “ how near some
of the lower animals approach to man in conduct,”
the Rev. lecturer told of a female ape who, finding
her end approaching, put her arm round her
keeper’s neck and kissed him three times before
passing In her checks. We believe firmly that Dr.
Bromby would not knowingly tell an untruth, but
we somehow fancy that he must have been incor-
rectly reported. At least, before finally accepting
the story, we would like to see the keeper. If he
is anything like some people are, we we think
enough has been said on this subject.
White men in New Guinea are, at present
in a bad way. The death of Professor Denton and
the collapse of Captain Arndt have effectually
euchred” the Argus expedition, while, on behaff
of the Age, Mr. George Ernest Morrison makes no
sign, and never may. All this looks bad for the
Syndicate; but let us trust that ollmatical draw-
backs may not prevent them from ultimately
carrying out their good work of buying up New
Guinea at one penny per acre, thus enabling the
nasty natives to die of starvation In the Christian
faith.
The eccentricity begotten of fashionable
desire for novelty, In London, lately took the form
of a Bazaar, In aid of building a Church at Berlin
To suppose that the royalties and respectabilities
cared one rap about any church at Berlin, would
be as huge a joke as to suppose they cared for the
hundreds almost daily dying under their carriage
wheels of starvation in the streets. But though
uncaring for either the one or the other of these
a fashionable woman is not so blind as to let a
Bazaar go by, when royalty has consented to make
It high-toned. So the Bazaar In the Fisheries Exhi-
bition, with the Princess of Wales as a saleswoman,
was a mighty crush. Ten shillings was the en-
trance fee, and ten shillings was the minimum
price which Her Royal Highness asked for flowers.
She was, of course, the attraction of the show—in
pure white, under the ordeal of a strong electric
light, framed by the flowers of her stall, and with
a front and background of gold and crimson dra-
peries, she stood for hours, to have her claims to
grace and beauty, canvassed by the critics. On
some steps immediately opposite the stall, which
command a good view, a party of ladies secured
seats at the opening, and till the doors were closed
three hours later, not one seat was vacated by the
staring dames. Other titled and royal ladies asked
far higher prices than the Princess of Wales. The
exhibition of the heir-apparent’s wife ensured the
success of the show; but it’s doubtful whether the
fate of the money scooped up for the church at
Berlin will ever be more definitely traced than
are the Sunday school pennies that are supposed
to supply bibles and breeches to the nigger boys of
Rumtifoo.
This is the way in which a Bathurst paper
gives a lift to the cause of temperance“ Nothing
seems nicer in a bar, especially in winter, than
good, bright, decent tumblers and wine-glasses,
food loaf-sugar, a well-polished counter, a bright
ot-water machine steaming away, a profusion of
nice lemons, and, above all, a cleanly, attractive,
and amiable barmaid. Men would travel a mile to
have a glass of hot whisky or rum in such a place.”
We should say they would. We have seen men
ride twenty miles to drink rum that would kill a
crocodile. But here Is the straight tip for the
teetotallers. If an amiable barmaid is such an
attraction, they should—if they want to crush out
intoxication entirely—agitate for gorillas to be
E laced behind bars: or, better still, they should go
ehlnd the bars themselves. Nobody who saw them
would have the heart to drink.
Printed and Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. (Limited), SI Rtt-at., Sydney, N.8.W.
THE SYNDICATE'S SONG.
We’ve a genius most creative,
And a project we have planned
For to utilise the native
Of a certain savage land:
Most sublime In its eflront’ry
Is our little scheme to make a
Fortune—buying up his country
At a penny for the acre.
’Tis a plan superbly splendid,
And displays the artist’s hand;
Here craft and cheek are blended,
In a manner truly grand.
For no matter how surprising
Be the nature of our ravage—
We can oall it civilising
The poor, misguided savage.
So we’ll labour with the penny.
Never ceasing in our toil,
Till the native won’t have any
Sort of claim upon the soil.
Then he’ll die In destitution,
For the good of white humanity;
Still, we trust, ere dissolution.
He will take to Christianity.
Knowing Old Birds.
According to M'Elhone!
