

THE BULLETIN
VoL 1—No. 12—New Series
SATURDAY, AUGUST 4, 1883.
Price— 6d.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 4, 1883.
Breach of Promise.
Wb learned, the other day, that the collective
wisdom of Fiji, as embodied in the Legislature
of that colony, so celebrated through count-
less ages as the Athens of the Pacific —the
home of moral philosophy and absconders—
has undertaken to repair a folly of the British
Parliament. In Fiji, actions for Breach of
Promise of Marriage are to be no longer
recognised. It is difficult to know in what
light to regard this manly independence on
thepartof theSonoNS of theerstwhile domain
of Winkt-Wum— the savants of the Cannibal
Islands. It is always difficult to trace back
to its motive social legislation. Just as the
great stimulus which the efforts to legalise
in Great Britain marriage with a deceased
wife’s sister has been ascribed to aspirations
by the Grand Duke of Hesse to the baud of
another of the Queen’s daughters, so it may
be conceived that the remarkable activity of
convictions on the subject of “Breach of
Promise” in Fiji may have originated in the
anxieties of some Lothario in official station
who has been philandering too diffusively
with the dusky beauties whose charms
agitate the susceptible with all the attrac-
tions of cocoa-nut oil and fig-leaves. This is
the most generous supposition which occurs
to us. The alternative speculations which
suggest themselves are not so gay. It may be
that in Fiji public opinion is hostile to the
recognition of any obligations whatever. A
considerable proportion of the founders of
the colony were, historically, men of a
heroic independence of temperament, and
voluntarily exiled themselves to those
secluded shores rather than submit to
the degrading exactions of creditors,
sheriffs’ officers, and other scourges of
modern society which so hamper the
gallant promptings which inspire the adven-
turous to plunge courageous hands into
other people’s pockets. The right to issue
promissory notes of love without making
any provision to meet them, may commend
itself to a community to which Pilgrim
Fathers originally imparted a sense of re-
pugnance to the ridiculous dictum that
obligations are undertakings which honest
men should discharge. And it would be
quite consistent that, when about to abolish
legal facilities for recovery of what is owing,
a beginning should be made in a safe and
not risky direction. Women are not repre-
sented in the Fijian Legislature, and, more-
over, no woman is likely to confess that she
resents withdrawal of a right whicn it is an
affront to assume that she would ever be
likely to require to exercise. There is no
chance of an agitation against the repeal of
the law permitting actions for Breach of
Promise. The male sex undoubtedly prefer
—apart from abstract considerations of jus-
tice-liberty to pass bogus notes on the
Bank of Matrimony at their own discretion
and without apprehension of consequences,
while every individual woman would resent
the supposition that her charms and attrac-
tions could prove unequal to holding firmly
and drawing easily to the matrimonial altar
any man who had once permitted himself
to be entangled in these silken bands.
* * *
It is to be hoped that the infection of an
example from Fiji will not spread. A promise
to marry is as serious an engagement as a
Promise to pay. Whether it be regarded
r °m a moral, a commercial, or a social
standpoint, the importance of such a pledge
13 equally apparent. The importance of a pro-
mise is, morally, measurable two ways. First,
y the direct injury which neglect to make
11 8°od inflicts upon the recipient of the pro-
mise; and, second, by the injurious re-action
upon the character and disposition of the pro-
mise-breaker. Commercially, the impor-
tance of a promise is measurable only in the
first way, so that the moral consideration is
more imp. rtant than the commercial. Yet
every code abounds with remedies for neg-
lect of a merely commercial promise to pay
or to do anything, failure to pay or to do
which would inflict injury ou another per-
son, or even deprive such person of a stipu-
lated advantage. It is an axiom of justice
that, wherever a wrong exists, a remedy
should be provided. But law, which has
perpetually usurped the place of justice,
long ignored the wrong that of a breach
of a promise to marry inflicts on a
women. This omission was only repaired in
recent time . And now w’e have a re-action
—in Fiji. Examples—even bad ones—are so
contagious, that it will be well to take time
by the forelock, and guard against any at-
tempt to imitate here the example of Levuka
* ♦ *
It has been the habit of critics o( the ex-
isting provision for breach of promise ac-
tions, to assert that the opportunities af-
forded are, as a rule, not availed of by the
kind of victims they were intended to bene-
fit, and that they have been habitually per-
verted by undeserving persons, adventur-
esses, and so forth. That these representa-
tions are in the main true, is almost incon-
trovertible. No one, who habitually reads
the English newspapers, can deny that the
majority of plaintiffs in breach of promise
cases are women whom to marry would
have been a misfortune. This to say, women
of small sensitiveness or delicacy of feeling.
Observation of reported cases leads, also, to
the conviction that the law is, in a minor
degree, perverted by adventuresses or
schemers. Thus it would appear that those
who are so constituted as to suffer most in
mind and in the disposition of their lives, by
matrimonial disappointment, are just those
who reap the least benefit from the law.
It would be possible to dwell upon the not
infrequent abuse of tlie Act by suit regular
conspirators—women who lay plots and exer-
cise wiles to entangle young men of means
into what ihe latter regard only as a passing
flirtation. Once a silly youth, or fond old
man, is beguiled into equivocal demonstra-
tions, or expressions of tenderness, he is a
sure prey. If he cannot be hooked into
matrimony, he, can be bled by a suit for
breach of promise. These are undeniable
evils. It remains to consider whether they
are so grave as to outweigh all contrary con-
siderations, and to constitute a sufficient
reason why the law should be abrogated
altogether.
• •
It will have to be admitted that as a rule
the sort of sufferers whom the law of breach
of promise is intended to relieve do not enter
the courts. Feminine delicacy shrinks from
the unveiling of a woman’s most sacred and
tender emotions, which the rude hand of
the legal hireling on the other side is sure to
effect with brutal and callous faithlessness.
It is a lamentable characteristic of the bar-
rister’s profession that members of it, how-
ever estimable they may be in every other
relation of life—although their hearts may
be as tender, their sentiments as chivalrous,
their sense of honour as acute, as could be
wished—habitually discard all self-respect,
and violate every principle, the moment
they assume the professional character. A
man who would fling in the face of anyone
who dared to approach him with a bribe to
bear false witness, or to plant one thorn in
an innocent bosom, a sum which would
make him rich for life, will, when a few
paltry guineas are slipped into his palm pro-
fessionally, stop at no iniquity however de-
grading. The paid advocate will—contrary
to his own conviction, even to his own
inward knowledge—exert every talent to
give that which he knows to be true the
colour of falsehood, to represent a pure
woman as a designing lecher, and to twist
the pained confusion of outraged modesty
and tortured sensibility into the semblance
of detected and embarrassed trickery. These
arts have been exercised over and over again,
until Courts of Justice has assumed, for
delicately-minded women, the aspect of
dens of torture and iniquity, and are about
the last places in the world to which a
woman, wounded in her affections and in-
jured in the prospects of her life, will bring
her bruised spirit for solace or reparation.
To a keen legal hireling, a wounded heart is
but what a “ raw ” is to a brutal cabman—
a point of vantage, a spot where a lash will
certainly cause wincing.
* * *
But when all this has been conceded—
when it is granted that the greatest sufferers
from breach of promise seldom enter the
courts—the case against the maintenance of
the law is still imperfect. The mere exist-
ence of such a law has a repressive and re-
parative influence. The knowledge that he
is liable to be brought to a reckoning, must
have some restraining effect upon the most
callous male-flirt. And the threat of pro-
ceedings is sufficient, in many instances, to
extort some reparation for an injured
woman. There are, besides, some instances
in which the injury done to a woman under
promise of marriage has been so extreme,
and has so blighted her life and deadened
her sensibilities with the pain of desertion
and shame, that even the lawyer’s gibes and
the public’s sneers are comparatively inno-
cuous; and only this law provides compul-
sory compensation, when that alone could
abate in some feeble degree the wretched-
ness of a blighted life. There is scarcely any
injury constituting a civil offence which
any man can inflict ujion another which
equals in its abiding results that which
breach of a promise of marriage may inflict
upon a woman. Marriage has been accu-
rately defined as woman’s only profession.
And whatever philosophising may be prated
about the beauties of mind and disposition, it
is quite clear that a beldame of 70 may have all
that is imaginable of that inward loveliness,
and yet be not at all likely to succeed in the
profession of marriage. To put the matter
plainly, youth and good looks are a woman’s
chief capital, and both are perishable com-
modities. Time-bargains, if not carried out,
are disastrous. The woman whose affec-
tions and troth were engaged.when she w»s
twenty, and who, at six and twenty, finds
herself jilted, has not lost merely a heartless
fellow for husband. She has lost all the op-
portunities of securing a better husband
which would have been hers during the
years of her betrothal, had her faith not
been plighted and her affections engaged.
A true-hearted fiancee, if she does not
actually repel, assuredly does not invite
those attentions which a glance would draw
forth. The fact that she is
woman keeps admirers at a non-ma-
trimonial distance. Men who might think
of her as their future wife, and centre
their domestic longings upon her, as the
mistress of the future home, check the cur-
rent of their fancy at the outset. At the
THE HON. DR. O’DOHEKTY, M.L.C., QUEENSLAND.


The Rates op Subscription to The Bulletin
are—yor one year,34s.: ball-year, 13s.; quarter, 6s
The Advertising Rates are 5s. per inch;
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for IS consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 36 consecutive insertions,
15 per cent.: For 53 couseouti re insertions, 35 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion.
Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above Is Rum made hot
and taken at bod-time.
PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6s. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS'
Siigls Mil Iifirtal,
market street.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET,
■where you can obtain for
©d..
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome of all Beverages.
a W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELI8H WHISKY,
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
3s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. 6d. per bottle,
C. W. ROBERTS,
Market Street, Sydney.
word “engaged,” rival suitors to her hand
draw off, knowing themselves to be defi-
nitely rejected, and seek other brides. The
fair girl of to-day changes into the somewhat
passec woman of six years henoe. The mar-
rying men of proportionate age are mostly
wedded before she is cruelly set free. For
the sake of a swindler, she has missed her
best chances in life. He has culled her
sweetest kisses, rubbed the bloom off her
young cheeks, drank the sparkle of her
merry eyes, and then turned aside to re-
commence the enjoyment with another,
leaving her soured, bloomless, and with the
light faded out of weary, sad eyes, to make
the best of the lees of her embittered life,
and of the dregs of her capacity for loving
and trusting.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Holy Church and Saintly Nobbier.
It is currently reported that the secession from
the Ministry of the Pope’s knight, Sir Patrick
Jennings, and the behlnd-a-hedge attitude of Dan
O’Connor and other Roman Catholic members, is
due to secret injunctions issued by the priests.
The rumour is that the tonsured gentry had
founded great expectations on the advent to power
of a declared advocate of Denominational educa-
tion, in the person of Mr. Stuart, and had fully
anticipated that some considerable countermining
of the present School system would be facilitated
during the term of the Stuart Administration.
It is a queer fact that the priests and the publi-
cans pull amazingly well together. The Roman
Catholic vote is perpetually being lumped with the
whisky vote, and the combined suffrages of these
two great institutions, the Holy Church and the
Saintly Nobbier were at the last election dumped
on to the men now in power. Mr. Reid’s adminis-
tration of the Education Act must have been gall
to the clerical expectants. The Minister for Edu-
cation has been providing rations of stones for
mouths expectant of bread. The Amended Licens-
ing Law was another disappointment; and hence
it may be expected that the holy league between
Rum and Romans will be revived to the utmost
pitch of activity. The power which the priests
assume over the political functions of their
laity is a perpetual menace to our repre-
sentative system of Government. To some
extent, this is common to the clergy of all
denominations; and electioneering parsons are,
perhaps, even more prominently common than
electioneering priests. But, at least, the parsons
are moved to a great extent by the same influ-
ences which may be supposed to actuate the
members of their congregations. The priests, on
the other hand, are the executive of a foreign
power, and may at any epoch And themselves
under injunctions to give effect to a policy, of
which the advantage is intended for France or
Germany, and which has been adopted without
reference to Australian circumstances or con-
ditions. It is requisite for lovers of freedom of
thought and human progress to keep always a
wary eye upon the manoeuvres of the emissaries
of Rome. This can be done without disturbance
of the pleasant relations of good citizenship and
good fellowship. The affair is simply a trial of
skill, and can be conducted with as much good
humour as a match at billiards.
Education in Victoria.
Bv 108 to 74 votes the Victorian Boards of Advice
have decided that religious instruction in State
schools should only be allowed in conformity with
the Education Act. To the uninitiated it may ap-
pear that in Victoria, the most democratic of Aus-
tralian communities, the cause of religious educa-
tion is not so desperate when it can find 74 advo-
cates in a heterogeneous assembly of 183, But we
happen to know all about it. In the country dis-
tricts of Victoria it is extremely difficult to induce
men to sit on the school boards at all. Those
who do obtain seats are frequently, in the absence
of opposition, elected without a struggle. They
are seldom representative men, and frequently
ignorant ones. It was said of one that, having a
grudge against a teacher, he steered through the
school one day in his shirt sleeves, and recorded in
the visitors’ book— “Discipline d bad; pencils
to short.” The boards never quite escape
from an enfilading fire of abuse—the De-
partment worrying them in front, the teachers
upending from the flank, and the public
occasionally attacking them in rear, just to
keep their spirits up and make things agreeable.
It is clear, therefore, that these men have no re-
presentative character. If, instead of 74, the whole
183 went straight for dogma, no change would re-
sult from it. If the denominationalists of Victoria
wish to ascertain exactly how the wind blows, let
them put a parliamentary candidate forward In
any constituency, and let him give a negative or
evasive answer to the inevitable question : “ Are
you in favour of the free, secular, and compulsory
clauses of the Education Act?” We recommend
this to those public men who are so anxious to
smuggle in, by the back door, the Bible—that
fruitful cause of heartburning that, a few year's
ago, was ignominiously bundled out of the front.
The short-sighted bigots who, with a view to dis-
integrating the Pope’s brigade in Victoria, lent
such effective aid to the establishment of a “god-
less” system of public instruction, now find,
when too late, that they have sharpened a knife
to cut their own throats. The Victorian State
school system is as godless as Gambetta could
have wished. It would, in fact, entirely suit
M. Paul Bert. In Victoria, things are on a fair
basis. The Christian Deity, the Jewish Jehovah,
and the Chinese Joss, get exactly the same amount
of support from the State. Each has a fair field
and no favour. In N.S.W, it is the God of the Con-
gregationaliste and “Dissenters” in general who
rules the roast, Jewish children, if they believe
certain statements made in the N.S.W. Public
School books, cannot retain the faith of their
fathers. In Victoria, the very name of Jesus
Christ has been expunged from the text-books.
The Victorian revolution is past. The thorough
secularization of the schools, the Black Wednesday
business, and so on, were a part of the Reign of
Terror. In N.S.W. there will be a little reign of
terror of the same kind, by and bye. Then we shall
put into the basket the heads of the bogus states-
men who, under the pretext of putting all creeds
on equal terms, filched from the Treasury a thump-
ing subsidy for one particular kind of white-
choker ism.
Savage Warfare.
A remarkable book lies on our table. It deals
with New Zealand affairs, and Mr. Rusden is the
writer. He tells us a good deal we already knew,
and a good deal we were quite ignorant of. Some
really useful information can always be obtained
by looking at a thing from different standpoints.
There is a Spanish history of the Peninsular War,
in which Wellington’s name is not mentioned,
Englishmen who have been suckled on Napier
should not forget Jomini. Mr, Rusden holds a
brief for the Maoris, and tells over again the story
of twenty years ago—the struggle of 1863-4. He is
severe on his countrymen generally, but one in
particular he singles out for mordant animadver-
sion. It is Mr. Bryce, the present Native Minister
of New Zealand. Nothing is too bad to be said of
him and the irregulars with whom he was mixed
up. He and they are accused of brutalities seldom
associated with English troops, regular or irre-
gular, since Rodrigo. In connection with this the
Wanganui Yeoman publishes the remembrances
of a Maori who took an active part in the cele-
brated Tauranga business—the Gate Pah. The in-
convenient memory of this “nigger” supplies the
Yeoman with a sad picture of how the troops be-
haved. It seems that shortly before the unsuccessful
rush at Tauranga, a few native children wandered
towards the deserted house of a settler to appro-
priate some geese and sucking pigs left behind in
the hurry of departure. While engaged in this
congenial occupation, they were surprised by a
section of colonial troopers,and—some getaway,
but the others are probably there still. This is
what the old Maori says:—“The lads ran hither and
thither. Two wore killed on the spot, and several
were more or less wounded; but these with the
others escaped the slaughter. One lad, about 10
years old, was killed by a stroke from a sword that
cut his head in two halves, one half falling down
over his shoulder; he had some revolver shots in
his chest and stomach besides. Another lad, about
12 years old, was killed by many strokes of a sword,
and was much out about, and shot with carbines.
Neither of these lads had arrived at the age of
puberty. Another boy, of about 13 years of
age, was cut over the head with a sword, and
would have been killed, only that he clasped his
hands above and on his head to save himself; but
the sword out off some of his fingers, and he fell at
full length under the horse’s feet. The trooper
then fired his revolver at him, and the ball pene-
trated his thigh, and then left him for dead. This
boy lived, and is alive now. He is a relative of
mine, and lives at Papatupu; his age now is about
36 or 27 years. Another boy hid in some water,
like a little crawfish. Several wore wounded, but
they got away and hid. None of this young party
had guns, pistols, tomahawks, or any weapons;
■ hey may have bad a pocket-knife or so with them
to out flax.” We don’t know whether or
not the Maori’s statement is true. But as
we happened to have been through the
whole of that “scrimmage,” we have no diffi-
dence In saying that, in the whole world
no troops could be found who, from the com-
mander to the pioneer, would have on the aver-
age treated uncivilized enemies as chivalrously as
the New Zealanders were treated by the British
soldiers of twenty years ago. Had Arabs or Tur-
comans been at the mercy of French or Russians,
as the two hundred Maories were at the mercy of
our men at Rangariri that November morning in |
’63, how many prisoners would have been taken ?
And yet every soldier knew that if he fell into
their hands a cruel death awaited him. Just as he
knew that a court-martial awaited him if he ill-
treated a captive. We have seen native women
and children, too, lying dead and dying beside the
brave husbands, brothers, and fathers they would
not desert; but wars are not made with rosewater,
and, under a stinging Are, when a man’s comrades
are dropping around him, he does not wait to learn
the sex of the person who flred. The anatomy of
woman approaches man’s so closely, that, when
she gets in the line of fire, a bullet in the vitals is
apt to be fatal. As Mr. Bryce intends to take a
civil action for libel against Mr. Rusden, it is just
possible that the Maori’s story of the alleged
Tauranga massacre may, even at this late date, bo
investigated.
The comprehensive recantation put in the Rev,
Mr. Osborne’s mouth by the Wesleyan Inquisi-
tors is now known to have gone far beyond what
Mr. Osborne himself conceded. It was merely
the slippiest way out of a difficulty, and the hum-
bug was Imposed on the public “ in the interests of
religion.” The thing was farcical on the face of it.
That, at the very time when Spicer and the Bishop
of Newcastle, and the Rev. Morning Herald,
were openly deriding anyone who were “simple
souls ” (the S.M. Herald’s own words) enough to
believe in the literal accuracy of the account of
creation given in Genesis, the public'should be
gravely informed that a man like Osborne sub-
scribed to the “ plenary inspiration ” of the Bible
was ridiculous. And, when all is done, it is quite
patent that even the concessions Mr. Osborne did
make were Galilbonian. Galileo is not the
last thinker who has combined prudential sagacity
with independence of thought, and has quitted a
tribunal of dunderheaded bigots murmuring “ It
moves, nevertheless.”
Mr. Alderman James Caret, informer, has been
shot dead at the Cape. We’re not aware who is
likely to have the vacant C.M.G.-ship. Two gentle-
men who recently distinguished themselves in the
witness-box In Sydney are understood to be aspir-
ants for the vacant dis-stink-shun.
Why do they go there? Why do they accept
positions in banks and remain for years with the
salary of a bullock-driver? It is simply because
foolish parents desire to see their sons gented. This
fatal notion (false as fatal) that occupation can
make a gentleman, is at the bottom of it. Great
banking institutions pay 35 per cent, to the share-
holders, and £100 a year to officers long in their
employ. When one of those officers forgets to say
his prayers or stays away from Sunday-school, and
succumbing to temptation in consequence, finds
himself in the dock with a fair prospect of a long
contract before him, there Is a public outcry re-
garding the inadequacy of salaries. But so long as
Society considers that the skilled and intelligent
artizan is an inferior animal to the quill-driver—
that, in fact, it is not chic to perspire at one’s work
—so long will foolish people be found to blast their
children’s prospects by launching them on a career
of genteel (hateful word) dependence, and so long
will great institutions pay starvation salaries while
dividing 35 per centum.
In a letter received at Brisbane, telling of
the late Governor’s end, Miss Kennedy writes thus
just after her father’s death: —“The blow has
fallen, and I am desolate. You will know by tele-
graph of my cruel and sudden loss. He was pros-
trate from the intense heat (90 degree day and night),
but I feared no danger till four hours before he
breathed his last, which he did like a little child—
painlessly and unconsciously. All the anguish was
mine—thank God; and he never knew that he was
leaving me. It would have caused him pain and
anxiety. I feel that it was well with him. At 10
a.m. Sunday, his body was committed to the deep;
and that sound I can never get out of my ears,
p. S.—The cause was failure of the heart action,
and Insensibility set in, the end being gradual and
painless.”
Strangely assorted trio —an Englishman,
an Irishman, and a Chinaman. It happened at a
gingerbeer factory at Cooktown. The story has
been sent us; and while we have confidence in our
correspondent’s truthfulness, it is only right to
point out that the weak part in the tale is that he
makes the Irishman the “boss ” of the concern in-
stead of the Chinaman. “Gimme thim karks,
howled the skipper in pure Anglo-Saxon. ‘ What
you call ’em ?” responded the Oriental, who prided
himself on his acquaintance with the language ot
Shakespeare and Sladen. “ Karks, karks, karks,’
yelled the Occidental. “Corks,” whispered the
Englishman to his Mongolian fellow - servant.
“Corks, not karks,” smilingly remarked the al-
mond-eyed, handing the bag to his employer.
Five minutes afterwards this poor Buddhist looked
like the “joker” in a dirty euchre pack. “The
haythen! thryin’ to taych me English,” was all the
explanation ever offered.
The notorious Captain Boycott, who
gave a new word to our dictionary and a new
"' i:ne to our calender, is back again in Ireland
., ing on the best of terms with his former perse-
cutors. Queer country!.... Oscar Wilde’s attire is
still much the same: a coat of a good shade of
brown, cuffs turned up at the wrist, and a necktie
and flower of dull salmonish-orange....The office
of Thomas Bailey Aldrich, editor of the Atlantic
Monthly, overlooks a burying-ground. The other
day a friend called and remarked on his pleasant
surroundings. “ Yes,” said Aldrich, glancing out
of the window at the moss-covered tombstones in
the graveyard, “ I have excellent neighbours; they
never send in any manuscript.”*....Mrs. Frank
Leslie, widow of the well-known New York pub-
lisher, is expected in London. She is young, hand-
some, and owns thirteen illustrated newspapers
and periodicals, which bring her an income of
£25,000 a year Madame Mfnck, one of the Com-
munists of Paris, recently had her infant son
christened Lucifer Satin Yerclngetorix Minck—
Before devoting himself to the propagation of bad
spelling, Josh Billings was an auctioneer. One
day he used so many “ cuss words ” from the
rostrum that a deacon remonstrated. “Never
mind, deacon,” said Josh, “ my oaths are like your
prayers—don’t mean anything.”
Kidney complaint, one of the most com-
mon and yet most neglected diseases of this
ceuntty, can be readily cured by the use of Hop
Bitters. See.
“ Homo at last, thy labours done,
Safe and blest, thy victory won;
Jordan passed, from pain set free,
Angels now have welcomed thee.”
Such was the epitaph a working man in Christ-
church wished to place on the headstone over the
grave of his departed wife. But the cemetery
where she was burled was under the control of an
Anglican divine; and as the deceased lady had not
been a lamb of his flock, and had left the world
without a proper passport to the realms of bliss,
the good man would not allow the modest epitaph
to be placed. He evidently considered it pre-
sumption on the part of the bereaved husband to
entertain such hopes as are therein expressed.
What should a poor woman, whose earthly lot had
been cast among soapsuds and children’s clothes
to mend, want skipping away among angels ? No,
no; poor people must remember to be “’umble,”
and not entertain preposterous expectations of
mingling with their betters in the celestial regions.
It has oome out in the Carter insolvency
that Hooper, whose “ sister” married Carter, had
been living with that party for ten years; and on
June 10th last, when her husband was “up to his
neck” in trouble, Mrs. Carter calmly “cleared,”
and lived again with Hooper until a tew days ago,
when both Mr. H. and Mrs. C. were committed for
trial for conspiracy. There is fine material for a
novel in all this; and, indeed, the incidents conjure
up in some degree one’s reminiscences of “ Basil,”
a novel by one Wilkie Collins. Hooper, after
living for ten years with a woman, palmed her off
as his sister, 'and Induced Carter to marry her.
Carter, it seems, married the lady, and was quite
unsuspicious as to her even having attended an
evening choir practice. Basil was the son of a
duke; and he fell, riding in an omnibus by fantasy,
in love with the daughter of a low draper. The
draper’s daughter secretly loved another man in
her own station of life, and the night before the
marriage—but there 1 novels are giddier than news-
papers, after all. Mr. Carter, however, finds him-
self in Basil’s position, only Hooper appears to
have had something like ten years advantage over
Basil’s rival. Under these circumstances wo cannot
but consider that Hooper was a bit of a glutton.
The tortures of Tantalus would not induce us to
say what Carter was.
An Irish sceptic attended Mass. Bewildered
at the magnificence of the ceremony, he turned to
his companion, and in a hoarse and solemn sort of
a whisper, exclaimed: 4 * Pat, me boy, this bates
the divill” Pat did not even turn his face to his
friend, but, reverently making the sign of the
cross, answered : “Jerry, me boy, that s the in-
tlntlon.” The holy Lord Shaftesbury, who ought
to know, says that not 3 per cent, of the work-
ing classes of England attend any church service..
Mr. Mackonochie, the ritualistic incumbent of St.
Alban’s, Holborn. has been finally deprived of his
benefice, and ordered to pay all costs of the trial. .
The Rev. Dr. Maurice Davies (author of “Or-
thodox London”) is in trouble at Grahamstown,
South Africa, whither he not long ago went as
curate of St. George’s Cathedral Church. She—for
being trouble there was necessarily dux femina
facti —was a young woman whose improper con-
fessions he had indiscreetly received in loco paren-
tis: at least, that’s his story—hers is that she indis-
creetly received his in loco amantis. The vestry
has given the doctor the sack, and left him to seek
redress by an action at law—Stanton, D.D. (Yan-
kee), says that the English clergy of the Estab-
lished Cnurch are miserable models in speaking.
He declares that he heard the late Archbishop Tait
pronounce the name of the city of Milan several
times at a meeting, and each time wrong. Likely
enough. Tait was anxious to preserve a compre-
hensive juste milieu, and doubtless avoided the
right pronunciation as too pronounced. Stanton
should interview Spicer if he wants really to gauge
declension of clerical twang from the vernacular..
The orthodox wail that the glory of Cambridge is
departed, since the agnostical Leslie Stephen has
been appointed Professor of English Literature,
and the ditto Huxley selected to deliver the Rede
Lecture of ’83 A Texas paper contains sub-
joined religious announcement:— Bull Fight, on
Sunday, Jan. 31, 1883, by some amateurs, for the
benefit of the new Catholic Temple of New
Laredo.”.... Joe Cook is at it again. He says he is
now mor© than ©v©r convinced that ther© is a
devil. Of course there is, or we’d never have
heard of the gentle Jeeoseph, for
“ We find it is taught in scores of wise books,
Heaven sends meat, but the Devil send Cooks.”
HOW THEY FARED.
[A MOURNFUL HICKS-SAMPLE OF VALOUR.]
Clang all the gridirons in Hell,
And get Old Nick to HIT a gong.
While we recite what once befel
The “ Prodestans ” at MIT-tagong.
We’ll sing to you how G. H. Reid
Gave quite the very ODD-est ans-
wer to the crowd who came to plead
The sorrows of the “ PROD-estans.”
’Twill make a very lively strain,
The sort of chorlc SONG geese sing—
The howl of keen sectarian pain
The ruffled Mitta-GONG-geese sing.
The Orange mummies sought to smite,
In high religious WRATH, a lick
At Knopp the Teacher, out of spite,
Because he Is a CATH-ollc.
So, when the train with smoke and steam
From Mittagong’s lone STA-tion went,
With it Intolerance’s cream,
Clothed as a depu-TA-tion, went.
They got to Sydney up to time,
There went to G. H. REID at once,
Who saw the Teacher’s midnight crime
Was but a different CREED at once.
He showed the Teacher was no scamp
Brought up in some un-RU-ly street,
And spread dismay throughout the camp
Of that thin file from TOO-ley-street
By letting them know, plain and plump
(G.H. that sort of Pl-geon is,
He doesn’t care a gasted dump
What any man’s re-LI-gion is),
He wouldn’t grant the little boon
The deputation PRAYED him for,
And vowed no Teacher ’neath the moon
Did better what they PAID him for;
Then, thinking he some salve to those
Who brought up this pe-TI-tion owed,
To steady down their wrathful throes
He read his Exhi-BI-tlon ode.
We do not know how many fell,
Or from that burst of SONG got back.
Nor whether they believed in Hell
When they to Mitto-GONG got back;
But clang out every Orange bell,
Get Brother Hicks to HIT a gong.
And swell on high a solemn knell
For the o’erthrow of MIT-agong!


ZE^OS^ZOCTTJS
OF THE
ffiiEffl TOWERS COW Ml COMPANY
(QUEENSLAND).
Capital, £24,000, in Sixty Shares of £400 each.
-Hrtnallv is a PRIVATE COMPANY or SYNDICATE, formed for the purpose of purchasing FOUR
This vn j; , qq LD MINES, together with Machinery, at Charters Towers, Queensland. Immediately
Hixtv shares are taken up, the subscribers will re-form into a Limited Liability Company of
000 in £1 shares. 48,000 shares, fully paid up, will be assigned to the original shareholders ; £4000
“rri. retained for working expenses ; and the balance of 12,000 shares will form a reserve—to be
offered to the public at 20s. per share, at such intervals as the directors may deem fit.
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS:
e , pnWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B.
A BRODRIBB, M.L.C.
HUGH (
Sir PATRICK: A7 JENNIN&S, K.C.M.G.
® H c.\ E 0°UGHNaS: Esq., M.L.A.
I Hon. H. E. KING, M.L.A. (Speaker Queensland
Parliament)
1 Captain W. H. ELDRED (Consul-General, Chili)
| JOHN HIGGINS, Esq.
SOLICITOR:
J. ARTHUR DOWLING, Hunter-street.
THIS COMPANY is formed for the purpose of working, under a perfect system of practical manage-
ment, the well-known Gold Mines, known as
the GREAT BRITAIN,
THE YOUNG ST. PATRICK,
THE NORTH AUSTRALIAN,
THE WASHINGTON,
situate at
CHARTERS TOWERS, NORTH QUEENSLAND.
Perhaps no part of Australia possesses such claim to public attention for its metalliferous wealth as
Northern Queensland, and yet, as a matter of fact, its wonderful mineral resources have been hitherto
comparatively unknown to those resident in the Southern Colonies. Foreign capital being unobtain-
ableuthe necessary slow development of the many goldfields was undertaken by the working miners,
who’ with only limited means at command, plodded on year after year, confining themselves solely to
surface working—improvidently squandering without thought of provision for future operations, and
abandoning rich permanent reefs immediately the water level was reached and steam machinery abso-
lutely a necessity. And yet in the face of this careless system of working, with the crudest of ap-
pliances, most astonishing results have already been obtained. Charters Towers, the most important
of all Queensland goldfields, is situated 80 miles from Townsville, and was discovered by Messrs. Hugh
Mosman, George E. Clarke, and 8. Fraser, in January, 1872. The prospectors, after due consideration,
marked off the prospecting claims “North Australian,” “General Wyndham,” and “Washington.”
Knee that period nearly
One Million Ounces of Gold
have been taken from Charters Towers, which bids fair to become the premier goldfield of Aus-
tral The eminent geologist, the Rev. J. E. TENISON-WOODS, F.G.S., F.L.A., in a recent report, writes
as follows: —
“To enumerate all the mineral wealth of Queensland would make a long list. I can only repeat
what I have said previously, that those mines already known are permanent and of immense value,
the true extent or which is not even guessed as yet; and of the probabilities of mines still to bo
QUEENSLAND HAS A MORE REASONABLE PROSPECT THAN ANY PART OF AUSTRALIA.”
A CLEAR UNVARNISHED DESCRIPTION OF EACH MINE IS HERE GIVEN,
Supported by
RELIABLE AND TRUSTWORTHY REPORTS :—
THE GREAT BRITAIN.
Lease, No. 338. Area, six acres.—This property takes the form of a small mountain, itself a perfect
mass of gold-bearing reefs. The ground is soft, and fairly impregnated with the precious metal. The
reefs In it are of great thickness, one in particular being opened out for 14 feet. A deep shaft (85 feet
vertical) has recently bottomed on a mundic reef, indicating by late assay 5ioz. to the ton. 1540 tons of
top stone (surfacings, <&c.) have been crushed for a yield of 1207oz. gold. This average will give magni-
ficent returns, ns 1000 per month could be put through at an expense for raising and crushing of 15s. per
ton. The MACHINERY consists of a newly-imported 12 h.p. Clayton and Shuttleworth engine, lifting
and pumping gear.
Mr. ROBERT L. JACK, F.G.S., F.R.G.S., Government Geological Surveyor for Queensland, in his
report to the Minister for Mines, says :—
“ I visited the workings in the ‘ Great Britain ’ Mine, which were being opened up by owners who
have recently taken possession. They were working at a depth of about 60 feet. The underlie or hade
is about 60 degrees. The country is slate, which to the depth reached in the mine weathers red, and
breaks up in small angular pieces, so that to distinguish between bedding, cleavage, and joint planes is
almost impossible. The hanging-wall .is distinct, but the foot-wall is never certain. The reef is at least
seven feet wide, and contains a good deal of quartz (showing a little mundic and some peroxide of iron)
scattered through a ‘gangue ’ of slate or debris. Gnashings from the mine have yielded 2oz. 7dwt. to
the ton.”
The report of Mr. NORMAN TAYLOR, late Field Geologist of Victoria, is appended:—
“ ‘ Great Britain.’—This lease of 6 acres lies to the northward of the town, on a tributary of the
Sandy Creek. The coumtry here is metamorphic slate. Near the south-east corner, the “ Band of
Hope ’ Reef comes in with a nearly vertical dip and a strike of the E. 15’ S. On the south-west side of
the claim is the * Great Britain ’ Beef, 7 feet thick, dipping northerly at an angle of 45*. Below it ap-
pears as if the reef had opened since its formation, and another reef been formed, there being two reefs
with a slicken-side (friction face) flucan vein showing vertical strike between them, and dipping E. 5' S.
at an angle of 33'. The ‘ Rose, Shamrock, and Thistle ’ Reef, on the north side of the claim, passes
through it. The hill is covered with quartz, from which prospects can be easily obtained anywhere.
The above reefs must junction below, and will probably be rich then. The whole hill, in fact, should,
in my opinion, be put through the battery, and would be found to yield good returns.”
The General Mining Manager, Mr. SAMUEL J. PEEK, in his last report upon the “ Great Britain ”
Lease, writes as follows:—
“The reef is very large. At 150 feet on the underlie the lode widens out to 12 feet, and yields from
7 dwt. to 22dwt. per ton, and, I believe, increases in size and richness as sunk upon. To work the ‘ Great
Britain ’ Beef to best advantage a battery should be erected on the ground, which could be easily at-
tached to the new 13 h.p. Clayton and Shuttleworth’s engine, on the lease. The old underlie is being
cut down to make room for a double truck way and pump. A very good set of double winding gear
and pump in course of erection. This mine is thought very highly of on the field, and promises to turn
out well. ”
Mr. HUGH MOSMAN, one of the original discoverers of Charters Towers Goldfield, in reporting on
this property, writes as follows:—
“ This is a small hill, composed of a mass of gold-bearing reefs in slate. This mine, to pay well,
should have a crushing plant erected as near as possible to the reefs, where it is assumed sufficient water
can be obtained for same. The ground is easily worked, and crushings have yielded hitherto from 7dwt.
to 4 oz. to the ton of stone.
THE YOUNG ST. PATRICK.
Lease No. 302. Area, 8a. 2r. 9)£p.—This mine is situated a little to the north of the celebrated “ St.
Patrick ” block, which up to the present has paid about £170,000 in dividends. At one time it returned
£3000 per fortnight to the fortunate proprietors. It is generally admitted that the “ St. Patrick ” block.
Mystery,” “Dan O’Connell,” and the ‘Young St. Patrick” form one and the same reef. The “Dan
u Coimell ” is expected to yield 3 oz. per ton. The “ Mystery ” is let on tribute and is paying well, one
crushing of 1000 tons returning over 2000 oz. gold. The General Mining Manager reports that the 90 feet
downright shaft on the “Young St. Patrick ’ has passed through two reefs, one a brown lode, com-
posed of oxide of iron and quartz, the other a mundic reef. The latter has been struck quite recently,
and will be quickly opened out. The same reef nearer the surface gave 2oz. per ton. Another shaft
'VUher to the east is now down 150 feet, and cannot be far off the “St. Patrick” lode. THE
MACHINERY consists of a splendid 10 h.p. portable engine and boiler (Clayton and Shuttleworth) and
double winding gear, erected between the two shafts, so that the same engine may wind from both.
Mr. R. L. JACK, the Government Geologist, speaks of the “St. Patrick ” as “one of the richest reefs
or the field,” and furthermore says it is distinguished by an unusual width of gangue.
follows -BORMAN TAYLOR, late Field Geologist for Victoria, in his Special Mining Report, writes as
“This lease—No. 302, named ‘Young St. Patrick of 10 acres, and is situated near the
racecourse, to the north-east of the township. Three shafts have been sunk on the south side of the
iv the new or whip shaft being 110 feet deep on to the Columbia Reef. The strike of this reef is
fvjf 5 ’ ,7-, and its dip E. 25‘ N. at an angle of 25*; but this is variable, as the reef seems to undulate or
fS. u - Itis 2W feet thick. Below this reef again is the ‘ Mystery,’ and probably the ‘ Rise and Shine ’ or
worth Star. Between the old and new shafts the stone assayed from 14oz. up to 28oz. gold per ton
re ,- is rather variable in thickness, cutting out and making again, and the stone is highly
mineralised. At the south-east corner of the lease is a permanent waterhole, on Mosman’s Creek
womngs on the north side of the lease (outside) give an average of 3oz. gold per ton. This propertv is
one of.the best on the field, and I can strongly recommend it.” 1 1 y
Mr. HUGH MOSMAN, In his report, writes as follows:—
“ This lease is situated in the centre of a lot of reefs which have yielded from 7dwt. to 6oz. to the
ton of quartz. The ‘Columbia,’ ‘Mystery,’ and ‘ St. Patrick ’ run through the ground, and as it is easy
to work compared to many others on the fleld in the matter of sinking and driving, on the different
reefs, it should prove a profitable mine to the owners on future development. A portion of the lease
includes a splendid water site for a crushing plant, and, of course, it will pay better by having such a
plant in connection with it. An adjoining claim is now raising 3oz. stone, and has for some time past
paid the shoreholders handsomely.
NORTH AUSTRALIAN.
Lease No. 333. Area, 10 acres.—This reef is portion of the first prospecting claim ever taken up on
the goldfield. The main shaft is now down 430 feet. Crushlngs hitherto have given 3oz. to the ton, and
when mundic is cut at about450 feet, very rich crushings may be expected.
Mr. NORMAN TAYLOR reports as follows on this particular property:—
“The reef known as the ‘ North Australian’appears to be a cross course to the celebrated ‘Day
Dawn’ line of reef. The ‘North Australian’ was the first line of reef opened on the Towers. The
three adjoining claims to the south-east have been very rich, over £35,000 of gold having been taken
from Lease No. 289, and over £40,000 from Lease No, 161 (Mosman’s original prospecting claim). An
underlie shaft, 80 feet deep, has been sunk in a direction of east 30' north, at an angle of 40', which,
however, is now full of water to within 35 feet of the surface. The shaft is 3 chains south-east of the
north-west angle of the lease. In the direction of west 10‘ S. 3% chains from the above shaft is another
reef underlying in the same direction. Poppet heads, forge, &c,, are erected on the ground, ready for
an engine to work the mine systematically.
A much more recent report from the General Manager of the above properties is appended :—
“Lease No. 333 adjoins the Mosman Gold Mining Company (which is now turning out5oz. mundic
stone from the 400 feet level), and is the same reef, part of which was taken up by the discoverers of the
fleld, and has been working ever since. There was little or no stone struck in our shaft to a depth of
300 feet, when a good soft formation commenced to make, and Increased as sunk upon. At the bottom,
430 feet, the formation is thiokly impregnated with quartz leaders, and there is every probability of a
good mundic reef being struck in a few feet. The present machinery consists of a 6 h.p. portable en-
gine, complete; one set friction winding gear; one No. 7 steam pump; also, engine-shed, blacksmiths’
shop, and requisite mining stores.”
THE WASHINGTON.
Lease No. 318. Area, 4 Acres. —This was one of the original prospecting claims granted to the dis"
coverers of Charters Towers, and preferred by them before all ocher reefs, owing to the large amount
of golden quartz visible on the surface. Down to the water-level very rich crushings were obtained
yielding over 5 ounces to ton. The influx of heavy water canned a cessation of work until steam pump-
ing gear could be procured. This has now been done, the water drained off, and golden stone is being
raised. Crushing should be commenced in August, and good dividends may be confidently expected.
The following is a comprehensive report received from the Mining Manager, Mr. S. J. PEEK :—
“The Washington is one of the first reefs discovered on the fleld, and was worked by Messrs. Mos-
man and party, the discoverers of Charters Towers Goldfield, in 1873. The first stone treated was taken
from the cap of the reef, and yielded 5 oz. of gold per ton; several large parcels of stone taken out
above the water level yielded from 1 to 8 oz. to the ton. Below the water level very little work has
been done, as the water was too heavy for a whip; and until quite recently no machinery was on the
ground. At present there are two winding and pumping engines working on the north end of the lode,
known as the Alexandra Gold Mining Compamy, and the other on this lease, at the south end of the
lode. The ground between the two is being worked by private parties. The Alexandra has turned out
a large quantity of gold. I cannot give the amount, but I know that about £8000 was paid in dividends
from a few crushings, before the present Company purchased the mine. This is by far the better part
of the lode, as all the shoots of gold-bearing stone are dipping south, and must pass through your
ground. Two shoots of stone, yielding from 3 to 5 oz. per ton, were worked to the water level and left,
one of which I struck 30 feet south of the 108-feet downright shaft. The level is 30 feet into the shoot,
which is from 1 to 3 feet, and shows gold freely. The lode is very strong under foot; if it continues
down, the next sink will turn out a large quantity of stone. THE MACHINERY consists of one
8-h.p. engine and boiler, one set of friction winding-gear, and a jack-head pump, all new, and in first-
class order.”
Mr. MOSMAN, in reporting on this property, writes as follows:—
“ From the surface to the water level very rich crushings, yielding over 5oz. to the ton, have been
obtained in the prospecting claim, and this was one of the original prospecting claims granted to tho
discoverers of the fleld, and preferred by them to other reefs nearer the main mass of reefs, owing to
the large amount of quartz and gold visible on the surface.”
TITLE.
“ There is the usual Government lease for each property—originally having twenty-one years to run
—subject to a yearly rental of £1 per acre.
“In purchasing these properties the Syndicate derives peculiar advantages, inasmuch as it takes
possession at a time when all the serious dead word and heavy expenditure are at an end. It may be
estimated that over £18,000 has been spent in dead work development and machinery alone before at-
taining present results. Each lease is now supplied with pumping and raising gear (steam) of the most
modern and labour-saving description. Briefly, the matter stands thus;—
“ Washington.—On good gold, sufficient in itself to pay satisfactory dividends. Eight men are now
engaged breaking down stone.
“Great Britain.—On a grand reef, 13 feet wide, which will pay regular dividends Immediately
stampers are attached ta the engine now erected. This can be effected in a few weeks.
“North Australian.—A very large amount has been expended on this property before arriving at
present level. Nice mundic leaders are now showing, and the manager expects to out the very rich reef
which in adjoining blocks has made the fortunes of many. It is just possible the manager's expecta-
tion may not be realised for a considerable time, and this doubt constitutes tho usual speculation of
mining enterprise. The report of the manager is conscientiously given, and if the reef is cut it should
yield a fortune.
“ Young St. Patrick.—Very nearly the same remarks apply to this lease, with the exception that it
contains several reefs which are more or less payable. The No. 1 South gave recently 907oz. from 295
tons. It is nearly a certainty that the famed ‘ St. Patrick ’ lode will be struck in this lease which means
something like £1000 per week. As a matter of fact it is not struck, and therefore the assumption of
big dividends from this particular source can only come within the province of speculative calcula-
tions.”
From tho foregoing may be readily gathered that the yields of “ Young St. Patrick” and “ North
Australian” are in futwo, but that the present prospects of “ Washington” and “ Great Britain” mines
warrant a belief in steady dividends to the shareholders. The claims can be easily managed by one
mining manager with a working overseer to each mine. Thus by a system of economic management—
the use of telephonic and electric, communication with the different leases—abundance of skilled labour,
tho absolute connection by railway of the goldfields and port, and last but not least, the existence of a
direct fortnightly line of steamships between London and Townsville (the port for Charters Towers),
results may be expected which in a short time should satisfy the most sanguine expectations. As
instances, may be quoted two Companies formed to work the (now celebrated) Day Dawn line of reef,
adjoining the North Australian. Tho first, with a capital of £34,000, has already paid £138,399 in divi-
dends since 1879 ; whilst the other, also having a contributing capital of £24,000 in £1 shares, struck a
few weeks ago (June) the reef, which was over 9 feet wide, and showing an estimated yield of 3oz. to
the ton. The shares are now salable at £10!
Terms op Payment
For each full share, will be £30 on application, £130 on allotment, and the balance (£250) by
promissory note at four months’ date, without interest. Application will also be enter-
tained for Quarter Shares (£100), £50 cash, and £50 promissory note at four months.
General Remarks.
Little as Charters Towers, Ravenswood, Thornborough, and other North Queensland Goldfields are
known outside their own immediate neighbourhood, they are destined in a short space of time to
become Important factors in the earth’s production of gold.
Instancingthe present position of Charters Towers alone, the Senior Gold Warden of Queensland,
Mr. P. F. SELHBlM, in a recent report to the Government, writes in the following strain :—
“ With a wider acquaintance and more mature experience of goldfields under my charge, I have
not seen anything that would make me alter in one single point the predictions that I expressed in my
last report with regard to the future of Charters Towers. Given the capital and the rational manage-
ment required to convert much ground hitherto neglected here into handsomely paying concerns—the
feasibility of which no competent person will deny for a moment—and the output of gold will be
double before long, with the natural sequence of twice the number of a well-to-do population.”
During last year, ten claims (out of manv) crushed 23,333 tons of quartz for a yield of 43,406oz. gold
and since the discovery of this field a few years back, geld to the value of £3,573,298 has been accounted
for by the Government escort alone, exclusive of a very large amount taken away by private hands
These brief statistics speak for themselves, and if such extraordinary results could be obtained with
limited local capital and Indifferent appliances for saving gold, it does not require the gift of prophecy
to picture the future prospects of Charters Towers.
Three eminent geologists—Mr. ROBERT L. JACK (Geological Survey
NORMAN TAYLOR (late Field Gehlogist for Victoria), and the Rev. J. E.
unanimous in their opinion as to the permanency of this fleld ; while Mr. Norn
report upon the different claims of this company, concludes thus :—
“ The reefs are true mineral lodes, and will be lasting ones. There can be no doubt as to the great
value of the properties inspected by me.”
Tho operations of the company are not merely based upon speculative research after narrow rich
veins, but comprise sound enterprise and true commercial mining in the working of large permanent
lodes of gold-bearing quartz.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES
will be received by the Secretary of the North Queensland Investment Company (83 Pitt-street
opposite Bank of New Zealand), under whose auspices this Company is brought out. ’
The following Brokers are empowered to receive applications for Shares :—
Messrs. Soutar & Hoare, 143 Pitt-street;
Messrs. Clarke & Co., 77 Pitt-street, Sydney, and 88
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
OVER THIRTY SHARES HAVE ALREADY BEEN APPLIED FOR, AND THE LIST WILL
BE FINALLY CLOSED ON OR BEFORE *
or for Queensland), Mr.
TENISON-WOOD8—are
Taylor, in his special
Wednesday, the 15th August.


Brilliant Lustre.
GOLD. Enduring Beauty.
rvhi* Motni—thH latest discovery of science- puts in the shade every substitute for sterling gold ever offered to the public. The best imitations heretofore produced are
and surpassed by the Brilliant Lustre and Enduring Beauty of the new alloy. So admirable is its appearance and
' Sped to apply it lo common uses. No tawdry arMes at
It is worked up into JEWELLERY OF
Perfectly indistinguishable from the most costly Sterling Gold Jewellery.
ALTHOUGH SOLD AT PRICES WHICH REPRESENT ONLY A FRACTION OF THE COST OF STERLING GOLD JEWFLLERY OF IDENTICAL WORKMANSHIP.
We want to do business with people throughout Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
RESIDENTS of SYDNEY and VISITORS from
the COUNTRY are respectfully invited to inspect
our Goods. We count It no trouble to show them,
and no injury if no purchase is made.
Farcels Iv Post, on
We are glad to have visitors, because we know
that our goods please everyone, and that those who
do not purchase will speak of our Jewellery to
their acquaintance in a way that will do us service*
ana no injury n no purcunse 10 mnuc.
No. 1.
Gentleman’s Watch, horizontal movement.
Oriental Gold case, open face with orya-
tal glass, with handsome Oriental Gold
Aloert, for " * i
To
0 0
2 0 0
No. 2.
Same as above, except that the watch has
hunting case, for
OT Please observe. We do not pretend that
these are fifty-guinea watches ; but we po affirm
that they are good, honest watches, excellent time-
keepers, articles which do us credit and give satis-
faction to our customers. In appearance they are
Indistinguishable from expensive gold watches.
No. 3.
Gentleman’s Silver English Hunting lever
Watch, capped and Jewelled, with Ori-
ental Gold Chain
Oriental Gold Compass Charm
Tasteful Breast-pin, Oriental Gold .. ..
Brilliant Alaska Diamond, Oriental Gold
Gold Shirt 8tuds, set of four
£4 4
0 12
0 7
£6 0 0
i sare customers the trouble of compiling a list, vr
The watch in the No. 3 parcel is a first-class
article, such as is usually sold at from six to seven
guineas. We deal direct with the manufacturers,
and on a large scale, and thus we get special terms,
and are enabled to share the advantage with our
customers. The Jewellery, we need scarcely say,
can’t bo told from sterling gold articles. The work-
manship is identical with the best. Thus, by buy-
ing this watch from us, purchasers, as a matter of
fact, secure the other articles as a free gift.
No. 4.
| A genuine Waltham Watch, nickel case,
open face, crystal glass, as supplied to
the N.S. Wales Railway Department,
with splendid Oriental Gold Albert ..£300
No. 6.
Same as No. 4, except that the Watch has
sterling silver hunting case, with chain
as before .. .. • ■ • • ■ 3 10 0
Note. —We buy these watches by the thousands
otherwise we could not sell them at the price.
re make up useful and attractive lists as follows
Sportsmen, Bicyclists, Pedestrians, and
Oarsmen—Observe I
No. 6.
A Kaclng Chronograph nickel-cased watch,
double dials, splendid timekeepers,
with patent fly-back, marking quarter
seconds, with Oriental Gold Albert ..£4 0 0
No. 7.
Same as above, except that this case is
silver instead of nickel, with Oriental
Gold Chain 650
Ladies ! Please Note.
No. 8.
Lady’s Oriental Gold Watch, handsomely
chased case, full jewelled, highly-
finished works, with handsome treble
chain, two slides and two tassels, of
Oriental Gold, only 2 15 0
No. 8 Is a gift which will astonish any re-
cipient. Each article is thoroughly good. The
action of the watch Is Identical with what Is put
into sterling gold cases, of same design, and sold
for £8 and £10, and there is no difference in the
appearance.
No. ».
Lady’s Oriental Gold Brooch and Earrings £0 IS 0
Lady’s exquisite Necklet and Locket, Ori-
cntal Gold * 0
Lady’s gem set Gold Ring (real stones) .. 0 16 0
£3 0 6
specially Observe.
If the articles d« not answer expecta-
tion on receipt, re-pack them at once and send
them back. If this is done within two days,
or, where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not Injured, we
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will return the
money for the articles not kept.
Every watch sold by us will be rated and accom-
panied by a written warranty for two years.
We have a very large stock of Earrings, Brooches,
ladles and gent’s Alberts, Rings set with real stones,
crystals, and Alaska diamonds, emeralds, rubies,
and Italian pearls ; Lockets, Necklets, Collarettes,
Fancy Charms, Breast-pins, Studs, Solitaire Neck
Studs (some very splendid Alaska brilliants). The
prices vary.
Send us from £1 to £10, with a list of what you
want, and we will make a choice for you to the
best of our judgment and forward same. If not
approved, and immediately returned, we will
refund as above, or make any desired substitution.
The foregoing are but a few assortments speci-
fied to save customers the trouble of making a list.
It will be sufficient when ordering to give the
number of the lot, and enclose P.O.O. for the
amount Payable to The Oriental Gold Co.
474 Qeorge-street, Sydney,
OPPOSITE MARKETS.
To save customers the trouble ot compiling a list, we make up useful and attractive lists as rouows
ONLY
This cut is the exact* size
and appearance of
THE REVOLVER for ONEPOUND!
A beautifully-finished article, nickel-plated through-
out, vulcanite stock. 32 calibre ; 5 shot.
Sent to any part of Australia or New Zealand for £1.
Oriental Gold Company, 474 George-st, Sydney.
* Beware of Imposters who out out this advertisement and stic k it in their windows over a common black iron revolver.
w.
THE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO.
im
are the largest consumers of American
Leaf in the colonies, hence the FI US I'
' position for quality is assigned to their Twist
and Flat Tobaccos— Yankee Doodle, Conqueror, Sir Roger (thick
twist), R C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture, and others.
CIGARETTES.— Thor CONQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold an equal position.
& S., Importers of Pipes of every kind. Cigars, and all Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods and Sundries.
H. P. GREGORY.
H. SHAW SMITH.
S. W. GREGORY.
H. P. GREGORY & CO..
Engineers & Machinery Merchants
AKE SOLE AGENTS FOB
Fav & Co.’s Woodworking Machinery Korting's injector*
Tanite Co.’s Emery Wheels and Machines Eclipse Windmills
Blake’s Brass-lined Special Steam Pumps Sturtevant s Fans.
A LARGE STOCK OF THE ABOVE ALWAYS IN OUR STORES.
as well as all
SAW MILL, PLANING MILL, AND MINING REQUISITES.
17 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
VIRTUTIS GLORIA MERGES.
COALCLIFF COAL.
rhia NFWEST and NBA REST COAL MINK to SYDNEY supplies the-OH BA PEST. CLEANEST, and
Phis NE .. THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony,
£1 per Ton net, delivered within city bounds.
This new XT'ft rel , th h rh^?L W o^e^n , S8^; XToi
more lasting, and (!lwvnerflrethatan>onier. it £ h rn^,™ p hllt it affords that domestic desideratum
Newcastle eoal nor doeillt«P inter andfly off like t! i e thorolJ?hly and cleanly as a
the steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwhole-
some fumes given off by a breeze or gas fire.
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
Office: A. B. BLACK, 247 George Street.
DEPOT; WOOLLOOMOOLOC) WHARF.
Hydropathic Bathing Establishment,
Corner of College & Oxford Sts., Hyde Park.
NS. W. RACING COMPANY’S CONSUL-
• TATIONS on METROPOLITAN STAKES
(To be RUN at RANDWICK, TUESDAY, Sept. 4)
and MELBOURNE CUP,
50,000 Shares at 10s. per Share—£25,000.
1st Horse £4000 I Starters ... £1000
2nd „ .. 30001 Non-Starters ... 2000
3rd ., ... 1000 1 —
For 149 Horses £10.000
117 Prize Gifts—306 Prizes in all.
1 Prize Gift .. £40t0 ■ 8 Prize Gifts, at 135 £1000
2 „ .. 3000120 „ at £100 2000
3 „ .. 1000 40 „ at 50 2000
3 „ at £500 1000,40 „ at 25 1000
4 „ at 350 10001
117 Prize Gifts ... ... £15,000
Application by Letter only, addressed W. BURN-
HARD, care Box 355, G.P.O., Sydney.
P.S.—Applicants will please state for which event.
All parties are requested to forward Drafts, P.O.
Orders, or Cheques ; if Cash, to register letters.
Results sent to Shareholders and published in the
Leading Weekly Papers of the Colonics,
i The Drawing will take place before a Committee
I of Shareholders.
Mvllineb, LEAMIKGTOSi.-STAN-
HOPE PHAETONS ; DOG, TANDEM, and
SPORTING CARTS; Barouches, Landaus, Coaches,
Harness, &c., Builder to H.M. the Queen, H.I.M.
the Empress of Austria, His Grace the Duke
of Beaufort. &c.. &c. Orders telegraphed (•*»».)
and executed in seven weeks. English prices
Coloured designs of latest fashions kept in stock.
WILKINSON, WILLIAMS & CO.,
Royle’s Chambers, Bond Street, Sydney,
Sole Agent* for Australia, New Zealand, Tasmania.


The Furniture Column.
THR MONTH OF AUGUST at the ROYAL
FURNISHING ARCADE.
Take advantage of present opportunities, and
make your purchases at The Royal Furnishing
Arcade.
83?" Thousands of attractive items at attractive
prices. Everything plainly marked. Reduced
prices in Bedding. Reduced prices in cedar,
mahogany, and walnut Drawing-room, Dining-
room, and Bed-room Furniture.
We here present our Revised Thirty-five Pounds
House Furnishing List.
For the sum of £35 prompt net cash,
You can Furnish a House as follows:
PARLOUR.
Round or Oval Claw Table
Cheffonier ...
Austrian Suite, consisting of couch, two
arm chairs, and six small chairs
Pier glass
Fair gilt frame pictures
Cornice pole, with rings, curtain pins and
brackets . ...
Clock
Pair lustres
Lamp
Fenner and irons...
Tapestry hearthrug
Matting for room .
Door slip
BEDROOM, No. 1.
Pour-post bedstead, with head and foot-
rails
Pair palliasses
Mattress
Bolster
Two feather pillows
Chest of drawers ...
Towel-rail, washstand and toilet set
Water caralfe
Rocking chair
Toilet table
Toilet glass
C. 8. chair
Table toilets
Matting
Door slip ••
BEDROOM, No. 2.
Single bedstead ...
Pair palliasses
Mattress
Bolster and pillow
Washstand and set
C.S. chair
Toilet table
Toilet glass
Matting
KITCHEN.
Pine safe
Pine table
Two chairs
Six meat plates
Six soup plates
Six pudding plates
Six cheese plates
Meat dishes, Is dd, Is 9d, 2s 3d
Pair vegetable dishes
Gravy boat
Set of 3 jugs
Cruet
Six china cups and saucers
Six china plates
China sugar basin
China butter dish
China milk Jug
China slop basin
Six china egg cups
Pair salt collars
Six cut tumblers
Six cut wines
Six knives and forks ...
Two table spoons ... ..,
Six dessert spoons
Six tea spoons
Kettle...
Boiler ..i
Saucepans, Is 9d, 3s, 4s
Frying pan
Gridiron
Tea pot
Tea caddy
Coffee pot ...
Wash basin
Tubs, 4s and 5s
Bucket ...
Dipper
Colander ,..
Two tin candlesticks
Knife box
Baking dishes, 8d, lOd
Rolling pin
Pepper caster
Flour dredge
Sot skewers
Nutmeg grater
Bread grater
Kitchen spoon
Meat stand
Hair broom ...
Washboard ...
Pair Hat irons
Scrub brush
Knife board and polish
Bread crock
Pair bellows
Set shoe brushes ...
Hand brush
Dust pan
PURCHA8R YOUR FURNITURE at the ROYAL
FURNISHING ARCADE THIS MONTH.
Good Investments for everybody.
Houses furnished for £16
Houses furnished for £26
Houses furnished fer £35
Houses furnished for £50
Houses furnished for £70
Houses furnished for £100
Houses furnished for £200
Houses furnished for £300
or for any other amount required.
REDUCED PRICES.
Special lines this month—the month of August.
A BEAUTIFUL LOT OF SUITES.
No. 1- £8 10
No. 2.—£10 10
No. 3.—£10 10
No. 4.-£11 10
No. 5.—£11 10
No. 0. —£13 10
No. 7.—£13 10
No. 8.—£13 10
No. 9. —£15 10
No. 10—£16 10
No. 11.—£16 10
No. 12. —£17 10
No. 13—£22 10
No. 14.—£22 10
No. 15.—£24 10
No. 16.—£25 10
No. 17—£26 10
No. 18 —£28 10
No. 19.—£29 10
No. 20.—£31 10
and
many others,
ranging
in
price
to
Forty
Guineas.
Note.— Orders for the Eight Pounds Ten Suites
should be booked two days before required.
CUTLERY.
A very nice lot of Cutlery, remarkably cheap.
Also, Special Lines in Breakfast, Dinner, Dessert
and Tea Services.
Campbell Brothers,
Eoyal Furnishing Arcade,
4Z6 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT TUB ROYAL HOTEL.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
He returned to the colony in 1855, and assumed
charge of his father’s stations. On the death of
his father he brought together at the old family
residence, the Mulgoa Cottage, all his stud stock.
Here he located Yattendon, Lord of Linne, Ves-
pasian, Chandos, and Darebin. Wool from his
Hocks won the champion prize of the world at the
late Paris Exhibition. He was a colonist of the
right sort—energetic, liberal, just.
Tbe Duke of Albany doubtless offered to
bo Governor-General of Canada in perfect good
faith, just as he once before offered to go into the
Church and be Archbishop of Canterbury. That
would have been a very good appointment per-
haps for keeping things in the family. The Duke
of Connaught will be commander-in-chief of the
army, the Duke of Edinburgh will command the
navy, and if Leopold had been Primate the trium-
virate would have been complete. As it is, the
young duke has given up all thoughts of the
Church and become a member of the Jockey Club.
There, at least, Is a sphere of usefulness where a
pure soul can do a great deal of good and arouse
no jealousy. The time has come when a Bayard of
the turf is due. The Queen’s youngest son might
do worse than let the colonial business slide, and
find a Newmarket for his many talents at home.
About 12 years ago, a manager ran a show
into Sydney and yarded It at the School of Arts. It
was mildly moral; it was a panorama. And as
there was a dog show on the day of its advent, few
went to the panorama. The whole thing had an
air ot spiritless dreariness, and as the curtain rose
a seedy-looking man walked uo to the piano. He,
too, looked forlorn. We thought he was. one of
Artemus’s wooden-headed players, and started
out. But he got his hands on the keys—and we
stopped. He just ran his hands from one end to
the other in one trickling run of melody—and we
sat down again. The hall was now full; not of
people, but with the living soul of music. Peal
chased peal, while all the time the supposed
wooden-headed man seemed without effort to be
rippling away. When the finale was reached, the
spell-bound audience burst the charm with ast .rm
of applause. The wooden-headed man was Charles
Sandy s Packer.
“jEgles” in the Australasian tells a
characteristic story of the late Mr. Learmonth, of
itfnrwood, the English hangman, is being
medically treated. He is suffering from “ over-
work.” , ,
Carey, C.M.G., has been recognised
r/indoa We wonder who in London has fallen
1® low as to recognise Mr. Carey.
Moncure D. Conway, the dearest friend of
p.nerson. has arrived in New York, and will sail
fl-oin ’Frisco for Australia i i about a month.
ruear Wilde is going to make another
owlish tour, after which he is desirous of visiting
f nelralia a project respecting which negotiations
have been re-opened with R. 8. Smythe.
The other day, in Brisbane, Lady , on
h«ing Inadvertently addressed by a sal -swoman at
pfrmey. Isles, and Co.’s as “ Mrs. ,” went for
the girl with her parasol!
When Matthew Arnold, amidst thunders
undergraduate applause, received his honorary
r degree, the other day, from the Chancellor
D ;mb ridge Universitv, In the usual form “In
of S ftitrii, et FUU, et Spiritus Saneti," some
shrieked but at the top of his voice, “ He
does’nt believe it.”
a n \trs. Langtry has accepted an engage-
of a few weeks only to the Southern capital.
SL e "* h B.H. and Oscar Wilde in London, to Mr.
Gebhart in New York, was a jump, and a
long one Indeed, but how shall we des-
P £he that to Melbourne and Mr. Reginald Bright?
This is a sliding scale with a vengeance.
Wanda” is the name of Ouida’s last
‘ The Saturday Review confesses to eing
ffprlv weary of the charade s and language of
KV an d winds up a scathing article as follows:
«n,,t tastes differ; and tinsel and ostentation and
whether they are met with in vulgar novels,
or in vulgar hotels, find unfortunately only too
many admirers.”
•‘The man of the future,” we are told by
♦ho nineteenth Century, will be a toothless,
hairless, slow-limbed animal, Incapable of ex-
tended locomotion. His feet will have no divisions
between the toes. He will be very averse to
So-hting ■ and will maintain his position in the fore-
«ies of time tw come solely upon the strength
d one or two peculiar convolutions in his brain.
We know lots of men like this already. In Sydney.
In Parliament. Yes.
Asks the Echo’s “TableTalkist ”“ What
ar. those Calcutta people see in the colonies to fill
. d h „m with envy ? They desire to develop-what ?
Parkescs Su,afts. Berrys, MTlwiaiths? Will they
an more for them than the Laurences, Macaulays,
RtPnhenses, Wellesleys, Inglises, the men they have
tnown?” The Inglises! Hem! They are, it will
ho observed, placed last. However, we can guess
the name of the Table-talkist “to a T.” To a
“Loyal Indian Tea.”
■It was at the meeting of the Fitzroy Bowl-
eg Club (Vic.) that Dr. Beaney, M.L.C., made his
last or latest speech. Melbourne papers call it
‘‘onnropriate." Of course it was—all his speeches
are F V e know the person who writes ’em. Irom
the bar parlour of the (you know the pub )
hotel in Little Bourke-street we could guarantee
to “ fetch ” hiraany night of the week, bar Sunday,
when he is to be found, as modest as an old parson
at a christening, warbling in the Collins-street Con-
venticle. Amen.
Captain St. John, husband of the eldest
daughter of Sir Hercules Robinson, has divorced
his wife on the ground of her adultery with Major
Rtevenson. The erring one made no defence, and
thus practically admitted her guilt. The most
onrious phase of this case has not yet been made
public. It is that Major Stevenson’s relatives
sided with him in the matter, took Mrs. St. John
under their protection, and wrote letters to Sir
Hercules impel atively demanding that he should
urge Capt. St. John to at once set the divorce law
in motion.
Thady O’Kane has started his daily. He
savs he is prepared to give it them-we quote him
and hot,” This will be a fitting change.
They seem to have been giving it to Thadeus “ hot
and hot ” lately. We won’t say we wish our new
contemporary all imaginable success,” because to
sav that would be dull: and we don’t like being
dull. But what we certainly do wish Mr. O Kane
is a happy issue out of his present and manv
victories over his future troubles. And we would
wish him even more than this, only we have now to
take in the milk.
There are two Wolseleys. While one is
enioving the “ swag ” earned by blackfellow-
slaughtering in Egypt, the other is wrangling with
a Bourke coach-driver over the box-seat. The
barling P.M. who adjudicated gave the coup to
that venerable fallacy that the box-seat of a coach
is in the gilt of the driver to squat whom he likes
on This question settled by one of the Wolseleys
on the Darling is a derned sight more important to
us than that other question not half settled by his
brother on the Nile.
The Mayor of Adelaide is a strict teeto-
taller, and many mutinous murmurs are heard
from the ratepayers and councillors. The Mayor
of Sandhurst is also a teetotaller, and—well they go
a good deal bevond murmurs in that unconven-
tional place, and take refuge in advanced profanity.
There are councillors and citizens in Bendigo who
have registered a fearful oath that, before they
elect another total abstainer, they are prepared to
pass the cocked hat and gown to Alfred Joseph,
the fat, moon-faced bookmaker, who is an alder-
man, provided they can get a hat to fit him.
The Macleod of Macleod is a red-haired,
pimply-faced Scotchman, who claims to own the
greater part of the island of Skye. Addressing a
meeting of his tenants lately, he expressed his
virtuous indignation at their request tor a rebate
of rent, ana hoped they were not to bring disgrace
upon themselves by imitating the bad example of
the Irish tenantry. One of the tenants said that
they did not think it any disgrace to try and get
food and clothing for themselves and little ones.
They had all large families to support, while his
lairdship had neither chick nor child, and if he did
not take what they were able to give they would
give him nothing at all. Treason! now, Hicks!!
Helena Modjeska is one of the great living
actresses who has won her way to fame by un-
flinching drudgery and perseverance. She is
Polish, and commenced to act at home when seven
years old. When she went on the stage, profes-
sionally, her small wardrobe consisted of two
dresses —a black one for tragedy, and a white for
comedy—and one pair of line white stockings.
We’ve known actresses to get on very well by a
skilful display of these last only, to say nothing of
two dresses. They don’t even wear one. But, then,
it wasn’t pure talent got them along. Modjeska
is now received and courted by the best society,
though she had a hard struggle up. Once, at the
end of a week of failure, playing Juana to almost
empty houses, she fainted off, and on recovering,
she could only say, weariedly, “I can’t, oh! I can t
act any more. It is not worth while.”
At Ipswich (Q.) Assizes. Attorney-General
Chubb deputed his father, a solicitor, to conduct
the prosecutions for him, whereat Harding (J.)
bucked, refusing to hear Chubb pere. The latter,
a rattish-looking, old red-haired gentleman, is a
poet of the Parkesian school, and some time since
Inflicted on us a volume of dirges from the effects
of which we shall ultimately die. Chubb, junior, is
also ginger-headed, but has not yet developed the
divine afflatus. He is a young political nonentity
whom M’llwralih, in his well-markeu fondness for
pliable colleagues, took into the Government. We
are glad to see Chubb, junior, is getting along. It
delights us to see that a man of his exalted station
has not forgotten or turned his back on the vener-
able ginger poet, his father. Filial piety is
indeed a blessed thing.
E. K. Cox, M.L.C., died last week at Fern-
hill, Mulgoa, of spasms of the heart, the result of
rheumatic gout. He was the eldest son of the late
Hon. Edward Cox, and was born in 1839 or 1830.
His mother, who is still living, was a daughter of
Captain Brooks, of Denham-court. In 1853, Mr.
Cox visited Europe, and there devoted one or two
years to the study of the breeding of merino sheep.
Krclldoun, Victoria, which reminds us of another
relating’ to that gentleman. The late Mr. Joseph
Sutherland —peace to his ashes I—a genial old Mel-
bourne Identity, Innocent of “side,” nominated
for the Melbourne Club, Mr. L., one of two
brothers who had commenced in a very small way
indeed, but are now among the wealthiest of Vic-
torian squatters. This nomination did not please
Mr. Learmonth, who enquired in bis loftiest man-
ner, “if anybody knew who was his father?” Up
jumped Mr. Sutherland —“Sirr, 1 ken very well
who Mr. L.’s. father was—an honest Scotch farmer;
and I ken very well, also, Mr. Learmonth, who
your father was—an hard-up Calcutta auc-
tioneer,” which rejoinder had the effect of keeping
away the would-be swell from the club for several
days.
Here is a hitherto unpublished anecdote
about the late Mr. H. M. C. Gemmell, of Melbourne.
One day that ready auctioneer put up lor sale a
copy of Edwin Long’s well-known picture, “The
Dancing Girl,” the original of which is in the
Victorian National Gallery. “ Don’t she show her
legs!" loudly ejaculated a vulgar Hebrew member
of the betting-ring. “ Yes,” retorted Mr. Gemmell;
“ but, then, they're not blacldeye.” And here is an-
other story of the man who, not so many years
ago, was at once the only picture-auctioneer in
Australasia, and the handsomest man in Melbourne.
A sketch by a Southern artist had just been
knocked down for £5 to a very eccentric new-
chum, the sou of one of England’s most celebrated
sculptors. “I hope he’s right for the money,”
anxiously whispered the poor artist to Mr. Gera-
mell; “I have been told he’s mad.” “I don’t
know about his means,” answered the witty
auctioneer; “but, having heard him bid £5 for one
of your pictures, I presume he is insane.”
“Wales” has a crowd of —(well, we won’t
give them a name) in Paris, if “ Stella ” of the
S.M. Herald is to be believed. She says that, at
a recent show of Worth’s toiletterie (if there is
such a word) several of the personal favourites of
the popular heir to the British Crown (all of the
moat creamy region and all exquisitely dressed)
assisted. The harem apparent of the heir to the
Crown ? Is this what Stella means ? And if she
doesn’t mean this, what does she mean? By the
way, Emile Zola, in his celebrated novel, “ Nana,”
makes one of the most distinguished of the
“patrons” of the heroine a certain Prince d’Ecosse,
to whose amours a whole chapter is devoted, and
who is so desciibed us to rendo It unmistakable
that the Prince of Wales is the original of the por-
trait. After this, we consider that Zola and poor
Stella should be hanged and the S.M. Herald
suppressed. We also consider that war should be
declared against America on the ground that the
Press of that com try has taken to stating that
Wales has cast his eyes on “ our preserve of pro-
fessional be uties.” There is a lot of rank treason
in all this. Hicks, John Davies, and Pastor Allen
should see to the matter at once. What a consola-
tion it is to reflect that the defence of the Prince
of Wales is safe in the hands of these noble men!
Here’s a new social idea. When your first
wife dies, marry again. Then, after you have got
Mrs. Blank number two, procure from Sydney a
tombstone, erect it to the memory of the dear de-
parted and give a big feed to all your friends, to
celebrate the joyful occasion. Then (Mrs Blank
number two being at the festive board, in com-
pany with all the rest of the members of your
family) stand up, “gooseberry ” glass In hand, and
descant on the many virtues of Mrs. Blank number
one—adding that she had no more sincere admirer
than Mrs. Blank number two—who. in fact,
was the chief moans of inducing you to put u <
such a gorgeous monument to the memory of her
predecessor in your affections. But don’t let your
little shivoo be at all of a funereal character. Don't
confine the orations to such themes as the
memory of Mrs. Blank number one. Be cheerful.
Propose “ Municipal Government,” and “ Law
Reform.” and "Pastoral Interests,” and “The
Ladies,” especially file live ones. And so on.
Then, next day, print in your own paper an
account of the affair, extending over rather more
than a column and a half. Perhaps nobody will
believe that such an affair ever took place. But
it. did, ad the same in one of the back-bloek dis-
tricts of N.S.W.
That remarkable pressman, the late
Richard Egan Lee, who was the thinnest and most
mournful-looking person ever seen, first distin-
guished himself, it appears, by writing in the N.Z.
Herald, a sensational story, entitled “TheTan-
' gled Skein,” and a poem, called “ The Lay of the
Last Maori.” He was a humorist of he first water,
and played practical jokes with the reckless aban-
don of a monkey. One of his customs was to come
home every Saturday night with the loss of a boot.
His greatest feat in practical Joking was to marry
a girl and bolt next morning to Australia. He got
on to a Bendigo paper, and was sent to report a
meeting on the Licensing question. Half-a-dozen
leading citizens wrote next morning furiously dis-
claiming the traitorous and abominable sentiments
which had been put in their mouths. The editor
inserted an humble apology, stating that he had
been imposed upon. Dick vamoosed at daylight.
He got employed on another Victorian country
fianer, and the proprietor invited him to write a
ending article. “Makeit warm lor somebody,” he
said, “the paper wants livening up." Dick did make
it warm—quite sultry,in fact. He wrote a shocking
libel on a lady of irreproachable reputation con-
nected with a rival paper. It began like this:
“ When a female baboon squats in a gutter and
slings mud at respectable journalists, it is time to
raise a mild protest.” The woman’s brother rode
many miles to horsewhip the writer. When he
arrived, Dick was lying out in the back garden,
basking in the sun, eating ripe pears, and quite
oblivious of the tornado that wa« raging in the
editorial sanctum When Dick went in, wearing
his usual sardonic grin, he found the apartment
like a butcher's shop, the atmosphere srreharged
with skin and hair and sulphurous oaths, and an
unfortunate proprietor lying about in sections
amidst fragments of a stockwhip and gr at pools
of blood, while a gigantic bushman was sitting on
the table breathing like a steam-engine from the
effects of violent exercise. Dick was adjud ed to
be too warm a member for the office. So he moved
on again, aed now he has handed in his stick and
gone to join the majority with the Great Father
of the Universal Chapel.
Personal continued on page 18.
Simple evolution — Lass-etude into lassi-
tude.
When Wolfe’s Schnapps was first intro-
duced here, the article was analysed by competent
chemists and pronounced pure and wholesome; it
is now and has been for many years a standard
professional remedy.
Pkiest: “Pat, I understand you are going to be manied again.” Discontented
Widowek: “ Yis, yer riv-renoe.” Pkiest: “ But your wile, Pat, has only been
dead two weeks.” D. W,: Yis, yer nv-rence; but sbure ain’t she as dead now
as she iver will be?”


THE BUGGIES OF THE PERIOD.
Unequalled for Durability and Elegance.
WAGGONETTES & EXPRESS WAGGON S
UT FIRST-CLASS WORK ONLY IMPORTED.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 2 & 24 Clarence-st,
STD NET.
m
o
m
b
P
o
ca
£
Os
P
3VAv'
BROOK’S SIX-CORD
SOFT COTTON
ON
NEW SHOULDER REEL
VERY CAREFULLY MADE
BROOK’S PATENT
glace: THREAD
HAND & MACHINE SEWING, i
i White, Black & all Colours j't MEW SHOULDER REEL.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO., LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO.. VALPARAISO. „ ,
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON—Head Office : HONGKONG.
Horizontal, and Vertical Engines,
a (Limited), Manchester—The celebrated " utto suent uas .angioes
imd Company, Paisley—-Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &c., &c.
. Company, London —Patent Dry Gas Meters.
-Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Principal Agencies :
J. C. Gostllng
The Tunnel P
Marshall, Sons and (Jompau, ijj.m.iou,.
Threshing Machines, Saw Benches, &c., &c. _ ,
Crossley Brothers (Limited), Manchester —The celebrated _ Silent Gas Engines.
Bow, M‘Lachlan and
Thos. Glover and Cor ...
Vivian and Sons—Yellow Sheathing
Penyrorsedd Slate Company (Limited)— Bangor Slates.
The Quicksilver Mining Company, San Francisco—Quicksilver.
Fels and Company, of Patras and Corfu —Currants.
Thos. Bell and Co—English Hams,Bacon, &c., &c.
Red Cross Preserving Company, Victoria—Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, &c, T .nj
De Wendel and Company, Hayange, France —Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plates, Iron and
Steel Fencing Wire, &c.
Thos. Perry and Son, Bilston—Flre-reslstlng Safes.
Drybrough and Co., Edinburgh—Ale.
Brunton and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse.
Thos. N. Hunt—Port Wine.
Duhos Fibres, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablls, Sauternes
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES.
New South Wales.—Scott and Mullaly, T. Allsop, F. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., G raham Bros,
Ji Victoria.—James Fry and Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
South Australia.—W. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hineks.
INDENTS executed, on the most favourable terms, from all parts of the world. Consignments
of produce received for shipment to London, under liberal advances.
THE COVENTRY MACHINISTS’ COMPANY
MAKERS BY SPECIAL WARRANT TO H.R.H. THE PRINCE OF WALES.
vA
TRADE MARK REGISTERED.
THE SPECIAL CLUB.
THE AUSTRALIAN CLUB.
Jut! IMi I Unify,
Intending Purchasers of
Bicycles & Tricycles
Should Write to Us or Call on Us.
As we have always on hand a full
Stock of THE CLUB BICYCLES and
TRICYCLES, we never fail to give
purchasers the best satisfaction.
Wo have permission from the leading
BICYCLE AND TRICYCLE RIDERS
OF THE COLONY to refer inquirers
as to the merits of our machines to
them, and we shall take pleasure in
doing this whenever requested, as their
good recommendation has already sold
for us a number of machines. Expe-
rienced Machinists inspect and adjust
every machine.
SPECIAL AGENCY:
THE IMPERIAL CLUB
THE CHEYLESMOUE CLUB.
389 George Street, opposite
Royal Hotel.
JUST ARRIVED ex S.S. KENT, a Large
Shipment of the Celebrated
“Excelsior” Roadster Bicycles
“ Excelsior ” Tricycles
“ Andrew’s ” Racing Bicycle,
As ridden by W. S. Hazllton, Amateur Champion
of Australia.
Send for Price List to
BAYLISS, THOMAS & CO., 68 King Street
A S O N T C
York Street.
hall,
M _
TUESDAY, 31st JULY, 1883.
SYDNEY PROGRESSIVE LYCEUM.
5th Anniversary Festival.
Tea
Son
at
Tea on tables at 6.30. Session, with Recitations,
ngs, Addresses, Calisthenics, &c., 7.30. Dancing
10 p.m.
CHARLES BRIGHT, Esq., will deliver Address.
Tickets, Half-a-Crown.
xxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxx
xxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxx
WE are showing in one of our
LARGE WINDOWS this week
SILKS, ex Royal Mail Steamship,
HORDERN BROS.,
Pitt-street.
XX . XX
XX 111 ~
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX . .
XX The STOCK of SILKS in our establish-
XX ment amount to nearly £12,000 sterling,
XX and the value that we are offering will
much surprise good judges. The win-
dow is dressed, and prices marked; and
any silks can easily be viewed and well
valued by intending purchasers.
HORDERN BROS.,
Pitt-street.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Black Gros Grain and Broch5 SILKS, XX
commencing at 2s 5d and ranging up to XX
20s per yard. The latter is about the XX
best in the trade out here. XX
HORDERN BROS., XX
Pitt-street. XX
We guarantee to supply at 4s 9d per XX
yard a Black Gros Grain SILK that XX
XX will not cut, 24 inches wide. Th’S special XX
XX line is usual’y sold at 6s 6d. Patterns XX
XX free to any part of the colony. XX
XX HORDERN BROS., XX
XX Pitt-street. XX
XX XX
XX Pink, Mauve, Strawberry, Cream, and XX
XX Lavender Broch4 SILKS and SATINS, XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
at 3s lid per yard, worth 5s 6d ; suitable
for balls and wedding dresses. Ladies,
if not convenient to call, will you kindly
send for patterns.
HORDERN BROS.,
Pitt-street.
All shades in plain SATINS at per XX
yard. Ladies, will you call and see XX
these Goods ? XX
HORDERN BROS., XX
Pitt-street. XX
XX
Ottoman SILKS, black and coloured XX
Ottoman CHECKS XX
Satin MERVEILLEUX XX
Satin De Lyon; XX
Purchased 25 per cent, off manufac- XX
turers’ prices, and are from celebrated XX
firms. XX
XX
Ladies, see these Goods. XX
XX
PATTERNS EREE. XX
HORDERN BROTHERS,
Pitt-street,
near King-street.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xx_
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
The great secret
of our Success in Pitt-street is we
have a Resident Partner
IN LONDON
(our Mr. EDWARD C. HORDERN),
and he by judicious employment of
Capital enables us to charge you
Extremely Reasonable Prices.
HORDERN BROTHERS. 211 Pltt-st.
D
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
HORDERNS’,
HORDERNS’,
HORDERNS’,
ON’T MAKE ANY MISTAKE. XX
XX
We sell much more XX
reasonable than at any XX
selling-off shop. XX
We never have to re- XX
sort to all kinds of ex- XX
cuses to do business. XX
We never ‘ INDULGE’ XX
In sellings-otf. XX
Yet our prices please XX
the public all the year XX
XX
HORDERNS’,
HORDERNS’,
Pitt-street.
Pitt-street.
HORDERNS’,
HORDERNS’,
Pitt-street.
HORDERNS’,
HORDERNS’,
Pitt-street.
HORDERNS’, round, and we are going
to sell at lower prices XX
than ever this next XX
Spring. Try us. XX
211 Pitt-street. XX
XX
XX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XX
XX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 10 th July, 1883.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR MINERAL
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the
Lessees execute and take delivery of
the undermentioned Mineral Lease within
thirty days from this date, it will be de-
clared void.
JOSEPH P. ABBOTT.
No. 1615; S. Owen and another; Portion No. 112
& 130; County of Gough, parish of Arvid; 40acres;
Application No. Vegetable Creek 652.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 18th July, 1883.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the
Lessees execute and take delivery of
the undermentioned Gold-mining Leases
within thirty days from this date, they will
be declared void.
JOSEPH P. ABBOTT.
Txtmut and Adelong Mining District.
No. 134; R. Trudgen and another; Portion No. l.
25; County of Wynyard. parish of Adelong; 10
acres: Application No. Adelong 91,
Bathurst Mining District.
No. 188; J. Fagan and others; Portion No. 69;
County of Bathurst, parish of Dunleary; 5 acres;
Application No. Mt. M’Donald 8.
No. 214; J. Reynolds; Portion No.231; County of
Georgiana, parish of Gillindich; 1 acre; Applica-
tion No. Tuena 141.
No. 215; E. Marks and others; Portion No. 117:
County of Georgiana, parish of Gillindich; 2acres;
Application No. Tuena 134.
No. 222; J. MTntyre and others; Portion No. 256;
County of Georgiana, parish of Tuena; 8 acres;
Application No. Tuena 155.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 20th July, 1883.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby giveu that unless the
Lessees execute and take delivery of
the undermentioned Gold-mining Lease
within thirty days from this date, it will
be declared void.
JOSEPH P. ABBOTT.
Peel and Uralla Mining District.
No. 297; T. Bakewell and others; Portion No. 233;
County of Parry, parish of Nundle; 6 acres; Ap-
plication No. Nundle 68.
THE FAVOURITE HOTEL IN GOULBURN.
o
E K
OUSE
Lessee, W. J. Wilson. Sub-Lessee, A. T. Downing.
Stage Manager, T. B. Appleby.
Treasurer, J. F. Goldsworthy.
The most successful Opera Bonffe of the day.
MANTEAUX NOIRS
(Black Cloaks).
N.B.—This famous work was performed for
Seven Months at the Avenue, London, and will be
produced on a scale of
UNPARALLELED SPLENDOUR.
THIS and EVERY EVENING.
Admission—Dress Circle. 5e.; Stalls, 3s.; Pit, 2s.
Box plan at Huenerblen's Music Warehouse, 411
George-stroot, where seats may be secured for any
date in advance. Day tickets obtained at
Stone’s, tobacconist, next Theatre.
Secretary to A. T. Dunning, A. N. Hallifax.
Theatre ROYAL.—Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & Musgrovk.
SEVENTH WEEK and continued triumph of
MISS JENNIE LEE,
and
Mr. J. F. BURNETT.
TO-NIGHT, and During the Week,
Mr. J. P. Burnett’s Farciful Comedy, in three acts,
THE GRASSHOPPER, or the CHANCES of the
CARDS.
Business Manager for Miss Lee, LIDDY.
HALL. MASONIC HALL.
For a short season only. Every one delighted.
Great Success of PROFESSOR
111! SIMON ! SIMON ! I SIMON 111 SIMON 1111
ill! SIMON 1 SIMON!! SIMON 111 SIMON!!!!
!!!! SIMON ! SIMON ! SIMON ! I! SIMON !! 11
!!!! SIMON! SIMON!! SIMON II! SIMON!!!!
Every Night Great Distribution of
PRIZES I GIFTS 11 PRIZES 111 GIFTS !! I
PRIZES 1 GIFTS 11 PRIZES 111 GIFTS 111
A GOLD WATCH will be Paesented to the LADY
possessing the most MUSICAL HEAD 1
A SUITE of DRAWING-ROOM FURNITURE
Will be presented to the GENTLEMAN possessing
the same.
A SILVER WATCH to the BEST MECHANIC.
A PRIZE to the most IRRITABLE MAN.
A PRIZE to the most AMIABLE MAN.
A PRIZE to the
Man Possessing “ Most Love for the Opposite Sex,”
Numerous other Prizes will be Distributed amongst
the Audience.
The Awards will be Professor while
The Novel, Original, and Marvellous
“Blindfolded” “Blindfolded” ‘ Blindfolded’
SEANCE. SEANCE. SEANCE.
DRAWING CROWDED HOUSES
EVERY NIGHT.
PROFESSOR SIMON
Combines Science and Amusement.
Received every night with enthusiasm, and never
failing to convince the most sceptical of the Pro-
fessor’s powers as a true delineator of chax-acter.
Doors open at 7.30, overture at 7.50, commencing
at 8 sharp. Carriages may be ordered for 10.15.
Admission—Gallery, Is.; body of hall, 2s.; re-
served seats, 3s., at Huenerbeims, Paling’s, and the
Private consultation daily, from 10 till 5.
GEO. STANLEY, Agent.
EDUCATIONAL.
MISS LYDIA HASTINGS Instructs in ELOCU-
TION. VOICE BUILDING, PUBLIC and
LOUR READINGS. Class at School of Arts,
FRIDAY, 4 p.m. (for Ladies) ; at Sydney Arcade,
Room 35, Wednesday, 8 p.m. (Ladles and Gentle-
IU Private Lessons, for Ladies or Gentlemen, 121
PHILLIP STREET. „
Terms for Schools or Clubs on application.
MONKS TROPHY!
X71NTRIES CLOSE for the above Event, at
XL! MORTIMER’S ROYAL OAK HOTEL,
Double Bay, on SATURDAY, 28th JULY, at 9
P ‘ m * H. L. STAFFORD,
Secretary,
ICTORIA HALL
Bourkb Street, Melbourne.
Lessee
Mr. F. E. HiSOOCKS.
The most Elegant, Fashionable, and Popular
Place of Amusement In Australia, well adapted
for any first-class entertainments. The Lessee open
to Rent or otherwise. Apply
WM. MARSHALL,
Lorgnette Office, Melbourne.
T
IHOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR OF THE
J ZULU WAR.
Theatre Royal, Rockhampton, July 9th to 31st.
Bundaberg, Maryborough, and Gympie.
Brisbane to follow, 9th September, with
NEW DIORAMA
OF
EGYPTIAN WAR!
W. H. THOMPSON, Proprietor.
SYL. RYAN, Agent.
AYALA a
<MHMNL ''k
iji
A
a -
V
’m out of form. Can’t keep up to work.
« oh, If that’s all, old man, I’ll have you as brisk as a
ticket in a jiffy. Here, Walter! large bottle of
.yjda’s White Label. This Is a wine one can’t get
verywhere; and if it doesn’t set you up, Frank, J’ll
ive you a new hat.”
rb Flip: a co.,
AGENTS.


It is a fact (yet not one generally known)
that Denillquln—that quite little town away down
on the Edwards—holds the best sheep-show in
Australia. The town Is the capital of the most-
extensive, and probably the wealthiest, pastoral
district In N.S.W. The great Industry la the wool;
and the Hock have been steadily and systemati-
cally Improved, till now they may be compared
with almost anything in the world. The entries
at the last show were very numerous and the com-
petition severe. The celebrated Wanganolla rams
won the champion prize. The enormous figure of
something like £2000 was refused by the owner. The
award to the champion ewe caused considerable
comment—a fact which points to an extremely
close contest. The second and third and the re-
commended exhibits in the champion ewe class
would win a prize in any part of the colonies. At
the sales, higher prices were reached than at
Sydney. A young Boonook ram (Falkner’s)
fetched 500 guineas, and a pen of five ewes 1250
guineas. Next year, keen rivalry is expected be-
tween the recently imported American merinos
now at Barooga and Boomoonoomoona. The show
was essentially pastoral; but the committee might
easily combine agriculture and manufactures, and
interest the local people. The banquet, prepared
in grand stylo by Morehead, of the Royal, which
followed the show, was a big success as a squatting
affair. The biggest men or the Riverine district
were present, the whole affair winding up in a
style which will probably be told of another time.
It is a well-known fact that some of the
racing consultations now announced are the most
barefaced swindles ever perpetrated. The draw-
ings of several in Melbourne are known to be very
shady affairs, the winners being neatly distributed
among a few interested people. If the public like
to invest, it is easy to select the men in the two
cities who conduct the drawings openly and fairly.
Mr. DeCourcy Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 120 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Departments undertaken. Titles a
special ity.— Advt.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HORKHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma- Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm, A single dose quietens and gives relief:
a small bottle often cures. Ask for ,r Arnold’s”
and get it; spurious imitations are sometimes
offered.
Nowhere perhaps has the dentist’s art obtained
such high excellence as in Sydney. Certainly we
are in no sense behind any other city. Visitors to
Sydney might, to test this, visit the establishment
of Messrs. Adolphe Gabriel and Company, 18 Wyn-
yard Square, two doors from Pfahlert’s Hotel.
Here the manufacture of every essential in the
profession is carried on. At the rear of the surgery
is a compact little factory where all the requisites
for supplying every dental defect in the human
mouth are made. Messrs. Gabriel and Co. (whose
only address is as above) are always pleased to
show their specimens of artificial teeth to those
interested. There being two firms of the same
name in the Square, patients will oblige by paying
particular attention to the Christian name-Adolphe,
and the number, 18, two doors from Pfahlert’s
Hotel.— Advt.
T>UBLIC NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
\
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 482 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
OR, TWO DOORS NORTH OP OLD SfiOP
SUNDRY SHOWS.
TloYAXi, “Grasshopper” Vide p. 10.
“Manteaux Noire” ib.
«Ta cannot say—being essentially truthful
” x if has now dawned upon us for the first time
T ♦ tdir ctorSi an d especially small actors, are
tb( lLVnusl v intolerant of criticism. Not at all. We
®° « vnown this for some time, and we have
have * we have never blamed either the
rl n nr the big actor for his Intolerance. As a
sma« ‘ n f fact, straight up and down dramatic
did not exist (see how modest we are)
cri Hf nnmnaratlvely lately. And now, what are
u ntd c , of criticisms worth? Well, not
‘ 0 will tell you why. All the actors know
who are, unfortunately much to
ah ' W n discomfiture, sometimes elevated “for
their " only” into tbe pos ition of critics: and
°S e the actors are especially friendly with the
i-nmvledsred newspaper critics. The effect of
?^ D friendshiP. we take it, is fatal to honest critl-
this 1 r Mowb f a y Morris, the dramatic critic of the
cj 8 ' 11 - . j L Gazette pointed this out in a book
he recently wrote for the purpose. It does
♦ follow that, because a newspaper man is on
? u>ndlv terms with an actor, he should be expected
: r lavish extravagant encomia upon his friend in
.irv niece in which he appears. But it most cer-
f'lnU- does follow that the friend should befavour-
hiv noticed, no matter in whatever play he takes
a nart We know a lady, and a gentleman, and
ft J-han’s another gentleman, who can, and would
Ftp to write honestly. But they don’t. A few
li,ips of well-earned gall, you see, would shatter
themirror G f the “pleasant social circle.”
* * *
As an instance of the false tone which
grades dramatic criticism in Sydney, we may
Pvtance the notices of Mr. Warner’s performance
Bannov in “Jo.” They were nearly all favour-
°w« And we will let you into a secret, and tell
whv Mr. W. Warner is one of the pleasant
circle formed by Mr. Burnett and his wife,
Ins'wiiich is attended by the principal critics. The
a iav of “Jo” is over (thank goodness) now; so in
Kwfprto illustrate our argument, we will state that
ir- Warner's impersonation was set down In the
mnersaa “pleasing,” “highly effective.” a “great
ss ” and the like. Now, as a stern matter of
?avt Mr Warner’s conception of Guppy was a
gainful exhibition. Mr. Warner—to be charitable
p had formed an entire misconception of the cha-
racter. He wasn’t Guppy; he was only some
Srondful monster evolved from the—well, brain
Mr Burnett. Yet, Mr. Warner got good notices
from'the majority of the papers. Then why
should this young man try to play better ? Why
ohmild he devote a day and a half to reading per-
haps the most powerful novel the world has seen ?
There is no reason, at present, that we can see,
whv he should. But the moment critics cease to
pander to actors, he will have to.
• • • «5W5»
In connection with this mild little intro-
duction we think a few heroics would not be out
of place. Here they are:—
The world is changed; and all remark with scorn
The honest critic’s occupation’s gone.
In other times, when Garrick held the sway,
And on the drama shed a lucid ray—
F’en he whose genius all the world allowed,
TTnto the critic’s bold acumen bow’d I
Then Churchill lived—but there! he’s passed away,
And Garrick is replaced by—Holloway!
« Actors as actors are a lawful game,”
So sang the critic, and we sing the same;
But, can you write in these degen’rate days,
What you think of players or of plays ?
* * * *
Such a crowded house; such a noisy gal-
lerv such a collection of pros.; and so much that
was interesting. There was dear old Sheridan in a
box and Miss Davenport, and Miss Myra Kemble.
Miss K is just over from New Zealand, and had
only time to comb the salt out of her eyebrows
before we saw her. Such a picture now. All pink
and white, and gleaming teeth, and a dress—but it
was too nice to talk about. There was Lily Marsh,
too chaperoned by the old lady and her sister; and
there was Harry Simmons bossing the show, vice
gawkins, who appears to have faded. It
was pleasant this cheerful reunion. Art, literature,
and the drama were all x-epresented. Especially
the drama. There was Sam Poole there, who told
us in confidence, that he had come all the way over
from Melbourne to go to a funeral. Yet he was
cheerful—not to say, hilarious. They were cheer-
ful but we were not hilarious. We don’t mind
telling you that there were two or three souhrettes
on the opposite side, with whom we would have
liked to have held cheerful converse. For though
we are now getting a good deal old, and a large
deal bald .... but we have now to go and
break up coal in our back yard, with the blunt side
of our little hatchet.
* * * *
“The Woman of the People” is a melo-
drama written by Frenchmen, and translated (not
Burnetted or “adapted”) by Mr. F. C. Burnand.
This being the case, we get the authors’ purpose
all the time. And more than that, we get their
dialogue. We have language that is as near
the pure poetic as melodrama will allow; and we
have the authors’ conceptions as regards situa-
tions, “business” and effects repx-oduced in their
integrity. “The Woman of the People” Is the
best written melodi’ama we have seen in Sydney
for many a long year. But it is not the best acted.
At the same time it is but fair to state that, so far
as we can judge, the piece obtained a complete and
pronounced success. The plot is refreshingly
coherent. Anartlzan, Baretrong—that’s how most
of them pronounce Bertrand —marries one Marie —
anglicised into Murray—and being led away by
Remy (a fellow labourer) gets awfully tight at the
wedding, and even when they have been house-
keeping for a year, and have a che-lld, still seems
to be on the same old drunk. The hub. has popped
all the furniture, the man has forcibly removed
the sewing-machine, the baker has struck, and
things are in a very bad way. Murray, however,
has saved up 30 francs for the che-ild, but while
she is gone out to try and get work for the old
man, who has partially sobered up, behold, Remy
comes in, and says that it-is his (Baretrong’s) turn
to shout for “ only fifteen of us” at the wine-shop.
Baretrong, while he has no objection to one last
“ booze” before signing the paper, proclaims the
fact that he is a broker. Remy suggests the pop-
shop, where upon Baretrong commences to ransack
the chest of drawers, but at first only finds two
old socks, half a petticoat, and a baby’s night-
gown. Finally a drawer is opened with a chisel,
and the thirty francs discovered wrapped up in
a towel. They collar the groed and guy, just as
Murray enters to announce that she has procured
work for Baretrong. Finding that he has gone
out, she goes to get the thirty frong to pay the
nurse for her che-ild. She discovers that the old
man has done a “collar” in her absence,
and resolves to take the youngster to the
Foundling. After putting the baby through the
trap, she encounters her husband outside in a
paralysed condition. She then asks him if this is
the same old drunk or a new one; and, after an
uncomplimentary allusion to the thirty frong, she
tells Baretrong he can go to blazes. Baretrong
can’t see this, and, knowing his name is not good
at the pub. any more, and that his only chance of a
straightener is with the old woman, cries: “ Mur-
ray, Murray, if you’ll only forgive me and set ’em
up this once, I will be an altered man.” But,
Murray retorts that he is more likely to be a
haltered man, and declares that she will never
speak to him again unless he brings her back her
che-ild. Then she goes off angrily O.P., while
Baretrong staggers back alone to the three-
roomer. Well, a certain Apiani gets hold of the
child somehow, and gives it to a baroness, to
whom Murray is engaged as under housemaid.
Murray recognizes the child, and they put her in a
mad-house. Finally she is got out of it by Bare-
trong, recovers the youngster, and all ends happily.
• * •
In this piece Mr. Bandmann, with (and we
are serious here) commendable modesty, contented
himself with thereof Kerny, a small low corfiedy
Part. This is, of course, out of his line; but he
was, if not funnier than a funeral, at least more
mirth-provoking than a shipwreck. Baretrong
was enacted by Mr. Augustus Glover (of the
Theatre Royal, Amsterdam), with great effect.
Outside the precincts of the House of Assembly,
we never saw a man so drunk. Mr. Arthur Rodney
played Theobold, a jeune premier who mashes the
Baroness, and he was so sadly solemn that in some
scenes he reminded us of a cow in a hoar frost
holding a boot in its claw. However, Arthur had
only been married the day before, so, we suppose—
et hUn quoi 1 This brings us to the Baroness, Miss
Jennie Gwynne, to whom he was married, and
who, so far as acting went, was in a similar pre-
dicament. But, we suppose— et hUn, quoi done?
Mr. Musgrave played a madhouse doctor with
great skill: but Mr. Charles Lobbett was dull as
Apiani. We may state, in fact, that his Apiani
didn't make us happy any. [Thunder !—Ed. B.]
* * *
The attraction of the piece was Miss Louise
Beaudet’s impersonation of the ill-starred Murray.
It was, with all its faults, a performance full of
light and shade—brimming with tender feeling,
pregnant with melting pathos. She made the
women cry all the time; and in the thirty frong
scene we felt a pumpkin rise in our throats, and
should certainly have given way had we not dis-
covered that we had left our tent-fly at home on
the planner. “ East Lynne ” is announced for to-
night (as we write this); but, if Dan’l will take our
little griffin, he will run “The Woman of the
People ” on, and give the whole town a chance of
seeing Miss Beaudet’s Murray, After the continual
exhibitions we have had lately of dreadful incom-
petence in actresses bolstered up by the saveloy
(and even sometimes the crumpled rose-leaf)
critics, Miss Beaudet’s performance is singularly
refreshing. It is very near .high art, if she would
avoid making her facial changes so strongly
marked. For the rest, Miss Blanche Reives gave
an imitation of a parrot that had gone wrong as
Margaret, and “ Miss Grace Fullamby ” (whom we
suspect to be Miss Grace Follande —for nobody
could be called “ Fullamby” and live!) said nothing
with exceeding eloquence as Old Margaret. The
scenery was capital, and the piece was received
with quite feverish enthusiasm.
“ Wha wad ’a thoeht there was sae muckle
in’t?” the writer of “The weary pund o’ tow”
would probably have remarked had fie dropped
into the Protestant Hall on Monday night, and
heard Mr. Kennedy’s rendering. In some Ameri-
can cavalry regiments, three men are required to
a horse—one to ride, and two to hold him on. In
Scotch minstrelsy, at least two are necessary—one
to write, and the other to render. It is in the latter
that Mr, Kennedy excels. The actor is no more
made than the poet, and he is a born actor. He
possesses the rarest of all gifts—the gift of show-
ing how much more there is in a story than we
imagined. With voice, gesture, and play of feature
he illustrates the homely Scotch songs. He comes
on the stage in the orthodox cut-away coat, and
begins to sing “ There nae luck aboot the h’use.”
As he proceeds, the swallow-tail becomes a home-
spun gown, the waistcoat a prim white apron, the
grey hair and whiskers a frilled cap tied under the
chin. The metamorphosis, though imaginary, is
complete. It is not the actor in conventional
evening dress who stands before you now, but the
auld housewife crooning:
“ There’s nae luck aboot the h’use,
There’s nae luck ava;
There’s little pleesure in the h’use
When our gude man’s awal”
Mr. Kennedy knows that comedy is his line, and
wisely leaves the sentimental business for the
younger members of his family. The entertain-
ment is pleasing, both for the absence of staginess
and the presence of talent. The troupe are just at
the close of a very successful concert tour in Aus-
tralia. Crowded houses in most places, their Sydney
reception has been especially hearty.
» « » •
“The Grasshopper” still at the Royal
with Mr. J. P. Burnett starring in the part (bless
him I) of Pygmalion Flippits. By the way, that re-
minds us that Jennie Lee is an equestrienne. She
goes out for a ride every day on a pony, while
little Warner accompanies her outside a horse. It
is rumoured that the Oxford people are beginning
to wish the Jennie Lee season over, as Warner is
gradually wearing out their step-ladder.
“ Mounted Police,”—no, “ Mountain War”
—at least “Manteaux Noire,” is a great and genuine
“ go” at the Opera House, and little Theodore is
having a terrific throw in. We are very glad of
this, indeed. By the way, Miss Ivanova is so good
in this piece that we have a thundering good mind
to print that little book of hers— type, pica italic
leaded. We will think of this, Annette, dear, for a
year or two, and let you know.
* * * *
Can you say Burnett’s bad, and Warner worse,
Or, then, to modulate satiric verse.
Leap forth and give it with a rhythmic ring,
“ Kate Chard is pretty, but she cannot sing ?”
You cannot do these things in this fair land—
That’s why we write with such a “ feather hand.”
* * * *
Oh, you can have any amount of It. You
can know that “Pluck” is a go at the Melbourne
Royal; that RIgnold has been playing “Alone”
and “Black-eyed Susan” at the Opera House-
having had, so they say, a split up with the Gifted
Trio. You can learn, too, if you are good, that
Fanny Liddiard is playing in Williamson’s Com-
pany in the “ Pirates of Penzance,” and that Mr.
Woodfleld, who plays Frederick, has been (poor
fellow I) suffering from a relaxation of the throat.
Miss Liddiard, by the way, has been playing Ruth 1
Wo wonder how she “made up,” Oh, and we
must tell you that the Polks are in Melbourne, too.
at the “ By.low.” They play an Arabian Night,
which is said to be droll. Joe Brown, we must tell
you, has been, and is now, Polk’s agent, and we
understand that his mighty brain is evolving a
Eiece for Mr. and Mrs. P. which will knock ’em.
everal hemispheres, so far as we can learn, are
looking forward to the pleasure of assisting at Mr.
Brown s play. All that we know about it is that
the piece is to be called “The Gander,” and that
the author is to bow his thanks from a private box.
* * * ♦
Pearrelle (we mean Luscombe Searrell)
has produced his opera in London at a theatre
called The Folies Draraatiques. This house is in
Queen-street, Long Acre, and has had a singular
career of misfortune ever since it opened. Every-
thing hitherto produced there has been a frightful
frost—even “King Methusalem,” by Henry S.
Leigh; but “Estrella ” seems to have mildly caught
on. Luscombe is kind enough to send us a single-
sheet poster, from which we gather that Camille
Dubois, who preferred an impecunious lieutenant
in the line to her invalid but wealthy and highly-
bred husband, Is in the cast. Camille, we suppose,
is a draw. We have no doubt of this, for ever since
Kate Vaughan was the means of breaking a good
woman’s heart, her salary has been trebled. Kate
Vaughan, by the way, is going starring shortly, in
a dramatic edition of Edmund Yates’s Broken to
Harness.” And, while on the beauty racket, we
have to sav that Alice Lingard has turned out
a frost after all, and Edgar Bruce, who en-
gaged her to star in “ Camille,” is pensive.
We were just going to shut up this par.,
but we suddenly remembered something—Royce,
the well-known acrobatic comedian of the
London Gaiety. He has, somehow, gone bung up,
and though he had been earning £30 a week for
very many years, found himself penniless. Some
£1500 was got for him, and Carados points out, as
we should in a similar case here, how pitiful it is
of an actor, after having earned this large income
for so long, to come begging from the public. The
very worst case Sydney ever saw of theatrical
begging was when Mervin was here. This good
gentleman to whom Musgrove paid £30 weekly,
and who spent hardly anything, piteously begged
money by means of benefits on two separate occa-
sions. And he got money; and he departed. He
was a frost here, but since he has been in London
he has been a frost all through. “Cymbria,” an
English comic opera produced at the Strand, with
Mervin in ar prominent part, turned out to be—
whatever may have been the merits of the work—
a disastrous failure. Mervin is now supporting J.
8. Clarke in comedy at the Opera Comique. £6 a
week.
* * * *
The full orchestra of three was knocking
the “ stuffin' ” out of one of Rossini’s overtures
when our landau landed us at the Masonic Hall on
Saturday night, to hear Professor Simon say a few
words on Matrimony. The house was unequally
divided between audience and emptiness. The
Professor’s discourse was chiefly on “ears,” and
was illustrated by diagrams. At a concert at
“ Hosting” he observed that as the “ andante” gave
place to the “ allegro,” all the people kept time by
various involuntary movements. They were all
“wagging,” as the lecturer remarked, except one
man, who sat stolidly in front of the big drum,
chewing tobacco. The music over the Professor
went for this undemonstrative person, and whis-
pered in his ear, “ My friend, you never wagged.”
“Alas!” responded the unimpressionable one, “I
have nothing to wag.” It appears that in marriage a
lot of unhappiness can be avoided by deferring
the ceremony until you have well examined the
person’s ears. If they are narrow at the bottom
and pointed at the top, like the bend In a boo-
merang, borrow a swag at once, and make for the
nearest diggings. Persons with ears like that can
never be trusted to hold a coat at a light, or go
round the corner for change for a shilling. They
have also an unpleasant habit of attacking one
from behind with anything handy. Involuntarily
we turned our eyes to a brother critic alongside;
and as his ears were well up towards the ceiling,
we withdrew unostentatiously, without saying
good night.
♦ » * *
Behind the scenes of the Gaiety. Sheridan
was ministering to Bandraann’s ideas of his own
greatness. The Herr caught sight of a very stylish
girl at one of the entrances. “ Who is she ?” he
asked; and the groat delineator of Leo XI. face-
tiously replied, “That is one of my girls: mine are
all pretty.”
The Hon. Kevin Isod O’Doherty, M.L.C.
A heartier or more “jaynial” man never
stepped on Australian soil than Dr.
O’Doherty, ®f Brisbane, a member of the
Legislative Council of Queensland, and for
many years prior to his entering the Upper
House, one of the most prominent Liberals of
the Assembly of that colony. Dr. O’Doherty
has, perhaps, fewer enemies than any other
man nolding strong opinions, and not back-
ward in giving expression to them, in all
Australia. When a mere youth—a medical
student in Dublin — he wrote a fiery
“leader” in the Nation. It was, as the
Docthor is fond of narrating—the only lead-
ing article he ever wrote in his life. And it
went a long way. It carried him to Van
Diemen’s Land, in fact, as a political prisoner.
On being released, Dr. O’Doherty returned
to Dublin, and pursued his medical studies.
There> also, he wedded “Eva,” a fair young
Soetess of the Nation, who had been his
ancee before the Government pounced
upon him, and who had waited his return.
Now, “Eva” is the Hon, Mrs. O’Doherty,
and her graceful form and refined counten-
ance are as familiar features in the best
Queensland society as they formerly were in
the gatherings of the youth and beauty of
Young Ireland. Dr. O’Doherty himself is a
man with whom it is impossible for even the
most incensed political opponent to quarrel.
He is the President of the Brisbane oranch
of the Irish National League, and as ardent
in the cause of his youth as though his head
were still untouched by the snows of time.
“TWA ’OORS AT HAME.”


PEPPER AND SALT.
It is a matter of congratulation—especially
to those lucky persons who move in good society
-“that Miss Clara Thomas was acquitted last week
of false pretences in connection with a charge of
obtaining a roll of cloth, value some £5 or £6, from
David Jones & Co. Miss Thomas is described—and
indeed, we can vouch for the accuracy of the de-
scription—as being “ of prepossessing appearance,
and elegantly dressed.” And it was furthermore
assumed, that the lady against whom the charge
had been brought, had formerly, if not recently,
mixed and mingled with the Hite of the colony.
We notice this little trifle the more particularly
because last Friday was Miss Clara’s second appear-
ance at the Quarter Sessions. On the former occa-
sion—as is well known—Miss f. was prosecuted by
Mr. Wigzell for obtaining certain goods—hair, or
or wigs, or something—under false pre-
tences. Well, on that occasion, the young
lady was triumphantly acquitted, and Mr.
Wigzell received a reprimand from the Judge
and was almost hooted out of court. This
of course, was only very proper. We can have no
sympathy with any tradesman (however widely
acknowledged his integrity) who would prosecute,
no matter the amount of his loss, a young lady of
“ prepossessing appearance and elegantly dressed.”
The jury—and they have our felicitations upon
the integrity of their verdict —acquitted the lady
on the ground of “ mistaken identity.” It seems
that Clara was only identified by the salesman at
David Jones’s, by the dressmaker to whom she
took the stuff to be made up, and by a few minor
persons. Miss Thomas, it seems, in the hurry of
making her purchase on credit, got confused as to
names, and stated that she was the daughter of
Dr. Kyngdon, of the North Shore. This was, of
course, only natural. What with the roar of the
traffic in Georgo-street, and the dazzling effect of
the shirt-collars and neckties of the “ David Jones
young men,” It is no wonder that the poor
young thing grew so confused that she forgot
the name which belonged to her. All wo wonder
at is that she recovered herself sufficiently on the
next day to go and carry the green cloth away
from the dress-makers, on the plea that one of her
relations had died, and that she must go into
mourning forthwith. We cannot but consider —
when the delicate nature of this trembling little
thing Is taken into consideration —this feat of once
again clutching the green cloth, hardly short of the
heroic. What annoys us is that Miss Clara Thomas
was ever troubled about the matter at all. And
what annoys us still more is that Messrs. David
Jones’ representatives did not receive, like Mr.
Wigzell did, a severe—no joke intended—wigging
at the hands of the Bench, for having dared to
bring before the Court “a young lady who was
elegantly dressed, and of prepossessing appear-
ance.”
• • •
We view with some alarm the intelligence
that the Sydney Young Men’s Christian Association
have undertaken the reform of the newsboys.
The newsboy of the present is a cheerful creature
whom we love, if we do not respect. He is often
ragged, frequently shoeless, and always dirty. But
he is picturesque. It may be a weakness, perhaps,
but we have come to look for that sooty smear
over the eyebrow, those pants with the picturesque
patch behind, the customary cooey, and the curious
curse. And who could Improve upon their rhyth-
mic cries—“Hi 1 Evunooze? Here yer are, Bul-
lartin ?” The newsboy has a ready wit, too.
“Got change for a shillun ? no, I ain t got change
for a shillun. Think I’m John Lucas?” Or here
is a better one. Tall snob, with over dressed
woman: “Get out of the way, boy.” Newsboy
(to his mate): “Ah, poor cove, he ain’t used to
walking the public streets arter just doin’ them
five years.” He smokes, does the newsboy of the
present, and occasionally chows. He is likewise
given to quiet rubbers at pltch-and-toss up right-
of-ways. But he is merry, and bright-eyed, and
Eassing industrious. Rumour (which nearly always
es) hath it that he is a bit of a thief, and a
good deal of a liar. But we do not
believe this. We have never since we
started locked up, on publishing dats, even the
office paste, and whenever a boy has told us that
he was a paper short, we have always believed him
—but we nave never given him the paper. Tangled,
tumbled, and muddy, the unconverted newsboy is
the Bohemian of the street; and, as such, there is
some affinity between him and the poor Press
writer. Once converted, however, and what shall
we see ? Why, close-shorn, bullet-headed youths,
with white collars and tin badges, who, when they
approach you, will touch their “ cheese-cutter
caps and offer you the Protestant Standard—
for that will be the only journal they will consent
to sell. If you decline to Invest, they will say:
“ Of no consequence, dear brother —hallelujah I —
and walk away with a grave and reverend step.
If you do purchase, they will present you, rolled,
in the paper, the tract “ How Little Bobby grabbed
a Halo,” or a copy of the beautiful poem beginning
“Pause, child of sin; for know it’s true
The mouth of hell does yawn for you.”
Those boys will never smoke, and never swear.
They will gravely serve you simultaneously with
a psalm and a supplement, with a paper and a
prayer. Their faces will be clean but shiny. Their
complexions of a paleness born of the muffin, and
the knees of their corduroys will be white by
reason of continuous “Hoppings.” Of course, by
the time the converted newsboy becomes an insti-
tution, The Bulletin will have ceased to exist,
and our staff will be all engaged on the Protes-
tant Standard writing leaders commencing —
“The miserable imbecile, who, surrounded by
hideous corruption and ludicrous mummery, is
styled Leo XIX.” etc. All this is very serious, yet
we just breathe. The Scriptures tell us ( r so we
interpret them) that It takes a camel some con-
siderable time before he can get through the eye
of a needle. By the same token we reckon that a
newsboy is not converted on sight. Our subscribers
may, therefore, calculate upon receiving a few
more papers before we fade into oblivion.
* * *
The Sydney Salvation Harmy now holds
its meetings nightly in a cellar under the Wesleyan
Church in York-street. The confidence—and this
1s a cruel thing—of the public in the Harmy has.
up to the present time, not been of sufficient
strength to enable Major Sutherland to procure
for the Harmy—what seems to be the dream of his
life—” an orl. But, though the Harmy itself may
bo said to exhibit feebleness in its general opera-
tions, its organ, the War Cry, is still in full blast.
We purchased a copy, the other day, from “ Happy
Jack” in Pitt-stroet, and were grieved to see,
later, that the holy vendor had got Into
trouble (persecution, no doubt) for alleged giddy
conduct with “Little Sister Salnty.” The last
number of the War Cry is a publication which
deserves to be read when Sladen is forgotten. We
have comic papers in this city which are not
comic; religious papers which are not religious;
“fearless exponents” of different things, which
will pander, in principle, to the donor of a double
ad.; but the only truly ingenious paper published
in this city is the War Cry. On a certain date, a
writer says:—“We went to get our swords sharp-
ened for the day’s fighting.” The faulchions hav-
ing been ground (or is this a metaphor for a
straightener ?) the cortege proceeded on its way.
“At the Central Police Court,” says the writer,
“ where the devil was raging a little bit, he thought
he was going to get it all his own way. He got some
of his servants to try and make more noise than
us, but he saw he could not get at us in that way.”
We can quite believe this. We have never seen
the devil ourselves, but even 8t. Dunston, wno is
alleged by truthful historians to have once caught
him by the tail with a pair of tongues, must have
admitted that he was never seen to arrive on earth
with four brass instruments each playing in a dif-
ferent key, and a drum with a “boom” in it loud
enough to awaken the Seven Sleepers. Not con-
tent with besting Satan in the matter of manufac-
tured earthquakes, the Harmy, says the paper, at
once commenced “ stirring up the devil and all the
people—telling them that they must repent of
their sins, or else they would die and be damned.”
It is no wonder—to quote the War Cry—that “ the
devil did not like It, and we are not surprised to
learn that “he stirred his children up to throw
refuse at us.” Even the patience or the devil
could not be supposed to last for ever. There are
very many touching things, though, in the Horoak
of the Harmy. Some of the confessions of the
converted are calculated to conjuri up the crystal
tear upon the alabaster eye-lash. Here is one that
we have wept over for several nights:—” I’ll just
tell the condition I was in before £ came to the
Lord I was sitting in a seat over there, and I was
so troubled on account of my sin I jumped up to
my feet, and in my hurry to get out to the
penitent-form 1 knocked three or four men
over.” But even this touching tribute
to the efficacy of the Harmy’s pow rs of
conversion pales before the following communica-
tion to Major Sutherland from “ a loving father,”
He writes: “ Glory I 1 have one boy who has been a
sincere but imperfect Christian for years, but has
now fully found the Joy of the Lord, and has gone in
heart and soul with the Salvation Army. Halle-
lujah I I have to buy him some new trousers, for
he has worn most of those he had out at the
knees.” It will thus bo seen that the War Cry
fully maintains its standard of excellence. In the
number we have quoted from appears a notice to
the effect that “ Happy Jack," who has sold over
g000 copies “ challenges Melbourne.” And now I
. . But the truly virtuous were ever martyrs.
* * *
Hopscotch has melted away in the golden
mists of even, tipcat has faded away into space,
and now the rhythmic hummer alone is dear to the
heart of the metropolitan youth. In other words,
tops are in. We know they are in, because there
Is a top club in our street which assembles periodi-
cally in front of the residence of a “ French dress-
maker,” who also, it seems by the cards in her
window, docs kilting on reasanable terms, and is
an artist in “ pinking.” There being a good attend-
ance of the members the other evening, wo stood
near and watched the game. It was highly ox-
citing. A top is put In a circle, and every member
keeps on winding up his top as fast as he can and
pegging at the top on the ground. If he hits
it, It doesn’t count; and if he doesn’t hit it,
there is no alteration in the telegraph board.
One little fellow (a new member) in a
Scotch cap and his sister’s boots, got up a
ferocious spin, but the string catching the peg
it whirled round his head and struck the president
just where David’s stone got Goliath. By the way,
we have never been able to get up much admira-
tion for David on the score of his victory. Here
was the giant marching slowly towards his foe, in
accordance with the Marquis of Queensberry’s
rules of the age, with his bed-post in one hand and
his buckler in the other, when, before he has a
chance even to smile in order to show there is no
ill-feeling, behold a piece of road metal out of a
catapult settles him. Bah I Give us a few rocks
with leave to keep our own distance, and you can
send along your giants. To return to tops. Some-
times they spun, but they generally often didn’t.
Then the top would bound up with great velo-
city from the pavement and whizz into the
thick of the traffic. We saw one catch a
lady on the right cheek, and another go
through a shoemaker’s window. The shoemaker
came out top in hand, and remonstrated. But he
was very properly put down by the vice-presi-
dent, who said—“Then why the h don’t you
put up the shutters ?” This crushed the disciple
of St. Crispin, who contented himself with bom-
barding the club with the top and retiring. It
was a capital game. Sometimes a top hit a man,
sometimes a woman, and occasionally a dog. Each
one, as Alfred would have it, “ entered heartily
into the spirit of the exhilarating sport.” One
irate pedestrian, however, went away and showed
his bruised eyeball to a policeman. The constable
accompanied him back, and at the sight of the
myrmidon of the law the club broke up in con-
fusion. We have written this little par. for a pur-
pose. Now the general public know that tops are
in, they will not Inconvenience top clubs by trot-
ting along the side-walks, but will supports manly
sport by walking in the roadway. We may men-
tion casually that a top club established Itself out-
side our office a fortnight ago, and ever since the
neighbourhood has been pervaded with the pun-
gent perfume of roast-boy.
What is, perhaps, the most interesting
long-distance foot-race of the century arises out
of a contest decided at the Manhattan (U.S.)
grounds, on 19th May, when William Steele, of
Scotland, champion of Pennsylvania, and Charles
Price, ex-champion of the world, raced ten miles
for a heavy wager. They ran evenly together, and
the first mile was made in 4 min. 56 sec. Price was
in the lead, with Steele within a cable tow of him,
and the same pace was kept up until the second
mile was finished in the good time of 10 min. 10
sec. The third mile was announced as 15 min. 9
sec., and the fourth in 20 rain. 48 3-5 sec.; fifth
mile in 26 min. 4 1-5 sees.; sixth mile 31 min. 19 4-5
sec.; seventh mile, 36 min. 43 1-5 sec.; eighth
mile. 42 min 9 1-5 sec.; ninth mile, 47 min. Si 3-5
sec.; tenth mile, 52 min. 40 1-5 sec. They held the
same position and pace up to the last lap, when
Steele forged ahead, and Price by an unfruitful en-
deavour to catch him, fell fainting on tne track,
and was carried to the club house. Steele’s ten-
mile time is the best on record in America. George
Hazael’s record was 53 min. 22)4 secs. L. Bennett
(Deerfoot) in England, on April 3rd, 1863, ran ten
miles in 51 min. 26 secs.
Maoe. writing from m verpool, o May 27,
savs that on the last night of his stay in Leeds,
“ &lade had his first English trial horse, a thlck-s«t,
tidy boxer, named Molloy, but the New Zealander
was master from beginning to end. Mace and
Slade sparred in several of the Yorkshire towns,
and in Sheffield drew a great crowd, but I shall be
pleased when June 20 comes, and I am on ray way
back to America. Slade has lost 21 pounds.” Mace
continues: “I have seen the principal sparrers h'jre,
and am really thunderstruck to see such exhibi-
tions. There is not one here, that I could not do
in a trot myself—at my age, too.” In conclusion,
Mace says: “ When I arrive in the States I will trv
and arrange two events, one for Slade to spar Sulll-
llvan, and the other for me to spar Mitchell, and
you will see what the little man can do with the
old master of the scientific game of boxing. I am
looking for the best man here to bring with me,
and for that purpose will have an exhibition in
London, as the swells have ashed me, and will give a
belt to the winner, and $50 to the second best. 1 shall
bring Burke over with me in any case, the man
who fought a draw with Mitchell.” This throws a
little light on the cock-and-bull yarn about Mace
and Lord Charles Beresford, concerning which the
paper says: “ This toadyism on the part of Mace is
absolutely sickening.”
What must strike everybody who reads
the accounts of the recent fight published in the
American sporting papers, is the enormity of a
man suppose-1 to be referee attending upon Sulli-
van, while Mitchell was left without anyone to
look after him. So far as can be made out, the
agreement was that no seconds or attendants
should be permitted. Also, it now appears that
the so-called referee was an intimate friend and
follower of Sullivan’s. One paper says that the
timekeeping was in the hands of a Mr. Smith, the
same we think, who figured in England as O’Leary’s
backer. It It is the same, he is up to every dodge
the sporting world possesses. Yet, how are we to
account for another announcement, evidently
made on authority, that the rounds were in no way
time rounds, as we understand the term in this
colony. Judging from internal evidence, one would
think Mitehell and Sullivan agreed to box four
rounds in the way men used to box before Queens-
berry or other time rules came into existence and
that each determined to try all he knew to upset
the other. Long before the Marquis of Queens-
berry gave his cups, long before a time limit for
rounds was so much as talked about, there were
glove-fights, and very hard glove-fights, too,
fought, the duration of each round being left to
the discretion of a master of the ceremonies- Be-
yond a desire to draw in the dollars, there was
little enough idea of anything in the mind of either
Sullivan or Mitchell. They did draw in the dollars,
and both should be highly satisfied; that both are
not the animated correspondence which went on
for a week after the meeting proves sufficiently.
Not only is Mitchell dissatisfied, but Sullivan is
dissatisfied also. He thinks that had he not held
Mitchell too lightly, he might have settled him in
the first round. Mitchell thinks that had he not
lost his head after bringing Sullivan down, he
would have been enabled to go on as he had begun,
and have eventually left off an easy winner. The
pair will meet again.
Little Miss Missing-Link.
Darwin died too soon. As the Spanish discoverers of Florida failed in their search for
the fountain of perpetual youth, so he failed in finding the missing-link. The fountain still remains
undiscovered, but the link has turned up in the person of a little hairy Siamese girl, who was lately
brought to England, and whose portrait we engrave. The only suspicious circumstanee about Krao
(that is her name) is, there is a pronounced lengthening of the lower vertebrae, suggestive of atail. we
thought this elongated back-bone business was just about played out, when this little Siamese child
turns up to confound us. The old saying attributed to Herodatus, “There is always something new
from Africa,” was Intended for Siam. It is well known that the hackneyed lines:—
“ Two souls with but a single thought.
Two hearts that beat as one,”
was suggested to the writer by seeing the Siamese twins; and now a girl with an embryonic tail comes
to the front, for the double purpose of confuting the Anti-Darwinites, and affording a subject for
metrical treatment. It is as well to state the reasons of the scepticism hinted at above. Some yearsago,
it will be remembered, European savants were driven half wild with excitement over the reported dis-
covery of an Island tribe, the males of which had tails a foot long and as stiff as the handle of a rake.
When they shifted camp, their wives, beside “ humping the swag.” had to start some hours in advance,
for the purpose of making holes in the ground to enable the warriors to sit down and take it easy. In
this strange society the heaviest crime was dog-stealing, and for this culprits with a foot tail were sen-
tenced to sit in a six-inch hole tor a night. This seldom failed to make them apologise. Ever since the
conviction for equivocation of the person who introduced this highly probable information into Europe,
we have set our faces against tails and hair.
A Pioneer’s Remarkable
Experience.
AN EVENTFUL CAREER. HOW A FORTU NE
WAS SPENT IN VAIN.
(From the San Francisco Daily Chronicle )
HE following communication from Captain^
* F. Swasey, the oldest pioneer in San Francisco’
and a gentleman well known throughout th
coast, will be self-explanatory :—
“ Editor of the Chronicle.—Sir,—Anything co n
cerning the history of an old Californian,
cially it he is extensively and favourably knov,'
throughout the Pacific coast, never fails to attra °
attention, but when the circumstances attendin
his career are of such a peculiar character that*
knowledge of them will benefit the public at largs*
the Imparting of such knowledge becomes 0() j
only a pleasure but a duty as well. Therefore, the
writer deems the following brief sketch not only
eminently proper, but also feels confident that it
will prove deeply interesting and beneficial to the
thousands who will read it. Colonel D. J. Williamson
the subject of this letter, entered the Union army i n
1861 as Regimental Quartermaster of the Fourth
California Infantry, and in 1863 he was appointed
by President Lincoln Cactian Quartermaster of the
United States Army. He served, with distinction
to himself and honour to the Government, untu
1867, at which time he left the military service, and
became a prominent operator in stocks in San
Francisco. In this business he continued until
1876, when he received from President Grant the
appointment of United States Consul at Callao
Peru. In 1871 he was appointed by General Grant
Consul at Valparaiso, Chile, and also Charge
d’Affairs of that republic, which latter positions
he was compelled by ill-health to resign in 1878. i n
the winter of 1861-62, a winter that was unusually
inclement, while on military duty at Sacramento
Colonel Williamson was obliged to sleep in tents
and then first contracted the terrible scourge of
rheumatism, from which he at times suffered ex.
cruclating pain, although he was not incapacitated
from duty. After he had left the service, and
entered upon business pursuits, the disease perti-
naciously clung to the system, although he had
resorted to the most eminent medical advice and
to every known remedy for relief. When he
arrived in Peru, where rheumatism is very preva-
lent, the disease assumed a still more virulent type
and his suffering became so utterly Intolerant that
he was obliged to submit to the application of
hypodermic injections of morphia, frequently
administered as often as 25 times in 24 i ours. He
visited the famous baths of that country without
avail, and when he reached Cnile resorted to the
baths of coquenes, and afterwarc s to the baths on
the summit of the Andes, which latter are cele-
brated throughout the world for their efficacy in
the cure of rheumatism. He still found no relief,
however, and in 1878 his knees and lower extremi-
ties became so powerless from the disease that he
was obliged to resign his position and return to
California. He at once repaired to the Paso Roblee
Springs, in San Luis, Obispo county, where he re-
ceived but slight temporary relief, the malignant
complaint continuing to torture and rack hie
frame almost witnout cessation. From 1878 until
within about two months he has been totally de-
prived of the use of his lower limbs, being abso-
lutely unable to perform the most simple physical
act without assistance. Some six months ago he
was induced by his friend, Ferdinant Vassault,
Esq., secretary of the California Pioneers, to try
St Jacobs Oil. It is fortunate he did so, for to-day,
after long years of intense agony and utter pros-
tration, he is able to w alk about with comfort and
without the aid of either cane or crutches. He
has discontinued all medical treatment and the
use of all narcotics, and he gratefully and most
emphatically attributes this happy results solely
to the use of St. Jncobs Oil. The writer of this
letter having himself been a sufferer from rheu-
matism, and having been thoroughly cured by the
same remedy, feels impelled by a sense of duty to
afflicted humanity to impart this information to
the public.
“ Yours respectfully,
“W. F. SWASET.”
The following letter to Captain Swasey, bearing
upon the above communication, will explain
itself :—
“ San Francisco, May 31,1883.
“ To Captain W. F. Swasey, Pioneer Hall, City-
Dear Captain,—Having carefully read the fore-
going, I cheerfully add my unqualified attestation
to the truthfulness of the statements contained
therein. Of course, no language is adequate to
convey a realistic sense of the fearful sufferings
and agony I have passed through in the la t eight
years, during which time I have expended at least
20,000 dollars for remedies, medical attendance,
and an enfon ed residence at different bathing re-
sorts. I cheerfully add this testimony, because I
feel perfectly certain that a knowledge of my cure
by St. Jacobs Oil will prove the means of reliev-
ing hundreds of sufferers from the pangs of the
dreadful disease alluded to. Confident of being
soon again able to resume my former active life,
I remain always
“ Your friend.
“J. D. WILLIAMSON.
“ 520 Taylor-street, San Francisco, Cal.”
A Steamship Officer’s
Statement.
Sydney Harbour, July 13,1883,
Pacific Mall Steamship City of New York.
Messrs. Publishers “Evening News.”
Gentlemen,—
For the benefit of the general public, I beg to
state that I have used St. Jacobs Oil for acute
Neuralgia in the face, and obtained astonishing re-
lief. I am satisfied that this remedy is a first-class
thing. One of the cooks on beard the S. S. City or
New York, was also cured of very severe Rheu-
matism by a few applications of this same article.
In my 20 years’ experience on the sea,I have found
nothing that I can so highly recommend for tn«
cure or pain as St. Jacobs Oil.
Very respectfully,
WM. H. HAWES.
Second Officer P.M.S.S. City of New York.
GENUINENESS GUARANTEED.
£100 REWARD.-A cash reward of one hundred
pounds will be p id by the Charles A. Vogeler
Company of Baltimore, Maryland, United States of
America, proprietors of St. Jacobs Oil, or by their
accredited local representatives, to any person
producing proof to the effect that the testimonials
published by them in regard to St. Jacobs Oil are
not strictly genuine. St. Jacobs Oil conquers pai n '
It cures Rhematism, Neuralgia, Headache, Tooth*
ache, Backache, and all similar ailments. Sold hr
Druggists and Chemists everywhere. Price i“
New South Wales, half-a-crown a bottle. Direc*
tions for use in eleven languages. Elliot*
Brothers, Sydney, Wholesale Depot for N.S.W.


THE ORANGE TRADE.
The history of Orangeism, unlike that of the Papacy, does not carry us back to the time when cameleopards and tigers bounded in the Flavian Amphi-
theatre. But it is even more interesting than that of its elder brother, because, while it was in times long gone by that the Papacy amused itself in
setting men by the ears, it can be said to the credit of Orangeism that, in this colony at least, it still holds its own in the way of striving for and attaining
its objects. It still succeeds in keeping open, on this side of the equator, old wounds which should have been healed when the shores of the United King-
dom sank below the horizon. Like a good many other things, it lives on mystery. We have got a peep behind this mysterious veil, and have much
pleasure in placing before our readers some illustrations taken by us of the dark ceremonies attending the initiation of a C.M.G.
And this farrago of childishness, blasphemy, and tomfoolery is Orangeism with the tinsel stripped off. It is this and kindred societies that have kept men
apart who would otherwise be friendly, and by so doing, dammed at their very sources that forbearance and charity of which we have all too little.
They have enabled ignorant and designing louts to swagger in high places, and perpetuated the poor songster’s complaint of “ Man’s inhumanity to man.”
The candidate is led in. Blind-folded, half nude,
slip-shod, bag on back, stick in hand, he walks
between two grinning attendants, who years
ago passed through the same mummery. A
man advances, scratches him with a rusty nail,
and bids him remember the scratch should he
ever feel inclined to divulge any of the secrets.
The C.M.G. prays for deliverence from the “ wilderness,” and (in
his own mind) from his tormentors, three of whom strew the
floor with pebbles, live coals, and tacks on their business end,
while two with long swords stand threateningly at his rear and
flanks. The pleasure in the candidate’s face, and the sternness
in the faces of his guards, have been well represented by our
artist.
The candidate’s eyes are unbandaged
to allow him to see the burning bush
that is not consumed. A ribbon is
then tied to his arm.
Again bandaged, he is bidden to cast away the rod
and catch it by the tail. Stooping to do so, crack-
ers are substituted, which he grasps and puts down
again without being told. Spectators’ coun-
tenances express their sense of the solemnity of
the occasion.
He enjoys himself. He is dragged three times round the room
over sharp pepples, thorns, and live coals. The seal of the
Lodge is heated and clapped on his breast.
He mounts the “ holy mountain
three steps constructed of candle-
boxes — and is then tossed in a
blanket.
Then the handkerchief is again raised, and the proximity of
three naked swords to his breast makes him feel quite com-
fortable.
Stooping down to remove his shoe,
he finds himself, on looking up,
confronted by a man with
another sword. It is “ The cap-
tain of the hosts of the lord.
The inevitable demand: “Your fee, please.” He uses
bad language, and remarks that he stood before them
without br .
Discovers him kneeling on a coffin; on the table three
lights of unequal length; in front three men with
swords, Bible and Lodge Warrant on his head.
Tableau!


Patti’s salary is £1000 a night. In the
opera of “ Lucia,” she is on the stage (during
3 acts) just 62 minutes. This gives her £16 a
minute. The average rate of respiration is
about 18 a minute, so that for each breath
she draws nearly £1. In “Lucia” there are-
1200 words and $800 notes. Patti is therefore
paid about 17s. a word, and nearly 5s. a note.
This is even better than securing N.8.W.
Government contracts, or knowing which
way a proposed railroad track is sure to run.
WOMAN ITEMS.
All the most popular Sydney barmaids
are making tracks for Calcutta Exhibition.
Mr. Courtney, secretary to the Treasury,
says next Reform Bill will propose extension of
franchise to women. When the bill’s passed,
“ wooing the electors” will be hard work.
Nothing in this world is so delicious as a
first love—except a second. Before marriage one
thinks only of what she grants; after, only of
what she refuses. A love renewed Is never worth
anything. It Is encouraging to reflect, when one
suffers deeply from being in love, that one will
suffer just as much from the next flame.
Some time ago one Bromley, in N.Z., had
a foot cut oft, and claimed £2000 compensation. A
little while afterwards his first wife (he, not having
heard of her for many years, had married a second)
turned up—but squared things by ceding all her
rights in Bromley to the doubtful wife for £50.
Thus, while he valued his feet at £2000 (and infer-
entlally his whole body at say £100,000), she gladly
accepted £50 for the whole lot. “Which only
shows,” &o.
The shoddy men are again on the warpath
in Sydney. They visit you during the absence of
your husband, with whoso movements they take
the trouble to thoroughly acquaint themselves,
and they offer for sale cloth at prices which, wore
the article genuine, would be ridiculously low.
They represent, they say, a big wholesale firm in
difficulties, and wish to realize; every pound now,
they remark, is to them worth live hereafter.
They bring to your door a sample-case. The best
Josephine kid-gloves they are prepared to supply
at one shilling per pair; other trifles they can sell
at pi-oportionate rates. On, no; they can’t let you
have the gloves now:—they will send them to you
from the warehouse I But you never have to wait
for the cloth. Though cloth is heavy, they always
carry big rolls of it about in their buggy. You buy
and pay cash for it, and too late you find that it is
the merest shoddy—that it would be dear even at
a gift. You are still anxiously awaiting the arrival
of your best Josephines, at a shilling a pair.
ON IT 1
Why Tangle, Tangle, little foot;
When from the pub. you stray;
Oh. why on road as chalk-line straight
Make such erratic way ?
Oh I little voice so soft and sweet,
How can you such noise kick up,
When Tanglefoot gets home at last,
Sam cash, plus awful hiccough ?
Oh I little hand so soft and white, 4
And seemingly so tender,
Whv rataplans beat on the skull
Of Tangle with the fender?
Oh I female charms so manifold,
Had we a chance we’d choose
To be without a bride at all
When out upon the booze.
This time the “novelty” comes from New
York, and is in the shape of a transparent parasol:
—“ The sticks and frames are ivory, and the cover-
ing is filmy lace, either white or tinted. Through
this new parasol the carrier’s hea" can be distinctly
seen, with an indistinctness jsst sufficient to in-
crease whatever beautie sit i eaily possesses. Why,
the thing is as old as the hills. We remember it
early in the “illties.” Besides, if it has some ad-
vantages, they are more than counterbalanced by
the drawbacks. Under it, no doubt, the handsome
become handsomer, but the ugly become uglier.
Thirty years ago to-day, the sun at noon being
south of us, wo walked down a street. In front
was a pair of ankles, the daintiest, best-rounded—
bah! the good St. Anthony’s heart would have
warmed to them. They led us the whole length of
f he boulevard without looking up. At last she did
look UP- She had a transparent parasol. Under it
was an amalgam of age and ug iness which passed
all understanding, ft passed us. Then the light
went out of our life, and we settled down to the
prosaic realities of existence. Memo; Fifty-year-
old ankles, which look decent, must be French.
This, from a recent Nooze:—“Yere Sin-
clave desires to meet a young gentleman with
comfortable home, must be gay and festive; she
loving disposition, aged 19; photos exchanged.
Address B. N. office.” We happen to know Miss
Vere, and Just for the information of any “gay
and festive ” cuss who may feel Inclined to “ bite, ’
we will endeavour to describe here. Vere is 25;
nearly as broad as she’s long, and she can spoil a
shirt, or wolf a cow-heel supper, with any other
slavey her weight in the Southern Archipelago.
She has a boiled-pork complexion, with hair to
match; her fists look like a couple of prize hams,
and when the sonorous sound of her daisy-mashers
is heard near the kitchen door, the cockroaches
shin up on the roof in fear and trembling. As he
point of her nose happens to stand straight in
front of her eyes, Nature has thoughtfully pro-
vided her with a double-barrelled squint to enable
her to look round the corners of her nasal organ;
her figure is as graceful and symmetrical as a
railway tank wrapped up In a bed-quilt, and when
she sleeps she snores like a healthy fog-horn.
Having an income of 8s. a week and the kitchen
“ porks,” no suitor is likely to suit her, except a
banker’s clerk or a night policeman. Now, there’s
a nice free little ad. far Bridget Muldoon—we mean
Vere Sinclare— let us hope she’ll send us a piece of
the gay and festive cake. We want something to
brain a neighbour’s dog with.
Several years ago Frank Miles, the artist,
remarked to Lord Ronald Gower that he with his
pencil and Oscar Wilde with his pen would make
of Mrs. Langtry the Jocunde and the Laura of
England Gladys, Countess of Lonsdale, has not
allowed bereavement (her husband died February,
1S82) to dim too severely her toilets at Ascot. She
wore on one day gray cashmere, and on another
mauve silk When Sara Bernhardt passed
through Hamburg recently on her way to Copen-
hagen and Stockholm, she had forty-six trunks
full of baggage, and waxed furious when the
customs officers insisted upon examining the con-
tents of every one to the very bottom As
Galatea it is said Mrs. Langtry isn’t a beauty.
Made up for the statue she shows red lips and hands,
blackened evebrows and lashes, salmon-coloured
arms and neck. When she is supposed to be in-
spired with life, she throws off her white wig and
displays her brown hair; but she is more like a
stitue in her acting than while she stands on her
pedestal. Unable to deliver Galitea’s speeches
with anything like dramatic effect, she intones
th an like a ritualistic parson Man named Done
(not Gustave), sued at Onehunga, N. Z., for £14 16s
Id, cost of his wife's and bridesmaids’ wedding Out-
fit. Defendant pleaded that the goods were pur-
chased before marriage, and any purchases made
subsequent to the marriage were without his
authority. Judgmentfor plaintiff ...The Hindoos
believe it was Adam who sinned and led Eve astray.
There is no doubt about the Hindoos being heathen
There is to be an entirely new style of beauty,
says the Court Journal. The girls with the ruddy
looks or the golden hair and the Saxon skin, that
have held their sway so long, will have to abdicate
their throne to their darkhaired sisters. So fashion
has decreed, and when fashion does decree a thing
the result is as unalterable as a general election.
To bo in the fashion to-day you must have dark
hair, dark blue eyes, not a particle of colour, and
lips as red as the cherry. These rather varied re-
quirements are to be met—with art—At Dayles-
ford, Vic., a working-man sued, for goods supplied
to his wife, pleaded that two years before a notice
had been inserted in a local paper in which ho
cautioned tradesmen not to supply any goods in
his name except on his own order. His Honor held
“that even without this notice a wife’s credit
could be stopped. Ho said if a husband whispered
into his wife’s ear in their bedroom that she was
not to pledge his credit, it would be a sufficient bar
against all the tradesmen in the town recovering
payment for goods supplied to her, notwithstand-
ing that they could not have possibly known her
husband’s decision.” At a recent marriage,
Newport (England,) the bride was a widow aged 82,
the bridegroom a bachelor aged 80, and the bride
was given away by her grandson The Mormon
elders have converted over 103 Maoris. By the
way, a Mormon is a husband who harnesses his
wives abreast, and a man who has been a widower
three times is one who drives them tandem — Mrs.
Langtry says that American women are rather too
plump, but they have very pretty faces, bright
and winning, beautiful hair, and very pretty hands
and feet. They do not dress as tastily as they might,
but perhaps that may be partly owing to the fact
that they are so charmingly independent Some
short while back, John G. Whittier wrote in the
album of a young female party who’d been chaffing
him on his celibate state, these lines, which we
confess wo think might have been long chalks
wittier:—
“ Ah, ladies, you love to levy a tax
On my poor little paper parcel of fame;
Yet strange it seems that among you all
Not one is willing to take my name—
To write and rewrite, till the angels pity her,
The weariful words, Thine truly, Whittier.”
....It’s always a task for the proposer of a hack-
neyed toast to find something now to say, but
occasionally a genius rises to the emergency. This
is how a late Scotch speaker managed “ The
Queen”; “Noo, gentlemen, will ye a fill your
glasses, for I’m aboot to bring forward f The
Queen.’ (Applause). Our Queen, gentlemen, is
really a wonuerfu’ woman, if I may say it; she’s
one o’ the guld auld sort, nae whigmaleorles or
falderals aboot her, but a douce daecent body.
She’s respectable beyond a doot. Gentlemen, ye 11
maybe no believe it, but I once saw the Queen
(sensation). I did. It was when I took my auld
brown coo tae the show. I mind her weel, slchna
colour, and hair, and horns, and sichna grand milk
—(Interruption, and ‘ Is it the cow or the Queen
ye’re proposin’ ?’) The Queen, gentlemen; I beg
vour pardon, but I fell to talking aboot the coo.
However, I saw the Queen, and there she was,
smairt and tidy like, and I said to mysel’ ‘ Gin my
auld wooman at hame slips away, ye ncedua re-
main lang single’ (Wild cheering). Noo, gentle-
men, the whusky’s guld, the nlcht s lang, the
weather's wat, and the saft roads will harm nae-
body that comes to grief. Sae, fill a muckle
drappy intil ye’r glasses, and drink tae the Queen.
(Cheers).”
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“H.W.C.”: We don’t believe that there
was ever a horse so thin that his tail had to be tied
in a knot to prevent him slipping through his
collar “Index”: Thanks. Arrived too late to
be of use last week. Now stale “Nostra”: Re-
ceived “ S.4.”; To hand “Our Legislators,
&c.”: Not suitable..Pine Log”: When you next
execute a drawing for us, please sketch it with the
thin end of your pine log. This one has evidently
been touched off witli the butt “B.H.H. ’
(Hobart): Not quite the style we want. .J.G. DeL.”:
Too solium “ Vldl”: if it’s your first attempt,
bettor make it your last also—till you learn spell-
ing. At first glance, we thought your manuscript
came from a member of Parliament “Jerry ’:
Yes, do; but notes too late this time "Little
Tommy”: Received, and thanks “Chandos”:
Thanks; space very limited “Eucalyptus”:
Too late this week “Unit”; Held over
“C.J.D.”: Very good “Eye-Opener”; Thanks.
“H.C.”; The joke was originally uttered by
Judas Iscariot....” J.B.P.”: Held over—“ J.R.,
sou.”: Those of your paragraphs which are original
are the least meritorious —W.H.R.”: This is not
a paper in which people write ten miles of pre-
liminaries. You must write tersely, or you won’t
get a show.... “ X.X.”; Will read and consider....
“Adelaide”: William Cummings, of Seotland ? the
present champion runner of Great Britain from
one to ten miles, has the fastest record in the
world for a mile (4m It! l-5s), and a mile and a-half
(tim “M.F.”: Mrs, Langtry is eight and
twenty years of age . Especially twenty... “Done-
gal ” Yes, but Ireland must be terribly hard up
for talent when she sends forward as one of her re-
presentatives a man of the calibre of Mr. William
Redmond “S.N.”: Too late—“Joseph”: No,
Joseph, it’s stale news. We don’t want stale news.
Please lay your ears back for the first-class lies
which the newspaper cori’espondents are about to
send from New Guinea. A kind of Australian
edition of Baron Munchausen will soon be on hand.
One or two of the correspondents will probably
sneak round the sea-coast, us the missionaries have
been doing for years and years,—and write about
the interior “Press”: Pressed out; perhaps
next week “Infidel”: Will look up his adver-
tisement “A.D.F.”: Thanks; next week
“ F.J.”: Your poetry has come, and we give you a
show with your best verse:—
“But when that man had breathed his last then
came the fuss;
Six thousand curious person’s to his funeral did
rush.
Did they think of him when he was on his sick
bed,
Or (now of) his dear wife and children that Jhas
to be ted ?”
This is good. Let us know when you’ve done the
ringbarking. We want a poet—just one poet—to
put to death....” J.C.” and others: Holdover.
We do not undertake to return rejected
communications. Writers should keep copies.
THE NEWSLETTER.
The Yass Courier says that the N.S.W.’
Government have Issued regulations, which win
be “ the cause of turning our hitherto respectable
railway stations into drinking hells.” Bung 1
William Smith, described as a “pedes-
trian,” has been arrested at Junee Junction on a
charge of having been converted to equestrianism.
The missing horse was found in his possession.
Major Te Wheoro has presented a petition
to the N.Z. Parliament, stating that certain Maoris
sold a block of land of 12.000 acres at 0s. an acre,
reaching £3700, but that the lawyers’ charges in
passing the land through the Land Court amounted
to £3600, leaving them only £100. The daughter of
this horse-leech wears a wig and gown.
A wealthy New Zealand storekeeper lately
found dishonoured cheques increasing on his
hands to such an extent that ho decided to “ clear
the line,” by placing them in the hands of an auc-
tioneer, who sold them by auction at prices rang-
ing from 2s to 15s in the £. Some of the buyers
were also the drawers of the documents, and thus
made a profit out of the affair.
At Guy’s Hospital, out of 51 cases of hephi-
ning performed in 7 years, only 13 recovered.
At St. Bartholomew’s the operation had not been
Ser formed for 6 years, and at University College
[ospital there were only 0 recoveries out of 17
cases. At Sydney Hospital, according to a paper
by Dr. Phillip Muskett in last A. M. Gazette out
of 13 operations performed by the honorary sur-
geons during the last 14 months, 7 have been
successful.
In Melbourne, last week, a Russian as-
tonished some reporters of the Herald, who
waited on him, by showing how the illuminating
power of gas could be indefinitely increased. He
had been In Siberia, and was a good many years
working—sometimes at his Invention and some-
times down a shaft kindly placed at his disposal by
the Government. It was, of course, a ‘ put up
job” to recuse him of Nihilism, and shunt him
east in the first place. Queer follows, those Rus-
sians I They’ve all been in Siberia and all for their
connection’with “gas.” The dying Goethe must
have had them in his eye when he said “more
light.” Wo quite believe those Herald reporters,
as they are enterprising men not easily “ got at.
We trust, however, they will not think it indelicate
if we hint that there appears to be one—not sus-
picious, you know—but just obscure point in the
affair. This gas, you see, is not content to burn
f jur times brighter than before the Muscovite
shoved a porous plug in it: it also possesses the
peculiarity of going out at daylight and re-lighting
at night—all by itself. When a person goes in for
gas at all, it is just as well to go in for it properly.
The festivities in connection with the
opening of Hudson Brothers and Co.’s (Limited)
new works at Granville, reached their climax on
Saturday lost, when the employes of the company,
with their sweethearts and wives, were entertained
at a banquet and dance. Two special trains con-
voyed the company from Redfern, shortly after
noon, and to make up these prodigious caravans
must have severely taxed the resources of the
department in rolling stock. It is doubtful, in-
deed, whether the supply of carriages would have
been equal to the demand had not the managers of
the company sagaciously decreed beforehand that
no should bring with him more than one
wife or more than one sweetheart. It Is a matter
of common knowledge that employes of Hudson
Brothers and Co. (Limited) enjoy an unparalled
degree of popularity with the fair sex, and thaG-
puttiug the question of a purality of wives aside—
there isn’t a single mechanic in the concern who is
not in a position to produce at least six love-sick
maidens languishing for his smiles, at any moment
when ho may be supposed to be in the full of flush
of manly beauty and ball-tickets. The wise pre-
caution of the hosts alone prevented the start
from presenting the aspect of a Mormon migra-
tion. No apprehension of accident tempered the
enjoyment of the excursionists. The vehicles
in which they travelled were chiefly the
work of their own hands, and the only
breakdowns were those danced on the floors
of the carriages by youthful operatives with
irrepressible and anticipatory legs. The plat-
form at Clyde was reached in due course,
and the guests streamed into the buildings and
dispersed among the workshops. There, talented
youths escorted admiring sweethearts (one each,
we repeat) among the machines, proudly disdain-
ful of the whirr of shafting and belting, smiling
superior at the pretty terrors of their awe-struck
fiancees, and explaining, with magnificent calm-
ness, how they controlled this or that grim monster.
Every lad who could, on the slenderest grounds,
lay claim to having a handle to pull when at work,
took his girl round and bossed that handle with a
magnificent air, and showed her exactly how that
handle should be pulled, and seriously deprecated
the over-caution of the firm, which, by withhold-
ing material, precluded him from turning out a
finished first-class railway carriage from a bar of
iron and a pot of varnish, in her presence, by
simply pulling that handle of his. No man is a
hero to his valet, according to a proverb. But
every apprentice is a foreman to his girl—if he
only knows how to put on side enough when a
chance like this presents itself. The signal for the
banquet came just about the period when all the
chaps had begun to explain to their girls the 1m-
Erovements they Intended to make as soon as they
ad worked their way up and become proprietors
of the concern; and the hospitable cares of the
table soon engrossed all manly energies.
Ambitious swains broke out Into lordly airs,
and the commanding style in which they
ordered the waiters to “ look sharp,” and to
“ bring along somuof that there chicking,” exalted
them afresh above ordinary sons of men. There
was a special table for boys, and there joy unal-
loyed prevailed. No bothering girls, to spoil
things. The youngsters entered into the banquet-
ting idea with extreme zest; instituted scrambles
for unknown meats, attacked the most mysterious
compounds with hardy resolution; and, especially,
recognising in Compagnoni’s best jellies a new—
and to all appearance delectable-variety ot cow
heel, consumed the quivering and affronted dainty
in large junks, eaten with potatoes and mustard.
The inevitable speech-making followed the courses.
Ministers were present in' quantity ; two and a
half yards of Treasurer and two of Works Minister.
After the Queen’s health had been improved by
the usual necromantic ceremony, the Hon. George
Dibbs orated. We forget what it was about; but,
anyhow, he remarked that ho, too, was a working’
man, and finished off amidst cheers by stating his
conviction that if operatives persisted in the paths
of virtue, they would not rail to attain happi-
ness. Mr. Hudson responded, and in the course
of his speech took occasion to assure the workmen
that he had been always a working man. and
that his excellence led him to believe that all that
was requisite to secure happiness was virtue. The
Hon. Mr. Wright, amidst other matters stated
that he was a working man, and that his hearers
should be virtuous it they wished to be happy.
Mr. John Woods also made an excellent oration
about things, and especially impressed upon his
audience that no one had a better claim than he to
be considered a working man, and that the secret
of happiness was to be virtuous. Just about here
; we began to yearn for John Davies, because we
remembered that he had declared on oath that he
“doesn’t do nothing”—in fact, is not a working
man—and because, although he is undoubtedly
virtuous, he is not happy. Mr. Henry Hudson
finished off by remarking that he was a work
[No you don’t.—Bd. B.], and was extremely cheered
on inviting the entranced audience to disperse if
they liked. They liked. After a stroll and tea,
the ball commenced, and waa chiefly remarkable
for the grace and elegance with which a fair young
creature in a blue jumper and whiskers caracoled
with a partner of the same sex.
POLITICAL POINTS.
The Calcutta natives are agitating for
Responsible Government.—Treason 1 To the hang-
man!!
Egypt must be held. So says the Times.
Singular, is it not, how, when foreigners hear that
the English are about to interfere fn the domestic
affairs of a nation—for a month or so, you know,
just to put matters straight and extend constitu-
tional government to them—they harbour the most
unworthy suspicions ?
The “Thunderer” of Printing House
square as quoted by the 8. M. Herald, says:—
“ Any attempt to invest the princes of the royal
family with a now character must end either in
breaking down the barriers which now surround
them, and exposing them to the rude criticismof
the market-place, or in seriously hampering the
Queen’s Government and injuring the public in-
terests. It is in the highest degree undesirable and
improper that members of the royal family should
be candidates for office.” We’re inclined to calcu-
late that the barriers our London contemporary
speaks of will be down pretty soon, whether the
princes be candidates for office or not. The next
generation of Radicals, when they place the use
against the cost of Princes, will assuredly come to
the conclusion that the game’s not worth the
candle.
The Nooze is hatching a Ministry to super-
sede the Stuart crowd when Parliament meets and
the “confidently predicted” fall of the present
Administration takes place. The chief conspirators
meet daily at Compagnoni’s, upstairs, at lunch-
time; and, should nothing occur to disturb their
harmony, something like the following may be
expected to result: —Colonial Secretary and Pre-
mier, Sydney Smith; Attorney-General, Tom Slat-
tery (who, it is said, will apply for special admission
, to the Bar); Colonial Treasurer, JohnlHarris; Post-
master-General and Leader of the Upper House,
“ Our Own Alfred;” Minister for Works, Honest
John Sutherland; Minister for Lands, Andy Lynch;
Minister for Justice, Charley Roberts, C.M.G.;
Minister for Mines, A. G. Taylor; Whipper-in (a
new office), Dan O’Connor. Programme: All Gov-
ernment “ads.” to be religiously inserted in the
Nooze only— Tramways to be at once abolished—
Baronetcies to be conferred on Chris, and Frank —
Henniker Heaton to be made Marquis of Woolloo-
mooloo.
In its last mail summary, the Brisbane
Courier published a most extraordinary para-
graph, commencing thus:—“ The struggle m Par-
liament is now over, and the struggle throughout
the country is about to commence. That the gen-
tler sex will exercise some influence upon it there
is little doubt, and that the weight of that in-
fluence will bo exercised on behalf of the present
Government is undeniable. The campaign will not
be fought entirely at the hustings or at the polling
booths, but in part also at the tea-table and in the
ballroom; and we hear of several projected events
in which the blandishments of the graceful and
hospitable hostesses are likely to be used to win
favour for the leaders of the rival parties. . . .
The banks are becoming critical over accounts. The
fires in the sweating-rooms are gradually being
stirred up, and a great political change might pro-
duce an unpleasant tightness of the chest in commer-
cial circles. It would thus appear that “ hospitable
hostesses” and “the sweating-rooms of banks
are to play important parts in the coming elections.
• • •
There is trouble because some N. Z. sur-
veyors have committed “a breach of native
etiquette.” It is notknown whether the surveyors
lit a fire on the place where the ancestors of some
blue-blooded rangatira had gouged out an enemy’s
eyes, lighted a fire, and feasted on his remains, or
whether they presumed to desecrate the land
with the detested theodolite and chain, without
first propitiating the paramount chief with liberal
offerings of rum and tobacco — J. J. Shillinglaw
asserts that Captain Bligh took possession of New
Guinea on behalf of the British Crown prior to the
mutiny of the Bounty. J. J. S.’s assertion is, we
think, incorrect.... Flu Times suggests annexation
of Fiji to Australia.... Fiji Argus says that French
annexation of Now Hebrides would entail upon
Fijian settlers the necessity of falling back upon
either Coolies or Mongolians—The S.M. Herald
is oppressed with the idea lest British deputies in
New Guinea should interfere with the Queensland
labour traffic. And yet, unless the proposed British
deputies in Papua do essay to control that traffic,
the Protection of New Guinea will be but a sorry
farce Derby, apropos of the statement of Aus-
tralian Agents-Goneral to effect that 100,000 French
criminals are about to be emptied into the Pacific,
all men are liars.
* * *
There was a short petition recently placed
on the table of the Commons against opening the
“ pubs.” on Sunday. It had over half a million of
signatures, and was humped in by four Irish
policemen De Lesseps about to commence a
second Suez canal “ on his own hook.” English
Opposition protests—Bradlaugh, re Gladstone’s
speech on the Affirmation Bill: “ I am not ashamed
to acknowledge it brought tears to my eyes.”....
Details about the enttmsiastic crowd at the Czar’s
coronation are leaking out. There were 40,000
enthusiastic policemen sprinkled about—The
expenses of the coronation of the present Em-
peror’s father were met by the issue of a guaran -
toed railroad loan, the railway, of course, never
being made The inauguration of a President of
the United States costs about five pounds.
The Jerilderie races and show took place
ast week. Observations in next issue.
It is an all-round admission in Melbourne
that there's no house in the sister colony to com-
pete with Anthony Hordern and Sons, of the Hay-
market, in respect of cheapness or extent of trade.
Mr. J. J. Clarke, father of the late Mr.
Walter Clarke, Hungerford’s companion, who was
killed by blacks in the Far North, is retiring from
the service of the Department of Public In-
struction, after thirty-two years' uninterrupted
work. Mr. Clarke was the pioneer school teacher
in the Illawarra district, where for twelve years he
trained the young ideas of the children of the
principal settlers. Then he was removed to New-
town, where it befel that he was again the pioneer
Public School teacher. After fourteen years at
Newtown, he was transplanted te Botany, w*ere
an attendance of fifty soon swelled to one humlreu
and fifty. The successive blows which Fate iws
dealt the old schoolmaster have indisposed him for
further exertion. The truly lamentable way in
which his son’s life was sacrificed, struck wit*
deadly force the heart of the aged mother, and loft
Mr. Clarke to pass through the rest of exist office
doubly bereaved.
The following unique letter was sent to
the Department of Instruction of N. 8. Wales by
an editor down South:—“Sir, I can ride a colt
and break him into harness, drive single, tandem,
unicorn, or four-in-hand, milk a cow, brand a calf,
edit a newspaper, teach a public school, wash a
buggy, read Virgil and Telemaque, I have a good
memory, I can work out a quadratic equation, and
trot over the Pons Asinorum, give a lecture, make
an election speech; I can play the fiddle and sing a
comic song to ray own piano accompaniment. I
can play a fair game of billiards, make a table,
build a farm house, mow a grass paddock, pull a
horse's tail, and am a Good Templar. I have never
inspected a school, and that is just what I would
like to try my hand at for the next three years.
As a clergyman’s son, I have been taught not to
eat peas with the knife, and Savage makes my
coats. Age 41, married. I hear Mr. has re-
signed. I engage to do his work in this district for
£100 per annum less than was allowed to him. If
appointed, I shall be ever grateful, and I guarantee
neither to disgrace the Department nor the Min-
ister’s patronage. Being a modest man, I shall add
no more in self-description, except this, that if I
were not certain that I possessed both the energy
and the ability necessary for the appointment I do
myself the honour to ask for, I would not seek it.”


BRIEF MENTION.
Pat Downes sent up for a fortnight for
Raving been unlaAvfully on C.M.G. Davies’ pre-
mises. After that farthing ?
Temora has a policeman who weighs 30st.
nib He was once seen pursuing a criminal and
was then nicknamed “ The Law’s Delay.”
Mules are being imported into Queensland.
c mn e of the local papers say they are for “stud
mirposes.” Perhaps it is as Avell Darwin is dead or
this would “ cook ” him.
An Alexandra (N.S.W.) lad of 13 did not
vnow the nature of God or of an oath. Stealing
armies was his line. We know plenty of holy
neople who are thoroughly at home in the Sub-
Lets this poor boy Avas ignorant of, and who have
adA r anced a good deal beyond robbing orchards.
A monumental ma-
son adA'ertises in the
AUSTRALASIAN MEDICAL
Gazette. This is an
ominous fact. But not
so ominous as the
fact that an eminent
medico of Lyons-terrace
has erected on his door a
white marble slab Avith
his name inscribed there-
on in black letters.
A Melbourne detec-
tive was pressing atten-
tions on a gentlemen as
far as the lock-up. In his
evidence on the case, the
“trap” said withouttum-
ing a nair“The prisoner
conversed freely with me,
and said that if I would
refrain from accusing
him, he would refund me
my money, and pay all
expenses I had been put
to. I told him it was not a
question of money with
me, but a matter of prin-
ciple.” Since reading this
we have had a succession
of fits that threaten to
seriously interfere with
our usefulness to the
public.
Quarryman Thomas,
whilst blasting stone on
the Mount Barker (S.A.)
road, last Aveek, acci-
dentally dynamited him-
self into little bits, for the
express purpose of afford-
ing the Daily Morning
Ecm the opportunity of
piling up the agony Avith
r ‘ horrible,” ‘ r ghastly,”
“ tremendous,” smash-
ed,” “frightfully tom,”
*• horribly dismembered,”
ad nauseam. Which re-
minds us that the Rum
never comes out now
without at least six
ghastly head-lines, each
of them placed as nearly
as possible at the top of
a column. “ Horrible
suicide.” “diabolical ass-
assination,” and so on.
The Rum’s motto just
now is “ blood, hair,
crunched bones, and or-
thodoxy.”
Thus the ingenious
“Stella,” writing from
Paris (vl& Woolloomoo-
loo) to the Right Rever-
end conductors of the
Herald “ It is ru-
moured, from private
sources, that a double
explosion occurred in the
Empress’ dressing room,
just before the Imperial
pair left Petersburg. One
of these awkward affairs
(what ‘ awkward affairs ?’
or does Stella refer to
the ‘ Imperial pair ? ’)
blew up her dressing
table, the other sent her
washing stand flying in
fragments all over the
room. No mention of the
occurrence, naturally,
has appeared in any of
the Russian journals.”
No, natural-lie not. But
only imagine what the
right reA'erends would
have said had Redmond
or Stockwhip Kelly sug-
gested anything of the
A certain very well
known Sydney man,
when first he arrived,
wrote home to his brother
that “he was doing ex-
ceedingly well in timber.”
Whereupon the brother
came out, too, and found
that his relative certainly
was in timber—he was
cutting firewood. But we
have now heard some-
thing even better. A
gay dog of this city not
long ago wrote to his
young sister in England,
I’m sorry to tell you, my
dear, that I’m a broker/’
And Avhen the simple
little girl, unversed in
slang, answered her
brother’s letter, she art-
lessly said, “Pm not sorry,
dear , to hear that
you are a broker. On the
other hand, I am very
glad. You Avlll yet be
glad, too. I consider the
business of a broker a
very nice one indeed.
Look at Cissy , who
has just been married to
Mr. , of the Stoek Ex-
change. He is a broker,
and they have a lovely
house, which mamma
says must cost quite two
thousand a year to keep
up.”
The leading Melbourne paper advertises
for a trimmer. Just so. It is a hard world to live
in without doing a little trimming off and on. It
is needless to say that In this case none but compe-
tent trimmers need apply.
A manager on a “hungry” station not
fifty miles from Coonamble, stuck up notices of
‘No thoroughfare” at all the boundary gates. A
wag has made an addition thusly:—Pointing west,
‘‘to heaven;” pointing east “to hell.” The sta-
tion lies east.
We notice that half the Union Jack at
Government House, Sydney, has disappeared, and
that His Excellency is now flying only the other
naif. Half a flag for half a Governor. We do not
undertake to vouch for the accuracy of the state-
ment that a piece of the flag was used as a shroud
at theinterment of a grand Brahma rooster which
died the other day of cerebro-spinal meninidgitis.
There is a bullock at Tarrabandra. He
appears to have struck a bigger patch than any
other animal of his genus. When he gets his bingey
full of bran and hay, he steers for the Tarrabandra
Public School and keeps the kids from “ wagging
if’hlsAvay. Half the children in the district are
perched in trees along the road as he goes by. But,
with the insolence of success, he turned up his
nose at such small fry last Aveek, and called upon
the teacher. He removed some clothes the master
had on at the time and hung thorn on tho black-
board, Avhilo the teacher Avas profaning tho man
Avho didn’t make the chimney wider. iJBut, like
la mere guillotine, he grew dainty In his progress,
and called for the rind of a clergyman. The Re\ r .
Mr. Williams didn’t knoAV this Avhen he started
from home that morning, but he heard it on the
Avay. He made some friendly overtures to the
bullock, Avho was in a ditch Avaiting for him, but
tho unregenerate brute stood him on his head
before ho pot to “ thirdly and lastly.” The police
have at lost interfered, and the Government are
about to send a detachment of the Permanent
Artillery with a field piece to bring the bovine
C.M.G. to reason.
Not lopg ago, up North, one Mr. Ah Sen
Avas served Avith a notice t® sequestrate his stock
for the benefit of his confiding white creditors.
But Ah See couldn’t see it at all, as his real name
Avas Sam Toy Song. So a fresh writ was served on
Sara Toy Song, and it then transpired he Avas only
keeping shop for an innocent firm called Wah
Yung Sun Tiy Kee. The issuing of another writ
revealed the fact that Wah Yung Sun Tiy Kee
was only the maiden name, as it were, of Messrs.
Ty Foong Ping Chow, and so the authorities baited
another hook Avith a Avrit, and this time fished up
the fact that the company consisted of one slant-
eyed SAvindler only, and his name was Cow Fat.
This worthy being cornered, pointed out that Ah
See bought all goods in the name of Ky Koong,
whose shingle happened to be OA r er the door at the
time, and he, Cow Fat, of course, knew nothing at
all about the business. Thirty-seven other copper-
headed fan-tan fakers were subsequently caught,
and the creditors, after a weary waste of time and
tin, had their perseverence rewarded by actually
finding out the real responsible man, a gent, by the
name of Pan To. But Pan To was dead then, and
by this time the look of the stock in the shop
clearly proved he had taken all his earthly trea-
sures with him.
Nathan, the furniture salesman in Bourke-
street, Melbourne, has a rather left-handed notice
in his splendidly laid out window. The display of
articles, necessary and ornamental, is most tempt-
ing, but the notice reads thus“ Anybody can
Avalk through this shop without being induced to
buy.” Possibly, Nathan means “Avithout being
asked.”
People who do not know how easy it is to
cause a quarrel between the men of different regi-
ments or different ships7even of the same-army or
naA r y, are disposed to take a serious a-Iow of the
recent erneule between English and French
marines at Port Said. But there’s really nothing
in It. Even during the Crimean Avar, Avhen the
entente cordicde was in everyone’s mouth, and the
Western nations Avere laA'ishing their best blood in
supporting the “unspeakable” Turk, the land
or sea forces of the allies seldom pame together
without a “shindy." Here Is an illustration of
this tendency, even on the part of regiments avear-
ing the same uniform. It Avas in Dublin, ever so
long ago. Two regiments were stationed at Rich-
mond Barracks. Both had served in India,
years befoi-e, and, under various commanders,
had helped to tighten England’s -rasp on that
throat. Both bad “India*’ on thoir
colours and on the brass buttons of their tunics,
but, oddly enough, the “ Bengal tiger,” Avhich ap-
peared on the buttons of one corps Avith his tail
cocked, had it between his legs on those of the
other. Hero were all the elements for a kick-up
ready to hand, and in justice to the men it is
only fair to say that they were not long in dis-
covering Avhat a spendid opportunity the War
Office had throivn in their Avay for a bit of what
some of them called “ di v irshun.” “ Look at your
—*- tiger with his tail atween his hoofs,” delicately
remarked one tipsy grenadier to another, and half
an hour afterwards t wo thousand men were chip-
ping off pieces of each othors’skulls with waist-belts
and road metal. To this day those two regiments
neA'er meet without “ wigs on tho green,” as soon
as the men have put away their arms and obtained
a little beer at the canteen.
When Greek meets Greek in the shape of a
Chinaman and a Maori, then comes, See. See., and
the civilization of three thousand years pales
before tho superior light of a single generation,
Recently, in Now Zealand, a Chinaman caught a
splendid trout weighing ten pounds, and was carry-
ing it home, when he met a Maori and asked him if
he knew what kind of fish it was, and if it Avasgood
to cat. “ Eat him!” cried tho cunning native, lift-
ing up his hands and assuming an expression of
devout horror. “Bat him! no, no, John, Tapu!
Tapu! This holy fish. You eat him, and John
Bryce put you in chokee all same Te Whitl!” This
Information staggered the heathen Chinee, and he
Avas only too glad to avail himself of the Maori’s
advice to hide the trout in the scrub, for fear the
constabulary should see him Avith it in his posses-
sion. And that night the Maori enjoyed a magni-
ficent fish supper, Avhile the poor Celestial ate an
onion and Avent to bed, thankful that he had
escaped tho clutches of the Noav Zealand mounted
police.
Writes “ Parra-
matta” of a Sydney board-
ing-house:—“One morn-
ing I noticed that each of
the children avus bathed
in a tub of warm Avater,
after Avhich the soiled
clothes of the infant were
washed in the same tub
and water, after which
tho breakfast things were
gathered up, and under-
Avent the process of
cleansing in the water
which had served for the
children and clothes.”
Ugh!
Harns-street, Ho-
tham (Melbourne), is
crowded with furniture
vans. Lodge: s are leav-
ing and landlords peti-
tioning Parliament. The
late Mayor Fogarty was
about to alter the name
of the thoroughfare to
“ Fogarty Lane.” Hence
the tears and Amns. One
man alone is determined
to stop. He doesn’t seem
to care the most infini-
tesimal portion of a mi-
croscopical d Avhat tho
name Is. He is a China-
man.
The reason why
Andy Lynch, M.L.A., did
not attend the short ses-
sion of Parliament Avas
tjiis. A few days before
Parliament Avas convoked
ho was piloting a cart-
load of posts and rails
down an incline, near
Sydenham, when sud-
denly the horse took
fright, knocked him
down, and the near Avheel
passed over his head.
When he got up, the first
thing ho said was “Thaaro
now, it was oanly lasht
waak that I got a new
tolre on that Avhale, and
be gorra the-e goes an-
other thirty bob out of
me pocket.” So Andy
had to stay at home and
mend the wheel, Instead
of visiting Macquarle-
Streot.
Yes 1 In the lan-
guage of the stable it was
a clear case of “got at,"
and this is how it hap-
pened, He was a plod-
ding bucolic-looking far-
rpor in a border tOAvn. He
wanted 10s. worth of
postage stamps, and
tendered copper for
them. Tho Postmaster
(“ Man, proud ml n,
dressed,” etc.) refused it
us not being a legal
tender. Then tho yokel
got mad and left, but
not for long. Ho bor-
rowed a Avheel barrow
and all the copper coin-
age he could get—filled it
up pretty well, in fact.
Then he called on the
official, and for five
mortal hours kept him at
the Avindow handing out
twopenny stamps one by
one. It Avas the felloAv's
horrible politeness that
nearly killed the Post-
master. Throe weeks
have come and gone, yet
is that officer blear-eyed
and foul-mouthed from
the wild “ bust ” he
launched on Avhen the
joskin’s last copper was
passed in.
M. Murphy took a
header into the South
Pacific from the deck of
the Coonanbara on her
Avay to Newcastle. Among
his effects Avas found tho
following:—“Dear Louise,
1 cannot live without
you, so I will die for you.
Your dear name snail bo
the last upon my lips.
Yours in death, M.
Murphy.” So that there
may be a thread of ro-
mance running through
the life of even a Murphy.
The best thing to do
when you cannot live
without a woman is to
live with her. If the men
who do these things only
know Iioav the women for
whom they murder them-
selves appraise the action,
a severe stop Avould be
put to the “dying for
you ” business. And yet
qne must not be too hard
ijpon IRo imbeciles, Wp
pparly killed purgelveg
over a Avoman once. Wp
Have forgqtten thq pre-
pise circumstances, bqt
Remember a policeman, q
mastiff, and a mantrap
wpre spmehow mjxed up
in it.
Murderer ou scaffold: “ Here js the parsem,
here is the halter, but Ay here is the bride ?"
“ Here,” said Jack Ketch, fia he drety the bolt,
The Revised Old Testament will be pub-
lished early next year. Qrdtjrs solicited from
trunkmakers. The Revised New Testament was a
perfect “ frost ” as a speculation.
Mr. John Hogan, Box 337, G.P.O., Sydney,
has brought under our notice, a “ Common Sense
Binder,” the handiest sort of portfolio for filing
papers like The Bulletin Avhich Ave have seen.
“ Half the modern French anecdotes ”
(says the London World) “are simply washed
versions of tho stories told by Rabelais, Boccaccio,
or loss recondite authors. What are noAv attri-
buted to M. de Bismarck or M. de Gortschakoff,
used 50 years ago to be fathered by Rougemont or
Talleyrand or Metternich.” The World is quite
right. And with modern English anecdotes ’tis
about the same; for Instance, all the dirty witti-
cisms retailed by a certain former N.S.W. Attorney-
General to his Premier were unwashed versions of
foul Jokes told by Chaucer or Adam of Cobsam.
STUART'S PERFECT CURES.


W. H. PALING,
352 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
77?v ''"
Pianofortes,
Pianofortes,
Pianofortes.
By the following renowned English, French, and
German Makers: —
Erard
Pleyel
Collard & Collard
Broadwood & Sons
Klrkman
Soufleto
Frost & Co.
Llpp & Sohn
Aucher
Bonlsch
Hundt & Sohn
Bluthner
Steinway
Schiedmayer
Challen & Son
Ecke
Elcke
Paling & Co.
A. Bord
Berden & Co,
Herz
Schwechten
Schwander
Forster
And numerous other Manufacturers.
ORGANS by Bell & Co., Palace Organ Company;
Waters & Co., Pelodbert, and others.
Bell & Co’s. Celebrated Organs, besides other
Awards, gained First and Special Prize over all
others at the recent Sydney Exhibition.
HARMONIUMS by Alexander & Co., etc.
A Splendid Stock of MUSIC always on hand.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
Owing to W. H. P.’s, removal to those Immense
promises, next door, lately occupied by Prince,
Ogg and Co., the present Magnificent Stock will be
sold at REDUCED PRICES at
W
H. PALING’S,
352 GBGRGE STREET.
hawves tTn?.
CHAMPION
ENGINES
AND
THUESmi
SAW
Fieun
MILLS
mmm
pa
lWC*
W MS
'’LRMING’S Carriage and Machinery Repository
22 and 23 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
PAIN
VTOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
jRALQIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE,
RAINS, BRUISES, HURNS. SCALDS, &*., and
,jcen internally cures DIARRHCE V, DYSENTERY,
RAMPS, COLIC, and all other Internal aches
n l pains.
v»rlce, 2/- Sold Everywhere.
G. E. MOULTON, sole prophctor.
vl ELBOUENE -A. NT T) SYDNEY.
PAINT
Vj
MAR
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT—This favourite brand
of Stout selected with great care from the
best of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
eaunot be excelled. To be procured everywhere.
CATTKLL A G0 n Sole Agents.
THE MEW SUUTH WALKS PRORKltT 1
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £100,000.
Allow Interest as follows: —SEVEN PER CENT
on fixed deposits for 13 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods: FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £50 in the Savings Hank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, I Park-st.
I. V, WAREHAM, Manager.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 23rd July, 1883.
TENDERS FOR TAR-PAVING AND REPAIRS.
TENDERS are invited for TAR-PAVING and
REPAIRS to the PETERSHAM PUBLIC
SCHOOL.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained, at the olliee of the Department
of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Tar-paving and
Repairs, Petersham Public School,” must be lodged
with the Acting Under Secretary, Department of
Public Instruction, on or before 10 o’clock a.m. on
Wednesday, the 15th August, 1883.
The Minister dues not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
G. H. REID.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
24th July, 1883.
STEAM-TUG FOR THE TWEED RIVER.
TENDERS will be received at this Office up to
noon of Thursday, the 9th of August, from
persons desirous of supplying and maintaining an
efficient Steam-tug for use at the Tweed River, on
the basis of an annual subsidy from the Govern-
ment, and with the right reserved to the tenderer
to charge shipping for the use of the Tug at rates
not exceeding 8d. per registered ton, both in and
out, with a minimum of £3.
The conditions of contract may be seen at the
Office of the Marine Board.
The vessel must be of net less than 20 horse-
power, with a draught not exceeding 5 feet 6
inches, and thoroughly fitted, in the opinion of the
Marine Board, for th service required, which
must be commenced immediately upon accept-
ance of tender.
Tenderers must state the amount of subsidy
(over and above the towage rates) required for the
service specified, and must submit the names of
the persons thei propose as sureties.
The Contractor, within fourteen days from noti-
fication of acceptance of tender, will be required
to enter into a bond with two sureties for the due
performance of the service ; and in the event of
his failure to complete the Bond in the time
named, the contract mav be either re-advertised
or another tender accepted.
The Government will not necessarily accept the
lowest or any tender.
Tenders to be addressed to the Under-Secretary
for Finance and Trade, and endorsed “ Tender for
Tug Service.”
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South wales,
24th July, 1883.
STEAM-TUG FOR THE BRUNSWICK RIVER.
TENDERS will be received at this Office up to
noon of Thursday, the 9th of August, from
persons desirous of supplying and maintaining an
efficient Steam-tug for use at the Brunswick River,
on the basis of an annual subsidy fr. un the Govern-
ment, and with the right reserved to the tenderer
to charge shipping for the use of the Tug at rates
not exceeding 8d. per registered ton, both in and
out, with a minimum of £3 ; and in the event of
cargo being taken to and from vessels, at a rate of
not more than 2s. 6d. per ton.
The conditions of contract may be seen at the
Office of the Marine Board.
The vessel must be of not less than 20 horse-
power, with a draught of not more than 4 feet,
and thoroughly fitted, in the opinion of the Marine
Board, for the service required, which must be
commenced Immediately upon acceptance of
tender. . . , . . .
Tenderers must state the amount of subsidy
(over and above the towage and cargo rates) re-
quired for the service specified, and must submit
the names of the persons they propose as sureties.
The Conrtactor, within fourteen days from noti-
fication of acceptance of tender, will ho required
to enter into a bond with two sureties for the due
performance of the service ; and in the event of
his failure to complete the Bond in the lime named,
the contract may either be re-advertised or another
Tender accepted. _
The Government will not necessarily accept the
low, st or anj tender.
Tenders to tie addressed to the Under-Secretary
for FI> ance and Trade, and endorsed " Tender
for Tug Service.”
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury. New South Wales,
24th J uly, 1883.
TRAM-TUG FOR THE CAPE HAWKE RIVER.
CENDERS will be received at this Office up to
noon of Thursday, the 9th of August, from
ersons desirous of supplying and maintaining an
indent Steam-tug for use at the Cape Hawke
iver, on the basis of an annual subsidy from the
overnment, and with the right reserved to the
mderer to charge shipping for the use of the Tug
t rates not exceeding 8d. per registered ton, both
i and out, with a minimum of £3.
The conditions of contract may be seen at the
dice of the Marine Board.
The vessel must be of not less than 20 horse-
ower, with a light draught (draught to be stated
i the Tender), and thoroughly fitted, in the
pinion of the Marine board, for the service re-
uired, which must be commenced immediately
pon acceptance of tender.
Tenderers must state the amount of subsidy
>ver and above the towage rates) required lor
le service specified, and must submit the names
f the persons they propose as sureties.
The Contractor, within fourteen days from noti-
cation of acceptance of tender, will be required
> enter into a bond with two sureties for the due
orformance of the service; and in the event of
is failure to complete the Bond in the time
amed, the contract may either be re-advertised
r another Tender accepted.
The Government will not necessarily accept the
iwest or any Tender.
Tenders to bo addressed to the Under-Secretary
>r Finance and Trade, and endorsed “ Tender tor
ug Service. GEORGE R. DIBBS,
The Treasury, New South Wales,
24th July, 1883.
STEAM-TUG FOR WOLLONGONG.
TENDERS will be received at this Office up to
noon of Thursday, the 9th of August, from
persons desirous of supplying and maintaining an
efficient Steam-tug for use at Wollongong, on the
basis of an aunual subsidy from the Government,
and with the right reserved to the tenderer to
charge shipping for the use of the Tug at rates not
exceeding 4d. per registered ton, both in and out,
with a minimum of £110s.
The conditions of contract may be seen at the
Office of the Marine Board.
The vessel must be of not less than 20 horse-
power, and thoroughly fitted, in the opinion of the
Marine Board, for the service required, which
must be commenced immediately upon acceptance
of tender.
Tenderers must state the amount of subsidy
(over and above the towage rates) required for the
service specified, and must submit the names of
toe persons they propose as sureties.
The Contractor, within fourteen days from noti-
fication of acceptance of tender, will be required
to enter into a bond with two sureties for the due
performance of the service; and in the event of
his failure to complete the Bond in the time named,
the contract may either be re-advertised or another
Tender accepted.
The Government will not necessarily' accept the
lowest or any Tender.
Tenders to be addressed to the Under-Secretary
for Finance and Trade, and endorsed “ Tender for
Tug Service.”
GEORGE R. DIBBS,
315 George Street.
A few of our undertaking’s MOST SUCCESS
FULLY carried out, among which will be founc
the LARGEST, MOST DIFFICULT, and MOST
RESPONSIBLE events that have taken place since
the opening of this establishment.
His Worship the MAYOR’S PICNIC, for 450, at
Clontarf.
Mis Worship the MAYOR’S BALL, for 1600, Exhi-
bition Building, at which his Worship, John
Harris, entertained their R.H.’s PRINCES AL-
BERT and GEORGE, EARL CLAN WILLIAM,
and the Officers of the Detached Squadron.
MASONIC BALL. English Constitution, for 1252,
Exhibition Building.
MASONIC BALL, N.8.W. Constitution, at Town
Hall, Sydney.
Visit of their U.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Llthgow Vailoy Mines and Zigzag.
Dinner A la Rwm, for 60. in Government Palace
Dining Car while travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000 SCHOOL CH1L-
DREN— re Queen’s Statue Demonstration—undei
VERY SHORT NOTICE, only receiving the
order at 2.30 p.m., to he ready on the spot at U-3H
p.m. the following day.
Visit of THEIR R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Captain Cook’s Landing, south side
of Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon and rem sh-
ment for 100. under VERY SHORT NOTICE, re-
oeivlng order at 0.30 p.m., to be ready on the snot
at 1 p.m. following day.
The LADY MAYORESS’ RECEPTIONS, Town
Hall.
The UNION CLUB BACHELOR’S BALL, at E» '4-
bltion Building, for 600.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE WINDEYBH.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE TNNE8.
Dinner A la Rutae at St, J^ 1
bors of the CBURCH OF ENGLAND SYNOD
Dinner A la Russe to the INTERCOLONIAL RIMi
TEAMS, Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshment liars at HAWK h*
BURY RACES, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at RAND
WICK RACES, in Grand Stand.
The CONSULAR DINNER, in our new Bam.uM
Room.
ARMIDALE RAILWAY Demonstrations. Bmiv-
quet for 400; MAYOR’S BALL, 6W, same evening
and CITIZEN’S BALL. 600, the following evei-
ALBURY-WODONGA RAILWAY DEMONSTRA-
TION —Grand Government Banquet for 1016
at Albury. Grand Ball, 800, following night.
Children’s feast, 1184, the following afternoon
and evening Also, Breakfasts, Dinners. Teas,
and Suppens. in Government Dining Car, to
IDs Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus, the
Ministry, and Ms.P., while travelling to and
from Banquet, &c., &c.
Numerous Banquets and Entertainments by HD
WORSHIP THE MAYOR at Town Hall, &c.
Numerous Dinners d la Rusfte in the N.S.Y
GOVERNMENT PALACE DINING CAR whii.
travelling by rail, on account of the GOVERN
MENT.
Together with a numerous lot of Private Dinners
Feasts, Weddings. Garden Parties, Balls. Tea
Meetings Land Sales, Suppers, Picnics, Fishlnp
Excursions, &c.
W
TLCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10
HBBBLEWUITK & C O.
416 GEORGE STREET.
CADET EXAMINATION, SURVEY OFFICE
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES.
CHURNS,
Corn shelters
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
Ac. Ac. &c.
TT is hereby notified that an Examination of
I Candidates for Employment as Cadets in the
Department of the Surveyor-General will be held
early in November next. The exact date, when
fixed, will be duly notified. Candidates must have
attained the age of 16 years, or they will not be
eligible for examination.
Intending competitors can obtain further in-
formation upon applying by letter to the Surveyor-
General, or personally to the Secretary and
Cashier. (8|gned) P . p. ADAMS,
Surveyor-General.
Surveyor-General’s Office,
Sydney, 22nd June, 1883.
Department of Public Works and Mines.
Brisbane, 12th July, 1883.
TO ARCHITECTS.
NEW PUBLIC OFFICES, BRISBANE.
COMPETITIVE designs are Invited from Archi-
tects for the new Public Offices proposed to
be erected in Brisbane: to be sent in on or before
30th November next, addressed to the Undersecre-
tary for Public Works. Brisbane. First prize, £300;
second, £200; third, £100.
Conditions, with plan and levels of ground, can
be obtained on application at this Office, or at the
Public Works Offices, Sydney. Melbourne, and
Adelaide.
EDWARD DEIGHTON,
Under Secretary.
“Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 17th July, 1883.
TENDERS FOR TEMPORARY BUILDING.
CENDERS are Invited for the ERECTION of a
temporary Wooden Building for Public
jhool purposes, at St. Peters.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and forms
; tender obtained, at the office of the Department
f Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Temporary
uilding, St. Fetors Public School,” must be
idged with the Under Secretary, Department of
a bile Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock a.m. on
ONDAY, 6th August 1883.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
meat or any tender. 6 , H . REID.
K
OBERT BUTCHER & C
(Late William Long),
0T WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
O.
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
OQunttr Order! receive prompt attention
W. Howard Smith and Sons,
STRUTH’S WHARF and NEW WHARF
(Foot of King Street).
Offices : 42 KING STREET.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS A SATURDAYS.
Steamers Brisbane to Port Mackay and Townsville
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
♦ To arrive.
W. HOWARD SMITH and SONS,
48 King Street, Sydney.
D MITH AND M A N N E L L,
SHIRT TAILORS. HOSIERS, & MERCERS,
298 George Street, Sydney.
Established 1844.
Our CELEBRATED WHITE SHIRTS, ready made
30s., 40s., SOs., 60s. the half-dozen.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1860.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT, 1878
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £127,500
Directors:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George 8. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidiey King, M.L.O.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:
Jas. Scroggle, Esq. | Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: I Secretary:
F. A. A. Wilson. | Hector Alien.
Branches :
Haymarket. Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambone,
Gosford, Nyngan, and Bourke.
London Bankeks:
The National Provincial Bank of England
London Office: 158 Leadenhall-street
Director: Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent: G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted dally.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wool
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
Bad Legs, Constitutional
Diseases, &c.
To Mr. Cooper, 340 Crown-street.
For five years I suffered Intensely with bad logs;
I have been treated by our best doctors, and I have
tried nearly every remedy procurable, but I gene-
rally grew worse Instead of better. My age Is 52,
and 1 fully expected to suffer for the rest of my
life, until 1 heard of some of your cures, and
before I had been a week under your treatment 1
was better. My legs are quite healed, and I never
felt better In my life than I do now.— Mrs. E.
Harden, Tate-street, North Shore.
To Mr. Cooper.
I wish to make known the benefit of your treat-
ment In my case. I had bad legs for two years,
and could get no relief anywhere ; you cured mo
In less than a month.— R. T. Eastwat, Eastway
Brothers, George-street.
To Mr. Cooper.
I beg to add my testimony to the efficiency of
your treatment. I had a bad leg for 16 months ; I
was under the care of three dootors, but when I
came to you I was worse than before. My leg Is
now quite healed, and I am well. I give you this,
so that others suffering may know where to go to
fet cured.—James M. Floyd, Fairford-street,
etersham.
Other Testimonials too numerous to print.
Hundreds of people in New South Wales can
testify to the cures effected by H. W. Cooper's in-
vention, and he has only been in the colony nine
months.
H. W. COOPER, 340 Crown-street,
Opposite Reservoir.
Advice gratis.
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
jy THE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco of the Age I
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The only Tobacco combining Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Price.
IW Each PLUG is STAMPED with the word
“EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain it.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
Ml’: Titan Ct, Li.
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
And can be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse,
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO.
Registered according to Act of Parliament, to pro-
tect the public against spurious and worthless
imitations.
Emil Paterson,
ARCHITECT AND CIVIL ENGINEER,
HQ, i FITT STREET.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
tr, shall be glad to have this index posted up by
W Jsretaries of racing cluhs and managers of
m tporting events in general .]
RACING.
kicm ,0 -;:v;:v:v;;;r. A TSs I:
< SA -i ■.Au!ru;,J.S-
A’B,Lv:Sh ro ) T C August 9,10.
Mary ioir«Club August 11.
W Vic ) : August 12.
Sale T.C. (Vic.) August 16.17.
m R C'' ’ August 23. 25.
Hawk<»bury K. September 1, 4, 6, 8.
T September 13,14.
• • September 19, 21.
r r September 21. 22.
pubbo J.L. • • .October 3, 4.
Club " October 6.
Amateur T.C October 13, 20.
1C fmnLn v T.C . October 17, 18.
Spring Novembers,6,8,10.
i K November 9.
SSeSSeRiver J.C. (Amateur)... November9.
SlKmwapg, T.C ■ N °ir S i: t
BSSSf/fc• December 22.
AQUATICS
, rr-nnhv August 4
New South Wales Association Regatta ..October 6.
COURSING .
„ a w nub August 10.
vicing;*
Australian Club August 29.
ATHLETICS.
University Athletic Sports August 1.
Fdwards v. O’Leary, 6 days’ walk August 6.
st Kilda College Sports • — ••••••• August 8.
Six Days’ Walking Sweepstakes. fi tQ 12.
n Murnhy v. W. Franks, mile walk.. .September 6.
WaUsendAthl .tic Club Meeting November 9.
BICYCLING.
Sydney B.C. Sports August 4
FOOTBALL.
M „e, V. nrlebene Olute at Brtrtwj.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
In youth try a bicycle ; in age Inly a tri-
cycle.
R.lwards-O’Leary combination start the
amny next Monday morning at Melbourne.
The Wilcannia Jockey Club have disquali-
iled Wee Jim and Slow Tom and their o.mer,
David Yates, for ever.
Fixtures for N<8. Wales footballers about
to visit Qneenslaad: 13th August, combined
Queensland ! 16th. Wallaroo Chib I l?th, Brisbane
Club; 33rd, return intercolonial match.
Captain Bogardus offers to shoot t)r.
Carver, or any other man in the world, at 100 birds,
anv ■ ales, for £1000to £2000 aside; or he will wager
that he can beat any man living in feats of wing
and glass-ball shooting.
Says the N.Y. Clipper;—" C. Depau, ama-
teur champion swimmer at 100 yards, sailed from
London for Melbourne on May 25. He proposes to
reside permanently at the Antipodes. M Indoe
Will now be able to measure his mettle by a private
bout with this distinguished amateur.
The Hon. W. M’CUlloch. Ititlde tt record at
the Australian Coursing meeting held at Werrlbee
Park. Vic., on Saturday last, by winning every
event of the day with Resida, Match Girl, Royal
Tar, and Manifesto, who won the Shipnel Plate,
the Werribee Park Plate, the Railway Stakes, and
the Junction Stakes respectively.
William Steele, the pedestrian who de-
feated Price in the ten-mile race, and who is now
matched to run Cummings, the Scotch flyer, in
America, was born in Ayrshire Scotland, in 1857.
He weighs 130 lb. and stands 5ft. 7>4in. in height.
The land o’ cakes holds the cake just now for long-
distance pedestrlanism.
Sydney Rowing Club Regatta, Saturday
last, Parramatta River. The maiden eights was
Won by J. W. Brodle’s crew ( J, Thomson won the
P'or sculls, hea.ting Gadcn and SlmpSoti; the
or double-sculls fell to Webster flhd Brelflerj
G. G. Forster won the junior sculls in ouI riggers;
and Jack Myers’ crew won the scratch eights.
The 48-hours’ go-as-you-please at Grenfell,
for prizes of £20. £7, and £3, was won by an old
man named Maher, who was persuaded to enter
merely to make up the stipulated number of
starters. Maher covered 170 miles 4 laps, a very
creditable performance for an old man with but
little preparation. Second man scored 154 miles,
and third 141 miles.
A N.Z. sporting paper writing on the
recent mill, says; “Miller got into Foley's mouth
three times.” It is, therefor ■, plain that it we
breed many more men like Foley, there will soon
be a startling decrease in the attraction of the Fish
River caves. Larrv’s mouth evidently only' re-
quires a tramp inside, and a bobby with a bull's-eye
at the entrance, to be a wharf boiler.
The Hanlan-Kennedy match was one of
the usual sort. Hanlan, finding he could hold his
man easily from the outset, rowed by the side of
him for a quarter of a mile or so, then, quickening
up, went away without an effort. Eventually
Hanlan paddled in an easy winner by twenty
lengths (about a couple of hundred yards), a dis-
tance which, to all appearances, might have been
doubled, if not trebled, had doubling or trebling it
been in any way necessary.
“Jacky” Thomson’s win at the Sydney
R.C. Regatta, on Saturday, is a further demonstra-
tion that, for puzzling performances, the amateur
sculler is peculiar. It also shows how careful the
public should be in accusing a professional with
rowing a sold race. Had Saturday’s race been a
professional one, and the competitors not above
all suspicion, Gaden would have had hard work to
persuade a great many that Thomson had defeated
him on his merits.
Very few witnessed the much-postponed
175 yards' race, Aplitt and Malone, which came off
at Norwood Park on Saturday afternoon. Malone
led by upwards of ten yards in the first 100, and
won as he liked. Aplftt has evidently seen his
day, and may now be relegated to the list of “ has
b»ens." Malone is a “ big-little ” man, who is said
to have gained athletic fame in the mother country'.
However, his home record is, so far, a deep and in-
scrutable mystery.
W. Snook, the well-known English ama-
teur, is stated to have recently run one mile on a
grass course, hard and uneven, in 4min. 22sec., at
nrewsbury. The following day he won a two-
niile race at Much Wenlock, in 7min. 60sec., but it
was afterwards discovered that he had run a lap
short Unfortunately the length of the lap was
not stated, so that it is not easy to arrive at the
exact merit of the performance, which was proba-
bly an unequalled one, for it is not probable that
the track was more than a quarter-mile in circum-
ference, and W. G. George’s best-on-record time
for a mile and three-quarters is 8min. 114-5sec,
Shotorer, Archer’s mount in the City and
Suburban at the Epsom CEng.) Spring Meeting,
was never in it, which proves that no jockey, no
matter what his ability, can make a horse win If
the equine is not good enough. After the first
half-mile or so, Shotover seemed utterly unable to
no the pace, and, when beaten, Archer showed
form that would have disgraced any third-class
jockey. A funny story went the rounds as to why
Scobell, ridden by Kosslter, did not show up better
at the finish. Rossiter had orders to keep close to
Archer—and he obeyed orders to the very letter.
If Archer had been left at the post It Is,to be pre-
sumed Rossiter would have stayed there with him.
On Friday evening, the trophies in connec-
tion with the Furness Cup were presented to the
successful players, at the Cambridge Club Hotel,
in the presence of fully 120 members of the junior
cricket clubs. The Osbornes were the winners of
the Furness Cup, and Our Boy’S appropriated the
Consolation Cup. The following were the prize-
takers for special play:—Highest not-out innings,
63, Dingle; highest single innings, 72, Kelly; best
batting average, 67, Varley: best average bowling,
Pearce; best fielding, Sanders; most catches, Clay-
ton; best wicket-keeping, Hanna; highest single
innings, final match, oble; highest average score,
winning club, Williams; most double figures,
Williams; biggest drinker of long beers at the Cup
pub, not stated.
The South Australian Rowing Association
are rowing d la Footscray-Melbourne as to the ad-
mission of tradesmen into their ranks, the Univer-
sity, I Zingari, Legal and Banks being against, and
the Norwoods, South Adelaides, and Ports, red hot
in favour of the manual-labour men. The N.S.W.
Association, by their admission of the Balmain
Club, must sooner or later draw themselves into a
similar muddle. Should a Balmain crew enter for
their regatta, fixed for October next, surely they
cannot refuse It after accepting the Club's annual
fee; and can they expect members of other clubs—
who seldom wield anything heavier than a quill—
to start against boiler-makers, shinglers, and to
cap all, professional boat-sailers, who would not be
allowed to start in a tradesman’s race ?
From the latest American papers it would
appear that the accounts given in several of the
N. Y. papers of Mitchell's set-to with Lynch were
incorrect, as Lynch never had a show with the
Englishman, who “ knocked him out” in the usual
three rounds. By the way, does it not appear
strange that the modem men can “knockout”
with soft gloves in something under a quarter of
an hour, when it used to take men such as Jem
Ward, Young Dutch Sam, and, to come to later
years, Sayers, Mace, and King, with very few ex-
ceptions. a deal longer to finish their battles with
the bare knuckles ? Can it be that the present
Kare more desperate fighters than the old-
rs, or is there alack of preparation? The'e
is something in it which would puzzle any of our
University professors, unless he put on the gloves
himself, and had a bout with—well, we will even
say Miller; and it took him three hours to make a
draw with little Foley.
The professional sculling race on Saturday
has shown that Beach has not made much improve-
ment in his wagerboat sculling in rough water;
and unless he can “ make it right ” with the clerk
of the weather for “ a river of glass ’’ on his match
days, he would no doubt do better to stick to the
light-skiff business, in which style of craft he is so
good that we have an idea that not even the re-
doutable “Shark Islander” could best him.
Trickett rowed 12st. 61b., and Beach a shade under
12st. The race started at five minutes to 5. Beaeh
at once took command and led his opponent, who
was rowing his old stroke, by half a length past
Uhr’s Point, in 2min. 8sec., but the rougn water
farther on knocked the Dapto man to pieces, and
Trickett led him two lengths past the mile point in
6min. 2sec. Trickett then had the race well in
hand, and won by some three lengths in the fast
time of 21min. 15sec. Heavy wind and tide in
favour of the scullers.
In America, at the New York Champion-
ship meeting, Myers was beaten by Brooks in the
220 yards. The pair jumped off perfectly level, and
Myers had just the barest lead to the beginning of
the curve. Favoured with the inside position and
running nretty wMe, he gained about five feet by
the time he reached the homestretch, and the race
looked over. Brooks, however, had now a chance
to run on even terms, and he began gradually to
get nearer to Myers. Thirty yards from the tape
he was within a yard, and then he made a superb
effort. Myers looked nervously over his shoulder
to seo where Brooks was, but never relaxed his
efforts. Fifteen yards to run and Brooks was still
half a yard behind, another five yards and Myers
began to waver, but was still in front; five yards
more they were level, and at Myers' next stride he
was completely spun out and fell forward over the
finishing-line as Brooks carried away the tape In
22 4-5sec. Brooks is the same man who beat
Myers last year in the 220 yards race, at the same
meeting, in 22 3 5 sec. Brooks is twenty-one years
old, 6ft 2%in. high, and weighs about list. 101b.
Myers is twenty-five years old, 6ft. high, and
weighs about 8st.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Rayuer is still issuing challenges. He now
wants to walk O'Leary Tasmanian Racing Club
has Increased the sweep for the Hobart Cup from
7 sovs. to 10 sovs — Victorian farmers will, most
likely, rue the Introduction of foxes Into that
colony. The farmers of Chester (Eng.) have started
a war of extermination against Reynard on account
of ravages to their hencotes The committee of
the N.8.W. Coursing Club have decided to fix the
days of nominatiou and entry for the Challenge
Cup for August 4th and 7th respectively— Wilson,
of the Carlton Football Club (Melh.), has been dis-
qualified for the remainder of the season by the
Victorian Football Association... Port Darwin (Q.)
Races, Friday, 27th July. Maiden Plate: Peer 1
Barefoot2, Norman 8. Flying Handicap: Canary 1,
Peer 2, Banter 3. Palmerston Cup: Kettledrum I,
Barefoot 2. Goldfields Plate: Masher 1, Banter 2,
Kettledrum 3. Hack Race: The Cow 1, Clear-the-
way 2. Much dissatisfaction caused on account of
the running in the Cup and Goldfields Plato...
Mr. Hordern’s pigeons A and BD came from Gun-
ning to Sydney, 165 miles, in 146min.... At New-
castle, on Friday, hack Little Dick beat hack Pot-
8-0 in a quarter-mile flutter for £50—Net profits
of Melbourne Cup meeting, £9547. But Champion
meeting lost £227, and Autumn meeting £2829...
Bast Sydney Footballers played Northumberland a
draw at West Maitland on FrUay last....Clarence
River Jockey Club amateur meeting on 9th No-
vember. Seven races. Prizes value £130; principal
race £50 gold Cup....The Wollongong Turf Club
Grandstand about to be erected is to cost £500....
The Raymond Terraceites are anxious to know
something more of the darkle ped. “Jennings,”
who recently defeated Tom Sutton.... At Noumea,
New Caledonia, Lord Orville won the Grand Prix
and Handicap Sweepstakes... Peter Watson, of
Queenscliff,« recently caught, single-handed, and
sailing his boat at the same time, 89 dozen barra-
coota in three days J. O. Inglis scratched Buzza
ten minutes before the start of the Malden Steeple-
chase at the late V.R.C Winter Steeplechase meet-
ing, on account of his non-success in trying to
back his horse at a certain price. The committee
took the matter in hand, and fined him £20. .. An-
other good horse gone wrong—Mr. Smart’s Melee-
bee Sunlight goes to New Zealand—Adelaide,
one of the best fillies Panic ever sired, recently
broke her leg and bad to be destroyed
The champion ot Mauritius is an Australian horse
named Wentworth, by Angler, from Yellow
Crystal, by Muscovado. He defeated Avernus
and others, nd it is said that in a couple of heats
for a two miles race, he carried 9st. 21b., and ran
the first in 3m. 37s., and the second in 3m. 39s—
No quorum at the meeting of the Tasmanian Turf
Club, when Mr. C. S. Agnow was disqualified—
Mr. Jack Wagner has won the Waterloo Cup three
times .. The Hawk was so hurt In his fall, when
M’Sorley was killed, that he has since been sold for
a fiver— Mr. A. P. Smart has purchased Dizzy for
400 sovs—M. Bryant gave 600 guineas last week
for Lothair—Edwards has offered to walk any
two men in New Zealand, six days, they halving the
time to suit themselves. £100 a side On Satur-
day last the University-Burwood football match
resulted In a draw, both sides scoring two points.
The Arfomas defeated the Newtown Club by 2
tries 4 points to 1 try 2 points; and Uedfern beat
Bathurst by 2 points. At Melbourne, the Mel-
b urne Club defeated the Carltons: and at Ade-
laide the Ports were successful against the South
Parks — At Braidwood, on Saturday last, Frier de-
feated the local champion in a 130-yards’ spin for a
fiver.
* * *
Joe Coburn, the ex-champion pugilist,
having heard that Ji.hn L. Sullivan claims he
could nave knocked out Hyer or Morrissey, says:
** Any man that has to brace himself up on brandy
to light Mitchell, a man forty pounds lighter than
himself, is not the man to knock such men as Hyer
or Morrissey out.”... William Steele, whodefeated
Price at ten miles and also beat the American re-
cord for that distance, is an Englishman. Restates
that ho is ready to run any man in America ten
miles for £200 a side In the 36 hours (six hours
per day for six days) go-as-you-please race at
Sheffield, England, on May 19, George Littlewood
was the winner. He covered 243 miles 954 yards;
G. Mason was second, with 226 miles, 1625 yards,
and Cartwright third, with 215 miles, 1486 yards
Thus “ Pendragon “ Sullivan, according to the
accounts of his own reporters, appears to be
nothing more than a big, bull-rushing ruffian. I
can imagine such a man as Mace was once letting
him expend all his force upon the wind in the first
two rounds, and then finishing him off out of hand
in the final...Maurice Vignaux, the French billiard
champion, defeated tacob Schaeferin a baulk-line
match for £200 a side on June 12 Mike Donovan
offers to fight Mitchell for a cool thou, a side.. .
Maud S. is working into splendid form and will
this season probably surpass herself. At Hartford,
Conn. (C.S.), on Juno 8, she was jogged three easy
heats. The first mile was m de in 2.30, the second
in 2.26, and the third in 2.14%. The last milo was
trotted with the least exertion of any... Kennedy,
though beaten by “the phenomenon,” is stated to
be a first-class sculler. He is a powerful man,
stands Bit. 6in., and is a remarkably pretty oars-
man. He ought to be about Laycock’s “ dart.”
It is now expected in England that Mace will go
around being “ knocked out ” by lords—that the
lords will acquire a reputation for pluck and skill,
and that Ma'‘o will grow rich on his own defeats...
The “unknown,” selected by the editor of the Lon-
don Sporting Life to fight Sullivan, is 28, weighs
list. 71b , and as a first-class record, we shouldn’t
be surprised if he turned out to bo Greenfield
Jay Gould’s new steam-yacht, on her trial trip, did
33 miles in 103 rain At the glove-fight with Mit-
chell, says the Turf, Field, and Farm, “ Sullivan
looked like a man just recovering from a debauch,
still he moved and struck with celerity and vigour.
The Boston i oxer has more science than most of
the critics have been disposed to attribute to him.”
The Slade-Mitchell fight, with bare knuckles, for
£800, eventuates Uth Sept At the Ascot (Eng.)
Races, W. A. Long’s two-year-old, Philosopher,
started in the Twenty-sixth Ascot Biennial Stakes
and the New Stakes. In the former race he left
the post second favourite at 5 to 2, but only
managed to get a place. In the latter, he ran
last. Mr. Long has evidently not yet dropoed
upon an English Grand Flaneur or Petrea
At a recent foot-race at Sedgley, Eng., Daniel Cox
when starting stumbled and fell against a wall,
dying instantly from a broken neck and concussion
of the brain....The new English cutter Marjorie
had a touch recently with the Vanduara and r ‘put
her through.” —It is alleged that at a meeting of
the London Athletic Club, J. M. Cowie ran 160
yards, less six Inches, in 14 4-5sec. II.. Following
were the distances made daily by Miss Louise
Armaindo, the winner of the Chicago, U.8.,
seventy-two-hour bicycle race (twelve hours each
day) :— First day 143 miles, second day 286, third day
422, fourth day 560, fifth day 701, sixth day 843—
At the end ot May, Archer headed the list of win-
ning English jockeys with 51 wins, C. Wood 43,
G. Fordharn 36, and Martin and Loates 17 each
In the regatta at Harwich, England, on Juno 11,
the new cutter Marjorie won the Queen’s Cup.
Among the competing yachts wore the Miranda,
Samaena, Spindrift, and other crack boats Tom
Cannon receives £1500 from J. R. Keene for first
claim on his services, and P. Lorillard gives him
£1000 for the call after Mr. Keene. These sums are
in addition to riding fees and travelling expenses.
— At a recent wrestling show in the States, the
programme opened with a Roman wrestling
match, Muldoon appearing us the Hon, Dinnie,
Riga), and Dietman as helpless lambs, Muldoon’s
task being to throw his men in order seven times
within half an hour. Dietman went down first in
0.47, Rigal followed in 3.35, Dinnie was spread out
on his back in 3.28. Dietman came next in 1.11,
Rigal spinning time out to 9.25, Dinnie in 3.43 bad
enough. Dietman quietly closed the contest by
lying down in 0.28, Muldoon thus winning with 6.23
to spare. The Yankee papers call this a wonder-
ful performance—and so it was. Remarkable
for the nice adjustment of time, as each
event was evidently run off to order
Two 36-hour pedestrian events, the contestants in
which travelled six hours daily for six days, were
concluded at Sheffield (Eng) May 19. Result:
Walking race—J. W. Raby, 208 nines 1714 yards;
Thomas, 199 miles 219 yards; M’Carthy, 196 miles
106 yards; Higgins, 165 miles 1043 yards. Running
race—George Littlewood, 243 miles 954 yarus; G.
Mason, 226 miles 1625 yards; Cartwright, 213 miles
1486 yards; Hope, 210 miles 536 yards: Fitzpatrick,
202 miles 1385 yards Solomon, in all his glory,
could not have fancied himself one tithe so much
as did Fred Archer, when, in brand new cap and
jacket, brand new breeches and boots, with a brand
new saddle and bridle, ho gavorted around the
paddock on Shotover Suddenly, in a horror-
stricken voice, a man in the back row of the circle
cried out —“ Hi I Fred 1” The great horseman
turned in the saddle. “ Your shirt’s hanging out I”
Amid a roar ot laughter, the Tinman passed one
hand round t<> the small of his back. But
wasn’t it frivolous ? ... There are about two
hundred Cycling Clubs in London, containing
some five or six thousand members. There
are between six and seven hundred Clubs in Eng-
land, containing from 16,000 to 20,000 members.
The Cyclist’s Touring Club contains 7U00 members.
It is estimated there are about 150,000 bicyclists,
and 20,000 tricyclists in England, and in London
alone 20,000 and 3000 respectively The cry is still
they come. Another aspirant for the knocking
out of John L. Sullivan, has turned up in Mr.
O’Donnell, who is boss of a quarry at Ottawa,
Canada, his native place, is six feet in height,
weighs240 pounds, and will trim down to 220 pounds.
His biceps measure 18 inches; thigh inches,
and calf of leg 18 inches. A finer specimen
of manhood it would be hard to find, each muscle
being as hard as iron, and his quick movements
show that he is no amateur in athletic sports
On Thursday, May 24, a »love-fight that reminded
one of tne “good old times” took place in San
Francisco. The contestants were to fight for a
puree of £200. They were Ed. Homan, winner of
the late Cottle fight, a very clever and good two-
handed fighter, and Pat O’Connell, the “ dangerous
blacksmith.” Patsy Hogan was chosen referee
and William Muldoon timekeeper. Homan was
heavily handicapped, O’Connell being Inches
taller and looked fifteen pounds heavier. Both
went at it with a will, and it was right and left all
around the stage, the first three rounds being in
favour of Homan: but alter that it was down-hill
for him, he having hurt his right arm and being
unable to use it. However, he kept on fighting
with his left as long as he could move. During the
sixth, seventh, and eighth rounds, O’Connell threw
Homan off the stag© into the audience repeatedly.
The second time Homan hurt his hip, but kept at
it until twelve rounds were fought, when he said
“ Enough,” and the fight was awarded to O’Con-
nell—
A “DAWG” STORY.


e d
R N I T U B E SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
HALL FURNITURE. HAT8TANDS, and
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb. __________
IBRARY FUUNIT URE, CENTRE and SIDE
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb, Furniture Importers, Spring and
O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
TVrOVBLTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
JLx SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
A FTERNOON TEA TABLES, elegant and Inex-
/% pensive. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell-street.
MARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
~ff~> ILLIARP Tables, full size, with appurten-
II ances ; also smaller Convertible Tables, 7 and
8 feet—mav be used as dining tables. Now on view.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, Importers, Spring
and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
EDSTBADS, all sizes, at lowest prices. BRAD-
_ LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Importers,
Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
E' IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY,
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 30s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, fram 35s; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from 10s 6d; Tables, from 7s 6d: Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 30s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 35s; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
B
OTk
85s
RADLE’
NEWTON
and
SYDNEY
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs In Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 85s, BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
3>
RAWING-ROOM CABINETS—Early English,
■ w Anglo-Japanese, and Chippendale designs.
Just opened. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
streets.
Dining-room furniture.—Magnificent
Suites in Walnut, Oak, and Mahogany. Side-
boards, Dinner Waggons, &c., to match. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O’Connell streets.
RASeWORK f or~ DR A WIN GandIHNIN G
ROOM FURNITURE, Handsome and Massive,
In Oak, Walnut and Mahogany. The VERY BEST
REAL MOROCCO SKINS, and Materials for up-
holstery. Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB.
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
B
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell-street.
WASH8TAND8, with marble, 25s'each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
ARDEN SEATS and Verandah Chairs.—Brad-
ley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
G
BENTWOOD FURNITURE. —A very complete
Assortment Just opened; many quite new,
designs.
Occasional chairs in very great
Variety, Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c., Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
PFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c., Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
TCE CHESTS, all sizes, very superior make. Ex-
JL amine before purchasing. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
I
S'
RON SAFES, various sizes. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
ITEINWAY NEW YORK PIANOS, the FINEST
in the world. A SHIPMENT just landed.
GQ GUINEA PIANO, WARRANTED soundi
and durable, In solid walnut case; specially
adapted for beginners or schools.
_ BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Oi"hGUINEA PIANO, brilliant toned, full com-
O vF pass, all the latest improvements, in hand-
some walnut case; WARRANTED SOUND and
DURABLE ; BEST VALUE in the trade.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
T IPP'S CELEBRATED PIANOS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB
have received
another LARGE SHIPMENT
of
R. LIPP and SONS’ celebrated PIANOFORTES
direct from the Makers, comprising TALL
GRANDS, LITTLE UPRIGHT GRANDS, SA-
LOON GRANDS, VERY HANDSOME and of the
HIGHEST CLASS FINISH,
WALNUT and BLACK GOLD.
I &T WE HAVE NOW THE LARGEST STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA OP
LIPP’S PIANOS
TO SELECT FROM.
WE INVITE INSPECTION.
FOR PRIVATE SALE AT EXTREMELY LOW
PRICES.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Pianoforte Importers,
O’Connell and Spring streets.
SOCIAL.
Hudson Brothers’ affair was a big boom, if
you like. Hundreds of typical men in commerce
and politics, who could conveniently get away
from business, were there, and hundreds, who
could not get away conveniently, got away some-
how, and were there later on. Hundreds of ladies
—notice the deep wisdom of it — were invited, and
with that sweet condescension which renders their
sex superior to almost every other, they went.
There was a touch of chivalry In inviting the
ladies there, notwithstanding the O'Connor’s pathe-
tic lament over the decline of knightly loyalty In
these practical, pushing days. They, the ladies,
looked pretty, graceful, and fragile amidst all that
massive machinery, those whirring wheels, huge
timbers, and —“ old buffers.” Then, the questions
they asked, oh! such innocent questions, about the
bits of wood, and wheels, and things: If there’s any
one thing the female mind can grasp more com-
pletely than the mysteries of cricket, it’s the
machinery of a carpenter’s shop. As visitors came
on to the ground, the workmen arrayed outside
with their implements of trade, gave them a
reception, and the Ironworkers, with their ham-
mers, indulged in an “ anvil chorus.” Over
a thousand people were present, and after a
light luncheon, time was spent looking over the
works, the Premier setting the engines going by
turning a little wheel—and he will do well if ho can
always turn the little wheel of the Government as
easily. There were great throbbing machines that
bent up stout iron like cardboard, yet controlled
by a touch of the baud; saws that break up trunks
six feet thick as if slicing bread; steam hammers,
machines for drilling, planing, morticing, curving
and cutting: every click and clank of their beauti-
ful mechanism proclaiming in metallic voice the
inevitable domination of "mind over matter.”
Through the gazing crowd, probably one of the
greatest gatherings, in a sense, ever seen in the
colony, strolled Sir John, with a young lady in
each hand, the veteran Sir Alfred, the stout-built
Minister of Works, the towering Treasurer, head
and shoulders over his fellows, Mr. Sheridan, who
watched the engines “ acting.” and many others.
Perhaps the scene had whetted appetite, for there
was great eagerness to attack the banquet board
before the appointed time, and people were seen
vehemently pushing up the stairs whom you really
wouldn't expect to see doing it. After all, there
was plenty of room for everybody. The banquet
was well done by Compagnoni, one of the largest
efforts of the kind yet managed in New South
Wales; wines were good, and champagne abund-
ant. Mr. Henry Hudson, who was chairman,
and said grace, was flanked on either hand
by members of the Ministry, and down the long
length of glittering tables there wasn’t a face that
hadn’t determination stamped on it. There were
men there who gave one look at a turkey and it
gobbled no more. There were sweet women, as
ethereal as the elfins in Titiania’s train, who could
smile at seven jellies, and they’d fade like a dream.
There was just one short, sharp skirmish, a clash
of steel, a flash of nickel-plated silver, and then
the desolated tables told a tale of what Australian
men and women can do. Then the clatter hushed,
the silvery voices begged no more for custard
cream, and the turbulent throng settled down tq
listen to speeches, and hand one another conversa-
tion lollies. All the words spoken are chronicled
elsewhere, in those brilliant columns that tell a
benighted world of “ Pious Billy,” “ Freethought,
frail and fallible,” and the “Murderous Motor;”
and we will not, by repeating anything, lessen the
circulation of those estimable prints. There you
will find how the toasts were given—the Queen,
the Governor (who wasn’t there), and Lleut-Gover-
nor, the Ministry, Parliament, Hudson Brothers,
Mr. Selfe, their engineer, Manufacturing, Com'-
mercial, and Pastoral Interests—all in full. The
Press was put on at the tail, and then, most impor-
tant of all, Woman. Ah! just one line. The very
theme, above all others, man most wants informa-
tion on. Dan was the man. The gazelle eye does it,
and the laste taste of a rich brogue. Then Dan
rose to declare the days of chivalry departed.
Well, perhaps so. It may have been very chival-
rous to draw your falchion (whatever that is) from
its sheath and fight some fellow you never saw
before, over a lady’s glove; or to poke a lance
through another gallant spooney’s ribs because he
had the bad taste to prefer a blonde girl when
yours happened to be a brunette. We have lost
all those little harmless pleasures now; so perhaps
chivalry has disappeared. But we have railways
and sleeping cars, and other trifling advantages,
so we’ll try to bear up. And, as any man who’d
go knight-erranting for a fayre ladye nowadays
would be sure to get run in, to say nothing of
raising a scandal, perhaps it’s just as well there’s
not too much chivalry. The O’Connor, however,
is a most charming speaker on women (or ladies—
it’s very hard to tell the two apart), and can always
get up a full head of fervency at short notice; and
when he spoke of the solace that stole over the
spirit of the wearied man of business as he em-
braced some t - uo and noble woman-- presumably
a relative—we felt our stoicism nearly giving way
to the wicked temptation of taking one
of Dan’s solacrs and trying what it was
like. The National Anthem was the signal
for rising, and saved us. Afterwards, a few ladies
and gentlemen changed dresses in rooms set apart
for doing so, so as to present a correct appearance
at the ball: but the majority wore walking cos-
tumes, and there was little snowiness. Mrs. John
Smith wore a crushed strawberry, modestly made,
and a hat of glistening gold; and the honorable
and compact Minister of Instruction basked in her
presence. Mr. 8. Hodge, leader of the City Band,
loft his clarionet to whirl the charming Miss Louise
Davenport, in ruby satin and velvet. Miss Perdriau
donned myrtle green velvet, and her sister’s black
velvet contrasted well with a fair complexion.
Mr. Sydney Smith seemed as happy as his famed
namesake was witty. One pretty valseuse from
Balmain was in black, another in brown; a con-
tractor’s daughter, in plain black corded silk and
white kerchief, and a consul’s in simple check silk,
cardinal belt and shoulder-knot. A handsome
toilet was sage green watered silk and plush, hat to
match; a Darlinghurst lady displayed a fine prune
satin; and a blonde chose pure white. Most ladies
wore quiet colours, which are not obtrusive in the
electric light, but the most effective under its
luminous rays was decidedly the black brochs
covered with beads, worn by a Woollahra lady,
which looked splendid. Refreshments adlib, were
at hand all through till midnight, when the last of
the party broke up. Wall programmes were used,
and the City Band’s music was secured.
* * *
A wedding environed with particularly
fashionable associations occurred at Dunedin on
the 13th July. It was that of the Hon. E. W.
Parker, son of the Earl of Macclesfield, and nephew
to the Duke of Westminster, and Miss Fanny
Emma, eldest daughter of Captain Baldwin, long
resident in Dunedin. The chip! groomsman, more-
over, was Mr. Shaw Stewart, son of Sir M. S.
Stewart, Bart. Seven bridesmaids wore green
nun’s-veiling, trimmed with cream lace, fern
wreaths and fern-patterned brooches. The bride s
dress was white satin de lyon, duchesse point lace,
E earls and diamonds. Honeymoon through the
ake district. Curious little Incidents connected
with the marriage are, that the officiating clergy-
man, Ven. Archdeacon Edwards, had married the
bride’s parents in the same church twenty years
before, and that no less than eight of her family
wore in his choir.
♦ * *
Many yeary ago, one Barney Rhodes was a
carter in New Zealand. He prospered, and was
gathered to his fathers. Last month, the daughter
of the late Honorable W. B. Rhodes, a half-caste
and an heiress worth half a million sterling, was
married to Mr. Edward Moorhouse. The ceremony
was one of the most imposing ever known in Wel-
lington. and the bride’s dress of ivory ottoman silk
and satin train, brocaded bodice, lace and dia-
monds, was a marvel of richness. Maids’ dress,
white cashmere, decked with real holly. There are
ups and downs in the world: this is an instance
or ups.
• • •
The bachelors of Maitland gave a bread
and butter dance at the School of Arts on Thurs-
day last. Nearly all the ladies were from East
Maitland; the gentlemen, miserere! from where-
ever they could be got. A lawyer’s wife was nice
in pink; two daughters of a cleric so tempting in
cream as to at once suggest the idea of spoons:
and three ladies who might divide the initials “ M
or N,” also divided the colours pink and blue. A
maiden, postally related, was bewitching in simple
white muslin, and boro a stamp of beauty which
could not be licked. A Sydney visitor was there—
all there. That’s slang, but it’s no worse than
twang, and Spicer says we all use that. And, in
pale pink, was an engaged young lady, who is still
engaging. They all said it was an enjoyable affair.
# • •
To country girls a ball is not the everyday
affair that it is to the blasd metropolitan belle. The
fair fragilities who stay at home, even though a
carriage comes to the door, if the night be rainy,
don’t think perhaps of all that a ball “in the bush”
means; the careful laying out of fold-creased
finery, and sending to the township for trimmings
and trifles, or the anxious waiting for the dress
from town that is late in coming. And then the
Journey, all day, or two or three days, across the
ranges and the flooded creeks, or plodding over
endless plains where the grinding buggy wheels
slosh and swish through the crabholes filled with
muddy water, till at last the little cluster of white
roofed houses appear on the horizon far ahead. A
ball In the bush means a good deal of this sort of
thing, to say nothing of the labour (pardon us, dear
bucolic belles) involved in dancing. A large party
of us, says a lady, started early one morning from
a station on the fiarwon, bound for the Bachelors’
Ball at Brewarrina, and, with fine weather and
spanking horses, by midday pulled up at Oollawa-
roy, where we camped for lunch, and changed
horses. A fire was made, provisions got out,
and the billy tea was as nectar to our taste.
Then, starting again, we arrived without in-
cident at Brewarrina, crossed at the punt, and
drove right through the town to the vicarage,
where preparations had been made, and the vicar
did all he could to make our stay pleasant. Visi-
tors in the evening; and next day we inspected
the show the fisheries, and the town, where the
fine store-windows were all gay with ball requi-
sites. Then came the ball; dancing began
at 9, and a programme of twenty-seven dances
carried us through to 4 o’clock. We used
a very large room, brightened with flags and
Chinese lanterns, white lace curtains round the
doors, and coloured damask and chintz draped
around the walls; mirrors, fans, and flowers com-
pleted the effect. A balcony niche, cosily fitted
with chairs, formed an inviting retreat, and supper
was tastily laid in a separate room festooned with
green. Of the pretty dresses, we admired very
much a French grey silk, covered with Limerick
lace and sprays of pink flowers, worn by the wife
of a local surveyor; then a white silk and velvet,
ornamented with poonah painting, on a young
lady from Richmond : a ruby velvet, trimmed
with honiton lace and white unmounted roses,
was also lovely—many others being pretty too. A
cricket match one day, races the next, a picnic
following, and a dance in the evening, brought the
carnival week to a close at Brewarrina, after such
a round of gaiety as its residents don’t often have.
We went away delighted, and hoped when we
again visit Brewarrina to find as much gaiety—and
a good deal more grass.
* * *
The usual Winter Party was held at Orange
last week (26th), and the company was numerous,
the fair sex being most strongly represented. Out
of many pretty dresses and figures, the daughter
of the local knight of the hammer and Miss Fitz-
gerald were the most conspicuous. Miss Dlghton
in blue and cardinal, and Miss Stabback in black,
looked graceful. Miss Kite, also in black, being a
good dancer, claimed a fair share of attention, as
did also Miss Morrison, in black and plaid. Miss
Lane, in blue and straw, was not allowed to rest
much; and a little lady in cardinal and white
Idoked charming enough to steal the heart of any
man. Music and floor being good, the company
enjoyed themselves to the utmost. It is a notice-
able fact that on every occasion the gentlemen are
getting more modern in their dancing.
• * *
A fashionable marriage takes place at two
o’clock to-day (Thursday) in the Church of Eng-
land at St. Peters. Mr. Arthur Smith, well-known
in that suburb, and son of a Southern squatter. Is
to be united to the daughter of the Hon. S. H.
Terry, M.L.C., of Ashfield. There is wealth on
both sides.
• • •
On Saturday, at St. John’s, Ashlield, the
daughter of the Hon. Henry Halloran is to be led
to the altar by a scion of the house of M'Pheilamy,
We sympathetically notice that the Thes-
pian profession has been suffering severely from a
matrimonial epidemic. On Sunday, Mr. Arthur
Rodney, of the Gaiety company, was united ati
Christ Church, Sydney, to Miss Jennie Gwynne,
who was supported by Misses Louise Beaudot and
Blanche Reives as bridesmaids, and given away by
Herr Bandmann. Mr. Harwood was the bride-
groom’s best man. Honeymoon, on the Gaiety
stage every evening. On Monday, Miss Pomeroy
was wedded to Mr. A. Elliott at Sandhurst. At
Newcastle, Miss Rosa Towers last week became
Mrs. Herbert Wood (otherwise Mr. Dubois).
• * •
Wednesday, 8th, is fixed for the Granville
ball. His Excellency the Governor is expected to
be present.
• • •
Mr. and Mrs. Schwartzkoff gave a pleasant
evening party at the Protestant Orphan School,
Parramatta, in honour of their eldest daughter’s
eighteenth birthday, on Wednesday, 25th July.
The ballroom was prettily decorated, the floor in
capital order, music delightful, and the company
jolly. Most of the visitors came by water. The
costumes of some of the ladies were excessively
pretty. A brunette in skirt of cream nun’s-veil-
mg, with yellow satin bodice, looked nice. A lady
from Paddington in red velvet danced charmingly.
Two sisters from the Western road, dressed In
dark costumes, were interesting; whilst a young
lady, a resident of Parramatta (formerly or Mus-
weilbrook), blessed with a pretty face and good
figure, wore brown silk. Harris Park was repre-
sented by a petite little lady, whose dress was
charming, as also her dancing. From Elder House
came two volatile young ladies; and the daughter
of a Church-street publisher, dressed in a dark
costume, looked nice and danced beautifully.
During the evening some of the company con-
tributed songs. Pleasant trip in the moonlight-
some in vehicles, some in boats ; and visitors’
verdict for host and hostess—awfully jolly affair.
* * »
On Friday evening, 27th July, Mrs. James
Ingram Moore, of Armidale, gave the most suc-
cessful and brilliant children s fancy dress ball
that has ever taken place in the New England
district. Some of the juveniles not more than six
years old set the characters off to more advantage
than if they had been sustained by adults. A
Suaint old Granny was represented by Miss Maggie
leghorn, and little Mary Sheldon was capital in
the dress of a Puritan. The ball was opened by a
promenade of about 50 couples, and it was amusing
to see an Aboriginal (Harry Bray) trying to keep
out of the crush as mucli as possible, fearful lest
his bare feet should be trodden upon, and for the
remainder of the evening he retired to a corner
out of danger. Miss E. Gill, as a Charity Girl, was
good; while Constance Bmblin, as Nancy Lee, and
Miss Edie Mallam, as Dolly Varden, put some of
the other dresses in the shade. But the prettiest
costumes in the room were those of Miss Amy
Bray (an Italian Girl), Miss Sybil Cox (a Swiss
Peasant), Miss Scott (a Brittany Peasant), and
Miss Sarah M’Donald (a Shepherdess) : and of
these it was difficult to pick the best. There was
a very substantial Fairy, who would have found it
difficult to fly. Of the male characters, foremost
shone Charles Moore as a Jockey. Master Stanley
Wilson as a young Mussulman, with roomy
breeches, had good stowing capacity for the
dainties of the supper room. George Bradley (a
youngster of 4) a Courtier, Frank Potts as a
Student, and Arthur Richardson as a Neapolitan
Peasant, were well got up. Of the regiment of
toy soldiers there, C. Bloomfield was the best
dressed; of pages, Willie Moore; of cricketers, D.
M’Donald. The Scotch Laddie was best repre-
sented by Herbert Weaver; while the crew of
young sailors, whose pale bare necks and shoulders
gave one the idea that they had never been to sea
except in the bath, was captained by George
Hogarth. Hampton Brennand made a capital
Clown. A little Cook was present, but he preferred
the seclusion of a corner to going near the supper
room, fearful lest his buns and pies should be used
by his friends as instruments of “ sarkasum.”
• • *
Venus herself would scarcely appear to
advantage with blue cold nose and wrinkled brow;
and the unmercifully piercing character of the
westerly wind, trying to the temper as well as the
complexion, and the dread of its unbeautifying
effect on their appearance, could have been the
only drawback to the enjoyment of the few ladies
present at the regatta of the Sydney Rowing Club
on Saturday afternoon last. The Club men, of
course, could not be considered responsible for
the only disagreeable part of the programme—the
weather; but all the arrangements for which they
were accountable were highly satisfactory. At the
cottage, on the very picturesque grounds of the
Club on the Parramatta River, a bright Are and
most abundant and excellent refreshments were
provided for the visitors who landed there. Most
acceptable were the hot tea and coffee, etc. (this
‘ ‘ etc.” i ncluded liquids of more exhilarating nature
for the gentlemen) after the blow up the river.
The programmes were got up in a tasteful style.
Mr. Delolttc was courtesy itself; and, altogether,
the regatta was worthy of a much larger atten-
dance than that which patronised it. The German
Band from the “ Mary ” played some lively music
at the ground; but the breezes blew keenly, and
most ot the ladies appeared to prefer the shelter of
the cottage verandah to the seats on the lawn.
There was not much to remark in the toilettes—
costumes, for the most part, being composed of
warm dark materials, suitable to’ the weather.
One of the handsomest was a dark green velvet
dress, with puffings of pale green satin down the
front of skirt: princess bonnet of dark green
straw, trimmed with velvet and feathers to
match. A combination of brown velvet,
with a lighter shade of satin was very
pretty. The bonnet worn with this was of dark
brown straw, with trimming and feathers of
similar colour. A black brochd satin jacket with
long coat-tails (reaching to the bottom of the skirt),
lined with pale pink silk, was peculiar in style. A
study in red was shown by a young lady whose
whole costume was of different shades of that
colour. Largo felt hat, with feather, jacket of
velvet and merino skirt, were of the degrees red,
rodder, and reddest. There were several pretty
costumes of brown and black trimmed with many
rows of gold braid, One dress of ruby velvet and
cashmere had, for trimming, embroidery of ruby
and black beads. Light grey doth skirt, with
jacket of brown velvet, was tasteful. Tartan,
as trimming for hats and bonnets, was favoured a
good deal. Black fur capes were numerous,
and two or three long rodingotes appeared.
* * *
So rich, and even gorgeous, were some of the
costumes which adorned the Block during the past
week, that to many admirers of their splendour
the wish was suggested that there were a better
field for the display of so much beautv than the
narrow pavement of George-street. On the lawn
in the Lower Botanic Gardens all the pretty dresses
would be seen to much greater advantage. We
have hoard of the City Band, and understood that
it was to give open-air performances occasionally
for the pleasure of the citizens; but hitherto we
have not got much beyond hearing of it. The
handsomest of the costumes alluded to were one
of prune velvet and satin; a black velvet, made
with long pointed panlers trimm’d with embroidery
of gold beads; ruby-coloured brochd velvet Jacket
with ruby satin skirt: this was really splendid.
Another of blue brochd satin and plain velvet of
similar colour was pretty as well as rich. A Jacket
and tunic of crushed strawberry over a black
velvet skirt was more remarkable for its peculi-
arity than for good taste. Mixtures of checked
with plain materials seem popular: some costumes
of this style are very tasteful. Very few of the
long redlngotes are seen, though. To take one’s
walks abroad in the weather of the last few days
requires a stoical indifference to discomfort truly
wonderful. I noticed a very pretty hat of dark
green velvet, with feathers of same colour, the
brim raised In front, two large crushed roses
underneath, loops ot green satin ribbon fastened
with buckles.
• • •
During the show week at Deniliquin, a
grand return ball was given at the Town Hall to
Mr. and Mrs. Darchy, who bad just returned from
their bridal tour. About 150 were present.
Social continued on next page.


SOHO BAZAAR,
352 GEORGE STREET
(Paling’s Old Premises).
THIS BAZAAR, which has just been OPENED,
will be found to contain a superior assort-
ment of
Brie a Brae, Articles of Yertft,
Terra Cotta, China-ware, &c.,
and all varieties of
EANCY GOODS AND TOYS.
We draw attention to the following few lines
Tricycles, all sizes, from 28s.
Automatic Ink Pencil, Is,
42-inch double leather Bug Straps, Is. pair
French Dolls, at all prices
French Models, from Is.
Travellers’ Leather Inkstands, Is.
Gent's superior Dressing Cases. 2is.
Parian Marble Figures, from 5s. 6d.
Work Baskets, at all prices.
INSPECTION INVITED.
Solio Bazaar
352 George Street.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO,
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG Is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
smoko a decent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
with a moderate price.
HEYDE, TODMAN & CO.,
YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ON THE
ZBriclstielcL Hill.
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS in LACE CURTAINS.
Ladies residing;
Curtains. If
LACE CURTAINS, lOO PRICES.
in the country can have forwarded to the nearest Bailway Station, Free of Charge, a Set of Lace
you like the pattern which is represented in this engraving, cut it out, and we will forward exactly
the same pattern. See future advertisements for other patterns.
JEST 1 These Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers
s
aw
►
►
WHS
Mb**
MaA
MM
ONE ONLY ADDRESS:—
LACE CURTAINS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Irish Linen Table Damasks, to match the Curtains. Table Napkins. Linen Diapers. Embroidered Table Covers.
Mosquito Nets. Striped and Plain Window Union. Examine carefully the engraving or our
“LACE CURTAINS.” <•
EDWARD HORDERN & ,
| LACE CURTAINS | 668 BRICKFIELD HILL. | LACE CURTAINS |
Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
The Mayor’s ball is being busily worked
ud by the committee and secretary (Mr. Harcus),
and the number of tickets already taken is enough
to ensure a good ball. It will be the most fashion-,
•Jtble affair of the season, and fancy dress for once
will have a rest.
• • •
Randwiok Assembly took place last Thurs-
day, in the Town Hall there. A large number of
Sydney and other visitors went. Special tram
home A great gathering is expected at the As-
sociation Ground on Saturday, when the bicycle
sports occur. The entries promise exciting races,
and the last things, nice and new, will be seen in
dress. City Band plays — The woman who hasn’t
a crushed strawberry bonnet now, with a pink
feather, feels that life is a burden.
* * * *
After supper at Government House up
North. Genial host (log.): “Well, now, you have
all enjoyed yourself pretty well, but I don’t be-
lieve you’d have done so had you only known I did
it all for three-and-six a head” It is announced
that Mrs. Langtry is to come to Melbourne on a
sixteen weeks’ engagement. Halves 1 — “ Pointed
roof” bonnets are the rage in Melbourne. We’ll
have them in Sydney in 1885, maybe —On the 9th
August, the Mayor of Melbourne gives a grand
ball Mr. H. Mortimer Franklyn was married at
All Saints’, St. Kilda, last Wednesday, to Miss
Henrietta Isabel Seals, youngest daughter of John
Seals, Esq., of Hobart. The bride’s dress of otto-
man brocade was cut square, and had an Eliza-
bethan collar edged with pearls. The bridesmaids
wore crushed strawberry plush and cream muslin
skirts, much flounced — The Licensed Victuallers’
ball, at Melbourne, was attended by about four
hundred, in the Town Hall; evening dress.
Sutch’s music, sit-down supper, “Queen ” the only
toast. On the programme were the Caledonians and
Alberts, which are never danced at Sydney balls...
A very pretty decoration at Hudson's fate con-
sisted of orange boughs hung in the ballroom; the
ripe yellow fruit peeping out from the dark leaves
looked very Australian.... .Tasmanian bicyclists
have had a ball.... On the 13 th July, the annual
Bachelors’ ball took place at Cobar in the Com-
mercial Hotel, when there was a good attendance:
music fetched from Bourke. A second dance fol-
lowed on the next night —On Monday week, Mr.
Humphris, commission agent of Sydney, was mar-
ried at the Congregational Church, Ulladulla, to
Miss Eva Garrad, and embarked the same evening
for Sydney, the Allowrie being decorated in honour
of tne event by the gallant captain. Only the
other week, Mr. Colman, of Narrandera, had taken
another bride out of the district On the 19th
July, at the Sacred Heart, Miss Gertrude Skinner,
who wore ivory brochd and cashmere, enprincessc,
with square train, became Mrs. K. 8. Vaughan.
When Mr. Vaughan gave her his initials, no doubt
he put a vowel between the KandS. ..On Satur-
day, Messrs. Hudson Bros., Lmtd., gave a grand
f6te to over a thousand of their employes and
families, at Clyde works—The employes of Hotf-
nung and Co. presented Mr. 8. Hoffnung, who has
come to Sydney from London, with a beautiful
Illustrated address bound in book form. The affair
was at the residence of Mr. D. Marks, manager,
Potts’ Point. Refreshments on the lawn, and a
photo, of the group—One of the wants of Yass 1
is a Mayoress. This, surely, will be an exception 1
to the rule of begging the member for the dis-
trict to use his influence with the Government....
The suite of furniture (black satin, hand-painted)
which was art-unioned by Mrs. Martin at the St.
Joseph’s Providence bazaar, was won by Mrs.
Edward B. Smith, of Carcoar. Net profit of the
bazaar, £1550 Taree Benedicts gave a return
ball lately, with a view of luring some of the
bachelors into their ranks—The American Consul
forwarded £3013s. 8d., result of the Independence
Ball, to the National Shipwreck Relief Society
Net profits of last year’s St. Vincent’s Ball, £459.
We nave just heard it Last June an inter-
national marriage took place near New York—
namely, a son of the well-known English Conser-
vative leader. Sir Stafford Northcote, to Miss
Edith Fish, daughter of the American ex-Secretary
of State. Hooked The Cosmopolitan is a new
club, opened in Hunter-street, last week, with a
banquet. President, J. H. Hunt On July 19, the
Bachelors of Mudgee had a ball, which a fair
number attended. A few days ago, Mr. Justice
Molesworth, in Melbourne, heard the equity case
Johnson v. Nicholas, wherein the infant children
of the late Archibald Johnson, squatter, sought to
have his estate administered. His wife (who since
married Mr. Nicholas) had been left by his will a
life interest in very large property, and a daugh-
ter, one of the plaintiffs, £10,000. His Honor de-
cided the estate should be administered under
direction of the court, but declined to interfere
with the discretion allowed to the trustees in
management...Mr. A. G. Eager, five years manager
of Bank of N.S.W. at Oootamundra, removed to
Melbourne. Usual thing, void watch and eulogy....
Murrumburrah Bachelors’ Ball passed off in their
Assembly Hall, recently, to the music of violin and
piano, and some of the ladies’ dresses were un-
usually prime. A green satin, docked with silver,
and a blue with pearls, were especially so.. .Among
the novelties of suicide, certainly ranks the at-
tempt of a Gippsland selector, whose daughter
eloped with a local Apollo. The father felt so
“very too” at her marrying a youth whom he
considered below her in status, that he tried to
drown himself in a waterhole containing about
two feet of water. Unfortunately, he couldn’t do
it, so there’s just the same number of fools in the
worldas there were before....Mayor’s ball at Yass
soon..,.Nice ball at Newbridge, near Blayney, last
week On Wednesday, 8th August, Floral As-
sembly starts again at Pomona Gymnasium
started at Singleton — Mr. James Cochrane, of
Widgiewa Station, near Urana, gave a large ball
last Thursday, and visitors came “ pricking across
the plain” in all directions to it—The Sydney
Private Assembly Ball passed off very happily at
Needs’ on Friday night, and the room was quite
full. Possibly the dearth of dances at Govern-
ment House drives more visitors to Nithsdale
rooms than of yore. At any rate, they flock there,
and make the place very gay. With excellent
music, and a programme of nearly continual waltz-
ing, the hours passed till 1 a.m. very pleasantly.
On 35th July, Mr. John Chambers gave a
banquet at Adelaide to commemorate the 31st
Anniversary of planting the British flag in
North Australia. Six of those who crossed the
continent with M'Douall Stuart were present
The eldest daughter of Mr. H. White, of Havilah,
Mudgee, is shortly to be married to a son of the
Hon. G. H. Cox Last week Mr. H. White, of
Havilah, Mudgee, gave a grand ball and supper,
about 130 guests being present Miss Rhodes, the
£500.000 Maori-half-caste heiress, was married to
Mr. W. E. Moorhouse at St. Paul’s, Wellington, the
week before last. A dense throng assembled to
witness the ceremony, which was performed by
Bishop Hadfleld, assisted by Archdeacon Stock.
The ceremony took place at half-past two, Mr. W.
Moorhouse acting as “best man,” and Mr. Waring
Taylor, one of the trustees of the estate, gave the
bride away. Miss Moorhouse and Miss R. Moor-
house acted as bridesmaids — It has begun in
London and may reach us any day—the custom of
sitting down to all toasts, the “ Queen ” alone ex-
cepted. The other day, in London, the company
actually sat while drinking the health of the
Prince of Wales, who was present.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Victoria House Annual Ball Aug, 3
Sydney Bicycle Club Sports Aug. 4
Sydney Owl Club Hyginx (Tattersall’s
Hall) Aug, 8
St. Kllda College Sports... Aug. 8
Plain and Fancy Ball (Granville) Aug. 8
Bachelors’ Private Assembly (Nithsdale)—Aug. 10
Band wick Races Aug. 11
Comp. Ball to Mr. H. Giltinan (Oddfellows’
Hall). Aug. 15
Citizens’ Ball to the Mayor (Exhibition) — Aug. 18
Comp. Ball Mr. W. King (Oddfellows Hall). .Aug. 16
Petersham Owl Club Ball Aug. 17
Windsor Masonic Ball Aug. 33
Agricultural Society’s Show opens Aug. 34
St. Vincent’s Annual Ball Sept. 4
Why do Hop Bitters cure so much ? Because
they give good digestion, rich blood and healthy
action of ah the organs. Read.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Up the country long “ pars.” tell of a boy,
who got a bead up his nose, and a girl a fish-hook
in her leg. Successful operations were performed
by the local sawbones. Stirring places those to
live in According to the Kiama Independent,
a railway porter named Kearney was run over by
a dray, ana sustained some “abdomidable” bruises.
A Temora bank advanced £8 an oz. on a 350uz.
cake of gold. On being assayed the cake gave 60qz.
We were thinking of leaving for Temora, but the
people there appear to know quite enough al-
ready. . . The Massachusetts fishermen lost £250,000
by remaining at home so as to avoid Wiggins
storm. They are now looking for Wiggins.... .In
N.Z., the other day, a constable had a tight with a
big nigger. The latter secured his antagonist by
imbedding the wool-hook in his thigh, and dragged
him about until the by-standers interposed.... Mr.
Garrett.of Auckland, N.Z.. has killed a two-tooth
sheep, 22 months old, weighing 170 lb. net......
Priestly, who with Mrs. Hamilton, was tried not
long ago for the murder of the latter’s husband,
but acquitted, has announced a lecture in Auck-
land. One newspaper “hopes that rotten eggs
will bo at a premium ” should he appear... . Truant
inspectors up North have struck a grand idea for
ascertaining now many children are about the dis-
trict. One starts a Punch and Judy show, and the
other takes stock. Then they compare the result
with the school register. And when they want to
yard the negligent parents easily, they leave an
open cask of beer in the market square, and in
ten seconds’ time the whole township is at their
mercy Richard Thomas, navvy, Wistow (S.A.)
started to dry some dynamite on a shovel over a
kitchen fire last Wednesday. Any information re-
specting his present whereabouts will bo thank-
fully received by the man who owned the shovel.
....Thus a Wilcannia editor; “Wentworth has
three churches, three hotels, four clergymen, and
190 pianos. When the Wentworth people are not
at church, they are generally banging the 190
pianos. The town is then lively.” Thus the Went-
worth scribe, in reply: “Wilcannia has 190 pups.,
two clergymen, and one piano—and even that s a
public-house one.”.. .The Evening News recently
stated that Mr. Bromby’s Irish lecture was 4 most
instructive.” A little later on, Alfred tells us in a
leader that Bromby “ displayed the greatest ignor-
ance of his subject.” Only 149,428 gals, rum
were distilled in Queensland last year. This falling
off is, perhaps, in a measure due to the vigour
with which this useful industry is carried on in
George-street, Sydney.... In June last Dr. Moloney
treated 67 patients in the Melbourne Hospital, and
gave them 401oz. brandy, 74oz. wine, 60oz. gin, and
148oz. whisky. He heads the list as a stimulating
doctor....The Sandhurst mining managers have
resolved themselves Into a mutual protection
society. They have so often removed the lamb s
cuticle, that now, when the lamb begs for a little
fair play, they combine to protect themselves.
“Cheek” is no name for it—it’s downright in-
spiration Bonfires are burning in Walgett. The
P.M. has discovered that throwing dice or tossing
for drinks in a “pub” is not gambling—Even in
slaughtering rabbits you can’t get some men to
run straight. The S.A. Government finds that it is
being “got at” by paying for rabbits scalps,
as the creatures do not seem to miss them.
Think of the perverted ingenuity of men
who will go to the trouble of catching and
half-skinning a rabbit without killing it I....
The Queen Co.’s (Palmer River) last crushing; 214
oz. from 180 tons stone Mr. Alex. Stuart, sur-
veyor, son of the Rev. Dr. Stuart, of Dunedin,
poisoned himself in that city by taking cyanide of
Eotasslum— it is presumed accidentally—instead of
orax. Deceased was a surveyor, and was
about to start for New South Wales At
Ballarat assizes, Fralpont, who, after quarrel-
ling with one Childs about a woman, murdered
him with a pitchfork, was sentenced to death.
After sentence had been passed, the prisoner, ad-
dressing the Chief Justice, said: “ Well, your
Honor, I don’t think my soul has anything to
answer for. (Slight sensation.) I acted as I did in
self-defence, and I would do the same thing to-
morrow under similar circumstances.” Fraipont
thinks he will be reprieved; but there can be slight
hope of his escape from the gallows, after
the sentiments expressed by him at the bar
Diamonds recently found in Canterbury (N.Z.)
tested in England and proved O.K....Here’s a
“ New Way to Pay Old Debts.” When a Corpora-
tion up North finds itself in a tight place, the
Mayor applies to the Government for a sum of
money to be devoted to the construction of a
bridge. A few days ago, a raw alderman, on hear-
ing this motion, bobbed up and pointed out there
was nothing like a river or creek in all the district.
"Just you lie back there, sonny,” replied the
Mayor; “let’s get the subsidy for the bridge first,
and then we can ask for another to supply the
river 1 Bless yer’art, they'll never know.”....It
turns out now that the plasters of Henry Winter,
the Melbourne corn doctor, are not solvent—nor is
Henry A policeman has been garotted and
robbed in Melbourne. The thief stole his hand-
cuffs, and wears them.. .Dunedin beer contains an
undue prevalence of table salt; while Dunedin
brandy holds excessive quantities of tannin. These
liquors must curiously resemble Sydney beers and
brandies—the reports of Watt notwithstanding....
An imbecile who signs himself 44 Progress” suggests
to Gabrannt that New South Wales should Import
British pauper children with a view to training them
as servants—just as if a helot caste were needed....
44 Who comes hero ?'* 44 Drunken Grahamstown elec-
tors in a dray.” 44 Pass, drunken Grahamstown
electors in a dray—all swill I”... .Victorian Chamber
of Manufactures have condoned Tarbrush Woods’
dyspeptic (hie!) display at their annual dinner. He
resigned: they asked him to withdraw his resigna-
tion: he did so; and all is serene—Welcoming the
birth of a new literary venture (the Bowbad Free
Press), a contemporary harshly remarks: “The
reading matter at present is too much for the
money.” We have not slept a wink all night, try-
ing to cypher out what this means. .. Another new
Club In Sydney—The Cosmopolitan—,
If any man loves comfort, and has a little cash to
buy it, he
Should get into a cosy Club—a most select society:
While solitude and mutton cold serve the in/elix
uxor, he
May have his Club like Hercules, and revel there
in luxury.
There are now on the water, bound for More-
ton Bay, 957 immigrants. If Forbes was right, the
Brisbane army of street walkers is about to be re-
cruited largely. In Brisbane, they now call street
walkers 44 Archibald Forbeses.”
• • •
Dr. Belgrave makes the monstrous pro-
posal that the Agent-General should employ “ the
private detectives of London ” as machinery for
making inquisition into the antecedents of assisted
immigrants Yesterday, the new parcels poet
system came Into operation in England. 1 lb. par-
cel sent for 3d, up to 71b. weight for Is. Now then,
Mr. Trickett. tfaid a London evening paper re
the Brooklyn bridge disaster;—“Twelve corpses
were taken up, and seven more were not expected
to live.” Cholera has completely collated Cairo.
Khedival ministers panic-stricken Cetewayo
had great difficulty to get away after his
last brush with his Zulu frrecoucileables. He
got away at last, as far as the next world—
The Queen’s injury to her knee prevented her
opening the Fisheries Exhibition in person. A
lame excuse The cruellest announcement
ever made in a newspaper was this, from the
London Evening Standard of 22nd May:—
44 Notice.—In page 3 will be found our Mos-
cow correspondent’s account of the procee -
ings connected with the Czar’s Coronation, as well
as other telegrams having reference to the same
ceremonial. For to-day’s inquests, see also page
3.” Absitomen.
Plautus’s meaning is quite clear where he
says “ llle quern duduin dixeram.”
Here are free translations which we place
at the disposal of student youth“ Instrulxit
triplicem aciem,” “ He drew three aces “ Tlhurne
in gurgite mergis maraeaputbis terque,” “Soak
your head in the Tiber two or three times ”; “ Ergo
Iris devojat et tqpra.caput adatitit.” “Therefore
Iris flew down ana stood upon her head.’’
SMITH FIELD.— Experimentalists are often
confounded with fools. Those who fall to
distinguish between the two classes will find the
“ boss ” idiot in a man named Galton. Mr. Galton
is a merchant in Newcastle, possessed of a lot of
land at Smithfleld: and, following the example of
numbers of people who, possessing land in large
quantities, sell it in comparatively small ones, Mr.
Galton is about to dispose of what he calls a sub-
division,” by auction. But how does he propose
to set about it ? By getting Clint or Peerless to
paint flaming pictures m distemper and exhibiting
them in the G.P.O. passage between George and Pitt
streets ? By subsidizing the first-named artist to
caricature the leading men of the oolong—Parkes
dancing with delight at getting a corner allotment,
and Stuart deep in despair at being denied the
bliss of securing a lot with a right-of-way on one
Side and a reserve on the other; while Buchanan,
O’Connor, G. H. Reid, and Dlbbs are doing funny
business with the auctioneers? No! Mr. Galton
does none of these stereotyped things :
nor does he flosd the Sydney newspapers
with startling advertisements, nor get fulsome
paragraphs out of needy reporters, nor surfeit the
Sydney barbers with shaving papers containing
descriptions of his land, nor act in any way as his
predecessox-s have done. Ergo, Galton is a fool—
at least, so we think, and so will the world think,
too, because other land-sellers have done all these
things and fattened. Mr. Galton will not tempt
the Sydney market, nor woo the the nods of metro- '
politan earth-hungers; for he Intends to commis-
sion neither Batt nor Kodd nor Purves, nor Hardle
nor Gorman, nor Mills nor Pile nor Gilchrist—but
will court the fascinations of the hammer wielded
by a man named Greer. Mr. Joseph Creer is all
very well in his way—being the proprietor of a
theatre, a municipal magnate, and a man of ham-
merous inclinations generally; but his business lies
in Newcastle, and Smithfleld lies not Newcastle
way. Is, then, Galton a patriot or an ass—or are
the terms synonymous ? Or—perish the thought—
is this Galton in league with the steamboat pro-
prietors, and does he intend to crowd the boats
with folks yearning to secure land at Smith-
fleld or die ? But we give Galton up as an
enigma, leaving the Oth of August to prove
whether he be a mule or a Solon. Smithfleld, us
everybody knows, is a township a little off the
Southern line, three and a half miles from Parra-
matta. Mr. Creer says that if one tickles the soil
there with a hoe, it will chuckle and smile in
oranges and lemons already cased and booked for
the Sydney markets. The terms of sale are so
ludicrously favourable to the purchaser, that the
wonder is Galton’s friends do not institute a ile
lunatico inqairo, and have a good time on his
money. Smithfleld is no wild-cat Eden in a hope-
less slough, but an established township with, no
doubt, a mortgage on its Town Hall. As early as
’48, allotments in Smithfleld were submitted to com-
petition at the Bed Cow Inn, Parramatta. Owing
to its being near the scene of the new-fangled
scheme for supplying water to enable the poor
white trash of Sydney to wash themselves, Smith-
field prospers; and as the tide of population must
set towards its shores, Smithfleld must become one
of the outlets for the over crowded trade and
occupancy of Sydney; but if Mr. Galton and Mr.
Creer get the worth of the laud by selling it in
Newcastle, we shall get up a George-street auction
in Wiugecarribee. So mote it be. Since writing
the above, we learn that Mr. Galton has developed
further dangerous tendencies. He announces that
he will refund the passage money of those who go
from Sydney to Newcastle end purchase allotments
at Smithfleld from Mr. Creer on the 9th instant.
We shall be there, choke full of curiosity to see
the result of the Galtonic experiment.*
The Deniliquin races turned out a success
as regards the running, and the attendance—par-
ticularly of ladies—was good. The handicaps were
fair, and the finishes pretty close. In the big event,
Terminus, who once came nigh to having his
throat cut, win beaten bv Tantaliser. The favourite
for the hurdles, Black Prince, was beaten, and the
black prince who rode him proved himself to bo
the ablest man that ever took a favourite round a
hurdle, or upset a double. Deniliquin ought surely
to have a two days’ meeting. The trotting events
on the Saturday were dreadfully funny.
In re the Pope v. Parnell. The patriots
don’t like the action of the Holy See. They don’t
wholly see it.
The pious young man, with the fog-horn
voice and the earthquake mouth, who unex-
pectedly turned up opposite this office on Sunday
week, with seven other howling- salvation-belch-
ing saints, is requested to Inform us of the exact
time at which ho purposes passing next Sunday.


VALUABLE TRUTHS.
“ If you are suffering from poor health
‘or languishing on a bed of sickness,
* take cheer, for
Hop Bitters will cure you.
“ If you are simply ailing, if you feel
‘weak and dispirited, without clearly
‘knowing why,
Hop Bitters will Revive you.
“ If you are a Minister, and have over-
‘ taxed yourself with your pastoral
‘ duties, or a Mother worn out with care
‘ and work,
Hop Bitters will Restore yon.
“If you are a man of business or
‘labourer weakened by the strain of
‘ your every-day duties, or a man of let-
‘ tors, toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strenghten you.
“ If you are suffering from over eating
‘ordrinking, any indiscretion or dissi-
‘ nation, or are young and growing too
* fast, as is often the case,
Hop Bitters will relieve you.
“ If you are in the workshop, on the
* farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
* that your system needs clfeansing, tou-
‘ ing, or stimulating, without inttoxlcat-
‘ing
Hop Bitters is what you need.
“ If you are old, and your blood thin
* and impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
‘unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Hop Bitters will give you new Life
and Vigour.
“ HOP BITTERS is an elegant, heal-
‘ thy, and refreshing flavouring for sick-
‘ room drinks : impure water, etc., ren-
‘ dering them harmless, and sweetening
‘ the mouth, and cleansing the stomach.
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
HOP BITTERS
is an Elegant, Pleasant, and Refreshing Flavouring
for sick-room drinks and Impure Water, rendering
them harmless, sweetening the mouth, and cleans-
ing the stomach.
GRAHAM,
TAILOE,
531
Geokge St., Sydney.
Palace of Fashion
and Art.
“ The Apparel oft (proclaims the Nan.”
MR. J. GRAHAM has recently returned from
a Special
BUSINESS TOUR
in the United States and Europe (London, Paris,
Berlin, &o.), and has arranged for the introduction
per each Mail Steamer of the
Newest, Costliest, and Most Fashionable
CLOTHING MATERIAL,
simultaneously with their introduction by the
fashionable Houses of London and Paris, &c.
CLOTHING is made up at the shortest notice by
the best talent in Australia and London, and exact
reproductions of London and Paris Fashions in
Art and Material guaranteed.
Ballroom and Bridal Outfits, and Evening Dress
Suits, in a style unequalled or unsurpassed.
Mr. J. Graham speaks through the Press to the
gentlemen in the moat distant parts of the interior.
Prompt attention and Advice given in matters ot
Dress, Style, &c., with instructions for measure-
ment, free of cost, and the best and most satisfac-
tory results guaranteed.
For the protection of the Public, the name
GRAHAM and the figures 531 are of mammoth
dimensions—the largest on any establishment in
all Australia.
t 1 #' The Fashionable World of Australia and
the great middle class of the cities and towns as
well, are requested to continually note the an-
nouncements in this column, from
J. GRAHAM, Tailor,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
DR. MARSOT8 MW WORM.
A valuable book, describing 1 how suffer-
ers from Nervous and Physical Debility,
Mental Decay and all disorders result-
ing from Excesses, Indiscretions or
Overwork, are permanently Cured
WITHOUT STOMACH MEDICATION.
Weak, nervous 3c Impotent Men restored te
VIOOE, HEALTH AND MANHOOD.
Consultation and Book free. Address—
MAES I ON SEMMTCo., 359 George SL
synyr-py
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION,
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT, WEAK-
NESS, .
PRICE.. 2s. 6d.
Prepared by A. G. KBBBLBWHITE, Chemist, fee.
43 ERSKINE STREET.
Sold by W. H. SOUL, and all Chemists.
EVERY
MAN
SHOULD
READ
Personal — continued from pane 7,
There is a gorilla in the Australian Museum
which was shot hy Paul du Chaillu. The tine speci-
men in the Melbourne Museum was also shot by
Paul, who, wo rend, seems to bronze but not to
grow grey or wrinkled with age. He is as active
and wiry as when, in 1850, he returned from Africa,
and told, in his limited English but very voluble
French, to Charles Nordhotf, then editor of Ham-
per's Magazine, his adventures in gorilla-hunting.
These statements, under Nordhoffs hands, grew
Into the popular volume, “ Explorations and Ad-
ventures in Equatorial Africa,” It is a legend of
Franklin-square th it Hu Chaillu’s diary of his
adventures was of the most meagre sort. The
account of his firs adventure with a gorilla was
given, under its appropriate date, in the words
“Shot my first gorilla.” Nordhuff, coming across
this record, had Du Chaillu tell him all the par-
ticulars, going over the story several times, adding
to it after preparing the first draft, until it grew
Into the long and exciting chapter which forms
one of the chief attractions of he volume named.
In the same way Du Chaillu has had assistance from
Henry M. Aldon, thb~l»resent editor of Harper's
Monthly.
We ad know how Titian used to sketch his
senators. Gravity and reverence were conspicuous
In every curve of the bearded jaw. Sir Joshua
Reynolds also had to limn incarnated dignity his
portraits being frozen into the severely Judicial
attiiude. Rut our Art Lectures arc* p educing a
different type of artist, and the different type of
artist is producing a different type of judicial ex-
Eression. Many are familiar with the likeness of
ir Charles Sladen. Who more petrified? who
more fit to play chief mourner at a funeral ? who
more lit to personify a donkey on a monument,
waiting for thistles to grow? Yet there he is in
Collins-street, Melbourne, now, fresh from the
hands of Miss Eleanor Hell! Charles, Charles, had
you been sitting for Mr. Bell, you would never
have looked thus. There is a merry twinkle in
that eye which speaks of thirty years ago as plainly
as your tongue speaks after the sixth. The paint-
ing is life-sized, and is highly creditable to Miss
Eleanor. But society ought to be guarded against
this method of disturbing old beliefs. From the
Angering of an artist, Sir Charles comes forth a
man of irreproachable reserve, from whoso lips
only words of solemn counsel could fall, in whose
mind only thoughts of solemn earnestness could
dwell; but, from the fingering of an artiste, he
comes forth as you see him in Collins-street, a gay
dog-a devil-may-care dog—a rakish old boy—a
brilliant, sparkish old antediluvian—quite a kick-
ing corpse—altogether a three-sheets-in-the-wind
fossil. Miss Eleanor, Miss Eleanor I
A country paper indulges in a good deal of
“gush ” over a golden wedding held in the remote
hamlet where It picks up a precarious Jiving. Why,
it was only the other day that a diamond wedding
came off in Sandhurst. For seventy-five years
Mr. and Mrs. Lewis have looked at life through the
same bedroom-window In his case, marriage has
been a singularly slow poison. What odd thoughts
suggest themselves when one meets, walking
airily about the streets or enjoying a glass of wine
and chaffing the bar-girls, a man whose birth cer-
tificate is dated 17841 wh.r, Napoleon and Welling-
ton were but 15 years old; American Independence
had just been achieved; prisoners still rotted in
the Bastille; “lovely court ladies in powder with
lappets and long satin tails" still wrangled like
cocottes for the honour of changing poor Antoi-
nette’s linen! The material for the construction
of all the great men who have startled the world in
our day—the Darwins, Drapers, Haeckels, Edlsons
John Davieses, and M‘Colls— had not been collected
from air, earth, and water until long years after
young Lewis first saw light that summer morning
in London, and observed his parent fitting a Gentile
with a coat like a sentry-box—described by the
old man as a “ bootiful fit.” The Sandhurst Nestor
wasplaying “knuckle-down” before Tom Carlyle
started on his strange, wayward, dyspeptic career.
But Carlyle is gone and Lewis remains—not in
decay, not a mere antique, but full of sausages and
scrip. But our remembrance of this hale old gentle-
man is apt to make us run on like a new barrow
with the wheels greased. May he see his hundredth
wedding day 1
Subscriptions towards that monument to
be erected in Mantua to the memory of poor old
Virgil appear to be coming in very slowly in Vic-
toria. Some time ago the A rods notified that a
certain member of its litei ary staff was prepared
to receive donations for that purpose. He is still
prepared to receive them. But, notwithstanding a
very elegant paragraph that accompanied the
notification, there seems to be, in Melbourne at all
events, groat confusion of thought as to what the
object in hand really Is. In fact, the confusion is
said to be wholly traceable to that elegant para-
graph. It frightened those who didn’t know any-
thing of Virgil, and was an Irreverent burlesque to
those who did. Think of incorporating in an appeal
to the pockets of Victorians two verses out of a
Latin primer I A policeman in Colllngwood
brought up a man for repeating the verses In the
public street a fortnight ago, and charged him
with indulging in obscene language. Pronounced
as the policeman pronounced the words, and os he
swore the culpr't pronounced them, they gave the
Bench some trouble. After deliberation, however,
it was decided that they were not obscene, but
profane and highly improper in a public place. But
that was not the only misadventure. The Orange
Lodge, No, 90, laying hold of another part of the
paragraph protested against being asked to sub-
scr'bo money to a Roman. They referred to Virgil
as the thin edge of the wedge, and renewed their
vows against the Pope and wooden shoes. Still
another difficulty was encountered in the Minis-
terial head of the Protectionist party. As a party,
he urged them to have nothing to do with sending
money out of the colony for monumental pur-
poses, as it would be all wanted by the party pre-
sently to build one grand monument, a la Tower
of Babel, up which he could climb, laughing at all
who once trusted him below. But the thing that
killed the Virgil monument, that made some laugh
and others weep, was that part of the paragraph
in which it was announced that this certain “ mem-
ber of our literary staff ” was appointed to receive
the subscriptions. O tempore! O mores! Has it
come to this, that, in the brilliant light of the nine-
teenth century, two thousand years after the
stately bard of Mantua has gone to rest, the initia-
tive in a rich new world in building a monument
to commemorate his fame is to be taken by a
Jiarty named—well, it is not even Jones, neither is
t Brown; something worse, far worse, than these;
no, not Henderson or Doherty, but—alas, alas!—
Smith ?
The dullness of dunces has smitten you, Bard,
From time to time, as the centuries flew;
But the worst of them never could smite so hard
As a Smith with his hat in his hand for you.
The Honorable John Colton is aim mg the
keystones of Adelaide. A shrewd saddler, a staunch
Wesleyan, he long ago found that there is nothing
like leather combine I with regular chapel-going.
Prospering, his business became wholesale, then
varied; and now the firm of which ho is at date but
a sleeping partner, possess one of the hugest and
ugliest warehouses m the place. John tor decades
carried the taint of his illiter te bigotry and ag-
gressive holiness into every transaction, political
or commercial, with which he was connected.
When Commissioner of Public Works, he once
procured the resignation of a Civil servant who
had presumed to caricature him.andquiie recently
dismissed a junior partner because that unfortu-
nate dared to visit the races two or three days in
succession. That partner said that it a person
wanted to hear the Honorable John swear badly,
it was only necessary to introduce him to a book-
maker, and cart him, under pretence of a visit to
the Destitute Asylum to the Adelaide Racecourse.
When a drayman in Colton’s employ drew a £1000
Miller’s sweep, the crowd at Garten's (Melb.), being
mostly Ade aide men, roared “Cdton will sack
him!" As a matter of fact, Colton did nothing of
the sort, and was really able to suffer the man’s
good fortune without perpetrating so Tress an
absurdity. John Is thawing now-a-days, md ac-
quiring polish, but a man of his stamp cannot
throw off the effects of early disabilities by merely
becoming wealthy. Colton could neither be bought
nor sold; and the pity is that ho is not a liberal-
minded, educated gentleman. Yet, in private,
the Honorable John, with his worthy wif©, is
always ready to help the deserving unfortunate.
There may be a little too much of the poor-house
tone in many things the couple do, but it recently
came out that, when a little while back, a respect-
able young woman from Melbourne, engaged by a
rascally Adelaide man, declined that blackguaid's
advances, and was sent packing without a cent of
salary, the cabman who shifted her box, noticing
her obvious trouble, and learning that she knew
not a soul in Adelaide, and had not a shilling be-
yond the one due to him, at once replied cheer-
fully : “ Then you needn’t worry. Miss—-go to the
Honorable John Colton, up at his office in Way-
mouth-street, or to his missis at Hockney, and
either on ’em ’ll make it, all right for you.” Need-
less to say, the poor girl acted on the cabman’s
advice. Colton made enquiries; found he--story
true; went down to that bad lot, her employer;
obtained the girl’s money; lent or gave her more,
and S' nt her back to her friends. Now, we ortho-
doxedly hold that this kind of thing will waft the
Honourable John and his missis through “the
gates ajar”—if they so ambition—rather than go-
ing to ch .’pel and holding forth at class meetings.
Anyhow, the persons referred to have our best
wishes for continuous growth out of or ed-tram
mels and unpopularity.
Here is a long paragraph, about various
things. What was whispered in Melbourne before
the marriage is now openly stated in London.
Thus, the London correspondent of the 8. M.
Her vld: “ Loi d Charles Scott’s father, the Duke
of Uuccleuch, is said to be exceedingly indignant
at his sou’s choice. According to current report,
neithor Lord Charles nor his wife will (ind a cor-
di il welcome at the old man's hands.” Well, of
course the blue blood of an ancient Tory Duke
naturally boils over at first go off at an alliance
with an Australian cattle and sheep auctioneer;
but time will make all things right, for dukes are
hut mortals after all. The uallant Commodore
was o have been Lord Charles’s chief supporter
on the happy occasion; but hearing of the brewing
storm at home, it is alleged, he cleverly managed
to miss the boat from Hobart to Melbourne.
And, talking of Commodores, when lieauchamp
Seymour (now Lord Alcester, of Egyptian fame)
was in command here, he on one occasion, while
presiding In the Water Police Court at Wllliams-
town, in Victoria, said: “I shalladjour i the Court
at one o’clock; I have an engagement with a lady."
“And so have I,” exclaimed another Royal Jack
Tar, also on the bench. “ But not with the same
lady, I hope ?" quoth the Commodore, in reply.
Alas! it was. He had expected a Ute-h-tite lunch:
she had invited a party. Seymour, Standish, and
Colonel Leslie used to do the block together almost
<?very afternoon. It was soon after Standish had
been promoted from a Bendigo Wardenship to
the Chief-Commissionershipof Police, and recalled
a circumstance connected with the appointment.
It was a dead heat between himself and Major
Wallace, then Sheriff of Ballarat. The latter was
backed by the Governor, Sir Henry Barkly;
the former by the Premier, Mr O’Shanassy, and
won. Ho was congratulated by a Wallaceite on
the fact that he was a co-religionist of the Premier.
Now, Standish was proud of being an old Catholic,
but he did not like the way this was put, and
replied: “Yet: but, thank God, I am not an Irish
Papist.” Not many hours elapsed before the new
Commissioner was called upon for an explanation
by the Premier. Equal to the occasion, he indig-
nantly protested that it was a malicious invention
of his disappointed and enraged opponents! And
what a time that was for poor old “J.O’sj” It
was his first innings as Premier, and his fellow-
countrymen were determine 1 to make hay while
the sun shone. Many devices were resorted to for
the purpose of evading them, but with little suc-
cess. On one occasion he had quietly slipped down
by a back stairs to the yard: he was speedily sur-
rounded in his temporary retirement by about 40
at least, and had to make his escape, partially
dressed, and shouting as he ran: “ There are no
vacancies in the foot-police.”
Henry Patmore, a clever writer, son of
Coventry Patmore, is dead. By the way, Gurney
Patmore, Coventry’s brother, used to edit a paper
at Portland, Victoria ..It is reported from High-
bury, that the pistol, boots, and other relics of poor
Walter Clarke have been found in the Mitcnell,
about 60 miles from Messsrs. Bostock's station, by
a party of native police under Sub-Inspector
Brooke. A native prisoner reported that the poor
fellow was murdered near the Mitchell, and his
body thrown into a water hole, and the black boy,
who was at some distance fishing, was afterwards
murdered and his body thrown into the river—
The Hobart Mercury reports the death of Mr.
George Arnold, formerly the “ Grand Good Tem-
plar ” (whatever that may be) of Tasmania. “ For
.33 years ho drank nothing but water, and even re-
fused a cup of tea or coffee.” Which reminds one
of the reformed drunkard, who declared from a
public platform that he would not drink the milk
of a cow if he thought it had been fed with brewers
grains Sir Arthur Gordon writing a book on
the habits of the Fijians. A work on Gordon’s
own habits would take....“Old heads, even if
wooden,” says big Harry M’Quade, “ are better
than many voung ones.” A foolish truism uttered
possibly to keep the “governor ” in good humour.
. .Mr. W. H. Gotten, founder of t.ie Otago Wit-
ness and the Otago Daily Times, Is dead ...
Sydney Taiwhanga, a kind of N.Z. Henderson
African us, means to go home again as an “ Am-
bassador, ’ and has been stumping the Napier
district for funds. Mrs. Taiwhanga, whom her
husband left without money last time, threatens
to stump Sydney.... George Du mai n, a miner,: g ;d
66, who, it is said, was the first to erect the Calii.ir-
nian pump in Australia, blew out his brains at
Return Creek on 19th June. He had for nine
months been prospecting a claim which turned
out a duffer. This, and a complaint from which
he had suffered for 30 years, led to the rash act ...
On dlt that Professor Pearson is likely to renounce
Victorian politics, &c., for a Cambridge history
lectureship or professorship Are Katera, a
Waikato chief, has sought the benefit of the New
Zealand bankruptcy laws ... Not before it was high
time. We have always set our faces firmly against
monopolies, whether of cheek or children. It is,
therefore, reassuring to find that the monopoly
in babies, so long enjoyed by the Herald staff, has
at last been up-ended by a high official on the
Nooze, whose wife presented him, a few days ago,
with a brace of dimpled infants.
♦ * *
The Duke and Duchess of Teok seem to
find their income of six thousand pounds a year
rather small. Their debts are said to be already
considerably over £50,000, and the duchess objects
to retire to the quiet and secluded retreat in Ger-
many, which the Duke of Cambridge has placed at
their disposal, and where it would be rather diffi-
cult to spend the whole of their income—Hen-
niker Heaton’s friend, Lord Dufferin, started la
life as a simple Irish baron, but obtained a peerage
of the United Kingdom at the age of 33. Since
1*50, he has received no less than 17 distinct ap-
pointments or titles—more than one every other
year. This in because he is a favourite of the
Queen. And, as Henniker is also a favourite of
the Queen, it is hard to say how many titles a year
he U got—when once he makes a fair start.. . Lord
Kokeby, just deceased, was the last surviving
Guardsman who had served in the brigade at
Quatre Bras and Waterloo, and the last of those
British officers who were present at the Duchess of
Richmond’s historic ball at Brussels on the night
of June 15,1815, when he listened to the sounds of
revelry by night, and danced in company with
Charles O Malley, the Irish dragoon, Prvd Power
and his dark-eyed seuora, George Osborn, Captain
Dubbin, and the ever fascinating Mrs. Rawdon
Crawley. Lord Rokeby, in those days Ensign
Henry Montague, the junior officer of his regi-
ment, was also the last survivor of the British
officers who were present at the defence of Hou-
gomont, and had many tales to tell of that famous
episode of the eighteenth of June, when the Cold-
streams and Third Life Guards suffered so heavily,
the latter losing no less than thirteen of its officers.
— The Duke of Marlborough is gradually gutting
Blenheim. H.s Limoges enamels are now coming
under the hammer Some time ago, Mr. Labou-
chere published an article in Truth, in which
grave accusa ions were made against the Duke of
Vallambrosa. The Marquis of Mores, the duke’s
son, hearing of the attack upon his father, and of
the subsequent legal proceedings, at once cabled a
challenge to Mr. Labouchere, requesting his pre-
sence in Paris upon a certain day. If he should
fail to be there, the Marquis added that he would
cross the “silver streak’’ and publicly cowhide
Mr. Labouchere in London. A lot of people have
tried to cowhide Labouchere, but he has never
been whipped yet.
AT MOSCOW, AFTER TELE CORONATION.
“ Well, now it’s all over, I may confess I was instructed to keep an eye on you.”
“ And I had strict orders to blow your brains out if you made a single suspicious
movement.”


Abraham’s Pills
rDANDELION),
(DANDELION),
THE GREAi’ LIVER REMEDY,
3 TXT« oil anfPnr
or- le * from fulfilling their functions,
other or?*™ u firing the above remedy, i
tbe Jt V 1unfrs brato, and stomach will umte
Jrtcefulcho’ms.
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
in vis-orator. If your vital forces are
The true W' » ha ve a feeling- of general lassi-
depressea, u 4 r a presentiment of coming
tude and wjmJOwbb, h _ work. To
* uneouaT to ite work To
digaster, yo^ se symi)toms there is no remedy so
°Vro and certain as
8UreM abbaham-s PILLS,
— _po 11 \r due TO H uisuruwou 11 V CJA. wv vu
organ inordtrand health returns as if by magic.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
f here are Imitations, ask for ABRAHAM’S
_M q“ age that each box, by whomsoever sold,
inventor’s name and trade mark. The
Laborat^y. 4 Geor|fe street, Sydney.
MniMEY LOANS 0 RANTED at moderate inte-
rest on Furniture (without possession),
. T>A n <ic nortifleates. Shares,
±lho Ronds" Certiftcii'tes,' Shares, or other Seeu-
payable to suit convenience.
Kr, Deduction made from amount Required,
hich will be paid in f uU within twelve hours of
which --
application
wflNT DB PIETE CENTRAL LOAN OFFICE,
m 98 Castlbeaqh Street,
One door South of King Street.
W
ORKING CLASSES,
GENERATE YOUR OWN GAS.
t0 KEELY AND CO.,
71 Goulburn-street, Sydney.
rn Ir 'had Cl c*argc of the lighting of the hall and
dinner rooms at the Hay Demonstration, and the
?iSi?ing of Croydon Station. He undertakes to
his customers in three minutes the mode of
liberal discount wil I be given to storekeepers
nn remittances per orders, and goods forwarded
with quick despatch. Orders and remittances to
be sent to the above address. No orders attended
without remittance,
10 w LIST OF PRICES:
4 Light Gasalier 70s
3 do do
3 do do
Wall bracket lamp, bum 16 hours,
do do 9 do .
Table lamps, 2 branch
do 1 do
Brass Brackets ..
All Globes and Fittings
Fluid, in cases, 8 gal .
1 gal. fluid gives a light equal to 12s worth kero-
sene. Instructions as to the mode of lighting sent
to clients with despatch of goods.
Goods sent to all pai ts of the Colonies.
50s
&5s to 45s
17s 6d
15s
60s
45s
40s
5s extra
2s 6d per gal.
EVERY DESCRIPTION OF FISHING TACKLE,
Wholesale and Retail.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE STREET.
Y. E. ANGLE’S
(Late of 31 Market-street),
Fashionable Tailoring Establishment
636 GEORGE STREET,
Brickfield Hill.
A large and well-assorted stock of Tweeds and
Coatings, direct from the manu facturers, always
on hand.
All Garments Cut in the most Fashionable Styles.
PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
Note the Address-
636 George St., Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY.
ERNEST CARTER,
Wardell Saw and Planing Mills,
RICHMOND RIVER.
All Timber is thoroughly seasoned before it
leaves these Mills, and is very light for carriage
up-country, and fit for immediate use.
PINE, CEDAR, BEECH, FLOORING, LINING.
Mouldings, Architraves. The Trade only Supplied.
A. GORMAN,
Late of the Telegraph Hotel, Inverell,
HAS OPENED THE
“ Claren.d.on.,’
Corner of ELIZABETH & PARK Streets,
And which he intends to keep as a first-class Hotel,
A. G.
hopes, by strict attention to Business,
V18ITOI
gain a share of their PATRONAGE
will find this surpasses most of the leadine
HOTELS for ACCOMODATION and every COST
VENIENCE ; and, as it overlooks HYDE PARK, ii
must necessarily be WELL VENTILATED.
SUITES of ROOMS for FAMILIES,
as per agreement.
HOT and COLD WATER BATHS.
PORTER in Attendance Day and Night.
■*J£i5,S°£ necessar y to mention the quality of the
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, &o. &c„ as he is, aud al-
ways has been, noted throughout the COLONIES
tor selling nothing but the very best.
BULL & ADRIAN,
Merchant Tailors,
n
so
SAY
ALL
OF
US
470 Cteorgw-street, opposite the Markets,
SYDNEY.
PAPERHANGING S!
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSERY PAPERS.
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, &C.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwick,
381 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints; Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &c.
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE
COFFEE PALACE,
231 GEORGE STREET NORTH.
JOHN JOHNSON, Proprietor.
HAVING opened the above, the Proprietor has
supplied a want long felt in Sydney. The
first floor contains spacious Ladies and Gentle-
men’s Dining and Drawing Rooms, also Suites and
Single Bedrooms (viz., 45 bedrooms), will be open
shortly. A trial solicited.
CALL AND INSPECT.
THOMAS MUNRO,
HERALDIC ARTIST AND ENGRAVER,
PLAIN AND FANCY STATIONER,
10 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
A Large and varied assortment of Letter Books,
Account Books, and all office requisites. Purses,
Albums, Plush Bags, and Reticules; Artists’ Mate-
rials, Photo, and Picture Frames, Illuminated
Scripture and other texts. Birthday, Condolence,
and Memorial Cards.
Agent for August Huenerbein for Pianos, Or-
gans, and Music. The Engraving workshop being
under my own management, I feel confident in
suiting the public taste.
E WOLFF AND SON,
• Manufacturers of
Black Lead Pencils, Drawing Chalks, Crayons,
Artists’ Materials, and Stationers’ Sundries.
Makers, by appointment, to Her Majesty’s Govern-
ment and the Bank of England.
Office and Warehouse: 55 Great Queen-street,
Lincoln’s Inn Fields, W.C, Factory: Falcon Pencil
Works, Battersea, London, S.W. A full set of
samples can be seen, and further particulars ob-
tained, on application to
E. B. WOLFF (Sole Agent for N.S.W.), care of
Messrs. Feldheim, Gotthelf and Co., 30 Hunter-
street, Sydney.
S
ECURE A LOT AT SPRINGSIDB]
£1 DEPOSIT, £1 PER MONTH.
FORTUNATUS FINANCIAL, LAND, AND
INVESTMENT COMPANY,
S3F” 3 17 PITT STREET,
Near Temperance Hall.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
WIRE WORKERS,
WISH to call your attention to WIRE GOODS
we make and have in stock as under :—
FLOWER STANDS, for holding flowers in pots,
made of iron and wire, handsomely framed and
bronzed, suitable for rooms, halls, balconies, ver-
andahs, and conservatories. Also, WIRE FERN
BASKETS, all sizes and prices.
SIEVES and SCREENS, for screening lime,
gravel, coal, &c., all meshes, from 1 hole to 100
oles to the squares inch.
WIRE LATTICE-WORK, for protection of win-
dows from breakage caused by hail-storms or boys’
throwing stones. Also, WIRE NETTING, all sizes,
from 13 In. to 73 in. wide.
CAGES of every description, for canaries and
parrots, singly or in nests, suitable for store-
keepers.
And every description of WIRE WORK made on
the premises.
E A S T W A Y, BR OTHERS,
413 GEORGE-STREET.
t3T” Illustrated Catalogues on application.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
IP your Chemist or Grocer cannot or will not
„ ,y ou with the “ PAINLESS CORN
RELIEVER, write direct to the Registered Pro-
prietor, who will forward a bottle to all parts of
Australasia, Post Free, for 2s. 6d.
Address:—JOHN CLOWES,
One Mile Creek, Gympie.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
FOWLER’S POTTERY and
BRICKWORKS,
CAMPEBDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
T
HE FEDERAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA
(Limited)
Incorporated under Act of Parliament.
CAPITAL, £1000,000 ; SUBSCRIBED, £665,000.
Directors *
_ The Hon. W. A. Brodribb, M.L.C., Chairman.
W. H. Eldred, Esq., J.P, I F. T. Humphery, Esq.,
Robert Hudson, Esq. M.P.
I J. Y. Mills, Esq., J.P.
Manager ; F. 8. Macdermott.
Accountant: John Docker.
Solicitors : Messrs. Robertson, Fisher, and Ralfe.
Temporary Banking: House, 357 George-street,
North, with branch at the Haymarket.
Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies
and in Europe.
Highest rates of Interest given on Deposits, and
all usual Banking business transacted without
delay to customers.
F. S. MACDERMOTT, Manager.
IV. H. Ariell and Co.’s Agencies.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, Canter-
bury, Normanby, and Christmas Family Cakes,
Plum Puddings, Mincemeat, Self-raising
A*.rated Flour, Infant’s Food, Treacle and
Golden Syrup.
EXCELSIOR MILLS. —Superior Victorian Oat-
meal and Pearl Barley.
DILLON & prize assorted Confec-
tionery.
J' KITCHEN & SONS, No. 1 Mottled and Toilet
J.F.M KENZIE & CO.’S Coffee, Mustard, Cocoa,
Tea, in and lib. packets ; dressed Rice,
and Patent Groats.
HUNT & CO.’S Prize Baking Powders, Adelaide
Jams' Paper Bags, &c.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
Coolalta Wine, Bodega,
MORT’S PASSAGE, back of Messrs. W. H.
Paling and Co.’s.
Choicest Wines, by the glass or bottle, may be had
at the Bodega. Hot Spioed Wines during Winter.
Open from 9 a.m. till 6 p.m.
DANCING.— Prof. WEST'S Classes. — cnvaie
Lessons, Monday and Thursday mornings;
afternoon classes, Thursdays. Evening: Beginners,
Mondays, 8 p.m.; Thursdays, 7.30 p.m.; Advanced,
8.30 p.m., at Tattersall’s New Hall, Hunter-street.
Second terra now commencing. During present
school holidays there will be time for private
lessons in new waltz, &c. 261 Elizabeth-street.
I3T The Dancing Academy being the largest in
Sydney, there are now vacancies, quarter dating
from entrance.
THE AUSTRALIAN
Diamond Drill Company,
CONTRACTS will be undertaken by the above
Company to bore any sized holes, vertical qy
horizontal, up to
3 INCHES, OR LARGER IF REQUIRED,
to any depth, at a reduction of 35 PERCENT,
BELOW ANY PREVIOUS CHARGE.
The Company, in all cases, will find their owq
fuel and water for drilling: purposes, and will make
no charge for loss of diamonds or wear and tear oq
plant, and will also provide workmen engineers, &c.
The new duplex barrel, Introduced into the
colony by Mr. J. Coghlan, will be used free of
charge to persons searching for minerals.
Mr. Coglan has every confidence, from his prac-
tical knowledge of the Diamond Drill, that he wii|
be able to give genemi satisfaction, as well as quick
despatch to all orders addressed to the
Temporary Offices, 311 Goorge-street.
JOHN COGHLAN.
General Manager, pro. tem.
Singer’s Sewing Machines,
TURNER & CO.
Are the Recognised Agents of the
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS:
2s. 6d. per week—3s. 6d. per week—3s. 6d. per week.
And no interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE “SINGER,'
TURNER & COMPANY,
353 George-street.
THE ONLY “SINGER.”
Turner and Company,
578 GEORGE STREET.
I
I701 R TAILOR S !I70
na
—
W VISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
FOB
CHEAPNESS, FIT, AND WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to anj
part of the Colony.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 Park Street,
IMPORTERS
of
PIANOS,
by every make?
of renown, from
£35 and up*
wards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
Pianos! Pianos! Pianos!
FREE TRADE and NO MONOPOLY.
Live and Let Live, these are Our Mottoes.
It is a well-known fact that the Foundations o
Colossal Fortunes have been established upon the
Profits arising from the SALE OF PIANOS in this
City during the past Twenty Years by those
having little or no knowledge of the Construction
and Details of the Pianoforte. While giving the
Public the benefit of our Mr. Young’s 35 years’
personal practical experience (5 years in John
Broadwood and Sons, London, and 20 in N.S.W.),
we will, at the same time, be satisfied with a fair
percentage on the Co-operative Principle, sharing
-he Profits with our Customers. Wo will sell from
25 per cent, less than the same class of Instrument
can be Purchased at any Music Shop in Sydney,
and we will offer nothing- for Sale we cannot
{guarantee. American Organs at proportionately
ow prices. Also a Large Stock of Kohn’s Cele-
brated Austrian Furniture, a single article of
which we are selling at Wholesale Prices.
Come and See Our LITTLE BEAUTIES in Wal-
nut and Full Iron Frame, at £35 cash, Eleswhere
£10 more, or under a Liberal Time Payment Sys-
tem.
George E. Young and Co.,
1ST PITT STREET,
South of Royal Arcade.
B
RAU3VS WALTHAM WATCHE
TOOK FIRST PRIZE
And all the Gold Medals at every Exhibition.
MADE ESPECIALLY FOR
B. BRAUN,
Watchmaker, Jeweller, & Optician
376 GEORGE STREET,
Near the Post Office.
iThe Largest Stock of Waltham Watches in Sydne
500 to select from.
Silver Walthams from £3 to £13
Gold Walthams from £8 to £45.
Warranted from two to seven years.
“ Only at B. BRAUN, 378 George Street
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON .-The
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; -will soon be the loading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOrFNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
THE HARWOOD
Fibre Chair Seating,
Possessing all the qualities of a perfect seat. viz. :
Strength, Durability, Ease, Beauty, Cleanliness
and Cheapness.
THIS CHAIR SEAT is made from the strongest
known fibres and a perfectly waterproof
cement, and after fifteen years’ constant use, we
can speak positively as to its merits. It cannot
split or check, neither will exposure to sun or rain
affect it.
Awarded Gold Medal at the late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
For RE-SEATING it is unrivalled. In every
house, store and office, are chairs with seats broken.
Any person can re-seat and make as good as new a
chair that is otherwise worthless, at a very trifling
expense.
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE FOR HOME USE,
Agents Wanted in Every District.
From £3 to £5 a week can be made by any smart
man or boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
83 CLARENCE STREET.
T
O BE DISPOSED OF BY SUB-
SCRIPTION
on the
ART UNION PRINCIPLE,
flK non Pounds worth of fiK H/lfi
ZilUfUUU Freehold Properties. JjlO,UUU
In 15,000 Shares of £1 Each
1st Prize, £8000—Hardwicke Estate, Yass, N.S.W.,
3700 Acres.
3nd Prize, £3000, Farm, 800 Acres, near Gunning,
N.S.W,
3rd Prize, £3000, “St. Kilda House,” Goulburn, 15
Rooms (insured £1000).
4th Prize, £800, “ Two-storied House ” in Clifford-
street, Goulburn.
5th Prize, £400
Oth Prize, £150
7th Prize, £130
8th Prize, £130
9th Prize, £85
10th Prize, £75
11th Prize, £75
13th Prize, £75
13th Prize, £75
14th Prize, £35
15th Prize £25
16th Prize £35
The following gentlemen have consented to act as
i Committee
J. T. GANNON Esq., M.L.A., Goulburn.
JOHN BADGERY, Esq., Sutton Forest.
A. M. BETTS, Esq., Solicitor, Goulburn.
R. C. COOPER, Esq., Willeroo, Lake George.
JOHN DAVIDSON, Esq., Solicitor, Goulburn.
S. EMANUEL, Esq., J.P., Goulburn.
S. MEYERT, Esq., J.P., Goulburn.
The DRAWING will take place in the Mechanics’
Institute, Goulburn, in the presence of the Com-
mittee, on 30th August next, and will be open to
the Shareholders. H
For particulars see Prospectus, which may be
had upon application to J. J. ROBERTS. Secre-
tary, Box 33, Post-office, Goulburn. Local Agents
will be appointed in most of the principal Towns of
N.S.W.
Send Stamp for Prospectus.


Prepared according to the directions p ro f.
E. N. Horsford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED FOR
DYSPEPSIA, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA, WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY, &C.
No Danger can Attend its Use.
Great Relief by Its Use.
WINSLOW LEWIS, M.D.. of Boston, the distin-
guisbed and popular physician, said:
“ Having in my own person experienced those
ills for which the Acid Phosphate is prescribed, r
having found great relief and alleviation bv its
use, most cheerfully attest my appreciation of it 8
excellence.”
Indigestion and Bladder and Kidney
Troubles.
Portland, Me., Oct. 2nd, 1880.
Horsford’s Acid Phosphate has become a favour-
ite remedy in my practice. When completely tired
out by prolonged wakefulness and overwork, it is
| of the greatest value to me. I have given it in
certain forms of dyspepsia, in all cases of nervous
exhaustion from overwork, in certain affections of
the bladder and kidneys, and have always been
satisfied with the results. I prescribe it more and
more as I become better acquainted with its pro-
perties. Of all the samples of medicine sent me
during the past dozen years, Horsford’s AcidPhos-
phate is the only one I have ever found which has
become a necessity in my own household. Per-
haps I should hardly have been willing’ to write my
impressions of the Acid Phosphate if I had not
in my own person experienced its good effects.
C. O. FILES, M.D.
Derangement of Secretory and Nervous
Systems.
Rutland, Vt., Jan. 23,1879.
While I am exceedingly averse to givfng certlfl-
cates, and almost always decline to do so, yet in
the case of “ Horsford’s Acid Phosphate,” I am
willing to say, that, having used it very consider-
ably, I can testify to its great value in functional
derangements of the secretory and nervous sys-
tems. CHAS. WOODHOUSE, M.D.
Pamphlets, with full information as to the
wonderful curative properties of Horford’a Acid
Phosphate, furnished free on application to
BARRON, MOXHAM & CO., SYDNEY.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
2v£agrlc Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
“ It Works like a Charm.”
It is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches fire. It cures
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Braises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lame Back, B.heumatiam,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an internal remedy it tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morlins, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Throat, and Dyp-
theria.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use in
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers in
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported into this country, and have
gained throughout the colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. 1
leather, and the upholstery Is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their finish
BECAUSE they are each and all built under special
instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage builders in America,
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say they are tub
BEST. \
American Carriage Emporium,
WTNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
BARRON, MOXHAM & CO.,
Solo Agents.
James Stephens, the ex-Head Centre of the
Fenians, who escaped so strangely from the Rich-
mond Bridewell years ago, still resides in Paris,
hard up. In April last, the Standard published
a letter from him on Irish affairs. Stephens scouts
alike the pseudo-Constitutionalism of Mr. Parnell
and the “criminal enterprises” of the dynamite
party. He is for war, this Parisian flaneur—war in
the open field against the power of England; and
he Invites Mr. Parnell to “follow the track” of
Lord Edward Fitzgerald and Smith O’Brien, both
of whom, he seems to forget, utterly failed in all
their schemes and narrowly escaped the gallows.
Persona at home intending to emigrate to
N.8.W. have to undergo a searching medical exa-
mination. They march on board ship and show
the surgeon any vaccination marks they have con-
.cealed about them. Having done this, and answered
some searching questions regarding their people’s
liability to fits or wooden legs, they are considered
-fit. A good few have been rejected under these
somewhat stringent regulations.
Qerringong is probably the only place in
the world where the exact price of a drink is four-
pence. And it is probably the only place where
the genius of a publican could rise to this: “ Notice 1
Any person who may object to coppers, either
from their dark colour, great weight, or insignifi-
cant value, is hereby Informed that no offence will
be taken if they are left on the counter. N.B.—In
God only I trust. To all others, prompt net cash.
Advance Australia I”
The May town (N.Q.) riflemen are a splen-
didly organised force. All they are waiting for
now before they deal death and destruction around
Generally is cartridges. But they’ll wait some
ime. Acting under instructions for one in autho-
rity who is on guard over the public safety, the
sexton anticipated their arrival and stowed the
amunltion away in—the water-butt. There is only
one person now in Maytown who hasn’t got a
rifle, and that’s the constable. He says it takes
him all his time to keep the armed warriors in
order—with a stick.
Country M.P., driving through electorate
adjacent to his own, nears pretty large township,
and is annoyed to find (notwithstanding the tele-
graphic announcement of his coming) not a soul to
meet him, Sees big boy dangling his legs from a
fence. Member: “Hi! you, sir—who are you?”
B.B.: “I’m the hoperator, lam.” Mem.: “Then
what are you doing here ?” B.B.: “ Line’s broke.”
Mom.: "Oh, perhaps that’s the reason my tele-
gram ” B.B.: "What! Are you the cove as
wired to the Mayor to ” Mem.: “ Yes. Did he
get it?” B.B.: “Well, no; I didn’t bother. Meant
to have told him, but— I forgot. (Then, as an after-
thought): But I told old Cappilow, the blacksmith,
and Mike Moroney,—and ” Mem. (gasping);
“ And what did they say ?” B.B.: “They said you
could go to . Get up!”
The Jamberoo Orangemen have at last
taken the bit between their hairy teeth, and
ottered prizes amounting in the aggregate to £5
for six essays. Referring to this dare-devil gene-
rosity, the local paper says: “ As the prizes offered
amount in value to £5, the contest should bring
out all the latent talent possessed by the members
of the lodges concerned, and tend to their mutual
improvement.” There appears to be a keen appre-
ciation of the amount required to bring all the
Orange talent of the district to the fore. Fortu-
nately the prejudices of the local men have been
so far overcome as to extend to the whole colony
the prizes previously intended for Kiama, Gerrln-
gong, and Jamberoo alone. It is in consequence of
this that Mr. John Davies has promised a little
work on “January,” so as to give his mind a
“spell,” while it is hoped Pastor Allen will send a
paper on " Mouths,” with special reference to the
mouth of hell.
The Americans are making the new coin-
age for the King of Siam. And not before it was
wanted. When we were in Bangkok, some years
ago, we went to a fruit-stall near the King’s palace
and bought a water-melon. The coin wo tendered
was a tical—a little silver ball with a dent in it. We
took the fruit and stood around for our change.
First we got thirty bas-reliefs of an elephant in
zinc. Then seven lumps of copper. This ex-
hausted the exchequer, apparentlv, for the stall-
woman got up and went over to another betel-nut-
chewing dame to borrow some more. She returned
and proceeded to count out tin and p wter coins
by the dozen. Just about this time, the soldiers
came along to relieve guard. They were nearly all
either chewing betel-nut or eating water-melons.
The officer was about a quarter of a mile behind,
and had on a pair of Zouave pants and a marine's
tunic. We gave the warriors the change of our
tical to scramble for, and the next moment you
couldn’t see them for dust. This brought up the
officer, double quick time, and in a flash he was on
top of the soldiery. When we left, the old woman
at the stall was busy counting out our change. A
tical is worth 3s. Perhaps she is counting still.
At Auckland, the Crimean veterans have
determined to hold a banquet in September, to
commemorate the fall of Sebastopol. What a
number of points that quarrel with Russia cleared
up! We discovered, for instance, that our men
were as good as ever, and our organisation as bad.
We also found out that the speculations regarding
the reign of universal peace, so indulged in by
philosophers when Paxton’s palace was opened a
few years before, were about as trustworthy as
Falstaff’s account of the marauders he put to
flight. Morhleu! How we drew close to the fire
those winter evenings ever so long ago, and lis-
tened silently and shudderingly to the matter-of-
fact accounts of how our men were dying with
want and hunger, while stores for ten times their
number were rotting a few miles away at Bala-
clava I We drink to you, Auckland veterans, and
may the September night of 1883 be as pleasant as
that of 1855 was miserable. But one word more.
Don’t forget the comrades who stood shoulder to
shoulder with you that chill November morning,
and saw the Czar’s far-reaching, grey-coated bat-
talions marching into the valley of Inkermann—
comrades who, nothing daunted by the terrible
odds, stuck to the old flag and died beside it.
It is said that the late Mrs. Carlyle was
such a fascinating woman, that “ when she left her
parasol in a coach, the passengers would eagerly
compete to restore it to her.” We should like to
know how she worked it. We are pretty faseiu at-
Ing ourselves, and though we have frequently stt
a tram-car in a roar, as often as not while we were
remonstrating with one man for sitting on our
lunch, another hasmiade away with our umbrella.
Wo have lost so many umbrellas that we haunt
Bill Merriraan, the Sydney Transit. Commissioner s
Registrar, like an unquiet spirit. He has got a
cupboard full of umbrellas there, and when ho
opens the door they all come toppling out on the
floor. Such cripples! He has pattens, too. and go-
loshes, small articles of brass jewellery, odd gloves,
satchels, and perfumery. The lot is worth about
9d., and anybody can have any oi it who likes to
look round. We called on him, fuming:, not long-
time, bewailing- the loss of an ulster, left in a cab.
Bill smiled, and said ho would sec what he could do
for us. He didn’t seem to bo able to do much. The
nearest he could come to it was a lattice-work
parasol, a lady's boa, and two odd shoes. It’s not
William’s fault; for the honest cabmen all take
the things somewhere else, and only the wicked
ones leave found articles in Phillip-street. How-
ever, if any amongst a bizarre public take a fancy
to a gingham umbrella patched with a pair of
dungaree pants, or an india-rubber foot-bucket
with the heel out, the Registrar can supply these
articles wholesale, retail, and for exportation.
This superannuation of Civil Servants on
which Victoria plumes itself so proudly is not
invariably accompanied with satisfactory results.
It seems the theory is becoming accepted that
when a man ceases to be a Civil Servant he takes
the rank of gentleman, and the theory in itself is
extremely intelligible to all who have had any
Intimate dealings with officialdom. These will say
that if the interesting event is ever to take place
it must be some time about then. But unfortu-
nately the theory does not carry the native mean-
ing of the words in which it is expressed. It
carries the Civil Service meaning of these words.
Thus, when a Civil Servant is superannuated into
the state of gentleman, ho does not feel obliged to
pay old debts. Henry Brook has Just climbed up
there, and he hands over to his assignee liabilities
£1201 9s. (Id., and assets £45 Os. lOd. He says that it
is owing to his having been made a gentleman.
Let us lie light and niry. We write this at
the mirkest minute of the ebon hour of midnight.
The wind whistles through the key-hole with a
sound that is blood-curdlingly suggestive of the
shriek of an uptorn mandrake. The candle flickers
like a corpse-light, and the chair we sit on creaks
every now and then, as if in wooden terror of the
viewless horrors that never sit on chairs. The
devil is abroad to-night. Our thoughts are in
keeping with the time. We will eschew every-
thing frivolous and volatile, and settle ourselves
grimly down to ghastliness and gloom. A black
spider hangs by an unseen thread from the roof.
It seems to us the metempsychosis of a murdered
miser. We don’t know why it does, but it does.
We suppose it is only a funereal fancy of the night.
But there it hangs and swings like a skeleton on a
gibbet, and claws the air as though it were the van-
guard of the army of decay clutching at us from
the charnel-house. We don’t think we shall drink
any more rum. Let us see, what were we going to
write about? Ah, yes I It was in Tumut, the
place of tombs. A Chinaman had been burled.
This clears our minds of one corroding doubt. We
always thought Chinamen were immortal. Wo —
just the smallest taste with sugar! Thank you I—
we never saw what we took to be an old Chinaman
yet. Perhaps the old Chinamen leave their teeth
at home. We have seen Chinamen of all classes,
from the silk-robed Sybarite who smokes his
opium on a divan of crimson silk, to the squalid
wretch who lives in a stye. But, except in a few
instances, we could never tell the difference be-
tween one Chinaman and another. One of these
instances was a Chinaman who had false teeth,
which were only fixed at each corner of his mouth
and used to work independently of the gums, so
that when he spoke he looked to nave three mouths
all gibbering at once. But to return to Tumut.
The Chinaman who was burled there had before
his death quarrelled with another, and the other
came in the night and despoiled his dead enemy’s
grave. This is carrying hate to hell, if you like.
There is a gloomy horror about the picture which
we are almost afraid to think of Just at this hour.
Just another thimbleful. Now we are bold again!
Conceive the picture. The dark dead of night in
a lonesome graveyard. A man is digging at a
grave. His eves blaze halt with horror of what he
shall see down below, and half with infernal hate.
All the ancestral friends of his dead enemy are
thronging around. He digs desperately, with the
cold sweat standing on his brow. He has struck
something. It is the coffin lid. His spade goes
through it. Then—ugh, this is enough I The air
even now is black with bat-winged ghouls.
Most ridiculous of all the traits of the
English people is that wave of maudlin philan-
thropic gush which at intervals sweeps over the
nation, about something or other. Once, It’s an
Iceland famine, which didn’t exist: next, a heaven-
sent compassion for costermongers’ donkeys; then
it’s the new society that comes under notice for
sending lace-edged pantalettes to the ladies of
Ruratiroo. Society, represented by stupid old
ladies, and unctuous old parsons, must have its
pet. But it’s never, no never, the crime and filth
and povertv and privation of London streets that
fills all hearts with charity. No, that’s all too near.
Maudlin philanthropists must look farther afield.
The latest fad is the bonnie flshergirls that came
from their t omes to the Fishery Exhibition, and
have excited the interest of the dainty ainstocracy,
while, as the World says: “ At their very doors—
in nakedness, hunger, and misery—there are hun-
dreds infinitely more in need, and perhaps quite as
deserving of substantial patronage, as the well-fed
and often well-to-do tollers of the sea. By and by,
the turn of some others will come. The agricul-
tural labourer may have a chance of figuring as a
society pet: and if the pitman would only wash
himself, and leave his * dawg ’ at home, there is no
reason why he should not be as good a plaything as
young sweeps were in Charles Lamb’s day, or
negroes have invariably been in the more serious
strata of Dissenting circles.”
When the two local members visited Port
Macquarie, the other day, the usual banquet was
held, and a hilarious vote of confidence was passed
in their favour. Then an elector rose and said it
made him almost too happy for words to know
that these two noble gentlemen had pledged them-
selves to exercise their Parliamentary influence
and devote all the energy of their massive Intellects
to the glorious object or providing Port Macquarie
with free punts. The audience were so much
affected at this juncture that they could only
hiccup out a husky cheer. Then the chairman
asked if anybody wanted to put a question to the
members, and a constituent who appeared to have
been i rooding over the subject all the night rose
and solemnly asked: “ Whether the crime of Incest
could bo dealt with ?” This festive after-dinner
query staggered the members for a moment, and
then one of them faintly answered : “ That he had
no doubt it could.” Whereupon the interrogator
gave them a satisfied glare and stalked out of the
room. It is supposed he was the ghost that
belonged to the bones which were lately fished up
out of the Dead Sea, and that he had mistaken
these two excessively moral legislators for the
members for Gomorrah.
With the habitual drunkard life is reel.
On the glorious 12th of July in Taraworth
some holy Itoraans decorated a Chinese vegetable
hawker with green ribbons. Then he met an
Orangeman, who fixed a sunflower in his hat. Then
the tun began. A savage Papist took affront
at Oscar Wilde’s emblem, and a Wi llamite
felt aggrieved by the ribbons, and both behaved
in an Irish manner towards the Mongolian.
John is now quite full of the “glorious, pious,
and Immortal, and says : “No mo’ Leme-
land Isle—no savee Elin my eountlee.”
After all, says an English Radical paper,
we cannot hlame the Governor of Queensland
very much for doing what he has done. He has
but followed in the footsteps of the Government
at home, and no doubt believing that in con-
senting to the annexation of the island of New
Guinea he was but doing the Gladstone Ministry a
service. At any rate, he had the example of Egypt
before him. Why did we go to war with the
Egyptians? Precisely for the same reason that the
Government of Queensland have taken possession
of the country of the Papuans—the unreasoning
tear that a foreign Power was going to take posses-
sion. Where is this annexing to end?
“ Was Jesus a Christian ?” No! No more
than Weslev was a Wesleyan, or Descartes a
Cartesian. The Christianity of Dogma and
Ritualism veils Jesus of Nazareth. In His words
truth found an utterance; but Christianity has so
twisted and turned and theologised those words
that now, made the menials of “ ism” and “ oiogy,”
they rarely give forth aught but a desolate
evangel—
A hopeless note of hope deferred I
What word ? if there be any word ?
The Bishop of Melbourne recently ad-
duced, as an instance of the growing irreverence
of the young colonial, the story of the child who,
on being told about the Ascension for the first
time, remarked that Jesus must have had a lot of
gas (inside him to go up into heaven I Where the
irreverence comes in ’tis difficult to see. Lack of
faith to accept the miraculous is not Irreverence,
though priestcraft would have it to be so.
Through the left hand a nail is driven,
Faith, and another through the right,
Forged in the fires of hell and heaven,
Fear that puts out the eye of light;
And the feet, soiled and scarred and pale,
Are pierced with falsehood tor a nail.
It would seem that orthodoxy is not con-
ducive to orthography, and that an individual may
be godly without being grammatical. The most
ardent adorer of Calvin may be free from the taint
of allegiance to Dr. Johnson, and the humblest
devotee of Mother Church may scorn the teaching
of Lindley Murray. The Presbyterian speaks of
something or other as being the creme de crime of
hymn books, and the Distress alludes to the
Noozb as the Yesperal Vampire. There might
be some excuse for a Rum man to conjure up such
an ornithological horror, but that any such crea-
ture could be even dreamt of by our holy friend—
the thought is too much.
At Bundaberg, on 12th July, the Rev.
Smith made a fierce attack on the Church of Eng-
land. And at Newcastle, Rev. W. Hill said “ they
would go on celebrating the 12th of July until all
the priests married the nuns.” (Loud applause.)
He also said “ he had some good friends amongst
the Catholics.” He further remarked that “one
Catholic friend took him by the hand and hoped
he would meet him in Purgatory, but he (Mr. Hill)
hoped nothing of the kind.” This, of course,
brought down the house. He added that “ since he
had been in Newcastle, he had the pleasure of re-
lieving many poor Roman Catholics ”—by offering
them meat on Good Fridays ? He capped the lot
by what a country paper calls “atremendous
whopper.” He said “ on one occasion I gave the
boots off my own feet to a Roman Catholic.”
INTAGLIOS.
Song.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O, woman windeth round our hearts
The tendrils of her love;
The sigh that comes, the tear that starts,
The mildness of the dove;
These things she glveth as the sun
Flings o’er some falling stream,
In circling beauty all unwon,
Fit hues to fill a dream.
Then unto woman raise the song—
She charms our nights and days:
For her we would our years prolong,
And wear the poet-bays;
For her we would renew our life,
Gain gold enough to wed,
For what is woman not a wife
But woman who is dead 1
The Narrow Aisle of Pain.
Laugh, and the world laughs with you;
Weep, and you weep alone,
For the sad old earth must borrow its mirth,
But has trouble enough of its own.
Sing, and the hills will answer;
Sigh, it is lost on the air,
The echoes bound to a joyful sound.
But shrink from voicing core.
Rejoice, and men will seek you;
Grieve, and they turn and go,
They want full measure of all your pleasure,
But they do not hoed your woe.
Be glad, and your friends are mans';
Be sad, and you lose them all.
There are none to decline your nectarcd wine,
But alone you must drink life’s gall.
Feast, and your halls are crowded:
Fast, and the world goes by.
Succeed and give, and it helps you live.
But no man can help you die.
There is room in the halls of pleasure
For a large and lordly train.
But one by one we must all file on
Through the narrow aisle of pain.
The Aspen Song.
’Neath the aspen—where the leaves
Tremble, toss, and quiver,
As they tell of vows—Ah I well—
Writ on sand and river.
I lost my heart, my better part,
Never to regain it I
Charmed away, ’t would not stay,
Gold nor steel could chain it!
And I sang, though a pang
Prophetic thrilled my bosom,
“ Ah, be mine, maid divine 1
Tender spring-tide blossom.”
With eyes cast down, soft eyes so brown,
That witched me into madness,
She nought replied, but only sighed
One deep-drawn sigh of gladness.
Then she took, with one bright look,
My heart (for nought could bind it),
My breast the trembling bird forsook,
I never more could find it 1
Yet the maid never said, “yea ” or “ nay ” or
“never,”
But crowned my bliss with one fond kiss,
That made me hers for over !
We parted ’neath the whisp’ring tree.
That seem’d to answer, “ Dearest I
I am thine—thou art mine—
Of all my loves the nearest.”
’Neath the aspen, where the leaves,
In trembling tresses serried,
Whisper “ Death ” with weird-like breath,
There my heart lies buried.
G. G. McC.
Melbourne.


Foster s Bugle Brand.
Hotel
CORNER CASTLEREAGH & BATHURST
STREETS, SYDNEY.
JAMES SHARP,
Late of the Collonnade Hotel, corner of King and
Gastlereagh Street*, desires to inform his friends
U 1 ® P ubbc generally, that he has removed to
the above Hotel, which has been lately known as
the ‘‘Hyde Park Hotel,” and which ne has tho-
roughly renovated. J. 8. trusts that, by his usual
strict attention to business, combined with the best
brands of Wines, Spirits, &c., to merit a fair share
of patronage. J. S. desires to state that he still
draws the famous
“SILVER CUP BEER.”
Ktss^odw/^oji
33 COLLEGE STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
.. TEETH on the most approved Eng-
lish Principles, Fitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastica-
tion, Natural Appearance, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping, Scaling, and Extractions skilfully
performed.
Jj A MaSCOTTE CONSULTATIONS.
METROPOLITAN, & MELBOURNE CUP, 1883.
Metropolitan, 5000 shares at 10s. each ... £8500
Melbourne Cup, 10,000 shares at 10s. each £6000
SYDNEY.
Metropolitan Stakes.
1st Horse
2nd „
3rd „
Starters...
Non-starters
Prize Gifts
MELBOURNE
Cup.
1st Horse
2nd „
3rd „
Starters
Non-starters
Prize Gifts
£2000
1000
500
300
300
1000
£2500 £5000
Prospectus on application.
The La Mascotte Company thanks the public for
their support in previous consultations, and hopes
for a continuance of their patronage for this pro-
gramme.
Appljcatlon, by letter only.
Applicants please state for which event.
D. LINDO,
Box 733, P.O.;
X»»0»0 on MELBOURNE CUP.
1883.
The Third Consultation of my 1888 Series.
“AUSTRALASIA” SWEEP.
13,000 Shares, at 5s each.—An even 4, £1.
£1000
500
350
150
100
Prizes at
£25—£250
10- 500
5— 250
„ , £1000
Grand total, £3000
events induces me to an-
■the
First Horse
Second Horse ..
Third Horse
Starters divide ..
Non-Starers
Total. £2000.
The success of former
nouncc the next on the Melbourne Cup,
greatest racing event of the year, us above.
Results advertised in leading papers, and for-
warded to all subscribers. A pound secures four
chances— not one only. Ten per cent, is deducted
for all expenses. Applicants are requested to en-
close notes, P.O.O., or crossed cheques (to which
exchange must bo added), and 4d. stamps for re civ
and result. Register letters.
Address—" AUSTRALASIA,”
Care of Mr. H. J. FRANKLIN,
Printer and Publisher,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
First Horse..
Second Horse
Third Horse
Starters divide
Non-starters
66 T'v I A M 0 N D.’
LBOURNE CUP CONSULTATION 1883.
Capital £10,000 in 20,000 Shares of 10 shillings each
DISTRIBUTED AS FOLLOWS:—
£3000 3 Prizes of £350 each, £500
2000 5 Prizes of 100 „ 500
1000 10 Prizes of 50 „ 500
1000 20 Prizes of 25 „ 500
500 50 Prizes of 10 „ 500
£10,000
Application by letter^only^ enclosing stamp, to
Care of O. Sehieblieh,
Watchmaker and Jeweller,
17 Little Collins-street East, Melbourne,
(Near Colonial Bank.)
Prizes paid one day after drawing, and Horses
paid two days after event.
Result slips posted to each Subscriber, and also
advertised in daily and weekly papers. Shares sent
per return post. Prospectus on application.
Letters containing cash should be registered.
If country cheques, must bear exchange.
N.B.—“Diamond,” in thanking numerous clients
for their support in previous successful racing
seasons, invites their co-operation in the above.
£3000 For 2s. Gd. £3000
A COLOSSAL FORTUNE for HALF-A-CROWN
The “ GREAT VICTORY ” SWEEP on the MEL-
BOURNE CUP, 1883.
To be Run on the 6th November.
This Gigantic Sweep, offering advantages to the
public never before attempted, is the property of
a bon&Jide Company with responsible directors.
CAPITAL: £1(5,000, divided into 80,000 Shares of
3s. 6d. each.
Also, over 1000 Prizes guaranteed, and distributed
as follows:—
1st horse ..
2nd horse ..
3rd horse ..
Starters divide
Non-starters do.
20 Prizes at £50
£25 ..£1000
10 .. 1000
5 ., 1000
1 .. 750
..£10,000
Not less
man * ocui tu »ny single auuress. oena f. O. order
cheques, or bank notes. If stamps are sent, add
exchange at the rate of Is. in the pound. Should
coin be sent, register letter. Please send 3d. extra
for membership.
The drawing will take place on the 1st November,
and will be conducted by a committee of 150 Share-
holders drawn from the entire body. The result
will be posted to all Shareholders immediatelv
and advertised throughout the colonies.
Tickets sent by return post.
Write at once for charge.
Care of G eorge Robertson, 94 Bo’urke-street
Next Opera House, Melbourne.
D. & R. BRADFORD,
Ironfounders, General
Blacksmiths, &c.,
"CITY FOUNDRY,”
HT 121 LIVERPOOL STREET,
and at
201 ELIZABETH STREET,
Between Bathurst and Park Streets.
All kinds of Ornamental Casting’s, Wrought Iron
Palisadings, Wrought and Cast Iron Girders, Cast
Iron Water Pipes, Connections, Water and Fire
Plugs.
Estimates given for all kinds of Ironwork, &c.
K
IRKER, GREER, & CO., DISTILLERS
BELFAST and GLASGOW.
LOCH DHU, very oldest and purest Scotch
Whiskey.
SHAMROCK, very oldest and purest Irish
Whiskey.
Won 4 Gold Medals and Australian Exhibitions.
Government Analyst says: Unusually pure,
mellow, and well-matured.
FROM ALL SPIRIT MERCHANTS.
Agent: G. ADAMS,
119 Pltt-st., Sydney, and Flindex-s-st., Melbournne
THE CRITERION,’’
15 Royal Arcade 15.
FIRST-CLASS LUNCHEON and REFRESHMENT
ROOMS for LADIES and GENTLEMEN.
The comfort of Ladies has been especially attended
to. An ELEGANTLY-FURNISHED APARTMENT
has been set aside for their sole use. It will be
supplied with writing materials, daily papers,
journals, &c., &c.
Gentlemen in town can obtain, AT ALL HOURS.
COLD LUNCHEONS—Ham, Beef, Tongue, Sar-
dines, Salads, Hard-boiled Eggs, &c., &e.
Cup of Tea or Coffee, with Light Refreshment*
6d.: equal in every respect to the celebrated
“ CRITERION ” BUFFET, LONDON.
Celebrated American Iced Drinks.
EDWARD MAWBY,
Proprietor.
BLEND
[trade]
JmarkI
jiX
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.-This is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
P. KIEBT,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
"CTn.<3.exta,lror,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
JOHN DANKS,
IMPORTER OF
Bicycles ail Tricycles
AND ALL THE NECESSARY
Fittings for same,
363 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ASK FOR
€[inttbW'
Olfrfytghlonfr QUpfiEwjvN
LATE
JAMES WALKER
EDINBURGH
ki\[ pinii
Registered
n° ha d from ALL WINE AND SPIRIT MER-
L CHANTS, and WHOLESALE from the
SOLE AGENTS:
JOSEPH BOYD & SON,
1 CHANGE ALLEY, PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Near the Circular Quay).
To be procured in Cases, Casks, Octaves, and Jars
please read Certificates of its purity ; also.
Certificates from the 42nd Royal Highland Regi-
ment "THE BLACK WATCH,’’ and tKe 71st High-
I . n r f 5- I J,n 5 'v &c v &c - 1,8 applied them by
JAMES WALKER, for 14 years, till his death, and
still supplied td them by JAMES HADDOW & CO.,
the purchasers of James Walker’s business, with
the right to use his name on all Labels, Invoices,
Seals, and his Trade marks and symbols.
S3Y" Notice—The above label registered.
JOSEPH BOYD & SON.
WRICHT, HEATON ft CO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE :
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.S.W.:
Goulbum
Yaas
Downing
Blnalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Juuee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rock
Culcairn
Cowabee
Narandora
Hulong
Carratnool
Hay
Western District, N.S.W.:
Capertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
Nevertire
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblin
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
;1
Northern District, N.S.W.:
Morpeth Brewarrina
Gunnedah Tam worth
Narrabri Ural la
Walgett
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Line:
Brisbane Yeulba
Roma Cambooya
Dalby
Centrat, Line:
Rockhampton Capella
Bogantungan Comet
Emerald
Northern Line:
'ownsville
lhartera Towers
Ravenswood Junction
Agents in Victoria and South Australia;
WM, MCULLOCH & CO., LIMITED.
J3F” Agencies in all parts of the world.
UMBRELLAS
RECOVERED.
S
TUDY ECONOMY,
and
Have yourUmbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
cuted.
a
f-
vv
s?
Wt
m.
m
—ns
i
i
1
sBSW
Ek
i*
'--
SES3
«K
—v*
M
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Marke
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WIN?
MERCHANTS,
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapmai
AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS
14 and 16 Spring 1 Stree
Sydney,
Have alw ys in STOCK, for SAL
to the TRADE and WHOLI
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWAR1
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARI
m
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T, GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale,
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS
For Price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &o.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407~OEORGE STREET,
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
TO CONNOISEURS of WHISKEY & BRANDY.
W. & A. Gilley’s CASTLE BRAND WfllS-
KBY and L’OR EXTRAIT BRANDY are the
oldest and purest spirits Imported.
TUCKER & CO., Agents,
377 George-street.
HUST’S BOOT EMPORIUM, 4<M George St.
near King-street.
Gents’ Boots, French Calf or Kid, superior quality,
from 10s. 6d.
Superior Ladies’ Extra High Glace Kid Button
Boots, superior quality, from 10s. 6d.
Ladies’ Evening Shoes, a great variety, from 4s. 6d
M ELBQURNE CUP, 1883
LEVIATHAN “ ADAMASTOR ” COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £30,000 in 40,000 SHARES of 10s Each.
634 PRIZES (more or less), £13,750 for STARS,
and £7350 for HORSES.
Plan of Astronomical Distribution:
First Horse (winner of the Melbourne Cup)...
Second Horse
Third Horse
Starters (divide)..
Non-starters (do)
£3000
1500
750
800
1300
V First Star £3000 ***
V Second Star 1000 ♦**
*** Third Star 500 ***
12 stars of £200 each, 100 stars of £100 each, 20
Stars of £50 each, 20 stars of £40 each, 45 stars of £35
qach, 100 towns of £10 each, 200 towns of £8 each,
85 towns of £6 each, and “ the comet ” £40.
Adamastor,” in thanking his subscribers for the
liberal support that he has received from them for
the past three years, and in consequence of the
yearly increase of subscribers, llnds it necessary to
double his programme, which he begs herewith to
submit.
All parties are requested to forward drafts, P.O.
orders, or cheques; if cheques, exchange must be
added, and in all cases postage fees; if cash, to
register letter. Application by letter only, ad-
dressed —
“ADAMASTOR,” care of L, A. Pereira, 34
Bourke-street, west, Melbourne; Box 473, G.P.O.,
Sydney; and Little’s Bass Hotel, corner Pitt and
Market Streets, Sydney.
P.8.—Results sent to country shareholders, and
published in The Australasian, Age, and Sydney
town and Country.


Ned Greenfield, aged 22, who for some
time had been stopping at a temperance hotel in
Melbourne (which tact, by the by, did not hinder
him from drinking pretty hard), on being rejected
by a young lady placed a revolver to his head a,nd
blew out his brains. Let us hope the disdainful
fair one, having seen his body borne away upon a
shutter, like a well conducted person went on
cutting bread and butter.”
Times are at present so bad in South
Australia, the general public so destitute of cash
to-day, yet the season so promising—that many
men who are not insane seriously propose absten-
tion, outside ordinary living expenses, from
recovery of debts at law for the next three months.
The project is not so foolish as well-to-do people
might imagine, and would probably be a means of
providing creditors with the otherwise unobtain-
able twenty shillings in the pound.
About the most sensible marriage cere-
mony wo have hoard of was that of an American
merchant, who walked with his wife, in everyday
garb, into the clergyman’s parlour, and said: Wo
desire to i»e married. Here is the license, strictly
according to law. She is 33. and I am 33; and we
are not only willing but anxious to Join. Wo are
both of sonn'd mind, in fair bodily heath, and know
exactly what wo are about. Please do it at once,
in the briefest church form. Oinit all the custoin-
ary wearisome advice. You have never seen either
us before, don’t know our circumstances, and
four advice .wouldn’t be likely to suit. Don t say
anything about the hereafter; because wo know
just as much about it as you do. Omit any long
stereotyped prayer; and, particularly, omit kissing
the bride, for I only regard you as an ordinary
man and not at all divine, either in what you say
or what you do. If you can, summon two intelli-
gent adult witnesses. Now begin.” He married
them.
Here’s a nice thing.
In America they make
black bishops travel in
the smoking cars! That’s
a tine country to live in!
Why, if a black bishop
came out hero they would
not only let him ride in
the ladies’ carriage if he
liked, but would, in all
probability, either g ve
him a tea-tray or crown
him with flowers. Why,
we know—stay, though,
he’s not a bishop—but—
[We’ll stop here.—Ed. B.j
Discovery has just
boon made of a vile trade
carried on in San Fran-
cisco by photographers.
Pictures are taken in the
nude of shameless women
and to them are affixed
the photographed heads
of well-known society
beauties, and the combi-
nation being retaken, the
result can be imagined.
Often the nude figures
are represented in the
most indecent postures,
and the joining on of the
face is so naturally done
as never to be suspected
unless the method is
known. Such pictures of
virtuous and pretty girls
from the best families
are to be seen on the
mantelpieces of many of
the young bloods about
town.
The blazing sun
shone on Bargowlahmlne.
On upland and forest,
arid plain and watered
paddock, his rays fell
untempered by a breath
of wind. Away to the
south a solitary pedes-
trian could bo seen, whose
footsteps were bent to-
wards the nearest squat-
tor’s. He appeared weary,
and carried a swag of
phenomenal size. Ar-
rived at the door, ho
remarked, in answer to
tho usual question as
to whether no wanted
work: 44 What do you
think I’m humpin’ me
schwag for ? It’s afthcr
light work I am ? ”
" Then I can give you a
five years’ job at a
pound a week and the
run of your teeth. I
want a piece of land
dummied.” 44 Faix,” said
tho stranger, 44 I’ve
sthruck it at last. That’s
the very billet I’ve been
lookin’ for.” We were
about stopping here, as
the remainder cf the
story is depressing, but.
having begun, it is as well
to finish. Tho gibes of
thoughtless employes in-
duced the foolish fellow
to climb on top of a buck-
jumper. A short time
afterwards he was ob-
served standing on his
head on one corner of tho
land ho was employed to
shepherd. Ho had dum-
mied himself instead of
the ground. Of course
ho didn’t kill himself be-
fore making his will.
The Murchison (W.A.) blacks are thinking
of shifting further north. The Government is too
penurious to supply sufficient policemen aud
magistrates; so that, when anything goes wrong
on the Murchison, some troopers are sent there to
ash about it. Two things always result from these
visits. The bobbies return to Ashburton with
culprits, and the niggers have to foot it the whole
way in irons, Singular, is it not, that they do not
embrace Christianity and civilization at once ?
Slavery has long ago been abolished wherever the
Union Jack Hies! Yah!
A Sydney young lady, educated and inde-
pendent, went to Noumea as 44 companion to are-
tired lady.” But the 44 retired” female had no in-
tention of giving up business. Her public and
assignation house in Noumea paid too well. It
was the head-quarters of all the rapscallions to be
found there. So the Sydney girl was to play the
pianoforte for the canaille. Had she not been
rescued at once, is it necessary to dwell on how it
would all end 'i Some years ago a profound sensa-
tion was created in England by the discovery that
the most nefarious of all traffics—the traffic in
young females—was particularly active between
Britain and Belgium. English governesses took
situations abroad, and were found a few weeks
afterwards in Belgian and Dutch brothels—de-
stroyed body and soul, sometimes by fraud and
sometimes by—force. A similar trade is growing
up between New Caledonia and N. S. Wales. The
French supply one sex, and we, alas! the other.
This kind of thing has been going on for years. It
is sufficiently dangerous for English or Australian
girls to marry Frenchmen unless the utmost care
be taken to comply with the somewhat compli-
cated legal formalities of the code. Any woman
who allows her daughter to go to Noumea as a
governess is a fool.
The New Ireland niggers tried to “ mas-
sacre” the crew of the Fanny, labour schooner, of
Mackay. They sneaked on one of the interpreters
and killed him; shot Captain Wawn through the
left foot and right arm, besides spearing him and
knocking him on the back with a waddy. They
speared, tomahawked, and shot the Government
agent, who is now in a very queer state indeed.
Cantain Wawn is a veteran island trader, has a
“lioye like a heagle,” and is afraid of nothing.
Archibald Forbes, please note.
Not long ago, two men were found guilty
of garotting m Melbourne. The sentence was
penal servitude for four years. In the great ma-
jority of cases, one or two sound floggings would
be added; but, for some reason not quite aoparont,
the thrashings were omitted. There was some ex-
citement when the sentences were pronounced.
Females, relatives of the convicts, fainted in court,
while the felons themselves were led away pro-
testing their innocence. The real culprit was a
man named Cummings. He has since told the
whole story, and steps are being taken for the re-
lease of the unfortunates, who have already
suffered a good deal of hardship. Society may now
be able to make them some reparation for the
wrong it has done; but what reparation could be
made had society, through tho barbarity of its
laws, subjected them to tho internal torture of the
lash at tho hands of the common hangman ? This
is a question which tho advocates for capital and
for corporal punishment always let severely alone.
So long as you have hanging and flogging, you will
occasionally make a mistake, and hang or flog tho
wrong man. Whether this happens frequently or
seldom is of little interest to the person hung or
flogged; and it is only necessary to put yourself In
his place, and observe how quickly your views
change on those matters.
At Washington a deaf-mute is practising
as a lawyer. He can only converse on the Gal-
laudet principle.” He generally gets his clients off,
for neither judge nor jurors want people to know
they don’t understand the Gallaudet principle. We
don’t. But give us a clutch of a little white hand,
and we will talk a good deal in a voiceless lan-
guage. Trace out the light blue veins and squeeze
at intervals. That Is our system. And if that is
the Gallaudet principle, why we do understand it
—considerably.
From' the Palmer (N.Q) Chronicle:—
44 Wanted a wife, by a hard working bushman, who
has a comfortable nest and enough to fill two
mouths. She must be of good repute, over 17 and
under 37, and neither too tall nor too short, too
fat nor too thin. I don’t care so much for music
and dancing as for cooking, tailoring, laundry
work, and cleanliness, and I will expect her to
prefer her home and my company to gadding
about to balls with young swells, or cackling with
her neighbours. Cartes, &c., exchanged; address
care Palmer Chronicle.”
44 Can a man touch pitch and not be
dellled?” asks a contemporary, apropos of the
Dean of Sydney presiding at an “ entertainment ”
given by the New South Wales Social Purity
society. We fancy, somehow, that this question
has been asked before and answered negatively.
This, however, is of little moment. The real in-
terest of the matter lies in the fact that Dr. IjL W.
Jackson and the Very Rev. the Dean of Sydney
fronted a number of their male and female fellow-
citizens, and, while the Dean sat solemly silent,
the Doctor told us all about 44 The Social Evil; its
nature, causes, and remedies.” We have collected
a large amount of information on this subject, and
our candid opinion is that as the “social evil has
existed from the twilight of history, and
as it is now in full swing with the star of the
i twentieth century ou the horizon—as it has out-
lived all civilizations and flourished as well under
the Puritans as under the Ptoiemys-so, when the
hundredth century comes round, it will he found
just as vigorous as it Is to-day, unless (and here is
the real key, however learned doctors may miss it)
human nature itself has boon changed in the mean
time. All the efforts frittered away in the endea-
vour to cure should be directed to regulate and
circumscribe.
Mrs. Willis looks oftener now than here-
tofore at dear John’s placid face. She had come
I down from the bush a month ago to Melbourne in
the first rosy radiance of the honeymoon, and, lean-
ing on John’s arm, was doing the Arcade under the
dazzle of the electric light. She unhitched to
satisfy her curiosity about some drapery exhibited
in an attractive window. John led her inside,
knowing by Instinct what would please her, and
while she handled some wonderful garments
thought ho would not bo missed. The Academy
was next door, and the P.B. sparkling. He was
back in a minute, but Wilhelmma was gone. O
John,” she cried, returning in half an hour with a
flutter, “ it wasn’t you. It was he. He was stand-
ing lust on the spot you were in when I lifted that
garment, and 1 took his arm and walked out with
him. I was talking to him all the way down the
street, and never thought of looking up, and when
1 did look 1 nearly fainted. It was another man
altogether.”
One of the smartest girls lives up North,
and she is a “ never touch it.” Next to a Sunday
school, or the choir, there is nothing like I.O. G. 1.
Harn.ony meetings to make innocent maidens as
wise as serpents under a dovelike exterior. She
set her cap at a Son, not a penurious young
spooney, but a middle-aged softy, who held it.
In h short time her stock ot jewellery increased, a
silk dress and other luxuries knocked the other
” never touch it” Sisters clean mad with envy, and
finally a ring appeared. Soon after, the smart
girl started lor the metropolis one lino morn with
a big cheque from the ol.i swain to buy furniture
for their future Arcadia. She went the whole
merry-go-round of Sydney fun, had a high time,
ran up bills to the old party’s name, and then,
returning, laughed in his face. In conclusion, the
diddled old lover went on a prolonged “spree,”
while the smart girl was looked on as almost a
heroine by her moral 44 never touch it” Sisters, and
was at once promoted in the Lodge.
My darling vowed that she would 11 y
To other climes with me;
That night I reared a plank on high
Against her window. She
Was bashful—feared for some mishap;
I took her brother Jim,
Said 1: 44 First try the little chap,
And then you follow him.”
Jim started down the plank with glee—
When oh! a feaful yell!
He’d caught a nail. Great heav’ns! if she—
But how was I to tell ?
Walter Archer married to four women,
and engaged to two more, has been committed for
polygamy. The two engaged girls will have to
wait Thei'e are some rich women in ’Murker.
Now York has Mrs. Alexander T. Stewart, who is
reported to bo worth anywhere from £6,000,000 to
£10,000,000; Mrs. Parvan Stevens, who is reckoned
worth £800,000. The Quaker City has Mrs. Thomas
A. Scott, the widow of the Pennsylvania Railroad
millionaire and magnate, who figures her securi-
i ties as worth £3,000,000; Mrs. Bloomfield H. Moore,
who is worth fully as much; the widows of the
proprietors of the Baldwin Locomotive Works,
whose wealth is placed at £600,000 each, while Mrs.
Boric, the widow of the late George Fales, the art
I Elector, and the widow of Henry Halle, are worth
?nre than £600 000... A witness asked to produce
«o«mf tea
vo-inf*h wear on his lie&Q. • • • miss Mnry ivnn
libbens, aged 16 years, who <
he other day, was over six feet high, one had
mtgrown her strength....
“* What is lighter than a feather ? „
“ The dust that blows in summer weather.
“ What’s lighter than the dust.Ipmy.'
“ The wind that blows the dust away. >
“ And what is lighter than the wind ?
“ The lightness of a woman s mind.
.. Proctor says that “ the tight-lacing young lady
s after all, the lit male ot her kind. . • Pinched
waists and shallow brain-pans should marry and
Intermarry till waists contracted and brains grew
Sower to the vanishing point.” Or, to put it
1 la SaXe bne of the very best matches,
Both arc well matched in life—
She’s got a fool for a husband,
He’s got a fool for a wife.
Like the smokers, who are always being threat-
ened with shattered nerves, and other direful
pains and penalties, even premature death, unless
they relinguish their beloved tocaeco, but never-
theless manage somehow to drag out a fairly com-
fortable allowance of days, the female world is
menaced by the dress reformers with divers and
sundry unpleasant ailments should they persist m
the pernicious habit of wearing corsets. We are
also solemnly exhorted to adopt the divided skirt,
and thereby secure health, etc. The dual garment,
however, is most probably destined for as brief
an existence as the Greek dress so much talked of
some little time ago, and as the Bloomer costume
of a remote age. The intentions of the divided
skirt promoters are-admirablc, no doubt, but it is
much to bo feared that the approval of their own
consciences is the onlyreward they are likely to have
Mr. Matthew Bur-
nett has enrolled 1000 per-
sons in his Red Ribbon
Brigade (tho never-
touch-its) in Western
Australia.
In speaking of the
latest phase of the day
trouble in Melbourne,
tho Presbyterian says
the question has 44 ad-
vanced a stage.” To
pile up a heap of grim
Calvinistic dogmas and
sixteenth century worm-
eaten traditions against
the door of the National
Art Gallery and Museum,
is the unco guiJ’s idea of
advancement.
Forbes says: “There
is a time not far distant
for Australia, when it,
like England, will have
its leisure class—men of
calm culture—men who
will have no personal
axes to grind, no private
logs to roll.” That kind
of thing is often said,
though it’s nought but
rot. The average Eng-
lish politician is a man
with axes to grind and
logs to roll. There have
been a few glorious ex-
ceptions, but, as a rule,
political life in the old
country has been in
reality, though perhaps
not in publicity, as cor-
rupt and foul as in the
States; and as between
Whig or Toiy 44 Bings”
and “ Tweed ” Rings, the
solo difference is that
these were worked b, low
and those by high fel-
lows. What about the
strenuous opposition of-
fered to Piimsoll’s bill for
the protection of those
who go down to the sea
in ships ? Faugh!
Lawn-tennis has at
last reached Camden.
Hitherto people there
have lived happily
enough. It was not, it is
true, the wild, mad whirl
of Paris or New York,
but it had its advantages,
not the least of which
was the fairly good un-
derstanding on which
neighbours lived. But
under the withering
blight of lawn-tennis all
this .will soon bo changed.
As a method for in-
ducing men and women
to hate each other with
that unreasoning, un-
compromising hatred
seldom found outside re-
ligious circles, we prefer
lawn-tennis to anything
else with which we are
acquainted. Camden has
now a future before it,
aud should at once set
about putting the gaol in
order, although the local
paper informs us that
44 the onlookers behaved
well, and there was no
occasion for police inter-
ference.” Not likely, for
the first time. But go on,
go on—and see how ’twill
all end.
During arguments in the S. A. Register
libel case, Symon, Q.C., inflicted useless and ridi-
culous legal cram on the Judges to the extent of
nearly two columns of reported matter. His ob-
jection, thus conveyed, amounted to this—that the
Court wasn’t a Court, and that the Judges weren’t
Judges. He wont rambling away to the Star
Chamber and William and Mary, and was prepared,
apparently, to contest the right of Mephistopheles
to stylo himself the leader of the Bar in hell
After suffering patiently for the two columns, the
Chief Justice simply remarked; 44 We do not think
it necessary to trouble the learned counsel sup-
porting the rule to answer this objection,” and
disposed of the Star Chamber, William aud Mary,
and Mephistopheles in two or three inches. Now,
any half-drunken auditor could have pretty well
done the same for Symon, Q.C., but, following our
constant line of thought, as regards law and
lawyers, what strikes us as the most malignant
outcome of this erudite advocate’s painful crudi-
diticn is its undoubtedly high price. Somebody
will have to pay Symon, Q.C., for this ridiculou
and useless two-column argument, probably, not
less than fifty guineas a column. That is where
our learned brethren best us. V.'e may not under-
stand their wire-drawn contentions, but are never
left in doubi as to the sum-total of their wire-
drawn bills. Why, in the name of Heaven, should
intelligent communities continue to tolerate legal
extortion? We do not agree to pay any other
tradesman ten times his possible or impossible
value!
HOW WE MAKE OUR RAILWAYS .
Here you have the Hue as originally surveyed, aud a proposed deviation. Which is which ! Well, you “ pays your money aud
you takes your choice ” —especially you 4 pays your money.
