

ANTHONY HORDERN
AND SONS
P
Haymarket,
l(r'r»
0 d **
rtf,
sfi
he If**
any “
turn*
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, Palace Emporium , Haymarket (0y)
' *• a
our Departments:— .
Manchester Goods
Furnishing
Dresses
Silks
Prints
Velvets
Mourn in or flnrul s
Hardware
latent Medicines
Stationery
.^lowers
Dressmaking
Hats and Caps
Mercery
Furniture
Cutlery
Tinware
Wool Goods
Toys
Feathers
Children’s Jackets
Portmanteaus
Tweeds
Carpets
Electroplate
Hollow-ware
Music
School Requisites
Hosiery
Lace v s
Perfumery
Haberdashery
Curtains
Gloves
"Ribbons
Millinery-
Costumes
Underclothing
Boots and Shoes
Clothing
Crockery
Floorcloths
juubuwu. , — ' Beds. Bedding, &c„ &c„ &c.
*g» Recollect, wo have only one address, and have no connection with any other firm of a similar surname,
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket, only.


THE
G-rea/t
CENTRE
OF THB
m
■
-X*
-
Boot Tri
«* »ydne y ;
is
JOHN HUNTER’S
RENOWNED CITY BOOT PALACE.
To my Patrons and the General Public. —It is now a little more than five years since the City Boot Palace was first opened and
the success that, has attended my endeavours to give satisfaction to my patrons has gradually increased year by year, until it lias
now reached a point far beyond my most sanguine expectations ; and I would avail myself ot the opportunity to return thanks for
past favours, assuring you that no effort will be spared on my part to maintain that prestige which the City Boot Palace has now
gained. I have determined to celebrate the 5th Anniversary of the opening of the above establishment by holding my FIPTH
ANNUAL SALE, on a scale of unparalleled magnitude, at which the goods will he marked in plain figures at such prices that must
necessarily effect a speedy clearance. Doubtless there are many who have pleasant reminiscences of the great bargains obtained at
my first and subsequent Annual Sales, at the City Boot Palace, 454 George-street (opposite the Markets), and I can assure them that
the same, if not greater, facilities will be afforded them and the general public for obtaining Ladies’, Gentlemen’s, and Children’s
Eirst-class Boots and Shoes, at less than they could he purchased for from the manufacturers.
Ladies’ Patent Dress Shoes
Ladies’ Levant E.S. Boots ...
Ladies’ Kid E.S. Boots
from 3s. lid.
Gent’s Goloshed E.S. Boots, English make ... from 6s. 6d.
Gent’s Plain E.S. Boots, superior make „ 6s. 9d.
Ladies’ Morocco Evening Shoes ... „ 3s. 3d. Ladies' Kid E.S. Boots 5 S . m
Choice selection of Ladies’ Button and Lace Boots. Children’ Boots and Shoes, in endless variety.
Remember the 5th Annual Sale, at John Hunter’s City Boot Palace, 454 George-street, is not for the purpose of clearing out
old stock, the immense patronage accorded by the general public preventing the accumulation of stock of any kind. Everything is
fresh, seasonable, and good. Trusting you will favour me with a visit to my 5th Annual Sale, I remain, Ladies and Gentlemen,
yours obediently, JOHN HUNTER.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.’S
Bon Accord Brass, Copper, Lead & Iron Works,
8 and 9 MACQUARIE PLACE,
PLUMBERS AND GAS FITTERS, ART METAL WORKERS, &C. MANUFACTURERS AND
IMPORTERS OF CHANDELIERS, BRASS WINDOW SASH BARS, DIVING GEAR, &c.
PUMPS, HELMETS,
DRESSES, HOSE,
SPRINGS, GUERNSEYS,
STOCKINGS, BOOTS
(with lead soles), ,
RE A AIRING CLOTH,
SOLUTION, and all
ACCESSORIES, &c.
THE MARSHALL
WINDOW FASTENER,
THE CHEAPEST
and
MOST INEXPENSIVE
FASTENER MADE.
Prevents all rattling, and
fastens the window at
any height.
No weights, pulleys, cords, &o.,
required.
Celebrated CHAMPION ROLLER SKATES, and every other make, always on hand. Wheels, Soles,
Bodies, and all Accessories. Manufacturers of the PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
Ranges Fitted with Hot and Cold Water, Circulating Apparatus and Boilers.
MEDALLISTS AND SPECIAL PRIZE HOLDERS. ESTABLISHED 1855.
MEINRATH AND CO.
96 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
San Francisco Palace of Art,
The patrons of the SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART, so well known throughout
the Australian colonies, are informed that, in addition to the same high-class portrait
work for which it has been noted,
Copies and Enlargements to Life Size, by new and improved pro-
cesses, from any photograph or negative, are now taken.
f ’
Opals, Autotype, Transfer, or Albuminized Paper, in Crayon or Coloured.
The same staff of Artists, who have rendered the work of this establishment famous,
«ir« employed, and all negatives (15,000 in number) taken during the past four years, carefully
preserved, from which copies may be had on application by sending name and address.
W. T. BENNETT, Manager.
P. R. LA.RRIN,
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPIRITS,
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has Just completed
extensive additions to his
Wholesale and Retail Bottle Department,
Which is now replete with a well-assorted stock of the Best Brands of Wines and Spirits, personally
selected by the proprietor during his recent visit to Europe. He can therefore confidently recommend
the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, as per Hie following list, hopes to merit a share of their
patronage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
PALE BHANDY. Per Bottle.
s d
Gilbey’s very old Brandy, gold top .. ..(id
Hennessy's V.O. ((very old) bottled by P. R. L. 6 0
Henuessy’s 3 Star (**♦) 6 0
Dubois and Co.’s Old *** Palo 5 6
Fine Old Pale, bottled by P. R. L. .. .. 5 6
Hennessy’s Battle Axe (*) 5 0
Martell’s Blue Label (*) 5 0
Flasks 2s 3d and 3 6
Half-liasks 16
Hennessy’s Draught Pale Brandy, per Impe-
rial quart 6s and 5 0
PORT WINE.
10-year old, OiJbey'p ... .. ,,
Celebrated Four Diamond
Quality— No. 1 (very superior old)
No. ***** grape
No. „
No. ***
No. ♦*
No. *
Draught Port Wine, per Imperial quart
Per Bottle,
i d
. - « •
.. 4
• •• M
. -5
DARK BRANDY.
Hennessy’s 3 Star (***) 6
” ----- ..6
5s and 4
5
Martell’s Very Old ***.,
Martcll’s Old
Martell’s Dark, per Imperial quart
Flasks
2s 6d and 2
LOWNDE’S W. I. RUM.
DARK.
Quality—Good 2
Better 2
Still Better 3
Quality—No. 1, per Imperial quart
No. 2,
Flasks
No. 3,
No. 4,
JAMAICA RUM,
6s and
3s and
Is 9d and
PAPE.
Very Finest ..4
Red Heart, 4
Fine Jamaica, per Imperial quart .. ..5
Jamaica Rum, in Flasks .. .. 2s 6d and 3
SHERRY.
40-year old, Gilbey’s
V cry Finest Amontillado (very dry)
Fine Amontillado
Celebrated Four Diamond Sherry
Common Sherry
Draught Sherry Wine, per Imperial quart
BRITISH WINES.
James Heddlc’s Ginger Wine
Orange Wine
IRISH WHISKY.
« i
11
s «
1 0
!i
3 »
31
i (
5 0
Jameson’s , * < I
Old Dublin Whisky (***) bottled by Burse ... 4 {
Kinahan’s unrivalled L L 4 i
'Thorne’s Old Irish Whisky ■■■, 'jj 4 0
Jameson’s * 00 . 3 <
Dunville’s ... ... ... ••• , .,v ", 6 d
Kinahan’s Draught, per Imperial quart j g
Jameson’s „ «
Flasks
SCOTCH WHISKY.
Walker’s 7-year old, in bulk
Thistle Blend
Royal Blend
ijd and
per imperial aB d
:‘J
4s and 5 J
Lome Highland
Kilmarnock
Glenllvet ...
Glenllvet Whisk
Flasks
GIN.
Blue Bell or Yellow Seal Geneva- aac jj
Celebrated Key Brand, very la size.
bottle containing more than a q j g
Flasks Key Gin
BEERS (BRITISH).
Best Brands of Ales and Porters always on hand.
ALBURY (N.S.W.) WINES.
Burgundy quarts 2 6
Ettamogah, red „ 3 6
„ Muscat „ 3 6
„ Reisllng „ 2 6
Fallon’s Shiraz .. .. .. ,. „ 2 6
,, <> .. .. pints 1 6 j'uwm at/ «*“ ... ■■■
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best afthe
allowed for. Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and deiner
Station or any wharf in the city, or any country station, Free of Charge. f 0 l)o* i! *
P. J I UARKIN’S CASE OF ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS.-On receipt of the
genuine articles wijl be forwarded in Square Bottles, securely packed in a case : PORT
5 Quarts KEY GIN. 1 Quart WHISKY, 1 Quart SUPERIOR gHEBBY '
3 Quarts PALE BRANDY, 5 Quarts WEST INDIA RUM, 1 Quart SUPERB^
tDTAL—15 QUARTS, , lt ,. and
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of ( ] 1)a i i c frost u
Sven perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, picas
rders payable at the Haymarket Post Office.
Kindly Note the Address—
P. R. LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail Wine & Spirit Merchant & h”P orlir
George and Gipps Sts., HaymarkelSydn®L|


THE BULLETIN
Vol. 1.—No. 24.—New Series
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 27. 1883.
Price—6d.
THE CIRCULATION OF “THE BULLETIN ”
IS NOW MORE THAN DOUBLE THAT OF
ANT OTHER WEEKLY NEWSPAPER IN
N-S. W.—THAT OF ONE VERT OLD ESTAB-
LISHED PAPER, WHICH EXCEEDS “THE
BULLETIN'S ” BY ABOUT ONE-FIFTH,
ALONE EXCEPTED. THE CIRCULATION
OF 11 THE BULLETIN" IS THE SECOND
GREATEST AMONG THE WEEKLIES OF
AUSTRALASIA.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 37, 1883.
The Condition of Europe.
The unrest of the Old World is again mani-
festing one of its periodical spasms. The
cable conveys every week tidings of signifi-
cant movements. Diplomatists are flitting
about. Troops are being concentrated at
this and that point. Monarchs are visiting,
and mobs are demonstrating. The symptoms
are not the less serious because they are
varied and fugitive. It is almost impraoti.
cable to follow them in their ever-changing
occurrence. Yesterday they assumed the
phase of a constitutional crisis in Bulgaria;
to-day, they bear the aspect of an emeute in
Portugal. Germany, Russia, Austria, Rou-
mania, France, Spain, Italy, Portugal—each
has its access of the fever of irritation, and
its sequel of the ague of apprehension, ft
is extremely difficult to diagnose the malady
which afflicts the Continental nations. The
symptoms are not only heterogeneous,
but irreconcileable. The most probable
explanation is that Europe is suffering from
a complication of maladies. And we think
that at least two can be distinguished and
defined. There is the inevitable and con-
stant struggle —not yet nearly come to a
head, but ever agitating the body politic—
between the people and the monarchs. And
there is the inevitable conflict between
France and Germany. There are others, but
more occult and of minor present impor-
tance; and by considering the two great
causes of agitation, considerable informa-
tion may be elucidated,
* * ♦
First, however, it will be convenient
to make a rough catalogue of recent
significant occurrences within the past
few weeks. Tue Nihilists having ap-
parently given their new Czar “ a fair
trial,” have renewed tbeir activity, and
have boldly announced to him that sentence
°f death has been passed upon him. There
ha< been an actual conflict between troops
belonging respectively to Austria and
•o Roumania. The Emperors of Germany
a nd Austria have had another iuter-
view. General Von Moltkb has in-
spected the strategical military avenues
a Pproaching France on the side of
Italy. The Croats, subjects of Austria, but
°f Sclavonic race, have risen in insurrection
against the Magyar or Hungarian element
m tlla t hybrid empire. There have been Re-
publican risings, civil and military, in
bpain. The Spanish King, contrary to the
remonstrances his Ministry, has thereupon
"irried to the German Emperor for counsel
and solace; and, hooted on his return by a
arisian mob, has scarcely consented to re-
from declaring the affront a casus belli,
de he thinly disguises that he only waits
Ring opportunity. Mr. Gladstone has
e tlle Czar of Russia; in Portugal there has
jy Q a Republican rising, while the Crown
fash' 0 * °* countr y has followed the
it !° Q amon £ kinglets, of carrying his
Ka| anx * e^es to the ear of the German
T .. • • •
g ar , ls is a curious jumble. Broadly re-
' ec h We observe amidst it France and
Germany as the central figures, with the
rest grouped around. The French nation,
ever with its eyes fixed menacingly on Ger-
many, waiting feverishly for its day of
revanche. Germany anxious, but stout-
hearted and prudent, constantly studying
to effect one of two things—either to sting
France into precipitate action, or, if that
fail, to concoct against her a monarchical
conspiracy. Here is one main-spring of
action. A vendetta between two nations,
with every other nation importuned to take
sides, or to stand neuter. But a profound
complication runs counter to the lines of
national policies, and disturbs every calcu-
lation based on them. A universal feud be-
tween castes distracts each separate nation;
and, while it tends to precipitate a crisis
by alarming and irritating monarchs, also
creates difficulties and confusion by exciting
bonds of sympathetic relation between the
actual people of all the nations. Thus, while
the French people and the German people
are distinctly inimical, the people of Spain
are to be flung at the throats of the people
of France, chiefly because they are too
friendly. The trouble which sent King
Alfonso scampering off to Berlin to whim-
per in the ear of his big brother Monarch,
was not foreign, but domestic. We do not
now allude to his alleged wife-slapping ex-
ploit, but to the demonstration by his own
subjects that they inci easingly held the opi-
nion that they could manage their affairs bet-
ter without him. It is the growth of Radical
and Republican opinions in Western Europe
which have sot the Monarchs in commotion.
The Germans are quite willing to help their
Kaiser to extinguish the French—because
t hey are French. But the Kaiser is a Mon-
arch as well as a German. He lusts not only
to crush the French as a nation, but as
a political organization. To him they
are worse than Frenchman—they are Re-
publicans ; they are worse than enemies
of his nation, they are foes to his billet. So
that when a puny A lfonso came whimpering
to his court, nothing was more fitting than
that he should assure that faineant monarch
that his subjects would be easily managed
were it not for the influence of the bold bad
nation over the Pyrenees. It would be easy
to convince Alfonso that the Spanish caught
their republican ideas from France—were
secretly incited and encouraged by the re-
publican nation—and could only be brought
into a proper frame of mind by making an
example of the bad boy of Europe, that
wicked France which had abandoned itself
unblushingly io liberty, and which pretended
to set an example of doing without monarehs
altogether. In short, Prance is not alone
the enemy of Germany, but the bete
noir of monarchy,—an inconvenient com-
bination which renders it easy for her
national foe to work up against her a
conspiracy of all nations still manageable
by their sovereigns. Crush France, and
you will then easily stifle Republicanism
among your own people. That is the doc-
trine taught to Kings at this time. Luckily
for the human race, although peoples com-
prise a vast number of blockheads, monarehs
are not supremely wise, either. They have
their senseless rivalries and jealousies, and
find it difficult to combine effectively. Rus-
sia has ambitions and greeds of her own, in
a direction where French influence is not
felt. Austria baulks her. Hence the Rus-
sian Monarch will not help to obliterate
France, lest he himself be the next victim
when Germany and Austria have their
hands thus left free. The nations are thus
brought to an equipoise more favourable to
the continuance of peace than anything
else could be. Mutually suspicious, equally
greedy, no one nation trusts the other, and
combined action becomes difficult. It is
little likely that even the Machiavellian
Chancellor of the German Empire—now in
his decline—will be able to so reconcile con-
flicting interests and allay natural suspicions
to the point which would suffice to enable
him to initiate offensive movements. But
he may succeed in shoving any other nation
into conflict with France by a sleight-of-hand,
as he nearly did when he sent the silly
Alfonso with his German commission as
Colonel of Uhlans in his pocket, to parade
the streets of Paris, and court affronts.
• • •
Populaces are yet great gabys. The people
feel wrongs before they have learnt to
analyse their feelings. The pinch of poverty,
and the sharp contrasts furnished by the
splendid extravagances, and often the un-
curbed licentiousness, of a court, as com-
pared with the sordid misery of the many,
and the severe pressure of taxation, make
many Republicans, who know nothing of
the ethics of universal brotherhood and
the equal rights of mankind. These suffer-
ing and resentful, but unreasoning, creatures
are still accessible to the most trumpery
superstitions and the most ridiculous senti-
mentalism. While on one hand they agitate
and insurreot for universal brotherhood and
the right to live their lives in peace and
plenty, on the other nothing is easier than
to inflame them against any people who are
of different extraction or talk a different
dialect. At the very moment when they are
chafing for an opportunity to get rid of their
Sovereign, they can be wrought upon to a
pitch of fury by being told that when he is
affronted by men who think as they do, it
is an insult only to be wiped out by fratri-
cide, while the Monarch looks on with
complacency at the reduction in the number
and the thinning of the hot blood of his
domestic troublers and of foreign insolents.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Lex Talionis.
The last and best example of lex talionis
comes from Queensland. At 8 a.m. one day last
week two blacks and one white could be observed
dangling- from a beam erected in a remote corner
of the Brisbane gaol. Murder was the European’s
crime, rape the aboriginals’. James M’Mahon, a
lad of 19, savage with drink, kicked his paramour,
*• German Ada,” to death. One of the “ niggers”
was but 16 when he committed the offence for
which he suffered death. He was known as
“Jango,” and was] a lithe intelligent boy, but with
no more conception of European ethics than of the
atomic theory. His life, although short, was pro-
bably long enough to convince him that his
gravest error—the one to which most of his ill-luck
could be traced—was the being born in Queens-
land. He may have been present whan the native
police crept naked through the scrub, and poured
point-blank volleys into his tribe, just to teach
them civilization and savagery could not exist side
by side. Jango’s life was possibly like that of
many black boys we have known. One day,
perhaps, a detachment of “ native police,” serving
it may have been under the command of someone
appointed by the very men who sent him
to the hangman, arrived at the camp of his tribe,
mad® in his father’s chest half-a-dozen holes, into
which you could put your fist, with Snider bullets.
Then they outraged and cut the throat of his
mother, knocked out the brains of his brothers
and sisters, who \» ere either too old or too young
for their purposes, and turned their horses’ heads
MR. RUSSELL BARTON, M.P. FOR BOURKE.


IfSSSlSSSSiillffSi
XX JJ 01iDEKN XX
XX PITT STREET. £ x
AX •
XX SPRING. £ x
XX Prints, Sateens, Zephyr Cloths, in great vv
yv w variety.
XX W e are now opening a groat number y y
XX ot ?^? es of.these goods in all prices y|
XX commencing at’ g
SATEEN, tiK>d-
ZEPHYR, 7&.d.
printed piques, 7^d.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
OATMEAL
BORAX
CARBOLIC
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xx
XX
xx
SOAPS.
glycerine
HONEY
J3KOWN WINDSOR XX
, , SPRING.
Surahs (washing), Is. lid., small and yy
large checks. Plain, 3s. lid., verv yy
cheap J XX
China Silks, for the Summer, at 7U a yv
yard 73 a xx
XX Black Silk, at Is. lid., splendid value
XX Broche Silks, 2s. lid.,’upwards g
XX Ll ch h cap r ° 8 Gl ' aiD ’ l8 ‘ 9d ” marvcl <ously g
XX Velveteens and Velvets, all great bar- yy
A A. ifftlDS. It A.
XX xx
XX DRESS DEPARTMENT. yy
yy r a n e showing now a grand lot of xx
XX Light Cashmeres in all shades, some yy
XX very serviceable check stull, and a large X Y
yy <l of Nun's Veiling, in all colour xx
XX This is a very important department yy
XX our establishment, and we can assure Yy
XX the public that our goods compare most Yv
XX favourably with other houses. 1 v v
XX AA
XX LACE DEPARTMENT. yv
XX Wo are now opening a grand lot of xy
XX of all makes, ex Sikh, Essex. & c rV
XX these goods are indeed tho It A
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
VALUE "yet shown by "us. woiiirf yy
sibl'c 0 y ° Ur lnspection as early as pos- XX
HOSIERY DEPARTMENT. v y
We are now opening in t his department y y
THE GRANDEST LOT 1 yv
of
HOSIERY
ever placed on tho market.
XX
XX
XX
r. °« r r ®sident London partner, Mr. E Xx
XX C. Hordern, and our staff of buyers Xy
XX have made a supreme effort— and have yy
XX indeed excelled themselves—this seusotf xx
XX and we teel confidence in stating that yy
if you come in and Inspect the goods in Y y
any ot our departments you will see yy
that we have this year placed on r goods yy
at MUCH BELOW FORMER PRICES? XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
INSPECT OUR WINDOWS. Thev
are the most attractive in Sydnev In
them you will see *
MANY BEAUTIFUL and USEFUL
ARTICLES;
but if you do not see just ivhat you re-
quire, come in and ask for it.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xx
xx
XX
STRAWS. STRAWS. STRAWS yy
NEW SHAPES in HATS & BONNETS XY
Fantine, Rowena, Devereux, Oli- YY
vette, Cymbla, Silverdale, Nassau, yy
Piedmont, Gipsy Queen, Josephine, XX
Alma viva, Onslow, Gwendoline. XX
Princess, Daisy, Duchess, Coquette, XX
Ot-C., CvCt yy
"asasafip™"**""" If
Cherries, Apricots, Plums, Grapes, XX
Strawberries, Apples, Peaches, Cur- Xy
rants, Nectarines, Mulberries, Vio- XY
lets, Ivy, Orange blossom. Forget- XX
me-nots, Geraniums, Cowslips. Pop- XX
pies, Mignonette, Sunflowers, &c. XX
NEW MANTLES and COSTUMES. XX
Print Costumes, 3s. 6d. to 31s. XX
Sateen Costumes, 13s. 6d, to 43s yy
A GRAND ASSORTMENT of light XX
check Newmarket and Langtry XX
Jackets, lour-m-hand, Silk Dust XX
Coats In ladies’ and children’s XX
Lace Capes, Braid Capes, Chenille XX
Capes, Broche and Ottoman XX
Capes XX
The New, Waterproof Dust Coats, XX
in all colours. xx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
NEW PARACHUTES.
Zennella Parachutes, Is. (id. to 3s. 6d. XX
Twilled Silk, 3s. lid. to 16s. 6d. XX
A grand assortment of all Lace XX
Parachutes, 10s. 6d. XX
Black Satin Parachutes, 5s. lid. to XX
15s. hd. XX
Black Broche, 12s. 6d. XX
Black Moire Parachutes, trimmed XX
lace, 16s. 6d. XX
Childrens’ parachutes, Is., Is. 3d., Is. XX
lid., 3s. 6d., 3s. 6d. XX
XX
HORDERN BROTHERS, XX
311 Pltt-street, XX
near King-street. _XX
PERSONS resident in the country XX
districts should send us their ad- XX
dresses if they want any
PATTERNS and PRICES
ot what is
FASHIONABLE
in Sydney.
Letters answered by return post.
DON’T FORGET
to
ADDRESS
HORDERN BROTHERS,
311, Pitt-street.
near tram.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
AA AA
X xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xx
x xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xx
New South Wales Racing Com-
pany’s Consultations
ON
MELBOURNE CUP.
50,000 Shares at 10s. per^hare—£35,000.
1st Horse £4000 I Starters
2nd ,, ... .. 3000 I 7vr ~" uoriam ... * J
3rd „ ... .V, 10001
Starters
Non-Starters ••
For 149 Horses.,, ' £10,®®
117 Prize Gifts.—266 Prizes in all.
1 Prize Gift
£4000
.. .. 3000
„ ..1000
at £500 1000
„ at 350 1000
117 Prize Gifts
8 Prize Gifts.
30 - ar t £1 S
S :: 2 SJ?
... ftf- 000
only, addressed tothe
th Court, Elizabeth-fitreei.
Application by Letter
tary, No. 2 Wentworth
or Box 355, G .P.O., Sydney.
All parties are ntgyaested to forward Draft*'
Orders, or Cheques ; if Cash, to register letter*. _
Results sent to Shareholders and published in
Leading Weekly Papers of the Colonies.
The Drawing will take place before a Com® 11
of Shareholders.- w r[JRNHA bD.
Will positively close November 3rd.
The Rates of Subscription f» The Bulletin
are—For one year, 34s.; half-year, 13s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—In advance.
The Advertising Kates are 5s. per inch;
special positions In the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertlsem mis 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on contiguous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 36 consecutive insertions,
15 per cent.: For 53 consecutive insertions, 35 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
ho made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above is Rum made hoi
and taken at bod-time.
t$T PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6s. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Dejartneut,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET,
where you can obtain for
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome of all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISK Y,
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNBLISH WHISKY,
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street, Sydney.
towards civilization. One of these hired mur-
derers carried before him on the saddle a little
weeping black boy. That was Jango. The in-
spector commanding the detachment had perhaps
promised a friend that he would “ get him a boy ”
when next he “dispersed ” any niggers; and so he
kept Jango instead of grabbing him by the legs,
and swinging him against a cedar tree and smash-
ing his skull to jelly. Or, perhaps Billy, the black
trooper from the Percy River, had been promised
a saddle by a goldfields publican in exchange for a
black boy not exceeding four or five years of age;
and got leave from the inspector to bring Jango
into the township. Then Jango was kept at the
shanty, and made drunk “ for a lark.” Brutal
N.Q. ruffians, sweepings of the colonies, the scum
of the earth, poured rum down his throat,
and the dance-room echoed with their drunken
laughter as he, parrot-like, lisped the blasphemies
which they had poured into his ears. Then they
sat him down cross-legged beside the table while
they took their meals, and made him dispute with
the dogs, as he had done in the camp of his mur-
dered parents, for lumps of meat. And he ate as
he had oaten when in the wilderness his people
killed a white man’s horse or bullock—ho gorged
himself until he fell into so dead a slumber that,
when the rum-soaked white savages of the shanty
opened his eyes and drew straws across them, he
was too fast asleep to feel. Then in the morning
he would awake when the sun rose, and
crawl over to his owner, the man who had bought
him with a saddle, and rouse him up, and peer at
him with his big black eyes and claw for more
meat. By and bye, they would teach him to ride;
and when he became seven, he would be sent to
find the horses at daylight; and when, instead of
rounding up the horses, ho climbed a tree and cut
out a sugar-bag, he would be held by his great
shock-head of woolly hair and flogged with a whip
till the blood ran off his back. Then, perhaps, he
was sent to Keppel Bay with cattle, and ran wild.
Heaven knows whether or not this was Jango’s
story. It is pretty well the story of more than
one black man who has been hanged by a Christian
Government. M‘Mahon, the white, whom the
executioner’s sense of restheticism induced him
to hang between the two blacks, was only nine-
teen years of ago, and was cradled in crime.
His father, once a steady, hard-working mechanic,
took to drink, and one day drove a knife several
inches into his wife's shoulder. Five years penal
servitude was the reward. Mother and sister found
their way to the bottle, and ultimately to the
streets; the youngest boy to the reformatory, the
eldest to the gallows. The mother was in the
Brisbane hospital when she heard of her first-born’s
crime and sentence. She screamed for mercy, and
fell back dead. But the worst phase of this ghastly
story remains. The father of the murdered woman
obtained an order for admission to witness the
execution, and stood unpityingly by to see the ter-
rible agony of his daughter's murderer, before the
tension of the rope relieved the tension of the
mind. In its details, and its finale, the story i > the
most horrifying that has come under our notice for
years.
A Saturnine Quotation.
The “ eminent ’’—that is to say, eminent in clumsi-
ness-contributor to the Evening News disported
himself in the columns of that journal again on
Saturday last. On this occasion he was even more
conservative than on the previous one. He did
not merely Ignore the public, as before ; he re-
stricted his address “ad Senatores Superiores”—
which, wc may explain, is dog-Latin for “members
of the Upper House.” The “ Eminent ” on this
occasion has excelled himself in clumsiness. Ho
introduces his essay with the following quotation
from “ Titus Andronlcus ” :—
“Why, Lords, what wrongs are these ? Was ever
seen
An Emperor of Rome thus overborne,
Troubled, confronted thus; and for the extent
Of legal justice us’d In such contempt ?
My Lords, you know, as do the mightful gods,
However these disturbers of our peace
Buzz in the people’s ears, there nought hath pass’d
But even with law against the wilful sons
Of old Andronicus.’
We accept the quotation with enthusiasm, and
only regret that the Eminent did not give the
continuation, thus:—
“ Sweet scrolls to fly about the streets of Rome!
What’s this; but libelling against the Senate
And blazoning our injustice everywhere ?”
It is a speech by Saturninus, Emperor of Rome,
who complains of a contempt of his court, due to
complaints and accusations “ buzzed In the people’s
ears ” by one Titus, a distinguished and deserving
Roman. Under the government of Saturninus—
a weak but vindictive tyrant, notoriously abused
by a designing woman — Titus had merely been
subjected to the trifling wrongs of having his
right hand cut off, his daughter ravished, and his
two sons murdered by enemies alike to him and to
the public welfare. And, as Saturninus correctly
remarked in the quotation, the sons had suffered
quite in accordance with the law—as ho inter-
preted it. Titus endeavoured to acquaint the
general public with his wrongs, by publishing his
grievance. This was the contempt of court against
which Saturninus exclaims; and he, like other dig-
nitaries, evidently considered that a wrong ceased
to be an injury when it was inflicted by due pro-
cess of law, and with the sanction of himself.
Since our “eminent” friend has referred us to
“ Titus Andronlcus” tor quotations, and to Satur-
ninus as a moral authority, we may indulge our-
selves by transcribing another quotation from the
same source, and spoken by that character, even
more apposite, we venture to think, than the one
h© so ingeniously selected. Thus:—
Saturninus: “Patricians, draw your swords,
and sheath them not
Till Saturninus be Romo’s Emperor.
Andronicus, would thou wert shipped to Hell
Rather than rob me of the people’s hearts.”
“A Gross Indignity.”
li’ any evidence were wanting to demonstrate that
Sir George W. Allen is a very small-minded man.
an abundant supply has been furnished since the
majority of the members of the Assembly declared
that Mr. Barton was the better man of the two tor
the position of Speaker. The action of the ex-
member for the Glebe, in declining to act as a
member of the Elections Committee—for which
position he was nominated by the new Speaker—
was such as one would expect from an unthink-
ing schoolboy who had been subjected to gome
trifling slight. If, during seven years of office
as Speaker, the attention of Sir George was not
wholly devoted alternately to admiration of the
frills with which his gown was decorated, and to
thoughts about obstreperous Buchanan or order-
violating M‘Elhone —any movement on the part
of whom used apparently to have the effect of
completely unstringing his nerves—he must have
gained some knowledge of Parliamentary matters;
and he could have had no better means of giving
the public, whom he was elected to serve, the
benefit of that knowledge than by acting as a
member of the Elections and Qualifications Com-
mittee. But it pleased him to take a different view
of the position. By his conduct, he said, in effect,
“As you have declined to accept the benefit of
my knowledge at the moderate equivalent of
£1300 a year, of which money (as I am already
plethorically rich) I have no earthly need, I
shall take care to keep my knowledge to myself.”
During the session, Sir George Allen only
spoke once, and that on a question in which, oddly
enough, he may be said to have been personally
interested. After this herculean labour in the in-
terests of the public, he sent in his resignation;
and informed the electors of the Glebe that his
reason for resigning was that he proposed to take
a trip to England, and therefore would not be able
to give his “attention to the important questions
which would come before the Assembly.” Either
this excuse was a concoction, or Sir George was
determined to put off his “ proposed” trip, as we
now hoar a howl of indignation—which it is un-
reasonable to suppose had not its origin in the
mind of the worthy knight,—because the Govern-
ment did not see fit to offer him a seat
in the Upper House. If Sir George’s
movements would not permit of his being in at.
tendance in the Assembly, he certainly could not
attend as a member of the Upper House. In the
face of his statement, would not the Government,
have acted foolishly if they had offered him a
position in the Council ? The chances are that, if
he had been offered a seat there, he would have—
as he did in the case of the nomination to the
Elections Committee—contemptuously declined it.
Yet, because he was not offered it, a “ gross in-
dignity has been cast upon him and Parliament I”
So says Sir John Robertson, who seems to have
assumed the role of champion of, or apologist for,
fallen or falling politicians. On many grounds the
conduct of the Government is to bo commended,
but on none more than that they have shown they
are not prepared to resuscitate snuff ed-out so-called
politicians, and to darken the gloom of the Upper
House by drafting them thither. If any further
murmur of discontent is heard from Sir George
or from his friends respecting him, the public will
find it difficult to escape the conclusion that it is
either the loss of his £1300 a year, or of the glory
surrounding the post of Speaker, which is troubling
him so much. Alas I if Sir George had continued
to hold the Speakership, and if ’Enery Parker
had remained in office, then, perhaps, an admiring
world might ere now have been koo-tooing to Sir
George Wigram Allen, Baronet, and all the rest
of it.
Saw it is. Even the sound of the voice of
Angus Mackay, M.L.A., is a breach of the peace.
Malone, who recently defeated Aplitt,
has beaten Ewin, of Grafton, at Glen Innes, in the
running high jump and the running long leap.
Malone s high .lump was 5ft. Sin, and his running-
long leap 31ft. lOin.
Mrs, Charles Bright followed her huss-
hand’s footsteps till they led her to the bottom of
the stairs leading to the “ platform.” There she
tarried till, encouraged by his success, and her
own consciousness of sincerity, she boldly ascended
and made her bow as a oubllc speaker from the
stage of the Gaiety Theatre on Sunday night last.
It was to champion the cause of “The emancipa-
tion of the human intellect from the thraldom of
creeds ” that she made her ddbut. haying no claim
to talent or oratorical gifts, she offers her “terrible
earnestness ” as the raison d'etre of her appearance.
Her experience is the experience of all who have
boldly thought out for themselves the great ques-
tions to which contending creeds have offered such
various and unsatisfactory solutions. To Spiri-
tualism she attributes most of her mental en-
lightenment. While we do not quite coincide with
ber views on this subject, we can applaud her
honesty of purpose in stepping from the ranks at
the risk of misrepresentation and calumny to give
a reason for the faith which is in her. It her suc-
cess be proportioned to the nervous earnestness
and demonstrable truths of her opening address,
she will have no cause to complain.
Billiousness, drowsiness, jaundice and
Rheumatism, Hop Bitters removes easly. See.
Some Totals.
A GOULBURN STORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Down the street of the Beautiful City—down the
gas-lit and ghastly-lit street:
Past the shops that sold temperance fizz—past the
“ slop” at the end of his beat,
Who lingered to paralyse nurse-girls with many a
horse-power vow,
Strode an eminent Total Abstainer, with gloom on
his two-storey brow.
From the heart of a flush amethystine far up in the
lessening sky
Came the stars one by one upon duty, each looking
with pitying eye
On the nebulous gas-lamps of Goulburn, and mark-
ing the broad-litten bars
Of the pubs, formed the general conclusion that
these were the earth’s guiding-stars.
But the Total Abstainer mused not how a wonder
of power and love
Held the shining tiaras of star-lamps for ever and
ever above.
He paused not to think how slow mons have
rounded a world that at first
Was an atom —oh, no, all that ailed him just then
was unspeakable Thirst.
So he strode (we've a shadowy notion we made
this remark once before)
Down the street, looking furtively in at each wide-
open public-house door:
Every bar was with votaries crammed, and the
Total, of course, couldn’t think
Of entering where men were assembled, and plank-
ing the coin for a drink.
And he wobbled along down to Payten’s, and stood
by the door in the shade,
And hungered tor goldon-hued liquors, out-poured
by a golden-haired maid
(Whom we love—but no odds)—then went onward,
and paused wrapped about by the night,
To gloat with an envious pang on a man undeniably
tight.
And he strode (as you know) further on, and the
more ho continued to stride
The hotter he grew in his coppers, the worse in his
little inside,
Till at last he pulled up at a bar, where, the coast
at the time seeming clear,
He entered, and said to the boss: “ A deep sinker
of Wollondele beer.”
It was served, and he muzzled the pewter, and bore
it away to a chair
In a corner, and got in position, and raised his
right arm in the air,
When allot a sudden a step sounded sharp, drawing
near from the street.
And he hurriedly hid the quart-pot ’neath the chair
in the shade of his feet;
And, grabbing the very last Bulletin, held it up
over his face
Till a chance came (o swallow his quart, and clear
hurriedly out of the place.
But it came not. He saw, to his horror, the party
who eniered was one
High up in the Lodge, and that moment he thought
bimeeit wholly undone.
And the other knew him, though he spoke not,
nor showed it by movement or sign,
But walked to the bar and demanded “ a small
drop of green ginger wine.”
And the first Total hearing distinctly the innocent
words that he said,
Dropped the Bulletin over his pewter, and laced
to the darkness, and fled.
Then the second Abstainer shrieked wildly: “Hold,
hold, man, (or Heaven’s sake hold.
I wouldn’t drink ginger wine neat for a fortune of
silver and gold!
I never intended to drink it—the whole thing was
only a dodge:
Don’t you know that the fellow who sat in that
chair is with me in the Lodge ?
“Of course he’s a genuine fellow, and wouldn’t for
kingdoms toueh malt;
But he’d split upon me in a moment; he’s got one
particular fault,
"Which is babbling: it’s lucky I twigged him the
moment I saw him in here.
Give me quickly a full choke-bore pewter of foam-
crested Wollondale beer.”
So the second Abstainer drew back, and expanded
his buff-coloured gills,
And swallowed the draught at a breath, saying:
“ That’s on to Mr. Fitz-Dills.
If he asks, say I called in to see you on business
much more than to drink.
Of course you’re aware how it is”—and he shed, as
he vanished, a wink.
Prom the ring of the outermost dimness the other
Abstainer drew near
As he witnessed the Brother’s ceparture, and made
one grand swoop for his beer.
And he found it concealed still, and safe, and he
said as he bolted it down
“ I reckon old Slabs was done that time, and done
most consumedly brown.
Say, landlord, d’ye know him — that fellow that
went out the door only now?
I wouldn't have him catch me here, drinking this,
not for hardly a thou.
Hr s a babbler—although he's in earnest—you
couldn't make him touch a drop.
But wouldn't he blab it abroad if he’d only cauyht
me on Pie hop ?”


yiCTORIA RACING CLUB.
SPRING MEETING.
Derby November 3.
Melbourne Cup 6.
Oaks „ 8.
Steeplechase „ 10.
Return Tickets from Sydney, available
for two months, first class £5 6 6
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL, CUDAL.
To Travelling Companies, Lecturers, &c.
TO LET, the above large and well-appointed
Hall. Sitting accommodation for over 200
people; splendid piano, scenery, &c. Terms
reasonable. Apply to
H. HURLEY TORR,
Hon. Secretary,
School of Arts, Cuflal.
THE NEW LAND BILL.
READF FOR SALE—"A Bill to regulate
the Alienation and Management of Crown
Lands and for other purposes.” Price, Is. 6d.; by
Post, Is. 9d.
THOS. RICHARDS,
Government Printer.
Government Printing Office,
Sydney, 13th October, 188S.
JOHN SANDS’
ART GALLERY,
374 GEORGE STREET.
Next Post Office.
fTIHE first Spring EXHIBITION of OIL and
X WATER-COLOUR PAINTINQ8, by eminent
English, Continental, and Colonial Artists, is NOW
OPEN, as above, from 10 till 6.
ADMISSION FREE.
GARTON’S HOTEL,
SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
wiJ) flnd SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. a. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Teleptiooe flp, 345,
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
The Adelaide butchers had their picnic at
Paradise. “ Which ?” Why, the only one men are
ever likely to see who put what they do into Ade-
laide sausages — A Victorian bankrupt attributed
the all-round unworthiness of his evidence to the
)ate railway accident. It appears to have shaken
all the truth out of him... .Goldsborough and Co.’s
dividend 10 per cent.; prospects as good as ever...
The Norfolk Island letter to the Herald is all
made up of “missionary, whale, and slavery”—
otherwise called “labour ”.. Oliver Beer committed
for stealing £800 worth of silks, &c., from his em-
ployers, Prince, Ogg and Co., Sydney. He pawned
the goods in detail James Bibby, the “cham-
pion porridge-eater,” who is under remand on
a charge of stealing jewellery, will now
be able to make hominy-eating matches
Another 19ft. saurian killed at Raglan Creek, Q.
Ten bullets were put into him before ho succumbed.
The state of his teeth shows him to have been a
regular old warrior... N.Z. is still forging ahead.
Australia produced a hairless horse a few years
ago : Maoriland is now to the fore with a horse
“ possessing a well-developed moustache ” — a
physical peculiarity hitherto confined to asses....
The Mudgee Independent recommends a poultice
of snake-skin for snake-bite. A hair of the dog,
&c. &c—At Waiwera Springs, N.Z. Gentleman
(from Sydney) to Sydney lady: “May I have the
pleasure of your hand for the next dance ?” Lady:
“I am sorry to say you made these boots so tight
that I can hardly walk, let alone dance.”....The
enterprising brothers Hodel have brought out the
Northern Standard (Townsville) as a daily. The
Standard is an ably edited paper, which says what
it means in plain Saxon. We are sure it will succeed.
.. A man writes to the Louth Liberal saying that,
recently, whilst cooking his Sunday dinner of
roast “gohanna ” and stewed grubs, lie saw a calf
having two heads—one white and one red—coming
towards him ploughing up the sand and bellowing
loud enough to shake down the trees. It had
“ eight legs and eight tails and two bodies, but the
latter were joined together.” This was unfortu-
nate; because if they had not been joined there
would have been two distinct calves, having four
caudal appendages each, and ox-tail soup would
now bo at a discount — Poor old Balaam, it seems,
hag left the land of Moab, and now lives in the
Clarendon district, Queensland. He’s in trouble,
as usual. Thus the local paper: “The tent of J.
Balaam was cut to pieces by hailstones, some of
them as big as cricket balls. Balaam and his son
would undoubtedly have been killed had they not
covered.themselves with a mattress.” Here is a
new cause of death—from, as usual, the Evening
News. A man has. it is reported, died at Mud-
f ee * N.S.W., of inflammation of the lungs—“and,
It is believed, his father was a baronet.”
About a mile from Clarence Town there is a moun-
tain of iron. Assay gives 63 per cent, of pure
®etal. A surveyor working in the vicinity had
his compass pointing every way but the right one.
■■■ ■ An Inverell man woke u p with a rustling under
"is head. A hammer being handy (pos ibly
as a domestic peace-maker), he brought it
down with some emphasis on the rustle. In the
worning he found there was a death-adder the
oss in Australia—A Bowen squatter telegraphed
his manager: “Don’t keep anymore cattle for
Queensland. Am told that the best market is now
, ew Guinea. Take a mob of fats over at once to
at place. It’s only a drive of seven miles over
0 sands at low tide.” — A large and appreciative
dudience assembled at Port Douglas to see fair
P a .\ between J. M‘Carthy, editor of the Port
°flOLAs Times, and one Peter Middlemiss, fol-
Q ) ' v 'ng the calling of Dan O’Connor. It arose over
ul for 6s. 6d., but whether due by the butcher
for mental aliment extracted from the Times, or
by the editor for rump-steak, we are left in igno-
rance was a “ masher” named Elliott whom
the Dunedin barmaid horsewhipped. A friend of
his, Thomas Ireland, has just been fined 40s. for
assaulting Cohen, a reporter, the assumed author
of a ‘ par." on the matter. Elliott pere, the dude’s
lather, presided on the bench when Ireland toed
the line. Thus the ends of justice were attained....
John Albion Smith, the Victorian postal thief, has
been found guilty of “receiving.” He received from
John Albion Smith. . .There are nearly 1000 horses
at present engaged in packing between Cairns and
Herberton. .. Mr. L. F. Sachs lias started ostrich
farming on his Hermit Park estate, Townsville.
The two Kojunup (W.A.) murderers are to be
hanged.. .Haynes, of Perth (W.A.), was trans-
ported to Australia for cutting his English sweet-
heart s throat. Love, however, had too strong a
hold on Haynes, and so he took up with another
girl—a servant of Governor Hampton’s—and, in
spite of all the Governor’s warnings, the pair
married. On Saturday week, Mr. Haynes battered
in his wife sskull, and she died on Monday morning.
Mr. H aynes, it is to bo hoped, will now remain a
widower for some time — The most curious case
of piety we have heard of for some time is that of
a man who was recently charged at Wagga with
stealing a number of prayer and hymn books.
There is so much competition nowadays in salva-
tionshops that most of us will soon have to follow
the culprit s example, or trust to luck for our
future—It is a common saying that people can’t
live on air, but those who say it never had to try.
Listen to the Rum:—“There was a peculiar soupi-
ness yesterday about the atmosphere of the old
butter market known as the Central Police
Court.” Tasmania rejoices in a new paper,
the Independent, which is carried on by
a co-operative coterie. That Grubb demon-
stration was a heaven-sent morsel to country cor-
respondents, worn with writing- the same things
over in six different ways to make up their
columns A bank “ masher” kissing a girl, or a
tom-cat crossing the street to court a pussy
opposite, are circumstances that gladden an
editor’s mind when Parliament is not sitting in
Tasmania—Thus the Darling Screamer, allud-
ing to the Western Bugle or Liberty: “The
journalist who quotes from another and pretends
to give the words verbatim etlltteraUm, yet wil-
fully and obviously misquotes and misrepresents,
is too moan for anything. A travelling tinker
could afford to spit on him in disdain." To this
the Bugle responds: “ The third-rate buffoon who
attempts to edit the Darling Screamer has again
essayed to say something funny anent one or two
paragraphs in the Bugle of Liberty.” And yet
people say N.S. Wales is but slowly progressing....
Ever since the seamen’s missionary was garotted
in the Tarpeian way, what has been puzzling the
rejected of a certain constituency is which side of
the Circular Quay Mr. Tarpee lives.
* • *
The Burmese custom of eating various
parts of the bodies of desperate criminals is com-
mon in China. Baskets of bread are sometimes
thrust under the neck of a decapitated marauder
to “soak.” The heart and liver form the real
bonne bouehc — San Francisco has 107 cases of
leprosy, all traceable, the doctors say, to the smok-
ing of cigarettes made by Chinamen.... At a recent
meeting of the Zoedone Company, which was
started with such a flzz, the directors couldn’t de-
clare a dividend, but recommended the sharehold-
ers, as a means of bettering the affairs of the
company, each to order a case of zoedone weekly
for his own consumption. The chairman was
waited lor for hours, outside, by a crowd of inves-
tors ; but he was safely got away by a back entrance,
disguised in a poke bonnet and a green veil.
Mr. Eussell Barton.
Mr. Russel Barton, whose portrait wo give this
week, was born in 1830, at Penge, near London,
being the eldest of thirteen children—ten of whom
settled in the colonies. He arrived lu Adelaide in
October, 1839, with his parents, who had to experi-
ence all the hardships of colonizing life, at a time
when success was indeed difficult to win. In the
following year, 1840, Mr. Barton found himself on
a cattle station, ostensibly getting coloni >1 experi-
ence, but in reality earning his own living, and
hero he remained two years. Then followed three
years on a sheep station .mder an old Highland
shepherd who now counts his bales of wool by the
thousand, and all off purchased land. About this
t ,m e the Burra Hurra Copper Mine started, and
Mr. Barton found himself engaged as carrier for
the company bet ween the mine and Port Adelaide.
About the end of 1845 he made his first trip from
Sydney to Adelaide, and from this until 1848 he
was alternately overlanding (as it was then
termed) or engag d in various ways in
connection with the mine. In his Dips
overland. Mr. Barton met with one or two very
narrow escapes, and bears the marks of more than
one spear received in encounters with the blacks
? Darii ng and Murray Rivers. Prom 1848 to
18ol, he was principally engaged as road contractor
and carrying. In 1851, like many others, Mr.
Barton went to the Victorian gold-fields, where he
remained J 0 - 1 tw0 years, returning to Adelaide in
18.>3. In 1855. having purchased an estate of 250
acres near Adelaide, he married Miss.I. M’Davie,
by whom he has eleven children, all living. A series
of ill successes in contracting work culminated in
his house, Together with everything it contained,
being' burned to the ground, his wile and children
barely escaping with their lives. By the way—no
insurance. Shortly after this ho went to Victoria,
and was for a short time connected with the pro-
>notion of a railway from Sandhurst to Faglehawk.
This falling through, ho returned to Adelaide, re-
ceiving the appointment of manager of Tallin
station. In 1864 he entered into arrangement
with the late Mr. H. Reid to take 10,000 sheep from
the .North of Adelaide, and stock and manage two
runs—Tarcoon and Mooculta—on the Bogan River,
°ne of them adjoining the town of Bourke, which
at that time was in its infancy. Hero he soon be-
came one of the most enterprising men of the dis-
trict, taking into partnership a Mr. Topham, a
wool-sorter of experience and great energy, to-
gether with a thorough knowledge of the busi-
ness. They together inaugurated the system
travelling wool scouring plants, visiting
station after station and scouring the wool
at the nearest available locality, and which
has been found exceedingly well adapted to
the requirements of the district; to this (nisiness
was soon added follmongery, butchering, and
soap-making. After the g.eat drought which fol-
lowed the Hood of 18(54, culminating in the greatest
depression ever experienced in squatting pursuits,
in 18158, Mr. Barton pure rinsed Mooculta, the run
upon which he lived, and which still remains his
property. Shortly afterwards, in connection with
his brother, Mr. w. (J. Barton, he purchased Bun-
dengabba and Wiliam, on thet fullaburra and Paroo
rivers. In 1874, having visited the Cobar mine, he
bought an interest, and was the Hrst to predict its
splendid future. The following year, feeling the
enects of hard work and considerable mental
anxiety, be was ordered by his medical adviser to
take a trip to England and recruit his strength,
and left Bourke with that intention ; but, on
arriving in Sydney, found that the great Cobar
mine had got into very bad straits, and was fast
becoming hopelessly Involved, with an enormous
overdraft at the bank (for which he was per-
sonally responsible), and with the mining man-
after. who reported that the mine was nearly
worked out, things certainly looked bad enough.
However, here bis mining knowledge, gained
in early days, stood to him in good need, for
after a careful inspection of the mine, he, with
his usual energy, threw himself into the breach,
faking lus seat upon the board of directors, he was
appointed managing director, and, with the able
assistance of Mr. James Dunstan—who was ap-
pointed captain—he soon inaugurated a new sys-
tem of working, and succeeded in making the
mine what it is now, supporting, directly and
indirectly, a population of about four thousand
souls, giving an impetus to trade and settlement
that would have taken half a century in the
ordinary course of things. Shortly alter this
he purchased the Nymagee Copper Mine, which
later on was floated into a public company, and is
only second to the great Cobar. This town also
contains about two thousand people. For the last
four years he has, in connection with two other
gentlemen, been Interesting himself in Introducing
hydraulic mining in the Kiandra district. At the
present tune two mines, the Kiandra and
the Eight-mile, are in lull swing’ removing
and treating equal to a ton of earth pet*
minute, or say 1440 tons per day, the work:
going on day and night, and from which
exceedingly satisfactory results are confidently
anticipated. He is also connected with many other
mines, being a director of no less than fourteen,
eleven of which he is chairman. He is also director
of several other companies. At the first election
after the passing of the new Electoral Act, he was
returned ns the first Member for the Bourke dis-
trict, and again, at the late election, he was re-
turned at the head of the poll by a large majority.
During the last Parliament, he was a constant sup-
Eorter of the late Government, believing they
ad the confidence of the country, and the power
to do good work, but must be considered a
thoroughly independent member, attached to no
party, invariably supporting those measures which,
in his opinion, he believes to be for the good of the
country. [Our portrait is from a photo, by Free-
man and Co, George-street.J
The lllawarra Railway.
No. I.—Mr. Stuart’s Map.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
The best received speech Harry M‘Quade
fays that he ever made to his constituents was:
Gentlemen, come inside and take a drink.”
David Syme, of Melbourne, has, it is said,
played a trump card, but lost the trick. He is
alleged to have offered Judge Higinbotham £5000 a
year to edit the Age. On the Judge’s acceptance of
this tempting bait, the Argus and Telegraph were
of course to go smash. But George Higinbotham
doosn t see it. The placid little man who began
life In Melbourne as a reporter, and rose step by
step till he ascended the Supreme Court Bench, is
scarcely likely to except the editorial conduct of
a paper which helped to kill his own brother.
I he Duke of Teck has, we hear, several
times offered his services to Francis Joseph for
the Austrian Army, but they have been invari-
ably declined. Once was during the Schleswlg-
Holstem war. And, in Egypt, Sir Garnet Wolseley
would only give him command over the mail bags.
We wonder what’s the matter I If it’s what we
think, he would be just the man to take charge of
Adington Portergaffs. There’s no stupid
fighting here, and before a gun goes off vou have
due warning. The most the Queen would have to
fear for His Serene Highness, would be the dinner-
party sherry.
Lord Garmoyle, who is to marry the Savoy
star. Miss Fortescue, has an Income of only £1500 a
year, probably a good deal less than she received
as salary. But he has expectations, which, more-
°^ e r» are not clouded, as his family are now recon-
oiled to the match, and Miss Fortescue was asked
to visit Lord and Lady Cairns in Scotland. She is a
lady by breeding, and first went on the stage in
Les Cloches d3 Corneville” chorus, to help to
support her mother. She afterwards appeared in
rmif ai j d was a great favourite of W. S.
Gilbert s. So far from the late Lord Chancellor
objecting to the marriage, Miss Fortescue has
received a letter from his lordship, in which he
says he is sure that any lady who would make such
a sacrifice as to go on the stage to support her
widowed mother would make a good wife for his
son. As a matter of fact there is no real disparity.
Lord Qarmoyle’s grandfather was a butler.
Marwood, England’s hangman, always re-
ceived his victim with a cordial grasp of the hand,
and smilingly said: “ I am very glad to see you.
It seems to be a cold day, but I have hopes that we
shall have pleasanter weather to-morrow. By the
way, it is understood that Favorite will win the
Derby. Allow me to place this around your
throat. You appear to be shivering. This is a
pimple under the left ear. I think you should
have it attended to. It might turn out to be a
cancer. You will excuse me now, I am sure. I
have a little matter outside to attend to, and will
return to you presently. In other words, I will
see you later.” And then the trap was sprung.
Moncure D. Conway has been “inter-
viewed,” on behalf of the Melbourne Herald,
and gave his views, off hand, upon such little
matters as “The Colonies,” “Monarchy,” “The
Presbytery,” &c., &o., but he declined to commit
himself to an opinion on Victorian politics. When
we remember that Moncure has given his opinion
upon pretty well everything else in heaven and
earth, this makes it look as though Victorian
politics are in a tangled condition. “ Our re-
porter” sat upon Moncure terribly with such
questions as; ‘‘Is that all you have to say on that
subject?” or “Have you anything further to
add?” and, taken altogether, the “interview”
cannot be pronounced a success—except as a
pantomime.
Sir Samuel Wilson seems to have “ struck
it” with the swells at home; and he must have told
some resplendent stories (to put it gently) to the
younger aristocrats about Australia. Lord Willlam
Neville, for one, is coming out to acquire colonial
experience on one of Sir SamueJ’s stations. We
wonder what will Lord William think of it when
he wakes up one morning in a pool of water with
his head in his boots and the Are put out by the
rain, no matches to light it, the damper nearly
done, the track lost, and the bones of a previous
traveller bleaching close by on an ant-hill I Never
mind: this is adventure—this is romance. At any
rate, Lord William need never lack a place to sleep
in while there is a barrel in our back yard.
In fear and trembling the people of Bal-
larat learned that Major Smith was selling his
house in Sturt-street, and was about to take up his
residence in Melbourne. For two nights lamenta-
tions loaded the air, and grief squeezed Itself into
every crevice from the clouds to the bottom of
the deepest shaft. There were the posters on the
dead walls—he was selling off, he was going away.
Few spectacles are so painful as that of the parting
of a great man from the people that love him—it
may be for years and it may be for ever. The
philosopher has to sit down and ask himself—What
would humanity be without its tears, and where
would Ballarat be without its humanity? Does
net such noble sensitiveness merit a reward even
in this life ? Do not these tears deserve an im-
mediate recognition, and the walls demand the
assuagement of a divine intercession ? And the
philosopher was at once answered. Major Smith
writes to the Courier that he is only flitting
across the street.
When Professor Haselmayer was in N.Z.,
a few years ago, he was called as a witness in a law-
suit, and was cross-examined by little Weston, the
tiniest bit of legal learning in the colony, and one
of the smartest, who thought ho saw his way to
take a “ rise ” out of the Professor. Weston, how-
ever, succeeded “the wrong way up,” thus—
Lawyer: “You are a conjurer, are you not?”
Professor: “Yes, I do a leedle bit of conjuring
now and then.” Lawyer: “Well, now, Professor,
show us a trick or two.” (Laughter.) Professor:
“ Veil, this not exactly the place; besides, I makes
a scharge. But I vlll oblige you this von time. If
you viU dake off your vig, and get your learned
vrlend, as you gall him, to grease your head veil, I
viU den dry to swallow you whole; and afterwards
you will be a gpot leedle boy, and not drubble me
any more.” (Roars of laughter.) “ Silence in the
Coort 1” Collapse of little Weston. Exit Professor
bowing and smiling.
“Thatgraceful writer, Mr. C. Lyne, of the
S. M. Herald, so late our welcome guest, has said
that, ‘ in its surroundings Tumut can hold its
own for attractiveness with any place in the
colony.’ ” This is from the Tumut and Adelonq
Times, and from it we see that Charley has been
up to his larks as usual. During the recent Minis-
terial tour, Charles was made quite a hero of, and
he made a point, when returning 1 thanks for the
Press, of being eloquent about the “ beautiful
district” which at the time was groaning beneath
the weight of his bluchers. He got this gag from
Billy Hoskins, who, on the night of his ben., used
every time to say that he trusted he would “ lay
his bones” in this lovely spot. Mr. Lyne is such a
hero now that we expect, did anything happen to
him—a shoulder-of-mutton bone stick in his
throat, for instance—there would be a deuce of a
rush after specimens of him. Having this in view,
we shall, next time we meet Charles, take the
liberty of snipping off an eye-brow.
Madame Braun, at whose house that giddy
octogenarian sinner, Prince Gortchakoff, died, is
still living at Baden Baden, in a house purchased
for her by the Prince two years ago. Madame, who
was long an actress at Berlin, used to visit Baden
before she made the acquaintance of Gortchakoff,
whose death still remains a great mystery. He him-
self believed that he was being poisoned, for he
said so again and again during his illness, and
Madame herself feels no doubt on the subject.
Unfortunately the stomach of the deceased Prince
was sent to a local chemist for analysis, and he
failing to find any traces of poison, made away
with several essential parts. The consequence
was that when an official inquiry was ordered by
Government, and the analysis was made by the
medical faculty of Freiburg University, the latter
had nothing to go upon. Meanwhile, the eldest
son of Gortchakoff has inherited nearly the whole
of his fortune, and has declined to make further
provision for Madame Braun.
“ The majesty of the law ” will soon be an
obsolete phrase. The law is losing its majesty, and
becoming gay and sprightly. Judge Williams, of
Victoria, leads the revolution. This volatile crea-
ture goes on circuit on a bicycle. Well—
The good old times may soon come back,
With all the good old zeal;
Law then was mounted on the rack,
And now it’s on the wheel.
If this frivolous spirit spreads, we may soon expect
to see learned counsel turning somersaults on their
way to court, bailiffs walking in on their hands,
grave judges pronouncing sentence of death with
the black cap cocked jauntily on one side of their
heads, and the condemned criminal dancing out of
court with a skipping rope. We should not wonder
at any of these things happening. We should, in
fact, like to see them come to pass. We have been
so long accustomed to solemnity without sense,
that we think we could do without the solemnity
for a while.
It was on the 18th August that Professor
Denton, who was travelling with Captain Armit,
of the Argus exploring party, first became ill.
They were travelling over fearfully mountainous
country, among natives ef New Guinea who had
never before seen whit© men, but were friendly.
They could not stop, and climbing over Mount
Belford, 3600 feet high, Professor Denton became
completely exhausted by fever. The others helped
him along, but going down heavy rain soaked all
through, and it was very cold. A party went
ahead and brought a hammock from the village,
on which Denton was carried into Loohivago. On
the 24th Belford took the fever, and on the 26th
Captain Armit was attacked. Thus crippled in
strength, the party, of whom only one man was
sound, travelled slowly and painfully to Berl-
fabadi, and camped in a ruined hut. At half-past
, Denton had convulsive fits, and died in five
minutes. It was pouring with rain, and Armit and
Belford passed a fearful night with Denton’s dead
body between them. He was buried next morn-
ing at 7.
The Queen has definitely refused to receive
the Duke of Marlborough, so his Grace is a bit
crumpled up for the present. However, he
manages to enjoy a pretty good time at Blenheim,
where he entertains largely; only when the county
families come to stay, the husbands grow pensive
on “ little parties ” being made up to go to places
whither they are not bidden, and the manner in
which the matrons cluck around their olive-
branches is a caution. When the Duke dances with
a county magnate’s wife twice in succession, the
county magnate at once becomes gloomy, not to
say pensive. It is understood that the Duke’s
banishment from Court is only a temporary pro-
ceeding. Of course, when the next peer and
peeress go wrong, he will be able to slide in. We
are unable to authoritatively inform our readers
whether this proceeding on the part of Her
Majesty with reference to his Grace the Duke of
Marlborough is endorsed by Field-Marshal H.R.H.
the Prince of Wales, K.G., K.P., G.C.B., &c. But
we should think so.
Another distinguished voyageur has sailed
back into the haven of Victorian politics, and the
first important duty which the public, ever appre-
ciative of sterling abilities and ever mindful of the
direction of a hero’s enthusiasms, placed before
him on his arrival was a banquet. The hero was
A. T. Clark. M.L.A., and the rendezvous of the
hilarious hero-worshippers was the classic city of
Wllllamstown. The duty was performed the other
day. The hero went through it with all his cus-
tomary dexterity and power. He demonstrated
that foreign lands had not enervated, and alien
intercourse had not dimmed, the grand sweep of
his white right hand as it flashed the knife in
the gaslight, and the radiant smile of the beaming
face as it went over the juicy platter. He had
been on English railroads, he said; he had waded
through the spilled bitterness of English politics; he
had climbed the ruggedest heights of the irregular
exclusiveness of English social life: but the powers
he had cultivated in the sunny land of Victoria
were still with him, vigorous as ever, uncon- i
sciously assertive as ever, splendidly distinctive
and distinguishing as ever—Tie could still eat politi-
cal peas with his knife. In this age of ratting, of
time-serving and Inconsistency, it Is something to
find a Victorian politician true to the mandates of
an ancient regime.
Twenty-fly e or thirty years ago, “Auld
Macnell,” as he was called, had charge of the ferry
over the Clutha, on the road between Dunedin
and Invercargill. The ferry consisted of a small
boat capable for carrying live or six passengers,
and the charge of crossing was half-a-crown. The
ancient ferryman, who lived in the bush on the
south side of the river, did not care about crossing
over specially for one passenger, or even two, and
ho used to allow them to accumulate on the other
side till their number was worth going for. As
the nearest house or shanty on that side was at
Tokomairiro, twenty miles away, and as he him-
self had the reputation of keeping the best
whisky (at one shilling a nobbier) on the
road, there was no tear of them turning back.
Mac had a garden in the bush, where he cultivated
‘ taties ” and onions and apples; and, when a
traveller arrived on the other side, he could see
him through the scrub and be himself unseen.
“ Cooee, cooee, eooee,” from the traveller for an
hour at a stretch, but no response. “Cooee,
cooee,” again, with aggravating persistency. “ Ay,
ay, cooee awa’ there,” Mac would say to himself;
dom ye, d’ye think I’m sic a fule as cross for ae
half-croon ? Cooee awa’ there; ye’ll want yer
supper or I gang for ye, and that’ll be anither
half-croon; ay, an’ maybe yer bed, and that will be
anither, an’ ye’ll want a gude drap o’ whusky to
clear yer thrapnle efter a’ that roupin.” Towards
evening, probably, half-a-dozen pioneers would be
cooeeing in chorus, and the old man would then
emerge from the bush and cross over for them.
The traveller who had waited all day would pro-
bably greet him with a regular cataract of pro-
fanity for having kept him waiting so long. ‘Ay,
mon, ye’ve been waitin’ a whiley have ye ?” the
old man would say, with a (pawky twinkle of the
eyes. “But, mon, it was a’ ye’r ain faut. What for
in a’ the warl’ did ye no cooee for me ? Ye shcod
aye mind to cooee whan ye’r on this side o’ the
watter.”
The other day, Henry Thomas, of Heath-
cote stepped into the Bank of Victoria, in Mel-
bourne, and, after offering a few brief remarks,
put a revolver to his head and fired three shots,
considerably to the damage of the ceiling, and
slightly to the damage of his skull. Poor Thomas I
We knew him well, Horatio. In the old days,
when Heathcote was only M‘Tvor, before the
Town Hall was commenced (it isn’t finished yet),
before the ’possums reluctantly withdrew from
the main street, or the gore of rival editors im-
brued it, we knew him. Everybody knew Harry
Thomas. He was a poet. Not in the common
acceptation of the word —not a poet like Byron or
Milton or Dante; but a natural born Christian won-
der and terror, an original Colossus of laboured in-
anity and towering rot, focussed in the most
barren and uphill rhymes that ever desolated
a borough. Nothing was sacred from the all-per-
vading eye of his genius. He would write with
equal callousness of the butcher of those times, or
the borough councillor of the later dispensation.
And that was hardly the worst of it. When he was
gently advised that his contribution was crowded
out by a report of a banquet to one of the main-
tenance men, or an exciting account of the rescue
of the Mayor’s pig from an old shaft in the princi-
pal square, he would take his MS. away with him,
and at the next concert or readings, though there
were a hundred innocent ratepayers present, his
treat revenge would have stomach for them all.
o he came to be feared and wondered at, and
instead of seeking to hide his hideous moral infir-
mity from men’s eyes, he flaunted it abroad. Ha
asserts that his political views made the manager
of the bank look with disfavour upon his over-
draft; but he can’t tell us. More probably the
manager had read his “Stanzas to a Sick Steer;”
or, worse still, had heard Mm read his great poem
on “The New Lock-up,” or his “Lines to J.S.”
Anyhow, Harry went to Melbourne to see about
it, and took his little revolver with him: hence the
present trouble. Once again, poor Harry Thomas!
If he had only come to Sydney, where genius is
understood, he would probably now be Professor
of Literature, or something of that sort, in-
stead of being fixed as awkwardly as he is. There
seems to be no danger of his wound pro /ing fatal.
He had a poet’s skull.
Duncan Francis Campbell Moodie has
arrived back in Adelaide from Natal. He had
intended to make Natal his home, but, once in the
bosom of his friends, changed his mind. Those
who have read “ David Copperfleld” will probably
remember Mrs. Micawber’s description of their
reception, when on leaving the King’s Bench
prison they visited their relations at Plymouth.
Here it is—not that we vouch for the application:
“‘Yes,’ said Mrs. Micawber. ‘It is truly pain-
ful to contemplate mankind in such an aspect,
Master Copperfleld, but our reception was, deci-
dedly, cool. There is no doubt about it. In fact,
the branch of my family which is settled in Ply-
mouth became quite personal to Mr. Micawber,
before we had been there a week.’
‘ Under such circumstances, what could a man
of Mr. Micawber’s spirit do? But one obvious
course was left. To borrow of that branch of my
family the money to return to London, and to
return at any sacrifice.’ ” Moodie was a pretty big
figure in a small world at the time he “ horse-
whipped ” A. T. Clark, of Melbourne, for “ malign-
ing ” a helpless and absent lady (Her Majesty, to
wit) ; but when he, some nights after, took the
Athenaeum, and, trading on his notoriety, tried to
lecture, and only succeeded in drawing less than
400,000 people, he dropped down, so to speak, from
the top rung of the ladder of fame. D. C. F. is,
perhaps, as well known in Adelaide as Garden
Honey is here. Moodie’s paper, the Portonian
has long been dead. It was a feeble little rag of
eight pages, supplemented by a villainous lithe
graph. His rival in the comic line was the
Lantern, and when he attacked Frank Skefflngton
by drawing him “ in a tight place,” Frank used to
retort by maliciously and without reason limnins-
Moodie flaying the back of a hired help with a
bludgeon. Several times Carroll has gone about
for days looking for Moodie with a brick, and very
frequently Moodie has expended a whole week
looking for Carroll with a copper-stick; but, some
how, they never managed to encounter one
another, and thus bloodshed was happily averted t
When Moodie’s Portonian went “bif” he wrote
a book on the Zulus; and, this work not turning
out a “go,” was announced to lecture for Pul
ton’s diorama at the Town Hall. We attended this
Intellectual performance, but, as the lime-light
wouldn’t work, and all the pictures were unwell
Moodie could not be said to have much of a show’
Anyhow, his dissertation on the Zulu War was
received with derision, and the pictures with con
tumely, so the performance came to an abrunt
termination amidst considerable excitement in
appearance Moodie is a stout, red-faced party
with grizzled whiskers and a helmet. In Summer
he invariably dresses in blue serge, and carries in
his hand the tail of an Asiatic ass, mounted on a
deer’s foot, which he uses as a fly exterminator
He is known in Adelaide by the sobriquet
“Blue Blood.” H 11
They are going, it seems, to make Sir
Garnet Wolseley a field-marshal. England onlv
possesses three of these illustrious officers at the
Present time—the Duke of Cambridge, the Prince
of Wales (whose military experience is generally
admitted, and whose intrepid valour is equally
recognised), and Lord Strathnairn, a dashing war
rior, who entered the army at the “ pigtail ” period
who (there being no slaughter to be accom-
plished) passes his time being pushed about Bath
in a kind of bin on wheels, and discussing the
affairs of the nation with snuffy old dowagers
And while on the subject of the defenders of the
nation, we must set down with sorrow the fant
that H.R.H. the Duke of Albany has the gout in
his hands, and has been taken away to recruit at
the German waters. This, too, at a time when
H.R.H. the Duke of Connaught has gone to India
to take charge of the Bengal division. Of course, we
as loyal subjects, have pecks of confidence in
these royal and gallant officers—especially In Leo-
pold, who can now, we learn (such is the march of
science), be put together by his personal attendant
under a couple of hours. This is a good thing-
for, once on the gory field, they could keep him
well behind the bread-cart until he was fixed up,
and, having surreptitiously abstracted the cart-
ridges from his revolver, lest he should devastate
the British army, hoist him up on his snorting
charger, and let him caper about until he fell off.
We don’t hear much, this reminds us, of the
Duchess of Albany. Let us hope, though, that her
gout will always lie in Leopold’s direction! She
can, in any case, rest pretty easy on the subject of
war’s alarms. If ever (an event which, we trust,
will be long delayed) “ home they bring her
warrior dead,” It won’t be from the battle-field.
More likely from the cookshop.
William Marwood, the executioner, has
paid the debt of Nature. Only a week or two back
we were referring to his visit to the Houses of
Parliament, and now we have news of his decease.
He is said to have succumbed to an attack of
nfiammation of the lungs, aggravated by a com-
plication of disorders; but, probably, the depress-
ing influence of a “debate’^in the House of Peers
was too much for him. He was a man of iron
nerve, and from the nature of his profession
accustomed to harrowing scenes; but we fear that
the spectacle of England’s hereditary legislators
struggling with their speeches gave a mortal shock
to his constitution. It is not generally known that
Marwood (although not a member of the Melbourne
Presbytery) was a true Christian, and previous to
an execution devoutly asked a blessing upon his
labours, not forgetting to “put a word in” for the
poor wretch he was about to dispatch.
MAKWOOD’S MISTAKE.
WITH MORAL.
Marwood’s loft this world—alack I
Every one must die—
Let us cloth ourselves in black,
Also, let us cry.
Recollect in him we lose
One whose busy brain
First devised the “ running-noose,”
(Pipe your eyes again.)
H® was gentle, mild, and meek
(Stifle all your sobs);
Sweetly was he wont to speak
Of his little “jobs.”
Prom his most poetic task
Never did he shirk,
And with reverent voice would ask
Blessings on his work.
Hale he was and full of fire
Till—oh, cruel Fate!
He, imbued with strange desire.
Went to that “ debate.”
Heard the dull remarks that flowed
From each dreary Peer;
Heard, and sought his own abode,
Feeling sick and queer.
Sharp congestion of the lungs
Settled Marwood soon—
Brought about by twaddling tongues
Talking out of tune.
Thus died one who did his best
For his fellow-men;
May he now enjoy the rest
He deserves—Amen!
• • • ,
Messrs George Dibbs and George Rei“
have attended so many banquets of late, that tney
are familiarly known among their little knife-a nu '
fork circles as Gorge Dibbs and Gorge Beia
Another divorce case on the tapis. A Gy
publican petitioner, a Charters Towers
gentleman the co-respondent. The lady is
to be buxom and handsome, and frail-■ ■ • jv?.
form of idiocy in Melbourne. From the the aaii.
gaper:— “Harris—On the 15th October, at-’
hapel-street, Windsor, the wife of Ellis Bar.
watchmaker, of a son. May God bless
pretty heart is his parents’ wish, and hope ne
prosper in this world.”....Mr. Cooper, or u*
Cooper, has died at Mooroopna (Vic.) hospiuu,
destitute circumstances, of cancer. About ,
occupied the country between the Goulburu
Campaspe for pastoral purposes.... As the rem
of the late Mr. Charles Hayward, senior, the
MISS FOBTESCUE.
CAPTAIN ARMIT, NEW GUINEA EXPLORER.
DUKE OF CONNAUGHT.


No article, imported or otherwise, which ia
alleged to possess similar Ingredients to Wolfm*
Schnapps, is aught else than a pernicious humb U( r
Satrap 110 wm ° e ffUarded accordingly andghm*
resident of Port Macquarie, and also the oldest
member of the local Anglican Church, approached
the church gates on Sept. 30 the bell suddenly
stopped tolling: it soon became evident that It had
cracked. It was cast in the year 1826, and the
following year was placed in the church. The co-
incidence is a strange one, the bell having been
tolled for 50 years. ...An Indian black, calling him-
self “Dr.’ Allah Gapen, has been fined £5 at
AVodonga for illegally using medical titles. He
got £2 10s. from a male resident for the following
prescription for sandy blight: “Take a chicken,
cut the foot, and with the blood thus obtained mix
certain powders, and apply to the eyes.” This is
almost up to the prescribing of the N.S.W. Chinese
doctor who choked his patient to death by trying to
make him swallow cats eyes and sugar for cataract.
.Providence has been propitious to Geo. Lansell
the Sandhurst mining millionaire, in granting a
son to bis old age. The news reached the Austral-
asian by cable. To George himself the event will
be more welcome than the winning of the Colman
and Tacchi encroachment case....Captain Armlt’s
interpreter told Bia-irlcau, chief of the Sugairee
(New Guinea), that he (Armlt) never told a lie. The
chief has been laid up since ...That eccentric
musical genius, Mr. Charles Laseelles, who was
here with Madame Anna Bishop, also with the
Alice May opera troupe, lately died in Prance.
Mr. Laseelles, it will be remembered, was a very
clever caricaturist.. .Mr. Cass, M.L.A., has caused
the first sheet to be pulled of the Nyngan Times
and states that he is going to make that journal
“second only to the Dubbo Dispatch,” which
appears to be that gentleman’s beau ideal of a
journal. Mr.' Cass has all our good wishes, of
course; and we should be the more sanguine of
nis success had we some glimmering as to where
Nyngan is situated. A journal “ only second to
the Dubbo Dispatch ” should command, if not
admiration, at least respect... .Mr. James Ashcroft
(late of the Otago Daily Times) has now assumed
editorial charge of the Dunedin Morning Herald.
. .This is what one of Bobby Byrne’s northern ene-
mies gets off about him “ There is a journalist
In Brisbane whose front name is Edgar. He ha
discarded this aristocratic Anglo-Saxon patronym c
ever since a wag anagrammed it into ‘ Ed. Rag
His paper is called Fig-arrow, but Broad-arro
would have been a more suitable term. It reac s
so much as if it belonged to the Government..
The N.S.W. Land Bill has been rather more than
surprise to Mr. Oliver—the Parliamentary drafts
man who put it together—that much-sufferin
official, at the 63rd revision by the Ministers, hav
ing been given up by his medical attendant, an
ordered to go away on sick-leave as his last an
only hope. But the draftsman stuck to his bil
and was last seen dictating the 113th revision t
two short hand reporters, with Dr. F at th
bedside feeling Bis pulse, and a hospital nurs
keeping him alive by egg-flip and isinglass., q. w
Kusden is revising his “History of New Zealand,
and quite poohppohs the idea of Mr. Bryce or an
one else convicting him of libel for exposing th )
infamous treatment of the natives Mr R J
Allwood, son of Canon A11 wood, of Sydney’ now
edits the Northern Daily Standard, Townsville
Mr. A. Beere has done a fine bust of Mr. B.
Montefiore, which is on view at the Art Gallery
We have never seen Mr. M., but we wer
much struck with the likeness. There is
evidently, a good head to this Beere
Thfiate Mr. Edward Hordern’s will proved unde
£69,000.... A few days ago, in St. Vincent’s Hospi
tal, (bed one of the pioneers of the far Darling dis
trlejt Mr. w. Y. Clarke. Over 20 years ago, clos
on the heels of the Burke and Wills expedition, h
went to live where the first settlers were flghtin
their way against hardships, blackfellows an
drought. For some time he lived in Louth, unti
his health broke, and he came to Sydney Mr
CJarke was an American... .The Tablet, the Bug
lish R.C. organ, says that preparations are being
v? de the relatives of the late Archblsho
y aughan, to despatch his remains to Sydney, fo
interment in St Mary’s Cathedral....Mysterlou
telegram from Newcastle to the Alfred:-” It i
reported that yesterday, the next of the kin to the
Marquis of Bute, travelled Northward in connec
turn with land speculations in the North, and in
tihe Queensland interior.” Later information wiJ
probably go to show, that the individual was
well-dressed railway ganger....A telegram to ai
evening contemporary, says that “the brother o
a popular Governor, was fined at the Police Court
for using strong language.” Now, had it been the
popular Governor’s cook, the Nooze would, pro
b |*h>y. il 0< i Rll y , hlve given his name, but have
added, that the language was something beyond
description. Thus the world wags.
A good story is told, that a fast young
ady, determined to be noticed by Bismarck at a
ball, approached him and asked if he would fasten
her bracelet—winch she had purposely loosened
nut the man of iron beckoned up a young alde-de-
eamp, and said: “ My sight is hardly good enough
out I can see you are not so handsome as your
“ether. if Th e correspondent of a London paper
fays that the saddest spectacle he ever witnessed
with a spoilt child of ephemeral celebrity was the
departure from King’s Cross Station of Mrs. Lang-
fw’ivln 8t fv, a * ter h ,! r return from the States plus
i»o,(XK), the result of her starring tour. There
weren t half-a-dozen people present. Mrs. Langtry
looked careworn and seemed disappointed in the
ahsence of an ovation. Among the scanty gather -
big was a venerable old gentleman with long white
bair -and ciearly of the clerical profession. It was
SrLV l h hcr ’* the - Dean of Jersey. “ Father,” said the
great beauty, in a sad and subdued tone, " I feared
«na 7i? uld com ®.” He barely kissed her,
and then stiffly raising his hat, bowed, and
at once left before the train started... .Within
ouoh u ten years 30 Californians hav© died,
™.° whom was worth more than £1,000,000, and
several of them worth many millions.... When
hoof n * r i. died ’ a . Herman paper wrote:—“ France
Si ier .? 1 P st J lm P lacable enemy.” Paris Figaro
S™?,:* And so has music.”....The father of
wUnL, tbe Phoem x Park informer, was a Crown
and hfs iL*‘SP?J' rh ? re a man was hanged at Naas,
thn i 11 ? grandfather in a case where a man suffered
waR kinTn 6 Penalty at Mullingar. Carey’s mother
ron(iw Wn the Dublin police authorities as a
vonstant and reliable source of information
vnnn<* matter of thief-capture. Carey, as a
VPTO 8 *-J2 ,lan ’ appeared to have struck out a
S. differ ® nt Jiue, and to his familiars con
Et y in P n r °^ d an °7 er weeulng ardour in the
Lord& , of ri 118 eonntry from a foreign yoke....
JSJar 1 ** Berestord is noted for giving curious
WaL „ ag0 he gave the Princess of
«ies a sandy bull-dog, anathematised by every
(1X11U lillVIi JL Illot
«vn!' erc, i has ever 8een him, and he once sent
alive .hride, as a wedding present, a set of tour
er salt-cellars In the shape of cradles, with pap
spoons to accompany them 10 000 neonle
Thumb’s funeral, four-fifths of
them being women and girls. The cornse was
in a black broadcloth suit, a wh?tl
nwiJuo ing spread over the face, and the Knights
£“nthe coffln U Th IVe m WOr f d ’ and other emblems
recently 8 pifblishpd ' h< i many criticisms on his
-Th? Sap of 8 ChK '
very bri F ht , and is making rapid and I
satisfactory progress with his studies Archibald
frying in r AmeWe« nly “ odera te success for Henry
irvmg in America—Alexander Dumas is writino-
which an 1 lJe2?«m«t 8Ubi^ ,t ° f the natural claims
nlateon thi + T n^ a9 upon his father. .The
scribed with th^™t£ h ®?? unt de Chambord isin-
sennea witn the words, “ Henrv the Fifth hv thn
Grace of God King of France Ld Navarre ” and
neonfp b> I th „ e F rac e of God nor by the
K^V^^™U Or HSB. EIl0t,,i “ Danle ‘
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
The Rev. Dr. Gilchrist is still explaining.
Since Mrs. Hampson 44 revived” in Svd-
has been^formed? Associating ”
Newcastle has been writing
again—and building all kinds of splen-
things on a foundation of sand. His last
S n I s that Scienc ® is wholly in har-
mnife P / h 0t r 8 4 ant reli *lon. Of course, the
nnnnL h^' that Roman Catholicism is totally
sC linlT 1106 ' Transubstantiatlon, for in-
fnmimTmntqb? 8^ a , llow ed. But there is also the
Pimple of common Christianity—
Wfifth^ C K athol J x T alike ~ the Resurrection.
t otfi£o 0d (S s il op ii f Newcastle say how Science
harmonises with the theory of the Resurrection ?
The new Denominational organ, the
f? ™ NDEP endent of Australasia, is soon
“i/j’nrst on an astonished community. Then there
will be piety. Man is naturally a religious animal,
and all he wants to make his noblest attribute stick
Straight out in front of him is the hebdomodal
tickling of a clerical journalist. There will be a
lot of clerical journalists on the Federal, &c.
The Victorian Independent is to digest on to it
its whole supply of luminous leader-writers.
Hitherto, these labourers in the vineyard of paste
and scissors have not been appreciated. Pray as
high as they might, curse as deep as they could,
their journal had a habit of falling with a plash
that indicated none of the line solid qualities that
were breathed into it. This was humiliating. A
big journal is, therefore, determined on, and its
boom will be heard from New Guinea to Tasmania.
It will blaze up there, it will blaze down there; it
will blaze wherever it goes. It will be all blazes.
But it is to start at Sydney. Melbourne is to give
the brains, but Sydney is to do the printing and
publishing. Way ? Postage stamps, postage
stamps I The Melbourne divines will “do” the
Melbourne Post Office out of the stamps. Halle-
lujah I
Lecturing in Maryborough, Q., on “infi-
delity” is the Rev. E. C. Spicer’s latest vagary. He
pointed out the absurdity of the belief, which ap-
pears so be gaining ground daily, that “a bad con-
science” was merely a synonym for “indigestion.”
Judging by the resume of the lecture in the W. B.
News, his demolition of infidelity was on a par
with his demonstration of the soundness of Chris-
tianity. Of the latter, it is only necessary to say
that it was entirely negative. The well trodden
ground of Christianity’s instrumentality in eradi-
cating the abominations of old Rome was gone
over again. We would suggest that this be read in
conjunction with the 15th and 16th chapters of
Gibbon. Mr. Spicer’s definition of Agnostics, as
people who “ trusted in luck and professed to know
nothing but what they saw,” has a novelty about
it which, in the language of a country reporter,
is quite refreshing. The Agnostics, we know,
would sooner trust in anything than in luck—in
fact, they deny that such a thing exists, asserting
that what is ordinarily called “chance,” or “luck,
is merely an effect, of whose cause we are Ignorant.
Judging a belief by its fruits is no proof of the
truth or falsehood of that belief. We smile at the
anthropomorphic beings with whom the Greeks
peopled Olympus—beings whose private lives were
scandalously loose; and yet, consider the glorious
civilization that grew up while they held sway I
If Mr. Spicer attributes to Christianity the pro-
gress and enlightenment of to-day, he might
go a step farther, and tell us to what
the thousand years’ stagnation and cruelty
sized, fairly stout, and reasonably old. It would
be pretty hard to conceive her in a state of spiri-
tual existence. She had fine big 1 hands and feet,
and a waist such as Moncure Conway admires.
She wore a black dress, white lace collar, crimson
flower, and gold brooch and earrings. We must be
exact in these items, for the other ladies present
would lit In with the previous description. Well
Mr - Brown sat down and told the medium to
spread. But the medium, with her eyelids glued
together, .wobbled her head and didn’t spread.
Friends, said Mr. Brown, “the spirit who con-
trols the medium wants to be soothed. Can anv
of you sing ? If I could sing, I’d burst into melody
at once. Then throe or four people began
There s a land that is clearer than day,” and a
dozen others began another line at the same time,
and everyone pitched on his own key, and travelled
"9®? “gjf owntlme. That seemed to soothe the
®P iri t- Why it didn’t kill him is a wonder. Then
Mrs. Sterry got up, and, with her eyes closed,
delivered a “trance” address. She can speak
can Mrs. Sterry. Nearly as well as Mrs!
Hampson, too. Her style and manner were
remarkably good, and she strung sentences
together with what must be called ability. But
her matter well, spirits aren’t made of matter.
T hey are immaterial. So was what Mrs. Sterry said.
The control ” didn’t like the churches, but for no
new reason, and that was about all the Intelligence
vouchsafed, t hen Mr. Brown said “ Friends, you
can now ask the medium any question you please,”
One long thin man, with a rosy nose, got up and
asked “ If I become a Spiritualist shall I have to
Pray? “My friend,” replied the medium, “you
shall. But, remember, prayer is not made of words:
it is acts. When you eat, you pray; when you
drink, you pray.” That satisfied the long thin man
and he determined that as soon as he got out he
would do some more praying. Then a red-headed
man got up, and said “ I consider myself better
than a Chinaman. Now, if God be just, why did he
make us what we are ?” “My friend,” replied the
medium, I say God is just, and I uphold the
justice of God, and your unbelief springs from
considering that you are better than a Chinaman
That is a great error, friend.” The red-headed
man gravitated to his seat with such velocity that
he indented the form. Then the lady sat down and
began to unfasten her eyelids. She had to rub
them for a long time and smear them with spittle
before she got them pliable. Let anyone try to
keep the eyes fast closed for the better part of an
hour, as a medium must do, while in a state of
fro® the fifth to the fifteenth century was due.
Those substitutes for Christianity ( i.e ., Agnostl-
Comtelsm, Stuart Mill-ism, and a number of
others) did not want any written revelation.” It
is just here that Mr. Spicer makes a slight error,
those isms” would very much like a written
revelation —provided any two men could agree as
to what it meant. But when no two persons can
agree regarding the purport of a Divine message,
it is not to be wondered at that bad men like Vol-
v^ lre v,^ om r J > py ne » Ingersoll, and Bradlaugh, assert,
like Mrs. Prigg, that "there never was no Mrs.
| Harris.. Mr. Spicer says that “free thought and
free living are all but synonymous.” It is not easy
I to agree with this, or dissent from it, until we know
what he means by “ free living.” If it means an
aptitude for living well at the expense of the com-
munity; for enjoying carriages, fine houses, and
hue company, without paying for them; for mak-
ing shameful proposals to the wives or daughters
ot one s best friends, like some of our serious fel-
iow-citizens; or reducing hundreds to beggary,
bke the ostensibly “ Christian ” directors of the
Glasgow Bank, then the free thinkers would have
to throw up the sponge.
Mrs. Sterry has found her way into the spirit
worid; and if you want to go after her, your best
plan is to take her advice. She gives advice, of
course. For the small charge of sixpence you can
gaze on her, and question her in the Horticultural
Hall, Melbourne. Sunday night is the time she’s
under control.” We do not know what she is
like or how she carries on when she is not under
control, and we don’t much care. Something made
us wend our way there last Sunday evening. Prom
her remarks, it would seem that a good spirit made
us wend. We doubted this at the time. We know
we had pur mind set on going to Brighton; but,
just at the last minute, she took it into her head to
go to St.Kildawith someone else. Our wending
to Mrs. Sterry had something to do with that;
an >i P° sslbl .y tho lady was chaffing when she
called our spirit a good one. But Mrs. Sterry
consoled us for a while. When we went in, Mr.
J.H. Brown, who distils spirits or something, was
talking away to about 60 people, and Mrs. Sterry
was sitting on a chair beside him, wagging her
head and clasping her hands. We looked round:
we telt cheei-ful. We realised that there were
still plenty ot fools in the world, and that we were
not the only one. Our heads would hardly be
called ornaments in a phrenological gallery. If
the roof had fallen and squashed us, none but cre-
ditors would have wept. Mrs. Sterry is middle-
mental excitement and with strong lights burning
round, and he’ll know something of Mrs. Sterry’s
trouble. However, she’ll not have It to do again
for a week.
• • •
Mr. Thomas Cook, of Turanville, Soone,
has given £1000 to the new C.E. Church there, the
foundation-stone of which was laid by Mrs. Cook
on the 18th. . ..It Is currently stated that, prior to
the break in the drought, a Western squatter
wrote Mrs. Hampson a polite note engaging to pay
jj? r -£10,000 if she prayed for and obtained rain on
his stations—Mrs. Hampson lays the foundation-
stone of the new Y.M.C.a. hall, Bathurst and Pitt
streets, next Saturday afternoon The Cumbeb-
land Mercury says: “There Is no man In the
whole Roman priesthood more loveable, more
truly venerable than the good Benedictine Father,
Archpriest Sheehy,” who, it is said, will suc-
ceed the late Most Reverend Dr. Vaughan.
This Is so much bung A captain of the
Salvation Army, addressing a large audience
In Christchurch, N.Z., lately, said that those
who died unconverted would go to hell,
where they would be kept frizzling for ever
like fat on a fire,” The poor fool frothed at the
mouth, and looked as if he believed it all. The
crowd veiled with laughter .. .The blessings of the
Dunedin police are being showered on the heads
of the Salvation Army in that city. Constables
who have performed their day’s duty are ordered
out to be on hand to quell any disturbance that
may arise : and, on several occasions of late,
policemen have been on duty from this cause for
17 hours at a stretch.
* * *
A Dissenter having applied for admission
to the Carnarvon College, Wales, the Reverend
Principal replied: “No, none but Churchmen can
PP received as pupils. You are not a member of
the Church of Christ at all, but merely a member
of the Congregational Society.” This is the nearest
approach to M’Eachernlsm yet achieved in the old
country....A local preacher named Dawson re-
cently cleared out from Grimsby (Eng.) for Spain,
owing £40,000. On the day before ne absconded he
preached with much pathos from the text:—" Sor-
most °f ah for the words which he spake
that they shall see his face no more. And they
accompanied him unto the ship.” Mr. Dawson has
evidently a fine sense of humour A rector in
Wales was lately suspended for drunkenness. It
subsequently appeared that he had been unjustly
treated. He was rector of Llanlyfaan-with-Llan-
fairwathafarneithaf, and in a weak moment he
tried to pronounce the word within hearing of
some of his parishioners.
SOMETHING LIKE THIS.
DOMESTIC ECONOMY.
. McShoddy (who has lately sold his market garden as suburban allotments): Ere'
Manar, wot r you a-dom of, playin’ on that py-anner. D’ye know it cost me fiffv
pound. Why, you’ll be settin’ Sown on the new sofy, next ty
Biddy’s Bushranger.
(A “BULLETIN” BALLAD.)
’Twas even in the city,
.The sky was calm and clear,
w ,£en Biddy stepp’d round to the pub.
To get her supper-beer.
A pint, with bread and cheese, she took,
And thought It not a sin
To whisper to the landlord “Put
A daah of porter in.”
There sat within that public bar—
A hat slouched o’er nis eyes—
Op® whom the p’lice reports would call
A man of medium size.”
There in the gloom the stranger sat,
Nor spake nor moved did he;
A bit or cheese was In his hand,
A pewter on his knee.
The servant-maid went tripping out,
A nd what then did h e do
But drain his pewter, bolt his cheese,
And quickly go out too I
Along that suburb street they went,
,, _ And, as she reached the gate—f
Pause!” cried he, in terrific tones,
“Pause, girl, ere ’tls too late!”
She paused, and trembling held the jug,
And uttered a low cry;
She saw his face was pale and wild,
And bloodshot was his eye!
Coal-black his clothes, and his moustache
Was as the raven’s wing;
And lo. the moon above revealed
His shoes were tied with string.
He led her down the fence— 4 * I am
■ A bushranger,” he said;
They’re on my track, and there’s a price
Of millions on my head 1
A hunted tiger eke am I.”
(He glanced around just here
And then drank off abstractedly
The scared girl’s pint of beer.)
“ Food and concealment I must have,"
He cried, “for many days;
And then the gems 1*11 give you shall
The world daze with their rays.
Then, once more free, on silent nights
My steed—a wild Ukraine—
Shall carry me to victory
Across the starry plain.
“Crack, goes my rifle, plop! the ball’s
Hedged in a trooper’s crown ;
A bang of the revolver, and
A dusky tracker’s down 1
No bank can me withstand,” he said
in tones so fierce, yet glib;—
r ou d take more time to crack a nut.
Than I to track a crib.”
She hid that hero brave, who seemed
All valour and all soul,
Down in the garden where they kept
The year’s supply of coal.
And, day by day, she fed him un-
it was his playful way
To whisper Valour did require
It s 44 little eight” a day.
And how she loved him I Of a night
When all was quiet and calm,
She’d listen to his gory tales,
Her head upon his arm.
She’d see him dash down mountains steep:
Stop coaches at full speed—
(And,l°, behold he quaffed a pint
With each intrepid deed.)
One night they sat upon the coals.
In sweet commune, that twain,
when, io, behold, a mystic light
Did down upon them rain.
A head all helmeted looked in.
Then Biddy cried “Oh sir,
Lead me away, but do not harm
My gallant bushranger!”
Down on his knees her hero went.
And sobbing he did cry
I do assure you, constable.
No bushranger am I,
No soul have I ’bove shaving-soap.
And, sir, it is the case,
I am a barber, who is now
A barber eut of place.
44 1 never bailed a mall coach up,
I never robbed a bank,
My sole ambition, p’liceman. is
To fill my little tank.
I ne’er quick o’er the starry plain
Did prick my Ukraine steed;
It was a little fiction for
A shake-down and a feed.”
He got three long months 44 on the vag •”
She saw him mount the van; ’
And now ’tls whispered round about
The constable’s the man.
Yet Biddy, in her heart of hearts.
Strives to forget, in vain,
The picture of her bushranger
Who pricked it o’er the plain.


TDa.© 23©llaTtol© ZB’va.g'g'ies I
NO SECOND CHEAP HOUSE.
22 and 24 CLAKENCE STREET, ONLY,
FOR GOOD GOODS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS & WAGGONETTES,
BACKBOARD WAGGONS, AND EVERY STYLE OF BUGGY.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Clarence-street.
*3
V [RTUTIS GLORIA MERGES.
COALCLIFF COAL.
This NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY supplies, the CHEAPEST. CLEANEST, and
AQ 8 THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony,
£1 per Ton net, delivered within city bounds.
This new Coal with a good draught, and range and bars kept well free fro™ ash, makes a stronger,
1 I anH oiAZw flrfi that an v other It neither has the objectionable smoky flare and soot of
and fly off like the Western, but it affords that domestic desideratum
ofTomJ kinds of coal of heating y an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a
charcoal or breeze Are, while it imparts to the steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwhole-
some fumes given off by a breeze or gas fire.
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
Office: A. B. BLACK, 247 George Street.
DEPOT: WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
BROOKS SEWING COTTONS
Q
a
o
Q
O
o
C I
CC
&
C Nl
BROOK’S SIX-CORD
SOFT COTTON
OH
NEW SHOULDER REEL.
, VERY CAREFULLY MADE
A
SW/g
HAND & MACHINE SEWING,
White, Black & all Colours s-e
BROOK’S PATENT
GLAC£ THREAD
NEW SHOULDER REEL
-/dl
JBBS, BRIGHT & CO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO., LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
Principal Agencies :
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON-Head Office : HONGKONG.
J. C. Goatling and Company (Limited)—Portland Cement.
The Tunnel Portland Cement Company (Limited)—Portland Cement .
Marshall, Sons and Company (Limited), Gainsborough—Portable Horizontal, and Vertical Engines,
Threshing Machines, Saw Benches, &c., &c.
Vivian and Sons—Yellow Sheathing Metal
ngnsh Hams, uacon, acc., arc.
Company, Victoria—Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, &c.
iany, Hayange, France—Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Bo
npany, o
Thos. Bell and Co.—English Hams, Bacon, &c., &c._
Red Cross Preserving'
De Wendel and Company,
Steel Fencing Wire, &c.
Thos. Perry and Son, Bilston—Fire-resisting Safes.
Drybrough and Co., Edinburgh—Ale.
Brunton and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse.
Thos. N. Hunt—Port Wine.
Dubos Freres, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablls, Sauternes
Boiler Plates, Iron and
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES.
New South .Wales.—Scott and Mullaly, T. Allsop, F. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros..
JIndera Mill Co. „ _ , . _
Victoria.—James Fry and Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
South Australia.— W. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hlncks.
tsar INDENTS executed, on the most favourable terms, from all parts of the world. Consignments
of produce received for shipment to London, under liberal advances.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS.
Offices: 43 KING HTREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAY'S, WED-
NESDAYS. and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON. TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday
Steamers Brisbane to Bundaberg, Gladstone, and
Port Mackay, every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
• To arrive.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
43 King Street, Sydney.
PROGRAMME of CAMDEN and CAMPBELL-
TOWN JOCKEY CLUB RACES,
to be run on
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1883.
President: C. Bull, Esq. Judge: G. F. Want, Esq.
Stewards : Dr. Beattie, Messrs. Docker, Abeam,
P. B. Hurley, I. Rudd, J. Rudd, A. Lenon, E.
L. Rutledge, T. Cadell, and C. Thompson.
Clerk of the Scales : Mr. A. Lenon. Starter: Mr.
C. Stanley. Clerk of the Course : Mr. S. Byrne.
First Pace. —MAIDEN PLATE of 30 sovs, with a
sweep of 1 sov each added, tor all maiden horses
at lime of entrance ; second horse to receive 3
sovs from the prize Penalty for winning once,
51b ; twice or more, 71b. Weight lor age. Entries
now open. 1J4 mile.
Second Race.—TRAMWAY HANDICAP of 25
sovs, with sweep of 1 sov. each added % mile.
Third Bace.-JOCKEY CLUB HANDICAP of 70
sovs, with a sweep of 2 sovs each added ; second
horte 10 sovs from the prize. mile.
Fourth Race.-PRINCE OF WALES STAKES of
30 sovs, with a sweep of 1 sov each added ; for all
horses ; weight forage. Winner to be sold imme-
diately after the race for £50 ; 71b. weight allowed
on every reduction of £10 on the selling price down
to nil; any surplus to go to the race lund. Once
round the course, about 1)4 mile.
Fifth Race.—MAYOR’S GIF f > f 20 sovs, with 20
sovs added from the club ; welter handicap, to bo
ridden by amateur members of any recognised
racing club. The winner of Jockey Club handicap
to carry a penalty of 51b. IHj mile.
Sixth Race.—FINAL FLUTTER of 10 sovs, for
all backs. Winner to be sold immediately after
the race for 5 sovs, any surplus to go to ihe race
fund. Once round the course.
Seventh Race—DISTRICT CUP, presented by
G. Brown, Esq., with 10 sovs added from the club,
and a sweep of 10s. each added, for all horses thy
bond fide property of persons residing within the
police districts of Camdeu and Campbelltown.
Once round the course Weight for age.
A.J.C. Rules strictly adhered to.
Nominations, with 1 sov enclosed as part of en-
trance tee, for Maiden Plate and Handicaps, must
be in the hands of the secretary not later than S
p in. on December 1.
Weights on December 6 ; balance of entrance
money on night of general entry; night of general
entry, December 10 ; sweeps at the scales.
Entrance, 5 per cent, on amount of prize.
A. B. CHIPPINDALL. Hon. Sec.
Important Notice to every
Country Resident.
n. l
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS,
235 & 237 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Are making great efforts to increase their larec
country trade. A Special Department tor■ tbe
exclusive benefit of those who reside away from
j'ydney is now established.
The exorbitant prices country tailors charge are
almost prohibitive to many. We are changing an
this.
TRY US ! TRY US !
If you wish to get a real good tailor’s-made gar-
ment, write tor our easy manual of self-measure-
ment, sent post free to all parts ol the colony,
with patterns, styles, and tape.
Sydney Prices, Metropolitan Fit
and Workmanship.
Suits, to Measure ** * ®
Trousers, to Measure ® 1° ”
ALL WOOL, AND SHRUNK.
H. L. Summerfield & Co.
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS.
ONLY SYDNEY ADDRESS-
235 and 237 Pitt-street.
STEET
T .
to steel. Prices post
certina Doctor, Bathurst.
Puller ton’s Pamilv Medici
Guide,
WITH plain directions for every_oase-Also-
the newly-discovered REMEDY f° r T, our tb
RHEUMATISM, and NEURALGIA. 1,0
Edition, revised, 13s. fid. ; by post, Us.
, Published by
W. MADDOCK, 381 GEO RGB- STREET.
DR. SIMMS, the unrivalled Physiognomist
and Popular Speaker, by many
quests, is delivering- his splendldly-dlustrate
amusing- lectures on the subjoined intorestinB
subjects, at the Protestant H all, as this
lows :-Skin, Neck, Forehead .Memory, THIs
(Thursday) EVENING, October 5», 2fi :
Feet, Hands, Handwriting, October 2ti ,
Eyes. Eyelids, Eyebrows, Eyelashes, Noyemi er i,
Physiognomy, its uppliCHt on. November Ad
mission : Is. and 2s. Each lecture w£l commence
at 8 p.m. Rules on Health and Beauty will be
given each evening. Entertaining I ubllc Cha
ter Headings at the close of every lecture At
Protestant Hall a Large Co lcction of L ie size
Portraits may be seen free daily. Descriptions and
Charts of Health and Character giv ™ each_da>
during the Lecture Course, in the Ante-room ot
the Protestant Hall, from 9 a.m. to S p.m., except
Sundays. “ We arrive at knowledge of man by
studying: the features of the face. ~£ aco °*.
wise and the good seek to know themseU ©s-
Shakespeare. ‘ Let the physiognomist examine
his features.”—Pope. “There is nothing truer
than physiognomy taken in oonnectlon with
manners.”—Dickens. pr. Simms is tnwn a ®“
most skilled practical physiognomist-Pictorial
World, London. “ The author is a true physiog-
nomist, and is known as one of the most inteiest
ing popular lecturers wo have. —-Human Nature,
London. “ He is the most able and the most popu-
lar exponent of physiognomy among living men.
—The Monetary and Mining Gazette, London.
“Dr. Simms reads character and Irtim
faces as though they were open books, —me
Times.
Q
P
.essee
ERA
house
Mr. W. J. Wilson
GRAND COMEDY SEASON,
under the management of
MR. WYBERT REEVE.
Brilliant Audiences. Enthusiastic Reception.
fnimense Success of Halllday’s celebrated comedy,
FOR LOVE OR MONEY
FOR LOVE OB MONEY
EVERY EVENING.
VtR. WYBERT REEVE as MAJOR BUNCOMBE.
Magnificent Scenery and Stage Appointments.
Stage Manager .. Mr. Derbert Fleniming
Acting Manager .. Mr. J. W. Dodge.
Overture at 8 ; carriages, 10.30.
Box office at Huenerbein’s, 411 Geo.-st. Tickets
may be obtained at Roberts’s, next Theatre.
Prices as usual. NO FREE LIST.
THEATRE ROYAL.— Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & Musqrove.
TRIUMPHANT RETURN
of the
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
A Greater Success than ever I
THIS and EVERY EVENING,
at a quarter to 8,
LA FILLE DU TAMBOUR MAJOR.
Prices as usual. Box office open from 11 till 4..
General Business Manager, Mr. H. H, Harwood.
Gr
aiety theatre.
Lessee and Manager .. .. Mr. F. E. Hlseooks.
Amother great triumph achieved.
Houses crowded from floor to ceding to witness
HISCOCK-c FEDERAL MINSTRELS and
SPECIALITY UNION
in their New Programme.
Admission-Orchestra chairs, 4s.; stalls, 3s. :
circle. 2s.; pit, Is. Carriages at 10.30.
’ ’ v c. A. MADDICK, Secretary.
In preparation, “ NOAH’S ARK.”
FRANK BEVERLEY’S TOUR.
“PHRYNE”
(John C. Dalkeith’s classical play)
will bo included in the repertoire,
MISS BLANCHE REIVES
being specially engaged for her original part,
" Chloris.”
EDUCATIONAL.
TTSS LYDIA HASTINGS instructs in VOICE
BUILDING. ELOCUTION. PUBLIC and
ILOUR READINGS. Class at SYDNEY
1CHOOL OF ARTS, Friday, 4 p.m.; and at
SYDNEY ARCADE, Room 36, Thursday, 3 p.m.,
Wednesday, 8 p.m. (Ladies and Gentlemen).
Visitors invited. _
Private Lessons, for Ladies or Gentlemen,
4 HUNTER STREET, opposite Ehzabeth-street.
Terms for Schools or Clubs on application.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
TO LET from 6th November next. Terms on
application to Thos. Setbiqht, care of
Elvy and Co., 329 George-street, Sydney ; or the
undersigned,
JAMES B. HICKIE,
Brisbane.
T
HOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR OP THE
ZULU WAR.
NEW DIORAMA
OF
EG YPTI AN WAR!
W. H. THOMPSON, Proprietor.
SYL. RYAN, Agent.
ADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns
of
Dresses, Mantles, &o.,
and
Weigel’s Journal of
FaNliioiiH,
whTch contains the latest styles, are sold by the
following agents :- 0 .
George Slater, Stationer, 39 Oxford-st., Sydney
Mra Beales, Fancy Repository, Regent-st., Redtern
Mrs’ T H Griffiths, Milliner, 336 King-st., Newtown
Mrs C. Chapman, Fancy Repository, Church-st.
south, Parramatta
Principal Retail Office:
Jfil KING-STREET (near Elizabeth-st.), Sydney.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
theatre Royal—” Tambour Major.” p, 8.
opera House—” Love or Money ” lb.
Gaiety Theatre—Federal Minstrels ib.
you are going to have a notice in the style
love—one of those notices that you read a
little way down, and then fall to laughing with
rnui.’ tiny pink ear on the fender—a notice which
Noises you to cry out, “ Oh, ma, dear, do look at
and then you run to ma, who is in the
kitchen with her hands all over Hour, and spell it
nut to her while she makes the resurrection-pie
fm- dinner. We know, bless you, the critical
•• trifle” you like to have your ladles in; and we
are going to give you something now so captivat-
inir in the critique line that we shall have you ever
Afterwards knocking at our office-door in the
small hours, on publishing mornings, with a spawl-
imr-hammer, and wildly shrieking for an early
coDV through the key-hole—Now, spread it out on
the dining-room table, lean well forward on both
dhows, and. above all, read along as fast as you
can for the old man has nearly done shaving up-
stairs and the moment he comes down he must
have ’The Bulletin or blood.—Ah, that’s right I
Promise little Bobby a half-penny to piquet him-
self on the first-floor landing and cry “cave 1” when
dada’8 coming. Clever girls I
♦ ♦ ♦
It was a gathering of gloaters, a meeting
of mashers, a demonstration of dudes. They were
noon the landing, in the vestibule, and beneath
the verandah. Diamonds innumerable twinkled
in the gaslight: the atmosphere was heavy with
“Jockey Club;” and “haws” innumerable floated
away upon the evening breezes. As we approached
the theatre, upon which the words “ Tambour-
Major” were placarded in every conceivable “ let-
ter ” we faltered. Our first glance revealed a picture
almost appalling in its weirdness. Men, whom we
had long believed to be either dead or “trans-
lated,” strutted about like gorgeous spectres, all
cuffs and shirt-front. The disconsolate individual
who was supposed to have taken beetle-poison
years ago, because (you have all seen
and worshipped her) wouldn’t marry him, was
laughingly conversing with the gay Lothario who,
during Musgrove’s first season, was suspected of
having “sneaked ” the family teapot, and “ boned”
the barometer, in order to procure sufficient funds
to take one of the “officers” to Sandringham. The
individual who was only “ choked off ” from haunt-
ing in days of yore, that charming “Drummer
Boy’s ” abode by an intimation in writing from that
lady that there was “no room for his feet” (after
which rebuff he lay stiff on his sofa howling for
henbane), was wringing the remains of an S. and B.
from his moustache, and looking as full of life and
beef as a local preacher. Through these phantoms
we glided, as in a dream. We have a confused
notion of the greeting of the doorkeeper, and of a
reference on his part either to stone-gin or the
Archbishop. But we can’t remember which. It
was all a blurr.
Inside. A Turkish bath to slaw music,
htanding-rpom only and tips gifted Moss, in a
»u un l f . Qrm and a violent perspiration, franti-
cally thumbing a crumpled plan. Our seats had
Been rushed, but Moss is a man of resource—a very
Hanmbal of ushers. Will we take one of the seats
knotted to an evening contemporary, until he can
f Vf l l s °P r dMfn 2 VVtjy, cert’nly; but we must run
Qut first and buy something. This done, we seat
I es i having previously deposited our pur-
pnase beneath the chair. A bouquet, you will
flaturahy conjecture ? Well, not quite. To tell
you the truth, it was a little savoury something
sindwiched between two halves of a threepenny
i. s P a11 ney er be said we had a heart that
pould not feel for a fellow-creature I
• • l
, A c arefijl glanpe poqnd reyealed one of the
houses ” we have seen in the theatre. A
ami r fk 0ata vY£ audience, also: two-thirds mashers,
. . res t nebrpws. Musgrove, in a condition of
interesting pallor, was in his own box, and beside
a n °hle °f the soil successfully disguised
l8ke , rs - A young Crown-Prosecutor, con-
thi C M? u - 8 ?? a * r °y C0at > beamed adoration from
ine chair that used formerly to be occupied nightly
i lovelor n “ Bones,” and no insurance-clerk
a friendly waiter failed (it being pay-
hS m diffuse, a mingled odour of “Nubian” and
1pmj° *u rou P d- T he Interest, of course, centred
the , Piece than in the “cast.” This was-
the case of Mr. Wallace, who resumed
Bambini—entirely different to that with
35"“ Musgrove first presented the opera. The
fwlj e was a great lark. Brennir was the first
nn vS. m 1 ar l. d this is the only instance, we believe,
nf v?P ord of a manager having permitted a tenor
company to be first Robert [Phew!—Ed. B.l
\\Wi« e i'}' f ‘ a , replaced on this occasion by Mr. W. H,
miinho’ the silvery tenor whose legs created so
Stpwo in “La Masco tte;” and Nellie
ha, art ’ 7,ho used to fascinate us as Grlolet,
is tho°oT .bloomed forth as a prima donna, and
Miss Mo^ el - a the hour. Far droller than this,
haw* i®* 16 Stewart, who has been hitherto in the
beincr if opera-bouffe, of coming on in tights and
Delta vi??M en r t i^ 8peec h le88 ' ls uow the Duchess
(listr im,H ta there had been nothing else in the
tion ‘ on of characters, and in the representa-
M ns * to Put the audience in a good humour, this
8udiS?^i» n ® xa ltatlon of Maggie, with breathless
oorotiB* 1688 ’ ft 01 ? tights to the sharer of a ducal
intend’ w ould alone have sufficed to have instilled
the 11 au . dle nce a good humour bordering npon
of sadnos= l0u - s! ., Fo T , our P art > there was a tinge
sideiwi a ?? s m? xed with our merriment. We con-
neariv on r 5 t £ er cruel of the management to hide
with iC.fi °f Maggie inside a white dress vandyked
and make her laboriously talk sentiment,
off ’’ 18 /! K)88 ibly) longing all the time to “ peei
ten-in Ah gl X e them “Pretty as a Picture” m a
hessian^* palr °f Knickerbockers and blue satin
yssians trimmed with silver.
m. . • f" •
diarda 'T r 3 olet this trip is Miss Fanny Lid-
of ar ’„m + at f rac tive young lady of the plump order
shiiinini but one whose vivacity when
aerijj ?,* n a bout is, perhaps, less suggestive of the
*o chnrn.f a substantial. Miss Liddlard looked
oo lf.Rc during the fifst act we detected
mashers Iqst in the thrqes of
f.! 5 composition, al| surreptitiously penning
and from the original manner in which she sansr
dent that °shouU wa^* 16 act > we are conti-
our shoe trnnt ld fr a £,? ny time lose the key of
has i tho "araber Miss Liddiard
ket us out nf mn. Ji5 he i! flJUld r at once be able to
could thump a beadle or mend a clock rinf Wf »
tl i ln r sl1 ® ca P beat the drum. Mr. Wood-
tnifv nn K^ a P. ltaine Hobcrt, sang* delight-
the statoTnrl'Jn^’h t0 a lew u private
Su 8 ?*® and in the private boxes; but we are un-
able to compliment him with more than ordinary
reason h that >l wp 8 11 P e r fo rrnancn, for the simple
reason that we couldn’t hear much nf him nnn
misfortune, no doubt. Miss Amelia Martin it will
!l candidate for vocal
honours, couldn t sing out, and conscmienti v
J VeU 'V (TSdalffffSSJ
,3 ought to sing out. We want to hear Mr
voice- fle ilut V ifn' c know ho has u nice
voice, but, If ho doesn t cure about giving- the
a full taste of his quality™! will
charter him tor one afternoon all to ourselves and
engage a sentry-box for the performance
* * *
indeeif * art WaS a ver y nice Stella,
whin no . “ ore icamed to crack a
wmp tnan Liddiard has to beat a drum Kellv was
scene 7 in C the a ?ecnns' Ma t 0r ’ t00 ’ and his Pathetic
of tears 1SGG ?? d act caused quite a shower
dress circle v£‘u ter , ln t° J he Pit from the
recemfoni was f 6 (who u had 11 tremendous
reception) was funny enough as Bambini • and
we are thankful to Mr. Howard Vernon for his
has1e Part °f theDuke - as - sincc beholding
it, -Death has terrors tor us no longer The scenery
and dresses were tolerably fresh, but the French
olheers, led by Miss Una Brooke, the only surviv-
imn 1 T^ r j ) the original crowd, had apparently
fanes we 11 fc r® scale. Most of the
! f d l? „ ; l es tvere fearfully familiar, and the bulk
army 6 f 01° ko P, t , u > } tk « reputation of their
that ma8kl W by persistently oglingevery-
“^amhnnVvSw^ nda white tie ar >d an eye-glass.
lamboui-Major is to run for twelve nights,
when we are to have “ Les Cloches.’’ Bueno'
drama™ 6 807 SOrt of °P° ra a fter so much melo-
* * * *
The Montacue-Turners are to appear in
v.r 81c Jftlj r , and we notice in their prospectus
whioVi 1 v, Ma ?f 6 8 ? au d a , nd Virginia,” the libretto of
h % on n‘ u ptedfor Chawles by Mr. Leopold
an English song-writer of this ilk, who is
t0 execute orders for songs, dramas,
tragedies, melodramas, farces, and entertainments
in parcels to suit purchasers. Mr. Jordan is like-
wise a composer, and sold his opera, “The Derby
Day, Prior to leaving for Australia, to Messrs.
thn/qfma’ ‘^\r m0tt V\ toi i. jM '• Jordan claims
of Duchess ’’ is only a paraphrase
ot his plot. We have not yet heard what Mr,
Sims saj’s. And, talking of clever people we may
remark that Mr. and Mrs. Hall and family Appeared
Victor eralonSaturday, for one consecutive
alfjlt. In the Seven Ages of Man,” Illustrated by
Dbkrles Dickens. Johnny hadn’t much money in,
waa of a Jovial character. We
understand Mr. Hall is going to travel with this
show—to Parramatta. We have every confidence In
Johnny s taients, every feeiing of admiration for
r 8 TT b dm y + a ? d A biI !f y ’ but we wouldn’t
advise at, Hall to take the push” much farther
than Parramatta. By the way, may we ask Johnny
(we are always in search of information) the mean-
ing of this item in his programme?-” Third Age—
The Lover.—Susan Nipper (Dombey and Son), Miss
T«vS e T Gr uJi Parn J| r Nipper (Dombey and Son),
John L. Haly. We don t trouble, of course,
about either Mr. Johu L. Haly” or “ Miss Jessie
Gr ® ] V, * or we , can ’ w ith a little difficulty, puzzle
out that much; but who in thunder’s “Farmer
Nipper (Dombey and Son) ?” Evidently Mr. John
L. Hall s printer knows more than we do of this
Farmer of whom he is the Painter. And just a
minute, loukuow the key-note of “Tambour-
major” is this;—
Duke: Why, there are men in tho convent!
What, I wonder, Bambini, would men he doing in
a convent ? s
Bambini : Thgt is more than I can say.
Afid yet we see, (o opr consternation, notwith-
standing this giddy text, that a Murkan young lady
who used to dispense things to dr.nk'is amongst
in the pageant. Wo remonstrated
with her, other night; hut when she explained
that she used to lead the hallelujah chorus at camp
entirely silent 6 '’ °' Vn GOl W ry ’. w< ? at 'due b,ecamo
* * * *
Miss Carpy Nelsoq (whom we have always
loved in secret) writes to us from Terraia, depre-
cating a notice of her appearance at Waggu, which
appeared in (his journal. Well, we have only to
tell Miss Nelson that, out of sympathy with her,
we quoted a portion of an article from the River-
ine Star, in order to show that the row the
audience made at her performance at Wagga was
entirely due, as the Star put it, to “the
collapse ot her assistant.” Carry was last at Bcgu,
and goes-or has gone—to Wolutnla and Paubula.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
Late in the stilly night, when the starlight
trembled on the waters, and the policeman slum-
bered on his beat, wo commenced this notice. We
tell asleep, and dreamt that we were in Hades-to
which place we had been sent after a life of the
most appalling crimes—and that the devils down
there were playing a moral comedy for our benefit.
Just then we woke, with the Opera House pro-
gramme lying before us on the table. Then we
concluded that we could not do justice to the sub-
ject, so we let i( be till the morning. The morning
came flushing up the rosy east, and the world was
glad, and the milkman left no milk in our jug-Tor
several reasons. We opened qqr eyelids with a
cold chisel, and saw the sunljght streaming through
the window, Blithely we dressed, ana blithely
(after reading our usual chapter of the Koran) we
sallied out to catch the breeze of incense-breath-
ing morn. We caught it, and then, having had our
customary straightener, we wandered about the
streets of tho suburb in which we now live,
and watched the early children playing in the
gutter. There are some curious sights to be seen
m the morning. We got up at dawn one day, and
saw a sight which, perhaps, altered the whole
course of our existence. We were iu love, and
she was a young lady equally remarkable for her
charming taste in di ess and her beautiful braided
hair. We used to call at her house every evening,
and sit with her in the window-niche while she
talked of an ethereal world which her spirit yearned
for, and flashed out a divine scorn from her great
brown eyes when we expressed anything like con-
tentment with this sordid earth. For a long time
we grovelled in our humility at the feet of this
goddess, and did not dare to breathe a whisper to
her of anything common enough to be put into a
scale and weighed. We confined our talk to rain-
bows and roseate clouds and music aud moon-
light—a phrase for which we have to thank
Mr. Arthur O’Shaughnessy, now dead and
gone to glory — and altogether became so
alarmingly ethereal that a Spiritualist medium
actually offered us a salary to personate tho spirits
of the departed, not to mention that we were fre-
quently mistaken for the shadow of a clothes-
prop. But one morning an end came to all this.
We had got up early and sauntered down to the
corner hotel to find out the time. We passed the
shrine of our goddess on the way, and looking
over the back door—if a shrine can be said to have
a back door,—we saw a right that froze us with
horror. There in the back yard, clad in a dress
redolent of many bygone dinners, with her fairy
feet stuck into heelleaa slippers that looked like
half-decked fishing smacks, and her hair, which
we were accustomed to see so beautifully braided,
hanging in touzled twisty down her back, stood
the dmnity o,f Our dreams, shovelling steak and
Onions into he.r rosebud mouth with an iron spoon.
From that day forth romance, waa ‘dead to, us.
* 9 *
At least, we so tl(eq. And now ?
tyell, now fife $re ten t(mes more romantic than
ever. have gone into hotels and confidently
Qtqck-up long-sieevers, in the belief that the land-
lord was fond of us, apd that it aiquaed him to
write our names on tbe slate. This was our
romantic way, but, as a general thing, it was not
ms. We only mention these trifles to warn you
w ® arp going to be enthusiastic about the
wybert Reeve Company, so that you may take
your own discount from what we say.
• • •
We feel we shall have to hold ourselves
hard in to keep from gushing over this “Love or
Money comedy. There is something so subtly
unique about the Idea of bringing in a moral at
the end—the moral that they prosper best who
marry tor love—and such a charming incongruity
about the mixture of virtuous reflections with —
er-spicy speeches that make the simple-hearted
and mgh-souled, though unwashed, sons of toll in
the gallery laugh and call for more, that it is
impossible to refrain from using the high-
es- terms of praise with regard to this comedy,
llie foregoing is rather a longer sentence than wo
usually write. We prefer long undulating sen-
tences to short ones, but we have got into an abrupt
style through domestic interruptions. In fact, we
may say our literary manner is home-made. We
have hardly reached the subject of a sentence and
jammed in the predicate, when we are called uiion
to chop wood or pull a pickle-fork out of the
mouth of the two-year-old. This is why our style
is usually so abrupt. And this is why we shall have
to be somewhat abrupt over this notice, though
we started it with the intention of making it long
enough to paper a shooting-gallery. The comedy,
then, though Arcadian, is charming. It was evi-
dently wntten by Mr. Halliday for a race of people
who were too good to live, and are consequently
dead. But even as an antique it is charming. It
is, you see, so pleasant to think that there were
9?, ce , people who believed in and were amused by
this kind of thing. Very pleasant, indeed.
♦ ♦ *
the actin S is worthy of the play.
Mr. Wybert Reeve certainly does (in our opinion)
somewhat spoil the simplicity of the story by his
artistic performance of the nart of Major Bun-
combe, but there is nothing to complain of in the
others on this score. Let us take them
*5 There is first, for instance (after
Mr. Reeve, of course, who is too artistic and cul-
tured torus), a young lady who says “allood,” and
another young lady who says “disharble.”
All this is delightfully Arcadian. So is
the oratorical style of Miss Annie Taylor, who
speaks as if she wore talking to a man under the
stage who was hard of hearing, or as if she were in
charge of a tire or a thunderstorm. Natural, also,
is Miss Watson, the Nurse who contrives to hold
tbe baby and her tongue with equal grace and
dignity. Miss lischer and Miss Francis are, we
fully believe, no whit behind the other ladies
either in pathos or passion, though they have no
occasion to show It. Now for the gentlemen.
• • •
Major Buncombe is the play. He has most
of the show to himself, Mr. Wybert Reeve plays
rne p “ rt o f Major Buncombe—-a ■ tatement which,
now that we have made it, seems more than com-
monly superfluous. Mr, Wybert Reeve is like the
banner of Britain—semper eadem. He has one
basis for every character. This basis is his own
particular mannerism. On this he proceeds, by
certain disguises of dress and make-up, to build a
character. He even loses himself in his part.
Mr. George Forbes is simply perfect. He
happily exhausted criticism on the first character
he ever played. He exhausted more than criti-
C18ra; • w h at more, is a secret that, in the nature
.• things, he can never know. We suppose he
slicks to the style of his first performance, on the
principle that it is better to hold on to the evil that
we know—and so on. Which does great credit
to him. Mr. Herbert Fleming reflects honour
t ( > the management who secured his services.
Mr. Edwin Palmer played the part of an old man
well. Mr. Frank Gerald, as his son, is placidly
pleasant. Mr. Gerald has a soothing, ana, so to
speak, narcotic voice, which is very grateful to a
tired ear. And, finally, there is the bailiff (Mr.
Duff). But, perhaps, with regard to bailiffs, the
least said is the soonest mended. Thunder f We
had almost forgotten the baby, which is, next to
Major Buncombe, the most important characterin
the play. The baby is a dummy, and the offspring
of two sticks.
It seems that Mary Addeyaon is a big go at
the London Lyceum, which is more than, the Hat,
cheldor Minstrels were at Charters Tovws. the
elections occupying the undivided attention of
the miners, who, after the shades of night had de-
scended, were, ns a rule, too much occupied in
heaving quartz on to the roof of the Towers
Herai.d olflce to care about going to the show.
By the way, an -Old Subscriber’ (wo wonder how
old he is) says:— Would you kindly oblidge an old
subscriber by answering the following question:
What is the highest salary that has ever been re-
ceived by an operatic singer for one night’s ner-
tqrmance, and by whom?” We "oblidge” him
with pleasure. Adelina Patti, at the Academy of
Music, New York, five thousand dollars (£1000)
gold. Billy Hoskins, we want to remark—
I/ 1 ' 8 , 18 a queer Non sequitur— lives vet in
r J ho Grasshopper ’ (Melbourne), and Mr. E
Lay, the ventriloquist, is dead.
* * * *
Only think! Joe Brown, Majeroni’s secre-
tary, is going to act. He is, at present, only secre-
tary and treasurer to the company: but this is not
enough for Joe’s ambition. Ho wants to come on
in a toga and buff boots. We are comparatively
glad to see Joseph at any time, hut we should be
superlatively glad to see him in a toga and buff
boots. It takes a man of commanding stature to
carry off this rig, and J.’s well-known majestic
presence would gild tbe toga with refined tinsel.
Besides, we want to see an actor como to the fore
whose name is Brown. We have always liked the
name; but not so much as we like a black Minstrel
ji p ii P p i of whom an Australian editor calmly says:
We have, however, our washerwomen’s deepest
sympathy—she washes for them.” This seems to
us ungenerous, when it is considered that these
songsters travelled so many hundred miles to treat
those benighted yokels to “ Father’s in the Dock
a fu ln ’ Mother's on the “e old drunk,” and
other ditties with which we are familiar. And
familiar we are, too, with Frank Weston, who is in
London, doing nothing,” a proceeding which is
apt to wear out patience and pub.-posts simul-
taneously. And you may as well ho told, too. if
you are hungry after information, that Signor F.
G-razioso has leased the Melbourne Vietorieral, to
Prod.ce, with an Italian Company, Flotow’s
L Ombra. /elman (“Alberto!’’) conducts, and
Herr Kunde Is the leader—an artiste, we think, who
is new to this Kundery.
* * * *
It is annoying to find that “ Clarence
Leonard, a young English actor,” has been arrested
m Connecticut, U.S, for betraying a down-the-
harbour demeanour towards a Mrs. Gerard. It
seems Mrs. G. retailed hash, but when Clarence
went to live there, he was never asked to
set em up, ’ Then male Gerard got sus-
picious, and round out that while he himself had
in the morning to conceal “ twice laid,” Leonard
discussed ham and eggs in the seclusion of the
store-room. On complaining, Mr. G. was “fired
out on to the side-walk, and he now requires gove
with which to wash out his wrongs. And It’s fimflv
to read the critic of the Adelaide Lantern on the
Romany Rye,” and to find he says: ‘'Rut twcjwus
(8, . c > « moutotw The skillful (si c .> anylist (sic)
with the aid of a dissecting knife called memory,
can easily reduce the Romany Rye to itscorapo-
nent parts,. He will Una a large percentage of the
Lights o London,' a portion of 'The World,’ a
trace of New Babaian, (sir) with a suggestion of
the Ticket of Leave Man.’ These elements of
niiuougue(sic) and plot are,’ ” etc. Wewonderwbat
Ariel does when he is not writing dramatic
criticisms; or, rather, wo wonder what is the
number of the m,Uk cart he d, rives!
♦ * * *
A wire fyem Ljent. Maufyed (hum !), Rose,
from Newcastle, Informed us* that all the D. C.
tickets for Bampier’s ope ing night, last Saturday,
in “No Mercy," had been taken. The company
includes “W. H. Scagrave, James Carden, H. Stone-
ham, J, Ctesar, Sam Poole, W. Rosier, L. St. Law-
rence, Maraton Leigh, — Housekeeper, Miss Julia
Merton, and “the fairy actresses.” This “push”
strikes us as being a bit heavy for the provinces.
>> e see, too, “No Mercy” is described as being
an original |! I I] and emotional drama of English
and Australian life, written by Julian Thomas,
Esq., LL.d., Melbourne Argus—‘ The Vagabond,*
expressly tor Mr. Dampior,” which is rather amus-
nig to those who know something about the ante-
cedents ot this glorious production. A number of
excerpts irom press notices are quoted, but with no
names of the papers in which they appeared at-
tached to them. We do not, however—much to our
surprise!—recognise any extract from the critique
that appeared in this journal. And, dancing from
drama to music, we may say that “The White
Sergeant, by Stephens and Solomon, and “ Vene-
tian Nights, by Strauss, are the coming lyrical
sensations. e know the name of the former is
riffht, but wo do not lay much Strauss unon the
correctness of the title of the latter. Still, ou
opera, the N.Y. Mercury says: “ Catherine Lewis
and her husband have re-united. That’s the wav
with the whole lot. When they are together they
want to be separated, and when they are separated
they want to be together.” The question now
arises—“ Which husband ?”
* * * *
The two prime professional mashers seem
to be Belleville and Osmond Teorle. The latter has
Just been divorced from his wife, and has been
ordered to pay her £10 a week alimony; then, on
top of this, the N.Y. Mercury learns that Mr.
Tearle Is married to Miss Minnie Conway Levy, and
that the wedding took place on Tuesday morning
In Rose Coghlan’s rooms at her hotel In Denver.
Col. An elegant breakfast was given to the newly
married couple by Miss Coghlan.” Rather con-
fusing, this, isn’t it ? And the more so because
Rose is the representative of the church-going and
camp-meeting crowd, and is received dceouel’on
dkt (dear familiar friend!) into the houses of the
Goulds and Vanderbilts. These actors are very
giddy boys, it appears, and are really only topped
by nigger-minstrels. Do Belleville we know all
ab ?M fc .u Smce Gari i er knocked his head through
until the present time, and he seems to have been
i? . T l ittle tin-pot way,” quite a small Blue
Beard. It must be remembered, though, that
in America you seem to be allowed to*
marry all round ; though there seems to be
a disposition to taboo a man marrying more
than one at the same time. Well, then, of course
we have to say that Charles Heywood, Lawless*
and company opened at Wagga the other day. We
P 1 ope they did well, and, anyhow, we should be
loth to pigeon to an artist who Is so big a bird-
charmer. V e may remark, however, that we have
seen the “ Sorceress” (his crack piece) several
times; and the more we have seen it, the more w©
have not known what it means. And now
Ella, you shall have this par.—
No matter how it’s jamm’d in!—
You opened, twinkling little star.
On Monday week, at Camden.
We won’t Insult you, dear, this time.
„ .li. B .y„ more of this 8a( l shoe-shop rhyme,
br? the Stray Leaves ” are on the road again.
Well, when they make their coin next time, we
advise them not to risk it in Sydney with a full
dramatic company at the Vlctorleral. Yet we saw
£500 taken there one afternoon. That was when *
but shake hands, Larry.
* * * ♦
And tet us tell you with a velvet tongu©
that Edwin Lester has bought a lot of Polk’s
pieces, and that he starts out with “TheStrate
Sdm ’, I lr 0 ’ Posen,” and “ An Arabian Night,”
with Emma Wangcnheim as leading lady This is
a really swell alfair, as Emma informs us that she
ba ® Pot money into the spec. Put a little on our
plate! They open in Bathurst, and as our heart is
invariably upon our sleeve, they will know the
i UO xx 'T,* 8h them ; ?ut mo more than we wish
to Ned Holloway, who has been giving: them “The-
woman of the people ” in Wollongong wRh Mw!
H in the title role; of whom the W. Argus savs’—
“It is needless to dilate on this lady’s histrionic
ability, as it is almost a household word with those
who feel interest in theatrical matters and of
D’Orsay Ogden’s Bertrand the same paper writes-—
Mr D’Orsay Ogden, as Bertrand, the drunken
and degraded husband of Marie, acted his part so
naturally, that many of the spectators felt in-
clined to believe the various scenes were real ” A
libel on our friend D’Orsay, by the way, who never
takes anything stronger than thin gruel. And a
trip to Queensland wouldn’t he a bad dart, lust ii
only to say that Zulu Thompson Is in Brisbane
drawing all the engaged couples with his sofas—
and, we may remark, that this benevolent spirit of
generosity of W.H.’s all comes pleasantly home to
him in the end; lor the Intelligent nigger-minstrel
will at onoe see that the more sofas Zulu gives
away to the public, the more cheers he receives in
return. Four stars after this.
♦ ♦ • •
Correspondence. Give us the mail-bag-
butlah! Well, here’s a man from Murrumbnrrab
who says: “I beg leaf (sic) to send You a few
beraps concerning the M‘Burrah Arnature Dra-
matic Club.” We are much obliged: the more soi
that by begging our “leaf" for the llrst time, he
thus is enabled to make his bough. It seems the
performance consisted of “ The Golden Dustman”
and a farce, and the pieces were interpreted bv
J tailors. 3 grocers, 3 Bank clerks, a carter, it
baker, and a Draper.” Quite a respectable crowd
Wo are not told where the funds went to—probably
to the sexton’s aunt. Amateur actors, by the wav
are always either the persons named above or
J ew Jewellers, naval officers, and private secretaries
to His Excellency. Butstay! The triumph of Mlllis
(who, we may tell you, goes to New Zealand shortly)
having fired the breast (we do not, for obvious
reasons, say .the brain In this instance) of another
aspirant for ventrlloquial honours, ho writes to us
requesting us “as an introduction to you and mv
future advertisements, I ask a favor to insert the
following In your papper” (sic). As we>ant to get
rich pretty quick, we will, of course, give our cor-
respondent (whose name, for fear of making him
blush, we conceal) a show in our “pauper ” w e
learn then that this gifted creature has been
engaged in composing and writing a variety of
songs recitations and charaetures (Me) which he
has now compleated (Me) and as soon as ho com-
mitts (sic) all to memory he Intends making his first
appearence (sic) in Sydney (sic) with his entertain-
ment which consists of original profile (Me) and
other changes with sentirmental (sic) comic songs
dances and recitations Musical New sketches ot
ventriloquism immitations (sic) of birds quick can
cature sketching &c entitled Mirror of MorrfI
ments (Me), This is, it will be observed, verv “Mr’*
(copyright reserved). Wo are looking forward
with much Interest to the “ Mirrorjof Merriments ••
It cannot fail, wo should say, to be an ©ntertain-
ment of an enthralling, almost an exciting, nature
We shall certainly be at the show. We can’t sav
anything at this distance of time about the funeral.
• • • •
A pretty note, too, from Arthur Vivian (of
the Helen Vivian Dramatic Co.), in Armidale
reaches us, in which it is set forth, in Arthur’s ni™
round text, that-” We have not found It necessary
to use those thick-soied boots your paper spoke
about —(an after-thought —wo may.)” There is
a frankness about this that is refreshing; we mean
-hem t-refreshing to us. Arthur, however, has
been dtrfng weil, his Simon Punkln, in “ Neck for
Neok, having “knocked” the rustics all along the
road. In Neck and Neck,” the Akmidale
Chronicle pathetically remarks, “ the scene on
the scatfold was a most pitiful one. The gallows
were erected on the stage, and It worked sulen-
didly. And, to go a bit ahead of Arthur, it mav
not be out ot place to state that Scantle’s “London
Opera Bouffe Company ” not one of whom wtui
born in Jamberoo, have been showing in Brish»n«
at the Halhertorl. to average bi*; and it fe
with gnet we record the fact that, in addrestino-
BID Holloway. Brisbane Punch has tho following^
You, are, in our opinion, far more worthy of suc-
oess than the ‘great’ [something], who, we note
with sorrow. Is being toadied to down South bv
the Press, an estate which he has lost few omnr
tunities of quarrelling with, or of leaving beffffid
amongst other hopeless . . [admirers].”* 5 u
[Three things cut out through “ want of
space,” an extended notice of the Fedeml
Minstrels’ excellent performances, half a column
concerning Dr. Simms, and a deal about Southe d
shows from our Melbourne correspondent]


Woman Items
This is a crusher for husbands. An Eng-
lish judge has decided that “a wife who has quar-
relled with her husband, has a legal right to turn
him out of doors. If the house In which they live,
happens to belong to her.” The wife has here the
best of it. A man is not allowed to turn his wife
out of doors, no matter how much they quarrel.
We have often quarrelled with our missus, but we
have never been so ungallant as to request her to
leave the house—not while there was any crockery
left to smash, at any rate. When we leave, we leave
together—usually by the silvery light of the cres-
cent moon, when a friend backs the handcart Into
the lane for our luggage. The missus, like Mrs.
Mleawber, will never desert us. This accounts for
our occasional gloom.
The female masher has established her ex-
istence in London: the exact opposite of her male
prototype. Though we have only poor hybrid
specimens of him in Sydney, everyone knows
what he tries to be—everything but a man. In all
his purity, he is a washed out, girlish being ; he
walks delicately, and is a stranger to any active
motion; his linen is spotless, clothes skin-tight,
manner feeble and limp, and he is greatm coloured
waistcoats. He never earns a meal by honest
exercise or healthy perspiration, and it’s a wonder
he does not die of self-imposed fatigue. In the
afternoon he parades the block to be admired, and
In 'the evening he poses against the wall look-
Ing ineffably stupid while others dance. His life
Is an alternation of dawdling and dressing ! he Is
too dense to be hurt by contempt;
libel on manhood to call him man. Conscious ol
this strange person invading the domain of to
sex, the masher female has appeared on the scene,
taking on herself his lost manhood. She Is mas-
culine from crown to toe, In manners, and, as far
as she dares to be, in dress. There is no soft bun-
chinese about her; she Is stiff and trim in her shell
hat, tailor-made dress, with stlck-up collar and
front, and lace-up boots. And when her swaying
crlnoiette is covered with a tlght-flttlng, tailor-
made ulster, she has a curious and very aggressive
swagger. She talks loudly on the street, andel-
bowsner way; she is neither polite n ° r
her conversation. Though often well-born, she
does not seem well-bred, and takes pains to learn
slang. On very slight acquaintance, she will tell
suspicious stories to a perfect stranger, and she
whistles and hitches her clothes like a man. An
ordinary man, even If not super-modest. Is apt to
be somewhat embarrassed, when the female
masher opposite to him rucks up her dress in a
public railway car to adjust her an un-
usual thing for ladles to do In public. The ordi-
nary, well-behaved, courteous man finds the female
masher the most difficult person to deal with, for
when she Is rude, there is no reply; she is still a
woman. An elderly gentleman was assisting nis
wife from a railway carriage, when a female
masher, waiting to enter, aud thinking the pro-
cess too tedious, said loudly, w *i? n
people are out, I suppose we shall be allowed to
get in.” Her self-possessed sneer w&uld have sub-
dued a younger man, but the old gentleman was
equal to the occasion. “ My dear young lady, he
said loudly, “a little patience will do you no harm.
In fact. If you practice patience, it Is possible that
you may some day get a husband. But I venture
to think it would be undesirable—for him.
Says an English writerMrs. Grundy
decrees that no girl shall bathe with anv man,
even her father, husband, or brother, and the con-
sequence Is that few of them learn to swim, and
many of them do not bathe at all. Abroad, on the
other hand, where the sexes bathe together, ladies
are constantly taught to swim by their male rela-
tives. The sooner, therefore, that we supersede
our ideas on this point and allow both sexes to
bathe together, the better—especially for the ladies.
I suppose that Mrs. Grundy would say that it is
‘improper’ for young men to meet girls in so airy
a costume as a bathing-dress. This is a most ludi-
crous argument. Why on earth there should be
impropriety in a tunic and knickerbockers, and
none in an evening dress which displays half the
fair wearer’s back and most of her chest, is a thing
which even Mrs. Grundy herself might be puzzled
to explain."
♦ * *
Strawberries and rum have superseded
strawberries and cream in the fashionable world.
The rum is said to give a most delicious flavour to
the fruit, and is much enjoyed by the blue ribbon
people Mrs. Langtry has met with a chivalrous
champion in no less a person than Mr. Barry Sul-
livan. At a supper recently, the veteran tragedian
gave it as his opinion that the lady was endowed
with all the qualifications necessary to succeed
upon the stage. Her Rosalind —the only part he
had seen her in—was an intelligent and appreciative
interpretation of the character. He added that if
for the next few years she would work hard at
her profession, she might attain a high position....
Lord Cairns, whose son, Lord Garmoyle, is to marry
Miss Fortescue, the actress, has bought up all the
photographs of that lady that were exposed for
sale in the shops, and has asked her not to sit again
for her portrait. It is not said whether the nega-
tives of those photographs have been purchased
too From a London dallyA Lady wishes to
recommend another Lady who, through no fault of
her own, has become in distressed circumstances,
thinking that if 1000 benevolent persons were each
to subscribe £10, it would place her again in affluent
circumstances I” There was recently a wedding
in ballon captif in Cleveland, and aftei the cere-
mony the bride, we learn, “ kissed the justice who
wedded her squarely on tne mouth.” The balloon
was then weund down, and the parties separated,
notwithstanding an assertion from the judge that
there was a flaw in the ceremony, and that it ought
to all be gone over again!.... Certain very modest
young men belonging to the Wesleyan Band of
Hope, Maryborough, Q., drew up a petition, which
was numerously signed, praying they should not be
compelled to sit beside young ladies at meetings...
Mrs. Hampson says she has seen more drunken
women in Sydney in one month than she saw else-
where in the three years since she left England
Mrs. Hampsonis a very intemperate lecturer....
Madame de Stael was plain, but longed for the
distinction of beauty. In quest of compliment,
she once tried, when in company with Talleyrand
and a lady ox great beauty, to make him show a
preference. But in vain she put such questions as
she thought inevitable; he parried all. At last she
said: “Now, if both of us were drowning, which
would you try to save?’* “O, madam I he re
plied, bowing to her, “ you swim so well.
The Melbourne Herald apologises for
having called Mr. Conway a “ willing ” visitor. It
says the notice should have been headed “ a cul-
tured” visitor, but by a stupid typographical
error, the word “ willing ” was substituted for the
word “ cultured.” Now, although it was rough
on Mr. Conway to make it so apparent that he
panted to be interviewed, yet since it was done, it
would have been better to let it go. The apology
made the thoughtless think. And the more the
thoughtless thought, the more they found that
the word “willing” ,1ust fitted the circumstances.
Mr. Conway acknowledged that he was most happy
to be interviewed. He was most happy to tell
Victoria, through the Herald, that Melbourne
was as beautiful a city as any of its size he ever
saw; that he was profoundly identified with the
spirit and feeling 1 of the London people * that he
had not much of an opinion of Roman Catholic
Mivart; that he would rather be governed by a
Constitutional Queen, like Queen Victoria, than
by a President (which by no means fits in with
some terribly violent things we see attributed to
Mr. Moncure D. Conway by the American papers);
that if there was anyone he loved better than the
Queen it was the Prince and Princess of ™ ales; that
the Constitution of Victoria approaches very near
to ideal perfection; that nowhere in London could
one hear such impressive sermons as the Rev.
Charles Strong’s; that the people of Melbourne
are brimfull of cordiality and culture; that he
entertained a warm admiration of Christ, and that
he considered the staff of the Daily Telegraph
copper-headed. Now, why a man, who must have
learned the Age by heart, should have to be apolo-
gised to for having been described as willing
to rub this pestachio-nut oil on the scalps of the
“ holy shows of civilization ” is a mystery-especi-
ally when that man is Mr. Moncure D. Conway.
But the greater the truth the greater the libel.
BRIEF MENTION.
A New Zealand analyst has found lead
in sausages. This is what makes the Rum leaders
so heavy.
More sleepers found across the Hobson’s
Bay railway line. The lawyers are suspected.
They got £20,000 out of the last accident.
A Sydney sage has discovered that nine
quarts of winter-milk are equal to fifteen quarts
of summer-milk. Of course. There is more ram
in winter,
A needle was found in an egg the other
day. A correspondent writes to ask us how it got
there. We don’t know. How does an idea some-
times get into the head of an alderman ?
The Captain of the Vernon (bless his old
slippers I) says that “ the boys sent from the coun-
try are more trouble than all the rest put to-
gether.” Perhaps, being anchored far away at
Cockatoo, the Captain considers Woolloomooloo
Bay the country.
Recently there were confined in one cell
in a lock-up, in Queensland, two lunatics, two
Kanakas, a Chinaman, and a shepherd with the
D.T. A poet and a lay reader were brought in
during the night, but in deference to their position
they were accommodated in the horse-box.
The Crown Prosecutor has declined to file
a bill against Henry Milford, of Charters Towers,
solicitor, charged with attempted suicide. The
Prosecutor probably reasoned that, Mr. Milford
being an attorney, his little throat-cutting was
done in the public interest.
The officers of the Harmy are publishing
week by week their biographies in their organ,
and they relate with great apparent cheerfulness
when, how, and the number of times they got
“ lumbered” before they bathed in the sunshine of
glory. We have a whole gallery of these noble
commanders in the army of martyrs before us
now, the appearance of each being about as at-
tractive as a land-sale lunch. A perusal of these
biographies is calculated to startle anyone; but it
is more especially calculated to startle anyone who
is in the habit of keeping a large number of
fowls. » ™>
A howl is justly being raised against Chi-
namen holding their annual corroboree in Rook-
wood cemetery. The yellow-skins, having already
beaten our cabinetmakers, gardeners, &c., right
out of the market, are now intent on entering
into competition with a certain section ot the
Sydney press in the business of amusing the Kook-
wood dead.
The bodies of a man and woman tied to-
gether, and with the eyes bandaged, were Ashed
up in a net near the English coast lately. The
London paper calls this “ a moving story of de-
votion.” Noble heroism, no doubt. But suppose
it happened to be a moving story of vengeance t
Suppose some gay young Hebrew [Suppose
boshl PoohI-En.fi.]
Dr. Wilkinson, B.A. and several other
things, delivered a lecture on “ The Human Body,
and how it is made,” at the Glebe, the other night.
According to the advertisement, the lecture was
to be “illustrated by a human skeleton. We
should like to have been there. The lecture must
have been a high-toned affair, when a boarder
from a Philip-street hash-house was chartered to
illustrate it.
The son of a baronet—Mr. Lynch Bloss—
is missing from London, and an active search is
being made. There being now a choice assort-
ment of boilers on the Circular Quay, we might
recommend the authorities here to turn their
attention in that direction. We shall lay claim to
no portion of the reward. Philanthropy is not so
extinct as some imagine.
A Queensland member of Parliament was
nearly drowned the other day while out boating
with a kanaka. The anti-coolie papers say that it
he had been drowned it would have been a judg-
ment of Heaven on him for having employed
coloured labour. And if the kanaka had been
drowned, what then ? Why then we should think
that would have been a judgment on him for keep-
ing company with a member of Parliament.
A Mossgiel man recently sheared 201 sheep
in one day. That man now is a here in the country,
and when he walks the Deniliquin streets he is
bowed down before and worshipped. Yet here are
we who have fought so hard in the cause of inno-
cence and morality, and done so much for the
clergy, not unlrequently compelled to put on an
air of abstraction when passing certain duly li-
censed premises and to sit in the shoe-shop while
the man behind the screen gets our heels levelled.
u G. R. Dibbs, Colonial Treasurer, recently
telegraphed to W. H, L. Bailey of the Gundaqai
Herald:—“Hope your new venture will be sue-
cessful.” Ever since this, Bailey refuses to drink
out of a cup thaf is not fitted with a moustache
shield, and has chartered a boy to keep his stirrup,
irons in a state of high polish. This makes old
Blworthy so pensive that he is unable to properly
concentrate his thoughts upon the composition of
that masterly al nanac which year after year has
so increased his reputation and built up his re-
nown.
Poor old Peter Campbell was preaching a
short time ago, at Rockhampton, on the parable
of Dives and Lazarus. When his sermon was over,
a man (described by the local papers as being “ the
worse for liquor”) offered him something in a
pewter. Our reverend friend of course declined
the offer, and the man was covered with confusion.
Evidently he had got some hazy idea from the
sermon that the preacher was Dives, and was in
Hell, and wanted a drink. We admire Mr. Camp-
bell’s abstemiousness all the more, because we feel
we could not imitate it. We say it with sorrow,
but we know we would be weak enough to he
mistaken seven days a week for Dives on the same
terms.
Forty-two times convicted, of all the
crimes in the calendar, and a few others not yet
classified. Such was the record of a young man who
was committed for trial the other day for stabbing
his mother-in-law with a carving-knife. Curious
anomaly of human nature I A man will take a
header into the vortex of vice and crown himself
with glorious infamy, and then turn suddenly
round at the last and perform a virtuous action.
We suppose this young man will get a testimonial.
We will subscribe to it, if anybody else comes for-
ward. We have had a mother-iu-law. She was the
jewel of her sex, until she tried one day to walk
down-stairs on her head. We have been frequently
complimented on the gracefulness of the epitaph
we wrote on this occasion.
The people of Temora are accused of dis-
loyalty, because they did not allow same excited
creature to sing “ God save the Queen” at a con-
cert given down there lately. This amuses us.
To judge from the prevailing belief in the neces-
sity of praying for her salvation, a stranger to our
customs would think that the Queen was a har-
dened and almost hopeless criminal. And yet It is
well known that she is the most pious woman In
her dominions. We are a queer people.
Lord Rosebery—who, by the way, will soon
gladden this end of the world with his noble pre-
sence—considers that “the most precious reward a
man can hope for in public life is the friendly re-
cognition of his fellow-countrymen,” A good
many men In public life think this way. Friendly
recognition—in this country, at any rate—usually
means a square feed, accompanied by adulatory-
addresses. Ask the Pass-up-your-plate-for-more
Ministry if it doesn’t. Sometimes, however, it
takes the form of eggs unboiled and ripe, not to
say rotten. You can ask a lot of people about
this.
We are beaten—and beaten by a woman,
too. The wife of a Victorian miner was found
dead, the other day. He husband stated at the
inquest that she had not been sober for one week
during twenty-two years. She is sober enough
now. At least, we don’t know. Suppose—a not
very wild supposition—that she died drunk. Very
well, it will be granted at once that it is not merely
the body that is drunk; it is the soul, or whatever
it is, that directs the body. Now, then, messieurs
the incurable sots, get a grip of this consequence
and shiver. If you die drunk—as you probably
will—you will go drunk into the presence of the
Recording Angel. And then ? Well, you will not
be likely to yearn for hot water in your rum there-
after.
This is all gospel truth, but we don’t indi-
cate the locality. They keep a grocery store, and
live on the premises, which are the property ox
the wife by legal right of marriage settlement.
The husband keeps the store, and contracts all the
liabilities. The wife keeps the house, and the
assets of the firm as well. She charges her husband
rent for his use of the store, but usually lets him
have as much credit as he requires. She rather
likes him to be in her debt in fact; it pays. After
falling to pay for the goods he sells in the store,
the husband is at last sued by some angry creditor,
who takes out an execution. The wife as land-
lord, however, is before him with a warrant tor
rent, which completely sweeps away all the siock-
in-trade. The husband then flies—has a meeting-
no assets—gets his discharge—begins business
again—gets more credit—fails to pay, as before,
and is again protected by his spouse. And so this
happy pair keep up the round of business anu
pleasure from year to year —everything, including
the creditors, being done legally and in order, me
only hitch in the proceedings being the nine
matrimonial that keeps this devoted pair glued su
lovingly together.
POUR CHANGER.
(Respectfully inscribed to a lot of people.)
This awful bosh makes us inclined
To foam and do what’s rashly fistic,
It is when out they daily grind
Those sick old phrases journalistic.
What must the man be who will bw
What we so often have derided,
“ Pull justice” was done every way „
To the “ good things the host provided.
And when to balls these Goths are sent—
O for a batten stout of hickory!—
We hear “ a pleasant night was spent
By all the lovers of Terpsichore.” „
And when we learn the “ table groaned,
That someone gave a “ good rendition,
We shrink next day, it must be owned,
From opening that grim edition.
The men who e’en will broadly state f
“ No blame attaches to the driver,
For tram the synonym create ..
Of “ Juggernaut” or some such ,£ u1 '
Are worse than “ coign of vantage gbou i
Or those who mildly us are riling,
With “fairly in their several roles, „
And make all “ bonifaces” “smiling.
Oh, how we long for something new!
We at the feet of him would grovel
Who’d up and, in a daily, do
A picnic par. in manner novel I
But no I we see that we still must
Put up with this strain most unp '®, i }®, llgs ed,
Learn how the “ good things were dl „
And how “ no constable was present.
’Tis better, though, this ancient song— ,,
“ We have been shown a monster t nr 3
Than Latin that is spelt all wrong, |t -^y."
And French that’s compassed in re
And yet of words there is no lack _
In this our not too rhythmic ling 1 ®;
But, then, from off the beaten tracK
Thqso numskulls cannot yet, by jms
THE MASHER.
AN OPAL RING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hear the song we have to sing
Of a wondrous opal ring.
It was something to admire:
Burning like a core of fire
Was each stone, each stone of three
In that ring set wondrously.
And the man of whom we sing
Went and bought that opal ring.
And he took the little glove
From the white hand of his love;
Then upon her finger he
Placed the ring right tenderly.
“ Dear,” then cried that little duck,
“ Won’t this bring me evil luck?”
“ Tush I—a superstition stale
That is but an old wife’s tale;
So he answered with a sneer —
“Never heed such tales, my dear.
He was right, we think: don’t you ?
But the old wives’ tale came true.
For, sirs, it to her did bring
Evil luck, that opal ring.
How, you ask, did this occur?
Simply, then, he married her I
If you’d know more, why you can,
Sirs, the writer was the man !
A “TRY ON.”
THE CLOSE OF THE HONEYMOON.
Young Bride (winningly, before the mirror): “Isn’t that a nice little figure, povey
Not Quite So Young Hubby (who has just received the bill): Pretty little figure
it runs into three figures, and I’ll soon let you know—(lets her know).


* Monoure Conway has been telling the Mel-
bourne people that both with man and animals
(not that there’s much difference, now-a-days) the
male offspring inherits the qualities of “papa,”
and the female the qualities of “ mamma.” How
we live and learn. Until Moncure came along, we
were under the impression that both sexes alike
favoured “papa” for personal peculiarities, and
“mamma” for mental endowments. Anyway,
we knew a man, troubled with a curve in one leg,
who gave unto the world sixteen offspring—nine
girls and seven boys—each one of whom had the
same identical curve. Fact. The girls are grow-
ing up now, and wear long dresses, and so you
can’t see their legs, don’t you know ; but they’re
curved all the same for that. On the other hand,
in support of Moneure’s statement, look at the
present Lord Derby. There’s an instance of the
impetuous genius of the father descending to the
son—bless him 1
The Bega paper gives an alluring picture
of how a capitalist with a thousand pounds to
spare could become an arrogant millionaire in, we
forget how short a time, by Investing his money
in a billiard-room in Bega. The editor evidently
can play. This seems a sound speculation, but we
hardly think anyone will go into it who can get a
chance in the company we are about to start.
Listen. We have often thought that the wheel-
power of the city could be utilised in some fashion
—that is. that the wheels of the cabs, drays, trams,
and suen like might be made to drive something
or grind something besides performing their or-
dinary office. We propose, therefore, to start a
knife-cleaning and general grindery company—the
wheels of cabs, &c., to do the work. All each share-
holder has to do is to take out his knives or forks
or axes when he gets into a cab or a ’bus, and
grind away. The little difficulty about getting the
knives and forks will, of course, be only a trifling
drawback to those who dine out or attend public
banquets. We will sell this idea for threepence.
The editor of the Northern Territory
Times wants his money in. “ We cannot,” he
cynically remarks, “ live on air ; we must indulge
m beef and mutton occasionally, and our employes
expect to be paid every month.” That man has
evidently been on the staff of the Evening
Alfred, since he talks of indulging “in beef and
mutton ‘ occasionally.’ ” We trust the subscribers
will pay up, for the spectacle of an editor bare-
footed through having had to indulge in soup and
boot would be one—to us, anyway—full of the most
poignant humiliation.
We hear that Flood, the American “ Bo-
nanza King,” is going to build a house which will
cost just a million pounds sterling. And we sup-
pose when it is built, and he is not receiving com-
pany, he will be sitting in the wood-house in his
shirt-sleeves, playing flve-up with his butler. The
ideas of modern times are all crooked. The
Egyptians knew better. When they wanted to
spend money on a building, they spent it on a
tomb, arguing—and very reasonably, we think—
that the house we inhabit for ever is of much
more account than that in which we live but for a
few short years. But this does not suit the Ameri-
can mind. If the American mind set itself to
spend money on a mausoleum, that mausoleum
would pay its own cost as an advertisement-hoard-
ing. What is the use of big houses, anyway ? We
have lived in houses of all slzes-from a two-
roomer to a gaol—and we can safely say that size
does not ensure happiness.
She had money in her own right; she was
was also blessed with a moustache. A good many
Sydney women wear moustaches. He was a penni-
less new-chum, who wore tight pants, gaiters,
a broad-brimmed hat, and a collar which would
certainly have severed his jugular if he looked
round suddenly. Well, beloved her for her money,
and perhaps she saw It. Anyhow, she was trying
to get rid of him; and, after he had stuck to her
closely on the block for half the afternoon, she
suddenly discovered that “she had to go into the
hairdresser’s for an hour.” But she was a colonial,
and unversed in the suave ways of Mayfair.
She acted her part abruptly; and she let him see
his “ show ” with her was hopeless. He perceived,
in fact, that she could never love him. Then he pre-
pared for her a Parthian shaft. “So, Alice,’ he
remarked, icily, “you’ve got to go to the hair-
dresser’s, have you?” “Yes, Reginald,” she re-
plied, “ I’m going to Mrs. Blank’s ball this even-
ing, and I want to have my hair dressed.” “ In-
deed,” he observed (looking tenderly the while at
her upper-lip), “ I thought you were going to have
a shave I”
W. Blank was a stock-rider and the noted
blower and masher of the Yangbilly station. Not
content with setting his cabbage-tree and eagle
eye on the servants of the station, it was often
enough whispered that he had more than once
galloped his fiery steed over unnecessary fences
when the governess took her walks abroad. But
William got his cheque a fortnight ago, came to
Sydney, purchased a silk sash, tipped his hat one
side of his head, bought a suit with a crease down
the legs and back, and sallied forth to see life.
How well he saw it may be judged from the fact
that he was back to the station in a week without
a rap. One of the station hands happened to see
him at the Coffee Palace; and now William’s glory
is departed. He came in in circles and sat down.
There were some baked potatoes on the table; and
he reached for one, and solemnly fixing it in an
egg-cup, set to work. He tried it with a spoon,
and nicked it with a knife, but could make nothing
of it. “ Shay, waiter! wash short (hie) eggsh keep
Sydney, eh ? Take ’em ’way; bringsh shomefn not
shtough 1” Now, when he starts to relate one of
his “mashes,” somebody in the hut says “eggs,”
and William’s mouth closes like a tram-door on a
gouty foot.
Little Bailey, as all the world knows, is
now at Gundagai, running a paper which, we have
no doubt, will one day convulse the universe, if a
stray goat does not in the meantime eat up the
type. He is as fond of colour as ever. In a late
issue he tells the story of an old colonist who lives
down there. This old colonist says he remembers
when the blacks were so thick in that part of the
country that a white msn dare not go out in his
baca yard to chop wood until nightfall. But, ihei ■
was one white man who was a terror to the natives.
He was over six feet high in his stockings, ami
“ could roar like a lion.” But let Bailey tell it :—
“ Drunk or sober, wherever he camped, he was in
the habit of roaring out once or twice in the
night, and it had the same effect on the blacks as
a tiger’s growl on a Hindoo. Whenever the blacks
heard the roar, they would strike camp and run
like chased deer till they had tot beyond earshot
of that terrible voice.” We believe this, because
we have met descendants of that man. They are
now travelling with opera troupes, and produce
exactly the same effect on us as their ancestor did
on the blacks. The rest of the story is, we fear,
somewhat apocryphal. But Mr. Bailey having made
up his mind that there is no hell, moral reflec-
tions are lost upon him.
The other day a civil baptism took plaoein
a Freethinker’s family, and they crowned the kid
with a cap of liberty, and afterwards anointed it
with hair-oil, and all the “god-parents” promised
and vowed was to “endeavour to mane a good
citizen of their namesake.” Now, with orthodox
people it is different. Here a party, whose word
wouldn’t, perhaps, be good at the pub. for a pint of
porter, promises, though perchance he may have
been robbing a graveyard on the night before, to
take all the youngster’s sirs upon his own shouldei s
for ever so long, though that doesn’t prevent his
god-child from getting spanked whenever it is
caught with a list-lull of the family iam. When
we were christened, we were given a ridiculous
fork and spoon, and a low-comedy mug that no
one was ever allowed to drink out of. We recall
with satisfaction that the fork and spoon weie
stolen by the dustman, and that, surreptitiously
abstracting the goblet, we gave it as a trophy for
the victor in a cat-hunt. If we take a fancy to
get christened again, we shan’t object so much to
the liberty-cap and hair-oil, but if there's a de-
cently clean sexton la our parish, we shall en
dear our to worry along without the god-parents. ‘
His Honor’s Law off Libel.
Hra Counsel, to Plaintiff; “ Now, sir, you’ve been proved a cattle-stealer, forger, and habitual swindler, as alleged ; but there’s no truth in the statement that you have been
fined for furious driving.”
Plaintiff: “ Never fined in my life for furious driving.”
His Honor: “Ah! In that, case, I shall direct the jury to find a verdict for the plaintiff. The defendents have rendered a great public Jaervice by exposing the rascality of
plaintiff; and the jury will mark their sense of that service by giving the plaintiff substantial damages.” (Verdict, £6000 with costs)


Mr. W. E. Smith’s Manufacturing Sta-
tionery and Printing Works, George and
Bridge Streets, Sydney.
There are very few houses of any description o
business in Sydney that have exhibited sue
genuine enterprise as that of Mr. W. E. Smith, th
the well-known manufacturing stationer anc
printer of George and Bridge streets, in thi
city. Starting in a very unpretentious wa
some few years ago, and indeed with
small connection, Mr. Smith commenced busi
ness in a portion of Bridge-street which wa
by no means considered a likely stand for anything
very promising. By degrees some rather superio
descriptions ot bookbinding and printing began to
show themselves in the neat little window at 30
Bridge-street, and then Mr. Smith’s manufacture
found their way into'the various Exhibitions, win
ning the highest prizes, and attracting the atten
tion of the whole commercial community. In
creased business meant increased room; and Mr
Smith set about extensive alterations, and he has
now an establishment in Bridge-street of handsome
exterior, and great capacity within for business
It is to this enterprise on the part of Mr. Smith
that the wonderfully changed appearance o
Bridge-street is largely due ; his improvements
were followed b\ others —and the much desirec
change still goes along. In the handsome and ex-
tensive show-windows, the proprietor exhibits
samples of the new and elegant description o
commercial and office material and furniture—al
of which are to be found in 1 rge bulk stock else-
where on the premises. All the newest descriptions
of office appointments and stationery are exhibited
in the front show-room, which maybe looked upon
as the most extensive and best lighted in the city
At the left of the show-room are the offices of the
clerical staff and the private office: and from an
inspection of the books, allowed us for the purpose
of information, we can say there'is no printing-
house In the colony with a better or more profitable
connection. It would seem as if the trade of rnosi
of the principal mercantile houses, banks, steam
and public companies, &c., had been secured by
Mr. Smith; and certainly that great result can be
accounted for solely on the ground of competent
workmanship, excellence of material, and the most
unvarying punctuality. The Brilge-street pre-
mises, which form a line spacious house, extent
to Queen's Place, and up to within a few months
ago Mr. Smith occupied the whole of them with
the various branches of the manufacturing, sta-
tionery and printing, keeping his bulk stock in an-
other part of the city; but further additions being
necessary, Mr. Smith opened his George-street
premises—the finest in the city—for the whole
mechanical and manufacturing branches. These
splendid premises are shown in the accompanying
engraving. They form a magnificent block, and
have been wisely built to suit the big future of
the trade of this city. They'are splendid structures,
whose massive foundations are based on the solid
rock, and in respect of the floor space, the lighting,
the ventilation, &o., they are decidedly among
the best edifices recently erecied in Sydney—
which now, of all the cities in the Australian
group, is fast re-building itself. The upper
lloois of the building are strengthened by
stout ironbark girders, and on these are fixed the
beds of all the machinery, minimising the vibra-
tion in the most successful manner. A flood of
light enters each department from both ends ot
the building; and, in respect of gas-fittings, venti-
lation, water supply, and conveniences, the best
systems have been adopted throughout, without
regard to cost. To save time and expedite busi-
ness, telephonic communication is established with
the Bridge-street house; and on the premises are
also lifts and hoists fer the removal of light or
heavy packages of piloting material or work in
various stages of execution. The bookbinding
and ruling departments are both extensive, and
are furnished with the best appliances procur-
able. Some of the ruling work in progress at the
ime of our visit was probably the finest yet
done in Sydney. The bookbinding is very ex-
tensive, and altogether of a substantial and
superior description. Mr. Smith is the largest
account-book manufacturer in the colonies,
and his stock of leathers, which are kept
under lock and key in a separate department, run
up to near upon £1500. An inspection of this stock
or leathers would probably surprise many peisons
n the stationery trade in this city. In these depart-
ments are lots of appliances new to us in this part
of the world —such us blocking (in gold) presses,
bench presses, and cameo or relief embossing
presses. All these moan a lot of money, and both
enterprise and judgment on the part of the pro-
prietor. The result is, of course, seen in the supe-
rior w ork. The printing department, as is the case
w ith the others, is years ahead of the big offices wt
have here been accustomed to inspect. The
establishment having only recently been furnished
in its more Important features, I here are appliances
exhibiting the meet recent inventions, insur-
ing si>eed, doing good work, and sa\ ing the hem y
waste of the ordinary machims Mr. Smith has,
among others, six or seven of the latest patten
letterpress and lithographic machines; and with
regard to the latter, positions are ready t'oi
two splendid new appliances, now shortly to
arrive. Even to the means of forme-washing
and litho-stone preparing, the old system has been
displaced by one infinitely' more expeditious and
(effectual. A splendid 20 b.p. gas engine drives the
whole of the machinery above and below, its bed
(being solid ironwork girders of great strength.
The typographical depai tmentis brilliantly lighted.
The ripper room is used for storage of open stock,
required for the printing work below, and where
there fs such a large consumption of valuable
paper, cards, &c., a system is necessary', and the
one here adopted is n good one. The Bi idge-street
bouse furnishes tire George-street store, and the
receiving clerk here furnishes the printing and
other departments with the paper, cards, &c., for
each day’s work, and for all these suppilts there
are the necessary daily dockets and weekly returns.
At the end of the upper floor is the engraving
department. Mr. Smith’s steel and copp> r plate
printing has latterly very largely extended,
jtnd he has now' two experts, from whes
thands, with the aid of marvellous scientific appli-
•aaoes, comes work of the very highest excellence.
The one striking feature of the whole business is
d.he (thorough, inflexible system adopted for its
(Control, The work goes on from day to day with-
out a single hitch—an Immense output of superior
ibook-binding and printing is secured, and a safe
and an efficient cheek is held over the employment
of labour and the consumption of material from
one year’s end to another. And certainly no house
in Australia is better represented in England and
on the Continent than Mr. Smith’s. All the excellent
novelties introduced for the stationery or printing
trade abroad are secured for Mr. Smith’s business,
and not a single lino of goods is used but what is im-
ported direct. The goods are purchased at the
various depots abroad and forwarded to the Lon-
don house in Bow Lane, Cheapeide, whence they
are shipped to Australia. In the first eight months
of 1883, forty shipments of goods were received;
tuid advices of goods to come by other vessels up
,to Christmas show that, in respect of printing
tnateriai, machinery, &c., we have here an estab-
lishment that will well compare with anything to
be found elsewhere in the colony. Employment is
given to near upon 100 hands. Few men in this
community have exhibited sucli untiring industry
as Mr. Smith, and very few indeed have won such
success in so brief a period
A wag remarked the other day that it was
bad to have Mr. Ninian Melville, M L.A. (who’s an
undertaker), for Government whip, us ho might lie
found driving his party to the cemetery. Perhaps,
however, Niniau’s little game will be to “ take the
measure ” of the Opposition.
Writing to the Times, Mr. Murray Smith,
the Victorian Agent-General, told the British pub-
lic that the Irish informers, on board the Pathan,
had been merely “requested” by the Melbourne
authorities not to come ashore. He did not think
it necessary to mention that twelve able-bodied
p dicemen were told off to give effect to the
4 ‘ request.” In the same way the Czar requested
ih s loving people to conduct themselves at the late
coronation, and had sixty thousand men under
.arms to back up his desire.
Mr. Humphery: “Ministers have been
kept at very high pressure during the recess.”
M’Elhone; “Their bingles have.” Mr. H.: “They
have discharged a most important public duty.”
Another member: “Tell us what they disgorged ?”
Tnis is the way in which members spend their time
“in the interests of the country.”
“ HIS LITTLE EIGHT.”
“ The Rev. P. B. Boyce, writing to the
Sydney Morning Herald, says the enforcement
of the Sunday closing during Mr. Cohen’s ad-
ministration has not been as successful as under
Mr. Foster’s.”
’Tis the Boyce of the Herald, wo heard it com-
plain,
Foster closed all the pubs., now they’re open
again:
Under Cohen, it now is the parson’s sad fate
To see threepences drop once again in the plate!
The pubs, get it all, now, with C. at the helm,
So we don’t admire mucli that Cohen of the
realm.
A fair show’s all we ask, and, if things go thus
far.
Why, the least we might have is a box in the bar.
If the people will drink, and will not sing nice •
psalms,
They could recollect, surely, the clergy have
palms!
Though we do not ask much, yet no parson can
pray
With effect, if he don’t get his eight meals a day.
Dan O'Connor and M’Klhone have taken
up scats ■ n tho Opposition side of the house. Dan
has not offered any excuse for the change, but the
snappish way in which he spoke to Mr. Stuart the
other night with respect to a statement regarding
the Woolloornooloo tragedy shows that peisonal
feeling bad something to do with it. It is evident
that there was reasonable foundation tor the
rumour that vvas current last session that Dan was
a very much disappointed man—that beheld the
opinion that the right man had not been appointed
to the position of Postmascer-Ueneral As for
M’Blhone, no doubt the Goverumentare pleased at
the change which he has made, because it can be
said with truth that lie is much more dangerous as
a supporter tban 'a.s an opponent. As an as-
sumed supporter of a party, he knows no con-
trolling power, and the Igast canpv Reader of an
Opposition can easily tngke rise of njm as a whip
with which to lash Ministers; in Opposition, he i§
carefully allowed to do as lie pleases, and, when
there, his raving is just so much stage thqpder.
No one who knows this wondopfu J politician ever
expected that he would long remain, as tie ety)ed
himself, the “boss” of the Ministry.
A correspondent says of Mr. Dailey’s ora-
tory “ Is is always studied, never improvised,
the language kid-gloved and bejewelled with
Semitic taste, its paunch inflated with false pro-
portions, all bristling with barren and indefinite
terms, parvenu and elaborate without profundity,
affirmative with moonish certainty, ratiocinative
without logic, dogmatic without conclusion and
without proof, dull to move, inspissated with
saliva, fevered with spasms, and original only so
far as that the speaker speaks what had beiorp-
hand been written.” And yet, perhaps, the best
speech we ever heard Mr. Dailey make was purely
impromptu. Our correspondent on this occasion,
merely paraphrases a diatribe of Mr. David
Bucuanan’s. By the way, David never says a good
t hing Impromptu. Dailey does. David carries in
his poi ket, for months at a stretch, epigrams made
at the expense of a political enemy, and intended
to be used at the proper time. His denunciation
of M’Elhone, for instance. David doesn’t tit the
epigram to the speech; he makes his speeches sub-
ordinate to his epigrams. Mudgee Taylor, too, has
so far written and committed to memory his Par-
liamentary speeches, but we think it will be found
this session that he is endeavouring to speak 1m-
p i mptu.
AVANT—ET AP11E3.
“Mr, Humphery said it was owing to his
being one of the junior members of that House
that the duty devolved upon him of moving the
adoption of the address in reply to the speech from
the throne, and he hoped that whilst he was dis-
charging the duty entrusted to him, he would
have the generous forbearance of more experi-
enced members.”
There was a nice member called Humphery,
Who said that he felt most uncomfery,
Lest he make a sad mess
Of that brilliant address—
The usual bosh that’s so trumpery.
Yet, in a few weeks’ this same Humphery
Will ask for a railway and some ferry;
And, if not polite.
He will treat them that night
To a dressing that will be called rum very. I
The genial While, an ex-P.M. aud now
M.P.—an extra large-sized man with a vet y small
boy’s voice—asked the Premier the other night
whether the Government intended to bring In a
bill to “ eradicate” flying foxes. Mr. Stuart—who,
as everyone knows, or ought to know, is a born
humourist, of the ultra Scotch type—replied that
it would be rather a difficult matter to “ eradicate”
flying foxes, but perhaps not such a difficult thing
to “exterminate” them. Those who saw the
twinkle in the Premier’s eye, and the graceful
way in which he stroked his chin, recognised in
him a man who felt that he had made a capital
joke; but every one did not see the joke. Lite-
rally, of coui-se, to “ eradicate” means to pull out
by the roots; but the word is commonly applied
in a much wider sense. The standard dictionaries
give the same meanings to “eradicate” and “ex-
terminate.” This must be consoling to Mr. White,
as it saves him from the ignominy of being crushed
by a facetious blow from a Scotchman.
If the populatjop of the United States and
the different countries of Europe goes ou increas-
ing at its present rate, unchecked by wars, epi-
demics, or other exceptional causes, the United
States will, in ijfty year# hence—that Is, 1933—be
peopled byl$0 millions of inhabitants; while the
population of liugsja wijil be 15§'milJions; of Ger-
many, 83 millions ; Qf Great fJrltaJn, 63' millions;
of Austro-Hungary, U millions; of Italy, 43 mil-
lions; and Prance will rank but sixth, wjth 43 mil-
lions of inhabitants.
“ Buchu-paiba.” Quick complete cure,
all annoying Kidney, Bladder and Urinary Diseases.
Druggists. Moses, Moss & Co., General Agents,
THE M.L.A.
I’m the member for the borough,
I And my policy is “thorough;”
So I scorn to pay attention to your taunts;
I Since my conduct’s most consistent,
In so far that I’m jjersistent
In providing for my cousins and my aunts.
An aboriginal romance was concluded at
Millicent (S A,), when two aborigines who bad
eloped were married in full episcopalian fashion
by a clergyman, and duly kept their marriage up
at night with festivities. All the darkies now want
is to be educated in the divorce law.
The Sydney Druids had a high old time at
Tattersall’s rooms, the other night, when they
banqueted Mr. J. H. Davies, who for a great many
years has done the order real good service. Mr.
Davies, we may tell peopie, is tho astute gentle-
man who acts as financier at the Evening News,
and dispenses cheques with a lavish generosity
which invaiiably makes the fortune of tho police
court reporter. The Order of Druids appears to
be a most respectable one, sound financially and
free from religious and political squabbling. But
for all that, we don’t want to be Druids. We saw
the show the Ancient Order made at the Cook
statue festival. It will live in the memory of
man when the statue Itself shall have crumbled
and the name of R. B. Smith is forgotten. Of
the four thousand members only about t n
mustered courage enough to don their puadiug-
cloths and horse-tail beards on the occasion
of the procession. AVhen the Dnxids came
along even the dingiest houses began to smile
and the crumbling facades of the condemned build
ings shook with laughter. As for the human spec-
tators, it seemed as if thousands of them had sud-
denly struck a Hill End dividend. Three of the
noble old Druids were gouty; the balance had
either got their pudding-cloths too long or too
short. It looked, In fact, as if the noble and ancient
Order had been engaged in stealing other fellows’
nightgowns. As for the beards, and diadems of
bay-leaves, these were profuse—as may be Ima-
gined, for it wasn't likely the demonstrators
wanted to be ever recognized again. All the ’bus-
horses took fright at the chief priest and his
reaping-hook. Though the crime c in never ac-
tually be proved, It is conjectured that J.H.D. was
chief priest, and that both Jackson and Hayes were
in the shafts pulling the royal carriage along.
“ What you do, boy ? ,r
It is rumoured that a certain unctuous
politician will contest the next vacant electorate.
This has caused some excitement amongst the
Shroud’s subscribers, and there Is, we hear, a run
on emery-powder for bone-polishing in several
cametei les.. A West Sydney agitator condemns the
Land Bill. This lituc cloud might, however,
disappear from the political horizon were a gust to
blow from one‘of the Government offices at thp
rate of say £350 a year Mr. A. Gl Taylor is going 1
to bring In a law to deal with legal practitioners.
The simple public have been dealing with the
lawyers too long. In future, let bills and bills only
deal with thqm. Ttyerq’S million# in the Idea-•
The instructlofis gi’\ eli to the; Standibg Orders
Committee of the Assembly to consider theadvi'sac
bleuess of adopting the new rules of the Commons
means the invention of a gag for Buchanan,
M'Elhone, antj Taylor,
MR. W. E. SMITH’S STATIONERY ESTABLISHMENT, BRIDGE-STREET.


Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 33rd October, 1883.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.—tenders are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a tile of which
Is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received a t
this office.
Construction of Works, 3rd Sec-
tion Illawarra Railway.
Renting’ Refreshment - room,
Penrith Railway Station
Erection of Court-house and
Lock-up, Candelo.
Erection of Shed, Public Wharf,
Bellinger River.
Erection of Gaol, Bathurst.
Repairs, &c., Post and Tele-
graph Cilice, Inverell.
Punts for Colo and Sackville
Reach, Hawkesbury River.
Punt for Darkwater, Belmore
River.
Bridge over Niue Mile Creek,
near Bingera.
Bridge over Cockburn River, at
Wilson’s Crossing.
Bridge over Jounama Creek,
road Tumut to Kiandra.
Supply of Iron, Railway De-
ment, 1884.
Iron Railing, &c., Post and Tele-
graph Cilice, Wollongong.
Blue Metal, Roads Department,
1884.
Bridge over Belubula Creek at
Blayney, and
Bridge in approach to Bridge
over Belubula Creek at Blay—
ney.
Supply of 200,000 Compressed
Rail Keys.
Construction and Erection of
Chimney at Redfern Station
Yard.
30th October,
at 11 o’clock.
Talbingo Hill, Contract 1m, road
Tumut to Kiandra
Supply of Ironmongery, Hoads
Department, 1884.
Supply of Shipchandlery, Hoads
Department, 1884.
Additions, &c., Court House,
Darlinghurst.
Road from Peat’s-road to Bay
of Bar Island, Contract 27m.
Drain Pipes, Hoads Department,
1884.
Iron Castings, Railway Depart-
ment, 1884.
6th November
at 11 o’clock.
Purchase of Hight to Collect |
Tolls and Dues for years 1881 |
and 1885.
13th November,
at 11 o'clock.
Bridge over German Creek, on
Coast-Koad, Richmond River.
Construction of Tramway,
Waverlcy to Bondi.
Bridge at Two-mile, Warram-
bool, road Walgett to Eury
Eury.
20th November,
at 11 o’clock.
Supply of Rolling' Stock, Hail-
way Department.
18th December,
at 11 o'clock.
Manufacture and Supply of
150,000 Tons of Steel Rails.
10th February.
1885,
at 11 o’clock.
F. A. WRIGHT.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
33rd October, 1883.
TO BUILDERS AND CONTRACTORS.
HOSPITAL AT QUARANTINE STATION,
NORTH HEAD.
TENDERS will be received at the Treasury,
until noon of TUESDAY, the 30th Instant,
from persons willing to contract tor the construc-
tion of a Hospital at Quarantine Station North
Head, In accordance with plans and specifications
and general conditions to be seen at the Treasur y.
The site of the proposed bin ding will be pointed
out by the Clerk of Works at the Quarantine
Station.
Each tender must be accompanied by a Treasury
receipt, acknowledging the deposit of £100, to bo
hclil at the Treasury as security for the due per-
formance of the contract.
I enders to be addressed to the Under-Secretary
for Finance and Trade, and endorsed, “Tender for
Hospital, at Quarantin e Station.”
GEORGE R. IHBBS,
The Treasury, New South Wales,
33rd October, 1883.
TO PIPE-LAYERS AND CONTRACTORS.
SUPPLY AND LAYING OF WATER-PIPES,
QUARANTINE STATION.
TENDERS will be received at the Treasury,
until noon of FRIDAY, the 2nd November,
troni persons willing to contract for the supply'
and laying of Water-pipes at the Quarantine Sta-
tion, at North Head, in accordance yvith plans and
specifications and under general conditions
to be seen at the Treasury. The route of the pipe
tl ;ack will be pointed out by the Clerk of Works,
at the Quarantine Station.
-y as security
formance of the contract.
Tenders to bo addressed to the Under-Secretary
for Finance and Trade, and endqrsed. “ Tender for
Station ° f * ,)es u,ul Pipe-laying at Quaiantine
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
23rd October, 1883.
TO FENCERS AND CONTRACTORS.
FENCING AT QUARANTINE STATION,
NORTH HEAD.
TENDERS will be received at the Treasury,
until noon of FRIDAY, the 2nd November,
from persons willing to contract tor the erection
of a hence at the Quarantine Station, North Head,
in accordance yvith plans and specifications and
under general conditions to be seen at tho Trea-
sury- The site of tho proposed Pence will be
pointed out by the Clerk of Works, at the Quaran-
tine Station.
Each tender must be accompanied by a Treasury
receipt, acknowledging the deposit of £50, to be
held at the Treasury as security for the due per-
formance of the contract.
Tenders must be addressed to the Under-Secre-
tary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed, “Ten-
der for Fence at Quarantine Station.”
GEORGE R, DIBBS.
Sent post free for is. stamps to defray postage.
“TRUTH,”
A TREATISE showing the under-surface evils
ot society that cause Impediments to Mar-
riage; Celibacy; Woman ; Advice to those about
to Marry. Also, the Injury caused by the use of
Tobacco and Alcohol; How to Regain and Preserve
your Health ; See., &c. Address
R. T. SEBBY, M.H.,
DEVONSHIRE ST., SURRY HILLS, SYDNEY
TO PROFESSIONAL TROUPES.
NOW open for engagement at NYNGEN, near
Railway Station, the
“ASSEMBLY ROOMS,”
large and well-appointed HALL. Apply to
HEARD & M‘KKNN A, Agents'.
lilaaMICi!
Correspondence Solicited
WITH RESPONSIBLE PARTIES
I* FOB THE LEADING ,
SEWING MICflHE OF THE- WORLD.,
Full particulars, catalogue and prices I
.mailed on application. 1
<s SEWING MACHINE CO.
EVERY Dr. Marstoi?’s New Work
MAN
SHOULD
READ
Describing how sufferers from
Nervous and Physical Debility,
Mental Decay and all disorders
resulting from Excesses, Indis-
cretions or Overwork, are per-
manently Cured
Without Stomach Medicines.
wkak, nervous. and impotent
MEN RESTORED TO
VIGOR, HEALTH & MANHOOD
Consultation with Physician
and Book FREE. Address—
Marston Remedy Co.,
72 E-I3. BITS :r, 3t:iTZT.
So far, the only laws the New Guinea
natives observe are the Lawes of the Bible.
Two Melbourne sweep-promoters have
“sloped" with £3000or £4000 public money.
“Rough on Rats.”—Clears out rats, mice,
roaches, flies, ants, bed-bug's, beetles, insects,
skunks, Jack-rabbits, gophers. Druggists. Moses,
Moss & Co„ Sydney, General Agents.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“ Furor Scribendi”: The Clontarf article
was written by Mr. Traill... .“J.W.E.”: Received.
— ‘ F- Mole ”; Thanks; will probably use shortly.
— A.E.”: In Melbourne “W.G.”: Will pro-
bably give you a show next week “ A.S.”
(Wagga): Not suitable in that form... “ Girondin ”:
Rubbish .. “.T.P.”: Can’t tell you.... “ H.W.A.”:
Can’t undertake to notice every C.C. concert
“H.C.E.”: Yes; brief and pithy “Zozomus”:
Not suitable.....“ Norman ”: Will consider
‘‘ H-T.” : Received. Will appear shortly, illus-
trated— ‘M.J.K.”: Your “original” sketch, dear
sir, is a tracing from London Punch “A
Fact”: No fear—“Wanderer”: Must stand over
for consideration.... “ M.C.” (Rockhampton): Next
week, perhrps —“B.p.”: Will consider for next
week— “ Mabel ”: Thanks. We went to press too
early for you last week, so condense this issue. ..
“Maud”: We quite agree with you. The other
account was published in preference, because it
happened to be in type “Lex”; No, Judge
Williams doesn’t carry his wig on his bicycle...
“John Phelan”; Right... “M.J.”: The man who
says he can cure cancer is, the odds are a million
to one, an impudent quack.... “W. Crellin”: Will
read and consider. Are you our old friend of the
Victorian M.D. ?—“B.J.”: The clergy object to
Mrs. Hampson because there are already enough
old ladies in the business “ J. Martin”: Thadeus
O’Kane was beaten in the Charters Towers elec-
tion. The polling was, however, very close in-
deed “L.W.”: No. Cynical people say that
the reason Farnell had gout in his head was
that Nature abhorred a vacuum “P.J.”: No;
we are bald-headed ourselves, and to have no use
for hair-dye. But you can always tell a man who
dyes his hair. Even supposing a dark handsome
young man “ assisted his moustache with
dye, everybody on the block would notice it—
that is to say, they would notice the dye rather
than the moustache “G.B.” : Can’t say
“Albion”: No; but we thin k that the reef most of
the Northern steamers strike on is James Hen-
nessy’s —“Uralla”: You surely know that the
Importation of dogs to N.S.W. is no longer per-
mitted.... “Marco”: The Argus and Australa-
sian, of course, say nothing; but the Age copies
a paragraph from the Otago Daily Times to the
effect that the well-known individual in question
left N.Z. in debt £70, £80, less or more, for victuals.
— “A Wellwisher”: Rather crude for printing..
“ M.B.F.”; Pretty ideas, imperfectly expressed ...
“W.G.”: Of no Interest as you put it “J.A.B.”
(Young): The name of the very person you want
mentioned is written so carelessly that it’s illegible.
— “Resident of Goulburn": Should send your
name “X.Y.Z.”: Thanks “J.C.W.”: Thanks,
but we cannot insert sentences with hidden mean-
ings — “H.S.”: Much obliged for Liverpool item;
but there are strong social reasons against mention-
ingtheother affair. .“Wanderer”: Under attention.
— “Denman”: (I) You can't expect the country
papers to keep on lauding a barrister who, not
being a member of Parliament and the possessor
of a free pass, has to pay his travelling expenses.
(2) “All drinks sixpence” in the provinces —
“Law Hargrave”: Apparently malicious, and of
no general interest “ Ulenspiegel ” : We are
obliged for your communications, but as we don’t
waste space in The Bulletin, we are compelled
to, as you say, “fossick things out of the letters,
put them in the paper, and pass them off as our
own.” This may or may not be “ ungentlemanly
in the extreme,” still it's our style of doing things,
and we find it answer. It you so choose, you are
perfectly welcome to regard The Bulletin as a
mere compilation. There’s nothing new under the
sun, dear boy. “I have gathered me a posey—
mine but the string which binds it together.”
You’ll probably tell us this isn’t exactly what
Montaigne said; however, it’s near enough.
We do not undertake to return rejected
communications. Writers should keep copies.
Raynor, who won the Adelaide six-days’
tournament, wants to walk young Scott, of N.Z.,
for the championship of Australasia.”
The steamships bring news of the big
marine earthquake Northward. It looks as if the
whole earth was going to be rent aSunda.
Hon. James Hoskins is back from England,
and is, we are sorry to have to state, as gouty as
ever. So that gout isn’t always the result of luxu-
riousness.
The mortal remains of Mr. N. P. Bayly
having been brought from England, the funeral
moved from St. Mark’s, Darling Point (the bells
of which, but a few short months ago, rang out on
the occasion of the deceased gentleman’s marriage),
to \v averley cemetery, on Tuesday last. Sic cst
vita!
A new rendering of an old verse by Sir John
Robertson :- J
“Classification is vexation,
No prelease twice as bad;
What is to be
Puzzles me,
And the Land Bill drives me mad.”
Old John Keegan, of Penrith, died at
Bathurst recently. He was brimming over with
humour up to the last. In this life ho derived a
good deal of pleasure from the confusion of mar-
ried men, when he asked them in company, “Is
your wife living with you yet?” Should he ask
this question in his present abode, trouble will
certainly arise.
Miss Genevieve Ward is nowin Melbourne,
and has managed to get into the Age a yarn about
her interview with the White Czar concerning a
faithless Imperial Guardsman or Field-Marshal, or
Bomb-Bummer, or something. We’ll reprint the
whole of this pretty story when the gentle Gene-
vieve comes to Sydney, and swears to us on her
bended knees that it's true so help her Arthurisky
Garnerovitch—and pays us cash in advance.
Here is a little story—all solemn fact, and
but a few days old. The Ministers of a certain
colony up South were considering in Cabinet the
list of names submitted for the new batch of
honorary magisterial appointments. One name
was, by common consent, struck out. But, by
some wonderful mishap, the deleted name still
remained on the paper, and was passed along to
the Government Printer. Old Cattlebrand, seeing
his name among the elect in the Government
Gazette, wrote immediately to the Government,
thanking them for the honour, &c., and assuring
them that “ he would at all times ho ready to no-
habit with the Police Magistrate.” Bullockey’s
substitute for “co-operate” being considered a
little too steep oven for a J.P., the old boy was in-
formed that his name had been left in by mistake,
and that the Government had no intention what-
ever of “elevating” him. So he was asked to
resign. But he swore he wouldn’t. Then they
superseded him 1
Mrs. Jane Hill (whose grandmother, it is
said, lived until she was 120), died at Gloucester-
street, Sydney, last week, at the alleged age of 110.
She came to N.S.W. 43 years ago, and was the
mother of 11 children, most of whom are now
dead. “ Her youngest daughter, aged 60, attended
her funeral,” says the Evening News, which
never tells a lie. AsMrs. Hill was HOand her young
est daughter 60, it follows, doesn’t it, that the
youngest daughter aforesaid must have been born
when her mother was 50 ?
A case, even sadder, perhaps, than that of
Florence Waddllove, came up at Parramatta Police
Court. Deceived and disgraced in her country
home, with breaking heart and blistering feet, the
girl left the scene of her shame, penniless and on
foot, and came to the Lyinar-in Hospital. As soon
as she was able to leave, she entered service, but
reason gave way to the mental and physical agonies
she had suffered. She was found nude in the street,
and of course arrested. Last week, the pitiful sight
was seen in the Court, of a young woman in dis-
ordered dress, hair streaming, haggard face and
babe at breast, charged with insanity.
Two weddings will shortly take place in
the ranks of the Ministry. The Hon. G. H. Reid,
the Minister for Education, espouses a charming
and accomplished young lady, the daughter of a
gentleman whose commercial interests are bound
up with the collieries: the Hon. the Minister of
Justice has been so fortunate as to secure the
affections of a fascinating young German lady re-
cently arrived in the colony. We see Mr. Dailey
in his element: “And now, ladies and gentlemen,
I ask you to drink,” &c. The Stuart Government
having thus given practical proof that its policy is
not only liberal, but matrimonial, it is bound |
lion the annexation of New Guinea by Queensland,
and then winking - at General MTver’s filibustering
expedition. Why doesn’t MTlwraith lit out a fili-
bustering expedition, too ?
D A- tumour went around the Exhibition
< V r l*p’ W^et l ?i r John Robertson was seen on
the platform at Mrs. Hampson’s meeting, that he
had been deputed by the Ministry to offer the lady
a seat in the Upper House.
to command the support of every right-minded
woman in the community. And here is a bit of
news for the constituents of the eminent Mr.
“ Jack ” Purves, M.L.A. Jack unguardedly al-
lowed physiognomist Simms to gaze on his Roman
features and soaped moustache in public the other
evening. “ This gentleman is fonder of the ladies
than any of the other gentlemen on the platform,”
remarked the professor, whereupon the audi-
ence yelled with delight. “ And this is the
kind of man he is. He’s a pleasant fellow, who
comes into your office and rubs his hands and
smiles, and says it’s a nice day. You’d not think
he had any business to do with you, but you’ll find
after he’s gone out that he’s got to windward of
you. and that he meant to screw something out of
you all the while.”
Hiscocks announces his last week. His
“bon.” occurs on Friday night. Everybody will
crowd in—Indeed, if only to gaze on Nicky La
Peuillade, and mai'k how pretty ho looks when he
is blacked up.
Probably the neatest thing in the decorative
art that is to be seen in Sydney may be viewed at
Mr. R. A. Watson’s Paragon Hotel, Circular Quay.
It is the window of the Paragon bar, at that popular
house. The design is unique, and the execution a
decided artistic success. The whole work is both
National and Australian. On either side are life-
size figures of Britannia as Empress of the Seas
and of the god Neptune, with attendant figures
and foliage representative of the flora and fauna
of Australia. The emblems are in gold with illu
ruinations in silver, and the foliage, illustrative of
the soil, is artistically blended in gold and silver
so as to produce an attractive background, and
heighten the effect of the whole. Commerce and
Industry are represented with much typical effect.
The artists are Messrs. Palmer and Weekes, who
have long been in the front rank in the decorative
art in Sydney, and this last work is in every way
in keeping with their reputation. Mr R. A. Watson
deserves well for his pluck and enterprise in estab-
lishing the Paragon Bar, which from its privacy
and its appointments will prove a boon to the
neighbourhood,*
The height of impudence.—The Queens-
land Government refusing to sanction an English
expedition to New Guinea. The depth of impu-
dence—The English Government refusing to sanc-
MR. W. E. SMITH’S MANUFACTORY AND PRINTING WORKS, GEORGE-STREET.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general .]
RACING INDEX.
Readers will find the column regularly-
headed with a list of fixtures to be attended to
within the month; followed by names and dates
of Race-meeting-s to be held in the more distant
future.
THE MONTH’S FIXTURES.
Hay N.Y.R.C October 25, 26.
Berrlma District Races October 30. 31.
Tamworth Handicaps close November I.
Victoria R.C. Spring Novembers,6,8,10.
Victoria Trotting Club Races November 7.
Yass Entry November 7.
Coolah General Entry November 8.
Williamstown R.C. (V.) November 9.
Clarence River J.C. (Amateur) November 9.
Coolah (Annual) November 9.
Canterbury (N.Z.) J.C November 6,7,8.
Yass Races November 9.
Moipeth Races November 9.
Tamworth Weights November 10.
Auckland (N.Z.) R.C. Races November 10.
Murrumbidgee T.C. Wagga, Weights Nov. 12.
Murrumbidgee T.C. General Entry Nov. 16.
Murrumbidgee T.C November 21, 22, 23.
Tattersall’s Cup Weights November 26.
A.J.C. Summer Cup Weights November 26.
Bendigo J.C. (V.) November 28, 29.
Narandera J.C November 29, 30.
Hartley District J.C. Spring November 29, 80.
Liverpool J.C. Entry December 1.
Campbelltown Handicaps close . December 1.
Bega Entry Closes December 3.
A.J.C. Summer Cup, and December Stakes,
first forfeit December 5.
Campbelltown Weights December 6.
Temora Races December 6.
Campbelltown General Entry December 10.
Bega Weights December 10.
FUTURE RACES.
Tamworth R.C. (Summer) December 4, 6.
Warialda J.C December 12,13.
Camden and Campbelltown J.C. Races Dec. 15.
Liverpool J.C December 22.
Victoria Amateur T.C December 26.
Pleasant Creek (V.) December 26.
Clarence Tattersall’s J.C December 26.
Tattersall’s (Annual) January 1,1884.
Bega J.O. Races January 10,11.
Sydney T.C January 26.
Tasmanian R.C. (Summer) February 13,14,15.
Wanganui (N.Z.) J.C. Autumn March 6, 7.
Hawkesbury R.C (Autumn) April 3, 5.
AQUATICS
Double Bay Regatta October 27.
Brett v. Wood, Melbourne November 7.
Balmain Regatta November 9.
Champagne Cup November 17.
All Comers Regatta December
National Regatta January 26, 1884.
ATHLETICS.
A. M'Leod v. W. Jobson, Taree October 27.
Wallsend Athletic Club Meeting November 9,
Bathurst Sheffield Handicap November 9.
Junee Junction Sports Nov. 9.
Hay Athletic Club Sports Dec. 28, 27.
Blayney Sports Dec. 26.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ B.C.” (Petersham): At Manchester (Eng-
land) on 19th August, 1865, W. Richards and W.
Lang- ran a mile in 4 min. see— “ Prana”: The
best pole-jumping record is that of Tom Ray, of
Ulverstone, who at Preston recently got over lift.
4j£in., beating the previous record (his own) by
half an inch — “T.J.C.” (Harden): There Is no
such machine as a totallsator legalised In New
South Wales — “W.W.” (Buroka): The ninth day
after the first of a month will certainly be the
tenth of that month The race-horse “Tarragon”
always ran in the name of the late Mr. W. Town...
“ Anonymous”: It is a mistake to answer questions
sent anonymously. The name of the ques-
tioner should be enclosed as guarantee of
hnnq, fldes. Mr. John Thompson was very
ill a few weeks ago, but we believe he
is now much better “ The Cup”: Archer won
in 1861 and 1863, the two first Melbourne Cups,
carrying 9st. Vft>. and 10st. 21b. respectively. The
next heaviest weight on a winner was list, lib., on
Glencoe, four years old, in 1868 — “Old Times”
(Lachlan): That reliable horseman, “Jemmy”
Ashworth, piloted Zoe when she ran second for the
first Champion Race, and won the second and third,
at Sydney and Ipswich. Mr. John Tait principally
superintended the training of all horses running
in his name ...“Ragpicker”: You are mistaken.
The racehorse Whalebone, with which Mr. John
Tait won one of the first N.S W. Legers, was not
by Sir Hercules, but by imported Speculation,
from imported Paraguay, the dam of Sir Hercules.
Racing Considerations.
Onk of the chief considerations attaching to the
turf is how to breed racehorses, var excellence-, and
yet, although this has occupied colonial horsey
men since racing has been an institution here, no
theory of *‘ nicks ” has been discovered which will
ensure any mare throwing a winner; neither can
anyone say he has arrived at some particular
“placement” of “in-breeding,” or Judiciously
regulated introduction of an out-cross which can
be said to “ remove all difficulties,” and reduce the
breeder's business to an A.B.C. standard. We have
theorists in plenty, who work out whole lines,
pages, or even volumes of figures, to show con-
clusively that the approach of two “red” num-
bers within a certain distance of each other, or
the conjunction of a couple of “blues” must of
necessity bring about a successful candidate for
Derby honours, at least; but. so far as I am aware,
there has not yet turned up a thoroughly ac-
credited example of the “ red letter ” theory
answering the crucial test of practice, any better
than that useless little animal, Ell, jusilfled the
prophecy that he would be the best horse of his
year, or the invincible Flaneur sided with the scribe
who said a colt so bred wasn’t worth leading
home. It is worth noting, as I have observed
during some years past, that theoretical horse-
breeders, as a rule, do not remain firmly faithful
to the cause for any great length of time; and I
know numbers of whilom unflinching apostles who
have quietly seceded, but without making any
talk about their severance from the "blue and
red.” One large breeder of horses remarked to
me, not long since, that “he had been for some
years breeding according to the ‘ lines ’ and theo-
ries of other people, who had over-persuaded him;
but that now he intended following his own Judg-
ment ’’—which said not much for the stability of
the foundation he had been depending on.
After an average life-time spent among horses
bred for the turf, I ve no doubt that every one of
these theories is continually and pointedly upset
by practice, and that the only reasonable way to
secure race-horses by breeding is to go straight for
winning families, and never leave them while they
can be utilised. From the earliest days of the
English Stud Book, we And this x/restigc of win-
ning families sticking out every where; and
whether we take our start from the sires’
standpoint, or that of the dams, it will be
found leading straight to the same result with
the most unerring certainty. My arguments,
It is as well to say, apply to thorough-bred stock,
pure and simple, for although here and there we
have instances of mares without a pedigree throw-
ing racehorses, it would, most likely, be at least
disappointing to expect race-horses so bred to turn
out successful sires. Many Bulletin readers may
let their memories carry them back just a few
years, and find scores of instances waiting them to
establish the unreliability of doubtfully-bred sires
when race-horses are wanted, though such freaks
of nature often are credited with very good-
looking stock. Sir Hercules, of honoured colonial
memory, was the sire of racers from all kinds of
mares. But it has certainly not turned out a
profitable game to continue breeding from the
cross-bred scions, in the hope of the produce
throwing back to Sir Hercules, instead of to the
common dams; and, as a matter of fact, I don’t
think any but the purest bred Sir Hercules horses
were successful at the stud, no matter how super-
excellent they might have been on the turf. The
first generation of Sir Hercules’ stock, however,
whether thoroughbred or only common, could all
race; and I’ve little doubt that a very large
proportion of the Sir Hercules mares would
make a good name at the stud, though un-
fortunately it has been difficult, if not abs -
lutely impossible, to get several of the best oi
them to oreed. Thus, Zoe and Uarbelle, though
themselves great performers, gave the turf no
valuable accessions in the way of produce; which
is much to be regretted when we remember the
excellence of the family offshoots from Zoe’s own
sisters—lo and Waimea—and also that Cossack, so
celebrated as a sire of winners, was their own
brother. Had Zoe been a good breeder, she would
doubtless have proved a worthy member of the
family as a stud matron, her breeding on the side
of her dam mid Flora M'lvor) being undeniable.
The excellence of this line, has been handed down
by lo, through her daughter Ida, whose sons are:
The Pearl, The Spy, and The Arrow, by New
Warrior; and The Gem, by Kelpie; and whose
present two-year-oid, The Jewel, by Goldsbrough,
is possibly the most promising of the lot to look
at before trial. Barbelle’s family has not per-
petuated its excellences, though the two brothers
and the sister herself were exceptionally good;
but there were great disappointments over the
sad failing off from The Barb to his progeny, of
which no doubt Tocal was the best; and The
Barbarian stock failed to atone for the short-
comings of their cousins. The imported Gemma di
Vergy was fortunate in failing across a good strain
of olu Sir Hercules at Mr. Tom Tindale’s at Bylong;
for, hidden away as he was for those years, he had
few, if any, chances of distinguishing himself,
except through the Sir Hercules mares; and that
was now he first made the good name he still
retains, and will no doubt yet improve upon.
It may not be uninteresting to compare a few
winning families in this and the old country; and
as for utility, I reckon that a little such comparison
is as good as six months’ figuring in half a dozen
colours. And taking, first of all, a few celebrated
mares, 1 may to a great extent liken our Fawn of
to-day to the old English Penelope of 70 or 80
years ago; for both have been wonderfully cele-
brated through their stock, and each made espe-
cially so by being mated with one sire; for the
grand old Penelope produced the Derby winners
Whalebone and Whisker, besides the celebrated
brood mares Web and Wire, all by he one sire,
Waxy; and The Fawn has given our turf compara-
tively us great celebrities in Richmond, Bosworth,
Palmyra, rfegenhoe, and Warwick, all by one sire,
Maribyruong. The only difference between these
families is that Waxy, the sire of the former, was
a Derby winner, while Maribyrnong, unfortu-
nately, could not distinguish himself on the course.
The Fawn, like Penelope, is a very highly bred
mare, being by imported Premier, from imported
Melesina by Harkaway, from Potteen by Young
Blackloek; while the famous dam of whalebone
and Whisker had for her dam the renowned Pru-
nella by Highflyer, and Waxy was by PotSos by
Eclipse, in both these successful brood maies we
see the immense value of running strains of blood.
The tame of the Waxy line is too widely known to
need any more publicity here, and the names of
Prunella and Penelope are quite at the top of
England’s historical stud matrons. But of the
other mare’s lineage it may be said that The
Premier was a right good colt and good winner
during his only season (three years old). His sire,
Toryboy, was the fastest two-year-old of his year,
and never ran after. He (Toryboy) was by Tom-
boy from Bessy Bedlam, Tomboy being by the
Legor winner Jerry from Beeswing’s dam, and
Bessy Bedlam by the Leger winner Filho da Puta.
The Premier’s dam (Baroness) was by Leopold
from Duchess, winner of The Leger 1816; and it is
hard to think of a better winning family. So, too,
with The Fawn’s dam, Melesina, daughter of the
great Irish wonder Harkaway, who was decidedly
the best racehorse of his day, and sire of King
Tom from Pocahontas. I don’t know any finer
winning lines than those in the two families I have
started with.
Comparing once again, I draw a parallel between
Pocahontas, the wonderful old Glencoe mare of
the English Stud Book, and the younger Sappho,
of our own, and this comparison, belt understood,
extends only to the production of winners, got by
different sires The old English mare is credited
with Stockwell and Rataplan, by The Baron; King
Tom, by Harkaway; and Ayacanora (dam of Talk
o’ the Hill), by Birdcatcher; and alongside ot this
family of crack horses we may very fairly put the
following sons and daughters of Mr. George Lee s
Sappho:—Lecturer, Kingsborough, Savanaka, by
Kingston; Emilyand Nellie by imported Tim Whif-
fier; and Spiningdale and Saionara, by Maribyr-
nong. The suitability of Sappho to mate with all
sires is due in no small degree to her being a
daughter of old Sir Hercules; but her dam. the
older mare of the same name, also produced win-
ners, by Little Jo .n, Sir Hercules, and Kingston;
to wit—Forrester, The Premier (Ruddle’s), and
Paraguay, by Little John; Sappho and Chancellor,
by Sir Hercules; Adventuress and Jocasta, by
Kingston. We have surely, here, the great value
of winning families; every horse mated with
Sappho being full of such prestige— and see what
wonderful strains we have to go through in run-
ning out the doings of Pocahontas at the stud, with
the names of Stockwell, The Baron, Birdcatcher,
Harkaway, Faugh-a-Ballagh, and other such.
Without pleading guilty to any treasonable design,
I claim my right to express a doubt whether any
son of Sappho -vill ever hand down his racing
qualities to his descendants, as Stockwell, King
Tom, and Rataplan have to theirs ; and in
this particular I find no similarity between
the two dams can be struck. Mr. Reynolds’
Ida is another mare that may be compared
with Pocahontas in t-m matter of producing
good racers by different sire?; and she is of so
excellent a pedigree on her dam’s side that it
is wonderful not to find any of her sons making a
name as a sire. It must have been an unlucky
choice, when lo was mated with Vanguard,
a horse that appears to me to have done no
more good for the Tocal stud than the Grand
National winner, Freetrader, and that's not saying
much. I can find little, if any, winning prixtige
about the family of Vanguard; and the non-success
of IdaV sons at the stud must be debited to t he
genealogy of her sire, rather than to that of old lo
- as grandly bi ed a mare as was ever foaled. And
here it is not too much to add the name of Flora
MTvor to my list of worthy comparisons with
Bngll-h stud celebrities.
1 fear I have gone to such an extent as necessi-
tates closing this missive, though I m a long way
from being through with my subject; and, there-
fore. 1 must perforce defer a few more remarks
on this particular consideration of “ Breeding for
Winners.”
The Budget.
[BY NEW WARRIOR.]
With Caulfield just over, and the V.R.C. Spring
looming’ in the immediate future, we can’t be ex-
pected to have many small goods in hand worth
caldng attention to for the coming week ; and
there are very few fixtures of any sort that need
1 'Okmg after before the Plemingtou bell is sounded
by Mr. Byron Moore on Saturday week, which
will be the 3rd proximo. What has to be done
may be summed up thus:—When this is read on
Thursday, Wollongong races will be concluding,
and a commencement beinpf made with atwo days’
meeting at Hay. Then at Uerrima there will be a
couple of da\ s’ sport on Tuesday and Wednesday
next, whence our Sydney sportsmen can proceed
on their way South, and be in plenty of time to
see the contests for Maribyrnong Plate and V.K.C.
Derby. Tamworth handicaps close on Thursday,
the 1st November: which suras up all I need send,
in the reminder line, before the Melbourne Cup
carnival.
It Is with extreme regret I chronicle the demise
of that well-known sportsman, Mr. Orbell, of
Temora,—the accident I referred to last week
having- had a fatal termination. The deceased
fentleman’s remains were interred on Friday,
he townspeople were very sorry, when the news
became known; and it couldn’t well be otherwise,
seeing- that Mr. Orbell had identified himself with
every movement that was likely to benefit the
district ot Temora. No one deplores the sudden
call ot the grim scythe-bearer more than the
writer, who knew Mr. Orbell well, and had many
opportunities of noticing his ready response to the
call of charity; and his cheery manner and open
purse will be many times missed at this golden
township.
lam pleased to learn that there is every proba-
bility of another successful meeting being held at
lemora. The committee have acted wisely in
altering their days of racing to the 6th and 7th of
December instead of those previously fixed upon,
to avoid clashing with the Narrandera Jockey
( lub. Already the sum of £250 has been promised
as added money, with an expected addition of a
century or so, which ought to attract a fair share
of entries; and I congratulate the “powers that
be, that in the face of many difficulties this pro-
mising club is not yet likely to die out.
Upwards of a “century” has been promised to
the Morpeth Jockey Club for a day’s racing to be
held on the 9th November, and this will give many
horses of mediocre quality about the district a
ehance of paying for their oats.
The newly-formed Mudgee Tattersall’s Racing
Club has a balance on the right side, a thing not
known in Mudgee for years previous; and as there
are now many “ good men and true ” at the wheel
there’s no reason why isthmian games at Mudgee
should not again occupy the prominent position
in the sporti g world they were wont to boast of
in olden times. I hope it may be so.
A country paper tells me that Wing, own brother
to Sting, by Grandmaster from Queen Bee, has been
leased to Mr. R. Rouse, junr., for racing purposes
Wing I have not yet seen, but he is spoken of as
being a gentleman all over, and Mr. Rouse, who
made his name famous with the high-priced Waxy
and afterwards with the doings of Sting, may yet
astonish the sporting world with this latest addi-
tion to his stable. There are few, if any, better
judges than Mr. Rouse, junr., and I wish him all
sorts of luck with Wing. Mr. 8. A. Blackman, of
Cooyal, near Mudgee, is the breeder of these racing-
celebrities. 6
The two-days’ meeting to be run off at Berrima
during the coming week, promises, judging by the
handicaps for the principal races, to provide good
sport. The imposts appear, from a cursory glance,
to be well apportioned, and, although at the very
top of the tree, Old Gold should be very hard to
beat in whichever race his party elect to send him.
Berrima is easily reached from the Metropolis, and
doubtless Sydney cits, will avail themselves of the
opportunity of being present. I hope to assist at a
successful meeting.
Tom Brown has been rather unfortunate with
his charges of late; and being beaten with such
supposed good things as the “two Lord Exeters”
and Stockdale seems like a probable run of ill luck
in store for this clever and successful trainer. In
Garfield, however, ho has a colt of undeniably
good quality, and it may be hoped he will make
up for a whole list of other shortcomings.
In the present days of tipsters’ troubles, it ap-
pears to be the correct thing to hark back and
refer to one’s success in the matter of picking
winners: and as the three I selected to do battle
for me in the Caulfield Cup produced the winner
and the third, I need no apology for making refer-
ence to such a slice of good luck. I hope it may
continue to be so through the V.R.C. Spring week.
Private information from Flemlngton speaks in
glowing terms of the Hon. John Bales’s flyer,
Honeydew, and several good judges fancy his show
in the Maribyrnong Plate as second to none. Such
infoi matlon, coming as it does from a reliable
source, will I am sure be received by race-goers
with pleasure, for there’s no more genuine follower
of “ the sport of kings” than the squire of Ducken-
fleld; and even at Flemlngton a win for the “black
and red" would be hailed with delight. Honeydew
has on several occasions given evidence of great
speed, and his winning the Maribyrnong Plate is
far from improbable.
The settling over the Caulfield Cup has passed
over well, as it always does when the “ books”
lose, which they did to a man over Calma’s win.
One not au fait with the doings of the sporting
purlieus would Imagine from the accounts in the
dailies that the race which has absorbed so much
attention of late was what is known as “ a good
betting one,” but this was by no means so, and the
“ring” can tell of having had a very troublesome
time.
I couldn’t help being amused while reading in
the Austkalasian that a person calling himself a
bookmaker, refused to accept Mr. Bond’s inti-
mation that he couldn’t bet In the Caulfield pad-
dock, and openly defied the Club. Of course, he
was speedily expelled, but again favoured the
stand enclosure with his presence, and plied his
calling; whereupon he was a second time removed,
and not without force.
The Victorian hurdle racer, Artful Joe, who was
injured in the hurdle race on the first day of the
Caulfield meeting, died shortly after; and Milpa-
rinka, by Proto-Martyr, from Sibyl, broke his
shoulder a few days ago, and had to be destroyed.
The three-year-old, Lecture, by Lecturer, was
rather roughly handled on being shipped to Wol-
longong a few days ago; but that hero of a hundred
lights, Twelve Years, objected to the steamer, and,
after all sorts of means had been resorted to to
coax him on board, the idea had to be abandoned,
and he was sent overland.
The following list of Caulfield Cup winners may
be of some use to my readers 1879, Newminster,
by The Marquis—Spa, 5 yrs, 8.10, 2m. 46U»s.; 1880,
Tom Kirk, by Ladykirk—Saucepan, aged, 8.3, 2m.
28j^s.; 1881, Blue Ribbon, by Derby—Derelict, 4 yrs,
7.3, 2m. 30s.; 1881, Master Avenel, by Julian Avenel
—Lady Wallaroy, 6 yrs, 7.12, 2m. 1882, Little
Jack, by King Cole—Charade, 3 yrs, 6.11, 2m. 4Us.;
1883, Calma, by Yattendon—London Pride, 4 yrs,
8.2, 2m. 42s. In '81, two Cups were run for, and in
both these races, as well as the one won by Tom
Kirk, the distance was a mile and a quarter and a
distance, which accounts for the various times
quoted.
“ Augur” says that Mr. W. Blaokler has lost two
fillies—one a sister to Cetewayo, and the other
sister to Henrietta—through protracted strangles.
The same authority also mentions the loss, by Sir
William Clarke, of a colt foal by Angler, from
Petrea.
The New Zealand horse, Sir Modred, showed such
bad temper on the way over to Melbourne that
his trainer left him behind at Albury, and he fol-
lowed a day later.
“ ToutCela,” in the Melbourne Sportsman, thus
describes the handsome vase presented by Mr. 8.
Miller, the master of the Findon Harriers, to the
winner of the Corinthian Steeplechase won by Mr.
Glasscock’s Revolver. “The design is elegance
itself—rich vine-leaf foliage in alto relievo being
around the neck; and on one side of the vase a
remarkably well-drawn engraving of a mounted
huntsman in the midst of his pack—taken from
one of Herring’s famous sporting pictures, called
‘Here come the hounds,—and on the other a
spirited picture of two jockeys, in racing costume,
clearing a flight of rails. It is made of rich
coloured 18-carat gold, standing on a black marble
base.” I should say the winner would be very
proud of this trophy,
Mr. J. P. Jost has written to the Melbourne
Sportsman, stating that it was at the purchaser’s
request the sale ot Le Grand was not to be made
public. Even so, there was no necessity for Mr.
Jost to flatly deny, after the sale was made known
all over the colonies, that the colt had changed
hands; and he might as well have left out the
addition that “Le Grand was not likely to be
sold.”
Notwithstanding that owners of horses have
timely warning given them, one often hears of
nominations arriving late, and now I have to tell
that the names of Kingdom, Morceau, and Daugh-
ter of the Regiment reached the secretary too
late to be Included in the lists of the Summer Cup
and Anniversary Handicap. The nomination of
Mr. Nolan’s Respite, 6yrs., was accidently left
out of these handicaps.
The respective clubs are to be congratulated on
the lengthy lists of entries received for the Summer
Cup and Anniversary Handicap, there being 94 in
the former and 98 in the latter. All the N.S.W.
cracks are engaged, and a few have been enticed
from Melbourne, but the sister colony’s support is
very meagre, and it’s not at all unlikely that we
shall have to race “among ourselves” for both
prizes. Victorians are not liberal in the patronage
they bestow on the good things of New South
Wales. Tattersall’s Cup closed with 90 entries, for
which we have no space.
V.A.T.C. CAULFIELD RACES.
The meeting was concluded on Saturday, much to
the profit ot the club, the credit of the energetic
secretary, Mr. Bond, and the satisfaction of a large
attendance of visitors from neighbouring colonies,
as well as the “ Home Circuit;” New South Wales
being especially well represented. The weather
was fine as could be desired; a nice rain on Friday
had made the course a trifle heavy, while laying
the dust. The fields were generally large as well
as of good quality, and the finishes as close as well
could be, in some cases. The race for the Cup gave
the “Fielders” 01 e more experience how clever
the public are at spotting a good thing. The
struggle between Calma and Stockdale was worth
going far to see, and resulted In a clever length
win, with Anglesey third. Mr. Wallace being a
thoroughly “straight goer,” his success was a
popular one. The son of London Pride has topped
the market since the dethronement of the uncer-
tain Yately; and. during the last couple of days
before the race, shared the honours of favouritism
with Footstep, who signally failed t© run up to
trials. The three first animals hail from New
South Wales, Calma and Stockdale having been
bred by the late Hon. E. K. Cox; and both are sons
of the lost sire Tattendon, Calma from imported
London Pride, and Stockdale from Stockdove,
Imported by the late Mr. Norman D’Arcy.
Anglesey was bred by Mr. W. J. Dangar, and is
by imported Hawthornden from imported Algeria.
The Winner has for a long time been looked upon
as one of the uncertain division, but his win in the
V.R.C. Produce Stakes, carrying 8st. 101b., beating
Segenhoe, Boolka, and others, in 2.11% was of suf-
ficient merit to give him a great show. His owner,
too, is one of the most astute judges, and, with a
large crowd of followers, there’s nothing to be
wondered at in the Bing being heavy losers.
Stockdale ran like a race-horse, as he undoubtedly
is, over the distance; and his party, who put their
money on at the last moment, were only just
“ pipped.” The “ going ” told on the heavily-
weighted Gem, Sardonyx, and Frying-pan ; the
much talked of Norfolk, Dukedom, Yately, Jo-
sephine, and Malua failed to realise expectations,
and the scratching of Sweet William and The
Israelite was a blow to a good many backers.
Game added another honour to the many gained
by his defunct sire Panic, and proved himself a
wonderfully good horse by his Hurdle Race win
with 12 at. 10 lb. up; and this is all the introduction
needed by the following statistics of the jumping
races.
The Nursery Handicap clearly proved that the
win of Mr. Smart’s latest purchase. Brown and
Rose, in the Sydney Turf Club’s Two-year-old
Race, was not by any means the fluke most people
imagined ; for she again triumphed over Lord
Exeter, and gave him 81b and a decisive beating.
The son of Tiara was made a big favourite of, and
as he got well away, and was in the front most of
the time, even his most sanguine admirers must
admit the filly’s superiority. I was pleased to hear
of the success of Brown and Rose over her dozen
opponents, and regret that she’s not in the Mari-
byrnong Plate.
The day’s events came off thus
Second Handicap Hurdle Race, of 100 sovs ;
14 mile. Game, 12st. 101b. (Corrigan), 1: Belle
Brandon, 10at. 51b. (Cree), 2 ; Avalanche, lOst. 71b.
(Battye), 3. Basilisk, Sinking Fund, and Devil’s
Hoof, ran. Betting : 5 to 2 v. Game. Won easily.
Time, 2mln. 57sec.
Nursery Handicap, of 100 sovs ; for two-year-
olds: 5 furlongs. Mr. A. F. Smart’s ch f Brown
and Rose (late Charming) by Somnus—Giggler, 8st.
21b, (Gough), 1 ; Mr. W. R. Hall’s eh c Lord Exeter,
by Julian, Avenel—Tiara, 7st, 81b. (Hales), 2; Mr.
S. Miller’s bf Cultee, by King Cole—Jenny Lee, 6st.
101b., 3. Sandal, Ferry Maid, Jack Daw, Lady
Bowena, Jeremy Diddler, The Frenchman,
Leporello, The Maid. Timboon, and Merrowie ran.
Betting—5 to 4 v. Lord Exeter; 6 to 1 bar one. Won
cleverly by three parts of a length. Time, 1
min.6% sec
Pindon Harriers’ Gold Vase, value 130 sovs.,
with 50 sovs. added; about miles. Mr. G. Glass-
cock’s Revolver, list. 51b. (Mr. W. Glasscock), 1;
Mr. S. Miller’s Kulkyne, list. (Mr. Cox), 2. Nine
others ran, but only one of them (Baronet) went
round. Time, 6 min. 50 sec.
The Cauleield Cup of 500 sovs., with a gold
trophy of 200 sovs., given by Messrs. N. and A.
Wilson; 1% mile. Mr. D. 8. Wallace’s Calma, 4 yrs,
8st. 21b. (O’Brien), 1; Mr. T. Brown’s Stockdale, 6
yrs, 8st. 71b. (Colley), 2. Mr. 8. Cook’s Anglesey, 4
yrs, 8st, Sir Modred, The Gem, Sardonyx, Frying-
pan, Boolka, Nicholas, Yately, Footstep, Matua,
Belmont, Joker, Squireen, Dukedom, Sparke, Pro-
digal, Josephine, Koh-I-Noor, Westbury, Kathleen
Mavourneen, Tabletop, Norfolk, and King’s Son
also ran. Time, 2 min, 42 sec. Betting—5 to 1 v.
Calma; 6 to 1 v.Footstep; 10 toleach v. Josephine,
Yately, Dukedom, and Belmont.
Open Steeplechase.— Rory O’Moore, 9st. 91b.
(Corrigan), 1; Euchre, list.71b. (Scobie), 2; Magician,
9st. 71b. (Hill), 3. Eight started.
Windsor Handicap, 6 furlongs. Hurricane, 8st.
51b., 1; Bis Bis, 7st. 71b., 2; Hawkesbury, 6st. lllb.,3.
Seventeen started.
BERRIMA RACES, OCTOBER 30 AND 31.
These handicaps were Issued on Saturday last:—
Broudeb Handicap, 1J4 mile: Old Gold 8.13,
Twelve Years 8.7, Sloth 8.5, Liberty 8.3, Belvldere
8, Friendship 7.13, Albert Victor 7.13, Macaroni 7.13,
Empress 7.10, Lecture 7.8, Kelso 7.5, Mirabeau 7.6,
Thakatnhau 7.3, Unique 7.3, Affection 7, Vldette
7, Carissima 7, Jet 6.10, Loiterer 6.5, Black Angel 6.
Berrima Handicap, about 1% mile: Old Gold
8.7, Twelve Years 8.4, Sloth 8.1, Liberty 8, Friend-
ship 7.13, Macaroni 7.13, Empress 7.13, Belvidere
7.10, Albert Victor 7.9, Lecture 7.5, Affection 7,
Mirabeau 7, The Demon 7, Jet 7, Vldette 6.13,
Unique 6.13, Carissima 6.10.
NARRANDERA RACE CLUB.
The following entries have been made for the
principal handicaps, for which the weights are due
on Friday next:—
Turf Club Handicap : Hector, Darkey, Victor,
Uncle Ned, Hope, Coolahah, Prudence, Mystery,
Terminus, Assyrian King. Nightlight, Blonde,
Tantaliser, The Spaniard, Omega, Carlssima, The
Rake, Trump Card, Omadhaun.
Town Plate : Substitute, Phelim, Lucifer,
Hector, Victor, Uncle Ned, Hope, Coolabah,
Prudence, Mystery, Terminus, Assyrian King,
Nightlight, Omadhaun, The Rake, Omega, Caris-
sima, The Spaniard, Blonde, Tantaliser.
A.J.C.
The Summer Cup, U mile.—Entries : First
Demon, Bristol, Ascot, Jack of Clubs, Wallangra,
SirModred, Segenhoe, Despot, Morpeth, Martini-
Henry, Gloucester, Game, Myles na Coppaleen,
Eva, Brian Boru, Twelve Years, Soldier Boy, Here’s
Luck, Old Gold, Faust, The Gem, Hazard, Essex,
Glencoe, Wing, Sweet William, Boscawen, Honest
John, Souvenir, Sloth, Coolabah, Hope, Erin,
Dagmar, Major, Favo, Kelso, .Normanby, Friend-
ship, Liberty, Lecture, Stella, Young Australian,
Primus. Gladiator, Rioter, Adamantea, The Bean,
Prlma Donna, Budellght, Mirabteau, Albert Victor,
The Demon, Belvidere, Mars, Envy, Polestar,


Roquette, Sancho Panza, Prunella, Boniface, Dio-
med.Snaveller, Isonomy, Phyllis, Bellbird, Empress,
Macaroni, Lord of the Lake, Jet, Sardonyx, Le
Grand, Albury, Willeroo, Coriolanus, Blue and
White, Muscat. Art Union colt. Sunshine colt, The
Drummer, Belmont, Archie, Delusion, Bon Bon,
Milbrodale, Pollio, Tabletop, Athena, Dukedom,
Pell Mell, Essex, Plunger, Norman, Respite.
SYDNEY TURF CLUB.
Anniversary Handicap, 1 mile 3 furlongs :
First Demon, Bristol, Ascot, Emancipation, Man-
fred, Twelve Years, Respite, Soldier Boy, Here’s
Luck, Eva, Brian Boru, Old Gold, Faust, Druid,
Glencoe. Kingswood, Myles na Coppaleen, Little
Mick, Sir Modred, Sweet William, Boscawen,
Honest John, Wallangra, Jack of Clubs, Segenhoe,
Despot, Morpeth, Gloucester, Martini-Henry, Sou-
venir, Maid of the Hills, Emperor, Wing, Sloth,
Ooolabah, Hope, The Witch, Dagmar, Brin, Major,
Prunella, Favo, Diomed, Normanby, Hesper,
Friendship, Liberty, Ooomassie, Young Australian,
Stella, Lecture, Affection, Sancho Panza, Primus,
Gladiator, Rioter, Adamantea, The Bean, Prima
Donna, Presta, Mirabeau, Albert Victor, The
Demon, Mars, Envy, Polestar, Roquette, Kelso,
Boniface, Emulation, Snaveller, Isonomy, Phyllis,
Bellblrd, Macaroni, Lord of the Lake, Sardonyx,
Le Grand, Albury, Willeroo, Coriolanus, Blue and
White, Muscat, Art Union colt, Sunshine colt, The
Drummer, Belmont, Archie, Delusion, Bon Bon,
Milbrodale, Pollio, Tabletop, Athena, Dukedom,
Pell Mell, Taurus, King of the Vale.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Miss M'Kelvie, while following the Rangi-
tikei (N.Z.) hounds, is stated to have cleared an iron
gate 5ft, 6in. in height, the distance from take-off
to landing being 33ft.
A Newcastle paper states that a horse
recently left there to fulfil its Melbourne engage-
ments, and, adds the coal city scribe, “ his owner
evidently intends him to win." Rather rough this,
on the owner!
James Rolfe, the champion bicyclist of
Victoria, and James Watson, late of Edinburgh,
are matched to ride six days—eight hours a day—
for £350 aside, to start on 5th November next at the
Exhibition Buildings—if obtainable—Melbourne.
A country paner states that Woollard and
Black defeated Meaker and Wilson in a double
scull race, at Merimbula, for £30, distance three
miles, in fourteen minutes ! The time is about fast
enough to enable the pair to concede Hanlan and
Lee a mile out of three.
Robertson, who recently beat Strong for
the New Zealand wrestling championship, is a
Maori, stands 6ft. weighed on the ground 17
stone, and is a very finely-made man. Strong’s
weight was 14 stone. He is also a very fine athlete,
well made, and stands a little over 6ft.
W. Snook, who by Ills recent victories over
W. (J. George is long-distance amateur champion
of England, recently ran 1500 yards in 3 min. 381-5
sec. at Aston, which Is about the best ever done at
this distance. Snook was born at Shrewsbury on
Peb. 3,1861. He is short in stature, and ordinarily
weighs 10 st. 6 lb., but when in condition and tho-
roughly trained to run, he just lowers the beam at
9st. 41b.
Mr. W. A. Long’s Tonans is engaged in
both the Cassarewitoh and Cambridgeshire at 7st.
11b. and 7st. 31b respectively. P. Gebhard’s Eole is
engaged in the same races at 8st. 131b. and 8st. 131b.
Bole is a five-year horse, by Bolus (son of imported
Lamlngton), his dam being War Song, by War
Dance (son of Lexington and Reel, by imported
Glencoe). As a three-year-old Eole started nine-
teen times, and won eight, and was second six
times. Last year he took part in fourteen races,
and was seven times first and five times second.
By the way, it is stated Mrs. Langtry rode Bole as
a hack during her recent American tour.
The buoyant bicyclist will do well to learn
the following little facts off by heart before he
urges the giddy wheel through crowded thorough-
fares. According to English law, a bicycle is a
carriage, and subject to the same restrictions. In
America a similar decision has been arrived at. A
case was tried there the other day, in which a
bicyclist was charged with assault and fined £6 or
30 days’ imprisonment, for knocking a man down
in the street. One of these days a similar accident
will occur here. And then the spider-legged youth
will have to sell his bicycle to pay his fine. These
remarks are not Intended to discourage, but to
warn.
Anent the well-known Slade-Sullivan
fight, Harry Montague, Slade’s manager, said: “The
size of it is this. Slade is a man wonder-
fully endowed by nature. He has had little
art, and seems in no hurry to acquire it. But were
he to act as he had been told, he would develop
marvellously. He has been an incubus on oui
hands. He is lazy. That’s the whole trouble. Ht
won’t train. I have time and again urged him to
walk, to ride, to do something to harden hit
muscles and put him in shape for the ordeal he
had to pass through, but he never minded me. Ho
was utterly heedless of my advice. Sometimes ht
swam. These South Sea Islanders seem to think
water their elemeny ust as much as land, and thej
freely take to it. He would swim miles, but he
would not walk them. The result was he came
before the public in a condition far inferior to his
opponent.”
Says an English paper:—" Since news ar-
rived that Iroquois had been defeated in two races
in America, lugubrious howls have been heard in
some croaking quarters about that weary twaddle,
the decadence or our breed of horses, and no doubt
we shall be sickened with a cataract of prolix
jeremiads on the subject. Putting aside the tact
that Iroquois has very likely not yet recovered
from the effect of his passage across the Atlantic,
it must be remembered that his form here was,
after all, nothing very rosy. He won the Derby
and Leger, but he beat as bad fields as ever started
for those races. When he met a good horse in
Bend Or he was defeated without a struggle, and
at Ascot last June he could make no sort of fight
with Tristan. No rational being could ever look
upon Iroquois in the character of a “flyer” who
had proved himself the superior of our best
English horses. Such thrice-abject maundering
is in the highest degree idiotic.” Still another
case of difficulty in negotiating their groats!
Writes a correspondent“ Alf. M'Laren
hung himself on the voyage over from Melbourne.
Twenty years ago he and his brother and Mat
Hardy divided the honours of pugilism amongst
them. His brother died about fifteen years ago,
and Alf, who married his widow, has since then
been keeping M’Laren’s Hotel in Ballarat. His
house was a great resort for all men of the ring.
He was a popular tenor singer, and, under the
name of Romer, has travelled with some of the
best Minstrel companies. It was he who was with
Pringle, the surveyor, when the boat capsized in
one of those sudden squalls that pass over Lake
Learmonth. They clung to the bottom for some
hours, until Pringle became exhausted, and,
bidding M'Laren good-bye, with a few parting
words to his relations and friends, sunk out of
sight. M'Laren was not drinking at the time of
his suicide, and, as he shipped under an assumed
name, it is probable that another of his many
financial troubles is at the bottom of the affair.”
The billiard match at Melbourne between
Weiss and Byrne, was a very pretty exhibition of
‘ all-round play, and the winner, if he will now—
in the days of his youth ’’—devote himself to
‘ spot” practice, might at somefuture time “take
down the number ,r of the best English players.
On his present form, Roberts, Cook—or even Peali
or Mitchell—would concede 500 points in a thou-
sand-game, with tolerable ease; for these men,
In competing with others who are not “spot-
strokers,” in the strict sense of the word, play out
for the “spot” in a manner they never dare to
attempt against one another. Even when it doesn’t
come off,” they have comparatively little to fear,
while the receiver of points, even when left “ on
the spot,” finds himself paralysed by the dread of
the awful things that may happen if he leaves the
red in the jaws of the pocket. Thus, whatever
skill he may boast in the stroke, is terribly dis-
counted when he meets a man much superior in
the same department of the game. Peall, the
English player, who has been doing great things of
late, was, five years back, quite unable to make
twenty consecutive “ spots ” (before a room-full of
people, at any rate), so there Is every encourage-
ment for Weiss to persevere.
regard to the sweep disclosures in
the Melbourne Herald, the Sun, a newly-started
Melbourne sporting paper, has stated that the
writer of the articles in the Herald was at one
time acting as advertising agent for the promoters
ot several sweeps, and that he appropriated the
money handed to him to pay the papers. That the
reason some sweeps were not mentioned was that
the writer was paid to say nothing about them—in
tact, that he was employed by three or four swin-
dlers to run down honest sweeps, so that they might
reap the benefit. That before the first article ap-
peared he had been trying to borrow money, but
mat now he can “flash” cheques and notes, the
proceeds of his wholesale libelling; and that he
0 i t^le Proprietors of the celebrated Polk
Ulub, the funds and promoters of which mysteri-
ously disappeared. The Herald man has taken a
criminal libel action against the Sun.
The much talked of Mitchell-Slade fight,
arranged for 11th September last, did not even-
tuate. The county attorneys of the counties in
yrmch the men were training wrote Mitchell and
Madden that their presence was obnoxious, and
that they must either leave or suffer the penalties
of the law. As the law makes even training for a
prize-fight punishable by Imprisonment for a term
of from one to ten years in the penitentiary,
Mitchell declared he didn’t propose to run any
such risks, and Madden proposed to Rice, Slade's
managing man, that the fight be declared off
Rice refused to do so, and accused Mitchell of
being afraid to meet the Maori. Mitchell then
proposed to have the fight come off within twenty-
four hours, In the presence of only the parties
immediately interested. This Rice would not ac-
cede to, as Slade had so overworked himself in his
effort to reduce his flesh, that he had been confined
to his bed for the past day or two. Finally, Rice
agreed to Madden’s proposition, and the fight was
declared off. Harry Hill, the stakeholder and
referee, stated he would not part with the dollars
if the fight could possibly come off in some other
region, and at latest it is stated that Mitchell had
agreed to fight on 25th September, at El Paso, be-
yond the Mexican line.
In England Nottinghamshire is credited
with being the champion cricketing county for
1883, on the ground of only having lost one match
during the season. Seeing, however, that out of
twelve matches played, seven have been left
drawn, the position seems hardly a tenable one.
In fact, the figures of Yorkshire read better with
only two defeats out of sixteen matches, nine
victories, and five unfinished games. Lancashire,
facile Tprinceps in 1881 and champion county in
1882, has fallen from its high estate and has lost no
fewer than five of its twelve matches. Gloucester-
shire is very low down In the list, and so is Kent,
Surrey has secured a very high position, and, in
one respect, at least—namely, the number of vic-
tories gained—it stands at the very top of the tree.
Out of twenty matches, ten have been won, live
have been lost, and the remaining five, from one
cause or another, have been unfinished. Hall has
proved the most successful professional bat. with
an average of 40 for 36 innings; while Lord Harris’
43 for 18, though not the highest, is perhaps the
best average among the amateurs. The Hon.
Alfred Lyttelton has a splendid average of 68 for
seven matches, Mr. A. W. Ridley 53 for six, and
Mr. C. T. Studd ol for 13.
Apropos of Lee’s (the Sheffield bicyclist)
alleged late ride of miles 35 yards within an
hour, and the consequent lowering of all previous
records, Bell’s Life remarks that a doubt has long
existed as to the measurement of the track; and it
would seem that the distrust is not ill-founded, as
on the following Saturday, the race for the 30 miles
championship, on the same ground, was won by
Wood in 59 min. 413-6th sec.; Howell, 15 yards away,
second; Lee, 3 yards away, third—the trio thus all
finishing under the hour; a most unlikely per-
formance, considering both second and third men
were beaten in all their recent engagements. In
the race for the 50 miles championship of the
Surrey Bicycle Club, at the Surbiton ground, Mr.
H. F. Wilson did some record breaking, of the
bondfldes of which there could be no doubt, as two
official timekeepers were engaged, and the course
is known to be correct in measurement. Mr.
Wilson did the best on record from 36 to 38 miles,
and did the whole distance in 3 hours 53 min. 55 sec.
The following were the records reduced ;—36 miles
1 hour 33 min. 6 sec.; 37 miles, 1 hour 35 min. 48 sec •
38 miles, 1 hour 39 min. 18 sec.; 30 miles, 1 hour 35
min. 55>6 sec.; 31 miles, 1 hour 39 min. 8 sec.; 33 miles
1 hour 44 min. 53 sec.; 33 miles, 1 hour 46 min. 3 sec. •
34 miles, 1 hour 49 min. 31 sec.; 35 miles, 1 hour 53
min. 38 sec.; 36 miles, 1 hour 56 min. 37sec.; 37 miles,
3 hours; 38 miles, 3 hours 3 min. sec.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Messrs. Fittes and Sharland are likely com-
petitors for the double sculling race, and Robert
Edwards will probably be a starter for the all-
comers’race at the Balmain Regatta The race-
horses, Sir Joseph and Hippy, were recently raffled
at Herberton, and two lucky miners were the
winners.... The colt, Milparinka, broke his shoulder
and had to be destroyed....Rumoured that the
proprietor of the Goulburn Penny Post will be
served with a writ for £1000 damages for an alleged
libel on Mr. D. J. M'Leod, treasurer of the Goul-
burn Turf Club....Miss Phillips, the “champion
walker,” has joined the Salvation Army, and now
harangues from the platform of the Protestant
Hall. Miss Phillips will, if necessary, walk in six
days all the way to Paradise... A race took place
at St. Arnaud (Vic.), recently, between C. H.
Deans, a New South Wales ped., and J. Crowle’s
pony. The distance was 50 yards back and forth—
that is, 50 yards and then around a post and back
again; £5 a side. After each bad been placed on
the scratch and the pistol fired, it was seen that
Deans had the start by six or seven yards.
Crowle, who rode the pony himself, allowed
Deans to lead till the turn home, when he
spurted the pony, and won by ten yards.. ..
The Melbourne Herald has now exposed eleven
bogus and suspicious sweeps—Orient, Australasia,
Bonanza, Melbourne Turf Club, Achilles, Victory,
Albion, Maraquita, Diamond, Melbourne Sweep
Co.’s Limited, and the Victorian Consultation
Company Trump Yoss injured one of his legs
during the trip from Adelaide Sir William
Clarke’s Angler-Petrea colt recently met with a
fatal accident—It is said Mr. Mondy would have
netted £15,000 had he pulled off the Metrop. with
First Demon— A. M‘Leod and H. Jobson matched
to run at Taree on 37th October, for £40 a side
i Michael Darmody, of Victoria, has offered to
throw the heavy stone or hammer, 30® and 56®,
for £10 upwards, with any man in Australia R.
Phelan and J. Paterson swam half a mile at
Kopanui, N.Z., on 36th September. Phelan won by
55 yards, in 14 min. 5 sec A fish, stated to be
an English salmon, has been caught off Salt-
house Point, Tasmania Zulu will stand the
season in the Manning River district
With regard to Trickett’s denial that he received
any pecuniary assistance from LaycocK in Eng-
land, the latter states he can prove he gave
Trickett £335—half his winnings In the Blackman,
Hosmer, and Riley matches, and a forfeit from
Hawden—Artful Joe, who fell over the last
hurdle but one in the Hurdle Race at Caulfield
died later in the day — De Little, formerly of Gee-
long, playing with the second eleven of Melbourne
against the second eleven of Kew, secured five
wickets for no runs, while Sutherland, his vis-d-
vis, netted the other quartette for five runs only,
the whole eleven being dismissed for seven runs...
A three-mile skating race took place at the Sir
Joseph Banks, Botany, last Saturday. Mr. Frank
Smith gave as prize a handsome gold medal made
on purpose, a Maltese cross with the llgure of a
skater in it. Six entries: four started. Hackett
went off with the lead at a hot pace, and soon led
by fifty yards. Rolfe fell twice in the early part,
and Setright was outpaced, but kept on. Fry drew
on to Hackett at about a mile, when the latter
came to grief, and lost nearly half a lap which he
never regained, and A. Fry won in about 16 m. 38 s.
— Mr. A. Gregory has offered a cup for competi-
tion amongst the cricketers of the Tumut, Adelong,
and Gundagai districts, to be called the Adelong
Challenge Cup Wild geese are plentiful at Pal-
merston, N.T. Bags of 15 and 30 are of frequent
occurrence...The billiard match, in Melbourne, be-
tween J. Byrne, of Victoria, and F. Weiss, of New
South Wales, on Thursday evening last, 1000 up, for
£400, resulted in rather an unexpected win for
Weiss, by398 points. Weiss made the highest break
of the evening, 88, which included 15 spot strokes.
♦ ♦ ♦
A camp of Kaffirs go to England io “up-
hold the honour” of cricket!... It is said that Lord
Aylesford—well known in sporting circles—and
his brother have bought a cattle ranch in Texas,
and mean to permanently settle there The 500
yards swimming championship, held annually
under the auspices of the North London Club,
was won by B. C. Darrels in 7min. 48J4sec. W. R.
Itter, the recent winner of the long distance
championship, was second, 15 yards away
Mr. G. White, of the Portsmouth Swimming
Club, recently swam the Solent (which was
essayed unsuccessfully by Capt. Webb). The
distance was done in 3 hours 53 minutes
Mr. A. Denison, during a match at Yeadon, Eng-
land, was hit on the temple with a full-pitched
ball, and falling into the arms of the wicket-
keeper, he expired immediately.. ..W. Jackson
and J. Dingley, two Birmingham men, fought in
the old style, for £30, at Aston, near Birmingham.
Jackson succeeded in defeating his antagonist,
after half-a-dozen rounds, in 30min. OOsec The
Grand Prix at the Boulogne-sur-Mer Pigeon Shoot-
ing was carried off by a well-known English shot,
Mr. H. Roberts E. C. Holske, American walker,
has issued a challenge to the world, offering to walk
any man, bar J. Meagher, square heel and toe, for
£300 a side Notwithstanding the threatened
abolition of pigeon shooting in England, and the
frowns of Royalty, the sport has procetded vigor-
ously at the leading metropolitan clubs this season.
Not reckoning cups and private stakes, Mr. Turner-
Turner has won £640 in handicaps, Mr. H. J.
Roberts £590, Lord de Clifford £445, Mr. Leslie £451
Mr. F. Leighton £435, Sir G. H. Leith-Buchanan
£414, and Mr. Aitken and Mr. Archer £386 each
A. Watson, the Lancashire professional, achieved
a wonderful bowling feat whilst playing for Man-
chester against Liverpool. He got all ten wickets
in the first innings of Liverpool at a cost of 34 runs
only J. W. Shorter, a well-known English
amateur sprint-runner, recently walked six miles
on a turnpike road in 55 min. 15 sec....English
winning mounts to end of SeptemberP. Archer-
won, 146; lost, 355; total, 401. C. Wood: won 140-
lost, 388; total, 438. ’ ’
Coming Events.
[BY PEGASUS.]
Having in the hist two issues taken a look at
what at present appear to bo the most likely two
and threo-year-oJds to carry their colours to tbe
front for the Maribyrnong Plate and V.R.C. Derby,
I. come ls , week to consider some of the proba-
bilities ot the Melbourne Cup: of which task I
snail most likely not make much, the race being* a
fortnight ahead, at this time of writing, ami no
fewer than 88 animals still left in. Space will u*>t
allow me to go at length into many Individual
qualifications, with such a plethoric crowd to
wade through; but I must coniine ray attention to
a few names which seem particularly worth re-
membering. The three original top weights still
remain in the list—Commotion, Navigator, and
Sir Modred; but despite the acknowledged excel-
lence of all three, I think the present task beyond
them, in view of the good material more advan-
tageously placed below ; and the first of the
heavies” with a dangerous look I take to be
Stock well, who had a narrow escape of being
number one last year. Since then he ijas done
nothing to put him out of the racehorse dategory;
and, supposing him to go fit to the post, he
'“ust Dot be considered out of it, mature his 8st.
181b. The Gem is always a good one when fit,
wherefore his 8st. 111b. might not have stopped
him; but now he gives away such a lot elsowncre.
Calma has seven pounds more up, as well as half a
mile further to carry it, than on Saturday; and I
hardly expect him to be better served by the
longer distance. On paper it looks as if
nothing short of a miracle could pull Archie
through, when called upon to give away the weight
he does to such real good ones as Le G rand and
First Demon, not to speak of the Adelaide colt,
Dirk Hatteraick; but 1 am a firm believer in the
capabilities of a clipping three-year-old, and the
-Derby winner shall always have my “most profound
respect ” for the Cup, a feeling which will make
me expect at least a place from whatever three-
\ ear-old obtains the ‘'Blue Bibbon.” It doesn’t
by any means follow that no horse can win the
Cup after failing to score, through mud, round
Caulfield; and, therefore, I am not “full” about
Nicholas, though he was beaten on Saturday, for,
besides all other considerations, there’s a large
" something ” in the peculiar way of running the
Melbourne Cup, with a racing half-mile to com-
mence with, which I have always seen get rid of a
large majority of competitors before the stand
was passed, I.think Nicholas is a pretty good one,
and from him I skip down to Dirk Hatteraick and
Anglesey, the former of whom, I’ve no doubt, is a
right good one; but then comes in the difficulty of
trudging along with 7.10 on his back. De Grand
and first Demon are so good that I can’t believe
in any of their own age giving them much weight
in this two mile race, when they must “ go all the
way” with no time for taking a puli, in transitu.
However, passing from the 7st. 101b. division, the
next I puli up at is Santa Claus, alongside of whom,
at ist. 51b., I find Aide-de-Camp, who is probably
the best in Mr.de Mestre’s stable; and this pair
look to me as though they had a great say. After
these there come a lot about which 1 know little
and believe in not much, though if there hadn’t
been so many mistakes made at one time or
another, I should have some liking for Despot
after ms Hawkesbury performance when only half
nt; and it isn’t easy to go among the light weights
for any likely one, bar De Grand and First Demon,
unless the ancient Bordeaux can manage a coup,
which 1 never put out of reach of a son of Panic.
True, it is long since a light-weight old one has
come home in front; but what was accomplished
by Toryboy and Nimbiefoot may fall to the lot of Sir
William Clarke a horse, and uo win could be more
popular. At any rate, for the present, I shall take
him for one of my.crowd. It seems strange not to
have some say about the St. Albans’ stable; but I
don t fancy Off Colour for this trip, and the rest are
dark to me: and I’m sorry I’m not better posted
up in the Adelaide division, for which I have a
great respect. Thus it comes that I’ve left till the
end mentioning Sardius, on whom I look as the
dangerous outsider for the Derby; and I shall not
be a bit surprised to see him beat all but the winner
in that Journey, even though Archie may prove
too much for him. Believing the three-year-olds
to be a good stand-by on this occasion, I have
picked five besides the Derby winner, whoever
that may be; and, for the present, I take the fol-
lowing baker’s dozen as worth looking after;—Sir
Modred, Stockwell, Nicholas, Dirk Hatteraick.
Santa Claus, Aide-de-Camp, Martini-Henry, Despot,
Sardius, Bordeaux, Le Grand, First Demon, and
the Derby winner, if he’s not among this lot. Next
week, when on the spot, I will shorten down this
list, and endeavour to indicate a trio that mav be
worth standing.
Taking the experience gained from the Spring
running, it may be permitted to point to a few
nags that seem worth following through their
Melbourne engagements, as I have always found
there was more money to be won by picking likely
wmners of small races than trying to “spot” the
real “Simon,” for the Cup. And I shall be not a
little surprised if Honeydew, King’s Own, and
Brown and Hose don’t score for the New South
Wales two-year-olds, with The Broker to do his
part for South Australia, though bred here. Mv
fancy, now, is, first and foremost, for Mr. Bales's
colt. The three-year-olds that should hold their
own at weights for age I take to be Archie, Le
Grand, Dirk Hatteraick, First Demon, Kingsdale,
Sardius, and two or three of Mr. de Mestre’s, not for-
getting Bristol, if he’s the Bristol of two months
ago. It s not easy to tell which of our very seleet
few older racehorses will be able to put their best
leg’s foremost; but, sticking to mv invariable
principle of going for “ performers,” I expect to
see Commotion, Sir Modred, and the game little
Sardonyx give a good account of themselves when
the question is put to them. We have no two or
three that can be touched to sweep the board; but,
all this notwithstanding, there are marvellously
lew ‘racehorses,” par excellence, in the four, five,
and six-year-old ranks.
A burglar, chased by an Ohio man, jumped
into a river and was drowned. The pursuer stands
indicted for murder in the first degree for not
saving him. This is exactly how any N.S.W. paper,
which pillories a scoundrel, is served.
“The loss of a subscriber does not vex us,
. . . but we have no language to express our
contempt tor this touting*, sidewind, corkscrew
newspaper policy.” This is how the Bega Gazette
gets at the Standard for taking away one of its
subscribers.
At Goulburn, a kangaroo bit a youth of
16 on the temple. N <w the youth fancies he is a
kangaroo, eats grass, and tries to drown his sisters,
ala marsupials, in the waterholos. A clear case
of kaugaroophobia.
Mr. DeCouroy Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining 1 Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 126 Pitt-street, Sydnev
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Department undertaken. Titles a
speciality.—A ovt.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUNO
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Wh. oping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as’ this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief;
a small bottle otten cures. Ask for ‘"Arnold's’*
and get it; spurious Imitations are sometimes
WAITING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Waiting-, waiting, always waiting-,
ior a turn of tide,
Wasting time in idle dreaming
While the moments glide.
We are walt.ng while our childhood
Quickly slips away;
Thinking of a glorious manhood,
While we only play.
Manhood comes—yet still we're waiting.
Life is not as fair
As we thought when children playing,
Free from toil and care.
Still keep waiting—heedless, waiting,
Manhood quickly goes,
And old age must reap the harvest
That the idler sows.
Old age comes with weary paces,
And we're waiting still,
Till, too late, a sudden turning
Takes us down the hill.
Thus in life we all are waiting
For some turn of tide;
Lazy heart I get up and “ do it,"
Ere the moments glide.
“ The win for the Caulfield Cup was a very popular one.” —Sporting Telegram.


F
URNITUKE SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
H
and
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
IBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAiRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
FURNITURE.-THE LARGEST STOCK IN
THE COLONY. BRADLEY. NEWTON, and
LAMB. O’Connell-street.
Marble-top t.a bles, on strong hand-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
IGHT-POU •!!) BED ROOM SUITES—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest draw ers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY,
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
HEAP FURNITURK-
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, fram 85s; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from 10sfid: Tables, froralsOd: Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 30s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 25s; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s Od, BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs In Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.,
CHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O ’ Co nnel 1-street.
85s.
BRADLEY
NEWTON,
and LAMB,
SYDNEY.
Easy occasional chairs, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OPART. Inspection Invited.
-|\RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
JLF A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 13s 6d.
CHAIR BED STEADS, forming CHAIR.
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, complete, 40 Guineas.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, comprising 5-FEBT
EARLY ENGLISH SIDEBOARD, MAHOGANY
EXTENDING DINING TABLE, with patent
screw and two 1 aves; LARGE PIER GLASS,
COUCH, GENT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAIRS, covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 30 feet.
D
JARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Ormolu.
VERY ELEGANT items for Drawing-room.
Framework for drawing-room s cites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
F~ EAMEWORK tor DINING-ROOM FURNI-
TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
8BDSTB ADS, nickel-plated and black and brass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
ell-street.
rMTASHSTANDS, with marble, 35s each. BRAD-
VV LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
A A R D E N SBATST 20s; Verandah Chairs.
JT INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
EY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
ENT WOOD FURNITURE. —A very complete
Assortment: best make, km est prices.
3 OFFICE F URN IT I! RbTw KITING TABLES,
1 Chairs, Stools, Desks, Iron Safes (ail sizes),
radley. Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
CCB CHESTS, all sizes, v°ry superior make. Ex-
amine beforepurchati ig. BRADLEY, NLvv-
ON, and LAM B, Spring and O’Connell streets.
NOMMODE CHAIRS BIDE IS with pan;
J SHAVING STANDS. Bradley, Newton, and
amb.
rAPANESE BLINDS, for Verandahs, 8 x S I Is:
• 9 x 8, 13s; 10 x 8, 14s. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
ad LAMB.
NEW YORK PIANOS, the FINEST
5 in the world. A SHIPMENT just landed.
r IPP’S CELEBRATED PIANOS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB
have received
another LARGE SHIPMENT
,. LIPP and SONS’ celebrated PIANOFORTES
irect from the Makers, comprising TALL
RANDS, LITTLE UPRIGHT GRANDS, SA-
,OON GRANDS, VERY HANDSOME and of the
[1GHEST CLASS FINISH,
in
WALNUT and BLACK GOLD.
BT" WE HAVE NOW THE LARGEST STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA OF
LIPP’S PIANOS
TO SELECT FROM.
WE INVITE INSPECTION. r
FOR PRIVATE BALE AT EXTREMELY LOW
PRICES,
BRADLEY', NEWTON, and LAMB,
Pianoforte Importers,
O’Connell and Spring streets.
SOCIAL.
Sir George and Lady Allen gave a large
and fashionable “ At Home” last Thursday evening
at Toxteth Park, Glebe. About 450 guests
assembled, and a number of beautiful dresses were
to be seen among the fairer portion of the com-
pany. Some of the gentlemen present wore Sir P.
A. Jennings, Com nodore Erskine and officers of
the Nelson, Hon. G Eagar, Captain Le Patourel,
Professor Gurney, Major Alroy, and other notabi-
lities. The hostess wore black brocade. Mrs. A.
Campbell’s dress was peculiar—old gold satin an 1
black Spanish lace. Mrs. John Smith was in cream
brochc. Miss Q. Eagar in nun’s veiling of a similar
hue. Miss Booertson wore white, arid Miss Mac-
lean pale blue, being well suited as regards colours.
Miss Gore and Miss Cadcll were attired with taste;
and Miss Stephen wore pink. This shade
seems a favourite one, and always looks well
either by night or day. It would be a
Herculean task to attempt to describe all the vari-
ous toilets in detail, but a maize ottoman silk, a
blue and silver mu bossed satin, and a delicate
mauve tulle with waterfall back were conspicu-
ously elegant Some musical selections were given
during the evening by several well-known profes-
sionals, but doubtless a dance as a wind-up would
have pleased the young folks equally well, who
naturally like nothing better than a “whirl
round.”
• • •
Penrith indulged in a municipal ball last
week—not an everyday event in that township,
which is so picturesque, so somnolent, and so
small for its age. The attend mce was sufficient to
leave plenty of room for dancing in the large
Temperance Hall, which was decked with foliage
and waratahs, and besides the locals, a good sprink-
ling of visitors went down from Sydney. Imme-
diately on arrival of the mail train, which brought
some, dancing commenced on a capital floor.
There was no idling, no energies wasted bolding
the seats down, but every one danced and “ wired
in” for enjoyment. The doors were' not blocked,
as you oiten see them in Sydney, by groups of
delicate youths who have gone wrong, and. having
fallen victims to a cruel combination of clothes
and collar, find themselves unable to do more than
shed the glory of their superior presence on the
scene. There was a crowd of spectators nevertheless
—the democracy of Penrith and the yeomanry ni
Emu Plains, who inserted themselves at one end
of the hall, and gazed on in fascination. Countless
heads of small boys formed a I ringe round all the
window-frames, which boys so' mod to become
absorbingly interested in the efforts made by in-
fluential citizens to conquer the mysteries of the
mazurka, or to circle in the dubious whirlpool of
the waltz. The Mayor was present, and affable,
with Mrs. Resley. Also, the ex-Mayor, Mr. Ralph
Colless, representatives from the N.8.W. and Com-
mercial Ranks, Alderman Paskin, Cross (the cele-
brated chairman of the Works Committee), and C.
Evans (who was M.C., and seemed almost surprised
at his own success in that responsible position).
Mr. T. K. Smith, the member tor the district, per-
formed an amount of dancing that ought, when
female suffrage is introduced, to gain him the vote
of every girl m Penrith. Mrs, Smith wore a tine
cardinal and ecru satin, elaborately trimmed with
lace and flowers; and Mrs. Evans, a handsome
black velvet, contrasted with white lace. MissBes-
ley wore a pretty satin bodice of black, and cream
silk skirt; and her sister, Miss Elizabeth, was quite
a little blue blossom, 't wo Paddington pinks were
Miss Dent and Miss Cooper; and Miss Lovatt, who
came In from Mulgoa to give people a treat, wore
a charming white, decked with blue ribbons, and
looked rather shy and pretty. One Miss King wore
a rich ruby and pink, another taking a Parlour-
maid’s character, and both as lively as we like
good girls to be. Miss Evans, of Newtown, in
pink, was delicious, and Miss Robbins dainty in
white; Miss Yeomans bore the neat character of a
Red Cross Nurse, and Miss Bessie O'Connor quite
bore the palm for splendid dancing. About mid-
night, the company tiled in to a sit-down supper,
well served by Mr. Elam Squires in another room.
No one said grace; but when wo looked around
on the Penrith girls at table, we felt the room was
full of it. Supper was very merry, the jovial
member and a young solicitor with a stock of
lustrous jokes, being the life of it. Then dancing
was resumed to the music of the local band, who
really played very well and steadily, right on till
day dawned i,i the sky ; and, as the grey light
peeped in at the open windows, and watches
showed live o'clock, ulsters and clouds were
donned, and the jolly company went out into the
quiet street and scattered away to their homes.
• •
Ivanhoe Assembly fourth annual ball took
place at the city hall vestibule on the 19th, when
twenty-four dances were done, including Prince
Imperials and Cotillons. Fifty couples, all good
dancers, allowed fair room lor each, and Messrs. R.
Thame (secretary) and H. Chadwick (treasurer)
look care that everything went smoothly. Cater-
ing by Callaghan was A1 in quantity and quality,
and De Green's music was good. Miss Fletcher
wore, perhaps, the most beautiful dress—bodice of
rosepink plush, a shirred skirt of pale green
satin, with pearls and flowers; Miss Baldock was
a flue Grace Darling; and her sister, Miss Bertha,
Avas deemed the belle in a lovely pile green satin
enlivened Avlth golden fern leaves, and a golden
wreath on her dark hair. A giddy young gentle-
man Avore a light and airy costume, and no doubt
enjoyed himself in consequence of being very lltt e
hampered in movement. Two typical Irishmen
Avere Messrs. James, excellently made up. A fancy
Harlequin was a beautiful dancer, and a cardinal
Folly, Esmeralda, Gipsy. Sailoresses. were the
other chief characters; the most novel being Miss
Lang as Grasshopper.
♦ * *
Mr. Bland Holt was entertained by the
company of the Theatre Royal at n complimentary
picnic oil the 17th instant. The Cruiser took a party
of ladies and gentlemen down to Tennyson, Avhero,
despite the heat, dancing and diversion Avere ven-
tured on. Tie City Catering Company spread a
banquet, after which Mr. Dampier presented the
favourite actor with au illuminated addr< ss
Photos were taken, and a return made about sun-
doAvn.
• • •
Paddinct n Literary Society sent out in-
vRations for a concert on the Kith, programmes
being attached—a good plan. St. Matthias' Hall
crammed, local interest barring been well rvorked
up. and lots of new dresses made by the sirens of
the Eastern Suburbs. Miss Lockyor's “Regret”
Avas beautiful; the “ Parson and Clerk,” by Messrs.
Reynolds and Watt, comical; the “Caprice Hon-
groise ” of Miss Compton, and “ Variated Polka”
by little Mackenzie, good. Recitations not loud
enough. A duet, " What are the wild rvaves say-
ing,” was injudiciously arranged, as the gentle-
man’s stentorian voice represented the rvaves in
such a frightful storm that the lady’s srveet soprano
Avasllkc a dead calm, in comparison. "The three
musical fellahs,” rvitn localisms, rvas quite a
“take;" but why, oh why, rvrill young gentlemen
of average ability build a programme 29 items
Jong! An Honorable's daughter from Darling
Point looked lovely in creamy satin picked out
with greenish trimming; a minister's daughter
nice in blue and rvhite; and a lady from Surry
Hills attracted notice by her splendid pearls. A
couple of ladies from Potts' Point were enchant-
ing in delicate pink satin and lace; and the wife of
a Minister of the Crown charmingly displayed a
cardinal dress of richest fashionable construction.
• • «
The final Floral Assembly took place at
Pomona on 17th, and, despite the weather, 50 were
present. Hostess in trained robe of heliotrope and
mauve, trimmed Avith cream lace and ttoAvcrs. The
“Rose” Avore pink, and white lace; “Joy,” Avhite
cashmere and ruby satin, so trimmed; “Honey-
suckle,” black velvet and white cashmere. Queen-
street visitor Avore a very rich robe, black velvet
petticoat covered with a gold network, and gold
stars between each square. Seventeen dances,
capable partners, and dispersion at 3 a.m. Health
of host and hostess proposed; also the ladies, by
Mr. Weiss, funnily.
On Thursday and Friday, Parramatta was
proud in its fine Horticultural Show. The new
Town Hall Avas perfectly convenient; and the fresh
appearance of every thing—the bright flowers and
lighting, and gay dresses—made it a most attractive
lounge. Besides, there Avere concerts under Mr.
A. H. Gee, Avhich pleased the sense of hearing, and
gave local amateurs a chance. A small dot sang
“ Won’t you buy my pretty flowers” with SAveet-
nesS. Mr. D. Hunt took 14 first prizes, and the
shoAv Avas the best yet.
• • •
Builders’ and Contractors’ annual picnic
last week drew several hundred people down to the
Sir Joseph Banks. As Aveather Avas doubtful,
ladies mostly dressed quietly, but danced none the
loss eagerly to the capital band led by the talented
Sweetman. There were special trams both Avays,
and a good dinner, at Avhich Mr. Thomas Birks,
president of the Association, took the chair.
Several M's.P, surrounded him, but speeches Avere
short, and then tun was resumed. The builders
all looked happy, and thought of no bricks but
each other, no boards but those to dance on, and
the only “ sashes ” that troubled teem for the day
were worn by young ladies. Some young builders
looked as if sandpapered and polished for the
occasion, and danced in a plane Avay. Of tjie
pretty costumes, Miss Cummings wore a neat
black satin and ruby velvet hat, an elegant toilet.
Miss Locke (soon to be merged in Aved-lock), a
charming pompadour, avith a fascinating chapeau;
Miss Salmon, a crushed straAvberry dress, and
danced nicely; Miss Bennis, yelloAv pompadour
and lace; Miss L. Sutton graced slate satin and
cashmere; and Miss Meiklejohn, a pretty brunette,
black velvet and cream, livened with a little blue.
A Consul's Avife wore a tine brown check toilet
and hat to match, Black Avas a frequent colour,
and one lady felt that the importance of the occa-
sion warranted her in wearing a real “ masher's ”
hat. Mr. H. Giltinan Avas M.C., and two little girls
(pupils of Miss White) danced a delicate hornpipe,
and two (pupils of Mrs. Warskitt) a graceful stage
waltz. Trains came home in the gloaming.
v * v
Grafton Rowing Club held a pleasant sub-
scription ball, in the School of Arts, last Avcek.
Fun Avas shared by 50 couples nearly, and the M.C.
business conducted by asubstantial bank manager.
The club captain avus happy, and the secretary
absent. Of the prottv dresses aired, the light blue
of a South Grafton young lady; the white and pink
of a storekeeper’s daughter; a peacock blue, from
Rocky Mouth; and two light blues, from Fitzroy-
street, were observed. A sub-inspector's daughter
was charming. And as others Avere pretty, some
of the club members will probably soon take to
pulling in a pair- oar boat.
v * *
Liverpool was gay with a ball on the 17th,
in aid of the R.C. school, which benefited a good
deal, as many patronised the affair. To the strains
of the Parramatta string band, dancing continued
till 6 a.m., Messrs. M’Dermot and Learoyd caring
for the floor. Miss Pierce in cream, and Miss
Hughes in cream and pink, looked nice. A
Sydney dame, in black veWet with a train, and
a niece in pink, looked well indeed. Miss
Morris was a pretty girl in cream and cardinal
spangled. Mrs. O'Connor, of Sydney, wore a
handsome dress of black satin and broche; and a
Sydney fiancee was charming in Avhite, Avith pearls
and pink flowers ; Miss M’Mahon, also, in black
velvet and pale b'ue silk. Mis. Ashcroft (wife of
the Mayor) wore a handsome black satin and white
lace. Sydney sent tne belle from Church Hill, a
beautiful dancer, in cream. The committee
Avorked well to make the ball a success, which it
Avas.
♦ * •
At Burgeville, Goulburn, Mr. and Mrs,
S. B. Burge gave a ball on the 17th, and did every-
thing to make their guests comfortable. A large
marquee, 130 x 40 feet, was attached to the north-
ern verandah enclosing the strawberry beds,
around Avhich Avere placed sofas, couches, arm-
chairs, &c., and the gas Avas specially laid on
throughout, and decorations put up, thus making
a delightful lounge for smokers and card players.
Professor Langdon supplied music, and dancing
Avas kept up till 4 o’clock. The palm for stylisn
costume was borne, probably, by a Sydney lady, in
pale pink satin. Two fair sisters in nink cashmere
were considerably pretty; and pale pink and cream
made a Glebe maiden winsome, Mrs. S. B. Burge
Avore a tine pale blue figured satin and cream;
Mrg. W. Burge, a cream and ruby; Mdrnes. Gas-
kell, Gillespie, Riley, and Kerr, and Misses French,
Maloney, Thompson, Blackshaw, Sand, Fenton,
Ball, Riley, and Kerr all wore handsome dresses,
which are beyond particularisation. Miss Wilkie
wore a noticeable crushed strawberry, and her
dancing was admirable. All the guests left highly
pleased.
♦ ♦ ♦
Rand wick residents closed their season’s
fortnightly dances with a social last Thursday.
Flowers Avere lent by Mr. C. Pearce for ornamen-
tation, special P'-ograram >s printed with a score of
dances, catering was splendid by the City Com-
pany, and all concurred that the social Avas without
a flaw in its management. About 75 couples at-
tended; many tried in vain to secure tickets of
invitation, Avhich were, very sensibly, limited. It
is better to have a fair numoer comfortable, than
a throng crowded. The dance is thought to have
afforded one of the most brilliant assemblages yet
seen iri the Randwlck ToAvn Hall, and it is difficult
to reduce a notice of the pretty toilets within
limits White and cream ruled. Two visitors,
Misses Walton, looked their very best in white silk
and broche, and one of them divided the honour of
belle with Miss Florrie Palmer (Bathurst) in pink
satin and Avhite tulle. Yet, about the pre ff iest
girl Avas from Albert-street, Woollahra, in w rite
satin and pansies; and the best dancer of Rand-
Avick was one of i he three sisters in cream lace and
pink roses. From Marmion, WaA r erley, came a
favourite in a charming white costume with
waterfall; from an Oxford-street bank, a lady in
an embroid°red Avhite muslin, chic and airy; and a
woolbrokisr's Avife Avas very attractive in a Avhite
satin and tulle. The Avife of a King street solicitor
Avore a cream broche Avith nice effect; and the
daughter of an M.D. from Eliz ibetn-street
Avas a 1111'"*- (esthetic voung lady in black grenadine
decked Avith huge arum lilies. An embroidered,
cream satin, aided by scarlet poppies, adorned a
beautiful dancer; and a piquant brunette from
Glenmore Road Avas pretty almost to the point of
danger in cream and tartan. A local lady graceful
in white trailing silk, and an Orange girl in black
silk, Avith a lovely complexion, Avith the fair Avife
of an insurance manager in Avhite, close the list of
most noticeable ladies among the many. Consider-
ing the pleasant eA r enlngs given all through the
season, of which visitors have taken a full and
cheap advantage, it Avould have been not amiss
at the supper table for someone to have spoken
a few graceful words in recognition of the com-
mittee. It is a pity the chance Avas allowed to
pass—perhaps through Avant of thought. Saurbier
at the piano had one assistant, who, however
cleverly manipulated tour Instruments; and at
tAvo o’clock a tramload of Aery vociferous jokers
started gaily home.
• •
The history of some articles sold at bazaars
Avould be interesting. It must not be rashly con-
cluded, because a tine picture bears the name of
the well-known Miss Fitzmasher in the corner,
that, therefore, it Avas painted by that artless young
lady; nor, because a lovely bit of lace is labelled,
“By the Hun. Mrs. Teacaddy,” that, therefore, it
was not done by the deft fingers of a sempstress in
some unpretentious home ot the people. But that
the highest genius can sometimes unbend we are
convinced, ft is an undoubted fact that, at Go-
vernment House bazaar—where avc paid half-a-
crown to be exclusive, and to benefit the souls of
the heathen in a distant land—a consignment of
tiny av heel barrows, made Avith bits ot deal wood
and brads, price 3s. (id., were constructed
by one of the colony’s richest men, a resident of
Darling Point, and a member of the Union Club.
And it is certain that, among the cosies and
cushions, and the babies’ boots—tor which there is
still a steady demand—Avas a four-post bedstead,
admirably adapted for dolls Avho contemplate
matrimony, Avhich Avas wholly, solely, entirely, and
altogether the handiwork of our biggest Minister
of the CroAvn. But a really beautiful work was
the painting, on terra cotta, of a cherub’s head, by
that gentleman’s very young daughter, Avhich did
her the highest credit, and was sold immediately
to a kinght’s daughter for five guineas. Altogether,
though several very prettv stall-holders assured
us they hadn’t the faintest idea Avhat or where the
Melanesian Mission is, or what it wants to do, avc
believe the bazaar Avas so successful that the souls
of the Melanesian persons Avill be much benefited;
and perhaps there may even be a surplus for the
reclamation of Ultimo and Woolloomooloo.
* • •
Exceedingly pleasant was the annual ball
given by the Catholic Bachelors of this city at
Nithsdale Rooms, on Friday last. Just the right
number of a select company had been invited, who
were duly announced at the door as they passed in,
and duly received by Messrs. M’Carthy and
Ramsden. The arrangement of the programme
Avas judicious, and the supper delicious; the cloak
and cloud business avos efficiently managed, and
Mr. E. Needs led a small band ot good musicians.
The Catholic Bachelors’ ball has ahvays been a
popular one, tor which invitations been
eagerly sought, and the ball being smaller this
year than last Avas entirely oAving to circumstances
over which the bachelors had no control. The
position of this particular class ot human beings is
one surrounded by danger. Even their very guests
take advantage of them. In all the good faith of
artless innocence they inArite their lady acquaint-
ances to a friendly ball, and these fair ones come
armed with charms that are too, too fatal, and the
confiding hosts go down “like sheaves in autumn.”
A seraph in shimmering satin smiles once, and the
ranks lose a good man; a brunette droops an eye-
lash, and bang! goes a bachelor. Tavo or three
line young men were there on Friday who have
already been lass-oed; while there were sure indi-
cations that others cannot long escape the noose.
Thus lb's ranks are decimated, and that’s Avhy the
ball Avas small; and unless circumstances tend to
produce more bachelors, it is hard to see Avhat the
ladies will do next year, unless—and this is a choice
Idea offered free—they celebrate their many vic-
tories by giving a ball themselves. The opening
quadrille was led off by >-ir Patrick Jennings and
Mrs. J. H. Burn Aris-a-vis to Mr. R. Ramsden and
Lady Jennings, Avhile Mr. F. J. M’Carthy and Miss
Harris (sister of the Mayor) danced opposite Mr.
and Mrs. John Hughes. His Worship the Mayor
and Mrs. Harris were prevented from attending,
and sent an apology. Among the gentlemen pre-
sent were observed Messrs. D. O’Connor, A. J.
Brady, T. Slattery, J. B. Olliffe, O’Mara, Garbett,
Freehlll, Edmunds, C. J. Roberts, &c., and Messrs.
G. Curtis, Caraher, M'Carthy, and Ramsden proved
most attentive and courteous stewards of the bail.
Lady Jennings Avore a beaded black silk with
medium train ; Mrs. Roberts, a handsome black;
Mrs. Gannon, black with splendid hand-pamted
front. Mrs. Bozen, Mrs. Frank M’Donald, and
Mrs. Plunkett all favoured black robes; as did also
Miss Gilhooley, who wore, on her black silk,
bunches of flowers and grass tufts ; and Miss
Btheredge, whose dress was very elegant and set
off with large yellow roses. A pretty petite Avas
Miss Redman, in white satin and crimson sash; and
another, Miss B. Jones, in Avhite satin. The dress
of Mrs. Richardson was a pleasing combination of
ruby velvet top, finishing in long tabs held at the
point with brooches down on a pink satin skirt.
Mrs. W. H. M'Carthy indulged in large bunches of
plums and other fruit on shoulder and Avaist; Mrs.
Owen Carroll wore a pretty blue satin and white
lace; Miss Olliffe, blue broche and ditto; Miss
Harris, white broche and flowers; Miss Hynes, a
pretty blend of fraise and cream nun’s
veiling skix-t, and Mrs. John Williamson a splendid
burgundy velvet robe Avith train, and diamonds.
The gleaming white satin of Miss Hollingdale Avas
in clever contrast to her jetty hair; Miss Mark Wil-
liamson’s cream broche and floAvers, rich ; Mrs.
M’Donaid’s, handsome, and loaded Avith bright
flowers; Mrs. Burn’s, a beautiful creation where
the tints of the apricot merged with lavender and
blush pink in broche and lace, trimmed with
Roman pearls. Very conspicuous was the hand-
some figure of Miss Robertson (a relative of a
Masonic divine), who Avore a sleeveless ruby velvet
top cut square and embroidered with narroAv gold
lace, coat ends, over a very light silken skirt of
canary colour, bearing at the side one gigantic
purple pansy. The sumptuous dresses worn by
two sisters from Church Hill were too rich to be
described by any other than a gold pen, and were
universally admired. At the close of the ball, the
ladies annexed the silver “true lovers’ knots *
Avhich the gentlemen Avore on their coats, and bore
them off in triumph. 11 was no use relating; and
some of the bachelors themselves had a narrow
escape.
• * * *
On the 1st Nov., a Balmain medico and
the daughter of a wealthy alderman—Heir of
half one of the greatest papers south ot the line,
to the daughter of a rich merchant, and an honor-
able Baron Hubner, an Au strain diplomatist,
at Melbourne, is travelling round the colonies
Lord W. B. Neville, 23, son ot Marquis ot Aber-
gavenny, has just gone on to Sir Salmon's Ercildoun
Station Reform Club gave Sir John a dinner on
his seven hundred and fust birthday— Melbourne
Owl Club give a grand masquerade ball during
Cup week... On the 17th, Miss Lizzie Allen, or
Tamworth, took a walk from her ma’s house to
St. Nicholas’s Church. She came back Mrs. Charles
Bissaker, and had breakfast with about forty well-
dressed friends, when the Mayor proposed her
health. Then Mr. and Mrs. Bissaker trained to
Sydney Mr. W. Kellett, Mudgee, obit, 87—
Sydney Amateur Comedy Company performed
Bumand’s “ Deal Boatman,” and the farce “ A
Quiet Family,” at the Parramatta Hospital for the
Insane, on Thursday, before some 300 guests and
patients, at the Invitation of Dr. Godson — Bazaar
at Goulburn, PloAver Show at Wallsend, Early-
closing Ball at Wagga. Also, there, Misses Grundy
closed the season’s dancing class by a fancy ball in
the Town Hall... Mr. G. A. Single, of Werns Creek,
dashed against a tree by horse. His family at Red-
rayre... .Soon, the manly and popular eldest son of
a stock salesman Avods a handsome Redfern lady...
About 50 guest s assembled at Mr. and Mrs. Maude’s
residence, Forest Lodge, recently, to celebrate the
birthday of Miss Blanche Maude. There Avas
dancing, singing, and instrumental music—at the
latter, Misses Healy excelling. After supper,
toasts Avere given, and it Avas nearly daybreak
before festivities ended . ..Operative Bakers had
their annual picnic at Cloutarf on Saturday
Cinderella party in Oddfellow*’ Hall, Goulburn
on Thursday, with capital music . Cumberland
Fruitgrowers had their annual excursion last week
from Parramatta to Clontarf. Steamer nearly
knocked doAvn the Ryde bridge on the Avay, and at
Clontarf people Avho had thought provisions
would be obtainable Avere disappointed, and had
to go hungry, Avhich possibly accounted for some
young gentlemen lighting on the Avay home
Next Wednesday, one of Max Adeler’s most funny
farces will be performed in the Sydney Gymnasium
by lady and gentlemen amateurs, in aid ot the
Young Australian Club, for tne reclaiming ot
street Arabs At a Cootamundra concert, Mr.
W. L. Murdoch, the batsman, oroved a good corner
minstrel, and “ took Avell.” There was a ball there
last Aveek, av hen 30 couples occupied the floor till
four o’clock, and other townships were repre-
sented. Tavo sisters in maize and cardinal, rela-
tives of a P.M., were admired, as also tAvo ladies in
black and in Avhite, the latter the finest dancer
present. And a medico’s wife in cream shone at-
tractively Affidavits filed in support of a neAv
trial in the Horwitz case are of a startling nature —
Old Mr. Lewis, of Sandhurst, has passed into his
second century. His Avife is 83. Sixty-two years
they have been tied, and 9 children, 41 grandchil-
dren, and 13 great-grandchildren are the result—
The bachelors of Levuka gave a grand ball the
other day. And, by the Avay, there is an eminent
Fijian in Sydney Avho is hoav no longer a bachelor.
Mr. John Chisholm, the Auditor-General of Fiji,
slipped into the matrimonial noose the other day.
He is a grandson of Caroline Chisholm, the “ Emi-
grants’friend.” ...A soiree and dance took place
in aid of the R.C. school at Swan Bay, in the local
School of Arts. A hundred persons sat to a good
tea, after Avhich dancing commenced to the music
of Messrs. Taylor and O’Neill, with a careful M.C.
At 1 o’clock there Avas an interval for refreshments,
and at 5 the thirty-one dances were completed, and
Social continued on next page.


-A- Ch^-^ILTID
THE PEOPLE’S CLOTHIER,
OPENING up, every day, a Large Stock of Choice and .’Fashionable MEN’S, BOYS’, and YOUTHS’
SUITS, TROUSERS and VES’lS, SAC, FROCK, and PAGET COATS Hi 1 (,r> •’" r1 ' r, ' T ' p®"" ttjTSq
WHITE and REGATTA SHIRTS, COLLARS, TIES? and HOSIERY.
HARD and SOFT FELT HATS
Every article is marked in
SUITS, TROUSERS and
WHITE and REGATTA W-UJLU
plain figures, and at VERY LOW PRICES.
Both shops are thorougly chock full. Come early and inspect the Stock in both shops.
I keep the LARGEST STOCK of WORKING MEN’S CLOTHING in SYDNEY to choose from.
Be sure you find the right shops, when requiring CLOTHING OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
J. J. Ryan, 760 George Street, Haymarket;
And 466 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Markets, near Market Street.
ON THE
Briclrtield. Hill.
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS in LA6E CURTAINS.
These Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers
Ladies residing
Curtains. If
LACE CERTAINS, lOO PRICES.
* h ®. 1 ? eare st Railway Station, Free of Charge, a Set of Lace
1 the same nafforn th >?. en >fraving, cut it out, and we will forward exactly
tne same pattern. See future advertisements for other patterns. y
LACE CURTAINS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Irish Linen TMe Damasks, to match the Curtains. Table Napkins. Linen Diapers. Embroidered Table Covers
Jaosqmto Nets. Striped and Plain Window Union. Examine carefully the of our
“LACE CURTAINS.” * B or our
r
■ <
m
i
• <
►:
► :■
ssss
m*
P
Price: 12s. 6d., 15s., 17s. 6d. the pair.
ONE ONLY ADDRESS:—
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS,
I LACE CURTAINS) 668 BRICKFIELD HILL, [lace curtains]
Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
tho party broke up. A pretty young widow and
her younger sister halved the honours, and a fair-
baired lady, from a local plantation, was much
admired .. On the 31st inst., a tall resident of Ash-
field, who is in the Survey, will accompany the
daughter of a late Maitland divine, to St. Paul’s
church, Burwood,... At the same edifice, on the
1st Nov., a member of a big triple firm will whisper
his willingness (for the second time in life) into a
lady s oar*
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Bazaar at Town Hall Now open
Bachelors’ Assembly Picnic (Tennyson) Oct 27
Return Ball to Mr. Sturt (Homebush) . .Nov 1
Mr. A. Read’s Annual Ball (Newtown) Nov. 5
TW. D T * Sydney 23rd October.
Dear Belle,—J ust now we are undergoing’ an
attack of bazaar fever. The North Shore people
deserved success with their horticultural fete and
bazaar, for their enterprise in introducing several
attractive novelties, such as the chess tournament,
the fish-pond, &c. Nothing but the provokingly
wet weather of last week could have prevented
the proceeds being considerable. The show was
for the benefit of St. Thomas’ Church, North
Shore, and was held in the Exhibition Building.
Some of the specimens of fancy needlework on
sale were marvels of artistic design and execution
There is no waste of time in doing such beautiful
and the workers may be very proud of their
skill. The chess tournament was postponed from
last week, and is to take place this and to-morrow
afternoons. All the stalls were beautifully deco-
rated with flowers and foliage, and each had a
pretty fanciful name. Overhead, among branches,
hung cages of canaries, whose twittering was
very pleasant, lacing you on entering the build-
ing. Mrs. Parker and Mrs. Donkin showed some
choice pelargoniums and other flowers, also knick-
knacks of various kinds, photograph albums,
work boxes, &c. At the right, Mr. Ferguson, of
Double Bay nursery, had for sale a collection of
plants and shrubs, some splendid tree ferns among
them. Here I saw the tiny Australian pitcher
plant, with curious little pitchers down among the
leaves, also the wild musk, which grows on the
Illawarra Mountains, and a lovely orchid from
Mamla, with pale yellow waxen-looking blossoms.
A lily of the valley was in bloom there, too. Many
people have never seen the plant growing. Mrs.
Adam s stall, W aratah, showed a very handsome
cushion, a group of crimson tiger lilies painted on
white velvet, among other pretty things. At
Kosedale, Mrs. Manus’, the exhibits were chiefly
Bowers, baskets of lilacs, and button-hole bouquets,
.This stall was decorated with festoons
Nile lilies and green leaves. Mrs. Kyngdon, “ Fern-
side,” had a show of porcelain and terra cotta orna-
ments, mirrors bordered with wreaths of porcelain
flowers, so natural-looking that I had to feel them
to try if they were real. There were some lovely
hand-painted plaques here, and all sorts of flower-
holders, all moderate in price. At Mrs. Tulloh’s
‘ Mossbank,” the art needlework might make an
exhibition by itself. There was a low chair covered
with applique work on cretonne, which was a won-
der of patience and skill. Then a banner-screen,
worked in crewel with embroidery, is a work of art,
and deserves a full and particular description. The
material of the screen is white satin with a border
of crimson plush: it is divided into four panels,
and the design is the four seasons. To represent
Spring are apple blossoms; roses and other flowers
for Summer; Autumn is the mountain ash with
berries, and an owl sitting on a bough; Winter is
holly with its berries, and a robin, of course
There are a fender stool and pair of footstools of
needlework, a perfectly lovely mantelpiece drape,
and gipsy table with satin cover embroidered with
flowers. Mrs. Heron, “ Pansy,” had Japanese hand
screens, umbrellas, &c. At “ Craigelia,” was a beau-
tiful mantel drape, black satin embroidered with
sunflowers, and some delicate point lace. There
were rods at the fish pond labelled “for hire,” but
I saw only one small boy of adventurous turn
attempt any angling. I don’t knew what he
caught. Quong Tart had refreshments. On the
day I went, there were very few visitors owing to
the wet, and I was really sorry for the stall-holders,
who had evidently taken immense trouble. No
doubt the chess tournament would attract a crowd.
A party of English ladies newly arrived were the
most noticeable of the visitors. I admired, not
without a pang of envy, their lily and rose com-
plexions, and wondered how, wearing hats like
men (one a small tweed hat, such as gentlemen
wear to the opera; another a Derby) and double
breasted ulster coats and stand-up collars,
they contrived to escape looking masculine. You
may ask how I knew they were English and new
arrivals, and I’ll tell you. There was no mistaking
the trim, neat, well set-up look about them. They
might have been models for Du Maurler’s pretty
English girls in London Punch; and besides they
were our fellow-travellers in the tramcar, and I
heard them commenting, new arrival fashion, on
our institutions, and grumbling, English fashion,
on the slowness of our trains, trams, and other
public conveyances. You would not require to
ask their country if you saw them. English was
written on them from top to toe, and I shall not
wonder any more at men admiring English girls.
The only remarkable costume on the block on
Saturday morning was a long black redlngote over
a skirt of crimson and yellow satin, with little
bunches of red an i yellow ribbons all over it; high
crowned hat, with bands of velvet. The weather
seems to be particularly spiteful towards Satur-
days. As there was nothing to see on the block,
we went to Mr. Sands’ gallery, where there was a
great deal well worth seeing-engravings, coloured
photographs, etchings, photogravures, and art
objects of rare beauty. There are landscapes by
Hoyte and Piguenit, coloured photos of Alma
Tadoma’s pictures, photogravure of Sir F. Leigh-
ton’s “ Wedded,” and, shortly to arrive, an
engraving of “ The Widower—Fildes’ picture
bought for our Art Gallery. Altogether, anybody
with a taste for art or love for the beautiful
might pass an hour or two very delightfully in
looking at Mr. Sands’ pictures, only one wants to
spend money as well as time there.
There were “ melting moments ” at’the Theatre
Royal on Saturday evening, among the immense
number of people who went to see “Tambour-
Major” again. Every part of the house was
crammed, and in the dress circle the heat was
stifling, and the darkness almost Egyptian. Con-
sidering that we felt as though we were under-
going a Turkish bath, I don’t know how the che-
rubim in the upper circle must have Celt. Their
voices were not at all languid in demanding the
appearance of their favourites, whatever their
feelings might have been. The stage dresses are
splendid. In the minuet two of the court ladies
wear magnificent trains of ruby sitin over pale
pink petticoats, and the other two pink sal in trains
over crimsonlpetticoats. Then Miss Maggie Stew-
art, as the Duchess, wears lovely costumes ; one
white satin with cardinal drape, and little touches
Of red here and there on skirt, and a walking dress
of ruby plush and satin with a chatelaine satchel
hanging from the waist. Miss Nellie Stewart, as
Stella, wears a beautiful white satin dress when at
the palace. I can’t think why every band plays
“ The Death of Nelson.” It certainly had a comical
effect when the orchestra struck up the well-known
“ ’Twas in Trafalgar Bay” for the march of the
French army into Milan- so appropriate, you know.
There were many handsome dresses in the charmed
circle, though we lost most of their beauty, the
light was so very defective. A black velvet, with
long train and square-cut bodice, suited a tall
young lady, with a beautiful figure, to perfection,
though it must have felt intolerably warm. A
great many of the dresses were black. I saw a very
pretty black satin, beautifully made. Several
dresses had no sleeves, only straps. I think it is a
mistake for owners of the loveliest arms to wear
only straps, tor the upper part of the arm is cer-
tainly not the most beautiful. Elbow sleeves are
far prettier, and show off a pretty arm far more
effectively; though the long gloves don’t allow
much show in this respect just now. A young
lady in white brochd, without sleeves, looked nice
and cool. A curious-looking dress was a pale grey,
barred with black velvet bands. There were bro-
cades in multitude—pink, blue, and white, and
several of nun’s veiling. Some fans were immense;
and they had need to be, considering the atmos-
phere. 1 saw one near ly as large aa a cart-wheel,
and envied its possessor. A beautiful white glitter-
oii8' i OI i9 a PP eare< i In one of the stage boxes. Nearly
iadies wore their hair high. Most girls are
ivi 1 ? an „ u ?ly little knob, like an onion,
yv'hl ou top of the head. I think the coils, or
plaits, idled round, as high as you like, and looking
hah 1 a C10W11 ’ mucl1 Prettier, especially with fair
x?* the hot weather is coming on us, I may
tell you the very best thing I know of for taking
the neat out of the skin, and removing sunburn.
Bathe your face with hot water directly after you
*ke sun. All the bush girls do this
„ r i ey l* ave been riding or driving on hot days;
and I know that it is effectual, though I don’t think
it is by any means new.
Good-bye.
Yours,
MAB.
LATEST SPORTING.
As the great races of Melbourne approach nearer
we become continually more aware of a seeming
anxiety on the part of horse owners and trainers
u c TTi*' 0 . 0 muc h.” or, in other words, to find
out what their nags can’t do, rather than be satis-
fled with the knowledge of a “ good thing;” and
then comes a panic in the ranks of stable followers
and partisans, with a frequent collapse of their
favourite, On Monday, Archie’s Sydney backers
were frightened out of their propriety by rumours
that the colt had “ gone terribly off,” and that
Martini-Henry had consequently risen in the
JDerby betting to 5 to 3. From the senior morning
DauycfTuestoy we received the explanation that
the Derby favourite had been asked to carry nine
stone a mile and a quarter, conceding a lot of
weight to the old Drummer, and we were not sur-
prised to find that the crack three-year-old didn’t
succeed. Youngsters shouldn’t be asked to do the
same thing over and over again, when they have
once done it.
The same authority tells that Albury must be
eased in his work, grimly adding, ‘‘the same as
Zulu was last year;” which is rather rough on the
stable, in view of the collapse of Spinningdale that
same meeting, and the first-class performances of
the supposed “dead lions,” Wheatear and Zulu.
These things, however, happened, not last year,
but the year before; and it is rather too great a
tax on our fatalistic proclivities to make us con-
fldent that the “easing” of Albury in his work
will ensure a repetition of the Zulu coup.
The real racehorses of the day are beginning to
st }°w their quality again, just at the right distance
of time before the meeting, and I think more of
them on that account than if they had been paraded
in the papers for weeks and weeks, as performing
much ‘sound” or “useful” work, or catching
dozens of swallows by “Blanket’s” watch. So it
is good tolhear well of Commotion, who needs no
regularly published reports to establish his right
to consideration. We may be quite sure that First
Demon and Bristol will not be required to “ break
anybody’s ticker,” for their fola don’t believe in
such tactics.
It would have been a great pity if the accident
to Honeydew had been serious enough to interfere
prejudicially with his chance for the Plate, which
I hope is not the case; and up to the time of writ-
jGgfhis, on Tuesday, the intelligence received from
Melbourne, about prominent candidates—such as
Buckingham, Helene, King’s Own, and others—
may be said, in scientific parlance, to be deficient
ot “specific gravity.”
Sydney sporting “special” wires his house
that two race consultationists, rejoicing in the
ao . l A brlquets . of “ Spero” and “ Loco,” have levanted
with some thousands of pounds entrusted to them
oy a gullible public. The latter long-suffering
contingent deserve no pity, when there are means
galore of losing their spare savings without having
such hoards “ openly sailed away with.” The true
refinement of victimising is as yet but partially
understood by the many-headed; and the most
pretentious names must fail in the establishment
or totalisator or consultation clubs, so long as
there are continually cropping up such sans cere-
monte departures as that alleged of Messrs. S.
and L.
The many friends of Mr. Edward Lee, for years
respected as a prominent member
of the A.J,C. Committee, will be grlad to welcome
him back after his late visit to England in search
of health; and it will look like old times to find
him once again at Melbourne during the great race
carnival. Mr. Lee arrived by the Chimborazo, at
Adelaide, on Monday; and sportsmen will all re-
joice to find that his trip has produced the desired
results.
The steady-going party connected with First
Demon and Bristol will probably, before long, give
us another surprise, like that of the Hawkesbury;
as they have most likely got a really good nag, by
the purchase of Emancipator, a three or four year
old son of Imported Wilberforce, who ran a great
race last season, at Glen Innes, with First Demon. '
The note of preparation is sounding among the
principal racing clubs, whose secretaries are all
life and bustle preparing for the Summer and
Autumn campaign. Bega and Adelong are making
their respective signs; and we shall be glad to re-
port more fully on the goods they have for dis-
posal, when we receive from the secretaries the
usual official authority, without which, of course,
any notice on our part might be looked on as im-
pertinent. The Camden and Campbelltown pro-
gramme having been received late, will be at-
tended to next week.
THE BETTING MARKET.
Now that there is nothing- but the good things of
the V.R.C. to attract the attention of backers and
layers, business in the betting world is assuming a
marked contrast to what has been told of during
the last few weeks, and operations on forthcoming
events are largely on the increase.
Thu Maribyrnong Plate,
Although absorbing a deal of attention, has not
caused much alteration in the prices ottered, and
the following quotations are obtainable:—5 to 1 v.
Garfield, 7 to 1 v. Second King, 9 to I v. Helene, 10
to 1 each v. Honeydew and King’s Own, 100 to 9 v.
Bohemian.
The Derry.
Archie, notwithstanding that several of his
opponents are constantly backed for various
amounts, still retains the position of first favourite,
and any advance on 5 to 4 against him leads to
business. Four to one is easily obtainable about
either Off Colour or Martini-Henrv. and Sardius
has been well backed up to 100’s to 13, 10 to 1 being
offered bar tour.
For the Melbourne Cup
First Demon still retains his position at the head of
affairs at 10 to 1, taken and offered, while at a point
longer Calma, after his win at Caulfield, was well
supported, and now there is very little to choose
between them in the matter of favouritism. 100's
to 8 are taken and still on offer about Le Grand and
Aide-de-Camp. and a good lot of money being
forthcoming for Nicholas on Monday night he
quickly rose to 100’s to 7, at which price he is still
very firm. Santa Claus is at 100’s to 6. while from
100’s to 5 to 3 may be obtained about others.
Recovery has receded to 30 to 1.
LATEST MELBOURNE SPORTING.
Bassanio, Baron von Mueller, and King of the
Gipsies have arrived from Adelaide, in charge of
Rawlings. Recovery has disappeared from Flem-
ington, and some mystery surrounds his move-
ments; but the general idea is that he has gone to
Harry Haines’ place, at Sandridge Bend. He has
receded to 100 to 5, freely offered, for the Melbourne
Cup. Santa Claus has, for some inexplicable
reason, been knocked out at 100 to 3; and Nicholas
retired to 100 to 4, consequent on his having-
run fourth in the Caultleld Cup. His stable com-
panion, Aide-de-Camp, has advanced to 100 to 8.
The latest betting is as follows: Maribyrnong
Plate-100 to 15 Garfield, 100 to 13 Second King,
100 to 11 Honeydew, 100 to 10 King’s Own,
100 to 10 Helene, 100 to 6 Buckingham and Bohe-
mian. The Derby: 5 to 4 Archie, 5 to 1 Martini-
Henry, 5 to 1 Off Colour, 7 to 1 Sardius. Melbourne
Cup: 100 to 10 First Demon, 100 to 10 Calma, 100 to 8
Aide-de-Camp, 1U0 to 7 Le Grand, 100 to 7 Despot,
100 to 6 Recovery. Despot did a big gallop this
morning. Bordeaux broke a blood-vessel while
going well with Yernct. The latest seratchings
are;—For the Cup: Pilbro’, Welcome Jack. Derby:
Lord Mandeville. Steeplechase : Forest King,
Blackthorn, Revolver, and Fickle. All engage-
ments: Nepean, Lady Cole.
Needles’ Patent Gas Apparatus.
Inquiries are every day being made by pro-
vincial Municipal authorities, squatters, hotel-
keepers, &c., as to the best, cheapest, and safest
means of lighting by gas—where the ordinary coal
gas is not procurable. Costly mistakes are made
in this direction, and too late it is often found the
best system has been overlooked. Now, the
Needles’ gas patent has won the universal approval
of England and America, as being at once simple,
safe, and economical—and since its introduction
here, at our great International, it has proved
itself of great practical value. Messrs. H. T.
Smith and Co., who have extensive branches in
Canada, New York, London and Melbourne, intro-
duced the patent here, and, having combined the
business of gas engineers, they manufacture
all the essentials themselves. The Needles’
patent gas gives the purest and best light,
at the lowest possible amount of cost ; hotels,
houses, or towns can be lighted by its aid;
in ten minutes sufficient can be made by hand
to supply an ordinary house with gas for the
evening; a gas-engine in operation makes all the
gas necessary for its own power, and at the same
time generates sufficient to light a house or a town.
The gasoline used in the generator is clean and
safe. Over 3000 private houses and hotels in Vic-
toria have been supplied with the Needles’ Patent
by Messrs. Smith and Co., and in this colony and
Queensland to nearly trier same number. The
patent can be found in operation at Bathurst,
Newcastle, Hay, Goulburn, Mudgee, Wagga, and
Maitland districts. The Mount Victoria Hotel is
now successfully lighted by its aid. Mr. Smith is
contracting for lighting the Parramatta Industrial
Show, so that metropolitan people can see it in
full operation. All information can be obtained
from Messrs. H. T. Smith and Co., Globe Buildings,
Sussex-street.


THE NEWSLETTER.
Two men died at their camp iu Victoria
after eating a great cut from a bullock they had
found dead—probably of Cumberland disease.
That steak was a mistake.
London teems with murders just now. One
Wm. Gouldstone recently murdered his five child-
ren while his wife was lying on the bed, sick. He
drowne i three of them—ages years, years,
and 16 months (!) respectively—in the tank, and
knocked his twin infants of 7 days old on the head
with a hammer. A person named Cole, the same
week, on going home and finding a ily in the
butter, or something, took up his son, aged 3
years, by the ankles, and dashed his head against
the floor until he killed him. Both these men are
adjudged sane, so it is to bo hoped they will, to
use the words of Lizzie Orr, “cop it.” without
delay. The people tried to lynch Gouldstone, but
the anti-hanging Society are interesting them-
selves in Cole; so it is probable that worthy will
appear at his trial in a black coat and a flower in
his button-hole.
Here’s a solemn fact. With ape has come
modesty to the St. Kilda (Melb.) Borough Council.
Those fond of a dip in the salt sea have been in the
habit of finding their way to Hegarty’s baths, and
in the seclusion that, the saplings grant they have
been wont to caper like dolphins, unconscious that
the eyes of the Borough Council were on them.
But thev were. And the Council has preferred a
request to the Government that an order be issued
that in future all bathers wear trousers. The
housemaids in the hotels on the Esplanade, and
every description of visitor, have lately gone in
for carrying about field-glasses, and that seems to
have made the Council mad. A bailiff was sent to
watch the other day, and the item ot intelligence
which he carried into the deliberations set the
Council swearing. He had found an old lady sit-
ting on the sand outside the saplings, and he avers
that when he asked her what she was doing, she
replied, “ Looking at the ships, honey 1” Trousers,
trousers I
Zeal for the welfare of the working classes,
a consuming desire to make their homes cheerful
and their doorsteps clean, an active mustering ot
committees to give effect to the zeal and thedesiie,
and an abundance of mutual admiration and glori-
fication when the first trowel-full of mortar is
patted on a stone, are things of everyday manifes-
tation. The truth has reached most quarters that
sanctity depends very much on architecture, and
health and happiness are traceable to chimneys.
Nobility of sentiment on the edge of an unrmsed
sewer cannot well be attained. That generally-
diffused truth'accounts for the above emotions,
and the variety and self-humbug of human nature
account for most of the rest. The other day
the f Hinda ion-stone of a model lodging-hod.se
w ,, a laid in Lonsdale-street, Melbourne, to he
lifcing and drumming of the usual tunes that pr •
fcssioual philanthropy is fond of. Mayor Ooog-
shun laid the stone, and our old friend Ge >rge
Copoin and the Rev. Charles Strong, and several
others, got round the stone, and “Gods poor
were duly inoculated with the belief that now
thev were about to be lifted fr m the dr. ariness
and darkness oi their dirty hovels. It is Mr
Cnnpin who is to be thanked for this work of
genuine philanthropy,” said the Rev. Charles. And
« God’s poor” hurrahed lor George Coppm. It
was the Rev. Charles that first suggested it to
me,” said George. And “ uiod’s poor hur-
rahed for the Rev. Charles. And they
went round the ring, every man putting
a piece of the mantle of glory on every other man s
shoulder; and “ God’s poor ” hurrahed all the time.
And th«n the Mayor said that he was positively
certain that such a building in such a part ot the
town would pay splendidly in a pecuniary sense,
and then the Rev. Charles Strong said he knew
that from the time the idea was first started, and
then George Coppin winked and said he calculated
all that before he took up the ground. And then
the philanthropists retired for refreshments. And
then “ God’s poor ” departed, hurrahing for the
noble-souled saviours of the poverty-stricken
denizens of the slums of Melbourne.
Cilv Councillor Britten, of Fitzroy, Mel-
bourne. is a patriot. He has been a patriot now
for a good many years. It doesnt seem to have
made him any thinner. Although the complaint
has kept continually dogging him, he is still able
to go about, and can smile as broadly as ever. It
is only bv his speech you could tell how much
ho has suffered. The one word “Doin' which
falls over his under lip at the Council table at
times of intense emotion reveals a system that has
been cruelly harried by anxieties and cares. ,His
condition was unusually critical, the other day.
High-souled patriotism had flapped its wings in
the aisles of his being, and, after singing to him
the lays of ancient Rome, it crowed sweetly and
tenderly over the memories of the men who
sacrificed themselves for that early community.
Bretten understood the bird. If 9ther men
leaped into chasms, if other men let their souls out
witii their own red right hands, was not he, Britten,
also exhorted to be a hero tor the inhabitants of
Fitzroy? Consequently, Britten determined to do
an immortal work. He would plant seven trees.
He talked to seven councillors, and the response
was “ lo, Britten!” He brought them down from
Ballarat; he dug up the soil; he stuck them in; he
fenced them round. “Now,” mused he, in the
after-time the birds will sing on these branches;
and what will they sing? Will it not be ‘ In ten,
noble Britteni Britten ol the early days did this,
and earned the blessings of the after-time I” But
at the next meeting of the council, the mayor said,
“ What put them things there? Them things is in
the road. Dig them up, and throw them away.”
And the question was put under debate, and though
Britten narrated all his intercourse with the musi-
cal rooster, a sentence was carried that no birds
would sing of Britten in the after-time, and that
he would just have to look down on posterity
through the same trap-door in the floor of eternity
as the rest of his fellows. Then Britten’s lower
lio fell, and “Dom” tumbled over on the table.
I'hev sympathised with Britten after a while, but
on conditions that stripped his heroism of that
character of pristine abandon which had trickled
to him from the lays of ancient Rome, and the
possession of which had made him plunge into the
con urnmation of an immortal work.
The Irish are a sentimental people; they
have devised a touching memorial to two mur-
dered Englishmen, in the form of “Burke and
Cavendish drops,” a sweetmeat which you are ex-
pected to suck, and shed tears over. Here is dis-
played a fanciful idea, simple in its pathos, and un-
surpassable in its refinement.
The Sun that burst through the murfcy
literary atmosphere of Melbourne two Saturdays
ago, had, as is proverbially proper for suns, spots
in it. You did not need to look at them through a
piece of smoked glass, as the surrounding surface
was by no means dazzlingly luminous It was a
home-made spotted sun. and those who hung it in
space, hoped the good people of Melbourne would
be able to see by its light, how straight crooked
things are, and how crooked is all that is straight.
The spots fitted in well in the revelation of such
an<.vangel. But the Herald has climbed up tor
it, and netted it round with the web of the libel
law. Poor Sun! And as if to make the indignity
still more steep, the process is to be, not a civil,
but a criminal one!
Sporting Item —The Archbishop of Can-
terbury has undergone an operation for fistula.
There were instructive incidents at the
Launceston “ scrimtnidge.” While hundreds of
sturdy, able-bodied men were on the railway
platform singing, gesticulating, shouting with
passion, the station-master stepped nonchalantly
on, and ordered the police to “ clear the station.
This reminds us that many years ago, at a benefit
given by Heller, the conjuror and musician, in the
Melbourne Toeatre Royal, not only was the house
packed like passengers in a Waverloy tram, but
the whole of the large vestibule was a mass ot
swaying heads and bodies, all making notices ot
motion, which none could carry out. I hen a
dapper little fellow, in evening dress, came 1 torn
above, looked superciliously over the struggling
crowd, and, shouting to the one policeman—whose
face, from perspiration, resembled the delta ot the
Ganges in miniature—said haughtily, Put these
people out.” Oh! the scream to get at that chap
that went up from about a thousand of us in the
front sections is still ringing in our ears. He would
have disappeared as mysteriously as the pigeon
that the person—known to Mr. Weller, jumpr
“blowed” away, leaving not a wrack behind.
Honest Mick Hoolahan, the bobby—to his honour
be it said—merely turned on his heel, with the
mordant remark u Put phwat out? ”
Twice a year, at Trinity and Advent, the
Church Society iuvite contributions for the
furtherance of God’s work. At their house in
Phillip-street, (free admission) there is a collection
of battered silver and copper coins, which tell a
mute but eloquent story of man s depravity and
the hardness of the times. They are all bad; have
been refused over and over again by the banks,
and as a last resource, have found their way into
the contribution-box, as if to see whether, having
failed to push their way in this world, they would
be of any service in forwarding their owners in-
terests in the next. The religious papers are j ustly
severe on this practice. Besides its blasphemy, it
appears to us singularly shortsighted. Granting
that the knowledge we at present possess ot
“ celestials ” is slender, still it should be enough to
teach us that they are not to be taken in with bad
money. To us it seems that in this matter the
Society have as legitimate grounds for complaints
as the Rev. Mr. Jones of Melbourne had, when,
Sunday after Sunday, he found on the plate pieces
of neatly folded paper, purporting to be negotiable
financial tenders, but disclosing on being opened,
the somewhat irrelevant question, Jones, old
cock, how are you ?”
Inaction of the Kidneys Urinary organs
causes the worst diseases which Hop Bitters cures.
Read.
At the open-air Hospital Sunday collection
in Sandhurst, the Rev. J. Swindells officiated.
Various hymns, including “ God save the poor,”
were negotiated There are two classes of people
who can always be depended on to do justice to
this hymn—the very poor and the v«ry rich.
Those who have not had, for months, a good look
at a square meal, except through a shop-window,
sing it pour power le temp*, while their wealthy
fellow-citizens, being too much occupied in look-
ing after themselves, sing it for the purpose of
interesting Heaven in a contract they themselves
are unwiHi"g to carry out. In Sandhurst there
was one sight we never lost—one performance we
attended with the regularity of the law of gravi-
tation. From the Arctic Circle to Queenscliff
there is probably no town of its size in which
so many men have become “leading citizens”
through retailing damaged coffee, doubtful alco-
hol, “ light ” candles, and raining shares with pro-
spects second to none for water and sandstone.
The sight we never lost was to attend church
when, according to Mr. nwindells, “the tinkling
bell of one of our Benevolent Asylums invites to
tbe hour of prayer.” It set us up for the re-
mainder of the week, and we found onrs<Tves on
Monday morning far enough advanced in Chris-
tianity to be able to howi and pray, lie and cheat,
with the best of them. But in one particular those
“leading citizens” could give us a castle, a rook,
and all the pawns. They never smiled during ser-
vice. They carried the plate and responded, got
their “ amens ” always home in time, and had their
“God save the poors” and “Jerusalem the gol-
dens” stripped and at the starting-post before we
were half through the litany, but—no twinkle in
their dull eyes showed consciousness of the absurd
part they were playing ; no passing wave of
humour corrugated tlm corners of their hard
mouths. Observe them next day on the Bench, at
the counter, under the verandah, presiding (no
temple is too sacred for them) at literary and
scientific societies! Then talk to them about the
“poor” or “The waters of Babylon;” write out
the result and send it to us.
A local genius writes in a Tam worth paper
what he calls “ Straggling thoughts in a straggling
cemetery.” The thoughts are certainly straggling.
There are about two in the whole article—and they
are about six thousand years old. Still, we have
no doubt the article will have much interest for
those whom it concerns—the dead. The writer
objects to one epitaph which he discovered on a
Tamworth tombstone. Here it is : —
“ Life Is but a winter’s day—
Some stop to breakfast, then away.”
He considers this sentiment does not accord with
the solemnity of the subject. We differ from him.
We think it is highly expressive, and even epigram-
matic, not to say boldly metaphorical. It com-
bines a certain homely realism with an ideal tone
which Is very touching. Here are a few modelled
from it, which we respectfully dedicate to the
Sydney obituary editors
Life is short to saint or sinner,
Bobby never stayedjfor dinner.
0l Death of life’s bloom is a plucker;
Tommy’s dead: we save his tucker.
And —
What’s the use of beastly greed ?
Father now is off his feed.
Again—
Carelessly through life we jog,
Uncle now tor worms is prog.
More—[Hardly!—Ed. B.]
So the Hon. Thomas Bent is to have a tes-
timonial. On the 25th, all things going well, the
funnel will smoke, the sails will spread, and
Thomas will take to the briny. He will show the
Indians what manner ot man Australian politics
can produce. When they hear him, they will hear
Freedom ; when they see him—well, the Indians
will say, “ Keep your freedom, keep it I ” Oyer
£100 was subscribed in the Brighton Cohrt
House when the Mayor talked of the testimonial.
As we write, no one knows, even in the circle of
his worshippers, into what compact form the
guineas will be melted. One suggested a piece of
plate, another suggested a shining shield, another
suggested a bookcase of dictionaries, and another
suggested twenty-six eulogistic articles in a
radical paper. But we were there, and having
once met Thomas at a restaurant, we suggested a
trophy of hash. Yes, hash. For we know the
Indians, and wc know Thomas, and we shall grieve
if he comes baek empty.
Charles Du Can rubbed the hair off the
crown of his head, and otherwise disfigured him-
self, trying to make out to what extent he was
indebted to his solicitor for his brilliant defence in
the Emerald Hill court, the other day. Charles
had been charged with playing the “advertising
dodge.” whereby he induced foots to deposit
money with him; and he thought that if he only
paid Mr. A. J. Daley to plead tor him, he would be
able to walk forth smiling and do the block once
more. But Inspector Toohey asked for a week’s
remand. Now was the time for the advocate to
work out his fee. He rose to it in style, and elo-
quently urged that his client should be let out on
bail. Inspector Toohey demurred, on the score
that Mr. Du Can was likely to disappear from the
land. The Bench was inclining to the Inspector’s
view, when Mr. Daley let out the whole torrent of
his legal skill and, cried; “That’s just why you
should take hail It will save the country the
expense of keeping him for two years!” Charles
is still rubbing.
We are none of us superior to calamities.
Death comes to all, one after another; and if death
stays away, debt comes. It is hard to say which is
the mo r e inexorable or the more dreaded by mor-
tals. The best laid schemes melt away, and the
f ood we were about to work becomes impossible,
or the knock is at the door, and the sheriff sells
our kit. It doesn’t help us much to form a com-
panionship, for the whole companionship will move
under the same fate. So it was, at all events, at
Oakleigh. What should be freer from carking
cares than a Victorian shire council ? As the
brotherhood met in tne council chamber, what,
you would ask. had they to do but to levy rates
and grow rosy ? Death—where was its sting ?
Debt—where was its victory ? But, tace. Look
at the Oakleigh shire council last week. Its
copying-press stands outside the door of the
Mulgrave Vrms Hotel. That’s its bluestone
metal in the middle of the road. That's its wheel-
barrow with the shaft broken. That’s its coil of
rope on the footpath. There is the sheriff’s
officer. Behold the execution. A little ago, and the
Oakleigh shire council carried a proud head, and
made away with the rates with a sunny prodigality.
But Alick Wilson slipped in a drain, and a cruel
law gave him £450 in compensation, and hungry
lawyers claimed £350 for cyphering it out; and, as
all the rates were swilled, the road-metal, wheel-
barrow, and other assets of the council were
knocked down by the auctioneer. Before going
away from this scene of debt, read the last will
and testament of Oakleigh, posted there on the
sidewall; "This council is now without a ring,
and, as no ratepayer will trust us with the handling
of another penny, we’ll be in the same state in
secula seulnrum. We, therefore, notify to all
and sundry who fall down culverts in this shire,
that they need not follow us for damages.” Debt,
debt!
The Merry Masher and the Maiden.
Preparing for the Summer.
In a few weeks we will have the hot summer
months upon us, and the usual experience of im-
pure water may be looked for. It is an admitte
fact that half the complaints which afflict human
life are traceable to impurities of one kind or
another absorbed into the system, and cer-
tainly the most fell results have at all times fol-
lowed the use of impure water. Not a single
household in Sydney or its suburbs should be with-
out a proper water-filter; and that being the case,
the best description of filter should be obtained-
Cheavin’s rapid water-filter has been recommenaeu
by all the leading scientific men as about tne
most perfect yet made. Its process of purinca-
tion is the simplest and most effective ijjvent®
Lass utter, and Co., George-street, are sole ageu
for New South Wales.
Appropriate Spring Styles. For the Snake
Season.
THE RAIN.
The rain is coming down,
It, is teeming in the town,
It glitters on the leaves.
And drips from hanging eaves.
The rain is coming down,
Bringing freshness to the town,
Making pure the heavy air,
Bringing greenness everywhere.
The rain is coming down—
We don’t want to go to town;
And we could not did we choose,
For we’ve “ put up ” our shoes I
“Aha!” he cried, “behold yon
tall maiden approach. I shall
mash her. Watch me.”
BY MOONLIGHT.
The streets are quiet,
The ways ate clear;
No sound of riot,
No danger, here.
The moon is beaming
All softly bright,
And, widely streaming,
Its holy light
On noorroof glimmers,
On mansio i wall
And shines and shimmers,
And blesses all.
The streets are quiet.
The ways are clear;
No sound of riot,
No danger, here.
’Tis twelve o’clock, and—
Here is the rub —
A little knock, an 1
We're in the pub !
The tall maiden passeth on.
But beheld not his fatal beauty,
for she only had a bird s-eye
view. She escaped uaxnashed.


Abraham’s Pills
(D \NDELION),
THE QREA I’ LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favourite remedy. We all suffer more
or less from liver iom plaint, thereby hindering’
other organs from I ulfllllng their functions. Set
the liver in order by taking the above remedy, and
heart, lungs, brain, and stomach will unite in
graceful chorus.
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The true invigorate r. If your vital forces are
depressed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of coming
disaster, your liver is unequal to its work. To
obviate all these symotoms there is no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
I The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion of
the maladies and ailments attacking the human
frame are really due to a disordered liver. Set this
organ in order and health returns as if by magic.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are imitalions, ask for ABRAHAM’S
PILl.JS. See that each box, by whomsoever sold,
bears the inventor’s name and trade mark. The
Lab ihtiry,
434 George Street, Sydney.
The federal bank of Australia
(Limited)
Incorporated under Aot of Parliament.
CAPITAL, £1000,000 ; SUBSCRIBED, £666,000.
Directors *
'tr®T?P n *.A- Brodrlbb, M.L.C., Chairman.
M K nT -II m tt . ’ I n.
W. H. Eldred, „
Robert Hudson,
J.P.
F. T. Humphery, Esq.,
M.P.
,, J. Y. Mills, Esq., J.P.
Manager ; P. S. Macdermott.
Accountant: John Docker.
Solicitors : Messrs. Robertson, Fisher, and Ralfe.
Temporary Banking House. 357 Goorge-street,
North, with branch at tne Haymarket.
Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies
and in Europe.
Highest rates of interest given on Deposits, and
all usual Banking business transacted without
delay to customers.
P. S. MACDERMOTT, Manager.
'IHnil
>
R.BURCIS
TAILOR..
"uiliWIlfl
(OHiuiriun
VISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
FOB
CHEAPNESS, FIT, AND WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to anv
part of the Colony.
and
W 0 «enkLU N vo°u k owi G A A8 8 8 E a '
Apply to
D. K E E L Y AND CO.,
71 Goulhum-street, Sydney.
Deal Fkrid Gafl - Gasallers, Lamps,
krid. Comfort, Economy, and Safety?
Mr Ke0l {’ on behalf of the Patent Portable Gas
Co., had cbarFe of the lighting of the hall and
supper rooms at the Hay Demonstration, and the
lighting of Croydon Station. He undertakes to
teach his customers in three minutes the mode of
lighting.
A liberal discount will be given to storekeepers
on' remittances per orders, and goods forwarded
with quick despatch. Orders and remittances to
be sent to the above address. No orders attended
to without remittance.
LIST OP PRICES:
4 Light Gasalier £3 10
3 do. do
3 do. do
3 Light Brass Table Lamps
1 do. do. do.
Brass Bracket Lamps, burn 16
hours
Wall Bracket Lamps, do.
M lobes and Fittings
Fluid, in cafes, 8gallons....
1 gal. fluid gives a ught equal to 13s worth kero-
sene. instructions as to tl e mode of lighting sent
to clients with despatch ol goods.
Goods sent to all pai ts of the Colonies.
3 10
1 15
5 10
3 10
3 0
0 17
0 5
0 3
0
0
0 to £3 5
0
U
0
6
0 each
6 gal.
THE HARWOOD
Fibre Chair Seating,
Possessing all the qualities of a perfect seat.
Strength, Durability, Ease, Beauty, Cleanli
and Cheapness.
viz.
ness
THIS CHAIR SEAT is made from the strongest
known fibres and a perfectly waterproof
cement, and after fifteen years’ constant use, we
can speak positively as to its merits. It cannot
split or check, neither will exposure to sun or rain
affect it.
Awarded Gold Medal at the late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
For RE-SEATING It Is unrivalled. In every
house, store and office, are chairs with seats broken.
Any person can re-seat and make as good as new a
chair that is otherwise worthless, at a very trifling
expense.
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE FOR HOME USB.
Agents Wanted in Bvbry District.
Prom £3 to £5 a week can be made by any smart
man or boy In his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
83 CLARENCE STREET.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £100,000.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT,
on fixed deposits for 13 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods ; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £50 in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
Marshal
V
* .
V.
TONIC NERVINE
REGISTERED.
A | SAFE, certain, and speedy cure for Nervous
and General Debility, and all complaints that
spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Nervous Headache, and Toothache, Indigestion,
Loss of Appelito. General Prostration, &c. By its
tonic and soothing effects it at once removes all
craving for ALCOHOL. By Its richness as a Che-
mical Food, it nourishes and gives vigour to the
Agents—
Elliott Brothers, and B. Prosser & Co,
W. H. PALING,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
/•
mm
j ■
5^1
*=43
:±r~^-Zkr‘-z~-
?rWS
EASY TERMS SYSTEM IS? INSTRUMENT
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC, ETC.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON-The
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; ■will soon be the leading'
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
t XHIBM
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ys in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWA R E,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
PAPERHANGINGS!
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSERY PAPERS.
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, &0.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwtck,
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &c.
Atlas Foundry & Engineer-
ing Company,
Hr HAY STREET SYDNEY.
Engineers, Boilermakers and Shipbuilders,
Iron and Brassfounders, Coppersmiths and
Millwrights.
The above firm are prepared to undertake con-
tracts for the manufacture of Marine and Station-
ary Engines, Boilers, and Girder Work, Quartz-
crushing, Sawmill, Sheep-washing, Mining, Sugar-
mills, and all other descriptions of Machinery, with
latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for metal.
t I
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
THE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco off the Age I
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The only Tobacco combining Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Price.
|3F“ Each PLUG Is STAMPED with the word
“EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain it.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
Saywell’sToliacGg Cs., Lin.
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
And can be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse,
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as Its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO.
Registered according to Act of Parliament, to pro-
tect. the public against spurious and worthless
Imitations.
OX30--A.3iTS,
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
W. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.,
THE BEST MAKERS IN THE WORLD,
AT EXTRAORDINARY LOW PRICES.
W. H. PA.UKTG,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & CO.,
IEOH, MACHINERY, til mm HIE,
397 GEORGE STREET,
56 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND-
SOLE AGENTS FOB ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND,
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ Tools, Pounders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery, Coach
.Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricultural
Implements.
EKeiNES.
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
..
PUMPS.
Special Steam, Centrifugal, and
Force and Lift.
BOILERS.
Vertical and Horizontal.
MACHINERY.
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting and Screwing
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
W«»OU.\VORKING MACHINERY.
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret Saws. Genera
Joiners’ and Moi ticiug Machines for both band and steam-power.
English and American Agricultural Implements.
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Horse Hoes, Land Rollers, Horse
Rakes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutteis, Corn and Maize Crushers and Shelters, Threshing Machines.
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
Coach Builders’ Sundries.— Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and Furnishings, Varnishes, and
Mssury’s celebrated Coach Colours.
Large Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ; Galvanized, Corrugated,
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled I Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies.
Woolpacks, Sheep Shears, Oils. Raddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing and Dam Making
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Locks, Hinges, Nalls, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Carpenters’ Tools.
Particulars and Price Lists may bo had on application to
BRISCOE, DRY8DALE AND CO.,
397 George Street, Sydney.


VALUABLE TRUTHS.
“ If you arc suffering from poor health
‘or languishing on a bed of sickness,
take cheer, for
Hop Bitters will cure you.
“ If you are simply ailing, If you feel
weak and dispirited, without clearly
‘knowing why,
Hop Bitters will Revive you.
“ If you "are a Minister, and have over-
‘taxed yourself with your pastoral
duties, or a Mother worn out with care
and work,
Hop Bitters will Restore you.
If you are a man of business or
labourer weakened by the strain of
‘ your every-day duties, or a man of let-
ters, tolling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strenghten you.
“ If you are suffering from over eating
or drinking, any indiscretion or dissi-
nation, or are young and growing too
fast, as Is often the case,
Hop Bitters will relieve you.
“ If you are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
that your system needs cleansing, ton-
ing, or stimulating, without inttoxlcat-
Hop Bitters is what you need.
“ If you are old, and your blood thin
and impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
unsteady, and your faculties waning.
Hop Bitters will give you new Life
and Vigour.
“HOP BITTERS is an elegant, heal-
thy, and refreshing flavouring for sick-
room drinks ; impure water, etc., ren-
dering them harmless, and sweetening
the mouth, and cleansing the stomach.”
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
HOP BITTERS
is an Elegant, Pleasant, and Ref reshlng Flavouring
for sick-room drinks and Impure Water, rendering
the mouth, and cleans
GRAHA
TAILOE,
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment,
543, late 531, George-street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,— I respectfully beg leave to bring
under your notice the superior style and fit of our
Trousers, which are cut on the same unerring
principles as those which have made the name of
Hill, Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion in the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either In sitting, riding
or walking; require neither foototraps nor braces
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain their
position in every attitude of the body.
They are designed to fit the corpulent as well
the slight figure, and are engaged to give to all the
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial will suffice to establish their claim
on your patronage.
I am, Sir,
Your obedient Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM.
MALT BITTERS
the GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION,
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT, WEA
NESS, &c.
PRICE.
as. 6d.
Prepared by A. G. KEBBLEWHITE, Chemist.
. „ 43 ERSKINE STREET.
Sold by W. H. SOUL, and all Chemists.
One Mario and his wife, both Italians,
were had up at the Criminal Court, Christchurch,
N.Z., lately, for arson, and, having been found
guilty, were sentenced to four years’ penal servi-
tude. Neither of the prisoners could speak Eng-
lish, and their daughter—a olever-looklng girl,
twelve years of age—acted as interpreter for them
in their dealings with the various Insurance com-
panies they were good enough to patronise. The
Marios had been Investigating a curious phase of
colonial life, which struck them as interesting and
worth following up. They had noticed that
people who had the happy fortune to have a
good fire consume their premises got rich
all of a sudden immediately afterwards, and
further enquiries on their part revealed to
them the fact that insurance companies existed
for the purpose of enriching those who knew how
to use kerosene oil, shavings, and a box of matches
with discretion and judgment. Acting on this
knowledge, Mario and his little better-half built a
shop and house, costing £300, with money borrowed
from a building society. Having insured the shop
for £300 in one office, they proceeded to another
and Insured it for £300 more, while a third office
took a further sum of £150 on the same premises.
Having spent all their money in premiums, this
ingenious couple proceeded to realise shortly
afterwards with a box of matches. The Are was a
complete success, and the old people, accompanied
by their daughter, started to collect their in-
surances. They told a harrowing tale of their
narrow escape in scanty attire, and as they had
nothing except what they stood in (which was
little enough in that climate) they asked particu-
larly for a speedy settlement—and they got it.
They were arrested, and settled with for four
years, as above.
At the Belfast (Vic.) Assize Court, held on
6th October, before Judge Williams, there were
but three cases for trial. Lucy Oakes loved neither
wisely nor well. The seducer came, and she met
him half way. In her distress, she took one of
Michael Kane’s cows, sold it, and arrived in Mel-
bourne to swell by one Hayter’s tables of vital
statistics. Then she returned to Belfast in custody.
The poor girl was as much sinned against as
sinning, and so the light sentence of two months
was passed. Brighton Franklyn Matter’s case
was a peculiar one. He is proprietor of the
Koroit paper. Mrs. Macdougall, the Koroit post-
mistress, had a daughter named Kate, who was
living from home. Kate was a good girl, and
loved her mother, so she visited the old
lady on the 1st February, partly out of
affection, and paitly, pei’haps, to be “to home”
when Valentine’s day came round. Kate wore
bangs and a watch, and one day returning from
the Colonial Bank in the thriving town of Koroit,
she found the bangs all right bub the watch all
wrong. In fact, she had lost it. James Collins,
who occupied the onerous post of messenger to
the office, was thereupon employed to fix up a
notice as big as a church door informing the citi-
zens of Koroit of the loss. The notice remained at
the office, and the watch remained at large. More
than a month afterwards, Matters, sitting at
the Council table, took the watch from his
pocket and handed it to one David Bowteli
to get it repaired. He said it was not -his,
but that “ Emily had found it in the street.”
His Honor directed the jury to find “ not guilty,”
as it was a clear case of imprudence. When
“ Emily ” sees another watch in the street, she can
be depended upon to leave it there, and let some-
body else annex the property. The third case pos-
sessed all the peculiarities and double the interest
of the preceding ones. James Newman bobbed
his head over the partition and stoutly pleaded
“notguilty” of abducting Eliza Westbury from
her mother. Eliza’s age was 15, but, through some
unaccountable delicacy, James’ years were not
given. James got off, and Eliza got two months
for prevarication and cheek. When asked by the
prisoner to “tell the truth,” she courteously re-
plied “ shut up.” The Crown Prosecutor wished
to know why she left her situation, and this pro-
mising young person replied, “What’s that to do
with you?” She had attended dances in Warr-
narabool, had graduated at the Reformatory, and
appeared jusl the sort of virgin who, if her lot
were cast in Paris, would bo found with a bonnet-
rouge and a chassepot at the Barriers, or pouring
petroleum on the steps of the “ Hotel de Ville ” on
Sunday evening. Newman’s counsel, even before
the verdict, congratulated his client on not having
to marry Miss Westbury. He said, “ Any man had
better serve ten years than do so.” In this opinion
we entirely coincide. Even ten years would be
better than penal servitude for life.
It was a bleak night in March, 18*0.
Through the lonely bush the wind swept soughing
and sobbing, while ovexhead the rain clouds were
hurrying up to take part in the elemental strife
high above the town of Howlong. The Kellys
were abroad. So were the police. The outlaws
Eleven policemen under the charge of con-
stable Larkins, took up a strong position near
the Howlong Bridge. Front and flank were well
protected, while proper facilities for retreat had
not been overlooked. Suddenly the moon peeps
round the corner of a watery cloud and the watchers
discovered four mounted men approaching, with
the evident Intention of crossing the bridge. “ The
Kellys,” was whispered by the ambush, and fur-
tive looks were cast behind to see that there were
no obstacles in the way of a masterly movement in
that direction. “Stand,” shouted Larkins. "It’s
all right, Frank,” was the reply. “ Fire,” said the
commander; and a volley passed fifty feet above
the outlaws’ heads. Then the latter—who were
four constables—thought it time to take a part in
the duet. They thought they were attacked by
the Kellys, and were about pouring in a volley,
when some one bawled out, “ Why, that’s old Ned
Smith, of Urana!” Thus, through the interposition
of Providence, and the wild firing of their comrades,
constable Smith, of ‘Jugiong, and constable Dixon,
ofGundagai, escaped unhurt. And this reminds us
of the story told by Gavan Duffy concerning an
Irish militia regiment. Inspection day came, and
the General was simply rampant. The firing was
disgraceful. Not a man in the corps could hit a
parish. “ How is this ?” foamed the officer to the
drill sergeant; “ your men can’t shoot.” “Divila
shoot, yer honor,” was the reply. “ Have you ever
taught them ?” howled the sergeant. “ Is it taught
them to shoot?’* said the sergeant; “falx, I know
better. Bad luck to the landlord ’ud be in the
country in a month.”
During 1881 there were in England 113 col-
lisions between passenger-trains. Twelve persons
were killed and 644 Injured. £185,949 compensation
money was then divided, being at the rate of £383
per head for 656 claimants. The little bill Just
settled for the Hawthorn (Vic.) disaster, however,
shows that £130.000 has been divided amongst 176
claimants—nearly £700 per head. And in the Haw-
thorn jolt only one pexson was killed, and the
bulk or the others were slightly Injured,
What is a ball? A match manufactory.
The maidens’ Spring-time. A pas time. Motions
in the Assembly. The chaperone's mart. A lady
show.
Bedecked with jewels real or spurious,
Female figures rare and curious,
A feast where woman satisfies
Not much the mouth, but more the eyes.
The world we love with all its valse. Cohopera-
ttve society. A refined romp, at which every
grade of imbecility may be studied. A collection
of butterflies and wall-flowers. The' whirled, the
flesh, and the devil. A mass of breathless human-
ity gliding and colliding, hopping and flopping,
hugging and tugging, till it perspires and tires.
The masher’s millennium. A civilized orgie, where
we condone one another’s folly.
A temple where Cupid oft kindles a fire,
A hunt where the game is in silken attire,
A mart where a feather, a flush, or a fan
Helps Ma sell her daughter, for Mammon, to man.
Our luckless fellow-countrymen who lan-
guish in Umbo at Melbourne gaol must, for the
future, contrive to “ rub along T ’ without the Wab
Cry, since the chaplain has forbidden its circula-
tion among the ladies and gentlemen who (for the
time being) are under his spiritual guidance. This
official shows a very delicate regard for the sensi-
bilities of the prisoners in thus vetoing the organ
of the Salvation Army; for, surely ’tis hard enough
for them to be “ doing six months,” without being
constantly reminded of the aggravating fact that
their—in many cases—nearest relatives are “ drop-
ping souls into the fountain” at a comfortable
weekly stipend.
The congregation of that fiery ecclesiastic,
Gilchrist, of Melbourne—who, by the way, is boss
of the Southern Orangemen—appears still to con-
sider that £500 a year is ample recompense for him
when he’s away on “the grand tower” doing
nothing. Dr. Gilchrist—suggestive name, isn’t it ?
—holds out for his full £650.
That his true worth he doth assay,
Is plain as “childhood’s x-hythm;”
He’s just as useful when away
As he is when he’s with ’em.
If that his flock have common-sense,
They will not, therefore, doubt him;
Exit, just plank down the difference,
And thrive as well without him.
Margaret MTntyre recently hauled her
guid mon, Duncan, up to the scratch at Dande-
nong (Vic.) Police Court for maintenance, and
Duncan, who defended his own case, and of course
had a fool for his client, put the plaintiff through
the following cross-examination: —Defendant:
“ Margaret, during the course o’ our married life
did ever I do as KxngSolomon did in keeping wives
and concubines?” Plaintiff: “No, Duncan, you
did not.” Defendant: “ Margaret, did ever I do as
King David did in seeking another man’s wife ?”
Plaintiff: “ No, Duncan, you ctiu not.” Defendant:
“ Margaret, who paid your passage frae Glasgoe to
Melbourne?” Plaintiff: “You did, Duncan.”
This was a purely Scotch case, Duncan swore
Margaret was “ one o’ th’ malst prudent weemin
on th’ airth,” but in an unlucky moment she lent
a twin-brother, one M’Phalrson, o’ th’ auld Ta
Phairson clan, £100, and on that account alone
Duncan declared she “ couldna gang t’ his hoose
again.” So the Bench very properly stuck Duncan
for 15s. per week and costs. Margaret was pro-
bably the lady who, when her husband read aloud
that Solomon had TOO wives and 300 concubines,
exclaimed: “Ah weel, auld mon, I’m thinkin 5
ye’d mek a mighty puir Solomon.”
Arrest and Propagation of the Science of
Divorce.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sea-Gifts.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Give thou a gift to me
From thy treasure-house, O sea!
Said a red-lipped laughing girl
While the summer yet was young;
And the sea laughed back and flung
At her feet a priceless pearl.
Give thou a gift to me
From thy treasure-house, O sea !
Said the maiden once again,
On a night of wind and rain.
Like a ghost the moon above her
Stared through winding-sheets of cloud.
On the sand in sea-weed shroud,
Lay the white corpse of her lover.
Which is better, gain or loss ?
Which is nobler, crown or cross ?
We shall know these things, maybe,
When the dead rise from the sea.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
I’m about to give a Lecture,
Which must surely “ make a hit,
So enlarged and comprehensive
Are the views I shall submit.
I shall paralyse the nation
When I learnedly discourse
On “ Arrest and Propagation
Of the Science of Divorce.”
I have built a special building—
It was finished yesterday—
Yet, immense as is the structure,
There’ll bo many turned away.
All the world's in expectation
(So I learn from every source)
Of " Arrest and Propagation
Of the Science of Divorce.”
There’ll bo special scats for ladies,
And another lot for mon,
With a portion oi the platform
For the children “ under ten;”
Any gents, who seek a sitting
Must be very early there,
For the ladies (as if fitting)
Y re assigned the larger share.
In the course of the proceedings—
Which commence at seven sharp—
You’ll have incidental music
By “ a violin and a harp I”
(’Tis a novel dodge I’m trying
For the ladies—bless their hearts ! —
Just to set them nicely crying
At the sentimental parts.)
The address will be divided
(As will, doubtless, suit me best)
Into “ First part, Propagation,
And the seqpnd part, Arrest.”
But 1 must? admit I’ve reckoned
(Morals now are at their worst)
There’ll be less about the “ second
Than there’ll be about the “ first.’
I shall dwell upon the foibles
Of the modern class of wives.
While commenting somewhat sternly
On the “ humbug” of their lives :
Since, although they go to churches
Always once a week, of course,
They have made such sad researches
In the “ Science of Divorce.”
They’ll be told that “ dickey” doctrines
Have been very largely spread
By a certain class or novels
Suite unworthy to be read:
n the which it always chances
That the heroine’s adored
By a foreign Count, who dances
Somewhat better than her lord.)
Then I’ll tickle up the husbands;
Tell them plainly to the point
How the coldness of their conduct
Oft puts households “out of joint.
As for friends’ insidious blarney,
Such unpleasant things I’ll say
That eacn would-be Don Giovanni
Will rush guiltily away.
For, with words of awful meaning,
I will “ sit upon” the sin
That is made by evening visits
When the husband isn’t in,
Just to whisper low and flatter
With a false deceitful tongue
(That, alone, is “what’s the matter,
When the foolish wife is young.)
Having done with “ Propagation”
In its many varied forms—
Showing all the little trifles
That produce domestic “storms —
I shall try to draw attention
( After fifteen minutes’ rest)
To the way to cure dissension
By the practice of “Arrest,”
In addressing blushing maidens
(Or such as try to blush)
I shall paint “ domestic pictures
With my literary brush.
First explain to them the beauties
Of a married life are great:
Then dilate upon the duties
Appertaining to that state.
How their darlings’ shirts and collars
Should be always pearly white,
And the dinner should be ready
To the minute every night;
How a husband’s estimation
Of his wife is always higher
When he’s lost in contemplation
Of his “ slippers at the Are.”
Yes, the warming of the slippers
(This is far from being jest)
Will be treated as an agent
Most important in “ Arrest;”
And, just there, I’ll give instruction
(So that pathos it may gain)
For the timely introduction
Of the fiddle’s fairy strain.
So I trust, ere I have finished,
Evei’yone will bo awake
To the wretchedness and folly
Of “ committing a mistake;”
And devote themselves (like giants
Who have lately been refreshed)
To the study of the Science
As relating to “ Arrest.”
That’s an outline of my lecture—
Which, as far as one can see,
Should bring profit unto all men
(More especially to me).
Too long the world has slumbered
While Satan played his tricks—
By the bye, the seats are numbered,
And the price is ten and six.
[N.B.— AU the seats are now secured.
SUBURBAN TELEGRAPH BLUNDER:
Daughter (reading telegram): Tell your Ma’ to wait. I’ll be home and skin her at 5
o’clock.
(Correct message—will be home to dinner, &e.)


SCOTCH WHISKEY!
0T THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. 2v£a/tu.recL
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.8.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEYS
IS UNSURPASSED,
It is bottled in bond for Exv rt at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, t.. ref ore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ hiskey Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W, and Queensland.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 Park Street,
IMPORTERS
Of
PIANOS,
by every maker
of renown, from
£25 and up-
wards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE
COFFEE PALACE,
381 GEORGE STREET NORTH.
JOHN JOHNSON, Proprietor.
HAVING opened the above, the Proprietor has
supplied a want long felt In Sydney. The
first floor contains spacious Ladles and Gentle-
men’s Dining and Drawing Rooms, also Single and
Double Bedrooms, replete with every comfort.
A TRIAL IS RESPECTFULLY SOLICITED.
THE AUSTRALIAN
Diamond Drill Company.
CONTRACTS will be undertaken by the above
Company to bore any sized holes, vertical or
horizontal, up to
3 INCHES, OR LARGER IP REQUIRED,
to any depth, at a reduction of 35 PER CENT.
BELOW' ANY PREVIOUS CHARGE.
The Company, in all cases, will find their own
fuel and water for drilling purposes, and will make
no charge for loss of diamonds or wear and tear on
plant, and will also provide workmen engineers, &o.
The new duplex barrel, introduced into the
colony by Mr. J. Ooghlan, will be used free of
charge to persons searching for minerals.
Mr. Coglan has every confidence, from his prac-
tical knowledge of the Diamond Drill, that he will
be able to give genetBl satisfaction, as well as quick
despatch to all ordeiB addressed to the
Temporary Offices, 311 George-street.
JOHN COGHLAN,
General Manager, pro. tem.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH.
On GOLD, VULCANITE, &c., '
made on the most approved modem principles.
Warranted to combine fit, comfort, ana durability,
with perfectly natural appearance.
All dental operations performed with skill.
Teeth stopped, and extracted painlessly.
Charges strictly moderate.
MARSHALL RROTHERS
SURGEON DENTISTS,
106 Market-street, near Hyde Park.
Best work and best materials only.
CRESWELL’S CHOICE SEEDS.
ON receipt of £1, the following collection of
NEW GARDEN SEEDS will be forwarded
tree by return of post to any part of New South
Wales :—
loz. Beet (blood red), loz. Borecole or German
Greens, loz. Brocoli, 3oz. Cabbage (early and
late). 3oz. Carrot (2 varieties), loz. Celery, loz.
Cauliflower, loz. Cress (curled), loz. Mustard
(fine white), loz. Lettuce, loz. Parsnip, loz.
Parsley (extra curled), 2oz. Onions (2 varie-
ties), 4oz. Turnip (3 varieties), loz. Savoy,
loz. Spinach, 2oz. Radish (long and turnip), 2
packets Melons (water and rock), I packet
Cucumber, 1 packet Pumpkin, 1 packet
Xomato, 1 packet Vegetable Marrow.
One half of above collection, 10s, post free. 12
packets of choice assorted Flower Seeds, suitable
Ptesent sowing, will be presented with each £1
Post collection of Garden Seeds. Assortments of
on d S’ c °ntaining Peas and Beans, for transit by
ooach, rail or steamer, for small or large gardens,
trom 10s, £1, £3, and £3 3s each. Payments made
by money order or, stamps.
C. F. CRESWBLL, Seed and Plant Merchant,
474 George-street, Sydney.
MOUSTACHE AND WHISKERS.
Hoyd’s Heard h Hxir did this. and will do II
on either bald bead.or bare face. ' Forces
heavy Moustache in frdna'a to 4 weeks and
never-fail*, 20,000 yov*>K men already wear
full beard, having used 1. to 3 pact's. No
ln Jvry, eailly applied, certain ■ in effect,
•intundar - , Packets Is. 6d. eacb*3fo*3s; 6di, post paid,
_*■»« jSS. l>ou6 “ b -
315 George Street.
Afew of our undertakings MOST SUCCESS
FULLY carried out, among which will be found
£ARGE8T, MOST DIFFICULT, and MOST
kl»P0NSIBLE events that have taken place since
the opening of this establishment.
His Worship the MAYOR’S PICNIC, for 450, at
Clontarf.
His WoraWp the MAYOR’S BALL, for 1600, Bxhl-
bltion Building, at which his Worship. John
gams, entertained their R.H.’s PRINCES AL-
BERT and GEORGE, EARL CLANWILLIAM,
ana toe Officers of the Detaebed Squadron.
V #JL9?J* elr K-H.’S PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Llthgow Valley Mines and Zigzag.
Dinner A la Buste, far 60, in Government Palace
Dining Car while travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000 SCHOOL CHIL-
HREN—r« Queen’s Statue Demonstration—under
VERY SHORT NOTICE, only receiving the
or d er at afeO p.m., to lie ready on the spot at 12JJ0
p.m, the following day.
Visit of THETR R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
HEORGB te Captain Cook’s Landing, south side
of Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon and refresh-
ment, for 100, under VERY SHORT NOTICE, re-
eemng order at 9.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot
at 1 p.m. following day.
MINISTERIAL ENCAMPMENT at the
NATIONAL PARK, Friday and Saturday, 5th
and 6th October, 1883. Breakfasts, Luncheons,
Dinners, &o., for 120 gentlemen.
The LADY MAYORESS’ RECEPTIONS, Town
HalL
The UNION CLUB BACHELOR’S BALL, at Exhi-
bition Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE WINDBYBR.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE INNEa
Dinner 4 la Riuse at St. Paul’s College, for 150 Mem-
bers of the CBURCH OF ENGLAND SYNOD.
Dinner d la Rusk to the INTERCOLONIAL RIFLE
TEAMS, Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at HAWKES
BURY RACES, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at RAND-
WICK RACES, in Grand Stand.
The CONSULAR DINNER, in our new Banquet
Room.
ARMIDALE RAILWAY Demonstrations. Ban
quet for 400: MAYOR’S BALL, 600, same evening
and CITIZEN’S BALL, 500, the following even-
ing.
ALBURY-WODONGA RAILWAY DEMONSTRA-
TION.—Grand Government Banquet for 1016
at Albury. Grand Ball, 800, following night.
Children’s feast,* 1184, the following afternoon
and evening. Also, Breakfasts, Dinners, Teas,
and Suppers, in Government Dining Car, to
His Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus, the
Ministry, and Ms.P., while travelling to and
from Banquet, &o., &c.
Numerous Banquets and Entertainments by HIS
WORSHIP THE MAYOR at Town Hall, &e.
Numerous Dinners d la Rime in the N.S.W
GOVERNMENT PALACE DINING CAR, while
travelling by rail, on account of the GOVERN
MBNT.
Together with a numerous lot of Private Dinners,
Feasts, Weddings, Garden Parties, Balls, Tea
Meetings Land Sales, Suppers, Picnics, Fishing
Excursions, &o.
CADET EXAMINATION, SURVEY OFFICE.
IT Is hereby notified that an Examination of
Candidates for Employment as Cadets in the
Department of the Surveyor-General will be held
on the 28th, 29th, and 30th of November next.
Candidates must have attained the age of 16 years,
or they will not be eligible for examination.
Intending competitors can obtain further in-
formation upon applying by letter to the Surveyor-
General, or personally to the Secretary and
Cashier.
(Signed) P. F. ADAMS,
Surveyor-General.
Surveyor-General’s Office,
Sydney, 10th October, 1888.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
308 GEORGE STREET.
oSSSi
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
’ MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the»NBW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro
ductlon of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and, science wins ; therefore
organise, organise at once, so that everyone car
smoke a decent Tobacco like the favourite LIOIS
TOBACCO, which combines a very superior qualitj
with a moderate price.
HEYDE, TODMAN & CO.,
YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
WOOL SALES, 1883
MY very numerous constituents, and all In-
terested In the wool trade, will please take
notice that my unrivalled
NEW WAREHOUSE
AT
Darling Harbour Railway Terminus
Will be READY FOR THIS SEASON, and that I
shall be prepared to do the fullest justice to the
LARGEST as well as the SMALLEST Clips.
Each lot will be carefully Weighed and Valued
as soon as received, weights and valuations being
submitted to owners so as to hoar from them be-
fore sale if necessary.
Owing, now, to the attendance of Foreign
Buyers, our market is equal to the London Market
—a point well worth remembering. Any Bank or
Firm holding liens on wool will, if asked, allow
owners to send their wool to me ; and any For-
warding Agents, or Managers of Railways or
Steam Companies, will receive and forward Wool
or other Produce on my account, and pay carriage
or other expenses.
ALL PROCEEDS OF SALE will be available, as
heretofore, at ANY TIME after sales ; or AD-
VANCES, small or large, made before sales are
effected.
SALES of LIVE STOCK, TALLOW, HIDES,
GRAIN, SUGAR, and every sort of Produce will
also meet with the greatest possible care.
JOHN BRIDGE.
MORT and GO. (Limited),
WOOL AND GENERAL
PRODUCE BROKERS.
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
Grain and Flour Brokers.
Wool,
LIBERAL ADVANCES
made on
Sheepskins,
Tallow,
Hides, Wheat,
Tin Ore, and
other Produce
for SALE and SHIPMENT.
Wool Warehouses and Produce Stores,
CIRCULAR QUAY
and
DARLING HARBOUR, SYDNEY.
A. & T. PRINGLE & CO.,
269.L
44 MARKET ST.
SYDNEY,
Importers of
WEIGHING
MACHINES,
AGRICULTURAL
IMPLEMENTS,
AND
MACHINERY.
BROWN & MAY’S
Portable Engines, Saw Benches, Chaff Cutters,
Horse Gear, &o.
JpUBLIO NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 482 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
Or. TWO DOORS NORTH OF OLD RHO^
Umum.
82 COLLEGE STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
ARTIFICAL TEETH on the most approved Bng-
Ish Principles, Fitted Pal
tion, Natural Appearance,
lish Principles, Fitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastlca-
‘ ppearance, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping, Scaling, and Extractions skilfully
performed.
James Carroll,
FREE SELECTORS’ & MINERS’ LAND
AGENT,
WENTWORTH HOUSE, CHURCH HILL,
SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
FOWLER’S POTTERY and
BRICKWORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
‘WHAT IS A SECRETf”
SOMETHING told to everybody in a whisper.
Please tell all your friends this Secret, that
they will study both “ Comfort and Economy ” in
having their supply of WOOD and COAL from
NOTTING & CO..
COAL AND FUEL MERCHANTS,
Cowpbr’8 Wharf,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO BAT.
Pianos! Pianos! Pianos!
FREE TRADE and NO MONOPOLY.
Live and Let Live, these are Our Mottoes.
It is a well-known fact that the Foundations of
Colossal Fortunes have been established upon the
Profits arising- from the SALE OF PIANOS In this
City during the past Twenty Years by those
having little or no knowledge of the Construction
and Details of the Pianoforte. While giving the
Public the benefit of our Mr. Young's 26 years*
gersonal practical experience (5 years In John
roadwood and Sons, London, and 20 In N.S.W.),
we will, at the same time, be satisfied with a fair
percentage on the Co-operative Principle, sharing
the Profits with our Customers. We will sell from
25 per cent, less than the same class of Instrument
can be Purchased at any Music Shop in Sydney,
and we will offer nothing for Sale we cannot
guarantee. American Organs at proportionately
low prices. Also a Large Stock of Kohn’s Cele-
brated Austrian Furniture, a single article of
which we are selling at Wholesale Prices.
Come and See Our LITTLE BEAUTIES In Wal-
nut and Full Iron Frame, at £26 cash, Eloswhere
£10 more, or under a Liberal Time Payment Sys-
tem.
George E. Young and Co.,
285 PITT STREET,
South of Royal Arcade.
Singer’s Sewing Machines.
TURNER & CO.
Are the Recognised Agents of the
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS:
2b. 6d. per week —2s, 6d. per week —2s. 0d. per week.
And no interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
|»“ BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE " SINGER,”
TURNER & COMPANY,
363 George-streot.
THE ONLY “SINGER.”
Turner and Company,
578 GEORGE STREET.
iMrti
ARVEsri
ACM
E*V
iPSI
CHAMPIO
ENGINES
AND
THRFSHE*
SAW
Mills
MILLS
f 5
FLEMING’S Carriage and Machinery Repository 1
22 and 23 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy fbr RHEUMATISM,
tf. URALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE.
RAINS, BRUISES, BURNS. SCALDS, &c, and
aken Internally cares DIARRHCEA, DYSENTERY.
JR AMPS, COLIC, and all other Internal aches
vnd pains.
tPrlc©, 2/- Sold Everywhere.
C. E. MOULTON, sole pbopcictor.
MELBOUENL AND teT-L'DN'ETT.
PAINT
jA
ma rhZ-
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT.—This favourite brand
of Stout selected with great care from the
best of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefor*
cannot be excelled. To be procured everywhere.
CATTELL & CO., Sole Agent*.


MaSCOTTB consultations
MELBOURNE CUP, 1883.
10,000 shares at 10s. each £5000
1st Horse ..
2nd „
3rd „
Starters ..
Non-starters
Prize Gifts
£5000
Prospectus on application.
The La Mascotte Company thanks the public to
their support in previous consultations, and heme
for a continuance of their patronage for this pro
gramme.
Application, by letter only.
D. LINDO, No. 8 Tattersall’s Chambers, Huntei-
street, and Box 723, P.O., Sydney.
|3gr- -win positively close November 1st.
R
•ACING SEASON, 1883.
E. E.~JONES,
INTERNATIONAL HOTEL, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE CUB, 1883.
No. 1 CONSULTATION.
ENCOURAGED by past successes, I beg to
announce that I intend having a
SERIES OF CONSULTATIONS
of the above, on the usual distribution.
No. 1 is now open, and will close at the earliest
possible date.
I must request immediate application, so that
fortunate holders may have a good opportunity
of hedging.
Address—
“JANITOR.”
Care of B. E Jones,
International Hotel, Sydney.
N.B.—For the convenience of Town Clients, a
Letter Box will be found in the bar.
((
D
M
N
D.’
MELBOURNE CUP CONSULTATION 1883.
First Horse
Second Horse
Third Horse
Starters divide
Non-starters
Capital £10,000 in 20,000 Shares of 10 shillings each
DISTRIBUTED AS FOLLOWS:—
£8000 3 Prizes of £250 each, £50t
2000 5 Prizes of 100 „ 600
1000 10 Prizes of 50 „ 500
1000 20 Prizes of 25 „ 600
500 50 Prizes of 10 „ 500
£10,00f
Application by letter only, enclosing stamp, to
“DIAMOND,”
Care of O. Sohlebllch.
Watchmaker and Jeweller,
17 Little Collins-street East, Melbourne,
(Near Colonial Bank.)
Prizes paid one day after drawing, and Horses
paid two days after event.
Result slips posted to each Subscriber, and also
advertised in daily and weekly papers. Shares sent
per return post. Prospectus on application.
Letters containing cash should be registered.
If country cheques, must bear exchange.
N.B. —“ Diamond,” in thanking numerous clients
for their support in previous successful racing
seasons, invites their co-operation in the above
03000 on MELBOURNE CUP.
1883.
The Third Consultation of my 1888 Series.
“AU ->TRALAsIA” B W E E P.
12,000 Shares, at 5s each.—An even 4, £1.
First Horse
Second Horse
Third Horse
Starters divide
Non-Starers
Total, £2000.
£1000
500
250
150
100
Prizes at
£25 —£250
10- 500
6- 250
£1000
Grand total, £3000
The success of former events induces me to an-
nounce the next on the Melbourne Cup, the
greatest racing event of the year, as above.
Results advertised in leading papers, and for-
warded to all subscribers. A pound secures four
chances— not one only. Ten per cent, is deducted
for all expenses. Applicants are requested to en-
close notes, P.O.O., or crossed cheques (to which
exchange must he added), and 4d. stamps for reply
and result. Register letters.
Address—" AU -TE.ALA8IA,”
Care of Mr. H. J. FRANKLIN,
Printer and Publisher,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
M
ELBOURNE CUP, 1883
’LEVIATHAN “ADAMASTOR” COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £20,000 in 40,000 SHARES of 10s Each.
824 PRIZES (more or less), £12,750 for STARS,
8 " 4 £7350 f 0r Worses.
Plan of Astronomical Distribution:
First Horse (winner of the Melbourne Cup)... £3000
Second Horse
Third Horse
Starters (divide) -Sj!
Non-starters (do)
£2000 *,
First Star
Second Star ..
♦*+ Third Star
1000 V
500 **♦
12 stars of £200 each, 100 stars of £100 each, 20
stars of £50 each, 20 stare of £40 each, 45 store of £25
each, lOO towns of £10 each, 200 towns of £8 each,
85 towns of £6 each, and “the comet £40.
“ Adamastor,” in thanking his subscribers tor the
liberal support that he has received from them for
the past three years, and in consequence of the
vearlvincrease of subscribers, finds it necessary to
double his programme, which he begs herewith to
8U Alfparties are requested to forward drafts, P.O.
orders, or cheques: if cheques, exchange must be
added, and in all cases postage fees; if cash, to
register letter. Application by letter only, ad-
dr “ 8 ATVAMASTOR,” care of L. A. Pereira, 34
Melbourne: Box 473 6.PO
Sydney; and Little’s Bass Hotel, corner Pitt and
Market Streets, ® e^ n ®^' country shareholders, and
published in The Australasian, Age, and Sydney
♦town and Country.
Mgr- will positively close November 1st.
'i. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
.Herature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
iirilsli Papers and Magazines received l»r
every Mall.
>YAL ARCADE. 496 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
"puDjg a/Bng sjafsoj
WOOL SEASON, 1883-4.
R. Goldsbrough & Co.
(LIMITED),
la which are amalgamated The Australasian
Agency and Banking Corporation (Limited),
and R. Goldsbrough and Co.,
WOOL & GRAIN BROKERS.
Capital.
£3,000,000.
BEG to notify the Woolgrowers of New South
Wales and Queensland that they make
Liberal Cash Advances, on favourable terms, on
the ensuing clip of Wool, and on Station securities.
They have also much pleasure in announcing that
(heir NEW WAREHOUSES at Darling Harbour
will be ready for the reception and sale of Wool,
Auction Sales of which will be held every FRIDAY
throughout the season. This department will
remain under the control of an efficient staff of
experts, who will take charge of and Sell to the
Best Advantage all consignments entrusted to the
Company’s care. The Sales of Fat Stock (at
Homebush), Station and Freehold Properties.
Grain, Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, and General
Station Produce, wilt bounder thesuperlndenoeof
Mr. GEORGE MAIDEN. The Warehouses will be
unrivalled in the Southern Hemisphere for extent
and adaptability to the trade, being replete with
every Modern Improvement for the Elhclent Dis-
play cf Wool, the sale'of wnich will b • conducted
on the Melbourne system. Large and complete
samples of each clip will be shown in the well-
lighted SAMPLE ROOMS, which comprise the
whole of the upper floors, and as the bulk will bo
easily accessible in the various rooms, which are
convenient to each other, the fullest tucilities will
be available for inspection, thus ensuring the ut-
most confidence in purchasing. Prior to offering,
valuations will be made by several experienced
valuators, and their valuations will be carefully
compared before the wool is submitted for sale.
The various lots, no matter how small, will be pro-
tected un to the fuli market value. As they con-
fine their business strictly to that of SELLING
BROKERS ONLY, the best guarantee is afforded
that no parcel will be sold for less than its worth.
Funnels’ Lots receive special attention, every bale
and sack In the clip being shown in the Sample
Rooms. Should owners’ expectations not be
realized in Sydney, they have the advantage of
trying the /jelbourne market before deciding on
shipment in which latter case the Company is pre-
pared to make liberal cash advances at lowest
market s-mes, and consign to the English, Conti-
nental, or American markets for disposal. The
charges on Wool offered for sale, but not sold, are
only ONE SHILLING PER BALE, which includes
Receiving, Warehousing, Insurance whilst in store,
and Delivering.
LONDON-156 & 157 LEADENHALL STREET.
MELBOURNE-BOURKE& WILLIAM STREETS.
SYDNEY-4 SPRING STREET.
WRIGHT, HEATON & GO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE ;
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.8.W.:
Goulburn WaggaWagga
Hanging Rock
Yass
Bowning
Blnalong
Harden
Young
Cootaraundra
Junee
Culcairn
Cowabee
Narandera
Hulong
Carratnool
Hay
Western District, N.8.W.:
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblln
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
Capertee
Bathurst
Blaj ney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromlne
Nevertire
Northern District, N.8.W.:
Morpeth Brewarrina
Qunnedah Tamworth
Narrabri Uralla
Walgett
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Line:
Brisbane Yeulba
Roma Cambooya
Dalby
Rockhampton
Bogantungan
Emerald
Central Line:
Capelia
Comet
Northern Line;
Ravenswood Junction
Townsville
Charters Towers
Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M'CULLOCH ft CO., LIMITED.
pr Agencies in all parts of the world.
UMBRELLAS
re-covered.
CJTUDY ECONOMY
© and
Have yourU mbreila Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
cuted.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
WIRE WORKERS,
W7"ISH to call your attention to WIRE GOODS
W we make and have in stock as under
FLOWER STANDS, for holding flowers in pots,
made of iron and wire, handsomely framed and
bronzed, suitable for rooms, halls, balconies, ver-
andahs, and conservatories. Also, WIRE FERN
BASKETS, all sizes and prices.
SIEVES and SCREENS, for screening lime,
gravel, coal, &c., all meshes, from 1 hole to 100
holes to the squares Inch.
WIRE LATTICE-WORK, for protection of win-
dows from breakage caused by hail-storms or boys’
throwing stones. Also, WIRE NETTING, all sizes,
from 12 in. to 72 in. wide.
CAGES of every description, for canaries and
parrots, singly or in nests, suitable for store-
keepers.
And every description of WIRE WORK made on
the premises.
EASTWAY, BROTHERS,
413 GEORG E-STREET.
fg* Illustrated Catalogues on application.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
W. H. Ariel/ and Co. ’s Agencies.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, Canter-
bury, Normanby, and Christmas Family Cakes,
Plum Puddings, Mincemeat, Self-raising
Crated Flour, Infant’s Food, Treacle and
EXCEl^IOB^SflLLS.—Superior Victorian Oat-
meal and Pearl Barley. , , _
DILLON & BURROWS’ prize assorted Confec-
J. & SONS, No. 1 Mottled and Toilet
J. F. MCKENZIE & CO.’S Coffee, Mustard, Cocoa,
Tea, in and Ub. packets ; dressed Rice,
and Patent Groats. .
HUNT & CO.’S Prize Baking Powders, Adelaide
Jams Paper Bags, Sec.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
BLEND
jjRADEj
Ji
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.-Thls is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with delicacy
if taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Igents.
P. KIRBY,
Prom the late Mr. Jambs Cubtis,
■Crn.da.©rteJsor,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
JOHN DAMNS,
IMPORTER OF
Skits ail Tricycles
AND ALL THE NECESSARY
Fittings for same,
363 Pitt Street, Sydney.
fj
St
1
Jr'
V
’J:
1
IKS
ft
~
w
S
Sts
Hv 1
•K:
m-
szm
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Markel.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE;]
MERCHANTS.
Virgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
Robert butcher & co
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
TO CONNOISBIJRS of WHISKEY & BRANDY.
W. & A. Gilbey’s CASTLE BRAND WHIP.
tvEV and L’OR EXTRAIT BRANDY are the
oldest and purest spirits imported.
TUCKER & CO., Agents,
377 George-street.
EVERY DESCRIPTION OF FISHING TACKLE,
Wholesale and Retail.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE STREET.
A. GORMAN,
Late of the Telegraph Hotel, InveroU,
HAS OPENED THE
‘ Clsureaa-dLoaa.,’
Corner of ELIZABETH & PARK Streets,
And which he Intends to keep as a first-class Hotel
A G hones, by strict attention to ButineH. to
gatna shar P e of their PATRONAGE. VlfflgW
will find this surpasses most of the leaflJW
HOTELS for ACCOMODATION every CON-
VENIENCE ; and, as it overlooks HYDE 1 ARK, it
must necessarily be WELL VENTILATED.
SUITES of BOOMS for FAMILIES,
as per agreement.
HOT and COLD WATER BATHS.
W 1
PORTER in Attendance Day and Night.
It is not necessary to mention the quality of the
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, &c. &c,, Mhel8,
ways has been, noted throughout the COLD
for selling nothing but the very beat.
r ILCOX ms MANGLES
.JL*. WASHING
AND gg
Mangle and 111
wringer, £4 10
HBBBLEWHITE & CO.
416 GEORGE STREET.
A
DINNER,
A ONE
SHILLING.
'*/
\ s**%
* if **
PITT STREET,
& NEXT TATTERS ALL S.
All Meal" One -o*.
J. C. GREENFIELD, Lao
K


Prepared according to the directions o Ftol.
B. N. Hereford, of Cambridge, Maw.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED FOR
DYSPEPSIA. HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA. WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY, &o.
No Danger can Attend its Use.
Nervous Depression from Overwork,
Sluggish Circulation and Drowlng Chll-
dreiii
,. Sandusky, 0., May 21, 1880.
I have used your Acid Phosphate and ciln pro-
nounce It a very valuable addition. I And It use-
ful and beneficial In nerVouS dyspepsia, nervous
depression f ollowing overwork and anxiety, as well
as the gastric derangements. Where there is
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation, a dull,
heavy head, It is of undoubted value. Fast grow-
ing children require this valuable addition.
W. R. PAGE, M.D.
Liver and Kidney Derangements.
in™, to th,
SrtSSli* e 'SS^ ineMl " lr ' Md Witt tto most
I give it in dyspepsia and In all cases where there
Is derangement of the liver and kidneys. With
my patients it has agreed wonderfully.
O. G. GILLEY, M.D.
Nerve Tonic.
rr A ' Carpenter, M,D., Keene, N.H., says :
Hereford's Acid Phosphate Is a valuable medi-
cine. I have taken It myself, and for several
a good nerve tonfc, and In''some"cMra“of “morbid
.acts like a charm,’ produclug the desired
result. It is pleasant to the taste, acceptable to the
stomach, and is. In my opinion, an excellent and
valuable compound. *
|Can be borne by the most Sensitive
Stomachs.
„ , Haven. N.Y., March, 1880.
Hereford s Acid Phosphate, In elegance of com-
position, stands unrivalled. It is pleasant to the
teste, and can be borne by the most sensitive
stomach. Have prescribed ft with marked benefit
In indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms an
excellent substitute for lemon juice, and as such
will furnish a refreshing drink for the sick.
A. L. HALL, M.D.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
2v<Ea.g'ic Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
“ It Works like a Charm.”
It Is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches Are. It cures
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Bruises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an Internal remedy it tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Throat, and Oyo.
ttaerla.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL In the house, or on hand for Immediate use In
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists. Grocers, and Dealers 1b
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best Imported into this country, and have
gained throughout the colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the Iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. 1
leather, and the upholstery is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes ars
used In their finish
BECAUSE they are each and all built under special
instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage builders In America!
and specially constructed for the Australian*
climate
And because all who use them say they abb thb
best.
American Carriage Emporium,
WTNTARD SQUARE, SIDNEY.
BARRO-N. MQXHAM & CO..
Bole Agents.
When Alexandre Dumas, the elder, went
to fight a duel with Gaillardet, ho was accom-
Eanied by his friend BIxio, a doctor, who said to
lm: “Shall you hit Gaillardet, do you think?”
“ I don’t know,” replied Dumas. “ Weil, try to,”
said the doctor. “ I shall certainly try: but do you
dislike him ?" “ Not at all; I don’t even know
him.” “ Then why are you so anxious ?” “ Well,
have you read Menace's 4 Etruscan Vase?” 44 Yes.”
Then, don’t you remember that he says every
man killed by a bullet turns round before he
drops ? I want to see if it's true.” He had no
opportunity of seeing on this occasion, for the
duel was fortunately harmless; but the pendant to
this story is that BIxio himself was shot some years
afterwards at a Paris barricade-shot to death—
and, as he fell, turning, he cried, “Ah, one does
turn, then 1”
THE SYDNEY QUARTERLY
MAGAZINE.
The Sydney Quarterly Magazine of Lite-
™t.ur®11 ® 8 our table. It is issued by a “ club,”
introduction.” The preface of a work
I ?. over ko skipped In it the reader usually
Fdmpse of the author and of the menu. In
“°«!hnvTri >r * C8 ' 1,8 the “ Old Testament ” and
espeare, the writers seldom or never show;
°J 8 ’ there is little of interest remaining once
f„ e^ ro * aC iPi,^ a8 J t ,eerl mastered. The introduction
the publication under review tells us that “the
f, oa Fevity and usefulness of any periodical are
Inverse ratio to the magniloquence with
which its good intentions and virtuous resolutions
torth in the first issue.” Should the con-
verse hold good, there is a long and useful career
before the club s magazine. It is a neatly-printed
* °j so , r ? e hundred pages, and the writer of
the mtroducllon, with a touch of humour appar-
ently unconscious, •* considers it due to the public
that a reason for our existence . . . should b©
given here. The authors,” ho observes, “are not
only ambitious but youthful and ardent. . . Our
contention is that new scones and new countries
ought but to create fresh fields for literature. . .
And in proof we can point to the writings of such
men as Bret Harte and others of that school, who
y their genius invested the roughest pos-
sible types of humanity . . , with a pathos and
humour that have gained for their authors world-
wide renown.” This seems to be the ration d'etre
pt the new publication, and it only remains for us
to examine with what success the “ youthful and
ambitious contributors have carried out their
laudable desire of emulating the author of “The
outcasts of Poker Flat” and “Tennessee's Pard-
ner, in investing “the roughest possible types of
humanity with a pathos and humour that have
gained for their authors world-wide renown.”
• • •
The foundation-stone of a history of N.S.
Wales is laid by Mr. Bourne. In the ordinary
acceptation of the term, N.S. Wales has no history;
at least, none that would tempt the historical
student to rise from the pages of his Voltaire,
Gibbon, Grote, or Buckle. He tells of the auto-
cratio sway of the early Governors, the insolence
of the N.S. Wales corps, the struggles of the early
settlers, and the attempts made to force a way
through the mountain barrier into the unknown
country beyond. Scarcely preferable to the lives
of the early convicts were those of the free immi-
grants who first put a spade in the New Holland
wilderness. Subjected to the caprice of obscure
military tyrants, the treachery of savages, and
the mutinies of those made outcasts by a penai
code as pitiless as the ecclesiastical polity of '-pain,
their lot was far harder than that of their fellow
countrymen, who, nearly two centuries before,
sought refuge from priestly persecution in the
new lands beyond the Atlantic. About Mr.
Bourne’s contribution there lingers an amateur-
ish, prize-essay odour, suggestive of the class-
room and of the waste of midnight oil. “ We
have become accustomed,” he says, “to the men-
tion of the fmt that Stabo, Pliny, Ptolemy
Edrlssi, and Agathemerus dreamed of the exist-
ence, long years ago (under the names variously
of the ‘Great South Land.’ the ‘Golden Chero-
nesus,’ and so on) 01"—in,fact,'N.S. Wales. Captain
Cook’s journal is dismissed as " commonplace and
unromantic enough.” Of Muir, one of the “ Scotch
martyrs” transported to N. 8. Wales in the early
days, the author records that he escaped from the
hardships of penal servitude only to succumb to
“ Paris picnics”—a sad ending, truly, to which we
courteously invite the attention of Mr. Stuart and
others, resembling as it does the fate of Old Parr,
who, after battling against the world, the flesh,
and the devil for a century and a half, died through
indigestion from a full meal unwisely placed within
his reach by the courtiers of Charles II. An in-
sight into the historian’s trenchant stvle may be
gleaned from the following sentences: “ We should
have been to-day Franco—and not Anglo—Austra-
lians if the Astrolabe had been a luckier star (sic)
and a speedier ship. If!”—and “Let us not resur-
rect such a dead past. It was; it is not; it never
more shall be.” “It never more shall be,” certainly,
but how Mr. Bourne is to write history without
“ resurrecting the dead past" is probably a '* club ”
secret.
• • •
“ There came a pilgrim old and grey,
And with a sunset in his eye.”
The responsibility for this statement lies
with Dr. Le Gay Brereton. It is to be found in
bis ballad “The Flower of Gold,” He does not
tell us which eye the wanderer employs in
carrying this uncomfortable beam, or whether
the old man can distribute the “ sunset ” so as to
make each organ do its share of the work. On re-
flection, however, the difficulty disappears, or, at
least, is greatly reduced. For, if it be possible for
an ordinary person to carry a cataract in his eye
without serious inconvenience, it is. perhaps, not
asking too much to allow “ poetical license ” the
privilege of placing a well-conducted sunset in one.
But on this subject no opinion is of much value
unless the pilgrim himself could be produced, and
the carrying capacity of both eyes impartially
estimated. The old party is weary, and remarks to
the curious crowd around him
“ I’ve travelled far and long;
One single night I tarry here.
Then eastward must I bear along.”
But the rustics are determined that he shall not
“bear along,” having possibly taken a fancy to
the “ sunset,” and so—
“ They rush upon him—hath the ground
Swallowed him up ? Or hath the air
Claimed him ? He IS not to be found,”
and thus those inhospitable bumpkins are deprived
of pilgrim, flower of gold, and Sunset, for their
conduct—a fate for which they deserve little pitv.
* ♦ ♦
Yet another bard. Mr. Bladen—a slight
alteration would have changed the name to one all
must admire in whose breasts poetry finds a home
—prints his “prize University poem,” the “Land
of China.” In it we are told of that jealous land,
where
“ Nan Ling’s heights their snowy foreheads lift,
And watch the lazy cirrus seaward drift;
And there the beauties of fair Pho Ting’s lake
Might tempt an Eve her Eden to forsake;”
and, further,
“ Rejoice, ye sons of Shem, rejoice to see
Your child of light—Immortal Kong-foo-tse.”
Many of the “Immortal Kong-foo-tse*s” country-
men have found their way to our shores, and eke
out an honest livelihood in various ways. In a
knowledge of the sort of night best adapted for
predatory operations, they retain all their old
Superiority. But their music and dress have not
Impressed Us favourably. Why the Child of light,
Kong-foo-tse, should have chosen td confide his
revelation to them will pfdbabiy remain unknown
until a satisfactory explanation is found for a mu oh
higher rOVeiallOn having been vouchsafed to the
progenitors of those who cry the “ odds ” from the
world’s saddllng-paddocks, or lend money at 1400
per cent. A curious omission about this “ prize
poem” is that there is no mention of curry,
rioe, chop-sticks, or porkee-porkee, from begin-
ning to end. It is in some measure owing to thi
forgetfulness that its
“ Couplets after couplets creep
Propitious to the reign of sleep.’*
• •
Miss Holden writes on ‘Institution Re
form,” and holds that cultured women should take
their places, “not alone on boards and committees
but as superintendents, managers, secretaries, anc
directors, with authorities and powers as large anc
free as men’s alone have been hitherto, as the
legitimate right of their valuable and responsible
work." Quoting Napoleon, sne exclaims: “ Whaf
France wants is mothers.” Considering the 3.000,000
of possible fathers of whom “le petit caporal ” de-
prived his adopted country during his twenty
years’ term of office, it was a little ungenerous of
the great soldier to throw the blame on the women
We nave known institutions controlled solely by
men, others by women, and some by mixed com-
mittees, and—we are not at present enthusiastic in
support of Miss Holden’s proposal. Before women
can hope to compete successfully with men in
many things, they will have to learn much and
unlearn more. They will have to undergo from
their cradles a training and education which not
one female in ten thousand passes through now
We are strong advocates for widening woman’s
sphere and rescuing her from the frivolities and
disabilities which at present hang round her career
like a veritable “ old man of the sea,” but the true
pioneers of this social revolution should be women
themselves and, alas I that it should be wrung
from us, it is they who throw most obstacles in the
way.
* * *
Since Mr. Jones wrote his paper on the
“ Vagaries of pseudo-Sclenoe” the news has arrived
that Professor Denton, whom ho criticise*, is no
more. We have not se n the late Profesior’s book
•• The Soul of Things, or Psychometric Researches
and Discoveries,” but, assuming Mr. Jones’s ex-
tracts to be correct, it is hard to understand how a
scientific man could put his name to such stuff
It would be impossible to understand it did we not
know that some of the brightest Intellects of our
time have been landed in the most grotesque ab-
surdities in their endeavours to bridge the chasm
separating the seen from the unseen universe.
“ Faith, fanatic faith, once wedded fast
To some dear falsehood, hugs it to the last,”
And no mastery of literary or scientific erudition
appears proof against the bizarre superstitions of
our day.
(Continued in next paga).
* The Sydney Quarterly Magazine. Priated
for the 8.Q.M. Cmb by J. L. Holmes and Co., 315
Pitb-atreet, Sydney.
An Obituary.
So Death, for thee, on his grim head
Donned the black cap.
And. Mr. Marwood, thou art dead.
And damned, mayhap.
Life hangs upon a thread, they say—
And thou should’st know,
Who hath so many hanged that way—
And thine hung so.
Sure ’twas the last drop in the cup
For thy renown
To fade so: wer’t thou not cut up
To be cut down ?
Great artist ! Flax-man of the rope,
Whereon has swung
So many subjects, who we hope
Were all well hung—
Thou who did’st shoot the bolt so well
And rig the knot
That sent so many—where, who’ll tell?
Thy bolt is shot.
Alas, to Death thou hadst full low
To doff thy hat.
Thou who did’st tie like any beau
The last cravat.
The gallows was thy fam’ly tree,
And thou did’st twine
Thy life with it; the rope for thee
Was no bad line.
Did’st thou die happy? or were all
Thy last thoughts rife
With sorrow for what Cockneys call
A hemp-ty life ?
Some little jobs of thine, perforce,
Were somewhat loose
In treatment; but these things, of course.
Are entre-noose.
We wonder if where thou art gone—
Don’t think we scoff—
Thou haply still art working on
At working off t
We hope so, and that scoundrels still
(Though here unvoxed)
Who do not hang in this world, will
Hang in the next.
Adieu!—there goes a scalding tear!—
Our grief prevails;
Mayhap that thou below oan’st hear
Our New South Walls.
In reprinting from Queensland Punch the fol-
lowing bit of Bret-Harteish verse, on account of
its singular literary merit and manly ring, we cry
“ Author ?”
JACOB LOW,
Died, Sept. 14, 1883. Aged, 76 years.
“Passed in his checks!”
Ay, mate, no tick
When old Death becks -
It’s cash down slick.
This 'ere old man,
Whom all did love,
Has done his span
And gone above.
Yer don’t say so?
What I Never knew
Old Jacob Low ?
The worse for you!
The truest friend
Earth ever bred,
True to the end—
And, now, he’s dead!
He was a queer,
Hardy and bluff.
Old pioneer—
A diamond rough!
No “side ” with him.
No two-faced part,
No corners dim
Down in hti heart.
Refined ? Well, no,
To fashion cold.
He warn’t no beau.
But true as gold!
Same ev’ry day ?
Why, mate, d’yer see,
He’d smoke his clay
With you or me.
Or take a pull
At pot of beer
Quite affable,
With us two here.
No snobbish song—
But he were quite
Your mate, so long
As you was “ white.”
No count in dress,
No count in style.
But “ white,” I guess,
“ White ” all the while.
He warn’t no pup.
He’d never frowu
(Cos he were up)
On others down.
He’d “ put it there,”
And grip and shake,
Oh I he was square
And no mistake;
One of the sort!
Worth while to know—
Took no one short—
No kind of “blow.”
A politician ?
Well, not so much;
’Twarn’t his ambition
To pose as such.
He’d sit quite mum
Within thet Chember—
His nickname come,
“ The Silent Member.”
But he could vote
As straight as dies.
He turn his coat
No blooming files!
There warn’t no doubt
About 1m chat,
No in-and-out—
He warn’t no rati
We (don’t it strike
You with amaze ?)
Don’t breed men like
Him now-a-daysl
It would be queer
If he’d no snow
Aloft there.—Dear
Old Jacob Low!
In Memoriam.
MR. MARWOOD, HANGMAN.
DIED SEPTEMBER 4, 1883.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
GRATIFYING.
“ This is kind, dear Mrs, Fitzsmith. I scarcely hoped you would so promptly return
my call.”
“ Oh, don’t mention it. There are some duties one oan’t get over too soon.” (Inter-
mission of several minutes).


KING TAWHIAO.
Monk’s New Zealand Herbal
Remedies
Trade mark —“ King Tawhlao.
The n.z. herbal extract
can be administered to Infants of the most
tender age, and to all other pa( lents, however weak
and delicate, with perfect safety and certainty of
IMMEDIATE RELIEF AND EARLY CURE-
THE N.Z. HERBAL REMEDIES
are made solely
FROM HERBS, SHRUBS, AND BARK,
indigenous to New Zealand only,
and NO DRUGS hitherto known to the medical
world are contained In the above medicines.
TheN.Z. Herbal Extract cures ABSOLUTELY
Dysentery, Diarrhoea, Choleratlc Diarrhoea, and
Cholera, as NO OTHER medicine yet known to
the world can do. It CURES, equally well, chronic
or acute cases of the WORST kinds, and gives
INSTANTANEOUS RELIEF in every case.
From Capt. Cromarty, U.8.S. “Penguin.”
Auckland, June 19th, 1883.
Dear Sir,—I am much pleased with the action of
Sour “ Herbal Extract” that you supplied me with
n the passage to Fiji I cured one man of an
attack of Dysentery with three doses, and on
the return voyage a lady brought a child on
board very ill with Chronic Dysentery, which the
doctors could not cure in Fiji; the second day
the Dysentery stopped and the child left at
Auckland getting quite strong and hearty. I
am, dear sir, yours faithfully.—W, L. Cromarty
What a Medico Says I
Ranglora, July 7,1881.
Sir,—Having carefully examined the N.Z Herbal
Extract, I find It to be a skilfully prepared vege-
table preparation, possessing the properties of the
plants from which It is derived in a highly con-
centrated state, a fact which I have verified by
evaporating a fluid drachm placed in a watch-
glass over a spirit lamp. On weighing the result,
a dark green extract, 1 found the weight to be 14M
grains. On further submitting the extract te
analysis I found it to be rich in tannin. In a large
number of cases of ordinary diarrhoea, as well as
in many chronic cases and in dysentery, I have
proved it to contain great specific control, added
to the unusual feature in a majority of diarrhoea
medicines, that it does not subsequently constipate
the bewels. I fell satisfied that, from the number
of trials I have been enabled to make of it In a
somewhat extensive practice, it is a most valuable
addition to modern therapeutics.
The following cases are taken at rundown from
my note book
Mrs. M-
Case No. 1.
„ ’ West; Byerton, suffered for two
years from Cnronlo Dysentery, which had reduced
her almost to a skeleton. After a fortnight’s trial,
not only had the Diarrhoea stopped, but she com-
menced eating meat without pain and the usual
concomitant vomiting. In two months she had
gained 18ibs weight.
Case No. 2.
A. »., child, aged five years. Fortnight Diarrhoea.
Was effectually cured on the third day.
Case No. 3.
A soldier who had contracted Dysentery In
India got a small two ounce phial, and was well
before he had finished half of it.
(Signed)
Charles DeLaoy MacCarthy, M.A., M.B., See.,
Trinity College, Dublin,
Surgery, Ranglora, July 1881.
Monk’s New Zealand Herbal Mixture
for Neuralgia.
The mixture acts like a charm in the above pain-
ful disease, and giving instantaneous relief.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
From Captain Kennedy, U.S.S. “ Hauroto,”
Port Chalmers, February 7th, 1888.
Dear Sir, —Thanks for the Medicine you were
kind enough to send me. I have only to say that
in my case—a severe attack of Neuralgia in the
head—it afforded me considerable relief. It has
also the advantage of not being in the least nause-
ous like most remedies.
I remain, dear sir,
Yours faithfully,
Mr. H. D. Monk.
A. Kennedy.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
fc** Any Person suffering from DYSENTERY or
DIARRHOEA (no matter how long standing, or
how bad the case) will be supplied with MONK’S
NEW ZEALAND HERBAL EXTRACT, a Certain
Remedy, FREE OP CHARGE (upon production
of a card or a note from the Mayor or an Alderman
of the Municipality in which he or she resides to
the effect that the sufferer is too poor to pay for
the Medicine), on application te .
FRED. J. MUIR and CO., or
HORACE D. MONK, Proprietor,
09 EJlzabeth-street,
Near King-street, Sydney.
"T CONQUERS PAIN.-HE ADVISES
PERSONAL FRIENDS.
HIS
“GlenVlew, Darlinghurst,
“ August 17,1883.
“ Messrs. Publishers Bulletin, Sydney.
“ Dear Sirs,—It gives me great pleasure to say, In
the most unqualified manner, that I have found
St. Jacobs Oil the best preparation for Rhematism,
Gout, and other pains, that I have ever used or
known. A member of my family was suffering
from a severe attack of rheumatic gout both in the
hands and feet. The pain was most excruciating.
I suggested her using St. Jacobs Oil, and am pleased
to say the result was of a most satisfactory charac-
ter. After one or two applications the pain en-
tirely left, and up to the present have had no
return of the trouble. I look on St. Jacobs Oil
as a universal panacea for all kinds of aches and
pains. I have advised many of my personal friends
to give it a trial, and have heard from them that
nothing they had overused did them so much good.
It is, without doubt,the only Household Remedy
of modern times, and I shall always keep a bottle
within reach.
“ I remain, dear Sirs, yours faithfully,
** j, r, Drewett 99
NOTE.—Mr. Drewett is the well-known town
buyer for Messrs. 8. Hoffnung and Company, Pltt-
street, one of the largest and prominent firms in
all Australia.
HOW A USELESS ARM WAS RESTORED IN
TEN MINUTES, or the experience of Edward L.
Green, Esq., Government Sheriff at Auckland,
N.Z.
“Auckland, New Zealand, August 16,1883.
“ Messrs. Publishers Bulletin. Sydney.
“ Dear Sirs,—I have great pleasure in stating I
had occasion to use St. Jacobs Oil for an old injury
I received to my shoulder in June, 1882, and from
that date until July 10th last. I could not use my
arm, and found great difficulty in writing. I ap-
Elied to medical men and used all sorts of liniments,
ut without any benefit; but I had not used St.
Jacobs Oil more than ten minutes before I felt the
beneficial effect, and I can work with my saw or
spade as well as ever I did, and can strongly recom-
mend this oil to any one suffering from muscular
ailments. You can make what use you please of
this letter for the benefit of others.
“ I remain, dear Sirs, yours, &c.,
“Edward L. Green, Sheriff.”
St. Jacobs Oil, the great German remedy, con-
quers pain. Sold by Druggists, Chemists, and
Medicine Dealers throughout the world. Price in
New South Wales, half-a-orown a bottle. Direc-
tions for using in 11 languages.
ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney,
Wholesale Depot for N.8.W.
“Let sleeping dogs lie” is the Hon. G. H.
Reid’s advice touching the present relationship
existing between England and Australia. In this
we entirely concur. Those who advocate a closer
union—an Imperial federation—have not looked
far enough ahead —have not seen the sleepers across
the rail. In this list must be placed Mr. Bben Ather-
stone Jones, who in his contribution “ The Federa-
tion of the British Empire” shows his innocence of
the difficulties in the road and of the problematical
benefits which would result from tnelr removal.
He quotes the Rev. Joseph Cook (a name we hold
in high esteem) ns having said in one of his Sydney
lectures “ Had England treated us (the Americans
of 1776) as well as she has treated you, the British
Empire would now include the territory from
Labrador to Rio Grande, and from Portland to the
Golden Gate.” We have no doubt the Rev. Mr.
Cook said so, and we are equally certain he would
forget to express the same opinion before a New
York. Boston, or San Francisco audience. Can
Mr, Jones be unaware of the fact that, when a
strolling actor or a peripatetic politician stands
up in the bam that does duty for a town hall in-
let us say—Mudvllle to tell the three shearers and
ten small boys comprising the floating population
of that “fierce democracy” that the eyes of the
world are upon them, and that their energy should
cause the blush of shame to suffuse the brows of
the supine burgesses of Blanktown, it is possible
that some corrections may have suggested them-
selves to the orators when they reach Blanktown ?
That the Americans would not so soon have de-
clared for independence but for the stupidity of
George III. is well known. That, with sixty mil-
lions of people, they would consent to be governed
from London, or that Englishmen would elect to
be ruled from Washington, or look complacently
on while the Yankees supplied to the House of
Commons twice as many members as Great Britain,
is a supposition which, we trust, is confined to the
Rev. Joseph Cook and to Mr. Eben Atherstone
Jones. An Australia of three millions derives
many advantages from her political dependence
on a strong power which good-naturedly allows
her to do almost as she pleases. But what benefit
a united Australia of fifteen or twenty millions (to
be looked for early in the 20th century) could
derive from political leading-strings, Mr. Jones
owes it to his readers to show. This is a point
which budding colonial writers and statesmen
severely avoid. We take it that an American of
to-day would justifiably feel insulted if told either
by Mr. Cook or Mr. Jones that the States would be
more prosperous or secure if their chief magistrate
were Queen Victoria instead of President Arthur.
Englisn writers and statesmen are far ahead of
colonials in this matter. They see that, in the
nature of things, the union cannot bo permanent,
and so they wisely allow things to drift on until
the time comes for the Inevitable separation.
• • •
“ Index ” contributes an article on “ criti-
cism,” and discreetly conceals his name. As the
criticism of a criticism on criticism is beyond us
Just now, we gladly pass on.
* * •
Repressive legislation should be at once
introduced for the silencing of writers using the
Words "anent” and “yclept,” When, in addition,
“Oyez” pens 1 "And banquettlng Belshazzers,
with groat unease and trepidation, paling, read the
mystic handwriting on the wall,” wo feel that the
repression must be stern and unrelenting.
♦ ♦ *
In “The French in Tonquin,” the writer
shows his acquaintance with the art of discoursing
on a subject with which he happens to be unac-
quainted. “ In the attempted annexation of Ana-
mese territory, France has made a great mistake;
she has preceded instead of following the track of
commerce and trade.” Had the French adopted
the writer’s theory, the pirates of Algiers would
still be relieving the tedium of their lives by a
lucrative barter in European slaves. Gounod’s
“Faust” deserves all Mr. Biggs has said of it, and
a good deal more. In it the most perfect mastery
of harmony is to be found wedded to the most
enchanting melody. Whether through accident
or design, the writer “ Ajax ” has adopted the
worst literary style with which we are acquainted
—always barring Martin Tapper’s. He worships
Oxford and Cambridge. Morhleu, if he only knew
the really clever men they do not make, but rather
unmadie , he would tone down his raptures. This
is how he ends : “This shallow descantation thus
delivered of its last laboured periods, now, O most
genial * Finis,’ obtrude thyself herewith I *' Some
short articles of no special note carry us along to
a “Holiday Ramble in Victoria,” by E. C. Spicer,
M. A..; and “ Life,” by H. Wlllan Jackson, M.D.
• • •
The first page of Mr. Spicer’s narrative
explains at once the grave error made by Sydney
orthodoxy in putting him forward as its champion
against the powers of darkness, represented by
Mr. Bright. The second and third pages have the
effector a mild narcotic : the remainder prompts
you to seek the open air, and commune with that
Nature that has been so travestied, if you
possess a serious turn of mind—to take refuge in
profanity or crime if you are volatile and mercurial.
Your Sydney friend will take you to his charm-
ing home, and, pointing out to you the special
loveliness of his particular view of the harbour,
will say to you, in effect, what the Spaniard says in
fact, ‘This house, sir, is your own.’” We have
lived long in Sydney, and can honestly say that our
experience does not quite tally with this. The
only person we can call to mind who invited us to
consider ourselves at home was a cross-eyed secre-
tary to a building society, who was shortly after-
wards apprehended for embezzlement. The tene-
ment he invited us to consider “ours” had done
service in early colonial history as a refuge for
fallen women. Its command of the “special
loveliness ” of the harbour would have been per-
fect but for the interposition of a hill which some
old-world volcanic commotion had placed just
outside the front door. There was a time—so an
aged crone next door told us—that the Blue Moun-
tains could be seen from the back, but an oyster-
shop and a Methodist church had long since cut off
hope from that direction. Speaking of street
architecture, Mr. Spicer remarks : “ Sydney has
florid decorations upon its splendid edifices, and a
singular penchant for ‘carvings,’ which sometimes
develops itself in weird gurgoyles and smiling
heads, where you expect, if not severity, at least
sobriety.” The Post Office was certainly in his eye.
But we contend that the Post Office people know
what they were about when designing those
“ weird gurgoyles.” We have more than once ob-
served keen-eyed officers from French, Italian, and
German war vessels viewing those, and passing
silently on, conscious that their own played-out
countries could produce nothing like them. But
wo must hurry on. It was “ Jackie,” one of
Mr. Spencer’s fellow students at the Melbourne
University, who first proposed the trip to Fern
Tree Gully, which supplies the subject for Mr. S.’s
paper. Jack—called so because his name was
something else -on bruiting his proposal, has “ the
long arm of a medical student extended towards
him” in “silent appreciation.” We have had a
good deal to do with medical students. A grave
injustice has been done thorn by that stupid story
of Bob Sawyer and his friend Bon Allen. They
are not hair-pins of this description at all. There
are some wild ones amongst them, of course, but,
as a rule, they are young men who, it must bo
confessed, rather bore one with singing hymns
and talking about their absent mothers. So the
wild dogs, Jackie, Ross, Spicer, and others, start
on their ramble. The first object that attracts
their attention is the Yarra Bend Lunatic Asylum.
This suggests stories of the vagaries of madness,
only one of which the narrator gives. It was his
own, and as we have seen it in print in moat Euro-
pean languages during the last forty years or so,
we object to telling it again.
MARCUS CLARKE
“Weird melancholy.
From the melancholy
gums strips of white
hark hang and rustle.
The mopokes burst out
into horrible peals of
semi-human laughter.
The natives aver that the
Bunyip rises. Alllsfear-
iaspiring and gloomy.”
BEV. MB. SPICEB.
“There Is something
. . . weird about Aus-
tralia. These gaunt
gums with their spectral
branches. The curious
melancholy whistle of
of the curlew . . . ends
with a tlnale fortissimo,
agitato, staccato. . . The
Imagination of the na-
tives has peopled these
woods with such strange
and eerie beings.”
Mr. Clarke wrote in 1880 a preface to the poems of
Adam Lindsay Gordon. Mr. Spicer in 1883 “a
Holiday Ramble in Victoria.” The lark sings
for the poet of to-day as ho sang for Horace
and Shelley, but it looks bad for to-day’s bard t®
follow Horace and Shelley too closely all the same.
The moon hanging her lamp above brought the
ramble to a close. She was “ swinging low above
the silent hills,” according to Mr. Spicer, but on
this phase we have no desire to dwell. It is enough
for us that after a dinner “ hot and steaming” the
writer “filled up with measureless content —and
sausages, we feel half disposed to say—“ finds pass-
ing through him that indescribable mingling of
past emotions which every musical being has ex-
perienced after hearing the grand performance of
some master, when Intangibly soothing sounds float
through his brain like the vibrations rising and
falling upon the air after the chiming of a peal of
bells.” In the ballad poetry of last century, when-
ever the word “ childhood ” appeared at the end of
a line, the reader could confidently shut his eyes
and lay a heavy wager that “ wildwood ” would be
found bringing up the rear of the next. About
eighty years ago a lady described the sky in some
part of America as being “deeply, dandy, beauti-
fully blue,” and, for a generation afterwards, the
description was applied to every patch of blue seen
in the zenith by emotional females journeying
through Pale-dine to study Christianity and poly-
gamy. For centuries men wandered through Italy
and the Valley of the Jordan, stood before muti-
lated statuary, fat Madonnas, or the stony beds of
dried up pools, and told the world in similar
words of the emotions that thrilled their souls on
viewing the masterpieces of art and the gorgeous
scenes in which Christianity was cradled. An
analogous groove is being pursued by Australian
descriptive writers. We suggest, then, that when
a person takes a holiday ramble in our conti-
nent, and subsequently writes about “gaunt
gums,” “ spectral branches,” “ tortured limbs.”
melancholy whistles,” or “weird and eerie
beings,” the authorities be empowered to inter-
fere. If we are to have an indigenous literature,
let it bo unconventional, masculine, original—free
from the fripperies of fashion or the jargon of the
sixth form. It is not meet that, on the solid
foundation - stone buried so deep by Gordon,
Clarke, and Stephens, the champions of respectabi-
lity and commonplace should be suffered to run
up their tawdry structure of lath and plaster,
• • •
No fresh light is thrown on “Life,” by Dr. H.
Willan Jackson’s paper. While he confines himself
to the physiological phenomena his ground is safe.
But when he leaves physical organs and their
functions behind, and endeavours to obtain a foot-
ing in psychology, the Scotch blacksmith’s defini-
tion of metaphysics suggests itself—“When the
party wha listens dlnna ken what the party wha
speaks means, and when the party wna speaks
dinna ken what hisself means, that is motapheesics.”
“ A spiritual body,” the doctor says, “ can only be
seen by spiritual eyes; and it is only by permission
of the Divine Providence that a spirit can be seen.
Scriptural evidence on this point is also abun-
dant ” — and unsatisfactory, he might have
added. “The soul is a substantial organised
form, corresponding with the external material
frame.” If so,, many men will sigh for entire
annihilation. “ For the soul is no mere principle
of Intelligence and immortality, but a substantial
entity. . . , The narrative ot the tranflguration,
the parable of Dives . . . the dialogue between
Christ and the penitent malefactor, are familiar
examples in support of the existence of substan-
tial spiritual bodies. Thus, then, have I attempted
to bring under notice some new ideas regarding
Life.” The Doctor’s ideas are not so novel as he
Imagines, but they are utterly at variance with the
views expressed by some of the acknowledged
leaders of modern science. Not that those leaders
are a whit better informed than Dr. Jackson on
the subject. The difference between them and
him Is, that they know nothing on the matter, and
are not ashamed to acknowledge their ignorance,
while he, with just the same absence of trust-
worthy evidence, is apparently convinced that he
knows much.
At Christchurch, N.Z., a landlord, hearing
that one of his tenanis had not met his bills on the
4th, immediately clapped a bailiff into the pre-
mises, with a demand for rent to the amount of
£18. The tenant had receipts which showed that
he only owed £8—hut they were of no avail; the
landlord was Inexorable, and sold un all the effects
at a heavy sacrifice, and the poor tenant was
ruined. The latter having filed his schedule, and a
trustee having been appointed, the landlord was
subsequently compelled to disgorge the £13 he had
overpaid himself for rent. An Irish landlord
doing a thing like this would have had daylight
through his constitution two days afterwards; but
New Zealanders are a law-abiding people, and will
probably manage to get the law of distress
rent repealed somewhere about the year 10 001a |d.
Ashburton Hash.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ In the recently-proved will of the late Baroness
Ashburton, the testatrix directed that she should
be burled with all her rings, and that a plaster cast
of her late husband should be placed in her coffin.”
While Mary Jane skips round—she has to do some
Clear-starching now and then to make things
meet—
We’ll sit us down, and pen a ballad gruesome
As leader in the Foreign Winding Sheet.
While our dear love boars down the lodger’s shirt,
on,
And with a box-iron our table stirs,
We’ll sing about the Baroness Ashburton
And this exceedingly strange whim of hers.
A solemn theme—a theme we feel quite able
To handle properly (ah 1 there she goes—
Look here, my dear, if you were at this table
We don’t think even Sladen could compose)
A solemn subject for a bard to think of—
A topic fitting well our sober pen.
(The Devil 1—there you nearly knocked our ink
off ;
Don’t irritate our Muse like that again.)
An undertakers’-plcnic sort of theme,
Of blind worms, and the cypress, and the mould—
(That cursM iron stifles us with steam:
Can’t you leave off, when once you have been
told?)
She loved him all the more that he was dead,
And bore to her dark grave his cast in plaster.
(Now, Mary Jane, you’ll mind us when we’ve said
We’ll blanked quick show you who’s to bo the
master.)
Death came not to her as a monster fell,
For Love was stronger than all Death and greater.
0 Fate I OLovel OLilel O Death 1(0 well,
The kid’s awake in the perambulator!)
She wont to meet him wearing all her rings,
To show the dear old love was not forgotten.
(For Heav’n’s sake, take the child, and leave those
things.
See 1 that last lino has got a two-inch blot on.)
She went unfearing to the dim environ
Where slept her husband—(listen I Mary Jane.
Take up that baby, and put down that iron,
Or else we’ll slog you—is our meaning plain?)
O, never in the world before was heard
A tale of constancy as pure as this is—
(We will not wait to write another word;
We’ll simply belt the stuffing from the missus I)
MR. BOLAM.
A Ballad of Bolam’s Billet.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Referring to Mr. ox-inspector - General - of-
Sohools-Bolam, of divorce celebrity, who is to
be divorced from his billet, the Herald states:—
“The Government fully recognise that Mr. Bolam’s
services, extending over a period of fifteen years,
entitle him to consideration, and if some suitable
post in the public service can bo found, wherein
the necessity of setting a high example of propriet y
and decorum is less imperative, it will be offered
to him.”
“ If you have tears, prepare to shed them now,”
If you have bullock-bells, prepare to toll ’em,
While wo endeavour to conjecture how
They’ll find a billet suitable for Bolam.
For fifteen seasons he has moved in what
Is known to Melbourne as the best society;
And now he seeks a station where it’s not
“ Imperative to study high propriety.”
How will they fit him ? We can hardly guess,
Seeing the very lively sort of scrape he
Has got himself into. They might—oh, yes—
They might create him an up-country J.P.
Or, as his goings-on were not enough
To quite demoralize a Chinese tea-ship,
They might, to fill his China plate with duff,
Just help him to a vacant C.M.O.-ship.
MRS. BOLAM.


o.
mHE FOLLOWING STALLIONS will Stand
J. the ensuing Season at RICHMOND, where
flret-class Paddocks will be provided for Mares,
sponslMHty •~ TG tlnd attention, but without re-
MARIBYRNONG
GRAND FLANEUR
RAPID BAY ..
MOORTHORPB
JULIAN AVENAL
MONMOUTH ..
BEAUCLERC ..
CHILDE HAROLD
at'h^f'4rice' bred Mar6S Wl11 be teken t0 Beauclerc
m^ h Horse will be limited to 16 of the public
Ja^uair^lSSt U8t be pald for and removed b y
ANDREW TOWN, Richmond.
<5L
L Y D E S D
L E 8 .
rmMa f0 l 1 m ln i, I .W te(1 Pl,re Clydesdale STAL-
LIONS will 81A NT) at Richmond the coming
Season, when first-class Paddocks will be provided
for Mares, with every care and attention, but
without responsibility
m MUIR LAD,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
_ DAVIE,
Terms —0 Guineas per Mare.
GALLANT SCOTCHMAN,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
Comment on these Horses is unnecessary. They
have proved themselves on all the principal Show
Grounds of the Colony, and their Stock have done
the same, their progeny at six months old selling
at from 50 guineas to 100 guineas each.
January ™1884 USt P£dd * or and by
ANDREW TOWN, Richmond.
SEASON, at TOCAL,
PATERSON, the following Thoroughbred
THE DRUMMER (Imp.) Subscription full.
QOLDSBROUQH,
By Fireworks put of Sylvia, by Fisherman (imp.)
put of Juliet (imp.) by Touchstone. He is Sire of
tho following winners .-—Kamllarol, Morpeth,
Hilarious, Galata, Carmen, Empress, Tillemby,
Wheel of Fortune, Sou’ Wester, Mlleta, Kalpanu
Primrose, Lord of the Lake, Townely, King’s Own)
Honeydew, &o., &o.
101:1118 15 guineas each mare.
STRUCK GOLD,
r Struck Gold is a beautiful dappled brown,
hands* with splendid bone, great strength,
and beautiful symmetry. His pedigree oannot be
surpassed (as he combines the much-prize detrains
of Blrdcatcher, Sweetmeat, and Bay Middleton),
which is as follows By the Miner (the only horse
in England that ever beat tho mighty Blair Athol),
out of Whinnle (dam of Whip, a great performer,
and winner of seven weight-for-age races in one
season), by Pellon, out of Tapioca, by Sweetmeat
(t“0 sire of Macaroni), out of Ellon Middleton
(Wild payroll's dam), by Bay Middleton. The
Miner is by Rataplan (full brother to Stockwell).
put of Manganese, by Irish Blrdcatcher, &c.
Struck Gold was placed second to Chester at the
late Intercolonial Show, beating Loup Garou,
Imported Eaatley, &o. ’
Terms : £5 5s. each mare.
Good paddocks for the use of mares, with plenty
of grass and water. Every care taken, but no
responsibility incurred.
Season commences 1st September, 1883, and ends
January 1st, 1884, when all mares must be paid for
and removed.
Mares sent by steamer will be received at Mor-
peth ; by train at West Maitland, on receipt of
reasonable notice. For further particulars, apply to
P. REYNOLDS, Tooal, Paterson.
KIRKER, GREER, & CO., DISTILLERS
BELFAST and GLASGOW.
LOCH DHU, veryoldest and purest Scotch
Whiskey.
SHAMROCK, veryoldest and purest Irish
Won 4 Gold Medals and Australian Exhibitions.
Government Analyst says: Unusually pure,
mellow, and well-matured.
FROM ALL SPIRIT MERCHANTS.
«... x „ Agent; G. ADAMS,
119 Pltt-st., Sydney, and Fllnders-st., Molbournne
SEARL & SONS,
NURSERYMEN, SEEDSMEN, BOUQUETI8TS,
And Artistic Floral Dinner-table Decorators,
3 and 5 GEORG E-STREET MARKETS, SYDNEY;
Also,
BLAIR ATHOL NURSERY, PETERSHAM.
O?” Pelargoniums now in full bloom. Inspection
invited.
THOMAS MUNRO,
&T HERALDIC ARTIST AND ENGRAVER,
PLAIN AND FANCY STATIONER,
10 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
A Large and varied assortment of Letter Books,
Account Books, and all office requisites. Purses,
Albums. Plush Bags, and Reticules; Artists' Mate-
rials, Photo, and Picture Frames, Illuminated
Scripture and other texts. Birthday, Condolence,
and Memorial Cards.
Agent for August Huenerbein for Pianos, Or-
gans, and Music. The Engraving workshop being
under my own management, I feel confident in
suiting the public taste.
mo STAND THIS SEASON at MULQRAVE,
etalUcuu* 1, the Imported coaching’
PERFECTION,
the thoroughbred horse,
TESTATOR,
and the Exmoor pony,
UNCLE TOM.
a brown horse, 5 years old, stands
i<.l bands high, perfect in symmetry, with grand
action. His pedigree is as follows Sire Coker’s
Perfection, g s Warthe’s Perfection, gg s Jackson’s
Perfection, g g g s Cattpn, g g g g s Bay Becking-
ham, g g g g g s Grand Conqueror, g g g g g g s
Henderson s King George. i)am by Old Pheno-
™°°o n (which horse was sold for 806 guineas), g d
by Wink s Champion. Two half-brothers to Per-
fect on were sold for 500 and 800 guineas respec-
tively. when 5 and 3 years old. PERFECTION
took 16 first prizes, and was never beaten in a show
ring.
TESTATOR, by the Tester (imp.) out of Rosedale
(imp.), the dam of Kingsdale, winner of the
Hawkesbury Guineas, &c., &c.
UNCLE TOM, winner of first prize at late
Sydney Exhibition, by Sir Thomas (imp.), out of
Pretty Star (imp.) He stands 12 hands high, has
Immense strength, beautiful symmetry, and per-
fect action. Pretty Star’s dam (Starlight) was
champion racing pony In England, having won
over £2000, including a match for £500, and was
never beaten.
Terms—
PERFECTION :
Mares left In paddock.. .. 8 guineas each.
Mares taken to horse .. ..6
TESTATOR .... 4
UNCLE TOM 3 ” ”
Good paddocks provided, and every care taken,
without responsibility. As only a limited number
of mares will be taken, early application is neoes-
GEORQE 8. YEO.
THE Imported Blood Stallion,
GRANDMASTER,
(Sire of Sting and Sussex) will Stand at Minimbah
this Season. Terms ; Fifteen Guineas per Mare.
Also,
LECTURER,
By Kingston, dam Sappho. Terms f—Ten Guineas
per mare.
The Proprietor will give two Cups, value £25
eaeh, to be run for at the Northern J.C. Meeting,
season 1886-7, for then two-year-olds, the produce
of mares served this season by the above horses,
respectively.
_ , Also, the Blood Stallion.
KING OF THE WEST,
by Gemma dl Vergy, from Princess by Little John,
nor dam Tomboy by Marquis from a Camerton
Mare. He was a good performer in the best com-
pany, and ran through five seasons, being wonder-
fully sound, and of fine com-tltutlon. At three
years old he won the Mudgee Maiden Plate, beat-
ing Novice and Constance; besides running several
times placed. At Four, won Hawkesbury Turf
Club Handicap, beating, among others, Stanhope,
Ladybird, Jav lin, Burwood, and Viva ; and was
several times second and third. At five years’ old
ho won the Hawkesbury Turf Club Handicap, for
the second time, carrying 7st., beating Stanhope,
7st. 91b.. Athos, 6st. 71b., Othello, 6st. 111b., Sweet-
briar, Sir Solomon, and four others. At Rand wick
Spring, won Waverley Handicap (7st. 121b.) beating
Evangeline, Sunbeam, Ladybird, Llama, Viva, and
four others. Won the Stewards’ Cup, at Bathurst,
carrying 7st. 81b., beating Blair Athol, Little King,
and eight others. Won Hawkesbury Summer
Handicap (7st. 111b.), beating Wrangler, Priam, and
seven others ; and ran second to Beadsman for the
Cudjegong Handicap, at Mudgee. The following
season he did not score a win, but ran unluckily,
as he had run on many previous occasions.
Terms : £5 5s, per mare.
The Draught Horse,
GRAND AUSTRALIAN,
will Stand this Season at Minimbah. Terms: £3 6«.
per mare. He is 5 years old, bred by Mr. E. Larkin,
Appln, by Honest Tom, Imported ; dam Lady Lin-
coln, imported. He served 111 mares lost season,
100 of them proved in foal. He is, without excep-
tion, one of the finest horses ever bred in Australia.
All mares to be removed and paid for by 1st
January, 1884.
Good paddocks. Every care taken, but no re-
sponsibility incurred.
D. F. MACKAY,
Dulcalmah, Whlttingham.
TO STAND THIS SEASON, at Duokenfleld
near Morpeth.—The Thoroughbred Stallion,’
HENCHMAN
(late Friday), full brother to Robinson Crusoe, the
sire of Navigator, by Angler, out of Chrysolite,
will serve ten approved mares, besides his owner's,
at Thirty Guineas per mare.
Also,
CROWN PRINCE,
by Kelp’e, out of Queen’s Head, by Yattendon,
out of Gazelle, will serve ten approved mares,
besides his owner’s,
at Ten Guineas per mare.
Splendid paddocks, and every care taken of
mares sent to the above horses, but no responsi-
bility incurred.
All mares must be paid for before removal.
Season ends on 1st January, 1884. Mares not re-
moved on that (late will be charged ten shillings
per week each up to date of removal.
JOHN BALES.
Duokenfleld. September 18th, 1883.
JOHN P. COWLES,
Tea Inspector, Packer, & [Shipper,
FOOCHOW, CHINA.
389 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Reliable
English and
American
FLOWER
AND
VEGETABLE
SEEDS,
I wit
Kentucky
Blue Grasses, See.
AMATEUR
and Professional
GARDENERS
should Call
and
Inspect our Seeds.
We have every Variety
and only the
Very llest (J fades
and Dualities.
[Our Lawn Mowers
are all GUAEAHTEED,
| and so confident are we of always being able
- to give satisfaction that we will scud
i our I.awu Mowers on approval.
\ We make tke
Ik awn Mower Trade
a Speciality I
I bave in Stock all sizes* so tbe reQiiire—
ments of everyone can be mot.
Onr Prices range from 30 Shillings,
and any Purchaser who is dissatisfied after
trial, is at liberty to return the machine at
our expense.
We Invite Inspection, and cheerfully
furnisli every information.
REMEMBER. JWE GUARANTEE EVERY LAWN MOWER WE SEME OUT.
TRICYCLES.
J C SebSS VED ' * “™ c 8hlpmeM « f «">
Excelsior Tricycles,
For Ladles or Gentlemen.
Send for lists and TERMS of Payment.
Repairs executed by experienced Coventry
bicycle makers. J
BAYLISS, THOMAS & CO.. 68 King Street
N
Sale Ersrtxsiorclxxa.ar'sr I
°Sni°o?l!l™re°,uW™£L‘r “i? *"*“ *' V “ by U!ler Henry '
COMPELLED TO SELL OtTR LARGE STOCK OF OVER
200 PIANOS AND ORGANS
before the end of this month.
This is the more unfortunate, as we have only Just landed some beautiful Instruments which hv
reason of their excellence of finish, would command high prices, but which we must turnTlJTiT
lower rates than our competitors ask for Inferior goods wmon we must turu over even at
—"id trial '
THE SMITH ORGANS, from 11 to 90 guineas, will be sold during the month at liberal discounts.
David Lee says “ By far the finest instrument of the kind I have ever seen.”
Julius Herz says : The nearest approach to the pipe organ which ever came under mv notice
J Churchill, Fisher the eminent Professor of Music, writes I am 4ppv to te™ffy to the
excellence of your Smith American Organs. The one In use In the Public Training School Fort-street
solo 8topf” aCtl ° n ’ I<B t0n ° 18 PUrG and P lpe ' llkeiu
A Clergyman aaya “ During the last three days I have visited every music store In Sydney, but
have found your instrumouts far superior both in quality and cheapness.” y y ’
GASH ; OR THE EASIEST TERMS. Illustrated lists on application to
CEAMPTON & BRUCE, 281 George Street,
OPPOSITE HUNTER STREET.
W.
i
THE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO.
are the largest consumers off American
, Leaf In the colonies, hence the FIRST
7 position for quality is assigned to their Twist
and Flat Tobaccos —Yankee Doodle, Conqueror, Sir Roger (thick
twist), R. 0. Ruby, Oriental Mixture, and others.
CIGARETTES.— Their CONQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold an equal position.
®" D * & s » Importers of Pipes of every kind, Cigars, and all Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods and Sundries
A CUP OP GOOD COFFEE
IS WHAT YOU WANT, BUT SELDOM GET.
0"" THEN ASK YOUR GROCER OR STOREKEEPER FOR
A. G. Churchwooa’s Crown Brand
BLENDED PROM THE FINEST MOCHA. JAMAICA and CEYLON BERRIES.
2v£a.rtlrx DEZeeslxsin,
STAR & GARTER HOTEL
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
As no expense has been spared in the erection of the Hotel premises, M. K. guarantees country
visitors and others the best accommodation, combined with civility.
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OVER PALING’S),
I OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged by
• u, ah branches of Photography executed in the most artistic stylo.
\ R ■
•-BOYD (OVER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or Indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
L. E. HENDEESON, Manager.
TRICYCLES I BICYCLES I TRICYCLES!
THE 8PARKBR00K
NATIONAL
TrlC3rclo,
The only perfect Double Driver, being
fitted with the
Patent Differential Double
Driving’ Hear,
Is the PRETTIEST, the NEATEST, the
NEWEST, the BEST,
Tricycle; j
Has Ball Boarlaga to all WHEELS and
PEDALS, and is, from Its Safety
and Base of Working,
Especially Adapted to Ladies’ Use.
The English Field, of 2nd June, 1883, says:—“The SPARKBROOK NATIONAL TRICYCLE is
driven by a gearing which forms one of the most clever and ingenious contrivances we have vet seen used
for this purpose. Its practical success is attributable to its simplicity. In Its behaviour on the road It
fullv realised our expectations, both in case of propulsion and the facility with which it can he tmided
and controlled.' w
PRICE LISTS, OPINIONS OF THE PRESS, TESTIMONIALS, &c.,
ON APPLICATION TO
TO S GO., Sili Agents, 307 Siirjt Strut,
OPPOSITE HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.


Nowhere perhaps has the dentist’s art obtained
such high excellence as in Sydney. Certainly w®
are in no sense behind any other city. Visitors to
Sydney might, to test this, visit the establishment
of Messrs. Adolphe Gabriel and Company, 18 Wf n '
yard Square, two doors from Pfahlert's Hotel.
Here the manufacture of every essential in tne
Srofeesioa Is carried on. At the rear of the surgery
i a compact little factory where all the reouisitt*
for Bupplyfpg every dental defect in the human
mouth are made. Messrs. Gabriel and Co. (whoso
only address is as above) are always pleased *
show their specimens of artificial teeth to tnos*
interested. There being two firms of the sam
name in the Square, patients will oblige by pay*“j
particular attention to the Christian name, AdoipC;'
and the number, 18, two doors from Pfanlen •
Hotel.—An vt.
Printed and Published by The Udlletin News-
paper Co. (Limited), St Sydney,
As the New Guinea matrons suckle young
orphan pigs, it follows that the latter are not un-
froquently foster-brothers and sisters of the New
Guinea “humans.” Thus we gradually approach
the solution of the “missing-link” problem—the
hog. in this instance, having dethroned the more
aesthetic monkey.
Notwithstanding what the satirists have
said about him, we had some faith in Oscar Wilde,
out now we begin to believe he is a humbug after
all. Not a humbug: without some genius, remem-
her, for it takes genius to humbug successfully,
and whatever else he may be, he is a very graceful
writer. But when we read this sort of thing we
got ill. He is replying to an American reporter
who asks him about nis knee-breeches and his
hair. Thus;—“I have given up knee-breeches
for a time, and I did put myself in hands of
a hair-dresser. Everything has changed. Art
“ as not one form only. It is only necessary
to follow the essence of art, and one may dress
beautifully without wearing knee-breeches. That
style of dress was (worn when long, flowing wigs
were in vogue. Removing the knee-breeches
necessitated a curtailment of the hair. Many forms
of dress are beautiful if the laws of art and colour
are observed. For the present I shall not wear my
hair long—not, at least, tUl I have thoroughly thought
the matter mKr." The italics are ours, .lust ima-
gine any sane creature thoioughly thinking the
matter over as to whether he should wear his hair
long or short!
Bah, Oscar! do you think the world
Cares if your locks are straight or curled,
Or thick, or shed off ?
Or do you think a cuss we’d care
If, when your barber cut your hair,
He’d cut yOur head oil ?
The enterprising
brothers Hodel have
brought out the Nobth-
hrn Standard (Towns-
ville) as a daily. The
Standard is an ably edited
paper, which says what it
means in plain Saxon. We
are sure it will succeed.
Mr. A. G. Taylor is
going to bring in a law to
deal with legal pracii-
tloners. The simple public
have been dealing with the
lawyers too long. In
future let bills, and bills
only, deal with them.
There’s millions in the
idea.
“ Body of a man found
hanging from a tree near
Townsville. A camp was
found about fifty yards
from the corpse, and inside
was a blanket, and a Bible
with Robert Stevens on
the fly-leaf. It is supposed
that deceased was a new
arrival." Why ? On ac-
count of the Bible 1
At last it has come.
By “it” we mean a picnic
at which Mr. “Dan.”
O’Connor, M.L.A., was not
present. But there was a
good reason for his ab-
sence. There were two
picnics on the same day,
and Dan naturally went to
the one whose promoters
had most votes in his con-
stituency. We Judge from
Dan’s presence at the
lumpers’ picnic that ho
sees lumpy water ahead in
West Sydney.
Amongst the publica-
tions forthcoming for
Christmas, it is rumoured
that D. W. B. Sladen has
projected a work in verse
under the pleasing title of
“ BJorksteiguoldenll e d e r-
krampf fur Australienls-
chenschrlfft.” as an ap-
pendix to this burst ot
poetic fire, there will be
added by Dr. Badham
some Interesting redac-
tions on the polimpsests of
the pre-Sophoolean era of
Greek literature. A collec-
tion of algebraic formula;
by the professor of Mathe-
matics, and a dissertation
on “ comminuted tibia
considered in relation to
secondary zymotlcs,” pro-
mises somthing light and
Juicy for holiday reading.
The Waqqa Adver-
tiser mildly states that
“ weights and scales must
necessarily get out of
repair.” Down our way
wo know some scales that
are very much out of re-
pair, indeedso much that
at the bottom of the scoop
where the potatoes go in,
there is a chunk of lead
embedded in a cataplasm
ot cobblers’ wax, and in-
side the “ hollow " of the
31b-weight is a foreign
substance bearing a sus-
picious resemblance to ce-
ment. We are quite sure,
of course, that the enter-
prising proprietor of these
scales nas not the faintest
Idea that there is anything
wrong with them. He is
aware, perhaps, that they
“ must necessarily get out
of order;” but that is all.
And if you even but
hinted at either the lead or
the cement, his virtuous
indignation would take the
form of a brick.
Queen Isabella, the chaste—so-called either
because she received the decoration of the Golden
Rose from the Pope, or because she was chased
out of Spain on account of her immorality—on
passing through France, was met at the railroad
depot at Biarritz by the late Emperor and his son,
Louis, then a mere boy. “Where is she going?”
asked Louis. “ She is going into exile.” “ Where
is Exile, pa V asked the boy. Napoleon III. patted
his son on the head, and replied with a smile:
“You will have that explained to you when you
grow older.” Nap. probably had an idea how
much prophecy there was in his remark.
There is a row between the Louth
Liberal and the Bourke Watchman. It seems
that the Liberal calls Mr. Doidge—“ Phoebus,
what a monnikerl”-“Yerney," and accuses him
of having been insolvent. Mr. Doidge seems to
object to this, though Mr. Rugg, in“Lfttle Dorritt,”
spoke with some pride of his lather as having
been a law-stationer who had “failed for two
hundred pounds.” Mr. Doidge, however, is very
much offended, and demands, it appears, “the
fullest apology, and such other satisfaction as we
shall name, after taking advice; falling which wo
shall be under the necessity ot suing the editor of
the Watchman for substantial damages at the
proper time and place.” We are grieved to notice
that the Watchman does not receive this threat in
a spirit which might have been expected, but is
disposed to be jocular on the subject. Prom this
we infer that the Watchman Is disposed to regard
the legal Doidge as but an idle threat. If the
belligerents will take our advice they will simply
drop it. If they go at one another, they will each
“copit” for a critical dissertation of the talents
of the sexton, or an unfavourable critique on the |
performance of the bellman.
There are twenty-three men In a Turkish
monastery, who say they have not seen a woman
since infancy. We daresay. We suppose there
are nearly as many as that In this city, who have
not seen a woman. They are in the Blind Asylum.
And they are happy.
When Wimble went to Claims to reside, he
was accompanied by a cask of carefully-selected
whisky. The number of friends who took a deep
interest in Wimble’s welfare, while that cask held
out, Included all the respectable young men in
Cairns. It was a beautiful and affecting sight to
sec these Jovial convlvlallsts collected round that
cask about ten at night, and assuring Wimble of
the splendid future Cairns offered to a man of his
magnificent abilities. About two in the morning
the selections of vocal music that wore heard in
the vicinity of Wimble’s whisky barrel made every
sick man in the neighbourhood patiently resigned
to death whenever it liked to come. But the in-
side of the barrel swiftly became a vacuum, be-
fore even the aatenished Wimble could form a
resolve to put hisjfoot down, and drive in the
bung with a smith’s hammer, and after that the
barrelites said he wasn’t at all a bad fellow, but
hadn t half enough nous for North Queensland.
This black ingratitude fired Wimble with a resolve
to order a cask of last season’s Mackay rum, with
ten per cent, of sulphuric acid in it, and this “ nec-
tarious” beverage will be placed absolutely at the
disposal of that section of his friends who loved
him for his whisky’s sake. It is expected that the
future death-rate of Cairns will amaze the vital
statistician.
They are going to melt down the statue of
the Duke of Wellington, which, for years, has
stood almost facing Apsley House (the Ducal
mansion, and something, in a much bigger way,
after the style of the Burdekin mansion in Mac-
quarie-street), and mould it into a new one. We
have often seen the staiuc (before it was on
crutches) to which we allude. It was a feeble
effort of the sculptor’s art, and was placed so high
up on an arch that no one but the Initiated could
know whether the late Field-Marshal held in his
hand a telescope, a pistol, or a saveloy. We thought
it was a saveloy for years, until we were set right
by the present Dukel The statue Is just by the
place (Constitution Hill) whera Arthur O’Connor
attempted the life of (hats off 1) Her Most Gracious
Majesty with a flintless pistol loaded with tin-tacks
aud oatmeal. “ It was observed,” said a chronicler
of the time, “ that a sterner expression came over
the face of the statue after this blood-curdling
event.” [We don't endorse this.—En. B.]
Jack M'EIhone’s temperance speech is very
amusing; but, then, Mac is usually entertaining on
any subject. If ho had his way, he said, ho would
knock out the head of every cask of liquor that
came into the country. This couldn’t be the same
man vh° said, on the hustings, that he would fight
to the last against those puritanical humbugs who
sought to rob the poor man of his beer. Of course
not; that would bo Inconsistent, and Mr. M‘Elhone
is never inconsistent. Adorned with every grace
that nature is heir to, and that Providence can
bestow, covered with the flowers of oratory as
with a garland, the member for the Upper Hunter
can afford, more than most men, to mark out a
°° ur ?? independent of question or party; but is
not his attack on Mr. Stuart, re the Illawarra
railway, suggestive of that of Mr. Gregsbury, M.P.,
who was accused by Mr. Pugstyles of voting
against his hustings’ promises because the wife of
a Cabinet Minister had asked Mrs. Gregsbury to an
evening party? We won’t refuse to see Mac when
he comes to see us. He shall have a stool In the
larder, and the run of his eye-teeth as long as he
likes to stop there.
The other day a lady went to the police
court to prosecute her hub. for a club-correction,
and sat down to wait till the case came on. In a
very little while the court rose. The hub. had put
the clock back two hours, and the case had been
dismissed long ago. The lady went out clawing
the air, but then suddenly remembering there was
no money and only a herring in the house, a sunny
smile came over her countenance, and she went
straight to her mother’s to spend a day or two,
knowing that during her absence her husband
would have to keep himself alive by chewing the
hearth-rug.
THE MELBOURNE MAID’S REQUEST.
Charlotte took his arm, and shyly
Wound It round her wasoy waist;
While her lover sipped the nectar
Of her cherry lips so chaste.
Lottie’s laugh was light and lute-like
As she lovingly looked up,
Saying, “ Thomas, darling, tell me
That you’ll take me to the ‘Cup.’
Now, you mustn’t, dear, refuse me” —
(Here, again, a long caress) —
“ For ’twill make poor Charlotte happy
If you do but answer * yes.’
Though I’ve learned to love you, lately,
Like I used to love my pup—
Oh I I’ll love you even dearer
If you’ll take me to the ‘ Cup.’ ”
When Pius IX. saw the late Dr. Vaughan,
he turned to an Englishman present and said :
“Now I understand why my saintly predecessor
(St. Gregory the Great) said of your countrymen,
‘ JVbn Anali, sed anyeli.’ ” He didn’t know till then.
He would never have found out, if he saw some of
the Sydney priests who tell Tim Murphy and Mick
Kelly from the altar that they will go to hell fox-
sending little Paddy and Nora to learn the mul-
tiplication-table from heretics. Directly His Holi-
ness clapped eyes on their feet, and let his gaze
meander towards their mouths and upper lips, he
would have profaned, or muttered Non homines,
sed You can fill this in. dear boy, in the words
of the cookery-books, “ to taste.”
Walter James, of Hobart, attempted to
shoot himself because a Miss Sarah Munn failed to
be pierced with his languishing eye. Watty reco-
vered, because ho forgot the bullet, and only
managed to burn out his mouth, and get a stomach
full of smoke. We picture his mournful feelings
before fumigating his interior—
Fare thee well, hard-hearted Sarah,
Pare thee well, obdurate Munn;
Joy from me has fled, and ne’er a
Hope is left me but my gun.
French officers, according to present regu-
lations, “ cannot marry unless the bride has a fixed
Income, and safe from seizure.” Now then, you
married men, how many of you can read that item
of intelligence without expanding your manly
bosom with a sigh? Oh, or course I know your
wife is “a dear little thing, with a happy, smiling
face, and a kind little heart for a fortune,” and all
that; but it would have been nice to have had a
paternal Government leading your young affec-
tions up to “a fixed income, and safe from seizure,"
wouldn’t it? Wtiy, cert’nly.
In Hawke’s Bay (N.Z.), a poor woman oofildl
not buy the ground in which her lately-burted
child was interred. On her recent visit to the
grave, she found it had been opened by order of
the trustees, and the coffin deposited on the grass
alongside. Blessed are the poor, for they shall not
possess the earth.
The visitor to Melbourne who is in want of
a good hearty laugh can’t do better than pay a
visit to the “Black and White Exhibition ” at the
v Jotorian Academy of Arts. It's like getting into
a bus;” the eye is arrested by a notice desiring
you to put your shilling “ in the box,” and on no
account to give it to the boy in attendance (who,
however, provides “ change, if required ”). This
boy performs the part of “ driver ” to the
Academy; and, as the average number of visitors
is ten a day, his duties are singularly light. The
renowned Whistler would turn green with envy at
the audacity of some of the exhibitors: three
dabs or black, a smudge of white, and the rest left
to the imagination, described as “ study from
nature,” and priced from two guineas upwards.
When the visitor (there’s never more than one at
a time in the Ac idemv) has exercised his risibility
by a critical examination of the sixty-eight
pictures” exhll ited—of which some half-dozen
or so are very good—he is advised to take a furtive
peep at two “ rejected works,” thrust aside in a
comer of the room. But, stay I No one with a
turn for apoplexy must look at those two “ re-
jected ones”—for the youthful “driver” isn’t
strong enough to carry out a full-grown cadaver.
No deep thinker—and Melbourne abounds in deep
thinkers Just at present—can visit the Academy
without teeling a profound compassion for that
poor boy, shut up, alone, by the hour together, in
such a Chamber of Horrors.” The strongest con-
stitution eouldn’tstand it—and the “driver” looks
anything but robust.
The Evening New
compares a certain Joca
politician to Napoleo
Both were celebrate
butchers.
The Rum’s Paris co
respondent says; —“ Sports
men are potting- at pigeon
at Deanville (sic) and Trou
vllle pending the arrival
the 1st September, whe
they will be free to blaz
away at the partridges
Where’s “ Deanville ?’ p Th
writer might look in am
tell us when he is down 1
purchase his new moles.
The Brewarrina Ex
press Is indignant. ]
seems that a Mr. Blank
offered the proprietor £■
for a column for th
quarter, with the right t
sublet and to receive t
free copy of the paper
“ Mutual benefit, Mr
Blank says “would result.
The editor, however, can’
see it, for he says:—” Whe
we desire to smash w
shad prefer to do so in
libel action or by som
other fashionable meant
and not by such a vulga
proceeding as ‘going
broke ’ through lotting
twenty-two inches of spac
to an individual who put
a terminal e to the wore
five.’’ There is a dignit]
about this which we ad
mire. It tells the world
that the time has gone
when papers will take ads
at fid. an inch, and cringe
to the poundkeeper. We
could hardly understand
Blanku even making this
gorgeous offer to the editor
of the CRD AJINOOLONG
Bellock-Bell, but, pro-
pounding It to a pub-
lication of such world-wide
fame as the Brewarrina
Express denotes an a-
mount of “ front,” which
while it falls little short
of the criminal, is pal-
pably indecent.
The Brisbane Leaser
thinks that “the Govern-
ment, by running Sunday
trains, shall begin to make
wholesale innovations ou
the sanctity of the Lord’s
Day, or the Christian Sab-
bath.” The Leader used
to be a daily paper, but in
that character it went
bung. It is Issued by a
printer named Mellefont,
whose front name is pro-
bably Nebuchadnezzar. We
don’t know Mr. M., but we
should like to, as we are
always interested about
those who write and talk
about the desecration.
These men generally, it
may be casually remarked,
dress in a raiment of
camel’s hair, live upon lo-
custs and wild honey, and
give all they have to the
poor. We would like to
bet that Mr. Mellefont
kneels down several times
a day by the double demy
and says his little prayers
for all those people who
are not so good as he is.
We have long liked to be
as saintly as this, but we
have never been able to
compass it. Under these
circumstances we should
blush to find ourselves in-
side a camel’s hair ulster,
and would recoil in confu-
sion from a feed of locusts.
And as to wild honey—well,
tame honey is about as far
as we have got at present.
For the benefit of girls “in suspense,” we
give a little morsel from “ Madge ” to help them
along;—“Mrs. Black was talking to us girls about
marriage the other night. Having g,,t her own
daughters off, she is full of wisdom on the subject.
Girls ought to exert themselves,' she said, ‘especi-
ally when Providence sends an eligible in their
way. Heaven helps girls who help themselves.’
But what is one to do ?’ asked Rhoaa, whose nose
is of that delightful shape that she can say any-
thing without being rude; ‘how did you manage
yourself, for Instance, Mrs. Black ?’ ‘Hum, never
mind me, my dear. I want to help you, and I think
girls who are getting near the shelf should reallj;
exert themselves to please and interest the men*
‘But that would be flirting, wouldn't it?’ sain
Rhoda, demurely. * Most certainly not, my dear.
It would be simply showing that you—ahem I-"
appreciated his qualities, and men like that. A
clever girl can do so without going too far.’ "
A MORAL FOR MASHERS.
