

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 1.—No. 3.—New Series.
SATURDAY, JUNE 2, 1883.
Price—fid.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JUNE 2, 1883.
Unexpected Harmony.
The controversy which Messrs. Spicer and
Bright carried on to a public platform has
been continued in the Herald and Echo.
It may be remarked that these journals
assumed a very prudential attitude in the
matter. The “suppression editor” was in
full force with respect to the public discus-
sion. Arguments which occupied two hours
in delivery were compressed into a lop-sided
paragraph four inches long. From this con-
densation it is quite impossible to learn what
the arguments used really were. But as the
Evening News gave what appears to have
been a very fair synopsis of the debate,
filling four or five columns, the attempt of
the Herald to deprive the reading public of
an opportunity of thinking over the argu-
ments of the respective teachers was made
to look very foolish. As a matter of fact,
the sole consequence of the Herald’s childish
attempt to treat the public as children, was
that the Evening News sold an unpre-
cedentedly large issue. It is apparent also
that the conductors of the Herald must
have been under obligations to the News’
report, as the comments in the morning and
evening issues from the former establish-
ment travelled over far more ground than
was mapped out in their own digest. But it
is obvious that these gentlemen have not
solely depended upon the Evening News’
report. The inspiration which belongs to
the cloth they wear, or wore, clings to them
still. Thus, in the Echo, they oblige the
public with the information that the contro-
versy has “ left no effectual or abiding in-
fluence. Neither converts nor perverts have
been made.” Secular journalists can only
bow the head in lowly adoration of their
gifted clerical brethren who are so endowed
as to be able to combine prophetic and
inspirational knowledge in a single sentence.
Mere laymen like ourselves dare not venture
to pronounce whether an effect is abiding
until sufficient time shall have elapsed to
afford evidence as to the continuance or dis-
appearance of impressions. Equal, alas, is
our impotence to affirm whether converts or
perverts have been made among the thou-
sand or two of attendants at the discussion.
We lack the inspiration which alone can
enable any man to know, within three days,
what has passed and is passing in the minds
of a couple of thousand persons. Such
flights are far above our power. The
Bulletin is edited by mere human beings,
devoid of supernatural and miraculous
powers of knowing more than can be learned
from evidence, or of conceiving more than
comes within the range of reasonable induc-
tion or deduction. Consequently, we really
don’t know how the thousand or couple of
thousand persons who listened to Messrs.
Bright and Spicer find their intellect
moved by the discussion, and we have no
certainty as to whether the future will dis-
close any abiding results. In these respects
we are keenly conscious of our inferiority to
such of our journalistic brethren as have
enjoyed—and discarded —the advantages of
ordination.
* * *
There are some inferences, however, which
we feel ourselves at liberty to draw, stating,
at the same time, the reasons which lead up
to them. It is merely our misfortune that
these inferences are directly antagonistic to
S.M. Herald inspiration certainties. Thus,
where the Herald writers assert, in their
evening issue, that the discussion has left no
effectual or abiding influence, we are hardy
enough to believe that we can fairly show
that the writers, although doubtless in
spired—that we would not be so rude
as to doubt—have unluckily been inspired
by the wrong brand of spirit. Thus the
inspiration, that no effectual or abiding in -
lluence has been wrought upon the hearers
of the disputation, appears contrary to pro-
babilities. Although the Herald people’s
anxiety to suppress the discussion has been
succeeded by an eagerness to assure people
that the discussion really amounted to
nothing and settled nothing, we take it that
to a great many people it established one or
two considerable points which had previously
been disputable. The debate afforded, for
example, one remarkable surprise. The
Rev. Mr. Spicer turned out to be somewhat
the more dashing freethinker of the two
disputants. He didn’t believe that Genesis
agreed with Science, any more than Mr.
Bright so believed. That is to say, he didn’t
believe that the Genesis of the good old ver-
ison agreed with Science. But he had a
brand-new version of his own—a sort of
“ Spicer’s patent; all others are spurious”—
which he pronounced to be in agreement
with Science all through. It is quite in ac-
cordance with the traditions of priestcraft
that there should be one version of Scripture
for the vulgar and another specially reserved
for the clergy. But although, as the Herald’s
very summary report of the report naively
states, Mr. Spicer “ guaranteed the correct-
ness” of his version, the plan of producing a
new version from time to time, to fit in with
scientific discoveries, seems designed rather
to inculcate confidence in the inspiration of
Science than in the inspiration of the Bible.
Mr. Spicer in effect went back on the ver-
sion which is the base of Christian beliefs as
held by the million, as embodied in religious
literature, and as taught to generation after
generation of children. Now, this was surely
a very remarkable surrender for any clergy-
man to make to the assaults of a Freethinker;
and if an abandonment of Genesis as
literally taught in every school till now, and
still being taught, had no effect upon the
minds of believers or unbelievers —stagger-
ing the one, and throwing the others back
on a fresh inquiry—the audience must have
been constituted of persons of very dormant
intelligence, indeed. But it is evident that
persons of dormant intelligence are not the
sort so be exercising themselves about vexed
questions; and we are therefore justified in
supposing, despite the dictum of the Echo,
that within the radius which the discussion
covers, there is likely to be a distinct and
abiding result.
* * *
Those who have regarded Mr. Spicer as
fighting their good cause will have to make
up their minds whether they agree with him,
or whether they are prepared to cling to
positions which he abandoned at the very
first assault of the adversary. And if they
agree to follow Mr. Spicer, a distinct shifting
of base all along the line will have been
effected in religious circles. This would
certainly be an “ effectual” and probably
an “abiding” result. It is noteworthy that
the Herald and Echo, while evincing a
disposition to scold Mr. Spicer for exposing
such matters to the ordeal of free discussion
at all, take the former alternative. They
have no direct fault to find with his
surrenders. Mr. Spicer abandoned the
Genesis of the old Bible. He didn’t assert
that Adam and Eve were the first man and
woman. He didn’t believe that the Flood
was universal; and he didn’t believe that
the world was created in six days. And the
Herald backs him up. We scarcely see
what was the use of discussing these matters
at all, since Mr. Spicer, Mr. Bright,
and the Herald are quite a happy
family and all of one mind. Really,
there seems to have been nothing to
dispute about, when each has spoken his
mind. All that seems now required is that
those flagitious school books which, as Mr.
Bright pointed out, teach that there was
literally a universal flood ; that the world
was literally created in six days of twenty-
four hours, morning and evening; and that
Adam and Eve were real personages, and
the first human beings, and which Mr.
Spicer vigorously denounced as erroneous
and misleading, should be replaced by books
which shall teach the Bright-Spicer-
Herald doctrine. It is a pity that this
harmony of agreement, and this clearing up
of differences which have proved to be en-
tirely imaginary and due to mutual miscon-
ception of what each other believed, should
have been attended by any acerbity. It
was hardly in good taste for the advocate of
the Freethinking doctrines respecting the
creation of the world, as opposed to the or-
thodox interpretations of our childhood, to
refer to such as hold to the literal accuracy
of the Bible as simpletons. There is a twang
of supercilious superiority in such a sentence
as this; “There are still simple souls who
believe that the universe was made in six
ordinary days.” The arrogance of modern
Freethought is here exemplified. Our fathers
held that simple belief. It is still taught in
most of the Churches; and wherever dog-
matic religion is embodied in school teach-
ings it is inculcated as inspired truth, to
deny which is blasphemy. The S.M. Herald
might signify its agreement with Free-
thought in language less calculated to
offend the consciences and susceptibili-
ties of those who still adhere to the old
orthodoxy. We may remark that the scoff
was not uttered by Mr. Bright. The quotar-
tion is from the Herald’s leading article,
and runs thus: —“ There are still simple
souls who not only believe that the world
was made in six ordinary days, but who fear
that the whole superstructure both of Juda-
ism and of Christianity would be endangered
if that belief were shaken.” Such a rude
ascription of defective intelligence to ortho-
dox believers comes with a very ill grace
from the writers, who, almost in the same
breath—at any rate, the same evening—take
Mr. Spicer to task for bad manners in refer-
ring to a teacher, held in high esteem by
many of those whom the rev. gentleman
was addressing, as a “humbug.” The lapse
of breeding and good taste brought its own
punishment at the time, and need not have
been referred to in the Echo, which also
transgressed by calling the offender “ a small
section.” Nothing is gained by calling
names ; and considering the substantial and
apparently cordial agreement brought to
light by the discussion, as existing between
Mr. Spicer, Mr. Bright, and the Herald, it
would be a pity to disturb the new alliance
by any reminders of little explosions of
temper in the heat of the debate which
resulted in so delightful a harmony.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Graveyard Ghouls.
Some day—under fair judges and a just libel law—
there will be such an exposure of the petty tricks
and swindles of some undertakers in Sydney as
will cause an alteration. Dared we publish what
we know to be facte, we could give curious tales
of the way in which certain funereal crows render
SIK W. J. CLARKE, BART.


Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above Is Rum m ,
and taken at bed-time. Um macle
0" PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6s. PER IMPERIAL QUART
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Settle Sejartneit,
MARKET STREET
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
Gd.
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at an»
other establishment in the world, 3
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per Half-Pint,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome of all Beverages.
C. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELISH WHISKY,
6s. per bottle.
VERDBILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottie.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS,
Market Street, Sydney.
Department of Mines,
„ „ Sydney, 11th May, 1883.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING
LEASES
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the
Lessees execute and take deli very of the
undermentioned Gold-mining Leases within
thirty days from this date, they will be de-
clared void.
JOSEPH P, ABBOTT.
Clarence and Richmond Mining District.
No. 49; Henry Meillett and others; Portion No.
OL 33; County of Fitzroy, parish of Bagawa; 4
acres; Application No. Nana Creek 3.
No. 50; Thomas Jones and others; Portion No,
gl 42; County of Fltzroy, parish of Bagawa; lr
29p.; Application No. Grafton 78.
No. 51; William Everingham and others; Portion
No. gl 10; County of Fitzroy, parish of Bagawa;
8 acres; Application No. Grafton 84.
No. 53; John Benson and others; Portion No. OL
6; County of Fitzroy, parish of Bagawa; 4 acres:
Application No. Nana Creek 58.
No. 54; James Denning and others; Portion No.
GL 29; County of Fitzroy, parish of Bagawa; la.
31p.; Application No. Nana Creek 43.
No. 55; John Wood; Portion No. GL38; County
of Fitzroy, parish of Bagawa; 1 acre; Application
No. Grafton 45.
Tumut and Adelong Mining District.
No. 115; Edward Cleaver and others; Portion No.
10; County of Mux-ray, parish of Bullongong; 2
acres; Application No. Queenbeyan 12.
No. 129; Ye Wah and another; Portion No. 31;:
County of Selwyn, parish of Scott; 1 acre ; Appli-
cation No. Kiandra 81-17.
Bathurst Mining District.
No. 209; Edward Chandler and others: Portion;
No. l58; County of Bathurst, parish
7a. 2r. 35p.; Application No. Carcoar 61.
No. 210; William Chandler and others; Portion.
No. 62; County of Bathurst, parish of Dunleary;
6a. lr. 18p.; Application No. Carcoar 64.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 18th May, 1883.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR MINERAL
LEASES. ,, _
NOTICE is hereby given that unless ta0
Lessees execute and take delivery of
the undermentioned Mineral Leases within
thirty days from this date, they will be de-
clared void.
JOSEPH P. ABBOTT.
No. 1498; A. Donnelly; Portion No. 89; County
of Gough, parish of Arvid; 20 acres; Application
No. Vegetable Creek 597. __
No. 1499; Ah Ching and another; Portion No. 8u,
County of Gough, parish of Tent Hill; 20 acres.
Application No. Vegetable Creek 598. , e
No. 1501; W. Hogan; Portion No. 88; County o 1
Gough, parish of Arvid; 20 acres; Application no.
Vegetable Creek 581. . xT
No. 1508; Tommy Lee and another; Portion No,
2; County of Gough, parish of Boyd; 20 acres.
Application No. Glen Innes 54. __ ir .
No. 1512; A. Cadell and another; Portion No. u;
County of Gough, parish of Flagstone; 20 acres.
Application No. Vegetable Creek 569. ,
No. 1518; S. W. Moore; Portion No. 96; County of
Gough, parish of Mitchell; 20 acres; Application
No. Glen Innes 81-20.
No. 1554; G. Prager and another; Portion No. i*>
County ot Clive, parish of Bates; 20 acres; ApP 11 '
cation No. Vegetable Creek 605. „
No. 1555; A. B. Butler; Portion No. 112; County
of Gough, parish of Wellington Vale; 20 acres,
Application No. Vegetable Creek 609. r -.
No. 1556; J. Burke and others; Portion No.
County of Gough, parish of Wellington Vale; w
acres; Application No. Vegetable Creek 614.
No. 1557; A. Sorti and others; Portion No.
County of Gough, parish of> Wellington Vale; <•
acres; Application No. Vegetable Creek 621. ....
No. 1558; A. Sorti and others; Portion No. 1°*;
County of Gough, parish of Wellington Vale;
acres; Application No. Vegetable Creek 622. ...
No. 1568; J. Parker and others; Portion No.
County of Hardinge, parish of Mayo; 20 acie»r
Application No. Tingha 652.
1
The “Social evening” of the Sydney
Liedertafel, on Tuesday night, proved as enjoyable
as the entertainments by that society have invari-
ably been. On these “gentlemen’s nights” the
society takes off its frills and does things in the
hail-fellow style—or, perhaps, it would be more
descriptive to term it the ale-fellow style, as beer
flows to accompany the music. The part-singing
of the Liedertafel has now attained such a unifor-
mity of excellence under Mr. Ashcroft Edwards’
training that there is little in this respect
to observe about one concert which has not
previously been said about a proceeding one.
There was, however, a more than ordinary in-
fusion of instrumental work in the programme.
Mr. E. M'Quade, who is steadily consolidating his
position as an executant of the first rank, played
Thalberg’s fantasia of “ Les Huguenotswith
grand vigour and Insight. A clarionet solo by
Mr. George Vassilwas, in every sense, worthy of
being associated with the Lledertafel’s reputation;
and Mr. Halleweli, supported by the society with
a humming accompaniment most delicately ren-
dered, delivered the solo passages so finely as to
elicit a fervent encore. One of the features
of the evening was a vocal setting by Mr.
J. Churchill Fisher, of the popular and melodious
Gloire de Dijon Waltzes, most tastefully adapted
and charmingly sung by the Liedertafel. A quin-
tette of Beethoven’s for pianoforte, oboe,
clarionette, horn, and bassoon, was a novelty to
Sydney audiences, and was warmly applauded.
Mr. M’Quade took the pianoforte, and the oboe
part was performed by the youngest performing
member of the Liedertafel, a boy of 11, with
accuracy of time and phrasing, but a comparative
weakness of tone which time will doubtless
remedy. The horn player, Herr Kuhr, played a
solo with sucesss, and the accompaniments
throughout were executed by Mr. Chas. Huener-
bein, who in that department has certainly no
equal in Sydney. Mr. Brewer’s vocal solo was
correctly given, but with a slight tendency to
hardness. As these gentlemen’s evenings serve to
a certain extent as formal rehearsals for the per-
formances to which ladies are invited, the fair may
with confidence look forward to ajdelightful time
at the next concert of the society.
the closing scone even more painful than it natur-
ally is by their heartless extortions in the hour of
weakness and pain. Recently, an infant died; the
money, which it was specially agreed should cover
aU expenses, was paid when the coffin was de-
livered, yet next day a paltry demand for the price
of the assistant’s ticket to the cemetery was made.
That this excess was paid is a small matter; but
more Important the fact that, on arrival at the
graveyard, no assistant appeared, and the only
mourner had to carry the tiny coffin on his shoul-
der and look for the spot in God’s Acre where he
might deposit it. Then ho had to listen to an
irritable tale from an official about the amount the
undertaker already owed for ground: while oven
a minister of religion expressed surprise that he
should bo confiding enough “ to pay these people
before their work is done; for they arc always
ready to take advantage of you.” It is known
that few in their grief are willing to parade their
affairs to the public in a court of law; hence the
harpies invariably escape. The minister’s remark is
clear evidence such dpinga are neither unfrequent
nor unknown. Of course, the oity-eontains under-
takers who would nofHlo those acts; but there are
men daily doing them—men who should be exposed
without more mercy to themselves than they show
to others—men who should be swept from our
midst like the lepers they are: these men are
known, yet none dare raise a voice! If we did so,
any scoundrel, every scoundrel of an undertaker
In the city, could institute an action against us for
libel, without depositing a penny, or incurring any
responsibility, to meet the costs. Although he
might be a “man of straw,” we must defend, or
Judgment would go by default- If we did defend,
we might lose the action on the simple ground,
already clearly laid down, that a newspaper has no
public duty to perform in exposing abuses. If we
failed to pay, we’d have to go to gaol; and, suppos-
ing wo won, we should have no security whatever
that the penniless plaintiff, by leaving the colony,
going through the court, or by any one of a score of
other ways evading payment, would not leave us to
defray the heavy expenses of defending an action
which, according to good law, equity, or common
sense, ho should never have been allowed to even
bring Into Court. But this is law in New South
Wales, and, under its shelter, the graveyard ghouls
grow fat.
A Simple Plan.
A newly arrived immigrant offers a sug-
gestion. It seems to him that people are only
brought out here to tread upon each other’s heels
In town, and cut down wages to half rates. Well,
It hasn’t come to that yet. There Is no place in
the world where even unskilled labour is in
greater demand, or gets better pay than in Sydney
at this moment. But our “new chum” is correct
in his principle. Immigration without facilities for
settlement on the laud would result just as he
Indicates. The towns would bo crowded, and
nrtizans and labourers would compete for employ-
ment till wages fell to rates that would scarcely
Suffice to keep body and soul together. Land
reform is the necessary preliminary to wholesale
Immigration. And wholesale immigration is the
necessary corollary to genuine land reform. This
colony will never amount to much until we have
a thousand immigrants arriving every week
find pushing out to settle down as pro-
ducers. If we could get half of them
fairly on the soil, there would be plenty
of employment in the towns for everyone at
present resident, ana for the extra flve-and
twenty thousand yearly besides. The longest
resident would, by reason of ins larger experience
and knowledge of local requirements, have the
best chance. Many who are working for masters
now would then by the creation of additional trade
and demand bo enabled to become themselves
employers of labour. The stimulus to production
line to increased settlement would create addi-
tional demand for all sorts of town goods. The
wharves would be in a constant bustle; every
branch of import business and local enterprise
would be vivified; and, in short, the colony would
be growing into a nation. Our “ now chum ” cor-
respondent propounds a scheme of his own for
simplifying and hastening the good time. The
G overnment, according to his project, is to place
the settler upon the land, and to advance him
funds to get a team, and to provide sustenance for
the first twelve months. We quite appreciate
the simplicity of this plan. But we also appreciate
the unfortunate weakness of human nature. If
the colony could persuade a few hundred angels to
migrate hither, it could afford to start them com-
fortably in that way. But experience has shewn
that the proportion of angels among immigrants
Is (to say the least) limited. There are too many
men and women among them for the “new chum”
project to be quite apposite. It would be difficult
to prevent some of them from drinking their team
of bullocks and then converting their provisions
into a liquid form. Still, there’s agleam of possible
tilings in the idea—which, by the way, is very far
from new. If a man started by paying cash for his
land, it might come within the functions of Govern-
ment to give him credit to the value of his purchase
(say) in Treasury bills, the land being the security.
But the Banks have too strong a grip on politicians
to permit such a plan to bo inaugurated. If it
were brought into practice, there would bo an end
to dividends of 15 to 30 per cent, per annum, wrung
by wealth from labour and enterprise.
Land and Breeches.
In the March number of the Nineteenth Cen-
titry, Lord Dunraven contends that the Radical
doctrine that the number of acres which any
person may hold should be limited, is absurd. We
may mention, cn passant, that Lord Dunraven
starts behind the times. Radical conceptions go
deeper than the position he seeks to controvert.
It is now maintained by the advanced school of
political economists, not that private property in
land should bo limited, but that it should be
abolished. The reasoning which supports the one
position, however, equally supports the other, and
will be clearly enough indicated. Lord Dunraven
puts his objections in an interrogatory form.
Why, he asks, should not commodities other than
land bo limited ? Why should a man who has two
pairs of trousers not be asked, with equal justice,
to give up one of them? Now, we are often told
that England is a Christian country, and its old
nobility among the strongest buttresses of its re-
ligion. As a matter of fact, if one Christian man
has two pairs of trousers, and another has no
trousers, the former would undoubtedly be under
a religious obligation to give up one pair to the
latter. In reality, this surrender is occasionally
made. Take the case of a shipwrecked sailor, for
instance, cast naked ashore. The first act of any-
one who drags him out of the surf is to send for
“ my other pair of trousers.” To clothe the naked
is a sacred duty, repeatedly inculcated by
Scripture. We may leave that line of ar-
gument, however, without abandoning any
point of vantage. Lord Dunraven appears to
have written upon a subject without having
studied It, or he would surely have been
aware that an essential difference between
property in land and chattel property has been
admitted and recognised for thousands of years.
And had his Lordship posted himself in the recent
literature dealing with property in land, he would
have known that the distinction has of late been
very strongly emphasized. Trousers are products
of human industry. If a man choose to devote his
labours to the production and manufacture of
trousers, ho may own thousands of pairs and yet
nobody need go trouserless. There is no practical
limit to the multiplication of trousers. But a man
cannot manufacture land. It is beyond human
industry to produce additional worlds. There is
only one world for all mankind; and unless it be
fairly shared, free men cannot live on it. It is
absurd to imagine that the majority of the human
race will be content to go on for ever moving on
the face of the globe on suffrage of the minority.
Put it this way: That the whole world be divided
into estates, and that all landed proprietors simulta-
neously give notice that trespassers will be prosecu-
ted. As the ownership of the soil of, for instance,
Great Britain is now adjusted, about 30,000,000
people would have to plunge into the sea if they
were compelled to comply with the laws. And, if
the same system extended over the globe, nineteen-
twentieths of mankind would have to move out
of the world—if they could. In short, land is
God’s gift to mankind in general; monopoly of
land is flying in the face of the Almighty. This is
sentiment. But, to come down to the region of
hard fact. Land is an article of primary necessity.
That is to say, man can’t live without land to live
on. Now, all political economists have agreed
that, wherever there is a monopoly of an article
of primary necessity owing to limitation of its
amount, the State may with propriety regulate
distribution. This is a very obvious and evidently
fair proposition. Yet the moment a suggestion is
mooted about “ bursting up ” big estates, a howl
is raised about the rights of property, and the
irreligious upsetting tendencies of the ago. Wo
have tried to point out that the religious argu-
meat is distinctly against the monopolist of any-
thing.
Our Drunken Benefactors.
Drunkards and Smokers—the agreeable conbi-
natiou is not ours—have met with advocacy more
curious than pleasing, in New Zealand. We had
thought it was only a parson, and a malignant
speciman of the genius at that, who ever coupled
smokers with drunkards. But our brethren of the
Press are hard at it inMaorlland. One ingenious
writer sets himself the task of discovering the use
of smokers and drunkards in the world, and starts
off in somewhat the same bewilderment as General
Sir Charles Napier, who couldn’t understand why
the good Lord made Whigs and bugs. Sir Charles
was a rank old Tory, and the arrant Radical of
to-day emulates his wonderment by puzzling
over the problem as to how Providence permits
the existence of Conservatives and big-bugs. The
matter in hand, however, is the use of drunkards
and smokers; and just as a Mr. Wilson announced
in Macmillan’s Magazine that national drunken-
ness is the secret of England’s greatness, so several
writers in New Zealand point out that in the Great
Britain of the South the drunkards and smokers
tax themselves to the tune of £750,000 per annum,
which more than pays for the maintenance of the
gaols and lunatic asylums. This is very encourag-
ing. Drunkenness is not among our weaknesses,
but we admit that we “ touch the accursed thing”
in the form of tobacco, considerably. To take a
glass too much, or smoke to excess, is now to be
regarded as an act of unselfish good citizenship,
and the heaviest smoker shares with the habitual
drunkard the distinction of serving his country
well without consideration of expense.
Eheu! Smith.
If it were not that the Echo never jokes, and is
afflicted with a profound melancholy which in-
fects its readers also when it even tries to be
sprightly, one would have imagined that an effu-
sion, in the form of a letter recently published in
its columns, had been inserted as a humorous in-
spiration of the most rib-tickling sort. Mr. Eheu
Smith— alas! poor Smith— “heard with pleasure”
Mr. Spicer’s “ complete refutation ” of Mr.
Bright at the Protestant Hall. And the unstable
Smith, with pleasure fresh on his pen, suddenly
forgets how pleased he is, and yells with pain at
the thought that “ blatant infidelity may raise its
hydra head with unblushing effr®ntery, and its
monstrous utterances be the means, through the
press, of corrupting the minds and unsettling the
faith of the youth of the colony.” Now, what’s
the matter with you, Smith ? In one breath, you
declare that the Rev. Mr. Spicer completely re-
futed Mr. Bright’s specious arguments, and that
his replies to the latter were unanswerable, and
completely uphold by the mighty authorities
quoted by Mr. Spicer. And, in the next, you yowl
with terror, lest the faith of the youth of the
colony be prejudiced. Prejudiced by what? By a
complete and unanswerable refutation of infidelity
and atheism ? Mr. Smith, you are some sort of a
fool. Either you don’t believe that Mr. Spicer
was so triumphant as you pretend, or else you hold
the opinion that a complete refutation of infidelity
is likely to unsettle faith. Now, which horn do
you choose to straddle ? Eheu! Smith.
Wanted A Hotel.
The case of the lady who one night last week was
unable to obtain admittance to any hotel in Sydney,
and was obliged to seek the Police Station for
advice and shelter, is worth noting. There is no-
thing exceptional about it. It is a fact that only
a few of the many houses which have “Hotel”
painted up, study to accommodate travellers at all.
They find t pays better to reserve their bed-rooms
for good-drinking men, regular or casual, than to
keep house for the ordinary traveller. A good
hearty drinker is a heavy sleeper. Insects do not
disturb his repose. He is not fastidious about
clean shoots, and other niceties. And a good
drinker is ordinarily a poor eater. Fill one’s
bed-rooms with solid drinkers, and it pays all
round. Expenses in cooks and chambermaids
are kept down to a minimum. The bar-business
flourishes, since the more your customer drinks
over night the more he requires in the morning.
This applies only to one class of houses, of course;
and perhaps it is well for the wayfarer that he
can’t get accommodation when ho presents him-
self at their doors. But it is equally true that it is
the most difficult thing imaginable for a “casual,”
or what hotel-keepers call a “transient,” to got a
bed in even the best hotels in town. A resident of
the suburbs who is delayed by business, or chances
to miss the last train, stands a very poor show.
The hotel-keepers don’t want him. He has no
luggage, or only a modest handbag; he proposes
to stay only a night. The night-porter is barely
civil. The rooms arc all occupied. The benighted
one had best try So-and-so’s, in the next street.
He is bandied from hotel to hotel; and it at
last, by persistency, tip, or by Insisting on
his identity with a well-known name, he
manages to pass the Cerberus, he is conducted to
some wretched closet of an apartment, obviously
the worst room in the house, with furnishings
inferior to what ho provides tor his own groom or
servant girl, and a prospect of the back-yard,
fluttering with the wash of dish-cloths, or opening
with a window upon a dark passage where boots
are cleaned. Sydney is worse provided with hotels
worthy the name than any other city of its size in
the civilized world, and the man or company who
shall give it a hostelry something on a level with
the hotels now common in every commercial city
of Europe and America will be a public benefactor
—and will make a big pile.
Political Vicissitudes.
From the splendours of untrammelled authority,
revelling in the enjoyment of a diffusive patronage
of art, to the rigours of a private station, is a heavy
fall. Aesthetic bedsteads in a public building,
statuary purchased at public expense, and railway
“palace cars” to be christened “Lady Smith,”
“Lady Jones,” and “ Lady Robinson,” in honour
of one's self and one’s friends, excite an indisposi-
tion to the half-tester of common life, the China-
shepherdess of the domestic mantelpiece, and the
shilling per quarter-hour hansom of the mere
vulgar—and of R. B. Smith. Our artist has given
a little allegorical and typical sketch, which con-
veys the moral and adorns the tale.
The Echo says that anyone who affirms that Red-
mond did not enjoy as much fair play and freedom
of speech as anyone is “an unscrupulous liar.”
The Herald people invariably put forward their
little imp, the Echo, to say any risque thing they
funk on themselves. Here’s the Echo’s par“In an
address presented to Mr. J. E. Redmond at Coota-
mundra it is stated, * The same amount of British
fair play and freedom of speech has not been
accorded to you as has been invariably to others in
this free land.’ As Mr. Redmond has never been
in any way interrupted in his addresses, the above
is the most mendacious statement yet made by his
unscrupulous admirers.” Thus, according to the
Echo, interruption is the only way in which free-
dom of speech can be curtailed and fair play with-
held. To refuse a man the ordinary halls, and thus
limit accommodation for his audiences, even when
it didn’t drive him into the open air, is no limita-
tion of freedom of speech; and a man who is
refused a proper hall to speak in has received just
the same amount of fair play as the man who gets
the use of a hall for the asking! We agree with
the Echo that mendacious statements have been
made by unscrupulous writers about this matter.
Sir W. J. Clarke, Bart.
The portrait in our first page represents the
most popular moneyed man in Victoria.
Sir W. J. Clarke had the fortune to be born
the son of a man who combined a talent for
finance with a craze for accumulation. In
fact, the elder Clarke was clever and mean.
The younger Clarke is not so clever, but he
is liberal. The great wealth, which in his
father’s hands was merely used as an engine
for manufacturing more, in the hands of
the son fructifies in many generous dona-
tions and social entertainments. Clarke
senior despised the shadow, and clung to
the substance. His son, who has a brother
almost as rich as himself, perceived that
social shadows are very agreeable if properly
availed of, bought a baronetcy by sundry
timely and public liberalities. He is a good
fellow enough, and perfectly harmless.


At Parramatta, on the Queen’s Birthday, a
game of (bowls was played by the Rose Hill Club
against King’s School team; the former won by
five points. On Saturday the City Club played the
Parramatta team; the latter won by 18 points.
The public and the medical profession of
Australia are unanimously of opinion that
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the purest and best stimu-
lant, tonic, and diuretic at present before the
world.*
We have struck a few devoted wives lately.
The one, for instance, who, having been married
to the gentleman who recently got eight years
for what was about equal to murder, vowed
to “stick to him” until he got out, There is a
diluted heroism in this. But that is all. While we
are willing to admit that the gentleman is entitled to
be set down, by reason of his chivalrous exploit, a
man of mark, yet we cannot but consider that his
wife, in her eloquently-expressed determina-
tion, has, revealed herself as possessing a mind, the
primitiveness of which borders upon rusticity.
Whether she will “stick to him” for the eight
years, or whatever it is, is no affair of ours; but,
looking at the affair from a standpoint of notoriety,
we—while we especially admire everything con-
nected with virtue (that doesn’t interfere with
business)—are of the opinion that the lady is
comparatively throwing her devotion away. Devo-
tion is a thing for which we have a respect which
closely treads on the poetic feet of admiration.
This, in a whisper. There have been—and wo
chuckle in the thought that there are—lovely
women, and of a considerable height, too, that
admire us to frenzy. This is less because of the
melting green of our eyes, of the bumps upon our
alabaster brows, than because we are notorious in
the realms of genius and of humour. [We blush
the tint of our pretty pink cover.—En. B.1 We
bear, therefore, the advances of the Darling Point
duchesses with a dignified composure. They
may be weak, but we are strong. They may
be beautiful, but we are brilliant. But, while
brilliancy in journalism enables one to “catch
on” to some extent to the female heart,
a good straightforward murderer would knock
any author out of time. We happened to be pre-
sent in N.Y., and were staying at the Grand Central
in the afternoon that Edward S. Stokes shot James
Fiske through the heart on the ladies’ staircase.
Prior to this interesting event, Stokes had been,
merely known as the proprietor of a New Jersey
oil-mill, and took a back seat amongst the New
York mashers. But, no sooner-had he shot Fiske
than he was inundated with hillcts-dovx and
smothered in flowers. He became, at once (and
for ever) a hero; and, we must admit, a very fine-
looking hero, too. We saw him at the City Court-
house on the first day of his trial. He sported the
largest amount of boiled shirt-front we have ever
seen since the representive of an evening eontem-
Eorary borrowed the suit of one of C. R.
mith’s waiters to attend the opera in. He had a
brooch of diamonds in his breast; a riviere brace-
let of brilliants worn ostentatiously on his wrist,
and a regalia of gems on his fingers. It was
thought, and thought'properly, that he had dis-
tinguished himself. Well, Stokes got only four
years, and our criminal eight. Yet the distinction
between the two will be evident. Therefore,
while feeling a touch of simple sympathy for the
lady in her mistaken idea of heroism, wo can-
not but wish that in the interest of a notoriety-
loving community she had frozen on to something
more than a horse-murdering hero. The line of
even domestic heroism must be drawn somewhere.
Hang it I
THE FALL OF FOLEY.
We have just escaped. . . • “ Who won
it?” “Miller; hut don’t talk; give us some hock
and soda, ‘ cold as fish-ponds frozen.’ ” Escaped
from what ? From a murderous mingling of
drunken demons fighting on the stage of the
Academy of Music; from a storm of curses, and a
hurricane of howls. Dusty, greasy, hot, and
generally degraded—we fled from the hall at 6 p.m.
on Monday night to the bower of Miss Murphy, at
the “ Metrop.,” for liquid refreshment. Fled! We
should smile. It took a double cordon of police to
enable us to get out of the horrible place, all echo-
ing with yells, and reeking with every foetid blast
that is born of the foul—every horrible odour that
steams from the rough and the squalid,
• • •
We have seen many curious things in our
t i me _ a fierce national battle, Lewis Scott, a needle
manufactory, a fight at sea, JoeEckford, and the
Peak of Tenerilte; but the “glove contest between
Foley and Miller” was one of the drollest spectacles
we ever witnessed. Urging our wild career at
about two o’clock through a crowd of the popu-
a ce, all of whom seemed to be indelibly stamped
with a Darlinghurst Hall-mark, we worried our way
down the dark and evil-smelling passage which
leads to the stage-door of that academy, which
is ruled by Hegarty. When young Dutchy
had it, he gave us a lot of pretty girls
in red stockings, who sang “Father’s fallen
in the gutter,” “Sister Kitty’s lost her chap,”
and other pathetic ballads, very badly. How
well do we remember this show! How well
do wc recollect Grace Hcnriqucs taking in the
public with a fair wig, and another lady grossly
deceiving it with understandings which would
have been robust for a giant! However, that
show embodied (bad as it was, and it was very bad)
art in a certain sense, and certainly art in the sense
of deception. But though a “fighting man” (he
never would fight, by the way), “ Dutchy” dese-
crated not the marble halls of the Victorieral, over
which he ruled, by giving a pugilistic spectacle.
No person during his regime ever “tapped the
claret” of a fellow man; no “peeper” was closed,
no “smack was landed on the smeller,” or
“straight ’un” ever “ planted on the kisser” during
the rule of non-Fighting Frederick. All that has
now been changed. There are no red stockings, no
Grace Henriques (which we deplore!), no decep-
tive calvesv-nothing, in short, aesthetic. The
classic establishment seems to be delivered up to
gift-shows and glove-contests. With the former,
we have little to do; with the latter, this week, a
good deal. Gift-shows, if not elevating in their
character, are comparatively moral. The only
harm that can emanate from them accrues to the
proprietor. Wo know a man (of Madagascar) who,
not long ago, won an allotment of land. He went
out to see it one day, and it cost him £3 5s. to get
there. On his arrival, he commenced to survey
and examine his property, with all the pride of a
landed proprietor When he got back to
Sydney he weighed two tons. It was a black clay
soil. Next day he called round to congratulate the
showman on his splendid enterprise. And he took
a bit of the fence with him. But, while gift-shows
attract “ministers of all denominations” to their
shrines, there is nothing at all moral about a glove
contest. No minister should over attend one of
those entertainments, because, while there is little
social and nothing otherwise to be obtained by it,
there is a decided off-chance of a “ domino on the
conk,” ora “smackunder the chops,” in the dis-
tant perspective. Mr. Hegarty, however, let his
hall to Miller and Foley for their spar; and he may,
should he choose to, congratulate himself in the
fact that never was an exhibition with surround-
ings more calculated to strike a desire for murder
Into the human heart ever given in Sydney. We
bar, of course, those evenings at the Temperance
Hall when there are “recitations” by Good
Templars, and “musical selections by lady ama-
teurs.”
* ■ •
The stage-door of the Academy of Music
on that afternoon was guarded by the most pic-
turesque assortment of low blackguards we have
seen since we last attended choir-practice at the
little church near our lane in Sussex-street. We
recognised them all; tor it is our business to know
these persons, just as much as it is our business to
know members of Parliament and other unplea-
sant people. One of the men near the door was not
only dirty, but he was argumentative, bellicose,
and alcoholic. He looked like a fiend, and smelt
like a rum-barrel. But he was rather fond of us.
He said: “Take my bloomin’ griffin and plant
yourself in the front of the bloomin’ drum. Them
Press is there like a swarm o’ bees; go in and look
at ’em.” We went in, and one glance sufficed to
decide us. J umbled together with a choice assort-
ment of pugilistic potmen and fierce hangers-on
to the skirts of aquatic heroes, were the members
of the Press. There were there amongst others
the aesthetic and popular Price, of the Herald,
known to his professional brethren as “The Prince
of Wales,” Perrier, the Pride of Bourke, and Sir
Kowley de Pickering, who is the “Nemo” of the
Mail, and a sporting writer who is alike renowned
for the accuracy of his tips and for the number of
his commas. Mr. Pickering has, like other great
men, a story hanging to him. Kowley possesses,
besides other beauties, which we will not make
him blush by describing, curly locks of an auri-
comushue. Well, one day he was at a coursing-
match, and a gentleman came up, and holding out
his pipe, said smilingly: “ You can give me a light,
I know.” “I haven’t a match about me,” said
Kowley. “ Never mind,” rejoined the gentle-
man, “bend down.” Deciding to go in front,
we went there. Wo were piloted by the
gifted Hughes, and accompanied by Zulu
Thompson. “ Doc.,” by the way, is the most won-
drous identity we “ ever struck.” [We caught this
off the purser of the City of New York.] We have
known him in different parts as a Temperance
lecturer, the “ Medical Wonder,” “Doctor Steel,”
a nigger minstrel interlocutor, a canvasser for
lightning rods, and—this at Newcastle—a member
of the Salvation Army I “ Doc.” is now either a
diamond merchant or a re-seater of pane chairs.
We forget which.
Jje >|c
We are glad we went in front of the house,
for several reasons. First, because we had an
opportunity of seeing our old friend Charley Lewis,
who was “on the door;” and, second, because we
were, on entering, at once in the centre of all our
friends. Such a bunch. There was (it ought to be
were” we suppose) Frank Hewitt (the once
famous English runner, whose half-mile is the
fastest on record), in a speckled grey coat; Charley
M’Phillamy, Fred Gannon, Ted Windsor, Charley
Roberts, C.M.G., Paddy Bypnes, Abe Myers
(who had come all the why from Tumut),
E. Underwood (the Quirindi dead shot), Mr.
Baldwin, J.P.; Old Gill (bless him!), M.P. for
Tamworth; Clarke, the wool and tallow prince;
Harry the Haver’’(just out); Mr. Combes, C.M.G.,
art-connoisseur, &c.; and, as the “ Prints of Wails
always poetically remarks, when he writes those
lovely banquet epics in the Herald, “ and
others.” Government House was strongly re-
presented, but kept in the background. Upon
the stage—and here we once more quote
our favourite author—was “a galaxy of pro-
minent citizens.” Amongst these, and beaming
with merry smiles upon John Thompson and
shedding his eloquence upon the mingled throng
of sporting patrons and blackguard roughs, was
Mr. Dan O’Connor, accompanied by the inevitable
Pat, who is said (by Dan’s enemies, of course) to
be to his brother what Mrs. Bagnet was to Mr.
Bagnet. When George, in “Bleak House,” asked
Mr. Bagnet’s advice upon any knotty point, lie
was wont to turn to the lady, who was always
“ washing greens,” and say, “ Give him my
opinion.” “The bearings of this quotation, dear
Captain Cuttle, lie in the application on it.” Well,
here are, Dan, a few rough stanzas which Pat can
sing to you in your hours of ease, playing the ac-
companiment on a gridiron:—
Oh, honest Dan! to see thee there,
Upon that chaste and classic stage,
Forms in Itself a bright and fair—
A gleaming line—in hist’ry’s page I
All honour to thee, Dan, for when
Young Redmond spoke of his Isle green
Upon that stage, most glib of men,
Thou wert in terror to be seen!
Quite right! thy patronage of sport
Joy will create in every clime!
Thou wert not (as it will be thought)
A trembling “skulker,” Dan, this time.
No! on the stage great Dan, as big
As life—or once more shall we try
And say big as a fatted pig ? —
You sat, to see the “ claret fly.”
No “skulker” now—by thunder! no,
O brave and patriotic man 1
There’s but one patriot here below—
A hero I —and his name is Dan!
* * *
We—ours being a popular paper (this is
copied from the hoardings)—“chipped in” with a
lot of very high-toned people. The coterie was
formed of “Zulu.” Harry Levien, Mr. Combes,
C.M.G. (he’s a “bruiser”), and Mr. Tramway
Roberts. This last gentleman is, we may remark,
a man of infinite merriment, and, we may add, of
infinite whisker. He was polite to us; but we
were rather disappointed to And that he was not
servile. We like servility from men in humble
positions. Such an audience! A thousand pounds
in the house. Thank heaven, we are an Intelligent
community. Patti could never have drawn this.
• • •
Now for the trouble. After the ring had
been fixed up —a proceeding taking so long that
the audience seethed to an extent which caused
the air to grow thick with curses—a feeble,painfully
made-up old gentleman, in a brown suit, and who
had sacrificed, on the altar of pugilism, a pair of
catskin gloves and somebody’s umbrella, began to
potter about the ring, and subsequently came to
the front and said: “You will have doubtless have
read in the Melbourne Sportsman that ,”
when he was whistled away by a whirlwind of
boohoos. “Who let you loose?” “Lie down!”
“ What mummy’s this ? “ Grandfather, go home to
grandmother,” were only a tew of the cries that
greeted him. This individual considers himself, so
we leai’n, a kind of colonial “ Pendragon.” We don’t
know about the “pen,” but ho looks rather like an
amiable dragon. This ancient monument of the
grand old Battle of Waterloo period having sub-
sided, Mr. Larry Foley was officially brought out
by his second, Mr. Jack Thompson, who had
invested In a red shirt, a pair of white flannel pants
and a blue belt. Miller hadn’t showed up at this
time, and Larry (who was naked save a kind of
silken fig-leaf) came down and made a speech. He
said something like this: —
“ Genelmen, we’re goin’ to ’avc a fight. The
other party comes from t’other colony, so give
’im a chance. What I say is let the best man win.
D’ye see?”
We have It on excellent authority that this bril-
liant oratorical flight had been, prior to the battle,
composed by Jack Thompson assisted by his
brother—the intrepid Barney. When Miller came
out, a minute later, Mr. Larry Foley made another
oration. He said approximately:
“ Now, chaps, we’re a goin’ to begin. What we
want, and what we’re a goin’ to ’ave, is fair play.
D’you know. It’s a friendly battle, so give the
cove a chance.”
Who inspired this dramatic recital, we have no
idea; but we have a suspicion that Dave Ingram
(now a bookmaker, but formerly a well-known
and accomplished pugilist), who was next to
Barney, had a hand—or, as the address is poetic,
we had better say a foot—in it. The effect of it on
us was to cause us to put a hand in our pockets to
feel for a half-sovereign (we didn’t find one) as a
small contribution towards the expenses of Miller’s
funeral. Foley had shaved off those “ side-levers ’ ’
which so fascinated Rosalind when Laurence
enacted “Chawles the Wrestler” at the Queen’s;
but Miller still sported that moustache for a hair
of which half Collins-street used to wrestle. The
attitude of the two men and of their bearers was
strikingly contrasted. Foley is physically a perfect
man, built all the way down like a gum-tree-
round as the bole of a cedar. Miller’s legs are not
bad, though their fair proportions are dwarfed by
the abnormal and almost ridiculous development
of his arms, chest, and shoulders. But while
Foley and his mob were capering with confidence
and full of “flashness,” Miller (about whom not a
soul gathered, save his second Christie and his
“bottle-holder”) never even so much as looked
towards the audience. He sat down in his dark
corner on the O.P. side, on a wretched kitchen
chair, with an appearance of good nature and con-
tent which to his backers was pleasantly suggestive.
Christie, by the way, has turned grey since we last
saw him. He simply came out in the costume of an
ordinary gentleman with his coat off. The quiet
and effective manner in which he looked after his
man won even the respect of the seething crowd
of “ whisperers” behind—any of whom would
enter cheerfully into a contract to bite a bishop’s
ear off for sixpence. Not much good nature or
tolerance could, of course, have been expected
from these dreadful roughs; and therefore all the
good people who were not there (and nobody who
was there could have been good—except Dan) will
not be surprised to learn that all through the fight
they distinguished themselves by greeting the
stranger with every foul anathema, every
cowardly interjection, that a low nature could
occasion, or a mean mind suggest. By the re-
spectable part of the spectators the men were
most impartially applauded; while by the
square-jawed unwashed Larry was frequently
invited to “kill him,” to “finish the ——,
“ and ”; but, be it to his credit recorded, Mr.
Foley was too polite, Mr. Miller being a visitor to
our beautiful harbour, to do anything of the kind.
[There is a delicate vein of irony here if you will
only see it. You should have seen us tapping our
nose while we wrote the passage.! Christie is a cele-
brity, it you like. Ho was once the smartest of the
Victorian detectives, and the chaperon of H.B.H.
the Duke of Edinburgh, who presented him with a
large quantity of cameo-jewellery, with which he
still decorates his neat, clean-cut, greyhound-like
form. He was the champion sculler of the Southern
colony; and subsequently joined the “ P.R.” This
was not a very fortunate change of profession, tor
in a fight with Jack Thompson, into which he was
badgered by the bookmakers, poor Christie came
in tor a terrible gruelling. He is,_ however, a
splendid boxer, and, what is better still, a splendid
fellow. That’s what his friends say. Wo don’t
know him. The only “ splendid fellow ” wo know
is the man who allows us to matutinally suspend a
pint.
, * ♦ ♦
It’s no good our telling you that the ring
was a square one, that it was formed by three lines
of ropes being passed through stakes; and that the
rounds, according to the Marquis of Queensbery’s
rules, lasted each three minutes, with one minute’s
spell. It’s no good our saying this, for we can’t
say it picturesquely. But so it was. Now you can
forgive us while we take something. The men
stepped into the ring amidst a dead suence, which
was only broken by a gentleman downstairs
cursing another gentleman who had, it seemed,
jumped on his hat. Foley, who was a per-
fect picture, danced about like a cork, but
Miller was so quiet that there was an impression
amongst the outsiders that he was “ funking.” A
grander sight than the muscular development of
this man could not be imagined. It is not too
much to say that no sculptor, however gifted,
could exaggerate the grandeur of his form—could
carve in stone, or mould in clay, a more perfect
model of a perfect Hercules. It was thought, and
openly stated, Indeed, that Foley would by superior
science and activity knock Miller out ot time in a
few minutes. Foley certainly danced round and
sparred very cleverly for full twenty rounds; but
it was evident after the first half hour that he
would have to pay the legendary penalty for
dancing—the piper. Miller, as a matter of fact,
has far more science than Foley. And he has a
heart just as big. Nothing finer than the hitting
with his left was ever seen in any ring. As quick
as lightning and as straight as a dart, he got Larry
time after time, round after round, until the effect
became sickening. Miller from the first under-
rated his own powers. Had he forced the fight-
ing, and been content to “take” while giving his
very best and hardest, Foley must, we think,
despite his wonderful pluck, have been beaten in
twenty minutes.
• • •
The fight began at about three; but it was
not until about half-past four that there was any-
thing worth writing about in this paper. About that
time Larry began to look very crooked, and Miller’s
gloves were saturated with blood, while, ominous
circumstance I Foley’s were as white as the faces of
his supporters. The business was very wearisome
until this to see, and would be intolerable to de-
scribe ; but the moment Larry’s jersey got blood-
ttecked, and his nose bulged, and his lips puffed, a
feeling of holy thankfulness—like that which is
felt at the conclusion of one of Dean Cowper’s
sermons—began to pervade the congregation-
heresy I—we mean audience. But, though Larry
was banged all the time, the more he was banged
the more he smiled. And the most ghastly thing in
the whole of that grisly combat was Foley’s smile.
It was a facial contortion that will haunt us for
ever. Life to us is now a sterile blank. Listen :—
We may take our girl to Bondi, on a Saturday or
Mondi,
The sluggish, idle moments just to while;
But even while we squeeze her, be it Anne Jane
or Teresa,*
We shall haunted be by Larry Foley’s smile.
t
’Twas a smile that creased his forehead, while his
nose was bleeding horrid,
While he“ copp’d it on the kisser” in fine style;—
Oh, hot alcohol we tty to, for in vain, in vain, we
Banish thoughts of Larry Foley’s sanguinary
smile.
* * *
It was quite a quarter past five before
people began to get rather tired of seeing Foley
being made a butcher’s shop of. About this time
he was knocked clean through the ropes on the
prompt side and if there had been no guard and
the band had been playing, he would have killed
the man who gruels the big drum. All through
the fight Christie had sat or stood quietly m his
corner; but Jack Thompson, who had all the
while bebaved in a peculiar manner, such as
carrying Foley back to his corner (a ridi-
culous proceeding, for it only tired him), and
“cheeking” the audience, now conducted him-
self with much indiscretion. In one instance
he got 'right into the middle of the ring,
and was indignantly ordered back by Christie.
This gave a forecast of what was to follow. To-
wards the very end of it, a friend of Foley’s, who
was very drunk, tried to interfere with the bottle-
holding arrangements, but Larry resenting this,
very properly tapped him on the jobbernowl. On
this he seemed to those in front to disappear with
the rapidity of a figure in a Dutch clock. It was
amusing to watch the efforts that were made
to brace Larry up. Every time he went back to
his corner he was given ice-watcr, and his head
was plunged in a bath of the same chilly (this is
Bum copy) fluid. And, as to refreshments, he had,
we believe, administered to him everything except
saveloys. Miller, on the other hand, used, when
time wqs called, to stroll over to his chair and get
fanned. Then, when Mr. Forrester (who made a
splendid time-keeper) gave the word, he’d get up,
punch Larry in the nose, walk a bit about the ring,
and come back again. It was like playing skittles.
Only there was only one pin. Then the time came
when Larry got “ groggy,” and, when he was
down, had to he “picked up’’—contrary to “old
Q.’s ” rules—and when his hits grew more feeble as
ho grew more bloody and bruised and battered.
And then What was only anticipated! A
crowd of ruffians swarming the ring and fighting
to try and make a draw of it; the appearance of
the police, and “ an end.”
• • •
We went on the stage to see Foley then.
He was a bruised, swollen, and wretched object.
It made you sick to contemplate him, he had such
a dreadful appearance. There, sitting in a chair,
the centre of a swarm of evil-eyed ruffians, he
looked the picture of desolation. Slowly, very
slowly, they peeled off his drawers, and slowly,
very slowly, he let himself down into his black
trousers. Meanwhile Miller had gone round to
have a shave. Wo met him in the street yesterday.
Ho had one scratch on tho chin—caused by a nick
in the barber's razor.
* * *
Out, then, os we have said, into the tumul-
tuous street: and with quick —but let it rest. . . •
Kiss us, mother, for we re going to bed.
• • •
P.S.—The referee postponed his decision as to
the result of the fight. Next morning he certified
that the battle was a drawn one I I 111 I! ! 1 I
[* The exigencies of the rhyme.— Ed. B.]
The Past.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s a kind of delight In recalling
The wild and incredible past;
The visions so weird and appalling,
Delights disappearing so rast; *. f
The shadows now rising and falling.
Like surges obeying the blast.
To speed past the wailings of sorrow,
Through nights that were solemn and drear,
Unholy with visions that borrow
Wild sounds that the doomed only hear;
When we thought that the light of the morrow
Would never, would never appear.
To loiter awhile where the gleaming
Of sunlight was shed on the way,
Or starlight and moonlight were beaming
A holler light than the day;
When life seemed a dream worth the dreaming,
Immortal and free from decay.
In fancy beholding the tresses
That shadowed the face of the fair.
Sweet eyes that were fraught with distresses
For many—for me ’twas despair;
In fancy to lavish caresses
On phantoms that people the air.
There are sounds that will haunt mo for ever,
Sad melodies sweet with a pain
Of a parting with one I shall never
Behold in these valleys again;
Yet dearer, because I snail never
Behold the sweet vision again.
And, still, on my heart there la falling
A peace from that vision so bright,
And forth from the shadows appalling
A hand leads me into the light.
There’s a sweetness, my soul, in recalling
How you trembled in holy delight.
J. DUNLOP.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
“I am not so good a Catholic as my
brother,” said “Mr.” Peter Carey. What idyllic
simplicity! What touching modesty 1 “lam not
the sort of blackguard ye take me to be.” said
Misther Feeny in “ Arrah-na-Pogue.” “ Thin,
maybe, it’s another sort of blackguard ye are
altogether,” said Shaun-the-Post. James and Peter
Carey “ par et nobile fratrum.”
Once when her Majesty was on her way to
Balmoral, and was about to alight at Perth to par-
take of breakfast, a telegram arrived which stated
that a recently-born child of the Princess Christian
had died. Mr. Brown then proceeded to the plat-
form, where several Perth and Perthshire mag-
nates were in waiting, and exclaimed, in loud
Doric tones, “Nae cheering! nae cheering! Chris-
tian’s babby is deld.”
Some time ago, that most extraordinary
creature. Lady Florence Dixie, got herself attired
in kilts by a Highland tailor. While at Davlot,
she generaUy wore the Highland costume, and, so
pleased was she with herself in that attire, that she
had her photograph taken in it. She is represented
as standing erect and firm beside a tree with a gun
in her right hand, and some dead grouse lying on
the ground at her feet. The kilt Is of the usual
length, and is of grey tweed. The jacket is of the
The Hon. F. A
Wright says he is the
youngest of the Min-
isters. Now, as Mr.
Wright is at least 44
or 45, the still unwed-
ded Adonis of the
Cabinet, the Hon. G.
H. Reid, must be 46 or
47. This is a crusher.
We understand that
there Is now a serious
split in the Govern-
ment, that P.A.W. has
been instructed by
the Premier to with-
draw his slander re-
garding George’s age,
and that G.H.R. has
been recommended
to become a Benedict
before it can be justly
alleged that he has
entered upon his
tenth quinquennial
period.
Regarding our
recent article on the
late Auckland mil-
lionaire, P. Costello,
a correspondent
writes that during
twenty years he knew
him, and never knew
his ear or purse to bo
closed to the appeal
of really deserving
objects of charity. He
narrates several inci-
dents of Costello fore-
going his rents when
tenants were in dis-
tress, and of his mak-
ing considerable pre-
sents. We have no
reason to doubt our
correspondent’s vera-
city; and as the testi-
mony of one act of
kindness on the part
of a man “gone
home” is more wel-
come to us than a
score of base deeds,
we gladly publish it.
Mr. Redmond, a
member of the House
of Commons, the first
club in the world, has
been admitted to no
club in Sydney—he
has been regarded by
the bigoted majority
as a social leper. Mr.
Butler Cole Aaplnall,
the Melbourne advo-
cate, who cams to
Sydney to defend the
wretched lunatic who
tried to murder the
Duke of Edinburgh,
was also shunned as a
pariah by the lick-
spittle toadies of the
leading club. To mark
his detestation of
their conduct, the
Duke did a variety of
things. He used to
march about arm-in-
arm with Aaplnall,
and when the bril-
liant wit died. Prince
Alfred provided in a
handsome manner for
the education of two
of his sons—one of
whom is now a bar-
rister, and the other
an officer in the Bri-
tish navy. Which re-
minds us that the
Duke doesn’t forget
his old Australian
friends. When he was
here, he took a great
fancy to old John
Tait, and told the
veteran to be sure to
look him up if he
went home. Years
afterwards Mr. Tait
visited England, and
taking the Duka at
his word, he left his
card. He was re-
ceived in a most hos-
pitable and friendly
manner, and dined
onoe or twice with a
company of which he
was the only untitled
member.
tame material, while the vest is light. The bonnet
thoroughly Highland, with a stag’s head crest
the left side of it—and the hair is cropped short.
Dr. William Thomson, of South Yarra, is
dead, ag<?d something over 60. Dr. Thomson, who
was accounted one of Australia’s leading medical
men, had for many years a very large practice, his
specialities being a variety of things. He wrote
ably on typhoid fever; he was great on consump-
tion statistics ; he claimed to have been the
original propounder of the newest and most gener-
ally accepted theory regarding phthisis; aud he
was eternally trying to prove that Bacon wrote
Shakespeare. Dr. Thomson was a Scotchman, and,
in the msAia, very hard-headed. He died of abscess
of the liver, and strongly objected, during his last
Illness, to .medical aid being called in on his behalf.
Mr. AiitVoft, Roberts, M.R.C.S., to whom
N.8.W. owes that splendid institution the Prince
Alfred has been knighted by Her Majesty.
WeheartiJiy congratulate Sir Alfred Roberts, and
hope he may long live to wear his honourably
acquired,, distinction. It has just struck us that,
though thq ,” Atfred ” Hospital was named after
the Prince who is now Duke of Edinburgh, and
was intended to, among other things, commemo-
rate the happy escape oiH.R.H. from assassination,
It will, qr„ at:way rate should, live long in the
national memory as the institution founded by
■Alfred £ Robert*,, h We’re glad to notice that, in
the last batch of honours conferred, the recipients
ere all gentleman, and that the majesty of Eng-
land hasp t been dragged; into the political
gutter to stroke down the well-greased fur of any
wretched Janus-headed wire-pullers or threepenny
whisky-mill proprietors.
Of the few noble things that the Third
Napoleon did, the noblest, perchance, was treating
Abd-el-Kader “ as a king.” And now the tierce old
warrior is gone—
Years hence, when all the world is cal-n,
And forts are level, and foes agree
To leave their fighting, trade and farm,
And toil, like oxen, patiently;
When what was his garden palace stands
A desert ruin, choked with sands,
A broken well ’mid trees that fade.
Some traveller still his name may bless,
The chief lang syne that left him shade
And a water-spring in the wilderness.
Concerning Mr. W. F. Parr, a gentleman
who Is perpetually writing from the Melbourne
Club to the S. M. Herald about Fijian affairs, a
Levuka correspondent relates that there used to
bo a bitter feud between Parr and Chief Justice
Gorrie. Gorrle hated the sight of Parr, who used
always to indulge him on meeting anywhere with
a patronizing and superior smile. Once while the
Judge was on the bench he was so fascinated and
tormented by Parr’s refulgent countenance in
the court that he positively couldn’t stand it, and
■topped proceedings to observe that he saw “ a
person” In the court smiling offensively and
whispering to his neighbours, and would treat
such conduct as a contempt of court. Parr there-
upon stopped his whispering, and concentrated his
energies upon a sustained smile of extraordinary-
radiance and continuity. His countenance glowed
with benevolence to such an unprecedented
extent that the unhappy Chief Justice, powerless
to commit a man for looking happy, was nearly
smiled to madness.
The Duke of Cambridge, after dinner at
the Mansion House the other day, was speaking
about the proposed change of the colour of the
uniform of the army. He said “ We are told
there is no sentiment about colour in dress. I And
the British army are no longer to be dressed in
red. I should be very sorry to see the day when it
is not so. I do not think it would be desirable to
hide ourselves too much, and our soldiers should
be taught that the man who goes gallantly to the
front has a better chance than the man who hides
himself. We have heard of a ‘red line,’ and a
red line is not a bad thing when we have an enemy
before us, and perhaps better than a grey line that
nobody would see and nobody would care about.
Therefore, so long as I have anything to do with
the army I shall be sorry to see sentiment put on
one side.” When Cambridge was in the Crimea,
one showing of himself in front in red was too
much for his weak nerves. Like Plon-plon, he
found it desirable to hide a little—urgent private
affairs requiring his presence in St. James-street
just after Inkermann. But after dinner at a
Guildhall banquet there’s a pleasant sense of secu-
rity in talking about red lines. It was usually
after dinner that George IY. was seized with the
belief that he headed the cavalry at Waterloo !
Professor Blackie, who recently has been
dilating upon the advantage of the knife in the
hand of an oppressed patriot, once wrote some
very stirring lines on the same subject; and not
only that, but published them; nay, more, quoted
them with unction in a lay sermon preached by
him before the notabilities of Auld Reekie. We
subjoin a stanza or so, just to show to those who
will make the necessary inference that what is
sauce for an Irishman is not sauce for a Scotch-
man:—
“ And thou* dld’st come, a cassock’d slave,
With windy proclamation,
Parchment and ink and wax, to brave
The spirit of a nation.
And with rash plume did’st brush the flame,
And wert consumed, poor fly!
So perish all who join the name
Of Christ with tyranny I
Prate not of law and lawyer’s art,
When kingly sin is rife;
The law is in a people’s heart
That whets the needful knife.”
Lord Palmerston, onoe upon a time, in-
formed the House of Commons that Consuls were
“not gentlemen.” That sentiment of Pam.’s would
not have been received with empressement at the
banquet in the Catering Company’s big room last
Friday. Indeed, the after-dinner speeches on the
occasion indicated that the Consular parties present
had put on some frills, rather. What Paul, who
represents Russia, meant by calling Lord Augustus
Loftus a first-rate diplomatist, we are at a loss to
understand. Does not Mr. Paul know that (to
quote the authority on the subject) the place of
British Ambassador at a foreign Court has long
been intolerable to any man of average energy and
mature intellect: he has no power of initiative in
any business, and his public conduct is absolutely
under the control of telegraph wires, which are for
ever instructing him night and day. By his own
countrymen abroad he is considered as a mere peg
on which to hook complaints. The courtiers of
the country where ho resides treat him with civil
scorn if ho gives himself airs, and as a Jack Pudding
if he does not. Lord Augustus was an amiable
Jack Pudding, voild tout!
That most wonderful man, Mr. James
George Beaney, F.R.C.8., M.L.C. (of Victoria), &c.,
is cordially detested by the majority of the medical
Erofession of Melbourne, the principal reasons
eing his dazzling success as a money-making
doctor. Mr. Beaney’s chief weaknesses are dia-
monds and champagne. During Berry’s last reign,
Mr. Beaney went home for a trip, and had a com-
mission to inquire into the working of the Euro-
pean hospitals; but, so far, we have heard of nore-
Sort from him on the subject THbaI
Im on every possible opportunity
nas been some sort of a ram>™&,H. ut th at tW
him and his whilom enemy^° C fe n ‘ WwgS
from the altered tone of theSMHpo 18 «ri<lent
bourne correspondence whenever M? A n D ’ 8J fel.
name is mentioned. Just before heanev’s
doctor ” went home, he hired the diat nohd
nmum, and there had an auction of fe 1 * A®
eluding his principal bauble, a diamneH®
485 stones, valued at a few thon<!?,n^i d cha m o{
it was sold for a good deal less. Mr r,? d8 ’ though
ered at Melbourne, and other places „^ ane J’ deli*,
capital lecture entitled “ Doctors 0 Wnal, a
heard in the Supreme Court from p v r ’i > but 4
the publisher (who was killed in the Jnh^?
way accident, and whose widow msrS°n nt mil.
Mandeville, of the Cerberus), that it wm wJu* ptain
order, and cost Beaney a hundred iri)iif o n tt€n to
several costly failures, the sparkRna^ 8- Aft “r
was elected to the Upper House—bcino-?S e at h»t
North Yarra, where he had spent a few?s 086n f °r
in making himself popular. The
known throughout the colonies is ), ,1, wtw ij
master of the science of advertising I" or °ugh
cups to football clubs, silver oars to rowing gives
tlons, gold medals to medical
sive dinners to his friends, and smiles’tA+s„ xpea-
at large. His professional brethren ha™
endeavoured to fix him with chanrcRn? twiee
slaughter or worse, but on each occasion a u n '
emerged triumphantly from the ordeal ° n “ e
David Buchanan
was one of the
sengers in a tSto
which met with «
accident lately.
Jf+a° r 80me reason or
other a terrible snore?
f“ d 80 ,f h ? shock*
the collision, which
shook up the marrow
m the bones of all the
mutt, P asse Pkers pm
out the gas mstanter
and would have
awakened the Seven
Sleepers, was onlv
powerful enough to
restore to conscious-
ness the great advo-
cate, who, finding
himself m Cimmerian
darkness, and con-
eluding that the tram
had merely stopped at
a station, com-
menced: “Hoot! this
disgraceful penuri-
ousness on the pan
or the Government
is scandalous and ut-
terly unpardonable.
Did we not the other
day pass increased
and most leeberal es-
timates for the rail-
way department!”
And then David turn-
ed over and con-
tinued to snore.
The Earldom of
Stamford has a curi-
ous history. The eld-
est son of the Earl
who died in '45 was
summoned to the
House of Lords under
the style of Lord Grey
He died, leaving an
infant son, who, on
the Earl, his grand-
father’s death, be-
came at 18 a peer,
with a splendid for-
tune, great name,
princely connections,
and mania for rural
life and sports. He
lived, lavished his
wealth like a prince
and died on the 2m
January last without
an heir—for he was
the only son of his
father, who was in
turn an only surviv-
ing son. The earldom,
therefore, has fallen
to a younger branch,
sprung from the
family far back.
When the last Earl lay
dying, he had not the
faintest idea of who
was his heir. That
person has been, after
much trouble, found,
and the present Earl
of Stamford is a man
of 73 years of age,
who, a few months
back, was Mr. Grey,
schoolmaster, at the
Cape of Good Hope,
with a Hottentot
wife. He was once a
clergyman, and re-
nounced the office be-
cause he couldn’t get
a living out of it. Now
he has the gift of nine
fat livings himself,
and an income or
over £40,000 a year.
His relationship was
so remote that neither
he nor his friends
ever gave a thought
to it. And here is the
most interesting fait
of all: he has no heir.
At 73, it is impro-
bable he will ha\ e
one. Indeed, if an)'
one told us that an
infant heir had just
put in an apptai-
ance, we sh°uH re-
ceive that statement
with the greatest cau-
tion. And when the
Earl dies, which he
must do not M
hence, the m
heritor of the ea
dom will be ,
dilficult to find than
ever. Almost ant
body named Grey wiU
have a chance.
A very big man in England, with wh ,
name we Australians are all very familiar
deed, stood for the following sketch: He wa*
surly, ill-conditioned lad, with a furtive looK,
early made his mark in society by a method n.
unusual. The mode he selected for distinguis , £
himself was that of levying benevolences, »
became absolutely necessary to speed him
the most lord-loving school in the worm. Jj
head-master waited on his father (who da at
him heartily for his impudence) and protest® _ g0
there was no help for it. He even shed
great was his reverence for the peerage, m
thing had got wind. Of course, another
school was eager to receive the youtbrui m .
meanant, for his father had a great deal or c
and miscellaneous patronage. The boy tup
good abilities of a certain sort, and, wit* 1
surly disposition, he spent most of his un. 0 (
books. As his father, however, was Chance ' Qt
a certain University, it was not thought P* wn .
to enter him there, and he was sent to iNcw | for .
It was not considered expedient to bl ’ m g “ t0
ward very early. A strange ill-luck seem r
haunt him. The Duchess of lost a br^ c f v;,n(rue,
dining in his company. Lady , who had a i tber 's
lost her jewel-case while staying at his i? wit fi
ancestral seat, and had to be comrorccu
hard cash, At length, there was a
own father’s town house, and a then started
tive was summoned—upon which , b ft
on his travels. At 25, he came home attend
lady of the French nation and several sro be eQ
dren. Before his return to England he n»
♦The murdered Archbishop of St. Audx-ew’s.
THATIDIHTED ISH/ELDJ


The Furniture Column.
MAKE YOUR PURCHASES at the ROYAL
FURNISHING ARCADE, 426 George-street,
Sydney, next the Royal Hotel.
GOOD INVESTMENTS FOR EVERYBODY.
> prompt net cash,
House as follows:
The Lowest Net Cash price placed upon everything.
WHEN YOU COME, ask for a copy of the Now
Book, the second edition of the ECONOMICAL
HOUSE FURNISHING GUIDE. It will assist you
in making your selections.
List No. 1 shows how to furnish for £15,
List No. 2 shows how to furnish for £25.
List No. 3 shows how to furnish for £35,
List No. 4 shows how to furnish for £50.
List No. 5 shows how to furnish for £70,
List No. 6 shows how to furnish for £100.
List No. 7 shows how to furnish for £200.
List No. 8 shows bow to furnish for £300.
THESE are all EXAMPLES of GGOD VALUE.
WHEN CIRCUMSTANCES
will not permit a larger outlay, the sum of Twenty-
live Pounds Cash, will furnish a four-roomed
Cottage with comfort and convenience.
For the sum of £25
You can Furnish a
PARLOUR.
Largo cheffonler safe ...
Dining table, 4x3 ...
Upholstered couch
Six cane-seated chairs ...
Cornice pole with rings...
Table cover
Lamp
Clock
Pair vases ' ...
Fonder and irons
Hearthrug
Matting for room
BEDROOM, No. 1.
Four-post bedstead, 4ft. 6in
Pair palliasses
Mattress
Bolster
Two pillows
Chest of Drawers
Washstand and set
Folding chair
Toilet table
Toilet Glass
C. S. Chair
Matting
BEDROOM, No. 3.
Single bedstead
Pair palliases
Mattress
Bolster and pillow
Toilet table
Glass
Washstand and set
Chair
Matting slip... ... ...
KITCHEN.
Pine table
Two chairs
Six plates
Six plates
Moat dishes. Is 9d and 2s 3d .
Pair vegetable dishes ...
Six cups and saucers ...
Sugar basin
Milk jug ...
Butter dish
Pair salt cellars
Set Jugs
Six cut tumblers
Six out wines
Six knives and forks ...
Two table spoons
Six tea spoons
Kettle
Boiler
Saucepans, Is 6d, 2s 6d, 8s 6d .
Frying-pan
Grid-iron
Tea-pot
Tea-caddy
Coffee-pot
Tin disn
Tubs, 4s and 6s
Bucket
Dipper
Colander
Meat stand
Baking dishes, 8d and lOd
Two candlesticks
Pepper caster
Nutmeg grater
Pair flat-irons
Hair-broom
Wash board
Scrub brush
Set shoe brushes
Pair bellows
Hand brush
Dust pan
Knife board and polish...
Clothes line and pegs ...
Next week the £35 List will appear.
WHEN YOU COMB, VISIT the Carpet-room
and General Furnishing Drapery Department.
VISIT the main 200-feet Showroom, where the
Drawing-room and Dining-room Suites are dis-
played.
VISIT the large upstairs Fancy Goods Showroom,
where the beautiful Ornaments and late Novelties
are on view.
VISIT the Sample Bedstead Showroom. All
sizes and all kinds of Bedsteads and Bedding at the
lowest cash prices.
VISIT the third floor Showroom (formerly the
Gallery) where the polished pine, cedar, and ma-
hogany Dining-room, Bedroom, Hall, and Library
Furniture is kept.
THESE FIVE DEPARTMENTS contain the best
and most complete stock wc can offer. The goods
are displayed to the best advantage for the con-
venience of buyers, and everything is marked at
the lowest net cash price.
MANY ARE THE SPECIALITIES, and special
lines in quality and price that we can offer at the
present time. Being importers and manufacturers,
we are enabled to do the best for everybody. We
ask:
Who can sell Cheaper than, the Importer ?
Who can sell Cheaper than the Manufacturer ?
Those about purchasing should consider the fact
that no one can serve them better than importers
direct, and manufacturers.
The more business a firm can contract.
The cheaper it can afford to sell.
And this may be the whole secret of our success.
We buy in the cheapest markets, we manufacture,
and we sell quantity and quality, asking the lowest
net cash price for everything.
The publishing of our handy little House Fur-
nishing Guide has also assisted our business to a
great extent, in fact we do not know how we
would get along without it. Parties living in the
country, who find it inconvenient and expensive to
leave home, are enabled to transact their business
with us by writing for a copy of the book, cutting
therefrom particulars of what they require, and
forwarding the order with remittance for execu-
tion.
Campbell Brothers,
HoyAii Furnishing Arcade,
42« GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
next the royal hotel.
Parents do not use vile drugs or nostrums
in your families, but use pure Hop Bitters. Read.*
A boy says in his composition that “ Onions
are the vegetable that make you sick when you
don’t eat them yourself.”
The evil that men do lives after them.
Even when an amateur concertinlst is hanged he
leaves the fatal instrument behind.
The Rev. Mr. Spicer will leave St. Mark’s
in the course of a month or so. Like every other
quarrel, there arc two sides. The curate has,
perhaps, been a little too Independent and self-
willed; but it’s a fact that the incumbent cannot
keep his curates. Their motto, as we said when
Mr. Spicer came, is: “Brief life is here our por-
tion.”
The insolvency of young Mr. Petty, of Mel-
bourne, has been a kind of nine days’ wonder;
simply, it seems, because he paid thirteen or four-
teen hundred per cent, for a loan. What’s that ?
Who, that wants dross to spend in whisky or to
subsidise the ballet, does not pay with feverish
glee that amount or more —especially more ? When
we had the bloom of roses upon our cheeks and a
father who worked twelve hours a day to support
an Innumerable family, we used to borrow money.
We borrowed it from anybody who would lend it;
and we didn’t care about the interest. All we
wanted was the principal—the principal to spend
in cabs and cigars, and to buy flowers for figurantes
who laughed in their stockings (and why not as
well as their sleeves ?), and to squander in drinks
upon hotel-bar ghouls. Young men will pay any-
thing for funds to enjoy these amusements. There
is a wondrous fascination about these enjoyments
for the downy-whiskered. They call for sherry-
and-bitters, but they don’t like sherry-and-bitters.
They say to the hebe (“deuced fine gyurl, by
Jove!”): “Absinthe, dear; the best appetiser in
the world—always take it;” and when it is brought
they drink it, shudderingly, and then go out for a
quarter of an hour to contemplate the—sunshine.
Usury is a bad crime, of course. But, when the
thing is considered, it seems to us that the money
is just as well in the pockets of Melchisidec Aaronsh
(who is old, and straight on the road there) as in the
maw of ballerines and their entourage. After all,
it comes to the same thing, anyhow. What it paid
to giddy people always, in the end, finds its way
into the coffers of Israel. That’s how It is the
Jews are so rich, and the Gentiles are so poor.
Oddfellowship is said to date from the
reign of the Emperor Nero. We daresay. Nero
was certainly an odd fellow.
elected a member of Parliament. His constituents
could know nothing about him, save that he was
an Earl’s son and held eccentric opinions on the
law of personal property. After a maiden speech
on molasses, he set off to the East. To induce him
once more to bless England with his presence, he
was appointed to a high office on the steps of the
Cabinet. Honours were heaped up over his dis-
honours, if happily they might only hide them.
He was proclaimed a man of genius; ho was pitted
against Bismarck and Gortschakoff; he was trustee
of national treasures, and member of commissions
on every subject under the sun. At length, he was
placed in a position of real responsibility and power,
and broke down completely. England was well-
nigh involved in his fall. His own kinsmen up-
braided him in Parliament with his cowardice,
and in a studied insult, compared him to Titus
Oates, etc. But we have quoted enough.
It seems, after all, that Louise Michel is not
what Mr. Frank Marshall called Queen Bess, “an
Inveterate virgin.” She was married to a Monsieur
—beg his pardon, a Cl toy en—Tinayre, and had
three sons by him, one of whom is an engraver,
and illustrates his mamma’s tales for infant schools.
The late Tinayre was a Communist; but the
Yersaillists caught him and shot him, and so he
met the commune fate before his time.
Fred Belton, once a distinguished member
of Charles Kean’s company, and himself a strikingly
handsome man even in his old age, told us that
George Rignold and a brother used to be violinists
in the orchestra. George fancied the boards, and
was given an engagement, but was erratic or fond
of change. He used to weary of a part, and change
S laces with his brother, who strongly resembled
im. George would slip into the orchestra, and
take up the violin, while his brother took George’s
r6le on the stage. This didn’t suit, however, as
George could act, but his brother couldn’t. Poor
Fred. Belton! He had a hard winter of life. Ho
was, or is (if still alive), a man of gentle manners
and true refinement, and of sincere piety withal.
Charles Kean willed most of his theatrical wardrobe
to Belton. The|latter became lessee of the Exeter
Theatre, and was quite a notable of that staid
cathedral city. The nobility and county families
of the neighbourhood opened their drawing-rooms
to the handsome and gentle manager, and even the
rev. dignitaries of the cathedral unbent to the
player. But, in an evil hour, Fred, (then a widower
and in his fifties) became enamoured of a lovely
soubrette in his company, and married her. His
grand acquaintances couldn’t accept his wife; so
he sold his lease, and went a touring. Fred, wasn’t
a “ star,” and when he tried starring, his fate was
certain. After a fair show in America, he brought
his handsome wife and pretty child daughter to
Australia. The sometime soubrette blossomed into
leading lady, and became impatient of her old
spouse’s shortcomings. She broke engagements,
and broke him, and presently left him to shift Tor
himself while she lived in clover on her own hand-
some salary. Poor old Fred, struggled along, play-
ing small parts where he could get them, and with
uncomplaining resignation half-starving when
he couldn’t. The Kean wardrobe was sold piece-
meal, and often Fred, was breakfastless and dinner-
less. An engagement from Morton Tavares came
to lighten his hard lot, and Fred, went off to
Melbourne in renewed spirits, only to experience
after a few weeks, a fresn lash from fate. Tavares
broke up and paid no salaries. This was the last
straw. The poor player, now a sexagenarian,
deserted by his wife, who had sailed for England,
taking the little daughter in whom the love of the
old man was centred, with her; betrayed, deso-
late, penniless, could endure no more: na-
ture succumbed. A stroke of paralysis smote
the old actor, and the Melbourne Hospital
received his shattered frame. But there was
still recuperative power. “ Thanks to the
mercy of God,” he wrote, “ I have regained the
use of my limbs and faculties. I am again well, but
white.” He had arisen a grey-haired man. Com-
passionate acquaintances made up a purse and paid
for a passage to England. We don’t know what
became of the gentle old man whom children loved
at first sight.
• •
Jack Gardiner, M.L.A., of “As it Were”
and football celebrity, has commenced business as
an auctioneer in Melbourne. He is not yet quite
au fait, but is expected to be a huge oratorical
success in the rostrum ere long...Marks Hermann,
who had to resign the presidentship of Bast Mel-
bourne Hebrew congregation when he was bowled
out in 1400-per-shenting, is now looking more holy
than ever. He has apparelled himself in black,
and is said to be in mourning for the liberty of the
subject, and his chance of getting his cash out of
young Petty’s estate—Mr. James Smith, of the
Argus, who has now returned to Melbourne from
Europe, writes to the Age concerning the charge
brought against him by that paper, of having ap-
propriated, without acknowledgment, certain ar-
guments and quotations from an essay by an
American writer named Dr. Stearns. “ Had I been
here,” writes Mr. Smith, “ my answer would have
been this: I have never seen the essay by Dr.
Stearns; I never knew of its existence until 1 saw
it mentioned in the Age : nor in the interval have
I met with any copy of that essay.” To which the
Age replies: “Mr. Smith denies that he had ever
come across the essay; and, of course, we are
bound to accept his denial. It is the case of Mr.
Puff over again. If he borrowed Shakepeare’s
thoughts, aD that could be said was that Shak-
speare had the advantage of uttering it first. This
is all that we ean now claim for Dr. Stearns.”
Burdett Smith and Blacksmith are not cousins
now— On dit that Mr. Christopher Rolleston
means to resign the N. S. Wales Auditor-
Generalship — Sir James Gorrie is in London,
having vacated his post in Fiji to “ tell the truth at
home for the good of the poor black Polynesian.”
It irks us to think the Vagabond isn’t on his trail.
A Qorrie-Thomas set-to, a la Spicer-Bright, would
draw... .The late Sir John O’Shanassy during life
was entitled to a pension of £1000 per annum under
the Constitution Act, but he never drew a penny
of it. His executors claim the total amount, which
would amount to adout£35,000 We hear that the
editor of the Sydney University Review has
asked Mr. Heydon, M.P., to supply a paper on the
Morns-Ranken Report. Mr. Heydon’s lucubrations
on such a subject should deserve a better fate than
to line trunks or wrap butter.
* * *
H. A. Garfield, son of the late President of
S} 1 ® U.S.A., is second tenor in an American
CollegeGlee Club—Mr. Oscar Wilde has re-
tired to Paris, abandoned the garments of
Bunthorne in favour of the attire of the
Parisian “ masher,” and written a five - act
tragedy in blank verse. Rumour whispers that
t* 1 ® drama is entitled “ The Duchess of Padua,”
and that it abounds with the melodramatic inci-
dents which are appropriate to a five-act tragedy
about an Italian duchess. ..Of the incidents con-
nected with the death of Professor Palmer, Captain
Gin, and Lieutenant Charrington, murdered by the
Bedouins, the most touching is the burial of all in
one cofan—Princess Beatrice was born on 14th
April, 1857. “ Her devotion to her Royal mother
is,” says an home paper, “probably, the reason why
she is the only one of her family unmarried.”
Vanderbilt keeps a chef and seven assistant cooks,
and pays his cordon bleu the snug little salary of
£1500 a year. The other cooks draw from £5(50 to
£1000, according to their position in the kitchen...
When the mail left, R. A. Proctor had for a month
been filling St. James’ Hall, London. The lecturer
never troubled himself about making a sensation
—he only talked on from his store of knowledge.
Yet people who had not booked seats were content
to stand outside for two hours on the chance of
getting a place, and the attendance was as great as
it used to be when Dickens gave a reading, r. .Dr.
Webb, who made a vigorous defence for “Joe”
Brady, the Phcenlx Park murderer, is a loyal Con-
servative of the highest culture, and a man of
amazing versatility. A poet, a mathematician,
and an admirable scholar, he crowned a Univer-
sity career of unusual brilliancy by obtaining “ a
fellowship at twenty-five.” This success, how-
ever, so far from making him the “ happiest man
alive,” only stimulated his genius to new efforts.
As Professor of Moral Philosophy, and afterwards
of Civil Law, he has conquered new fields of fame,
and, while keeping up his academic studies, he has
been able to attain a very high, if not the highest,
position at the Bar.
ARAMINTA.
A BALLAD OF THE BLOCK.
Let us sing a little ballad,
Little ballad from our stock,
Little sort of rhyming salad,
Little “ Ballad of the Block.”
Listen, then: One Araminta—
Call her Araminta Brown—
Was—ahem!—wo will just hint a
Trifle “ giddy ” round the town.
Used to mash the Servants Civil,
Show them just an inch of hose;
Got ’em like the very devil;
Used to mash the ‘ r pretty ” pros.
One day mashed a clerk called Willy—
Quite a daisy—quite a lad;
Mashed him till she turned him silly:
Till he loved her “awful bad!”
Presents bought, then empty pockets;
Spent his money—" blued ” his dross;
Bought her chains and rings and lockets—
Then got drunk and—robbed the boss.
Sobered up; then Willy started
Out to seek some hiding-place;
Then he wrote her broken-hearted —
Prayed to see her lovely face.
In his agonizing hour
Begged once more to kiss her hand;
Begged a ribbon or a llow’r,
Ere he fled his native land!
On the block she got his letter;
Bead it with a laugh of scorn.
“ Go there!” Hoped that she knew better—
“ Bah I” The tear-stained scrawl was torn.
Hasty parting—panting steamer,
Willy hiding in the hold;
Friend upon the wharf a dreamer—
Friend had given Willy gold.
Aramlnta, jewels sparkling,
Mashing, cuts a great big dash;
And when day to eve is sparkling,
Mashes such a splendid mash.
Tall and dark—a regal bearing—
He stood out against the skies;
Araminta soon was swearing
She’d ne’er seen such heav’nly eyes!
Man was loving, his voice sounded
She thought like a fairy harp;
Each word like a love-dart bounded
To her soul with cadence sharp.
“ I am poor, but not,” he muttered,
“ In heart’s love, O understand—”
Hardly were the soft words uttered
Than her purse was in his hand!
Day by day her jewels vanished;
Poor she grew, and saw with pain
That his love for her he’d banished—
That she’d pray for it in vain!
In a wretched, squalid hovel,
In a dark and foetid street,
See a wretched woman grov ;1,
Weeping at a stern man’s feet!
See him hold aloft a shining
Bunch, of baubles, brave and bright,
And upon that form reclining
He hurled them with all his might.
“ Look! the trash that Willy gave you—
Now all told is my stern tale;
You have robbed, and naught shall save you I
Robbed for me —now die in gaol!”
Little ballad about mashing
Mildly told, now, don’t you think ?
Don’t be heartless, if you’re dashing.
And—come out and take a drink.
Queens.
[Some verses, in which will be found what
is seldom embodied in verses—the “ straight tip.”]
You’ve read of Queens “ of regal bearing:”
A lot of rulers we have seen;
At—five, say, have been often staring,
And—weep now at the word of “ Queen.”
The fact is, dears, it does befal
That Queens are not like Queens at all.
The Queen of Spain—just pat as Dort'
We 11 sketch her with a light hand —look.
Bedeck’d with diamonds—with Marfori—
Gaze on her there —a swarthy cook.
A swarthy cook—this is no blunder,
And loud and low and coarse, by thunder!
At Vevey. Holland’s Queen we saw her
(We’ve travelled ’most from Pole to Pole),
The moonlit Alps were there before her
(The hotel was the Mrtropole) ;—
And, though bedizened, ’twould be vain
To sing her anything but plain I
Eugenie—ah, we’ve seen her oft!
When “in the pride of youth and beauty”
(To quote this line, in language soft.
It is the poet’s pride and duty!)
But, yet, you see, the truth is such—
The horrid truths- she “ wasn’t much.”
We’ve gazed upon poor Alick’s wife,
And this is no conclusion hasty.
Nor born of journalistic strife;
She is—let’s say, politely, “pasty.”
And then—to use a slang aboi'tion—
Poor old “Augusta ” is a “ caution.”
And Austria’s Empress—this is straight—
No matter in what garb you rig her
Has but a horsey, swagg’nng gait,
Has but an artificial figure,
A “ Pastor-Allen ” mouth, and, lud 1
Complexion of the tint of—mud.
We’ve seen all these, you may be sure,
When we have been the grand tour’s whirl in;
In Paree and Vienuah—haw I—
Madrid, and, you can wager, Berlin.
And the impression we have got
Is —Queens are an un-queenly lot.
Heartsease.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We twain beneath the garden trees:
I place a little pale heartsease
In her brown hair, coquettishly.
She loves me well: I wonder, though,
If she would smile, or weep to know
Heartease once meant heartbreak to me ?
Heartsease, I spare myself the pain,
Lest you should mean heartbreak again I
VICTOR J. DALEY.
LOUISE MICHEL.
BATHOS.
Parent (concludes a thrilling narration of the story of William Tell)“ and the apple
was cleft in twain, and the child, unhurt, rushed into his father’s ”
Small Auditor (with uncontrollable anxiety): “ And, Pa, who (jot the apple ?”


W. Howard Smith and Sons,
STRUTH’S WHARF and NEW WHARF
(Foot of King Street).
Offices: 43 KING STREET.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS A SATURDA1S.
Steamers Brisbane to Port Mackay and Townsville
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
♦ To arrive.
W, HOWARD SMITH and SONS,
43 King Street, Sydney.
Armstrong’s Remedy for Internal or
Bleeding Biles
Rapidly superseding all other modes of treatment.
For the CURE of HEMMBRHOIDS, largely pre-
scribed by the Faculty. It improves the general
HEALTH, equalises the CIRCULATION, relieves
CONGESTION, stops BLEEDING, FaiA and Itch-
ing, in from 34 to 38 hours. Sold in bottles only, at
4s. 6d. and 10s.
ARMSTRONG’S PARAGON PILE OINTMENT,
FOR OUTWARD PILES. Price, 3s.
Armstrong’s (Camomile) Liver and Bilious
PIUs,
For the Cure of Indigestion, Dyspepsia,? alns in
the Side, Headache, Giddiness, Heartburn, Flatu-
lency, and Habitual Constipation. They give a
Healthy Tone and Vigour to the necessary Organs
of Digestion—the Stomach and Liver—and being
mild in their operation, promote Digestion, restore
the Appetite, and strengthen the entire System.
Price, ls„ 3s., and 4s. 6d.
Armstrong’s Red Jamaica .Sarsaparilla,
in Combination with Dandelion and Potash.
‘ Recommended by the Highest Medical authority
as a Vitalising Blood Restorative and Tonic.”
5s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 31s.
t2T” Goods forwarded to all parts of the colonies,
and Price Lists sent post free.
160 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Two Doors below Compagnoni’s.
FOUR-IN-HAND ULSTERS, 14s 9d ; the Now
Dolman Ulster, 31s 6d. THOMAS BAKER,
opposite Cathedral.
LACK FUR CAPES, largo size, 7s lid ; the
largest size made, 15s Od. THOMAS BAKER,
opposite Cathedral.
CHILDREN’S DRESSES and ULSTERS^in
groat variety. THOMAS BAKER, opposite
Cathedral.
NEWMARKET Jackets, Newmarket Ulsters,
bought at the end of the winter season.
THOMAS BAKER, opposite Cathedral.
BABY LINEN and UNDERCLOTHING, an
immense stock, at low prices. THOMAS
BAKER, opposite Cathedral.
DRESSMAKING! —The most perfect fit guaran-
teed. THOMAS BAKER, opposite Cathedral.
RESS MATERIALS—A very choice selection
of new colourings. THOMAS BAKER, op-
posite Cathedral.
HE New Plaid RIBBONS, in all colours,
7d. THOMAS BAKER, opposite Cathedral.
ENGLISH COSTUMES at English Invoice.
THOMAS BAKER, opposite Cathedral.
French’ MILLINER y7 Newest ’Designs, ex-
tremely low prices. THOMAS BAKER, op-
positc Cathedral.
TVT’EW PLAIDS, New Materials to match,
THOMAS BAKER, opposite Cathedral.
Educational.
MISS LYDIA HASTINGS will conduct a Class
in ELOCUTION and VOICE BUILDING,
for Ladies and Gentlemen, commencing WEDNES-
DAY EVENING, June 6th, 8 o’clock, at SYDNEY
ARCADE, over Wm. Ezold’s Music Store. Miss
Hastings will also give Private Lessons, Ladies or
Gentlemen. 98 Hunter-street; or, enquire of
Chas. Huenerbein, 178 Pitt-street.
The following extract from a letter to Miss
Lydia Hastings, the elocutionist, explains itself,
and will be read with general interest“ I received
one year’s instruction in vocal music from the
celebrated Signor Gorcia, in London, and for some
time have been taking lessons from a very promi-
nent professor in'this colony; both of these gentle-
men complimented me on the quality and manage-
ment of my voice. Believing my voice had not
been developed in its capacity by any system I had
tried, I determined (upon seeing your advertise-
ment), to try your System of Voice Building; and
to my astonishment, in the first lesson I learned
that 1 had not known how to breathe properly, or
how to use the vocal organs to advantage, and
know nothing whatever fit vocal gymnastics; but
now, after only a few lessons, I find my voice to be
one half stronger and more easily controlled than
I began with you, and my articulation has so much
improved that I feel my singing is not mere ‘ songs
without words,’ and tlie practice of your System
has much improved my general health. I take
pleasure in expressing my thanks to you, and,
were it in my power, would make known to all the
singers and vocal students in the colonies the happy
and rapid results I have derived from your instruc-
tions- I am sure they would be glad to know of it,
to take advantage of your stay here. Believe me,
very sincerely, your favoured friend, Mrs. K.
Atkinson, 103 Queen street. To Miss Lydia
Hastings, 98 Hunter-street. Sydney, April 3rd,
1883.” *
J LAWLER, 608 George-street, Bedding Manu-
• facturer, Importer of Brass and Iron Bed-
steads, American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair,
Kapok, and Cotton Flock. Established 1860.
OVERCOATS, .iust opened, 4 cases, the most sty-
lish Overcoats of the season. HOWES’, op.
Queen’s Wharf.
VERCOATS, Overcoats. — Men’s sizes, lined
through, 15/9 to 43/-. HOWES’, op. Queen’s
Wharf.
OVERCOATS, O vercoats. — G ood Beaver and
Pilot Overcoats, 30/-, at HOWES’, op. Queen’s
Wharf.
OVERCOATS, Overcoats—Ulsters and Munstcrs,
at HOWES’, 141, George-street.
OVERCOATS, fashionable and cheap, at
HOWES’, 141, George-street, op. Queen’s
Wharf.
o
ERA
HOUSE.
Lessee, W. J. Wilson. Sub-Lessee, A. T. Dunning.
Stage Manager, T. B. Appleby,
Treasurer, J. F. Goldsworthy.
INCREASING]
MANOLA.
MANOLA.
MANOLA.
6th WEEK j- ENTHUSIASM.
MANOLA. MANOLA.
MANOLA. MANOLA.
MANOLA. MANOLA.
BALLET OP NATIONS!
BALLET OF NATIONS!
BALLET OF NATIONS!
THIS and EVERT EVENING.
Admission—Dress Circle, 5s.; Stalls, 3s.; Pit, Is.
Box plan at Huenerblen’s Music Warehouse,
Oeorge-street, where seats may be secured for any
date In advance. Stalls and Pit tickets obtainable
at Stone’s, tobacconist, next Theatre.
Secretary to A. T. Dunning, A, N. Hallifax.
THEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & Musgrove.
Tremendour Success of Bland Holt’s Novelty
MANKIND.
THIS and EVERY EVENING,
at a quarter to 8, and terminating before 11 o’clock,
MANKIND I MANKIND I MANKIND !
Characters by Mr Alfred Dampier, Miss Blanche
Stammers, and Holt’s specially-selected Company.
Business-Manager for Mr. Holt, W. H. Seaqrave.
ORTH SHORE ROWING CLUB
ANNUAL BALL.
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY,
Friday, 1st June, 1883.
Patron : His Excellency the Governor.
Costume : Evening Dress.
Stewards :
Commodore Erskine, R.N. T. B. Gaden, Esq.
Sir P. Jennings, K.C.M.G. B. O. Holtermann, Esq.
Hon. J. P. Abbott, M.P. M.P.
Hon. G. Thornton, M.L.C. R. Harnett, Esq.
Hon. G. R. Dibbs, M.P. J. E. Ives, Esq.
C. J. Roberts Esq., C.M.G. J. R. Love, Esq,
Chas. Kahlo, Esq., Consul W. G. Laidley, Esq.
for the United States M. M’Mahon, Esq.
C. L. Sahl, Esq., Consul for G. M. Pitt, Esq.
Germany James Thompson, Eeq.
T. R. AUt, Esq. Dugald Thompson, Esq.
Thomas Dalton, Esq., M.P. W. A. Tulloh, Esq.
M. M. Dennis, Esq. R. D. Ward, Esq., M.D.
J. P. Garvan, Esq., M.P. T. C. O’Mara, Esq., M.P.
Alex. Oliver, Esq.
Tickets may be had from the Stewards, and from
the members of the Committee, Messrs. R. W.
Bennett, 8. A. Newsham, Hubert P. Rich, H. H-
Robey, and C. Ball.
ROBERT LITTLE,
Box 425, G.P.O.
Hon Sec.
LEBE ROWING CLUB.
FOURTH ANNUAL
Plain & Fancy Dress Ball,
will bo held in the
SYDNEY TOWN HALL,
FRIDAY, 8th JUNE.
Under the patronage of
SIR G. W. ALLEN, M.L.A., President ;
W. Carey, J.P.; T. J. Chapman. J.P.; J. Young,
J.P.; and G. W. Tate, Esqs., Vice-Presidents;
The Mayor and Aldermen of the Glebe.
Tickets may be obtained from the following
members of committee :—Messrs. G. W. Tate, T. H.
Sapsford. W. Benson, G. Paddle, 8. A. Lee, J.
Doutty, R. A. Daly, G. W. Durrell, W. Brown, P.
Williams, B. Haslingden, A. Ickerson, R. Fair-
weather, H. Cox, J. Sullivan, S. J. Bull, P. J.
Bull, W. Bull, Jun., E. P. Mayes. G. Robertson,
R, Smith, J. Harpur, R. Sanders, R. Spalding, R,
Shute.
R. SHUTE. Hon. Sec.
F. C. WILLIAMS, Hon. Treasurer.
OWL CLUB.
Second Annual Ball
(Plain and Fancy Dress),
|gr SYDNEY TOWN HALL,
THURSDAY, 14th JUNE, 1883.
Tickets—Double, 30s.; Ladies, 15s.; Gentlemen, 21s.
Can bo procured by members or their friends
from the Executive Committee,
Mr. J. Caddy, President, 37 Sussox-streot
T. L. Clarke, Vice-President, F. Lassetter & Co-
W, Stewart, Hon. Treasurer, Pitt-street
Morris Menser, Hon. Secretary, 384 George-
street
Walter Birchall, Eldred and Co., Margaret-
street.
jyj-ERCANTILE ROWING CLUB BALL.
The Eighth Annual Ball
will be held in the
EXHIBITION BUILDING,
Prince Alfred Park,
On THURSDAY, 21st JUNE NEXT.
Dress—Plain and Fancy.
Tickets obtainable from the Stewards, Commit-
tee, and the following shops :—Messrs. E. Cantor,
Parmer and Co., J. B. Holdsworth, F. Lassetter
and Co., W. H. Paling, Elvy and Co., Peapes and
Shaw, J. EUercamp, and Searle and Sons.
Double Tickets, 30s.: Gentlemen, 20s.; Ladies,
12s. 6d.
D. MURRAY, ! Joint
W. A. BLACKSTONE, ( Hon. Secs.
gALMAIN ROWING CLUB.
Patron : His Excellency Lord Augustus
Loftus, G.C.B,
SECOND ANNUAL BALL,
under the patronage of the Mayor and Aldermen
of Balmain, will be held on
FRIDAY, JULY 13, 1883,
IN THE SYDNEY TOWN HALL.
Plain and Fancy Dress.
Particulars at an early date.
W. WATSON, Hon. Treasurer.
W. R. AINSWORTH, Hon. Secretary.
JS I M P S O N ,
, IRONFOUNDER, &C.
Campbrdown Foundry,
Lambert-street, Camperdown, West Sydney.
Manufactures all kinds of ornamental Palisading,
Frieze, Fringe, and Brackets, Plain and Fluted
Columns, Window Mulllons, Colonial Oven Grates,
and General Castings.
fW” N.B.—Orders from the country punctually
attended to, and forwarded by road, rail, or water.
PRICE
ONE
SHILLING.
HOLIDAY
tsatso
o
I
Will be Published in June.
PRICE
. ONE
SHILLING.
HIT
AN ORIGINAL NOVEL, BY HELEN MATHERS,
EYEE’S ACQUITTAL.
TEE COLOURED PICTURE—MY LITTLE GIRL’S GARDEN,
BY H. K. JOHNSON,
•wns parted by this celebrated artist especially for this Holiday Number, and has been 1 cn.M'iu'y
reproduced by Messrs. Leighton Bros., and will be presented gratis to all purchasers of the Illuscka'i kd
London News Holiday Number.
The IToprietors of the Illustrated London News have no hesitation in making the bold assertion
that never before by any country has such an artistic and attractive Number been offered to the public
for Hiioh a low price as One Shilling.
This Number, as announced, will really consist of the first edition of a Novel by a popular an'hor—
(First Editions are usually published in three volumes, for .118. fid.) ; and the Novel will be Illustrated
by leading Artists of the Day, engraved by the best Engravers in Paris and London, in addition to a
Chromo-lithograph, after an Academy Picture of a Royal Academician.
N.B.—Last year’s Holiday Number was sold out the first day of issue, con-
sequently very few copies reached the Colonize. this reason, those who wish to
San Francisco Palace of Art,
LA.TE
13 O YD.
This establishment, so well known throughout the Australian Colonies, is now prepared
in addition to the usual FIRST-CLASS PORTRAIT WORK, to furnish the public, as well
aa TOWN and COUNTRY TRADE, with Copies or Enlargements to Life Size from any
photograph or negative by any of the following processes:—Opals, Autotype, Transfer or
Albumenized Paper, plain or coloured.
Prices on application at the Gallery, 252 GEORGE STREET, or by letter.
The same staff of Artists who have rendered the work of this establishment so famous
are employed, and all negatives taken for the past four years carefully preserved, from
which copies may be had on application.
W. T. BENNETT, Manager.
BROOK’SISEWINGJcqtTONS
s
a?
m
o
o
Co
&
O
o
90
o
Ps
o
H7
&
Ace
/AvjT-
f BROOK’S SIX-CORD
SOFT COTTON
ON
NEW SHOULDER REEL.
VERY CAREFULLY MADE
FOB
HAND & MACHINE SEWING,
BROOK’S PATENT
GLAC£ THREAD
White, Black & all Colours
NEW SHOULDER REEL.
A
THE
The “ Rudge ” Bicycle,
BEST
WORLD.
and
“ Coventry ” Rotary Tricycle.
Bidden by Mr. A. Lee, One and Three-miles Amateur Champion
Mr. G. W. Godwin, Ten-miles Amateur Champion
” Mr. H. Moyse, Live-miles Amateur Champion, Sub-
urban Bicycle Club.
„ Mr. E. H. M‘Bae, Sydney Bicycle Club
All the above Championships (with one exception) were won on “ Rudge Bicycles.
SEND FOR REDUCED PRICE LIST. POST FREE.
J. COPLAND, 31 Market Street, Sydney.
J. S. FRY & SONS
P
AND
Chocolate Manufacturers ,
Bristol Xjorrd.orr.
Sydney Office: Eldon Chambers, 92 P/tt-st.
P.O. BOX 715.


i
c °Uhrr rum r
r
32 0
Prepared acooi’ding to the directions of Prof.
E. N. Hereford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED FOB
DYSPEPSIA, HEADACHE. INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
IMPAIRED VITALITY. NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA. WAKEFULNESS. SEA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY. &C.
tW No Danger can Attend its Use.
Great Relief tiy Its Use.
WINSLOW LEWIS. M.D.. of Boston, the distin-
guished and popular physician, said:
“Having In my own person experienced those
ills for winch the Acid Phosphate is prescribed, I.
having found great relief and alleviation by its
use, most cheerfully attest my appreciation of its
excellence,”
Indigestion and Illndder and Kidney
Troubles.
Portland, Me., Oct. 2nd, 1880.
Hereford's Acid Phosphate has become a favour-
ite remedy in my practice. When completely tired
out by prolonged wakefulness and overwork, it la
of the greatest value to me. I have given it in
certain forms of dyspepsia, in all cases of nervous
exhaustion from overwork, in certain affections of
the bladder and kidneys, and have' always been
satisfied with the results. I prescribe it more and
more as I become better acquainted with its pro-
perties. Of all the samples of medicine sent mo
during the past dozen years, Hereford’s AcldPhos-
phate is the only one I have ever found which has
become a necessity in my own household. Per-
haps I should hardly have been willing to write my
impressions of the Acid Phosphate if I had not
in my own person experienced its good effects.
C. O. FILES, M.D.
Derangement of Secretory and Nervous
Systems.
Rutland, Vt., Jan. 23,1879.
While I am exceedingly averse to giving certifi-
cates, and almost always decline to do so. yet in
the case of “Hereford's Acid Phosphate, ’ I am
willing to say, that, having used it very consider-
ably, I can testify to its groat value in functional
derangements or the secretory and nervous sys-
tems. CHA8. WOODIIOUSE, M.D.
Indigestion in Pregnancy, Malarial
Debility.
Springfield, HI., Sept. 10,1880.
I am much pleased with your Acid Phosphate,
and must say that it has done well in my hands in
Indigestion, and also in that form which sometimes
occurs in pregnancy. I like it very much in mala-
rial debility, and in administering quinine, and in
various other diseases. As long as your article
keeps good, I will continue to use it. In fact,
there is not a week passes that I do not prescribe
it. W. 8. M’BURNIE, M.D.
Uterine Diseases.
Philadelphia, Jan. 20,1881.
Having used Hereford’s Acid Phosphate very
extensively in my practice, which consists mostly
of uterine diseases and disorders incident thereto,
it is with pleasure I attest my appreciation of ita
usefulness. W. L. ATLEE, M.D.
Liver and Kidney Derangements.
Boston, Mass., May 19,1880.
In regard to the Hereford’s Acid Phosphate, I
have used it very extensively, and with the most
remarkable success. 1 give it in dyspepsia and in
all cases where there is derangement of the liver
and kidneys. With my patients it has agreed won-
derfully. G. G. GILLEY, M.D.
Nexual Weakness, Indigestion, &c.
Wabash, Ind., Dec. 28, 1879.
I gave one bottle of Hereford's Phosphate in
case of nervous debility and weakness of sexual
organs, accompanied with indigestion; patient
aged 48 years ; was much benefited. This man had
for 15 years used Intoxicants to excess, but during
the last two years has entirely abstained. Ho
thinks the Acid Phosphate is of much benefit to
tiiin. C. S. ELL18, M.D.
Gravel, Spermatorrhoea, &c.
St. Louis, Mo., March 21,1880.
I have used Hereford’s Acid Phosphate in di-
seases of the urinary organs, such as gravel, and
particularly spermatorrhoea, with very good re-
sults, and ‘think it a valuable remedy in those
diseases. I shall give it a further trial before
reporting at length.
1 T. II. NEWLAND, Jr., M.D.
Pamphlets, with full information as to tho
wonderful curative properties of Horford’s Acid
Phosphate, furnished free on application to
BARRON, MOXHAM & CO., SYDNEY.
<fgT Parties ordering Acid Phosphate are par-
ticularly requested to cut out and forward. The
Bulletin advertisement.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are tho best imported into this country, and have
gained throughout the colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE tho trimmings are of tho best No. 1
leather, and the upholstery is unique
BECAUSE the best of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their finish.
BECAUSE they are each and all built under special
instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of tho leading carriage builders in America,
and specially constructed for tho Australian
climate
And because all who use them say they are the
best.
American Carriage Emporium*
WYNYAED SQUABS, aYDNEY.
BARRON, MOXHAM & CO.,
Sole Agents.
Dr. STANICH, Aurist (by appointment) to
His Excellency the Governor of Mew South Wales,
may be consulted on the Bye, Ear, and Throat
Diseases, at 50 WYNYABD SQUARE, SYDNEY,
The D.T. entered into a discussion with
‘Nemo” (who is supposed to be the missing No.
One) in its own columns, and now iinds that, de-
spite editorial notes and lengthy leaders, it can’t lay
the Frankenstein it raised. Poor old Rum.
Rheumatism, thinks a correspondent of
the Australasian Medical Gazette, is only a
phase of indigestion, “1 am now,” he writes,
“ always able to ward off a threatened rheumatic
attack by missing a meal, and subsequently prac-
tising moderation as regards the quantity, audpay-
ing attention to the quality of my ingesta, and
using laxatives, if necessary. Since observing
this, I have carefully searched for a history of in-
digestion in all the cases of ‘rheumatism’ that
have come under my notice, and have rarely failed
to establish the connection without any uudue
straining of facts. I now treat all my cases of
chronic rheumatism by strictly regulating the
patient’s diet and administering mild cathartics and
diaphoretics >vitb such adjuncts ae may be specially
indicated,”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royau, “ Mankind ” Vide p. 10.
Opera House, “Manola” ib.
A JAR.
Nice little notes from nice little men,
Written each one with a nice little pen ;
Here on our table they lie in a pile,
Crumpled and blotted, and jammed on a file.
One from an actor whom managers shun.
One from a journalist, one from a dun:
All of them tiresome, and most of them rot,
But one little note at the top of the lot.
Dear little envelope, scented and pink,
Sweet little note writ in violet ink,
Let us peruse you, and seo whence you came
And who it was sent you—an old or new flame;
Whether Marian, Maggie, or Annie, or Maud,
Let us see! Let us seeI ere our ardour is thawed.
What is this? “Sir, my thanks! Your nice notice
I’ve read,
And the next time I meet you I’ll break your fat
head I”
On the whole, we believe, for a man on the press,
It’s as well if the world doesn’t know his address.
* * * *
There are a few rather bad diseases flying
about. Among these may be numbered bicycling,
legislating, and playing the impresario. The latter,
we are sorry to say, Mr. John Scantlebury has
caught rather badly. He has caught it so badly
that he is, at the time you are probably reading
this, arrayed in the full glories of evening dress,
and bossing his opera company at the new Parra-
matta theatre. If we didn’t like John, we shouldn’t
be a bit sorry that he had started, with his own
money, in the operatic line. But, sis it is, we are.
For we feel that we shan’t be able to like him any
more now. Not because we have any prevision
of him failing in his “spec.,” but because his
nature will quickly change and he will become
troubled. And we can’t afford to like people who
are troubled. Life is too short. We know what
he will have to put up with. The conductor of
the band will, if a foreigner, “bah!” any sugges-
tion; the prima donna, if biz. is bad, will be gloomy
and the band pensive. And, if one chorus girl is
given a line because she happens to have an H. in
er vocabulary, all the other chorus girls will come
round to the office and scatter Jack’s hair to the
breezes. And, then, he’s sure to get “ mashed ” on
one of the company, and several of the company
are pretty sure to get “mashed” on him. They
always do, on the manager. And then well,
anyhow, we trust John comes back with a lot of
money, for we are pretty sure he won’t come back
with a lot of hair.
* * *
Tue company which opens in “ Boccaccio ”
at Parramatta this (Thursday) night, comprises
Miss Josephine Deakin, Miss Grace Henriques, Miss
Maude Rouse, Miss Theresa Horan Mr. Vernon
Reid, Mr. George Dean, Mr. Gaynor, and a lot
more. John, we hear, has secured Mr. A. T. Dun-
ning’s version of the opera, and all the scenery and
dresses. This is very good. Wc suppose Jack has
had to pay a good deal for the right, though he
oughtn’t to bo made pay much for the dresses.
There’s so little of them! We are curious to seo
how all this will “gee.” Miss Deakin is all right
“on the sing,” and if she has learned a little
more opera bouffe abandon, she ought to be
very good in Kate Chard’s part. Grace
Henriques would be a draw if she hadn't tq play
the part of an old woman. We trust that. Miss
Henriques will, for the credit of her profession,
“ make up ” for the part according to the author’s
directions. But we have little hopes of it. She is
pretty and all that, and will want to “mash” the
boys. They all do. Maggie Moore is a notorious
sinner in this respect. Even in Ruth (in the
“ Pirates ”), an opera the plot of which hinges upon
her plainness, she used to appear in a ‘“get up ”
that periodically knocked the binocularists silly.
We told her so, too—and we don’t regret it. But
the other critics didn’t. Which were they afraid
of, wo wonder—Maggie’s frown or James’s boot?
Miss Maude Rouse will, we believe, be under in-
structions to spread herself out all she can so as to
look like as many pages as possible. The men are
all right, and if the big drum be sober and the
trombone not insubordinate, all may be well.
Esp&rons-le!
* * * *
The Italian Opera Company are doing
pretty reasonable business at the Gaiety. Miss
Alice Rees took a benefit on Tuesday night. Miss
Rees is the pet of the company. We feel as we
write this that we are of one mind with the com-
pany. As an artiste, quite enough has been said
about her. If we said anything further, people
would know what we have till now let “ conceal-
ment like a worm in the bud ” make a square meal
of. So we shall remain silent. As a whole, the
company is a good one, and deserves all the patron-
age it gets. But the members, though artistically
meritorious, are not visions of unearthly beauty.
They are like a slack-baked half-quartern— nice
and plain. It is a good thing for professionals,
ladles we mean, to be plain. There is all the less
likelihood of their being tempted from their pro-
fession. It gives us pleasure for all that to see
these dusky strangers doing so well.
* * *
We are almost afraid to mention the Opera
House after having, though unavoidably, main-
tained such a reticence about it in our last issue.
We shall personally apologise to Mr. Dunning
when our new microscope is made. “Manola” is,
we learn from the other papers—the only thing we
ever have learnt from them, by the way—drawing
good houses still. So that Mr. Dunning will be
able to wait with all the more serenity for our
apology.
* * * 41-
Just one line about Bland Holt. His im-
personation of the costermonger is, to us, almost
too realistic. We have known costermongers ere
now, and they have known us—but not favourably.
The play is running more smoothly every night.
For a full notice see—our preceding issue: if you
can get a copy.
Louise Pomeroy has returned from India.
This is a paralyser for Josh Pickorsgill. Josh was
just about to start a Diorama, we gave him a
send-off, and bade him a pathetic farewell. We
don’t know whore he is now; but if he is anywhere
this side of the place where all Amerlcens go to
when they die, ho will come back on the wings of
the wind —or walk—when ho roads this paragraph.
* * * ♦
Marian Melrose played Juliet to Harry
Emmett's Romeo, at the Darlinghurst Hall, one
night last week, for the benefit of a church. Lieu-
tenant Rose dispelled the murderous thoughts of
the audience by conjuring. And the lady who
accompanies Dr. Hughes, the Freethought lecturer
gave her services as pianiste. We wish we were a
church.
* ♦ • «
They are playing several things in Mel-
bourne just new. There is Rignold, at the Royal,
playing—but we will let you guess. You can’t ?
Well, he is playing “ Henry V.” We knew we
would surprise you. And George Darrell is draw-
ing fair houses with his new drama, “ The Naked
Truth.” The novelty of the thing, we suppose,
was the attraction. Wc have never seen the
naked truth on the stage. But wo have seen some-
thing very near it. Wybert Reeve is playing at
the Bijou, and Fred. Hiscock’s Federal Minstrels
are doing a good business at the Victoria Hall.
Fred says the elite ef Melbourne are his patrons.
The very fact of their patronising his show would
make them the Hite for Fred.
* * ♦ *
Hart’s Happy Hours Company are return-
ing to Sydney, after a successful tour in the North.
They are travelling slowly because, wo believe,
they have had to hire a bullock-dray to bring down
the money they have made. We wish they would
put a little on our plate.
" THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession.]
George Darrell, not content with being
beautiful, is clever also. “ Back from the Grave,
his original mellow drama, has seemingly gone
back to the grave, but George has hooked on to
the Melbourne public afresh with another of his
own pieces called “The Naked Truth.” We warn
George this won’t succeed in Sydney. People here
don’t like the naked truth. They much prefer an
emblazoned lie, any time A Mdlle. Ory, pupil of
Vieuxtemps, is playing before critical audiences in
Melbourne, and pleasing them. At a recent recital
the Marquis of Normanby was present. The
Markiss is able to go about more than our Gussy.
He hasn’t so many chuckles on his mind... Louise
Pomeroy has arrived at Melbourne from India
We see it stated that Mr. James M'Mahon, the
acute but diminutive Sandhurst youth who piloted
Mrs. Scott Siddons and Modjeska, is going to act in a
similar capacity for Henry Irving.. Pollard’s Lilipu-
tians appear at Townsville and the Towers middle
of June. Later, Montague Turner Co. play there.
Spicer’s “scientific sham” is up there, too, splin-
tering away at Genesis. As Spicer has an edition
of his own, however, it won’t matter.
* * *
SHE’S A PET.
Oh! the plump and pert soubrette,
She’s a pet.
She can ogle and coquette.
Then forget.
Blonde her flowing hair, and yet
Only recently we met,
And I say it with regret,
It was jet.
Bv’ry night a seat I get—
From parquette.
There I worship her, and yet
Fume and fret.
At the matindes, you bet,
I am always to be met,
And for roses for my pet
I’m in debt.
Oh, perfidious soubrette,
To coquette
With my heart f My eyes are wet
With regret.
It was hardly etiquette
Your adorer to forget
For a fellow with a yellow
Clarinet.
Mr. Frank Hewett (“Musettes”) writes us
from King William Town, South Africa, that he
opened the new £40,000 theatre, at Durban, which
is one of the prettiest houses ho has over seen. It
will, however, be a great loss to its owner. The
Musettes, Mr. Hewett says, have given 140 per-
formances in Africa, netting £3080, and have driven
all through with their own horses, &c. The
Musettes are the only company travelling in that
country, and have often played in settlements the
people of which had never seen an entertainment
before Giese, the violincellist, and the rest of
the Boston Quintette Club, have been playing in
Canada with Christine Nilsson. Nilsson was the
guest of the Marquis of Lome and Princess Louise
during her stay in Ottawa—The Duke of Edin-
burgh has presented Mine. Marie Kozo with a
handsome diamond brooch,. It is intended as a
souvenir of the recent concert-given at the Liver-
pool Philharmonic Hall, braid of the Royal College
of Music, on which oesasion Mine. Marie Roze sang
Gounod’s “ Ave Maria,” accompanied on the violin
by the Duke The Jews are a musical race. The
following composers belong to the Hebrew na-
tion Marschner, Ernst, all the Strauss
family, Ferdinand and Felicien David, Joachim,
Pasta, Offenbach, Jules Benedict, Otto Gold-
schmidt, Klaus, HaltSvy, Moscheles and Mendels-
sohn, Ferdinand Hiller, Nicolai and Wieniawski,
Strakosch, Grisi, Carl Loewe, Blumenthal, Ascher,
Sterne, Levy, Eichberg, and Wulff — Mexico
seems a good place for handsome operatic stars.
Mdlle. Theo, during a season in the City of Mexico,
was presented with a heavy gold and diamond
bracelet; a big ingot of unpolished gold ; a silver
box, containing a complete assortment of Mexican
coins; a massive crown of silver, adorned with
thirty ounces of gold; a rich collection of Mexican
cloths ; a mail box of embossed silver ; an ivory
fan of exquisite workmanship, bearing her mono-
gram in gold ; and, Anally, a whole gallery of
quaint little statues illustrative of Mexican life
Respecting George Eignold, N.Y. Music and
Drama says:—“Kignold’s popularity as a lady’s
favourite was the result of long-sustained and
adroit puffiing by J. Tooker, then business man-
ager for Palmer and Jarrett, managers of Booth’s
Theatre. Divested of the blonde wig that he wore
in ‘Henry V.,’ and the picturesque attire of the
part, and away from the glamour of the footlights,
Rignold was a big, burly, brutal-looking English-
man. whom most people on passing on the street
would put down as a butcher in his best clothes
out for an airing. He was brusque in his manner,
and not over refined in his language, but was,
nevertheless, a burly, rather liberal man when he
chose to be pleasant. Tooker delighted to describe
his magnificent form as the paragon of manly
beauty, and in his sly slurs at the pigeon-chested
and pale-faced Montague must have had consider-
able quiet fun all to himself. On the stage, made
up as Henry V., Rignold had legions of admirers
among the ladies, and his photograph was in great
demand, but, after the matinee, they would pass
him on the street without dreaming it was he, so
great was the metamorphosis. Not being anything
of a lady’s man, like Montague and Tearle, and,
moreover, being a married man, he never devoted
much time to the fair sox or social events; and
never indulged much beyond a pot of beer and a
chop—never attending dress dinners, or a ball
The following is the “ ooal-box ” of the latest Lon-
don comic ditty:—
He’s the nicest of the nice, he’s the sweetest of the
sweet;
He’s just the sort of gentleman a lady likes to
meet.
He’s the bravest of the brave, he’s the lambest of
the lamb;
And when he comes a-courting, why, it’s jo am
jam, jam.
Santley, the eminent baritone, having resolved
to adopt a religious life, has joined the Passionist
Fathers at Sutton, near St. Helens, Lancashire,
where he is now acting as a lay brother. Saintly
Santley!... Poor old Ristori has definitely arranged
to revisit England about the autumn, beginning at
Liverpool. Mr. Walter Bentley will support her as
Macbeth, Louis XIV., Leicester, and Essex
Christine Nilsson says:—“Next season will be my
farewell to America, and then I shall retire from
the operatic stage, and live in England, but I will
die in Sweden, and will be burldd in the church-
yard of my little peasant church at Skatlof, near
Vexio.”
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“Paroo”: (1.): No, it’s 180 miles off. (2.)
We have road it. Mr. Ernest Morrison is evidently
a very green young man, indeed. Here, for in-
stance “ Fever 1 had to fear us well as the blacks;
quinine would be required to combat the former;
a telescope might forewarn me of the latter.” This
latter sentence will elicit a derisive chuckle from
the bushman. Just imagine looking for niggers in
the Far North with a telescope!—“G.H.S.”:
Excellent “J.F.T.”: Thanks. Have dealt with
the matter, as you will see—“Yass”: No, you
could hardly detect the vegetable alkaloids—
“J.W.B.”: We’d much like Jo see a partnership
established between G. Ernest Morrison, Gilboy,
Dick Skuthorpe, and our old friend, Classen —
“P.L.” (Mudgee): Your editor appears to lack the
intelligence requisite to discriminate between an
illustration to a rcductio ad absurdum, and a
deliberate suggestion... W. E. A. (Wingen): We are
acquainted with the pessimist views you sketch.
They have been very forcibly pressed by some
modern philosophers of the second rank. They
strike us as terrible and revolting, and if they were
established as proven, universal suicide would bo
about the only sensible course. Without dogmati-
cally insisting that the law of claws and talons
cannot be true, wc have always turned away from
it. and cast about tor something more hopeful.
This is a matter of temperament. No candid man
pretends to hold certainty. Meanwhile each can
contribute something to diffuse happiness around
himself “Young Australian As you arc “only
19 years old, and a young Australian, we shall, as
you ask us, do our best to help you. You have
composed a “ new song, written in honour of the
Australian cricketers.” And you have sent us a
copy, which we have burnt. This is the best wo
can do to help you. If it only helps you to get
over the delusion that because you can wheel a
barrow you can write an ode, we are content—
“Octavious Henry Tudor”: You are right regard-
ing the yarn. But don’t you think the sculptor
who cuts a statue out of a block, and not the
quarryman who furnishes the block, deserves the
credit of the result ? Of course your case is not so
extreme, because your case was genuinely fan-
tastic. Wo think the “ embellishments” improved
it, however, because de mortuie nil nusibonum —the
man who made them, is dead. Dead to literature,
we mean. He is now driving a hearse... “J.B.”:
Very good. Glad to print anything you send in
the same, or any other equal style — “E.8.C.”:
Lord Augustus Loftus should have addressed his
“draught-bullock” remarks to his Secretary at
War, and not to an officer in no way to blame for
an absurd penny-wise stinginess, which tends to
destroy what little efficiency the local artillery
possesses....“A Christian Mother”: Thanks al-
ways welcome. Those were our sentiments. We
want to awaken people to what you justly term the
dangerous signs of the times. Persistence in make-
believe that things arc as one would like them to
bo, will bring about a catastrophe... “Melrose”:
You send us an execrable dose of balderdash, and
want us to assist you in climbing the ladder of
fame by reviewing it. Well, here’s the best wc can
conscientiously do for you :—
For verse such as yours is, we haven’t a name,
And your spelling your “ poetry ” licks ;
It over you climb up a “ladder of fame, ’
It will be—with a hod of brick*.
“C.G.M.G.”: Very welcome — “C.”: Not our
style “H.A.R.”: Seems to us to turn on a tech-
nical point; but of course there’s no doubt he stole
the horse.... “T.J.T.”: Some good, some not; send
again....“Mus.”: Well meant, but weak style....
“J.A.”: Don’t understand a word — “Anng-
mann”: Thanks “Well wisher.”: Wo are
much obliged. Impossible to get in last
week,.. ‘‘J.N.” Burwood: Under consider-
ation. ...“G.D.A.”: Seems a private matter—
“C.F.W.” : Ditto...."Excelsior”: Good boy....
“G.R.”: Too meagre to build on—“L.G.” (Bal-
main) : Your verses convey truth, but in a dread-
fully weak way. The whole lot could be put in a
couple of prose sentences—“Rose”: Much
obliged....“Momus,” Gladesville : Capital; send
along more ideas — “Veritas,” “End ’: To hand
‘"Dick Deadeye”: Will deal with the matter
properly next week....“Peter Pigmore”: Will
read at our leisure — “J.B.P.”: Many thanks —
“ Eva ”: Too long in present form ; we 11 make a
par, for next week. Put you have a rattling style.
Do you think you could put us together something
short and snappy occasionally, with the same spirit
in? Try “Observant”: Thanks. Your advice
is honest and kindly meant, we are sure, and we
shall probably—excuse us—not follow it.
Club secretaries will oblige by sending in their
fixture-lists, &c., on Mondays.


PEPPER AND SALT.
You have all heard of Buckingham Palace.
Or, if you have not, let us tell you, at once, It is a
rather feeble palatial monument situated in what
Is called “Green Park,” in London. There are a
lot of peculiarities which surround this palace.
One Is that, at a Drawing-room, if a lady faints,
she can always bo supplied with brandy and sherry,
but could not get a cup of tea for a hundred
pounds. We can quite believe this. Why should
Her Most Gracious Majesty serve out—with her
own fair hands—gunpowder tea, when she knows,
by a long experience, it would only be a drug in
the Imperial market ? It is a well-known fact
that three-fourths of the female and four-fifths of
the male aristocracy of England like wine very
much indeed. They do not say, as we do, in our
weak moments, “Comanavadriuk;” but lisp musi-
cally, “Shall we take a peg?” Taking “pegs”
appears to create a little confusion in aristocratic
circles. Lady Desart took them, and “ froze on” to
an actor at the Prince of Woles Theatre; Lady Ayles-
ford took them— we will not say with what result.
Lady Mordaunt—in short, we might go on for ever.
The moral of this—if there be a moral in it—is that
they nearly all love wine. None of the aristocracy
ever take tea except in the morning, and then they
are so ashamed of their weakness that they blush
through rose-coloured curtains. It is now a matter
of fact, and our assertion will stand faster than any
of the coloured prints that are sold by the drapers,
that “booze” amongst the aristocracy is now
almost universal. Brides have been found coming
to the altar, in ducal marriages, and saying “I
will ” with an ominous hie at the end of it. Bride-
grooms have arrived at church so “primed” that
they have had to be conducted up the aisle by
several supporters, all the time ejaculating in thick
and continuous accents: “ Whashshishollaboutole-
tler ?” Go to the Eton and Harrow match, and you
will not only see the historical “Drunken Duch-
esses,” but drunken duchesses’ boys, and drunken
duchesses’ boys’ fathers and uncles and friends.
Liouor! We should smile! Why, look! When Lady
Florence Paget jilted Chaplin and married the Mar-
ouls of Hastings, the chief amusement of the patri-
cian couple waste stand out on theiv hotel balcony
at Newmarket, and make the crowd scramble for
red-hot sovereigns and bottles of champagne
Then take the Earl of Lonsdale, who is
now dead. He was the “ protector ” of Kate
Vaughan before she was similarly honoured
by the “ Hon.” Colonel Wellesley, but used to be so
drunk when going to fetch his inamorata that
even John HoDingshead, who is a notorious syco-
phant, dare not let him into the theatre, but used
to prop him up into a corner of the Gaiety Restau-
rant until Kate was ready to take her seat in the
Lonsdale brougham, drawn by a pair of 600-guinea
bays. This is the piece in which Miss Vaughan,
Nellie Farren, &c. play, and which Mr. Hollingshead
calls “the sacred lamp of burlesque.” We could
give examples of patrician profligacy until you
would be tired. But we don't want to tire any-
body. We don’t want to say how the Duke of
Newcastle used to go to the Blue Posts in the
Haymarket, and dispense champagne in quarts
by the hour to demi-reps and cabmen; we do not
want to hint that the Duke of Hamilton was re-
fused admission to the “Raleigh,” and subse-
quently blackballed for the Jockey Club, for
being “ paralysed ” (alcohollcally) on several oo-
caslons. However, all this is mere detail, after all.
Because dyspepsia is a malady even Ministers are
liable to. And, therefore, why should we cavil at
the vices of the Upper Ten when—but why, any-
how?
“ My hose—there, hanging on the fence!”
Her guiding hand left no pretence
To misinterpret, but his gaze
He dared not from the pathway raise.
Ah, shall we blame him if the quick
Pudicity of youth throbb’d thick
Upon his lofty brow, and left
Him motionless —of speech bereft ?
Pale fires of evening glimmer’d on
A dome of azured chalcedon,
The Pleiads faintly flushed afar
As Frederick wished himself a star.
He saw her still above that rose.
And heard as stunned, “ Do fetch my hose!”
Convulsively he raised his head,
Then gasped “Good-bye,” and wildly fled.
Since Frederick went, three years have pass’d,
And now another holds her fast
Who loves her like a man, and knows
Where hangs the brass-tipped garden-hose.
HER OWN.
When Maud and Algernon were wed—
A couple blithe and gay—
His blushing bride to Algy said
Upon the wedding-day,
“ Darling, it doesn’t matter much,
But though we two are one,
My property you cannot touch;
Now how is this for fun ?”
Algy replied “ It was a joke,”
And then his sides he shook;
But from that time this bridegroom “ bloke
Assumed a musing look.
So Time spun out the web of years
For Algy and his wife
With woof and warp of “tears ” and tears
Upon the loom of life.
Till unexpectedly one night,
Before his usual time,
Algy came home with spirits light IS
And thoughtsthat rang like rhyn*'.
POLITICAL VICISSITUDES.
“IN IT.”
FREDERICK.
Sweet winds breathed lightly ’mid the flow’rs,
Perfuming’ daylight’s dying hours;
And, sinking through a glowing mist
Of light, the sun seemed amethyst.
A maiden and a youth were there.
She beautiful, he debonair;
As hand in hand they paced along,
Love tuned their hearts to happy song.
The summer glory lingering shed
Soft lustre round her shapely head,
When, stooping o’er a thirsty rose,
She murmured, “ Frederick, fetch my hose.”
He started, wondered, idly stared
Before him, as but ill-prepared;
“ Your hose ?” his quaking accents came,
While blushea showed his tender shame.
We have taken a long time to think over
it. This is not our usual custom. We very rarely
take a long time to think over anything, except
bills. But this is more than a bill. It is an Act:
the Married Woman’s Property Act, and no less.
Well, we have no objection to wives having con-
trol of their own property as a general thing. We
have no wife of our own yet, but, when we do get
one, we shall raise no difficulties about her having
entire control of what she brings with her when
she leaves her father’s house to come to ours. If
it turns out—which it is very likely to, as we were
born to be taken in—that she will bring us the same
amount of property as the wife of a friend of ours
recently married brought him, we shall be pre-
pared, when she is divorced from us, to send it
after her and pay the postage. We might mention
here that the contribution of our friend’s wife to
the matrimonial bank was a stay-lace. But there are
obstacles in the way of the working of this Act.
The following is an obstacle. But we may as well
Sladen the finish of this paragraph, anyhow. So
many people, you see, prefer rhyme to reason.
EedivUe /—
The lights were low: a mellow gloom—
The day with all its din
Had died—hung softly o’er the room
As Algy sauntered in.
He stares as though his eyes were weak;
What is it makes him glare ?
Only two figures, cheek to cheek,
Upon the sofa there.
One was his Maud; the other —oh
Woman, your smile who knows.
How could you cheat your husband so
Under his very nose ?
The other was a stranger man. Well,
There was the usual scene;
Said Algy, furiously, “ You’ll tell,
Madam, what this may mean.
“ You’ll rue the day that you were born,
If thus you go beyond
The pale.” Said Maud, with icy scorn,
“ Look at the marriage bond 1
“ I’d have you, sir, to understand
A thing you might have known—
Thit gentleman’i my true love, and
My property’ t my own.”


BRIEF MENTION.
Gradual disappearance of crime. Old colo-
nists going home.
A Benalla (Vic.) man suicided with a gim-
let. Life and death alike were to him a bore.
When a man writes neither poetry nor
prose, it is now the right thing to say that he
** Sladens.”
Two men died in West Maitland lately—
one at 90, the other at 94 years of age. There are
no trams up there.
There’s one man living yet that we admire.
It is the genial, generous, jocular, philanthropist
who Inserted this ad. in the Herald: “ Well-edu-
cated youth required for merchant’s office; good
penman, quick accountant; no salary first six
months. Apply P. O. Box 156.” We passed the
G.P.O. the day this appeared, and never saw so
many youths congregated about any box as about
box 156. We don’t know whether they were well-
educated or not; though we could not but remark
that their faces bore expressions which could not
have been, even by a bat, mistaken for pleasing
expectation. One we noticed, too, carried a little
hatchet.
It was stated last week that a leper has
been for many years a waiter in a hotel in this
city. This is nothing. We have them in every
other profession; why not, therefore, in hotel
waitirig ?. What surprises us is that there are not
more lepers on the domestic staff of hotels. Judg-
ing by the look of the interiors of some hotels in
this city leprosy ought to lurk in every corner.
A Sydney sculptor has. we are informed,
offered to establish a school for the study of the
nude. This, we presume, will be a primary course
intended to familiarise students with the outlines
of the female figure. The tilling in can be studied
in shop-windows. Since the offer was made, we
hear that several members of the Young Men’s
Christian Association have developed a decided
taste for art. With these, a few divinity students,
and the unfailing client*? of baldheads, the enter-
prising sculptor ought to do well.
Sentence from a Herald leaderMel-
bourne not infrequently adopts the old Imperial
maxim, and says ‘ Australia e’est mot.’ ” You
don’t say so 1 We always thought this was
a Monarchical maxim, and, in our simple ignor-
ance, used to ascribe it to Louis Quatorze.
As it happens, there never was a French
Empire except in the Napoleonic times. During
the reign of Louis Quatorze his realm was entitled
the kingdom of Franco and its colonies. But, then,
we suppose they don’t teach much foreign history
in the Board Schools.
A correspondent, writing to the Herald,
suggests that the Colonial Architect and the carver
of the Post-office bas-reliefs should be proceeded
against for “ disfiguring portion of a public build-
ing.” This is to the point; and in case of their
conviction we would add another suggestion, viz.,
that the Colonial Architect should be employed to
design, and the carver to execute, while they are
In confinement, frescoes for a cell for such refrac-
tory criminals as solitary confinement couldn’t
subdue. If this wouldn’t reform them, hanging
wouldn’t.
Says a New Zealand paper;—“ A workman
of Irish parentage, employed at Otahuhu, had
saved £40. and was about to take unto himself a
wife on the strength of it, but patriotically re-
lented, and remitted the cash to the Land League.”
Of the two evils we think he chose the lesser.
Investing in a wife is often like investing in an
infernal machine and losing the directions—you
don’t know when she will go off. He was a far-
seeing man, that Otahuhun. We presume he con-
cluded the Land League would spend his money
in bombs, and considered that it was better to
blow up than be blown up. There is more fun in
it, anyhow—to the Land League.
When old Cakobau, ex-King of Fiji, was
burled, the Governor, who attended the funeral,
“delivered an impressive address, in which he
spoke of the regret he felt at the loss of one he so
much honoured, referred to the many virtues of
the deceased, and happily compared a light rain,
which began to fall, as tears shed by heaven on the
occasion. This is the sort of Governor Fiji has
Been wanting all along. It is no wonder Sir Arthur
orion was unpopular there. He had no command
of that felicitously picturesque imagery of speech
combined with magnificent disregard of fact which
so touches the simple savage heart. It was a bold
flight of oratory which pictured heaven us weeping
over the corpse of an old cannibal. Even in their
enthusiasm over it, though, it is hard to suppose
that the audience did not recollect heaven shed-
ding similar tears to make the lire sputter and
Cakobau curse when he was rousting a missionary
in the good old gastronomic days.
From the Echo “ Dr. Danne, Congrega-
tional minister, has returned to St. Kilda. lie has
been studying medicine in Europe, and will hence-
forth practice in the two professions.” What a pity
he lan t a lawyer as well. Then he could prescribe,
exhort the poor devil to repentance, give him a
proper glimpse of Gehenna, and make his will.
And If Ur. Danne also consented to Join to his
other three professions the occupation of under-
taker, he could dig his client’s grave, make his
coffin, screw him down, and with his own hands
drive the hearse. But, seriously, no parson over
made agooddoctor, exceptof Divinity. You can’t
expect a man who has hitherto administered seda-
tives in the form of sermons to believe much in
chloral hydrate and bromide of potassium. The
two professions are as hopelessly at variance as
Science and Genesis, Bright and Spicer, or Taylor
and M'Elhone. If it be the will of Heaven—in other
words. If It be not at variance with the laws of
Nature—that a man is to recover, then he’ll recover,
and nice versa. No cure which can be effected by
the doctor or surgeon can be accelerated or aided,
by the parson.
This is pretty good. A London paper says:
—“ Taking compassion on a tiger at the Jardin des
Plantes, the other day, a Frenchman endeavoured
to break a few wires of its cage. The tiger added
Its own efforts, widened the hole, and at last
bounded off through the garden. Its emancipator
is now in a cage by himself, at the police office,
awaiting the arriva' of a compassionate tiger to
release him.” But this is better. When a mena-
gerie was travelling in Queensland, a country
editor in one of the towns they passed through,
more out of curiosity than cUnrity, opened the
cage of the gorilla, one day while the attendants
were not looking. The gorilla escaped, and the
editor slid also: but not far. The cage was again
tenanted, and the menagerie left next day. It w$e
aoh till they had seen their captive eat that they'
discovered their mistake. They had taken the
editor. But they were too far on their way to go
back, and the public never saw the difference.
We don’t know whether the gorilla edited the
paper after, but, Judging by the improvement in
the style since then, we should think it probable
he did.
Country institutes abound in South Aus-
tralia. They are under the control of a central
establishment on North Terrace, over which the
great “ Robert” rules supreme, while the trumpet-
toned Benham bosses “Robert.” The secretary of
a country institute has to hang in a conspicuous
position the code of by-laws whereunder the con-
cern is worked. Among these by-laws is one to
the effect that “ no game of cards can bo played
in this institute.” Such a secretary lately wrote to
the aforesaid heads of the department stating
that he had been asked by his subscribers to start
a “ whist club ” in connection with the Institute,
and requesting permission to do so. Dire conster-
nation seized the officials at North Terraco on
receipt of this barefaced demand. Revolution,
nay, annihilation, seemed imminent I The board of
governors held a special meeting, Lavington
Glyde in the chair. Lavington expressed himself
as shocked. He had heard that some people dese-
crated life with whist, but to him extra taxation
was better. Rowland Rees expressed doubts as to
whether his great prototypes, “Pheidias” and
Trelawney had ever played whist; while Todd
just returned from the Postal Conference, swore
he would rather introduce cheap postages and
telegrams than connive at a terrible proceeding
which might land them ho “whist not” where.
“ Robert ” said he would sooner forget his goloshes
and blue bag three consecutive mornings than con-
sent to such sacrilege. Benham shrieked he would
rather go to Purgatory than consent ; and a
frightful rumpus displaced the usual serenity of a
gubernatorial meeting. Just when the storm-
cloud was about to burst and vivid reproaches
were being hurled at the callous country secretary
who had dared like Wanda to ignore the regula-
tions; the assistant-librarian handed in a telegram
from the offender, as follows ; “ Withdraw appli-
cation. Did not know whist was a game of
cards.” 11 Truly true I
POLITICAL VICISSITUDES.
“ OUT OP IT


Redmond says he’ll be glad to get away
from N.S. Wales to Free England.
Mr. DeCoubct Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Export. Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 126 Pltt-#trqet, Sydney*
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Departments undertaken. .Titles a
speciality.— Advt.
A Presbyterian clergyman preaching in a
New Zealand town accounted for the small attend-
ance at the forenoon service by saying that the
streets were then “blocked up with drupkeu men.”
This is very rough on his congregation ; and
rather a crusher for himself, inasmuch as it seems
to imply they would not even start for church
unless they were drunk. This reminds us of an
incident which occurred in Sydney some time ago,
when a certain opera company was playing. A
pressman—we need not go into particulars, for the
cap will fit almost any journalistic head—was taken
to task by one of the company for having written
a rather acid critique upon the performance, and
accused of being unsober (we flatter ourselves this
is a somewhat neat way of putting it) while he was
at the show. “Drunk," replied the critic, “of
course I was—how the deuce else do you think I
could have sat it out I”
An illegal conveyance —The tram,
A notice of motion—The railway whistle.
The flour garden of the colonies —South
Australia.
The last scene in the Phoenix Park tragedy
—the drop scene.
Some districts have new gloves for the
lodge; from others, a new “black cap would be
just the thing.
Mr. Denton says that mankind sprang
originally from a germ. Probably he refers only
to the Germ-ans.
The insulators were just the thing for the
shanties on the new telegraph lino to Nyngan.
They made first-class conductors—of beer.
In the United States there are fifty-five
female undertakers. Hero the unprotected females
keep boarding-houses. The result is similar.
“ Quad dixi dixl" is the motto of the Lady
Florence. In view of her proclivities towards
lying, quod dixi’s dickey would be nearer the mark.
So, according to the Rev. Mr. Spicer, the
storv of the first man is Adam lie. Then what
becomes of the rib bone? Ribbon, of course!
Himp-la!
Prize-fight. No quorum at the Congrega-
tional Synod. Strong party in favour of Larry
Foley—as a solace for his defeat —being appointed
to tho vacant Bishopric.
Comparing the work, of John Brown with
that of “Wales,” “Ichdlen” would have suited
t lie former far better than the latter, for whom,
perhaps, Ich dine would be more truly appro-
priate.
There is trouble between the editors of the
Boitrke Watchman and the Mudoee Telegraph
about the way to spell “alcohol.” Wo would back
either of them against Webster for this particular
word.
John Brown, possibly having “Ego et mens
Rex” in his mind, was wont, we are told, to speak
of the Queen of England and Empress of Hindos-
tan, either as R. and I, or (after his sixth toddy) as
I and R.
A Melbourne policeman recently resigned
because he would not accept 6s. (id. a day. But it
must be remembered that this was directly after
race-time, and that during the last week he had
“ lumbered ” 75 drunks.
The man who, having saved a little girl
from drowning at Manly, subsequently applied for
compensation to tho society that runs the Royal
Humane business in Sydney, sullied his heroism
by his self-seeking.
Panclasite is a new explosive which is to
dynamite what dynamite is to gunpowder. We
hail the discovery as being possibly a power potent
enough for the task of shifting Lucas from his seat
in the Upper House.
An Episcopalian clergyman, the Rev.
Jeremiah Murphy, was earning a living as kitchen-
man in a restaurant in one of the New Zealand
towns not long ago. It is queer how clergymen
always like to be near a fire.
When the larrikins of the city go into the
Botanic Gardens they amuse themselves by
spitting into the eyes of the monkeys. Two of a
kind never agree. This with an apology to the
monkeys.
Sammy Lees, Police-superintendent Read,
and other professors of the hate-your-neighbour
form of Christianity, will be shocked to learn that
on the evening of the Queen’s Birthday the Rev.
John Osborne, in presence of several witnesses,
distinctly expressed bis admiration for Roman
candles 1
The Rev. A. C. Gillies is in trouble at Dun-
edin, because he called the elders of his church
“ bullocks and idiots.” Well, as the flocks of the
Church are continually called “sheep” and “lambs”
why not? As regards calling them “ idiots,” no
doubt he had good grounds for choosing that
particular epithet.
How are the mighty fallen! A little
while ago if a man struck another a terrible stinger
on the mouth, ho was said to have administered
a “ Larry Foley.” Now when a man’s remains are
sent home to his relations in a hamper they carve on
his tombtone that he was “ Millered” in the flour
of his youth.
A writer on the Pitt and Hunter-street
staff censures Australian journalists all round for
spelling “Innuendo” inuendo. Why doesn t he
suggest to the Herald “readers” the propriety
of rendering the Virgilian words “ strepitumque
Acherontis avari ” in that form rather than in
this: “ Strepvmqm” etc: also, he might profitably
point out to them that “ arbiter eley antiarum” is
a bastard form of what we presume it was meant
for.
It seems the spirit of poor old John Bowie
Wilson appeared in Melbourne a few days after
bis death. It only gave the name ot John Wilson
at first, but acknowledged to the other name on
being questioned. We expect it had forgotten this
name in the hurry of removal to a new sphere.
What makes spirits come back to the scenes of
their former existence after they seem to have
quitted for good ? Wo think it must be to haunt
their creditors.
Pays the N.S.W. Liberal: “In England a
butcher has been imprisoned for selling donkey
for food. This is rough, for. In our experience,
wild donkey is as good as beef,” There was always
something very queer about the writing in the
Liberal— now we know how to account for it.
Wo used to think the editor lived on locusts and
wild honey. Now, we sec, he lives on wild don-
key. Nothing like wild donkev for nourishing the
brain.
The London Times mentions, as a proof
that the clergy are more esteemed than heretofore
in England, the fact that 20,000 persons crowded
into Canterbury Cathedral to see the new Arch-
bishop enthroned. We are open to bet that 40,000
would have crowded into the Cathedral if the
Archbishop had undertaken to consecrate 1000
curates in 1000 half hours. Curiosity and idleness
are not indications of devotional feeling.
The Evening News can work the “ might
have been” with excruciating effect. Concerning
that escaped motor, it observed: “Had not the
tram been clear of the danger several persons
would undoubtedly have been horribly mutilated.”
How intensely that Dutchman would have been
drowned had he only peen in de wrecked pote!
How jammed the larks would be if the sky were to
fall! 'What a genius would be Alf were he not
something else !!!
A writer in an up-country paper says: “ I
find in tho Appropriation Act—under ‘ Depart-
ment of Justice’—the sum of £50, travelling ex-
penses for general committee of the Necropolis.
I should like to know who the general committee
are, and how they spend £50 per annum on travel-
ling.” AVe have heard it whispered that the general
committee is, in reality, a committee of one, and
that he has a free pass on the railway lines. If
there is any truth in the statement, a little Inquiry
into the item in question is evidently needed.
The Victorian people want us to take over
one of their gunboats—one that they don’t want.
Will wo? Why, cerCnly! Hold on, though, and
let’s think. The gallant Simmons is not now guard-
ing us from the enemy, as his brilliant warship is
tied up at Cockatoo Island. So, if we can take
quick delivery of a vessel to guard our hearths and
homes, we don’t mind £20,000 for an “ Alpha
Beta.” On serious consideration, it would be
advisable to buy it. We don’t want, though, a
gunboat so much to guard our hearths and homes
as to protect the Wolverene from danger.
A new kind of umbrella, which seems to be
a source of Inexhaustible fun, has been introduced
to the Sydney market. It has a spring in the handle
which, when touched, lets loose with a jerk a ten-
inch dagger of fine steel. This umbrella is specially
intended for prayer-meetings, tea-fights, and Synod
sittings. AVhen you are going to any of these, you
take this amusing article with you and leave it in
the rack in the passage. When the meeting is dis-
persed, your fun is to hang back and watch every
man that passes reaching out his hand for your
property. This sport is said by those who have
tried it to be bettor than pig-sticking.
The present decade will be famous in New
South Wales for its bedlam jurisprudence, if for
nothing else. A man was convicted in Bathurst,
the other day, of stealing boots. The Magistrate
gave him three months because it was his first
offence in Bathurst. And yet he had been con-
victed in Sydney fifteen times before. At this rate,
a man may commit murder in every district in the
colony and only get imprisonment for life in each,
because of each murder having been his first
offence in that particular place. We think this is
really reprehensible. In our opinion, he should be
hanged in each place. But, if lie is hanged in one,
and only sentenced to penal servitude for life in
another, people will begin to think that Judges are
tritiers. We certainly shall, anyhow.
The Melbourne Age thus righteously hits
out at the whilorae Spiritualist and now soi-disant
Freethinker, Walker“A moment’s consideration
should tell any thinking man or woman that the
themes which he handles with such pertness and
audacity have puzzled and outwitted all the com-
manding Intellects of the day, and that problems
which Spencer and Huxley and Tyndall have re-
tired from in despair, are not likely to be solved
by a pinchbeck Bradlaugh for whom the kangaroo
and the savage have only just made room.” Now
If we had said anything like that in a similar con-
nection in New South Wales, a beautiful libel law,
administered by a knight Manning and assisted by
a “quadrilateral” of nightmen, would have mulct
us in appreciable damages.
Alfred is creased all over with smiles.
The Town and Kuntry Jeknel has been awarded
a first order of merit and a silver medal at the New
Zealand Exhibition. We should be glad to hear
this, very glad, but for one thing. The medal Is
likely to create some slight discord between three
brothers, who have never quarrelled since we
plaved hockey with them at La Perouse with four
saplings and the heel of Chris.’s shoe. Of course
Alfred, in view of his literary and poetic merits,
will claim the right to wear it blazoned on his
lappel when he bobs periodically to the Governor;
but Frank will up and say derisively, “Yah! you
may have written the stories and poetry, hut who
greased the machine V’ Chris, will take different
ground. He will claim to wear the trophy on
polite and aesthetic grounds. “You two may have
done the grovelling,” he will proudly say, “but
who did the ornamental?” Then, if the conversa-
tion should be held at Compagnom’s, he will
languidly call: “Garsong, tar de corfee, aud a
Setite pang.” It will end, in all probability, in
lavies wearing it, for, producing a blunderbuss,
he will thunder, “ Who saved your lives when the
subscriber called round about Mr. Alfred gra-
tuitously instructing the people how to play the
flute?”
The lot of a patriot is not a happy one.
The local papers say that when Mr. Redmond
arrived at Goulburn he met with a cool reception.
We should say he did—even a stiff one. The corpse
of an Orangeman was the first thing that met him
on the platform. It never as much as scowled at
him, so it must have been a very dead corpse
indeed. They argue down there that this was an
ill omen for him. We don’t see it. Rather we
should say it was a most encouraging incident. We
won’t say any more lest we should hurt the feelings
of the corpse, and we wouldn’t care to do this,
because we shall be a corpse ourselves one day;
and a very ugly corpse we will make, if the
opinion of our friends is worth anything. Levity
aside, however, we have no prejudice against
death—in fact, we consider it quite respectable as
a general thing; but we have one strong objection
to dying ourselves—it is so difficult for a dead man
to get a drink.
Judging from the glowing account given
of it in the Armidale papers, the hanging of Rus-
bourne, the murderer of Jimmy Young, the Chinese
doctor, was quite a gay affair in its way. Howard,
the hangman, and his assistant, were engaged for
three days before the “ swing ” came off “ in
manipulating the rope, with the result that it
became as pliable as it made of silk.” And, on the
faith of the local journal, the sky was “cerulean ”
and nature “smiled” with more than her usual
cheerfulness. Rusbourne slept well on the night
preceding his execution, and in the morning “ ate
a hearty breakfast and joked with the man who
was watching him.” And when he was on the
scaffold, and the burial service had -been read,
“ Bishop Turner and Archdeacon Hose shook hands
with him.” Why, we would almost be willing to
be “worked off ” ourselves to got a Bishop and an
Archdeacon to shake hands with us. And yet, it
seems, Rusbourne was a Buddhist. He was only a
Buddhist five minutes after that. Now he is on
bis way around the cycle of existences, and we
shouldn’t wonder if he would turn up in the next
place as a bishop. Let us hope so.
A man went out and hanged himself, the
other day. This occurred at a place near Grafton,
The local paper says: “ The act Is supposed to have
been premeditated, as deceased had dressed him-
self in his best clothes that morning.” Evidently,
there is an etiquette for suicide up there. We
suppose, now, that a man who hanged himself
without first polishing his boots and trimming his
whiskers would put his corpse outside of the pale
of respectable mortality, And, we presume, it is
not d« riflueur to hang oneself in mourning, as
that would seem egotistical, and argue too much
self-consciousness. Also, that it would be an
unconventionality bordering upon social outrage
to commit suicide in a nankeen suit in winter or
in a suit of serge in summer. There is a decorum
even in death, you see. Soft-goods houses here
may take the hint, and, in the next lot of things
they are sending up Grafton way, Include such
items as “Blue serge, well shrunk—an elegant
article for drowning in,” or “Fine West of Eng-
land tweed —a chaste material for cutting the
throat in.” We give this hint to them gratuit-
ously. But, if they do want to send a hamper,
they know our address, or, if they don’t, they can
And it from the first policeman.
We have received a couple of numbers of
the Critic, which is run by a mutual admiration
society in Melbourne, and is as prosy as Pldding-
ton. It will (unless subsidised for ever by a sowing-
machine man) go the way of all such journals.
How many have we seen rise, never gleam, and
always Hit 1 Humbug, the Irishman, Town Talk,
and heaven only knows how many besides! But
where are the men going or gone to, who used to
give one another those nice little pars?—“We
notice that our clever and genial friend So-and-so
is appointed Melbourne correspondent of the
Brigalow Bunion;” or, “The news that So-and-
so, famous in the world of letters, is to edit the
new satirical paper, the Jumbuck, will be pleasant
reading.” Where are they? They are the jour-
nalists of the past, and they are fading away I
Poor fellows! Well, now they want, we daresay,
money to recuperate their healths with, they
want sympathy, and they want admiration. The
money and the sympathy we might vouchsafe
them; but the admiration! Well, well. As Major
Pendennis was in the fashionable world, during
his declining years, so are these Critic gentlemen
the Pendenuisos of literature. Fancy, now, the
motto of the editor:—
“ I am Sir Oracle ;
And when I ope my lips, let no dog bark.”
Poor old fellow I Helmoans “ no other dog.”
We’ve lately read in the 9.M. Hebald a
lot about Vanderbilt’s glory and magnificence.
Wo now see that some time ago he refused to let
his architect have about £5000 to expend on a
carved faucet for the bath-tub. His architect is
justly disgusted at this meanness, feo , 1
we of Sydney had Vanderbilt’s money, we would
have our bath-tub cut out of solid crystal with a
plug of solid gold attached to a chain °/
stones. And we should have mirrors of silv er all
round in which to look at ourselves. And when
we turned on the shower, otto of roses should tail
upon us. And we should dry ourselves on towels
made of swansdown and silk. And when we had
done bathing we should hram our attendant with
a club and call for a new one. Tb /® w iivinr
every day, because we call this sort ot thing living
in comfort. If we wanted to live in style, we
should do it in something like _ style, .but we
shouldn’t want to, because our tastes are “
severity. But people now-a-days don t know how
to live. They are ignorant of oven the wmmon
neaessaries. We are so disgusted with the world
that if it weren’t for the tact that we are now able
to afford three meals a day we should quit it. btiu
we don’t suppose that Mr. Vanderbilt is much
meaner than our own millionaires. We don t
think they would expend so much money on even
a bath-tub, let alone the trimmings. Whyshould
they? wbat’8 the use (as the histone Sydney
alderman asked) of spending mu ch money on
mere ornaments? Better lay it out in a sheep-
trough.
Poetry is a flower which grows in strange
soils. Now-a-days you never know may
meet a poet. We have met them a ,
the boot business, the tripe trade, the soft goods
line. We have come across them behind the bar
I ot a gin-shop, fallen across them m rtontof it,
met them in the abodes of the humble, in the man-
sions of the wealthy, in the hospital, a lock-
up—but mostly in the hospital and the hmkup. So
it caused us no surprise to read in a late Melbourne
paper that a threshing-machine driver over there
whose wife was suing him for a divorce was a
poet. We don’t know whether she was suing him
because she had only just discovered this fact, but
it would cause us no shock of surprise if it were
so. It appears, however, that there was another
reason —this child of song had been poeticam
giddy with some other fair creature. Borne of ms
letters to his wife were read 111 court, in oneof
which he stated, when he was starting to live with
this other we presume, that he wished her to
“ keep ,the,piano, and hoped it would help her to
while away the dark and dismal future.’’ Thereis
a delioacy of diction combined with tender
thoughtfulness about this which might have
brought tears to every eye in court If sentiment
were not so unfashionable now-a-days. In the
next letter that was read ho spoke of his paramour
as a noble creature, endowed with the purest affec-
tion, and “ guiltless of aught else than a consuming
ardent love, which, like many others, she was un-
able to repress.” But what poetry ever softened
the heart of a Judge ? Too hard, what rhythmic
monody ever softened his head ? Too soft already.
So the case was decided against the thrush-throated
threshing-machine driver. It is no wonder that
poets have been called an unhappy race; no
wonder that Plato proposed to banish them out of
his Republic; no wonder that philosophic piemen
banish them from their cart. Eheu!
This is the sort of thing that’s now taking
place about three times a week in Sydney:—
Gentlemen, are you charged ? Then I call upon
you to drink the toast of the evening—Our Guest,
Mr. Jonas Scoopall. Though I would wish this im-
portant toast had been placed in abler hands—
(NoI no!)—I think that this is the least we ought
to do—(hear, hear),—seeing that our esteemed
friend, Mr. Scoopall, has, with such disinterested
generosity, provided us with complimentary tic-
kets to this farewell banquet to himself. (Hear,
hear.) For many years ho has resided in our midst,
an unostentatious citizen, remarkable in an emi-
nent degree for nothing in particular. Gentlemen,
I feel I cannot say too much on this point; deli-
cacy forbids. His home circle has seldom suffered
from his absence; In fact, his habitual attendance
to his private duties, to the wants of himself and
—and (hear, hear) and, gentlemen, his strict ad-
herence to the first law of nature, have made him
conspicuous to those of you who know him. For
the proud position he now occupies, he has to
thank no great stroke of luck, pluck, adventure,
or speculation; but a constant, indomitable (hear,
hear), grubbing determination to make money,
for the noble purpose of—of (hear, hear) of ac-
cumulating wealth. (Cheers.) Upon the occasion
of his leaving us temporarily, for a—hem I a visit
to North Shore, let us wish him bon voyage, and
pray that while he is on the briny deep, his percep-
tions may be opened to see even more en-
larged means of pursuing the noble work of self-
aggrandisement, and that on his return, if such be
God’s wish, Mr. Scoopall may, with the divine
blessing, continue as heretofore to labour In his
sphere of usefulness, and to work for—for-rand to
geti-to—under the Almighty guidance (hear, hear)
to accumulate more wealth. (Loud and prolonged
, cheering.) “ For he’s a Jolly good fellow 1”
According to the Echo, a Croesus who died
lately—by the way, combining facts with fireside
pastime for once, we may say that the original
Croesus died as poor as an Echo poem—left a
clause in his will directing that “his executors
and trustees should, on every anniversary of his
death, for 36 years following that event, duly ad-
vertise it in the then existing local morning papers.
It is hard to think that the Rum will enjoy so
little of this legacy. But there is another field
opened for the canvassers. Every death-bed will
now be attended by half a dozen spectres looking
for the mortuary advertisement. Let us suppose
a scene. A wan, wasted man is lying in a bed hung
with silken hangings. He is dying gently (rich
men, by the way, always “die gently,” or “pass
off peacefully;” it is only the poor man who dies
“in horrible agony”). But he has been a sinner,
and he trembles. Just then the canvasser stalks in.
The dying man turns suddenly in his bed, stares
at the new comer, and then a serene soft smile
plays upon his wasted features, and he murmurs,
“ God bless you; the parson told me I would go to
hell. I have seen you, and now I have no fear of
hell. You can have the advertisement.” This
is not all, though. Another clause in the will of
this benevolent old buffer directs that a “ hundred
a year out of the income of his estate shall be paid
to the editor of the local Journal tor the time being
having the largest circulation. Such sum is to be.
In the editor’s discretion, distributed in donations
to the pressing cases of need that newspapers are
so often the first to bring before the public.” It is
unnecessary to say that the money need never go
out of the office. This will be a throw in for the
reporters. But after the editor’s needs are re-
lieved, we are afraid the poor things will come off
about Just as well ns though there had never been
a will made in their favour at all.
There is considerable trouble in Melbourne
over the Sunday opening question. Each side is
becoming bitter: but the Sabbatarians are gall and
wormwood, while the others are, as yet, only sar-
saparilla. Columns long of argument, cut and
thrust, carte and tierce, appear in the local papers
every day, and each party bites its thumb at the
other in the most approved swash-buckler style.
We think wo can fix this matter for them in less
space. VoUa: the Sunday Observance League giv e
this as their “ scientific frontier that no insti-
tution shall be opened on Sunday for purposes of
trade or pecuniary profit.” Very well: shut up
the churches. Set aside all your pious prejudices,
and look at this view of the case like the men of
business you are. Does not a minister ply a trade '(
Is he not paid in common worldly coin for preach-
ing, praying, and so forth? Are not collections
made at church every Sunday for his support?
Very well again. Now, Messieurs the Saints, you
object to men being employed on the Sabbath in
Art Galleries, Museums, and so forth, to minister
to what others consider their spiritual wants. You
think it right and proper to pay a man to adminis-
ter to yours on the same day. But then, you say,
we object to the employes in these public institu-
tions being deprived of their “God-given day
of rest.” Don’t you think It might be as
well to let them speak for themselves ?
How do you know they would not rather
do without this day of “ rest” if they are paid
extra? We venture to say they would. And when
it comes to the point, the argument of the Sabba-
tarians themselves, that “these national institu-
tions are the property of the whole nation, and not
a section thereof,” cuts two ways. If a section of
the nation should not have the right to open them,
a section of the nation should not have the right to
keep them closed. The Sunday Liberation Society
might with quite as much Justice ask for the
churches to be closed on the grounds that the
services “do violence to their conscientious
scruples.” We are in favour of church-going
ourselves, because wo hold the Sabbath to be a day
of rest, and we can rest there better than anywhere
else; but for that reason we don’t see why we
should prevent other people from resting in their
own way. We don’t believe the great body of
even church-going people care a cent- one way or
the other about the matter. A few zealots and
fanatics only, urged on by the parsons, arc sound-
ing the toscm. It is a clear case of coin. If the
Art Gallery and other places are opened, the
church attendance will be lessened, and the collec-
tion-plate impoverished. Why not bo honest, and
put it in this way ?
THIS IS NOT “THE JERSEY LILY.” BUT IT IS ‘‘THE DUBBO SHAMROCK.”


CITY mi BUY
315 George Street.
A few of our undertakings MOST SUCCESS-
FULLY carried out, among which will be found
the LARGEST, MOST DIFFICULT, and MOST
RESPONSIBLE events that have taken place since
the opening of this establishment.
His Worship the MAYOR’S PICNIC, for 450, at
Clontarf.
His Worship the MAYOR’S BALL, for 1600, Exhi-
bition Building, at which his Worship, John
Harris, entertained their R.H.’s PRINCES AL-
BERT and GEORGE, EARL CLAN WILLIAM,
and the Officers of the Detached Squadron.
MASONIC BALL. English Constitution, for 1353,
Exhibition Building.
MASONIC BALL, N.S.W. Constitution, at Town
Hall, Sydney.
Visit of their R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Llthgow Valley Minos and Zigzag.
Dinner A la Russo, for 00, in Government Palace
Dining Car while travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000SCHOOLCHIL-
DREN— rc Queen's Statue Demonstration—under
VERY SHORT NOTICE, only receiving the
order at 2.30 p.m., to bo ready on the spot at 13.30
p.m. the following day.
Visit of THEIR R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Captain Cook’s Landing, south side
of Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon and refresh-
ment, for 100, under VERY SHORT NOTICE, re-
ceiving order at 9.30 p.m., to bo ready on the spot
at 1 p.m. following day.
The LADY MAYORESS’ RECEPTIONS, Town
Hall.
The UNION CLUB BACHELOR’S BALL, at Exhi-
bition Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE WINDEYER.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE INNES.
Dinner a la Rmse at St. Paul’s College, for 150 Mem-
bers of the CBURCH OF ENGLAND SYNOD.
Dinner d la Russt to the INTERCOLONIAL RIFLE
TEAMS, Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at HAWKES-
BURY RACES, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at RAND-
WICK RACES, in Grand Stand.
The CONSULAR DINNER, in our new Banquet
Boom.
Banquet at CAMDEN, Tramway Opening.
ARMIDALE RAILWAY Demonstrations. Ban-
quet for 400; MAYOR’S BALL, 600, same evening,
and CITIZEN’S BALL, 500, the following even-
ing.
Dinner to the PRESBYTERIAN SYNOD.
Breakfast to the CONGREGATIONAL SYNOD.
ST. VINCENT’S Hospital Ball,
THE MERCANTILE Rowing Club Ball.
Numerous Banquets and Entertainments by HIS
WORSHIP THE MAYOR at Town Hall. &c.
Numerous Dinners d la Ruzm in the NSW
GOVERNMENT PALACE DINING CAR. while
travelling by rail, on account of the GOVERN-
Togother with a numerous lot of Private Dinners,
leasts, Weddings, Garden Parties, Balls, Tea
Meetings Land Sales, Suppers, Picnics, Fishing
Excursions, &c.
UAL T BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION
BILIOUSNESS. COMPLAINT, WEAKNESS, &c.
PRICE..
2s. 6d.
A. G. KEBBLEWII1TE, Chemist, &c..
48 ERSKINE STREET ; and
W. H. SOUL, Pitt Street,
KOUMISS! KOUMISS!
1ST THE GREAT MILK DIET.
registered trade mark.
KOUMISS is not a quack remedy, but is
prescribed and used by all the leading Physicians,
and will POSITI VELY CURE the above complaints.
We cordially invite the public to call at our office,
161 PHILLIP STREET, and judge for themselves
of the EXTRAORDINARY TESTIMONIALS al-
ready to hand from well-known citizens. Reference
is permitted to all the leading Physicians, also to
the following: The Lady Superintendent Childaen’s
Hospital: Rev. G. Macarthur, King’s School, Para-
matta; Alderman R. Butcher, Mayor of Woollahra;
T. Hales, Esq., Manager S. O. Co.; Duncan M’Kay,
Esq., Whittingham; Augustus Morris, Esq.; Rev.
J. J. Carroll, St. Augustine’s, Balmain; Rev. Z.
Barry, St. Matthias’. Woollahra; Capt. Rountree
Balmain, and many othei-s.
NEWYEAR.NEW YEAR-FURNITURE, FU1
NITURE.—How to make your homes cou
tortable. Why. is to call at If. LEVY & CO
CENTRAL FUllNISHING ARCADE, 29, 31, and
Park-street, where you can get every descriptic
of lurmture, Bedsteads, Bedding, and every r
quisito for housekeeping. New Shipment of Gooi
just opened. Prices not to be equalled anywhe
in the city. Come and j udge for yourselves.
ft IME PAYMENT. TIME PAYMENT. TIME
■ PAYMENT.-!!. LEVY and CO., Central Fur-
nishing Arcade, 29, 31, and 33, Park-street. The
only house in Sydney where you can furnish on
the New Time Payment System, from £10 to £1000.
No Bills of Sale. All Goods are Marked In Plain
Figures, and no deception.
Australian furniture. Australia
FURNITURE. We have a Splendid Asso
ment of all the Newest Kinds and Shapes, at Frit
that will Defy Competition, on the New Time Pi
ment System. H, LEVY and CO., CENT1L
FURNISHING ARCADE, 29, 31, and 33 Park-stre
EVERY
MAW
SHOULD
READ
I
I!E. 1118101*8 SEW MM.
A valuable book, describing how Bufler-
ers from Nervous and Physical Dnhilily,
Mental Decay and all disorders i-esult-
inp: from Excesses, Indiscretions or
Overwork, are permanently Cured
WITHOUT STOMACH MEDICATION.
Weak, nervous Sc impotent Men restored to
VIGOE, HEALTH AND MANHOOD.
Consultation and Book free. Address-
11 ALSTON EEKBD7 Co.. 359 Gocrgo St.
SYDNEY.
your Chemist or Grocer cannot or will not
L supply you with the “ PAINLESS CORN
RELIEVER,” write direct to the Registered Pro-
prietor, who will forward a bottle to all parts of
Australasia, Post Free, for 2s. 6d.
Addressf—JOHN CLOWES,
One Mile Creek, Gympie.
Lady Florence Dixie, in reply to a request
that she would allow her dog to be be exhibited,
stated she did not like to be without him.
All your own fault if you remain sick or
out of health, when yo« can get Hop Bitters.
Read.*
PLAINT OP THE BARCOO SWAIN.
This red summer weather, this red summer
weather—
It’s coming upon us, it’s in us and on us,
I quiver and tremble, and try to dissemble
My fears while I may.
0 jaws that I scrub so, O brows that I rub so,
So sullenly sallow, I feel you like tallow,
Trick tricking, drip dripping away I
1 cannot move lithely, I cannot move blithely.
As in the cold weather, when both eyes together
Used wander for faces in all sorts of places,
Por sweetheart and friend.
O maidens, grant pardon, and be not too hard on
Your own dear old petty, whose love, although
sweaty
And greasy, is yours to the end.
POLITICAL POINTS.
The hostilities commenced by the French
Against Madagascar are of course due to the neces-
sity of “ putting’ down anarchy” and* preserving
British —we mean French, Interests,
John Bright, speaking at Glasgow, the
other day, to the University students, trotted out
the old observation that the Indian Empire, which
England has Won by breaking all the Ten Com-
mandments, cannot be ruled on the principles of
the Sermon on the Mount. It is lucky for John
he Is not a New South Wales J.P., else he’d have
been called upon to resign.
A Lancefleld (Vic.) farmer complaining of
the scarcity of labour in his district told the Tariff
Commission that he “would employ Coolies, China-
men, negroes or even legislators, if he could get
them.” He seems to be in such desperate straits
that we will make him an offer. For every China-
man, Coolie, or negro ho sends us we will send him
two of our legislators, carriage paid. We will use
the material ho sends us in making laws, and he
can use what we send him in making ditches. And
we think even then that wo will get the best of the
bargain. We can’t possibly get the worst.
The following picturesque resolution was
proposed at a meeting of the Bricklayers’ Society
in Dublin some time after the Carey revelations:—
“ That wo, the bricklayers of Dublin, hate and de-
test Carey for the way he conducted the cold-
blooded murder of Lord Frederick Cavendish and
Mr. Burke; and we hereby call upon the Govern-
ment to transfer him from the witness-box and
Since him in the dock, to be hanged on the 7th of
[ay, his body to be skinned and stuffed with briars,
and hung on the gaol wall as an emblem of nation-
ality, and his rotten carcase -to be buried in the
assassins’ grave, with a stone over it and this in-
scription ‘ The Principal Assassin (and afterwards
Informer) of Lord Frederick Cavendish and Mr.
Burke, May 6, 1882.’ That wo tender our deep
sympathy to the unfortunate young men he duped
into joining the conspiracy.” This resolution,
however, was shelved in favour of a milder one.
Wo like the Irish impetuosity of this one much
bettor, however. And yet, after all, is not the
vindictive ferocity displayed in this composition
much the same kind of quality displayed by the
Joe Bradys and other brutes who carried out the
assassinations ?
Although Cabinet changes are matters for
party adjustment, yet Ministers who only so regard
them, or, on arranging them, do not take into
sufficient account the reasonable desire of the
public to have their interests primarily regarded,
may find —are almost sure to find—that though
they have settled their own places relatively to
one another, they have offended the community
by their proceedings. The recent delay In filling
up the vacancy caused by Mr. Copeland s resigna-
tion suggests the idea that individual interests,
clique Interests, party interests, were more con-
sidered than public interests —that the very last
they thought of was to get a square man into a
square hole. It is rumoured even now that the
latest announced arrangements are not to be
regarded as final —that there is a deuce of a lot of
friction still to be got rid of. We admit that a
Premier must bo more or less diplomatic; but
would advise Mr. Stuart to be leas so. If he shirks
prompt action, puts off till to-morrow what should
be done to-day, and ceases to act with the energy
of a business man, he will lose about the one grip
that he had on public confidence when he was
“sent for.”
A Mr. Tottenham, M.P. for Leitrim, has
published a statement of figures designed to show
that, in speaking: for the Irish people, the Parnell-
ites merely emulate the three tailors of Tooley-
street who signed a petition headed ‘ We, the
People of England.” Mr. Tottenham alleges that
38 Irish members who support Mr. Parnell repre-
sent constituencies having a population of 1,710,000,
of whom 63,182 are voters; while there are 68 Irish
members not supporting Mr. Parnell, who repre-
sent constituencies having a population of 3,702,000,
of whom 168,038 are electors. So that the Parnell-
ite party represent but 37 per cent, of the popula-
tion of Ireland, and 27 per cent, of the electors.
Mr. Tottenham’s figures have been accepted as
gospel by the pro-privilege newspapers in Australia
wiehout an attempt at investigation or a vestige of
corroboration. They may be accurate. But it
seems in the highest degree probable that they are
fallacious. If the propositions are as stated, the
action and attitude of Mr. Gladstone’s Government
during the last three years has been quite inexplic-
able. If only 37 per cent, of the population of
Ireland is in accord with Mr. Parnell and his
phalanx of members, it is inconceivable that Mr.
Gladstone’s Government should have considered it
requisite to convert Ireland into a vast congeries
of military posts. And another inexplicable cir-
cumstance would be the sympathy, without a
single notable exception, of every Irishman in
Australia, not being of Scotch descent, with the
Parneilite politics. If Parnellites form the minor-
ity in Ireland, how comes it that they constitute
an overwhelming majority among Irishmen in
Australia, and, probably, in America also? The
problem seems inexplicable, and, viewed by these
lights, it seems Inevitable that Mr. Tottenham’s
figures are fictions. Before, however, forming a
decided opinion, we shall we hear what the
Parnellites have to say on the subject. Having
heard both sides, we shall be in a position to form a
definite opinion.
* * *
More than half the present population of
Victoria are native-born. ..Meston, the Sacred
Ibis, will probably oppose P. A. Cooper for the
Cook (N.Q.) electorate.... Redmond is said to have
had a cool reception at Goulburn. He got a cool
£250.. ..Anti-Jewish outrages are recurring in
Russia. In the barony of Rostoff, the local mili-
tary forces are powerless to quell the disturbance
.... Thus Archibald Forbes “ Marry a limpet
with a daughter of the horse-leech, and you will
get a land-grant railway syndicate.”
* * *
The French, who had occupied the fort
and river of Hanoi, sortied therefrom, but were
driven back, General Riviere being amongst the
killed. Hanoi now closely besieged....In 1883,
there were 2,500,000,000 nobblers less drunk in Eng-
land than in 1876. There, are, however, still drank
annually in England 10,260,000,000 nobblers! This
would probably float the Austral.... .Fifty persons
arrested at Moscow as suspected Nihilists—Jury-
man Field, whose life the Fenians attempted, has
received £3000 compensation from Government .
The Duke of Connaught is being given a command
at Meerut, in Bengal. This is probably an initia-
tive towards fitting Arthur for the Governor-
Generalship. Meerut, by the way, was one of the
first places where the great mutiny broke out.
Absit omen.... Eyoub Pasha, Egyptian Minister of
the Interior, dismissed for bribery....Morning
Post says Fijian planters should have the right to
defend themselves before an impartial commission
Archbishop Oroke promises the Pope he won’t
interfere in politics.... Port-au-Prince, Hayti, being
bombarded by the rebels.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
The Salvation Army authorities having sys-
tematically devoted themselves to developing
“roaring,” are now annoyed at one Gustave
Meyer, for having in Melbourne, on Sunday last,
while “In barracks,” roared like the furiosi lion
on the Libyan shore. They gave him in charge,
and probably will not be momfled unless he (Gus-
tave) will find bail to roar in future an’ ’twere
any nightingale. Yet It does seem, rather, as
though the first lion thought the last a boro.
The Rev. John Osborne has been called
upon to answer charges of being erroneous in
doctrine in his expressed views on prayer, on con-
fession. on purgatory, on transubstantiation, and
generally with respect to the Papal system. His
accusers are the following learned and pious per-
sons:—Richard M’Ooy, T. R, Yeo, 8. E. Lees, C.
Bovls, George Read, James Welch, J. Wright, O.
W. Caldwell, John Caldwell, J. R. Linsley, James
Byrnes. Just so. “Little children, hate one
another.” (Improved version). Mr. Osborne,
writing to a Newcastle paper, Intimates his Inten-
tion of standing by his heretical utterances.
At O’Connell, on 13th May, the Rev. J. H.
Price (Anglican) made a fierce attack upon Roman
Catholicism, with direct reference to the Rev. Mr.
Osborne’s recent attempt to Inculcate Christian
brotherhood and religious charity. Plenty people
still can’t relish the gospel of love unless there a a
strong dash of hatred Infused into It—just as a
rumdrinker needs ginger in his tea. Wo have not
heard that anybody got up and indignantly left the
church Avhile Mr. Price was inculcating the neces-
sity of hating your (Roman Catholic) neighbour.
Lots of sham-Cnristians marched out with fury in
their eyes when Mr. Osborne told them to love their
(Roman Catholic) neighbour.
Amongst things not generally known in
the Genesis line, and certainly not referred to by
either Spicer or Bright, wo would mention that ten
things were created during the twilight of the
Sabbath eve, to wit: the well that followed Israel
in the wilderness, the manna, the rainbow, the
letters of the Alphabet, the stylus, the tables of
the law, the grave of Moses, the cave in which
Moses and Elijah stood, the opening of the mouth
of Balaam’s ass, and the opening of the earth to
swallow the wicked, Rav Nechemiah adds to the
above ten items of the more orthodox Talmudists,
fire and the mule. There is a line scientific ring
about all this, else we shouldn’t have mentioned it.
The recent prosecutions for blasphemy
seem to have caused some excitement even in
Presbyterian circles at Home. In Edinburgh, at a
monster meeting, the following resolution was
adopted:—“This open meeting of Edinburgh citi-
zens, without expressing any opinion as to the
content* of the Freethinker, condemns the pro-
secution of that journal as a dangerous revival of
laws framed in a spirit of persecution, and now
out of harmony with enlightened opinion, and re-
solves to take all lawful means to obtain a repeal
of the statutes relating to blasphemy; that, con-
sidering the severity of the sentences on Messrs.
Footo, Ramsey, and Kemp, the circumstances
attending their trial, and the invidious character
of prosecutions for blasphemy, this meeting
approves of a memorial being presented to the
Home Secretary praying for a remission of the
sentence.”
The voice of the “populah” having been
silenced, people desirous of Jhearing smart pulpit
utterances cannot do better than pay a visit to the
York-street Wesleyan chapel, where the Rev. Mr.
Osborne preaches. On Sunday evening week, dis-
coursing on the subject of “ Capital and Labour,”
the rev. gentleman kept his congregation in a sub-
dued titter with his anecdotes and plain speaking.
The labourer, who preaches up his muscle against
brains, he called a working bullock; while the
grinding capitalist who wanted 20 per cent, was
designated a scoundrel, and his hearers exhorted
not to compromise their respectability by walking
on the same side of the street with him. The rev.
gentleman considers wealth the result of brains,
and said that “ until the Creator made all skulls out
of one mould, and poured the same quantity, and
firecisely the same quality of brains into them, so
ong would there be rich and poor in the world.”
If the Rev. John Osborne had upheld
Roman Catholic dogmas, the M‘Coy, and the
Byrnes, and that set would have had some show of
justification for “ running him in ” for trial before
a mixed Court; but, inasmuch as In speaking of
Popish error he treated it as tenderly as Uncle
Toby spoke of the Devil, their persecution of him
resolves itself into this: “ We are not content with
you calling Popish error error; you must call it
hell-begotten, damnable, double-blanked blanked
error, or else your error is as hell-begotten, damn-
able, double-blanked blanked as that of the dod-
gasted scarlet Babylonian demi-rep’s.” One of the
rules given by John Wesley to the ministers of his
sect was: “Believe evil of no one; put the best
construction you can on everything.” John Os-
borne seems to have followed that track when he
dealt with Roman Catholicism in his now celebrated
sermon. And the track is not a bad one; it is born
of Charity, and that’s the thing, as Joaquin Miller
says—
“In men whom men condemn as ill
I find so much of goodness still;
In men whom men pronounce divine
I find so much of sin and blot,
I hesitate to draw a line
Between the two where Godhas not.” ~ : —“
Respecting Mr, Justice North’s sentence
upon Messrs. Foote and Ramsay for blasphemy, the
Rev. Canon Shuttle worth writes in Church Bells:
—“As an English clergyman who regrets most
deeply that the editor and publisher ot the Free-
thinker should have been prosecuted for blas-
phemy, and who regards the sentence of Mr.
Justice North as nothing short of a calamity, I am
anxious to state my reasons for taking this view of
a very important incident in the religious history
of the present century. If blasphemy be an offence
against God, then, surely, it is not for man to
measure its guilt, or to apportion its punishment.
His knowledge is inadequate. God only knows
what is a sin against Himself, and what degree of
punishment may be deserved in any particular
case. Justice would seem to require, then, that the
punishment be left to Him. Further, so far as
revelation is concerned, surely our Lord more than
once discountenanced the punishment, by the
Apostles or the people, of insults to Himself. In
view of this, is it not more than irreverent for man
to take God under his protection, and assume the
right of punishing an offence which He alone can
be supposed to estimate with justice ?. I note with
concern that some Christians are actually propos-
ing to take proceedings against a number of well-
known writers. Dr. Wainwright and Mr. Alexander
Scott may be mistaken and ill-advised—I venture
to think that they are, and also that the result of
their proposed action will be an entire repeal of
the blasphemy laws—but they are undoubtedly
consistent. II Mr. Foote's prosecution and punish-
ment are right and just, we are bound to mete out
the same measure to all who, whether inlterms
decent or indecent, have been guilty of the blas-
phemy known to the statute. The only essential
difference between Mr. Matthew Arnold's sarcasms
and the caricatures of Mr. Foote is one of refine-
ment. The one is polished, keen, suggestive; the
other rough, outspoken, and coarse. One wields
the rapier, the other brandishes the bludgeon. We
do not prosecute the scholarly and courteous
offender; but, if we did, no court of law would
punish him. We do prosecute the half-cultured
mpn of the people, and he is sent to prison for a
year. That is, we practically punish him, not for
blasphemy, but for lack of refinement. Such a
reading of the law, judged by the standard of com-
mon fairness, not to mention Christian charity, is
nothing short of a grave injustice.”
We read that when the Italian iron-clad
Lopanto was launched, lately, the Bishop of Leg-
horn, with some of his clergy, walked round the
deck, sprinkling holy water and reciting the folio w-
ing prayer:—“Be propitious, Lord, to our suppli-
cations, and bless this ship with Thy holy right
hand, and all who sail in her, as Thou didst deign
, to bless the ark of Noah sailing on the flood. Hold
out to her. Lord, Thy right hand, as Thou didst
hold it out to blessed Peter, and let Thy angels
from heaven guard and save her and all who sail
in her from every peril; and let Thy servants,
having overcome all adversities, reach the wished-
for port,” &o. This is a nice prayer to say over a
vessel designed for work of destruction I W hen the
decks of this ship in days to come are strewn with
mangled dead and dying, we wonder what the
Bishop will think of his blessing. In plain English,
it is simply asking the Lord to throw in His weight
on the side of the Lepanto. Oh, we are advancing
towards enlightenment I We are away beyond the
age when men could pray like Joshua for the
Almighty to smite our enemies hip and thigh—far
even beyond the time when saintly Spanish admirals
had their guns baptized after the Holy Trinity, and
the Virgin, and so on. And yet it seems a pity.
It would be so comforting to the victims to be
blown up by a consecrated torpedo, or a blessed
dynamite bomb. And, by the way, we shouldn’t be
surprised if some of the dynamite bombs which
are to destroy London and burst up Dublin, some
of these days, were really consecrated to their
cheerful purpose with as much ceremony as that
used by the Bishop of Leghorn over the Italian
man-of-war Lepanto. Anyhow, if they were, the
fact could not be more ridiculous. And all this
from the religion that was to bring peace and good-
will to men! We solemnly believe that if the
Almighty were to pay attention to the prayers that
are offered up to Him every day there would not
in fifty years bo upon the earth a soul left alive to
save or damn.
• • *
Says a Melbourne paper“ Rev. H. B.
Macartney affirms that the members of the Blue
Ribbon Army love the victims of intoxicating
drink with a deep and compassionate love, but
they hate the drink.” If this is the case, the mem-
bers of the Blue Ribbon Army hate the best part
of those they love The late Rev. E. Luckie, of
Sydney, according to the Express, “ left between
£7000 and £18,000 for the education of priests for
the archdiocese of Sydney, to be educated in All
Hallows Missionary College, Dublin. He has also
left £300 to St. Vincent’s Hospital.”.... Rev. J. B.
Laughton, a colonist of 40 years, has died at Pad-
dington, aged 69. He was moderator of the Pres-
byterian Assembly in 1870. He was an excellent
scholar and was held in high respect... .It is ex-
pected that £25,000 will be raised before the N.S.W,
Congregational Jubilee movement closes.
Mr. Kerry, who has succeeded to Lamarti-
niere’s photographic business, has produced very
flue portraits of the Reverend Mr. Spicer and the
irreverent Mr. Bright.
The San Francisco Palace of Art (late
Boyd) continues to be a fashionable resort. It is
now managed by Mr W. T. Bennett, an artist well-
known throughout Australia, and who has ob-
tained certificates of award at both Sydney and
Melbourne Exhibitions.
The Melbourne Daily Telegraph has
changed owners, and is to appear “ with a new
face. What the Melbourne Daily Telegraph
wants is not a new face, but a new head. For
years it has been mere ARQUs-and-water—holy
water. It is the pious daily of Melbourne, and is
read by every man who shaves his upper lip and
carries round the plate.
Messrs. Anthony Hordern and Co. now
imitate the renowned Mrs. Jarley, and employ a
poet. The name of Mrs. Jarley’s poet was Slum,
and he was a distinguished person. But Messrs.
Hordern and Co. have bettered on Mr. Slum. They
have issued a Queen’s Birthday Ode, by Mr. Henry
Halloran, C.M.G., set to music by Mr. Charles
Packer, and including on the back page a composi-
tion in prose on the subject of “The Palace Kid
Gloves. The whole is given away for nothing,
and is well worth it. As patrons of literature and
music, Messrs. A. Hordern and Co. deserve every
encouragement. The influence of belles-lettres
and the fine arts upon business is understood by
few. Mr. Slum put the case very happily; “Ask
the perfumersr’ cried that genius; “ask the
blacking makers; ask the hatters; ask the old
lottery-office keepers—ask any man among ’em
what iny poetry has done for him, and, mark my
words, he blesses the name of Slum I’’ Mr. Slum
also made a reference to Westminster Abbey, but
his wildest aspirations failed to suggest that in
happier times for the poetic race he would have
for successor a C.M.G.
You’ll Remember Me,
or the
LIGHTS OF OTHER DAYS.
I.
When other lamps, with other light,
Your streets and homes illume;
And quarter gas bills cease to fright,
And make poor paters fume,
Will you remember.
You remember, &c. &c. &c ?
n.
When Time shall be made endless day
(Not sandwiched by the night),
' And ghosts and burglars put away,
By this Electric Light,
Will you remember, &c. &c. &c?
xiii
Although you think me very dull.
Compared with this new spark,
The brilliant gent may make a mull,
And leave you in the dark.
Then you’ll remember, &c. &c. &c.
IV.
Perhaps we need not say adieu
(Just yet awhile at least);
This enterprise may yet burn blue,
And then— We’U have a feast.
Won’t you remember, &c. &c. &c?


ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Vary safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief;
a small bottle often cures. Ask for
and get it; spurious imitations are sometimes
offered.
Some women know what a secret power
there is in making frequent, though slight, yet
natty changes in their dress: some do not. It is a
trifle, apparently; but house life is sweetened and
rendered pleasant and attractive and refined by
just such trifles. No man is really Insensible to
these little influences; and if a woman wants to
bethought “nice”—and most do—let her be deli-
cate in all things concerning her person. A fresh
ribbon, a cunningly-twisted bit of lace, a neat
slipper, a last year’s silk dress, which to a mascu-
line eye and under the gaslight still looks neat and
graceful—surely these are things easily enough put
on, and love has been known to linger much longer
in households where such little observances were
regarded than in others where they were thought
to be of little moment.
Nowhere perhaps has the dentist’s art obtained
such high excellence as in Sydney. Certainly we
are in no sense behind any other city. Visitors to
Sydney might, to test this, visit the establishment
of Messrs. Adolphe Gabriel and Company, 18 Wyn-
yard Square, two doors from Pfahlert’s Hotel.
Here the manufacture of every essential in the
profession is carried on. At the rear of the surgery
is a compaot little factory where all the requisites
for supplying every dental defect in the human
mouth are made. Messrs. Gabriel and Co. (whose
only address is as above) are always pleased te
show their specimens ef artificial teeth to those
interested. There being two Arms of the same
name in the Square, patients will oblige by paying
particular attention to the Christian name, Adolphe,
and the number, 18, two doors from Pfahlert’s
Hotel.—An vt.
We have received the prospectus of a new
monthly journal, which is to be called Freedom.
It will be published in Brisbane principally, we
suppose, because Brisbane is nearer everlasting
freedom than we are. It is to be “fearless and
outspoken,” of course. They all start in this way;
but after a while they tone down to calling
swindling “ erratic financing,” and murder “Inju-
dicious extinction of life.” It is inevitable. The
proprietor of a new journal cannot afford to offend
an Influential section of the community. We see
also that Freedom, in “ addition to general news,”
will contain “Essays on Philosophical Subjects,
Reviews, Sketches of Eminent Men, the Latest
News of the Scientific World, Extracts from the
Book of Nature, and Articles on the Physical,
Social, and Moral Development of Man.” We have
a dim memory of seeing a prospectus something
like this before. It was when Cyril coruscated in
the heaven of literature. If the philosophical
articles in this journal are to be anything Like what
were in his, we expect to see the programme
dwindle down in the second or third number to an
article on the “ Moral Condition of the Ant,” with
an essay “ on the Influence upon Character of the
Horse Radish,” and perhaps a poem on “Pig
Iron.” T he promoters modestly remark that the
“ circulation will be large.” We dare say. It
would not surprise us it a copy reached here,
even—in a shoe-trunk.
TJUBLIC NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1884,
late 482 and 484,
REMOVED TO
418 G EORG B STREET,
vie.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
Or, TVO DOORS NORTH OF OLD SHOP
"NINEPENN’ORTH.”
Dear Readers—Flap your wings this way.
You are sure to like this. It is written with a crow-
quill on satin paper, and scented with Frangipani.
You will find it pretty and picturesque—and, above
all, funny. It will be—and thus we start one more
droll phrase with which to paralyze the public—
“altogether too nice to talk about.” By the fore
going it will be seen that there is no maudlin
modesty about us, no silly sentimentality, no
wretched reserve. As Panks was “ paid to squeeze-
and had to squeeze to pay,” so when we please to
write, we write to please. This will tell you about
modesty, eh T And while we blush, slide In, dear
printer, three stars.
* * ♦
Kent-street, Sydney. At night, too, with
a watery moon filtering through the clouds, and
shedding a flickering light upon weeping rookeries
and upon a puddled roadway. The kind of moon
that makes your soul as sad as does an Echo poem,
and throws as much light on the subject as a Rum
leader. But a fitting orb to Illumine that frowsy
thoroughfare, with its frowning alleys and its flit-
ting figures; some slinking silently by the dripping
rocks; others in deep and angry converse as they
dart along, leaving behind them the cadence of the
muttered curse and the aroma of a cruel whisky.
Kent-street! Ugly as it is, we have some love for
it. Many a time and oft has it furnished us with
material for copy before we wrote pretty poems
to pretty pictures, and came blushing weekly
on the world, wrapped in the delicate pink of
maidenhood. Well, those weren’t bad old times,
now, after all, when we wore iron-bound bluchers
and toiled on dailies. We can say this, even bloated
with opulence and pink-flushed with success as we
are. We wrote some gay old things in those days
—things which, when we think about them the
wind is moaning over the housetops, we call out
for a good book and ask not to be left alone.
Kent-street! What droll recollections does not
that grim thoroughfare conjure up ?—of horror-
hunting on cold mornings, of murder-mongering
when the bright light of day glinting In on broken
tables and on blood-stained planking made murder
the more ghastly! Kent-street! Do we not re-
member us, police-protected, climbing up a ladder
>n a hideous alley, to test the possibilities of a
uckening statement, whilst two boys lay under
sentence of death. We remember all this, and
ponder how hungry we used to be, and how often,
after along morning’s “graft,” even the humble
saveloy was only in the dimmest of dim distances 1
People used to laugh at us, then; now we laugh at
the people. Good-naturedly, of course; but we
laugh! * , •
There were some funny writers collabor-
ating with us in those days, only they didn’t know
it. We have, stamped upon our hearts, the visage
of an aquatic reporter, as indelibly as Calais was
stamped upon the heart of—not our fault
“ Bloody ” Mary. He was a writer of a gorgeous
and glittering style ; a man who deemed it his duty
when depicting the moving incidents by flood, to
sacrifice everything to the Graces of Diction. And
he did so. Who will ever forget this, his immortal
opening to a ten-pound-aside soulling-match ?
Let us have it by itself :—
“As the circumambient breezes were wafted
through the limpid rocks, the storm-bound
foam seemed to dance like a swan upon the
translucent billows.”
Yes, gay old times those were, we can tell
you ! Times that we look back upon with much
merriment; but which, perhaps, now that we have
got partially accustomed to wearing whole boots,
, ve should hardly wish to return. We have lost
the knack since then of fastening a paper collar
on to a singlet with two tin-tacks and a tenpenny
nail. When we remember how this is done,
perhaps we shall not mind going back on the staff
,)f a daily paper. It will-take us a good while to
remember it, though. We shan’t hurry.
* * *
Night, as we have said, and ourselves,
gloomy with a prophetic desolation, feebiv linger-
ing on the steps of Mann’s Hotel, an hortel-je which
is In the immediate vicinity of the Mode’ Lodging
House. We had deposited with the landlord of this
inn our valuable*. But we are bound to
admit that he didn't seem much impressed with
the intrinsic value of our property as he flung it
into the till. By way of ensnaring from him a
modicum of veneration, we told him that the
watch was an heirloom, and that the locket at-
tached to our chain had served Napoleon I. as a
tobacco-box. But the intelligence didn t move
him to any considerable extent. Not to the ex-
tent. anyhow, of causing him to make an alcoholic
suggestion. He was a pleasant party, though,
this same landlord, and on our informing him that
wo were going to invest in nine penn orth of the
“ balmy ” at the Model Lodging House, ho was
much interested. He said, “ It's a rum place, that
is I can tell you. There’s a (here he laughed) a
doctor lives there, and (here he laughed again) a
lawyer, and (here he laughed consumedly) a clergy-
man. They’re weekly boarders. The rev. gentle-
man comes for his rum reg’lar.” Then, apparently
much tickled by this reflection (as we were), he
t urned round to attend on more distinguished cus-
tomers, and we walked sadly out into the damp
and drizzling air. So we went down the street
over against the “ Model,” and looked at it. A big
red brick building, erected on that just and intelli-
<rent principle so much admired in the architecture
of the various English Unions. Every lodger
who invests ninepence in sleep gets, in that
•-■aunt structure, fully 2s, worth of ugliness
Thrown in. There is a spirit of “stout-hearted
philanthropy” about this which should at-
i ract the admiration of every social economist.
Curiously enough, the Model Lodging House, from
the outside, gives no clue to its identity. It might
he (only it is too clean) a newspaper office, or a
tobacco manufactory, or (but it is not gorgeous
enough for this) a gaol. The best compliment we
can pav to its architectural beauties is to say it
resembles a gaol. We speak this way from a
placid experience. When locked up in Darling-
hurst bv Sir William Manning for our hideous
libel on harbour picnics, we were much impressed
with the elaborate “stone Ideals” plentifully be-
sprinked on bastion and counterscarp. There is a
-olid rounding about this period that falls rhyth-
mically on the ear, though we are bound to admit
that we know no more the difference between a
bastion and a counterscarp than Alfred does of
i lie exact amount of shekels charged by the an-
cient Greeks for a free pass over the torn* Aidnorum.
\s a building, then, the Model Lodging House is
devoid even of the mildest touch of the aesthetic
wand. It is, as a structure, “rough and ready;”
and it is especially ready to collar nightly the nlne-
1 rences of the Model Lodgers.
* * *
Our one experience in the institution leads
ns to the unalterable conclusion that it has crowded
it not enthusiastic audiences nightly, and that the
receipts are such as to “ nerve the proprietors to
further endeavours.” The place consists of three
fl nrs and a basement. Every floor contains about
J r ty beds, and a lavatory. But that's nothing.
Before the Model was started we remember sleep-
ing in an establishment where there were a hun-
dred beds, two lavatories, a noble army of black
beetles, and a battalion of fleas which barked at you
If you were not civil. Before we had been over
there very long we caught one, and wishing to
preserve it, went over to Mr. Kelsey, at the pub.
we have mentioned, to ask permission to tie it up
in his yard with a horse-trace. Not having this
handy, he lent us a parrot-chain, and having fixed
things up, we left. Next morning, on going round
to take the prize up to the Museum in a meat-van,
Mr. K. received us coolly. He said that during
the night the flea had broken the parrot-ohain and
killed his bulldog.
• * •
When first the Model was opened, it was
generally considered by the directors that their
caravanserai would be the haunt of aesthetic
poverty. That tall, slim young men, in shabby
Slack suits, but with “linen of a scrupulous clean-
liness, and with large blue eyes of a translucent
quality,” would apply there nlghtlv for lodging,
and in the dim recesses of the reading-room com-
mune with the Muses, and evolve poetry for the
evening. Well, this hasn’t come off as yet in its
integrity. Parties come there and evolve poetry
right enough; but they are not either translucent-
eyed or clad in linen of a “ scrupulous cleanliness.”
And not content with evolving Sapphic odes, they
evolve mud, and pipe-ashes, and expectoration,
and other things of a more lively character. The
fact is that ever since the place was first opened,
the intrepid Seymour has been busy at work clos-
ing all the small common-lodging-houses, so that
these are now almost as rare in the city
as charity is amongst the holy army of cushion-
crushers and hymn-howlers. Thus, deprived of
their familiar rookeries, the crapule of the city has
been driven to patronise the Model Lodging House.
And so long as the riff-raff “ holds it” to the extent
of 9d. per caput, it curls up nocturnally to the
exclusion of the “ clerk out of employ,” and the
“man who has seen better days,” who are thus
relegated to the necessity of either “parting a
colonial Robert” for a “ creep in,” or of taking out
their ninepence in rum and sleeping in a boiler. It
was with an abundant knowledge of all this that
we resolved to sleep in the Model Lodging-house,
and while the event loomed dimly in the distance
we were comparatively cheerful. When the night
on which we were to take out our nine penn’orth
in Model slumber actually arrived, however, we
felt that though journalism was a profession not
without its glories, there was an occasional sting
of discomfort hanging to it—more especially when
an editorial command is backed up by a movement
of an editorial boot,
* * *
Lights glowing in the gloom, but glow-
ing only through zinc casements, speaking of
warmth and shelter, but happily silent in respect
of other things to which we shall, by and bye, ask
you to “ lend the listening ear.” A long entrance,
lit by a bright lamp; a sharp-eyed man in a pay-
place, and to the left a form embellished with a
warder. “ Can we sleep here ?” we asked of the
money-taker, “Yes.” A rapid exchange of nine-
pence for a yellow ticket like those they give you
on board the Mossman’s Bay boats. “No. 69.”
Handing this document to the warder, we
requested to know where “ 69” was, and how many
were sleeping in it. To this he replied: “You
will see when you go up. Want to go to bed now?”
“Not just now,” Then, as an after-thought, we
said: “Don’t go to any extra trouble on our
account. So long as our room companions
are either members of the polite professions,
or “ well-connected ” postal officials who have gone
wrong, we shall be satisfied. A bit of a marble
washhand-stand, a strip or two of Brussels' carpet,
and shaving-water at eight, is all we require. We
are about to visit the reading-room, at present,
but, when we feel like retiring to rest, well ring."
We shan’t forget the expression of his face any
sooner than we shall the gasp Sir Wigram Allen
gave when Toby jumped his dais. That warder
was paralysed. We looked at him fixedly. He
was a decent-looking man, with a uniform resem-
bling that of the Salvation Harmy. Indeed, in
gazing at him as we dropped into the reading-
room, we thought musingly, somehow, of Mr.
Sklmpole’s speech to Coavinses, the bailiff, at the
time of his arrest: “ We are not so prejudiced as to
suppose that, in private life, you are otherwise
than a very estimable man. with a great deal of
poetry in your nature of which you may not be
conscious.” A little later, when hiding behind the
day before yesterday’s Telegraph, we noticed
that he not only came in himself, but brought
with him another person in authority to gaze at
us, and, after a prolonged stare, both touched their
foreheads express!vely, and left. We experienced
then a gloomy feeling of unpopularity; something
like that we feel when nodding airily to a theatrical
manager after having (in the interests of public
and dramatic justice—tall, this, eh ?) made pie ”
of his show.
• •
The reading-room at the Model Lodging
House is an apartment chiciiy devoted to gloom
and bound volumes of Cornhill. It is fashioned on
the restaurant principle, long and narrow, with a
table running down the whole length of it. Instead,
however, of crazy cruets, ghostly sauce-bottles,
and careworn cutlery, the table here was strewn
with a number of papers and a good many volumes
of magazines, and literature of a kindred sort.
Our old friend, the Shroud, found a place beside
the draught board. We took it up and felt the
weight or it. That is the nearest we have got to
reading it for some time! There were only four
persons who chose to avail themselves of the
literature provided by the establishment. One
was a short man with a dark beard. He had a rest-
less black eye, and more pimples on his face than
buttons on his waistcoat. He kept on rustling the
pages of an illustrated paper, restlessly, for a few
minutes; and then turning to a respectable-looking
working man, who eat next to him, said: “A quelle
heure se couche-t-on id, nom de Dieu f” But the
respectable artlzan “didn’t live there.” All he
could do was to turn faintly to the dirty-faced
gentleman opposite, and say: “He’s a pitchln’
Porteghee," On this the company generally, by
way of aiding the unfortunate foreigner, com-
menced to talk to him in broken English at the top
of their voices. We detected the following lumin-
ous sentences: —“ Hi, John, you yabber one time
more;” “Where you bin belong?” “You bln New
Caledonia escapee?” and many more. As in our
modest way we lisp a foreign tongue or two be-
sides the language of Dubbo and the Language of
Flowers, we came to the rescue and gave him all
the information that lay in our power. He ex-
pressed himself much obliged, and told us that he
was a waiter out of place. Otherwise, he said, he
would have given us a trifle —an expression of
generous feeling, for which we duly returned our
acknowledgments.
* * *
Upstairs. A huge ward, with walls of
rough brick, ornamented, at long intervals, by
coloured prints. The light burning so dim that we
could not read all the printed names of these works
of art; but as we were shown our bed, we thought,
as our eyes pierced the gloom, we could detect
Joseph (in several colours, but chiefly blue) being
bound at the well, (notwithstanding the horse-
bean-sized tears he was shedding) by his brethren
in green. This, by the way, is a popular picture
and has, to a large extent, taken the shine out of
Judas Iscariot. Poor Judas seems quite neglected:
and it is now many months since we beheld
him in a yellow gown with vermilion locks, telling
over, in the potters’ field, the “ pieces of silver”—
each one, scale, being as large as a
porter bottle. It is hard to account for the sudden
disappearance of the late Mr. I. from the galleries
of art when ho still forms so prominent a figure in
the pages of history. This, however, is a sensitive
age; and perhaps his relations have obtained
Supreme Court injunctions and suppressed the
engravings. Very likely.
* * *
As we entered, there must have been no
less than thirty in, on, or out of bed. It being
comparatively early, but few were asleep,
the majority forming coteries on favoured
couches, though some half score or so
were either mending their clothes, or examin-
ing their boots—investigations which seemed,
by the many woe-begone expressions which in
several cases followed them, to be pregnant with
no inconsiderable disappointment. Our bed was
in the centre row, one side being against a wall.
The beds are on homely little iron couches, wider
than small coffins, but not so wide as big tea-trays.
And they are very hard; so much so, indeed, that,
so far as we can judge, there will never be any
necessity for the proprietors (consequent on the
sluggishness of their lodgers) having to adopt the
“ twopenny rope.” In a little while, we undressed
and went to bed. Bnt, hardly had we laid our head
upon the pillow, than we gave a start. We had
never known until then that we had such tremen-
dous feet! There they were, sticking toes upward,
at the end of the bed, and, reflected on the wall,
looked like huge octopi. By and bye, the lodgers be-
gan to arrive in serious earnest; and as each habitu<
went to bed he put his clothes in a tight bundle
under his pillow, and tied his boots to the head of
his bed. Many divested themselves of all their
things, and others bound about their heads cover-
ings of weird and awful appearance. One lodger,
who had gone to bed drunk, went to sleep with
his head hanging over the side of his bed and his
eyes half open. We had the happiness to be placed
near this gentleman, and we hasten (lest we forget
it) to express our thanks to him for having formed
such an amusing study.
• •
One! —and we awoke. We had been dream-
ing that we had wandered into a hive, and had had
a little difference with the queen bee. We have
had some experience in our time of what fleas can
do, having obeyed frequently the call of duty
when it pointed to the dress-circle of the old
S men’s, and to the stalls of the Opera House when
e Niggers were showing. But fpr the good,
honest nipper, the flea wi dreamt of but really
never felt in Model Lodging House takes
the cake. However, in another sense alto-
gether, we were “In the thick of it.” Near
was a half-caste who slept prone on his back, with
his mouth open, and snored like a trombone.
Then, also, in our immediate vicinity was the man
with a cough, who had on his right hand the man
who talked in his sleep. This lodger would say
suddenly, “Albury!” and then, after an awful
pause, r ‘ Who said so ?” A continuation of this
jargon brought down upon this party a storm of
invective: and had each man sufficient confidence
in his neighbour, the general indignation would
have taken the form of bluchers. Without making
more than a passing allusion to the man who
cursed, the man who groaned, and the man who
had a hiccup like a champagne-pop, we may say
that what impressed us most in the grotesque line
was the continual r islng up and moving about of
nude and semi-nude figures of surpassingly grisly
aspect, and the stealthily watchful manner in
which, as they passed, some of the occupants of
the couches opened their eyes and felt under their
pillows for their property.
• • •
There was a faint flicker of dawn—a silver-
grey mist —warring with the night shadows as we
left. And the satisfaction which we experienced
at leaving was nothing to that we felt, on return-
ing later, when we discovered that our early flight
had brought on us a strong suspicion of having
stolen the other lodgers’ clothes.
A MARTYR TO SCIENTIFIC INVESTIGATION.
INTAGLIO.
The Cap and Bells.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Room for the jester! Let him come—
A thing made up of shreds and jeers;
Who beats a ragg d, gay-riban’d drum,
And screeches through the busy years
“ Half cracked.” No merchant-prince would own
Far kinship with the purse that tells
Its owner’s tale, too widely known—
He wears the cap and bells.
Room for the jester! Let him speak 1
Sometimes strange echoes from him go,
Which start a blush upon the cheek.
And touch deep chords in hearts we know.
He lives a solitary man.
Nor sought the fate which so compels;
We only feel and only can—
He wears the cap and bells.
Room for the jester! What though poor,
Unable to withdraw the sting
Which goads him on; within our door
He enters pinioned—let him sing!
His words beguile the heavy time;
We toss our mite, and loudly swells
His voice in wild, laugh-leavened rhyme—
He wears the cap and bells.
Room for the jester! Let him yelp
Weird chantings In our ample hall;
His limbs may ache, we shall not help
One Anger’s lift if he do fall.
Born but to suffer, for he sees
Our littleness; and vainly knells
Destruction to our base degrees—
He wears the caps and bells.
Boom for the Jester! Though the fool
May scorn our ways, and find the grace
Where we have never been to school
Which lights his melancholy face,
Let him gain rest, worn, wilful slave.
When Death’s large hand his antic quells;
And this be written o’er his grave —
“He wore the cap and bells.”


READ IT ALL.
It may Save your Life.
.
hop bitters
ARE
The Purest and Best
■ . fj, >,“*■ -
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, nucha, Mandrake, and Dandelion.
“The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘ and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and in addition contafh all the best
‘and most effective curative properties
‘ of all other bitters, being' the greatest
‘ Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
, ‘ and Ufa and health restoring agent on
‘ earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Aged
and Infirm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
; Men, Labourers, Ladles, and all those
‘whoa* sedentary employments cause
‘irregularities of the Blood, Stomach.
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
‘Appetiser, Tonic, ami mild Stimulant,
these Bitters arc invaluable, being
highly surativs, tonic, and stimulating,
without intoxicating."
“No matter what your feelings or
symptoms are, or what the disease or
ailment is, uso Hon Bitters. Don’t
wait until you aro sick;, but if you only
feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
once. It may safe your life. Hun-
dreds have been saved by so doing, at
‘a trifling cost.”
Ask yenr Druggist or Physician.
“ Do not suffer yourself or let your
friends suffer, but use and urge them to
use Hop Bitters.”
“ Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
drugged, drunken nostrum, but the
i P u \.' and best Medicine ever made,
‘without!?*’ 8011 OI shoukl >'0
HOP RITTERS MANUFACTURING CO.,
Melbourne, Australia, Rochester, N. Y., U. S
A., Toronto, London, Antwerp, Paris.
G R A H A
TAILOE,
531
George St., Sydney.
Palace of Fashion
and Art.
“ The Apparel oft proclaims the Man.”
MVspStHAM recently returned from
HUSINESS TOUR
in the United States and Europe (London, Paris
Berlin, Ac.), and has arranged for the introduction
per each Mail Steamer of the
Newest, Costliest, and Most Fashionable
CLOTHING MATERIAL,
simultaneously with their introduction by the
fashionable Houses of London and Paris, Ac.
il CI ( OTI F^ G . i ? mado «P at the shortest notice bv
the Dose talent in Australia and London, and exacs
reproductions of London and Paris Fashions ii
Art and Material guaranteed.
Ballroom and Bridal Outfits, and Evening Dress
Suits, in a style unequalled or unsurpassed.
Mr. J. Graham speaks through the Press to the
gentlemen in the most distant parti of the interior.
1 rompt attention and Advice given in matter* of
Dress, Style, Ao., with instructions for measure-
ment, free of cost, and the best and most satisfac-
tory results guaranteed.
„ the protection of the Public, the nam<
GRAHAM and the figures 531 are of raammotl
dimensions—the largest on any establishment ii
all Australia.
The Fashionable World of Australia, and
the great middle class of the cities and towns as
well, are requested to continually note the an-
nouncements in this column, from
J. GRAHAM, Tailor,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
MULLINER, LEAMINGTON
O TANHOPE PHAETONS; DOG, TANDEM,
and SPORTING CARTS ; Barouches, Landaus,
Coaches, Harness, Ac., Builder to H.M. the Queen,
H.I.M. the Empress of Austria, His Grace the
Duke of Beaufort, Ac., Ac.
Orders telegraphed (30s.) and executed in seven
weeks. English prices. Coloured designs of latest
fashions kept in stock.
WILKINSON, WILLIAMS CO..
ROYLE’S C1IAMRERM,
BOND STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for Australia, New Zealand, Tasmania.
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
I We shall be glad to have this index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general.]
RACING.
Coonamble J.C June 6, 7.
Cobar J.C June 7, 8.
Mackay T.C June 13,13.
Wentworth J.C June 20, 21.
Walgett J.C June 20, 21.
Barringun J.C June 38, 29.
Barcoo R.C July 5, 6,
Clarence River J.C. Annual July 11,13.
Deniliquin Racing- Club July 18.
South Warrego J.C July 18,19.
A.J.C. Spring September 1, 4, 6, 8.
Parramatta J.C November 9.
Clarence River J.C. (Amateur)......... November 9.
AQUATICS
Champagne Cup June 16.
COURSING
Victoria Club June 20.
July 18, August 22.
South Australian Club v June 12, July 18.
Ballarat Club June 28, July 26, August 28.
N.S.W. Club June 28, July 31.
Australian dub June 14, July 27, August 89.
BICYCLING.
Sydney B.C. Sports August 4.
FOOTBALL.
South Melbourne v. Sydney Clubs, As-
sociation Ground July 7,10,12.
South Melbourne v. New South Wales,
Association Ground July 14.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Miller, the athlete, was formerly a telegraph
operator, and prior to his first American tour
taught telegraphy at Melbourne.
Brisbane (Q.) races, Queen’s Birthday. —
Maiden Plate: Gipsy King, Explorer, Medusa.
Sires’ Produce Stakes: Legrand, Capitulator,
Wheatmeat. Brisbane Cup: Mozart, Glencoe,
Legacy. Selling Plate: Purga Boy, Express, I van-
hoe. May Stakes: Goldflnder, Gipsy King, Wheat-
meat. City Handicap: Glencoe, Silverhair, Satirist.
Newcastle Races, Queen’s Birthday:—
Shorts Handicap: Melita, 1: Avalanche, 3: Levi, 3.
Scramble : Harry, 1; Little Neddy, 2. Birthday
Gift: Avalanche, 1; Loohlnvar, 2; V erdict, 3.
Hack Race: Elirt, 1; Nightshade, 2; Imperial, 3.
Amateur Welter Cup: Budelight, 1; Avalanche, 2;
Verdict, 3. Consolation Stakes: Melita, 1; Hagar,
2; Myra, 3.
After the conclusion of the Yass pigeon
handicap, Messrs. Fred. Gannon and Higgins (of
Guriy, Narrabri, the well-known steeplechase
rider) shot a match at pairs, 30 yards rise, first miss
to stand out. Mr. Higgins shot three pairs in style
without a miss. Mr. Gannon grassed two couples,
but, in the third, only killed one bird and wounded
the other, which he was unable to gather.
A modern glove contest sometimes means
a mill with box-gloves, the padding of which is
placed on the under side of the glove so that the
set-two are really gripping it in their fingers, the
backs of their hands being Hardened and kept taut
by a stiff leather covering. When these gloves are
shown to the police, it is with the idea of raising
the Impression that the padding is to cover the
knuckles.
The Queen’s Birthday meeting of the Mel-
bourne Hunt Club was held at Flemington. The
attendance was small. Hurdles: Stormbird, Merry
Maid, Wild Harry. Queen’s Birthday Stakes:
Egerton, Welcome Jack, Squireen. Open Steeple-
chase ; Vaulter, Black Jacket, Stampede. Corin-
thian Flat Race: Teddington, The Ghost, King
Charles. Selling Race : Anagram, Teddington,
Caesar. Flying Stakes: Squireen, Caesar, Sir
Charles.
It is now known for certain that one of the
sweeps advertised In the Sydney papers some
months ago, was a rank swindle. The enterprising
promoter has levanted, taking with him a good
deal of money, and as “everybody’s business is no-
body’s business,” it is by no means likely that
steps will be taken in the matter. A relative of this
individual—they wore a most affectionate and self-
sacrificing pair—is also just now in a little mess, of
which more will be heard ere long.
The Sydney Turf Club Winter meeting
was held at Randwick on Thursday last, to a fair
attendance. The ball was set rolling with the
Royal Stakes, which fell to Boniface, who just
beat The Demon by a head; Hypatia half a length
away, third. The May Stakes fell to Wallangra,
Little Star second, Manfred third. Dundreary
won the Hurdle Race, Satellite two lengths away
second, War Eagle third. For the Queen’s Birth-
day Cup Sardonyx won a great race by a length
from Morpeth, Normanby half a length away,
third. Norman won the Selling Plate, Emulation
second. Hesitation third. Lord of the Lake made
rather an easy win of the Ladies’ Bracelet—Raven
second, Gostwyck third.
Mr. Charles Brown, of Four-bob Camp
station, in the Humbug Creek district, at one
p clock on a recent morning received a telegram
to the effect that his mother was dying at Wagga.
He caught and saddled his horse, started off at two
o clock a.m., and at four p.m. on the same day
arrived at Wagga, a distance of 150 miles. This in
itself would have been a great feat if relays of
horses had been ready for him at the different
stations; but when it is remembered that no pre-
vious intimation had been given along the route,
and that at the changes the horses had to be run
up from paddocks, it makes the performance a
truly marvellous one. Mr. Brown says that he
was in the saddle only ten hours, riding seven
horses, which goes to show that lie must have
ridden the whole way at the rate of 15 miles per
hour.
The other day a movement was on foot to
send home Walter MTudoe, the Victorian swimmer,
who so far has beaten all competitors. MTndoe is
a plumber by avocation, and, as he has to cease
work whenever he trains for a match, his funds
just now don’t permit of his careering all over the
world at his own expense. When Mr. Arthur Pat-
chett Martin, who, by the way, is now known
equally well in Melbourne as a litUrateur and as a
gallant, went to London, he was asked to arranges
match if possible with Beckwith on M‘Indoe’s
behalf, but his negociatlons appear to have been
so far resultless, although Mr. Carrington, lessee of
the Aquarium, says he would like a contest to be
brought about between the pair. Just as MTndoe
stood a fair chance of being sent on his travels,
Mr. Kenney, lessee of the St. Kilda baths, stepped
forward with a challenge to MTndoe on behalf of
Kenney junior, who disputes Mac’s pretensions to
the championship of Australia, Kenney didn’t
offer to “plank” anything worth swimming for,
and he wanted MTndoe to take to the wafer at
short notice. However, his challenge has had the
perhaps desired effect of pristty well upsetting the
arrangements in train to send the champion to the
old country.
The Champion Athletic Sports meeting
came off on the Association Ground on Queen’s
Birthday with the following results: —150 Yards
Plat Race, for boys actually attending school: 8. J.
Parker, Sydney Grammar School, 1; G. Hayes,
Sydney Grammar School, 2; G. Williamson, Roy-
ston College, 3. Two Milos Maiden Bicycle Race,
handicap, open only to those who have never won
a bicycle race: S. L. Deane, 20 yards, Balmain, 1;
G. P. Cook, 40 yards, suburban, 3. One Mile Walk,
handicap, for schools: A. L. Wade, 130yards. King’s
School, 1; C. OUlflfe, 120 yards, St. Kilda College, 2;
L. Flett, 60 yards, Royston College, 3. 200 Yards
Handicap Flat Race, final heat: Daly, 8 yards, 1;
Baylis, 2 yards, 2; Hillyer, 14 yards, 3. 120 Yards
Flat Race, for boys actually attending school, final
heat: Williamson, Royston College, 1: Hayes,
Sydney Grammar School, 2; Flett, Royston College,
3. One Mile Bicycle, handicap, final heat: Paterson,
60 yards. 1; Hamilton, 110 yards, 2. Half-mile
Champion Flat Race: J. Parker, Grammar School,
1; A. H. Macarthur, S.A.A.C., 2; D. D. Middleton,
8.A.A.C., 3. One Milo Walking Handicap: James, 12
seconds, 1; Maddocks, 30 seconds, 2; Shipway,
scratch, 3. 100 Yards Champion Flat Race: Baylis,
S.A.A.C., 1; Rush, S.A.A.C., 2. 120 Yards Hurdle
Race, handicap, over ten 3 fe£t 6 inch Jumps: H. B.
Hughes, owes 10 yards, E.S.A.A.C., 1; F. G. Bussell,
6 yards, S.A.A.C., 2; C. A. Bayly, 16 yards., 3. One
Mile Flat Race, handicap: B. C. Kyngdon, 80 yards,
Royston College, 1; G. F. U. Hillyar, 45 yards,
S.A.A.C., 2. Three Miles Bicycle Race, handicap:
A. Lee, Wanderers B.C., scratch, 1; Paterson,
Sydney B.C., ISOyards, 2; Wood, Sydney B.C., 135
Sards, 3. 440 Yards Flat Race, handicap: W. C.
hish, 5 yards, S.A.A.C., 1; J. Parker, 7 yards,
Grammar School, 2. Two Miles Walking Handicap:
A. James, 27 seconds, B.S.A.A.C., 1; G. H. Hard-
wick, 40 seconds, E.S.A.A.C., 2; W. C. Shipway,
scratch, E.S.A.A.C., 3. Quarter of a mile Bicycle
Race; Lee, Wanderers, 1; Crane, Sydney, 2.
The Yass Pigeon Handicap was shot off on
Thursday and Friday, 24th and 25th May. Messrs.
R. Jenkins, G. Harcourt, and Albert Evans shot all
their birds, and agreed to divide the three prizes,
which amounted to £106 each. The match was
originally advertised to be shot under the Sydney
Gun Club rules, which allow two barrels and five
traps, but a few evenings prior to the shooting the
committee decided that only one barrel and one
trap should be used. No notification was sent to
the intending competitors, and upon the arrival of
the Sydney men in Yass they were so disgusted at
the new arrangement that they decided to with-
draw the money subscribed by them, but after
cooling down a bit they asked to be allowed to
put it in again. At the settling, on Friday
morning, which took place at Dodds’ Com-
mercial Hotel, a “ scenetook place of a slightly
Clonterflsh description. Mr. White, who was
in the chair, after continual interruptions
from a friend suffering severely from dyspepsia,
presented young Jenkins with his cheque. The
lad’s father rose to respond for him, when one of
“the boys” from Sydney deliberately dashed a
glass of champagne in his face. Whilst Mr. White
was presenting the rest of the cheques, a wealthy
“practical joker” varied the monotony of the
scene by standing on a table and pouring wine on
those around him, till he fell to the floor in com-
pany with a few dozen champagne glasses. Mr.
White, amidst great uproar, closed the meeting.
It was noticed that the noisiest in the crowd were
men of wealth and standing, and had some of the
Erizes gone to Sydney the settling might perhaps
ave been carried out in at least a decent manner.
By the way, there was one little incident during
the evening—but, considering the nature of the
proceedings, it is hardly worth mentioning. A
Sydney man saw a table laid for twenty-eight,
with a large kerosene lamp in the centre. The
temptation was too great. He seized a chair, and
raked the table fore-and-aft.
The second annual competition for prizes
took place at D’Harcourt’s Gymnasium, Sydney,
on the 23rd May, when a large attendance, includ-
ing ladies, assembled, and the German Band livened
the proceedings with music—which, by the way,
was a great deal too loud for the building. The
five medals were specially made, bearing appro-
priate designs of dumb-bells, gripped hands,
crossed swords, &c. Ex-members were eligible to
compete. Pour entries were made for the Senior
Gymnastics, but the competition was a farce, as it
was a foregone conclusion that Cansdell would get
first prize. Haege came second. For Junior
Gymnastics the contest was good, Bensusan gain-
ing premier place; and in the Boys’ Class, Leibus
was first, and Schuotte second. Professor Miller
acted as judge. The wrestling did not take place,
which was a disappointment, and the prize was
awarded to Clement. In putting the heavy dumb-
bell up with one hand, Cansdell and Clement each
put up 112 and ill lb., and Cansdell then lifted 2 lb.
more, at which Clement retired. The bell was not
actually weighed on the spot, but the above
weights are no doubt pretty close estimates.
Fencing was also omitted, owing to the weight-
lifters having occupied so much time putting
resin on their hands, and throwing “jam” around
fenerally. An entertainment of over two
ours’ duration gets tiresome to lookers-on
when the chairs are hard. By the way. a
correspondent, re the gymnastic competition,
complains to us of the unusual course adopted by
Mr. D'Harcourt in not only throwing open the lists
to ex-members, but in allowing the same men to
step in on every occasion and take away the
medals. It is discouraging to younger and rising
pupils to have to compete against a man of her-
culean physique, with whom they know they have
no possible chance; and the pot-hunting proclivi-
ties of such a prize-winner are by no means credit-
able to him. In any other athletics, such a com-
petitor would bo handicapped, so as to make a fail-
contest, if his own tact didn’t suggest a withdrawal.
But if Mr. D’Harcourt gives the medals, he can of
course give them to whom ho likes. The remedy is
with the other contestants. Don’t enter.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
The most pronounced swell at Coleraine
(Vic.) races was a man with eye-glass, out-throat
collar, kid elastics, and—a dozen valueless cheques.
He’s “ wanted.”. .Elliott, of Liverpool, and Fur-
long, of Smithfleld, run 150 yards, for £20 a side, at
Horaebush, shortly A sculling match, £50 a
side, between A. Matterson and E. Parkinson, of
Grafton, has been arranged for 13th July The
hunting season opened at Maitland the other day.
Two of the first to fall over a fence were the P.M.
and the Inspector of Police. In each case it was
the horse’s fault—“ Australasian ” athletic clubs
have been established at Oxford, Cambridge, and
Edinburgh. At Cambridge, for several years past,
the “ Australasian Scratch Fours ” have been
rowed during Michaelmas term, and the students
now propose to have an annual eight-oar race with
their fellow-countrymen at Oxford A match
for £300 a side, which had been arranged
between Mr. J. Leary’s br h Mystery and Mr.
M. Walker’s ch rn Prudence, has been de-
clared off— Ulmarra races, Thursday last.
Attendance moderate. Town Plate: Sir Edward,
Brisbane, Shamrock. Hack Race: Yanco. Mares’
Produce Stakes: Marltana, Lady Clare. Only two
started. Ulmarra Handicap: Sir Edward, Rata-
plan, Victor. Members’ Purse: Larrikin, Radical,
Steel Grey. Publicans’Purse: Sir Edward, Sham-
rock, Brisbane. Pony Race: Maude. Forced Han-
dicap ; Rataplan, Shamrock. Only two started....
The cut of Frank Hewitt’s clothes at the Yass
?igeon slaughter was the admiration of the yokels,
'he pattern was a cross between a flash or light-
ning and an exploding torpedo.... Boulia (Q.) races,
1st and 2nd September, Handicap. £100; Steeple-
chase, £60—At the Vale of Clwydd, W, Davis and
J. Wood played quoits for £15 aside. The game
was won by Wood, who scored from 27 to 41, with-
out giving his opponent a chance, Davis having
stuck at 31. Some heavy betting took place On
dit that a match, 200 yards, is arranged between
Jack Aplitt and T. Malone, a recent arrival from
the old country —Alfred Hamilton, a Victorian
sprinter, has made his appearance at Forbes. In
two consecutive races on the same day with
Edmund Conelly, he failed to start, and Conelly
had a canter over for the stakes. Not satisfied,
Hamilton had another spin with Conelly. Near
the winning-post, and when to all appearances
a victor, the former’s ill-luck stuck to him,
and he slipped and fell, allowing his oppon-
ent again to trot in an easy winner New-
combe won the “ Sheffield Handicap ” at Blay-
ney on Queen’s Birthday. The jumping of
Ashworth, who pulled off the hurdle race, was the
feature of the day’s sport ...Mr. F. W. Baylis,
who won the champion 100-yards race at' the
Amateur meeting held on the Association Ground,
covered the distance in 101-5 sec. He is 5 feet 8
inches high, and weighs lOst. 61bs. At last Oxford-
Cambridge University Sports. W. C. Morse, the
winner, did the 100 yards in 10 2-5 sec. Mr. Baylis
ran 100 yards at the E.S.A.C. Sports, 12th May, in
101-5 sec.
* * *
Mr. Labouchere, in the House of Commons
recently, demurred to an item in the estimates of
£14ti0 for keeping in repair the house of the gentle-
man paid to look after the Hampton Court year-
lings. He noticed these yearlings were sold an-
nually, but could never And out what became of
the money. He urged that as the Royal Stud was
a loss to the country it ought to be done away with
—there was no reason whatever why the Queen
shouid carry on a speculation in horse-breeding...
General Wolseleyis a one-eyed man. If he were
only bow-legged as well he might readily be
mistaken for a bicycle rider... .The English Derby
was run at Epsom on May 23, with the following
result:—Sir F. Johnstone’s ch c St. Blaise, Lord
Ellesmere’s b c Highland Chief, Lord Falmouth’s
bror be Galliard....Davis, the English leviathan
bookmaker, established his reputation by laying
£12,000 to £1000 in a single bet against The Cur, in
the Cesarewitch of 1848. The Cur won. The day
after the race the bookmaker accosted his lord-
ship pleasantly, and, remarking that such trans-
actions were best settled promptly in cash, handed
him twelve notes for £1000 each.
THE TRYST IN G PLACE.
A Bitter Disappointment.


F
URNITURE SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Springs treetg, Sydney.
ALL FURNITURE. HATSTANDS, and
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
T IBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
JJ TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb, Furniture Importers, Spring and
O’Connell streets, Sydney.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, in EXQUISITE
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT, Just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb. i
TVrOVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
131 SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
0 ’ Connell-stroet.
A FTERNOON TEA TABLES, elegant and Inex
pensive. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell-street.
MARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &o.
BILLIARD TABLES, full size, with appurten-
ances ; also smaller Convertible Tables, 7 and
8 feet—may bo used as dining tables. Now on view,
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, Importers, Spring
and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
IA BDSTEADS, all sizes, at lowest prices. BRAD-
J3 LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Importers,
O Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wadrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
chaIrs - The lot for £8. BRADLEY,
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
HEAP FURNITURE.-Whatnots, from 20s ;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; Open Book-
cases, from 35s ; Chests Drawers, from 40s ; Wash-
stands, from KJs 6d ; Tables, from 7s 6d ; Wardrobes,
from 80s ; Dining Tables, from 20s ; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 25s; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s ; Kitchen Tables from
10s Ctothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
| 85s-
JBRADLEY,
NEWTON,
Sand LAMB,
SYDNEY.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold with Side
Shelves, 86s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
FURNITURE. —The Largest Stock in the
Colony. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell-street.
RAWING-ROOM CABINETS—Early English,
Anglo-Japanese, and Chippendale designs.
Just opened. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
streets.
INING-RO OM FURNITURE.—Magnificent
Suites in Walnut Oak, and Mahogany. Side-
boards, Dinner Waggons, &c., to match. BllAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O’Connell streets.
Framework for drawing and dining
ROOM FURNITURE, Handsome and Massive,
in Oak, Walnut and Mahogany. The VERY BEST
REAL MOROCCO SKINS, and Materials for up-
holstery. Open to inspection. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB.
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass ;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
B
BDDING.—All descriptions at lowest rates.
• BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell-street.
ASHSTANDS, with marble, 25s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
B 1
W
G
ARDEN SEATS and Verandah Chairs.—Brad-
ley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment, Just opened; many quite new
designs.
CCASIONAL CHAIRS in VERY GREAT
Variety, Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
FFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
IRON SAFES, various sizes. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
TCE
JL a
TON,
CB CHESTS, all sizes, very superior make. Ex-
amine before purchasing. BRADLEY, NEW-
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
S'
TBINWAY NEW YORK PIANOS, the FINEST
in the world. A SHIPMENT Just landed.
23
GUINEA PIANO, WARRANTED sound
and durable, in solid walnut case ; specially
adapted for beginners or schools.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Q/"\GUINEA PIANO, brilliant toned, full com-
OU pass, all the latest improvements, in hand-
some walnut case ; WARRANTED SOUND and
DURABLE ; BEST VALUE in the trade.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
T I PR’S CELEBRATED P I ANO si
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
nave received
another LARGE SHIPMENT
of
R. LIPP and SONS’ celebrated PIANOFORTES
direct from the Makers, comprising TALL
GRANDS, LITTLE UPRIGHT, GRANDS, SA-
LOON GRANDS, VERY HANDSOME and of the
HIGHEST CLASS FINISH,
in
WALNUT and BLACK GOLD.
WE HAVE NOW THE LARGEST STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA OP
LIPP’S PIANOS
TO SELECT PROM.
WE INVITE INSPECTION.
FOR PRIVATE SALE AT EXTREMELY LOW
PRICES.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Pianoforte Importers,
O’Connell and Spring streets.
SOCIAL.
His Excellency Lord Loftus held a Levee
at Government House on Friday afternoon, when
a fair number paid respect to Her Majesty’s
representative; some in legal, naval, military*
consular and other official robes, but mostly
in the orthodox “dress” costume. About
seventy gentlemen had the entnSe, and about
250 others passed through the reception-room
afterwards. The monotonous ceremony was con-
cluded in little over half an hour. On the same
evening, the usual annual dinner of resident Con-
suls of Sydney took place at the City Catering
Company’s rooms, when fourteen consuls were
present in official uniforms, and about a dozen in-
vited guests of distinction. The toast list included
the Queen, the Potentates represented, the Gover-
nor, and the Guests, and speeches were brief.
• . •
Though dull, there was a good day at Rand-
wick on the holiday. Some of the dresses were of
exceptional interest. An elderly lady wore a most
excellent purple velvet of groat richness, bonnet of
same with pale blue feather. A North Shore bru-
nette wore blue skirt with row of broad white lace,
and brown check panier bodice, fashionable. A most
peculiar combination of colours was displayed by a
pronounced blonde : sago green cashmere bodice
and skirt, tablier of greenish brown and
pink cavalier hat. A ruby satin under a ficelle
parasol was splendid. Mrs. Roberts wore a beauti-
ful olive broche velvet and pleated satin skirt,
elaborately made and trimmed. Grey silk body
and black corded skirt, essence of neatness. Most
conspicuous was the splendid costume of Mrs.
Moulton : a check silk fabric combining dark and
light shades of fraise ecrasse, or crushed strawberry,
made jacket shape, with long coat tails caught
back with immense solid silver horseshoes, two
smaller ones acting as buttons at back of waist;
the skirt showed alternate stripes of the /raise
check and plain maroon ; parasol and hat to match
with silver horseshoes, a girl’s pretty costume was
overskirt of white cashmere, or nun’s veiling,
looped up at one side, and short underskirt of rich
myrtle green velvet: bow behind, hat and hose all
matching the velvet in colour. A silver grey dress
with black velvet tablier, and steely beaded bonnet,
looked effective. Slate silk and purple broche was
another combination that was neat but not gaudy.
A dress of all red cloth seemed to have a good deal
of colour in it. The darkest brown heavy velvet
under a sealskin mantle looked rich and warm,
closefitting bonnet to match. Very nice was a
dress of croine blue ; velvet body edged round the
lower circumference with dangling pompons ;
breast let in of watered moiri!, and skirt of the
same. Two ladies wore beautiful dark emerald
green, and claret velvet and satin, respectively,
with little green Alpine straw bonnets trimmed to
suit. Two Palmer-street young ladies were some-
what differently similar; both wearing Scotch plaid
skirts of pretty pattern, but one favouring green
velvet for bodice, the other brown velvet, plush
hats according to velvet in dress ; and they were
nice. A Cleveland-street married lady displayed a
tine indigo satin and broche of Persian pattern. Mrs.
M’Carthy wore the most brilliant colours seen ;
bodice of maroon broche, edged with small tabs all
round ; silk skirt of the richest glowing orange,
warmed with a suggestion of red—the hues seen in
a beautiful golden sunset; ruche of maroon round
the skirt. Miss Bennett shone in a burgundy
ottoman satin, bodice and square tabs round skirt
being piped with cerise, with cerise sash, and hat
to match, made wonderfully gay with feathers and
foliage. Mrs. Purves graced a pretty green, having
fine golden lines laterally woven through it, bouf-
fant in shape and beautifully made. Extremely
long coats were worn by some of the men ; and a
large number of junior clerks wore clothes with
the tailor’s foldmarks stiil in them. It places a
young man at a disadvantage to look so new ; but
he m usi dress sumptuously when he goes in the
stand, you know, and carry the air of a man with
an immense “book.”
* * *
Purple was the prevailing colour at the
sports on Saturday. Nearly all who were present
wore it —on their faces. But the biting wind didn’t
affect everyone alike ; while the majority were
purple, there were a few of the gentler sex who
maintained a bright carmine on their tender cheeks
which was as phenomenal as it was beautiful. The
wind blew, and blew, and blew, but never a sign of
blue tinged that unalterable carmine. How this
was, it is impossible to guess ; he would be a bold
man who would dure even to try and investigate
the mystery. Yet, notwithstanding the bitter
weather, there were many attractive faces, and the
study of apparel seemed to bo of absorbing interest
to those who engaged in it. Miss O’Connor looked
like a sovereign new from the mint, in a gold satin:
this is not “ mint ” as a joke. Two seasonable
dresses were rich brown velvets, with hip paniers
of bronze brocluS and hats trimmed with velvet
and feathers to match. Two pretty sisters, petite
enough to be almost blown away, wore black
velvet closely fitting their slender forms, with
velvet hats and white lace collars, and looked
dangerously dainty. Miss A. Maddock was robed in
myrtle green velvet, a most handsome dress ; Miss
E. Maddock in black broche and satin, touched off
here and there and on the bonnet with bright sorrel
trimming. Another quite handsome custome was a
figured black velvet jacket, thickly hung with
pompons, rich broche dress below, with light pink
bonnet, covered with silver beads. It was worn by
Mrs. Jus. Watson, whose two little girls wore
daintily designed little costumes of claret velvet
and jockey caps. Two young ladies wore body
dresses of check silk of verdigris green, a broad
ruche of same running round the indigo satin
skirts. Miss Smith was an extremely ornamental
young lady in bright green velvet bodice, bunched
satin skirt of similiar hue, poke hat, white lace
collar and scarlet flowers. There I Miss Watson
wore black cloth and broche, lined with pink. Mrs.
S. Poolman’s dress was one of the finest observed,
pf ruby velvet top and corded silk skirt, puffed
arms combining the two materials, close fitting
ponnet en suite, and laving trimmings of passe-
menterie. Her two eldest daughters wore black
V' cl vet dresses trimmed with fur, large black plush
nits with white plumes, and very large bouquets
W; real flowers and maidenhair on the left shoulder,
which gave the finish to two charming pictures.
Bright maroon satin with lace trimming and
collar suited a recent bride ; and a nice grey habit
and black cavalier chapeau suited equally a pro-
spective one. A rare kind of dress was of leaf
green, the skirt being alternate stripes of the body
colour, and of rows of embossed whitey-grcou
flowers. It was interesting, and rather oscar. Miss
lienwick displayed an excellent dross of myrtle
green velvet and satin, with moonlight fringe ;
and Miss A. Kenwick favoured the same colour and
material, with a Rubens hat, which was eminently
suited to her. Miss Marie St. Clair made plentiful
use of black lace and a handsome sealbrown
velvet jacket, fur - trimmed. Very rich, in-
deed, were a heavy mossgreen velvet dress
and princess bonnet, both enlivened with ilame-
hued satin bows, and a badge of the brilliant
parti-coloured ribbon over the forehead. It was a
bold idea, and successful. Another velvet was of
a blue rarely seen, double-breasted rows of blue
buttons, sash and hat trimming of brighter blue
over a pleasing face. Mrs. Steel was fortified
against the “ cauld blast" by a long, warm sealskin
cloak of considerable value. With her for a time
were Mrs. O. Jones, In a flowered silver-fawn
polonaise and green underskirt; and, in quiet grey
cloth and brown lace, handsome Miss Parker. The
perfection of taste and of fit was a black gros-
graln, under a maroon hat and pink feather. And
perfectly healthy and happy and sparkling seemed
Miss Day, in all black, with on© of the popular
tippets. Escorted by a very clever little oi'icketor,
came a slim Darlington girl, whose graceful figure
was set off with a neat navy blue tunic, the skirt
being alternate stripes of blue and autumn brown.
Another jimp young lady, with sunrise hair, who
was tacking about in the gusty wind all the after-
noon, was equally neat in a bluey-brown tartan
skirt, and brown cloth jacket with military cording
looped on the breast buttons. Miss Broomfield
was noticeable for the absolute simplicity of her
attire, which consisted of a faultlessly made rifle-
green dress, with just the sparest of braid trim-
ming to mxitch, and long Indian red gloves. A
capital plan was introduced of ringing a bell
directly the leading man in each race entered on
his last lap; which saved a good deal of uncer-
tainty. The great excitement of the day was the
race for the five-mile elub championship, when,
after racing together the whole time at a pace
that left every other competitor out of the run-
ning, Moyse and Barnet started their last (20th) lap
on even terms. Barnet, by a line spurt, got a
length lead, and seemed winning, when, fifty yards
from the tape, he came down a teiTiflc cropper on
the turf, and lost the prize. The City Band played.
A photo of some eighty bicyclists, ranged in a line
with their machines, was taken on the ground;
and afterwards they all went round in grand pro-
cession. Full supply of tramcars outside at the
end.
« • •
Not so many went to the Champion
Amateur Athletic Sports on Queen’s Birthday, as
the fine programme and magnificent prizes should
have attracted. An eaxdior start than usual was
made, at half-past twelve, and luncheon was pro-
vided under the stand at half-past one. Most people
came later on in the day. Three grey cloth dresses,
with bands of greenish-brown check round the
hips, fringed at the edge, puffed shoulders, and
white collar pieces, were observable. A violet
velvet was violently visible. A Redfern young
lady was pretty in her demure grey polonaise and
black underskirt; and the sister of a clipper pedes-
trian neat in black cashmere, with fleecy cloud
of lace under the chin, a very light blonde wore
light brown check, with blight green satin breast
and long wedges of satin let in the skirt. Miss
Philips graced a pretty myrtle green dress of
velvet and satin combined, with rows of Aesthetic
flowers embossed on it, and bonnet to harmonise.
Miss Gibson was extremely pretty in brown
cashmere panier bodice, and ruche of the same
round the velvet skix-t, broad lace collar. Another
extremely pretty person was the young man in a
grey suit who displayed a bright strawberry
coloured waistcoat. Miss Coombe wore a black
costume of cloth, with moirt bodice and paniers,
which was as neat as could be. Miss Burke looked
picturesque in navy blue cloth trimmed with
purplish plaid, and a romantic blue hat. A remark-
ably pretty girl was in blue black velvet top with
under skirt of grey, straw hat and white feather.
That is very nearly all. All was over by live o’clock,
and the “ Clasping Hands ” waltz of the City Band
was alone worth the gate-money.
• « t
If anything could induce us to contem-
plate resignedly the great development of the last
fashionable innovation, it would be to see it worn
by such charming girls as those who wore it on
Saturday at the sports. But we’d like to know if
the lawn is going to be enlarged. For, notwith-
standing that the “Johnnies,” by wearing the
tightest of trousers, now take up very little space,
it will be absolutely necessary, if the ladies insist
on dressing with such aggravating expensiveness,
to have more room. Unless something is done,
there will be terrible accidents, We shudder to
think what might happen if some careless young
man, off his guard for a moment, should inadver-
tently run against one cf those jibboom-llke ap-
pendages, Probably the arrangement that fires
Zazel out of the cannon would be nothing to it,
for that young person, being a female, is no doubt
used to steel springs. But young men are not —at
least, we suppose not; and the rebound might be
too much for the “Johnny”’ So we hope the lawn
will be enlarged; because if these mysterious me-
chanisms are not allowed room to work, there’s
sure to be something fatal happen,
« * *
At a certain ancient township, there has
been great fun. Lovely woman, of course. Some
time ago, he was engaged to be married to a Sydney
belle, but the match was snapped. But he liked so
much what he’d seen of love-making that he
thought he’d do a little more; and in a short while
his wounded heart was healed by taking to himself
another fiancee, from a farm. The crisis ap-
proached, house, furniture, wedding dress and even
cake all ready, when, miserere! the Sydney girl again
appeared on the scene, and told her successor that
to proceed with the ceremony would ensure an im-
mediate action for breach of promise. Weil, bref,
he went back to the old love 1 It was when the
deserted maiden’s ma had heard how matters stood,
that the fun commenced, and what the interested
inhabitants of that ancient township saw was a
prospective mother-in-law holding a recusant lover
with the grip of a tigress, while a damaged daughter
pitched into him heartily from behind with an
umbrella : a mad rush for the door, a chase up the
street, a young lady beating the fugitive wildly
with the used-up umbrella, and the maternal
relative, outpaced, calling out to her active and
more athletic daughter to “tear his eyes out!”—
and then all disappeared in the scrub. Gentleness
and love might have won the errant bridegroom
back at the eleventh hour ; but that umbrella
urged him to desperation, and he married the first
fair enslaver. And now the other insists on some-
thing under a million to soothe her wounded
heart.
• • •
A hundred guests assembled in the Protes-
tant Hall on Monday night, when Miss Lily Garton
held her birthday party. There were plenty of
dancers on the floor ; delicacies on the tables ; and
joy in all the juvenile faces. Highland costumes
were conspicuous, and the bray of the bagpipes ;
and the evening dresses of the ladies were bright
and spicy. We like to hughes all the jokes we can
get hold of. Between the dances, were songs and
recitations ; the “ Maitland Nightingale ” was
sweetly vocalistic, and Miss Lily herself, setat 12,
proved equally clever at the three accomplish-
ments, dancing, singing, and piano-playing. Fun
commenced early, and finished about midnight, all
well.
• • •
A large number of gentlemen gave a com-
plimentary banquet in Redfern Town Hall to Mr.
J ohn Cobb, locomotive foreman of the railways,
prior to his departure home. Messrs Wright and
Sutherland, M’s.P., were present, and senior-driver
Mr. E. Harrison was chairman. The only presenta-
tion was an address; as it seems that though
Ministers retiring from work may receive testi-
monials, the regulations forbid a mechanic who
takes a holiday from receiving a few sovs. Mr.
Cobb was highly spoken of, and a steam launch full
of friends saw him down the harbour on Tuesday.
Sometimes humdrum family-life is broken
into by a wave of domestic excitement, which,
though perhaps mere conventionalism as regards
broken crockery, may stir wild thrills of excite-
ment when the factor is a stolen marriage. Such
an exhilarating episode Iras been calling out un-
suspected powers of conversation in many a house
not very tar from Adelaide for the last week or
two. The fair one belonged to a highly respectable
circle of daughters, whose father is a pleasant
Irish civll engineer. One of the sons has graduated
as a lawyer—a quiet, cobwebby lawyer, who pre-
pares things for his clients in the orthodox so-
much-per-folio mode. Naturally, lawyers are not
scarce at that civil engineer’s table. Among these
came latterly one Slygleton— let us call him—
who having, the doctors said* sustained some
damage to his lungs, had been ordered out
to Australia In search of better health. Sly-
gleton saw and loved the fair Amy. The fair
Amy saw and loved Slygleton. They became en-
gaged. Papa thought that as the fair Amy seemed
bent upon It, and under-age girls are wilful things,
an engagement might act as a safe stopgap until
Slygleton’s lungs got mended or went altogether.
They next wanted to be married. Papa objected
llrmly but wlllly —“See here, Slygleton, wait till
you’ve done something—till you’ve worked up a
business, and stand decently well In the profession.”
Whenever was a simple-minded civil engineer a
match for a solicitor ? Slygleton called one morn-
ing, as he said, to take the fair Amy “to see
‘Black Thursday, er Hamilton’s Mistake’—the
famous picture, you know.” Papa was away in the
country; Mama could offer no objection to art cul-
ture ; so they went. So they went—to Ohrist-church,
North Adelaide, where Archdeacon Marryat
married them. Did they bolt ? Not they. Amy
returned homo with her marriage certilicate in
her pocket. Slygleton advertised for furnished
lodgings. One morning, at breakfast, Slygleton
having obtained the lodgings, Amy remarked, in a
casual kind of way, whue mama poured out
another cup of tea, “ Belinda can have my room
now, and I shan’t visit with you to-day, mama.”
Anger gathered on the maternal countenance, and
the paternal features grew clouded or mystified.
But the artless child continued coolly: “ Mr. Slygle-
ton and myself were married the other day at
Christchurch by the Archdeacon. We have taken
furnished lodgings.” And, while mama gasped
and papa swore, Amy produced her marriage-lines
and calmly handed them round for inspection.
This is the last genuine yarn of true love known to
us. Slygleton probably owns more than two
lungs now, and his father-in-law is on bad terms
with a certain Archdeacon.
* * *
The citizens of Auckland gave a ball to Sir
William, Lady, and Miss Jervois lately. The
Diamond sailors decorated the hall, and of course
the officers were there to dance in it afterwards.
It was a large affair, the Hon. Mrs. Townshend
taking the honour of belle. Lady Jervois wore
Elum silk, with front of heliotrope satin. A return
all by the Governor is spoken of.
* * •
The date of the Mercantile Rowing Club
ball has been altered one day. It takes place in
the Exhibition on 31a t June.
• * •
We don’t want people to forget that the
first annual ball of the Eastern Suburbs Amateur
Athletic Club takes place to-morrow, Friday.
Everything has been carefully arranged, good
music engaged, and the floor of Nlthsdale is ac-
knowledged the best in Sydney., It will be worth
going to, if only to see if Shipway can dance as well
as he walks. Fancy dress will be worn, but evening
costume is optional, if preferred.
• • •
To-morrow night, the 1st June, the North
Shore Rowing Club start the season’s dissipation
with their annual ball in the Town Hall. A length
ahead of Glebe this year. There will be plenty of
room to dance, and corridors for sentimental pur-
poses. Mr. Robert Little, who was so efficient last
year, is again the secretary ; and, as the poet says,
“ we want but Little here below,” &c., —the thing
is bound to gee.
• • •
A most pleasant party was held at “Alpine
House,” Maequarie-street, last week. Amateurs
played “ Withered Leaves ” In excellent style, the
ladies deserving crowns of roses, especially Stella,
who of course was a star, and a married lady who
played most efficiently. A musical solo, songs,
and dancing followed. Balmain belles in force :
two divine waltzers from St. Andrew’s-street, the
younger in black velvet and blue silk, and the elder
in white corded silk and cashmere atrociously
pretty. A brunette with lovely eyes, in white
satin with cardinal shoulder knots and shoes,
and a merry maid in mournful black, were
particularly noticeable. A captain’s wife wore
black silk and old gold; and Mrs. Qwist the hostess
wore black silk, and a bright look which made her
visitors quite at home. The supper scene, with
jingling glasses, faces, and dresses, was altogether
d to grand duchess.
* * *
Notwithstanding the horrid weather, the
Yass Private Subscription ball on the 35th was well
Eatronised, and a capital affair. Visitors were from
ydney, Goulburn, and many places up and down
the line, besides the local guests. About eighty
were present, at the Mechanics’ Institute. Dresses
were about as usual, and dances varied, as they
always do ; but even the metropolis itself could
scarcely furnish daintier dancers than some of those
stylish steppers from the environs of Yass. Two
sisters from Rathlaba were simply superb in foatly
grace. Another beautiful dancer came from
Cunningham Plains. A Goulburn brunette car-
ried the palm as belle for her beauty and
grace; while Bhantalla produced a lady in
white cashmere and swansdown, whose ad-
mirers are not likely to forget “the light that
lies in woman’s eyes.” Very pretty was the
younger daughter from The Cottage, who made her
in white muslin and pearls. The daughter
of a late local bank manager and the sister of the
present one were genial girls, with manners as
lively as their dancing was light. So thoroughly
enjoyable was the ball that a supplementary party
was held next night, and the festivities of gaiety
and glitter will long be held in memory by the girls
of Yass.
* * *
A very enjoyable evening was spent on
Monday last, at Madame Charbonnet-Kellerman's
“At Home.” The fair hostess was arrayed In a
robe of white satin trimmed with swansdown and
black Spanish lace, the contrast being splendid.
The youngest dark-eyed daughter from “ Goldah ”
looked exceedingly pretty and stylish in the palest
shade of pink and cream lace, bodice cut low, with
large cream rose and pearls; while her sister, in a
costume of same, also looked very nice. A young
lady from Phillip-street looked charming in pale
blue. From Woollahra came an eldest daughter in
rose-pink; while a petite brunette from victorla-
street looked her best in white and cardinal sash.
Rarely is such good waltzing seen as was on this
occasion. At 13 o’clock “ God Save the Queen ”
was played, after which the guests departed.
• • •
The Sydney Mercantile Provident Associa-
tion had a very pleasant entertainment on Wed-
nesday evening week. The first part consisted of an
amateur concert. A piano solo by Miss Clara
Wholmes was well played, and the violin solo by a
gentleman could be listened to without the
audience experiencing the goose-flesh Induced by
the performances ol amateur fiddlers. After
refreshments, the hall was cleared for dancing.
Pretty dresses were in the minority. The follow-
ing were the most noticeable: White merino and
pink satin scarf, and wreath of silver flowers in
the hair; cream merino, pale blue satin, wreath of
forget-me-nots in the hair, and over the breast;
black satin, large red bow, black spangled lace on
hair and neck, worn by the young lady of Niths-
dale; cream satin, red and white flowers in the:
hair, worn by a petite Jewess; cream flounce,
merino skirt, and black velvet top, pearls in the
hair; black muslin with white lace, cardinal,bows;
cream pleated skirt, and pale blue sleeves.
4
(For continuation of Social see next page.)


XXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXX
XXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXX
AA. ■ \X
XX TTORDERN’S, PITT-ST11EET. XX
AA i i XX
XX SPECIAL NOTICE. XX
XX The result of a telegram to our Mr. E. XX
XX C. Hordern is, that we are now showing XX
XX Three Cases of the most stylish Checks XX
XX and Plaids shown this season, at Is per XX
XX yard, just opened this day. XX
XX XX
XX Come and see these Novelties. XX
XX XX
XX HORDERN’S. PITT-STREET. XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
DEPARTMENT.
HORDERN BROTHERS, of Pltt-
street (only),
instructed their Mr. E. C. HORDERN,
now on the Continent, to visit the best
manufactories in France, Belgium, Ger-
many, and England, the result of which
is the shipments of goods now opening,
excelling in value and finish anything
hitherto shown in the colony of New
South Wales.
HORDERN BROTHERS have already
the name of being, second to none for
Mourning Goods in ail branches, a name
gamed by close study and attention,
combined with sterling value; but
being determined to make this MOURN-
ING DEPARTMENT the FIRST IN
SYDNEY, they gave the above instruc-
tions, and have also added the efficient
assistance of their head order man, who
will at once forward patterns of all
mourning goods required, with circulars
containing F ULL IN STR UCTIONS FOR
SELF-MEASUREMENT, In order that
bereaved ladies may not in their grief
have even the trouble to shop.
Your attention is respectfully re-
Bjd to the following:—
real French Cashmeres, very
wide, Is 9d, all wool, Lyons
Black ditto ditto Cashmeres, ditto, Is
lid to 5s 6d
Black German Cashmeres, ditto, Is lid
to 6s 6d
Black Merinos, Merinos, Merinos, from
Belgium, France, and Germany, Is
9d to 5s tid
Black Bradford Cashmere, very wide. Is,
Is 3d, and Is 4I£d
Black Lustres and Real Alpacas, from
NORWICH, ENGLAND.
Black Parramattas
Black Parramatta Cloth
Black Ottoman Cord
Black Nun’s Cloth Satin de Lyons
Black Nun’s veiling
Black Cashmere Serges
Black Balmoral Cloths Black T.ffimqa
Black Crape Cloth
Black Persian Cord
Black Poplins
Black Russell Cord
Black Costume Cloths
Black Satin Cloths.
Black Italian Cloths, in all widths.
Black Grenadines, plain, figured,
and striped.
CRAPES, CRAPES, CRAPES,
in all widths,
from Grout and Co. and Oourthauld & Co.
Always a good variety of
HALF-MOURNING GOODS.
MOURNING SILKS.
MOURNING MILLINERY,
MOURNING MANTLES.
MOURNING UMBRELLAS and
PARACHUTES,
MOURNING HANDERCHIEFS, COL-
LARS, TIES, RIBBONS, LACES,
FALLS HOISEItY.
In a word, the most complete stock of
Mourning Goods in the Australian
colonies.
All selected in the best markets in the
old countries by our Mr. E. C.
HORDERN.
HORDERN BROTHERS’
MOURNING WAREHOUSE.
.209, 211, &c., &c.,
PITT-STREET (ONLY).
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
AND BOYS’ CLOTHING. XX
— Ihis is the Department in which XX
we shine. We have an enormous stock XX
of every conceivable article of men’s
and boys’ attire.
Thfi Knonin l linoi
The special lines for to-day are—
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
ii
XX
XX Men’s shirts,white,
XX 2s lid
Men’s hats, 2s 6d
Men’s trousers, Is
lid
Men’s trousers and
vests, 14s 6d
Men’s suits, 20s
Boys’ knicker suits,
4s lid
Boys’ hats, is
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Boys’ overcoats, any XI
Pi'ice XI
Boys’ collars, 6d XX
„ XX
Youths’ trousers, 4s XI
6d. XI
— X}
Don’t forget us when you want XX
Men’s and Boys’ Suits, Hats, Mercery XI
Don t forgot us when you want XX
Overcoats, Clothes to Order, Bags, XI
Don t forget us when you want X>
- Rugs for travelling. y\
XX HORDERNS BROTHERS’, Pitt-stroct, X
is the place for you.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
street, expect you
HORDERN BROTHERS,
street, are ready for you
HORDERN BROTHERS, 211,
street, will serve you well
To-day. To-day.
211,
211,
XX
y v
Pitt- XX
_ XX
Pitt- XX
XX
Pitt- XX
XX
XX
X3i
Irish Linens, XX
Bon- XX
w Blankets, Sheetings,
XX Silks, Velvets, Dresses, Merinos., Bon- X
XX nets, Hats, Stays, Mantles, Parachutes, X:
vv fi Unc ? Bags. Soaps, Scents, Oombs,
yy Brushes, Buttons, Cottons, Hosiery, XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
uouvo, jjuauua, ooicons, Hosiery,
Gloves, Ribbons, Laces, Collars, Cufts,
Handkerchiefs, Wools, Carpets, Oil-
cloth, everything and anything a
draper ought to sell.
Remember our address, and do not be
misled— •
HORDERN BROTHERS,
211, PITT-STREET (ONLY),
Get out of the tram at King-street.
N.B.—Country orders have our best
attention.
XI
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Country residents, write for patterns XI
w of a 2y thln ¥- and wo will send them to XI
XX you free.—H.B. XI
XX Y)
XXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXI
XXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXI
The high school, hobart, Tasmania
Rector: The Rev. R. D. Pouletfc-Harris, M.A..
trinity College, Cambridge. Headmaster: Mr. Ed,
E dm°nd8°n, Christ Church, Oxford. The salubrity
ot the Tasmanian climate, combined with the higli
standard maintained by the Council ot Education,
has brought the collegiate advantage® of the colony
prominently under the notice of Australian
parents. The High School occupies the head place
in the degree lists. It surpasses all colonial educa-
tional establishments in the healthin ess and beauty
of its situation, which is upon a slope bordering
the Queen’s Domain, and in the vicinity of the
Cricket Ground and Saltwater Baths. The T.S.N.
Co. issue return tickets to scholars at single fares,
Prospectus and terms may be ob tained from Mr.
JAMES E. CUNNINGHAM, 130 BJlizabeth-streot,
Sydney, or from the Rector.
ELBOURNE CUP, 188 3.
LEVIATHAN “ADAMASTOR” COMPANY,
CAPITAL, £20,000 in 40,000 SHARES of 10s Each.
624 PRIZES (more or loss), £12,750 for STARS,
and £7250 for HORSES.
Plan of Astronomical Distribution:
First Horse (winner of the Melbourne Cup)..
Second Horse
Third Horse ’
Starters (divide)
Non-starters (do)
£3000
1500
750
800
1200
*** First Star
*♦* Second Star ..
*** Third Star ..
... £2000 ***
.. 1000 ***
.. 500 V
12 stars of £200 each, 100 stars of £100 each, 20
stars of £50 each, 20 stars of £40 each, 45 stars of £25
each, 100 towns of £10 each, 200 towns of £8 each,
od towns or ,£6 each, and “ the comet ” £40,
“ Adamastor,” in thanking his subscribers for the
liberal support that he has received from them for
the past three years, and in consequence of the
yearly increase of subscribers, llnds it necessary to
double his programme, which he begs herewith to
submit.
All parties are requested to forward drafts, P.O.
°£ ( , or cheques; if cheques, exchange must be
added, and in all cases postage fees; if cash, to
register letter. Application by letter only, ad-
dressed—
“ADAMASTOR,” care of L. A. Pereira, 34
Bourke-street, west, Melbourne; Box 473, G.P.O.,
Sydney; and Little’s Bass Hotel, corner Pitt and
Market Streets, Sydney.
P.S.—Results sent to country shareholders, and
published in The Australasian, Age, and Sydney
Town and Country. j f
Balls, Banquets, Public or Private Parties.
Ballrooms tastefully decorated with Flag or Floral
Decorations on reasonable temrs— Sale and Dare,
.6016 Hunter-street.*
Bourke J.C. Races, on Thursday and Friday
last. Maiden Plate: Blueskin, Moselle, Junius.
Stockman’s Purse: Black Diamond, Music, King.
Novel Handicap : Belle, Roaney, Robin Hood.
Central Australian Handicap: Comet, Blackbird,
Poverty. Malden Hurdles: Chancellor, The Gift,
Leander. Ladles’ Mile Trophy : Cadet, Sterling,
Victory. Friday.—Flying Handicap: Blonde, Ju-
nius, Cadet. Selling Race: Niger, Unknown.
Bourke Jockey Club Handicap: Nightlight, Black-
bird, Wee Jim. Handicap Hurdles; Moonlight,
Count, Leander. All-Aged Stakes : Blackbird,
«Quack, Gamecock. Forced Handicap : Echo,
Valentine, Victory,
“ Prudhoe,” Darling Point, the residence
of Mre. A. Goldman, was on Tuesday week the
scene of a novel and picturesque juvenile fancy
dross ball, given in honour of the birthday of the
'youngest daughter of the house. Despite the
inclement weather, over 100 of the invited ones
were present, and the sight, when all had
assembled, was extremely pretty. The large ball-
room was decorated beautifully. Beneath the
centre arch was suspended an artistic floral
device, composed of variegated camelias, whilst the
walls displayed the flags of almost every nation,
and the painted ceilings completed a charming
scene. Access to the conservatory was gained
through the ball room, and a display of the choicest
ferns arrested the eye. The grounds were also
made attractive by the display of Chinese lanterns,
whilst now and anon a blue or red light illuminated
the g;n - dens to the intense delight of the little ones.
A noticeable feature was that, with but one excep-
tion, there were no duplicate character* in the
rooms. Among the throne the mott conspicuous
characters were thoee of King Thakombau, repre-
sented by a West Maitland young gentleman, and
Two Minstrel Bovs, excellently got up. The young
lady. Miss Lily May, for whom the ball was given,
appeared a* Folie, and looked exceedingly pretty,
the character being well carried out, ana her drees
of the richest description. The bolleship of the
evening lay between a young lady from Upper
William-street, as Lady Teazle, and Miss Amy
Goldman, as a Polish Lady. The former was attired
in a costly and effective costume; the latter wore a
beautiful white and pink satin costume, trimmed
with deep ermine, elaborate body, hat to match,
and wig. Carmen and Italian Fisherman’s Boy,
assumed by a brother and sister from “Seven Oaks,"
looked well. A little girl, but exceedingly pretty,
hailing from Redfern, looked charming as Diana;
her brother also looked well as Neptune. New
South Wales, Italian Peasant, Patience, Maritana,
Highland Lassie (from Tamworth, whose dancing
was the theme of admiration), Claudine, Griolet,
Spanish Lady, Courtier (reign Louis XIV.), Swiss
Peasant, Maccaroni, Little Red Riding Hood, God-
dess of Flowers, Toreador, and Jack and GUI were
amongst the admired ones. Raynond de Corbon-
ieres, the little son of a well-known Government
official, was an excellent make-up. Towards mid-
night the younger ones commenced to disperse:
but those more able to resist the influence of
Somnus remained till about two o’clock, when the
programme was completed, and the last of the
pleased guests bade their hostess farewell.
* « » »
The commodious new Friendly Societies’
Hall was opened at Parramatta on Queen’s Birth-
day, with a procession, sports, speeches, and a
theatrical performance, In addition to its society
uses, the hah will be let for public purposes, and
for theatrical entertainments. The initial attempt
at drama, Boucicault’s “Kathleen Mavourneen,”
by the Shakespearian Amateurs, Is described by
the Mercury as “a first-class failure,” as the cur-
tain had to be several times rung down to enable
the actors to study up their parts The letter-
sorters of Melbourne Post Office had their annual
dinner on Saturday night. The Sydney Post Office
is singularly unsuccessful at anything in the social
line. The departmental picnics continued two
years, and then ceased— Lady Wilson, of Hughen-
den Manor, has raised £760 for the Royal College of
Music, chiefly from friends in Australia, and has
received the very warm thanks of the Princess of
Wales for her exertions. ... A pleasant marriage at
Tumut was that of Mr. F. W. Timmis, a gay
young Electric spark, to Miss Foord, when
the lady was presented with a vellum address
and a lot of sovereigns from the congregation of
All Saints’. Timmis, old boy, your health I We
hope you’ll never have “ communication inter-
rupted,” that your lines will fall in pleasant places,
and that you’ll never have to do any re-pairing
work. Ta-ta, Timmis....The daughter of the
Hon. Alexander Campbell, late P.M.G., was mar-
ried in April at Armagh Cathedral, to the Rev.
Alex. M’Cully, of Dublin—Miss Edith, daughter
of Sir Daniel Cooper, is engaged to Mr. Mao-
namara, a Clare gentleman..... .Mr, and Mrs.
H. R. Woods went to Europe in the Messa-
geries steamer, Sydney, last Saturday. There was
much adoo ’’—but not about nothing A Family
Club is being formed, to be open to ladies ... Rlnk-
ing and lawn tennis very fashionable at Welling-
ton... .A Townsville (Q’land) banking gentle-
man soon leads to the altar a young and aristo-
cratic widow — Another Townsville gentleman in
the same line is, we hear, shortly to marry the
daughter of the redoubtable “Thady.” Down
at Kiama, too, one of the oldest leading families
is going to be Robb-ed of its daughter by a bold
storekeeper....A Jewish author is engaged to a
rich Melbourne lady....The Oddfellows’ Ball at
Braidwood was pretty good, about 70 couple there;
belle a newly married lady in her bridal robes.,..
Murrumburrah Sports Club had a “ball,” a rough
and rude one... .Next Thursday night the Croydon
C.O. hold their annual quadrille party ... There is
a project to establish an aquarium, baths, reading
rooms, theatre, all in one, at St. Kilda A large
fancy fair was held in the Pavilion, Parramatta,
lost week, in aid of the R.C. convent. Usual duns
and dupes — The Manly R.C, ball, on the 23rd
May, was fixed for a bad date, or there was some-
thing else wrong. At any rate, it was a failure,
only 30 or 40 being present —Albury Railway
Banquet on 14th June, 000 seats, no ladies, half of
guests from each colony. Governors to go, beds
being sent up, publicans gleeful, blanket market
going up. Ball at night in the same building,
engine-shed. Evei-y conceivable scheme is being
practised by the hangers-on of influential politi-
cians to get tickets—The son of an ex-Colonial
Treasurer is to bo united to the daughter of
the youngest member of a triple firm of land
auctioneers in the city. But he goes home first
The Imperial Club’s flrat ball, held at Newtown
last week, was a snccess. The dresses worn were
varied and pretty, those of the young lady from
Woolloomooloo, in cardinal and cream lace, and of
two sisters in pink, from Darlington, being much
admired.... At the Royal Foresters’ ball at Orange, i
lately, the society’s splendid banner, recently im-
ported from England, and one of the finest in the
colony, formed a handsome feature in the decora-
tions. Sixty couples were present, and dresses as
a rule were good. Miss A. Potter looked well in
cardinal and white, and two sisters, from Anson-
etreet, ditto. Misses Baker in cream and silk, Miss
Miller in navy blue, Miss Mutton in pink and
cream, and three black velvets, were conspicuous;
while Miss Keefe added to a pretty face and figure
the charm of good dancing. Tne refreshments
were presided over gracefully by Mesdames
Nightingale and Wythes; and though the
music might have been somewhat better, the
ball was most enjoyable until nearly 5 a.m.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
North Shore R. C. Ball (Town Hall) June 1
E.S.A.A.C .First Annual Ball (Nithsdale).. June 1
Bachelors’ Assembly (Nithsdale) June 5
Masonic Installation Ball (Parramatta) ..June 6
Britannia C.C. Ball (Parramatta) June 8
Glebe Rowing Club Annual Ball June 8
Sydney Owl Club Ball (Town Hall) June 14
Masonic Ball, E.C. (Exhibition)....... ....June 19
Mercantile Rowing Club Ball (Exhibition).June 21
Masonic Ball I.C. (Town Hall) June 21
Ashfleld Assembly June 22
Engineering Association Conversazione... June 28
Newcastle R.C. Ball. July 5
Balmain R.C, Ball (Town Hall) July 13
LATE SPORTING.
Plunger goes to India after completing his
Adelaide engagements.
The best American 20-mile bicycle record
is now Ih. 7m. by Prince.
Tom Spring, of Cooma, and B. M'Ternon,
of Micalago, run 150 yards in a few weeks, for £100
a side.
The result of the Oaks is cabled: Lord
Rosebery’s Bonny Jean, 1; Count Le Grange’s
Malibran, 2; Lord Rosebery’s Ettare, 3.
Last Saturday, the Britannia C.C. easily
beat a combined team of the Marlebone and Clyde
Clubs by an innings and three runs to spare.
ITie Ivanhoe and Eastern Creek Cricket
Clubs .Played an all-day’s match at Rooty Hill on
Ciueen s Birthday, whon the visitors secured an
®asy victory.
An intercolonial pigeon match took place
at Adelaide on 32nd May, when the first prize of 86
guineas was won by Mr. H. H. Brown, who killed
10 out of 11 birds.
At Tamworth Athletic Club Sports, on
Queen’s Birthday, the 125 yards handicap was won
by Adams, and the President’s Cup, 150 yards, by
Brady, of Arraidale.
A match was played on Saturday between
the first fifteens of the Newtown and Burwood
Football Clubs, at Newtown. The local team won
by 5 points to 4 points.
The 100 miles record was cut by Mr. George
Burston, captain of the Melbourne B. C., on the
20th May, who accomplished the distance in the
excellent time of 9 h. 50 m., including stoppages.
Queen’s Birthday sports at Braidwood
well attended. Malden Plate won by J. Sharpe,
Braidwood Handicap easily by W. Sharpe. Fight-
ing freely indulged m between the various events.
Member of the Sydney Bicycle Club sensatlonod
the natives; first “spider” ever seen there.
Parramatta Sports, Thursday last. 100
yards handicap, A. Best; 125 yards handicap, W.
Webb: Friendly Societies’ Hall Handicap, 150 and
175 yards, A, Best; handicap hurdle race, J. J.
Byrne; handicapped three-legged race, Braith-
waite and J. J. Byrne ; 125 yards under 15 years
handicap, P. Hagan,
The respective supporters of Miller and
Foley met on Tuesday at 10 a.m., at Tattersall’s,
entered into the very immoral arrangement that
the glove-fight should be considered to have ended
in a draw. Let’s see. The French won the battle
of Waterloo, didn’t they ? Why, certainly. And
John Davies is still in Parliament ? To be sure.
And didn’t Foley beat Miller ? Of course he did.
At a sale, in England, of a contingent of
the late Mr. Crawford’s horses, Mr. W. A. Long
purchased Bay Archeress, a four-year-old daugh-
ter of Toxophilite and Lady Masham, for 280 gui-
neas. At the same sale General Von Luderitz,
acting for the German Government, gave 4100
guineas for Martini, a son of Hermit and Stray
Shot, and consequently a full brother to Shotover.
Another N.Z. sculler has been unearthed.
His name is Harrington, and he hails from River-
ton, Invercargill. Having beaten all the local
men, he has turned his attention to Hearn, cham-
pion of N.Z., challenging him to a match for £100
a side. Hearn has taken up the gauntlet, and a
race will soon be arranged between the pair, to
come off either at Wellington or on the Aparima
River, Riverton.
Tarryer’s time over the Thames champion-
ship course, till now the best in the books, has
been beaten. Brightwoll and Audsley, on a terrific
tide and with the wind in their favour, overlapped
Tarryer’s record—the former beating it by no less
than 37sec. The pair rowed over the course in
3min. 64sec. less time than is credited to the invin-
cible Canadian. And, as Hanlan could beat either
of them out of sight, it only just goes to show how
fallacious the time tost is.
The N.S.W. Coursing Club’s meeting at
Rooty Hill was brought to a conclusion on Satur-
day last. The First Beaten Stakes fell to W.
Cooper’s Coralie. The Second Beaten Stakes were
won by W. Cooper’s Cherry Duchess and Clair-
voyants, who divided. The St. Leger was appro-
Kted by Hill and Weir’s Humming Bird. The
es’ Bracelet was won by Miss Town’s Thrift;
and the New Plumpton Stakes resulted in a win
for J. Fletcher’s Fleetfoot.
On April 4, at Derbyshire County Sessions,
two men, named Ludham and Rodgers, appealed
against a sentence by the Helper magistrates of
two months’ imprisonment, with hard labour, for
cruelly torturing birds at a pigeon-shooting match
by plucking their eyes out and passing pins through
their bodies in order to make them fly from their
trap in an opposite direction to the person shoot-
ing. The court confirmed the conviction, and
gave costs against the scoundrels.
The Canterbury (N.Z.) Coursing Derby
was “whacked” between Mr. D. O’Brien’s Obstacle
J)y Crlchope Linn—Hinemoa) and Messrs. Hale and
udge’s Alchemist (by Borgia—Papanui) ; the
Oaks between Mr. Simpson’s Rosy (by Spring-
Aunt Sally) and Mr. Boyd Thomson’s Jane Amour
(by Totara—Marie Stuart); and the Christchurch
Stakes between Mr. Campbell’s Bessie Bell (by
Young Ridley—Rubina), and Messrs. Ross and
Bassett’s Taraban (by Totara—Maid of Kent).
Mr. Fred. M‘Bvoy, who is the present
holder of the Victorian Gun Club trophy, and has
been picked as a representative of Victoria in the
intercolonial pigeon-match, has backed himself
with Mr. A. Myers, for a case of champagne, to
break 80 glass balls out of 100. The affair is to
come off in Tumut, sometime after the match in
Yass, in which both Mr.M‘Evoy and Mr. Myers
have engaged to shoot. Probably the time will be
between the 5th and 12th of June; and on the same
day it is Intended to have a £10 handicap pigeon
match for all-comers.
YET ANOTHER.
“ It has been decided to take steps for the
presentation of a testimonial to ” Aheml
Yet another testimonial,
All in glowing colours writ;
Custom that has grown colonial—
How we laugh in scorn at it!
Very well, then, have your way, sirs;
But, ere you your coin advance,
When you raise the next one, pray, sirs,
Let the hangman have a chance!
Grafton Rowing Club Regatta on Queen’s
Birthday. Weather beautiful, but attendance
small. Results subjoined:—Crown Trophy, single
sculls: First division—E. W. Mackay 1, E. Fergu-
son 2, E. Ryan 3. Second division—M. J. Connor 1,
E. Cameron 2, P. Donaldson 3. Final heat—Fergu-
son 1, Connor 3, Mackay 3. Cameron and Mackay
fouled, which threw them out of the race. See
Trophy, double sculls: R. R. Donaldson and E. J.
Tierney were the only competitors, and rowed
over the course. Rudd Trophy, double sculls, for
competitors who had never been placed in any
regatta: M. J. Connor and G. S. Connor 1, E. W.
Mackay and R. Thomas 2, W. and J. Stevenson 3.
Club Trophy, single sculls, open to all comers: P.
R. Donaldson 1, J. C. Wilcox 2, E. J. Tierney 3.
Suburban Bicycle Club Sports, Saturday
last. One Mile Maiden Handicap—First heat: W.
J. Brown, 20 yards, 1; H. Harris, 60 yards, 2. Second
heat: W. Woolcot, 30 yards, 1; G. P. Cook, 10
yards, 3. Final heat; W. Woolcot, 30 yards, 1; W.
J. Brown, 20 yards, 2; time, 3min. 51sec. Three
Mile Championship of New South Wales : A. Lee,
Wanderers, 1; R. Shute, Captain Suburbans, 2.
Schools’ Footrace, 440 yards: J. Parker (Grammar
School) 1, A. Henry 2. Slow Race, 100 yards, the
last man to win: C. W. Bennett, Wanderers, 1. Five
Mile Championship of the Club: H. Moyse 1, J.
Barnet 2. One Mile Tricycle Race: C. W. Bennett
1, C. B. George 2. One Mile Open Handicap—A.
Lee, scratch, 1; E. C. Wood, 50 yards, 2. One Mile
Handicap, without using handles : R. Shute,
scratch, 1; H. Moyse, penalised30sec., 2; Shute won
easily. Two-mile Handicap: E. C. Wood, 25 yards,
1; W. J. Patterson, 30 yards, 2. 300 Yards’ Foot-
race, Handicap: C. Paterson, 6 yards, 1; G. Stephen,
5 yards, 2,
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
In one month the Melbourne Age printed
1,311,194: copies—giving an average dally circulation
or 50,430 copies —George E. Parkyn, barrister-at-
law, who has served many similar sentences, has
been committed at Melbourne for four months for
vagrancy —The convict hanged for murdering
the Chinese "doctor” at Armidale is believed to
have been in gaol under an assumed name, though,
in reply to questions on the morning of his execu-
tion, he said his name was Rusboume and that his
father was a Melbourne publican... That much-
whiskered gentleman, Mr. Thomas Lemprlere,
who was, some time ago, criminally proceeded
against by c. W. Hughes, a Melbourne sharebrokei',
on a charge of obtaining certain calls upon
shares in a mining company from him on the false
company was registered as a no-
liabillty company, has sued Hughes for £3000
damages for malicious prosecution. Verdict for
detendaut—Mr. Lindsay, proprietor of the Rod
laon Brewery, Bourke, is about to form the con-
cern into a company with a capital of £300,000
subscribed in 40,000 shares of £5 each....Points-
man Robert Moore blow his brains out at Lithgow
owing to his having been reproachfully informed
that he could have averted the recent railway acci-
dent by turning the trucks on to another line....
Ogden and Sutherland, the young Tasmanian mur-
derers, are to be hanged in a few days.. .The body
of a man has been found at Wart Hill Creek, Moa
Hat, N.Z., the head having apparently boon
chopped off and placed near his feet. It seems
that an attempt was made to burn the body.... A
man who said ho was “Riley the bushranger,”
stuck up and robbed the Bendemeer-Bunaarra
coach, taking the mail-bags. He was well-mounted
on a grey horse, and carried two revolvers, but it
was noticed that his hand shook as he pointed one
of them at the driver. The passengers were un-
armed and terror-stricken When a lot of
Northerners threatened to boycott a bank at
which a Chinese cook was employed, the manager
coolly remarked that “ he supposed they were
going to withdraw their overdrafts.”.... Echuca is
now a moribund town. Property sold six years
ago for £5000 has just been parted with for £950....
There’s a horse at Herberton, N.Q., which cats
lollies, canned fruits, potted salmon, and bullock’s
liver—The defalcations of Mr. Young, bank
manager at Eaglehawk, are £4000. He isjto be pro-
secuted— Thus writes a Melbourne man re the
Chloe controversy:—“ if the art of the painter and
of the sculptor is to be restricted to clothes, the
figures in the drapers’ shops and in the waxworks
will be sufficient to satisfy our noblest ambitions
in this country. In such case no horse should be
painted unless provided with a horsecloth: and
Hercules, Omphalo, and the Dying Gladiator should
be suitably put into opossum rugs.” A N.Z.
mining manager, while sluicing, slipped and got in
front of the jet of water from a hose with a 5-inch
nozzle. It lifted him 30 feet and landed him
amongst stones and boulders, breaking his pelvis,
hurting him otherwise internally, and smashing
three of his ribs near the spine Michael Flynn,
recently tried for and acquitted of arson at Wagga,
put his revolver-muzzle into his mouth and pulled
the trigger. Dead. Drink....Judge Holroyd, of
Melbourne, now holds his court in the German
lurnverein Hall, a place where the gay Teutons
meet to sing lieder, turn somersaults, and drink
lager Lake Hindmarsh (salt, 35,840 acres
m. extent) is dry, for the first time since
Wimmera district was first settled Big Are at
Lismore; the whole of Glasgow’s late property
destroyed....Barbour, a Melbourne Public Works
omcial, #ets £1500 consolation for Hawthorn rail-
way collision injuries One Adelaide solicitor,
during a recent week, had placed in his
hands no less than six divorce cases
A white dingo was recently seen by the driver and
passengers of the Moruya to Braidwood coach....
As Ben. Stephens, who tried to murder his wife at
Dubbo, is thought to have boon “not right in his
head when he did the shooting, ho will serve
seven years instead of being hanged... .The Lon-
don Daily News strongly urges the establishment
pt responsible Government in Western Australia,
because of culpable maladministration re immigra-
tipn-. At Herton’s sawmills, Rockhampton, William
Wilton had one of his logs nearly cut off by a
circular saw, and died almost immediately....At
the distribution of blankets to aboriginals at
Kiama on Queen’s Birthday, several young mem-
bers of tbe tribe had whiter skins than some Euro*
peans. Ihis is due to the advance of civilisation.
In course of time, all the blacks will be white.
Go down blackfellow, jump up whitefellow.”....
110 of Mr. George Rouse’s Biraganbil stud
ewes have yielded no less than 127 lambs*
One of those ewes has given birth to triplets
on three separate occasions An abori-
ginal recently brought a lubra, aged from 13 to 14
years old, to Cooktown, and sold her to a native of
Singapore for the very modest price of £310s. She
several times attempted to escape, and the pur-
chaser each time frightened her with a revolver.
However, she at last contrived to get away... The
other day, the Herberton (N.Q.) settlers had a roll-
up at Scrubby Creek, and interviewed the China-
men. . The result was that they escorted forty
Clunkies to the scrub, some on their way to Port
Douglas, the others to Cairns, leaving three China-
men on each of the three licensed gardens, and the
same number on the three selections leased, making
altogether eighteen. The Celestials didn’t resist,
but as the whites returned to town one way, their
almond-eyed friends went back to the selections
by another. The roll-up is to be repeated until the
Asiatics are got rid of.
* * *
When Joe Brady was asked why sentence
of death should not be pronounced, he denied his
guilt, and referred contemptuously to the paid in-
tormers. Then drawing back a little, and folding
his arms, he gazed defiantly at the Judge, who
proceeded to assume the black cap, and pass the
formal sentence of death. Brady, still preserving
his defiant attitude, lifted his hat, faced towards
his counsel, thanked them, and quietly descended
from the dock. The foreman of the jury, on
reaching his house after the trial, found a violent
threatening letter awaiting him. opening with a
frenzied appeal that he should hand in a verdict of
not guilty. It went on to say that if he disre-
garded this, the fate of Lord Frederick Cavendish
and Mr. Burke would be nothing to that which
would await him. as he would bo scalped.


£2000.—The “Australasia Sweep” on the
“ Melbourne Cup ” is for £2000, at 5s. per share—
an even four, 20s. First horse takes £1000; second.
£500; third, £260; starters, £150; non-starters, £100.
Total, £3000; and £1000 distributed in Prizes. Re-
sults of drawing 1 will be advertised in Syndey and
Melbourne papers, and result circulars mailed to
all subscribers throughout the colonies. Those
making application are requested to enclose notes
in registered letter; or if crossed cheques, payable
to “ Australasia ” or Bearer (with exchange stamps
added), and Id. stamps for reply and result. Appli-
cation, as usual, by registered letter. Ten per cent,
deducted for all expenses. Address—“ Austral-
asia,” care of Mr. H. J. Franklin, publisher, 40
Huntsr-street, Sydney.— Ad vt.
THE NEWSLETTER.
The gold yield of the celebrated Egerton
mine, Ballarat, has suddenly (alien very heavily.
During 1882, there was an average return of never
leas than 300 oz. per week—the largest weekly yield
being 1300 oz. The last week in February the return
dropped to 88 oz., but it has since recovered, and
is now about 120 oz. The total profits of the mine
since its discovery have been over £500,000. 281,000
tons of quartz have yielded 139,831 oz. gold.
A Parliamentary paper recently published
tells the story in a series of minutes, reports,
letters, &c., of the “exploration of the caves and
rivers of New South Wales” between ’05 and ’83.
There are some interesting particulars in the re-
turn, but not so many as one would naturally ex-
pect. One matter is or a rather ludiorouscharacter.
Surveyor Jenkins, of Yass, who had undertaken
the exploration of certain caves, seems to have
been verv slow in his movements, and to have been
continually not turning np in places where he was
expected; so that at last “Where is Jenkins?”
became a sort of stereotyped telegraphic form on
the part of the secretary to the Museum. Mr.
Jenkins probably thought that the story of the
rocks would be elicited more surely by the slow
and stately measure of the Government stroke—
only (and perhaps as well for the public revenue);
the Museum authorities were for more energy for
the screw.
The Claimant’s English friends and sym-
pathisers will peruse with intense interest and
gratification the startling announcement in the
Weekly Dispatch of April 8, of the departure
for England of Mr. Arthur Orton (alias Creswell),
late of Parramatta, “ in company with Mr. Joseph
Eckford, M.P. for Sydney; Peebles, the mate of
the Middleton, and others able to establish the
identity!” How the name of that gifted orator
and gentleman, Mr. Daniel Smith, comes to be
omitted in enumerating the chief members of the
partv, is utterly inconceivable—unless his eloquent
efforts on behalf of the unfortunate gentleman,
both in the Domain and at the Water Police Court,
have necessitated his taking a well-earned rest
before resuming more arduous duties at home. If
Mr. Smith would only repeat his famous lecture on
the Cavendish Family at an early date in London—
say, in Hyde Park—his audience will be little sur-
prised that a man of his ability and resources
should have experienced slight difficulty in ob-
taining the release of the lunatic Creswell from
the Asylum at Parramatta—be he the veritable
Arthur Orton or not.
Mr. Duncan F. Mackay, one
of the richest squatters in the
Northern district, is collecting a
large number of store cattle which
he intends exporting to England
as an experiment. He will charter
a steamer specially for the pur-
pose, and the cargo for the first
voyage will consist of 500 head.
One of the Endeavour River
(Q.) Big Bens has been captured. A
resident who had lost his dog stuffed
a dead pig with poison, and laid a
bait for the alligators. The next
day this pig bad disappeared. A
Mongolian then noticed an alligator
wildly lashing the water, and went
for assistance, and, with the aid of
a rope-noose round his head, the
saurian was pulled ashore. Big Ben
was killed; length, 14ft. Tin.
The great principle underly-
ing the new Imperial military train-
ing orders promulgated by Lord
Wolseley, is that, henceforth the
officers commanding companies will
be responsible for the instruction of
their own men “ in all they should
know.” It is said that Cambridge
nearly went off In an apoplectic fit
when reqested to sign the Order, as
of course it strikes straight at the
root of the patronage system he has
done his royal best to sustain.
H.R.H. says, with volleys of blank
shot, that the service is going to the
very—Wolseley. But that was al-
ways George’s way, ever since he
could enunciate an oath of one syl-
lable.
When Sergeant Cruise found
Martin Daly,that aged worthywas re-
clining in Louth Park, hopelessly be-
fogged, and surrounded by a number
of empty brandy bottles. As Wood
Bros’, wine and spirit stores, Mait-
land, had just been broken into,
cruel circumstances pointed to Mar-
tin as having had a finger in the pie.
They are now baling, not him, but
the brandy out; and expect to be
able to pump him pretty dry when
he has suffered a recovery. In
a certain burglarised safe, a
number of publicans’ licenses were
discovered, all torn up. This little
incident about the licenses (possibly
hypothecated) would, in the absence
of explanation, seem to point to the
circumstance that, as regards liquor
licensing reform, we’re a long way
off being out of the wood yet.
People are surprisingly ready to believe
charges against doctors; though it must in fair-
ness be said that we hear more about the errors
and carelessness of qualified medical men than
about the grave-filling exploits of our noble army
of undlplomaed quacks. The other morning a
Melbourne doctor gave his own wife sulphuric
acid Instead of morphia (with an almost fatal re-
sult), owing, it is stated, to his bottles having been
transposed by the Bridget of his establishment—
though how any sane doctor could mistake sul-
phuric acid for morphia is indeed a mystery.
Again, it is alleged that two Castlemaine doctors,
while treating a case of supposed dislocation of the
shoulder-joint, used a surgical pulley with such
terrible force that the patient’s arm was nearly
torn from the shoulder by the extreme strains—
so much so that the lacerated flesh had to be sewn
up after the man was put under chloroform. He
ultimately succumbed, and the matter was brought
under the notice of the police. This story is nearly
on a par with the wonderful occurrence at the
Alfred Hospital, Melbourne, a few years ago,
when one of the surgeons, after finishing an ovari-
otomy operation, sewed up inside the unfortunate
patient (who died) a pair of bulldog forceps and a
sponge.
At a banquet to him at New Plymouth,
N.Z., on the 24th April, Mr. Bryce, the Native
Minister, spoke very strongly on the statements
made in the “ History of New Zealand.” It was
not pleasant, he said, to be called a murderer of
Maori women and children; but those who knew
him best would know how little he deserved the
epithet, and he ventured to assert not one of them
had ever really heard of those supposed murders.
And the man who accused him of them he branded,
then and there, as a liar, a slanderer, and a coward.
He could excuse bitter feelings from those whose
relatives had been murdered, but it was not from
them at all the dastardly cry against him came; it
was from partisans who were opposed to every-
thing he did towards rendering the Maoris justice,
who were the enemies of New Zealand’s welfare,
and he despised them from the bottom of his
heart. The Maoris had been deeply wronged, and
in the Land Courts now held the costs of proceed-
ings were so excessive that the price was often all
swallowed by lawyers, and the Maoris got little or
nothing for their land. It was a disgrace to the
colony and to the legal profession; and, if the
lawyers did not look to it, and the Supreme Court
did not control them, another and higher power
would have to step In and do so. When it comes
to entangling Maoris in the meshes of the law, the
force of wrong can scarcely further go.
On May 8th, the D.T. published in a sub-
leader the following, referring to the letter of a
oorropondsnt:— 1 “ He justly says that when 37’7
per cent, of the passengers of one vessel died from
measles, and when on board the Allanshaw 25 per
cent, succumbed to disease, and that this happened
in the healthiest climate in the world—the trade-
wind districts of the Atlantic—the conclusion is
that there was carelessness or neglect somewhere.
It is almost Incredible that in these days of roomy
ships and modern conveniences, we should witness
a death-rate equal te the worst days of small-pox,
typhus, or scurvy.” The Australian Medical
Gazette Is naturally startled by this statement
that from 35 to 37 per cent, of the passengers on
board immigrant ships recently arrived in Sydney
had died on the voyage. Thus the Medical
Gazette “ The gross and absurd inaccuracy of
the statement that in one instance more than a-
thlrd, and in the other a-quarter, of the whole of
the passengers died, is almost beyond conception,
and requires no comment from us.” This hits the
Dailt Delirium on the raw, and our unfortunate
contemporary splutters frightfully. It says
of the Gazette’s remarks that “the assumption of
ignorance displayed in this paragraph is contemp-
tible.’’terms its medical critic an “ asinine writer,”
and hints that probably he had lost a lot of patients
somehow. Well, it’s no special business of ours,
but, since the Telegraph man denies that he
meant 25 or 37 per cent, of the passengers, and
insists that he meant only 25 or 37 of those attacked
by measles and “ disease,” will he explain how he
came to describe the mortality as “a death-rate
equal to the worst days of small-pox, typhus, or
scurvy T”
The Old Fugler.
The Old Fugler has many peculiar characteristics.
No man in the colony of Queensland cares so little
about public opinion, or goes less beyond himself
to find the measure of his actions. He is generally
met with on the outskirts of civilization, in the
midst of sheep and cattle, thinking like a philoso-
pher, and astounding the pure merino with his
latest deductions from Mill and Spencer. He had
turned middle age when we last encountered him.
It was at O Malley*s. during race time.
There he sat in the crowded parlour, in rather
brownish attire, with his legs crossed, a briar-root
pipe in his mouth, his eyes elevated to the celling,
and a brandy tonic on the table at his elbow. He
was taking no part in the spirited conversation
that was shot around. “ Five to three on Van-
guard I” “Four to three on Cossack!” “Two to
one on Rocket!” split his tobacco-smoke like
stones flung from a catapult, but he was not
heeding.
A little plump man with a fair face and delicate
whiskers began to narrate the good points of
Strephon. He had seen Strephon performing in
good company down south. She was a full sister
™ Plying Hokey, out of Nell by Backgammon,
half-brother to Nebuchadnezzar, out of Buff Maid
by All Fours. Of course everyone knew All
hours. She, Strephon, was a devil of a plunger,
with plenty of wind, and the little man was
anxious to take three to four on her. A long,
dark man, who had lately cut his whiskers away,
was descanting on the merits of Barlow. We all
know that Barlow was twin-brother of Thlckthorn
out of Three Star by Even Trick, whose half-
sister made the fastest time on the Western course,
excepting only Paddy. Another man, with a
venerable face, and a sheet of paper in his hand,
was showing how feasible a thing it was to get up
a sweep on the big event.
Everyone was talking and drinking and smoking,
no one hearing more than two consecutive words
of what was addressed to him, and not caring
much about what he did hear, but still feeling ft
his duty to keep up the discourse, just to manifest
that he was a broad-minded man, and was capable
of taking part in intellectual proceedings. Having
left their stations behind for the time, they felt
themselves cosmopolitan in principle. They were
no narrow-minded flock-masters. They were en
rapport with the excitements of civilization, all-
round men, instinct with the highest qualities and
with adaptibilities for the most exacting intellec-
tual problems. They were, therefore, all anxious
to bet, to bet, to bet.
But in speaking of the mass we have dene what
everybody always did—we have forgotten to take
note of Old Fugler. He did not bet or talk of
betting. He did not know Strephon from Barlow,
and could not tell the difference between a prize
ox and a milch cow. He sat there with his
brandy tonic, and his briar-root pipe, oblivious of
the Babel and pandemonium about him, looking
to the rafters and evidently thinking.
The silent man in a group of talkers is always
worth observing. The solitary man in a convivial
crowd has always excited our curiosity. Old
Fugler was both, and on this occasion our eyes
rested inquisitively upon him. We began to
speculate as to what ths current of his thoughts
could be among such uncongenial surroundings.
Did they flow towards love? Was there an Ariadne
somewhere on their banks ? Did they mount up
on the principle of an Artesian well to a tableland
of social peace ? Our knowledge of Old Fugler
made us aware that it was on some of these lines
his fancy was running.
Our surmise was finally confirmed. “Three to
four on Strephon.** cried the little plump man,
slapping Old Fugler on the shoulder, and then
squaring round to the front. “ Man, you should
he on. Everybody is on. Aren’t the odds fair ?”
Silence fell upon the company, AH suddenly
remembered that Old Pugler had been forgotten.
The suit of brown clothes, with the legs crossed,
the briar-root pipe, the brandy tonic, and the ele-
vated eyes, had been there they couldn’t tell how
long, and they suddenly realised that they were
the property of a man.
“Three to four!” cried the little man. “Two to
one, cried the big man. “Three tickets more
for the sweep!” cried the serving man.
We waited for the issue. They had climbed his
ladder, and dragged him down by the heels. He
released his left leg of its burden, withdrew his
eyes from the ceiling, the briar-root pipe from his
mouth, and the brandy tonic from his glass, and,
m a voice denoting the earnestness of his feelings,
asked “Which of you read J. Stuart Mill's Auto-
biography ? ”
The erudite cosmopolitans stared; and then Old
Fngler set to, and, without any recognition of the
mopportuneness of his descriptive and analytic
discourse, went through the genesis of the work,
and criticised its peculiar bearings upon the present
condition of human affairs. It was a most thought-
ful and impartial harangue; but, after the exchange
of some puzzled looks, his intellectual companions
called for fresh tonics, and turned themselves Into
twos and threes to go again over the points ef
Strephon and Barlow.
Alas! how many Old Fuglers there are In the
world! Our Old Pugler has his habitat in the
w est, and plays his incongruous part where the
bucolic soul doth flourish. But he has brothers
everywhere—in the pulpit, at the bar, and in the
senate. You will know you have a genuine mem-
ber °r fc ? e famU y before you when you find a man,
who is honest and otherwise respectable, exhibit-
ing the wealth of his Intellect and the depth of his
research to people whose minds are full up of
something else.
There is a gentleman in London named
Hebden. He hasn’t patented candles, or written a
K>em, or eaten ice-cream on the field of Tel-el-
£ebir; yet he is famous. There was a Judge’s
order against him for contempt, and he went in
due course to be arrested. But there only being
an usher in Court (the tipstaff having gone away
for the day, either to marry his niece or to bury
his mother-in-law—which or both has not trans-
pired), there was nobody to arrest him. So Mr.
lebden went away a free man, and thus walks
from the Court and from these pages. Mr. Heb-
den’s case, however, suggests something of a simi-
lar kind, which happened here. A journalist of
this city, being anxious to write up a certain illus-
trious captive, contrived by collusion with his em-
Eloyera to get a ca. sa. out against him; and then
e used to stand outside Punch’s all day waiting to
be taken; his portmanteau and rug being duly
deposited under one of the dining-room tables.
But the bailiff never came. Then he took to writ-
letters, like these: "Dear sir, kindly travel down
in this cab and effect a capture. lam tired of
being free.” But It was of no use. Anonymous
epistles were then resorted to: “ Mr. Blank sails for
Brisbane, to-day, by the Keilawarra. Seize him.”
But though the would-be captive cooled his heels
on the poop of the vessels until he was several
times within an ace of being taken to Brisbane in
real earnest, no bailiff ever appeared on the scene.
At length, after a large amount of trouble, the
debtor found out where the bailiff dined. Then he
used to go there regularly; sit at the opposite
table, and bribe the waiter with threepenny-pieces
to reveal his identity. Still the bailiff made no
sign. Then he took to waylaying him outside the
Courts, and imploring to be taken up. But the
officer was always otherwise employed; and begged
to be excused on the score of prior engagements.
At last he found out where the bailiff lived, and
went there at early dawn and sat upon his door-
step. This touched the heart of the bailiff, and he
was duly arrested. “But I can’t take you up
now,” said the officer, “as I have to mangle for
the missis. Meet me at Vt o’clock.” Punctual to
his appointment the wretched scribe was there;
but the bailiff never came. The next day the
scribe died of cold and exposure.
There was recently a row about a picture
of William 111. crossing the Boyne, at Campbell-
town. One man charged another with stealing it.
The work of art was worth 40s. The prisoner, who
had offered 10s for it, and Intended it as a present
to Sir Henry to hang among his “other Rubenses,”
was discharged. It will, we should say, be now
Sur chased by the Government since it transpired
uring the proceedings that “ the frame was alone
worth the money.
A Murderer’s maxim — Hangmen are a
noose-noe.
A homoepathic chemist in Brisbane was
thrown from his horse, the other day, and “fell
heavily on his purse, which was full of silver, and
which was in a side pocket. The concussion broke
his thigh.” This is a gorgeous sort of an accident,
if you like. We should think ourselves concussed
lucky if we could fall heavily on a purse full of
silver, even if the fall broke our neck. But when
we fall on our purse, the concussion breaks our
heart. And yet the only metal about the purse is
the clasps.
How juries manage in Paris. Soufflet, a
young artizan, had a row in a pub. with one
Asthoiraer, because the former declined to pay
after having invited A. to drink. He was kicked
outside by the landlord, but soon after returned
with a wooden plank, waited for A. at the street
corner, and hit him with it over the head In such a
manner that A. dropped dead. Counsel for the
prisoner now informed the jury that Soufflet was
well known to be a man of a violent temper, and
Asthoiner should have known better than irritate
him by declining to pay for the drinks. As he per-
sisted in doing so at his own danger, it was A.’s
own fault that he got killed. The jury were so
impressed with this argument that they brought In
a verdict of “ not guilty.”
Years ago, when the world first began to
hear of the existence of Dunedin, the popu-
lation of that most pious city was a curi-
ous mixture of “old identities,” that is,
the distinguished old parties who came direct from
Caledonia stern and wild, and of “ new iniquities,”
—rushing go-aheaders from Victoria and else-
where, who came in all the feverishness of the gold
hunger, and nearly drove the sedate and canny old
parties aforesaid daft by their vigour and push. But
these old people are very tough. A few weeks ago
a curious gathering of the “ old identities” was
held. It was of settlers and their families who
arrived in the one vessel, the Robert Henderson,
exactly a quarter of a century ago; and, out of 320
passengers 100 survivors gathered round the social
board. As Peter Robertson, the chairman, said, the
arrival of these passengers was the first progressive
step the city took. They made the well-known
Cutting,” formed the roads, and by them the first
street-metal was broken. This ambiguous remark,
however, was innocently made, for Peter had
nothing to be ashamed of in having “ lifted the
hammer in those days.” That’s the difference
between Peter and some other men. He com-
menced life by cracking stones, and then got rich •
they try to get rich first, and end by cracking
stones.
From the Evening News it
would appear that “ Immolate ” and
mutilate ” are cognate verbs: both
are contractions of “ motorlate,”
itself a contraction of “trammotor-
tolate.”
| |The Echo, which helps to prop
up a good many shams, naturally
says that “ the iconoclast is master
of a very poor trade.” But, then,
luckily no one cares a tinker’s grand-
dam what the Echo says or thinks.
Honest folk, however, generally re-
gard an iconoclast who has shattered
a lie as “brother-belonging” to the
fellow who has dug a well in a wil-
derness.
Master in up-country school,
who has a turn for lexicography [ 11
Bo-JB.], musing to assembled^class :
— There have been curious dic-
tionaries without number. Fancy,
one Huet wrote a dictionary upon
the articulations of animals—the
cries of dogs, for instance.” Favour-
ite pupil Please, sir, I think it
must have had a ’normous clrkila-
tion ’mongst the rats.” Go down.
enterprise interesting to
newspaper proprietors is about to
be undertaken by an Italian gentle-
man, Signor Nicola Bernardlnl. who
is going to compile a grand Dic-
tionary of the Newspapers of the
World, in which will be embodied all
particulars respecting each journal.
We shall be happy to forward to
Italy any details which our brother
journalists may think proper to
place in our hands for Signor Ber-
nardini’s information.
In William Black’s “Shandon
Bells.” John Boss is made to talk in
very earnest, intelligent, and noble
strains about art—strains higher
than aestheticism entranced with the
sheen of peacock blue and the
weird dismalness of splashy noc-
turnes will ever attain to. When
ye look at a cornfield,” he says, “ye
see nae single stalks at all, but a
great mass of gold, as it were, with
a touch of orange here or paler yel-
low there, and a wash of green
where the land is wet, and some-
times of warm red. even where the
stalks are mixed with weeds. Ye’ve
got to paint more than ye see ; ye’ve
got to put just that something into
the cornfield that will make people’s
hearts warm to it when they see it
on your canvass.” That is a very
healthy sort of art-talk.
Fort-street School. Teacher to pupil in
advanced class: “Who was Croesus ?’ r Pupil:
W lia - Chorus of pupils, sotto voce t
What a giddy man.”
He was one of those vile, lazy, impotent,
unshaven creatures who sometimes disagreeably
Infest tramcars. He presented that unwashen
grimy appearance, which betokened, when taken
in connection with his perfectly decent coat, not
so much the absolute inability to buy soap, as an
absolute disinclination to use it. To his neighbour
he u 8I £ el t o f ' «hrt. That neighbour was a doctor
who had been dilating on contagion and infection
and what the adjectively unbathed man could (rive
his more cleanly fellow humans. Then our gnmv
friend took it as personal, and asked, peremptorily
and loudly, so that everybody in the car heard'•
Shay I Wha could I give, hey ? Wha’ c’d I (rive
any person? Bosh, sir, all bosh ’bout ’fectlon—
dirt. On’v wash once a for’night. Look at me:
what could I give, hey?” “You give?” the do<>
tor turned and scanned him with a critical and dis-
gusted expression, replying a little more loudly:
You could give anybody leprosy.” The Medical
Association in effect says—“ Leprosy is Dirt.”
Probably no case in legal annals will equal
that of “ Ingersoll v. N.Y. Sun,” for libel, damae-es
laid at £36,000. Mr. Ingersoll kept a factory,
was a rich man. A prepossessing girl called one
day to seek for employment, and as he was telling
her he had no work for her, he happened to take a
very large roll ol notes from the safe. Her eyes
gleamed. Next day, he received a letter accusing
im of having attempted a criminal assault on the
nice girl, and demanding hush-money. He kicked
the man who brought the letter down-stairs, but
as he was leaving the office soon afterwards, he
was assailed by three men with cowhides, while the
girl threw pepper in his eyes. Maddened and
blinded, the men loudly repeated the accusation of
assaulting her, and the crowd took up the cry.
His explanations were useless, and he was dis-
graced, jeered at, and ruined in society and busi-
ness. The Sun made the mistake of assuming him
an j? scathed the unfortunate victim
still further. But Ingersoll was a fighter. He
engaged detectives—night and day for weary
months he sought and followed out the clues he
got, and at last landed his destroying gang in
prison. The nice girl ” was a criminal, as clever
as she was vile, who, under disguises of dress and
name, had worked similar schemes in other parts
of the country, and blackmailed scores of men.
But ingersoll was too hard a nail for her. and
neither she nor the Sun newspaper will get mercy
now from the man on whom they Inflicted such
*” y ’ wl " '”*■» '•* “
