

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 1.—No. 10. —New Series
SATURDAY, JULY 21, 1883.
Price—6d,
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JULY 21, 1883.
Monopoly.
Thb leading characteristic of the present
epoch is unquestionably the extraordinary
amount of attention which is being devoted
to the tendency of the rich to become richer
and the poor poorer. The wealth achieved
by monarchs and other rulers in by-gone
ages was easily accounted for. History told
the story without compromise, since it
seemed the interest of no powerful indi-
vidual or class to require that aught should
be extenuated or concealed. The great ones
of modern days took the line of inviting at-
tention to the contrast —that they are not as
their predecessors were. The latter heaped
up wealth by undisguised spoliation and
violence. When they con-
quered a country or a pro-
vince, they, in the directesb
and most callously undis-
guised fashion, simply swept
all that could be laid hands
on, in the way of precious
metals or other tangible
wealth, into their treasury.
Or, if they were not con-
querors, they just stripped
their own subjects as seemed
good to them. Later, it has
been found more convenient
to make a pretence of
fleecing people with their
own consent; and monarchs,
with haughty humility,
deign to acc j pt at the
hands of their subjects huge
annual grants, a large pro-
portion of which, as a
matter of fact, most of
the contributors would re-
fuse, if they only knew how.
But the policy has been the
same. Just as the Roman
Emperors distributed lavish
donations among their Pre-
torian Guards, and per-
mitted their Provincial
Governors to help them-
selves to a big share of the
tribute, so the rulers of to-
day are careful to surrou: d
themselves with a guard c . e
privileged individuals and
classes, who derive their
wealth in a smaller degree
from the same source which,
in a greater degree, sustains
the extravagances of the
monarch. Nobles, place-
men, and Fretorians—the latter now termed
Guards, and Standing Army—live in idleness
upon the fruits of the labours of others; and
these so-called superior classes unite in re-
senting and opposing, by every device, all
attempts or proposals to alter a condition of
affairs so extremely comfortable for them-
selves.
* * ♦
These, however, are no new and intoler-
able imposts. There are few communities
which could not easily, and would not con-
tentedly enough, bear the ordinary burdens
imposed by modern forms of Government,
however extravagant the expenditure.
Monarchs have their uses ; nobles have their
value; civil placemen are essential; and
soldiers are even popular, as defenders of
national industry from foreign plunderers
and competitors. There is no natural senti-
ment of repugnance, in the human mind, to
a benevolent despotism. The idea of a good
God is one which all humanity welcomes
with affection. And the conception of
Divinity is precisely the idea of a benevo-
lent despotism. Kings have, in all ages,
pretended to the position of vicegerents of
the Almighty. The theory of their eleva
tion has been that they stood removed from
vulgar struggles, impartial but not uncon-
cerned spectators of the toils and conten-
tions among the meaner crowd; dispensers
of justice, repairers of inequality, the fathers
and protectors of their peoples. Their func-
tions have been described as the protection
of the weak against the strong. It has theo-
retically been their duty and their delight
to so regulate government that some
equality of happiness, comfort, and
security should be maintained, and that in
the competition for the gifts of nature, none
should be trampled under foot. Had this
ideal been sustained in reality, a republic
would have been an impossibility. Even
where republics exist to-day, they are but
monarchies in disguise. There is always a
sovereign, although he may have no symbol
of monarchy, and be styled by a different
til le. Only the items of heredity or per-
petuity have been eliminated, because bitter
experiences have proved that where these
conditions prevailed there has been a uni-
form tendency to exaggerate the privileges
and immunities, while simultaneously neg-
lecting the duties, of rulership. But even
this would be endured were it not that uni-
versally the ruling caste has allied itself
with a modern class of oppressors infinitely
more exacting than themselves—a class
which grasps nearly all the enjoyments and
privileges ol sovereigns, while holding itself
from any obligation whatever towards the
people. The monopolist is the true tyrant
of to-day. Mankind could and readily would
give its tribute towards even hereditary
governors, however extravagant and greedy,
were it not that the new order of monopo-
lists, by appropriating the bulk of the com-
mon means, while evading proportionate
contribution to the common expenses, de-
prives the many of the wherewithal not only
to support their share of general taxation,
but even to subsist in comfort and decency.
The accusation of the multitude against the
rulers to-day is not so much that they plun-
der them and grind the faces of the poor, as
that they have so failed in their functions as
to permit the few to plunder the many, and
trample them into the mire of abject poverty,
or endless and, to themselves, fruitless
labour.
No monarch, hereditary or elect, would
have dared to “ damn the public,” as it is
alleged Vanderbilt, son of the skipper of a
barge, in brutal repudiation of any moral
duty towards his neighbours, damned them.
The actual words may never have been
uttered, but they convey in a concentrated
form the actual attitude which the monopo-
list class is seen to hold towards the less
fortunate masses. There is a spirit of revolt
against the inequalities thus arrogantly
“rubbed in” fermenting throughout the
.civilised world.The masses everywhere
arraign the social codes which permit such
monstrous and iniquitous disparities to
exist. They recognize no natural nobility
in the new order of plutocrats which war-
rants their eminent fortunes. Were gran-
deur of circumstance coupled with grandeur
of soul or superiority of intellect, mankind
would probably acquiesce in the contrast,
and bow before it as an ordinance of Provi-
dence. But, where they perceive great
wealth to be often the direct result of selfish
insensibility, and to be frequently coupled
with a brutal arrogance, and impotent to
curb an original covetousness, they deny
that Providence can have any hand in it,
and assign the enormous disparities of
fortune rather to a violation than to
a fulfilment of Divine ordinances. And,
when they perceive that the very laws
which should protect the weak against
the strong have been gradually perverted
so that they uniformly operate to entrench
the strong against the weak, they revolt
Snst the whole system which is euphoni-
y styled “law and order.” They dis-
cover that it is a crime, by statute, for work-
men to combine against employers, from the
point at which such combination takes a
practical and operative form. And they do
not fail to notice that there is no law in any
civilized code which restrains employers from
combining to depress and control operatives.
Seamen are sent to gaol every day for refus-
ing to fulfil their engagements; but who
ever heard ef a ship-owner being sent to
gaol for inveigling men aboard a rotten
craft? The military are called out to sup-
press the strikes of coal-miners and iron-
workers, but when mine-owners and iron
masters concert a lock-out, or conspire to
cut down wages, though their action may
be equivalent to offering thousands of men
choice between starvation, expatriation, or
submission to laborious penury, the laws
furnish no remedy whatever.
* * *
It has been repeatedly asserted that to
place any limitation upon accumulation
would be to destroy one of the strongest
.motives for human progress,
Thislis true,'.in a sense. It
would be to obliterate that
powerful motive—unalloyed
selfishness. But the fashion
in which this argument is
presented and reiterated
assumes invariably that
human progress would be
brought to a standstill were
this particular motive de-
stroyed. This is a scandal-
ous libel upon human
nature. It assumes that
there is no other, and can
be no other, motive to in-
dustry, invention, and enter-
prise, than a selfish desire
forpersonal aggrandisement
We contest this utterly. It
is true that, as matters stand,
the utterly selfish and greedy
are the most apt to attain
the shameful preeminence
which belongs to the mono-
polist. But it does not fol-
low that because acquisi-
tiveness and callousness,
when coupled with certain
faculties of calculation and
organisation, enable a man
to snatch more than his
share of the common stock,
such men and such qualities
are the only ones which are
capable of developing the
resources of nature. On the
contrary, it is notorious
that the true progressionist,
the thinker and the inven-
tor, seldom acquires great
wealth, any more than in
a society where rapine
prevails the husbandman garners the
greatest store of grain. In the latter case
it was the man with a genius for organising
a gang of out-throats who lived on the fat
of the land. In the present instance it i- ; the
man with a talent for organising a ring of
forestallers or concessionists, who profits by
the inventor’s conceptions and the work-
man’s toil.
• *
The abilities of individuals are indeed dif-
ferently graded. But it is monstrous to
pretend that the ability of the average man
who just manages to earn enough to subsist
and support his family from day to day,
bears to the ability of a Vanderbilt, a
Gould, a Baxter, or a Baird, the ratio which
his income does to theirs. Common sense re-
volts at the fable, and human nature will
not much longer endure the anomaly upon
which it is founded. The process by which
the vast wealth of individuals—whether in-
herited, or accumulated in one life—tends to
constant increase, begins to be widely corn-
Thomas Holt. William Montague Stuart Alexander John Bayley George Robert
Manning. Donaldson. Darvall. Nichols.
THE FIRST MINISTERS UNDER RESPONSIBLE GOVERNMENT IN N.S.W.


The Rates of Subscription to The Bulletin
are—For one year, 24a.: half-year, 13s.; quarter, 6s
The Advertising Bates are 5s. per inch;
special positions In the paper Ts. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows -On ad-
vertisements ordered for II consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 30 consecutive insertions,
15 per cent.; For 52 consecutive insertions, 35 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion.
Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at h<?d-time.
PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6s. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Bejaitnenl,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
c. w. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET,
where you can obtain for
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
otner establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome of all Beverages.
C. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELISH WHISKY,
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
3s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS,
Market Street, Sydney.
Nothing more exciting than the earth-
quake of Saturday week has agitated the Adelaide
public for years. Each man, woman, and child
now struts importantly forward in the march of
progress, and declares that he, she, or it has now
felt the convulsions of nature—can now be sup-
posed to have participated in the common joys and
sorrows of civilised humanity. Heretofore, local
excitement has been confined to the occurrence
of funerals, or a letter from Tomkinson. The
earthquake has shot Niagara for Adelaideans. It
provided the papers with actual news, and the
community with a topic of conversation in no way
allied to the weather. Judge Way actually blew
his nose while on the bench, and, in presence of
the earthquake, the fact was not known to more
than half the citizens by nightfall.
No one can be sick if the stomach, blood,
liver and kldnevs arc well. Hop Bitters keep them
well. Notice.*
prehended. It is perceived that the whole
process is within the scope of very ordinary
talents, and that a man may acquire wealth
not only without being of angelic nature,
but actually by reason of quite opposite
qualities. Among the British millionaires
three, Mr. James Baird, Sir David Baxter,
and Mr. Crawshay, were iron-masters.
The first died worth £1,190,000, the second
£1,098,000, and the third £1,300,000, in per-
sonalty alone. The secret of their wealth is
plain enough. They squeezed it at the rate of
a penny an hour, or a pound a week, or in
some such proportion, from the wage really
earned by each of the thousands of men
labouring under their auspices. They grew
rich beyond their possible requirements, and
thousands pinched a bit that they might
heap up redundant wealth. Each p.'nny,
and each pound thus denied to labour repre-
sented a fraction of culture, of ease which
leads to culture and content, of education
for families of children—in short, of upward
progression over an enormous area of hu-
manity. Now any man may heap up and
concentrate on himself the earnings of
others. But no man can concentrate in his
own person or in hii own soul the culture,
the refinement, the enlargement of mental
scope which leisure and comfort permit and
encourage, and which by grinding down
workmen to the lowest point of sustenance
he denies to them and theirs. Thus a vast
fortune fructifies enormously in the material
sense. Money makes money. But it im-
poverishes humanity in a much wider and
more vital sense. If limitation of accumu-
lation be said to paralyse one of the springs
of human progress, how much more forcibly
may it be alleged that unlimited right of
taking advantage of opportunity to squeeze,
paralyses progress in a far wider and more
significant way? It breeds hopelessness,
recklessness, discontent, envy, and ulti-
mately—but surely—revolution.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Lashings of It.
Yes! It has been ludicrously overdone—we mean
the legislation regarding flogging. No man is safe.
Assuming that the magistrates, some of whom
appear feverishly anxious to order the cat, carry
out their professions, wo could guarantee to find
in a few minutes sufficient evidence to send a few
dozen clergymen or schoolmasters or membex-s of
Parliament to the triangles. Dozens of Innocent
men have been flogged in Melbourne, and it is safe
to predict that dozens will be flogged in Sydney
before the iniquitous legislation is remoulded. A
few years ago. all Liberal England rose and shook
its list (a pretty heavy one) at the lords, spiritual
and temporal, and the gentlemen of the House of
Commons for allowing a drunken and insubordin-
ate soldier to receive fifty lashes. Now, no British
soldier can bo flogged for any crime. And hero
comes the delightful absurdity. The punishment
which was considered too brutal for some of
the sweepings of the slums, gaols, and brothels
of the United Kingdom—even when the preserva-
tion of military discipline was imperative—is just
the thing for the civil population of New South
Wales. A little rough on us, isn’t it ? But there is
another way of looking at it. A hundred and
eighty millions of people in France, Germany,
Italy, and the United States—countries which have
done a little for civilization, although not, perhaps,
so much ns Australia —are governed without
toi-ture. Wo have less than a million, but can’t
get on without whipcord. It will always be sooth-
ing to those colonists of New South Wales who
travel, to know that, if they want to run the risk
of being “spread-eagled,” they must get home.
And now, who are the men who were the prime
movers in this precious business? Are they not
the links binding us to a past we would fain forget
—to a past whose very remembrance makes the
blood sux-ge with indignation and shame? Are
they not the narrow-minded disciplinarians
who, unable to see an inch below the surface,
still cling to the tx-aditions of their youth—
that human nature is merely convict human
nature? These men can never change. They
resemble the Tory who condemned God for dis-
turbing chaos by making the world. It is but a
fair assumption that those men know just
about as much and no more of the causes
underlying human actions as they did yeax-s
ago, when governing Tasmanian felons, and
ordering stripes with nonchalant Impartiality.
The causes, deep, it is true, and obscure,
of larrikinism and a good many other hum
are likely to remain sealed books to them to the
end of the chapter.
God Bless the Duke of Argyle.
His Grace the Duke of Argyle is a very worthy
-man, and had he not been born to a Dukeaom,
would probably have been equal to the duties of a
third-rate schoolmaster. As matters have been
ordered, he is a Duke, and a bore of the lirst water.
His Grace writes treatises, which that extremely
knowing person, W. Kegan Paul, publishes in the
Nineteenth Century, and which, consequently,
a number of innocent persons are led to read and
to try and extract sense from. Encouraged by
these brilliant literary successes, the Duke has
been smitten with the idea that he is born to
be a philosophical defender of landlordism. Re-
port has even ascribed to him an intention of
demolishing, by a masterly rejoinder, Henry
George’s work, “ Progress and Poverty.” The
very fact that a live Duke was to take up the
cudgels in defence of his right to exist, seems to
indicate that the campaign is lost before the battle
is begun. Things have come to a pretty pass,
when any Mechanic, who lias genius, can shake
t he nerves of Dukes, and cause Personages by the
Grace of God to break out into aristocratic cold
perspirations. In the good old days of chivalry,
nobles and knights disdained to enter the lists
against persons of low degree. Now, it becomes
daily harder to find or hire press spadassins to do
capable pen-fighting. A man like Henry George,
writing under the influence of an inspiration, and
in deadly earnest, is a terrible customer. He mmt
be answered. Yet the professional wielders of the
pen hang back from the enterprise. “ Ho has a
trick of fence, this George,” says one; “a sort of
puzzling logical twist, which I don’t see my way to
get the better of.” “He is fighting an honest
battle in a masterly way,” cries another; “ I have
neither the will nor the ability to cope with him.”
“ What he writes is true,” cries a third: “I accept
his demonstrations. Fight your own battles, ye
land monopolists; lam against you, for self-pre-
servation.” So the poor Dukes and Squires have
to come forth and plead their own cause. And
that damns them quicker than anything else; be-
cause what seems very convincing argument and
quite reassuring, over the wine and walnuts, when
put into print takes, oddly enough, the shape of
ai-rogant assumption and cold-blooded pretension
which irritates mankind instead of convinc-
ing or converting. The Duke of Argyle
will demonstrate entirely to bis own satis-
faction, and to the satisfaction of everybody
who is likely to converse familiarly with him,
that it is quite providential that the few, of whom
he is one, should have more than they can waste,
while the many have less than they require. Hut
he will ludicrously fail to convince anyone else.
So that, on the whole, all he is likely to achieve is
the doubtful distinction of having his name handed
down to posterity as the Duke who tried to answer
George, just as the world remembers the Sieur
de Cligny only as the noble who declined to sit at
table with Molxere.
“Arm, or Separate.”
In connection with the debate in the House of
Lords on Australian defence, the Age goes at once
to the root of the matter. “ Either we must arm
or separate.” This is the way to approach a diffi-
cult question. It is absurd to approach it in any
other. All the “ high faintin’’ about the “ integrity
of the Empire,” “ our manifest destiny,” and the
other sonorous phrases by means of which men
persuade themselves, and sometimes their noigh-
boxxx-s, that they have completely mastered a sub-
ject, are knocked endways by the Peers’ debate.
We must “ arm orseparate.” The Imperial Upper
House says it cannot defend us. Our position,
then, is laughably anomalous. We are provinces
of the Empire, and therefore must share its war-
like responsibilities. If the French give no satis-
factory reason for their extraordinary conduct to
English naval officers in Madagascar, Sydney and
Melbourne may have to shift into the country.
We are thus in the pleasant position of being
liable to all the kicks, but none ot the halfpence.
Should we axaii to defend our ports, we axe merely
spending millions to secure oux-selves against a
quarrel regarding whose Inception, duration, or
conclusion we would no more be consulted than
Belgium would be if the French, in their next dis-
agreement with Berlin, thought they would gain
any advantage by seizing it. We should therefox-e
be thankful to the Lords for enabling us at last to
look this unpleasant fact square in the face. They
tell us, in language there is no mistaking, that
they cannot defend us. It is about time our rulers
looked round to see who could.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
England is before us in one thing—lunatics.
She has one in 353, and we in 354. We have our own
opinion as to whether we could not muster up a
few more on a pinch, but mum's the word A
pure white magpie trapped by Mr. ,1. Curran on
the Yass Plains Pettier Sadler has been sent up
for twelve months by the Bathurst Bench, for
striking his ganger with a shovel — Strickland,
K.C.B , says Australian horse is best war-horse in
the world. Australian ass thinks ditto of himse f.
Rough water around the Roper wreck treated
to a dose of oil on Tuesday, with fair results. Take
oil to stop motion is a new idea— P. Beattie,
Queensland M.P., andW. Beattie, South Australian
publican, both suffered buggy wreck last week;
former cut his legs, latter his stick for kingdom
come Edward Bunce toed the line for exposing
bad meat for sale in the Victoria Market (Melb.)
He is now exposed himself—but not for sale. Oh,
dear no. He had a lot of lambs, portions of which
were unfit to be eaten. So, like the Victorian
politician who is alleged to have plastered tar over
the cracked iron pipes, Edward covered the bad
places with healthy fat, and innocently looked out
for customers. But he did more. He whittled
down old sheep and tried to pass them off as lambs.
Fined £20, with the assurance that it would be £30
next time—Up North, one inquisitive member
wanted to know “ whether or not. it was a tact that
out of 5(5 islanders recruited for Port Mackay, who
had ax-rived in the Jane Stewart at Flat Top Island
early in 1881, 43 were sent on to the Bur-
dekin, or some other place, against their
will, and without the sanction ot the Police
Magistrate or Polynesian Inspector ? ” There
are a lot of things about the Polynesian slave-
trade that Ax-chibald Foi-bes doesn’t know yet
Mr. Henry Ebenezer Barff, of “Sydney Univer-
sity,” has been sitting on the Evening Alfred, for
a perversion of facts in reference to lectux-e fees.
Mr. Barff may be successful in showing that Alfx-ed
has exaggerated, but his own statement of the case
hax-dly hears out the gag so repeatedly used at
Commemox-ation time by the Chancellor, that the
“doors of the University are alike open to the poor
studexxt and the rich.” Riley, the New England
mail robbex-, has his peculiarities. W hen you look
down the open end of his pistol, it’s something like
when a brick falls on your head fx-om a four-storey
bouse—you don’t seem to know where you are,
what it’s all about, or where he sprang from. He
disappears just as suddenly. The police have
never yet clapped eyes on him—at least so they
say. Clever fellow, Riley A grand tin mine. 100
tons splendid ore got by six men in one week at
the Ironclad claim, Watsonville, N.Q In Mel-
bourne, the other night, an M.P. and two J’s.P.
went for a lark. They commenced by lighting
their pipes in the ladies’ resex-ve of a popular
restaurant and wound up by subjecting a police-
man to what he himself describes as “ humiliating
treatment’’—whatever that means TheTuthills
ax-c up to their necks in it again. It is Sir John,
baronet of that ilk, this time. Ten days ago, at
Newtown, he was sentenced to tlix-ec months’ hax-d
labour for indecency The Hillsxon News has
changed bands—A huge kauri pine plantation
has been established by the Queensland Govern-
ment ou Eraser’s Island, Wide Bay... The shire of
Lexton, Vic., has been indicted for a public nui-
sance. ...At Bourke, D. G. Falkner, teamster, was
run over by the fore wheel of his waggon, which
crushed his skull to fragments. His four little
children were with him at the time—121 single
female immigrants arrived at Port Chalmers the
other day, and, according to a local paper, “were
inspected first by the reporters.” The River
Estate, Mackay. Q., bought by Robert Bruce
Ronald for £80,000. Lowness of price attributed to
the unsettled state of the coloured labour ques-
tion Thus the editor of our bucolic contempo-
rary, the Cooma Express:—“We will feel obliged
if the Commercial Bank management will in future
send respectful messengers to our office, and not
upstart puppies, who address their elders with un-
due fan illarity.” The Temora Herald is dead.
Within a black border the Temora Star has the
following:—“ Expired, after a fitful and somewhat
chequered existence, the Temora Herald,
mourned by an appreciative community. Dc nwr-
lute nil nisi In mu in." The joke is that no two rival
editors ever fought or snarled so much since the
foundation of the world At Walgett, some
cowardly scoundrel poisoned a horse by sprinkling
strychnine in lucerne hay — Thadeus O’Kane
doesn’t see why Queensland gaols should be turned
into Coolie and Chinese boarding-houses. He sug-
gests a tax on sugar in order to cover the cost of
maintaining coolies and other vagrants introduced
by sugar planters for their special industry—At
Return Creek, N.Q., George Dumain, miner, blew
out his brains with a revolver The Menindie
people want a doctor. Men in that district have
travelled 100 miles and upwards to Menindie for
medical treatment, without being able to obtain it.
... At Cairns, N.Q., Swallow and Ariell have cleared
800 acres dense scrub, and have planted it with
cane. They are now nearly ready to take their
first crushing with a 3000-ton mill—In a far-off
country called N.S.W., a rural teacher sent a re-
turn of rent d e from January to J une—33 weeks.
The return was sent back for correction, as only
33 6-7th weeks had elapsed. Would that we knew
that returning officer, or, rather, his tailor and
shoemaker. He is so precise that we are pre-
pared to give long odds they have not seen
the colour of his money for many a day—
A Tasmanian hostess, whose hotel had long enjoyed
immunity from prosecution for trading after-
hours, was recently swooped down on by the con-
stable. When asked how she accounted for
Robert’s excess of zeal, she replied: “Well, you
see, I had no objection to finding Him in free drinks
and a pound-note now and again, but the scoundrel
wanted half the takings, and it wasn’t good
enough.” This reminds one of Ouida’s “ Village
Commune:”—An “ old pioneer,” 80 year’s of age, has
been sent to gaol at Ballarat for cutting saplings
fora living. He left fhecourt sighing; “It’sacoid
world, my masters.”. ..Timothy Stephenson, of
Dunedin, ex-bank-clerk, being denied access to his
children, went up to his wife, from whom
he had been separated, and held a dynamite
cartridge with lighted fuse between himself and
her. Their heads were blown off One of the
Logan postmasters has hit upon the right plan at
last. He has a thoroughbred bulldog with a mouth
and a face which may be described as ‘My gracious 1’
He says that after the arrival of the night mail the
letters will be delivered till 8.15p.m., after which
hour the bulldog is loose N.Z. House of Repre-
sentatives has refused leave to introduce a Bill to
repeal the Contagious Diseases Act Last week
H. H. Field, botanist, of Sydney, choked to death
while at tea, by a piece of meat . Wright, of the
“ Works,” is not in favour of the construction of a
tramway or light line of railway from Sydney to
Gladesville and Rydc. A lot of big property
owners are trying to roll logs in re this matter
The Admiralty Court hold the captain and second
officer of the Waitara responsible for the recent
collision of that steamer with the Hurunui
Minister Reid, in throwing open those junior-
clerkships in his department to the pupils of Syd-
ney and suburban public schools alone, has been
guilty of an act of gross injustice. This is not Reid
—and Right, by any means! At Bourke • how,
W. and T. C. Dixon, of Yarrawln, exhibited the
champion ram. .On Saturday, premises of Hughes,
cordial seller, and Thoms, draper, Newcastle,
burned. Thoms run in for alleged arson... F. Morse,
a private detective, fined £10 or two months, tor
personating a N.S. W. detective 1500 unclaimed
umbrellas and walking sti ks at the office
of the Sydney Metropolitan Transit Commis-
sion, besides hats, rugs, bags, books, etc., etc
The Government of New Caledonia have placed
£3000 upon their urgent expenses as a sub-
sidy for a steam service with New Zealand
The West Coast Times office, Hokitika. N.Z., is
lighted by electricity 40 miles additional railway
were opened in N.Z. last year. Total cost of the
opened lines, £10,470,878. Last year’s receipts were
£893,878, or an increase of £01,331 over the previous
year, despite a reduction equal to £40,000 on grain
freights, and a concession in passenger fares. The
increase in number of passengers carried was
371,901; in haulage, 137,079 tons; in live stock
carried, 130,030. Expenditure was £533,000, and net
revenue, £300,530, equal to £3 8s. lOd. per cent, on
the capital cost of the open railways —Charters
Towers’ annual yield of gold is of the value of
£300,000, and the stone gives the comparatively
high average of l)4oz. to the ton—A bore put
down on Messrs. Butcher and Brodribb’s Mount
Arrowsmith Station lias struck a fine supply of
fresh water, at a depth of 185 feet. Before the bore
could be gut up, the waf er rose upwards of 50feet.
Three different stria ms of inferior water were
come upon before t he good water was struck —
At Port. Douglas (N. Q.) a Roman Catholic
priest accused Mr. Mestrez, the telegraph-
master, of divulging the contents of a message.
An official inquiry was held, and Mr. Mestrez com-
pletely exonerated. His reverence has promised
to make reparation.
• * •
It is in contemplation to form a rifle asso-
ciation from amongst the officials engaged in the
Royal Courts and kindred London legal offices.
Why, hang it, what are legal guilds but a " ritie
association,” anyhow ? " Rifle their clients, you
know James Carey has “gone east” (that’s to
Australia), but without a reward or a pardon—
The persons who couldn’t get into the Kremlin to
witness the coronation of the Czar remained out-
side (Jeames need scarcely have told us that),
praying—we can believe that, too—that the derned
exclusiveness of the arrangements might meet
with an adequate amount of condemnation in
Kingdom Come The dimensions of the sus-
pension bridge over the East River, between New
York and Brooklyn, are as under: Towers between
which the cables are suspended, 371 feet in height ;
length of main span in the middle of the river,
1595)4 feet; height from river at high water, 135)4
feet. Main cables, 15% inches in diameter; weight
of the four, 3588 tons; strength of each, 13,300tons.
Total length of wire, 14,060 miles; of wrapping
wire, 343 miles. Weight of anchorages, 60,000 tons
each; of the anchor plates, 33 tons each. The New
York tower has 46,945 cubic yards of masonry; the
Brooklyn tower, 38,314. The bridge has two rail-
road tracks, tracks for four teams, two each way,
and a wide path for foot passengers.. . During the
last ten years, 17 Englishmen have left more than
one million sterling, 53 more than half a million,
and 195 more than a quarter of a million — Hovas
made two ineffectual attempts to retake Tamatave
....British ship Taymouth Castle boarded by
French at Tamatave, and mails overhauled.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“Fuck He has struck a new brand 0 f
whisky.... “J.B.P.”: To hand.....“ J.S.F.S.”: Wflj
r ad and consider—“L.M. ; Received— Tas-
manite”: Thanks “B.H.” (Twee ■ River);
Next week.... “ A Scientific Election : Some day
, ..“ B.T.A.”: Thank you... “G.B.C.’ ; Please call
ait this office “ Blind Creek ”: We have already-
read, somewhere or other, a story very much like:
your “Thrilling Adventure.”. ...“Simpleton”:
Nom-de-plume very appropriate. You ought to
drop your “ Kellick ” and come to an anchor with
respect to writing sporting pars....” Alpha ”: The-
tack yarn is as old as the most venerable William-
goat. ..." Ring up ”: Glad to hear l rom you again
.. “ Markwell ": No, it was another Dux-ant. Mr..
A. Durant, of the Arm you name, is the high-toned
young gentleman who visited Australia five years
ago “E.J.”: You can’t buy anything such as
real “ Fruit Salt.” The so-called Fruit Salts are
merely mixtures acid-and-alkall, and have a
close afflnitv to sherbet and seidlitz-powders, Ac. ..
“ A.D.C.”; Please call....” X.”: When a N.8.W.
mounted constable out back has to go 100 miles or
so to deliver a summons, he has to provide hlsown
travelling expenses. When a big-screwed dignitary
has to move around on duty, he gets a special
extra allowance “J- W. Slade”: We quite
agree with M. Bonjeau, that there is usually more
to be done with a juvenile who has proved him-
self a desperado, than with a meek youngster; on
just the same grounds, we could place more confi-
dence in an out and out Nihilist, than an affable
C.M.G. The meek mostly arc blessed—rogues ..
“Marnoo Write to the Weekly Jezebel—“u.
Wareham Mr. G. Ernest Morrison has been hx
New Guinea before, we believe—on a visit to the
“mission” station at Pox-t Moresby — “J. S. F.
Scott”: Wo want anything that’s good, and
forcible....” Allyce ” (Stanmoi-e): We have made
some inquiry, and, as far as we can gather, your
representations are malicious and unfounded.
However, we’ll see for ourselves “W.H.R.”
(Emex-aldHill): Trash..“William Locke”: For good-
ness sake send the key to your Locke. Wo don’t
understand a .word ot it.. . “ E.J.M.”: No, but it
was stated the other day that Dr. Beaney had
bought into the Melbourne D.T .“ Armidale
“ Half-cx-own Wilkins,” we believe, is now a book-
seller “M.E.A.”: Thanks ...“R.D.”: A power-
ful piece of verse. Always glad to hear fx-om you.
“J.P.”: Sox-ry we can't print it. Mr. H’s inten-
tions ax-c ever so much better than his versifica-
tion .. “W.J.E.M.”; There’s nothing very wonder-
ful in the removal of the tongue for oancer. The
operation is frequently performed all over Aus-
tralia “Fancy”: Thanks, very nice item.
Sorry for “mixing xxp.”. . " W.C.” (Wagga): Utter-
est ixonense “C.E.F.” and “A.U.T.” (Yass);
Thanks, but private affairs must be very brief
“H.K.F.”: Only of local interest—“H.H.”: Write
to the Postal Dept “Motus”: Whether right
or not', it’s a very old practice.
We do not undertake to return rejected
communications. Writers should keep copies.
We are desirous of procuring short stories
of colonial interest, not exceeding two Bulletin
columns. We ax-e also desirous of receiving commu-
nications fx-om ladies on subjects of social Interest.
For such matters we are prepared to pay liberally.
Suggestions for sketches are always welcome.
London now has four vegetarian restau-
rants.
The Victorian papers are growling because
an up-country receiver and paymaster went for a
short holiday to Melbourne without making any
provision for the payment of accounts, during his
absence. A number of people had money coming
to them from the State, and their bankers were
anxious tor a squaring-up. But these press people
growl ft anything. There’s no satisfying them.
The man wanted a little relaxation, so he simply
locked the door, chucked the key down a shaft,
and struck south.


Oriental
Magnificent Metal—the latest discovery of
science—puts in the shade every substitute for
sterling gold ever offered to the public. The best
imitations heretofore produced are entirely super-
seded and surpassed by the
Brilliant Lustre and Enduring Beauty
of the new alloy. So admirable is its appearance
and quality, that the discoverers have not stooped
to apply it to common uses. No tawdry articles of
inferior design are manufactured of ORIENTAL
GOLD. It is worked up into
JEWELLERY OF THE BEST CLASS AND MOST
TASTEFUL DESIGNS ONLY,
And is perfectly indistinguishable from the most
cost.y Jewellery.
The highest grades of Sterling Gold Jewellery
may be placed side by side with articles of Oriental
Gold, and the most experienced experts fail to dis-
tinguish one from the other.
The Oriental Gold Co.
Have Opened a
SYDNEY BRANCH IN GEORGE STREET,
Exactly opposite the Central Entrance to the Mar-
kets, where they have presented to public view
An Assortment of Unequalled Beauty
At Prices which represent only a fraction of the
cost of Sterling Gold Jewellery of Identical
Workmanship.
RESIDENTS of SYDNEY and VISITORS from
the COUNTRY are respectfully invited to Inspect
our Goods. We count it no trouble to show them,
and no injury if no purchase is made.
We are glad to have visitors, because we know
that our goods please everyone, and that those who
do not purchase will speak of our Jewellery to
their acquaintance in a way that will do us service’
We want to do business with people throughout
Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
PARCELS BY POST ON APPROVAL.
To save customers the trouble of compiling a
list, we make up useful and attractive lists as
follows
No. 1.
Gentleman’s Watch, horizontal movement,
Oriental Gold case, open face with crys-
tal glass, with handsome Oriental Gold
Albert, for ; '£300
ONLY!
355e
This cut is the exact size
and appearance of
THE REVOLVER for ONEPOUND!
A beautifully-finished article, nickel-plated through-
out, vulcanite stock. 32 calibre ; 5 shot.
Sent to any part of Australia or New Zealand for £1.
Oriental Gold Company, 474 George-st., Sydney.
No. 2,
Same as above, except that the watch has
hunting: case, for ..300
13F” Please observe. We do not pretend that
these are flfty-gruinea watches ; but we do affirm
that they are good, honest watches, excellent time-
keepers, articles which do us credit and give satis-
faction to our customers. In appearance they are
indistinguishable from expensive gold watches.
No. 3.
Gentleman’s Silver English Hunting Lever
Watch, capped and jewelled, with Ori-
£6 0 0
The watch in the above parcel is a first-class
article, such as is usually sold at from six to seven
guineas. We deal direct with the manufacturers,
and on a large scale, and thus we get special terms,
and are enabled to share the advantage with our
customers. The Jewellery, we need scarcely say,
can’t be told from sterling gold articles. The work-
manship is identical with the best. Thus, by buy-
ing this watch from us, purchasers, as a matter of
fact, secure the other articles as a free gift.
No. 4.
A genuine Waltham Watch, nickel case,
open face, crystal glass, as supplied to
the N.S. Wales Railway Department,
with splendid Oriental Gold Albert .. £3 0 0
No. 5.
Same as No. 4, except that the Watch has
sterling silver hunting case, with chain
as before .. .. .. .. .. 3 10 0
Note.—We buy these watches by the thousand’;
otherwise we could not sell them at the price.
Sportsmen, Bicyclists, Pedestrians, and
Oarsmen—Observe I
No. 6.
A Racing Chronograph nickel-cased watch,
double dials, splendid timekeepers,
with patent fly-back, marking quarter
seconds, with Oriental Gold Albert .. £4 0 0
No. 7.
Same as above, except that this case is
silver instead of nickel, with Oriental
Gold Chain 550
Ladies I Please Note.
No. 8.
_iady’s Oriental Gold Watch, handsomely
chased case, full jewelled, highly-
finished works, with handsome treble
chain, two slides and two tassels, of
Oriental Gold, only 3 15 0
The above is a gift which will astonish any re-
cipient. Each article is thoroughly good. The
action of the watch is identical with what is put
into sterling gold cases, of same design, and sold
for £8 and £10, and there is no difference in the
appearance.
No. 9.
Lady’s Oriental Gold Brooch and Earrings £0 15 0
Lady’s exquisite Necklet and Locket, Ori-
ental Gold 1 15 0
Lady’s gem set Gold Ring (real stones) .. 0 10 0
£3 0 0
The above is a gift packet, specially selected
from our stock at specially low rates for the assort-
ment.
The foregoing are but a few assortments speci-
fied to save customers the trouble of making a list.
It will be sufficient when ordering to give the
number of the lot, and enclose P.O.O. for the
amount Payable to The Oriental Gold Co.
Specally Observe.—If the articles do not an-
swer expectation on receipt, re-pack them at once
and send them back. If this is done within two
days, or, where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured, wo
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will return the
money for the articles not kept.
Every watch sold by us will be rated and accom-
panied by a written warranty for two years.
Wo have a very large stock of Earrings, Brooches,
ladies and gent’s Alberts, Bings set with real stones,
crystals, and Alaska diamonds, emeralds, rubies,
and Italian pearls ; Lockets, Necklets, Collarettes,
Fancy Charms, Breast-pins, Studs, Solitaire Neck
Studs (some very splendid Alaska brilliants). The
prices vary.
Send us from £1 to £10, with a list of what you
want, and we will make a choice for you to the
best of our judgment and forward same. If not
approved, and immediately returned, we will
refund as above, or make any desired substitution-
Note the Address . 474 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Markets.
VIRTUTIS GLORIA MERGES.
COALCLIFF COAL.
This NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY supplies the CHEAPEST, CLEANEST, and
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming 1 Coal in the Colony,
£1 per Ton net, delivered within city bounds.
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and bars’kept well free from ash, makes a stronger,
more lasting, and cleaner Are that any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky flare and soot of
Newcastle coal, nor does it splinter and fly off like the Western, but it affords that domestic desideratum
of some kinds of English coal of heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a
charcoal or breeze fire, while it imparts to the steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwhole-
some fumes given off by a breeze or gas fire,
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
Office: A. B. BLACK, 247 George Street.
igr DEPOT : WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
BOOTH’S
Hydropathic Bathing Establishment,
Corner of College & Oxford Sts., Hyde Park.
THE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO.
&
arc the largest consumers of American
, Leaf in the colonies, hence the FIRST
position for quality is assigned to their Twist
and Flat Tobaccos —Yankee Doodle, Conqueror, Sir Roger (thick
twist), R. C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture, and others.
CIGARETTES. —Their CONQUEROR and EARLY 151R I ) hold an equal position.
£3P'’”D. & S., Importers of Pipes of every kind, Cigars, and all Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods and Sundries.
H. P. GREGORY. H. SHAW SMITH. S. W. GREGORY.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers & M achineryM ts
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR
Fay & Co.’s Woodworking Machinery Korting’s Injectors
Tanite Co.’s Emery Wheels and Machines Eclipse Windmills
Blake’s Brass-lined Special Steam Pumps Sturtevant’s Fans.
A LARGE. STOCK OF THE ABOVE ALWAYS IN OUR STORES,
as well as all
SAW MILL, PLANING MILL, AND MINING REQUISITES,
17 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
A. A. DEBNEY & CO.,
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
PORTMANTEAUX, BAGS.
jg“ TRUNKS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
A. A. DEBNEY & CO.,
Have just opened a large Shipment of Superior
Eg” HOSIERY, MERCERY, SCARFS, TIES,
COLLARS, and EVERY REQUISITE
FOR GENTLEMEN’S TOILETS.
SHIRTS z
Cut after the Latest London Styles, by an expe-
rienced London Cutter.
N.B.—Country Orders receive Special Atteutiuu.
A. A. DEBNEY & CO.,
Successors to Hobson and .Whiting,
13 HUNTER STREET,
MULLIXEH, LEAJIINGTOJi.-STAN-
HOPE PHAETONS ; DOG, TANDEM, and
SPORTING CARTS; Barouches, Laudaus, Coaches,
Harness, &c., Builder to H.M. the Queen, H.I.M.
the Empress of Austria, His Grace the Duke
of Beaufort, &c., &c. Orders telegraphed (30s.)
and executed in seven weeks. English prices.
Coloured designs of latest fashions kept in stock.
WILKINSON, WILLIAMS &, CO.,
Roylk’s Chambkbs, Bond Stkfet, Sydnuy,
Sole Agents for Australia, New Zealand, Tasmania.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
The World thinks that Mrs. Campbell
Praed, the Queensland novelist, is improving In
her art. Her first book, was positively revolt-
ing. Her second, is only stupid.
John Davies, C.M.6., is being congratu-
lated by the Orangemen “ on his success in the
slander action.” On his what? Does the congratu-
lation apply to the farthing, or does it merely
include the costs ? “ One more such victory, etc.
It will be remembered that one of Alpha-
betical John’s principal reasons for upholding
Mrs. Bardwell’s claims was that “ she was an
excellent French scholar.” John evidently studied
French so hard that ho quite forgot his English.
Sara Bernhardt is universally supposed to
be very fragile, but when she got her life Insured
quite lately, in favour of her son, the “ accidental
Maurice, nve medical men each concurred that
she has splendid health and strength. Immediately
on leaving the stage after her great and exhaust
ingscene In “Fedora,” her pulse was comparatively
calm, at 76 a minute.
Doesn’t the wind-up of that S.M. Herald
sub-leader mean. If it means anything at all, that
Mr. Archibald Forbes, after getting married in
America, will return to Sydney and take a promi-
nent and permanent position in the Herald officer
Anyhow, the last few lines of the article confirm
the outside rumour that something of the kind is
on the tapis.
Union is strength. But was it a very
strong thing on the part of that big section of the
Union Club who objected to admit Archibald
Forbes to the privileges of honorary membership i
Of course one must draw the line somewhere.
The Union Club, apparently, draws it at intel-
lectual vigour and force of character. A lecturer
is not fit to associate with —good heavens!—whom ?
We have to announce the death of another
old colonist at the age of 78, the relict of the late
Philip Elliott, surveyor of the Blue Mountains,
under Sir Thomas Mitchell, Mrs. Elliott was born
in this city, on Brickfield Hill, and was the eldest
child of the late James Wilshire, father of the late
Hon. James Robert Wilshire, M.L.C., who came to
Sydney as an Imperial Service officer, in the year
1S00.
It’s never too late to mend. Harry Power,
the once notorious bushranger, who is now 65
years old, is to be let loose from Pentndge next
October; and it is stated on good authority that he
will be employed as a shearer on the station of a
lady whose fad is the salvation of the aborigines.
More power to her. And If the gentle bandit only
fleeces sheep half as clean as he used to fleece his
fellow-men, that lady has made quite a grand in-
vestment.
Otto Fischer, who was chosen for the S.A.
Musical Scholarship, sang on the operatic stage
as a member of Simonson's remarkable com-
pany, and made, probably, the very worst Valen-
tine (“Faust”) ever Invented by Incompetent
man. It Is alleged that the examiners selected
Otto on the ground of his “promise,” and that, if
he can manage to obtain a new voice and good
presence, we may hear further of him in the
remote future.
The captain of a mail steamer voyaging to
a South African colony had, as passenger, a colonial
Governor. On landing, the Governor invited the
captain to call at Government House: and one day
the captain did call. Well, the door was opened by
a decently-dressed and apparently well-behaved
female, who informed him that Sir So-and-so was
not in. He gave her his card, and tipped her halt-
a-crown (couldn't do less, out of respect for the
Crown). The party who received the tip was the
Governor’s wire 1
Sir Alexander Mathescn, the father of a
young gentleman who was making a tour of the
Australian colonies, has given a ball at his London
House in Hill-street, in honour of his son’s return.
Vanity says the ball was very lively, and that all
the young dancing men in London were present.
Very probable, if Mr. Matheson Is as popular in
London as he was in the Sydney dancing monde.
It was a pity he waltzed away from our shores
without choosing a partner for life. He was a
Great Opportunity.
A few years ago, Mar wood, the British
hangman, visited Usk, Monmouthshire, to suspend
one Joseph Garcia, who had murdered a whole
family at Llanbuddook. Well, after he had " put
through” Mr. Garcia, he started for the railway
station, and on the way met several hundred col-
liers, who picked him up and carried him on their
shoulders to the train, shouting, “You done
you-a-r-r duty well —like a man,” &o. Well,
gentlemen,” replied old Choke-’em, “ I shall never
forget Usk, and the gentlemanly way I have been
treated here. I hope I shall soon have the pleasure
of visiting you again.”
“ Wiohever you likes, my dears. You paid
your money and you has your choice,” the snow-
man is said to have remarked when a lad asked
to hav© Napoleon and Wellington pointed out. At
a lecture delivered a few nights before his depar-
ture, Archibald Forbes made the portrait of Osman
Pasha do duty for General Gourko. The mistake,
of course, was remedied as soon as discovered, but
there is no reason to suppose the discourse would
have been less interesting had it not been dis-
covered at all. Such is fame. It reminds one ot
Lord and his gardener. Putting his head
through a broken pane in his library, in 1853, bis
Lordship sang out: "The Duke of Wellington is
dead.” “I’m werry sorry my lord,” said the man,
simply, but “who wor he?”
Mrs. Gillespie, of Bombay, had a Mahorae-
dan cook. She discharged him for objecting to
grease his hair with pork fat. But he had his re-
venge. At three a.m. on the day following his
“sack,” he got into Mrs. G.’s house. Having se-
cured all the trinkets and things he could find, he
next went into the lady’s dressing-room, and,
taking a pair of scissors, cut all her best dresses
into little bits. Then he entered the bed-room,
and, leaning over the sleeping woman, started to
cut off her hair. It is in this latter outrage that
the real interest of the story lies. It shows how use-
less it is to attempt to civilise those Orientals. Now,
if this had been a Syd iey “slavey,” do you think
she would stop at her “ missus’s ” hair. She might,
of course, wind up with the hair, but trust her for
starting on Mrs. G.’s throat. No. You can never
civilise Asiatics.
The largest contributor to Victorian land
tax fund is Sir William J. Clarke, who possesses ten
distinct estates, comprising 181,435 acres, and pays
in land tax annually £4611. Next to him in acreage
owned stand the trustees of the late John Moffatt,
with 99,117 acres; and close upon them, Sir Samuel
Wilson, with 94,863 acres. The Moffatt estate is far
less valuable than that of the Lord of Ercildoune,
for while the bulk of the Moffatt possessions are
fourth-class land, carrying less than a sheep to the
acre, no less than 35,000 acres of Sir Samuel’s are
classified as of the first and second order. The tax
paid, in the case of the Wilson property, is £3399 3s
8d., as against Moffatt’s £1331 7s 6d. Thomas and
Andrew Chirnslde, joint owners with their
nephews, Logan and Forbes, possess 354,659 acres,
yielding to the revenue in taxation £406116s.
Archibald Forbes, as a travelling com-
panion, is almost as genial as was Anthony Trol-
lope. Ho was, Indeed, beloved of all stewards. On
his voyage from Invercargill to Hobart one morn-
ing, porridge, which is understood to be his national
dish, was placed before the great war correspon-
dent. “Take it away!” indignantly exclaimed
that worthy; “it is only fit for pigs!” Now, a lot
of other passengers were eating porridge. A lady
sends us this story—which, as Archibald, who is a
six-foot-odd dragoon, and heavy, is at a very safe
distance from Sydney Heads, we haven’t the least
hesitation in printing. Dr. Johnson’s landlady, we
remember, once offered him porridge, and, like the
unhappy steward of the Te Anau, was told that
“ it was food for pigs.” “ Then,” replied she,
sweetly, “let me offer you some more, doctor.’
The Union Co.’s steward didn’t dare to say a thing
like that.
iJaron Munkacsy, a Hungarian, is at pre-
sent society’s pet painter. His “Christ before
Pilate,” two years ago, was pronounced sublime ;
it was a masterpiece of originality and cleverness.
Art people in London enthused on it, and when
the picture was exhibited <.n the Continent, there
were (especially in Hungary) general holidays
when it entered the town. Most groat artists
allow no one to see their picture in the process of
incubation, they count on the sudden surprise of
its first complete unfoldment. But Munkacsy has
not this shynesss of genius ; he allows connois-
seurs to see his work at any moment. It shows
his high confidence in his own powers. The Baron
lives hi one of the most gorgeous houses in Paris.
He was a trunkmaker in a little shop, so runs the
legend, and used to paint the trunks he sold. Then
a great artist came one day, “ discovered ” him,
sent him to school, and ho is now great. The old
story of about 75 per cent, of those artist people,
you know. He married a rich man’s widow, and
it is she who has arranged his splendid mansion.
He is a big, groyhaired man, who just paints and
paints away.
There is a missionary named Campbell—
Peter he is familiarly called. Some think him a
saint, and others don’t. There is, however, no
doubt at all about his being a-just so—a really
good and clever man, who knows his work and
performs It in that quiet, unostentatious manner
which is sure to be rewarded some day. Halle-
lujah ! Peter is up Barringuu way now. Barrln-
giin, according to the local journal, is “ full up with
petty gamblers, sharpers, larrikins, rowdies, and
others.” One of these is a half-demented jockey,
whom the paper refers to as the “sporting idiot.’
So, one night last week, Peter, who had been lec-
turing on honesty and its converse, found that
quite a number of these nice people were endea-
vouring to force a way Into his bedroom. Foiled
in their efforts, the mob waited till morning, when
the “Jeckey ” attacked the pre icher with a shovel
—a long-handled one. Peter had but a horse and a
hye n-book. The horse carried him safely away,
but not before the book had deadened the effect of
a vicious whack from the flat of the shovel. There
are still some drawbacks attending missionary
work in the bush.
There are rumours about distinctly affect-
ing the character of Sir George Innes. Every
effort has been made to keep the matters quiet,
but, as usual, the omniscience of The Bulletin
has prevailed, and we feel it a public duty, and
distinctly in the interests of the community, to
expose the whole thing. A man occupying, as
Sir George does, an important public position, can-
not claim to entirely separate his private from his
public reputation. Everybody knows what The
Bulletin thinks of Sir George as a Judge. Now,
as for his character as a man. We have positive
Information, and we challenge Sir George to deny
it, that behind his stiff and decorously formal de-
meanour he hides a really kind heart and a
tender feeling for the helpless and suffering. More
than one instance has come to our knowledge in
which Sir George Innes has stood between helpless
but deserving people and hardships. We have
heard grey-haired women speak of him with eyes
brimming with grateful recollection. As we pre-
mised, Sir George takes a lot of pains to keep
these thing# dark; but the whole affair is certain
to be brought to light sooner or later in Court —the
Court of Heaven. Jam.
The present lion of Colombo is Arab! Bey.
It was rough enough on him to see his best troops
make such a poor stand before those terrible
Highlanders at Tel-el-Kebir, but the mortification
was slight in comparison with that to which he is
now subjected. From the discontented Mussul-
mans of Ceylon and India, eager to obtain his
opinion regarding England’s strength and Mohame-
dan prospects, to the “ not-to-be-denied ” Yankee,
who, having made a “pile” in bacon, is with his
family interviewing the world’s notabilities, and
delicately explaining to them how much higher
the American eagle can soar than any of the wry-
necked, half-bald, rickety roosters representing
the rotten old monarchies of Europe—there ap-
pears to be a crowd of globe-trotters waiting to
learn wtiat they can from the unfortunate patriot
as soon as he swallows his “ morning.” He still
appears to have the same hopes, aspirations, griev-
ances, damp houses, and cheeky servants with
which most of us are familiar. He is learning
English, and had acquired sufficient acquaintance
with that fascinating tongue to assure his last
interviewer when leaving that he was “ very glad.
As he stopped there and smiled, his interlocutor
felt quite comfortable, and was not long in turning
the nearest corner.
Professor Badham writes a manly letter to
the S. M. Herald respecting the suicide of the
late Mr. Fred. Jackson, M.A. Mr. Jackson’s inti-
mates had long seen that his mind was becoming
affected. Irritability, instability of purpose, and
suspiciousness about his friends—that they were
plotting against his peace—characterized him of
late, all these conditions being, as Professor Bad-
ham mentions, quite foreign to Mr. Jackson’s
character. We can heartily endorse the Pro-
fessor’s statements. We knew Mr. Jackson a little
when In good health, and a more cheerful, genial,
and hearty dispositioned gentleman we never met.
Mr. Jackson had a flourishing school at Glebe
Point, which he used to conduct with admirable
judgment. The tone he imparted to his pupils
was a wholesome and manly one. They were in-
spired to cultivate generous, straightforward ways.
Anything like sneaking or tale-bearing was treated
as disgraceful, and among boys of kmdred spirit,
the late Mr. Jackson was held in high regard and
downright affection. Poor Jackson was, in fact,
before mental perturbation affected him, a line
sterling: fellow atfcr the Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, pat-
tern, and his tragical death is a very sad close to a
life which promised to have left an abiding ana
elevating influence on a part of the rising genera-
tion.
Uncle Tom is dead. We cannot honestly
say we are sorry. We have had our eye on this old
chap for some time; and, when from year to year,
the papers reported his premature decease at 97,
we smiled grimly—for we knew better. But he is
planted in earnest this time. Perhaps more people
have cried over “Uncle Tom’s Cabin” than over
the death of Smike or little Dombey. But there is
one serious blot in this old gentleman's career. On
reaching Canada and freedom, he first rolled in the
sand and then turned Methodist parson. Had he
opened a whisky-saloon, or started bookmaking,
there would be some reason in it. He went to Eng-
land twice, and was introduced to Royalty on the
last occasion. It was at one time thought that he
would obtain the billet of doll’s eye polisher and
general knock-about man for the young Princesses,
but John Brown was alive at the time; and, as he
had a down upon niggers and Irishmen, poo,- old
Tom’s application was pigeon-holed. And, after
all, the old man didn’t die before he was completely
I played out. He long survived the popularity of
Mrs. Beecher Stowe’s book. Somebody was telling
us the other day that on board the Great Britain,
on one of her trips to Australia in 1853, there were
counted 180 copies of “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin.” Who
reads it now ? It’s as dead as “ Sandford and Mer-
ton.”
Some one dumped a couple of blue-books
down on our desk this morning. One was the
N.S.W. Education report for 1883. Prom the
I hasty glance we have taken, it appears to us to be
choke-full of information both useful and interest-
ing. But, in all sincerity, we would ask, beseech—
demand, if necessary—from the Department what
is the moaning of Appendix XVII., page 103,
entitled “Testimonials in favour of Miss C. M.
Mallett ?” What is it apropos of, who is Miss
Mallett, and why should a age and a fraction of a
public report be devoted to telling us how well she
understands (so the testimonials run) “advanced
botany, ditto physical geography, drawing, animal
physiology, domestic sanitation, pedagogy, the
Kindergarten system, needlework, linen presses,
religious knowledge, and blankets.” She can also
read and write. Now all this would be Just like
“ print ” to us if a neat little introductory para-
graph informed us thar the lady was selected or
rejected for some billet under the Department.
As it is, it is positively cruel to her and the public.
But, one word more. The certificate for ‘'religi-
ous knowledge” was Issued by an Archbishop,
and an Archbishop is a poor ecclesiastic who en-
deavours to copy the gentle “ Nazarene” in every-
thing. He brings up a large family on twenty-five i
or thirty pounds a year, and his wife and daughters
are all day long scrubbing the floors and things or
attending to their sick neghbours, and have no
time to “rastle” with the piano, or acquire the
“Alexandra limp.” Yes! we envy any person
who possesses a certificate for “ xeligious know-
ledge ” from people like that.
“ Kosmos ” deals gently with the Prince of
Wales; indeed, he slobbers over him, as the first
gentleman in England, and the chief and centre of
the social life of the realm. His assiduity in dis-
charging the duties of Princedom has passed into
a proverb, and H.R.H. has become the symbol of
that exuberant energy which makes Englishmen
the wonder of foreigners. Peace has its arduous
duties, and the Prince’s life is one triumphant
attempt to keep abreast of his engagements, a true
and bright reflection of the fiercely laborious
spirit of the British people, a type of the age.
During his vast experience, he has seen many
serious fluctuations concerning himself; but on
recovering from deathly illness some twelve years
ago, he witnessed such a demonstration of loyalty
and devotion as has seldom fallen to any Prince.
And, “ Kosmos ” assures him he need have no fear
of any republican action or tendencies. In the
long run, Royalty never falls to have its way; the
Court is an organisation of most subtly penetrating
authority; Democrats may shout their rhodomon-
tade and menace; but it is sound, and nothing
more. The Royal personages still live in splendour,
and the malcontents are only made to feel that
they are assisting at an exhibition of their own
impotence. There is an irresistible spell in the
glamour of Royalty; and Wales himself is an
adept at the art of conciliating those whose fronts
are most threatening. The most uncompromising
Democrats are disarmed by the princely suavity.
And so long as the monarchlal party are content
with dignity and splendour, striving not for actual
supremacy, “ Kosmos ” conceives they are safe—
)or the present.
In a recent American paper a long article
appeared to this effect: ,f Major John Throck-
morton died a few days ago in a lonely hut on a
Mississipi plantation. His last moments were
haunted by the thought that Ellen Goodwin was
still shadowing him.” Well, to that brief announce-
ment hangs a tale. Ten years ago, the papers were
full of a strange trial; Major Throckmorton
charged a woman with Insanity. Though her con-
duct had been incredibly strange, she was acquitted
by the jury, who pronounced her sane. This is
her story, as it came out at the trialTwenty-five
years before, when Ellen Goodwin was a beautiful
girl, John Throckmorton had met her, seduced,
and left her. But love for him had become her
whole existence; she could not do without him,
base as he was. His visits became at longer inter-
vals, and then ceased. Then, half dazed, she
“shadowed” him. She waited for him every
morning at his residence and his office, at his meals
aud hl8 g Xb or when he travelled; he could not
tire her neither cold nor heat nor ram nor sleep-
her jSSS-tatt « to**** KS°K'r“Ifrg!S
Si trfrte“eS ; {uSS her, but thS
inrv believed her story and the woman was re-
®ed For two she eased off; then com-
menced again. Throckmorton savagely assaulted
her- she was again tried for insanity, and again
acquitted. But twenty-seven years of shadow-
ing ” and suffering broke her down, and Ellen
Goodwin went to her long rest. Four yeara after-
wards Major Throckmorton died, weary and deso-
late, with the haunting of that shadow casting
gloom on his dying bed. The scene was Louis-
ville, and Throckmorton was a scion of one of the
proudest aristocratic families m the State. There s
a big moral here. Young man, when you go a-
mashing, remember that you may be “shadowed.”
Cooktown has at last received a visit from
royalty. Koapena. the ruler of a leading New
Guinea tribe, landed there some days ago. He is
fit? lUin high and very broad. He wears imported
slops" andTnotyet converted although well on
the road, for his Scriptural teaching has now
oHranwii as far as King David, whom he desires to
kno\? monfabout. Once he was the most warlike
chieftain in New Guinea, but there has been a
falling off of late. Heads were not coming in fast
enough, so ho took in his sign and invited the mis-
sionaries to his place-at least, so the missionaries
say. Two sons and three other followers attend
him. The followers are of much inferior physique
to their “ boss. ”
The other day the dailies stated that one
of the Guiteau jury had gone mad. At the trial,
the iuror in question was of opinion that Garfield s
murderer was insane, but he stood alone in his
opinion, and allowed his judgment to be tempo-
rarily oVer-ruled. The affair has since preyed on
his mind, and so worried his brain cells, that he is
now a hopeless lunatic. We have now read a long
article in an American medical journal, m which it
is stated that “ the majority of physicians, whose
opinions are worth anything on the subject, are
now outspoken in the belief that the man was pro-
foundly insane and was improperly executed.
The death of Dr. George M Beard, who, as the
representative of the American Association for the
Protection of the Insane, was expected to open the
discussion by reading a paper on the Medico-
Legal Questions involved in the Case of the late
Charles J. Guiteau,” temporarily disarranged the
plans of the little knot of able men who
have interested themselves in obtaining a
reversal of the popular, or at least the medi-
cal, judgment on the question whether Guiteau
was properly convicted and executed. It
would now appear that Guiteau was unques-
tionably an insane man, and that he was hanged in
deference to popular prejudice and clamour. The
newspapers were hoodwinked into publishing as
the official report of the microscopic experts who
examined Guiteau’s brain some editorial com-
ments and interpolations that gave an altogether
erroneous rendering of the facte. The idea has
gone forth that Guiteau’s brain was not seriously
diseased, and that such changes from the healthy
condition as were actually discovered were not of
the kind that indicate insanity. What Prof. J. W
S Arnold, Dr. E. O. Shakespeare and Dr. J. C.
M‘Connell—appointed by Dr. Lamb to make the
examination—really did say in conclusion was:
“ Your committee have no hesitation whatever in
affirming the existence of unquestionable evi-
dence of decided and settled disease of the minute
blood-vessels in numerous minute diffused areas,
accompanied by alterations in the cell elements in
the specimens of the brain submitted to their
examination. While the lesions were most marked
in the striated body and the frontal section of the
cerebral convolutions, yet they very diffusely per-
vaded aU portions of the organ.” “The facts
stated by the committee,” said Dr. Spitzka, indi-
cate that disease dated back for many years. The
lesions were diffuse, not local; involved the mem-
branes, the convolutions, the deep-seated centres,
and the white substance; and the nerve cells
showed the results of long continued and slowly
produced disturbance, with an extensive degree of
atrophy established in the layers of the convolu-
tions.” In the presentation of the subject before
the American Medical Association the interpreta-
tion of such facts as those described by the com-
mittee will be referred to such European authori-
ties as Grlesinger Parchappe, Krafft-Ebing, Em-
minghaus and Kindflelsch. Able members otf the
profession, of all shades of opinion as to the merits
of the case, have not hesitated to say that the
examination of experts on the Guiteau trial forms
one of the most disgraceful episodes In the history
of medical jurisprudence, and that such a seal of
disapproval should be put upon it by the collec-
tive voice of medical men as to prevent the future
occurrence of such spectacles.
Frederick W. Kendall is dead. He lived
near Cavendish (Vic), but could not tell the long
trump from the thirteenth club at whist. He was
a “ bush ” doctor and lawyer. He was also wooden-
legged. What makes us mention Fred, at all is
the fact that he was one of the few persons who
follow an avocation while entertaining a contempt
for it. He made money by doctoring and lawyer-
ing, but he despised both. His panacea was tar-
water. With this he professed (like Sangrado) to
cure everything, from pimples on the face to
hereditary lumbago We learn that it is not, as
we Imagined, from over-excitement at the receipt
of the £60,000 windfall that Mr. Whiddon is suffer-
ing. He writes us to say it wouid take ever so
much more than that to knock him up, and we
quite believe him. We fancy, however, that we
ourselves would feel a bit put about if anyone left
us a quarter of the sum... Mr. E. S. Bonney, one ot
the pioneers of the Wilcannia part of the Darling,
who, some time ago, sold out of Momba station and
retired to England with a fortune, is dead, aged 45.
Thady O’Kane is now bringing out the North-
ern Miner as a daily On dit that Priestley, the
smug lay preacher who was r cently tried, in com-
pany with Mrs. Hamilton, for the murder of the
latter’s husband, is about to lecture in Auckland..
Mr. G. Jenkins, eldest son of Dr. Jenkins, of
Nepean Towers, is going to introduce a strain of
blue blood into the ranks of N. 8. Wales squatto-
c acy, by marrying a cousin of our noble Governor
and granddaughter of an earl.. .Old Sam Williams,
of Timaru, is dead. He was a whaler, who came
down in 1845 from Sydney. He conducted a whal-
ing station at Timaru for some years. Afterwards
he found employment with the Messrs. Rhodes.
The first house ever built in Timaru was occupied
by Williams as their overseer. In later years he
ran a pub. in Christchurch; but some while back he
returned to Timaru penniless, since which former
friends supplied his wants for sake of old times. • •
* * *
M. Damala, Sai'a Bernhardt’s husband,
quickly distinguished himself in the army in Tunis,
after quitting the stage. Three days after he ar-
rived in camp, the outposts were attacked by ban-
ditti. Damala saddled his horse, rushed headlong
into the fray, and succeeded in bringing the bandit
chief a prisoner into the French camp. Sara is
said to have telegraped for his photograph as a
souvenir... .The most eventful incident in the late
Jules Sandeau’s calm and unruffled existence was
his liaison with George Sand. He was then about
twenty, and she was five years older. The inti-
macy, meant to be eternal, lasted barely two years.
The story of their meeting, some thirty years
afterward, is told in various ways. The most pro-
bable version is this: Jules Sandeau visited the
Odeon ten years ago. When he handed in his
ticket the registrar was engaged in examining an
order just presented by a stout elderly lady. Her
eyes met Sandeau’s for an instant. Sandeau hesi-
tated, half lifted his hat, and, turning to a friend
who accompanied him, he asked: “Who is that
“There are only four Chinese on the Coen diggings, N.Q., who are living in constant
fear of murder by the blacks. They have a perfect corden of dogs chained round
at some distance from their huts.’’


The Furniture Column.
ATTRACTIONS AT THE ROYAL FURNISHING
ARCADE.
GOOD INVESTMENTS FOR EVERYBODY.
THE SALE OF SUITES CONTINUED.
Between thirty and forty to select from, pretty
patterns, and good wearing: materials. Prices
ranging from £8 10s. to 40 guineas. Australian
Suites, of nine articles, £415s. 6d.
SPECIAL LINES IN BEDSTEADS & BEDDING.
Stump Bedsteads, with palliasses, mattress, bolster
and pillow, complete, £113s. 6d.
Half-tester Bedsteads, with palliasses, mattress,
bolster and pillow, complete, £119s. 6d.
Four-post Bedsteads, 4ft. 6in. x 6ft. 61n., with
palliasses, mattress, bolster and pillows, com-
plete, £3 9s. 6d.
Flowered four-post Bedsteads, 4ft. 61n. x 6ft. 6in.,
with palliasses, kapok mattress, bolster, and
pair of feather pillows, £5 9s.
Together with many others at reduced prices.
SPECIAL LINES IN THE UPSTAIRS SHOW-
ROOM.
Four Gilt Frame Pictures for £1
Fenders, Fir© Irons, and Coal Shuttles, remarkably
cheap. Fenders from 3s.; Fancy Coal Scuttles,
with Scoops, 6s. 6d.
Bed Valances and D-iaporles of every description
Electro-plated Ware, cheap—Butter Coolers, from
3s.; Ciuets, from 5s. 6d.: Bell-top Cruets, 10s.
6d.; E.P. Tea and Coffee Services, 4 pieces, 30s.
and 35s.; Biscuit Barrels, 7s. 6d.; Honey Jars,
3s. 6d.; Toast Hacks, 6s. 6d.; Breakfast Cruets,
6s. 6d.: Cake Baskets, 10s. 6d.; Salt Cellars, 3s.
6d.; Table Napkin Rings, 6s. the half dozen ;
and many other lines.
Sets of Trays, 8s. 6d.; Umbrella Stands, 6s. 6d.
Table Mats, Is. the set of 6, to 10s. 6d.
Metal Dish Covers, £17s. 6d. the set of five
Lamps, with Globes complete, from 4s. 9d.
Hand Lamps, complete, from Is.
Table Napkin Rings, 3s. 6d. the set
China Tea Sets, from 16s. 6d.
Dessert Services, 18 pieces, for 13s. 6d.
Dinner Services, with Soup Tureen and Well Dish,
£3 17s. 6d.; usually sola at £3 3s. 6d.
Breakfast, Dinner, and Tea Services, in all the
newest patterns, equally cheap
Toilet Sets, Fancy Patterns, 9s. 6d. and 10s. 6d.
Toilet Sets, White and Gold, 14s. 6d. and 16s.
Toilet Sets, Band and Gold, 18s.
Toilet Sets, superior, 80s., in a variety of pretty
patterns
Table Toilet Sets, 7 pieces, 4s., ranging to 35s.
Set of J ugs, 3s. 3d., 4s. 6d., 5s.
A very nice lot of Toilet Glasses, cheap
Tete-a-Tete Sets, or 4 o’clock Teas, from 14s. 6d.
Sets of Electro-plated Dessert Knives and Forks,
with Pearl Handles, 46s.
Marble Clocks, £3 5s., £2 7s. 6d., £310s., £2 15s.
Clocks, good timekeepers, 7s. 6d.; Alarm Clocks, 10s.
School Clocks, 1 guinea
Superior Hall or Library Regulator Clocks, 4
guineas
Vases, from Is. 6d. pair to 9 guineas
Inlaid Work Boxes, from 3s. 6d.; Writing Desks,
IDs. 6d.
These are merely a few ITEMS taken from the
large number of special attractions now offered.
REVISED HOUSE-FURNISHING LISTS.
For the sum of XI5 prompt net cash,
You can Furnish a House as follows:
PARLOUR.
Dining Table, 4x3
Cheflonier safe
Colonial sofa
Four cane-seated chairs...
Clock ...
Table Cover
Pair vases
Lamp
Fender
Matting for room
Hearth slip
BEDROOM.
Half-tester bedstead, 4ft 61n
Pair palliasses
Mattress
Bolster
Two pillows
Chest of drawers
Washstand and toilet set
Toilet table
Toilet-glass
Chair
Matting slip
KITCHEN.
Pine table
Chair
Six plates
Six plates
Vegetable dish
Meat dishes, Is and Is 9d...
Six cups and saucers
Sugar basin
Milk-jug
Butter dish
Pair salt-cellars
Six tumblers
Six knives and forks
Two table spoons
Six tea spoons
Kettle
Boiler
Saucepans, 2s 3d and 3s ...
Frying pan
Tea pot
Washbasin
Galvanized tub
Bucket
Dipper
Baking dish
Candlestick
Nutmeg grater
Pepper castor
Kitchen spoon
Pair flat irons
Millet broom
Wash board
Scrub brush
Pair bellows
Dust shovel
s. d.
14 6
5 0
10 6
0
7
3
2 6
4 6
3 6
6 0
1 15 0
13 6
12 6
4 0
3 0
1 15 0
13 0
7 6
3 0
3 6
2 0
7 6
2 6
1 6
2 0
2 6
2 9
2 3
1 0
1 0
1 0
9
3 0
3 0
1 8
1 6
3 6
5 6
5 3
1 0
1 6
1 6
5 0
1 9
1 0
10
6
2
6
3
3 0
1 0
1 0
1 0
2 6
0 7
£15 (To
The Revised £35 List will appear in this column
next week.
Campbell Brothers,
Royal Furnishing Arcade,
426 6EORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT THE ROYAL HOTEL.
mdv’ it strikes me I have met her somewhere
before. " The late Prince Batthyany was, with the
exception of the Earl of Stradbroke, who was 90 in
February last, the oldest member of the English
Tockev Club. It is a little curious that he took so
slight an interest in his own country and its for-
tunes for the name which he bore had often played
a part in swaying the destinies of Hungary. In
modern times Count Louis Batthyany was the
most conspicuous bearer of the name; but he was
iprs remarkable for anything he himself did than
fnr the fact that he had the discernment to offer a
nlace in his first Cabinet in 1848 to Francis Deak
the Hungarian patriot Should the Tichborne
rlftimant be liberated on ticket-of-leave on the
nsual terms, his imprisonment will end in Novem-
ber next year. He has been assured that a dozen
hnmea will be open to him as soon as he comes out
nf orison The Czar and the Grand Duke Con-
stantine, uncle of His Majesty, were recently re-
ivmciled through the mediation of the Princess
Dolgorouki, the “kept woman” of His Majesty’s
deceased and sainted papa. . .The sister of Millais,
the groat painter, is the wife of Lester Wallack.
the N Y manager. She eloped with him when he
was a voung man, 300 or 400 years ago....It is
denied that Gladstone is failing. He sits night
lifter night, sometimes till 1 and 2 a.m., in the
House For a man of his age to do that night after
night must require an iron constitution. He seems
as ruddy, hale, and hearty as a man in his prime.
Death of Lord Rokeby announced. Commanded
Brigade of Guards for a while in the Crimea. A
hearty old boy... Yankees beginning to make pre-
paration for commemorating in 1892 the 400th
anniversary of the discovery of America by Colum-
bus The Spanish Duke of Veragna is the only
living descendant of the great Christopher. He
is a bull-breeder of great note.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Stipendiary Dillon says that he has no
nower where a wife is compelled to leave her
husband’s residence on reasonable apprehension of
danger to her person, to order maintenance to be
paid to her. Oh law I
Love is certainly a law unto itself. There
is no knowing how it will take you. A man in
Melbourne fell in love the other day with the
plaintiff if an affiliation case, without ever having
seen her. He was captured by the sensational
description given of her by the police reporter.
The courtship was conducted through her solici-
tor And by this time the happy pair are probably
married. Which proves the truth of Pope s
couplet:— . , , .
“ There is no goose so grey, but soon or late
She finds some honest gander for her mate. ’
It is about time woman was relegated to
to her proper sphere. At least, last speech-day, at
fashionable St. Peter’s, S.A., the Honorable John
Cox Bray, when bursting into oratory, turned his
back on the ladies, who always assemble there in
great force per special invitation, and began “Your
Excellency, my Lord Bishop, and Scholars—1 was
almost going to say fellow-scholars—unaccus-
tomed as I am to public speaking, I rise to,” etc.
etc Woman was not even alluded to; and thus
under the guidance of a South Australian Chief
the new era of man’s emancipation be* ins I
One of the most enterprising of editors is
Mr Charles T. Leddv, of the Illinois Liberal.
He has been cowhided fifteen times in six years,
three times being by women. He says he will
make his paper gee at any cost. Cost up to present
date seems to be very nearly equal to the elder
Bennett’s record in the early days of the Herald.
The great New York journal increased its circula-
tion by every kick received by Its editor, while a
regular whipping doubled the sales at once. The
blood of the martyr is the seed of the church, and
the whipping of the editor is the basis of journal-
ism. The editor who has the interest of his journal
at heart, shrinks from no sacrifice, and gaily takes
his punishment. Why, even we—but the women
who trip down to 24 Pitt-street, don’t come to beat
us, dear reader; so modesty forbids
Speaking of the barmaid biz., Mr. Martin,
Inspector of Factories, Melbourne, says :—“It is a
melancholy thing to watch the career of these
poor young women. They come to town from the
country, blooming and innocent, and tempted by
the meretricious glitter of the city bars, they take
a ‘ barmaid’s place.’ In six months they lose both
the bloom on their cheeks and the innocence of
their hearts. They descend from first-class hotels
to second, from second to third, until they are lost
sight of altogether.” Just so. But then, again,
some begin in the land of “lost sight of altogether,”
and then gradually work their way up to the third,
second, and first hotels ; then to the “swell” six-
penny bar, and finally wind up by marrying some
young soft-headed moneyed scapegrace, or the
“ dearest, silliest old squattah in the whole world.”
There’s a silver lining to every cloud.
Love is a fearful, as well as an exquisite,
thing. Two men in Iowa, Moss and Points, were
rivals tor one girl. She said they could light it out,
and she would reward the best man. They did. A
country spot was picked, sixty spectators went
out, including the girl, and the seconds with loaded
revolvers swore they would shoot the first person
who interfered. It was agreed there should be no
rules whatever, the struggle was beat-how you can,
and it lasted fifty-five minutes. Feet, fists, and
teeth were used, with all the ferocity of wild
beasts, the men clinging to one another like bull-
dogs, and rolling all over the ground. As Point’s
strength gave way, Moss, in the last efforts of his
madness, jumped on his foe, crushing through his
chest and breaking his skull. Then the spectators
overpowered the armed seconds, and dragged the
■combatants away. Points was dead: Moss Bad had
two fingers, his nose, and one ear bitten off, and Is
not expected to live. He will make a nice bride-
groom. Ten to one she won’t look at him now.
It’s always the way.
There is a romantic story told about our
old friend, Alice May. When in Melbourne, about
100 years ago, she captivated a wealthy man named
James Williams, and this estimable person has fol-
lowed her about ever since. First the actress went
to England, and obtained an engagement at the
Alhambra. She had naturally forgotten the episode
of Mr. Williams, when, after playing a month or
two, a bouquet, accompanied by a card that re-
called the Melbourne adventure, was left for her at
the stage door. It transpired that James, unable,
he said, to live without a sight of her, had sold his
business and started as soon as possible after she
left Melbourne for London. During the Alhambra
engagement, Mr. Williams was at the theatre
nightly. But the run of the piece came to an end
at last, and Miss May, without informing her
adorer, sailed for N.Y., with the idea of making a
protracted tour through the States. A week or
two ago Miss May was rehearsing “ Satanella ” at
the Standard Theatre, N.Y., when a card was
brought her, and she once more read the familiar
inscription, James Williams. Her devoted ad-
mirer, who seems to quite ignore the fact that his
enchantress is married, had once more crossed the
ocean to be near her; and, as soon as the Standard
Theatre box office was opened, it is said that a
second row stall was booked in the name of James
Williams for the run of the piece.
This is a woman item, and we trust no
modest man will read it. It’s about “ supports,”
by silver pen:—“The bustle of horsehair is the regu-
lation one, though there are many Innovations;
and some people make a flat-bag filled with down.
Down, you see, don’t give the wearer away at all.
Should some spiteful creature insert a long pin in
order to discover how much genuine humanity
fiills up the space between corset and dress, the
down gives beautifully and a slight scream assures
the explorer that the faultless contour is a true
bill. Newspapers are also useful, but must be
carefully chosen. There is a new substance, how-
ever, which is even finer than down or paper. I
will illustrate by a short story: I went to a friend’s
house the other day—she was stout, very—and she
was bemoaning the fact. I am thin. I also be-
moaned ray match-like appearance. “ Why not
pad,” said my friend. “ I abhor anything false,” I
replied, “since all padding is apparent.” “ Not if
you use bird seed,” said my friend. “ Bird seed,” I
ejaculated. “Yes, indeed. My husband came
home the other day and asked me what women
used bird seed for. ‘Because,’ said he, ‘ I walked
behind a finely formed woman in green velvet to-
day, and in her wake followed a thin stream of
of bird seed for four blocks; then It gave out; and
L beheld in amazement that her beautiful figure
id collapsed.” “You see,” said my friend, “it
gives a perfect form, but you must be careful not
to have a suspicion of a hole in the covering.” I
draw the line at bird seed, “You see, girls, it gives
you away.”
The World is severe on the new Order of
the Royal Red Cross. With Florence Nightingale
in the Crimea, nursing was heroism. Now, It is a
fashionable fad. Already there Is such a struggle,
by scheming, favouritism, and newspaper puffs,
among the showy, semi-arlstocratic women, who
seek the distinction, that the scandal will probably
soon cure Itself. And it was a scandal in the
Egyptian war. The enthusiasts went out in shoals,
with introductions from great people to briga-
diers, and colonels, and surgeons-general, and the
officers dare not offend those with whom their
chances of promotion lay. The women were
theoretical nurses, ignorant in practice, often
pretty and conceited, and of course, intractable.
Many turned the campaign into a huge picnic, and
at the first symptom of ailment or overwork in
themselves, were at once invalided home, reclining
in picturesque grace on the cane couches of the P.
and O. steamers. Hospital surgeons are but
human, and Sir Edward’s second cousin, or charm-
ing Miss De Montford, who brings a note from the
Duchess, is certain to have a better chance of
being recommended for the Royal Red Cross than
the common soldier’s wife, nurse she ever so well.
Among wounded men in hospitals, is no place for
lily-fingered, lisping, languid, fashionable women.
When sought after by such as these, it is obvious
the honour is sure to be gained by those who have
most influence: and there was never a more in-
jurious blow struck at honest merit—at least, not
since that scandalous scattering of the Egyptian
medals. And Ohl To read what Truth says of
the means by which the belauded Wolseley manu-
factured bogus fame for himself, through the
medium of the press correspondents I
Parson: “ I’m sorry to hear, Fullocks, you
have parted from your wife.” Fullocks: ‘‘It
warn’t my fault, sir. Fust she gi’ me three months
for breakin’ her jaw, then she gi’ me six for ’arf
killin’ on her, then she bound me over to keep the
peace—and I couldn’t stan’ it no longer.” ... When
a man poisoned his wife and married her mother,
the Judge ruled that the presumption of in-
sanity was too strong in such a case to render a
trial necessary Thus an American paper: At
Ottawa, Langtry was recalled so many times that,
in a gush of gratitude, she exclaimed: “I wish I
could kiss each one of you.” Judging from the
size of her mouth she might accommodate them
all at once Up at Gundagai there are little com-
plaints regarding the supineness of the local ladies,
m never visiting the hospital inmates. No flowers,
no pictures, no sympathetic words are supplkd.
Just the bare walls, and the rough cookery.. .Lon-
don will soon have a population equal to that of
ancient Rome, which is by some historians put at
4,000,000 and by others at 5,000,000. According to
the last census, particulars of which were pub-
lished May 1, the population in 1871 was 3,254,260; it
has now risen to 3,816,483, Including 1,797,486 males
and 2,018,997 females, thus giving a net increase of
562,223 persons. What will the surplus women do
for husbands? A relic hunter—A fellow en-
deavoring to capture a widow. ..A certain news-
paper, edited by a creature that calls Itself a man,
puts it thus“ There’s a skeleton in every cor-
set.” There are forty-nine female physicians in
Brooklyn, N.Y., of whom fifteen are homoeopaths
—They had just been made one, and were about
to leave the church when the “ one-maker” called
back the bride. “ Ma’am, you were forgetting the
marriage certificate; here ’tis.” She took the docu-
ment, and on getting into the street, she yelled
at the top of her voice: “ Come this way, Mickey.
I’ve got the resale ov you at last.” The new
Canadian Franchise Bill, includes unmarried
women and widows for the full franchise in the
same terms as men.... Says an American exchange:
Langtry made a terrible revelation as Galatea. She
made the worst statue that ever an artist con-
ceived, even in his worst nightmare. Such a
homely effect as her wig gave ner! Such awful
big feet as she exploited! Such protuberant knee-
pans ! Such illpadded legs! Such an awkwardness
of position and gait I Lordy! Lordy! Freddie,
who, &c. [a lot struck out here], must have been
a chump to have been infatuated 1 We are now
satisfied that he’s paying too dear for his whistle-
speaking in polite paraphrase and not calling a
spade a spade.
Mr. J. Knopp, State school teacher at
Cooma, has been removed to Mittagong. The
little game now being worked pretty successfully
in some country districts of N.S.W. is to annoy a
teacher who doesn’t happen to be of the “right
colour” until he applies for a transfer. If a man
is suspected of drinking to “ the pious and immor-
tal,” &c., the Greeks make a dead set on him; and
vice versa.
The Dimboola Banner has found it out.
Bless you I You never can hide anything from
“them” chaps. “An idea prevails,” says the B..
“that only wild dogs of a yellow colour are real
dingoes.” And so the claim of the “ black-and-
tan ’ dogs to be rated as dingoes is ingeniously
worked out. The chief reason appears to be that
they have an unpleasant habit of eating one an-
other when hungry. This certainly ought to be
enough to satisfy any unprejudiced person. If a
dog that eats his mate isn't a we should like
to know what the mischief he is.
It’s not a nice subject; but, as the N.S.W.
Government Gazette started it, we don’t see
why we should be above chipping in. There is a
Permanent Artillery force .n Sydney. It is en-
tirely colonial, and is, of course, paid ever so
much better than the Royal Artillery. When pay
is good, so is the “wittles.” It is just a little too
late in the day to dispute that. Now, high living
means a lot of things. When men get that, they
want mere. But as this would lead us into a dis-
sertation trenching on physiology on the one side
and morality on the other, we shall just drop it like
a hot tuber, and proceed to business. The Govern-
ment, then, have found it necessary to warn their
troops that sergeants will be charged a shilling,
and privates sixpence per day, for the support of
any promiscuous children they may send to the
State institutions. The question now arises whether
it is quite fair to enlist men and place before them
all their liabilities, and then add fresh ones when
they are attested, sworn in, and drilled. It is
rather a blue look-out for the privates who—
through no fault of their own—happen to stand in
loco parentis to a numerous progeny. We could
say a lot more on this subject, but won’t.
Up Kingower way (Vic.) a digger named
Simon Stephens, who inhabited an underground
one-story house between Dead Dog Gully and
Jackass Flat, was taking a smoke after dinner.
Simon was charged with tobacco smoke, corned
beef, and abstraction. He observed a dirty old
bullock’s horn lying half burled in the ground a
few feet away. He had seen it often before, but,
as seven years’ occupation as a bullock “ puncher ’
had filled him right up with information regard-
ing these aggravating animals and their ways, he
didn’t think he could get much more knowledge
from this particular excrescence. Simon was wrong
there. A thoughtful man can squeeze information
out of most anything—almost out of the Evening
Nooze. Half unconsciously he took up his pick,
as the sight of the horn was beginning to irritate
him a bit, and with one blow turned up a 200-ounce
nugget. An alien once found an old guinea but
only received 19s. for it. Next day, seeing another
old coin near the same place, he stepped know-
ingly aside—he was not to be had twice—and re-
marked: “ Not this time; I lost a shillin’by a fel-
low like you yesterday.” This was Simon’s experi-
ence, too, for there was a clear loss of £80 on the
nugget, as twenty ounces of quartz were found
sticking to it. Some men are bom unlucky. One
can’t be too careful in picking up nuggets.
BECAUSE IT’S YOU.
If I could have my dearest wish fulfilled,
And take my choice of all earth’s treasures, too,
Or choose from Heaven whatsoe’er I willed,
I’d ask for you.
No man I’d envy, neither low nor high,
Nor king in castle old or palace new,
I’d hold Golconda’s nobles less rich than I,
If I had you.
Toil and privation, poverty and care,
Undaunted, I’d defy, nor fortune woo.
Having my wife, no jewel else I’d wear.
If I had you.
Little I’d care how lovely she might be,
How graced with every charm; how fond, how
true.
Even though perfection, she’d be naught to me
Were she not you.
There is more charm tor my true loving heart,
In everything you think, or say, or do,
Than all the joys that heaven could e’er impart.
Because It’s you 1
“ What is the matter here ? ” “ Why, the fact is, it is the steamer on which Parkes
sailed, and they gave him a berth too far forward.”
THE HUSTLE OF A PETTICOAT.
They’ve sung about the patter of the rain upon
the roof,
Of the patter of the slipper on the youngster’s
tattered pants.
Of the patter on the prairie of the ranger’s mus-
tang’s hoof.
Of the patter of the Summer rain on rivers, earth
ana plants;
But there’s something yet to sing about, far sweeter
than them all,
For a heavy heart is lightened when a gentle
maid appears,
And care trips by on airy wings, into space, beyond
recall,
When the crispy, perfumed rustle of a petticoat
it hears.
There is something so entrancing in the music of
its sound,
There is something so delightful in the rustle,
that, I swear,
When I’m sitting in the twilight, and when no one
else is round,
I’d barter hopes of heaven, when the rustle’s
near ray chair.
To feel a sculptured, silky arm a-twlning round my
neck,
To feel a satin, downy cheek a-pressing close to
mine—
To see the harsh world melting to a tiny, cloudy
speck,
And to feel a thrilling feeling—hardly human,
half divine!
By the demigods of ancient Rome! you’ve never
lived at all 1—
You have never known what ’tis to breathe the
air of Paradise;
You have never sipped the wine of life—you have
only tasted gall—
If you’ve never, in the gloaming, encountered
loving, lustrous eyes!
If you’ve ne’er, when sad and lonely, sitting in a
quiet room,
Looking out upon the meadows, listening to the
cowbell’s clink,
When the night birds sang an anthem to the amber-
coloured moon,
And the pearly drops of dew came down to give
each flower a drink—
If you’ve never heard the rustle of a petticoat
close by—
If you’ve never felt the one inside the petticoat
breathe low
A loving, tender, perfumed, soulful, little, tremu-
lous sigh,
Why, you've let the golden hours of life come—
and let them go 1
I’ve heard the wind sing low at night round gables
and through trees,
Through the rigging of a noble ship, like lost
souls moved to tears;
But the rustling that I sing about is sweeter than
all these—
Ah I the rustle of a petticoat is music in my ears I


W. Howard Smith and Sons,
STRUTH’S WHARF and NEW WHARF
(Foot of King Street).
Offices: 43 KING STREET.
Steamers for MELBOURNEMONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Brisbane to Port Mackay and Townsville
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
Buninyong .. 3000 Geelong
Barrabool .. .. 1000 Keilawarra ..
♦Bur vrah .. .. 1000 Konoowarra
Cheviot .. . 1500 Leura
Derwent .. •• 500 Moreton
Edina .. •• 400 Rodondo
♦Gabo 3000 You Yangs ..
♦ To arrive.
W. HOWARD SMITH and SONS,
42 King Street, Sydney.
500
900
1500
1600
600
1300
700
ArmstroiiK’s Remedy for Internal or
Bleeding Piles
Rapidly superseding all other modes of treatment.
For the CURE of HEMMBRHOIDS, largely pre-
scribed by tbs Faculty. It improves the general
HEALTH, equalises the CIRCULATION, relieves
CONGESTION, stops BLEEDING, Pain, and Itch-
ing, in from 24 to 38 hours. Sold in bottles only, at
4s. 6d. and 10s.
ARMSTRONG’S PARAGON PILE OINTMENT,
FOR OUTWARD PILES. Price, 2s.
Armstrong’s (Camomile) Liver and Bilious
Pills,
For the Cure of Indigestion, Dyspepsia,? alns In
the Side, Headache, Giddiness, Heartburn, Flatu-
lency, and Habitual Constipation. They give a
Healthy Tone and Vigour to the necessary Organa
of Digestion—the Stomach and Liver—and being
mild in their operation, promote Digestion, restore
the Appetite, and strengthen the entire System.
Price, Is., 2s., and 4s. 6d.
Armstrong’s Red Jamaica Sarsaparilla,
in Combination with Dandelion and Potash.
“ Recommended by the Highest Medical authority
as a Vitalising Blood Restorative and Tonic.”
5s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 21s.
Goods forwarded to all parts of the colonies
and Price Lists sent post free.
100 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Two Doors below Compagnonl’s.
Bad Legs, Constitutional
Diseases, &c.
To Mr. Cooper, 340 Crown-street.
For live years I suffered intensely with bad legs;
I have been treated by our bpst doctors, and I have
tried nearly every remedy procurable, but 1 gene-
rally grew worse instead of better. My age is 52,
and I fully expected to suffer for the rest of my
life, until 1 hoard of some of your cures, and
before T had been a week under your treatment I
was better. My legs are quite healed, and I never
felt better in my life than I do now.- Mrs. K.
Hakdkn, 'rate-street, North Shore.
To M r. Cooper.
I wish to make known the benefit of your treat-
ment in my ease. 1 had bad legs for two years,
and could get no relief anywhere : yon cured me
in less than a month.—R. T. Eastway, Eastway
Brothers, George-street.
To Mr. Cooper.
I beg to add my testimony to the efficiency of
your treatment. I had a bad leg.for 16 months ; 1
was under the care of three doctors, but when 1
came to you I was worse than before. My leg is
now quite healed, and I am well. I give you this,
so that others suffering may know where to go to
get cured.—James M. Floyd, Fairford-street,
Petersham.
Other Testimonials too numerous to print.
Hundreds of people in New South Wales can
testify to the cures effected by H. W. Cooper’s in-
vention, and he has only been in the colony nine
months.
H. W. COOPER, 340 Crown-street,
Opposite Reservoir.
Advice gratis.
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
THE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco of the Age I
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The only Tobacco combining Excellence of Qualit y
with Economy in Price.
Each PLUG is STAMPED with the word
“ EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain Jt.
Take no other.
EU
KA
MANUFACTURED BY
Sayffell’s Tohcco Ci.,LiiD.
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
And can be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse,
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO,
Registered according to Act of Parliament, to pro-
tect the public against spurious and worthless
imitations.
Emil Paterson,
ARCHITECT AND CIVIL ENGINEER,
NO. 4 PITT STREET.
THE BUGGIES OF THE PERIOD.
Unequalled for Durability and Elegance.
WAGGONETTES & EXPRESS WAGGON S
FIRST-CLASS WORK ONLY IMPORTED.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 & 24 C/arence-st,
SYDNEY.
TaT
<mn=»
mm
s
s
9b.
m
8
Q
o
•St
p
o
o
c?
CP
37
m
ELy;
BROOK’S
k r-v ...
BROOK’S PATENT
GLACEt THREAD
JROOK’S SIX-CORD
SOFT COTTON
VERY CAREFULLY MADE
FOR
HAND & MACHINE SEWING, I
White. Black & all Colours j!# NEW SHOULDER REEL.
NEW SHOULDER REEL
1 1 BBS, BRIGHT & CO., 98 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO., LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO.. VALPARAISO. ,
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON—Head Office : HONGKONG.
Principal Agencies :
.1. C. Gostllng and Company (Limited)—Portland Cement.
The Tunnel Portland Cement Company (Limited)—Portland Cement .
Marshall, Sons and Company (Limited), Gainsborough— Portable Horizontal, and \ erticnl Engines,
Threshing Machines, Saw Benches, &c., &c.
Crosslev Brothers (Limited), Manchester—The celebrated “ Otto ’ Silent Gas Engines.
Bow, M'Lachlan and Company, Paisley-—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &(•-, ,Vc.
Thos. Glover and Company, London—Patent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian and Sous—Yellow Sheat hing Metal.
Penyrnraedd Slate Company (Limited)—Bangor Slates.
The Quicksilver Mining Company, San Francisco—Quicksilver.
Fels and Company, of Patras and Corfu—Currants.
Thos. Bell ana Co.—English Hams, Bacon, &c„ &c. .
Red Cross Preserving Company, Victoria—Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, &c.
l)e Wendel and Company, Hayange, France—Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plates, Iron and
Steel Fencing Wire, &c.
Thos. Perry and Son, Bilston- Fire-resisting Safes.
DrybrougU and Co., Edinburgh—Ale.
Brunton and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse.
Thos. N. Hunt —Port Wine.
Dubos Freres, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablis, Sauternes
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES.
New South Wales.— Scott ami Mullaly, T. Allsop, F, J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros.,
Jindera Mill Co.
Victoria.— James Fry and Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
South Australia. —W. C. Harrison and Co., Trnslove and Addison, H. Hmcks.
INDENTS executed, on the most favourable terms, from all parts of the world. Consignments
of produce received for shipment to London, under liberal advances.
THE COVENTRY MACHINISTS COMPANY
MAKERS BY SPECIAL WARRANT TO H.R.H. THE PRINCE OF WALES.
TRADE MARK REGISTERED.
Intending Purchasers of
Bicycles & Tricycles
THE SPECIAL CLUB.
Should Write to Us or Call on Us.
&
As we have always on hand a full
Stock of THE CLUB BICYCLES and
TRICYCLES, we never tail to give
purchasers the best satisfaction.
We have permission from the leading
BICYCLE AND TRICYCLE RIDERS
OF THE COLONY to refer inquirers
as to the merits of our machines to
them, and we shall take pleasure in
doing this whenever requested, as their
good recommendation has already sold
for ns a number of machines. Expe-
rienced Machinists inspect and adjust
every machine.
THE AUSTRALIAN CLUB.
SPECIAL AGENCY:
THE IMPERIAL CLUB.
THE CHEYLESMORB CLUB.
Jut! Mi St Comfy.,
389 George Street, opposite
Royal Hotel.
o
R
H 0 IJ
E
Lessee, W. .1. Wilson. Sub-Lessee, A. T. Ddnnino.
Stage Manager, T. B. Appleby.
Treasurer, J. F. Goldsworthy,
The most successful Opera Bonffe of the day.
MANTEAUX NO IRS
(Black Cloaks).
K.B.—This famous work was performed for
Seven Months at the Avonue, London, and will be
produced on a scale of
UNPARALLELED SPLENDOUR.
THIS and EVERY EVENING.
Admission —Dress Circle, 5s.; Stalls, 3s.; Pit, 2s.
Box plan at Huenerbien’s Music Warehouse, 411
George-street, where seats may be secured for any
date in advance. Day tickets obtained at
Stone’s, tobacconist, next Theatre.
Secretary to A. T. Dunning, A. N. Hallifax.
niHEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Management of
I Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & Mdsgrovk.
6th WEEK AND LAST NIGHTS of
MISS JENNIE LEE,
as
“JO," .....
played by her over 2000 times in the principal cities
of the world, supported by
Mr. J. P. BURNETT
and a carefully selected Company.
Business Manager for Miss Lee, LIDDY.
T
WA HOURS AT
PROTESTANT HALL,
H A M E.
FOR A SHORT SEASON ONLY,
commencing
MONDAY, 23rd JULY.
Farewell Tour of the Australian Colonies.
MR. KENNEDY
MR. KENNEDY
MR. KENNEDY
will give his Entertainments
on the
SONGS OF SCOTLAND,
assisted by the following members of his family:—
Miss Helen Kennedy Soprano
Miss Marjory Kennedy Soprano
Miss Maggie Kennedy Contralto
Mr. Robert. Kennedy Tenor.
Pianoforte, the Misses Kennedy.
Commence at 8. Admission—-3a., 2s., Is.
C T O R I A HALL
Boiirke Street, Melbourne.
Lessee
Mr. F. E. Hisoocks.
The most Elegant, Fashionable, and Popular
Place of Amusement In Australia, well adapted
for any first-class entertainments. The Lessee open
to Rent or otherwise. Apply
WM. MARSHALL,
Lorgnette Office, Melbourne.
THOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR OF THE
ZULU WAR.
Theatre Royal, Rockhampton, July 9th to 31st.
Hundabcrg, Maryborough, and Gymplc.
Brisbane to follow, 9th September, with
NEW DIORAMA
OF
EGYPTIAN WAR!
W. H. THOMPSON, Proprietor.
SYL. RYAN, Agent.
BEAT SIX DAYS’ WALKING MATCH, for
the Championship of New South Wales, and
JL*150
To Commence Cth AUGUST,
in the
EXHIBITION BUILDING, Prince Alfred Park,
The following are the competitorsJ. W.
Taylor. G. Lever, A. T. J. Beck, H, Woods, O. Le
Petit, C. Williams, T. Singleton, J. Ewins, J. Camp-
bell M'Dermott. ,,
T. J. ROBERTSON, Manager.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 16th July, 1883.
TENDER FOR REPAIRS.
fTlENDERS are invited for Repairs to the Public
I School, at Ash held ; Specifications may he
scon, and Forms of Tender obtained at the office of
tlie Department of Public Instruction,Sydney,and
at the Ashflcld Public School, on application to the
Teacher. ,, _ , „ ,,
Tenders, endorsed “ i ender for Repairs, Ashflcld
Public School,” must be lodged with the Under-
secretary, Department of Public Instruction, at or
before lb o’clock, a.m., on Monday, the 30th July,
1883
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender. Q> „ RFID
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 16th July, 1883.
TENDERS FOR TAR PAVING.
TENDERS are invited for Tar Paving the Public
School Ground, at Darlington ; Plans and
Specifications may be seen, and Forms of Tender
obtained at the office of the Department of Public
Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Tar Paving, Dar-
lington Public School,” must be lodged with the
Under-Secretarv, Department of Public Instruc-
tion, at or before 10 o'clock a.m., on Monday the
30th July, 1883. , , t j A . ..
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender. G . H. REID.
aVala'J
a
%
IKTW0WUTY
HMfAGNL
HITUAjia
j /o/sr
A", I
V
“I’m out of form. Can’t keep up to work.”
“Oh, if that’s all, old man, I’ll have you as brisk as a
ricket in a jiffy. Here, Waiter! large bottle of
.yiila’s White Label. This is a wine one can’t get
very whore; and if it doesn't set you up, I rank, I J
Ive you a new hat.”
HI PHILLIPS & SO.,
AGENTS.
xxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxx
xxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxx
XX XX
XX XXORDERN BROTHERS, in PITT- XX
XX xl STREET. XX
XX XX
XX STYLE, QUALITY, and ECONOMY XX
XX Guaranteed XX
XX TO ALL CUSTOMERS XX
XX in our XX
XX NEW TAILORING DEPARTMENT. XX
XX XX
XX SPECIALITY—Trouserss 13s 6d, to XX
XX measure. XX
xx XX
XX HORDERN BROTHERS, in Pitt-street. XX
XX TT IS A FACT THAT HORDERN’S XX
XX X NEW TAILORING BRANCH, XX
XX in Pitt-street, XX
XX CAN MAKE A SUIT TO MEASURE XX
XX (and also to fit) XX
XX For 508-FIFTY SHILLINGS ONLY. XX
XX Try us. XX
XX XX
XX HORDERN BROTHERS, 211, Pitt-street. XX
XX mHTS DAY, THURSDAY, JULY 19. XX
I XX
XX ' NO SELLTNGS-OFP PRACTISED XX
XX at XX
XX HORDERN’S IN PITT-STREET, XX
XX
XX Rut Genuine FASH ION ABLE NEW XX
XX GOODS, sold at XX
XX REASONABLE PRICES, XX
XX ALL THE YEAR BOUND. XX
XX XX
XX We can do ’a good Business, and at the XX
XX same time serve you XX
XX FAITHFULLY, HONESTLY, & WELL, XX
XX without XX
XX SELLING-OFF DODGES, XX
XX IMAGINARY SACRIFICES, XX
XX and XX
XX DECEPTIVE TICKETS in WINDOWS. XX
XX XX
XX HORDERN BROTHERS, XX
XX 211, Pitt-street. XX
XX XX
XXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX xxxx
XXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX xxxx


SUNDRY SHOWS.
theatre Royau, “Jo” ....... Vide p. 10.
OPERA House, “Manteaux Noh-s ib.
Most sad in its suddenness was the death
last week of Mrs. Garner (Miss Blanche Stammers).
fTHe storv is. we suppose, well known by this time
f how she fainted at the theatre while playing her
°nrt and was carried home never to see the sun
Strain Mrs. Garner was a bright and clever actress,
whose place upon the colonial stage will not soon
be supplied.
IN MEMORY,
a .. little: where she lies so, let her rest:
° What cares she now for fame, and what for art ?
AVhat for applause ? She has played out her part.
a , r hands are folded calmly on her breast—
H God knows the best!
She has gone down, as all must go, to where
The players of the past are lying low—
Players who played their parts out long ago—
With the life-hue still bright on lips and hair
And forehead fair.
rheek-colour, turn of hand, and flash of eye,
Who will remember them when wo are dead ?
Who that is dead have we remembered ?
The end is one although we smile or sigh—
We live; we die.
Bitter to some is Death, to some is sweet—
Sweetest to youth and bitterest to age;
But simple is the costume tor the stage—
The darkened stage of death, and very meet—
A winding-sheet.
«o we may fill our days with grief or mirth,
L Each as he pleases; but what boots it all,
When on the coffin-lid the cold clods fall,
Though we were the most eloquent on earth
Or dumb from birth '(
So, let her rest who perished in her prime,
Surely through darkness she shall find the light
And, though obscured to us in outer night,
>V ill play her part. \ et in a play sublime
In God’s good time.
A line of cabs in the street. A glittering
crowd at the door. A rustling: of scented silks,
“*« the rustling of lilac leaves, on the stairway.
Mlks of at colours—rose colour, mauve, peach-
hlossom, lilac and laburnum. A glimpse of the
pretty flushed faces, under white hoods. A word
m the pink ear of the door-keeper, and we
are m a box.
• • •
And there, by the good luck that always
waits on good looks, we met Mr. Sheridan and
Miss Davenport, who were courteous enough to
a *k us to make ourselves at home-an invitation
which w as accentuated by a smile from Miss
uavenport, for which we would with rapture have
made ourselves at home in Hades. And we may
as well say here, as anywhere else, that Mr. Sherx-
aan [informed us he is going to give a series of
readings in Adelaide next week, after which he
will probably open for a season in Melbourne. His
fW' in the colonies is prolonged by some legal
uilneulty, the details ol which are unmusical, and
therefore we shall say no more about them now.
we shall content ourselves with remarking that
Mr. Sheridan is as charming olf the stage as he is
on it. We can say nothing stronger until
me English language Is expanded.
• • •
The curtain had not yet risen. We looked
around the theatre. The auditorium was like a
Picture. The audience were still, because they
ivere packed so close that they couldn’t move,
we observed one man in the stalls, across whose
u*ce sudden spasms were passing. We thought
with pity, for a moment, that perhaps the poor
fellow had promised to take his wife to the opera,
1 and had just remembered that he had forgotten to
keep his promise. But we were deceived. We
always are when we allow ourselves to become
sentimental. He was writhing 1 because he was so
wedged in that ho couldn’t raise his hand to scratch
I his nose. The circle was a coruscation of bright
dresses and brighter eyes. It was Saturday night,
and the dominant type of beauty was consequently
. bi-unette. And such brunettes; eyed like gazelles
j and lipped like Cleopatras. We felt ourselves
1 a lost tribe as we looked at them.
• • •
While we waited for the curtain to rise,
we glanced over a pamphlet, entiled “ Something
about the Opex - a Comique," which was handed to
xis as we came In. The author is Mr. A. N. Halli-
fax, secretary to Mr. Dunning. And his work is
illustrated. The illustrations are worthy of the
illustrator, and the illustrator of the illustrations.
The letterpress, though not robust, has a consider-
able amount of finish—at the end. Dinhle! we
have a sort of suspicion that we said this once
before. However, author and artist are so much
on a par that if wo had to discriminate between
them we should do it on the principle of Mr. Bar-
low, the tutor in Bui-nand’s book, who, having
only two pupils, and having to give prizes to each,
very ingeniously settled tho difficulty by giving
tho first prize to one, and the second prize to the
other.
• • m
The curtain rose. It rose on a Spanish inn,
and a Spanish inn-keeper with a face like a Spanish
onion. There were the usual peasant girls in tne
; usual short petticoats and pink stockings. But
i the petticoats were a trifle shorter, and the stock-
ings pex-haps a shade pinker, than usual. Some of
the ankles, we took couiage to notice, were of
Andalusian neatness; others wexe formed after the
j Mulligan model. There wexe more others than
I some. The limbs—(Is this what you call dramatic
criticism ?— Ed. B.) The music of “ Manteaux
Noirs” is pretty for the most part, and here and
there unique. The libretto is the brightest we
have ever heard. And the dresses are so dazzling
as to be almost painful. But, better than ail, Mr.
Dunning has a new smile, which he seems to have
kept by him es. ecially for this opera. It is a grin,
if we may be allowed to say so without being sus-
pected of irreverence, of the most gorgeous kind.
Mr. Dunning has had his mouth curled, and the
corners turned up, so that he can get the complete
smile into the limits of his countenance. We be-
lieve bo Intends to have this smile mounted and
presented to the lessee of the Opera House when
the season is over. Tho lessee will probably use it
instead of a gas-jet, if he doesn’t utilise it as a
trap-door.
• • •
But we feel this is not criticism. And we
want to be critical. But really there is not much
scope for criticism. The opera is sparkling, and
the performers seem to have caught some of its
spirit. And all goes gaily. Miss Ivanova has made
a bigger hit is this, than, perhaps, in any other
opera in which we have yet seen her. And Miss
Chard makes a queenlier-looking queen than we
have ever seen out of a picture, and we have seen
a good many queens m our time. As tor Mr.
Appleby, he is as funny as we ever wish to see any
one be. It he were funnier he would be dangerous.
Mr. Loredan is, as usual, light and lively, and Mr.
Deane Brand, as the King of Spain, is a “masher”
of the most majestic type. They rest we shall
deal with next week. They can wait. But, in
concluding, we may say that “Manteaux
Noirs” Is likely to have a bigger run than any
opera that Mr. Dunning has yet pxoduced. And it
deserves it. Which is hazarding a bolder state-
ment still.
* * ♦ *
In the “Royal Middy, - ’ which at the
T. K. Adelaide is not prudish enough for the
local Register, there occurs a nigger. This nigger
is personated by one Morrison. The aaict Morrison
is nu fait at gallery blockamoor touches, and
among other things started the idea of tumbling
backward through the O.P. proscenium door. It
was thought an accident at first, but one night
after the thing had become monotonous the stage-
manager offered drinks all round to the carpenters,
if they would contrive to have that door firmly
screwed up when Mungo’s hack act was due. They
agreed, and to see Mungo unexpectedly rebound
from that door into the footlights, and to hear his
cursory remarks as he picked himself up, formed
amusement well worth the price of a dress-circle
ticket. Business there has been fairly good, and
among the men Farley is the favourite. Emelie’s
comedy is still unaffected and telling; and If she
can’t sing like lima de Murska, she Is worth twenty
Ilmas for stage and wifely purposes, and has shown
herself wise in bringing Miss Plaisted along.
Browne has no limp or stick now, and is growing
fat in spite of his connection with an opera boutfe
crowd. and Girofla” come next, with
“ Perichole ” to follow.
* ♦ * *
At the Theatre Royal, still “Jo.” We have
nothing more to say about “Jo” just now. At
least, what we have to say couldn’t be printed, so
it amounts to tho same thing. But we really would
like to see something now. We know we areflckle,
but we can’t help it. We have a irivolous nature
that yearns for occasional novelties.
* * * *
Whenever we feel that the world is
cold, whenever we feel that life is barren,
we take a drink. And if this does not
cheer us, there is only one thing else in
the world that can. And that is a letter from
Arthur Vivian—no matter how short, no matter
whether the Shakespearian quotations are cori’ect,
no matter whether the French phrases are properly
underlined, no matter whether the small trifle of
English in it is properly spelt — the letter, for its
i own sake, is all we want. We have a number of
: Arthur’s letters banging up in frames in our study
j —which, we may as well confess, is the still-room,
as also the wash-house and kitchen. To the point,
however. We have a letter from Mr. Vivian be-
fore us now. It brims with humour and over-
flows with jest; but we don’t publish any of the
jokes, because they are the joint property of
Arthur and some score of circus proprietors and
minstrel companies travelling around the various
parts of the world just now. The information in
it, however, is quite original. We might almost go
the length of saying that it is startlingly so, but
wo won’t, because Arthur might think tho phrase
ambiguous. Anyhow, it seems he is going to take
a company, containing some very good people up
to Parramatta on Saturday night (31st inst.), to play
“Neck for Neck,” and “The Marble Heart.’
He will play the part that Mr. Sheridan used to
take. We are always glad to hear good news of
Arthur, but we really don’t think it is in accord-
ance with his usual courteous style to jump Mr.
Sheridan's role before that gentleman leaves the
colonies. As it is, Mr. Sheridan will have no
chance of succ- ss in the character again. Who,
that has seen Arthur, will ever go to seo him ?
None. And, by the way, this reminds us Miat a
Sydney undertaker is going to take up two hearses
and half-a-dozen coffins to Parramatta on spec, on
Saturday night. He is not sure whether the act-
ing will kill the audience, or the audience kill the
actoi’s. Probably both things will occur. Anyhow
it happens will suit him, And anyhow it happens
willsnitus. Except that we wish Arthur a better
fate, if only for his audacity,
* * * *
This concerns theatrical condotticrl: in
other words, histrionic hash-hunters. You know
the sort of creatures we mean. At least, if you
don’t, you can easily make their acquaintance. In
the street they look like stage-struck barbers; on
the stage they look like burglars in Sunday suits.
They advertise entertainments, and bring people
front their homes and take their money. The
entertainments are about as cheerful as the gam-
bols of ghouls. But, as Dick Swiveller philosophi-
cally remarked, “when the goods are delivered what
can the waiter do ?" A company of broken-down
stage banditti leagxie their Incapacities, federate
their props, and start on a country tour. They can
always find somebody to give them a start—some-
body who is credulous, or who is sick of seeing
them at street corners at nil hours of the day.
They usually walk back—but what of that ? They
have fed fat their ancient grudge in the meantime.
Such a crowd as this gave an entertainment in—^we
shall not say where, for their sakes—but it was in
a town. The show was under distinguished patron-
age. They should have been enough in itself to
have kept respectable people from attending It.
Distinguished patronage can be obtained for a dog-
fight. But people who get up dog-lights have too
much regard for themselves to ask for it. Any-
how, this show was such an exhibition of imbecility
that the audience got up and left the hall before it
was half over. There is not much point in this
item, perhaps; but there was less in the subject.
We simply introduce it as a peg to hang a remon-
strance upon. We are sick of seeing performing
idiot asylums imposing upon the public. Wo
address these remarks to the profession. And we
write them on foolscap. Therefore, those whom
the cap fits let them wear it.
• • • ♦
Herr Bandrnann opens at the Gaiety on
Saturday night next. An! We Intended to die the
day after to-morrow, hut we have consented to
postpone our decease till Sunday, in order to seo
this great actor. We may mention that our funeral
will be strictly private, as we Intend to drown our-
self in a cask of rum. If there is any chance of
contributions towards raising a monument to us,
we would like to take them now.
* * * *
This is good. Madame Jananschek—who
was out here some years ago—began a professional
| tour in America not long ago. She started at the
town of Rochester. Her manager wanted to give
the inhabitants the impression that she started
there solely as a compliment to the culture of the
El ace. So he brought some reporters to interview
er. When they asked her why she started in
Rochester, she gave the manager away. “Yell.”
she replied, *• ve must pegin somevere.”
* * * *
The Stray Leaves Company was at Naran-
dera at latest dates. '1 his is the first time we have
heard of these people for we can hardly remember
how long. We suppose they have been playing in
coal-mines in the meantime. We last saw them In
a country town. Their advance agent made the
mistake of coming into the place with a stovepipe
hat on his head, and his appearance so paralysed
the inhabitants that hardly any of them were able
to attend the performance. So that the tlcket-
taaer got disheartened, and left his post to go over
the road for a drink. When he came back, tho
hall was a scene of confusion. There was a horse
in the front seats. This animal had wandered in,
thinking, probably, that the hall was a new sort or
stable. ’Anyhow, as he hadn’t any money about
him, he was put out. When the company got to
the next town they advertised the fact that at
their last performance they had to turn some of
the audience from the door.
* * * *
The Kennedy Family—Scotch vocalists—
open in the Protestant Hall on Monday night next.
Everybody in Australia heard them when they were
last here, and loved them. That generation is dead
now. We shall wait till we hear them before we haz-
ard an opinion as to their merits. But, judging by
the notices they have received from the Victorian
papers, we should think that If they want to make
room for all the people who will come to hear
them, they will have to hold their concerts in the
open air.
The attack upon the Rev. Mr. Osborne by sundry Secret-Society members of his congregation having failed, he is to be put on his defence by the Ministers of the
Wesleyan Conference.


PIOUS BILL
THE S.M. HERALD'S BERLIN CORRESPONDENT ILLUSTRATED.


BRIEF MENTION.
A Message of Peace —The War Cry.
The cannon that always fires blank cart-
ridge—Buchanan.
We are sorry to see that a very prominent
rivil servant who has lately risen to first in his
office, is already slowly dyeing.
Our Mrs. Ramsbotham wants to know
whether “ Dust.” the new novel, is by Ouida, who
s he thinks has already written Dirt.
A suburban alderraa: 4 . got up the other
Aav and wanted to take “ the sense of the Coun-
cil ’’’ He took it. But he lost it shortly after.
The cork came out on the way home.
Rumour says the next C.M.G. appointed
will be George Lord Carter. If this be the case,
the unfortunate man will not meet with a single
sympathiser.
• ■Among those who “saw off” Sir Henry
was a Civil servant who possibly wants a handle to
his name. C.M.G. means “Cursing, Meddling
Gardener.”
In Melbourne now, when a passenger
emerges from the debris of a wrecked train he
makes straight, not for his doctor, but for his
lawyer.
Grand Orangeman Hicks’ address was
written with a turkey-cock’s quill: it actually
gobbles in the pugnacity of its style. The vety
papers in which it appears verbatim go fr-f r-fr!
’Twas in the bush. He was a late arrival.
He remarked to an old Colonial: “ I say: isn’t that
a gigantic tree ?” “ No,” was the answer, “that’s
a gum tree.”
Mr. John Davies, C.M.G., for a bad speller
comes very near the mark when he spells his late
opponent’s name Harass, but he will spell Carter—
F-a-r-t-h-i-n-g.
It cost two millions to crown the Czar, It
will cost about five and sixpence to discrown him.
That is, of course, unless dynamite goes up. It is
not certain that dynamite will go up. But It is
certain that the Czar will go up.
In the Coffee Palace. Blue Ribbon man,
smiling benignantly: “ Ah, this would be a poor
world without coffee.” Seedy-looking man, stirring
savagely: “Yes; it’s a hades of a world even with
it.”
Another new literary venture—the Bowral
Free Press. Inter alia, the editor remarks at the
start, “ We shall turn our coat under no conditions
whatever.” Bravo 1 Extend the same determina-
tion to your other garments, and come and see us.
The meanest man on record is in the
Clarence district. He is a squatter, and recently
split a blanket in half because the plcaninny was
half-caste. The other half was made into saddle-
cloths.
A Salvation Army corps was holding open-
air service. It began to hail, and the people to
disperse. Fearful of missing an opportunity, the
captain bellowed “ Let us sing 4 All hail!’ ” And
all hail it was for quarter of an hour.
Some philosopher or other —probably other
—says that we are fast returning to barbarism.
Joy! This will be a blessed change. Our legis-
lators will then, we suppose, wear feathers; and,
in consequence, be able to hatch something. Now
they can only cackle.
Our Mrs. Ramsbotham, with that fore-
thought which distinguishes her. in order that
her nieces (from Victoria) might be able to read all
about the famous bay they were going to visit by
train, ordered from Cole’s 44 Bentley’s Prac-
tical Guide to Botany.”
A country paper says of the Shroud—by
the way, it is so long since we saw it that we have
nearly forgotten the poor old thing—that it is
44 very well printed, and is anything but dogmatic
in Its opinions.” This soft and unassertive quality
is what specially recommends it to buttermen.
On Friday last an idiot, signing himself
44 Fire Away,” wrote to the Echo some drivelling
balderdash, in which the superiority of so-called
44 popular” music was claimed as against what is
termed 44 high-class ” music. That day Mr. C. S.
Packer, the representative musician of New South
Wales died. Is 44 Fire Away ” content ?
It takes the Rum to frame a sensational
par. Nothing could be more touching than the
way in which it fixed up the tale about the Upper
Murchison blacks having killed a boy for 44 cana-
balistic purposes.” Why, 44 canabalistic purposes ”
alone is an immortality-conferring expression.
One of the Domain teetotal orators is a
fishmonger. Last Sunday an unbeliever got level
with him. 44 You are a fishmonger, Mr. Blank?”
44 1 am,” replied the eloquent one. 44 You sell salt
fish?” 44 Occasionally.” 44 Well, how can you, if
you sell salt fish, expect people to eschew long
beers ?”
The cradle song of Ah Song (Liabilities:
£9999 19s9d. Assets: nil.)—
44 Here me go up, up, upee,
An’ here me go down, down, downee;
An’ here me go ’long to the 'Solvency Court,
And den me get round, round, roundee.”
An old Scotchman came into a Murrum-
bidgee town a week or two ago. He had
a big cheque. And he put up at a hotel.
And he began to drink. And he finished drinking.
But not until he was dead. The hotel proprietor
drives to church in a new spring buggy now. The
Lord will provide I
In a recent Nooze, Alfred the Great de-
clares one half of the bad eyesight of the present
day is caused by 44 reading from bad print and bad
paper.” We trust the spirited philanthropist of
Pltt-street is a generous subscriber towards the
Ophthalmic Hospital, for, on his own showing, no
one else has a greater right to be.
Thank Heaven, it is planted for another
twelve months—the Boyne. The most singular
circumstance about this singular anniversary is
the number of clergymen who are always to the
44 fore ” when deep damnation is drunk to 44 Popery,
wooden shoes, and brass coin.” Is this how they
understand the Galilean’s teachings ?
Here is a horrible piece of scandal, which
will inevitably result in the overthrow of the
Stuart Ministry. The other day, Alice Griffith, 18,
was brought up at the Water Police Court, and
asked by Stipendiary Dillon bow sho got her living.
With downcast eyes the wretched girl replied, “I
am kept.” She is now kept by the Government —
kept in gaol.
Officers in the Queensland native police
by the new regulation are, upon marrying, to
cease to hold office in the force. We presume
they’ll follow the Pauline doctrine as usual. This
MTlwraithian ord nance is the funniest thing we
have heard of sinee the Royal ukase on the lamb-
and-mint-sauce question.
Morgan O’Neil went to sleep in Kent-
street. He was outside the houses—right in the
thorough.are. He was also outside a fair amount
of liquor. Further, his watch and chain were out-
side him. James Veen observed this. “ My lad.”
said the Judge to the man who stole the watch in
the days when petty larceny meant a slip-knot and
a grave in the gaol-yard, 44 you’ve grasped at time
and caught eternity.” Veen also grasped at time,
and caught it—six months.
According to the infallible theory of the
“Never-touch-its,” sobriety is the handmaid of all
the other virtues. Now, it is a well-known fact
that, so far as the use of Intoxicants is concerned,
the Turks are the most temperate people in the
world; but when it comes to a question of 44 all
the other virtues,” the 44 Mohawks ” of Sodom and
Gomorrah were Baptist ministers compared with
the unprincipled, lecherous jackals amongst whom
the present Khedive is a most fitting leader.
Over in Melbourne there are fruit shops,
where the languid young lady, who has been tra-
pesing up and down the block for hours, with a
bundle of books— 44 Little Gerty’s First Prayer ” on
top, and two volumes by Ouida beneath it—under
the pretence that she is just going to, or has just
come out of Mullen’s library, can sit down and wet
her nasturtium lips with a glass of brandy and
water, just as jauntily as any of her brothers in
the bar over the way. This is right. We want
female freedom of this kind established all over
Australia. We want our girls to smoke, and swear,
and stay out late, and, in fact, everything they want
themselves. And when they get all these claims
conceded to them, we shall go somewhere else to
look for wives.
A squatter, anxious to take time by the
forelock, hearing that the rabbits were corning his
way, offered as much as 5s. a head for them. Next
day he saw one of the despised aboriginals with
four doe rabbits tethered to little pegs outside the
mia-mia. They all gave promise of having shortly
to assume the responsibilities of maternity. The
nigger was waiting for the event before he pole-
axed the lot. And we presume to teach these
people! Why, at this rate. King Billy, of Croagin-
golong, is fit to be a deacon.
It was on the Manly boat. We were sitting
beside a man with eyes like spider-webs, and a nose
that shone like the red planet Mars. Beside him
sat his little daughter, who was very much afraid
of being shipwrecked. “ Nev’r you mind, my
little geD,” he said, reassuringly; “yer old father s
w .th you, and he’s goin' to take you up to see your
brothers in the Vernon; and then we'il go to
brother Jack In the Hospital; and after that we’ll
go to your uncle Jim In the Benevolent.” “And
where’ll we go after that, dad ? ” she asked. “ Oh,
then,” he replied, “we’ll go and see your mother
in gaol.” And then this highly-connected young
lady crowed till we thought she would choke. After
all, it is a lone world, and one must have relations:
and when one has them, it is just as well they
should be where it is easy to find them.
Said Alderman Dan unto Alderman Green;
“ Those tenders you worked in a way I call mean.”
Said Alderman Green to his colleague, O’Connor;
“ Lawks! you of all men to be prating of honour!”
Steps in Harris, the Mayor, with his little oil-can,
Lubricating around on the Dufferin plan—
The which worked so well that out cries Dan
O’Connor:
“ As mine own I regard Alderman Green’s sense of
honour;”
While contemporaneously Alderman Green
Avows his belief that Dan’s cleaner than clean.
There is a man now in the debtors’ prison
at Darlinghurst for the sum of six shillings. He"
was sold off by his creditors, and his effects realised
that muou less than the amount of the debt. He
has a destitute wife and family. Well, we like the
debtors’ prison well enough in summer, when the
pomegranate tree outside the window is in bloom,
and reminds you of the similes of Persian poets
for the cheeks of their Sultanas: but we don’t
think we should like it for a debt of six shillings.
The harpies who put this man here are very pro-
bably pmlslng God at this very moment. God has
an excellent temper.
Was it only an egregious blunder, or was a
deliberate insult to the Sydney public intended by
the writer of Friday’s leader in the Evening
News, which began: “South Africa and the do-
mains that there adjacent lie.” It is a fine thing to
know “ Romeo and Juliet,” even though only well
enough to misquote. But a little learning is a
dangerous thing, and the editor is on the horns of
a dilemma. Was it through ignorance or audacity
that he countenanced an allusion which would
hardly have found place in the Shroud.
A Sunday school superintendent in Mary-
borough (Q.) made what the local paper calls “a
humorous speech” at a muffin feast held in that
town a short time ago. A Sunday school superin-
tendent with humour is as rare a bird as a minister
of the Lord with meekness. We should like to see
this Maryborough humourist. We had a jocose
bible-reader down here some time ago. His wag-
gery was so overpowering that he threw up his
billet in a country church to come to Sydney to
paralyse us. We saw him a day or two ago, and
we can honestly say that his bricklaying is as
humorous a thing as we have ever seen.
Here is a paragraph that will bring joy to
cobwebbed “chambers” in many a musty right-of-
way. A “steady and respectable" solicitor is
wanted at Port Darwin. The Chinese up there
have about seven thousand cases they want to try
at law, and the only solicitor they have i a retail
dealer in soap and candles, who knows no more of
law than a Judge. They nave boycotted him, and
now the poor creatures are pining- away in peace,
for want of a friendly lawyer to set them by the
ears. And they can pay through the nose. We
consider this a splendid chance tor some of the
bewigged but briefless young men we see so fre-
quently picking their teeth on the Supreme Court
step-:. Morrison, of the Age, too, shows that the
walk up there is not such a very formidable mat-
ter.
The Noozb thinks Mr. Spicer is pedantic,
and complacently palliates “Australian twang”
as a merely “provincial” peculiarity. In Eng-
land, the language of cultured society is dis-
tinguished by the absence of provincialisms, that
is to say, of ugly mannerisms of tone or phrase.
The Queen’s English, though it may be philologi-
cally enriched by, is quite distinct from, the broad
sing-song of the Yorkshire man, the drawl of the
Midlander, and the brisk twang of the Cockney.
Mr. Spicer wants us to preserve the Queen’s Eng-
lish, and is loth that we should escape American
censure for speaking our tongue with a British
accent. But the Hevernin Nooze knows more of
’Ackn'iy and Tghgate than of ’ Yde Park, and likes
a Brummagem style flavoured with the hidioms of
Hlslington.
He was respectably dressed, middle-aged,
and innocent-looking. He was also miraculously
hard up. Dropping into the Sydney Evening
News office, he asked the “boss” for assistance,
representing- himself asacompo. Hut the foreman
had travelled, and so the applicant was handed a
“stick,” and asked to set his name up. “ We don’t
do that in the old country,” he remarked simply;
“when we apply to our mates for assistance they
gives it to us, an’ no questi ons axed.” “Ah,” re-
plied the foreman, “we’ve improved upon that
here. Surely you can set your name ?” The man
gave a comprehensive look all round and dis-
covering no sympathy in the sceptical faces, made
a bee-line to the door. He was a libel juryman,
whose bank account had been paralysed by an
avenging Providence.
The Gundagai Times recalls the fact that
31 years ago, on :28th ult., the pretty town of Gun-
dagai, then on the river Hat, was swept away by a
terrible flood. The river rose to the height of 38
feet, and in a few hours hundreds of people were
homeless, and 81 met with a watery grave.
An old chap who was known as “Gwillira ”
died the other day at Cootamundra, and the local
paper observes: “The waning of our leafless
month of June saw also the withering of a resident
of Cootamundra who was in the sere and yellow
leaf of life.” He seems also to have been in a hotel
cellar when the critical moment arrived. Up
Cootamundra way, when a person is knocked on
the head with a quart-pot in a public-house he
appears to “ wither.” “ u willim ” had some bodily
and mental peculiarities. The former were most
observable in his nose, and the latter in his cheek.
He was great at elections, and seldom failed to run
his candidate through. He leaves a wife and
family, who (oddly enough) are quite unprovided
for.
The Mayor of Cooina has announced his
fixed resolve not to “bow to any man who did not
possess a better intellect than nlmself.” We hardly
think it is in the best taste fo: him to crow in ■ his
way just because Carlyle is dead. By the way, it
was at a Cooina municipal meeting, according to
one of the local papers, that “ a drunken chairman
crawled under the table or somewhere else out of
sight.” When a man can show so much wisdom
when ho is drunk, what might he not show when
he is sober ’? This is a problem that must forever
remain unsolved. Nobody is ever sober at Cooina.
If it were otherwise, there would be nobody in
Cooina.
The other day two station hands had
“ melted” their cheques, and as they were being
assisted to “the logs” by the local bobby, one, who
was merely “ elevated,” but by no means drunk,
fell limply down, as if his vertebral column had
been telescoped. The olHcer, thinking he was in a
tit, passed stolidly on with his other prisoner, and,
having secured him to a chip that would make a
mainmast for a three-decker, returned for the
cataleptic. Did he find him ? Well, yes—but not
where he left him. In tact the law-breaker was
three miles away, detailing, to the noisy satisfac-
tion of his mates, how he had “slipped the peeler.”
Those who saw his lower max lla drop as the
pewter-button representative of the law again
hove in sight, will not readily forget it.
It is alleged that a most disgrace! nl affair
recently took place within tram distance of Sydney.
Two gentlemen who differed endeavoured to come
to an understanding by means of muscular ex-
ertion. Spot, near the sea: seconds in attendance,
principals disrobed and wiring in. During one
round it was discovered that one of the foemen, a
native (shame be it!), was doing very effective
work with a sharp-edged signet ring; soon after-
wards, that during a momentary cessation his
second had strewn his fist with cayenne pei per;
and, finally, in the row resultant on this exposure,
the culprit, forgetting hi- 1 own scheme, drew his
hand across his own eyes, and was Immediately
blinded with the agony he Intended for his op-
ponent.
An old man died of starvation in Glasgow
lately. It was on a Sunday. The city authorities
were informed of the case early on that day, but
“refused to visit the dying man on the ground
that they had no inspectors on duty on Sunday.”
It is of far greater moment that the soul of an
inspector should not, be imperilled by his working
on the Sawbath than that a pauper should be saved
from a miserable death. We have plenty of peo-
ple among us who would like the same sort of
Sunday observance instituted here. They are
mostly men who rob the widow and orphan on
week-days, and like to sit in their pews and plan
fresh robberies on the Sawbath. The only thing t hat
enables u -o bear up against these things is the
knowledge that the devil is not yet dead.
Is there anything certain in these delusive
days? We are beginning to think there is not.
One by one our most cherished beliefs have been
ruthlessly torn from us. We have given up a
hope in a happy hereafter; we have given up
faith in woman; we have even given up confidence
in church bazaars. But there was one belief we
clung to in the midst of these shifting sands of
doubt. It was that oysters should always be eaten
with stout. Now even this is taken from us. An
American doctor has found out that stout is the
very worst drink possible to take with oysters,
and that even spirits are a better concomitant.
This is a crusher. It would be more of a crusher
only we don’t eat oysters. But we had a sweet old
superstition about their being inseparable from
stout, all the same. And now that is demolished.
But the demijohn is still left us.
On dit the N.8.W. Government Printer is
now worrying up a new work, which, when pub-
lished, will blaze out in the world of letters with
all the dazzling refulgence of a tallow “ dip ” in a
miser's pantry. This valuable addition to our
colonial literature will be entitled, “Jokes of Jus-
tice, or the Joe Millers of our Law Courts. A
complete collection of all the witticisms, puns,
humorous utterances, and wholesome fun et our
Colonial Judges.” “ Sentence of death ” sermons
will bo found under the heading of “ Shrieks from
the Scaffold,” and the columns of “Wholesome
Fun ” will be specially devoted to some recent re-
markable “summing up” orations. Portraits of
the most distinguished legal luminaries that ever
graced, or disgraced, the Colonial bar, will bo
scattered throughout the book, and it is also re-
ported that some of the leading Judges of the day
will be “taken from life,” but we fear this is only
a “circus-poster” announcement, us it contains
too much joy for the present sinful generation.
The cost of the work will be one farthing.
It was at Burraugoug. He sported quite
a profusion of jewellery, and had that easy mvnlr
faire which is only to be acquired by long resi-
dence on the Lachlan ministering to the require-
ments of bullocks. Having entered into a contract
tor the sale of some of those useful animals, he
threw down a £10 cheque to pay the solicitor his
fee. But this “ Burraugoug ” limb hud been there
before, and so the “ squatter” had to get someone
else to cash it. Singular, isn’t it, the number of
people to be found ready to cash cheques for per-
sons they never saw ? The authorities now hold
the document, and are solicitous for the safety of
the drawer. Getting on the Murrumburrah coach,
the stranger was delicately reminded that Ins fare
would be welcome. “ Oh! ” he laughingly replied,
“how forgetful of me.” Then he put his hand in
his pocket, and drew out his crisp, neatly-folded
discharge from the Young gaol. “That will do,”
said the drh er, seutentiously, as the coach started.
Ring out, wild bells, to the smoke-dimmed sky,
The flying tram, the blazing light,
Citizens, ride day and night;
Ring out, wild bells, and let them hie.
Ring out the 'bus, ring in the tram;
Ring warning bells across the street,
The tram is passing loud and fleet;
Ring in the true, ring out the sham.
Ring out the “ imps ” that sap the mind
Of those who fall into the maw
Of engine-monsters, and at law
Ring damages to deaf and blind.
Ring out a slowly dying cause
And ancient forms of ’bus and horse;
Ring in the motor’s nobler force—
Broad-seated cars and Goodchap’s laws.
Ring out the straw that nursed disease,
Ring out the narrow box—“ here pay,”
Ring in the thousand trams a day,
The thousand guards with—“ tickets, please,”
A STORY WITHOUT WORDS.
CHAP. IV.
CHAP. HI.
CHAP. II.
CHAP. I.


Prepared according to the directions of Prof.
E. N. Horsford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED FOR
DYSPEPSIA, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA. WAKEFULNESS. SEA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY, &c.
No Danger can Attend its Use.
Great Relief by Its Use.
WINSLOW LEWIS, M.D.. of Boston, the distin-
guished and popular physician, said:
“ Having in my own person experienced those
ills for which the Acid Phosphate is prescribed, I,
having found great relief and alleviation by it*
use, most cheerfully attest my appreciation of its
excellence.”
Indigestion and Bladder and Kidney
Troubles.
Portland, Me., Oct. 2nd,' 1880.
Hereford’s Acid Phosphate has become a favour-
ite remedy in ray practice. When completely tired
out by prolonged wakefulness and overwork, it is
of the greatest value to me. I have given it in
certain forms of dyspepsia, in all cases of nervous
exhaustion from overwork, in certain affections of
the bladder and kidneys, and have always been
satisfied with the results. I prescribe it more and
more as I become better acquainted with its pro-
perties. Of all the.samples of medicine sent me
during the past dozen years, Hereford’s AcidPhos-
phate is the only one I have ever found which has
Become a necessity in my own household. Per-
haps I should hardly have been willing to write my
impressions of the Acid Phosphate if I had not
in my own person experienced its good effects.
C. O. FILES, M.D.
Derangement of Secretory and Nervous
Systems.
Rutland, Vt., Jan. 33,1879.
While I am exceedingly averse to giving certifi-
cates, and almost always decline to do so, yet in
the case of “ Hereford s Acid Phosphate,” I am
willing to say, that, having used it very consider-
ably, I can testify to its great value in functional
derangements of the secretory and nervous sys-
tems. CHAS, WOODHOU8E, M.D.
Pamphlets, with full information as to the
wonderful curative properties of Horford’s Acid
Phosphate, furnished free on application to
BARRON, MOXHAM & CO., SYDNEY.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
2v£a,gric Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
“ It Works like a Charm.”
It is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as waterquenches fire. It cures
Fprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Braises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Bums, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an internal remedy It tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Throat, and Dyp>
theiia.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use In
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers In
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported into this country, and have
gained throughout the colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. 1
leather, and the upholstery is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their finish
BECAUSE they are each and all built under special
instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage builders in America,
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say they are the
best.
American Carriage Emporium,
WTNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
BARRON, MOXHAM & CO.,
Sols Agents.
There was an atrocious outrage at Watson's
Bay. lately—sacrilege, in fact —over which a mon-
ster meeting waxed very indignant. The culprit
has been caught—a mouse who got inside the
organ, and chewed some of the works. The indig-
nation is consequently subsiding.
The Late Charles Packer.
Charles Sandy's Packer, musician, died
Last week. And was followed to the grave
ty —we forgot how many hundreds of people,
each of whom carried a huge handkerchief
to stifle his emotion. We knew the dead
musician. He was an old man, with weary
eyes and furrowed face. He was a poor
>):nan, with shabby hat and threadbare coat,
lie was the greatest master of music in these
Lands. He was a dweller on the heights.
He knew the giants of harmony —Beethoven
:and the rest. He played duets with Queen
/Adelaide. He wrote compositions that were
praised by the critics of the time, while he
was still little more than a boy. He came
■out here and composed a greater classical
work than, perhaps, any that will see the
light in these colonies for many a year to
come. We mean “The Crown of Thorns.”
What his posthumous work, “David,” is
like, we do not yet know. But he is dead,
and it doesn’t much matter to him now what
his works are worth. If he had been a
t.in-kettler, like some of the other musical
professors we have among us, he might have
been rich. We have seen him, in his old
brown overcoat, passing furtively through
the crowd, like a dim shadow in the sun-
shine. He has told ns that he was in such
wretched circumstances that he was ashamed
l to tell anyone where he lived. And also
that, for the same reason, he could not ask
pupils to come to his house. Also, we regret
to say, for other reasons which he did not
tell us. So he crawled into town every day,
from heaven only knows where, and gave
lessons at a piano provided for him by the
♦ kindness of Mr. Huenerbein. The hundreds
of people who followed him to his grave
when he was dead, probably cut him
rin the streets when he was alive. We
need hardly say that we are not now speak-
ing of his real friends; they will know better
themselves. We speak of the wisps of straw
who would not have helped him to a meal
in his lifetime, but who, having attended his
funeral, will feel themselves justified in
referring to him with familiar pity as “ poor
old Packer” a* lor g as they live. Which
makes us think that the worst evil that can
; befall genius always comes after death. But
the cold world was not all to blame for his
failure. The seeds of unsuccess were in him
when he was born. It was to be. Mr.
loft a large family in poor circum-
stances. Perhaps his admirers will remem-
ber this when they have got over their grief.
But we were almost forgetting—his family
is not yet dead. Consequently, it is unde-
serving of sympathy. Such simple people,
however, as do not need handkerchiefs to
stifle their emotion will thank us for telling
them that they will best show respect for
the old maestro by helping his family. We
speak without authority, but as we speak
with sincerity we hope we shall be pardoned.
As for the dead master, let him rest. He has
learnt the mystery of the greatest music of
all—the music of Silence.
At a fire in a suburban newspaper office in
Melbourne, a translation of the Bible Into the
language of the New Hebrides was burnt. And
now, we suppose, the natives of that group will
be burnt. If they are. it will be somewhat annoy-
ing to them to meet the words of grace so late in
the day. Imagine the agony of the man who reads
the Bible for the first time in belli 'There will be
one comfort for them down below, however. They
will be able to get plenty of missionaries to
barbecue.
A man went insolvent in a Southern town,
the other day. He gave this us one reason for his
insolvency—that he “ kept an open house for
everybody who came there eating and drinking.”
That’s it. That’s what has ruined the writer of
this paragraph. But then, he has been ruined
seventy-three times, so that he has grown to look
for financial wreck as a matter of course. After
being ruined a few times more, the writer proposes
to sell himself lo an antiquarian as arehieological
remains.
A writer in the Mail, speaking of our
horse-artillery, says that, gazing on its evolutions,
there is aroused “even in this prosaic age, some
portion of that spirit that animated our ancestors
who, from the days of Poictiers and Cressy to the
field of Waterloo, or the frozen trenches before
Sebastopol, made the English soldier the terror of
his European rival and antagonist.” We won’t
quarrel with this sentence because it is ungram-
matical. We forgive its fault for the sake of its
fun. But, if we recollect right, it was malt liquor
that animated our ancestors, and not spirit at all.
However, we really don’t think that a peaceful
journal like the Mail should print such inflam-
mable articles as that from which we have just
quoted. Some day the horse-artillery may get
hold of the Maid and read these articles, and, it
their feelings are at all excited, we shall hardly be
able to keep from proclaiming war against Pyr-
in ont. In the event of this coming to pass,
it would be an evidence of sagacity on the
part of the Pyrmont people to hide their spoons
and take in the washing from the lines, for our
soldiers are desperate when they are once roused.
And it would be discreet not to leave the milk-
jugs out on the door-step in the morning.
We have a new scheme of Municipal
Government to propose, which, speaking modestly,
we consider one of the greatest discoveries of the
century. Wo got the central idea from the
Parkes Council. It proposes to fine every
alderman who absents himself from a council-
meeting a guinea a time tor each offence. Let
every alderman absent himself for the space of a
year and pay his fines. We’ll say, for the sake of
argument, there are twelve in the Council, exclu-
sive of the Mayor, and that they meet every month.
Very well, at a guinea each, this will amount to
144 guineas at the end of twelvemonths. At least
another guinea a head each time will be saved the
ratepayers in various expenses, and particularly in
the avoidance of municipal blunders. This will
make the sum of 288 guineas. Add to this 120
guineas for the Mayor as being—we speak of no
particular Mayor at present—as a rule five times
more stupid than the rest of the aldermen. This
amounts to 408 guineas. Now, this will keep the
ratepayers from the neces ity of paying taxes.
And the aldermen themselves will gain, because
they will be able to do business, where before they
were wrangling at a council-meet ng, and calling
each other hard names. And, if it is necessary to
keep up the office of Mayor, a goat might be
elected thereto, as an animal combining dignity
with dulness of comprehension. At the same time,
also, there is this other advantage, a goat could
not read addresses—dearest of privileges to the
Mayor’s heart.
That poor young Clarke, so shamefully
abandoned by Hungerford, met his death at the
hands of the blacks, there is now scarcely a possi-
bility of doubt. The very sleeve-links he wore
have been recovered from the blacks of the Henry
River, and have been sent down to Mr. Clarke,
senior, and identified by him. There la one strange
thing, that these relics should have been foundln
tho possession of blacks on the Henry River, when
Clarke was d sserted on the Mitchell.
HOW HE DIED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Take my horse,” said the squatter to Nabbage—
“ ’tls forty Ions - miles at the least;
Ride as if all hell’s devils rode after, and don’t
spare yourself or the beast;
And mark me, my cove, if I hear that you stop
for as much as a nip.
I’ll hide you while God {fives me strength, and
then pass Curly Johnson the whip.
“ Give the doctor this letter, and tell him to get his
best horses and drive
As he never has driven before, if ho wants to find
Freddie alive;
Say I’ll pay him a dozen times over if he flogs
them until they d.-op dead,
And be there in two hours, or by G ” (there is
no need to add what he said).
There was no need of threats to urge Nabbage—
one Instant, and firm on the back
Of the boss’s blood mare, he was flying away
down the dimly-marked track—
Away in the thickening darkness, with the hand
of an awful despair
On his soul, for the help that was hopeless for a
life 1 hat was past even prayer.
Not a man on the station liked Nabbage—he held
himself coldly aloof
From the lads in the hut, and his eyes always
dwelt on the floor or the roof;
He was pock-marked and wrinkled and slouched,
and at meal times sat ever apart,
As though nursing some scorn untranslated that
grew in the shade of his heart.
At first all his mates thought him sulky, and said
he was putting it on:
Then, the sense of the hut, being taken, decided
him just a bit gone;
But Stumpy, the cook, held the view that the
man was a natural skunk,
And to heighten the public disfavour he oft went
alone and got drunk.
Curly Johnson, the super., despised him, and
never neglected a chance
To bully and snub the poor wretch, who replied
not with even a glance;
He was general drudge at. the homestead, and
slaved in a spiritless way
At whatever they told him to do, for whatever
they fancied to pay.
Strange that Freddie, the master’s one darling,
the golden-haired, impudent boy.
With the slang of the bxish on his lips, and the
great eyes of Helen of Troy—
The eager imperious young master, whose talk
was of yearling and brands —
Should pick out this man for a chum, and ignore
tnc more sociable hands.
But it was so, and often and often from daybreak
till set of the sun
The two rode away, through the summer far out
on the limitless run—
The boy on his favourite pony, and Nabbage—I
think you can guess
That the steed Curly Johnson let him have was
not of the build of Black Bess.
And everyone noticed that Nabbage grew gentle
and sweet to the child,
And a rumour spread wildly abroad that one
night in the hut he had smiled
As a man might whose thoughts were away in
the grave of one cherished and kissed,
While his comrades grew heated at euchre, or
smoked their unspeakable twist.
And things went on thus till one day when the
gum-leaves hung lifelessly down
In the haze of a ring of bush-flres that by night
made each hill seem a town.
They had yarded some steers to be branded, a
wild-looking, dangerous lot,
And Freddie had kindled his fire, end the iron
was just getting hot—
When Joe, the new boundary-rider, whose con- |
duct was painfully flash.
Passed down by his side of the fence, hitching in i
his new silk-woven sash,
All at once came a rush, as of water, and Joe i
made one spring past the gate
Which held tor a minute, then crashed with the !
strain of the multiplied weight—
And Freddie, poor Freddie, looked up, with a
laugh, to see what had gone wrong,
When thirty mad steers burst upon him, and
trampled and tossed him along;
Every man rushed at once to his help, and they
lifted him, silent and white—
And that was the reason why Nabbage was riding i
away through the night.
Every light on the hills out of view, in the dim
solemn glens not a light,
Not a sound or a stir in the depths of the marvel-
lous hush of the night;
Not a pulse or a heart-beat of Nature, no break
in the infinite rest,
Every star with the eyelight of God, lidded down
in the East and the West.
Half a mile from a town wrapped in midnight, a
broken-necked horse at a creek.
And a man with death’s dew on his forehead and
blood on his coat and his cheek!
“ I am dying—I feel death upon me, but yet—even
yet—if God wills
I may crawl on my knees to the doctor’s—yes!
this is the last of the hills.
“ To the left is the way I am certain—God grant
that it be not too late—
God grant that my life may be paid for the life
of my poor little mate 1
Barling child of the woman I loved in the days
when—0, God! is it vain ?
No! for your sake, my lost angel’s boy, T can
flght yet awhile with this pain.
“ Years ago, when the curse overtook me, when
drink flung its chain round my lot,
She turned with a shudder of loathing and scorn
from the p.tiful sot;
But to-night mav be large with atonement-to-
night, it her spirit may know
How and why I am wrestling with Death, may
redeem the love lost long ago I
“ Not two hundred yards now I If I reach it, though
even to die at the door,
This letter will tell him—O, Heaven! the thought
never struck me before:
The doctor will see I am hurted, and stop to
attend me! What way
Can I think of in time to prevent half a raomeut
of needless delay ?
“Ha I I have it. He knows, like the rest, that one-
half of my time 1 am ‘tight,’
I’ll pretend that I stopped out at Brown’s, and
got drunk—for the last time—to-night;
I’ll muffle this handkerchief well round my face,
and he’ll not see the mark
Of the rock on my head where I fell with the
mare, when we leaped in the dark.”
So the man, like a serpent disabled, writhes on
with deep agonised moans,
And here and there tinges with blood fallen logs,
and dead twigs, and sharp stones,
Till he wearily drags round a garden, and finds a
warm light in the gloom,
And crawls up and beats with his hand on the
door of the young doctor’s room.
A man most decidedly drunk, with a letter held
out In his hand?
The doctor can’t quite make it out, and proceeds
In stern words to demand
What he wants? who is he? but the drunkard,
half-rolling awav from the door,
Curls up where the light cannot reach him, and
calmly commenc * to snore.
Then the doctor tears open the letter, and yells
to the stable-boy: “ Dick,
Fix up Starlight and Fan in the buggy, and have
’em around pretty quick.”
Then angrily kicks the fallen drunkard, and
seizing the drugs he may need.
Drives away up the street with the greys at the
uttermost reach of their speed.
Then the drunkard half-rises and listens, a wist-
ful strange smile on his face,
And mutters: “Thank God, they believed it!—in
two hou* s they’ll be at the place,
And whether ho lives or has wandered to dwell
with his mother above,
I have triumphed awhile over death for the boy
with the eyes of my love.”
So he died. And I can’t well help thinking that
if, after all they’ve to say—
I moan Tyndall and Darwin, and such like, the
eighty-ton guns of a day—
After all they have proved about plasma, it
chanced so excessively odd
That the levers and springs they lay bare are
controlled by ho right hand of God.
Not a new God with all their improvements, but
simply the old-fashioned Lord
Whom our unscientific progenitors knelt to at
night and adored
If the backward old fogies who still fancy Christ
our pre-eminent Friend,
In defiance of Science and Reason should hold all
the trumps in the end
It may be, the rousabouf swiper who rode for
the doctor that night
Is in Heaven with the bishops and priests, robed
and sceptred and shining with light;
It may be that Freddie and Nabbage roam over
plains pleasant and wide.
Where wings take the place of bush horses, and
bound rit s arc spacious to ride.
J. FARRELL.
Goulburu, July Hi.
THE LATE CHARLES PACKER, MUSICIAN AND COMPOSER.


denominational drops.
David Buchanan’s screed (in the Rum)
about “ Frail Free Thought,” etc., was, in its more
hicid portions, an evident crib from Farrar; and in
{he less lucid portions (which abounded) a farrago
of involved bunkum.
The young men belonging to the literary
and Theological Institute have settle I it. A few
nivhts ago. in the Wesleyan schoolroom at Some-
where the subject of debate was whether the
f'oinm’ons were right in rejecting the Affirmation
Rill A vote was taken* and it was seen at once
that the Commons were quite justified in what
rhev did. This will be good news for Sir Stafford
Vorthcote and his supiSorteys. But is It not un-
commonly like going to iftw with the devil and
holding the court in Hades V
The Sabbatarians carried the day in Mel-
bourne. We respect these men, because, after all,
thev arc sincere. They hav6 been called “ narrow-
minded,” and “ bigoted,” and a number of hard
hames, by people who did not understand them,
out they bore it all patiently and turned the other
cheek. By the way, it was an odd thing that about
me wreck of the George Roper, at Port Phillip
Reads. Didn’t hear about it ? That’s queer. Well,
you see the George Roper went ashore there the
other day, and the wreck was subsequently sold to
a syndicate of Sabbatarians. These men had rolled
op the night before to the Parliament House in
defence of a great principle. They it was who con-
demned Sunday opening of Museums, &c. So they
chartered a steamer, and sent her down the bay on
Sunday to save as much as they could from the
stranded vessel. The weather was rough and a
£°dd few men had a narrow squeak for their lives:
out then didn’t the purchasers strike a patch I
And that’s why we like them. You see it is'wicked
«> look at a picture or road on a Sunday, but when
it really comes to business, why—give us Sabba-
tarians.
On Saturday last the Bishop of Newcastle
offered to the public In his ponderous and (but for
some of the quotations) inane Letter a. i ‘‘Extract
Sunday reading,” headed by him “The Dangers
ot Denial. Why did not he honestly state whence
it was extracted ? and why did he not quote a few
more lines of the original ? It was disingenuous on
the Bishop’s part (1) not to own that it was Mal-
lock’s “ New Republic ” he was quoting from, and
(3) to have stopped short where he did. The ex-
tract Is from Herbert’s (l.e„ Ruskln’s) sermon in
the private theatre of Otho Lawrence’s luxurious
vll la, and, parody though it be. It is (what it is meant
for) a withering denunciation of the ecclesiasticism
that cries peace when there is no peace, and places
what it is pleased to call faith before honest work.
The Bishop should at least have quoted from the
same sermon the following portions For I —
who am I that speak to you? Am I a believer ?
No, I am a doubter, too. Once I could pray every
morning, and go forth to my da,’s labour stayed
and comforted. But now I can pray no longer.
You have taken my God away from me, and I
know not where you have laid Him.” “You are
all deniers or doubters, I tell you, every one of you.
The deniers I know will not contradict me; so at
present I need not speak to them. It is to you, the
majority—you who will contradict me ; you who
are so busy with your various affirmations, with
your prayers, your churches ... it is to you
that are darkened and uncertain as to this, whether
there is really any God at all who can hear all the
prayers you utter to Him, or whether there is
really any other life at all where the aspirations
you are so proud of will be realised.”
• • •
The Chicago Y.M.C. A. have recently pro-
mulgated the ex-cruciatingly Christian idea that
their business is to give the Gospel only to well-
dressed young men A Baptist minister named
Evans is going to tackle Bright next. Same old
subject, “Does Science contradict the Bible V”
“ when thinking over the social and intellectual
life of this city,” said the Kev. J. Jeflerls the other
Sunday, “ I am tempted to burst into laughter at
the silly efforts of those puny men who call them-
selves ‘Free-thinkers,’ and who think they can
overturn Christianity.” Where Jetleris makes the
mistake is in supposing that intellectual Free
Thought wishes to overturn Christianity. All that
the intelligent moral self-respecting Freethinker
desires is the putting down of the ecclesiastical
shams and humbugs that under the pretence of
being the exclusive interpreters of Christian! y
have too long battened on the superstition of a
(through their agency) Christless people. ..“Per-
sonally, and not on religious grounds,” says Mr.
Service, the Victorian Premier, “ I look upon the
Bible as the greatest book in the world.” It’s
astonishing what a high opinion some people have
of a work before they read it Archbishop Goold,
of Melbourne, says that any of his church mem-
bers who attend Salvation Army meetings “ will
not be granted absolution, unless from himself.”
Vested interests again Rev. Mr. Spicer, in his
“Australian Twang” said that a level gloomy
country had a great influence upon a people’s
language, making speech dull and heavy. Guess
Spicer came from the Netherlands—or from Pata-
gonia — The Palmer River (N.Q.) people have
starved the Anglican minister out of the place
Last week one of Mrs. Hampson’s con-
verts, who had been going about blatantly pro-
claiming his salvation, went in a sudden access of
enthusiasm and drowned himself. No revival ser-
vice Missionary Gribble, of Warangesda, has
been starved out. He and his blacks had just
got to manage on a straw a day when the thing
collapsed, and this notwithstanding the fact that
Sydney Anglicans were getting up a bazaar in
joint aid of his and the Zenana mission On his
way to,Frisco per the City of New Vork, Arch-
bishop Vaughan made himself quite too deliciously
agreeable. He Initiated lectures and promoted
fun, and proved himself a broth of a boy. The
U.S. Customs folk passed his luggage without
examination One of John Osborne’s brother
Wesleyan parsons recently wrote an anonymous
letter to a Wollongong journal, denouncing the
heretic with skunklike acerbity. The “ heretic’s”
solicitor demanded the writer’s name from the
journal management, who complied with the re-
quest. At the late meeting in Sydney, one of the
most active partisans was the writer of the anony-
mous latter, who must have felt (as the W, Argus
properly remarks) very small on being confronted
with proof of the authorship of the production
On Sunday, seven girls were received as novices
and three took the vows as nuns, at the Abbotsford
Convent of the Good Shepherd (Vic.) The
Dunedin Presbytery have sanctioned the use of
of instrumental music in St. Andrew’s Church.
One of the opposition among the congregation
called the proposed instrument a screech owl—
The latest Anglican idea in a South Coast town, is
to carry round the hat to raise funds for cleaning
and painting the buggy of the Reverend Mr.
Blank, one or the best paid and best fed clergymen
in N.S.W.
* * *
The Pope proposes to found a R.C. College
at Oxford... .Times says “It has been reserved for
the Salvation Army to use masquerade as a means
of conversion, deliberately to appeal to the lower
nature instead of to the higher, to vulgarise and
degrade the very end itself of all religious teaching
by the deliberate adoption of coarse and debasing
means of attaining it” The Bishop of Lincoln
(Christopher Wordsworth, author of “ Greece,” &c.,
son of the youngest brother of the “ Lake ” poet,)
is about to resign — Bands play every Sunday in
Hyde Park, London. Not long since, the Sunday
atmosphere was enlivened by the tunes of “ Scots
whahae” and “Rory O’More.”....The parents of
the well-known C. H. Spurgeon celebrated their
fiftieth (golden) wedding anniversary in May, at the
great preacher’s house. Forty of their descend-
ants were present. The Spurgeon family have all,
so far, carried out the biblical command touching
multiplication very faithfully.... Just imagine the
horror of the ritualistic Rev. Mr. Metcalf, of St.
Bartholomew’s, Clay Cross, Eng., when about to
administer the Sacrament the other day he dis-
covered that some miscreant had abstracted the
contents of the wine-bottle and substituted ink!
Mr L. F. Heydon addressed the Yassites on
the Land Question on Saturda\. He reviewed the
Moms-Rankcn report, buttered the Government
and propounded a land scheme of his own, which
may thus be summarised: Country to be open to
purchase in enlarged areas, for 15 annual payments
of one shilling each per acre. If one-flfth of the
runs were resumed, the rest could get 10 years’
leases, because one-fifth of the runs is liOOOOOOO
acres, and that should suffice for 10 years’ wants
The resumed runs could, if necessary, be paid for
in Government debentures, and such a rent could
be put on the remaining leased runs with their
good tenure-say £4,000.000 a year to begin with as
this would, with the prices obtained for the resold
land, in 10 years time buy back all the colony from
the squatter. Resumption in no ease to be com-
pulsory; but if a squatter refused fair terras re-
sume all his leasehold land and leave him his
Isolated peacocked purchases, and sue him if ha
trepassed off them. *
A CHAPTER IN CABS.


H
VDROPATH Y.— MR. JOSEPH REEVE;
Hydropathic Physician.
An Infallible System of Purification for the Cure
of Coughs, Colds Acute or Chronic Indigestion, Con-
stipation, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Paralysis. Liver
Complaint, Skin Eruptions, or any other Inflam-
matory Diseases. All persons who are suffering,
and weary of using physio, and hopeless, are in-
vited to adopt this Hygiene System. A few weeks
treatment will suffice for nearly every case.
Ladies and Children attended to. In-door Patients
received at the Establishment. Terms on
application.
“Throw physic to the dogs, I’ll none of it.”—
“Purification in the old law did save life." Milton.
Address:
8 Royal Terrace, Nicholson Street,
FITZROT, MELBOURNE.
wmmm
■WHS
■ ' ■ ’
,
“ubS
The Autoph
THE ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY
have been appointed Australian Agents for
this, the Climax of Musical Invention. Call and
see them.
GEORGE STREET,
Just Opposite the Entrance to the Markets.
The Autophone is a wonderful little Instrument,
which, while it weighs less than three pounds, has
the lungs of a full-sized parlour organ, and exe-
cutes its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect.
It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three keys, and
all the parts of most difficult music.
On it a child can correctly play, without instruc-
tion, any of its music, which at present consists of
over 300 selections from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas,
Waltzes, Polkas, Marches, Popular Songs, &c. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, in which chords predominate, but also
has wonderful power In executing very lively
pieces.
It is pitched for the voice or orchestra, and has
a dttle card-holder for convenience In singing;
Any orchestral Instrument, Violin, Flute, &c., can
be played to accompany the Autophone.
It Is entirely well-adapted for Country Churches,
Sunday Schools, the Family Circle, and also for
Dancing.
The AUTOPHONB Is like every other good thing,
the longer you have it the better you like It; and
as new music Is being published every week, it has
an endless fund of amusement In it.
■
30a.
’^y'lLCOX
and
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn shellers
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
&c. See. Sc c.
HEBBLEWHITE &CO.
416 GEORGE STREET.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. 3^/Tsit-a.red.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It Is bottled in bond for Export at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, therefore, rely that It
has not been in the hands of “ Whiskey Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
W. H. PALING,
362 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Pianofortes,
Pianofortes,
Pianofortes.
iug renowned En_
German Makers:—
Auoher
Ronisch
Hundt & Sohn
Bluthner
Steinway
Schledmayer
Challen & Son
Eeke
Erard
Pleyel
Collard & Collard
Broadwood & Sons
Kirktnan
Soufleto
Frost & Co.
Llpp & Sohn
Elcke
Paling & Co.
A. Bord
Berden & Co.
Herz
Schweohten
Sch wander
Forster
And numerous other Manufacturers.
ORGANS by Bull & Co., Palace Organ Company:
Waters & Co., Peloubert, and others.
Bell & Co’s. Celebrated Organs, besides other
Awards, gained First and Special Prize over all
others at the recent Sydney Exhibition.
HARMONIUMS by Alexander & Co., etc.
A Splendid Stock of MUSIC always on hand.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
Owing to W. H. P.’s, removal to those Immense
jromlses, next door, lately occupied by Prince,
)gg and Co., the present Magnificent Stock will be
(old at REDUCED PRICES at
W
H . PALING’S,
352 GEORGE STREET.
|Min
chinerv!
CHAMPtO
ENGINES
AND
iMran
SAW
Hem
Vi;
WT
FLEMING’S Carriage and Machinery Repository
22 and 23 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy tor RHEUMATISM,
» 7RALQIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE,
RAINS, BRUISES, BURNS. SCALDS, Ac., and
ttken Internally cures DIARRHCE1, DYSENTERY,
'RAMPS, COLIC, and all other Internal aches
nd pains.
**rlce, 2/- Sold Everywhere.
G. E. MOULTON, sole proprietor,
VI E17 T3 O XT E 1ST PI A.ND Y.
PAINT
55
mar
X>OAR’S HEAD STOUT.-Thls favourite brnndi
X_J ef Stout selected with great care from the-
best of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore-
oannot be excelled. To be procured everywhor«r
CATTELL & GO., Sole Agents.
315 George Street.
A few of our undertakings MOST SUCCESS
FULLY can-led out, among which will be found
the LARGEST, MOST DIFFICULT, and MOST
RESPONSIBLE events that have taken place since
the opening of this establishment.
His Worship the MAYOR’S PICNIC, for 450, at
Clontarf.
His Worship the MAYOR’S BALL, for 1800, Exhi-
bition Building, at which his Worship, John
Harris, entertained their R.H.’S PRINCES AL-
BERT and GEORGE, EARL CLANWILLIAM,
and the Officers of the Detached Squadron,
MASONIC BALL. English Constitution, for 1252,
Exhibition Building.
MASONIC BALL, N.S.W. Constitution, at Town
Hall, Sydney.
Visit of their R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Lithgow Valley Mines and Zigzag.
Dinner a to Russe, for 60, in Government Palace
Dining Car while travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000 SCHOOL CHIL-
DREN—re Queen’s Statue Demonstration—under
VERY SHORT NOTICE, only receiving the
order at 2.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot at 12.30
p.m. the following day.
Visit of THEIR R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT ana
GEORGE to Captain Cook’s Landing, south side
of Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon and refresh-
ment, for 100, under VERY SHORT NOTICE, re-
ceiving order at 9.30 p.m., to be ready on the spoi
at 1 p.m. following day.
The LADY MAYORESS’ RECEPTIONS, Town
Hall.
The UNION CLUB BACHELOR’S BALL, at Es hl-
bitlon Building, for 500.
The Barristers' Dinner to JUDGE WINDEYEH.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE INNE8.
Dinner A la Russe at St. Paul’s College, for 150 Mem
hereof the CBURCH OF ENG LAN b SYNOD.
Dinner A la Russe to the INTERCOLONIAL R1F1 E
TEAMS, Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at HAWKES
BURY RACES, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at RAND
WICK RACES, in Grand Stand.
The CONSULAR DINNER, in our new Banquet
Room.
ARMIDALE RAILWAY Demonstrations. Ban-
quet for 400; MAYOR’S BALL, 600, sameeveninu
and CITIZEN’S BALL, 500, the following even-
ing.
ALBURY-WODONGA RAILWAY DEMONSTRA-
TION —Grand Government Banquet for 1010
at Albury. Grand Ball, 800. following night.
Children’s feast, 1184, the following afternoon
and evening. Also, Breakfasts, Dinners, Teas,
and Suppers, in Government Dining Car, to
His Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus, the
Ministry, and Ms.P., while travelling to and
from Banquet, &c., &c.
Numerous Banquets and Entertainments by HD*
WORSHIP THE MAYOR at Town Hall, &c.
Numerous Dinners <1 to Russe in the N.S.W
GOVERNMENT PALACE DINING CAR, whit
travelling by rail, on account of the GOVERN
MENT.
Together with a numerous lot of Private Dinners
Feasts, Weddings, Garden Parties, Balls. Tee
Meetings Land Sales, Suppers, Picnics, Fishing
Excursions, &c.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 6th July, 1883,
IOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING
LEASES
1VTOTICE is hereby given that unless the
L> Lessees execute aud take delivery of the
indennentioned Gold-miuing Leases within
hirty days from this date, they will be de-
lated void. JOSEPH P. ABBOTT.
Hunter and Macleay Mining District.
No. 611; A. Moore: Portion No. g.l. 10; County
f Gloucester, parish of Knowla; 1 acre; Appli-
ation No Copeland 623.
Lachlan Mining District.
No. 124; J. Grundy: Portion No. 53; County of
(land, parish of Mandamah; 10 acres; Application
jo. Temora 82-13.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 12th July. 1883.
PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOL FOR GIRLS, WEST
MAITLAND.
k PPLICATION8 will be received at this office
\ for the position of HEAD MISTRESS in the
jove School. Salary, £300 a year, with a resi-
ince. ... ... ,
All applications must be in writing, and accom-
mied by testimonials as to qualifications and
laracter, and must be sent in on or before the
th instant. ......
It is to be understood that the engagement may
a terminated on either side after three months’
otlce, dated from the beginning of a quarter.
G. MILLER,
Acting Under-Secretary.
Department of Public Instruction.
Sydney, 12th July, 1883.
’UBLTC HIGH SCHOOL FOR BOYS, WEST
MAITLAND.
LPPLICATIONS will be received at this office
for the position of HEAD MASTER in the
ove School. Salary. £400 a year, with a rest-
Alfapplicatlons must be in writing, and accom-
mied by testimonials ns to qualifications and
inracter, and must be sent in on or before the
ih instant. , , x _
It is to be understood that the engagement may
! terminated on either side after three months
Rice, dated from the beginning of a quarter.
G. MILLER,
Acting Under-Secretary.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 12th July, 1883.
PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOL FOR GIRLS. GOUL-
BURN.
a PPLICATIONS will be received at this office
\_ for the position of HEAD MISTRESS in the
jo ve School. Salary, £300 a year, with a resi-
gn ce. , . ...
All applications must be in writing, and accom-
iniod by testimonials as to qualifications and
laracter, and must be sent in on or before the
ith instant.
It is to be understood that ti e engagement may
0 terminated on either side after three months
otice, dated from the begining quarter.
Acting Under-Secretary.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 12th July, 1883.
PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOL FOR BOYS, GOUL-
BURN.
Applications win be received at this office
for the position of HEAD MASTER in the
above School. Salary, £400 a year, with a resi-
dence. , .
All applications mus' be in writing, and accom-
panied by testimonials as to qualifications and
character, and must be sent in on or before the
20th instant. . , ..
It is to be understood that the engagement may
be terminated on either after three months’
notice, dated from the a quarter.
Acting Under-Secretary.
Turkish Baths.
For GENTLEMEN—OPEN DAILY (Sunday* and
Wednesday afternoons excepted).
For LADIES.—On Wednesday Afternoons only,
from 2 p.m. till 10 p.m.
These Baths have been pronounced to be highly
beneficial to all persons suffering from rheumatism,
gout, neuralgia, dyspepsia. Indigestion, cold, sci-
atica, and all complaints of this nature, as well as
being a healthy, invigorating renewing of the
System to all persons obliged to lead sedentary
ves.
Try It, and experience Its wonderful effects.
Prices of Admission—Single bath, 5s. Six tickets, £1.
After 6 p.m., 2s. for gentlemen only. Quarterly
ticket, £5. Family ticket as per arrangement.
0. A. 8HERWIN, Manager,
Bllgh Street.
CADET EXAMINATION, SURVEY OFFICE.
TT is hereby notified that an Examination of
I Candidates for Employment as Cadets In the
Department of the Surveyor-General will be held
early in November next. The exact date, when
fixed, will be duly notified. Candidates must have
attained the age of 16 years, or they will not be
eligible for examination.
Intending competitors can obtain further In-
formation upon applying by letter to the Surveyor-
General, or personally to the Secretary and
Cashier.
(Signed) P. F. ADAMS,
Surveyor-General.
Surveyor-General’s Office,
Sydney, 22nd June, 1883.
AND MANNELL.
SHIRT TAILORS, HOSIERS, & MERCERS.
208 George Street, Sydney.
Established 1844.
Our CELEBRATED WHITE SHIRTS, ready made
30s., 40s., 50s., 60s. the half-dozen.
Sydney Gymnasium !
LIVERPOOL STREET
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Gi.asp Daily.
ALE BRANCHES OF ATHLETICS TAUGHT.
O. H. d’HARCOURT, Instructor.
Robert butcher & co.
(Late William Long),
jar - WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
PT THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £100,000.
Allow Interest as followsSEVEN PER CENT
on fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £50 in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WAREHAM, Manager,
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 29th June, 1883.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR MINERAL
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the
Lessees execute and take delivery of the
Mineral Leases within
thirty days from this date, they will be de-
clared void. .
JOSEPH P. ABBOTT.
Peel and Uballa Mining District.
No. 286; D. James and another; Portion No. G.L.
12; County of Durham,parish of Prospero: 3acres;
Application No. Scone 81-5.
No.288: J. M. Creed and others; Portion No. G.L.
11; County of Durham, parish of Prospero;
7 acres; Application No. Scone 7.
No 289; T. J. Wilder and others; Portion No. G.L.
10; County of Durham, parish of Oldcastle; 5
acres; Application No. Scone 8.
No. 290; tt. Graham and others; Portion No. G.L.
6; County of Durham, parish of Oldcastle; 4acres;
Application No. Scone 9.
No. 291; J. Tllse and others; Portion No. g.l. 14;
County of Durham, parish of Omadale; 5 acres;
Application No. Scone 11.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 3rd July, 1883.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR MINERAL
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the
Lessees execute and take delivery of
the undermentioned Mineral Leases within
thirty days from this date, they will be de-
clared void.
JOSEPH P. ABBOTT.
No. 1593; J. Carey and another; Portion No. 258;
County of Gough, parish of Strathbogle North; 20
acres; Application No. Vegetable Creek 625.
No. 1601; J. Held and another; Portion No. 77;
County of Gough, parish of Tent Hill; 20 acres;
Application No. Vegetable Creek 646.
No. 1616; F. Roberts and another; Portion No.
131; County of Gough, parish of Lands End; 20
acres; Application No. Veg table Creek 659.
No. 1617; F. Roberts and another: Portion No. 90;
County of Gough, pa:lsh of Muir; 20acres; Por-
tion No. Vegetable Creek 660
Department of Public Instruction.
Sydney, 12th July, 1883.
PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOL EOR GIRLS,
BATHURST.
Applications win be received at this office,
for the position of HEAD MISTRESS In the
above School. Salary, £300 a year, with a resi-
dence. , .
All applications must be In writing, and accom-
panied by testimonials as to qualifications and
character, and must be sent in on or before the
26th Instant.
It is to be understood that the engagement may
be terminated on either side after three months’
notice, dated from the beginning of a quarter.
G. MILLER.
Acting Under-Secretary.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydn y, 12th July, 1883.
PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOL FOR BOYS,
BATHURST.
APPLICATIONS will be received at this office,
for the position of HEAD MASTER In the
above School. Salary, £400 a year, with a reel-
deuce*
All applications must be in writing, and accom-
panied by testimonials as to qualifications and
character, and must bo sent In on or before the
26th Instant.
It la to be understood that the engagement may
be terminated on either side after three months’
notice, dated from the beginning of a quarter.
G, MILLER,
Acting Under-Secretary.


Mr. DeCottrct Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Minina- Board of New South
Wales), Minina Expert, Adviser and Minina Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 126 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Departments undertaken. Titles a
special ity.—A pvt.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OP HOREHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief;
a small bottle often cures. Ask for
and get it; spurious imitations are sometimes
offered.
Nowhere perhaps has the dentist’s art obtained
such high excellence as in Sydney. Certainly we
are in no sense behind any other city. Visitors to
Sydney might, to test this, visit the establishment
of Messrs. Adolphe Gabriel and Company, 18 Wyn-
yard Square, two doors from Pfahlerts Hotel
Here the manufacture of every essential in the
Srofession is carried on. At the rear of the surgery
i a compact little factory where all the requisites
for supplying every dental defect in the human
mouth are made. Messrs. Gabriel and Co. (whose
only address is as above) are always pleased to
show their specimens of artiloial teeth to those
interested. There being two firms of the same
name in the Square, patients will oblige by paying
particular attention to the Christian name, Adolphe,
and the number, 18, two doors from Pfahlert’s
Hotel.— Advt.
T>UBLIC NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 482 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
OR, TWO DOORS NORTH OP OLD SHOP
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
r We Khali be glad to have this index posted up by
*• secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general .]
RACING.
gSS m <Q.v 'ft ft
V B C. Steeplechase Meeting July 21.
MS?'" •..;;:;;;:;;.}®ft
SSInovTiirf Chib .... October6.
v y ictoria T Amateur T.C..; ... October 13, 20.
K WterlC. (Amateur). November ».
Murrumbidgee T.C November 21, 23. 23.
Narandera J.C November 29,30.
AQUATICS
Wales Association Regatta ..October 6.
COURSING
Victoria Club July 18. August 22.
South Australian Club •••••■ • • • • • • J uly 18-
Ballarat Club July 26, August 28.
v a 8W Club . . . . July 31. August 10.
Australian Club •. - July 27, August 29.
ATHLETICS,
j Aplltt v. T. M. Malone, 175 yards, £200, V
Rotflny • i • uly
University Athietic Sports.... ........... August 1.
Edwards v. O’Leary, 6 days walk ... .... August 6.
Six Days’ Walking Sweepstakes, g
Wallsend Athletio Club" Meeting 9.
BICYCLING.
Sydney B.C. Sports ■••••• August 4.
FOOTBALL.
Sydoer *. Brisbane Clubs, St Brisbane
Parramatta v. Newcastle, at Newcastle. ...July 21.
SHOOTING.
Melbourne Gun Club Champion Stakes. ...July 10.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MENS.
Brett says he is willing to row Fittes, of
Victoria for a £100 trophy.
Miller’s protege, the “Pocket-Hercules,”
has returned from Melbourne. The Professor was
unable to fix up a match for him.
Even ladies are afflicted with the glove-
flsrht mania. We saw In Hordern’s a lady who had
aseven-and-a-quarter hand wrestling: with asix-
and-a-quarter glove.
Entries for six days’ walk for bona-fida
residents of the colony;—H. Woods, J. Campbell,
J W Taylor, J. Uwen, G. Leves, G. Lepettie, A. T.
J. Beck, and C. Williams.
At the South Grafton Athletic Sports, both
the £20 Handicap and Champion Race were won by
B T. Ellem; Kemp won the standing high Jumo,
and Kay the running high jump.
Sheep-butcher Hagan, of Sydney, won the
£25 a side match against sheep-butcher King, of
Victoria. Hagan dressed his 50th sheep to King s
46th, in 69 minutes 11 seconds. George Agnew was
referee. t
South Australian Coursing Club’s meeting
came to a conclusion on Saturday last. Hubbles
won the All-aged Stakes and July Plate. The
Puppy stakes fell to Phillis; and Strayaway appro-
priated the Bracelet trophy.
Athletic Sports were held at both North
and South Grafton on Saturday last. At the North,
the 150 yards’ Athletic Handicap was won by T.
Noud; and at the South, the Champion Race, 150
yards, fell to Ellem, W. Noud second, A. Noud
third.
It is said that Cook and Roberts, so long
rivals for the Billiard Championship, have been in-
vited to go to Constantinople, of all places in the
world, to play before the Sultan. It is to be hoped
these billiardists are not harem-soarem sort of
fellows, or they may get into trouble.
The Melbourne footballers have had rather
a soft thing in their Sydney matches. On the 10th
they defeated Bast Sydney; on the 13th they won
against the combined Petersham, Waratah, and
Our Boys clubs ; and on Saturday they put
through ” the combined Sydneyites.
The Clarence Tattersall’s R.C. held an im-
promptu meeting on Saturday last. Aimee scored
a win in both the Nursery Handicap and Shorts
Handicap. Shamrock won the Impromptu Handi-
cap. The Novel Handicap was appropriated by
Playboy, and Zenora won the hack race.
On Saturday last the Wallaroo footballers
defeated the University team by six points to four.
Vaughan, while he was at it, played well, but early
in the game he had his ear nearly knocked off, and
the subsequent proceedings Interested him no
more.
Miller and Victor are matched to fence for
£50 on 1st August, the “ Professor” to concede his
opponent 10 points in 21. In this contest the com-
petitors will make “ a draw” at the beginning in-
stead of the end of the affair. By the way, we are
very partial to a fence ourselves —a “stone fence.’*
Melbourne sportsmen are this week ‘‘up
to their necks in it.” On Monday, the £1000 pigeon
match; Wednesday, the commencement of the
Waterloo Cup; to-day, the Melbourne Gun Club’s
annual shooting for the champion Medal; and on
Saturday the Grand National Steeplechase meet-
ing.
The All-Comers’ Regatta promises well.
The date has been fixed for December, and it is
proposed to hold two days’ racing. The All-
Comers’ Race to come off on the first day, and an
outrigger race for all-comers who have not won a
prize or stake for £50 and upwards, a pair-oar
race in light skiffs, and a double-sculling race in
light skiffs, to be pulled on the second.
Walton, the American Plunger, has gone
over to England again, and taken with him a crack
filly called Girofle. He arrived in England in time
to attend the Manchester meeting, where he lost
£11,965 during the week. Mr. Walton evidently
had not sufficient time allowed him to “ make it
right ” with the stables, as he did when he made
the big haul.
At Holyoke, Mass., April 24th, David
Machand, a French athlete, gave an exhibition
with the dumb-bells, and followed with what was
termed the event of the evening, viz., lifting a
quantity of pig-iron weighing 23581b. Machand
stands 5ft. 8Uin„ weighs 3301b., and is only 25 years
of age. He is, without doubt, the strongest man
in the world. It is said he can put up a 2101b,
dumb-bell. Now, Miller.
We understand that Mr. Bull was not
authorised in his statement that the Glebe Rowing
Club intended to follow the lead of the M.R.C., and
secede from the Rowing Association. Whatever
subsequent action may be taken in the matter by
the suburban club, at the time Mr. Bull made the
statement the majority of he Glebe delegates had
voted for the decision arrived at by the Associa-
tion.
Thus an American exchange“ A match
with gloves was fought on June 3 at the Levantine
Theatre, between Ned Lynch, a stone-cutter, well
known as a hard hitter, and Charles Mitchell, the
English boxer. Mitchell wai knocked down twice
in three rounds and Lynch was floored twice, but
came up to the scratch each time. The fight grew
very bitter, and both pugilists lost their tamper,
when the police stepped on the platform and
ordered the men to desist.” If there is any truth
in this par., Lynch must be a real good one, and,
going by the doubtful line of comparisons, ought
to be more than a match for Cleary, whom Mitchell
knocked to a standstill in three rounds.
1 The 8. F. Examiner says:— “The eastern
people still refuse to believe that Slade was a bad
second beat in his set-to with Robinson. Facts are
stronger than beliefs, and if ever the Maori plucks
up courage enough to face a good man other than
Mace, his tutor, the easterners will be sorry that
they took any stock In the big New Zealander. His
fight with Mitchell is set for five months ahead, a
most unprecedented thing.”
At St. Louis, U.S., on April i42, Frank
Black wagered that he could beat the record for
remaining under water. He went into the tank,
and after rem lining under water for some time,
gradually settled down limp in the bottom. He
was fished out, and resuscitated with some diffi-
culty. He won his wager, however, as his time
was 4 min. 11 sec., 9 sec. better than the record.
The proposed trip of an Auckland football
team to N.S.W. has been finally abandoned, owing
to the dates mentioned by our representatives
being unsuitable. Arrangements are being made
for a N.Z. tournament to be held at Wellington, to
which al! the provinces will send a team. After
the whole of the matches have been played, we
learn several of the best men from each will be
taken, who will then come to Sydney. It is
proposed to hold the Wellington tournament about
J uly 28.
By the way, the Victorian “Professor”
“planted” Melbourne “Sweet Williams” in Syd-
ney foley-age. thereby making a glovely nose-gay,
which, as exfoley-ation went on, became redder
and redder till it became the “ scenter of attrac-
tion;” and then artistically spread the whole out
in one such grand intercolonial crimson floor-al
display as to be quite beyond the ken of the mere
forester deputed to boss the show. He has shown
{that he not only understands milling, but he has
also made his mark as a floor-lst.
Since the defeat of the Wagga footballers
at the hands of the Albury representatives, each
of the former players carries his nose in a sling,
and wears sticking plaster round both eyes and
under the ears. One unfortunate, in addition to
the above, has the right knee of his left leg tied up
with four yards of old blanket and half a table
cloth, to keep the cap on. The captain’s face has
been photographed, and may be seen at any of the
studios of the local artists. The picture is not a
bad one, and yet there is a look of melancholy
about it that appeals straight to the heart.
Talking of the bad horsemanship on Rotten
Row, Vanity Fair says:—“There is so much
danger, and such an absence of any means of
cheeking It, that it is proper to point out the
individuals. Lord Curzon is the first I name. His
cob broke into a trot, then into a canter, and
finally Into a gallop. Lord Curzon first threw up
the reins, then he disengaged his feet from the
stirrups, and finally he clasped his horse round the
neck. In this heroic attitude he was run away
with, till a friendly bystander stopped the cob. It
was a deplorable exhibition.” Curs-on horseback.
At Kennington Oval, in June, the Surrey
Eleven, in then match against Hampshire, made
the largest score ever obtained by one county
against another. They commenced their innings
at twenty minutes to five on a Thursday afternoon
and were not all out till half-past six on the Friday
evening, averaging 81 runs an hour. On the first
day 137 runs were scored for four wickets, while
on the second the remaining six wickets added 513
runs, making a total of 650. Previous to this event
the biggest score in England In a good match was
the 613 of the Australians against Sussex at Brigh-
ton on May 19, last year.
Mr. Barnard has not improved his reputa-
tion as a handlcapper by the extraordinary way in
which he has weighted his horses for the Mel-
bourne Cup, and his work shows, by comparison,
what a good effort Mr. Scarr has made in the
handling of his horses for the Metrop. Only two
equines are weighted alike in the two races, Angle-
sey and Faro, at 7st. 101b. and 6st. 101b. respectively.
In the cases of Duenna and Delusion, there is the
glaring difference of 171b., and differences <>f 161b ,
141b., 131b., and downwards are as plentiful as
Serjurles in our law courts. Taken as a whole,
[r. Barnard’s handicap, as an extraordinary pro-
duction, is about on a par with Pe : er Campbell’s
last poem.
The names of the Iroquois Indian lacrosse-
players who recently visited England, which in
English represent white Eagle, Hole in the Sky,
Strong Arm, Big John, Month of June, Red River,
&c., are as follow: 8a8atis Alentonnl (chief), SaSatis
Atirhiton, Wise Ko-8eniio, Dier AieSade, Wise Dler-
diekade, Wise KaonSakakare, Sose ArekSede, 8ak-
saria Sakosennake, Dominique Deknronioncnkae,
Louis Deodeinadeake, Shen LeoeSadese, Sose laon-
haron, A-neas Iaon8adedakore, Da8id Kaiendaron.
What sort of a show would the Electric Telegraph
make of them ? By the way, a lacrosse club has
started in Sydney, and practice matches will com-
mence as soon as a suitable ground can be secured.
For a game requiring speed and wind, without the
slaughtering tendencies of football, we can com-
mend it to our readers.
From accounts in the U.S. papers of the
recent fight, it would appear that in science of
boxing and ring tactics, Mitchell is Sullivan's
superior, and he had decidedly the better of the
out-fighting, while he was lost by Sullivan at in-
fighting. Mitchell is not at all chagrined over the
result, and is eager to again meet the champion:
but, should the meeting ever take place, he will
insist that the contest shall be on the ground, so
that if Sullivan should knock him through the
ropes he will not have to fall from a height of four
feet, and thereby ruin his prospects of winning by
losing his strength, besides running the risk of
being injured. In a contest on an elevated stage,
the heavier and stronger pugilist will always have
a slight advantage in this way. Besides, when a
pugilist, especially a lighter one, is forced to the
ropes, he is compelled to drop his guard, and
allow his opponent to beat him down, because he
has all he can do to look behind to see that he does
not fall from the stage. Mitchell, all agree, made
a good show against his gigantic opponent, but
he was over-matched.
An American paper, in commenting on the
growl between Miller and HIcken, says:—“It was
no doubt very fortunate for Miller that arrange-
ments were not completed, for Hicken was always
a first-class pugilist, and although Miller is nearly
30tt>. heavier than Hicken, he would find that he
had a big elephant to carry before he could defeat
Hicken. By the way, Hicken came to this country
in 1867, and, with Patsy Sheppard, seconded his
brother (Harry) when he fought George Sizler in
the Argylo rooms, Deo. 17, 1867, and he handled the
winner, for Hicken whipped the Fulton market
champion pugilist in 28 rounds, lasting 60 minutes.
Hicken, while in this country, fought Pete Maguire
for $2000 and the lightweight championship of
America. The battle was fought at Perrysville,
Md., on Dec. 23, 1868. The knowing ones thought
it was a good thing for Maguire. Owner Geoghe-
gan and Mike Coburn handled Maguire, while
Barney Aaron and Patsy Meally seconded Hicken.
It was a desperate fight, and Maguire had the best
of the fighting until the fifth round, when Hicken,
by a tremendous blow, broke Maguire’s Jaw, and
won the battle. Hicken also beat Hugh (better
known as ‘ Butt') Riley in an off-hand mill in short
order.” The Yankees seem to forget that it is
fifteen years since Hicken fought in America.
The Clarence River J. C. meeting even-*
tuated on 11th and 12th July, with both weather
and attendance good. The ball opened with the Six-
teenth Mares’ Produce Stakes, which was won by
Argandah, who beat The Jay by a neck, His Wor-
ship third. For the City Handicap Maroney won
a grand race by a half-head from Byron, Cremorne
six lengths away third. Aline and Ferryman ran
a dead heat for the Maiden Plate, Javelin third.
Aime won the run off. Ferryman appropriated
the Grandstand Handicap, Acacia two lengths
away second, Tait third. Arundel romped in the
winner of the Clarence River Derby Stakes, J unlus
second, and Yclept third. The second day’s racing
opened with the Hurdle Race, which was won by
Cnesterfleld, Leopold second, Egmont third. The
Jay made rather an easy win of the C.R.J.C. Sires’
Produce Stakes, a length away from Argandah,
His Worship third. Byron came in the winner ot
the C.R.J.C. Handicap, Maroney three lengths
away second, Cremorne third. The Novel Race
fell an easy win to Richmond, Marltana second,
Wyangarle third ; and the last race, the Flying
Handicap, resulted in an easy victory for Pyalong.
At the settling on Friday evening, £959 were paid
over, the principal winners being D. Nicholson, J.
D. CrKelly, and W. J. Hawthorne,
The Glebe Amateur Regatta people had a
day made to order for their show, which, by the
way, they intend to make an annual affair. The
Government placed the Thetis at the disposal of
the committee for a flagship, and, perhaps fearing
she would be rather too crowded, they thought-
fully moored the Achilles alongside; and, having
placed something strong by name on one side,
they equalised matters by putting something
strong in smell on the other in the shape of a half-
emptied mud-punt, over which the ladies had to
scramble to reach the Thetis. The prizes were
cushions, slippers, banner-screens, and such like,
made by ladles of the local suburb, which wo con-
sider a groat improvement upon the usual plated-
pot affairs—they are so much easier realised upon.
The race for “Maiden double sculls’’ was won by
F. A. and J. B. Qaden. The M.R.O. crew —Martin,
Brett, Williams, and Bull—had merely an exercise
pull for the Senior Fours, as the G.R.C. pulled a
stroke about fast enough for an aquatic funeral.
The Balmain Mechanics' Club crew made an easy
win of the Malden Fours. G. Robertson paddled
in first for the Junior Sculls; Gaden “ put Walker
through” for the Senior Sculls; and the Junior
Fours fell to the M.R.C. crew, stroked by Sammy
Martin.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
The Glebe Amateur Regatta committee in-
clude on their definition of an amateur, “ a pei eon
who has not been engaged in manual labour. Yet
they accepted the entry of the Balmain crew! —
In Victoria, Judge Hlginbotham refused an order
to return to 8. Francks, the patentee of the totali-
se tor, some totalise tors seized for debts of the
company which he form ed... On dit that if Martini-
Henry shows form, Musket will be brought to
Sydney for a season... .Mr. Buchan Thomson, who
in his day had been a successful horse breeder,
livery stable keeper, jockey club secretary, and
volunteer Highlander, shuffled off the mortal coll
last week. A good sort... In a 50 yards’ foot-race
at Bourke, one of the competitors carried five
bricks to make up the extra weight of his oppo-
nent. ..James Lillyman won the Boggabri pigeon
match... The Victorian Footbal 1 Association have
allotted £140 among fifteen charities out of the
proceeds of the senior football matches. Most of
the money goes to the surgical wards of the hos-
pitals, and it is proposed that, as the makers of
artificial limbs and eyes, who have often be-
haved most generously to footballers, have so
far been left out in the cold, a match
be played to raise a testimonial for them —
The ranger of the V.A.T.C. says that there is no
truth in the rumour that the three-quarter-mile
post on the Caulfield course had been shifted .
Nell Matterson defeated B. Parkinson in a light
skiff race at Grafton for £50 aside—Next meeting
of N.8.W. Coursing Club fixed for August 8, 9, and
10. ..Old Mata is again in work at Dunedin, N.Z.,
and said to be looking well.... Adamant, winner of
last Dunedin Cup, is doing well, and will be sub-
jected to a careful preparation for the New Zea-
land Cup, for which he is heavily backed —
B. M‘Ternon is willing to run anyone in the
Cooma, Queanbeyan, or Braldwood districts, 150
yards R. Sevior has sold Barwon to John Tyson
for stud purposes In re C. 8. Agnew, Midland
Jockey Club (Tasmania) ref use to endorse action of
T.C.C University Athletic Club Annual Sports
fixed for 1st August. Open races: 300 Yards
Strangers’, One-mile Bicycle, and 300 Yards Sehool
Llace C. M. Anderson, champion equestrian of
the world, and Juan Figueroa contested in a 50-
mile race in California recently. Bach man was to
have the use of ten horses. Anderson won In Ih.
47m. 30s Pigeon match at Parramatta on 10th,
for pair of ponies. Modlni the winner.
■ • •
During last season 164,363 persons paid for
admission, and not fewer than 193,000 visited the
Oval, London George Fordham has won the
One Thousand Guineas seven tlmes—on Mayonnaise
in 1859, on Nemesis in 1861, on Biberia in 1865, on
Formosa In 1868, on Scottish Queen in 1869, on Tho-
bols in 1881, and on Hauteur this year. ..Mike
Blake, the Irish giant Capt. James C. Daly took
over from Ireland to America, stands 6 ft. 1% in.,
weighs 345 lb., aged 36; chest measurement, 47
in.; biceps, 18 in.; thigh, 39 in. He is ready to
fight any man in the world at catch weight... .Still
another pugilistic giant has arrived in America.
He rejoices in the name of George Schilling, and
stands 6 ft. 6 in. in height, and weighs 310 lb.
Luoien Marc Christol has put him in training, and
intends to match him against Mitchell, Sullivan, or
Mike Blake, Capt. Daly’s giant.. Patrick O’Sullivan,
the champion butcher, died recently at Chicago,
111. Two years ago, at the Union stock yards, N.
Y., he and John Keating reduced the record made
at Buffalo of 4min. 15sec. for killing and dressing
two bullocks, that had stood for years, to 3mlu.
55sec., when the championship was awarded
Fred. Gebhard is on the warpath. He recently
engaged in a set-to, off-hand, in front of Del-
monlco’s, N.Y., with young Sanford, because of
some jocular remarks passed by the latter on Mrs.
Langtry. In the slogging Freddie had decidedly
the worst of it. In tact, Sanford was the slogger
And ho the sloggee... .Thomas Welsh, the English
jockey, attempted to ride 30 miles and beat 56min.
19sec., at the Casino, Boston, on April 37, but failed.
He covered the distance in 59 min, 53Mj sec. Ho rode
seven instead of three feet from the pole .. Francis
M. Ware engaged to ride fifty miles on horses, at
the Casino, Boston, Mass., May 15, while Harry M.
Woodsideand h>s partner, John W. Wilson, rode
forty-six on bicycles. Woodside’s first ten miles
were accomplished in 31 min. 49% sec. The forty-
six miles covered by the bicyclists was made in 3h.
34min. 59sec. Ware had by that time only scored
48 miles. His times were: 30 miles, Ih. 5mm. 3sec.;
40 miles, 3h. lOmln. 45sec.; 48 miles, 3h. 35mln. lOseo,
The horses were, therefore, defeated — A. Nixon,
of Bracondale, Rockmount road, Englar.d, recently
rode 100 miles on a tricyele in 9h. 33min
The latest thing in the gastronomic line is taking
place at Boyerstown, Pa., where Edward Lafferty,
for a wager of $10, attempted the feat of eating
five goose eggs a day for twenty days. On 6th May
he had eaten nis eighth Instalment, and there wore
many interested spectators to see him accomplish
it... Surrey made 650 in the cricket match against
Hampshire. Eng.... The English lighter, Alf. Green-
field, states that he is willing to meet Mitchell with
or without gloves. He waited till Mitchell left
England, however, before he issued his chal-
lenge Fully 1500 bicyclists attended the recent
New York meet The veteran Mr. Whyte Mel-
ville, the father of the novelist, has consented for
the second time to become the captain of the Royal
and Ancient Golf Club at Bt. Andrews, Scotland.
The last occasion when he occupied this position
was no less than sixty years ago—in 1833—
A lady of Liverpool travelled from that city to
Newcastle and back on a tricycle, 100 miles, in 16i
hours Hanlan is expected to visit ’Frisco in
September next....Richard K. Fox, of the Police
Gazette who is the champion backer of the world,
intends to hold a grand international boxing tour-
nament in New York, in September, for a valuable
trophy and large money prizes—As Maud 8.
weighs 995 pounds and £3(5,000 has been offered for
her, horseflesh is worth a trifle more than £30 a
pound The editor of the New York Police
Gazette, R. K. Fox, will soon produce an English
pugilist to contest the world’s championship with
the American, Sullivan. Atkinson, editor of the
London Sporting Times, recommends the new
man, and Fox is prepared to back him from £5000
to £10,000 The six-day (twelve hours daily) bicy-
cle-race at Chicago, 111., closed May 36, Mdlle,
Louise Armaindo winning, with a score of 843
miles; W. J. Morgan second, 839; W. M. Woodside
third, 733 At an eating match in Valley Falls,
near Troy, N.Y., May 34, Richard Sullivan devoured
in fifteen minutes, 35 clams, one pie, seven chocolate
bars weighing two pounds, and one pine-apple —
The official time given for the French Derby was
2min. 34 3-5 seconds!.... One of the sporting events
which is attracting great attention at Tombstone,
U.S., is the proposed battle between Jack Doling's
bulldog and Charley Tribolet’s hairless bear, who
are to fight for a wager of $500. The bear has
killed quite a number of dogs, and it is expected
he will make a meal of Doling's canine John L.
Sullivan is fitting up a first-class sporting house
on Washington-street, near Kneeland, Boston,
Mass. When ready for the opening it will, it is
stated, have cost him £3000 At Cincinnati, Ohio,
on April 13, Win. M. Woodside, champion of Ire-
land, and John S. Prince, champion of America,
rode 10 miles on bicycles for a purse. Prince won
easily, completing the distance in 37min. 31J4scc
The new English cutter Marjorie participated in
the opening cruise of the Northern Yacht Club,
Eng., May 24, and reached the home anchorage
four minutes ahead of the other boats, although
she made a late start.
A Demoninationai drop—Irish whisky.
A Sydney firm advertises in the Herald
for “a male salesman.”
That most creditable publication, the
Colonial Printers’ Art Journal, has ceased to
appear. It Is to be phoenlxed as The Industrial
News.
At the farewell concert of Signor Giorza,
which took place Saturday afternoon, the 14th of
July, a new waltz of h s composition was played
by the orchestra. This piece, a very brilliant one,
bears the title of “Adieu,” and it is dedicated by
the author to his friends, “Signori Pisoni Brothers.’
Copies were freely distributed to the audience.
Some philanthropist has said that a man
who truly loves a horse cannot be wicked. He
must be in the wrong, for N.S.W. gaols are full of
men who loved other people’s horses, not wisely,
but too well.
An hour or two before the execution of
Lantz, the French parricide, the director of the
Versailles prison asked him what ho would like to
oat for his last repast. “Some apricots,” said
Lantz. “ But wo cannot got apricots in less than
four or five months.” “ I will wait," was the calm
reply.
The old hoax about the discovery of the
Ark at Ararat is still going the round of the
country papers. One of these days somebody will
announce that he has discovered the identical
mud that Adam was made of, and the mild-eyed
editors of these rusty rags will believe it. The
proof will be in their own heads.
THE DRUNKARD'S DOOM.
When the sun was slowly setting, slowly setting,
round and red.
And the darkness creeping onward told the day
was nearly dead,
In a Kent-stroet hovel lay a man whoso race was
nearly run.
And whose day of life was setting slowly with
the setting sun.
Ah, that pale face worn and wretched! ah those
lurid sunken eyes!
Soon to lose that light, and never more behold
the fading skies:
Ah, the bitter fev’risb clutching for the cooling
draught from hands
Scorned in days of vanished riot I Patient there
the true soul stands—
Patient all the night through; patient, waiting,
waiting for the end,
Waiting until day dawns, waiting, as the length’n-
ing shadows tend
Long and black across the pavement—Waiting,
Hear this, Christian men I
Waiting till he’s lit to Join her in the same old
drunk again.
There lived up in N.Q., two clever “ hotel”-
keepers, belonging to that class of colonists which
has lately merged into the order of C.M.G. Tony
Wallfruit and Harry Farland they were called,
and their admirers when speaking of them always
reverently used both Christian and surname; Just
as we in Sydney call our great men Jack Robert-
son, Larry Foley, and so on. Well, one night a
sailor Just ashore, who was having a high old time
at Tony Wallfruit’s, gave th tgentlr man £5 to take
care of, in case of emergency. In the morning he
rose from his bed in the back yard, and, seeing
Tony, asked for his £5. In a tone of compassion,
the virtuous Mr. Wallfruit denied that the “ poor
fellow” gave him any money, and read him a
moral lecture on the folly of drinking. But the
sailor, not satisfied, took the case to court, and it
was Just about to be decided in his favour, and to
the serious detriment of Tony Walfruit’s character
for integrity, when Harry Farland stepped for-
ward, and said, with a patronising smile, “ My
good man, you were too far gone last night to
remember. It is true you gave a man £5 to keep
for you, but it was not Mr. Wallfrint. I am the
person, and will at once return it now that you are
sober." There was a murmur of applause lust
starting to ripple round the court at these noble
words, when the sober sailor calmly replied: “ Yes,
Mr. Farland, I know you are an honest man, and
wlB return me my money; but I gave Mr. Wall-
fruit £5 to mind, also, and that is the money I am
trying to got now.” He got it, too, and also the
£5 which honest Harry Farland had Just admitted
he owed him; to the disgust of the embryo
C.M.G.’s.


F
URNITURE SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring street*, Sydney.
H
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS, and
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
L~ IBRARY FURNITURE. CENTRE and SIDE
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb, Furniture Importers, Spring and
O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &o.,
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
NOVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-streot.
A FTERNOON TEA TABLES.elegant and inex-
A pensive. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O ’ Conn ell-street.
ARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c. _
LLLIARD TABLES, full size, with appurten-
ances ; also smaller Convertible Tables, 7 and
8 f eeh-may be used as dining tables. Now on view.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, Importers, Spring
and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at lowest prices. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Importers,
O’Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
EIGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.-The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY,
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
0“ HEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 20sj
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
eases, fram 35s; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands. from 10s6d; Tables, from7s8d: Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 25s; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s fid. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O'Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
85s
BRADLEY,:]
NEWTON,
and LAMB,
SYDNEY.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
URN ITURE.—The Largest Stock in the
Colony. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell-street.
Drawing-room cabinets—Early English,
Anglo-Japanese, and Chippendale designs.
Just opened. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
streets.
Dining-room furniture. - Magnificent
Suites in Walnut, Oak, and Mahogany. Side-
boards, Dinner Waggons, &c., to match. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O’Connell streets.
Framework for drawing and dining
ROOM FURNITURE, Handsome and Massive,
in Oak, Walnut and Mahogany. The VERY BEST
REAL MOROCCO SKINS, and Materials for up-
holstery. Open to inspection. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON,jaudJAMB.
BEDSTEADS, nickel-piated and black and brass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell-street.
w
ASHSTANDS, with marble, 25seach. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS and Verandah Chairs.—Brad-
ley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment just opened; many quite new,
designs.
Occasional chairs in very great
Variety, Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c., Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c., Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
ICE CHESTS, ail sizes, very superior make. Ex-
amine before purchasing. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
IRON SAFES, various sizes. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
8“ TE1NWAY NEW YORlTpiANOS, the FINEST
in the world. A SHIPMENT just landed.
DQ GUINEA PIANO, WARRANTED sound
and durable, in solid walnut case; specially
adapted for beginners or schools.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
O/AGUINEA PIANO, brilliant toned, full com-
OU pass, all the latest improvements, in hand-
some walnut case; WARRANTED SOUND and
DURABLE ; BEST VALUE in the trade.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
IPP’S CELEBRATED PIANOS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB
have received
another LARGE SHIPMENT
of
R. LIPP and SONS’ celebrated PIANOFORTES
direct from the Makers, comprising TALL
GRANDS, LITTLE UPRIGHT GRANDS, SA-
LOON GRANDS, VERY HANDSOME and of the
HIGHEST CLASS FINISH,
in
WALNUT and BLACK GOLD.
WE HAVE NO AY THE LARGEST STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA OF
LIPP’S PIANOS
TO SELECT FROM.
WE INVITE INSPECTION.
FOR PRIVATE SALE AT EXTREMELY LOW
PRICES.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Pianoforte Importers,
O'Conooil and Spring etreeta.
SOCIAL.
There are rumourwaf a ballatGoverameut
House, Sydney. We believe, however, that the
only foundation for the report is that it is so long
since the last.
. * * *
On Friday, the second annual ball of the
Balmain Mowing Club drew a very large number
to the Town Hall vestibule, and Mr. W.K. Ains-
worth scored another triumph. It was altogether
nice; too nice to be all done in prose, so we 11
Write a rhyme like Sladen's, telling of those
maidens,
Just a little jingle-
Lightly draw our lyric bow
All about that Balmain show;
« hocks of roses, necks of snow.
All that sort of thing, you know:
Pretty Huntress, with her beau.
Patience—love her ever so—
How wo wish, oh, don’t wc, though ?
Wo again were single!
We would tell of fair ones, radiant and rare ones,
Dancing round serenely,
Laughing eyes of tender blue,
Black ones, fix you through and through,
Grecian Girl—can dance a few,
Lizzie Stofel, Daisies, too.
Satin slippers, small: Oh! you
Scarce knew where to rest your view
In that bevy queenly.
Maritana, Morning, Spring; Sailors, sweet as any-
thing,
Pass before us glancing:
Bright America is there.
Nancy, Gipsy, pretty fair.
Brides a d beauties, young and fair,
Dimpled arms and tumbled hair,
Chatty, cheery, chic, and chere,
All mix in a medley, where
Balmain belles are dancing.
Programmes, conceived by Turner, were the
daintiest designs possible. On one side, the B.R.C.
Hag in black and gold, with green cornstalks ram-
pant; on the other, a delicious little view of the
boat-house, as gay as green printer's ink could
make it; and, on the other side, nine waltzes out
of twenty-live dances, including ail the popular
pieces. About nine o’clock. De Groen’s band, who
played capitally, led otf with the lancers, a most
unusual dance to start with. There was only one
quadrille on the card. From that till the stroke of
four the fun went on. There was not on i really
novel fancy dress in the room; but there wore
some pretty new ones built on old designs. By way
of instance, a lady couldn’t dross as America ami
imagine she was dazzling the world with an abso-
lutely now idea. But the Balmain America was,
nevertheless, one of the prettiest affairs yet
seen ; being all satin, it had a bright rich
appearance, the colours were well chosen, and
altogether Miss Stewart took first place in the
fancy dress contest. We might say, first place
also apart from dross. Only the other girls might
get angry. A companion dress, containing as
many colours as a lump of rainbow, was the Marl-
tana of Miss Gay, who looked more gay than ever,
Miss Prescott’s Patience wasn’t new, but nice; and
Miss Norah Ooombe’s Pinafore wasn’t new. but nice,
and Norah danced sweetly; and, as Lizzie Stofel,
Miss Carrie Morrau wasn’t new, but still nice.
Miss Booth, whom we call Daisies, for want of
more authentic information, wore a new fancy
costume; white satin bodice, top rounded off with
bright green, and bright green tarlatan skirt
studded with white daisies; girdle of golden
leaves, white daisy wreath, and white satin shoes
edged with green-a very pretty display. Miss
Schofield was Bettina ; Miss Leslie, in white
satin dotted with stare, half sleeves, cerulean
cap and long tllray veil, was Morning, and lovely.
One lady was in pale blue, with gold embellish-
ments, trimming of cornstalks, and necklace of
corn. It’s a good idea to wear corns on the neck
instead of the toes. Balmain produced several
superb dancers. Miss Shepherd wore an ancient
Greek costume, all white, in loose flowing dra-
peries edged with golden scroll-work-a dress
which hid the figure, but nothing could hide
her splendid dancing. Miss Bessie Brown
wore a neat make-up of black velvet and
blue satin as a Huntress, and in looks
and dancing was as dainty as Diana her-
self. Three sailor lassies were all attractive—
two of Pinafore, and one of Nancy Leo type. Miss
Williams wore a pretty blue; Mrs. Vinson was
America; Miss Thornton’s pretty tricolour dress: a
ruby velvet Cavalier’s garb; a couple of naval
officers, and a “nigger,” were among the chief
fancies. Then there was a Don Jaunarey—no,
hold on! .Taneruy—oh we’re getting confused—Don,
the Brazilian fellow that sparked Emilic Melville,
wo mean. Many evening dresses were constructed
with taste: notably a garnet velvet skirt with
panior bodice of cream satin; a cardinal satin, and
a white satin with old gold lace, were pretty spec-
tacles: (wo graceful pinks with roses from Surry
Hills; a cardinal and cream satin harmony with
neck ruff from Balmain; a deep cream plush and
nun’s-vciling with geraniums from Redfern; a
black satin and a white satin from Woolloomooioo;
n white satin on a skilful dancer from Glebe Point,
were all attractive. Miss Meeks wore a white
satin pointed corsage, neck and sleeves covered
with (lowered lace, lace skirt and golden trim-
mings; Miss Poaree, a nice black velvet and blue
satin; Miss Evans, a charming cream satin. Mias
Turner’s dress was pink llama skirt, made in
an extremely billowy manner, and the dark vel-
vet body was surmounted by an immense ruff,
oat ot which her fair young face sprang
like a flower. The entire design had all
the gracefulness of the old courtly days; but
that stately ruff would be quite ruined in less than
half an hour’s modern courting. Miss Wallace was
a very pretty brunette in blue satin bodice, with
ceru 'skirt and collarette: and Miss Lily Ford, a
young debutante from Melbourne, was as pretty
as her name, in salmon pink satin, trimmed with
real ferns. Miss Phillips was so pretty in blue and
silver stars, that she looked as it she had tumbled
through the sky, and brought some of it with her
for a dress-just the kind of idea that would suit
an artistic girl. And her sister, in pure white, en-
hanced by real ferns, wore a whit© bouquet in her
hair, and was the belle. Finally, Mr. W. A. Hutch-
inson, M.P.. and Mr. Pritchard, Mayor of Leich-
hardt. Dr. Evaus, Mr. Frazer, captain of the club,
and other well-known gentlemen were there.
* * *
An afternoon concert does not afford the
same chance for a brilliant display of dresses as
does one given at night. Nevertheless, there were
a few nice dresses In the Protestant Hall last
Saturday afternoon. Signora Giorza wore a deep
heliotrope silk, with bonnet and plumes to match.
Miss Wilton, in a pale, greenish blue silk, elabor-
ately trimmed with lace, looked pretty. A dark
brown silk skirl, with overskirt of cream and
brown brocaded silk, was very handsome. Another
brown was topped with a pale cream hroche satin,
with brown hat and oream feathers. Two sisters
in the deepest shade ot green cashmere, heavily
trimmed with velvet a shade lighter In colour,
large green Rembrandt hats, with rich plumes to
match, made a stylish pair. Another new colour,
which is between a light brown and grey, a kind
of fawn in fact, was artistically blended with deep
crimson, and worn by a very young lady; the hat
was of the same colour in plush, and the lining of
crimson satin. A tall lady wore a rich corded
black silk with bugle trimmings, and the daintiest
of black velvet bonnets, which was almost covered
with primroses. Very few bright colour’s were to
be seen, but a great number of ladies wore long
light gloves, and carried bouquets of dowers,
which helped to brighten the sad colours of their
robes.
ft*
Dubbo’s second Winter Pariy came off
last Thursday. Company numerous and select,
and the whole affair pleasant. As the various
tasteful dresses have mostly been noted before,
there is no need to repeat in detail. But we want
to say there was a full peal of belles present, and
there wasn’t one but would have been delighted
for someone to come and ring her.
* * *
A wedding of interest at St. Saviour’s pro-
cathedral, Gkmlburn, was that of Mr. Edward
Mort, third son of the late Thomas sutcllffe Mort,
to Miss Emily Elizabeth Phillips, resident with her
widowed mother at Irriwilbin, near Goulburn.
Great preparations were made, the centre seats
removed, and three large archways of verdure and
floral beauty thrown across the path, which was
all carpeted; camellias were lavished everywhere,
and bouquets everyotherwhere. Several hundreds
of people witnessed the Bishop perform the cere-
mony, which conferred on Miss Phillips the
honoured name of Mort. Two little sailor-clad
pages bore the train of the bride, who was attended
by eight maids, and was given away by her eldest
brother.
• • ■
A great gathering assembled at Christ
Church, Brunswick (Victoria), to see the
marriage of Dr. Charles Kyan, of “Plevna”
celebrity, to Miss Alice, second daughter of
the Hon. T. Sumner, of Stony Park, Brunswick.
Dr. Bromby ofliciated, and the bride wore a rich
ivory satin and real lace, and was cheered by six
maids, sisters of herself and husband. Breakfast
at Stony Park. Tt was a bitterly cold day. Happy
pair now in Sydney.
Last Wednesday, the 11th inst., Mrs. KorPT
gave one of her nice parties at Here ford-street.
Glebe Point. A nice dress on a pretty girl was a
crushed strawberry satin and broeW. made with
short jacket and bunched skirt.. Her taller sister
wore light blue satin made In a similar style. A
very handsome dress was pale blue satin, richly
trimmed with crystal embroidery, with fringe to
match. This dress was very effective, as. at every
movement of t he wearer, the trimming glistened
like thousands of dew drops. One of the Misses
Korff word an uncommon dress composed of soft
China silk of mixed colours, old gold and olive
green predominating; a wide sash of the latter
colour was bunched at the back. Dancing was
kept up till throe in the morning.
• • •
Preparations are pushed on apace for the
Citizens’ Complimentary Hall to the Mayor and
Mrs. Harris, which will take place in the Exhibi-
tion early in August. A largo committee is formed
and Mr. L. E. Harcus has been appointed Secre-
tary. Tickets will be 35s. for gentlemen, and 15s.
for ladies.
m w m
A novelty in Melbourne on the 9th July
was a juvenile fancy ball, given by the children of
the Hon. George Coppin, M.P., on which occasion
many of the citizens’ children appeared in the
prettiest of costumes. The variety was remark-
able; and the list being far too long to quote, we
simply say it included almost every character one
can readily think of, and several that one couldn’t.
* * *
Next Thursday, the directors of Hudson
Brothers’ Company ceremoniously open the Union
Rolling Stock and Engineering Works, at Clyde,
and give a grand entertainment. The programme
of arrangements is: Special train to Clyde at 11.30
a.m., luncheon, tour round the works to view
machinery in motion, banquet at two, and dancing
in the evening till twelve. The electric light will
illuminate a ball-room 175 feet long by 00 feet
wide. A very large number of invitations have
been issued.
* * *
The Queen’s Birthday ball was a great
success; over 500 present. So we read of Brisbane.
In Sydney, we only had a levee, which is a cheaper
form of entertainment.
* * *
The following Sydney ladies have lately
been presented to Her Majesty Queen Victoria:
The Misses Labertouche, and the Misses Manning-
daughters of Sir William.
* * *
On the Uth inst., at the Victoria Theatre,
Parramatta, amateurs repeated “ Our Boys,” and
added “ Uncle’s Will,” to benefit the P. Alfred C.
Club, and the ele\er acting quite deserved the
crowded house it gained. Afterwards, the per-
formers were entertained at a complimentary
party, when nearly 100 friends gathered in the
Masonic Hall opposite. Cumberland Band (which,
it will be remembered, gained second prize in the
open competition for all the colony a while ago)
played the sixteen dances splendidly, and the semi-
nal! was quite delectable till the morning train
started back about five o’clock. The dresses of
“our girls” of “ Our Boys” were: —Aunt Clarissa,
black satin broche and passementerie, scarlet
wreath, and bouquet; Mary Melrose, brown velvet
brochti panier bodice and cashmere skirt; and
Belinda, dark green velvet jacket and ottoman
cloth and velvet skirt: Violet did not stop. Among
the numerous other guests were two Moore Park
ladies, and a Canterbury visitor, prettily dressed;
Miss Edgchill, in cream and blue satin and pearls;
Mrs. Benson in ruby, Mrs. Stephenson in black
silk brootnS, Miss Ashley in black striped silk gre-
nadine, Miss Smith in cream and cardinal, and Miss
Little in black brochf and cashmere trimmed with
jet. The matter of light sustenance was not for-
gotten by tha amiable committee. There’s an infi-
nite field for usefulness open to dancing masters
at Parramatta.
« ■ •
A good dance was given in the Temperance
Hall, Klama, by Mrs. 8. Marks, and the genial host
of Terragong, the accessories being nice music,
supper, and decorations. The two fair daughters
of thefhouse—one in blue, one in cream and car-
dinal satin—never looked better. Throe young
ladies from the B.S. and A. Bank, two handsome
daughters of the Mayor, and a dark young lady
from Dunmore, all looked charming. Honour of
best dancer was thought to lie between a maiden
in blue India muslin, and a daraosel in blue satin
and white llama; while the fair ones noted it was
hard to pick between a banker, a Sydney and a
Dunmore beau, in the matter of skilful stepping.
The pleasant entertainment closed at nearly 3
o’clock.
• • •
There was a large attendance at the School
of Arts, Orange, on the 10th July, to celebrate Miss
Kite’s 21st birthday, at the invitation of her
mother, Mrs. Botton, of Kangaroobie. Miss Kite
wore a very handsome costume of pale pink satin
and maroon velvet; her sister. Miss Ijaura, being
charming in cream skirt, with cardinal plush
bodice and panier. Misses Torpy graced cream,
and pink roses; Miss Lakeman, black velvet and
old gold; Mrs. Treweeke, black lace and satin, with
crushed strawberry trimmings; Mrs. Morrow, Mrs.
Waddell, and Miss Morrison were severally dressed
with beautiful taste; Miss Neald was noticed for
her genial face and exquisite dancing; and Miss
Heatncote, in simple white tarlatan and cerise
sash, was generally voted the belle. The worthy
P.M.’s polka was the sensation of the evening.
Dancing till dawn, to the Orange band. The
Orange girls will always recollect Miss Kite’s
birthday, and the pleasure it gave them. The gen-
tlemen will recollect the pleasure only.
* » m *
Mr. and Mrs. Matthews, of Wyong, Smith-
field, gave an enjoyable party to about 100 guests
recently. A Smithfleld matron in elegant pale
blue and cardinal, the daughter of the house in
black and cream lace, two sisters from Petersham,
and the trio from Woodlands, were noticeably
attractive. Parramatta and Sydney guests also
shone, and all went smoothly —Park Villa, Yass,
was the seat of a nice party on the 6th July.
Younger daughter from Douro took the laurels.
Dancing very satisfactory —A grand wedding at
Melbourne was that of Miss Kate Solomon, from
Adelaide, to Mr. Simon G. Alexander, of Richmond
(Vic.) Ten bridesmaids, splendid display of dresses,
about 200 at breakfast, and 400 to ball in the even-
ing: several Sydney ladies giving Victoria a treat.
. .. For artistic beauty, the programmes of the Owl
Club and the Balmain Rowing Club balls are the
best we have seen produced in Sydney. Both de-
signed by Turner and printed by Sands—On Mr.
.1. P. Buggy, headmaster of a public school in the
Albury district, being promoted to Corowa, he was
entertained at a dinner in the Albury Hotel and
presentisod. In spite of his name, Mr. Buggy is a
capital fellow, sends sport along, and has ability in
several ways. We hope he’ll run smoothly through
life... They do say that a high railway official
is going to pluck a Rose from the Murrum-
burrah garden of girls. Probably on the
strength of ids late handsome increase.
Oddfellows at Toowoomba (Q.) had a successful ball
on the 28th June Last Friday, the Cobar bache-
lors held a large ball It looks like a return of
the days of chivalry to see athletes competing for
prizes worked by ladies’ dainty bands. Go it,
Glebe girls The friends of Mr. Hagon, of this
city, propose to give a complimentary pall to him
next month Little rows at Richmond. The rate-
payers have the impudence to grumble because
the aldermen “did the grand” to the football
teem from H.M.S. Diamond a while ago, with their
money—The Miss Herbert, of Orleton, Shrop-
shire, who has been won by the heir of Nepean
Towers, is cousin to Lord Loftus—The Free-
masons of Wilcanuia gave their first ball at Ken-
nedy’s Assembly Hall in high style; nearly 100
present, and the lovely ladies managed the cater-
ing. Result, creditable gift of I'.'JO to the local
hospital—On 21st June, at Bowral, Mr. Whatman
married Miss Moore, who lived in Bong Bong-
street. No, we won't pun—let some mean man do
it — Benedicts of Taree going to give aball....
Rumoured that a rising auctioneer from the
Eastern suburbs will take for better a North Shore
belle—A Tasmanian lady of some 50 summers,
wife of a solicitor, decided to be in the fashion,
and so became delicately involved with a young
groom. These things are very sad. They show
shocking bad taste on the part of grooms —
Australian Club about to be formed at Frisco
A phi I harmonic society being formed in Wilcannia.
— The engagement of a popular and wealthy
young squatter to the niece of a much respected
Sydney knight was announced lately. It is now
oft’. Ho only had a short attack of hay fever
The Private Bachelors’ Assembly starts Its second
series on Friday, 10th August, at Nithsdale Rooms.
The new constitution is under a committee of
eight, and Mr. John Harris, Mayor, has consented
to be President. Sixty members comprise the
assembly, and no tickets will be purchasable for
visitors The London Opera Bouffe Company
gave a Sunday night concert in Taraworth, which
enriched the hospital by £22, and the manager inti-
mates he will give such performances in all towns..
On the 9th, a newly-formed orchestral society gave
its first concert at Brisbane, with success The
Londoners’ Association of N.S.W. is increasing,
having now over 100 members. It is limited to
natives of the “ big smoke.” A number of Auck-
land residents have inaugurated an annual reunion
and dinner, to be held on the anniversary of the
fall of Sebastopol, September 9th... Last Saturday,
the revivified Sydney Chess Club met in Com-
pagnoni’s Rooms, to initiate the regular practice
meetings. Mr. R. Smith gives three px-izos, to be
donated on 1st November. Rooms open 4 to II daily.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Woollahra Private Assembly (Nithsdale) — July 20
Sydney Private Assembly (Nithsdale). July 37
University Athletic Club Sports Aug. 1
Sydney Bicycle Club Sports Aug. 4
Bachelors’ Private Assembly Aug. 10
Windsor Masonic Ball. Aug. 33
Iii the Herald of Health, of Maj, there
is a horrible account of the new and disgusting
fashion among Paris ladies of drinking hot blood
in the morning, and having warm blood baths.
A gentleman in St. Kilda has discovered
how to keep beggars away from his premises. He
manages it with a treadmill. All tramps, male and
female, can obtain half-an-crown an hour for turn-
ing it. The first day the falling off in knocks was
fifty per cent. Since then the attendance has
gradually decreased until it now can only be repre-
sented by a surd.
In the Press, the ’‘Mining Leaseholders’
Guide,” 120 pp. 8vo. A handy book of the Laws
and Regulations relating to Gold and Mineral
Leases, Mineral License Holdings, Mining upon
Reserves, &c. Also, Mineral Conditional Pur-
chases; How to distinguish, test, and assay mine-
rals, Ac. Ry T. F. De Courcy Browne, author of
"The Miners’ Handy Book.” Orders received by
J. J, Moore and Co., bol George-strect.*


£20,000
To be distributed on the
MELBOURNE CUP, 1883,
To bo run on November 6th.
t3T* ALL PRIZES !! NO BLANKS !!!
“THE MELBOURNE TURF CLUB”
Desire to inform the Sporting Public that they
have made arrangements for holding a Mammoth
Sweep on the forthcoming Melbourne Cup, whieli
for Novelty, Fidelity, and Advantage Inis no equal
in Australia.
Capital £30,000 in 30,000 Shakes of £1 Each.
The remaining £5000 will bo employed by the
Club in making a book on the Cup and other races,
that is, laying and taking the odds by a new system,
the success of which has been practically proved.
It is estimated that the prollts accruing from this
source will range from £5000 to £15,000, the whole
of which, both capital and profits, will be equally
divided amongst subscribers who were unsuccess-
ful in drawing either a horse or a prize In the
Mammoth Sweep. Hack Subscriber will be sure of
obtaining a Pr.ze, be it large or small. The Pro-
moters of the M. T. C. are well-known sporting
gentlemen, and guarantee the above to be a bona-
fide affair in every particular. Ton per cent, com-
mission deducted from all winnings. Drawing to
take place on October 38th. Results posted imme-
diately after. Subscribers who wish to be; present,
will please notify us in time. Add 3d. for reply and
result. Address—
THOMAS BENTLEY, Sccty.
M. T. C., Melbourne.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED by ACT OF PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £137,500
Directors i
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George 8. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gldley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. I Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: I Secretary:
F. A. A. Wilson. I Hector Allen.
Branches:
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralamboue,
Gosford, Nyngan, and Bourke.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
London Office: 158 Leadenhall-street
Director: Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent: G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted dally.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wool
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
TRY THE
Victim Furniture Pclisl!
ONCE TRIED WILL BE USED ALWAYS.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
BILLIARDS.—SYDNEY COFFEE TAVERN,
Next door to Tattersali's, Pitt-strect.
This favourite Saloon being thoroughly reno-
vated, is NOW OPEN. All votaries of Green Cloth
should pay a visit.
W. MOORE, Manager.
o
oy
m
THE “GREAT BONANZA” CLUB CONSUL-
TATION
on the
MELBOURNE CUP, 1883,
To be run about the end of October.
Capital £7500. Divided into 150,000 Shares at Is
each. 500 Priz es G u aranteod.
To be distributed as follows
First Horse .. .. £1000
Second Horse .. 500
Third Horse.. .. 350
Starters divide .. 500
Non-starters divide 350
10 Prizes of £100, £1000
20 Prizes of £50, £1000
40 Prizes of £25, £1000
100 Prizes of £10, £1000
200 Prizes of £5, £1000
31 Tickets for £1. Not less than 6 Tickets sent to
any single address. Send P.O. Order or Bank
Notes. If coin be enclosed, please register letter.
If Stamps are sent, add exchange at tne rate Is in
the £1. Exchange should also be added to cheques.
Please enclose 3d extra for Membership Fee. No
charge for reply or result. Drawing will positively
take place on or before the 35th October, and will
be conducted before a Committee of Shareholders.
Tickets promptly sent by return post, and results
posted immediately after diawlng. Prospectuses
forwarded. Enclose an addressed envelope un-
stamped.
Address: “Bonanza,” care of J. Thomas, 20
Swanston-street, Melbourne.
ON THE
ZE3riclr±leld. Hill.
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS in LACE CURTAINS.
LACE CURTAINS, lOO PRICES.
Ladies residing in the country can have forwarded to the nearest Railway Station, Free of Charge, a Set of Lace
Curtains. If you like the pattern which is represented in this engraving, cut it out, and we will forward exactly
the same pattern. See future advertisements for other patterns.
lip” These Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers
fr *
< {
¥l«w
fJtfL
’ML
Ln
3^-Jw-
r
-Hf
5*1?
»
•V
f»£S
LACE Cl'RTAlMS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Irish Linen Table Dart asks, to match the Curtains. Table Napkins. Linen Diapers. Embroidered Table Covers.
Mosquito Nets. Striped and Plain Window Union. Examine carefully the engraving of our
“LACE CURTAINS.”
ONE ONLY ADDRESS;—
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS,
1 lace curtains| 668 BRICKFIELD HILL, (lace CURTAIN*I
Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
Observations.
(BY WONGA WONGA.)
The dress circle of the Sydney Opera House has,
since the production of “Manteaux Noirs,” pre-
sented a considerably more animated appearance
than for some time previous. Among the more no-
ticeable of many tasteful toilettes seen there during
tho evenings of the past week, were:—A costume
of term cotta colour, the bodice of plush, made
high to the throat and fastened there with a cluster
of white roses; skirt of brochi). This was worn by
a young Jady of brunette complexion, to whom it
was very becoming. A white satin dress was
made with low bodice and short puffed sleeves.
Cream satin, with cardinal flowers and sash, was
very pretty, and the particular shade of blue of a
broohe satin dress was most effective under the
gas light. This latter was trimmed with deep
white lace of the Edelweiss pattern, the bodice
pointed, cut with open square front. A wreath of
ivy and hawthorn round the neck and front.
Several dresses, each of one of various shades of
pink, from crushed strawberry to the palest, were
very becoming. One lady displayed a very won-
derful fan, which must have almost served the
purpose of a punkah, so vast were its dimensions.
This extraordinary implement was black, and was
adorned with some still more remarkable roses,
each about as large as a cheese-plate, raised upon
its surface.
Many handsome' wraps are being worn this
season. Most are bordered with fur; some are of
Paisley shawl pattern, and like tho dolman in shape.
A good many ladies are wearing tho hair cut short.
Tins style of coiffure has, at all events, the ad-
vantage of taking very little time in its arrange-
ment.
It seems a pity that, when in their determination
to be beautiful and fair to see, some maidens bor-
row (or purchase) from art the charms which
nature has denied, they do not, in displaying
them, use a little more skill and less liberality.
Several fair ones, evidently resolved that their
artificial roses shall not bloom unseen, have very
conspicuously borne thpso blushing honours thick
upon them on the “ Block ” of late.
On the coldest day we have had this winter, a
young lady (?), endowed, one would imagine, with
more jewels than brains, and who would have
served as a striking illustration of “ilfaut souffrlr
pour ctre belle,” also of ‘rich and rare were the gems
she wore,” appeared in Pitt-street with one hand
and arm bare, except for a multitude of rings and
bracelets set with diamonds (they might have been
paste), with which the unfortunate limb, of course
blue and mottled with cold, was laden. If the
latter could have spoken, no doubt it would have
grumbled at the injustice of fate in choosing it
instead of its fellow for the display of jewellery
in such unfavourable weather.
Combinations of checked with plain materials are
much in favour for walking dresses. The plaids
are occasionally so large in pattern as to look
grotesque and provoke “ odious comparisons.” A
very pretty costume of dark brown velvet jacket
with coat tails, skirt of fawn-coloured cashmere,
was mucli admired on the “ Block ” one day this
week. One of green satin and velvet, of a "pecu-
liarly becoming shade, was also noticed. Ruby-
coloured cashmere, broche velvet of similar hue,
made a pleasing combination. Toque to match was
worn with this. A very charming face appeared
under a large hat of light brown felt, adorned with
long drooping feather of shaded brown. Costumes
of black, of all sorts of materials and of combina-
tions of materials, are very numerous. The rubles,
browns, greens, and blues are a pleasant relief—
for black, though so useful, is, like many other
useful things, apt to become monotonous if one
has too much of it.
It is a curious fact, that with all their professions
of admiration for sweet simplicity in dress, their
declarations that beauty when unadorned is
adorned the most, the superior sex invariably
single out stylish-looking and well-dressed girls
for their attention, while the poor dowdies are
left, like so many female Jack Horners, to eat
humble pie In the corners. They talk, do these
lords of creation, in the strain of “ Oh, my Nora’s
gown for me, leaving ev’ry beauty free,” &c.; but,
all the same, their actions show that they prefer
Lesbia’s gown of gold after all.
Among the various disparaging comments which
many new chums, with admirable tact, and In
such graceful taste, are fond of making on the
colonies and their productions, institutions, man-
ners, and customs, as compared with the “ tight
little island” and all therewith connected, “our
girls,” of course, do not escape their share of ad-
verse criticism.
It is as well, perhaps, to see ourselves as others
see us, but to learn that they lack refinement, that
they are boisterous and not retiring enough in
manner, and are altogether too independent—also
that they walk badly and have an ungraceful
carriage—would, I should think, be intelligence of
a nature more surprising than pleasant to colonial
belles.
The thorns of conventionality and formality
which surround the English roses and rosebuds,
would appear, in the eyes of their admirers, to
lend an additional charm to the beauty of those
fair blossoms, while we, in that ignorance which
was bliss, fondly imagined that the absence of
thorns was a circumstance in favour of our
“ native roses.”
With inconsistency rare in the superior sex (that
quality, we have always understood, being almost
entirely confined to our own) these ungallant
critics are prone to settling down in these objec-
tionable colonies, taking to themselves wives from
among their objectionable daughters, and thereby
incur the risk of having their own daughters
trained in the ways they should not go by objec-
tionable “Ma’s."
POLITICAL POINTS.
The Queen’s well-meant but ignorant
ukase against eating lamb has been mercilessly
satirized by such of the home papers as rise
superior to tho flunkyisra of the Times and sich.
Thus one journal: “Whoever proposed the silly
notion that evil Land-laws, bad weather for years,
and improvident landlords could all be put right
by not using mint sauce for dinner with its usual
concomitants, simply offered to cure a thunder-
storm with sticking-plaster.”
Here’s a startling calculation. The circu-
lation of Reynolds’ Newspaper, a Loudon penny
weekly, is 650,000. The population of Great Britain
is, in round numbers, 30,000,000. Deduct only one
half for females; that leaves 15,000,000 males.
Deduct again one half of these for males who have
not yet arrived at man’s estate; that leaves 7,500,000.
Now divide by the number of purchasers of
Reynolds’. The quotient is a fraction less than
13. So that, of adult male Englishmen, one out
of every twelve buys Reynolds’. It would be fair
to reckon that, at least, half the copies are read by
two persons. But that may be set off against the
possible proportion of female subscribers. It ap-
pears, then, that one out of every twelve adult
Englishmen read Reynolds’. Now, Reynolds’ Is
not merely advanced Liberal, it is ultra-Radlcal,
and often down-right Republican! Anybody can
make the obvious deduction.
In a recent number of the Victorian
Review J. Turnbull Thomson essays to controvert
Henry George’s assertion that a state of equality
would constantly tend to make every individual
richer instead of poorer. Thomson quotes the
following figures as a proof that In Britain, where
there is no state of equality, general riches have
increased with progress:—
Nobility, Gentry, &c.
Year. No. Income as a whole.
1782.. .. 3,300,000 £60,691.705
1865 8,000,000 £613,316,237
Labouring Classes.
1782 8,800,000 £62,000,000
1865 32,000,000 £438,034,380
But these figures don’t touch the “ every indivi-
dual” side of George’s argument. Even if they
be admitted as showing that wealth is more distri-
buted in these days than it was in the last century,
they steer clear of the awful contrast which
George dwells on with such weight of argument—
the contrast between the utter wealth of the mil-
lionaire, and the utter poverty of the hundreds of
thousands whose life is one long shiver of want
from the cradle to the grave.
Mr. Abbott, the N.S.W. Minister for Mines,
is drafting th® Land Bill.. .G arranny’s ultra Con-
servative Loudon correspondent observes that tho
appointment of tho Marquis of Lansdowno to
succeed Lome in Canada “ is a very good one in
itself, because Lord Lansdowne is a popular man
and a good sportsman, and he has had more ex-
perience as a politician than most men of his
years.” Rather negative grounds whereupon to
raise a critical “very good,” eh ? Lots of men of
Lansdowne’s years (38), have had no political ex-
perience, and are bettor sportsmen and more
popular—though not big Whigs — The Wide Bay
News Is a holy and terribly bigoted paper, and
parades the effigy of Pious King William of Im-
mortal Memory. It is, therefore, very loyal—in
the sense that Kippax, Abigail, and Co. are loyal.
What, then, does it'moan by printing dynamite in
connection with Queensland politics— re the Trans-
continental scheme. In fact? Here you are:—
“ Griffith will never run as a whipped our behind
the legs of the biggest dynamite-breeding Ministry
-dynamite-breeding for our sons, ditto for our
grandchildren—the iron band of the tyranny of
wealth! If we can pay this syndicate such enor-
mous value (£6,000,(XK) tor £3,000,000 work) our great
free land can do it herself In the same time, and I
ask Irish, English, and Scotch labour to protest
against the most barefaced robbery ever pro-
posed.” So Keith’s son is going to use dynamite,
ehl The proceeds of a lecture on “TheFuture
Land Policy of N.S.W.,” at Albury, by Mr. T.
Garrett, M.L.A., has been devoted to the fund for
the assistance of old Tom Boyd, the last survivor
of Hume’s exploring expedition of 1834—60 years
ago “Handsome Fwed” Cooper, the North
Queensland bush-lawyer, who is supposed to repre-
sent Cook electorate, and who has disgracefully
neglected his constituency while heiress-hunting
in the South, has introduced a bill to exclude Coolies
and Chinese from the gold and tin mines. This is
merely an electioneering dodge, The oily creature
knows that there is not the slightest chance of it
being carried this session in consequence of the
heavy business—Mr. Montgomery, M.H.R., has
submitted a motlou on the subject of decentralsa-
tion. His proposition is, to a certain extent, a
return to an enlarged form of Provincialism, and
a confession that Abolition has been a failure
Estimated New Zealand expenditure for ’83 is
£3,661,496; revenue, £3,609,847. Deficit of £53,147
to be met by a Md. increase in the property tax,
which is now >&d. in the £ London brokers
wouldn’t look at the West Australian loan of
£350,000 ...Action should be taken against the
wholesale rescission of water-frontage reservations
all along Sydney harbour now in course of being
perpetrated; and not only against what is being
perpetrated, but retrospectively against all that has
been perpetrated. Parnell, what’s your little game 7
.. .Wagga means to banquet the Ministry. J ones has
an axe to grind The N.Z. Government Insur-
ance Department was started in ’70. It has now
17,000 policies in force, assuring 5}4 millions; accu-
mulated funds, % million ; monthly business,
over £100,000. .The several Governments of Austra-
lasia should unite in a pronunciamento to the
effect that the Royal Colonial Institute is an irre-
sponsible body, the voice of the members of wnich
but rarely If ever reflects Australasian opinion.
Such a body should not be permitted to obtain the
ear of the Colonial Office—save under protest
N.Z. Legislative Council recently recruited by
three following nominees (bringing up its number
to 50):—James Crowe Richmond, of Nelson, in
former years Native Minister during one of the
Maori wars; Alfred de Bathe Brandon, a septuage-
narian lawyer, for nearly a quarter of a century
in the Lower House; and John Wallis Barnicoat,
of Nelson, for some years Speaker of the Nclsou
Provincial Council, and in his youth one of the lew
who escaped from tho Wairau massacre iu 1843.
* • .
Among the burdens borne by t he unlucky
peasantry of Ireland, salary and pensions for Irish
Chancellors, present and past, are included. The
Irish Chancellor gets £8000 a year, and a retiring
pension of half that amount. As ho changes with
the Government, it sometimes happens that we
have three or four ex-Chancellors, as well as one
Chancellor in esse, upon the Irish Establishment.
The office iu this way rarely costs the country less
than £16,000, and often £30,000, a year. An English
paper has the gross indecency to call this “ wicked
extravagance. All the ex-Ohancellors will agree
that such remarks are “scurrilous.” Tho New
York Independent, whose leanings are towards
England, says: “ Perhaps a little more just dealing
and less talk of charity from England would help
to a solution of the Irish quest:on. John Bright
estimates that since the beginning of the present
century Great Britain has spent about £4,400,000,000
for war, and only about £800,000,000 for civil
government and improvements —The Opposition
mean to fight the second Suez Canal scheme;
Childers says it was the best arrangement that
could be obtained — Bradlaugh excluded by reso-
lution of the Commons from the precincts of tho
House during present session of Parliament
The Government of India intends to subsidise the
rule of Afghanistan to the tunc of 13 lacs per
annum—a mere bagatelle England to find tho
coin for a second Suez Canal; in return, to have
the privilege of nominating one Englishman as
vice-president of the company. France thinks that
Do Lesseps got the best or the bargain. So do we...
The Republique Francaise acidly asks John
Bull:—“What would you English do with your
troops in Egypt If a serious crisis were to super-
vene in Europe ? Do you think you are very
safely established in your possessions ? See how
you are respected in your empire in South Africa.
The Zulus are tearing each other to pieces and
fighting against you. The Boors are derisively
defying you, and you dare not even remonstrate
with them. The Basutos you disarmed under a
Sromise of protecting them, and you abandon
lem to the tender mercies of their enemies, who
are your enemies too. And then look at home.”..
A House of Lords committee reports the working
of the Irish Land Act to be a total failure. That
goes without saying from that quarter It is
rumoured that a British Protectorate will have te
be established in Egypt.. .Joint committee of both
Houses of Parliament have decided against the
Channel tunnel. Proposal now to bridge the
Channel!—Derby says the British Government
would offer no objection to formation of a colonial
squadron, or to the soiling of British offi-
cers therein Northbrook, the ruler of the
Queen’s navee, will regard no scheme for
localising any portion of the British Fleet.
£500 will be paid for any case that Hop
Bitters will not cure or help. Doubt not. See.*
Galignani says that the terms offered by
the Government of Victoria for officers of the
Royal Artillery to command the local force in the
colony not having proved sufficiently attractive,
the War Office at home have been asked to lend
the services of two Majors. R.A., the following in-
ducements being offered, viz.: £1000 a year, with
a house, for a commanding officer, who is to rank
as colonel; and £700 a year to a junior major, to
act as staff officer to the corps.
Mick Henuessy had a 30-aere block iu
Gippsland. But death comes to men sooner or
later, whether they have 30 or 30,000 acre blocks.
It knocked at Mick’s door, and he—guessing who
was outside—sent for the priest; and, having told
everything he did since he lamed the parish prie t
in mistake for the landlord, turned over and died.
He had a grown-up daughter. She had a sweet-
heart. He wanted the 30-aere block; so, when the
transfer form reached Melbourne, It informed the
authorities that Mick Hennessy wanted to make
the farm over to his prospective son-in-law be-
cause (so runs the paper) “being dead and buried,
I have no further use for the land.”
DEATH.
FELLOWES.—Frances Ethel, the loving and loved
daughter of Francis Fellowes, Leatherhead,
Surrey (England), departed this life, in Mel-
bourne, Australia, July 37th, 1883. In mcrao-
rium.
ARCHIBALD FORBES.


VALUABLE TRUTHS.
»If you are suffering from poor health
* or languishing on a bed of sickness,
* take cheer, for
Hop Bitters will cure you.
“ If you are simply ailing, if you feel
* weak and dispirited, without clearly
‘knowing why,
Hop Bitters will Revive you.
“ If you are a Minister, and have over-
‘ taxed yourself with your pastoral
‘ duties, or a Mother worn out with care
‘and work,
Hop Bitters will Restore you.
“If you are a man of business or
* labourer weakened by the strain of
‘ your every-day duties, or a man of let-
* ters, tolling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strenghten you.
“ If you are suffering from over eating
‘ordrinking, any indiscretion or dissi-
* patlon, or are young and growing too
‘ fast, as is often the case,
Hop Bitters will relieve you.
“ If you are in the workshop, on the
* farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
‘ that your system needs cleansing, ton-
‘ ing, or stimulating, without inttoxicat-
‘ing
Hop Bitters is what you need.
“ If you are old, and your blood thin
‘ and impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
‘unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Hop Bitters will give you new Life
and Vigour.
“ HOP BITTERS is an elegant, heal-
‘ thy, and refreshing flavouring for eick-
‘ room drinks ; impure water, etc., ren-
‘ dering them harmless, and sweetening
‘ the mouth, and cleansing the stomach.
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And yqu will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
HOP BITTERS
is an Elegant, Pleasant, and Refreshing Flavouring
for sick-room drinks and Impure Water, rendering
them harmless, sweetening the mouth, and cleans-
ing the stomach.
GRAHAM,
T-A-HjOZe,
531
George St., Sydney.
Palace of Fashion
and Art.
The Apparel aft (proclaims the .Han.”
MR. J. GRAHAM has recently returned from
a Special
BUSINESS TOUR
in the United States and Europe (London, Pans,
Berlin, &c.), and has arranged for the introduction
per each Mail Steamer of the
Newest, Costliest, and Most Fashionable
CLOTHING MATERIAL,
simultaneously with their introduction by the
fashionable Houses of London and Paris, &c.
CLOTHING is made up at the shortest notice by
the best talent in Australia and London, and exact
reproductions of London and Paris Fashions in
Art and Material guaranteed.
Ballroom and Bridal Outfits, and Evening Dress
Suits, in a style unequalled or unsurpassed.
Mr. J. Graham speaks through the Press to the
gentlemen in the most distant parts of the interior.
Prompt attention aqd Advice given in matters of
Dress, Style, &c., with instructions for measure-
ment, free of cost, and the best and most satisfac-
tory results guaranteed.
For the protection of the Public, the name
GRAHAM and the figures 531 are of mammoth
dimensions—the largest on any establishment in
all Australia.
The Fashionable World of Australia and
the great middle class of the cities and towns as
well, are requested to continually note the an-
nouncements in this column, from
J. GRAHAM, Tailor,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BE. 11ESOT8 MW WOKE.
A valuable book, describing how suffer-
ers from Nervous and physical Debility,
Mental Decay and all disorders result-
ing from Excesses, Indiscretions or
Overwork, are permanently Cured
WITHOUT STOMACH MEDICATION.
Weak, nervous A impotent Men restored t«
VIOOE, HEALTH AND MANHOOD.
Consultation and Book tree. Address—
MAESTON BE MED? Co., 359 Oeorge St.
SYDITEV .
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION,
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT, WEAK-
NESS, &i.
PRICE 2s. 6d.
Prepared by A. G. KEBBLEWHITE, Chemist, &C.
43 ERSKINE STREET.
Sold by W. H. SOUL, and all Chemists.
EVERY
MAN
SHOULD
READ
PEPPER AND SALT.
A nation is nothing in these days unless it
has a standing army. The Orange Free State—a
bantam republic in South Africa—has, therefore, a
standing army. It consists of some two score of
tatterdemalions, armed with duck-guns and road-
metal, and commanded by ton generals, who are
all cripples. It is a rule in the Free State, when-
ever an officer is appointed to the rank of general,
to break his legs at the knees, so that he shall not
have the handicap on his soldiers when the time
comes for running away from the enemy. This
reminds us of an incident in Irish history. A war-
like elan was on the war-path, and had made a
descent upon another clan, and carried away two
kegs of whisky and the sacred potato pot of the
tribe—potatoes, by the way, were not known in
those days, but we are not going to be hampered
because people were ignorant. The tribe that was
robbed gave chase to the robbers, a considerable
number of whom were wounded, Then the brave
survivors turned round, tied their wounded kins-
men to stakes, and made a desperate stand—behind
them. After a sufficient number of the others
were killed, they also adopted the same plan.
Until at last only one of each clan was left
alive. These waked the others on the two kegs
of whisky. And died drunk. This is justly
considered by historians as one of the most
glorious episodes in the annals of a glorious race
To come back to the grand army of the Free State,
however. The last campaign of this noble body
was against a Roman Catholic convent. This was
besieged by the whole force of the Free State,
barring two generals who were drunk, four
colonels who were hen-roosting, and the com-
mander-in-chief, who was in bed waiting till his
pants were mended. They first opened fire upon
the windows with a volley of road-metal. It was
some time before they effected a breach, because
most of the sharpshooters were cross-eyed, and
the rest had either paralysis in the arms or couldn’t
see straight because their ears had not been tied
back before starting. But, at last, the crack shot of
the army broke a pane, and struck one of the
sisters over the eye. Then the Reverend Mother
came out, and the grand army of the Orange Free
State took to its crutches and made for home. The
capital was illuminated with a gallon of kerosene
and a tar-barrel in honour of the victory, and such
of the brave survivors as had found their way
back were decorated with the Order of the Ostrich
for speed in the field. Who would not yearn for
glory after this? And, talking about glory, we
recollect that some years ago, when we were at
Panama—wo should, perhaps, have said Pynnont,
but it doesn’t affect the story—two Central Ameri-
can States fell out and declared war against each
other. The richer State had the lesser army-
eleven soldiers of all ranks and an undertaker—
but it won by strategy. The undertaker took out
a hearseful of cooked provisions, and then the
army went into camp. When the other force was
seen advancing in the distance, the camp was de-
serted, but the provisions were left. The enemy
swooped down upon the camp, and took possession
of the stores. In the morning a scout from the
other side came round and found every soldier in
the army dead. One square meal' had killed them.
Five la gloirt!
Vive la gloire, again! Sound the tom-tom ;
dig up the hatchet; shovel on the war-paint. The
French have insulted the English, an*l the English
are going to wipe out the stain in the best blood
that ever— Helas non! there is no such luck. It
will be just like a street row, where two men talk
loudly and make grimaces at each other and bandy
about disparaging allusions and square up and get
a crowd round, and then, just when people's ex-
pectations are worked up to fever pitch, put their
hands in their pockets and go ho ne. We shall be
sorry in real dead earnest if no trouble comes out
of this Madagascar affair. War, of course; let us
have war. For our own part, we should like it to
be a perpetual war-time—in Madagascar. There is
more whisky drunk at war-time than at any other
time. There are more lies told. There is more
fun of every kind. There is nothing so fine as the
life of a soldier. A soldier has nothing to do only
to drill and mount guard, and pipeclay his belts and
look fierce, and jab people whom he has never seen
before in the abdomen with a prong. This is a
glorious aim—a high destiny to live for, if you
like. It would bo an instructive sight if it were
possible to look down upon the countries of Europe
and see the arsenals and barracks of the groat
nations ateem with men who are held in leash
ready to bo slipped at each others’ throats
at a word—at a sign; and to see the shadow of the
condor wings of Fate eternally around them. But
vice la gloire! The moustached Pierre goes home
from the war with one eye and half an arm, and
sits in the chimney corner of the auberge with his
glass of little blue in his hand, and toasts la grande
nation, and drinks destruction to the German.
The German goes home to his Prussian or Bavarian
or Swabian village with one leg, and enough lead
in his body to roof a church. He gets a wooden
leg, which is useful for dibbling kail, and he gar-
dens in the intervals of drinking beer and smoking,
and cursing the French. Those who have stayed
on the battle-field are the best off, however. It
must be an inspiriting and heroic sight to see a
man tacked to the ground with a bayonet, like a
worm on a pin, wriggling round and crying with
his last breath, “ Vive I'Empereur,” or another with
the top of his skull hanging over his eyes, waving
h's sword with a last effort, and crying “ Vor-
warts!” and then falling on his face, never to look
at the sky again. This is patriotism and glory. It
is amusing when one comes to consider what the
majority of these men have to fight for—say a
cabbage-garden, and permission to live on black
bread whenever they can get it. But no matter:
blood must be spilt somehow; and, therefore, vlve
la gloire!
m •
In one of his school reports, Mr. Inspector
Macgroarty (Central District, Queensland) says:—
“ In general those in charge of Provisional sjhools
have had no experience in teaching, the office
being often filled by persons who have failed in
other walks of life/’ If the Inspector ever read
Swift, he (the Inspector) must have come >■ cross
the passage where Patrick’s Dean asserts “ The
best brains blossom late.” That’s how the case
stands with the Provisional teachers. Their brains
put forth blossoms — grog blossoms — late (and
early).
The Rev. J. C. Symons is lecturing in Mel-
bourne on the “plurality of worlds.” Ever since
one of the Herschels started this thing—a good
many years ago now—lecturers turn up year by
year to tell us that a number of opaque bodies
whirl round the sun; that some of these bodies are
attended on then- ceaseless round by other and
smaller globes; that the fixed stars are suns, many
of them a great deal bigger than ours, and pro-
bably surrounded by planetary systems like our
own. Beyond this the lecturers never get. There
they stick, and year by year go over the same
ground with wearying monotony. Now, there
would be some excuse for them if they could tell
us whether those distant bodies were inhabited or
inhabitable, whether their occupants were bestial
or rational, whether —bah! Where shall we stop ?
What revelation was over vouchsafed to mankind
half so interesting as that would be which told us
what sort of people lived on Uranus or Neptune,
how they spent their time, and whether they were
troubled with larrikins or religious newspapers ?
Thirty years has elapsed since Wolfe’s
Schnapps was given to the world, and by common
consent of the people it now ranks as the only
medicated stimulant which effectually tones the
stomach and the nerves.*
MOON-SET.
(By What is Left of the Bard that once.)
Sweetheart, the night is bright and still,
The white clouds tret
The topaz sky. Keep watch until
The moon has set.
Night bends on us her starry eyes
Like a coquette;
Soon will they pale when in the skies
The moon has set.
Hark to the music of the spheres.
The great quartette
Of the great Cross! Say if, ye seers,
The moon has set!
Have ye no news that night, the bat,
The dawn has met ?
No smallest word to tell us that
The moon has set V
Be still, sweetheart, till your bright eyes
No glimpse shall get
Of mine, and in the woe-black skies
The mooli has set!
Be still, sweetheart, and be at rest;
Be still and lot
Your breath be soft, till in the west
The moon has set.
Behold the sheen of white clouds curled,
The banneret
Of Dian!—who shall tell the world
The moon has set ?
Despite of Death, who maids and men
Snares in his net,
Our time of happiness comes when
The moon has set.
Ah, love, akin are joy and woe,
The grass is wet
With dew like tears: soon shall we know
The moon has set.
Patience awhile —O patient be
And stir not yet!
Darkness will tell us when —ah, me!—
The moon has sot.
The hour has come at last. Be smart,
’Tis black as jet,
Steal to the wood-heap now, sweetheart,
The moon has set!
THE PHILANTHROPIST.
He sat in pride—no matter where-
in pride, and also in a chair.
And gentle gales his forehead kissed,
He was a great philanthropist.
He could have played you pitch-and-toss
With all the wealth the Man of Boss
Gave to the poor, and ne’er have missed
The coin, this great philanthropist.
His wealth was like a fairy tale,
His gifts were on a gorgeous scale;
There was no trace of the “ close fist ”
About this great philanthropist.
Who was he, say you ? He—now there I—
Was a colonial millionaire,
Who in his nature had a twist
Towards being a philanthropist.
He founded churches, founded schools,
And founded fellowships for fools;
Nothing could get him to desist,
He was such a philanthropist.
His name you would be sure to nd
In letters of the biggest kind,
On every subscription-list,
This great and good philanthropist.
One day, just as his day began,
There came to him a starving man,
Who thought he surely would assist
His case, this great philanthropist.
Which shows starvation brings no sense,
But plenty of impertinence—
And take his part let whoso list,
We stand by the philanthropist.
They threw him out into the cold,
This beggar, sick and starved and old.
He died that night—he wasn't missed —
At least by the philanthropist.
We really cannot make out why
Such creatures do not go and die
At once, or why they snould exist
To plague a great philanthropist.
He let the man die, to be sure—
But then, you see, the man was poor—
And, anyhow, we still insist
He was a great philanthropist.
So, in his chair he sat in pride,
And troubled not who lived or died;
And gentl gales tho forehead kissed
Of this sublime phbanthropist.
LITTLE DANNY’S DYING WISH.
Little Danny lay a-dying in his little curtained
bod,
Father sat beside his feet and mother sat beside his
head;
Very sad indeed was father, mother’s face was wan
and mild,
And they wept in silence sorrowful above their
dying child.
Pale his face was as white marble, and his cheeks
wore sunken in.
And the little hands stretched on the quilt were
very worn and thin;
His blue eyes were wide open, but his ga/.e was far
away.
He seemed to see the angels in the land beyond the
day.
“Ah,” said the good old parson then, “ if we like
this dear child *
Could die with sweet unworldly thou hts and con-
science wndeflled!
Look at the sweet enraptured ga/.e there is in his
blue eyes.
He surely now is gazing at the saints in Paradise!”
The mother bent her head, a d while the teardrop
dimmed her eye,
Said “ Danny, are you sorry that you have so soon
to die ?”
“I aie,” he answered faintly; "I’d have liked to
live until
I could give a dashed good licking to rng little brother
Bill!"
MERRY MARY.
Have you heard the tale of Mary—merry Mary
blithe and free ?
Mary with the cheeks like roses and the breath like
briony:
Like the scent of briony, sirs, as it clambers up the
wall
Of the quiet ancient garden—have you heard the
tale at all ?
Merry Mary, who at Manly lived beside the surf-
bound bay,
Mary dear, whose eyes were brighter than the
sparkles of the spray;
And whose white teeth flashed in laughter as the
waves’-crcsts round the shore
Flash in foam when on the brown sea-sand the
riven waters roar.
Mary, full of life and gladness, and of little winning
ways,
Knowing nought at all of sadness, living all in
sunny days;
Full of life and hope and laughter, charming ev’ry-
one she met,
Tell us softly, gentle readers, have you heard her
story j et ?
Merry Mary—merry Mary, with the lips like honey-
dew,
And the smile of tender archness, sir.-, that thrilled
you through and through;
Surely you have heard her story ? If you haven’t,
then, ou see,
I We are sorry, sirs; for neither, we regret to say, have
we.
BROWN'S FIRST LETTER HOME.
(A TALE OF TEMORA.)
This merry little madrigal we tootle to you tree:
If you can ’tlaugh at it, dear boys, why you can
Forit U co h ncerns — but softly, for it might convulse
A minor on Temora, and the name of him was
Brown.
This Brown he was a Cornishman, with shoulders
like a door;
And like a knocker was his nose—you d know it in
And 1 , winding up the simile with neatness and dos-
remark his intellect was always on the
latch.
His frame was massive, yet, sirs, it was not his
better part.
For in his manly breast there beat a very woman s
He could not see a fowl in pain—and be would see
ButVewould take it home in tears and—put It in
the pot!
He had, and he remembered it with gratitude and
glee, ..
A father and a mother, too, across the raging sea;
And he would smile in sleep to think—cold cy ic,
you may scoff!—
That both were in the workhouse very comfort-
ably off.
And many a “ clean-up ” night he d think if he his
share could save, ,. .
And send it home to them, ’twould smooth their
path unto the grave; J ,
And how the mem’ry of this deed, when they to
dust had sunk.
Would comfort him, he’d ponder much, and then-
get blazing drunk!
This Brown he had a brother bold, who worked on
the same claim,
Their mutual affection Saul and Jonathan s would
shame; , ,, .
For share and share alike it was when they their
beer would quaff,
And so, you see, whate’er they drunk ’twas always
half-and-half.
But Brown, although he seemed to be a simple
mining gnome, .. ,
Had one idea in his head which was to write to
He’d promised to the old folks, and he meant it
without doubt, . ...
But somehow he could never And a thing to write
about.
And this neglect of duty so upon his mind did
That'ttfthe shadow of himself he dwindled day by
Untifho grow so thin at last that when he wished,
you see.
To shave, he only had to rub his chin upon his
knee.
So thin, so very thin he was, that when his friends
he’d greet,
They always would complain that he had cut”
them in the street;
And then be noted, too, that, like a shark in a ship’s
wake,
The undertaker followed him whichever way he’d
take.
And all around the diggings it became a standing
That Brown was crazed because he couldn’t write
to his old folk,
And that he’d grown so weak and thin who once
was strong and stout.
Because he couldn’t find a thing at all to write
about.
But miners, though they like their joke, have dis-
positions good,
For him they got up dog-flghts and told lies—’twas
all they could;
But Brown would only shake his head and say, to
their surprise,
His old folks took no interest in dog-fights or in
lies.
So he might now be lying in the cold and silent
grave,
But that a providential thing occurred his life to
save:
One day when he was down the shaft a cry the
stillness rent:
“ Hi, Brown, come up; there is a man a-hangin’ in
your tent.”
Then Brown ho came up to the top and dashed
along with glee,
One so transformed in such short space you never,
sirs, did see;
And as he went he yelled aloud at every claim he
passed:
“ Hurrah, boys, I have now some news to write to
home at last.”
They say who saw him at the time—we don’t know
if it’s true—
That he grew fatter as he ran—can’t credit it—can
you V
And furthermore, that by the time he reached to
the tent-door
He weighed, to judge by looks at least, some four-
teen stone or more.
However, when he lifted up the flap with lingers
rough,
There was a body hanging from the ridge-pole sure
enough;
He turned its face unto the light, its cold white
face and still,
And found it was the body of his loving brother,
Bill.
Then straight he cut that body down, and with a
jacknito, lo,
Sliced off a piece of skin of size—say, duodecimo,
And then addressed an envelope and put this slice
within,
On which was writ: “ Dear parents, this is brother
William’s skin.”


Abraham’s Pills
' (DANDELION),
the great liver remedy,
. oti-aiia's favourite remedy. Wo aU suffer more
liver complaint, thereby hindering
0 from fulfilling their function?. Set
. 0 t.-vpr in order by taking the above remedy, and
l b rt lungs brain, and stomach will unite in
graceful chorus.
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
-The true invlgorator. If your vital forces are
depressed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
S T n d weakness, or a presentiment of coming
aisaster, your liver is uneoual to its work. To
obviate all these symptoms there is no remedy so
Bure and certain as
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion of
the maladies and ailments attacking the human
r m A are really due to a disordered liver. Set this
oS£n in order and health returns as if by magic.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are imitations, ask for ABRAHAM’S
pit LS See that each box, by whomsoever sold,
bears the inventor’s name and trade mark. The
Ceorjfe stPeet> Sydney.
MONEY LOANS GRANTED at moderate inte-
rest on Furniture (without possession),
Bonds, Certificates, Shares, or other Secu-
rities, payable to suit convenience.
Vo Deduction made from amount Required,
which will be paid in full within twelve hours of
application.
MONT DE PIETE CENTRAL LOAN OFFICE,
98 Castlreaqh Street,
One door South of King Street.
WORKING CLASSES,
GENERATE YOUR OWN GAS.
KEELY AND CO.,
71 Goulburn-street, Sydney.
Dealers in Portable Gas, Gasallers, Lamps, and
Fluid. Comfort, Economy, and Safety.
Mr Kocly, on behalf of the Patent Portable Gas
Co had charge of the lighting of the hall and
supper rooms at the Hay Demonstration, and the
banting of Croydon Station. He undertakes to
teach his customers in three minutes the mode of
li! A liberal discount will be given to storekeepers
on remittances per orders, and goods forwarded
wRh quick despatch. Orders and remittances to
be sent to the above address. No orders attended
to without remittance.
10 LIST OF PRICES:
i Light Gasalier 70s
3 do do 50s
3 do do 35s to 45s
Wall bracket lamp, burn 16 hours.. 17s 6d
do do 9 do .. 15s
Table lamps, 3 branch 60s
do 1 do .. .’. .. 45s
Brass Brackets 40s
All Globes and Fittings .. .. 5s extra
Fluid, in cases, 8 gal 2s 6d per gal.
1 gal. fluid gives a light equal to 13s worth kero-
sene. Instructions as to the mode of lighting sent
to clients with despatch of goods.
Goods sent to all parts of the Colonies.
EVERY DESCRIPTION OF FISHING TACKLE,
Wholesale and Retail.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE STREET.
Y. E. ANGLE’S
(Late of 31 Market-street),
Fashionable Tailoring Establishment
636 GEORGE STREET,
Brickfield Hill.
A large and well-assorted stock of Tweeds and
Coatings, direct from the manufacturers, always
on hand.
All Garments Cut in the most Fashionable Styles.
PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
Note the Address-
636 Georgo St., Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY.
ERNEST CARTER,
Wardell Saw and Planing Mills,
RICHMOND RIVER.
Ail Timber is thoroughly seasoned before it
leaves these Mills, and is very light for carriage
up-country, and fit for immediate use.
PINE, CEDAR, BEECH, FLOORING, LINING.
Mouldings, Architraves. The Trade only Supplied.
A. GORMAN,
Late of the Telegraph Hotel, InvereU,
HAS OPENED THE
‘ Cla.re2nLd.0rx,’
Corner of ELIZABETH & PARK Streets,
And which ho intends to keep as a first-class Hotel,
G * , ho P es ' by strict attention to Business, t
HIP ** share of their PATRONAGE. VISITOR
unLIro this surpasses most of the leadin
tor ACCOMODATION and every CO*
''LMENCE ; and, as it overlooks f [ YDE PARK, i
must necessarily be WELL VENTILATED.
SUITES of ROOMS for FAMILIES,
as per agreement.
HOT and COLD WATER BATHS.
PORTER in Attendance Day and Night.
wVwpI} 0 e2VC o ,^ ry to motion (he quality of tl
wav8hp/£ IRITS ’ 1 l ET l K8 ’ &c ” »« and a
for *ellin„ on L . noted throughout the COLONIE
selling nothing but the very best.
BULL & ADRIAN,
Merchant Tailors,
%
9
SO
SAY
ALL
OF
US
470 O-eorge-street, opposite the Markets,
STDNET.
PAPERHANGING S!
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSERY PAPERS.
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, &C.
Imported by
Alexander Borthw/ck,
381 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT,
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &c.
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE
COFFEE PALACE,
231 GEORGE STREET NORTH.
JOHN JOHNSON, Proprietor.
HAVING opened the above, the Proprietor has
supplied a want long felt in Sydney. The
first floor contains spacious Ladies and Gentle-
men’s Dining and Drawing Rooms, also Suites and
Single Bedrooms (viz., 45 bedrooms), will be open
shortly. A trial solicited.
CALL AND INSPECT.
THOMAS MUNRO,
HERALDIC ARTIST AND ENGRAVER,
PLAIN AND FANCY STATIONER,
10 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
A Large and varied assortment of Letter Books,
Account Books, and all office requisites. Purses,
Albums, Plush Bags, and Reticules; Artists’ Mate-
rials, Photo, and Picture Frames, Illuminated
Scripture and other texts. Birthday, Condolence,
and Memorial Cards.
Agent for August Huenerbein for Pianos, Or-
gans, and Music. The Engraving workshop being
under my own management, I feel confident in
suiting the public taste.
E,
W
O L F F AND
Manufacturers of
SON
Black Lead Pencils, Drawing Chalks, Crayons,
Artists’ Materials, and Stationers’ Sundries.
Makers, by appointment, to Her Majesty’s Govern-
ment and the Bank of England.
Office and Warehouse: 65 Great Queen-street
Lincoln’s Inn Fields, W.C. Factory: Falcon Pend
Works, Battersea, London, S.W. A full set oi
samples can be seen, and further particulars ob-
tained, on application to
E. B. WOLFF (Sole Agent for N.S.W.), care oi
Messrs. Feldheim, Gotthelf and Co., 30 Hunter-
street, Sydney.
S
ECURE A LOT AT SPRINGSIDE;
£1 DEPOSIT, £1 PER MONTH.
FORTUNATUS FINANCIAL, LAND, AND
INVESTMENT COMPANY,
®”317 PITT STREET,
Near Temperance Hall.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
WIRE WORKERS,
WISH to coil your attention to WIRE GOODS
we make and have in stock as under
FLOWER STANDS, for holding flowers in pots,
made of iron and wire, handsomely framed and
bronzed, suitable for rooms, halls, balconies, ver-
andahs, and conservatories. Also, WIRE FERN
BASKETS, all sizes and prices.
SIEVES and SCREENS, for screening lime,
gravel, coal, &c., all meshes, from 1 hole to 100
holes to the squares inch.
WIRE LATTICE-WORK, for protection of win-
dows from breakage caused by hail-storras or boys’
throwing stones. Also, WIRE NETTING, all sizes,
from 13 in. to 73 in. wide.
CAGES of every description, for canaries and
parrots, singly or in nests, suitable for store-
keepers.
And every description of WIRE WORK made on
the premises.
EASTWAY. BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE-STREET.
Illustrated Catalogues on application.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
IF your Chemist or Grocer cannot or will n
-T wi . th the “PAINLESS COR
itiiLIEVER,” write direct to the Registered Fi-
nn etor, who will forward a bottle to all parts (
Australasia, Post Free, for 3s. 6d.
Address:—JOHN CLOWES,
One Mile Creek, Gym pie.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
FOWLER’S POTTERY and
BRICKWORKS,
CAUPEKDOWN, NEAll SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
T
HE FEDERAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA
(Limited)
Incorporated under Act of Parliament.
CAPITAL, £1000,000 ; SUBSCRIBED, £665,000.
Directors *
The Hon. W. A. Brodribb, M.L.C., Chairman.
W. H. Eldred, Esq., J.P
Robert Hudson, Esq
F. T. Humphery, Esq.,
M.P.
, J. Y. Mills, Esq., J.P.
Manager ; F. S. Macdermott.
Accountant: John Docker.
Solicitors : Messrs. Robertson, Fisher, and Ralfe.
Temporary Banking House, 357 George-street,
North, with branch at the Haymarket.
Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies
and in Europe.
Highest rates of interest given on Deposits, and
all usual Banking business transacted without
delay to customers.
F. S. MACDERMOTT, Manager.
IV. H. Ariell and Co.’sAgencies.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, Canter-
bury, Normanby, and Christmas Family Cakes,
Plum Puddings, Mincemeat, Self-raising
ASrated Flour, Infant’s Food, Treacle and
Golden Syrup.
EXCELSIOR MILLS.—Superior Victorian Oat-
meal and Pearl Barley.
DILLON & BURROWS’ prize assorted Confec-
tionery.
J, KITCHEN & SONS, No. 1 Mottled and Toilet
Soaps.
J. F. M'KENZIE & CO.’S Coffee, Mustard, Cocoa,
Tea, in Jilb. and Ub. packets ; dressed Rico,
and Patent Groats.
HUNT & CO.’S Prize Baking Powders, Adelaide
Jams' Paper Bags, &c.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
Coolalta Wine, Bodega,
MORT’S PASSAGE, back of Messrs. W. H.
Paling and Co.’s.
Choicest Wines, by the glass or bottle, may be had
at the Bodega. Hot Spiced Wines during Winter.
Open from 9 a.m. till 6 p.m.
DANCING.— Prof. WEST'S Classes. — 1'nvate
Lessons, Monday and Thursday mornings ;
afternoon classes,Thursdays. Evening: Beginners,
Mondays, 8 p.m.; Thursdays, 7.30 p.m.; Advanced,
8.30 p.m.. at Tattersall’s New Hall, Hunter-street.
Second term now commencing. During present
school holidays there will be time for private
lessons in new waltz, &c, 351 Elizabeth-street.
The Dancing Academy being the largest in
Sydney, there are now vacancies, quarter dating
from entrance.
THE AUSTRALIAN
Diamond Drill Company.
CONTRACTS will bo undertaken by the above
Company to boro any sized holes, vortical or
horizontal, up to
3 INCHES, OR LARGER IF REQUIRED,
to any depth, at a reduction of 35 PER CENT.
BELOW ANY PREVIOUS CHARGE.
The Company, in all cases, will find their own
fuel and water for drilling’ purposes, and will make
no charge for loss of diamonds or wear and tear on
plant, and will also provide workmen engineers, &c.
The new duplex barrel, introduced into the
colony by Mr. J. Coghlan, will be used free of
charge to persons searching for minerals.
Mr. Coglan has every confidence, from his prac-
tical knowledge of the Diamond Drill, that he will
be able to give general satisfaction, as well as quick
despatch to all orders addressed to the
Temporary Offices, 311 Georgc-street.
JOHN COGHLAN,
General Manager, pro. tem.
Singer’s Sewing Machines.
& CO.
Are the Recognised Agents of the
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS:
3s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week—2s. (id. per week.
And no interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS,
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE “ SINGER,”
TURNER & COMPANY,
353 Georgc-street.
THE ONLY “SINGER.”
Turner and Company,
OPPOSITE GENERAL POST OFFICE,
it
nniR burgis
l/Ut TAILOR,.
W VISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
FOR
CHEAPNESS, FIT, AND WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any
part of the Colony.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 Park Street,
IMPORTERS
of
PIANOS,
by every maker
of renown, from
£35 and up-
wards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
Pianos! Pianos! Pianos!
FREE TRADE and NO MONOPOLY.
Live and Let Live, these are Our Mottoes.
It is a well-known fact that the Foundations o
Colossal Fortunes have been established upon the
Profits arising from the SALE OF PIANOS in this
City during the past Twenty Years by those
having little or no knowledge of the Construction
and Details of the Pianoforte. While giving the
Public the benefit of our Mr. Young’s 25 years’
personal practical experience (5 years in John
Broadwood and Sons, London, and 20 in N.S.W.),
we will, at the same time, be satisfied wit 1 a fair
percentage on the Co-operative Prir - pic, sharing
the Profits with our Customers. We will cell from
35 per cent, less than the same class of Instrument
can be Purchased at any Music Shop in Sydney,
and we will offer nothing for Sale we cannot
guarantee. American Organs at proportionately
low prices. Also a Large Stock of Kohn’s Cele-
brated Austrian Furniture, a single article of
which we are selling at Wholesale Prices.
Come and See Our LITTLE BEAUTIES in Wal-
nut and Full Iron Frame, at £35 cash, Eleswhere
£10 more, or under a Liberal Time Payment Sys-
tem.
George E. Young and Co.,
285 PITT STREET,
South of Royal Arcade.
B
HAW'S WALTHAM WATCHE
TOOK FIRST PRIZE
And all the Gold Medals at every Exhibition.
MADE ESPECIALLY FOR
B. BRAUN,
Watchmaker, Jeweller, & Opticia
3 76 GEORGE STREET,
Near the Post Office.
The Largest Stock of Waltham Watches in Sydney
500 r,o select from.
Sf WcHhams from £3 to £12
Gold 1; P rams from £8 to £45.
Wan , 3 from two to seven years.
Only uc E. .-RAUN, 376 George Street,
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
T EDIAKD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON .-The
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
THE HARWOOD
Fibre Chair Seating,
Possessing all the qualities of a perfect seat, viz. ;
Strength, Durability, Ease, Beauty, Cleanliness
and Cheapness.
THIS CHAIR SEAT is made from the strongest
known fibres and a perfectly waterproof
cement, and after fifteen years’ constant use, we
can speak positively as to its merits. It cannot
split or check, neither will exposure to sun or rain
affect it.
Awarded Gold Medal at the late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
For RE-SEATING it is unrivalled. In every
house, store and office, are chairs with seats broken.
Any person can re-seat and make as good as new a
chair that is otherwise worthless, at a very trifling
expense.
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE FOR HOME USE.
Agents Wanted in Every District.
Prom £3 to £5 a week can be made by any smart
man or boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
83 CLARENCE STREET.
T
O BE DISPOSED OF BY SUB-
SCRIPTION
oh the
ART UNION PRINCIPLE,
f non pounds worth of fir f)f)f)
LI O ,UUU Freehold Properties. LlO,UUU
In 15,000 Shares of £1 Each:—
1st Prize, £8000—Hardwicke Estate, Yuss, N.S.W.,
3700 Acres.
3nd Prize, £3000, Farm, 800 Acres, near Gunning,
N.S.W.
3rd Prize, £2000, “ St. Kilda House,” Goulburn, 15
Rooms (insured £1000).
4th Prize, £800, “ Two-storied House ” in Clifford-
street, Goulburn.
5th Prize, £400
0th Prize, £150
7th Prize, £120
8th Prize, £120
Oth Prize, £85
10th Prize, £75
11th Prize, £75
13th Prize, £75
13th Prize, £75
14th Prize, £25
15th Prize £25
16th Prize £25
The following gentlemen have consented to act as
Committee:—
J. T. GANNON Esq., M.L.A., Goulburn.
JOHN BADGERY, Esq., Sutton Forest.
A.31. BETTS, Esq., Solicitor, Goulburn.
R. C. COOPER, Esq., Wllleroo, Luke George.
. JOHN DAVIDSON, Esq., Solicitor, Goulburn.
8. EMANUEL, Esq., J.P., Goulburn.
S. MEYER, Esq., J.P., Goulburn.
The DRAWING will take place in the Mechanics’
Institute, Goulburu, in the presence of the Com-
mittee, on 30th August next, and will be open to
the Shareholders.
For particulars see Prospectus, which may be
had upon application to J. J. ROBERTS. Secre-
tary, Box 33, Post-office, Goulburn. Local Agents
will be appointed in most of the principal Towns of
Send Stamp for Prospectus.


THE GHOST.
A TRUE STORY.
A ghost story has been sent us. As a
rule we set our faces against tales of this descrip-
tion. “ No,” we say, melancholy-like but with ex-
traordinary firmness, when we see the narrative
tending in the direction of the familiar figure in a
white sheet, a billy-cock hat, and ne’er an H in his
funereal croakings. “ No, sonny, we’ve been there
ever so many times afore. You just take,that copy
up King-street way. Say wo sent you, and as we
have a deal of Interest in that quarter, your in-
structive story will probably appear in the next
issue of the Rum.” This is our usual answer. But
the ghost whoso history has just been sent us
differs in so many important particulars from the
conventional spirit with whose appearance and de-
liverances we have all been so well acquainted
ever since we could look over a brick, that we
have decided on departing this once from the hard
and fast lines on which it is necessary to conduct
respectable journalism.
* * *
For obvious reasons the names of the
writer and of the actors are changed. And now
for the tale. When quite a young man, Frederick
Holton was sent from the West of England to
make a fortune in Australia. From the Western
parts of Scotland and Ireland young men also start
to make fortunes in Australia. But there is a dis-
tinction. The Englishmen generally leave home
with plenty of money and no experience. Their
Scotch and Irish cousins, on the contrary, as gene-
rally begin with a devil of a lot of experience but
no money. The result is a foregone affair; what a
convict usually calls a “ put-up job.” In a few
years tne Englishman has acquired a lot of valu-
able experience and may be found billiard-marking
or swabbing out hotel cellars, while his kinsmen
from the Tweed and the Shannon are running tor'
Parliament.
• • •
Young Holton brought out some money to
start squatting, and when the Sydney agents to
whom the money was entrusted advised him to go
on a station for a year as knockabout man and
general pot-wolloper he naturally enough resented
this advice. As ho had been brought up at Eton,
where loafing and squatting are taught in all its
branches, he thought—like Professor Pearson, of
Melbourne, w ho tried to breed from wethers —
that ho was up to snuff so far us sheep and cattle
were concerned. But the agents were obdurate, and
Fred, had to start up country tor a distant
station. He took a couple of horses—one to ride,
and the other to carry the blankets, grub, medi-
cine-chest, paper collars, reaping machines, and
things he thought might be useful on the trip. On
his way up he met an old schoolfellow, one Lau-
rence Gillooley, and they made a night of it in the
bush, the deeply, darkly, beautifully blue sky
above, the stately eucalypti around, and quite a
number of empty giu-bottles in the foreground.
Laurence—or, as no was unconventionally termed,
Larry—made poor Holton’s hair stand as stiff as a
corporation labourer when the “boss” is three
blocks away canvassing for an election, by telling
of a haunted hut in the Immediate neighbourhood.
* * *
It appeared that the place was formerly
tenanted by a moody, melancholy foreigner named
Casey, who was employed as shepherd. Casey—or
“ Mick,” as he was familiarly called—started in life
with a fair average of cheerfulness and good teeth,
but had long since lost both—the former through
contact with the world, and the latter through a
row ho had with a tram-car. He had been a soldier,
and passed many a hard night in the trenches
before Sebastopol. His patriotism, however,
like that of many others, was sorely tried
by the sharp Crimean frosts, and so, on
the declaration of peace, he obtained his
discharge, and started for New South Wales.
Landing in Sydney, full of bitterness and weevilly
biscuits, ho secured a situation ns bullock-driver
at Bangalore, the station where Gillooley was em-
ployed, and was subsequently promoted to be
shepherd. But, as was previously observed, his
cheerfulness had departed. Even his reasoning
faculties had been undermined. He did not appear
to take the same interest in things, or reason them
out as he had done, when, returning from the
Crimea, and observing the anchor of the Great
Eastern, ho remarked: “ Divil a toe farther I’ll go
till 1 see the man that uses that pick.”
• • •
While quartered in his little hut, a long
way from the head station, he kept severely to
himself, and never hung out a sign to invite pass-
ing tramps to a night’s board and shelter. But
they came his way, notwithstanding; and as he
received them as pleasantly as the Imperial Cabinet
received the news of the annexation of New
Guinea, he soon got the name of being a miser
and a misanthrope. So things went on, until the
night of the first of April, eighteen hundred and
some time ago, when a knock came to the door.
* ♦ *
It was a wild night. Mick also was wild.
The new moon, with the old one in its arms, had
just projected its left-hand horn over a bank of
cloud, as thick as John Davies’ speech when he
hoard the late verdict. The knock was repeated
in a manner that puzzled Casey, who was sitting
up in bed, as to whether it came from a rhinoceros
or a pile-driver. “ Bedad," said he bitterly, us he
felt for his pantaloons, “ I didn’t think thim
thrara-cars ’ud purshue me this far. I suppose
they want this last tooth o’ mine, blast thim.” The
third time the knock was repeated. “ Faith," said
Mick, “ there must bo two lugines, an’ they’re tak-
in’ it turn about.”
• * •
Having satisfied conventional require-
ments by adjusting his dress, he lit a caddie and
went for the door, oust placing an axe behind it so
as to be handy in case of a misunderstanding. On
opening the door a swagman stepped into the room
and asked for a pannikin of Hour and a night’s lodg-
ing. He was tired and wet, and thinking his request
would be gladly complied with, casually remarked
“ You sleep a bit sound, mate.” “ Why didn’t you
knock?” asked Mick, with fine irony. “If you
ever come this way agin, bring a tew sthlcks o’
dynamite wid you.” The stranger looked puzzled,
and Casey continued, “ I’ve no place here for
loafers; go to the head station, and don’t come
bothering me.” Hot words ensued, and, seeing
Mick sidling towards the axe, ti e tramp stepped
quickly outside, and returned in an Instant with a
circular saw he carried with him to do odd Jobs
tor the squatters. Ho was the more active of the
two, and poor Mick was soon reduced to about
half his proper size. Still he fought bravely on,
until the stranger, by a dexterous back-hander,
removed the best part of his spine, and hung it up
on a nail behind the door. Then, as Mick’s life
gave out, he gave in, and commenced spitting
blood—always a bad sign. Straightening himself
as well as he could after his grievous loss, he
simply remarked, “You’ve got me backbone, but
me money’s all right.” Then he sat down on the
handle of his axe and expired.
• • *
Like the veiled prophet of Khorassan,
Casey was dead, but his spirit walked abroad, and
appeared to possess in an intensified form all the
disagreeable characteristics of its earth-life. At
Vi every night (so the station hands said) the
ghastly tragedy was rehearsed in pantomime, and,
consequently, the hut was tabooed and shunned.
• • •
Young Fred. Hatton listened to this story
with ill-concealed nervousness. He was of a
thoughtful introspective temperament, especially
after gin and water; and in earlier and happier
years had often loitered among the long-drawn
aisles of his native city's cathedral thinking un-
utterable things. He was visibly affected on part-
ing from Gillooley. But, as he proceeded on his
Journey, the bracing bush air dispelled the weird
fancies to which he had given way. He was just
about to put his band in his pocket for some
tobacco, when a largo drop of rain foil on it, and,
looking up, ho saw that the sky, so clear when ho
started in the morning, was now overcast with
dark threatening clouds containing enough elec-
tricity to run a ferry-boat.
• •
Now, if this tale were being written for the
London Journal or the Family Herald, it could
be spun out from Patrick’s Day to America. But
this is not our way. What we go for is plain, un-
deniable fact—facts that appeal at once to the
reasoning powers of the most superficial. Therein
came down in torrents, and the young man, spying
a hut in the distance, made for shelter. As the
elemental war showed no signs of abatement, he
made up his mind to pass the night where he was.
Having eaten some tinned lobster and said his
prayers, ho hung up his clothes on the floor, and
was soon wandering once more through the plea-
sant meadows of his distant English home, pluck-
ing primroses and listening to the lark’s matutinal
carol.
♦ * *
But hark f What is that noise that causes
him to sit up in bed with blanched face and staring
eyes, listening with an attention as concentrated
as that of the larrikin when waiting for the war-
ders to conduct him to the triangles ? It was a
sound to cow the stoutest—a dull, uncanny noise,
resembling that made by a coffin walking upstairs.
Holton was brave, but of what avail was bravery
in a case like this ? Again the sound was repeated
—this time in a mournful, minor, inexpressibly
touching key, like the soughing of the wind
among tombstones.
• » •
Finding that things could not remain as
they were, Holton got up, struck a light, and with
the energy of despair dashed against a mouldy
door leading into a small room, from which the
sounds appeared to proceed. There, in the form
of a moribund sheep, he discovered the cause of
all the trouble. “So,” said he, with pardonable
pride—“This, or something like it, is the whole
secret of Casey’s ghost. I wonder how many
similar tales could be traced to causes no less ridi-
culous." Fred, slept soundly during the remainder
of the night, continued his journey next day, ac
quired in a year the necessary colonial experience,
became prosperous, converted a black gin, mar-
ried her, and is now the happy parent of a boy with
a mouth resembling the person whose epitai h in-
formed the world that:—
“ John Thomas Robinson lies here—
He had a mouth from ear to ear—
Reader, tread lightly on the sod.
For if he gapes you re gone, by .”
N.B.—The hut Holton slept in was not Casey’s at
all, so that a fresh experience is in store for the
fortunate discoverer of the late Michael's mansion.
All previous fast passages across the
Atlantic between New York and Queenstown, Ire-
land, have been eclipsed by the crack Guion line
steamer Alaska, which arrived May 6, having made
the trip in 6d. 23h. 46min„ thus beating her former
best passage, which was the fastest recorded—7d.
Ih. 50min., In June of last year.
On 5th inst. Miss Pratt and Mr. King (son
of Canon King) became man and wife. Wedding
at St. John’s Church, the Revs. Ware and Dunstau
officiating. Four bridesmaids, tastefully attired;
the bride wore green brocaded satin, rather a de-
parture from the stereotyped white. Dance in the
evening at Mr. Pratt’s, which was kept up till day-
light.
Charles Mitchell, the English champion
Sugilist, and Billy Madden boxed at Washington,
i.C., on May 12 and 19 to crowded houses. On May
28 and 29 Madden and Mitchell boxed at Levantine’s
in Albany, N.Y, The theatre was packed on both
occasions. Mitchell says: “ I have promised to give
Mike Cleary another chance to box me, and I pro-
pose to do so, but I should like to have another
show with Sullivan first.” Sullivan says: ‘‘After
Mitchell boxes Cleary, I will give him another
trial.”
Says “Flaneur” : “ John L. Sullivan has
again proved himself the biggest hitter of the day.
It is nonsense to talk about his being only a man of
a moment, and over-estimated, if he has not
proved himself the hardest hitter of modern times,
what is proof V Twelve thousand men assembled
at Madison Square Garden, and every man was an
enthusiast. There was not a swell club in New
York but was represented by several hundred
members, and gentlemen in the most fashionable
attire stood shoulder to shoulder and arm to arm
with pickpockets, blackguards, plug-uglies, bur-
flars, and bums. The beat of humour prevailed,
was in a box with four friends (it was meant to
hold live), when seven burly bruisers from the
slums came in. We looked at them—but we only
locked. The most villainous of the lot stepped in
front of me, and totally obscured the ring and at
least nine thousand people. I told him I couldn’t
see through him, and he looked at me with com-
miseration for a short time, and then abruptly sat
down on my knee, and put his arm around my
shoulder. This was not affection exactly ; it was
the result of experience, and, on the whole, rather
a clever scheme. I thought of throwing him over
the edge of the box once or twice, but concluded
that I had rather hold 250 lb. on my knee than be
sent home in an ambulance. Therefore, I put my
arm gently around his wais‘, and handed him a
cigar. He proved himself a thorough-bred. He was
a ticket-of-leave man from England, and had seen
every tight on the other side prior to his departure,
and was well versed in lighting-lore. He contlded
to me in the course of his disjointed dialogue that
he was a "good’un” himself. The amount of
culture shown by the audience was remarkable.
I mean culture in the art of lighting. There was
scarcely a man in the place who didn’t know
exactly what good sparring was. When the
champion, Sullivan, came into the ring, which, by
the way, was a platform six feet high and surround-
ed by ropes, he was greeted by wild huzzas.
Mitchell’s welcome was no less enthusiastic. There
was a general desire to give the little fellow fair
play. Ho jumped up on the stage with a confident
air, and advanced to the big champion smiling.
His physique is admirable, but he is nothing to
Sullivan. When Sullivan got up and walked over
to his corner of the ring the man on my knee
trembled violently all over, and gave me an awful
whack on the back, and roared at the top of his
lungs “ ’E is the most beautiful being God ever
made.” That summed it up. You can look at
Sullivan for a week and find absolutely no fault in
his build. He is as perfectly proportioned as a
Greekgod. His limbs are as round as a woman’s,
and his movement; are as graceful as a cat’s. It is
only when his back is turned that a realization of
his terrific strength is forced upon one. Before
that you look upon him more as a thing of beauty
than a terrible tighter. When his back is turned to
you, and he raises one of his arms, you see at once
where his tremendous strength lies. His muscles
lead over from his shoulder and run down to the
pit of his back in massive whip-cords. When he
raises his hand or clenches his fist, the whole vast
muscular structure of his shoulder moves. The
thought at once occurs to one at this point that it
is not healthful to stand in front of Sullivan. He
is forty pounds the heavier, yet, it did not seem
that Mitchell was such an Inferior match; he was
iu splendid form ; has tremendous loins and
shoulders, and a deep chest. During the first round,
Mitchell got in a very heavy body blow, and the
champion slipped over. That sent his blood up :
with the stealthy step of a panther, with chin for-
ward, brows knitted and eyes half closed, he follow-
ed his retreating opponent round. Mitchell was
about six feet from the ropes on one side of the
stage when Sullivan suddenly let out with his left
hand and struck him a heavy blow on the breast.
Mitchell threw up both arms to ward off the blow,
but in doing so he left his body and neck unpro-
tected. Then it was that Sullivan's terrible right
arm came into play. While both Mitchell’s hands
were up in the air, and he was still staggering from
the force of the blow, Sullivan’s right came up
with terrific violence in a semi-circular under cut,
and caught the Englishman on the neck, just be-
low the chin. I never saw such a terrific blow in
my life. Mitchell, who had been staggering, rose
from the stage as though blown from a mortar, and
shot over backward. He was literally knocked off
his feet. He struck on the ropes, and fell head
foremost into the crowed below. Half the people
thought he was killed. There was a hush for a
minute, and nothing could be heard in the Garden
but the terrible panting of the man who had struck
the blow. Then Mitchell was shoved up on the
stage, an Instant later the people burst forth
with terrific cheers, which made the Garden ring.
Again the doughty little Englishman came up be-
fore the Boston champion, but again he was
knocked spinning before he could put himself to-
gether. So badly was he used up, that in the mid-
dle of the third round Captain williams sprang up-
on the stage, with his club in his hand, and dragged
Sullivan off Mitchell. At this point Mitchell was
lying backward over the ropes and Sullivan had
fallen upon him. Tnat ended the show.’
“Credo,” an asinine contributor to the
goody goody C. of E. Record, thus brays his de-
light at, perhaps, the most bigoted action ever
taken by the House of Commons, to wit, the rejec-
tion of the Affirmation Bill :—“ Never, in our day.
has such a Hallelujah-chorus rung out over the
land as that which lias burst forth from hearts and
voices since the result of the division on the
Affirmation Bill was made known. Who can doubt
the working of God the Holy Ghost upon the
spirits of the brave phalanx in the House of Com-
mons, who stood so steadfastly true to their pur-
pose, bearing tor these three years past the brunt of
opposition, and meeting surprises whi h might
have betrayed them into surrender, with a promp-
uess of courage and decision that never failed of
success ; who, together with those noble men who
sacrificed the traditions of party politics to obey
the higher orders of the Lord of heaven and earth,
cannot miss of the promised blessing, • Them that
honour mo I will honour.’ ” Bung!
Here are some prodigious lies by Chiniquy,
the saponaceous humbug with the head of an ape
and the feet of a dancing-master, who used to
stand on Sydney platforms in the presence of a lot
of other paunchy bigots, and say; “ My kyin freus,
I vill now hoodress > ou on zo soobject of ze con-
fession”:—“ How can 1 tell you my joy when, after
my second address in Exeter Hall, three Roman
Catholics came to shake hands with me in the pre-
sence of many, and said with tears of joy: ‘Now
we see the light, and w« understand the errors of
the Church of Rome.’ But the very next week my
joy was not less when one of the most venerable
Episcopal ministers of Loudon came to tell me, ‘Do
you remember that old gentleman with his white
hair, who was just before you when you were
speaking in our large hall? He is a wealthy and
very influential man, enjoying the confidence of
all by the stern honesty—i.e., C.M.G.-ism—of
his conduct, but unfortunately a couple of years
ago he fell into the hands of Ritualists, who very
soon poisoned his religious mind with the subtle
poison of their half-concealed Popish doctrines and
practices, so much so that ho determined to give
up his position in our Church in order to sub-
mit himself to the Pope. All my efforts to
prevent him taking that unfortunate step were
of no avail, and next week was chosen to
make his public recantation; it was then that he
heard you were to give us a public course of
lectures on Romanism, and he determined to come
and hear you. The Lord evidently guided your
thoughts and your words for the salvation of that
honest and intelligent man. The first person I met
when back at my parsonage after this lecture was
that dear old friend of mine. He threw himself
into my arms (too fuddled to stand?) and, with
burning tears of joy, said, • Help me to bless the
Lord; I now understand the mummeries and
idolatries of Rome. By the grace of God nothing
will any more shake my faith in the glorious Gospel
truths which our heroic ancestors (fellow never
had a grandfather) have bought for us at the price
of their blood,’ and the rest of the night (Bosh!)
was spent by him and me in blessing God tor the
admirable and so sudden change just wrought in
this heart.” Now, these statements—on the face
of them — are such blundering tarradiddles,
that the wonder is how sensible people can
be gulled by them : and yet thousands are
so gulled to the keeping in the comfort of
greasiness and broadcloth of a sleek bigot,
from whose false slobber, Doming libera me!
HIS EXPERIENCES.
Our Artist having received a few effects from New York, is much impressed by the
promptitude and security afforded by Sydney wharfage arrangements.
Lawyer and Client.
It will be readily understood that we don’t by any
means fall in with the views of the miscreant who
wrote the subjoined and sent it to us for publica-
tion:—
A metrical jingle, suggested to the author on reading,
hg the glare of the Mount Hope Copper Mining
Co.'s smelting furnaces, the Bulletin’s com-
ments on the Anderson-Fair fax libel case, the
writer having a vivid recollection of the Clontar >
libel action,
“Faciliadecensus Averni; sed revoegre Gradum.”
—Virgil.
“Qui fecit per alit; fecit per se.”— Legal
Maxim.
Pale and aghast, a lawyer’s ghost,abashed, arrived
at Hell, , ...
The devil received it at the door, with “Sir, I
hope you’re well;
You’re very welcome o’er the Styx, my greeting is
sincere, „ , , ,
Others a warm reception meet, you 11 find a hot one
here. , . ■
Your supper, sir, be pleased to choose. Imp, bring
the ‘ bill of fare,’ .
Doubtless its reading will amuse; our dainties all
are rare.
Bat pie we have, of which, in hell, a better ne er
was baked,
'Tis seasoned well with hornets’ stings, its crust is
lime unslaked;
A glorious frlcandeau of toads our larder also
boasts,
We’ve scorpions boiled with luscious newts, lead
broth and brimstone toasts.
“ Then, as for drinks, we’ve liquid brass, through
all our realms of note.
Better in hell was never brewed to scald a lawyer’s
throat.
What, sir, d’ye find your stomach full ? do you not
like our cheer ?
Perhaps you wish to go to bed; our bedroom is
quite near;
But here you must not hope to find a quiet sleeping
berth,
That comfort, you’ll remember well, you had ere
you left eaith;
Your clients Wore the ones on whom the hard-borne
burdens foil,
For when you had (hem in your power, you gave
them “ little hell ” —
Long anxious hours and sleepless nights those
luckless mortals passed,
And you, the cause of all their care, are here
hell at last.”
He spoke no more, but strode along, his trembling
pris ner cowed;
He turned about and grimly smiled, and then he
laughed aloud;
He shook with nervous energy the cowering bully’s
frame,
And in that densely crowded place not one voice
cried out “ Shame!”
Then, halting at a furnace mouth, whence issued
sulph’rous blaze,
He held him, and with greatest joy, beheld his
dread amaze;
Then spurned his stern, pitchforked him in, and
quickly dropped the door,
The attendant devils clapped their hands to hear
the lawyer roar.
MORAL.
Lawyers may have their way on earth, and work
their purpose fell,
But let them rest assured that they can’t fool old
Nick in hell.
PIKKA KAPHAX.
Mount Hope, July 3,1883.


Hotel
CORNER CASTLEREAGH & BATHURST
STREETS, SYDNEY.
JAMES SHARP,
Late of the Collonnado Hotel, corner of King and
Castlereagh Street*, desires to inform his friends
and the public generally, that he has removed to
the above Hotel, which has been lately known as
the “ Hyde Park Hotel,” and which ne has tho-
roughly renovated. J. S. trusts that, by his usual
strict attention to business, combined with the best
brands of Wines, Spirits, &o., to merit a fair share
of patronage. J. S. desires to state that he still
draws the famous
“SILVER CUP BEER."
ktS8^CUifev%^oil
33 COLLEGE STREET. HYDE PARK, SYDNEY,
ARTIFICAL TEETH on the most approved Eng-
lish Principles, Fitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastica-
tion, Natural Appearance, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping, Scaling, and Extractions skilfully
performed.
MaSCOTTE consultations.
METROPOLITAN, & MELBOURNE CUP, 1883.
Metropolitan, 5000 shares at 10s. each ... £3500
Melbourne Cup, 10,000 shares at 10a. each £6000
SYDNEY.
Metropolitan Stakes.
MELBOURNE.
Cup.
1st Horse ... £3000
2nd „ ... 1000
3rd 500
Starters .„ 200
Non-starters... 300
Prize Gifts ... 1000
£3500 £6000
Prospectus on application.
The La Mascotte Company thanks the public for
their support in previous consultations, and hopes
for a continuance of their patronage for this pro-
gramme.
Application, by letter only.
Applicants please state for which event.
D. LINDO,
Box 733, P.O.;
And Eastway’s Hotel, King-street, Sydney.
03000 on MELBOURNE CUP.
oW 1883.
The Third Consultation of my 1883 Series.
“AUSTRALASIA” SWEEP.
13,000 Shares, at 5s each.—An even 4, £1.
First Horse
Second Horse ..
Third Horse
Starters divide ..
Non-Starers
Total. £2000.
£1000
500
250
150
100
Prizes at £26—£260
., 10- 500
„ 6-250
£1000
_ Grand total, £8000
The success of former events induces mo to an-
nounce the next on the Melbourne Cup, the
greatest racing event of the year, as above.
Results advertised in leading papers, and for-
warded to all subscribers. A pound secures four
chances— not one only. Ten per cent, is deducted
for all expenses. Applicants are requested to en-
close notes, P.O.O., or crossed cheques (to which
exchange must be added), and 4d. stamps for reply
and result. Register letters.
Address-” AUSTRALASIA,”
Care of Mr. H. J. FRANKLIN,
Printer and Publisher,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
I A M 0 N D.’
LBOURNE CUP CONSULTATION 1883.
Capital £10,000 in 30,000 Shares of 10 shillings each
DISTRIBUTED AS FOLLOWS:-
Application by stamp, to
Care of O. Sehletllch,
Watchmaker and Jeweller,
17 Little Collius-stroet East, Melbourne,
(Near Colonial Bank.)
Prizes paid one day after drawing, and Horses
paid two days after event.
Result slips posted to each Subscriber, and also
advertised in daily and weekly papers. Shares sent
per return post. Prospectus on application.
Letters containing cash should be registered.
If country cheques, must bear exchange.
N.B.—“ Diamond,” in thanking numerous clients
for their support in previous successful racing
seasons, invites their co-operation in the above.
£3000 For 2s. fid. £3000
A COLOSSAL FORTUNE for HALF-A-CROWN
The “ GREAT VICTORY ” SWEEP on the MEL-
BOURNE CUP, 1883.
To be Run on the 6th November.
This Gigantic Sweep, offering advantages to the
public never before attempted, is the property of
a bond fide Company with responsible directors.
CAPITAL: £1(5,000, divided into 80,000 Shares of
2s. 6d. each.
Also, over 1000 Prizes guaranteed, and distributed
as follows:—
1st horse ..
2nd horse ..
3rd horse ..
Starters divide
Non-starters do.
20 Prizes at £50
£3000
1000
500
500
250
1000
40 Prizes at £35 ..£1000
100
300
750
do.
do.
do.
1000
1000
750
Total..
..£10,000
Not less
We shall send 9 tickets for a pound.
-than 2 sent to any single address. Send P, O. order,
cheques, or bank notes. If stamps are sent, add
exchange at the rate of Is. in the pound. Should
coin be sent, register letter. Please send 3d. extra
for membership.
The drawing will take place on the 1st November,
and will be conducted by a committee of 150 Share-
holders drawn from the entire body. The result
will be posted to all Shareholders immediately,
and adveitised throughout the colonies.
Tickets sent by return post.
Write at once for prospectus. No charge.
Address-" VICTORY,"
Care of George Robertson, 04 Bourke-street,
Next Opera Bouse, Melbourne,
Fosier ’s Bugle Brand.
ASK FOR
CShiakcg!
»
gT' LATE
JAMES WALKER
EDINBURGH
M
Registered
*
+■
*0
*
Ctx / s h e .5
JO be had from ALL WINE AND SPIRIT ME R-
. CHANTS, and WHOLESALE from the
SOLE AGENTS:
JOSEPH BOYD & SON,
1 CHANGE ALLEY, PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Near the Circular Quay).
To be procured In Cases, Casks, Octaves, and Jars
tST* Please read Certificates of its purity ; also.
Certificates from the 43nd Royal Highland Regi-
ment, “THE BLACK WATCH,” and the 71st High
land Light Infantry, &c., &c„ as supplied them hv
JAMES WALKER, for 14 years, till nis death, an I
still supplied to them by JAMES HADDOW & C<
the purchasers of James Walker’s business, with
the right to use his name on all Labels, Invoices,
Seals, and his Trade marks and symbols.
Notice—The above label registered.
JOSEPH BOYD & SON.
WRIGHT, HEATON & GO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE :
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.8.W.:
Northern District, N.S.W.t
Morpeth Brewarrlna
tiunnedah Tam worth
Narrabri Uralla
Walgett
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Liwii
Brisbane Yeulba
Roma Cambooya
Dalby
Central Linei
Rockhampton Capella
Bogantungan Comet
Emerald
Northern Line:
Townsville Ravenswood Junction
Charters Towers
Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M CULLOCH & CO., LIMITED.
W Agencies In all parts of the world.
UMBRELLAS
RECOVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY,
and
Have yourU mbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly
outed.
AMD
CHEST AFFECTIONS
ALL
NO
D. & R. BRADFORD,
Ironfounders, General
Blacksmiths, &c.,
“CITY FOUNDRY,”
121 LIVERPOOL STREET,
and at
801 ELIZABETH STREET,
Between Bathurst and Park Streets.
All kinds of Ornamental Castings, "Wrought Iron
Palisadings, Wrought and Cast Iron Girders, Cast
Iron Water Pipes, Connections, Water and Fire
Plugs.
Estimates given for all kinds of Ironwork, Ac.
IRKER, GREER, & CO., DISTILLERS
BELFAST and GLASGOW.
LOCH DHU, very oldest and purest Scotch
Whiskey.
SHAMROCK, very oldest and purest Irish
Whiskey,
Won 4 Gold Medals and Australian Exhibitions.
Government Analyst says: Unusually pure,
mellow, and well-matured.
FROM ALL SPIRIT MERCHANTS.
Agent; G. ADAMS,
119 Pitt-st., Sydney, and Flinders-st., Melbournne
THE CRITERION,’’
15 Royal Arcade 15.
FIRST-CLASS LUNCHEON and REFRESHMENT
ROOMS for LADIES and GENTLEMEN.
The comfort of Ladies has been especially attended
to. An ELEGANTLY-FURNISHED APARTMENT
has been set aside for their sole use. It will be
supplied with writing materials, dally papers,
journals, &c., &c.
Gentlemen in town can obtain, AT ALL HOURS,
COLD LUNCHEONS—Ham, Beef, Tongue, Sar-
dines, Salads, Hard-boiled Eggs, &c., &c.
Cup of Tea or Coffee, with Light Refreshment.
6d.: equal in every respect to the celebrated
“ cklTBRION ” BUFFET, LONDON,
Celebrated American Iced Drinks.
EDWARD MAWBY,
Proprietor.
BLEND
m w]
[trade]
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.—This is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, corn-
lining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
if taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Vgents. _
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TJarLd.erta3ser,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
JOHN DANKS.
IMPORTER OF
Mes ail Tricycles
AND ALL THE NECESSARY
Fittings for same,
363 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Hill
nil!
LU
&
(m
m
aiiM
m
i
§
'Ulllilimy
W*l
i©
Jaaswti
m
■jSSajS
i sm
f i
jnjW
GENUINE EXTRA
STOUT.
BASS PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ys in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &e.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STHFE'!.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
TO CONNOTSEURS of WHISKEY & BRANDY.
W. & A. Gilley’s CASTLE BRAND WHIS-
KEY and L’OR EXTRAIT BRANDY are the
oldest and purest spirits imported.
TUCKER & CO., Agents,
377 George-street.
HUST’S BOOT EMPORIUM, 404 George St.,
near King-street.
Gents’ Boots, French Calf or Kid, superior quality,
from 10s. 6d.
Superior Ladies’ Extra High Glace Kid Button
Boots, superior quality, from 10s. 6d.
Ladies’ Evening Shoes, a great variety, from 4s. 6d.
JU ELBOURNE CUP, 1883
LEVIATHAN “ ADAMASTOR ” COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £30,000 in 40,000 SHARES of 10s Each.
634 PRIZES (more or less), £13,750 for STARS,
and £7350 for HORSES.
Plan of Astronomical Distribution:
First Horse (winner of the Melbourne Cup)... £3000
Second Horse 1500
Third Horse 750
Starters (divide) 800
Non-starters (do) 1300
V First Star £3000 V
V Second Star 1000 V
*** Third Star 500 ***
13 stars of £300 each, 100 stars of £100 each, SO
stars of £50 each, 20 stars of £40 each, 45 stars of £25
%ach, 100 towns of £10 each, 300 towns of £8 each,
8o towns of £6 each, and “ the comet ” £40.
“ Adamastor,” in thanking his subscribers for the
liberal support that he has received from them for
the past three years, and in consequence of the
yearly increase of subscribers, finds it necessary to
double his programme, which he begs herewith to
submit.
All parties are requested to forward drafts, P.O.
orders, or cheques; if cheques, exchange must be
added, and in all cases postage fees; if cash, to
register letter. Application by letter only, ad-
dressed—
“ADAMASTOR,” care of L. A. Pereira, 34
Bourke-street, west, Melbourne; Box 473, G.P.O.,
Sydney; and Little’s Bass Hotel, corner Pitt and
Market Streets, Sydney.
P.8.—Results sent to country shareholders, and
published in Thb Australasian, Age, and Sydney
Tow and Country,


On Thursday, June 21, a novelty was intro-
duced into South Australia, in the shape of a
ladies’ hunt, the hounds of the Adelaide Hunt
Club being taken out specially for the purpose.
Lady Robinson and other ladies rode all through
the hunt to the death.
John Bright, speaking at the annual meet-
! ing of the Liberation Society, was very “scurrilous”
i in a lot of his remarks. He pointed out that a
; few years before he was born “a bill was in the
, House of Lords, the object of which was to enact
, that henceforth the punishment of death should
not be inflicted on persons who committed rob-
j beries, which we should call now petty larceny, in
i a shop or a house, of the value of 5s. Well, that
bill was rejected by the House of Lords by a
majority of 31 to 11, and of the majority of 31 six
were bishops, and one an archbishop.” Next he
dwelt on the fact that “ there were added 156 now
j crimes to which capital punishment was at-
tached. Now, during all these years, as far as this
question goes, our Government was becoming
more cruel and more barbarous; and we did not
find, and have not found, although the Church of
England had its 15,000 or 20,000 ministers, and its
more than a score of bishops, in the House of
Lords, that a voice was raised or an organisation
formed in favour of a more merciful code, or in
condemnation of the enormous cruelty which out-
law was continually inflicting. Was not Voltaire
justillod in saying that the English wore the only
people who murdered by law ?” Then, on the
subject of the war against the Egyptian people, he
referred to the Primate’s letter conveying the form
of thanksgiving for the massacre at Tel-el-Kebir:
“ In the letter he (the Archbishop) spoke in this
manner—* Mourning as wo do for those who have
fallen for their country.’ Well, we all mourn, I
hope, for those who have fallen for their country.
But this Christian minister apparently had not In
his mind at all that ten Egyptians fell for every
one Englishman (cheers). ... I come now to
the words of the prayer, and that is what I ask you
to consider for the moment. I have wished I
could have avoided mentioning this on this occa-
sion, but I feel that it would bo an abandonment
of duty if I let this opportunity pass without ex-
pressing to you some of the feeling which this
matter excited in my mind. The ancient heathen
poet—lam not sure whether the most ancient of
them all, and who dealt a good deal in narratives
of war—said: ‘Unhallowed is the voice of loud
thanksgiving over slaughtered men.’ And, if that
could bo said some thousands of years ago by a
heathen writer, at least wo might expect some
little consideration from a dignitary of a Christian
Church in this century of the Christian era (cheers).
These wore the words to which I wished to call
your attention. In the prayer he says, and this
was sent round to all the churches—I know some
cases, I have hoard of them, in which the clergy-
men were too much shocked to permit it to be
read—he said, addressing the Supreme Ruler:
* Teach us to see that Thy hand hath done it, that
Thou wast in the midst of our camp to deliver us,
and to give up our enemies before us.’ You see
what this is put in plain words, that Ironclad ships,
bursting shells, a blazing town, the roar of artillery,
the charge of bayonets, the ghastly heaps of the
mangled and the dead—these were the manifesta-
tions of the hand of the God of mercy ” (cries of
“Shame.”) John Bright is a “disloyal” and
“scurrilous” man.
This is apropos of nothing. There arc still
lots of fat frauds preaching the gospel and
humping round the plate. One ugly humbug
who visited Sydney, say ten years ago, only
became prominent exactly in the same way
as did the murderer and informer, Carey—
because of his apostaey. It would be simply im-
possible, on physiological and psychological
grounds, fora human being of his constitution to
be a sincere religionist. Such entities as he should
never be allowed to preach any gospel from any
pulpit—or, for the matter of that, to walk the
streets without being muzzled. It is they who
make the fanatics, who keep Orangeism, ali ve and
help to make the priests fat. What poor physiog-
nomists people are! This community, during the
last few years—during the last few months oven—
has witnessed the unmasking of several posturing
hypocrites, to utter a word against whoso public or
private character would, before the scoundrels
were bowled out, have boon high treason and
sacrilege combined. Now, every man whoso
heart-strings are not twined round the grip of the
holy associations and secret societies, spits on
their effigies and feels sick at the very mention of
their names. Yet we measured these men up to a
quarter-inch the very first time our eyes fell on
them. Wo are proud that no adulatory line concern-
ing any one of them over appeared in The Bulletin
—not oven when all the other papers in the colony
fawned on them and stroked them down and men-
tioned them as people of importance. Look here.
If a man has a big mouth and thick lips and spider
legs and a heavy jaw and a low forehead and hands
and feet like those of a gorilla and aboriginal ears
and a huge paunch and glassy eyes and gammons
that he’s holy, don’t you believe him. Don’t you
accept him as the representative of Divine Provi-
dence, or as the accredited agent of the Deity.
That he shaves his upper lip, and that his face
shines like blazes doesn't make him a bit better.
His grossness may be constitutional, and not the
result of intemperance, you may say. Well then,
wo reply, the man who is gross without being in-
temperate is a derned sight worse, and not fit to
be a minister of the gospel. Read this:—“Atan
inquest on the body of a mgn who died of diseased
lungs and chronic dyspepsia, the surgeon explained
that the growth of teetotalism had occasioned
quite a now set of post-mortem indications. The
surgeon said:— ‘ I find the liver large as a rule, and
the stomach much distended, arising from the ab-
sorption of a great quantity of lluid. It is, of
course, a fact that teetotallers do absorb much
more drink than others, particularly effervescing
drinks, which have a tendency to distend the
stomach, and they also eat much more meat than
drinking men, and oat more generally, which will
account for the large livers and distended sto-
machs.’ ”
‘‘ I don’t see no points in that cow,” said a
man in the Homebush cattle yards, last week. And
immediately after she lifted him over the fence.
Tourist: “I say, guard, does this train
stop at Clyde platform?” “Guard: “No, sir
leastways, not unless Mr. Hudson travels in it.” ’
At Raymond Terrace, in a 150 yards’ race
for £20 aside, between Sutton and Jennings, the
latter, who gained three yards at the start, kept
his advantage to the end of the distance, which was
run in 16hj3ec. The Terrace people are asking who
“Jennings ” really is.
Advice to the Ladies of New Guinea.
AN ECHO FROM QUEENSLAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You must wear the shortest dresses,
Spare divided skirts and few;
Cut and fringe those long black tresses,
Queensland ladies always do.
Speak in tones a little louder,
And those olive cheeks taboo;
Use the new msthetic powder,
Queensland ladies always do.
Cover both your arms with bangles,
Hiding all that rude tattoo:
Leave your seals and watch to dangle,
Queensland ladies always do.
Wear a pretty silken stocking,
And the neatest little shoe;
Show your ankles, that’s not shocking!
Queensland ladies always do.
Now then, off to business.
Thinks he is rid of me, Eh! We shall see.
Hang it all, there’s the boat!
This is hard lines, but I’ll be even with
him yet.
Heels you think too high for walking,
We know that as well as you;
Rest awhile—’tis no use talking—
Queensland ladies always do.
No I you mustn’t hide your pocket;
Keep your purse exposed to view;
Wear around your neck a locket,
Queensland ladles always do.
Ornament your dress with pulling,
Ah! you needn’t look so blue;
But, where Nature lacks, use stuffing,
Queensland ladies always do.
Spend your time in playing tennis.
Children must with nursemaids go;
Dear mo, ah! 1 see yonr’o blushing,
Queensland ladies don’t, you know.
You must learn to glance and ogle,
Hold your fan and racket so;
Dresses are not made l or stooping,
Queensland ladies don’t, you know.
Study high art, balls, and operas,
Rural life is very low;
N®ver dance quadrilles or polkas,
<Qpeepeland ladies don’t, you know.
Always half a dozen lovers.
One or two will bore you so;
Never mind their stupid feelings,
Queensland ladies don’t, you know.
When your second season’s over,
Wed the richest swain and go
Round the world, don’t rest contented,
Queensland ladies don't, you know.
If your husba-'d doesn’t please you,
And you think him quiet or slow,
Don’t forego your little pleasures,
Queensland ladies don’t, you know.
Cultivate your tastes icsthetic.
Visit “ Rome ” and “ Monaco;”
Never spare your husband’s money,
Queensland ladies don’t, you know.
V. P.
Confound the cur! Didn’t know he was follow-
ing—Go back!
Just in time! Dash that our! he almost made
me miss it, but thank heaven, he can’t follow
now.
In more absorbing topics,
the dog was soon for-
gotten.
Why is it that stones always seem to be riveted
fast when you want to throw one at a dog ?
Ha ha! I’ve got here ahead of the boat, I shall slip
round to the ofliee and give master a surprise.
GO BACK!
Anyhow, I have frightened him so that ho won’t trouble
me any more.
Couldn’t he though !
Well, I never ! ! * * !
