

THE BULLETIN
VoL 1.—No. 13.—New Series
SATURDAY, AUGUST 11, 1883.
Price—6d.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 11, 1883.
The Chief Injustice
Hxs Honor the Chief Justice of this colony
is undeserving of the credit due to a great
law reforme-. But that he will ere long be
instrumental in bringing about very con-
siderable reforms, we fully anticipate. That
the reward of merit should not be allotted
to him will be entirely due to the circum-
stance that, if reforms be attributable to
him, they will be so in the same sense as the
cause of temperance is served by an “ awful
example.” Sir James Martin is hastening
valuable definitions quite against his own
intention. By giving to the existing laws
the interpretations most repugnant to the
sense of justice which is inherent in human
nature, and which are most suited to inflict
injury upon society, His Honor will proba-
bly manage to create a determination, that
if the law of.libel be really such a mischiev-
ous thing as he—while apparently quite
satisfied with it—interprets it to be, it shall
be modified forthwith. It would be difficult
to conceive anything more pernicious than
the law of libel as interpreted and approved
by Sir James Martin, and illustrated by
the case of Andbrson versus Fairfax. We
need not go far outside of His Honor’s own
language, in stating his reasons for refusing
the defendants a new trial, for a demonstra-
tion of our meaning. W© quote the Chief
Justice’s own words;
" I am not now dealing with the merits of the
ease, but I have no hesitation in expressing my
opinion that, in the publication of this report, and
the steps which the defendants took for the pur-
pose of making these inquiries, they not only dis-
charged a public duty, but rendered a great public
service.”
Now, th© plea which His Honor had under
his consideration was that these defendants,
who had not only discharged a public duty,
but had rendered a public service, having
been, as the result of legal proceedings,
punished by a flue of £450 and all the costs
(amounting to perhaps eight times as much),
had not received justice, and should be
granted a new trial. His Honor had under
consideration the alleged fact that, while the
defendants were discharging that public
duty and rendering that public service which
he Moribed to them, they incidentally in.
flieted a personal and private injury upon
the plaintiff, Anderson, by ascribing to him
malpractices which were not proven, in ad-
dition to malpractices which were proven.
» * *
Hu Honor decided that the ends of justice
had been, in view of these circumstances,
accomplished by those who discharged the
public duty and rendered the great public
service being made to pay the doer of some
malpractices a large sum of money, and to
defray all his and their own expenses. To
His Honor’s disciplined intelligence it ap-
peared that, as between plaintiff and de-
fendant, and also—which is incomparably
the more important issue—as between the
parties and the commonwealth, that result
was just, and should abide. The defend-
ants had submitted a claim to be regarded
as especially privileged with respect to the
matters which formed the subject of conten-
tion, inasmuch they had been invited to
•addle in them. His Honor was not content
merely to refuse endorsement to this claim
under the special circumstances : he w.nt
out of his way to express his sentiments
about any privileges being allowed to
journalists more than to any other member
of the public. In this, it is our distinguished
fortuiu* to be very nearly in harmony with
fhe Justice. With, however, a differ-
ence. Sir James strongly contended that
not only had journalists no privilege more
than the rest of the public on the occasion,
but that the circumstances disclosed no
privilege to any one. We, on the other
hand, venture to affirm that Hie circum-
stances were such as conferred a privilege on
any man. We will waive, for the present,
consideration of the question whether the
public Press is, or should be, by the nature
of its functions and its relation to the public
generally, invested with special immunities
when exercising its office honestly, with
reasonable competency, and in good faith.
And we will defer dealing with the point
whether the invitation to report constituted
a special privilege to report unfavourable as
well as favourable observations and impres-
sions. These considerations narrow the signi-
ficance of the inquiry.
• # •
We take the broad ground that, under
similar circumstances, any person was privi-
leged. The main features of the case were
these: — A person visits an institution
supported chiefly by the contributions
of the benevolent, and for which mone-
tary support was constantly solicited. He
discovers that the place is not what it
pretends to be; that in many respects there
are negligences and deviations from the
representations made to induce people to
subscribe, which showed that a system of
imposture was being practised. He sees
enough to convince him that the public
benevolence and credulity had been, and is
being, abused; and on questioning inmates
of the institution, he receives information
corroborative of what he has already as
certained by his own observation. Follow-
ing up the clue, he questions a former
inmate, and receives more information,
again corroborative of and in harmony
with what he had gathered. And he makes
public his observations and deductions by
the best means available to him. We say
it matters not a whit whether he was a
journalist, and made the public Press the
vehicle of his remarks, or whether he was
not connected with the Press and without
any public station. The knowledge he had
acquired carried with it a duty to society.
Society has a claim upon every one of its
members for service and protection. A man
is not relieved from a moral obligation to
give information, if he chance to overhear a
plot to rob a house, because he is not a con-
stable. It is his duty to do so. And
similarly if it chance to come to any man’s
knowledge that a concern which the public
is solicited to support is an imposture, it
becomes his duty to make the fraud widely
known. And if he discharges that duty
with honest purpose, and with reasonable
discretion, we affirm he is privileged. And
if the law does not so provide, the law is in
that respect imperfect and bad, and it be-
comes the duty of a capable Judge when
administering it either so to interpret it, or,
if precluded from so interpreting it, to
declare its defectiveness, and point out that
justice is impeded by a law which should be
mended.
* ♦ *
But, as a matter of fact, Sir James Martin
was not precluded by any intractability of
an enactment from interpreting the law in
accordance with the interests of justice.
It required on his part a striking exertion of
absolute perversity, of a peculiarly arrogant
complexion, to twist the interpretation of
the law so that it should go counter to jus-
tice and public polity. The law had been
interpreted so as to conform to these essen-
tials, in the plainest and most definite terms,
by no less an authority than the present
Lord Chief Justice of Englaud; and that
interpretation has been pressed upon Sir
James Martin’s attention. The following
are the essential passages. Lord Chief Jus-
tice Cockburn said
“ Under that head of defence, he (the defendant)
says that it was a matter of public Interest and
public concern; that the plaintiff, by his adver-
tisements, invited people to submit to his system
of treatment; and that If he, the defendant, really
believed it to be a delusion, then ho had a right to
maintain that it was so; and that even if, in draw-
ing Inferences of imposture and bad intention, he
fell into error, yet if he wrote honestly, and with
the intention of exercising his vocation as a public
writer fairly and with reasonable moderation and
Judgment, he is entitled to the verdict. And I
entirely agree in that view. Here is a man chal-
lenging public criticism by bringing forward what
professes to be a new system of treatment, and in-
viting the public to adopt it as the only means
of curing the most destructive disease known
among us. In doing this he challenges public
criticism, and if a public writer, using a rea-
sonable degree of temper and moderation, ns
behoves any one who makes imputations upon
others—if a public writer, thus discussing the
subject in the exercise of his vocation, falls
into error as to the facts or the inferences, and goes
beyond the limits of strict truth, he is, neverthe-
less, privileged. The occasion is a privileged one,
and if the privilege is exercised honestly, faith-
fully, and with reasonable regard as to what truth
and Justice require, then, though he may exceed
the limits of what he can legally prove to be the
truth, he is protected from liability. It is not,
therefore, necessary that the justiiication should
appear to you to be made out, if you think that
the defendant, or the writer, was in the reasonable
and honest exercise of his vocation as a public
writer, even although he was not fully warranted
in drawing the Inferences he did as to the conduct
of the plaintiff, and though it may be that he was
not entirely Justified by the absolute truth.”
To most persons, as to ourselves, that ruling
will appear to establish an admirable and
most essential harmony between the letter
of the law and the exigencies of justice.
But, from some cause, Sir James Martin’s
sense is so warped that he not only cannot
appreciate that harmony, but bounds off at a
tangent to invite an extraordinary contrast
betwixt the value of his legal opinions and
those of the Lord Chief Justice of England.
Sir James Martin is a clever man; but he
must have allowed the adulations of syco-
phants to turn his head, if he imagines that,
because he is Chief Justice of one out of
many scores of British colonies, each of
which has a little Chief Justice of its own,
his abilities are for a moment comparable
with those of the first lawyer in the British
Empire. And it must be moonstruck fantasy
which would induce so inconsiderable a man
to imagine that his opinion will be preferred
in an instance when, to the minds of or-
dinary people, it must seem that the judg-
ment of the Lord Chief Justice strengthens
that right of free and honest discussion upon
which liberty is so largely founded, while
his antagonistic views cannot but appear,
apart from such a trying comparison, as
unfortunate aberrations, destructive to ause-
ful “privilege,” and inimical to the well-
being of society.
* * *
Sir J ames Martin does indeed support his
antagonism to the Lord Chief Justice, by
sundry other authorities. But it happens,
unfortunately for his reputation, that not
one of the precedents he quotes are parallel
with the case in point. His Honor quoted
the opinions of eminent Judges in three
separate cases, viz., M'Pherson v. Daniels;
Campbell, v. Spottiswoode ; and W atkin
v. Hall. In the first, the defendants failed to
PROFESSOR CHARLES BADHAM,
Sydney University.
[From a Photo, by J. Hubert Newman.]


substantiate any part of their allegations.
They sought to escape a verdict by pleading
that they had merely repeated what they had
been told. That plea was disallowed—under
the circumstances, most properly disallowed.
In the second case, again the defendant
entirely failed to substantiate his allegation,
and pleaded that he had published it in good
faith believing it to be true. And that plea
was rejected. Most properly, under the
circumstances, we again say. In the third
case referred to by our Chief Justice,
the defendant also failed to substanti-
ate auy part of • his allegations, and
pleaded that he merely published what
was common rumour. And that plea
was thrown out. Again most properly.
But now note the difference in the case of
Anderson v. Fairfax, with which bir
Jambs Martin was dealing. In this case
the defendants proved their main allegation.
The leading statements published by them
were effectual in, according to Sir James
himself, “rendering a great public service.”
They failed only to substantiate a few minor
aud secondary details, which the obvious
accuracy of their impressions with respect to
the essential and principal items of their
investigations had justified them in reason-
ably believing to be probably as true as
the rest.
• • •
In every one of the instances quoted by
Hir James Martin, the refusal to accept the
defendant’s pleas was accompanied by
particular qualifications. The eminent
Judges who presided were especially careful
to define the grounds upon which such pleas
might be admissable. Thus, in the first
cited case, Mr. Justice Litti/edave, as
quoted by Sir James Martin himself, said;—
constitute a defence, therefore, to
such an action, where the publication of the
slander is not intended to bo denied, the defendant
must negative the charge of malice (which in its
legal sense denotes a wrongful act done intention-
ally without just cause or excuse), or show that
the plaintiff is not entitled to recover damages. It
is competent to a defendant, upon the general
issue, to show that the words were not spoken
maliciously ; by proving that they wore spoken on
an occasion, or under circumstances, which the
law, on grounds of public policy, allows, as in the
course of a parliamentary or judicial proceeding,
or in giving the character of a servant.”
Sir James Martin qualified this assertiou,
by pointing out that our (colonial) law is
different from that, as a defendant must
show that his publication was for the public
benefit. But as, according to Sir James
himself, the publication was, taken on its
merits, effectual in doing a great public
service, the distinction he pointed out is, of
course, obliterated. The distinction between
the case the Chief Justice had to consider and
those which he adduced as bearing upon it,
may be conveniently demonstrated by appro-
priating an illustration employed by him-
self. “ Persons might have thieves in-
troduced into their houses unless,” said Sir
James, “ statements made for the protection
of individuals were privileged.” Just so,
and persons might have begging impostors
constantly bleeding them at their houses
unless statements made for the protection
of society were privileged. No one would
pretend that there would be auy privilege
were one person to report of another that
the latter had broken into a house and
plundered it, and had used false keys, when
the person so aspersed had neither broken
into a house, nor plundered, nor used false
keys at all. It would be no sufficient defence
that the person who went round warning
the neighbourhood had believed all he as-
serted, or was such a fool or so short-
sighted that he had not noticed that the
person was admitted to the house by the
occupant, and only brought out what was
given to him. But, suppose it were true that
the accused had really broken into the
house and plundered it, would it be in the
interests of society that the person who
spread the facts as a warning should, when
indicted for libel, be mulct in heavy damages
and all the costs, because he could not also
prove that the robber had used false keys ?
If his eyesight had deceived him in that
respect, or he had been told by a third party
that the keys were used, he was fairly
justified, considering what he absolutely
knew of his own observation, in giving
credit to the additional detail, which was
but in keeping with the rest. However, Sir
James Martin’s law stands good until some
such imbecile as the Chief Justice of England,
whose judgment he so despises, decides
otherwise. And we have no hesitation in
saying that we believe the decision of the
Court in the case of Anderson v. Fairfax
will be received with unbounded appro-
bation by every scoundrel who makes it his
business to impose or prey by smart devices
upon the community.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Send them Back!
At the very moment when the united, voice of
the Australian colonies sounds a strong protest
against the French auth oritles for permitting the
scum of their penal establishments to flow upon
our coasts, and peremptory appeal is being made
to the Imperial Government to protect us from
this infliction at any cost, it is not a little shocking
to discover that those same Imperial authorities
have been simultaneous!,' doing, on their own
behoof, the very thing which we have asked them
to prevent others from doing. There is no lan-
guage which has been employed to characterise
the unfriendly nature of the French proceed-
ings, which is not applicable with doubled force
to the Home Authorities. One can accept
a stab from a stranger with philosophy, as be-
ing quite within the bounds of possible incident.
But when the stroke is dealt from a quarter
whence professions of friendship and affection
have been abundant, the natural sense of justice
is outraged, and one resents the treason quite as
much as one feels the blow. It is not strange,
Indeed, but it is revolting, to observe that the
8. M. Herald, which commented on the action or
inaction of the French authorities, with Jingo
emphasis, calms down into a whiningly apologetic
tone when to injury a disclosure of hypocrisy Is
added by the Imperial authorities. The surrepti-
tious dispatch of Irish murderers to these colonies
is an act of Infamy. The necessity which urged
their exile, pursues them wherever they go. If in
a settled and populous country like England their
lives would not bo safe, how could it be
expected that they would find safety in a
new and scattered community, where the re-
straints of authority are necessarily imperfect?
These men bear on their brows the brand of Cain,
trebly impressed. They participated in the murder
of officials; they gave their confederates to the
hangman; and, above all, they strangled the
liberties of their country. But for them, and such
as they, Ireland might now have been enjoying a
measure of freedom won by the constitutional
efforts ef the Parnells and Redmonds, and other
heroes of the moderate party. Triply murderers
and traitors, the certain doom of these felons dogs
them on land and sea. Should they fall here, the
shame will bo ours. Fated wretches, lot them die
where they have lived. Let the scene of their crimes
be the place of their immolation. Let the country
which drove such brutes to the mad-dog con-
dition, or the community from whence they
sprang, bear the shame to the end. These
are no criminals of Australian manufacture.
In our free land, there are—thank God—no such
traditions of oppression, no such nurture in hate,
that men are debased to the condition of wild
beasts. To protect murderers and in/ormers from
the vengeance of their fellow-criminals is, there-
fore, no duty of ours. Lot the dead bury their
dead. England must boar her own burdens, and
jarring castes expiate their own crimes. There is
only ono thing worthy to be done. Ship the
scoundrels back to the scoundrels who sent them,
with an unmistakable message of determination
to Englishmen, from Englishmen beyond the seas.
Liberty's Palladium.
Grand anomaly ! Glorious, mysterious, admir-
able shield of our Liberties! Palladium and pride
of the Constitution! Ought we not all bend our
knees before Thee, and do we not ? The intelligent
jury by whom Riley, ex-detective, was first tried
last week for compounding a felony, ought to be the
everlasting glory of all Britons —ought to be
quoted as the twelve choicest examples of their
precious species. After much consultation, they
returned to Court, and, telling the Judge that there
was no likelihood they would agree, they emphati-
cally stated in the very same breath that the
object which constituted the felony (a gold pin)
had, “in their unanimous opinion,” never been
stolen! Penetrating Judge! Wonderful twelve!
They decided that no felony had been committed,
and then they were locked up for the night, and
ultimately discharged because they could not
agree as to whether it had been compounded! We
propose that the jury system of N.8.W. bo altered
at once. We propose that in future all criminals
be tried by twelve conger eels, or twelve
or a dozen bullfrogs. It is true that the Kilby
jury were not without their good points. They
were polite. On their release, they most courte-
ously thanked the Sheriff's officers for the consider-
ation with which they had been treated. An
accused man might object to be tried by twelve
glue-headed persons who weren’t polished and
graceful In their comportment; but ho couldn't
possibly demur to the noble twelve who, in so
dignified a style, thanked the Sheriff for the warm-
ness of his blankets, the strength of his tea, and
the SOYER-like flavour of his pork sausages. Happy
New South Wales! The Liberty of the Press in
the clutch of a nightman! The liberties of ex-
detectives and people in general in the hands of—
whom V
James Carey.
“Fob undaunted I lived and undaunted I’ll die,”
was the delimit answer of the “United Irishman”
of ’98 as he stood In the dock and saw before him
the packed jury, the unsympathetic bar, and the
merciless judge. It is impossible for anyone in
whom there is a spark of manhood to repress ad-
miration for men of his class, however we condemn
their objects. They, like Ivan Roussakofp and
Sophie Pebovsky, the killers of the Czar, seal
their political faith with their lives. There is a
difference not of degree only but of kind between
them and the “Invinclblos” of to-day. Maddened by
misrule, they engaged in a hopeless struggle—on
one sidepovei’ty, limited numbers, wild aspirations
fed by the French successes which were astonish-
ing Europe, and causing the passing away of the
old order of things before the genius and artillery
of le petit CapcrraL— on the other, wealth, numbers,
discipline, and a settled Government of hundreds
of years. Well, from the ’98 men to Cabey and
bis mob, is an eighty-four years’ step in time, and a
millennium in crime. As the trial progressed in
that far-away Irish Court-house, and as the de-
tails of one of the foulest of modern political
murders were brought gradually to light, there
ran through English-speaking people the world
over a thrill of indignation to think that the
arch-conspirator and informer, James Carey,
would cheat the hangman. He did cheat him, only
to tiud a more agonizing death. In these colonies,
where no religious or political disabilities, real or
sentimental, exist, colonies separated by a hemi-
sphere from that ominous restlessness charac-
terising European society to-day, wo cannot even
faintly realize the fierce joy which must have
seized the Irish people on hearing of Carey’s
assassination. Murderer, traitor, informer,
coward, all rolled into one, he lies in his unhonoured
South African grave—his lullaby a nation’s curses.
As for his murderer, O’Donnell, it requires no
exceptional discernment to see that, whether
hanged or not, ho will for years displace even ST.
Patrick in the popular Imagination. After 700
years of Government (?) from London, things are
even yet just a little “mixed” in Ireland.
A Masterful Device.
In the course of his reply to the now historic
deputation of Mittagong bigots, who wanted him
to remove a Public School teacher because he was
“a Papist,” the Hon. G. H. Reid said: “ . . . But
there was one point in which a change should be
made. He heard that one of the pupil teachers
was the daughter of one of the inspectors, and
this was objectionable on official grounds. Ho
thought some change should be made. It might
bo hard that this pupil teacher should be separated
from her parents and sent to another school, but
the difficulty might bo got over by appointing
another inspector at Mittagong.” How gratifying,
in this hard and depraved age, it is to see a man in
an exalted position actuated by such humane con-
siderations when dealing with his humblest sub-
ordinates! This tenderness of feeling is equalled
only by the fertility of r 'source which suggested
such an easy and satisfactory way of getting over
the difficulty. Trifling emergencies of this kind
often show the gigantic intellect with as much
certainty as an appalling crisis. You are quite
right, noble sir! Doubtless it would lacerate the
poor young creature dreadfully to separate her
from her parents. It should be much less painful
to separate the parents from her. The old people,
probably, have bad to undergo greater hardships—
whether or not, maturer years will enable them to
bear the privation more philosophically. Every
conscientious student of history remembers the
anecdote so pithily related in Com. de Bee. Gal.
Erat ut supra miles; but for the benefit of members
of Parliament, school Boards, &c., we translate:—
“ There was, as we have before remarked, a certain
Milesian in the tenth legion who, while in winter
quarters, did certainly almost play the eternal
devil with the discipline of that legion, by com-
plaining with incredible frequency and acerbity
concerning the shortness of the army blanket; but
one day, when more exasperated than usual, he
exclaimed in his barbarous tongue, ‘Hades and
condemnation to it fur a blankit I I ve been
cuttin’ sthrips av the top and stitchin’ ’em on to
the bottom av id fur the last fortnight, and divil a
wan inch longer it is.’ Then there was a great
clamour and laughter amongst the soldiers; after
which dissatisfaction left them and cheerfulness
returned, tor, said they, ‘we have no cause for
complaint, this Milesian Is a fool.’ ” If anybody
chooses to see any similarity between the method
adopted by the Milesian to get over his difficulty
and that—-but, there!
Brimstone and Cauliflowers.
To lino a man three-and-six because he won't go
to Heaven when he dies, is surely the climax of
absurdity. Yet this is precisely the rationale of
the proceeding against the six Chinamen who
were prosecuted last week by Police Inspector
Waters, Fid. Def. It is perfectly certain that
Chinamen, being pagans, will all go to Hell and
suffer the most fiendish tortures to all eternity.
A beneficent Creator has thus ordained. And when
a race is thus comprehensively damned, it must be
admitted that the pains of its members cannot
begin too soon. As a Christian nation, it behoves
us to fall in with the designs of Providence, and
to do whatever is possible within our limited powers
to work out the decrees revealed to us. It is, there-
fore, quite ridiculous that such puny and petty
measures as fining men three-and-six should be
resorted to. What is throe-and-six when viewed
in relation to eternal damnation ? if it be incum-
bent upon us at all to take the heathen in hand,
and start a penal system which shall either save
them by conversion or commence their eternal
sufferings, we should do it handsomely. It is not
reasonable to expect that even a Chinaman’s con_
science will bo so profoundly exercised by depril
vation of three-and-six that lie will recognise the
hopelessness of his spiritual condition and embrace
the saving grace of the Gospel. Even Jews have
resisted deprivation of their entire “ monish,” and
of their complete sot of teeth. And, when the
arrangement has been worked the other way, and,
in lieu of piling a money-fine on to the pains of
never-dying flames, overtures have been made to
add cash premiums to the Joys of Heaven, the
meanest and most needy Jew has insisted upon a
good deal more than three-and-six. We do not think
there is a instance on record of a Jew having
accepted eternal life with less than a ten-pun’-note
thrown in to boot. Hence, it is a reasonable infer-
ence that three-and-six will not have an effectual
or abiding influence with an already wholly
damned Chinaman—or, for the matter of that, with
a lost European. If the line old system of religious
persecution is to be revived, it will have to be done
handsomely, or no good results can be expected.
At present, it is the misfortune of the age that the
living generation conceives itself wiser and more
tolerant than its forefathers and Charles II. But
there are some excellent souls, whose virtue it is to
be intellectually quite in sympathy with the
people of three hundred years ago. They should
have lived then. Now they are unappreciated A
conceited modern generation is frivolous enough
to scoff at them ; and even we ourselves, despite
the appreciation which may have been perceived
in what we have written, are not quite satisfied
with them. We should like them to date a little
further back-say to the days of Henry VIII. and
Bloody Mary. If we had our own way, we would
have none of these three-and-sixpenny prosecu-
tions. We would rout up all these lost souls who
sell oranges on Sunday ; run down the fated
barbers who scrape off stubbly beards on that day;
arrest everyone who does not attend a church be-
longing to the same denomination as that to
which the pious Inspector Waters pertains. And
having secured all these wretches, we would try
what the thumbscrews and rack would do for
their souls ; and should they prove obdurate
despite these blandishments, we w.ould crack
their marrow-bones with the fire-tongs, steep
them in kerosene, and roast them to death.
Our plan is made venerable by antiquity,
in a much higher degree than Mr. Waters’,
j and is conceived in exactly the same spirit. Three-
and-six I Faugh! Give us the stake and faggot.
The Christian and His Coat.
Next to stealing' a coat, the most dangerous thing
in Sydney is to accept one as a present. One man
asked another, an utter s'ranger, fora shilling a
few days ago. “ I've no money,” was the answer:
“but you can take ray coat and sell it.” He took
it. So did a lynx-eyed constable, with the wearer
inside it. The latter toed the lino for having i n
his possession an article “ reasonably suspected to
be stolen.” We shall, however, wade into it a
little. Suppose, then, that a man, by underhand
means, obtained possession of land he knew the
Government would have to resume at an immense
advance In price; or suppose that an ignorant, but
cunning and unscrupulous, person, by pandering
to the prejudices, vanities, or interests of others
equally Ignorant, though less cunning, managed
to obtain jewellery and position at home, and a
patent of nobility from beyond the sea ; or,
lastly, suppose that, to curry favour with certain
classes, an individual who, a few years ago. was
found shouldering a musket in the ranks of Free-
trade and Freethought, was seen to-day reviling
both—could these people be said to be in possession
of articles “reasonably suspected to bo stolenV”
These are a few, and a few only, of the questions
suggested by this singular case. The story told
by the prisoner was so laughably incredible that
the magistrate refused to accept it until the man
who gave away the garment was produced, and
swore to his present. The donor had been caught
putting into practice the counsel preached from a
hill in Palestine nearly two thousand years ago;
and, of the few hundred millions of his fellows who
expect eternal happiness through following the
same counse', there probably could not be found
a dozen who would not think him a lunatic : —
“ In the serenely sinful days of old,
Christ spoke with Jewish doctors, we are told;
But now on earth were he once more enticed,
Our Christian doctors would not speak to
Christ. ’’
The “Herald ” on Higinbotham.
It was in the Scots Church, Melbourne, last week,
that Mr. Justice Higinhotham gave a discourse
on “Science and the Christian Churches.” The
lecture itself throw no fresh light on the matter.
Most readers of Mini-, Draper, and Spencer
(leaving out altogether the great sceptics of the
latter half of the 18th century), have step by step
been driven to the conclusion that, between
Modern Science and Theology (whether ancient or
modern) there runs a gu If impossible to be bridged.
The whence? and the whither? of Carlyle were
asked long before the shepherd astronomers of
six thousand years ago wondered at the waxing
and waning moon. And the knowledge we have
on the subject to-day is just what they had—no-
thing. Beyond the certainty that he is a mere atom
held on by a peculiar force to the outside of a ball
wobbling through space, the wisest man knows
nothing. But it is not on this aspect of the subject
tt at we desire to dwell. It is not upon the fact
that on these matters the opinion of Hodge at the
plough possesses just the same value as those of
all the theologians and scientists from the time
when Origen settled Celscs, and the Chris-
tians scraped Hypatia to death with oyster-
shells, to Leo XIII. and Tyndall, that we wish
to linger. What we would Invite attention
to is the fact that in the principal Presbyterian
Church in the principal city in the Southern
Hemisphere, a Judge of the Supremo Court of
Victoria delivered before an assemblage of people
supposed to believe in the Westminster Confession
a lecture whose key-note was that, since Apostolic
times, the Churches have been sinking deeper and
deeper into error. They all are wrong now.
Justice Higinhotham told an immense audience
so in their own church, and their cheers could be
heard far down the street. The clergy will pro-
bably take the matter up, but the newspapers have
been before them. The S. M. Herald has a
leader on the subject, which forcibly suggests the
saying of the person halting between two opinions:
“God is good and the Devil’s not bad.”—“If an
inquiry were made it might be found that in many
instances the desire for change is weaker in the
laity than in the clergy. Although ecclesiastical
reform sometimes begins with the laity, it some-
times begins with the clergy. .. The question is one
of very grave moment,” &c., &c. AVhen one wades
through a column of this, the thought naturally
arises—" How could a successful libel suit be in-
stituted against such a journal ?” Alas, that in the
vast majority of cases, the “ Press ’’—the foremost
of modern educational agents—should bend so
abjectly before the idol—“ Willing to wound, and
yet afraid to strike.” N'impbrte. The cheers of
the Collins-street audience have been heard in
Sydney. Hurrah!
Lord and Lady Rosebery are about to visit
Australia. But they aren’t “ illustrious ” visitors,
as the S. M. Herald dubs them. Lord Rose-
bery runs racehorses, and held a minor office
in the Government, but he has never in all
his life done anything to render him “ illustrious”
—unless managing to marry his present wife, one
of the Rothschilds, be held to entitle one to that
epithet. This being a democratic country, let us
drop the “illustrious,” so far as applying it to
mere title and money-bags is concerned. Otway,
the poet, author of “ Venice Preserved,” who
choked to death while “ wolfing ” a loaf of bread,
after a spell of starvation—attributable to his not
having married a Rothschild— was illustrious. But
he wasn’t “respectable.” Lord Rosebery may be a
respectable man, but he certainly isn’t illustrious.
It’s curious how prone dull fellows are to the
mutual admiration business—how they imagine by
dubbing each other “illustrious” they will all
come to be considered so.
The Judges have refused to grant a fresh trial in
the case of Anderson v. Fairfax. But the
matter by no means ends here. Not only is the
trial refused, but the publishers of the Herald
have to appear and show cause why they should
not be committed for contempt. The final result
will be looked for with the closest interest, not
alone by the Press of Now South Wales, but by
that of all Australia. In this colony the lines
dividing legitimate comment from “ libel ’’ on the
one hand, and “contempt” on the other, bear a
good deal of resemblance to the bar of a New Zea-
and harbour: you find yourself bumping against
them when they are supposed to be a|loog way off*


Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bod-time.
1ST PURE RUM,
Extra Strong 1 ,
6s. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Singlt Eottls Department,
C. w. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET,
where you can obtain for
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler.
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome of all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELI8H WHISKY,
6s. per bottle.
V E R DEI L H O,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINK,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
MARKET STREET
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
Market Street, Sydney.
The Rates of Subscription 10 The Bulletin
are—For one year, 34a.: hal f year, 13s.; quarter, 6s
The Advertising Rate? arc 5s. per Inch;
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, os follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: Fov 36 consecutive insertions,
15 per cent.: For 53 consecutive insertions, 35 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for a Item a (»• ««• intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
on Saturday night, at the Temper-
TflE Hall, to discuss the subject of Local Self-
8006 ment, was one of the most significant yet
G ° TerU the colony. And not the least significant
h« ld m was the character of the gathering. Mem-
featurc p arllamen t, and the familiar coterie of
politicians, were conspicuously absent.
p , very satisfactory. The Inauguration of a
**2 avst em of Local Self-Government would be
8011(1 1 of extinction for a considerable proportion
members who, under existing conditions,
° f tD turned to Parliament. The man whose talents
• re . re the direction of petty intrigue and vulgar
116 bounding of minute interests would be wiped
e0 ® | P Representative. Facility in promising, art
knowing what promises to keep, and which to
10 It and unprincipled pertinacity in urging the
brt ’ of a locality, without reference to the
WaD nries of the State as a whole, would no longer
overwhelming qualifications for public life,
hf road-and-bridgo member would find his oc-
ThG tion gone, and there would be at least room
cUP ?„ np that his place would be supplied by men
Planter intellectual calibre and superior self-
°f nect. I* 19 cheering, indeed, to perceive a new
rCSPt rtlire in politics-men who do not make a
dep . of professions coming to the front to work
ta principle. The Local Government Associa-
°U has begun earnestly. It is working in a right
tion Its members appear to be free from
dl |f-seeking motives. These are all titles to public
Countenance and support, and. with perseverance,
will doubtless secure both.
•‘What school is that exercising?” said a lately-
turned Anglo-Indian to a distinguished officer at
Aldershot. “Why, that’s the old 3rd Buffs,” the
officer answered, with a tinge of sadness. Those
w ho have seen the weedy lads who now fill the
ranks in our infantry, filled by stalwart men some
rs ago, will appreciate the naturalness of the
nuestlon and the sorrow attending the answer.
And now it is stated by the home papers that
things are not nearly at their worst yet. In the Lords
and Commons, the other day, the fact that the
Army was from 6000 to 8000 below its proper num-
ber was elicited from the Ministry. The method
no w proposed and adopted for the purpose of
curing the defect Is to lower the standard under
5f t 4in. It will be instructive to see a British
regiment of infantry in a couple of years. Of
course, it may be said that, owing ts the extra-
ordinary improvement in modern arras, it matters
little whether a man is four feet or six—a rifle
bullet will render either hors dc combat. But
it is not with lead alone that modern bat-
tles are decided. Marching powers, capacity
to bear fatigue, and to be ready for action
after a weary tramp are quite as important.
Fancy the fighting capacity of a regiment of raw,
undersized lads, after a twenty-mile march I And
imagine, further, what a show they would have if
by any chance a regiment of seasoned men or a
squadron of cavalry got amongst them! Think of
a corps of Zulus falling foul of theml No, Mr.
Boll, your short service system has not been
nearly the success you think, and now, when
every man among your neighbours across the
stream there it trained to arms, and when no one
on earth knows how ironclads will come out of a
big scrimmage, don’t you think it about time to
adopt some means for training and disciplining
the flower of the nation as well as the dregs, if
only as a stand-by, in view of a naval accident,
which is always on the cards ? “ Volunteers,” did
I hear you say ? Well, yes; they would, no doubt,
fight well, as all Englishmen do, for the matter of
that; but, in the first place, their number is insig-
nificant when compared with the groat Continental
armies, and, in the next place (this cannot be too
soon taken to heart, mon ami), the nation that in
those days relies on a purely voluntary force is
courting a disaster worse than Salamis, Sadowa
and Sedan rolled into one.
It is worth referring to again—the Barrington
affiliation case. Miss B. fell under the curse, and
swore one Penrose was the father. He swore he
was not, and produced a number of men to back
him up. She stuck to her oath, and found a troop
of women to solemnly asseverate that the onus of
paternity lay with Penrose. Direct proof in these
eases is, of course, out of the question, and so the
ladies have nearly always the best of it. The
present was an exception, and the affair was dis-
missed. The girl now confesses her perjury, and
i« sent home to her father. In future, every
magistrate in the land should remember this affair
before adjudicating on a case of affiliation.
Hitherto, whether supported by evidence or
not, the woman’s word has, in nine cases
out of ten, been taken. There are many Pen-
kuses in the country who have not been so
fortunate as this one, but who are now support-
ing children not of their blood. As the law stands
—or, rather, as it is customarily administered—
any smart lady can pick and choose the unfortun-
ate whom she will “ trouble” to support the result
of her amours. Should it happen to be a married
man on whom her choice falls, he will not unfre-
quently “ante up ” Just to keep matters quiet.
He knows that his charitable neighbours get their
tongues weli wedged in their cheeks when he pro-
tests his innocence, and that, to her dying day, his
wife thinks there is “ something in it.” And now
what—what will the authorities do with Miss B— ?
Messrs. Crampton and Bruce have removed
to 281 George-street. opposite Hunter-street. The
nrm have secured two floors, and the music shop
oa the ground floor is very compact; whilst the
snow room on the first floor is a magnificent com-
modious room, where the German pianos (which
are the only ones kept) may he heard to the great-
est »d vantage. The Smith organs, so favourably
««)wn, are for sale by Messrs. Crampton and
flruce only,
PEPPER AND SALT.
The conference of delegates from the
school boards of Victoria, which met lately in
Melbourne, discussed some rather ticklish ques-
tions. It seems that the wives of schoolmasters
are in the habit of applying: for a month’s leave of
absence about every two years. This is very
wrong of them, no doubt, and the conference
debated various ways of stopping it. Throughout
the whole of the debate, however, an auctioneer
from the Goulburn Valley persisted in demanding
“ information on the point." “ Why is woman to
have a privilege that man hasn't? Men have
every bit as much reason .to claim a month every
two years as women has. Tees may laugh, but I
moves for a splcial commission to sit on these
women, mcself to be wan of the spioials.” It was
only when he got back to Mooroopna that the
illustrious Jack M‘Kinney obtained the informa-
tion ho required
Arrah, Jack, me boy, ye’ve got back, me boy,
To yer grog and tobacco and bids,
And now ye know why these things is so,
For the women, ye see, has the kids.
We are glad we are not titled aristocrats.
And we have had such chances, too ! Why, we
might have been a Commander of Michael and
George, with a star on our breast like a piebald
pony by this time, if we had chosen. But we didn’t
choose,’ because we were stiff in the knees. Now
we begin to And out the wisdom of our preference
for plain plebship. We don’t have to pretend to
be heartbroken with grief when our uncle by the
mother-in-law’s side, whom we never saw and
never wanted to see, takes it into his absurd old
head to go and die. But we should have had to do
this if we had unwisely chosen to be Royal
Highnesses or anything of that sort. Just think!
The Prince and Princess of Saxe-Meiningen—a
territory that might be put in a mignonette-box —
were in Englana on a pleasure tour a short time
ago, and were just going to the State Ball and had
made arrangements to be present at Ascot, when
the mother of Prince Albrecht of Prussia went and
died, and spoilt the whole thing. This was
decidedly unwise of the old lady, but perhaps
she knew that her decease would never have been
regretted if she died at any other time. For our
own part, we have been accustomed to fun when
our relatives have died. We recollect the time
when Uncie Peter turned his face to the wall.
There was tobacco, and there were candles, and
. there was a keg of whisky, and . [That will do.
Recollect you are now in a Christian country,
where whisky is live shillings a bottle, and bad at
that.—Ed. B.J
o •
The Rum calls the Rev. Mr. Jefferis
“chairman of committees” of the Newsboys’ Bri-
gade. They’ll be calling "Garden Honey” a
produce reporter next. By the way, Roseby’s in
ft, and the kids are to have a reading-room, with
draughts, and chess, and it is to be essayed to pro-
mote amongst the boys an esprit dc corps. They
are to wear a badge, too, and to be encouraged to
attend the same churches as their parents. The
esprit <le corps pretty well broke us up, after the
chess causing us to dimple into a sarcastic smile.
But the churches ! Why, what games do news-
boys care about but “heading ’em,” and, when
they play, doesn’t always the boy who holds the
kip “ ring in ” the tail grey on the mug ? Esprit de
corps! Why, cert’nly ! Just let a boy leave his
BuiiDKTiNS on the window-ledge of our office
while he runs up the lane to pour one last libation
of rum between the lips of his dying parent, and
see how many he will find when he comes
back! Why, they would steal one another's
boots, if they wore any; and if the peculiar
texture of Alfred’s pocket handkerchief was not
mournfully familiar to the “ push,” many’s the
time that distinguished journalist would have to
be taking home to Rose Bay a square yard of sack-
ing. As a matter of fact, these * * office-bearers ” of
the Brigade are more philanthropical visionaries
What, in the name ol Sir James Martin—there's
nothing in this, wo hope!—do they know about
newsboys? Roseby, for instance, whose mil d
scarce soars beyond an epitaph, and Pottie, and
Underwood. Bosh. Boys won’t wear badges, nor
play chess, nor have any esprit de corps ; and they
most certainly won’t go to church, unless they see
an off-chance of robbing the poor-box. No: let
them have the same education old Weller gave
Sam; let them roam about dirty, ragged, and un-
kempt, to improve each shining hour by robbing
blind men’s trays and playing at chuck-farthing
Otherwise how, in sulphur, can anyone expect the
lads to blossom into either members of Parliament
or justices of the peace ?
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“E.K.”: It’s just as awful as when the
printer, on occasion, sets up “shirt” for “skirt,’’
— “Working People”: Decidedly “off-colour.’ r
“ J.E.M.”: Put the matter in this way. If a woman
who is not a wife becomes the mother of a man’s
child, is he not as much morally bound to support
her and the child as if he had gone through what
Washington Irving called “a frigid mummery of
words?" “O.D.”: Your matter is much too
prosy for us. Sent to the wrong Bulletin. You
say, “ Oh ! I’m awful this week!” ¥ou really are,
indeed. Write once more—only once—and let’s
know whether you’re ever anything else—
“B.W.S.”: It may be true, as the N.Z. 'Times as-
sorts, that “never in the records of modern colo-
nisation has any native race received such fair
play from white men as the Maoris have here.”
But betwixt “such fair play” as’the Maori has
received from the white man and such fair play as
the Christian has a right to extend to his fellow
whether white or dark, there is a great difference,
wholly irrespective of the opinions of traders in
popularity. The simple truth is the Maori hasn’t
been treated quite so badly by the white man as
other darkies have been, for the simple reason that
he could and did offer a stronger resistance to
Might “Nomad”; Depends upon quality —
” J.A.” (Parramatta) : Excellent linos, which, how-
ever, for our purposes, lose their value by reason
of their having already been printed — “ W.L.L.”:
Much obliged “Churk" (Melb.): Too profes-
sional a joke. Give it to Dr. Neild, for your
Medical Journal....“Stony BlU”n Will read
and consider “ Barbarian The joke dates from
the river-drift period “Novocastrian Cole-
ridge no doubt was “all there” as a poet, and, in
his latter days, as a “ defender” of the (Anglican)
faith : but we nary set him down for much pump-
kins as a real grit Christian, seeing that he coolly
loft the responsibility of providing for his wife
and kids to his friend Southey. The authority of
such a Skimpolish person on transcendental mat-
ters of belief is, in our opinion, about as valuable
as John Davies’ farthing “ 0. A.P.”: We cannot
answer as to the bona fides of any sweep. “You
pays your money and you takes your chance.” —
“J. M‘M.”: Will read and consider “Avenel”
(Vic.): Write again “Nostra”: You are an ass.
Don’t try to be anything else, and you will live to
a green and stupid old age—“D.A.C.”: Will read
and consider—“Q.B.D.”: To hand—“Onion":
We have not yet had time to read them and
about 500 others....“G.A.W.”: Received ....
“W.S.L.”: We are quite sick of Trickett, Bush,
and Laycock—Laycock v. Trickett, Kush a. Lay-
cock, Trickett v. Kush. We don’t want to see them
now against each other any more. We know what
they can all do —or, if we don’t, that's their fault,
notours “A Bereaved One”: Our heart over-
flows with sympathy for your bereavement, but
we don’t think our readers aie sufficiently inter-
ested in your little Bobby to justify us in publish-
ing the elegy you send us. There are such lots of
little Bobbies dying around us just now that the
thing has begun to get common-place. Unless an
infant is born with a double row of teeth, or an eye
in the middle of his forehead, his decease is re-
garded by the public with dry-eyed callousness in
these times. Apropos of deceased infants, how-
ever, they have a couple of quaint sayings in the
Western States of America—one of which is “ we
can’t always have things lust to please us,” the
other “ you can’t most always sometimes tell.”
Now, a small boy died, and his sorrowing parents
had a tablet put over him, with the inscription
[But never mind what the inscription was.]
“ We can’t always have things just to please us—
Little Johnny’s gone to Jesus.”
A joker, passing that way, paused and added the
following:—
“ You can’t most always sometimes toll—
Perhaps little Johnny’s gone to hell.”
“HappyJack”: Ploasecall — “A.C.”: Very good,
but only mention a few of the best toilets —
“Churck”: Not enough sparkle for the space—
“J. Crowley”: General Williams did not success-
fully defend Kars. He had to accept terms of
capitulation from Mouravieff — “T.M.”: Notour
style ...“Unit”:Paltry ...“J.G.” (Jamberoo):Too
small a matter....” D.A.T.”: Too old now ; why
not send earlier, and be a little discriminating ?—
“ B.B.S.” (Adelaide): Yes, drop a line whenever
you have items “Michenogo”: Nonsense —
“W.H.L.M.”: Out of our line ...” L.J.O.”: Here
is the fact, in plain English; At least half of the
sensational cable items printed by Australian
journals are downright impudent lies—“ W. G.
Bell” (Newcastle): Henry George’s ‘Progress and
Poverty” is not at present procurable in tne
colony, More shame to the booksellers. (3.) We
don’t believe that anybody has authority to
reprint it, The copywrlght, which no doubt
extends to this colony, is of immense value.
We do not undertake to return rejected
communications. Writers should keep copies.
Henry George’s great work, “Progress and
Poverty,” has run through a hundred editions in
America, and in Great Britain more than 50,000
copies have been sold. And yet not a bookseller
in Sydnby has a single copy in stock.
Relentlessly the Morning Rum pursues its
path of gore and orthodoxy. Last Monday it
informed the two ’busmen who read it, that “ a
shocking suicide” (big poster type) had occurred
at Kapunda, where a man had “ripped himself
open ” (two-inch black letter). It went on to say
thaf. John Dawson “ cut his stomach open, and
scattered his entrails about the spot with his own
bands. He then almost severed his head from his
body. The man died.” Wo guess he did, after
piling on severance of the windpipe, vetebrae,
carotid and jugular on top of harikari, or “ happy
despatch,” a pleasant Japanese custom which, we
are delighted to see, has now obtained a firm hold in
Australia. However, It really was necessary tor
the Kum to say that “ he died.” That limited section
of the public which is acquainted with our amusing
little contemporary need scarcely be reminded that
there are some people in the world who can live
without either head or backbone. But not only
in the chamber of horrors department does the
Kum hold undisputed sway. The new editor is a
humorist. He reprints from the Wagga Ad-
vertiser a notice of the Bum’s weekly. The
Advertiser, after stating in effect that it saw the
first number of The Triuune, but that it had not
again cast eyes on t hat literary mummy-box until
about a year after, when another copy, with a
request for a puff attached, came along from the
Bum office, says:—“A preliminary glance at The
Tribune is sufficient to become attached to that
popular weekly journal, and the wider the pro-
prietors distribute specimen copies, the greater
must become their circulation.” Of course. The
more copies you give away, the greater must
become your circulation. We really don’t like to
see a newspaper libelling itself in this stylo.
At last parade of the 1st Regiment N.S.W.
Volunteer Artillery, there were present; Field-
oflicers, 3; staff, 3; captains, 4; subalterns, 7: ser-
geants, 16; buglers, 6; rank and lile, 361; total, 300.
“ Three hundred," suggestive number,
Leonidas recalling
Who made that bold diversion
In old Thermopylae,
Engaging with the Persian
To keep his country free.
With his three hundred waging,
The combat long he fought,
And only throw the sponge up
When to grass they’d all been brought.
On Monday morning a “scrapping” match
for a tenner aside, between two ten-stone aspirants
for llstlc lame, eventuated near Sydney, in tho
presence of a gentleman who but for his injudi-
cious lighting might have held the proud distinc-
tion of champion of England, a well-known light-
ing cabman, and numerous others of tho “fancy”
with not quite such brilliant reputations. The
light was decided in the flrst round, as one of the
pugs struck his opponent over the dexter optio
with his dexterous right, nearly taking his scalp
off. Tho injured one struggled on gamely for
seven rounds, when he threw up tho sponge and
a great deal of claret. His friends arc not satis-
tied with his defeat, as they state his opponent
“ struck him foul ” in the first round, which blow
decided the light, and as soon as he grows a new
scalp they are willing to make another match.
Tho S.M. Herald has, in its last Monday’s
issue, an article on “ A Year’s Crime,” and presents
its readers with some extraordinary statistics.
They are admittedly drawn from official printed
documents, and tho reproduction of false informa-
tion ought therefore perhaps not to be severely
censured. Yet it goes forth to the world morally
vouched for by our contemporary. Few things
have been more apparent to those who have taken
the trouble to Investigate tho matter than that tho
official statistics of the Prison Department have for
years past been inaccurate, deceptive, and worth-
less; and it is more than probable that very shortly
wo will dissect a tow of them. The one quoted by
the Herald is as good an illustration ns any. The
writer says : —“ what is called * prison accommo-
dation’ has been made in this colony for nearly
4000 persons;” and then he produces a copied table,
in which we are told that, among others, Darling-
hurst gaol has 346 ‘separate cells,'and 750 ‘other
cells,’ making a total of 109; Berrlma has 75
‘separate’ and ISO ‘other ’ cells-total, 195: (Joul-
burn, 34 and 106 respectively ; and Young, 43
‘ other ’ cells. It is obvious that the writer, in
collating his report, has omitted to state, what the
official report says, that each gaol can accommo-
date so and so many prisoners in tho thus classi-
fied colls. But the report is no loss deceptive, for
all that. It implies an “accommodation” that does
not exist, and by the enumeration of “separate”
cells, produces the false impression that there
exists in our prison system suen a healthy feature
as a separation, and consequent cessation of moral
corruption, even at night. In point, of fact, Dar-
linghurst has not more than about 43, instead of
346, “separate” cells, and the majority of these
are used for punishment. A portion of each wing
was originally set apart for single cells, but they
are never singly occupied, because of the increase
of tho “population” inside. They have always
three, and sometimes four inmates. Then the total
is set down at 1096, which plainly means individuals
instead of cells. Such a number as that has never
yet been lodged within the walls at any one time,
and unless all the hospitals and tho whole of tho
debtor’s prison were tilled, it could not be done.
As for Berrlma, there are 76 single cells (this being
the separate system, or model, gaol), and three
rooms-no more. The highest number that ever
has been accommodated there is 103, and 180 could
find no room unless the authorities abandoned tho
separate system. Goulburn has 34 single and 34
Instead of 108 other (that 1s treble) cells ; and
Young gaol holds a total, for males and females, of
13, instead of 43, colls. Another mistake made, cal-
culated strongly to misle d, is when tho writer
says “ Peremptory imprisonment absorbed 3338
—a figure running on towards the maximum of our
prison accommodation.” Tho average number of
prisoners under sentence in all the gaols under tho
Prison Department is 1500, and has never yet, at
any one given time, reached 1800.
UTOPIA.
You’re very dirty, very dense;
Your hair is rough, uncouth’s your pose;
You have nor intellect nor sense.
But have a smear upon your nose I
You will not work —you dare not beg—
And all who see you must considdy
You are too grimy to be “ gay,”
And far too ugly to bo “ giddy.
Your nails are black, your teeth are brown,
Topboot-llke is your lanky figure;
Heartbreaking is your “ simple smile,
And torture is your silly snigger.
You get your eight big meals a-day,
Your “state of life” is now most palmy:
No scrubbing any more, for you’re
A Oapting in the Kibbon Harmy.
HIS REWARD.
Through the smoky gloom of a billiard-room
In a popular hotel,
We saw, last night, the features loom
Of a face we once knew well.
Dear! to think what a time it was
Since we saw that face before:
Years and years! We were sad because
Of those vanished years of yore.
He and we, with the world ahead,
Stood at the door of youth—
Ah, perished time when we went to bed
Sober, and told the truth I
Then with clear eyes we looked along
The vista of days to be;
And Hope in our hearts sang a joyous song,
And the sun shone goldenly.
And we dipped our lingers then as we dreamed
Into the web of Fate,
And both drew prizes such as we deemed
Worthy our merits great.
He was to be a bard who would beat
All others—and go alone.
He meant to make Shakspeare obsolete,
And Milton a name unknown.
And he grew his hair for it, night and day,
And ho grew it lank and long,
Till he heard with px-ide the people say
There goes a son of song.
He would stay out at nights to look at the moon,
Till the moon gx - ew pale and dim,
And people said that she would soon
Be afraid to rise lor him.
Odes ? We should smile! He could write you odes
And lyrics by miles and miles.
The newspaper-offices loads and loads
’ Had of these in vax-ious styles.
We lost sight of him then till last night—You see
He was marker. He saw us gaze,
And observed “ As the bays wouldn’t come to me,
Why, 1 had to come to the baize,”
THE ANDERSON LIBEL CASE.
[BY OUR RHYMING REPORTER.]
“Privilege? Absurd!” said Martin,
“ Sir George from law was not departin’
“ When he sent off poor Fairfax smartin’:
“Press tyranny I’ll have no part in!”
“I can’t agree," said Peter Faucett;
“ Occasion privileged ? Of course it
“ Was, although the Chief ignores it.
“ That verdict, too— Who but deplores it ? ”
“Not at all,” said Justice Innes;
“ To calumniate thus, a sin is!
“ Every single word herein is
“To be proved true: that’s law. The ninnies,
“To think I’m wrong! They’ll go for finis
“To the Privy Council, as there tin is;
“ But my point’s gained! Let Barley win his.”


Brilliant Lustre. ORIENTAL GOLD. EHDume B£Aun -
This Magnificent Metal —the latest discovery of science—puts in the shade every substitute for sterling gold ever offered to the public. The best imitations heretofore produced are
entirely superseded aud surpassed by the Brilliant Lustre and Bndnrxng' Beauty of the new alloy. So admirable is its appearance and quality, that the discoverers have not
stooped to apply it to common uses. No tawdry articles of inferior designs are manufactured of ORIENTAL GOLD. It is worked up into JEWELLERY OF
THE BEST CLASS AND MOST TASTEFUL DESIGNS ONLY, and is
Perfectly indistinguishable from the most costly Sterling Gold Jewellery.
ALTHOUGH SOLD AT PRICES WHICH REPRESENT ONLY A FRACTION OF THE COST OF STERLING GOLD JEWELLERY OF IDENTICAL WORKMANSHIP.
We want to do business with people throughout Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
Parcels ly Post, n April.
RESIDENTS of SYDNEY and VISITORS from
the COUNTRY are respectfully invited to inspect
our Goods. We count it no trouble to show them,
and no injury if no purchase is made.
To save customers the trouble of compiling a list, we make up useful and attractive lists as follows
No. 1.
Gentleman’s Watch, horizontal movement,
Oriental Gold case, open face with crys-
tal glass, with handsome Oriental Gold
Albert, for - £2 0 0
No. 2.
Same as above, except that the watch has
hunting case, for 2 0 0
pr Please observe. We do not pretend that
these are fifty-guinea watches ; but we do affirm
that they are good, honest watches, excellent time-
keepers, articles which do us credit and give satis-
faction to our customers. In appearance they are
indistinguishable from expensive gold watches.
No. 3.
Gentleman’s Silver English Hunting I,ever
Watch, capped and jewelled, with Ori-
Watoh, capped and jewelled, witn ori-
ental Gold Chain £4 4
Oriental Gold Compass Charm .. .. 0 12
Tasteful Breast-pin, Oriental Gold .. ..07
Brilliant Alaska Diamond, Oriental Gold
Ring 0 7
Oriental Gold Shirt Studs, set of four .. 0 8
£6 0 0
The watch in the No. 3 parcel is a first-class
article, such as is usually sold at from six to seven
guineas. We deal direct with the manufacturers,
and on a large scale, and thus we get special terms,
and are enabled to share the advantage with our
customers. The Jewellery, we need scarcely say,
can’t be told from sterling gold articles. The work-
manship is Identical with the best. Thus, by buy-
ing this watch from us, purchasers, as a matter of
fact, secure the other articles as a free gift.
No. 4.
A genuine Waltham Watch, nickel case,
open face, crystal glass, as supplied to
the N.S. Wales Railway Department,
with splendid Oriental Gold Albert ..£300
No. 5.
Same as No. 4, except that the Watch has
sterling silver hunting case, with chain
as before .. .. .. .. .. 3 10 0
Note.—We buy these watches by the
otherwise we could not sell them at the price.
Sportsmen, Bicyclists, Pedestrians, and
Oarsmen—Observe I
No. 6.
A Racing Chronograph nickel-cased watch,
double dials, splendid timekeepers,
with patent fly-back, marking quarter
seconds, with Oriental Gold Albert .. £4 0 0
No. 7.
Same as above, except that this case is
silver instead of nickel, with Oriental
Gold Chain 560
Ladies 1 Please Note.
No. 8.
Lady’s Oriental Gold Watch, handsomely
chased case, full jewelled, highly-
finished works, with handsome treble
chain, two slides and two tassels, of
Oriental Gold, only
ONLY.
mt
6m
Ssi
.
2 15 0
This cut is the exact* size ?
and appearance of
THE REVOLVER for 0NEP0UND!
A beautifully-finished article, nickel-plated through-
out, vulcanite stock. 32 calibre ; 5 shot.
Sent to any part of Australia or New Zealand for £1.
Oriental Gold Company, 474 George-st, Sydney.
* Beware of Imposters who cut out this advertisement and stick it in their windows over a common black iron revolver.
We are glad to have visitors, because we know
that our goods please everyone, and that those who
do not purchase will speak of our Jewellery to
their acquaintance in a way that will do us service-
No. 8 is a gift which will astonish any re-
cipient. Each article is thoroughly good. The
action of the watch is Identical with what is put
into sterling gold cases, of same design, and sold
for £8 and £10, aud there is no difference in the
appearance.
No. 9.
Lady’s Oriental Gold Brooch and Earrings £0 15 0
Lady’s exquisite Necklet and Locket, Ori-
ental Gold 1 15 0
Lady’s gem set Gold Ring (real stones) .. 0 10 0
£3 0 0
SpeciaUy Observe.
If the articles do not answer expecta-
tion on receipt, re-pack them at once and send
them back. If this is done within two days,
or, where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured, we
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will return the
money for the articles not kept.
Every watch sold by us will be rated and accom-
panied by a written warranty for two years.
We have a very large stock of Earrings, Brooches,
ladies and gent’s Alberts, Rings set with real stones,
crystals, and Alaska diamonds, emeralds, rubies,
and Italian pearls ; Lockets, Necklets, Collarettes,
Fancy Charms, Breast-pins, Studs, Solitaire Neck
Studs (some very splendid Alaska brilliants). The
prices vary.
Send us from £1 to £10, with a list of what you
want, and we will make a choice for you to the
best of our judgment and forward same. If not
approved, and immediately returned, we will
refund as above, or make any desired substitution.
The foregoing are but a few assortments speci-
fied to save customers the trouble of making a list.
It will be sufficient when ordering to give the
number of the lot, and enclose P.O.O. for the
amount Payable to The Oriental Gold Co.
474 George-street, Sydney,
OPPOSITE MARKETS.
VIRTUTIS GLORIA MERGES.
COALCLIFF COAL.
This NEWEST and
NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY supplies the CHEAPEST, CLEANEST, and
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony,
£1 per Ton net, delivered within city bounds.
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and bars kept well free from ash, makes a stronger,
more lasting, and cleaner fire that any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky flare and soot of
Newcastle coal, nor does it splinter and fly off like the Western, but it affords that domestic desideratum
of some kinds of English coal of heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a
charcoal or breeze fire, while it imparts to the steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwhole-
some fumes given off by a breeze or gas fire.
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
Office: A. B. BLACK, 247 George Street.
jy DEPOT : WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
BOOTH’S
Hydropathic Bathing Establishment,
Corner of College & Oxford Sts., Hyde Park.
THE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO.
are the largest consumers of American
, Leaf in the colonics, hence the FIRST
' position for quality is assigned to their Twist
and Flat Tobaccos —Yankee Doodle, Conqueror, Sir Roger (thick
twist), R. C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture, and others.
CIGARETTES. —Their CONQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold an equal position.
& S., Importers of Pipes of every kind, Cigars, and all Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods and Sundries,
Si
H. P. GREGORY. H. SHAW SMITH. 8. W. GREGORY.
H. P. QHEQORY & CO.,
Engineers & Machinery Merchants
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR
Fay & Co.’s Woodworking Machinery Korting’s Injectors
Tanlte Co.’s Emery Wheels and Machines Eclipse Windmills
Blake’s Brass-lined Special Steam Pumps Sturtevant’s Fans.
A LARGE STOCK OF THE ABOVE ALWAYS IN OUR STORES,
as well as all
SAW MILL, PLANING MILL, AND MINING REQUISITES,
17 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
New south wales racing company’s
CONSULTATIONS on METROPOLITAN
STAKES (To be RUN at RANDWICK, TUESDAY,
Sept. I), and MELBOURNE CUP.
50,000 Shares at 10s. per Share—£35,000.
1st Horse £4000 I Starters £1000
2nd „ 20001 Non-Starters ... 2000
3rd „ 10001
For 149 Horses £10,000
117 Prize Gifts.—266 Prizes in all.
1 Prize Gift
2
£4000
„ .. 2000
„ ..1000
„ at £500 1000
„ at 250 1000
117 Prize Gifts
8 Prize Gifts, at 135 £1000
30 „ at £100 2000
40 „ at 50 2000
40 „ at 25 1000
... £15,000
Application by Letter only, addressed to the Secre-
tary, No. 3 Wentworth Court, Elizabeth-street;
or Box 255, G.P.O., Sydney.
P.S.—Applicants will please state for which event.
All parties are requested to forward Drafts, P.O.
Orders, or Cheques ; if Cash, to register letters.
Results sent to Shareholders and published in the
Leading Weekly Papers of the Colonies.
The Drawing will take place before a Committee
of Shareholder's. W. BURNHARD,
M
ULLINEB, LEAMINGTON.-STAN-
___ HOPE PHAETONS ; DOG, TANDEM, and
SPORTING CARTS; Barouches, Laudaus, Coaches,
Harness, &c., Builder to H.M. the Queen, H.I.M.
the Empress of Austria, His Grace the Duke
of Beaufort, &c., &c. Orders telegraphed (30s.)
and executed in seven weeks. English prices.
Coloured designs of latest fashions kept in stock.
WILKINSON, WILLIAMS & CO.,
Royle’8 Chambers, Bond Street, Sydney,
Sole Agents for Australia, New Zealand, Tasmania.


Sample Suites, in very pretty patterns, from £1010s
Bora’s Pianos, walnut, perfectly new, £24
Upholstered Music Stools, 13s Ad and 10s (id
Music Canterburys. £115s
Pictures, good subjects, from 5s to £75
Boudoir or Occasional Suites, £1010s
Marble-top, plate-glass door and back Sideboards,
£«10s
Superior inlaid walnut Whatnots, £12s Ad
Inlaid walnut Occasional Tables, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s
Superior inlaid walnut Occasional Tables, £16s
Spiral Leg Oval Occasional Tables, Inlaid, £2 3s
Superior Leather Dining-room Suites, £2310s
Bedsteads, all sizes and colours, from 14s
Bedding at reduced prices
Spiral Spring Mattresses, 4ft. 6in. x 0ft. Aid.,
£1 7s Ad
A very nice lot of Toilet Glasses
Goods of every description, suitable for presents
China Tea Sets, fancy patterns, from 16s Ad
Pretty Dessert Services, 12s Ad, 17s 6d, 21s, 25a,
27s Ad., &c.
For Carpets, Floorcloths, Mattings, and all kinds of
Table and Bed Linen,
Visit our
GENERAL FURNISHING DRAPERY
DEPARTMENT.
For the sum of JBBO prompt net cash,
PARLOUR.
Upholstered Austrian Suite, consisting
of couch, two arm chairs, and six small
chairs
Cheffonier
Oval pedestal table
Gilt frame pier glass
Pair oil paintings
Cornice pole, with rings, pins, and brackets
Lamp 10s Ad; Clock 16s
Pair vases
Fender and irons
Velvet pile hearthrug
Fancy matting, 10 yards
Door slip
BEDROOM No. 1.
Handsome four-post, 4ft Ain., flowered
bedstead
Pair palliasses
Wool flock mattress
Bolster
Two feather pillows
Large chest of drawers
Towel-rail washstand and toilet set
Water caralfe
Toilet table
Toilet glass
Table toilets
Rocking chair
C. 8. chair
Matting for room
Door slip
BEDROOM, No. 2.
Bedstead, half tester
Pair palliasses
Mattress
Bolster and pillow
Washstand and set
Water caralfe
Toilet table
Toilet glass
Chair
Matting
Door slip
The Furniture Column.
Gr
OOD INVESTMENTS DURING THE MONTH
of
AUGUST
at
THE ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE.
OUR REVISED £50 LIST.
SERVANT’S ROOM,
Bedstead
Pair palliasses
Mattress
Bolster and pillow
Washstand and set
Tabie
Glass Is Ad, Chair 2s Ad
Matting
KITCHEN.
Table with drawer
Pine safe
Two chairs
Six soup plates
Six meat plates
Six pudding plates
Six cheese plates
Meat dishes, Is Od, 2s 3d, 3s ...
Pair vegetable dishes
Gravy boat
Bell-top cruet
Set of table mats
Six china cups and saucers ...
Six china plates
China sugar basin
China butter dish
China milk jug
China slop basin
Six china egg cups
Two bread and butter plates
Pair salt cellars
Set of jugs
Pair decanters
Cut glass water bettle
Six cut tumblers
Six cut wines
Six soda glasses
Six Mosley’s dinner knives ...
Six nickel dinner forks
Six Mosley’s dessert knives ...
Six nickel dessert forks
Two table spoons
Six dessert spoons
Six tea spoons
Kettle 6s Ad; Boiler 10s Ad ...
Saucepans, Is 9d, 3s, 4s
Frying pan
Grid-iron
Tea pot 2s; Tea caddy Is
Coffee pot Is Ad; Colander Is Ad
Bread-grater
Wash-basin
Dipper
Tubs, 5s and As Ad...
Bucket
Wash-board
Two candlesticks ...
Baking dishes 8d, lOd
Bread crock
Cake tin
Flour barrel
Knife box
Paste board
Rolling pin
Pepper caster
Flour dredge
Set skewers
Meat stand ..
Nutmeg grater ...
Kitchen spoon
Toasting fork
Canister
Patent box iron ...
Pair bellows
Hair broom
Hand broom
Dust pan
Scrub brush
Knife board and polish
Set shoe brushes ...
THE £70 LIST WILL APPEAR NEXT WEEK.
Campbell Brothers,
Royal Furnishing Arcade,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT THE ROYAL HOTEL*
Dear “ Stella,” how the deuce can a “re-
treat” be a “cynosure?” Yet perhaps, after all,
you are right. “Cynosure” means, literally,
“dogs tail,” and in “retreat” ’tis the dog's tail
which is prominently between his legs. Hence,
we presume that when Queen Maria Christina or
Spain made off for the pretty “retreat” which
was the “ cynosure ” of her hubby and his bio wen,
it was with a view to trace the tale to its point of
departure.
Analysis cannot lie, neither can the
uniform experience of a quarter of a century be
gainsaid. On these two vouchers rest the claim of
Wolfe’s Schnapps to outrank all other stimulants
as regards purity and efficiency.
Mb. DeCourcy Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 136 Pitt-street, Sydney
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Departments undertaken. Titles a
special ity.—Advt.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HORBHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief;
a small bottle often cures. Ask for ‘‘Arnold’s’’
and get it; spurious imitations are sometimes
offered.
P
UBLIC
NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON k CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 483 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET
viz,,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
Or. TWO DOORS NORTH OF OLD SHOP
PERSONAL ITEMS.
“Passive resistance” is Armit’s platform
during his New Guinea trip. So it was Stanley’s
on the Congo, but the number of niggers at the
bottom of that stream with Yankee projectiles in
their vitals will not be known till the angel of the
Apocalypse —one foot on sea and the other planted
firmly on land—shall pass the word for the final
“ roll up” to Jehosophat.
So genial, hearty, old Father-Christmas-
like Dr. Forrest has gone the way of all flesh! May
he have a good time wherever he goes! He was as
full of kindly lore as an egg’s full of meat, and, so,
skilled to guide youth in haunts where learning
dwells; mayhap for college rector he was a whit
too easy, too trusting, too steeped ad unguem in
bonhomie— but, however it was, we trust him now
au Dieu des bonus# gem.
Garnet Walch goes to Madagascar in the
interest of the Argus, which is now trying a game
of poker with its powerful rival, the Age. It has
just come out that Mr. Ernest Morrison, who repre-
sents the Age in New Guinea, acts also on behalf of
the S.M. Herald. We aren’t much surprised at
this, for it isn’t likely that the Herald, in dealing
with a matter affecting the nigger, would go out-
side the missionaries for information. The Argus
people appear somewhat surprised at the alliance
between the 8. M. Herald and David Syme’s
organ.
The Echo’s “ Morpeth man ” (who, by the
way, is no other than the Bishop of Newcastle)
writes in disparagement of Walt Whitman', sneer-
ing at his pretensions to be named amongst the
poets. And yet we don’t doubt for a moment
that ’tis, perhaps. Whitman’s destiny to be known
through the ages as the pre-eminent American
poet of the 19th century, as a bright particular star
m the constellation formed by the world’s greatest
Soets, worthy to be named in the same breath with
lyron and Dryden, with Dante and with Pulci,
with Heine and with Goethe. Of the Morpeth
man and his “maunderings,” and of the vain
babblings which the subject he is dealing with has
set agog, we would ask, in Walt’s words, “ What is
all this chattering of bare gums?”
It happened some years ago in Sydney. A
rich colonist, who was about to go home with his
wife and daughter, met his friend, Blank, in Pitt-
street, and asked the latter to accompany him to
his lawyer’s office and witness his will, under which
document all his property on his decease went to
the wife and daughter aforesaid. “ But,” inquired
the lawyer just before the will was signed, “ your
people are going home with you. Suppose you all
got drowned, or otherwise die, on the way ?” The
capitalist laughed. “In that event, let my money
go to Blank. I’ve no relatives here, and Blank’s a
good fellow—he can have the off-chance.” The
rich man’s wife died on the way home. Then
daughter was carried off by bronchitis within a
month of landing, and her father died broken-
hearted without having made another will. Blank
duly succeeded to the huge pile of his deceased
acquaintance, and is now one of the richest but by
no means one of the most liberal men in Sydney.
Mr. .>ryce seriously intends to bring an
action against Mr. Rusden in respect to the alleged
libels contained in the now celebrated “ History of
N. Z.” That his action will prove au enormously
expensive one is obvious. Should Mr. Rusden
attempt to justify his assertion, it will take rank
with the celebrated Cardigan libel case, the case of
Belt v. Lawes, and other famous trials. For Mr.
Rusden the question is a serious one. He is not a
poor man, far from it; but it will take a great
many sixpenny buckets of water to quench the
flame he has kindled. His name is well known
throughout Victoria. He is not adored even
there, and his especial weakness, which renders
him conspicuously unloved in his own colony, is
his exceeding fondness for the sixpences he has
so industriously accumulated. Most of the
numerous funny little stories which are told of his
hospitalities at Brighton are probably Action, but
they all run In the same groove, and their tendency
and many other little things generally reported of
this peculiar man lead one to think that the day of
reckoning with Mr. Bryce will be a day of much
sorrow.
Mr. George Hamilton, the ex-Commissioner
of Police of South Australia, is dead. He was very
old and feeble, but used to live at the Adelaide
Club, and go out on the Park Land on sunny
mornings and mash nursegirls. He was tall, had
a very stiff walk, and a slight stoop. His Angers
were always clogged with diamond and emerald
mgs, and his “ get up ” was generally immaculate,
tor many years past his duties have been per-
formed by Superintendent Peterswald (now Com-
missioner), and old George was merely regarded as
an amiable dummy. He was liked very much
amongst the club set, but he never spoke to out-
siders unless they were nursemaids. Mr. Hamilton
was reported to be very rich; therefore, he proba-
bly w,.sn’t. It was during his rigime that the
Lotos Club—no worse for gambling than the Ade-
laide—was broken into, and smashed up . The pro-
prietor, a smart American, cleared to America, but
Charlie Lewis and Charlie Moore, of the Georgias,
were put on their trial. Moore was discharged at the
Police Court, but Lewis had to wait six months in
Adelaide in order to give the police a chance of
catching the boss. A whole swell crowd were in
the club at the time the police surrounded it, and
the “peter” passed merrily round. They all es-
caped! Mr. Hamilton sat on the bench during
that case, and Jim Allison was a witness for the
defence ! Hamilton, dead 1 They all seem to be
popping off now. We suppose it will be our turn
some day. Well, we bear the thought with forti-
tude. We know we shall have at least four of the
clergy of St. Andrew’s as pall-bearers, and that’s
almost worth dying for out of hand.
When poor old Kendall was alive, before
Parkes gave him his billet, he often had to wri.e a
souner, for a “ straightener;” but now he’s dead
nobody will leave him alone. Not only do some
minor poets picnic on his grave, but others do
worse. They write poetry about him. Now, we
knew Kendall as well as anybody, and have often
seen him when he wanted a friend. Tom Butler,
of the Freeman, always stuck to Kendall. Butler
admired his prose as well as his poetry; but this
was an admiration born of affection. This, by the
way. Now, here we see in the Echo some poetry
on the deceased bard by Henry Halloran. It is
written in “Waverley Graveyard,” and, though
there is not a yard of it, it is decidedly grave.
[Ill Ed. B.]
“ For plaintive song of kindred harps now fled,
Awhile let grief’s dull murmur softly swell. ”
Well, now Henry, we’ve loved you for nearly 90
years, but we must tell you, at last, that you put
just as many too many [is this right?] adjectives in
your poetry as Lewis Scott (alderman) puts
commas into his prose. The fact is, old boy,
(we say this with all due respect) your Pegasus is
too skittish. It runs away with you. Our opinion
is that you were born at 250, and are gradually
getting back to nineteen again. You smile when
you read this, of course. Well, smile away, fair
Henry, but don’t write any more poetry in grave-
yards till you get back to nineteen. You know
that—but listen —
We would not—for we love you—choose,
Dear bard, to flout your darling muse,
Oh, safely you can bet I
We don’t wish at your verse to carp.
Nor say in verse that’s short and sharp,
Hang on a nail your well-worn harp,
And then try to forget it.
* * *
Sydney Taiwhanga, the Maori ambassa-
dor, arrested at Auckland for neglecting to support
his wife. When Sydney was being searched in the
guard-house, his wife, by a strange coincidence,
“ supported ” by two policemen, was “ run in ” for
drunkenness Thus Mr. Henry Hudson to his
employes: “ He began his career by making some
additions to the private dwelling-house of Mr. T.
8. Mort. Well, whilst there he remembered Mr.
Mort calling him into his study and showing him,
on the wall, with a few encouraging words of his
own, the motto, ‘ To persevere is to succeed.’
Well, when that caught his eye it sent a thrill
through him, and he felt that thrill still. He
wanted them to feel that thrill.” This is just the
sort of yarn that one reads in the Sandford and
Merton stamp of book. Our belief is that Mr.
Hudson didn’t organise that thrill till he’d made
his pile Says Thadeus O’Kane: “The sum of
£848 lls. lid. has been paid for the verdicts and
costs in the libel actions, Buckland and Cooper v.
O’Kane. The Northern Miner is still alive. We
hope to bury all our enemies yet.” That line old
Pakeha-Maori, Judge Maning, an extract from
whose farewell letter we published some time ago,
has at last died in England, of cancer A terrible
event, which drew cold sweat from the most un-
thinking of Adelaide folks, recently agitated that
city. Another Downer passed the preliminary ex-
amination for admission as a practitioner of the
Supreme Court! It is now, in Mr. Archer’s me-
moir, made clear why Sir John O’Shanassy richly
endowed his eldest son with £15,000 a year, and so
scantily provided for others of the family. The
baronetcy had been the subject of recent applica-
tions, and the lately made,will provided for the
great expectation. His election defeat at Belfast
was a disheartener that, Mr. Archer tells us, told
heavily upon Sir John and hastened the end Sir
Hercules and Lady Robinson, we deeply regret to
see, have sustained another deep affliction in the
death of their son-in-law, Mr. A. K. Finlay, in
England. Mr. Finlay, whose home was at Glen-
ormlston station, Victoria, had long been in ill-
health Printer, Ax this up with a “ display” head.
Another Good Man Gone Wrong. Mortimer Frank-
lyn, of the Federal Australian, Melbourne, has
just “federated” with alovely young Hobart maid
with a long front name. Wishing the happy couple
every joy, we hope to live long enough yet to an-
nounce that the World has issued a small supple-
ment. Revs. Gregory and Drought “locked up
the case.” Sir Henry’s art collections, books,
curios, and autographs for sale 1 The local paper
observes that years ago, when Johnny Kelly, of
Myalmundy, was horse-breaking at Coonabara-
bran, his friends had no suspicion that he would
one day discuss profound problems in theology
with a Bishop.
• • *
Near the entrance to the Queen’s private
dining-room hangs the portrait of Lord Beacons-
fleld. That of John Brown is just above it 11
Henry; Irving has been offered knighthood, but
there intervenes the obstacle that his true surname
is Brodribb General Fenwick Williams (the de-
fender of Kars against Mouravieff), who passed
ad majores last week, is generally believed to have
been the son of William IV. He was remarkably
like that monarch in face, anyhow. We hope this
isn’t treasonable Thomas Logan Stlllle, just
dead, was a remarkable Scotchman of the Cham-
bers type, and scarcely less admirable character,
A penniless Ayrshire lad, who walked to Glasgow
to seek his fortune, he began life as apprentice to
the great calico printers, James Black and Co.,
working 12 hours a day. Nevertheless, he made
himself a good scholar, master of several lan-
guages, Inventor of Improvements In the art of
calico printing, and one of the most correct
musicians and soundest musical critics of the day,
whose dictum was always met with respect. His
abilities raised him to a partnership in Black and
Co., from which he lately retired with a large for-
tune, well earned. He left a large musical library
to the Glasgow University, and his will provides
for founding thereat a chair of music John
Bright, who 1s in his 72nd year, and has already
had two wives, is, it is alleged, about to marry
jigain. He denies the soft impeachment.
Charles Badham.
It is a somewhat singular circumstance that
this distant colony should have been, at
various points of its history, the home of
men who dwelt here in simplicity and ob-
scurity, and left us to achieve European
reputations. There was a time when Lord
Sherbrooke occupied small chambers in
Elizabeth-street, wrote for the newspapers,
and defended prisoners at Darlinghurst—not
so many years before he was asked to edit
the Times, to occupy the Chancellorship of
the Exchequer, and to take his place in the
Peerage, by the sheer force of his capacity
and culture. A little earlier, one William
Vincent Wallace, a musical professor at Par-
ramatta, was humbly and quietly engaged
in teaching the piano and violin at a couple
of guineas a quarter, and who was shortly
to be heard of as one of the greatest composers
of the day in every opera house of Europe.
At the same time, and in the very same town
of Parramatta, the distinguished prelate
who was for twenty years the Diocesan of
John Henry Newman in the Roman Catholic
See of Birmingham, and who was within an
aoe of being the Archbishop of Westminster,
was gaol chaplain at a salary of £60 a year,
and shortly afterwards was sent down to
Norfolk Island in the same capacity. A
wondrous company of geniuses to be found
in any place out of the very centres and
capitals of civilization; and verifying
Schiller’s song of the visit of the gods:
“ Never believe me,
Appear the Immortals
Never alone I”
But of all visitors to these shores, the one of
the widest and greatest intellectual reputa-
tion in Europe was unquestionably the
remarkable man whose portrait we give in
this issue. There is scarcely a scholar or
man of high intellectual attainments in the
old world who has not publicly testified to
Professor Badham’s supremacy in Greek and
Latin scholarship. Card. Newman, and Prof,
Blackie, Lords Houghton and Lyttelton,
Professors Huxley and Huntrey of Eton, Sir
Theodore Martin and the Master of Trinity
—heads of colleges—Fellows and Professors
without end—in England, Ireland, and Scot-
land. On the Continent, Dindorf of Leipsio,
Hermann of Gottingen, Merneke of Berlin,
Stallbaum, editor of “ Plato,” Kirohoff, edi-
tor of “Euripides,” and perhaps above all
others, Cobet of Leyden, the worthy suc-
cessor of Hernsterhuis, Ruhnken, and Valok-
ner — the last of the race of mediaeval
scholars in Holland who lectures in Latin.
Prom all these authorities it would seem
that Professor Badham as a Greek scholar
takes his place in the estimation of Continen-
tal critics with Bentley and with Person. To
this marvellous and universally acknow-
ledged scholarship he adds the grace and
attractiveness of every variety of modern
culture. The Frenchman, the German, and
the Italian equally recognise in him a coun-
tryman, since his command of these tongues
is that of a cultivated native of each country.
Of his mastery of English—of the massive-
ness and purity and simplicity of his style,
and its matchless grace—of his vigour and
his delicacy —his pathos and his humour—all
who have heard him, on the unhappily too
infrequent occasions on which he has spoken
in public, will have ample assurance. But
it is not alone in his incomparable culture
that he is to be regarded as intellectually the
first of Australian colonists. It is in the
width of his sympathies—in the tenderness
of his interest in the efforts of humble and
struggling students—in his readiness at all
times and under all circumstances to sacri-
fice his little leisure and his limited means in
helping them —that he is the object of, per-
haps, a truer reverence and a sinoerer admir-
ation, on the part of the intellectual youth
of the country, than any man in it. Of him
and of his residence in this country, it may
be said that he is only known to two classes
of people: to the great scholars of Europe—
and to the struggling students of Australia.
“The policeman’s lot is not a happy one.”
jjow it’s going to he worse. In S. Australia,
Mr. Dash wood, when defending a Chinese,
alluded to the absurdity of cautioning in
English a person who didn’t know a word of
the language. Henceforth it is suggested
that the prisoners be cautioned in their own
language. Polyglot policemen will now be
at a premium. As, however, the caution
usually administered to a Chinaman consists
of a firm grip of his superabundant “ slack,”
and an admonition to “ howld your lip,” it is
possible the difficulty may be got over by
having that or some equally suggestive phrase
translated into Chinese, and keeping the
“bobbies” on “stirabout” and “solitary”
till they learn it.


Gr
Lessee
A I E T Y
H E A T R E
Herr Band man.
Glorious and Continued Success of the highly
moral and instructive play,
THE WOMAN OP THE PEOPLE.
30,000 people have visited the Gaiety to witness
this magnificent Production.
TO-NIGHT, and Evorv Night until further notice,
A WOMAN OF THE PEOPLE,
or the
HORRORS OF DRINK.
Under the patronage of the combined TEMPE-
RANCE SOCIETIES of New South Wales, repre-
sented by M.W.P.G. Palmer, Esq., M.W.S. P. R.
, Esq., G.V
J. Davies, C.M.O., &c., &c., &c., &c.
'The Herald says “ Miss Beaudet’s emotional
acting had a visible effect upon the audience, par-
ticularly (he ladies, one or whom fainted. Herr
Bandmafirrplayed well, and looked the • soaker to
the life. All the other characters wore carefully
dlaved. The scenery was good, notably that of
THE FOUNDLING HOSPITAL."
To Mothers, Wives, and Sisters.—Last night a
lady fainted, and a gentleman was carried out of
the Gaiety Theatre in a fit from the effect ol the
marvellous acting of the " Woman of the People.”
Thousands of weak and unhappy creatures have
, , I ; I'/. 1 lin/tiwrh t-Vtia irroo t
been saveU from a degraded lile through this great
play. Patronised largely by the clergy, who
recommend it to their congregations. Read Mr.
Garnsev’s letter.
The Bulletin, of August 4, saysThe Woman
of the People is the best written melodrama we
have s«en in Sydney for many a long year. Tne
piece obta ined a complete and pronounced success.
Sydney Mail, of August 4. says "Go to the
Gaietv : see, hoar, learn, and be converted."
WOMAN OF THE PEOPLE,
The Furniture supplied by W. Hamilton and Co.,
Globe Warehouse, Park and Castlereagh streets.
Box Otliee at Paling’s and Gaiety Theatre, where
seats can bo booked two weeks in advance.
O
E H
HOUSE
Lessee, W. J. Wilson. Sub-Lessee, A. T. Dunning.
Stage Manager, T. B. Appleby.
Treasurer, J. F. Goldsworthy.
The most successful Opera Bonffe of the day.
MANTEAUX NOIRS
(Black Cloaks).
N.B.—This famous work was performed for
Se v en Months at the A venue, London, and will be
produced on a scale of
UNPARALLELED SPLENDOUR.
THIS and EVERY EVENING.
Admission—Dress Circle, 5s.; Stalls, 3s.; Pit, 3s.
Box plan at H uenerblen a Music Warehouse, 411
George-street, where seats may be secured for any
date In advance. Day tickets obtained at
Stone’s, tobacconist, next Theatre.
Secretary to A. T. Dunning, A. N. Hallifax.
T
W A HOURS AT H A M E
PROTESTANT HALL.
EVERY EVENING, at 8.
MR. KENNEDY
and
FAMILY’S
LAST NIGHTS
LAST NIGHTS
LAST NIGHTS
LAST NIGHTS
LAST NIGHTS.
Positively ending Monday next.
Tickets, 3s., 2s., Is., at Paling's.
R. KENNEDY, Manager.
T
HEATRE ROYAL—Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & Musgbovk.
EIGHTH WEEK and continued triumph of
MISS JENNIE LEE,
and
Mr. J. P. BURNETT.
TO-NIGHT, and During the Week,
Mr J. P. Burnett’s Farciful Comedy, in three acts,
THE GRASSHOPPER, or the CHANCES of
the
CARDS.
Business Manager for Miss Lee, LIDDY.
ICTORIA HA
Bodhke Street, Melbourne.
L L
Lessee
Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
The most Elegant, Fashionable, and Popular
Place of Amusement In Australia, well adapted
for any first-class entertainments. The Lessee open
to Bent or otherwise. Apply
WM. MARSHALL,
Lorgnette Office, Melbourne.
THOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR OF THE
ZULU WAR.
Theatre Royal, Rockhampton, July 9th to 31st.
Bundaberg, Maryborough, and Gymple.
Brisbane to follow, 9th September, with
NEW DIORAMA
OF
EGYPTIAN WAR!
W. H. THOMPSON, Proprietor.
SYL. RYAN, Agent.
STRUTS
utiA puftirry y// I •%
V ', I
m
HITt LA0EL
5"
A -
V
>ut of form. Can’t keep up to work.’’
f that’s all, old man, I’ll have you as brisk as a
In a jiffy. Here, Waiter! large bottle of
White Label. This is a wine one can’t got
iero; and if it doesn’t set you up, Frank, I’ll
i a new hat.”
mi ram a go.,
AGENTS.
BRIDGE-STREET CHAMBERS.
THE BUGGIES OF THE PERIOD.
Unequalled for Durability and Elegance.
WAGGONETTES & EXPRESS WAGGONS
igr FIRST-CLASS WORK ONLY IMPORTED.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 & 24 C/arence-st,
SYDNEY.
i
mm
s
o
a
o
&
o
o
o
c?
ct
■^aoe
<1
4oe rviI*'
r BROOK’S SIX-CORD
f SOFT COTTON
ON
[ NEW SHOULDER REEL
VERY CAREFULLY MADE
FOB
HAND & MACHINE SEWING,
Black & all Colours
BROOK’S PATENT
GLAC£ THREAD
NEW SHOULDER REEL.
is
Gibbs, bright & co.,
rviricr nnrl dor
93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
Ami at MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO., LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO. ______
Principal Agencies:
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON—Head Office : HONGKONG.
J. C. Goatling and Company (Limited)—Portland Cement.
The Tunnel Portland Cement Company (Limited)—Portland Cement no
Marshall, Sons and Company (Limited), Gainsborough—Portable Horizontal, and Vertical Engines,
Threshing Machines, Saw Benches, &c., &c. „ „ . „
Crossley Brothers (Limited), Manchester—The celebrated Otto Silent Gas Engines.
Bow, M’Lachlan and Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &c., &c.
Thos. Glover and Company, London—Patent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian and Sons—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penyrorsedd Slate Company (Limited)—Bangor Slates.
The Quicksilver Mining Company, San Francisco—Quicksilver.
Fels and Company, of Patras and Corfu—Currants.
Thos. Bell and Co.—English Hams, Bacon, &c., &c. _ c
Red Cross Preserving Company, Victoria—Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, &c.
De Wendel and Company, Hayange, France —Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plates, Iron and
Steel Fencing Wire, &c.
Thos. Perry and Son, Bilston—Fire-resisting Safes.
Drybrough and Co., Edinburgh—Ale.
Brunton and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse.
Thos. N. Wine.
Dubos Freres, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablis, Sautemes
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES. ,
New South Wales.—Scott and Mullaly, T. Allsop, F. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros.
Jindera Mill Co. . _
Victoria.— James Fry and Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
South Australia.—W. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hincks.
INDENTS executed, on the most favourable te v ms, from all parts of the world. Consignments
of produce received for shipment to London, under liberal advances.
THE COVENTRY MACHINISTS’ COMPANY
MAKERS BY SPECIAL WARRANT TO H.R.H. THE PRINCE OF WALES.
TRADE MARK REGISTERED.
THE SPECIAL CLUB.
THE AUSTRALIAN CLUB.
James Mi & Crapy.,
Intending Purchasers of
Bicycles & Tricycles
Should Write to Us or Call on Us.
As we have always on hand a full
Stock of THE CLUB BICYCLES and
TRICYCLES, we never fail to give
purchasers the best satisfaction.
We have permission from the leading
BICYCLE AND TRICYCLE RIDERS
OF THE COLONY to refer inquirers
as to the merits of our machines to
them, and we shall tijike pleasure In
doing this whenever requested, as their
good recommendation has already sold
for us a number of machines. Expe-
rienced Machinists inspect and adjust
every machine.
SPECIAL AGENCY:
THE IMPERIAL CLUB
THE CHEYLESMORE CLUB.
389 George Street, opposite
Royal Hotel.
SYDNEY BICYCLE CLUB 10-miles Amateur
Championship, 50 Guinea Cup, Saturday,
August 4th, 1883,
WAS WON ON
An “ Andrew’s” Sanspareil
231bs. Racing Bicycle,
In the grand time of 38mln. 13J4see.
All riders, starting from scratch, rode the Sans-
pareil Bicycle and Excelsior Tricycle.
BAYLISS, THOMAS & CO., OS King Street.
PETERSHAM OWL CLUB.
THE first ANNUAL BALL of the above rink
will be held in the Petersham Town Hall, on
FRIDAY EVENING, AUGUST 17.
PLAIN AND FANCY DRESS.
Tickets : Double ticket, lady and gentleman, 30<s .
gentleman, 31s.; lady, 10s. Cd. ’
JOHN ADAMS.
Hon. Sec.
Tickets may be obtained from J. M. Ellereamn
12 Hunter-street; or any of the Committee : ami
at the Town Hall, Petersham.
The bulwara waltzes
BY JAMES STEVENS.
Respectfully dedicated to His Worship the
MAYOR and MAYORESS OF SYDNEY,
(Mr. and Mrs. John Harris.)
To be played at the COMPLIMENTARY BALL
and will be publi bed on Thursday, ICth Aug. ’
Price, 2s. nett.
EDUCATIONAL.
MISS LYDIA HASTINGS instructs in ELOCTT
TION, VOICE BUILDING, PUBLIC and
PARLOUR READINGS. Class at SYDNEY
SCHOOL OF ARTS, Friday, 4 p.m. (for Ladies); a t
SYDNEY ARCADE, Room 35, Wednesday, 8 p.m
(Ladies and Gentlemen).
Private Lessons, for Ladies or Gentlemen
121 PHILLIP STREET.
Terms for Schools or Clubs on application.
xxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxx
xxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
gPRI N G
FASHIO NS
SPRING FASHIONS
SPRING FASHIONS
Beautiful Fresh Goods for 1883-84.
See them.
MEMO. FROM HORDERN’S IN P1TT-
8TREET.
XX
X X
*X
XX
XX
XX
xx
xx
xx
xx
xx
XX Amongst our many novelties opening XX
XX daily for the SPRING OF THE YEAR XX
are XX
Ladies’ Travelling Hats, 15s 6d XX
NEWMARKET HATS XX
Artlstique Corsets, 12s 6d, beauties XX
Parisian Fans, rare novelties XX
Silks XX
Swiss Embroideries, Blanc, 1000 pieces XX
Swiss Thread Lace, De St. Gall, choice XX
Millinery Ornaments—HORDERNS’ XX
in Pitt-street XX
Checked and Floral Sateens XX
French Voile, Saxony Wool XX
French Virginia Cloth, Nun’s Veiling XX
Nun’s Cloth, 50 pieces and colours XX
Jane Clark Bonnets, latest London XX
rage XX
ASCOT Styles in Millinery XX
Italian Straw Hats—HORDERN’S in XX
Pitt-street XX
Gentlemen’s Curragh Jackets XX
Thomson’s Crinolettes—HORDERN’S XX
in Pitt-street • XX
Zephyrlne Crlnoletto __ XX
Combination Bodicess—Underclothing XX
Department
New Paris Visites
Albany Costumes
Ascot Jersey Jackets, new Electric
Shades
Seguin Trimmings
Iridescent Bead Garlands
Tailor-made Guelph Dresses
Suede Gloves —HORDERNS’
street
Ulsters, with ’Ness sleeves
Coppelin Gloves
Cigale Mantles, every price
&c. &c.
in Pitt-
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
The above goods will speak for them- XX
selves. XX
They are amongst the First Spring XX
XX purchases from our Home Partner. XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
The public will appreciate this ship- XX
ment— so well bought, nicely assorted, XX
and CHIC. XX
People don’t want at the beginning of XX
Spring to buy a lot of Selling-off Trash, XX
old stock, tagrag-and-bobtail drapery. XX
The day is past for that sort of thing. XX
Drapers now must not expect their cus- XX
tomei s to be behind the times. Buy new XX
goods when you spend your money.
You will find us at 211, Pitt-street,
HORDERN BROTHERS,
Importers, Drapers, &c.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
HORDERN BROTHERS, XX
Importers, Drapers, t iontractors, to the XX
VISIT HORDERNS’ IN PITT-STREET
THIS DAY,
for HALF-GUINEA BONNETS
and
POUND SUITS.
Government of N.S.W.,
Carpet Warehousemen, &c.,
172a, 174, 174a, 170. 17(Ja, 178a, 209, 211,
PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
don’t Forget, this day,
new spring drapery,
ex Iberia.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
XX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XX
Haymarket Auction Rooms
AND
FURNITURE BAZAAR,
CORN EXCHANGE BUILDINGS,
724 GEORGE STREET.
The cheapest place in Sydney to purchase every
description of Household Furniture.
HOUSES FURNISHED on the Time-payment
System.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY instalments taken.
Open—Mondays and Wednesdays, 9 to 9
Saturdays . . . . 9 to 10
Tuesdays and Fridays . . 9 to t>
JOHN P. LISTER, Proprietor.
rjw
THE
VICTORIA
Furniture Polish!
Sold by all Ironmongers.
THE FAVOURITE HOTEL IN GOULBUBN.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
opkba , \ T re —“ Wonmn of the People . Jb.
H a® Ir-The Kennedy Family... lb.
am-ah, fl rand Dieu!—“The Grasshopper”
Hnvfti We are glad to see, though, that the
■J *2 Author announces that it is ‘‘ Mr. Burnett s
K jfted author Well, it certainly is neither
farcical co'neu Mullock and Anchovy’s!
Burnett? then, all the greatness, all the
T° Mr. bu. hQW is it j enn ie Lee does not
glo r >V,*/ ft S ong in the second act ? Her singing,
int ifnlv is not particularly great, but a little
certainly. renc ] er the ct in question less of an
bore than it at present is. “ His ’Art
jntolerab " „ jg wort h hearing, but before you
wa /it vou have to endure an hour or two ot
get downing. Miss Lee, we observe, has. at
dropped those brilliant gags, “ Mel-
our sugg , 4 jjailarat.” That shows she s fond
for which we are glad; but, nevertheless, we
of "f.’.rnrised she did so. as one night a man laughed
aresurp Mjss j enn j e W iU read tms little
!lt from “Pickwick,” perhaps she will be able
fathom the reason the man laughed. Here it is;—
ftrhv taM« Harden so earnestly entreated not to
herself about this warming-pan unless (as
ffno doubt the case) it is a mere cover for hidden
«r«-a mere substitute for some endearing word
tlr ® fnisc agreeably to a preconcerted system of
artfully contrived by Pickwick
correspondence, con J template d desertion, and
W wh Iam not in a condition to explain? And
does this allusion to the slow coach mean ?
taught I know, it may be a reference to Pick-
orwVimKclf who has most unquestionably been
W1 . C Hm fally Blow coach during the whole of this
LSion but whose speed will now be very un-
accelerated, and whose wheels, gentle-
e*p n as ho will find to his cost, will very soon be
,n f bv vou!’ Mr. Sergeant Buzfuz paused in
fhfs Place to see whether the: jury smiled at his
inke-but nobody took it but the greengrocer,
sensitiveness on the subject was very
nrobably occasioned by his having subjected a
]?hni«e-cart to the process in question on that
morning. . .” We sincerely trust, any-
how St some law-abiding citizen has slain the
iiian from Ballarat with a elothes-prop long ere
this.
* * * *
There was a little man,
Who thought himself a star;
He would canter on the tan.
He would do the lah-di-dan.
He wrote-this is a fact—
(Now you’ll see the end is sad)
To his pa—" Come, see me act;
I’m a big success, dear dad.”
To see his darling son,
Lo I the dada quickly hied;
And before two acts were done,
Well—he laid him down and died.
* * * *
We think Bandmatm’s ads. are, like Gar-
„ ’ opinion of the “blacking wareus, ” drawed
mftooarchltectooralooral. He has got a good
ofiee and his little bonanza (for she's all that) has
it catch on. That ought to be enough for
h m But it isn’t: and Daniel will have his little
! For instance, he makes “ George Rhodes
Kvho we may remark en parenfhfse, is staying at
the “ Gaiety Hotel!") be “ gratefully his ’’ tor hav-
ing been so excited by the play that he had a fit,
nd was taken to the Infirmary ! I We don’t say
much about the tit: but fancy being grateful for
mdng taken to the Infirmary ! That’s a long way
tnntfiin George 1 And this reminds us that the
nivht we were there, we didn’t notice the lady who
fafnted amongst so many ladies who paint, d. We
oTrtcct Harry Simmons is being up lo his larks
here He came to our office to bribe us with
notations not to “ let up” on this. We need hardly
s!iy we didn’t take the bribe. We-er -weren't in!
* * * *
Intelligence lias reached this colony that
Mr T B Dixon, erstwhile tenor of the Clark and
ilvnian Minstrels, and who retired to America
sonic time ago, hasbeen engaged by Billy Emerson,
r.t £20 a week. This reminds us-we don’t know
why—of Mrs. John Wood’s song:
“ No matter what you do, if your ’art be true,
And his ’art was true to Poll.”
* * * *
■ntow you’re going to get a shower of
Items with hardly any “attic salt:” no disrespect
tn the “perfesh” meant by the word “attic!
Wei then, Doctor is pitching at the Melbourne
Athenmum, and took a rise out of Winter, editor
ot the Melbourne Herald by telling him he was
the Shakespeare of the remote future. Oh, and a
lot of the bald-heads remember Dan Briggs, who
nlaved in a burlesque at the Queen’s about .i’hack-
umwhaekuinbau (since dead). Well, one night, in
Rockhampton, to otdige the amateurs (their Claude
Mefnotte—a chemist’s assistant-having been taken
ill through incautiously taking one of his own pre-
scriptions), he kindly undertook the part at rather
short notice. He got on At until where Beauscant
tefis him to go and win glory in the battle-field.
Then Dan, getting a bit cloudy, replied : “ Bet your
life, old son. I’ll do my level best.” From that
moment the success of the play was assured. And
Mr Cox tells us that the Rosa Towers Company is
going to 1 ndia. Rosa’s hub., b.v the way. is a Mr.
Wood, whoso father is either a Swiss.adrairal or a
Major-General. They were married in Newcastle,
“down among the coals.” as it were. Theold man,
so report runs, was sore with loving her long before
Frank would let him do his spooning openly. All
ihat time they used to make love over the back
gate while the hired girl was washing the greens
and Rosa used to give him elegant little gilts Df
iewellerv which she used to carve out of potatoes.
Before they were married housed to hang them on
hfs Of course he does now. too “ Why,
certn’ly.” [.Second time this week.—Ed. B.j
« m • ♦
The Kennedys announce last nights.
Aweel we wish them a rieht gude willie waucht,
and several other things which we can t spell.
This reminds us that the girls, and Miss Majory
especially, are very richly dressed; but, like lots of
other English actresses, die ne snvent pax xeJane
Sne tofflle. This will keep Alfred going all the
week.
* * * *
Simon is giving away prizes at the Masonic
Hall. And this reminds us of something that is
really disgraceful. One night at the Diorama
(Thompson’s) one reporter got the piano, one the
drawing-room clock, and one the opeia-g lasses.
Shameful! We got the opera-glasses.
* * * *
A wire from Miss Teresa Horan tells us
that Jack Scantlebury’s Boccaccio Company is at
Tingha, and that Von opera is much appre-
ciated by the Chinamen there. Miss Horan, we
learn, was recently in receipt of the following
letter, which, accompanied by a jar of ginger, was
left at the stage door :—
“ Me got cabbagee garden, likee you nearly
fillee same China girl. Plentee money, me give
you blooch. give you „ oy ...
And this reminds us of a good joke. When Jennie
Horan was playing with the Muldoon s Picnic, Dr.
Neild wrote about her that she was a young ladv
of surpassing personal attraction. Next day, the
following wire passed through the Sydney office:—
“ Mother, when you send my shoes to be done,
have an extra inch and a half put on the heel.
• * * *
In the tr in, going to Melbourne, Jimmy
Williamson met a very pleasant fellow mssenger,
and, as be neither belonged to the perfesh,
nor looked as if he wanted to borrow anything 1 ,
James “pulled in.” Then the following dialogue
took place:—
J.C.: My name, I may state, is Williamson.
F.P.: Indeed. ( Muslnyly .) I once knew a lawyer
of that name.
J.C. : I am not a lawyer. (Huskily.) Perhaps yoti
may have seen my name in the paper ?
F.P. ( carelessly ); Can’t say I have. (Then, with
a winning smiley There are so many auctioneers,
you know.
J.C. (paralysed) : What! never seen my name on
the hoardings ?
F.P. : Never.
J.C. : Did you ever see “ Struck Oil ?”
F.P.: Struck what ? I—er—beg your pardon.
I was just —(puts dawn paper). You were saying ?
J.C. (chewing his thumb): You’ve been to see
“ Struck Oil,” surely ?
F.P.: No ; where do you see it?
J.C. : Don’t know John Stofel?
F.P.: Think I’ve heard the name somewhere,
He’s a druggist, isn’t he, at Yaamba Flat ?
.1. C.: Never heard of Lizzie Stolel ?
F.P. : Who’s that ? His mother?
J.C.: Never heard of Williamson, Garner, and
Mus
F.P. : Not that I remember.
J.C.: Then I’ll kill you !
[Kills him, and hides the blood-stained corse in his
hat.]
* » * *
We said last week that Myra Kemble
looked quite too nice to talk about. We now hear
that she has offers under consideration from several
managers for a term. Myra, in certain parts, is
about as good as they make ’em; but she is espe-
cially good in melodrama. When next she plays
the leading part in “The World,” we will bribe the
management with raisins to let us do Clement
Huntlngford. At least, we would if Jemmy White
hadn’t got such a big list, and such a decent notion
of using it. Not in connection with this, we have
received a long letter from Mr. “Horace D'El-
maine,” of the Melville Opera Company, who, it
seems, is temporarily “off” singing tenor ditties
through having fractured one of his spines while (
standing on a step-ladder to mash the chorus, j
Horace’s letter is complimentary (for which we |
are thankful); but what is more to the purpose, he
us an excerpt from the Era, which tells us j
that a grand presentation was lately made to Mr. [
J. B. Johnstone, now playing at the Princess’s,
London, in the “Silver King.” The subscribers
numbered 1.51, the cream of the profession, begin-
ning with Arthur Stirling, Mrs. Arthur Stirling,
and A. W. Pinero, and winding up with Miss Emery
and Edward Ledger. The veteran actor is now,
thank Heaven, provided for life. Ho got £6000—
no, £600—no, £60. Generous creatures I
* * * *
A bard who writes on all sides of the
paper — confound him ! — send us a poem on
the “ Marie, heroine of the people.” We can t
make out his name, more than that it’s J. C. Dal
something, which is of course only another name
for Harry Simmons. However, here is some of it:—
“ Keen blows the blast, all pitiless the storm
That beats upon the young wife’s flowing hair,
As to her bosom, sheltered, close, and warm,
Her babe she presses with a mother’s care.
‘ I must abandon thee my sweet,’ she cries,
‘ Abandon thee to save thy little life!’
More than her own does she that young life prize,
But they must part—she is a drunkard's wife!
Kind Heaven, hear a hapless woman’s prayer,
And save, oh save, a mother from despair!”
Thunder! If this is not Harry, the poor man
must have “got ’em badly,” We will print the
rest when he sends us a gun.
* * * *
So Pomeroy has married (enfin) that young
Kyrlc-Bellewish masher, Arthur Elliot. This puls
our little pipe out, just as we thought we had
made an Impression. Arthur is now Louise’s
secretary, treasurer, business manager, agent, and
bub. All on his plate ! Nothing left for us!
ALAS!
To Arthur.
You can squeeze, ’neath tbe trees,
The white hand of Louise;
You can whisper a lot of nice bosh,
You may laugh till you're sick,
At t he boot and the stick
Of
But we forgot. He’s gone away with a diorama!
By-the-way, wo understand that Louise is just
seventeen. Rosa Towers has also got married.
She is seventeen. And Laura Raymond has got
married to Mr. Cargo, erst of the perfesh, and they
are going to keep a tobacconist’s shop in Pitt-
street. we got this from the groom, ana instantly
advised him to charter old Mr. Kennedy to stand
outside.
* * * *
We must find a corner for this, even if it
goes right over the portrait of an alderman. Edward
Solomon, who is going to produce his new opera,
“The White Sergeant,” in London, recently eloped
from Now York (where he was excessively married)
with Lillian Russell, a prominent opera butter.
Anent this, the New York Mirror (the best of
the N.Y. theatrical rags) has the following:—
“ A little man,
Loved Lillian,
And was not too particular
About a trif-
Le called a wife.
Such conduct is obliqular.
Her roguish eye
Did seem to cry,
1 It you would have me, follow man!
So, at her feet,
He cried ‘Oh! Sweet
Do pity Mr. Solomon.’
Clinrns. —Mr. Solomon,
Mr. Solomon.
“ A man so tall,
Hlght John M’Caull,
Her manager was thought to be,
Who would not let
This public pot
Resign from out his companee;
But said ‘No, no;
With me you’ll go,
Though it provoke your choler, ma am.
Says she * By-bye,
It’s all my eye,
I’m off with Mr. Solomon.’
Chorus.— Mr, Solomon,
Mr. Solomon.
“ John Howson, too,
Has got a new
Boufle opera to speculate;
And he had made
A liberal trade
With Lillian, th’ Immaculate,
In it to sing,
And everything
Seemed rosy; but, oh! hollow man,
Across the blue
Deep sea she flew,
With her faithful Mr. Solomon.
Chorus.— Mr. Solomon,
Mr. Solomon.”
* * * *
After this little diversion, let us go write on
and say that Salmi Morse, who was to have pro-
duced the “ Passion Play” in New York, wasn’t
allowed to do it, and now he is getting sued by
Judas Iscariot, Pontius Pilate, and all the rest of
them. He doesn’t mind this so much in one sense,
but he cannot but regret that one lady in the play
so far forgot herself, on one occasion, as to
threaten him with her parasol, while Judas Iscariot
“hauled off and landed him.” Salmi now considers
that opera bouffe is only one remove from the
Passion Play, and a short one. And Catherine
Lewis is alleged to have shunted her husband, and
to smile sweetly on the man who played the fiute;
and Alice Dunning Llngard has turned out
of frosts frosty. She is not playing now.
as the piece, “Hank and Riches (by Wilkie
Collins) proved a rank failure. Alice now goes
every night to the Folies Draraatiques to see
“ Estrella," and therefore Searrelle may bo said—
his opera being a success—to be in it. This
naturally brings us to the fact that D’Orsay
Ogden’s Company has knocked Mudgee, and also
reminds us of another thing. When Josephine
Deakin was at Armidale, she received three pro-
posals in one day. Coming in rather late after the
play, she was surprised to see the hotel dog lying
on a mat in the passage. She laid her foot on the
dog and killed it, and on rolling the animal over,
discovered that the mat was nothing else but some
of Jack Soantlebury’s hair !
* * ♦ *
Who in thunder is tho Fanny Kellogg who
has become insane? Can it be Clara Louise Kellogg?
Clara was only married a couple of years ago, but
after ten days, she gave him best, because he used
to load up with Bourbon. But her hub. had his
revenge. He froze on to a chorus girl, and put it
up at tho Lambs and tho Lotos Clubs that he was
always catching Clara at the eau tie Cologne. Clara
Louise was very pretty when we last saw her, but
Fanny intrigues us. Perhaps, however, she was
always at the can dc Cologne.
If some latter-day Shakspeare would re-
write the play of “ Hamlet,” so that swords would
be done away with and the lighting be done with
boxing-gloves, the interests in this play, which is
gradually wearing off, would be intensified, Tho
spectacle of Booth or Irving or—Bandmann coming
on the stage with a pair of boxing-gloves and
having a set-to witli his stepfather, while the ghost
acted as referee, would be well worth the prlee of
admission, and if he should have a quarrel with the
gravedigger, and put on the gloves with him and
knock him into the grave, and Laertes should
throw up the sponge, it would bring the house
down. The lines could be changed so that Hamlet
would pick up the skull of Forte k and say, “Alas,
poor Vonck. I knocked him out in three rounds.
There is where I fractured his skull and knocked
him silly.”
‘ THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession .]
Gordon Gooch will, after tho end of the
year, shift camp from Auckland to Melbourne....
As an inducement to visit his theatre, Herr Band*
maun prints:—“ To mothers, wives, and sisters.
Last nitht a lady fainted and a gentleman was
carried out of the Gaiety Theatre in a fit from the
eifect of the marvellous actlnir of ‘ The Woman of
tho People.’" If this doesn’t fill the house, nothing
will. It has been told us, however,—by one who
knows or pretends to know—that in other theatres
such epileptic'persons sometimes belong to the
company, and, like the Parisian claqueurs, tumble
off the seats in simulated enthusiasm when the
che-ild is discovered “ Here, Mr. Peter Paul
Rubens,” shouted the manager to tho scene painter
whom ho saw going to the nearest pub., “ it’s not
four o’clock yet, you know.” “All right, sir,"
replied Mr. Rubens, as he coolly set to work once
more. “ If it’s anything Important, you know,”
said the soft-hearted boss, “ you can take an hour
or so.” “ Oh, no—don’t matter much, sir,” replied
the artist, us he put a tail on a camel and threw a
little more excitement into a red simoon in the
distance: “’twasn’t anything very pressing, sir—
1 v'ns indy going out to get married.” And Peter
Paul Rubens actually was married that day — The
latest idea of “ Professor ” Arrnand, who is now up
North, and believes in himself, rather, is to mes-
merise a couple of Queensland alligators, yoke
them up in his carriage, and do tho main streets of
Brisbane. We caution Armand against carrying
oui this programme. We tried it ourselves once,
and the alligators walked straight into the first
butcher’s shop, devastated the place, and wound
up by taking all the cats out of the sausage-
machine. . .Zulu Thompson, and his familiar prima
donna, at Bundaberg, Q Professor Pepper lec-
turing on “ Knoggera Water” at Brisbane—
Howlmgly funny this, from the Lyttelton (N.Z.)
Times:— Mr. L. M. Bay less, the late lessee and
husband of tho once famous actress, Mrs. Mary
Giadstane, has retired into private life ” —Emelio
Melville pro luced the “Little Duke,” on the 30th
July, at Adelaide, which opened well, and both she
and Miss Plaisted are a boom, and have had a warm
reception. Armes Beaumont and Kate Thayer, on
the other hand, have had a cold—not reception—
but in the head, and been laid up. Rignold is to
succeed Emelic. Safforlne, the ventrihquist, and
wife are also in Adelaide, resting —On Monday
week the caretaker of the church at Sandhurst,
had instructions not to let any strangers into tho
church until after the wedding party that was
expected had arrived. These instructions to tho
man were so strictly obeyed that when Miss
Pomeroy (the bride) arrived he refused to admit
her for some time, although she and all her party
were in bridal array. By the way, the festive
Louise and her husband played Romeo and
Juliet” on the evening of their marriage, at Sand-
hurst. Mr. and Mrs. Chas. Kean played in the
“ Honeymoon” on the night of their marriage.
Actors evidently do not believe in practical honey-
moons. Stage practice teaches them the hollow-
ness of the wnole thing. People who are acting
lovers all their lives find the reality too thin.
* * *
Alice Dunninc Lingard lately played the
leading part in Wilkie Collins’ new drama, “Rank
and Riches," at the Adelphi Theatre. The gro-
tesque Improbability of the plot proved too much
for the “gods.” whose derisive laughter sealed tho
fate of the play. The stage manager made matters
worse by appearing before the audience in a most
eccentric garb and angrily appealing to tho house
to cease its factious and insolent hostility to the
work of a “ great master.” Miss Llngard exhibited
much distress at the unfortunate position in which
she was placed Thus an American paper re,
matinees:— 1 “ Heaven created men tor various pur-
E oses—to be useful, to be ornamental, and to be
anged, but God never made a man for a matinee.
Men don’t go to matinees. Dudes (mashers) go,
loafers go, idle donkeys go, but a sensible man of
any account would as soon think of going to bed at
two o’clock in the day as of dawdling round a
theatie. They are good things for women and
children, but a real man has got a better use for his
daylight than going lo matinees.”—Helen Barry
is the tallest woman on the stage. She is 0 feet 1
inch.. The New York Dramatic News says of
“oure revered and goode friende,” Mr. Clifton
W. Tayleure : “ Clifton W. Tayleure, the dra-
matic visiteurc, will not be heard of faereaftewrc
as a Theatrical Managewe; he will instead devote
his labeurcs to the end of becoming a successful
culti cure, and psychological expositcure of the
dark side of Nateurel” Ye gods ! ! !
In connection with our article descriptive
of the Pastoral Chambers, George-street, Sydney,
it may be mentioned that a portion of the second
floor is occupied by Messrs. Blackmann and Parkes,
the well-known architects. Mr. Blackmann, who
studied his profession under the ablest English and
Continental architects, was for some years in the
Colonial Architect’s Department, Sydney, where he
was associated with some of the best designs ever
issued from that department, notably the Garden
Palace, and the great National Art Gallery, still
under consideration. Mr. Parkes, the other mem-
ber of the lb in, is a son of Sir Henry Parkes, and
he has chosen a profession for which he seems
eminently endowed. Perhaps no Arm of archi-
tects in any city have won such prominence in so
short a time. Their names are to the foot of some
of the best buildings in all Australia, namely, Hon.
John Frazer’s great warehouse, for Trebeck and
Son, near Circular Quay, Wilson’s, Sands’, and other
stores in Clarence-street, by far the handsomest
edifices in Sydney—which now may boast of the
first architecture in the colonies. The other build-
ings in course of progress or erection are the
A.J.S. Bank, corner George and King-streets, the
best building of the kind yet designed for such
institutions, etc.
MR. G. ERNEST MORRISON, THE AGE COMMISSIONER TO NEW GUINEA.
A young man named Morrison walked
across Australia a few months ago. He was un-
armed and alone. While dangling his legs over a
slight fracture in the tropic of Capricorn, it struck
him that walking across Australia was, after all,
an objectless, unmeaning kind of thing. It seemed
about as profitable as drawing cheques on a bank
in which you have no funds, and tearing them up
again. He fancied he had no business where he
was. An alligator, which was making a minatory
demonstration on his flank, entertained similar
views. The animal smiled openly, but Morrison,
not liking its profession of good will, started
south. Arriving in Melbourne just when the an-
nexation fever was at its height, he was induced
by the Age to turn his talents and attention New
G .ineawards, and placed at the head of an expe-
dition to pick up information regarding that mys-
terious island. He is there now, and, provided the
natives do not appropriate a piece of his body, we
may soon expect a piece of his mind on that
strangely neglected land. The Auous is going to
“ stump ” the place with an opposition expedition
under Captain Armit alias (so the Age darkly
hints) Lawson. How our mouths water when we
think of the field lor imagination—not to say lying
—right ahead of these gentlemen!


WOMAN ITEMS.
A girl who goes to Government House
says we ought to swap Gussy for a pawnbroker,
because then we’d be sure of “three balls,”
anyhow.
“I don’t want a maiden turned into an
orthodox angel,” cried the leader of Melbourne
Freethought. “I don’t want to have wings sprout-
ing from her shoulder-blades. No; even in Ely-
sium, let me have her as I knew her here; let me
encirle her waist with my arm, and .” Every
Secularist’s eye grew bright, and his teeth watered.
A young lady, who is absent at boarding
school, communicated to a female friend the
following interesting piece of Information'“ In
my last letter, you remember, I told you that I
thought Charley S and Mary wore engaged to
bo married. Well, now I know they are. They
sat in the gallery last Sunday night, and I saw
Mary threw her head back while Charley scraped
a lolly off 1 he roof or her mouth.”
Why the “Halt of the Game of Skittles,”
dear Stella. Why not “ Tennis Court ?” Tne
haughty King of France didn’t play skittles with
his princes and courtiers, though he played a
derned sight less moral games. Or perhaps, Stella,
it was A If'onso’s game with a beautiful young Mar-
quise that made you think of a new rendering of
“ Jeu lie Paume." And Alfonzo be was handsome,
and Alfonzo he was young—and Queen Marla
Christina being none the less a woman because
crowned, went for the “ crown ” of the other
queen, and (according to Stella) there’s a deuce of
a shine at Madrid. And so the world toddles
round!
Spurgeon is dead against dancing of any
kind, blit against promiscuous stepping he speci-
ally I rtts. If men will dance why not by them-
selves, and tne same of women ? In Maryborough
(Queensland) his sv ggostlon has been carried out—
so far as the men are concerned. Seventy or
eighty of them meet every week, and the flutter
of a petticoat is unknown. The local paper says
that the affair is carried out “ with the best re-
sults.” “Results” must have been had before the
present attack of lunacy. To the credit of the
women they have not fallen into the same snare.
They know better. They know that the discor d
they create is not a “ circumstance ” to that which
will take place by-and-bye when the men come to
their senses. Victoria! what voluptuous feelings
must blaze up A the heart of a strapping youth of
flve-and-twenty as he humps round another hulk-
ing six-fo er and pauses in the whirl for the
Inevitable u 'e-d-ttte.
It seems, then, that the divided skirt
means the abolition of stays. This Is news, Indeed.
Success to the divided skirt I When first the inex-
perienced lover is permitted to clasp the maiden of
his choice within his arms, in that day one of the
Illusions of youth and innocence perishes. He has
thought of a girl as something soft, warm, yield-
ing. He finds, upon experiment, that, like the
armidillo and the turtle, she carries her bones out-
side. What Byron, in a celebrated passage, calls
his “ glowing arm,” comes into collision with a
cold and rigid encasement which resists pressure
and chills the warmest feelings of his soul. Here-
after, to prevent disappointment, before ventur-
ing upon these pre-nuptial endearments, the lover
will endeavour to find out how the land lies. “One
moment—excuse me,” the ardent youth will say
when preparing to “ seal” an engagement, “ may I
be permitted to inquire—don’t misunderstand me—
but—do you wear the divided skirt ?”
I wonder, says “Silver Pen,” if men ever
read the fashion gossip ? Because I just wanted to
tell you the latest pretty things in “white clothes,”
which men can’t possibly want to read about.
They say they don’t; but who can believe a man ?
Under-garments are so excruciatingly lovely, that
it seems a sin to cover them with a dress. Some of
them are now cut square like a low-necked dress,
and then the square is filled with pretty lace; or,
sometimes, a shield of plain material is let in, and
the monogram of the wearer is worked on it in
satin stitch. But it wouldn’t do for every woman
to have her monogram there, would it ? we are so
gay, you know, and accidents do happen. Well,
some of those garments have the lace lined with
pink or blue lawn, which is comfortable, and very
effective. The airy raiment worn during the
witching hours is now made almost fitting the
figure—that is, at the shoulders, and awfully un-
comfortable, too—and the front is entirely embroi-
dery or lace. At either side of the throat is a loop,
to tie with silk ribbon, such a fastening being pre-
ferable to buttons, which always come undone.
For my part, I consider those with a slight fulness
at the back are much more snug than those tight-
fitting, for who wants to go to bed in a straight
waistcoat, when all one’s shape is hidden under the
mantle of night ?
v m v
According to the Paris Figaro, English
poodles are now worn with a handle. This is the
style. When the doggy is young, an incision is
made in its tail, near the root, and the tail is then
curved double, so as to bring its tip into the inci-
sion, where it speedily adheres, and takes a firm
Betting. In a few days all traces of the trouble dis-
appear, and little “ Bijou’s ” tail is then used by his
fair owner as a handle, the arm being passed
through, and the poodle carried along like a reti-
cule This is how the “taffy” man of the New
York Stab slobbers over Lily Langtry’s hand :—
“It is plump, pink, and pretty. You can’t think
of rose leaves while looking at the fair digit, but it
will suggest pink sea shells and round balls of
golden butter lying to cool in the clover that has
grown up around the well-curb.” “ The fact is,”
writes another scribe, “ her hands look like two
Erlze hams, and Providence turned up so much of
er continuations to make feet, that they have to
tan a special hide whenever she wants a pair of
boots made.” That smoke-coloured Adonis, Mor-
x-is Greenwall, is bringing the Lily to Australia—
Lady Georgians, sister of Lord Randolph Church-
ill, and daughter of the Duke of Marlborough, was
married in June to Viscount Curzon. She wore
white satin, and her maids cream ottoman and lace,
with anti-aesthetic flowers, that is, real Philistine,
primary-coloured, red and yellow roses. And as
her three handsome titled sisters, each a “ Lady,”
wore respectively royal blue velvet, pale grey silk,
and crushed strawberry, at this “ strawberry-leaf
wedding, it may be assumed that Oscar’s sad, sick
hues are out of fashion A girl who lives not
miles from Bombala lost her lover in a way you’d
never guess. In a heedless moment, she connived
at a joke suggested by her little brother, and last
Sunday night while she and her lover held sweet
talk about the happy future, the brother took the
saddle from his horse and put it on a lively three-
year old steer. When the young man—wno came
out in blissful abstraction to mount his steed-
picked himself up from the corner of the stock-
yard, he saw the idol of his soul laughing. She
will never laugh at him again, for he meets her
now only as a stranger. Love may be trampled on,
but an affectionate nature will not be ridiculed
Here is a joke from Mark Twain’s new book.
Speaking of going back to see the home of his
childhood, after years of absence, he says; “ I saw
men whom thirty years had changed but slightly:
but their wives had grown old. These were good
women; it is very wearing to be good.” — At a
Charters Towers hotel breakfast table, whilst the
clatter of knives and forks resounded, a lady rose,
and, with a riding whip, laid on to a gentleman
who was deeply immersed in a cutlet. It did not
require much effort on his part to seize the whip
and disarm his fair but resolute assailant. The
sympathy of those present appears to have been
with the fair creature who wielded the whip....
Indian servants fx-om Madras are being Imported
into Melbourne. The servant girl and her diffi-
culty are about settled—Twenty-one years ago
the English University authorities refused to
admit Mrs. Garrett Anderson as a student. The
other day she was present at London University to
see twenty-four female students awarded honours
and two obtain medical degrees. These are the
days for throwing overboard the stupid prejudices
of earlier times—At a Wanganui (N.Z.) insol-
vency examination, the other day, the bankrupt’s
wife being called on to give evidence, kissed the
Book and took the following oath:—“ I swear I’ll
not answer any questions 1” And she didn’t, though
they tried hard to get her to perjure herself, and
even threatened her with imprisonment.
THE MARRIAGE OF MAY.
Brightly shone the sun on the silver sands
of Coogee. We may say hero parenthetically that
the story we are about to write down is as true as
it is touching. The sea sparkled like a forest of
chandeliers, the wind blew balmily, and the gauzy
white clouds on the horizon looked to the eye of
sentiment like little bridesmaids In snowy veils. It
was the wedding morning of Algernon and May.
We shall not say how long ago it was, but it was
not long. Algernon was a young bank-clerk; May
was the daughter of a rich retired grocer. They
loved with a love that is only known in sixpenny
novelettes and suburban cottages. So that May
awoke on her wedding morning with cheeks flushed
like spring roses. On the long bars of sunlight
that shot through the window, little elves came in
and whispered tender things in her ear that made
her blushes doubly deep. She lay back on her
S Blows—her golden hair in a wanton tangle around
er dear little head—and smiled a lovely, languor-
ous smile. She had hardly yet come forth from
the land of dreams. Before her mental gaze
stretched out the gold-flushed sea of matrimony.
And she in her little shallop, with one strong and
beloved hand at the helm, was about to sail away
from the pleasant haven whore she had passed all
the merry, careless days of her childhood. Ah!
there is to a woman no day in all the days of her
life like her first wedding-day. It is hallowed
with rainbow-light for ever.
• • •
A soft knock came to the door, and in en-
tered a gentle-eyed tender-looking woman. This
was May’s mother. Her eyes were sorrowful
with that vague, sweet sorrow which only a
mother can feel, when the child, whose laughter
filled the old house with sunshine, is leaving it for
ever. A glad smile danced in May’s eyes for a
moment, as her mother came in, and then suddenly
the tears gathered in them, and, throwing their
arms about each other, mother and daughter wept.
Such grief is sacred; let us draw a veil over it.
• • •
Merrily rang the wedding - bells. The
bridesmaids had arrived, looking sweet as haw-
thorn blossoms. May’s father playfully tapped
one of them on the cheek, and, while she blushed
like the bloom of clover, hinted that it would not
be long before she, too, would maae some fine
young fellow happy. The good old man looked as
proud as if he had Just refusedaC.M.G.-ship. Then
the mother of May—smiling now to give a good
example to the girls, and not let them waste their
sentiment till the right time came—sailed in, and
the old couple looked at each other for a moment
with a happy sigh as they thought of their own
wedding-day. And lastly, arm-in-arm with her
dearest girl-friend, floated in the bride elect, beau-
tiful in pearl silk and orange-blossom. It was
worth a day of life to merely look at her. The
bridesmaids were all pretty, but she shone among
them like Dian amidst her maids.
» ♦ *
But where was the bridegroom ? The
hour at which he should have arrived had already
struck. Yet he was not there. What could have
taken place to keep him late on his wedding-morn-
ing ? Had ho not sworn over and over again that
nothing in all the world could keep him from the
side of nls May ? A cold fear began to creep over
the hearts of the erstwhile joyous party. What
tragedy might not have happened I May cried in
a storm or sobs that she would lay down her
life for Algernon’* truth. Her father looked
grave. Her mother looked angry aud sorrowful.
The bridesmaids looked anxious and disappointed.
The best men had not turned up, either. The
hands of the clock went slowly round. It was an
hourpast the time. The carriages were waiting at
the door; the neighbours were waiting at their
windows; the minister was waiting at the altar;
the small boys were waiting at the street corner
with a pile of old boots ready to throw after the
bridal party for luck. But no party went out from
the house of the retired grocer that day.
•
The dreary hours dragged heavily by. The
bridesmaids went home; the neighbours left
the windows; the minister put off his vest-
ments, sneering; the sexton stopped ringing the
bell; the carriages were sent back to the livery
stables; the small boys bombarded each other with
the lucky boots. And the bride went up to her
room, and cried as if her little heart would break.
All the glory had gone out of the day. The very
sun, that had risen so joyous-looking, set with a
g'oomy and dispirited look.
• •
A knock came to the door just after dusk.
The mother went to open it. Two men were stand-
ing there, carrying the prostrate form of another
between them. Their eyes looked mute sorrow
for the agony of the mother; and. without a word,
they left their burden down on the hall-table, and
slowly walked away. The mother looked with a
fearful foreboding at the prostrate figure, and then
with a wild shriek she went into hysterics. Hear-
ing the noise. May, with a dreadful fear at her
heart, rushed down stairs. And there she saw her
lover—her Algernon—the man with whom that
morning she was to have begun a bright wedded
life, lying stiff and cold.
Distractedly she threw herself on that dear
form, and covered its lips with kisses. Suddenly
she drew back, with a strong glare in her eyes.
Her lover was dead.
Dead drunk.
And he had got drunk on rum I
Colonial Rum I 1
The competition between the fours-in-
hand at Deniliquin show lay between a light well-
matched team from Quiamong (Mr. J. L. Parker’s)
and a g’ood upstanding set of horses from Boo moo
noomana (Mr. Alfred Hay’s). There was not half
a hand difference between any one of Mr. Parker’s
team, and the matching in colour was equally
good. The Boomoonoomana team, however,
gained the prize. They were a good, dashing,
well-paced lot, and no two of them were alike—ft
fact which, according to present English fashion,
tells rather in favour of than against a team.
Among the ladies in the drag was Mrs. Alfred Hay,
who had the honour of playing pianoforte solos ftll
night for the delectation of the desperado Morgan,
who stuck up her father’s station, Peechelbs, and
who was shot dead on the following morning.
Had he not been soothed by a variety of soft airs,
it is Impossible to say what the blood-thirsty brute
might not have done with the household. u Music
hath charms,” etc.
Professor Cope (an American) has dis-
covered twenty-five species of fossil dogs In the
Miocene formations of North America, and as
many in the Pliocene. This long-neglected and
despised canine is having something done to him
at last. It is quite time. In the stone age they
appear to have been much more closely allied than
they are now to “otters, weasels, and hyaenas.”
This is reassuring. We thought the brutes had the
pull of us in ancestry ever since Darwin told us of
our relatives, the anthropoid apes, but Professor
Cope’s researches have satisfied us on this point.
By the way, cannot something be done for the
Australian dingo ? Surely Professor Anderson
Stewart could collect sufficient facts from our
post-pliocene formations to build up for him J
genealogy every bit as respectable as that found
for his American brother by Cope. There may be
no remains of “ otters, weasels, and hyaena* ” te
connect him with, but it is fair to assume that
pre-hlstoric portions of the platypus and “ goao.-
ner” might be hitched on some way to his family
tree. At any rate, the thing is worth a trial.
THE MARRIAGE OF MAY.
Out but In.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
PREPARATIONS FOR THE MAYOR’S BALL.
A few months back the committee of the Melbourne Benevolent Asylum made an
appeal to the public through the press for donations of cast-off clothing for the use of
the inmates, and a generous response was the result. The parcels forwarded contained
clothing of all descriptions, including a number of dress suits, but as the latter were
considered as rather too aesthetic for persons in reduced circumstances, the committee
resolved to dispose of them otherwise. At a recent meeting of the committee, the
question came on for consideration, and it was decided that in view of the Mayor’s
ball coming off shortly, the suits might be sold advantageously, and accordingly if was
resolved to submit the articles to public competition at an early date.
Lo, here is Grass-tree valley,
In whose gorge the comically
Curious incidents I chronicle took place.
Both its sides are green and grassy,
And its wimpling stream is glassy
As it curves among the massy
Moss and ferns, where your face,
If a masher, like Narcissus,
You can gaze at, or if missus
Wounds you deeply you can tumble in and drew
the sad disgrace. n
Up among the grass-trees dumpy
There’s a slabbed and bark-roofed humpy
Where the pleasant Mr. Gallagher is found
While below, the groat Dolanty
Keeps a comfortable shanty
Where at night the sacred “ante
Up” is played ’mid round on round
Of the vitriolic nectar
Which the god-like free-selector
Swills until he lays his noble person on the grom^
Well, one evening in the gloaming
Mr. Gallagher came roaming
Down the velvet of the valley, with an eye
Not so much to find the shanty
As to spot the great Delanty
Ere he gave his soul to “ ante
Up,” and ascertain the why
His sweet wife, the holy Bridget,
Was in such an endless fidget
Ever running to Delanty’s with excuses deeply
Now, also from the shanty
Sallied forth the great Delanty
On the road to Mr. Gallagher’s above,
Wanting also to discover
Why his Ann was such a rover.
And suspecting that a lover
Was the secret of the move.
For he knew that nothing human
Could so tickle up a woman
As the irritating, palpitating finger-tips of love.
Now, also Bridget stole out
Through the fern-trees to bowl out
The pleasant Mr. Gallagher, whose way
Of running to the shanty
With pretence to see Delanty,
Or to have a game of “ ante
Up,” was very childish play.
She suspected he was doing
A tender bit of wooing,
And she set herself to catch him in the gloaming
of the day. *
Now, also Ann Delanty
Came the back-way from the shanty
In wonder why her husband went so oft
Up among the grass-trees dumpy
Tb the slabbed and bark-rooted humpy,
And returned so spry and jumpy,
And, when questioned, only coughed.
She was sure he was a traitor.
And she would no longer wait, or
Take his coughs as answer to interrogations soft.
Now, in a sheltered alley
On the velvet of the valley
Where the ferns made an archway dimly green
Mr. Gallagher cried “ Thunder I ” '
And it wasn’t any wonder,
For not half a foot asunder
He and Ann were seen.
He saw Ann Delanty;
And the hostess of the shanty
Saw the pleasant Mr. Gallagher with terror In his
mien.
Now, in another alley
Just alongside in the valley
Where the elbow of a grass-tree stopped the way,
Delanty, too, cried “ Thunder I ”
And it wasn’t any wonder,
For not half a foot asunder
He met Bridget in dismay.
Bridget scared the great Delanty,
And the monarch of the shanty
Scared the gentle Bridget in the gloaming of that
day.
Now, ’neath a fern-leaf peeping,
Mr. Gallagher said, weeping,
“So I thought it—Bridget’s faithless, ’pon my
soull”
Ann, too, similarly peeping,
Added, plentifully weeping,
“ Yes, Delanty is a creeping
And a coward-hearted mole!”
Then Mr. Gallagher said “ Lubby I”
And Ann responded “Hubby!”
And both remained contented with the single
glance they stole.
Now, round the grass-tree peeping,
Said the great Delanty, weeping,
“So I thought it—Ann is faithless, ’pon my
soull”
And Bridget, also peeping,
Echoed, plentifully weeping,
“ Mr. Gallagher’s a creeping
And a coward-hearted mole!”
Then Delanty whispered “Lubby!”
And Bridget answered “Hubby!”
And both remained contented with the sing
glance they stole.
Next day, the great Delanty
Walked straightway to the shanty,
Met the pleasant Mr. Gallagher, and said
“ Dry up. We’ve both offended.
But the simplest way to mend it
Is to swop our wives and end it I”
Then the other bowed his head.
So Bridget now’s Delanty’s,
And the mistress of the shanty's
In the humpy with the pleasant Mr. Gallagher
instead.
JOSS.


BRIEF MENTION.
Wedding favours—Twins.
Is it the knell of a Land Bill—Far-nell ?
The Christchurch milkmen are considering
the advisability of forming a union. The union
will probably consist of milk and water.
An order of merit for police is established
, pnvland Our crowd don’t want them out
cLo Thev can dispense with tin shields when
thev' all have terraces of houses. Why, it takes
one policemen we know, mounted on his charger,
fniir hours to collect his rents in an eastern Suburb
alone, while another owns a mile or two of Surry
Hills.’
There was an “absence of enthusiasm”
when Mr. Harry M‘Quade was addressing bis con-
stituents at Windsor, the other day. But the ex-
citement was simply terrific when he asked them
out afterwards to take a drink. We should smile I
Constituents in these times don’t want eloquence
from their representatives. They want rum.
On the night Brooklyn bridge was opened,
numbers of fashionable New Yorkers gave “roof
parties.” At one very swell affair given by a club,
150 persons sat to a splendid banquet served on the
roof, whence they could overlook the scene on the
bridge and the fireworks all night. We’ll probably
have people at Milson’s Point and George-street,
giving roof parties the night Garbett’s Bridge is
opened.
One of St. Marks’ choristers, having had the
luck to die in the odour of scantity, got buried at
Waverley, not only with choral honours, but with
elegiac hiccups of the Rum, murmured ungram-
matically to his memory on this wise :—“ Beneath
the soothing sound of th« ocean murmuring on
the beach at their feet, grief seemed bushed, and
brighter hopes inspired by the thought that the
stream of his young life had reached the end at
last, and was now merged in the mighty main of
the ocean of eternity.” The “ main of the ocean ’’
makes one think of the mane of the jackass who
—but there I we forgive him.
Some years ago, at a court house net far
from Gympie (the P.M. and the Gold Commissioner,
being on the bench), Constable Kelly introduced
a prisoner. Then things went along thus:—P.M.:
“Constable, what is this man charged with?”
Cons: ‘ Drunkenness, your worship 1” P.M.: “Is
this a d d Insult; look at me. Am I sober?”
Cons.: “Yes, your worship!” P.M.: “You're a
liar, look at Mr. (the Gold Commissioner), is he
sober?” Cons.: “ Yes, your worship. I don’t lie.”
P.M.: “You’re a liar. I’m drunk, Mr. ’s
drunk, and you would be drunk only you dare not,
but will be as soon as you get out of this. The
case is dismissed.”
In the Far North, every woman has a nick-
name. Here are the sobriquets of some of the
fair creatures of the Palmer River:—“ Sheet of
Bark,” “ Ridge Pole,” “ Setting Hen,” “ Mudlark,”
“ The Stump,” “ Jack the Lad, “ Highland Chief,”
“Round Mountain,” “The Irish Duchess,” “Port-
wine Liz,” “'lhe Speckled Hen,” “Gentle Annie.”
And some of the gentlemen have nicknames, too:
—“The Double-jointed J.P.,” “Alligator Mick,”
“Timber-toed Rill,” “ Barcoo Joe,” “ Pifty-on-the-
blind," “ The Barking Butcher,” “ Don’t-glve-ray-
name-a-bad-house,” “ Tom-the-Throad, “ I’ll-
yann-yom-yacket,” “ Dick-the-Needle.” “ Christy-
the-Boar,” “ Billy-you-eun’t-lick-’em.”
Down the Murray is the hospitable home-
stead of Collindina, the English of which title is
said to be “Call and dine here.” Well, one day in
the fading past, a big politician, who is not now in
the colony, did call and dine there. When he had
f otaway, and had, after the manner of his kind,
orgotten the hunger ho had just satisfied, he
began to “talk about" his entertainers. “I have
been,” he said, “in a cedar palace down by the
Murray, where the only literature to be found was
the Governmknt Gazette and the Land Act.”
“Just so,” remarked one of his hosts, to whom the
story was carried by a kind friend, “the book he
must have looked for was the promissory-note-
book.”
They are being rapidly civilized—the
Maoris. One of them called upon an Auckland
publican the other day, and asked for a bottle of
gin. He dropped it into the pocket of a great coat,
and told the landlord to “stick it up.” “ * No tick’s ’
the sign I runs under,” said the publican, and the
poor native had remctantly to give the bottle back
again. But why, the story is as old as the last
survivor of Trafalgar. Of course it was water-
dirty water—that was returned. The only in-
structive addendum to this hoary anecdote is that
the landlord smiled, used no bad language, started
to whistle “ Rule Britannia,” and, taking the bottle,
sat on a log outside. Each Maori that came by was
asked to drink. He drank, and passed on, his mouth
and heart tilled with bitterness.
When Connor, Dean of Windsor, died, the
Court Journal of May 1 (inspired by Majesty)
remarked:—“ The intelligence of the death of the
Very Rev. G. H. Connor, Dean of Windsor, reached
the Queen this morning. Though not unexpected,
Her Majesty received the news with much concern.
The Queen had a high personal opinion of the
Doan, who, as chaplain to Her Majesty, and for
many years Vicar of Newport, was known to the
Queen and Royal Family, who sincerely mourn hfs
loss.” Garranny is pleased to call the above
quoted par. a “touching record,” just as, we pre-
sume, she (Garranny) would deem a kick from
Wales or Albany a touching notice! I As a matter
of (act, could the Court Journal have been in-
spired by Maj sty to say less of a saveloy pur-
veyor ?
At Port Darwin there is a gaol (not that it
is necessary, but just for the sake of appearances),
but no gaoler. Things were not always thus. W.
J. Laurie was the gaoler, but, following the ex-
ample of Disraeli, he took a leap in the dark. It
was over a cliff in his case, and now a jury of his
countrymen assembled to find out “ why he died.”
James Pickford, the publican, was called, and
proved satisfactorily that Laurie was sober when
he came to the house and when he left, having had
only six or seven nobblers while there. At the
obsequies, according to the local paper, “The
a hole of the native and nearly all the Chinese
prisoners requested leave of the Deputy Sheriff to
attend the funeral, which was given. About
twenty of these attended, and seemed deeply
affected, crying—” Oh, poor Mr. Laurie; him dead.
Him very good fellow.” VVe like this new idea of
prisoners being let out for a holiday to go to
funerals. With what pleasure would a lot of
people now inside—and outside—of Darlinghurst
Gaol attend the obsequies of the Judges 1 we are
not told whether these poor people escaped stone-
breaking during the time occupied in the sad
ceremony. If they did, ungenerous people might (
hint that their grief proceeded from
motive*. As a rule, a prisoner’s affection for his
keeper takes the form of a blow with a pick,
ST. GRIFFITH AND THE LAND SHARKS—A QUEENSLAND LEGEND.


The United States off
America.
The Honorable John 0. New, assistant secretary
Of the United States Treasury Department, one of
the most distinguished public men of America,
writes to the Charles A. Vogeler Company, Balti-
more, Maryland, U.S.A., from the seat of Govern-
ment, Washington, district of Columbia, as fol-
lows
“ It is a source of satisfaction and pleasure to in-
form that, from my own personal experience and
observation, I am enabled to give St. Jacobs Oil my
cordial recommendation.
“I have frequently noted the happiest results
from its use as a speedy and effective remedy for
the relief and cure of rheumatism and many other
distressing painful ailments, and it is well worthy
all the highest praise that is said in its favour. Its
magical effect has no doubt made ‘It Conquers
Pain’ a familiar watch-word in millions of homes.
“ I congratulate you on being the possessor of
this remarkable agency of healing, and cannot but
thank you for the benefit I have known to be de-
rived from its use.”
The Great German Remedy.
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL.
CURES RHEUMATISM.
CURES RHEUMATISM.
CURES RHEUMATISM.
CURES RHEUMATISM.
CURBS RHEUMATISM.
CURBS RHEUMATISM.
CURES NEURALGIA
CURES NEURALGIA
CURES NEURALGIA
CUBES NEURALGIA
CURES NEURALGIA
CURES NEURALGIA
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL.
CONQUERS PAIN.
CONQUERS PAIN.
CONQUERS PAIN.
CONQUERS PAIN.
CONQUERS PAIN.
CONQUERS PAIN.
CURES HEADACHE
CURES HEADACHE
CURES HEADACHE
CURES HEADACHE
CURES HEADACHE
CURES HEADACHE.
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST, JACOBS OIL,
CURES TOOTHACHE.
CUBES TOOTHACHE.
CURES TOOTHACHE.
CURES TOOTHACHE.
CURES TOOTHACHE.
CURES BACKACHE
CURES BACKACHE
CURES BACKACHE
CURES BACKACHE
CURES BACKACHE.
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST, JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL.
CURES BRUISES
CURES BRUISES
CURES BRUISES
CURBS BRUISES
CURES BRUISES
CURES SPRAINS'.
CURBS SPRAINS
CURBS SPRAINS
CURES SPRAINS
CURES SPRAINS
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL.
CURES SWELLINGS
CURES SWELLINGS
CURES SWELLINGS
CUBES SWELLINGS
CURES SWELLINGS
CURES SORENESS
CURES SORENESS
CURES SORENESS
CURES SORENESS
CURES SORENESS.
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL
ST. JACOBS OIL.
A Marvellous Cure.
Major B. S. White, salesmen in the well-knowm
dry goods, jobbing-house of Witz, Bieldlerand Co.,,
of Baltimore, Md., said he had just written a letter'
to the Charles A. Vogeler Company, an extract of
which is here given:—
“ I cannot better describe my feelings than by-
saying that I have been a partially dead man for
the past ton years. What is commonly called ai
sleepy or dead arm or leg was the feeling with me*,
which commenced at the top of ray head, down the*
spinal column and pervaded my limbs to the tip*
of my fingers and toes. My fiesh was cold and life-
less. Doctors attributed my sufferings to the en-
largement of certain glands: others declared that
knots had formed along the spinal column, inter-
fering with the circulation of the blood. The
quantity of medicine I took without relief would
be sufficient to set up a first-class apothecary shop.
I tried Turkish and electric baths and certain pills
prepared for rheumatism and gout, but they gave.
only temporary relief. Finally, St. Jacobs Oil was.
recommended. On retiring at n ; ght I had my spinali
column thoroughly rubbed with it. This was re-
peated several times, and, thank God, I feel like,
another man. All those knots, kinks, and stiffness;
have passed away, and I am myself again. I havet
no hesitation in saying that, for all acute locall
pains, St. Jacobs Oil is a safe, certain, and speedy*
remedy for man or beast.”—Baltimore, Maryland,
United States of America, Daily American.
£100 REWARD.—A cash reward of one hundred
pounds will be paid by the Charles A. Vogeler
Company of Baltimore. Maryland, United States of
America, proprietors of St, Jacobs Oil, or by their
accredited local representatives, to any person
producing proof to the effect that the testimonials
published by them in regard to St. Jacobs Oil are'
not strictly genuine. St. Jacobs Oil conquers pain-
It cures Rhematism, Neuralgia, Headache, Tooth-
ache, Backache, and all similar ailments. Sold by
Druggists and Chemists everywhere. Price im
New South Wales, half-a-orown a bottle. Direc-
tions for use in eleven languages. Elliot®
Brothers, Sydney, Wholesale Depot for N.S.W,
The world is getting about too mean to
li\ o In. Some one has enticed away the reporter
who was especially engaged to do the churches.
This is three weeks ago. and now all the clergy-
men are howling for ns to once more send a repre-
sentative. Here is our religions editor’s descrip-
tion “ Scotch terrier persuasion, black body,
grey head, brown legs, stump tail, and cropped
ears.” We believe he has been lured away
by Alfred—for his siyle is very like that of Alf. s
man who does “ Among the Churches.” Whoever
has got him (this is serious), can have his choice
between a cash reward or an original chromo by
our artist, by returning the same toTttn Buixbtin
office. He answers to the name of Mack. ' In
short, our artist’s dog is missing, and the above is
his portrait.
At Gymple, the cemetery drainage runs
Into the creek fiom which people got water for
household purposes. The teetotaller thus drinks
to Kini? Death in that monarch’s own potation.
And as the local high priest of Venus Cloacena de-
posits nlghtsoil in a paddock which also •’orainates
the gully referred to, it seems as if both living and
dead had united in a gigantic effort in the typhoid
Interest.
Thus much from Wallsend, N.8.W.
In the heat of debate, Mr. Alderman Shaw,
Offended by Alderman Owens’s jaw,
Went straight for the latter, and, punching his
head, _ .... , ,,
Took it out in that way for the rough things he d
By process of law, Alderman Owens did seek
For vengeance on Shaw at the hands of the beak.
Whose severe reprimand and stiff flue forced “Ohl
Law!” ....
From the penitent bosom of Alderman Shaw.
The other dav, at Sydney Quarter Sessions,
a fellow named Vesper was found guilty of stealing
a watch and some coin from an inebriated now-
chum—the sort of offen o that a five years’
“stretch” would somewhere about meet: yet
what does District Court Judge Wilkinson do but
apologise to the sneak for the severity of the new
law, which has fixed throe years as the minimum
sentence under such circumstances! 1 Says Wilky:
“ I’ve no option but to sentence you to three years’
hard labour, hut I would recommend you to peti-
tion the Executive.” Now. why should Wilky
regret that such a scoundrel has met his deserts ?
The Chlnky’s sins are glaring
In the face of orthodox warning,
He is caught in the fact
Of an overt act—
Watering greens on Sunday morning!
The rich Wesleyan’s* greenhouse windows
Hide hi* work in the same direction;
So the heathen Chinee
’s made a victim, d’ye see,
For the moral Christian’s correction.
The champion turnip has again made its
appearance—or, rather, its disappearance—having
been presented to the editor of the Cam dbn Times.
It weighed 121h., and space was immediately found
for it. But what we are grieved to observe is that
the monster esculent must have had a bad effect
on the editor. Wo don't say what paiticular part
of him was affected; but it is strange that, in
noticing a concert lower down, lie should say that
Mr. Berry recit-d “Fair Blngie on the Uhyne.”
But, there! we are willing to excuse him. We
dare say if we inserted a 121b. turnip, we should
write a lot of peculiar things. We will give our
subscribers due notice when we do insert one, so
that they can look out for a lot of funny things.
At Cooktown, only one undertaker, Mr.
Beasley, tendered for the "colTln ” contract fur the
hospital. Not so long ago. in England, it was
noticed as a very curious fact that the longest
corpse from a charitable institution nearly always
found lying room in a four-foot coffin, it was not
till the undertaker had made a fortune, turned re-
ligious and built a terrace of houses, that the
truth leaked out. Ho used to chop the cailaoen off
at the knees, and stow the lower extremities under
their arms. He was a cheery fellow, and called the
process inullum in parm. The trick has not
reached Cooktown yet. but they are not behind
there. The hospital chairman--Mr. Cameron—said,
with some warmth, that “ the coffins supplied
should in future be of the proper shape and size,
and not merely square boxes made out of eases us
before.” Possessing" people as smart as this, it’s
no wonder the Queenslanders want New Guinea
for a further display of their talents.
Sir George Wigram Alien has resigned his
seat for the Glebe, and Meeks, Mickey Chapman,
Bob Fowler, and Pritchard are going in for the
chance. As everybody knows, young Fitzpatrick
will come in and try once more. It is rumoured
that Sir G. is going homo to join Sir Henry
Psrkes. If so, it would be funny if Allen,
Parkes, and Hoskins started auctioneering, or
eloped with several countesses. James Hoskins is
not coming back any mure. That JOs. a
week for board used to paralyse him. Wo know
he only paid JOs. here, because wo lived with uim
for a long lime, when lie was Minister for Lands,
but eou'd never got him to set up our thirty for
us. His former landlady now tolls, with tears in
her eyes, how he used to “hump” sandwiches to
the Assembly, and how. even when Minister for
Lands, ho used to secrete bits of bis dinner bread
behind his looking-glass and cover them over
with the boarding-house brush. Mr. Hoskins
never took stimulants, but had a passion for tea
that used to make the other boarders foam. He
had a way of swallowing it in gulps like oysters, so
could give the crowd a start of two cups and a
beating at any time. He always gave them the
beating, by the way, but they never got the start
of the two cups. Hinc— but no, the Echo has
played that out. Mr. Hoskins is living at Kilmar-
nock, N.B., where horrm’sare twenty-seven fora
bawbee.
Here are two little Franco-Australian
stories. In Lonsdale-street, Melbourne, is the
Moisou Donie, a restaurant where they give one
an elegantiv-served and splendidly-cooked dinner
of eight courses, with a small bottle of colonial
wine, for three, ehilliny*. Think of that, ye Sydney
providores, with your high prices, English cooks,
and hideous attendance. Well, some time ago, a
Melbourne elegant “discovered” the Maisou
Dor 6c. and dined there. He was charmed. Every-
body is charmed by the Maison Dorde. Marcus
Clarke was charmed/ old Richard Uirnie (who is
the essayist of the Austraj,asian, and can talk
to you for hours on “Howto dine”) is charmed
too. But to the story. Said our elegant to the
wile of the re*tauraleur—“ Your dinner is Indeed
excellent, Madame.” “ VVetry to give a good dinner,
sir.” “ Have you any private rooms? “ Yes, sir.
“ May one bring a lady ? ’ "You may briny ladus."
P. rhaps some dense people will ask what this all
means. The other story relates to Sy dney. Cap-
tain Mathleu, the Commissioner for France at our
International, was entertained at Sydney Town
Hall, and was complimented by the aldermen on
his excellent English. The Captain sniggered. “At
what were you laughing, Mathleu,” subsequently
inquired one of the gallant officer’s friends, when
m u nudged mo at the table?” “Well,” replied
>, thieu, “one of those aldermen was congratu-
lating me upon ray English, and I felt that 1 could
not possibly return the compliment.”
♦ Exigency of rhyme—" or Presbyterian’s, or
' • Congregattonlet’a, °r etc."
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
The Fijian is proud; the Tougan prouder.
In the delicate language of a country journal, ho—
well, smells with pride. But, as ho never washes,
it is not with pride alone that ho Is hip/i. Yet will
he starve himself to save money for scents and
laces. Surely there is nothing strange in this.
Barring a colonial C.M.G. there is no man with
whom a bucket of lavender water is so likely to
agree In Queensland they have offered a prize
for the best essay on “ Orange Culture.” Include
“ the Evidences of Christianity,” and “theway to
get diamond rings;” allow N.8. Welshmen to com-
pete, and we will back a certain C.M.G. and an un-
certain M.L. A. to knock spots off all competitors.
....Some magnificent ostriches were recently
landed at Townsville en route for the farm to bo
formed at Mr. L. F. Sach’s estate, Derwent Park.
Artificial incubators arc to be used for hatching
the eggs... .The Rum is authorised to state, on the
authority of Mr. Richmond Thatcher, the “ interim
Grand Secretary of the Royal Antediluvian Order
of Buffaloes ” (save us !), that “ a certain self-
styled Buffalo Lodge," at present engaged in the
remunerative occupation ot prosecuting Its late
secretary for embezzlement, “has no proper dis-
pensation.” Paragraphs about “ The Royal Ante-
diluvian Order of Buffaloes!" lend much dignity
to an aspiring daily newspaper. And the Rum Is
nothing if not dignified Rachel weeps for her
children and will not be comforted. They weep,
also, as well as “their maternal.” There’s not a
dry eye in the crowd. The N.8.W. Mont de PieW
Co. cleared £797 last half year, and the pawnbrokers
are taking down their balls and engaging passages
for Palestine....Here is a new phase in English
history. Fox, Burke, and Pitt were hanged in
Parramatta gaol. It may be as well to mention,
however, they were intimate friends of the poetic
pickpocket, Mr. George Barrington, of “true
patriot" memory, and for a time they made
things lively for the aristocracy of their days down
South... This is what a Ooodooga man wrote, the
other day, to the Browarrlna paper: “ A noble and
Bold oaptuary as maid by Mr. Chappord Barrot
after a long Chaise the Hors getting Exhausted
and Mr. Chappord Barrot Began to increase is
speed Rappidly and caught the Rains. . . . Ed-
ward ryan vents Meran ryan. Not gilty, Mrs. ryan
sworn an oath. I am the Wife of Edward ryan. I
Have got some pet Lambs and i told him that 1
would sell Them. He said if you do i will lag you
For soling my property The Bench re-
tired Four or five minutes To desine the case and
said it ought of Been settle this case out of court.”
Canon Barry, who has accepted the Bishopric
of Sydney, is not related to Dr. Zachary Barry, of
the Howl. ..There is but one method of settling
for ever this accursed “ bag ” question. Collect all
the bags in the colony, and sink them just out of
sight or land—taking care that each one contains
a Mail, or a Shroud, or a Down and Gumtree
Jebnel man.,.,There are more libel cases tried in
Queensland than, perhaps, in any other colony, in
proportion to the number of inhabitants. This is
strange. We are surprised that anybody who has
lived any length of time in Queensland has a
character left to defame. But we suppose they are
like lots of people down here —the worse their
characters are, the less they like them meddled
with The nurses in the Bathurst Hospital have
mutinied. One of them, Mrs. Heagan, complained
that a committee-man named Waters had brought
two gentlemen to the hospital, and “ opened her
bedroom door and looked in.” To this Waters re-
plied, “Uh, that was quite a mistake.” The laun-
dress left because two new-churas from Ireland
had come to the hospital and quartered themselves
on the nurses..,Foils and Slammer at Wagga. The
editor ot the Riverine Star has had to publicly
apologise to his brother of the Advertiser, who,
having been dubbed a “ subservient trickster,”
instituted legal proceedings Near Port Darwin,
two aboriginals, one of them an ex-trooper, have
taken to the road armed with revolvers. So tar,
they have been very successful . There is a com-
mlssio sitting on the officials of the Dunedin gaol.
One prisoner swore that on one occasion Sergeant
Watson was so drunk that “he let half the pri-
soners out of their cells.” Should the sergeant
pull through things it may got a trifle lively for
that prisoner —Affable publican: “Tour dogs
very fat, sir. Fray what might you feed him on,
now ?” Stout and genial traveller; " Well, he has
no regular meals; but whenever I take a ‘long
boor,’I give him a biscuit, you know!!” Mona-
ghan, a dog-polsonwr, has found at different times
on a back-block of Moinba, near the Yancanna
track, the skeletons of three men—thought to bo
those of diggers who perished from thirst in the
summer of 1883. while endeavouring; to return
from Mount Browne—The Now Guinea natives
“ hoi I very ■ eoided opinions on the subject of laud
and marriage laws.” Very awkward for the whites.
.. Suicides very common at Charter s To were. The
other Sunday morning Harry Smid, a Dutch
digger, from the Etheridge, staying at Dooley's
Hotel, put a loaded revolver into his mouth and
pulled the trigger. The result is supposed to have
been highly satisfactory to Mr. Smid, inasmuch as
lie lias not since made any complaints to the con-
trary.... “I was as big a fool ns any of them when
I was young,” observed the magistrate sonten-
tlously. “ And you are not an old man now,”
negligently remarked his brother on the bench.
The conversation drooped At the three drives
at Mr. Hosking’s Boramble, over 1000 marsupials
tendered their resignation, and at Caigan 1000
“ I am an informer by profession,” said a witness
at Burrowa Licensing Court Jemmy Hyles,
aboriginal, died under chloroform at Sydney while
being operated on for cataract ot the loft eye by
Dr. Cecil Morgan, who three weeks previously had
successfully operated for cataract or the right eye.
....William Egan and Daniel Soanlan, who stuck
up and robbed Mr. Topham of £1477 at Douglas
Park, sent to gaol for twelve years. Egan some
time ago got £« and a complimentary letter from
the Colonial Secretary in consideration of his bra-
very In assisting at the capture of some bush-
rangers Mr. Kahlo, United States Consul at
Sydney, is about to try and initiate a trade
in coal between Maryborough (Q.) and ’Frisco
A shepherd near Norraanton, with a Hock of rams,
got bushed for ten days. In 340 hours, the strayer
states, he had nothing to eat but two rats and a
little pigweed Harry Smith, who, according to
his mate, “had been drinking moderately,” put
his revolver to his mouth at Charters Towers,
while in delirium tremens, and pulled the trigger
with the desired result “ Jue-armed Jenkins,”
of the Wild River (N.Q.) Miner, slandered some
people, and had to apologise and pay costs. Where-
upon he sent a “ collect ” 4/8 wire to the Cooktown
Herald, saying he had “achieved great triumph ”
in Court. Queer fellows, these bush editors. ..
Two enterprising Auckland girls started a novel
plan for improving their finances. They would
sail into a drapery shop where some impression-
able young man served at the counter, and ask to
see some goods. While being shown, the ladies
would leisurely turn them over, drop a few signifi-
cant remarks, now and then flash up a smile, and
then, selecting a pound's worth of stuff, suddenly
look up at the yielding youth, and suggest that he
might “come round and see” them. The magis-
trate considered this unbusinesslike, and the
ladies have gone up for four weeks At Brewar-
rina, George Forbes was sentenced to two months’
hard labour for having left a team of nine horses
attached to a bogged waggon standing in the river
all night. His delence was that he was too cold to
unharness the horses The Monaro Mercury
says Mr. W, Bulman rode across Biggam Creek
on the Ice, recently, and the ice never broke...
“ Happy Jack,” commander of a clipped wing of
the Salvation Army, was convicted at the Darling-
hurst Criminal Court, on Tuesday, of an indecent
assault on a child of twelve years, the daughter of
another Salvationist. “ Happy Jack ” was distri-
butor of the War Cry, the official organ of flip
Harmy, and the child, who sold copies on the
street, was Inveigled by him into the bush at North
Shore, on the pretence that all of her copies could
be sold there. “Happy Jack” is now jugged for
eighteen mouths.
The Queen lias given £100 to save the
tombstones of the soldiers and sailors who fell in
the Crimea. We planted about 20,000 there. This
will be more than a penny each. Encore —James
Harris, the Florida Orange King, received £17,000
for his last year’s crop of oranges. The New South
Wales Orange King only got—one farthing—Sun-
day before last, fifteen drunkards were arrested in
the Sydney streets. The mystery is how they could
have got drunk, for we know the publlchouses are
closed on Sundays, because the Licensing Act
contains a special clause requiring them to be.
Perhaps they had attended an advanced church in
the morning, and got drunk on unsound doctrine.
... It would appear, judging from recent police
court revelations, that the way to get a certificate
that you are a fit and proper person to take pauper
children to board with you, is—to sober up for
once, fill your mouth with chewing-gum, sit in
church near the lectern, and never take your eyes
off the parson. Next morning you can have what
you want (that doesn’t cost anything), which in-
cludes the parson’s blessing .... The French
Chamber has empowered the Government to
cashier 600 judges. These “judges ’’ are somewhat
similar to our S.M’s. Ohl that our Government
were allowed to dismiss three only, and left the
choice to us! Paymaster Mayers, of the 2nd
battalion of the Berkshire Regiment (that is to say,
the paymaster of the whilom BOtb Foot) found
guilty, per court-martial, of several out of 28
charges of embezzlement. He’s evidently been
going the whole (Berkshire) hog —Mrs. Rees,
monthly nurse, of Glo’ster, Eng., and her husband,
is in an uncomfortable predicament, the bodies of
eight new-born infants having been found buried
in their garden. Coroner’s inquest resulted in
verdict of wilful murder— Says a foolish scribe in
a dull contemporaryIt is utterly Impossible to
conceive of a greater horror than the earthquake
at Ischia.’’ Why, the affair at Ischia, though bad,
was a mere fleablte to the horror of such worries
ns the plague in Naples in 1656, the earthquake in
Sicily in 1693, or the afterclap of the scrimmage
aroung Plevna in 1877—O’Donnell, who killed
Carey, is an American citizen, and will be tried at
Port Elizaheth. Owing to the very mixed nature
of the population in Natal, which consists prin-
cipally of Dutch-descended Boers, Englishmen, and
aborigines, a law prevails that a man tried for a
criminal offence shall have half the jurors on his
case chosen 1 rom members of his own nation: and
ns there are many Americans there, O’Donnell may
not be convicted.
In reply to a deputation of clergyman who
solicited his countenance in enforcing the Licens-
ing’ Act more strictly, Mr. Service, the Victorian
Premier, expressed his conviction that if proper
facilities for Sunday recreation existed, there
would be less infringement of the Sabbath liquor
law. Ho considered that Sunday trains should run
through the country, and Public Libraries be
opened. Precisely. Mr. Service makes no secret
of his opinions on these matters, and a good many
others of a more delicate nature. Now that he has
acquainted thv clergy with his views, there is a
little pleasant surprise in store for him. The
“ proudest moment of his life ” (provided it did not
at the Albury banquet, where he championed
the Quixotic project ot Imperial federation) will
probably occur in a few days when he has to ex-
plain to’ a deputation of Secularists why ho was
absent from his place in the House when the vote
was taken which closed the Melbourne Art Gallery
a few weeks ago. Between the hammer and the
anvil is nothing to it.
The meanest way a girl can refuse an offer
Is by postcard.
It is cabled that Hanlan has accepted Lay-
cock’s challenge to row on the Parramatta Klver
lor £1000 a side.
A book, entitled the “ Wit and Wisdom of
Ouida,” has been compiled (so Public Opinion
tells us) by an American clergyman of the Episco-
pal Church. Surely this is a clerical error.
Mr. Blake, son of the late Queensland
District Court Judge of that name, died at Port
Douglas (iV.'J.), a few days ago, while engaged in
surveying selections on the Mosman River.
Malone offers to run Aplitt or any other
man in Australia 100 or 440 yards for from £200 to
£500 a side. If wo can’t And a man to beat Malone,
whom nobody had ever heard of before he arrived
In the colon v, what becomes of our much-vaunted
athleticism ?
It is said that “Lady” Munro, the most
noted harridan of the Central, and an Incurable
drunkard, is sister to two beautiful members of
the British aristocracy— Lidy Mordaunt, ami the
Countess of Dudley. She is alleged to bo widow of
Major Munro and daughter of Sir Thomas Mon*
crleff, Dart.
Mr. Charles Bright’s lecture at the Gaiety,
last Sunday, attracted a large crowd. His subject
wasth'.' ’‘Theological Profe-slon,” and he handled
it very capably. An orchestra of ten performers
gave harmonious entertainment, and Miss Lydia
Hastings recited in matchless style “ No Sects in
Heaven.” Somewhat similar programme for next
Sunday evening.
Some really lovely divorce cases are loom-
ing. A Southern husband is one plaintiff. He’s
only a carpenter, but the “otner fellow” is a
thorough gentleman—made one by Act of Parlia-
ment. He is a “ criminal ” barrister; at least, that’s
what they call him in the profession. All his
efforts to square the matter with the vulgar car-
penter have been in vain—which is really most
annoying to a man who adorns the upper circles.
In Christchurch, an aggrieved husband
has found that his wife’s ,b< uuty is more than
equalled by her comprehensive affection for a
number of gentlemen who are not her husbands.
She was barmaid In two crack hotels, and, being a
fragile flower, consented to accept successively
the "protection ’’ of about six amorous admirers,
all “well-connected,” who will be asked to tell
their blushing tale of love in the witness-box. One
of them is invited to hand the sensitive husband
£*2000, by way of royalty, for the temporary pro-
prietorship of the lady.
During last week the r»e«ftbora of the C.8.
division of the Lands Department pulled the vari-
ous heats of thmr annual race for Junior double-
scullers. Great interest was man!tested, and after-
noon'after afternoon the staff, from the pompous
fotentate to, the humble hireling, assembled at
reland’s hound together for the time
by one common interest. The winners of the tlnal
heat were MhQdonald and Murray, who came iu
lirst after a severe struggle with Palmer and Croft,
while Dijlon and Wilkinson bore off the third prize
without much difficulty. The winners in their heat
were sorely pressed by Taylor and Davis. The
selection of the trophies occupied the committee,
on Monday, and the presentation took place after
office hours the same day, when suitable speeches
and compliment* made everybody happy.,
THAT DAWG.


The biggest bargains in boots probablv
ever offered the colonial public are to be fou <1
lust now at Hunter’s Boot Palace, Qeorgo-strovt.
The average reduction on the prices for the month
is from 5s, to 7s. 6d in the £.*
Mr. W. H. Paling, of George-street, having
been solicited to present an Instrument for the
Sunday services at the Prince Alfred Hospital -
one can’t pray now-a-days in less than five shares
—not only gave the hospital a flrst-olaas Amcrlc. u
organ to go on with, but volunteered to provide
at bis own cost, or, if It should exceed his uiouls,
with the help of his own friends, an additional
organ, to be specially built to suit the chapel about
to be erected at the hospital.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
a local naper says that the health of the
■p/vne was drunk at the celebration banquet of the
rharteif Towers Orange Lodge, the other night,
pfnr having put ‘a set’ on the Irish priests and
other sedition-mongers in Ireland.” This is a story
of the Benjamin Trovato order.
The New Zealand House of Representatives
hns by a majority of 20, passed a clause in the
ruths Bill, practically abolishing all oaths in
iudicial proceedings. This is a splendid example,
•’hiph it is a pitv we can’t follow over here. Some
Witnesses in P this colony are such born liars, that,
fear of Hell is kept before them, they
oan^fbe trusted to tell the truth. And they can’t
be trusted much even then.
Bishop Pearson, of Newcastle, is evidently
_ man of no originality. The supporters of his
ntprarv escutcheon are “quote marks; its motto
ihould be “ non mem hie eermo.” It’s not by a re-
'hauffo of Coleridge, and bouquets qarnis of Mar-
tinea u and Carpenter, that a victory’s to be won
scepticism. No. Right Reverend Joshua ; you
in .ist trot out some things new as well as old, if you
mean to be aught else than the echoistic echper
“ echoes in an Echo that doesn’t know what
originality is. . ,
The R C. Church in Melbourne is begin-
ning to show a little enterprise. Last week again
if advertised in the leading journals its Sunday
service But it said nothing in the ad. about Mass
or Sermon or Indulgences. It specified the musi-
cal part, giving the singers’ names. Now, this is
enterprise, and it no doubt brought some people
out, but does Dr. Goold forget old traditions 7
Once there was a row in Hatton Gardens because
an ad. was put in the Times stating that Rossini s
“Stabat Mater” would be performed in the
Italian Chapel, and saying nothing of the sacred
rite. Cardinal Manning put his heel on the spirit
of “ biz.”
Mr. Thomas Walker scratched the Devil’s
back most sympathisingly when considering the
consequences of that smash-up of the world. In
fact, he plainly indicated that Secularists would
feel quite at home down below. “ I believe the
climate is a bit hot,” said the lecturer, “but we 11
get used to it; and, after a couple of hundred
years, won’t mind it. Then we’ll have companion-
ship with all the great intellects that have been
kicked out of the churches. We’ll be able to get
a song from Bobby Burns, and a piece of recita-
tion from Shelley, and a verse or two, off and on,
from Lord Byron, and, in the long evenings—
“ Winter ” evenings shall I say ?—Shakespeare will
compose a couple of new dramas, and we 11 see
them acted on the coals. I say it will be a far
better place than where the Christians will be put.
Think of the old fiddle-faced saints, with their
mouths split from ear to ear, eternally hollering
hallelujah!’ ” Nice, is’nt it.?
The eloquent Bishop Moorhouse has com-
menced a series of lectures for the purpose of tell-
ing the Melbourne people all about the ‘ Apoca-
lypse.” There is little doubt now that it was
written by the person whose name it bears, but
this leaves its real meaning still untouched. If it
could be demonstrated with the certainty of a
mathematical problem that it whs Jones and not
Brown who wrote a certain work, but little in-
terest would attach to the demonstration if the
work Itself was valueless. Says Dr. Mooi'house:—
“Surely there is no sceptic on earth, not Voltaire
himself, who would not value such a book above
gold and rubies.” This is the prevailing—vice. If
you will, of scholars. Euclid’s demonstrations of
two thousand years ago are prized to-day—not be-
cause they are old, but because they are true. But
for their truth, their age would never ensure their
being regarded as other than mathematical hric-d-
hrac. The greatest European scholars devote
years to the “Apocalypse’’ and kindred works.
In despair they throw them by, saying: “We
can make nothing of them.” No two men ever
agreed regarding this work—whether under the
guise of a vision, it conveyed deep spiritual
truths, or whether it is a tale told by an idiot, full
of sound and fury, signifying nothing, if the
Bishop can tell us what it all means he will confer
on Australians a knowledge not enjoyed anywhere
else. The great English statesman, on reading
Paloy’s “Natural Theology,” a work which was
supposed to squelch all sceptics, simply remarked :
“A truly admirable book—but it raises more
doubts than it lays.” So with “ Revelation.” Oh!
the long line of healthy, level-headed men, sound
of wind, strong of limb, cheerful of mind; men
for whom life opened with vistas of happiness,
never to be traversed—never to bo enjoyed, be-
cause, in an evil hour, they heard of John and his
book. From that moment till the last sleep of all
overtook them they loafed about, lean, untidy-
seeing visions and dreaming dreams—a nuisance to
their neighbours when they weren’t in the village
stocks.
A Latin Life of St. Patrick haa been found
in Brussels. Our knowledge of the saint has
hitherto being drawn from the “ Book of Armagh,”
ascribed to the ninth century. The newly-found
manuscript supplies many blanks, particularly in
his early history, before he started west. From the
beginning, he was a remarkable child, and cut his
wisdom-teeth at an age when others were howling
for rattles and lollipops. In the light of the now
discovery, the legend that—
“ His father was a Callaghan,
His mother was a Brady,
His aunt was an O’Shaughnessy,
His unole was a Grady,”
will have, it is feared, to be abandoned. This is a
little hard on the Callaghans, Bradys, &o.; but the
office of the historian is to tell the truth, and not
reconcile genealogies. The cause of Patrick’s
“footing-it” towards the setting sun is given tor
the first time. You have already guessed it. Yes,
there was a lady—a widow—in the case. She
wasn’t a widow when he knew her first, but her
husband went to call on a neighbour one day-
thinking he was from home—and, according to the
custom of those hospitable times, brought a
number of his retainers with him. They were
armed with scythes, reaping-hooks, paving-stones
—anything that came handy—and were chuckling
to think of the spree they would have when their
neighbour’s few men-at-arms were comfortably
knocked on the head and thrown down the well.
But this same neighbour (a MaoTaggart) had not
been born on the preceding Saturday night, and
was grinning behind a parapet when h)s friend's
rollicking servitors came up the carriage-drive.
Five minutes afterwards they were dangling like
bananas, one over the other, from the flagstaff.
Patrick was suspected of knowing more about the
affair than he let on, and so the place getting too
hot for him, he turned his steps to Ireland, where
they wore a peaceable and contented people, and
have been ever since. On his way he met many
strange bedfellows—but space compels us to
desist.
A clergyman and a scientist! It is a sus-
picious amalgam at the best. When a man com-
bines the two offices, he usually starts at 35 to show
that the seven days of creation were not days at
all. but something else—“ periods ” of indefinite
duration, during which (although there was no
sun) some other arrangement was made for light.
This passes away the time till he is 40. He then
commences to pick out all the woof he spent
fifteen years in fixing, and starts afresh. The next
twenty years are occupied in reconciling the two
opposing accounts of the creation. This puts him
wdl on to the “deluge.” On the way, he shows
how the ages of the antediluvian should ba
“months,” and not “years,” until some one sug-
gests that this reading would make boys of eight
or t*n fathers of families. Then he dismisses the
matter, and tackles the “ deluge," which he opines,
like Hugh Miller, to have been “partial,” and not
“general.” Some few millions of Asiatic square
miles sank conveniently down when they saw
the rain coming, and formed a basin for
the occasion. When it Is hinted that, as the
Water flowed over the top of the basin, it
would probably find its own level and reach
America, be thinks there is something 1 in it, and
passes on to something else. The ‘'R rt, phots
next attract his attention, but, when he finds that,
like modern Spiritualists, whatever truths they
told wbre invariably known before, while, when
they launched out on a little prophecy on their
own account, they were as invariably wrong, he
begins to think of trying back. It is then about
time to die, so he calls his children around him (he
always has plenty of those), blesses them, and tells
them that the Bible is the secret of England s
greatness. His exegetical works never get beyond
presentation volumes, while his scientific ones are
found in sceptics’ coal-scuttles. In the latter
he never gets beyond the “ Old Red Sand-
stone.” All this is apropos of a visit that (so the
paper tells us) “the well-known clergyman and
scientific gentleman, the Rev. Father Temson-
Woods,” has paid to Bundaberg. Amen. [N.B.—
We have just heard that the rev. scientist belongs
to an order pledged to celibacy. We, therefore,
promptly withdraw the “ children ” clause.]
• • •
In the Australian wilds two men have
been brought up for discharging firearms on
Sunday, and four others for carrying them. How
long, 0 Lord, how long ?....Blackall, the capital of
the Barcoo, which starves out its clergy, and has
at present no church, is now procuring an Angli-
can minister.... Writing of a visit made to the
Scots Church in Melbourne, the correspondent of a
country paper says : “ He (Mr. Dods) made a good
point, however, when he said that every man has
three characters. The first as he is known to his
fellow men, the second as be is known to himself,
and the third as he is known to his Maker.” It Is a
very good point, and Is to be found in Oliver W.
Holmes. The clergyman might have told his con-
gregation so, and might also have quoted
correctly So a young man in a Colae .(Vic.) -
1 Presbyterian Church took fir® through tarry-
ing phosphorus In his pockets. Oulte a change,
this. Hitherto phosphorus and brimstone have
been found only in the pulpit....The new
curate in Tamworth is said to be nervous
when preaching. We should say so. To sec so
much wickedness gathered under one roof would
make a gallows nervous....At a meeting of the
United Methodist Free Church of Bur wood, one
rev. speaker said that another had “ left his foot-
prints in the sands of time.’’ We are not sure
about “the sands of time," but wo are about those
of Bondi; and, having lately tracked him, we can
honestly say that, if in these days the sands were
left untouched to preserve and hand down through
the ages the traces loft by those crossing thorn, wc
would wish to bo present at that meeting in the
dim future when the rev. gentleman's petrified
indentations are discovered and examined. What
whaleboats they hod in those days! — Moncure
Conway, tho groat “ Thelst" preacher, undertakes
his Australian tour for pecuniary reasons, accord-
ing to tho World. This is open, at any rate, and
means he is on the war-path tor coin. Conway is
a hunky boy, and does not do the Jo Cook business,
but hangs out his colours boldly—“Money, and
nothing nut money, so help me, never.”.....More
Orange religion. An Episcopalian clergyman,
universally liked not only by bis own people but
by tho H.C. adherents as well, had tho audacity to
listen to a U.C. lecture, and to visit an U. C,
bazaar. For these crimes, on t he motion of a bush
blacksmith, member of the L.O.L., H« ha* been
expelled the Order.
♦ * •
At St. Bartholomew’s Chureh, Cllayeress,
the sacramental wine was stolen and Ink substi-
tuted. The llrst man to start on the fresh tap was
the publican, and he was obliged to swallow so
much blotting-paper that serious oonsequenoes
are anticipated A church has recently beeu .or-
ganised in N.Y. on the basis of pure Theism, for
the spiritual worship of one only God, Creator of
the Universe and Father of Mankind. The r--
qulrement of membership is to be simply a hung -
ing and thirsting after righteousness. The rlt
baptism is to be retained as a “ symbol of purlt
and the Lord’s Supper Is to be replaced by a " t*-
inorial supper,” participation in which Is to sym-
bolise communion with the pure souls of history,
Jesus being chief.
Rubbish is not to be SHOT here!


315 George Street.
A few of our undertakings MOST SUCCESS
FULLY carried out, among which will be found
the LARGEST, MOST DIFFICULT, and MOST
RESPONSIBLE events that have taken place since
the opening of this establishment.
His Worship the MAYOR’S PICNIC, for 450, at
Clontarf.
His Worship the MAYOR’S BALL, for 1600, Exhi-
bition Building, at which his Worship, John
Harris, entertained their B.H.’s PRINCES AL-
BERT and GEORGE, EARL OLANWILLIAM,
and the Officers of the Detached Squadron.
MASONIC BALL. English Constitution, for 1238,
Exhibition Building.
MASONIC BALL, N.8.W. Constitution, at Town
Hall, Sydney.
Visit of their R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Llthgow Valley Mines and Zigzag.
Dinner a la Rime, for 10. in Government Palace
Dining Car while travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000 SCHOOL CH
DREN —re Queen’s Statue Demonstration—under
VERY SHORT NOTICE, only receiving the
order at 2.30 p.ra., to be ready on the spot at 12.30
p.m. the following day.
Visit of THEIR R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Captain Cook’s Landing, south side
of Botanv Bay. Pionie luncheon and refresh-
ment;for100, under VERT SHORT NOTICE, re-
oeiving order at 9.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot
at 1 p.m. following day.
The LADY MAYORESS’ RECEPTIONS, Town
Hall.
The UNION CLUB BACHELOR’S BALL, at Ex hi.
bition Building, for 600.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE WINDEYBR.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE INNBS.
Dinner 4 la Rime at St. Paul’s College, for 150 Mem-
bers of the OBURCH OF ENGLAND
i SYNOD.
Dinner d la Rime to the INTERCOLONIALR1F1 B
TEAMS, Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at HAWK18
BURY RACES, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at RAND-
WICK RACES, in Grand Stand.
The CONSULAR DINNER, in our new Banquet
Boom.
ABMIDALE RAILWAY Demonstrations. Ban-
auet for 400; MAYOR’S BALL, 600, same evening
and CITIZEN’S BALL, 500, the following even-
ing.
ALBUBY-WODONGA RAILWAY DEMONSTRA-
TION —Grand Government Banquet for 1016
at Albury. Grand Ball. 800, following night.
Children’s feast, 1184, the following afternoon
and evening. Also, Breakfasts, Dinners, Teas,
and Suppers, in Government Dining Car, to
His Excellency Lord Augustus Lobtus, the
Ministry, and Ms.P., while travelling to and
from Banquet, Ac., Ac.
Numerous Banquets and Entertainments by HIB
WORSHIP THE MAYOR at Town Hall, See.
Numerous Dinners A la Rums in the N.S.Vr
GOVERNMENT PALACE DINING CAR while
travelling by rail, on account of the GOVERN
MBNT.
Together with a numerous lot of Private Dinners,
Feasts, Weddings, Garden Parties, Bolls. Tea
Meetings Land Sales, Suppers, Picnics, Fishing
Excursions, &c.
w
’ILCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn shellers
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
&c. Ac. Ac.
HEBBLE WHITE & CO,
416 GEORGE STREET.
CADET EXAMINATION, 8UBVBV OFFICE.
TT is hereby notified that an Examination of
JL Candidates for Employment as Cadets In the
Department of the Surveyor-General will bo held
early in November next. The exact date, when
fixed, will be duly notified. Candidates must have
attained the age of 18 years, or they will not be
eligible for examination.
Intending competitors can obtain further in-
formation upon applying by letter to the Surveyor-
Generai, or personally to the Secretary and
Cashier.
(S.gued) P. F. ADAMS,
Surveyer-Gonoral.
Surveyor-General’s Office,
Sydney, 32nd Juno, 1883.
Department of Public Works and Mines.
Brisbane, 13th July, 1883.
TO ARCHITECTS.
NEW PUBLIC OFFICES, BRISBANE.
COMPETITIVE designs are Invited from Archi-
tects for the new Public Offices proposed to
bo erected in Brisbane: to bo sent in on or before
30th November ncxr, addressed to the Under Secre-
tary for Public Works. Brisbane. First prize, £300;
second, £300; third, £100.
Conditions, with plan and levels of ground, can
b* obtained on application at this Office, or at the
Public Works Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, and
Adelaide.
EDWARD DEIGHTON,
Under Secretary.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 23rd July, 1883.
TENDERS FOB TAR-PAVING AND REPAIRS.
TENDERS are invited for TAR-PAVING and
REPAIRS to the PETERSHAM PUBLIC
SCHOOL.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained, at the office of the Department
of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Tar-paving and
Repairs, Petersham Public School,” must be lodged
with the Acting Under Secretary, Department of
Public Instruction, on or before 10 o’clock a.m. on
Wednesday, the 16th August, 1883.
The Minister does not biud himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
G. H. REID.
Robert butcher & co,
(Late William Long),
|2 W WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
531 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. 2v£a,t - a.xed.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.8.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It Is bottled In bond for Ex> rt at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, t refore, rely that it
has not been In the hands of “ hiskey Doctors."
When you ask for It, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. In diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.8.W. and Queensland.
YDROPATH Y.-MR. JOSEPH REEVE;
Hydropathic Physician.
An Infallible System of Purification for the Cure
of Coughs, Colds Acute or Chronic I ndigestlon, Con-
stipation, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Paralysis, Liver
Complaint, Skin Eruptions, or any other Inflam-
matory Diseases. All persons who are suffering,
and weary of using physic, and hopeless, are in-
vited to adopt this Hygiene System. A few weeks’
treatment will suffice for nearly every case.
Ladies and Children attended to. In-door Patients
received at the Establishment. Terms on
application.
“Throw physio to the dogs. I’ll none of it.”—
Shakespeark.
“Purification in the old law did save life.” Milton.
Address:
8 Royal Terrace, Nicholson Street,
FITZROY, MELBOURNE.
SOHO BAZAAR,
352 GEORGE STREET
(Paling’s Old Premises).
THIS BAZAAR, which has Just been OPENED
will be found to contain a superior assort
mont of
Brie a Br&c, Articles of Vert ft,
Terra Cotta, Chinaware, &c.,
and all varieties of
FANCY GOODS AND TOYS.
Wo draw attention to the following few lines :—
Tricycles, all sizes, from 38s.
Automatic Ink Pencil, Is.
43-iuch double leather Rug Straps. Is. pair
French Dolls, at all prices
French Models, from Is.
Travellers’ Leather Inkstands, Is.
Gent’s superior Dressing Cases. 31s.
Parian Marble Figures, from 5s. (id.
Work Baskets, at all prices.
INSPECTION INVITED.
Bazaar
352 George Street.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOhACOO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
■rganise, organise at once, so that everyone can
•nnoke a doeent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
vlth a moderate price.
HEYOE, TODMAN & CO.,
YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Department of Public Instruction,
eydney, 2nd August, 1883.
TENDERS FOR ADDITIONS.
TBNDEKS are invited for additions to the Pub-
lic School Buildings at Burwood.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained, at the office of the Department
of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Pender for Additions, Bur-
wood Public School,” must be lodged with the
Under Secretary, Department of Public Instruc-
tion, at or before 10 o’clock a.m., on Wednesday.
the 39th August, 1883.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
G. H. REID.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 3nd August, 1883.
TENDERS FOR TEMPORARY BUILDING.
TENDERS are invited for the erection of a
Temporary Wooden Building for Public
School purposes at Gunnenbeue near Carroll.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained, at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney, and at the
Gunnenbeue Public School on application to the
Teacher.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Temporary
Wooden Building, Gunnenbeue Public School
must be lodged with the Acting Under Secretary
Department of Public Instruction, at or before 1C
o clock a.m., on Wednesday, the 39th August 1888
The Minister does not bind himgelf to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
0. H. REID.
W. Howard Smith and Sons,
STRUTH’8 WHARF and NEW WHARF
(Foot of King: Street).
Offices ; 42 KING STREET.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Brisbane to Port Mackay and Townsville
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
♦ To arrive.
W. HOWARD SMITH and SONS,
43 King Street, Sydney.
1NITH AND !M A N N E L L,
SHIRT TAILORS, HOSIERS, & MERCERS,
298 George Street, Sydney.
Established 1844.
Our CELEBRATED WHITE SHIRTS, ready made
80s., 40s., 50s., 60s. the half-dozen.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1809.
INCORPORATED by ACT of PARLIAMENT, 1878
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £127,500
Directors *
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Homw Mort, M.L.C.
George 8. Calrd, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gldley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., O.M.G.
Auditors:
Jas. Scroggle, Esq. | Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: I Secretary;
F. A. A. Wilson. I Hector Allen.
Branches :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern. Glralamhone,
Gosford, Nyngan, and Bourke.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
London Office: 196 Leadenhall-street
Director; Bdward Chapman, Bsq.
Agent: G. H. Alexander, Beq.
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted dally.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wool
and other produce shipped to England tor sale.
Bad Legs, Constitntional
Diseases, &c.
To Mr. Cooper, 340 Crewn-street.
For five years 1 suffered Intensely with bad legs;
I have been treated by our best doctors, and I ha te
tried nearly every remedy procurable, bat I gene-
rally grew worse Instead of bettor. My age Is 52,
and I fully expected to suffer for the'rest of my
life, until 1 heard of some of your cures, and
before 1 had been a week under your treatment I
was bettor. My legs are quite healed, and I never
felt better in my life than I do now.—Mrs. E.
Harden, Tate-street, North Shore.
To M r. Cooper.
I wish to make known the benefit of your treat-
ment In my ease. I had bad legs for two years,
and could get no relief anywhere ; you cured me
in less than a month.—R. T. Eastway, Eastway
Brothers, Qeorge-street.
To Mr. Cooper.
I beg to add my testimony to the efficiency of
your treatment. I had a bad leg for 16 months ; I
was under the care of three doctors, but when I
came to you I was worse than before. My leg is
now quite healed, and I am well. I give you this,
so that others suffering may know wnere to go to
get cured.—Jambs M. Floyd, Falrford-street,
Petersham.
Other Testimonials too numerous to print.
Hundreds of people in New South Wales can
testify to the cures effected by H. W. Cooper’s in-
vention, and he has only been In the colony nine
months.
H. W. COOPER, 340 Crown-street,
Opposite Reservoir.
Advice gratis.
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
®3T" THE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco of the Age !
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The only Tobacco combining Excellence of Quality
with Economy In Price.
JST Each PLUG Is STAMPED with the word
“EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain It.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
Saywell’s Tohcci Go., Lin.
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
And can be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse,
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO.
Registered according to Act of Parliament, to pro-
tect the public against spurious and worthless
imitations.
Emil Paterson,
ARCHITECT AND CIVIL ENGINEER,
No. 4 PITT STREET.
W. H. PALING,
352 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Pianofortes,
Pianofortes,
Pianofortes.
By the following renowned English, French, and
German Makers:—
Erard
Pleyel
Collard & Collard
Broadwood & Sons
Klrkman
Soufleto
Frost & Co.
Lipp & Sohn
Anchor Elcke
Ronlseh Paling & Co.
Hundt & Sohn A. Bord
Bluthner Berden & Co.
Steinway Herz
Schiedmayer Schwechten
Challen & Son Schwander
Ecke Forster
And numerous other Manufacturers.
ORGANS by Bunn & Co., Palace Organ Company;
Waters & Co., Pelodbbrt, and others.
Bell & Co's. Celebrated Organs, besides other
Awards, gained First and Special Prize over all
others at the recent Sydney Exhibition.
HARMONIUMS bt Alexander & Co., etc.
A Splendid Stock of MUSIC always on hand.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
Owing to W. H. P.’s, removal to those immense
promises, next door, lately occupied by Prince,
Ogg and Co., the present Magnificent Stock will be
sold at REDUCED PRICES at
W. H. PALING’ S,
353 GEGRGE STREET.
tlMlN
CHAMPION
'SlfNCINK
AND
<t *1
SAW
FTeOS
MIUS
Mills
jnran
sM 8 *
aryii -
FLEMING’S Carriage and Machinery Repository
32 and 38 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MOULTON’S
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured hr MOULTON’S
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, Hot merely relieved, and
•ve cun prove what we say. There are no failures and no
lisappolntmontg. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
dl BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
i’RPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relievo distress from too
isarty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
aimulata the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
mown, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit),
''hey are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, I»rice Is. 3d.
C. E, MOULTON, Sole Proprietor,
PILLS
Vj
mar
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT.—This favourite brand
»f Stout selected with great care from the
best of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
cannot be excelled. To be procured everywhere*
CATTELL & CO., Sole Agents,


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
vc, shall be glad to have this index posted up by
Jcretarlesof racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general .]
RACING.
Maryborough (Q.) T.C August 9,10.
Tattersall’s Club August 11.
nnhbo J C September 31, 22.
NarmbriJ.C.. October 3. 4.
aJanotr Turf Club October 6.
\fictoria T Amateur T.C October 13, 20.
Wollongong T.C October 17,18.
Victoria R.?!. Soring November 3,8,8,10.
Parramatta J.C, November 9.
riarenee River J.C. (Amateur) November 9.
MurrumWdgee T.C.' November 21, 32,
Narandera J.C November 29, 30.
Liverpool J. C December 22.
AQUATICS
Amateur Canvas Dingy Club (Formal
oy Opening Season) September.
New South Wales Association Regatta . .October 6.
Svduev Amateur Canvas Dingy Club latClasa
3 Race October 13.
COURSING
N.S.W. Club August 10.
Victoria Club August |2.
Ballarat Club August 28.
Australian Club August 29.
ATHLETICS.
Edwards v. O'Leary, 6 days’ walk August 6.
Six Days’ Walking Sweepstakes, Sydney
August 6 to 12.
R Murphy v. W. Franks, mile walk.. .September 6.
Wallsond Athletic Club Meeting November 9.
FOOTBALL.
Svdnev v. Brisbane Clubs, at Brisbane
... August 15,16,18, 33.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
At Groulburn, the Burwood footballers de-
feated the local team by 5 points to 4.
Nearly all the sporting tipsters pick Stock-
well for the Melbourne Cup. unlucky horse I
The Melbourne and New Zealand Cups
will this year be run on the same day—the 6th
November.
Morpeth, Hawthornden, and Cunnamulla
are favourites for the Hawkesbury, at 10 to 1.
Morpeth carries the most public money.
There will be some good racing on Satur-
day at Randwick. Tattersall's Club has provided
six races, and the winners are hard to pick.
That phenomenal runner, William Cum-
mings, defeated William Steele in a flve-mile race,
at New York, on l«th June, in 36m. 34sec. Steele
was unwell, and retired after covering four miles.
On 30th September, at Charters Towers,
Edward Hillyard, of Charters Towers, and a N.S.W.
aboriginal, Cumbadello Billy, race 300 yards, for £200
a side. A deposit of £50 has been made. The
darkey receives £40 from Hillyard for expenses.
An American exchange states that “Han-
lan says he only learned to swim last summer. The
muscles of his arms quickly become tired, a re-
markable fact for a man of his strength. His wife
is urging him to retire from his profession, and he
will probably soon yield to her solicitations ”
So far, the best gallops at Randwiok course,
which is in fine condition for the coming events,
have been done by Segenhoe, Morpeth, Despot,
Yately, Balmoral, Martini-Henry, Aberfoyle, Lord
of the Lake, Sardonyx, Cunnamulla, Pell Mell,
Norman, Boniface, Hawthornden, and First
Demon. Silver Arrow, Hypatia, Oaractacus, and
Kingsdale have not been shaping well.
The Adelaide R.C. had wet weather for
their Steeplechase meeting on Saturday last.
Hotspur made an easy win of the Hunters’ Steeple-
chase. The New Zealand horse Agitation appro-
priated the Hurdles ; the Fulham Plate fell an
easy victory to Helene ; Footstep won the Duke’s
Handicap ; and the Selling Steeplechase was won
by Trigger.
Mr. Henry Coles, whose n ame has been so
long associated with the Mercantile Rowing Club
and Rowing Association, will shortly leave for
England, where he intends to permanently reside.
Mr. Coles has, without doubt, done as much in the
interests of N.S.W. rowing as any man in the
colony, and his absence from the Association will
not tend to improve matters when the trouble
which we see looming in the distance comes upon
it.
Sydney has added—and not before it was
wanted—to its list of boat-builders by the impor-
tation of J. Dodd, who hails from the well-known
shed of Clasper, England. Dodd has taken up his
quarters at Yates’ old shed, Lavender Bay, where
he now has a wager-boat nearly finished. The
boat is well put together, and worth the inspection
of rowing men, more especially as Dodd's prices
are more akin to English than colonial.
There is no truth in the rumour that
Trickett refused to make a second match with
Beach. As a matter of fact, Trickett stated thar
he had no objection to row, but stipulated that the
stakes should be £300 aside, to which offer Beach’s
backers made no response. We are of opinion that
on a calm day, Beach’s staying powers would stand
to him, and he would defeat the long 'un, but in
anything like a jobble, Trickett is completely his
master.
At a recent country meeting, not far from
Avenel (Vic.), two horses, a grey and a bay, started
in the Final Flutter. The race was a grand one al I
through till the straight run was entered, when
the grey had a decided advantage. But a dog ran
across the track, whereon the grey swerved and
lest the race by a couple of lengths. But the
judge, an Irishman, was equal to the occasion, for,
on being asked for his decision, he yelled: “ Dead
hate—the grey horse would have wan but for the
dog.”
The Steeplechase at the Sale (Vie.) Winter
meeting, last Thursday, resulted in the usual blood-
letting for both man and beast. Every horse came
early to grief with the exception of Ooomete, and
he, poor brute, smashed his near pastern at the last
jump, and hobbled in on three legs. Ashton, the
rider of Speculator, was picked up with a dislo-
cated thigh. Friendless won the Selling Hurdle
Race. The Winter Handicap fell to Transferred.
Miller appropriated the Handicap Hurdle Race,
and Byron had a walkover for the Selling Stakes.
As we anticipated, the report that Lord
Chas. Beresford had beaten Mace, turns out to be a
hoax. Mace, writing to the London Sportsman, ask-
ing that journal to contradict the rumour, states
that since his return to England he has sparred only
with Slade, and an Englishman named Prussian;
“ but,” says the ex-champion, “should his lordship
desire it, 1 shall be proud to spar with him on the
occasion of my farewell representations at the
Free Trade Hall, Manchester: or, if he would
prefer a lesson from a younger man, my pupil
would be on hand, as usual, only too happy to
oblige.”
We give this par. for the edit!cation of the
N.S. Wales Rowing Association. Owing to the row
With respect to the admission of working men, the
S.A. Rowing Association has been, by the vote of
the majority, dissolved. The result of this is that
two associations have been formed, one including
the South Adelaides, Norwoods, and Ports, and the
other the purely amateur element, as represented
in the I Zingari and the various banking clubs. By
the way, the Glebe Amateur Regatta committee
disqualified the Balmain Mechanics’ Club crew who
came in first in the maiden four-oars.
The latest scandal in English sporting
circles is that Peck, after winning the Orange Cup,
offered it to Wales, who was a heavy loser by
Peck's win, and that the Prince had accepted it.
Wales’s friends, however, state that he indignantly
refused the Cup when offered as a gift, but that he
paid Peck £600 for It. This explanation only
makes matters worse, and t ere Is some talk of
having both Peek and the Prince disciplined, ac-
cording to turf ethics, for dealing in prizes. It is
stated Peck refused £1000 for Barcaldine before he
won the Orange Cup.
Rigl, the French wrestler, has a playful
habit of pressing his closely-cropped head against
an opponent’s breast till he “constitutes a raw.”
Some time ago the American wrestler Whistler—
whoso hair Is something akin to pigs’ bristles—in a
match with Muldoon. operated upon him in the
same manner, to such an extent that Muldoon’s
chest did not heal fur three months, and he still
bears the scars of the encounter. By the way,
there is talk of a match being made between Mul-
doon and a French athlete named Bernard, who is
stated to be the strongest man in Paris
Cobbett, the impudent gormandiser, who
visited Australia with the last English cricket team
hasnow the honour of being London correspondent
of the Tam worth News, and in that capacity re-
marks: —“ There is talk of sending your Amateur
Champion Swimmer over here. If he is to come
for racing purposes, advise him not to take the
journey unless he is a gate-money man. That ho
can make, but he will not have much chance of
winning races in good company. Barring young
Cavill of Sydney—who would do well for his age, I
do not think your swimmers are good enough.”
We wonder why Cobbett thinks our swimmers
aren’t good enough. We have an idea that even
in England they don’t make them much better
than Walter MTndoe.
At the first championship meeting for
Scottish athletes at Edinburgh, all the previous
best-on-records for professional throwing were
beaten. These previous records, as made by D. C.
Ross, the American champion, are given within
brackets before the Edinburgh record: 211b.-ham-
mer, handle 3ft. 6in. (78ft.), G. Davidson, Aberdeen,
79ft.; 161b.-hammer, handle 4ft. (100ft. 31n.), G.
Davidson, Aberdeen, 103ft. lin.; 121b .-hammer,
handle 4ft. 116ft. 6in.), G. Davidson, Aberdeen,
118ft. 6in.; 561b.-weight (25ft. G. Davidson,
26ft. lin.; 211b.-ball-putting (36ft. llin.), G. David-
son, 37ft. 3in.; 161b.-ball-putting (43ft. O.
Duffy, Edinburgh, 44ft. G. Davidson, 43ft.
4><>in.; 141b .-ball-putting (46ft. J4in.), O. Duffy, 46£t.
7in.
Flue weather for the Casino races on
Thursday and Friday last. Glengarrie beat the
favourite, Ferryman, tor the Maiden Plate: Grey
Dawn won the Corinthian Race; Fugleman had an
easy victory in the Casino Handicap; for the Pub-
lican’s Purse, Ferryman reversed the verdict of the
Maiden Plate, and beat Glengarrie by a length; and
Lancer beat Dochester by two lengths for the
Sires’ Produce Stakes. The second day’s racing
opened with the Corinthian Stakes, which Alma
won after a great race with Maocaroni and Grey
Dawn; Recruit boat Fugleman by three lengths
for the Club Handicap; Forester won the Flutter.
The Count gave a good account of himself in the
Hack Race; and Maroney beat Shamrock by a bare
neck for the Flying Handicap.
The University Athletic Club sports came
off on the bank holiday, at the Association Cricket
Ground. T. H. Daley secured a leg in for the 100
yards’ Challenge Cup; James won the 300 yards’
Schools; F. Daley won the 150 yards’ Handicap
from scratch; the Half-mile Handicap fell to C. B.
Purser; 8. P. Jones kicked the football 56 yards,
and won: D. H. Beegling won the300yards'College
Handicap; 8. Jamieson came in first for the 130
yards' Hurdle Race; Strand won the Maiden Mile
walk; B. 0. Wood won the Mile Bicycle Handicap;
The Quarter-mile Handicap fell to H. Merewother;
W. Bennett won the 300 yards’ Handicap; the Mile
Handicap fell to C. B. Purser; D. H. Beegling
scored another win in the Undergratuates’ 360
yards; E. J. Raper proved the best dribbler; P.
James’ number went up for the Strangers’ 300
yards; and B. Raper won the 150 yards Forced
Handicap.
The little town of Newcastle, New Bruns-
wick, has offered a bonus of £300 to have the pro-
posed double-scull race. Hanlan and Lee v. Ham
and Conley, decided on the Miramichi River there.
How much will Sydney subscribe to induce Hanlan
to row on the Parramatta? Mr. Hunt, of the
Oxford Hotel, Sydney, sends out by the mail a
challenge to Hanlan on behalf of Laycock for
£1000. Now, of course no reasonable man wants
the old agony revived. Hanlan, if he comes, will
beat Laycock again just as he beat him before,
and. if he rows Trlckett (whom Mr. Hunt likewise
backs against the champion for £1000), he will also
beat him— just as he has beaten all and sundry in
England and America. There can be but one good
reason for Hanlan visiting us. Our rising oars-
men—who, and where are they, by the way ?—may
possibly “geta wrinkle ” from the Canadian. But
Hanlan’s advent in Australia, regarded merely as
a means of bringing about mysterious races with
a lot of wheezing old stagers, promoting betting,
and inducing a lot of loafers and blacklegs to
assemble round the doors of one of the best hotels 1
in Sydney, would be a mistake. Perhaps, as wo j
can’t have the good without the bad, we shall have
both. We shan’t be very glad if Hanlan comes,
nor shall we be deeply grieved if he stays away.
Vanderbilt, the American millionaire and
turfman, has trotted his famous pair, Maud S. and
Aldine a mile in 3tnin. 15HJsec. It is wonderful
how the mile record has been cut down by Ameri-
can teams within the past few years. It was
thought a great performance when Vanderbilt
drove Small Hopes and Lady Mack a mile in 3min.
36sec., and when he cut it down to 2min. 2416sec.,
it was talked of for some months. Frank work
then came forward with Dick Swlveller and
Edward, reduced the record to 3min. 19sec., and
one day sent the pair a slashing mile in 2min.
I6I4S00. This put Vanderbilt on his mettle, and
ho broughtout Aldine and Early Rose, but although
he stated he had one day out down the record, it
was[generally disbelieved,and he declined to take
up Work’s wager of £2000 that ho could not do it
again with the same pair. He then began to look
about for a match for his wonder, Maud S, and dis-
covered one in his own rnare, Aldine, whoso single
record is only 3min. 18sec„ but when harnessed
with Maud 8., the latter’s terrific pace carried her
along, and Vanderbilt was as happy as a boy when
he trotted the pair a mile in 2min. in the
presence of his rival and a host of friends. This
is extraordinary time, when it is considered the
pair were in a road waggon weighing two hundred
and ten pounds, and their driver, Vanderbilt,
weighed fifteen stone. A great many turfmen
believe the record will bo cut down by teams to
1 wo minutes before long. The trainer of Maud 8.
says she will do 2min. S-too. before the summer is
out. Nobody believes it, however. Vanderbilt’s
stables are superb. He has six stablemen, four
grooms, a couple of coachmen, and throe trainers,
and every home has a box-stall. At present he has
twelve fast road horses in his stables, all famous
animals.
Last Saturday turned out a damp, bad day
for the Bicycle Race meeting, held on the Associa-
tion Cricket Ground, as rain fell almost without
Intermission during the afternoon. The Milo Ama-
teur Championship fell through, owing to the
stipulated number of starters railing to put in an
appearance. Young Wood showed up well as a
bicyclist— if he does much more of Saturday’*
gruelling work, the next thing he will show up In
will bo a few feet of his namesake In the shape of
a coffin. The scoring board, supposed to show the
results of the various races, was worked In a most
extraordinary manner. The result of the Tricycle
Race remained up nearly the whole afternoon, and
the final of the Open Milo Handicap was not posted
at all. The Ten Miles Championship was, without
doubt, the grandest race ever trundled on the
ground. Wood and Bennett took the lead, with
Godwin and Moyse close up, till the sixth lap,
when the two latter came to grief, and it
was such a mixed up spill that, in starting
off again, they fixed up on each others bicycles
and wont some 50 yards before they noticed their
mistake. Godwin then gave up, as his machine
was damaged, but Moyse continued on till the
twenty-second lap, when ho also retired. The two
loaders raced neck-and-neck, leading alternately,
till 100 yards from home, when Bennett extended
himselt, and won by some yards. This was not a
popular win, as Bennett is a “blarsted Britisher.”
For the Open Handicap Milo, the first heat re-
sulted—Lam bton, Fergus, and M’Crae ; the second
—Lester, Copland, and Wood ; and the fin d fell
to W. H. Lester. A. Lloyd won the 100 yards foot-
race in 10% seconds. E. L. Samuel distinguished
himself by coming in last in the slow race. H. C.
Wood, notwithstanding his desperate ten mile race,
won the two miles handicap and the four miles
handicap. Copland won the mile tricycle, J.
Atkinson appropriated the quarter-mile foot-race
from a large field in 56% seconds, and the day
finished up with a win for A. Edwards in the very
appropriate half-mile umbrella race. The only
noticeable feature in this race was the disrepu table
gingham carried by Copland.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
First of August was the equine natal day.
Victoria and N.S. W. Cricket Associations asked
by Marylebone C.C. (Eng.) for opinion on draft of
amended code of cricket laws— Lone Hand has
again changed hands for £150 ...“ Bricky ” Colley,
one of our best pigskin tradesmen, has shown the
Alligators how to ride in most approved style. He
pulled off the double, Port Curtis Handicap (£100)
and Rockhampton Handicap (£300) on Rioter—
The R.S.Y.S. will open the season about the lirst
Saturday in October At Glen Innes, W. Trim
and E. Grover won the principal prizes at the
Coursing meeting, and Southern and Trim ran a
dead heat for the principal handicap at the
athletic sports The Wagga Coursing Club nomi-
nations will be received, and draw take place,
on September 7th and 10th respectively. The
winner of the 34-dog Stake will receive
£60, runner-up £30, and four dogs £5
At Braidwood, Frear defeated Sharpe in 150>ards’
spin, £10 a side.... The total of the money to be
given at the Canterbury (N.Z.) Spring meeting in
November amounts to £3650, as against £3790 last
year. In the programme, £1300 is appropriated to
weight-for-age races, and £3400 to handicaps, being
a decrease of £300 in the former, and an increase
of £1050 to the latter—J. Largan and Q. Bubear
row over the Thames champion course on the 30th
instant, for £200 a side Tasman, Cheviot, and
Matanaka are first favourites for the N.Z. Cup, at
hundreds to ten Progress will stand the season
at 10 guineas Some of the Blackall people were
so joyful over the defeat of the Transcontinental
Railway Bill that they got up a day’s racing, the
following being the programme1st. Obstacle
Haco ; 2nd. Transcontinental Handicap ; 3rd. New
Guinea Handicap ; 4th. Premier’s Final Flutter
. ..“Mr. Bruce,” alias “ Young Dutchie,” who has
been displaying the noble art at Gympie, offered
to box any man on Gympie for from £35 to £300,
with or without the gloves, and give him two
stone, but the invitation fell flat. .C. M’Donald,
of Penrith, and James Gray, of Mount Wilson,
raced at Penrith 100 yards for £35 aside. The
former, who won easily, is to be matched against
Alcorn, of Jerry’s Plains, for £100 aside.. .. Barber
lias gone all to pieces... A Hotel Rice meeting is to
be held near the Encampment Ground, on the
Hawkesbury, on Saturday week. Great saddle
Happing, the largest prize £15 Sam Cracknel! is
to ride Normanby for the Hawkesbury Handicap.
A lucky man, and a horse that will go for the
money—Captain Rossi is the most regular at-
tendant at Randwiok. We may, therefore, look
out for Lord Lisgar The Gem is doing fast work
at Maitland The close season began on the
1st, and pot-hunters’ shooting irons are idle—
“The Derby is simply a match between Warwick
and Martini-Henry.” Certainties of that sort are,
however, often upset by the interference of a third
party to the contract—Slave will run well at the
Tattersall’s meeting on Saturday ; so will Wal-
langra —The Queensland hurdle racer Blazeaway
is likely to visit Randwick Warwick has been
heavily backed by his owner for the Melbourne
Derby Aberfoyle is thought to be “the party ”
for the Hawkesbury Guineas—A lucky dreamer
saw Despot win the Metrop. and Stockwoll the Cup.
He can't fix the Hawkesbury yet—more porkpie...
Eva is reported t • be Roberts’ choice for the
Hawkesbury Handicap. The secret is out too
soon, and Masquerade ought not to be forgotten.
A nice double, Derby and Metrop.—the two
brothers Warwick and Sogenhoe— fronhand has
been heavily backed for the Melbourne Cup —
The South Australian flyer, Dirk Hatteriack is a
very firm favourite for the Melbourne Cup, but
surely not at 100 to 8, as stated by an evening paper.
At the Victoria Coursing Club meeting on
Saturday last, W. M'Culloch’s Gas and Mail Boy
divided the West Bourko Plate; Miss Whittiug-
bam’s Wild Toddy and Wyuna divided the Ladies’
Plato; Miss White’s Kate Darling won the Ladies'
Stake; and the Beaten Dog Stake fell to J. M’Cul-
loch's Minerva... On Saturday afternoon, Walsh
defeated Keenan in a handball match for £4, played
at the Rising Sun Court, Blizabeth-street—The
raoes for the Monk sculling trophy, in light skiff-,
came off on Saturday afternoon. Course, from
Double Bay round Shark Island aud back. A.
Ireland, carrying 401b., won the final hent and the
trophy; A. Chamberlain, 351b., second; and W.
Stanuard. 151b., third . .Shepherd defeated Allister,
at Adelaide, in a foot-race for a trophy and the
championship of South Australia.
• •
The annual lacrosse match between Ire-
land and England was played on Juno 3, at Belfast,
Ireland, and was won by Ireland. Twelve goafs to
live .. England cannot boast of a first-class oars-
man. How rowing has degenerated since Coombes,
Kelly, Sadler, and Rentorth’s time — Cleary ex-
presses himself as anxious to meet Mitchell with
soft gloves, and says no will make any concession
which will bring it about ...A Judy belonging to
Liverpool (Eng.) travelled from that city to New-
castle and back, 103 miles, on a tricycle, in Itp^hrs.
dome of the American sporting papers are of
opinion that as the police stopped the bulllvan-
Mitchell affair before it was decided, all bets on
the result should be drawn.. .On Juno 9, the fastest
flying by homing pigeons, in races over two hun-
dred miles, under federation rules, was shown in a
race from Princeton, N.J., to the loft of E. Steven-
son, of Fall River, Mass. The start was at Oh. 13m.
a.m. home time, and two birds arrived together at
3h. 30m. p.ra. Distance, 304f miles. Speed, 1167
yards per minute... .The single sculling race at the
Pullmann, 111., R gatta, on June 33, was won by
Hanlon. There were fourteen competitors. Hosmer
was second, Hamm third, Lee fourth, and a rising
light-weight, Teemer, who is only 18 years of age,
fifth. The double-sculls was won by Hanlan ana
Leo; Hosmer and M’Kay second. A consolation
race was won by young Teemer In 30min. 14soc.,
beating Ri ey,. M’Kay, Parker, Plaisted, Ellioti,
and Gaudaur Duncan 0. Ross, the American
athlete, bos accepted the challenge issued by John
L. Sullivan, pugilist, for a 100 or 160 yards’ running
race, each contestant to carry a man weighing
1501b. on bis shoulders—Oapt. Bogardus is stated
to have broken twenty-live clay pigeons In one
minute fifteen seconds at Cincinnati, O.. June 7
Mr. W. Long purchased a colt by Craig Miller—
Coimbra, tor 470 gs —C. L. Lockton, the Tas-
manian amateur, who has gained more prizes than
any amateur living, figured at the Mosely and
Blackheath amateur meeting in Juno. He ran a
dead heat with J. D. Moul for first place in the 130
yards hurdle race, and was second to B. Horwood
in the long jump, the winner clearing 31ft. 1014 in.,
and the Australian 31ft. ...The Goodwood
stakes, raced for at Goodwood (England) on July
31, resulted in a win for Corrlo Roy, Lizzie
second, The Dethroned (late Monarch) third ;
and the Goodwood Cup, run for on the 3nu
of August, was appropriated by Border Min-
strel 1, Corrie Boy 2, Dutch Oven 3 It
is cabled that one Terry has crossed the English
Channel on a floating tricycle....The third suc-
cessful English sire of the past season was Maca-
roni, fourteen of whoso progeny won 38 races of
the value of £18,110 ...... bays a Yankee paper;
“George Fearu, the long distance swimmer, has
married a member of the ’Salvation Army,' ami
has concluded to permanently reside in Australia.”
This is news both for the colonial swimmers aud
the “Army.". At the Cambridge University
Bicycle Club v. London B.C., sixth annual contest,
on June 9, London won every event—one mile,
four miles, and lift en miles— It is notimprobab'e
that Haulan and Kennedy will meet again, on the
Potomac, before the year is out—Andre Christol
uad his shoulder dislocated while wrestling with
Whistler at the St. Louis tournament—Captain
Montie, of the Hanoverian Field Artillery, weigh-
ing nearly 3001b., is credited with recently riding
an English throe-year-old four German miles,
almost equal to 18 English miles, in55min. 15sec., on
a wager that he could ride the distance in an hour..
The latest American pugilistic news is talk, talk,
talk, and not a show of fight —On May 36, in
Brooklyn, U.8, Bertie Bell and Tilly Tredweli, two
coloured women, fought up and down over John
Francis, a coachman. Keen rivalry existed between
them to obtain a monopoly of his affections. Of
late Miss Treadwell blushingly assumed the r61e of
Mr. Francis’ affianced, which excited intense
bitterness in her rival. Their meeting, although
accidental, was furious. The fighting was destitute
of scientific principles, but proved very effective.
In the latter part of the sixth round Miss Bertie
seized the second finger of her opponent’s right
hand bit off the member and threw it in her face.
Whereupon Miss Treadwell threw up the sponge.
The Derby winner, St. Blaise, suffered defeat
from Ladislas in the Ascot Derby, in which the
former had to give away 10 lb — Since Tristan first
ran in 1880 he has won £17,003 in stakes for Mr. Le-
fevre.. . . A match will possibly be arranged between
Lord Arlington’s Sr. Blaise, winner of the Derby,
and Lord Falmouth’s Gal lard, winner of the Two
Thousand Guineas.
Remember Hop Bitters never does harm
to the smallest child but good, always and con-
tinually. See and read.
Though invitations to the Queen’s State
Balls are hard to got, and highly prized, it is of
course distinction, not enjoyment, that is sought.
As for dancing, young ladies get very little of it
indeed. But the sight is always a grand one. A
plain black coat would be an object of curiosity;
but the varied rich uniforms, the glitter of mirrors,
glass and plate, the Royal scarlet liveries, aud the
magnificent toilettes, are always very brilliant. At
the last one, Buckingham Palace was illuminated
by the electric light for the first time, but the effect
of turning Into antechambers lit merely by gas,
which seemed dull almost to darkness by com-
parison, was very unpleasant. Tne Scotch reel is
frequently danced, but never by many. The
Princess of Wales wore white tulle, with fringes of
red currants; and most of the young belles wore
simple white. Bouquets of large size, to be
thoroughly chic, had to be all of one flower, and a
charming effect was produced by adresstrf beauti-
ful sage green tulle, set off by an immense bouquet
all of mignonette.
No names are given, but it is true all the same. It was at Manly on Sunday week.
A man tried to cross a plank over a swamp. He was a bit handicapped—he carried his wife. She
turned the scale at sixteen stone, and he didn’t at ten. There are few positions in which a lady
appears to less advantage, than when sitting on a man’s back—especially her husband’s, All her
weak points and a good many of her strong points invite attention, and, in justice to the crowd
at Manly, that attention was freely given to the lady in question. But difficulties commenced at
the very start, and, so when about half the distance had been “ negotiated,” it struck him
that walking a swamp was better than walking a plank, and so the (no name is too bad for him)
scamp tottered and fell in, having first considerately dumped his wife down so that he fell pretty
soft. So the crowd made some pointed allusions to their mishap and physical peculiarities.
There was a little profanity In the air, too. But they got out of the mud—or the quicksand—
and went home; and he now assures his friends that ho never spent a more pleasant evening.
Sunday next will probably see him on the same plank, but not—not with the same lady.


F
URNITURE SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring street*, Sydney.
IT
Newl
ALL FURNITURE. HATSTANDS, and
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT. Bradley,
ewton, and Lamb.
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb, Furniture Importers, Spring and
O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
Inspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c„
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
NOVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O ’ Con nell-street.
AFTERNOON TEA TABLES, elegant and inex-
pensive. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
0 'Connell-street.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
some STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
BILLIARD TABLES, full size, with appurten-
ances ; also smaller Convertible Tables, land
8 feet—may be used as dining tables. Now on view.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, Importers, Spring
and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at lowest prices. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Importers,
O’Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney,
Eight-pound bedroom suites.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, wnshstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY,
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
HrTF FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 20s]
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, fra m 35s; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands. from lOsfid; Tables, from 7s 6d; Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 26s; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
II 85s.
BRADLEY,:
NEWTON,
and LAMB,
SYDNEY.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 85s. BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
FURNITURE.— The Largest Stock in the
Colony. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O ’ Conn el I -street.
TVR A WING-ROOM CABIN ETS—Earl y~K n g) islT,
I f Anglo-Japanese, and Chippendale designs.
Just opened. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
streets.
Dining-room furniture. — Magnificent
Suites in Walnut, Oak, and Mahogany. Side-
boards, Dinner Waggons, &c., to match. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O’Connell streets.
Framework for drawing and dining
ROOM FURNITURE, Handsome and Massive,
in Oak, Walnut and Mahogany. The VERY BEST
REAL MOROCCO SKINS, and Materials for up-
holstery. Open to inspection, BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB.
BEDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass;
new shipments. Bi-adley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell-street.
W
G
A8HSTANDS, with marble, 25s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
ARDEN SEATS and Verandah Chairs. —Brad-
ley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.-A very complete
Assortment just opened; many quite new,
designs.
Occasional chairs in very great
Variety, Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c., Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c., Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
TCE
JL a
TON,
CE CHESTS, all sizes, very superior make. Ex-
amine before purchasing. BRADLEY, NEW-
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
■RON SAFES, various sizes. BRADLEY, NEW-
_ TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
S'
TEINWAY NEW YORK PIANOS, the FINEST
in the world. A SHIPMENT just landed.
<T> Q GUINEA PIANO, WARRANTED sound
and durable, in solid walnut case; specially
adapted for beginners or schools.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
O/'kGUINEA PIANO, brilliant toned, full com-
OU pass, all the latest improvements, in hand-
some walnut case ; WARRANTED SOUND and
DURABLE ; BEST VALUE in the trade.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CELEBRATED PIANOS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB
have received
another LARGE SHIPMENT
of
R. LIPP and SONS’ celebrated PIANOFORTES
direct from the Makers, comprising TALL
GRANDS, LITTLE UPRIGHT GRANDS, SA-
LOON GRANDS, VERY HANDSOME and of the
HIGHEST CLASS FINISH,
in
WALNUT and BLACK GOLD.
WE HAVE NOW THE LARGEST STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA OF
LIPP’S PIANOS
TO SELECT FROM.
WE INVITE INSPECTION.
FOR PRIVATE SALE AT EXTREMELY LOW
PRICES.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Pianoforte Importers,
O'Connell and Spring street*.
SOCIAL.
Tb« Sports brought together a
grand meeting, but It was sad weather. When
rain onme en, the stand was so full that many
could not get shelter, and they crowded on the
asphalt pavement to receive the drippings from
ene another’s umbrellas. It Isn’t satisfactory, even
when your neighbour is a pretty girl, to have the
back of your neck converted into a spoutplpe for
her satin parachute, with a hand-painted rose on
it. A few lace parasols looked pitiable under the
punishment they received. With a gloomy sky
overhead, most people thought it prudent to get
seats directly they came in, so there was little
parading, and later on, when the lawn was glisten-
ing with wet, it looked very desolate. It was in
all ways a pity: there wore so many elegant
toilets, of which a fleeting glimpse was caught as
they entered and left the ground, that everyone
must have felt sympathy for the pretty owners,
packed in their seats like flowers in a bouquet—all
one undistlnguishable mass. The increasing spread
of crlnolettes was very evident; one or two were so
ample in dimensions as to suggest the idea that
the wearers, not conterit with ordinary means
of expansion, might have secreted perhaps a
bicycle amidst their drapery. When, over these
extraordinary pieces of mechanism, a super-
incumbent ulster was worn, which, Instead of the
usual nlry appearance, gave a look of solidity, the
bulge was enormous. People looked significantly
at one nnother and tittered. On Saturday, how-
ever, the interest in figures was not entirely shed
upon ladies. Never before has there been dis-
played such a distinct type of masher. Odd speci-
mens have on occasions dazzled the social world
with their beauty, but It has been of an imperfect
kind. These pioneers of the army of inanes have
seemed fearful lest a too sudden burst of Bolgravian
fashion might be more than we could stand, and
they have come upon us gently, as it wore. But,
having felt their way, and gathering courage from
numbers, they have at last appeared in the full
blaze of their glory. And how beautiful they are!
Not quite original, you know; merely a copy of
their London congeners, but, oh, what a precious
copy I The way is paved now; there will soon be
plenty of them —the large sproadbrlmmed hat,
cofferdam collar, spadetailed coat, and scanty pants
will be the only possible wear in the Ixmil mundt.
There seemed a good deal of forgetfulness of the
rule (there used to be a rule, and presumably still is)
against smoking on the lawn. Some people oven
puffed cheerfully away on the path right under
the stand. It Is not likely to prove an additional
attraction to ladles. The City Band was stationed
ip a top corner ef the stand, and played nine
pieces. As to the races, they were capital, with
one exception, namely, the One-mile Champion
Baoe, which fell througn because six riders did not
come to the post, as required by the conditions.
The Half-mile Race, without touching handles,
and carrying an open umbrella, was a novelty
quite appropriate to the weather ; and the Slow
Race, last man to win. was an event compared
with which a funeral procession would have
seemed a mad galop. The excitement of the day
was the 10-MIle Champion Race, In which Godwin
and Moyse performed the Jack and Jill trick, both
losing all chance, and C. W. Bennett and E. C.
Wood kept together the whole way, Wood leading
by a length. Lop after lap Bennett seemed to try
for the load, and each time Wood fended him off
till the last round, when, amid a perfect roar of
cheering, Bennett just managed to get in front.
He was assisted in a decidedly drooping condition
from his machine, but he fairly won a splendid
race. Wood's performances, after this severe
contest, in winning both the two-mile and four-
mile open races, were remarkable. The Governor
was—not there.
* ♦ ♦
On Wednesday evening, 1st August, the
chatterboxes had a chance to tell one another the
latest nows from the nursery, about half a hun-
dred being invited to a dance by Mrs. M. Levey,
Wynyard Square, to celebrate the confirmation of
Master Montague L. About 100 “children of a
larger youth ” were also present. The little ones
were all in fancy costume, mostly handsome. Miss
Maude Levey, in cardinal velvet and jewelled pink
satin, sat enthroned as Good Queen Bess, sup-
ported by the hero of the evening as Earl of
Essex. Miss B. Levey appeared as a Homan Lady ;
but, later on. showed to great advantage In white
cashmere trimmed with black velvet, light wig,
velvet satchel, as Marguerite. Titanla, fairy
queen, found a dot of a representative In a three-
year old daughter of Mrs. Victor Cohen; the
fairy’s small brother in black and cardinal acting
as page to Queen Elizabeth, Little Bopeep and a
Bachelor or Arts (daughter and son of Mrs. E. T.
Beilby), a Mascotte, Flower Girl, and Will-o’-the-
Wisp (daughters of an ex-Mayoress), and a Mary-
Mary-qulte-Contrary (from Potts Point) all looked
nice, especially Mary in pink and blue. Her
brother was a Jester. A Darkle, whose com-
plexion was laid on with no nlgger-dly
hand, looked darkly on. From Prudhoe,
Darling Point, came a Polish Lady In pink
satin and fur, and one might go further and
get a worse fair; while her sister, an excellent
danseuse, wore heliotrope, with a spray of flowers
across the breast, skirt of cream and heliotrope,
heavily laced. From Double Bay came an energetic
sklppist in cream brocM; and one of the hostess’s
daughters, owned by a bank teller, was admirably
suited with a black net skirt and let body. Gorman
Band, twenty dances (those or the children a
special feature), supper, and accessories capital.
Guests ran a few extras on to the programme, and
homed about half-past 3.
• t «
An enjoyable party was given on the 1st
August by Mrs. S. Patrick, at “Chesney Wold,”
Glebe Point. About 70 present, including many
musical people. Miss Klein was captivating in
pink and Spanish lace, cornflowers, and wheatears;
as was a Balmain brunette in crushed strawberry
and pink. A Redforn lady wore white satin, edel-
weiss lace, and chenille knobs ; two sisters from
Miller’s Point, peacock blue and cardinal respec-
tively. Miss Jessie Patrick was pretty in pale
green and white, and her younger sister all in
white. The youthful hostess in pale green satin
and pearls was charming, and with dancing and
music everybody had a good time till late into the
morning.
• • i
A party was given at the house of Captain
M'Clemens, Balmain, last week. About two score
guests, dancing in a pretty little ballroom, and
plenty of fun. A clever planiste in soft white
satin, and her two sisters, in cerise and white, and
in pale blue, contributed their charms; and a
beautiful little dancer was in pale blue and plush.
A Balmain doctor's wife in brown watered silk,
and a Darling Road brunette in cream and roses, a
well-known married lady of Balmain in wino-
tlnted satin and old gold, a daughter of the house
in pink llama, and a nice dancer from Mertonvllle,
in black satin and jet, were in the list of attrac-
tions. In addition, Mr. Percy Jones warbled. __
♦ ♦ •
The Sydney Lyceum Anniversary was a most
comprehensive affair; six hours for half-a-crown.
It was of a free and easy description, and by co-
operating the members carried out the affair
pleasantly at a minimum cost. Flowers were
very prominent. All the catering was done by the
Lyceum, and each table at tea was under the
leader of a “group.” Afterwards, Mr. Havlland
read the report; a session of calisthenics, &c., was
conducted by Mr. Westman ; then recitations fol-
lowed, and music by the choir, under Mr. Farrow.
“ The Raven ” was well spoken, and the “ Death
of Mannion ” was supremely exciting, and nearly
caused the death or a lot of other people. Mr
Bright’s short address was on Liberal topics, whicli
would some day, ho predicted, be noticed by the
Press as ranch as the contest of bruisers, or the
soul-stirring details of a walking match ; and he
paid a tribute to the memories of the two Johns of
Freethought, Tyerman and Bowie Wilson, whoso
names were cheered. Some exquisite dancing was
shown by a small maiden of 13, whose clever grace
gained her an encore, »nd whose raiment was so
very abbreviated as to allow the emblem of a
knightly order to be plainly visible all the time.
Chairs having been moved, a pretty musical march,
with banners, was performed, and then two hours
lively dancing brought midnight, when the party
broke up.
Holler-skating has been decidedly on the
decline this year. However much pleasure a few
enthusiasts may still find in maiming themselves at
Botany, the decrease in the number of its sup-
porters shows that it Is no longer fashionable. We
admit that roller-skating was always attended by
a certain amount of risk in the ease of one sox;
but it is unfortunate that th«spastime should die
out just now, when the style of dress adopted by
that sex has so curiously developed as to throw a
sort of fortification around their frail figures, of
which they had not the advantage two or three
years ago. One of the most serious dangers that
besets a man in roller-skating is the liability that,
at any moment, his heels sliding forward may
cause the floor to tilt up behind, and then a bad
accident to his spinal column is almost inevitable.
We have heard men of undeveloped skating talent,
who sat down in a hurried and unpremeditated
manner, insist that their backbone had been pro-
pelled through the roof of their head, while the
look of dissatisfaction which their features at the
same time assumed indicated that they really be-
lieved what they said. If, now, a man could avail
himself of the aid of bran improvers on his lower
limbs, affix a rouleau of horsehair to the back of
his head, and wear a large balloon-shaped environ-
ment elsewhere, in its proper place, there would
be no reason why the practice of skating should
involve any great danger to him. But though,
under the circumstances, he may feel the want of
some safeguard, It would ill become a man to avail
himself of that special protection which it is now
the fashion and the privilege of the gentler sex to
wear.
SociAb continued on next page.
A MUSICAL SKETCH.
X.
II.


MU^UUU
To be distributed on the
MELBOURNE CUP, 1883,
To be run on November 6th.
ALL PRIZES !! NO BLANKS !! I
“THE MELBOURNE TURF CLUB”
Desire to inform the Sporting- Public that they
have made arrangements for holding a Mammoth
Sweep on the forthcoming Melbourne Cup, which
for Novelty, Fidelity, and Advantage has no equal
in Australia.
Capital £20,000 in 20,000 Shares of £1 Bach.
4 Prizes of £500 £2000
8 „ 350 3000
10 „ 300 2000
30 „ 100 3000
First Horse £3000
Second „ 1000
Third „ .. 1000
Starters Divide ... 1000
Non-starters „ ... 1000
Total £15,000
The remaining £5000 will be employed by the
Club in making a book on the Cup and other races,
that is, laying and taking the odds by a new system,
the success or which has been practically proved.
It Is estimated that the profits accruing from this
source will range from £5000 to £15,000, the whole
of which, both capital and profits, will bo equally
divided amongst subscribers who were unsuccess-
ful in drawing either a horse or a prize in the
Mammoth Sweep. Each Subscriber will he sure of
obtaining a Pr zc, he it large or small. The Pro-
moters of the M. T. C. are well-known sporting
gentlemen, and guarantee the above to bo a bond-
fide affair in every particular. Ten p
mission deducted from all winnings
take place on October 28th.
take t
dlatcr
Ten per cent, com-
inings. Drawing to
Results posted irame-
aly after. Subscribers who wish to be present,
will please notify us in time. Add 3d. for reply and
result. Address—
THOMAS BENTLEY, Secty.
M. T. C., Melbourne.
t3T~ THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £100,000.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT
on fixed deposits for 13 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £60 in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
COMFORTABLE TEETH
iThe use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of tho
teeth. There are tbiee kinds, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with tho Yellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to peisons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
gums,decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
drops in a little water to rinse tho mouth dally,
they will not only never sutler again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to tho end. That
with tho Red is for children’s use.
May bo obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution. —To guard against fraudulent imitation?,
ee that each Label bears the name, “ Wilcox and
Co., 239 Oxford-street, London.”
DE
ASTHMA.COUGH, BRONCHITIS,
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate relief in
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis,
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them Invaluable, as they instantly check tho
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
see that each box hears the name of “ Wilcox and
Co., 239 Oxford-street. London.”
*
DINNER,
ONE
SHILLING.
y s
*
jr
4 V
1
PITT STREET,
NEXT TATTERS ALL’S.
All Meals One b hilling
J. C. GREENFIELD, Proprietor.
%
The high school, hobart, Tasmania.
Rector: The Rev. R. D. Poulett-Harris, M.A.,
Trinity College, Cambridge. Headmaster: Mr. Ed.
Edmondson, Christ Church, Oxford. The salubrity
of the Tasmanian climate, combined with the high
standard maintained by the Council of Education,
has brought the collegiate advantages of the colony
prominently under the notice of Australian
parents. The High School occupies the head place
in the degree lists. It surpasses all colonial educa-
tional establishments in the healthiness and beauty
of its situation, which is upon a slope bordering
the Queen’s Domain, and m the vicinity of the
8 ricket Ground and Saltwater Baths. The l.S.N.
o. issue return tickets to scholars at single fares.
Prospectus and terms may be obtained from Mr.
JAM35S B. CUNNINGHAM, 130 Ellzabeth-street,
Sydney, or from the Rector.
CRAMPTON & BRUCE'S
CELEBRATED
OVERSTRUNG IRON-FRAMED PIANOS,
Warranted for 7 years —Prices, £25, £30, £35, £12, & £55.
For the first time, a Piano embracing all the merits of a High-class Instrument, at a Low
Price, is brought within the reach of all.
AilBBICAST O^GS-^ILTS,
Style No. 2, at 12 guineas—a marvel of Cheapness.
WRITE FOR PIANO, ORGAN, AND MUSIC PRICE LISTS, TO
Crampton & Brtjce, 281 George-st., Sydney,
OPPOSITE HUNTER-STREET.
*n Irish informer in our midst— theffenvle-
n vrho has given certain information to one of
m belles (the daughter of a Judge), and
Induced her to consent to change her name.
r nst month, the annual Benedicts’ ball at
tiioMcall Q- was held during the Winter race-raeet-
hnt though well managed. It was only an In-
herent succlss, owing to small attendance
different an( i orname nts were all good, and
S made to the hall specially for the
anticipation of more patronage. Two
costumes were very elegant, and the palm
Affile was conceded to a lady in a dress of black
trimmed with white satin and frosted
Silver leaves. , „ ,
The Bachelors of Woodville held their
•pennd ball of the season in the School of Arts, on
week, when 50 guests spent a pleasant
* r nint, especially the gentlemen, as there was a
eV rn ufo£beauty Clarence Town, East and West
wait land* and Sydney were well represented ; but
Paterson’ was left in the cold. A young lady from
Park was nearly belle; but opinions differed,
= ariaronce Town lady, two local lassies, and a
2ieoe of Sir John. In pale blue, all had them voters,
ntrht colours prevailed, hut a lady in black was
winning. Mrs. Pomfrett and assistants pur-
veved and the ball broke up about four o’clock.
V } ’ * * *
The Burwood Musical Society gave its first
concert of the season on the 1st instant. Only the
aimolest music was attacked by members, but
litas Lottie Hyam and Mr. Percy Jones gave a taste
talent Indeed, Miss Hyam’s first solo was
-.rhpr bevond a Burwooden audience, but later on
She played the March from “ Taunhauser ” to their
fuHsfactlon. In Mozart’s quintette, Mr. Cooper
Saved the clarionet well; and Miss Chizlett’s slng-
fnv of Braga’s serenade gained her a good encore.
The part singing was as fair as could be expected
from the material; but ten soprani and one alto
an uneven division. Mr. Wilkinson, the con-
ductor, worked hard, and he has heaps of work in
front of him. # # 9
There is a popular theory that ladies are
ironerally in excess at balls. It may have been so
nnoe but all through this season the revoree has
constantly happened. At the Victoria House
™miai ball at Nithsdale, on Friday, black coats
wore in a gloomy majority, and a bashful man had
nn chance. The inestimable sex, therefore, rose to
an extreme value. Tickets were limited this year,
and the result was just comfortable room to dance,
and no crushing. Mr. P. W. Pearce conducted the
arrangements, and worked heartily to ensure
everyone’s comfort. Cripps catered, and De Groen
nlaved. Evening dress only was worn, the only
exception being Farmer and Co.’s comraander-in-
ehiet who wore his uniform and medals, and
walked up and down with that majestic air which
U the admiration of Pitt-street, and such a credit
to the establishment. He didn’t dance. A pretty
dress was a sleeveless ruby satin, trimmed with
holly in a dainty way ; and a pretty maiden was in
blue and white satin. Two ruby satin tops, the
skirts being covered with black spotted grena-
dine, distinguished two prepossessing Wopllahra
damsels. There were other nice dresses, just as
good as these, and perhaps better. Only we think
voung ladies ought not to bo encouraged in their
efforts to outdo one another ; it makes them
frivolous. So, after mentioning that the music
and dancing were both enjoyed, we will merely
say we thought the belle was either a tall dark
cream brochd and red heather angel, or an equally
dark tall ruby and crushed strawberry divinity. Or
perhaps, as cream and strawberries go so sweetly
together, it would be a pity to separate them.
• • •
A ball was given on Thursday night last at
the Temperance Hall, Penrith, in honour of Mr,
John Jude attaining his twenty-first birthday.
About 40 couples graced the floor, some coming
from Yass, Lithgow, and Sydney. Among the
guests were Mr. T. H. Smith, M.P., wife and
daughter, two Misses King, two Misses Grey from
Lithgow, two Misses Payne from Sydney, &c.
Honour.of belle was unanimously given to a young
lady in cream and ruby, as best looking and best
dancer in the room. Local youth were stalwart,
but shy; and, being deficient in dancing capacity,
they kept the walls from falling, and delighted the
City Catering Co.’s waiters by their carrying
capabilities.
The annual ball of the Corowa P. and A.
Society was held on the 31st ultimo, in the as-
sembly-room of the Royal Hotel, Corowa. About
60 couples, comprising the youth, beauty, and ton
of the district, footed it till early morn; and the
fair sex not predominating, and the gentlemen
being mostly facile dancers, all thoroughly en-
joyed it. Ladies displayed taste in dresses, and
some few were really elegant, cardinal colour
seeming most in favour. A black satin skirt,
deeply kilted, cardinal satin jacket body, and short
bunched panier, with pearl-edged Elizabethan
collar, was very stylish ; and so was a long black
lace polonaise over white skirt, and chain of roses
at sioe. A combination of black velvet and blue,
cut in deep Vandykes, was touching; and two
petite ladies in white silk danced charmingly.
Shells in her hair was poetical, and sentimental
was a toilet of cream brocaded silk, skirt caught
up with bunches of heartsease, hair tumbled up-
wards. A married lady, fair, in a stylish costume of
white brocaded silk, long train, high at neck, and
very much puffed behind, long gloves, and hair
bunched on top of the head, was voted to be belle.
An excellent costume, also, was that of a crushed
strawberry silk skirt and jacket body, with long
and very bouffant panier of crimson ribbed plush.
A trio of good musicians played, and supper by the
landlord of the Royal was done in a creditable
stylo. Beside each guest was a flag of coloured
silk, hearing a welcome. Next morn was show
day, so there was not much time for rest, but
ladies put in an appearance during the afternoon,
and in the evening an amateur concert in the
School of Arts was hold, when a number of the
ladies who were at the ball attended in full evening
costume, and at the close again adjourned to the
Royal and danced till nearly daylight.
• •
A wedding of considerable interest took
place on Saturday afternoon last at Ashfleld, when
Mr. M’Phlllamy, of Bathurst, became the possessor
of the beautiful “ White Rose ” —Miss Alice Hallo-
ran, daughter of Henry Ualloran, Esq., C.M.G.
Notwithstanding the gloomy weather, a very large
number of friends witnessed the ceremony at St.
John’s, and some lovely toilets were seen. The
bride wore a dress of white Genoa velvet and satin,
trimmed with Brussels lace, and a handsome veil
of Brussels lace; and the bridesmaids’ dresses were
bodice and train of brown velvet, with petticoat of
rich cream brocade. Mrs. H. Halloran, mother of
the bride, wore a handsome trained robe of black
satin duchesse, trimmed with lace to match. Mrs.
Blackwell, the bride’s sister, appeared in a bodice
and train of myrtle green velvet over a petti-
coat of rich brocade of the same beautiful hue.
Two little-girl bridesmaids looked dainty dears in
cream Genoa plush, with sashes of ottoman silk to
match. Mrs. C. R. M’Phillamy’s costume was of
bronze velvet, with pale pink shot brocade and
pompon fringe to match, looking sumptuously
rich. The travelling dress of the bride was a com-
fortable and neat seal brown, bodice and tunic of
Ivons velvet, and petticoat of ottoman silk. Mrs.
Wilkinson appeared to advantage in black gros
royal and Spanish lace; and Mrs. Fox wore a brown
ottoman brocaded silk, trimmed with pompon
fringe. It is impossible to give many other beauti-
ful toilets that were observed; but the marriage
was one that, from the well-known beauty of the
bride, the position of the bridegroom, and the
half-century’s service to the State and numerous
poetic efforts of the pride's venerable and re-
spected father, created more interest in the suburb
than has been felt in any similar event for a long
time.
« w * *
Mrs. M. Joseph, of Parramatta-street, en-
tertained a party a lews days ago, when dancing
and singing were grappled with by a spirited lot of
guests, and the music was especially good. A
Moore Park young lady wore pale blue satin and
black velvet; a Forest Lodge visitor,bottle green;
blue silk and old gold were from Dawes Point; and
the belle was garbed in black satin and lace—Odd
ways for making a living are often adopted; some
reputable and some—not. A ma » made a fortune
by sitting on London Bridge, with his tougue in a
bottle before him. Perhaps the meanest method,
however, Is that of following twilight lovers into
shady nooks in public gardens, and threatening the
most compromising disclosures it their demands
are not satisfied. One of these gentry Is doing well
In Auckland just now. But he ran against a
resolute refusal, and a more resolute fist, the other
night. Then the lover’s father neard of his son's
adventure, and started out to discover the young
lady’s name. “I should like to know her, by Jove,
you know. Perhaps I might get her to meet me in
the domain some night, remarked the old man,
He was a churchwarden Sometime ago, a big-
wig up South, on the occasion of his marriage,
was the recipient of a large number of wedding
E resents. Lately be removed, and sold his effects
y auction before he went. Catalogues were
printed, and what was the delight of the towns-
people to find all th® presents they had given
again offered them to buy. The auctioneer sold
his own present, and several people actually pur-
chased a second time the very articles they had
bought a few months back to give away....The
third Winter Assembly passed off successfully at
Narandera, on theSlth July. Dancing commenced
8.30 p.m., and ended 2 a.m., to local music. Two
sisters looked well, in pale green silk and pansies,
and In pale blue silk and gold trimmings. A Mel-
bourne lady in Madras muslin over white silk was
charming. The presence of two clerical guests
was unusual, but by no means unwelcome, and
they enjoyed themselves as well as any—King
Kalakaua is coming.. .Sydney footballers to be
entertained by the Brisbane athletes at a ball.
Floor has been strengthened — No fancy dress at
St. Vincent’s this year The City Band has
scarcely been favourably heard since its inaugural
performance. If there is no wind on Saturday, the
music will be heard to perfection on Randwick
lawn Tradesmen’s Ball, Newcastle, last Wednes-
day. ... One of the largest banquets known in
Wellington was given to Mr. J. A. Gardiner, of
Gobolion. on the 31st July .. It is proposed to form
a Club or Tauntonians resident in the colony: an
informal and social meeting was held last week,
The Bachelors’ Assembly at Nlthsdale, to-
morrow, is for members only. No visitors’ tickets
either have been or will bo issued — On Friday.
17th August, the first ball of the Petersham Owl
Club will be held in the local Town Hall, and the
secretary is strenuously working to make it a
really good one. Both plain and fancy dress will
be permissible At Ashburton, N.Z., a rlnking
tournament lately took place, when a flat race (32
entries), a ladies’ race, a steeplechase, and dancing
on skates, were amongst the items lor prize com-
petition ...At Christchurch, the Volunteers got
up a successful ball; nearly 300 present, including
Mayor and Mayoress, all the officers of various
companies, and city officials—Grand Mayors
ball in Melbourne to-night, to 1500—Last week,
the Victorian Bicycle Club ball was rendered
unique by an exhibition of trick riding in the ball-
room by Thorley—At Miss Louise’ Pomeroy’s
marriage to Mr. Arthur Elliott, on the IBth ult., at
Sandhurst, the three bridesmaids were Misses
Nield, Lewis, and Appleton ; and the bride, wear-
ing steel grey silk, was given away by Dr. Nield,
the well-known dramatic critic, “Tahiti;.” A
young man well-known In Melbourne softgoods
circles, parted from his bride-elect at 3 o’clock on
the day appointed amicably, and, at 6 o’clock,
when guests, clergymen, and all were waiting
him, he sent a note stating that he didn’t intend to
marry On 31st July, the annual Oddfellow’s ball
was held in the Oorowa School of Arts. The hall
was decorated with artificial flowers, evergreens
and festoons of coloured paper. About 100 present,
and an enjoyable evening was spent dancing to
good music.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Bachelors’ Private Assembly (Nithsdale).... Aug. 10
Randwick Races Aug. 11
Banquet to Dr. Badham (Town Hall) Aug. 14
Comp. Ball to Mr. H. Giltinan (Oddfellows’
Hall) Aug. 15
Citizens’ Ball to the Mayor (Exhibition) — Aug. 16
Comp. Ball Mr. W. King (Oddfellows Hall). - Aug. 16
Petersham Owl Club Ball Aug. 17
Windsor Masonic Ball .....Aug. 20
Gymnastic Sociable. Aug. 33
Agricultural Society’s Show opens Aug. 31
St. Vincent’s Annual Ball (Exhibition)..... .Sept. 4
Sydney, August 7.
Dear Belle, —Until the Bicycle match at
the Association Ground on Saturday last, there
has been literally nothing going on here in the way
of afternoon amusement for ages. No baud in the
Gardens, no sports at the Association Ground;
nowhere to go to see and be seen but the Block,
and there, you know, half the effect of a pretty
costume is (like the Post-olflce architecture) Ust
for want of room to show it In.
Of course, though the morning of Saturday was
fine, the rain must come pouring down quite
spitefully soon after wo reached the Ground, and
for the remainder of the afternoon the lawn pre-
sented to our disappointed gaze an interesting
variety of umbrellas — not frivolous parasols,
decorated with flowers or knots of ribbon, but
serviceable, uncompromising “ Gamps.” Fortu-
nately for us, mamma had insisted on our being
Erovxded with wraps, or we should indeed have
een forlorn on our homeward way. Many of the
Eeople marched off before the racing was nearly
nished, which I considered mean, considering how
long those poor leggy bicyclists had been training
for the occasion, The ladies were so wedged to-
gether under the shelter of the Stand, that it was
not easy to get a look at their dresses. I saw a
beautiful costume of violet velvet, made with long
polonaise, toque to match. I liked very much one
of different shades of brown cloth, with large felt
hat trimmed with feathers of shades like those of
the dress. There were several ruby satins, with
which large white felt hats were worn. One of
these satins was trimmed with cream lace. Two
young ladies In black velvet with white swans-
down collars looked very nice. A very remarkable
costume consisted of dark green jacket worn
over skirt satin figured with large flowers of very
pale blueish green; hat with feather of same pale
green. There were combinations of velvet and
cashmere in brown ruby and maroon, too numer-
ous to parti ularise. A grey dress trimmed with
crushed strawberry satin, and worn by a very
young girl, looked pretty. An elderly lady (with a
complexion that dozens of girls, I know, would
envy) wore a perfectly splendid dolman of black
broch«i velvet. It was the handsomest I have seen.
After a turn round the Block in these days, one
sees the world through crushed strawberry-
coloured spectacles. One's brightest vision must
no longer be called rose-coloured, for the epidemic
is at its height. A little of the colour looks very
well: but worn with peacock blue and with every
colour of the rainbow, it is perfectly maddening.
The bright rubies, greens and blues, and the warm
browns are delightful after the dingy greens and
yellows and fearful reds of the (esthetic period;
but now we are sure to go to the other extreme—
from melancholy shades to an outburst of bril-
liance. A dark brown cloth costume, made plainly,
looked well on a young lady with a remarkably
good figure. A dress of light brown plush was
exceedingly rich, but why, oh I why, did its wearer
spoil it, with a bonnet of such an ugly blue ? An
entire costume of green satin, hat of the same
with feathers to match, I thought elegant, as also
one of biscuit-coloured satin and cloth. A
Srune satin was becoming, as prune generally is.
'ow that dark hair is to be the fashion, I wonder
what the girls who have been industriously
bleaching their locks are going to do ? I know
two or three whose tresses were, at one period,
decidedly of the hue known to vulgar little boys as
ginger, and to the owners as auburn, but which
have lately assumed the favourite tow-coloured
door-mat aspect. In the sad prospect threatening
them, the only remedy I cun suggest—the only
“art to soothe their melancholy,” to quote the
Vicar of Wakefield —Is to dye. This reflection is
the result of observations on the Block.
This seems carnival time in most of the country
towns. Coonamble is having no end of picnics
and balls. Mrs. Cortis, wife of Dr. Cortis, gave
a ball in the Mechanics' School of Arts there,
on the 36th July. It was highly successful.
The dresses most admired were those of
Mrs. Loughnan, of Tourable, and Mrs. Hellmann,
of Beaulah station. At the Masonic ball,
also hold at the School of Arts, on the 34th, there
were about forty-eight couples present. Music,
supper, and all the arrangements highly satisfac-
tory. Mrs. Connell, of Merrie Merrio, in pale blue
brochd silk, was considered the belle. Her sister.
Miss King, in white and blue satin and pearls, came
next in order of beauty. Mrs. M'Gregor, crimson
satin and black velvet. Her sister, in old fold and
broch6 satin, was charming. Miss M'Mahon and
slst.r (the ladies of Coonamble appear to have a
sister each), in white satin and lace, looked like
faifles. Miss Blackett, black satin with scarlet and
silver flowers, very nice. Mrs. Mark Hermann's
dress of heliotrope satin, trimmed with blonde
lace, was exceedingly handsome. Mrs. Kingsmill
wore maize satin skirt and ruby coloured bodice.
Mrs. Ellis, white trimmed with blue silk, looked
very well. Miss Gibson (from the Mole Station),
white silk and crimson satin. Mrs. Morris
Hermann, white satm, deserves an extra
remark tor her graceful dancing. Mrs. Webb
whitesatin and lace. Mrs.Cortis, whltesatln with-
out any mixture of colour. Mrs. Tourle (Walla-
Walla) wore blue silk skirt, prune velvet bodice,
trimmed with lace, cap to match. Miss Bailey, pale
blue brochti silk, with silver ornaments. Miss Nellie
Bailey (a debutante), white satin and mrletan, pearl
ornaments. The dancing was kept up till 6 o'clock
in the morning.
Mrs. Loughnan, of Tourable, gave a very success-
ful picnic the same week, so that life doesn’t appear
to vegetate up there.
What an innocent person that must have been
who advertised in the Herald lately for “a plain
young woman as governess.” Innocent? Why,
gracious! who could betray such utter ignorance
as to expect an answer ? I only hope he (of course
it’s he) may got her—the very flrst specimen that
applies. I have known a good many teraaio human
beings, from 15 up to ages when your arithmetic
gives out, but I never saw one that would consider
she answered the description of that poor, mis-
guided, credulous, single, unblessed, masculine ad-
vertiser.
On the 1st August, a number of the steady and
stolidly jolly bank holiday young men and their
friends gave a picnic down the harbour at Pearl
Bay. Ulsters and waterproofs, owing to the damp-
ness of the weather, obscured the glories of the
feminine raiment; and ns the wearers of the latter
were in the proportion of two-tnlrds to one-third
of the Jolly bank holiday youth, indigo was the
prevailing colour of spirits us well as notes among
the girls, I fear.
MAB.
Here, at last, is the true reason of the
secession of Sir Patrick Jennings from the Stuart
Ministry. Sir Patrick was simply Vice-President
of the Executive Council—he held oillce without
portfolio. Ho wished Mr. Stuart to give to him
the post of Colonial Secretary and retain the
Premiership—this, it is suggested, because the
Colonial Secretary is the Minister who corresponds
with the Home and Foreign Governments, and has
an opportunity of bringing himself prominently
under their notice. Sir Patrick wants more
“ honours.” He'd like to be a baronet or some-
thing. And, as Mr. Stuart declined to relinquish
the Colonial Secretaryship, the Bogan knight
walked oif.
The Mittagcng bigots were foiled in their
endeavours to chase away Mr. Knopp, the local
public school teacher, who has had the misfortune
of being brought up as a child of the Holy Father,
or the devil — for we are prepared to allow people
to enjoy their own views on this much-debated
subject. But how does the Honorable the Min-
ister of Public Instruction account for the fact
that Mr. Knopp i vas hunted from Cooma public
school to Mittagocg on the Pope and wooden-shoes
cry? Mr. Reid will have an opportunity of satis-
factorily explaining this little matter when Parlia-
ment meets. If he fail, he may possibly get one
for his Knopp.
Mr. R. B. Sheridan, who has finally left the
Queensland Civil service, stands for Maryborough
ait the general election .. . Christchurch IN./.)
women petition the Assembly to pass a Local
Option Ext ntlon Act that shall embody the power
to vote by all women of the colony of mature age.
....The Queensland licensed victuallers support
MTlwralth in the general election, on the ground
that it is alleged that the Griffith party are in
favour of a permissive clause in a new Licensing
Bill giving the people themselves the right to
determine how many licensed houses they shall
have in their midst, and that the same party are in
favour of a grocers’ license being granted, which
will enable storekeepers to retail spirits by bottle
only.
Desperate efforts made in the direction of
inducing Government to till up the places of the
two rebellious J.’sP., Dalton and Casey (recently
struck off the roll of magistrates for “ disloyalty
by appointing a pair of red-hot bigots of the oppo-
site colour, have failed. Mr. Stuart sensibly de-
clines to jump out of the frying-pan into the Are.
He leans to the policy of appointing neither yellow
or green, but, as far as possible, white men. By
the way, the men of Orange -(who, it may be re-
marked, are quite distinct from the Orangemen)
will give a dluner to Mr. Dalton prior to his de-
parture for Eurone, just to show that he, as a
citizen, hasn’t suffered in their estimation by his
recent “ degradation.”


It may Save your Life.
hop bitters
ABE
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buchu, Mandrake, and Dandelion.
“The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘ and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘ and in addition contain all the best
‘and most effective curative properties
4 of all other bitters, being the greatest
4 Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
4 and life and health restoring agent on
4 earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Aged
and Infirm.
44 To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
4 Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all those
4 whose sedentary employments cause
4 irregularities of the Blood, Stomach
4 Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
4 Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters arc invaluable, being
4 highly ourati vo, tonic, and stimulating,
4 without intoxicating.*
“No matter what your feelings or
4 symptoms are, or what the disease or
4 ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
4 wait until you arc sick, but if you only
4 feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun-
4 dreds have been saved by so doing, at
4 a trifling cost.”
Ask yuur Druggist or Physician.
“Do mot suffer yourself or let your
4 friends suffer, but use and urge them to
4 use Hop Bitters."
44 Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
‘drugged, drunken nostrum, but the
‘purest and best Medicine ever made,
‘and no person or family should be
‘without It.”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO.,
Melbourne, Australia, Rochester, N. Y.,U. S
A., Toronto, London, Antwerp, Paris.
GRAHAM,
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment,
543, late 531, George-street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,— I respectfully beg leave to bring
under your notice the superior style and fit of our
Trousers, which are out on the same unerring
principles as those which have made the name of
Hill, Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion in the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either in sitting, riding,
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor braces,
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain their
position in every attitude of the body.
They are designed to fit the corpulent as well as
the slight figure, and are engaged to give to all the
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial will suffice to establish their claim
on your patronage.
I am, Sir,
Your obedient Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM.
EVERY
MAN
SHOULD
READ
BE. MMSIOS’8 SEW WOBK.
A valuable book, describing how suffer-
ers from Nervous and Physical Debility,
Mental Decay and all disorders result-
ing from Excesses, Indiscretions or
Overwork, are permanently Cured
WITHOUT STOMACH .MEDICATION.
Weak, nervous A impotent Men restored to
VIGOE, HEALTH AND MANHOOD.
Consultation and Book free. Address—
MAESTON SEilSBY Co., 359 aeorg t St.
SYDNEY.
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIG1STION,
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT, WEAK-
NESS,
PRICE 2s. 6d.
Prepared by A. G. KBBBLEWHITE, Chemist, kc.
43 ERBKINE STREET.
Sold by W. H. SOUL, and all Chemists.
VANITY FAIR.
Advertisements from an English paper
“ To be sold, cheap, a splendid black horse, suitable
for a hunter, or would carry a lady with a switch
tall.” “ To be sold, cheap, a mail phaeton, the pro-
perty of a gentleman with a movable head, as good
as new." “ Ten shillings reward.—Lost by a gentle-
man, a white terrier dog, except the head, which is
black.” “To be sold, an Erard grand piano, the
property of a lady about to travel In a walnut-
wood case with carved legs.” —It’s wonderful. A
woman will yearn twenty years for her marriage
day, and then she will keep the whole party wait-
ing for half an hour when the moment comes. She
has been known oven to yearn forty years, and
still do it A lot of good people think they’ll
have nothing to do through all eternity but sing.
But you can never tell: they might singe Instead.
“I’ve a cold in my head, said young Fopkins.
“No one would think, to look at you, that you had
anything there,” replied Fitzjones—In opposition
to Lady Barberton’s loose divided skirt, some fast
young ladles have started a now device, tighter
than ever. It has a very narrow velvet skirt, and
no separation for the limbs, but is so extremely
closefltting that, In the distance. It makes a woman
look like a man. The upper part consists of a
f entleraan’s coat and vest—Mamma: “ How is It,
tel la, you never get a prize at school, when little
Sissy Jones gets so many ?” Bella, innocently, “Ah,
you know, Sissy Jones has such clever parents.”.
In America, the swollest fellows wear five half-
blown rosebuds in their button-holes, with full
evening toilette. Four finger-rings are als qn j
citmme il faut A ribbon craze is threatening,
ribbon looped in large bunches having lately ap-
peared. On one dress 400 yards of expensive
ribbon wore placed A new make of capo is so
tight-fitting that in order to get them as close to
the figure as possible, the arms of the wearer are
inserted through strong clastic hands which hold
them down. ..The notion of having your house
connected with the church, by telephone, is utterly
ftlisurd. How’s your wife to see bonnets by tele-
phone ?... A few days ago a girl was curling her
hair with a primitive apparatus, often used, we
are told, by maidens, when she suddenly jumped
about, four feet into the air, and with fearful
vehemence yelled, “Oh! Nellie, undo ray dress,
quick I Oh 1 ray gracious!” Greatly terrified, the
wondering Nellie did undo her suffering sister’s
dress, and furthermore her corset, when out
dropped a nearly red hot slate pencil. Then
they oiled the poor unfortunate sufferer, and
dusted flour on her, and calmness again reigned.
The last freak of the Duo de Morny was to appear
dressed as a female ballet-dancer, before a select
Rarty of friends in a private theatre. The Duke-
ng was in flesh-coloured silk tights, several short
petticoats of tarlatan, and a silk low-neoked bo-
dice. His blonde hair was curled, and no pas
seemed too difficult for him to execute—Madge
says: “I wonder If society will ever learn the
lancers by heart. I never yet saw a double set
danced without bewilderment on the part of half
the dancers.". Mrs. Mackay, wife of the American
Bonanza King, had a van-load of drosses made
specially for tnc Czar’s coronation, that is, fifteen
complete toilets for that one occasion — At a
recent Jewish wedding in Melbourne, the front of
a pale primrose-coloured dress was embellished
with 138 dozen of violets. A gross more on the
fan, &o., brought the total to 150 dozen — Not one
Australian In a dozen, who quaff that seductive
drink known as “ John Collins,” knows anything
of the man whoso name it bears. Here is his
monument, more lasting than brass:—
My name is John Collins, waiter at Llmmer’s,
Corner of George-stroet. Hanover Square;
My chief occupation is filling up brimmers
To solace young gentlemen laden with care.
Worth has been making sensational dresses
lately, so heavily covered with Jet bugles as to look
like one solid mass of pliant glass; but tho weight
is crushing. Arrayed in this glittering costume, a
woman may consider herself veritably a female
knight to black weight is little In-
ferior, Indeed, to that of a coat of mall—but the
glittering effect is so effective, that, although bust
and hips are weighted down oven unto pain, any
fashionable female is willing to retire at night
almost paralysed, if her conquests during the day
hare been satisfactory The newest parasols
have a deep edging of lao© dangling round. A
pair of passable eyes can mash beautifully through
the net-work A certain girl has two fellows
coming to see her, and as each of them always
stays till midnight, hoping the other will go, she
calls them her pair of stays — One of the handiest
inventions Just out is the “ trouser stretcher,” to
cure bagging at the knees, &o. The waistbolt is
held In a clamp between two tlat holders, the
bottoms in another clamp, and then a screw rod
connects the two, and can keep the legs stretched
at any degree of tightness. It is extremely simple.
A French actress. Mdlle, Magnler, is wearing a
dress which Is the talk of Paris. The body and
train are of red velvet, lined with green, and the
skirt is of Nile green satin, covered with lopho-
phors embroidery which alone cost £120; train
strewed with gold and silver thistles Countess
Delva, of Paris, is as black ns coal, a native of
Hayti Tho electric light has been much used for
private balls. Tho batteries are carried round In a
vehicle which is stationed in front of the house,
and the wires are led into the building, and
attached to Incandescent lamps which have been
fl red by the contractor’s men during tho afternoon.
. ..Critic to artist: “You did better last year.”
Artist; “ But I didn’t paint atall last year!” Critic:
“ Exactly, that’s just it.”. . Someone hns invented
this dinner device. On seating, each gentleman
draws a card, which hears the name of some topic
which he is expected to make the subject of con-
versation with his neighbouring lady, such as
“psychology” or “socks,” “types of beauty”
or the “ price of butter.” Isn’t it pretty ?
A favourite device is the “ surprised eyebrow.” It
is quite easy with the paint-brush. Make the arch
very high in the centre—Tho latest agony is for
a young lady to have a dog to match her dress.
We’d like to see a crushed strawberry dog—in fact,
any kind of a crushed dog — The following is re-
commended as a reading lesson by the department:
—•‘I saw five brave maids, sitting on five broad
beds, braiding broad braids. I said to these five
brave maids sitting on five broad beds, braiding
broad braids, ‘ Braid broad brai ‘s, brave maids.’”
The doctors tell us that early morning walks
are good for the health. There are a lot ot young
men who walk home from town early every morn-
ing, but they don’t seem to be getting healthier...
Tulle is extremely popular for ball dresses at home,
and waterfalls are almost universal. There is a
mania for ribbon trimming; the front of some
gowns are covered with bunched ribbons and
beads, and there are ribbons on sleeves, head-
dress, gloves and fan Transparent parasols are
a pretty fad, though useless against rain or dust.
They are of lace, gauze, or embroidery, of every
colour to match gowns—The marriage of Bea-
trice Rothschild last June to M. Maurice Bphrussi
was a gigantic affair, even for Paris. Seven thou-
sand persons were present, the choir was 300 strong,
mostly picked voices from the best opera singers,
and the ceremony lasted three hours. Eight young
members of the Rothschild family after the
marriage, made a collection for the poor of
Paris. But wouldn’t It have been just as
good, and less trouble, if old Baron Alphonse
had himself shelled outon the happy occasion ?
A curious story is going round in Melbourne. It
is, that a solid, man in a fashionable suburb had
been so Intimate with a young lady that It appeared
strongly expedient she should become his lawful
wife. Ho, however, declined to go quite so far.
Eventually, the frail charmer accepted £300 to let
the matter rest. Shortly after, the lady was at his
house ; he “ wasna fou’,” but had taken just suffi-
cient to render him susceptible to the voice of the
charmer, a clergyman was sent for, and the
lady was duly married. On recovering from
his libations, tho bridegroom behaved in a
most emphatic way, and protests that he
will obtain a judicial separation — The Mar-
quis of Hartington smokes 20 cigars a day.
Porter : “ You must take your feet off the
cushions, sir.” Passenger : “ What for ? Here’s
two tickets, one tor myself and one for my feet. Is
there any by-law against ray boots riding as a pas-
senger?”... The population ot N. Y. city, which
contains 1,307,000 inhabitants, has doubled six times
within a century—doubling, on an average, once
every 17 years. In 100 years the population
of the U.S. has multiplied Itself by sixteen —
A fashion note says :—“ Shoes are beautifully
headed and broidered for dress wear, and great
beauty is sometimes seen in stockings.” So there
is; we’ve often noticed that Artificial flowers
are now perfumed A patent has been taken for
a box to show the dances of a ball programme
exactly in the way dates are shown on a revolving
calendar-box. The advantage Is, that as only the
one dance is shown at a time, no mistake can
arise... A female “masher” lately appeared in
Meloourne. Black pleated skirt over a crinolette,
very tight jacket, fastened only by one button in
front, over a white pique waistcoat, surmounted
by a real cofferdam collar of choking tightness ;
Billy-hat When a woman wants to stow any-
thing away so that her hub. can’t find it, she puts
it Into the pockrt of her dress If some
rascals could only live to see the pious lies
put on their tombstone, they’d pass the cake
to the man who wrote them, and then die
of disappointment Science searches into
the deepest mysteries of nature, but it can’t
tell us what becomes of all the pins —
The London Globe advises people about to
commit suicide to postpone it for (say) 24 hours —
That distinguished journalist Mr. Mortimer
Pranklyn gave a feed to the employees of the
World and Federal Australian the other day.
That his good will towards them took that direc-
tion is a proof of the practical character of the
representative of high-class Journalism in Mel-
bourne. The way those employes behaved them-
selves on the occasion spoke volumes for the
climate of Victoria. “ Dr. Danne is going to use
the incident in his next medical essay, as an illus-
tration of the swallowing power of the Australia's.
The Border Post says that, travelling ©n
the “banquet ticket" (what does it mean?), Mr.
Paine, an Albury municipal magnate, visited Bal-
main, and found, at the Council Clerk’s office there
a “grievance book.” Any ratepayer, smarting
under municipal supineness, has only to call and
formulate his complaint in the language—whether
gram matt-al or not —with which ne is most fami-
liar. Judged by the Balmain book, our English
tongue is capable of nervous terseness and expan-
sion in directions hitherto unprospected. Mr.
Paine is anxious to introduce the system into
Albury. The family of “Paine” is a large and
disagreeable one. The proudest royal houses are
but of yesterday in comparison with this, which
can trace its history back in an unbroken line to
the time when Adam was “ chucked out” of Eden
to earn—in the words of a coloured preacher—a
decent livin’ for hisself and his kids. There was
once a Paine whose pre-nom was Tom. He, too,
had a “ grievance book,” and called it The Age of
Reason.” It has been a grievance with the parsons
ever since. They called its author names, and
told as many truths about him as Harriet B. Stowe
did about Lord Byron. But Tom was a sturdy
churl, who, when ho got a smack on one cheek
was never known to turn the other. It wasn t his
wav He Just got up and started those who pelted
him with d liar?’ “ atheist,” “drunkard,” “ ignora-
mus,” on a dance they have not finished yet. The
more they tried to smother him with blessings, the
more people read his book and laughed. He—but
the story is an old one. Let us hope that Albury
will be supplied with a grievance book which will
introduce an a#o of reason into that important
town.
The Melbourne Akous has again plunged
into the subject of ladies’ dross, or rather of gar-
ments which it has determined to hold stoutly by
as the divinely ordained covering of the nobler
animal. It may be remembered that the same
loader writer expatiated most profoundly on the
mysteries of corsets at the time Lady Dixie had her
last little “ sensation.” He described the buckle of
that corset as only a well-buckled man could. In
another loader of 28th July, he reveals an “ insidi-
ous purpose lurking in the background ” of some-
thing about females. Where’s the background?
Does he mean the “ cage ?” He goes on to affirm
that breeches are the sacred and sanctified citadel
of the masculine position. Singularly enough, he
refers to them as “one single garment,” and
further delines them as an article of “ostensible
wear.” Possibly he is allowed to wear them in
public, just for the sake of appearance. But he
pathetically complains that even this “ostensible ”
distinction is threatened to be taken away. He
launches out at Lady Harborton and Mrs. King for
having begun this domestic row, and savagely,
knowing that they are thousands of miles away,
calls the former a Vergniaud, and the latter a
Robespierre. He puts his foot down against yield-
ing up what he calls “apparent” trousers, and
argues that “ apparent ” is the proper word, be-
cause at the present time “women in an incon-
spicuous way do .” At the Hawthorn Police
Court, two days after the appearance of this article,
a literary man with a bandaged head applied to
have his wife bound over to keep the peace for the
next ten yearn.
No matter what you feeling or ailment is,
Hop Bitters will do you good. Prove it and see.
VISITORS—CONFOUND THEM!
“SO HAPPY TO SEE YOU.”
BLISSFUL IGNORANCE.
A “SCRUMPTIOUS” FEED.


Pastoral Chambers, George-street, Sydney.
The accompanying sketch shows a recent import-
ant improvement in George-strcet within a few
doors of King-street. The design of the buildings
has proved an excellent one, affording room below
for exten ive first-class businesses; and above,
suites of offices equal to anything of the kind to be
found elsewhere in the city. To commence at the
ground floor—
MR. SIDNEY COHENS CRICKETING RE-
POSITORY.
The establishment nearest King-street is that of
Mr. Sidney Cohen, tho cricketing repository par
excellence of Sydney. Tho business of this house
has completely outgrown its former premises, and
now, at last an edifice more capacious and suited
for display has been secured. Just at tho present
time Mr. Cohen’s first shipments of cricketing
goods, selected mostly from experience, and at
the instance of tho best players, are coming
to hand, and they will shortly bo open
for inspection and sale. The goods comprise
the very best makes in cricket balls and the
world-tested bats, by Worsop, Cobbett, Dark,
&c., &c. As a speciality is made of these lines, the
figures are the lowest ruling all over the colonies.
Ayres' lawn tennis and croquet goods are also
largely imported. Mr. Cohen combines, also, the
trade of the better class of hardware, and in this
respect, is the only house which really makes a
speciality of workman’s tools. Here can be ob-
tained in this line, what cannot be procured els -
where in the city. The makes are the best and the
prices the lowest ruling in Sydney. To further
suit this class of trade, the establishment is kept
open till nine o’clock each week night, and up to
11 p.m. on Saturdays.
OSGOOD’S BOOT WAREHOUSE.
The premises adjoining are occupied by Mr. W. J.
Osgood, long known in this city m connection with
the trade in a superior description of boots. Mr.
Osgood's establishment is one of the best furnished
in Sydney, being spacious, well lighted, and artis-
tically ai ranged, with excellent accommodation
for ladies and cnildreu. The proprietor holds to
the line of business he first started with, namely,
that of a high-class description of goods, and the
connection of the house, as may bo imagined, is
large and profitable. Only the best kind of Eng-
lish and Continental sewn boots a. e to b» found at
this depot, and even in these lines only the recog-
nised makes of the world are selected. In boots,
as in everything else, It’s coming to be an acknow-
ledged axion that the best article is the cheapest.
And, as ail these boots are made of well-seasoned,
not half-tanned, leather, and are sewn by hand, not
only is durability secured, but elegance combined
with comfort; and dealing largely in this class of
boots for ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Osgood is able
to retail them at prices as low as any other house
k in the colonies. Ci icketlug boots, lawn tennis, and
croquet shoes, ball-room pud promenade shoes, &c.
are all included in the stock. Mr. Osgood asks for
an inspection of bis goods.
MESSRS. PITT, SON, AND BADGERY’S
BUSINESS.
The upper portion of Pas. L rial Chambers arc
occupied, for the most part, by Mefsrs. Pitt, Son,
and Badgery, tho well-known stojk and station
agents. For upwards of thirty-five years the name
of Pitt has been identified with the stock business
of N.S.W., and for fully sixty years the name
of Badgery has been associated with the practical
side of our pastoral industry. For several years the
business of the firm was carried on at the corner
of King and George streets ; but now that the
Pastoral Chambers have been built, additional
facility and convenience have been secured. The
firm’s business includes that of general stock and
station agents, wool merchants, and stock sales-
men. Mr. Pitt conducts the clerical business, and
Mr. B idgery the sales, at Homebush and elsewhere.
The Pastoral Chambers now form the rendezvous
in this city of the representative graziers of three
colonies. *
Nothing is more difficult to the embryo
vocalist than giving the words distinctly. Bowker
began to take lessons in vocalism not long ago, and
lately invited Jowker to hear a sample. He per-
formed “ riiy voice is near,” ami, turning from the
piano after finishing for Jowker’s criticism, heard
hi a murmur, " it’s a very pretty air; you haven 1
altogether a had voice, and throw a deal of expres-
sion into the music—but why don't yon sing in Eng-
lish f"
Dr. Ross, M.L.A., has just distinguished
himself once more by being the cause of a row in
the sacred portals of Justice, Molong, worthy of
anything ever seen at a glove contest. Attorney
Kenna was conducting a case, when the doctor
stepped up like a second Don Quixote to defend a
persecuted fair, and tlrs attorney very properly
objected. This gut the Molong representative
mad at once, and he immediately declared all
the hireling lawyer wanted was, not justice, but a
paltry guinea. To which Mr. Kenna meekly re-
plied, “You’re a liar; your conduct is more of a
lunatic's than otherwise; such is your conduct
both inside and outside the House, you have no
idea of respect or what is due to the Bench. You
will not put me down although you be a member
of the Legislative Assembly.” Dr. Ross (advancing
in a t hreatening attitude): “ You call me a liar and
a lunatic?” Mr. Kenna: “I do.” Dr. Ross: “I
dare you to say it again.” Mr. K.: “ You’re a 11 tr
and a lunatic.’’ Dr. R.: “ I’d like to hear you say
that once more.” The Bench (feebly): “Gentle-
men! gentlemen!” Dr. Ross: “You called me a
liar and a lunatic ?” (The Dr. here struck a fight-
ing attitude, whilst Mr. Kinna assumed the defen-
sive.) Mr. K.: “I did.” “Dr. R.: “Say it again,
and say it aisy, and then come outside and I’ll
throw you out.” Eventually, this sickening
slaughter was stopped, the Bench fined the fair
one a pound, and attorney Kenna paid it for her,
the Dr.’s gallantry not being tough enough for
that lot.
LOVE'S SACRIFICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thehe is no gleam upon the angry billow, I
Not any light upon the midnight sea,
As the young mother, rising from her pillow, |
Makes moan—“ Ah ! woe is me!
“Must he, then, die—my first-born, must he 1
perish—
So young, so innocent, and sweetnnd fair!
And I be left alone, with naught to cherish
In a world cold and bare?
“My courage droops. But yet I will not
falter, 1
For Love is stronger, and all undeliled;
To-night I offer up at Death’s dark altar
My one beloved child.
“ How soft he sleeps!—no more, alas ! to
waken,
To see with glad young eyes the glad
great dawn
Nor night come, when the large light shall
be taken
Away—the curtain’s drawn!
“ Forme, no more the music of young prattle,
The broken words that fall from baby
lips;
For him, no more the humming-top or
rattle,
The jujubes or the ships !
“ For him, a ghastly plunge in waves that
swallow,
The rest can be but rest.
For me, through all the barren years that
follow
A barren life, unblest.
“ Why is it so ? Why must I reap this sorrow ?
Why bare my head to meet this cruel
blow?
I know not; but I know, that ere the mor-
row
It must be so.
“Nay, let me pause once more before I kiss
him
The last, last time—a shuddering good
night!
Might it be that this curse 1 dread should
miss him —
Should pass him, and not blight?
“Might he live, and happily be numbered
With those whose names are scrolled in
places high,
While I, his mother, through the years have
slumbered
In my low grave hard by ?
“ Might he, in some far island humbly work-
ing,
’Mid heathen scoffers, win the Master’s
wage.
And baffle this same hate which seemeth
lurking
In hives where men engage ?
“Might he, in lowliest station humbly striv-
ing,
Toil against mountain-barriers of Fate
Till, through the darkness at the Light
arriving,
He wins fair Fortune’s gate.
“ Might he but even taste the joy of being,
Though all his life be shut in sterile ways ?
But Fate has blindfolded my eyes from
seeing
Into the Future’s maze.
“Could I but hope? Alas! alas! I dare not.
I can but fear, and shield from what I
fear.
Great Love, unselfish, bids me strike and
spare not
My sleeping, sinless dear.
“ So, sweet babe, mine only peerless jewel!
I strain you close upon my broken heart.
The Night is folded round us, blind and
cruel;
And, darling, we must part.
“ It may be somewhere in the dim Beyond, I
Will have you bless me for the awful hour
When from the iron-toothed rocks of Bondi
I cast my opening flower.”
Thus, with the dreamless infant closely
nestling
Upon her breast, she goes into the wrath
Of night, where furious ocean-winds are
wrestling
Gaunt shrubs along the path.
So, on and on, with slow footsteps gaining
A giantledge that frowns upon the surge,
She lifts the child, asleep and uncomplain-
ing,
And drops it from the verge!
Then turns away and sobs—“Now all is
over:
He sleeps far down beneath the wander-
ing sea,
And the green lonely drops of ocean cover
My boy—ah, woe is me!
■“ But safer there than if he lived arrayed in
Earth’s fairest robes of ermine or of silk;
For now—he never can writes lines like
Sladen
On dessicated milk!
THE PASTORAL CHAMBERS, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
JARGIE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Jargie,” cried old Sandy Woolysoul, one
sultry afternoon when the thermometer had grown
tired registering the heat of Holly Run ; “Jargie!”
Sandy had seen bad times in that Western coun-
try. He had begun with about £109, in the old
days, and, with the help of the moon, had got on
pretty well for a few years. His twenty head wore
marvellously prolific, his branding-irons operating
annually on about ten calves a head, taking them
male and female all round. Bat the drought came,
just as ho thought ho was on his feet. Sandy went
out, looked at the sky, and for the first month said
nothing. The next month he swore a bit, and, if
a breeze started in the night, ho got up and went
into the bush, and sniffed at the place from which
the breeze came, and then returned swearing. The
third month he tried a different “ hang.” Ho got
down the Family Bible, and spent hour after hour,
morning and night, rending it through from
Genesis. “Nae fear," he would say: “nae fear.
I’ll come roond it, I’ll come roond it.” And when
he read a passage referring to the giving of rain,
he would leave the Book open on the table, kneel
upon the chair, and exclaim, “Mind Holly Bun!
Mind Holly Run!” However, no rain came, and
the fourth month was near hand. “i\oo, Laird,”
cried Sandy, “I’m aboot to tackle Dewtaruminy.
Vo know, 1 jiird, I'd rather swear a hundred um-
davlts in the Lands Office, and stand my chance o’
seven years, than canter after that lad. Ye admit
yersel’ that Scrlpter is yer soft side, so here’s at ve
for a chapter or twa! Mind,” he continued, as he
came near the end of the third chapter, “ I’m no
naygur. I’m gieing ye splendid measure. Ye hao
just noo a minute and a half to open yer floodgates
and prove yersel’ a brick!” When the minute and
a half was up, Sandy went outside, and, after
sniffing north, south, east, and west, swore like St.
Athanasius. In the end, he mortgaged his run to
the Union Bank, and proceeded to pay the Quar-
terly interest, which has hu ng round his nock since.
Indeed, that one drought practically ruined him.
Year followed year, and still the burden of his in-
debtedness increased. The police were now too
vigilant for the little moonlight chances, and his
neighbours were not so unsuspecting as they used
to bo,
“Jargie,” ho cried, “Jargie!”
This was his son George, whom ho had lately
brought on the run to act as overseer, with tho
hope of keeping down expenses. George had
spent four years’ clerking in the head branch of
the Q.N. Bank, but, owing to some little discre-
pancy in tho accounts of his department, tho
directors thought their chances of a 13>6 per cent,
dividend would be enhanced if George would deal
with the Bank only as a customer. This he agreed
to do, and consequently, the directors announced
that there would bo a dividend the following year,
Buttheold man found George very llttloof a help.
There was a town about ton miles off called Hilton,
and in this town there was a public-house, and
this public-house was bossed by a widow of fabu-
lous wealth, and this widow had an only daughter
of just sixteen years. Such a combination of
"orces affected George most profoundly, and.
■Ithough ho dawdled about Holly Run during the
lay, as though his spiue had melted with the
ieat, he oiled his moustache, parted his hair, and
•ode like a bushranger for Hilton when the sun
vent dowu.
“Jargie, Jargie!”
George came Into the room, where the old man
mt with his sleeves rolled up, his shirt open at the
neck, and his tongue hanging out.
“Jargie," began the old man, “it’s too hot to
toll you all I think aboot you, but, as yer father,
I’ll tell ye a bit, my lad. To begin wi’.'yor an ass,
Jargie. Noo, when I tak wind, I'll tell ye how.”
Thereupon tho old man puffed like a bellows for
a few minutes, while the son twirled his moustache
and nodded assent to the arrangement.
| "Jargie,” continued the old man, “ yer after
•Fanny, the wlddy's darter. Noo, Jargie, drap her.
Nae doot, tho widdy'd gie her £5000 wi ye. I dinna
doot It, but yer nae the man, Jargie, to keep money
or mak a profit oot o’ it. Ye'd fling it a’ away on
half-oil. Forby, Fanny doesn’t like ye. Fanny
wants a man, and yer only an ass, Jargie. There s
a wide differ betwixt the two, Jargie.”
“ I know there is. sir. V’es, sir,” said George. “ Is
there anything else I can do for you, sir ?"
“ Ye can, Jargie, my lad. Ye can stap mooning
after Fanny and work hard on the run, and pay mo
back some o’ the money I spent on ye. Noo, say
the truth, would ye not, if ye grabbed Fanny and
the £5000, clear to New Zealand ?”
“ I would, father.”
“ Yer an ass for telling the truth, Jargie, for I’ll
tell he widdy and she'll nae gie a rap to Fanny.”
“Can’t help telling tho truth, sir, when you ask
me. Can’t help it.”
“Wool, Jargie, ye’ll niver see tho £5000 wl’ Fanny.
Ye'll hue to drap her straightaway, or tether yer-
self out at some ither body’s door. I canna bear
the thought o’ ye going after Fanny. Hoof it, noo,
Rnd g'o me nae malr reason to fret after ye.”
And then the old man lay back on the chair and
soliloquised, “O, my darling Fanny, my rich jewel,
1 must get ye, or I’ll bust. Yer £5000 will clear mo
o’the bank, and yeiself ’ll be the idol o’ yer own
Sandy. I’ll gie the rascal a job to keep him busy
tho night, and I’ll run over to gie ye another
s nack. They talk about rst love, but second love
licks it to smithers. It's Just like sliding dowu a
greased pole. It’s slick, slick a’ the way. I’ll be
wi’ ye the night Fanny, I’ll be wi’ ye tho night!”
And, while this soliloquy was going on, George
was whistling an air from “II Trovatore,” and
thdiking, “ lie’s shook for a certainty. Dashed
but he is. The old Laplander is alter Fanny. I’ll
be there to-night, also; but he won’t see 1116/’
There was a great galloping up and down that
ten-mile road every night for a month after. Tho
oi l man always got off half a mile from home and
turned the horse into a paddock, so as to avoid
making a noise. A couple of hours later, tho
young man would also come along and do the same
thing.
At last the widow and her daughter were missed
from Hilton. It transpired that two buggies had
started from the town in the middle of tho night,
and tho oldest resident was unable to explain how
it was that they took different roads. One was
hound for Roma, and tho other for Bogantungan.
“ I’m dashed,” said the oldest resident, “ If I can
see through that!” It also transpired that old
Woolysoul and young Woolysoul were missing
from the station; and the oldest station-.‘and, who
knew the feeling between father and son, said.
“ I'm dashed if I can see through that!” And then
it came to be believed that George had run away
with Fanny, and that the old couple had gone in
pursuit, but lost the road. And the other way
about came to be believed, also. And then the
nows came that Woolysoul had married tho widow
in Roma, and, a little while after, that Woolysoul
had married Fanny in Bogantungan: and, until the
two buggies came back again to Hilton (which
they did at the same time), the excitement was
intense.
“ Noo, Jargie,” said Sandy, stepping from the
buggy with Fanny on his arm, “ I told ye always
ye were an ass. Yer dad had the trump card a’ the
time. How’s the run getting on while I was away ?
Ye luck excited, Jargie !”
“ Dang it, sir,” said Georgie, with the widow on
his arm, “ were you away, too ?”
“ Goodness gracious!" cried the widow.
“ My goodness gracious!” cried Fanny.
“ Ho-o-o-o-oly Moses!” cried Sandy; “Jargie
Jargie!”
And then tho people of Hilton began the old
problem which requires to know the relationship
which Sandy bore to George, and which Sandy's
children would bear to George’s; and one after
another they went mad trying to solve it, and
Cobb had to lay on an extra line of coaches to
carry them to tho lunatic asylum. They are all
gone from out there now, except one old man who
doats about the waste-land where Holly Run once
was, and, when interrogated, never says anything
beyond " Jargie, Jargie!”


prospectu s
OF THE
CHARTERS TOWERS CONSOLS
Gold Mining Company
(QTJEBlTSLiilTr) .
CAPITAL, a£24,000, IN SIXTY SHARES OF £400 EACH.
This virtually is a PRIVATE COMPANY or SYNDICATE, formed for the purpose of purchasing POUR distinct GOLD MINES
ton-ether with Machinery, at Chaiters Towers, Queensland. Immediately the sixty shares are taken up, the subscn icrs will
reform into a Limited Liability Company of £60,000, in £X shares. 48,000 shares, fully paid up will be assigned to the
original Shareholders; £4000 cash retained for working expenses ; and the balance of 12,000 shares will lorm a reserve to be
offered to the public at 20s. per share, at such intervals as the directors may deem fit.
Provisional
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B.
Hon. W. A. BRODRIBB, M.L.C.
HUGH GEORGE, Esq.
GEO. C. LOUGHNAN, Esq., M.L.A.
Directors:
Sir PATRICK JENNINGS, K.C.M.G.
Hon. H. E. KING, M.L.A. (Speaker Queensland Parliament)
Captain W. H. ELDRED, (Consul-General, Chili)
JOHN HIGGINS, Esq.
Solicitor:
J. ARTHUR DOWLING, Hunter-street.
THIS COMPANY is formed for the purpose of working, under a perfect system of practical management, the well-known
Gold Mines, known as
THE GREAT BRITAIN,
THE YOUNG ST. PATRICK,
THE NORTH AUSTRALIAN,
THE WASHINGTON,
SITUATE AT
CHARTERS TOWERS, NORTH QUEENSLAND
Mr. ROBERT L. JACK, F.G.S., F.R.G.S., Government Geological Surveyor for Queensland, in his
report to the Minister for Minos, says:—
“ I visited the workings in the ‘ Great Britain ’ Mine, which were being opened up by owners whe
have recently taken possession. They were working at a depth of about 80 feet. The underlie or naae
is about 60 degrees. The country is slate, which to the depth reached in the mine weathers red, ana
breaks up in small angular pieces, so that to distinguish between bedding, cleavage, and joint planes is
almost impossible. The hanging-wall is distinct, but the foot-wall is never certain. The reef is at least
seven feet wide, and contains a good deal of quartz (showing a little mundic and some peroxide of irom
scattered through a ‘gangue ’ of slate or debris. Gnashings from the mine have yielded 3oz, idwt. to
the ton.”
The report of Mr. NORMAN TAYLOR, late Field Geologist of Victoria, is appended:—
“ • Great Britain.’—This lease of 6 acres lies to the northward of the town, on a tributary ot tno
Near the south-east corner, the Band oi
LUO OUIIIU IS LUO vj 1 cttl uiiuuu xvuivLy i iwu um uuvwj
pears as if the reef had opened since Its formation, and another reef been formed, there being two reeis
with a slicken-side (friction face) llucan vein showing vertical strike between them, and dipping E. ao.
at an angle of 33‘. The ‘ Rose, Shamrock, and Thistle ’ Reef, on the north side of the claim, passe*
through it. The hill is covered with quartz, from which prospects can be easily obtained anywhere.
The above reefs must junction below, and will probably be rich then. The whole hill, in fact, shouia,
in my opinion, be put through the battery, and would be found to yield good returns.”
The General Mining Manager, Mr. SAMUEL J. PEEK, in his last report upon the “ Great Britain ’’
Lease, writes as follows :—
“The reef is very large. At 150 feet on the underlie the lode widens out to 13 feet, and yields from
7 dwt. to 32dwt. per ton, and, I believe, increases in size and richness as sunk upon. To work the Great/
Britain ’ Reef to best advantage a battery should be erected on the ground, which eould be easily
tached to the new 13 h.p. Clayton and Shuttleworth’s engine, on the lease. The old underlie is being
cut down to make room for a double truck way and pump. A very good set of double winding gem
and pump in course of erection. This mine is thought very highly of on the Held, and promises to mru
out well.’
Mr. HUGH MOSMAN, one of the original discoverers of Charters Towers Goldfield, in reporting on
this property, writes as follows:—
“This is a small hill, composed of a mass of gold-bearing reefs in slate. This tn lue > to
should have a crushing plant erected as near as possible to the reefs, where it is assumed sufficient wi
can be obtained for same. The ground is easily worked, and crushings have yielded hitherto from •
to i oz. to the ton of stone.
Perhaps no nart of Australia possesses such claim to public attention for its metalliferous wealth as
wJhlrnT, .eon stand yet, as a matter of fact, its wonderful mineral resources have been hitherto
™ramirativefy 'unknown tottese resident in the Southern Colonies. Foreign capital being unobUua-
necessary slow development of the many goldfields was undertaken by the working minors,
able, tno nee > at command plodded on year after year, confining themselves solely to
who, with only limited means at, pumaou m > ' rnv ’i sio n for future operations, and
abandoning ricfi permanent reefs immediately the water leyeljwas reachedand steam^achmory^abso-
fu^y^necessity P °And U yet hfthe face G of thw careless system of working, witlijtho crudest of ap-
idtances results have already been obtained. Charters Towers, the most important
of nil Queensland goldfields, is situated 80 miles from Townsville, and was discovered by Messis. Hugh
P Clarke and S Fraser, in January, 1873. The prospectors, after duo consideration,
mM^c^’offThe^roSectin^clalms Austra&n,” ‘‘General Wyndham,” and “Washington.- 5
Since that period nearly
One Million Ounces of Gold
have been taken from Charters Towers, which bids fair to become the premier goldfield of Aus-
tral Tho eminent geologist, the Rev. J. E. TENISON-WOODS, F.G.S., F.L.A., in a recent report, writes
as follows •I nuraera t e aii the mineral wealth of Queensland would make a long list. I can only repeat
w v j + tVwfon mlnPQ olrnnriv Vnnwn nArmflnflnt. find of illllUGnSG VUlUGi
what I have 1 8l^ P m4 t \dously”that , tho80 , mlnesf already” known 'are permanentand of value,
true extent of which is not even guessed as yet; and of the probabilities ot
mines still to be
the
QUEENSLAND HAS A MORE REASONABLE PROSPECT THAN ANY PART OF AUSTRALIA.
A CLEAR UNVARNISHED DESCRIPTION OF EACH MINE IS HERE GIVEN,
Supported by
RELIABLE AND TRUSTWORTHY REPORTS
THE GREAT BRITAIN.
Lease, No. 338. Area, six acres.—This property takes the form of a small mountain, Itself a perfect
mass of gold-bearing reels. The ground is soft, and fairly impregnated with the precious metal. The
reefs in it are of great thickness, one in particular being opened out for 14 feet. A deep shaft (85 feet
vertical) has recently bottomed on a mundic reef, Indicating by late assay 54oz. to the ton. Io40 tons ot
top stone (surfacings, &c.) have been crushed for a yield of 1307oz. gold. This average will give magni-
ficent returns, as 1000 per month could be put through at an expense for raising and crushing of las. per
ton. The MACHINERY consists of a newly-imported 13 h.p. Clayton and Shuttleworth engine, lifting
and pumping gear.


nderlio shaft, 80 feet deep, has been sunk In a direction of cast 30' north, at an angle of 40 - , which,
owevor, is now full of water to within 35 feet of the surface. The shaft is 3 chains south-east of the
north-west angle of the lease. In the direction of west 10* S. 394 chains from the above shaft is another
reef underlying in the same direction. Poppet heads, forge, &c., are erected on the ground, ready lor
an engine to work the mine systematically.”
A much more recent report from the General Manager of the above properties is appended
“Lease No. 323 adjoins the Mosman Gold Mining Company (which is now turning out 5oz. mundio
stone from the 400 feet level), and is the same reef, part of which was taken up by the discoverers of tho
field, and has been working ever since. There was little or no stone struck in our shaft to a depth of
300 feet, when a good soft formation commenced to make, and Increased as sunk upon. At the bottom,
430 feet, the formation is thickly impregnated with quartz leaders, and there is every probability of a
gpod mundio reef being struck in a few feet. The present machinery consists of a il h.p. portable en-
gine, complete; one set friction winding gear; one No. 7 steam pump; also, engine-shed, blacksmiths’
shop, and requisite mining stores.”
THE WASHINGTON.
Lease No. 318. Area, 4 Acres.—This was one of the original prospecting claims granted to the dis-
coverers of Charters Towers, and preferred by them before all ether reefs, owing to the large amount
■ en f l uartz visible on the surface. Down to the water-level very rich crushlngs wore obtained,
yielding over 5 ounces to ton. The Influx of heavy water caused a cessation of work until steam pump-
ing gear could be procured. This has now been done, the water drained off, and golden stone is being
raised. Crushing should be commenced in August, and good dividends may be confidently expected.
The following is a comprehensive report received from the Mining Manager, Mr. S. J. PEEK:—
“The Washington is one of the first reefs discovered on the field, and was worked by Messrs. Mos-
man and party, the discoverers of Charters Towers Goldfield, in 1872. The first stone treated was taken
from the cap of the reef, and yielded 5 oz. of gold per ton; several large parcels of stone taken out
above the water level yielded from 1 to 8 oz. to the ton. Below the water level very little work has
been done, as the water was too heavy for a whip; and until quite recently no machinery was on the
ground. At present there are two winding and pumping engines working on the north end of the lode,
known as the Alexandra Gold Mining Compamy, and tho other on this lease, at the south end of the
lode. The ground between the two Is being worked by private parties. The Alexandra has turned out
a large quantity of gold. I cannot give the amount, but I know that about £8000 was paid in dividends
from a few crushiugs, before the present Company purchased the mine. This is by far tho better part
of the lode, as all the shoots of gold-bearing stone are dipping south, and must pass through your
ground. Two shoots of stone, yielding from 2 to 5 oz. per ton, were worked to the water level and loft,
one of which I struck 30 feet south offthe 108-foet downright shaft. The level is 30 feet into the shoot,
which is from 1 to 2 feet, and shows gold freely. The lode is very strong under foot; if it continues
down, the next sink will turn out a large quantity of stone. THE MACHINERY consists of one
8-h.p. engine and boiler, one set of friction winding-gear, and a Jack-head pump, all new, and in first-
class order.”
Mr. MOSMAN, in reporting on this property, writes as follows
“ From the surface to the water level very rich orushings, yielding over 5oz. to the ton, have been
obtained in the prospecting claim, and this was one of the original prospecting: claims granted to the
discoverers of the field, ana preferred by them to other reefs nearer tho main mass of reefs, owing to
the large amount of quartz and gold visible on the surface.”
THE YOUNG ST. PATRICK.
m 0 go?. Area, 8a. 2r. S^p.—This mine is situated a little to the north of the celebrated “ St.
_ block, which up to the present has paid about £170,000 in dividends. At one time it returned
ner fortnight to the fortunate proprietors. It is generally admitted that the “ St. Patrick ” block,
” “ Dan O’Connell,” and tne ‘Young St. Patrick ” form one and the same reef. The “Dan
/JSSnseU ” is expected to yield 3 oz. per ton. The “ Mystery ” is let on tribute and is paving weU, one
° .hine- of 1000 tons returning over 2000 oz. gold. The General Mining Manager reports that the 90 feet
5 «nriaht shaft on the “ Young St. Patrick*’ has passed through two reefs, one a brown lode, com-
of oxide of iron and quartz, the other a mundic reef. The latter has been struck quite recently.
pc Trpiil be aulokly opened out. The same reef nearer the surface gave 2oz. per ton. Another shaft
to the east is now down 150 feet, and cannot be far off the “ St. Patrick ” lode. THE
maTHINBRY consists of a splendid 10 h.p. portable engine and boiler (Clayton and Shuttleworth) and
double winding gear, erected between the two shafts, so that the same engine may wind from both.
Mr R L JACK, the Government Geologist, speaks of the “ St. Patrick ” as “ one of the richest reefs
of the field,” and furthermore says it is distinguished by an unusual width of gangue.
Mr. NORMAN TAYLOR, late Field Geologist for Victoria, in his Special Mining Report, writes as
follows.—
«rp h i S lease—No. 303, named ‘ Young St. Patrick ’—consists of 10 acres, and is situated near the
f 0 the north-east of the township. Three shafts have been sunk on the south side of the
Ground the new or whip shaft being 110 feet deep on to the Columbia Beef. The strike of this reef is
v 25" W , and its dip E. 35' N. at an angle of 25'; but this is variable, as the reef seems to undulate or
£v,i it is 2H feet thick. Below this reef again is the ‘ Mystery,’ and probably the ‘ Rise and Shine ’ or
-North Star. Between the old and new shafts the stone assayed from 14oz. up to 28oz. gold per ton.
The reef is rather variable in thickness, cutting out and making again, and the stone is highly
mineralised. At the south-east corner of the lease is a permanent waterhole, on Mosman’s Creek.
Workings on the north side of the lease (outside) give an average of 3oz. gold per ton. This property is
one of the best on the field, and I can strongly recommend it.”
HUGH MOSMAN, in his report, writes as follows:—
“ This lease is situated in the centra of a lot of reefs which have yielded from 7dwt. to 6oz. to the
urn of quartz. The * Columbia,’ ‘ Mystery,’ and ‘ 8t. Patrick ’ run through the ground, and as it is easy
to work compared to many others on the field in the matter of sinking and driving, on the different
reefs it should prove a profitable mine to the owners on future development. A portion of the lease
includes a splendid water site for a crushing plant, and, of course, it will pay better by having such a
lllant in connection wljh It. An adjoining claim is now raising 2oz. stone, and has for some time past
paid the shoreholders handsomely.”
NORTH AUSTRALIAN.
Lease No. 323. Area, 10 acres.—This reef is portion of the first prospecting claim ever taken up on
the goldfield. The main shaft is now down 430 feet. Crushlngs hitherto have given 3oz. to the ton, and
when mundic is out at about 460 feet, very rich crushings may be expected.
Mr. NORMAN TAYLOR reports as follows on this particular property:—
The reef known as the * North Australian’appears to be a cross course to the celebrated ‘Day
Pawn’ line of reef. The * North Australian’ was the first line of reef opened on the Towers. The
three adjoining claims to the south-east have been very rich, over £35,000 of gold having been taken
from Lease No. 289, and over £40,000 from Lease No. 161 (Mosman’s original prospecting claim). An
PL AH
anprrx,tm,<*rt finitinn ” t/t* proprof c * s o' fhf
CHARTERS TOWERS CONSOLS C M C?
CHARTERS TOW KR3
•< NORTH QUEENSLAND =*-
M L, /V / C / * • L
\A
p A
8 o u */ t a * v
T
Q/
]CJ
:>VT
Of
MILLCHESTER
L
in
n l
r
±
□
O *
D/ >*rrv
u
Ci ■* I Ms
r t r
”,
*o
Da
D a nfn
/
ft r <•
n
A
Rtt f
Q\-*
TO**
Ci* oS
tv
V" 'S
TITLE.
“ There Is the usual Government lease for each property—originally having twenty-one years to run
to a yearly rental of £1 per acre.
“In purchasing these properties the Syndicate derives peculiar advantages, inasmuch as it takes
possession at a time when all the serious dead word and heavy expenditure are at an end. It may be
estimated that over £18,000 has been spent in dead work development and machinery alone before at-
taining present results. Each lease is now supplied with pumping and raising gear (steam) of the most
modem and labour-saving description. Briefly, the matter stands thus:—
“ Washington—On good gold, sufficient in itself to pay satisfactory dividends. Eight men are now
engaged breaking down stone.
“Great Britain.—On a grand reef, 1 2 feet wide, which will pay regular dividends immediately
stampers are attached ta the engine now erected. This can be effected in a few weeks.
“ North Australian.—A very large amount has been expended on this property before arriving at
Present level. Nice mundlc leaders are now showing, and the manager expects to cut the very rich reef
which in adjoining blocks has made the fortunes of many. It is just possible the manager’s expecta-
tion may not be realised for a considerable time, and this doubt constitutes the usual speculation of
mmmg enterprise. The report of the manager is conscientiously given, and if the reef is cut it should
yield a fortune.
tons. It is nearly a certainty that tt
something like £1000 per week. As a matter of fact it is not struck, and theref orethe assumptioiTof
mg dividends from this particular source can only come within the province of speculative calcula-
From the foregoing may be readily gathered that the yields of “Young St. Patrick” and “North
d. U «l ra l lan . a ," ojt* that the present prospects of “ Washington” and “ Great Britain” mines
warrant a belief in steady dividends to the shareholders. The claims can be easily managed by one
mining manager with a working overseer to each mine. Thus by a system of economic management-
the use of telephonic and electric communication with the different leases—abundance of skilled labour.
eonnection by railway of the goldfields and port, and last but not least, the existence of a
tooct fortnightly line of steamships between London and Townsville (the port for Charters Towers),
reeiuts may be expected which in a short time should satisfy the most sanguine expectations. As
isuS n ? e8 ’* I ? a^T be A u ? te< i t T oCoi S£ anle8 formed to work the (now celebrated) Day Dawn line of reef.
d^nH i ?i?5^°e^ 0rt \o l i 8^ aUa ;u‘ 7 ith a oapital of £&,000, has already paid £138,399 in divi-
col879 ,V whflst the other, also having a contributing capital of £24,000 in £1 shares, struck a
shamfare now saSble^rilO^ 619 feet w^e ’ and showin » an of 3oz. to
Teems of Payment
For each full share, Will be £20 on application, £130 on allotment, and the balance (£260) by
romissory note at four mouths’ date, without interest. Application will also be enter-
tained for Quarter Shares (£100), £60 cash, and £50 promissory note at four mouths.
General Remarks.
LitUe as Charters Towers, Ravenswood, Thornborough, and other North Queensland Goldfields are
known outside their own immediate neighbourhood, they are destined in a short space of time to
become important factors in the earth’s production of gold.
Instancingthe present position of Charters Towers alone, the Senior Gold Warden of Queensland.
Mr. P. P. SELHBIM, in a recent report fththe Government, writes in the following strain
“ With a wider acquaintance and more mature experience of goldfields under my charge, I have
not seen anything that would make me alter Hi one single point the‘predictions MiSt Lexpressed' in mV
loaf irri f vno-Q rrl +a tVin fufimo a# _ j xtTI j j i • *
last report with regard to the future of rational manage
ment required to convert much ground hithertdmeglected here info: handsomely paying concerns—the
feasibility of which no competent person will deny for a moment—and the output of gold will be
double before long, with the natural sequence of twice the numberJfifi a well-to-do .population.”
During last year, ten claims (out of many) crushed 83,333 tons of quartz for a yield of 43 406oz gold,
and since the discovery of this field a few years back,«geld to'the value of. £3,673,398 has been accounted
for by the Government escort alone, exclusive of a very largdtomounj; taken away by private hands.
These brief statistics speak for themselves, and If such extra ordinary could be obtained with
limited local capital and indifferent appliances for saving gold, it does hot require the gift of nronhecv
to picture the future prospects of Charters Towers. F J
ROBERT L. JACK (Geological Surveyor for Queensland), Mr.
NORMAN TAYLOR (late Field Geologist for Victoria), and the Rev- J. E»TENISON-WOODS—are
unanimous m their opinion as to the permanency of this field ; while Mr. Norman Taylor, in his special
report upon the different claims of this company, concludestthus *
“ The reefs are true mineral lodes, and will be lasting ones. There oan be no doubt as to the great
value of the properties inspected by me.”
The operations of the company are not merely based upon speculative research after narrow rich
goW™^r1ng°qi^tz! terPn86 andtrue «>mmewial mining in the working of large permanent
APPLICATION FOR SHARES
will be received by the Secretary of the North Queensland Investment Company (83 Pitt-s
opposite Bank of New Zealand), under whose auspices this Company is brought out.
The following Brokers are empowered to receive applications Shares
for
Messrs. Soutar & Hoare, 143 Pitt-street;
Messrs. Clarke & Co., 77 Pitt-street, Sydney, and 88
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
OVER THIRTY SHARES HAVE ALREADY BEEN APPLIED FOR, AND THE LIST WILT
BE FINALLY CLOSED ON OR BEFORE
Wednesday, the 15th August.


Prepared according to the directions oi Prof.
E. N. Hereford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED FOR
DYSPEPSIA. HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA. WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY, &C.
No Danger can Attend its Use.
Great Relief by Its Use.
WINSLOW LEWIS, M.D.. of Boston, the distin-
guished and popular physician, said:
“Having in my own person experienced those
ills for which the Acid Phosphate is prescribed, I.
having found great relief and alleviation by its
use, most cheerfully attest my appreciation of its
excellence.”
Indigestion and Bladder and Kidney
Troubles.
Portland, Me., Oct. 2nd, 1880.
Hereford’s Acid Phosphate has become afavour-
ite remedy in my practice. When completely tired
out by prolonged wakefulness and overwork, it is
of the greatest value to me. I have given it In
certain forms of dyspepsia, in all cases of nervous
exhaustion from overwork, in certain affections of
the bladder and kidneys, and have always been
satisfied with the results. I prescribe it more and
more as I become better acquainted with its pro-
perties. Of ail the samples of medicine sent me
during the past dozen years, Hereford s AcidPhos-
phate is the only one I have ever found which has
become a necessity in my own household. Per-
haps I should hardly have been willing to write my
impressions of the Acid Phosphate if I had not
in my own person experienced its good effects.
C. O. M.U.
Derangement of Secretory and Nervous
Systems.
Rutland, Vt., Jan. 23, 1879.
While I am exceedingly averse to giving certifi-
cates. and almost always decline to do so, yet In
the case of “Hereford’s Acid Phosphate, I am
willing to say, that, having used it very consider-
ably, I can testify to its great value in functional
ST”"“ ° %*Sg e wg , ODHonag“M.g*~
ry Pamphlets, with full information as to the
wonderful curative properties of Horford s Acid
Phosphate, furnished free on application to
BARRON, MOXHAM & CO., SYDNEY.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
3>v£a.gric Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
“ It Works like a Charm-”
It is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained coHsand muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curiuc pain * as water quenches fire. It cures
i prains, Headache, Sciatica,
Bruises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Bunn, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick ii the Keck or Back.
As an internal remedy it tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, S ire Throat, aud Dyp-
theria.
A bottle of RENNB’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use in
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers in
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported into this country, and have
gained throughout the colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-soleoted and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. 1
leather, and the upholstery is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their tnish
| BECAUSE they ure each and all built under special
; instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage builders in America,
1 and specially constructed for the Australian
■ climate
And because all who use them say they ark the
best.
{ American Carriage Emporium,
\ WTNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY,
1 BARRON, MOXHAM & CO.,
Sole Agents.
BARMAIDS.
BARMAIDS.
This sketch, like the front seats in the Art
Galleries, is “ for ladies only.” We don’t want any
men to read this, because men wear thick boots,
and ride outside omnibuses, and smoke pipes.
No; we are not catering for the male clement, this
time, “a little bit.” Only for the ladies. And let
us tell you that wo discriminate, even amongst
the fair sex. Wo are not writing, now, for the
red shawl and “ lasting"-boot contingent; we are
not spooning out the cream of our talent either for
women who creep round to hotels bearing jugs
feebly d sguised in last night’s Evening News, or
for ladies with dresses of a decided colour and
“ busted” Josephines. Above all, lot no llend In
female form, whoso ours are stuffed with cotton-
wool, read this. We have adored the sex ever
since, at the ago of 8, wo kissed the under-nurse
surreptitiously when she had fallen asleep with
her head on the nursery table. At ten we loved a
housemaid whose eyes and hair were the same
colour—red, —and whose face you couldn't see lor
freckles. At twelve we proposed to a stout widow
who kept a greengrocer’s shop near our street.
She enslaved us, we remember, less by the reful-
gence of her personal charms, than by her profuse
hospitality. Often she would invite us, when the
shop was shut, to cosy suppers of butcher’s
“ pudding,” both black and white, Hanked by
strong ale, and succeeded by cheese that was
powerful enough to (like Samson) have borne
away the gates of Gaza. And we loved
her! Yet her hair was grizzled as with a green old
ago, and wo remember us that there was a bald
patch at the top of her “ parting,” which even
black cosmetiquo was powerless to conceal. Later
on, wo wore enslaved by a soldier’s wife. She came
for our washing, and, it was rumoured, used to
beat the soldier. Countless columbines wo have
adored, until wo saw one of those lightsome flut-
terors eat mutton-pies at rehearsal; and we have
poured out our souls, in song, for coryphees, until
we discovered how horribly they juggled with
their knives at supper. In our youth, it will be
seen, wo loved generally; and on arriving at
maturity, we cheerfully entered into the bonds of
matrimony with ladies of every age and colour.
Birth, wo ignored; nationality we were indifferent
to. So long as a lady could say “ I will,” and
hadn’t got any cotton-wool in her ear, out came
our blue frock coat and lilac pants, round was
ordered the fly, and wo stood beautiful but com-
posed at the altar. This was very pleasant, all t his,
very; but it was a bit expensive. Why, wo had 1’t
been married seven times before the bell-topper
which wo had inherited from an ancestor was rid-
dled like a colander, and every time we drove
away, some infernal younger brother of the bride
broke the little window at the back of the chailot
with an old bluchor. Oh I you arc asking what
became of the ladies. Well, really, this being an
entirely domestic matter, we h mlly But, there!
Fair readers, they soared up one by one. Yes, ono
after another they joined the angels In
those days wo kept a chemist’s shop!
• • •
“ Barmaids.” A difficult subject. Wo
must treat it lightly. Wo must give you some-
thing dainty: something as airy ns a soap bubble—
as delicate as the bloom upon beauty’s check. Some-
thing wh : ch will remind you, in its perfumed soft-
ness, of the rose-laden breeze of summer—of the
incense-freighted air of even. This is pretty, is it
not ? Too pretty to lay on often; though wo have
jars of it at home. They are all In rows, too,
labelled, like the Jam-pots in a grocer’s shop. But
their sizes vary. The biggest one is devoted to the
moon, for instance. Nine-tenths of the men who
fall in love drag poor Cynthia into their verses;
but there never was a bit of poetry sent to a bar-
maid yet that was not loaded up with moonbeams.
Here, now, is a little trifle wo can confidently re-
commend; and wo may say that when certain
alterations are completed in our poetic depart-
ment, wo shall bo in a position to turn out work ns
per sample at something under half-a-crown a
yard. Got your handkerchiefs out, ladles, and
weep for the sufferings of ill-starred Luna. Now I—
| Myi,'A
To ", Mary
( Susan
[as the case may be.]
’Tis night. High in the heavens shine
The moonbeams—like thcc—fo divine!
And, while they gleam on land and sea,
(Myra, 1
0 ■< Mary,* > love, I think of thee.
(Susan, )
Fair is the orb, fair is the land;
But not so fair as thy dear hand!
Soft is the breeze, bright are the skies;
[ blue |
But not so bright as thy •< brown ■ eyes!
(grey + )
1 see thee, as though by a charm,
Thy pink ear resting on thy arm;
While seraphs by thee sweetly sing,
And angels round are hovering!
So fair, so loved!—0 moonlit sea,
Just murmur—Will she e’er love mo!
» * ♦
This is treble X poetry; nnd, like treble X, it
“goes down’’remarkably well. The two bugbears
of landlords, by the way, are *• pros.” and poets;
but, while bonlfaces would genteelly poison a pro.
and send word of his decease to his relatives, they
would cheerfully compass the death of a bard with
a rusty iron railing and put a note in his pocket say-
ing that he had killed himself because he was too
mean to live. Barmaids, as a matter of fact, are
proof against everything but poetry. A tall man
with a shiny hat and a green tie with a gold horse-
shoe stuck in it, is dangerous, but ho is not infal-
lible. Fellows with long moustaches and a good
deal of shirt-cuff, who lean over the bar and
whisper soft nothings while about sixty peo-
ple are foaming for drinks, stand a show
at first, but seldom last. Jocose boarders
who see the Hebes at breakfast in what they call
their “ dlsherbill,” and can talk before other dis-
tracted drinkers about “ how Charlie Cupshiu was
’ad over them ten drinks,” is “in it” for a little
bit, but seldom long. There are so many men with
* As the cosa may be. t Ibid.
shiny hats and green ties; there are such a number
of mashers with drooping moustaches; and as for
jocose boarders—their name is legion. But once let
a rhymster chip in, and the other man is para-
lysed. Before the poet wrote verses to her she would
have refused him tick for “a glass of English.
She would say ho was ugly, and dirty, and shabby.
She would be sarcastic about his shirt-collar, and
hilarious over his hair. She would throw sneer-
at his stockings and butts at his boots. But no
sooner does he press into her hand a crumple!
sheet and hie him away than she roads and re-reads,
pores and re-pores. It is sad stuff—sadder, If pos-
sible, than that we have penned above: but to her
it is the song of the nightingale—the strain of the
siren. Then his broken boots, and his shrunken
pants, and so on, will fade from remem-
brance. He is a poet, and he loves her I After this,
when the bard comes in, she kills (metap orically)
the fatted veal. Ho finds ho can “fillup” w th
anything, and is never required to “part,” and
frequently discovers himself, to his surprise, at
the end of a very long cigar. But there is more
still to astound him. On reaching homo, mysteri-
ous half-crowns roll out of his ulster pockets,
and discreet porters leave at his door mystic
parcels containing shirts and clothing. To the
surprise and indignation of hisfriends, he blossoms
forth in a shiny black suit, a blue tie, and a very
hard hat. He has a metal watch, too. and a tin
locket containing a very highly-coloured portrait
(on zinc) of the woman his verso has made captive
After this, he is never sober; and the climax is
roiched when he discovers himself in front of the
altar, side by side with his beloved, and repeating
the responses in a very thick and woolly manner.
Then they go and live in a small house in Bed-
fern, where the lady has to do all the cooking. As
for the poetic hub., ho lies on the colonial sofa and
makes poetry about sunrise and sunset while his
wife is frying the sausages. Then, after a fort-
night, one morning she iroes out into the back
yard, and, sitting upon the wood-heap, tries to
satisfy herself which she hates most, cooking her
husband's sausages or listening to her husband's
poetry.
• * *
Wo cun toll you more about bar maids than
anybody. We ought to, anyhow; for wo reckon
wo have spent over .€.'.'000 in gelling materials
for this sketch. When wo look back upon
the astonishing amount of claret wo have
drunk that was not claret, of port that was
poison, of hock that was harrowing, we
wonder wo yet linger to recount the narrative.
The thoughts are upon us now, like a nightmare,
of the whiskey that made us writhe, of the sherry
tha made us squirm. We can sec ourselves in our
giddy days wearing out countless coats while wo
leaned over polished bars, maudlin with love and
lager, puffing away at a mild Havana which had
about it considerably less of Cuba than of cabbage.
Wo can see ourselves in those days giving away to
hotel Hobes cherished silk handkerchiefs—the pat-
I terns artistic combinations of crimson and “old
gold,” and, in a frenzy born of brandy, nervously
detaching trinkets from our watch-chain, and
handing them over with tremulous haste and a few
husky words to the fair boor-miller on the other
side. It is not without a shudder that we recall
the picture of a paio youth with boots that were
throe times too small, and a tongue that was four
times too large, feebly cheapening How. rs of the
grinning florists at noonday, and subsequently
bribing a bov with silver coin to deliver them at
the Golden Dragon, accompanied by the following
poetic burst: —
“ Perchance those dowers you will not cherish;
You’ll scorn these buds, it may befall;
With envy let these blossoms perish,
O fairest Flower of them all!”
The pale youth, alas, was—ourselves. At this
stage we consider our degradation to have
been complete. Wo purchased so many bouquets
for barmaids, that we soon became as well known
in the markets as the care-taker’s collie, but wo
very much doubt whether we were half as much
respected. Anyhow, wo were so lavish of flowers,
that the verso wc have quoted became a kind of
circular, but all went well until we attended a cer-
tain water-picnic given by the licensed victuallers.
There was a great gathering of the prettiest of the
bar-tenders, and once under way they began to
compare notes. We remember being w'.dged in
with Frangipani on one side, and Patchouli cn the
other. There was no escape; so nervously sucking
the top of our umbrella, wo listened to the follow-
ing dialogue:—Clytik; “I have been getting the
most lovely bouquets lately, and such divine
poetry. Ican’tthink” (a soft glance covertly shot
at ours Ives) “ who sands them." Lucy: “And so
have I, dear. Flowers and verses in profusion So
kind of” (flash in our direction) "somebody.”
Mahxan: “I’ve been in luck, too, dears. Such
delicious roses and such lovely lines. And (loving
look) anonymous, too.” General gabble: “Show
mo yours and I'll show you mine ” —“ Do, dear ” —
“ What fun!” &o. Itwasanawfulmomeut! Three
hands dived into three bags, and lifted out a sheet
of perhaps the pinkest paper ever made; then
there was a hissing chorus of—
“ Perchance these tlow'rs you will not cherish”
No more soft glances shot covertly now. Scorn,
only. And as wo sat there covered with confusion
and clothed with Ignominy as with a garment, our
condition was rendered “worse confounded” by
hearing Lucy say, “ I ton't he look as though he
would like to creep into his hut.” Wosought, then,
the only available consolation, and the rest of that
picnic was a Turnoresque blurr. Of those experi-
ences, ladies, you are now about to reap the
benefit; of this vast expenditure you are now
about to profit. A smile now. Thank you.
deserve it, anyhow. For, as Wallace bled for h “
country, so have wo “ bled ” for you.
♦ ♦ •
For a barmaid to be successful iu her
vocation, she must possess a distinct Individuality.
If she does not assort herself, she remains for over
in oblivion, and is the butt of roystering young
blades who, as they got outside “the longest
allowed by the Act," taunt her with being the
housemaid who has been rung in to wash the
glasses. Wo have seen barmaids at every hour
when wo could, with propriety, do so. Wo say
this advisedly, because we wish to Impress upon
the minds of our readers that although when the
Burgundian blood of youth was coursing through
our veins we may have occasionally vicu, there
has never been anything of the Ponsonby about
us. We think, though, wo wore kept from being
wicked chiefly because wo were conscious of not
having the excuse of being a commissioned ollicer
in either service. Wo would not answer for our-
selves with any certainty, though, it the 1- t opid
commander of the Wolverene made n- ,cna
Corporal of Marines. The world, you kuo v, for-
gives a warrior anything!
* * *
The barmaid at night is often a pretty
picture, with her elaborately curled “bangs,”
her dancing eyes, and her costume (almost invari-
ably garish,' and often tawdry) toned down
by the gaslight. See her in the morning. The long
hours—fifteen, perhaps—she has stood in tight
boots on the day before, tell on her painfully, She
flops down to breakfast in a pair of gigantic
carpet-slippei s, and her hair looks, with its wonder-
ful combination of twisled hairpins, as though the
fairies had been playing on her forehead during
the night a game of spillikins, and had forgotten
to cart the lit 1c black implements away. She sits
down wearily, and breakfasts off coagulated
sausages and tepid tea, reading, the while, the
“births, deaths, and marriages:” the only portion
of the paper she ever peruses. Then she shuttles
off, yawning, to “dress.”
* * *
We have in Sydney the resthetio barmaid,
the sedate, the demure, the nautical, and 1 ho mys-
terious. The aesthetic barmaid is a tallyoung lady
with a mathematical mind; for she has apparently
mastered the problem of how to dress like a
duchess on £50 a year. She has gleaming teeth, a
complexion of roses, and limpid eyes. She Is to be
found In a select caf J bar. \\ hero everything that
is not sixpence is a shilling, and the tender of a
lonely little threepenny-bit would be received with
scorn and derision. Idulla has a very large crowd at
her Balmorals. If men wer • not to be seen there
all day in a condition of mental imbecility conse-
quent on excessive devotion, this would be ap-
parent from the amount of gorgeous jewellery
she is bedecked in. Costume in the morning:
Elaborately brocaded peignoir, trimmed with the
richest lace; ornaments, diamonds. At night, cos-
tume: black satin: ornaments—diamonds, pearls,
emeralds, and rubies. Idalia is supposed to be
highly educated, and her con vernation is invariably
conducted on the genteelest principles. She won t
permit any man to swear in her presence, and if a
customer wants a lemon-squash, he has to make it
imself. Amongst her admirers are a number of
octogenarians—feeble flutterers who walk as stiffly
as if they had been woundup by clockwork, and
who pay her elaborate compliments of the John-
sonian kind, each about twice the length of the
Mont Cenls tunnel. Idalia takes all she can get;
and let us hope as wo used to say in our
“ grace,” that for what she has received she
is 7, truly thankful.” There is a rumour in Idalia’s
circle that she is the unfortunate possessor of a
pulmonary “ churchyarder,” and is the support of
a widowed aunt. Many assort that they have
heard the distant echo of the cough, but no one
has ever seen the widowed aunt. Tuere are scep-
tics-miserable beings-who aver that the widowed
relative is a myth, and the “churchyarder’' merely
a “stall lor lozenges.” Such men, so long as a
line of Bladen's poetry presses a groaning earth,
oughtn’t to bo allowed to live.
• • •
The buoyant barmaid you will find in a
threepenny bar—perhaps in George-street. She has
a frizzy head of hay-eokured hair, and possesses a
passion for “make up ” and tin jewellery. She
wears a locket ol such abnormal dimensions that
a rumour pervaoes the place that, whenever one
of hor “ mashers ” gets " .District-Courted,” he
hides away iu it for a day or two until his friends
can make up theamount of verdict. Dolly is good-
natured and a great favourite. Her general saluta-
tion is; “How are you, old sport?” She is extremely
outspoken; and will think nothing of adjuring some
small pro. in a room full of people to “sober up
and keep olf it.” Her conversation is lively, and
she is the delight of the swell law clerks and store-
youths who ply their avocations in the immediate
vicinity. The sedate barmaid, now, is of an entirely
different typo. She is in a swell theatrical bar, and >s
invariably addressed by her name in full—Miss
Macdoodle. She is fair aim slim and thirty; and
passes the lime, when not serving, in continually
sowing. We have known her tor years, but wo
never saw her but once when she wasn't sewing,
and then she was tatting. She knows, does Belinda,
all the best of the pros., but she doesn’t think
much of the profession. Her life is one series ot
painful disonclmntments. Long before male
stars arrive, their counterfeit \-.resentments iu
several colours are hung up in her bar.
She sees classic faces and picturesque forms in
graceful attitudes of valour and of supplication.
She is held for days by eyes made glittering by the
art of the pi inter. At length the “ star ” arrives.
He is brought in and introduced. She sees either
a burly, nuromaniic-looking blusterer, who dives
desperately at the lunch, and answers all questions
put to him with his mouth full, or else a little
undorgrown lollow, with a blue chin, a splay foot,
and a wonderful talent for saying nothing. Not
tho boldest of customers ever tries any larks with
Belinda. All can sec at once there is that within
her which forbids familiarity. On one occasion,
though, a rough theatrical manager did seek to
engage her in conversation of a gi niy nature. She
didn’t say anything, but went upstairs and filled
tho ewer with her tears. Next day, as the manager
(he is dead now, of course!) was giving humanity,
a treat by "doing the Block," ho was accosted by
a tall young fellow, who, In a somewhat pressing
manner, asked him "if ho wanted anything for
himself.” Tnls was Belinda's husband. The mana-
ger didn't want anything.
» • *
The nautical Hebe, of course, lives down
by tho water. She is petite and pretty, and has a
complexion ami eyes which cause havoc in the
hearts of midshipmen—the souls rend of captains
and edict officers. Phoebe manages a large hotel
all alone; and us her customers vary from tho low-
est wharf-lumper to tho ocean steamship captain,
her experience is as broad and general as her
clientele is promiscuous Lumpers, it must be re-
membered, converse eo irely in oaths, and they
cannot uame an aniclo on this terrestial sphere,
without prefixing it with a roseate adjective.
They curse and quarrel and tight, and fight and
quarrel and curse. They do this all tho time, but
Phoebe is quite uuinoved. she knows everyone of
their Christian names, and on rare occasions re-
monstrates with them. They are all fond of
Phoebe, it seems and a few words from her will
generally quell a disturbance. In tho intervals of
the vacarmc she will flirt with officeis of the mer-
chant marine, and wither tho hearts of shipping-
clerks. She has been there for years—for years
living In that foetid atmosphere of smoke, and
beer-ices, and a hundred horrors which cling to the
bar of a common public-house. Vet her eyes are
as bright, her cheeks as rosy, and her i eeth ns white
ns though she had lived all her life on curds and
whey amongst the butter-cups ana the daisies.
• • •
The demure barmaid, whom wo have the
pleasure of introducing to our fair constituents, is
not, perhaps, so remarkable for her demure ness as
for her hair. She wears it in twisted rolls, each
about tho thickness of tho Atlantic cable, and her
mode of frizzing is only known to her looking-
glass and tho angels. She has large grey eyes,
has Norn, ot a wondrous brilliancy, and upon
her has been lavished so groat an amount of
adulation from the bar generally, that, though she
»ls demure even with a rising young junior, she
never spreads herself out to smile on anything less
than a District Court Judge or a Queen s Counsel.
Norah dresses invariably in black, and her figure
is unexceptionable. Her voice is musical, and her
face just pale enough to be interesting. Alto-
gether, wo consider Norah to be a model barmaid;
but if she be not a model barmaid, she is, at any
rate, a barmaid who is a very good model.
♦ * *
Tho mysterious barmaid (who comes next)
is a mystery, indeed. She has a face of surpassing
loveliness, and a No. 3 dimple in each cheek. Her
bower is a house haunted by civl servants, who
seem to get in by every door except the front one,
and to uorvado tho hotel in a manner startling to
tho stx-anger. Any day you can see Government
clerks of every grade
“ Up stairs and down stairs,”
Sometimes the mysterious barmaid is in the bar;
but generally not. If, however, she happens, on
the occasion of your advent, to preside over tho
whisky, you will invariably find her deep in a
“yellow-back” novel. She is dreamy, and pen-
sive, and absent. IShe sighs ns she pushes you
the sherry, is deaf to little remarks about
tho weather ; and if you want change for
half-a-sover<-ign, she looks up from her book with
an expression half-bored, naif-beseeching, and
asks you to call again when you’re passing. There
are a number of rumours current about this young
lady, the most prominent of them being that her
heart is bowed down on account of her love for a
certain Minister, and though she carries round her
neck in a locket a piece of grizzled whisker, the
cont inual consciousness of his being already a good
deal married uuwomans her. It was also said that
in the dark and silent watches of tho night sounds
as of “ O Alick I” issued from her apartment; but
it is only fair to the lady to state that she indig-
nantly denied the whole thing, and maintained
that having a very bad throat, she was gargling it,
and concluded that the people of the house must
—as would bo natural lu an affection of the thorax
—have heard the “ thrush ” singing.
* * *
Now, ladies, you know everything about
barmaids that it is discreet to tell you. It’s all
over, so you can bring your pretty faces from
behind your fans and own that those “dreadful
creatures” are not so dreadful after all. What,
going are you? So soon? James! Lady Flipper-
son’s carriage.


Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREA V LIVER REMEDY,
Australia's fa • ourit remedy. We all suffer more
r less from liver «om plaint, thereby hindering’
then organs from lulliliing their function?. Set
♦he liver in order by taking the above remedy, and
hfArt, lungs, brain, and stomach will unite in
graceful chorus.
ABBAH.IM’S pills,
The true invlgorator. If your vital forces are
1‘reseed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, <>r a presentiment of coming
disaster, your liver is uneoual to its work. To
obviate all these sym ptoms there is no remedy so
mire and certain as
ABRAHAM’S FILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion of
the maladies and ailments attacking the human
frame are really due l o a disordered liver. Set this
organ in order and health returns as if by magic.
CAUTION 10 THE PUBLIC,
As there are Imitations, ask for ABltAHAM’S
PILLS. See that each box, by whomsoever sold,
boars the inventor’s name and trade mark. The
George Street, Sydney.
'ONEY LOANS GRANTED at moderate inte-
rest on Purn ture (without possession),
Bonds, Certifiedtes. Shares, or other Socu-
K
rities, payable to suit > onvenlence.
Ho Deduction made from amount Required,
which will be paid in 1 .ill within twelve hours of
application.
MONT DE PIETE CENTRAL LOAN OFFICE,
98 Castlk eaoh Street,
One door South of King Street.
0 R K I N~O CLASSES,
GENERATE VOUtt OWN GAS.
K E E L v , A N D c q
71 Goulbum -street, Sydney.
Dealers In Portable Gas, Gaseliers, Lamps, and
Fluid. Comfort, Economy, and Safety.
Mr. Keoly, on behalf of the Patent Portable Gas
Co., had charge of the lighting of the hall and
supper rooms at the Hay Demonstration, and the
lighting of Croydon Station. He undertakes to
teach his customers in three minutes the mode of
lighting.
A liberal discount will be given to storekeepers
on remittances per ordi rs, and goods forwarded
with quick despatch. Orders and remittances to
be sent to the above address. No orders attended
to without remittance.
LIST OF PRICES:
1 Light Gasalier 70s
3 do do 50s
i do do 35s to 45s
Wall bracket lamp, burn 16 hours.. 17s 6d
do do 9 do .. 15s
Table lamps, 2 branch .. .. .. 60s
do 1 do 45s
Brass Brackets .. 40a
All Globes and Fittings .. .. 5s extra
Fluid, in cases, 8 gal 3s fid per gal.
1 gal. fluid gives a light equal to 12s worth kero-
sene. Instructions as to tl o mode of lighting sent
to clients with despatch ol goods.
Goods sent to all pat ts of the Colonies.
EVERY DESCRIPTION OF FISHING TACKLE,
Wholesale and Retail.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE STREET.
Y. E. ANGLE’S
(Late of 31 Market street),
Fashionable Tailoring Establishment
636 GEORGE STREET,
Brickfield Hill.
A large and well-assorted stock of Tweeds and
Coatings, direct from the manufacturers, always
on hand.
Ail Garments Cut In the most Fashionable Styles.
PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
Note the Address -
636 George St., Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY.
ERNEST CARTER,
Wardell Saw and Planing Mills,
RICHMOND RIVER.
AH Timber Is thoroughly seasoned before it
leaves these Mills, and is very light for carriage
up-country, and fit for Immediate use.
PINE, CEDAR, BEECH, FLOORING, LINING.
Mouldings, Architraves. The Trade only Supplied.
A. QOHMAN,
Late of the Telegraph Hotel, In verell,
HAS OPENED THE
4 Cl0.rO3TLCa.O3rL,’
Corner of ELIZABETH & PARK Streets,
And which he intends to keep as a first-class Hotel,
A. G. hopes, by strict attention to Business, to
gain a share of their PATRONAGE. \
will find this surpasses most of tin
HOTELS for ACCOMODATION and ev
VENTENCE ; and, as it overlooks HYDE
must necessarily be WELL
SUITES of ROOMS for FAMILIES,
as per agreement.
HOT and COLD WATER BATHS.
PORTER in Attendance Day and Night.
It Is not necessary to mention the quality, of the
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, &c. &c„ as hefSand al-
ways has been, noted throughout the COLON IES
tor selling nothing but the very beat.
ISITORS
leading
I'ry CON-
PARK, It
BULL & ADRIAN,
Merchant Tailors,
iff
SAY
SO
ALL
OF
US
470 Georg 1 e-street, opposite the Markets,
SYDNEY.
PAPERHANGING S!
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSERY PAPERS.
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, &C.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwick,
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &c.
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE
COFFEE PALACE,
231 GEORGE STREET NORTH.
JOHN JOHNSON, Pkopkietor.
HAVING opened the above, the Proprietor ha®
supplied a want long felt in Sydney. The
first floor contains spacious Ladies and Gentle-
men’s Dining and Drawing Rooms, also Suites and
Single Bedrooms (viz., 45 bedrooms), will be open
shortly. A trial solicited.
CALL AND INSPECT.
THOMAS MUNRO,
SW HERALDIC ARTIST AND ENGRAVER,
PLAIN AND FANCY STATIONER,
10 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
A Large and varied assortment of Letter Books,
Account Books, and all oflice requisites. Purses,
Albums, Plush Bags, and Reticules; Artists' Mate-
rials, Photo, and Picture 'Frames, Illuminated
Scripture and other texts. Birthday, Condolence,
and Memorial Cards.
Agent for August Huenerbcln for Pianos, Or-
gans, and Music. The Engraving workshop being
under my own management, I feel confident in
suiting the public taste.
E WOLFF AND SON,
• Manufacturers of
Black Lead Pencils, Drawing Chalks. Crayons,
Artists’ Materials, and Stationers' Sundries.
Makers, by appointment, to Her Majesty's Govern-
ment and the Bank of England.
Oflice and Warehouse: 55 Great Queen-street,
Lincoln’s Inn Fields, W.C. Factory; Falcon Pencil
Works, Battersea, London, S.W. A full set of
samples can be seen, and further particulars ob-
tained, on application to
E. B. WOLFF (Solo Agent for N.S.W.), care Of
Messrs. Feldheim, Gotthelf and Co., 30 Hunter-
Street, Sydney.
gKCURE A LOT AT SPRING rIDE
£1 DEPOSIT, £1 PER MONTH.
FORTUNATUS FINANCIAL, LAND, AND
INVESTMENT COMPANY,
3 17 PITT STREET,
Near Temperance Hall.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
WIRE WORKERS, *
WISH to call your attention to WIRE GOODS
we make and have in stock as under
FLOWER STANDS, for holding flowers in pots,
made of iron and wire, handsomely framed and
bronzed, suitable for rooms, halls, balconies, ver-
andahs, and conservatories. Also, WIRE FERN
BASKETS, all sizes and prices.
SIEVES and SCREENS, for screening lime,
gravel, coal, &c., all meshes, from 1 hole to 100
holes to the squares inch.
WIRE LATTICE-WORK, for protection of wln-
CAGES of every description, for canaries aad
parrots, singly or in nests, suitable for store-
keepers.
And every description of WIRE WORK made on
the premises.
EASTWAY, BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE-STREET.
Illustrated Catalogues on application.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED,
IF your Chemist or Grocer cannot or will i
supply you with the “PAINLESS CO
RELIEVER,’’ write direct to the Registered P
prietor, who will forward a bottle to all parts
Australasia, Post Free, for 2s. 6d.
Address;—JOHN CLOWES,
One Mile Creek, Gymph
ESTABLISHED 1837,
FOWLER’S POTTERY and
BRICKWORKS,
C'AMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
THE AUSTRALIAN
Diamond Drill Company.
CONTRACTS will be undertaken by the above
Company to bore any sized boles, vertical o»
horizon tal, up to
3 INCHES, OR LARGER IF REQUIRED,
to any depth, at a reduction of 35 PER CENT.
BELOW ANY PREVIOUS CHARGE.
The Company, in all cases, will find their own
fuel and water for drilling purposes, and will make
no charge for loss of diamonds or wear and tear on
plant, and will also provide workmen engineers, &o.
The now duplex barrel, Introduced into the
colony by Mr. J. Coghlan, will be used free of
charge to persons searching for minerals.
Mr. Coglan has every confidence, from his prac-
tical knowledge of the Diamond Drill, that he will
be able to give genelQj satisfaction, as well as quick
despatch to all orders addressed to the
Temporary Offices, 311 George-street.
JOHN COGHLAN,
General Manager, pro. tern.
Singer’s Sewing Machines.
turnefT & CO.
Are the Recognised Agents of the
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS:
3s. 6d. per week—3s. 6<L per week—Ss. 6d. per week.
And no interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE “SINGER.”
TURNER & COMPANY,
363 George-street.
THE ONLY “SINGER.”
Turner and Company,
578 GEORGE STREET.
\
k
WRBUHGIS.
I/U TAILOR..
J3F" VISIT 11. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT. 170 PITT STREET,
FOB
CHEAPNESS, FIT. AND WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any
part of the Colony.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 Park Street,
IMPORTERS
of
PIANOS,
by every maker
of renown, from
£35 and up-
wards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
Pianos! Pianos! Pianos!
FREE TRADE and NO MONOPOLY.
Live and Let Live, these are Our Mottoes.
It is a well-known fact that the Foundations o
Colossal Fortunes have been established upon the
Profits arising from the SALE OF PIANOS in this
City during the past Twenty Tears by those
having little or no knowledge of the Construction
and Details of the Pianoforte. While giving the
Public the benefit of our Mr. Young’s 35 years’
personal practical experience (5 years In John
Broadwood and Sons, London, and 30 in N.8.W.),
wo will, at the same time, be satisfied with a fair
percentage on the Co-operative Principle, sharing
the Profits with our Customers. Wo will sell from
35 per cent, less than the same class of Instrument
can be Purchased at any Music Shop in Sydney,
and we will offer nothing for Sale we cannot
fruarantee. American Organs at proportionately
ow prices. Also a Large Stock of Kohn’s Cele-
brated Austrian Furniture, a single article of
which we are selling at Wholesale Prices.
Come and See Our LITTLE BEAUTIES in Wal-
nut and Full Iron Frame, at £35 cash, Eleswhere
£10 more, or under a Liberal Time Payment Sys-
tem.
George E. Young and Co.,
285 PITT STREET,
South of Royal Arcade.
BRAUN’S WALTHAM WATCHES.
TOOK FIRST PRIZE
And all the Gold Medals at every Exhibition.
MADE ESPECIALLY FOR
B. BRAUN,
Watchmaker, Jeweller, & Optician,
37 0 GEORGE STREET,
Near the Post Office.
The Largest Stock of Waltham Watches in Sydney.
500 to select from.
Silver Walthams from £3 to £13
Gold Walthams from £8 to £45.
Warranted from two to Sevan years.
tST Only at B. BRAUN, 370 George Street
rilUB FEDERAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA
-L (Limited)
Incorporated under Act of Parliament.
CAPITAL, £1000,000 ; SUBSCRIBED, £665,000.
Directors :
The Hon. W. A. Brodribb, M.L.C., Chairman.
W. H. Eldred, Esq., J.P. I F. T. Humphery, Esq.,
Robert Hudson, Esiq. M.P.
I J. Y. Mills, Esq., J.P.
Manager ; F. S. Macdermott.
Accountant: John Docker.
Solicitors: Messrs. Robertson, Fisher, and Ralfe.
Temporary Banking House. 257 George-street,
North, with branch at the Haymarket.
Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies
and in Europe.
Highest rates of interest given on Deposits, and
all usual Banking business transacted without
delay to customers.
F. S. MACDERMOTT, Manager.
W. H. Ariel / and Co.’ s Agencies.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, Canter-
bury, Normanby, and Christmas Family Cakes,
Plum Puddings, Mincemeat, Sell-raising
A)rated Flour, Infant’s Food, Treacle and
Golden Syrup.
EXCELSIOR MILLS.—Superior Victorian Oat-
meal and Pearl Barley.
DILLON & BURROWS'* prize assorted Confec-
tionery.
J. KITCHEN & SONS, No. 1 Mottled and Toilet
Soaps.
J. F. M f KENZIE & CO.’S Coffee, Mustard, Cocoa,
Tea, in and lib. packets ; dressed Rice,
and Patent Groats.
HUNT & CO.’S Prize Baking Powders, Adelaide
Jams Paper Bags, &o.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
Coolalta Wine, Bodega,
MORT’S PASSAGE, back of Messrs. W. H.
Paling and Co.’s.
Choicest Wines, by the glass or bottle, may be had
at the Bodega. Hot Spiced Wines during Winter.
Open from 9 a.m. till 6 p.m.
TVANCING.—Prof. WEST’S Classes. — Private
J. 9 Lessons, Monday and Thursday mornings ;
afternoon classes,Thursdays. Evening: Beginners,
Mondays, 8 p.m.; Thursdays, 7.80 p.m.; Advanced,
8.30 p.m., at Tattersall’s New Hall, Hunter-street.
Second term now commencing. During present
school holidays there will be time for private
lessons in new waltz, &c. 251 Elizabeth-street.
835'“ The Dancing Academy being the largest in
Sydney, there are now vacancies, quarter dating
from entrance.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIAKTV8 SHORT HORN BOURBON.—The
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon bo the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like It.
S. HOPFNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
THE HARWOOD
Fibre Chair Seating,
Possessing all the qualities of a perfect sent, viz. :
Strength, Durability, Ease. Beauty, Cleanliness
and Cheapness.
r | HIS CHAIR SEAT is made from the strongest
i known fibres and a perfectly waterproof
cement, and after fifteen years’ constant use, wo
can speak positively as to its merits. It cannot
split or check, neither will exposure to sun or rain
affect it. 1
Awarded Gold Medal nt the late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
For RE-SEATING it is unrivalled. In every
house, store and office, are chairs wit h seats broken.
Any person cun ro-scat and make as good as new a
chair that is otherwise worthless, at a very trilling
ex pensc.
FOR SALE DY THE TRADE FOR HOME USE.
Agents Wanted in Every District.
From £3 to £5 a week can be made by any smart
man or boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
83 CLARENCE STREET.
T
O BE DISPOSED OF BY SUB-
SCRIPTION
on the
ART UNION PRINCIPLE,
fie: f)f)f) Pounds worth of f 1 r nnn
<LIJ,UUU freehold Properties. <LIO,UUU
In 15,000 Shares of £1 Each :
1st Prize, £8000—Hardwicke Estate, Yass, N.S.W.,
3700 Acres.
3nd Prize, £3000, Farm, 800 Acres, near Gunning,
N.S.W.
3rd Prize, £2000, “ St. Kilda House,” Goulburu, 16
Rooms (insured £1000).
4th Prize, £800, “Two-storied House” In Cliff ord-
street, Goulburn.
5th Prize, £400
6th Prize, £150
7th Prize, £120
8th Prize, £130
9th Prize, £85
10th Prize, £75
11th Prize, £75
12th Prize. £75
13th Prize, £75
14th Prize, £25
15th Prize £25
16th Prize £35
The following gentlemen have consented tc act as
Committee:—
J. T. GANNON Esq., M.L.A., Goulburn,
JOHN BADGERY, Esq., Sutton Forest.
A. M. BETTS, Esq., Solicitor, Goulburn.
R. C. COOPER, Es«., Willeroo, Lake George.
JOHN DAVIDSON, Esq., Solicitor, Goulburn,
S. EMANUEL, Esq., J.P., Goulburn.
S. MEYER, Esq., J.P., Goulburn.
The DRAWING will take place in the Mechanics'
Institute, Goulburn, in the presence of the Com-
mittee, on 30th August next, and will be open
ne Shareholders.
For particulars see Prospectus, which may
had upon application to J. J. ROBERTS, Sec
tary, Box 33, Post-offloe, Goulburn. Local Agents
will be appointed in most of the principal Towns of
NiS.W,
Send Stamp for Prospectus.


Nowhere perhaps has the dentist’s art obtained
such high excellence as in Sydney. Certainly we
are in no sense behind any other city. Visitors to
Sydney might, to test this, visit the establishment
or Messrs. Adolphe Gabriel and Company, 18 Wyn-
yard Square, two doors from Pfanlert’s Hotel.
Here the manufacture of every essential in the
£rofession is carried on. At the rear of the surgery
i a compact little factory where all the requisites
for supplying every dental defect in the human
mouth are made. Messrs. Gabriel and Co. (whose
only address is as above) are always pleased to
show their specimens of artificial teeth to those
interested. There being two firms of the same
name in the Square, patients will oblige by paying
particular attention to the Christian name, Adolphe,
and the number, 18, two doors from Pfahlert’s
Hotel.— Advt.
Messrs. Precious, Doust & Co.’s Ware-
house.
There are not wanting proofs all over Sydney of
the wonderful development of trade in this rapidly
rising metropolis. There is, probably, no other
city in the world of the size, where there are so
many buildings in course of erection, or such alter-
ations and extensions in progress as in this city,
and what is observable in every street in Sydney
is likewise to be seen in all its suburbs. The ware-
house of Messrs. Precious, Doust, and Co., fancy
warehousemen and importers, shown in the accom-
panying engraving, has been opened but three or
four years and already it is the locale of an extensive
and growing business. The warehouse has an ex-
tensive frontage to King and York Streets, the
great business streets of the Metropolis, and has
tour capacious floors. The uppermost floors have
recently been opened to allow of a better display
of open stock, and all through the warehouse there
is, in this important respect, as good an arrange-
ment as may be found In any similar house of
trade in the colonies. The warehouse hero des-
cribed is, in reality, a great repository of
open or sample goods, all advantageously ar-
rayed and marked, the bulk stock being
kept in extensive premises in tho neigh-
bourhood of the wharves. This arrangement
offers singular facility for business and gives very
valuable space. The almost innumerable articles
comprised in tho wholesale fancy goods business
are displayed in sliding cases and shelves, &o.,
several export salesmen being devoted to each
department. To notice the more particular linos
of tho firm’s business, tobacconists’ wares are made
a speciality, comprising all the latest novelties,
among them a largo line of new wooden pipes,
silver-mounted, up to 60s., celluloid cigar cases,
&o. Pocket and table cutlery are likewise an im-
portant branch. Then comes stationary—valentines
and birthday cards being important items, the firm
doing in these a trade second to none in Sydney-
all the latest Parisian and London designs being im-
ported. A stationer’s shop can here be fitted out
complete with paper, pens, inks, novels, standard
works, &o. And another line of use is the paper-
bag trade, goods in this respect being provided for
the grocery, millinery, or other branches of busi-
ness. On the second floor is a grand display of
dolls of every description, and the new great lino of
silver and American gold Jewellery. This latter
line has proved a big hit. It is 10 per cent, gold,
and preserves its appearance for years. The style
of work is most artistic, and most of the goods
may now be found in the shops of the leading
jewellers of Sydney. A great line with tho firm is
cricketing goods—a splendid business being done
with the city houses, and those in tho most distant
parts of the interior. The goods comprise Bart-
lett’s, Cobbett’s, and Grirawood’s; and already the
first shipment of the season has been cleared. The
clipper ship Newcomen, now about due, brings to
the firm the largest special shipment of cricket
goods yet made to any single house. In this
branch, of course, are to be found lawn tennis,
croquet, and other materials. An interesting line,
now for the first time imported, is the now shapes
in ladies’ hand-bags, illuminated with flowers in
plush, sealskin, satin and silk. A good business is
done in colonial and English saddlery. A most
extensive stock of perfumery is shown In a special
department, and near by are to be seen the
newest designs in photo, frames—those of tho
• Helen’s Baby ” description having met with an
extraordinary sale. With the newest designs in
ladies’ companions, are to be seen the handsomest
things in work-boxes and dressing-cases. A speci-
ality of the firm’s business is the electro-nickel
plated ware, the latest American designs being
very attractive. The firm are arranging for a big
development of this branch of their business. A
separate department is devoted to musical instru-
ments, and the open stock comprises almost every
article in the trade. A speciality is likewise made
of firearms, from tho ordinary weapon up to the
latest pattern breech-loading rifle. American,
Continents!, and English clocks are there in great
number, glassware, lampware, ornaments, forget-
me-not ware, &c.; and there is the attractive line
of colonred photos., among the collection being
historic and rural scenery of the three kingdoms—
all executed in a very artistic style. Among the
huge profusion of hardware articles, are to be
seen the celebrated paper dishes—more durable
than iron, and lighter and harder than any other
pattern. Tinware and brushware are also included
in the business: and a big trade is likewise done in
iron bedsteads. The explanation of tho firm’s
success is that the partners are men who h.tve had
many years’ practical experience in tho faney
trade of the colonies. There is a 'branch of the
firm’s business in London, managed by one of the
partners, and monthly supplies of goods are sent
along from this great centre to the Sydney house.
About six months ago, Mr. Precious, the senior
partner, proceeded to England to bettor arrange
for supplies of Australian requirements; and
these goods, now for tho first time Imported to the
colonies, are coming along. The firm now do what
probably no other firm has yet had the enterprise
to carry out. Mr. Precious took over with him
from England to the Continent an interpreter and
staff of office men, and has made extensive pur-
chases of fancy goods from all the small manufac-
turers in and around the big cities of the Continent.
By these means quite a now line of goods have been
obtained, and tho purchases being for cash—tho
goods are laid down here In Sydney at from 15 to
20 per cent, cheaper than they ever were before
offered in Sydney. From 10 to 15 per cent, alone is
saved by thus evading the London importer’s
charges. The firm do a business all round the
colonies, largely with Queensland and Tasmania,
and soon be extending it into Now Zealand. Seven
travellers are kept in constant operation all over
the colonies. *
Messrs. Hanson, Lewis, and Co.’s Monu-
mental Works, Sydney.
The monumental works of Mess re. Hanson, Lewis,
and Co. are situated at the junction of Bent-street,
Phillip-street, and Elizabeth-street, Sydney, and
are certainly the most extensive of the kind in the
colonies. They form an important branch of a still
more important business, as the lirm have also
extensive works in Melbourne and Adelaide, with
a branch in Italy, as a source of supply of marble
and the bettor description of art work in statuary,
&c. The firm has been established twelve years in
business in these coldnles—for the last live years
in Sydney, where they have been particularly suc-
cessful. In fact, their work is now to be found in*
all the principal cities and towns of Australia,
showing that their establishment here has met a
long-existing want. The work executed is alto-
gether of a superior description, the best sculptors
procurable in the colonies being in continual em-
ployment on the premises. There is a large con-
sumption of the beautiful sandstone of our own
territory, but the most Important, substantial, and
durable work is always done in the celebrated
Scotch red and grey granite, and world-renowned
Carrara marble. Of these two latter, more is pro-
bably used at these works than at any other five
similar establishments in the colonies. For a long
time it was thought there was no taste in the
colonies for these materials, but the artistic work
of the sculptor has developed that taste, and the
enterprise of tho firm has been duly rewarded. At
the Sydney Necropolis, may be seen columns and
obelisks beautifully executed in this perennial grey
and red granite, and In the tombs of our leading
public citizens—the men of the past—may be seen
artistical figures in this beautifully illuminated
Carrara marble. Many of the designs, of course,
are those which have won fame in England and
Italy, and now they are Justly popular in Austra-
lia. The firm executes work in all parts of the
colonies, and will forward designs on application.
At the works, just now, may be seen the finest
specimens in the colonies of statuary, in Carrara
marble, of the historic men of the time—Abraham
Lincoln, President Garfield, Ben. Disraeli. Charles
Dickens, &c. They excel anything seen anywhere
in the colonies, and are not surpassed by the best
things in the Melbourne Museum. It Is to be hoped
the Government will secure these art exhibits for
our public domains or institutions. Tho works are
well worth a visit of inspection.*
The gentle Corydon who governs one of
the principal financial institutions of Sydney was
asked by Blankman for a temporary advance on
the security of a valuable mining property.
Sternly the bank manager refused. “ My dear sir,”
quoth the man of money, “ wore the angel Gabriel
to specially descend and require accommodation
for mining, and, at the same time, His Satanic
Majesty proffered for discount a commercial bill, I
should unhesitatingly prefer the business of the
latter.” “Ah!” murmured Blankman, medita-
tively, in reply, “blood is thicker than water.
Good-day!”
They say that New York pay* three times
more for its drinks than for its religion. We
shouldn’t wonder. And we shouldn’t wonder,
either, if their proportionate valuation was correct.
In Sydney, we give, perhaps, half as much for our
religion as for our rum; but that Is rather because
the rum is particularly bad than because the re-
ligion is particularly good. Quite seriously, though,
it is very sad to think how much most men ai e
willing to pay for the privilege of getting drunk
than for a prospect to heaven. It is not compli-
mentary to the parsons. Now, if they would only
enter into an alliance with the publicans, the ser-
vants of the Lord would be able to scoop the
devil’s vineyard and their own, too.
And, oh 1 tho sweethearts of that time —
So fiercely, loved, so soon forgotten!
Dream memries of some far off clime,
Where haply once was cast my lot in.
Fair forms surrounded by a golden
Aureole of romance long over,
Ye come, as in tho days now ©Iden,
And, spirit-like, around me hover.
Dear Jottie, with tho eyes of grey—
The veriest flirt that ever flirted;
There came an hour, there pass’d a day,
When on the brink of Fate we skirted.
It pass’d, and left us mem’ries only
Of what has been, and ceased to bo.
Now I am grey, and you in lonely
Devotion, still are “ fancy free.”
And Jessie of the golden hair.
Her eyes half-laughing, half-appealing.
My heart—now sadly worse for wear—
From out my keeping softly stealing.
Dear vision of tho days departed,
Life’s eddies drifted us away
On sep’rate currents, broken-hearted
For a long “ year—a month—a day.”
Enough! The glamour long has faded
Youth’s golden am’let charms no more!
With life’s rough hack-race blown and jaded,
And years fast treading on two-score,
’Tis time to bid Romance good morrow!
And, looking on its sunset rays,
Some pleasures for tho Future borrow
From mem’ries of those brave old days!
W.J.B.
Wagga Wagga, July 29,1883.
MESSRS. PRECIOUS, DOUST & CO.’S WAREHOUSE, KING AND YORK-STREBTS, SYDNEY.
"The Brave Old Days.”
IN MEMORIAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In memory of bravo old days.
When Life was young’ and worth the living;
When, flashing through its golden rays,
Each moment some now joy was giving.
Old comrades of the years gone by.
In spirit fill, with me, your glasses;
And drink, between a laugh and sigh,
To the bravo days that now are ashes!
Ah! one by one, ye pass before me,
The tried old mates of other times;
The glamour of the Past comes o’er me,
When I recall you in these rhymes.
Once more I feel my horse beneath me
Bound fiercely to the spur’s light sting:
Once more the myall sprays enwreath me
Whilst the wild herd are mustering.
Mad “Dick the Devil”—champion rider
Of all the far and wide Balonne—
Long since has found a run still wider,
And ’neath the gum-trees sleeps alone.
The life untamed which throbb’d and quiver’d—
The lion-heart—the nerve of steel —
Are now alike struck down and shiver’d
Beneath the blow all champions feel
Early or late. Black Jack the Ringer,
King of the WoolshedI shears no more.
His tally’s closed: no more he’ll linger,
At sundown, to check off his score.
Behind a Roma bar-room spacious,
Black Jack now clips the Shearer’s wing;
With years, ’tis said, he’s grown capacious—
Such changes Time too oft will bring.
The Nooze, the other day, recommended
rubbing as efficacious in hardeniny the hands for
pugilistic purposes. AVell—
One tiling is certain —’tis no chaff —
There is no mind so dull
But sees each member of that staff
Has rubb’d to stone his skull.
It turns out now that, under the Mosque
of Hebron, the bones of Abraham, Sarah, Isaac,
and Rebekah repose. When Dean Stanley and
the Prince of Wales were on their travels, they
called to see those sacred relics. Permission was
at first refused, but, under pressure, leave was at
last granted, and Wales stood in presence of those
famous Jews (they were not known as Israelites
until long afterwards), whose names have come
down to us through the centuries. The Mahome-
dan attendants, it is said, sobbed with sorrow when
they observed the Prince nonchalantly take up
Abraham’s fibula and pass it to the Dean for ex-
amination. Stanley was heard to say, as he pocketed
one of Rebekah’s dorsal vertebrae, “The Jews
have made it sultry for me before now; but, by
Jingo, I’ll pay ’em out.”


ASK FOR
<of)e
Olftfotghlawfr
LATE
"James walker
EDINBURGH
~~7i
Registered
TO be had from ALL WINE AND SPIRIT MER-
CHANTS, and WHOLESALE from the
SOLE AGENTS:
JOSEPH BOYD & SON,
1 CHANGE ALLEY, PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Near the Circular Quay).
To be procured in Cases, Casks, Octaves, and Jars
Please read Certificates of its purity ; also,
Certificates from the 43nd Royal Highland Regi-
ment, “THE BLACK WATCH,” and the 71st High-
land Light Infantry, &c., &c., as supplied them by
JAMES WALKER, for 14 years, till nis death, and
still supplied to them by JAMES HADDOW & CO.,
the purchasers of James Walker’s business, with
the right to use his name on all Labels, Invoices,
Seals, and his Trade marks and symbols.
fW Notice—The above label registered.
JOSEPH BOYD & SON.
WRIGHT, HEATON & GO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE ;
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES.
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.S.W.;
Northern District, N.S.W.:
Morpeth Brewarrlna
Gunnedah Tara worth
Narrabri Ural la
Walgett
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Link:
Brisbane Yeulba
Roma Cambooya
Dalby
Central Line:
Rockhampton Capella
Bogantungan Comet
Emerald
Northern Line:
Townsville Ravenswood Junction
Charters Towers
Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
WM. MCULLOCH & CO., LIMITED.
pr Agencies in all parts of the world.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have yourUmbri Ha Frames
re-covered, ar d your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
cuted.
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVERED.
| Foster s Bugle Brand.
Hotel
CORNER CA8TLEKEAQ FI & BATHURST
• STREETS, SYDNEY.
JAMES SHARP,
Late of the Collonnade Hotel, corner of King and
Castlereagh Streets, desires to inform his friends
and the public generally, that he has removed to
the above Hotel, which has been lately known as
the “Hyde Park Hotel,” and which he has tho-
roughly renovated. j. o. trusts that, by his usual
strict attention to business, combined with the best
brands of Wines, Spirits, &c., to merit a fair share
of patronage. J. S. desires to state that he still
draws the famous
“SILVER CUP BRER."
i)p^.
33 COLLEGE STREET, HYDE PARK. SYDNEY,
ARTTFICAL TEETH on the mostapproved Eng-
lish Principles, Fitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastica-
tion, Natural Appearance, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping, Scaling, and Extractions skilfully
performed.
T.A MaSCOTTE CONSULTATIONS.
METROPOLITAN, & MELBOURNE CUP, 1883.
Metropolitan, 5000 shares at 10s. each ... £3500
Melbourne Cup, 10,000 shares at 10s. each £5000
MELBOURNE.
Cup.
1st Horae ... £2000
2nd „ ... 1000
3rd „ ... 500
Starters ... 200
Non-starters... 200
Prize Gifts ... 1000
£5000
SYDNEY.
Metropolitan Stakes.
1st Horae
2nd „
3rd „
Starters ..
Non-starters
Prize Gilts
£2500
Prospectus on application.
The La Mascotte Company thanks the public fm
their support in previous consultations, and hopes
for a continuance of their patronage for this pro-
gramme.
Application, by letter only.
Applicants please state for which event.
D. LINDO,
Box 723, P.O. ;
1»800« on MGI.IIMUniSIS CUP,
oW 1883.
The Third Consultation of my 1883 Series.
“AUSTRALASIA" SWEEP.
12,000 Shares, at 5s each.—An even 4, £1.
First Horse
Second Horae ..
Third Horse
Starters divide ..
Non-Starers
Total, £2000.
£1000
500
250
150
100
10 Prizes at £25—£250
60 „ 10— 500
50 „ 5- 250
£1000
Grand total, £3000
" ho success of former events induces me to an-
nounce the next on the Melbourne Cup, the
greatest racing event of the year, as above.
Results advertised in leading papers, and for-
warded to all subscribers. A pound seenics four
chances- not one only. Ten per cent, is deducted
for all expenses. Applicants are requested to en-
close notes, P.O.O., or crossed cheques (tovvhleh
exchange must bo added), and 4d. stamps lor reply
and result. Register letters.
Address—" AUSTRALASIA,”
Caro of Mr. H. J. FRANKLIN,
Printer and Publisher,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
66
I A M O N IV
MELBOURNE CUP CONSULTATION 1883.
Capital £10,000 in 30,000 Shares of 10 shillings each
DISTRIBUTED AS FOLLOWS:—
dll C Ol Wt OvIlluUllLlIt
Watchmaker and Jeweller,
17 Little Colllus-street East, Melbourne,
(Near Colonial Bank.)
Prizes paid one day after drawing, and Horses
paid two days after event.
Result slips posted to each Subscriber, and also
advertised in daily and weekly papers. Shares sent
per return post. Prospectus on application.
Letters containing cash should be registered.
It country cheques, must bear exchange.
N.B.—“Diamond,” in thanking numerous clients
for their support in previous successful racing
seasons, invites their co-operation in the above.
£3000
For 2s. Gd.
£3000
A COLOSSAL FORTUNE for HALF-A-CRO WN
The “GREAT VICTORY ” SWEEP on the ME
BOURNE CUP. 1883.
To be Run on the 6th November.
This Gigantic Sweep, offering advantages to the
public never before attempted, is the property of
a hon&JUU Company with responsible directors.
CAPITAL: £1(1,000, divided into 80,000 Shares of
2s. 6d. each.
Also, over 1000 Prizes guaranteed, and distributed
as follows:—
1st horse ..
2nd horse ..
3rd horse ..
Starters divide
Non-starters do.
20 Prizes at £50
£3000 1
1000 I
500 I
500 j
250
1000
40 Prizes at £25 ..£1000
100 do. 10 .. 1000
200 do. 5 .. 1000
750 do. 1 .. 750
Total..
..£10,000
Not less
We shall send 9 tickets for u pound
than 2 sent to any single add ress. Send P. O. order,
cheques, or bank notes. If stamps are sent, add
exchange at the rate of Is. in the pound. Should
coin be sent, register letter. Please send 3d. extra
for membership.
The drawing will take place on the 1st November,
and will be conducted by a committee of 150 Share-
holders drawn from the entire body. The result
will be posted to all Shareholders immediately,
and advertised throughout the colonies.
Tickets sent by return post.
Write at once for prospectus. No charge.
Address—" VICTORY,”
Care of George Robertson, 94 Bourke-street,
Next Opera House, Melbourne.
Hvvk Pxotrun "
[W Crur.MS.
1 t :|
ThOM}-u'“ fN'Vrl/iM
SSF Rockhampton
D. & R, BRADFORD,
Ironfounders, General
Blacksmiths, &c.,
CITY FOUNDRY,'
121 LIVERPOOL STREET,
and at
201 ELIZABETH STREET,
Between Bathurst and Park Streets.
All kinds of Ornamental Casting's, Wrought Iron
Pal landings, Wrought and Cast Iron Girders, Cast
Iron Water Pipes, Connections, Water and Fire
Plugs.
Estimates given tor all kinds of Ironwork, &o.
K
IRKER, GREER, & CO., DISTILLERS
BELFAST and GLASGOW.
LOCH DHU, very oldest and purest Scotch
W1 ’ '
Huskey.
SHAMROCK, very oldest and purest Irish
m wh‘ ‘
Whiskey.
Won 4 Gold Medals and Australian Exhibitions.
Government Analyst says: Unusually pure,
mellow, and well-matured.
FROM ALL SPIRIT MERCHANTS.
Agent: G. ADAMS,
119 Pitt-st., Sydney, and Flinders-st., Melbournue
a
THE CRITERION,
15 Royal Arcade 15.
t f
FIRST-CLASS LUNCHEON and REFRESHMENT
ROOMS for LADIES and GENTLEMEN.
The comfort of Ladles has been especially attended
to. An ELEGANTLY-FURNISHED APART
TMENT
has been set aside for their sole use. It will be
supplied with writing materials, daily papers,
journals, &c., &c.
Gentlemen In town can obtain, AT ALL HOURS,
COLD LUNCHEONS-Ham, Beef, Tongue, Sar-
dines, Salads, Hard-boiled Eggs, &c., &c.
Cup of Tea or Coffee, with Light Refreshment,
6d.: equal in every respect to the celebrated
“CRITERION” BUFFET, LONDON.
Celebrated American Iced Drinks.
EDWARD MAWBY,
Proprietor.
BLEND
[Trade]
mark)
SiClS
10LLTE BLEND WHISKY—This is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
- - vour. CATTELL & CO., Solo
of taste and flavour,
Agents.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
■U"3n.d.erta,Ils:er,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED,
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Ir. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
lanager for over ten (10) years.
JOHN DANKS,
IMPORTER OF
Skjtlts ail Tricysles
AND ALL THE NECESSARY
Fittings for same,
363 Pitt Street, Sydney.
'•Ill
M !J
m
("" (. n
m
o .
UltlQii
m
av
a?
5
m
m
Ullnmiu
lUu
nv>
Sill
a§
/ s
Pm
Dl Kl
Mil
ImW
A
GENUINE EXTRA
STOUT.
BASS PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have al w ys in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
E A R T H E N W A II E,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
Sole Agent tor
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &c.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE Si'HbH’p.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
TO CONNOISEURS of WHISKEY & BRANDY.
W. & A. Gilley’s CASTLE BRAND WHIS-
KEY and L’OR EJXTRAIT BRANDY are the
oldest and purest spirits imported.
TUCKER ii CO., Agents,
377 Goorge-street.
HUST’S BOOT EMPORIUM, 404 George St.,
near King-street.
Gents’ Boots, French Calf or Kid, superior quality,
from 10s. 6d.
Superior Ladies’ Extra High Glace Kid Button
Boots, superior quality, from 10s. 6d.
Ladies’ Evening Shoes, a great variety, from 4s. 6d.
jyj ELBOURNE CUP,
18 83
LEVIATHAN “ADAMASTOR” COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £30,000 in 40,000 SHARES of 10s Each.
634 PRIZES (more or less), £13,750 for STARS,
and £7350 tor HORSES,
Plan of Astronomical Distribution:
First Horse (winner of the Melbourne Cup)... £3000
Second Horse 1500
Third Horse 750
Starters (divide) 800
Non-starters (do) 1300
V First Star £3000 ***
V Second Star 1000 ♦**
V Third Star 500 **♦
12 stars of £300 each, 100 stars of £100 each, 30
stars of £50 each, 30 stars of £40 each, 45 stars of £25
each, 100 towns of £10 each, 200 towns of £8 each,
85 towns of £6 each, and “ the comet ” £40.
“ Adamastor,” in thanking his subscribers for the
liberal support that he has received from them for
the past three years, and in consequence of the
yearly increase of subscribers, finds it necessary to
double his programme, which he begs herewith to
submit.
All parties are requested to forward drafts, P.O.
orders, or cheques; if cheques, exchange must be
added, and in all cases postage fees; if cash, to
register letter. Application by letter only, ad-
dressed—
“ ADAMASTOR,” care of L. A. Pereira, 34
Bourke-street, west, Melbourne; Box 473, G.P.O.,
Sydney; and Little’s Bass Hotel, corner Pitt and
Market Streets, Sydney.
P.8.—Results sent to country shareholders, and
published in The Australasian, Age, and Sydney
Town and Country.


Scene from a Queens-
land Municipal Council
comedy, Alderman
Jones: “Alderman Brown
Is a liar and an idiot-
yes, a d d idiot.” Aider-
man Brown: “ I will take
the sense of the Council
as to whether I’m a liar
and a d d idiot.” Al-
derman Robinson: “The
Council has no sense to
take, which is lucky, as
Alderman Brown is such
an unmitigated thief that
he’d collar anything ho
could lay his paws on.”
The Mayor; “I trust the
aldermen will keep up the
high reputation this
Council has always had
for decorum in debate.
Petty personalities are
not within the strict
limits of dignified discus-
sion. I need scarcely
draw the attention of
some aldermen who shall
bo nameless to the fact
that there is a spacious
well-fenced yard at the
back, and if Alderman
Jones talnks he can put
a head on Alderman
Brown, I’ll adjourn this
meeting till the matter
is amicably but deci-
sively settled; and I’ll lay
(I to 4 Jones can’t do it.”
Exeunt omnea.
Among other pleas-
iimes we hoar from
Wauchope that a bush
missionary, the Rev. R.
Williams, visited one
family of fifteen children,
and found that their
spiritual wants had been
entirely neglected. They
had no idea of Hell, and
were not sound on the
question of Satan. This
is severe on the resident
minister, who was only
seven miles away. How-
ever, they will soon be
enlightened on those
points, and, when a gaol
is run up near them,
things will go on com-
fortably. Amen.
The Bishop of Mel-
bourne says that a man
may lovo Christ even
though he may not be-
lieve In the resurrection.
We shall soon all be in-
cluded within the ortho-
dox circle. The bound-
ary of the Christian fold
is happily enlarging and
enlarging. O, Bigotry,
where is thy sting? O,
Calvin, where is thy vic-
tory ? It will presently
be admitted that we live
In the very centre of
space, and in the very
middle ot eternity ?
Extract for Sunday
reading for parsons of
all denominations:—" Do
justice >md judgment.”
That's the Bible order,
not praying or psalm-
singing. If a child, find-
ing itself in want of any-
thing, runs and asks its
father for it —does it call
that doing its father a
service ? If it begs for a
piece of cake does it call
that serving its father?
Begging is not serving.
God probably likes beg-
gars as little as we do. He
likes honest servants, not
beggars. And yet many
are imprudent enough to
call prayers and chaunt-
ings Divine Service.
In a quiet country cemetery in Otago, N.Z.,
lies all that was mortal of the late Honorable
Dowbigglng. This departed scion of nobility
acquired a brief, and (for him) unhappy, notoriety
during the ( rluiean war. before the close of that
great struggle, he went out to the theatre of war
as an ollicer—a newly-tledged major, in fact—and
his uncle, Lord Panmure, who was then Secretary
of War, sent a telegram to General Simpson, re-
questing the General to “take care of Dowb."
The General could not comprehend who or what
“Dowb.” was, but feared that ho must be some
bloodthirsty Russian commander, with an immense
army of hungry Cossacks, ready to fall on the rear
of the allies and chew them up. Long telegrams
of enquiry and explanation passed between the
General and the War Office on the subject, and it
then appeared that the dreaded “Dowb.” was no
other than the Minister’s favourite nephew, who
had just landed in the Crimea, and for whose
safety and welfare the noble uncle was greatly
solicitous. This affair became a great joke for the
army. The newspaper correspondents made the
most of it, of course, and Punch published a long
string of satirical verses on the subject, in which
it was stated that the telegrams relating to
“Dowb.” cost the country £400. One of the
verses represents the Secretary of War as
thus urging his nephew’s claims fur promotion
And if you find a lucky chance,
My dear Dowbigglng to advance
High as a Marshal is in France,
You’ll please both me and Dowb.”
Major Dowblgglng was a puny, delicate, kind-heart-
ed fellow, who knew about as much about glorious
war as John Davies knows about spelling. Be-
tween the “ chaff ” of his brother officers, and his
unmartial dislike for any explosive more danger-
ous than a pop-gun, he soon got tired of war’s
alarms and went back to his mother. A year or
two afterwards he left his native land for N.Z.,
and as he was not considered able to manage his
own pecuniary affairs, his money, a considerable
sum, was sent to a gentleman in Otago to
invest for him. In company with an old
Scotch Shepherd and his son Jock, the Major
loft Dunedin to inspect a piece of country for a
shetp and cattle station for himself. The diggings
had broken out, and all the waste ground of the
province were in process of rapid absorption by
the squatters. When the trio reached the promised
land, and had partly inspected it. the old shepherd
took his so si aside and said to Dim: “Jock, laddie,
saidle your horse and awa ye gang to Dunedin,
and pit in an application for a banner thoosand
acres hero awa. Tak’ up a' thi> block betwixt the
twu rivers and frao the ranges yonder doon to the
sea. Tell Dreever and Maclean till pay the dee-
Sosit for me, and I’ll stay here and keep this bodie
aidlin aboot till ye have time to rnak’ a’ slccar.”
Jock did as he was told—secured tho country for
his father, succeeded him ultimately in tho pro-
perty, and is now one of the wealthiest of the
shepherd kings in New Zealand. Poor Major
Dowbigging did not prosper after losing this
ch mco. He drifted hither and thither about the
goldfields for a few years, spent or lost all his
money, and at last died in a diggers hut at
Waitahuna forgotten and unknown. He lies
buried among the tussocks in a little country
cemetery, without a stone or memorial of any
kind to mark the spot.
The Sydney Y.M.C. Association accounts
for past year show a deficit. Were it thus with the
funds of an Agnostic society, the unco guid would
detect the finger of Divine Providence In the debit
balance “The glorious, heaven-born liberty of
the British subject is now being choked by the
fetid breath of hellish tyranny.” That’s what the
Holy Howl said on hearing one Osborne has just
been “sent up” in Tasmania for selling obscene
books. One of the books, by the way, was “ Maria
Monk; or, the Mysteries of a Convent.” Which
accounts for the milk in the cocoa-nut. ..A N.Z.
clergyman complains of the demoralising influence
exercised on the native race by many of the tour-
ists to the Hot Springs. He says: “The visitors
whom we ought to be able to rejoice to see, we
have learned to dread. . . Instead of encourag-
ing these poor people to keep the Sabbath, the
tourists (some of them members of Christian
Churches, and in one Instance a clergyman) pay
them to break it and to dance the haka, which is
lewd in many of its gestures, indecent in its lan-
guage, and demoralising to all.”....
Here is a Sydney idyll told in blanked
verse <1 la Crabbe: —
Mr. George Pegler married widow Ross,
Her Christian name was Jessie, and her dower
A judgment held by drapers in Redfern.
When that the moon of honey had transpired,
And Georgy Porgy brought his Jessie home,
The drapers levied on the husband’s goods;
But he, advised by cunning limbs of law,
By interpleader raised subtle points—
To wit, imprimis, since the judgment ran
’Gainst Mistress Ross, the execution was
Invalid against Pegler: secondly,
That under fortv-two Victoria, eleven,
No hubbv wed since March of ’79
Is liable for wife’s pro-nuptial debts,
Save to extent of assets won with her—
And Jessie came with nix unto her George.
These points —upheld by Marsh —tho drapers
floored _ , . . ,
And saved George Pegler s bacon, and his bride s.
This is how Lord Justice Bramwell argued
in the “Lords” in favour of the Deceased Wife’s
Sister Bill:—“ Suppose ho went to a theologian and
said. ‘ I desire to marry my deceased wife s sister.
Will you tell mo why it is wrong ? Is it put down
in plain language anywhere?’ He (Branwell)
thought there wore texts from which it would
rather be inferred that it was a right thing to do.
In one of the books of the Pentateuch, he thought
the prohibition was limited to the lifetime of the
sister—the first wife. The theologian might say,
“You see you do not understand the matter. If
you wore a consummate Hebrew scholar, and in
addition, knew Greek, if you had read all the
Knbbis have written for the last 1500 years, if you
could understand their subtle reasonings, then you
would see that it is not right for you to marry
your deceased wife’s sister.’ The man might
answer that it was impossible to understand it
then, because he was no Hebrew scholar, he did
not know Greek, and he could not read all the
Rabbis had written on the subject, but he might
say, “ May I take your word for it ? ’ The theolo-
gian, if he were an honest man, would answer,
“Well, I cannot say that, because I have
the majority of theologians against me. They
think otherwise.’ Would a merciful lawgiver
lay down a law in such a way? Thou shalt
not steal’ required no exposition. They did not
want anyone to explain it; their consciences told
them it was right. The words, ‘They twain shall
be one flesh,’ were a very strong and emphatic
wav of describing the union between man and
wife. But it was a metaphorical expression, and
was never intended to be taken literally. For what
consequences would follow from taking it as a
’statement of actual facts ? A man married a
woman who had a sister. That sister, it is said,
became his sister. All her sisters must in the same
way have become his sisters. But his wife was
one of his sisters, and, therefore, his wife was his
own sister (Much laughter). He had said nothing
1 which deserved a laugh, he had only pointed out
the consequences of treating what was a metn-
?horical statement as a statement of an actual
act. He would give another Instance less absurd.
John married M try, who had got a sister Martha.
Martha became his sister. But his sisters were his
brother’s sisters. Ho had got a brother William,
and AVilliam, therefore, could not marry Martha
because she was his sister- Was it to bo supposed
that tho law was laid down in such a way ?”
The Highland settlers of the Clutha district,
N Z., resolved, recently, to start a Gaelic society.
A meeting accordingly took plac.*, when resolu-
tions to that effect were passed and officers elected,
Amonsr other appointments mane was that of a
bard. The choice of those present fell on an indi-
vidual who was then absent. When next meeting
took place tho bard showed up, and was informed
of the honour conferred on him. On asking for
information as to his duties, ho was told that he
would be expected to compose original poetry in
ttie Gaelic language and recite his compositions to
the society. Thereupon the bard got up and said
in the languagoof his fore fathers: ‘Gentlemen,
I am greatly obliged to you for the high honour
you have this day conferred on me. As it hap-
pens, however, I am uo poet—I do not know the
difference between verse and prose, and I cannot
compose verses for the society. But if it’s all the
same to you, there is one thing 1 can do for this
association. As you are aware, lam occasionally
employed as a grave-digger, and hitherto I believe
I have given every satisfaction in that capacity.
Now, as I cannot compose poetry for this society,
I am willing to bury you all for nothing!
An Invercargill
(N.Z.) clergyman recently
introduced a novelty into
his pulpit. During the
sermon he produced a
human skull, and, holding
it up before the audience,
addressed it in a pathetic
and eloquent manner.
The moving appeal
seemed to produce a
visible effect on the skull,
which grinned derisively
at the whole affair, but
the audience remained
dry-eyed and obdurate;
and when the result of
the collection was audited
afterwards, it was found
deficient to the extent of
several “ threepences.”
Not very long ago,
in Sydney, a certain man
(a poor man, of course)
suddenly took ill about 10
p.m.; and as he grew no
better very fast the priest
of the parish was called
in to give him the ortho-
dox "send-off” to the
“ Golden Shoah.” The
good father came panting
up the ricketty stairs
about 11.30, and, turning
on the dying man like a
bear with a sore head, he
snorted out: “How is it
you couldn’t send for me
uelore 9?” The poor
wretch faintly whispered
the absurd reason, “Be-
cause I wasn’t ill, your
reverence.” “ That’s no-
thing to do with it,”
roared the other; “priests
have to toil and slave all
day, and they want their
rest the same as other
men—now just remember
that, now.” But the
hardened sinner didn’t re-
member it very loug, for
he died that night. As it
appears that the faithful
cau now only die at cer-
tain hours, we suggest
that each parish priest
should issue a sort of
death-bed time-table such
as this:—“ Sydney pas-
sengers for Paradise, Pur-
gatory, uud stations along
the route, can be booked
from fo a.m. till 5 p.m.
(trains running every
hour). At 5 the offices
wiU close for tea tin 7,
when hall-hour trains
will run till 0 only. A
special funeral train may
be had at any hour on ap-
plication to tho Commis-
sioner, and payment of
£30 in advance.”
The other day, at
Melbourne, William Red-
mond had occasion to
prosecute a man who had
stoleutrom him to the ex-
tent of £10 or so; and.
just after the hearing of
i he case at the City Police
Court, a cablegram an-
nouncing his election for
Wexford was handed to
him. The overjoyed agi-
tator looked around. At
mat moment there should
have been at his elbow
a thousand sympathetic
Nationalists—an enthusi-
astic crowd of the reddest
of Red Republicans. But
there were not. When a
man finds himself elected
for Wexford, or any-
where else, he must drink
—he must speak—he must
share his triumph with
somebody. Ho couldn’t
usk tho adjacent blue-
bottles, arrayed in Saxon
uniforms, to come along
with him and kick up
their heels. So he and an
officer in plain clothes—a
Milesian detective—went
across to the Rainbow (or
somewhere else), and
drank further confusion
to the Irish landlords and
all enemies of Demo-
cracy.
The cabled and other accounts of the trial,
in Hungary, of Jews accused of having murdered
a Christian girl, and used her blood to mix with
the Passover bread, reads like a companion story
to “ Hugh of Lincoln ”
“ She’s led him in through ae dark door,
And sae has she thro’ nine;
She’s laid him on a dressing-table,
And stickit him like a swine.
And first came out the thick, thick blood.
And syne came out the thin;
And syne came out the bonny heart’s blood,
There was nae mair within,” &c. &c.
Prlnces-street, Dunedin, opposite the Bank
of N.Z., is as busy and as full of traffic as are the
leading thoroughfares of the largest Australian
cities. Yet, little more than twenty years ago A
heavily-laden bullock waggon was passing along
the street at this very point, when the bullocks
disappeared in the mud, and the waggon sank
almost out of sight. By great exertion, with the
aid ot ropes and a hundred willing hands, the
bullocks were rescued from the mire and the goods
lauded from the waggon ; but the vehicle itself
sank deeper than ever, and no appliances at that
time available could raise it from its position, ft
lies there to this day beneath the rolling tide ot
traffic and pleasure, the present street having been
formed ana metalled above the sunken wreck.
Printed and Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. (Limited), 24 Pitt-st„ Sydney, N.S.W.
Blasted Hopes.
He played around in child-like glee,
A lovely, laughing boy:
He prattled at his mammy’s knee,
A parent’s joy.
Their hopes were centred in the lad—
His soul with theirs was twined:
Their love tho simple cottage had
With love enshrined.
No canker’d thought o’er dared intrude,
No cloud obscured their sun;
It seemed as though they Peace had wooed,
Had wooed and won.
When years had passed their cottage o’er
AVith touch so soft and mild,
Their pray'rs, the pray’rs they breathed of yore
" God bios* our child.
Ah, now tho good old people sleep
In sleep so grimly sound:
Their heads the loathsome blindworms keep
Their orgies round!
They died—a broken, blasted pair—
With curses tin their lips;
Those hopes had proved as frail and fair
As paper ships.
At one fell blow their souls wore dashed
Into eternity:
Their boy was made—the news was Hashed—
A C.M.G.!!!
Missionary : “ I’m off to the New Hebrides to labour in the Looard’s Vineyard.”
Charity: “The Lord’s Cocoa-nut Plantation, you mean. But don’t yon think yon might put in some work in the
Devil’s whisky-mill, just here?”
