

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 1. —No. 27. —New Series
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1883 r
Priee—6*L
THE CIRCULATION OF M THE BULLETIN"
IS NOW MORE THAN DOUBLE THAT OF
ANY OTHER WEEKLY NEWSPAPER IN
N.S. W.-THAT OF ONE VERY OLD ESTAB-
LISHED PAPER , WHICH EXCEEDS “ THE
BULLETINS" BY ABOUT ONE-FIFTH,
ALONE EXCEPTED. THE CIRCULATION
OF “THE BULLETIN" IS THE SECOND
GREATEST AMONG THE WEEKLIES OF
AUSTRALASIA.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1883.
Muddle.
The initiation of the debate on the second
reading of the new Land Bill, by Mr. Par-
nell, was a poor performance. The Minister
for Lands showed himself unequal to his
task and to his opportunities. In lieu of the
spirited exposition of principles and explicit
demonstration of the adequacy of the new
measure to correct what is mischievous and
to supply what is desirable, Mr. Fabnell
occupied hours in a diffuse and miscellaneous
commentary or essay. To a considerable
extent, he appeared more concerned to
inform the Assembly that he does not believe
in the principles of the measure he offered
them, than in demonstrating the utility of
the Bill. Part of his utterances might be
paraphrased without unfairness by such a
sentence as “ The essential principle of the
Bill is free selection before survey, a princi-
ple which I consider bad, but which I invite
you to endorse.” And again Mr. Fabnell
expressed himself as opposed to the price to
be charged in the Bill for lands selected.
There would have been sufficient grounds
for the hon. gentleman crossing the House
and leading the opposition against the Bill
of which he was in charge. When Mr.
Fabnell was not announcing his dissent
from the principles of his Bill, he wasengaged
a good deal in explaining either that he was
going to patch it in one part as defective, or
to give up other parts as inessential or
susceptible of improvement. Thus, he said
that arrangements might be made to classify
lands—for which there is no provision in the
Bill; and that surveys might be expedited
and cheapened by a new system—for which
likewise there is no provision in the Bill.
And again he explained that in the Central
Division the right to secure a conditional
lease thall be allowed, which is not in the
Bill. The Minister further intimated that he
bad no special preferences in the matter
of the rents which shall be chargeable for
pastoral leases in the Western division; and
observe that the S.M. Herald, in a lead-
ing article, ascribes to him an expression of
readiness to accept the resumption of one-
fourth of the runs in the Western division
adequate for the purpose of conditional
eases, in fieu of one-half, as drafted in the
iB- In short, the Minister for Lands em-
ployed his speech to so hedge himself with
Isclaimers and qualifications, and apologies
—not to lay, stress upon the almost servile
c °niplinients to the most inveterate oppo-
nent of the measure, Sir John Robertson—
nt be succeeded in making nothing so clear
that, if the measure be a good one and
r editable to its constructors, none of the
belongs him, and that there is
rcfi ly a principle or an arrangement in
e measure which to him appears so
that he would not without dis-
*t*re submit to the excission or reversal
nt principle or arrangement
Bt^’ 3 n °bsurprising that, under the circum-
to on* 68 ’ S * F *^ OHN Robertson was indisposed
p -i-e the discussion at once. He had
•nurT come prepared to discuss the Gov-
nt Bill as presented to Parliament.
Mr. Parnell had coolly turned the motion
for the second reading into an opportunity
for introducing an amended Bill, and for
disclaiming all sympathy with leading prin-
ciples and all connection with respect to
leading details of the measure he actually
so introduced. Sir John must have felt
himself in a quandary. Had he been a free-
lance, and untrammelled by previous bonds
of oft-declared principles, he might have
involved Mr. Farnell in almost inextricable
embarrassment by a demonstrative and ef-
fusive declaration of entire concurrence with
that gentleman’s preferences, objections,
and scruples, and by enthusiastically invit-
ing that too discriminative Minister to cross
the floor of the House and join in an endea-
vour to make the Bill fit in with his ideal.
But Sir John appeared paralysed. His
criticism fitted nothing so well as Mr. Far-
nkll’s exposition. The one seemed as
though especially adapted to the other.
Mr. Fabnell was weakly confident; Sir
John Robertson was forcibly feeble. If the
whole purpose of Parliamentary discussion
were raillery, and he were the ablest states-
man who proved himself the aptest at chaff,
Sir John assuredly showed to advantage
beside Mr. Farnell. He roasted that
uncertain Minister with considerable viva-
city and success, and not without reason
charged him with dragging down his colours
before a shot was fired, and inviting all
assailants to do what they liked. But when
Sir John had done funning, and addressed
himself to serious business, his happy vein
failed him. He was still lively and satirical,
but he seemed not to know precisely what
he objected to—except of course that any-
body should have the audacity to pretend
that his system of land legislation was capa-
ble of improvement. He found the proposed
Bill very bad every way. He made the
mistake of declaring it bad in too many
ways. He proved first that the Bill is not revo-
lutionary-then that it is. He showed that
nobody could advantageously select under
the proposed Act —then that the terms to
selectors are ridiculously easy. He declared
successively that nobody would select, that
every acre in the Central district would be
immediately selected, that the squatter
would lose half his run, that nothing would
be easier than for the squatter to acquire
that half by dummying, that the introduc-
tion of homestead lessees in the Western dis-
trict would be ruin to the squatter, that
homestead lessees would be few, that the
squatter could defy them—in fact, Sir John
managed to prove so many contraries that a
perusal of his speech induces much more
faith in his ingenuity than in the genuine-
ness of his convictions or the clearness of
his perceptions.
♦ * *
In order that there may be no mis-
apprehension, and no lingering idea that
—the jumble of mutually destructive
assertions being so extraordinary—we are
writing without warrant, we quote the pas-
sages which we have in view. Sir John
Robertson said :
We had been told by the Ministry during their
tour of the colony that there was to be a revolution
in the land legislation of the colony, but he con-
fessed he had not been able to see much revolution.
He should be able to show that the Bill was the
same in many things as the present law, and that
the Bill could be found word for word In former
measures proposed. It was too bad to take his
words after running him down; and for this
Ministry to work them into their wretched retro-
grade measure.,
Then, in the next breath:—
He by no means desired to deny or to hide that
there were great changes in the propositions of
the present Bill as compared with the present law,
and he would endeavour to show them.
And shortly after we have him stating,
with regard to this “ non-revolutionary ”
measure:—
Whatever became of this Bill, confidence in the
honour and integrity of the country had gone
when the Government proposed to repudiate all
those engagements.
And again
So surely as they went on with this legislation,
so surely would people leave our North-western
territory for Queensland, South Australia, and
Western Australia, where it was good land, with
the only disadvantagej of difficulty of getting to
market.
Here we have the impossibility of selecting
lamented:—
He was appealing in the Interests of the working
classes who were not heard in this matter, and
whom it was proposed by this audacious measure
to debar from having anything to do with the
land.
And here the immensity of the inducements
to select is deplored:—
Those who talked about the law as it stood now
forgot that no man could get land without paying
£1 per acre; but this bill would give it to him on
ridiculously easy terms.
The pastoral tenant is to be ruined according
to this passage
The squatters did not happen to have a large
number of votes. They had very few votes in the
country, but they had the right to demand justice.
To enter into an engagement with them for a
period of lease, to encourage them to improve the
useless lands and expend money upon them and
make them valuable, and then turn round and
divide it into halves, was repudiation. It meant
that you would take half their security away from
them, and you would make worthless half the im-
provements.
Yet, according to these, he is to have it all
his own way:—
He would ask whether there were any men in
creation who would take up these 2560-acre blocks
to whom a ring fence would be of such value as it
would be to a pastoral holder.
And as to the Western division
Feeling secure upon one half of his run, the
squatter would fire his shots at the man who dared
to come on the resumed portion. There could be
no question about that.
• • *
We,might multiply quotations, all equally
contradictory, but it is scarcely worthwhile.
Sir John concentrated his efforts in orre
splendid climax when he declared that the
Government, who were guilty of the most
scandalous repudiation in proposing to re-
sume half the areas under pastoral lease, were
likewise chargeable with disgraceful con-
duct because they didn’t take all the leases—
in other words, because they proposed to
give the pastoral lessee what he does not now
possess, a lease of half his run, including
protection against free selection on that
half. The Government scheme would ruin
the squatter by permitting selection to con-
tinue on half his run at double the present
rate, and would be a betrayal of the people
at large by reserving to the squatter half
the area now open to selection. Thus every-
body would be ruined and nobody bene-
fited. Here we have the claim:—
If the hoo. gentleman before him were a
squatter, would he not prefer to have a selector
taking a nibble out of his run, to having a
repudiating Government taking half of it ? (Hear,
hear.) Those in the pastoral interest were more
afraid of this repudiating Government than of
the selector.
From which the only possible inference
seems to be that as the selector is not to be
feared, that is to say, is not likely to select,
the Government is going to eat the resumed
half rather than let the squatter enjoy it.
If this be not it, we confess we are at a loss
to conceive what fantasy affected the old gen-
tleman’s noddle. If the selectors didn’t snap
up the land, the pastoral tenant would still
have the use of it. The Government Bill
contains no provision for collecting the
resumed halves of runs and towing them out
to sea. But the most remarkable feature of
this extraordinary deliverance of the veteran
i legislator was the almost agonized and
THE HON. GEORGE COPPIN, M.L.C., THE VETERAN ACTOR.


XX XX xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx x x
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXX
VISITORS IN SIDNEY,
before you go home,
PAY a VISIT to HORDERN’S,
HORDERN’S EMPORIUM, iu Pitt-st.
No. 211.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
IX
XX
XX
XX
XI
XX
XX
XI
XX
II
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Country orders always get good
attention.
N
0 TIME SO GOOD AS NOW
to get your Dresses
made for CHRISTMAS.
We have splendid styles.
Please to leave us your orders this week
for SUMMER DRESSES.
O
HORDERN BROTHERS,
211, Pitt-street.
SUMMER
UR ZEPHYR SUMMER DRESS
MATERIALS are really worth
a visit.
XX
XX
XX
XX
IX
XX
IX
XI
II
XX
XX
g
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
WE have to-day opened several XX
Cases of the Most Choice XX
XX FRUITS in SPRAYS and WREATHS, XX
XX not procurable at any other shop in XX
XX Sydney, being imported direct by us. Xx
XX This shipment almost excels Nature. XX
Xl They comprise Apricots, Strawberries, XX
XX Currants, Pears, Cherries, Apples, XX
XX Peaches, Walnuts, Plums, &c. If you XX
XX require any, you should come i t once, XX
IX as these goods are in great demand. XX
XX HORD -RN BROTHERS, 211, Pitt-st. XX
XX TTORDKRN’S well-known Establish- XX
XX ment in Pitt-street XX
XX is thoroughly well-known to be XX
XX THE SHOP XX
XX for every kind of XX
XX FIRST-CLASS FASHIONABLE GOODS. XX
XX Whilst we keep XX
XX the very best qualities that we can ob- XX
Many of them are shown to-day
in our Windows, 311, Pitt-street.
Come Into Pitt-street, and see them.
HORDERN’S, in Pitt-street.
tain for cash down
in Paris and London,
Whilst we keep these articles of
the Pink of Fashion,
we charge
you remarkably moderate prices.
“Seeing is believing.’ 1
J ust notice
our Windows tor a verification of
these facts.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
211, PITT-STREET.
XX
XX
II
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
RESIDENTS in the Country cannot XX
do better than send do wu to us for XX
some of our XX
PATTERNS OF SUMMER DRESSES. X3£
We are able to sell XX
very reasonably, XX
as we have SPECIAL FACILITIES. XX
This you may see
on
Inspection of our patterns.
Self-measurements for
Ladies' Dresses
and for
Gentlemen’s Suits
sent free anywhere by
HORDERN BROTHERS,
211, Pitt-street.
XX
XX
XX
XX
A.A.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
X XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXX XX
X XXXXXXXXXXXXXXIXXXXXXXXX XX
T
10 THE ELECTORS OF MACQUARIE WARD
Gentlemen,— l notice that your respected Aider-
man, Mr. Robert Butcher, M.P., intends to retire
from the representation of your Ward. I have
great pleasure, therefore, in announcing to you
that I shall be a candidate for this vacancy at the
next Aldermanic Election.
Your obedient Servant,
SYDNEY BURDEKIN.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 6th November, 1883.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies,—tenders are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance w hen the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
W ’The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received a t
this office.
Erection of Gaol, Bathurst.
Bridge over German Creek, on
Coast-Road, Richmond River.
Construction of Tramway,
Waverley to Bondi.
Bridge at Two-mile, Warram-
bool, road Walgett to Eury
Bury.
Alterations, &c„ Albury Gaol.
Additions, &c., Telegraph Office,
Deniilquln.
Bridge over Mulgrandra Creek,
Road Cowra to Forbes.
Erection of Station Buildings,
60., at Cook’s River, lllawarra
Railway.
Erection of Station Buildings,
60., Kogarah, lllawarra Rail-
way.
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Nimitybelle.
Bridge at Old Mill, road Liver-
pool to Campbelltown.
Construction of Foundations
and Piers for a Foot Bridge
at Orange Station, G. W. Rail-
way. a
Cast-iron Pipes, North Shore
Water Supply.
Erection of Quarters, State
Nursery, Campbelltown.
Additional Rooms, Hospital for
the Insane, Parramatta.
Erection of Temporary Mount-
ing-room, New Lands Office,
Sydney.
Construction and Fitting two
Towline Winches for Steam
Barges Neptune and Juno.
20th November,
at 11 o’clock.
Completion of Works at Trial
Bay Prison.
Bridge over Castlereagh River
at Gilgrandra.
Construction of Gallery, Court-
house, Forbes.
Additions, &c., Post and Tele-
graph Office, Blayney.
Annual Contracts, Colonial
Architect’s Department, 1884.
Extension of Tramway to
Leichhardt.
Supply of Rolling Stock, Rail-
way Department.
27th November
at 11 o’clock.
-— ——
18th December,
at H o*clock-
New Dock, Cockatoo Island,
Contract No. 2.
Manufacture and Supply of I
150,000 Tons of Steel Ralls.
Bth January.
1884,
atll oyloo*.
STf
at 11
F. A. WRl<* h1 ’-
Ever since we read the French manifesto to the
Tonquinese, we find that the future possesses no
further attraction for us. We started life with a
fair average of laughter, but this manifesto has
taken all the mirth out of our system at one go,
and we can never smile more. It ends thus:—
“ Have confidence in us. France shall never for-
sake you, and you shall very soon seen Tonquin
recover its former prosperity.” Oh! the delicate
irony of that “ France shall never forsake you!” It
reminds us of that fat German wife of one of our
earliest Georges, who, when her carriage was
mobbed by a London crowd, shoved her mutton
head as far out as she could without overbalancing
herself, and said “Yy, we coom vor all your
goots.” “Yes, d — you! and for our chattels,
too,” bawled a red-headed fellow in the crowd—a
remark whese appropriateness has extended
almost to our own times.
The Bates oe Subsohj p rnn> u> iuk Bulletin
are—For one year, 345.: half-year, 13s. 6d,;
quarter, 6s. 6d. —In advance.
The Advertising Bates are 6s. per inch;
special positions In the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 por cent.: For 36 consecutive insertions,
15 per cent.: For 53 consecutive insertions, 36 per
cent. No allowance can bo made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be madepayable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps ef any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above Is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
(&- PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6fl. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Doparttnent,
MA R 2 T # T fit El 5 T .
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
OO TO
O. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET,
where you can obtain for
A GLASS OP WHISKY, BRANDY, POUT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
otner establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open In
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler.
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
Is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome of all Beverages.
0. w. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNBLIBH WHISKY.
6s. per bottle.
VBRDBILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
3s. per bottle.
HBNNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
Os. 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street, Sydney.
“ Buohu-faiba.” Quick complete cure,
all annoying: Kidney, Bladder and Urinary Diseases.
Druggist*. Moses, Moss & Co., General Agent*.
decidedly prevailing sympathy for the
monetary institutions, money-lenders, and
estate-makers and mongers, whioh ran
through the speech. “You’ll drive away
capital. You will commit repudiation.”
Then: “You’ll drive away labour. The
people will shift to Queensland, Western Aus-
tralia,” Ac. &o. This seems mere frenzy. At
least, the Bill wouldn’t drive away the land.
The soil won’t pack up and move over into
Queensland. And unless somebody settles
down on the soil, nobody else can be displaced.
If those who deselect be gen nine settlers, the
country can take its luck with the fugitive
capital. If its soil and a productive body of
settlers be left to it, it won’t want “ capital”
long. And if these “ settlers” be dummies,
certainly “capital” will not tje seriously
disturbed, since dummies are the tools of
capital. We fear Sir John Robertson has
survived his ability, that he should thus
have taken to talking nonsense in his old age.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Hill or Cure?
A correspondent asks a larger question than he
thinks—“ Why are not detectives permitted to
visit billiard-rooms, where, nightly, young men
spend their time and money, and so quietly warn
them that they cannot do so and live honestly ?’’
The obvious reply Is that they are not paid to do
so ; and the fresh question Is why should they use
their knowledge of the world to prevent ruin
instead of having It at the service of the State to
ferret out actual crime? The plain English of It
is, that, In all modern legislation and jurisprudence,
our wise men have acted the part of a feeble
mother over an unruly household. From morning
to night It Is smack, smack. There is no
attempt at finality. The jam-pot was pillaged
yesterday, and there was a smack—something
“ not exceeding” the weight of a feather.
The same little guilty countenance is raspberrled
over to-day, and there is another frenzied smack
“not exceeding” the weight of two feathers.
And the camel has not yet been found whose back
broke over the last. In a thousand hoary statutes,
designed to “ keep the wretch in order,” you find
not one whose purpose Is to prevent the wretch
getting out of order. All the machinery of the
law, from Judge Coleridge’s summing up to
Marwood’s dropping down, la designed to catch
rogues already formed ; and no bitterer thing
need be said of the administration of justice
than that all the promotions, fortunes, and suc-
cesses ot lt« officers depend on their success In
thwarting It. The Judge has now a huge salary,
a retiring pension, a learned and much-rever-
enced wig, and a fine stock of wise saws
when ho dons the black cap. He falls not
of his opportunity to point out to the
unfortunate wretch before him the direful con-
sequences of crime, and to rule (from the Bench)
that, as there is no provision for it In this world,
it will be a fair thing for the Lord to have mercy
on hi n in the next. And, possibly, he first learns
this lesson on the conduct of life on the eve
of quitting It. But the Judge perhaps got up there
on a reputation of getting scoundrels off, or
for some deep engineering in getting politi-
cal scoundrels “in.” His whole professional life
has depended on fomenting disputes or further
entangling good fee-bearing entanglements. He
has had no time and no Incentive to discourage
Immorality or prevent profitable roguery. The
same right away down the staff. The detective,
the policeman, and the attorney pursue their blow-
fly career. The detective sees the life of the young
man our correspondent refers to, but does not
“quietly warn” him: he quietly watches him. If
he warned him, what becomes of his “time-book ?”
What will his chief say If, instead of “ I nabbed
him nicely,” it’s got to be “I took him aside and
persuaded him out of it ?” Where, then, are his
marks for “vigilance,” “perspicacity,” “astute-
ness,” &c. ? Some day we may wake up to the fact
that it would be as cheap in the long run to reward
the vigilance that prevents as that which aids in
the detection of crime, and that a system may be
devised to keep out of our costly courts the thou-
sands of paltry squabbles that might be settled
outside. If that were done, hundreds of policemen,
thousands of court officials, and tens of thousands
of short-sentence men who now fatten on the
crime traffic—for it’s nothing else; a species of
liquor traffic—would be earning their bread in the
markets and the workshops, and doing some good
in the world. Wo say, in our conception and
administration of the law, we may some day wake
up to a sense of this. But at present we are dead
asleep concerning it—snoring, in fact.
Prorogued.
Tbth Victorian Parliament was prorogued on the
3rd inst., and the Council Chamber was ablaze with
rank and beauty, with military uniforms, and
Derby toilettes, as the pro-roguers and pro-rogues
took leave of the roof. At His Excellency’s com-
mand, a long line of legislatorial figures filed into
the Chamber, and the Mace was conspicuous as a
sign of how men cling to a symbol, and the
Speaker was conspicuous as a sign of how men
climb to affluence, and a leading Minister was con.
splouous as a sign of how men gull a gullible
multitude; and all down the line, to the fldgotty
Gaunson and the watery M'Coll, the thirst for
something to drink, and the hunger for something
to eat, out of the scant produce of the sweat and
sufferings of labour, were, in the faces that turned
their eyes up, with hardly a single intellectual trait
In the whole company, strikingly conspicuous.
Titian painted senators, but tha senators of
Florence had, at all events, externally some-
thing noble in gait and demeanour. But
as these men ambled and shambled, whisked
and whispered, winked and watched, rubbed
their noses and rasped their chins, as His
Excellency coughed and began to read at them,
you oould not find a face with a higher caste than
a master tailor’s, or with an expression betokening
more than a green-grocer’s in the Eastern Market.
In reality, we do not care much for masculine
beauty. A hirsute Gracchus *s more than a
“ band-box ” Lmew. A bearish Cromwell Is
more than a dllletante Chesterfield. But when
you reflect that, under the visages below you,
there Is only a record of little tricky winnings, in
little tricky ways, in a little semi-educated com-
munity, you feel that only a degenerate Titian
would touch their outsides, and only an idle
student of human nature would spend time
analysing their insides. Of course, His Excel-
lency called them “ splendid fellows.” He
gets about £lO,OOO a year for doing that. Of
course, they bowed profoundly to the guber-
natorial behests. They get from £lOOO to £3OO
a year for doing that. And, of course, the
ladies, in their Derby toilettes, looked at it all
as a theatrical show, just as they look at one of
Emelie Melville’s mounts, and spread their fans
and smiled. And, of course, the gawky
who were in town for the Cup week, looked on
just as they would do at a gathering of the Salva-
tion Army or a prisoner’s exercise in the Melbourne
Gaol, without thinking a bit what it meant. And
the members of the Victorian Parliament, after
getting the blessing of Divine Providence pro-
nounced upon them by His Excellency, went forth,
still rasping their chins and rubbing their noses,
watching and winking, whispering and whisking,
and shambling and ambling—each one sure that
though Titian would not touch him outside, or a
philosopher touch him inside, his thirst for some-
thing to drink, and his hunger for something to
eat, will, throughout his long round of holidays,
be assuaged by the sweat and sufferings of Labour.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“X.Y.” : Must have been overlooked.
What were the questions? “Leon T.,” &c.:
The Bulletin isn’t inclined either to countenance
your ineffable impudence or gratify your spite —
“C.M.C.”: We have never seen it stated that the
Increase from the cause indicated was such as to
materially affect the statistics as a whole
“Mark”: You’d better go up South, whore, in ad-
dition to conferring J.P.-ships on three uncertlfi-
cated insolvents in one act, they give to men who
can’t either read or write the power of judging
their fellows, and put on to the bench persons who
stand bound over to appear on criminal charges
when called on. If you vote for the Government
candidate, you prove yourself fit to dispense law;
if you don't, then your milkman, who plumps for
the Minister, will be shoved on to the “biuch,” and
will wait his chance of “ rubbing it in” to you
“Enquirer” : STou had better ask her yourself
“Number Two”; Mrs. Hampson left for Auck-
land by the mail-boat. It is “ Mrs. Doctor Potts ”
who is now in Sydney. “ Mrs. Doctor Potts,” or
“Doctor Mrs. Potts," appears to be following in the
wake of Mrs. Hampson, than whom she is at least
twice as funny “ Hanover Medal ”: This is the
quotation (it is from “Hereticsand Heresies”) :
“ Imagine a vine that grows at one end and decavs
at the other: the end that grows is heresy : the
end that rots is orthodoxy. The dead are ortho-
dox, and your cemetery is the most perfect type
of a well-regulated church No thought, no pro-
gress, no heresy there. Slowly and silently, side
by side, the satisfied members peacefully decay.
There is only this difference—the dead do not per-
secute” “ Hallelujah ” : Received “ C.J.R.”
(Rockwood) : Dan Briggs, when last we heard of
him, was in Rockhampton. We don’t think he’s
dead. We hope he isn’t. If he’s still alive, he of
course reads The Bulletin, and so will see this,
and again communicate with you “Thetid”:
Now, what was it all about ? We have forgotten.
You should have sent name and address in the
first instance “Punter”: Don’t you see it’s all
a joke? “An Elder,” on behalf of the Anous
people, is poking fun at the Melbourne D.T., the
organ of tne Dissenting clerics— “Sans Changer ”:
If you really wrote those lines yourself, old fellow,
you are a genius. Please call—“M.J.K.”: (1) We
don’t wish to print the list. (3) The judge was Sir
William Manning, now fortunately out of the
colony. (3) We print the quotation :
“ Without one spark of intellectual fire,
Be all the sons as senseless as the sire;
If one with wit the parent brood disgrace,
Believe him bastard of a brighter race.”
....“Calma” : Capitally written. But you give
undue prominence to a rather small matter, of a
class which, unfortunately, seems typical of the
Civil Service all over the Australian colonies—
“J.W.”: We have already said that Jem Mace
never fought Lord Charles Beresford—luckily
for his lordship “ Chuquisaca ”: Are they all
original? If they were, we could allow a good
deal .. “Marco”: You needn’t trouble. Kendall
needs no fluted column to grace his last resting-
place. It’s the men who are in danger of being
forgotten who need 100-gulnea stones with lies
graven on them....“ Bungaree”: We really don’t
know whether the Bungaree Junction Art Union
advertisers have yet raffled their estate. [Can
anyone inform us?—Ed.B.]. We don’t profess to
know the intention of advertisers, whom we have
to accept on their reputations....“ W.H.H.”: Next
week....“Softun”: Not good enough to print, or
payfor... “D.H”: Very well. Thanks—“ J.R. ’:
Much obliged “Snap”: (1) We believe that the
sweeps you name ai’e genuine. (3) We have been
invited to attend the drawings of two of them.
We do not undertake to return rejected
communications. Writers should keep copies.
The Hon. Geo. Coppin, M.L.C.
Thb well-known face which is portrayed in
our front page to-day is that of a man who
has “in his time played many parts,” in
more than the histrionic sense. Mr. George
Coppin is the son of a clergyman of Norwich,
ana was educated for the medical profes-
sion; but becoming stage-struck at the im-
pressionable age or seventeen, donned the
sock and buskin, and thereby marked out a
career which has had many singular episodes.
After playing in England for several years,
Mr. Coppin, with charactei istic restless en-
terprise, launched out for a new world, and
in 184> arrived in Sydney. Two years later
he opened a theatre—the Queen's—in Mel-
bourne. Thence he found ids way to Ade
laide, and thus early in his career sought
the ideal solace of the poor player—keep-
ing a public house. He speculated also
in mines, and, “busting,” re-trod the
boards, opening a theatre at Geelong, then
a city rivalling Melbourne and contending
for the right to be tiie capital of Victoria.
Here M \ Coppin prospered, and took ad-
vantage of his success to pay all his old
creditors, and take a trip to the old country.
Returning, he built the Olympic Theatre in
Melbourne, and, in 1859, speculating with his
usual indomitable enterprise, he found him-
self ruined afresh. He then tried to change
uis luck by altering his field of operations,
and ran a two years’ professional tour in
America. Once more returning, he joined
in the management of the Melbourne Royal,
and again made a pile. In 1858 Mr. Coppin
turned his attention towards politics, and
since that time has been pretty constantly a
member of either the Upper or Lower
Chamber of the Victorian Parliment, filling
the representative positions with dignity
and usefulness.
To Clara.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Clara mine, thine eye is blue,
And thy smile is bright and thy heart is true;
How happy I thought to have been with you
For my bride.
I met another girl last night.
With a bluer eye and a smile more bright,
And a heart as sincere as your own is, quite—
You must “ slide.”
Clara mine, in hours gone by—
When wo mingled our breath in a love-born sigh—
E’en to Realms of Bliss I was lifted nigh—
So I thought.
Last night I pressed another waist
Par plumper than thine, and less tightly laced,
And it yielded with pleasure at being embraced—
She’s my sort.
Now, farewell, for aye, mine own I
To thy words of love, with their silvery tone—
To the days when I dreamed of thee, alone —
They are fled.
I’ve fastened on to a “ better thing ”
For my new girl’s voice has a golden ring.
And a fortune to me will this fairy bring
When we wed.


Fatality among pressmen lately. Mr.
Nixon, editor of Northern Arqus, shot himself
In Brisbane. William Lees, of Riverine Grazier,
died in a railway carriage between Hay and Al-
bury. A. K. Colquhoun, of the Northern
Miner, poisoned himself at Charters Towers.
Mr. Charles Hall celebrated the re-opening
of his Academy, on the 7th, by a complimentary
ball to a number of friends, about 100. The room
has recently undergone complete renovation, and
is bright and clean, lit with thre sunlights and
well ventilated A new floor, 60 x3O ft., is laid,
and the dancers were pleased with it. Mrs C
Hall wore a pretty silver blue satin and lace with
graceful effect, and the party dispersed at three
o’clock.
Divorce was granted under extraordinary
circumstances to Mrs. Laverty, of Dunedin, last
month. Two years ago, she was married, but
even on the way from church Mr. Laverty took
the sulks, and refused to sit beside the wife he had
five minutes before sworn to cherish. He cher-
ished her in a novel manner. For three days after
the wedding he cuised and bullied her, refused to
share the nuptial couch, and sent her to sleep with
the hotel servants. He had a habit of presenting
loaded guns at her head, and finally drove Imrout
in midwinter from the door. At midnight, she
tramped, almost nude and bareloot. half-a-milo
through the snow to a neighbour. The con-
sidered it improbable that a young married woman
would indulge in midnight walks through the
snow for nothing or for love, so, nothwiihstand-
ing that “God had joined ” them, he separated Mr
and Mi s. Laverty.
An old pupil of the Bishop-
elect of Sydney writes feel-
ingly “ I sometimes inter-
viewed him privately in his
official capacity. He would
welcome me with a smile, and
there used always to be a len-
der feeling between us when 1
left —but it was all on my side.
He could wallop a boyl He
would welcome the coming,
and speed the parting guest
on those occasions. But we
were very proud of him. Our
great beast used to be that he
could give any clergyman a
start as far as * Give us this
day,’ and then lick him. We
did not tell him this, as ‘ Praise
to the face is open disgrace,’
and we were anxious to avoid
this sort of thing.”
The people who indulged
in ridicule over the story of
the Portland shark have been
effectually shut up by the
appearance of the little
stranger in Melbourne. He in
thirty-one feet long, and his
mouth is four feet wide, and
furthermore, he do smell un-
commonly strong, he do. Ihe
interesting corpse Is on view
at some livery stables in
Swanston -street, and if very
hot weather sets in, a fever
will desolate the city, all
through that shark. He weighs
t early five tons, divested of
liver, which portion of his
anatomy turned the scale at
half a ton (what a substantial
dish served up with bacon;,
but he comes of a small-grown
family, for other sharks of the
same species have bee . caught
off the Irish coast, measuring
thirty-five feet in length.
“Passed in his checks.”
On Wednesday, the 7th inst.,
Mr. H. G. Nicholls went over
to the great majority. For
over twenty-five years he had
been connected with the well-
known firm of David Jones
and Co.—during the last ten
years as a partner. He was
one of the best-natured and
most open-spoken employers
in the city. He took a large
interest in Masonry, but his
energies were chiefly devoted
to his firm. While it must be
held that Mr. Nicholls’ com-
paratively early death was
largely attributable to the un-
due arduousness of his labours
on behalf of his house, his
career should afford to young
men a signal example or what
patience and determination
will do in the way of carving
out a high and affluent posi-
tion.
At the post mortem held
on one Howes, who died re-
cently In the old country, It
that the cause
ot death was teetotal bever-
the organs supposed
to be affected by alcohol were,
according to the medical evi-
dence, “ very healthy,” but
?,,, roni s dyspepsia had been set
up, and the man had died from
8 Pfouharly painful disease, to
iLki abstainers ” are very
uable. Since teetotalism spread
extensively, deaths from the
msease are frequent; the out-
- Bi ' mPtoniB, when the case
eorious, being some-
hr oi 81 . mi , 1 , ar to those shown
y alcoholic drunkards. The
thp D n^ m f pund lying dead on
a tcE°^ r i of h,s bed-room after
eieetotai carouse. That is to
uiiflntabad eaten an enormous
of fresh meat, and
a corresponding
°* effervescing
oM and be died j u8 t like an
Moral: Your guz-
h<*L ab stamer ”is as big a
? 88 your regular “swiper.”
has sixteen “ beautiful and
Oarnivi 3 dS?. daughters,” only one of whom Is
embargo. TdlB . lB what the French would call an
‘“Qarrassment of Ritchie’s.
Ex r ?»?^ aupceB t°n papers, Telegraph and
lately published an account, which
had einn'ln ma ny others, of a young man who
'n-law nn d Pein K'. belaboured by his angry father-
C. r “returning homo. The young man was
office ton > who walked Into the Telegraph
remarking that he desired to make a
T aen hi°* n ’ Btr “ck the editor in the face, and left,
lad his attentions to the . xaminer,
oditor’a „ i ° tde sanctum, cut open the other
, with fa is riding whip. As they
a w indowX,i t s’ he livened matters by breaking
out. it i D and Trent door, when they heaved him
& u Uhp ia^ p^08 . ed he had partaken of the cup,
*°let him a r ate d literary men have been trying
mm have a turn at the “Jug,”
fol lowi?? eB( ?, a /' 8 s * Herald appeared the
hitanta of r ,tu ? 1 7, notice:—“ Wilsou.-The inha-
S'oir aOWn or ? Howe Island desire to express
?°n. John n°° ate r. e ?ret at the death of the late
W e i 0 ° Bowie Wilson, by which sad event they
*rideDtiv mi ru ? Triend and benefactor.” This is
at . Ar mstr!fn o ,?hml eBB^ l ' s >a P“ff of Wilson than a dart
l ke Hi«n•. T he Echo tells us that “ the people
of n d *J?ard with very great regret of the
as Wilson, whom they looked
K V ? r known° f greatest benefactors they had
a flj 1 ’ , Every house on the island almost
N no*. ..a* half-mast high when they beard the
J and °JX There are only two flags on the
“ they belong to Government. Booh J
Several married men who went down to
hSAwIV! 18 idea that Despot was the
better of Mr. White s pair at the weights, ended up
by winning a nice stake over Martini-Henry. It
was this way. On interviewing their “fancy” in
him « a „ d o2 Ck ’ ere smugly prejudiced about
colour ; he reminded them
tn Jio Pjhiir Vh e Pal •’ ° f sreys” who led them
to slaughter on the marriage morning.
Hove not the grey,” cried the much-married
man,
he makes ray heart dull with dejection,
As I think of the day when my troubles began—
So Martini shall be* my selection. fr
What is this? This, darling, is the son-in-
J 18 the victim of a mother-in-law?
i es. dear, ot a rich mother-in-law, who supports
mm. hat is what makes him so tired and rickety.
Partly, my precious. And the other cause? Well,
he has been to dinner at the club. But why does
home in that condition? Because all the
other places are closed. Gracwis I What will his
mother-in-law do ? She will help him up stairs,
and assist in removing his boots. Then the poor
son-in-law will not be clubbed with a soup-ladle,
lectured tor two hours, and scalded half to death
'' rl £h h ding tea ? Oh, no. But if he is so dissi-
pa;? u: / d ' )OH the poor mother-in-law put up
with him ? Be cause he gives her daughter posi-
tion. How position”? Well, before marriage
the mother-in-law was very rich, but was not
known in society. Well? Now she is not quite
so rich, but she isi ' known.” Through the son-in-
' Exactly. But the poorwife—her daughter ?
It is the same with her. Are they satisfied ? Quite
so. But is getting into society so desirable that a
girl will marry such man to accomplish It ? Yes,
my precious. My I out how for the poor girls
who can not man y such men ? They are unfortu-
nate. Have they no consohftion A meagre one.
And that ? They can die aud go to heaven.
“Alberto” contributes “A Boy’s Vision
of Home” to the zephyr-like Queanbeyan Gale.
Says “Alberto”: “I dreamed t’other night I was
with you—methought I could see your dear faces—
“ And I thought,’as I peered more closely,
I noticed a vacant chair;
Ah, yes I there was no denying,
One had gone to our Saviour’s care.
“ All light seemed turned to darkness,
Ail smiles had vanished away,
With crane the table was covered,
And on It the Bible lay.”
Quito so, Alberto. You’re not very strong in the
pome-construction line yet. But you’re all there
In the power of expressing the miserable incon-
sistency of the conventional holy-Joeyism, which
howls and squirms over dear brothers and sisters
gone to everlasting glory. Why should “ all light
seem turned to darkness,” if Heaven be a place
where the departed one will have a good time?
Though Christianity speaks of death being the
SortaT of immortality, of those sown (as its phrase
i) In corruption being raised in incorruption, of
the sure and certain hope that the vile body In the
ooffin shall be made like unto the glorious body of
Its risen Founder—though Christianity thus speaks
by its books and its officials, yet conventional
Christians won’t endorse it, preferring to get up
behind a degrading fetish worship of the under-
taker and his allies, the mourning draper and the
whining Alberto,
I Corbett pere, and Maud Florence and
Corbett, sisters of the thief, take £4OO of the
£lOOO offered by the Melbourne Commerci d Bank
directors for the discovery of the perpetrator of
the late bullion robbery. ’Tis intelligible the father's
aQ s*®ty to remove suspicion off his own shoulders,
and the sisters , to help their father; but to accept
blood-money—faugh 1
Mr. Gladstone Eyre has just executed a
life-size portrait in oils of the late Archbishop
* aughan, and the studio of that promising young
artist has been visited in consequence by large
numbers of (he deceased prelate’s co-religionists,
who have expressed their admiration of the whole
work. In a few days the portrait will be on view
in a George-street window, where it will doubtless
pro\ e the attraction of the week. The painting is
to be disposed of by art union.
Mr. James Bosoawen Duff, Deputy
Registrar-General of N.S.W., is charged with em-
bezzlement to the amount of £6OO or £7OO, and
there has been some comment concerning the fact
that the case against Mr. Duff was heard m the
stipendiary magistrate’s private room at the
Water Police Court. It is quite enough torture
tor a man to stand his final trial in open court, and
nothing is gained to the community by putting
him on show in the dock on the occasion of the
preliminary examination. But there’s no earthly
reason why Mr. Duff, because he happens to bo a
Government official of somewhat high standing,
should enjoy a privilege which is never extended
to persons who are regarded as occupying loss
exalted positions in society.
Mr. and Mrs. Tom Thumb were believers
in Spiritualism, and would sit hours to receive
communications from the spiritland.
The statement that the president and two
members of the Sydney Bicycle Club had resigned
owing to a dispute with the N.S.W, Union is in-
correct. The fact is, the president resigned his
position as delegate to the Union owing to the
majority of the members of the 8.8. C. being
opposed to the proposed December meeting.
Thadeus O’Kane, in the Northern Miner,
puts it delicately thus “The MTI wraith Govern-
ment behaved like traitors and cowards to their
adopted country, and deserve to be cast out into
outer darkness for evermore. Never again will
they be trusted to govern Queensland, which now
‘ spews them out of her mouth ’ as ‘ perilous stuff’
noxious to her existence and fatal to her progress.
Down with M’llwraith and all his syndicate crew I’’
Just as necessity is the mothei of inven-
tion, so is accident of discovery. The fall of an
apple, the twitching of a frog’s legs, and the noc-
turnal gambols of goats led to the discovery of
gravitation, galvanism, and the stimulating pro-
perties of coffee. Years before Captain Cook saw
in the distance the iron-bound coast of New Zea-
land, the natives of that Island were annually
decimated by dysentery. At last an old chief,
sinking under this painful disease, stretched out
his feeble hand, gathered some herbs, and put
them In his mouth, trusting they would end bis
misery. Ho was well in a few days. It’s from
these plants that Monk’s famous New Zealand
herbal remedies are extracted. No ease of dysen-
tery, piles, diarrheas, or English cholera ean with-
stand them.*
Mr. E R. Mauders, of Candelo, died the
other day. The local editor remarked on the
evasion : To him, although occupying* a humble
sphere m life, Shakespeare's words may heap-
plied: Take him for afi in all, he was a man that
we may soon look upon his like again.’” The
editor must have left his Shakespeare on the piano
when he made for the wilds of the South-east.
The Southern editors are “at it” all the
time. The editor of the Booolono Bullock-Bell
only reluctantly engages “In the filthy pastime of
lashing the affinity of a measley swine”— we quote
ipmsima verba). And he further informs
his rival and critic, the editor of the Croajinoo-
lono Damper and Mutton, that “he has yet to be
dragged up ’midst the fumes of a Tasmanian con-
vicr settlement.” O Shade of Potts I
Airs. Dr. Potts” advises the young men
of Sydney to form an Anti-Corset Society, and
wear a white ribbon. An unconflned waist or
don’t pop the question, she says, and it rests’en-
tirely with the young men to convert fair
maidens from the error of their ways. Dr Mrs
Potts adduced a number of reasons why’ girl*
should not wear corsets, but we are not in a posi-
tion to check her statements. As, however it
appears so much responsibility rests upon us, we
intend to commence studying up at once. It is
with a hesitation almost bordering upon awe that
we venture to approacu this delicate subject, but
in cases of this kind, personal feeling must stand
aside. As a duty, we shall join the White Ribbon
Society, and register as an active worker. All we
are waiting for now is, to know how we are to
pick suitable subjects for conversion. We don’t
want to misdirect our efforts.
The Rum speaks of the
“late Hon. Sir J. B. Darvall.’*
Why “late,” unless on the
principle of better late than
never ? And, by the way, it
Darvall dead? We don’t think
so.
Scene—Suburban Sun-
day School. Reverend teacher
in an affectionately persuasive
tone: “Jeruslam that stoned
Prophets. Now, what good
little boy can tell nae, why
the—aw— pee-pei of Jeruslem
oast stones at the prophets.’*
at tlie bottom :
Please Sir—coz they all tipped
Archie for the Derby, an’ th*
beggar ran last.
Monoure Conway, ia his
lecture on “America,” spoke
of the President of the United
States as being “as a matter
ot tact, a monarch in a frock
coat. Can Moncure be under
the impression that other
monarchs go about lu suits of
armour or bathing dresses?
Why even such a barbarian as
*■bo Czar of Russia, is more
often in a frock coat than an
uniform.
At the Police Court,
Tlngha, on Bth inst., Septim us
Warland appeared to answer
the heinous charge of having
solo newspapers on the pre-
vious Sunday, and pleaded not
guilty. Two witnesses were
called by the police to prove
that they had purchased a
paper each, on the day named
from the impious young War-
land, and paid the money,
and that they had been sub-
scribers for some months—
occasionally paying cash, and
at other times settling every
three or four weeks. Foi the
defence. Mr. Bdward Warland
stated that he was local agent
for the T, and 0. Journal,
Bulletin, and Mail, and
that on the arrival of the
coach on Sunday afternoon
he received his bundles of
papers, and laid them out on
the verandah of the post-
office, where the defendant
(his son) supplied such as liked
to come; the rest defendant
carried round and left at the
subscribers’ houses in the
town. Three years ago he had
laid the case before the district
police-inspector, who stated
that the police were not Justi-
fied in interfering with him so
long as he did not “ hawk’’ the
papers for promiscuous sale
through the streets. Mr. War-
land further said that some
months ago he laid the matter
before the Inspector-General,
giving the local Inspector’s
opinion, and asking for his
(Mr. Fosbery’s) as he did not
wish to contravene the law.
The reply, which was handed
to the Bench, was simply to
the effect that on enquiry it
had been found that the police
had not interfered—which, it
must be confessed, seems a
delightfully vague and “offi-
cial ’ answer. Witness con-
tinued to supply as usual, and,
as he did not “hawk,” he was
not conscious of having acted
illegally, 'ihe Bench con-
sidered his offence of Sabbath-
breaking proved, and fined
defendant ss. with 12s. lOd.
costs, in default levy, or two
hours in the stocks. The fine
was paid. We want to see a
boy put into the stocks in
Sydney. The youngster who
was mulct here, the other day,
for selling a certain very
secular publication, hasn’t yet
paid his fine, nor is it Intended
that he should do so. If they’ll
only make a pair of stocks and
Sut him in them for a few
ours, after giving due notice,
£lOOO will be collected for him.
Fong Ah Ling claims that, having been
born at Hong Kong, he is an Englishman, and so
not Included within the U.B. Restriction Act. His
advocate (Van Dusen) argues that the place |of
birth determines nationality. If Van Dusen be
correct, an Englishman born at Shanghai is a
Chinaman.
M’Elhone in italics is a oommaoal idea.
There are some who wouldn’t mind seeing him
In vinculo, or otherwise compelled to put a full
stop to his guerilla-like proceedings which to others
are such hyphun. He sfullof crotchets, yet-daah
it! -not quite enough ass to risk committal to the
custody of the Sergeant-
How many people does it take to make a
full-sized consternation ? On the morning of the
Derby day In Victoria the Golden Crown had left'
the Sandrldge Pier, and, as she was backing out,
she collided with a lighter, and a paddle-box ana
some other things went smash. There were only
eight persons on board, but we are informed, on
the authority of that Melbourne paner which
never prints a word without the supervision of the
part-proprietor, that “ even amongst that limited
number the consternation was considerable.” Is
consternation a sensation that depends on numbers
for development ? Is It not rather as complete In
a single individual as In a community ? Is it not
of the nature of pain—and was not pain “ as con-
siderable ” to Francis Burns when he was hanged
the other day as It would have been to him had he
been only one of a thousand with their heads In a
noose? But, perhaps the part-proprietor meant
to speak of the evidences of consternation which
a spectator might lay hold of.
DOING THE TRICK.
SIGNOR WHITE’S GRAND EQUESTRIAN FEAT.


SNIP AND FUR.
AT FLEMINGTON RACES.
Bvmbtonb who has done much of 'his journeying l
through this vale of tears In a colonial railway
carriage must have found himself, some time or
other,at an epoch of mental excitement when his
most herolo attempts at melodious expression
summed themselves up In a growl. Everyone who
has tried to pass Seymour, on his way from Mel-
bourne to the north, or on his way from the
north to Melbourne, will remember one of these
epochs, and will, if he have much luggage on
board, lapse into the same old melody as memory
brings up the dingy platform, the couple of
benches, the huddle of boxes, the taciturn
the helmeted policeman, the counter with its
scalding coffee and saucy maidens, and the general
clamour, hubbub, and confusion, of that pattern
Junction. You get twenty minutes .there for a
change of carriages, and if you do not sit on your
boxes you can be sure that if you are bound south
they will be sent north, and if you do sit on them
you will both be sent wrong together. To increase
your pleasure as you survey these outlooks, you are
encouraged to read the advertisements placarded
along the walls, telling you that somebody’s
ooooa is appetising, and somebody’s mustard is
delicious ; or, if it be publishing day, you are pre-
sented with a copy of the local paper, whose
editor has achieved a brilliant fame by the masterly
way in which he has shown that Gladstone is not a
grand old man, but a very indifferent schoolboy in
politics, and a person that Seymour can very well
do without. All this, if you have a soul at all
attuned to music, forces you into a burst of
sublime melody, as we said before. But ladies
don’t sing on such occasions; and if they have no
one to keep the porters from hiding their boxes,
and if they have been there before, they Just sit
on the bench and think. What they think would,
we fancy, rise to a high level of excellence if ex-
pressed.
Look at that lady sitting on the bench at the
Seymour station on the eve of Derby Day. She
is evidently travelling alone, and is waiting for
the inevitable confusion to be over. It is evening,
and they are changing the carriages. They have
all this luggage to drag from those vans and to
put In those. There Is a van-door open, and four
or five porters working with a will. The boxes
are piled one on top of another, for it has been a
great day’s traffic. Observe how they empty
the van 1 Four men lay hold of the bottom
box, and pull, while the fifth man keeps his
hands against the pile on top to prevent
its falling on their heads. Ha, they have
pulled it out, and down comes the pile with a thud
that springs hinges and bursts locks! And so on,
always the bottom box first. And, having gripped
the box, their next thing is to lift it as high as they
oan and shoot it as far across the platform as they
are able. We one time went to them, and, on
behalf of a lady passenger, requested them, after
a burst of Wagnerian melody, to pare their nails
lest in handling a newly varnished thing they
might inadvertently leave a slight scratch behind;
but they could not understand us, although we
walked round them with something like the
rhythm of Tannhauser’s March.
That lady sitting on the bench in a white Shet-
land wrap looks wearily at the scene at the van.
The placards on the walls bring no joy to her. She.
hasn’t sought solace in the scalding coffee or the-
local paper. She has a trunk down there covered
with waterproof leather, and she is hoping
anxiously that it will not be knocked about. She
beckons a guard over and asks him to see to it. He
says “yes, ma’am,” and, going down, gives it a
ringing kick. Intimating with a nod that it is all
right. Then she called a porter and begged him
to place it near the door of the van, as she
wanted to get it Immediately she alighted
in Melbourne. The porter did not fully under-
stand her, until she opened a crimson seal-
skin retioule and began to handle a leather port-
monnaie. His organ of intellect lay in his palm, and
he rushed forthwith to that trunk, put it on a
trolly, and rolled it off to the goods-shed. She
thought that was strange, but assumed it should
be right, and waited to hear the bell. In a little,
she stood up, and, throwing aside her wrap, began
to search for something in her reticule. She ap-
peared to be about 26 years of age, and was a
brunette with large brown eyes and soft voluptu-
ous features. She was beautiful in many senses,
and, although her movements were reserved, she
could be counted on as the mistress of a grand
passion if occasion made it necessary. She was
dressed in black tabinet, with cream hat and
feathers, and had on long primrose gloves and
oeral ornaments.
As she stood there, delving into her reticule, a
tall, elderly man in grey looked intently at her
from the edge of the platform. The hurrying of
people up and down irritated him, and he stepped
some paces nearer, whiffing his cigar, and saying
to himself:
“ Oan it be ? It’s now ten years since we were
together. That’s her face! But they said she was
drowned. Yes; it’s she. She was the only woman
I ever saw with those eyes. Wonder if she’s
known, or what she’s on now I It might be a good
thing.”
He swung his gold-headed cane about, and
walked up and down the platform, hoping that her
eyes would meet his as he passed. But she was
busy with her retioule, and paid no attention to
anyone.
“It’s she,” he mused. “I’d bet my life on it.
I must try. I’ll drop her old name into her ear and
note the effect. Snip I ”
The retioule fell from the lady’s hand, and she
dropped on the bench. The gentleman turned
and looked full in her eyes, and then raising his
white hat he extended a hand on which a diamond
ring biased, and bowed with profound reverence.
She received the hand, and as she pressed it, mur-
mured the one word, “ Flip I ”
“Lucky to get a carriage to ourselves,” said
Flip, as the engine whistled on to Melbourne.
“ You’d have been in a nice mess about that lug-
gage only for me. The fellow had It stowed away,
and you wouldn’t have seen it for a month. Glad
to hear you have struggled along this far, and are
not known Melbourne way. Neither am I. I
believe we oan work it straight. In fact, we must.
Strange that we’re just now about as we were
when weparted —only older. Ah, ten rears is a long
time I We both had our chances. I thought when
I left London I was a millionaire. But the money
melted around me, melted actually in my pockets.
I went into mines in Levuka, railroads in India,
and beche-de-mer in the Gulf, and came out of
everything broken. I’m always breaking while I
have anything, and then, like the old fellow in
mythology, I have to strip and roll the stone up
again, or, like the other fellow, begin to fill the
vase of my destiny from the well once more. But
there’s no good in regretting. These races are a
do or die. They have their Cup. We also must
have one. lam just worth fifty pounds, a couple
of suits of clothes, and a couple of diamonds, in
the realm of Cash, but in the realm of Hope I’m
Croesus. Lucky you’re about the same way cir-
cumstanced. I’m a Dutchman if we don’t leave
Flemington with our hands full. We have money
enough to rise fro n. We’ll put up at the Exoali-
bur —it’s a first-cl-’ss hotel. No end of squatter#
and such like. Glad you had no design fixed up.
I was on spec. too. The minute I saw you I saw
light. This is how we’ll do it, eh, Snip? Now
listen—eh, Snip ?”
“You’re right. Flip, I think I see it.”
“Eh. Snip?”
“Yes, Flip.”
Jerrold Jackson found himself wandering about
the Flemington course early on the morning of
the Derby day. He was accustomed to early rising
in the bush, and had driven out immediately after
breakfast to get a leisurely look, before the crowd
gathered, at the improvements which time had
wrought along the banks of the Saltwater River.
He had not been in the metropolis during the last
twenty years. He had lived in the interior, and
while his flocks increased his heart was glad; he
had also loved there, and had buried his love. He
was now in his fifty-fifth year, and was still phy-
sically strong : but habit had made him a silent
man, and his solitary life in the bush impressed
his manner with a character of coldness and dis-
tance. The effect of living in the bush is not
barbaric. The wide houseless plains, the droughts
in periods and the floods in periods, the white clear
sky, the strong fresh winds supple both body and
mind: and the dweller among flocks, if he have
restrained himself from the vices of the bottle,
nearly always develops a thoughtfulness and kind-
liness of feeling of which those who spend their
lives running up and down the streets of cities are
ignorant. Men who have lived always in cities are
glven to be insincere, uncandid, hypocritical,- sus-
picious. To save their humanity from cozeners they
begin by hiding it away behind assurances, make-
beliefs, delusions which they know to be delu-
sions, professions which they know to be meaning-
less, and smiles which they know to be feigned;
and, if in the end they get time to discover any-
thing, it is that their humanity has perished in its
confinement. Spontaneity is extinct. Response
to genuine joy is hysterical and artificial, to genuine
sorrow is hysterical and hollow. The bushman on
his lowest level may be coarse, but, on his normal
level, and especially on that level which fair com-
petence and a free bold life give to some, he
approaches nearer the dignity of human existence
than those who win honours in cities and fame in
towns. Although Jerrold Jackson was advanced
in years, his sympathies were young and fresh, his
heart was warm and large: he could still nity, he
could still admire, he could still love —as a boy
loves, as a man should love—with ever so much
unreason in it. whole oceans of sweetness about it,
whole skies or radiance over it.
As the morning advanced, people began to move
about on the Flat, and th" Hill began to be
studded with licensed bookmakers, each conspi-
cuous with his badge on his hat and a post at his
shoulder. Only officials moved about the Grand
Stand, and the Lawn was tenantless. In the
paddock the Jockeys and stable-men were chewing
straws and discussing prospects in their own
emphatic way. But at last trains started to
whistle and vehicles to roll through the gates, and
crowds of people to spread themselves over the
Flat, and to group themselves on the Hill, and to
swell up from the carriage-drive.
“Hello, Mr. Jackson, glad to see you here so
early,” said a gentleman of the name of Cowley, a
member of the firm of Cowley and Co., who acted
as agents in the wool-broking line for most of the
stations in the interior. “ Haven’t we a beautiful
morning? Byron Moore has metamorphosed the
place. He has cut away the foot of the hill and put
a new head on it. That’s money, eh? Money and
brains. What horses are you for 7”
“Don’t know much yet,” answered Jackson.
“ Will wait till I see the lot. I bid high for Delusion
before I saw some others, and mustn’t do it again.
Things are wonderfully changed since I was here
years ago. I must move cautiously, or I’ll put my
foot in it.”
“Yum, yum,” cried Cowley, jumping about on
his toes and craning his neck, “look, there’s style!
My beating heart, be still I Be dumb, false hopes!
Weave for me no fabrics of baseless visions—who
are they 2”
Half a dozen carriages curved up the drive, one
after another, and as the ladies were assisted to
the ground raiment of a thousand hues shone in
the sunlight. It was not easy to tell who the par-
ticular persons were that Cowley was enraptured
with, for they were all at that distance equally
unknown to Jackson.
“No; I see them. I know them all. It’s not
they; it’s these others. You see the second couple
coming up this way. Stay where you are : they’ll
pass in here.
“Ah,” said Jackson, “I know. I think they’re
strangers ; they’re staying at the Excalibur, where
I am. They’re the name of Wiirram-Waverley. I
had a talk with him last night about India, where
he has interests. His wife is a Good morning,”
added Jackson aloud, raising his hat as the lady
turned into the passage with her husband.
“She's a devilish fine woman,” said the little
agent, following her with his eyes; “but did you
see the tug he gave her as they passed. A hundred
to ten that they’re cat and dog I Are you on ?
Always the way, always the way. Beauty weds a
tyrant, while an amiable man like me must do the
soloist on the stage of life. But I’m off to the
paddock. You can tell by the howlingthat money
has begun to move.”
“ I say you won’t,” growled the gentleman, who,
having left his wife at the door of one of the
ladies’ rooms, was, evidently against her will,
taking an uncivil departure. “I say you won’t,”
he cried back. “ I know my own business, and will
do it my own way.” Then, after passing Jackson
and Cowley, he turned about and rushed back to
her, saying “Come, I’ll leave you on the lawn.
Come on,”
“ Did I understand that you accepted my hun-
dred to ten?” asked Cowley. “If so, we may as
well settle now. It’s cat and dog, as I told you.
How the devil is it that fine women always marry
men like that ? He evidently swills, and is half on
already. Stay, here they come. Twig her.”
Mrs. Wigram-Waverley came forward, leaning
on her husband’s arm. Her dress was of light blue
silk, trimmed with white lace. Her eyes were
large, liquid, and luminous. Her hair was dark,
and was crowned with a blue silk bonnet from
which a blue feather dropped. She raised her
hand as she passed, and through black lace gloves
delicate tapering fingers blazing with rings could
be seen. i
“ Come toThe paddock,” said Cowley. “ There’s
nothing in Melbourne like that. I’ll fret if I look
at her again. I have five to one about the favour-
ite. Come on.”
Mr, Wigram-Waverley save his wife a turn
round the lawn, and then he said to tier, “You saw
the man in black, with the high black hat ? I
pulled you as we passed him whengoimr in. That’s
Jerrold Jackson, of Alma station. He stops at the
Excalibur, and I found out ail about him last
night. He’s your mark. Follow your own ideas;
Get together somehow. I’ll play the brute, and
I’m sure we’ll land him. Now, keep your eyes
openand he hurried up by the back of the Lawn
to the paddock where backers were holding revelry
and the air was full of din.
“Curse the market odds I” exclaimed Mr.
Wigram-Waverley, crushing over to where Jack-
sou stood with a book and pencil in his hand, “ I
believe in backing my fancy straight out. Dirk
Hatteralok is all there, and 111 go ten to one—say
twenty.”
“ Well,” said Jackson, “you’ll have no difficulty
in meeting a taker.”
“ Will you take me ?”
“Most happy,” said Jackson. “Hullo I let’s see
what’s up on the course.”
The paddock was considerably thinned in an
Instant, for an accident had happened. Plunger
and Delusion had come into collision while doing
a preliminary canter, and the latter had breathed
its last at the fence.
“ I’m clinched in that quarter,” mused Jackson,
Then he observed, aloud: “ Doesn’t the Lawn look
beautiful from here I The display of dresses is
extremely line. Who is that lady in bright orange
colours? 1 ’
“O, curse all that!” snarled Wigram-Waveney
“ I wish they’d send off the race.”
“ Are you down with others on the same terms as
with me ? ” asked Jackson.
“ Half a dozen others,” growled Wigram; “ half
a dozen. Dirk is all there, and I’m sure of him.”
Just then the course was cleared, and the race
for the Stakes began. In a couple of minutes it
was over. Commotion had won, and Dirk Hatter-
aick was nowhere.
“ Come down below and I’ll settle,” said Wigram.
“ It’ll do after a while,” said Jackson.
“ No, no,” persisted the other. “I do these sorts
of things on the nail. It’s my way.”
They had just got below, and the twenty pounds
had changed bands, when Mrs. Wigram-Waverley
rushed up to her husband, and catching him by
the sleeve tried earnestly to impress something
upon his mind. But he would not hear. He shook
her off violently. She turned her large eyes on
Jackson, and as he gazed into them, pity and sym-
pathy welled up within him. Unconsciously v
gesture indicated that he thought Wigram w^ IS
“ I heg your pardon,” said Wigram. “Mr t ,
son—my wife. ’ Ar> Jac k-
Mr. Jackson touched the lady’s Angers nnH* .
them thrill along his arm. B ’ and felt
“Oh!” sighed she as her husband J
abruptly round to accost some other person
a book—“it does seem outre for me to how
posing so between Sebastian and his bettini k
it is such a passion with him, such a frlghtfiii’ ,
destroying passion, that for his own sake l!*
Does ho lose heavily?” asked Jackson feii
rather mean for having pocketed the notes Ha «
a minute before. ° w
“ Heavily I O, sir, you are a stranger: but if
knew all, you would not think harshly of J
trying to restrain him Six months ago ho ,
ten thousand pounds in one day in Calcutta ,
he is so headstrong, so violent, so sanguine tovT
as I am informed, he has not the slightest ch«n
Where is he ? Sebastian ? Ah, he is away a™
Dear sir, do not let me be detaining you from
sport. I suppose all gentlemen are given to it •
‘ No,” said Jackson, whose heart was beating
vigorous sympathy with the distressed quean
beauty; “I’m no sporting man, naturally r iot o '
amuse me to a safe extent, but that is "all
sorry you are alarmed about your husband D
won a triUe from him, but I’ll not bet with hi
any more. I can see what you say is true D
does plunge recklessly, and goes wilfully wvAnn.
‘ls he drinking?” asked the lady, with a Ini
earnest gaze into the eyes of Jackson.
“I fear I must say that he is going too far
that way also. Perhaps you will allow me
accompany you back to the Lawn. You will
more comfortable than here.”
“Yes, that’s Jackson, of Alma station, with he
whispered a lady in Indian muslin to another
orange. “ He’s something to her. Well n
guesses were wrong. That shows us how
ought to be careful. But on such a day as tl
there’s so many queer people about. Now do v
think her pretty ? I hate her kind of eyes Th
seem to talk.” * A “
“ And look at her gait,” said the lady in oramr
“ It’s too stately. I don’t think anything of hf
but I’m glad she’s respectable.”
“By Jove!” broke in a gentleman with an ev
glass, as he sauntered between the ladies « W h n
that woman ? By Jove, do you know her ? 1
Jove, that’s the Anest woman I’ve seen in At i
tralia. Walk up this way till I get a good 100 '
By Jove, such eyes! such a Agure! such a gait
By Jove, who’s that with her? Ha, that’s o
Jackson. I met him at the club. By Jove who
did he get her ? By Jove!” ’ e
“ I don’t see where the beauty lies,” scanned th
muslin lady.
“ I think her an affected thing, ’’snapped the lad
in orange.
• • • •
And the Hotham Handicap was run, but Jac
son laid no new bets. He hurried about among t e
betting men, however, to try and keep Wigram
Waverley from throwing away his money. But
found Wigram obstinate, very obstinate; and as i
brought the lady up to the refreshment-room for
glass of lemonade he had to admit to her, wit
grief, that his inAuence had very little effect o
the rash husband.
“Take me to him,” cried the wife, “take me
him I Let me have another word with him.”
Jackson took her along, but after promenadli
to the gate of the paddock he found that t »
husband had changed his quarters. He was no
on the Hill, and was making more noise than an r
half-dozen of the bookmakers at the posts.
“ Come down, I want to speak to you,” whi
pored Jackson. “This way. Take care or you'
slip. Now, do try to be cautious. That horse you’
laying on can do nothing. Don’t go so deep. Com
on.”
“ I’ll lay a level hundred to Ave that Barge win
the Maribyrnong Plate. I believe in my fane -.
Are you on ?”
“No. Here is your wife waiting for youth
long time.”
“O, Sebastian,” sobbed the wife, catching him
by the shoulder, “do be wise; do think of yon
self and me! We are here in a strange countr r ,
and do think of our future ”
Sebastian looked at her for an Instant, and
grinding a curse between his teeth, Aung her o
against the fence. Then, turning about witi
clenched hands, he walked up the Hill again.
B •
The day wore on. Jackson, who had booke
some bets on the Derby, saw after them, and
although he had luckily hit on the winner ofth
Blue Ribbon, the roll of notes was a small matte
in his eyes. Only that such a thing was out of th
question, he would have handed the winnings ove
to the insulted, outraged, anxious woman, in whom
now he felt a thousand interests centering, to
wards whom he felt his eyes involuntarily drawn
around whom he felt that there was a
atmosphere where his heart rested, wher
his mind rejoiced. It had occurred to him early i
the day that he was foolish to mix himself up ii
the differences between a wife and herhusbanc,
and he had his mind made up to get out of th
position at the Arst opportunity; but now that
had learned so much, had gone so far, had seen s
much of her beauty and grace, of her sweetnes
and amiability, of her sorrow and anguish, th
thought of abandoning her made him call himsel
a coward. No; her husband was a brute, and sh
was an angel, and while she claimed a service a
his hand, perish his hand if it refused to yield it!
When the last race was over, Wigram-Waverle.’
presented himself, his face swollen with drink
and a dark scowl on his brow.
“How much, dear, have you lost ?” asked th i
wife. “My business is my business,” growled the
husband with a stamp of his foot; and then turn
ing to Jackson, who stood near, he added “Say
Jackson, will you take a seat in our trap ?” n
“ No, thanks ; ” said Jnokson, “ I drove out.
Then hands were shaken, the tapering Angers o
the lady trembling in Jackson’s palm, and her
large, luminous eyes pouring silent thanks mb
his dizzied brain. Of course they would see each
other at the hotel, but until Cup day there was no
formal arrangement for another meeting.
The sun rose gloriously on the morningof Cui
day, and everyone who knew the difference
between a horse and a bedstead, and liked me
former better than the latter, rose gloriously too
And, as the sun climbed towards the zenith, every-
one in Melbourne and its suburbs rode or waiaea
or steamed to Piemington. An hour before noon
a population bigger than that of one-halt o
Queensland moved about an egg-shaped *P ac , ‘
a few miles area, crowding to spots and scattering
from them, forming a dense black knot roun
some favourite charmer, or promenading siowi
over the closely cropped turf. Where are our'o
friends of the Derby day ? Have they ff° ne .9“c
some happy reconciliation, or have they, win on
much more likely, tumbled out of the worin
pleasure through the gates of some wild t
gedy ? The Lawn is more crowded tnan
the last day. Stately dames, nimble m ““ h ,
sparkle and gleam. Ha! Yonder is the “x
blue silk robe, the white lace, the bon
the feather, the black lace gloves with the je .
led Angers shining through, and the supple
Agure, and the great beaming eyes,and thequee
ly dignity and serious grace that received so m
of our attention at the Derby. Mrs. Wig %
Waverley is there. And where is her huso u
Yonder, among that black crowd on the top oi ,
Hill, jangling and wrangling, offering a “P h
to one on every horse that can’t win. wn-
white hat on the back of his head, and oj B s e <0 u r .
swollen with drink and sunshine— yonder w
Wigram-Waverley. And where is Jerrold »
son ? We must search about to And him. »ec,
"Hurdle Race is on. Everyone is peering of
Matador, and following the long, Arm s P”JLjg
Ringwood. But Jackson is not on the )f
not with the crowd anywhere—is by “ ‘
solitary and alone, as muen as ever he was
out-station at Alma. He is sitting on ,AH. of
that surrounds a shady pine-tree, ma f Lis
th© paddock, his eyes wet with tearsi and « the
handkerchief in his hand. What to hun anj ooe
two to one against Ringwood and tne n ' fb ing.
against Dizzy? He is here, aniilo-
hearing nothing, but sobbing, sighing, auu
quismg.
PERSONAL.
LITTLE WIFE: “What’s a dude, Charley? I see a lot about dudes.”
CHARLEY: “Hang it, d’ye want to insult me?”


Art tr n i o
FOB THE
LARGE LIFE-SIZE PORTRAIT IN OILS
. of thellate
N
Most Rev. Dr. VAUGHAN,
ARCHBISHOP OF SYDNEY.
PAINTED BY GLADSTONE EYRE.
300 Tickets, at One Pound each.
GLADSTONE EYRE, at the particular request
of many friends and admirers of the above late
lamented and distinguished Prelate, is now en-
gaged in painting a Large, Life-size Portrait in
Ou. of him, and will dispose of the same by Art
Union, under the Management of a Committee
chosen from the Shareholders themselves.
On the day prior to his departure, Gladstone
Eyre had the honour to receive from His Grace a
special letter of introduction to one of the Head*
of the Church in Rome, in which the late Arch-
bishop was pleased to express that he had great
faith in the artist, and wished that every intro-
duction and attention should be paid him, to
further his proposed professional visit to Italy.
Gladstone Byre assures the subscribers to this
Art Union, that this large painting, 60 x 48 inches,
shall be a most striking likeness, and faithfully
represent the late eminent Archbishop and Head
of the Catholic Church in this colony.
In this magnificent Painting, the well-known
noble features and majestic figure of His Grace
will be thoroughly depicted to the life, thus giving
his many admirers an opportunity of realising, to
some extent, his presence once more amongst them.
“ He was a man, take him for all in all.
We shall not look upon his like again.”
As the number of tickets are limited to 200 at £1
each, early application is necessary to be made for
them, and they will be sent by return post.
GLADSTONE BYRE, Portrait Painter in Oils,
Pastoral Chambers, 375 George-st., Sydney.
The above Painting is finished, and now on view
at the Artist’s Studio. The public are invited to
inspect It.
Pastoral Chambers, 375 George-street, Sydney.
To Gladstone Eyre,
I have to request that you will send me
Tickets in the above Art Union for the large
Painting in Oil of His Grace the late Archbishop
Vaughan.
;IBBS, BRIGHT & CO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE. BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN
ANTONY GIBBS, SOrfs & CO.. LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
- w vw., JUI V E
ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OP : HONGKONG.
-Portland Cement
IU, Sons and Company (Limited). Gainsborough—Poi-table Horizontal, and Vertical Engines.
Threshing Machines, Saw Benches, &c., &c. “ ’
Crossley Brothers (Limited), Manchester—The celebrated “ Otto ” Silent Gas Engines
Bow, M Lachlan and Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &cT&c.
Thos. Glover and Company, London—Patent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian and Sons —Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penyrorsedd Slate Company (Limited)—Bangor Slates.
The Quicksilver Mining Company, San Francisco—Quicksilver.
Pels and Company, of Patras and Corfu—Currants.
Thos. Bell and Co.—English Hams, Bacon, &c., &o.
Red Cross Preserving Company, Victoria—Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, &o.
De Wendel and Company, Hayange, Prance—Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plates, Iron and
©ncmg' w ir©, Ac.
Thos. Perry and Son, Bilston—Fire-resisting Safes. Drybroughand Co., Edinburgh—Ale
Brunton and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse, Thos. N. Hunt—Port Wine
Dubos Freres, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablls, Sautemes
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES.
Jlnd^a S Mm Co WALE8 '~ S ° ott and MuUaJjr > T - AUsop, P. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros,
Victoria.—James Pryand Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
South Australia.—W. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Rinnirg
&T INDENTS executed, on the most favourable terms, from all parts of the world. Consignments
of produce received for shipment to London, under liberal advances.
☆
mn
THE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO.
are the largest consumers of American
Leaf In the colonies, hence the FIRST
position for quality is assigned to their Twist
and Flat Tobaccos —Yankee Doodle, Conqueror, Sir Roger (thick
twist), R. C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture, and others.
CIGARETTES- Their CONQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold an equal position.
&STD. & S., Importers of Pipes of every kind, Cigars, and all Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods and Sundries
“Couldn’t have believed It,” he is saying;
“ couldn’t have thought it. It came on by de-
grees, and I never knew until now—O life, life!
0 love, love I Yes, Sebastian is a brute, and
Marian is an angel. The life she has led with him
since Saturday last, and not since then alone, but
as she has told me, all along, all along 1 But still
she is his wife, and I should keep away. So I
would, if it were any other sort of a case but this.
But 1 can’t here. In a day or two he will carry
her off to some other region, and torture her sweet
heart to death. Oh, oh I” And he sopped his eyes
with his handkerchief. “Torture her sweet heart
to death. Oh, oh I” The cry came up, “ Rlngwood
first 1” but he heeded not, heard not. He rubbed
his eyes, and cried “Oh, oh I Torture her sweet
heart to death, torture her sweet I must go
down and talk to her, I think she knows how I
feel towards her, and what I would say if my lips
dared. I think she does. Last night I was just on
the point of saying it, when her dear eyes
rested on mine, and she pressed my hand
to keep silence. But Sebastian may rush
away with her any time. She says he always acts
impulsively; and if he finds luck against him,
plunges for his carriage and leaves the country in
an hour. It’s plain that luck is against him here,
and, therefore, he may rush any minute. And
then I’d never see Marian more, and he would
torture her to death—oh I oh! he would torture
her to death; oh! oh! he would torture her sweet
l’ll go down and talk to her. I’ll tell her I’ll
love her, live for her, die for her!”
“Where have you been all morning?” asked
little Cowley, meeting him as he returned from the
Lawn. “ Are you into the Railway Stakes ? Come
on. I’ll back the field at five to one. What ails
you ? Anything up with the Wigram-Waverleys ?
All the young fellows down there envy you. That
husband of her’s is a brute. He’s going about like
a maniac But is anything serious up, or does it
concern you ?”
“No, no,” answered Jackson. “It’s nothing.
1 don’t care about betting. I’d rather walk
about.”
Cowley looked after his friend and whistled
lowly. Then he raised his field-glass and turned it
on the Lawn where Mrs. Wlgram-Waverley was
seated with her face towards him. “A devilish
handsome woman,” he said; “devilish handsome.
But this mustn’t go too far. The old lad has been
so long in the bush that he may go farther in than
he’ll like. Who the devil are these Wigram-
Waverleys? She is a splendid woman, upon my
soul.”
But Jerrold Jackson had got back to the pine-
tree, and was sopping away at his eyes once more.
“ I didn’t say it after all,” he soliloquised. “It was
on my lips, but it wouldn’t come out. But she
knows what I mean. I see she has confidence in
me. I love her: I love her through time and
eternity. And to think that her brute Sebastian
may come any time and snatch her away, and in
some strange land, where no friendly eye would
see her, torture her sweet heart to death. Oh, oh I
torture her sweet heart to death. Oh, oh! torture
her sweet I’ll go down again and talk to her.
I’ll tell her this time.” And down again he walked
by the front of the Grand-stand, and accosted her
with a bow.
“ Damme!” ejaculated Cowley, who happened to
be just then looking in that direction. “ Damme,
this is going too far. Yes, that’s her husband. He
can see all from the top of the Hill. Is he only
shamming the maniac ? But, hang it, there goes
the race I’ r
The great event of the day was at hand. Twenty-
nine horses, sleek and shining, supple and slight,
were going through a few flourishes preliminary
to the great struggle for the Melbourne Cup. The
Immense crowds, hearse with shouting, and trem-
bling with excitement, now held their breath and
waited for the starter’s signal. But one man was
blind to all the pageant, and careless to whom
should fall the glory of the Cup victory. “ I,” he
mused, as he ordered the horses up for his buggy,
“have won a grander victory than any Cup—a
victory that will fill my life with glory and my
heart with bliss. Marian is mine. There will be a
stampede from the course as soon as the race is
over, and in the confusion our departure will not
be noticed. We’ll take the train to-night for
Sydney, and let Sebastian do his worst. The
chances are that the brute will not know bis loss,
as the sweet, dear angel surmises. O Marian,
Marian, love is such sweet pain! such sweet,
ecstatic pain!”
From the Hill, from the Flat, from the Grand-
stand, the voices that had been suppressed began
o flow out in a low, swelling sound. Gradually it
rose higher and fuller, until, as the horses entered
the straight, and stretched themselves under the
flying whips, the air vibrated with emotion, which
all at once, as Martini-Henry, springing like an
arrow to the front, shot past the judge’s box,
burst into a clamour, long, loud, deafening, and
tumultuous.
Many left the course at the close of this crown-
ing race. Carriages were in motion, steam-engines
were whistling, bettors were settling up, and
every one went hither and thither, some glad,
others sorry, but all excited and breathless with
the confusion.
“I say,” said Wigram-Waverley, coming up to
Cowley on the Stand, “ who’s that man Jackson ?”
‘ Why ? ” asked Cowley, and glancing over the
Lawn, and missing the lady in light blue, he
placed himself on his guard. “ Why ?”
“All right,” said wlgram, now quite cool, “I
only thought you were his friend, and might wish
to avert an unpleasantness. A detective will sup-
ply the information I require. Isn’t thatJnspector
Toohey beyond ? ”
* Stay,” suggested Cowley, recognising that he
could not work on that fine. “Jackson is my friend
knd yours, too, I think. Explain.”
“He has my wife away with him. Tell me where
he is. His buggy’s gone. They were seen go
together.”
“Oh, you’ll find them at the hotel when you go
home. You see you were drunk, and carrying on
in a most uncivil way to her, and Jackson is a soft
Hearted man, and no doubt when all is explained
youwill feel thankful to him.”
Perhaps,” assented Wlgram. “Perhaps. So
iar, however, the explanation does not Incline that
«ay. Look at this precious epistle—a joint work,
apparently. No, I’ll not let it out of my hands,
°ht you can read it in mine.”
h.V? w, ey’ 8 face B' rew very long as he read. One
hoii T , the effusion was Marian’s and the other
ahi 1 Ja ekson - s. Marian asked his forgiveness, as
" e .™ she now met one who offered her his love,
An/1 T °se love she had accepted for good and all.
Jackson assured him that come what
*• U i “ arlaQ would for ever now be his.
ul l? lnous brimstone 1” yelled Cowley. “The
Whli‘ 1 5 tln8: idJot to do that with his own hand!
“v; j , you propose doing ?”
ii fading him, in the first instance.”
111 go with you.”
wainS 8 ’ £ be ?! r . e here. Something told me they’d be
siting for this train. They’re in this hotel.’’
“ w 2, w V llko a sensible man,” pleaded Cowley,
von „ e . have a word with Jackson first. I pledge
b d “ y honour I’ll give him no assistance to escape,
>ng tho ft ™ y of peacefully understand-
I’fl find ** yOU give me a few minutes >
Very well.” *
clininW?? \ you ,?? away * rom m e I” cried Marian,
Crown 8 , neok ln a sitting-room of the
to SOMw otel, , Dont leave me. If Cowley wants
to you, let him do it here. Oh, don’t leave
I mean 11 ®£ er P al donkey.” said Cowley; “er—ah—
tairhtn’h^tly £ be Well, this is a nice mess! You
IOOk hers'l® b6e ? iD gaGl by nOW - You 866 y OU
f uinedT” (ilaniondB 88 well as the rest. Man, you’re
“I’ll , n °thing but herself,” signed Jerrold;
for thorn P 3 her jewels, or any money he asks
nowp' ’ Dut heaven or earth won’t separate us
“I’ilHtn - I hog pardon I meant ”
‘‘l »«e hn«i? u , w j began Cowley, coming out-
likeiy (T-Ln Come now, Wigram—you are
no gre»f °* her as she :s of you. You can do
9* tfood by running them down.
You iniisr l u n 1 ke her back now, at any rate.
w °uld „ th^ ave b ? ea bai| ly hit at the Races. Well,
clear?” taousa ud pounds be any good to you, and
“No,” said Wlgram, firmly.
now, come now. come now,” pleaded
Cowley. Look before you. If you get into the
y° u can t get It out again for Some time.
n° w - Act prudently. What figure will
satisfy you ? Don t stir. Think a minute.”
Jackson, said Cowley, going In again, “I’d
advise you to give him five thousand. That’s his
figure. You re caught red-handed, and there's no
get out. He wants gold so as to clear at once.
•Jr*? 1, ®y°ur order, and I’ll get him the coin.”
Uli, don t leave mel** sobbed Marian.
That night Jerrold Jackson wondered where
Marian could have gone to. He had lost her at
u l a , thought ghe must have come back
+2 k ® j- But, on enquiring here, she was not
to be found. Next day he sent for Cowley. But
wires to Sydney brought no intelligence. “ Dam-
me I cried the little agent, “I never saw such a
mess. Don t say g word about it to the police.
You have a hold on her diamonds, for I made the
fellow mention these in his receipt. But that’s
“Oh, damn the diamonds I It’s herself. It’s the
angei. It s Marian I want. I still believe in
Marian. She Is lost or drowned, but her heart Is
true to mel 111 believe for over in Marian —for
ever, for everl”
But sitting In the cabin of a neat little steamer
bound for Adelaide was a lady In a white Shetland
wrap, and beside her sat a tall, elderly man, and
they were chatting and laughing about five thou-
sand pounds they had made at the Melbourne Cup,
and he would say “Poor old Jerrold Jackson!”
and she would say “The silly stupid old fool!” and
then he would caressingly murmur “Snip!" and
she would caressingly whisper back “Flip!"
Woman Items.
At a Burwood wedding, recently, it was
proposed to scatter flowers under the bride’s feet.
But when they saw her feet, the plan was aban-
doned.
Short-sighted old lady: “Hi! Omnibus,
Hi I” Hearse-driver (unbending) : “ All right,
mum! Most ’appy, mum; directly, mum 1”
In Mauritius, they are going to reduce the
age at which girls can marry to 13. In Sydney,
there are girls who think it ought to be extended
to 45.
It was suggested by the friends of a well-
known man, that as he had been visiting a certain
widow nearly every week for over two years, he
ought to marry her. “ So I should like to,” he
replied, naively, “ but in that case where could I
spend my evenings ? ”
Two Mormon elders, are now busy can-
vassing in the Wimmora (Viet.) district, for con-
verts, and it is reported that one contingent has al-
ready sailed for the happy land of Brigham y. A
painful expression shoots over the pious face of
Mr. Osman Day when he reflects, in Darllnghurst
gaol, that if he had only opened out in Utah he
might now have been a Lord Bishop, with 47 wives
to kick and cuff at his leisure.
Some years ago, in America, the Prince of
Wales demurred to dining in a party of which
one member was a hotelkeeper. Recently, a lady
who has received most gracious attention from
the Prince of Wales, is Mrs. Paran Stevens, whose
husband in America left her on his death an im-
mense fortune. And this lady’s daughter married
one of the Prince’s boon companions, Captain
Paget. Yet the husband who left Mrs. Paran
Stevens all her money was the bonlface with
whom H.R.H. declined to dine.
Two Americans courted the same girl, and
as polyandry is considered bad form in the States,
she had to put up with one. Some years after-
wards, the husband met his former rival, and lost
to him at cards everything he had in the world.
Then the winner said, with cynical brutality: “ I’ll
stake it all against the key of your •house.”
Done,” said the half-demented loser, and again
he lost. Cramming the tiny key into the barrel of
his revolver, he observed, r ‘ You’ve won the key.
Take it.” There was a murder and a suicide.
We trust Reid will prove forte- ter in re
negativing the demand for pianos for the High
School. Garbanny is quite right, the pianoforte
hag been a fetish of femaje education too long.
As an “ extra ” in the boarding-school curriculum,
it has certainly been a fee-tish, to which pater-
familias has too long cringed; yet, if in a moment
of weakness, Reid should grant pianos, it must be
insisted on, that those who strum them pay extra
for the privilege.
The very latest fashionable craze is the
“ surprised eyebrow.” The process by which it is
formed is very simple, consisting of just a few
strokes to arch the brow over each eye into the
expression which marks astonishment. And the
general effect is to cause the wearer to look as
surprised if she had just bobbed up against a
pirate’s ghost, or caught her husband mugging the
lady cook behind the pantry door. The next fad
will probably be the disgusted toe-nail, and this
can be formed in an instant, by the lady accident-
ally kicking her toe against the heel of a chair as
she tramps about in the dark barefooted to look
for baby s feeding-bottle.
Some Melbourne ladies feel much ag-
grieved just now. Their “ Cup ” dresses were not
properly reported by the Argus and Age, for,
astounding as it may seem, “lace costing at least
ten pounds a yard, was described as being a
material worth as many shillings.” The ladles
have written to a little publication explaining
these terrible mistakes, and asking for their cos-
tumes to be set right in the eyes of the world.
This is a sad business altogether. We trust, next
year, to see the cost price of the toilettes hand-
somely embroidered down the backs—otherwise,
these ridiculous statements about lace and things
may continue to mislead the public.
THE CHURCH BELLE.
A dainty little bonnet,
The sweetest marabout,
A sea of tawny wavelets
O'er forehead white as snow,
A brace of sparkling sapphire,
Two cheeks of rosy dye,
A pair of lips of ruby,
And a fascinating sigh—
Think’st thou she goes to worship ?
Ah 1 ’tls difficult to tell,
But it’s plain both saints and sinners
Worship that Sabbath Belle.
A tightly-fitting bodice,
Costume ail brocaded,
Short petticoats with flounces
In endless colours braided;
Enamelled shoes, with buckles
Such as the Frenchmen vend,
With lofty taper heel-tap
To give a Grecian bend—
Think’st thou it’s for God’s glory
She dresses out so well,
Or does she want some saints or sinners
To love the Sabbath Belle ?
One of the most promising young lady
violinists of the day, is Signorina deresina Tau,
who, after a brilliant career on the Continent, has
fairly carried oft’ the honours of the season. She
played lately at Marlborough House, and she Is
engaged at several noble houses for private
parties. The success gained by the young lady is
indeed phenomenal, and is the more remarkable
in that her age is but fifteen years and seven
months. Her father was a poor violinist, and he at
first taught his daughter; but at the age of nine
she was sent to the Paris Conservatoire, under
Massart, master of Sarasato and Wieniawsky, and
there at twelve years of age she carried off the
first prize. Queen Isabella of Spain and Madame
la Martchale MacMahon interested themselves a
?reat deal in the child, and she soon became a
avourite in the salons of the Faubourg St. Ger-
main. She toured last winter with the Viennese
pianist Hebert Fischof, under Alfred Fischof,
through Spain, France, Italy, Austria, and Ger-
many. Next winter Slgnorina Tua will probably
visit America under Mr. Alfred Fischof.
• * •
Barnum’s fat girl never knew the feeling
of celestial delight that steals over the average
young woman’s quivering frame when she first
sits on a man’s knee. For the fat girl is 30 stone...
Verjuice thinks that Schools of Art and Design
for Women are a mistake, since the sex is a
thousand times too artful and designing without
them....
Thus Farnell: “He never knew a pastoral
tenant who objected to a bona fide selector.”
Ahem I Never (without any qualification), we-
thlnks, would “ hardly ever ” have been the better
phrase. And Farnell claims to have agrarian ex-
perience. Had he ever been a b.f.s. (we really
mean bona fide selector) on, say, one of Sir
’s runs, he wouldn’t have required an intro-
duction to a pastoral tenant, who entertained ob-
jection to the blank blanked selector.
The M Laughlin has a little bill on the
board for regulating appeals to and the constitu-
tion of the Supreme Court sitting in Banco. He
doesn’t propose to utilise dynamite in the con-
struction of the cushions for the bench; else we
might say something for the Bill. What it proposes
to do is to prevent a judge from sitting on an ap-
peal from his own judgment. Not a bad idea,
either, in one sense. But wait! it also proposes
“ That the full court on the hearing of any such
appeal shall consist of two or more judges of the
Supreme Court, and if at any time there shall be
only two judges of the said court sitting in Banco
on the hearing of any matter, and a difference of
opinion shall arise between them, then such matter
shall be re-heard before three judges of the said
court so soon thereafter as conveniently can be,”
etc. and so on. All of which, though possibly well
meant, looks to us like a device to make appeals
less terminable than ever, and to put more fees
into attorneys’ pouches. As ’tis said in the classics,
Tlmeo lawyer ox et reforma ferentes.
In the city of the South, Monoure Con-
way’s greatest wonder of modern times, and the
late Earl Russell’s spirited and enterprising town
situated “In the vicinity of Adelaide In West.
Australia,” the sun of competition now burns with
meridian splendour. Nobody can become anything'
except a member of Parliament or a Governor
without going through an examination. Time was
when a bobby could grow Into a senior constable
by getting the cook to speak to her master. Tim*
was when a senior-constable could bud out into a
serreant by carrying a member of the Ministry
home instead of to the lookup. But those times
are gone. Berry has appointed the board who are
to examine the candidates for these promotions.
T. Brodribb, a school Inspector, Is one of the
members, and he is to take the heavy literature
department. Superintendent Montfort Is to find
out whether the candidates know the dlfiferenoe
between their right and left legs, and a man of the
name of Moore is to be the frano-tireur of general
competency. We hope these examinations will be
conducted as much as possible on paper; and w©
hope the papers will be printed, just to see how
much a bobby is expected to know. W©
have heard something about Brodribb as an
examiner of school teachers, and If you
can tell him where his native place is yon
get honours in geography. That's not so
far wrong, for, with the exception of on©
other who got lost, he is the only man that ever
came from that place. And we think we can tell
the first question of Mr. Montfort. He affects
rudimentary arithmetic, and is prone to simple
proportions. For Instance, he will ask, and look
above while the answer Is coming, “ If a common
policeman can live on six-and-sixpenoe a day, how
much will it take to keep a superintendent ?” ny
bobby who works out less than three millions will
be at once plucked. Then Moore will tilt in, and,
as no one knows Moore, no one can tell what he will
tilt. But the end of it all will be that the “ foorce ”
will be put to a little extra trouble, and will be,
after all, Just the sort of men they are now, with a
little knack to catch the eyes of the examiners.
Society is actually safer—that is, that part of
society on which the bobby operates—now, when
the white helmets sit on comparatively Ignorant
heads, than It will be when this precious Board
has shoved under the helmets the few literary
tricks that will win its verdict.


'L- la.e ZESeliaTble Eta.g'gf'ies I
S'
■S
NO SECOND CHEAP HOUSE.
22 and 24 CLARENCE STREET, ONLY,
POR GOOD GOODS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS & WAGGONETTES,
BACKBOARD WAGGONS, AND EVERY STYLE OF BUGGY.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Clarence-street.
VIRTUTIS GLORIA MERGES.
COALCLIFF COAL.
Thli NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY supplies the CHEAPEST. CLEANEST, and
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony.
£1 per Ton net, delivered within city bounds.
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and bars kept well free from ash, makes a stronger,
lore lasting, and cleaner fire that any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky flare and soot of
Newcastle eoal, nor does It splinter and fly off like the Western, but it affords that domestic desideratum
of some kinds of English coal of heating an Iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a
charcoal or breeze Are, while It imparts to the steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwhole-
some fumes given off by a breeze or g'as lire.
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE ('UBTOMEHB.
Office: A. B. BLACK, 247 George Street.
fagr DEPOT : WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
TO SEWING MACHINISTS.
500-Yds. Machine Glace.
(WONDERFULLY ADAPTED FOR ALL MACHINES).
Its Excellence and Economy is at once seen.
SEE YOU OBTAIN THIS.
AMES " ~ RTIN - C°
383 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
our* Lawn Mowers
are all GUARANTEED,
and bo confident are wa of always being able
to give satisfaction that we will send
our Lawn Mowers on Approval.
W© mak© tbe
Laws Mower Trade
m Speciality t
ind have in Stock all sizes, so the require-
ments of everyone can be met.
Our Prices range from 30 Shillings,
and any Purchaser who is dissatisfied after
trial, is at liberty to return the machine at
our expense.
We In rite Inspection, and gheerfully
furnish every information.
REMEMBER.'*WE GUARANTEE EVERY LAWN MOWER WE
SEND OUT,
■
* '
#=
n
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(umitmd)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS.
OrnCHg: 42 KING BTKBBT.
Wharves : Foot of ting-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NBBDAYB, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS A SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday
Steamers Brisbane to Buadaberg, Gladstone, and
Port Maekay, every fortnight.
Bunlnyong
Fi.kht of Stulkships:
500
900
1500
1600
800
1200
760
♦ To arrive.
WM. HOWARD SMITH A SONS (limited),
42 King Street, Sydney.
NOTICE I
To Theatrical Managers, Press, Public, and the
Profession at large.
MR. AUGUSTUS GLOVER,
“ One of the most versatile artists on the London
stage.”—London Dally Telegraph, January 1881.
AUTHOR, LEADING ACTOR, COMEDIAN, and
MIMIC,
For several consecutive seasons Leading Actor at
Theatres Royal, Drury Lane, Covent Garden,
Princess, Adelphi, &o. (London), and also formerly
Sole Lessee and Manager of the world-renowned
ASTLEY’S AMPHITHEATRE,
HAS the HONOUR to announce that he has
withdrawn from the “Bandmann Combi-
nation,” and that on BOXING NIGHT, December
26th, he will commence a Tour with his own
Company, specially organized for the performances
of Drama, Comedy, Farce, an- Burlesque.
Mr. Glover purposes RE-YISITING most of the
Towns in QUEENSLAND, where he became SO
POPULAR during his recent visits
Mr. Glover’s Repertoire will include several of
HIS OWN DRAMAS, COMEDIES, &c,
played by him WITH ENORMOUS SUCCESS in
the “ Old Country,” and which will be produced
for the FIRST TIME in the COLONIES. His
Great Drama, “THE WANDERER,” will he per-
formed in EVERY TOWN where the stage will
permit of Scenic Effects, and the entire produc-
tion (in every case) made EQUAL to any yet
presented to the Australian Public !
The Wanderer! The Wanderer!
The Wanderer!
Augustus Glover’s Great Sensational Domestic
Drama (founded on facts), and acknowledged by
the English Press to be one of the most successful
plays of modern times
No “ Clap-trap,” hut plain, honest f cts, touching
alike the hearts of peer and peasant I
TEARS, SMILES, and ROARS of LAUGHTER !
THE WANDERER I THE WANDERER 1 !
THE WANDERER I I !
CAUTION.—LegaI proceedings will at once
be Instituted against anvone “PIRATING” the
Dialogue, Plot, Scenes, Title, or Effects of any of
my Plays.
GLOVER’S INTERNATIONAL COMBINATION.
Sole Pn prietor .. .. Mr, Augustus Glover.
Tour commences
BOXING NIGHT, DECEMBER 26tb.
Managers having vacant dates are politely re-
quester to communicate forthwith.
Negotiations uow pending with M»ssis. Wiili.m-
sou, Garner, and Musgiove, signor MajeiOui.
J B. Hickie, Esq. (Theatre Ko.v al, JLtmtunc).
&c., &c.
Address ;
R A INtORD’S CAMBRIDGE CLUU HOffcL.
Oxford-street, Sydney.
Christmas season, 1883-84.
GEO. ROBERT • ON
Begs to announce
THAT HIS MAGNIFICENT STOCK
CHRISTMAS
AND
NEW YEAH SCAROS
FOR THE COMiNo SEASON,
IS NOW OPEN FOR SELECTION-
GEORGE ROBERTSON,
361 George-street.
Schweppes Mineral Waters,
as supplied
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN AND ROYAL
FAMILY,
CAN be obtained of the principal Hotel-keeper**
Wine Merchants, and Chemists, throughou
the colonies.
SODA-WATER, LEMONADE, GINGER ALR
POTASS, LITHIA (for gout) SELTZER.
TONIC, MAGNESIA WATERS.
51 BERNBRS-STREET, LONDON;
58 MARGARBT-STRBBT, SYDNEY.
“m H E GUN HAGAI HER AL p<
I Pastoral Gazette & Farmers’ Chr
With which is incorporated the
“TEMORA HERALD & MINING JOURNO
Published every _
WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
The popular paper of the district.
W. H. L. BAILEY, Proprietor-
Theatrical Job Printing, and box office for
Assembly Hall.
P B R A HOUSE.
Lessee and Manager Mr. W. J. Wilson
GRAND COMEDY SEASON,
under the management of
MR. WYBERT REEVE.
Brilliant Audiences. Enthusiastic Reception.
Electric Success of Sardou’s masterpiece,
DIPLOMACY
Diplomacy.
The Greatest Play of Modern Times.
EVERY EVENING.
Magnificent Scenery and Stage Appointments.
Stage Manager .. .. Mr. Herbert Flemming
Acting Manager .. Mr. J. W. Dodge.
Overture at 8: carriages, 10.30.
Box office at Huenerbeln’s, 411 Geo.-st. Tickets
may be obtained at Roberts’s, next Theatre.
Prices as usual. NO FREE LIST.
THEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Management of
Meedrfc. Williamson, Garner, & Musobovb.
ANOTHER GREAT TRIUMPH
for the
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
A Greater Success than ever I
THIS and EVERY EVENING,
at a quarter to 8,
LES CLOCHES DE CORNEVILLB.
Prices as usual. Box office open from 11 till 4.. ,
General Business Manager, Mr. H. H. Harwood.
ODDFELLOWS’ HALL, MANLY.
THIS (Thursday) EVENING.
MISS GEORGIB SMITHSON (the Female
Macoabe) and COMPANY, prior to starting
on their tour up the Western Line, with a view of
appearing at Lithgow, Bathurst, Orange, Dubbo,
and Nyngan, will give an entertainment at the
ODDFELLOWS’ HALL. MANLY,
ON THIS (Thursday) EVENING,
Under distinguished patronage.
T
OWN
HALL, MUDGEE.
M‘LEAN’B
COMIC OPERA AND PANTOMIME COMPANY
will appewr at the above Hall
DURING THE CHRISTMAS HOLIDAYS,
commencing 26th December,
WITH SEVERAL NOVELTIES.
Grand production, for the first time in Mudgee, of
their new PANTOMIME, entitled
ALPINE APPLES ;
or,
William Tell with a Vengeance !
With Magnificent Scenery. Gorgeous Dresses, and
New Tricks.
Scenic Artist W. Klnchela.
ALF. JAMBS, Agent.
EDUCATIONAL.
"m/riss LYDIA HASTINGS Instructs In VOICE
jyjL Bmomo, ELOCUTION, PUBLIC and
PARLOUR READINGS. Class at SYDNEY
ICHQOL OF ARTS, Friday, 4 p.m.; and at
SYDNEY ARCADE, Room 35, Thursday, 8 p.m.,
Wednesday, 8 p.m. (Ladles and Gentlemen).
Visitors invited. _
Private Lessons, for Ladles or Gentlemen,
64 HUNTER STREET, opposite Ellzabeth-street.
Terms for Schools or Clubs on application.
The guitar taught
as an Accompaniment to the Voice,
by an easy and novel method, by which any lady
or gentleman may readily acquire a facility of
playing without a previous knowledge of muslo.
Terms easy.
Apply to D.A.R., Bulletin Office.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
TO LET from 6th November next. Terms on
application to Thos. Sbibioht, care of
Elyy and Co., 338 George-street, Sydney; or the
undersigned,
JAMBS B. HICKIB,
Brisbane.
THOMPSON’S OF THE
NEW DIORAMA
OF
EGYPTIAN WARI
W. H. THOMPSON, Proprietor.
STL. RYAN, Agent.
TO PROFESSIONAL TROUPES.
NOW open for engagement at NYNWfiN, near
Railway Station, the
“ ASSEMBLY BOOMS,”
large and wsll-ipWffltsd HALL. Applg te
HOARD * M’KENN A, Agent*.
LAST COURSE IN THIS COLONY.
DR. J. SIMMS, the unrivalled Phyglognomi- ,
Popular Speaker, and Author, is delivering
a short course of Illustrated and Amusing Lec-
tures on Physiognomy, at Temperance Hall, Pitt-
street. The LAST TIME FOR EVER in Sydney.
The next lecture of the series will be delivered
Saturday evening, November 17, on Forms and
Features, or The Secrets of Success !■< Life. Other
lectures will be given on November 20. 27. Admis-
sion—ls., 2s. An extensive and valuable collection
of life-size Portraits are exhibited free to-day and
daily at Temperance Hall. Dr. Simms describes
character each day this week and next, at Tem-
perance Hall, and tells what a person should do
and be ; the innate disposition, inherent genius ;
the part for which one is fitted ; the proper life
companion : state of health or disease, with ad-
vice ; and the means of self-cultivation.
To Dr. Simms.
[This poem Is dedicated to Dr. J. Simms, phy-
siognomist, now lecturing in Sydney, in testimony
of the author’s appreciation of nla unrivalled
abilities].
The lineaments of God are stamped
Upon the human face,
Their dignity in truth declare
All are unique in place.
And physiognomists explain.
And road the character.
The readiest taste and tact of men.
From sight they can infer.
Exponents of this science great
Are lights to guide the way,
Their revelations volumes teach—
None need to go astray—
Are safeguards to the human race.
To point out and define
What in the face is right or wrong,
Trace out in every Dine.
Then let their light still higher rise
And shine to perfect day,
‘ Till all shall know, as they are known,’
And darkness flee away.
All classes haste, make no delay !
The homely and refined :
What is so great as that to know
The value of the mind ?
Unto the Doctor wend your way—
Porgo your sceptic whims :
He will instruct and set you right.
The learned Doctor Simms I
Thomas Shepherd, Victoria.


General Post Office,
Sydney, 18th November, 1883.
CONVEYANCE OF MAILS.
TENDERS for the following Mall Services, either
by coach or on horseback, for one or three
years (with the exception of those lines for which a
special term Is named), to commence from the Ist
January, 1884. will be received up to noon on
"WEDNESDAY,the 28th day of Novembe*, Instant.
The signature to each tender must be witnessed by
a Magistrate or a Postmaster, otherwise the Tender
will be liable to be treated as informal.
The Tender* must be sent to the Secretary to
the Post Office, Sydney, and endorsed “Tender
for the Conveyance of Malls.”
For full particulars see Government Gazette,
a file of which is kept at every Post-offloe in the
colony. No tender will be considered unless the
terms of the notice published in the Gazette be
strictly complied with.
Western Roads.
1. Richmond and Grose Vale, three or six times a
week.
2. Hillston, Mountain Well Hotel, Mount Hope,
Gilgunnia, Sandy Creek, and Cobar, once or
twice a week ( Tenderers to specify a price for
a once ns well as for a twice a week service' 1 .
3. Mountain Well Hotel, and Gilgunnia, once a
week.
4. Sandy Creek, and Nymagee, once or twice a
week ( Tenderers to specify a price for a once
as well as for a twice a week service).
5. Wellington, Monteflores, Comobella, Murrun-
gundy, Cobbora, Merrygoen, Warkton, and
Coonabarabran, by the new line of road,
twice a week.
6. Gulargambone, Quambone, and Carlnda, via
M'Quade’s and Flynn’s Stations, once or
twice a week.
7. Timbrlebungie and Tenandra, via Burroway,
Buudemar, Beak’s, and Wonbobble, twice a
week.
8. Windsor and Freeman’s Reach, six times a
week.
9. Guyong and Byng, three times a week.
10. Warren, Tenandra, and Coonamble, via Bour-
bah (Donohoe’s) on the Merrl Merrl, and
M‘Mahon’s on the west bank of the Castle-
reagh River, once a week, for one year only.
11. Springs and Neurea, six times a week, for one
year only.
Southern Roads.
1. Railway Station and Post Offlc, Goulburn, three
or four times a day.
2. Golspie and Leighwood, two or three times a
week, for two years only.
3. Murrumbateman and Nanama, twice a week.
4. Bankin’s Springs and Wallandry, via Burathra,
Malonga, and Nariah, once or twice a week.
5. From Tharwa to Boo'oomba, Ororal. and Gud-
genby, to Nass, returning to Tharwa from
Nass, once a week.
6. The Rock and Narrandera, via Bu lien bong,
Mimosa, and Glllenbah, once a week.
7. From Ulcy to Warri, Bygoo, Holera, and Yal-
gogrin Stations, returning to TJiey, once a
week, for one year only.
8. Darlington Point and Hay, travelling on the
South side of the river, once, twice, or thrice
a week.
Northern Roads.
1. Bulahdelah, Boolambayte, Bungwall Flat, and
Forster, via M'Rae’s Sawmills and Burruduo,
once or twice a week.
2. Bulahdelhah, Upper Myall, Firefly Creek,
Clarkson’s Crossing, Tinonee, and Taree, via
Bunyah Station and Waterloo, once a week,
for two years only.
3. Gresford, Allynbrook, Halton, and Bccleston,
three times a week.
4. Muswellbfook. Denman, Giant’s Creek, Qungil,
and Merriwa, six times a week.
5. Merriwa, Bow, and Cassllls, three or four times
a week (Tenders to speclry a price for a coach
as welt as for a horseback service).
8. Kempsey, Froderickton, Clybucca, Nambuooa,
Deep Creek, Fernmount. and Boat Harbour,
three times a week, by coach or on horseback;
with a branch mall to and from Nambucoa
and Numbucea Heads, via Thomas Davis’s
Sawmills, and the Lower Nambucca, three
times a week, on horseback.
7. Millie, Moroe, Currlgundi, and Benarba, one©
a week.
8. Walchaßoad Post Office and Glen Morrison, via
Surveyor’s Creek Station, Aberbaldie, and
Ingleba, once a week.
9. Coraki, Codrington, Tatham, South Casino, and
Casino, twice a week.
10. Tumbulgum, Oudgen, and Brunswick, once a
week.
W. J. TRIOKBTT.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 7th November, 1886.
TENDERS FOR ADDITIONS.
TENDERS are invited for additions to the Pub-
lic School, at Clifton (Coalciitf).
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction. Sydney, and at the
Clifton Public School, on application to the
Teacher.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Additions, Clifton
Public School,” must be lodged with the Acting
TTnder-Secretary, Department of Public Instruc-
tion, at or before 10 o’clock a.m., on Wednesday.
28th November, 1883.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender.
G. H. REID,
JEWELLERY, JEWELLERY. JEWELLERY
CASH SALH.
EXTENSIVE ALTERATION TO PREMISES.
LANK & FAIRFAX, 23 Hunter-street.
beg to Inf rm their customers and the public that
they are now offering their carefully-selected
Stock at a Reduction of 26 per cent.
Five Shilings in the Pound taken off plain marked
previous prices.
N.B —As Christmas is doss at hand, the opportu-
nity should not be missed of purchasing Intended
gifts.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal —“ Cloches de Corneville ”.. p. 8.
Opera House—“ Diplomacy ” ib.
Mr. Arthur Vivian has, it would seem not
only a discretion beyond his years—which are not
numerous—but a spirit of enterprise which might
possibly be considered in advance of his experience,
which is only just beginning to be extensive. Mr.
Vivian is a funny young gentleman, who comes on
with a low comedy nose and very tight trousers,
and—in the character of Simon Punkin, in “ Neck
tor Neck,” at the Gaiety—sings comic songs rather
cleverly, and displays light comedy powers of a
mirth-provoking nature. We believe that when
Mr- Arthur Vivian has learned a great deal and
unlearned a very great deal he will be as capable of
making as emphatic a mark in the theatrical
annals of this decade as we, at the present time, are
proficient in leaving a passing Indication of our
notice on a plate of pea-soup, it may be said that
without Arthur “Neck for Neck” would be
a supplioe ; and indeed there is, under any circum-
stance, a lot of this element in it anyhow. A state-
ment on our part which will necessitate a run on
the sixpenny Anglo-French ones which have long
been forlornly fluttering in their gin-cases in
Castlereagh- street.
• • •
■ “Neck for Neck” was originally pro-
duced in America by John Stetson, with whose
company both Arthur and his wife performed.
Mrs. Helen V. is a stout lady in a fair wig, and her
performance of Carrie Freeland is a comfortable
one, since the beholder can, at once, see that,
amidst all her troubles, she has never neglected
the daily devastation of her “little nine.” When
She haughtily reproaches the murderer, you think
involuntarily of sandwiches and chablls; and when
her heart-felt sympathy is poured upon the rugged
breast of the ill-used Byers, there is conjured up
In your Imagination, somehow—why, we really
can’t explain—a vision of beef-steak pudding
(hot).
• • *
Jenny, the servant-girl, is played by Miss
Eugenie Horan, to whom is relegated the task
(somewhat to the disappointment of the gallery)
of cutting down the moral but ancient Byers.
Miss Horan has got the hang of her part in a sur-
prising manner, and looks on ne pent mieux in a
striped red and white muslin dress, a 6-lnch apron,
and thin No. 3's—which has been the costume of a
theatrical chambermaid from time immemorial.
Miss Jenny, In bringing down the body, brought
down the house, and scored quite a success; though
It is to be regretted that she weds and keeps a
gander-farm with Simon Punkin iu the last act;
thus, at one fell swoop, demolishing all the hopes
of the critics. Mr. Byers is Robust, with a big R.,
as the injured Innocent: and Mr. Meredith looks
picturesque as the Down-Easter who wasn’t killed
in the train. Mr. Thynne enacts a villain of a
“creepy” character with a vividness that was
blood-curdling, and the rest are so-so.
» ♦ •
The company, it is said, are to play the
Marble Heart,” and other pieces, before leaving
us. This is a good hearing. What w ; want to
know is, though, why they should ever leave us.
“Neck for Neck ’ has drawn a big crowd every
night. For this reason our modest query.
** * *
’"’The wheel of the Sydney Royal people has
made another revolution, and “Les Cloches de
Corneville” is the result. Relying upon the fact
of the schoolmaster being abroad, and confident
in his own linguistic powers, the intrepid Mus-
grove has not thought it worth while to translate
the title of Planquette’s opera for the benefit of
those not so highly cultured as he. This proceed-
ing on his part has had the effect, we hear, of
creating “confusion dire” in some circles—one
Member of Parliament (so we get it) having re-
marked, after seeing the piece, that though there
seemed to be a brimstone lot of bells in Corne-
ville, not one sulphurous clock was visible.
♦ ♦ *
“Les Cloohes” is picturesquely put on.
And there was supposed to be an additional in-
terest centred in the performance, owing to the
debut in Sydney of Mr. H. Taylor, an exceedingly
broad low comedian, whom Mr. Arthur Garner
has imported from the London Surrey Theatre.
Mr. Taylor enacts the part of the Bailey (we are
quoting this week’s Shroud), and, in the second
scene he got, we regret to chronicle, what is a
natural appurtenance to Taylors—the goose. Mr.
Taylor having only, so to speak, Just arrived, did
not probably know that we cannot stand twenty-
live minutes of ancient “business” in order to
allow him to try conclusions with Mr. Wallace,
we are bound to state, with as eternal gag of
Certainly not,” ended t y being nearly as big a
bore as Mr. Taylor. It must not be thought, how-
ever, because the audience exercised le droit de
Kffler that Mr. Taylor is a bad actor. He is not a
had actor— et puis voild.
m m •
Miss Fanny Liddiard was put up for the
nrst time in Sydney as Germaine. We could sym-
Da « t 8 .6 with a management if it put Miss Fanny un
as L’Africainc”—or “Lady Macbeth for she is
°J surpassing loveliness. As Germaine you see more
her than you did when she enacted the role (stale
mis !) of Gnolet, and it is the general opinion we
believe (we are told this, for these matters interest
us but little since the christening of No. s—a fine
noy) that it would be difficult to see too much of
Miss Fanny. Such is the affection the public have
wltu 188 Biddlard, that, if she sang like a sawmill
with a mad dog barking next door and a free fight
at the corner. Sydney would applaud her. Well,
ni 88 _?• 8in k s better than this, but so sharp,
win® i. * eßa ’ that when we go out sketching we
uv. t* lo loan °f her voice in order to save the
Nom o de °f ° ur no w eighteenpenny one. Mlss
Stewart was commonoably vivacious
Serpolette, but her vivacity taken in
r p° tra dißtinction to her singing conjured up
TOi? r j in tho minds of those who love her (and
ao does not?) that the music of the opera had
or neon manufactured expressly to her order.
v 8 a matter of fact, both Miss Nellie and Miss
a au *W aave a peck of natural talent, but, as they
to ow both in the place where they are demanded
»p ** a ,kreat deal and act a very gi eat deal, they
' P or haps, apt, at times, to be overweighted—
m Pugn it whoso list.
Mr. Vernon got the first (and almost the
only) encore In his opening song as the Marquee,
and was (notwithstanding an occasional facial
flavour of Bunthorne) extremely diverting. But
the honours of the piece were carried off by Kelly,
as Q as par d. This is really a piece of character
acting which deserves to be singled out because it
is consistent In its dramatic power. Mr. Kelly was
the recipient of much applause, and got, besides,
a special call. This ought to be a throw in for the
shoemakers, for it will necessitate, at any rate,
another two inches hon the ’eel.” There, Edwin I
* ♦ * *
Ernelie Melville and the Majeronls have
been emplojing the Melbourne Cup week to show
country visitors what they have been doing during
the past season. In the Princess’s, there is a change
of programme every night, and, from “Glrofl<S
Girofla to La Belle Helene,” Ernelie walks In all
her beauty. As the “twins” in the former, she
made her debut in Melbourne many years ago. The
Majeronls alternate “The Woman of the People”
with Jealousy,” with a slight leaning to Marie,
as Herr Bandmann has vacated the not very lucky
Victoria Hall. The “ Silver King ” and “ Manteaux
Noirs ” are still at it.
* * * *
Hudson’s Theatre has changed its name to
the Lyceum, and Mr. Fleming Norton, who carries
a great fame with him from London, is giving
some amusing characterisations there His mimicry
is extremely good, and about a couple of his
female personations there is a deal of humorous
veracity. He owns a limp, adaptable body, and
a light volatile mind ; and, as his characters are
supposed to represent figures In a picnic party, he
is just up to the measure of the occasion. The
Federal Minstrels seem not to have been worked
. as they are now in the Victoria
Hall with all their steam up. They have improved
on old times, but have succeeded in giving nothing
that takes better with the audience than the
famous clog-dance.
* * * *
The Town Hall has been engaged for four
nights, to give the people an opportunity of hear-
ing the Duvalli “ Shilling Concerts.” The title is not
very intelligible, seeing that the prices are 3s. and
2s. as well as Is. M. Poussard, the violinist, is the
great attraction of the entertainment, and, con-
sidering reasonable expectations, 100 guineas
a night was a large sum to guarantee to him.
Not but that he is worth it absolutely, for his ren-
dering throughout, especially in the “Alsatian
Mountains,” and two or three oth;;r things, left
nothing to be desired; but we hope that Melbourne
will prove that a performance only requires to be
first-class to secure it patronage of a profitable
kind.
* * * *
The “People’s Concerts” go on every
Saturday night at Melb. Temperance Hall, and are
as varied in quality as in composition. It is impossi-
ble to tell from their advertisements what they
are going to play, and when they have done it is
almost as impossible to tell what they have played.
Yet the house Is always full, and everyone seems
pleased. Isn’t it a wonder that a good ballet corps
doesn’t come round ? The little snatch one gets of
K in our opera bouffe is only a whetstone.
There s a chance here for somebody.
« « « •
With commercial things we do not meddle,
Yet Adonis Verdi’s filed his sheddle.
We often told him that he’d rue It—
“ Brilllantlne” was bound to do it.
We know some eyes that will grow dim—
Some soft blue eyes—because of him I
Just call a sale. They'll buy the clocks
From off thy tinted silken socks;
They'll buy for gold and jewels rare
Strands of thy beauteous golden hairl
And thy shoes would go passing dear—
The boating season is just here.
* * * •
Perhaps next to “Fedora,” of which we
have heard so much and seen nothing, Sardou's
“ Dora ” (“ Diplomacy ”) is the most powerful and
artistic comedy-drama that the great Victorien
has written. A great deal of its success, from a
literary point of view, In its English dress, is owing
to the masterly manner in which it has been
adapted by Messrs. Clement Scott and C. H.
Stephenson—gentlemen who choose to masquerade
under the pseudonyms of Saville and Bolton Howe.
But. clever as the play is—redundant as it is with
sparkling dialogue and with masterly situations-
if badly acted, the piece would become an Intoler-
able infliction after the| first few moments of its
representation. As presented at the Opera House
last Saturday, “ Diplomacy ” was little short
of a great success; and this was in a great
measure owing to the surprisingly vivid
conception Miss Maggie Knight has formed of the
part of the much-suspected daughter of the Mar-
quise de Rio Zares. Miss Knight’s performance
There is often a good deal of discussion as to the
intrinsic value of medals won at the colonial exhibi-
tions, and it is often correct to assume that very
many of these awards are of small value either way.
But there can be no doubt as to the merit of the
great prize which Messrs. J. and J. J. Marshall, of
the Paddington Brewery, won at our great Inter-
national Exhibition in 1879-80 for their exhibit of
ales. The medal, which Is of pure gold, is nearly
the size of the ordinary bronze, and Is of real solid
value, and as worthily commemorates a great
exhibition as it perpetuates a great victory. The
accompanying sketch gives some idea of the cha-
racter of the medal, the design and workmanship
in the original being of no less excellence than our
artist depicts. The contest which resulted In this
presentation to the Messrs. Marshall will long be
remembered, and the award of what was fitly de-
scribed as the champion prize (gold medal)
was of the fullest significance. The award
was for the best pale ale ; and even the
trade themselves who were not successful gave
to the Paddington Brewery the highest meed of
praise for the excellence of its exhibits. Alto-
gether, the Messrs. Marshall have taken sixteen
medals, and eighteen first-class certificates, for
bulk and bottled ale and porter. A look through
the brewery Just now shows that the firm are by
no means inclined to rest on their laurels. Having
introduced the very latest appliances and greatly
extended their premises on a plan to Immensely
facilitate work, they are now brewing ales and
porters which cannot fairly bo surpassed In all
Australia. There is hardly a foot of space lost In
the whole premises. The cellars, which are on the
old unsurpassable plan, are very cool, and are full
up with hogsheads of be >r and por'er in the vari-
ous stages of preparation. The plan adopted for
the heating of water, the filtration, or the re-uae
was, it is no figure of speech to say, a peculiarly
powerful delineation of one of the most difficult
roles in modern comedy, and it is Impossible not to
detect, in this surprisingly sudden improvement of
her art, the rigorous schooling she has undergone
at the hands of her manager, and the great in-
dustry she has displayed in the study of the part.
We do not wish to institute any comparisons be-
tween Miss Maggie’s reading of the role of Dora and
those of the ladies who have previously played it in
Sydney; but we have only to express our opinion
that the present exponent of the part at the
Opera House his nothing whatever to fear from
any Thespian sister who has preceded her.
*>• •
A little less striking was the imperso-
nation of the Countess Zicka by Miss Mary Cary—a
recent pretty importation from “the Fourth
Avenue Theatre, New York, and the Boston
Theatre;’’ but Mr. Wybert Reeve played Henry
Beauclerc with all ills old verve aud finesse, Mr.
Geoige Forbes tried hard to give a satisfactory
rendition (alas I) of Orloff, but whatever dramatic
power he may possess is not sufficiently matured
to enable him to present the part in a manner even
faintly bordering on the artistic; and this is to be
the more regretted because the whole plot of the
play may be said to hinge upon the proceedings of
the exiled Russian. Mr. Herbert Flemmlng'was
admirably suited with the role of Captain
Beauclerc, and, in his great scene in the
second act, extracted quite a little ovation
from the audience. Even from the male
section. The lady contingent always applaud
Mr. Flemming. And doubtless when his pink ear
rests upon his snow-white pillow, he says—as in-
deed does Arthur Vivian when encored for one of
his ditties every night— 11 1 deserve it ’ Miss Ethel
Adele looked surprisingly spruce as Lady Fairfax,
and spoke with that clear and rhythmic intonation
which we remember to have heen the especial
gift of a lady who taught us, years ago, at school in
Victoria—
“ A was an archer who shot at a frog,
B was a butcher that had a big dog.”
• •
All the rest were even, if not brilliant;
and “ Diplomacy” should have—and we hope for
the Intelligence of the theatre-going community
and the benefit, of course, of W. J. W., that
it will have—along and prosperous run.
** * *
It is with heartfelt grief that we record
the distressing fact that the Academy of Music is
once more closed. The Howard-Simmons com-
bination finished up on Saturday night with “Ten
Nights in a Bar-room,” and gloom once more en-
shrouds the temple once rendered a monument of
light in this city by the champion light-weight of
Tamatave. By the way, it was announced some
time ago that Mr. Augustus (Hover—Great in a
double sense—erstwhile with Bandmann, was to
travel, starring, with Howard and Harry; but now
it is advertised that Mr. G. has a combination of
his own, and is prepared to show “in his own
pieces ” in or near Sydney. Augustus is a capital
actor, and could dangle a man of ordinary size
with ease upon his watch-chain. And we must
tell you that Pomeroy is stated by the N.Z. papers
to act now better than ever. Let’s see—it’s a
good while now ; and you couldn’t reasonably
expect—not that we would venture to—but under
such circumstances—yes; and the young Blondln
by the name of L’Bstrange has been on a rope and
in a balloon at Bathurst; and we regret to hear
that the Magnetic Lady has been losing her
temper at Temora. Yes.
* •
And mark. Ada Ward recently said to a
N. Y. Dramatic News man :— 11 I’ve been three
times round the world, taking my companies with
me to Australia.” Oh I The first time we saw
Ada she was one of a company; the next time
poor little Fischer was the whole of her company;
and the third time her star dramatic support was
Charles the Wrestler, who, however talented a
performer, could scarcely be said to have been
an imported “pro.” And they write in the Eng-
lish papers that since Miss Portescue married Lord
Gumboil, JBIO.OOO worth of her photos, have been
sold; and they further write, in the Gundaqai
Herald this time, that Mr. and Mrs. Ogden and
little Beverley (not to mention our old friend
Arthur Rodney) have been trotting out the
“Woman of the People” (who must really begin
to be tired) in that salubrious village, to the great
Joy of the Gundaqai Elwobthy, whose critique
of the piece recalls to our recollection those noble
notices which at one time attracted so much
ferocious attention to the Rum.
*• » •
While Frank Heywood, the pianist of
Wilmott’s Combination Troupe, was blowing down
the barrel of a gun in Otago, Simmonds, another
of the “ Combination,” held a lighted match to the
nipple. Then the gun took up the blowing, and
poor Heywood fell into the ranks of that ever-
increasing army whose first soldier Abel took the
shilling so long ago at the agricultural show out-
side the village or Eden.
in one way or another is unique, and can only have
been hit upon after years of observation. But this
principle of labour-saving and expedition is obser-
vable from top to bottom of the brewery; observ-
able in the storage and transit of the water,
observable at the mashing and fermenting vats,
the boilers, the refrigerators, the mills, the
cooling rooms, the cleansing yards—in fact
everywhere, to the great saving of time
and labour, and the increase of out-nut which
could hardly be thought possible. The double
principle of cooling is adopted at the Paddington
Brewery—the natural process first, and then by
the refrigerators—two of those In use being on
the very latest principle. The best Tasmanian
hops (which, by the way, according to the London
press, are now greatly prized in England), and the
finest material generally, with the best filtered
water, are used for the brewing, and one of the
brothers—Mr. James Marshall—personally super-
intends the whole work hiras«lf. The greatest
possible difficulty is experienced by the firm to
meet demands. The consumption of Marshall’s
gold medal ale is very great in the metropolis
alone: but there are the coast towns, from the
Manning down to Kiama, and some of the inland
and railway towns have to be provided for, all
which test to the utmost the capabilities of the
brewery. A large bottling trade is done, but the
great out-put is, of course,ithe running ale. There
are cooperage works, and fine stabling on the
premises. The view from the tower of the
brewery embraces a panorama of twenty miles —
certainly the finest sight to be seen in the colonies.
The Paddington Brewery has been established
near upon thirty years. The present proprietary
consist of Mr. Joseph Marshall (who does the
financial and commercial work), nnd Mr. James J.
Marshall; and the way in which their trade la
developing shows that this fine property, left to
them by its founder, is not likely to lose its
position for want of energetic and prudential
management.
7ou’ve all heard, of course, that Gilbert
wouldn’t let Mary Anderson (the most beautiful
—d ce—humph I—actress1 —actress in the world, now per-
forming at the London Lyceum) play his Galatea.
For this he is abused by the papers, and writes a
letter to the World whiih is clever enough for
anything. These two or three extracts will give
wea (to a sober person) of the whole of Mr.
8. Gilbert’s quaint communication Suppose
Miss Anderson won’t give me my terms ? Suppose
it don t suit me to have my piece revived for a
week enly ? Suppose lam keeping it back until T
can get a ‘ run ’ out of it ? Suppose I don’t think
the other parts suited to the other members of
Miss Anderson’s company ? Suppose ray dealings
with my own property are matters which concern
me intimately, but which do not concern you in
the least ? . . . And permit me to add that lam
pained and distressed beyond expression at your
supposing me to be capable of an act so mean, so
cowardly, so despicable, so degrading as to decline
to allow anyone who pleases to perform any piece
of mine, anywhere, on any terms he or she may
think proper to determine/’
* * *
Oh, and talking of dramatists, we are in-
formed that Mr. Leopold Jordan has sold an
original play, to be produced in Sydney, at a satis-
factory figure. But we don’t know to whom. Leo
won’t tell us without being assaulted, and our
poker is being repaired after having rid the world
of the manufacturer of “ Lines to a Fading Lily.”
We like the philosophy of the Free Lanoh
tootler who hymns somewhat hlocupplngly a
welcome to New Zealand immigrants “if they are
well to do.” Says this downy boy:—
“ For we have got experience.
And we will take them in;
Then they’ll have our experience.
And we shall have their tin ”
a sentiment which reads like an echo of Castro-
Tichborne-Orton’s proverbial remark about coin
and brains.
THE GLOVE.
A soiled white glove upon the floor,
The green-room floor;
This glove some dainty Duchess wore,
Some Duchess wore.
We picked it up with joy, this glove,
This soiled white glove;
And kept it as a pledge of love,
A pledge of love.
It had an exquisite faint scent,
A faint sweet scent;
Old memories with it were blent.
With it were blent.
“ Ah, shapely hand that wore this glove.
This little glove;
Small hand as white as wing of dove.
As wing of dove.
“ What clasps it now ?” we said—Alas
Alas, alas!
For poor romance—it gripped a glass,
A porter-glass.
“ You drop that glove,” was the reply,
The curt reply.
In muffled accents—muffled by
A mutton-pie.
A SOLID GOLD MEDAL.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Kate Kelly (Ned’s faithful sister) is at
present in the Beeohworth hospital suffering from
consumption, the germs of which were sown dur-
ing the long midnight rides she used to perform in
order to supply the outlaws with food and infor-
mation. Doctors think recovery hopeless.
Poor George Ernest Morrison is returning
from New Gufna with two spear wounds and no
“ copy ” to speak of. In spite of the Age’s “ high
falutln,” we are forced to the conclusion that
G.E.M. is not exactly a Stanley. Armlt didn’t do
much, but, at any rate he was sufficiently “ wide ”
to keep the natives from sticking him.
William Clark has just died in Adelaide,
at the early age of 103 years. He never even
hinted that he fought at Waterloo, did not re-
member either George TV. or Nelson, did not walk
six miles the Sunday before he died, did not retain
his mental faculties to the last, and was altogether
a most remarkable man. Cases like this deserve
more than a passing notice.
Frank Hann, who only recently was
brought back to Adelaide from Sydney charged
with larceny as a bailee, has just been sentenced
to twelve months’ hard labour. Frank was a mer-
chant in Currie-street (trading as Hann and Co.)
for about two years, until business got too brisk
for him, whereupon he suddenly levanted to the
Inhospitable shores of Sydney. Like most good
men, he was a deacon of a church and the superin-
tendent of a Sunday-school.
A Noumea correspondent writes that the
local Freemasons are “at loggerheads.” An acri-
monious warfare has been carried on in the press,
and things have gone so far that one of the highest
officials of the French lodge has challenged the
editor of one of the papers to a duel. The E.C.
have also been slightly mixed up in the affair, but
were restrained from taking any part whatsoever
In the dispute by the timely advice of one of the
oldest English masons in New Caledonia.
The most sensational wager ever made
was between the Duke of Hamilton and Mr.
Henry Chaplin. They were the guests of the Duke
of Beaufort, when, over the wine and walnuts,
Chaplin accepted “two hundred thousand to two
thousand against Hermit,” from the youthful
Duke. However, the host subsequently Insisted
on the wager being cried off. That was in the
plunging era, when feeling ran high between
“ Hastings’ division ” and Mr. Chaplin, and when
the idea of Hermit winning the Derby was scouted
by all save his astute owner and the “ Prime
Minister ” of the stable—Captain Maohell.
The late John Blaxland, the rugged man
of Kent, who protested in the old Legislative
Council against corrupt appropriations and official
tiddlywlnking in high places, doubtless deserved
well of his adopted country; yet for all that, his
only surviving daughter’s claim to have her
father’s home and estate of Newington (recently
purchased by the Government for £4000) presented
to her in recognition of her father’s services, par-
takes of the nature of a “ big order.” It is just
one of the sort of claims her father would have
protested against. The well-to-do Blaxlands
should aid their kinswoman.
The Knight of Clovelly always stands up
for his friends. With him Lucas is guileless as a
cherub; the Land Office muddlers highly accom-
plished officials, whose names any State might be
proud to have in its Blue Book; and Tom of ten
thousand, a Bayard sans reproche. In this Sir John
resembles Agesilaus, who, as Plutarch relates,
could neither correct his friends when they did
amiss, nor deem any service dishonourable which
ho did in the way of friendship. When Nicias got
wrong in his accounts, Agesilaus wrote to the
judgesIf Nicias is Innocent, acquit him; if he
is guilty, acquit him on my account; anyway,
acquit him.” Somewhat similarly. Jack, in the
case of a mate against whom appearances are
strong, argues:—““If his hands ain’t quite clean,
whitewash ’em; if they’re damnably dirty, white-
wash em; anyway, whitewash ’em.’ r
TO THE MEMORY OP JOHN BROWN,
Footman and Cioisbo.
(BY A DISGUSTED LAUREATE.)
[A Fragment.]
These to Brown’s memory, I dedicate.
I consecrate with whines this bathos.
And, Indeed, he seemed to me
Scarce other than pure flunkeydom’s pure type,
Who reverenced his cupboard as his god,
Whose little game was bocketing the perks,
Who served one only (Brown): yet stuck to her—
Her whose unmeasured favour made his pile
Run to five figures. We have lost him; he is gone;
We know him now—would we had never known—
How cringing, fawning, spaniel-like he licked
The hand that f ee’d him; while to those mere wise.
Who, on his hints for “vails,” declined to “part,’*
How Insolent, impertinent, and rude I
Rasendranoro, who has just been elected
Queen of Madagascar, is a niece of the late Queen
Ranavalona II. She now takes the name and title
of Ranavalona III. She is about 33 years of age,
and was married to Andrianaly, a young nobleman,
who studied medicine in Edinburgh, where he
took his degree as a Licentiate of the Royal College
of Physicians. The marriage didn’t eventuate
happily. Indeed, Andrianaly is said to have struck
his Royal wife. For this and other supposed
offences (being struck with somebody else), ne was
banished to the fever district south of Fianaran-
troa, in the Betsileo province; but recently he was
recalled to attend the late Queen. He is not,
however, regarded as the husband of the new
Queen. Ranavalona III. possesses pleasing man-
ners (when she likes, and, according to Andrianaly,
she occasionally doesn’t like) and a dignified bear-
ing. Her policy will no doubt be that of her
predecessor.
Mr. H. Byron Moore, whom all the world
knows as the secretary of the V.R.O., is not
naturally a vain man. If he were, he would now
announce an Intention to go round the world with
a show, or to enter the church as a fashionable
divine. In either case he would make money, and
in the latter would soothe beauty and make the
gradient to holiness suited to the paces of the
most languid grace. He was the Cup. When he
marched by the fence every eye on the lawn was
turned beamingly, thankingly upon him. When
he climbed into the committee-room, there were
silence and sadness. When the blue and white cap
appeared on the back of Martini-Henry, and Sweet
William stepped along the sward under his Impost
of maroon, there was a slight diversion of the
Saze, but gradually the eyes veered around until
hey focused the great secretary, with his back
against a post, and then rested there, fed there,
swooned there. Sun-tanned men from the bush,
sitting with their legs across on the top of the
Stand, looked down and sighed. “ Ha,” muttered
one of them, forgetting for a while the couple of
hundred he had put on Calms, and would never
see again, “such chances 1 such chances!” But
Byron Moore was unconscious.
One finds oneself often longing to have
a run home to Yurrope. All the splendours of a
Southern metropolis fail to satisfy one’s cravings
when the vista of human bliss opens up. It opened
up the other day in Gunsler’s CafA 6. A. Syme
drank champagne with his eyes turned towards
the chalk cliffs of Dover, and his glass bobbing
against those of Dow and Pearson. In his sojourn
in the sunny south, not half as many heard of the
existence of G. A. Syme as should have. For
twenty years he has piloted the Leader, and
during the early part or that time especially the
pilot’s office was no sinecure. To think of all the
Victorian mud he has seen, sent down in parcels
by farmers wanting to know what sort of crop
would grow best in it! To think of all the agri-
cultural shows he had to keep duly posted, and so
handle as to make each think that its exhibition
was a boon to the colony, and contained a fund of
information for a far-off posterity 1 Well, it’s all
over now for twelve months, and George is off to
Yurrope. He’s oped, of course. So is everybody
from that quarter. But he could think a bit, when
no one was looking at him. Bon voyage I
And they are all baok once more, and the
American farmers have peace at last. Mr. T. K.
Dow wa» the last of them. His great brother had
rushed the prairies, had gorged himself with the
fruits of knowledge along the slopes of the Missis-
sippi, and had come home to Collins-street to
digest. He had a stomachful of riotous winds,
and through his daily and weekly organs the re-
sounding clamour of his ti avail was carried to the
hut of the free selector, and the gunyah of the
squatter, even to the skirts of the inhospitable
Mallee. He was a terrible spectacle in Collins-
street, where the people were interested in the
results of agriculture and grazing only to the ex-
tent of cooked carrots and boiled mutton; and as
he twisted and curled in tortuous writhlngs with
the mass of facts he had swallowed, many eyes
were full of sympathy. The Argus is more
thoughtful of the citizens’ feelings. It will not
afflict the town community with the spectacle of
the suffering T. K. It will send him into the back
blocks to do all his “ torture” among the class for
which he is in pain. T. K. Dow is getting ready to
travel round Victoria: and Instead of groaning in
Collins-street, he will pour out his complaint in
the form of lectures to the farmers. As the lec-
tures will be gratis, and the Argus will pay the
traveUlng expenses, Melbourne feels happy.
If Mr. Monoure Conway saw much to ad-
mire in the appearances of the people who filled
Flemington with life on Cup day, many of the
people also saw much to admire in the appearance
of Mr. Conway. There was reciprocity, of a kind.
The “brightest Intellect in the Southern hemi-
sphere ” carries about considerably big bones, with
only a small raiment of flesh; and the eyes through
which the “ gigantic force ” looks are loaded with
arresting qualities. A little knot of people bab-
bling artlessly about their favourites would find
themselves all it once confronted with the mys-
terious presence. A tall man with a junk of grey
beard hanging from his chin, and light grey whis-
kers creeping down worn cheeks, would place him-
self like a statue before them, and. with his hands
behind his back, would leisurely run his keen eye
from one to another of the group. This generally
knocked the group out of talk. Furtively, and
sometimes with a little apprehension, they would
peep up at the apparition and wonder what the
scrutiny meant. They never guessed that he was
making up his “ Cup ” article for the morning
Irnper. A few took him for a detective, and some,
n tones that were not precisely a whisper, referred
to the “old party” as a guy. One lassie went so
far as to wink at the majestic eye of the philo-
sophical sketch-writer. But the philosophical
sketch-writer did not know its import, for he was
just then thinking how the mischief Australians
can swallow all the praise they get.
Poor Deniehy, one of the most gifted and
unfortunate of all Australia’s sons, is to be at last
remembered, Mr. Dailey, we believe, having
generously undertaken to erect a fitting monu-
ment to the great man’s memory. Something like
twenty years ago Denlehy dropped dead in the
streets of Bathurst, and but for the kindness of a
§oor working man named Butler he would have
een bundled into a pauper’s grave. As it was, the
brilliant essayist had to be buried in unconsecrated
ground, because he neglected his “jewty,” and
the money which he should have donated to buy
silk frocks and faldheradals for the “ Vargin’s
statchews” poor Denlehy spent on whisky. And
therefore his poor dead form wasn’t fit to even
rot in the same paddock with that of Michael
Muldoon or Tirince M'Goggirty (Gad-rist-thelr-
sowls), who, although they plundered the poor and
robbed and swindled all their lives, had still the
nous to leave enough gilt to the “ clargy” to tip
Heaven’s janitor and pass them along to a box
seat in Paradise. Speaking of Do Qulncey, poor
Denlehy said: “Oh sad I sad I the life-story of this
grandly-endowed being—this man so gifted as
seldom, in aU the ages, God gives to His creatures
powers so exquisite and so vast, and capacities of
suffering co-equal in their exquisiteness and
vastness.” Eheu! How easy it is to see the rock
on which others split, but how hard to keep from
the same ourselves.
Mr. Monoure D. Conway, after a flying
visit to Tasmania, got back to Melbourne ou
Sunday, the 4th instant, and proceeded on that
night to give, in the Opera House, the first of his
valedictory addresses, under the auspices of the
Australian Secular Association. He cnose for his
subject, “ Demonology and Devil Lore,” and those
acquainted with the direction of the lecturer’s
studies were justified in anticipating a discourse
of a rather unique character. The worst indict-
ment of the acoustic properties of the Athenaeum
is found In the fact that Mr. Conway, who was
heard so badly there, was heard fully in the Opera
House, where the space is tenfold greater and the
audience was twentyfold more numerous. Mr.
Conway’s voice is of alight, clear, and moderately
musical tone, with a compass of not more than
three or four notes, and a consequent tendency to
be monotonous in effect. His emphasis are intro-
duced with extreme frequency, and amount almost
to an unpleasant mannerism. For instance, if he
had to make, as in effect he did make, use of the
words, “ The devil was originated by man’s fear of
the unknown , survives through man’s fear of the
unknown, and will go on living while man fears
the unknown,” he would follow very much the
ita'ics here given. This jerkiness of delivery is
supplemented by a corresponding jerkiness of
head and shoulders, and the result is that when
the matter is not of sufficient moment to absorb
all your attention, and this indeed happens occa-
sionally, the manner distracts you. His matter,
however, is essentially at variance with his
manner, and on the night in question was little
more than an essay, which he had carefully written
out before him. If we say that his mind is of the
Darwinian school, we mean it to be understood
that it delights in the accumulating of a miscel-
lany of facts, fables, and anecdotes, and in the
assorting and classifying them under heads which
carry him further on in his one purpose. The
most out-of-the-way, as well as the most obvious
things, are laid hold of, wort'less as at first
inspection most of them would seem to anyone
but himself, and are so artistically fitted into the
system he is weaving that you afterwards regard
them as parts of the system from the beginning.
Take a couple of his anecdotes, or a couple of his
fables, and they have no beauty of their own, and
are not worth the trouble of rehearsing. As
likely as not they are trite, and belong to the
nursery epoch, yet as parts of the texture of his
discourse you recognise how indispensable they
are for covering it all along. It is needless to say
that Mr. Conway acquired his knowledge of
Demonology, and came to his conclusions upon
the subject, in other lands ; but it is characteris-
tic of him that he has found in bis short visit to
Australia, among the customs and beliefs of the
Aborigines, corroborations of many of the ele-
ments of the knowledge he had long ago amassed.
While, however, we call this characteristic of Mr.
Conway’s acquisitiveness, we do not think it an
effective addition to his materials for conquering
the prejudices of an Australian community. The
present writer should know a great deal about
the Aborigines, having had them about him for
years, and knowing themselves and their camps
better than he knows the Secular Association or
the Opera H ouse, and he felt that Mr. Conway’s
deductions from their customs and beliefs were
very logical only if the major premiss, that Is,
the existence of such customs and beliefs were
first demonstrated Beautiful figments have of
course been put in circulation, and as such they are
not without entertaining qualities and some sug-
gestiveness; but to take them up as weapons by
whose help an old creed is to be destroyed, is to
inspire some people to avoid the edge of weapons
made of genuine metal. Mr Conway was fully
convinced that there is no personal devil, and to a
large section of his audience the conviction was
before that night an article of faith ; hut that the
effect of his discourse, taking it altogether, was to
shift the devil out of the mind of anyone who
went there enjoying the luxury of this great
belief, can hardly be asserted.
The election of William Henry Groom to
be Speaker of the Queensland Legislative Assem-
bly is one of the most remarkable incidents in
Australian political history. Groom is a man in
whom cunning and persistency are so highly
developed as to be very effectual" substitutes for
genuine talent. We prefer to commence the mans
history only twenty years back. Groom has been
longer a member of the Queensland Assembly than
any man now in the Assembly of that colony, and
is fond of styling himself the Father of the House.
We observe that his election to the Speakership
has evoked severe comment in the chamber, and
that members who voted against him commented
freely on his'antecedents, and that the mortified
Premier—to whom Groom's election was practically
a defeat—has declared that he would decline to sit
under and submit to the ruling of the new
Speaker. Although the election of Groom does
certainly constitute a degradation of the high and
honourable post of Speaker, Mr. MTlwraith is
scarcely entitled to throw the first stone. The rea-
son of that serves, curiously enough, to Intensify
the moral, or immoral, of the whole business. About
live years ago, when the Liberals, who are now
carrying Groom on their thick-skinned shoulders
aa thoy march Into power, were succumblmr
M Ilwralth'a attacks, the usual “ ratting ” mani
tested itself, and Groom was one of the foreinn«f
in making terms with the coming men. Plausihlo
active, politically unscrupulous, and a master
the petty arts which popularize a local memho,
with voters, Groom had worked up great influent
in all the Darling Downs constituencies, and hns
actually organized a Darling Downs political bunoh
who were to get whatever concessions they (in.
manded as their reward for backing up the M‘Tl
wraith party. Groom was the heart and soul nf
this league, and it was largely owing to his ever
tions that Pat Perkins, a local brewer and Koman
Catholic, got a seat. Groom’s reward was—accord
ing to his understanding—to be a portfolio I Ro
was, as he believed, to be Minister for Lands
Judge, then, of his fury when he found himsplf
outwitted by M‘llwralth-a far cleverer man than
himself—who by a neat stroke of diplomacy pared
his claws by the same stroke which disposed him to
tearwith them. M'llwraith made Perkins Minister
for Lands, thus splitting up the Darling Downs
“bunch ” by introducing discord among its mem
bers. Asa sop Groom was offered the OhairmaDshin
of Committees, and it is not apparent how M‘li.
wraith,who made that offer, can take the virtuously
indignant role of a purist when Groom is mada
Speaker. In the first heat of his resentment Groom
intimated that he wouldn't have the Chairmanship
and although the intimation was not a formal one
the new Ministry jumped at it with an alac.ltv
which he had not reckoned on, and actually put
forward another candidate. The whole business was
fiercely discussed in the Assembly at the time, and
Groom was savagely denounced as a traitor by the
Liberals who now adopt him. and jeered at as a
fellow who had outwitted himself by bis co-con.
spirators. The Hon. John Douglas, the then out-
§oing Premier, made just such references to
room’s antecedents as the opposite party have
now been making. The whole history furnishes
an instructive and enlightening political episode
But meanwhile Groom is Speaker and Queensland
moralists will be able to point out his success to the
rising generation, and Impress upon them the
lesson that the highest positions are attainable
to any energetic lad who will but cultivate the
qualities of—but here we stop.
At the dinner given by the Savage Club
London, to Barry Sullivan, the menu was*a series
of happy thoughts and pleasant quips associating
Shakespeare with something more substantial than
glowing words and thoughts inspired, and it
joggled along in this wise
Menu.
“ Better cheer may you have, but not with better
heart.’—Comedy of Errors.
Salmon.
“ Sweet fish.”—Cymbeline.
Salmon Mayonnaise.
“ What have we here ? A fish.”—Love’s Labour
Lost.
Richelieu Lobsters.
Lobster Salad.
“My salad days, when I was green in judgment.”—
Antony and Cleopatra.
“ Short-legged Hens.”—Henry IV.
(Boast and Boiled.)
“ There is cold meat.”—Cymbeline.
“ A piece of beef and mustard.’’—Taming of the
Shrew.
“Baked meats.”—Romeo and Juliet.
Beef and la Presse.
“ What’s this Taming of the Shrew.
Ham-lette (i.e. a Little Ham.)
“ My Lady Tongue.”—Much Ado about Nothing.
Galantine of Veal.
“ Is not veal a calf ?”—Love’s Labour Lost.
Gamester Pie.
“ Sweets to the sweet.”—Hamlet.
Veronese Pastry.
Meringues au Michael Gunn.
Shamrock Jelly.
Creme au Macbeth.
“ Stewed Prunes.”—Measure for Measure.
“ Pippins and Cheese.”—Merry Wives of Windsor.
“ Just so much as you can take on a knife’s point.”
—Much Ado about Nothing.
“A Thousand Salads.”—All’s Well that Ends Well.
“ Drink to the general joy ol the whole table, and
to our dear friend.”—Macbeth.
* • •
Rev. Julian Tenison-Woods is safe The
article in the World, entitled “ A Chieftain to the
Antipodes Bound,” bears the very strongest inter-
nal evidence of having been written by Archibald
Forbes—John Walker, aged 93, a Waterloo
veteran, has died in Mount Eden Gaol, Auckland
■N.Z.), while under committal for vagrancy. He
was born in India in 1791, consequently was one of
the first English-born subjects of the British
Crown in India. He was in the colony in 1810....
John Tait celebrated his 68th birthday on Monday,
the 6th November Charles Henry Leal, many
years editor of the Sentinellb de Meurice, has
passed in his checks, and gone home, we presume,
to the land of the leal At Sir William Morgan's
funeral, Saul Samuel was not present. He sent a
letter of apologv. Whereto? This is the kind of
rot sent us per cable A beautiful funeral was
that of Miss Logan, eldest daughter of Mrs. Tyson,
on Tupra stration. Six young men carried the
coffin, and six young girls, wearing wreaths and
carrying flowers, followed it, all clothed in pure
white The three or four Italians who live in
New Caledonia are happy in having an Italian
Consul who is a Belgian, and an Italian Vice-
Consul who is an Englishman.. One of the oldest
colonists of New Caledonia has passed in his checks.
At one time he employed many white people, and
althoug i a Chinaman, he was much respected, for
he was liberal, and always gave to the needy. He
owned several racehorses, which ruined him. He
then commanded sailing vessels for several years.
The funeral rites were performed by a Protestant
clergyman.
• • •
The Rev. Shaw—of Madagascar notoriety
—has many grievances, but two are a head and
shoulders over all the others. One is that he was
fed on the rations of a common French sailor, and
the other that his first examination took place on
a Sunday 1.... Cambridge’s screw as Field-Marshal
Commandlng-in-Chief is £4432; as Colonel of the
Grenadier Guards he draws £2300 per annum. He
is also Colonel of the 17th Lancers, of the Royal
Regiment of Artillery, of the Corps of Royal Engi-
neers, and of the King’s Royal Rifle Corps (old
60th), for each of which corps he draws, at least,
£6OO a year; though the military estimates are
devilish close upon the point. Besides above sums,
he draws £13,000 a year from the Civil List; not to
mention various “hundreds,” the pay of several
park rangerships, and other billets held by this
obese pluralist —One George Townsend alleges
that he has found near Old Town Lake, a few miles
from Helena, Arkansas, the bones of Fernandez
de Soto, the Spanish adventurer, who sought for-
tune by following the sun around the earth. The
relics are to be sent to the Smithsonian Institution
at Washington—Sir Evelyn Wood, when in com-
mand of a troop of horse in India during the
mutiny, volunteered to carry important despatches
through a country swarming with armed Sepoys.
Possessing some knowledge of Hindostanee- ’
stained his skin and passed as an itinerant ha ‘ •
Stumbling on a camp of the enemy he was ar-
rested and examined, out allowed a tent for him-
self during the night When night came he cut
the despatches out of bis turban, and, digging a
hole in the ground with his pen-knife, placed them
there, and lay down. By and bye, some of the
mutineers stole in quietly and ransacked his traps,
but, finding nothing there more criminating than
some packets of thread and cotton balls, he was
suffered to go unmolested next morning. Had
the despatches been found, it is probable he would
have been detained.—[Very. Ed.B.]. ...It was in
the drawing-room at Balmoral, with only his aunt
Princess Beatrice for audience, that His Royal
Highness Prince Albert Victor was inducted with
the “ most ancient, noble, and honourable order
of the Garter. Honi mil —we forget the remainder,
but ill-natured people at home are thinking all
sorts of things about the whole affair.. .. An
American lady thus describes Langtry:—“Mrs.
Langtry is a most remarkable woman. On a fine
complexion, a good head of hair, a gash of a
mouth, large wholesome teeth, a bust as flat as a
Boston cracker, very ugly arms, abnormally big
hands and feet, absurdly slender and nubby-kneed
legs, a very shamble of a walk, a violently cpr-
setted waist, she has established! a reputation for
beauty almost divine.”
No. I.
“Oh! Mr. Parsifal, save, O save my hat.”
Mr. Parsifal : “Alas, Miss, I cannot swim in my walking clothes, and I believe
it is against the rules to”


BRIEF MENTION.
“Whom the gods love, die young.” Ac-
cording to Australian statistics, clergymen live to
an average of 06 years.
Friday’s Evening News speaks of an “ un-
fortunate accident.” A fortunate accident only
happens when an old man “ tumbles down ” and
leaves a few hundred thousand pounds to be
whacked between his heirs.
The Stuart Government were known as
“ the Dining-out Administration.” Now, for three
very excellent reasons, they are known as “ the
Marrying Ministry.” Moral: Never dine out.
According to a par. reprinted in the S.M.
Herald, the development of the cranium which
follows cultivation is attended with a shrinking
in and weakening of the jaws, till there is not
room for the teeth. A bad look out for the cul-
tured, by gum 1
On the Cup Day, an empty whisky-bottle
was found near the Boort railway line, Koorong
Vale. Nothing strange about that, of course; but
by the side of the bottle lay the lifeless form of a
travelling journalist. Poor fellow I He was bottle-
fed as a babe, and he died at his mother’s breast.
He was a Cup Day reporter for sunny New
South Wales, and as he moved aesthetically along
the lawn a blonde beauty in blue nudged a brunette
in brown, and observed, “ What a remarkable-
looking man I” “ Yes,” replied the other, “ and he
ought to make a good match , too—you see he’s
slim and red-headed.”
Mr. Murrant toea the scratch at the Temple
of Justice, Goulburn, a few days ago, to answer to
the charge of being of unsound mind. Constable
Drummond declared he “ arristid th’ phrishinur
because he was waving his hands about and say-
ing foolish things.” If that’s the law, when are we
going to “run In” our political windbags and
“ mutton-headed calves ” ?
Some wise men recently found a fossil jaw
of the Meliothyohanlsaurianthasodendromonthus
Primigemus away down in an old cave. It’s a good
thing for this colony that they didn’t find it in
Auld Reekie; for, if they had, a certain blathering
Scotchman, who “ has the run ” of their columns,
would swear that jaw (which weighs 27 lb. without
the name) belonged to one of his maiden aunts,
and then he’d fill the Rum for a month with lamen-
tations over the degeneracy of the women of the
nineteenth century.
Last Wednesday week a crow perched
ViiTnflftif on a fence at Kiloshiel, Bathurst, and
began to whistle the “ Boyne Water,” with original
variations. This so enraged an Italian farmer
named Mickey Bralligan, that he “tuk” out his
fire-stick, blazed at his feathered insulter, and
blew his own thumb off. Then the crow flew away
with his “kwahl kwahl kwahl” while Mickey
picked up his thumb and tried to fasten it on with
Giant Cement.
Gradus ad Parnassum: Rudisin(nes)diges-
taque mole, a Supreme Court judgment, some-
times: Video meliora D-T-iora sequor, the Rum’s
line of conduct: Te (Calcutta) judice, the only
Inglis: Lex terry, the Betting House Suppression
Act: Hortus siccus, the Hospital garden: Hio(ks)
jacot, Orangeism is a lie: Casus belli, pyjamas:
Detur digniori, give him a dig in the eye, (larri-
kinistically): More suo, like a pig : Labor ipse
voluptas, a demed lie: Duclt amor patriae, Irish
nationalism is the very deuce: Dies non, never say
die: nil nisi cruoe, on the cross.
Parnell does not know Riverina by that
name. He calls it New South Wales. Why?
goodness only knows 1 Paris considers herself
France. There are metropolitans who think
Sydney is Now South Wales ; but to call Riverina
New South Wales does seem quite the height of
absurdity. If Farnell dislikes the term, why
doesn’t he go in for the use of its synonym,
“Mesopotamia.” By his affecting pronunolaion
of that word, it is recorded that George Whitfield
could bring tears into his hearers’ eyes I ’Twould
be a touching picture to see M'Elhone weeping as
James Squire dug up “Mesopotamia” and
launched it with thrilling oratorical effect upon
the collective wisdom of N.B. Wales.
One Michael M‘Donald, of Fitzroy (V), is the
most impatient man we have met. If Michael
bought scrip in a Sandhurst mine at noon, he
would be round at the office before 3, raising Cain
because the company wasn’t ready to pay up a
dividend; and when he invested a shilling in a
church bazaar raffle and drew a guinea set of
» vorses,” he used to sling them against the wall,
and howl with rage, because he didn’t pull off a
Bechsteln piano or a 40-acre farm. But his last
freak puts all the others way back as far as the
seventh century. Last Monday week Mike took
unto himself a bran-new wife, and on Tuesday his
impatience broke out afresh, and began to smoke
and steam like a Java fire-hill, simply because the
prospects of a family seemed as far off as ever.
On Thursday he could contain himself no longer;
so, rushing out, he stole a child two years old from
the front of a Carlton cottage. He is now on a
visit to the Yarra Bend Asylum, and firmly be-
lieves all he wants is a cat-and-dog-like board of
directors and a fat cow, te enable him to hire him-
self out as a foundling hospital.
“ The Government had been commended
for putting all the ten laws into one Bill of 156
clauses and four schedules. Well, he (Sir John
Robertson) put them into a Bill consisting of 105
clauses and one schedule, and he ventured to say
that he did not leave half as many loopholes for
the scamps of the colony to put their fingers in as
the present Ministry had. This Bill occupied 41
pages in the same type and of the same size as his,
and his was in 35 pages—so that here certainly his
had the best of it.” Thus Sir John Robertson,
inter alia, on Thursday. This idea of testing a Bill
by its brevity puts us in mind of the two boys who
disputed which of their fathers said the shortest
grace after meat. “ Mine says ‘ Thank God,’ ” cried
the one, “ and yours can’t clip that.” “ Well, said
the other, “ho can; for when he’s done, and scraped
his plate, and drained his mug, he pushes the things
from him, and says ‘ Theer.’ ” Whether the Land
Bill be short or long is not so much the point as
that it be good.—
In ' hort, so long as It gives fair “ Lands ’’ practice,
What odds, or snort or long the blessed Act is ?
I A few days ago, a party consisting of a
merchant, a well-known commission agent, a
Tasmanian member of Parliament, and a solicitor,
were driving across from Mount Victoria to the
Cave’s when their buggy suddenly came to a stand-
still, and although the horses strained their utmost
they could not shift their load an inch. On getting
down, the pionioers were horrified to find an enor-
mous blue snake, with a large flat copper head,
had wound its tail round the butt of a large tree,
and was holding the buggy back with his teeth,
which were three inches long and seventy-four in
number. Then they put the cork In the bottle,
and returned home to get an axe to chop the
“ varmint’s” head off. But when they reached the
hotel they forgot all about the snake, and tumbled
into bed. The horses got safely home, but the trap
was found keel up in a hole into which the snake
had probablv dragged it. Next day, the market
for soda with a dark bottom was extremely
active.
It is reported that a mountain 31,000 feet
high, with good gold near the base, has been dis-
covered in New Guinea. And it is also reported
that another mountain, 30,999 feet high—the one
mentioned in the Arabian Nights—has been
discovered at the mouth of the Fly Kiver, but this
is extremely dangerous to venture near, as it
simply consists of one immense Titanic loadstone,
and no sooner does a vessel approach within a
league than every rivet, bolt, and nail immediately
flies out of her and fastens on to the seaward side
of the mountain. Scores of noble ships must have
been already wrecked there. Thousands of marlin-
spikes stick horizontally out from the terrible
mountain’s side, giving it the appearance of a
gigantic hedge-hog going to war, and the skeletons
of .fifteen unfortunate seamen are fixed in the
same position, exposed alike to the fierce assaults
of an angry sea and the scorching glare of a tropic
sun. This should be a solemn warning to all those
who go down to the sea in ships not to wear hob-
nail boots, as the load-stone attracts the iron and
holds the wearer out at arm’s length, just as it
does those fifteen luckless sailors. Our “ special”
hasn’t reached New Guinea yet, but when he does
he’ll discover things the bare description of which
would make an Egyptian mummy sit straight up
In his old papyrus shroud, and whistle. Now, Mr.
Morrison, trump that.
A city, like a man, has its individuality. As
each man possesses physical and mental peculiari-
ties different from all his kind, so each town
possesses characteristics of its own. For the
insignificant sum of 4d. we travelled the other day
from the Bridge-street terminus to Waverley. The
ears were crammed. Everybody in Sydney
appeared to have business at Waverley that day,
so that we felt thankful for the standing room
afforded us in the rear. The position was favour-
able for observation. Through the windows all
the occupants of the cars could be seen at once.
During the whole of the half-hour’s trip some well-
dressed women were standing—clutching the
fixtures when the tram started, wobbling help-
lessly about when it stopped—while a score of
well-dressed men of all ages were seated chatting
pleasantly, and smiling affably when a sudden
slackening of speed shot the females into their
laps. Like the late Mr. James Smiley, we have
been everywhere, and seen everything, but this
staggered us. We had visited-sometimes through
caprice, oftener through compulsion—every land
from Nova Zembla to New Caledonia, but this was
a now experience. Once, in “Old Kentucky, a
travelling German— unacquainted with the cus-
toms of the natives—forgot to shift quickly
enough when a lady tramp got into the car. He is
in Kentucky still—all that is left of him. Now,
here is a conundrum, just as good as any you’ll
find in the weekly D.T. Why is it that one great
branch of the English-speaking people shows
every consideration for females, while at least one
of the colonial branches seems determined that
“women s rights” shall not Include the right of
ousting the man In possession of a tram-car seat ?
That the following is a true bill we solemly
and sincerely declare, so help our John Lucas:—
“ North Shore Sydney.
“ Mine dear Friend,—lt is long time since I did
write one letter to you, now that I can spik and
write the English very well, it will not be a trouble
I shall tell you I live on the north Shore, and when
I go out for a valk I valk and when I go for a ride
I take one horse and sit on him, and he valks. 1
went a very long ride, along the road mit my horse
to a piace they call Middle Harbor, There was no
one else on that road, presently I see a cow, so
does mine horse, he stood still and pricked up his
ears. Move on m y good Animal I say, he only shake
his ears, then I touch him mit the whip he give
one jump and vere vas I—Gott in Himmel—l vas
in the road. That road vas all stones, I got up
mine horse he stand quite still I mount again. I say
now my line fellow you go past the cow
mit me on your back, I take tight hold
of the reins I take tight hold of the
horse mit ray knees, and ve start, but the
cow she lift her head and look wicked at mine
horse, he shy again, vere vas I ? on the ground,
this time I fall harder; the sharp stones bruise
ms, I look at mine horse I say my noble animal,
we vill both valk this time, he stands quite still,
I take the rein and he follow me; and we did valk
past Madame Cow, Many mile mine horse and I
vaik that day hut at last I reach home my feel
ao e, my back ache. Ven Igo to sit on my
I shy like mine horje at the cow. It shall be lonp
time before I forget that ride and yen next I ride
I vill take a valk first, and see no cow in my road—
You shall write me ven you get my letter and if
you come over I vill lend you mine horse
“ goodbye.
That is English, and very good.”
Notwithstanding the heiculea'; labours
of the miraculous Mlrams, who time after time, in
the progress of the discussion, lifted up his face
and wept negatives, the Victorian Tariff Com-
mission (over which he presides) have rushed with
apopletic earnestness into the arms of the Smiths.
In these days of T.C,-ships. J.P.-ship«, C.M.G.-
shlps, and fleets of other clean-decked crafts, that,
with sails bulged with historical monsoons, move,
like crinolined Amazons, over the crests of our
social billows, the Smiths have clubbed well to-
gether, and when other men would have despaired,
have continued to fight the battle for the posses-
sion of what to them is their crowning glory—
their Hats. Meet a Smith anywhere, from Bruns-
wick to Brighton, and you met a Hat. His grocer
may have languished, and his washerwoman gone
mad, but like the man to Poll, he was always true
to his Hat. The only material substance between
a Smith’s brains and the eternal overhanging skies
was his Hat, and through weal and woe he has
been sticking to it since Victoria was young. At
last, he has touched the sympathetic heart of the
Commission, and they have resolved to recom-
mend the reduction to twelve shillings a dozen of
the duty on imported Hats. The Turners and
Browns, and Cookers, and Shaws, of course, urge
Mirams to fight the battle over. But, we hope he
won’t. We hope he’ll leave the Smiths their
victory. For It, they have tolled long and hard.
Hours upon hours of the night, they have sat
rubbing the hairs and Inking the felt of their
crowning glory, hoping that when they walkest
out in the sunshine the merry and merciless
passers by would take them for what, in their
hearts, they know they are—the lineal descendants
of old-world aristocrats. For the brilliance and
splendour of Victorian life, we hope the Smiths
will be left in the possession of cheap Hats. When
on some great gala day—at Flemington, for in
stance—every Smith appears under a shining tiler,
t will be worth Australia’s while to shut up its.
ihorticultural shows, and come and look.
Things have, of late, been very mixed at a
certain Sydney hostelry, where a sportive Hebe
amused herself by putting into a thirsty old
gentleman’s pot of porter half-a-dozen villainous
pills, which were duly swallowed. Some of the
other fair creatures who, for sixpence, dispense
whisky with a smile given into any man who wears
a masher collar and pointed boots, have invented
an even more exhilarating amusement. One of
them will say to the love-sick “ masher ” who leans
his elbows on to her bar: “Do you see that fellow
at the other end of the counter? Well, he says
you are a howling cad. But that’s not all. I really
can’t tell you all he says. If you only knew what
he tells about your father, you’d smash his head.”
As on such provocation, of course, the average
man will at once proceed to try and smash the
other fellow’s head, it follows that the space in
front of the bar is soon strewn with eye-glasses
and hair and gore, if not also with bones and eye-
balls. A little bit of the old Roman sporting
spirit, you will say, still burns in the breasts of
these ladies, and for their benefit the modern
masher exchanges places with the ancient gladi-
ator. We are afraid that Hebe would, on the
average, go poUices verm against the best man in
the country for fifteen yards of silk—for that’s
about how much it takes to make a dress, isn’t it ?
But let us sing
This year it took two “ specials ” to do the
Herald’s account of the Cup Day. About one-
tenth of the report was slung by the ruby-topped
“Nemo:” and judging with the eyes of an expert,
and a natural instinct that has never known a
day’s illness, we can safely say the balance of the
arrangement was supplied by a lady, we might
also add, by an old lady—in fact, we might even go
one step further, and say by a clever, but
bitterly cynical old lady. She (for we’re sure
it’s a she) writes: “Taking them by hazard as they
showed themselves, you could hardly help fanci-
fully comparing them to other things. Thus you
would see a field of primroses fenced in with car-
nations, a flock of doves floating among clouds of
soft lace, a tablet of drab oddly relieved with
patches of narrow ribbon, as if railway tickets of
divers colours had been spread upon a stone
floor.” For peculiar fitness, that railway
ticket simile has never been equalled—except
perhaps in the case where Garranny herself
likened M’Elhone to a motherly hen, strutting and
cackling, and spreading her wings in anxious care
over a newly-fledged brood, or when the Hon
John declared he (the Hon. John) was, like
Caesar’s wife, above suspicion. “ Fancifully com-
paring,” however, is good; and now when we see
Lady Mulligan (who in the prosaic world of trade
sells shandy gaff) dressed in sky-blue, and treading
the mazy waltz, we will instinctively compare her
toilette with the milk her lord used to ladle out
when he kept a cow-yard. Further along, the
reporteress says she met a “ mountain of flesh,
wrapped in plum-colour satin, having many pro-
jections; another mountain of female humanity,
covered with brown silk, and having seve e
eyes, tempered by a pince nez and a merry
face at the end of a brown ulster; but
as she doesn’t tell us at which end of the ulster
the face was, her information is even worse than
useless. Somehow, it seems to have been quite a
fat woman’s day out altogether, as wo read that the
next items met were an amazing solidity of flesh
in voluminous soft silk; another large creature in
navy blue satin, topped with a green umbrella; a
field of snow with Islets of raw beef (poetic this !),
and a huge woman in red velvet.” Perhaps those
female Daniel Lamberts were specially invited to
test the strength of that part of the Stand which
has been recently erected; but, passing by this,
what we gloat over most is that portion of the
“wire” which speaks of “a brilliantly handsome
woman, with a history, wearing a dress com-
pounded of many colours and divers materials, but
also artistically blended as to produce a wondrous
and lustrous whole—in fact, a dress and a woman
to dream of. This, of course, refers to “Nemo's”
fair “ pardner” herself, but why in thunder didn’t
she chip in a word for the historical cap
and feather? Lastly, we learn that blue
stockings give one "the impresssion of coolness.”
If that’s so, blue must be the writer’s favourite
coiour for leg-gear, for when it comes to coolness
an Arctic iceberg is a boiler factory furnace com-
pared with the lady who did Cup Day for the
Herald
Oh, how refreshing palatable and reviving
is a draught of cool water with Hop Bitters in it,
to a fever patient. See.
No. II.
Old Mr. Puffin, who happened to be out in his yacht, was rather surprised when a
lady’s hat suddenly fell down upon him, apparently from the skies.
“WHISKY” LOVE.
Till yestereve, I was blithe and gay,
With a heart from trouble free;
And I lived my life in a simple way,
And Love was a myth to me.
But, yestereve, at a bright-lit Bar
(Where I quaffed the flowing bowl),
I saw, through the smoke of my mild cigar,
A face that enthralled my soul.
Yes, face and form of fairer mould
I’ve never seen, than that girl's;
The tint of her hair was of burnished gold
(She’d a positive wealth of curls).
She, laughingly, led me to Lave’s abyss.
Then toppled me over the brink;
And I bathed in a bath of bewildering bliss
As I ordered “ another drink.”
’Twas a rounded arm she lifted high,
As the bottle she blandly passed;
The turn of her wrist and her gleaming eye
Have taught me to love at last.
To-day, I groan as I sadly think
That other men catch the gleam
Of the self-same eye, as they take their drink:
Ah, Love is a fevered dream I


FULLERS
Christmas Card Exhibition.
LAST YEAR many thousands of people flocked to the
Christmas Card Exhibition, held by Mr. C. E. Fuller,
the well-known Stationer, of George-street, in this city, and
they were not disappointed at finding there a collection of
Christmas Cards and Gifts, the most varied and the most
artistic ever exhibited in Australia. It was then announced
that Mr. Fuller had completed his arrangements for the sup-
ply of CHRISTMAS NOVELTIES, and that each successive
year would find a further advance in this direction; and cer-
tainly, this year, facts verify the promise, for Mr. Fuller has
now to hand a collection of Christmas Cards and Novelties of
a variety and quality which could hardly have been dreamt of
before. Most of the choicest designs intended for the public
this year are already on display at the Exhibition, and the
surprise is how such artistic productions can be offered at so
liberal a figure. There is hardly a design in which there is
not great artistic merit, depicting with wonderful fidelity and
effect the prettiest and most inspiriting sketches of English
and Colonial scenery. And, considering that most of these
sketches are hand-painted, it is surprising how such talent can
be remunerated. Take some of the hand-painted photographs,
the effects produced are the most artistic, and have features
which render the best landscapes in oils of the greatest value.
Fuller’s Christmas Card collection (which are wholly in con-
trast with last year’s productions) comprise cards with appro-
priate ethnological sketches, innumerable prints and photos
(hand-painted) of English and other scenery; Christmas Gifts in plush—the handsomest
and most chaste ever imported —splendid new designs in ladies’ satchels, on which are depicted,
in hand-painted sketches on satin, the choicest and most appropriate Christmas scenes in the
old and the new world; hand-painted productions on ivory and gelatine, sporting and colonial
Christmas views, and splendid etchings emblematic of the incidents of the great festive season.
It is estimated that upwards of 100,000 visited Fuller’s Exhibition last Christmas, and great as
was the stock, a third more of the supplies had to be obtained. This year Mr. Fuller has antici-
pated a similar demand. He has upwards of 500 different classes, each with probably 500 dif-
ferent sub-classes, and there is probably not one among the whole collection which would not be
highly prized here or in the United Kingdom. One particu-
lar feature about this year’s Cards is the fact that each card
has appropriate verse suitable to Australia and the character
and incidents of its Christmas. Through recent improvements,
great space is afforded for display, so that a selection may be
made from each class of exhibits. Mr. Fuller has this year
opened his stock much earlier than usual, for three very good
reasons —the first to allow of our Australian Christmas Cards
being selected and sent home to friends in England, Ireland,
and Scotland; the second, to permit of residents in the coun-
try districts of our colonies ordering and receiving Christmas
presents and mementos; and the third, to allow of patrons
in the city coming early to make their selection without ex-
periencing the inevitable crush of the Christmas week. Alto-
gether, something like £4OOO worth of cards, albums, (some
the first time imported) &c., will be shown this year—England,
France, Germany, and America, being represented. That
Mr. Fuller’s enterprise is likely to be appreciated, the present
attendance of the public is ample proof. Fuller’s Christmas
Card Exhibition in George-street is now the recognised
rl — -,t of the Australian Colonies for Christmas Cards and
Novelties.
THE NEW FASHION—THE GRAPE SEASON.
A MODEL DRIVER.—SHE CAN DRIVE YOU TO
DISTRACTION.


“Rough on Rats.”—Clears out rats, mice,
foach s, fliee, ants, bed-bugs, beetles, insects,
skunks,jack-rabbits, gophers. Druggists. Moses,
Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents.
On Tuesday, 11th Deo., Murray, M.L.A.,
intends to move for a return showing the religious
persuasion of all Public School pupils and teachers.
W e hope the Assembly will negative a proposal so
perfectly unnecessary and obviously chokefull of
the elements of a sectarian scrimmage. “ Religious
persuasion” should have never a column ruled for
it in a single State document.
Victorian members of Parliament enjoy
the privilege of free postage, and now they howl
to be allowed to send their telegrams on the cheap
also. Berry, however, says ho can’t see it. But
there was a time when Graham would have not
only franked their “ wires” but allowed them to
suck the State for victuals, clothes, and boxes at
the opera bouffe as well. Times change, and we
change with them.
As everyone knows, Mr. Dailey’s Contempt
of Court Bill was rejected In the Legislative Coun-
cil by 19 votes to 14. Amongst those who voted
against the Bill were ex-Judge Stephen and
Messrs. Smith and Webb (the father-in-law and
brother-in-law respectively of Judge Innes). Had
Sir Alfred Stephen and the two members last
mentioned voted on the other Bide, the Bill would
have been carried by a majority of one, or by 17
to 16.
Premier Stuart knows that some back
blocks have been sold at £BOOO or £lO,OOO for the
good-will, because of the low rental. Brodribb,
M.L.C., who pretends to be an intimate acquaint-
ance with back blocks, declares that Stuart is mis-
informed. We |aiso know that some back blocks
have fetched the figures named by Stuart. There
are back blocks and back blocks. Brodribb’s ex-
perience is rutty. What hasn’t come under his
notice, doesn’t exist. Concentrated attention to
wool-gathering will affect the intellect, reducing
It to the ruttiness we complain of in W.A.B.
Captain Lindsay, who got his unfortunate
barque Ceres into Melbourne the other day, has a
capacious diaphragm. His command of language
is considerable, and his lungs would do fora black-
smith’s bellows. From stem to stern every plank
in Ceres has heard the shaking ef that diaphragm
and the bellowing of those lungs. As a Briton,
he swears he will “never, never.” This time his
trouble is about a couple of Chinamen, and his
Indignation and tha “ never-never ” attitude ara
against MTlwraith. He ran upon a shoal in the
north of Queensland, and his Chinaman cook and
Chinaman steward put off in an open boat for Port
Mackay. They got there in a fortnight. But the
tax-gatherer heard of them, and paid an official
visit for the £lO a head, as by law imposed on pig-
tail immigrants. The Chinamen hadn’t a copper,
and were forthwith sent to the Mackay look-up.
Captain Lindsay is quite justified In maintain-
ing that the men would have been happier
drowned. So they would, and tho matter does
not look to have been a very bright piece of
Queensland administration. But where Captain
Lindsay shines is in preferring his complaint to
Mr. Service. He regards the Victorian Premier as
a sort ot High Admiral in the Southern hemi-
sphere. That comes from his liking for Chinese.
Nowhere outside of China would anyone suppose
that Sir Thomas MTlwraith’s colony could be
brought to book by the little sheep-run of Vic-
toria. In the meantime the captain storms up and
down and round about like a cyclone, and Hobson’s
Bay runs rough. It is well he has not a few Nor-
denfeldts or Krupp guns on board, or the Ceres
would steer for Moreton Bay and blow Brisbane
to Adelaide. At least, to look at the captain makes
one think that.
The Australasian hopes that the lately
passed Mallee Act 44 will add a new province to
Victoria.” By the railway to Gippsland, Gavan
Duffy added one. By the Mallee Act it is proposed
to hang another on- But the most important of
all—the province of common-sense - will only be
annexed when about thirty of the eighty-six
Victorian members (we could select them) are
smuggled aboard the Nelson for a pleasure trip
round the Bay, and the vessel headed for one of
the newly-sunk torpedoes. Then, if the vigilant
officer on shore happened by accident to send
along a powerful dose of electricity just when the
boat was fairly over the quiescent volcano, why—
-Bome damage might be done to the windows in
Queenscliff and Sorrento, but think of the public
And if some of our New South Wales
peo pi e i B ay Sir , the Hon. , and the members
j or ) could be induced to join rhe trip I [Enough
Q f dreaming of happiness that can never be
rea llBed.~Ed. B.]
A
the parish of Whitehall, London. He finds that
the working man, whose earnings are £1 per week
and less, has to live with his wife and three or four
children in one room, miserably furnished. By
tho utmost self-denial he is Just able to clothe and
feed his children with the barest necessaries of
life. Pleasure of any kind for him or his is impos-
sible. He cannot spare 6d. to take them to see the
parks; ho can scarcely afford one penny to buy a
paper ora book. Holidays are out of the question.
He has to see those he loves pine and languish for
want of the fresh air and care so necessary for life.
The future does not attract his gaze, or give him
any hopeful or restful thought. To-morrow may
find him out of work, and unable to pay for rent
or food. It is well for him and thousands such as
he if they can obtain in exchange for ten hours
of dally labour the shelter of a water-proof room
when they come home at night, where they may
sit in silence after the children have gone to bed,
without fire or light, to save coals and candles.
How immeasurably superior to this the life of the
poorest savage in Central Africa, who has never
heard in his native wilds the sound of the church-
going bell, which dins such a mockery in the ears
of millions of the white slaves of England I
“A German Socialist” writes to us, with
reference to the Luther centenary “ As a native
of the ‘Fatherland,’ and once a belie.er in
Luther’s creed, I want to draw your attention to
the following episodes, which commend Luther to
the utmost contempt of those wh« strive to emanci-
pate the pariahs of society, the down-trodden pro-
ducers of wealth. Luther s merits are generally
grossly exaggerated: it did perhaps only con
sist in correcting the German language, by the
translation of the Bible into the purest dialect
that was spoken at the time. Luther’s eleva-
tion was the product of well-prepared
and deep-rooted previous revolutionary move-
ments, whose leading characters died on the
Mit or were tortured or starved to death
e horrible chambers and dungeons of the
Inquisition, and whose names servile and pros-
tituted ‘ historians ’ scarcely if ever thought worth
while to record. We find at Luther’s time the
whole down-trodden and oppressed peasantry-
serfs—throughout the whole German empire, in j
open rebellion against the most audacious,
rapacious, cruel, and demoralised nobility, who I
owned all the land, and even the bodies of their i
peasant*. Of course, tha ‘rebels’ interpreted
4 wrongly’ the newly-revealed ’truth’ of the Bible
and of human equality, in demanding liberty
and the fruits of their own labour, and the land
which they cultivated, as their property—which
indeed it was before the “Sir Knights” appro-
priated tho land, and built castles with horrible
dungeons, and made the sons of the soil their
slaves. These poor down-trodden, wretched, and
to-despair-drtven sons of toll were, according to
Luther, 4 to be slain, tortured, burned, shot, etc.,
like mad dogs’—his own words. Which. Indeed,
they afterwards were. What mostly helped Pro-
testantism, or accomplished the 4 Great Reforma-
tion,’ was nothing else but the Jewish money-
lenders. The 311 German monarchs, or Princelets,
were in pecuniary embarrassments, and by intro-
ducing the‘Reformation’ they had a convenient
excuse for confiscating the property and wealth—
consisting of land, gold and silver plate—of the
Romish churches. Therefore the Reformation was
introduced. The thirty years’ war. which Indeed
was nothing else but a rivalry in plundei ing, etc.,
had little to do with religion or establishing reli-
gious freedom. In the light of modern Socialism,
all those idols, eulogised by the priests of all
shades and their poor misled ignorant followers,
are nothing but the greatest frauds, humbugs,
and scoundrels with which the world ever was
cursed. Thomas Muenzer, later torn to pieces by
bullocks after horrible tortures—a leader of an
army of peasants, and a contemporary of Luther -
designated the latter, for his malicious and slan-
derous accusati ns and denunciations, us ‘the
foul and lazy flesh of Wittenberg, an enemy of the
poor, but a friend of the rich and mighty.’ If
ever a change for the better was effected, ft was
not the so-called Reformation which accomplished
it, and of which so many humbugs in sheep’s
clothes brag, but the great French Revolution,
And another revolution will have to be acoom
pllshed ere that ; ideal of which the greatest thinkers
nave dreamt is on earth established.”
w r Foster at the Luther demonstration
. takina the ohai nice Sir John con*
tLt he had often beer a stim ianh«fnr«
And whvnot V Tothehle the hun«l g P
Ana wUy not * 10 tbe ,lole ttu blln »‘
OUR FIRE BRIGADE.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general .l
RACING INDEX.
Readers ■will find the column regularly
JT ith a p f fixtures to be attended to
within the month; followed by names and dates
future*" 111 * 6 *' 111 !! 8 to be held in the more distant
THE MONTH’S FIXTURES.
Nyngan iVeig-hta November 15.
Murrumbidgee T.C. General Entry Nov. 16.
Narandera Acceptances . .November 16.
Temora Handicaps close November 16.
Murrumbidgee Acceptances November 30.
November 21.
S*’ 11 }!*' m° Wn wP trl u? November 21.
Druitt Town Weights November 33.
Murrumbidgee T.C November 21, 22, 23.
November 33, 23.
Uru il l Town.. ...... . Novpmhfir 24
Tatteraiirs Cup Weights .....'..November26.’
•F-,? UI^ mer 9 up Weights November 26.
Warialda Acceptances November 26.
Narandera General Entry November 27.
Hillston Handicaps close November 28.
J-C. (V-/ November 28, 29.
Narandera J.C. November 29, 30.
Hartley District J.C. Spring November 39, 30.
Liverpool J.C. Entry December 1.
Campbell town Handicaps close December 1.
Bega Entry Closes December 3.
Candelo Entry Decembers.
Temora General Entry December 4
A.J.C. Summer Cup, and December Stakes,
first forfeit .. Dcc6nibcrs
Tattersall’s General Entry .'.’.’.'.‘.'December 5.
dattersall s Cup, non-acceptances Decembers.
'\“'‘ send Entries December 5.
Hilisten .Weights... Decemper 5.
Campbeiitown Weights Decemner*.
ieraora Races December 6
Campbeiitown General Entry . December 10.’
Bega Weights. December 10.
Liverpool Weights. December 11.
Liverpool General Entry December 11.
Walisend Weights December 12.
Casino Handicaps close December 12.
Caffno Weights December 15.
Hillston Acceptances December 19.
Walisend non-aocept December 19.
Casino Acceptances. December 23.
New England Handicaps close December 22.
Hillston Races December 36.
acceptances December 31.
8. T.C. General Entry January 3, 1884.
Adelong Races Januarv 1 3
New England Weights January 7.’
New England Acceptances January 17
Balonne Handicaps close February 18
Balonne St. George Handicap Weights.... March is!
Balonne St. George Handicap Accept March 31.
Balonne Handicap Weights April 8.
FUTURE RACES.
Tamwprth R.C. (Summer) December 4,6.
Warlalda J.U_ December 13,13.
Camden and Campbeiitown J.C. Races Dec. 15.
Liverpool J.C. December 23,
Victoria Amateur T.C December 36.
Pleasant Creek (V.) December 36.
Clarence TattersaU’s J.C December 26.
Casino Races December 26.
Gunnedah December 26, 27.
Wallsend December 26,27.
Tattersall’a (Annual) January l, 1884.
v .u. 0.. January 1.
Wentworth January 1.
Candelo Races January 2.
Bega J. Races January 18,11.
New England Races Janury 25, 26.
Sydney T.C January 28
Tasmanian R.C, (Summer) February 13,14. is!
Coonabarabran January 24. 25.
Cooma Races February 6, 8.
Elmwood Races February 6. 8.
V.R.C. Autumn March 1 fi fi
Wanganui (N.Z.) J.C. Autumn ......March 6, i.
Balonne (Q.) Races April 8 9
Hawkesbury R.C. (Autumn) ! April 3| 5.’
AQUATICS
BSSfB2»r“
Hunt Prize
Deeble and Punch Prize.. ‘’ V.' l5
National Keeatta ""“V '."jiiSwSuW.
CRICKET.
Melbourne v. N.S.W. at Melbourne Dec. 26.
ATHLETICS.
Hay Athletic Club Sports Dec. 26,27.
Blayney Sports. Dec. 26.
Wrestling Match, Cobar December 26.
Highland Society’s Gathering January 1
BICYCLING.
N.S.W. Cyclists’ Union Race Meeting Dec. 1.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
The original “Sam Cosstick ” is
not dead. He la caretaker of the Albion Cricket
Ground. West Maitland .. “Euchre”: There’s no
such thing as one player going alone against an-
other— “M.J. M‘D.” (Enfield): The correct odds
are 3 to 1 against them coupled “ Enquirer ”
(Dapto): 1. She is by Somnus from The Giggler.
2. The fastest six furlongs we know of. 3. The
course is still a mile and a quarter. ..“W.M.”:
The Barb and Barbarian are full brothers. Bar-
belle was a full sister... “R.1.P.” (Parramatta):
He was out of Young Emily, and Mr. S. Martin
gave 500 guineas for him as a yearling “ Victim ”:
Those of “ Janitor ” and “ Tattersall’s ” are genuine
enough, but we don’t care to say what we think of
tho others. It’s very evident vou have been
“ bad ” for your money, and we have no sympathy
with you —“Cribbage”: Yes ; he scores one for
the last card.
The Budget.
[BY NEW WARRIOR.]
The first item of any importance to horse owners
this week is the closing, on Friday, of the general
entry for the Murrumbldgee meeting, which will
come off on the 21st and two following days. Such
an all-important fixture will well repay prompt
attention. Entries are also called for the Temora
handicaps on the same day, and on the coming
Monday the good things to he run for at Nvngan
and Druitt Town close. Acceptances for Wagga
are due on Tuesday next, and thus ends
the very short list of fixtures for the coming
week. The sporting folk of Nyngan will hold
their two days’meeting on Thursday and Friday
in next week, and racing will be on at Druitt Town
a day later.
The V.R.C. Spring meeting of 1883. the greatest
of Australian racing carnivals, has been numbered
with the things of the past; but in more ways
than one it will live in the minds of Australian
turfites as the most memorable meeting ever held
at Flemington. Sydney cits have returned home,
and the sporting purlieus once more wear their
wonted aspect. New South Wales has every
reason to be proud of the doings of her cham-
pions, the “plums” of the meeting being won by
the parent colony; and never before has such a
complete success been scored by any one owner
as that which has been recorded to the Justly I
popular owner of the “ blue and white,” though
be It remembered that Mr. de Mestre had the
honour of training three such winners in 1877,
but not for the same owner. How completely at
fault were the presumed best judges in the land as
to what was done in the “early morn” on the
Flemington gallops, needs no telling here ; but
it’s rather surprising how one and all unani-
mously decided that Martini-Henry was not
above second-rate form, and not until he had
won the Derby as his maiden attempt, was he re-
garded as having more than an outside look in for
the Cup. But it is generally conceded now that he
is the best racehorse in Australia, and lovers of
equine contests are naturally anxious for the time
to arrive when he will strip against Navigator and
Commotion for - the Champion Race. No surprise
qvU d ia b tnrn^ lol i ed & ,™ i 8 * on of Musket and
n - '’f tumlngout as he has, for his sire was one
P? e , of the be ?J stayers” in the old country, and
his damgave the turf Goldsbrough, who won the
A.J.C. Metropolitan, St, Leger, and Hawkesburv
Handicap, and liobin Hood, winner of the V.R.(£
Derby and A.J.C. St. Leger, while his granddam is
annh noin^v 11 old HJ are Juß et, from whom sprang
f.pSa C ?i e V n i6B ®?> Chrysoiite (dam of many win-
pi Jni;w d 1 , Rob ‘ n B° rl Crusoe, Lapidist, and
and V R p ag ß' ck K 0r ’ , Ch s£. on pinner of the A.J.C.
V R -C. Derbies). The Friar, and Benvolio
choke 61 " full th rff A 'hi2a D ? rby) ’ f Such a Pedigree,
cnoae tub of high-class winners as it is,
“ve/y r ar e|y met with, and the list goes
that nr.+h? er v? Dro , v ®> if Proof were wanting,
that nothing but sticking to winning families is
the sure road to success on the turf. In lolanthe
Manbyrnong claims his fourth Maribyrnong
nWo Y‘ n f aer ’ fl nd as her brother ran into second
hidH?ni aSt v, year .V tbere 8 JlkeJ y to be some heavy
Mr d phhiY ben *5? ne T t relative is submitted by
of tho 9 of the greatest performances
?n tho ihoal lf J " deed it doesn’t throw all others
in the shade, was the position occupied by Com-
motion in the Cup with the steadier of idst. lib.
and Mr. Pearson may well be proud of his
afh® Archie fiasco has not yet been
™oiY ed to a ie out ’ - and if °nly on this score the
meeting under notice will be one never to be
: but although public opinion is so
no-h imo f UB 011 S e pomt ’ 1 cannot believe that the
Derby favourite was “pulled.” Williamson
r o tamly . wears t h f P a i m as the most successful
muf /j and ?° end of credit is due to Mr. Fennelly.
Th** °P*. J ) am ® B threw in for a big stake by
the dual win of Martini-Henry, but I believe not
la^ eaa generally reported, and the followers of
the stable—who, by the way, muster in good
numbers —are all voted large winners.
It was a slice of 111-luck which caused the V R C
P^ pone .iM fining day of the late meeting!
and none will feel the alteration so much as the
books; but, as it rains as heavily in Melbourne
as any other place under the sun—and we are told
it came down in torrents—the powers that ho
4d o otherwise than they did. Hundreds of
visitors had made arrangements to leave Mel-
bourne on Saturday and Monday, with many
others booked for Tuesday morning; and, as the
+v£ en 0 1? if 6 !* 1 emen .t day ” also required alteration,
the met illicians, who, by the way, have never had
such a severe day as that on which the Cup was
have much cause to grumble. Disasters
followed so quickly on the Cup day,
that Chester’s memorable year did not equal it.
Canterbury Jockey Club, in New Zealand,
has Just got through its Spring meeting, but
meagre particulars only are to hand. Judging by
my latest files, the fields in the principal races had
dwindled away considerably, and there could have
been but few starters. At latest dates only four
w ?. r * l®ft in the Derby, which was won by dudeis,
odds laid on her. Sir .Bedivere being second)
fP A Helena, third, while it’s rather noteworthy
Zealand C up, with its handsome
a f d 9 on 1000 sovs., there wasn’t a three-year-
„! » 7 u l ht good e ?°«gb to accept with. Cheviot
at Q ff*‘ 9 , 1 b- occupied, according to latest infor-
“a*|on the position of favourite, but the winner
turned up in the five-year-old, Tasman, a son of
Hoo^ ba S? an ? ZiUph (who, It was rumoured, had
he®", ®°l d Privately), handicapped at a similar
and xY ho bad been supported to win a lot
.121 b., was second, and
Tim Whillier, *st. 101 b., third, the journey being
run In 3.36*. The Canterbury Cup, of 500 sovs*
weight for age, fell to the lot of Welcome Jack,
who started a prodigious favourite, Sir Bedivere
gaining second honours. The New Zealand Cup
winner was bred in Tasmania. v
While on the subject of N.Z. racing, I may
mention that the Auckland Racing Club have
decided on a new steeplechase course, and as it
will include several post and rail fences, four feet
high, with sod and stone walls equally as big, with
ditches on either side, none but jumpers of the
first-class are likely to try their hands to gain the
coveted prizes intended to be run for.
The following few linos will tell to what extent
good wholesome cheek” will lead some people.
At a race meeting, some few months ago, a backer
5r bp became indebted to a “ layer of odds”
(both shall be nameless) to the extent of some
twelve er fourteen pounds, and failed to put in an
appearance at Tattersall’s on settling day, or be
represented. Previous to contracting
the debt mentioned, he had backed Martini-Henry
tb ® T- R '9' Cup to win £3OO with his
creditor, and the latter having reason to believe
his debtor was intentionally making himself scarce,
waited upon him, the result of the interview being
that, unless the money due was paid within a sti-
p mated time, the wager was to be scratched. Time
rolled on, and the “ ready” not being forthcoming,
the wager was scratched-just prior to the late
y .R.C. meeting. The day after the Cup was de-
cided a third person interviewed the layer of odds
in question, and was pleased at having won
trom the original backer one hundred
pounds of the double money. But Imagine
his surprise on learning that the wager had some
time been declared off. He persisted in claiming
his money, and the original backer of the double
doing ditto, matters became complicated, and are
** ? e t or 80me time. No blame can be
attached to backer No. 2, presuming that his part
of the transaction was genuine, and it’s certainly
hard lines to win a century, which, through
tnckery, cannot be claimed. As only one of the
disputants is a member of Tattersall’s, that body
cannot adjudicate on the case, and the knight of
the metallic can hardly be expected to leave such
a barefaced and clumsy attempt at a swindle to
arbitration bv outsiders. This ought to act as a
caution to others who wish to avoid their respon-
sibility.
The Victorian police authorities played sad
havoc with the horde of “ thimble-riggers ” and
monte-players at Flemington during the meeting
just concluded; and in all cases where a conviction
was gained, imprisonment for a number of days
followed. Such a move as this will rid racecourses
in the colonies of a very undesirable section of
the community.
To show how often “ clever folk ” are deceived.
First Water, who ran second in the Melbourne
Lup, and who was so sensationally backed to win
the greater part of £lOO,OOO, was voted a “stiff un”
for many weeks before the race, notwithstanding
the stable made no secret that they possessed a
pretty good thing. That they were not far astray
in their judgment, is shown by the splendid second
an <i M Grade narrowly escaped landing his
£4OOO to nothing.
! am pleased to notice that the Wollongong
Turt Club intend putting* a stop to all shady trans-
actions with a high hand; and having begun well,
it s to be hoped they will continue in the same
groove. At the late meeting held last month, a
charge of suspicious riding was preferred against
two riders named Lorry and Frampton, with the
result that, after a careful investigation, they were
both disqualified for six and twelve months respec-
rively- As a rule, country clubs are far too lenient
with delinquent jockeys, and often allow glaring
offences to pass unchallenged.
The running of Archie in the Melbourne Cup
has confirmed the opinion of many that he ought
to have won the Derby, and he is said to have cut
put the first mile and a half in 2 min. 36>6 sec. That
he was not ridden well in the Derby must on all
sides be admitted; but I fail to see how a reliable
line can be got from his Cup running as to what
he could have done on the Saturday previous with
Derby weights.
The wonderful time made by lolanthe in the
Maribyrnong Plate is generally voted to be
incorrect, and I am also sceptical about the Derby
record. The Australasian, speaking of the
Two-year-old Derby” time, says: “The clock did
not start until the horses had gone 50 or 60 yards,
and it is ridiculous for a club like the V.R.C. to
send forth records which are purely fictitious.” A
clever and practised hand with the “ Peater” tells
me that many private “tickers” agree that the
Manbyrnong Plate was run in Imln. 4sec.
There will be a busy time under the “new
verandah ” at Tattersall’s on Monday next, which
is the official settling day over the whole of the
late V.R.C. meeting, and already I have heard
several backers talk about not paving over their
losses on Archie in the V.R.C. Derby. There’s no
law to compel them to pay over Archie, or, in fact,
over anything else, but I hope those who do refuse
tO .„ P art ” will be made such examples of that
will deter others from following suit.
The Hon. James White, with commendable
hberality, sent the injured jockey Plgott a cheque
fpr £5O, though his horse in no way contributed to
the accident. Pigott is now out of danger.
While running in the Adela de Steeplechase on
Friday last. Regal fell, and, breaking both legs
was destroyed, 6 ’
I am sorry to hear that the well-known New-
castle sport, Mr. “Bob” Watt, has, through an
accident in Melbourne, fractured one of his thighs.
If the time test and public form be taken a~
guides, then the land of the banana boasts just
now possession of a very brilliant three-year-old
colt in Wheatmeat, by Melbourne out of Wheat-
sheaf (imp.), by Thormanby out of Greta by Vol-
tigeur. Wheatsheaf gave the turf such per-
formers as Wheatear, Waterloo, Warhawk, and
Whisker, and as Wheatmeat is credited with
having won the Queensland Derby in “44” in
almost a common canter, I hope to see him give
us a taste of his quality ere long.
Lecture, by Lecturer from Keepsake, is dead,
the result of a severe cold caught at Wollongong
during the late race meeting. This grey son of the
unbeaten Lecturer was a promising colt, and
would have well paid his way outside the metro-
polis.
The gate and booth properties connected with
the forthcoming meeting of the Hartley Jockey
Club have realised upwards of £l3O, and a good
meeting is anticipated. K
I’m sorry to learn that the injuries The Plunger
received in his accident with Delusion have turned
out to be more serious than was at first thought,
and it s very improbable that he will see the post
again- The Plunger was by Argus Scandal from
Lady Ellen, and a deal of sympathy has been ex-
pressed for his owner, Mr. Redfearn.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Lord Harris is organising a team of cric-
keters to visit Canada.
Sullivan, the American “masher,’* will
probably visit Australia about the end of 1881.
A. Jackson, of Plattsburg, won the All
Comers’ Mile on November 9, at the Wallsend
sports.
Edwards says there is not a man south of
the Line who could beat Scott in a 24 hours’ walk
Walker 1
A challenge has been issued by David
M’Ewen, of Dunedin, to walk Scott 12 hours, for
*25 or £6O.
Private chronometers make the Derby
time 2,% seconds more than the official record
Another “ error of judgment.”
Huxley has been dismissed from the Smart
service, for his error of judgment, but has since had
a good mount at Flemington.
The total number of persons who travelled
to the Melbourne Derby by train from Spencer-
street station was 8000, bring 1000 more than last
year.
Hyam, of Shoalhaven, won the Bathurst
Sheffield Cup, Bray (Casino) second, and Kidney
(Parkes) third. Humphries annexed the ten guinea
amateur cup.
Th® annual Melbourne Cup pigeon match,
under the auspices of the Melbourne Gun Club,
resulted in a division by A. W. Pearson, W, Davis,
and J. Allender.
Proudfoot, who has an hour’s start in the
Warrnambool 75-mile bicycle race, is stated to be
able to cover the distance in 7i hours, which ought
to win the race.
Nevin recently defeated Sullivan in a
billiard match at Nyngan. Sullivan, who is a
dashy player, made the break of the evening, 68.
It was not thought he did his best in the match.
“Yarraman,” a country sporting writer,
feeling the spirit of prophecy biting him mighty
bard, let his soul loose and sent the “c’reckt” tips
tor 18 of the recent Melbourne flutters to the
Evening News. 17 out of 18 were wrong.
Brett had an easy victory in his match with
the Victorian Wood, over a two-mile course on
the Yarra, for a £lO trophy. The Sydney man
obtained a lead before 400 yards had been covered,
and won easily by 3 lengths in 13min. 45sec,
An Auckland (N.Z.) sweep, the 1.X.L., ad
vertises “Registered letters not accepted. Tele-
grams, or letters containing coin, not accepted.”
At this rate it would be rather dlfflcultto bowl out
the I.X.L. promoters, should they wish to make a
rise.
At the Victorian Yacht Club’s annual
regatta at Melbourne, on Prince of Wales’ Birth-
day, the Excelsior won the yachts under 6 tons:
the Rory O’More won the race for cruising yachts •
and the Minnehata won the yachts exceeding
o tons. ,
The P.A.Y.C. has decided to hold the race
for Commodore Milford’s prizes on Saturday, 24th
November, the club adding second and third prizes
of £lO and £s—the race to be a general handicap for
all yachts belonging to the club,no]two prizes to go
to boats of the same class.
M’Namara, of Sydney, recently challenged
any weight-thrower in N. Z., and was taken up by
T. O’Connor who threw a 561 b. weight 22 feet. 4 in.,
a 281 b. weight 38ft. 2in., and a 48ft. weight 28ft. 4m.,
and beat M’Namara Dy lit. in the first, 2ft. in the
second, and rather more in the third contest.
The University and Carlton Clubs met in a
match on Friday last, with the following result:—
University, 308—J. Jones 56, J. Garrett 23, R. Alien
52, J. Coates 47, J. Carter 49, C. Metcalfe 53.
Carlton—V. Adams 25, T. Nunn 10. Adams went in
first and carried his bat right through the innings.
Marquis Bibbero, the well-known swim-
mer, who lately announced his intention of swim-
ming the Niagara Rapids, swam in the Thames on
September 3, with his hands and feet securely
bound, from Westminster Bridge until just before
reaching Pimlico Pier, a distance of ifi miles, in
21min. 40sec.
Paddy Pigott is pulling through, although
all the Melbourne papers killed him stone dead
and published his “ last words ” two weeks ago. It
is an extraordinary concidence that Pigott and
Gough cannoned against each other once before at
Wagga, and, as on the last occasion, Pigott was
badly hurt while Gough escaped uninjured.
Arrangements have been made for two
to xu® P ia y next season between the
AuataUlan Eleven and eleven of All England, one
on the Kenmngton Qyal and one at Lord’s ground
All England will probably be’
played. The Northern county clubs will meet in
December, to fix the remaining matches to he
played with the Australians. be
Doubts were expressed in some of the
English papers with regard to the correct measure-
raent of the track on which Lees made his wonder-
ful bicycle record of 30 mile* in 58min. 34sec.. but
the matter has been set at rest, as the ground has
b ® e ° measured by a surveyor, and found to be
4toyds. sm. in length, the measurement being
taken at a uniform distance of one foot from the
edge of the turf.
The D.T. was not satisfied with having a
dream on the single event, but went in for a quad-
ruple. They stated a gentleman dreamt the Hon.
twk B l i te ® borBeB ,T orl the Maribyrnong and
Derby, Dirk Hatteralck the Cup, and that the
dreamer would be dead and burled ere the Derbv
was run. The first two ca e off all right, and the
d !; eam c r (bed—as he deserved to do tor dreaming
of Dirk. We may mention that we have had a
dream concerning his present location.
An unknown horse from Bourke recently
raced Blue Tom for £25 aside at Moree. Blue Tom
won, although it was seen theunknown could have
distanced him had he been let out. It proved
however, it was only a feeler, as in the evening a
match was made with the unknown and Hazard
the hereof Narrabn, for £5O. The “ push ” wagered
rather heavily on their unknown, but it didn’t
Hazard*’ 88 tae Narrabri horse proved a winning
At a recent international swimming match
in Berlin in the prize swimminc*
?/f r a course of one statute mile, the winner passed
fho goal in 41 mm. 3 sec. In diving and swimming
under water, the greatest distance covered was
13oft. The winner m the so-called Hercules diving
whereby a number of heavy iron weights have to
oo brought up in three attempts, lifted a total
weight of 831 b. The champion diver
under water no less a time than 81 sec.
Edwards defeated Scott in a 48-hour con-
test that commenced at Christchurch, N.Z., on 25th
October, Scott led for 157 miles, when gd wards
Hq? a ° d w °u with a score of 193 miles to
®. 191 miles- A N.Z. weekly says—“ Whether
on ? aturda y is a question con-
cernmg which those who saw him walk will form
Towards the close of the match
tha? h h« woJ b L h f ma kuiflcent spurts with Bd wards
ir2L he xar f r? m exhausted, and such being so
he did not make any apparent
m H e w ,hich for hours separated
n?™ from Edwards, and which he must have seen
of the b Humph ! h ° Ur ’ meantthelo^’
At the Monmouth (U.S.) race meeting,
3L er o/ r 2 quois met wlth his recent defeats, there
was 24 days sport, with a total of 148 races
on° ( t3A i fA^Ana 0 H ally v. Unflt f 0 , 11166 * first-raters, and’
on tne second day he raced was so foot sore he
hardly gallop fast enough to keep himself
woo7i'ia Tbe bor , Be ruptured a blood-vessel in 1882,
was laid up nearly all they ear, then ran brilliantly
at Ascot and Stockbrldge, was shipped across, and
mouth th , I M fcee u° days, was taken to kon-
He di( ? well in his gallops but, as he was
to race m six weeks after his arrival in
America, his preparation was of necessity forced
It really seems a pity a good horse should have
been put to such humiliation. nave
bong’s horse Tonans (Toenails
the small bookies call him) has followed un his
“second” to Bendigo for the CambriShhe bv
occupying the same position to Boswell for the
J^ Umn Cu P- This rather hard
cheese for Mr. Long, more particularly as Boswell
waft m w Bt unc ® rtai ° horse, and only tries once in a
wa /; H« ran in blinkers for the Liverpool Cup.
A 4 the Dunedin )N. Z.) Police Court,
Edwards, the pedestrian, was fined £5 or a month’s
gaoj, for assaulting a boy named John Miles
during his first 48 hours’ match with Scott
ar , B not present, but was represented by
? f ou T n® e !; The boy said he sang eut to Scott, “Go
it, Joe, and to Edwards He’s beat you. ’ Edwards
B °mebo dy. so he beat the
Some years ago a mare was imported to
fo 6 N.ftw fh d th 0m p th ? Cape °i,. Wood Ho P e and put
frftd fin h foal was a filly, and called Wini-
£red. This filly was bought by a stockman and
rough rider named Billy Hoggarwho stuck to
her through thick and thin in more ways than one
for she was a terrible buck-jumper. He rode her
overland from Napier to put her to Musket and
Escopeta; the first Musket three-year-old that’won
a race this side of the line, was the result Not
seeing his way clear to train the filly, he leased her
frpH apt h Jn J iuSSe i l i havinfi: previously to sell Wini-
fred, who has not had a foal since, although she has
been to Javelin. Hoggard tried to buy Winifred
dnoa bu t Mr. M l ‘Lean, who owns the mare,
i“ ot care to part with the Nutwith blood,
rnd C o b th e Tg B ood on^? ln3 ° f Flora M ‘ lvor ’ Waimea -
There was no calling out the odds on the
course a,t Adelaide Hunt Club meeting, but a good
deal ?u 1 \ etb ln t I Dg n^ a 8 done ’ and the totalisator
was in full swing. The names of a number of
prominent men who Invested were taken with a
view to Felice Court proceedings. Sweeps were
religiously eschewed, this form of speculation
having been proscribed an offence by the recent
fßinff q n* etl £v. Bubmitted to the
“X® nd refrained from calling the odds, especially
found the authorities were wise enough
to refrain from preventing them doing a little
l he v* ule t- A racecourse without the
voice of the bookmaker is a strange place, and
ah^A Spo^ uq L p 0 v 11 *' 04 Vlew the change brought
about r • the Parliament is not palatable. As a
RJ"P™‘ Dent member of the Opposition remarked,
race P m^ting a .” Ce WBS m ° re like a f unerai than a
Numerous entries were received for the
Champ a gne Cup, to be rowed for next Saturday
af tPrnoon but the race will no doubt rest between
Brett, Pittes, and Gaden, with Middleton for agood
outsider, and we should not be surprised if the race
flmshed in the above order. We notice Thomson
has had the good sense to stand out, and it seems a
mystery how men like Robertson, crimble, Dobsoif
aad J, v ' eBca ° eater for a race of this sort, with the
certainty of being made a holy show of. By the
w ° n der how a Sydney rowing club entry,
who refused to row against Brett at a recent re-
gatta, will act. Should he start against the Mer-
cantile man in the Krug race, it will look very
much as if his refusal to row against him at Snail’s
Bay was merely to deprive Brett of the prize. We
row U over a for h ft tlme the lon * Un waa fv o Jiah not to
For a, wonder the Balmain Regatta people
had fine weather on the 9th,-too fine, in fact, as
4b ?I? BCa u rc P‘ y . enou^h wind for the sailing
cra ft to ( finish their races. His Excellency paid
a dji 4 / vlBlt to the Flagship, the “Australia.”
cracked some champagne, talked about a new
f h r k b l ld ? e acr oss the Harbour-Can
r^hftt. be back in Austraha ? and returned
ab °P Bt l i nn J£diately to the gubernatorial hen-
PpHaa r A V», W V FI t t «® (Victoria) defeated C. W.
Gaden for the bona lide amateurs, in wager boats,
A. J. Sharland (Tasmania) 3rd. Both the maiden
and junior fours fell to the M.R.C. crew M T
Fitzgeraid. R. W. Ball, G. Seale and S. H Mariini
The all comers brought Trickett, Btach, Edwards
and Pearce to the scratch; but the race was
“f 1 ?® fll ?t- Da m ed two. Trickett
couple of lengths. Bremer and Webster won the
bona fide amateur double sculls; C
Th^n^a 11 the all comers light skiff handicap
The Ouida won the amateur 16ft. diagy race- the
19ft. skiff race fell to the Nereus; the¥oaetU won
the 23ft. open boat handicap; the Ettie won the
coasters race; the old Australian, under a cloud of
o??hS 8 » f^ lrl} a^ omped aw^ y 41-01X1 the other yachts
in the under 8 tons race; Came won the 14ft dingy
race; the Lula carried off the half-decked boats
handicap, by her time allowance. The Victor
showed some of her old form, and won the 24ft
open boat; the Sophia won the race fo? 16ft
dmgies; the Maggie carried off the canvassers
raw’ aUd Sandy took pride o£ Place in thlftub


World-wide Honors to St. Jacobs 0/1.
THE Great German Remedy, ST. JACOBS OIL,
stands honoured with the highest distinction
ever paid to a medicine. This is not only the case
in this country, but abroad everywhere. At the
New Zealand International Exhibition, 1882, it re-
ceived the magnificent First Prize Medal, together
with the Highest Diploma for being, according to
critical tests, the Best Pain Curing and Healing
Remedy known to mankind. In this connection a
few testimonials from distinguished men are here
given as an evidence of the world-wide popularity
of ST. JACOBS OIL.
Opinions of Prominent Australians.
C. C. COHEN, Esq., Mullens-street, Balmain, Syd-
ney.—" One bottle of St. Jacobs Oil cured me
of a contracted leg of three years’ standing.”
Sworn to before Charles Kahlo, Esq., United
States Consul.
DAVID SCOTT, Esq., of the firm of Messrs. Boyle
and Scott, Cricket and Football Depot, Mel-
bourne, Victoria. —“ St. Jacobs Oil relieved me
at once of pain. I comment it to all footballers
and cricketers.”
W. P. BOOTH, Esq., Thomas-street, Balmain.—
“Nothing like St. Jacobs Oil, in my opinion,
for a valuable remedy.”
A. ADAMS, Esq., City View, Ryde, Sydney, N.B.W.
—“ St. Jacobs Oil cured me of a sprained knee,
and enabled me to walk about in four days.”
WALTER HAYNES, Esq., Manager for A. Church-
wood, York-street, Sydney, N.S.W.-Acknow-
ledges St. Jacobs Oil as an extraordinary
remedy.”
J, R. DREWETT, Esq., Town Buyer for Messrs.
S. Hoffnung and Co., Pitt-street, Sydney,
N.B. W.—“ I Took on St. Jacobs Oil as a univer-
sal panacea for all kinds of pain.”
A cash reward of one hundred pounds will be
paid by the Charles A. Vogeler Company of Bal-
timore, Maryland, United States of America, pro-
prietors of St. Jacobs Oil, or by their accredited
local representatives, to any person producing
proof to the effect that the testimonials published
by them in regard to St. Jacobs Oil are not strictly
genuine.
St. Jacobs Oil, the great German remedy, con-
quers pain. Sold by Druggists, Chemists, and
Medicine Dealers throughout the world. Priee in
New South Wales, Ualf-a-«rown a bottle. Direc-
tions for using in eleven languages.
ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney,
Wholesale Depot for New South Wales.
Miller and Blackburn met at Melbourne
in a wrestling match for £lOO aside, catch as catch
can above the waist, use of legs, tripping allowed.
“ Best of five falls,” two shoulders and one hip or
two hips and one shoulder to constitute a fall.
Miller stands sft. 9%in., and weighed 15st- Black-
burn, who is sft. 71n. in height and very compact-
ably built, wighed 13st. 71b. The men commenced
very warily. Miller strove for the body hold, so
that he might bring his immense strength into play,
while Blackburn relied more upon the trip, and
was very active on his feet. Miller kept moving
his grasp, and was brought down on his hands and
knees several times before Blackburn cross-but-
tocked and threw him fairly on his back. The next
two falls were obtained by Miller, who, getting the
armhold, threw Blackburn over his head with the
f reatest ease. The odds were now all in Miller’s
avour, but amid great excitement Blackburn
adroitly turned the tables by putting Miller down
with a cross-buttock when he was attempting the
arm-hold for a third time. After the usual rest the
men, amid great excitement, re-appeared for the
final fall, and were applauded with the utmost im-
partiality. Blackburn, by showing himself, al-
though the smaller man, to be a worthy antagonist,
had a lot of sympathy in his favour, and as there
appeared to be very little betting on the result the
utmost order prevailed. The issue was not long in
doubt. Both men fell, Blackburn underneath ;
but the umpires decided against the fall. The men
closed again, and both tried the cross-buttock, but
Miller getting the under hold scored the final fall,
and ended the match. Blackburn showed by odds
the most science, but Miller’s strength proved too
much for him.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
There have been several attempts to form
a football club in Noumea, but, so far, there has
been no success beyond purchasing the ball. And,
as usual, the cricket club of which so much was
expected has collapsed The Adelaide Archery
Club fired a match against the Canterbury (N.Z.)
Club. Scores respectively, 1370 and 754—A one
mile match for £25 a side came off at Blackali (Q.)
on October 31 between Mr. Roberts’ bay horse
Sterling, 12st. lib., and Mr. Morrison’s bay horse
Ruthven. 10st. 71b. The light weight won easily.
Decided to form a Taftersall’s Club in Bris-
bane The Croydon and West Sydney cricket
clubs played for Steadman Junior Cup on Wales’
Birthday. West Sydney, first Innings, 5; second,
13. Croydon’s first, 294 In Victoria, to earn a
wager, a man skinned 438 rabbits in 60 minutes—
Four Tapanui (N.Z.) bicyclists rode from Tapanui
to Dunedin on Oct. 7 —a distance of 100 miles
Campbell defeated Meehan in a hundred yards
spin for £2O, at Blackali The Qubanbeyan
Times states that M’Ternan was hocussed before
he started in the match against Friar, at
Braidwood, and gives, in plain Saxon, a most
unsavoury account of the medical aspect of
the case. M’Ternan, however, won the race
A match was played on Wednesday week last, on
the Association Ground, between the second
elevens of the University and Carlton Clubs, which
resulted in a victory for the former by 59 runs, the
scoring being—University, 149; Carlton, 90 ..The
Parramatta Orientals and Alfreds played a match
on Friday last. Orientals, 130; Alfreds, 113—The
Britannia and Botany Clubs met at Botany last
Saturday, when the former won. Britannia, 104 ;
Botany, 38... The presence of a 14 ft. alligator off
the Rockhampton Rowing Club sheds lends a
pleasant excitement to outrigger rowing on the
Fltzroy....E. Hillyard and Hurley’s blackboyare
to run 130 yards at Charters Towers, for £lOO, the
darkey to receive three yards’ start—Welcome
Jack’s dam. Miss Flat, has dropped a foal to
Apremont At Mudgee, Greenaway was de-
feated by Fleming, 130 yards, tenner a side—
A 3 ft. California salmon has been killed in the
Opihi River, N.Z...” Deerfoot” recently attempted
to run ten miles in the hour, at Brewarrina. He
only covered nine and a quarter miles—Swan,
the well-known ped., recently matched himself to
walk three men for six days, at Mount Gambler,
S.A. He was beaten by 71 miles—W. Jobson and
A. M’Leod ran 150 yards for £BO, at Taree. M'Leod
won, in 15% seconds The Argus telegraphic
message of the result of the Cup race was sent
right through from Melbourne (V.) to Wellington
(N.Z.) in 31 seconds, which is the greatest feat of
“telegraphing” ever performed in Australia
The footrace between Donoghue and Southion,
which took place on the Show Ground, Glen Innes,
recently, was won by the former. Donoghue has
been matched against Malone, 150 yards, and
Malone concedes Donoghue 6 yards. The race will
come off at Glen Innes some time during the
present m0nth....£2819 were put through the
totalisator during the two days’ racing at Oamaru,
.. In a cricket match at Gundagai, Frank Jenkins
was struck under the ear with the ball and knocked
hors de combat.
• • •
Harry Dunn, American wrestler, has chal-
lenged Slade to wrestle for £lOO or upwards... An
English Marquis, whose heavily backed horse lost
the race, having deprived the beast of saddle and
bridle, gave him a cut of a whip, saying “Anybody
catching you can stick to you.” The brute was
caught, but the new owner could neither sell nor
feed him The crack American trotter Jay Eye
See is named after he initials of his owner, Jerome
I. Case. A peculiar habit of this young horse is
found in his manner of eating his hay and oats.
When fed, a pail of water is placed near his box of
oats. He will take a mouthful of oats, stick his
nose in the water, take another mouthful of oats,
again dip his nose in the water, and so on con-
tinually, until his grain Is eaten up clean. He
then proceeds the same way with his hay, until he
has consumed a liberal supply. In this way he
avoids the evil effects of dusty hay or oats
It is stated Captain Matthew Webb was a bicyclist
and tricyclist, and a holder of a patent in connec-
tion with both class of machines.. By the victory of
Britomartis in the Yorkshire Oaks, Lord Falmouth
has now won that race six times within the last
nine years, or seven times in all —namely, with
Gertrude in 1870, Spinaway in 1875, Lady Golightly
in 1877, Jannette in 1878, Wheel of Fortune in 1879,
Dutch Oven in 1882, and Britomartis in 1883.... A
nigger who was driving a crack trotter, says the
Spirit of the Times, and who was doing a
“shunt,” at one of the meets in America, was
called up and cautioned about “laying” back.
The darkey replied: “ This is a stiff mouffed boss,
jedge, and you ken’t tell if Use pullin’ by lookin’
at him.” However, the darkey won the next three
heats off the reel.
V.R.C. Spring Races.
THE OAKS DAY— November 8.
[FROM PEGASUS.]
Notwithstanding the title of “ The Ladies’ Day”
belongs of right to the Thursday of the Melbourne
Spring carnival, the day, like what are styled “ off
days ” elsewhere, has heretofore been marked by
its small attendance, rendered the more striking,
of course, by the contrast it affords to the mar-
vellous gathering of the previous Tuesday ; and
true lovers of racing have always been agreed
that The Oaks Day is the most enjoyable of the
quartette, This year there has been a considerable
increase on former years in the number of visitors
on each day respectively, the Derby Day having
been more like some previous Cup Day; and there
was assembled on Thursday a much larger crowd
than ever I saw collected to see the Oaks. The
weather was fine, the racing good, and there were
not people enough present to prevent one finding
one’s friends comfortably after each race; so it
came to pass that occupants of the Grand Stand
and Lawn, as well as those of “The Hill,” were
enabled to enjoy the sport from start to finish,
while realising all the comforts and conveniences
the V.R. Club sets out for its patrons. Moreover,
it was known, in the morning, that some of the
best horses of the season would sport silk—to wit,
Archie, Sardius, First Demon, Le Grand, lolanthe,
and others,—which no doubt caused many habitues
of the course to go who would otherwise have
stayed at home, minding their business; and the
racing was quite up to the standard of excellence
good horses should show. As the Cup day was
remarkable for the unbroken’suceesses of favour-
ites, so Thursday gave the books a turn, through
a totally opposite state of things, each event being
won by an outsider, though The Israelite was
backed to win ten thousand pounds. But beyond
the money of stables and stable friends on Brown
and Rose, Le Grand, and Magnet, the public hardly
picked a winner during the afternoon. Before
telling of the day’s doings, I need only add that
the clearness of the atmosphere once more con-
duced to very fast time for all the events except
the Oaks, which did not evidence as high quality
in the three-year-old fillies as in the colts. The
only accident during the day happened to the
rider of The Broker in the Flying Stakes, through
the girths breaking just as the colt was being
pulled up after passing the winning-post. The
boy got a shaking, and was carried into the sad-
dling paddock; but he soon recovered, and was
walking about shortly afterwards.
The opening event was the Maiden Plato, for
which Dukedom was made a hot favourite, at
about 5 to 4 on him, next to him coming Tabletop
at 3 to 1, while Iron Hand had some friends; but
the St. Albans colt only got third, and Dukedom
was never dangerous. Vernet and Iron Hand
were most of the time in front, till the turn for
home, where Dukedom joined Vernet, Iron Hand
beating a retreat; but below the distance Napier
got up in the inside and established a decided lead,
which he kept unchallenged to the end, winniug
easily by three lengths from Capri, with Tabletop
third. Time, same as the Derby, 2.39J4- The
winner, bred in the Glenormiston stud, is by King
Cole from Frou Frou, and was ridden by Walker;
Capri, ridden by O’Brien, by Yaitendon from
Mandragora; and Dukedom by Maribyrnong from
Duchess, piloted by Moore. The Flying Stakes
brought out fifteen, as little as 2 to 1 being taken
about lolanthe, while 6 to 1 could be got about
Brown and Rose. These two got best away, but in
the course proper Honeydew was leading and
looking well. At the distance, Mr. Bales’ colt gave
way, and at the stand the favourite looked as
if she had her race won; when Mr. Smart’s filly
came out on the extreme outside with a rush I
never saw excelled, and just won on the post by a
neck; David, three lengths away, third; Garfield,
Honeydew, and Mozart next. Brown and Rose,
by Somnus —Giggler, was ridden by Gougn ;
lolanthe, by Maribyrnong—Rosedale, ridden by
Ellis; and Dobson rode David, who is by Gondolier
—Alice Drew. Time, 1.16. Before the race, Mr.
Forester told me Brown and Rose would do it in
the time exactly. The Spring Handicap was a
great surprise, after The Israelite’s previous run-
ning at the meeting, and fifteen starters again
faced the flag, of which Yately was about the best
favourite. The grey made most of the running,
as if he meant staving there: but, once landed in
the straight, The Israelite came to the front, and
from this never left the race in doubt, golloping
home an easy winner by three or four lengths.
Yately ran gamely home, and beat Fryingpan for
second; Claptrap was fourth, and Omelette headed
a long tail. The Israelite, by Blue Gown—Tin-
finder, was ridden by O’Brien; Yately and Frying-
pan respectively by Williamson and Power. Time,
2.1014. For the Royal Park Stakes, Archie was
backed at evens; but he looked terribly stale
and jaded after his drilling in the Cup ; and
didn’t get a place. Sardius made the running,
followed by Hurricane, Archie, and First Demon,
to the Sheds, where Hurricane and St. Lawrence
went up to the leader, and raced him into the
straight, where Hurricane got up in the inside,
and Le Grand began to look prominent on the out.
At the distance the Queenslander put in hia claim,
and a grand set-to between him and Sardius ended
in the former just getting home first, Hurricane
third, and First Demon last. Time, 2.10M, The
winner and Sardius carried a penalty of 31o. each,
Demon and St. Lawrence the same, and Archie 71b.
Le Grand, ridden by O’Brien, is by Epigram-
Legend ; Sardius, by Emulation—Ruby, was
ridden by Wyman, and Hales was on Hurricane,
who is by Countryman—Serenity. The Oaks
afforded another startler, Olga, with 7 to 4 on her,
being looked upon as a certainty; but she cut up
badly, and I think a mile about the length of her
tether. After the first hundred yards Little Sister
made play, Olga, Quality, and Hawkesbury fol-
lowing to the Abattoirs, where Olga tried con-
clusions with the St. Albans filly, and Duenna lay
last. Olga lasted into the straight, when Duenna
came on the outside, and the favourite seemed
to be done with from that point, the grey
leading towards home, with the race appa-
rently in hand. But Quality made a fine
rush inside the distance, and finishing much
the faster, won the race out of the fire by a neck,
Little Sister a bad third, and Olga fourth. Time,
2.43M- Quality, by the Professor—Dolores, ridden
by Power; Duenna (O’Brien) is by Lecturer-
Signora ; and Little Sister, on whom was St.
Albans, is by King of the Ring—Maid of All Work.
The Veteran Stakes wound up the work, and
ended in the overthrow of another favourite, who
started with only 6 to 4 against him, in a field of
fourteen, the winner going out at 4 to 1. Koh-i-
Noor showed first in front, but was soon sup-
planted by who cut out the work, followed
by Kathleen Mavoumeen and Phantom, till round-
ing into the straight, where the grey came up
alongside of Attache, and Marchioness on the
outside looked very dangerous. Magnet made his
run two distances from home, and singling out at
the distance, won very comfortably by a long
length from Aide-de-Camp, with the Marchioness
third, then Koh-i-Noor, First Water, and Sardonyx.
Time, 2.39. Magnet by Vagabond—Magic Lantern,
ridden by Power ; Aide-de-Camp by Tim Whiffler
—Killarney (Hales); The Marchioness, ridden by
Manan. The following are particulars of weights
Maiden Plate, H mile, weight for age: Mr.
Lang’s Napier, 3yrs., 1; Mr. Wallace’s Capr;, 3yrs.,
2; Mr. Branch’s Dukedom, 3yrs., 3. Iron Hand,
King’s Son, Vernet, Tabletop, not placed.
Flying Stakes, % mile, weight for age: Brown
and Rose, 2yrs.< 1; lolanthe, 2yrs., 2; David, 2yrs.,
3. Merrimu, Goodwood, Mozart, Antoinette,
Sirocco, Garfield, Gratitude, Sandal, Tichborne,
Honeydew, King’s Own, Broker, not placed.
Spring Handicap, VA mile: The Israelite, 5yrs.,
7.5, 1; Yately, aged, 7.6, 2; Fryingpan, 4yrs., 8.11,3;
Allander, Claptrap, Baron Von Mueller, Santa
Claus, Malua, Bassanio, Linda, Footstep, Norfolk,
Coup d’Etet, Uproarious, Omelette, not placed.
The Royal Park Stakes, 1)4 mile, weight for
age.—Le Grand, 3 yrs, 1; Sardius, 3 yrs, 2; Hurri-
cane, 3 yrs, 3. Archie, St. Lawrence, First Demon,
not placed.
The Oaks, \\4 mile.—Hon. W. Pearson’s Quality,
1; Mr. Wallace’s Duenna, 2; Mr. Branch’s Little
Sister, 3. Olga and Hawkesbury not placed.
Oaks Winners since 1872 —1873, Rose d’Amour;
’74, Gaslight; ’75, Maid of All Work; ’76, Briseis;
’77, Pardon; ’78, Melita; ’79, Petrea; ’80, Sapphire;
’81, Royal Maid; ’82, Vaucluse; ’83, Quality.
The Veteran Stakes (handicap), V& mile.—
Magnet, 4 yrs, 7.12, 1; Aide-de-Camp, 4 yrs, 8.3, 2;
The Marchioness, 6 yrs, 6.10, 3. Sardonyx, First
Water, Willeroo, Anglesey, Phantom, Beimont,
Merman, Squireen, Attache, Kohinoor, and Kath-
leen Mavoumeen, not placed.
MURRUMBIDGEE TURF CLUB WEIGHTS.
Hurdles.— Dundreary,11.9; Songster, 11.0; Rose-
wood, 10.7; Byron, 10.4; Wrangler, 10.2; Counter
Jumper, 10.0; Peter, 9.12 ; Coquette, 9.10; Royal
Charlie, 9.7; Hector, 9.7; Cassio, 9.5; Crusader, 9.3;
Young Banana, 9.3; Idalia, 9.0.
Steeplechase. -Squire, 11.10; Songster, 11.7 ;
Shamrock, 11.5; Wrangler,10.1; Juggler,10.0; Peter,
912; Coquette, 9.10; Royal Charlie, 9.7; Cassio, 9.5;
Hotspur, 9 5; Young Banana, 9.3; Crusader, 9.3;
Idalia, 9.0.
Wagga Cup, 1}4 mile.— The Drummer, 9.3; The
Gem,9.0; 8tockdale,8.11; Morpeth,8.9; Cunnamulla,
8.9; Colstoun, 8.7; Odd Trick, 8.7; Pell Mell, 8.7;
Soldier Boy, 8.5; Masquerade, 8.5; Archie, 8.3;
Allander, 8.3; Despot, 8.0; Britisher, 8.0; First
Demon, 7.10; Master A venal, 7.11; Yately,
7.9; Balmoral, 7.9: Jessie. 7.7; Lord of the Lake, 7.7;
Coelabah,7.5; Belmont, 7.5; Primus, 7.3; Capri, 7.3:
Favo,7.0; Squireen, 7.0; Normon,7.0; Prudence, 7.0;
Countryman (late Cetewayo), 6.12; Terminus, 6.12;
Mistake, 6.10; Robert the Devil, 6.10; Omadhaun,
6.10; Dizzy, 6.10; Turretlield, 6.9; Gloucester, 6.9;
Mystery, 6.9; Hope, 6.7; Here’s Luck, 6.7; The
Bean, 6.7; Eva, 6.5.; Kathleen Mavoumeen, 6.5;
Sportsman, 6.5; Macaroni, 6.5; Friendship, 6.3:
Orestes, 6.3; Boniface, 6.0; Doefoot filly, 6.0; Le
Beau, 6.0; Peveril,6.0; Pinafore, 6.0; Armldale, 6.0:
Bryan O’Lynn, 6.0; Baron, 6.0
Grandstand Handicap.— Drummer 9.7, Stock-
dale 9.3, Morpeth 9.0, Odd Trick 8.12, Masquerade
8.10, Allander 8.8, Yately 8.6, First Demon 8.4,
Despot 8.4, Britisher 8.2, Squireen 8.0, Capri 7.12,
Lord of the Lake 7.12, Coolabah 7.10. Belmont 7.10,
Primus 7.8, Bonnie Bee 7.8, Norman 7.6, Mistake 7.6,
Faust 7.6, Robert the Devil 7.4, Prudence 7.4, Ter-
minus 7.4, Hope 7.2, Omadhaun 7.2, Gloucester 7.2,
The Bear 7.0, Mystery 7.0, Dizzy 7.0, Eva 6.12, Bom-
face 6.12, Kathleen Mavourneen 6.10. Sportsman 6.10,
Friendship 6.8, Orestes 6.8, Rejected 6.6, Emulation
6.6, Doefoot filly 6.4, Le Beau 6.4, Peveril6.2, Bryan
O’Lynn 6.2, Pall Mall 6.0, Pinafore 6.0, Mane (br f,
4 yrs) 6.0, Armidale 6.0.
In a case of embezzlement tried at the
recent Quarter Sessions, Judge Dowling con-
gratulated the Singer Sewing Machine Company
on the excellent way in which their books were
kept. And the next time a Chinaman saws oH his
pardner’s” head, some learned Judge will pro-
bably compliment Messrs. Mappin and Company on
the superior quality of their half-guinea razors.
The coolest man in this island is a certain
Herbert River mailman. This Mercury, in the
course of his duty, arrived at a certain station,
and found the manager up to his ears in grief for
the loss of the station cook, who had collided
with a blackfellow’s spear the day previous.
Being a soft-hearted man, Mercury offered to stay
and cook for a fortnight at the same wages the
other hash-purveyor received, and added, with
tears in his eyes, that he’d willingly stay for a
month, only that would delay the mails too much
altogether. So the mailman remained, and the
mail bags kept him company.
The “Zoo” management advertises that
the activity of the monkeys is truly surprising and
their antics truly astonishing.” Here is a little
story in illustration of the remarkable truth of
the above-quoted informationOne day last Sep-
tember the monkey of Mr. Rowbottom, of Putney
(Eng.), succeeded in getting loose. It was sub-
sequently found sitting on a fender in another
house. A little girl threw a cinder at it, and the
monkey returned the compliment with a well-
aimed lump of coal. She ran out and shut the
door. The monkey then got out of the house, and
entered another two or three yards off, helped
itself to sugar, and scattered some cocoa about the
place. It also bit the leg of the lady who lived in
the house. The monkey having returned to the
house where the aforesaid little girl resided, killed
a chicken, and helped Itself to a number of eggs.
But, as Phil Robinson remarks somewhere, “ Mon-
keys are metaphysics.”
During the recent hearing of an affiliation
case at Gundagai quite a lively little breeze sprang
up between the Bench and the Bar. The Bar (Mr.
Perkins), it appears, was probing certain matters
too deeply, when the Bench (Mr. Love) chipped in
and said : If you persist, Mr. Perkins, In asking
such filthy questions, I will take steps to stop you.
Mr. Perkins : Very well, sir, I shall place myself
under the protection of the Supreme Court. Mr.
Love (to Mr. Weekes): Stop, Mr. Weekes,—put a
note down saying I stopped Perkins from asking a
filthy question. Mr. Perkins: I am not in the
habit of being addressed as “ Perkins”—you might
say Mr. Perkins. I did not ask an indecent ques-
tion. Mr. Love: If your question was not an
Indecent one, then I don’t know where your sense
of decency lies. Mr. Perkins (to Mr. Weekes): Put
the question, sir. Mr. Love : He shall not I—I’ll
not allow the book to be contaminated—sit down,
sir I Mr. Perkins: I’ll sit down when I like. And
there the conversation ended.
We can vouch for the truth of the follow-
ing tale, because we got it from a land-sale auc-
tioneer, and we never knew one of those gentle-
men to tell a lie yet—except on business. Down
Dunedin way they have heaps of fun with the
sharks. “ A shark,” says Cuvier, “ is like an office-
seeking politician, and will eagerly snap at any-
thing that’s thrown to him.” So the jokers go out
in boats, armed with alarm clocks, and throw them
to the guileless fish as they go loafing around after
stray victuals. The shark swallows the alarm
clock, which is set to go off a few minutes later.
Pretty soon the catch on the alarm lets go, and
then the shark at once turns pale, tries to vomit
the clock, and says “Now I lay me down to die.”
and then he begs others to forgive him as he for-
gives them, and the people in the boat roll about
on tne deck and scream with laughter till their
sides fairly ache. Of course the shark gets “ what
for ” the first time he enjoys this experience, but
by and by, he gets used to the fun, and some even
flop on shore and g i to the nearest watchmaker’s
• nd ask for a key to wind up the clock that’s in
them. Others keep the clocks to time themselves
in their trial swims, and others trade them off to
the simple savages for pickled pork and fat babies.
In Carlton, Victoria, the latest London
system of having a constable stationed at a fixed
point day and night has been adopted. Ail that is
required to keep a constable at a fixed point by
day is to provide him with a chair, a newspaper,
and a gallon of beer, and tell him there’s a man
being murdered in the next street. And all that is
necessary to anchor him at night is for the Master
and Missus to go to bed, so as to enable Jemima
Ann to ’eat the ’ash for Robert, whilst he squatty-
voas down near the stove, and sings :—
“ Shure it’s no matther what y’ do.
For if ye tip th’ man in blue,
Faix, he’ll always pull you through,
Will a Mimbir av th’ Foorce.
“ But, though you may fall the ditch in,
Into grub in some man’s kitchin
You can bet that he's a pitchin’,
Loike a Mimbir av th’ Foorce.
“ For, wid cooky kapln’ senthry,
He foinds enthry to the pantfiry;
Och! the fastist fadin’ gintry
Are the Mimbirs av th’ Foorce.
“ Then may his shadow ne’er decraise.
Nor the shmoile lave his darlin’s face,
Till on his knee she’ll proudly place
A young Mimbir av th’ Foorce.
“ Musha, Nee-yagh-h-h. Och hone 1”
That Husband of Mine is three times the man
he was before he began using “Wells’ Health
Renewer.” Druggists. Moses, Moss & Co., Sydney
General Agents.
Motto for the new New South Wales Fruit
Company—The men who can I Mott© for the
Holy Joeys:—The men who cant 1
A Surry Hills man was recently “run in ”
for pretending to be a constable. The principal
evidence against him was the fact that he was
caught fast asleep at 2 a.m. in a Bourke-street
verandah. Now he studies geology, under Pro-
fessor Reid, at the Darlinghurst Academy.
TO M’ELHONE.
Of all your gifts, to us you’ve given
The gift of tongues—your best;
And now, sir, in the name of Heav’n,
Give us a rest!
A cynic writes: Modern humour is a
broader, deeper, altogether different thing from
ancient humour, because Christianity has
everything big with infinite solemnity. A possible
moral meaning is secreted over the whole surface
of life, like the scented oil in the cells on the su i-
-of an orange skin. Think, for example, <>f
that flower of Christian civilisation, the innuendo.
That is simply the adroit saying under difficulties
of what, but for Christianity, every one would
have taken for granted. The wit, the humour, the
innuendo, all owe their flavour to Christianity. And
all our finer pleasures are indebted for their chief
taste to it likewise. Love, for instance, is, as
everybody knows who has felt it, the coarsest and
most foolish of all our feelings. Leave it free to
do what it pleases, and we soon, cease to care what
it does. But Christianity, with a miraculous
ingenuity, has confined and cramped it into so
grotesque and painful a posture, and set such
vigilant guardians to keep it there, that any re-
turn to its natural freedom is a rapture, an adven-
ture, and a triumph which none but the wisest and
most skilful can compass with grace or safety, and
which wise men, therefore, think worth compass-
ing.
It seems that the Queen’s favourite author
is George Eliot, though she is also very partial to
Wilkie Collins. Her Majesty pretends to, rather
than really likes the works of Dickens, much of
the motif of those books being inexplicable to a
lady—who, however excellent she may be in prin-
ciple, however passionate in her sympathies (as
evinced in the case of John Brown, Esq., deceased)
—is unable, by reason of her surroundings, to
guage the meaning and appreciate the humour of
Dickens’s masterly pictures of realism. And the
word realism brings us to what we intended to be
the back-bone of this par. Nearly every one, in
these days, has heard of Emile Zola, the author of
“L’Assommoir,” and the founder of a supposed
new school of realistic writing'. In “ L’Assommoir ”
—which treats of the evils of drinking, and which,
however hideously it is set down, contains a strong
moral lesson, M. Zola would have been supposed
by many who have read that work in the origlnu 1
(as of course we have), to have reached the ex-
treme length of hideous description. Very far
from it, however. Not to speak of Pot Bouillo ’
and “Au Bonheur des Dames” (the latter
founded on the internal economy of a largo
drapery establishment), which are utterly untrans-
latable, there is “Nana”—supposed “Suite de
L’Assommoir,” which deals of the inner life of u
Parisian theatre, &c., and which is in itself
a revelation as to what it is possible for
a man to write who is gifted with great
descriptive power—which latter, it must be
stated, is hampered by no considerations of either
line feeling or of the advisability of sacrificing one
lota to the picturesque. “ Nana ” has gone
through over one hundred and eighteen edi-
tions, and Zoli is now one of the wealthiest of
French authors! He is described as being a com-
mon-place looking man, rather stout, and of
medium height, with a peculiar inquisitive air of
the Paul Pry order. His most recent novel—
Bonheur des Dames”—is a comparative failure.
Dr. Simms says the empires of philosophy
are more extensive, more potent, more enduring
than the empires of kings. He cites the reign of
Herod, Roderick the Great, the Ptolemys, Bryan
Boiroifame, Malcolm (Ceanmohr), the Napoleons,
Maxmllian of Mexico, as passed, their empires
and kingdoms destroyed ; while the idealism of
Plato, the naturalism of Aristotle, the philosophy
of Socrates, Erotosthenes, Confucius, Mahomed,
Copernicus, Galileo, Descartes, Bacon, Locke, and
others, remain, and are eternal.*
Newspaper Paragraph: “The new Sum-
mer costume has been issued to the
police.”


JPIUENITUBB SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring 1 streets, Sydney.
Hall furniture, hatstands”
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
LIBRARY FURNITURE, CENTREand SIDE
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley’
Newton, and Lamb.
Furniture.— the largest stock in
THE COLONY. BRADLEY. NEWTON, and
LAMB, O Connell-street.
MARBLRTOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurant
smoking rooms, &c.
EDR.OOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for sinc-1*
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney. ’
IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES —The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street. ’
from 20s*
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, fram 355; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash,
stands, from 10s 6dl: Tables, from 7s 6d; Wardrobes
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20s; 6edar ChifS
niers, from 255; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s •
Kitchen Dressers, from 80s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell ai
streets, Sydney.
I and Spring
85s.
BRADLEY
NEWTON,
and LAMB,
SYDNEY.
jYERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
W able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.,
/"NHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
Vy just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
ASY OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY,
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
RA WING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES,
ces, from 12s 6d.
D
Prici
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
INING-ROOM SUITE, complete, 40 Guineas.
1 DINING-ROOM SUITE, comprising 5-FEET
ULY ENGLISH SIDEBOARD, MAHOGANY
EXTENDING DINING TABLE, with patent
screw and two 1 aves: LARGE PIER GLASS,
COUCH, GENT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAlRcovered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
D
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
JARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Ormolu.
VERY ELEGANT items for Drawing-room.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Framework for~dining-room furni-
ture, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
EDSTE ADS, nickel-plated and black and brass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
B
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell-street.
W
ASHSTANDS, with marble, 23s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS, 20s; Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB. O’Connell-street.
B
ENT WOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment; best make, hra est prices.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, Iron Safes (all sizes)
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
ICE CHESTS, all sizes, very superior make. Ex-
amine before purchasing. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
OMMODE CHAIRS, BIDETS with panT
SHAVING STANDS. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
JAPANESE BLINDS, for Verandahs, BxB, lls7
9 x 8,135; 10 x 8,145. BRADLEY. NEWTON,
and LAMB.
T BIN WAY NEW YORK PIANOS, the FINEST
in the world. A SHIPMENT just landed.
S'
CELEBRATED PIANOS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB
have received
another LARGE SHIPMENT
of
R. LIPP and SONS’ celebrated PIANOFORTES
direct from the Makers, comprising’ TALL
GRANDS, LITTLE UPRIGHT GRANDS, SA-
LOON GRANDS, VERY HANDSOME and of the
HIGHEST CLASS FINISH,
WALNUT and BLACK GOLD.
WE HAVE NOW THE LARGEST STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA OF
LIPP’S PIANOS
TO SELECT FROM.
WE INVITE INSPECTION.
VATB SALE AT EXTREMELY LOW j
FOR PRIVATE
PRICES.
BRADLB7, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Pianoforte Importers,
O’Connell and Spring streets.
“ Ouida ” angrily denies her reported in-
sanity.
A Sdbubban Hotel Retreat. —The rail-
way and tram communication now thoroughly
well established has undoubtedly brought the city
and suburbs together to an extent never antici-
pated. Tne result is that an enormous population,
formerly crowded into the city, finds an enjoyable
retreat in the suburbs, with increased comlort and
improved health. And what has been done in this
way as homes for families, one or two large hotels
on the suburban lines are doing for people
without encumbrances. One suburban hostelrie
that has been a particular success in this way
is the Summer Hill Hotel, now conducted
by Mr. H. Wakeham. This well-known hotel is
about one of tne best-built edifices in or about
Sydney, having spacious balconies, and fine, well-
ventilated bedrooms, altogether affording accom-
modation of a superior description. The upper
portion of the house is furnished with bedrooms
and parlours, which must be a perfect treat
to professional men who, engaged all day in
the city, desire at evening a change, fresh
air, and undisturbed quiet. Accommodation is
being offered to single gentlemen, and in this
way the hotel has been largely availed of.
'Xu. hotel Is under the personal supervision of Mr.
Wakeham himself, who has put the place in rare
fl rst-class order, and as every attention is paid to
the table, and the wines, spirits, &c., the popularity
01 the house is certain to continue. A fine billiard
table is one of the attractions of the hotel.
Situated within a few yards of the station, a
person reaches town from the hotel in a few
minutes by train and tram, which now run at very
Short intervals throughout the day.*
When Wolfe’s Schnapps was first given
to the public, many discredited the worth of the
great cordial. To-day, it stands without a rival
elixir in the catalogue of magnificent tonics and
stimulants.
SOCIAL.
Lady Loftus holds a reception at Govern-
ment House this day, at 3 p.m.
•
The Australia was beautifully clean and
trim for the regatta, and with cool weather and
the Coldstream Band, the day passed pleasantly.
It was very quiet, though, or, as some said, slow.
His Excellency went on board at noon, and spoke
a few words, and luncheon took place in the cabin
between 1 and 2, with a few short speeches.
Among the visitors were seen Mr. Cameron (Mayor
of Balmain), Messrs. W. A. Hutchinson, J. Garrard,
G. Merriman, M.’sP., Hon. F. A. Wright, Rev. T.
Kemmis, Captain Bloomfield, and a number of
officers. Of ladies, the attendance was large,
some with enormous hats, many in white, and one,
in blue check, of the sweetest type of beauty.
The competitors must have felt complimented,
supposing they knew how many fair ones on the
Australia wore : heir colours. A married lady in
white bishop’s lawn sported long blue streamers
that not only advertised her partiality, but
beautified a very neat dress ; and a light
blue dress was also conspicuous by reason of
its bright tri-coloured ribbons. A whole parterre
of buttercups nestled under the gigantic hat of a
girl in grey zephyr, and rich yellow roses at the
breast and waist of a deep cream muslin. The
ex-Mayor’s daughters were in black; the wife of a
member of the Cabinet also. Several of tie
prettiest summer toilets, in muslin, cambric, etc.,
were of a peculiarly rich cream, far deeper than
the ordinary. We don’t know what it’s called, but
you can see the exact shade if you look into the
heart of a magnolia. A handsome dara girl wore
one, hat and feather to match. A cashmere of
cornflower blue with coat-tails and cream roses at
throat, was perfect in its way; pure white India
muslin and silver belt were on a beauty; a very
fair young lady, over skirt of flounced cream lace,
wore crushed strawberry nun's veiling, of a nice
soft tint; and a slate satin and broche was rich.
There was a bright girl in a grey gingham that
seemed the essence of taste—one of those pretty
styles that men admire, though they can’t say why.
• ♦ *
Cup costumes were not wonderfully grand;
indeed simple fabrics ruled, and plain, pure white
was seen again and again. Yet terra-cotta was
popular; so were long coloured gloves; so were
Henri 11. hats. Loudness was there, and a little
vulgarity-finery needlessly heaped up, and fast
colours enraging one another; but they were ca-
ceptlons to the general taste. Lady Clarke wore
cream cashmere and lace, with bows of ruby
velvet; Mrs. Sydney Smith, ivory white combined
with pale blue; Mrs. J. P. Ryan, sapphire blue
satin and broche; Mrs. Malleson, skirt of ficelle
lace trimmed with jet drops, redingote of black
satin with ficelle lace front, white bead bonnet;
Misses Jennie and Ada Lee, both cream spotted
muslin with printed flowers thereon, and brown
ruches edging skirts, little brown bonnets; Mdme.
Tasca, brown broche and feathers; Signora Maje
roni, invisible green (almost black) satin with pale
blue chenille fringe and ribbons; Mrs Halfey.
cream satin skirt with rich design of birds and
butterflies, waterfall of sapphire velvet, velvet
bodice and satin waistcoat: Mrs. J. S. Butters, a
noticeable lavender satin with deep pearl fringe,
violet bows, clouds of lavender tulle floating from
neck to heels: Mrs. Moubray, cream flounced skirt,
and long myrtle broche redingote; Mrs. T Leiu-
priere, snot ruby silk, with cream lace front; Mrs.
G Bruce, olive green satin with design of roses in
old gold. Lace parasols were legion, and crinolines
In their full reality. Not even Byron Moore’s great
preparations could meet all the needs of themigi.ty
crowd of the hot afternoon and the rush for liquid
relief. Conventionality had to give way to dire
necessity, and lovely woman had to put the lemon-
ade bottle to her lips: had to, or it would never,
never have been done.
• • •
Two ladies appeared in riding habits. Miss
Clarke, of Sunbury wore a pretiy white silk,
decked with ribbons of mashed strawberry ; Mrs.
Byron Moore, an olive green sateen, combined
with fancy floral pattern, lace vest; Mrs. C. B.
Fisher, a peacock satin and brocade; Lady
Murphy, black grenadine and lace ; Miss Ivanova,
black silk rococo skirt, corsage, and bronze velvet
trimmed hat; Madame Carandini, Ottoman and
broche of terracotta, bonnet matching; Mrs.
Coppin, gold and brown brocade ; Mrs. Donald
Wallace, black net and broche dress, with white
tube front, cottage Langtry wreathed with white
daisies ; Miss Emelie Melville, lovely in grosgrain
silk of canary tint and embroidery, hand-painted
in front, hat en suite ; Miss Grade Plaisted, cream
and great granny bonnet; Mrs. Hoflnung, hand-
some combination of pale lavender and light pink
brocade : and Mrs. Hurtle Fisher’s Worth costume
was considered one of the most sumptuous ever
displayed on Flemington lawn—skirt and bodice
were of moss green satin, shot with grenat hue, a
flounce was carried diagonally across the front
and ornamented with beads and green pompons,
side draperies were ecru satin embroidered, and
the bodice of green : the bonnet was grenat silk
tulle with green aigrettes, and the sunshade
with green points.
• • •
A pleasant private ball, on the co-opera-
tive principle, was arranged by some enterprising
young gentlemen of Balmain, on the 9th. Thirty
couples accepted the invitation of Messrs. A.
Klnnimont, A. Langley, Gates, &c., and 25 dances
comprised the programme. Hogg’s music was
good, als > Holding’s catering; and the ladies were
all good, of course, and most of t em beautiful.
Miss Chowne wore, perhaps, the nicest dress, rose-
pink plush and satin; Miss Schofield, black satin
and light blue trimming; and the belle was Miss
James, in black, and cream lace.
♦ * *
On the Block, the most noticeable feature
in ladies’ appearance is the size of hats. Some
girls wear them so that they have to turn
sideways to get into atramcar. It’s a matter of
amazement to male humanity how such slight
understandings can support such enormous speci-
mens of top-dressing. The Henri 11. hats, with
flattish brim and bands of black velvet, are
favoured. As a rule there’s not much beauty in
them; but there are exceptions. Sailor shapes are
worn a good deal, but many young ladies like the
poke shape. Fashionable dresses all have sleeves
raised high on the shoulder, and are made with
waterfall backs, or coat ends.
* * ♦
An enjoyable plain and fancy dress party
was given in the Oddfellows’ Hall, Orange, a* a
well-deserved compdment to Mr. Marsden, who
has taught most of the townspeople to point their
light fantastic toes a little better than they used to.
Music was good, and room crowded. Miss A.
Potter was H olly, Miss Marsden a Greek girl, Miss
Bean as Patience, Mrs. Blunt in a handsome mauve
sila, Mrs. Marsden in black silk; and the characters
of Red Ridinghood, Carmen, Buttercup, and a
lovely Night. An Orange man, who knows how
the people there used to dance in their primeval
state, considers Marsden the greatest reformer
since Martin Luther.
• •
The concert given by Miss Annie E.
Roberts on Monday night was excellent music.
The attendance was a good one, though we
believe the Luther show at the Exhibition,
operated as a co ntsr attraction. It is not
surprising that „he Monk who “shook me
world" should influence Miss Roberts audience.
She ought to have had most people, for several
reasons. Miss Roberts is very fair, and she is a
youug Australian ; whereas Martin Luthsr was
only a German, and he’s dead; aud besides, as he’s
going to have an entertainment every century,
there will be plenty more chances to hear about
him. Beethoven's “Pastoral f'ymphooy” was
executed by the lady, Herr Patek, and Herr
Francik, with taste and precision, as was also the
great Schubert's “Quintett.” We have a dark
suspicion that this last was written as a stringed
quartette, aud that the piano part has been
added since the lamented Schubert joined
the heavenly choir. But the addition it
no detriment, when played as It was on Mon-
day evening:. The “ Last Hope,” by Gottschalk”—
one of the most pathetic of piano solos—was
played by Miss Roberts with great feeling, and
quite deserved the encore it got. But why that
young lady should have selected such a dismal
piece as “ Some Day,” in response, is a mystery.
Among the singers, special praise is due to Miss E.
A. Foxall (Mrs. Dobbie) whose rendering of ‘‘Una
voce poco fa ” was finished and artistic to the ex-
treme. “ I dreamt that I dwelt ” was a welcome
change to some from the Italian, the very best of
which soon palls on ears familiarised to the sounds
of revival English and Salvation psalmody.
Mdme Marius sang well, and Signor Benfereri was
in magnificent form. He gave “ Vieni la mia
vendetta” as only a man who has played “Duke
Alfonso ” can give it. Mr. E. W. Foxall was not at
his best in “ Here upon my vessel’s deck,” but in
the duet from “Lucia,” with Mrs. Dobbie, he
“ spread ” himself to the extent of a decided
success. Those who know Miss Roberts’ capaci-
ties only regretted that that young lady did not
treat them to more of her own finished execution.
• • •
A plain and fancy party occurred in Goul-
burn Mechanics’ Institute last week, when a num-
ber of highly-coloured ladies’ dresses were seen.
Violin, piano, and flute made good music, and 24
dances brought four o’clock. Peacock blue and
roses indicates the belle.
* * *
The Imperial Assembly and Monthly Holi-
day Association held a plain and fancy ball in the
Town Hall, Armidale, on the 6th instant. Most
ladies wore fancy; Miss M'Roen was Patience;
Miss Denning. Nancy Lee; and Miss Coleman the
same character. Mrs. Mathews was Granny; and
an Orphan, Gipsy, &c., were among the rest.
Dancing was kept up till daylight, and the ball was
a most agreeable one.
•* * ♦
Miss Agnes Julia Fitzpatrick, youngest
daughter of the late Hon. Michael Fitzpatrick.M.P.,
was married recently to Mr. H. M. Gair, at Narra-
bri Great local interest was excited in Balmain
last week by the marriage of Dr. Evans, junior, to
Miss Evallne Taylor, daughter of Mr. John Taylor,
of that suburb. Numbers flocked to St. Mary’s
Church to witness the ceremony. White satin and
the usual accessories decked the fair bride, and
four maids wore blue satin while four chose
pink, and all their hats were millinery construc-
tions of the most overpowering kind—A wedding
soon to take place in a western suburb is causing
femine flutter. There will be ten bridesmaids,
some ladies from Shoalhaven and from Bowral
Oddfellows had a private ball at Cudal School of
Arts, on 2nd November. About fifty present, and
honours easy between a Blayney girl in pink and
white and a Toogong enchantress in blue and
white A large attendance at Ryedale, Ryde, on
Saturday afternoon, to witness a memorial bust of
herself presented to Mrs. Jane Darvall, a resident
there of over 40 years. Mr. C. Heydon, M.P.,
spoke, and Mrs. R. Terry unveiled the bust on the
grounds Refreshments and music followed
The gentlemen who have attended the Pomona
Floral Assembly through the season gave the
ladies an agreeable complimentary party on the
7th instant Flower show and ball at Moruya on
Friday last Mr. James M‘Gill, 40 years at Albion
Park, presentised on leaving Bazaars are all
over tne country—at Penrith, Windsor, Kiama,
Tamworth, Singleton; and at Bathurst, where the
lady president, Mrs. W. H. Suttor, opened with a
speech from the platform New City Baths
opened at Adelaide. Sydney people are quite
satisfied with their baths. At least, when a
white man has been into the Harbour
soup once, he doesn’t want to go again
Mr. William Gannon to Mias Helena Parry. Honey-
moon to the Melbourne Cup The Hon. Randolph
Rowley (youngest son of Lord Langford) to Miss
Rosetta Fletcher, at Katikati (N.Z.). Quiet cere-
mony, four maids in cream and crimson, bride in
fawn silk, and off to Auckland The citizens of
Noumea have obtained a hall by subscription, and
are starting a series of balls. Ladies jubilant at
the prospect of displaying their toilets and charms,
as there are eligible bacnelors in N.C. There was
even a fashionable lawn-tennis party there
recently, and the British Consul showed an atten-
tion to the ladies that did honour to hig flag. Mrs.
Atkinson gave the party Lady Clarke gives a
Srand ball in Melbourne Town Hall to-night—
ew Mayor of Melbourne, Mr. Smith, gave a large
inaugural dinner party to some 600 guests. Sir
Alfred Stephen a speaker The Victorian Minis-
try gave a large picnic down the Bay in the Nelson.
At the Owl Bal Masque, on Thursday night, the
best character was a ragged individual with a sui-
cidal cast of countenance, labelled (reckless of
grammar) “Broke at the Races.”—At Cripps’s
Hotel, Parramatta, a few days ago, the staff of the
Cumberland Mercury bade farewell to their late
editor, Mr. John Shaw, who is a good fellow, and a
racy, cultured, clever journalist. After refresh-
ments, Mr. W. S. Henderson proposed the guest’s
health, and other speeches and music followed
till 11 o’clock .Employes in Prince Alfred
Hospital presented Dr. Byrne, the retiring medical
superintendent, with silver service Hlllston
Assembly rooms opened with a ball Governor’s
ball in Melbourne was postponed because of the
death of Lady Constance Phipps, his youngest
daughter. Curiously, ''xactly similar postpone-
ment occurred last year, owing to the death of
His Excellency’s mother N.Z. paper says:—
“ Mrs. Dr. Potts” took £l5OO from Christchurch...
About four score present at Wilcanuia Boating
Club Ball, and £25 netted The wife of a promi-
nent Government official down Hokitiki way stood
a pinching, and kicking and pinching, and other
manifestations of love; but when her husband
called up the groom, and watched him throw her
out of the house, she thought forbearance ceased
to be a virtue, and went to the Supreme Court
Ladies on the Regatta Flagship wanted badly to
dance.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Lady Loftus’ Reception, Govt. House Nor. 15.
Prof. West’s Closing 1 Party, Town Ha 11... Nov. 33.
Woollahm Assembly Com. Ball, Nithsdale Nov. 23.
Gymnastic Sociable Nov. 33.
Cyclists’ Union Races Dec. 15.
Juvenile Exhibition opens, Parramatta.. Deo. 19.
The daughters of the Prince of Wales are
no longer treated as children.
A. certain Baratrarian dealer in second-
hand goods has in his employment several married
couples—the husbands are apparently soft-looking
mechanics. The ladies, on the other hand, are
handsome and gay, and seemingly just a trifle
giddy. Having selected a suitable field for opera-
tions (generally in the suburbs), one of the ladies
rents a house, which is immediately stocked by
our generous friend Mr. Allsorts. For a few weeks
everything go is serenely. The rent Is paid every
Monday morning, the butcher’s, baker’s, and
grocer’s bills are promptly met, and the whole
neighbourhood rejoices at having met such a nice,
respectable couple. Then comes the crash. The
heart-broken husband tells the woman next door,
in the strictest confidence, that his wife has eloped
with a soft goods bagman, and he implores her not
to mention a word of the sad affair to anyone-
knowing full well that that woman would die sud-
denly if she didn’t walk round at once and alarm
the whole district. All the women-folk suddenly
discover that they knew there was something
crooked about that brazen woman, and the unfor-
tunate husband cornea in for heaps of sympathy
from all sides. Then Mr. Allsorts appears on the
scene, and acts the part of Shylock. He holds a
bill of sale over all the furniture, and the poor
pseudo-mechanic has to stand by and see every
article In his once happy home sold to the highest
bidder. The other ladies and gentlemen in the
employ of Mr. Al'sortsare on hand, and any article
which does not fetch a price high enough to suit
Mr. Allsorta is religiously knocked down to them.
When the sale is over and everything squared up,
the heart-broken husband rejoins his wife, and the
pair, having pocketed their “ comish.,” start off
to play the same “roshy leedle game ” in a differ-
ent quarter. Sometimes the cruelly-illused hus-
band excites so much pity that a few of the neigh-
bours charitably club together, buy some of the
most necessary articles in the house, and present
them to him. Then he has to go behind a fence
and kick himself for twenty minutes, in order to
keep from splitting in two with laughter.
The Young Men’s Christian Association of
Victoria had a “day out” on that sinful sixth of
November when the Cup was run, and—to quote
from the Melbourne D.T.—it was “a Christian f4te
thoroughly characteristic and enjoyable.” Tents
were pitched at Frankston, “ close beside the local
Church of England building; outside the porch
tea and coffee were dispensed at considerate rates
by local philanthropists.” We are not told what
that “rate” was, but should imagine that a real
bona fide philanthropist (even a local one) could
contrive to supply coffee at a very “considerate”
figure—something like four cups a penny. After
coffee came recreation; “the Hon. James Balfour
Adelaide” (good gracious I), and then—under the
gave an interesting rexume of his recent trip to
soothing influence of the coffee-he grew forgiv-
ing, not to say ChadhandUih. “ Are we,” tsked the
Hon. J. B, “to speak harshly of those who
have gone to the races? Rather let us grieve
than despise; rather let us compassionate
than be contemptuous.’ As soon as the
young men and maidens had made up
their minds to compassionate the Flemington
people who were “running for a corruptible
crown” (D.T.), they strolled away, in Christian
couples, to quiet places; and the more Christian
the couple, the quieter the place. What a differ-
ence between the scenes at Flemington and Frank-
stoni—the fevered frenzy attendant on “backing
the favourite, ’ and , ho sweet discussion on Chris-
tianity In quiet places:—
The Christians’ Complaint.
The sinners they flock to the Flemington course
(The thought brings the tears to our eyes)
To lay out a sovereign, in sin, on a horse
(Our bosoms are bursting with sighs ;
But, though we, ourselves, are from weakness
exempt
Since to Y.M.C.A. we belong),
We’ll regard with compassion, and not with con-
tempt,
Those people who love to do wrong.
For “corruptible crowns” they are entered to
(They were “ entering” this morning in shoals); I
So, we will retire to some nice, quiet place, ,
And, in couples, will pray lor their souls:
For quite “ Incorrupt” is the race that we run
(We belong to the Y.M.C.A.); 1
But yet we contrive to have plenty of fun
In our own secret, sanctified way.
The demure dailies—who never “intrude
upon the priva ;y orthe "sanctity”—who shudder ,
at a Social par.-all "did” the Cup dresses I With ,
various decrees of style and success, or otherw.se.
Their style is like a small boy on the seashore,
splashing along the edge, and courageously scoop-
ing up a handful of water to see how it feels: he
won’t go into deep water till he sees another boy
go first—it might be dangerous. So the demure
dailies feel theii way. and watch each other. The
Age honestly gives the names of noted people, and
what they wore, but only gives very few. The
Argus devo es ih ee columns, of about the driest
stuff we ever iiad the misfortune to see in print, to
describing dresses. It mentions m names, and
gives no clue to wearers. It might as well have
sent a repo iter to .vloubray. Lush’s, and told him to
describe their stock; and the account would have
been just as interesting. Our own giddy-goody
little Echo, with partial prudence, thinks it safe
to pick out actresses and people with titles, but
mentions no one else. But the S.M. Herald —
what should be said of it ? Honestly speaking, we
do not know. The Herald has never been in
favour of “personal” journalism before; we hope
it will never try it again. It is from the S.M.
Herald of November 7 we learn that these were
some of the sights on Flemington lawn:—“An
atrocity of green plaid intensified with blue patches
struggling among black velvet, blended with ill-
assorted flowers, topped with an ill-fitting brown
bonnet, and surmounted with a fiercely red para-
sol, which threw a lurid fight upon an unhappy
face; a sweet face and noble figure completely
draped in grey silk; a mountain of flesh wrapped
in plum-coloured satin, having many projections:
another mountain of female humanity, covered
with brown silk, and having severe eyes; a pyra-
mid of woman, yellow satin at the base, a white
silk bonnet at the apex, and a middle zone of
breezy blue: another woman pyramid, whose apex
was lace, whose zone was represented by a red
velvet jacket, and whose base was solemn black;
a fiery face set off a fiery brown suk gown,
made hotter still with some kind of red
bronze trimming ; an attenuated form in
half mourning, tempered with withered flowers;
a sickly woman in sickly yellow silk, which hung
limp about her limbs: a ghostly face topping a
figure in the most funereal of black; a huge
woman in ulack satin, meandered with much drab
ribbon; an amazing solidity of flesh in voluminous
blue soft silk; another large creature in navy blue
satin, topped with a green umbrella; an elongation
of grimness in dull black, and veiled in rusty red;
a face broader than long, matche by a figure of
the same kind in pink and black silk; a dissatisfied
face at thfe summit of a robe of figured red velvet;
a thin face and a highly developed nose at the end
of a cluster o', red, white, and blue silk; a basis of
black, with a confusing relief of inharmonious
flowers; a dissatisfied face set in a huge bonnet
loaded with violets; a suspicious face over a rebe
of sickly pink lanknese; a sweet vulgarian in red
velvet; a comfortable old party in useful black
■ilk; a staring face out of a heap of staring blue, a
cheap kaleidoscope; a gloomy face in striped pink
silk; a field of snow, with islet* of raw beef; a
thunderstorm of black, with lurid streaks in the
weather-gleam: a comely ghost in grey;” besides
“ a solemn" face, a “ pale' face, a "merry” face, a
“cheerful” lace, a “heavenly” face, a “wiiibme”
face, a “winning” face, a “solemn form,” a
“thoughtful woman,” "an < yeglass in a sea of
brown silk,” a parasol like “striped red and black
stockings,’ and “our own Maggie Moore.” We
may be puzzled as to whether the author of this
laboriously original style of personal journalism is
man, woman, or neuter gender: but we cannot
deny that the writer shows a good deal of tact. It
will be observed no names are mentioned. For
obvious reasons, this is very prudent. Hallelujah I


LATE SPORTING.
At the National Agricultural Society’s Show held
n Melbourne a few days ago, the champion medal
for blood stock was won by Columbus, a son of
Smuggler and Alice Drew, Motea being second,
and the “twenty-year-old black demon,” The Barb,
third.
Mr. de Mestre talks of retiring from the Turf and
selling off the whole of his numerous stud.
Late arrivals from Melbourne say that Despot
broke down so badly in the Melbourne Cup that he
is not likely to race again. I hope the injury is not
so serious as anticipated, for although he has never
scored a win, he is one,' f the right sort, and his re-
tirement from the turf will be a big loss to his
owner.
Private information from Temora speaks in
glowing terms of the prospects of the forthcoming
race meeting.
It must have been galling to the Hon. Ja nes
White and the numerous followers of his stable
to see their latest “ cast off,” Brown and Hose (late
Charming), lower the colours of lolanthe, the Mari-
byrnong Plate winner, in the Plying Stakes; and
though this sterling daughter of Somnus and The
vMggier never race again, her performances are
Of sufficient merit to render her invaluable at the
Stud.
A subscription is on foot for the benefit of the
well-known jockey, “Paddy” Pigott, and a ready
response having been made, there’s likely to be a
tidy sum collected.
i he imposts for the principal handicaps to be
run for at the last approaching Murrumbldgee
Turf Club meeting are to be found in another
column, and on paper nothing appears so well
treated as Pell Mell and Soldier Boy, who should be
very hard to beat in both the Cup and Grand Stand
handicaps. The top weight in the Hurdles has as
healthy an appearance as anything else, and the
same may be said of Songster in the Steeplechase.
The Broulee Jockey Club has changed its name
to that of the Moruya Jockey Club: and its next
meeting, to come off on the 24th and 25th January,
and to which upwards of £350 are to be run for,
promises to be a great success.
Owing to the absence of the principal metalli-
cians, there has been very little doing on the
Wagga handicaps. First Demon and Soldier Boy
have received a little support in the Cup, at 100 s
to 8.
The following are the principal amounts won at
the late Queensland Turf Club meeting Mr.
Williams, £419; Mr. W. Mooney, £174; Mr. Flnnie,
£154; Mr. M’Gill, £Bl and a diamond bracelet: Mr.
Tuckett, £59; and Mr. Power £4O.
Melbourne, Saturday night.
The rain, which set in about half-past 3 yester-
day afternoon, gave the enthusiasts who went to
see racing at Wllliamstown a regular drenching,
and made Flemington habitues augur gloomily
enough for the morrow. Veteran observers of
Melbourne weather, who had experience of the
Flemington course after rain, were agreed that
the 3000 to 1000 taken the previous evening about
Buzza for the Steeple, wasn’t a good thing. The
rain continued, witnout intermission, throughout
the night, and there was no cessation of it in the
morning. The afternoon tuned out pleasant and
fine, but In the evening rain again set in, and then
it became generally allowed that probabilities
were much against racing on Monday.
Williamstown races on Friday brought together
a fair, or I might say large, attendance of racing
people. Some of the Sydney nags ran, without
success.
Friday’s Pigeon Shooting remains unfinished,
through lateness of the hour, rain, and want of
birds. The following seven remain in, with eleven
each to credit : Messrs. G. Peppin, 29yds.; W
Dalrymple, 26yds.; A. C. Wilson, 25yds.; T. Reid,
29yds.; F. Gannon, 31yds.; R. H. D. White, 28yds.;
and J. James, 28yds.; and the next competition (it
is for the Moigneux Cup) will come off at Sydney
during the Easter race meeting.
Many Bulletin readers will be glad to lean i
that Mr. Robert Watt, of Newcastle, who so u; i-
fortunately.broke one of his tnighs on Thu rad; tv
night, is progressing favourably. I called t’uis
morning at the hospital and found the patien t in
excellent spirits, and full of praise of the attention
he receives, which, as he justly remarks, he <j ould
not receive in a private house.
Pigott, the jockey, is also getting on finely. and
will probably be able to walk by the end of the
week.
Judging from the anxiety to obtain n*,y Bul-
letins, 1 reckpn that tbe “ Red Rag” o f New
Pitt-street is gaining no small share of popularity
MELBOURNE RACES.—FOURTH DAY.
[BY ELECTRIC TELEGRAPH.]
FROM “PEGASUS.”
After raining 1 throughout Sunday night, the
weather cleared off early on Monday, and It was
decided to race. The afternoon was showery, the
course heavier than it would have been on Satur-
day, and the attendance larger than could have
been expected, so many visitors having left, and
the city folk being kept away by business. An
accident to a race- train prevented many from
witnessing the first race. The time, of course is
very slow. For the Produce Stakes 3to 1 was laid
on Martini, who waited till they landed in the
straight, when he came out and cantered home
an easy winner by several lengths. The heavy
ground made the youngsters very slow for
the Flemington Stakes, at the finish for
which Bargo was favourite, but he disappointed
his stable, and Sir Thomas Elder scored a popular
win with King of the Gipsies, the unthought-of
Sirocco being second, and David, who humped his
weight in style through the dirt, third. The
Y.R.C. Handicap caused great betting right out
and in doubles with Steeplechase, the prime
favourites for the former being Stockwell and
Rhesus, next in popularity being Aide-de-Camp
Magnet, and Sardlus. After Claptrap had mada
strong running, followed by Marchioness, Yernet
Sardius, Rhesus, and Magnet to the sheds. Stock-
well and Kathleen Mavourneen showed promi-
nently as they neared the home turn
and half way up the straight Sardius
and Rhesus looked well, with Stockwell
also in front. Sardius mysteriously disappeared
at the distance, and Dukedom coming out won
easily, saving every double wager for the ring.
Sardonyx, who was held very far from his horses
till near home, ran a splendid finish for second •
Anglesey was third, the favourite, nowhere. The
Steeplechase was thought a certainty for Buzza,
the next in request being Bob Cooper and Lizette,
while some good judges went for Tom Corrigan
and the Caulfield winner, Rory O’More. This last
inspiration proved correct. The race was a very
exciting one, all the nags Jumping grandly, and
making as much pace as they could through the
deep ground. Bob Cooper made the running,
waited on by The Joker and Lizette, the
former taking command before reaching the
first fence, and so to the stone wail all
went well, with Cooper and Great Western in
front. At the next fence Speculator fell, and near-
ing the turn for the straight Buzza came to the
front. Here Lizette fell; and at the first of the
five big jumps in the straight Buzza gave Scubie a
nasty fall. Clansman led over the fences in front
ef the Stand, followed by Rory O’More, Black
Jacket, and Great Western, the jumping being
superb: but over the last of these fences Great
Western made a bungle on landing, when Wilson
cleverly stopped the horse and remounted. At
the river-side The Joker went in front, with Clans-
man, Black Jacket, Rory O’More, and Chrysalis
following, over the double and wall, where Trum-
peter rushed In front; and after passing the Sheds
Joker ran off the course, and was lost to sight in the
ditch. Trumpeter led to the turn for home, where
Rory came to the front, leading over the last
fence, and Corrigan, riding resolutely all the way
home, kept the chesnut going, and won by a
length from Songster, with Chrysalis third. I
never saw horses more jumped out, and they could
hardly raise a gallop. For the Canterbury Plate
Commotion went out with 3 to 1 on him a very select
few taking 5 to 1 about Off Colour, while Le Grand
was a good deal backed at a point less. Bristol
made running, I suppose for Le Grand, Commotion
chasing the leader, with Le Grand next. There wa*
no change to the half-mile post, where Off Colour
ran up third, and rounding the home turn Com-
motion got alongside Bristol aad headed him
After landing in the straight, Off Colour joined
issue with the leaders at the distance, on the out-
side, Bristol being done with, and a splendid finish
by Hales landed Off Colour first home by a neck,
Le Grand being two or three lengths off, third, with
Bristol pulling up. When the fourteen horses
paraded for the Free Handicap, Linda and Joseph-
ine were equal favourites at 4 to 1. The race is
easily described, for Linda went in front soon after
starting, and without being caught won in the
commonest can ter from Snaveller, with Josephine
a bad third I St. Alban’s scoring Its third win, and
Monaghan helm r unlucky enough to run two
seconds during ti he afternoon.
Racing fit Vast ', November 9.—Trial Stakes, 1H
mile: laid Girl, \ ; Thakambau, 2. Shorts, 6 fur-
longs: Rival, 8.4, i ; Claudine, 7.6,2; Young Wood-
lands, 6.12; 3. Sprl ng Handicap, 1H mile: Sutton,
MU; Alice Hawts| om, 6.10, 2; Thakambau, 7.8,8.
Ladles Mile: Alice Hawthorn, 1; Claudine, 2; Idle
Girl, 3. Forced Handicap, Once round: Sutton,
8.4,1; Rival, 8,2, 2; Wild Oats, 7.3,3.
WEIGHTS OF TAMWORTH HANDICAPS.
Race Club Handicap, one mile and three-
quarters.—Soldier Boy 9.0 Sportsman 7.12, Faust
7.10, Hazard 7.7, Bean 7 3, Erin 7.0, Hadgidomo 7.0,
Epicure 6,12, Here’s Luck, 6 12, Fifer 6.12, Sunlight
6.10, Daughter of the Regiment 6.10, Blazes 6.10,
Gang Forward 6.10, Affection 6.10, Woodstock 6i9v
Sunshine 6.8, Free Selector 6.7, Lecture (dead> 6t7,
Revenge 6.7, Stranger 6.0, Flying Column 6.0.
Borough Handicap, one mile and a half.—
Soldier Boy 9.2, Sportsman 8.0, Faust T. 12, Hazawd
7.9, Beau 7.5, Erin 7.2, Hadgidoxno (late Essex) 7.2,
Epicure 7.0, Here’s Luck 7.0, Fifer 7.0, Sunlight
6.12, Daughter of the Regiment 6.12, Biases 6.1 Z
Gang Forward 6.12, Affection 6.12, Milota 6JZ, Sun-
shine 6.10, Myra 6.9, Woodstock 6.°, Free Selector
6.7., Lecture (dead) 6.7, Revenge e.T, Gordie 6.7,
Stranger 6.0, Flying Column 6.0.
PICTON JOCKEY CLUB RACES.
FIRST DAY, FRIDAY.
Flying Handicap.—Mr. Rudd’s Ho vlong, 5 yrs,
8.12 (M. Gallagher), 1; J. Deery’s Ha> A, 5 yrs, 8 10,
2; Nicholson’s Sum Pumpkins, agi i. 7.7, 3. 18
started.
Hack Race. —Won by Mr. Cummins Polly.
Jarvisfleld Handicap.—Mr. Rudd’s Leumeah, 4
yrs, 7.7 (Butler), 1; Kerr’s Affection, 5 yrs, 7.4, 2;
Luclen, aged, 7.12, 3. Welsh’s Crowned Head also
started.
Welter Race. Mr. Rudd’s Howlong, 5 yrs (M.
Gallagher), 1; Riley’s Aurevoir, aged, 2; Nichol-
son’s Sum Pumpkins, 3. Seven started. Haco
broke his leg, and had to be shot.
Second Day, Saturday.
Ladies’ Purse.—Mr. Rißy’s Aurevoir, 8.0 (Riley),
1; Moor’s Lucien, 7.0, 2; Cosgrove’s Loiter, 7.7, 3
Nine started. <
Prince of Wales Stakes.—Mr. Wonson’s Bar-
maid, 1.
Picton Handicap.—Mr. Shore’s Uhlan, 5 yrs, 7.4,
1; Hughes’s Birdcatcher, aged, 6.0, 3; Riley’s
Aurevoir, aged, 7.12, 3. Jenny Lind and Lucien
also started.
Forced Handicap.—Mr. Riley’s Aurevoir and Mr.
Ahearn’s Handrcapper dead heat. The run off
won by Aurevoir.
Melbourne, Wednesday night.
The settling over the races has gone on all day,
and apparently will end well, though it is yet
impossible to say for certain. The books are said
not to have won as a whole, but they had the best
of the post-betting. The Sydney men are clearing
out fast, and after Thursday few will be left. At
the sale of race-horses to-day but few buyers
attended, and only a few lots were sold. The old
Barb fetched only a hundred guineas, Mr. H. J.
Bowler being the purchaser. The Hon. James
White bought First Water for four hundred. Illu-
sion brought eight hundred, and Mr. Smart sold
Belmont and Gipsy’s Warning. The Hon. James
White will draw the largest amount ever paid to
one owner for stakes here ; and Sydney takes the
great bulk of the wager-money. Mr. Robert Watt,
of Newcastle, is progressing favourably, as also is
Pigott, the jockey.
AN EASTERN STORY.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Between the authorities on one side, and
the natives on the other, General M‘lver’s swash-
bucklers have a promising future A man up
Bourke way makes sport pay. He drives his own
waggon, and when last passed in the bush had £25
worth of kangaroo and other scalps in it A bar-
maid at Dean’s hotel, Newcastle, has been arrested
for a murder at Tamworth committed last year ...
The Charters Towers Herald reports that a
mountain 31,000 feet high, “ with good gold near
the base,” has been stumbled upon in New Guinea.
We did not know that Captain Lawson was on the
Queensland press—Slx-wi re fencing, on the Bar-
coo, £6O a mile—Portland Downs and Wellshot
stations shear 180,000 eaoh this season ; Terrick,
155,000; Malvern Hills, 160,000. At Wellshot,
200,000 yards of dams let at Is. Id. a yard—con-
tractor finds everything. ..Hard labour for life-
first two years in irons—is the prize Rowbotham, of
Goulburn, drew for matricide ... Irrigation from
wells promises to render the sugar lands of the
Burdekin delta Independent of rainfall Thar-
gomindah (Q.) will, next March, have a newspaper,
the Tharqomindah Herald and Cooper’s
Creek Advertiser New Caledonia is going
ahead very fast. One firm alone possesses four
steamers, and are expecting the Ocean Queen
shortly. They are also having a vessel built in Auck-
land and one in England. Another firm is having
one built in Noumea, which will be the first con-
structed in the colony Great distress is shown
by the New Hebrides natives in New Caledonia, it
having been reported to them that the white men
had taken possession of all their islands, and that
they have no homes to go to. It is also reported
on very good authority that before long the labour
trade will commence again.
•
An opening in the wine trade has been
found for electricity. In America, it is now used
to give mellowness to new wines and spirits. By
judicious application wines a week old cannot be
told from those of the comet year “ The remains
of four white men, perforated with bullets and
hacked with knives, were found,” says a Chatta-
nooga telegram, “ in a rai’road camp near Cumber-
land Falls. No clue to the cause of the tragedy;
theory entertained that the men fought a double
duel while gambling.” E. I.P.—We suppose it
would be a lie to say “No cards.”...
The Anamite Tuduc, just deceased, was a
•curiosity among emperors. The two chief institu-
tions of his palace were his harem and his kitchen.
He was an old man, and only allowed his sacred
face to be seen by mandarins of high rank. His
principal meal consisted of never fewer than
twenty courses, among which was his favourite
delicacy of roast monkey. He frequently received
I a fatted ape from his subjects as a present, and
nothing was more acceptable. Among other
strange food served up at his table were the humps
of camels, the fins of sharks, varieties of snails, and
a species of red worms. The latter are eaten
alive. His manner of daily life was said to be more
luxurious than that of his over-lord, the Emperor
of China.
The tenth contest between the chess
players of Victoria and N.S.W. came off on the 9th
instant, and, like seven of its predecessors, ended
in a win for the Southerners. The combatants
were paired by lot, with the following result:—
Robert Smith, N.S.W. (not R. B.), secured a ver-
dict against the schol rly Wlsker, England s
whilom champion, after the longest battle of the
series. Walker soon experienced an electric shock
from the Victorian veteran Burns, who carries
too many guns for P.B. Russell had a *• guinea to
a gooseberry ” game, but, through over confid-
ence, he got his king into chancery and allowed
Stanley to score an unexpected win for Victoria.
Hicken. who made a bad start, had, at least, an
even show at tea time, when he misread the
telegraphed move of Esling, who thereupon
fluked a win for Victoria. Crane (N.S.W.) and
Fisher (formerly of Sydney) fought till midnight,
when, as positions were about equal, and the result
of the game could not save or lose the match, a
draw was agreed upon. Cbamier played in good
style and beat Stephen (Vic.); Heiman (N.S.W.)
made a gallant but unsuccessful defence against
the vigorous onslaughts of Goldsmith, who is as
brilliant at chess as he used to be in the cricket
arena. The Victorians, who win four games, lost
two, and drew one, at the finish of the match ex-
pressed a hope that “ next time N.S.W. would have
more of the luck.” The result, though not unex-
pected, was rather unsatisfactory, as the loss of
two of the games, and consequently of the match,
can only be attributed to downright carelessness
on the part of the Cornstalks. A member of
the chess club generously provided a champagne
■dinner at 6 o’clock for the N.S. Welshmen. Might
we suggest that, in future matches, feasting be
delayed till the conclusion of the contest ?
Feeble ladies, aged persons, weakly chil
dren, persons of sedentary habits, all need Hop
JBitters daily. Read and believe.
CHAP I.—THE NILE TRAVELLER.
CHAP. II.—A FRIEND IN INDIA.
CHAP. lII.—AN AFFECTING MEETING.
CHAP. IV.—TWO HEADS ARE BETTER THAN ONE


KING TAWHTAO.
Monk’s New Zealand Herbal
Remedies (Registered).
■
1
Trade mark—" King Tawhlao.
The n.z, herbal extract
can be administered to Infants of the most
tender age, and to all other patients, however veak
and delicate, with perfect safety and certainty of
IMMEDIATE RELIEF AND EARLY CURE.
THE N.Z. HERBAL REMEDIES
are made solely
FROM HERBS, SHRUBS, AND BARK,
indigenous to New Zealand only,
and NO DRUGS hitherto known to the medical
world are contained in the above medicines.
The N.Z. Herbal Extract cures ABSOLUTELY
Dysentery, Diarrhoea, Choleratlc Diarrhoea, and
Cholera, as NO OTHER medicine yet known to
the world can do. It CURES, equally well, chronic
or acute cases of the WORST kinds, and gives
INSTANTANEOUS RELIEF in every case.
From Capt. Cromarty, U.B.S. “ Penguin.”
Auckland, June 19th, 1883.
Dear Sir,—l am much pleased with the action of
Sour “ Herbal Extract” that you supplied me with,
n the passage to Fiji I cured one man of an
attack of Dysentery with three doses, and on
the return voyage a lady brought a child on
board very ill with Chronic Dysentery, which the
doctors could not cure in Fiji: the second day
the Dysentery stopped and the child left at
Auckland getting quite strong and hearty. I
am, dear sir, yours faithfully.— W. L. Cromarty.
What a Medico Says I
Rangiora, July 7,1881.
Sir,—Having carefully examined the N.Z Herbal
Extract, I find it to be a skilfully prepared vege-
table preparation, possessing the properties of the
plants from which it is derived In a highly con-
centrated state, a fact which I have verified by
evaporating a fluid drachm placed in a watch-
glass over a spirit lamp. On weighing the result-
a dark green extract, 1 found the weight to be UA
grains. On further submitting the extract to
analysis I found it to be rich in tannin. In a large
number of cases of ordinary diarrhoea, as well as
in many chronic oases and in dysentery. 1 have
proved it to contain great specific control, added
to the unusual feature in a majority of diarrhoea
medicines, that it does not subsequently constipate
the bewels. I fell satisfied that, from the number
of trials I have been enabled to make of it in a
somewhat extensive practice, it is a most valuable
addition to modern therapeutics.
(Signed)
Charles DeLacy MacCarthy, M.A., M. 8., &c.,
Trinity College, Dublin,
Surgery, Rangiora, July 1881.
Davis-street, Petersham, Nov. 3, 1883.
Sir,—lt is with great pleasure that lam able to
inform you that I think after taking another
bottle or two I shall be entirely cured. 1 am
unable to get any more for a day or so, but wi.l
call on you as soon as possible. The enclosed is a
letter from a gentleman who has known what a
sufferer I have been, and 1 send it to you so that
you could see it was a severe case. Sincerely
thanking you, sir, 1 remain, yours respectfully.
To Mr. Monk. Wm. Pjiovost.
Petersham, November 3rd, 1883.
I have known Mr. William Provost to be suffer-
ing from Chronic Dysentery for the last two and a
half years.—John Denning, Builder, Petersham.
Sydney, 23rd October, 1883.
H. D. Monk, Esq., Sydney.
Sir,—l have much pleasure in stating that I
have on two occasions been cured of attacks of
Diarrhoea by the use of your remedy. The first
time was in New Zealand when travelling with the
Tambour Major Opera Company, and I had
another attack, whicn lasted eignt days till yester-
day, when two doses you kindly gave me at your
office have again completely cured me. Yours
gratefully, (Signed) John B. Cook.
Monk’s New Zealand Herbal Mixture
for Neuralgia.
The mixture acts like a charm in the above pain-
ful disease, and giving instantaneous relief.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
From Captain Kennedy, U.S.S. “ Hauroto,”
Port Chalmers, February 7th, 1883.
Dear Sir,—Thanks for the Medicine you were
kind enough to send me. I have only to say that
in my case—a severe attack of Neuralgia in the
head—it afforded me considerable relief. It has
also the advantage of not being in the least nause-
ous like most remedies.
I remain, dear sir.
Yours faithfully,
A, Kennedy.
Mr. H. D. Monk.
17 Macquarie-place, Sydney, Oct. 27th, 1883.
Horace D. Monk, Esq., 99 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Dear Sir, —A few days past 1 Informed you that
I had been suffering from Neuralgia for three
weeks in succession, and, acting upon your sug-
Sestion, I took a small bottle of your famous
icuralgic Mixture, which has, I am happy to say,
cured me entirely of my complaint. I shall lose
no opportunity of recommending your valuable
medicine to all my friends who pass sleepless
nights (such as I have done) solely from the effects
of Neuralgia —I am yours truly,
C. Milton Gannon.
Wholesale: ELLIOTT BROS., Wholesale Chemists;
or, _
HORACE D. MONK & FRED. J. MUIR & CO.,
99 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
THE NEWSLETTER.
Calcutta tea Inglis writes : —“ As regards
conservation of water, you can neutralise the ex-
cessive evaporation by simply planting the Indian
water-lily in your tanks. It forms an impervious
natural lid to your dam, on which old Sol may
play to his most torrid tune, but the water down
below under the broad leathery leaves varies little
jn quantity from year’s end to yf ar’s end.” Squat-
ters should be darned tankful for this hint.
The United States Treasury Department
has just decided that since a well-known stomacn
bitters is nothing mo e or less than disguised
whiskey, those who retail it must take out a spirit
license. A N. S. Wales enactment of the same
tendency re not a few tonics might open the eyes
of not a few fools who, having taken the pledge
against alcohol, think (or pretend to) they’re com-
plying with the letter of their vow (let alone the
grog part of it) by pouring down their throttles
frequent goes of medicinal bitters, when in reality
they’re plying themselves with the spirit.
N.S.W. Stock and Brands Departmental
Report for 1882 just out (rather late in the year,
eh ?) Facts and figures therefrom—ll,6Bs inspec-
tions of stock, 1879 of reserves, 299 of pounds. 3275
of pastures, horses Inspected 44,466, cattle 556,739,
sheep 18,941,439. Convici ions under Sheep Act 98,
under Lauds Act 38, under Brands Act 2, under
Pastures Act 70. Horses in the colony: draught
74 776, light harness 85,837, saddle 190,048, wild horses
estimated at 16,266. Cattle in colony: shorthorns
988 853, Herefords 165,072. Devon 22,292, black polled
122! Avrshire 693, crosses 898,969. Sheep in colony;
merino combing 25,220,744, clothing 8,586,300, Lin-
coln 777,894, Leicester 622,844, Downs 61,743, Romney
Marsh 4524, crosses 840 755. Estimated number of
noxious animals (wild guesses at ditto, that’s to
B ( y) kangaroos 4,832,904, wallabies 3,628,027, native
dogs 30,879, rabbits 2,500,000. Noxious animals
destroyed in 1882: kangaroos 1,452,829, wallabies
347,842. native dogs 6980, rabbits 188,257. Number
of miles of fencing in colony 929,000, estimated
to have cost £46,920,000. Names of owners of
over 100,000 sheep—Balranald district : Kilfera
Pastoral Co., 188,000; W. Taylor, 156,000; Stanbridge,
Mears, and Waugh, 141,000; C. B Fisher, 120,000;
P. M'Pherson and Co., 107,885 Bourke District:
Batten and Dickens, 106,200; Robert Scott, 114,000;
C. and S. C. Officer, 155,850; M. P. Fitzgerald and
Co., 121,584; Kirkpatrick and Quinn, 111,565; Palmer
Bros, and Co., 123,000. Brewarrina District: Baird
and Henderson, 174,000; Armstrong and Co.,
172,500; Kobb and Co.. 132,809. Cannonbar District:
James Richmond, 134,605. Cobar District: Alison
and Son, 123,000. Hay District: T. and L. Lear-
month, 146,669; T. P. Patterson, 106,200; Thomas
Robertson, 142,564. Hlllston District: M'Kinnon,
Did, and Co., 145,032; Whittingham Bros., 188,388;
Canoble Pastoral Co., 106.000; Armstrong and Co.,
154,144. L«mth District: Nankwell, Loughnan, and
Co., 135,200; M‘Caughey and Co., 457,793. Menindie
District: H. 11. Hughes, 160,000; J. J. Phelps,
149,980 ; Ross Reid and Co., 149,567 ; G. and J.
Rlddoch, 112,000; Wynne, Hudson, and Co., 143,519.
Moree District: John Simson, 119,798. Murrurundi
District: Australian Agricultural Co., 107,702.
Tam worth district: Peel River Co., 136,674. Urana
District: W. Halliday, 160,000. Walgett District:
O. Bioxsome, 102,500; A. G. Brook, 123,000; Gordon
and Campbell. 103,000; G. A. and P. Mein, 301,000;
L. Parker, 104,000; J. K. Scott, 130,000 Wanaaring
District: I. W. Armytage, 119,150; R. Feehan,
102,550. Wentworth District: R. Tully and Co,
115,213. Wilcannia District: Moonba Pastoral Co.,
200,000.
Five minutes after the arrival of the tele-
gram announcing Marwood’s death, one Schole-
fleld, a shipwright, interviewed the editor of the
Pall Mall Gazette. He had with him a horrible
looking arrangement in hemp and brass, which he
claimed to be a simple, expeditious, and humane
means of despatching murderers. “Look at’thls,”
he said, as he fondled the gruesome machine:
“hereis all that Is wanted. There is no slipping
of the noose with this, no bungling.” On nearer
examination it was found that the rope was the
ordinary half-inch white hemp, passed double
through a brass clamp, forming a loop which
could be adjusted to the exact thickness of the
neck of the criminal. Immediately before the
clamp was fitted a brass crescent measuring nine
Inches from tip to tip, and projecting three Inches
from the rope. This brass crescent is so adjusted
as to lie on the shoulder of the condemned, while
a h d ™° p u o‘ f e from^wq 0 to d foSr° fllt de Throrin^ioll
of d tb P in vention is that the moment the criming
is swung off, the crescent presses against the side
of the head ’ while the r °P e P ulls the head sharply
£ lu a ° n slal ff^ax^lnd^oe-
cSng instanT"dea°th. 6ea ”lT cannot d fail/ T
Ba i d its inventor, as he lovingly fitted the
hempen loop around the neck of one who
was Present at the interview, and screwed the
c amp tight at the rißht diB tance. “It will hang
you B i dewa y Si h ac h yr front, just as you like; ft
cannot fail. Just drop off this table, and it will be
quite sufficient. No need of a long drop, no pull-
ing men s heads off their shoulders; everything
painless; the very invention that is wanted. The
leverage gained by the 3in. projection of the brass
crescent will snap anyone’s neck.” “But might
not the rope snap ?” he was asked. “ No, because
it’s double; Marwood uses 5-Bin. rope for a long
drop; l<jin. double for a short drop will be more
than is necessary. Jack Ketch always used the
sin. The thinner the rope, the surer the Job. You
can hang a cat with a whipcord, bu. not with a Hn.
rope.” “How did you try your experiments?”
“ By making lay figures of various weights, fixing
a block of wood as the head of a stout pole, sur-
rounded by wire springs to represent the vertebrae
of the neck. I have tried it with many weights
and many leng-ths of drop, and never found it to
miss. In the cause of humanity and civilisation I
appeal to you to secure the adoption of this
humane invention.”
Shakespeare asked, “ What’s in a name? ”
William had never backed a bill discounted by
Aaron Vaxman.
The most enterprising man up North is a
canvasser, who actually talked fll'iy Normanton
black fellows into taking- a sewing-machine each
on the time-payment system. And now, when
Tarpot “ expects company ” to dinner, he spears
a Chinam n, brings home the hide, and the missus
runs it up on the machine, and makes a nice,
quiet-looking pair of pyjamas for the old man.
Regarding London, a late French writer
says ” Sit alone in the Park, and the chances are
you will be asked for five shillings, on pain of the
woman who demands it giving you in charge for
insulting her. If a girl asks the time of day, pass
on without affecting to hear her question, for
there is an imminent risk of the child being a bait
for an infuriated ruffian, who will instantly aecuse
the obliging passer-by of trying to corrupt the
innocent, and meanwhile, If the night be dark or
the place secluded, will rifle you” pockets.” In
Sydney, the unfortunate foreigner found guilty
on the evidence of these harpies, would have his
back seamed with the “ cat,” as a Melbourne man
had some time ago for a crime of which he was
wholly innocent. The introduction of the triangles
has been a shower of gold for abandoned women,
when a Sydney man sees a woman or a child on
the rocks at Bondi or Coogee, his best plan is to
get back to town as quickly as possible.
Not long ago we drew attention to the
thousands of pounds thrown away by the Tele-
graph Department on the Wheatstone automatic
instruments which now lie rusting in the office
stores. These instruments necessitated the engag-
ing of experts In England to fltthem up (no one here
appeared to understand them throroughly), and
they also led to the employment of a large staff
of female clerks, who of course could not be dis-
missed when the new-fangled instruments were
voted a downright nuisance. And now, according
to the Speaker’s account delivered in the House
on Wednesday last, Mr. Cracknell officially told
him, “ Experience shows the effect of the
electric light on the eyesight is much less
distressing than that of gas-light, and gentle-
men who had been in the habit of using
glasses were able by aid of the electric light
to do without them.’ 1 This, of course, was re-
ceived by the House with roars of laughter, for
although Mr. Cracknell’s fad had only been one
night in use, the reporters declared they were
going stone blind already, and Mr. Combes declared
that the old gas-light, or even common candles,
would be a vast improvement on the present
blinding nuisance. Mr. Combes also pointed out
that the very position of the lights alone was
a mistake, and then the Speaker somewhat
tartly said: “I pointed out that fact myself,
but my opinion was overruled by those
who were supposed to be competent.” The
Telegraph Department is, unfortunately, by
no means the only one guilty of extravagance,
but it appears to be the only one Just at present
that does not possess sufficient cunning to hide its
great fiascos. The money wasted by bungles such
as this of the electric light is enormous, as those
behind the scenes well know ; and, before any
bumptious experiments are ventured on, it would
be well for the Ministerial head to make sure of
his ground. It is understood that Edison’s local
agent utterly disclaims all responsibility in the
matter, which was not left in his hands.
123,000 was the official count at the Cup.
Everything that art, ingenuity, and money could
do at Flemington was done. An additional stand
was put up, to accommodate an extra 5000. That
was not enough. New conveniences included a
speclal dining-room and a retiring-room for the
Governor, one for the ladles of his party, a large
tea and coffee room (in addition to the extensive
luncheon rooms) for the public who had an eye to
economy and light repasts only, a room for the
Press, one for disabled Jockeys, and two immense
rooms for ladies only, like sumptuous ballrooms,
with mirrors, scented fountains, brackets of ferns,
limitless supnlies of cosmetics, dress requisites
and all the toilet trifles. There was a fountain on
the lawn, with terracotta dolphins and pot plants;
parterres of blazing flowers; rustic seats, and hot
water for the aristocratic tea. Even on the hill—
the people’s hill—were flower beds, ornate seats,
rockeries and grottoes, and a rustic arbour with
mirrors. It all reads like an Aladdin’s tale. It
would be idle to describe the crowd. Everyone
goes to the Melbourne Cup. 68 trains were de-
spatched from Melbourne loaded with 49,000
people, paying £7BOO. On Williamstown and Essen-
don lines, 19,000 were carried. All were taken
there and back without one accident; ten laden
trains were started within ten minutes. Twenty-
four in-hands were tooled along the smooth
broad road ; and the finest carriages to be seen
south of the line rolled on in endless order,
ablaze with colonial beauty, and aflutter with
foamy skirts and flying ribbons. A fourth of the
population of the Southern metropolis formed in
one gigantic procession up the Flemington road.
All conditions of men Joined in the universal
saturnalia, and by early afternoon the city of Mel-
bourne was a vast haunted silence. All day long
from the great grand-stand came the froufrou of
rustling skirts, and the soft hum of many womea’s
voices; all day the monstrous crowd surged on the
hill and the flat, and the saddling-paddock was a
gathering of Hebrews, books with brazen throats,
many-hued Jockeys, squatters, and mashers, a
seething mass of men, all on business bent. But
from all alike, women and men, from stand and
lawn, and hill, and flat and paddock, there came a
roar like Niagara as Martim-.Henry went by.
A CONUNDRUM WHICH PUZZLES THE SPHINX.
THE SUEZ CANAL QUESTION.


Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
Australia's favourite remedy. We all suffer more
or less from liver complaint, thereby hindering
other organs from fulfilling their functions. Set
the liver in order by taking the above remedy, and
heart, lungs, brain, and stomach will unite is
graceful chorus.
ABRAHAM'S PILLS,
The true Inylgorator. If your vital forces are
depressed, If you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of coming
disaster, your liver is unequal to its work. Tr
obviate all these symotoms mere is no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion < ■
the maladies and ailments attacking me human
frame are really due to a disordered liver. Set his
organ in order and health returns as if by magic.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are imitations, ask for ABRAHAM b
PILLS. See that each box, by whomsoever soM
bears the inventor’s name and trade mark. The
Laboiatiry,
434 George Street, Sydney.
W. H. PALING,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ZOEDONE,
Pleasant, Refreshing,
Invigorating.
The nor-a.-j no i o beverage acts as a brain and
nerve ton.e, and does not intoxicate.
20ED0NE
wi«?. eo i"" nerj by ; t . he Paonlty as a substitute for
i»lnn, beer, nod spirits, as it invigorates witheut
SIkoV, ' :,ny intoxicating effect. In case of
«o™i.J c V nS€ ‘ ( i I!ent . on a lon * residence in a hot
cJimate. it « of great service, as it acts not only as
totho system!*' 14 ’ but * Permanent tenlo
Price per oat o containing 6 dozen pints ... 12/
•* ” •• « .. 1 „ ..34/
ELLIOTT BROTHERS,
72 and 74 Pltfcgtreet,
Sydney.
Ilit
11L f
111
R.BUHCIS.
TAILOR. .
He
B. BURGHS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
FOB
CHEAPNESS. FIT, AND WORKMANSHIP.
Diagram, (or «, aay
and
"W* »bSbra\«c N vofr own gas 8 E
Apply to
I>. K E Jfl L Y AND CO.,
71 Gouttmrn-street, Sydney.
Fluid ®as> Gasallers, Lamps,
„ Comfort » Economy, and Safety.
Mr. on bebal f of the Patent Portable Gas
Co., had charge of the lighting of the hall and
supper rooms at the Hay Demonstration, and the
lighting of Croydon Station. He undertakes to
teach his customers in three minutes the mode of
lighting.
A liberal discount will be given to storekeepers
on remittances per orders, and goods forwarded
with quick despatch. Orders ana remittances to
be sent to the above address. No orders attended
to without remittance.
LIST OF PRICES:
4 Light Gasailer .. .. ..£3 10
0
0
0 to £2
0
0
5 0
3 do. do ~ ..2 10
2 do. do 115
2 Light Brass Table Lamps .. 510
1 do. do. do 210
Brass Bracket Lamps, burn 16
hours 2 0 0
Wall Bracket Lamps, do. 0 17 6
Globes and Fittings .. ..0 6 0 each
Fluid, in cases, Bgallons.. .. 0 2 6gal.
1 gal. fluid gives a ught equal to 12s worth kero-
sene. instructions as to the mode of lighting sent
to clients with despatch of goods.
Goods sent to all parts of the Colonies.
THE HARWOOD
Fibre Chair Seating,
Possessing all the qualities of a perfect seat, viz.;
Strength, Durability, Ease, Beauty, Cleanliness
and Cheapness.
THIS CHAIR SEAT is made from the strongest
known fibres and a perfectly waterproof
cement, and after fifteen years’ constant use, we
can speak positively as to its merits. It cannot
split or check, neither will exposure to sun or rain
affect it.
Awarded Gold Medal at the late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association,
For RE-SEATING it is unrivalled. In every
house, store and office, are chairs with seats broken.
Any person can re-seat and make as good as new a
chair that Is otherwise worthless, at a very trifling
expense. °
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE FOR HOME USB.
Agents Wanted in Every District.
Prom £3 to £5 a week can be made by any smart
man or boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
82 CLARENCE STREET.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
Stock, Station, and Genera! Com-
mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
Marshalls
TONIC NERVINE
REGISTERED.
A SAFE, certain, and speedy cure for Nervous
and General Debility, and all complaints that
spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia.
Nervous Headache, and Toothache, Indigestion
Loss of Appetite, General Prostration, &c. By its
tonic and soothing* effects it at once removes all
craving for ALCOHOL. By its richness as a Che-
mical Pood, it nourishes and gives rigour to the
Elliott Brothers, and K. Prosser & o*.
-'r
EASY TERMS SYSTEM IS? INSTRUMENT.
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC,
SHOW iiCSN
WHIfcEX
ADVT
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LBDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON.- "ho
dnnk of the army, navy, the clubr, ana con
Amencan gentlemen; will soon be th» Ip if a
beverage in Australia; It has no rival; the oi tou n-
you try It the more you like It.
S. HOFFNUNG 8s CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ys In STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HA Rl) WaRB.
GLASS, CHINA,
Aim
EARTHENWA RE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J.T YEN’S
Sobn<».jin .^iirya,
A. Iv • v ,nd SONS’
vr), . i .^Paie
.
PAPERS ANGI at urS!
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to ’. aVo ~
NURSER i . ERB.
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, &o.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwick,
381 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’/* DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours. Yar-
mshee, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &e.
Atlas Foundry & Engineer-
ing Company,
W HAY STHJBKT SYDNEY.
ENGINEERS, BOTI.ERMA KEHS AND BHIPBDXLDKBS,
Iron and Brasslounders, Coppersmiths and
Millwrights.
The above Arm me p-epared to undertake con-
tracts for tne manufacture of Marine and Station-
APT Rnirinao Rnilrtto nr rv ,
latest improvements,
N.B.—Castings ex.?<;uted with despatch, and beat
price given for metal.
EURE
KA
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
t3f~ Th t. *«ON OF PERFECTION.
FfWE ■ * N THU FINEST.
Tho Too s. kv of the Ago I
,vi, > H..JPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALT OTHER BRANDS.
The omy J-ous voo comb nlng Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Price.
"?}- Is STAMPED with the won
EUbftKA. Smokers see that you obtain t
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
vi jl’s Tobacco Cs., Lin.
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KjuNT and clarence streets,
md can be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse
Park-street, Sydney.
>oiu Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as its m erits become known.
EURRo A TOBACCO
fieglsioreii accord!t v r,- Act of Parliament, to pro-
tect the public against spurious and worthless
• notations.
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
IV. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.,
THE BEST MAKERS IN THE WORLD,
AT EXTRAORDINARY LOW PRICES.
w. XX. PALIIVG,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & CO.,
lEOII, MACHINERY, and MIME BITS,
397 GEORGE STREET,
66 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON. ENGLAND.
SOLE ABE NTS FOR ROBEY & CO.. ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ Tools, Pounders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery, Coach
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricultural
Implements.
ENGINES.
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing’ and Hoisting’, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
ADVT
PUMPS.
Special Steam, Centrifugal, and
Force and Lift.
BOILERS.
Vertical and Horizontal.
MACHINERY.
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting and Screwing
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY.
Shw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret Saws. Genera
Joiiters’ and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam-power.
English and American Agricultural Implements.
few’ R? ut)le < and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Horse Hoes, Land Rollers, Horse
Kes > Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers and Shellers, Threshing Machines.
Coa
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
CH Builders’ Sundries.— Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and Furnishings, Varnishes, and
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours.
Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron : Galvanized, Corrugated.
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled I Joists. ’
Squatters’ Supplies.
Wool packs, Sheep Shears, Oils, Raddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing and Darn Making
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Locks, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Carpenters’ Tools.
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DBYSDALE AND CO,.
397 George Street, Sydney.


Mb. DeCotjrct Browne (lat Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 136 Pitt-stroet, Sydney*
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Department undertaken. Titles a
speciality.— Advt.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUN»*
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss or Voice, in-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe ano
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorar i
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congeaie**
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relie.,
a small bottle often cures. Ask for “Arnold 9
and get it; spurious imitations are sometia: »
offered.
Nowhere perhaps has the dentist’s art obtained
such high excellence as in Sydney. Certainly we
are in no sense behind any other city. Visitors w
Sydney might, to test this, visit the establishment
or Messrs. Adolphe Gabriel and Company. 18” 7R*
yard Square, two doors from Pfanlerts Hotel*
Here the manufacture of every essential in ujo
Erofession is carried on. At the rear of the surgery
i a compact little factory where all the regulates
for supplying every dental defect in the huma
mouth are made. Messrs. Gabriel and Co. (»»<*'
only address is as above) are always pleasea _
show their specimens of artificial teeth to tnoee
interested. There being two firms of the sam
name in the Square, patients will oblige by
particular attention to the Christian name^Adoipn r *
and the number, 18, two doors from Pfahion
Hotel.—Advt.
Obscene School Books.
In connection with the evils alleged to exist in
Victorian mixed Public Schools, and equally
vouched for as operating in connection with
Sunday School picnics in Sydney, a correspondent
has addressed to us a very pertinent question.
The drift of the representations for which, in Vic-
toria, the Bev. Mr. Hamer, Minister of the Collins-
street Congregational Church, and the Bishop of
Melbourne, are responsible, is Identical with the
gravamen of the charges made a few years ago by
the late Archbishop Vaughan against our Public
School system. The Public Schools of New South
Wales were obnoxious to the Archbishop because
they were “ Godless.” The Public Schools of Vic-
toria are obnoxious to Bishop Moorhoube and
Mr. Hamer because they are not merely “ God-
less ” like the New South Wales schools, but also
“ Blbleless.” But, on the other hand, Sunday
Schools are neither “Godless” nor “ Bibleless,”
yet we find them charged with the same evils
which are ascribed to the Public Schools. Our cor-
respondent wishes to urge that the immoral ten-
dencies are chargeable to the very Godliness and
Biblical character of our schools. Here is a conflict
of ideas. It appears to us that the Bishop of Mel-
bourne, the late Archbishop of Sydney, and our
correspondent, are equally in error. It cannot be
the tendency of Scripture lessons, as alleged by
our correspondent, which demoralizes the pupils,
because it seems immorality prevails in schools
where there are no Bible lessons. And it cannot
be the absence of Bible lessons which demoralizes
the pupils, because, according to the testimony of
the Dean of Sydney, they are prone to immoral
practices even when attending Sunday School,
where they are taught nothing else. At the same
time it may be of some assistance towards a solution
of the enigma to know that our correspondent has
selected, from Scripture lessons embodied in the
school-books in use in the New South Wales Public
Schools, a series of nineteen passages of such a
character that, were we to comply with his sugges-
tion and publish them, we should expose ourselves
to a prosecution under the laws relating to obscene
publications.
♦
Under the title of “ Have we an Army,” Sir
Patrick MaoDougall tell us in the Nineteenth
Century that we have—a sort of one. It is an odd
thing that, of all the writers on this thread-bare
subject, there is not one who has the pluck to say
boldly to the English people: “ Since the Peninsular
campaign, where you distinguished yourselves,
and the Crimean adventure, where (owing to faulty
organization) you did not, a great change has come
over the face of Europe. Warfare—its system,
methods, and resources—has undergone a complete
revolution. It is no longer standing armies, it is
nations, you have to contend against. If half a
million Frenchmen, Germans, or Russians were
placed hors-de-rombat in a week, half a million
more equally well trained men could take their
places in a day. If you, then, wish to have an
army—if you wish to retain the place to which
you lay claim in the councils of Europe—you must
adopt their methods and pass every man through
the ranks. There is no other way. Until you do
this, all the nostrums of long service or short
service, pay, pensions, rewards, and reserves will
be about as efficacious as the endeavours of in-
genious men to steer a balloon in the face of a
gale. Ido not counsel you to do it, as the very
notion of obligatory service is repugnant to men
of English blood; but it is a contingency from
which there ia no escape if you want to be per-
fectly secure, and have your representations con-
sidered without a suggestive shrug.” The ques-
tion, then, for Englishmen to consider is not
“ Have we an army ?” but “ Which is the lesser evil
—to make men serve whether they will or not, or
to take a back seat in European affairs ?”
What a problematic set of creatures does simula-
tion make us! Who would divine that all the
anxiety and concern one meets with In the world
should arise from nothing else but that the one
half of mankind desire the other half may think
t hem men of consequence. What a noise about it
amongst the claimants. Behold Humility out of
mere pride! and Honesty out of mere knavery!
and Chastity once in harm’s way! and Courage a
bladder full of wind. But hark! What’s that?
The sound of a trumpet? No; ’tls some good
Christian giving alms 11
From infancy Thomas Noodle was truth-
ful. With pardonable pride his mother boasted
that, with all his faults, “Tommy never told a
story.” She interviewed him occasionally when
he pinched his little sister. Words would some-
times load to blows, and for a few days Tom would
stand up to his prayers. At ten he went to school,
and learned a good many things. He was bright
and apt. For sneaking an apple from a stall, or
attaching his teacher to a chair with cobbler’s wax,
he had few equals. He acquired an acquaintance
with a good many bad words—in fact, he learnt
everything but his lessons. He had a deep-seated
prejudice against these, chiefly OAving to the fact
that he doubted many of the statements made in
the “Child’s History of England.” But his old
prejudice against story-telling still stuck to him.
When he grew up and got married, his wife said to
him one day, “My dear, mamma is coming from
Parramatta to stay a few days with us.” Then
Tom said “I'm—er—very glad.” It was his first
perversion of the truth, and he blushed. But,
slight as it Avas, it resembled the auger-hole put
down to tap subterranean reservoirs, and struck
an artesian well of prevarication In his system
which has kept up a broad river of lying ever
since.
Eleven Kanakas ran away from a Queens-
land plantation lately, and made for their native
isles. Their idea seems to have been that they
could swim there. They got some miles out to sea
before they turned back. When they reached the
beach they were captured by the police “ after a
desperate struggle.” It must have been a desperate
struggle to overcome a few poor devils who had
hardly strength enough to reach the shore. But
we not seen a policeman complimented in the
public prints on his gallant conduct in capturing a
blood-thirsty desperado of ten years old whom he
had caught in the act of rifling a pea-nut stall ?
Certainly we have; and proud we are to have such
defenders. But, returning to the Kanakas, we
should be interested—if anything could interest us
now—to know why so many of them run away
from plantations. Perhaps they have too little to
do, or too much to eat. Perhaps their ivages are
too high. Perhaps they are treated too kindly by
their masters, and their feelings of gratitude so
outpace their knoivledge of English that they run
away from sheer shame. Evidently, at any rate a
plantation life is too much joy for them. One of
these days, when an overdose of joy causes a few
more to hang and drown themselves, there will be
a little inquiry and we shall find out. Till then we
shall wait with philosophic calm. We have no
Kanaka relatiA*es ourselves, so we can afford to be
resigned. But we are sorry for the Jamberoo
correspondent of the Boqolong Bullock-Bell.
A sweep-promoter—the man who builds a
chimney.
The new phrase for wiping the floor with a
man is: “I will deterge, scour and cleanse the
area of this chamber with the collective mass of
your ignominious person.”
The Protestant Bible Society of France
gives a bible to every newly-married couple. A
Bible bound in lead is a first-class conjugal weapon.
But we prefer a Thesaurus ourselves.
ABSENCE.
It was a warm night and a dark,
So he thought he’d dive in, for a lark ;
But he never uprose,
E’en to ask for his clothes.
For more news, why apply—to the shark.
The Murrumburrah Signal says that a
snake was killed up in that district lately which,
when opened, was found to contain an Iguana
three feet long. This shows that a country editor
can swallow more than a snake. Which we always
thought.
The Victorian engine-driver accused of
tampering with Woods’ brake attached to his
machine has been exonerated. It was shown (1)
that he Avas four miles away when the affair took
place, (3) that he was not on duty at all on that
day, and (3) that he had been dead a fortnight
before the occurrence.
At a Q’sland meeting of directors, the other
day, a lot of shares were forfeited for non-pay-
ment of calls, on the motion of a director who
actually had not paid his own calls, and owed the
same number as did those whose shares he moved
should bo forfeited: worse still, with one excep-
tion all these shareholders are non-residents. So
that some of the Q’sland mining men are worth
watching. A year or two ago, a well-known
Sydneyite sent to Gympie £lOO as first payment on
shares in a company some ingenuous Northeners
were trying to float, -fix months afterwards he
fot a letter stating that as the company couldn’t
e floated they returned a cheque for his £loo—
interest, you know. Within a week from
the receipt of the letter in question be saw by the
daily papers that they were getting from the claim
he had tried to Invest in, gold almost in bucketfuls.
The clever men had utilised his money in develop-
ing the claim, and, when they knew beyond doubt
they had a good thing, they quietly kicked him
out. Had the reef ‘* given out,” shares would have
been allotted and he’d have had to go on paying
calls. Fellows who can do this kind of thing
should go to Sandhurst. “ Heads, I win; tails, you
lose.”
That shrewd ultra-Liberal Mr. Carey, the
representative of Vasse in the West Australian
Legislative Council, has hit the mark in a late
address to his constituents. In it he points out
that the Legislature is mainly composed of
squatters, who make laws for their own advantage,
and ignore agricultural interests. Out of the
elected members, no, less than thirteen are
squatters, leaving but three to represent the great
body of the community! And yet. according to
th a last census, there were only 301 squatters in the
whole colony! This is squattocratic rule with a
vengeance. Mr. Carey is an ex-Government sur-
veyor, and thoroughly versed in all the many
phases of land jobbery. He is keen, practical, and
no moan debater, and has ever been a thorn Injthe
side of the Conservative monopolists in the
Western Legislature.
Positive, ill; comparative, pill; superla-
tive, bill.
The eventful life of a Queensland trooper
produces a power of reasoning which at times
almost reaches to inspiration. Thus, the other
day. the body of a man was found in a creek near
Mackay, minus head and arms. There was a boot
Avith a spur attached on one of the feet, and an
alligator was found near the body. Prom this the
police immediately concluded that the rest of that
man was inside the alligator. In a similar way
when we see one of our own defenders of the
peace passing a pie-dish over a back fence, we at
once infer where the pie has gone. Which shows
that Ave are almost clever enough to be policemen
ourselves.
The Mayor of Grafton is a generous man,
with a considerable tinge of humour in his gene-
rosity. When he was down in Sydney lately, he
purchased a number of garden-seats for presenta-
tion to his toAvn. They are to be placed under the
trees facing the river—in a quiet place, in fact.
Evidently Be has the comfort of courting couples
at heart. The good man may now go to bed xvith
the serene co fldence that when he is in the heaven
of aldermanic dreams, drinking champagne and
dining on fat turkey, the balmy breeze of eve will
carry on its wings the prayer from lips of grateful
lovers “ God bless the Mayor of Grafton.”
Different courtships start off in different
ways. Alexander Magnus made a bonfire of the
palace of the Persian kings, just to show Thais
how he longed to love her as Mrs. A.; Newton
poked down the hot weed in his pipe with his
sweetheart’s linger, and she subsequently gave the
old boy a bang on the ear; the long-tongued
“ Arabian Night’s ” Scheherazade told her husband
stories (most all wives do); Barkis insinuated;
Cobbett’s wife roped him in by the style in which
she handled soapsuds at the tub (she never did so
after marriage); but the following item is the most
surprising of all. At a fashionable concert, a young
masher, whilst swarming over a stall chair, acci-
dentally (we presume) kicked a young lady, who
was sitting before him, rather sharply in the back.
But he apologised so sincerely, and so sweetly
withal, that he Avas at once forgiA T en, and a conver-
sation started. Soon after this the pair met, bowed,
and passed on. A few days, that seemed years,
ensued; and then they met in the same spot, bowed,
and did not pass on Now they are engaged to be
married. By and bye, perhaps, he will not only
kick her in the back, but kick in her ribs, and rap
her over the head with his list as well. Anyway,
it is held by some that he usurped a married
man’s privilege the very first moment he started
courting.
Chivalry is not yet dead. Banished from
the Courts of Sovereigns, it has taken refuge in
Police Courts. James Smith and Sarah Sykes (the
names are fictitious, but the deed is as true as—
gospel) elected to spend a day together in the open
air, and chose the Victorian Government Domain
for their alfresco enjoyment. Not being Salvation-
ists or Blue Ribbonlsts, a dozen of stout helped them
to pass the time agreeably, and intensified their
appreciation of nature’s beauties. Porter leads to
song, and song, alas! leads in a crow-line to the
lock-up. No men are less susceptible to melody
than the Melbourne police, so next morning James
and Sarah found themselves blinking at Mr. Call,
the Magistrate, from that dock which has been
such an unpleasant halfway-house to so many. A
40s. fine each, or fourteen days, was the result of
the interview. And now comes the strange part
of the affair. It was found that James had £3l3s. 6d.
on him -a fact which shows how disorganised the
“foorce” is becoming. Then he volunteered to
pay for Sarah, and “ take it out in sawn-stuff ” (i.e.
on deal boards) himself. Mr. Call was touched, and
reduced his fine to lOs.—so that both left the “ pur-
loins” (vide a Victorian M.L.A.) of the court with
no stain to speak of. Had poor Sarah, instead of
taking an honest hodman for a companion, placed
her hopes in a “ swell,” she would now be pining
in a prison cell.
The profession (police) for which we enter-
tained an early predilection which increases with
our baldness, is the very one a cruel fate has
hitherto prevented our embracing. While other
boys “ wagged” it to seethe “ Blues” relieve guard
at Windsor, the colours trooped at St. James’s
Palace, or the Beef-eaters assemble at the Tower,
our thoughts ran on the far nobler duties per-
formed so unostentatiously by X 666 in preserving
us from the Ishmaels of society. To wear blue,
carry a baton, and have the run of West End
kitchens, appeared to us the true solution of the
old conundrum—the height of felicity. But our
ardour in this direction has received a rude shock
by hearing how the “ foorce” is treated in Queens-
land. The Government there are so much occu-
pied with the high game of annexing countries as
large as France, that they cannot spare time to
remedy the grievances of the rural bobby. A
prisoner is arrested in a bush town. He has to be
shepherded for hundreds of miles by a policeman.
The officer’s coach and railway fares are paid by
the department and two shillings a day allowed
him to support himself on the journey. Putting
up at bush “pubs,” paying your way on 3s. a day,
is about as easy as to keep from going to sleep
over the leader in a country paper. Nor does the
farce end here. When the bobby finds his diges-
tive apparatus in want of repair, he is allowed ss. to
obtain the best medical advice.
Marwood being dead, “who’s the neck’s
customer?”
Never countenance sweeps. Evil acts bring
their own punishment. We know a young man
who won £lOOO in Tattersall’s consultation last
year. He got—drunk, you will say. No, he got
married.
Trading in horses induces a moral strabis-
mus in the straightest men. Travelling for a
sewing-machine Arm, appears to have just the
same effect. Scarcely a day passes but some one
in the latter branch has to turn his face towards
Melbourne or Sydney, to give his version of why
certain moneys never got beyond his pocket.
Pat Brennan, police inspector, is doing
duty as Acting-Superintendent of Goulburn
trict, vice Captain Zouch, deceased. Pat is a genial,
game, cocky (not “game cocky,” Mr. Typo, for a
million ducats), all-round, square fellow. If he
hadn't been a policeman he’d have been a profes-
sional “ sport” of big calibre. By the way, he and
Mr. QuongTart are to report to Government on
the Chinese encampments of the colony, with a
view to legislation on the subject.
There is one thing about the life of a
country editor which wo have always envied. It
is the opportunity he has of accumulating a store
of quiet wisdom. As an instance, we quote for
you a wise little paragraph from the Maoleay
HERAtiD:— “To ride furiously after a horse is only
to drive it on more madly. The proper way is to
let the animal fall into a walk, and quietly follow
it up, then sagaciously manage your point.” Of
course. Seems plain enough, doesn’t it, when you
see it? But there is the point. One might live in
the city a hundred years and never have made
such a discovery. It was in the country, too, we
suppose, that the plan of c itching a bird by
putting salt on its tail was first found out. We
have a dim suspicion, though, that the editor ob-
tained this happy inspiration from observing the
habits of his own liery charger. They do say that
when he wants to catch this Ukraine steed he
shows it a shoeful of oats, and it is so overcome at
the sight that all he has to do is go up to it and
hang his hat on its shoulder-blade. But perhaps
this is mere malice. Even country editors have
enemies. And this suggests to us another sup-
position. Perhaps the Macleay Herald intended
this horse-c itching paragraph to be read by one
of these. Or another supposition still. Perhaps
he knows all about ;t, because he was a horse him-
self once. Now, of course, he is—a country editor.
To “other-aiders.” as they are called, some
West Australian experiences have been of a de-
cidedly phenomenal character. A few years back
there was but one steamer plying along the coast
between Albany, Fremantle, and Champion Bay.
This vessel, the Georgette, was the property of a
New Zealand company, who received the nice
little sum of £4OOO a year for running that by
no means magnificent craft, and charging
most exorbitant prices for the most wretched fare
and accommodation. But this monopoly led to
other peculiar autocratic eccentricilies. Any one
whom the firm happened to have a grudge against
was liable at any time to be refused a passage.
To business men this was a very serious matter.
But the denouement came at last. A shrewd
“commercial,” repre enting a large Adelaide
houre, having shown in a business transaction that
he could give this very smart firm a few points in
smartness, was refused a passage to Champion
Bay. The result was a Supreme Court action, in
which the company were mulcted in £l5O damages
and heavy costs. The Georgette ultimately ful-
filled her true mission by quietly foundering on a
clear, calm day, in a smooth sea, a few hundred
yards from the port of Vasse, when en route to
Albany. A moiety of her passengers were
drowned, while the rest escaped with the loss of
their property, which in some Instances meant
their all. A Miss Grace Bussell developed into a
heroine on this occasion by riding through the
breakers from the shore, and swimming her horse
to the rescue of several of the drowning pas-
sengers, whom she thus succeeded in saving. And
thus e ds the history of the first virtual West
Australian steam service.
The question of interference with the “ Do-
main howlers” is a very much wider one than
would bo understood by the perusal of the brief
discussion in the Assembly the other day. It
seems on the surface scarcely to admit of argu-
ment. That a few zealots should be permitted to
gaiher crowds by declamation of an hysterical
sort of Christianity, or by equally vulgar exposi-
tions of “rationalism,” seems too much to ask of
society. The churches are open on Sundays, and
so are the lecture-theatres, so that there is a
supply of religion to suit all palates. It seems an
easy and reasonable thing to instruct the police or
the park-keepers to remove any persons gathering
crowds by harangues. But just here is the diffi-
culty. A very large majority view with dislike
the expositions and diatribes of Park howlers. The
regular clergy, the regular church-goer, the pro-
fessional lecturer, and the habitual attendant at
Sunday secular lectures, probably agree in regard-
ingwitn disfavour the al-frescn performances in the
Domain. But when sentiment is pushed on one
side, and the principles connected with open air
deliverances and public gatherings are considered,
it must be perceived that there are reasons for
proceeding cautiously. A majority has the right
to have its own way, but not the right to stifle
discussion or debate. And it is just as practicable
to stifle debate or discussion by imposing condi-
tions as to where and how such discussion or
debate may or may not take place, as by prohibit-
ing their occurrence altogether. It would never
do, for instance, to rule that theology should not
be taught—whether right theology or wrong theo-
logy is immaterial—except in a church or hall.
And it would never do to limit the right of public
meeting by similar regulations. If it once be
ruled that two or three may not meet together in
a public reserve to discuss or to hear speeches on
one subject and on one day, it will be an
easy step to prescribe the subjects which
may be publicly discussed, and to extend
the limitation to every day. The popu-
lace must be afforded opportunities of assembling
at discretion, and of listening to anyone who has
that to say which interests them. And for these
Soses no place can be more appropriate than a
c reserve, and no day more appropriate than
one when most of the workers are relieved from
their ordinary avocations and in the way of meet-
ing one another.
HOMEWARD BOUND.
Fancy sketch of Mr. Brown, who has lost on the Cup, has been sleeping on the billiard
table in consequence of the crush at his hotel, and is just two minutes late for the
Express.
JOHNNY.
It was a marble monument—
One summer’s morn v, e found it;
A noble grave-mark, and it had
A gilded rail around it.
And seated by some bright-hued flowers,
In all the summer’s glory,
An old man rocked himself with grief,
And tore his long locks hoary.
“ What ails you now, you old, old man? ”
“ I weep my bairn so bonny!
He’s buried there; and here behold
The tombstone of my Johnny!
“ At seven, sir, he passed away;
Once flesh, now he’s — a cinder;
It seems that I can see him now
His top fling through a winder!
“ I hear him say his little prayers:
At that few was his ekal;
At first he'd pray for brother Will,
Then steal his bread and treacle.
“ And now he’s with t’ e angels bright—
The place light ne'er grows dim in.
Ah I no more Tn his father’s bath
His small shoes He’ll be swimmin’.
“ His eyes were of a fairy blue—”
“ Your yarn, please, old man, close up!
How came the child you loved so well
To turn his little toes up? ”
“ I’ll tell you how the child,” he said,
“ Became as dead as Packer—
He gave the circus elephant
A big plug of terbacker.”


Department of Public Instruction.
Sydney, Bth November, 1883.
TENDERS FOR ENLARGEMENT OF CLASS-
ROOM.
TENDERS are invited for the Enlargement o
the Class-room, at the Druitt Town Public
School.
Plans and specifications may be seen, and Form!
of Tender obtained at the office of the Departmen
of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Enlargement ol
Class-room, Druitt Town Public School,” mus'
be lodged with the Acting Under-Secretary
Department of Public Instruction, at or before
11^u m V,9 n - Wednesda 5 r ’ the 28th November, 1883.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
G. H. REID.
MERCHANTS, and
°^ ER xA dvert iser is desirous of invest-
ing a *lOOO or two in some profitable pursuit where
he could be employed. Would erect a store in new
locality, or join another in shipping 1 , or otherwise
Bonus given for suggestion for any genuine enter-
prise. Open a month, any colony.
H. STANLEY, 11 Cowper-terrace.
Clarence-street, Sydney,
INFORMATION wanted about FRED. IVORY,
or WILLIAMS, who was last heard of in
Sydney about four years ago. If he will apply to
Colin Douglas, care of Gordon and Gotch, Bris-
bane, he will hear of something to his advantage.
The choicest Australian floral
cards
are those published by
Messrs. TURNER and HENDERSON,
and only
To be OBTAINED at their ESTABLISHMENT
in Hunter-street.
They are very chaste and lovely, and can be had
with or without Christmas mottoes. All have
botanical names at foot of card.
Price, Is. each ; 10s. per dozen, post free.
PRESENTS. PRESENTS. PRESENTS
TURNER and HENDERSON
are now opening
CHOICE GOODS
of every description suitable for the
Coming Season.
Showroom on First Floor.
AIR-TIGHT SHOW CASE COMPY.,
67 GEORG n: STREET WEST.
Air-tight
SHOW
CASES
AT
LONDON
PRICES.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
P. R. HOLDSWORTH,
AUCTIONEER, VALUATOR,
House, Land & Estate Agent
63 ROYAL ARCADE, PITT STREET.
SHOP,
v
OFFICE,
AND
H otel-bar
FITTERS.
MOUNT DRUITT RAILWAY STATION.
To Close a Partnership,
PR. HOLDSWORTH will sell by publia aua-
• tion, on the Ground, on SATURDAY, 24th
November, 1883, at 3.30 p.m.,
The new and beautifully-situated village of
COLYTON,
bounded on the north by the Mount Druitt
Railway Station, on the south by the Great
Western Hoad.
Torrens’ Title, Liberal Terms.
Long Credit No Interest.
Large Allotments. Good Position.
Wide Hoads. Public School.
Free train and beautiful views.
Plans ready,
63 ROYAL ARCADE, PITT STREET.
MINTO. MINTO, MINTO.
PRELIMINARY ANNOUNCEMENT.
TjIOR SALE by auction, on the Ground, at an
early date, by
P. R, HOLDSWORTH,
The larget and best portion of the
TOWN OF MINTO.
Title of this portion—TOßßENS’.
Terms of the most liberal character.
SPECIAL TRAINS. FREE TICKETS.
Sent post free for Is. stamps to defray postage.
“ TRUTH,”
A TREATISE showing the under-surface evils
rf*- of society that cause Impediments to Mar-
nage ; Celibacy ; Woman ; Advice to those about
ro Marry. Also, the Injury caused by the use f
a ,? d A1 c Coh 9': Ho Wto Regain and Preserve
your Health ; &c., &e. Address
R. T. WEBBY, M.H.,
DEVONSHIRE ST., SURRY HILLS, SYDNEY.
every
man
SHOULD
bead
Or. Marstoii s New Work
Describing how sufferer* from
Nervous and Physical Debility.
Mental Decay and all disorders
resulting from Excesses, Indis-
cretions or Overwork, are per-
manently Cured
Without Stomach Medicines.
WXAi, SKKVWK, 4SI) IJIPOTIST
*K.\ KKSTOUD TO
VIGOR, HEALTH k MANHOOD
Consultation with Physician
and Book FREE. Address—
Mars ton Remedy Co.,
78 XUZASXTE ST. ( BTEFIT.
315 George Street.
A t®,7 of .°ur undertakings MOST SUCCESS
r r out, among which will be found
MOST DIFFICULT, and MOST
KEoPONSIBLE events that have taken place since
the opening of this establishment.
Ills Worship the MAYOR’S PICNIC, for 450, at
Clontarf.
«is Worship the MAYOR’S BALL, for 1600, Exhi-
bition Building, at which his Worship. John
"arm, entertained their R.H.’s PRINCES AL-
BERT and GEORGE, EARL CLANWILLIAM,
and the Officers of the Detached Squadron.
PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Lithgpw Valley Mines and Zigzag.
Dinner a la Russc, for 60, in Government Palace
Dmmg Car while travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000 SCHOOL CHlL-
ifsft’ 8 Statue Demonstration—under
VERY SHORT NOTICE, only receiving the
order at 2.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot at 12.30
p.m. the following day.
V ™t ofTHEIR R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
HRO'RGE to Captain Cook’s Landing, south side
of Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon and refresh-
ment, for 100, under VERY SHORT NOTICE, re-
noeiring order at 9.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot
at 1 p.m. following day.
ENCAMPMENT at the
NATIONAL PARK, Friday and Saturday, sth
and 6th October, 1883. Breakfasts, Luncheons,
Dinners, &c., for 120 gentlemen.
The LADY MAYORESS’ RECEPTIONS, Town
Hall.
The UNION CLUB BACHELOR’S BALL, at Exhi-
bition Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE WINDBYER.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE INNES.
Dinner A la Rime at St. Paul’s College, for 150 Mem-
bers of the CBURCH OF ENGLAND SYNOD.
BuMe 10 th e INTERCOLONIAL RIFI E
TEAMS, Town Hall.
and Refreshment Bars at HAWKBS
BURY RACES, in Grand Stand.
® nd Refreshment Bars at RAND-
WICK RACES, in Grand Stand.
The CONSULAR DINNER, in our new Banquet
Room.
ARMIDALE RAILWAY Demonstrations. Ban
quet for 400; MAYOR’S BALL, 600, same evening
and CITIZEN’S BALL, 500, the foßowing eve?
ing.
A feSS? T '^ O]DONGA RAILWAY DEMONSTRA-
T r Government Banquet for 1016
®t Albury. Grand Ball, 800, following night.
Children s feast,; 1184, the following afternoon
and evening. Also, Breakfasts, Dinners, Teas,
and Suppers, in Government Dining Car, to
His Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus, the
Ministry, and Ms.P., while travelling to and
from Banquet, Ac., &c.
N and Entertainments by HIS
WORSHIP THE MAYOR at Town Hall, Ac.
Numerous Dinners A la Rusae in the N.S.W
GOVERNMENT PALACE DINING CAR, while
by raiI ’ on account of the GOVERN
MBNT.
Together with a numerous lot of Private Dinners.
Feasts, Weddings, Garden Parties, Bails, Ter
Meetings Land Sales, Suppers, Picnics, Fishlm
Excursions, Ac.
CADET EXAMINATION, SURVEY OFFICE.
I 'Pi® hereby notified that an Examination of
Candidates for Employment as Cadets in the
Department of the Surveyor-General will be held
on the 38th, 29th, and Kith of November next.
Candidates must have attained the age of 16 years,
or they will not be eligible for examination.
Intending competitors can obtain further in-
formation upon applying by letter to the Surveyor-
General, or personally to the Secretary and
Cashier.
(Signed) P. F. ADAMS,
Q „ „ „ Surveyor-General.
Surveyor-General’s Office,
Sydney, 10th October, 1883.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
&T" 308 GEORGE BTREET.
OJL!( ScoldiWf]i^
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the- NEW TOBACCO
The LION BED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO!
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins : therefore
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
k^ eee £ Tobacco like the favourite LION
which combines a very superior quality
HHEYOE, TODMAN & CO.,]
YORK STREET. SYDNEY.
WOOL SALES, 1883.
MY very numerous constituents, and all In-
terested in the wool trade, will please take
notice that my unrivalled
NEW WAREHOUSE
Darling Harbour Railway Terminus
Will be READY FOR THIS SEASON, and that I
as&esrssiis to th *
Each lot will be carefully Weighed and Valued
M received, weights and valuations being
submitted to owners so as to hear from them be-
fore sale if necessary.
Owing, now, to the attendance of Foreign
Buyers, our market is equal to the London Market
—a point well worth remembering. Any Bank or
Firm holding liens on wool will, if asked, allow
owners to send their wool to me ; and any For-
warding Agents, or Managers of Railways or
Steam Companies, will receive and forward Wool
or other Produce on my account, and pay carriage
or other expenses.
ALL PROCEEDS OF SALE will be available, as
at ,f NY TIME after sales ;or i.D-
effected ’ or ar 8’ e > made before sales are
STOCK. TALLOW. HIDES,
DRAIN, SUGAR, and every sort of Produce will
also meet with the greatest possible care.
JOHN BRIDGE.
MORT and CO. (Limited),
WOOL AND GENERAL
PRODUCE BROKERS.
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
Grain and Flour Brokers.
Wool,
LIBERAL ADVANCES
made on
Sheepskins,
Tallow,
Hides, Wheat, \
Tin Ore, and
for SALE and shipment" PrOdUCB
WOOl 3 QUILT 06 Stor «
and
DARLING HARBOUR, SYDNEY.
A. & T. PRINGLE & CO.,
889.8
44 MARKET ST.
SYDNEY,
Importers of
WEIGHING
MACHINES,
AGRICULTURAL
IMPLEMENTS,
AND
MACHINERY.
BROWN & MAY’S
Portable Engines, Saw Benches, Chaff Cutters,
Horse Gear, &c.
ÜBLIO NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON k. CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 482 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
Two DOORS NORTH OF OLD RH«
32 COLLEGE STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
i • ARTIFICIAL TEETH on the most approved Eng-
hsh Principles, Fitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastlca-
tlon, N atural Appearance, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping, Scaling, and Extractions skilfully
performed.
James Carroll,
FREE SELECTORS’ & MINERS’ LAND
AGENT,
WENTWORTH HOUSE, CHURCH HILL.
SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
FOWLER’S POTTERY and
BRICKWORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application
w. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and Magazines received by
every MalL
ROYAL ARCADE. 4M GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
Pianos! Pianos! Pianos!
FREE TRADE and NO MONOPOLY.
Live and Let Live, these are Our Mottoes.
that the Foundations cl
Fortunes have been established upon the
Ptoflta arising- from the SALE OF PIANOSIn this
P* ty . d unng the past Twenty Years by those
°I R? knowledge of the Construction
Stalls o f the Pianoforte. While giving the
Public the benefit of our Mr. Young’s 26 years’
personal practical experience (5 years in John
Broadwood and Sons, London, and 30 in N.8.W.)
we will, at the same time, be satisfied with a fair
c^°P eratl ve Principle, sharing
with our Customers. We will sell from
»**««*• i® BB than the same class of Instrument
t^» Pur ?i has 5 d at an 7 Music Shop in Sydney,
and we will offer nothing for Sale we cannoi
guarantee. American Organs at proportionately
hJtoTT .A 180 » Large Stock of Kohn’s (W
bl ?£ed Austrian Furniture, a single article of
which we are selling at Wholesale Prices.
c Jpu i e and See Our LITTLE BEAUTIES In Wal-
aud IhiU Iron Frame, at £25 cash, Eleswhere
Sm more ’ ° r un^er a Time Payment Sy»-
George E. Young and Co.,
286 PITT STREET,
South of Royal Arcade.
Singer’s Sawing Machines.
TURNER - & CO.
Are the Recognised Agents of the
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS:
2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week.
And no interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
BT BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE “ SINGER,"
TURNER & COMPANY,
353 George-street,
THE ONLY “SINGER.”
Turner and Company,
578 GEORGE STREET.
Champagne
Heidsieck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS & Co., London.
Sole Agents for Heidsieck & Co., Reims.
GARTON’S HOTEL,
SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
X»MSMl d TI^ E R I a. A ° COMMODi -
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. G. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 345.
SEARL & SONS,
NURSERYMEN, SEEDSMEN, BOUQUBTISTi,
And Artistic Floral Dinner-table Decorators,
3 and 6 GEORGE-STREET MARKETS, SYDNEY;
Also,
BLAIR ATHOL NURSERY, PETERSHAM.
tSr ~ Pelargoniums now in full bloom. Inspection
Invited.
MOULTON'S
FRUIT
FRUIT p C ILLS L7 W^ T rr, cared by MOULTON’S
1" uiJL PILLS. We mean cored, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and no
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT .il., 00
PPPSTA IOUSNE t SS, T>? reVenfc GONSTJPATIGN and UYSU
promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from tw
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH*
THE BMOD U S’?? UIato t tho BOWELS, and PURIFY
luri BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
T ege^bl ! C ma de of the sSt ef FnS
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be *
Sold Everywhere, Price Is. 3d.
0. E, MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
SMLO
Vj
ma
BOAR'S HEAD STOUT.— This favourite knee
of Stout selected with great care from iK.
asauafsa


JAMES YOUNG, Sole Agent,
No. 9 CHANGE ALLEV.
jyj" ADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns
of
Dresses, Manti.es, &c.,
and
Weigel’s Journal of
Fashions,
which contains the latest styles, are sold by the
following agents
George Slater, Stationer, 39 Oxford-st., Sydney
Mrs. Beales, Fancy Repository, Regent-st., Redfern
Mrs T. H. drifflths, Milliner, 335 Kmg-st., Newtown
Mrs. C. Chapman, Fancy Repository, Church-st.
south, Parramatta
Principal Retail Office:
161 KING-STREET (near Elizabeth-st.), Sydney.
EAU DE
4711.
COLOGNE.
4711.
ESTABLISHED 1792.
Gold Medal, Moscow, 1872.
Prize Medal, Vienna, 1873.
EAU
COLOGNE, so favourably
DE
This
known
last 35 years.
Exhibition the -—~-
PRIZB Sydney International Exhibition, for its
superior sweetness, strength, and invigorating
qualities, excelling all other competitors.
It has become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the
ELITE OF EUROPE.
The large and constantly increasing demand for
the genuine 7411 EAU DE COLOGNE, not only in
Europe, but also in North and South America,
India; and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number 4711 changed into 7411,1147, 4117, &c., &c.
The real genuine article, which carried off the
Prize Medal at the Vienna Exhibition, is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue and gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents-ELLIOTT BROTHERS. Pitt-
street, Sydney. To be had at the principal Per-
fumers, Druggists, and Storekeepers in town and
country.
mu
COMFORTABLE TEETH
The use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are tbiee kinds, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the Yellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to persons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
gums,decay and offensive breatli, for by using a few
drops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never suffer again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution. —To guard against fraudulent imitations,
ee that each Label bear* the name, “ Wilcox and
Co., 239 Oxford-street, London."
W
ASTHMA,COUGH, BRONCHITIS.
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate relief in
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis,
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them invaluable, as they Instantly check the
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine V endors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudvlentimitations,
see that each box bears the name of “ Wilcox and
Co., 289 Oxford-street, London."
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. Jambs Curtis,
■CJand-ertalcer,
84 HUNTER * PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also.
Manager for over ten (10) years.
Foster 's Bugle Brand.
WOOL SBASO >, 1883-4.
R. Goldsbroujh & Co.
(LIMITED),
In which are amalgamated The Australasian
Agency and Banking Corporation (Limited),
and R. Goldsbrough and Co.,
WOOL, & GRAIN BROKERS.
Capital. .
£2t,nno.ooo.
BEG to notify the Woolgrowers of New South
Wales and Queensland that they make
Liberal Cash Advances, on favourable terms, on
the ensuing clip of Wool, and on Station securities.
They have also much pleasure in announcing that
their NEW WAREHOUSES at Darling Harbour
will be ready for the reception and sale of Wool,
Auction Sales of which will be held every FRIDAI
throughout the season. This department will
remain under the control of an efficient, staff or
experts, who will take charge of and Sell to the
Best Advantage all consignments entrusted to the
Company’s care. The Sale* of Fat
Homebush), Station and Freehold Propeitles,
Grain, Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, and General
Station Produce, will be under the superindence of
Mr. GEORGE MAIDEN. The Warehouses will be
unrivalled in the Southern Hemisphere for extent
and adaptability to the trade, being replete with
every Modern Improvement for the Efficient Dis-
play of Wool, the sale of which will b- conducted
on the Melbourne system. Large and complete
samples of each clip will be shown m the well-
lighted SAMPLE ROOMS, which comprise the
whole of the upper floors, and as the bulk will be
easily accessible in the various rooms, which are
convenient to each other, the fullest facilities will
be available for inspection, thus ensuring the ut-
most confidence in purchasing. Prior to offering,
valuations will be made by several experienced
valuators, and their valuations will he carefully
compared before the wool is submitted for sale.
The various lots, no matter how small, will be pro-
tected up to the full market value As they con-
fine their business strictly to that of SELLING
BROKERS ONLY, the best guarantee is afforded
that na parcel will be sold for less than its worth.
Farmers’ Lots receive special attention, every bale
and sack In the clip being shown in the Sample
Rooms. Should owners’ expectations not be
realized in Sydney, they have the advantage of
trying the Melbourne market before deciding on
shipment, « which latter case the Company is pre-
pared to make liberal cash advances at lowest
market rates, and consign to the English, Conti-
nental, or American markets lor disposal. The
chartres on Wool offered for sale, but not sold, are
onfy ONE SHILLING PER BA]Le, which includes
Receiving, Warehousing, Insurance whilst instore,
and Delivering.
LONDON—IS 6 k 157 LEADENHALL STREET.
MELBOURNE—BOURKE & WILLIAM STREETS.
SYDNEY-4 SPRING STREET.
WRIGHT, HEATON & CO.
(LIMITED).
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE :
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.S.W.:
Goulhum
Yass
Downing
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Bock
Cui cairn
Cowabee
Narandera
Hulong
Carrathool
Hay
Western District, N.S.W.:
Capertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromlne
Nevertire
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblln
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
Northern District, N.8.W.;
Morpeth
Gunnodah
Narrabri
Walgett
Brewarrina
Tamworth
Uralla
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Line:
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby
Yeulba
Cambooya
Central Line;
Rockhampton
Bogantungau
Emerald
Capelia
Comet
Northern Line:
Townsville Ravenswood Junction
Charters Towers
Agents In Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M'CULLOCH ft CO., LIMITED.
’ Agencies in all parts of the world.
M3RELLAS
1 RE-COVERED.
CJTUDY ECONOMY
and
Have yourU mbrelia Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
541 George ftroet.
Brickfield Hill,Between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
cuted.
E*m
' HOT WATER BATHS
HAW ORtSSINC: WICHAKINC ESTAf
/ 137. 139,£ I4| OXFORD £ T
HALF HOLIDAY CtSFftY r/fVASoAY
AND
CHEST AFFECTIONS
Thomas Ingham
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
WIRE WORKERS,
W
IBH to call your attention to WIRE GOODS
we make and have in stock as under
FLOWER STANDS, for holding flowers in pots,
made of iron and wire, handsomely framed and
bronzed, suitable for rooms, halls, balconies, ver-
andahs, and conservatories. Also, WIRE FERN
ouuauo, wubvs v
BASKETS, all sizes and
lEVBS and (
ivel, coal, &c
zee and prices.
SCREENS, for screening lime,
~ all meshes, from 1 hole to 100
_ rices.
SIEVES ’ and
gravel, coal, & .
holes to the squares inch.
WIRE LATTICE-WORK, for protection of win-
dows from breakage caused by nail-storms or boys’
throwing stones. Also, WIRE NETTING, all sizes,
from 12 in. to 72 in. wide.
CAGES of every description, for canaries and
parrots, singly or in nests, suitable for store-
keepers.
And every description of WIRE WORK made on
the premises.
EASTWAY, BROTHERS,
413 GBORGE-STRBET,
pr Illustrated Catalogues on application.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
IV. H. Ariel! and Co.’s Agencies.
Canter-
Cakes,
Plum Puddings, Mincemeat, Self-raising
ASrated Flour, Infant’s Food, Treacle and
EXUEl^Slß^SSiiLS.—Superior Victorian Oat-
meal and Pearl Barley.
DILLON & BURROWS’ prize assorted Confeo-
J. OTcIt?EN & SONS, No. 1 Mottled and Toilet
J. & CO.’S Coffee, Mustard, Cocoa,
Tea, in Hslb. and Üb. packets ; dressed Rice,
and Patent Groats.
HUNT & CO.’S Prize Baking Powders, Adelaide
Jams Paper Bags, &c.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
BLEND
JMARKj
[trade]
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.—This Is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
Dining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
ALCOCK& CO.’S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES
I
SOLE AGENTS:
■P
375 George-st., Sydney.
TIME PAYMENTS, IF REQUIRED.
Be
3
Sc
Pi
M
&
&
•5
m
&
E—tar
3?
=?■
al
>V?
Si
‘■'*A
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and
in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
Virgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
Robert butcher & co.
(Late William Long),
f»r- WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Order! receive prompt attention.
TO CONNOIBBURB of WHISKEY & BRANDY.
W. & A. Gllbey’s CASTLE BRAND WHIS-
KEY and L’OR EXTRAIT BRANDY are the
oldest and purest spirits imported.
TUCKER & CO., Agents,
377 George-street.
EVERY DESCRIPTION OP FISHING TACKLE,
Wholesale and Retail.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE STREET,
A. ©ORMAN,
Late of the Telegraph Hotel, Inverell,
HAS OPENED THE
‘ Clarean-d-om.,’
Comer of ELIZABETH & PARK. Streets,
And which he Intends to keep as a flrst-olaas Hotel,
A. G. hopes, by strict attention to Business, to
gain a share of their PATRONAGE. VISITORS
FTOT RLS for AC/Wi*iVX/4ixxv/it Wiivi VVV* J
VENIUNCE ; and, as it overlooks HYDE PARK, it
murt necessarily be WELL VENTILATED.
SUITES of BOOMS for FAMILIES,
as per agreement.
HOT and COLD WATER BATHS.
PORTER in Attendance Day and Night.
It is not necessary to mention the quality of the
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, &c. &c„ as he is, and al-
ways has been, noted throughout th* COLON Ikb
for gelling nothing but the very beat
W 1
ILCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4lO
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn sheller*
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
&o. &c. &c.
HEBBLEWHITE & CO.’
416 GEORGE STREET.
A
DINNER,
ONE
SHILLING. tV
o<
* s
CD
ej
BS
>
ga
*
K
i
PITT STREET.
& NEXT TATTERSALL’S.
All Meals One shilling.
J. C. GREENFIELD, PhOPBI**O».


Co,’
RUM
spared according: to the directions o Prof.
E. N. Hereford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED FOR
;ISPEPBIA, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
-IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
hysteria, wakefulness, sea-sickness.
WEAKENED ENERGY, &c.
No Danger can Attend its Use
Nervous Depression from Overwork.
Sluggish Circulation and Growing: Chil-
dren.
T . , . Sandusky. 0., May 21, 1880,
I have used your Acid Phosphate and can pro-
nounce it a very valuable addition. I find it use-
ful and beneficial in nervous dyspepsia, nervous
depression following overwork and anxiety, as well
as the gastric derangements. Where there is
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation, a dull,
heavy head, it is of undoubted value. Fast grow-
ing children require this valuable addition.
W. K. PAGE, M.D.
Liver and Kidney Derangements.
r , , Boston, Mass., May 18,1680.
In regard to the Hereford's Acid Phosphate, I
have used it very extensively, and with the most
remarkable success.
I give it in dyspepsia and in all cases where there
is derangement of the liver and kidneys. With
my patients it has agreed wonderfully.
O. O. GILLEY, M.D
Nerve Tonic.
A. S. Carpenter, M,D., Keene, N.H., says :
. Hereford’s Acid Phosphate is a valuable medi-
cine. I have taken it myself, and for several
years prescribed it for my patients, when suffering
from indigestion or innervation of the digestive
organs, and always with satisfactory results. It is
a good nerve tonic, and in some cases of morbid
urine, ‘ it acts like a charm,’ producing the desired
result. It is pleasant to the taste, acceptable to the
stomach, and is, in my opinion, an excellent and
valuable compound.”
)Can be borne by the most Sensitive
Stomachs.
Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 1880.
Hereford’s Acid Phosphate, in elegance of com-
position, stands unrivalled. It is pleasant to the
taste, and can be borne by the most sensitive
stomach. Have prescribed it with marked benefit
in indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms an
excellent substitute for lemon juice, and as such
will furnish a refreshing drink for the sick.
A. L. HALL. M.D.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
luCstgric Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDV
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
“ It Works like a Charm.”
It is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches fire. It cures
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Braises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, L.: xne Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in ti; e Neck or Back.
As an internal remedy it tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morbus, C.-amps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, S »re Threat, and Dvo-
therla.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use in
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers It,
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported into this country, and have
gained throughoa ithe bionics such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected aud
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the iron-work consists of the very besi
Steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. )
leather, and the upholstery Is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their . nish
BECAUSE they are each and ail built under special
instructions to, aud personal supervision of
one of the leaning carriage builders in America,
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say they are thb
best.
American Carriage Emporium,
WTNTARD SQUARE, SIDNEY.
BARRON .MOXHAM & CO„
k-e UnCntS
A company has been recently formed at
Paris for the utilization of solar heat. The inven-
tion consists of a huge reflector not unlike an
inverted umbrella. In the centre of this, and
occupying the position of the umbrella stick, Is a
standard boiler, made of a material highly conduc-
tive of heat. This receives the rays from the
whole reflector, and thus collects sufficient heat to
generate steam. In addition to motors the society
supplies domestic sun machines, which boil water,
prepare tea and coffee, grill chops and steaks, fry
eggs, and cook other food. Portable machines are
made for carrying on horseback, which will boil
water and serve a dinner on short notice. Since
this Invention could only be worked on a Sun-day,
the law of Charles 11. will interfere with its suc-
cessful introduction in N.S.W.
The Coffee Tavern movement is in a fair
way of being diverted from its original Intention.
They were introduced in the cause of temperance,
and for the benefit, primarily, of the working man.
But at the Prahran (Melb.) one, the Sev. W. 8.
Holland presided over a meeting convened to re-
quest the stoppage of all Sunday trains. A reso-
lution to that effect was passed; and, should action
be taken on it, the working men of Melbourne will
have to walk or do without their Sunday sniff of
the sea. It seems odd to see men, who do not care
about the sea themselves, passing a resolution to
keep others from it. By closing all means of
rational enjoyment, the clergy hope to drive men
to church by sheer weariness. Should that come
to pass, the punishment will be too great, and a
general revolt from priestly guidance will result.
When the Hon. H. H. Hooking, popularly
known as “ Handsome Harry,” late Attorney-
General of West Australia, had occasion some
Jears back to occupy the position of Acting Chief-
ustioe, he quite amazed the public and the bar,
who had been so long accustomed to the stern
dignity of Sir A. P. Burt, whose locum tencna he
then was. “ Handsome Harry ” varied the tedium
of listening to counsel’s addresses by apparently
going off into a gentle doze, sometimes leaning
back with his arms folded, or with his legs cooked
(Yankee style) up on the woodwork enclosing the
sacred woolsack. On one occasion he electrified
the Court during a heavy address from the Solici-
tor-General, by lighting his pipe, and without a
word, descending from the bench, and having a
quiet smoke in the tranquil rear of the Court-
house I He was, prior to his appointment to the
Imperial service, a iaw-reporter on the London
Times, and, though somewhat Bohemian and
eccentric, a sound lawyer. He was promoted
some years back to an Attorney-Generalship in
another Crown colony.
A Chinaman was baptised at Taree lately.
This will be good news for the ecclesiastical editor
of the Holt Howl. He can now reckon on meet-
ing a countryman in heaven. The hanging of Ah
Poo, the Chinese murderer, over in Adelaide, will
be equally good news to the man who writes snake
stories for the Rum. He can make certain of
meeting a countryman in hell.
The Mataura Ensign gives the following
statistics re the efforts of the New Zealand
Agricultural Co. to exterminate rabbits “ Skins
taken from Ist October, 1880, to Ist October, 1883,
3,536,772. As it is reckoned that not much more
than one-third of the poisoned rabbits are
picked up, the company must have destroyed
fully 6,000,000 rabbits during the three years.
The amount of poisoned oats laid out by the
company in the same period was 538,054 lbs.”
Judge Cooper, of Queensland, considers
that a doctor’s certificate is not sufficient excuse
for the non-attendance of a juror. So do we. We
think nothing should excuse a man from this duty.
As a matter of fact, in this colony nothing ever
does. We have seen men on juries who might
easily have obtained certificates of insanity, or
hereditary idiocy, from any respectable practi-
tioner, if these certificates were thought necessary.
Yes, indeed. Queensland is still a long way behind
us in practical jurisprudence. The certificate of a
gravedigger would hardly be sufficient excuse to
our Judges for non-attendance at court.
That gold was widely distributed we were
always aware, but we were certainly not prepared
to hear of its being dug out of an iceberg. The
skipper of a Newfoundland smack reports :
“ The solitary iceberg 1 saw had carrying along on
Its top surface a boulder of about two tons weight.
The crew of the Eagle succeeded in getting it
attached to one of the ship’s cables, and hoisted it
on board. It now lies on the quarter-deck of the
Eagle, and, strangely enough, it is of quartz forma-
tion, with some specimens of gold cropping
through it.” Had there been a Sandhurst or a
Ballarat man aboard, he would have started a
company among the sailors with a swell title such
as “ L’Etoile du Nord.” He would then induce the
seamen to mutiny, scuttle the vessel, and live on
the claim. By the time the “ berg ” reached the
Gulf Stream, it would be honeycombed with
shafts, drives, levels, and winzes scooped out with
marlin-spikes, and the skipper, working in irons,
would be “sloping” from a small spur of ice away
down near the bottom, while the Bendigo man
“ bossed ” the job to see if the reef was thrown out
of its course by a “ slide.”
J. Woods’ brake in Victoria is hardly the
success M.-A.-R.-Wood’s break was in the old
country.
In a garrison town it Is nothing unusual to
see a regiment paraded in open order, and a
draggled female, accompanied by a couple of
policemen, passing slowly through the ranks to
discover the gay deceiver. From our unfortunate
likeness to a notorious “ magsman,” we’ve had
frequently to fall to the rear and occupy the space
between the two bobbies. But there was always
a comrade handy who could be relied on to prove
that we were away on the “ bust ” with him when
the affair took place. These unpleasant remem-
brances of times long gone by were called to mind
a few days ago by reading that a Militia regiment
at Aldershot opened its ranks—much against its
will—m order that a Scotland Yard detective
might spot the warrior he wanted. The “ trap’s ”
practised eye ran over each man in turn, but the
culprit was nowhere to be seen. Before the left-
hand man of the rear rank he remained a long
time, as if struggling to remember where he had
seenhitn before. Then the Colonel said, pettishly.
This can’t be the man you want. He’s the best
Ive got in the regiment. You don’t mean to sav
you know him?’ r “No,” said the detective, sen-
tentiously, I don’t. He’s the only man in your
corps! don t know, and I was wondering where he
came from.
The Glen Innes Guardian has opened its
columns for conundrums. A Mrs. Lee, of that place,
had a hen possessing no noticeable originality ex-
cept that of never laying on a Sunday. When hard
pressed on that day, she would sit up till midnight
and then produce an egg with two yolks. In one
of these a needle was found embedded the other
day, and now the Guardian wants to know how
that there needle got into that there shell. De-
pending as it does on such a variety of circum-
stances, the question is not an easy one. Before
answering it, we would like to see the needle and
the egg and the hen and Mrs. Lee and the Guar-
DIAI f and Glen Innes; but as this is impossible, we
would offer the following solution:—The bird had
evangelical tendencies, and, in pursuit of know-
ledge, may have wandered into a church while
some clergyman like the late Dean Backhaus of
Sandhurst, or Bishop Barker of Sydney, was ex-
plaining the advantages of poverty as illustrated
by the camel and the needle. Being an ingenious
fowl, she might have come home, borrowed a
needle, and tried her chances of—[Booh I—Ed. B.]
This paragraph concerns a Bishop and a
graveyard. A few days ago, or a week or a fort-
night—time is of no consequence when talking of
these things-the R.C. Bishop of Maitland went up
to Tamworth to consecrate the slice of soil allotted
to the dead of his denomination in the local
cemetery. Several bottles of holy water were
sprinkled with a hand-brush over the ground.
Some prayers in Latin—which, being a dead lan-
guage, was a very appropriate one to use on such
an occasion -were said, and that particular part of
the cemetery was pronounced particularly holy.
So far very vood. Then the Bishop delivered an
address, in which he said that this burying-ground
was “ the property of the Church for whose benefit
it had been made over in perpetuity.” On this
account, therefore, those who died before repent-
ance could not be buried in this ground. Said
the Bishop ;—“ There were persons who were
nominally Catholics, but who never went to Con-
fession or Holy Communion, and who, when
suddenly called away, claimed to be interred with
Catholic rites, and it oftentimes happened that the
friends of such parties felt themselves aggrieved.
But the priests were not to blame. They could not
help themselves. They dare not give Christian
burial under such circumstances. It often hap-
pened that such cases wete reported in the news-
papers, and then there was great indignation ex-
pressed.” F- <r what we have said about a.:ch cases
we hereby humbly beg his Lordship’s pardon. We
were not aware that the Church could become a
landholder for everlasting and everlasting. Now
that we know this, we have only feelings of detes-
tation for those who try to smuggle their sinful
corpses into the company of the canonised dead.
It is manifestly unfair for people who have all the
fun they can get when living to expect to stretch
out in the odour of sanctity when dead. At the
same time, we are curious to know how long con-
secration keeps. We will give you an instance of
what we mean. In old countries, where religion
has been established for centuries, graveyards get
filled up, grown over with weeds and rank grass,
and are left to go to rack and ruin until their
original purpose is finally forgotten. We have seen
many such at home. Some of them receptacles for
rubbish, and given over to wandering goats—the
very devils of desolation; others with broken fences
and shattered headstones: and others turned into
potato patches, only the oldest inhabitant remem-
bering what they were originally. Now, we should
like to know if the consecration holds good
through all this. Does it extend to the potatoes
that grow in these grounds? We should think it
did. This will perhaps explain why in Ireland so
many young bog-trotters grow up on potatoes
with a vocation for the priesthood and a deadly
enmity to the devil, the base and bloody heretic,
and the toothbrush. One other thing we should
like to know, which is are there less worms in con-
secrated than in unconsecrated ground ? But we
suppose this depends a good deal upon the kind of
people buried in ea ffi place. After all, though, there
is np reason why anybody should object to the
ministers of a religion making use of their power
to refuse Christian burial to what is left of per-
sons who never cared for Christianity in their
lifetime, especially as the dead themselves are
probably the least interested in the matter. The
real core of the question, however, was touched
when the Bishop said that:—“ Father Ryan had
asked him to state that, as some expense had been
Incurred in the preparation of the ground, a col-
lection would lie made. It was the duty of every
one to give something for the glory of God.” God
(we say it with all due reverence! should have a
lot of glory by this time.
t
The “magsmen” and “spielers” of Mel-
bourne have held a meeting to consider the situa-
tion. They find that, through the representations
a licentious press, their means of livelihood are
threatened. Two courses were adopted. One was
to relinquish for ever the “three-card,” “ match-
box,” and “ New Zealand locket” tricks,and origi-
nate methods more in consonance with advancing
civilisation. The other was to try and subsidise
the police, press, and Premier. Considering the
existence of a coalition Government, whose
members are always on the alert to trip up their
confreres and form new combinations, it was
decided to let the Premier alone until the “ Radi-
cals ” got the upper hand again. The names of
M Intyre, Mackav, and Gaunson, who form the
head, trunk, and lower limbs of the Opposition
were freely mentioned, but the eccentric behaviour
of those members during the recent session sug-
gested that help from that quarter could not be
relied on. The police and press remained. Any-
one acquainted with the personnel of those useful
departments will understand at once the ignorance
of human nature displayed by the chevaliers d'
Industrie in expecting to “ get at ” them. No : the
only hope for the " magsmen,” if they do not elect
to sit idly by and see a thriving industry ruined is
to pjaee their affairs in the hands of a Sydney
solicitor, and he will pull them through. We have
on our list the names of half-a-dozen practitioners
whom we can confidently recommend to any
spieler who has sufficient pride in his profes-
sion to induce him to make a stand. Enclose
stamped directed envelope.
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Romance.
IN RONDELETS
I.
A pig in a poke—
We thought her an heiress.
You bet it’s no joke I
We’re now in the yoke.
She’s stone-blessed broke;
And half that our share is.
A pig in a poke—
We thought her an heiress.
ii.
A dog and a cat—
The crockery broken.
She is full as a vat,
And she’s smashed our best hat;
But we’ve laid her out flat,
And her coffin's bespoken.
A dog and a cat—
The crockery broken 1
in.
A tin immortelle—
In death we won’t cheat her I
A funeral knell,
A pine-batten shell;
And she’s gone off to . Well,
Where we don’t want to meet her.
A tin immortelle—
In death we won’t cheat her 1
Passion and Pie.
There was a young man who was going to marry
a girl in Balmain
Of a very affectionate nature, although her appear-
ance was plain.
He would take her out twice In the week, on the
tram, to the shore of the sea,
And fill her with pickles and prawns—or what
fruits were in season—would he.
And she loved him; and, day after day, love grew
in her beautiful eyes;
So, to show him her love, she determined to make
him a little surprise.
One evening, when lights were like shadows, and
shadows like lights in the west,
And the dusk brooded over the earth like a dove
brooding over its nest,
She lit up the lamp, spread the table, and stole to
his side loving-wise,
And, with a smile sweeter than honey, uncovered
her little surprise.
No more on the seaside at Bondi—no more on the
Botany lawns
Are that couple seen talking of lilies, and eating
of pickles and prawns.
Would you know why? Then listen! The little
surprise that she set by his side
Was a pie that she made by herself ,* and he ate it,
and killed her, and died.
A Parting.
He stood in silence on the wharf;
His friends were standing by him.
His sweetheart, with her deep blue eye.
Did sorrowfully eye him.
“ The ocean deeps are dark,” he said
At last, in accents gloomy;
“ The sea may suck me down to death—
The cruel waves entomb me.
“ But I must go, though winds may blow,
With lightning and with thunder;
Yet I’ll be true to thee, sweetheart,
Though we are far asunder.”
His friends, in silence, wrung his hand;
His sweetheart clung around him.
You’d think, ere he were drowned at sea,
.'-.he would in tears have drowned him.
The steamer starts, and takes him far
From all their fond endearment.
What was his fate? Well we have heard
That he got safe to Pyrmont!
WOMAN’S PANACEA.
PR OFESSOR PAGININI (who has dropped in to practice duets with Miś Wacklespoon):
"Alas! Mees, it is meeserable; I have leave my bow at home !”
M ISS WACKLESPOON: "How nasty, bu t could you do anything with a hairpin? do anything with a hair-pin? I can


READ IT ALL.
It may Save your Life.
hop bitters
ABB
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buchn, Mandrake, and Dandelion.
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and in addition contain all the best
‘and most effective curative properties
‘ of all other bitters, being the greatest
‘ Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
‘ and life and health restoring agent on
‘earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Aged
and Infirm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
‘ Men, Labourers, Ladles, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
‘irregularities of tha Blood, Stomach
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
‘ Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are invaluable, being
‘ highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
‘ without intoxicating.”
“No matter what your feelings «r
‘ symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
‘ wait until you are sick, but if you only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun-
‘ dreds have been saved by so doing, at
‘ a trifling cost,”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do mot suffer yourself or let your
friends suffer, but use and urge them to
use Hop Bitters.”
“ Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
‘drugged, drunken nostrum, but the
purest and best Medicine ever made,
and no person or family should be
without it.”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO.,
Melbourne, Australia, Rochester, N. Y.,U. S
A., Toronto, London, Antwerp, Paris.
GRAHAM
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment,
643, late 531, George-street, Sydney.
Gentlemen, —I respectfully beg leave to bring
under your notice the superior style and fit of our
Trousers, which are out on the same unerring
principles as those which have made the name of
Hill, Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion in the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either in sitting, riding
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor braces
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain their
position in every attitude of the body.
They are designed to fit the corpulent as well
the slight figure, and are engaged to give to all the
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial will suffice to establish their claim
on your patronage.
I am, Sir,
Tourobedient Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM.
MALT BITTERS
the great cure for indigestion,
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT, WEAK-
NESS, Sc c.
PRICE..
20. «d.
Prepared by A. G. KEBBLEWHITB, Chemist, Ac.
43 ERSKINB STREET.
Sold by W. H. SOUL, and all Chemists.
“ On the strict Q.T.” is now interpreted as
on the strict Quong Tart.”
On Bowen Downs and Mount Cornish
(N.Q.), two contiguous stations belonging to one
company, and comprising 4000 square miles of
country, there are at present 300,000 sheep, 80,000
cattle, and 3000 horses.
She was sarcastic and superfine. And she
Played in comedy. “Do you know,” she said to
us, with a little sneer that revealed the gold-
mountings of her front molars, “ I never read The
Bulletin. I use it for curl-papers.” “Then, dear
girl,” we answered, toying with our silken mous-
tache, “ you have more ideas outside of your head
than inside.”
There is a paper in Victoria called the
“Mount Wycheproof Ensign, and Karyrie, Marl-
bed, Carapugna, Cooroopajerrup, Wirmbirchip,
Whirily, Towma, Jil Jil, Nullawill, Narraport,
Thalia, Corack, Teddywaddy, Bungeeluke, Towa-
ninnie, Tittybong, Ninyeunook, Glenloth, Port
Cameron, Kalpienung, Quambatook, Jeruk, Bud-
gerum, Shinglehut, and East Wimmera Advocate”!
During the last six months, the Day Dawn
claim, Charters Towers, has from 4075 tons of
stone crushed 9290 oz. gold, value £31,605 19s. Id.—
of which £16,800 has been divided among the
shareholders, and £4BOO spent in new crushing ap-
? fiances. The total profit for the half-year was
bus £21,730. Since 1878 this mine has yielded
75,130 oz. gold for £252,436. Prospects are simply
magnificent.
A passenger from ’Frisco to Sydney by
a recent mail steamer was “run in ” at Auckland
througn yielding too freely to the social joys of
that city. At nightfall be was bailed out, and, by
dint of hard driving, he was enabled to reach the
end of the wharf in time to see the City of New
York swing in the stream. Calling for a rope, one
w as thrown to him from the ship; and, fastening it
aiound his waist, he jumped into the sea, and was
haul d on board amid the cheers of the spectators
on the wharf.
There are twenty-one claimants for the
rewa d of a £lOOO, offered by the Commercial
Bank of Melbourne, for the conviction of the
“ bullion ” thief. It is pretty safe to predict that
the n.ree gentlemen who comprise “the board”
appointed to consider the claims will be held in
supreme contempt by the “ claimants ” directly
their decision is given; while, among the illus-
trious twenty-one, there will shortly be aroused
just 420 deadly hatreds, Anyone with a taste for
figures will perceive that our calculation is cor-
rect.
Attempts to express ideas in language in
which we are not accustomed to think often give
rise to ludicrous mistakes. One of these oddities
appeared in a circular lately addressed to the
Chamber of Commerce, Dunedin (N.Z.), by a firm
of German agents, who enumerate most elaborately
the multitude of small wares they are competent
to purchase. Not content, however, with a purely
mercantile agency, they venture into the world of
art, and inform the Chamber that “ all orders for
lists and typographical work are executed;” and
then, directing attention to educational matters,
they state: “We are in relation superior with dis-
tinguished pedagogues, and can recommend the
br;st schools and families for young foreign pupils
according to studies proposed for genteel execu-
tion.” Genteel execution I
Advertisements from a N.Y. Sunday
paper:—“A y..ung lady, 21 years of age, with a
blot on her character, and a dot of 8000 dollars,
wishes to get married; the marriage must be cele-
brated without delay.” “A lady with a blot on
her character and a large dot, will marry an
honourable gentleman, even if he has no fortune.”
Truly such candour is inexpressibly charming
The hair of a Norman girl is exhibited in a Parisian
hairdresser’s. It is seven feet long, and of an ex-
quisite golden colour— “ Darling, kiss my eyelids
down,” is the latest moonshine song; and he kisses
them down, and up, and crosswise, and all round,
and then settles on her mouth, as a steady thing...
At a fireman’s dinner: “The ladies—their eyes
kindle the only flame against which there is no
insurance.
We haven’t heard of Mr. Ernest Morrison
for a long white. If we don’t hear something soon,
people will begin to take quite a melancholy
interest in the fate of this young man. Ernest is
lying perdu, perhaps, for the present; and while he
continues to do so, he’ll not be lying in any other
way. Washington Irving once said that a man
could acquire a reputation for wisdom in either of
two ways: by talking a great deal and thinking
very little, or by shutting his mouth and not
thinking at all. When Ernest again writes to Boss
Syme from New Guinea, he must, if he wishes us
to feel interested, date his letter from the interior
of a cannibal’s oven, or inform us that these are
his dying words, as he’s just going Into the pot.
Unless he’s prepared to do this, he had better go
and plant for two years in a missionary camp, and
become regarded as the New Guinea Leichhardt.
For two years after his return Ernest will probably
be engaged in taking libel actions against the Far
Northern papers. [ latest advices siy that Ernest
has been sneared in two places, but not danger-
ously, and that he will shortly arrive at Cooktown]'
For us Hayter’s vital statistics of Victoria
are as full of life and romance as “ Monte Christo”
was in the dim past. The percentage of Catholics
to the entire population has fallen from 21.80 to
21.76, a decrease so microscopical that one
■trouid think it would escape even the Age.
“Of course, since assisted immigration was
stopped, Catholics can only gain in the natural
way.” This is a delicate way of conveying that all
Romans” who formerly came to Victoria were
paupers. But to return to Hayter. The columns
dealing with “religion” and “occupation” beat all
the others for suggestiveness. Atheists, Pantheists,
Materialists, Agnostics, Unitarians, Spiritualists,
and others of loose religious convictions tot up
nearly 8000. Some place their hopes in L.s.d., while
one declares for “ tree-trade.” Of 15 school-
teachers, twelve worked on the goldfields in 1881,
three were in the charitable institutions during
that year, and none were in gaol. With the law-
yers it was different. Of these, six were on the
diggings, three in the hospitals, and nine in quod.
One man gives his calling as a “ scare-crow ”
The Sandhurst City Surveyor is up to his
neck in it again. When the councillors want a
lamp-post straightened or a gutter smelt, he sends
them in a report on the peculiarities of onions,
and the lest way to mash turnips. Councillor
Harkness wanted a little job done at Ironbark—a
bit of channel made to keep the water from start-
ing business as a young lagoon—and as the officer
would not attend to the slating the ratepayers
“ slated” the councillor, and he passed it on to the
officer. The latter wasn’t even asked for bread;
he was merely asked for a few stones, and he sup-
plied a treatise on blue gums, elm trees, and
asphalte. He said the asphalte at Sandhurst was
nota“ circumstance” onthatat Kew. Considering
that Kew is the chief lunatic asylum in Victoria—
the Hanwell, in fact, of Australia—it’s no wonder
the councillors arched their backs and looked
ugly. Councillor Hayes objected very sensibly,
we think, to the words “slating” and “side-wind,”
used by Councillor Delbridge. The latter then
volunteered to withdraw the “sidewind,” but
would not shift the “slating.” There are plenty
of sporting men in Sandhurst whom we highly
respect, and we are prepared to give any of them
whatever odds he likes that when next a paving-
stone has to be removed from Bendigo Creek, or a
goat fired over a fence, the City Surveyor will
bring -his dinner, and hang it on a rail till the job
is through.
A recent lecturer on the “ Human Stomach”
described that organ as a patient and willing
worker, which had to put up with a great deal of
bad treatment. Every sort of abomination was
shoved into it, all of which it was expected to
manufacture into nourishment, and never to get
unfit for work. Requiring a temperature of about
98 degrees for the proper performance of its func-
tions, the tippler treated it to iced champagne at
the freezing point; and the tea-drinkers scalded
It with their favourite beverage at 212 degrees, and
almost boiled it alive. The miss sweetened it with
sweets and sugar, and the old wife poisoned it with
camomile and quinine; the young man emptied
into it enough soda and potash to convert it into
soap—hard or soft, according to the alkali he affects
—in order to convince the world of his manliness;
the young lady dosed it with vinegar to make her
look genteel; the poor man stuffed it with un-
cooked bread, hot from the baker’s oven, and
with over-cooked beef, boiled several years
ago ; the rich man crammed it with oysters,
mites, and jumpers all alive and kicking, and
game so far gone with putrefaction that a pig
would turn up Its nose at it—and if the poor
stomach rebelled under this vile treatment,
every diabolical mixture invented or discovered
from the creation till now was poured into it, and
everything nauseous and disgusting that could be
heard or thought of was swallowed with the insane
idea of putting it all right. The drunkard ignored
the possession of a stomach altogether; he seemed
conscious only of a “ thrapple a sort of bottom-
less pit for throwing whisky into, possibly consi-
dering a bottomless pit a fit receptacle lor liquid
blazes. The lecturer, by means of illustrations
thrown on a screen by lime-light, went on to show
that the drunkard had a stomach, and a very ugly
one to look at. The various stages of the drunk-
ard’s career were here delineated—from a view of
the moderate drinker with enlarged and distended
bloodvessels, to that of the habitual drunkard, hide-
ously diseased, crowded with ulcers and covered
blue spots like the blossoms on a toper's nose.
A “ work” on Buffaloism has been issued
from the press; and the author is, of course, that
gentleman who is pleasantly, but mysteriously,
known to a section of the press—particularly in
Melbourne—as the “ redoubtable Dick Thatcher.”
All Mr. T. saj-s about Buffaloism is lovely bosh.
We know nearly as much about it as Dick, and
were a full-blown Buffalo until, by a diligent
attendance at the “ Mother” and otherlodges (it was
in Montreal), we had qualified ourselves for a
padded cell. Our initiation ceremony was almost
exactly a counterpart of that which Mr. Sam
Tappertit invented lor the “ Prentice Knights,”
but, if anything, the Buffalo bosh is funnier. We
were led up to the door by a “ brother,” blind-
folded, and then after some talk were taken inside
by a lunatic they call the “City Tyler” This
worthy' produced a sword, a torch, the jawbone of
an ass (probably the remnant of a deceased
brother), and another miscreant—the “Primo,”
this time— oaded us with fetters. All this over,
we were "made,” and then the cream of the joke
began. Wedidn’t know anything much about the
rules, so were fined continually, much to the joy
of the landlord and of the brothers (who, being
three-fourtl s publicans themselves, were all in the
joke!). For instance, if you call a brother by his
proper appellation, you are fined; if you call
tobacco other than “the weed,” you are fined; If
you ask for a pint of beer instead of “gatta,”
you are fined; and all the fires are put
in little tin platters round the table, and
subsequently made into a pool and spent m drink
for the benefit of the landlord. Then, when lodge
is over, you go down stairs to “ liquor up” once or
many r times more. That’s Buffaloism—or all we
remember of it. The author of the brochure says
that the Grand Mastership of the Buffaloes of Vic-
t iria has been conferred upon Sir William Clarke.
Happy Sir William! Let them but confer that of
N.S * on us, and a cruel, lingering death would
ba in store for the man who brought the regalia.'
Uur experience is that it is quite easy enough to
§ret drunk quickly and often without being a Buf-
falo. But should a man earnestly wish to attain
intoxication in less time and more frequently than
he has been accustomed to do, we feelingly recom-
mend him to join the Royal Antediluvian Order—
that is to say, if it’s anything like the Roval Ante-
diluvian Order as we knew it in other climes. In
our opinion, by the way, no lodge-meeting should
be held m a public-house.
VANITY FAIR.
Felix, the great French dressmaker, made
seventy dresses for the trousseau of Miss Murphy,
who married Sir Charles Wolseley. The bridal
dress was net over white satin, draped with silver
bullion, and embroidered with raised silver flowers;
train, 3 yards long. Bill about the same length
The fashion: “ Will you wear a rose in your hair,
dear?” “ No, not to-night. I think I shall wear a
tomato, set in a cluster of those lovely new pota-
toes.”— Spiers and Pond’s laundry is a gigantic
place, where everything is a wonder. Not more
than a small bucket of water is used for a dozen
shirts, which are turned out snow-white. The
drying is done by whirling the clothes round in
hot air, on a wire cylinder. A large “washing”
can be taken at noon, and returned home before
night A rich New Zealander, who lately died,
left to two nieces £500 each, on the extraordi-
nary condition that, on receiving it, at 35 years
old—; but the rest is hardly publishable
Hand-shaking originated in enemies seizing each
other by the weapon hand, while they treated for
truce, to prevent treachery. Hat-lifting has fol-
lowed from the warrior’s habit of taking off his
helmet to show his confidence that he apprehended
no danger. Woman’s curtsey shows how she used
to bend low, when asking a boon from a mailed
warrior, or to acknowledge her inferiority
A man called a girl his “ own precious darling
little honeydew or a rosebud,” (and three months
later he paid £200 in a breach of promise suit
rather than marry his rosebud Tne bustle of
the Spring work is no w been In the dressmakers’
shops. But we don’t see the spring-work of the
bustle— The Prince of Wales weighs 16st They
were newly married, and stealing softly to his side
she whispered “ I'm beginning to realize we’re only
one now, Adolphus. And Adolphus responded
I’m beginning to think we’re half a dozen now,”
for he had just paid her first bill The Duke of
Devonshire’s garden is one hundred and twenty-
two acres, and keeps sixty gardeners employed...
English ladies are adopting very masculine styles;
many wear the stick-up masher collar over a white
shirt-front. Others wear white kid waistcoats
with tiny gold buttons — Nothing makes a girl so
mad after she has tumbled down as to remember
that her stockings didn’t match her dress Lady
smokers are by no means uncommon, though no
girl can do it, unless secretly, without being at
once stamped as “fast.” But many girls have
tried a cigarette in company with a few other girls
in their own rooms “for fun,” and if kept up they
find the habit soon gets hold on them just
the same as it does on messenger boys A
physician say s he has made many cures of diph-
theria by administering a spoonful of brewer’s
yeast at an early stage of the malady, which dis-
solves the fungus....The Empress of Austria
wears, on state occasions, a train 30 feet long. The
Crown Princess of Denmark is six feet two in her
stockings. E ven out of them, we don’t know that
she is materially shortened... When a very pru-
rient case was before Justice Maule, a young girl
giving evidence became so embarrassed as to be
inaudible. “Speak out, please,” said His Honor.
‘It’s very painful to you, I know; but all these
fashionable ladies have come on purpose to hear
it.” The bench was thronged with elegantly-
dressi d women at the time..
The health of the “ Grand Old Man ” is
anything but good. The wonder is that he’s alive
at all; it just shows that chopping down trees must
be a splendid nerve tonic. A few weeks sinee, as
you’ve heard, Mr. Gladstone—at Copenhagen— en-
tertained a crowd of Royalties at luncheon, on
board the Pembroke Castle. The Czar was among
them, and (although it has been kept out of the
newspapers) the Nihilists were well to the fore, as
usual. The precautions that the G.O.M. found it
necessary to take tor the safety of “ Russia ’’—and
the whole party, for the matter of that—were a
terrible anxiety to him. and his health has broken
down under the ordeal. Tennyson accompanied
Mr. Gladstone on his cruise, and “ threw off ” the
following verses after breakfast :—
The “Grand Old Man,” in anxious fear,
His grand old eye cast round
In search ol any cannons near;
And, much dismayed, he found
That, right in front of ‘‘Russia’s” chair—
Ere luncheon was begun—
Was placed (none knew how came it there)
An eighty-one ton gun.
The gun removed—in shortest space—
He felt his spirits droop
To find that they’d contrived to place
Torpedoes in the soup.
Extracting these, and making haste
To try another dish,
He found a very nasty taste
Of poison in the fish.
And so with every course, till quite
Too dreadful grew his state,
To find theu'd placed some dynamite
In every glass and plate.
He kept his courage up until
The Czar had gone away;
And then the G.O M. fell ill,
(Quite natural, too, I say).
We rather suspect that the rev. young
gentleman who sub-edits the Herald has either
just been married, or has contracted an attack of
the jumbles, since some of the telegrams which
have recently appeared in that journal betray an
eccentricity bordering upon the uproarious. We
are told “ La (sic) Gaulois states to-day that the
Emperor William telegraphed to King Alfonso
that he knew that it was himself, not Alfonso, at
whom the hostile demonstrations were made;”
and further, that “A farewell banquet was given
at Langham’s Hotel to-day by a number of Vic-
torian colonists to the Hon. James MacBain,” etc.
Well, as a stern matter of fact, there is no paper in
the world called “La Gaulois,” and there is cer-
tainly no London caravanserai which rejoices in
the name of “Langham’s Hotel.” There is, in
truth a popular Parisian journal called Le Gau-
lois, and there is also, at the top of Regent-street,
in London, a vast pile called The Langham
Hotel. Probably either of these is meant—or
both. To any person even superficially conver-
sant with the elementary principles of French
grammar, it would become at once apparent that
“La Gaulois” was utterly impossible; and anybody
who had read anything over and above the Herald
and the Y.M.C.A. Monthly Notes would have
known that there are connected with the London
Langham Hotel associations of almost an historical
nature. We do not, however, blame the bosses
of our contemporary. They do their little best,
do doubt; and when it is considered that the
missionary question occupies, doubtless, such a
large amount of their thought-power, and that
the amelioration of their future lot points more
towards the study of the Suvan dialect than the
acquisition of the elements of the Gallic tongue, it
will be seen that our young friends can claim at
our hands, if not admiration, at least a spirit of
forgiveness which partakes equally of the
gentle and the generous. But the ques-
tion now arises whether (though the abstrac-
tion of religion is a beautiful thing to con-
template) it would not be more conducive
to the education, and less to the confusion
of the masses, to employ, as “ fllterer” on a daily
paper even a sinner, provided he were ordinarily
conversant with the ethics of civilization, and had
broken—let us say the back of his Ahn's First
French course. It should be remembered in
Hunter-street that a good deal has been done for
Borrioboola Gha, and the influence of many a good
young Herald man is now being seriously felt in
Erromanga. Surely, then, the immediate con-
stituents of that paper are now entitled to some
little consideration ; and though they do not desire,
at present, the head of anyone on a charger, they
at least expect their morning sausage to be accom-
panied by two-pennyworth, if not of “good inter-
pretation,” at least of possibly soluble matter. If
a man arrived in London and said he was going to
subscribe to La Gaulois, and stop at “Lang-
ham’s Hotel,” he would in all probability meet the
fate of the last of Alfred’s bards, who came
i round to sell us a “ Rondo by Moonlight.”
The New Programme.
Ah, now we have come t > that epoch in history
Wi.e e Love can be true without shyness oi
mystery—
w *jere Love can be hot, here Love can be bold,
vvhe.e Love can be candid and frank anc
serene.
And not be the sensitive thing it has been
In he maidenly modesty meetings of old.
Ah, now we have come to that epoch In history.
Where blushes are d. ad, , nd pooh-poohed is all
mystery.
We k ow what we’re doing, and know what
we 11 do,
And we’ll go on and do it, and who will may
talk; '
laugh at their talk, and caressingly
For they did it themselves, and are doing it,
too!
Ah, now we have come to that epoch in history
Wnere the clothes are stripped off of this last
bogus mystery,
And the maid lifts her lace to her pa, and says
Dad,
Look alive, bring a man round, I want one, I
do!
And the following story was therefore quite
true,
For out of this epoch its facts I have had.
She loved him, she did; she loved him, she did;
And her mother came in and said, “ Sally, give
over!”
But Sally struck out, and the old woman slid
Down the steps, while her daughter rubbed chins
with her lover.
' h, this is our epoch of history
In which Love has been stripped of its mystery!
And the father came in, and said, “ Sally, beware!
I know that young man, and his life is not
lucky.”
But the young man made knuckles, and tumbled
him there;
And then, rubbing gently to Sally, said “Ducky!”
Ho I this is the epoch of history
lu which Love has been stripped of its mystery I
And Sally and Joey—for that was his name—
Then went to the house where his parents re-
sided;
He loved her, he loved her, exactly the same
As she loved him, she loved him, when last time
they sighed it.
Ah, this is the epoch in history
lu which Love has been stripped of its mystery I
And his mother came in while Joe kissed and
caressed.
And said “ Joey, for shame! Send away that vile
hussy! ”
But Joe straightened out, and gave one of his
best;
And the old woman yelled, on her back, “ Lauk-
a-mussy!”
Ho! this is the epoch of history
In which Love has been stripped of its mystery!
And his father came in, and said, “ Come, now, my
lad;
When I was like you I had some sort of blushes.”
But the old man was lifted by both ears, with
“Dad,
Where a bobby can’t enter, a fool, like you,
rushes!”
Ho! this is the epoch of history
When Love has been stripped of its mystery!
And Sally and Joe found the parson, and knelt;
Aud the parson said, “ Oh, now, my children,
keep steady!”
But Joe said, “ Come, fire off ! ” and Sally said,
“ Melt
Out the lingo, and hitch us! Meself and Joe’s
ready I ”
Ho! this is an epoch of history
Where Love has been stripped of its mystery I
Soare we not proud of our epoch in history
Where Love can be true, without shyness or mys-
tery?
Where Love can be hot, where Love can be
bold;
Where Love can be candid, and frank, and
serene;
And not be the sensitive thing it has been
In the maidenly modesty meetings of old?


THE FOLLOWING STALLIONS will Stand
the ensuing’ Season at RICHMOND, where
llret-class Paddocks will be provided for Mares,
with every care and attention, but without re-
sponsibility :
Subscription Full.
Terms, 30 Guineas per Mare
MARIBYRNONG
GRAND FLANEUR
RAPID BAY ..
MOORTHORPE
JULIAN AVENAL
MONMOUTH ..
BEAUCLERC .
CHILDE HAROLD
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
A. f £ w hal ’-bred Mares will be taken to Beauclerc
at half-price.
Each Horse will be limited to 15 of the public
mares.
Ail Mares must be paid for and removed bv
January 1,1864.
ANDREW TOWN, Richmond.
C
YDE S D
L E 8 .
r'r^ t f oJl °n i oS, I . r ?^ rted ?’ ,re Clydesdale STAL-
LIONS will STAND at Richmond the coming
Season, when flrst-class Paddocks will be provided
for Mares, with every care and attention, but
without responsibility
MUIR LAD,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
DAYIE,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
GALLANT SCOTCHMAN,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
Comment on these Horses is unnecessary. They
have proved themselves on all the principal Show
Grounds of the Colony, and their Stock have done
the same their progeny at six months old selling
“ from 50 guineas to 100 guineas each.
All Mares must be paid for and removed by
January 1,1884. *
ANDREW TOWN, Richmond.
TO STAND THIS SEASON at MULGRAYE,
stailio'n 0411 ' the imported ooaaMng
PERFECTION,
the thoroughbred horse,
TESTATOR,
and the Exmoor pony,
UNCLE TOM.
a brown horse, 5 years old, stands
17.1 bands high, perfect in symmetry, with grand
action. Bis pedigree is as follows :—Sire Coker’s
Perfection, g s Warthe’s Perfection, ggs Jackson’s
Perfection, gggs Catton, ggggs Bay Becking-
ham, g g g g g s Grand Conqueror, g g g g g g s
Henderson ■ King George. Dam by Old Pheno-
menon (which horse was sold for 800 guineas), g d
by Wink s Champion. Two half-brothers to Per-
fection were sold for 500 and 800 guineas respec-
txvely, when 5 and 3 years old. PERFECTION
took 16 first prizes, and was never beaten in a show
ring.
TESTATOR, by the Tester (imp.) out of Rosedale
(imp.), the dam of Kingsdale, winner of the
Hawkesbury Guineas, Ac., Ac.
a.H NCL I ! U winn «r of first prize at late
Sydney Exhibition, by Sir Thomas (imp.), out of
Pretty Star (imp.) He stands 1 2 hands high, has
immense strength, beautiful symmetry, and per-
fect action. Pretty Star’s dam (Starlight) was
racing pony in England, having won
over £2OOO, including a match for £606, and was
never beaten.
Terms—
PERFECTION :
Mares left in paddock.. .. 8 guineas each.
Mares taken to horse .. 6
TESTATOR .. 4
uncle tom .. |
Good paddocks provided, and every care taken,
without responsibility. As only a limited number
01 mares will be taken, early application is neces-
sary.
GEORGE S. YEO,
Important Notice to every
Country Resident.
U
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS,
235 & 237 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Are making great efforts to increase their large
country trade. A Special Department for the
exclusive benefit of those who reside away from
Sydney is now established.
The exorbitant prices country tailors charge are
almost prohibitive to many. We are changing al
TRY US I TRY US !
If you wish to get a real good tallor’s-made gar-
ment, write for our easy manual of self-measure-
ment, sent post free to all parts of the colony,
with patterns, styles, and tape.
Sydney Prices, Metropolitan Pit
and Workmanship.
Suits, to Measure 3 o
Trousers, to Measure O 16 G
ALL WOOL, AND SHRUNK.
H.L. Summerfield & Co.
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS.
ONLY SYDNEY ADDRESS-
-235 and 237 Pitt-street.
T
10 STAND THIS SEASON, at Duckenfleld,
near Morpeth.—The Thoroughbred Stallion
HENCHMAN
(late Friday), full brother to Robinson Crusoe, the
sire of Navigator, by Angler, out of Chrysolite,
will serve ten approved mares, besides his owner’s,
at Thirty Guineas per mare.
Also,
CROWN PRINCE,
by Kelp’e, out of Queen’s Head, by Yattendon,
out of Gazelle, will serve ten approved mares,
besides his owner’s,
at Ten Guineas per mare.
Splendid paddocks, and every care taken of
mares sent to the above horses, but no responsi-
bility incurred. H
All mares must he paid for before removal.
Season ends on Ist January, 1884. Mares not re-
moved on that d.ate will be charged ten shillings
per week each up to date of removal.
JOHN BALES.
Duckenfleld, September 18th, 1883.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. O/tfla/trcLred.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH
and GENERAL
and SCOTCH WHISKIES
MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.'S DUBLIN WHISKEY*
IS UNSURPASSED.
It Is bottled in bond for Ex, rt at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, t. ref ore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ hlskey Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 Park Street,
IMPORTERS
Of
PIANOS,
by every maker
of renown, from
£26 and up-
wards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE
COFFEE PALACE,
231 GEORGE STREET NORTH.
JOHN JOHNSON, Proprietor.
I_l AVING opened the above, the Proprietor has
supplied a want long felt in Sydney. The
first floor contains spacious Ladies and Gentle-
men’s Dining and Drawing Rooms, also Single and
Double Bedrooms, replete with every comfort.
A TRIAL IS RESPECTFULLY SOLICITED.
THE AUSTRALIAN
Diamond Drill Company.
CONTRACTS will be undertaken by the above
Company to bore any sized holes, vertical or
horizontal, up to
3 INCHES, OR LARGER IF REQUIRED,
to any depth, at a reduction of 25 PER CENT.
BELOW ANY PREVIOUS CHARGE.
The Company, in all cases, will find their own
fuel and water for drilling purposes, and will make
no charge for loss of diamonds or wear and tear on
plant, and will also provide workmen engineers, &o.
The new duplex barrel, introduced into the
colony by Mr. J. Coghlan, will be used free of
charge to persons searching for minerals.
Mr. Coglan has every confidence, from his prac-
tical knowledge of the Diamond Drill, that he will
be able to give general satisfaction, as well as quick
despatch to all orders addressed to the
Temporary Offices, 311 George-street.
JOHN COGHLAN,
General Manager, pro. tern.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
y.r. Warranted firstqu a I i ty
v Charges stri c tly moderate
MARSHALL BROTHERS
Surgeon dentists iqbiviarketst e.
All dental operations performed with skill
Teeth stopped, and extracted painlessly.
CRESWELL’S CHOICE SEEDS.
of £l, the following collection of
NEW GARDEN SEEDS will be forwarded
Wafes T— Btum ° f P ° St any part of New South
loz. Beet (blood red), loz. Borecole or German
Greens, loz. Brocoli, 3oz. Cabbage (early and
late), 2oz. Carrot (2 varieties), loz. Celery, loz.
Cauliflower, loz. Cress (curled), loz. Mustard
(fine white), loz. Lettuce, loz. Parsnip, loz.
Parsley (extra curled), 2oz. Onions (2 varie-
ties), 4oz. Turnip (3 varieties), loz. Savoy,
loz. Spinach, 3oz. Radish (long: and turnip), 2
packets Melons (water and rock), I packet
Cucumber, 1 packet Pumpkin, 1 packet
Tomato, 1 packet Vegetable Marrow.
One half of above collection, 10s, post free. 12
packets of choice assorted Flower Seeds, suitable
for present sowing, will be presented with each £1
post collection of Garden Seeds. Assortments of
Seeds, containing Peas and Beans, for transit by
coach, rail, or steamer, for small or large gardens,
from 10s, £l, £2, and £3 3s each. Payments made
by money order or, stamps.
C. F. CRESWELL, Seed and Plant Merchant,
471 George-street, Sydney.
Boyd's Beard Flixir Hid thin, and
| unit do it oncuher bald ?u, d or
bare fare, forces henry Mcms
taahe in fmm2 to 4 toeens and never
* fails, 2young n/en alreudy 1 • •
wear full beards, having used Ito Copyrighted.
3 pkti. No injury, easily applied, err tarn in effect. Packets Is. 6d.
each, 3 for 3s. Qd.,post paid, sent under cover, free from observation .
* rank Douglas, Sole Agent, Box 730, G.F.0., Sydney ,N.S. W •
Copyrighted ,
rs
TRICYCLES.
JUST ARRIVED, a large shipment of the
celebrated
Excelsior Tricycles,
For Ladles or Gentlemen.
Send for lists and TERMS of Payment.
Repairs executed by experienced Coventry
bicycle makers.
BAYUSS, THOMAS & CO., 68 King Street
Sale I
N°™S<^of Q S T rC“nS ■SS“ r “ t ’ h * Tine boM *>"" LUter H.nry, In conM-
COMPELLED TO SELL OUR LARGE STOCK OF OVER
'2OO PIANOS AND ORGANS
before the end of this month.
tatrumen.,, which, bF
lower rates than our competitors ask for inferior goodly P butwhlch w « must turn over even at
eminent authorftieB°who have seen our'iMtrum^n^ 11 that*Sev a^rmFryna' th P Be of many
for VALUE MAGNIFICENCEof nNISHTmd NEQUALLED in AUSTRALIA
pressed to buy. W OUR KANOS G ANS* SPEAK for TH^MS^LVES^^ 1 ' 7 invite<L No one 18
U e to ™* nine(Ui ' wiU be sold during the month at liberal discounts.
ays f, ar tbe finest instrument of the kind I have ever seen ”
J. Churchill Susr,thl vf“ eu ? d ? notice -”
excellence of your Smith American Organs? inuae iTthep‘n>.i£ b^ pp £ $P to the
y ’ but
’° R THE BABIEST TERMS. Illustrated lists on application to
CRAMPTON & BRUCE, 281 George Street,
OPPOSITE HUNTER STREET. ° 5
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OYER PALING’S),
specially engaged by
N.8.-BOTD (OVER PALING’S) haano connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
L. E. HENDERSON, Manager.
Or’EZJbJltriD DISPLAT.
THE PEOPLE’S CLOTHIER,
BUl£s E TR N BOYS’and YOUTH V
WHITE and REGATTA SHIRKS, TIBS wd HOSIERY S J? F . T ? ELT HATS
plain figures, and at VERY LOW PRICES. ’ * na HUHIifiRT. Every article is marked in
m~ Both shops are thorougly chock full. Come early and inspect the Stock in both shn™
I keep the LARGEST STOCK of WORKING MEN’S CLOTHING in SYDNEY to choose from
Be sure you find the right shops, when requiring CLOTHING OP EVERY DESCRIPTION.
J. J. Ryan, 760 George Street, Haymarket:
And 466 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Markets, near Market Street.
10 Mm
PATEN
STEAM & HYDRAULIC GAUGES,
Engine and Boiler Fittings.
SCHAFFER & BUDENBERG,
of Magdeburg and Manchester,
XTAVE appointed the undersigned as their SOLE AGENTS for the
Australian Colonies. Orders for Steam, Vacuum, and Hydraulic
Gauges, Thaipotaslmeters, and all classes of Engine and Boiler Fittings
are solicited. ’
SCHAFFER and BUDENBERG carried off the
CHIEF AWARDS and MEDALS at the SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and
ADELAIDE INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITIONS.
«CO., Sole Agents, SS7 togs Street,
OPPOSITE HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A CUP OP GOOD COFFEE
IS WHAT YOU WANT, BUT SELDOM GET.
THE N -A-8K YOUR GROCER OB STOREKEEPER FOR
A.G. Churchwooa’s Crown B
BLENDED PEOM THE FINEST MOCHA. JAMAICA. CEYLON BEHUIBS,
Martian. Keeslian.,
STAR & GARTER HOTEL
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Ab bo expense has been spared in the erection of the Hotel n»mi.» rr
«•*«" “iothta. tb. M COU “ tr ’'


Even Lavater—such a “past-master” in
discovering men’s motives-would be puzzled to
account for what is running in the heads of those
who endeavour to wreck trains. They never stay
to see the result, and they never succeed. They
must mean to succeed, or they wouldn’t take the
trouble and risk of placing the obstructions there.
Towards midnight, a week ago, Frederick Williams,
a fireman, was steering for home along the railway
track near Gouiburn, when he stumbled over
something laid across the line. It was a rail of
13 cwt M and th© Goulburn Herald, with Quick
perception says : “It is thought that more than
one person must have been concerned in placing it
on the line,” As Professor Miller was in Melbourne
at the time, the Herald is probably right Vv e
have long ago given up the idea of solving the
conundrum as to the persons’ motives who do
these things. But we would suggest tnat, as capital
punishment still finds a place in criminal juris-
prudence, the privilege of getting their vertebrae
disarranged should be extended to those facetious
people who appear so anxious to know how an
express tram, full of passengers, would behave in
passing over a 13-cwt. T rail.
The libretto of a late American opera tells
us that one of the Colorado “ cowboys” is
“The ‘boss’ exterminator,
He’s the man that put the sleeper on the rail.”
They’ve not yet got as far as this in Queensland,
but, when it comes to stuffing ballot-boxes at an
election, or “ nobbling ” scrutineers, the Y ankees
are not in it. During a recent election, a certain
place in the Bogaloo district contributed 400
Ministerial votes out of a population of 301 This
was done before the arrival of the Opposition
scrutineer. Even his advent didn’t clear matters
up much, as he was made “ blind drunk ” on the
road. The returning-officer was a shanty-keeper,
and a Ministerialist of a most pronounced type,
who appears to have thoroughly mastered his
duties. For the “ liquor ” dodge, so successful at
the Lagoons, the Ministerialists of Neardie seem to
have substituted “starvation” with gratifying
success. W. Barriskill, scrutineers for Bailey and
Mellor's committee, had to obtain sustenance there
by the time-honoured method of sucking his
thumbs. In fact, he was “ Boycotted,” and could
get no food in the place. Even under these dis-
tressing circumstances he managed to fish out one
Paddy was about to start a store up North,
and this is how he sought to secure the patronage
of his compatriots “ Sure, now, I’ll let yez have
the fay an’ sugar an' butter an’ bacon and the
praste out every Sunday to say mass—all at the
Rockhampton prices, mind yez.”
From Bingera, N.S.W., come several
enthralling pieces of information. Firstly, that
the local Druids have at a concert sung an opening
chorus, “Happy are we to-night, boys,” in their
gowns and beards ; secondly, that the aforesaid
Druids “ have attended a funeral in their collars;”
and thirdly that “ the diamond mines are now the
centre of attraction. Falk and Cos. have secured
largo areas of diamond land. A good road has been
made to the river, creeks bridged, and cuttings
made to the plant at the river bank, a distance of
3Mj miles.” We’ve never yet heard of the Bingera
Kohinoor, but we remember the Mudgee Regent.
It was a lump of crystallized quartz, and Butters,
of Melbourne, formed a company to buy it. Then
the bubble burst, and peer Butters shortly had the
mortification of seeing hunks of sugar-candy in
the windows of the Collins-street confectioners
labelled “ Butters’ Diamonds.”
The Rev Thomas Morris Hughes (Anglican)
recently sent up by the Birmingham bench for
bigamy, seems to be a regular bad egg. Fora
year or so, up to July last, he was acting as curate
in charge of the parish of Blckenhill, near Birming-
ham, notwithstanding his having been previously
well known to the police, having been convicted
on various occasions of drunken and riotous con-
duct and grave offences, notably July, 1875, when
he was sentenced to five years’ penal servitude for
having, by a false representation, obtained a cer-
tificate for the burial of his step-daughter’s child,
of which he was believed to be the father. Hughes
was liberated from prison before the expiration
of his full sentence in 1879, when he took up his
abode with his wife in Birmingham, reporting
himself to the police from time to time as
required by the rules. In 1881 he obtained employ-
ment as chaplain at some works near Bromsgrove.
He afterwards became curate of Wellesbourne,
where he made the acquaintance of a young
woman, whom he wooed as a single man, and
married. In October, 1882, he relieved the vicar of
Biokenhill in the charge of that parish, where he
appears to have made himself very popular by his
Go on, Wesleyans (as Bob Ingoraoll would
say); thrust the Osbornes out of the church
Throw away your manly hearts; put out your"
eyes. Shower your honours upon hypocrites
Silence every minister who is touched with the
heresy of honest thought. Keep the superstitious
the bigoted, the credal-costive, and the writers of
charges and specifications. Ke3p them—and much
good may they do you! You are quite too prepos-
terously idiotic to excite anger We forgive you
as the sun forgives fly-dirt on a lily. Go it I
“ He was astonished, coming as he did from
Ireland, to find that there were no poor here.”—
Rev. James White.
What, is’t a fact that we’ve no poor ?
Then, sir, will you inform us
Why is it that at every door
By day and night they storm us ?
Subscribe for this, donate for that—
Go where you will, with plate or hat,
Some pious beggar raises
Such tales of woe, we cry out “ Go
To Jericho or—blazes I”
No poor! Why, reverend sir. Just hark—
Is poverty not your trade mark ?
case of personation. There is a great future before
a colony that can produce results like these; and
the action of Lord Derby, in forbidding those
Northern people to carry the torch of civilisation
into New Guinea, must he lamented by all who
have the welfare of the poor Papuans at heart.
John Chinaman once more—this time in a
trick which has never been matched since Autoly-
cus, the prince of thieves, went under. There
lives near Bargowlahmine Mr. Barkins, a farmer,
who owns a “ bit of a trotter.” He also kept a
celestial cook named Ah Man, and thereby hangs a
tale —two tales, in fact, our own and Ah Man’s.
Not long ago Mr. Barkins went away on business
for a day, and no sooner had he turned his back
than the faithful Ah Man rode the trotter into the
township, and sold him for £3O. But that very
night, the childlike Chinese, fearing his master’s
return, and feeling the pangs of conscience kick-
ing in his ribs, walked into Bargowlahmine, stole
the horse from the buyer, and took it back to his
master’s paddock. A week afterwards Barkins
rode into town, and was at once pounced upon for
having stolen his own horse. All hands are now
looking for Jemmy.
eloquence in the pulpit and his sociable manners.
On the return of the vicar, in April last, some un-
pleasant rumours with regard to the curate began
to circulate, when Hughes suddenly disappeared,
and with him the vicar’s cook, with whom he had
been carrying on a guilty Intrigue. Hughes’s
second wife had just given birth to a child, and the
shock to her mind, caused by this sudden revela-
tion of her husband’s perfidy, temporarily shat-
tered her reason.
At a Salvation Army meeting up the line,
the other day, a respectable married woman
became “converted,” and commenced to relate
the history of her past iniquities. Her husband,
who stood amongst the crowd, first opened his
ears, next his mouth, and then started by the first
train for Sydney to initiate divorce proceedings
Since then it was rumoured that another lady was
about to be “saved ” Her husband stood six feet
three in his stockings, which, however, had nothing
to do with his wife’s conversion, and we merely
mention it as being significant alongside of the
fact that as soon as the relation of her “ experi-
ences” got hinted at two Sunday-school teachers
and a local preacher hastily made tracks for the
wilds of New Guinea.
Mr. John Morgan, manager of the French
New Hebrides Company, gave some suggestive
information to “The Vagabond” (Mr. Julian
Thomas), who was sent by the Arods to report
upon the islands in view of annexation. Mr.
Morgan says:—“What we have bought from the
natives we have given a fair consideration for—
quite as much as the missionaries ever gave for
their lands. We have not the slightest wish to
interfere with them, but they appear to keep all
white men but themselves away. You will hear
their story, of course. You see what their sup-
porters say in Exeter Hall.” Can it be that this
desire to keep the unregenerate out of the New
Hebrides was at the bottom of the missionaries
clamour for annexation ? To win souls to God is
the noblest of pursuits; but when It is combined
with obtaining long stretches of upland and littoral
for a few beads, a rusty musket, and a hymn-book,
outsiders are apt to ask unpleasant questions.
Printed and Published by The Bulutw News-
paper Co. (Limited), 84 Rtt-sL, Sydney, N.S.W.
Rip Van Robinson.
After a sleep of twenty years. "I vonder vere I vas!”
